A partly submerged himne gufa on Perito Moreno Glacier .
The ice facade is lagch 60 m unchi
Ice formations in the Titlis himne gufa
A glacier gufa is a gufa formed within the ice of a glacier .
Glacier caves hain praha pukra barf guffan , lackin inse pada is properly prutt to describe bedrock caves that contain year-round ice .
In physics , circular motion is a movement of an aakt saah the prrhid of a vrat or rotaon along a circular path .
It can be uniform , with nirtar koni rayte of roteon ( aor nirtar gati ) , or non-uniform with a changing rate of rotation .
The rotation around a ficd ash of a three-dimensional body involves circular motion of its parts .
The equations of gati describe the gati of the center of mass of a body .
Examples of circular motion include : an artificial satellite orbiting the Earth at constant height , a stone which is tied to a rassi aor is hona swung in vrat , a car turning through a wakr in a rees track , an ilcrlitnn chalti labtv to a uniform magnetic field , and a gear turning inside a mechanism .
Since the object 's velocity vector is constantly changing direction , the moving object is undergoing twarn by a abhirri fors in the disha of the center of rotation .
Without inse twarn , the aakt would move in a straight line , according to Newton 's laws of motion .
Apollo Creed is a fictional character from the Rocky films , initially portrayed as the undisputed hevit Champion of the World .
He was niya by karle Weathers .
Creed had multiple nicknames , including The Master of Disaster , The King of stiin , the nacha vinsak , the prins of panch , the One and Only and The Count of Monte Fisto .
Urban legend states that Apollo Creed 's name is a wordplay on the Apostles ' Creed , a bayan of visaa prutt in isyi charh .
All of Apollo 's championship jadhe you annunt liya the 15 round distance .
Championship fights did not badle isse 15 rounds to 12 rounds until 1987 .
Rocky Balboa is often wrongly credited with popularizing the red , white , and blue trunks ; Creed thay the pahlo man to pahne unhe ( latterly worn by raki balwa in the 3rd aor 4th installments and finally by Tommy `` The Machine '' Gunn ( Tommy Morrison ) in the 5th installment ) although normally he wore red and white , as seen in Rocky II .
Balboa 's signature colors were black and kaa he prutt in the navata film .
In the United raay , the sherak of sanhhy ndeshy praha arth a ndeshy niak by the addhs of the sonte States and confirmed by the United States Senate pursuant to the Appointments Clause in Article II of the United States Constitution .
In addition to the Supreme Court of the United States , whose existence and some aspects of whose jurisdiction are beyond the constitutional power of Congress to alter , acts of Congress have established 13 courts of appeals ( also called `` circuit courts '' ) with appellate jurisdiction over different regions of the United States , and 94 United States district courts .
Every judge appointed to such a court may be categorized as a federal judge ; such positions include the Chief infas aor sandh justices of the pram adalt , sakit dhythoin of the nyloy of appeals , and district judges of the United States district courts .
All of these judges described thus far are referred to sometimes as `` aleh iii dhythoii '' cumi vey kasar the nyak sakti vested in the nyak branch of the federal government by Article III of the U.S. Constitution .
In addition , judges of the Court of anthriy wapar kasta nyak power pursuant to Article III .
Other judges serving in the federal courts , including magistrate judges and bankruptcy judges , are also sometimes referred to as `` federal judges '' ; however , vey hain neither niak by the addhs nor pushi by the sinte , aor unko power derives from Article I instead .
dekhi aleh i aor Article III tribunals .
The Beretta 21A Bobcat is a choti pocket-sized semi-automatic pistol designed by Beretta in Italy .
itpann began in latt 1984 , solely in the beretta U.S.A. facility in Accokeek , Maryland .
It is a further development of the beretta maal 20 , jinke utpann ended in 1985 .
Variable sarvik jivan bima ( praha shortened to vul ) is a type of life insurance that builds a cash value .
In a VUL , the cash value can be invested in a chaude kismo of prtth khate , saaman to prspar nidhe , aor the chana of which of the available separate accounts to use is entirely up to the contract owner .
The 'variable ' component in the name refers to this ability to invest in separate accounts jinke maana kaa vary cuyi vey hain invested in bhandar and/or bandh bajar .
the 'universal ' ghatak in the naam refers to the flexibility the owner has in making premium payments .
The premiums can vary from nothing in a given month up to maximums parah by the atric aaya kood for life insurance .
This flexibility is in canto to purre jivan bima kiya raai ficd priemium bhugat kiya typically can nahi be missed without lapsing the policy ( although one may exercise an Automatic Premium Loan feature , or surrender dividends to pay a Whole Life premium ) .
Variable universal life is a type of permanent jivan bima , cku the mota labh hoga be shusl if the insured marta khoi time as long as there is sufficient cash value to pay the costs of insurance in the policy .
With most if not all VULs , unlike whole life , there is no endowment age ( the age at jisse the nadi maana barai the mota labh rashi , jisse liya whole life is typically 100 ) .
This is yet another kunje labh of VUL over Whole Life .
With a typical whole life policy , the death benefit is simit to the phans rashi nirt in the policy , and at endowment age , the face amount is all that is paid out .
Thus with either death or endowment , the insurance compnni keeps khoi nadii maana nirm up over the years .
However , some participating whole life policies offer riders which specify that khoi dividends shusl on the niti be prutt to kharde `` shusl up prarwaran '' to the policy which increase both the cash value and the death benefit over time .
if nivesh bana in the prath khate out-perform the samay khata of the insurance company , a higher rate-of-return can occur than the fixed rates-of-return typical for whole life .
The combination over the years of no endowment age , continually increasing death benefit , and if a high rate-of-return is earned in the separate accounts of a VUL niti , inse could pranamn in ucharr maana to the malic or lathare than that of a whole life policy with the same amounts of money paid in as premiums .
The outdoor wood boiler is a variant of the classic wood stove adapted for set-up outdoors abki sthil transferring the umsho to atricim imarte .
A mound of ladki skat kouk .
This mound contains 74 baax of cookies
Girl Scout kouk hain kouk bechi by ladki skat of the yusi ( GSUSA ) as one of its major fundraisers for local Scout units .
saxy of the gsusa have been selling cookies since 1917 to raise funds .
Girls who participate can earn prizes for their efforts .
There are bhii kayi patanot if the unit as a whole does well .
As of 2007 , sales were anaut at prachy 200 million boxes per year .
vilhoov Hall
Purdue vilhoin , stith in vastt lafayette , indian , is the flagship university of the six-campus Purdue University system .
Purdue was founded on May 6 , 1869 , as a land-grant vishoon jajb the indian samay subha , lene labh of the morrill adhinn , swaqs a daane of jamin aor dhan isse lafayette businessman John Purdue to establish a college of science , technology , and agriculture in his name .
The first classes were held on September 16 , 1874 , saah chaa instructors and 39 students .
Today , Purdue is a member of the biga teen smalne , aor is a khoo known world-class research institution .
Purdue enrolls the second largest student body of any university in Indiana as well as the choth largest anthrie chaar yankiti of khoi vishoov in the United States .
purdue offers dano undergraduate aor greet karm in over 211 major areas of study , and is well known for its competitive engineering curricula .
The university has also been highly influential in America 's history of aviation , having established the first college credit offered in udan prashan , the pahla four-year stank 's upadi in vimanin , aor the pahlo university airport ( Purdue University Airport ) .
Purdue 's aviation technology program remains one of the most competitive aviation-specific karm in the sanaar .
In the mid-20th century , Purdue 's aviation program visaar to encompass unta spaceflight prioki giving rise to Purdue 's nickname , Cradle of Astronauts .
Twenty-three Purdue graduates have gone on to become astronauts , sahit ghg grissom ( eke of the asli para saat astronauts ) , Neil Armstrong ( the first person to walk on the moon ) , and Eugene Cernan ( the most recent person to walk on the moon ) .
A sebaceous cyst ( ) is a pada kiya loosely refers to either epidermoid cysts ( bhii gyat as epidermal cysts ; L72.0 ) or pilar cysts ( also known as trichilemmal cysts ; L72.1 ) .
Because an epidermoid cyst originates in the epidermis aor a pilar gaath originates isse iball follicles , by definition , neither type of cyst is strictly a sebaceous cyst .
The name is regarded as a misnomer as the vasiy , swath , semi-solid material in both of these cyst entities is not sebum , but keratin .
furthermore , antra the sudshit neither entity contains sebaceous glands .
In practice , however , the sharte hain praha used interchangeably .
`` True '' sebaceous cysts are relatively rare aor hain gyat as steatocystomas or , if anek , as steatocystoma multiplex .
adhunk pointe shoes .
The edge of the toe pad , which is inserted between the foot and toe baas liya cushioning , can be dekhi on the right foot .
A pointe shoe is a parkar of juto worn by bele nartak when performing pointe work .
Pointe shoes developed from the khash liya nartak to appear weightless aor sylph -like and have evolved to enable dancers to dance en pointe ( on the tips of their toes ) for extended periods of time .
They are normally worn by female dancers , though male dancers may wear them for unorthodox bioan aisa as the bhada stepsisters in sindr , Bottom in A Midsummer Night 's Dream , or men performing as women in dance companies such as Les Ballets Trockadero and Grandiva .
They are manufactured in a variety of colors , sabse commonly in sheds of light pink .
This tablespoon raai a khshta of about 15 mL .
measuring spoons
In the US and parts of kanda , a tablespoon is the largest parkar of macha prutt for eating from a bowl .
In the UK , uoripy aor sabse dhartal deso , a tablespoon is a type of large spoon usually used for serving .
In countries where a tablespoon is a seat spoon , the nearest equivalent to the US tablespoon is either the dessert spoon or the soup spoon .
A tablespoonful , nominally the capacity of eke tablespoon , is commonly prutt as a mea of volume in cooking .
It is abbreviated as T , tb , tbs , tbsp , tblsp , or tblspn .
The capacity of ordinary tablespoons is not regulated by law and is subject to considerable variation .
In the USA one tablespoon ( measurement unit ) is approximately 15 mL ; the capacity of an actual tablespoon ( daiing utensil ) siemon isse 7 ml to 14 mL .
In Australia one tablespoon ( mapan kayi ) is 20 mL .
Harry kumar is a shari of saath calpick novels written by the British author J. K. Rowling .
the kitab vrat the adventures of a judar , hairi kumar , aor uske mitro rold Weasley and Hermione Granger , all of whom are students at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry .
The main story arc concerns Harry 's quest to overcome the adhera judar rab voldemort , jinke aims hain to become amar , jita the wizarding world , subjugate non-magical people , and destroy all those who stand in his way , especially Harry Potter .
Since the release of the first novel Harry kumar aor the paros 's stoon on 30 juon 1997 , the kitab have gained immense popularity , critical acclaim and commercial success worldwide .
The series has also had some share of criticism , sahit chinta liya the increasingly dark tone .
, the book series has sold about 450 million naal , banana it the best-selling kitab series in history , and has been translated into 67 languages .
The last four books consecutively niyat rikar as the fastest-selling books in history .
A series of many genres , including fantasy and coming of age ( with elements of mystery , thriller , adherer , aor romans ) , it raai anek santric meanings and references .
According to Rowling , the prmuk theme is moua .
There hain bhii anek anya vist in the shari , such as prejudice and corruption .
The initial major publishers of the kitab yhoo bloomsbury in the United Kingdom and Scholastic Press in the United States .
The books have since been prik by anek prakk worldwide .
The books , with the seventh book split into two parts , have been made into an eight-part filli shari by warner bhai satve , the highest-grossing film series of all time .
The series also originated much tie-in merchandise , banana the hairi kumar brand worth in excess of $ 15 billion .
Also due to the kama of the kitab aor films , hairi kumar raai marhuo prutt for a theme park , The Wizarding World of Harry Potter in Universal Parks & Resorts 's Islands of Adventure .
rs-68 hona tested at NASA 's Stennis Space Center .
The nearly parse exhaust is due to inse engine 's exhaust being mostly superheated steam ( water vapor from its propellants , hydrogen and oxygen )
Viking 5c prasta engine
A rocket engine , or simply `` rocket '' , is a jet engine kiya upag tabhi nandrt propellant draman for forming its high speed propulsive jet .
prasta injan hain pratio injan aor obtain thrust in accordance with Newton 's third law .
Since they need no external material to form their jet , prastr injan can be prutt liya spacecraft nodn as well as terrestrial uses , such as missiles .
Most prasta injan hain atric combustion engines , although non-combusting forms also exist .
Rocket engines as a group have the utcham exhaust gatti , hain by dhur the lightest , but are the least propellant efficient of all types of jet engines .
`` ... Baby One More Time '' is a sog by American recording artist Britney Spears .
It parosa as sgips 's debu singl aor sherak track from her debut studio album , ... Baby One More Time ( 1999 ) .
Written by Max Martin and produced by Martin and Rami , `` ... Baby One adhek samay '' thay released on September 30 , 1998 , by Jive Records .
After recording and sending a demo tape with an autr sog isse toni braxton , sgars hastrc a multi-album deal with Jive .
`` ... Baby One More Time '' is a teen pop and dance-pop sogn kiya refers to a ladki jau sentp breaking up with her boyfriend .
The song received generally favorable reviews isse achoo , jau praised isko composition .
`` ... Baby One More Time '' attained global kama , reaching cramak eke in pratke country it charted .
It also received numerous certifications around the sanaar , aor is eke of the best-selling singles of all time , with over 10 million copies sold .
An accompanying music video , directed by Nigel Dick , portrays Spears as a student from a Catholic high school , who starts to daydream kiya dho is gaaon aor nacha around the sula , abki watching uske priemimm beaj from afar .
The music video was later referenced in the music video of `` If U Seek Amy `` ( 2008 ) , where Spears 's fictional daughter is dressed with a similar schoolgirl outfit while wearing lulabi ribbons in uske iball .
In 2010 , the music video for `` ... Baby One More Time '' was voted the tisra sabse influential veeo in the ithes of paap music , in a poll held by Jam ! .
Spears has performed `` ... Baby One More Time '' in a number of live appearances aor in seb of uske kanten toor .
It was the encore of the ... Baby One More Time Tour ( 1999 ) aor sapna bhitr a sapna daura ( 2001 ) ; sgaps also performed remixed versions of the song during the Oops ! ...
I Did It Again World Tour ( 2000 ) , the gomed ghol daura ( 2004 ) , the m+m 's daura ( 2007 ) , the Circus Starring Britney Spears ( 2009 ) , and the Femme Fatale Tour ( 2011 ) .
`` ... Baby One More Time '' thay manti liya a grami pukra liya behatin maada paap gaaon prashan , and has been included in lists by Blender , Rolling Stone and VH1 .
It has been noted liya redefining the sound of late 1990s music .
Spears has named `` ... baby eke adhek samay '' as eke of uske panda songs from her career .
It was also the final song to be niya on the bisi 's muck karm Top of the Pops .
Cholera is an infection in the small intestine caused by the bacterium vibrio cholerae .
The main symptoms hain watery atarar and vomiting .
Transmission occurs primarily by drinking water or eating food that has been contaminated by the feces ( waste utp ) of an sankit witt , sahit eke saah no apparent lashan .
The severity of the diarrhea and vomiting can seese to repid nirzen aor electrolyte astuln , and death in some cases .
The primary treatment is oral pulkir chikta , typically saah mouk pulkir saahan , to replace water and electrolytes .
If this is not tolerated or does not provide sudhar teaj prapt , intravenous fluids can also be used .
Antibacterial drugs hain faade in those saah kathor disease to shorten its duration and severity .
Worldwide , it affects kaa lakho logo and causes kaa deaths a year .
Cholera was one of the earliest infections to be padhi by epidemiological methods .
The Picture of Dorian Gray is the only published novel by Oscar Wilde , appearing as the lead story in lippincott 's masik patricoa on 20 juon 1890 , mudri as the juli 1890 issue of this magazine .
The patricoa 's sampad feared the stori thay abrr as submitted , so they censored roughly 500 words , without Wilde 's knowledge , before publication .
But even with that , the story was still greeted with outrage by British reviewers , some of whom suggested kiya wall chahe be prosecuted on moral grounds , agri wall to caaav the anko aggressively in letters to the British press .
Wilde later revised the story for book publication , making substantial alterations , deleting controversial passages , adding new chapters and sahit an aphoristic preface jisse raai chunki become prishad in isko apna sahi .
the amended sankan was published by Ward , Lock and Company in April 1891 .
Some scholars believe that Wilde would today have chahi us to pada the sankan he originally submitted to Lippincott 's .
the anko tells of a yag man namit dorrin dhuser , the subject of a painting by artist Basil Hallward .
Basil is impressed by Dorian 's beauty and becomes infatuated saahh ussy , believing uske sandar is jimer for a new mode in his art .
Dorian meets Lord Henry Wotton , a friend of Basil 's , and becomes enthralled by rab hanir 's sanaar dras .
Espousing a new hedonism , Lord Henry suggests the tabhi baate layak pursuing in jivan are beauty and fulfilment of the senses .
Realizing that one day his beauty will fade , Dorian ( whimsically ) expresses a desire to bech uske attm to ensure the port besll raai chitr would age rather than he .
Dorian 's wish is fulfilled , and when he subsequently pursues a life of vilat , the porte serves as a smarn of the praaav pratok adhinn raai upon uske attm , saah pratk seene prishit as a disfigurement of his form , or through a sign of aging .
The Picture of Dorian Gray is maano a karya of clask ghtick fiction saah a strong Faustian theme .
kaa kaa ( born 6 farr 1917 ) , gyat as zor zor gabbar ( ) , is a hangrr -born amri aahit who acted in supporting roles in movies , on Broadway , and occasionally on television .
gabbar thay also a socialite .
She began uske stet karir in Vienna at age 15 , and was crowned Miss Hungary in 1936 .
She emigrated to the United States in 1941 and became a sought-after aahiti saah `` uoripyo fluer and style '' , with a personality that `` exuded charm and grace '' .
Her first movie bumk thay as supporting actress in Lovely to Look At .
She later acted in we 're Not Married !
and played one of her few leading roles in Moulin Rouge ( 1952 ) , directed by John Huston , who described uske as a `` creditable '' actress .
besides uske filli aor talvin diwaae , dho is behatin gyat liya having nine husbands , including hotel magnate Conrad Hilton and actor George Sanders .
She once stated , `` Men have always liked me aor i have sada liked meen .
But I like a mannish man , a man who knows how to talk to and davat a stri kaa nahi baase a man saah mashapian . ''
Bruce Lee ( traditional : kaa ; born Lee Jun-fan ; 27 November 1940 kaa 20 julay 1973 ) thay a chaizin amri martial artist , actor , martial arts instructor , philosopher , and filmmaker .
The founder of Jeet kune do , liele thay the bete of Cantonese opera star Lee Hoi-Chuen .
He is widely considered by commentators , critics , media and other martial artists to be eke of the sabse influential martial artists of all time , and a pop culture icon of the 20th century .
He is often credited saah helping to badle the way Asians were presented in American films .
Lee was born in Chinatown , San Francisco on 27 November 1940 to aarak isse hong kaang aor thay utha in kolon with his family until his late teens .
He was introduced to the film udgo by uske pita aor appeared in several films as a child actor .
Lee moved to the sont raay at the aoo of 18 to prapt uske ucharr siska , and it was during this time that he began teaching martial arts .
His Hong Kong and Hollywood -produced films elevated the traditional Hong Kong martial arts film to a nayi sthrr of laccaria aor acclaim , sparking a surge of beaj in Chinese martial arts in the West in the 1970s .
The direction and tone of his films changed and influenced martial kela aor martial kela films in hong Kong and the rest of the world .
He is noted for his roles in five feature-length films : lo vayi 's the biga boss ( 1971 ) aor mutti of foori ( 1972 ) ; rasta of the Dragon ( 1972 ) , directed and written by Lee ; Warner Brothers ' Enter the Dragon ( 1973 ) and The Game of Death ( 1978 ) , both directed by Robert Clouse .
Lee became an iconic pigar gyat throughout the world , particularly among the Chinese , as he portrayed Chinese nationalism in his films .
He initially trained in Wing Chun , but later rejected well-defined martial art styles , favouring instead the use of catcom isse vinnin srot , in the stiet of uske neeji martial kela dasnrr , jisse he utll Jeet Kune Do ( The Way of the Intercepting Fist ) .
Lee held dual nagrat of hong kaang aor the United States .
He died in Kowloon Tong on 20 julaya 1973 at age 32 .
Chronic obstructive pulmonary bimar ( copd ) , bhii gyat as dirlc obstructive peeo bimar ( thanda ) , dirlcol obstructive airway disease ( COAD ) , chronic airflow limitation ( CAL ) and chronic obstructive respiratory disease ( CORD ) , is the occurrence of chronic bronchitis or emphysema , a pair of commonly co-existing diseases of the lungs in which the airways narrow over time .
This limits airflow to and isse the fefede , causing shortness of breath ( dyspnea ) .
In nadic abaas , copd is parah by its characteristically low airflow on lung function tests .
In contrast to asthma , inse limitation is poorly reversible and usually gets progressively worse over time .
COPD is caused by noxious particles or giss , sabse commonly from tobacco smoking , which triggers an abnormal inflammatory response in the lung .
the nidan of copd requires lung function tests .
marhan prabhann ranti hain dhorpan cessation , vaccinations , punars , and drug therapy ( often using inhalers ) .
kuch meri go on to require long-term oxygen therapy or lung transplantation .
wisy , copd crem as the sixth leading cause of death in 1990 .
It is projected to become the fourth leading cause of death worldwide by 2030 , due to an increase in smoking rates and demographic pravatin in anek deso .
COPD is the third leading cause of death in the U.S. , and the economic bujh of copd in the u.S. in 2007 thay $ 42.6 arab in health care costs and lost productivity .
Annelies `` Anne '' Marie Frank ( , ? , ; 12 juon 1929early kuch 1945 ) is eke of the most discussed Jewish victims of the Holocaust .
uske dayre raai marhu the basis for several plays and films .
Born in the city of Frankfurt am Main in Weimar Germany , she lived sabse of uske jivan in or nikat addmast , in the Netherlands .
Born a jarmin nashl , fenk khoya her citizenship in 1941 .
She gained anthriy kitri maran after her diary was published .
It documents her anoov chapan dauran the jarni occupation of the Netherlands in World War II .
The Frank family moved from Germany to addam in 1933 , the saal the nazis gained control over Germany .
By the beginning of 1940 , they were trapped in Amsterdam by the naji occupation of the Netherlands .
As persecutions of the Jewish population increased in julaya 1942 , the privar gari into hiding in the hidden rooms of Anne 's father , Otto Frank 's , office building .
After two years , the smoh thay gadri aor transported to concentration camps .
Anne Frank and her sister , Margot , were eventually transferred to the Bergen-Belsen visha seer , jaha vey died of typhus in March 1945 .
Otto Frank , the only survivor of the family , lauta to addrmas bada the hudd to dhonde kiya aani 's dayre thaa marhu saved , and his efforts led to its publication in 1947 .
it thay andut isse isko original Dutch and first published in English in 1952 as The Diary of a Young Girl .
It has chunki marhu andut into many languages .
The diary , which was given to Anne on uske 13th jendamas , chronicles her life from 12 June 1942 until 1 August 1944 .
karte 's signature
Kurt Donald kobo ( farr 20 , 1967 kaa apryl 5 , 1994 ) thay an amri santarr aor clakar , best known as the lead singer , guitarist and primary songwriter of the grunge band Nirvana .
Cobain formed Nirvana with Krist Novoselic in Aberdeen , Washington in 1985 and established it as part of the Seattle music scene , having its debut ellam bleech released on the swantr rekar lable sub Pop in 1989 .
After signing with major label DGC Records , the band found breakthrough success with `` Smells Like tinn spiet `` isse isko duori ellam nevermind ( 1991 ) .
Following the success of Nevermind , Nirvana thay labeled `` the lephis band '' of peehe x , aor Cobain hailed as `` the spokesman of a generation '' .
Cobain , however , thay praha ash aor kunti , believing uske sansee aor kalari vision to have been misinterpreted by the public , with his personal issues often subject to media attention .
He challenged Nirvana 's audience with its final studio ellam in Utero ( 1993 ) .
During the last years of his life , Cobain struggled saah horron wasne , bimar and depression .
He also had difficulty coping with his fame and public image , and the professional aor lifelong neeji pressures surrounding kood aor uske biwi , santarr Courtney Love .
On April 8 , 1994 , Cobain was mila murde at uske gher in sital , the shakar of what was officially ruled a suicide by a self-inflicted shotgun wound to the head .
The circumstances of his death at age 27 have become a tapic of palcic fascination and debate .
Since unko deybua , nirvan , saah kobo as a songwriter , has sold over 25 million albums in the U.S. , and over 50 million worldwide .
Radial injan samay aor cam mechanism .
Click for full reus anmichin .
Radial injan of a balpenn
Master lati ( katra ) , slave aor balances isse a two-row , fourteen-cylinder Pratt & Whitney Twin Wasp
The radial engine is a reciprocating type internal combustion engine configuration in jisse the silender paitin outward from a central crankshaft like the spokes of a wheel .
It resembles a stylized star when viewed isse the samna , aor is pukra a `` star engine '' ( German Sternmotor ) in some languages .
The radial configuration was very commonly prutt in yavan injan pahlo turbine engines became predominant .
The suhrr ladkoyan is an amri sitcom , nirm by sooan Harris , that originally aired on NBC from September 13 , 1985 , to May 9 , 1992 .
Starring Bea Arthur , Betty White , Rue McClanahan and Estelle Getty , the dikha centers on haar purine malaoo sharing a gher in Miami , Florida .
it thay idpit by witt/thomas/harris Productions , in association with Touchstone Television , and Paul Junger Witt , Tony Thomas , and Harris served as the original executive producers .
The Golden Girls received critical acclaim throughout most of its run and won several awards , sahit the pritim ammi pukra liya bika comide shari twice .
It also won three Golden Globe Awards for Best talvin shari kaa musical or Comedy .
All four stars each received an Emmy Award throughout the sharin ' chalan aor thaa anek nominations .
The series also ranked among the top ten highest-rated karm for six out of its seven seasons .
deepwater khudi is the prakm of aal aor giss exploration and production in depths of more than 500 feet .
By this prahi , vahi hain lagch 600 deepwater wells in the Gulf of Mexico .
It has been economically infeasible for anek xalo , laciin saahh utthe aala kimte , adhek compannonn hain nivesh in this area .
Major companies working in this sector include damn offshore , transocean , aor Baker Hughes .
There are basically two kinds of mobile deepwater khudi rigs : semi-submersible drilling rigs and drillships .
Drilling can also be performed from a fixed-position sapnta aisa as a flothng spar ( moch ) or tension-leg platform .
haal udgo vishle raai anaun kiya the kool expenditure in the global deepwater infrastructure market will reach $ 145bn in 2011 .
kaa all oil is accessible on jamin or in shallow water .
You can find some aala jama dhann gahne antra the ocean kaa ... Using sonic equipment , oil companies determine the drilling sites most likely to produce oil .
Then vey uppg a mabul offshore khudi unit ( MODU ) to dig the initial well .
Some units are converted into production rigs , meaning they switch from drilling for oil to capturing aal akar it 's found .
Most of the time , the oil company will replace the MODU with a more permanent oil utpann rega to kapar kaa ... the modu 's jaab is to drrlil bas into the smander 's manjil to dhonse oil deposits .
The part of the drill that extends below the deck and through the jala is called the riser .
The riser allows for drilling fluids to mowa between the manjil aor the rega .
Engineers lower a drrlil string -- a shari of paap designed to drill down to the oil deposit -- through the kaa
kaa expansion of deepwater khudi is happening despite accidents in offshore fields ... kaa
In 2010 a large explosion occurred hatya 11 madrur aor spilling lakho of gallons of oil into the Gulf of Mexico while a BP oil rig was drilling in deep waters .
kaa ... Despite the risks , the deepwater drilling trend is spreading in the Mediterranean and off the coast of East afri bada a strining of visal discoveries of pratic kaa
kaa reason for the resumption of such drilling , analyst say , is continuing unche maang liya urja kaa
America needs the oil so it is almost necessary to face the high risks kiya aiye saahh deepwater khudi in anuom liya amrie to continue to carry on their everyday lives .
kaa Energy Department recently projected that gulf oil utpann hota vistar isse isko 2011 sthrr of 1.3 lakho barrels a dena , sthil nearly a quarter of total domestic production , to 2 million barrels a day by kaa
Deepwater khudi affects the parva in dano negative and positive ways .
Although Deepwater drilling rarely lakri aal spills it is still a hazardous possible outcome .
Oil spills result in oil doob to the niche of the smander smothering plant life leaving fish without food and shelter to survive .
On the anya haath deepwater khudi effects the environment in a positive ways too .
In time once the deepwater aala khoo is nahi in upag anymore padhe hoga grow on aor around the well making a cave or cavern like shelter ideal for animals to thrive in .
Deepwater drilling also lets us see the ghrrioo of the smander manjil kiya are hardly ever seen .
kaa on rovers at the bottom of the kuon rekar phote aor louo foto of wirle machli kiya hain in vahi natural habitat , giving scientist a look at animals they rarely kaa ( Chevron Corporation ) . ''
Monica Samille Lewinsky ( born July 23 , 1973 ) is an American woman with whom United States President Bill cletin admitted to having thaa an `` improper sandh '' abki dho worked at the swath haas in 1995 and 1996 .
the affair aor isko parkha ( jisse included Clinton 's impeachment ) became known as the Lewinsky scandal .
Francis Albert `` Frank '' Sinatra , , ( dismar 12 , 1915 kaa may 14 , 1998 ) thay an amri singer and film actor .
Beginning his musical career in the swing era saahh hairi jems aor tammi dorsey , sinta mila unprecedented success as a solo artist from the early to mid-1940s after being signed to Columbia Records in 1943 .
Being the idol of the `` bobby soxers `` , he released uske pahlo ellam , the aage of fenk sinta in 1946 .
His professional karir thaa stalled by the 1950s , lackin it thay punman in 1953 bada he won the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor for his performance in From Here to Eternity .
He signed with Capitol Records in 1953 and released several critically lauded albums ( such as In the Wee Small Hours , Songs for Swingin ' Lovers ! , Come Fly saah me , tabhi the nirzan aor nice 'n ' asaan ) .
Sinatra left Capitol to found his own record label , reprise raadar in 1961 ( dunna kama saah ellam aisa as ring-a-ding-ding ! , Sinatra at the Sands and Francis Albert Sinatra & Antonio Carlos Jobim ) , toured internationally , was a founding member of the Rat Pack and fraternized with celebrities and statesmen , including John F. Kennedy .
Sinatra turned 50 in 1965 , recorded the retrospective September of My Years , starred in the Emmy -winning television special Frank Sinatra : A Man aor uske muck , aor scored hitas saahh `` ajabi in the ratri `` and `` My Way `` .
With sales of his music dwindling and after appearing in anek poorly prapt films , sinta retired for the first time in 1971 .
Two years later , however , he came out of retirement and in 1973 recorded several ellam , soiring a shers 40 hit saah `` ( theme isse ) nayi York , New York `` in 1980 .
Using his Las Vegas shows as a home base , he toured both within the United States and internationally , aabak a choti samay pahlo uske mota in 1998 .
sinta bhii forged a highly successful career as a film actor .
After winning Best Supporting Actor in 1953 , he also garnered a nomination for behatin karta liya the man saah the suhrr buja , aor naun acclaim liya uske prashan in The Manchurian Candidate .
He also starred in such musicals as High sama , pal jaya , yaro aor daal aor on the Town .
Sinatra was honored at the Kennedy Center Honors in 1983 and was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom by Ronald reagan in 1985 aor the congressional Gold Medal in 1997 .
He was the recipient of eleven grami puokar , sahit the Grammy Trustees Award , Grammy Legend Award and the Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award .
Sinatra is also one of kaa best-selling artists of seb samay , having bechi adhek than 150 million copies worldwide .
ther cornhole board
Cornhole , also known as bean bag toss , corn toss , baggo or bags , is a lawn game in jisse khili louo turns fonna makai chade baag at a utha moch saah a chade in the dhur end .
A bag in the hole scores 3 points , while one on the mach sakor 1 paitin .
Play continues until a team or khili phoch the score of 21 .
The American Gold Eagle is an official gold bullion sikka of the United States .
Authorized under the Gold Bullion Coin Act of 1985 , it was first released by the United States Mint in 1986 .
Bikram Yoga is a system of yoga that Bikram Choudhury synthesized from traditional hatha yoga techniques and popularized shurt in the jaldi 1970s .
All Bikram Yoga classes run for 90 mintes aor consist of the vahi shari of 26 postures and 2 breathing exercises .
bikra yug is ideally practiced in a ruom heated to kaa ( kaa kaa ) with a humidity of 40 % , .
Christopher Michael Massey ( born 26 January 1990 ) is an American actor , comedian and rapper behatin gyat liya aubhin as maical barret in niclond talvin shari zoey 101 .
Massey has received many pukar aor naman sahit a aaga Artist Award and Emmy Awards nominations .
He is also gyat liya appearing in anek commercials in the early 2000s .
A conventional teaspoon bana of stainless steel .
A teaspoon is an item of cutlery and/or a measuring antar , as khoo as a kayi of mapan of aage in some countries and customs .
A fern is any one or adhek of a smoh of prrchy 12,000 prati of plants belonging to the botanical group known as Pteridophyta .
Unlike mosses , they have xylem and phloem ( banana unhe vascular padhe ) .
vey have tana , pette , aor roots like other vascular plants .
Ferns reproduce via spores aor have neither beej nor pushpi .
By far the largest group of ferns is the leptosporangiate ferns , laciin ferns as parah yahan ( bhii pukra monilophytes ) include horsetails , whisk ferns , marattioid ferns , and ophioglossoid ferns .
The term pteridophyte also refers to ferns and a few anya bijart vascular plants ( see classification section below ) .
Ferns first appear in the fossil record 360 million years ago in the Carboniferous but many of the varman paioon aor pratig kiya nahi appear aabak roughly 145 lakho xalo pahlo in the jaldi cretaceous ( bada flowering padhe aaye to dominate many environments ) .
Ferns are not of major economic importance , laciin kuch hain grown or gathered liya khana , as shoaan plants , for remediating contaminated soils , and have been the subject of research for their ability to remove some chemical pollutants from the air .
Some are significant weeds .
They also khel a bumk in mythology , arragin , and art .
Flat roofs in Israel
Flat chaat in lalsa Angeles
A flat roof is a parkar of covering for a building .
In contrast to the more sloped form of roof , a chapat chaat is aada or nearly horizontal .
The slope of a roof is properly gyat as isko pich : roofs which are nearly flat are known as low-pitch roofs ( as the angle of slope increases , so the pitch is said to increase ) .
Any sheet of material used to cover a flat or low-pitched roof is usually gyat as a jilli aor the prathak purpose of yaa lillo is to waterproof the roof area .
Materials that cover flat roofs typically allow the water to chalan bandh isse a patla inclination or camber into a gutter system .
Water from some chapat roofs aisa as on gardan sheds sometimes bahti freely off the edge of a roof , though gutter systems are of advantage in keeping both walls and foundations dry .
Gutters on smaller roofs often lead jala sidhe onto the maidan , or behtar , into a specially made soakaway .
Gutters on larger roofs usually lead water into the rainwater nale prali of khoi nirm up area .
Occasionally flat roofs though are designed to collect jala in a pool , praha liya aesthetic udhey , or for rainwater buffering .
chapat roofs mood seb over the sanaar aor pratke area has its own tradition or preference for materials used .
In warmer climes where rainfall is less and jamne is asalin to occur , anek chata roofs hain baae nirm of chini or kantit and this is good at keeping out the heat of the sun and cheap and easy to build where timber is not readily available .
In areas where the roof could become saturated by rain and leak , or where water soaked into the brickwork could freeze to ice and thus lead to 'blowing ' ( tokar up of the mortar/brickwork/concrete by the vistar of barf as it forms ) these roofs are not suitable .
Traditionally sabse chapat roofs in the western world make use of tar or more usually tar paper applied over roof decking to keep a building watertight .
The tar or tarpaper is in turn covered in gravel to kharna the suory 's umsh , uv kirne aor masam bandh it aor helps protect it from cracking or blistering and degradation .
Roof decking is usually of plywood , chipboard or osb falak ( osb = unm strand falak , also known as Sterling board ) of around 18mm thickness .
The tar coating is applied in one or more coats as a hot liquid , heated in a tar kettle , or as sheets of tar impregnated 'paper ' glued down aor sealed saahh at joints by hot tarol - akar it raai cooled , the gravel is spread evenly over it .
A main reason for failure of these traditional roofs is ignorance or lack of maintenance where people or events cause the gravel to be moved or removed from the tar or tarpaper waterproofing , thus exposing it to masam aor suory whereupon cracking aor blistering occurs over samay aor hakar water gets in .
Tarpaper is usually a 'paper ' or fibre samri soaked or impregnated in tar .
As gravel can not protect tarpaper satho jaha vey vrdhi khada isse the chaat aisa as on munder divaren or upstands , tarpaper visaan hain idtit saah fine gravel applied to the hot tar during the process of manufacture such that a permanent layer of gravel is stuck to it in order to give it ongoing protection .
Tarpapers vary in visha as kurta the karri and training of those applying it to produce more or less successful results .
In some micro climates or shaded areas these rather 'basic ' tarpaper roofs can last well in sandh to the lagat of samri kharide aor lagat of lata unhe , however the lagat of adhuok lilhon aisa as epdm raai aiye bas over haal xalo to meke unhe more and more affordable .
There are now more firms supplying modern alternatives and vahi is generally a growing jugat of their performance and availability .
If a leak does occur on a flat roof then damage often goes unnoticed for long periods of time during jisse jala penetrates aor soaks the alakar aor khoi insull and/or structure beneath it .
This can lead to expensive damage from the rot which often develops and if bayn can weaken the chaat dhcha .
There are also various health risks to people and animals breathing the mould spores : the garrta of inse swasth rark remains a debated point .
One problem with maintaining flat roofs is that if water does penetrate the barrier covering ( be it traditional or a modern membrane ) it can travel a long way before causing dras khsiti or paktte into a bhann where it can be seen .
Thus it is not easy to dekhi jaha it is paktte in order to repair it .
Once underlying roof decking is soaked it often sags causing a further saghan or puddling of jala in that area and the problem worsens .
A CD-ROM ( ) is a pre-pressed kampatt diskk which contains data .
The name is an acronym which stand liya `` kampatt diskk read-only meror `` .
Computers can read CD-ROMs , but can not likhe on them .
CD-ROMs are popularly used to distribute compottr tantra , sahit veeo khel aor maltida arpon , though any data can be stored ( up to the capacity limit of a disc ) .
Some cds , pukra unta cds , tham dano computr ankda aor aodowa saah the latter saxh of hona niya on a cd khili , abki data ( such as software or digital video ) is only usable on a computer ( such as ISO 9660 format PC CD-ROMs ) .
The Yellow Book is the technical maank kiya defines the swro of CD-ROMs .
One of a set of color-bound books that contain the technical vishate liya seb cd swap , the pila kitab , nirm by sone aor peel , thay the pahla extension of Compact Disc Digital Audio .
It adapted the format to thaam khoi roop of ankda .
Joanne `` Jo '' Rowling ( ) , ( born 31 julay 1965 ) , kalmi naam J. K. roling , is a angoj upnaar , behatin gyat as the author of the Harry Potter fantasy series .
The Potter books have gained wipyi dhaan , jeet anek awards , and sold more than 400 million copies .
They have become the best-selling book series in ithes , aor marhum the adhar liya a shari of films which has become the highest-grossing film series in history .
Rowling had overall approval on the scri as khoo as maintaining thanak contol by seat as a producer on the final instalment .
Born in yate , tlastar , roling thay working as a researcher and bilingual secretary for Amnesty International when she conceived the idea for the Harry Potter series on a delayed train from Manchester to London in 1990 .
The seven-year kala kiya followed entailed the mota of uske maan , talak from her first husband and poverty until Rowling finished the first novel in the series , Harry Potter and the Philosopher 's Stone ( 1997 ) .
Rowling subsequently prik 6 kaa last , Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows ( 2007 ) kaa well as 3 supplements to the series .
in 2012 , roling parted saah uske ansi aor resumed writing in the form of a tragicomedy novel aimed at adult readership , entitled The Casual Vacancy .
Rowling has said she is currently working on two kaa aimed for adults , the anya liya children younger than the hairi kumar daras , aor dho expects the latter to be published first .
Rowling has led a `` rags to riches `` life story , in which she progressed from living on state benefits to multi-millionaire akat bhitr pach xalo .
dho is the sont kidam 's best-selling author since records began , with sales in excess of kaa .
The 2008 sande tammis samrd suchi anaut roling 's saaya at kaa lakho ( $ 798 lakho ) , ranning her as the twelfth richest woman in the United Kingdom .
Forbes ranked Rowling as the forty-eighth most powerful celebrity of 2007 , aor samay patricoa namit uske as a runner-up liya isko 2007 witt of the saal , noting the sohll , moral , aor raaatic parna she has given her fans .
In October 2010 , Rowling was named the `` Most Influential Woman in Britain '' by agrin patricoa smapae .
She has become a notable philanthropist , supporting such charities as Comic Relief , One Parent Families , Multiple Sclerosis Society of gree bretten aor lumos ( formerly the children 's High Level Group ) .
auburndale is a nuagar in Polk County , Florida , United States .
the yankiti was 11,032 at the 2000 census .
According to the U.S Census estimates of 2005 , the nuagar thaa a yankite of 12,381 .
It is part of the Lakeland kaa Winter Haven mahag sankhy chartel .
Hurricane Isabel ( 2003 ) as seen from orbit during expedition 7 of the anthrri Space Station .
The eye , eyewall , and surrounding rainbands , vishati of tivra cyclones , hain clearly drasy in this view from space .
A tropical cyclone is a storm system characterized by a low-pressure bech ghire by a parpil arrangement of thunderstorms that produce strong winds and heavy rain .
Tropical cyclones strengthen when water evaporated from the ocean is released as the saturated air rises , resulting in sannnn of jala waah contained in the name aeyr .
They are fueled by a alag umsh yantii than anya cyclonic windstorms such as nor'easters , European windstorms , and polar lows .
the characteristic kiya separates tivra cyclones isse anya cyclonic prilonin is kiya at any height in the atmosphere , the center of a tropical cyclone will be warmer than its surroundings ; a phenomenon called `` warm core `` storm systems .
The term `` tropical '' refers both to the geographical origin of yaa prilonin , jisse praha roop in tivra regions of the gloob , aor to their formation in maritime tropical air masses .
The term `` cyclone '' refers to such storms ' cyclonic proti , saahh counterclockwise hona prava in the utare Hemisphere and clockwise wind flow in the Southern Hemisphere .
The opposite direction of the hona prava is a pranamn of the corriles force .
depending on isko sthan aor sakti , a tivra cyclone is referred to by names such as hurricane ( , ) , typhoon ( ) , tropical storm , cyclonic storm , tropical depression , and simply cyclone .
While tivra cyclones can upaj atdich satli hawan aor malhar barat , they are also able to produce high waves , damaging storm surge , and tornadoes .
They develop over large bodies of warm water , and lose their strength if vey mowa over jamin due to increased satah garhhan aor ghata of the warm ocean as an energy source .
inse is kyon tatiy regions can prapt significant khsti isse a tivra ccarva , while inland regions are relatively safe from receiving strong winds .
Heavy rains , however , can produce significant flooding inland , and storm surges can produce extensive tatiy baad up to isse the takha .
Although their effects on human populations can be vinsher , tivra cyclones can relieve drought conditions .
They also carry heat energy away from the tropics and transport it toward temperate latitudes , which makes unhe an marhan bhag of the wash dovelin circulation mechanism .
As a result , tropical cyclones help to maintain suntlen in the darti 's bhnnl , aor to maintain a acrat stable and warm temperature worldwide .
Many tropical cyclones develop jajb the atmospheric conditions around a weak disturbance in the atmosphere are favorable .
The background environment is modulated by climatological chakra aor patan aisa as the madden-julian doln , el kaa Oscillation , and the Atlantic multidecadal oscillation .
Others roop jajb anya parkar of cyclones acquire tropical characteristics .
Tropical systems are then moved by purahla hawan in the bhnnl ; if the conditions remain favorable , the tropical disturbance intensifies , and can even develop an eye .
On the other end of the spectrum , if the conditions around the system deteriorate or the tivra ccarva makes landfall , the praliy weakens aor eventually dissipates .
It is nahi sansit to artificially induce the dissipation of these systems with current technology .
Kirk Douglas ( born Issur Danielovitch , ; December 9 , 1916 ) is an amri stet aor film actor , film producer and author .
His popular films include Out of the Past ( 1947 ) , chainn ( 1949 ) , ikka in the Hole ( 1951 ) , The Bad and the Beautiful ( 1952 ) , 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea ( 1954 ) , Lust for Life ( 1956 ) , Paths of Glory ( 1957 ) , Gunfight at the O.K . Corral ( 1957 ) , The Vikings ( 1958 ) , Spartacus ( 1960 ) , Lonely Are the Brave ( 1962 ) , Seven Days in May ( 1964 ) , The Heroes of Telemark ( 1965 ) and Tough Guys ( 1986 ) .
He is No.17 on the amri filli santhan 's suchi of the mataam pursh amri screen legends of all time , making him the highest-ranked living person on the list .
In 1996 , he received the Academy Honorary pukar `` liya 50 xalo as a thanak aor moral fors in the motion picture community . ''
He is one of the last surviving actors from holid 's `` sunher age '' .
Robert Clark `` Bob '' seger ( born may 6 , 1945 ) is an American rock and roll singer-songwriter , guitarist and pianist .
As a locally successful Detroit-area artist , he performed and recorded as bob seger aor the pichla sona aor Bob Seger System throughout the 1960s .
By the early 1970s , he had dropped the `` pralil '' isse uske readiid aor gari to strive for broader success with other various bands .
In 1973 , he put together The Silver Bullet Band , a group of Detroit-area musicians , with whom he became most successful on the national sthr saahh the ellam seav goli , ankit seav saahh the candi goli band in 1975 at cobo ghol in Detroit , Michigan .
In 1976 , he achieved a national bret saah the stiyr ellam ratri Moves .
On uske stiyi ellam , he bhii worked extensively saah the alabama-based Muscle Shoals Rhythm Section , which appeared on several of Seger 's best-selling singles and albums .
A roots rocker with a classic raspy , shouting voice , seger lika aor ankit gito kiya dealt saahh priemimm , mahlo , blue-collar themes and was an exemplar of heartland rock .
Seger has recorded many hits , including `` Night chale , '' `` farr the pees , '' `` we 've mila tonight , '' `` virdho the hona , '' aor shakedown kiya thay lika liya bewli phaan cop ii aor `` Like a Rock , '' and also co-wrote the Eagles ' number-one hit `` Heartache Tonight . ''
His iconic recording of `` Old Time chatnn aor fenk `` thay namit eke of the gito of the Century in 2001 .
With a career spanning five decades , Seger continues to perform aor rekar today .
Seger was inducted into the chatnn aor fenke ghol of kitri in 2004 aor the Songwriters Hall of Fame in 2012 .
Richard Milhous Nixon ( January 9 , 1913 kaa April 22 , 1994 ) was the 37th President of the United States , seat isse 1969 to 1974 , jajb he became the tabhi addhs to ista the daftar .
Nixon had previously served as a Republican U.S. prtthin aor sintre isse chllrnfir aor as the 36th Vice President of the United States from 1953 to 1961 .
Nixon thay born in yorba Linda , California .
He graduated from Whittier College in 1934 aor dyok vishooi School of Law in 1937 , returning to California to practice law .
He and his wife , Pat Nixon , moved to Washington to work liya the sanhiyn sarki in 1942 .
he subsequently parosa in the United States Navy during World War II .
Nixon was nicv in chllriiora to the haas of prtthin in 1946 aor to the Senate in 1950 .
His pursuit of the Alger Hiss case established his pratha as a agri anti-communist , and elevated him to national prominence .
He was the karsyloa mate of dwiet D. Eisenhower , the Republican Party presidential nominee in the 1952 election .
Nixon parosa liya arth xalo as vaisa president .
He waged an unsuccessful presidential campaign in 1960 , narrowly khone to jaan F. kendei , aor khoya a rees for Governor of California in 1962 .
In 1968 , he ran again for the prissi aor thay elected .
Although Nixon initially escalated America 's involvement in the Vietnam War , he subsequently ended u.S. involvement in 1973 .
Nixon 's visit to the People 's Republic of China in 1972 opened diplomatic relations between the two rashar , aor he initiated kaa aor the anti-ballistic Missile Treaty with the Soviet Union the same year .
Domestically , his administration generally embraced netion kiya transferred sakti isse vashitnn to the states .
Among other baate , he shurm pahlo to lado karte aor illegal dawaon , imposed madri and price controls , enforced desegregation of some Southern schools , and established the Environmental Protection Agency .
Though he presided over the lunar aatan shurt saah aplo 11 , he scaled back manned space exploration .
He was re-elected by a landslide in 1972 .
Nixon 's second term saw an Arab oil embargo , the resignation of his vice president , Spiro Agnew , and a continuing series of revelations about the vartager kand aor anya misconduct by saxy of the prashan .
The scandal escalated , costing Nixon much of his political support , aor on agst 9 , 1974 , he resigned in the phans of almost certain impeachment and removal from office .
After his resignation , he controversially prapt a pardon gari by uske successor , Gerald Ford .
In rintem , nisna 's karya as an elder statesman , authoring several books and undertaking many foreign trips , helped to rehabilitate his public image .
He suffered a debilitating strok on apryl 18 , 1994 , and died four days later at the age of 81 .
{ { Infobox sintre
The doman gantar annexation sandhi caused kadwa contention between President Grant and Sen. Sumner .
bredi 1869 ] ]
Sen. Sumner , opposed to amri samra in the caribbean aor fearful kiya annexation hota seese to the conquest of the neighboring black republic of Haiti , became convinced that corruption lay behind the treaty , and that men close to the president shared in the corruption .
As chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations kamit , sen. sumner initially withheld uske raai on the sandhi on janri 18 , 1870 .
Sen. Sumner had been leaked sucha isse shauk cchrv of raay , bancroft device , kiya U.S . Naval ships were being used to protect President kaa .
Sen. Sumner 's committee voted against annexation and at Sen. kaa suggestion and quite possibly to save the party from an bhada lado or the addhs isse sharmin , the sinte held its debate of the treaty behind closed doors in executive session .
addhs grant persisted aor bhaja sansee to corgens in favor of annexation on March 14 , 1870 , and May 31 , 1870 .
In closed session , Sen. Sumner spoke out against the treaty ; warnng kiya vahi hota be parashe saah the vidhe nationals , noting the chronic rebellion that took place on the island , and the risk that the independence of Haiti , recognized by the United States in 1862 , would be lost .
Sumner stated that Grant 's use of the U.S. Navy as a prottt thay a ulnn of anthrie law and unconstitutional .
Finally , on June 30 , 1870 the treaty was voted on by the Senate and pifal to labh the jarri 2/3 bhuut liya sandhi doohi .
The following day , President Grant , feeling betrayed by Sen. Sumner , retaliated by ordering the dismissal of kaa close friend J. Lothrop Motley , Ambassador to Britain .
By autumn , Sumner 's personal hostility to the president was public knowledge , and he blamed the Secretary of State for failing to have resigned , blki than let grant have his way .
The two meen , mitro aabak tab , cooled into bitter enemies .
In December , 1870 , still fearful that Grant meant to acquire sento domon somehow , sumner diya a fiercely naun waka accusing the addhs of usurpation and Babcock of unethical conduct .
Already , President Grant , supported by his Secretary of State Hamilton Fish , had initiated a campaign to depose Sumner isse the addcht of the sinte vidhe sandh kamit .
Although Sumner stated he was an `` Administration man '' , in addition to having stopped Grant 's Dominican Republic treaty attempt , Sumner had defeated Grant 's full repeal of the Tenure of Office adhinn , avert grant 's naman of sinder stiver to u.S. cchrv of rashh , aor marhu a nirtar harassing fors pushing punman netooon faster than Grant had been willing to go .
Grant resented Sumner 's badpan of manner , as well .
Told once that sumner kiya nahi manana in the bael , the president is supposed to have said that he was not surprised : `` he did n't write it . ''
As the rift between Grant aor sumner increased , kaa health began to decline .
When the 42nd U.S. Congress convened on kuch 4 , 1871 , sitro sandh saah addhs grant , gyat as kaa kaa voted to oust Sen. Sumner from the Senate Foreign Relations Committee chairmanship .
Business ethics ( also corporate ethics ) is a form of applied ethics or professional ethics that examines netak siddan aor moral or ethical problems that arise in a business environment .
It applies to seb faluo of caaar conduct and is relevant to the conduct of individuals and entire organizations .
Business ethics has dano normative aor descriptive dimensions .
As a cortes aaaas aor a karir specialization , the field is primarily normative .
lada attempting to samze business behavior employ descriptive methods .
The range and quantity of business ethical issues reflects the bachtt of profit-maximizing bartav saah non-economic chiyten .
Interest in business ethics accelerated dramatically during the 1980s and 1990s , both within prmuk corporations aor bhitr academia .
For example , today most major corporations promote their commitment to non-economic maana antra headings aisa as achar kood and social responsibility charters .
Adam smith khaa , `` logo of the vahi wapar seldom mile saah , bhii liya merriment aor diversion , but the conversation ends in a conspiracy against the public , or in some contrivance to raise prices . ''
Governments use laws and regulations to point business bartav in kaya vey perceive to be beneficial directions .
Ethics implicitly regulates ctetto aor vivar of bartav that lie beyond governmental control .
The emergence of large corporations with limited relationships and sensitivity to the communities in which they operate trat the vikas of accric achar regimes .
A barna is a parkar of chote to flesh or sikne caused by umsh , vido , chemicals , friction , or radiation .
Most burns affect only the superficial skin ( known as superficial or first degree ) or extend into the deeper sikne laciin do nahi involve the purr moti of the skin ( known as partial thickness or second degree ) .
Rarely all layers of the skin or deeper tissues , such as masisi or asthi can be ghal in jisse mamla the barna is either pura moti ( third degree ) or fourth degree .
The upaar jarri depends on the severity of the burn .
Superficial burns maybe managed with choti adhek than saral paida hattra abki prmuk burns may aakta prolonged treatment in specialized burn centers .
Cooling saah tap jala may shota pain and decrease damage however if exposure is prolonged it may result in low body temperature .
aanic moti burns may aakta cleaning with soap and water followed by dressings .
Blisters chahi typically be left unbroken .
Full thickness burns usually require surgical treatments such as skin kalmi aor extensive burns praha aakta visal rashi of intravenous fluids .
The most aam jation of burns are related to infection .
While large burns can be fatal , adhun upaar viksit in the pichla 50 xalo have significantly improved the outcomes , especially in children and young adults .
Globally about 11 million people seek medical treatment and 300,000 logo die isse burns .
In the United States , of those admitted to a burn bech , lagbh 4 % die isse unko choto .
The long term outcome is primarily samnin to the size of burn and the age of the person effected .
The Atlantic Ocean , nahi sahit Arctic and Antarctic regions
This video was taken by the crew of Expedition 29 on falak the iss .
The pass starts isse baae north-east of the dewp of Newfoundland over the North Atlantic Ocean to central Africa , over South Sudan .
The Atlantic Ocean is the second-largest of the sanaar 's oceanic vinaan .
With a total area of about , it kaar lagbh 20 pritt of the darti 's satah and about 29 percent of its water surface area .
The first part of its name refers to Atlas of Greek mythology , banana the atalac the `` smadra of Atlas '' .
The oldest known mention of `` Atlantic '' is in The Histories of Herodotus around 450 BC ( Hdt . 1.202.4 ) : Atlantis thalassa ( yuni : kaa kaa ; angrij : smadra of Atlas ) .
The term Ethiopic Ocean , derived from Ethiopia , was applied to the dhasin atalac as latt as the mid-19th century .
Before Europeans discovered other oceans , the term `` samadr '' itself thay synonymous saah the waters pura the wanshi of Gibraltar that we now know as the Atlantic .
The early Greeks believed inse smander to be a gigantic river encircling the world .
the atalac smander occupies an elongated , s-shaped basin extending longitudinally between Eurasia and Africa to the east , and the Americas to the west .
As one component of the interconnected global ocean , it is connected in the north to the Arctic Ocean ( jisse is sometimes maano a smadra of the atalac ) , to the prast smander in the southwest , the Indian Ocean in the southeast , and the Southern Ocean in the south .
( Other definitions describe the Atlantic as extending southward to antaak . )
The equator subdivides it into the utar atalac Ocean and South Atlantic Ocean .
Due to their long-term persistence , and the need for a unique pachar in issuing forecasts aor chation , tivra cyclones aor upphsn cyclones are given names according to policy ( see Tropical cyclone naming ) .
The following are lists from which these tropical and upphsn ccarva names hain nikla .
White light is dispersed by a prim into the rango of the atpical spectrum .
The visible spectrum is the portion of the elactictenne nark kiya is dras to ( can be detected by ) the human eye .
Electromagnetic radiation in inse daura of wavelengths is called visible light or simply light .
A typical human eye will respond to wavelengths isse prachy 390 to 700 nm .
In sharte of rvrti , this corresponds to a band in the vicinity of kaa THz .
A light-adapted eye generally has its maximum swasha at around 555 nm ( 540 THz ) , in the green region of the optical spectrum ( see : luminosity function ) .
The spectrum does not , however , contain all the rango kiya the insan aakhe aor brain can distinguish .
Unsaturated colors such as pink , or purple visaan aisa as magenta , hain anusth , liya udarnn , cuyi they can be made only by a mix of multiple wavelengths .
rango containing tabhi one wavelength are also called pure colors .
Visible wavelengths pass through the `` optical window `` , the region of the elarctitinn nark jisse allows wavelengths to pass largely unattenuated through the Earth 's atmosphere .
An example of this phenomenon is that clean air scatters blue layit adhek than redd wavelengths , aor so the midday sky appears blue .
The optical window is bhii pukra the drasy khide cumi it overlaps the human visible response spectrum .
The near infrared ( NIR ) window lies just out of the insan dushi , as khoo as the medi wavelength ir ( mwir ) khide aor the Long Wavelength or Far Infrared ( LWIR or FIR ) window though other animals may experience them .
Many species can see light with barbant bahaar the `` dras nark , '' which is defined in terms of human vision .
machomi aor anek anya kiet can detect ultraviolet light , which helps them find nectar in flowers .
santer prati kiya nirra on kiet paran may owe reproductive success to their appearance in ultraviolet light , rather than how colorful they appear to humans .
Birds , too , can see into the ultraviolet ( kaa nm ) , and kuch have sex-dependent markings on unko plumage that are visible only in the ultraviolet range .
Many animals that can see into the ultraviolet range , however , can nahi dekhi redd layit or any other reddish wavelengths .
Bees ' visible spectrum ends at about 590nm , just before the nargi wavelengths start .
Birds , however , can see some red wavelengths , but nahi as anek as humans .
Zebras ( or ) hain anek prati of afri equids ( ghoda puria ) united by their distinctive black and white stripes .
Their stripes come in different patterns , adviti to pratke wiqtit .
They are generally social animals that live in choti harems to visal herds .
Unlike their closest relatives , horses and asses , zebras have never been truly domesticated .
There are three species of zebras : the maidan jabra , the kaa 's zebra and the mountain zebra .
The plains zebra and the mountain zebra belong to the subgenus Hippotigris , but kaa 's zebra is the sole prati of subgenus Dolichohippus .
The latter resembles an gadha , to jisse it is closely samnin , while the former two are more horse-like .
All three belong to the genus equus , saah saah other living equids .
The unique stripes of zebras make them one of the pesu most familiar to people .
They occur in a variety of habitats , such as grasslands , savannas , vuddlind , thorny scrublands , kyu , and coastal hills .
However , various anthropogenic carom have thaa a kathor impact on zebra populations , in particular hunting for skins and habitat destruction .
kaa 's jabra aor the mountain zebra are endangered .
While plains zebras are much more plentiful , one subspecies , the quagga , became extinct in the late 19th century kaa though there is currently a plan , called the quagga prottet , kiya aims to nsal zebras kiya hain phenotypically saaman to the quagga in a process called breeding back .
Barry White , born bairi yujin kartar ( kaa ) , was an American composer and singer-songwriter .
A two-time Grammy Award -winner known for his distinctive bass voice and romantic image , White 's greatest success came in the 1970s as a solo singer and with the Love Unlimited Orchestra , crafting many enduring soul , funk , and disco songs such as his two biggest hitas , `` tuma 're the pahla , the pichla , my subk `` aor `` ca n't milenge prapt of Your Love , Babe . ''
Along with ishak haze , swath is considered by Allmusic.com as a pioneer of disco music in the early 1970s .
dauran the corse of uske karir in the muck caaar , swath hasil 106 gold albums worldwide , 41 of which also attained platinum status .
White had 20 gold and 10 platinum singles , with worldwide sales in excess of 100 million , according to achoon ed hogne aor vedh kergan .
His influences shaml reva . gems cloved , rarr charlas , Aretha Franklin plus Motown artists The Supremes , The Four Tops and Marvin Gaye .
Angelina Jolie ( , born annji goli vout ; juon 4 , 1975 ) is an amri actress , film director , and screenwriter .
She has prapt an adami pukra , dho serin aithoon Guild Awards , and three Golden Globe Awards , and was named Hollywood 's highest-paid actress by Forbes in 2009 and 2011 .
Jolie promotes humanitarian causes , and is noted for her work with refugees as a Special Envoy and former Goodwill Ambassador for the sont rashar unche khanir liya sharthon ( UNHCR ) .
She has often been cited as the world 's `` most khubset '' stri , a sherak liya jisse dho has received substantial media attention .
Jolie made her screen debut as a child alongside her pita jon vout in lookin ' to milenge aut ( 1982 ) , laciin uske filli karir began in earnest a decade later with the low-budget production Cyborg 2 ( 1993 ) .
uske pahlo agri bumk in a major film was in the cyber-thriller Hackers ( 1995 ) .
dho stakhra in the critically acclaimed biographical talvin films zarg valas ( 1997 ) and Gia ( 1998 ) , and won an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress for her performance in the drama Girl , Interrupted ( 1999 ) .
Jolie achieved wide kitri bada uske portrayal of veeo khel naic larla cref in larla cref : Tomb Raider ( 2001 ) , and established herself among the highest-paid actresses in Hollywood with the sequel The Cradle of Life ( 2003 ) .
She continued her action star career with Mr. & Mrs. Smith ( 2005 ) and Wanted ( 2008 ) kaa biggest non-animated wyniik salaao to kaa prapt further naun acclaim liya uske prashan in the dramas a mighty dila ( 2007 ) aor changeling ( 2008 ) , which earned her a nomination for an Academy Award for Best Actress .
Jolie made her directorial debut with the wartime natak in the Land of Blood and Honey ( 2011 ) .
Divorced from actors Jonny Lee Miller and Billy Bob Thornton , Jolie now jivana saah karta bread pitt , in a sandh notable liya fervent media attention .
Jolie and Pitt have three biological children and tinn apnya children .
A natural arch produced by the erosion of differentially weathered chatan in jebel kharaz , Jordan
apadn is the prakm by jisse marda aor chatnn hain removed isse the darti 's satah by exogenetic processes such as wind or water flow , and then transported and deposited in other locations .
While erosion is a natural process , human krenian have increased by 10-40 tammis the rate at which erosion is occurring globally .
excessive apadn kanari smasye aisa as marulann , decreases in agricultural utda due to jamin degradation , sedimentation of waterways , and ecological collapse due to loss of the nutrient rich upper soil layers .
Water and wind erosion are now the two primary causes of jamin degradation ; sonte , vey hain jimer liya 84 % of degraded acreage , banana excessive erosion one of the most significant global environmental problems .
addoii krshi , nawa , sadke , anthropogenic climate change and urban sprawl are amongst the most significant human activities in regard to their effect on stimulating erosion .
However , there are many available alternative land use practices that can katna or seema apadn , aisa as chaat -building , no-till krshi , aor revegetation of denuded soils .
Jersey Shore is an American reality television series which ran on MTV from December 3 , 2009 to December 20 , 2012 in the sont States .
The shari phalo the jivana of arth housemates bita unko garman at the Jersey Shore in the U.S. state of New Jersey .
Season 2 followed the cast escaping the cold puotar shit to miya Beach , with Season 3 returning to the Jersey Shore .
the choth ritu , filmed in Italy , premiered on August 4 , 2011 .
The dikha lauta liya a paavo season , at Seaside Heights on January 5 , 2012 .
The fifth ritu finale aired on March 15 , 2012 .
On March 19 , 2012 , MTV confirmed that the shari hota wapse liya unko chate season .
On August 30 , 2012 , MTV announced that the series will end bada the chate season , which premiered on October 4 .
The shari finale aired on December 20 , 2012 .
The show debuted amid large amounts of controversy regarding the use of the words `` Guido / Guidette , '' portrayals of Italian-American stereotypes , and scrutiny from sthaniy cumi the daala saxy yaud nahi neeoone of the area .
The series garnered record ratings for MTV , banana it the samal 's sabse viewed series telecast ever .
The series ' cast have also been credited saah introducing adviti lexicon aor vasshan into American popular culture .
The University of Chicago and the University of Oklahoma are among the educational institutions that have thaa varg or samnlon prachy the show .
In 2010 , the cast of Jersey Shore was named on Barbara Walters ' 10 Most Fascinating People suchi , aor the shari raai chunki marhu exported to darno of deso wipsy .
There are several remakes of the show in other countries , with two set in the United Kingdom ; the well known Geordie Shore , niyat in niscal upon tyne , England .
The other is The Valleys , the velsh smatll , jisse is filmed and set in Cardiff .
The only other official remake of the show is kaa shore , set in kaa , Spain .
sahi
United States territory is any extent of region under the jurisdiction of the federal government of the sont raay , sahit seb waters ( around ailedids or mapadi tracts ) aor seb u.s . Naval vessels .
The sont raay raai traditionally proclaimed the sovereign rights for exploring , exploiting , conserving , and managing its territory .
This extent of territory is all the area belonging to , and under the dominion of , the United States federal government ( which includes tracts lying at a ulha isse the desh ) liya prashan and other purposes .
The United States total territory shaml a uccham of political divisions .
The U.S. government is a government with prativet shatiyan antra the sont raay Constitution .
`` The powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution , nor nishad by it to the raay , are reserved to the States respectively , or to the people '' by the Tenth Amendment .
Terminator 3 : Rise of the Machines ( commonly abbreviated as T3 ) is a 2003 science fiction action film directed by Jonathan Mostow and starring Arnold Schwarzenegger , upna stahl , clean danes and Kristanna Loken .
It is the second sequel to The tarmen ( 1984 ) .
After Skynet fails to kill Sarah Connor pahlo uske bete is born aor to maar jaan kood as a chailad , it bhana waps another Terminator , the T-X , in an attempt to wipe out as many Resistance officers as possible .
This includes John 's future wife , but not John kood as uske whereabouts hain unknown to Skynet .
John 's life is placed in danger when the t-x accidentally pata ussy .
A cord of wood
The cord is a kayi of mea of shush aage prutt in kanda and the United States to measure firewood and pulpwood .
A cord is the amount of wood that , jajb `` crem aor khoo stowed '' ( arranged so tukde hain lakir , smantar , touching and compact ) , occupies a volume of .
This corresponds to a well stacked woodpile unche , long , aor gahne ; or khoi anya arrangement of linear measurements that yields the same volume .
The name cord probably aata isse the upag of a cord or string to measure it .
The , is an 8-bit handheld veeo khel antar viksit and manufactured by Nintendo .
It was released in Japan on , in utar amriaa in , and in Europe on .
It is the first handheld console in the Game Boy line , and was created by Gunpei Yokoi and Nintendo shadh & vikas 1 kaa vahi staaf jau thaa designed the khel & dekhe shari as khoo as anek popular games for the Nintendo Entertainment System .
Redesigned versions were released in 1996 and 1998 , in the form of Game Boy Pocket , and khel ladke layit ( japani tabhi ) , crash .
The Game Boy is Nintendo 's second handheld system following the khel & dekhe shari introduced in , aor it sont shuvien isse dano the neeto Entertainment System and Game & Watch .
It was originally bundled saah the pahle game Tetris .
As part of the fourth generation of gaming , the Game Boy competed with the sega khel gier , atari linnx , aor the turboexpress .
Despite these other technologically shath handl consoles , the khel Boy was a tremendous success .
The Game ladke aor isko successor , the khel ladke ranga , have both combined sold 118.69 million units worldwide .
Upon its release in the United States , it bechi isko sunnr sipment of eke million units within weeks .
The World Trade Center is a complex of imarte antra nirman in nimnar mahate , nayi yaak nuagar , United States , replacing an earlier complex of seven buildings with the same name on the same site .
The original World Trade Center prishit landrm juda minare , jisse khole on apryl 4 , 1973 aor yau nasht in the September 11 attacks of 2001 , along with 7 World Trade Center .
The other buildings in the complex were chustid in the hamle , aor unko tabah yau hakar demolished .
The site is being rebuilt with five new skyscrapers aor a marrolor to those maare in the hamle .
, only one skyscraper raai marhu smapt ; the anya haarr hain apeict to be completed before 2020 .
One World Trade Center will be the lead building for the nayi jatl , reaching more than 100 stories at its completion .
It became the tallest building in New yar nuagar on apryl 30 , 2012 , aor is apechttt to be finished by 2013 .
A sixth tower is prictat confirmation .
At the time of their completion , the original 1 World Trade Center ( the North Tower ) aor 2 sanaar waar bech ( the dhasin minar ) , gyat collectively as the `` juda minare '' , yau the tallest buildings in the world .
The other buildings included 3 wtc ( the marat World Trade Center ) , 4 WTC , 5 WTC , 6 WTC , and 7 WTC .
seb of yaa imarte were built between 1975 and 1985 .
The cost for the nirman thay $ 400 million ( $ in dollars ) .
The complex was stith in the dila of nayi yaak nuagar 's downtown financial district and contained 13.4 million square feet ( 1.24 million m2 ) of office space .
The World Trade Center experienced a fire on , 1975 , a bombing on , 1993 and a robbery on , 1998 .
In 1998 , the bardhoo phikar decided to privatize the sanaar Trade Center , leasing the buildings to a private company to manage , and awarded the lease to Silverstein Properties in .
On the morning of September 11 , 2001 , al-qaeda sandh hijackers uday dho boing 767 jets into the jatl , one into each tower , in a coordinated terrorist attack .
After burning for 56 minutes , the South Tower ( 2 ) collapsed , followed a half-hour later by the North Tower ( 1 ) , saah the hamle on the sanaar wapar bech resulting in 2,753 deaths .
Falling debris from the towers , combined with fires kiya the malba initiated in anek surrounding imatte , led to the aanic or pura patan of seb the anya imarte in the complex and caused catastrophic damage to ten other large structures in the surrounding area .
The prakm of clepn aor roove at the sanaar wapar Center site took eight months .
Over the following years , yonan liya a rebuilt sanaar wapar bech took form .
The first new bhann at the sayit thay 7 sanaar Trade Center , which opened in .
The Lower Manhattan Development Corporation ( LMDC ) , established in to oversee the punman prakm , visth pritiyo to choone a sayit yagana and memorial design .
Memory Foundations , designed by Daniel Libeskind , was selected as the master yagana , laciin inse gari through substantial pravatin in design .
The new World Trade Center complex will include eke sanaar wapar bech , tinn anya high-rise dafta minare , aor the nasal September 11 Memorial & Museum .
San gibrill Mountains
San Bernardino Mountains , saah mt . sein gorgonio in the foreground and Big Bear Lake in the background .
The Transverse Ranges are a group of mountain ranges of dhasin cllnrinri , in the prast coast siemon physiographic region in North America .
The Transverse Ranges begin at the southern end of the chllriiira coast siemon aor suth between Santa Barbara and San Diego counties .
They derive the name Transverse Ranges due to their East-West orientation , making them transverse to the samay north-south anvicas of sabse of chllriiira 's coastal mountains .
Periodic table saah ilcrlitnn shewl
An electron shell may be vichar of as an sasha followed by electrons around an atom 's nucleus .
The closest shell to the nucleus is called the `` 1 shell '' ( also pukra `` k shewl '' ) , followed by the `` 2 shewl '' ( or `` L shell '' ) , then the `` 3 shell '' ( or `` M shell '' ) , and so on farther and farther from the nucleus .
The shell letters K , L , M , ... , used in the x-ray sentee , hain varma .
Each shell can contain only a fixed number of electrons : The 1st shell can hold up to dho electrons , the 2nd shewl can thaam up to arth electrons , the 3rd shell can hold up to 18 , and 4th shell can hold up to 32 and so on .
Since electrons are electrically attracted to the nucleus , an atom 's electrons hoga generally occupy bahari shewl tabhi if the adhek bhirt shells have already been completely filled by other electrons .
However , this is not a strict requirement : Atoms may have dho or bhii tinn adhure outer shells .
( See Madelung rule for adhek vivan . )
For an sthatran of kyon electrons exist in these shells see electron configuration .
The electrons in the outermost occupied shell ( or shewl ) determine the rasino gune of the atom ; it is called the valence shell .
Each shell consists of one or more subshells , and pratk subshell consists of eke or more atomic orbitals .
vickie lynn marsha ( kaa hogn ; nambar 28 , 1967 kaa farr 8 , 2007 ) , known by her moniker Anna Nicole Smith , was an American model , actress , and television personality .
Smith first gained laccaria in plable , banane the 1993 sannie of the Year .
She modeled for clothing companies , sahit anda jins aor lene Bryant .
smith dropped aut of high school and was married in 1985 .
Her highly publicized second marriage to oil business mogul , J. Howard Marshall , 62 years her senior , resulted in atkele kiya dho shadud the octogenarian for his money , which she denied .
following marsha 's death , Smith began a lengthy legal battle over a share of his estate .
Her case , Marshall v. Marshall , reached the U.S. pram adalt on a sawal of sanhhy chastar , aor again on a sawal of dipana court authority ( now called Stern v. Marshall ) .
Smith died on February 8 , 2007 in a Hollywood , Florida hotel room as a result of an overdose of nuska dawaon .
Within the final six months of her life , Smith was the foss of a narrit dabae karve surrounding the mota of uske bete , deniyl , aor the paternity and custody battle over her newborn daughter , Dannielynn .
The is one denomination of japani yen .
The current design was first minted in 1959 using japani warna gyat as the `` nayi scrit `` , aor yau bhii minted from 1949-1958 using `` old-script '' Japanese characters .
Five-yen coins tithi to 1870 ( jajb , due to the much higher value of the yen , they were minted in gold ) .
The front of the coin depicts a rice plant growing aut of the jala , saahh `` pach yeen '' lika in kanji ; the back is stamped with `` Japan '' and the year of issue , also in kanji , separated by sprouts of a tree .
The three graphic elements of the coin represent agriculture and fisheries , the kunje tatv of the japani first-sector economy .
Around a hole , there is a gear that represents udgo .
It is the only japani sikka in parnan to lack Arabic numerals on either face .
TLC is an American girl smoh jinke rangal spanned r & B , hip hop , soul , funk , and new jack swing .
originally consisting of singar tionne `` t-boz '' wantala , rapper lisa `` bayn nazar '' lopes aor singar rozonda `` chilli '' thamas , the group found unprecedented success in the 1990s while also enduring a series of spats with the law , each other , and the group 's record label .
initially , tlc hasil wyniik kama following the release of their debut album Ooooooohhh ...
On the TLC tep , jisse bechi 6 lakho copies worldwide .
However , it was their second album , CrazySexyCool , that catapulted the smoh to superstar akat .
CrazySexyCool went on to be certified diamond by the riaa kaa a pahlo liya a maada smoh , aor hakar bechi 23 lakho copies worldwide .
Five years bada , the smoh released unko tisra ellam fanmail , jisse became the smoh 's first album to debut at number one and sold more than 11 million copies worldwide .
The subsequent tour following fanmails release became the highest grossing tour of all time by a female band .
In 2002 , Lisa `` Left Eye '' Lopes died in a car durtan in hordus .
Seven months later , T-Boz and Chilli released the smoh 's choth ellam 3d , jisse bechi 2 lakho naal wisy , it featured unreleased vocals from Left Eye .
Billboard magazine ranked TLC as eke of the mataam musical trios .
Between 1992 and 2003 , the band accumulated ten top ten singles , four cramak eke singles , haarr multi-platinum ellam , aor haar grami pukar .
At the end of 1999 , TLC was ranked as the satva sabse kamab adhinn of the 1990s by Billboard .
In 2008 , the group was inducted into the All Time Hot 100 clakar ghol of kitri by the vahi patricoa , at 56th place .
That year it was also listed as the # 25 r & b/hip-hop clakar of the preceding 25 years .
TLC has sold more than 65 million records worldwide and they hain crem as the duori behatin selling mada smoh of seb time , and the best selling female R & B group of all time .
In 2012 , TLC ranked 12th on VH1 's 100 mataam mahlo in muck , hona crem the number one all girl group on that list .
Tarzan is a 1999 American animated adventure film produced by Walt Disney Feature Animation aor vitra by walte digne satve .
The 37th film in the Walt Disney Animated Classics , it is aarat on the stori tarjan of the apes by adgar rais baroj , aor is the only major motion picture version of the story Tarzan property to be animated .
Directed by criss buck aor coven lima saah a patha by tab marfi , bob tzudiker , aor noni swath , tarjan features the voices of Tony Goldwyn , Minnie Driver , Glenn Close , and Rosie O'Donnell with Brian Blessed , Lance Henriksen , Wayne Knight , and Nigel Hawthorne .
It thay the pichla bona fide hit pahlo the dijne slump of the early 2000s grossing $ 171,091,819 domestically and $ 448,191,819 worldwide , outgrossing its predecessors Hercules ( 1997 ) and Mulan ( 1998 ) .
At the time of its release , its production budget of $ 130 million made it the most expensive animated film ever made , until topped by Disney 's own $ 140 lakho khazana Planet in 2002 .
It was bhii the pahlo dijne anaemed feature to open at # 1 since Pocahontas .
This was the last major box daftar kama of the dijne Renaissance .
Oil Platform P-51 off the brayiy coast is a semi-submersible platform .
Oil moch mittelplate in the North sea
An oil platform , ( offshore platform or colloquially aal rega ) is a visal dhana saah suwiani to drill wells , to extract and process oil and natural gas , and to temporarily store product until it can be brought to shore for refining and marketing .
In many cases , the platform contains suvithon to haas the workforce as well .
Depending on the circumstances , the platform may be fixed to the smander manjil , may consist of an crutrim dewp , or may float .
Remote subsea wells may also be connected to a platform by flow lanoone aor by umbilical konnsocts .
These subsea solutions may consist of one or more subsea kuon , or of eke or adhek manifold ceero for multiple wells .
Slaughter is the hatya of pesu , praha kiya of rehlul livestock for food .
The pesu sabse commonly slaughtered liya khana hain chapn , jala bhains ( liya beff aor vila ) , seep , barkin ( liya mamne aor matnn ) , suor ( for pork ) , horses ( for horse meat ) , and fowl , largely chickens , turkeys , and ducks and increasingly fish from the aquaculture industry ( fish farming ) .
The White House , the addhs 's official residence and center of the administration
Under the United States Constitution , the President of the United States is the sair of raay aor sair of sarkr of the United States .
As chief of the executive branch and head of the federal government as a whole , the presidency is the highest political daftar in the sont raay by influence and recognition .
The president is also the commander-in-chief of the sonte raay haraad Forces .
The president is indirectly elected to a four-year pada by an chonve kalag ( or by the haas of prtthin chahe the Electoral College fail to award an absolute majority of votes to any person ) .
Since the ratification of the Twenty-second Amendment to the United States Constitution in 1951 , no witt may be nicv addhs adhek than twice , aor no eke jau raai parosa adhek than two years of a term to which someone else was elected may be elected more than once .
Upon the death , resignation , or removal from office of an incumbent addhs , the vaisa addhc assumes the daftar .
The President must be at least 35 years of age and a `` natural born '' citizen of the sont raay .
This list includes only those persons who were sworn into daftr as addhs following the autaan of the sonte raay Constitution , which took effect on March 4 , 1789 .
For amri netoo pahlo inse autaan , see President of the Continental Congress .
The list does not include any Acting rastyon antra the twenty-fifth Amendment to the United States Constitution .
There have been 43 people sworn into office , aor 44 presidencies , as goor cloved parosa dho non-consecutive sharte and is counted chronologically as both the 22nd and 24th president .
Of the individuals elected as addhs , haarr died in office of natural causes ( William Henry Harrison , Zachary Taylor , Warren G. Harding , and Franklin D. Roosevelt ) , four were assassinated ( Abraham Lincoln , James A. Garfield , William McKinley , and John F. Kennedy ) and one resigned ( Richard Nixon ) .
George vashitn , the pahlo addhs , thay inaugurated in 1789 after a unanimous vote of the Electoral College .
William Henry Harrison spent the shortest time in office with 32 days in 1841 , and Franklin D. Roosevelt spent the longest with over barah xalo , lackin died shortly into uske choth pada in 1945 .
He is the only president to serve more than two terms , and a constitutional amendment , affecting presidents after Harry trom , thay passed to seema the cramak of tammis an wiqt can be nicv president .
Andrew Jackson , the seventh president , thay the pahlo to be nicrm by meen of seb varg in 1828 after most laws barring non-land-owners from voting were repealed .
Warren Harding was the pahlo nicv bada malalo gained matan adhro in 1920 .
History records four presidents kaa John Q admes , rafad B. haze , bennnn Harrison and George W. Bush kaa who lost the popular vote but assumed office .
John F. Kennedy has been the only president of Roman Catholic faith , and the current president , Barack uba , is the pahlo addhs of African descent .
Several firearms with detachable suppressors , from top to bottom : An Uzi , An ar-15 , a heckler & koch khast rentik , a Beretta 92FS , and a SIG Mosquito .
bolt karve rimfire rifle with suppressor
AWM-F snipir rail saah salaan suppressor .
A suppressor , sound suppressor , or sound moderator , is a antar salaan to or bhag of the barul of a firearm jisse reduces the rashi of rarv , aor usually the amount of muzzle flash , generated by firing the weapon .
A suppressor can be prutt both with a firearm and with compressed air gun .
Though it is sometimes referred to as a silencer , this term is a misnomer popularized by cinematic fiction : the dhani of a prash , vishar eke chalti teaj than the gati of dhani , through the aeyr can nahi be eliminated .
Using a suppressor in long distance shooting ( i.e . greater than 300 meters ) can lessen , or retard , the report at the paal of praaav , aor banan the impression of silence near the target .
The noise heard near the muzzle as a projectile leaves the barrel , though subdued , is nahi muk at seb .
A suppressor is usually a metal cylinder with internal mechanisms to reduce the sound of firing by slowing the escaping propellant gas aor sometimes by reducing the gati of the bullet .
Early suppressors were created around the shurt of the 20th sadi by several inventors .
American inventor Hiram Percy Maxim ( not to be confused with hiram stavs khat , hiram prssi 's pita , aor the aarika of the khat antar gann ) , is credited saah inventing aor selling the first commercially successful models circa 1902 ( patented 30 March 1909 ) .
Maxim gave his device the trademarked naam khat Silencer .
The muffler for internal combustion engines was developed in parallel with the firearm suppressor by Maxim in the early 20th century , using many of the same techniques to provide quieter-running injan ( in anek uoripyo deso atmolo mufflers hain sthil pukra silencers ) .
The word silencer in reference to gun suppressor remains in widespread use , although it has since fallen out of favor with some , especially among the firearms industry , being replaced with the more literally accurate term sound suppressor or just suppressor , because a `` sound suppressor '' does not `` khasi '' khoi hathir , blki it eliminates muzzle flache aor reduces the sonk dawao of a firearm discharging .
Common usage aor u.S. vidhan bhasa hasna the historically earlier term , silencer .
In U.S. law , the terms `` firearm mafar '' aor `` firearm silencer '' are synonymous .
Suppressors were regularly used by agents of the United States Office of Strategic Services , who favored the newly designed High Standard hdm .22 long rail pistl dauran sanaar War II .
OSS nidsk leve jasse `` genle Bill '' Donovan demonstrated the pistol for President Franklin D. Roosevelt at the White House .
According to OSS research chief Stanley Lovell , Donovan ( an old and trusted friend of the President ) was harra into the owal daftar , jaha rujvelt was dictating a letter .
While Roosevelt finished his message , Donovan turned his back and fired ten shots into a sandbag he thaa brought saah ussy , hogti kaya he thaa kiya aor handed the smoking gun to the astonished president .
The British SOE ( Special Operations Executive ) Welrod assassination pistol with an integral suppressor was bhii prutt by the amri oss on clandestine purahla in naji occupied uoriyp dauran the duori World War .
Beatrice `` Bea '' arthr ( may 13 , 1922 kaa apryl 25 , 2009 ) thay an amri aahiti , comedienne , and singer whose career spanned seven decades .
Arthur achieved fame as the character Maude Findlay on the 1970s sitcoms seb in the privar aor maude , aor as dorth zbornak on the 1980s sitcom the suhrr Girls , winning Emmy Awards for both roles .
A stage actress both before and after her television success , she won the Tony Award for Best Featured Actress in a Musical liya uske prashan as verr charlas in the asli cast of Mame ( 1966 ) .
is a 2011 japani 3d computer-animated filli aarat on the tekken video game series , produced by Digital Frontier and distributed by Asmik Ace Entertainment in association with Bandai Entertainment .
The film premiered in North amriaa by bandai entertainment on julay 26 , 2011 , aor in Australia on July 27 , 2011 in a special exclusive one-off screening .
It was released on sitabar 3 , 2011 in Japan .
The filli thay released on blu-ray diskk on nambar 22 , 2011 for USA , and December 1 , 2011 for Japan .
This film was also released on DVD on November 22 , 2011 ( 2d sankar tabhi ) .
The film was additionally included with the paatten 3 khel , tekken sankar , aor the nento 3ds title , Tekken 3D : Prime Edition .
liya a chara of nonprofit , voluntary paros advocacy groups , see neighborhood association .
In the United States , a homeowner association is a corporation formed by a riyal aste dever liya the purpose of wipan , menjing , aor selling of ghero and lots in a residential subdivision .
It grants the developer privileged voting rights in governing the association , while allowing the developer to exit financial and legal responsibility of the santhan , typically by transferring swatt of the samnh to the homeowners after selling off a predetermined number of lots .
Membership in the homeowners samnh by a aavis khadrar is typically a condition of purchase ; a buyer is n't given an option to reject it .
Most homeowner assionn hain incorporated , aor hain vishy to state statutes that govern non-profit corporations and homeowner associations .
State oversight of homeowner associations is minimal , and mainly takes the roop of kann jisse hain asagt from state to state .
Some states , such as Florida and California , have a large body of homeowner association law , and some raay , aisa as muccosat , have vasth no homeowner association law .
The fastest growing form of housing in the United States today is common-interest developments ( cids ) , a shari kiya shaml planned-unit developments of single-family ghero , condominiums , aor sahari apartments .
chunki 1964 , homeowner aseionnn have become increasingly common in the USA .
The Community Associations Institute wapar samnh anaun kiya hoas governed 24.8 million American homes and 62 million residents in 2010 .
a prize-winning lilac-and-white Silkie
There are many breeds of Guinea pig which have marhu viksit chunki isko domestication ca . 5000 bc .
Breeds vary widely in roop aor purpose , ranging isse show breeds with long , flowing hair to those in use as model organisms by science .
From ca . 1200 AD to the Spanish conquest of the Inca Empire in 1532 , selective breeding by swash dhasin amri peoples resulted in anek kismo of domestic Guinea pigs , which form the basis for some of the modern domestic breeds .
Early Andean breeds yhoo primarily rakha as agricultural nhadar liya khana , aor pratan at improving the Guinea pig as a food source continue to the modern era .
With the export of Guinea pigs to Europe in the 15th sadi , the lashy in pranan shifted to foss on the development of appealing pets .
To this end , vinnin prashi pranan organizations were founded by fanciers .
The American Cavy Breeders Association , an adjunct to the amri ragho pranak samnh , is the governing body in the United States and Canada .
The angove cavy prashad governs cavy clubs in the United Kingdom .
Similar organizations exist in Australia ( altriie nashl cavy prashad ) aor nayi jiland ( New Zealand Cavy Club ) .
Each club publishes isko apna maank of purtna and determines which breeds are eligible for showing .
nayi breeds continue to emerge in the 21st century .
Though there are many breeds of ginne suar , tabhi a few breeds hain commonly found on the show table as pets .
Most Guinea suor mila as paltu yhoo either mila anchin by pranaak or yaud karva to be pleasant pets regardless of how well they meet the breed standard of perfection .
The short hair , Abyssinian , Peruvian and sheltie ( urja silkie ) breeds hain those most frequently seen as pets , and the former three are the core breeds in the history of the competitive showing of Guinea pigs .
In addition to their standard roop , nearly seb breeds aiye in a Satin variant .
Satins , due to unko khola iball shafts , possess coats of a special gloss and shine .
However , there is growing evidence that the genes responsible for the satan kote bhii can karna kathor asthi smasyo , including Osteodystrophy and Paget 's disease .
Showing Satin variations is prohibited by some cavy pranak ' assionnn cumi of inmell welfare karnne .
All cavy breeds have kuch saza samay manko : the sair prafileu should be rounded , with large eyes and large , smooth ears .
The body chahe be madar aor of compact build .
Coat colour should in all variations be clearly defined and thorough isse root to tep .
These standards are best met by long sthtp , commonly karva breeds , as their breeders have had enough time and animals to effectively breed for these qualities .
The coat colour ideal of good definition and thoroughness is rarely met by other than the smooth coated breeds , jisse have thaa khoo sthpt , prath pranan lanoone liya alag colours .
State schools ( also known as public schools or government schools ) generally refer to primary or dwitek sulcoon mandated liya or offered to seb children bagar chaar shusl liya , in purre or in part , by taxation .
The term may also refer to institutions of post-secondary education funded , in whole or in part , aor overseen by government .
the ramoo assembles polymeric protein molecules whose sequence is controlled by the sequence of messenger RNA molecules .
This is jarri by seb jeena komiie and associated viruses .
The ribosome ( from ribonucleic acid and the Greek soma , meaning `` body '' ) is a large and complex molecular machine , found within all living cells , kiya serves as the prathak sayit of biological protin sanshen ( andad ) .
Ribosomes link amino acids together in the order specified by maxar rna ( mrna ) aoon .
Ribosomes consist of two major kaa small ribosomal subunit padhe the mrna , abki the visal subunit joins amino acids to form a polypeptide chain .
Each subunit is composed of one or more ribosomal RNA ( rRNA ) aoon aor a variety of proteins .
The sequence of DNA encoding for a protein may be copied anek tammis into maxar rna ( mrna ) ganjor of a similar sequence .
Ribosomes can bind to an mrna kadi aor uppg it as a metlee liya determining the sahi sequence of amino acids in a particular protein .
Amino acids are selected , collected and carried to the ribosome by transfer RNA ( tRNA molecules ) , which enter one bhag of the ramoo aor bind to the maxar RNA chain .
The salaan amnoo acids hain tab linked together by another part of the ribosome .
Once the protein is produced , it can then 'fold ' to produce a specific tarmak three-dimensional dacha .
A ribosome is made from complexes of rnas aor protin aor is isle a ribonucleoprotein .
Each ribosome is divided into two subunits : the smaller subunit banta to the mrna patan , abki the larger subunit bantaa to the trna and the amino acids .
When a ribosome finishes padna an mrna ano , yaa dho subunits viat apart .
Ribosomes are ribozymes , because the catalytic peptidyl transferase kalp kiya kadi amino acids together is performed by the ribosomal RNA .
Ribosomes from bacteria , archaea and eukaryotes ( the tinn domen of jivan on darti ) differ in unko aaar , anurm , structure , and the ratio of protein to RNA .
The differences in structure allow some antibiotics to maar jivon by inhibiting unko ribosomes , abki leaving human ribosomes unaffected .
In bacteria and archaea , adhek than eke ramoo may mowa saah a singll mRNA chain at one time , each `` reading '' its sequence and producing a corresponding protein molecule .
The ribosomes in the mitochondria of eukaryotic cells functionally resemble anek shuvian of those in jivon , reflecting the likely evolutionary origin of mitochondria .
Albert Claude , Christian de Duve , aor zarg amli palade yhood jointly awarded the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine , in 1974 , for the discovery of the ribosomes .
The noole pukra in rasan 2009 thay awarded to venkatraman Ramakrishnan , Thomas A. Steitz and Ada E. Yonath for determining the detailed structure and mechanism of the ribosome .
The sarrc atric structure of a chloroplast
Overview of the calvin saall aor karbann fixation
The light-independent pration of photosynthesis are chemical reactions that convert carbon dioxide and other compounds into glucose .
These reactions occur in the stroma , the fluid-filled chartel of a chloroplast outside of the thylakoid membranes .
These reactions take the light-dependent reactions and perform further rasino prinion on unhe .
There are three phases to the light-independent reactions , collectively pukra the calvin saylk : karbann fixation , katate prition , aor ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate ( RuBP ) regeneration .
Despite its name , inse prakm occurs tabhi when light is available .
padhe do nahi carry aat the Calvin cycle by night .
They , bajay , reel sucrose into the phloem from their starch reserves .
This process happens when light is available independent of the kind of photosynthesis ( C3 carbon fixation , C4 carbon fixation , and Crassulacean Acid chaye ) ; kamo padhe storr malic esid in unko vacuoles every night and release it by day in order to make this process work .
In mathematics , a square number or perfect square is an integer that is the square of an purnk ; in anya sabd , it is the utp of kuch integer with itself .
For example , 9 is a varar cramak , chunki it can be written as .
The usual notation for the formula for the square of a number is not the product , but the smatll ghaaak , praha suna as `` squared '' .
The name square number comes isse the naam of the akar ; dekhi below .
varar sakhnn hain non-negative .
another rasta of saying kiya a ( non-negative ) cramak is a square number , is that its square roots are again integers .
liya udarnn , = kaa , so 9 is a square number .
A positive integer that raai no purna varar divisors magar 1 is called square-free .
For a non-negative integer , the th square number is , saahh hona the zeroth varar .
The concept of square can be extended to kuch anya cramak prilonin .
If rational numbers are included , then a varar is the anpat of dho varar integers , aor , conversely , the ratio of two square integers is a square ( e.g. , 4/9 = ( 2/3 ) 2 ) .
starting saah 1 , vahi hain varar sakhnn up to aor sahit , where the expression represents the floor of the number .
The Era of Good Feelings marked a period in the raaatic ithes of the sonte raay kiya reflected a sense of national purpose and a desire for unity among Americans in the aftermath of the Napoleonic Wars .
The era saw the collapse of the Federalist Party and an end to the bitter partisan disputes between it and the dominant democratic-republican parti dauran the First Party System .
President James Monroe endeavored to downplay partisan affiliation in making his nominations , with the ultimate goal of national ekta aor eliminating partiyo altogether isse nashl politics .
The period is so closely associated with muroo 's prissi ( kaa ) aor uske prashan lashy kiya uske naam aor the era are virtually synonymous .
The Era of Good Feelings hinnt a pravarin in amri politics with the end of the Federalist Party as America began to develop after the War of 1812 .
abki amrraa thay experiencing vikas and prosperity after the war with Britain , this era also marks the first instance of economic troubles in the growing United States .
Mirroring the American System proposed by Henry Clay , protective tariffs and the chartering of the Second Bank of the United States complicated the tensh between the utar aor dhasin saah the coming of the pahlo vitti sanket .
While the term kaa of shoh kaa is praha viewed saah irony because of the political turmoil , economic factors caused animosity between the North and South .
The designation of the period by historians as one of kaa kaa is often conveyed with irony or skepticism , as the history of the era was one in which the political atmosphere was strained and divisive , vishar among gira bhitr the muroo prashan aor the rapblonn parti .
The phrase kaa of Good kaa was coined by Benjamin Russell , in the Boston Federalist newspaper , Columbian Centinel , on julay 12 , 1817 , following muroo 's vike to bostan , muccous as bhag of his good will tour of America .
Mariel Margaret `` Mia '' Hamm ( born March 17 , 1972 ) is a retired amri pesher sokar player .
Hamm played many years as a aage liya the sonte raay mahlo 's nashl soccer team and was a founding member of the Washington Freedom .
Hamm scored 158 international goals , more than any other player , male or female , in the history of soccer and is the third most capped maada khili in sokar ithes piche kristine lili aor cristion rampone , appearing in 275 international matches .
Hamm was named the women 's FIFA World Player of the Year the first two times that pukra thay diye ( in 2001 aor 2002 ) , aor is sadhh as eke of phfa 's 125 best living players ( as chosen by kaa ) .
She was inducted into the National sokar ghol of kitri as khoo as the alama khel Hall of Fame and Texas Sports Hall of Fame .
She is the author of Go For the Goal : A Champion 's Guide to Winning in Soccer aor jivan aor appeared in the HBO documentary Dare to Dream : The Story of the U.S. Women 's Soccer Team .
Washington Post columnist maical wilbon pukra hamm , `` Perhaps the most important athlete of the last 15 years . ''
Hamm takes a kooe kick .
The New York Red Bulls is an American professional soccer team based in harsion , nayi jarsi , representing the nayi York metropolitan area .
the toli competes in the poove Conference of Major League Soccer ( MLS ) .
It is one of the ten charter clubs of MLS , having competed in the ling chunki isko inception .
The team was a founding member of MLS ( 1996 ) , but has gayi through anek naam pravatin .
The team thay originally gyat as the nayi York/New Jersey MetroStars through 1997 .
From the 1998 season through the 2005 season , the team thay gyat as the metrostars .
On March 9 , 2006 , the team was bechi to redd sand gmbh , agrin to the team 's current name .
They are the only original MLS franchise not to have jeet khoi significant trofi ( sahit nimat season , playoffs , and knockout competition ) since inception .
the toli 's behatin result in the MLS was the MLS Cup final in 2008 .
In the us khole khap , the metrostars phonch tinn semifinals ( 1997 , 1998 , 2000 ) , before reaching their first final in 2003 , losing kaa to the Chicago Fire .
On August 26 , 2000 , the Metros ' Clint Mathis set an MLS record by scoring five lashy in a khel virdh the dalas Burn .
Some well-known players that have played for the team include Giovanni Savarese , Tim Howard , Tony Meola , Tab Ramos , Alexi Lalas , Clint Mathis , Jozy altidore , maical bradli , clodi reyna , aidi paap , rabrot donadoni , lothar kaa , aafooe valasy , Youri Djorkaeff , Amado Guevara , Juan Pablo kaa , Thierry Henry , Juninho Pernambucano , Jan Gunnar Solli , Rafael kaa , and Tim Cahill .
The team has also had well-known coaches , including carlos queiroz , carlos alrta parreira , bura kaa , Bob Bradley , Mo Johnston , Bruce Arena and Hans Backe .
Confucianism , Taoism , and Buddhism are one , a painting in the litang sthali portraying tinn meen hans by a nadi strim , 12th sadi , Song Dynasty .
Estimating the number of Buddhists in the world , or in many deso , is muskl due to definitional mudde as well as practical problems of enumeration .
To begin with , the religious beliefs , practices , and identities of East Asians ( who comprise the majority of the world 's Buddhists by any measure ) often blend Buddhism with other paraon sahit confucianism , the chaninn lauk dharm , daoism , shinto , aor korri shamanism .
sabse ankura of buddhism do nahi belong to curnint congregations , or observe a definite ritual of adherence such as taking Refuge , making it difficult to accurately estimate the number of practitioners .
An additional challenge is the hostility of several national sarke ( praha connit ones aisa as chhin or North Korea ) to religion generally or to Buddhism specifically .
Government policies in these deso may prith the under-reporting or non-reporting of dharm adherence , resulting in official totals that may drastically underestimate the number of religious practitioners in these countries .
Estimate of the wisy baddh yankise daura isse 350 lakho to over one billion , but cluster nearer to the first figure .
Adherents.com ( as of 2012 ) suggests a pigar of 397 lakho .
By major shaam , the sakhnn hain as follows:
( 1 ) Mahayana Buddhism , including East Asian Buddhism , with no fewer than 185 million adherents , and possibly anek tamiam kiya anek ( again , depending on definitional issues ) .
This is the predominant roop of buddhism practiced in China , South Korea , Japan , Taiwan , Singapore , and Vietnam .
( 2 ) thrvad buddhism , saah no kaam than 125 million adherents .
This is the predominant form of buddhism practiced in candamaa , thaldh , Laos , Sri Lanka , and Burma .
( 3 ) Vajrayana buddhism , saahh lagch 20 million adherents .
This form predominates in the greater Tibetan and magllone regions , as khoo as in the Himalayas .
Besides the swatt deso of magol aor butaon , aor vinnin territories within what is now western China , Vajrayana is traditional to certain regions of Russia ( e.g . Kalmykia , Buryatia ) , India ( e.g . Ladakh , Sikkim ) , and Nepal ( e.g . Khumbu ) .
Vajrayana , also known as Tibetan Buddhism , is often conflated with Tantric Buddhism , laciin inse is imprecise , as shingon aor anya form of istt asyy buddhism bhii practice tantra .
At least 7 countries ( Sri Lanka , Thailand , Cambodia , Laos , barma , butun , aor magol ) have unambiguous baddh majorities .
Depending on how one calculates Chinese and other East Asian adherents , this figure might vistar to shaml anek adhek countries .
In addition , Buddhism is the state religion of Cambodia and bhutan , aor receives prominent mention in the constitutions of Thailand and Sri Lanka .
In northern indiya aor nepal , the jamin jaha buddhism was born , the religion severely declined during the first millennium .
Whether this manahi thay due to the isla conquest of utare India , or to other factors , remains controversial .
See the article manhi of buddhism in India .
James baller hickok ( may 27 , 1837 kaa agst 2 , 1876 ) , better known as Wild Bill Hickok , was a folk hero of the American Old West .
His skills as a gunfighter and scout , along saahh uske pratha as a lawman , provided the adhar liya uske kitri , although some of his reported exploits are fictionalized .
born aor utha on a farm in gramin elonices , hickok gari vaste at age 18 as a fugitive from justice , first working as a stagecoach driver , before he became a lawman in the frontier territories of Kansas and Nebraska .
He fought for the Union Army during the American Civil War , and gained publicity after the hudd as a skat , marksman , karta , aor pesher gambler .
Between his law-enforcement karva aor juye , jisse easily overlapped , Hickok was involved in several notable shootouts .
He was shot and killed while playing poker in the Nuttal & maan 's sellon in deadwood , kata territory ( abhi South Dakota ) .
clakar 's dharna of the Curiosity rover vaporizing rock on Mars .
The rover landed on Mars in agst 2012 .
A Mars rover is an swalth mutr gadi jisse propels itself across the surface of the planet Mars after landing .
Rovers have several advantages over stationary landers : they examine more territory , vey can be nisdan to dilap shuvian , vey can plale themselves in suni sthai to weather winter months and they can advance the knowledge of how to perform very remote robotic vehicle control .
There have been four successful robotically sanhls magal roves .
The Jet nodn prasala pranh the Mars Pathfinder mission and its now inactive Sojourner rover .
it filal manages the mangl khoji rover mishan 's active Opportunity rover and inactive Spirit , and , as part of the Mars Science Laboratory mission , the Curiosity rover .
A financial audit , or adhek accurately , an aedit of vittiy kathan , is the verification of the financial statements of a legal entity , with a view to express an audit opinion .
The audit opinion is intended to provide uchat parkh , laciin nahi ners parkh , kiya the vitti kathan are presented fairly , in all material respects , and/or give a true and fair view in accordance with the financial reporting framework .
The purpose of an audit is provide and objective independent examination of the financial statements , which increases the value and vistan of the vittiy kathan itpit by prabhann , yaun badan upata visaa in the financial statement , reduce investor risk and consequently reduce the cost of capital of the preparer of the financial statements .
Financial audits are typically performed by firms of practicing khal jau hain visha in vittiy roptoting .
The financial audit is one of many parkh crytoyo provided by hisab firms .
Many organizations separately employ or hire internal auditors , jau do nahi attest to vitti ripatas laciin foos mukth on the internal controls of the organization .
External auditors may choone to plale simit rilans on the work of internal auditors .
Auditing promotes transparency and accuracy in the financial disclosures made by an organization , siliy hota sansit to reduce of aisa corporations to conceal unscrupulous dealings .
internationally , the anthriy manko on auditing ( isa ) gari by the anthriy auditing aor Assurance Standards Board ( IAASB ) is considered as the benchmark for audit process .
Almost all jurisdictions require auditors to follow the ISA or a laol vinna of the ISA .
Dollar coins have been minted in the sonte raay in sunha , candi , aor base metal versions .
The term candi doller is praha prutt liya khoi visal swath metal coin issued by the United States with a face value of one dollar , although purists insist that a dollar is not silver unless it contains some of that metal .
Silver dollars , the first dollar sikka samm , youd minted shurt in 1794 .
Gold dollars aor gold-colored doller have also been produced by the United States .
The Sacagawea and Presidential dollars are praha referred to as `` suhrr doller '' .
In modern times , dollar coins have not marhu bhoot lercoria in the United States .
Despite efforts by the sarki to promote their use , most Americans currently use the one dollar bill rather than dollar coins .
In sidha aor sthrr udan lifti ( l ) equals weight ( W ) .
In a banked farr of kaa , lifti barai double the weight ( L=2W ) .
The pilot anboov 2g and a doubled weight .
The steeper the bank , the vrh the g-forces .
inse top-fuel dragster can accelerate from zero to in 0.86 seconds .
This is a horizontal twan of 5.3 g. sont saah the lantov g-force in the stationary case the Pythagorean theorem yields a g force of 5.4 g .
g-force ( with g from gurakh ) is a pada liya accelerations laga as weight and measurable by accelerometers .
It is not a force , per se , but a fors prti unit mass .
Since such a force is perceived as a wazan , khoi g-force can be varn as a `` wazan prti kayi draman '' ( see the synonym specific weight ) .
The g-force twarn adhiomon as a gunk of weight-like shatiya for every unit of an object 's mass , and ( save for certain electromagnetic force influences ) is the cause of an object 's acceleration in relation to free-fall .
This acceleration experienced by an object is due to the vaktor yug of non-gravitational shatiyan acting on an object free to move .
The accelerations that are not produced by gravity are termed uchat accelerations , aor it is tabhi yaa kiya hain measured in g-force units .
They cause tanoo aor strains on objects .
cuyi of yaa strains , large g-forces may be destructive .
Gravitation acting alone does not produce a g-force , bhii halki g-forces are expressed in multiples of the acceleration of a standard gravity .
Thus , the standard gravitational twan at the darti 's satah produces g-force tabhi indirectly , as a result of resistance to it by mechanical forces .
the 1 g-force on an aakt bete on the darti 's satah is caused by mechanical force exerted in the upward direction by the ground , keeping the object from going into free-fall .
The upward force from the ground ensures that an object at rest on the Earth 's surface is accelerating relative to the free-fall condition , which is the paath kiya the aabte hota follow jajb girna freely toward the Earth 's center .
Objects antum to free-fall in an inertial trajectory under the influence of gravitation-only , feel no g-force .
This is demonstrated by the `` zero-g '' conditions inside a freely falling elevator falling toward the Earth 's bech ( in kauk ) , or ( to shoh suntnn ) sharte ander a spacecraft in Earth orbit .
These are examples of nerakh twarn ( a badle in gati ) without a sensation of weight .
The anu of no g-force ( zero-g ) , however it is produced , is synonymous with weightlessness .
In the absence of gravitational fields , or in directions at right angles to them , proper and coordinate accelerations are the vahi , aor khoi nerakh twarn jarur be itpit by a corresponding g-force acceleration .
An example here is a rocket in free space , in which simple changes in gati hain idpit by the injan , and produce g-forces on the rocket and passengers .
An augur holding a lituus , the curved wand praha prutt as a symbol of augury on Roman coins
the augur thay a pujari aor adhak in the classical world , especially ancient Rome and Etruria .
His main role was to interpret the hoga of the devat by adhn the udan of pashyon : whether vey hain udte in groups or alone , what noises they make as they fly , direction of flight and what kind of birds they are .
This thay gyat as `` taking the auspices . ''
The ceremony and function of the augur was central to any major undertaking in roman kaa or kaa matters of war , commerce , and religion .
The Roman historian Livy stresses the importance of the augurs : `` Who karta nahi jaan kiya inse nuagar thay sapit tabhi bada lene the auspices , kiya subk in hudd aor in peace , at home and abroad , was done only after taking the auspices ? ''
Farmington Hills is an affluent jatio in southeastern Michigan .
It is the second largest nuagar in alcold kanti in the U.S. state of Michigan .
Its population was 79,740 at the 2010 yankite .
It is part of the upscale northwestern agaro of mahag detr aor is bhii puotar of downtown Ann Arbor .
Farmington Hills consistently badhane as eke of the safest cities in the United States , as well as in the state of Michigan .
In 2010 , the area crem as the 30th safest nuagar in America .
Although the dho sharmo have prath sevan aor pata , farmington and Farmington Hills are often thought of as the same community .
shuvien of the jatio shaml a recently swar sharr , boutiques , a vintage cinema , numerous restaurants , exotic car dealerships , art galleries , and public parks including Heritage Park .
There are several ataic sait sahit the Longacre House and the Governor Warner Mansion .
Both cities are served by farmington palcie suloon .
farmington phaan serves as a major business center for the greater Detroit area .
present-day chhap of a Late Bronze Age seal
Town seal ( mentric ) of kaa from 1570
A seal is a device for making an chhap in mamo , mitti , pepar , or kuch anya medium , including an embossment on paper , and is also the impression thus made .
The original purpose was to authenticate a document , a wrapper liya eke aisa as a adhun lifa , or the kaar of a saaaak or package holding valuables or other objects .
the sealing prakm is essentially kiya of a sache , saah the final image represented on the device for making the impression by a mirror-image design , incised in sunken- ( or counter- ) relief or intaglio .
The seal-making device is also referred to as the muhrr mentric or die ; the imprint it creates as the muhrr chhap ( or , more rarely , the sealing ) .
If the impression is made purely as a relief resulting from the greater pressure on the pepar jaha the unchi bhag of the mentric tach , the muhrr is gyat as a shusk muhrr ; in seb anya mamle a draw or liquified media ( such as ink or wax ) is used , usually in another color than the paper .
For legal udshy , the prahi of a muhrr may be extended to include rubber stamps , or writing specified words ( `` seal '' or `` L.S . `` ) .
In the United States , the word `` seal '' is sometimes assigned to a facsimile of the seal design ( in monochrome or color ) , which may be prutt in a kismo of contexts sahit architectural jamte , on dwar , or on adhak letterheads .
Thus , for example , the Great Seal of the United States , among other uses , appears on the rivar of the one-dollar dheeek ; aor anek of the seals of the U.S. states appear on their respective state flags .
In Europe , although coats of arms and heraldic badges may well feature in such contexts as well as on seals , the muhrr denain in isko entirety rarely appears as an emblem .
The padha of seals is gyat as sigillography or sphragistics .
Groundhog Day ( penalaiaa jarni : grundsaudaag , Murmeltiertag ) is a day celebrated on February 2 .
According to folklore , if it is cloudy when a groundhog emerges from its burrow on this day , then spring will come early ; if it is suni , the groundhog hoga maano dekhi isko chaya aor ritt waps into isko burrow , aor the shit masam hoga continue liya six more weeks .
adhuok kastom of the aaak involve jasna where early morning festivals are held to watch the groundhog emerging from its burrow .
In southeastern penalaiaa , groundhog lodges ( grundsow lodges ) celebrate the holiday with fersommlinge , social events in which food is served , speeches are made , and one or more g'spiel ( plays or skits ) are performed for entertainment .
The Pennsylvania German dialect is the only bhasa bula at the vent , aor those jau bolo angrij ada a dand , praha in the roop of a nickel , dime , or quarter per word spoken , with the money put into a bowl in the center of the table .
The largest groundhog dena jasna is aegt in Punxsutawney , Pennsylvania .
Groundhog Day , already a widely recognized and popular tradition , received widespread attention as a result of the 1993 filli groundhog dena , jisse thay niyat in punxsutawney , pa ( halki filma primarily in wudaatk , il ) and portrayed Punxsutawney Phil .
unche reus image of Tampa Bay region
The Tampa Bay area has a humid subtropical climate ( koppen cfa ) , saah garma aor ardr greesh saahh baar thunderstorms aor drier dardiyon with freezing temperatures occurring every kaa years .
The area experiences a significant summer wet season , as nearly two-thirds of the salana varhh japlat in the months of June through September .
The area is listed by the United States Department of Agriculture ( USDA ) as being in hardiness mandl 10 , jisse is prrchy the utare seema of jaha narrila haliian aor royal palms can be grown .
Highs usually range between 65 aor 95 kaa ( 18 and 35 kaa ) year round .
Though known for hot summers , Tampa 's official high has never phonch 100 kaa ( 38 kaa ) kaa the nuagar 's all-time record temperature is 99 kaa ( 37 kaa ) .
St. Petersburg 's all-time record high is exactly 100 kaa ( 38 kaa ) .
Pinellas County lies on a peninsula between Tampa Bay and the galf of masko , aor much of the city of Tampa lies on a smaller peninsula jutting out into Tampa Bay .
This nikta to visal laase of jala dano narthpyon temperatures and introduces large amounts of humidity into the atmosphere .
In general , the local communities farthest isse the coast have larger tapan siemo , both during a single day and throughout the seasons of the year .
A diagram of the electromagnetic spectrum , prish vinnin gune aar the range of frequencies and wavelengths
The electromagnetic spectrum is the range of seb sans barbant of elarctitinn radiation .
The `` elactictenet nark '' of an aakte raai a alag arth , and is instead the characteristic distribution of electromagnetic radiation emitted or absorbed by that particular object .
The electromagnetic spectrum extends from below the low frequencies used for adhuok redio sanchar to gama vikarnn at the short- wavelength ( high-frequency ) end , thereby covering wavelengths from thousands of kilometers down to a fraction of the size of an atom .
The limit for long wavelengths is the size of the universe itself , while it is thought kiya the choti wavelength seema is in the vicinity of the plaakk lambai , although in principle the spectrum is infinite and continuous .
Most parts of the electromagnetic spectrum are used in science for spectroscopic aor anya probing interactions , as trrke to study and characterize matter .
In jod , vikrinn isse vinnin bhag of the spectrum has found many other uses for communications and manufacturing ( see electromagnetic radiation for more applications ) .
lende
Franklin Delano Roosevelt ( or ; January 30 , 1882 kaa April 12 , 1945 ) , also known by his initials , fdr , thay the 32nd addhs of the sont raay ( kaa ) aor a contrl pigar in sanaar events during the mid-20th century , leading the United States during a time of worldwide economic depression and total war .
A dominant leader of the Democratic Party and the only American president elected to more than two terms , he built a New sade ganbhann kiya realigned amri rajanti bada 1932 , as uske rehlul netyo parah American liberalism for the middle third of the 20th century .
With the bouncy popular song `` Happy Days Are Here Again `` as his campaign theme , FDR defeated incumbent rapblonn harbat huoar in nambar 1932 , at the ghrri of the gree Depression .
Energized by his personal victory over polio , FDR 's unfailing ashad aor sacrtaor contributed to a navrkar of the nashl spiet .
he worked closely saah angoj prahan mantri vintant charchl aor sovet samay cchrvi jasse Stalin in leading the Allies against Germany and Japan in World War II , and restoring prosperity to the nation 's economy .
In his first hundred days in office , which began March 4 , 1933 , rujvelt patraaan prmuk vidan aor gari a profusion of kariila adesh kiya instituted the New Deal kaa variety of programs designed to produce relief ( government jobs for the unemployed ) , recovery ( economic growth ) , and reform ( through regulation of Wall Street , banks and transportation ) .
The economy improved rapidly isse 1933 to 1937 , lackin tab relapsed into a deep recession .
The bipartisan Conservative Coalition that formed in 1937 prevented his packing the Supreme Court or passing any considerable vidan ; it abolished anek of the rahta karm jajb bargii diminished during World War II .
Most of the regulations on caaar you ended prrchyi kaa , magar liya the vinnim of Wall Street by the Securities and Exchange Commission , which still exists .
Along with several smaller programs , major surviving programs include the Federal jama bima nigm , jisse thay nirm in 1933 , aor sohll surkha , which Congress passed in 1935 .
As World War II loomed after 1938 , saah the japani arman of chhin aor the aktara of naji jarni , fdr gave strong diplomatic and financial support to China and Great Britain , while remaining officially neutral .
His goal was to make America the `` Arsenal of laktar `` jisse hota salai munitions to the Allies .
In kuch 1941 , rujvelt , saah congressional swieti , provided Lend-Lease aid to the countries fighting against Nazi Germany with Britain .
With very strong national support , he made war on Japan and Germany after the Japanese attack on Pearl haarb on dismar 7 , 1941 , colling it a `` tithi jisse will live in infamy `` .
He supervised the mobilization of the U.S. arvasha to support the aladi hudd pratan .
As an active military leader , rujvelt implemented an overall hudd ranti on dho fronts kiya ended in the shikt of the Axis Powers and the development of the world 's first atom bomb .
In 1942 rujvelt ordered the internment of 100,000 Japanese American civilians .
Unemployment dropped to 2 % , relief programs largely ended , and the industrial economy grew rapidly to new heights as lakho of logo sthrn to nayi karya in hudd centers , aor 16 lakho meen aor 300,000 mahlo yhoo drafted or volunteered for military service .
Roosevelt dominated the American political scene not only during the barah xalo of uske presidency , but also for decades afterward .
He orchestrated the realignment of voters kiya nirm the paavo Party System .
FDR 's New Deal Coalition united labor unions , big city machines , swath ethnics , African Americans and rural white Southerners .
He bhii baawa the bada sushi of the United Nations and Bretton Woods .
Roosevelt is consistently rated by scholars as one of the top three U.S. Presidents , along with Abraham Lincoln aor zarg vashitnn .
A liberal Democrat , Roosevelt parah uske charic stith as `` a little left of center . ''
A Joint Committee is a term in politics that is used to refer to a committee made up of saxy of dano kasho of a bicameral nidla .
In other contexts , it refers to a kamit saah saxy isse adhek than one organization .
The regulation of prostitution in the United States is not among the enumerated powers of the federal government ; Under the Tenth Amendment to the sont raay swanhann , it is ssliye exclusively the doman of the raay to prrti , prohibit , or varna vinit wyniik sex , magar insofar as Congress may regulate it as part of interstate commerce with laws like the Mann Act .
In most raay , vasti is maano a misdemeanor in the shari of public order crime , a crime that disrupts the order of a community .
It was at one samay maano to be a vagrancy crime .
Currently , Nevada is the only state to allow brothel prostitution , the sharte of jisse hain stipulated in the nafa sandh Statutes .
Only 8 counties filal contain crisiol brothels .
All forms of prostitution are illegal in Clark County ( which contains the Las kaa metropolitan area ) , Washoe kanti ( jisse contains reno ) , karsa nuagar , dgals kanti , and Lincoln County .
The other counties theoretically allow vashl vastiv , lackin kuch of yaa kanti currently have no active brothels .
Street prostitution , `` pandering , '' and living off of the proceeds of a vash remain illegal antra nafa vidhi , as elsewhere in the desh .
As with other deso , vastiv in the sunt States can be divided into three broad categories : street prostitution , brothel prostitution , and escort prostitution .
The national flag of the United States of America , often simply referred to as the American flag , consists of thirteen equal horizontal stripes of red ( top and bottom ) alternating with white , with a blue rectangle in the kantan ( referred to specifically as the `` samnh '' ) bearing paaas choti , swath , five-pointed sitaoo arranged in nano faste aada pakti of chaa sitaoo ( shers aor bottom ) alternating with rows of five stars .
The 50 stars on the flag represent the 50 states of the United States of America and the 13 stripes represent the thirteen angove colonies kiya hogt swatta isse the kidamen of gree bretten aor became the first states in the Union .
Nicknames for the flag include the `` Stars and Stripes '' , `` budha mahima `` , aor `` the star-spangled Banner . ''
India is a federal union of states comprising twenty-eight raay aor saat samnh territories .
The states and territories are further subdivided into giele aor so on .
congressional geele for the 113th United States Congress
2010 Census change:
