A partly  submerged हिमानी गुफा on perito मोरेनो  Glacier .
the बर्फ मुखाग्र  is approximately 60 m high
Ice  formations in the  Titlis glacier cave
A  हिमानी गुफा is a गुफा formed भीतर the  ice of a glacier .
Glacier caves  हैं प्रायः पुकारा बर्फ गुफाएं , लकिन इस पद is properly प्रयुक्त to describe bedrock  caves that contain year-round ice .
In physics , circular motion is a movement of an object along the circumference  of a वृत्त or रोटेशन साथ a गोलाकार  path .
It can be uniform , with constant angular  रेट of रोटेशन ( और निरंतर गति ) , or non-uniform  with a changing rate of rotation .
The rotation  around a फिक्स्ड अक्ष of a three-dimensional  body involves circular motion of its parts .
The equations of  गति describe the गति of the बीच  of mass of a body .
Examples of circular motion include : an  कृत्रिम उपग्रह orbiting the धरती at निरंतर ऊँचाई , a स्टोन जिससे is tied to a रस्सी और is होने  swung in circles , a car turning through a curve in a race track , an electron moving perpendicular to a uniform magnetic field , and a gear turning inside a mechanism .
चूंकि the ऑब्जेक्ट 's गति वेक्टर is constantly बदलना दिशा , the चलती  object is undergoing acceleration by a centripetal force in the direction of the center of rotation .
Without this acceleration , the object would move in a straight line , according to  न्यूटन 's कानून of गति  .
Apollo Creed is a  fictional अक्षर इससे the रॉकी films , initially portrayed as  the Undisputed Heavyweight Champion of the World .
He  थी निभाई by कार्ल  Weathers .
Creed had multiple  nicknames , सहित the निपुण of विपत्ति , the किंग of स्टिंग , the नाचना विनाशक , the  Prince of Punch , The One and Only and The Count of Monte Fisto .
Urban legend states that Apollo Creed 's name is  a wordplay on the रसूलों ' पंथ , a बयान  of belief used in Christian churches .
All of  अपोलो 's चैंपियनशिप झगड़े यहूद अनुसूचित  for the 15 round distance .
Championship  झगड़े किया नहीं बदलें इससे 15 rounds to 12  rounds until 1987 .
Rocky Balboa is often wrongly credited with popularizing the red , white ,  और ब्लू trunks ; पंथ थी the पहला man to पहनें उन्हें ( latterly worn by रॉकी बाल्बोआ in the 3rd और 4th किश्तों और आखिरकार by टॉमी `` the यंत्र '' gunn ( टॉमी मॉरिसन  ) in the 5th installment ) although normally he wore red and white , as seen in Rocky II .
Balboa 's signature  रंगों यहूद ब्लैक और gold—colors he प्रयुक्त in  the latest movie .
In the United States , the title of federal judge usually means a judge appointed by the President of the United States and  पुष्टि by the संयुक्त राज्य सीनेट pursuant to the नियुक्ति clause in आलेख ii of the संयुक्त राज्य  Constitution .
In  जोड to the परम् अदालत of the संयुक्त राज्य , जिनकी अस्तित्व और कुछ पहलुओं of जिनकी क्षेत्राधिकार हैं परे the संवैधानिक शक्ति of कॉंग्रेस to alter , अधिनियमों of कॉंग्रेस  have established 13 courts of appeals ( also called `` circuit courts '' ) with appellate jurisdiction over different regions of the United States , and 94 United States district courts .
Every judge appointed to such a court may be categorized as a federal  न्यायधीश ; ऐसे स्थितियाँ शामिल the मुख्य इंसाफ और संबद्ध justices of the परम् अदालत , सर्किट न्यायाधीशों of the न्यायालयों  of appeals , and district judges of the United States district courts .
All of these judges described thus far are referred to  sometimes as `` आलेख iii न्यायाधीशों '' क्युकी वे कसरत the न्यायिक शक्ति vested in the न्यायिक शाखा of the संघीय सरकारी by आलेख iii of  the U.S. Constitution .
In addition , judges of the Court of  अंतरराष्ट्रीय व्यापार कसरत न्यायिक  power pursuant to Article III .
Other judges serving in the  संघीय न्यायालयों , सहित मजिस्ट्रेट न्यायाधीशों और दिवालियापन न्यायाधीशों , हैं भी sometimes referred to as `` संघीय न्यायाधीशों '' ; however ,  they are neither appointed by the President nor confirmed by the Senate , and their power derives from Article I instead .
See  आलेख i और आलेख  III tribunals .
The Beretta 21A Bobcat  is a छोटी pocket-sized semi-automatic पिस्टल designed  by Beretta in Italy .
उत्पादन began in लेट 1984 , solely in the beretta  U.S.A. facility in Accokeek , Maryland .
It is a  further विकास  of the Beretta Model 20 , whose production ended in 1985 .
परिवर्तनीय सार्वभौमिक जीवन बीमे ( प्रायः shortened to  VUL ) is a type of life insurance that builds a cash value .
In a VUL , the cash value can be invested in a wide variety of separate  खाते , समान to परस्पर निधि , और the चुनाव of जिससे  of the available separate accounts to use is entirely up to the contract owner .
The 'variable ' component  in the नाम refers to इस क्षमता to invest in पृथक खाते जिनकी मान vary—they  vary because they are invested in stock and/or bond markets .
The  'universal ' घटक in the नाम refers to the लचीलापन the  owner has in making premium payments .
The premiums can vary from nothing in a given month  up to maximums पारिभाषित by the आतंरिक आय कोड लिये जीवन बीमे  .
This flexibility is in contrast to whole life insurance that has fixed premium payments that typically can not be missed without lapsing the policy (  हालांकि एक may कसरत an स्वचालित प्रीमियम ऋण विशेषता , or आत्मसमर्पण dividends to अदा a पूरे  Life premium ) .
Variable universal life is a type of permanent life insurance , because the  मौत लाभ होगा be सशुल्क if the insured मरता कोई समय as long as वहीँ is sufficient  cash value to pay the costs of insurance in the policy .
With most if not all VULs  , नापसंद पूरे जीवन , वहीँ is no endowment आयु ( the आयु at  which the cash value equals the death benefit amount , which for whole life is typically 100 ) .
This is  yet another कुंजी लाभ of vul  over Whole Life .
With a typical whole life policy , the death benefit is limited to the face amount specified  in the नीति , और at endowment आयु , the फेस राशि is सब कि is सशुल्क  out .
Thus with either death or  endowment , the बीमे कम्पनी keeps कोई नकदी मान  built up over the years .
However , some participating whole life policies offer riders which  बताएँ कि कोई dividends सशुल्क on the नीति be प्रयुक्त to खरीदें  `` paid up additions '' to the policy which increase both the cash value and the death benefit over time .
If  निवेश बना in the पृथक खाते out-perform the सामान्य खाता of the बीमे कम्पनी , a उच्चतर rate-of-return  can occur than the fixed rates-of-return typical for whole life .
The combination over the years of no endowment age  , continually increasing मौत लाभ , और if a ऊँची rate-of-return is अर्जित in the पृथक खाते of a vul नीति , इस could परिणाम in उच्चतर  value to the owner or beneficiary than that of a whole life policy with the same amounts of money paid in as premiums .
The outdoor wood boiler is a variant of the classic  लकडी स्टोव adapted लिये set-up बाहरी जबकि स्टिल transferring  the heat to interior buildings .
A mound of  लड़की स्काउट  cookies .
इस mound contains 74  boxes of cookies
Girl Scout Cookies are  कुकीज़ बेची by लड़की स्काउट of the यूएसए ( gsusa ) as एक of इसके  major fundraisers for local Scout units .
Members of the GSUSA have been selling cookies  चूंकि 1917 to उठाएँ निधि  .
Girls who participate can earn prizes for  उनके प्रयत्न  .
There are also unit  प्रोत्साहन if the ईकाई  as a whole does well .
As of  2007 , बिक्री यहूद अनुमानित at परिचय 200 लाख बाक्स  per year .
विश्वविद्यालयों हॉल
Purdue University , located in West Lafayette , Indiana  , is the फ्लैगशिप विश्वविद्यालयों of the six-campus purdue विश्वविद्यालयों  system .
Purdue was founded on May 6 ,  1869 , as a land-grant विश्वविद्यालयों जब the इंडियाना सामान्य सभा , लेने लाभ of the morrill अधिनियम , स्वीकृत a दान of  land and money from Lafayette businessman John Purdue to establish a college of science , technology , and agriculture in his name .
The  पहला वर्ग यहूद आयोजित on सितंबर 16 , 1874 , साथ छह  instructors and 39 students .
Today , Purdue is a member of the Big Ten Conference , and is a well known  world-class शोध संस्था  .
Purdue enrolls the second largest student body of any university in  इंडियाना as खूब as the चौथी largest अंतरराष्ट्रीय छात्र जनसांख्यिकी of  any university in the United States .
Purdue  offers दोनो undergraduate और ग्रैजुएट कार्यक्रम in over 211 प्रमुख  areas of study , and is well known for its competitive engineering curricula .
The university has also been highly influential in America 's history of aviation , having established the first college  क्रेडिट offered in उड़ान प्रशिक्षण , the पहला four-year स्नातक 's उपाधि in विमानन , और the पहला विश्वविद्यालयों विमानक्षेत्र ( purdue विश्वविद्यालयों विमानक्षेत्र ) .
Purdue 's aviation  प्रौद्योगिकी कार्यक्रम remains एक of the सबसे प्रतिस्पर्धी  aviation-specific programs in the world .
In the mid-20th century , Purdue 's aviation program expanded to encompass  उन्नत spaceflight प्रौद्योगिकी giving वृद्धि to purdue 's उपनाम , पालना of astronauts  .
Twenty-three Purdue graduates have gone on to become astronauts , including  गस grissom ( एक of the असली पारा सात astronauts ) , neil आर्मस्ट्रांग ( the पहला व्यक्ति to चलना on the चंद्रमा ) , और यूजीन cernan  ( the most recent person to walk on the moon ) .
A sebaceous cyst ( ) is  a पद कि loosely refers to either epidermoid cysts ( भी  known as epidermal cysts ; L72.0 ) or pilar cysts ( also known as trichilemmal cysts ; L72.1 ) .
Because an  epidermoid गाँठ originates in the epidermis और a पिलर गाँठ originates इससे बाल follicles  , by definition , neither type of cyst is strictly a sebaceous cyst .
the नाम is regarded as a misnomer as the वसीय  , white , semi-solid material in both of these cyst entities is not sebum , but keratin .
Furthermore , under the  सूक्ष्मदर्शी neither एंटिटी contains  sebaceous glands .
In practice , however  , the शर्तें हैं प्रायः प्रयुक्त  interchangeably .
`` True '' sebaceous cysts are relatively rare and are known as  steatocystomas or , if अनेक , as steatocystoma मल्टीप्लेक्स  .
आधुनिक pointe  shoes .
The edge of the toe pad , which is inserted between the foot and toe box  लिये cushioning , can be देखी on the सही पैर  .
A pointe shoe is a type  of जूता worn by बैले  dancers when performing pointe work .
Pointe shoes developed from the desire for dancers to appear weightless and sylph -like and have evolved to enable  नर्तक to नृत्य en pointe ( on the नुस्ख़े of उनके toes ) लिये  extended periods of time .
They are normally worn by female dancers , though male dancers may wear them for unorthodox roles such as the  भद्दा stepsisters in सिंडरेला , नीचे in a midsummer रात्रि 's सपना , or मेन performing as महिलाओं  in dance companies such as Les Ballets Trockadero and Grandiva .
They are manufactured in a variety of colors ,  सबसे commonly in शेड्स of  light pink .
This tablespoon has a  क्षमता of परिचय  15 mL .
measuring spoons
In the US and parts of Canada , a tablespoon is  the largest प्रकार of चमचा प्रयुक्त लिये खाने इससे a कटोरी  .
In the UK , Europe and  सबसे राष्ट्रमंडल देशों , a tablespoon is  a type of large spoon usually used for serving .
In  देशों जहाँ a tablespoon is a सेवारत चमचा , the  nearest equivalent to the US tablespoon is either the dessert spoon or the soup spoon .
A  tablespoonful , nominally the क्षमता of एक tablespoon  , is commonly used as a measure of volume in cooking .
It is  abbreviated as t , tb , tbs , tbsp , tblsp  , or tblspn .
The capacity of  ordinary tablespoons is नहीं regulated by विधि और  is subject to considerable variation .
In the USA one tablespoon ( measurement unit ) is approximately 15 mL ; the capacity  of an वास्तविक tablespoon ( डाइनिंग utensil ) सीमाएँ इससे 7  mL to 14 mL .
In Australia one  tablespoon ( मापन ईकाई ) is 20  mL .
Harry Potter is a series of  सात काल्पनिक novels लिखा by the अंग्रेजों लेखक  J. K. Rowling .
The books chronicle the adventures of a wizard ,  हैरी कुम्हार , और उसके मित्रों रोनाल्ड वीज़्ली और हर्माइनी ग्रेंजर , सब of जिसको हैं विद्यार्थी at हॉग्वार्ट्स स्कूल  of Witchcraft and Wizardry .
The main story arc concerns Harry 's quest to overcome the Dark wizard Lord Voldemort , whose aims are to become  अमर , जीतें the wizarding संसार , subjugate non-magical लोगों , और नष्ट सब those जो स्टैंड in उसके रास्ता , विशेषकर हैरी  Potter .
Since the release of the first novel Harry Potter and the Philosopher 's  स्टोन on 30 जून 1997 ,  the books have gained immense popularity , critical acclaim and commercial success worldwide .
The series has  भी था कुछ share of आलोचना  , including concern for the increasingly dark tone .
, the book  श्रेणी रै बेची परिचय 450 लाख नक़ल , बनाना it the best-selling किताब श्रेणी in  history , and has been translated into 67 languages .
The last four books consecutively set records  as the fastest-selling किताबे  in history .
A series of many genres , including fantasy and coming of age ( with elements of mystery ,  थ्रिलर , एडवेंचर , और रोमांस ) , it रै अनेक सांस्कृतिक meanings  and references .
According to Rowling ,  the प्रमुख थीम is मौत  .
There  हैं भी अनेक अन्य विषयवस्तु in  the series , such as prejudice and corruption .
The initial  प्रमुख प्रकाशक of the किताबे यहूद bloomsbury in the संयुक्त किंगडम और scholastic दबायें  in the United States .
The  किताबे have चूंकि महरूम प्रकाशित  by many publishers worldwide .
The books , with the seventh book split into two parts , have been made into an eight-part film  श्रेणी by warner भाईs. तस्वीरें , the highest-grossing फिल्मी श्रेणी  of all time .
The series also  originated much tie-in merchandise , बनाना the हैरी कुम्हार ब्रांड  worth in excess of $ 15 billion .
Also due to the success of the books and films , Harry Potter has been used for a  थीम पार्क , the wizarding संसार of हैरी कुम्हार in सार्वभौमिक पार्क & रिसॉर्ट 's आइलैंड्स of एडवेंचर  .
rs-68 होने tested at नासा  's Stennis Space Center .
The nearly transparent exhaust is due  to इस इंजन 's exhaust होने ज़्यादातर अतितप्त भाप ( जल वाष्प इससे इसके propellants  , hydrogen and oxygen )
Viking 5C  प्रक्षेपास्त्र इंजन
A rocket  इंजन , or बस `` प्रक्षेपास्त्र '' , is a जेट इंजन कि उपयोग तभी भंडारित propellant  mass for forming its high speed propulsive jet .
Rocket engines are reaction  इंजन और obtain thrust in accordance साथ न्यूटन  's third law .
Since they need no external material to form their jet , rocket engines can  be प्रयुक्त लिये spacecraft नोदन as खूब as स्थलीय  uses , such as missiles .
Most rocket engines are internal  दहन इंजन , हालांकि non-combusting फ़ॉर्म भी  exist .
Rocket engines as a group have the highest  exhaust गतियाँ , हैं by दूर the lightest , लकिन हैं the तनिक propellant कुशल  of all types of jet engines .
`` ...  baby एक अधिक समय '' is a सोंग  by American recording artist Britney Spears .
It served as Spears 's debut single and title track from  उसके डेब्यू स्टुडियो  album , ... Baby One More Time ( 1999 ) .
Written by Max Martin and produced by Martin and Rami , `` ... Baby  एक अधिक समय '' थी released on सितंबर 30 , 1998 , by jive रिकॉर्ड  .
बाद रिकॉर्डिंग और sending a डेमो टेप साथ an अप्रयुक्त  song from Toni Braxton , Spears signed a multi-album deal with Jive .
`` ... Baby One More Time '' is a teen pop and  dance-pop सोंग कि refers to a लड़की जो संताप तोड़कर up साथ उसके बॉयफ्रेंड  .
The song received generally  अनुकूल समीक्षाएँ इससे आलोचकों  , who praised its composition .
``  ... baby एक अधिक समय '' attained वैश्विक कामयाबी  , reaching number one in every country it charted .
It  भी प्राप्त numerous certifications around the संसार , और is एक of the  best-selling singles of all time , with over 10 million copies sold .
An accompanying music  वीडियो , निर्देशित by निगेल लंड , portrays स्पीयर्स as a छात्र इससे a कैथोलिक ऊँची स्कूल , जो starts to daydream कि वो is गायन  and dancing around the school , while watching her love interest from afar .
The music video was later referenced in the music video of `` If U Seek Amy `` ( 2008 ) , where  स्पीयर्स 's fictional बेटी is वेश साथ a समान schoolgirl पहनावा जबकि wearing  pink ribbons in her hair .
In  2010 , the म्यूज़िक वीडियो लिये `` ... baby एक अधिक समय  '' was voted the third most influential video in the history of pop music , in a poll held by Jam ! .
Spears has performed `` ... Baby One  अधिक समय '' in a क्रमांक  of live appearances and in all of her concert tours .
It was the  encore of the ... baby एक अधिक समय दौरे ( 1999 ) और सपना भीतर a सपना दौरे ( 2001 ) ; स्पीयर्स  also performed remixed versions of the song during the Oops ! ...
I Did It Again World Tour ( 2000 ) , The Onyx Hotel Tour ( 2004 ) , The M+M 's Tour (  2007 ) , the सर्कस अभिनीत britney स्पीयर्स ( 2009 )  , and the Femme Fatale Tour ( 2011 ) .
`` ... Baby One More  समय '' थी मनोनीत लिये a ग्रैमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन मादा पॉप गायन प्रदर्शन  , and has been included in lists by Blender , Rolling Stone and VH1 .
It has been noted for redefining  the ध्वनि of लेट 1990s म्यूज़िक  .
Spears has  नामित `` ... baby एक अधिक समय '' as एक of  her favorite songs from her career .
It was  भी the फाइनल सोंग to be निभाई on the बीबीसी  's music programme Top of the Pops .
Cholera is an infection in the small intestine caused by  the bacterium vibrio cholerae  .
The main  लक्षण हैं watery अतिसार  and vomiting .
Transmission occurs primarily by drinking water or eating food that has been contaminated by the feces ( waste  उत्पाद ) of an संक्रमित व्यक्ति , सहित एक साथ no apparent लक्षण .
The severity of the diarrhea and vomiting can lead  to रैपिड निर्जलीकरण और electrolyte असंतुलन , और मौत  in some cases .
The primary treatment is  मौखिक पुनर्जलीकरण चिकित्सा , typically साथ मौखिक पुनर्जलीकरण समाधान  , to replace water and electrolytes .
If this  is नहीं tolerated or करता नहीं provide सुधार तेज़ पर्याप्त  , intravenous fluids can also be used .
Antibacterial drugs are beneficial in those with  कठोर बीमारी to shorten इसके अवधि और गंभीरता  .
विश्वव्यापी , it affects 3–5 लाख  people and causes 100,000–130,000 deaths a year .
Cholera was one of the earliest  infections to be पढ़ाई by epidemiological  methods .
The Picture of  डोरियन धूसर is the तभी प्रकाशित अनोखा by ऑस्कर वाइल्ड , appearing as the सीसे स्टोरी in lippincott  's Monthly Magazine on 20 June 1890 , printed as the July 1890 issue of this magazine .
The magazine 's editors feared the story was indecent as submitted  , so वे censored roughly 500 शब्द , बगैर वाइल्ड 's ज्ञान , पहले  publication .
But even with that , the story was still greeted with outrage by  अंग्रेजों reviewers , कुछ of जिसको सुझाया कि वाइल्ड चाहिए be prosecuted on moral grounds , अग्रणी वाइल्ड to बचाव the अनोखा aggressively in अक्षर to the अंग्रेजों दबायें .
Wilde later revised the story for book  प्रकाशन , बनाना substantial alterations , हटाना विवादास्पद passages , adding नई अध्याय और सहित an aphoristic preface जिससे  has since become famous in its own right .
The amended  संस्करण थी प्रकाशित by  Ward , Lock and Company in April 1891 .
Some scholars  मानना कि वाइल्ड होता आज have चाही us to पढ़ा the  version he originally submitted to Lippincott 's .
The novel tells  of a यंग man नामित डोरियन धूसर , the विषय of a  painting by artist Basil Hallward .
Basil is impressed by Dorian  's सौंदर्य और becomes infatuated साथ उसे , believing उसके सौंदर्य is जिम्मेदार  for a new mode in his art .
Dorian meets Lord Henry Wotton , a  dost of बेसिल 's , और becomes  enthralled by Lord Henry 's world view .
Espousing a new hedonism , Lord Henry suggests the only things worth  pursuing in जीवन हैं सौंदर्य और fulfilment of the होश  .
Realizing that one day his beauty will fade , Dorian (  whimsically ) expresses a ख्वाहिश to बेचें उसके आत्मा to ensure the पोर्ट्रेट  Basil has painted would age rather than he .
Dorian 's wish is fulfilled , and when he subsequently pursues a life of debauchery , the portrait serves as a reminder of the effect each act has upon  उसके आत्मा , साथ प्रत्येक सिन प्रदर्शित as a disfigurement of उसके रूप , or through  a sign of aging .
The Picture of  डोरियन धूसर is माना a कार्य of क्लासिक गोथिक fiction  with a strong Faustian theme .
Sári Gábor ( born 6  फ़रवरी 1917 ) , ज्ञात as ज़ा ज़ा गैबर ( ) , is a हंगेरियाई -born अमरीकी अभिनेत्री जो acted in supporting भूमिकाएँ in  movies , on Broadway , and occasionally on television .
Gabor was also  a socialite  .
वो began उसके स्टेज करियर in वियना  at age 15 , and was crowned Miss Hungary in 1936 .
She emigrated to the United States in 1941 and  became a sought-after अभिनेत्री साथ `` यूरोपीय फ्लेयर और स्टाइल '' , साथ a व्यक्तित्व कि  `` exuded charm and grace '' .
Her  पहला फिल्म भूमिका थी as supporting  actress in Lovely to Look At .
She later acted  in we 're नहीं शादीशुदा !
and played one of her few leading roles in Moulin Rouge ( 1952 ) ,  निर्देशित by जॉन हस्टन , जो वर्णित उसके as a `` विश्वसनीय '' अभिनेत्री  .
Besides her film and television appearances , she is best known for  having नौ पतियों , सहित होटल महारथी कोनराड  Hilton and actor George Sanders .
She once stated , `` Men have  सदा liked me और i have  always liked men .
But I like a mannish man ,  a man जो knows कैसा to बात to और दावत a स्त्री – नहीं  just a man with muscles . ''
Bruce Lee ( traditional : 李小龍 ; born  ली jun-fan ; 27 नवम्बर 1940 – 20 जुलाई 1973 ) थी a चाइनीज अमरीकी martial कलाकार , कर्ता , martial  arts instructor , philosopher , and filmmaker .
The founder of Jeet Kune Do , Lee was  the बेटे of cantonese ओपेरा स्टार ली hoi-chuen  .
He is widely considered by commentators , critics , media and other  martial कलाकारों to be एक of the सबसे influential martial  artists of all time , and a pop culture icon of the 20th century .
He is often credited with helping to change the  रास्ता एशियाइ यहूद प्रस्तुत in  American films .
Lee  थी born in चाइनाटाउन , सैन फ्रांसिस्को on 27 नवम्बर 1940 to अभिभावक इससे हांग काँग और थी उठाया  in Kowloon with his family until his late teens .
He  थी introduced to the फिल्मी उद्योग by उसके  father and appeared in several films as a child actor .
Lee moved to the United States at the age of 18 to receive his higher  शिक्षा , और it थी दौरान इस समय कि he began शिक्षण martial  arts .
His Hong Kong and Hollywood -produced films elevated the traditional Hong Kong martial arts film  to a नई स्तर of लोकप्रियता और acclaim , sparking a surge of ब्याज  in Chinese martial arts in the West in the 1970s .
The direction and tone of his films  बदला और बहकावे martial कला और martial कला  films in Hong Kong and the rest of the world .
He is noted for his roles  in पाँच feature-length films : lo वेई 's the बिग boss ( 1971 ) और मुट्ठी of फ़्यूरी ( 1972 ) ; रास्ता of the ड्रैगन ( 1972 ) , निर्देशित और लिखा  by Lee ; Warner Brothers ' Enter the Dragon ( 1973 ) and The Game of Death ( 1978 ) , both directed by Robert Clouse .
Lee became an iconic figure  ज्ञात throughout the संसार , विशेषकर among the चाइनीज , as  he portrayed Chinese nationalism in his films .
He initially trained in Wing Chun , but later rejected well-defined martial art styles , favouring instead the use of  तकनीकों इससे विभिन्न स्त्रोत , in the स्पिरिट of उसके निजी martial कला दर्शनशास्त्र , जिससे he उतावले जीत kune do ( the रास्ता of the intercepting मुट्ठी )  .
Lee held dual  नागरिकता of हांग काँग और the  United States .
He died in Kowloon  टोंग on 20 जुलाई 1973 at  age 32 .
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( COPD ) , also known as chronic obstructive lung disease (  ठंडा ) , दीर्घकालिक obstructive airway बीमारी ( coad ) , दीर्घकालिक airflow limitation ( कैलोरी ) और दीर्घकालिक obstructive respiratory बीमारी ( cord ) , is the occurrence of दीर्घकालिक ब्रोंकाइटिस or emphysema  , a pair of commonly co-existing diseases of the lungs in which the airways narrow over time .
This limits airflow to  और इससे the फेफड़े , causing shortness of साँस  ( dyspnea ) .
In clinical practice , COPD is  पारिभाषित by इसके characteristically  low airflow on lung function tests .
In contrast to asthma , this limitation is poorly  reversible और प्रायः gets progressively बदतर over समय  .
COPD is caused by noxious particles or  गैस , सबसे commonly इससे तम्बाकू धूम्रपान , जिससे triggers an असामान्य जलन जवाब in  the lung .
The diagnosis  of copd requires फेफड़ों फलन  tests .
Important management strategies are smoking  cessation , vaccinations , पुनर्वास , और ड्रग  therapy ( often using inhalers ) .
कुछ मरीजों go on to आवश्यकता long-term ऑक्सीजन चिकित्सा  or lung transplantation .
Worldwide , COPD ranked as the  छठे अग्रणी कारण of मौत in  1990 .
It is projected to become the fourth leading cause of death  विश्वव्यापी by 2030 , due to an बढ़ाएँ in धूम्रपान दरों और जनसांख्यिकी  changes in many countries .
COPD is the third leading cause of death in the U.S. ,  और the आर्थिक बोझ of copd in the u.S. in 2007 थी $ 42.6 अरब in  health care costs and lost productivity .
Annelies `` Anne '' Marie Frank ( , ? , ; 12 June 1929early March 1945 ) is one of  the सबसे discussed यहूदी पीड़ितों of the holocaust  .
Her diary has been  the आधार लिये अनेक plays और  films .
Born in the city of Frankfurt  am प्रमुख in वाइमर जर्मनी , वो  lived most of her life in or near Amsterdam , in the Netherlands .
Born a German national , Frank  खोया उसके नागरिकता in  1941 .
She  gained अंतरराष्ट्रीय कीर्ति  posthumously after her diary was published .
It documents her experiences hiding during the German  occupation of the नीदरलैंड्स  in World War II .
The Frank family moved  इससे जर्मनी to एम्सटर्डम in 1933 , the साल the nazis  gained control over Germany .
By the beginning of 1940 , they were trapped in Amsterdam by  the नाजी occupation of the नीदरलैंड्स  .
As persecutions of the Jewish population increased in July 1942 , the family went into  छुपाना in the छुपा कक्ष of ऐनी 's पिता  , Otto Frank 's , office building .
बाद दो सालो , the  group was betrayed and transported to concentration camps .
Anne Frank  और उसके सिस्टर , margot , यहूद आखिरकार transferred  to the Bergen-Belsen concentration camp , where they died of typhus in March 1945 .
ओटो फ़्रैंक , the तभी उत्तरजीवी of the परिवार , लौटे to एम्सटर्डम बाद  the war to find that Anne 's diary had been saved , and his efforts led to its publication in 1947 .
It was translated from its original Dutch and first  प्रकाशित in अंग्रेज़ी in 1952 as the डायरी of a यंग लड़की .
it रै चूंकि महरूम अनूदित  into many languages .
The diary , which was given to Anne on her 13th  जन्मदिवस , क्रॉनिकल्स उसके जीवन इससे 12 जून  1942 until 1 August 1944 .
Kurt 's  हस्ताक्षर
Kurt Donald Cobain ( February 20 , 1967 – April 5 , 1994 ) was an  अमरीकी संगीतकार और कलाकार , बेहतरीन ज्ञात as the सीसे सिंगर ,  guitarist and primary songwriter of the grunge band Nirvana .
Cobain formed Nirvana with Krist Novoselic in Aberdeen , Washington in 1985 and  स्थापित it as भाग of the सिएटल म्यूज़िक झाँकी , having इसके डेब्यू एल्बम ब्लीच released on the  independent record label Sub Pop in 1989 .
After signing with major label DGC Records , the band found breakthrough success with  `` खुश्बू जैसे टीन स्पिरिट `` इससे इसके दूसरी एल्बम nevermind  ( 1991 ) .
Following the success of Nevermind , Nirvana was labeled `` the flagship band '' of  पीढी x , और कोबेन hailed as `` the प्रवक्ता of a पीढी ''  .
Cobain , however , was often uncomfortable and frustrated , believing his message and  कलाकारी दृष्टि to have महरूम misinterpreted by the पब्लिक , साथ उसके निजी  issues often subject to media attention .
he challenged निर्वाण 's दर्शक  with its final studio album In Utero ( 1993 ) .
दौरान the पिछला सालो of उसके जीवन , कोबेन struggled साथ  heroin addiction , illness and depression .
He also had difficulty  coping साथ उसके कीर्ति और पब्लिक चित्र , और the पेशेवर और lifelong निजी  pressures surrounding himself and his wife , musician Courtney Love .
On April 8 , 1994 ,  कोबेन थी मिला मुर्दे at उसके घर in सिएटल , the शिकार  of what was officially ruled a suicide by a self-inflicted shotgun wound to the head .
The circumstances of his death at  आयु 27 have become a टॉपिक of पब्लिक fascination और  debate .
Since their debut , Nirvana , with Cobain as a  songwriter , रै बेची over 25 लाख एल्बम in the u.S. , और over 50 लाख  worldwide .
Radial  इंजन समय और कैम यांत्रिकी  .
Click  लिये पूरा रेज़ोल्यूशन  animation .
Radial engine of a  बाईप्लेन
Master rod ( upright ) ,  स्लेव और balances इससे  a two-row , fourteen-cylinder Pratt & Whitney Twin Wasp
The radial engine is a reciprocating type  आतंरिक दहन इंजन विन्यास in जिससे the सिलेंडर पाइंट outward इससे a सेंट्रल  crankshaft like the spokes of a wheel .
It  resembles a stylized स्टार जब viewed इससे the सामने , और is पुकारा  a `` star engine '' ( German Sternmotor ) in some languages .
The radial configuration was very commonly used in aircraft  इंजन पहले टर्बाइन इंजन became  predominant .
The Golden Girls is an American sitcom , created by  सुसान हैरिस , कि originally aired on एनबीसी इससे सितंबर 13 , 1985 , to  May 9 , 1992 .
Starring Bea Arthur , Betty  श्वेत , rue mcclanahan और estelle getty , the  show centers on four older women sharing a home in Miami , Florida .
It was produced by Witt/Thomas/Harris Productions , in  संघ साथ touchstone टेलीविज़न , और पॉल junger witt , टोनी थामस  , and Harris served as the original executive producers .
The Golden Girls received critical acclaim throughout most of its run and won several awards , including  the प्राइमटाइम एमी पुरस्कार लिये बकाया कॉमेडी श्रेणी  twice .
it भी जीती तीन सुनहरी ग्लोब पुरस्कार  for Best Television Series – Musical or Comedy .
All four stars each received an Emmy Award throughout  the श्रेणी ' चलाएं और था अनेक nominations  .
The series  भी क्रमित among the शीर्ष टेन highest-rated कार्यक्रम  for six out of its seven seasons .
Deepwater drilling is  the प्रक्रम of आयल और गैस खोजी और उत्पादन  in depths of more than 500 feet .
By this definition , there are  लगभग 600 deepwater कुएं in the गल्फ of मैक्सिको  .
It has been economically infeasible for many years  , लकिन साथ उठती आयल कीमतें , अधिक कंपनियाँ हैं निवेश in  this area .
Major companies working in this  सेक्टर शामिल डायमंड offshore , transocean  , and Baker Hughes .
There are basically two kinds of mobile deepwater  खुदाई rigs : semi-submersible  drilling rigs and drillships .
Drilling can also be  performed इससे a fixed-position संस्थापना ऐसे as a फ्लोटिंग spar  ( platform ) or tension-leg platform .
Recent industry analysis has estimated that the total expenditure in  the वैश्विक deepwater अवसंरचना मार्केट होगा पहुँचें $ 145bn  in 2011 .
“Not  सब आयल is accessible on  land or in shallow water .
You can find some oil  जमा दफ्न गहन अंतर्गत the समंदर floor.” ... using सोनिक उपकरण  , oil companies determine the drilling sites most likely to produce oil .
Then they use a mobile  offshore खुदाई ईकाई ( मोदू  ) to dig the initial well .
Some units are converted into production rigs , meaning they  स्विच इससे खुदाई लिये आयल to capturing आयल एकबार it 's मिला  .
Most  of the समय , the आयल कम्पनी होगा बदलें the मोदू  with a more permanent oil production rig to capture oil.” ... The MODU 's job is to drill down into the ocean 's floor to find oil deposits .
The part of the drill that extends  नीचे the डेक और through the  water is called the riser .
The riser allows for drilling fluids to  मूव between the मंजिल और the  rig .
इंजीनियर्स निम्नतर a ड्रिल स्ट्रिंग -- a श्रेणी of पाइप designed  to drill down to the oil deposit -- through the riser.”
“the विस्तार of deepwater खुदाई is happening  despite accidents in offshore fields ... ”
In 2010 a large explosion  occurred हत्या 11 मजदूर और spilling लाखो of गैलन of आयल into the  Gulf of Mexico while a BP oil rig was drilling in deep waters .
“ ...  despite the risks , the deepwater खुदाई ट्रेंड is spreading in the भूमध्यसागरीय और बंद the coast  of East Africa after a string of huge discoveries of natural gas.”
“The reason for the resumption of such drilling ,  विश्लेषक कह , is continuing ऊँची माँग लिये उर्जा  worldwide.”
America needs the oil so it is almost necessary to  फेस the ऊँची risks कि आइये साथ deepwater खुदाई in  order for Americans to continue to carry on their everyday lives .
“The Energy Department recently projected that gulf oil production would expand from its 2011  स्तर of 1.3 लाख barrels a दिन , स्टिल nearly a क्वार्टर of कुल घरेलू  production , to 2 million barrels a day by 2020.”
Deepwater drilling affects  the पर्यावरण in दोनो ऋणात्मक और  positive ways .
Although  deepwater खुदाई rarely कल्याणकारी आयल spills it is स्टिल  a hazardous possible outcome .
Oil spills result in oil sinking to the bottom of  the समंदर smothering संयंत्र जीवन leaving मछली बगैर खाना और  shelter to survive .
On the other hand deepwater  खुदाई प्रभाव the पर्यावरण in  a positive ways too .
In time once the deepwater oil well is not in  उपयोग anymore पौधे होगा grow on और around  the well making a cave or cavern like shelter ideal for animals to thrive in .
Deepwater drilling also lets us see the  गहराइयों of the समंदर मंजिल कि  are hardly ever seen .
”Cameras on rovers at the bottom of the wells record footage and take  फ़ोटो of विरल मछली कि हैं in वहीँ प्राकृतिक आवास , giving वैज्ञानिक a dekh at पशु वे rarely seen”  ( Chevron Corporation ) . ''
Monica Samille Lewinsky ( born July 23 , 1973 ) is an American woman with  जिसको संयुक्त राज्य अध्यक्ष विधेयक क्लिंटन admitted to having था an  `` improper relationship '' while she worked at the White House in 1995 and 1996 .
The affair and its  परखना ( जिससे शामिल  Clinton 's impeachment ) became known as the Lewinsky scandal .
फ्रांसिस अल्बर्ट `` फ़्रैंक '' सिनात्रा , , ( दिसम्बर  12 , 1915 – May 14 , 1998 ) was an American singer and film actor .
Beginning his musical career in the swing era with Harry James and Tommy Dorsey , Sinatra found unprecedented success as a solo  कलाकार इससे the जल्दी to mid-1940s बाद होने हस्ताक्षरित to कोलंबिया रिकॉर्ड  in 1943 .
होने the आइडल of the `` bobby soxers `` , he released उसके पहला  album , The Voice of Frank Sinatra in 1946 .
उसके पेशेवर करियर था stalled by the 1950s , लकिन it थी पुनर्जन्म in  1953 after he won the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor for his performance in From Here to Eternity .
He signed with Capitol Records in 1953 and  released अनेक critically lauded एल्बम ( ऐसे as in the मूत छोटी घंटों , गीतों लिये swingin ' प्रेमियों ! ,  Come Fly with Me , Only the Lonely and Nice 'n ' Easy ) .
Sinatra left Capitol to found his own record label , Reprise Records in 1961 ( finding success with albums such as Ring-a-Ding-Ding ! , Sinatra at the Sands and Francis Albert Sinatra & Antonio Carlos Jobim ) , toured internationally , was a founding member of the Rat Pack and  fraternized साथ हस्तियाँ और कूटनीतिज्ञों , सहित जॉन F. कैनेडी  .
Sinatra  turned 50 in 1965 , अंकित the retrospective सितंबर of my सालो , स्ट्रक्चर in the एमी -winning टेलीविज़न  special Frank Sinatra : A Man and His Music , and scored hits with `` Strangers in the Night `` and `` My Way `` .
With sales of his music  dwindling और बाद appearing in अनेक poorly प्राप्त films ,  Sinatra retired for the first time in 1971 .
Two years later , however , he came out of retirement and in  1973 अंकित अनेक एल्बम , स्कोरिंग a शीर्ष 40 hit साथ `` ( थीम इससे ) नई  York , New York `` in 1980 .
Using his Las Vegas shows as a home base , he toured both within the United States and internationally  , जबतक a छोटी समय पहले उसके मौत in  1998 .
Sinatra also  forged a अत्यधिक कामयाब करियर  as a film actor .
After winning Best Supporting Actor in 1953 , he also garnered a  नामांकन लिये बेहतरीन कर्ता लिये the man साथ the सुनहरी भुजा , और नाजुक acclaim लिये  his performance in The Manchurian Candidate .
He also starred in such musicals as High Society , Pal  जॉय , यारों और डॉल  and On the Town .
Sinatra was  सम्मानित at the कैनेडी बीच honors in 1983 और थी awarded the अध्यक्षीय पदक of  Freedom by Ronald Reagan in 1985 and the Congressional Gold Medal in 1997 .
He was the recipient of eleven Grammy Awards , including the Grammy Trustees Award ,  ग्रैमी लेजेंड पुरस्कार और the ग्रैमी आजीवन उपलब्धि  Award .
Sinatra is also one of  world’s best-selling कलाकारों of सब समय , having बेची अधिक  than 150 million copies worldwide .
ठेठ cornhole  board
Cornhole , also known as bean bag toss , corn toss , baggo or bags , is a lawn game in which players take turns throwing corn hole bags at  a उठाया मंच साथ a छेद in the दूर  end .
A bag in the  छेद स्कोर 3 अंक , जबकि एक  on the platform scores 1 point .
Play continues until  a टोली or खिलाड़ी  reaches the score of 21 .
The American Gold Eagle  is an आधिकारिक सुनहरा bullion  coin of the United States .
Authorized under the Gold Bullion Coin Act of 1985 , it was  पहला released by the संयुक्त राज्य मिंट in 1986  .
Bikram Yoga is a system of yoga that Bikram Choudhury synthesized  इससे परंपरागत hatha योग तकनीकों और popularized शुरूआत in  the early 1970s .
All Bikram Yoga classes  चलाएं लिये 90 मिनट्स और consist of the वही  series of 26 postures and 2 breathing exercises .
Bikram Yoga is ideally practiced in a room heated to 105°F ( ≈  40.6°c ) साथ a आर्द्रता of 40 % ,  .
Christopher Michael Massey ( born 26 January 1990  ) is an अमरीकी कर्ता , हास्य और rapper बेहतरीन ज्ञात लिये अभिनीत as माइकल barret in निकलोडियन  television series Zoey 101 .
Massey has received many awards and nomination  सहित a यंग कलाकार पुरस्कार और एमी पुरस्कार  nominations .
He is also  ज्ञात लिये appearing in अनेक  commercials in the early 2000s .
A conventional  teaspoon बना of बेदाग स्टील  .
A teaspoon is an item of cutlery and/or a measuring instrument , as well as a  ईकाई of मापन  of volume in some countries and customs .
a फर्न is कोई एक or अधिक of a समूह  of about 12,000 species of plants belonging to the botanical group known as Pteridophyta .
Unlike mosses , they have xylem and  फ्लोएम ( बनाना उन्हें vascular  plants ) .
They have stems  , पत्ते , और जड़ें जैसे अन्य  vascular plants .
Ferns reproduce via spores and have neither seeds  nor पुष्प .
By far the largest group of ferns is the leptosporangiate ferns , but ferns as defined here ( also called  monilophytes ) शामिल horsetails , whisk ferns , marattioid ferns  , and ophioglossoid ferns .
The term pteridophyte also refers to  ferns और a few अन्य बीजरहित vascular पौधे ( देखिए वर्गीकरण  section below ) .
Ferns first appear in the fossil record 360 million years ago in the Carboniferous but many of the current families and species did not  appear जबतक roughly 145 लाख सालो पहले in the जल्दी cretaceous ( बाद flowering पौधे आए to dominate अनेक environments ) .
Ferns are not of major economic importance , but some are grown or gathered for food , as ornamental plants , for  remediating contaminated soils , और have महरूम the विषय of शोध लिये उनके क्षमता to हटाएँ कुछ रासायनिक प्रदूषक  from the air .
Some are  significant weeds  .
वे भी खेल a भूमिका in mythology  , medicine , and art .
Flat  roofs in इसराईल
Flat  छत in लॉस एंजिल्स
A flat roof is a  प्रकार of covering लिये a भवन  .
In contrast to the more sloped form of roof , a  चपटा छत is आड़ा or  nearly horizontal .
The slope of a roof is properly known as  इसके पिच : roofs जिससे हैं nearly चपटा हैं ज्ञात as low-pitch  roofs ( as the angle of slope increases , so the pitch is said to increase ) .
Any sheet of material used to cover a flat or low-pitched roof is usually  ज्ञात as a झिल्ली और the प्राथमिक purpose of ये झिल्लियों is to waterproof the  roof area .
Materials that cover flat roofs typically allow the water  to चलाएं बंद इससे a पतला inclination or camber into a gutter प्रणाली  .
Water from some flat roofs such as on garden sheds sometimes  बहती freely बंद the किनारे of a छत , हालांकि gutter प्रणालियों हैं of लाभ in  keeping both walls and foundations dry .
Gutters on smaller roofs often lead water directly  onto the मैदान , or बेहतर , into a विशेषकर बना soakaway  .
Gutters on larger roofs usually  सीसे जल into the rainwater नाले प्रणाली of कोई निर्मित up  area .
Occasionally flat roofs though are designed to  collect जल in a पूल , प्रायः लिये aesthetic उद्देश्य  , or for rainwater buffering .
चपटा roofs मौजूद सब over the संसार और  each area has its own tradition or preference for materials used .
In warmer climes where rainfall is less and freezing is unlikely to occur , many flat roofs  हैं बस निर्मित of चिनाई or कंक्रीट और इस is शुभ at keeping आउट the ऊष्मा of the सूर्य और सस्ती और  easy to build where timber is not readily available .
In areas where the roof could  become संतृप्त by बरसात और लीक , or जहाँ जल soaked  into the brickwork could freeze to ice and thus lead to 'blowing ' ( breaking up of the mortar/brickwork/concrete by the expansion of ice as it forms ) these roofs are not suitable .
traditionally सबसे चपटा roofs in the पश्चिमी संसार मेक उपयोग of तारकोल or अधिक प्रायः  tar paper applied over roof decking to keep a building watertight .
The tar or tarpaper is in turn  covered in बजरी to रखना the सूर्य 's ऊष्मा , uv किरणें और मौसम बंद it और helps protect it इससे  cracking or blistering and degradation .
Roof decking is usually of plywood ,  chipboard or osb फलक ( osb = उन्मुख strand फलक ,  also known as Sterling board ) of around 18mm thickness .
The tar coating is applied in one or more coats as a hot  द्रव , heated in a तारकोल केतली , or as चादरें of तारकोल impregnated 'paper ' चिपके bas और sealed साथ at joints by hot तारकोल - एकबार  it has cooled , the gravel is spread evenly over it .
A main reason for failure of these traditional roofs is  अनभिज्ञता or कमी of मेंटेनेंस जहाँ लोगों or कार्यक्रम कारण the बजरी to be स्थानांतरित or removed इससे the तारकोल or tarpaper waterproofing , यूँ exposing  it to weather and sun whereupon cracking and blistering occurs over time and eventually water gets in .
Tarpaper is usually a 'paper ' or  fibre सामग्री soaked or impregnated  in tar .
As gravel can not protect tarpaper surfaces where they rise  खड़ा इससे the छत ऐसे as on मुंडेर दीवारें or upstands , tarpaper विसंगतियाँ हैं उत्पादित साथ ठीक बजरी लागू to the hot तारकोल दौरान the प्रक्रम  of manufacture such that a permanent layer of gravel is stuck to it in order to give it ongoing protection .
Tarpapers vary in quality as does the workmanship and training of those  applying it to उपज अधिक or कम कामयाब परिणाम  .
In some micro climates or shaded areas these rather 'basic ' tarpaper roofs can last well in relation to the cost  of सामग्री खरीदें और लागत of लेटा उन्हें , however the लागत of आधुनिक झिल्लियों ऐसे as epdm रै आइये bas  over recent years to make them more and more affordable .
There are now more firms supplying modern alternatives and there  is generally a growing जागरूकता of उनके प्रदर्शन  and availability .
If a leak does occur on a flat roof then damage often  goes unnoticed लिये long अवधि of समय दौरान जिससे जल penetrates और soaks the अलंकार और कोई  insulation and/or structure beneath it .
This can lead to expensive damage from  the दुर्गन्ध जिससे प्रायः develops और if  left can weaken the roof structure .
There are also various health risks to people and animals  श्वास the सांचे बीजाणुओं : the गंभीरता of इस स्वास्थ्य  risk remains a debated point .
One problem  साथ maintaining चपटा roofs is कि if जल करता घुस the अवरोध covering ( be it परंपरागत  or a modern membrane ) it can travel a long way before causing visible damage or leaking into a building where it can be seen .
Thus it  is नहीं आसान to देखिए जहाँ it is टपकती  in order to repair it .
Once underlying roof decking is soaked it often sags causing a  further संग्रहण or puddling of जल in कि क्षेत्रफल और the प्रॉब्लम worsens  .
A CD-ROM ( ) is a  pre-pressed कॉम्पैक्ट डिस्क जिससे contains  data .
The name  is an एक्रोनिम जिससे स्टैंड लिये `` कॉम्पैक्ट  Disc Read-only memory `` .
Computers can  पढ़ा cd-roms , लकिन can नहीं लिखें  on them .
CD-ROMs are popularly used to  वितरित कंप्यूटर तन्त्र , सहित वीडियो खेल और मल्टीमीडिया  applications , though any data can be stored ( up to the capacity limit of a disc ) .
Some CDs ,  पुकारा उन्नत cds , थाम दोनो कंप्यूटर आंकड़ा और ऑडियो साथ the latter सक्षम of होने निभाई on a cd खिलाड़ी , जबकि  data ( such as software or digital video ) is only usable on a computer ( such as ISO 9660 format PC CD-ROMs ) .
The Yellow Book is  the तकनीकी मानक कि defines the स्वरूप  of CD-ROMs .
One of a set of color-bound books that contain the technical specifications for all CD formats , the  पीला किताब , निर्मित by सोनी और फिलिप्स , थी the पहला एक्सटेंशन of  Compact Disc Digital Audio .
It  adapted the स्वरूप  to hold any form of data .
Joanne `` Jo '' Rowling ( ) , ( born 31 July 1965 ) , pen name J.  K. रोलिंग , is a अंग्रेजों उपन्यासकार , बेहतरीन ज्ञात as the लेखक of  the Harry Potter fantasy series .
the कुम्हार किताबे have gained विश्वव्यापी ध्यान , जीती अनेक  awards , and sold more than 400 million copies .
They have become the best-selling book series in  इतिहास , और महरूम the आधार लिये a श्रेणी of films जिससे रै become the  highest-grossing film series in history .
Rowling had overall approval on the scripts  as खूब as maintaining रचनात्मक कंट्रोल by सेवारत  as a producer on the final instalment .
Born in Yate , Gloucestershire , Rowling was working as a researcher  और दुभाषिया सचिव लिये माफ़ी अंतरराष्ट्रीय जब वो conceived the विचार लिये the हैरी कुम्हार श्रेणी on a विलम्बित ट्रैन इससे  Manchester to London in 1990 .
The seven-year period that followed entailed the  मौत of उसके माँ , तलाक इससे उसके पहला husband और गरीबी जबतक रोलिंग समाप्त the पहला अनोखा in the श्रेणी , हैरी  Potter and the Philosopher 's Stone ( 1997 ) .
Rowling subsequently published 6 sequels—the  पिछला , हैरी कुम्हार और the deathly hallows ( 2007 ) —as खूब  as 3 supplements to the series .
In 2012 ,  रोलिंग parted साथ उसके एजेंसी और resumed लिखने  in the form of a tragicomedy novel aimed at adult readership , entitled The Casual Vacancy .
Rowling has said she is currently working on two books—one aimed for  वयस्कों , the अन्य लिये children younger than the हैरी कुम्हार दर्शक , और वो expects the  latter to be published first .
Rowling has led a `` rags to riches `` life story , in which she  progressed इससे जीना on राज्य लाभ to multi-millionaire औकात भीतर  five years .
She is the United Kingdom 's best-selling  लेखक चूंकि रिकॉर्ड began , साथ बिक्री in excess  of £238m .
The 2008 Sunday Times Rich List  अनुमानित रोलिंग 's सौभाग्य at £560 लाख ( $ 798 लाख ) , रैंकिंग उसके as the बारहवीं richest स्त्री in the  United Kingdom .
Forbes ranked Rowling as the forty-eighth most powerful celebrity of  2007 , और समय पत्रिका नामित उसके as a runner-up लिये इसके 2007 व्यक्ति of the साल , noting  the social , moral , and political inspiration she has given her fans .
In October  2010 , रोलिंग थी नामित the `` सबसे influential स्त्री in ब्रिटेन  '' by leading magazine editors .
She has become a notable philanthropist , supporting such charities as Comic Relief , One Parent Families ,  अनेक काठिन्य समाज of ग्रेट ब्रिटेन और lumos ( formerly the children 's ऊँची स्तर  Group ) .
Auburndale is a  नगर in polk काउंटी , फ्लोरिडा  , United States .
The population was 11,032  at the 2000 जनसांख्यिकी  .
According to the U.S Census estimates of  2005 , the नगर था  a population of 12,381 .
It is part  of the lakeland – शीत हेवन महानगर  Statistical Area .
Hurricane Isabel ( 2003 ) as seen  इससे कक्षा दौरान expedition 7 of the  International Space Station .
the नजर , eyewall , और surrounding rainbands , विशेषताएँ of  tropical cyclones , are clearly visible in this view from space .
A tropical cyclone is a storm system characterized by a low-pressure center surrounded by a  सर्पिल व्यवस्था of thunderstorms कि उपज दमदार हवाएँ और भारी  rain .
Tropical cyclones  strengthen जब जल काफूर इससे the समंदर is released as the संतृप्त एयर उदय , resulting in संघनन  of water vapor contained in the moist air .
वे हैं fueled by a अलग ऊष्मा यांत्रिकी than अन्य cyclonic windstorms ऐसे  as nor'easters , European windstorms , and polar lows .
The characteristic that separates  तीव्र cyclones इससे अन्य cyclonic प्रणालियों is कि at कोई ऊँचाई in the माहौल , the बीच  of a tropical cyclone will be warmer than its surroundings ; a phenomenon called `` warm core `` storm systems .
The term `` tropical '' refers both to the geographical origin of these systems ,  जिससे प्रायः रूप in तीव्र regions of the ग्लोब , और to उनके गठन in  maritime tropical air masses .
The term `` cyclone '' refers to such storms '  cyclonic प्रकृति , साथ counterclockwise हवा  flow in the Northern Hemisphere and clockwise wind flow in the Southern Hemisphere .
The opposite direction of the  हवा प्रवाह is a परिणाम  of the Coriolis force .
Depending on its  स्थान और शक्ति , a तीव्र चक्रवात is referred to by names ऐसे as hurricane  ( , ) , typhoon ( ) , tropical storm , cyclonic storm , tropical depression , and simply cyclone .
While  तीव्र cyclones can उपज अत्यधिक शक्तिशाली हवाएँ और मूसलाधार बरसात  , they are also able to produce high waves , damaging storm surge , and tornadoes .
They develop over large bodies of warm water , and lose their strength if  वे मूव over जमीन due to increased सतह घर्षण और घाटा of the गरम समंदर as an उर्जा  source .
This is why coastal regions can receive significant  क्षति इससे a तीव्र चक्रवात , जबकि अंतर्देशीय regions हैं अपेक्षाकृत सुरक्षित इससे  receiving strong winds .
Heavy  rains , however , can उपज significant बाढ़ अंतर्देशीय , और तूफ़ान  surges can produce extensive coastal flooding up to from the coastline .
Although their effects on human  populations can be विनाशकारी  , tropical cyclones can relieve drought conditions .
They also carry heat energy away from the tropics and  हस्तांतरण it toward शीतोष्ण latitudes , जिससे makes उन्हें  an important part of the global atmospheric circulation mechanism .
as a परिणाम , तीव्र cyclones सहायता to maintain संतुलन in the धरती 's क्षोभमण्डल , और  to maintain a relatively stable and warm temperature worldwide .
Many tropical cyclones develop  जब the वायुमंडलीय शर्तें around a कमजोर disturbance in  the atmosphere are favorable .
The background environment is modulated by climatological cycles and patterns such as the  madden-julian दोलन , el niño-southern दोलन , और the अटलांटिक  multidecadal oscillation .
Others form when other  प्रकार of cyclones acquire तीव्र  characteristics .
Tropical systems are then moved by steering winds in  the क्षोभमण्डल ; if the शर्तें remain अनुकूल , the तीव्र disturbance intensifies  , and can even develop an eye .
On the other end of the spectrum , if the conditions around the  प्रणाली deteriorate or the तीव्र चक्रवात makes landfall , the प्रणाली weakens और आखिरकार  dissipates .
It  is नहीं संभावित to artificially induce the  dissipation of these systems with current technology .
Kirk Douglas ( born Issur Danielovitch , ;  दिसम्बर 9 , 1916 ) is an अमरीकी स्टेज और फिल्मी कर्ता , फिल्मी निर्माता  and author .
His popular films include Out of the Past ( 1947 ) , Champion ( 1949 ) , Ace in the Hole ( 1951 ) , The Bad and the  खूबसूरत ( 1952 ) , 20,000 लीग अंतर्गत the समुद्र ( 1954 ) , हवस लिये जीवन ( 1956 ) , राहें of महिमा ( 1957 ) , gunfight at the o.k . corral ( 1957 ) , the वाइकिंग्स ( 1958 ) , स्पार्टाकस ( 1960 ) , निर्जन हैं the वीर ( 1962 ) , सात दिनों in may ( 1964 ) , the नायक of telemark ( 1965  ) and Tough Guys ( 1986 ) .
He is No.17 on the American Film Institute 's list of the greatest male American  स्क्रीन महापुरूष of सब समय , बनाना उसे the highest-ranked  living person on the list .
In  1996 , he प्राप्त the अकादमी मानद पुरस्कार `` लिये  50 years as a creative and moral force in the motion picture community . ''
He is one of the last surviving actors from  हॉलीवुड 's `` सुनहरी आयु ''  .
Robert Clark `` Bob '' Seger ( born May 6 , 1945 ) is an  अमरीकी चट्टान और फेंकें singer-songwriter  , guitarist and pianist .
As a locally successful Detroit-area artist , he performed and recorded as Bob Seger  और the पिछला सुना और bob seger प्रणाली throughout  the 1960s .
By the early 1970s , he had dropped the `` System ''  इससे उसके रिकार्डिंग और जारी to नीयत लिये broader कामयाबी  with other various bands .
In 1973 , he put together The Silver Bullet Band , a group of  detroit-area संगीतकारों , साथ जिसको he became  most successful on the national level with the album Live Bullet , recorded live with the Silver Bullet Band in 1975 at Cobo Hall in Detroit , Michigan .
In 1976  , he हासिल a नेशनल ब्रेकआउट साथ  the studio album Night Moves .
On his studio albums , he also  worked extensively साथ the alabama-based मांसपेशी shoals लय खण्ड , जिससे appeared  on several of Seger 's best-selling singles and albums .
A roots rocker with a classic raspy , shouting voice , Seger wrote and  अंकित गीतों कि dealt साथ प्रेम , महिलाओं , blue-collar विषयवस्तु और थी an exemplar of heartland  rock .
Seger has recorded many hits ,  सहित `` रात्रि चालें , '' `` फेरे the पेज , '' `` we 've मिला tonight , '' `` विरूद्ध the हवा , '' और shakedown कि  was written for Beverly Hills Cop II and `` Like a Rock , '' and also co-wrote the Eagles ' number-one hit `` Heartache Tonight . ''
His iconic recording of `` Old  समय चट्टान और फेंकें `` थी नामित एक of the गीतों  of the Century in 2001 .
With a career spanning five decades ,  seger continues to perform  and record today .
Seger was  inducted into the चट्टान और फेंकें हॉल of कीर्ति in 2004 और the songwriters  Hall of Fame in 2012 .
Richard Milhous Nixon ( January 9 , 1913 – April 22 , 1994 ) was the 37th President of the  संयुक्त राज्य , सेवारत इससे 1969 to 1974 , जब he became the तभी अध्यक्ष to इस्तीफा the  office .
Nixon had previously served as  a रिपब्लिकन u.S. प्रतिनिधि और सीनेटर  from California and as the 36th Vice President of the United States from 1953 to 1961 .
निक्सन थी born in  Yorba Linda , California .
He graduated from Whittier College in 1934 and Duke University  स्कूल of विधि in 1937 , returning to कैलिफ़ोर्निया  to practice law .
He and his wife ,  पैट निक्सन , स्थानांतरित to वॉशिंगटन to कार्य लिये the संघीय  government in 1942 .
He  subsequently परोसा in the संयुक्त राज्य नेवी दौरान  World War II .
Nixon was elected in  कैलिफ़ोर्निया to the हाउस of प्रतिनिधि in 1946 और to the  Senate in 1950 .
His pursuit of the Alger Hiss  मामला स्थापित उसके प्रतिष्ठा as a अग्रणी anti-communist , और  elevated him to national prominence .
He was the running mate  of ड्वाइट D. आइज़नहावर , the रिपब्लिकन पार्टी अध्यक्षीय  nominee in the 1952 election .
Nixon served  लिये आठ सालो as वाइस अध्यक्ष  .
He waged an unsuccessful presidential campaign  in 1960 , narrowly खोने to जॉन F. कैनेडी , और खोया a रेस लिये राज्यपाल of कैलिफ़ोर्निया  in 1962 .
In  1968 , he भागा again लिये the  presidency and was elected .
Although Nixon  initially escalated अमेरिका 's भागीदारी in the वियतनाम युद्ध  , he subsequently ended U.S. involvement in 1973 .
Nixon 's visit to the People 's Republic of China in 1972 opened diplomatic  संबंध between the दो राष्ट्र , और he initiated détente और the anti-ballistic मिसाइल सन्धि साथ  the Soviet Union the same year .
Domestically , his  प्रशासन generally embraced नीतियों कि transferred शक्ति इससे  Washington to the states .
Among other things , he launched initiatives to fight  कर्कट और illegal दवाएँ , imposed मजदूरी और दाम नियंत्रण , enforced desegregation of कुछ दक्षिणी स्कूलों  , and established the Environmental Protection Agency .
Though he presided over the lunar landings beginning  साथ अपोलो 11 , he scaled वापस मानवयुक्त स्पेस खोजी  .
He was  re-elected by a भूस्खलन  in 1972 .
Nixon 's second term saw an Arab oil embargo , the resignation of his vice president , Spiro  agnew , और a continuing श्रेणी of खुलासे परिचय the वाटरगेट कांड और अन्य misconduct by सदस्यों of  the administration .
The scandal  escalated , costing निक्सन much of उसके राजनैतिक support , और on  August 9 , 1974 , he resigned in the face of almost certain impeachment and removal from office .
After his resignation , he controversially  प्राप्त a pardon जारी by उसके successor , जेराल्ड  Ford .
In retirement , Nixon 's work as an  elder statesman , authoring अनेक किताबे और undertaking अनेक  foreign trips , helped to rehabilitate his public image .
He suffered a  debilitating स्ट्रोक on अप्रैल 18  , 1994 , and died four days later at the age of 81 .
{ {  infobox  Senator
The Dominican Republic annexation treaty  caused कड़वा contention between अध्यक्ष ग्रान्ट  and Sen. Sumner .
Brady  1869 ]  ]
Sen. Sumner , opposed to American imperialism in  the caribbean और fearful कि annexation होता सीसे to the conquest of the neighboring  black republic of Haiti , became convinced that corruption lay behind the treaty , and that men close to the president shared in the corruption .
As chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee ,  sen. sumner initially withheld उसके राय on the सन्धि  on January 18 , 1870 .
Sen. Sumner had been leaked information from Assistant Secretary of State , Bancroft  डेविस , कि u.s . नवल जहाजों यहूद होने प्रयुक्त to protect अध्यक्ष báez .
Sen. Sumner 's committee voted against  annexation और at sen. sumner’s सुझाव और काफी संभवतः to सहेजें the पार्टी इससे  an ugly fight or the president from embarrassment , the Senate held its debate of the treaty behind closed doors in executive session .
अध्यक्ष ग्रान्ट persisted और भेजा संदेश to कॉंग्रेस in एहसान of annexation  on March 14 , 1870 , and May 31 , 1870 .
In closed session , Sen. Sumner spoke out against the treaty ; warnng  कि वहीँ होता be परेशानी साथ the विदेशी नागरिकों , noting the दीर्घकालिक विद्रोह कि took प्लेस on the द्वीप , और the रिस्क कि the  independence of Haiti , recognized by the United States in 1862 , would be lost .
Sumner stated that  ग्रान्ट 's उपयोग of the u.S. नेवी as a प्रोटेक्टोरेट थी  a violation of International law and unconstitutional .
Finally ,  on जून 30 , 1870 the सन्धि थी voted on by the सीनेट और विफल to  gain the required 2/3 majority for treaty passage .
The following day ,  अध्यक्ष ग्रान्ट , अहसास गद्दारी by sen. sumner , retaliated  by ordering the dismissal of Sumner’s close friend J. Lothrop Motley , Ambassador to Britain .
By autumn , Sumner 's personal hostility to the  अध्यक्ष थी पब्लिक ज्ञान , और he blamed the सचिव of राज्य लिये failing  to have resigned , rather than let Grant have his way .
The two men ,  मित्रों जबतक तब , cooled into कड़वा  enemies .
In December , 1870 , still fearful that Grant meant to acquire Santo  डोमिंगो somehow , sumner दिया a fiercely नाजुक वाक accusing the अध्यक्ष of usurpation  and Babcock of unethical conduct .
Already , President Grant ,  समर्थित by उसके सचिव of राज्य हैमिल्टन मछली , था initiated a अभियान  to depose Sumner from the chairmanship of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee .
Although Sumner stated he was an `` Administration man '' , in addition to having stopped Grant 's Dominican Republic treaty attempt , Sumner had  पराजित ग्रान्ट 's पूरा repeal of the कार्यकाल of दफ्तर अधिनियम , अवरोधित ग्रान्ट 's नामांकन of सिकंदर स्टीवर्ट to u.S. सचिव of राजकोष , और महरूम a  constant harassing force pushing Reconstruction policies faster than Grant had been willing to go .
Grant  resented sumner 's बड़प्पन  of manner , as well .
Told  एकबार कि sumner किया नहीं मानना in the बाइबल , the अध्यक्ष is supposed  to have said that he was not surprised : `` he did n't write it . ''
As the rift  between ग्रान्ट और sumner increased , sumner’s  health began to decline .
When the 42nd U.S. Congress convened on March 4 , 1871 ,  सीनेटरों संबद्ध साथ अध्यक्ष ग्रान्ट , ज्ञात as ‘’new radicals’’ voted  to oust Sen. Sumner from the Senate Foreign Relations Committee chairmanship .
Business ethics ( also corporate ethics ) is a form of applied ethics or professional  आचार कि examines नैतिक सिद्धान्त और moral or नैतिक  problems that arise in a business environment .
It applies to all  पहलुओं of कारोबार conduct और is प्रासंगिक to  the conduct of individuals and entire organizations .
Business  आचार रै दोनो normative  and descriptive dimensions .
As a corporate practice  और a करियर specialization , the फ़ील्ड is primarily  normative .
Academics attempting to understand  कारोबार बर्ताव employ वर्णनात्मक विधि  .
The range and quantity of  कारोबार नैतिक मुद्दे reflects the बातचीत of profit-maximizing  behavior with non-economic concerns .
Interest in business ethics accelerated dramatically  दौरान the 1980s और 1990s , दोनो भीतर प्रमुख corporations  and within academia .
For example , today most major corporations promote their  प्रतिबद्धता to non-economic मान अंतर्गत headings ऐसे as आचार कोड और सोशल  responsibility charters .
Adam Smith said , `` People of the same trade seldom meet  साथ , भी लिये merriment और diversion , लकिन the वार्तालाप ends in a षड्यंत्र विरूद्ध  the public , or in some contrivance to raise prices . ''
सरकारें उपयोग कानून और regulations to पाइंट कारोबार  behavior in what they perceive to be beneficial directions .
Ethics  implicitly regulates क्षेत्रों और विवरण of  behavior that lie beyond governmental control .
The emergence of large corporations with limited  संबंध और संवेदनशीलता to the समुदायों in जिससे  they operate accelerated the development of formal ethics regimes .
A burn is a type of injury to flesh or skin caused by heat  , विद्युत , रसायन , घर्षण , or विकिरण  .
Most burns affect only the superficial skin ( known as superficial or first degree ) or  extend into the deeper स्किन लकिन do नहीं involve the पूरा मोटाई of the स्किन  ( known as partial thickness or second degree ) .
Rarely  सब परतों of the स्किन or deeper ऊतकों , ऐसे as मांसपेशी or अस्थि can be घायल in जिससे  case the burn is either full thickness ( third degree ) or fourth degree .
The treatment required  depends on the गंभीरता of  the burn .
Superficial burns maybe managed with little more than simple pain killers while  प्रमुख burns may आवश्यकता prolonged उपचार in specialized बर्न centers  .
कूलिंग साथ tap जल may सहायता पीड़ा और घटी क्षति however if एक्सपोज़र  is prolonged it may result in low body temperature .
Partial thickness burns may require cleaning with  साबुन और जल followed by dressings  .
Blisters  चाहिए typically  be left unbroken .
Full thickness burns usually require  सर्जिकल उपचार ऐसे as स्किन कलम  and extensive burns often require large amount of intravenous fluids .
The most  आम जटिलताओं of burns हैं  related to infection .
While large burns can be fatal , modern  उपचार विकसित in the पिछला 50 सालो have significantly improved the outcomes  , especially in children and young adults .
Globally about 11 million  लोगों तलाश चिकित्सा उपचार  and 300,000 people die from burns .
In the United States ,  of those admitted to a बर्न बीच , लगभग 4  % die from their injuries .
The long term outcome is  primarily सम्बन्धित to the आकार of बर्न  and the age of the person effected .
The Atlantic Ocean , not  सहित आर्कटिक और  Antarctic regions
This video was taken by the crew of  expedition 29 on फलक the  ISS .
The pass starts from just north-east of the  द्वीप of न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड over the उत्तर अटलांटिक समंदर to सेंट्रल  Africa , over South Sudan .
The Atlantic  समंदर is the second-largest of the संसार 's oceanic  divisions .
With a total area of about , it covers  लगभग 20 प्रतिशत of the धरती 's सतह और परिचय 29 प्रतिशत of इसके जल  surface area .
The first part of its  नाम refers to एटलस of यूनानी mythology  , making the Atlantic the `` Sea of Atlas '' .
The oldest known mention of `` Atlantic '' is in The Histories of Herodotus around 450 BC ( Hdt .  1.202.4 ) : अटलांटिस थलैसा ( यूनानी  : Ἀτλαντὶς θάλασσα ; English : Sea of Atlas ) .
The term Ethiopic Ocean , derived from Ethiopia , was  लागू to the दक्षिणी अटलांटिक as लेट as the mid-19th सदी  .
Before Europeans discovered other oceans , the term `` ocean '' itself was synonymous with the waters beyond the  जलसन्धि of जिब्राल्टर कि we अभी जान as the  Atlantic .
The early Greeks believed this  समंदर to be a gigantic नदी encircling the  world .
The Atlantic Ocean  occupies an elongated , s-shaped जलाशय extending longitudinally between  Eurasia and Africa to the east , and the Americas to the west .
As one component of the interconnected global ocean , it is connected in the north to the Arctic Ocean ( which is sometimes  माना a समुद्र of the अटलांटिक ) , to the प्रशांत समंदर in the दक्षिणपश्चिम , the  Indian Ocean in the southeast , and the Southern Ocean in the south .
( Other  परिभाषाएं describe the अटलांटिक as extending  southward to Antarctica . )
The equator subdivides it into  the उत्तर अटलांटिक समंदर और दक्षिण  Atlantic Ocean .
Due to their long-term persistence , and the need for a unique identifier in issuing forecasts and  चेतावनियाँ , तीव्र cyclones और उपोष्ण cyclones हैं दिए names according to नीति ( देखिए तीव्र चक्रवात  naming ) .
The following are lists from which  ये तीव्र और उपोष्ण चक्रवात names हैं  derived .
श्वेत लाइट is dispersed by a प्रिज़्म into  the colors of the optical spectrum .
The visible spectrum is  the portion of the इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक  spectrum that is visible to ( can be detected by ) the human eye .
इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक विकिरण in इस दायरा of wavelengths  is called visible light or simply light .
A typical human eye will  respond to wavelengths इससे परिचय 390 to 700  nm .
In  शर्तें of आवृत्ति ,  this corresponds to a band in the vicinity of 430–790 THz .
A light-adapted  नजर generally रै इसके अधिकतम संवेदनशीलता at around 555 nm ( 540 thz ) , in  the green region of the optical spectrum ( see : luminosity function ) .
The  वर्णक्रम करता नहीं , however , contain  all the colors that the human eyes and brain can distinguish .
Unsaturated colors such as  गुलाबी , or जामुनी विसंगतियाँ ऐसे as magenta , हैं अनुपस्थित , लिये उदाहरण , क्युकी वे can  be made only by a mix of multiple wavelengths .
रंगों containing तभी एक  wavelength are also called pure colors .
Visible wavelengths pass through the `` optical window `` , the region of the electromagnetic  वर्णक्रम जिससे allows wavelengths to pass largely unattenuated through  the Earth 's atmosphere .
An  उदाहरण of इस घटना is कि साफ एयर scatters  blue light more than red wavelengths , and so the midday sky appears blue .
The optical window is also called the visible window because  it overlaps the इंसान दृश्य जवाब वर्णक्रम  .
The near infrared ( NIR ) window lies just out of  the इंसान दृष्टि , as खूब as the मीडियम wavelength ir ( mwir ) खिड़की  and the Long Wavelength or Far Infrared ( LWIR or FIR ) window though other animals may experience them .
Many species can see light with  बारंबारता बाहर the `` दृश्य वर्णक्रम , '' जिससे  is defined in terms of human vision .
Bees and many other insects can  detect पराबैंगनी लाइट , जिससे helps  them find nectar in flowers .
संयंत्र प्रजाति कि निर्भर on कीट परागण may owe reproductive कामयाबी to उनके  appearance in ultraviolet light , rather than how colorful they appear to humans .
पक्षियों , too , can देखिए into the पराबैंगनी ( 300–400  nm ) , and some have sex-dependent markings on their plumage that are visible only in the ultraviolet range .
Many animals that can see into the ultraviolet range ,  however , can नहीं देखिए रेड लाइट or कोई अन्य reddish  wavelengths .
Bees ' visible spectrum ends at about  590nm , बस पहले the नारंगी wavelengths  start .
Birds ,  however , can देखिए कुछ रेड wavelengths ,  but not as many as humans .
zebras ( or ) हैं अनेक प्रजाति of अफ़्रीकी  equids ( horse family ) united by their distinctive black and white stripes .
Their  धारियाँ आइये in अलग पैटर्न ,  unique to each individual .
They are generally social  पशु कि सजीव in छोटी harems to  large herds .
Unlike their closest  रिश्तेदारों , घोड़े और asses , zebras have never  been truly domesticated .
There  हैं तीन प्रजाति of zebras : the मैदान  zebra , the Grévy 's zebra and the mountain zebra .
The plains zebra and the mountain zebra  belong to the subgenus hippotigris , लकिन grévy 's जेब्रा  is the sole species of subgenus Dolichohippus .
The latter resembles an ass , to which  it is closely सम्बन्धित , जबकि the पूर्व दो  are more horse-like .
All three belong  to the genus equus , साथ साथ  other living equids .
The unique stripes of zebras make them one  of the पशु सबसे परिचित  to people .
They occur  in a किस्में of habitats , ऐसे as grasslands , savannas , वुडलैंड्स  , thorny scrublands , mountains , and coastal hills .
However , various anthropogenic factors  have था a कठोर प्रभाव on जेब्रा populations  , in particular hunting for skins and habitat destruction .
Grévy 's zebra and  the पहाड़ जेब्रा हैं endangered  .
While plains zebras are much more plentiful , one subspecies , the quagga , became extinct in the late 19th century – though there is currently a plan , called the Quagga Project , that aims to  नस्ल zebras कि हैं phenotypically समान to the quagga in a प्रक्रम  called breeding back .
Barry White ,  born बैरी यूजीन कार्टर ( – ) , थी an अमरीकी  composer and singer-songwriter .
A two-time Grammy Award -winner known for his distinctive bass voice and romantic image , White 's greatest success came in the 1970s as a solo singer and with the Love Unlimited Orchestra , crafting  अनेक enduring आत्मा , दुर्गंध , और डिस्को गीतों ऐसे as उसके दो biggest हिट्स , `` तुम 're the पहला , the पिछला , my सबकुछ `` और `` ca n't मिलेंगी पर्याप्त of अपना प्रेम  , Babe . ''
Along with Isaac Hayes ,  श्वेत is माना by allmusic.com  as a pioneer of disco music in the early 1970s .
During the course of his career in the music business , White  हासिल 106 सुनहरा एल्बम विश्वव्यापी , 41 of जिससे भी attained  platinum status .
श्वेत था 20 सुनहरा और 10 प्लेटिनम singles , साथ विश्वव्यापी बिक्री  in excess of 100 million , according to critics Ed Hogan and Wade Kergan .
His influences included Rev . James Cleveland ,  रे चार्ल्स , एरीथा फ्रैंकलिन प्लस motown कलाकारों the supremes , the चार  Tops and Marvin Gaye .
Angelina Jolie ( , born Angelina Jolie Voight ; June 4 ,  1975 ) is an अमरीकी अभिनेत्री , फिल्मी  director , and screenwriter .
She has received an Academy Award , two Screen  अभिनेताओं गिल्ड पुरस्कार , और तीन सुनहरी ग्लोब पुरस्कार , और थी नामित  Hollywood 's highest-paid actress by Forbes in 2009 and 2011 .
Jolie  promotes humanitarian कल्याणकारी , और is विख्यात लिये उसके कार्य साथ शरणार्थियों as  a Special Envoy and former Goodwill Ambassador for the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees ( UNHCR ) .
She has often been cited as the world 's `` most beautiful  '' स्त्री , a शीर्षक लिये जिससे वो रै प्राप्त substantial  media attention .
Jolie made her screen debut as a child alongside her father Jon  वोइट in lookin ' to मिलेंगी आउट ( 1982 ) , लकिन उसके फिल्मी करियर began in सच्चाई a दशक बाद साथ the  low-budget production Cyborg 2 ( 1993 ) .
Her first leading role in a major  फिल्मी थी in the cyber-thriller  Hackers ( 1995 ) .
She starred in the critically acclaimed biographical television films George Wallace ( 1997 ) and Gia ( 1998 ) , and won an  अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन supporting अभिनेत्री लिये उसके प्रदर्शन in the नाटक लड़की , बाधित  ( 1999 ) .
Jolie achieved wide fame after her portrayal of video  खेल नायिका लारा क्रॉफ्ट in लारा क्रॉफ्ट : मकबरा रेडर ( 2001 ) , और स्थापित  herself among the highest-paid actresses in Hollywood with the sequel The Cradle of Life ( 2003 ) .
She continued her action star career with Mr. & Mrs. Smith ( 2005  ) और चाही ( 2008 ) —her biggest non-animated वाणिज्यिक सफलताओं  to date—and received further critical acclaim for her performances in the dramas A Mighty Heart ( 2007 ) and Changeling ( 2008 ) , which earned her a nomination for an Academy Award for Best Actress .
Jolie made her directorial debut with  the wartime नाटक in the जमीन of रक्त और मधु ( 2011  ) .
Divorced from actors Jonny Lee Miller  और बिली bob थॉर्नटन , जोली अभी जीवनदान साथ कर्ता ब्रैड pitt , in a संबंध notable लिये fervent मीडिया ध्यान  .
Jolie and Pitt  have तीन biological children  and three adopted children .
A  प्राकृतिक मेहराब उत्पादित by the अपरदन  of differentially weathered rock in Jebel Kharaz , Jordan
Erosion is the process by which soil and rock are removed from the Earth 's surface  by exogenetic प्रक्रियाओं  such as wind or water flow , and then transported and deposited in other locations .
While erosion is a natural  प्रक्रम , इंसान क्रियाएँ have increased by 10-40 टाइम्स the रेट at जिससे  erosion is occurring globally .
Excessive erosion causes problems  ऐसे as मरुस्थलीकरण , decreases in agricultural उत्पादकता due to जमीन degradation , sedimentation  of waterways , and ecological collapse due to loss of the nutrient rich upper soil layers .
Water and wind erosion are now the two primary causes of land  degradation ; संयुक्त , वे हैं जिम्मेदार लिये 84 % of degraded acreage , बनाना  excessive erosion one of the most significant global environmental problems .
Industrial agriculture , deforestation , roads ,  anthropogenic जलवायु बदलें और शहरी sprawl हैं amongst the सबसे significant इंसान क्रियाएँ in लिहाज़ to उनके  effect on stimulating erosion .
However , there are many available alternative land use practices that can curtail or limit erosion , such as terrace -building  , no-till कृषि , और revegetation  of denuded soils .
Jersey Shore is an American reality  टेलीविज़न श्रेणी जिससे भागा on एमटीवी  from December 3 , 2009 to December 20 , 2012 in the United States .
The series follows the lives of eight housemates spending  उनके गर्मियाँ at the जर्सी shore in the u.S. राज्य of नई  Jersey .
Season 2 followed the cast escaping the cold northeast winter to  मियामी बीच , साथ ऋतु 3 returning to the जर्सी shore  .
The fourth season , filmed in  इटली , premiered on अगस्त 4  , 2011 .
The show returned for a fifth  ऋतु , at seaside हाइट्स  on January 5 , 2012 .
The  पांचवां ऋतु finale aired  on March 15 , 2012 .
On March 19 , 2012 ,  एमटीवी पुष्टि कि the श्रेणी होता वापसी  for their sixth season .
On August 30 , 2012 , MTV  घोषित कि the श्रेणी होगा समाप्त बाद the छठे ऋतु , जिससे  premiered on October 4 .
The series  finale aired on दिसम्बर  20 , 2012 .
The show debuted amid large amounts of controversy regarding the use of the words `` Guido / Guidette , '' portrayals of  italian-american stereotypes , और scrutiny इससे स्थानीय क्युकी the डाल सदस्यों यहूद नहीं निवासियों of  the area .
The series  garnered रिकार्ड दरजा लिये एमटीवी , बनाना it the संजाल 's  most viewed series telecast ever .
The series ' cast have  भी महरूम credited साथ introducing अद्वितीय lexicon  and phrases into American popular culture .
The  विश्वविद्यालयों of शिकागो और the विश्वविद्यालयों of ओक्लाहोमा हैं among the शैक्षणिक  institutions that have had classes or conferences about the show .
In 2010 , the cast of Jersey Shore was named on Barbara Walters  ' 10 सबसे fascinating लोगों सूची , और the श्रेणी रै चूंकि महरूम exported  to dozens of countries worldwide .
There are several remakes of the show in other countries , with two  नियत in the संयुक्त किंगडम ; the खूब ज्ञात geordie  Shore , set in Newcastle upon Tyne , England .
The other is  the घाटियों , the वेल्श  equivalent , which is filmed and set in Cardiff .
The only other official  रीमेक of the दिखाएँ is gandía shore ,  set in Gandía , Spain .
सही
United States territory is any extent of region under the jurisdiction of the federal  सरकारी of the संयुक्त राज्य , सहित सब waters ( around आइलैंड्स or महाद्वीपीय  tracts ) and all U.S . Naval vessels .
The United States has traditionally proclaimed the sovereign  अधिकारों लिये exploring , exploiting , conserving , और  managing its territory .
This extent of  territory is सब the क्षेत्रफल belonging to , और अंतर्गत the डोमिनियन of , the संयुक्त राज्य संघीय सरकारी ( जिससे शामिल tracts lying  at a distance from the country ) for administrative and other purposes .
The  संयुक्त राज्य कुल territory  includes a subset of political divisions .
The U.S. government is a  सरकारी साथ प्रतिनिधित्व शक्तियां अंतर्गत the संयुक्त  States Constitution .
`` The powers not delegated to the United States by the  संविधान , nor निषिद्ध by it to the राज्य , हैं सुरक्षित to the राज्य क्रमशः  , or to the people '' by the Tenth Amendment .
Terminator 3 : Rise of the Machines ( commonly abbreviated as T3 ) is a 2003 science fiction action film  निर्देशित by जोनाथन mostow और अभिनीत अर्नाल्ड श्वार्ज़नेगर , उपनाम stahl , क्लेयर  Danes and Kristanna Loken .
It is the second sequel  to the टर्मिनेटर (  1984 ) .
After Skynet fails  to मार सारा connor पहले उसके बेटे is born और to मार जॉन खुद as a चाइल्ड , it भेजना वापस another  Terminator , the T-X , in an attempt to wipe out as many Resistance officers as possible .
This  शामिल जॉन 's भविष्य बीवी , लकिन नहीं जॉन खुद as उसके  whereabouts are unknown to Skynet .
John 's life is placed  in खतरे जब the t-x accidentally पाता  him .
A  cord of  wood
The cord is a unit of  माप of शुष्क आवाज़ प्रयुक्त in कनाडा और the संयुक्त राज्य  to measure firewood and pulpwood .
A cord is the amount of wood  कि , जब `` क्रमित और खूब stowed '' ( arranged so टुकड़े हैं लकीर  , parallel , touching and compact ) , occupies a volume of .
This corresponds  to a खूब stacked woodpile ऊँची , long , और गहन ; or  any other arrangement of linear measurements that yields the same volume .
The name cord  संभवतः आता इससे the उपयोग of a cord  or string to measure it .
The , is an 8-bit  हैंडहेल्ड वीडियो खेल यंत्र विकसित और  manufactured by Nintendo .
It was  released in जापानी on , in उत्तर अमेरिका in  , and in Europe on .
It is the first handheld console in the Game Boy  लकीर , और थी निर्मित by gunpei yokoi और निन्टेंडो शोध & विकास 1 —the वही स्टाफ जो था designed  the Game & Watch series as well as several popular games for the Nintendo Entertainment System .
Redesigned versions were released in 1996 and 1998 , in the  रूप of खेल लड़के जेब , और खेल लड़के लाइट ( जापानी तभी ) ,  respectively .
The Game Boy is Nintendo 's second handheld system following the Game & Watch series introduced in  , और it संयुक्त सुविधाएँ इससे दोनो the निन्टेंडो entertainment प्रणाली और खेल  & Watch .
It was originally  bundled साथ the  puzzle game Tetris .
As part of the fourth  पीढी of गेमिंग , the खेल लड़के competed साथ the sega खेल गियर , atari लिंक्स , और the turboexpress  .
despite ये अन्य technologically श्रेष्ठ हैंडहेल्ड consoles  , the Game Boy was a tremendous success .
The Game  लड़के और इसके successor , the खेल लड़के रंग  , have both combined sold 118.69 million units worldwide .
Upon its release in the United States  , it बेची इसके संपूर्ण शिपमेंट  of one million units within weeks .
The World Trade Center is a complex of  इमारतें अंतर्गत निर्माण in निम्नतर मैनहटन , नई यॉर्क नगर , संयुक्त राज्य , replacing an पहले  complex of seven buildings with the same name on the same site .
The original  संसार व्यापार बीच प्रदर्शित लैंडमार्क जुड़वा मीनारें , जिससे खोली on अप्रैल 4 , 1973 और यहूद  destroyed in the September 11 attacks of 2001 , along with 7 World Trade Center .
the अन्य इमारतें in the जटिल यहूद क्षतिग्रस्त in the हमले  , and their ruins were eventually demolished .
The site is being rebuilt with five new  skyscrapers और a मेमोरियल to those मारे in the  attacks .
, only one skyscraper has been completed ; the  अन्य चार हैं अपेक्षित to be समाप्त  before 2020 .
One World  व्यापार बीच होगा be the सीसे भवन लिये the नई जटिल , reaching अधिक  than 100 stories at its completion .
It became the tallest building in New York  नगर on अप्रैल 30 , 2012 , और is अपेक्षित to be समाप्त by 2013  .
A sixth  मीनार is प्रतीक्षारत पुष्टि  .
At the time of their completion , the original 1 World Trade Center ( the North Tower ) and 2  संसार व्यापार बीच ( the दक्षिण मीनार ) , ज्ञात collectively as the `` जुड़वा मीनारें '' , यहूद the tallest  buildings in the world .
The other  इमारतें शामिल 3 wtc ( the मैरियट  World Trade Center ) , 4 WTC , 5 WTC , 6 WTC , and 7 WTC .
सब of ये इमारतें यहूद निर्मित  between 1975 and 1985 .
The cost for  the निर्माण थी  $ 400 million ( $ in dollars ) .
The complex was located in the  दिल of नई यॉर्क नगर 's शहर वित्तीय ज़िला  and contained 13.4 million square feet ( 1.24 million m2 ) of office space .
The World Trade Center experienced a fire on , 1975 , a  bombing on , 1993 और a डकैती  on , 1998 .
In 1998 , the Port Authority decided to  privatize the संसार व्यापार बीच , पट्टे the इमारतें to  a private company to manage , and awarded the lease to Silverstein Properties in .
On the morning  of सितंबर 11 , 2001 , al-qaeda -संबद्धd hijackers उड़ाया दो बोइंग 767  jets into the complex , one into each tower , in a coordinated terrorist attack .
After burning for 56 minutes , the South Tower ( 2 ) collapsed , followed a  half-hour बाद by the उत्तर मीनार ( 1 ) , साथ the हमले on the संसार व्यापार  Center resulting in 2,753 deaths .
Falling debris from the towers , combined with fires that the debris  initiated in अनेक surrounding इमारतें , led to the आंशिक or पूरा पतन of सब the अन्य इमारतें in the जटिल और caused अनर्थकारी  damage to ten other large structures in the surrounding area .
The  प्रक्रम of क्लीनअप और रिकवरी at  the World Trade Center site took eight months .
Over the following years , plans for a  rebuilt संसार व्यापार बीच took  form .
The  पहला नई भवन at the साईट थी 7 संसार  Trade Center , which opened in .
The Lower Manhattan Development  निगम ( lmdc ) , स्थापित in to oversee the पुनर्निर्माण प्रक्रम , व्यवस्थित  competitions to select a site plan and memorial design .
Memory Foundations ,  designed by डेनियल libeskind ,  was selected as the master plan , but this went through substantial changes in design .
The new  संसार व्यापार बीच जटिल होगा शामिल एक संसार व्यापार बीच  , three other high-rise office towers , and the National September 11 Memorial & Museum .
San  जिबरील kyu
San Bernardino  kyu , साथ mt . सैन gorgonio in the अग्रभूमि और बिग  Bear Lake in the background .
The Transverse Ranges are a group  of पहाड़ सीमाएँ of दक्षिणी कैलिफ़ोर्निया , in the प्रशांत coast सीमाएँ physiographic  region in North America .
The Transverse  सीमाएँ शुरू at the दक्षिणी समाप्त of  the California Coast Ranges and lie between Santa Barbara and San Diego counties .
They derive the name Transverse Ranges due to their East-West orientation , making them transverse to the general  north-south अभिविन्यास of सबसे of कैलिफ़ोर्निया 's तटीय kyu  .
Periodic table with  इलेक्ट्रॉन शेल
An electron  शेल may be विचार of as an कक्षा  followed by electrons around an atom 's nucleus .
The closest shell to the nucleus is called the `` 1 shell '' ( also called `` K shell '' ) , followed by the `` 2 shell '' (  or `` l शेल '' ) , तब the `` 3 शेल '' ( or `` m शेल '' ) , और so on दूर और दूर इससे  the nucleus .
The shell letters K , L , M , ... , used  in the x-ray संकेतन , हैं वर्णमाला  .
Each shell can contain only a fixed number of electrons : The 1st shell can hold  up to दो electrons , the 2nd शेल can थाम up to आठ electrons , the 3rd शेल can थाम up to 18 , और 4th शेल can थाम up to 32  and so on .
चूंकि electrons हैं electrically आकर्षित  to the nucleus , an atom 's electrons will generally occupy outer shells only if the more inner shells have already been completely filled by other electrons .
However , this is not a strict requirement :  अणु may have दो or भी तीन अधूरी बाहरी शेल .
(  देखिए madelung नियम लिये  more details . )
लिये an स्पष्टीकरण of क्यों electrons मौजूद in ये शेल  see electron configuration .
The electrons in the outermost  occupied शेल ( or शेल ) determine the रासायनिक गुण of the अणु  ; it is called the valence shell .
Each shell consists of  एक or अधिक subshells , और प्रत्येक subshell  consists of one or more atomic orbitals .
Vickie Lynn Marshall  ( née होगन ; नवम्बर 28 , 1967 – फ़रवरी 8 , 2007  ) , known by her moniker Anna Nicole Smith , was an American model , actress , and television personality .
Smith first gained  लोकप्रियता in प्लेबॉय , बनने the 1993  Playmate of the Year .
She modeled for clothing  कंपनियाँ , सहित अंदाज़ा  jeans and Lane Bryant .
Smith dropped out  of ऊँची स्कूल और थी शादीशुदा  in 1985 .
Her highly publicized second marriage to oil business mogul , J.  हावर्ड मार्शल , 62 सालो उसके वरिष्ठ , resulted in अटकलें कि वो शादीशुदा  the octogenarian for his money , which she denied .
Following Marshall 's death ,  स्मिथ began a lengthy विधिक बैटल over a share of उसके  estate .
Her case , Marshall v. Marshall , reached the U.S. Supreme Court on a question of federal  क्षेत्राधिकार , और again on a सवाल of दिवालियापन अदालत प्राधिकार ( अभी पुकारा stern  v. Marshall ) .
Smith died on February 8 , 2007 in a Hollywood , Florida hotel  रूम as a परिणाम of an overdose of नुस्खा  drugs .
Within the final six months of her life ,  स्मिथ थी the फ़ोकस of a नवीनीकृत दबायें कवरेज surrounding the मौत of उसके बेटे , डेनियल , और the paternity और कस्टडी  battle over her newborn daughter , Dannielynn .
The is one  denomination of जापानी  yen .
The current design was first minted in 1959 using Japanese characters  ज्ञात as the `` नई स्क्रिप्ट `` , और यहूद भी minted इससे 1949-1958 using `` old-script  '' Japanese characters .
Five-yen coins date to 1870 ( when , due to the much  उच्चतर मान of the येन , वे यहूद minted  in gold ) .
The front of the coin depicts a rice plant growing  आउट of the जल , साथ `` पाँच येन '' लिखा in कांजी ; the वापस is stamped साथ `` जापानी '' और the साल of समस्या  , also in kanji , separated by sprouts of a tree .
The three graphic elements of the coin represent  कृषि और fisheries , the कुंजी तत्व of the  Japanese first-sector economy .
Around a hole ,  वहीँ is a गियर कि represents  industry .
It is the only Japanese coin in  परिसंचरण to कमी अरबी  numerals on either face .
TLC is an American  लड़की समूह जिनकी रंगमंडल spanned r & b , हिप हॉप  , soul , funk , and new jack swing .
Originally consisting of singer Tionne `` T-Boz '' Watkins , rapper Lisa `` Left Eye ''  lopes और सिंगर rozonda `` chilli '' थामस , the समूह मिला unprecedented कामयाबी in the  1990s while also enduring a series of spats with the law , each other , and the group 's record label .
Initially ,  tlc हासिल वाणिज्यिक कामयाबी following the  release of their debut album Ooooooohhh ...
on the tlc टिप , जिससे  sold 6 million copies worldwide .
however , it थी उनके दूसरी एल्बम ,  CrazySexyCool , that catapulted the group to superstar status .
CrazySexyCool went on to be certified diamond by the RIAA — a first for a female  समूह , और आखिरकार बेची 23 लाख नक़ल विश्वव्यापी  .
Five years later , the group released their  तीसरा एल्बम fanmail , जिससे became the समूह 's पहला एल्बम to डेब्यू at क्रमांक एक और  sold more than 11 million copies worldwide .
The  subsequent दौरे following fanmails रिलीज became the उच्चतम grossing दौरे of  all time by a female band .
In  2002 , लिसा `` बाएँ नजर '' lopes died  in a car accident in Honduras .
Seven months later , T-Boz and Chilli released the group 's fourth  एल्बम 3d , जिससे बेची 2 लाख नक़ल विश्वव्यापी , it प्रदर्शित unreleased  vocals from Left Eye .
Billboard magazine  क्रमित tlc as एक of the  greatest musical trios .
Between 1992 and 2003 , the band accumulated ten top ten singles , four  क्रमांक एक singles , चार multi-platinum एल्बम , और चार ग्रैमी पुरस्कार  .
At the end of 1999 , TLC was ranked  as the सातवाँ सबसे कामयाब अधिनियम of the  1990s by Billboard .
In 2008 , the  समूह थी inducted into the सब समय hot 100 कलाकार हॉल of कीर्ति by  the same magazine , at 56th place .
That  साल it थी भी सूचीबद्ध as the # 25 r & b/hip-hop  artist of the preceding 25 years .
TLC has sold more than 65 million records  विश्वव्यापी और वे हैं क्रमित as the दूसरी बेहतरीन selling मादा समूह of सब  time , and the best selling female R & B group of all time .
In 2012 , TLC ranked 12th on VH1 's 100  महानतम महिलाओं in म्यूज़िक , होने क्रमित the क्रमांक एक सब लड़की समूह  on that list .
Tarzan is a 1999 American animated adventure film produced  by वॉल्ट डिज़्नी विशेषता एनिमेशन और वितरित  by Walt Disney Pictures .
The 37th film in the Walt Disney Animated Classics , it is based on the story Tarzan of the Apes by  एडगर राइस बरोज , और is the तभी प्रमुख गति चित्र संस्करण of the स्टोरी टार्ज़न प्रॉपर्टी to be एनिमेटेड  .
Directed by Chris Buck  और केविन लीमा साथ a पटकथा by tab मर्फी , bob tzudiker , और नोनी श्वेत , टार्ज़न सुविधाएँ the आवाज़ें of टोनी goldwyn  , Minnie Driver , Glenn Close , and Rosie O'Donnell with Brian Blessed , Lance Henriksen , Wayne Knight , and Nigel Hawthorne .
It was the last bona fide hit before the Disney slump of the early 2000s grossing $  171,091,819 domestically और $ 448,191,819 विश्वव्यापी , outgrossing इसके पूर्ववर्तियों  Hercules ( 1997 ) and Mulan ( 1998 ) .
At the time of its release , its  उत्पादन बजट of $ 130 लाख बना it the सबसे महंगी एनिमेटेड फिल्मी कभी बना , जबतक  topped by Disney 's own $ 140 million Treasure Planet in 2002 .
It  थी भी the पहला डिज़्नी एनिमेटेड विशेषता  to open at # 1 since Pocahontas .
This was the last major box  दफ्तर कामयाबी of the डिज़्नी  Renaissance .
Oil Platform P-51 off the Brazilian coast is a  semi-submersible मंच  .
आयल मंच mittelplate  in the North sea
An  आयल मंच , ( offshore मंच or colloquially आयल रिग ) is a विशाल ढांचा साथ सुविधाएं to ड्रिल  wells , to extract and process oil and natural gas , and to temporarily store product until it can be brought to shore for refining and marketing .
In many cases , the  मंच contains सुविधाएं  to house the workforce as well .
Depending on the  हालातों , the मंच may be फिक्स्ड to the समंदर मंजिल , may  consist of an artificial island , or may float .
Remote  subsea कुएं may भी be कनेक्ट  to a platform by flow lines and by umbilical connections .
These subsea solutions may consist of one or more subsea  कुएं , or of एक or अधिक manifold केंद्रों लिये  multiple wells .
Slaughter is  the हत्या of पशु  , usually that of domestic livestock for food .
The animals most commonly slaughtered for food are cattle , water  भैंस ( लिये बीफ और वील ) , शीप , बकरियों ( लिये मेमने और मटन ) , सूअर ( लिये पोर्क ) , घोड़े  ( for horse meat ) , and fowl , largely chickens , turkeys , and ducks and increasingly fish from the aquaculture industry ( fish farming ) .
The White House , the president 's  आधिकारिक निवास और बीच of the प्रशासन
Under the United States Constitution ,  the अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य is the सिर of राज्य और सिर  of government of the United States .
As chief of the executive branch and head of the federal government as a  पूरे , the प्रेसिडेंसी is the उच्चतम राजनैतिक दफ्तर in the संयुक्त राज्य by influence  and recognition .
The president is also the  commander-in-chief of the संयुक्त राज्य हथियारबंद शक्तियां  .
The president is indirectly elected to a four-year term by an Electoral College ( or by the House of Representatives should the Electoral  कॉलेज असफल to पुरस्कार an निरपेक्ष बहुमत of मत to कोई व्यक्ति  ) .
Since the ratification of the Twenty-second Amendment to the United States Constitution in 1951 , no person may  be निर्वाचित अध्यक्ष अधिक than twice , और no एक जो रै परोसा अधिक than दो सालो of a पद to जिससे किसी  else was elected may be elected more than once .
Upon the death ,  इस्तीफा , or हटाना इससे दफ्तर  of an incumbent President , the Vice President assumes the office .
The President  जरूर be at तनिक 35 सालो of आयु और a  `` natural born '' citizen of the United States .
This list includes only those persons who were sworn  into दफ्तर as अध्यक्ष following the अनुसमर्थन of the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान , जिससे  took effect on March 4 , 1789 .
For American leaders before this  अनुसमर्थन , देखिए अध्यक्ष of the महाद्वीपीय  Congress .
The list does not  शामिल कोई एक्टिंग राष्ट्रपतियों अंतर्गत the twenty-fifth amendment  to the United States Constitution .
There have been 43 people sworn into office , and 44 presidencies , as Grover  क्लीवलैंड परोसा दो non-consecutive शर्तें और is गिने क्रमबद्धता as दोनो the  22nd and 24th president .
Of the individuals elected as president , four died in  दफ्तर of प्राकृतिक कल्याणकारी ( विलियम हेनरी हैरिसन , zachary टेलर , वारेन G. हार्डिंग , और फ्रैंकलिन D. रूज़वेल्ट ) , चार यहूद assassinated ( अब्राहम lincoln , जेम्स  A. Garfield , William McKinley , and John F. Kennedy ) and one resigned ( Richard Nixon ) .
George Washington , the first president , was  उदघाटन in 1789 बाद a सर्वसम्मत vote of the चुनावी कॉलेज  .
William Henry Harrison spent the shortest time in office with 32 days in 1841 ,  और फ्रैंकलिन D. रूज़वेल्ट खर्च the longest साथ over बारह  years , but died shortly into his fourth term in 1945 .
He is the only president to serve more than two terms , and a constitutional amendment , affecting presidents after Harry Truman  , थी passed to सीमा the क्रमांक of टाइम्स an व्यक्तिगत can be निर्वाचित अध्यक्ष  .
Andrew Jackson , the seventh president , was  the पहला to be निर्वाचित by मेन of सब वर्ग in 1828 बाद सबसे कानून  barring non-land-owners from voting were repealed .
Warren Harding was the first  निर्वाचित बाद महिलाओं gained मतदान अधिकारों in 1920  .
इतिहास रिकॉर्ड चार राष्ट्रपतियों – जॉन q एडम्स , रदरफोर्ड B. हेज़ , बेंजामिन  Harrison and George W. Bush – who lost the popular vote but assumed office .
John F. Kennedy has been the only president of Roman Catholic faith , and the current  अध्यक्ष , बराक ओबामा , is the पहला अध्यक्ष of अफ़्रीकी descent  .
Several firearms with detachable suppressors , from top  to नीचे : an uzi , an ar-15 , a heckler & koch खासियत रणनीतिक , a beretta  92FS , and a SIG Mosquito .
Bolt  कार्रवाई rimfire राइफल साथ suppressor
AWM-F  स्निपर राइफल साथ संलग्न  suppressor .
A suppressor , sound suppressor , or sound moderator , is a device attached to or part of the barrel of a firearm which reduces the amount of noise , and  प्रायः the राशि of muzzle फ्लैश , उत्पन्न by फायरिंग the हथियार  .
A suppressor can be used both  साथ a firearm और साथ संपीडित  air gun .
Though it is sometimes referred to as a silencer , this term is a misnomer popularized by  cinematic fiction : the ध्वनि of a प्रक्षेप्य , विशेषकर एक चलती तेज़ than  the speed of sound , through the air can not be eliminated .
Using a suppressor in long  अलहदा शूटिंग ( i.e . वृहद than 300 मीटर ) can lessen , or retard , the रपट at the पल of प्रभाव , और बनाएँ  the impression of silence near the target .
The noise heard near the muzzle as a projectile leaves the barrel ,  हालांकि subdued , is नहीं मूक  at all .
A suppressor is usually a metal cylinder with internal  mechanisms to reduce the ध्वनि of फायरिंग by slowing the escaping propellant गैस और sometimes  by reducing the velocity of the bullet .
Early suppressors were created around the beginning of the  20th सदी by अनेक आविष्कारक  .
American inventor Hiram Percy Maxim ( not  to be उलझन साथ hiram स्टीवंस कहावत , hiram पर्सी 's पिता , और the आविष्कारक of the कहावत यंत्र गन ) , is credited साथ inventing  and selling the first commercially successful models circa 1902 ( patented 30 March 1909 ) .
Maxim gave  उसके यंत्र the trademarked  name Maxim Silencer .
The muffler for internal combustion engines was developed in parallel with the firearm  suppressor by कहावत in the जल्दी 20th सदी , using अनेक of the वही तकनीकों to provide quieter-running इंजन ( in अनेक यूरोपीय देशों ऑटोमोबाइल  mufflers are still called silencers ) .
The word silencer in reference to gun suppressor remains in widespread use , although it has since fallen out of favor with some , especially  among the firearms उद्योग , होने replaced साथ the अधिक वस्तुतः सटीक पद ध्वनि suppressor or बस suppressor , क्युकी a `` ध्वनि suppressor '' करता नहीं `` खामोशी  '' any weapon , rather it eliminates muzzle flash and reduces the sonic pressure of a firearm discharging .
Common usage and U.S.  विधान भाषा एहसान the  historically earlier term , silencer .
In U.S. law , the terms `` firearm  मफलर '' और `` firearm silencer '' हैं synonymous  .
Suppressors were regularly used by  एजेंटों of the संयुक्त राज्य दफ्तर of रणनीतिक सेवाएं , जो favored the newly designed  High Standard HDM .22 Long Rifle pistol during World War II .
OSS Director William  जोसेफ `` जंगली विधेयक '' डोनोवन demonstrated the पिस्टल लिये अध्यक्ष फ्रैंकलिन  D. Roosevelt at the White House .
According to OSS  शोध मुख्य स्टेनली लोवेल , डोनोवन ( an बूढ़ा और विश्वसनीय dost  of the President ) was waved into the Oval Office , where Roosevelt was dictating a letter .
While Roosevelt finished his  संदेश , डोनोवन turned उसके वापस और fired टेन गोलियाँ into a sandbag he था brought साथ उसे  , announced what he had done and handed the smoking gun to the astonished president .
The British SOE (  खास परिचालन कार्यपालिका ) welrod हत्या पिस्टल साथ an अभिन्न  suppressor was also used by the American OSS on clandestine operations in Nazi occupied Europe during the Second World War .
Beatrice `` Bea '' Arthur ( May 13 , 1922 – April 25 , 2009 ) was an  अमरीकी अभिनेत्री , comedienne , और सिंगर जिनकी करियर spanned सात दशकों  .
Arthur achieved fame  as the अक्षर maude findlay on the 1970s sitcoms सब in the परिवार और maude  , and as Dorothy Zbornak on the 1980s sitcom The Golden Girls , winning Emmy Awards for both roles .
A  स्टेज अभिनेत्री दोनो पहले और बाद उसके टेलीविज़न कामयाबी , वो जीती the टोनी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन  Featured Actress in a Musical for her performance as Vera Charles in the original cast of Mame ( 1966 ) .
is a 2011 Japanese 3D computer-animated film based on the Tekken  वीडियो खेल श्रेणी , उत्पादित by डिजिटल frontier और वितरित by asmik इक्का entertainment in संघ साथ  Bandai Entertainment .
The film premiered in North America by Bandai Entertainment on  जुलाई 26 , 2011 , और in ऑस्ट्रेलिया on जुलाई  27 , 2011 in a special exclusive one-off screening .
It  थी released  on September 3 , 2011 in Japan .
The film was released on Blu-ray Disc on  नवम्बर 22 , 2011 लिये यूएसए , और दिसम्बर 1 , 2011  for Japan .
This  फिल्मी थी भी released on dvd on नवम्बर  22 , 2011 ( 2D Version only ) .
The film was additionally included with the PlayStation  3 खेल , tekken संकर , और the निन्टेंडो  3DS title , Tekken 3D : Prime Edition .
For a discussion of nonprofit ,  voluntary पड़ोस वकालत समूह , देखिए पड़ोस  association .
In the United States , a homeowner association is a corporation formed by a real estate  डेवलपर लिये the purpose of विपणन , मैनेजिंग ,  and selling of homes and lots in a residential subdivision .
It grants the developer privileged voting rights in governing the association , while allowing the developer to exit  वित्तीय और विधिक जिम्मेदारी of the संगठन , typically by transferring स्वामित्व of the संघ to the homeowners  after selling off a predetermined number of lots .
Membership in the homeowners association by a residential buyer  is typically a कंडीशन of खरीदें ; a खरीदार is n't दिए an विकल्प to अस्वीकृत  it .
Most homeowner  एसोसिएशन हैं incorporated  , and are subject to state statutes that govern non-profit corporations and homeowner associations .
State oversight of homeowner associations is  minimal , और मुख्यतः takes the रूप of  laws which are inconsistent from state to state .
Some states , such as Florida and California , have a large body of homeowner association law  , और कुछ राज्य , ऐसे as मैसाचुसेट्स , have वस्तुतः  no homeowner association law .
The fastest growing form of housing in the United States today is common-interest developments ( CIDs ) , a  श्रेणी कि शामिल planned-unit developments of single-family घरों , condominiums , और सहकारी अपार्टमेंट  .
चूंकि 1964 , homeowner एसोसिएशन have become increasingly  common in the USA .
The Community  एसोसिएशन संस्थान व्यापार संघ अनुमानित कि hoas governed 24.8 लाख  American homes and 62 million residents in 2010 .
A prize-winning  lilac-and-white  Silkie
There are many breeds of Guinea pig  जिससे have महरूम विकसित चूंकि इसके domestication ca . 5000  BC .
Breeds vary widely in appearance and purpose , ranging from show breeds with  long , बहती बाल to those in उपयोग as मॉडल जीवों by  science .
From ca . 1200 AD to the Spanish conquest of the Inca Empire in 1532 , selective breeding by indigenous South American  peoples resulted in अनेक किस्में of घरेलू गिनी सूअर , जिससे रूप the आधार लिये कुछ of the आधुनिक घरेलू  breeds .
Early  andean breeds यहूद primarily रखा as agricultural भण्डार  for food , and efforts at improving the Guinea pig as a food source continue to the modern era .
With the export of  गिनी सूअर to यूरोपीय in the 15th सदी , the लक्ष्य in प्रजनन shifted  to focus on the development of appealing pets .
To this end , various  प्रतिस्पर्धी प्रजनन संगठन यहूद संस्थापित  by fanciers .
The American Cavy Breeders Association ,  an adjunct to the अमरीकी खरगोश प्रजनक संघ  , is the governing body in the United States and Canada .
The British  cavy परिषद governs cavy क्लब in the संयुक्त  Kingdom .
Similar organizations  मौजूद in ऑस्ट्रेलिया ( ऑस्ट्रेलियाई नेशनल cavy परिषद ) और नई जीलैंड  ( New Zealand Cavy Club ) .
Each club publishes its own Standard of Perfection and determines which breeds  हैं योग्य लिये प्रर्दशित  .
New breeds continue to  emerge in the 21st सदी .
Though there are many breeds of Guinea pig ,  तभी a few breeds हैं commonly मिला on the  show table as pets .
Most Guinea pigs found as pets were either found undesirable by breeders or were bred  to be सुखद पालतु regardless of कैसा खूब वे मिलें the नस्ल मानक of पूर्णता  .
The short  बाल , abyssinian , peruvian और sheltie ( उर्फ silkie ) breeds हैं those सबसे अक्सर  seen as pets , and the former three are the core breeds in the history of the competitive showing of Guinea pigs .
In addition to their standard form ,  nearly सब breeds आइये in a साटन  variant .
Satins , due to their hollow hair  shafts , possess coats of a खास gloss  and shine .
However , there is  growing प्रमाण कि the जीनों जिम्मेदार लिये the साटन कोट भी can कारण  severe bone problems , including Osteodystrophy and Paget 's disease .
Showing Satin variations is prohibited  by कुछ cavy प्रजनक ' एसोसिएशन  because of animal welfare reasons .
All cavy breeds have some shared general  मानकों : the सिर प्रोफ़ाइल चाहिए be rounded , साथ विशाल आँखें और  large , smooth ears .
The body  चाहिए be दमदार  and of compact build .
Coat colour should in all variations be clearly  पारिभाषित और thorough  from root to tip .
These standards are best met by long  स्थापित , commonly करवाया breeds , as उनके प्रजनक  have had enough time and animals to effectively breed for these qualities .
The coat colour ideal of good definition and thoroughness is rarely met by other than the smooth coated  breeds , जिससे have था खूब स्थापित , पृथक प्रजनन  lines for different colours .
State  स्कूलों ( भी ज्ञात as पब्लिक स्कूलों or सरकारी स्कूलों ) generally refer to प्राथमिक or द्वितीयक स्कूलों mandated  for or offered to all children without charge paid for , in whole or in part , by taxation .
The term may also refer to  संस्थानों of post-secondary शिक्षा वित्तपोषित , in पूरे or  in part , and overseen by government .
The ribosome assembles polymeric protein molecules  जिनकी अनुक्रम is नियंत्रित by the अनुक्रम  of messenger RNA molecules .
This is  जरूरी by सब जीना कोशिकाएं  and associated viruses .
The ribosome ( from ribonucleic acid and the  यूनानी सोम , अर्थ `` देह '' ) is a विशाल और जटिल आणविक यंत्र , मिला भीतर सब जीना  cells , that serves as the primary site of biological protein synthesis ( translation ) .
Ribosomes  कड़ी अमीनो acids साथ in the अनुक्रम निर्दिष्ट  by messenger RNA ( mRNA ) molecules .
Ribosomes consist of two major subunits—the small  ribosomal subunit पढ़े the mrna , जबकि the विशाल subunit joins अमीनो acids to रूप a polypeptide  chain .
Each subunit is  रचित of एक or अधिक ribosomal rna ( rrna  ) molecules and a variety of proteins .
The sequence of DNA encoding for a protein may be copied many  टाइम्स into मेसेंजर rna ( mrna ) जंजीरों of a समान  sequence .
Ribosomes can bind to  an mrna कड़ी और उपयोग it as a टेम्पलेट लिये determining the सही अनुक्रम  of amino acids in a particular protein .
Amino acids are selected , collected and carried to the ribosome by transfer RNA ( tRNA  अणुओं ) , जिससे डालें एक भाग of the राइबोसोम और  bind to the messenger RNA chain .
The  संलग्न अमीनो acids हैं तब linked साथ  by another part of the ribosome .
Once the protein is  उत्पादित , it can तब 'fold ' to उपज a विशिष्ट कार्यात्मक  three-dimensional structure .
A ribosome is made from complexes of RNAs and proteins  और is इसलिए a ribonucleoprotein .
Each  राइबोसोम is विभाजित into दो subunits : the छोटी subunit बांधता to the mrna  pattern , while the larger subunit binds to the tRNA and the amino acids .
When  a राइबोसोम finishes पढना an mrna  molecule , these two subunits split apart .
Ribosomes are ribozymes , because the catalytic peptidyl  transferase कार्यकलाप कि कड़ी अमीनो acids साथ is performed by the ribosomal rna  .
Ribosomes from bacteria , archaea and eukaryotes ( the three domains  of जीवन on धरती ) differ in उनके आकार , अनुक्रम , ढांचा , और the अनुपात  of protein to RNA .
The differences  in ढांचा allow कुछ एंटीबायोटिक to मार जीवाणु by inhibiting उनके  ribosomes , while leaving human ribosomes unaffected .
In bacteria and archaea , more than one ribosome may move along a  सिंगल mrna कड़ी at एक समय , प्रत्येक `` पढना '' इसके अनुक्रम और producing a सम्बन्धित  protein molecule .
The  ribosomes in the mitochondria of eukaryotic कोशिकाएं functionally resemble  many features of those in bacteria , reflecting the likely evolutionary origin of mitochondria .
Albert  क्लॉड , ईसाई de duve , और जार्ज एमिल palade यहूद jointly  awarded the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine , in 1974 , for the discovery of the ribosomes .
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 2009 was awarded to  venkatraman रामकृष्णन , थामस A. steitz और एडीए E. yonath लिये determining  the detailed structure and mechanism of the ribosome .
The  सरलीकृत आतंरिक ढांचा  of a chloroplast
Overview  of the calvin साईकिल  and carbon fixation
The light-independent reactions of  photosynthesis हैं रासायनिक प्रतिक्रियाएँ कि बदलें कार्बन डाइऑक्साइड और अन्य  compounds into glucose .
ये प्रतिक्रियाएँ occur in the stroma , the fluid-filled  area of a chloroplast outside of the thylakoid membranes .
These reactions take the  light-dependent प्रतिक्रियाएँ और perform further  chemical processes on them .
There are three phases to the light-independent reactions ,  collectively पुकारा the calvin साईकिल : कार्बन fixation , कटौती प्रतिक्रियाएँ , और ribulose  1,5-bisphosphate ( RuBP ) regeneration .
Despite its name  , इस प्रक्रम occurs तभी जब  light is available .
Plants do not carry out  the calvin साईकिल  by night .
They , instead , release sucrose  into the फ्लोएम इससे उनके मंड reserves  .
This process happens when light is available independent of the  दयालु of photosynthesis ( c3 कार्बन fixation , c4 कार्बन fixation , और crassulacean एसिड चयापचय ) ; कैम पौधे स्टोर malic एसिड in उनके vacuoles प्रत्येक रात्रि  and release it by day in order to make this process work .
In mathematics , a  वर्गाकार क्रमांक or पूर्ण वर्गाकार is an पूर्णांक कि is the वर्गाकार of an  integer ; in other words , it is the product of some integer with itself .
For  उदाहरण , 9 is a वर्गाकार  number , since it can be written as .
The usual notation for the formula for the square of a number  is नहीं the उत्पाद , लकिन the समतुल्य घातांक  , usually pronounced as `` squared '' .
the नाम वर्गाकार  number comes from the name of the shape ; see below .
वर्गाकार संख्याएँ  are non-negative .
Another way of saying that a (  non-negative ) क्रमांक is a वर्गाकार क्रमांक , is कि इसके वर्गाकार  roots are again integers .
For example ,  = ±3 , so 9 is a वर्गाकार क्रमांक  .
A positive integer  कि रै no पूर्ण वर्गाकार divisors मगर  1 is called square-free .
For a  non-negative पूर्णांक , the th वर्गाकार क्रमांक  is , with being the zeroth square .
The concept of  वर्गाकार can be विस्तारित to कुछ  other number systems .
If rational numbers are included , then a square  is the अनुपात of दो वर्गाकार integers , और , conversely , the  ratio of two square integers is a square ( e.g. , 4/9 = ( 2/3 ) 2 ) .
Starting with 1 ,  वहीँ हैं वर्गाकार संख्याएँ up to और सहित  , where the expression represents the floor of the number .
The Era of Good Feelings marked a period in the political  इतिहास of the संयुक्त राज्य कि reflected a भाव of नेशनल purpose और a ख्वाहिश लिये  unity among Americans in the aftermath of the Napoleonic Wars .
The era saw the collapse of the Federalist Party and an end to the bitter  दलगत विवादों between it और the प्रबल democratic-republican पार्टी दौरान the पहला पार्टी प्रणाली  .
President James  मुनरो endeavored to downplay दलगत संबद्ध in बनाना उसके nominations , साथ the परम लक्ष्य of नेशनल एकता और eliminating पार्टियों  altogether from national politics .
The period is so closely associated with Monroe 's presidency  ( 1817–1825 ) और उसके प्रशासनिक लक्ष्य कि उसके नाम और the era हैं वस्तुतः  synonymous .
The  era of शुभ जज्बात चिह्नित a परिवर्तन in अमरीकी राजनीती साथ the समाप्त of the federalist पार्टी as अमेरिका  began to develop after the War of 1812 .
While America was experiencing growth and prosperity after the war with Britain  , इस era भी marks the पहला उदाहरण of आर्थिक परेशानियों  in the growing United States .
Mirroring the American System proposed by Henry Clay , protective tariffs and the chartering of the Second Bank of the United States  जटिल the टेंशन between the उत्तर और दक्षिण साथ the coming of the पहला वित्तीय  crisis .
While the term “Era of Good Feelings” is usually viewed with  विडंबना क्युकी of the राजनैतिक turmoil , आर्थिक कारकों caused animosity between  the North and South .
The designation of the period by historians as one of “good feelings” is often conveyed with irony or skepticism , as the history of the era was one in which the political atmosphere was strained and divisive ,  विशेषकर among गिरोहों भीतर the मुनरो प्रशासन और the रिपब्लिकन पार्टी .
The phrase “Era of Good Feelings” was coined by Benjamin Russell ,  in the बोस्टन federalist समाचारपत्र , columbian centinel , on जुलाई 12 , 1817  , following Monroe 's visit to Boston , Massachusetts as part of his good will tour of America .
Mariel  मार्गरेट `` मिया '' hamm ( born कूच 17 , 1972 ) is a रिटायर्ड  American professional soccer player .
Hamm played many  सालो as a आगे लिये the संयुक्त राज्य महिलाओं 's नेशनल सॉकर टोली और थी a founding सदस्य of  the Washington Freedom .
Hamm scored 158 international  लक्ष्य , अधिक than कोई अन्य खिलाड़ी , पुरूष or मादा , in the इतिहास of सॉकर और is the तीसरा सबसे capped  female player in soccer history behind Kristine Lilly and Christie Rampone , appearing in 275 international matches .
Hamm was named the women 's FIFA World Player of the Year the first two times that award was  दिए ( in 2001 और 2002 ) , और is सूचीबद्ध as एक of फीफा  's 125 best living players ( as chosen by Pelé ) .
She was inducted into the National Soccer Hall  of कीर्ति as खूब as the अलबामा खेल हॉल  of Fame and Texas Sports Hall of Fame .
She is the author of Go For the Goal : A Champion 's Guide to Winning in Soccer and Life and appeared in the HBO documentary Dare to Dream :  the स्टोरी of the u.S. महिलाओं 's सॉकर टोली .
वॉशिंगटन पोस्ट columnist माइकल wilbon पुकारा hamm  , `` Perhaps the most important athlete of the last 15 years . ''
Hamm  takes a कोने  kick .
The New York Red  bulls is an अमरीकी पेशेवर सॉकर टोली आधारित in हैरिसन  , New Jersey , representing the New York metropolitan area .
The team  competes in the पूर्वी सम्मेलन of प्रमुख  League Soccer ( MLS ) .
It is one of the ten charter clubs of MLS , having  competed in the लीग चूंकि इसके inception  .
The team was a founding member of MLS ( 1996  ) , लकिन रै गए through अनेक नाम परिवर्तन .
The team was  originally ज्ञात as the नई york/new जर्सी metrostars  through 1997 .
From the  1998 ऋतु through the 2005 ऋतु , the टोली थी  known as the MetroStars .
On March 9 , 2006 , the  टोली थी बेची to रेड सांड gmbh , अग्रणी to  the team 's current name .
They are the only original MLS franchise not to have won any  significant ट्रॉफी ( सहित नियमित ऋतु , playoffs , और नॉकआउट प्रतियोगिता ) चूंकि  inception .
The team 's best  परिणाम in the mls थी the mls कप फाइनल  in 2008 .
In the US Open Cup ,  the metrostars पहुँचे तीन semifinals ( 1997 , 1998 , 2000 ) , पहले reaching उनके पहला  final in 2003 , losing 1–0 to the Chicago Fire .
On August 26 , 2000 , the  metros ' क्लिंट mathis नियत an mls रिकार्ड  by scoring five goals in a game against the Dallas Burn .
Some  well-known खिलाड़ी कि have निभाई लिये the टोली शामिल giovanni savarese , टिम हावर्ड , टोनी meola , tab ramos , alexi lalas , क्लिंट mathis ,  Jozy Altidore , Michael Bradley , Claudio Reyna , Eddie Pope , Roberto Donadoni , Lothar Matthäus , Adolfo Valencia , Youri Djorkaeff , Amado Guevara , Juan Pablo Ángel , Thierry Henry , Juninho Pernambucano , Jan Gunnar Solli , Rafael Márquez , and Tim Cahill .
The team has also had well-known coaches , including Carlos Queiroz , Carlos Alberto Parreira , Bora Milutinović , Bob  ब्राडली , mo johnston , ब्रूस एरिना और hans backe  .
Confucianism , Taoism , and Buddhism are one , a painting in  the litang स्टाइल portraying तीन मेन हँस by a नदी स्ट्रीम , 12th  century , Song Dynasty .
estimating the क्रमांक of बौद्धों in the संसार , or in अनेक देशों ,  is difficult due to definitional issues as well as practical problems of enumeration .
To begin with ,  the धार्मिक मान्यताओं , practices , और पहचान of ईस्ट एशियाइ ( जो comprise the बहुमत of the संसार 's बौद्धों  by any measure ) often blend Buddhism with other traditions including Confucianism , the Chinese folk religion , Daoism , Shinto , and Korean shamanism .
Most followers of Buddhism do not belong to structured congregations , or observe a  definite अनुष्ठान of adherence ऐसे as लेने शरण , बनाना it मुश्किल  to accurately estimate the number of practitioners .
An additional challenge is the hostility of several national governments ( often Communist ones such as China or  उत्तर कोरियाई ) to धर्म generally or to buddhism  specifically .
सरकारी नीतियों in ये देशों may प्रोत्साहित the under-reporting or non-reporting of धार्मिक adherence , resulting  in official totals that may drastically underestimate the number of religious practitioners in these countries .
Estimate of the worldwide  बौद्ध जनसांख्यिकी दायरा इससे 350 लाख to over एक अरब , लकिन क्लस्टर  nearer to the first figure .
adherents.com ( as of 2012 ) suggests a फिगर  of 397 million .
By major branches , the  संख्याएँ हैं as follows:
( 1 ) Mahayana Buddhism , including  ईस्ट एशियाई buddhism , साथ no कम than 185 लाख adherents , और संभवतः  several times that many ( again , depending on definitional issues ) .
This is the predominant form of Buddhism practiced  in चीन , दक्षिण कोरियाई , जापानी , ताईवान  , Singapore , and Vietnam .
( 2 ) Theravada  buddhism , साथ no कम than  125 million adherents .
This is the  predominant रूप of buddhism practiced in कंबोडिया ,  Thailand , Laos , Sri Lanka , and Burma .
( 3 ) Vajrayana  buddhism , साथ लगभग 20  million adherents .
This form predominates in the greater  तिब्बती और मंगोलियाई regions , as खूब as in the हिमालय  .
Besides the independent countries of Mongolia and Bhutan , and various territories within  कया is अभी पश्चिमी चीन , वज्रयान is परंपरागत to निश्चित regions of रूस ( e.g . कालमिकिया  , Buryatia ) , India ( e.g . Ladakh , Sikkim ) , and Nepal ( e.g . Khumbu ) .
Vajrayana , also known as  तिब्बती buddhism , is प्रायः conflated साथ तांत्रिक buddhism , लकिन इस is imprecise  , as Shingon and other forms of East Asian Buddhism also practice tantra .
At least 7  देशों ( श्री लंका , थाईलैंड , कंबोडिया , लाओस , बर्मा , भूटान ,  and Mongolia ) have unambiguous Buddhist majorities .
Depending on how one calculates Chinese and other  ईस्ट एशियाई adherents , इस फिगर might विस्तार to शामिल  several more countries .
In addition  , buddhism is the राज्य धर्म of कंबोडिया और भूटान , और receives prominent जिक्र  in the constitutions of Thailand and Sri Lanka .
In northern India and Nepal , the land where Buddhism  थी born , the धर्म severely अस्वीकृत दौरान the पहला मिलेनियम  .
Whether this decline was due to the Islamic conquest of northern India , or  to अन्य कारकों , remains विवादास्पद  .
See the article  मनाही of buddhism in  India .
James Butler Hickok ( May 27 , 1837 – August 2 , 1876 ) , better  ज्ञात as जंगली विधेयक hickok , थी a लोक नायिका of the अमरीकी  Old West .
His skills as a gunfighter and scout , along with his reputation as a lawman , provided  the आधार लिये उसके कीर्ति , हालांकि कुछ of उसके reported कारनामे  are fictionalized .
Born and raised on a farm in rural Illinois , Hickok went west at age 18 as a  भगोड़े इससे इंसाफ , पहला working as a stagecoach ड्राइवर , पहले he became a lawman in the frontier  territories of Kansas and Nebraska .
he लड़ा लिये the संघ फौज दौरान the अमरीकी  Civil War , and gained publicity after the war as a scout , marksman , actor , and professional gambler .
Between his  law-enforcement कर्तव्य और जुए , जिससे easily overlapped  , Hickok was involved in several notable shootouts .
He was shot and  मारे जबकि playing पोकर in the nuttal & मन 's सैलून in  Deadwood , Dakota Territory ( now South Dakota ) .
Artist 's conception of  the जिज्ञासा रोवर vaporizing चट्टान  on Mars .
The rover  उतरा on मंगल in अगस्त  2012 .
A Mars rover is an automated motor vehicle which propels itself across the surface  of the ग्रह मंगल बाद लैंडिंग  .
Rovers have several advantages  over stationary landers : वे जाँचें अधिक territory , वे can be निर्देशित to दिलचस्प सुविधाएँ , वे can प्लेस themselves in  sunny positions to weather winter months and they can advance the knowledge of how to perform very remote robotic vehicle control .
There have been four  कामयाब robotically संचालित मंगल  rovers .
The Jet Propulsion Laboratory  प्रबंधित the मंगल pathfinder मिशन और  its now inactive Sojourner rover .
It currently manages  the मंगल खोजी रोवर मिशन 's क्रियाशील अवसर रोवर और  inactive Spirit , and , as part of the Mars Science Laboratory mission , the Curiosity rover .
A financial audit , or more accurately , an audit of  वित्तीय कथन , is the सत्यापन of the वित्तीय कथन of a विधिक  entity , with a view to express an audit opinion .
The audit opinion is intended to provide reasonable assurance , but not absolute  परख , कि the वित्तीय कथन हैं प्रस्तुत fairly , in सब सामग्री respects , and/or दे a  true and fair view in accordance with the financial reporting framework .
the purpose of an ऑडिट is provide और उद्देश्य स्वतंत्र परिक्षा of the वित्तीय कथन , जिससे increases  the value and credibility of the financial statements produced by management , thus increase user confidence in the financial statement , reduce investor risk and consequently reduce the cost of capital of the preparer of the financial statements .
Financial audits are typically performed by firms of practicing  लेखपाल जो हैं विशेषज्ञ in वित्तीय रिपोर्टिंग  .
The financial audit is one  of अनेक परख कृत्यों provided by  accounting firms .
Many organizations separately  employ or hire आतंरिक auditors , जो do नहीं attest to वित्तीय रिपोर्ट्स लकिन फ़ोकस मुख्यतः  on the internal controls of the organization .
External auditors may choose to  प्लेस सीमित रिलायंस on the कार्य of आतंरिक auditors  .
Auditing promotes transparency and accuracy in  the वित्तीय disclosures बना by an संगठन , इसलिए होता  likely to reduce of such corporations to conceal unscrupulous dealings .
Internationally , the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय मानकों on auditing ( isa ) जारी by the अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Auditing and Assurance Standards Board ( IAASB ) is considered as the benchmark for audit process .
Almost all jurisdictions  आवश्यकता auditors to follow the isa or a लोकल विभिन्नता of the  ISA .
Dollar coins  have महरूम minted in the संयुक्त राज्य in सुनहरा  , silver , and base metal versions .
The term silver dollar is often used for any large white metal coin issued by the United States with a face value of one dollar  , हालांकि purists जिद कि a डालर is नहीं चांदी जबतक it contains कुछ  of that metal .
Silver dollars , the first  डालर सिक्का समस्या , यहूद minted शुरूआत  in 1794 .
Gold dollars and gold-colored dollars have also  महरूम उत्पादित by the संयुक्त  States .
The  sacagawea और अध्यक्षीय डॉलर हैं  often referred to as `` golden dollars '' .
In  आधुनिक टाइम्स , डालर सिक्के have नहीं महरूम बहुत लोकप्रिय  in the United States .
Despite efforts by the  सरकारी to प्रचार उनके उपयोग , सबसे अमेरिकी फिलहाल  use the one dollar bill rather than dollar coins .
In  सीधा और स्तर उड़ान लिफ्ट  ( L ) equals weight ( W ) .
In a banked  फेरे of 60° , लिफ्ट बराबरी दोगुना  the weight ( L=2W ) .
The  पायलट अनुभवों 2g और a doubled  weight .
The  steeper the बैंको  , the greater the g-forces .
This top-fuel dragster can  accelerate इससे शून्य to in 0.86 सेकेंड  .
This is a horizontal  त्वरण of 5.3 g. संयुक्त साथ the लंबवत g-force in the  stationary case the Pythagorean theorem yields a g force of 5.4 g .
g-force ( with g from gravitational )  is a पद लिये accelerations  felt as weight and measurable by accelerometers .
It is not a  फ़ोर्स , प्रति se , लकिन  a force per unit mass .
Since such a force is perceived as a weight , any g-force can  be वर्णित as a `` वज़न प्रति ईकाई द्रव्यमान '' ( देखिए the पर्याय विशिष्ट  weight ) .
The  g-force त्वरण अधिनियमों as a गुणक of weight-like शक्तियां लिये प्रत्येक ईकाई of an ऑब्जेक्ट 's द्रव्यमान , और ( सहेजें लिये निश्चित इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक फ़ोर्स  influences ) is the cause of an object 's acceleration in relation to free-fall .
This  त्वरण अनुभवी by an ऑब्जेक्ट is due to the वेक्टर योग of  non-gravitational forces acting on an object free to move .
The  accelerations कि हैं नहीं उत्पादित by गम्भीरता हैं termed उचित accelerations , और it  is only these that are measured in g-force units .
They cause  तनावों और strains on वस्तुएँ  .
Because of these strains , large  g-forces may be destructive  .
Gravitation acting alone does not produce a  g-force , भी हालांकि g-forces हैं expressed in multiples  of the acceleration of a standard gravity .
Thus , the standard  गुरुत्वाकर्षक त्वरण at the धरती  's surface produces g-force only indirectly , as a result of resistance to it by mechanical forces .
The 1 g-force on an object sitting on the  धरती 's सतह is caused by mechanical फ़ोर्स exerted in the upward दिशा  by the ground , keeping the object from going into free-fall .
The upward force from the ground ensures  कि an ऑब्जेक्ट at बाकी on the धरती 's सतह is accelerating सापेक्ष to the free-fall कंडीशन  , which is the path that the object would follow when falling freely toward the Earth 's center .
Objects allowed to free-fall in an inertial  trajectory अंतर्गत the influence of gravitation-only  , feel no g-force .
This is demonstrated by the `` zero-g '' conditions inside a  freely गिरना लिफ्ट गिरना toward the धरती 's बीच ( in वैक्यूम ) , or  ( to good approximation ) conditions inside a spacecraft in Earth orbit .
These are  उदाहरण of निर्देशांक त्वरण ( a बदलें  in velocity ) without a sensation of weight .
The experience of  no g-force ( zero-g ) , however it is उत्पादित  , is synonymous with weightlessness .
In the  अनुपस्थिति of गुरुत्वाकर्षक फ़ील्ड , or in दिशानिर्देश at सही कोण to उन्हें , उचित और निर्देशांक  accelerations are the same , and any coordinate acceleration must be produced by a corresponding g-force acceleration .
An example here is a rocket in free space , in which  सरल परिवर्तन in गति हैं  produced by the engines , and produce g-forces on the rocket and passengers .
An augur holding a lituus ,  the curved wand प्रायः प्रयुक्त as  a symbol of augury on Roman coins
The augur  थी a पुजारी और आधिकारिक in the शास्त्रीय  world , especially ancient Rome and Etruria .
His main role was to interpret the will of the gods by studying the flight of birds : whether they  हैं उड़ती in समूह or अलोन , कया noises  they make as they fly , direction of flight and what kind of birds they are .
This was  ज्ञात as `` लेने the auspices  . ''
The ceremony and function  of the augur थी सेंट्रल to कोई प्रमुख undertaking in रोमन society—public or  private—including matters of war , commerce , and religion .
The Roman historian Livy stresses the importance of the augurs : `` Who does not know  कि इस नगर थी संस्थापित तभी बाद लेने the auspices , कि सबकुछ in युद्ध और in सलाम  , at home and abroad , was done only after taking the auspices ? ''
Farmington Hills is an affluent community  in southeastern मिशिगन  .
It is  the दूसरी largest नगर in ओकलैंड  County in the U.S. state of Michigan .
Its population  थी 79,740 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी  .
It is part of the upscale northwestern suburbs of  महानगर डेट्रॉयट  and is also northeast of downtown Ann Arbor .
Farmington Hills consistently ranks as one of the safest cities in the United  राज्य , as खूब as in the राज्य of  Michigan .
In 2010 , the area  क्रमित as the 30th safest नगर in अमेरिका  .
Although the two cities have separate services and addresses , Farmington and Farmington Hills  हैं प्रायः विचार of as the वही जातियाँ  .
Features of the community include a recently renovated downtown , boutiques , a vintage cinema , numerous restaurants , exotic car  dealerships , आर्ट गैलरी , और पब्लिक पार्क सहित  Heritage Park .
There are several historical sites  सहित the longacre हाउस और the राज्यपाल  Warner Mansion .
Both cities are served  by farmington पब्लिक  Schools .
Farmington Hills serves as  a प्रमुख कारोबार बीच  for the greater Detroit area .
present-day छाप  of a Late Bronze Age seal
Town  मुहर (  matrix ) of Náchod from 1570
A seal  is a यंत्र लिये बनाना an छाप in मोम , मिट्टी , पेपर , or कुछ अन्य  medium , including an embossment on paper , and is also the impression thus made .
The original purpose was to authenticate a  दस्तावेज़ , a wrapper लिये एक ऐसे as a आधुनिक लिफाफा , or the कवर  of a container or package holding valuables or other objects .
The sealing process is essentially that of a mould , with the final image represented on the device for  बनाना the छाप by a mirror-image डिज़ाइन ,  incised in sunken- ( or counter- ) relief or intaglio .
The seal-making device is also referred to as the  मुहर मेट्रिक्स or die ; the imprint it creates as the मुहर छाप ( or , अधिक  rarely , the sealing ) .
If the  छाप is बना purely as a राहत resulting इससे the वृहद दबाव on the पेपर जहाँ the ऊँची भाग of the मेट्रिक्स टच , the मुहर is ज्ञात as a शुष्क  seal ; in all other cases a liquid or liquified medium ( such as ink or wax ) is used , usually in another color than the paper .
For legal purposes , the definition of a seal  may be विस्तारित to शामिल रबर stamps , or लिखने  specified words ( `` seal '' or `` L.S . `` ) .
In the United States , the word ``  मुहर '' is sometimes आबंटित to a facsimile of the मुहर डिज़ाइन ( in मोनोक्रोम or रंग ) , जिससे may be प्रयुक्त in a किस्में of contexts सहित  architectural settings , on flags , or on official letterheads .
Thus , for example , the Great Seal of the United States , among other uses , appears on the reverse of the  one-dollar विधेयक ; और अनेक of the seals of the u.S. राज्य appear on उनके संबंधित राज्य ध्वज  .
In Europe , although coats of arms and heraldic badges may well feature in such contexts as well as on seals , the seal  डिज़ाइन in इसके entirety rarely appears as an emblem  .
The study of  seals is ज्ञात as sigillography  or sphragistics .
Groundhog Day (  पेन्सिलवेनिया जर्मनी : grundsaudaag , murmeltiertag  ) is a day celebrated on February 2 .
According to folklore , if it is cloudy  जब a groundhog emerges इससे इसके burrow on इस दिन , तब वसन्त होगा आइये जल्दी ; if it  is sunny , the groundhog will supposedly see its shadow and retreat back into its burrow , and the winter weather will continue for six more weeks .
Modern customs of the holiday involve celebrations where  जल्दी morning त्यौहार हैं आयोजित to देखें the groundhog उभरते इससे  its burrow .
In southeastern Pennsylvania , Groundhog Lodges ( Grundsow Lodges ) celebrate the  अवकाश साथ fersommlinge , सोशल कार्यक्रम in जिससे खाना is परोसा , भाषणों हैं बना , और एक or अधिक g'spiel ( plays or skits  ) are performed for entertainment .
The Pennsylvania German dialect is the only language spoken at the event ,  और those जो बोलो अंग्रेज़ी अदा a दंड , प्रायः in the रूप of a निकल , dime , or क्वार्टर प्रति  word spoken , with the money put into a bowl in the center of the table .
the largest groundhog दिन जश्न is आयोजित in punxsutawney  , Pennsylvania .
Groundhog  दिन , already a widely पहचाना और लोकप्रिय परंपरा , प्राप्त फैली ध्यान as a परिणाम of the 1993 फिल्मी groundhog दिन , जिससे थी नियत in punxsutawney  , PA ( though filmed primarily in Woodstock , IL ) and portrayed Punxsutawney Phil .
High  रेज़ोल्यूशन चित्र of tampa खाड़ी  region
The Tampa Bay area has a humid subtropical climate  ( koppen cfa ) , साथ गरम और आर्द्र ग्रीष्म साथ बारंबार thunderstorms और drier सर्दियों साथ जमने  temperatures occurring every 2–3 years .
The area experiences a significant summer wet season , as  nearly two-thirds of the सालाना वर्षण जलप्रपात in  the months of June through September .
The area is listed by the United States Department of Agriculture  ( यूएसडीए ) as होने in hardiness मण्डल 10 , जिससे is परिचय the उत्तरी सीमा of जहाँ  coconut palms and royal palms can be grown .
Highs usually range  between 65 और 95 °f ( 18 और 35  °C ) year round .
Though known for hot summers , Tampa 's official high has never reached 100 °F ( 38 °C ) –  the नगर 's all-time रिकार्ड तापमान is 99 °f ( 37 °c )  .
St.  पीटर्सबर्ग 's all-time रिकार्ड ऊँची is  exactly 100 °F ( 38 °C ) .
Pinellas County lies on a peninsula between Tampa Bay and  the गल्फ of मैक्सिको , और much of the नगर of tampa झूठ on  a smaller peninsula jutting out into Tampa Bay .
This proximity to large bodies of water both moderates  temperatures और introduces विशाल amounts  of humidity into the atmosphere .
In general , the local communities farthest from the coast have larger temperature ranges ,  दोनो दौरान a सिंगल दिन और throughout the सीज़न of the  year .
A diagram of the  इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक वर्णक्रम , प्रर्दशित विभिन्न गुण आरपार the  range of frequencies and wavelengths
The electromagnetic  वर्णक्रम is the दायरा of सब संभावित बारंबारता of इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक  radiation .
The `` electromagnetic  वर्णक्रम '' of an ऑब्जेक्ट रै a अलग अर्थ , और is बजाय the characteristic  distribution of electromagnetic radiation emitted or absorbed by that particular object .
The  इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक वर्णक्रम extends इससे नीचे the कम बारंबारता प्रयुक्त लिये आधुनिक रेडियो संचार  to gamma radiation at the short- wavelength ( high-frequency ) end , thereby covering wavelengths from thousands of kilometers down to a fraction of the size of an atom .
The limit for long wavelengths is the size of the universe itself ,  जबकि it is विचार कि the छोटी wavelength सीमा is in the vicinity of the प्लांक लंबाई , हालांकि in principle  the spectrum is infinite and continuous .
Most parts of the electromagnetic spectrum are used in science for spectroscopic and  अन्य probing interactions , as तरीके to पढ़ाई और characterize  matter .
In addition , radiation from various parts  of the वर्णक्रम रै मिला अनेक अन्य उपयोग लिये संचार और निर्माण  ( see electromagnetic radiation for more applications ) .
लेजेंड
Franklin Delano Roosevelt ( or ; January 30 , 1882 – April 12 , 1945 ) , also known by his initials , FDR , was the 32nd President of the United States (  1933–1945 ) और a सेंट्रल फिगर in संसार कार्यक्रम दौरान the mid-20th सदी , अग्रणी the संयुक्त राज्य दौरान a समय of विश्वव्यापी  economic depression and total war .
A dominant leader of the Democratic Party and the only American president elected to more than two terms , he built a New  सौदे गठबन्धन कि realigned अमरीकी राजनीती बाद 1932 , as उसके घरेलू नीतियों पारिभाषित अमरीकी उदारतावाद लिये the मध्य  third of the 20th century .
With the bouncy popular song `` Happy Days Are Here Again `` as his campaign theme ,  fdr पराजित लाज़िम रिपब्लिकन हर्बर्ट हूवर in नवम्बर 1932 ,  at the depth of the Great Depression .
Energized by his personal victory  over पोलियो , fdr 's unfailing आशावाद और सक्रियता contributed  to a renewal of the national spirit .
He worked closely  साथ अंग्रेजों प्रधान मंत्री विंस्टन चर्चिल और सोवियत सामान्य  Secretary Joseph Stalin in leading the Allies against Germany and Japan in World War II , and restoring prosperity to the nation 's economy .
In his first hundred days in office , which began March 4 , 1933 , Roosevelt  पथप्रदर्शन प्रमुख विधान और जारी a profusion of कार्यपालिका आदेश कि instituted the नई सौदे —a किस्में of कार्यक्रम designed  to produce relief ( government jobs for the unemployed ) , recovery ( economic growth ) , and reform ( through regulation of Wall Street , banks and transportation ) .
The economy improved rapidly from 1933 to 1937 , but then  relapsed into a गहन मंदी  .
The bipartisan Conservative Coalition that formed in 1937 prevented his packing the Supreme Court or passing any considerable legislation ; it  abolished अनेक of the राहत कार्यक्रम जब बेरोजगारी diminished दौरान संसार  War II .
Most of the regulations on business were ended about  1975–85 , मगर लिये the विनियमन of वॉल गली by the प्रतिभूति और एक्सचेंज आयोग , जिससे  still exists .
Along with several  छोटी कार्यक्रम , प्रमुख surviving कार्यक्रम शामिल the संघीय जमा बीमे निगम , जिससे  was created in 1933 , and Social Security , which Congress passed in 1935 .
As World War II loomed after 1938 , with the Japanese invasion of China and the aggression of Nazi Germany , FDR gave strong diplomatic  और वित्तीय support to चीन और ग्रेट ब्रिटेन , जबकि बाकी  officially neutral .
His goal was  to मेक अमेरिका the `` आर्सेनल of लोकतंत्र  `` which would supply munitions to the Allies .
In March 1941 , Roosevelt , with Congressional approval , provided  lend-lease सहायता to the देशों लड़ विरूद्ध  Nazi Germany with Britain .
With very strong national support , he made war on Japan and Germany after the  जापानी आक्रमण on पर्ल हार्बर on दिसम्बर 7 , 1941 , कॉलिंग it a `` तिथि  which will live in infamy `` .
he पर्यवेक्षित the mobilization of the  U.S. economy to support the Allied war effort .
As an active military leader , Roosevelt implemented an overall war strategy on two fronts that  ended in the शिकस्त of the अक्ष शक्तियां और the विकास of the संसार 's पहला  atom bomb .
In 1942 Roosevelt ordered the internment  of 100,000 जापानी अमरीकी नागरिकों  .
Unemployment dropped to 2 % , relief programs largely ended , and the industrial economy  grew rapidly to नई हाइट्स as लाखो of लोगों स्थानांतरित to नई कार्य in युद्ध centers , और 16  million men and 300,000 women were drafted or volunteered for military service .
Roosevelt dominated the American  राजनैतिक झाँकी नहीं तभी दौरान the बारह सालो of उसके  presidency , but also for decades afterward .
He orchestrated the  realignment of मतदाता कि निर्मित the  Fifth Party System .
FDR 's New Deal  गठबन्धन संयुक्त मजदूर संघ , बिग नगर मशीने  , white ethnics , African Americans and rural white Southerners .
He also influenced the later creation  of the संयुक्त राष्ट्र और  Bretton Woods .
Roosevelt is consistently rated by scholars as one of the top  तीन u.S. राष्ट्रपतियों , साथ साथ  Abraham Lincoln and George Washington .
A liberal Democrat , Roosevelt defined his ideological  स्थिति as `` a छोटी बाएँ  of center . ''
A Joint Committee is a term in politics that is  प्रयुक्त to refer to a कमेटी बना up of सदस्यों  of both chambers of a bicameral legislature .
In other contexts , it  refers to a कमेटी साथ सदस्यों इससे अधिक  than one organization .
The regulation of prostitution in the United States is not among the  enumerated शक्तियां of the संघीय सरकारी ; अंतर्गत the दसवाँ amendment to the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान ,  it is therefore exclusively the domain of the states to permit , prohibit , or otherwise regulate commercial sex , except insofar as Congress may regulate it as part of interstate commerce with laws like the Mann Act .
In most states ,  वेश्यावृति is माना a misdemeanor in the श्रेणी  of public order crime , a crime that disrupts the order of a community .
It was at  एक समय माना  to be a vagrancy crime .
Currently , Nevada is the only state to allow brothel  वेश्यावृति , the शर्तें of जिससे हैं stipulated in the नेवाडा  Revised Statutes .
Only 8 counties currently  contain क्रियाशील brothels  .
सब फ़ॉर्म of वेश्यावृति हैं illegal in क्लार्क काउंटी ( जिससे contains the लास vegas–paradise महानगर क्षेत्रफल ) ,  Washoe County ( which contains Reno ) , Carson City , Douglas County , and Lincoln County .
The other counties theoretically allow  वेश्यालय वेश्यावृति , लकिन कुछ  of these counties currently have no active brothels .
Street prostitution , `` pandering , '' and living off of the  proceeds of a वेश्या remain illegal अंतर्गत नेवाडा विधि , as elsewhere  in the country .
As with other countries , prostitution in the United States  can be विभाजित into तीन व्यापक श्रेणी : गली वेश्यावृति , वेश्यालय वेश्यावृति  , and escort prostitution .
The national flag of the United States of America , often simply referred to as the American flag , consists of thirteen equal horizontal stripes of red ( top and bottom )  प्रत्यावर्ती साथ श्वेत , साथ a ब्लू आयताकार in the कैण्टन ( referred to specifically as the `` संघ '' ) bearing पचास छोटी , श्वेत  , five-pointed stars arranged in nine offset horizontal rows of six stars ( top and bottom ) alternating with rows of five stars .
The 50 stars on the flag represent the 50 states of the United States of America and the 13 stripes represent the thirteen  अंग्रेजों colonies कि घोषित स्वतंत्रता इससे the किंगडम of ग्रेट ब्रिटेन और became the  first states in the Union .
Nicknames for the flag include the `` Stars and Stripes  '' , `` बूढ़ा महिमा `` , और `` the star-spangled  Banner . ''
India is a federal union of states comprising  twenty-eight राज्य और सात संघ  territories .
The states and territories are further  subdivided into जिले  and so on .
congressional जिले लिये the 113th  United States Congress
2010  जनसांख्यिकी change:
बदलें in apportionment of congressional जिले  , starting in 2013 , as a result of the 2010 census .
2000  जनसांख्यिकी  change:
Change in apportionment of  congressional जिले , इससे 2003 to 2013 , as a परिणाम of the  2000 census .
This is a complete list of congressional districts for  प्रतिनिधित्व in the संयुक्त राज्य हाउस of प्रतिनिधि  .
The quantity ( apportionment ) and boundaries ( redistricting ) of districts are determined after  प्रत्येक जनसांख्यिकी , हालांकि in कुछ मामले राज्य have बदला the सीमाएँ  more than once per census .
This list  शामिल the 435 वर्तमान और over 200 obsolete  districts .
For example , since the 2000  जनसांख्यिकी , नेब्रास्का रै था तीन जिले , लकिन it प्रयुक्त  to have as many as six .
In the first decade of the twenty-first century , Texas had 32 districts , but has since  added चार due to reapportionment as a परिणाम of the 2010  census .
Other states have lost  जिले चूंकि the क्रमांक of congressional सीटे रै महरूम  set at 435 by statute .
Also  शामिल यहाँ हैं non-voting delegations : छह वर्तमान  and four obsolete .
The boundaries of districts  प्रायः शिफ़्ट साथ प्रत्येक redistricting  .
Over time , the region and  जनसांख्यिकी represented in a ज़िला can बदलें substantially  .
Furthermore , districts  sometimes retain the वही सीमाएँ जबकि  changing their district numbers .
Mariah Carey ( born March 27 , 1970 ) is an  अमरीकी सिंगर , songwriter , रिकार्ड निर्माता , अभिनेत्री , और लोकसेवक  .
Under the guidance of Columbia Records  कार्यपालिका टॉमी mottola , कैरी released उसके self-titled डेब्यू स्टुडियो एल्बम mariah कैरी in 1990 ; it गई multi-platinum और शाखित चार लगातार  number one singles on the U.S . Billboard Hot 100 chart .
Following her marriage to Mottola in 1993 and  कामयाबी साथ hit रिकॉर्ड भाव ( 1991 ) , म्यूज़िक बक्सा ( 1993 ) , और मैरी क्रिसमस ( 1994 ) , कैरी  was established as Columbia 's highest-selling act .
Daydream ( 1995 ) made music history when its second single `` One Sweet Day `` , a duet with Boyz II Men , spent a record  सोलह सप्ताह on शीर्ष of the बिलबोर्ड hot 100 , और remains the longest-running number-one सोंग in  U.S. chart history .
दौरान the रिकॉर्डिंग of the एल्बम , कैरी began to deviate इससे उसके  R & B and pop beginnings and slowly traversed into hip hop .
This musical change became evident with the  रिलीज of तितली ( 1997 ) , at जिससे समय कैरी था अलग  from Mottola .
Carey left Columbia in 2000 , and signed a  record-breaking $ 100 लाख रिकॉर्डिंग अनुबंध साथ वर्जिन  Records .
Before the release of her first feature  फिल्मी glitter ( 2001 ) , वो suffered a शारीरिक और emotional विश्लेषण और थी hospitalized  for severe exhaustion .
Following the film 's poor reception , she was  खरीदा आउट of उसके रिकॉर्डिंग अनुबंध लिये $ 50 लाख  , which led to a decline in her career .
She signed a multi-million dollar contract deal with Island  रिकॉर्ड in 2002 , और बाद an unsuccessful काल , लौटे to the शीर्ष of म्यूज़िक  charts with The Emancipation of Mimi ( 2005 ) .
Its second single `` We Belong  साथ `` became उसके सबसे कामयाब सिंगल of the 2000s , और थी बाद  named `` Song of the Decade '' by Billboard .
Carey once again ventured into film  साथ a well-received अभिनीत भूमिका in ( 2009 ) ; वो थी awarded the `` भेदन  Performance Award '' at the Palm Springs International Film Festival , and Black Reel and NAACP Image Award nominations .
In a career  spanning over दो दशकों , कैरी रै बेची अधिक than 200 लाख  records worldwide , making her one of the best-selling music artists of all time .
in 1998 , वो थी सम्मानित as the संसार  's best-selling recording artist of the 1990s at the World Music Awards .
Carey was also  नामित the best-selling मादा कलाकार of the  millennium in 2000 .
According to the Recording Industry Association of  अमेरिका , वो is the तीसरा best-selling मादा कलाकार in the संयुक्त  States , with 63.5 million certified albums .
With the release of `` Touch  my देह `` ( 2008 ) , कैरी gained उसके eighteenth क्रमांक  one single in the United States , more than any other solo artist .
In 2012 , Carey was ranked second on  vh1 's सूची of the `` 100 महानतम महिलाओं  in Music '' .
Aside from her commercial accomplishments , Carey has won five Grammy Awards , 17  संसार म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार , 11 अमरीकी म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार , और 31 बिलबोर्ड म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार  .
referred to as the `` songbird परम् '' by the गिनीज संसार रिकॉर्ड  , she is famed for her five-octave vocal range , power , melismatic style and signature use of the whistle register .
Stratocumulus  stratiformis cumulogenitus
In meteorology , a  बादल is a दृश्य द्रव्यमान of द्रव droplets or frozen crystals बना of जल or विभिन्न रसायन  suspended in the atmosphere above the surface of a planetary body .
These suspended  अणु हैं भी ज्ञात  as aerosols .
Clouds in Earth 's atmosphere  हैं पढ़ाई in the बादल भौतिकी शाखा of meteorology  .
Two processes , possibly acting together , can lead to air becoming saturated ;  कूलिंग the एयर or adding जल वाष्प to the एयर  .
In  सामान्य , वर्षण होगा पतन to the सतह ; an एक्सेप्शन  is virga , which evaporates before reaching the surface .
the अंतरराष्ट्रीय बादल वर्गीकरण प्रणाली is आधारित on the फैक्ट बादल in उनके सबसे मौलिक फ़ॉर्म can  show free-convective upward growth like cumulus , appear in non-convective layered sheets such as stratus , or take the form of thin fibrous wisps , as in the case of cirrus .
Prefixes are used in connection with clouds to express variations or complexities in these basic  फ़ॉर्म or to बताएँ मध्य or ऊँची ऊँचाई सीमाएँ .
These include strato- for low clouds with limited convection that form mostly in uneven layers  , cumulo- लिये जटिल highly-convective तूफ़ान बादल , nimbo- लिये मोटा परतदार बादल of कुछ जटिलता कि can उपज मॉडरेट to भारी वर्षण  , alto- for middle clouds , and cirro- for high clouds ; the latter two of which may be of simple or moderately complex structure .
Whether or not a cloud is low , middle  , or ऊँची स्तर depends on कैसा दूर ऊपर the  ground its base forms .
Cloud types with significant  लंबवत extent can रूप in the कम or मध्य ऊँचाई सीमाएँ depending  on the moisture content of the air .
Clouds in the  क्षोभमण्डल have लैटिन names due to the लोकप्रिय अनुकूलन of ल्यूक हावर्ड  's cloud categorization system , which began to spread in popularity during December 1802 .
Synoptic surface weather observations  उपयोग कोड संख्याएँ to रिकार्ड और रपट the प्रकार of tropospheric बादल दृश्य at प्रत्येक अनुसूचित  observation time based on the height and physical appearance of the clouds .
While a majority of clouds form in Earth  's क्षोभमण्डल , वहीँ हैं अवसरों जब बादल  in the stratosphere and mesosphere can be observed .
These three main layers of the  माहौल जहाँ बादल may be देखी हैं collectively  known as the homosphere .
Above this lies the  thermosphere और exosphere , जिससे साथ मेक up  the heterosphere that marks the transition to outer space .
Clouds have been observed on other planets and moons within the Solar System , but , due to their different  तापमान विशेषताएँ , वे हैं रचित of अन्य substances ऐसे as मिथेन , अमोनिया , और sulfuric  acid .
Galveston County is a county located in the U.S.  राज्य of टेक्सास भीतर the houston–sugar  Land–Baytown metropolitan area .
As of the 2010  जनसांख्यिकी , the जनसांख्यिकी थी  291,309 .
Its county  सीट is galveston  .
League City is the largest city in Galveston County in terms of  जनसांख्यिकी ; url_http between 2000 और 2005 it surpassed  Galveston as the county 's largest city .
galveston काउंटी थी संस्थापित  in 1838 .
nassau
freeport ,  Bahamas
इस is a सूची of शहरों  in the Bahamas .
The following  तालिका सूचियाँ the नगर or कस्बा नाम , the भौगोलिक निर्देशांक , the जनसांख्यिकी  as of the 1990 census , an estimate of the population as of 2009 , and the island name .
The Big Ten Conference , formerly Western Conference and  बिग नौ सम्मेलन , is the oldest  Division I college athletic conference in the United States .
Its twelve member institutions ( which are primarily flagship research universities in their  संबंधित राज्य , well-regarded academically , और साथ अपेक्षाकृत विशाल छात्र नामांकन ) हैं स्तिथ primarily in the  Midwest , stretching from Nebraska in the west to Penn State in the east .
The conference competes in the NCAA 's Division I ; its football teams compete in the  फ़ुटबॉल कटोरी subdivision ( fbs ) , formerly ज्ञात as प्रभाग i-a , the उच्चतम स्तर  of NCAA competition in that sport .
Member schools of the Big Ten ( or , in two cases , their parent university systems )  भी हैं सदस्यों of the कमेटी on संस्थागत सहयोग  , a leading educational and research consortium .
Despite the conference 's name , the Big Ten  दरअसल consists of 12 स्कूलों , following the जोड of the  Pennsylvania State University in 1993 and the University of Nebraska–Lincoln in 2011 .
In 2014 , the conference will expand to 14 members with the  परिवर्धन of the विश्वविद्यालयों of मेरीलैंड , कॉलेज पार्क और rutgers , the राज्य विश्वविद्यालयों of नई जर्सी  .
It  is नहीं to be उलझन साथ the बिग 12 सम्मेलन , जिससे रै तभी टेन  schools and represents a different region of the country .
Single Malt Scotch is single malt whisky made in  स्कॉटलैंड using a घट स्टिल आसवन प्रक्रम at a सिंगल  distillery , with malted barley as the only grain ingredient .
As with any Scotch whisky , a single  malt स्कॉच जरूर be आसुत in स्कॉटलैंड और matured in ओक casks in स्कॉटलैंड लिये at तनिक  three years ( most single malts are matured longer ) .
`` Malt '' indicates that the whisky is distilled  इससे a `` malted '' अनाज  .
Several types of grains can  be malted ( लिये उदाहरण , जौ , rye और गेहूं हैं सब दाने जिससे can be malted ) ; however ,  in the case of single malt Scotch , barley is always the only grain used .
``  सिंगल '' indicates कि सब the malts  in the bottle come from a single distillery .
Bottlings containing malt whisky from multiple  distilleries हैं पुकारा `` blended malt  `` .
Until the Scotch Whisky Regulations 2009 ( SWR 2009 ) , the word `` blended '' only appeared ( in the  कॉन्टेक्स्ट of स्कॉच व्हिस्की ) on बोतलों of व्हिस्की कि contained a मिश्रण of दोनो जौ और non-barley अनाज व्हिस्की  , but this is no longer the case .
Under the terminology established by the SWR 2009 , a `` blended malt Scotch whisky '' is a mixture of  सिंगल malt स्कॉच whiskies , नहीं a मिश्रण of malted जौ व्हिस्की और non-barley व्हिस्की ; those  are called `` blended Scotch whisky '' , without the word `` malt '' .
The term `` blended malt ''  replaced `` vatted malt '' प्रयुक्त अंतर्गत the prior लेबलिंग  conventions .
The age statement on a bottle of single  malt स्कॉच is the क्रमांक of सालो the व्हिस्की खर्च  maturing in cask .
As very few whiskies are bottled from a single cask the age  बयान reflects the आयु of the youngest malt  in the mix .
A texture may be  arranged so as to , `` closely दृष्टिकोण the single-object औकात of fused-ensemble timbres , लिये उदाहरण , the खूबसूरत 'northern लाइट्स ' कॉर्ड ... , in a बहुत  interesting distribution of pitches , produces a fused sound supported by a suspended cymbal roll `` ( Erickson ( 1975 ) , p.166 & 168 ) .
In contrast to more traditional musical textures , sound mass composition `` minimizes  the महत्व of व्यक्तिगत pitches in वरीयता लिये बनावट , timbre  , and dynamics as primary shapers of gesture and impact . ''
Developed from the modernist tone clusters and spread to  orchestral लिखने by the लेट 1950s और 1960s , sound-mass `` obscures the boundary  between sound and noise `` ( Edwards 2001 , pp . 326–27 ) .
तकनीकों जिससे may बनाएँ or be प्रयुक्त साथ ध्वनि द्रव्यमान शामिल विस्तारित तकनीकों ऐसे as मूक पीतल or स्ट्रिंग्स  , flutter tonguing , wide vibrato , extreme ranges , and glissandos .
Composers and works include Barbara  kolb , pauline oliveros ' ध्वनि पैटर्न लिये कोरस ( 1961 ) , norma beecroft 's इससे सपनो of  Brass for chorus ( 1963–1964 ) , and Nancy Van de Vate .
Beecroft `` blurs individual pitches in favor of a collective timbre through the use of  गायन और इंस्ट्रूमेंटल क्लस्टर , choral वाक , narrator , और a धो of ध्वनि इससे an इलेक्ट्रॉनिक  tape . ''
( ibid  )
A very  जल्दी उदाहरण is the खोलने of jean-féry विद्रोही 's बैले लेस elémens ( 1737–38 ) , जहाँ अराजकता  is represented by a gradually cumulating orchestral cluster of all seven notes of the D minor scale ( Henck 2004 , pp . 52–54 ) .
A later example is the third movement of Ruth Crawford Seeger 's String Quartet 1931 (  nonesuch h-71280 ) जबकि अधिक recently phill niblock 's अनेक ड्रोन आधारित म्यूज़िक  serves as an example .
The use of `` chords approaching timbres '' begins with  debussy और edgard varèse प्रायः carefully scored व्यक्तिगत इंस्ट्रूमेंटल भाग so कि वे होता फ्यूज into एक ensemble  timbre or sound mass ( Erickson 1975 , pp . 18 and 21 ) .
Other examples include European `` textural '' compositions of the fifties and sixties  ऐसे as krzysztof penderecki 's threnody to the पीड़ितों of हिरोशिमा ( 1959 ) और györgy ligeti 's works featuring micropolyphony  in works like Atmosphères ( 1961 ) and his Requiem ( 1963-65 ) .
Other composers with works using this  तकनीक शामिल henryk górecki , karel husa , witold lutosławski , kazimierz  Serocki , and Steven Stucky .
Sound mass techniques also appear in  the म्यूज़िक of जार्ज crumb ( anon . n.d. )  .
Students attending a lecture on linear algebra  at the हेलसिंकी विश्वविद्यालयों of  Technology
विद्यार्थियों in ग्रामीण सूडान  , 2002
A student is a learner , or  किसी जो attends an शैक्षणिक संस्था  .
In some nations , the English term ( or its cognate in another language ) is reserved for those who attend university , while a schoolchild under the age of eighteen is called a pupil in  अंग्रेज़ी ( or an समतुल्य in अन्य भाषाएं ) , हालांकि in the संयुक्त राज्य a व्यक्ति  enrolled in grades K–12 is often called a student .
In its widest use , student is used  लिये anyone जो is सीखना  .
Australia is a continent  comprising मेनलैंड ऑस्ट्रेलिया , तस्मानिया , नई गिनी , seram , संभवतः  Timor , and neighbouring islands .
The continent is sometimes known in technical contexts by the names Sahul ,  australinea or meganesia , to फर्क it इससे the ऑस्ट्रेलियाई मेनलैंड .
It is the smallest of the seven  परंपरागत महाद्वीपों in the अंग्रेज़ी धारणा  .
New  जीलैंड is नहीं भाग of the महाद्वीप of ऑस्ट्रेलिया , लकिन of the  separate , submerged continent of Zealandia .
Zealandia and Australia are both  भाग of the wider regions ज्ञात as  Australasia and Oceania .
The continent of Australia lies on a continental shelf overlain by shallow seas which divide it into several  landmasses — the अराफुरा समुद्र और टोरेस जलसन्धि between मेनलैंड ऑस्ट्रेलिया और  New Guinea , and Bass Strait between mainland Australia and Tasmania .
When sea levels were lower  दौरान the pleistocene बर्फ आयु , सहित the पिछला glacial अधिकतम परिचय 18,000  BC , they were connected by dry land .
During  the पास्ट टेन हजार सालो , उठती समुद्र स्तर overflowed the lowlands और अलग  the continent into today 's low-lying arid to semi-arid mainland and the two mountainous islands of New Guinea and Tasmania .
Geologically , a continent extends to the edge of its continental  शेल्फ , so the now-separate आइलैंड्स हैं माना भाग of  the continent .
Due to the spread of animals , fungi and plants across the single  pleistocene landmass the पृथक lands have a सम्बन्धित biota  .
सेंट्रल पार्क is nearly twice as बिग as the  world 's second-smallest country , Monaco .
Historically its  टंकी यहूद महत्वपूर्ण components of the नगर 's जल सप्लाई  .
Environmental issues in New York City are affected by the city 's size , density , abundant  पब्लिक परिवहन अवसंरचना , और स्थान  at the mouth of the Hudson River .
New York 's population density has  पर्यावरणीय फायदे और  cons .
It facilitates the highest mass  पारगमन उपयोग in the संयुक्त राज्य , लकिन  also concentrates pollution .
Gasoline consumption in the city is at the rate the national average was in the 1920s , and  ग्रीनहाउस गैस emissions हैं a भिन्न of the नेशनल औसत , at 7.1 मीट्रिक टन प्रति व्यक्ति प्रति साल , नीचे  San Francisco , at 11.2 metric tons , and the national average , at 24.5 metric tons .
New  यॉर्क नगर खाते लिये तभी 1 % of संयुक्त राज्य ग्रीनहाउस गैस emissions  while housing 2.7 % of its population .
In September 2012 , New York was named the # 1 `` America 's Dirtiest City , '' by a Travel+Leisure  readership सर्वेक्षण कि रेटेड the पर्यावरणीय विशेषता of 35 prominent शहरों in the संयुक्त  States .
Atlanta ( , stressed , locally ) is the  पूंजी of और the सबसे populous नगर in the u.S. राज्य  of Georgia , with an estimated 2011 population of 432,427 .
Atlanta is the cultural and economic center of the Atlanta metropolitan area , home to  5,457,831 लोगों और the नवीं largest महानगर क्षेत्रफल  in the United States .
Atlanta is the county seat of Fulton County , and a  छोटी portion of the नगर extends eastward into dekalb  County .
Atlanta was established in 1837 at the intersection of two railroad lines , and the city rose from the ashes of  the सिविल युद्ध to become a नेशनल बीच of कॉमर्स  .
In the decades following the  सिविल अधिकारों गति , दौरान जिससे the नगर अर्जित a प्रतिष्ठा as `` too व्यस्त to नफ़रत '' लिये the प्रगतिशील  views of its citizens and leaders , Atlanta attained international prominence .
Atlanta is the primary transportation hub of the Southeastern United States ,  via राजमार्ग , रेलरोड , और एयर , साथ hartsfield–jackson अटलांटा अंतरराष्ट्रीय विमानक्षेत्र होने  the world 's busiest airport since 1998 .
Atlanta  is माना an `` अल्फा ( - ) संसार नगर , '' और , साथ a सकल घरेलू उत्पाद of us $ 270 अरब  , Atlanta’s economy ranks 15th among world cities and sixth in the nation .
Although Atlanta’s economy is considered diverse , dominant  सेक्टर शामिल लोजिस्टिक्स , पेशेवर और कारोबार सेवाएं , मीडिया परिचालन , सरकारी प्रशासन  , and higher education .
Topographically ,  अटलांटा is चिह्नित by रोलिंग  hills and dense tree coverage .
Revitalization of Atlanta 's neighborhoods , initially spurred by the 1996 Olympics , has intensified in  the 21st सदी , altering the नगर 's जनसांख्यिकी , राजनीती  , and culture .
A 1947 propaganda comic book published by the  catechetical गिल्ड शैक्षणिक समाज उठाने the specter of a कम्युनिस्ट  takeover
McCarthyism is the practice of making accusations of disloyalty ,  subversion , or देशद्रोह बगैर उचित लिहाज़ लिये प्रमाण  .
It also means `` the practice of making unfair  दोषारोपण or using अन्यायपूर्ण investigative तकनीकों , विशेषकर in अनुक्रम to सीमित  dissent or political criticism . ''
The term has its origins in the period in the  संयुक्त राज्य ज्ञात as the दूसरी रेड scare , स्थायी roughly इससे 1950 to 1956 और characterized by  heightened fears of communist influence on American institutions and espionage by Soviet agents .
Originally coined to criticize the anti-communist pursuits of Republican U.S . Senator Joseph  मैकार्थी of विस्कॉन्सिन , `` mccarthyism '' जल्द took on a broader अर्थ , describing the excesses of समान प्रयत्न  .
The term is also now used more generally to describe reckless , unsubstantiated  आरोपों , as खूब as demagogic हमले on the अक्षर or राष्ट्रभक्ति  of political adversaries .
During the McCarthy era , thousands of Americans were accused of being Communists  or कम्युनिस्ट sympathizers और became the विषय of आक्रामक investigations और questioning पहले सरकारी or  private-industry panels , committees and agencies .
The primary targets of such suspicions were government employees , those in the  entertainment उद्योग , शिक्षक और संघ कार्यकर्ताओं .
Suspicions were often given credence despite inconclusive or questionable evidence , and the level of threat posed by a person  's रियल or supposed वामपंथी एसोसिएशन or मान्यताओं थी प्रायः greatly  exaggerated .
Many people suffered loss of employment and/or destruction of their  करियर ; कुछ भी suffered कारावास  .
Most of these punishments came about through trial  verdicts बाद विकल , कानून कि होता be घोषित असंवैधानिक  , dismissals for reasons later declared illegal or actionable , or extra-legal procedures that would come into general disrepute .
The most famous examples of McCarthyism include the speeches , investigations , and hearings of Senator McCarthy himself ; the Hollywood blacklist , associated with hearings  conducted by the हाउस un-american क्रियाएँ कमेटी ( huac ) ; और the विभिन्न anti-communist क्रियाएँ of the संघीय ब्यूरो of छानबीन ( एफबीआई ) अंतर्गत निदेशक J. एडगर हूवर  .
McCarthyism was a widespread social and  सांस्कृतिक घटना कि प्रभावित सब स्तर of समाज और थी the सोर्स of  a great deal of debate and conflict in the United States .
Napoleon is a fictional character and the  प्रमुख विपक्षी in जार्ज ऑरवेल 's एनिमल  Farm .
While he is at first a  आम फार्म सुअर , he gets rid of स्नोबॉल , another  pig which shares the power .
He then  takes लाभ of the पशु ' uprising  against their masters to eventually become the tyrannical `` President of Animal Farm , '' which he turns into a dictatorship .
वरुण लोगो
The NEPTUNE Canada project is the  world’s पहला regional-scale भाटे समंदर वेधशाला कि  plugs directly into the Internet .
Since December 2009 , it has allowed people to `` surf '' the  seafloor जबकि समंदर वैज्ञानिकों चलाएं deep-water प्रयोग इससे लैब्स और विश्वविद्यालयों  around the world .
Along with its  सिस्टर प्रोजेक्ट , शुक्र , वरुण offers  a unique approach to ocean science .
Traditionally , ocean scientists have relied on infrequent ship cruises or space-based satellites to carry out their research ,  जबकि the वरुण प्रोजेक्ट उपयोग a remotely संचालित क्रॉलर  .
The Coronet was a full-size car from Dodge in the 1950s , initially the division 's highest trim  लकीर लकिन , starting in 1955 , the न्यूनतम trim  line .
In the 1960s , the name was  transferred to चकमा 's mid-size  entry .
ARM9 is an ARM  वास्तुकला 32-bit risc cpu परिवार  .
Commonwealth is a traditional  अंग्रेज़ी पद लिये a राजनैतिक जातियाँ  founded for the common good .
historically , it रै sometimes महरूम synonymous  with `` republic `` .
More recently it has been  प्रयुक्त लिये fraternal एसोसिएशन  of some sovereign nations .
Most notably , the Commonwealth of Nations , an  संघ primarily of पूर्व सदस्यों of the अंग्रेजों साम्राज्य , is प्रायः referred  to as simply `` the Commonwealth '' .
The September 11 attacks ( also referred to as  सितंबर 11 , सितंबर 11th , or 9/11 ) यहूद a श्रेणी of चार समन्वित आतंकवादी हमले शुभारम्भ by the  Islamic terrorist group al-Qaeda upon the United States in New York City and the Washington , D.C. area on September 11 , 2001 .
Four passenger airliners were hijacked  by 19 al-qaeda आतंकवादी so वे could be flown into  buildings in suicide attacks .
Two of those planes ,  अमरीकी एयरलाइंस उड़ान 11 और संयुक्त एयरलाइंस उड़ान 175 , यहूद क्रैश into the उत्तर  and South towers , respectively , of the World Trade Center complex in New York City .
Within two hours , both towers collapsed with debris and the resulting fires causing partial or  पूरा पतन of सब अन्य इमारतें in the wtc जटिल , as खूब as प्रमुख क्षति  to ten other large surrounding structures .
A third plane , American Airlines Flight 77 , was crashed into the Pentagon ( the  मुख्यालय of the संयुक्त राज्य विभाग of रक्षा )  , leading to a partial collapse in its western side .
The fourth plane , United  एयरलाइंस उड़ान 93 , थी targeted at the संयुक्त राज्य कैपिटल in वॉशिंगटन , d.C.  , but crashed into a field near Shanksville , Pennsylvania , after its passengers tried to overcome the hijackers .
in कुल , लगभग 3,000 लोगों died in the हमले  , including the 227 civilians and 19 hijackers aboard the four planes .
suspicion जल्दी गिरी  on al-Qaeda .
Although the  समूह 's नेता , ओसामा बिन लादेन , initially अस्वीकृत  any involvement , in 2004 he claimed responsibility for the attacks .
Al-Qaeda and bin  लादेन cited u.S. support of इसराईल , the उपस्थिति of u.S. सैनिकों in सऊदी अरब , और प्रतिबंधों  against Iraq as motives for the attacks .
The United States responded to the  हमले by शुभारंभ the युद्ध on आतंक और आक्रमणकारी अफगानिस्तान to depose  the Taliban , which had harbored al-Qaeda .
Many  देशों strengthened उनके anti-terrorism विधान  and expanded law enforcement powers .
Having evaded  कैप्चर लिये सालो , बिन लादेन थी स्तिथ और मारे by u.S. शक्तियां  in May 2011 .
The destruction of the Twin Towers and other  गुण caused गंभीर क्षति to the अर्थव्यवस्था of निम्नतर मैनहटन और  had a significant effect on global markets .
Cleanup of the World Trade Center site was  समाप्त in may 2002 , और the प्रस्तुतीकरण थी repaired  within a year .
Numerous memorials have been constructed , including the  नेशनल सितंबर 11 मेमोरियल & संग्रहालय in नई यॉर्क , the प्रस्तुतीकरण मेमोरियल , और the उड़ान 93 नेशनल मेमोरियल in पेन्सिलवेनिया  .
After a lengthy  विलंब , the एक संसार व्यापार बीच is अपेक्षित to be समाप्त  at Ground Zero in New York City in 2013 .
Crater Lake National Park is a United  राज्य नेशनल पार्क स्तिथ  in southern Oregon .
Established in 1902 , Crater Lake National Park is the fifth oldest national park in the  संयुक्त राज्य और the तभी एक in the राज्य of ऑरेगॉन .
The park encompasses the  caldera of crater झील , a remnant of a नष्ट ज्वालामुखी , माउंट  Mazama , and the surrounding hills and forests .
The lake is deep at its deepest point , which makes it the deepest lake in the United States , the second  deepest in उत्तर अमेरिका और the नवीं deepest in the संसार .
Crater Lake is often referred to as the seventh deepest lake in the world , but this former listing excludes the approximately depth of subglacial Lake Vostok in  अंटार्कटिक , जिससे resides अंतर्गत nearly of बर्फ , और the हाल रपट of a अधिकतम गहराई लिये झील o'higgins /san मार्टिन , स्तिथ on the किनारा of चिली और अर्जेंटीना  .
However , when comparing its average depth of to the average depth of other deep lakes , Crater Lake becomes  the deepest in the पश्चिमी गोलार्ध और the तीसरा  deepest in the world .
The impressive average depth of this volcanic lake is due to the nearly symmetrical deep  caldera formed 7,700 सालो पहले दौरान the हिंसक climactic eruptions और subsequent पतन of माउंट mazama और the  relatively moist climate that is typical of the crest of the Cascade Range .
the caldera रिम सीमाएँ  in elevation from .
The United States Geological  सर्वेक्षण benchmarked उन्नयन of the झील सतह  itself is .
This  नेशनल पार्क encompasses  .
crater झील रै no स्ट्रीम बहती  into or out of it .
All water  कि enters the झील is आखिरकार खोया इससे वाष्पीकरण  or subsurface seepage .
the झील 's जल commonly रै a  striking blue hue , and the lake is re-filled entirely from direct precipitation in the form of snow and rain .
The Supreme Court of the  संयुक्त राज्य is the उच्चतम अदालत in  the United States .
It has ultimate ( and largely discretionary ) appellate  क्षेत्राधिकार over सब संघीय न्यायालयों और over राज्य अदालत मामले involving  issues of federal law , and original jurisdiction over a small range of cases .
The Court , which meets in the United States Supreme Court Building in Washington , D.C. , consists of  a मुख्य इंसाफ और आठ संबद्ध justices जो हैं मनोनीत by the अध्यक्ष और पुष्टि by  the United States Senate .
Once appointed , justices have life tenure unless  वे इस्तीफा , रिटायर , or हैं removed बाद  impeachment .
Conroe is the seat of  मोंटगोमरी काउंटी और जलप्रपात  within the metropolitan area .
It is  स्तिथ परिचय उत्तर  of Houston .
As of July 2011 , the  नगर जनसांख्यिकी थी 58,973 , up  from 36,811 in 2000 .
The Book of Mormon is a sacred text of the Latter  दिन संत गति , जिससे adherents मानना contains कृतियाँ of प्राचीन नबियों जो जिया on the अमरीकी महाद्वीप  from approximately 2200 BC to AD 421 .
it थी पहला प्रकाशित in कूच 1830 by जोसेफ स्मिथ as the किताब of mormon : an खाता  Written by the Hand of Mormon upon Plates Taken from the Plates of Nephi .
According to Smith 's account , and also  according to the किताब 's कथा , the किताब of mormon थी originally लिखा in वरना अनजान वर्ण referred to as `` reformed  Egyptian `` engraved on golden plates .
Smith claimed that the last prophet to contribute to the book , a man named Moroni , buried it in a hill in present-day New York and then returned to earth in 1827 as an angel , revealing the  स्थान of the किताब to स्मिथ और instructing उसे to अनुवाद और disseminate it as प्रमाण of the बहाली of मसीह  's true church in the latter days .
The Book of Mormon has a number of original and distinctive doctrinal discussions on subjects such as the fall of Adam and  संध्या , the प्रकृति of the प्रायश्चित , eschatology , मोचन इससे शारीरिक और आध्यात्मिक मौत  , and the organization of the latter-day church .
The pivotal  इवेंट of the किताब is an रूप of यीशु  Christ to the Americas shortly after his resurrection .
The Book of  mormon is the earliest of the अद्वितीय कृतियाँ of the latter दिन संत गति , the denominations of जिससे typically  regard the text not only as scripture but also as a historical record of God 's dealings with the ancient inhabitants of the Americas .
The Book of Mormon is divided into smaller books , titled after the  individuals नामित as प्राथमिक लेखक और , in सबसे संस्करण , विभाजित into अध्याय  and verses .
It is written in English , very  समान to the जल्दी आधुनिक अंग्रेज़ी  linguistic style of the King James Version of the Bible , and has since been fully or partially translated into 108 languages .
An enlisted rank ( also known as an enlisted grade or  आयोजिक रेट ) is , in सबसे militaries , कोई रैंक नीचे कि of a commissioned अधिकारी or वारंट  officer .
The term can also be  समावेशी of non-commissioned अधिकारियों  .
In most cases , enlisted service personnel perform jobs specific to  उनके अपना occupational specialty , as opposed to the अधिक generalized कमांड जिम्मेदारियों of commissioned  officers .
`` What a Wonderful World '' is a song written by  bob thiele ( as `` जार्ज डगलस '' ) और जार्ज  David Weiss .
It was first recorded by Louis  आर्मस्ट्रांग और released as a सिंगल  in 1967 .
Thiele and Weiss were both  prominent in the म्यूज़िक संसार ( thiele as a निर्माता  and Weiss as a composer/performer ) .
Armstrong 's recording was  inducted in the ग्रैमी हॉल  of Fame in 1999 .
The publishing for this song is controlled by Memory Lane Music Group ,  कार्लिन म्यूज़िक corp. , और कीड़ा म्यूज़िक , inc  .
1908 poster  विज्ञापन gaumont 's ध्वनि films  .
The  chronomégaphone , designed लिये विशाल हॉल  , employed compressed air to amplify the recorded sound .
A sound film is  a गति चित्र साथ synchronized ध्वनि  , or sound technologically coupled to image , as opposed to a silent film .
The first known public exhibition of  प्रक्षिप्त ध्वनि films took प्लेस in पेरिस in 1900 , लकिन दशकों होता pass पहले  sound motion pictures were made commercially practical .
Reliable synchronization was  मुश्किल to achieve साथ the जल्दी sound-on-disc प्रणालियों , और  amplification and recording quality were also inadequate .
नवप्रवर्तनों in sound-on-film led to the पहला वाणिज्यिक स्क्रीनिंग  of short motion pictures using the technology , which took place in 1923 .
The primary steps in the commercialization of sound  सिनेमा यहूद लिया in the mid- to लेट  1920s .
At first , the sound films incorporating synchronized dialogue—known as `` talking  तस्वीरें '' , or `` टॉकीज़ '' —were exclusively शॉर्ट्स ; the earliest feature-length फिल्मों साथ अंकित  sound included only music and effects .
The first feature film originally  प्रस्तुत as a talkie थी the जैज़ सिंगर  , released in October 1927 .
A major hit , it was  बना साथ vitaphone , the अग्रणी  brand of sound-on-disc technology .
sound-on-film , however , होता जल्द become  the standard for talking pictures .
By the early 1930s , the  टॉकीज़ यहूद a वैश्विक  phenomenon .
In the United States ,  वे helped सुरक्षित हॉलीवुड 's स्थिति as एक of the संसार 's सबसे शक्तिशाली cultural/commercial  systems ( see Cinema of the United States ) .
In  यूरोपीय ( और , to a lesser उपाधि , elsewhere ) the नई विकास थी treated साथ  suspicion by many filmmakers and critics , who worried that a focus on dialogue would subvert the unique aesthetic virtues of soundless cinema .
In Japan ,  जहाँ the लोकप्रिय फिल्मी परंपरा एकीकृत  silent movie and live vocal performance , talking pictures were slow to take root .
In India , sound was the transformative element that  led to the रैपिड विस्तार of the स्वदेश 's फिल्मी industry—the सबसे उत्पादक ऐसे  industry in the world since the early 1960s .
African people are natives or  निवासियों of अफ़्रीकी और लोगों of अफ़्रीकी descent  .
The  ऑस्ट्रेलियाई रिकॉर्डिंग उद्योग संघ म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार ( commonly ज्ञात as aria म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार or aria पुरस्कार ) is an सालाना श्रेणी of पुरस्कार नाइट्स celebrating the  Australian music industry , put on by the Australian Recording Industry Association ( ARIA ) .
The event has been held annually since 1987 and encompasses the general genre-specific and popular awards ( these are what is usually being referred to as `` the ARIA awards '' ) as well as Fine Arts Awards  और कारीगर पुरस्कार ( आयोजित separately इससे 2004 ) , आजीवन उपलब्धि पुरस्कार और aria हॉल of कीर्ति – आयोजित separately इससे 2005 to 2010 लकिन लौटे to the सामान्य रस्म in 2011  .
For 2010  , aria introduced पब्लिक  voted awards for the first time .
Winning , or even being nominated for , an ARIA award results in a lot of media attention on an  कलाकार , और प्रायः increases रिकॉर्डिंग बिक्री several-fold – in 2005 , लिये उदाहरण , बाद बेन ली जीती तीन पुरस्कार  , his album Awake Is the New Sleep jumped from No . 31 to No . 5 in the ARIA Charts , its highest position .
For-profit education ( also  ज्ञात as the शिक्षा सेवाएं उद्योग or मालिकाना शिक्षा ) refers to शैक्षणिक संस्थानों  operated by private , profit -seeking businesses .
There are  तीन प्रकार of for-profit स्कूलों  .
One  प्रकार is ज्ञात as an शैक्षणिक प्रबन्धन संगठन  ( EMO ) , and these are primary and secondary educational institutions .
EMOs work with  स्कूल जिले or चार्टर स्कूलों , using पब्लिक निधि  to finance operations .
The  बहुमत of for-profit स्कूलों in the k–12 सेक्टर in अमेरिका फलन  as EMOs , and have grown in number in the mid-2000s .
The other major category  of for-profit स्कूलों हैं post-secondary संस्थानों जिससे operate as व्यवसायों  , receiving fees from each student they enroll .
A third type of for-profit schools , which is less  प्रचलित in the संयुक्त राज्य , हैं k–12 स्कूलों जिससे operate as  businesses .
emos फलन differently इससे चार्टर स्कूलों निर्मित in अनुक्रम to carry आउट a particular शिक्षण  pedagogy ; most charter schools are mission-oriented , while EMOs and other for-profit institutions are market-oriented .
While  समर्थक argue कि the लाभ motive encourages दक्षता  , this arrangement has also drawn controversy and criticism .
Kevin Carey , director of the education  नीति कार्यक्रम of the नई अमरीकी न्यास कहा in a 2010 कालम in the वृत्तान्त of उच्चतर शिक्षा कि `` for-profits मौजूद in  large part to fix educational market failures left by traditional institutions , and they profit by serving students that public and private nonprofit institutions too often ignore . ''
He also noted that `` There 's  no शक कि the worst for-profits हैं निर्मम exploiting the commodified  college degree .
लकिन वे किया n't commodify  it in the first place . ''
Amendment  xxii in the नेशनल  Archives
The Twenty-second Amendment of the United States  संविधान सेट a पद सीमा लिये चुनाव to the  office of President of the United States .
Congress passed  the amendment on कूच 21 ,  1947 .
It was ratified by the  आवश्यक क्रमांक of राज्य  on February 27 , 1951 .
This is an episode guide for  the दुश्मनी श्रेणी bobobo-bo  Bo-bobo .
This list encompasses every episode , beginning with the original Japanese-language title as they aired on TV Asahi ,  followed by the शीर्षक प्रयुक्त in the अंग्रेज़ी उतावले संस्करण airing in the संयुक्त राज्य on कार्टून  Network .
A short summary will follow , introducing the episode  और referring to कुछ of the ढकोसला , लकिन नहीं giving the पूरा summaries to  the episodes .
All names and some of the references will be  the ones प्रयुक्त इससे the english-language  version to avoid confusion .
जापानी names may be प्रस्तुत बाद  the dub name in parentheses .
This article is about the  पब्लिक पार्क in नई यॉर्क नगर  .
For other uses ,  देखिए सेंट्रल पार्क ( बहुविकल्पी  ) .
Central Park is a public park  at the बीच of मैनहटन in नई  York City .
The park initially opened  in 1857 , on of city-owned  land ( it is 843 acres today ) .
In  1858 , फ्रेडरिक विधि olmsted और calvert vaux जीती a डिज़ाइन प्रतियोगिता to improve  and expand the park with a plan they entitled the Greensward Plan .
Construction began the same  साल , जारी दौरान the अमरीकी सिविल  War , and was completed in 1873 .
Central Park is the most  visited शहरी पार्क in the  United States .
Designated a National Historic Landmark in 1962 , the park is currently  प्रबंधित by the सेंट्रल पार्क conservancy अंतर्गत अनुबंध साथ the नगर  government .
The  conservancy is a non-profit संगठन कि contributes 83.5 % of सेंट्रल  Park 's $ 37.5 million annual budget , and employs 80.7 % of the park 's maintenance staff .
TracFone Wireless , Inc. is a prepaid wireless  सेवा प्रदाता ऑपरेटिंग in the संयुक्त राज्य सहित प्यूर्टो रीको और the  US Virgin Islands and is a subsidiary of Mexico 's largest telecommunications provider , América Móvil .
as a मोबाईल आभासी संजाल ऑपरेटर ( mvno ) , tracfone बेतार holds अनेक समझौतों साथ the us largest  wireless telecommunications companies to utilize their networks to provide service including those of Verizon , AT & T , Sprint , and T-Mobile .
TracFone Wireless offers its wireless products under multiple brands which each also offer distinctive service  योजनाएँ , the ब्रांड्स शामिल tracfone , net10 बेतार , सीधा बात , safelink बेतार , telcel américa और  Simple Mobile .
A  पकड़ें  dredge
Dredging is an excavation  कार्यकलाप or आपरेशन प्रायः carried आउट at तनिक partly भाटे , in उथले समंदर or भैस जल क्षेत्रों साथ the purpose  of gathering up bottom sediments and disposing of them at a different location .
इस तकनीक is प्रायः  used to keep waterways navigable .
It is also used as a way to replenish sand on some  पब्लिक समुद्रतट , जहाँ बालू रै महरूम खोया क्युकी of  coastal erosion .
Dredging is also used as a technique for fishing for certain species of edible  क्लेम और केकड़े , देखिए  fishing dredge .
A  dredger ( or “dredge” as is the सामान्य उपयोग in the americas ) is  any device , machine , or vessel that is used to excavate and remove material from the bottom of a body of water .
For  उदाहरण , a स्कूप संलग्न to the समाप्त of a रस्सी or ध्रुव by जिससे  a man can draw sediments up from the bottom of a pond is a dredger .
Developing this idea further , a motorized crane equipped with a drag bucket or clamshell ( grabber ) that is used to  स्कूप सामग्री इससे the नीचे of a देह of जल is भी  a dredger .
The crane could be located on the  बैंको , or शायद आरोहित on  a barge .
If the crane is mounted on a barge , the entire vessel is  referred to as a dredger .
The process of dredging creates spoils ( excess  सामग्री ) , जिससे हैं carried दूर इससे the dredged  area .
Dredging can produce materials for land  reclamation or अन्य उद्देश्य ( प्रायः construction-related ) , और रै  also historically played a significant role in gold mining .
Dredging can create  disturbance in जलीय ecosystems , प्रायः साथ प्रतिकूल  impacts .
क्लीवलैंड ज्वालामुखी in the aleutian आइलैंड्स of अलास्का photographed इससे the  International Space Station , May 2006 .
Ash plumes reached a  ऊँचाई of 19 km दौरान the climactic फटना  at Mount Pinatubo , Philippines in 1991 .
A volcano is an opening , or rupture , in a planet 's surface or crust ,  जिससे allows hot मैग्मा , volcanic राख और गैसों to एस्केप इससे the मैग्मा कक्ष नीचे the  surface .
Volcanoes are generally  मिला जहाँ tectonic प्लेटों  are diverging or converging .
A mid-oceanic ridge , for example the  mid-atlantic लकीरें , रै उदाहरण of ज्वालामुखी caused by अपसारी tectonic प्लेटों pulling अलावा ; the प्रशांत रिंग of आग रै उदाहरण of ज्वालामुखी  caused by convergent tectonic plates coming together .
By contrast , volcanoes  हैं प्रायः नहीं निर्मित जहाँ दो tectonic प्लेटों स्लाइड  past one another .
Volcanoes can also form where  वहीँ is stretching और thinning of the धरती 's क्रस्ट in the इंटीरियर्स of प्लेटों , e.g. , in the ईस्ट अफ़्रीकी  Rift , the Wells Gray-Clearwater volcanic field and the Rio Grande Rift in North America .
This type of volcanism  जलप्रपात अंतर्गत the छतरियाँ of `` थाली परिकल्पना  '' volcanism .
Volcanism away  इससे थाली सीमाएँ रै भी महरूम समझाया  as mantle plumes .
These so-called `` hotspots `` , for example Hawaii , are  postulated to उठता इससे upwelling diapirs साथ मैग्मा इससे the core–mantle  boundary , 3,000 km deep in the Earth .
Erupting  ज्वालामुखी can पोज़ अनेक  hazards , not only in the immediate vicinity of the eruption .
Volcanic ash can be a threat to aircraft , in particular those with jet engines  जहाँ राख अणु can be melted by the ऊँची ऑपरेटिंग तापमान  .
Large eruptions can affect temperature as ash and droplets of sulfuric acid  अस्पष्ट the सूर्य और कूल the धरती 's निम्नतर माहौल or क्षोभमण्डल ; however ,  they also absorb heat radiated up from the Earth , thereby warming the stratosphere .
Historically ,  so-called volcanic सर्दियों have caused  catastrophic famines .
Benedict Arnold  ( जून 14 , 1801 ) थी a सामान्य दौरान the अमरीकी क्रांतिकारी युद्ध जो originally  fought for the American Continental Army but defected to the British Army .
While a general on the American side , he obtained command of  the फोर्ट at वेस्ट पाइंट , नई यॉर्क , और नियोजित to आत्मसमर्पण it to the  British forces .
After the plan was exposed in  सितंबर 1780 , he थी commissioned into the अंग्रेजों फौज  as a brigadier general .
Born in Connecticut , Arnold  थी a व्यापारी ऑपरेटिंग जहाजों on the अटलांटिक समंदर  when the war broke out in 1775 .
बाद joining the growing फौज बाहर बोस्टन , he विशिष्ट  himself through acts of intelligence and bravery .
His actions included  the कैप्चर of फोर्ट ticonderoga in 1775 , रक्षात्मक और delaying tactics despite खोने the बैटल  of Valcour Island on Lake Champlain in 1776 , the Battle of Ridgefield , Connecticut ( after which he was promoted to major general ) , operations in relief of the Siege of Fort Stanwix , and key actions during the pivotal Battles of Saratoga in 1777 , in which he suffered leg injuries that ended his combat career for several years .
Despite Arnold 's successes , he was passed over for promotion by the Continental  कॉंग्रेस जबकि अन्य अधिकारियों claimed क्रेडिट लिये कुछ of उसके accomplishments  .
Adversaries in military and political circles brought charges of corruption or other  malfeasance , लकिन सबसे प्रायः he थी acquitted in औपचारिक पूछताछ  .
Congress investigated his accounts  और मिला he थी ऋणी to कॉंग्रेस बाद बिता  much of his own money on the war effort .
Frustrated and bitter , Arnold decided to change sides in 1779 ,  और खोली रहस्य negotiations साथ  the British .
In July 1780 , he was offered , continued to  pursue और थी awarded  command of West Point .
Arnold 's scheme to  आत्मसमर्पण the फोर्ट to the अंग्रेजों थी उजागर जब अमरीकी शक्तियां  captured British Major John André carrying papers that revealed the plot .
Upon learning of André 's capture , Arnold fled down the Hudson River to the  अंग्रेजों sloop-of-war गिद्ध , narrowly बचने कैप्चर by  the forces of George Washington , who had been alerted to the plot .
Arnold  प्राप्त a आयोग as a ब्रिगेडियर सामान्य in the अंग्रेजों  Army , an annual pension of £360 , and a lump sum of over £6,000 .
He led  अंग्रेजों शक्तियां on छापे in वर्जिनिया , और विरूद्ध नई लंदन और groton , कनेक्टिकट , पहले  the war effectively ended with the American victory at Yorktown .
In the winter of 1782 , Arnold moved to London  साथ उसके दूसरी बीवी , मार्गरेट `` पैगी '' shippen  Arnold .
He was well  प्राप्त by किंग जार्ज iii और the  Tories but frowned upon by the Whigs .
In 1787 , he returned to the merchant business with his sons  रिचर्ड और हेनरी in संत जॉन , नई ब्रंसविक  .
He returned to  लंदन to settle permanently in 1791  , where he died ten years later .
Because of the way he changed  पहलू , उसके नाम जल्दी became a in the संयुक्त  States for treason or betrayal .
His conflicting legacy is recalled in the  अस्पष्ट प्रकृति of कुछ of the memorials  that have been placed in his honor .
Curtis Montague Schilling ( born November 14  , 1966 ) is a पूर्व अमरीकी प्रमुख लीग बेसबॉल right-handed  pitcher and Video Game developer .
He helped lead the Philadelphia Phillies to the World Series in  और जीती संसार श्रेणी championships in साथ the एरिज़ोना डाइमन्डबैक्स और in और साथ  the Boston Red Sox .
schilling रिटायर्ड साथ a करियर  postseason record of 11–2 .
His .846 postseason winning  प्रतिशत is a major-league रिकार्ड among pitchers  with at least 10 decisions .
After  retiring , he संस्थापित ग्रीन दानव खेल  which was renamed 38 Studios .
The company released Kingdoms of Amalur : Reckoning in February 2012 , but just three months later  , schilling रखी बंद उसके संपूर्ण स्टाफ amid कठोर वित्तीय परेशानियों कि resulted in the कम्पनी लापता payroll the पिछला  week .
Star Wars  is an अमरीकी एपिक स्पेस ओपेरा मताधिकार  centered on a film series created by George Lucas .
The film  श्रेणी रै शाखित a मीडिया मताधिकार बाहर the फिल्मी श्रेणी  called the Expanded Universe including books , television series , computer and video games , and comic books .
These  पूरक to the फिल्मी trilogies have resulted in significant विकास  of the series ' fictional universe .
These media kept the  मताधिकार क्रियाशील in the अंतरिम between the फिल्मी trilogies  .
The  मताधिकार portrays a आकाशगंगा  that is described as far , far away in the distant past .
It commonly portrays Jedi as a  प्रतिनिधित्व of शुभ , in विरोध साथ the सिथ  , their evil counterpart .
Their  हथियार of चुनाव , the  lightsaber , is commonly recognized in popular culture .
The fictional universe also  contains अनेक विषयवस्तु , विशेषकर प्रभाव of दर्शनशास्त्र  and religion .
The first film in the series was originally released on May 25 , 1977 , under the title Star Wars , by 20th Century  फॉक्स , और became a विश्वव्यापी पॉप संस्कृति घटना , followed by दो  sequels , released at three-year intervals .
Sixteen years after the release of the trilogy  's फाइनल फिल्मी , the पहला in a नई प्रीक्वेल त्रयी of films थी released  .
The three  प्रीक्वेल films यहूद भी released at three-year intervals , साथ  the final film of the trilogy released on May 19 , 2005 .
In October 2012 , The Walt Disney Company acquired Lucasfilm for $ 4.05 billion and announced that  it होता उपज तीन नई films , साथ the पहला फिल्मी , स्टार युद्धों एपीसोड  VII , planned for release in 2015 .
20th Century Fox still retains the distribution rights to the first two Star Wars trilogies , owning permanent rights for the  असली फिल्मी एपीसोड iv : a नई आशा , जबकि पकड़कर the अधिकारों to एपीसोड i–iii , v और  VI until May 2020 .
Reactions to the original trilogy were mostly positive , with the last film being considered the weakest , while the  प्रीक्वेल त्रयी प्राप्त a अधिक मिश्रित प्रतिक्रिया , साथ सबसे of the तारीफ़ होने लिये the फाइनल फिल्म , according to सबसे  review aggregator websites .
All six of the main films in the series were also  मनोनीत लिये or जीती अकादमी  Awards .
All of the main films have been box office successes , with  the overall बक्सा दफ्तर आय उत्पन्न by the स्टार युद्धों films ( सहित the नाट्य स्टार युद्धों : the क्लोन युद्धों  ) totalling $ 4.49 billion , making it the third-highest-grossing film series .
The success has also led to  अनेक re-releases in थिएटर लिये  the series .
Plateletpheresis ( more accurately called thrombocytapheresis or thrombapheresis , though these names are rarely used ) is  the प्रक्रम of collecting thrombocytes , अधिक commonly पुकारा प्लेटलेट्स  , a component of blood involved in blood clotting .
The term specifically refers to the method of collecting the platelets  , जिससे is performed by a यंत्र प्रयुक्त in रक्त दान कि separates the प्लेटलेट्स  and returns other portions of the blood to the donor .
Platelet transfusion can be a life-saving procedure in  preventing or treating गंभीर जटिलताओं इससे bleeding और hemorrhage in मरीजों जो have विकार manifesting  as thrombocytopenia ( low platelet count ) or platelet dysfunction .
This process may also be used therapeutically to treat  विकार resulting in extraordinarily ऊँची platelet रिश्तो ऐसे  as essential thrombocytosis .
In computer networking , a port is an application-specific or  process-specific तन्त्र construct सेवारत as a संचार endpoint in a कंप्यूटर 's मेजबान ऑपरेटिंग  system .
A  बंदरगाहों is संबद्ध साथ an ip पता  of the host , as well as the type of protocol used for communication .
The purpose of ports is to uniquely identify different applications or processes running on a single computer and thereby enable  उन्हें to share a सिंगल शारीरिक कनेक्शन to a packet-switched संजाल जैसे the अंतरजाल  .
The protocols that primarily use ports are the Transport Layer protocols , such  as the हस्तांतरण कंट्रोल प्रोटोकॉल ( टीसीपी ) और the उपयोक्ता datagram प्रोटोकॉल ( यूडीपी  ) of the Internet Protocol Suite .
A port is identified for each address and  प्रोटोकॉल by a 16-bit क्रमांक , commonly  known as the port number .
The port number , added to a  कंप्यूटर 's ip पता , completes the गंतव्य  address for a communications session .
That is , data packets are routed across the network to a  विशिष्ट गंतव्य ip पता , और तब , upon reaching the गंतव्य कंप्यूटर , हैं further  routed to the specific process bound to the destination port number .
Note  कि it is the संयोजन of ip पता और बंदरगाहों क्रमांक साथ  that must be globally unique .
Thus ,  अलग ip पता or प्रोटोकॉल may उपयोग the वही बंदरगाहों क्रमांक लिये संचार ; e.g. , on a दिए मेजबान or  interface UDP and TCP may use the same port number , or on a host with two interfaces , both addresses may be associated with a port having the same number .
Of the  हज़ारों of enumerated पोर्ट , परिचय 250 well-known पोर्ट हैं सुरक्षित by सम्मेलन  to identify specific service types on a host .
In the client-server model of application architecture , ports are used to provide a multiplexing service on each server-side port number that network  क्लाइंट कनेक्ट to लिये सेवा दीक्षा , बाद जिससे संचार can be reestablished on अन्य connection-specific बंदरगाहों संख्याएँ  .
Area code 479 is the telephone area code serving thirteen counties in  उत्तरपश्चिम अरकंसास , सहित the शहरों of फोर्ट स्मिथ , fayetteville , springdale , रोजर्स और bentonville : the दूसरी , तीसरा , चौथी , आठवीं और tenth-largest  cities in the state , respectively .
It was created in 2002 in a split  इससे क्षेत्रफल कोड  501 .
Area code 479 serves Benton , Carroll ( split with area code 870 ) , Crawford , Franklin , Johnson , Logan , Madison , Polk ,  पोप , स्कॉट , सेबेस्टियन , वॉशिंगटन और चिल्लाते काउंटी  in Arkansas .
Arraignment is a formal reading of a criminal  चार्जिंग दस्तावेज़ in the उपस्थिति of the प्रतिवादी to inform the प्रतिवादी of the  charges against him or her .
In response to arraignment , the accused  is अपेक्षित to डालें  a plea .
Acceptable pleas vary among  jurisdictions , लकिन वे generally शामिल `` अपराधी '' , `` नहीं अपराधी ''  , and the peremptory pleas ( or pleas in bar ) setting out reasons why a trial can not proceed .
Pleas of ``  nolo contendere `` ( no प्रतियोगिता ) और the `` alford दलील ``  are allowed in some circumstances .
In England , Wales , Northern Ireland and Australia , arraignment is the first of eleven  चरण in a दण्ड विचारण , और involves the क्लर्क of the अदालत पढना  out the indictment .
The defendant is asked whether  he or वो pleads अपराधी  or not guilty to each charge .
In federal courts  of the संयुक्त राज्य ,  arraignment takes place in two stages .
The first is called the initial arraignment and must take  प्लेस भीतर 48 घंटों of an व्यक्तिगत 's गिरफ़्तार , 72 घंटों if the व्यक्तिगत थी गिरफ्तार  on the weekend and not able to go before a judge until Monday .
During this  arraignment the प्रतिवादी is सूचित of the स्थगित विधिक आरोप  and is informed of his or her right to retain counsel .
the पीठासीन न्यायधीश भी decides at कया राशि  , if any , to set bail .
दौरान the दूसरी arraignment , a post-indictment arraignment or pia  , the defendant is allowed to enter a plea .
Geoffrey Chaucer ( ; c. 1343 – 25 October 1400 ) , known as the Father of English literature , is  widely माना the महानतम अंग्रेज़ी कवि of the मध्य आयु और थी the पहला कवि to have महरूम दफ्न in कवि 's कोने of वेस्टमिंस्टर ऐबी  .
While he  हासिल कीर्ति दौरान उसके आजीवन as an लेखक , पारस , कीमियागर और astronomer , composing a वैज्ञानिक treatise on  the astrolabe for his ten year-old son Lewis , Chaucer also maintained an active career in the civil service as a bureaucrat , courtier and diplomat .
Among his many works , which include The Book of the Duchess , the House of Fame , the Legend of Good  महिलाओं और troilus और criseyde , he is बेहतरीन ज्ञात  today for The Canterbury Tales .
Chaucer is a crucial figure in developing the legitimacy  of the देशी , मध्य अंग्रेज़ी , at a समय जब the प्रबल साहित्यिक भाषाएं in इंग्लैण्ड यहूद फ्रेंच  and Latin .
The Chicago  blizzard of 1979 थी a प्रमुख blizzard कि प्रभावित उत्तरी  Illinois and northwest Indiana , U.S. on January 13 – January 14 , 1979 .
of snow fell on January 13 alone , setting  a नई रिकार्ड लिये हिम in एक पंचांग  day .
By the end  of जनवरी 14 , of  snow had fallen .
The cold weather and  हिमपात throughout the बाकी of जनवरी  and February resulted in frozen tracks throughout the Chicago 'L ' system .
Commuters crowded onto CTA buses , quickly  overwhelming क्षमता , resulting in usual बस commutes of 30-45 मिनट्स लेने  up to several hours .
To avoid huge  snowdrifts in the गलियों , the overcrowded बसें यहूद obliged  to take numerous detours , adding additional time to the commute .
Deployment of plows was significantly delayed and when they finally appeared  वे struggled to रखना up साथ the हिमपात  .
Much of the snow  remained unremoved throughout the अगला 2 महीने , causing जारी पब्लिक  transit delays and significant problems with trash collection .
The  नगर 's अपर्याप्त जवाब to the blizzard थी blamed primarily  on mayor Michael Bilandic , who had assumed the post after the 1976 death of Richard J. Daley .
Newspaper articles at the time blasted Bilandic ; Jane Byrne , Bilandic 's main political rival in the Democratic  प्राथमिक ( जो था previously worked साथ bilandic in the डाले प्रशासन और महरूम fired by bilandic जब the दो could नहीं मिलेंगी साथ  ) , capitalized on this and went on to defeat Bilandic in the February 27 primary .
The 12-hour clock is a time convention in which the 24 hours of the day are divided  into दो अवधि : a.m. ( इससे the लैटिन ante meridiem ,  meaning `` before midday '' ) and p.m. ( post meridiem , `` after midday '' ) .
Each  काल consists of 12 घंटों गिने : 12 ( एक्टिंग  as zero ) , 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 , 8 , 9 , 10 , and 11 .
The 12-hour clock  थी विकसित over समय इससे the mid-second  millennium BC to the 16th century AD .
Health spending per capita ,  in $ us ppp-adjusted , साथ the us और कनाडा compared amongst अन्य  first world nations .
Comparison of the health care  प्रणालियों in कनाडा और the संयुक्त राज्य हैं प्रायः बना by सरकारी  , public health and public policy analysts .
The two  देशों था समान स्वास्थ्य परवाह प्रणालियों पहले  Canada reformed its system in the 1960s and 1970s .
The United States spends much more money on health care  than कनाडा , on दोनो a per-capita आधार और as a प्रतिशत of  GDP .
In 2006  , per-capita बिता लिये स्वास्थ्य  care in Canada was US $ 3,678 ; in the U.S. , US $ 6,714 .
The  u.S. खर्च 15.3 % of जीडीपी on स्वास्थ्य परवाह  in that year ; Canada spent 10.0 % .
In 2006 , 70 % of  स्वास्थ्य परवाह बिता in कनाडा थी financed  by government , versus 46 % in the United States .
Total government spending per capita in the U.S. on health care was 23 % higher  than कनाडाई सरकारी बिता , और u.S. सरकारी व्यय on स्वास्थ्य परवाह थी बस अंतर्गत 83 % of कुल कनाडाई बिता ( पब्लिक और निजी ) हालांकि ये आंकडे do  n't take into account population differences .
Studies have come to different  conclusions परिचय the परिणाम of इस disparity in बिता  .
A 2007 review of all studies comparing health outcomes in Canada and the US in a Canadian  peer-reviewed चिकित्सा जर्नल मिला कि `` स्वास्थ्य outcomes may be श्रेष्ठ in मरीजों cared लिये in कनाडा बनाम the  United States , but differences are not consistent . ''
Life expectancy is longer in Canada , and its infant  मृत्यु रेट is निम्नतर than कि of the u.S. , लकिन वहीँ is बहस  about the underlying causes of these differences .
One commonly cited comparison , the 2000 World Health Organization 's ratings of `` overall health service performance '' , which used a `` composite measure of achievement in the level of health , the  वितरण of स्वास्थ्य , the स्तर of responsiveness और निष्पक्षता of वित्तीय योगदान '' ,  ranked Canada 30th and the US 37th among 191 member nations .
This study rated the US ``  responsiveness '' , or विशेषता of सेवा लिये individuals receiving  treatment , as 1st , compared with 7th for Canada .
While the average life expectancy for Canadians was 80.34 years compared with 78.6 years for residents of the US , simply comparing the life expectancy of two groups  साथ अलग जातिगत मेकअप और अलग मोटापा दरों is संभावित नहीं an प्रभावी रास्ता of determining जिससे  healthcare system is superior .
the जो 's पढ़ाई विधि  were criticized by some analyses .
Although there is a measure of consensus that life-expectancy and infant mortality mark the most reliable ways to compare nation-wide health care , assuming the population makeup is similar , a recent report by the  congressional शोध सेवा carefully summarizes कुछ हाल आंकड़ा और टीप the `` मुश्किल शोध मुद्दे '' facing अंतरराष्ट्रीय comparisons  .
Tarantulas comprise a group of often  बालदार और बहुत विशाल arachnids belonging to the theraphosidae परिवार of मकड़ियों , of  which approximately 900 species have been identified .
This article only describes members of Theraphosidae ,  हालांकि कुछ अन्य सदस्यों of the वही suborder हैं commonly referred to as ``  tarantulas '' .
Most species of tarantulas are not  खतरनाक to इंसानो , और कुछ प्रजाति have become  popular in the exotic pet trade .
The  ton is a ईकाई of माप  .
It has a long history  और रै acquired a क्रमांक of meanings और उपयोग  over the years .
It is used principally as a  ईकाई of वज़न , और as a  unit of volume .
It can also be used as a measure of energy ,  लिये ट्रक वर्गीकरण  , or as a colloquial term .
It is derived from the tun  , the पद लागू to a बैरल of the  largest size .
This could contain  a आवाज़ between 210 और 256 गैलन ( 800 to 1000 l ) , जिससे could तौल around 2,000  pounds ( 900 kg ) and occupy some of space .
in the संयुक्त किंगडम the  ton is defined as ( avoirdupois pounds ) .
From 1965 the UK embarked upon a programme of metrication and gradually introduced  मीट्रिक इकाई , सहित the टन ( मीट्रिक ton  ) , a non-SI metric unit defined as 1000 kg .
The UK Weights and Measures  अधिनियम 1985 explicitly excluded इससे उपयोग लिये व्यापार अनेक इकाई और शर्तें , सहित the ton और the पद `` मीट्रिक  ton '' for `` tonne ''
In the  संयुक्त राज्य और formerly  Canada a ton is defined to be .
Where confusion is possible , the 2240 lb ton is called `` long ton `` and the 2000 lb ton ``  छोटी ton `` ; the टन is विशिष्ट by इसके स्पेलिंग , लकिन प्रायः सुनाया the वही as ton  , hence the US term `` metric ton '' .
In the UK the final `` e '' of `` tonne '' can also be  सुनाया ( /ˈtʌnɪ/ ) , or `` मीट्रिक ton '' जब it is जरुरी to मेक the भेद  .
जहाँ सटीकता is जरूरी the सही पद जरूर be प्रयुक्त , लकिन लिये अनेक उद्देश्य इस is नहीं जरुरी : the मीट्रिक और long टन differ by तभी 1.6 %  , and the short ton is within 11 % of both .
The ton is the  अधिकतम ईकाई of वज़न referred to in colloquial  speech .
The term `` ton '' is also used  to refer to a क्रमांक of  units of volume , ranging from in capacity .
It can also be used as a unit of energy , expressed as an  समतुल्य of कोयले जले , टीएनटी detonated , or  in refrigeration , ice melted .
In  ब्रिटेन , ton is प्रयुक्त in कठबोली in अनेक contexts  to mean `` 100 '' .
As a cost or a speed , a ton is  widely समझा to be £100 or 100  mph .
The Stanley Cup ( ) is the championship trophy awarded annually  to the नेशनल हॉकी लीग ( एनएचएल ) playoff विजेता बाद the निष्कर्ष  of the Stanley Cup Finals .
Originally  commissioned in 1892 as the डोमिनियन हॉकी चुनौती कप , the ट्रॉफी is नामित लिये रब स्टेनली of preston , then- राज्यपाल सामान्य of कनाडा , जो  awarded it to Canada 's top-ranking amateur ice hockey club , which the entire Stanley family supported , with the sons and daughters playing and promoting the game .
The first  कप थी awarded in 1893  to Montreal HC .
In 1915 , the two professional ice hockey organizations , the National Hockey  संघ ( नह ) और the प्रशांत coast हॉकी संघ ( pcha ) , पहुँचे  a gentlemen 's agreement in which their respective champions would face each other for the Stanley Cup .
After a series of league mergers and folds , the Stanley `` Presentation Cup '' was established as the de facto  चैंपियनशिप ट्रॉफी of the एनएचएल in 1926 और तब the de jure एनएचएल चैंपियनशिप पुरस्कार  in 1947 .
वहीँ हैं दरअसल तीन स्टेनली cups : the असली कटोरी of the `` डोमिनियन हॉकी चुनौती  Cup '' , the authenticated `` Presentation Cup '' , and the `` Replica Cup '' at the Hall of Fame .
The NHL has maintained effective control over both the trophy  itself और इसके संबद्ध trademarks  .
Nevertheless , the NHL does not actually own the trophy , but  बजाय उपयोग it by अनुबंध साथ the दो trustees of the  Cup .
The NHL has registered trademarks  संबद्ध साथ the नाम और likeness of the स्टेनली कप , हालांकि the लीग 's सही to  outright own trademarks associated with a trophy it does not own has been disputed by some legal experts .
Unlike the trophies awarded by the other three major professional sports leagues of North America , a  नई स्टेनली कप is नहीं बना प्रत्येक साल ; विजेता रखना it  until a new champion is crowned .
It is unusual among trophies , in that  it रै the names of सब of the जीतना खिलाड़ी , कोच  , management , and club staff engraved on its chalice .
Initially , a new band added each year caused the  ट्रॉफी to grow in आकार , कमाई the उपनाम `` stovepipe कप ''  .
In 1958 the modern  one-piece कप थी designed साथ a five-band बैरल जिससे could  contain 13 winning teams per band .
To avoid the Stanley Cup from  growing , जब the नीचे बैंड is पूरा  , the oldest band is removed and preserved in the Hockey Hall of Fame , and a new blank band added to the bottom .
It has been referred to as The Cup , Lord Stanley 's Cup , The Holy Grail , or facetiously (  chiefly by sportswriters ) as रब स्टेनली  's Mug .
The  स्टेनली कप is घिरी by numerous महापुरूष और परंपराओं , the oldest of  which is the celebratory drinking of champagne out of the cup by the winning team .
The  असली कटोरी थी बना of चांदी और is 18.5 सेण्टीमीटर ( 7.28  inches ) in height and 29 centimetres ( 11.42 inches ) in diameter .
The current Stanley Cup , topped with a copy of the original bowl , is made of a silver and nickel  मिश्रधातु ; it रै a ऊँचाई of 89.54 सेण्टीमीटर ( 35.25 इंच ) और weighs 15.5 गामा ( 34.5 lb / 2  st 61⁄2 lb ) .
चूंकि the 1914–15 ऋतु , the कप रै महरूम जीती a संयुक्त 94 टाइम्स  by 18 active NHL teams and five defunct teams .
Prior  to कि , the चुनौती कप  was held by nine different teams .
The Montreal Canadiens have won the Cup a record  24 टाइम्स और हैं फिलहाल the पिछला canadian-based टोली in  the NHL to win the cup after winning it in 1993 .
The Stanley Cup was not awarded in  1919 क्युकी of a स्पेनी फ्लू महामारी  , and in 2005 , as a consequence of the NHL lockout .
The  अनानास ( ananas comosus ) is a तीव्र संयंत्र साथ खाद्य अनेक फल consisting of coalesced  berries , and the most economically significant plant in the Bromeliaceae family .
Pineapples may be cultivated  इससे a क्राउन कटिंग of the फल , संभवतः flowering in 20–24 महीने  and fruiting in the following six months .
Pineapple does  नहीं ripen significantly  post-harvest .
Pineapples are consumed fresh ,  पकाया , juiced , और preserved , और हैं मिला in a चौड़ी  array of cuisines .
In addition to consumption , in the Philippines the pineapple 's leaves are used to produce the  वस्त्र रेशा piña - employed as a घटक of वॉल पेपर और furnishings , amongst  other uses .
In computer science , an integer is a datum of  अभिन्न आंकड़ा प्रकार , a आंकड़ा प्रकार जिससे represents कुछ परिमित उपसमुच्चय of the गणितीय  integers .
Integral data types may be of different sizes and may or  may नहीं be अनुमत to contain  negative values .
Integers are  commonly represented in a कंप्यूटर as  a group of binary digits .
The size of the  समूहीकरण varies so the नियत of पूर्णांक  sizes available varies between different types of computers .
Computer hardware nearly always provides a way to  represent a प्रोसेसर  register or memory address as an integer .
The Gordon Dam in Tasmania is a  विशाल हाइड्रो सुविधा , साथ an  installed capacity of .
Hydroelectricity is the term referring to electricity generated by hydropower ; the  उत्पादन of विद्युत शक्ति through the उपयोग of the गुरुत्वाकर्षक  force of falling or flowing water .
It is the most widely used form of renewable energy , accounting for 16 percent of global electricity generation – 3,427  terawatt-hours of विद्युत उत्पादन in 2010 , और is अपेक्षित to बढ़ाएँ परिचय 3.1 % प्रत्येक साल लिये the  next 25 years .
Hydropower is produced in 150 countries ,  साथ the asia-pacific प्रदेश generating  32 percent of global hydropower in 2010 .
China is the largest hydroelectricity producer , with 721  terawatt-hours of उत्पादन in 2010 , representing around 17 प्रतिशत  of domestic electricity use .
वहीँ हैं अभी तीन hydroelectricity पौधे larger than 10 gw  : the Three Gorges Dam in China , Itaipu Dam across the Brazil/Paraguay border , and Guri Dam in Venezuela .
The cost of hydroelectricity is relatively low ,  बनाना it a प्रतिस्पर्धी सोर्स of बेदर्दी विद्युत  .
The average cost of  विद्युत इससे a हाइड्रो संयंत्र larger than  10 megawatts is 3 to 5 U.S. cents per kilowatt-hour .
Hydro is also a flexible source of electricity since plants can  be ramped up और bas बहुत जल्दी to adapt to बदलना  energy demands .
However , damming interrupts the flow of  नदियाँ और can नुक़सान लोकल ecosystems , और भवन विशाल dams  and reservoirs often involves displacing people and wildlife .
Once a hydroelectric complex is constructed , the project produces no direct waste , and  रै a considerably निम्नतर आउटपुट स्तर of the ग्रीनहाउस गैस कार्बन डाइऑक्साइड  ( ) than fossil fuel powered energy plants .
वाइन लड़के at a यूनानी  symposium
the इतिहास of वाइन spans हज़ारों of सालो और is  closely intertwined with the history of agriculture , cuisine , civilization and humanity itself .
Archaeological evidence suggests that  the earliest ज्ञात वाइन उत्पादन occurred in कया is अभी the देश of जॉर्जिया  around 7000 BCE , with other notable sites in Greater Iran dated 4500 BCE and Armenia 4100 BCE , respectively .
The world 's  oldest ज्ञात वाइनरी ( दिनाँक to 3000 bce ) थी खोजा in areni-1  cave in a mountainous area of Armenia .
url_http  .
Increasingly clear archaeological evidence indicates that  domestication of the grapevine took प्लेस दौरान the जल्दी कांस्य आयु in the निकट ईस्ट , सुमेर और मिश्र  from around the third millennium BCE .
Evidence of the earliest  वाइन उत्पादन in balkans रै महरूम uncovered at पुरातत्व साइट in उत्तरी  Greece ( Macedonia ) , dated to 4500 BC .
These  वही साइट भी contain remnants of the संसार  's earliest evidence of crushed grapes .
In Egypt  , वाइन became a भाग of अंकित इतिहास , playing an  important role in ancient ceremonial life .
Traces of wild wine dating from the  दूसरी और पहला सहस्राब्दियों bce have भी महरूम  found in China .
मोरक्कन वाइन kasher  label 1930
The Jewish tradition and use of  कोषेर वाइन is डेटिंग वापस to biblical  times .
The long history  of the उपयोग और उत्पादन of वाइन throughout प्राचीन इसराईल is समर्थित  up by archeological evidence .
Within the Jewish diaspora  समुदायों सब around the ग्लोब , the परंपरागत और  religious use of kosher wine continued to this day .
Wine , linked in myth to Dionysus / Bacchus , was common in ancient  यूनानियों और रोम , और अनेक of आज 's प्रमुख wine-producing regions of  Western Europe were established with Phoenician and , later , Roman plantations .
Winemaking technology  improved considerably दौरान the समय of the रोमन साम्राज्य : अनेक अंगूर किस्में और cultivation तकनीकों यहूद ज्ञात ; the डिज़ाइन of the  wine press advanced ; and barrels were developed for storing and shipping wine .
Rashi , a  मध्यकालीन फ्रेंच रब्बी और पुकारा the `` पिता '' of सब टीका कि followed on the talmud और  the Tanakh , earned his living as a vintner .
Following the decline of Rome and its industrial-scale wine  उत्पादन लिये निर्यात , the ईसाई गिरिजाघर in मध्यकालीन यूरोपीय भी became a कड़ समर्थक of वाइन , जरुरी लिये जश्न  of the Catholic Mass . Whereas wine was forbidden in medieval Islamic cultures , its use in Christian libation was widely tolerated .
Geber and other Muslim chemists  pioneered the आसवन of वाइन लिये इस्लामी औषधीय और औद्योगिक  purposes such as perfume .
Wine production  धीरे increased , साथ खपत burgeoning  from the 15th century onwards .
Wine production survived the  विनाशकारी phylloxera जूं of 1887 और आखिरकार स्प्रेड to numerous  regions throughout the world .
Districts  of वेस्ट  Bengal
The Indian state of West  बंगाल सीमायें साथ नेपाल , भूटान , बांग्लादेश और the भारतीय राज्य of  Bihar , Jharkhand , Odisha , Assam and Sikkim .
the हिमालय झूठ in the उत्तर  of the state and the Bay of Bengal is at the south .
In between them , the river Ganges flows  eastwards और इसके प्रमुख distributary , the हुगली नदी , बहती दक्षिण to  reach the Bay of Bengal .
The Siliguri Corridor , which connects North-East  इण्डिया साथ बाकी of the इण्डिया , झूठ in the उत्तर  Bengal region of the state .
Geographically , West  बंगाल is विभाजित into a किस्में of regions— दार्जिलिंग हिमालयी हिल प्रदेश , terai और  Doors region , North Bengal plains , Rarh region , Western plateau and high lands , coastal plains , Sunderbans and the Ganges Delta .
In 1947 , when India gained  स्वतंत्रता , the राज्य of वेस्ट बंगाल थी formed साथ 14 जिले , as प्रति विभाजन योजना of the तब बंगाल  province of British India .
The former princely state Koch Bihar joined as a district in 1950 , and  the पूर्व फ्रेंच एन्क्लेव chandannagore joined as  part of the Hooghly district in 1954 .
The States  पुनर्गठन अधिनियम of 1956 led to जोड of पुरुलिया ज़िला  to the state and to enlargement of West Dinajpur district .
बाद , larger जिले ऐसे as वेस्ट दिनाजपुर  , 24 Parganas and Midnapore were bifurcated .
West Bengal is now divided into nineteen  जिले अंतर्गत तीन विभाजन  .
Districts are administered by District Magistrates , and  विभाजन हैं administered by डिवीजनल commissioners  .
Kolkata , the  पूंजी of the राज्य , constitutes  the Kolkata district .
Other districts are further divided into administrative  इकाई ऐसे as subdivisions और ब्लॉक , administered by sdo और bdo  , respectively .
The Panchayati Raj  रै a three-tier ढांचा  in the state .
The atomic unit is called a Gram  पंचायत , जिससे is the पंचायत संगठन लिये a संग्रहण  of villages .
The  block-level संगठन हैं पुकारा पंचायत samiti , और the  district-level organizations are named Zilla Parishad .
The Caribbean ( or ; ; ; or more commonly  antilles ) is a प्रदेश कि consists of the caribbean समुद्र , इसके आइलैंड्स ( कुछ घिरी by the caribbean समुद्र और कुछ bordering दोनो the caribbean समुद्र और the उत्तर  Atlantic Ocean ) , and the surrounding coasts .
The region is southeast of the Gulf of Mexico and the North  अमरीकी मेनलैंड , ईस्ट of सेंट्रल अमेरिका , और उत्तर  of South America .
situated largely on the caribbean थाली , the प्रदेश  comprises more than 700 islands , islets , reefs , and cays .
( See  the  list . )
These islands generally form island  arcs कि delineate the पूर्वी और उत्तरी  edges of the Caribbean Sea .
The Caribbean islands , consisting of the Greater Antilles on the north and the Lesser Antilles on the south and east ( including the Leeward Antilles ) , are part of the somewhat larger West  इंडीज समूहीकरण , जिससे भी शामिल the lucayan द्वीपसमूह ( comprising the बहामा और turks और caicos आइलैंड्स ) उत्तर of the वृहद antilles और caribbean  Sea .
in a wider भाव , the मेनलैंड देशों of बेलीज़ और गुयाना – historically  and culturally part of the British West Indies – may be included .
Geopolitically , the Caribbean islands are  प्रायः regarded as a subregion of उत्तर अमेरिका और हैं व्यवस्थित into 30 territories सहित  sovereign states , overseas departments , and dependencies .
From January 3 , 1958 , to May 31 , 1962 , there was a short-lived  देश पुकारा the संघ of the वेस्ट इंडीज रचित of टेन english-speaking caribbean territories , सब of जिससे  were then UK dependencies .
The West Indies cricket team  continues to represent अनेक of those राष्ट्र  .
This is a list of the 221 towns and  13 शहरों in the u.S. राज्य of नई  Hampshire .
लिये प्रत्येक town/city , the तालिका सूचियाँ the काउंटी to जिससे it belongs , इसके तिथि of incorporation , इसके जनसांख्यिकी according  to the 2010 census , its form of government , and its principal villages .
Cities  हैं indicated in boldface  .
Cities  और कस्बों हैं treated  identically under state law .
Cities are just  कस्बों जिनकी रूप of सरकारी थी बदला by a  special act of the New Hampshire legislature .
However ,  कस्बों फिलहाल हैं समर्थ to बदलें उनके रूप of सरकारी by सरल वोटर  approval of a new municipal charter , with several of the more populous towns having already done so .
The main slave  रूट in मध्यकालीन अफ़्रीकी  .
This article discusses  प्रणालियों , इतिहास , और प्रभाव of  slavery within Africa .
See Arab slave trade , Atlantic slave trade ,  maafa , और गुलामी in समकालीन अफ़्रीकी लिये अन्य चर्चाएँ  .
`` स्लेव हस्तांतरण  in Africa '' .
europeans प्रायः  did not enter the interior regions .
Slavery in Africa has  existed throughout the महाद्वीप लिये अनेक सदियां ,  and continues in the current day .
Systems of servitude and slavery were common in  अनेक भाग of the महाद्वीप , as वे यहूद in much of the प्राचीन संसार  .
In most African societies where slavery was prevalent , the  enslaved लोगों यहूद largely treated as indentured बन्दों और  not treated as chattel slaves .
When the Arab slave trade and Atlantic slave  व्यापार began , अनेक of the लोकल स्लेव प्रणालियों बदला और began supplying captives  for slave markets outside of Africa .
Slavery in historical Africa was  practiced in अनेक अलग फ़ॉर्म और कुछ of ये do नहीं clearly अनुरूप the परिभाषाएं of गुलामी  elsewhere in the world .
Debt slavery  , enslavement of युद्ध captives , सैन्य गुलामी , और दण्ड गुलामी यहूद सब practiced  in various parts of Africa .
Although there had been some trans-Saharan trade from  the आंतरिक of sub-saharan अफ़्रीकी to अन्य regions , गुलामी थी a छोटी भाग of the आर्थिक जीवन of अनेक  societies in Africa until the introduction of transcontinental slave trades ( Arab and Atlantic ) .
Slave practices  यहूद again रूपांतरित साथ यूरोपीय colonization  of Africa and the formal abolition of slavery in the early 1900s .
Brett Lorenzo Favre ( born October 10 , 1969 ) is a former  अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल क्वार्टरबैक जो खर्च the बहुमत of उसके करियर साथ the ग्रीन खाड़ी पैकर्स  of the National Football League ( NFL ) .
He was a 20-year veteran of the NFL , having played quarterback for the Atlanta Falcons ( 1991 ) , Green Bay  पैकर्स ( 1992 – 2007 ) , नई यॉर्क jets ( 2008 ) और मिनेसोटा वाइकिंग्स ( 2009 – 2010  ) .
Favre is the only quarterback in NFL history to throw for over 70,000 yards , over 500 touchdowns , over 300 interceptions , over  6,000 completions , और over 10,000 pass कोशिशें .
Favre started at the quarterback position for the University of Southern Mississippi for four  सालो पहले होने चयनित in the दूसरी गोलाकार of the 1991 एनएफएल ड्राफ्ट by अटलांटा ( 33rd overall  ) .
He was  traded to ग्रीन खाड़ी on फ़रवरी 10 , 1992 , लिये the  19th pick in the 1992 NFL Draft .
favre became the पैकर्स ' starting क्वार्टरबैक in the चौथी खेल of the 1992 ऋतु , stepping in लिये  injured quarterback Don Majkowski , and started every game through the 2007 season .
He was traded to the New York Jets and started at quarterback for the 2008  ऋतु पहले हस्ताक्षर साथ the वाइकिंग्स on अगस्त 18 , 2009 as उनके starting  quarterback .
He made an  एनएफएल रिकार्ड 297 लगातार  starts ( 321 including playoffs ) .
He is the  तभी खिलाड़ी to जीत the ap सबसे मूल्यवान  Player three consecutive times ( 1995–97 ) .
He has led teams to eight  प्रभाग championships ( 1995 , 1996 , 1997 , 2002 , 2003 , 2004 , 2007 , 2009 ) , पाँच nfc चैंपियनशिप खेल ( 1995 , 1996  , 1997 , 2007 , 2009 ) , and two Super Bowl appearances ( Super Bowl XXXI , Super Bowl XXXII ) , winning one ( Super Bowl XXXI ) .
He holds many NFL records ,  सहित सबसे करियर touchdown गुजरता , सबसे करियर गुजर गज , सबसे करियर pass completions , सबसे करियर pass कोशिशें ,  most career interceptions thrown , most consecutive starts by a player , most consecutive starts by a quarterback , most career victories as a starting quarterback , most sacked , and most fumbles .
He is also  referred to by उसके उपनाम `` the  Gunslinger '' .
Salesforce.com Inc. is a global  एंटरप्राइज़ तन्त्र कम्पनी headquartered in सैन फ्रांसिस्को  , California .
Though best known for its customer  संबंध प्रबन्धन ( crm ) उत्पाद , salesforce रै भी विस्तारित into the `` सोशल  enterprise arena '' through acquisitions .
It is currently ranked the most innovative  कम्पनी in अमेरिका by फोर्ब्स पत्रिका , as खूब as क्रमांक 27 in सौभाग्य  magazine 's 100 Best Companies to Work For in 2012 .
As of April 2013 , the  कम्पनी is क्रमित छठे  in providing services in marketing and customer service automation .
It is listed on the New York Stock  एक्सचेंज और is a constituent of the s & p 500  index .
Seahorse is  the शीर्षक दिए to 54 प्रजाति of समुद्री  fish in the genus Hippocampus .
`` Hippocampus '' comes from the Ancient Greek hippos  अर्थ `` घोड़ा '' और kampos  meaning `` sea monster '' .
Earth is the  तीसरा ग्रह इससे the सूर्य , और  the densest and fifth-largest of the eight planets in the Solar System .
It is also the largest of the Solar  प्रणाली 's चार स्थलीय ग्रह  .
It is sometimes  referred to as the संसार or  the Blue Planet .
Earth formed  लगभग 4.54 अरब सालो पहले , और जीवन appeared on  its surface within its first billion years .
Earth 's biosphere then significantly altered the atmospheric and other basic physical  शर्तें , जिससे सक्रिय the अप्रसार of जीवों as खूब as the गठन of the ओज़ोन परत , जिससे साथ साथ धरती 's चुम्बकीय  field blocked harmful solar radiation , and permitted formerly ocean-confined life to move safely to land .
The physical properties of the Earth , as well as its  geological इतिहास और कक्षा , have अनुमत  life to persist .
Estimates on how much  longer the ग्रह होगा be समर्थ to continue to support  life range from , to as long as .
Earth 's lithosphere is divided into  अनेक rigid खण्ड , or tectonic प्लेटों  , that migrate across the surface over periods of many millions of years .
About  71 % of the सतह is covered by नमक जल महासागर , साथ the शेष consisting of  continents and islands which together have many lakes and other sources of water that contribute to the hydrosphere .
Earth 's poles are mostly covered with ice that is the  ठोस बर्फ of the अंटार्कटिक बर्फ चादर और the समुद्र बर्फ कि  is the polar ice packs .
The planet 's interior remains active ,  साथ a ठोस आयरन भीतरी कोर , a द्रव बाहरी कोर कि generates the  magnetic field , and a thick layer of relatively solid mantle .
Earth gravitationally interacts  साथ अन्य वस्तुएँ in स्पेस  , especially the Sun and the Moon .
During one orbit around the Sun , the Earth rotates about its own  अक्ष 366.26 टाइम्स , बनाना 365.26 सौर दिनों  , or one sidereal year .
The Earth 's axis of rotation is tilted 23.4° away from the perpendicular of its orbital plane , producing  मौसमी विसंगतियाँ on the ग्रह 's सतह साथ a काल of एक तीव्र साल ( 365.24  solar days ) .
the चंद्रमा is धरती 's तभी  natural satellite .
it began orbiting  the Earth about .
The Moon 's gravitational  बातचीत साथ धरती stimulates समंदर tides , stabilizes the अक्षीय झुकाव  , and gradually slows the planet 's rotation .
The planet  is घर to लाखो of प्रजाति of जीवन , सहित  humans .
Both the mineral resources of the planet and the products  of the जीवमंडल योगदान संसाधन कि हैं प्रयुक्त to support a वैश्विक इंसान  population .
These inhabitants are grouped into about  200 स्वतंत्र sovereign राज्य , जिससे interact through कूटनीति , सफर , व्यापार  , and military action .
Human cultures have developed many views of the planet , including its  personification as a ग्रहीय देवता , इसके आकार as चपटा , इसके स्थिति as the बीच of  the universe , and in the modern Gaia Principle , as a single , self-regulating organism in its own right .
The  जादूगर इससे the waite-smith टैरो , जो is चित्रित using the  same tools that modern Wiccans use .
In the neopagan religion  of wicca , a दायरा of जादुई टूल्स हैं  used in ritual practice .
Each  of ये टूल्स रै अलग उपयोग और एसोसिएशन , और हैं प्रयुक्त  primarily to direct magical energies .
They are  प्रयुक्त at an वेदी , अंदर a  magic circle .
In traditional Gardnerian Wicca , the tools are often divided into personal  टूल्स , जिससे हैं लिये उपयोग by , और स्वामित्व by , an व्यक्तिगत wiccan , और आउटटेक  tools , used collectively by the coven .
This practice may derive partly from Masonic traditions ( such as  the उपयोग of the वर्गाकार और compasses ) , इससे जिससे wicca draws कुछ सामग्री , और partly इससे the संस्कार of the hermetic अनुक्रम  of the Golden Dawn .
The latter made much use of material from  मध्यकालीन grimoires ऐसे as the कुंजी of सुलेमान , जिससे रै अनेक illustrations of जादुई  tools and instructions for their preparation .
Typical  eukaryotic कोशिका  .
Cellular respiration is the  नियत of the metabolic प्रतिक्रियाएँ और प्रक्रियाओं कि लो प्लेस in the कोशिकाएं of  organisms to convert biochemical energy from nutrients into adenosine triphosphate ( ATP ) , and then release waste products .
The reactions involved in respiration are catabolic reactions , which break large  अणुओं into छोटी ones , releasing उर्जा in the प्रक्रम as कमजोर so-called `` high-energy '' bonds हैं replaced by stronger bonds in  the products .
Respiration is one  of the कुंजी तरीके a कोशिका gains उपयोगी उर्जा to ईंधन सेल्यूलर  activity .
Cellular respiration  is माना an ऊष्माक्षेपी  redox reaction .
The overall  प्रतिक्रिया is टूटा into अनेक छोटी ones जब it occurs  in the body , most of which are redox reactions themselves .
Although technically ,  सेल्यूलर श्वसन is a दहन प्रतिक्रिया , it  clearly does not resemble one when it occurs in a living cell .
This difference is  क्युकी it occurs in अनेक पृथक  steps .
While the overall reaction is a  दहन प्रतिक्रिया , no सिंगल प्रतिक्रिया कि comprises it is a दहन प्रतिक्रिया  .
Nutrients that are commonly  प्रयुक्त by एनिमल और संयंत्र कोशिकाएं in श्वसन शामिल शुगर , अमीनो acids और वसीय acids , और a आम oxidizing एजेंट ( इलेक्ट्रॉन  acceptor ) is molecular oxygen ( O2 ) .
The energy stored in ATP ( its third  फास्फेट समूह is weakly बंधुआ to the बाकी of the अणु और is cheaply टूटा allowing stronger  bonds to form , thereby transferring energy for use by the cell ) can then be used to drive processes requiring energy , including biosynthesis , locomotion or transportation of molecules across cell membranes .
a stored-pressure आग  extinguisher made by Amerex
A British fire extinguisher with ID sign , call  पाइंट और आग  action sign
A fire  extinguisher , ज्वाला extinguisher , or बस an extinguisher , is  an active fire protection device used to extinguish or control small fires , often in emergency situations .
It is not intended for use on an out-of-control fire , such as one which has reached the ceiling , endangers the user ( i.e. , no  एस्केप रूट , धुँआ , विस्फोट जोखिम , इत्यादि . ) , or वरना requires the  expertise of a fire department .
Typically , a  आग extinguisher consists of a hand-held बेलनाकार दबाव  vessel containing an agent which can be discharged to extinguish a fire .
In the United States , fire extinguishers , in all buildings other than houses , are generally  जरूरी to be सर्विस और inspected by a आग सुरक्षा सेवा  company at least annually .
Some  jurisdictions आवश्यकता अधिक  frequent service for fire extinguishers .
The servicer places a tag on the  extinguisher to indicate the प्रकार of सेवा performed ( सालाना निरीक्षण  , recharge , new fire extinguisher ) and when .
वहीँ हैं दो प्रमुख प्रकार of आग extinguishers  : stored pressure and cartridge-operated .
In stored pressure units , the expellant is  भंडारित in the वही कक्ष as the firefighting  agent itself .
depending on the एजेंट प्रयुक्त , अलग  propellants are used .
साथ शुष्क रासायनिक extinguishers , नाइट्रोजन is typically  used ; water and foam extinguishers typically use air .
Stored pressure fire  extinguishers हैं the सबसे  common type .
Cartridge-operated  extinguishers contain the expellant गैस in a पृथक कार्ट्रिज कि is  punctured prior to discharge , exposing the propellant to the extinguishing agent .
इस प्रकार is नहीं as आम , प्रयुक्त  primarily in areas such as industrial facilities , where they receive higher-than-average use .
They have the advantage  of सरल और संकेत रिचार्ज , allowing an ऑपरेटर to निर्वहन the extinguisher , रिचार्ज it ,  and return to the fire in a reasonable amount of time .
Unlike stored pressure types , these extinguishers use compressed carbon dioxide  बजाय of नाइट्रोजन , हालांकि नाइट्रोजन कारतूस हैं प्रयुक्त on कम तापमान ( -60 रेटेड  ) models .
कार्ट्रिज संचालित extinguishers हैं उपलब्धियाँ in शुष्क रासायनिक और शुष्क चूर्ण प्रकार  in the U.S. and in water , wetting agent , foam , dry chemical ( classes ABC and B.C . ) , and dry powder ( class D ) types in the rest of the world .
Fire extinguishers are further  विभाजित into हैंडहेल्ड और cart-mounted , भी पुकारा wheeled extinguishers  .
Handheld extinguishers weigh from 0.5 to  14 गामा ( 1 to 30 पाउंड ) , और हैं  hence , easily portable by hand .
Cart-mounted units typically  तौल 23+ गामा  ( 50+ pounds ) .
These wheeled models are most commonly  मिला at निर्माण साइट , विमानक्षेत्र runways , heliports  , as well as docks and marinas .
Native Americans in the United States are the indigenous peoples in North  अमेरिका भीतर the सीमाएँ of the present-day महाद्वीपीय संयुक्त राज्य , अलास्का , और the  island state of Hawaii .
They are  रचित of numerous , पृथक देशी अमरीकी जनजातियों और जातीय समूह  , many of which survive as intact political communities .
The terms used to refer to Native Americans  have महरूम विवादास्पद .
According to a 1995  u.S. जनसांख्यिकी census_bureau ब्यूरो census_bureau नियत of घर साक्षात्कार , सबसे of the उत्तरदाताओं साथ an expressed वरीयता refer to themselves as अमरीकी इंडियंस ( or बस  Indians ) , and this term has been adopted by major newspapers and some academic groups ; however , this term does not typically include Native Hawaiians or certain Alaskan Natives , such as Aleut , Yup'ik , or Inuit peoples .
Since the end of the  15th सदी , the माइग्रेशन of europeans to the americas , और उनके importation of africans  as slaves , has led to centuries of conflict and adjustment between Old and New World societies .
Europeans  निर्मित सबसे of the जल्दी लिखा ऐतिहासिक रिकार्ड परिचय  Native Americans after the colonists ' immigration to the Americas .
Many Native Americans lived as hunter-gatherer  समाजों और बताई उनके histories by मौखिक परंपराओं .
In many groups , women  carried आउट sophisticated cultivation of numerous किस्में of  staple crops : maize , beans and squash .
The indigenous cultures were  काफी अलग इससे those of the कृषिक , proto-industrial , ज़्यादातर ईसाई आप्रवासियों  from western Eurasia .
Many Native cultures were matrilineal ; the people occupied lands for use  of the संपूर्ण जातियाँ , लिये शिकार or कृषि  .
Europeans at that time had patriarchal cultures and had developed concepts of individual  प्रॉपर्टी अधिकारों साथ आदर to जमीन  that were extremely different .
The differences in cultures between the established Native Americans and immigrant Europeans , as well as shifting alliances among different nations of  प्रत्येक संस्कृति through the सदियां , caused extensive राजनैतिक टेंशन , जातीय हिंसा और सोशल disruption  .
The Native  अमेरिकी suffered ऊँची fatalities इससे the सम्पर्क साथ संक्रामक यूरेशियाई रोगों  , to which they had no acquired immunity .
Epidemics  बाद यूरोपीय सम्पर्क caused the महानतम  loss of life for indigenous populations .
Estimates of the pre-Columbian population of what today constitutes  the u.S. vary significantly , ranging इससे 1 लाख  to 18 million .
After the colonies revolted against Great Britain and established the United States of America , President George Washington  और हेनरी नॉक्स conceived of the विचार of `` civilizing '' देशी अमेरिकी in तैयारी  for assimilation as U.S. citizens .
Assimilation ( whether voluntary as with the Choctaw , or  मजबूर ) became a सतत नीति  through American administrations .
During the 19th century , the ideology  of manifest नियति became अभिन्न to  the American nationalist movement .
Expansion of European-American populations to the west  बाद the अमरीकी क्रान्ति resulted in increasing दबाव on देशी अमरीकी lands  , warfare between the groups , and rising tensions .
In 1830 ,  the u.S. कॉंग्रेस passed the भारतीय हटाना अधिनियम , authorizing the सरकारी to relocate देशी अमेरिकी इससे उनके homelands भीतर स्थापित  states to lands west of the Mississippi River , accommodating European-American expansion .
The first  यूरोपीय अमेरिकी to एनकाउंटर the पश्चिमी आंतरिक जनजातियों यहूद  generally fur traders and trappers .
There were also  जेसुइट प्रचारकों क्रियाशील  in the Northern Tier .
As United States expansion reached into the American West ,  settler और खनिक प्रवासियों आए into increasing विरोध साथ the ग्रेट  Basin , Great Plains , and other Western tribes .
These were complex nomadic cultures  आधारित on घोड़ा संस्कृति और मौसमी बाइसन  hunting .
They carried out strong resistance to United States incursions in the decades after the  अमरीकी सिविल युद्ध , in a श्रेणी of भारतीय युद्धों , जिससे यहूद बारंबार up जबतक the 1890s , लकिन  continued into the 20th century .
The  transcontinental रेलरोड brought अधिक non-natives  into tribal land in the west .
Over time , the U.S. forced a series of treaties and land  cessions by the जनजातियों , और स्थापित रिज़र्वेशन लिये उन्हें in  many western states .
U.S. agents encouraged Native Americans to adopt European-style farming and similar pursuits , but European-American agricultural technology of the  समय थी अपर्याप्त लिये प्रायः शुष्क रिज़र्वेशन lands .
In 1924 , Native Americans who  यहूद नहीं already u.S. नागरिकों  were granted citizenship by Congress .
Contemporary Native Americans have a unique relationship with the  संयुक्त राज्य क्युकी वे may be सदस्यों of राष्ट्र , जनजातियों  , or bands with sovereignty and treaty rights .
सेंट्रल अमेरिका ( ) is the सेंट्रल  geographic region of the Americas .
It is the southernmost , isthmian portion of the North American  महाद्वीप , जिससे connects साथ दक्षिण  America on the southeast .
When  माना भाग of the एकीकृत महाद्वीपीय  model , it is considered a subcontinent .
Central America consists of seven countries : Belize , Costa  रिका , el साल्वाडोर , ग्वाटेमाला , होंडुरास , निकारागुआ  , and Panama .
Central America is part  of the mesoamerican biodiversity हॉटस्पॉट ,  which extends from northern Guatemala through central Panama .
It is bordered by Mexico  to the उत्तर , the caribbean समुद्र to the ईस्ट , the उत्तर  Pacific Ocean to the west , and Colombia to the south-east .
Central America is an area of , or  लगभग 0.1 % of the धरती 's  surface .
As of 2009 , its population  थी अनुमानित at 41,739,000  .
It has a density  of 77 लोगों प्रति वर्गाकार  kilometer .
scrubs is an अमरीकी चिकित्सा comedy-drama टेलीविज़न श्रेणी निर्मित  by Bill Lawrence that aired from October 2 , 2001 to March 17 , 2010 on NBC and later ABC .
The series follows the lives of employees at the  fictional पवित्र दिल शिक्षण हॉस्पिटल  .
The title is a play on surgical scrubs and a term for a low-ranking  व्यक्ति क्युकी at the शुरूआत of the श्रेणी , सबसे of the प्रमुख वर्ण यहूद चिकित्सा  interns .
The series features fast-paced screenplay , slapstick , and surreal vignettes presented mostly as  the daydreams of the सेंट्रल अक्षर , dr. जॉन `` j.d . ''
Dorian ,  जो is निभाई by zach braff  .
अभिनेताओं अभिनीत alongside braff in the पहला आठ सीज़न शामिल सारा  Chalke , Donald Faison , Neil Flynn , Ken Jenkins , John C. McGinley and Judy Reyes .
The series has also featured multiple guest appearances by  फिल्मी अभिनेताओं , ऐसे as ब्रेंडन  Fraser , Heather Graham , and Colin Farrell .
In the ninth season , many new cast members were introduced and the show  सेटिंग स्थानांतरित इससे a हॉस्पिटल to  a medical school .
Out of  the असली डाल , तभी braff , faison और mcginley became  regular cast members , while the others with the exception of Reyes , made guest appearances .
braff appeared in छह एपीसोड  of the ninth season before departing .
Kerry Bishé , Eliza Coupe , Dave Franco and Michael  mosley became श्रेणी regulars साथ bishé बनने the दिखाएँ 's नई  narrator .
scrubs premiered on अक्तूबर  2 , 2001 on NBC .
The  श्रेणी प्राप्त a पीबॉडी  Award in 2006 .
During  the सातवाँ ऋतु , एनबीसी घोषित कि it  would not renew the show .
Shortly after the seventh season finale , ABC announced it had picked up the  आठवीं ऋतु of the श्रेणी , जिससे began जनवरी  6 , 2009 .
The ninth  ऋतु premiered on दिसम्बर  1 , 2009 .
On May 14 , 2010 ,  एबीसी घोषित it था officially रद्द  Scrubs .
An 1817 Boulton & Watt beam blowing  इंजन , प्रयुक्त in netherton at the ironworks of m  W Grazebrook .
Re-erected on the A38 ( M )  in बर्मिंघम , uk
A steam engine is a  ऊष्मा इंजन कि performs mechanical  work using steam as its working fluid .
Using boiling water to produce mechanical motion  goes वापस परिचय 2,000 सालो , लकिन जल्दी  devices were not practical .
Since the late  1700s भाप इंजन have become a प्रमुख सोर्स of  mechanical power .
The first  अनुप्रयोग यहूद निकालना जल इससे  mines .
In 1781 James Watt patented a  भाप इंजन कि उत्पादित निरन्तर rotative  motion .
These 10 hp engines enabled a wide range  of निर्माण मशीनरी to  be powered .
The  इंजन could be sited anywhere कि जल और कोयले or  wood fuel could be obtained .
By  1883 , इंजन कि could provide 10,000  hp had become feasible .
Steam engines could also be applied to vehicles  ऐसे as कर्षण इंजन और the रेल इंजनों जिससे हैं commonly बस  called steam engines outside America .
The stationary steam engine was a key component of the  औद्योगिक क्रान्ति , allowing कारखानों to locate  where water power was unavailable .
आज भाप turbines generate परिचय 90 % of the इलेक्ट्रिक शक्ति  in the United States using a variety of heat sources .
Steam engines are  बाह्य दहन इंजन , जहाँ the working  fluid is separate from the combustion products .
Non-combustion heat sources such as  सौर शक्ति , नाभिकीय शक्ति or geothermal उर्जा  may be used .
the आदर्श ऊष्मागतिक साईकिल प्रयुक्त to analyze इस प्रक्रम  is called the Rankine cycle .
In the cycle ,  जल is heated into भाप in  a boiler until it reaches a high pressure .
जब विस्तारित through पिस्टन्स or turbines  , mechanical work is done .
The reduced-pressure  भाप is तब सघन  and pumped back into the boiler .
In general usage , the term steam engine can refer to either the integrated steam plants (  सहित बायलरों इत्यादि . ) ऐसे as रेल भाप इंजनों  and portable engines , or may refer to the piston or turbine machinery alone , as in the beam engine and stationary steam engine .
Specialized devices such as steam hammers and  भाप pile ड्राइवर हैं निर्भर on भाप supplied इससे a  separate boiler .
a मिल इंजन इससे stott पार्क bobbin  Mill , Cumbria , England
A steam locomotive in Germany .This class of  इंजन थी निर्मित in 1942 – 1950 और संचालित  commercially until 1988 .
`` Move Bitch '' ( edited version titled `` Move B***h '' or simply `` Move ''  ) is the तीसरा आधिकारिक सिंगल इससे rapper ludacris '  album Word of Mouf .
The single features  mystikal और i-20 .
The single reached # 10 on the Billboard Hot 100 making it Ludacris  's पहला शीर्ष टेन hit on the चार्ट , it भी पहुँचे  # 3 on Hot Rap Tracks and # 3 on Hot R & B/Hip-Hop Singles & Tracks .
Puerto Rican  reggaeton duo maicol & मैनुएल sampled the सोंग  on `` Hoy Me Levanté '' on their 2002 release Yakaleo .
the सोंग is भी प्रदर्शित in एपीसोड 2 ,  Series One of British teen comedy/drama Skins .
The song was also used by World Wrestling Entertainment superstar Montel Vontavious  पोर्टर दौरान उसके छोटी कार्यावधि in रिंग of सम्मान  .
It was also used  लिये अप्रैल शिकारी in विभिन्न स्वतंत्र  circuits .
It was featured in the movie ATL starring T.I . , and ' Hancock , ' although  in the latter , the साफ संस्करण  was used .
A snippet of the song is played during  ट्रैफ़िक रिपोर्ट्स on अनेक रेडियो स्टेशन , प्रायः carrying  an urban/hip-hop format .
Retired NBA star and now ESPN analyst  jalen रोज़ is प्रदर्शित in the म्यूज़िक  video .
The  सोंग रै महरूम covered by चट्टान बैंड प्रारंभ ट्रबल , on उनके  album Every Solution Has Its Problem .
It was featured on British sitcom The Inbetweeners when the  वर्ण jay और neil took होगा on a 'pussy पैट्रोल ' in jay 's  red Nissan Micra .
It was sampled by Girl Talk on the  पहला track of उसके एल्बम सब दिन , ``  Oh No '' .
Elizabeth II ( Elizabeth Alexandra Mary ; born 21 April 1926 ) is the constitutional monarch  of 16 sovereign राज्य , ज्ञात as the राष्ट्रमंडल realms , और उनके territories  and dependencies , and head of the 54-member Commonwealth of Nations .
She is Supreme Governor of the Church of England and , in some of her  realms , carries the शीर्षक of defender of the आस्था as  part of her full title .
On her accession on 6 February 1952 , Elizabeth  became सिर of the राष्ट्रमंडल और महारानी regnant of सात स्वतंत्र राष्ट्रमंडल देशों : the संयुक्त किंगडम , कनाडा , ऑस्ट्रेलिया , नई जीलैंड  , South Africa , Pakistan and Ceylon .
From 1956 to 1992 , the  क्रमांक of उसके realms varied as territories gained स्वतंत्रता  and some realms became republics .
At present , in addition to the first four aforementioned countries , Elizabeth is Queen of Jamaica , Barbados , the  बहामा , हरा , पापुआ नई गिनी , the सुलेमान आइलैंड्स , तुवालू , संत लूसिया , संत विंसेंट और the grenadines , बेलीज़  , Antigua and Barbuda and Saint Kitts and Nevis .
Her reign of years is currently the second  longest लिये a अंग्रेजों monarch ; तभी  Queen Victoria has reigned longer at over 63 years .
एलिज़ाबेथ थी born in लंदन और शिक्षित  privately at home .
Her father acceded to the throne as George VI in 1936 on the abdication of his  bhai एडवर्ड viii , इससे जिससे समय वो थी the  heir presumptive .
She began  to undertake पब्लिक कर्तव्य दौरान the दूसरी संसार युद्ध , in जिससे  she served in the Auxiliary Territorial Service .
In 1947  , वो शादीशुदा प्रिंस फिलिप , ड्यूक of एडिनबर्ग , साथ जिसको वो  has four children : Charles , Anne , Andrew , and Edward .
उसके राजतिलक सेवा took प्लेस in  1953 and was the first to be televised .
The Queen 's many  ऐतिहासिक विज़िट और बैठक शामिल a राज्य विज़िट to the गणतंत्र of  Ireland and reciprocal visits to and from the Pope .
The Queen has seen major constitutional changes in her realms , such as devolution in the United  किंगडम और the patriation of the कनाडाई संविधान  .
Times of personal  significance have शामिल the births और विवाह of उसके children , the births of उसके grandchildren , the  investiture of the Prince of Wales , and the celebration of milestones such as her Silver , Golden , and Diamond Jubilees in 1977 , 2002 , and 2012 , respectively .
Major events in the Queen 's reign have included the Troubles in Northern  आयरलैंड , the falklands युद्ध , युद्धों साथ इराकी और the युद्ध  in Afghanistan .
There have been times of  निजी विषाद लिये उसके जिससे शामिल the मौत of उसके पिता at 56 , the हत्या of प्रिंस फिलिप 's ताऊ , रब माउंटबेटन , the विश्लेषण of उसके children 's विवाह in 1992  ( a year deemed her annus horribilis ) , the death in 1997 of her former daughter-in-law , Diana , Princess of Wales , and the deaths of her mother and sister in 2002 .
The Queen has occasionally faced severe press criticism  of the royal परिवार और रिपब्लिकन sentiments , लकिन support  for the monarchy and her personal popularity remain high .
christianity is the largest धर्म सूचीबद्ध by australians in  the national census .
In the 2011  जनसांख्यिकी , 61.1 % of australians यहूद  listed as Christian .
Australia has no  आधिकारिक राज्य धर्म और the ऑस्ट्रेलियाई संविधान protects  freedom of religion .
The presence of  christianity in ऑस्ट्रेलिया began साथ the आगमन of the पहला बेड़े  of British convicts in 1788 .
The religion  grew to खाता लिये 96.1 % of the नेशनल जनसांख्यिकी  at the time of the Federation of Australia in 1901 .
The Anglican Church of  ऑस्ट्रेलिया ( formerly ज्ञात as the गिरिजाघर of इंग्लैण्ड in ऑस्ट्रेलिया ) remained the largest denomination  until 1986 , when it was surpassed by the Roman Catholic Church in Australia .
Post-war multiculturalism and a decline in religious observance among some sections of the  जनसांख्यिकी have diversified the जनसांख्यिकी of धर्म in ऑस्ट्रेलिया  .
Of the roughly 61 % identifying as Christian in 2011 , the largest  denominations यहूद either रोमन कैथोलिक ( 25 % ) or anglican ( 17 % ) , साथ the तीसरा largest denomination होने the 5  % affiliated with the Uniting Church in Australia .
Post-war immigration has grown the numbers belonging to churches  जैसे the यूनानी परंपरागत archdiocese of ऑस्ट्रेलिया और वहीँ हैं विशाल और growing पेंटेकोस्टल  groups , such as Sydney 's Hillsong Church .
The  त्यौहार of ईस्टर और क्रिसमस  are public holidays in Australia .
Around a quarter of students attend church schools and Christian organisations are leading  non-government प्रदाताओं of स्वास्थ्य और welfare सेवाएं through संगठनों जैसे  Catholic Health Australia , Anglicare , UnitingCare Australia , the Salvation Army and St Vincent de Paul Society .
Historically significant  ऑस्ट्रेलियाई ईसाइयों have शामिल रेव dr जॉन dunmore लैंग , संत मरियम mackillop , कैथरीन  Helen Spence , Pastor David Unaipon , the Reverend John Flynn and Pastor Sir Doug Nicholls .
High profile contemporary Australian Christians include : Tim  कॉस्टेलो बैपटिस्ट मंत्री और वर्तमान सीईओ of संसार दृष्टि ऑस्ट्रेलिया , फ़्रैंक ब्रेनन , जेसुइट इंसान अधिकारों वकील , कार्डिनल जार्ज pell , कैथोलिक archbishop of सिडनी , फिलिप aspinall the वर्तमान anglican primate और archbishop of ब्रिसबेन  , Kevin Rudd , former Labor Prime Minister , and Tony Abbott , leader for the Federal Opposition Liberal Party .
चार्टर बनाना कॉलेजिएट स्कूल  , which became Yale College , October 9 , 1701
Yale University is a  निजी आइवी लीग शोध विश्वविद्यालयों  located in New Haven , Connecticut .
Founded in  1701 in the उपनिवेश of कनेक्टिकट , the विश्वविद्यालयों  is the third-oldest institution of higher education in the United States .
Originally chartered as the `` Collegiate School '' , the institution traces its roots to 17th-century clergymen who  sought to स्थापित a कॉलेज to ट्रैन पादरी और राजनैतिक नेताओ लिये the उपनिवेश  .
In  1718 , the कॉलेज थी renamed `` yale कॉलेज  '' to honor a gift from Elihu Yale , a governor of the British East India Company .
In 1861 , the Graduate School  of कला और sciences became the पहला u.S. संस्था to पुरस्कार the phd . yale became a founding  member of the Association of American Universities in 1900 .
Yale College was transformed , beginning  in the 1930s , through the स्थापना of  residential colleges : 12 now exist and two more are planned .
Yale employs over 1,100 faculty to teach and  सलाह परिचय 5,300 undergraduate और 6,100  graduate and professional students .
Almost all tenured professors teach undergraduate courses , more than  2,000 of जिससे हैं offered annually .
The University 's assets include an endowment valued at $ 19.4 billion  , the second-largest of कोई अकादमिक संस्था  in the world .
Yale 's system of  अधिक than दो दर्जन पुस्तकालयों holds  12.5 million volumes .
49 Nobel Laureates have been affiliated with the  विश्वविद्यालयों as विद्यार्थी , संकाय , और स्टाफ  .
Yale has produced  अनेक notable alumni , सहित पाँच u.S. राष्ट्रपतियों , 19 u.S. परम्  Court Justices , and several foreign heads of state .
At the graduate level , Yale Law School , Yale School  of आर्ट , और yale स्कूल of नाटक हैं consistently क्रमित the शीर्ष  programs in their field .
Yale Law  स्कूल is the सबसे चयनात्मक विधि  school in the United States .
Yale students compete  intercollegiately as the yale bulldogs in the ncaa प्रभाग i आइवी लीग .
The oldest intercollegiate athletic event in the United States is the  yale-harvard  regatta .
Artemisia tridentata ( `` big  sagebrush '' or `` sagebrush '' ) is an खुशबूदार झाड़ी इससे the परिवार asteraceae , जिससे grows  in arid and semi-arid conditions , throughout a range of cold desert , steppe , and mountain habitats in the Intermountain West of North America .
The vernacular name `` sagebrush '' is also used for several related members of the genus  artemisia , ऐसे as कैलिफ़ोर्निया sagebrush ( artemisia californica  ) .
Big Sagebrush and other Artemisia species are the dominant plants across large portions  of the ग्रेट जलाशय , covering कुछ 422,000 वर्गाकार मील in 11  western U.S. & Canadian states .
It is the  राज्य पुष्प of नेवाडा  .
Sagebrush provides  खाना और आवास लिये a किस्में of प्रजाति , ऐसे as ऋषि grouse , pronghorn  antelope , gray vireo , pygmy rabbit , and mule deer .
Big sagebrush was used as an herbal medicine by Native Americans throughout the Intermountain West of North  america—especially लिये preventing संक्रमण in wounds , stopping आतंरिक bleeding , और treating headaches  and colds .
Chemically , the active medicinal  constituents शामिल camphor , terpenoids  , and tannins .
Several major threats exist to sage brush  ecosystems , सहित इंसान settlements , परिवर्तन to agricultural जमीन , पशुधन चरने , हृदयरोग संयंत्र प्रजाति , wildfires  , and climate change .
Yahoo ! Mail is a free email  सेवा offered by the अमरीकी ढूंढें इंजन कम्पनी याहू  !
It was launched  in 1997 , और , according to comscore , याहू !  Mail is the third-largest web-based email service with 281 million users as of December 2012 .
Currently ,  याहू ! offers तीन  versions of Yahoo ! Mail .
The traditional `` Yahoo ! Mail Classic ''  continues the उपलब्धता of the असली इंटरफ़ेस introduced  in 1997 .
A version  introduced in 2005 शामिल a नई अजाक्स इंटरफ़ेस , drag-and-drop सुविधाएँ , improved ढूंढें कार्यक्षमता  , keyboard shortcuts , address auto-complete , tabs , and other updated features .
In October 2010 , Yahoo ! released a beta version of Yahoo ! Mail ,  जिससे शामिल सुधार to the  design , performance , search functionality , and Facebook integration .
in may 2011 , बीटा परीक्षण लिये the नई संस्करण रोका , और it became the  default interface for Yahoo ! Mail .
In early 2008 , Yahoo ! began offering unlimited mail storage to its users in  जवाब to heated प्रतियोगिता in the फ़्री web-mail मार्केट  segment .
On June 27 , 2009 ,  याहू ! मेसेंजर थी एकीकृत साथ  Yahoo ! Mail .
Tacoma ( , ) is a mid-sized urban port city and the  काउंटी सीट of पियर्स काउंटी , वॉशिंगटन , संयुक्त  States .
The city is on Washington 's Puget Sound , southwest of Seattle , northeast of the  राज्य पूंजी , ओलंपिया , और उत्तरपश्चिम of माउंट rainier नेशनल  Park .
The population was  198,397 , according to the  2010 census .
Tacoma is the second-largest city in the  puget ध्वनि क्षेत्रफल और the  third largest in the state .
Tacoma also serves as the center of business activity for  the दक्षिण ध्वनि प्रदेश , जिससे रै a जनसांख्यिकी of around 1 लाख लोगों  .
Tacoma adopted its name after the nearby Mount  rainier , originally पुकारा माउंट tahoma  .
It is  ज्ञात as the `` नगर of नियति '' क्युकी the क्षेत्रफल थी चुनी to be the  western terminus of the Northern Pacific Railroad in the late 19th century .
The decision of the railroad was  बहकावे by टकोमा 's neighboring deep-water हार्बर , शुरुआत  Bay .
By  connecting the खाड़ी साथ the रेलरोड टकोमा 's motto  became `` When rails meet sails . ''
Today Commencement Bay serves the Port of  टकोमा , a बीच of अंतरराष्ट्रीय व्यापार on the प्रशांत coast और वॉशिंगटन  state 's largest port .
Like most central  शहरों , टकोमा suffered a prolonged मनाही  in the mid-20th century as a result of suburbanization and divestment .
Since the 1990s , developments in the downtown  कोर शामिल the विश्वविद्यालयों of वॉशिंगटन टकोमा ; टकोमा कड़ी , the पहला आधुनिक इलेक्ट्रिक  light rail service in the state ; the state 's highest density of art and history museums ; and a restored urban waterfront , the Thea Foss Waterway .
With a long history of  blue-collar मजदूर राजनीती — इससे the रेलरोड मजदूर of the 19th सदी , to the longshoremen of the 20th सदी , to the मजदूर तैयार मजदूर of आज — टकोमा  has long been known for its rough , gritty image .
A song  परिचय टकोमा , `` thrice सब अमरीकी '' , by अमरीकी singer-songwriter और पूर्व निवासी neko मामला , describes  it as `` a dusty old jewel in the South Puget Sound / where the factories churn / and the timber 's all cut down '' .
Tacoma-Pierce  काउंटी रै महरूम नामित एक of  the most livable areas in the country .
Tacoma was  भी recently सूचीबद्ध as the  19th most walkable city in the country .
In contrast , the city is also ranked as the most stressed-out  नगर in the देश in a 2004  survey .
In 2006 , women 's magazine Self named  टकोमा the `` सबसे sexually स्वस्थ नगर ''  in the United States .
In 2012 , The Advocate gave Tacoma the title of `` Gayest City in America '' , in part because  of the विशाल विविधता of पब्लिक कार्यालयों आयोजित , और वॉशिंगटन राज्य गुजर a  bill in 2012 allowing LGBT couples to marry .
Tacoma is famous for  the 1940 पतन of the टकोमा  Narrows Bridge .
Chula Vista ( ; ) is the second largest city in the San Diego metropolitan area  , the सातवाँ largest नगर in दक्षिणी कैलिफ़ोर्निया , the fourteenth largest नगर in the राज्य of कैलिफ़ोर्निया  , and the 77th-largest city in the United States .
The population was  243,916 as of the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी  .
Located just from downtown San Diego  और इससे the मैक्सिकन किनारा in the दक्षिण खाड़ी प्रदेश of the महानगर क्षेत्रफल , the नगर is at the  center of one of the richest economic and culturally diverse zones in the United States .
Chula Vista is so named because of its scenic location  between the सैन डिएगो खाड़ी और तटीय पहाड़ foothills  .
संस्थापित in the जल्दी 19th सदी  , fast population growth has recently been observed in the city .
as the दूसरी largest नगर in सैन डिएगो काउंटी , chula विस्टा रै  quickly become a destination popular to many tourists .
Located in the city is one of America 's few year-round United States  ओलम्पिक प्रशिक्षण centers और लोकप्रिय पर्यटक गंतव्यों शामिल क्रिकेट बेतार amphitheater , the chula विस्टा मरीना  , and the Chula Vista Nature Center .
Metes and bounds is a system or method of  describing जमीन , रियल प्रॉपर्टी ( in  contrast to personal property ) or real estate .
The system has  महरूम प्रयुक्त in इंग्लैण्ड लिये अनेक सदियां , और is स्टिल  used there in the definition of general boundaries .
By custom , it was applied in the original  तेरह colonies कि became the संयुक्त राज्य , और in अनेक अन्य जमीन jurisdictions आधारित  on English common law .
Typically the system uses physical features of the local geography , along with  दिशानिर्देश और दूरियाँ , to define और describe the सीमाएँ of a पार्सल of  land .
The  सीमाएँ हैं वर्णित in a कार्यशील गद्य स्टाइल , working around the पार्सल in अनुक्रम ,  from a point of beginning , returning back to the same point ; compare with the oral ritual of beating the bounds .
It may  शामिल सन्दर्भ to अन्य adjoining parcels ( और उनके स्वामी  ) , and it , in turn , could also be referred to in later surveys .
At the time the description is compiled , it may have been  चिह्नित on the मैदान साथ स्थाई स्मारक लगाई जहाँ वहीँ यहूद no उपयुक्त प्राकृतिक  monuments .
The term ``  metes '' refers to a boundary पारिभाषित by the मापन of प्रत्येक सीधा चलाएं , निर्दिष्ट by a  distance between the terminal points , and an orientation or direction .
A direction may be  a सरल कम्पास bearing , or a precise  orientation determined by accurate survey methods .
The term `` bounds  '' refers to a अधिक सामान्य boundary वर्णन , ऐसे as साथ a निश्चित  watercourse , a stone wall , an adjoining public road way , or an existing building .
The system is often used to define larger pieces of property ( e.g . farms ) , and political subdivisions ( e.g . town  सीमाएँ ) जहाँ precise परिभाषा is नहीं जरूरी or होता be दूर too महंगी , or previously designated सीमाएँ can be incorporated into  the description .
Sir Isaac Newton ( 25 December 164220 March 1727 ) was an English  physicist और गणितज्ञ जो is widely regarded as एक  of the most influential scientists of all time and as a key figure in the scientific revolution .
His book Philosophiæ Naturalis Principia Mathematica (  `` गणितीय सिद्धान्त of प्राकृतिक दर्शनशास्त्र '' ) , पहला प्रकाशित in 1687 , रखी  the foundations for most of classical mechanics .
Newton also made seminal  योगदान to प्रकाशिकी और साझा क्रेडिट साथ गॉटफ्राइड  Leibniz for the invention of the infinitesimal calculus .
Newton 's Principia formulated the laws of motion and universal  gravitation कि वर्चस्व वैज्ञानिकों ' दृश्य of the शारीरिक ब्रह्मांड लिये the अगला तीन सदियां  .
It also demonstrated that the motion of objects on the Earth  और कि of celestial लाशें could be वर्णित by the वही  principles .
By deriving Kepler 's laws of planetary motion from his mathematical description of  गम्भीरता , न्यूटन removed the पिछला संदेह परिचय the वैध of the  heliocentric model of the cosmos .
न्यूटन निर्मित the पहला व्यावहारिक reflecting दूरदर्शी और विकसित a सिद्धान्त of रंग आधारित on the  observation that a prism decomposes white light into the many colours of the visible spectrum .
He  भी प्रतिपादित an अनुभवजन्य विधि  of cooling and studied the speed of sound .
In addition to his work on the calculus , as a mathematician Newton contributed to the study of power  श्रेणी , generalised the द्विपद प्रमेय to non-integer exponents , और विकसित न्यूटन 's विधि  for approximating the roots of a function .
Newton was a fellow of Trinity College  और the दूसरी lucasian प्राध्यापक of गणित  at the University of Cambridge .
He was a  devout लकिन अपरंपरागत ईसाई और , unusually लिये a सदस्य of the कैम्ब्रिज संकाय , he refused to लो पावन आदेश  in the Church of England , perhaps because he privately rejected the doctrine of trinitarianism .
In addition to his work on the mathematical sciences , Newton also dedicated much of his time to the study  of alchemy और biblical कालक्रम , लकिन सबसे of उसके कार्य in those क्षेत्रों remained  unpublished until long after his death .
In his later life ,  न्यूटन became अध्यक्ष of  the Royal Society .
He  भी परोसा the अंग्रेजों सरकारी as  Warden and Master of the Royal Mint .
प्रोf. वाल्टर lewin explains न्यूटन  's law of gravitation in MIT course 8.01
satellites और projectiles सब  obey Newton 's law of gravitation
Newton 's law of universal gravitation states that every point  द्रव्यमान in the ब्रह्मांड attracts प्रत्येक अन्य पाइंट द्रव्यमान साथ a फ़ोर्स कि is सीधे आंशिक to the उत्पाद of उनके masses और inversely आंशिक  to the square of the distance between them .
( separately it थी दिखाया कि विशाल spherically सममित masses आकर्षित  and are attracted as if all their mass were concentrated at their centers . )
This is a general physical law derived from  अनुभवजन्य observations by कया न्यूटन  called induction .
It is a part of classical mechanics and was formulated in Newton 's work Philosophiæ  naturalis प्रिन्सिपिया mathematica ( `` the प्रिन्सिपिया '' ) , पहला प्रकाशित on 5 जुलाई 1687  .
( When Newton 's book was  प्रस्तुत in 1686 to the royal समाज , रॉबर्ट  Hooke made a claim that Newton had obtained the inverse square law from him – see History section below . )
In modern  भाषा , the विधि राज्य the following:
Assuming SI  इकाई , f is measured in newtons ( n ) , m1 और m2 in गामा ( kg ) , r in  meters ( m ) , and the constant G is approximately equal to .
The  मान of the निरंतर g थी पहला accurately संकल्पित इससे the परिणाम of the कैवेंडिश प्रयोग conducted by the अंग्रेजों वैज्ञानिक  Henry Cavendish in 1798 , although Cavendish did not himself calculate a numerical value for G .
This experiment was also the  पहला परीक्षण of न्यूटन 's सिद्धान्त  of gravitation between masses in the laboratory .
It took  प्लेस 111 सालो बाद the प्रकाशन of न्यूटन 's प्रिन्सिपिया और 71 सालो बाद न्यूटन 's मौत  , so none of Newton 's calculations could use the value of G ; instead he could only calculate a force relative to another force .
Newton 's law of gravitation resembles Coulomb 's law of electrical forces  , जिससे is प्रयुक्त to गणना the परिमाण of  electrical force between two charged bodies .
Both are inverse-square laws , in which force is inversely proportional to  the वर्गाकार of the अलहदा  between the bodies .
Coulomb  's विधि रै the उत्पाद of दो आरोप in प्लेस of the उत्पाद of the masses , और the electrostatic  constant in place of the gravitational constant .
Newton 's law has since been superseded by Einstein 's theory of general relativity , but it continues to be used as  an बेहतरीन सन्निकटन of the प्रभाव of गम्भीरता .
Relativity is required only  जब वहीँ is a need लिये चरम परिशुद्धता , or जब dealing साथ gravitation लिये अत्यधिक विशाल और घना वस्तुएँ .
White and red flags , representing Iraqi and  अमरीकी मौतों , बैठना in the ग्रास चतुष्कोण of the घाटी पुस्तकालयों on the corvallis  , Oregon , campus of Oregon State University .
As part of the traveling Iraq Body Count  प्रदर्शनी इससे 2008 to 2009 ( नहीं सम्बन्धित to इराकी देह गिनती प्रोजेक्ट ) , the ध्वज उद्देश्य to ``  raise awareness of the human cost of the Iraq War . ''
(  may 2008  )
Casualties of the conflict in Iraq since 2003 ( beginning with the 2003 invasion of Iraq ,  और continuing साथ the ensuing occupation of इराकी , as खूब as the क्रियाएँ of the विभिन्न हथियारबंद समूह ऑपरेटिंग in the देश ) have आइये in अनेक  forms , and the accuracy of the information available on different types of Iraq War casualties varies greatly .
The table below  summarizes विभिन्न estimates of  the Iraqi casualty figures .
For troops in the U.S.-led multinational coalition , the death toll is  carefully tracked और अद्यतनीकृत रोज़ , और the names और छायाचित्र of those मारे in  action as well as in accidents have been published widely .
A total of  4,486 u.S. सैनिको यहूद मारे in  Iraq between 2003 and 2012 .
Regarding the Iraqis , however , information on both military and civilian casualties  is दोनो कम precise और कम सतत  .
Estimates of casualty levels are available from  पत्रकारों on the झाँकी , इससे officials of शामिल संगठन , और इससे समूह कि summarize सूचना on incidents  reported in the news media .
The  शब्द `` हताहत `` in इसके सबसे सामान्य  sense includes the injured as well as the dead .
खाते of the क्रमांक of गठबन्धन wounded vary widely , partly क्युकी it is नहीं  obvious what should be counted : should only those injuries serious enough to put a soldier out of commission be included ?
Do illnesses or  चोटों caused by दुर्घटनाओं गिनती , or  should the focus be restricted to wounds caused by hostile engagement ?
स्त्रोत using अलग परिभाषाएं may arrive at बहुत  different numbers , and sometimes the precise definition is not clearly specified .
Asalto al  coche ( डकैती of the कोच  ) , by Francisco de Goya
A highwayman was a thief  और brigand जो preyed on travellers  .
This type of outlaw usually travelled and  robbed by घोड़ा , as compared to a footpad  who travelled and robbed on foot .
Mounted robbers were widely  माना to be socially श्रेष्ठ to footpads  .
Such  लुटेरों संचालित in ग्रेट ब्रिटेन  and Ireland from the Elizabethan era until the early 19th century .
The word highwayman is first known to be used  in the साल 1617 ; अन्य euphemisms  included `` knights of the road '' and `` gentlemen of the road . ''
Two  शर्तें लागू to 19th-century उत्तर अमरीकी highwaymen  were road agents in some instances for mountain bandits while in other cases the term is Rlallaala for mountain-based ruffians .
In  the वही समय काल in ऑस्ट्रेलिया ,  they were known as bushrangers .
Earvin `` Magic '' Johnson , Jr. ( born August 14 , 1959 ) is a retired American professional basketball  खिलाड़ी जो निभाई पाइंट गार्ड लिये the लॉस एंजिल्स लेकर्स of the  National Basketball Association ( NBA ) .
After winning championships in high  स्कूल और कॉलेज , जॉनसन थी चयनित पहला overall in the  1979 NBA Draft by the Lakers .
He won a championship and an NBA Finals  सबसे मूल्यवान खिलाड़ी पुरस्कार in  his rookie season , and won four more championships with the Lakers during the 1980s .
Johnson retired abruptly in 1991 after announcing that he had contracted HIV , but returned to  खेल in the 1992 all-star खेल , जीतना the all-star mvp पुरस्कार  .
After protests from  उसके fellow खिलाड़ी , he रिटायर्ड again लिये चार सालो , लकिन लौटे in 1996 , at आयु 36 , to खेल 32 खेल  for the Lakers before retiring for the third and final time .
Johnson 's career achievements include three  एनबीए mvp पुरस्कार , नौ एनबीए फाइनल दिखावे , बारह all-star खेल , और टेन all-nba पहला और दूसरी  Team nominations .
He led the league in regular-season assists four times , and is the NBA 's all-time  नेता in औसत assists प्रति खेल ,  at 11.2 .
Johnson was a member of the `` Dream Team ``  , the u.S. बास्केट टोली कि जीती  the Olympic gold medal in 1992 .
After leaving the NBA in 1992 , Johnson formed the Magic Johnson  all-stars , a barnstorming टोली कि travelled around the संसार playing प्रदर्शनी  games .
Johnson was  सम्मानित as एक of the 50 महानतम खिलाड़ी in एनबीए इतिहास in 1996  , and enshrined in the Basketball Hall of Fame in 2002 .
He was rated the greatest NBA point guard of  सब समय by ईएसपीएन in  2007 .
His friendship and rivalry with Boston Celtics star Larry  बर्ड , जिसको he faced in the 1979 ncaa फाइनल और तीन एनबीए चैंपियनशिप श्रेणी ,  were well documented .
चूंकि उसके रिटायरमेंट , जॉनसन रै महरूम an एडवोकेट लिये hiV/  AIDS prevention and safe sex , as well as an entrepreneur , philanthropist , broadcaster and motivational speaker .
Johnson was a part-owner of the Lakers for several years , and  थी भाग of a समूह कि खरीदा the लॉस एंजिल्स डॉजर्स in 2012  .
Allium  कोशिकाएं in अलग phases  of the cell cycle
The cells of eukaryotes (  बाएँ ) और prokaryotes ( सही  )
The cell is the basic structural , functional  और biological ईकाई of सब ज्ञात जीना  organisms .
It is the  smallest ईकाई of जीवन कि is वर्गीकृत as a जीना बात  ( except virus , which consists only from DNA/RNA covered by protein and lipids ) , and is often called the building block of life .
It consists of a protoplasm enclosed  भीतर a झिल्ली , जिससे contains अनेक biomolecules ऐसे  as proteins and nucleic acids .
Organisms can be classified as unicellular ( consisting of a single cell ; including most bacteria ) or  बहुकोशिकीय ( सहित पौधे और पशु )  .
While the number of cells in plants and animals varies from species to  प्रजाति , इंसानो contain परिचय 100 खरब  ( 1014 ) cells .
Most plant and animal cells are between 1 and 100  micrometres और इसलिए हैं दृश्य तभी अंतर्गत the सूक्ष्मदर्शी  .
The  कोशिका थी खोजा  by Robert Hooke in 1665 .
The cell theory , first developed in 1839 by Matthias Jakob Schleiden and Theodor Schwann , states that all organisms are composed of one or  अधिक कोशिकाएं , कि सब कोशिकाएं आइये इससे preexisting कोशिकाएं , कि vital कृत्यों of an सजीव occur भीतर कोशिकाएं , और कि सब कोशिकाएं contain the खानदानी सूचना  necessary for regulating cell functions and for transmitting information to the next generation of cells .
Cells  उभरा on ग्रह धरती at  least 4.0–4.3 billion years ago .
The word cell comes from the  लैटिन गर्भगृह , अर्थ `` छोटी रूम ''  .
The descriptive term for the smallest living biological structure was coined by Robert Hooke in a book he published in 1665  जब he compared the कॉर्क कोशिकाएं he देखी through उसके  microscope to the small rooms monks lived in .
grecian सूत्र is a मेन 's बाल  coloring product in the United States .
Canada and  यूरोपीय previously बैन the उत्पाद क्युकी  of its use of lead acetate .
A motor scooter  's सामने साथ an अव्यवहारिक क्रमांक और किस्में of  headlamps , added for decorative purposes
A headlamp is a lamp  संलग्न to the सामने of a गाडी to  light the road ahead .
Headlamp performance has steadily improved throughout the automobile age , spurred by the great disparity between daytime and nighttime traffic fatalities : the U.S. National Highway Traffic Safety  प्रशासन राज्य कि nearly हाफ of सब traffic-related fatalities occur in the अंधेरा , despite  only 25 % of traffic travelling during darkness .
While it is common for the term headlight to be  प्रयुक्त interchangeably in अनौपचारिक चर्चा , headlamp is the पद लिये the यंत्र itself , जबकि हेडलाइट properly refers  to the beam of light produced and distributed by the device .
Other vehicles , such  as रेल और वायुयान , हैं  required to have headlamps .
Bicycle headlamps are often used on  साइकिल , और हैं जरूरी in कुछ jurisdictions  .
They  can be संचालित by a बैटरी or a छोटी विद्युत  generator on the wheel .
Additionally  ऑटोमोटिव रात्रि दृष्टि प्रणालियों कार्य to संपूरक headlamps  .
Women  's अधिकारों हैं the अधिकारों और entitlements claimed  for women and girls of many societies worldwide .
In some places these rights are  institutionalized or समर्थित by विधि , लोकल कस्टम , और आचरण  , whereas in others they may be ignored or suppressed .
They differ from broader notions of  इंसान अधिकारों through दावा of an अंतर्निहित ऐतिहासिक और परंपरागत  bias against the exercise of rights by women and girls in favour of men and boys .
Issues commonly associated with notions of  महिलाओं 's अधिकारों शामिल , हालांकि हैं नहीं सीमित to , the सही : to bodily अखंडता और स्वायत्तता ; to vote ( suffrage ) ; to थाम पब्लिक दफ्तर ; to कार्य ; to मेला मजदूरी or बराबर अदा ;  to own property ; to education ; to serve in the military or be conscripted ; to enter into legal contracts ; and to have marital , parental and religious rights .
Caryn Elaine Johnson , best known as Whoopi Goldberg ( , ( born  नवम्बर 13 , 1955 ) is an अमरीकी comedienne , अभिनेत्री , singer-songwriter , राजनैतिक activist  , author and talk show host .
Goldberg made her film debut in The Color Purple ( 1985 ) , playing  celie , a mistreated ब्लैक स्त्री in the गहन दक्षिण  .
She received a nomination for the Academy Award for Best  अभिनेत्री और जीती उसके पहला सुनहरी ग्लोब पुरस्कार लिये  her role in the film .
In 1990 , she played Oda Mae Brown , a wacky  मानसिक helping a slain man ( पैट्रिक swayze ) सहेजें उसके प्रेमी ( demi  Moore ) in the blockbuster Ghost .
This performance won her a second Golden Globe and an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress ; this  बना गोल्डबर्ग तभी the दूसरी ब्लैक स्त्री in the इतिहास of the अकादमी पुरस्कार to जीत an एक्टिंग  Oscar—the first being Hattie McDaniel who won for Gone With the Wind in 1939 .
Notable later films include Sister Act and Sister Act 2 , The Player , Made in America , How Stella Got Her  नाली वापस , लड़की , बाधित और चूहा रेस  .
She is also acclaimed for her roles as the bartender Guinan in Star Trek : The Next Generation , as Terry  doolittle in jumpin ' जोकर फ्लैश , और as कार्मेन tibideaux in ग्ली , as खूब as the आवाज़ of shenzi the लकड़बग्घा in the शेर  King .
Goldberg  रै महरूम मनोनीत लिये 13  Emmy Awards for her work in television .
She  थी co-producer of the लोकप्रिय खेल दिखाएँ हॉलीवुड  Squares from 1998 to 2004 .
She has been the moderator of the  दिन बात दिखाएँ the दृश्य  since 2007 .
Goldberg has a Grammy , two Daytime Emmys , two Golden Globes  , a टोनी ( लिये उत्पादन , नहीं एक्टिंग ) , और an ऑस्कर  .
In addition , Goldberg has a British Academy Film Award , four People  's चुनाव पुरस्कार , और रै महरूम सम्मानित साथ a स्टार on  the Hollywood Walk of Fame .
She is one of  the few मनोरंजनकर्ता जो have जीती  an Emmy , Grammy , Oscar , and Tony Award .
The National Hockey League ( NHL ; ) is an `` unincorporated not-for-profit association '' which operates a major professional ice hockey  लीग of 30 franchised सदस्य क्लब , of जिससे सात हैं फिलहाल स्तिथ in कनाडा  and 23 in the United States .
Headquartered in New York City , the  एनएचएल is widely माना to be the प्रीमियर पेशेवर बर्फ हॉकी लीग in the संसार , और एक of the प्रमुख पेशेवर  sports leagues in the United States and Canada .
The Stanley Cup , the oldest professional sports trophy in North America  , is awarded annually to the लीग playoff चैंपियन at the समाप्त of प्रत्येक  season .
The league was organized on November 26 , 1917 , in Montreal , Quebec ,  कनाडा , बाद the बर्खास्तगी of परिचालन of इसके पूर्ववर्ती संगठन , the नेशनल हॉकी संघ  ( NHA ) , which had been founded in 1909 .
It started with four teams and , through a series  of expansions , contractions , और  relocations , the league is now composed of 30 active franchises .
The nation to which the name of the league originally  referred थी कनाडा , हालांकि the लीग रै अभी महरूम binational चूंकि 1924 जब it विस्तारित into the संयुक्त  States .
After a labour dispute that led to the cancellation of  the संपूर्ण 2004–05 ऋतु , the लीग resumed खेल अंतर्गत a नई सामूहिक bargaining  agreement that included a salary cap .
In 2009 , the NHL enjoyed record highs in terms of  sponsorships , उपस्थिति , और टेलीविज़न  audiences .
The NHL draws many highly skilled players from all over the world and  फिलहाल रै खिलाड़ी इससे परिचय 20 अलग देशों  .
हालांकि canadians have historically गठित the बहुमत of the खिलाड़ी in the एनएचएल , over the पास्ट  four plus decades the percentages of US and European players have increased both because of the NHL 's continued expansion from six to thirty clubs since 1967 , and the increased availability of highly skilled European players .
maggots  feeding on carrion .
A maggot is the larva of a fly  ( अनुक्रम diptera ) ; it is लागू in particular to the लार्वे of brachyceran उड़ता , ऐसे as houseflies ,  cheese flies , and blowflies , rather than larvae of the Nematocera , such as mosquitoes and Crane flies .
`` Maggot '' is not a technical term and should not be taken as such  ; in अनेक मानक पाठ्यपुस्तकों of कीटविज्ञान it करता नहीं appear in the अनुक्रमणिका  at all .
In many  non-technical ग्रन्थ the पद is प्रयुक्त लिये  insect larvae in general .
Other sources have coined  उनके अपना परिभाषाएं ; लिये उदाहरण : ``  ...
The term applies  to a ग्रब जब सब ट्रेस of limbs रै disappeared ... '' और `` ...  Applied to the footless larvae of Dipters . ''
Maggot-like fly larvae are of wide importance in ecology and medicine ; among other roles , various species are  prominent in रीसाइक्लिंग carrion और कचरा , attacking फसलों और foodstuffs , spreading सूक्ष्मजैविक infections , और causing myiasis .
Herod ( , Hordos , Greek :  , hērōdēs ) , भी ज्ञात as हेरोदेस the ग्रेट ( 73/74 bce – 4  BCE in Jericho ) , was a Roman client king of Judea .
His epithet of `` the Great  '' is widely विवादित as he is वर्णित as `` a madman जो  murdered his own family and a great many rabbis `` .
He is also known for his colossal building  प्रोजेक्ट in जेरूसलम और elsewhere , सहित उसके विस्तार of the दूसरी टेम्पल in जेरूसलम ( sometimes  referred to as Herod 's Temple ) and the construction of the port at Caesarea Maritima .
Important  विवरण of उसके जीवनी हैं gleaned इससे the works of the  1st century CE Roman–Jewish historian Josephus Flavius .
The Romans made  हेरोदेस 's बेटे , हेरोदेस archelaus , ethnarch of judea , samaria , और idumea ( biblical  Edom ) from 4 BCE to 6 CE , referred to as the tetrarchy of Judea .
Archelaus was judged  incompetent by the रोमन सम्राट augustus जो तब संयुक्त samaria ,  Judea proper and Idumea into Iudaea province under rule of a prefect until age 41 .
Herod 's  अन्य बेटे हेरोदेस antipas थी tetrarch  of Galilee from 4 BCE–39 CE .
ABO blood  समूह antigens उपस्थित on रेड रक्त  cells and IgM antibodies present in the serum
The ABO blood group system is the most important blood type system ( or  रक्त समूह प्रणाली ) in इंसान रक्त transfusion  .
The  संबद्ध anti-a और anti-b antibodies हैं प्रायः igm antibodies , जिससे हैं प्रायः उत्पादित in  the first years of life by sensitization to environmental substances such as food , bacteria , and viruses .
ABO blood types are also present in some other animals ,  लिये उदाहरण apes ऐसे as chimpanzees , bonobos , और gorillas  .
Year 1907 ( MCMVII ) was a common year starting on Tuesday ( link will display the full  पंचांग ) of the gregorian पंचांग और a आम साल starting  on Monday of the 13-day-slower Julian calendar .
Northville is an  affluent नगर स्तिथ in और विभाजित by ओकलैंड  and Wayne counties in the U.S. state of Michigan .
The area is a suburb of  महानगर डेट्रॉयट .
the जनसांख्यिकी थी  5,970 at the 2010 census .
Most of the city is in  ओकलैंड काउंटी , और is घिरी by the नगर of novi  .
the वेन काउंटी portion is  surrounded by Northville Township .
Northville is  परोसा by northville  Public Schools .
The city is  स्तिथ पूर्वोत्तर of ऐन arbor और उत्तरपश्चिम  of Detroit .
Elaine Stritch ( born February 2 , 1925 ) is  an अमरीकी अभिनेत्री और vocalist  .
She has  appeared in numerous स्टेज plays और musicals , विशेषता  films , and many television programs .
She  is ज्ञात लिये उसके प्रदर्शन of `` the महिलाओं जो लंच '' in स्टीफन sondheim 's 1970 musical कम्पनी , उसके 2001  one-woman show , Elaine Stritch at Liberty , and recently for her role as Jack Donaghy 's mother Colleen on NBC 's 30 Rock .
She has been nominated for the Tony  पुरस्कार पाँच टाइम्स in विभिन्न श्रेणी  .
Stritch is  भी a three-time एमी पुरस्कार  winner .
Misfits is a British science  fiction comedy-drama टेलीविज़न दिखाएँ परिचय a समूह of यंग अपराधियों sentenced to कार्य in a जातियाँ सेवा  programme , where they obtain supernatural powers after a strange electrical storm .
the श्रेणी खोली in 2009  and is currently ongoing .
Antonia Thomas , Iwan Rheon , Lauren Socha ,  नाथन stewart-jarrett , और रॉबर्ट sheehan हैं introduced as अलीशा डैनियल्स , साइमन bellamy , केली बेली , कर्टिस  Donovan , and Nathan Young respectively .
Sheehan left after the second  श्रेणी , replaced in the तीसरा by जोसेफ gilgun as रूडी वेड  .
After the fourth series was  घोषित rheon , थामस और socha था बाएँ उनके भूमिकाएँ और होता be replaced by नई वर्ण कार्ला  Crome , Nathan McMullen and Matt Stokoe , as Jess , Finn and Alex respectively .
Midway  through the चौथी श्रेणी , stewart-jarrett बाएँ जबकि  Natasha O'Keeffe joined the cast as Abbey Smith .
On 19 March 2013 ,  चैनल 4 घोषित at a दबायें इवेंट कि वे have नवीनीकृत misfits  for a fifth and final series containing 8 episodes .
Brett Lorenzo Favre ( born October 10 , 1969 ) is a former American football quarterback who spent the majority of his career with the  ग्रीन खाड़ी पैकर्स of the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग (  NFL ) .
He was a 20-year veteran of the NFL , having played quarterback for the Atlanta Falcons (  1991 ) , ग्रीन खाड़ी पैकर्स ( 1992 – 2007 ) , नई यॉर्क jets ( 2008 ) और मिनेसोटा  Vikings ( 2009 – 2010 ) .
Favre is the only quarterback in NFL history to throw for over 70,000 yards , over 500 touchdowns , over 300  interceptions , over 6,000 completions , और over  10,000 pass attempts .
favre प्रारंभ at the क्वार्टरबैक स्थिति लिये the विश्वविद्यालयों of दक्षिणी मिसिसिपी लिये चार  years before being selected in the second round of the 1991 NFL Draft by Atlanta ( 33rd overall ) .
He was traded to Green Bay on February 10 ,  1992 , लिये the 19th चुनें in the 1992 एनएफएल  Draft .
Favre  became the पैकर्स ' starting क्वार्टरबैक in the चौथी खेल of the 1992 ऋतु  , stepping in for injured quarterback Don Majkowski , and started every game through the 2007 season .
He  थी traded to the नई यॉर्क jets और प्रारंभ at क्वार्टरबैक लिये the 2008 ऋतु पहले  signing with the Vikings on August 18 , 2009 as their starting quarterback .
He  बना an एनएफएल रिकार्ड 297 लगातार starts (  321 including playoffs ) .
He is the only player to  जीत the ap सबसे मूल्यवान खिलाड़ी तीन लगातार  times ( 1995–97 ) .
He has led teams to eight division  championships ( 1995 , 1996 , 1997 , 2002 , 2003 , 2004 , 2007 , 2009 ) , पाँच nfc चैंपियनशिप खेल ( 1995 , 1996 , 1997 , 2007 , 2009 ) , और  two Super Bowl appearances ( Super Bowl XXXI , Super Bowl XXXII ) , winning one ( Super Bowl XXXI ) .
He holds many NFL records , including most  करियर touchdown गुजरता , सबसे करियर गुजर गज , सबसे करियर pass completions , सबसे करियर pass कोशिशें , सबसे करियर interceptions thrown  , most consecutive starts by a player , most consecutive starts by a quarterback , most career victories as a starting quarterback , most sacked , and most fumbles .
He is also  referred to by उसके  nickname `` The Gunslinger '' .
The following is a list  of notable वायुयान hijackings around  the world .
The  संसार चौड़ी वेब ( abbreviated as www or w3 , commonly  known as the web ) , is a system of interlinked hypertext documents accessed via the Internet .
With a web browser , one can view web pages that may contain text  , बिंब , वीडियो , और अन्य मल्टीमीडिया , और  navigate between them via hyperlinks .
Using concepts from his earlier  हाइपरटेक्स्ट प्रणालियों जैसे enquire , अंग्रेजों इंजीनियर , कंप्यूटर वैज्ञानिक और at कि समय कर्मचारी of the cern , सर टिम berners-lee  , now Director of the World Wide Web Consortium ( W3C ) , wrote a proposal in March 1989 for what would eventually become the World Wide Web .
At CERN , a European  शोध संगठन निकट जेनेवा straddling the किनारा between फ़्रांस और स्विट्ज़रलैंड , berners-lee और belgian कंप्यूटर वैज्ञानिक रॉबर्ट cailliau प्रस्तावित in 1990 to उपयोग  hypertext `` to link and access information of various kinds as a web of nodes in which the user can browse at will '' , and they publicly introduced the project in December of the same year .
Wayne Lyman Morse ( October 20 , 1900July 22 , 1974 ) was a politician and attorney from Oregon , United States , known for his proclivity for opposing his  पार्टियों ' नेतृत्व , और specifically लिये उसके विपक्ष to the वियतनाम युद्ध on  constitutional grounds .
Born in Madison , Wisconsin , and educated at the University of Wisconsin-Madison and the University of Minnesota  विधि स्कूल , मोर्स स्थानांतरित to ऑरेगॉन in 1930 और began शिक्षण at the विश्वविद्यालयों of ऑरेगॉन स्कूल of विधि  .
During World War II he was elected to the United States Senate as a Republican ; he  became an स्वतंत्र बाद ड्वाइट D. आइज़नहावर 's चुनाव to  the presidency in 1952 .
While an independent , he set a record for performing the  दूसरी longest one-person filibuster in the इतिहास of  the Senate .
Morse joined the Democratic Party in 1955 , and was  reelected twice जबकि a सदस्य of कि  party .
Morse made a brief run for the Democratic Party  's अध्यक्षीय नामांकन in 1960  .
A few years later , Morse was one of only two Senators who  opposed the गल्फ of tonkin रेज़ोल्यूशन , जिससे  authorized the president to take military action in Vietnam without a declaration of war .
He continued to speak out against the war in  the ensuing सालो , और खोया उसके 1968 बोली लिये reelection to bob packwood , जो criticized  his strong opposition to the war .
Morse made two  अधिक बोलियों लिये reelection to the सीनेट  before his death in 1974 .
In parliamentary procedure , a motion to table has  दो अलग और contradictory अर्थs:
In the United  राज्य , to तालिका प्रायः अर्थात् the to lay [ the टॉपिक ] on the तालिका or to मूव  for postponement of consideration ; a proposal to suspend consideration of a pending motion .
Much less often , it means a motion to ``  put on the तालिका '' : a प्रस्ताव to शुरू विचार ( or reconsideration ) , a  usage consistent with the rest of the English-speaking world .
In the rest of the English-speaking world such as the United Kingdom , to table means to move to place [ the topic ] upon the table ( or to move to place on the  तालिका ) : a प्रस्ताव to शुरू विचार ( or reconsideration ) of  a proposal .
Both the American and the British dialects have the sense of `` to  तालिका '' as to lay [ the टॉपिक ] on the तालिका or to कारण [ the टॉपिक ] to  lie on the table .
The difference is the idea of what  the तालिका is लिये , कि of a शेल्फ बंद to the पक्ष , or an क्रियाशील  work bench .
The British meaning has the sense of the table as being an active work bench , with the topic being the center of attention ,  माना और discussed by सब जबतक it can be resolved , at जिससे  point it is taken off the 'table ' .
The American sense is that the table is like that  of a शेल्फ , अभिलेख , or long-term भंडार यंत्र , जहाँ the टॉपिक रै महरूम disposed of by sending it to the 'table  ' and leaving it there .
खिलौना स्टोरी 3 is a 2010 अमरीकी 3d कंप्यूटर एनिमेटेड comedy-drama  prison film , and the third installment in the Toy Story series .
It was produced  by पिक्चर्स एनिमेशन studios और वितरित  by Walt Disney Pictures .
Directed by Lee Unkrich , the film was released  विश्वव्यापी इससे जून through अक्तूबर in डिज़्नी डिजिटल  3-D , RealD , and IMAX 3D .
Toy Story 3 was also the  पहला फिल्मी to be released theatrically साथ  Dolby Surround 7.1 sound .
The screenplay was written by Michael Arndt , while Unkrich wrote the story along with John  lasseter और एंड्रयू stanton , क्रमशः निदेशक और co-writer of the दो पहला  films .
The plot focuses on the toys Woody , Buzz Lightyear , and  उनके मित्रों dealing साथ an अनिश्चित भविष्य as उनके मालिक , एंडी , prepares  to leave for college .
Actors  tom हैंक्स , टिम एलन , जोन cusack , डॉन rickles , estelle हैरिस , जॉन ratzenberger , वालेस  Shawn , Jeff Pidgeon , Jodi Benson , R. Lee Ermey , John Morris , and Laurie Metcalf reprised their voice-over roles from the previous films .
Jim  varney , जो निभाई slinky श्वान in the पहला दो films , और जो ranft  , who portrayed Lenny and Wheezy , both died before production began on Toy Story 3 .
The role of Slinky Dog was taken over by Blake Clark ( a friend of Varney ) , while Ranft  's वर्ण और विभिन्न अन्य यहूद लिखा आउट of the  story .
New  वर्ण शामिल प्रदर्शन by ned beatty , टिमोथी डाल्टन , क्रिस्टन schaal , bonnie हंट  , Whoopi Goldberg , Jeff Garlin , Richard Kind , and Michael Keaton .
The feature broke Shrek the Thirds record as the biggest opening day North  अमरीकी सकल लिये an एनिमेटेड फिल्मी unadjusted लिये महंगाई  , and a big opening with an unadjusted gross of $ 110,307,189 .
It is also the  highest-grossing खोलने वीकेंड लिये a पिक्चर्स  film , as well as the highest-grossing opening weekend for a film to have opened in the month of June .
This is the highest-grossing film of 2010  , दोनो in the संयुक्त राज्य और कनाडा , और  worldwide .
In early August , it became Pixar 's highest-grossing film at the North American box office ( surpassing Finding Nemo ) , and the  highest-grossing एनिमेटेड फिल्मी of सब समय विश्वव्यापी ( surpassing shrek 2 ) ; बाद कि माह , खिलौना स्टोरी 3 became the पहला कभी एनिमेटेड फिल्मी in  history to make over $ 1 billion worldwide .
It is currently  the 10th-highest-grossing  film of all time .
Toy Story 3 was nominated  लिये पाँच अकादमी पुरस्कार , सहित बेहतरीन चित्र  , Best Adapted Screenplay , and Best Sound Editing .
It was the third animated film ( after Beauty and  the जानवर और up ) to be मनोनीत लिये अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये  Best Picture .
It won the  पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन एनिमेटेड विशेषता और बेहतरीन असली  Song .
John Levell Starks ( born August 10 , 1965 ) is an  अमरीकी रिटायर्ड पेशेवर बास्केट  shooting guard .
Starks was  सूचीबद्ध at 6'5 '' और 190 पाउंड दौरान  his NBA playing career .
Although he was not drafted in the 1988 NBA Draft after attending four colleges in his native  ओक्लाहोमा , सहित ओक्लाहोमा राज्य विश्वविद्यालयों , he gained कीर्ति जबकि playing लिये the नई यॉर्क knicks of the नेशनल बास्केट संघ  in the 1990s .
Secure Digital or ( SD ) is a non-volatile  मेमोरी कार्ड स्वरूप लिये उपयोग in पोर्टेबल डिवाइस , ऐसे as मोबाईल फोन , डिजिटल  cameras , GPS navigation devices , and tablet computers .
The  सुरक्षित डिजिटल मानक is कायम  by the SD Card Association ( SDA ) .
SD technologies have been implemented in  अधिक than 400 ब्रांड्स आरपार दर्जनों of उत्पाद श्रेणी  and more than 8,000 models .
The Secure  डिजिटल स्वरूप शामिल चार कार्ड परिवारों  available in three different form factors .
The four families are the original Standard-Capacity ( SDSC ) , the High-Capacity ( SDHC ) ,  the extended-capacity ( sdxc ) , और the sdio , जिससे combines input/output कृत्यों साथ आंकड़ा भंडार  .
The three form factors are the original size , the `` mini  '' आकार , और the `` सूक्ष्म '' आकार ( देखिए उदाहरण  ) .
There  हैं अनेक combinations of रूप कारकों  and device families .
Electrically passive  adapters allow the उपयोग of a छोटी  card in a host device built to hold a larger card .
Host devices  कि comply साथ नए संस्करण of the specification provide पिछड़ा संगतता और accept पुरानी  SD cards , but this article explains several factors that can prevent the use of a newer SD card:
A newer card may offer  वृहद क्षमता than  the host device can handle .
A newer card may use a file  प्रणाली the मेजबान यंत्र can नहीं navigate  .
Use of an SDIO card requires the host device be designed for the  input/output कृत्यों the कार्ड  provides .
The organization of the card was  बदला starting  with the SDHC family .
Some vendors produced SDSC cards above 1 GB  पहले the sda था मानकीकृत a विधि  of doing so .
The SDA uses  अनेक trademarked लोगो to enforce अनुपालन साथ इसके विशेषताएँ  and assure users of compatibility .
ह्यूज जॉन mungo ग्रान्ट ( born 9 सितंबर 1960  ) is a British actor and film producer .
He has received a Golden Globe ,  a bafta , और an मानद césar .
His films have earned more than US $ 2.4 billion from 25  नाट्य रिलीज विश्वव्यापी  .
Grant achieved international stardom after appearing in Richard  कर्टिस 's कामयाब चार विवाह और a अंत्येष्टि  ( 1994 ) .
He used this breakthrough role as a  बारंबार cinematic persona दौरान the 1990s , delivering कॉमिक  performances in mainstream films like Mickey Blue Eyes ( 1999 ) and Notting Hill ( 1999 ) .
By the  फेरे of the 21st सदी , he था स्थापित खुद as  a leading man skilled with a satirical comic talent .
Grant has expanded his oeuvre with critically acclaimed turns as a cad in Bridget Jones 's  डायरी ( 2001 ) , परिचय a लड़के ( 2002 ) , प्रेम दरअसल  ( 2003 ) , and American Dreamz ( 2006 ) .
He later played against type with multiple cameo roles in the epic  नाटक फिल्मी बादल एटलस  ( 2012 ) .
भीतर the फिल्मी उद्योग , ग्रान्ट is cited as an anti-film स्टार  who approaches his roles like a character actor , and attempts to make his acting appear spontaneous .
Hallmarks of his comic  कौशल शामिल a nonchalant टच of विडंबना / sarcasm और पढ़ाई शारीरिक  mannerisms as well as his precisely-timed dialogue delivery and facial expressions .
The entertainment media 's coverage of Grant 's  जीवन बंद the बिग स्क्रीन रै प्रायः निष्प्रभ उसके  work as a thespian .
He has been vocal about his disrespect for the profession of acting , and in his disdain towards the  संस्कृति of हस्ती और दुश्मनी towards the मीडिया  .
In a career  spanning 30 सालो , ग्रान्ट रै repeatedly claimed कि एक्टिंग is नहीं  a true calling but just a job he fell into .
The Han Dynasty ( ; ) ( 206  bc – 220 ad ) थी an इम्पीरियल राजवंश of चीन , preceded  by the Qin Dynasty ( 221–207 BC ) and succeeded by the Three Kingdoms ( 220–280 AD ) .
It was founded by the rebel leader Liu Bang  , ज्ञात मरणोपरांत as सम्राट gaozu  of Han .
It was briefly  बाधित by the xin राजवंश ( 9–23  AD ) of the former regent Wang Mang .
This  interregnum separates the हान into दो अवधि : the पश्चिमी हान ( 206 bc – 9 ad )  and Eastern Han ( 25–220 AD ) .
spanning over चार सदियां , the काल of the हान  Dynasty is considered a golden age in Chinese history .
To  इस दिन , चीन 's बहुमत जातीय समूह refers to itself as the  `` Han people '' and the Chinese script is referred to as `` Han characters `` .
The Han Empire was divided into  क्षेत्रों सीधे नियंत्रित by the सेंट्रल सरकारी , ज्ञात as commanderies , और  a number of semi-autonomous kingdoms .
These kingdoms gradually lost all vestiges of their  स्वतंत्रता , विशेषकर following the विद्रोह of  the Seven States .
The Xiongnu ,  a nomadic कनफेडरेशन जिससे वर्चस्व the  eastern Eurasian Steppe , defeated the Han army in battle in 200 BC .
following the शिकस्त , a राजनैतिक विवाह गठबंधन थी negotiated  in which the Han became the de facto inferior partner .
When , despite the treaty , the Xiongnu continued to raid Han borders ,  सम्राट wu of हान ( r. 141–87 bc ) शुभारम्भ  several military campaigns against them .
The ultimate Han victory  in ये युद्धों आखिरकार मजबूर  the Xiongnu to accept vassal status as Han tributaries .
These campaigns expanded Han sovereignty into the Tarim Basin of Central Asia and  helped स्थापित the विशाल व्यापार संजाल ज्ञात as the रेशा सड़क ,  which reached as far as the Mediterranean world .
Han forces managed to divide the Xiongnu into  दो स्पर्धा राष्ट्र , the दक्षिणी और उत्तरी xiongnu , और  forced the Northern Xiongnu across the Ili River .
Despite these victories , the  territories उत्तर of हान 's सीमायें यहूद जल्दी overrun by the nomadic xianbei  Confederation .
After 92 AD , the palace eunuchs  increasingly शामिल themselves in अदालत राजनीती , engaging in हिंसक शक्ति struggles between the विभिन्न consort clans  of the empresses and empress dowagers , causing the Han 's ultimate downfall .
Imperial authority was also seriously challenged by large Daoist  धार्मिक समाजों जिससे instigated the पीला पगड़ी विद्रोह और the पाँच pecks  of Rice Rebellion .
Following  the मौत of सम्राट ling ( r. 168–189 ad ) , the राजमहल हिजड़े suffered होलसेल नरसंहार  by military officers , allowing members of the aristocracy and military governors to become warlords and divide the empire .
When  साओ pi , किंग of वेई , usurped the सिंहासन इससे  Emperor Xian , the Han Dynasty ceased to exist .
The Han  राजवंश थी an आयु of आर्थिक समृद्धि और देखी a significant विकास  of the money economy first established during the Zhou Dynasty ( c. 1050–256 BC ) .
The  coinage जारी by the सेंट्रल सरकारी मिंट in 119  BC remained the standard coinage of China until the Tang Dynasty ( 618–907 AD ) .
To pay for its military campaigns and the settlement of newly conquered frontier territories , the  सरकारी राष्ट्रीयकृत the निजी नमक और आयरन उद्योग in 117  BC .
These government monopolies were repealed during the Eastern Han period , and the lost revenue was  recouped through heavily taxing निजी उद्यमियों  .
The emperor was at  the शिखर of हान समाज  .
He presided over the Han government  लकिन साझा शक्ति साथ दोनो the धामों और नियुक्त मंत्रियों जो आए largely इससे  the scholarly gentry class .
From the reign of Emperor Wu onward , the Chinese court officially  प्रायोजित confucianism in शिक्षा और अदालत राजनीती , synthesized  with the cosmology of later scholars such as Dong Zhongshu .
इस नीति endured जबतक the पतन  of the Qing Dynasty in 1911 AD .
Science and technology during the Han period saw significant advances , including papermaking , the nautical steering rudder , the use of negative numbers in  गणित , the raised-relief मैप , the हाइड्रोलिक -powered armillary गोला लिये खगोलशास्त्र , और a भूकम्पमापी employing an उलट  pendulum .
Tourette syndrome ( also called Tourette 's syndrome , Tourette  's विकार , गाइल्स de la tourette सिंड्रोम , gts or , अधिक commonly , बस tourette 's or ts ) is an inherited neuropsychiatric विकार साथ onset in बाल्यकाल , characterized by अनेक  physical ( motor ) tics and at least one vocal ( phonic ) tic .
These tics  characteristically मोम और  wane , can be suppressed temporarily , and are preceded by a premonitory urge .
Tourette  's is पारिभाषित as भाग of a वर्णक्रम of टिक विकार  , which includes transient and chronic tics .
Tourette 's was once considered a rare and bizarre syndrome , most often associated with the exclamation of  obscene शब्द or socially अनुचित और अपमानजनक remarks ( coprolalia ) , लकिन इस लक्षण is उपस्थित in तभी a छोटी अल्पसंख्यक  of people with Tourette 's .
Tourette 's is no longer considered a rare condition , but  it is नहीं सदा correctly पहचाना क्युकी सबसे मामले हैं mild और the गंभीरता of tics decreases  for most children as they pass through adolescence .
Between 0.4 % and 3.8 % of children ages 5 to  18 may have tourette 's ; the व्यापकता of क्षणिक और दीर्घकालिक tics in school-age children is उच्चतर , साथ the अधिक आम tics of नजर blinking , खाँसी , गला clearing  , sniffing , and facial movements .
Extreme Tourette  's in adulthood is a rarity , और tourette 's करता नहीं  adversely affect intelligence or life expectancy .
Genetic and  पर्यावरणीय कारकों खेल a भूमिका in the etiology  of Tourette 's , but the exact causes are unknown .
In most cases ,  दवा is अनावश्यक  .
There is no  प्रभावी उपचार लिये प्रत्येक मामला of tics , लकिन निश्चित medications और therapies  can help when their use is warranted .
Education is an important part of any treatment plan , and explanation  और reassurance अलोन हैं प्रायः  sufficient treatment .
Comorbid  शर्तें ( co-occurring diagnoses अन्य than tourette 's ) ऐसे as attention-deficit अतिसक्रियता विकार ( adhd ) और obsessive–compulsive  disorder ( OCD ) are present in many patients seen in tertiary specialty clinics .
These other conditions often cause more functional impairment to the individual than the tics that are  the hallmark of tourette 's , hence it is महत्वपूर्ण to correctly पहचानो comorbid शर्तें और  treat them .
The eponym was bestowed by  jean-martin charcot ( 1825–1893 ) on निमित्त of उसके निवासी , जॉर्जेस अल्बर्ट édouard ब्रूटस गाइल्स de la tourette ( 1859–1904  ) , a French physician and neurologist , who published an account of nine patients with Tourette 's in 1885 .
सनबीम बैज  .
Sunbeam was a marque  पंजीकृत by जॉन marston co. ltd of wolverhampton  , England , in 1888 .
The company first made bicycles , then motorcycles and cars from the late 19th  सदी जबतक परिचय 1936 , और लागू the marque to सब तीन  forms of transportation .
The company also manufactured aero engines in the First World War and 647 aircraft  दौरान the दूसरी संसार युद्ध  .
A Sunbeam was the first British car to  जीत a ग्रैंड प्रिक्स रेस , और नियत a क्रमांक of  land speed records .
The company  गई into receivership in 1935 और थी खरीदा by  the Rootes Group , which continued to use the Sunbeam marque .
Fox News Channel ( FNC ) , also known as Fox News , is a  केबल न्यूज चैनल स्वामित्व by the फॉक्स entertainment समूह ,  a subsidiary of News Corporation .
As  of अप्रैल 2009 , the चैनल थी उपलब्धियाँ to 102 लाख households in the संयुक्त राज्य  and to viewers internationally , broadcasting primarily from its New York studios .
The  चैनल थी निर्मित by australian-american मीडिया mogul रुपर्ट मर्डोक ,  who hired former NBC executive Roger Ailes as its founding CEO .
It launched on October 7 ,  1996 to 17 लाख केबल सदस्य  .
It grew  दौरान the लेट 1990s और 2000s to become the प्रबल  cable news network in the United States .
Critics have  stated कि फॉक्स न्यूज चैनल promotes रूढ़िवादी राजनैतिक  positions and biased reporting .
Commentators , news anchors , and reporters at Fox News Channel have  responded कि न्यूज रिपोर्टिंग और राजनैतिक commentary operate independently of प्रत्येक अन्य , और have अस्वीकृत कोई पूर्वाग्रह in न्यूज रिपोर्टिंग  .
The mandibular first molar or six-year  molar is the दाँत स्तिथ distally ( दूर इससे the midline  of the face ) from both the mandibular second premolars of the mouth but mesial ( toward the midline of the face ) from both mandibular second molars .
It is located  on the mandibular ( निम्नतर ) मेहराब of the मुँह , और generally opposes the ऊर्ध्वहनु  ( upper ) first molars and the maxillary 2nd premolar in normal class I occlusion .
The function of this molar is similar to that of all  molars in लिहाज़ to पीस होने the प्रिंसिपल कार्रवाई दौरान mastication ,  commonly known as chewing .
There are usually five well-developed cusps on mandibular first molars  : दो on the buccal ( पक्ष निकटतम the गाल ) , दो lingual ( पक्ष निकटतम the जीभ  ) , and one distal .
There are great differences between the deciduous ( baby ) mandibular molars  और those of the स्थाई mandibular molars , भी हालांकि उनके फलन  are similar .
The permanent mandibular molars  हैं नहीं माना to have कोई दांत कि  precede it .
Despite being  नामित molars , the पतझड़ी molars हैं  followed by permanent premolars .
In the universal  प्रणाली of संकेतन , the पतझड़ी  mandibular first molars are designated by a letter written in uppercase .
The  सही पतझड़ी mandibular  first molar is known as `` S '' , and the left one is known as `` L '' .
The international notation has a  अलग प्रणाली of संकेतन  .
Thus , the right deciduous  mandibular पहला molar is ज्ञात as `` 84  '' , and the left one is known as `` 74 '' .
In the  सार्वभौमिक प्रणाली of संकेतन  , the permanent mandibular first molars are designated by a number .
The right  स्थाई mandibular पहला molar is ज्ञात as `` 30 ''  , and the left one is known as `` 19 '' .
The  पामर संकेतन उपयोग a क्रमांक in संयोजन साथ a  symbol designating in which quadrant the tooth is found .
For this tooth , the left and right  पहला molars होता have the वही क्रमांक , `` 6 '' , लकिन the सही एक होता have the प्रतीक  , `` ┐ '' , over it , while the left one would have , `` ┌ '' .
The  अंतरराष्ट्रीय संकेतन रै a अलग क्रमांकन प्रणाली than the पिछला दो , और  the right permanent mandibular first molar is known as `` 46 '' , and the left one is known as `` 36 '' .
mandibular प्राथमिक पहला molars प्रायः  have four pulp horns .
The first molar is usually the first  स्थाई दाँत to erupt और रै वयस्क undertones  .
Anatomy : The mandibular first  molar रै पाँच पुलिन : the mesiobuccal ( mb , toward midline और गाल ) , mesiolingual ( ml , toward midline  and tongue ) , distolingual ( DL , away from midline and towards tongue ) , distobuccal ( DB , away from midline and toward cheek ) , and distal ( D , away from midline ) , listed in order of decreasing size .
Listed in order of decreasing height they are  : ml , dl , df , mf , और D. an आठवीं cusp थी मिला in a प्राथमिक  second lower molar in an Argentinean child .
Viewed from the top of the tooth ( occlusal view ) , the mandibular first molar is pentagonal ( five sided  ) in आकार और tapers toward the lingual , साथ the पहलू होने the buccal सतह , the mesial सतह  , the lingual surface , distal surface , and the distobuccal surface .
The  occlusal सतह रै चार  grooves .
The central groove is not straight but runs down the center of the  दाँत mesially to distally और contains चार गड्ढों ( mesial , सेंट्रल  , central , and distal ) .
The distobuccal groove runs from  the distal गड्ढे in the सेंट्रल नाली distobuccally  separating the distal and distobuccal cusps .
The lingual groove runs from the more distal of the central pits in the central groove toward  the lingual सतह between the mesiolingual और distolingual  cusps .
The buccal groove runs from the more mesial of the central pits in the central groove  toward the buccal सतह between the mesiobuccal और  distobuccal cusps ending in the buccal pit .
The portion of the central groove between the central pits is termed the Lewis offset and is mandatory to account for the  स्थितियाँ of the buccal और lingual डोले ( buccal नाली होने अधिक mesial than the lingual नाली जबकि वे  are parallel ) .
From the buccal (  buccal दृश्य ) , दो जड़ें हैं उपस्थित  .
The distal  रूट is generally straighter ,  although both often have a slight distal curvature .
The heights of contour on the mesial and distal contact the adjacent  दांत और हैं स्तिथ at the जंक्शन of the occlusal और मध्य तिहाई of the  crown .
the फ्लोरिडा विधानमंडल is the दो घरों कि अधिनियम as  the state legislature of the U.S. state of Florida .
The Florida Constitution states that `` The legislative power of the state shall be vested  in a विधानमंडल of the राज्य of फ्लोरिडा , '' रचित of a सीनेट और हाउस of प्रतिनिधि  .
The legislature is seated  at the फ्लोरिडा राज्य  Capitol in Tallahassee .
Stained glass  चित्रण of डेनियल interceding  with Arioch , the king 's guard .
Arioch had been charged with killing all the wise men  बाद वे यहूद नहीं समर्थ to interpret nebuchadnezzar  's dream .
Daniel 2  is the दूसरी अध्याय of the किताब  of Daniel in the Hebrew Bible .
The chapter 's source text is  predominantly लिखा  in Aramaic .
According to the text , Nebuchadnezzar is the king of Babylon  जो is troubled by उसके सपनो  .
He demands an interpretation for his dreams or  होगा have उसके रहस्यवादी interpreters चलाया  .
Daniel seeks Divine Wisdom to interpret the  किंग 's सपनो और गुणगान परमेश्वर  with a short psalm .
God gives  डेनियल a दृष्टि in the  night to reveal the king 's dream .
Able to satisfy the king , Daniel is  प्रचारित over the पूरे प्रांत of बाबुल  .
One Comcast Center , the  मुख्यालय of comcast in फिलाडेल्फिया  , PA .
The old  comcast लोगो इससे 1969 to 1999  , when it was replaced with the crescent logo .
The Comcast Corporation  is an अमरीकी प्रदाता of entertainment  , information and communications products and services .
It is the largest cable operator , one of the biggest mass media , home  अंतरजाल सेवा प्रदाता , और तीसरा largest घर टेलीफोन सेवा प्रदाता in the संयुक्त राज्य , providing केबल टेलीविज़न , ब्रॉडबैंड अंतरजाल , टेलीफोन सेवा और in कुछ क्षेत्रों घर सुरक्षा ( सहित burglar सचेतक , निगरानी कैमरे ,  fire alarm systems and home automation ) to both residential and commercial customers in 40 states and the District of Columbia .
The company is  headquartered in फिलाडेल्फिया , पेन्सिलवेनिया  .
In 2011 , Comcast acquired a 51 % majority stake in media conglomerate  nbcuniversal इससे ge in जनवरी 2011 , और began the प्रक्रम of खरीदना the बाकी 49 % on फ़रवरी  12 , 2013 , at a cost of $ 16.7 billion .
It  समाप्त the खरीदें on कूच  19 , 2013 .
Comcast  भी रै significant पकड़कर  in several cable networks ( including E !
entertainment टेलीविज़न , स्टाइल संजाल , g4 ,  the Golf Channel and NBC Sports Network ) , distribution ( ThePlatform ) , and related businesses .
Comcast has been the  विषय of आलोचना लिये क्रियाएँ सहित इसके stance on जाल neutrality  , as well as poor results on customer satisfaction surveys .
porcupines हैं rodents साथ a कोट of शार्प  spines , or quills , that defend and camouflage them from predators .
They are indigenous to the Americas  , दक्षिणी एशिया , और  Africa .
porcupines हैं the तीसरा largest of the  rodents , behind the capybara and the beaver .
Most  porcupines हैं परिचय long  , with an long tail .
Weighing , they are  rounded , विशाल और  slow .
Porcupines come in various shades of  भूरा , धूसर , और the असामान्य  white .
Porcupines ' spiny protection resembles that of the unrelated  erinaceomorph hedgehogs और monotreme  echidnas .
The common  साही is a herbivore  .
It eats leaves , herbs ,  टहनियों और ग्रीन पौधे जैसे skunk गोभी  and clover and in the winter it may eat bark .
The North American porcupine often climbs  पेड़ to ढूँढें खाना .
The African porcupine is not a  climber और forages on the मैदान  .
It is mostly nocturnal , but  होगा sometimes forage लिये खाना in the  day .
porcupines have become a pest in कीनिया और  are eaten as a delicacy .
The name porcupine  आता इससे मध्य फ्रेंच  porc espin ( spined pig ) .
A  क्षेत्रीय अमरीकी नाम लिये  the animal is quill pig .
First page of US  पेटेंट 129,843 लिये सुधार in  Lubricators for Steam-Engines
Elijah J. McCoy (  may 2 , 1844 – अक्तूबर 10 , 1929 ) थी a ब्लैक canadian-american आविष्कारक और इंजीनियर , जो थी notable लिये उसके 57 u.S. patents  , most to do with lubrication of steam engines .
Born free in Canada , he returned as a  five-year-old चाइल्ड साथ उसके परिवार to the संयुक्त राज्य in 1847 , जहाँ he जिया लिये the  rest of his life and became a US citizen .
Honda FCX Clarity , a hydrogen fuel  कोशिका demonstration गाडी introduced  in 2008
A hydrogen vehicle is a vehicle that uses hydrogen as  इसके onboard ईंधन लिये motive शक्ति  .
Hydrogen vehicles include hydrogen fueled space rockets  , as खूब as ऑटोमोबाइल और अन्य परिवहन  vehicles .
The power plants of such  वाहनों बदलें the रासायनिक उर्जा of हाइड्रोजन to mechanical उर्जा either by burning हाइड्रोजन in an आतंरिक दहन  engine , or by reacting hydrogen with oxygen in a fuel cell to run electric motors .
Widespread use of hydrogen for fueling  परिवहन is a कुंजी तत्व of a प्रस्तावित हाइड्रोजन  economy .
हाइड्रोजन ईंधन करता नहीं occur naturally on धरती और यूँ is नहीं an उर्जा  source ; rather it is an energy carrier .
It is most frequently  बना इससे मिथेन or अन्य चट्टान fuels , लकिन it can be उत्पादित using स्त्रोत ( ऐसे as हवा , सौर , or नाभिकीय  ) that are intermittent , too diffuse or too cumbersome to directly propel vehicles .
एकीकृत wind-to-hydrogen पौधे , using electrolysis  of water , are exploring technologies to deliver costs low enough , and quantities great enough , to compete with traditional energy sources .
Many companies are working to develop technologies  कि might efficiently exploit the संभावित of हाइड्रोजन उर्जा  for mobile uses .
The attraction of using  हाइड्रोजन as an उर्जा करेंसी is कि , if हाइड्रोजन  is prepared without using fossil fuel inputs , vehicle propulsion would not contribute to carbon dioxide emissions .
The drawbacks of hydrogen use are high capital cost , low energy content per unit volume , high tankage weights , very high storage vessel pressures , the storage , transportation and filling of  गैसीय or द्रव हाइड्रोजन in वाहनों , the विशाल निवेश in  infrastructure that would be required to fuel vehicles , and the inefficiency of production processes .
Sacramento is the capital city  of the u.S. राज्य of कैलिफ़ोर्निया और the सीट of सरकारी of sacramento  County .
It is located at the confluence of the Sacramento River and the American  नदी in the उत्तरी portion of कैलिफ़ोर्निया 's expansive सेंट्रल घाटी  .
With an  अनुमानित 2011 जनसांख्यिकी of 477,891 , it is the sixth-largest  city in California and the 35th largest city in the United States .
Sacramento is the core cultural and economic center of  the sacramento महानगर क्षेत्रफल जिससे शामिल सात काउंटी साथ an  estimated 2009 population of 2,527,123 .
Its metropolitan area is the fourth  largest in कैलिफ़ोर्निया बाद the वृहद लॉस एंजिल्स क्षेत्रफल , सैन फ्रांसिस्को खाड़ी क्षेत्रफल , और  the San Diego metropolitan area , as well as the 25th largest in the United States .
sacramento थी cited by समय पत्रिका as  America 's most ethnically and racially integrated city in 2002 .
Sacramento became a city  through the प्रयत्न of the स्विस अप्रवासी जॉन sutter , sr. , उसके बेटे जॉन  Sutter , Jr. , and James W. Marshall .
Sacramento grew quickly thanks  to the सुरक्षा of sutter 's फोर्ट , जिससे थी स्थापित  by Sutter in 1839 .
During the California Gold Rush , Sacramento was a major  वितरण पाइंट , a वाणिज्यिक और agricultural बीच , और a टर्मिनस लिये वैगन रेल , stagecoaches  , riverboats , the telegraph , the Pony Express , and the First Transcontinental Railroad .
California State University ,  sacramento , अधिक commonly ज्ञात as sacramento राज्य or सैक  State , is the largest local university .
It is one of the  twenty-three campuses of  the California State University system .
Drexel  विश्वविद्यालयों sacramento is स्तिथ in शहर  , Sacramento .
University of the Pacific 's  mcgeorge स्कूल of विधि is स्तिथ in  the Oak Park neighborhood .
In addition , the University of California , Davis  is स्तिथ in आसपास डेविस , वेस्ट of  the capital .
The UC Davis Medical Center , a world-renowned research hospital , is  स्तिथ in the नगर of sacramento  .
The Apple Store is a chain of  खुदरा स्टोर्स स्वामित्व और संचालित by ठहराना inc. , dealing in कंप्यूटर  and consumer electronics .
The stores sell Macintosh personal computers , software ,  ipods , ipads , आईफ़ोन , third-party accessories , और अन्य उपभोक्ता इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स ऐसे  as Apple TV .
Some high profile stores feature a Theatre for presentations and  वर्कशॉप और a स्टुडियो लिये प्रशिक्षण साथ ठहराना उत्पाद ; सब स्टोर्स प्रस्ताव a प्रतिभाशाली बार लिये तकनीकी support और मरम्मत  , as well as free workshops available to the public .
Under the leadership of Ron Johnson , the former Senior Vice President of Retail  परिचालन , the ठहराना स्टोर्स have , according to an आलेख in the नई यॉर्क टाइम्स , महरूम जिम्मेदार लिये `` [ turning ] the  boring computer sales floor into a sleek playroom filled with gadgets '' .
, Apple has 405 stores worldwide , with global sales of billion in  merchandise in 2011 , और वे सीसे the संयुक्त राज्य खुदरा  market in terms of sales per unit area .
स्टीवन पॉल `` स्टीव '' कार्य ( ; फ़रवरी 24 , 1955 – अक्तूबर 5 , 2011 ) थी an अमरीकी उद्योगों  and inventor , best known as the co-founder , chairman , and CEO of Apple Inc .
Through Apple , he was widely recognized as a charismatic pioneer of the personal computer revolution and for his  influential करियर in the कंप्यूटर और उपभोक्ता इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स फ़ील्ड , transforming `` एक उद्योग  after another , from computers and smartphones to music and movies ... ''
Jobs also co-founded and served as chief executive of Pixar Animation Studios ; he became a member  of the फलक of निर्देशकों of the वॉल्ट डिज़्नी कम्पनी in 2006 , जब डिज़्नी acquired  Pixar .
Jobs was among the first to  देखिए the वाणिज्यिक संभावित of xerox parc 's चूहा -ड्राइवn आलेखीय उपयोक्ता इंटरफ़ेस , जिससे led  to the creation of the Apple Lisa and , one year later , the Macintosh .
He also  निभाई a भूमिका in introducing the laserwriter ,  one of the first widely available laser printers , to the market .
बाद a शक्ति संघर्ष साथ the फलक of निर्देशकों in 1985 , कार्य  left Apple and founded NeXT , a computer platform development company specializing in the higher-education and business markets .
In 1986 , he acquired the computer  ग्राफिक्स प्रभाग of लुकासफ़िल्म , जिससे थी  spun off as Pixar .
He was credited  in खिलौना स्टोरी ( 1995 ) as an कार्यपालिका निर्माता  .
he परोसा as सीईओ और बहुमत shareholder  until Disney 's purchase of Pixar in 2006 .
In 1996 , after Apple had  विफल to उद्धार इसके ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली , copland , gil amelio turned to अगला कंप्यूटर , और the nextstep मंच  became the foundation for the Mac OS X .
कार्य लौटे to ठहराना as an सलाहकार , और  took control of the company as an interim CEO .
Jobs  brought ठहराना इससे निकट दिवालियापन to  profitability by 1998 .
As the new CEO of the company , Jobs oversaw the development of  the imac , itunes , ipod , iphone , और ipad , और on the सेवाएं पक्ष  , the company 's Apple Retail Stores , iTunes Store and the App Store .
The success of these products and services provided several years of stable financial returns , and  propelled ठहराना to become the संसार 's सबसे मूल्यवान सरेआम  traded company in 2011 .
The reinvigoration of the company is regarded by  अनेक टीकाकारों as एक of the महानतम turnarounds  in business history .
In  2003 , कार्य थी diagnosed  with a pancreas neuroendocrine tumor .
Though it was initially treated , he reported a hormone imbalance , underwent a liver  प्रत्यारोपण in 2009 , और appeared progressively thinner as उसके स्वास्थ्य अस्वीकृत  .
On medical  छोड़ लिये सबसे of 2011 , कार्य resigned in  August that year , and was elected Chairman of the Board .
He died of respiratory arrest  सम्बन्धित to उसके metastatic  tumor on October 5 , 2011 .
Jobs received a number of honors and public recognition for his  influence in the प्रौद्योगिकी और म्यूज़िक उद्योग  .
He has been referred to as `` legendary '' , a `` futurist '' or  बस `` दूरदर्शी '' , और रै महरूम वर्णित as the `` पिता of the डिजिटल क्रान्ति '' , a `` निपुण  of innovation '' , and a `` design perfectionist '' .
Entrance to section  ( 52 ) of the कोलोसियम , साथ numerals  still visible
Roman numerals , the numeric system in  प्राचीन रोम , उपयोग combinations of अक्षर इससे  the Latin alphabet to signify values .
the संख्याएँ 1 to 10 can be expressed  in Roman numerals as follows:
और  .
The Roman  numeral प्रणाली is a cousin of etruscan  numerals .
Use of Roman  numerals जारी बाद the मनाही  of the Roman Empire .
From the 14th century on , Roman numerals began to be replaced in most contexts by more convenient  hindu-arabic numerals ; however इस प्रक्रम थी क्रमिक , और the उपयोग of रोमन numerals in कुछ नाबालिग अनुप्रयोग continues  to this day .
Effective  नाभिकीय चार्ज आरेख
The effective  नाभिकीय चार्ज ( प्रायः symbolize as or Z* ) is the जाल धनात्मक  charge experienced by an electron in a multi-electron atom .
The term `` effective '' is  प्रयुक्त क्युकी the shielding प्रभाव of negatively चार्ज  electrons prevents higher orbital electrons from experiencing the full nuclear charge by the repelling effect of inner-layer electrons .
The effective nuclear  चार्ज अनुभवी by the बाहरी शेल इलेक्ट्रॉन  is also called the core charge .
It is  संभावित to determine the शक्ति of the नाभिकीय चार्ज  by looking at the oxidation number of the atom .
This is a  सूची of एपीसोड इससे the डिस्कवरी चैनल श्रेणी  , Storm Chasers .
A rural stretch of I-5 , with two lanes in each direction separated  by a विशाल grassy मध्य , और साथ cross-traffic सीमित  to overpasses and underpasses
the ड्वाइट D. आइज़नहावर नेशनल प्रणाली of अंतरराज्यीय और रक्षा राजमार्गों ( commonly ज्ञात as the अंतरराज्यीय राजमार्ग प्रणाली , अंतरराज्यीय फ्रीवे प्रणाली , अंतरराज्यीय प्रणाली , or बस the अंतरराज्यीय ) is a संजाल  of freeways that forms a part of the National Highway System of the United States .
The system is named for  अध्यक्ष ड्वाइट D. आइज़नहावर , जो championed  its formation .
निर्माण थी प्राधिकृत by the संघीय सहायता राजमार्ग अधिनियम of  1956 , and the original portion was completed 35 years later .
The network has since been extended , and , it had a  कुल लंबाई of , बनाना it the संसार 's दूसरी longest बाद चीन 's . , परिचय one-quarter  of all vehicle miles driven in the country use the Interstate system .
The cost of construction has been estimated at $ 425 billion ( in  2006 डॉलर ) , बनाना it the `` largest पब्लिक works कार्यक्रम चूंकि  the Pyramids `` .
The  प्रणाली रै contributed in shaping the संयुक्त राज्य into a संसार आर्थिक  superpower and a highly industrialized nation .
.eu is the country code  top-level डोमेन ( cctld )  for the European Union ( EU ) .
शुभारम्भ on 7 दिसम्बर 2005 , the डोमेन is उपलब्धियाँ  for organisations in and residents of EU member states .
The TLD is administered by EURid , a consortium originally  consisting of the नेशनल cctld रजिस्ट्री ऑपरेटर of बेल्जियम , स्वीडन  , and Italy , joined later by the national registry operator of the Czech Republic .
Trademark owners were able to submit  पंजीकरण through a सूर्योदय काल , in an प्रयत्न  to prevent cybersquatting .
Full  पंजीकरण प्रारंभ on 7  April 2006 .
Meister means  निपुण in जर्मनी ( as in निपुण craftsman  , or as an honorific title such as Meister Eckhart ) .
The  शब्द is akin  to maestro .
In sports ,  meister is प्रयुक्त लिये the वर्तमान नेशनल , यूरोपीय or संसार  champion ( Deutscher Meister , *Europameister , Weltmeister ) .
Many modern day German police forces use  the शीर्षक meister .
During the Second World War , Meister was the highest  आयोजिक रैंक of the ordnungspolizei  .
Meister has been  उधार into अंग्रेज़ी कठबोली , जहाँ it  is used in compound nouns .
A person referred to as “Meister” is one who has extensive  सैद्धांतिक ज्ञान और व्यावहारिक कौशल in उसके व्यवसायिक , कारोबार , or कुछ अन्य  kind of work or activity .
For example , a  “puzzle-meister” होता be किसी अत्यधिक skilled at  solving puzzles .
These neologisms sometimes have a sarcastic intent ( for  उदाहरण , “stubble-meister” लिये किसी साथ a छोटी , neat दाढ़ी or “crier-meister”  for someone who often cries ) .
Mighty Morphin Power Rangers is an American live-action children 's television series about teenagers with super-powers ,  आधारित on the 16th किश्त of the जापानी सुपर sentai मताधिकार , kyōryū sentai  Zyuranger .
Both the show and its related merchandise saw unbridled  overnight कामयाबी , बनने a स्टेपल of  1990s pop culture in mere months .
Under  the असली नाम , `` mighty morphin शक्ति रेंजरों '' the श्रेणी भागा इससे  1993 to 1995 and spawned the feature film Mighty Morphin Power Rangers : The Movie .
The second and third seasons of the  दिखाएँ खींचा on फुटेज और तत्व इससे the सुपर sentai श्रेणी gosei sentai dairanger और निंजा sentai kakuranger क्रमशः , हालांकि the  Zyuranger costumes were still used for the five main Rangers and several regular villains .
Only the mecha and the Kiba Ranger costume  ( worn by the श्वेत रेंजर ) यहूद retained इससे dairanger लिये the दूसरी ऋतु , जबकि  only the mecha from Kakuranger were featured in the third season .
However the Kakuranger costumes were later  प्रयुक्त लिये the शीर्षक वर्ण of the mini-series , mighty morphin एलियन  Rangers .
The series was produced by MMPR Productions , distributed by  saban entertainment , और aired on फॉक्स बच्चे  .
The show  's merchandise थी उत्पादित और वितरित  by Bandai Entertainment .
In 1996 , the series was rebranded as the Power Rangers franchise ; renaming  the श्रेणी प्रत्येक साल बाद , और using वेशभूषा , प्रॉप्स , और फुटेज इससे subsequent सुपर  Sentai series , as well as changing the cast and storyline .
जबकि an overarching कथानक होता continue जबतक शक्ति रेंजरों  Lost Galaxy , subsequent series after MMPR are not sequels or spin-offs in the traditional sense .
In 2010 , a re-version of Mighty Morphin Power Rangers , with a new logo , comic book-referenced graphics , and extra  वैकल्पिक खास प्रभाव , थी ब्रॉडकास्ट on एबीसी बच्चे , और बंदाई उत्पादित ब्रांड नई खिलौने to coincide  with the series .
एडगर allan पो ( born एडगर पो ; जनवरी 19 , 1809 – अक्तूबर 7 , 1849 )  was an American author , poet , editor and literary critic , considered part of the American Romantic Movement .
Best known for his tales of  रहस्य और the घोर , पो थी एक of the earliest अमरीकी practitioners of the छोटी स्टोरी और is generally  considered the inventor of the detective fiction genre .
He is further credited with contributing to the  उभरते विधा of विज्ञान fiction  .
He was the first well-known American writer to try to  earn a जीना through लिखने अलोन , resulting in a financially  difficult life and career .
He was born as  एडगर पो in बोस्टन , मैसाचुसेट्स ; he थी अनाथ यंग जब उसके माँ died  shortly after his father abandoned the family .
Poe was taken in by  जॉन और frances allan , of रिचमंड ,  Virginia , but they never formally adopted him .
He attended the  विश्वविद्यालयों of वर्जिनिया लिये एक सेमेस्टर लकिन बाएँ  due to lack of money .
After enlisting in the Army and later failing as an  अधिकारी 's cadet at वेस्ट पाइंट , पो parted तरीके  with the Allans .
His publishing career began humbly , with an anonymous collection of poems ,  tamerlane और अन्य कविताएं ( 1827 ) , credited तभी to  `` a Bostonian '' .
Poe switched  उसके फ़ोकस to गद्य और खर्च the अगला अनेक सालो working लिये साहित्यिक जर्नल्स  and periodicals , becoming known for his own style of literary criticism .
His work forced him to  मूव among अनेक शहरों , सहित बाल्टीमोर , फिलाडेल्फिया  , and New York City .
In  बाल्टीमोर in 1835 , he शादीशुदा वर्जिनिया clemm  , his 13-year-old cousin .
In January 1845 Poe published his poem ,  `` the रेवेन `` , to तत्काल  success .
His wife died of  तपेदिक दो सालो बाद इसके प्रकाशन  .
He began planning to produce his own journal , The Penn ( later renamed The  स्टाइलस ) , हालांकि he died पहले it could be उत्पादित  .
on अक्तूबर 7 , 1849 , at आयु 40 , पो died in बाल्टीमोर ; the कारण of उसके मौत is  unknown and has been variously attributed to alcohol , brain congestion , cholera , drugs , heart disease , rabies , suicide , tuberculosis , and other agents .
Poe and his works influenced  साहित्य in the संयुक्त राज्य और around the संसार , as खूब as in specialized फ़ील्ड , ऐसे as cosmology  and cryptography .
Poe and his work  appear throughout लोकप्रिय संस्कृति in साहित्य , म्यूज़िक , films  , and television .
A  क्रमांक of उसके घरों हैं  dedicated museums today .
The  रहस्य लेखक of अमेरिका उपस्थित an सालाना पुरस्कार ज्ञात  as the Edgar Award for distinguished work in the mystery genre .
Lions are  obligate carnivores ; वे आवश्यकता up to सात  kilograms ( 15 lbs ) of meat per day .
A major component of their diet is the  flesh of विशाल स्तनधारियों , जैसे  this African buffalo .
A carnivore ( ) meaning  'meat भक्षक ' ( लैटिन , caro अर्थ 'meat ' or 'flesh ' और vorare अर्थ 'to devour ' ) is  an organism that derives its energy and nutrient requirements from a diet consisting mainly or exclusively of animal tissue , whether through predation or scavenging .
Animals that depend  solely on एनिमल flesh लिये उनके nutrient आवश्यकताएँ हैं माना carnivores  while those that also consume non-animal food are considered carnivores .
Omnivores also consume both animal and non-animal food , and apart from the more  सामान्य परिभाषा , वहीँ is no clearly पारिभाषित अनुपात of संयंत्र to एनिमल सामग्री कि  would distinguish a facultative carnivore from an omnivore .
A carnivore that  sits at the शीर्ष of the foodchain is an apex  predator .
Plants that  कैप्चर और डाइजेस्ट कीट हैं  called carnivorous plants .
Similarly , fungi that capture  microscopic पशु हैं प्रायः पुकारा  carnivorous fungi .
The FIFA World Cup , often simply the World Cup , is an international association football competition contested by the senior men  's नेशनल टीमों of the सदस्यों of fédération internationale de फ़ुटबॉल संघ ( फीफा ) , the खेल 's वैश्विक शासी  body .
The championship has been awarded every four years since the inaugural tournament in 1930 , except in 1942  और 1946 जब it थी नहीं आयोजित क्युकी of the दूसरी  World War .
The  वर्तमान champions हैं स्पेन , जो जीती  the 2010 tournament .
The  वर्तमान स्वरूप of the टूर्नामेंट involves 32 टीमों स्पर्धा लिये the शीर्षक at venues भीतर the मेजबान  nation ( s ) over a period of about a month ; this phase is often called the World Cup Finals .
A qualification  phase , जिससे फिलहाल takes प्लेस over the preceding तीन सालो ,  is used to determine which teams qualify for the tournament together with the host nation ( s ) .
The 19 World Cup  tournaments have महरूम जीती by आठ अलग नेशनल  teams .
Brazil have won five times , and they are the only team to  have निभाई in प्रत्येक टूर्नामेंट  .
The other World Cup winners are Italy  , साथ चार शीर्षक ; जर्मनी , साथ तीन शीर्षक ; अर्जेंटीना और inaugural विजेता  Uruguay , with two titles each ; and England , France , and Spain , with one title each .
The World Cup is the  संसार 's सबसे widely viewed sporting इवेंट ; an अनुमानित 715.1 लाख लोगों देखी the फाइनल  match of the 2006 FIFA World Cup held in Germany .
The next three World Cups will be  hosted by ब्राज़ील in 2014 , रूस in 2018 , और क़तर  in 2022 .
Heroes is an American science fiction television  नाटक श्रेणी निर्मित by टिम क्रिंग कि appeared on एनबीसी लिये चार  seasons from September 25 , 2006 through February 8 , 2010 .
The  श्रेणी tells the कहानियां of ordinary लोगों जो discover superhuman  abilities , and how these abilities take effect in the characters ' lives .
The series emulates the aesthetic style and storytelling of  अमरीकी कॉमिक किताबे , using multi-episode स्टोरी arcs कि निर्माण upon a larger , अधिक encompassing  arc .
The series was produced by Tailwind  प्रोडक्शन्स in संघ  with Universal Media Studios .
It was  फिल्माया primarily in लॉस एंजिल्स ,  California .
Four complete seasons  aired , समाप्ति on फ़रवरी  8 , 2010 .
The critically acclaimed first season had a run of 23 episodes and  garnered an औसत of 14.3 लाख दर्शक in the संयुक्त राज्य , receiving the उच्चतम दरजा लिये an एनबीसी  drama premiere in five years .
The second season of Heroes attracted an average of 13.1 million viewers in the U.S. ,  और चिह्नित एनबीसी 's एकमात्र श्रेणी among the शीर्ष 20 क्रमित कार्यक्रम in कुल viewership लिये the 2007–2008  season .
Heroes has  अर्जित a क्रमांक of पुरस्कार और nominations , सहित प्राइमटाइम एमी पुरस्कार ,  Golden Globes , People 's Choice Awards and British Academy Television Awards .
An online  एक्सटेंशन of the श्रेणी , नायक 360 अनुभव , बाद rebranded as नायक evolutions ,  was created to explore the Heroes universe and provides insight into the show 's mythology .
Other official Heroes media include  मैगज़ीन , कार्रवाई आंकड़े , tie-in और इंटरैक्टिव वेबसाइटों , a मोबाईल खेल , a अनोखा  , clothing and other merchandise .
In the fall of 2008 , NBC Digital Entertainment  released a श्रेणी of ऑनलाइन सामग्री लिये the गर्मियाँ , सहित अधिक असली वेब सामग्री , बेतार आईटीवी interactivity  , graphic novels available for mobile viewing and webisodes .
NBC announced Heroes  रद्दीकरण on may 14  , 2010 .
Afterward , the network considered making a television special event to conclude the series ; however , on September 9 , 2010 , NBC announced the decision  to रोकें कोई further विकास of the नायक मताधिकार  .
Tim Kring then suggested that the broad premise of  नायक storylines अनुमत लिये the मताधिकार to वापसी लिये प्रशंसक , लकिन he किया  not specify when or in what media format .
On April 17  , 2013 , tv लकीर reported कि एमएसएन थी in बाते to revive  the series with a new cast .
जॉन pierpont  `` J. P . ''
Morgan ( April 17 , 1837 – March 31 , 1913 ) was  an अमरीकी फाइनेंसर , बैंकर , लोकसेवक और आर्ट कलेक्टर जो वर्चस्व कॉरपोरेट वित्त  and industrial consolidation during his time .
In 1892 Morgan arranged the merger of Edison General Electric  और thomson-houston इलेक्ट्रिक कम्पनी to रूप सामान्य इलेक्ट्रिक  .
After financing the creation of the Federal Steel Company , he merged in 1901 with the  कार्नेगी स्टील कम्पनी और अनेक अन्य स्टील और आयरन व्यवसायों , सहित संचित स्टील  and Wire Company owned by William Edenborn , to form the United States Steel Corporation .
Morgan died in  रोम , इटली , in उसके नींद in 1913 at the आयु of 75 , leaving उसके  fortune and business to his son , John Pierpont `` Jack '' Morgan , Jr. , and bequeathing his mansion and large book collections to The Morgan Library & Museum in New York .
At the height of Morgan 's career during the early 1900s , he and his partners had financial  निवेश in अनेक विशाल corporations और यहूद अभियुक्त by आलोचकों of controlling the स्वदेश 's ऊँची वित्त  .
He directed the banking  गठबन्धन कि रोका the दहशत  of 1907 .
he थी the अग्रणी फाइनेंसर of the प्रगतिशील era , और  his dedication to efficiency and modernization helped transform American business .
This is a list of episodes  of the टेलीविज़न श्रेणी  .
The episodes were directed by Shigeru Ueda and produced by the  yggdrasil कार्यपालिका कमेटी जिससे शामिल xebec और genco  .
The plot of the episodes is set in Tokyo and revolves around Rin Asōgi , an  अमर निजी अन्वेषक , as वो explores the रहस्य of आधुनिक और near-future  world and the supernatural events that surround the fictional society of immortals like herself .
There are large  समय गैप in the आतंरिक कालक्रम between the पहला पाँच एपीसोड  , ranging from one to thirty years .
The six episodes were  ब्रॉडकास्ट मासिक on at-x चैनल in जापानी , between फ़रवरी 3 और जुलाई  6 , 2008 .
प्रत्येक एपीसोड is 45 मिनट्स  long .
Two pieces of theme music are used for the episodes  : the खोलने थीम `` alsatia '' और the समाप्ति थीम `` कारण  Disarray '' .
Both were  रचित और performed by the  Japanese metal band Galneryus .
The series was produced to  commemorate the दसवाँ वर्षगांठ of the  AT-X network it originally aired on .
Aerial photo of FLETC , where US digital  forensics मानकों यहूद विकसित in the 1980s  and '90s
Digital forensics ( sometimes known as digital forensic science ) is a branch of forensic science  encompassing the रिकवरी और छानबीन of सामग्री मिला in डिजिटल डिवाइस ,  often in relation to computer crime .
The term digital forensics was originally used as a synonym for computer forensics  लकिन रै विस्तारित to कवर छानबीन of सब  devices capable of storing digital data .
With roots in the personal computing revolution of the late 1970s and early '80s , the discipline evolved in a  haphazard manner दौरान the 1990s , और it थी नहीं जबतक the जल्दी 21st सदी कि नेशनल  policies emerged .
Digital forensics  investigations have a किस्में of अनुप्रयोग  .
The most  आम is to support or खण्डन a परिकल्पना पहले दण्ड or  civil ( as part of the electronic discovery process ) courts .
Forensics may also feature in the private sector ;  ऐसे as दौरान आतंरिक कॉरपोरेट investigations or intrusion छानबीन ( a विशेषज्ञ जांच into the प्रकृति  and extent of an unauthorized network intrusion ) .
The technical aspect of an investigation is divided into several sub-branches , relating to the  प्रकार of डिजिटल डिवाइस शामिल ; कंप्यूटर forensics , संजाल forensics , forensic आंकड़ा विश्लेषण और मोबाईल यंत्र forensics  .
The  ठेठ forensic प्रक्रम encompasses the seizure , forensic इमेजिंग ( अधिग्रहण ) और विश्लेषण  of digital media and the production of a report into collected evidence .
As well as identifying direct evidence of a crime , digital forensics can be used to attribute evidence to specific suspects , confirm alibis or  कथन , determine intent , पहचानो स्त्रोत ( लिये उदाहरण , in कापीराइट  cases ) , or authenticate documents .
Investigations are much broader in scope than other areas of forensic analysis ( where the usual aim is to provide  जवाब to a श्रेणी of simpler सवाल ) प्रायः involving जटिल time-lines or hypotheses  .
A  तुलना of the chromaticities enclosed  by some color spaces .
A color model is an abstract mathematical model describing the way colors can be  represented as tuples of संख्याएँ , typically as तीन or चार मान or रंग components ( e.g . आरजीबी और cmyk हैं रंग मॉडल  ) .
However , a color model with no associated mapping function to an absolute color space is a more or  कम मनमानी रंग प्रणाली साथ no कनेक्शन to कोई  globally understood system of color interpretation .
Adding a certain mapping function between  the रंग मॉडल और a निश्चित सन्दर्भ रंग स्पेस परिणाम in a definite  `` footprint '' within the reference color space .
This ``  पदचिह्न '' is ज्ञात as a gamut , और , in संयोजन  with the color model , defines a new color space .
For example , Adobe RGB  और srgb हैं दो अलग निरपेक्ष रंग स्पेसेस , दोनो आधारित  on the RGB model .
In the most generic sense of the  परिभाषा ऊपर , रंग स्पेसेस can be पारिभाषित बगैर the  use of a color model .
These  स्पेसेस , ऐसे as pantone , हैं in प्रभाव a दिए नियत of names or संख्याएँ जिससे हैं पारिभाषित  by the existence of a corresponding set of physical color swatches .
This article  focuses on the गणितीय  model concept .
Labor Day is an American federal holiday observed on  the पहला सोमवार in सितंबर , कि मनाता the  economic and social contributions of workers .
Life insurance is a contract between an insured ( insurance policy holder ) and an insurer , where the insurer promises to pay a  designated लाभार्थी a योग of धन ( the `` लाभ '' ) upon the मौत of the insured व्यक्ति  .
Depending on the  अनुबंध , अन्य कार्यक्रम ऐसे as टर्मिनल बीमारी or नाजुक बीमारी  may also trigger payment .
the नीति होल्डर typically pays  a premium , either regularly or as a lump sum .
Other expenses ( such as  अंत्येष्टि खर्च ) हैं भी sometimes शामिल  in the benefits .
Life policies are legal  अनुबंध और the शर्तें of the अनुबंध describe the सीमाएं of the insured  events .
Specific exclusions are often written into the contract to limit the  देयता of the insurer ; आम उदाहरण हैं दावा relating to आत्महत्या , धोखाधड़ी , युद्ध  , riot and civil commotion .
Life-based  अनुबंध tend to पतन into दो  major categories:
Protection policies – designed to  provide a लाभ in the इवेंट of निर्दिष्ट इवेंट , typically a  lump sum payment .
A  आम रूप  of this design is term insurance .
निवेश नीतियों – जहाँ  the main objective is to facilitate the growth of capital by regular or single premiums .
आम फ़ॉर्म ( in the us  ) are whole life , universal life and variable life policies .
{ { Infobox  अवकाश
चाइनीज नई  Year
9 – 12 February (  वियतनाम )
Mitzi Gaynor Donahue ( born May 2 , 1962  in yorba लिंडा , नारंगी काउंटी , कैलिफ़ोर्निया ) is an अमरीकी अभिनेत्री  , also credited and more popularly known as Mitzi Kapture .
Kapture began her  करियर in films , सबसे of जिससे यहूद नहीं  huge commercial successes .
She went on to  मेक a few टेलीविज़न अतिथि दिखावे ( macgyver , 1st & टेन , और as a प्रतियोगी  on The $ 100,000 Pyramid ) before she gained international exposure with her first major television role as Sergeant Rita Lee Lance in the television series Silk Stalkings .
kapture 's भूमिका as रीता , the अन्य हाफ of  the two `` Sams '' for almost 5 years , cemented her popularity .
Paired with Rob Estes who played Sergeant  क्रिस lorenzo , kapture gained वैश्विक मान्यता साथ साथ उसके costar चूंकि the दिखाएँ थी  broadcast in several countries .
Sergeant Lance eventually became Lieutenant  तलवार by the समय kapture बाएँ the श्रेणी in 1995 to have  her first child Madison .
दौरान उसके समय साथ the श्रेणी , kapture briefly सत in  the director 's chair , for two episodes .
She was interviewed for the Silk  stalkings ऋतु 1 dvd जिससे थी वितरित  by Anchor Bay Entertainment and released in September 2004 .
After a short hiatus from the screen following her exit from Silk Stalkings ,  kapture लौटे in 1997 to the छोटी स्क्रीन और  USA Network .
She played lead roles in two USA Pictures  मूल telemovies , पूर्ण अपराधों ( आधारित on a सच्चा स्टोरी , भी पुकारा छुपा और तलाश  : The Joanne Jensen Story ) , which also starred Jasmine Guy and His Bodyguard .
She later starred in a few other independent film projects and  थिएटर प्रोडक्शन्स और था अनेक टेलीविज़न अतिथि दिखावे  .
Kapture also had a  पुनरावर्ती भूमिका  on Baywatch as Alexis Ryker .
She played Anita Hodges on The  यंग और the बेचैन इससे 2002 through 2004 , जहाँ वो थी credited as mitzi kapture donahue , और स्ट्रक्चर  in the made-for-TV movie Night of Terror which premiered March 26 , 2006 on Lifetime Network .
Her latest is  a supporting भूमिका in परमेश्वर 's कानों ,  released in 2007 .
Kapture is the  आधिकारिक हस्ती  spokesperson for the Xeroderma Pigmentosum Society .
The Xbox 360 is the second video game console  विकसित by और उत्पादित लिये microsoft और the successor  to the Xbox .
The  एक्सबॉक्स 360 competes साथ सोनी 's प्लेस्टेशन  3 and Nintendo 's Wii as part of the seventh generation of video game consoles .
As of  सितंबर 30 , 2012 , 70 लाख एक्सबॉक्स 360 consoles have  been sold worldwide .
The Xbox 360 was officially unveiled on MTV on May 12 , 2005 ,  साथ विस्तृत लॉन्च और खेल सूचना divulged बाद कि माह at the इलेक्ट्रॉनिक entertainment  Expo ( E3 ) .
The console sold out  completely upon रिलीज in सब regions  except in Japan .
Several major features of the Xbox 360 are its integrated Xbox Live service that allows players to compete online ; download arcade games , game demos ,  trailers , tv shows , म्यूज़िक और फिल्मों ; और इसके खिड़कियाँ मीडिया बीच मल्टीमीडिया सामर्थ्य  .
The Xbox Live  भी offers अभिगम to विभिन्न ( प्रायः region-specific  ) third-party media streaming applications .
At their E3 presentation on June 14 , 2010 ,  microsoft घोषित a redesigned एक्सबॉक्स 360  that would ship on the same day .
The redesigned console is slimmer than the previous  एक्सबॉक्स 360 मॉडल और सुविधाएँ एकीकृत 802.11 b/g/n wi-fi , toslink s/pdif ऑप्टिकल ऑडियो आउटपुट , पाँच usb 2.0  ports ( compared to the three from older versions ) and a special AUX port .
Older models of the  एक्सबॉक्स 360 have चूंकि महरूम discontinued  .
The  पहला नई कंसोल to be released सुविधाएँ a 250 gb मुश्किल ड्राइव  , while a later , less expensive SKU features 4 GB internal storage .
Backpack  may भी refer to a 2001  novel by Emily Barr
A  आधुनिक backpack
स्विस फौज backpack  ca . 1960
एकीकृत तुमको  frame .
A backpack ( also called rucksack , knapsack , packsack , pack ) is , in its simplest form , a cloth sack carried  on एक 's वापस और secured साथ दो straps कि go over the कन्धों ,  but there can be exceptions .
Lightweight types of backpacks are  sometimes worn on तभी एक कंधे डोरी  .
Backpacks are often preferred to handbags for carrying heavy loads or carrying any sort of  उपकरण , क्युकी of the सीमित क्षमता to carry भारी weights लिये long अवधि of समय  in the hands .
Large backpacks , used to  carry loads over 10 kg ( 22 पाउंड ) , प्रायः offload the largest भाग ( up to परिचय 90 % ) of उनके वज़न onto padded हिप बेल्ट  , leaving the shoulder straps mainly for stabilising the load .
This improves the potential to carry heavy loads , as the hips are  stronger than the कन्धों , और भी increases चपलता और संतुलन , चूंकि the लोड यात्राएँ nearer the wearer 's अपना बीच of  mass .
In ancient times , the  backpack थी प्रयुक्त as a अर्थात् to carry the शिकारी 's larger  game and other types of prey and as a way of easier transport for other materials .
In the cases of larger hunts , the hunters would dismember their prey and distribute the pieces of the  एनिमल around , प्रत्येक एक पैकिंग the मांस into अनेक wrappings और तब into बैग जिससे  they placed on to their backs .
The bag  itself थी बना up of अलग एनिमल छुपा और स्किन ( depending on कया sorts of पशु यहूद  in the area ) and sewn together by the intestines of said animals , which were woven together tightly to make a sturdy thread-like material .
Mexico ( ; ; ) , officially the United  मैक्सिकन राज्य ( ) , is a संघीय संवैधानिक गणतंत्र in उत्तर अमेरिका  .
It is bordered on the north by the United States ; on the south and west by the Pacific Ocean ; on the southeast by  ग्वाटेमाला , बेलीज़ , और the caribbean समुद्र ; और on  the east by the Gulf of Mexico .
Covering almost two million square kilometres ( over 760,000 sq mi ) , Mexico is the fifth largest country in  the americas by कुल क्षेत्रफल और the 13th largest स्वतंत्र स्वदेश in the संसार  .
साथ an अनुमानित जनसांख्यिकी of over 113 लाख , it is the संसार 's eleventh  most populous country and the most populous Spanish-speaking country .
Mexico is a federation  comprising thirty-one राज्य और a संघीय  District , the capital city .
In pre-Columbian Mexico many cultures matured into advanced civilizations such as the Olmec , the Toltec , the  teotihuacan , the zapotec , the माया और the एज़टेक पहले पहला सम्पर्क साथ europeans  .
In 1521 , Spain conquered and colonized the territory from  इसके आधार in méxico-tenochtitlan , जिससे थी administered as the  Viceroyalty of New Spain .
This territory would  आखिरकार become मैक्सिको following मान्यता of  the colony 's independence in 1821 .
The post-independence period was characterized by  आर्थिक अस्थिरता , the mexican-american युद्ध और  territorial cession to the United States , a civil war , two empires and a domestic dictatorship .
The latter led to the Mexican Revolution in 1910 , which culminated  साथ the promulgation of the 1917 संविधान और the emergence of the देश 's वर्तमान राजनैतिक प्रणाली  .
Elections held in July 2000 marked  the पहला समय कि an विपक्ष पार्टी जीती the प्रेसिडेंसी  from the Institutional Revolutionary Party .
Since 2006  the देश रै महरूम in the midst of a ड्रग  war which has caused 60,000 deaths .
Mexico has one of the world 's largest economies , and  is माना दोनो a क्षेत्रीय शक्ति और मध्य शक्ति  .
In addition , Mexico was the first Latin American member of the Organisation for Economic  co-operation और विकास oecd ( चूंकि  1994 ) , and considered an upper-middle income country by the World Bank .
Mexico is considered a newly  industrialized देश और an उभरते  power .
It has the fourteenth largest nominal GDP  और the eleventh largest जीडीपी by  purchasing power parity .
The economy is strongly  linked to those of इसके उत्तर अमरीकी फ़्री व्यापार अनुबंध  ( NAFTA ) partners , especially the United States of America .
Mexico ranks sixth in  the संसार और पहला in the americas by क्रमांक of युनेस्को संसार विरासत साइट साथ 31 , और in 2007 थी the दसवाँ सबसे  visited country in the world with 21.4 million international arrivals per year .
Babe Ruth holds the  एमएलबी करियर slugging  percentage record ( .690 ) .
In baseball statistics , slugging  प्रतिशत ( abbreviated slg ) is a लोकप्रिय माप of the  power of a hitter .
It is  गणना as कुल  bases divided by at bats :
where AB  is the क्रमांक of at-bats लिये a दिए खिलाड़ी , और 1b ,  2B , 3B , and HR are the number of singles , doubles , triples , and home runs , respectively .
Walks are  specifically excluded इससे इस गणना  .
For example , in 1920 ,  बेब रुथ निभाई उसके पहला ऋतु लिये the  New York Yankees .
In 458 at bats , Ruth had 172 hits , comprising 73 singles ,  36 युगल , 9 तिगुना , और 54 घर रनों , जिससे brings the कुल आधार गिनती to ( 73 × 1 )  + ( 36 × 2 ) + ( 9 × 3 ) + ( 54 × 4 ) = 388 .
His total number of bases ( 388 ) divided  by उसके कुल at-bats ( 458 ) is .847 , उसके  slugging percentage for the season .
The next year he slugged .846 , and these records went unbroken until 2001 , when Barry Bonds achieved 411 bases in  476 at-bats , bringing उसके slugging प्रतिशत to .863 , बेमेल  since .
is a role-playing video game developed and published by  वर्गाकार ( अभी वर्गाकार एनिक्स ) लिये the सुपर निन्टेंडो entertainment प्रणाली  in 1995 .
Chrono Trigger 's development team included three designers that Square  उतावले the `` सपना टोली '' : hironobu sakaguchi , the निर्माता of वर्गाकार 's फाइनल काल्पनिक श्रेणी ; yuji horii , a freelance पंक्तियां और निर्माता of एनिक्स 's लोकप्रिय  Dragon Quest series ; and Akira Toriyama , a freelance manga artist famed for his work with Dragon Quest and Dragon Ball .
Kazuhiko Aoki produced the game , Masato Kato wrote  सबसे of the प्लाट , जबकि composer yasunori mitsuda scored सबसे of the खेल पहले गिरना बीमार और deferring  remaining tracks to Final Fantasy composer Nobuo Uematsu .
The game 's story  फ़ॉलो a समूह of adventurers जो  travel through time to prevent a global catastrophe .
Square  re-released a ported संस्करण by tose in जापानी लिये सोनी 's प्लेस्टेशन in 1999 , बाद repackaged साथ a फाइनल काल्पनिक iv बंदरगाहों as फाइनल काल्पनिक क्रॉनिकल्स  in 2001 for the North American market .
A slightly  उन्नत chrono ट्रिगर थी released लिये the निन्टेंडो ds on नवम्बर 25 , 2008 , in उत्तर अमेरिका और जापानी , और  went on sale in Australia on February 3 , 2009 and in Europe on February 6 , 2009 .
The game  थी never released in pal territories पहले the  Nintendo DS version .
Chrono Trigger was a critical and commercial success upon release and is  माना आज to be एक of the महानतम  video games of all time .
Nintendo Power magazine described aspects of Chrono Trigger as  क्रांतिकारी , सहित इसके अनेक endings , plot-related sidequests focusing on अक्षर  development , unique battle system , and detailed graphics .
Chrono Trigger was the third best-selling game of 1995 , and the game 's  snes और प्लेस्टेशन iterations  have shipped 2.65 million copies as of March 2003 .
the संस्करण लिये the निन्टेंडो ds बेची  790,000 copies as of March 2009 .
Chrono Trigger was also  ported to मोबाईल फोन , आभासी कंसोल ,  the PlayStation Network ( only in the USA ) , iOS devices , and Android devices .
बकरी चीज
Goat cheese , or chèvre (  इससे the फ्रेंच शब्द लिये बकरी ) , is  cheese made out of the milk of goats .
Hyperthermia is elevated body temperature due to  विफल thermoregulation कि occurs जब a देह produces  or absorbs more heat than it dissipates .
Extreme  तापमान उन्नयन तब becomes a चिकित्सा आपात requiring तात्कालिक  treatment to prevent disability or death .
The most common  कल्याणकारी शामिल ऊष्मा स्ट्रोक और प्रतिकूल  reactions to drugs .
The former is an acute temperature elevation caused by exposure to excessive heat , or  संयोजन of ऊष्मा और आर्द्रता , कि overwhelms  the heat-regulating mechanisms .
The latter is a  अपेक्षाकृत विरल पक्ष प्रभाव of अनेक दवाएँ , विशेषकर those  that affect the central nervous system .
Malignant hyperthermia is a rare  complication of कुछ प्रकार of सामान्य एनेस्थीसिया  .
Hyperthermia can also be deliberately induced using drugs or medical devices and may be used in the treatment  of कुछ kinds of कर्कट और अन्य शर्तें , सबसे commonly in संयोजन साथ  radiotherapy .
Hyperthermia differs from fever in that the  देह 's तापमान नियत पाइंट  remains unchanged .
The opposite  is hypothermia , जिससे occurs जब the तापमान बूंदें  below that required to maintain normal metabolism .
Belize , is a country located  on the northeastern coast of सेंट्रल अमेरिका  .
It is the only country in the area where English is the  आधिकारिक भाषा , हालांकि kriol और स्पेनी हैं अधिक commonly  spoken .
Belize is bordered on the  उत्तर by मैक्सिको , to the दक्षिण और  west by Guatemala and to the east by the Caribbean Sea .
इसके मेनलैंड  is about long and wide .
With of land and a population of only 312,698 inhabitants ( 2010 census ) ,  बेलीज़ possesses the न्यूनतम जनसांख्यिकी घनत्व in सेंट्रल  America .
the देश 's जनसांख्यिकी विकास रेट of 3.15 % (  2012 est . ) is the second highest in the region and one of the highest in the western hemisphere .
Belize 's abundance of terrestrial and marine species , and its diversity of  ecosystems दे it a कुंजी प्लेस भीतर the globally significant mesoamerican  Biological Corridor .
Belize has  a विविध समाज , comprising अनेक संस्कृतियों  and languages .
It is the only nation in the region with a British colonial heritage , but as a part of the Western  caribbean मण्डल , it भी साझा a आम विरासत साथ the fellow anglophone  Caribbean countries .
In general , Belize is  माना to be a सेंट्रल अमरीकी और caribbean स्वदेश साथ दमदार  ties to both the Caribbean and Latin America .
Belize is a member of the Caribbean Community ( CARICOM ) , the Community of Latin American and Caribbean States  ( celac ) , और सेंट्रल अमरीकी संयोजन प्रणाली  ( SICA ) .
Belize is known for its September  जश्न , और is the जन्मस्थान of चबाने गम और punta  Rock .
the `` बेट्सी  Ross '' flag
A `` Betsy Ross '' flag flying  बाहर सैन फ्रांसिस्को नगर हॉल
The Betsy Ross flag is an early design of the flag of the United States , popularly  attributed to बेट्सी रॉस , using the आम motifs of प्रत्यावर्ती red-and-white धारीदार फ़ील्ड साथ five-pointed सितारों in a  blue canton .
The flag was designed during the  अमरीकी क्रान्ति और सुविधाएँ 13 सितारों to represent the असली  13 colonies .
the distinctive विशेषता of the रॉस ध्वज  is the arrangement of the stars in a circle .
Although the Betsy Ross  स्टोरी is स्वीकृत by सबसे अमेरिकी , कुछ ध्वज  historians and revisionists do not accept the Betsy Ross design as the first American flag .
According to the traditional account , the original flag was made in June 1776 , when a small committee—including  जार्ज वॉशिंगटन , रॉबर्ट मॉरिस और सापेक्ष जार्ज रॉस —visited बेट्सी और discussed the need लिये  a new American flag .
Betsy accepted the  जॉब to manufacture the ध्वज , altering the कमेटी  's design by replacing the six-pointed stars with five-pointed stars .
While the Betsy Ross legend is questionable , the flag  डिज़ाइन is ज्ञात to have महरूम in उपयोग by 1777 ; अल्फ्रेड b . गली वर्णित it at the आत्मसमर्पण of सामान्य  Burgoyne and understood the circle of stars to represent equality among the American states .
It is one of the  oldest संस्करण of u.S. ध्वज ज्ञात to मौजूद ; जबकि it is नहीं the oldest surviving ध्वज centuries in cloth रूप , इसके likeness appears on पुरानी  physical relics , namely , the contemporary battlefield paintings by John Trumbull and Charles Willson Peale .
They depict the circular star arrangement being flown from ship masts and many other places , and thus  provide the पहला ज्ञात ऐतिहासिक दस्तावेज़ीकरण of the  flag 's appearance .
The seal of the  u.S. विभाग of दिग्गजों अफेयर्स उपयोग the बेट्सी रॉस ध्वज to represent सेवा  to all veterans from the American Revolution to the present day .
The Betsy Ross design of 13-star US flags has been featured in many popular artworks ( sometimes  inaccurately , as in वॉशिंगटन क्रासिंग the डेलावेयर ) और films , ऐसे as the 1960 संस्करण  of Pollyanna .
The flag continues  to be एक of the सबसे  popular symbols of the American Revolution .
A purr is a sound made by all species  of felids और is a भाग of बिल्ली संचार  .
It varies between cats ( for example by loudness and tone ) , and from species to  प्रजाति , लकिन can be characterized as a tonal गुलजार  .
The  पद `` purring '' रै महरूम प्रयुक्त liberally in साहित्य , और it रै महरूम claimed  that viverrids ( civet , mongoose , genet ) , bears , badgers , hyaenas ( et cetera ) purr .
Other animals that have been said to purr are rabbits ,  squirrels , गिनी सूअर , tapirs , ring-tailed lemurs , हाथियों  , raccoons and gorillas while eating .
However , using a strict definition of purring that continuous sound production must alternate between pulmonic egressive and ingressive airstream ( and usually go on for  मिनट्स ) , पीटर्स ( 2002 ) , in an विस्तृत पुनर्विलोकन of the वैज्ञानिक साहित्य , पहुँचे the निष्कर्ष कि जबतक तब तभी ‘purring cats’ ( फ़ेलिडाए  ) and two species of genets , Genetta tigrina , and most likely also Genetta genetta , had been documented to purr .
The platypus (  ornithorhynchus anatinus ) is a semiaquatic स्तनधारी endemic to  eastern Australia , including Tasmania .
Together with the  चार प्रजाति of एकिडना , it is एक of the पाँच extant प्रजाति of monotremes  , the only mammals that lay eggs instead of giving birth .
It is the sole living  प्रतिनिधि of इसके परिवार ( ornithorhynchidae ) और genus (  Ornithorhynchus ) , though a number of related species have been found in the fossil record .
The unusual  रूप of इस egg-laying , बतख -billed , बीवर -tailed , otter -footed स्तनधारी मनोरथ यूरोपीय naturalists जब वे  first encountered it , with some considering it an elaborate fraud .
It is one of the few venomous  स्तनधारियों , the पुरूष platypus having a spur on the हिन्द पैर कि delivers a venom  capable of causing severe pain to humans .
The unique features of  the platypus मेक it an महत्वपूर्ण विषय in the पढ़ाई of विकासवादी जीवविज्ञान और a recognisable और iconic  symbol of Australia ; it has appeared as a mascot at national events and is featured on the reverse of its 20-cent coin .
The platypus is the animal  emblem of the राज्य of नई दक्षिण वेल्स  .
जबतक the जल्दी 20th सदी , it थी hunted लिये इसके फर  , but it is now protected throughout its range .
Although captive breeding programmes  have था तभी सीमित कामयाबी और the platypus is vulnerable to the प्रभाव of प्रदूषण  , it is not under any immediate threat .
St. Elizabeth is a village in  मिलर काउंटी , मिसौरी , संयुक्त  States .
The  जनसांख्यिकी थी 336 at the 2010  census .
Wilton is a census-designated  प्लेस ( cdp ) in sacramento काउंटी , कैलिफ़ोर्निया  , United States .
It is part of the Sacramento –  arden-arcade – roseville महानगर सांख्यिकीय  Area .
The population was 5,363 at the 2010 census , up from 4,551  at the 2000 जनसांख्यिकी  .
In human-computer interaction , cut and paste and copy and paste  हैं सम्बन्धित कमांड कि प्रस्ताव a user-interface बातचीत  technique for transferring text , data , files or objects from a source to a destination .
Most  ubiquitously , उपयोक्ता आवश्यकता the क्षमता to  cut and paste sections of plain text .
The cut command removes the selected data from its original position , while  the नक़ल कमांड creates a नकल ; in दोनो मामले the चयनित आंकड़ा is लगाई in a clipboard  .
The data in the clipboard is later  inserted in the स्थिति जहाँ the  paste command is issued .
The command names are an  इंटरफ़ेस रूपक आधारित on the शारीरिक कार्यविधि  used in manuscript editing to create a page layout .
This interaction technique has close associations with  सम्बन्धित तकनीकों in आलेखीय उपयोक्ता अंतरफलक कि उपयोग इंगित डिवाइस  such as a computer mouse ( by drag and drop , for example ) .
Economic order  मात्रा is the अनुक्रम मात्रा कि  minimizes total inventory holding costs and ordering costs .
It is  एक of the oldest शास्त्रीय  production scheduling models .
The framework used to determine this order quantity is also known  as barabas eoq मॉडल or barabas सूत्र  .
The model was developed by Ford W. Harris in 1913 , but R. H. Wilson , a consultant  जो लागू it extensively , is दिए क्रेडिट  for his in-depth analysis .
Stephen ``  स्टीवी '' रे vaughan ( अक्तूबर 3 , 1954 – अगस्त 27 , 1990 ) थी an अमरीकी  guitarist , singer-songwriter , and record producer .
Often referred to by his  आद्याक्षर srv , vaughan is बेहतरीन ज्ञात as a founding  member and leader of Double Trouble .
Together with drummer Chris Layton and bassist  टॉमी शैनन , वे ignited the ब्लूज़ पुनरुद्धार  of the 1980s .
With a career spanning seven years , Vaughan and Double Trouble  consistently बेची आउट कॉन्सर्ट जबकि उनके एल्बम अक्सर गई  gold .
He was born and raised in  डलास , टेक्सास , और लिये a छोटी काल  of time lived in Graham , Texas .
As the  younger bhai of jimmie vaughan , vaughan प्रारंभ playing the गिटार at आयु  seven and formed several bands that occasionally performed in local nightclubs .
At age 17 , he dropped out of  ऊँची स्कूल और स्थानांतरित to ऑस्टिन to further pursue उसके musical करियर  , joining groups such as Krackerjack , the Nightcrawlers , and the Cobras .
In 1977 , he formed Triple Threat Revue , a band  कि आखिरकार विकसित into दोगुना ट्रबल और  regularly performed around Austin .
In 1982 ,  vaughan और दोगुना ट्रबल performed at the montreux जैज़ पर्व  in Switzerland , catching the attention of musicians David Bowie and Jackson Browne .
Bowie asked Vaughan to play on his upcoming studio album Let 's  नृत्य , जबकि browne offered the बैंड फ़्री उपयोग of उसके निजी स्टुडियो in लॉस एंजिल्स  to record an album .
In March 1983 , Vaughan and Double Trouble were signed to Epic Records by veteran record producer John  हैमंड sr. और released उनके डेब्यू एल्बम , टेक्सास बाढ़ in जून of कि  year .
After successful touring , the group released the albums , Could n't  स्टैंड the मौसम ( 1984 ) और आत्मा to आत्मा ( 1985 ) , the latter of जिससे प्रदर्शित  new keyboardist Reese Wynans .
Although his career had progressed successfully , Vaughan checked into a  पुनर्वास हॉस्पिटल in अटलांटा , जॉर्जिया to दे up a कोका और दारू आदत और लौटे to touring  with the band .
In June 1989 , In Step was released and earned them a  ग्रैमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन समकालीन ब्लूज़ प्रदर्शन  .
On August 27 , 1990 , Vaughan was killed in a  हेलीकाप्टर क्रैश following a प्रदर्शन in  East Troy , Wisconsin .
vaughan 's uniquely eclectic yet तीव्र स्टाइल  was derived from a variety of musical genres .
He was  बहकावे by ब्लूज़ संगीतकारों सहित अल्बर्ट किंग , फ्रेडी किंग , ओटिस फटाफट ,  and Muddy Waters , and rock guitarists such as Jimi Hendrix and Lonnie Mack .
His guitar playing reflected the  क्लासिक ब्लूज़ और pentatonic  scales .
he रै प्राप्त चौड़ी नाजुक मान्यता  for his guitar playing , ranking at # 6 on Rolling Stones list of `` 100 Greatest Guitarists '' in 2011 .
He was posthumously inducted into the  ब्लूज़ हॉल of कीर्ति in 2000 और a मेमोरियल प्रतिमा थी erected in ऑस्टिन 's ऑडिटोरियम  Shores park .
Stevie Ray Vaughan  is widely माना to be एक of the महानतम संगीतकारों to  come from the state of Texas .
The Las Vegas  स्ट्रिप संसार of coca-cola संग्रहालय in 2003
Coca-Cola is a carbonated soft drink sold in stores , restaurants ,  और वेंडिंग मशीने in प्रत्येक देश मगर  Cuba and North Korea .
It is produced by The  coca-cola कम्पनी of अटलांटा , जॉर्जिया , और is प्रायः referred to बस  as Coke ( a registered trademark of The Coca-Cola Company in the United States since March 27 , 1944 ) .
Originally intended as a patent medicine when it was invented in the late 19th  सदी by जॉन pemberton , coca-cola थी खरीदा  out by businessman Asa Griggs Candler , whose marketing tactics led Coke to its dominance of the world soft-drink market throughout the 20th century .
The company produces concentrate , which  is तब बेची to licensed coca-cola bottlers throughout  the world .
The bottlers , who hold territorially  विशेष अनुबंध साथ the कम्पनी , उपज समाप्त उत्पाद in डिब्बे और बोतलों इससे the concentrate  in combination with filtered water and sweeteners .
The bottlers then sell ,  वितरित और merchandise coca-cola to खुदरा स्टोर्स  and vending machines .
Such bottlers include Coca-Cola  उद्यमों , जिससे is the largest सिंगल coca-cola bottler in उत्तर अमेरिका  and western Europe .
The  coca-cola कम्पनी भी बिकता concentrate लिये सोडा स्रोतों to  major restaurants and food service distributors .
The Coca-Cola  कम्पनी रै , on अवसर , introduced अन्य  cola drinks under the Coke brand name .
The most common of these is Diet Coke  , साथ अन्य सहित caffeine-free coca-cola , आहार कोक caffeine-free , coca-cola चेरी , coca-cola  Zero , Coca-Cola Vanilla , and special versions with lemon , lime or coffee .
Based on Interbrand  's बेहतरीन वैश्विक ब्रांड 2011 , coca-cola  was the world 's most valuable brand .
Barry Louis  larkin ( born अप्रैल 28 , 1964 ) is a रिटायर्ड  Major League Baseball player .
Larkin played shortstop for the Cincinnati Reds  इससे 1986 to 2004 और थी एक of the pivotal खिलाड़ी on  the 1990 Reds ' World Series championship team .
Larkin was elected to the  नेशनल बेसबॉल हॉल  of Fame in January 2012 and was inducted on July 22 .
Larkin is considered one of the top players of his era ,  जीतना नौ चांदी slugger पुरस्कार और तीन  Gold Glove awards .
He was selected to the Major League All-Star Game twelve  टाइम्स , और थी निर्वाचित the 1995 नेशनल  League Most Valuable Player .
Brasília ( ) is the  संघीय पूंजी of ब्राज़ील और the सीट of सरकारी  of the Federal District .
Administratively , the  नगर is स्तिथ in the संघीय ज़िला जिससे  is in the Central-West Region .
Physically , it is  स्तिथ in the ब्राज़ीलियाई  Highlands .
It has a  जनसांख्यिकी of परिचय 2,562,963 ( 3,716,996 in the महानगर क्षेत्रफल ) as of the 2008  IBGE estimate , making it the fourth largest city in Brazil .
However , as a metropolitan  क्षेत्रफल , it बाँधने निम्नतर at छठे  in population .
Brasília is the largest  नगर in the संसार कि किया नहीं मौजूद at the शुरूआत of the  20th century .
brasília रै the पांचवां largest जीडीपी among  Latin American cities and the third in Brazil .
At around R $ 62,000 Brazilian  reais ( बराबर to लगभग $ 30,900 us डॉलर or €23,000 euros ) , the नगर  's per capita income is the highest among Brazil 's largest cities .
As the  नेशनल पूंजी , brasília is the सीट of सब तीन  branches of the federal government of Brazil .
The city also hosts the  मुख्यालय of अनेक ब्राज़ीलियाई कंपनियाँ  .
Planning policies such as the location of residential buildings  around expansive शहरी क्षेत्रों , as खूब as भवन the नगर around विशाल avenues और dividing it into सेक्टर  , have sparked a debate and reflection on life in big cities in the 20th century .
The city 's design divides it into  गिने ब्लॉक as खूब as सेक्टर लिये निर्दिष्ट क्रियाएँ , ऐसे as the होटल सेक्टर  , the Banking Sector or the Embassy Sector .
Brasília hosts 124 foreign  embassies  .
The city was planned and developed in 1956 with Lúcio Costa as the principal urban  प्लानर , ऑस्कर niemeyer as the प्रिंसिपल वास्तु और रॉबर्टो burle मार्क्स  as the landscape designer .
Brasilia is in the Unesco 's  संसार hertitage सूची due to इसके वास्तुकला  .
On April  22 , 1960 , it formally  became Brazil 's national capital .
Viewed from above , the main portion of the  नगर resembles an वायुयान or a  butterfly .
The city is commonly referred to  as पूंजी संघीय , or  simply BSB .
निवासियों of brasília हैं ज्ञात as brasilienses or candangos ( the latter  referring to those not born in the city but who migrated there after it was established ) .
In local usage , the word  `` brasília '' प्रायः refers तभी to the पहला प्रशासनिक प्रदेश ( ra i ) भीतर the संघीय ज़िला  ( Distrito Federal ) , where the most important government buildings are located .
Brasília has a unique status in Brazil , as  it is an प्रशासनिक प्रभाग बल्कि than a विधिक  municipality like nearly all cities in Brazil .
Nationally ,  the पद is लगभग सदा प्रयुक्त synonymously  with the Federal District , which constitutes an indivisible Federative Unit , analogous to a state .
Several `` satellite cities  '' मौजूद जिससे हैं भी भाग of  the Federal District .
Brasília  अंतरराष्ट्रीय विमानक्षेत्र is the प्रमुख विमानक्षेत्र in brasília  , connecting the capital to all major Brazilian cities and many international destinations .
It is the third most important airport in Brazil , in  शर्तें of यात्री और वायुयान आंदोलनों  .
Personifications of Germany , France , Russia ,  austria-hungary , और the संयुक्त किंगडम attempting to  keep the lid on the simmering cauldron of imperialist and nationalist tensions in the Balkans to prevent a general European war .
वे यहूद कामयाब in 1912 और 1913 लकिन  did not succeed in in 1914 .
The causes of World War I , which began in central Europe in late July 1914 and finished in 1918 ,  शामिल अनेक कारकों , ऐसे as the विरोध और दुश्मनी of the चार दशकों अग्रणी up to the  war .
Militarism ,  alliances , साम्राज्यवाद , और राष्ट्रवाद  played major roles in the conflict as well .
The immediate origins of the war  , however , lay in the निर्णय लिया by कूटनीतिज्ञों और सेनापतियों दौरान the संकट of 1914 , casus  belli for which was the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand ( the Archduke of Austria Hungary ) and his wife Sophie by Gavrilo Princip , an irredentist Serb .
The crisis came after a long and difficult series of diplomatic clashes between the Great Powers ( Italy , France , Germany , the  अंग्रेजों साम्राज्य , the austria-hungarian साम्राज्य और रूस ) over यूरोपीय और औपनिवेशिक मुद्दे in the दशक  before 1914 that had left tensions high .
In  फेरे ये राजनयिक clashes can be traced to परिवर्तन  in the balance of power in Europe since 1867 .
The more immediate cause for the  युद्ध थी तनाव over territory  in the Balkans .
Austria-Hungary competed with Serbia and Russia  लिये territory और influence in the प्रदेश और वे खींचा the बाकी of the ग्रेट  Powers into the conflict through their various alliances and treaties .
Although the chain  of कार्यक्रम unleashed by the हत्या triggered the युद्ध , the युद्ध 's origins go deeper , involving नेशनल राजनीती , संस्कृतियों , अर्थशास्त्र , और a जटिल वेब  of alliances and counterbalances that had developed between the various European powers since 1870 .
Some of the most important long term or  संरचनात्मक कल्याणकारी हैं : the विकास of राष्ट्रवाद आरपार यूरोपीय , अनसुलझे territorial विवादों , an intricate प्रणाली of alliances , the आभास विश्लेषण of the संतुलन of शक्ति in यूरोपीय , convoluted और fragmented शासन , the बाहें दौड़ of the पिछला दशकों  , previous military planning , imperial and colonial rivalry for wealth , power and prestige , and economic and military rivalry in industry and trade – e.g. , the Pig War between Austria and Serbia .
Other causes that came into play during the diplomatic crisis that  preceded the युद्ध शामिल misperceptions of intent ( e.g. , the जर्मनी विश्वास कि the संयुक्त किंगडम होता remain  neutral ) and delays and misunderstandings in diplomatic communications .
The various categories of explanation  लिये संसार युद्ध i correspond to अलग इतिहासकारों ' overall  methods .
Most historians and  लोकप्रिय टीकाकारों शामिल कल्याणकारी इससे अधिक than एक श्रेणी  of explanation to provide a rounded account of the causes of the war .
The deepest distinction among these  खाते is between कहानियां कि देखिए it as the अपरिहार्य और predictable निष्कर्ष of निश्चित कारकों ,  and those that describe it as an arbitrary and unfortunate mistake .
In attributing causes for the war , historians and academics  था to सौदे साथ an unprecedented बाढ़ of memoirs और आधिकारिक दस्तावेज़ , released  as each country involved tried to avoid blame for starting the war .
Early releases of information  by सरकारें , विशेषकर those released लिये उपयोग by  the `` Commission on the Responsibility of the Authors of the War '' were shown to be incomplete and biased .
In addition some documents  , विशेषकर राजनयिक केबल between रूस और फ़्रांस , यहूद मिला to have  been doctored .
Even in later decades however , when  much अधिक सूचना था महरूम released , इतिहासकारों इससे the वही संस्कृति have महरूम दिखाया to आइये  to differing conclusions on the causes of the war .
Johnson 's new chart  of नेशनल प्रतीक  , published c. 1868 .
The large flags shown in the corners are the  37-star ध्वज of the संयुक्त राज्य ( flown 1867-1877 ) , the royal मानक of the संयुक्त किंगडम , the रूसी इम्पीरियल मानक ,  and the French tricolore with inset Imperial Eagle .
Various other  ध्वज flown by जहाजों  are shown .
The Flag of Cuba is  labelled `` क्यूबन ( so पुकारा  ) `` .
The Chinese  ड्रैगन on the ध्वज of चीन थी  drawn mistakenly as a western dragon .
A national flag is a flag that  symbolizes a देश  .
The flag is flown by the  सरकारी , लकिन प्रायः can भी be flown by नागरिकों  of the country .
Both public and private buildings  ऐसे as स्कूलों और courthouses may मक्खी the नेशनल  flag .
in कुछ देशों , the नेशनल ध्वज हैं तभी  flown from non-military buildings on certain flag days .
There  हैं तीन पृथक प्रकार of नेशनल ध्वज लिये उपयोग on जमीन , और तीन  for use at sea , though many countries use identical designs for several ( and sometimes all ) of these types of flag .
The American Civil War ( ACW ) , also known as the War between the States or simply the  सिविल युद्ध ( देखिए नामकरण ) , थी a सिविल युद्ध लड़ा इससे 1861 to 1865 between the संयुक्त राज्य ( the `` संघ '' or the `` उत्तर '' ) और अनेक  Southern slave states that declared their secession and formed the Confederate States of America ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ) .
The war had  इसके उत्पत्ति in the समस्या of गुलामी , विशेषकर the एक्सटेंशन  of slavery into the western territories .
विदेशी शक्तियां किया नहीं intervene  .
After four years of bloody combat that left over 600,000 soldiers dead and  नष्ट much of the दक्षिण 's अवसंरचना , the confederacy collapsed , गुलामी थी abolished , और the मुश्किल पुनर्निर्माण प्रक्रम  of restoring national unity and guaranteeing rights to the freed slaves began .
In the 1860 presidential election , Republicans , led by  अब्राहम lincoln , opposed expanding  slavery into United States ' territories .
Lincoln won , but before his inauguration on March 4  , 1861 , सात cotton-based स्लेव राज्य formed the confederacy  .
Outgoing Democratic  अध्यक्ष जेम्स बुकानन और the आवक republicans  rejected secession as illegal .
Lincoln 's inaugural  पता घोषित उसके प्रशासन होता नहीं initiate  civil war .
Eight  बाकी स्लेव राज्य जारी to अस्वीकृत  calls for secession .
confederate शक्तियां जब्त numerous संघीय दुर्गों  within territory claimed by the Confederacy .
A Peace Conference failed to  ढूँढें a सुलह , और दोनो पहलू  prepared for war .
The Confederates assumed that European countries were so dependent on `` King  कपास `` कि वे होता intervene ; none किया और none पहचाना the नई  Confederate States of America .
hostilities began on अप्रैल 12 , 1861 , जब confederate  forces fired upon Fort Sumter , a key fort held by Union troops in South Carolina .
Lincoln called for each state to provide  सैनिकों to retake the फोर्ट ; नतीजतन , चार अधिक स्लेव राज्य joined  the Confederacy , bringing their total to eleven .
The Union soon controlled the border  राज्य और स्थापित a नवल नाकेबंदी कि  crippled the southern economy .
The Eastern Theater  थी inconclusive in  1861–62 .
the पतझड़ 1862 confederate अभियान into मेरीलैंड ( a संघ राज्य  ) ended with Confederate retreat at the Battle of Antietam , dissuading British intervention .
Lincoln issued the Emancipation  उदघोषणा , जिससे बना समाप्ति गुलामी  a war goal .
To the west , by summer 1862 the Union destroyed the Confederate river navy , then  much of उनके पश्चिमी सेना , और the संघ at vicksburg विभाजित the confederacy in दो at the मिसिसिपी  River .
In 1863 , Robert E. Lee 's  confederate incursion उत्तर  ended at the Battle of Gettysburg .
Western  सफलताओं led to ulysses S. ग्रान्ट कमांड  of all Union armies in 1864 .
In the Western Theater , William T. Sherman drove east to capture Atlanta and  marched to the समुद्र , destroying confederate अवसंरचना  along the way .
The Union marshaled the resources and manpower to attack the Confederacy from all  दिशानिर्देश , और could afford to लड़ो लड़ाइयों of अपघर्षण through the overland अभियान towards  Richmond , the Confederate capital .
The defending Confederate army  विफल , अग्रणी to ली 's आत्मसमर्पण to ग्रान्ट at appomattox  Court House on April 9 , 1865 .
The American Civil  युद्ध थी एक of the earliest  true industrial wars .
Railroads , the telegraph ,  steamships , और mass-produced हथियार यहूद  employed extensively .
The  mobilization of civilian कारखानों , खानों , shipyards , बैंको , परिवहन और  food supplies all foreshadowed World War I .
It remains the deadliest war in American history ,  resulting in the मौतों of an अनुमानित 750,000 सैनिको और an  undetermined number of civilian casualties .
Historian John Huddleston estimates  the मौत टोल at टेन प्रतिशत of सब उत्तरी males 20–45 सालो बूढ़ा ,  and 30 percent of all Southern white males aged 18–40 .
Norrie disease is a genetic  विकार कि primarily affects the नजर और लगभग  always leads to blindness .
In addition to the congenital ocular symptoms , some patients suffer from a progressive hearing loss  starting ज़्यादातर in उनके 2nd दशक of जीवन , जबकि another portion may be मानसिक  challenged .
Patients with Norrie disease may develop cataracts , leukocoria ( a condition where the pupils appear white when light is shone on  उन्हें ) , साथ साथ अन्य developmental मुद्दे in the नजर , ऐसे as shrinking of the ग्लोब और the बर्बाद  away of the iris .
around 30–50 % of उन्हें होगा भी have developmental डेलाy/ दिमागी retardation ,  psychotic-like features , incoordination of movements or behavioral abnormalities .
Most patients are born with normal hearing ; however ,  the onset of सुनना घाटा is बहुत आम in जल्दी किशोरावस्था  .
About 15 % of the patients are  अनुमानित to develop सब the सुविधाएँ of the  disease .
The disease  affects लगभग तभी पुरूष infants at जनम or जल्द बाद जनम , क्युकी the  disease is inherited X-linked recessive .
Only in very rare cases  , महिलाओं have महरूम diagnosed साथ  Norrie disease as well .
The  सटीक incidence क्रमांक is अनजान  ; only a few hundred cases have been reported so far .
It is a very rare disorder that is not associated with  कोई विशिष्ट जातीय or जातिगत  groups .
A contract is an  अनुबंध having a lawful ऑब्जेक्ट डाला into voluntarily by दो or अधिक  parties , each of whom intends to create one or more legal obligations between them .
The elements of a contract are `` offer '' and `` acceptance '' by  `` competent व्यक्तियों '' having विधिक क्षमता जो एक्सचेंज `` विचार '' to बनाएँ `` mutuality of दायित्व  . ''
Proof  of कुछ or सब of ये तत्व may be किया in लिखने , हालांकि  contracts may be made entirely orally or by conduct .
The  उपाय लिये उल्लंघन of अनुबंध can be `` क्षतिपूर्ति ''  in the form of compensation of money or specific performance enforced through an injunction .
Both of  ये remedies पुरस्कार the पार्टी at घाटा the `` लाभ of the सौदेबाजी ''  or expectation damages , which are greater than mere reliance damages , as in promissory estoppel .
The parties may be  प्राकृतिक व्यक्तियों or juristic व्यक्तियों  .
A  अनुबंध is a legally enforceable वादा  or undertaking that something will or will not occur .
The word promise can be  प्रयुक्त as a विधिक पर्याय लिये अनुबंध , हालांकि परवाह is जरूरी as a वादा may नहीं have the पूरा खड़ा  of a contract , as when it is an agreement without consideration .
Contract law varies greatly from  एक क्षेत्राधिकार to another , सहित मतभेद in आम विधि compared to सिविल विधि , the प्रभाव of  received law , particularly from England in common law countries , and of law codified in regional legislation .
Regarding Australian Contract Law for example , there are 40 relevant acts which  प्रभाव on the निर्वचन of अनुबंध at the राष्ट्रमंडल ( संघीय / नेशनल ) स्तर , और an अतिरिक्त  26 acts at the level of the state of NSW .
In addition there are 6 international instruments or conventions which are applicable for international dealings , such as the United  राष्ट्र सम्मेलन on अनुबंध लिये the अंतरराष्ट्रीय बिक्री of goods  .
ASP.NET is a  server-side वेब अनुप्रयोग फ्रेमवर्क designed लिये वेब विकास to उपज  dynamic Web pages .
It was developed by Microsoft to allow  प्रोग्रामर्स to निर्माण डायनेमिक वेब साइट , वेब अनुप्रयोग और  web services .
It was first released in January 2002 with version 1.0 of the .NET Framework  , और is the successor to microsoft 's क्रियाशील सर्वर पृष्ठों ( asp ) प्रौद्योगिकी  .
ASP.NET is built on the Common Language Runtime ( CLR ) , allowing  प्रोग्रामर्स to लिखें asp.net कोड using कोई समर्थित .neT भाषा  .
The ASP.NET SOAP extension framework allows  asp.net components to प्रक्रम साबुन संदेश  .
Lysergic acid diethylamide , abbreviated LSD or LSD-25 , also known as lysergide ( INN ) and colloquially as acid , is a semisynthetic psychedelic drug of the ergoline family , well known for  इसके मनोवैज्ञानिक प्रभाव जिससे can शामिल altered सोच प्रक्रियाओं , बंद और खोलें नजर visuals , synesthesia , an altered भाव of समय और आध्यात्मिक अनुभवों , as खूब as लिये इसके कुंजी भूमिका in 1960s  counterculture .
It is used  मुख्यतः as an entheogen , recreational  drug , and as an agent in psychedelic therapy .
एलएसडी is non-addictive , is नहीं ज्ञात to कारण दिमाग  damage , and has extremely low toxicity relative to dose .
However , adverse  मनोरोग प्रतिक्रियाएँ ऐसे as चिंता , paranoia , और delusions  are possible .
LSD  थी पहला synthesized by अल्बर्ट hofmann in 1938 इससे ergotamine  , a chemical derived by Arthur Stoll from ergot , a grain fungus that typically grows on rye .
The  छोटी रूप `` एलएसडी '' आता इससे इसके जल्दी कोड नाम lsd-25 , जिससे is an संक्षिप्त  for the German `` Lysergsäure-diethylamid '' followed by a sequential number .
LSD is sensitive to oxygen , ultraviolet light , and chlorine , especially in solution , though its potency  may पिछला लिये सालो if it is भंडारित दूर इससे लाइट और नमी at कम तापमान  .
In pure  रूप it is a colorless , गंधहीन , tasteless  solid .
LSD is typically delivered orally ,  प्रायः on a substrate ऐसे as absorbent blotter  paper , a sugar cube , or gelatin .
In its liquid  रूप , it can भी be administered by intramuscular or  intravenous injection .
LSD is  बहुत potent , साथ 20–30 μg ( micrograms  ) being the threshold dose .
New experiments with  एलएसडी प्रारंभ in 2009 लिये the पहला समय  in 40 years .
Introduced by Sandoz  laboratories , साथ trade-name delysid , as a ड्रग साथ विभिन्न मनोरोग उपयोग in 1947  , LSD quickly became a therapeutic agent that appeared to show great promise .
In the 1950s , officials  at the u.S. सेंट्रल प्रज्ञा एजेंसी ( सीआईए ) विचार the ड्रग might be लागू to दिमाग कंट्रोल और रासायनिक  warfare ; the agency 's MKULTRA research program propagated the drug among young servicemen and students .
The subsequent recreational use of the drug by youth  संस्कृति in the पश्चिमी संसार दौरान the 1960s led to a राजनैतिक  firestorm that resulted in its prohibition .
Currently , a number of organizations—including the  beckley न्यास , मानचित्र , heffter शोध संस्थान और the अल्बर्ट hofmann foundation—exist to निधि , प्रोत्साहित  and coordinate research into the medicinal and spiritual uses of LSD and related psychedelics .
The United States Navy 's Sea , Air  , जमीन टीमों , commonly ज्ञात as the नेवी seals , हैं the u.S. नेवी 's प्रिंसिपल खास  operations force and a part of the Naval Special Warfare Command and United States Special Operations Command .
``  मुहर '' is सदा capitalized in सन्दर्भ  to members of the Naval Special Warfare community .
The acronym is derived from their capacity to  operate at समुद्र , in the एयर , और on जमीन  .
seals हैं पुरूष सदस्यों  of the United States Navy .
An exchange  कार्यक्रम साथ the coast गार्ड , जिससे ग्रैजुएट  three Coast Guardsmen as SEALs , was suspended in 2011 .
The CIA 's highly secretive Special Activities  प्रभाग ( उदास ) और अधिक specifically इसके elite खास परिचालन  Group ( SOG ) recruits operators from the SEAL Teams .
Joint Navy  seals और सीआईए परिचालन go वापस to the famed macv-sog  during the Vietnam War .
This  सहयोग स्टिल exists आज और is देखी in the युद्धों  in Iraq and Afghanistan , and in the finding and killing of Osama bin Laden in Pakistan .
World population estimates from 1800 to 2100 , based  on un 2010 projections ( रेड , नारंगी , ग्रीन ) और us जनसांख्यिकी ब्यूरो ऐतिहासिक estimates  ( black ) .
Actual recorded  जनसांख्यिकी आंकड़े  are in blue .
According to the highest estimate , the world population may rise to 16 billion by  2100 ; according to the न्यूनतम अनुमान , it may मनाही to  6 billion .
The  संसार जनसांख्यिकी is the कुल क्रमांक  of living humans on Earth .
As of today , it is  अनुमानित to क्रमांक अरब by the संयुक्त राज्य जनसांख्यिकी ब्यूरो  ( USCB ) .
The USCB  estimates कि the संसार जनसांख्यिकी exceeded  7 billion on March 12 , 2012 .
According to a separate estimate by the United Nations Population Fund , it reached  इस पड़ाव on अक्तूबर 31  , 2011 .
The  संसार जनसांख्यिकी रै अनुभवी निरन्तर विकास चूंकि the समाप्त of  the Great Famine and the Black Death in 1350 , when it stood at around 370 million .
The  उच्चतम दरों of विकास – वैश्विक जनसांख्यिकी increases ऊपर 1.8 % प्रति साल – यहूद  seen briefly during the 1950s , and for a longer period during the 1960s and 1970s .
The growth rate peaked at 2.2 % in 1963 , and had  अस्वीकृत to 1.1 % by 2011 .
Total annual births were highest in the late 1980s at about 138 million , and are now  अपेक्षित to remain essentially निरंतर at उनके 2011 स्तर of 134 लाख , जबकि मौतों क्रमांक 56 लाख प्रति साल ,  and are expected to increase to 80 million per year by 2040 .
Current projections show a continued  बढ़ाएँ in जनसांख्यिकी in the निकट भविष्य ( लकिन a स्थिर मनाही in the जनसांख्यिकी विकास रेट ) , साथ  the global population expected to reach between 7.5 and 10.5 billion by 2050 .
Various longer-term estimates predict further  विकास , stagnation , or भी overall मनाही  in the global population by 2150 .
Some analysts have questioned the sustainability of further world population growth , citing the growing  pressures on the पर्यावरण , वैश्विक खाना आपूर्तियाँ  , and energy resources .
Memphis is a city in the southwestern corner of the U.S. state of  टेनेसी , और the काउंटी सीट of शेल्बी काउंटी .
The city is located on the 4th Chickasaw Bluff ,  दक्षिण of the संगम of  the Wolf and Mississippi rivers .
Memphis had a population of 672,277 in 2011 making it the largest city in the state of Tennessee  , the largest नगर on the मिसिसिपी नदी , the तीसरा largest in  the Southeastern United States , and the 20th largest in the United States .
The greater Memphis metropolitan area , including adjacent  काउंटी in मिसिसिपी और अरकंसास , था a 2010 जनसांख्यिकी  of 1,316,100 .
This makes Memphis  the दूसरी largest महानगर क्षेत्रफल in टेनेसी , surpassed  only by metropolitan Nashville , which has overtaken Memphis in recent years .
मेम्फिस is the youngest of  Tennessee 's major cities .
A resident of Memphis is referred to as a Memphian , and the Memphis region is known  , विशेषकर to मीडिया आउटलेट , as `` मेम्फिस &  The Mid-South `` .
The  cattenom नाभिकीय शक्ति संयंत्र  in France .
France  produces around तीन quarters of इसके  electricity by nuclear power .
The Grafenrheinfeld Nuclear  शक्ति संयंत्र in जर्मनी  .
Chancellor Angela Merkel 's coalition announced on May 30 , 2011 , that Germany’s 17 nuclear power stations will be  shut bas by 2022 , in a नीति reversal following जापानी 's फुकुशिमा daiichi  nuclear disaster .
Currently ,  68 रिएक्टरों हैं अंतर्गत  construction in 15 countries .
Nuclear power  स्टेशन operate in तीस देशों  .
In 2010 , before the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster , it was reported that an average of about 10 nuclear reactors were expected to become operational per year  , हालांकि according to the संसार नाभिकीय संघ , of the 17 civilian रिएक्टरों नियोजित to become operational between  2007 and 2009 , only five actually came on stream .
As of June 2011 ,  जर्मनी और स्विट्ज़रलैंड हैं phasing-out  nuclear power .
As of June 2011 , countries such as Australia , Austria , Denmark , Greece , Ireland ,  इटली , लातवियाई , liechtenstein , ध्वज , मलेशिया , माल्टा , नई जीलैंड , नार्वे और पुर्तगाल remain opposed  to nuclear power .
skeletal  muscles homo sapiens
This is a table of  मांसपेशियां of the इंसान anatomy  .
There are approximately 642 skeletal  मांसपेशियां भीतर the ठेठ इंसान , और लगभग प्रत्येक मांसपेशी constitutes एक भाग of  a pair of identical bilateral muscles , found on both sides , resulting in approximately 320 pairs of muscles , as presented in this article .
Nevertheless ,  the सटीक क्रमांक is मुश्किल to define क्युकी अलग स्त्रोत समूह मांसपेशियां differently , e.g  . regarding what is defined as different parts of a single muscle or as several muscles .
उदाहरण दायरा इससे  640 to 850 .
The muscles of the human body can  be categorized into a क्रमांक of समूह जिससे शामिल मांसपेशियां relating  to the head and neck , muscles of the torso or trunk , muscles of the upper limbs , and muscles of the lower limbs .
The action refers  to the कार्रवाई of प्रत्येक मांसपेशी इससे the मानक  anatomical position .
In  अन्य स्थितियाँ , अन्य क्रियाएँ  may be performed .
A reenactment of a  बैटल at फोर्ट फोस्टर , 1837 ( at hillsborough  River State Park )
The Seminole  युद्धों , भी ज्ञात as the फ्लोरिडा युद्धों , यहूद तीन विरोध in फ्लोरिडा between the seminole — the सामूहिक नाम  given to the amalgamation of various groups of native Americans and Black people who settled in Florida in the early 18th century — and the United States Army .
The First  seminole युद्ध थी इससे 1814 to 1819 ( हालांकि स्त्रोत differ ) , the दूसरी seminole युद्ध इससे 1835 to 1842 , और  the Third Seminole War from 1855 to 1858 .
The first  विरोध साथ the seminoles arose आउट of तनाव relating to सामान्य एंड्रयू  Jackson 's attack and destruction of Negro Fort in Florida in 1816 .
Jackson  भी attacked the स्पेनी  at Pensacola .
Ultimately , the Spanish Crown  ceded the उपनिवेश to संयुक्त राज्य  rule .
Orono is a town in  penobscot काउंटी , maine , संयुक्त  States .
It was first settled in  1774 और नामित in सम्मान of मुख्य जोसेफ orono of  the Penobscot Nation .
It is home to The  विश्वविद्यालयों of maine  .
the जनसांख्यिकी थी  10,362 at the 2010 census .
View  of the  pyramid
Luxor Las Vegas is a hotel and  कसीनो on the लास वेगास स्ट्रिप in स्वर्ग  , Nevada .
The 30-story hotel , owned and operated by MGM Resorts International ,  रै a कसीनो साथ over 2,000 स्लॉट मशीने और 87 तालिका  games .
In the 2008 to 2009  नवीकरण , it रै a नई , अत्यधिक आधुनिकीकरण , और समकालीन डिज़ाइन और contains a कुल of 4,400 कक्ष , सहित 442 suites , अस्तर the आंतरिक दीवारें  of a pyramid style tower and within twin 22-story ziggurat towers that were built as later additions .
The hotel is  नामित बाद the नगर of लक्सर ( प्राचीन thebes  ) in Egypt .
Luxor is  the दूसरी largest होटल in लास वेगास ( the largest होने the  MGM Grand ) and the eighth largest in the world .
As of 2010 , the Luxor has a 4 Key  दरजा इससे the ग्रीन कुंजी eco-rating कार्यक्रम , जिससे evaluates  `` sustainable '' hotel operations .
A pilot experiment , also called a pilot study , is a small scale  प्रारंभिक पढ़ाई conducted in अनुक्रम to evaluate feasibility , समय , लागत , प्रतिकूल कार्यक्रम  , and effect size ( statistical variability ) in an attempt to predict an appropriate sample size and improve upon the study design prior to performance of a full-scale research project .
Pilot studies ,  इसलिए , may नहीं be उचित  for case studies .
The Los Angeles Fire Department  ( lafd ) is the एजेंसी कि provides आग सुरक्षा और आपात  medical services for the city of Los Angeles .
It may be  unofficially referred to as the लॉस एंजिल्स नगर आग विभाग to फर्क it  from the Los Angeles County Fire Department .
The acre is a unit  of क्षेत्रफल प्रयुक्त in the इम्पीरियल और  U.S. customary systems .
An acre is about 40 %  of a हेक्टेयर – थोड़ा छोटी than  an American football field .
The acre is no longer commonly used , although a few notable exceptions include the United States , Australia ,  बर्मा और the संयुक्त किंगडम ( as of 2010 , the एकड़ is no longer officially प्रयुक्त in the संयुक्त किंगडम , हालांकि is स्टिल प्रयुक्त in रियल एस्टेट  descriptions ) .
It is  स्टिल प्रयुक्त , to कुछ extent  , in Canada .
The international symbol of the  एकड़ is ac , और is पारिभाषित as 1/640  of a square mile .
the सबसे commonly प्रयुक्त एकड़ आज is  the international acre .
In the United  राज्य दोनो the अंतरराष्ट्रीय एकड़ और  the slightly different US survey acre are in use .
The most common use of  the एकड़ is to माप tracts  of land .
One international acre is defined as  4046.8564224 वर्गाकार मीटर  .
During the Middle Ages , an acre was the amount of land that  could be plowed in एक दिन साथ a yoke of  oxen .
Pawnee initially refers to a Native  अमरीकी लोगों  and its language:
pawnee  people
pawnee भाषा
Pawnee is  भी the नाम of अनेक स्थान  in the United States:
Pawnee ,  इलिनोइस
pawnee ,  Kansas
Pawnee City  , नेब्रास्का
Pawnee ,  ओक्लाहोमा
pawnee , टेक्सास
Pawnee  नेशनल घासभूमि  , Colorado
pawnee township  ( disambiguation )
Pawnee County  ( बहुविकल्पी  )
pawnee  may also refer to:
Piper PA-25  pawnee , agricultural  aircraft
hiller vz-1 pawnee  , experimental aircraft
Pawnee , Indiana (  fictional नगर ) the fictional सेटिंग of the एनबीसी टेलीविज़न कॉमेडी  Parks and Recreation .
Broca 's  और wernicke 's  Areas
Language processing refers to the way human beings use words  to communicate विचार और जज्बात , और कैसा ऐसे संचार हैं processed  and understood .
Thus it is how the brain creates  और understands भाषा  .
Most recent theories consider that this  प्रक्रम is carried आउट entirely by और  inside the brain .
This is considered one of the most  characteristic abilities of the इंसान प्रजाति - शायद the सबसे characteristic  .
However very little is known  परिचय it और वहीँ is विशाल पैमाना  for research on it .
Most of the knowledge acquired  to तिथि on the विषय रै आइये इससे मरीजों जो have suffered कुछ प्रकार  of significant head injury , whether external ( wounds , bullets ) or internal ( strokes , tumors , degenerative diseases ) .
Studies have shown that most of the language  प्रसंस्करण कृत्यों हैं carried आउट in the दिमागी cortex .
The essential  फलन of the cortical भाषा क्षेत्रों  is symbolic representation .
Even though  भाषा exists in अलग फ़ॉर्म , सब of उन्हें हैं आधारित  on symbolic representation .
The  bugatti veyron eb 16.4 is a mid-engined ग्रैंड touring car , designed और विकसित by  the Volkswagen Group and manufactured in Molsheim , France by Bugatti Automobiles S.A.S .
The Super Sport version of the  veyron is the तीव्रतम street-legal उत्पादन car in the  world , with a top speed of .
The  असली संस्करण रै a शीर्ष  speed of .
It  थी नामित car of the दशक ( 2000–2009 )  by the BBC television programme Top Gear .
the मानक veyron जीती शीर्ष गियर्स बेहतरीन  Car Driven All Year award in 2005 .
On 6 April 2013 , Bugatti  नियत the रिकार्ड लिये the तीव्रतम roadster in the संसार साथ the veyron ग्रैंड खेल  Vitesse , reaching on average a top speed of .
The  veyron 's मुख्य पंक्तियां थी hartmut warkuss , और the exterior थी designed by jozef kabaň of volkswagen  , with much of the engineering work being conducted under the guidance of engineering chief Wolfgang Schreiber .
A  क्रमांक of खास विसंगतियाँ  have been produced .
In December 2010 , Bugatti began offering prospective  खरीदार the क्षमता to मनपसंद exterior और इंटीरियर्स रंग by using the veyron 16.4 configurator अनुप्रयोग on  the marque 's official website .
DVD is an optical disc storage  स्वरूप , invented और विकसित by फिलिप्स , सोनी  , Toshiba , and Panasonic in 1995 .
DVDs offer higher  भंडार क्षमता than कॉम्पैक्ट discs जबकि having  the same dimensions .
Pre-recorded DVDs are mass-produced using molding  मशीने कि physically स्टैम्प  data onto the DVD .
Such discs  हैं ज्ञात as dvD- rom , क्युकी  data can only be read and not written nor erased .
Blank recordable DVD discs ( DVD-R and DVD+R ) can be recorded once using a DVD recorder and then function as a DVD-ROM . Rewritable DVDs (  dvd-rw , dvd+rw , और dvd-ram ) can be अंकित और erased अनेक टाइम्स  .
DVDs are used in  dvd-video उपभोक्ता डिजिटल वीडियो स्वरूप और in dvd-audio  consumer digital audio format , as well as for authoring AVCHD discs .
DVDs  containing अन्य प्रकार of सूचना may be referred  to as DVD data discs .
What Chilli Wants is  an अमरीकी वास्तविकता श्रेणी on vh1 अभिनीत  Chilli , one-third of the Grammy Award -winning R & B trio TLC .
The show chronicles Chilli 's quest to find love with the  सहायता of tionna T. smalls , an लेखक और संबंध  coach .
The series premiered on  अप्रैल 11 , 2010 , और रै  since been renewed for a second season .
The  दूसरी ऋतु premiered on संडे  , January 2 , 2011 .
Peter Gene Hernandez ( born October 8 , 1985  ) , ज्ञात by उसके स्टेज नाम ब्रूनो मंगल , is an अमरीकी singer-songwriter  and record producer .
Raised in  होनोलूलू , हवाई , by a परिवार of संगीतकारों , मंगल began बनाना म्यूज़िक at a यंग आयु और performed in  various musical venues in his hometown throughout his childhood .
He graduated from high school and  तब स्थानांतरित to लॉस एंजिल्स , कैलिफ़ोर्निया , to pursue a musical  career .
Mars produced songs for other artists ,  joining उत्पादन टोली the smeezingtons  .
Mars had an unsuccessful stint with Motown Records ,  लकिन तब हस्ताक्षरित साथ अटलांटिक in 2009  .
He  became पहचाना as a सोलो कलाकार बाद  lending his vocals and co-writing the hooks for the songs `` Nothin ' on You `` by B.o.B , and `` Billionaire `` by Travie McCoy .
he भी co-wrote the हिट्स `` सही गोलाकार `` by flo rida featuring  Ke $ ha , and `` Wavin ' Flag `` by K'naan .
In October 2010 , he  released उसके डेब्यू एल्बम  , Doo-Wops & Hooligans .
anchored by the विश्वव्यापी number-one singles `` बस the  Way You Are `` and `` Grenade `` , the album peaked at number three on the Billboard 200 .
Mars was nominated for seven  grammys at the 53rd ग्रैमी पुरस्कार , जीतना बेहतरीन पुरूष पॉप गायन प्रदर्शन लिये ``  Just the Way You Are '' .
His  दूसरी स्टुडियो एल्बम , अपरंपरागत ज्यूकबॉक्स , थी  released on December 11 , 2012 .
Mars ' music is noted for displaying a wide variety  of शैलियाँ और प्रभाव , और contains तत्व  of many musical genres .
He has worked with an  assortment of कलाकारों इससे विभिन्न जाति  .
As a child , he was  अत्यधिक बहकावे by कलाकारों ऐसे as छोटी रिचर्ड , एल्विस प्रेस्ली और माइकल जैक्सन और होता प्रायः  impersonate these artists from a young age .
Mars  भी incorporates रेगी - और motown -inspired  sounds into his work .
Worldwide , Mars  became the best-selling डिजिटल  artist in 2011 .
He had three singles in the  शीर्ष टेन , सहित पहला प्लेस साथ `` बस the रास्ता तुम हैं '' , जिससे बेची  12.5 million copies .
Mars won Best International Male  सोलो कलाकार at the 2012 ब्रिट पुरस्कार  .
Bruno  मंगल रै बेची 6 लाख एल्बम  and 40 million singles worldwide as a singer .
Althought as a song-writer , producer  और सिंगर उसके कुल सिंगल डाउनलोड बिक्री surpass  100 million worldwide .
Bust of Zeus , Otricoli (  sala रोटोंडा , museo pio-clementino , वेटिकन  ) .
Greek  mythology is the देह of मिथकों और शिक्षाओं कि belong to the प्राचीन यूनानियों , concerning  their gods and heroes , the nature of the world , and the origins and significance of their own cult and ritual practices .
It was a part of the  धर्म in प्राचीन यूनानियों और is भाग of धर्म in आधुनिक यूनानियों  and around the world , known as Hellenismos .
Modern scholars refer to and study the myths  in an attempt to throw लाइट on the धार्मिक और राजनैतिक संस्थानों of प्राचीन यूनानियों और इसके सभ्यता  , and to gain understanding of the nature of myth-making itself .
Greek mythology is explicitly embodied in a large collection of narratives , and implicitly in  यूनानी representational कला , ऐसे as vase-paintings  and votive gifts .
Greek myth attempts  to बताइये the origins of the संसार , और विवरण the जीवनदान और adventures of a चौड़ी किस्में  of gods , goddesses , heroes , heroines , and mythological creatures .
These accounts initially were disseminated in an oral-poetic  परंपरा ; आज the यूनानी मिथकों हैं ज्ञात primarily इससे यूनानी साहित्य  .
The oldest  ज्ञात यूनानी साहित्यिक स्त्रोत , होमर  's epic poems Iliad and Odyssey , focus on events surrounding the Trojan War .
Two poems by Homer 's near  समकालीन hesiod , the theogony और the works और दिनों , contain खाते of the उत्पत्ति of the संसार , the उत्तराधिकार  of divine rulers , the succession of human ages , the origin of human woes , and the origin of sacrificial practices .
Myths are also preserved in the Homeric Hymns , in fragments of epic poems of the Epic Cycle , in lyric poems , in the works of the tragedians of the  पांचवां सदी bc , in कृतियाँ of विद्वानों और कवियों of the hellenistic आयु , और in ग्रन्थ इससे the समय of the रोमन साम्राज्य by लेखक ऐसे as  Plutarch and Pausanias .
Archaeological findings provide a principal source of detail about Greek mythology , with  देवताओं और नायक प्रदर्शित prominently in the सजावट  of many artifacts .
Geometric designs on pottery of the  आठवीं सदी bc depict दृश्यों इससे the trojan साईकिल as खूब  as the adventures of Heracles .
In the succeeding Archaic ,  शास्त्रीय , और hellenistic अवधि , homeric और विभिन्न अन्य पौराणिक दृश्यों  appear , supplementing the existing literary evidence .
Greek mythology has had an extensive influence on the culture , arts , and  साहित्य of पश्चिमी सभ्यता और remains भाग of पश्चिमी विरासत  and language .
Poets and artists from ancient  टाइम्स to the उपस्थित have निकला प्रेरणा इससे यूनानी mythology और have  discovered contemporary significance and relevance in the themes .
Mouth & MacNeal  in 1971
Mouth &  macneal थी a पॉप duo इससे  the Netherlands .
They are  बेहतरीन ज्ञात लिये उनके लाख selling  recording of `` How Do You Do `` .
The Boise State Broncos football program represents Boise State University in college football and compete  in the फ़ुटबॉल कटोरी subdivision ( fbs ) of प्रभाग i as a सदस्य of the पहाड़ वेस्ट सम्मेलन  .
They are  फिलहाल led by सिर कोच क्रिस petersen  and play their home games at Bronco Stadium .
The franc ( sign : Fr . or SFr . ; German : Franken  , फ्रेंच और romansh : फ़्रैंक , इतालवी : फ्रेंको ; कोड : chf ) is the करेंसी और विधिक टेंडर of स्विट्ज़रलैंड  and Liechtenstein ; it is also legal tender in the Italian exclave Campione d'Italia .
Although  नहीं formally विधिक टेंडर in the जर्मनी exclave büsingen ( the एकमात्र विधिक करेंसी  is the euro ) , it is in wide daily use there .
The Swiss National Bank issues banknotes and the  संघीय मिंट swissmint मुद्दे सिक्के  .
The Swiss  फ़्रैंक is the तभी संस्करण of the फ़्रैंक  still issued in Europe .
The smaller denomination , a hundredth of a franc , is a Rappen (  rp . ) in जर्मनी , centime ( c. ) in फ्रेंच , centesimo ( ct. ) in इतालवी , और रैप ( rp .  ) in Romansh .
The ISO code of  the करेंसी प्रयुक्त by बैंको और वित्तीय संस्थानों is chf ,  although `` Fr . '' is used by most businesses and advertisers ; some use SFr . ; the Latinate `` CH '' stands for Confoederatio Helvetica .
Given the different languages used in  स्विट्ज़रलैंड , लैटिन is प्रयुक्त लिये language-neutral inscriptions on the  coins .
Sir Charles Spencer `` Charlie ''  चैपलिन , ( 16 अप्रैल 188925 दिसम्बर 1977 ) थी a अंग्रेजों कॉमिक कर्ता और फिल्मकार जो  rose to fame in the silent era .
Chaplin became a  विश्वव्यापी प्रतीक through उसके स्क्रीन persona `` the ट्रैम्प `` और is माना एक  of the most important figures of the film industry .
His career spanned more than 75 years , from a child  in the विक्टोरियन era to बंद to उसके मौत at the आयु of 88 , और encompassed  both adulation and controversy .
Raised in London , Chaplin 's  बाल्यकाल थी पारिभाषित by गरीबी और hardship  .
He was sent to a workhouse twice before the  आयु of नौ ; उसके पिता थी अनुपस्थित , और उसके माँ थी वचनबद्ध to a दिमागी  asylum .
Chaplin began performing from a  यंग आयु , touring म्यूज़िक हॉल और बाद working as a  stage actor and comedian .
At 19 he was  हस्ताक्षरित to the prestigious फ्रेड karno कम्पनी , जिससे  took him to America .
Chaplin was scouted by the film industry ,  और बना उसके पहला दिखावे in 1914 साथ  Keystone Studios .
He  जल्द विकसित the ट्रैम्प persona  and formed a large fan base .
चैपलिन निर्देशित उसके films इससे an जल्दी स्टेज , और जारी to hone उसके शिल्प  as he moved to the Essanay , Mutual , and First National corporations .
by 1918 , he थी एक of the सबसे  famous men in the world .
In 1919 , Chaplin co-founded the  वितरण कम्पनी संयुक्त कलाकारों , giving उसे पूरा कंट्रोल over उसके films  .
His first feature-length  चित्र थी the बच्चा ( 1921 ) , followed by a स्त्री of पेरिस (  1923 ) , The Gold Rush ( 1925 ) , and The Circus ( 1928 ) .
He refused to move  to ध्वनि films in the 1930s , बजाय producing नगर लाइट्स ( 1931  ) and Modern Times ( 1936 ) without dialogue .
चैपलिन became increasingly राजनैतिक और उसके  next film , The Great Dictator ( 1940 ) , satirised Adolf Hitler .
The 1940s was a  दशक चिह्नित साथ विवाद लिये चैपलिन , और उसके लोकप्रियता अस्वीकृत  rapidly .
He was accused of communist sympathies  , जबकि उसके भागीदारी in a paternity सूट और विवाह  to much younger women were considered scandalous .
An FBI  छानबीन थी खोली on चैपलिन , और he थी आखिरकार मजबूर to छोड़ the संयुक्त  States and settle in Switzerland .
He abandoned the Tramp for  उसके बाद films , जिससे शामिल monsieur verdoux ( 1947 ) , limelight  ( 1952 ) , A King in New York ( 1957 ) , and A Countess From Hong Kong ( 1967 ) .
Chaplin wrote , directed , produced ,  संपादित , scored , और स्ट्रक्चर in सबसे of उसके films  .
He was a perfectionist , and his financial  स्वतंत्रता meant he प्रायः खर्च सालो on the विकास  and production of a picture .
His films are  characterised by slapstick संयुक्त साथ pathos , और प्रायः  feature the Tramp struggling against adversity .
Many contain social and political themes ,  as खूब as autobiographical  elements .
In 1972 , as part of a renewed appreciation for his work , Chaplin received an Honorary Academy Award  लिये `` the incalculable प्रभाव he रै था in बनाना गति तस्वीरें the  art form of this century '' .
He continues to be held in high regard , with The  सुनहरा फटाफट , नगर लाइट्स , आधुनिक टाइम्स , और the ग्रेट तानाशाह प्रायः क्रमित among the महानतम  films of all time .
Planned Parenthood Federation of America ( PPFA ) , commonly shortened to Planned  parenthood , is the u.S. संबद्ध of the अंतरराष्ट्रीय नियोजित parenthood संघ (  IPPF ) and one of its larger members .
PPFA is a  non-profit संगठन providing reproductive  health and maternal and child health services .
The Planned Parenthood Action Fund , Inc. ( PPAF ) is a related organization  जिससे lobbies लिये pro-choice विधान , व्यापक sex शिक्षा , और अभिगम to सस्ती स्वास्थ्य  care in the United States .
Planned Parenthood is the largest U.S.  प्रदाता of reproductive स्वास्थ्य सेवाएं , सहित कर्कट  screening , HIV screening and counseling , contraception , and abortion .
Contraception accounts for 35  % of ppfa 's कुल सेवाएं और abortions खाता लिये 3 % ; ppfa conducts roughly 300,000 abortions  each year , among 3 million people served .
The organization has its roots in Brooklyn , New  यॉर्क , जहाँ मार्गरेट सैंगर खोली the देश 's पहला birth-control क्लिनिक .
सैंगर संस्थापित the अमरीकी जनम कंट्रोल लीग in 1921 , जिससे  in 1942 became part of the Planned Parenthood Federation of America .
Since then , Planned Parenthood  रै grown to have over 820 क्लिनिक स्थितियाँ in the  U.S. , with a total budget of US $ 1 billion .
ppfa provides an सरणी of सेवाएं to over तीन लाख लोगों in the  United States , and supports services for over one million clients outside the United States .
Mens rea  is लैटिन लिये `` अपराधी  mind '' .
In criminal law , it is viewed as  एक of the जरुरी तत्व  of some crimes .
the मानक आम विधि परीक्षण of दण्ड देयता is प्रायः expressed in the लैटिन phrase , actus  non facit reum nisi mens sit rea , which means `` the act is not culpable unless the mind is guilty '' .
Thus , in jurisdictions with due process , there must be an actus reus , or `` guilty act , '' accompanied by some level of mens rea to constitute  the अपराधों साथ जिससे the प्रतिवादी is चार्ज ( देखिए the तकनीकी आवश्यकता  of concurrence ) .
As a general  नियम , दण्ड देयता करता नहीं संलग्न to  a person who acted with the absence of mental fault .
The exception  is सख्त देयता अपराधों  .
In civil law , it is usually not  जरुरी to prove a subjective दिमागी तत्व to स्थापित देयता  for breach of contract or tort , for example .
However , if a tort is intentionally committed or a contract is intentionally breached  , ऐसे intent may बढ़ाएँ the पैमाना of देयता as खूब as the माप of  damages payable to the plaintiff .
Therefore , mens rea refers to the  दिमागी तत्व of the अपराध कि accompanies  the actus reus .
In some  jurisdictions , the शर्तें पुरुषों rea और actus reus have महरूम  replaced by alternative terminology .
In Australia , for example , the elements of the federal offences are now  designated as `` दोष तत्व '' or `` दिमागी तत्व '' ( पुरुषों rea ) और `` शारीरिक तत्व '' or `` बाह्य  elements '' ( actus reus ) .
This  शब्दावली थी अपनाया to बदलें the अस्पष्टता  of the Latin terms with simple and accurate phrasing .
Ulysses S. Grant ( born Hiram Ulysses Grant ; April 27 , 1822 – July 23 , 1885 ) was the 18th President of the United States ( 1869–1877 )  following उसके अत्यधिक कामयाब भूमिका as a युद्ध सामान्य in the दूसरी हाफ  of the Civil War .
Under Grant , the Union Army defeated the Confederate military ; having effectively ended the war and secession  साथ the आत्मसमर्पण of रॉबर्ट E. ली 's फौज  at Appomattox .
As president he led the Radical Republicans in their  प्रयत्न to eliminate सब vestiges of confederate राष्ट्रवाद और गुलामी  .
Upset over  uncontrolled हिंसा in the दक्षिण और having desired to protect अफ़्रीकी अमरीकी  citizenship , President Grant effectively destroyed the Ku Klux Klan in 1871 .
Grant was  the पहला अध्यक्ष to स्थापित सिविल सेवा सुधार having निर्मित a two-year federally वित्तपोषित  Civil Service Commission in 1871 .
In terms of foreign policy , Grant revealed an `` unexpected capacity for deliberation and consultation ''  कि प्रचारित the नेशनल ब्याज  .
His reputation was marred by his repeated defense of corrupt  appointees , और by अमेरिका 's पहला औद्योगिक आयु आर्थिक अवसाद ( पुकारा the `` दहशत of 1873  `` ) that dominated his second term .
Although his  रिपब्लिकन पार्टी विभाजित in 1872 साथ reformers  denouncing him , Grant was easily reelected .
By 1875 the  रूढ़िवादी श्वेत दक्षिणी विपक्ष regained कंट्रोल of प्रत्येक राज्य in the दक्षिण और as he बाएँ the श्वेत  House in March 1877 his policies were being undone .
A career soldier , he graduated from the  संयुक्त राज्य सैन्य अकादमी at वेस्ट पाइंट और परोसा in the mexican–american  War .
When the Civil  युद्ध began in 1861 , ग्रान्ट प्रशिक्षित संघ स्वयंसेवी  regiments in Illinois .
In 1862 , as a general he fought a series of battles and was  प्रचारित to प्रमुख सामान्य बाद forcing the आत्मसमर्पण of a विशाल confederate फौज और gaining कंट्रोल of केंटकी और  most of Tennessee .
he तब led संघ शक्तियां to विजय बाद आरंभिक  setbacks in the Battle of Shiloh , earning a reputation as an aggressive commander .
In July 1863 , after a  long , जटिल अभियान , ग्रान्ट पराजित पाँच uncoordinated confederate  armies ( capturing one of them ) and seized Vicksburg .
This famous victory  दिया the संघ पूरा कंट्रोल  of the Mississippi River , split off the western Confederacy , and opened the way for more Union triumphs .
After another win at the Battle of Chattanooga in late  1863 , अध्यक्ष अब्राहम lincoln बना उसे लेफ्टिनेंट सामान्य और कमांडर of सब of the संघ  Armies .
As commanding general of the army , Grant  confronted रॉबर्ट E. ली in a श्रेणी of बहुत खूनी लड़ाइयों in 1864 ज्ञात as the overland अभियान  that ended with the bottling up of Lee at Petersburg , outside the Confederate capital of Richmond .
During the siege , Grant coordinated a series of devastating campaigns  शुभारम्भ by विलियम tecumseh शरमन , फिलिप sheridan , और जार्ज थामस .
Finally breaking through  ली 's trenches , the संघ फौज captured  Richmond in April 1865 .
Lee  surrendered उसके depleted शक्तियां to ग्रान्ट at appomattox  as the Confederacy collapsed .
हालांकि pro-confederate इतिहासकारों attacked ग्रान्ट as a निष्ठुर कसाई जो जीती  by brute force , most historians have hailed his military genius .
Grant 's two consecutive terms as President stabilized the nation  बाद the अमरीकी सिविल युद्ध और दौरान the turbulent पुनर्निर्माण काल कि followed  .
As president , he  enforced पुनर्निर्माण by enforcing सिविल अधिकारों  laws and fighting Ku Klux Klan violence .
Grant won passage of the Fifteenth  amendment ; giving संवैधानिक सुरक्षा  for African-American voting rights .
He used the army to build  the रिपब्लिकन पार्टी in the दक्षिण , आधारित on ब्लैक मतदाता ,  Northern newcomers ( `` Carpetbaggers `` ) and native white supporters ( `` Scalawags . '' )
As a result , African Americans were  represented in the u.S. कॉंग्रेस लिये the पहला समय in अमरीकी इतिहास in  1870 .
Reformers praised Grant 's Indian peace policy by having broken the deadlock on Indian appropriations in Congress , the  सृष्टि of the फलक of भारतीय commissioners to मेक सुधार सुझाव , और उसके enlistment of quaker protestants जो नियंत्रित  mid western Indian agencies , that effectively curbed Congressional patronage .
Grant remained determined in keeping  इंडियंस इससे होने exterminated इससे श्वेत settler  encroachment or by the U.S. military .
Grant 's reputation as president by 1875 was at an all-time high for his previous veto of the Inflation  विधेयक , the ड्योढ़ी of the resumption of specie अधिनियम , और सचिव bristow 's कामयाब छापे कि shut  down the Whiskey Ring .
Grant 's  विदेशी नीति , led by सचिव of राज्य हैमिल्टन मछली , implemented अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Arbitration , settled the Alabama Claims with Britain and avoided war with Spain over the Virginius Affair .
A jukebox is a partially  स्वचालित music-playing यंत्र , प्रायः  a coin-operated machine , that will play a patron 's selection from self-contained media .
The  क्लासिक ज्यूकबॉक्स रै बटन साथ अक्षर और संख्याएँ  on them that , when entered in combination , are used to play a specific selection .
A drug test  is a तकनीकी विश्लेषण of a biological नमूना – लिये उदाहरण मूत्र , बाल , रक्त , स्वेद  , or oral fluid / saliva – to determine the presence or absence of specified parent drugs or their metabolites .
Major uses of drug  परीक्षण हैं to detect the उपस्थिति of प्रदर्शन बढ़ाना steroids in खेल or लिये दवाएँ निषिद्ध  by laws , such as cannabis , cocaine and heroin .
A `` 10-panel urine  स्क्रीन '' consists of the following:
Amphetamines (  सहित methamphetamine  )
barbiturates
benzodiazepines
cannabinoids  ( THC )
कोका
methadone
methaqualone
Opiates ( Codeine , Morphine , Heroin ,  oxycodone , hydrocodone  , etc . )
phencyclidine (  PCP )
propoxyphene
Saturn V rocket , used for  the अमरीकी मानवयुक्त चंद्र  landing missions
Space exploration is  the डिस्कवरी और खोजी of बाहरी स्पेस by अर्थात् of स्पेस प्रौद्योगिकी  .
Physical exploration of space is conducted both by human  spaceflights और by रोबोटिक spacecraft  .
While the observation of  वस्तुएँ in स्पेस , ज्ञात as खगोलशास्त्र , predates विश्वसनीय अंकित इतिहास , it थी the विकास of विशाल और  relatively efficient rockets during the early 20th century that allowed physical space exploration to become a reality .
Common rationales for exploring space include advancing scientific research , uniting different nations , ensuring  the भविष्य अस्तित्व of मानवता और विकासशील सैन्य और रणनीतिक लाभ  against other countries .
Various  आलोचनाओं of स्पेस खोजी  are sometimes made .
Space exploration has often  महरूम प्रयुक्त as a प्रॉक्सी प्रतियोगिता लिये geopolitical rivalries  such as the Cold War .
The early era of space exploration was driven by a  `` स्पेस रेस `` between the सोवियत संघ और the संयुक्त राज्य , the लॉन्च of the पहला man-made ऑब्जेक्ट to कक्षा the धरती , the ussr 's sputnik 1 , on 4 अक्तूबर 1957  , and the first Moon landing by the American Apollo 11 craft on 20 July 1969 are often taken as the boundaries for this initial period .
The Soviet space program achieved many of the first milestones , including the first living being in orbit in  1957 , the पहला इंसान spaceflight ( यूरी गगारिन सवार वोस्तोक 1 ) in 1961 , the पहला spacewalk ( by aleksei leonov ) on 18 कूच 1965 ,  the first automatic landing on another celestial body in 1966 , and the launch of the first space station ( Salyut 1 ) in 1971 .
After the first 20 years of  खोजी , फ़ोकस shifted इससे one-off फ़्लाइट to बेदर्दी हार्डवेयर , ऐसे as the स्पेस  Shuttle program , and from competition to cooperation as with the International Space Station ( ISS ) .
With  the substantial पूर्णता of the iss following sts-133  in March 2011 , plans for space exploration by the USA remain in flux .
Constellation , a  बुश प्रशासन कार्यक्रम लिये a वापसी to the चंद्रमा by 2020 थी judged inadequately वित्तपोषित  and unrealistic by an expert review panel reporting in 2009 .
The Obama Administration proposed a revision of Constellation  in 2010 to फ़ोकस on the विकास of the काबिलियत लिये crewed मिशन परे कम धरती कक्षा ( leo ) , envisioning extending the आपरेशन of the  ISS beyond 2020 , transferring the development of launch vehicles for human crews from NASA to the private sector , and developing technology to enable missions to beyond LEO , such as Earth/Moon L1 , the Moon , Earth/Sun L2 , near-earth asteroids , and Phobos or Mars orbit .
As of March 2011 , the US Senate and House of  प्रतिनिधि हैं स्टिल working towards a सुलह नासा funding विधेयक , जिससे होगा  probably terminate Constellation and fund development of a heavy lift launch vehicle ( HLLV ) .
In the 2000s  , the लोगों 's गणतंत्र of चीन initiated a कामयाब मानवयुक्त spaceflight  program , while the European Union , Japan , and India have also planned future manned space missions .
चीन , रूस , जापानी , और इण्डिया have advocated मानवयुक्त मिशन to the चंद्रमा दौरान the  21st century , while the European Union has advocated manned missions to both the Moon and Mars during the 21st century .
From the 1990s onwards , private  रूचि began promoting स्पेस पर्यटन और तब निजी  space exploration of the Moon ( see Google Lunar X Prize ) .
John Calvin Coolidge , Jr. (  जुलाई 4 , 1872january 5 , 1933 ) थी the 30th अध्यक्ष  of the United States ( 1923–1929 ) .
A  रिपब्लिकन वकील इससे वर्मांट , कूलिज worked उसके रास्ता up the सीढ़ियाँ of मैसाचुसेट्स  state politics , eventually becoming governor of that state .
His conduct during the Boston Police Strike  of 1919 thrust उसे into the नेशनल स्पॉटलाइट और दिया उसे a प्रतिष्ठा as  a man of decisive action .
Soon after , he was elected as the 29th Vice President in  1920 और succeeded to the प्रेसिडेंसी upon the अचानक मौत of वारेन  G. Harding in 1923 .
निर्वाचित in उसके अपना सही in 1924 , he gained a प्रतिष्ठा  as a small-government conservative , and also as a man who said very little .
Coolidge restored public confidence in the White  हाउस बाद the घोटालों of उसके पूर्ववर्ती 's प्रशासन , और बाएँ दफ्तर साथ considerable  popularity .
As a Coolidge biographer put it , `` He embodied the spirit and hopes of the  मध्य क्लास , could interpret उनके longings और एक्स्प्रेस  their opinions .
That he did  represent the प्रतिभाशाली of the औसत is the  most convincing proof of his strength . ''
Some later criticized Coolidge as part of  a सामान्य आलोचना of laissez-faire सरकारी  .
His  प्रतिष्ठा underwent a पुनर्जागरण दौरान the रोनाल्ड reagan प्रशासन , लकिन the परम मूल्यांकन of उसके प्रेसिडेंसी  is still divided between those who approve of his reduction of the size of government programs and those who believe the federal government should be more involved in regulating and controlling the economy .
Espresso is a concentrated beverage brewed by forcing a small  राशि of nearly खौलते जल अंतर्गत दबाव through  finely ground coffee beans .
Espresso often has a  thicker संगति than कॉफी brewed by अन्य विधि , a उच्चतर विशेषज्ञता of निलंबित और dissolved solids , और crema  ( meaning cream , but being a reference to the foam with a creamy texture that forms as a result of the pressure ) .
as a परिणाम of the pressurized brewing प्रक्रम the जायका और रसायन  in a typical cup of espresso are very concentrated .
Espresso is the base for other drinks , such as a latte  , कापुचीनो , macchiato , मोचा  , or americano .
Espresso  रै अधिक कैफीन प्रति ईकाई आवाज़ than सबसे पेय , लकिन  the usual serving size is smaller—a typical 60 mL ( 2 US fluid ounce ) of espresso has 80 to 150 mg of caffeine , little less than the 95 to 200 mg of a standard 240 mL ( 8 US fluid ounces ) cup of drip-brewed coffee .
Brian Keith Kelly ( born  अक्तूबर 25 , 1961 ) is an अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल  coach and former player .
He is currently the head football coach for the  notre dame लड़ आयरिश , a स्थिति he रै आयोजित चूंकि दिसम्बर  2009 .
Kelly was previously head coach at Grand Valley State University ( 1991–2003 ) , Central Michigan  विश्वविद्यालयों ( 2004–2006 ) , और विश्वविद्यालयों of सिनसिनाटी ( 2006–2009  ) .
A contract  is an अनुबंध having a lawful ऑब्जेक्ट डाला into voluntarily by दो or  more parties , each of whom intends to create one or more legal obligations between them .
The elements of a contract are `` offer '' and `` acceptance '' by `` competent persons '' having legal capacity  जो एक्सचेंज `` विचार '' to बनाएँ `` mutuality of  obligation . ''
Proof of some or all of these elements may be done in writing ,  हालांकि अनुबंध may be बना entirely orally or  by conduct .
The remedy for breach of contract can be `` damages '' in the form of  मुआवजे of धन or विशिष्ट प्रदर्शन enforced through  an injunction .
Both of these remedies award the party at loss the `` benefit  of the सौदेबाजी '' or अपेक्षा क्षतिपूर्ति , जिससे हैं वृहद than mere रिलायंस क्षतिपूर्ति , as in  promissory estoppel .
The parties may be  प्राकृतिक व्यक्तियों or juristic व्यक्तियों  .
A contract is a legally enforceable promise or  undertaking कि कुछ होगा  or will not occur .
The word  वादा can be प्रयुक्त as a विधिक पर्याय लिये अनुबंध , हालांकि परवाह is जरूरी as a वादा may नहीं have the  full standing of a contract , as when it is an agreement without consideration .
Contract law varies greatly from one jurisdiction to another ,  सहित मतभेद in आम विधि compared to सिविल विधि , the प्रभाव of प्राप्त विधि ,  particularly from England in common law countries , and of law codified in regional legislation .
Regarding Australian Contract Law for example , there are 40  प्रासंगिक अधिनियमों जिससे प्रभाव on the निर्वचन of अनुबंध at the राष्ट्रमंडल ( संघीय / नेशनल )  level , and an additional 26 acts at the level of the state of NSW .
In addition there are  6 अंतरराष्ट्रीय यंत्र or प्रथाओं जिससे हैं लागू लिये अंतरराष्ट्रीय dealings , ऐसे as the संयुक्त राष्ट्र  Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods .
Sidney Patrick Crosby , ONS ( born  अगस्त 7 , 1987 ) is a कनाडाई पेशेवर बर्फ हॉकी खिलाड़ी जो is कप्तान of the पिट्सबर्ग  Penguins of the National Hockey League ( NHL ) .
Crosby was drafted first overall by the  penguins आउट of the क्यूबेक  Major Junior Hockey League ( QMJHL ) .
During his two-year major junior career with the Rimouski Océanic , he earned  back-to-back chl खिलाड़ी of the साल पुरस्कार और led उसके क्लबों to the 2005 मेमोरियल  Cup final .
nicknamed `` the अगला एक `` , he थी एक of the सबसे अत्यधिक regarded ड्राफ्ट चयन in हॉकी इतिहास  , leading many to refer to the 2005 Draft Lottery as the `` Sidney Crosby Sweepstakes '' .
in उसके पहला एनएचएल ऋतु , crosby समाप्त छठे in लीग स्कोरिंग साथ 102  points ( 39 goals , 63 assists ) and was a runner-up for the Calder Memorial Trophy ( won by Alexander Ovechkin ) .
By his second season , he led the NHL with 120 points ( 36 goals , 84 assists ) to  कैप्चर the आर्ट रॉस ट्रॉफी , बनने the youngest खिलाड़ी और the तभी किशोरावस्था to जीत a स्कोरिंग शीर्षक in  any major North American sports league .
कि वही ऋतु , crosby भी जीती the हार्ट मेमोरियल ट्रॉफी as the पेशेवर हॉकी लेखक संघ 's चुनाव लिये सबसे मूल्यवान  player and the Lester B. Pearson Award as the NHL Players Association 's choice for most outstanding player , becoming the seventh player in NHL history to earn all three awards in one year .
Crosby started the 2007–08 season with the  टोली 's कप्तानी और subsequently led उन्हें to the 2008 स्टेनली कप फाइनल , जहाँ वे यहूद  defeated by the Detroit Red Wings in six games .
The Penguins returned to the Finals against Detroit the following  साल और जीती in सात खेल ; crosby became the youngest कप्तान in एनएचएल इतिहास  to win the Stanley Cup .
In the  2009–10 ऋतु , crosby scored a career-high 51 लक्ष्य  , tying him with Steven Stamkos for the Rocket Richard Trophy as the league-leader ; with 58 assists , he totaled 109 points , second in the NHL .
During the off-season ,  crosby प्राप्त the चिह्नित मेसियर नेतृत्व  Award .
In 2010–11 , Crosby  sustained a concussion as a परिणाम of हिट्स  to the head in back-to-back games .
The injury left  उसे sidelined लिये  ten and a half months .
However , after playing eight games in the 2011–12 season ,  crosby 's concussion-like लक्षण लौटे in दिसम्बर 2011 , और he किया नहीं वापसी जबतक mid-march 2012 .
Internationally , Crosby has  represented कनाडा in numerous tournaments लिये the देश 's जूनियर  and men 's teams .
बाद स्पर्धा in the 2003 u-18 जूनियर संसार कप , he represented  Canada in back-to-back IIHF World U20 Championships , winning silver in 2004 and gold in 2005 .
At the 2006 IIHF World Championship , he led the  टूर्नामेंट in स्कोरिंग , जबकि भी कमाई शीर्ष आगे और all-star टोली  honours .
Four years later , Crosby was named to Team Canada  लिये the 2010 शीत ओलंपिक  in Vancouver .
Playing the  संयुक्त राज्य in the सुनहरा पदक  game , he scored the game-winning goal in overtime .
A United  राज्य cent , भी  known as a penny .
`` My two cents '' ( 2¢ ) and its  longer संस्करण `` put my दो सेंट in '' is an संयुक्त राज्य ( us ) idiomatic अभिव्यक्ति , लिया इससे the असली अंग्रेज़ी मुहावरा अभिव्यक्ति  : to put in `` my two pennies worth '' or `` my tuppence worth . ''
It is  प्रयुक्त to preface the अंतरिम stating of one’s  opinion .
By deprecating the opinion to follow – suggesting its value is only two cents , a very small amount –  the उपयोक्ता of the phrase उम्मीदें to lessen the प्रभाव of a संभवतः बयान , प्रर्दशित politeness और विनम्रता  .
however , it is भी sometimes प्रयुक्त साथ विडंबना  when expressing a strongly felt opinion .
The phrase is also  प्रयुक्त आउट of आदत to preface uncontentious  opinions .
लिये example:
The Chinese Civil War was a civil war in China fought between forces loyal to  the सरकारी of the गणतंत्र of चीन led by the kuomintang ( kmt ) और शक्तियां of the कम्युनिस्ट  Party of China ( CPC ) .
The war  began in अप्रैल 1927 , amidst the उत्तरी expedition  , and essentially ended when major active battles ceased in 1950 .
The  विरोध आखिरकार resulted in दो de facto राज्य , the गणतंत्र of चीन ( आरओसी ) in ताईवान और the लोगों  's Republic of China ( PRC ) in mainland China , both claiming to be the legitimate government of China .
The war represented an  वैचारिक विभाजित ( बाएँ vs . सही ) between the कम्युनिस्ट  CPC , and the KMT 's brand of Nationalism .
The  सिविल युद्ध जारी intermittently जबतक लेट 1937 , जब  the two parties formed a Second United Front to counter a Japanese invasion .
China 's full-scale civil war resumed in 1946  , a साल बाद the समाप्त of hostilities साथ  Japan .
After four more years , 1950 saw  the cessation of प्रमुख सैन्य hostilities—with the newly संस्थापित लोगों 's गणतंत्र of चीन controlling मेनलैंड चीन ( सहित हाइनान  ) , and the Republic of China 's jurisdiction being restricted to Taiwan , Penghu , Quemoy , Matsu and several outlying islands .
The Kuomintang defeat is attributed to several factors : Corruption - Chiang wrote  in उसके डायरी on जून 1948 कि the kmt था विफल , नहीं क्युकी of बाह्य दुश्मनों लकिन क्युकी of  rot from within .
दमदार आरंभिक support इससे the  U.S. diminished , and then , stopped .
( Partly because of KMT corruption and anti-democratic  शासन , और partly क्युकी of the अनिश्चित u.S. विदेशी नीति towards साम्यवादी between 1945 और 1950  ) ; Communist land reform policy promised poor peasants farmland from their landlords .
This  ensured pla लोकप्रिय  support .
After the surrender of  जापानी at the समाप्त of संसार युद्ध ii , सोवियत शक्तियां turned over उनके captured जापानी  weapons to the CPC and allowed the CPC to take control of territory in Manchuria .
To this day , no armistice or peace treaty has  कभी महरूम हस्ताक्षरित , और it is debated  as to the whether the Civil War has legally ended .
Cross-Strait relations have been hindered by military threats and political  और आर्थिक दबाव , विशेषकर over ताईवान 's राजनैतिक औकात ,  with both governments officially adhering to a `` One-China policy . ''
The PRC still actively claims Taiwan as part of its territory and continues to  threaten the आरओसी साथ a सैन्य आक्रमण if the आरओसी officially declares स्वतंत्रता by बदलना इसके नाम to  and gaining international recognition as the Republic of Taiwan .
The ROC mutually claims  मेनलैंड चीन , और वे दोनो continue the लड़ो  over diplomatic recognition .
Today  , the युद्ध as ऐसे occurs on the राजनैतिक और आर्थिक fronts in the रूप of cross-strait  relations ; however , the two separate de facto states have close economic ties .
The  एक सौ बारहवीं संयुक्त राज्य कॉंग्रेस थी the  meeting of the legislative branch of the United States federal government , from January 3 , 2011 until January 3 , 2013 .
It convened in Washington , D.C. on January 3  , 2011 , और ended on जनवरी 3 , 2013 , 17 दिनों पहले the समाप्त of the  presidential term to which Barack Obama was elected in 2008 .
सीनेटरों निर्वाचित to नियमित शर्तें in 2006 समाप्त  those terms in this Congress .
This Congress  शामिल the पिछला हाउस of प्रतिनिधि निर्वाचित इससे congressional जिले  that were apportioned based on the 2000 census .
In the 2010 midterm  चुनावों , the रिपब्लिकन पार्टी जीती the  majority in the House of Representatives .
जबकि the डेमोक्रेट रखा उनके  Senate majority , it was reduced from the previous Congress .
This was the first Congress in which the House  और सीनेट यहूद नियंत्रित by अलग पार्टियों चूंकि the 107th कॉंग्रेस  ( 2001–2003 ) , and the first Congress to begin that way since the 99th Congress ( 1985–1987 ) .
In this  कॉंग्रेस , the हाउस of प्रतिनिधि था the largest क्रमांक of रिपब्लिकन  members , 242 , since the 80th Congress ( 1947–1949 ) .
It was also the first Congress since 1947 in which no member of the Kennedy family served , as well as the  सबसे नीतियां polarized कॉंग्रेस चूंकि पुनर्निर्माण , साथ रिकार्ड  low approval ratings .
Wealth in the United States is  commonly measured in शर्तें of जाल लायक , जिससे is the योग  of all assets , including home equity , minus all liabilities .
The total net worth of US households and nonprofit organizations  1945–2009 , unadjusted लिये महंगाई or जनसांख्यिकी बदलें  .
For example , a  household in कब्ज़ा of an $ 800,000 हाउस , $ 5,000 in परस्पर निधि , $ 30,000 in गाड़ियाँ , $ 20,000 लायक  of stock in their own company , and a $ 45,000 IRA would have assets totaling $ 900,000 .
Assuming that this household  होता have a $ 250,000 बंधक , $ 40,000 in car लोन , और $ 10,000 in क्रेडिट  card debt , its debts would total $ 300,000 .
Subtracting the debts from the worth of this household  's एसेट ( 900,000 - $ 300,000 = $ 600,000 ) , इस  household would have a net worth of $ 600,000 .
Net worth can vary with  fluctuations in मान of the  underlying assets .
The wealth —more specifically ,  the मध्य जाल worth—of households in the संयुक्त राज्य is varied साथ संबंध  to race , education , geographic location and gender .
As one would expect , households with greater income feature the highest net  worths , हालांकि ऊँची आय can नहीं be लिया as an सदा सटीक indicator  of net worth .
Overall the number of wealthier households  is on the वृद्धि , साथ baby boomers hitting the highs  of their careers .
In addition , wealth is unevenly  वितरित , साथ the wealthiest 25 % of us households owning 87 % of the माल in the संयुक्त  States , which was $ 54.2 trillion in 2009 .
Including human capital such as skills , the United Nations estimated  the कुल माल of the संयुक्त राज्य in 2008  to be $ 118 trillion .
This article deals with Selective Dorsal Rhizotomy ( SDR ) rather than the rhizotomy procedures for pain relief ; for those procedures ,  जिससे have begun to लो the नाम `` rhizotomy '' in निश्चित उदाहरण , देखिए facet rhizotomy और समान  .
A rhizotomy ( ) is a term chiefly referring to a neurosurgical procedure that selectively destroys problematic nerve roots in the spinal cord ,  सबसे प्रायः to relieve the लक्षण of neuromuscular शर्तें ऐसे as spastic diplegia और अन्य फ़ॉर्म of spastic  cerebral palsy .
The selective dorsal rhizotomy ( SDR ) for spastic cerebral palsy has been the main use of rhizotomy for neurosurgeons specialising in  spastic cp चूंकि the 1980s ; in इस सर्जरी , the spasticity-causing nerves हैं पृथक और तब targeted और नष्ट  .
The sensory nerve roots ,  जहाँ spasticity is स्तिथ , हैं पहला अलग  from the motor ones , and the nerve fibres to be cut are then identified via electromyographic stimulation .
The ones  producing spasticity हैं तब selectively lesioned साथ छोटा  electrical pulses .
In spasticity ,  rhizotomy precisely लक्ष्य और नष्ट the क्षतिग्रस्त nerves कि don’t प्राप्त गामा अमीनो butyric एसिड , जिससे is the कोर  problem for people with spastic cerebral palsy .
These  over-firing , non-gaba-absorbing nerves generate असामान्य विद्युत कार्यकलाप दौरान the emg परीक्षण phase in sdr  and are thus considered to be the source of the patient 's hypertonia ; they are eliminated with the electrical pulses once identified , while the remaining nerves and nerve routes carrying the correct messages remain fully intact and untouched .
This means that the spasticity is permanently dissolved , and that this is done without affecting  बेचैन प्रणाली संवेदनशीलता or फलन in अन्य क्षेत्रों , क्युकी the तभी nerves नष्ट हैं the over-firing ones जिम्मेदार  for the muscle tightness .
The terms rhizotomy and neurotomy are also increasingly becoming interchangeable in  the उपचार of दीर्घकालिक वापस पीड़ा इससे अपक्षयी डिस्क  disease .
This is a procedure called a facet rhizotomy and is not a surgical procedure but is instead done  on an outpatient आधार using a सरल जांच to लागू radiofrequency लहरें to the  impinged pain-causing nerve root lying between the facet joint and the vertebral body .
Such radio frequency nerve lesioning results in five to eight or more  महीने of पीड़ा राहत पहले the तंत्रिका regenerates और another  round of the procedure needs to be performed .
A facet  rhizotomy is बस एक of अनेक अलग फ़ॉर्म of radiofrequency ablation , और इसके उपयोग of  the `` rhizotomy '' name should not be confused with the SDR procedure .
Migrant workers in  कैलिफ़ोर्निया , 1935
The term migrant worker has different official meanings and  connotations in अलग भाग of the संसार  .
The United Nations ' definition is broad , including any  लोगों working बाहर of उनके घर  country .
The term can also be used to describe someone who migrates within a  देश , संभवतः उनके अपना , in अनुक्रम to pursue कार्य ऐसे as मौसमी  work .
Photograph of Lil Wayne  साथ teardrop टैटू नीचे उसके  eyes .
The teardrop tattoo or tear  टैटू is a सांकेतिक टैटू कि is लगाई  underneath the eye .
It has no fixed  अर्थ लकिन लगभग सब meanings  ( see below ) have some connection to prison .
U.S.  रूट 75 is a north–south  U.S. Highway .
The highway 's northern terminus is in Kittson County , Minnesota , at the Canadian border  , जहाँ it एकबार जारी as मनिटोबा राजमार्ग 75 on the अन्य पक्ष of the now-closed किनारा  crossing .
Its southern terminus is at  अंतरराज्यीय 30 और अंतरराज्यीय 45 in डलास , टेक्सास ,  where it is known as North Central Expressway .
U.S. 75 was a border-to-border route ,  इससे कनाडा to the गल्फ of मैक्सिको at galveston  , Texas .
However , the entire segment south of Dallas , Texas has been decommissioned in favor of Interstate 45 , a  कटऑफ खण्ड of town-to-town सतह सड़क having become राज्य  Highway 75 .
Lower Ninth Ward is a  पड़ोस of the नगर of नई ऑरलियन्स  .
As the name  implies , it is भाग of  the Ninth Ward of New Orleans .
The Lower Ninth Ward is often thought of as the entire area within  नई ऑरलियन्स downriver of the औद्योगिक कनाल ; however , the नगर नियोजन आयोग divides इस क्षेत्रफल into  the Lower Ninth Ward ( 2 ) and Holy Cross ( 3 ) neighborhoods .
The term `` Lower '' refers  to इसके स्थान दूर towards the मुँह of the मिसिसिपी नदी  , `` down '' or `` below '' the rest of the city in local geographic terminology .
But the 9th Ward , like  सब wards in नई ऑरलियन्स , is a मतदान ज़िला  .
The 9th Ward  थी added as a मतदान  district in 1852 .
The `` lower '' 9th Ward is composed of Ward 9 Districts 1 , 2 , 4 , and 7  जिससे मेक up the पावन क्रॉस क्षेत्रफल और वार्ड 9 जिले 3 , 5 , 6 ,  and 8 .
Higher voting district numbers in  the 9th वार्ड ( 8-27 ) हैं on the upriver पक्ष  of the Industrial Canal .
The area came to national  ध्यान लिये इसके devastation  in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina in 2005 .
Hubble views of  कोपरनिकस crater ( इनसेट ) , जिससे is परिचय 58 मील ( 93  km ) wide
Red and orange tinted Moon  , as देखी इससे धरती दौरान a चंद्र ग्रहण , जहाँ  the Earth comes between the Moon and Sun
The Moon is the only natural satellite of the  धरती , और the पांचवां largest उपग्रह in the सौर प्रणाली  .
It is the largest natural satellite of a planet in the Solar System relative  to the आकार of इसके प्राथमिक , having 27 % the व्यास और 60 % the घनत्व of धरती  , resulting in its mass .
The Moon  is the दूसरी densest उपग्रह  after Io , a satellite of Jupiter .
The Moon is in synchronous rotation with Earth , always showing the same face with its near side  चिह्नित by अंधेरा volcanic मरिया कि भरण between the उज्जवल प्राचीन crustal हाइलैंड्स और  the prominent impact craters .
It is the brightest  ऑब्जेक्ट in the आसमान बाद the सूर्य  , although its surface is actually very dark , with a reflectance similar to that of coal .
Its prominence in the sky  और इसके नियमित साईकिल of phases have , चूंकि प्राचीन टाइम्स , बना the चंद्रमा an महत्वपूर्ण सांस्कृतिक  influence on language , calendars , art and mythology .
The Moon 's  गुरुत्वाकर्षक influence produces the समंदर tides  and the minute lengthening of the day .
The Moon 's current orbital distance , about thirty times the diameter of the Earth , causes it to  appear लगभग the वही आकार in the आसमान as the सूर्य , allowing it to कवर the सूर्य nearly precisely in कुल सौर  eclipses .
This matching  of apparent विज़ुअल आकार is  a coincidence .
The Moon 's linear  अलहदा इससे the धरती is फिलहाल increasing at a रेट of 3.82±0.07cm  per year , but this rate is not constant .
The  चंद्रमा is विचार to have formed nearly 4.5 अरब  years ago , not long after the Earth .
Although there have been several hypotheses for its origin in the past , the current most  widely स्वीकृत स्पष्टीकरण is कि the चंद्रमा formed इससे the मलबा बाएँ over बाद a दानव प्रभाव between  Earth and a Mars -sized body .
The  चंद्रमा is the तभी celestial देह  other than Earth on which humans have set foot .
The Soviet Union 's Luna programme was the first to reach the Moon  साथ unmanned spacecraft in 1959 ; the संयुक्त राज्य ' नासा अपोलो कार्यक्रम हासिल the तभी मानवयुक्त मिशन to तिथि , शुरूआत साथ the पहला मानवयुक्त चंद्र orbiting मिशन by अपोलो 8 in 1968 , और छह मानवयुक्त  lunar landings between 1969 and 1972 , with the first being Apollo 11 .
These missions returned over 380 kg of lunar rocks , which have  महरूम प्रयुक्त to develop a geological समझना of the चंद्रमा 's origins , the गठन of इसके आतंरिक ढांचा , और इसके subsequent  history .
After the Apollo 17 mission in 1972 ,  the चंद्रमा रै महरूम visited तभी by unmanned  spacecraft , notably by the final Soviet Lunokhod rover .
Since 2004 , Japan ,  चीन , इण्डिया , the संयुक्त राज्य , और the यूरोपीय स्पेस  Agency have each sent lunar orbiters .
These spacecraft have contributed to confirming the discovery of lunar water ice in  permanently shadowed craters at the डंडे और बंधी into the चंद्र regolith .
Future  मानवयुक्त मिशन to the चंद्रमा have महरूम नियोजित ,  including government as well as privately funded efforts .
The Moon remains , under  the बाहरी स्पेस सन्धि , फ़्री to  all nations to explore for peaceful purposes .
Ronald Wilson Reagan ( ; February 6  , 1911 – जून 5 , 2004 ) थी the 40th अध्यक्ष of the  United States ( 1981–1989 ) .
Prior to that , he was the 33rd Governor of  कैलिफ़ोर्निया ( 1967–1975 ) , और a रेडियो , फिल्मी और टेलीविज़न  actor .
Born in Tampico ,  इलिनोइस , और उठाया in डिक्सन , reagan थी शिक्षित at यूरेका कॉलेज , कमाई  a Bachelor of Arts degree in economics and sociology .
After graduating , Reagan moved first to Iowa to work as a  रेडियो प्रसारणकर्ता और तब , in 1937 , to लॉस एंजिल्स जहाँ he began  a career as an actor , first in films and later television .
Some of his most notable films include  knute rockne , सब अमरीकी ( 1940 ) , किंग्स पंक्ति ( 1942 ) , और bedtime लिये bonzo  ( 1951 ) .
Reagan served as President of the Screen Actors  गिल्ड और बाद as a प्रवक्ता लिये सामान्य इलेक्ट्रिक ( ge ) ; उसके प्रारंभ in राजनीती  occurred during his work for GE .
Originally a member of the Democratic Party , his positions began shifting rightward in the  1950s , और he switched to the रिपब्लिकन  Party in 1962 .
After delivering a rousing speech in support of Barry Goldwater 's presidential candidacy  in 1964 , he थी persuaded to तलाश the कैलिफ़ोर्निया  governorship , winning two years later and again in 1970 .
He  थी पराजित in उसके चलाएं लिये the रिपब्लिकन अध्यक्षीय  nomination in 1968 and in 1976 , but won both the nomination and general election in 1980 , defeating incumbent Jimmy Carter .
As president , Reagan  implemented sweeping नई राजनैतिक और आर्थिक  initiatives .
His supply-side economic policies , dubbed `` Reaganomics `` , advocated reducing tax rates to spur economic growth ,  controlling the धन सप्लाई to reduce महंगाई , deregulation of the अर्थव्यवस्था , और reducing सरकारी बिता  .
In his first term he survived an assassination attempt ,  took a मुश्किल लकीर विरूद्ध मजदूर संघ , घोषित a नई युद्ध on दवाएँ , और ordered  an invasion of Grenada .
He was  re-elected in a भूस्खलन in 1984  , proclaiming that it was `` Morning in America `` .
His second term was primarily  चिह्नित by विदेशी matters , ऐसे as the समाप्ति of the ठंडा  War , the 1986 bombing of Libya , and the revelation of the Iran-Contra affair .
Publicly describing the Soviet Union as an `` evil empire `` , he supported  anti-communist आंदोलनों विश्वव्यापी और खर्च उसके पहला पद forgoing the रणनीति of détente by ordering a विशाल सैन्य buildup  in an arms race with the USSR .
Reagan negotiated with Soviet General Secretary Mikhail Gorbachev , culminating in the  inf सन्धि और the घटी of दोनो देशों ' नाभिकीय arsenals  .
reagan बाएँ दफ्तर  in 1989 .
In 1994 , the former president disclosed that he  था महरूम diagnosed साथ अल्जाइमर 's बीमारी पहले in the साल ; he  died ten years later at the age of 93 .
A conservative icon , he ranks highly in public opinion polls  of u.S. राष्ट्रपतियों और is credited लिये generating  an ideological renaissance on the American political right .
Complete set of  scrolls , constituting the संपूर्ण  Tanakh .
The Tanakh ( , or ; also  tenakh , tenak , tanach ) is a नाम प्रयुक्त in judaism लिये  the canon of the Hebrew Bible .
The Tanakh is also  ज्ञात as the masoretic टेक्स्ट or  the Miqra .
The name is an acronym formed from  the आरंभिक यहूदी अक्षर of the masoretic टेक्स्ट 's तीन परंपरागत subdivisions : the तोरा ( ``  Teaching '' , also known as the Five Books of Moses ) , Nevi'im ( `` Prophets '' ) and Ketuvim ( `` Writings '' ) —hence TaNaKh .
The name `` Miqra ''  ( מקרא ) , अर्थ `` कि जिससे is पढ़ा '' , is an  alternative Hebrew term for the Tanakh .
The books of the Tanakh were relayed with an  accompanying मौखिक परंपरा passed on by प्रत्येक पीढी , पुकारा  the Oral Torah .
The Kawasaki Ninja ZX-6R is a Kawasaki  600 cc क्लास खेल मोटरसाइकिल  .
it थी introduced in 1995 , और रै महरूम constantly अद्यतनीकृत throughout the सालो  in response to new products from Honda , Suzuki , and Yamaha .
The ZX  श्रेणी is कया थी ज्ञात as the निंजा लकीर  of Kawasaki motorcycles in the 1980s and still carries the name today .
हत्या कोशिशें और भूखंड on राष्ट्रपतियों of the संयुक्त राज्य have महरूम numerous : अधिक than 20 कोशिशें to मार बैठे  and former presidents , as well as the Presidents-elect , are known .
चार बैठे राष्ट्रपतियों have महरूम मारे : अब्राहम lincoln  ( the 16th President ) , James A. Garfield ( the 20th President ) , William McKinley ( the 25th President ) and John F. Kennedy ( the 35th President ) .
Two presidents were injured in attempted assassinations : former President Theodore  रूज़वेल्ट ( the 26th अध्यक्ष ) , और अध्यक्ष  Ronald Reagan ( the 40th President ) .
Although the historian J.W . Clarke has  सुझाया कि सबसे अमरीकी assassinations यहूद नीतियां प्रेरित क्रियाएँ , carried आउट by तर्कसंगत मेन , नहीं सब  such attacks have been undertaken for political reasons .
Some attackers had  questionable दिमागी स्थिरता , और a few यहूद judged  legally insane .
Since the Vice President of the United States has for  अधिक than a सदी महरूम निर्वाचित इससे the वही राजनैतिक पार्टी as the अध्यक्ष , the हत्या  of the President is unlikely to result in major policy changes .
इस may बताइये क्यों राजनैतिक समूह typically  do not make such attacks .
Where the Red Fern Grows is a novel  लिखा by विल्सन राल्स in 1961 परिचय a  boy who buys and trains two Redbone Coonhound hunting dogs .
ओक्लाहोमा ( ) ( pawnee : uukuhuúwa , cay  : Gahnawiyoˀgeh ) is a state located in West South Central United States .
Oklahoma is the 20th most extensive  और the 28th सबसे populous  of the 50 United States .
The state 's name is  निकला इससे the choctaw शब्द okla और humma , अर्थ `` रेड लोगों  '' , and it is known informally by its nickname , The Sooner State .
Formed by the combination of Oklahoma Territory and  भारतीय territory on नवम्बर 16 , 1907 , ओक्लाहोमा थी the 46th राज्य to डालें  the union .
Its  निवासियों हैं ज्ञात as oklahomans or , informally `` okies '' , और इसके  capital and largest city is Oklahoma City .
A major producer of natural gas  , आयल , और कृषि , ओक्लाहोमा relies on an आर्थिक आधार of  aviation , energy , telecommunications , and biotechnology .
It has one of the fastest growing economies in the  स्वदेश , रैंकिंग among the शीर्ष राज्य in प्रति capita आय  growth and gross domestic product growth .
ओक्लाहोमा नगर और तुलसा serve as ओक्लाहोमा 's प्राथमिक आर्थिक anchors  , with nearly two thirds of Oklahomans living within their metropolitan statistical areas .
With small mountain  सीमाएँ , प्रेयरी , mesas , और पूर्वी वनों , सबसे of ओक्लाहोमा झूठ in the ग्रेट मैदान और the u.s . आंतरिक  Highlands —a region especially prone to severe weather .
In addition to having a prevalence of English , German ,  स्कॉटिश , आयरिश और देशी अमरीकी ancestry , अधिक than 25 देशी अमरीकी भाषाएं हैं बोला  in Oklahoma , second only to California .
Oklahoma is located on a confluence of three major American cultural regions  और historically परोसा as a रूट लिये चौपायों ड्राइव , a गंतव्य लिये दक्षिणी settlers , और a government-sanctioned territory लिये देशी अमेरिकी .
Redwall , by  ब्रायन ज़ाक , is a श्रेणी of children  's fantasy novels .
It is the title of the first book of the series , published in 1986 , as well as the name of the Abbey featured in the  किताब और the नाम of an एनिमेटेड tv श्रेणी आधारित on तीन of the novels  ( Redwall , Mattimeo , and Martin the Warrior ) , which first aired in 1999 .
The books are primarily aimed at  पुरानी children , लकिन have प्रशंसक of सब आयु  .
There have been twenty-two novels and two  चित्र किताबे प्रकाशित .
The twenty-second , and final  , अनोखा , the दुष्ट क्रू , थी मरणोपरांत  released on May 3 , 2011 .
Natural Gas is usually  measured by आवाज़ in the संयुक्त राज्य और  is stated in cubic feet .
A cubic  पैर of गैस is the राशि of गैस needed to भरण a आवाज़ of एक घन पैर अंतर्गत नियत  conditions of pressure and temperature.To measure larger amounts of natural gas , a `` therm '' is used to denote 100 cubic feet , and `` mcf '' is used to denote 1,000 cubic feet .
To provide greater accuracy in comparing  fuels , उर्जा सामग्री is measured in शर्तें of  `` British Thermal Units ( BTU 's ) . ''
A BTU  is the राशि of ऊष्मा जरूरी to उठाएँ एक पाउंड of जल ( लगभग  a pint ) , one degree Fahrenheit at or close to its point of maximum density .
One British therm ( symbol thm ) is a non- SI unit of heat  उर्जा बराबर to 100,000 अंग्रेजों थर्मल इकाई  ( BTU ) .
It  is लगभग the उर्जा समतुल्य of burning  100 cubic feet ( often referred to as 1 CCF ) of natural gas .
Since ( Natural Gas ) meters measure volume and  नहीं उर्जा सामग्री , a therm फ़ैक्टर is प्रयुक्त by ( प्राकृतिक ) गैस कंपनियाँ to बदलें  the volume of gas used to its heat equivalent , and thus calculate the actual energy use .
The  therm फ़ैक्टर is प्रायः in the इकाई  therms/CCF .
It will vary with the mix of hydrocarbons  in the प्राकृतिक गैस  .
Natural  गैस साथ a उच्चतर than औसत विशेषज्ञता of  ethane , propane or butane will have a higher therm factor .
Impurities , such as carbon dioxide or  नाइट्रोजन , निम्नतर the therm फ़ैक्टर  .
The volume of  the गैस is गणना as if measured  at standard temperature and pressure ( STP ) .
The heat content of natural gas is solely dependent  on the संयोजन of the गैस , और is स्वतंत्र  of temperature and pressure .
One therm is equal to  परिचय 105.5 megajoules , 25,200 kilocalories  or 29.3 kilowatt-hours .
One therm can  भी be provided by  about of natural gas .
The therm  sometimes रै महरूम उलझन साथ the thermie  ( see below ) .
The names of both units come  इससे the यूनानी शब्द लिये ऊष्मा  .
A thermie ( th ) is a  मीट्रिक ईकाई of ऊष्मा उर्जा , भाग  of the meter-tonne-second system sometimes used by European engineers .
The  thermie is बराबर to the राशि of  energy required to raise the temperature of 1 tonne of water by 1 °C .
The thermie is  समतुल्य to 1,000 kilocalories , 4.1868 megajoules  or 3968.3 BTU .
The American Civil War ( ACW ) , also known as the War between the States or simply the Civil War ( see naming ) , was a civil war  लड़ा इससे 1861 to 1865 between the संयुक्त राज्य ( the `` संघ '' or the `` उत्तर '' ) और अनेक दक्षिणी स्लेव राज्य कि घोषित उनके secession और formed the confederate राज्य of अमेरिका ( the  `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ) .
The war had its  उत्पत्ति in the समस्या of गुलामी , विशेषकर  the extension of slavery into the western territories .
Foreign  शक्तियां किया नहीं intervene  .
After four years of bloody combat that left over 600,000  सैनिको मुर्दे और नष्ट much of the दक्षिण 's अवसंरचना , the confederacy collapsed , गुलामी थी abolished , और the मुश्किल पुनर्निर्माण  process of restoring national unity and guaranteeing rights to the freed slaves began .
In the 1860 presidential election , Republicans , led by  अब्राहम lincoln , opposed expanding गुलामी into संयुक्त  States ' territories .
Lincoln won , but before his inauguration on March 4 , 1861 ,  सात cotton-based स्लेव राज्य formed the confederacy  .
Outgoing Democratic President James Buchanan and  the आवक republicans अस्वीकृत secession as illegal  .
Lincoln 's inaugural address declared his  प्रशासन होता नहीं initiate सिविल युद्ध  .
Eight  बाकी स्लेव राज्य जारी  to reject calls for secession .
Confederate forces seized  numerous संघीय दुर्गों भीतर territory claimed  by the Confederacy .
A Peace Conference  विफल to ढूँढें a सुलह , और दोनो पहलू prepared  for war .
The Confederates assumed that European countries were so dependent on `` King Cotton `` that  वे होता intervene ; none किया और none पहचाना the नई confederate राज्य  of America .
Hostilities began on April 12 , 1861 , when Confederate forces fired upon Fort  sumter , a कुंजी फोर्ट आयोजित by संघ सैनिकों in दक्षिण कैरोलिना  .
Lincoln called for each state to provide troops to retake the fort ; consequently ,  चार अधिक स्लेव राज्य joined the confederacy , bringing उनके  total to eleven .
The Union soon  नियंत्रित the किनारा राज्य और स्थापित a  naval blockade that crippled the southern economy .
The Eastern  थिएटर थी inconclusive in  1861–62 .
The autumn 1862 Confederate campaign  into मेरीलैंड ( a संघ राज्य ) ended साथ confederate  retreat at the Battle of Antietam , dissuading British intervention .
Lincoln  जारी the emancipation उदघोषणा  , which made ending slavery a war goal .
To the west , by  गर्मियाँ 1862 the संघ नष्ट the confederate नदी नेवी , तब much of उनके  western armies , and the Union at Vicksburg split the Confederacy in two at the Mississippi River .
In 1863 , Robert E. Lee 's Confederate  incursion उत्तर ended at the बैटल of gettysburg  .
Western successes led to Ulysses S. Grant  कमांड of सब संघ सेना  in 1864 .
In the Western Theater , William T. Sherman drove east to capture Atlanta and marched  to the समुद्र , destroying confederate अवसंरचना साथ the  way .
The Union marshaled the resources and manpower to attack the Confederacy from all directions , and  could afford to लड़ो लड़ाइयों of अपघर्षण through the overland अभियान towards रिचमंड , the  Confederate capital .
The defending Confederate army failed , leading to Lee 's  आत्मसमर्पण to ग्रान्ट at appomattox अदालत  House on April 9 , 1865 .
The American Civil War was one of  the earliest सच्चा औद्योगिक युद्धों  .
Railroads , the telegraph , steamships , and  mass-produced हथियार यहूद  employed extensively .
The mobilization of civilian factories , mines ,  shipyards , बैंको , परिवहन और खाना आपूर्तियाँ  all foreshadowed World War I .
It remains the deadliest war in American history , resulting in the deaths of an  अनुमानित 750,000 सैनिको और an undetermined क्रमांक of civilian हताहत  .
Historian John Huddleston estimates the death toll at ten percent of all Northern males 20–45  सालो बूढ़ा , और 30 प्रतिशत of सब दक्षिणी श्वेत males aged 18–40  .
William Bruce Jenner ( born October 28 , 1949 ) is a  पूर्व u.S. track और फ़ील्ड खिलाड़ी , प्रेरक स्पीकर , socialite , टेलीविज़न व्यक्तित्व  and businessman .
He won the  सुनहरा पदक लिये decathlon in the  Montreal 1976 Summer Olympics .
Following his Olympic win and the related recognition , he married Kris Kardashian ,  और उसके पेशेवर करियर विकसित into होने a टेलीविज़न  celebrity .
By  1981 , he था स्ट्रक्चर in अनेक  made-for-TV movies and was Erik Estrada 's replacement on the top rated TV series CHiPs .
He  रै छह children : बर्ट , केसी , ब्रैंडन ,  Brody , Kendall and Kylie .
Since his 1991 marriage to Kris Jenner , he is  the stepfather to कोर्टनी , किम , khloe और  Rob Kardashian .
Since 2007 , he has appeared with his blended  परिवार on keeping up साथ the kardashians .
Escherichia coli ( ; commonly abbreviated  E. कोलाई ) is a gram-negative , rod-shaped bacterium कि is commonly मिला in  the lower intestine of warm-blooded organisms ( endotherms ) .
Most E. coli strains are harmless , but some  serotypes can कारण गंभीर खाना विषाक्तता in इंसानो , और हैं occasionally जिम्मेदार  for product recalls due to food contamination .
The harmless strains are part of the normal flora of the gut , and can  लाभ उनके होस्ट by producing विटामिन k2 , और by preventing the स्थापना of रोगजनक जीवाणु भीतर the  intestine .
E. coli and related bacteria constitute about 0.1 % of gut flora , and  fecal–oral हस्तांतरण is the प्रमुख रूट through जिससे रोगजनक strains of the  bacterium cause disease .
Cells are able to survive outside the body for a limited amount of time , which makes  उन्हें आदर्श indicator जीवों to परीक्षण पर्यावरणीय नमूने लिये fecal संदूषण  .
वहीँ is , however , a growing  body of research that has examined environmentally persistent E. coli which can survive for extended periods outside of the host .
The bacterium can also be grown easily and  inexpensively in a प्रयोगशाला सेटिंग , और रै महरूम intensively investigated लिये over  60 years .
E. coli is the most widely studied  prokaryotic मॉडल सजीव , और an महत्वपूर्ण प्रजाति in the फ़ील्ड of जैवप्रौद्योगिकी और सूक्ष्मजैविकी  , where it has served as the host organism for the majority of work with recombinant DNA .
Area code 217 is  the उत्तर अमरीकी टेलीफोन क्षेत्रफल कोड लिये much of पश्चिमी  and central Illinois .
The 217 area includes Illinois ' capital ,  springfield , प्लस champaign , urbana , decatur , danville  , Quincy , and Rantoul .
217 was one of the original area codes ,  जिससे यहूद निर्मित in  1947 .
The only significant change in 217 's boundaries  थी in 1957 , जब इसके उत्तरी portion थी संयुक्त साथ भाग  of area code 815 to form area code 309 .
Image of the  largest अंटार्कटिक ओज़ोन छेद कभी अंकित  ( September 2006 ) , over the Southern pole
Layers of the  माहौल ( नहीं to  scale )
Ozone depletion  describes दो पृथक लकिन सम्बन्धित phenomena observed चूंकि the लेट 1970s : a स्थिर मनाही of परिचय 4 % प्रति दशक in  the total volume of ozone in Earth 's stratosphere ( the ozone layer ) , and a much larger springtime decrease in stratospheric ozone over Earth 's polar regions .
the latter घटना is referred  to as the ozone hole .
In addition to  ये well-known stratospheric phenomena , वहीँ हैं भी springtime  polar tropospheric ozone depletion events .
The details of  ध्रुवीय ओज़ोन छेद गठन differ इससे कि of mid-latitude thinning , लकिन the सबसे  important process in both is catalytic destruction of ozone by atomic halogens .
The main source of  ये हैलोजन अणु in the stratosphere is photodissociation  of man-made halocarbon refrigerants ( CFCs , freons , halons ) .
These compounds are  transported into the stratosphere बाद होने  emitted at the surface .
दोनो प्रकार of ओज़ोन depletion यहूद observed  to increase as emissions of halo-carbons increased .
CFCs and other contributory substances are  referred to as ozone-depleting substances ( ods  ) .
Since the ozone layer prevents most harmful UVB wavelengths ( 280–315 nm ) of ultraviolet light ( UV light ) from passing  through the धरती 's माहौल , observed और प्रक्षिप्त decreases in ओज़ोन have उत्पन्न विश्वव्यापी चिंता अग्रणी to अपनाना of the मॉन्ट्रियल प्रोटोकॉल कि  bans the production of CFCs , halons , and other ozone-depleting chemicals such as carbon tetrachloride and trichloroethane .
It is suspected that a  किस्में of biological consequences ऐसे as increases in  skin cancer , cataracts , damage to plants , and reduction of plankton populations in the ocean 's photic zone may result from the increased UV exposure due to ozone depletion .
The Preamble to the United States  संविधान is a ब्रैड परिचयात्मक बयान of the संविधान  's fundamental purposes and guiding principles .
It states in general terms , and courts have  referred to it as विश्वसनीय प्रमाण of , the founding fathers ' इरादों regarding the संविधान 's अर्थ  and what they hoped the Constitution would achieve as it pertains to all of the people of the United States .
As the phrase , `` we the people ''  suggests कि the नई सरकारी originates इससे the लोगों of the संयुक्त राज्य और it सेट into गति a सवाल as it pertains to कि विशाल जनसांख्यिकी  concerning the individual rights and equality among all people ; this can be seen most broadly in the divide between republicanism and social democracy .
Czechoslovakian shot putter Plihan  at the 1957 ईस्ट जर्मनी अंदर एथलेटिक्स  Championships
The shot put ( pronounced ) is a track and field event involving ``  फेंकना '' / '' putting '' ( फेंकना in a pushing गति ) a भारी गोलाकार ऑब्जेक्ट  —the shot—as far as possible .
The shot put  प्रतियोगिता लिये मेन रै महरूम a भाग of the आधुनिक ओलंपिक चूंकि उनके  revival in 1896 , women 's competition began in 1948 .
Map of the United Nations ( UN ) member states , with their territories ( including  निर्भर territories ) पहचाना by the un in  blue
There are United Nations (  un ) सदस्य राज्य , और प्रत्येक of उन्हें is  a member of the United Nations General Assembly .
The criteria for  प्रवेश of नई सदस्यों हैं नियत आउट in the संयुक्त राष्ट्र चार्टर  , Chapter II , Article 4:
A recommendation for admission from the Security Council requires affirmative votes from at least nine of the  परिषद 's पंद्रह सदस्यों , साथ none of the पाँच स्थाई सदस्यों मतदान विरूद्ध  .
The Security Council 's recommendation must then be  subsequently स्वीकृत in the सामान्य सभा  by a two-thirds majority vote .
In principle , only sovereign  राज्य can become un सदस्यों , और फिलहाल सब un सदस्यों हैं sovereign राज्य ( हालांकि a  few members were not sovereign when they joined the UN ) .
Because a state can only be admitted to the UN by the  स्वीकृति of the सुरक्षा परिषद और the सामान्य सभा , a क्रमांक of राज्य कि may be माना sovereign राज्य  according to the Montevideo Convention criteria are not members because the UN does not consider them to possess sovereignty , mainly due to the lack of international recognition or opposition from certain members .
In addition to the member states , the UN also invites non-member states ( currently two :  the पावन देखिए और फिलिस्तीन ) , intergovernmental संगठन , और अन्य अंतरराष्ट्रीय संगठन और entities जिनकी statehood or प्रभुता हैं  not precisely defined , to become observers at the General Assembly , allowing them to participate and speak , but not vote , in General Assembly meetings .
The Eiffel Tower ( , ) is an iron lattice tower located on the Champ  de मंगल in पेरिस , नामित बाद the इंजीनियर gustave एफिल , जिनकी कम्पनी designed और  built the tower .
Erected in 1889 as the entrance  मेहराब to the 1889 संसार 's मेला , it रै become दोनो a वैश्विक सांस्कृतिक  icon of France and one of the most recognizable structures in the world .
The tower is the tallest structure in Paris and the  most-visited सशुल्क स्मारक in the संसार ; 7.1 लाख लोगों ascended it in 2011  .
The third level observatory 's upper platform is at the  उच्चतम accessible to पब्लिक in the यूरोपीय संघ और the उच्चतम in यूरोपीय as long as the  platform of the Ostankino Tower , at , remains closed as a result of the fire of August 2000 .
the मीनार प्राप्त इसके 250  millionth visitor in 2010 .
The tower  स्टैंड लम्बा , परिचय the वही ऊँचाई  as an 81-storey building .
दौरान इसके निर्माण , the एफिल मीनार surpassed the वॉशिंगटन स्मारक to assume the  title of the tallest man-made structure in the world , a title it held for 41 years , until the Chrysler Building in New York City was built in 1930 .
Because of the addition , in 1957 ,  of the एंटीना atop the एफिल मीनार , it is अभी taller than  the Chrysler Building .
Not including broadcast antennas , it is the second-tallest  ढांचा in फ़्रांस , बाद the millau viaduct  .
The tower has  तीन स्तर लिये विज़िटर  .
Tickets can be  खरीदा to ascend , by सीढ़ियाँ or लिफ्ट ( लिफ्ट ) , to the पहला  and second levels .
The walk from ground level to  the पहला स्तर is over 300 कदम , as is the चलना इससे  the first to the second level .
The third  और उच्चतम स्तर is accessible तभी by lift—stairs do मौजूद लकिन  are usually closed to the public .
The first and second  स्तर have रेस्तरां  .
The tower has become the most prominent symbol of  दोनो पेरिस और फ़्रांस , प्रायः in the establishing शॉट of films नियत  in the city .
Kenneth Wayne `` Ken '' Jennings III ( born May 23 ,  1974 ) is an अमरीकी खेल दिखाएँ प्रतियोगी और लेखक  .
Jennings is noted for holding the record for the longest  जीतना streak on the u.S. syndicated  game show Jeopardy !
and as being the  all-time अग्रणी धन  winner on American game shows .
In  2004 , जेनिंग्स जीती 74 jeopardy  !
games before he  थी पराजित by चैलेंजर नैंसी zerg on उसके 75th  appearance .
His total  आय on jeopardy  !
are $ 3,172,700 , consisting of $ 2,520,700 over his 74 wins , a $ 2,000  second-place पुरस्कार in उसके 75th रूप , a  $ 500,000 second-place prize in the Jeopardy !
Ultimate Tournament  of champions , as खूब as हाफ of a $ 300,000  prize in the IBM Challenge .
दौरान उसके पहला  run of Jeopardy !
appearances  , जेनिंग्स अर्जित the रिकार्ड लिये the उच्चतम  American game show winnings .
His total was surpassed by Brad Rutter , who  पराजित जेनिंग्स in the फाइनल of the jeopardy  !
Ultimate Tournament of Champions ( first  aired on may 25 , 2005 ) , adding $ 2,000,000 to rutter  's existing Jeopardy !
winnings  .
जेनिंग्स regained the रिकार्ड बाद appearing on अनेक अन्य  game shows , culminating in an appearance on Are You Smarter Than a 5th Grader ?
( first aired on October 10 , 2008 ) ,  हालांकि rutter retains the jeopardy !
रिकार्ड  .
After  उसके कामयाबी on jeopardy ! , जेनिंग्स लिखा परिचय उसके अनुभव और छान अमरीकी ट्रिविया इतिहास और संस्कृति in उसके किताब  Brainiac : Adventures in the Curious , Competitive , Compulsive World of Trivia Buffs , published in 2006 .
The Canadian  फ़ुटबॉल लीग or cfl ( ' [ lcf ] in फ्रेंच  ) is a professional sports league located in Canada .
The CFL is the highest level of competition in Canadian  फ़ुटबॉल , a रूप of gridiron फ़ुटबॉल closely सम्बन्धित to अमरीकी  football .
Its eight current teams , which are located in eight separate  शहरों , हैं विभाजित into दो विभाजन of चार टीमों प्रत्येक — the ईस्ट प्रभाग और the वेस्ट प्रभाग  .
The league 's 19-week regular season runs from late June to early November ;  प्रत्येक टोली plays 18 खेल साथ एक अलविदा  week .
following the नियमित ऋतु , the तीन टीमों साथ the बेहतरीन रिकॉर्ड in उनके प्रभाग ( मगर if the चौथी प्लेस टोली in एक प्रभाग रै a बेहतर रिकार्ड than the तीसरा प्लेस टोली in the  other division , when the team with the better record makes the playoffs and `` crosses over '' to the other division 's playoff ) compete in the league 's three-week divisional playoffs , which culminate in the late-November Grey Cup championship , the country 's largest annual sports and television event .
The CFL was officially founded on January 19 , 1958 , making it the second oldest  gridiron फ़ुटबॉल लीग in उत्तर अमेरिका स्टिल in आपरेशन , हालांकि सब इसके टीमों long predate the आधुनिक  formation of the league .
It is the highest level of play in Canadian football , the most popular football league in Canada , and the  second-most लोकप्रिय प्रमुख खेल लीग in कनाडा , बाद the नेशनल  Hockey League .
Although ice hockey is Canada 's most popular sport ,  the cfl रै increased the लोकप्रियता of कनाडाई फ़ुटबॉल in क्यूबेक  and Western Canada .
Canadian football is also played at amateur levels ( i.e . youth , high school , CJFL ,  qjfl , cis और वरिष्ठ लीग ऐसे as the अलबर्टा फ़ुटबॉल  League ) .
The 2010s will be a significant decade for the CFL in  शर्तें of विकास , as टीमों have संवर , विस्तारित स्टेडियम , or  plan to build entirely new stadiums .
The Montreal Alouettes accomplished this first , adding 5,000 seats to  पर्सिवल molson मेमोरियल स्टेडियम in समय लिये  the 2010 CFL season .
the एडमॉन्टन एस्किमोस और कैला स्तेमपेड्रस भी संवर उनके  respective stadiums and facilities for the 2010 season .
In 2011 , the BC Lions played under a  नई , retractable छत in bc प्लेस बाद बिता एक और a हाफ  seasons at Empire Field .
Then the Winnipeg Blue Bombers will play in an entirely new stadium  at the विश्वविद्यालयों of मनिटोबा , अनुसूचित to खोलें in समय लिये the 2013 ऋतु  .
The Hamilton Tiger-Cats , Saskatchewan Roughriders and the new  ओटावा मताधिकार हैं भी looking at नई or extensively-renovated  stadiums in the following years .
There are also hopes of expanding the league to Atlantic Canada ( ideally basing a team in either the more populated Halifax , or the more  centralized moncton ) , as 2010 और 2011 था नियमित ऋतु  games hosted in Moncton .
According to sports historian Douglas Brei , the Canadian Football League holds the  भेद of होने the तभी पेशेवर खेल लीग in उत्तर अमेरिका , प्रमुख or नाबालिग लीग , in जिससे प्रत्येक मौजूदा मताधिकार रै जीती at  least one league title while in their current location .
Each  एंटीबॉडी बांधता to a विशिष्ट प्रतिजन ; an बातचीत  similar to a lock and key .
An antibody ( Ab ) , also known as an immunoglobulin ( Ig ) , is a large Y-shaped protein produced  by b-cells कि is प्रयुक्त by the प्रतिरक्षा प्रणाली to पहचानो और neutralize विदेशी वस्तुएँ  such as bacteria and viruses .
The antibody recognizes a  अद्वितीय भाग of the विदेशी निशाना , पुकारा  an antigen .
Each tip of the `` Y '' of an  एंटीबॉडी contains a paratope ( a ढांचा analogous to a ताला ) कि is विशिष्ट लिये एक particular  epitope ( similarly analogous to a key ) on an antigen , allowing these two structures to bind together with precision .
Using this binding mechanism , an antibody can tag a microbe or an infected cell for attack by other parts of the immune  प्रणाली , or can neutralize इसके निशाना सीधे ( लिये उदाहरण , by ब्लॉकिंग a भाग of a microbe कि is अनिवार्य लिये इसके आक्रमण और अस्तित्व  ) .
The  उत्पादन of antibodies is the प्रमुख  function of the humoral immune system .
Antibodies  हैं स्रावित by a प्रकार of श्वेत  blood cell called a plasma cell .
Antibodies can occur in two physical forms , a soluble form that is secreted from the cell , and a membrane -bound form  कि is संलग्न to the सतह of a b कोशिका और is referred to as the b  cell receptor ( BCR ) .
The BCR is only found on the surface of B  कोशिकाएं और facilitates the सक्रियण of ये कोशिकाएं और उनके subsequent differentiation into either एंटीबॉडी कारखानों पुकारा प्लाज्मा कोशिकाएं , or मेमोरी b कोशिकाएं कि  will survive in the body and remember that same antigen so the B cells can respond faster upon future exposure .
In most cases , interaction of the B cell with a T helper cell is necessary to  उपज पूरा सक्रियण of the b कोशिका और , इसलिए , एंटीबॉडी पीढी following  antigen binding .
Soluble antibodies are released  into the रक्त और ऊतक fluids , as खूब  as many secretions to continue to survey for invading microorganisms .
Antibodies are glycoproteins belonging to  the immunoglobulin superfamily ; the शर्तें एंटीबॉडी और immunoglobulin  are often used interchangeably .
Antibodies are typically made of basic structural  units—each साथ दो विशाल भारी जंजीरों  and two small light chains .
There are several different types of antibody heavy chains , and several different kinds  of antibodies , जिससे हैं grouped into अलग isotypes आधारित on जिससे भारी  chain they possess .
Five different antibody isotypes are known in mammals , which  perform अलग भूमिकाएँ , और सहायता सीधा the उचित  immune response for each different type of foreign object they encounter .
Though the general structure of  सब antibodies is बहुत समान , a छोटी प्रदेश at the टिप of the प्रोटीन is अत्यधिक परिवर्तनीय , allowing लाखो of  antibodies with slightly different tip structures , or antigen binding sites , to exist .
इस प्रदेश is ज्ञात as the  hypervariable region .
प्रत्येक of ये विसंगतियाँ can bind  to a different antigen .
This enormous diversity of antibodies allows the immune  प्रणाली to recognize an बराबर चौड़ी किस्में of  antigens .
The large and diverse population of antibodies is generated by random combinations of a set of gene segments that encode different  प्रतिजन बाइंडिंग साइट ( or paratopes ) , followed by यादृच्छिक mutations in इस  area of the antibody gene , which create further diversity .
Antibody genes also  re-organize in a प्रक्रम पुकारा क्लास switching कि परिवर्तन the आधार of the भारी कड़ी to another  , creating a different isotype of the antibody that retains the antigen specific variable region .
This allows a single antibody  to be प्रयुक्त by अनेक अलग  parts of the immune system .
The symbol used  by the zodiac कातिल to चिह्न  his correspondence
The Zodiac Killer was a  सीरियल कातिल जो संचालित in उत्तरी  California in the late 1960s and early 1970s .
The killer 's  पहचान remains  unknown .
The Zodiac murdered victims in Benicia , Vallejo ,  झील berryessa , और सैन फ्रांसिस्को between दिसम्बर 1968  and October 1969 .
चार मेन और तीन महिलाओं between  the ages of 16 and 29 were targeted .
the कातिल originated the नाम `` zodiac  '' in a series of taunting letters sent to the local Bay Area press .
These letters  शामिल चार cryptograms ( or ciphers  ) .
Of the four cryptograms sent , only one has been  definitively  solved .
Suspects  have महरूम नामित by विधि प्रवर्तन और amateur जांचकर्ताओं  , but no conclusive evidence has surfaced .
In April 2004 , the San Francisco Police  विभाग चिह्नित the मामला `` निष्क्रिय '' , yet re-opened  the case at some point prior to March 2007 .
the मामला भी remains खोलें in the नगर of  Vallejo , as well as in Napa County and Solano County .
The California Department of Justice  रै कायम an खोलें मामला संचिका on the zodiac हत्याएं चूंकि 1969  .
Jennings is a  छोटी नगर in और the मोहल्ला सीट of जेफरसन डेविस मोहल्ला  , Louisiana , United States , near Lake Charles .
The population was 10,383 at the 2010  जनसांख्यिकी , a छोटी मनाही इससे  the 2000 tabulation .
The city is 68  प्रतिशत श्वेत  .
जेनिंग्स is the प्रिंसिपल नगर of the जेनिंग्स  Micropolitan Statistical Area , which includes all of Jefferson Davis Parish .
It is also  भाग of the larger झील charles-jennings  Combined Statistical Area .
Nanotechnology ( sometimes  shortened to `` nanotech '' ) is the हेरफेर  of matter on an atomic and molecular scale .
The earliest , widespread description of nanotechnology referred to the particular technological goal of  precisely manipulating अणु और अणुओं लिये fabrication of macroscale उत्पाद , भी  now referred to as molecular nanotechnology .
A more generalized description of nanotechnology was subsequently established by the National  nanotechnology पहल , जिससे defines nanotechnology as the हेरफेर of पदार्थ साथ at तनिक एक आयाम sized  from 1 to 100 nanometers .
This definition reflects the fact that quantum mechanical effects are important at this quantum-realm scale , and so the definition  shifted इससे a particular technological लक्ष्य to a शोध श्रेणी समावेशी of सब प्रकार of शोध और technologies कि सौदे साथ the  special properties of matter that occur below the given size threshold .
It is therefore  आम to देखिए the बहुवचन रूप `` nanotechnologies  '' as well as `` nanoscale technologies '' to refer to the broad range of research and applications whose common trait is size .
Because of the variety of potential applications ( including  औद्योगिक और सैन्य ) , सरकारें have invested अरबों of डॉलर in nanotechnology  research .
through इसके नेशनल nanotechnology पहल , the  USA has invested 3.7 billion dollars .
The European Union  रै invested 1.2 अरब और जापानी  750 million dollars .
Nanotechnology as defined by size is naturally very broad , including  फ़ील्ड of विज्ञान as विविध as सतह विज्ञान , सशुल्क रसायन , आणविक जीवविज्ञान , सेमीकंडक्टर भौतिकी  , microfabrication , etc .
The associated research and applications are equally diverse , ranging from extensions of conventional device physics to completely  नई approaches आधारित upon आणविक self-assembly , इससे विकासशील नई सामग्री साथ आयाम on the nanoscale to  direct control of matter on the atomic scale .
Scientists  फिलहाल बहस the भविष्य implications  of nanotechnology .
Nanotechnology may be able to create many new materials and devices with a vast range  of अनुप्रयोग , ऐसे as in आयुर्विज्ञान , इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स ,  biomaterials and energy production .
On the other hand , nanotechnology raises many of the same issues as any new technology , including concerns about the toxicity  और पर्यावरणीय प्रभाव of nanomaterials , और उनके संभावित प्रभाव on वैश्विक अर्थशास्त्र , as खूब as अटकलें परिचय विभिन्न doomsday scenarios  .
These concerns have led to a  बहस among वकालत समूह और सरकारें on whether खास  regulation of nanotechnology is warranted .
Map of the  पूर्वी bloc
The term  पूर्वी bloc or कम्युनिस्ट bloc refers to the पूर्व कम्युनिस्ट राज्य of सेंट्रल और पूर्वी  Europe , generally the Soviet Union and the countries of the Warsaw Pact .
The terms Communist Bloc and Soviet Bloc  यहूद भी प्रयुक्त to denote groupings of राज्य लकीर साथ the सोवियत संघ , हालांकि ये शर्तें  might include states outside Central and Eastern Europe .
The New  जर्सी gubernatorial चुनाव  of 2009 took place on November 3 , 2009 .
Democratic Governor Jon Corzine was running for a second term and was being  challenged by रिपब्लिकन क्रिस क्रिस्टी , स्वतंत्र क्रिस्टोफर daggett और नौ अन्य , in जोड to अनेक write-in  candidates .
Christie won the  चुनाव , साथ परिचय 48.5 प्रतिशत of the vote , to 44.9 प्रतिशत  for Corzine and 5.8 percent for Daggett .
Christie won the largest margin for  a पहला पद रिपब्लिकन  since 1969 .
Christie assumed office  on जनवरी 19 , 2010  .
This was the first  चुनाव to भरण the newly निर्मित दफ्तर  of Lieutenant Governor .
The candidates for governor  और लेफ्टिनेंट राज्यपाल यहूद joined साथ as a सिंगल  choice , so that voters did not have the opportunity to split the ticket .
Kim Guadagno , Christie 's running mate , became New  जर्सी 's पहला लेफ्टिनेंट राज्यपाल following उसके उद्घाटन  .
स्वास्थ्य परवाह in the संयुक्त राज्य is provided  by many distinct organizations .
Health care facilities are  largely स्वामित्व और संचालित by निजी सेक्टर  businesses .
Health  बीमे लिये पब्लिक सेक्टर कर्मचारी  is primarily provided by the government .
60-65 % of healthcare  प्रावधान और बिता आता इससे  programs such as Medicare , Medicaid , TRICARE , the Children 's Health Insurance Program , and the Veterans Health Administration .
Most of the population under 65 is insured by their or a family  सदस्य 's नियोक्ता , कुछ ख़रीदे स्वास्थ्य बीमे on उनके  own , and the remainder are uninsured .
Of 17 high-income countries studied by the National  संस्थान of स्वास्थ्य in 2013 , the संयुक्त राज्य थी at or निकट the नीचे in शिशु मृत्यु , दिल  and lung disease , sexually transmitted infections , adolescent pregnancies , injuries , homicides , and rates of disability .
Together , such issues place the U.S. at the bottom  of the सूची लिये जीवन प्रत्याशा .
On average , a U.S. male can be  अपेक्षित to सजीव लगभग चार कम सालो than those in the top-ranked  country .
according to the संसार स्वास्थ्य संगठन ( जो ) , the संयुक्त  States spent more on health care per capita ( $ 7,146 ) , and more on health care as percentage of its GDP ( 15.2 % ) , than any other nation in 2008 .
The Commonwealth Fund ranked the United States last in the quality of health care  among समान देशों , और टीप u.S.  care costs the most .
The U.S. Census Bureau reported that 49.9 million residents , 16.3 % of the population , were uninsured in 2010 ( up from 49.0 million  निवासियों , 16.1 % of the जनसांख्यिकी , in 2009  ) .
A 2004 Institute of Medicine ( IOM ) report  कहा : `` the संयुक्त राज्य is among the few industrialized राष्ट्र in the संसार कि करता नहीं  guarantee access to health care for its population . ''
A 2004 OECD report said : `` With the exception of  मैक्सिको , तुर्कों , और the संयुक्त राज्य , सब oecd देशों था हासिल सार्वभौमिक  or near-universal ( at least 98.4 % insured ) coverage of their populations by 1990 . ''
A 2010 report observed that lack of  स्वास्थ्य बीमे कल्याणकारी roughly 48,000 अनावश्यक  deaths every year in the United States .
In 2007 , 62.1 % of filers for  bankruptcies claimed ऊँची चिकित्सा खर्च  .
A 2013  पढ़ाई मिला कि परिचय 25 % of सब वरिष्ठ नागरिकों घोषित दिवालियापन due to चिकित्सा खर्च  , and 43 % are forced to mortgage or sell their primary residence .
On March  23 , 2010 , the रोगी सुरक्षा और सस्ती परवाह अधिनियम ( ppaca ) became विधि , providing  for major changes in health insurance .
In physiology , body water is the water  सामग्री of the इंसान देह  .
a significant भिन्न  of the human body is water .
Arthur Guyton 's Textbook of Medical Physiology states that `` the total amount of water in a man  of औसत वज़न ( 70 गामा ) is लगभग 40 लीटर , averaging 57 प्रतिशत of उसके कुल  body weight .
In  a नवजात शिशु , इस may be as ऊँची as 75 प्रतिशत of the देह  weight , but it progressively decreases from birth to old age , most of the decrease occurring during the first 10 years of life .
Also ,  मोटापा decreases the प्रतिशत of जल in  the body , sometimes to as low as 45 percent '' .
These figures are statistical averages , so are  illustrative , और जैसे सब biostatistics , होगा vary साथ बाते जैसे प्रकार of  population , age and number of people sampled , and methodology .
So there is not , and can not be , a figure that is exactly  the वही लिये सब लोगों , लिये इस or कोई अन्य  physiological measure .
For example , Jackson 's ( 1985 ) Anatomy & Physiology for Nurses gives a  फिगर of 60 % लिये the proportion of body-weight attributable to जल , जिससे approximates  Guyton 's 57 % .
In diseased states where body water is affected , the  कम्पार्टमेंट or compartments कि have बदला can दे clues to the  nature of the problem .
Body water is regulated by hormones  , सहित anti-diuretic हार्मोन  ( ADH ) , aldosterone and atrial natriuretic peptide .
Per Netter 's Atlas  of इंसान physiology , देह जल  is broken down into the following compartments:
Intracellular  द्रव ( 2/3 of देह जल )  .
Per Guyton , in a body containing 40 litres of fluid , about 25 litres is intracellular ,  जिससे amounts to 62.5 % ( 5/8 ) , बंद पर्याप्त to  the 2/3 rule of thumb .
Jackson  's ग्रन्थ राज्य 70 % of देह द्रव  is intracellular .
extracellular द्रव (  1/3 of body water ) .
Per Guyton 's illustration , for a 40 litre body , about 15  लीटर is extracellular , जिससे amounts to 37.5 % again , इस is बंद to the  1/3 rule of thumb cited here .
Plasma ( 1/5 of  extracellular  fluid ) .
प्रति guyton 's उदाहरण , of the 15 लीटर  of extracellular fluid , plasma volume averages 3 litres .
This  amounts to 20 % , the वही  as per Netter 's Atlas .
अंतरालीय द्रव ( 4/5 of extracellular  fluid )
transcellular द्रव ( a.k.a . `` तीसरा स्पेस ,  '' normally ignored in calculations )
Contained inside organs , such as the  जठरांत्र , प्रमस्तिष्कमेरु , उदरावरणीय  , and ocular fluids .
self-esteem is a पद प्रयुक्त in मनोविज्ञान to प्रतिबिंबित a व्यक्ति  's overall emotional evaluation of his or her own worth .
It is a judgement of oneself as  खूब as an रवैया toward the  self .
Self-esteem  encompasses मान्यताओं ( लिये उदाहरण , ``  I am competent , '' `` I am worthy '' ) and emotions such as triumph , despair , pride and shame .
Smith and Mackie define it by  saying `` the self-concept is कया we सोचो परिचय the स्वः ; self-esteem  , is the positive or negative evaluations of the self , as in how we feel about it . ''
Self-esteem is also known as the evaluative dimension of  the स्वः कि शामिल जज्बात of worthiness , prides और  discouragement .
One 's  self-esteem is भी closely संबद्ध  with self-consciousness .
Self-esteem is a disposition that a person has which  represents उनके निर्णयों of उनके अपना worthiness .
In the  mid-1960s , मॉरिस rosenberg और social-learning  theorists defined self-esteem as a personal worth or worthiness .
Nathaniel Branden in 1969 defined self-esteem as ``  the अनुभव of होने competent to cope  with the basic challenges of life and being worthy of happiness . ''
According to Branden , self-esteem is the sum of  self-confidence ( a अहसास of निजी क्षमता ) और self-respect  ( a feeling of personal worth ) .
It exists as a consequence of the implicit judgement that every  व्यक्ति रै of उनके क्षमता to फेस जीवन 's चुनौतियां , to समझे और solve समस्याएं , और उनके सही  to achieve happiness , and be given respect .
As a social psychological  construct , self-esteem is आकर्षक क्युकी शोधकर्ताओं have conceptualized it as an influential predictor of  relevant outcomes , such as academic achievement ( Marsh 1990 ) or exercise behavior ( Hagger et al . 1998 ) .
In addition , self-esteem has also been treated as an  महत्वपूर्ण निष्कर्ष due to इसके बंद संबंध साथ मनोवैज्ञानिक  well-being ( Marsh 1989 ) .
Self-esteem can apply specifically to a particular dimension ( for example , `` I believe I am  a शुभ लेखक और i महसूस प्रसन्न परिचय कि '' ) or a वैश्विक extent ( लिये उदाहरण , `` i मानना i am  a bad person , and feel bad about myself in general '' ) .
Psychologists usually regard self-esteem as an enduring personality characteristic ( ``  trait '' self-esteem ) , हालांकि सामान्य , short-term विसंगतियाँ  ( `` state '' self-esteem ) also exist .
Synonyms or near-synonyms  of self-esteem शामिल : self-worth , self-regard  , self-respect , and self-integrity .
A Masonic Lodge ,  प्रायः termed a निजी आवास or constituent  Lodge , is the basic organisational unit of Freemasonry .
Every  नई आवास जरूर be warranted or चार्टर्ड by a ग्रैंड आवास , लकिन  is subject to its direction only in enforcing the published Constitution of the jurisdiction .
By exception the three surviving lodges that formed the world 's first known Grand  आवास in लंदन ( आज पुकारा the संयुक्त ग्रैंड आवास of इंग्लैण्ड ) have the अद्वितीय विशेषाधिकार to operate as समय immemorial i.e . बगैर ऐसे वारंट ; तभी एक  other lodge operates without a warrant - this is the Grand Stewards ' Lodge in London , although it is not also entitled to the `` time immemorial '' title .
A Freemason is generally entitled to visit any Lodge  , in कोई क्षेत्राधिकार ( i.e . अंतर्गत कोई  Grand Lodge ) in amity with his own .
In some jurisdictions this privilege is restricted to  निपुण masons ( कि is , freemasons जो have attained the अनुक्रम 's तीसरा  degree ) .
He is first usually  जरूरी to जाँच , और certify , the नियमितता  of the relationship of the Lodge - and be able to satisfy that Lodge of his regularity of membership .
Freemasons gather together as a Lodge to work the three basic Degrees of Entered Apprentice ,  fellowcraft और निपुण मेसन  .
Pilkington Group Limited is a multinational glass manufacturing company headquartered in St Helens , United Kingdom and a wholly owned  subsidiary of the japan-based एनएसजी समूह  .
Prior to its  अधिग्रहण by एनएसजी in 2006 it थी an स्वतंत्र कम्पनी सूचीबद्ध on the लंदन  Stock Exchange and for a time was a constituent of the FTSE 100 Index .
A quotation is the repetition of one expression as part of another one , particularly when the quoted expression is  well-known or explicitly attributed by citation to इसके असली सोर्स , और it is indicated by ( punctuated साथ  ) quotation marks .
A quotation can also refer to the repeated use of units of any other form  of अभिव्यक्ति , विशेषकर भाग of कलाकारी works : तत्व of a पेंटिंग , दृश्यों इससे a फिल्म or भाग  from a musical composition .
Year 1877 ( MDCCCLXXVII ) was a common year starting on  सोमवार ( कड़ी होगा प्रदर्शक the पूरा पंचांग ) of the gregorian पंचांग और a आम साल starting  on Saturday of the 12-day slower Julian calendar .
Black pepper ( Piper nigrum ) is a flowering vine in the family  piperaceae , cultivated लिये इसके फल , जिससे is प्रायः सूखी  and used as a spice and seasoning .
The fruit , known as a peppercorn when dried , is  लगभग in व्यास , अंधेरा रेड जब fully वयस्क , और , जैसे  all drupes , contains a single seed .
peppercorns , और the मैदान pepper निकला इससे उन्हें , may be वर्णित बस as pepper , or अधिक precisely as  black pepper ( cooked and dried unripe fruit ) , green pepper ( dried unripe fruit ) and white pepper ( dried ripe seeds ) .
Black pepper is native to  दक्षिण इण्डिया , और is extensively cultivated वहीँ  and elsewhere in tropical regions .
Currently Vietnam is the world 's largest producer and exporter of pepper  , producing 34 % of the संसार 's पाइपर nigrum क्रॉप as of 2008  .
Dried ground pepper has been  प्रयुक्त चूंकि प्राचीनता लिये दोनो इसके फ्लेवर  and as a medicine .
Black pepper is the  संसार 's सबसे traded मसाला  .
it is एक of the सबसे आम मसाले added to यूरोपीय भोजन  and its descendants .
The spiciness of black  pepper is due to the रासायनिक piperine , नहीं to be उलझन  with the capsaicin that gives fleshy peppers theirs .
It is in  the आधुनिक संसार  , often paired with salt .
Fire hydrant in  charlottesville , वर्जिनिया  , USA
A fire hydrant ( also known colloquially as a fire plug in the United States or as a johnny pump in New York City ) , is an active fire protection measure , and a source of water  provided in सबसे शहरी , suburban और ग्रामीण क्षेत्रों साथ नगरपालिका जल सेवा to enable अग्निशमन to tap into the नगरपालिका जल सप्लाई  to assist in extinguishing a fire .
Buildings near a hydrant may qualify for an insurance discount since firefighters should  be समर्थ to अधिक rapidly बुझा a आग on the insured  property .
The concept  of आग plugs  dates to at least the 17th century .
This was a time when firefighters responding to a call would dig  bas to the लकड़ी जल मेन्स और hastily bore a छेद to सुरक्षित  water to fight fires .
The water would fill the hole creating a temporary well , and be transported from  the खूब to the आग by बाल्टी brigades or , बाद  , by hand-pumped fire engines .
The  छेद यहूद तब plugged साथ stoppers  , normally redwood , which over time came to be known as fire plugs .
The location of  the प्लग होता प्रायः be अंकित or चिह्नित so कि it could  be reused in future fires .
This is the source of the colloquial term  आग प्लग स्टिल प्रयुक्त लिये आग hydrants आज  .
After the Great Fire of  लंदन in 1666 , the नगर संस्थापित जल मेन्स साथ छेद drilled at intervals , equipped  with risers , allowing an access point to the wooden fire plugs from street level .
The invention of a post- or pillar-type fire hydrant is  generally credited to फ्रेडरिक graff sr. , मुख्य इंजीनियर of the फिलाडेल्फिया जल works around  the year 1801 .
It  था a संयोजन hose/faucet आउटलेट और थी of `` गीला बैरल  '' design with the valve in the top .
It is said that Graff held the first patent for a fire hydrant , but this can not be verified  क्युकी the पेटेंट दफ्तर in वॉशिंगटन d.C. caught on आग in 1836 destroying अनेक पेटेंट रिकॉर्ड इससे कि काल in the प्रक्रम .
The President of the Republic of South  अफ़्रीकी is the सिर of राज्य और सिर  of government under South Africa 's Constitution .
From 1961 to 1994 , the head  of राज्य थी पुकारा the राज्य  President .
The President is elected by members of the National Assembly ,  the निम्नतर हाउस of पार्लियामेंट , और is प्रायः the नेता of the largest पार्टी ,  which has been the African National Congress since the first non-racial elections were held on 27 April 1994 .
The role was originally founded to be distinct from the now defunct role of prime  मंत्री , लकिन the दो भूमिकाएँ यहूद मिलाया in the 1983 संविधान जिससे  specified a four-year term of office .
The 1993 and later constitutions  हद the अध्यक्ष 's समय in दफ्तर to दो five-year  terms .
The first President to be elected under the new  संविधान थी नेल्सन मंडेला , और the लाज़िम अध्यक्ष is याक़ूब zuma .
Under the interim Constitution ( valid  इससे 1994 to 1996 ) , वहीँ थी a सरकारी of नेशनल एकता  , in which an MP from the largest opposition party was entitled to a position as Deputy President .
Along with Thabo Mbeki , the last State President , F.W . De Klerk also served  as डिप्टी अध्यक्ष , in उसके क्षमता as the नेता of  the National Party which was the second-largest party in the new Parliament .
But De Klerk later resigned  और गई into विपक्ष  with his party .
A voluntary coalition  सरकारी continues to मौजूद अंतर्गत the नई संविधान ( अपनाया in 1996 ) , हालांकि  there have been no appointments of opposition politicians to the post of deputy president .
Special education or special needs education is the education of students  साथ खास needs in a रास्ता कि पता the विद्यार्थी ' व्यक्तिगत मतभेद  and needs .
Ideally , this process involves the individually  नियोजित और systematically monitored व्यवस्था of शिक्षण प्रक्रियाओं , adapted उपकरण और सामग्री , accessible जमावट  , and other interventions designed to help learners with special needs achieve a higher level of personal self-sufficiency and success in school and community than would be available if the student were only given access to a typical classroom education .
Common special needs include challenges with learning ,  संचार चुनौतियां , emotional और behavioral विकार , शारीरिक disabilities  , and developmental disorders .
Students with these kinds of special needs are likely to benefit from  अतिरिक्त शैक्षणिक सेवाएं ऐसे as अलग approaches to शिक्षण , उपयोग of  technology , a specifically adapted teaching area , or resource room .
Intellectual giftedness is a difference in learning and can  भी लाभ इससे specialized शिक्षण तकनीकों or अलग शैक्षणिक कार्यक्रम , लकिन the पद `` खास शिक्षा '' is generally प्रयुक्त to specifically  indicate instruction of students whose special needs reduce their ability to learn independently or in an ordinary classroom , and gifted education is handled separately .
In most  विकसित देशों , शिक्षक हैं modifying शिक्षण विधि और environments  so that the maximum number of students are served in general education environments .
Special education in developed countries is  प्रायः regarded कम as a `` प्लेस '' और अधिक as  `` a range of services , available in every school . ''
Integration can  reduce सोशल stigmas और improve अकादमिक  achievement for many students .
The opposite of special  शिक्षा is सामान्य शिक्षा  .
General education is the standard  curriculum प्रस्तुत साथ मानक शिक्षण विधि और बगैर अतिरिक्त  supports .
George Soros ( or ; ; ; born August 12 , 1930 , as Schwartz  györgy ) is a hungarian-american कारोबार  magnate , investor , and philanthropist .
He is the chairman  of सोरोस निधि प्रबन्धन  .
Soros  supports progressive-liberal  causes .
He is known as `` The Man Who Broke the Bank of England `` because of his in  निवेश profits दौरान the 1992 ब्लैक बुधवार uk करेंसी  crisis .
Between 1979 and  2011 , सोरोस दिया दूर over $ 8 अरब to इंसान  rights , public health , and education causes .
He played a significant role in  the शांतिपूर्ण परिवर्तन इससे साम्यवादी to पूंजीवाद in हंगेरियाई ( 1984–89  ) and provided one of Europe 's largest higher education endowments to Central European University in Budapest .
Soros is also  the अध्यक्ष of the खोलें समाज संस्थान  .
An actor portraying Alexander  ग्राहम घंटी बोलना into an जल्दी मॉडल  telephone .
The invention of the telephone is the culmination of work done by many individuals ,  the इतिहास of जिससे involves a संग्रहण of दावा और counterclaims  .
the विकास of the आधुनिक विद्युत टेलीफोन शामिल an सरणी of  lawsuits founded upon the patent claims of several individuals and numerous companies .
This article covers the early years from 1844 to 1898 , from conception of  the विचार of an इलेक्ट्रिक voice-transmission यंत्र , to विफल कोशिशें to उपयोग `` make-and-break '' वर्तमान , to कामयाब  experiments with electromagnetic telephones by Alexander Graham Bell and Thomas Watson , and finally to commercially successful telephones in the late 19th century .
A Master of  ठीक कला ( mfa , m.f.a . ) is a ग्रैजुएट उपाधि typically requiring 2–3 सालो of postgraduate पढ़ाई परे  the bachelor 's degree ( BFA ) , although the term of study will vary by country or by university .
The  mfa is a रचनात्मक उपाधि प्रायः awarded as a टर्मिनल उपाधि  in visual arts , creative writing , filmmaking , dance , or theatre and other performing arts .
Coursework is primarily of an applied or performing nature  साथ the कार्यक्रम प्रायः culminating in a प्रमुख कार्य or प्रदर्शन  .
Master of Fine Arts programs have  generally जरूरी a स्नातक 's उपाधि prior to प्रवेश , लकिन अनेक do नहीं आवश्यकता कि  the undergraduate major be the same as the MFA field of study .
The most important admissions requirement  रै प्रायः महरूम a नमूना पोर्टफोलियो or a प्रदर्शन ऑडिशन  .
The Master of Fine Arts differs from the Master of Arts in that the MFA , while an academic program , centers around  अभ्यास in the particular फ़ील्ड , whereas कार्यक्रम अग्रणी to the ma प्रायः  center on the scholarly , academic , or critical study of the field .
Additionally , in the United States , an MFA is recognized as a terminal degree for practitioners of Visual Art , Design , Dance , Theatre , Film/Video , New Media , and  रचनात्मक लिखने - अर्थ कि it is माना to be the उच्चतम उपाधि in इसके फ़ील्ड , और is प्रयुक्त as a न्यूनतम योग्यता  to be able to apply to become a Full-Time Professor teaching at the University level in these disciplines .
There are exceptions to this standard in the Arts , notably in the  मामला of म्यूज़िक प्रदर्शन , जहाँ the mfa is नहीं देखी as a टर्मिनल उपाधि in the  context of the more standardized DMA degree .
It is also critical to note that in the interest of extending the connection between creative production and  जारी अकादमिक शोध , कुछ विश्वविद्यालयों have स्थापित practice-based ph.d कार्यक्रम in फ़ील्ड ऐसे as रचनात्मक लिखने , विज़ुअल कला , नई  media , design and theater .
While this has had an effect in Creative Writing , and to a lesser extent in design and new media , the influx of graduates  इससे practice-based phd कार्यक्रम रै नहीं appreciably बदला the मानक लिये the mfa as the टर्मिनल  degree in most Arts disciplines yet .
This is an ongoing contentious topic , and is the frequent subject of  अकादमिक panels , विशेषकर at the सालाना कॉलेज आर्ट संघ  conference .
The CAA 2008 guidelines  regarding the mfa strongly re-affirms कि the phd is नहीं जरूरी as  a terminal degree in the visual arts .
The atomic bombings of the  शहरों of हिरोशिमा और नागासाकी in जापानी यहूद conducted  by the United States during the final stages of World War II in 1945 .
the दो कार्यक्रम हैं the  only use of nuclear weapons in war to date .
Following a firebombing campaign that destroyed many Japanese  शहरों , the allies prepared लिये a costly आक्रमण of जापानी  .
The war in Europe ended when Nazi Germany  हस्ताक्षरित इसके यंत्र of आत्मसमर्पण on 8 may , लकिन the प्रशांत युद्ध  continued .
Together with the United  किंगडम और the गणतंत्र of चीन , the संयुक्त राज्य पुकारा लिये a आत्मसमर्पण of जापानी  in the Potsdam Declaration on 26 July 1945 , threatening Japan with `` prompt and utter destruction '' .
The Japanese government ignored this ultimatum ,  और the संयुक्त राज्य तैनात दो नाभिकीय हथियार  developed by the Manhattan Project .
American airmen dropped Little Boy on the city of  हिरोशिमा on 6 अगस्त 1945 , followed by मोटे man over नागासाकी on  9 August .
Within the first two to four  महीने of the bombings , the अधि प्रभाव मारे 90,000–166,000 लोगों in हिरोशिमा और 60,000–80,000 in नागासाकी  , with roughly half of the deaths in each city occurring on the first day .
The Hiroshima  प्रीफ़ेक्चर स्वास्थ्य विभाग अनुमानित कि , of the लोगों जो died on the दिन of the विस्फोट , 60 %  died from flash or flame burns , 30 % from falling debris and 10 % from other causes .
During the following months , large  संख्याएँ died इससे the प्रभाव of burns , विकिरण बीमारी , और अन्य  injuries , compounded by illness .
In a US estimate of the  कुल तात्कालिक और छोटी पद कारण of मौत , 15–20 % died इससे विकिरण बीमारी  , 20–30 % from burns , and 50–60 % from other injuries , compounded by illness .
In both cities ,  सबसे of the मुर्दे यहूद नागरिकों , हालांकि  Hiroshima had a sizeable garrison .
On 15 August , six days  बाद the bombing of नागासाकी , जापानी घोषित इसके आत्मसमर्पण to the allies  , signing the Instrument of Surrender on 2 September , officially ending World War II .
The bombings led , in part , to post-war Japan 's adopting Three  non-nuclear सिद्धान्त , forbidding the स्वदेश इससे नाभिकीय armament  .
The role of the bombings in Japan 's  आत्मसमर्पण और उनके नैतिक औचित्य हैं  still debated .
Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi ( ; 2 October 1869 – 30 January 1948 ) , commonly known as Mahatma Gandhi , was  the preeminent नेता of भारतीय राष्ट्रवाद in british-ruled  India .
Employing non-violent civil disobedience , Gandhi led India to independence  और प्रेरित आंदोलनों लिये non-violence , सिविल अधिकारों और स्वतंत्रता आरपार the  world .
The son of a senior government official ,  गांधी थी born और उठाया in a हिन्दू bania जातियाँ in तटीय  Gujarat , and trained in law in London .
Gandhi became famous by fighting for the  सिविल अधिकारों of मुस्लिम और हिन्दू इंडियंस in दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी , using नई तकनीकों of non-violent  civil disobedience that he developed .
Returning to  इण्डिया in 1915 , he नियत परिचय organising peasants to विरोध  excessive land-taxes .
A lifelong  प्रतिद्वन्दी of `` सांप्रदायिकता `` ( i.e . basing राजनीती on धर्म  ) he reached out widely to all religious groups .
He became a leader of Muslims protesting  the घटती औकात of  the Caliphate .
Assuming leadership of the Indian National Congress  in 1921 , गांधी led देशभर अभियान लिये easing गरीबी , expanding महिलाओं 's अधिकारों , भवन धार्मिक और जातीय सौहार्द , समाप्ति अस्पृश्यता , increasing आर्थिक self-reliance  , and above all for achieving Swaraj —the independence of India from British domination .
Gandhi led Indians in protesting the national salt tax with the Dandi Salt March in 1930 , and later in  demanding the अंग्रेजों to तत्काल छोड़ो इण्डिया in 1942 , दौरान संसार युद्ध ii  .
He was imprisoned  लिये कि और लिये numerous अन्य राजनैतिक offenses  over the years .
Gandhi sought to practice non-violence and  सच्चाई in सब परिस्थितियों , और advocated  that others do the same .
He saw the villages as the core  of the सच्चा इण्डिया और प्रचारित self-sufficiency ; he किया नहीं support the industrialization  programs of his disciple Jawaharlal Nehru .
He lived modestly in a self-sufficient residential community and wore the traditional  भारतीय धोती और चादर , woven साथ धागे he था हाथ spun on a  charkha .
His  मुख्य राजनैतिक दुश्मन in ब्रिटेन थी विंस्टन चर्चिल ,  who ridiculed him as a `` half-naked fakir . ''
He was a dedicated vegetarian , and  undertook long fasts as अर्थात् of दोनो self-purification और राजनैतिक  mobilization .
In his last year , unhappy at the partition of India , Gandhi worked to stop the carnage between Muslims ,  हिन्दुओं और सिखों कि raged in the किनारा  area between India and Pakistan .
He was assassinated on 30 January  1948 by nathuram गोडसे जो विचार गांधी थी too  sympathetic to India 's Muslims .
30 January is observed as  शहीदो ' दिन in इण्डिया  .
The honorific Mahatma ( ``  ग्रेट आत्मा '' ) थी लागू to उसे  by 1914 .
In  इण्डिया he थी भी पुकारा bapu  ( `` Father '' ) .
He is known in India as the  पिता of the स्वदेश ; उसके जन्मदिवस , 2 अक्तूबर , is commemorated वहीँ as गांधी jayanti , a नेशनल अवकाश  , and world-wide as the International Day of Non-Violence .
Gandhi 's  दर्शनशास्त्र थी नहीं सैद्धांतिक लकिन एक of व्यावहारिकतावाद , कि  is , practicing his principles in the moment .
Asked to give a  संदेश to the लोगों , he होता respond  , `` My life is my message . ''
Joan Crawford ( March 23 , ca . 1904 – May 10 , 1977 ) , born  lucille fay lesueur , थी an अमरीकी अभिनेत्री in फिल्मी , टेलीविज़न  and theatre .
Starting as a dancer in traveling theatrical companies before debuting on Broadway ,  क्रॉफर्ड थी हस्ताक्षरित to a गति चित्र अनुबंध by metro-goldwyn-mayer  in 1925 .
Initially frustrated by the size and quality of her  भाग , क्रॉफर्ड began a अभियान of self-publicity और became nationally ज्ञात  as a flapper by the end of the 1920s .
In the 1930s , Crawford 's fame  rivaled , और बाद outlasted , mgm सहयोगियों norma शियर्र और greta  Garbo .
क्रॉफर्ड प्रायः निभाई मेहनती यंग  women who find romance and financial success .
These ``  rags-to-riches '' कहानियां यहूद खूब प्राप्त by अवसाद -era ऑडियंस  and were popular with women .
Crawford became one of Hollywood 's most  prominent फिल्म सितारों और एक of the उच्चतम सशुल्क महिलाओं in the संयुक्त राज्य , लकिन उसके films began खोने धन और by the समाप्त  of the 1930s she was labeled `` box office poison '' .
After an absence of nearly two years from the screen , Crawford  मंचन a वापसी by अभिनीत in मिल्ड्रेड पियर्स ( 1945 ) , लिये जिससे वो जीती the अकादमी पुरस्कार  for Best Actress .
In 1955 , she became involved with the Pepsi-Cola  कम्पनी through उसके विवाह to कम्पनी अध्यक्ष अल्फ्रेड  Steele .
बाद उसके मौत in 1959 , क्रॉफर्ड थी निर्वाचित  to fill his vacancy on the board of directors but was forcibly retired in 1973 .
She continued acting in film and television regularly  through the 1960s , जब उसके प्रदर्शन became कम ; बाद the रिलीज of the  British horror film Trog in 1970 , Crawford retired from the screen .
Following a public appearance in 1974 , after which unflattering  छायाचित्र यहूद प्रकाशित , क्रॉफर्ड withdrew इससे पब्लिक जीवन और became increasingly reclusive  until her death in 1977 .
क्रॉफर्ड शादीशुदा  four times .
Her first three marriages ended in divorce ; the  पिछला ended साथ the मौत of husband अल्फ्रेड स्टील .
She adopted five children , one of  जिसको थी reclaimed by उसके जनम  mother .
क्रॉफर्ड 's संबंध साथ उसके दो पुरानी children  , Christina and Christopher , were acrimonious .
Crawford disinherited the two and , after Crawford 's death , Christina wrote a `` tell-all '' memoir , Mommie Dearest , in which she alleged a lifelong pattern of  शारीरिक और emotional गाली perpetrated by क्रॉफर्ड  .
She  थी voted the दसवाँ महानतम मादा स्टार in the इतिहास of  American cinema by the American Film Institute .
1910 Buick  tonneau बगैर tonneau  cover
1903  घाट मॉडल a rear-door  Tonneau
1903 lanchester  rear-door Tonneau
tonneau कवर ( or ) describes a मुश्किल or नरम कवर प्रयुक्त to protect unoccupied यात्री सीटे  in a convertible or roadster , or the cargo bed in a pickup truck .
Hard tonneau covers open by a hinging or  फोल्डिंग यांत्रिकी जबकि नरम कवर खोलें by रोलिंग  up .
The tonneau  कवर is प्रयुक्त to छिपाते  cargo .
When the cover is pulled out , it keeps items out of the sun and provides  अतिरिक्त सुरक्षा by keeping निजी वस्तुएं आउट of sight  , as well as shielding the driver from view .
Twitter is an online social networking service and  microblogging सेवा कि enables इसके उपयोक्ता to भेजें और पढ़ा text-based संदेश of  up to 140 characters , known as `` tweets '' .
Twitter was created in March 2006 by Jack  dorsey और by जुलाई , the सोशल नेटवर्किंग साईट थी शुभारम्भ  .
The service rapidly gained worldwide popularity , with over 500 million  पंजीकृत उपयोक्ता as of 2012 , generating over 340 लाख tweets रोज़ और हैंडलिंग over  1.6 billion search queries per day .
Since its launch , Twitter has become one of the  टेन सबसे visited वेबसाइटों on the अंतरजाल , और रै महरूम वर्णित as  `` the SMS of the Internet . ''
Unregistered users can read tweets , while registered users  can पोस्ट tweets through the जालस्थल इंटरफ़ेस , sms , or a दायरा  of apps for mobile devices .
Twitter Inc. is based in San Francisco , with additional  सर्वर और कार्यालयों in नई यॉर्क नगर , बोस्टन , और सैन अंतोनियो  .
The Hangover is a 2009 American comedy film , co-produced and  निर्देशित by टॉड phillips और लिखा  by Jon Lucas and Scott Moore .
It is the first  फिल्मी of the hangover मताधिकार .the फिल्मी सितारों ब्राडली कूपर , ed helms , zach  Galifianakis , Heather Graham , Justin Bartha , and Jeffrey Tambor .
The Hangover tells the story of Phil Wenneck , Stu Price and Alan Garner , who travel to Las Vegas  लिये a स्नातक पार्टी to celebrate उनके dost डग billings ' impending विवाह  .
However , Phil , Stu and Alan have no memory of the previous night 's  कार्यक्रम और जरूर ढूँढें डग पहले the विवाह can लो प्लेस  .
Lucas and Moore wrote the script after executive  निर्माता क्रिस bender 's dost disappeared और था  a large bill after being sent to a strip club .
After Lucas and Moore sold it to the studio for $ 2 million , Philips and Jeremy Garelick rewrote the script to  शामिल a बाघ as खूब as a subplot involving a baby और a पुलिस क्रूजर  , and also including boxer Mike Tyson .
Filming took place in Nevada for 15 days , and during filming , the three main  अभिनेताओं ( कूपर , helms और galifianakis ) formed a  friendship .
The Hangover was released on June 5 , 2009 ,  बनने a नाजुक और वाणिज्यिक  success .
It became  the tenth-highest-grossing फिल्मी of 2009 , साथ a विश्वव्यापी  gross of over US $ 467 million .
Critics praised the  फिल्मी 's comedic दृष्टिकोण लकिन criticized  it for its vulgarity .
The film won the Golden Globe Award for Best Motion  चित्र – musical or कॉमेडी , और प्राप्त अनेक  other accolades .
It is the  tenth-highest-grossing फिल्मी of 2009 in the संसार , as खूब as the दूसरी highest-grossing r-rated कॉमेडी कभी in the संयुक्त राज्य , surpassing a रिकार्ड  previously held by Beverly Hills Cop for almost 25 years and later being surpassed by Ted in 2012 .
Out of all R-rated films , it is the third  highest-grossing कभी in the u.S. , पीछे तभी the जुनून of the मसीह और the  Matrix Reloaded .
A sequel , The Hangover Part II , was released in 2011 ,  और a तीसरा और फाइनल फिल्मी , the hangover भाग iii , is नियत लिये रिलीज in 2013 .
Events involving meiosis  , प्रर्दशित chromosomal  crossover
Meiosis ( ) is a special type of  कोशिका प्रभाग जरुरी लिये यौन  reproduction in eukaryotes .
The cells produced  by meiosis हैं गैमीट  or spores .
In many organisms , including all  पशु और जमीन पौधे ( लकिन नहीं कुछ अन्य समूह ऐसे  as fungi ) , gametes are called sperm and egg cells .
Whilst the process of meiosis bears a number of  similarities साथ the 'life-cycle ' कोशिका प्रभाग प्रक्रम of समसूत्रण , it differs in दो  important respects:
the chromosomes in meiosis undergo a recombination which  shuffles the जीनों producing a अलग जेनेटिक संयोजन in प्रत्येक gamete , compared साथ the co-existence of प्रत्येक of the दो पृथक pairs of प्रत्येक  chromosome ( one received from each parent ) in each cell which results from mitosis .
the outcome of meiosis is potentially four ( genetically  अद्वितीय ) अगुणित कोशिकाएं , compared साथ the दो ( genetically एकसमान  ) diploid cells produced from mitosis .
Meiosis begins with  एक द्विगुणित कोशिका containing दो नक़ल of प्रत्येक chromosome  —one from the organism 's mother and one from its father .
The cell divides twice , potentially  producing up to चार अगुणित कोशिकाएं containing  one copy of each chromosome .
( ``  potentially '' क्युकी in कुछ मामले , ऐसे as the गठन of  oocytes in mammals , only one of the possible four haploid cells survives . )
In animals the  अगुणित कोशिका resulting इससे meiosis is a पुरूष  or female gamete .
Each of the resulting chromosomes in the gamete cells is a unique mixture of  मातृ और पैतृक डीएनए , resulting in औलाद कि हैं genetically पृथक  from either parent .
This gives rise  to जेनेटिक विविधता in sexually reproducing  populations .
This genetic diversity can provide the variation of physical and behavioural attributes ( phenotypes ) upon  जिससे प्राकृतिक चयन can अधिनियम , लकिन , as वर्णित नीचे in खण्ड 6 , उत्पत्ति और फलन of meiosis , the जेनेटिक विविधता may  be largely a by-product of the homologous recombination that is primarily employed for its DNA repair function during meiosis .
It is also noteworthy that during meiosis , specific genes are more highly  transcribed , और ये हैं पुकारा the meiome , the पद प्रयुक्त in कार्यात्मक जीनोमिक्स  for the meiotic transcriptome .
Meiosis  is a कुंजी विशेषता लिये सब sexually reproducing  eukaryotes in which homologous chromosome pairing , synapse and recombination occur .
In addition to strong meiotic  stage-specific अभिव्यक्ति of mrna ( the meiome ) , however , वहीँ हैं भी pervasive translational  controls ( e.g . selective usage of preformed mRNA ) , regulating the ultimate meiotic stage-specific protein expression of genes during meiosis .
Thus  , दोनो the meiome और translational नियंत्रण  determine the broad restructuring of meiotic cells needed to carry out meiosis .
Prior to the meiosis process the cell 's chromosomes are duplicated by a round of DNA replication , creating from the maternal and paternal  संस्करण of प्रत्येक chromosome ( homologs ) दो सटीक नक़ल , सिस्टर chromatids ,  attached at the centromere region .
In the beginning of meiosis  the मातृ और पैतृक homologs जोड़ी  to each other .
Then they  typically एक्सचेंज भाग by समजात recombination अग्रणी to crossovers of डीएनए between the मातृ  and paternal versions of the chromosome .
spindle मछली bind to the centromeres of प्रत्येक जोड़ी of homologs और arrange  the pairs at the spindle equator .
Then the  मछली खींचो the recombined  homologs to opposite poles of the cell .
As the chromosomes move away from the center the cell divides into two daughter cells ,  प्रत्येक containing a अगुणित क्रमांक of गुणसूत्रों रचित of दो chromatids  .
After the recombined maternal and paternal  homologs have अलग into the दो बेटी कोशिकाएं , a दूसरी  round of cell division occurs .
There meiosis ends as the two sister  chromatids बनाना up प्रत्येक homolog हैं अलग  and move into one of the four resulting gamete cells .
upon fertilization , लिये उदाहरण जब a शुक्राणु enters  an egg cell , two gamete cells produced by meiosis fuse .
The gamete from the mother and the gamete from the  पिता प्रत्येक योगदान एक हाफ of the नियत of गुणसूत्रों  that make up the new offspring 's genome .
meiosis उपयोग अनेक of the वही mechanisms as समसूत्रण , a प्रकार of कोशिका प्रभाग प्रयुक्त by eukaryotes जैसे पौधे  and animals to split one cell into two identical daughter cells .
In all plants and in  अनेक protists meiosis परिणाम in the गठन of  spores : haploid cells that can divide vegetatively without undergoing fertilization .
Boxing ( pugilism , prize fighting , the sweet science or in  यूनानी pygmachia ) is a martial आर्ट और कॉम्बैट खेल in जिससे दो लोगों engage in a प्रतियोगिता of  strength , speed , reflexes , endurance and will by throwing punches with gloved hands .
Amateur boxing is an Olympic and Commonwealth sport and is a common  fixture in सबसे of the प्रमुख अंतरराष्ट्रीय खेल - it भी रै इसके अपना संसार championships  .
Boxing is supervised by a referee over a series  of one- to three-minute intervals पुकारा rounds  .
The result is decided when an opponent is deemed incapable to continue by a referee , is disqualified for  तोड़कर a नियम , resigns by फेंकना in a तौलिया , or is सुनाया the विजेता or हारा आधारित on the न्यायाधीशों '  scorecards at the end of the contest .
The birth hour of boxing as a sport may be its  स्वीकृति by the प्राचीन यूनानियों as an ओलम्पिक खेल as  early as 688 BC .
मुक्केबाज़ी विकसित इससे 16th- और 18th-century prizefights , largely in ग्रेट ब्रिटेन  , to the forerunner of modern boxing in the mid-19th century , again initially in Great Britain and later in the United States .
In 2004 , ESPN ranked boxing as  the सबसे मुश्किल खेल in  the world .
Agreement or concord  happens जब a शब्द परिवर्तन रूप depending on the अन्य शब्द to जिससे it  relates .
It is an instance of inflection , and usually involves making the  मान of कुछ व्याकरणिक श्रेणी ( ऐसे as लिंग or व्यक्ति ) `` सहमत '' between  different words or parts of the sentence .
For example , in Standard English , one may say I am or  he is , लकिन नहीं `` i is '' or `` he  am '' .
This is because the  व्याकरण of the भाषा requires कि the क्रिया और  its subject agree in person .
The pronouns I  और he हैं पहला और तीसरा व्यक्ति क्रमशः , as  are the verb forms am and is .
The verb form must be selected so that it  रै the वही व्यक्ति as the विषय  .
The agreement based on overt grammatical  श्रेणी as ऊपर is औपचारिक अनुबंध , in कंट्रास्ट to notional अनुबंध  , which is based on meaning .
For  उदाहरण , the phrase the संयुक्त राज्य  is treated as singular for purposes of agreement , even though it is formally plural .
इस is a सूची of स्थान नीचे औसत समुद्र  level that are on land .
Places in tunnels , mines , basements , dug holes ( also with  खोलें आसमान ) , अंतर्गत जल , अंतर्गत बर्फ , or मौजूदा temporarily as a परिणाम of ebbing  of sea tide etc . are not included .
All figures are  in मीटर नीचे समुद्र  level:
Debbie Macomber ( born October 22 , 1948 in Yakima , Washington ) is a best-selling  अमरीकी लेखक of over 150 रोमांस novels और समकालीन महिलाओं 's fiction  .
Over 140  लाख नक़ल of उसके किताबे हैं in  print throughout the world , and four have become made-for-TV-movies .
Macomber was the inaugural  विजेता of the fan-voted quill पुरस्कार लिये रोमांस in 2005 और रै महरूम awarded दोनो a रोमांस लेखक of  America RITA and a lifetime achievement award by the Romance Writers of America .
catonsville is a census-designated प्लेस  ( CDP ) in Baltimore County , Maryland , United States .
The population was 41,567  at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी  .
The community lies to the west of Baltimore along  the नगर 's किनारा  .
catonsville is the घर of the विश्वविद्यालयों of मेरीलैंड  , Baltimore County ( UMBC ) , a public research university with over 12,000 students .
A  वकील , according to ब्लैक 's विधि शब्दकोष , is `` a व्यक्ति सीखे in the विधि ;  as an attorney , counsel or solicitor ; a person who is practicing law . ''
Law is the system of rules of conduct established by the sovereign government of a  समाज to सही wrongs , maintain the स्थिरता of राजनैतिक और सोशल प्राधिकार , और उद्धार  justice .
Working as a lawyer  involves the व्यावहारिक अनुप्रयोग of अमूर्त विधिक theories और ज्ञान to solve विशिष्ट individualized  problems , or to advance the interests of those who retain ( i.e. , hire ) lawyers to perform legal services .
The role  of the वकील varies significantly आरपार विधिक jurisdictions  , and so it can be treated here in only the most general terms .
Vector Marketing is the  घरेलू बिक्री भुजा of cutco निगम , an olean , नई यॉर्क आधारित  cutlery manufacturer .
The Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 ( FMLA ) is a United States federal law requiring covered employers to provide employees job-protected and unpaid leave  लिये योग्य चिकित्सा और परिवार कारण .
Qualified  चिकित्सा और परिवार कारण शामिल : निजी or परिवार  illness , family military leave , pregnancy , adoption , or the foster care placement of a child .
The FMLA is  administered by the मजदूरी और घंटा प्रभाग  of the United States Department of Labor .
The bill was  a प्रमुख भाग of अध्यक्ष विधेयक क्लिंटन 's कार्यसूची in  his first term .
President Clinton signed the bill into law on February 5 , 1993 ( ; 29 U.S.C .  सेक . 2601 ; 29 cfr 825 ) और it took प्रभाव on अगस्त 5 , 1993 , छह महीने बाद  .
The FMLA was intended `` to  संतुलन the मांगे of the  workplace with the needs of families . ''
The Act allows eligible employees to take up to 12 work weeks of unpaid leave  दौरान कोई 12-month काल to attend to the गंभीर स्वास्थ्य कंडीशन of the कर्मचारी , जनक , जीवनसाथी or चाइल्ड , or लिये गर्भावस्था or परवाह  of a newborn child , or for adoption or foster care of a child .
In order to be eligible for FMLA leave , an employee must have been at the  कारोबार at तनिक 12 महीने , और worked at तनिक 1,250 घंटों over the पास्ट 12 महीने , और कार्य  at a location where the company employs 50 or more employees within 75 miles .
The FMLA covers both public- and private-sector employees ,  लकिन निश्चित श्रेणी of कर्मचारी हैं excluded , सहित निर्वाचित officials और उनके निजी स्टाफ सदस्यों  .
The Vietnam War ( ) was a Cold War -era military conflict  कि occurred in वियतनाम , लाओस , और कंबोडिया इससे 1 नवम्बर 1955 to  the fall of Saigon on 30 April 1975 .
This war followed the First Indochina War and was fought between North Vietnam , supported by its communist allies , and the  सरकारी of दक्षिण वियतनाम , समर्थित by the संयुक्त  States and other anti-communist countries .
The Viet Cong ( also known as the National Liberation Front , or NLF ) , a lightly  हथियारबंद दक्षिण वियतनामी कम्युनिस्ट आम सामने निर्देशित by the उत्तर , largely लड़ा a छापामार युद्ध विरूद्ध  anti-communist forces in the region .
The Vietnam People 's Army ( North Vietnamese Army ) engaged in a more conventional war , at  टाइम्स committing विशाल इकाई into बैटल  .
U.S. and South Vietnamese forces relied on air superiority and overwhelming  firepower to conduct ढूंढें और नष्ट परिचालन , involving  ground forces , artillery , and airstrikes .
The U.S. government viewed  भागीदारी in the युद्ध as a रास्ता to prevent a कम्युनिस्ट कब्ज़ा of दक्षिण वियतनाम as भाग of उनके wider रणनीति of  containment .
The North Vietnamese government and Viet Cong were fighting  to reunify वियतनाम अंतर्गत कम्युनिस्ट  rule .
They viewed the conflict as a colonial war , fought initially against  फ़्रांस , समर्थित by the u.S. , और बाद विरूद्ध दक्षिण वियतनाम , जिससे it  regarded as a U.S. puppet state .
American military  advisors arrived in कया थी तब  French Indochina beginning in 1950 .
U.S. involvement escalated in the early 1960s , with troop levels  tripling in 1961 और tripling again in 1962  .
U.S. combat units were  तैनात शुरूआत in  1965 .
Operations spanned international borders ,  साथ लाओस और कंबोडिया heavily bombed  .
American involvement in the  युद्ध peaked in 1968 , at the समय of the  Tet Offensive .
After this , U.S. ground  शक्तियां यहूद धीरे withdrawn  as part of a policy known as Vietnamization .
Despite the  पेरिस सलाम accords ,  signed by all parties in January 1973 , fighting continued .
U.S. military involvement ended on 15 August 1973 as a result of the  case–church amendment passed  by the U.S. Congress .
The capture of Saigon  by the वियतनाम लोगों 's फौज in अप्रैल 1975 चिह्नित the समाप्त of the युद्ध , और  North and South Vietnam were reunified the following year .
The war exacted a huge human cost in terms  of fatalities ( देखिए वियतनाम युद्ध हताहत  ) .
Estimates of the number of Vietnamese  सैनिको और नागरिकों मारे vary  from 800,000 to 3.1 million .
Some 200,000–300,000 Cambodians , 20,000–200,000  laotians , और 58,220 u.S. सेवा सदस्यों  also died in the conflict .
Cleveland Volcano in the Aleutian  आइलैंड्स of अलास्का photographed इससे the अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Space Station , May 2006 .
Ash plumes reached a  ऊँचाई of 19 km दौरान the climactic फटना at  Mount Pinatubo , Philippines in 1991 .
A volcano is an opening , or rupture , in a planet 's surface or crust , which allows  hot मैग्मा , volcanic राख और गैसों to एस्केप इससे the मैग्मा कक्ष नीचे  the surface .
ज्वालामुखी हैं generally मिला जहाँ tectonic  plates are diverging or converging .
A mid-oceanic ridge ,  लिये उदाहरण the mid-atlantic लकीरें , रै उदाहरण of ज्वालामुखी caused by अपसारी tectonic प्लेटों  pulling apart ; the Pacific Ring of Fire has examples of volcanoes caused by convergent tectonic plates coming together .
By contrast , volcanoes  हैं प्रायः नहीं निर्मित जहाँ दो tectonic प्लेटों  slide past one another .
Volcanoes can also form where there is stretching and thinning of the Earth 's crust in the interiors of plates , e.g. , in the East African Rift , the Wells  gray-clearwater volcanic फ़ील्ड और the रिओ ग्रांडे दरार in उत्तर अमेरिका  .
This type of volcanism falls under the  छतरियाँ of `` थाली परिकल्पना  '' volcanism .
Volcanism away from plate  सीमाएँ रै भी महरूम समझाया as mantle plumes  .
These so-called `` hotspots `` , for example Hawaii , are postulated to arise from upwelling diapirs  साथ मैग्मा इससे the core–mantle boundary , 3,000 km  deep in the Earth .
erupting ज्वालामुखी can पोज़ अनेक जोखिमों , नहीं  only in the immediate vicinity of the eruption .
volcanic राख can be a threat to वायुयान , in particular those साथ जेट इंजन जहाँ  ash particles can be melted by the high operating temperature .
Large eruptions can affect temperature as ash and droplets of  sulfuric एसिड अस्पष्ट the सूर्य और कूल the धरती 's निम्नतर माहौल or क्षोभमण्डल ; however , वे भी अवशोषित ऊष्मा radiated up इससे the  Earth , thereby warming the stratosphere .
Historically , so-called  volcanic सर्दियों have caused अनर्थकारी अकाल  .
A deep  pothole on नई यॉर्क नगर 's  Second Avenue
A pothole ( sometimes called a kettle and  ज्ञात in भाग of the पश्चिमी संयुक्त राज्य as a chuckhole ) is a प्रकार of disruption in the सतह of  a roadway where a portion of the road material has broken away , leaving a hole .
Renal cell carcinoma ( RCC , also known as hypernephroma ) is a kidney cancer that originates in the lining of the proximal convoluted tubule , the very small tubes  in the गुर्दा कि हस्तांतरण gf ( glomerular filtrate ) इससे the glomerulus to the  descending limb of the nephron .
rcc is the सबसे आम प्रकार of गुर्दा कर्कट  in adults , responsible for approximately 80 % of cases .
It is also known to be  the सबसे lethal of सब the genitourinary tumors  .
आरंभिक उपचार is सबसे commonly a कट्टरपंथी or  partial nephrectomy and remains the mainstay of curative treatment .
Where the tumor is  confined to the renal parenchyma , the 5-year अस्तित्व रेट is 60-70  % , but this is lowered considerably where metastases have spread .
it is अपेक्षाकृत resistant to विकिरण चिकित्सा और कीमोथेरेपी  , although some cases respond to immunotherapy .
Targeted cancer therapies such as sunitinib , temsirolimus , bevacizumab ,  interferon-alpha , और sorafenib have improved the आउटलुक लिये rcc  .
Estée Lauder Companies , Inc.  is a निर्माता और marketer of प्रतिष्ठा skincare , मेकअप , महक और  hair care products .
The  कम्पनी रै इसके मुख्यालय in midtown मैनहटन  , New York City .
the peritoneum ( ) is the serous झिल्ली कि फ़ॉर्म the अस्तर of the abdominal गुहा or the coelom —it कवर  most of the intra-abdominal ( or coelomic ) organs—in amniotes and some invertebrates ( annelids , for instance ) .
It is composed of a layer  of mesothelium समर्थित by a पतला परत of संयोजी  tissue .
The  peritoneum दोनो supports the abdominal अंगों  and serves as a conduit for their blood and lymph vessels and nerves .
The abdominal cavity ( the space bounded  by the vertebrae , abdominal मांसपेशियां , diaphragm और श्रोणि मंजिल ) चाहिए नहीं be उलझन साथ  the intraperitoneal space ( located within the abdominal cavity , but wrapped in peritoneum ) .
The structures within the intraperitoneal space are called `` intraperitoneal '' ( e.g . the stomach ) , the structures in the abdominal cavity that are located behind the intraperitoneal space are called ``  retroperitoneal `` ( e.g . the गुर्दे ) , और those structures  below the intraperitoneal space are called `` subperitoneal '' or `` infraperitoneal '' ( e.g . the bladder ) .
Modern  2.5 '' ssd प्रयुक्त in उपभोक्ता  laptops and desktop computers .
DDR  sdram आधारित  SSD .
अधिकतम और  .
PCI  संलग्न io त्वरक  SSD
PCI-E , DRAM ,  और नन्द आधारित ssd .
It  उपयोग an बाह्य शक्ति सप्लाई  to make the DRAM non-volatile .
A solid-state drive  ( ssd ) ( भी ज्ञात as a solid-state डिस्क or इलेक्ट्रॉनिक  disk , though it contains no actual `` disk '' of any kind ) is a data storage device using integrated circuit assemblies as memory to store data persistently .
SSD technology uses electronic interfaces  संगत साथ परंपरागत ब्लाक input/output ( i/o )  hard disk drives .
SSDs have no moving mechanical  components , जिससे फर्क उन्हें इससे परंपरागत electromechanical चुम्बकीय  disks such as hard disk drives ( HDDs ) or floppy disks , which contain spinning disks and movable read/write heads .
Compared with electromechanical disks ,  ssds हैं typically कम susceptible to शारीरिक शॉक , much quieter , have  lower access time , and less latency .
However , while the price of SSDs has continued to decline in 2012 , SSDs are  स्टिल परिचय 7 to 8 टाइम्स अधिक महंगी  per unit of storage than HDDs .
Many SSDs use I/O interfaces  विकसित लिये मुश्किल डिस्क ड्राइव , यूँ permitting सरल बदलना in आम  applications .
, most SSDs use  nand-based फ्लैश मेमोरी , जिससे  retains data without power .
For applications requiring fast access , but not necessarily data persistence  बाद शक्ति घाटा , ssds may be constructed इससे random-access  memory ( RAM ) .
Such devices may employ separate power sources  , ऐसे as बैटरी , to maintain आंकड़ा बाद शक्ति  loss .
Hybrid  ड्राइव or ठोस राज्य संकर ड्राइव ( sshd ) combine the सुविधाएँ of ssds और hdds in the वही ईकाई , containing a विशाल मुश्किल  disk drive and an SSD cache to improve performance of frequently accessed data .
These devices may  प्रस्ताव near-ssd प्रदर्शन लिये  many applications .
Salmon roe ( left )  और sturgeon caviar ( सही ) परोसा साथ माँ of पर्ल  caviar spoons to avoid tainting the taste of the caviar .
Ossetra  caviar , सामन creme fraiche , आलू shallot  croquette , basil oil , egg whites and yolks
Caviar , according to the Food and Agriculture Organization , is a  उत्पाद बना इससे salt-cured fish-eggs of the acipenseridae  family .
The roe can be `` fresh '' ( non-pasteurized ) or  pasteurized , साथ pasteurization reducing इसके culinary  and economic value .
traditionally the पद caviar refers तभी to roe इससे जंगली sturgeon in the कैस्पियन  and Black Seas ( Beluga , Ossetra and Sevruga caviars ) .
depending on the देश , caviar may भी be प्रयुक्त to describe the roe of अन्य  fish such as salmon , steelhead , trout , lumpfish , whitefish , and other species of sturgeon .
Caviar is considered a luxury  कोमलता और is खाया as a  garnish or a spread .
In 2012 , caviar sold for $  2,500 प्रति पाउंड , or $ 3,000 to $ 5,500  per kilo .
The SEC Network is a television syndication  संजाल featuring सजीव प्रसारण of कॉलेज फ़ुटबॉल और बास्केट  events from the Southeastern Conference .
It is owned and operated  by ईएसपीएन प्लस और is दिखाया in अधिक than 50 प्रतिशत of households in the संयुक्त  States , mostly Southeastern United States markets .
The SEC Network typically airs in the noon  पूर्वी स्लॉट कि थी पूर्व घर to the raycom खेल  SEC game of the week .
Games are shown locally on broadcast stations , regional  खेल संजाल , as खूब as on ईएसपीएन gameplan , ईएसपीएन पूरा अदालत , और  ESPN3.com .
The SEC Network is  भी उपलब्धियाँ in कनाडा via अटलांटा  's WPCH-TV .
The SEC Network uses the same on-screen graphics  फिलहाल प्रयुक्त by ईएसपीएन on एबीसी , a संस्करण of ईएसपीएन 's ग्राफिक्स  package .
SEC Network 's football programming  स्टिल उपयोग a शीर्षक सुरक्षित क्षेत्रफल क्युकी सबसे of इसके affiliates do  not Letterbox their Standard Definition feeds , while ESPN 's television networks have allowed their graphics to abandon the title safe , but letterbox for SD viewers .
Starting with the SEC 2012 Basketball  ऋतु , सेक संजाल 's ग्राफिक्स have महरूम परिवर्तित to  a 16:9 Widescreen-only format .
This is also being used for the 2013 Basketball season , but had still adapted the  पूर्व 4:3-safe ग्राफिक्स स्वरूप लिये the 2012 सेक फ़ुटबॉल  season .
The 1990s , pronounced and also known  as `` the nineteen-nineties '' or abbreviated as `` the nineties  '' or `` the '90s '' , was a decade that began on January 1 , 1990 , and ended on December 31 , 1999 .
It was the 10th and last decade of the 20th  सदी और the 100th और पिछला दशक of the 2nd मिलेनियम  .
The decade is best known for the end of the Cold War at the beginning of  the दशक और the विस्तार और व्यावसायीकरण of the अंतरजाल दौरान the दूसरी  half of the decade .
In much of the West the 1990s is remembered as a period of  unprecedented सलाम और समृद्धि , हालांकि अनेक भाग of the so-called तीसरा  World faced various problems including genocide , AIDS and new or continuing ethnic tensions and civil wars .
culturally बोलना the दशक थी characterized by  the rise of multiculturalism and alternative media .
Movements such as grunge , the rave scene and hip hop spread around the world  to यंग लोगों दौरान the दशक , aided by then-new प्रौद्योगिकी ऐसे as केबल टेलीविज़न  and the Internet .
A combination of factors , including the mass mobilization of capital markets through  neoliberalism , the शुरूआत of the फैली अप्रसार of नई मीडिया ऐसे as the अंतरजाल , और the विच्छेद  of the Soviet Union led to a realignment and reconsolidation of economic and political power across the world , and within countries .
Income inequality among countries in the world rose  sharply between the 1980s और the mid-1990s , पहले levelling बंद और  then falling after 2000 .
New ethnic conflicts emerged in Africa , the  balkans और the काकेशस , the पूर्व दो जिससे led to the rwandan नरसंहार  and Bosnian genocide , respectively .
The  संयुक्त राज्य began इसके वर्तमान सैन्य occupation of the मध्य ईस्ट दौरान the गर्मियाँ of  1990 with Desert Shield after it cut off a large portion of the world 's petroleum supply .
Signs of any resolution of tensions between Israel and the Arab world remained elusive , though the Irish  परेशानियों आए to a standstill in 1998 साथ the शुभ शुक्रवार अनुबंध बाद 30 सालो of हिंसा  .
The gray  भेड़िया or धूसर भेड़िया ( canis lupus ) is a प्रजाति of canid देशी to the wilderness और  remote areas of North America , Eurasia , and North Africa .
It is the largest member of  इसके परिवार , साथ males  averaging , and females .
It is  समान in सामान्य रूप और proportions  to a German shepherd , or sled dog , but has a larger head , narrower chest , longer legs , straighter tail and bigger paws .
Its  शीत फर is long और bushy , और predominantly a mottled धूसर in रंग , हालांकि  nearly pure white , red , or brown to black also occur .
Within the genus Canis , the gray wolf represents a more specialised and progressive form than its smaller cousins ( the coyote and golden  jackal ) , as demonstrated by इसके morphological adaptations to शिकार विशाल शिकार , इसके अधिक मिलनसार प्रकृति और इसके अत्यधिक  advanced expressive behavior .
It is a social animal , travelling  in नाभिकीय परिवारों consisting of a पन्द्रहवें जोड़ी , accompanied  by the pair 's adult offspring .
The gray wolf is typically an apex predator  throughout इसके दायरा , साथ तभी इंसानो और टाइगर्स पोज़ a गंभीर  threat to it .
It feeds primarily on large ungulates  , हालांकि it भी eats छोटी पशु , पशुधन , carrion  , and garbage .
the धूसर भेड़िया is एक of the  world 's most well researched animals , with probably more books written about it than any other wildlife species .
It has a long history of association with humans , having  महरूम despised और hunted in सबसे agricultural समुदायों due to इसके हमले on पशुधन , जबकि conversely  being respected by some Native American tribes .
It is the sole ancestor of the dog ,  जिससे थी पहला domesticated in the मध्य  East .
Although the fear of wolves is prevalent in many human societies ,  the बहुमत of अंकित हमले on लोगों have महरूम attributed to  animals suffering from rabies .
Non-rabid wolves have attacked and  मारे लोगों , मुख्यतः children , लकिन इस is असामान्य , as भेड़ियों हैं अपेक्षाकृत few , सजीव दूर इससे लोगों , और  have been taught to fear humans by hunters and shepherds .
Hunting and trapping has reduced the species ' range to , though its still relatively widespread range  और stable जनसांख्यिकी अर्थात् कि the प्रजाति is नहीं threatened at a वैश्विक स्तर , और is  therefore classified by the IUCN as Least Concern .
The Roman Empire ( ) was the post- Republican period of the ancient Roman civilization , characterised by an  निरंकुश रूप of सरकारी और विशाल territorial holdings around the  Mediterranean in Europe , Africa , and Asia .
The 500-year-old Roman Republic , which  preceded it , था महरूम destabilized through a श्रेणी of सिविल  wars .
Several events marked the transition from Republic to Empire ,  सहित जूलियस सीज़र 's नियुक्ति as perpetual तानाशाह ( 44 bc ) ; the बैटल of actium ( 31 bc ) ; और the granting of the honorific  Augustus to Octavian by the Roman Senate ( 27 BC ) .
The first two centuries of the Empire were a period of  unprecedented स्थिरता और समृद्धि ज्ञात  as the Pax Romana ( `` Roman Peace '' ) .
It reached its greatest expanse  दौरान the शासनकाल of त्राजान ( 98–117  AD ) .
In the 3rd century , the Empire underwent a crisis that  threatened इसके अस्तित्व , लकिन थी reunified और stabilized अंतर्गत  the emperors Aurelian and Diocletian .
Christians rose to power in the 4th century , during  जिससे समय a प्रणाली of डुअल नियम थी विकसित in the लैटिन वेस्ट और  Greek East .
After the collapse of central government in the West in the 5th  सदी , the पूर्वी हाफ जारी as कया होता बाद be ज्ञात as the  Byzantine Empire .
Because of the Empire 's vast extent and long endurance , the institutions and culture of Rome had a profound and lasting influence on the  विकास of भाषा , धर्म , वास्तुकला , दर्शनशास्त्र , विधि , और फ़ॉर्म of सरकारी in the territory it governed , विशेषकर  Europe , and by means of European expansionism throughout the modern world .
Education in the United States is mainly provided by the public  सेक्टर , साथ कंट्रोल और funding coming इससे तीन स्तर : लोकल , राज्य , और संघीय  , in that order .
Child education  is अनिवार्य , और वहीँ हैं भी a विशाल क्रमांक और चौड़ी किस्में of उच्चतर  education institutions throughout the country that one can choose to attend , both publicly and privately administered .
पब्लिक शिक्षा is universally  available .
School curricula  , funding , शिक्षण , नियुक्ति , और अन्य नीतियों हैं नियत through locally निर्वाचित स्कूल फलक साथ क्षेत्राधिकार  over school districts with many directives from state legislatures .
School districts are usually separate from other local jurisdictions , with  स्वतंत्र officials  and budgets .
शैक्षणिक मानकों और मानकीकृत परीक्षण निर्णय  are usually made by state governments .
The ages  लिये अनिवार्य शिक्षा  vary by state .
It begins from ages five  to आठ और ends इससे आयु चौदह  to eighteen .
Compulsory education  आवश्यकताएँ can generally be संतुष्ट by educating children  in public schools , state-certified private schools , or an approved home school program .
In most public and private schools , education is divided into three levels : elementary school , middle school ( sometimes called junior  ऊँची स्कूल ) , और ऊँची स्कूल ( sometimes referred to as द्वितीयक शिक्षा  ) .
In almost all  स्कूलों at ये स्तर , children हैं विभाजित by आयु समूह into ग्रेड , ranging इससे किंडरगार्टन ( followed  by first grade ) for the youngest children in elementary school , up to twelfth grade , the final year of high school .
The exact age  दायरा of विद्यार्थी in ये ग्रेड स्तर varies  slightly from area to area .
Post-secondary education , better known as `` college `` in the United States , is  generally governed separately इससे the elementary और ऊँची स्कूल प्रणाली  , and is described in a separate section below .
Government supported  , फ़्री पब्लिक स्कूलों लिये सब प्रारंभ होने स्थापित बाद the क्रान्ति , और विस्तारित in the  19th century , as the results of efforts of men like Horace Mann and Booker T. Washington .
By 1870 , all states had free elementary  स्कूलों , albeit तभी in शहरी centers  .
As the 20th century drew nearer , states started passing  कानून to मेक schooling अनिवार्य , और by 1910 , 72 प्रतिशत of children attended  school .
Private schools continued to spread during this  समय , as खूब as कॉलेजों and—in  the rural centers— land grant colleges .
The year of 1910 also  देखी the पहला सच्चा ऊँची  schools .
During the rest of the 20th  सदी , शैक्षणिक प्रयत्न केन्द्रित on reducing the  inequality of the schooling system .
The landmark Supreme  अदालत मामला भूरा v. फलक of शिक्षा बना the desegregation of elementary और ऊँची स्कूलों a  national priority , while the Pell Grant program helped poor minorities gain access to college .
Special  शिक्षा थी बना into संघीय  law in 1975 .
The Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 made  मानकीकृत परीक्षण a आवश्यकता , और in 1983 , a आयोग थी स्थापित to evaluate उनके परिणाम  and propose a course of action .
The resulting No Child Left  पीछे अधिनियम of 2001 थी विवादास्पद और इसके लक्ष्य proved  to be unrealistic .
A commission established in 2006 evaluated higher  शिक्षा , लकिन इसके सुझाव have yet to be fully implemented  .
Paul Bragg ( February 6 , 1895 – December 7 , 1976 ) , nutritionist , was  a पायोनियर in america’s तंदुरुस्ती गति  .
Health spending per capita , in $ US PPP-adjusted , with the US and  कनाडा compared amongst अन्य पहला संसार राष्ट्र  .
Comparison of the health care  प्रणालियों in कनाडा और the संयुक्त राज्य  are often made by government , public health and public policy analysts .
The two countries had similar  स्वास्थ्य परवाह प्रणालियों पहले कनाडा reformed इसके प्रणाली  in the 1960s and 1970s .
The United States spends much more  धन on स्वास्थ्य परवाह than कनाडा , on दोनो a per-capita  basis and as a percentage of GDP .
In 2006 , per-capita spending for health care in  कनाडा थी us $ 3,678 ; in the u.S. ,  US $ 6,714 .
The U.S.  खर्च 15.3 % of जीडीपी on स्वास्थ्य परवाह  in that year ; Canada spent 10.0 % .
In 2006 , 70 % of health  परवाह बिता in कनाडा थी financed by सरकारी  , versus 46 % in the United States .
Total government spending per capita in the U.S. on  स्वास्थ्य परवाह थी 23 % उच्चतर than कनाडाई सरकारी बिता , और u.S. सरकारी व्यय on स्वास्थ्य परवाह थी बस अंतर्गत 83 % of कुल  Canadian spending ( public and private ) though these statistics do n't take into account population differences .
Studies have come  to अलग conclusions परिचय the परिणाम of इस disparity  in spending .
A 2007 review of all studies comparing health outcomes in Canada and the US in a Canadian peer-reviewed medical journal found that `` health outcomes  may be श्रेष्ठ in मरीजों cared लिये in कनाडा बनाम the संयुक्त राज्य , लकिन मतभेद हैं  not consistent . ''
Life  प्रत्याशा is longer in कनाडा , और इसके शिशु मृत्यु रेट is निम्नतर than कि of the  U.S. , but there is debate about the underlying causes of these differences .
One commonly cited comparison , the 2000  संसार स्वास्थ्य संगठन 's दरजा of `` overall स्वास्थ्य सेवा प्रदर्शन '' , जिससे प्रयुक्त a `` कम्पोजिट माप of उपलब्धि in the स्तर of स्वास्थ्य  , the distribution of health , the level of responsiveness and fairness of financial contribution '' , ranked Canada 30th and the US 37th among 191 member nations .
This study rated the US  `` responsiveness '' , or विशेषता of सेवा लिये individuals  receiving treatment , as 1st , compared with 7th for Canada .
While the average life expectancy for Canadians was 80.34 years compared with 78.6 years for residents of the US , simply comparing the life expectancy  of दो समूह साथ अलग जातिगत मेकअप और अलग मोटापा दरों is संभावित नहीं an प्रभावी रास्ता of determining जिससे healthcare प्रणाली is श्रेष्ठ  .
the जो 's पढ़ाई विधि यहूद  criticized by some analyses .
Although there is a measure of consensus  कि life-expectancy और शिशु मृत्यु चिह्नित the सबसे विश्वसनीय तरीके to compare nation-wide स्वास्थ्य परवाह , assuming the जनसांख्यिकी मेकअप is समान , a हाल  report by the Congressional Research Service carefully summarizes some recent data and notes the `` difficult research issues '' facing international comparisons .
The sound source has now broken through the sound  गति अवरोध , और is traveling at 1.4 टाइम्स the  speed of sound , ( Mach 1.4 ) .
Since the source is moving  तेज़ ( साथ a गति ) than  the sound waves it creates , it actually leads the advancing wavefront .
The sound source will pass by a  stationary निरीक्षक ( साथ a गति ) पहले the निरीक्षक दरअसल hears  the sound it creates .
As a result ,  an निरीक्षक in सामने of the  source will detect
and an  निरीक्षक पीछे  the source .
A sonic boom produced by an aircraft moving at  m=2.92 , गणना इससे the कोन कोण of 20  degrees .
An observer hears the boom when the shock wave , on the  किनारे of the कोन , crosses उसके or उसके स्थान  .
mach कोन  angle
A sonic boom is the sound associated  साथ the शॉक लहरें निर्मित by an ऑब्जेक्ट traveling through the  air faster than the speed of sound .
Sonic booms  generate विशाल amounts of ध्वनि उर्जा , sounding  much like an explosion .
The crack of a supersonic bullet passing  ओवरहेड is an उदाहरण of a सोनिक बूम in miniature  .
The Tonight Show with Jay Leno is an American  late-night बात दिखाएँ hosted by jay लीनो कि initially aired इससे may 25 , 1992 to may 29  , 2009 , and resumed production on March 1 , 2010 .
The fourth incarnation of the  tonight दिखाएँ मताधिकार बना इसके डेब्यू on may 25 , 1992 , तीन दिनों  following Johnny Carson 's retirement as host of the program .
The program originates  इससे एनबीसी studios in burbank , कैलिफ़ोर्निया , और is ब्रॉडकास्ट सोमवार through शुक्रवार at 11:35 pm in the पूर्वी और प्रशांत समय  zones ( 10:35 PM Central / Mountain time ) .
Unlike  कार्सन or उसके पूर्ववर्ती जोकर paar , लीनो तभी एकबार utilized  a guest host , preferring to host the series by himself .
On  अप्रैल 26 , 1999 , the दिखाएँ began प्रसारण in 1080i hdtv  , becoming the first American nightly talk show to be shot in high definition .
The  दिखाएँ is शॉट in 16:9  aspect ratio .
The series , which followed the same basic format as that of his  पूर्ववर्तियों ( an खोलने monologue followed by कॉमेडी दिनचर्या , साक्षात्कार और प्रदर्शन ) , भागा जबतक may 29 ,  2009 , after which Leno was succeeded by Conan O'Brien .
NBC signed Leno to a new deal for a nightly  बात दिखाएँ in the 10:00  pm ET timeslot .
The primetime series , titled The Jay Leno Show , debuted  on सितंबर 14 , 2009 , following a समान स्वरूप to the लीनो अवतार  of Tonight .
Neither O'Brien 's  संस्करण of the कार्यक्रम , जिससे premiered जून 1 , 2009 , nor  The Jay Leno Show generated the ratings that NBC had expected .
The network decided to move a condensed 30-minute version of Leno 's show to O'Brien 's time  स्लॉट , और o'brien 's tonight दिखाएँ a half-hour बाद  .
This decision met with opposition from  o'brien , जिनकी कार्यावधि on the tonight दिखाएँ ended जनवरी 22 , 2010 , बाद जिससे he began  his own talk show on TBS .
The Tonight Show  साथ jay लीनो तब began इसके दूसरी और वर्तमान अवतार  , the sixth of the franchise , on March 1 , 2010 .
rfid चिप अगला  to a grain of rice .
This chip contains a  radio-frequency इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक फ़ील्ड कुंडली कि modulates an बाह्य  magnetic field to transfer a coded identification number when queried by a reader device .
This  छोटी प्रकार is incorporated in उपभोक्ता उत्पाद ,  and implanted in pets , for identification purposes .
Radio-frequency identification ( RFID ) is the wireless non-contact use of radio-frequency electromagnetic fields to  ट्रांसफ़र आंकड़ा , लिये the उद्देश्य of automatically identifying और ट्रैकिंग टैग संलग्न to  objects .
The tags contain  electronically भंडारित सूचना  .
Some tags are powered and  पढ़ा at छोटी सीमाएँ ( a few मीटर ) via चुम्बकीय फ़ील्ड  ( electromagnetic induction ) .
Others use a local power source such as  a बैटरी , or else have no बैटरी लकिन collect उर्जा इससे the interrogating em फ़ील्ड , और तब अधिनियम as a passive transponder  to emit microwaves or UHF radio waves ( i.e. , electromagnetic radiation at high frequencies ) .
Battery powered  टैग may operate at सैंकड़ों  of meters .
Unlike a bar code , the tag does not necessarily  need to be भीतर लकीर of sight of the रीडर , और may be  embedded in the tracked object .
rfid टैग हैं प्रयुक्त in  many industries .
An RFID tag attached to an  ऑटोमोबाइल दौरान उत्पादन can be प्रयुक्त to track इसके प्रगति through the सभा  line .
दवाएँ can be  tracked through warehouses .
Livestock and pets may have  टैग injected , allowing धनात्मक  identification of the animal .
Since RFID tags can be attached to  कपडे , possessions , or भी implanted भीतर लोगों , the सम्भावना of पढना personally-linked  information without consent has raised privacy concerns .
Id , ego and super-ego are the three parts of the psychic apparatus  पारिभाषित in सिग्मुंड फ्रायड 's संरचनात्मक मॉडल of the psyche ; वे हैं the तीन  theoretical constructs in terms of whose activity and interaction mental life is described .
According to this  मॉडल of the psyche , the id is the नियत of uncoordinated instinctual रुझान ; the super-ego plays the नाजुक और moralizing भूमिका  ; and the ego is the organized , realistic part that mediates between the desires of the id and the super-ego .
the super-ego can रोकें तुम इससे doing निश्चित  things that your id may want you to do .
Even though the model  is संरचनात्मक और makes सन्दर्भ to an apparatus , the id , अहंकार और super-ego हैं कृत्यों of the दिमाग बल्कि  than parts of the brain and do not correspond one-to-one with actual somatic structures of the kind dealt with by neuroscience .
The concepts themselves arose at a late stage in the development of Freud 's thought : the `` structural model '' ( which succeeded his `` economic model '' and `` topographical model '' ) was first discussed in his 1920 essay ``  परे the ख़ुशी principle `` और थी formalized और elaborated upon तीन सालो बाद in उसके `` the अहंकार  and the Id `` .
Freud 's proposal was influenced by  the ambiguity of the पद `` बेहोश `` और  its many conflicting uses .
एयर फ़ोर्स  ROTC emblem
The Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps ( AFROTC ) is one of the three primary commissioning  स्त्रोत लिये अधिकारियों in the संयुक्त राज्य एयर फ़ोर्स , the अन्य दो होने the संयुक्त राज्य एयर फ़ोर्स अकादमी ( usafa ) और एयर फ़ोर्स  Officer Training School ( OTS ) .
A subordinate command of the Air University within the Air Education and Training Command ( AETC ) , AFROTC  is लकीर अंतर्गत the jeanne M. holm बीच लिये अधिकारी accessions और नागरिक  Development at Maxwell AFB , Alabama .
The Holm Center , formerly known as  the एयर फ़ोर्स अधिकारी accession और प्रशिक्षण स्कूलों ( afoats ) , retains सीधा  responsibility for both AFROTC and OTS .
AFROTC is the largest and oldest source of  commissioned अधिकारियों लिये the u.S. एयर फ़ोर्स  .
afrotc 's stated मिशन is to उपज विशेषता नेताओ  for the U.S. Air Force .
AFROTC units are located on 144 college and university campuses with 984  अतिरिक्त संस्थानों of उच्चतर सीखना participating in cross-town समझौतों कि allow उनके विद्यार्थी  to attend AFROTC classes at a nearby `` host '' college or university .
According to AFOATS HQ , in 2006 , AFROTC commissioned 2,083 USAF Second  lieutenants , साथ afrotc नामांकन ranging इससे 23,605 in 1985 to 10,231 in 1993 , और around 13,000  enrolled today .
AFROTC units at colleges and universities are called ``  detachments , '' और हैं typically headed by an क्रियाशील ड्यूटी यूएसएएफ अधिकारी in the रैंक of कर्नल or लेफ्टिनेंट कर्नल जो कृत्यों as दोनो the detachment कमांडर  for USAF purposes and with the nominal title of Professor of Aerospace Studies ( PAS ) within the institution 's academic community .
Most colleges and universities will designate the  afrotc detachment as the विभाग of  Aerospace Studies .
The PAS is assisted by three to four Assistant Professors  of aerospace अध्ययन ( apas ) , सब क्रियाशील ड्यूटी यूएसएएफ अधिकारियों in the बाँधने of प्रमुख  or captain .
Three USAF non-commissioned officers and one senior  non-commissioned अधिकारी होगा typically provide सैन्य प्रशासनिक support और हैं प्रायः  augmented by one to two civilian staff support employees of the academic institution .
Within AFROTC detachments , the students ( referred to as `` cadets '' ) are organized  into विंग्स , समूह , squadrons , और फ़्लाइट , mirroring the यूएसएएफ कार्यात्मक  wing structure .
The AFROTC detachment 's cadet wing or cadet group is separated into two divisions : the General  सैन्य कोर्स ( जीएमसी ) consisting of the पहला दो सालो of प्रशिक्षण , और  the Professional Officer Course ( POC ) consisting of the last two years of training .
The AFROTC program is also divided into two  प्रशिक्षण कृत्यों : the अकादमिक कक्षा कार्यक्रम ( aerospace अध्ययन वर्ग ) और cadet  Activities ( i.e. , Leadership Laboratory , Physical Training , and other training ) .
Paper density ( also known as basis weight and grammage ) is a term used in the pulp and paper  उद्योग और भी लिये कपड़ा उद्योग to denote a माप of द्रव्यमान of the उत्पाद प्रति ईकाई of क्षेत्रफल  for a type of fabric , paper or paperboard .
The term `` density '' is not  प्रयुक्त in इसके  traditional sense of mass per unit volume .
`` Paper density  '' , बल्कि , is a माप of the क्षेत्रफल  density .
Paper products that let little  or no लाइट pass through ( e.g . पोस्टर फलक ) हैं माना  dense or heavy .
पेपर उत्पाद कि allow कुछ लाइट to pass through (  e.g . tissue paper ) are considered lightweight .
in the गूदा और पेपर उद्योग , it is आम to नियत a वाणिज्यिक  paper machine to produce paper to a target paper density .
Paper density can also be used to distinguish paper  इससे paperboard as the latter प्रायः रै a grammage  greater than 134 g/m2 .
दो तरीके of expressing पेपर  density are commonly used:
Expressed in grams per square meter (  g/m2 ) , पेपर घनत्व is भी ज्ञात  as grammage .
This is the  माप प्रयुक्त in सबसे भाग  of the world .
Expressed in terms of the mass (  expressed as वज़न ) प्रति क्रमांक  of sheets , it is known as basis weight .
The convention used in the United States and a few other  देशों using us पेपर आकार is पाउंड of a ream of 500 ( or in कुछ मामले 1000 ) चादरें of  a given ( raw , still uncut ) basis size .
जापानी पेपर is expressed as the वज़न in  kg of 1000 sheets .
Candace Nicole Parker ( born April 19 , 1986 ) is an American  बास्केट खिलाड़ी लिये the wnba 's लॉस एंजिल्स स्पार्क्स और ummc  Ekaterinburg of Russia .
She is the  younger सिस्टर of एनबीए खिलाड़ी एंथोनी पार्कर  .
She  attended the विश्वविद्यालयों of टेनेसी  and was drafted by the Sparks in 2008 .
She may be best known for being the first woman to dunk in an NCAA tournament game and the  पहला स्त्री to डंक twice in a कॉलेज game—she नियत दोनो माइलस्टोन as a redshirt freshman  on March 19 , 2006 .
She also became  तभी the दूसरी खिलाड़ी to डंक in  a WNBA game on June 22 , 2008 .
A versatile player , she is mainly a forward ,  लकिन थी सूचीबद्ध on टेनेसी 's रोस्टर as a आगे , बीच ,  and guard .
She was a starter  on the महिला vols बास्केट टोली ,  winners of the 2007 and 2008 NCAA championships .
Parker won  the 2009 निकलोडियन बच्चे  ' Choice award as the favorite female athlete in the sports category .
And she was a guest  स्टार on फिगर it  Out .
A food guide pyramid is a pyramid  तराशा मार्गदर्शिका of स्वस्थ भोजन विभाजित into भाग to दिखाएँ the  recommended intake for each food group .
The first food  पिरामिड थी प्रकाशित in स्वीडन in 1974  .
The most widely known food pyramid  थी introduced by the संयुक्त राज्य विभाग of कृषि  in the year 1992 , was updated in 2005 , and then replaced in 2011 .
Over 25  अन्य देशों और संगठनों have  also published food pyramids .
Hans Christian Andersen ( ; often referred  to in scandinavia as H. C. andersen ; अप्रैल 2 , 1805august 4  , 1875 ) was a Danish author and poet .
Although a prolific writer of plays , travelogues , novels , and poems , Andersen is best  remembered लिये उसके परी किस्से , a साहित्यिक विधा he so mastered कि he खुद रै become as mythical  as the tales he wrote .
Andersen 's popularity is not limited to children ;  उसके stories—called , or `` fantastic किस्से '' —express विषयवस्तु कि transcend  age and nationality .
During his  आजीवन he थी acclaimed लिये having प्रसन्न  children worldwide and was feted by royalty .
Andersen 's fairy tales , which have been translated into more than 125  भाषाएं , have become culturally अंतःस्थापित in the वेस्ट 's सामूहिक चेतना , readily accessible to children , लकिन पेश lessons  of virtue and resilience in the face of adversity for mature readers as well .
They have inspired  गति तस्वीरें , plays , नाटिकाओं , और  animated films .
Two  आंकड़े locking आँखें in caravaggio 's the  Fortune Teller
Eye contact occurs when `` two people  dekh at प्रत्येक अन्य 's आँखें at  the same time . ''
In human beings , eye  सम्पर्क is a रूप of अशाब्दिक संचार और is  thought to have a large influence on social behavior .
coined in the जल्दी to mid-1960s , the पद रै आइये in the वेस्ट to प्रायः define the अधिनियम  as a meaningful and important sign of confidence and social communication .
The customs and  significance of नजर सम्पर्क vary widely between संस्कृतियों , साथ  religious and social differences often altering its meaning greatly .
The study of eye  सम्पर्क is sometimes ज्ञात  as oculesics .
Bed bugs are  parasitic कीट of the cimicid परिवार कि फीड  exclusively on blood .
The term most commonly refers to members of the genus Cimex of which Cimex lectularius , the common bed bug , is the best known as it prefers to feed on  इंसान रक्त हालांकि अन्य cimex प्रजाति हैं specialized to अन्य पशु , e.g. , चमगादड़ बग , C. pipistrelli ( यूरोपीय ) , C. pilosellus ( पश्चिमी us ) , और C. adjunctus (  entire eastern US ) .
The name of the `` bed bug '' is derived from the preferred habitat of  cimex lectularius : गरम घरों और विशेषकर आसपास  or inside of beds and bedding or other sleep areas .
Bed bugs are mainly active at night  , लकिन हैं नहीं exclusively nocturnal  .
They usually feed  on उनके होस्ट बगैर होने  noticed .
A number of adverse health  प्रभाव may परिणाम इससे bed कीड़ा bites , सहित स्किन rashes  , psychological effects , and allergic symptoms .
Diagnosis involves  दोनो ढूंढना bed बग और the occurrence  of compatible symptoms .
Bed bugs  have महरूम ज्ञात as इंसान  parasites for thousands of years .
At a point in the early 1940s , they were mostly eradicated  in the विकसित संसार , लकिन have  increased in prevalence since 1995 .
Because  infestation of इंसान habitats रै महरूम on the बढ़ाएँ , bed कीड़ा bites  and related conditions have been on the rise as well .
The Book of Isaiah ( ) is the first of the Latter Prophets in the  यहूदी बाइबल , preceding ezekiel , यिर्मयाह और  the Book of the Twelve .
( The order of the subsequent books differs  somewhat in the ईसाई बूढ़ा वसीयत  ) .
The first 39 chapters prophesy doom for a sinful Judah and for all the nations of the world that oppose God , while the last 27 prophesy the  बहाली of the स्वदेश of इसराईल और a नई सृष्टि in परमेश्वर 's गौरवशाली भविष्य किंगडम ; इस खण्ड शामिल the गीतों of the कष्ट नौकर , चार पृथक passages referring to  the nation of Israel , interpreted by Christians as prefiguring the coming of Jesus Christ .
Tradition ascribes authorship of the book to Isaiah son  of amoz , लकिन अभी विद्वानों widely सहमत कि the किताब is the कार्य of तीन अलग लेखक - few विद्वानों  deny this view , and those that do , do so for theological reasons .
The first , termed Proto-Isaiah ( chapters 1–39 ) ,  contains the शब्द of the 8th-century bce नबी साथ 7th-century bce expansions ; the दूसरी , deutero-isaiah ( अध्याय 40–55 ) , is the कार्य of a 6th-century bce लेखक लिखने  near the end of the Babylonian captivity ; and the third , the poetic Trito-Isaiah ( chapters 56–66 ) , was composed in Jerusalem shortly after the return from exile , probably by multiple authors .
Oregon State University ( OSU ) is  a coeducational , पब्लिक शोध विश्वविद्यालयों  located in Corvallis , Oregon , United States .
The university offers  undergraduate , ग्रैजुएट और डॉक्टरेट  degrees and a multitude of research opportunities .
वहीँ हैं अधिक than 200 अकादमिक उपाधि  programs offered through the university .
osu 's कार्यक्रम in सूक्ष्मजैविकी , नाभिकीय अभियान्त्रिकी , पारिस्थितिकी , वानिकी , पब्लिक स्वास्थ्य , biochemistry  , zoology , oceanography , food science and pharmacy are recognized nationally as top tier programs .
The OSU 's liberal arts  कार्यक्रम have भी grown significantly और the विभाग is  considered a `` cornerstone '' of the institution .
More than 200,000 people have  attended osu चूंकि इसके founding  .
The Carnegie Foundation classifies  ऑरेगॉन राज्य विश्वविद्यालयों as भाग of इसके  top tier of research institutions .
As  of 2008 , osu is एक of तभी seventy-three  land-grant universities .
The school is also recognized as a  sea-grant , space-grant और sun-grant संस्था , बनाना it एक of तभी दो us संस्थानों to retain सब चार designations  and the only public university to do so ( Cornell is the only other with similar designations ) .
As one of the  दो फ्लैगशिप विश्वविद्यालयों of the ऑरेगॉन विश्वविद्यालयों प्रणाली , osu receives अधिक funding लिये शोध , annually  , than all other public higher education institutions in Oregon combined .
Female ejaculation  is the expulsion of द्रव by इंसान महिलाओं इससे  the paraurethral ducts through and around the female urethra during or before an orgasm .
It is also known colloquially  as gushing or squirting , हालांकि ये हैं माना  to be different phenomena in some research publications .
The exact  सोर्स और प्रकृति of the द्रव continue to be a टॉपिक of बहस among  medical professionals , which is also related to doubts over the existence of the G-Spot .
The Kanab ambersnail , scientific name Oxyloma haydeni kanabensis or Oxyloma kanabense , is a critically  endangered subspecies or प्रजाति of छोटी , air-breathing जमीन घोंघा , a स्थलीय pulmonate gastropod mollusc  in the family Succineidae , the amber snails .
The common name of the amber snails is based on the shell ,  जिससे is पारदर्शी और जब खाली प्रायः resembles एम्बर  in color .
This species is  endemic to the संयुक्त राज्य , specifically the राज्य of  Arizona and Utah , where it was first collected in the early 20th century .
It has been listed as endangered on  the संयुक्त राज्य मछली और वन्यजीव सेवा सूची of endangered  species since 8 August 1991 .
This snail lives in wetlands , springs , and seeps , and only two of its natural habitats are known to exist : Three Lakes , a meadow near Kanab , Utah , and Vasey 's Paradise , a spring along the  कोलोराडो नदी भीतर ग्रैंड canyon नेशनल पार्क  .
In its natural habitat  it is बल्कि polyphagous , feeding मुख्यतः on जीवाणु  , plants and fungi , and reproduces during the summer .
Now considered a Critically Endangered species on the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species due to a series of factors (  सहित influence ) , the kanab ambersnail रै महरूम reintroduced to तीन स्रोतों  above the historic high water level along the Colorado River .
The  स्पेनी भाषा is the दूसरी  most used language in the United States .
There are more Spanish speakers in the United  राज्य than वहीँ हैं अध्यक्षों of चाइनीज , फ्रेंच , जर्मनी , इतालवी , हवाई  , and the Native American languages combined .
According to the 2010 American Community Survey conducted by the U.S. Census Bureau , Spanish is the primary language  बोला at घर by लगभग 37 लाख लोगों aged पाँच or पुरानी , a फिगर अधिक than दोगुना कि  of 1990 .
There are  45 लाख hispanophones जो बोलो स्पेनी as a पहला or दूसरी भाषा , as खूब as छह लाख  Spanish language students , composing the largest national Spanish-speaking community outside of Mexico and making Spanish the Romance language and the Indo-European language with largest number of native speakers in the world .
Roughly half of all U.S. Spanish speakers  भी बोलो अंग्रेज़ी `` बहुत खूब , '' आधारित on the self-assessment जनसांख्यिकी सवाल उत्तरदाताओं  .
The language came to the country since the 16th and 17th centuries  साथ the आगमन of स्पेनी colonists in क्षेत्रों कि होता बाद become the राज्य of फ्लोरिडा , टेक्सास  , Colorado , New Mexico , Arizona , Nevada , Utah , and California and of the Spanish explorers - who explored areas of 42 states- .
Also west of Louisiana Territory was Spanish between 1763 - 1800 ( year of the French recovery  of territory ) , बाद the फ्रेंच और भारतीय  War .
After of the incorporation of  ये राज्य to the u.S. in पहला हाफ of 19th सदी , the स्पेनी भाषा थी बाद reinforced by the अधिग्रहण of प्यूर्टो रीको in 1898 और by बाद लहरें of the हिस्पैनिक करणों ,  basically from Hispanic America , to the United States beginning in the second half of 19th century until today .
is a Latin word that means ``  यूँ '' or , in लिखने , `` it थी यूँ  in the source material '' .
Sic  may भी refer  to:
Sic , Cluj , a commune  in रोमानिया
sic , the क्षेत्रीय  code for Sicily
Sic ( noise artist ) , styled as [ sic ] ,  स्टेज नाम of जेनिफर मॉरिस , a कनाडाई  noise artist
Sic ( band ) is a modern  hardcore/thrash मेटल बैंड इससे torshavn , the पूंजी  of the Faroe Islands
`` ( sic ) '' , a  सोंग by अमरीकी बैंड slipknot on the  album Slipknot
SIC  , the आरंभिक of मार्को  Simoncelli .
sic as an एक्रोनिम  may stand for:
SiC , Silicon carbide , a  semiconducting सामग्री , भी प्रयुक्त  to make metalworking tools
SIC ( cyclecar  ) ( società इटालियाना cyclecars  )
Standard Industrial Classification ,  a 20th-century u.S. प्रणाली लिये classifying  industries
International  मानक औद्योगिक वर्गीकरण a un प्रणाली  for economic activities
शेटलैंड आइलैंड्स  Council
the Swiss  interbank clearing  system
San Isidro  क्लबों , an अर्जेंटाइन रग्बी  union club
Standing Interpretation  कमेटी , a कमेटी समर्पित to the निर्वचन  of international accounting standards IFRS
Schwarz information  मानदंड in the फ़ील्ड  of statistics
second-in-command in the  field of aviation
Sistema  interconectado सेंट्रल शक्ति ग्रिड  in Chile
Sociedade Independente de  comunicação ( sic ) , a टेलीविज़न चैनल  in Portugal
Sea Isle City , New  जर्सी , a तटीय कस्बा in the  United States
segmented पूर्णांक काउंटर विधि , a  mode of operation in cryptography
Sepang International  सर्किट , a high-end racetrack कि होस्ट the  Malaysian round of Formula 1
Shanghai International  सर्किट , a मोटर रेसिंग स्थान in शंघाई  , China
Simplified instructional  कंप्यूटर , a काल्पनिक कंप्यूटर  used in systems programming
SIC ( Sons Idées Couleurs ) , an early  twentieth-century आर्ट पत्रिका उत्पादित by फ्रेंच लेखक पियरे  Albert-Birot
Southeastern  इलिनोइस कॉलेज , a दो साल जूनियर  College in Harrisburg , Illinois , United States
Specific  आगमनात्मक क्षमता , abbreviated to sic , जिससे is अधिक commonly ज्ञात  as the relative permittivity or the dielectric constant
St Ignatius ' College , Riverview ,  a जेसुइट स्कूल in सिडनी , ऑस्ट्रेलिया
alt=Five smiling young girls in  विभिन्न मुद्राएँ wearing श्वेत smocks over thigh-length पोशाक  of similar color to their hair .
The Tokyo Mew Mew  manga और दुश्मनी श्रेणी सुविधाएँ a डाल  of characters designed by Mia Ikumi .
The series takes place in Tokyo , Japan , where five adolescent girls , called Mew Mews , are infused with  the डीएनए of endangered प्रजाति to कॉम्बैट एलियंस attempting to लो over  the Earth .
The  manga श्रेणी is followed by a छोटी sequel  series , Tokyo Mew Mew a la Mode , which introduces a new Mew Mew and a new threat .
The Mew Mews are led by the main character , Ichigo Momomiya , whose first task is to gather the other four Mew Mews : Mint  aizawa , सलाद midorikawa , खीर फोंग , और zakuro fujiwara  .
As the  श्रेणी progresses , ichigo goes इससे having a crush on masaya aoyama  to becoming his girlfriend while trying to hide her secret double life from him .
The series antagonists  शामिल तीन एलियंस , kish , पाई ,  and Tart , and their leader , Deep Blue .
Originally from Earth , the aliens were  मजबूर to छोड़ long पहले due to घातक पर्यावरणीय परिवर्तन  .
They have returned to kill the  इंसानो , जो वे महसूस हैं destroying उनके ग्रह , और reclaim  the planet .
In a la Mode , middle school student Berry Shirayuki is introduced as the sixth Mew Mew and , in the  अनुपस्थिति of ichigo , the अस्थाई नेता of the mew mews  .
A la Mode also introduces new set of  antagonists , the संत रोज़ crusaders , a समूह of इंसान  teenagers with various psychic abilities with a desire to create their own utopia .
Led by Duke ,  वे मेक अनेक कोशिशें to मार बेरी , आखिरकार turning the  local populace against the Mew Mews .
Ikumi 's initial vision for Tokyo Mew Mew was a story called Tokyo Black Cat  लड़की कि प्रदर्शित a cat-girl battling एलियन आक्रमणकारियों  .
After the story was transitioned to a more upbeat story  of पाँच मादा superheroes , the  character designs were redone to have a lighter , more colorful feel .
The main series characters were praised for being a perfect  अनुरूप लिये the overall स्टोरी , as खूब as लिये उनके cute  appearances .
The characters introduced in a la Mode were also  praised लिये उनके विज़ुअल दिखावे , लकिन criticized as होने दोहराव  of the original series .
The  अक्षर ड्यूक थी भी criticized लिये having a डिज़ाइन  reminiscent of the white supremacy group , the Ku Klux Klan .
Middle Triassic marginal marine sequence  of siltstones ( नीचे ) और limestones  ( above ) , Virgin Formation , southwestern Utah , USA
sedimentary रॉक्स हैं प्रकार of चट्टान कि हैं formed by the deposition  of material at the Earth 's surface and within bodies of water .
Sedimentation is the collective name for processes that cause mineral  and/or सशुल्क अणु ( detritus ) to settle और accumulate  or minerals to precipitate from a solution .
Particles that form  a sedimentary चट्टान by accumulating  are called sediment .
Before being  deposited , sediment थी formed by weathering और अपरदन in a सोर्स क्षेत्रफल , और तब  transported to the place of deposition by water , wind , ice , mass movement or glaciers which are called agents of denudation .
The  sedimentary चट्टान कवर of the महाद्वीपों of the धरती 's क्रस्ट is extensive , लकिन the कुल योगदान  of sedimentary rocks is estimated to be only 8 % of the total volume of the crust .
Sedimentary rocks are only a thin  veneer over a क्रस्ट consisting मुख्यतः of igneous  and metamorphic rocks .
Sedimentary rocks are deposited  in परतों as strata , forming a ढांचा  called bedding .
The study of sedimentary rocks and rock strata provides information about the subsurface that is useful for civil engineering , for example in  the निर्माण of सड़कें , घरों , tunnels , नहरों or अन्य  constructions .
Sedimentary rocks are also important sources of  प्राकृतिक संसाधन जैसे कोयले , चट्टान fuels , पीने जल  or ores .
The study of  the अनुक्रम of sedimentary चट्टान strata is the प्रमुख सोर्स लिये वैज्ञानिक ज्ञान परिचय  the Earth 's history , including palaeogeography , paleoclimatology and the history of life .
The scientific discipline that studies the properties  और उत्पत्ति of sedimentary रॉक्स is पुकारा sedimentology  .
Sedimentology is both part of geology and physical geography and overlaps partly  साथ अन्य disciplines in the धरती sciences , ऐसे as pedology , geomorphology  , geochemistry or structural geology .
350px
Humans are born with over 270 bones , some of which fuse together into a longitudinal  अक्ष , the अक्षीय कंकाल , to जिससे the  appendicular skeleton is attached .
Saint Patrick ( ; ;  आधुनिक ; ; c. 387 – 17 कूच c. 460 or c. 492 ) थी a romano-british  Christian missionary and bishop in Ireland .
Known as the `` Apostle of  आयरलैंड '' , he is the प्राथमिक संरक्षक संत of the द्वीप  along with Saints Brigid and Columba .
Two  प्रामाणिक अक्षर इससे उसे जीवित  , from which come the only generally accepted details of his life .
When he was about 16 , he was captured from  उसके घर और लिया as a स्लेव to आयरलैंड , जहाँ he जिया लिये छह सालो पहले escaping और returning  to his family .
After becoming a cleric , he returned to northern and western Ireland as an ordained bishop  , लकिन छोटी is ज्ञात परिचय the स्थान जहाँ he worked  .
By the seventh century , he had already come to be  revered as the संरक्षक संत of आयरलैंड  .
सबसे उपलब्धियाँ विवरण of उसके जीवन  are from subsequent hagiographies , and these are now not accepted without detailed criticism .
The Annals of Ulster state that he  arrived in आयरलैंड in 432 , ministered in ulster around 443 ,  and died in 457 or 461 .
The text , however , distinguishes between `` Old Patrick  '' ( विचार to औसत palladius ) और `` पैट्रिक  , archapostle of the Scots , '' who died in 492 .
The actual dates of  पैट्रिक 's जीवन can नहीं be फिक्स्ड साथ certainty लकिन , on a फैली निर्वचन , he थी क्रियाशील as a मिशनरी  in Ireland during the second half of the 5th century .
He is generally credited with being the  पहला बिशप of armagh , primate of सब  Ireland .
Saint Patrick 's Day is  observed on कूच 17 , the तिथि of उसके मौत  .
It is celebrated both inside and outside Ireland , as both a  धार्मिक और , विशेषकर बाहर आयरलैंड  , secular holiday .
In the dioceses of Ireland , it is  दोनो a solemnity और a पावन दिन of दायित्व ; बाहर आयरलैंड  , it can be a celebration of Ireland itself .
लकीर खण्ड  in the golden ratio
A golden rectangle with longer side a and shorter  पक्ष b , जब लगाई सटा to a वर्गाकार साथ पहलू of लंबाई a , होगा उपज a समान सुनहरी  rectangle with longer side a + b and shorter side a .
This  illustrates  the relationship .
In mathematics and the  कला , दो quantities हैं in the सुनहरी अनुपात if the अनुपात of the योग of  the quantities to the larger quantity is equal to the ratio of the larger quantity to the smaller one .
The figure on the right illustrates  the ज्यामितीय संबंध  .
expressed algebraically:
where the Greek  अक्षर फाई ( ) represents  the golden ratio .
Its  मान is:
The golden ratio is  भी पुकारा the सुनहरी खण्ड  ( Latin : sectio aurea ) or golden mean .
Other names include extreme and mean ratio , medial section , divine  proportion , दैवी खण्ड ( लैटिन : sectio divina ) , सुनहरी proportion , सुनहरी काटें  , and golden number .
Many 20th  सदी कलाकारों और आर्किटेक्ट have proportioned उनके works to सन्निकट the सुनहरी ratio—especially in the रूप of the  golden rectangle , in which the ratio of the longer side to the shorter is the golden ratio—believing this proportion to be aesthetically pleasing ( see Applications and observations below ) .
Mathematicians since Euclid have studied the properties of the golden ratio , including its appearance in the dimensions of a  नियमित प्रस्तुतीकरण और in a सुनहरी आयताकार , जिससे can be काटें into a वर्गाकार और a छोटी आयताकार  with the same aspect ratio .
The golden ratio has also been used to analyze  the proportions of प्राकृतिक वस्तुएँ as खूब as man-made प्रणालियों  such as financial markets , in some cases based on dubious fits to data .
North Myrtle Beach is a coastal resort  नगर in horry काउंटी , दक्षिण  Carolina , United States .
It was created in 1968 from  चार मौजूदा municipalities उत्तर of myrtle बीच , और serves as एक of the  primary tourist towns along the Grand Strand .
The  जनसांख्यिकी थी 13,752 at the  2010 census .
World War I ( WWI ) was a global war centred in Europe that began  on 28 जुलाई 1914 और lasted जबतक 11 नवम्बर  1918 .
It  थी predominantly पुकारा the संसार युद्ध or the ग्रेट युद्ध इससे इसके occurrence  until the start of World War II in 1939 , and the First World War or World War I thereafter .
it शामिल सब the संसार 's ग्रेट शक्तियां , जिससे यहूद समवेत in दो opposing alliances : the allies ( आधारित  on the Triple Entente of the United Kingdom , France and Russia ) and the Central Powers ( originally the Triple Alliance of Germany , Austria-Hungary and Italy ; but , as Austria–Hungary had taken the offensive against the agreement , Italy did not enter into the war ) .
These alliances were both reorganised and  विस्तारित as अधिक राष्ट्र डाला the युद्ध : इटली , जापानी और the संयुक्त राज्य joined the allies , और the उस्मानी साम्राज्य और  Bulgaria the Central Powers .
Ultimately , more  than 70 लाख सैन्य कर्मियों , सहित 60 लाख europeans  , were mobilised in one of the largest wars in history .
अधिक than 9 लाख combatants यहूद मारे , largely क्युकी of technological advancements  that led to enormous increases in the lethality of weapons without corresponding improvements in protection or mobility .
It was the fifth- deadliest conflict in world history ,  subsequently paving the रास्ता लिये विभिन्न राजनैतिक परिवर्तन , ऐसे  as revolutions in many of the nations involved .
One of the long-term causes of the war  थी the पुनरुत्थान of साम्राज्यवाद in the विदेशी नीतियों of the ग्रेट शक्तियां  of Europe .
More immediately , the assassination of  archduke फ्रांज फर्डिनेंड of ऑस्ट्रिया , the वारिस to the सिंहासन of austria-hungary , on 28 जून 1914 by यूगोस्लाव राष्ट्रवादी gavrilo princip in साराजेवो  triggered a diplomatic crisis when Austria-Hungary subsequently delivered an ultimatum to the Kingdom of Serbia .
अनेक alliances formed over the  previous decades were invoked .
Within weeks , the major  शक्तियां यहूद at युद्ध और , via उनके colonies , the विरोध जल्द  spread around the world .
On 28 July , the Austro-Hungarians fired the first  गोलियाँ of the युद्ध as तैयारी लिये the आक्रमण of सर्बिया  .
While the Russians  mobilised , the germans invaded न्यूट्रल बेल्जियम और ध्वज  on the way to France , providing a casus belli for Britain 's declaration of war against Germany .
After the German march on Paris was  brought to a halt—the so-called चमत्कार of the marne —the पश्चिमी सामने settled into a स्थिर बैटल of अपघर्षण  with a trench line that changed little until 1917 .
On the Eastern Front , the  रूसी फौज थी कामयाब विरूद्ध the austro-hungarians , लकिन थी रोका  in its invasion of East Prussia by the Germans .
In November the Ottoman Empire joined the war  , खोलने up fronts in the काकेशस , मेसोपोटामिया और  the Sinai .
Italy and  बुल्गारिया गई to युद्ध in 1915 और  Romania in 1916 .
In Russia , the tsar 's government  collapsed in कूच 1917 और a subsequent क्रान्ति in नवम्बर brought  the Russians to terms with the Central Powers .
After a 1918 German offensive along the western front , the Allies drove back  the germans in a श्रेणी of कामयाब offensives और  American forces began entering the trenches .
Germany , which had its own trouble with revolutionaries ,  सहमत to an armistice on  11 November 1918 .
The war  ended in विजय लिये  the Allies .
Events on the  घर fronts यहूद as उग्र as on the बैटल fronts , as the भागीदार आजमाया to mobilize  their manpower and economic resources to fight a total war .
By the  समाप्त of the युद्ध , चार प्रमुख इम्पीरियल powers—the जर्मनी , रूसी  , Austro-Hungarian and Ottoman empires—ceased to exist .
The successor states of the former two lost a great  राशि of territory , जबकि the latter दो  were dismantled entirely .
The map of central  यूरोपीय थी redrawn into  several smaller states .
The League of Nations was  formed in the आशा of preventing  another such conflict .
The European nationalism spawned by the  युद्ध और the ब्रेकअप of empires , the परखना of जर्मनी 's शिकस्त और समस्याएं साथ the सन्धि of versailles  are agreed to be factors contributing to World War II .
Camden is  a नगर in camden काउंटी  , New Jersey , United States .
It is the  काउंटी सीट , स्तिथ आरपार the  Delaware River from Philadelphia .
As of the 2010 United States Census the  नगर था a कुल जनसांख्यिकी of 77,344 , representing a मनाही of 2,560 ( 3.2 % )  from the 79,904 residents enumerated during the 2000 Census , which had in turn declined by 7,588 ( 8.7 % ) from the 87,492 counted in the 1990 Census .
Camden ranked as the 12th-most populous municipality in the  राज्य in 2010 बाद having महरूम क्रमित 10th  in 2000 .
Camden was originally  incorporated as a नगर on फ़रवरी 13 , 1828 , इससे portions of the now-defunct  Newton Township , while the area was still part of Gloucester County .
On March 13 , 1844 ,  camden became भाग of the newly formed  Camden County .
Although once a thriving center for manufacturing and industry , Camden is perhaps  बेहतरीन ज्ञात लिये इसके struggles साथ  urban dysfunction .
Three  camden mayors have महरूम jailed लिये भ्रष्टाचार  , the most recent being Milton Milan in 2000 .
चूंकि 2005 the स्कूल प्रणाली और पुलिस विभाग have महरूम  operated by the state of New Jersey ; the takeover expired in 2012 .
In  2008 , camden था the उच्चतम अपराधों रेट in the u.S. साथ 2,333 हिंसक  crimes per 100,000 people while the national average was 455 per 100,000 .
Camden public schools spent $ 23,770 per student ( $ 19,118 on a budgetary per-pupil basis )  in the 2009–10 स्कूल साल और two-thirds of the विद्यार्थी ग्रैजुएट  .
Two out of every five  निवासियों हैं नीचे the नेशनल गरीबी  line .
Amitriptyline ( Tryptomer , Elavil , Tryptizol ,  laroxyl , saroten , sarotex , lentizol , endep ) is a tricyclic  antidepressant ( TCA ) .
It is the most widely used TCA and has  at तनिक बराबर efficacy विरूद्ध अवसाद as the नए  class of SSRIs according to a study from early 2001 .
As well as reducing depressive  लक्षण , ये प्रकार of tricyclics भी आसानी migraines , टेंशन headaches  , anxiety attacks and some schizophrenic symptoms .
It is  भी ज्ञात to reduce आक्रामकता  and violent behavior .
A computer is a  सामान्य purpose यंत्र कि can be प्रोग्रामित to carry आउट a  finite set of arithmetic or logical operations .
Since a sequence of operations can be readily  बदला , the कंप्यूटर can solve अधिक  than one kind of problem .
Conventionally , a computer consists of  at तनिक एक प्रसंस्करण तत्व , typically a सेंट्रल प्रसंस्करण ईकाई ( cpu ) और कुछ रूप  of memory .
The processing element  carries आउट गणित और लॉजिक परिचालन , और a sequencing और  control unit that can change the order of operations based on stored information .
परिधीय डिवाइस allow  information to be retrieved from an external source , and the result of operations saved and retrieved .
The first electronic digital computers were developed between  1940 और 1945 in the संयुक्त किंगडम और संयुक्त राज्य  .
originally वे यहूद the आकार of a विशाल रूम , consuming as much  power as several hundred modern personal computers ( PCs ) .
in इस era mechanical एनालॉग कंप्यूटर यहूद प्रयुक्त  for military applications .
Modern computers based on integrated circuits are millions to  अरबों of टाइम्स अधिक सक्षम than the जल्दी मशीने , और occupy a भिन्न  of the space .
Simple computers are small enough to fit into  मोबाईल डिवाइस , और मोबाईल कंप्यूटर can be संचालित  by small batteries .
निजी कंप्यूटर in उनके विभिन्न फ़ॉर्म हैं प्रतीक  of the Information Age and are what most people think of as “computers.”
However , the embedded computers found in  अनेक डिवाइस इससे mp3 खिलाड़ी to सेनानी वायुयान और इससे  toys to industrial robots are the most numerous .
`` Barefoot and pregnant  '' is a phrase सबसे commonly संबद्ध साथ the विवादास्पद विचार कि महिलाओं चाहिए नहीं कार्य  outside the home and should have many children during their reproductive years .
It has  अनेक अन्य meanings  as well .
It is a figure  of वाक .
The phrase `` barefoot and pregnant '' was probably first used  sometime पहले 1950  .
An article from 1949 states  , `` by जल्दी 1949 , twa was—in the शब्द of इसके नई अध्यक्ष  , Ralph S. Damon—both 'barefoot and pregnant . ' ''
Its usage may date  as जल्दी as the 1910s  .
An article published in 1958 states the phrase was  पहला प्रयुक्त by a `` dr. hertzler '' 40 सालो  earlier .
`` Some forty  सालो पहले , dr. hertzler उन्नत a परिकल्पना जिससे यंग महिलाओं  of today seem bent on proving correct. '
The only way to keep a woman happy , ' he said  , 'is to रखना उसके barefoot और गर्भवती  . ' ''
Oakhurst is a census-designated place and  unincorporated जातियाँ भीतर समंदर township  , in Monmouth County , New Jersey , United States .
As of  the 2010 संयुक्त राज्य जनसांख्यिकी , the cdp  's population was 3,995 .
University of Phoenix Stadium , opened August 1 ,  2006 , is a बहुउद्देशीय फ़ुटबॉल स्टेडियम स्तिथ in ग्लेनडेल  , Arizona .
It is the home of the Arizona Cardinals of  the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग ( एनएफएल  ) and the annual Fiesta Bowl .
The stadium is located next door to the Jobing.com Arena and it features  the पहला fully retractable प्राकृतिक ग्रास playing सतह निर्मित  in the United States on top of an AirField Systems drainage system .
an खोलने on एक पक्ष of the स्टेडियम allows the playing फ़ील्ड to मूव  to the exterior of the building , allowing the entire natural turf playing surface to be exposed to daylight .
The stadium has hosted Super Bowl  xlii , और the 2011 bcs नेशनल चैंपियनशिप खेल , a खेल कि it होस्ट प्रत्येक  four years , which set the venue 's entertainment attendance record of 78,603 on January 11 , 2011 .
It  होगा again मेजबान सुपर  Bowl XLIX in 2015 .
The University of  फीनिक्स acquired the नामकरण अधिकारों in सितंबर 2006 , shortly  after the stadium had opened under the name Cardinals Stadium .
The `` University of Phoenix `` name is applied as a corporate sponsor , and not as the  घर स्टेडियम of the विश्वविद्यालयों ( जिससे रै no intercollegiate एथलेटिक्स कार्यक्रम )  .
The stadium  रै भी hosted the डब्ल्यूडब्ल्यूई इवेंट रेसलमेनिया  XXVI with 72,219 fans in attendance .
The event  थी आयोजित in the स्टेडियम on कूच  28th 2010 .
Joshua Lawrence Chamberlain ( September 8 , 1828 – February 24 , 1914 ) , born as  लॉरेंस जोशुआ चेम्बरलेन , थी an अमरीकी कॉलेज प्राध्यापक इससे the राज्य of maine , जो volunteered दौरान the अमरीकी  Civil War to join the Union Army .
Although having no earlier education in military strategies , he became a highly respected and decorated Union officer ,  reaching the रैंक of ब्रिगेडियर सामान्य ( और brevet  major general ) .
For his gallantry at Gettysburg , he  थी awarded the पदक of सम्मान  .
He was given the honor of commanding the Union  सैनिकों at the आत्मसमर्पण रस्म लिये the infantry of रॉबर्ट E. ली 's फौज at appomattox ,  Virginia .
After the war , he entered politics as a  रिपब्लिकन और परोसा चार one-year शर्तें of दफ्तर as the 32nd राज्यपाल  of Maine .
He served  on the संकाय , और  as president , of his alma mater , Bowdoin College .
An inning , or innings , is a  fixed-length खण्ड of a खेल in कोई of a किस्में of खेल – सबसे notably क्रिकेट और बेसबॉल दौरान जिससे एक टोली कोशिशें  to score while the other team attempts to prevent the first from scoring .
In cricket , the  पद पारी is दोनो एकवचन और बहुवचन  and is always spelled and pronounced with the terminal `` s '' .
In baseball  और सॉफ्टबॉल , the एकवचन रूप is inning और  only the plural takes an `` s '' .
In many other sports , the length of the game is dictated by a clock and  टीमों स्वैप अप्रिय और रक्षात्मक भूमिकाएँ dynamically by लेने कब्ज़ा of a बॉल or समान  item .
In baseball and cricket , however , one team , said to be `` batting '' , attempts to score `` runs '' —see run ( baseball ) and run ( cricket ) —while  the अन्य टोली , कहा to be `` क्षेत्ररक्षण '' , कोशिशें to prevent the स्कोरिंग of रनों और मिलेंगी सदस्यों of the बल्लेबाजी  team out .
The teams switch places after the fielding team has succeeded in getting a  फिक्स्ड क्रमांक of खिलाड़ी आउट , बनाना a क्लॉक अनावश्यक  .
In  क्रिकेट , the पद पारी is भी प्रयुक्त to refer to the खेल  of one particular player ( Smith had a poor innings , scoring only 12 ) .
By extension , this term can be used in British  अंग्रेज़ी लिये लगभग कोई कार्यकलाप जिससे takes a काल of समय ( the उदार सरकारी था a शुभ पारी , लकिन आखिरकार  lost office in 1972 , or You 've had a fair innings , now it 's my turn , meaning `` you have spoken for long enough , now let me speak '' ) .
It is also used in reference to someone who has died at a reasonably old  आयु or जिया a समृद्ध और rewarding जीवन ( ah , खूब  .
जॉन थी  89 .
At least  he था a शुभ  innings ) .
The  baseball-derived समानांतर to इस in अमरीकी अंग्रेज़ी is the  term at bat .
According to the Oxford English Dictionary , the term  पारी रै महरूम प्रयुक्त in सन्दर्भ to क्रिकेट चूंकि  at least 1735 .
As cricket was a mature , highly organized sport in the 1600s in England  , the पद 's उत्पत्ति could खूब precede इस पहला  recorded usage .
the शब्द inning अर्थ 'a महफ़िल in  ' is first recorded in 1522 , and could be related .
Adenosine deaminase deficiency , also called ADA deficiency or  ada-scid , is an autosomal recessive metabolic विकार कि  causes immunodeficiency .
It occurs  in कम than एक in 100,000  live births worldwide .
It accounts for about 15 %  of सब मामले of कठोर संयुक्त  immunodeficiency ( SCID ) .
It is very rare  , तुम have a 3 % मौका of  getting this gene .
ADA deficiency may be present in  शैशव , बाल्यकाल , adolescense ,  or adulthood .
Age of onset and  गंभीरता is सम्बन्धित to कुछ 29 ज्ञात genotypes संबद्ध  with the disorder .
An example  of शहरी गरीबी in इस slum in जकार्ता  , Indonesia
Poverty is the state of one who lacks a  निश्चित राशि of सामग्री possessions or धन  .
Absolute poverty or destitution  refers to the पिछडे of मौलिक इंसान needs , जिससे commonly शामिल  food , water , sanitation , clothing , shelter , health care and education .
Relative poverty is  पारिभाषित contextually as आर्थिक असमानता in the स्थान  or society in which people live .
लिये much of इतिहास , गरीबी थी माना largely अपरिहार्य as परंपरागत मोड्स of  production were insufficient to give an entire population a comfortable standard of living .
After the  औद्योगिक क्रान्ति , द्रव्यमान उत्पादन in कारखानों बना  wealth increasingly more inexpensive and accessible .
Of more importance is the  modernization of कृषि , ऐसे as fertilizers ,  in order to provide enough yield to feed the population .
The supply of basic  needs can be प्रतिबंधित by constraints on सरकारी सेवाएं ऐसे as भ्रष्टाचार , कर avoidance  , debt and loan conditionalities and by the brain drain of health care and educational professionals .
Strategies of increasing income to  मेक मौलिक needs अधिक सस्ती typically शामिल welfare ,  economic freedoms , and providing financial services .
Poverty reduction is a major goal and issue for many  अंतरराष्ट्रीय संगठन ऐसे as the संयुक्त राष्ट्र और the  World Bank .
The World Bank estimated 1.29 billion  लोगों यहूद जीना in निरपेक्ष गरीबी in 2008 .
Of these , about 400 million people in  निरपेक्ष गरीबी जिया in इण्डिया और  173 million people in China .
In USA 1 in 5  children जीवनदान in गरीबी  .
In terms of percentage of regional  populations , sub-saharan अफ़्रीकी at 47 % था the उच्चतम incidence रेट of  absolute poverty in 2008 .
Between 1990 and 2010 , about 663  लाख लोगों स्थानांतरित ऊपर the निरपेक्ष  poverty level .
Still , extreme poverty is a global challenge ;  it is observed in सब भाग of the संसार , सहित  the developed economies .
Mushroom  विषाक्तता ( भी ज्ञात as mycetism  ) refers to harmful effects from ingestion of toxic substances present in a mushroom .
These symptoms can vary  इससे पतला जठरांत्र तकलीफ  to death .
The toxins present are secondary metabolites  उत्पादित in विशिष्ट biochemical pathways in the  fungal cells .
Mushroom poisoning is usually the result of  ingestion of जंगली मशरूम बाद misidentification of a विषाक्त मशरूम  as an edible species .
The most common  कारण लिये इस misidentification is बंद प्रतिरूप in  terms of colour and general morphology of the toxic mushrooms species with edible species .
Even  बहुत अनुभवी जंगली मशरूम gatherers हैं upon विरल अवसर  poisoned by eating toxic species , despite being well aware of the risks , through carelessness .
To prevent  मशरूम विषाक्तता , मशरूम gatherers need to be बहुत  familiar with the mushrooms they intend to collect as well as with any similar-looking toxic species .
In addition , edibility of  मशरूम may निर्भर on विधि  of preparation for cooking .
Collectors also need to be well aware that edibility or  toxicity of कुछ प्रजाति varies साथ भौगोलिक स्थान .
Human  ऊँचाई is the अलहदा इससे the नीचे of the फीट to the शीर्ष of the  head in a human body , standing erect .
When populations share genetic background and  पर्यावरणीय कारकों , औसत ऊँचाई  is frequently characteristic within the group .
Exceptional height variation ( around 20 %  विचलन इससे औसत ) भीतर ऐसे a जनसांख्यिकी is sometimes due to gigantism  or dwarfism , which are medical conditions caused by specific genes or endocrine abnormalities .
In regions of  चरम गरीबी or prolonged warfare , पर्यावरणीय कारकों जैसे दीर्घकालिक कुपोषण दौरान बाल्यकाल or किशोरावस्था may खाता लिये विलम्बित विकास and/or ( in कठोर  cases ) marked reductions in adult stature even without the presence of any of these medical conditions .
Apollo 11 was the spaceflight that landed the first humans  , अमेरिकी neil आर्मस्ट्रांग और बज़ एल्ड्रिन  , on the Moon on July 20 , 1969 , at 20:18 UTC .
Armstrong became the first to step onto  the चंद्र सतह 6 घंटों बाद on जुलाई 21 at  02:56 UTC .
Armstrong spent about two and a half  घंटों बाहर the spacecraft , एल्ड्रिन थोड़ा कम ; और साथ वे एकत्रित of चंद्र  material for return to Earth .
A third member of the mission , Michael Collins , piloted the command spacecraft alone in lunar orbit until  आर्मस्ट्रांग और एल्ड्रिन लौटे to it बस अंतर्गत a दिन बाद लिये the ट्रिप वापस to  Earth .
Launched by a  शनि v प्रक्षेपास्त्र इससे कैनेडी स्पेस बीच in  Merritt Island , Florida on July 16 , Apollo 11 was the fifth manned mission of NASA 's Apollo program .
The Apollo spacecraft had three parts : a Command Module with a cabin for the three astronauts which was the only part which landed  वापस on धरती ; a सेवा मोड्यूल जिससे समर्थित the कमांड मोड्यूल साथ नोदन , विद्युत  power , oxygen and water ; and a Lunar Module for landing on the Moon .
After being sent to the Moon by the Saturn V 's upper stage , the  astronauts अलग the spacecraft इससे it और travelled लिये तीन दिनों जबतक  they entered into lunar orbit .
Armstrong and Aldrin then moved into the Lunar  मोड्यूल और उतरा in  the Sea of Tranquility .
They stayed a total of about 21 and a  हाफ घंटों on the चंद्र  surface .
After lifting off in the upper part of the  चंद्र मोड्यूल और rejoining कॉलिन्स in the कमांड मोड्यूल , वे  returned to Earth and landed in the Pacific Ocean on July 24 .
ब्रॉडकास्ट on सजीव tv to a world-wide दर्शक , आर्मस्ट्रांग stepped onto the चंद्र  surface and described the event as `` one small step for [ a ] man , one giant leap for mankind . ''
Apollo 11 effectively ended the Space Race and fulfilled a national goal proposed in 1961  by the लेट u.S. अध्यक्ष जॉन F. कैनेडी in a वाक पहले the संयुक्त राज्य कॉंग्रेस , `` पहले इस दशक is आउट , of  landing a man on the Moon and returning him safely to the Earth . ''
The FIFA World Cup , often simply  the संसार कप , is an अंतरराष्ट्रीय संघ फ़ुटबॉल प्रतियोगिता लडे by the वरिष्ठ मेन 's नेशनल टीमों of the  members of Fédération Internationale de Football Association ( FIFA ) , the sport 's global governing body .
The championship has been awarded every four  सालो चूंकि the inaugural टूर्नामेंट in 1930 , मगर in 1942 और 1946 जब it थी नहीं आयोजित  because of the Second World War .
The current  champions हैं स्पेन , जो जीती  the 2010 tournament .
The current format of the tournament involves 32 teams competing for the  शीर्षक at venues भीतर the मेजबान स्वदेश ( s ) over a काल of परिचय  a month ; this phase is often called the World Cup Finals .
A qualification phase , which currently takes place over the preceding three years , is used to  determine जिससे टीमों qualify लिये the टूर्नामेंट साथ साथ the मेजबान स्वदेश ( s  ) .
The 19  संसार कप tournaments have महरूम  won by eight different national teams .
ब्राज़ील have जीती पाँच टाइम्स , और वे  are the only team to have played in every tournament .
The other World Cup winners are Italy , with four titles ; Germany ,  साथ तीन शीर्षक ; अर्जेंटीना और inaugural विजेता उरुग्वे , साथ दो शीर्षक प्रत्येक ; और इंग्लैण्ड  , France , and Spain , with one title each .
The World Cup is the world 's most widely viewed  sporting इवेंट ; an अनुमानित 715.1 लाख लोगों देखी the फाइनल मैच of the 2006 फीफा संसार  Cup held in Germany .
The next  तीन संसार cups होगा be hosted  by Brazil in 2014 , Russia in 2018 , and Qatar in 2022 .
नरसंहार is a पद coined in 1944 by राफेल lemkin to describe the deliberate और व्यवस्थित विनाश , in पूरे  or in part , of an ethnic , racial , religious , or national group .
It is defined in Article 2 of the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide ( CPPCG  ) of 1948 as `` कोई of the following अधिनियमों वचनबद्ध साथ intent to नष्ट , in पूरे or in भाग , a नेशनल , ethnical , जातिगत or धार्मिक समूह , as ऐसे : हत्या सदस्यों of the समूह ; causing गंभीर bodily or दिमागी नुक़सान to सदस्यों of the समूह ; deliberately inflicting on the समूह शर्तें of जीवन  , calculated to bring about its physical destruction in whole or in part ; imposing measures intended to prevent births within the group ; [ and ] forcibly transferring children of the group to another group . ''
skulls of पीड़ितों of the rwandan  Genocide
The preamble to the CPPCG  नहीं तभी राज्य कि `` नरसंहार is a अपराधों अंतर्गत अंतरराष्ट्रीय विधि , contrary to the स्पिरिट और aims of the संयुक्त राष्ट्र और condemned  by the civilized world '' , but also that `` at all periods of history genocide has inflicted great losses on humanity '' .
Determining what historical  कार्यक्रम constitute a नरसंहार और जिससे हैं merely दण्ड or अमानवीय बर्ताव  is not a clear-cut matter .
In nearly every case where  आरोपों of नरसंहार have परिचालित , partisans of विभिन्न पहलू have fiercely विवादित the निर्वचन और  details of the event , often to the point of promoting wildly different versions of the facts .
An  accusation of नरसंहार is कतई नहीं लिया  lightly and will almost always be controversial .
The following list of genocides and alleged genocides should  be समझा in इस कॉन्टेक्स्ट और can नहीं be regarded as the  final word on these subjects .
A timing belt is a non-slipping  mechanical ड्राइव बेल्ट और the पद may refer to  either:
toothed बेल्ट , a लचीली बेल्ट  with teeth moulded onto its inner surface
Timing belt  ( camshaft ) , a toothed बेल्ट प्रयुक्त to ड्राइव the camshaft  ( s ) within an internal combustion engine
The culture of the United States is primarily a Western culture , but is also influenced by Native American , African ,  एशियाई , पोलिनेशियाई , और लैटिन अमरीकी संस्कृतियों  .
American culture started its formation over  10,000 सालो पहले साथ the माइग्रेशन of paleo-indians इससे एशिया into the  region that is today the continental United States .
It has its own  अद्वितीय सोशल और सांस्कृतिक विशेषताएँ ऐसे as dialect , म्यूज़िक , कला  , social habits , cuisine , and folklore .
The United States of America is an ethnically and racially diverse country as a result of  large-scale आव्रजन इससे अनेक अलग देशों  throughout its history .
Its chief early European  प्रभाव आए इससे अंग्रेज़ी , स्कॉटिश , वेल्श और आयरिश settlers of  colonial America during British rule .
British culture , due to colonial ties with Britain that spread the English language , legal system and other  सांस्कृतिक inheritances , था a formative influence  .
Other important influences  आए इससे अन्य भाग of पश्चिमी यूरोपीय , विशेषकर  Germany , France , and Italy .
Original  तत्व भी खेल a दमदार भूमिका , ऐसे as the आविष्कार  of Jeffersonian democracy .
Thomas Jefferson 's Notes on  the राज्य of वर्जिनिया थी शायद the पहला influential घरेलू सांस्कृतिक critique by an अमरीकी और a प्रतिक्रियावादी टुकड़ा to the प्रचलित यूरोपीय  consensus that America 's domestic originality was degenerate .
Prevalent ideas and ideals that evolved domestically , such as national  छुट्टियाँ , uniquely अमरीकी खेल , सैन्य परंपरा , और नवप्रवर्तनों in the कला और entertainment दे a दमदार  sense of national pride among the population as a whole .
American culture includes both  रूढ़िवादी और उदार तत्व , वैज्ञानिक और धार्मिक प्रतिस्पर्धात्मकता , राजनैतिक  structures , risk taking and free expression , materialist and moral elements .
Despite certain consistent ideological principles ( e.g . individualism , egalitarianism ,  और आस्था in स्वतंत्रता और लोकतंत्र ) , अमरीकी संस्कृति रै a किस्में of expressions due to इसके भौगोलिक स्केल और जनसांख्यिकी  diversity .
The flexibility of U.S. culture and its highly symbolic  प्रकृति सीसे कुछ शोधकर्ताओं to categorize अमरीकी संस्कृति  as a mythic identity ; others see it as American exceptionalism .
It also includes elements that evolved  इससे स्वदेशी अमेरिकी , और अन्य जातीय cultures—most prominently the संस्कृति of अफ़्रीकी अमेरिकी  , cultures from Latin America , and Asian American cultures .
Many American cultural elements , especially from popular  संस्कृति , have स्प्रेड आरपार the ग्लोब through  modern mass media .
the संयुक्त राज्य रै प्रायः महरूम विचार of as a melting घट , लकिन शुरूआत  in the late 1990s and early 2000s , it trends towards cultural diversity , pluralism and the image of a salad bowl instead .
Due to the extent of American culture , there are many integrated but  अद्वितीय सोशल subcultures भीतर  the United States .
The cultural affiliations an individual in the United States may have commonly depend on social  क्लास , राजनैतिक अभिविन्यास और a multitude of जनसांख्यिकी विशेषताएँ ऐसे as धार्मिक पृष्ठभूमि , occupation और जातीय समूह  membership .
Samoan ( Gagana fa'a Sāmoa or  gagana sāmoa — आईपीए : ) is the भाषा of the samoan आइलैंड्स , comprising  the independent country of Samoa and the United States territory of American Samoa .
It is an official  language—alongside अंग्रेज़ी  —in both jurisdictions .
samoan , a पोलिनेशियाई भाषा , is the पहला  language for most of the Samoa Islands ' population of about 246,000 .
With  अनेक samoan लोगों जीना in अन्य देशों  , the total number of speakers worldwide is estimated at 370,000 .
The language is notable for the phonological differences between formal and informal speech as  खूब as a ceremonial रूप प्रयुक्त in samoan छाये  .
A glucose tolerance test is a medical test in which glucose  is दिए और रक्त नमूने लिया  afterward to determine how quickly it is cleared from the blood .
The test is usually used to test for diabetes , insulin resistance , and sometimes reactive  hypoglycemia और acromegaly , or rarer विकार of शर्करा चयापचय  .
In the most commonly performed version of the test , an oral glucose tolerance test (  ogtt ) , a मानक खुराक of ग्लूकोज is ingested by  mouth and blood levels are checked two hours later .
Many variations of  the gtt have महरूम devised over the सालो लिये विभिन्न उद्देश्य , साथ अलग मानक  doses of glucose , different routes of administration , different intervals and durations of sampling , and various substances measured in addition to blood glucose .
`` कया परिचय me '' is a सोंग लिखा by गैरी तुषार और frances swan , पहला अंकित by ऑस्ट्रेलियाई  rock band Moving Pictures from their album Days of Innocence .
It was the band 's first number-one single in Australia  बिता छह लगातार सप्ताह on the  top ; there , it was the second-highest selling single of 1982 .
The success of the song led them to  अमेरिका जहाँ it became  a hit , reaching # 29 on the U.S . Billboard Hot 100 chart .
The song  ठहरे in the u.S. चार्ट लिये ऐसे a long समय कि it प्रबंधित to मेक billboards शीर्ष 100 पॉप singles of  1983 , at # 88 , a rare feat for a single with such a low peak position .
The song made an unusual comeback in  1989 , peaking at  # 46 .
On the left a chicken egg , the egg most  commonly खाया by इंसानो , और on the सही दो बटेर  eggs
Eggs are laid by females of many different  प्रजाति , सहित पक्षियों , सरीसृपों , amphibians , और मछली , और have महरूम खाया by  mankind for thousands of years .
Bird and reptile eggs consist of a  सुरक्षात्मक eggshell , albumen ( अंडा श्वेत ) , और vitellus (  egg yolk ) , contained within various thin membranes .
Popular choices for egg consumption are chicken , duck ,  बटेर , roe , और caviar , लकिन the अंडा सबसे  often consumed by humans is the chicken egg , by a wide margin .
Egg  yolks और पूरे अंडे स्टोर significant  amounts of protein and choline , and are widely used in cookery .
Due to their protein content , the United  राज्य विभाग of कृषि ( यूएसडीए )  categorizes eggs as Meats within the Food Guide Pyramid .
Despite the nutritional value of eggs , there are some potential health issues  arising इससे अंडा विशेषता , भंडार , और व्यक्तिगत allergies  .
मुर्गियों और अन्य egg-laying जीव हैं widely रखा  throughout the world , and mass production of chicken eggs is a global industry .
In 2009 , an estimated 62.1 million metric tons of eggs were  उत्पादित विश्वव्यापी इससे a कुल लेटा झुण्ड of लगभग  6.4 billion hens .
There are issues of regional variation in  माँग और अपेक्षा , as खूब as वर्तमान debates concerning विधि of द्रव्यमान उत्पादन  , with the European Union 's ban on battery farming of chickens .
Major League Soccer ( MLS ) is a professional  सॉकर लीग representing the खेल 's उच्चतम  level in the United States and Canada .
Sanctioned by the United States Soccer  संघ ( u.S. सॉकर ) , the लीग is रचित of 19 टीमों — 16 in the u.S. और 3  in Canada .
Seasons presently run  इससे कूच to दिसम्बर , साथ प्रत्येक टोली  playing 34 games in the regular season .
Ten teams  compete in the postseason mls कप playoffs culminating  in the championship game , the MLS Cup .
Major League Soccer  थी संस्थापित in 1993 as भाग of the संयुक्त राज्य ' बोली to मेजबान the 1994  FIFA World Cup .
The first season took  प्लेस in 1996 शुरूआत साथ टेन  teams .
Instead of operating as an association of independently owned teams , MLS is a  सिंगल एंटिटी जहाँ प्रत्येक टोली is स्वामित्व और नियंत्रित by the लीग 's  investors .
The league 's closed membership makes it one  of the संसार 's few सॉकर  leagues not using promotion and relegation .
The legality of  कैनबिस varies इससे देश to देश  .
Possession of cannabis is illegal in most countries and has been since the  शुरूआत of फैली कैनबिस निषेध in the लेट  1930s .
However ,  अनेक देशों have decriminalized the कब्ज़ा  of small quantities of cannabis , particularly in North America , South America and Europe .
Furthermore , possession is legal  or effectively विधिक in the नीदरलैंड्स , उत्तर कोरियाई और होता be in  the U.S. states of Colorado and Washington if it were not for federal law , which governs persons in all states .
The medicinal use of cannabis is legal in a number of countries ,  सहित कनाडा , the चेक गणतंत्र और  Israel .
जबकि संघीय विधि in the संयुक्त राज्य bans सब बिक्री और कब्ज़ा of कैनबिस , प्रवर्तन varies widely at the राज्य स्तर और कुछ राज्य have स्थापित औषधीय मारिजुआना  programs in that contradict federal law ; two states ( Colorado and Washington ) have repealed their laws prohibiting the recreational use of cannabis and replaced them with a regulatory regime , also contrary to federal statute .
Some countries have laws that are not as vigorously prosecuted as others  लकिन , अलावा इससे the देशों कि प्रस्ताव अभिगम to चिकित्सा मारिजुआना , सबसे देशों have विभिन्न दंड ranging इससे  lenient to very severe .
Some infractions are taken more seriously in some countries than others in regard to the  cultivation , उपयोग , कब्ज़ा or ट्रांसफ़र of कैनबिस लिये recreational  use .
A few jurisdictions have lessened penalties for possession  of छोटी quantities of कैनबिस , बनाना it दंडनीय by confiscation और a ठीक , बल्कि than कारावास  .
Some jurisdictions/ drug courts use mandatory treatment programs for  यंग or बारंबार उपयोक्ता , साथ स्वतंत्रता इससे narcotic दवाएँ as the लक्ष्य और a few jurisdictions  permit cannabis use for medicinal purposes .
वहीँ हैं भी परिवर्तन in a अधिक प्रतिबंधक  direction as in Canada .
Drug tests to detect cannabis are increasingly common in many  देशों और have resulted in कारावास वाक्य और लोगों खोने उनके  jobs .
However , simple possession can carry long jail sentences in some  देशों , विशेषकर in भाग of ईस्ट एशिया और southeast एशिया  where the sale of cannabis may lead to a sentence of life in prison or even execution .
In cardiovascular physiology , ejection fraction ( EF )  represents the आयतनी भिन्न of रक्त उत्तेजित आउट of the ventricle ( दिल ) साथ प्रत्येक दिल ताल or  cardiac cycle .
It can be applied to either the right  ventricle जिससे ejects via the pulmonary वाल्व into the pulmonary परिसंचरण or the बाएँ ventricle जिससे  ejects via the aortic valve into the systemic circulation .
Imaging of the physiology of the  mammalian दिल is the आर्ट कि allows सार्थक गणितीय  expression defining EF .
Noninvasive cardiac  इमेजिंग रै become a विश्वव्यापी यूटिलिटी enabling पढ़ाई of  cardiac performance reproducibly and inexpensively .
Simplified , Ejection fraction is a  गणितीय उत्पाद अनुमत by हृदय इमेजिंग .
As a mathematical term , Ejection Fraction is an  एक्सटेंशन of the कार्य of एडाल्फ फिक in हृदय आउटपुट  .
Dedicated  प्रौद्योगिकी ऐसे as इकोकार्डियोग्राफी , computed टोमोग्राफी , चुम्बकीय अनुनाद इमेजिंग और muga स्कैनिंग have definitively अनुमत clinically प्रासंगिक  mathematics regarding Ischemia , Congenital Heart Disease and Heart Failure .
State Route 14 ( SR 14 ) is a north–south state highway  in the u.S. राज्य of कैलिफ़ोर्निया , largely in the mojave मरुस्थल  .
The southern portion of  the राजमार्ग is हस्ताक्षरित as the antelope  Valley Freeway .
The route connects Interstate 5 , or Golden State  फ्रीवे , निकट सांता clarita और साथ u.S. रूट 395  near Inyokern .
Legislatively , the route extends south of I-5 to  राज्य रूट 1 in the प्रशांत palisades क्षेत्रफल of लॉस एंजिल्स , however the portion दक्षिण of the  junction with I-5 has not been constructed .
The southern part of the constructed route is a busy commuter freeway serving and  connecting the समुदायों of सांता clarita , palmdale और lancaster साथ the बाकी of  the Greater Los Angeles area .
The  उत्तरी portion , इससे विंसेंट ( दक्षिण of palmdale ) to रूट 395 , is legislatively नामित the  Aerospace Highway , as the highway serves Edwards Air Force Base , once one of the primary landing strips for NASA 's Space Shuttle .
This section is rural , following the line  between the hot mojave मरुस्थल और the forming सिएरा नेवाडा पहाड़ दायरा  .
Most of Route 14 is loosely paralleled by a main line of the Southern Pacific Railroad , used for the Antelope Valley Line of the Metrolink commuter rail  प्रणाली as खूब as a कनेक्शन between लॉस एंजिल्स और the कैलिफ़ोर्निया सेंट्रल घाटी via tehachapi  Pass .
Linked with US 395 , this road connects Los Angeles with such places as Mammoth  पहाड़ , मोनो झील , yosemite नेशनल पार्क और रेनो , नेवाडा  .
Route 14 was part of U.S. Route 6 prior to truncation in 1964 , when U.S. 6  थी a coast-to-coast रूट इससे long बीच to provincetown , मैसाचुसेट्स  .
The non-freeway segment of SR 14 from  चांदी महारानी सड़क उत्तर of rosamond to mojave is ज्ञात as सिएरा राजमार्ग ,  as is the old routing between Interstate 5 and Silver Queen Road where SR 14 has been moved to a newer freeway alignment .
Portions of  रूट 14 remain हस्ताक्षरित साथ names संबद्ध साथ us 6 , सहित मिडलैंड ट्रेल ,  Theodore Roosevelt Highway and Grand Army of the Republic Highway .
This  रूट is भाग of the कैलिफ़ोर्निया फ्रीवे  and Expressway System .
Blindness is the condition of lacking  विज़ुअल बोध due to physiological or neurological  factors .
Various scales have been developed to describe  the extent of दृष्टि घाटा और define  blindness .
Total blindness is  the पूरा कमी of रूप और विज़ुअल लाइट बोध और is clinically अंकित as nlp , an संक्षिप्त  for `` no light perception . ''
दृष्टिहीनता is अक्सर प्रयुक्त to describe कठोर विज़ुअल पुतलियों साथ  vision .
Those described as having only light perception  have no अधिक sight than the क्षमता to बताना लाइट इससे अंधेरा और the सामान्य  direction of a light source .
To determine which  लोगों may need खास सहायता क्युकी of उनके विज़ुअल disabilities , विभिन्न सरकारी  jurisdictions have formulated more complex definitions referred to as legal blindness .
in उत्तर अमेरिका और सबसे of यूरोपीय , विधिक दृष्टिहीनता is पारिभाषित as विज़ुअल तीक्ष्णता  ( vision ) of 20/200 ( 6/60 ) or less in the better eye with best correction possible .
This  अर्थात् कि a legally अँधा व्यक्तिगत होता have to स्टैंड इससे an ऑब्जेक्ट to देखिए it—with  corrective lenses —with the same degree of clarity as a normally sighted person could from .
In many areas , people with average acuity  जो nonetheless have a विज़ुअल फ़ील्ड of कम than 20 डिग्री ( the norm होने  180 degrees ) are also classified as being legally blind .
Approximately ten percent  of those deemed legally अँधा , by  any measure , have no vision .
The rest have some vision , from  लाइट बोध अलोन to अपेक्षाकृत  good acuity .
Low vision  is sometimes  used to describe visual acuities from 20/70 to 20/200 .
By the  10th संशोधन of the जो अंतरराष्ट्रीय सांख्यिकीय वर्गीकरण of रोगों , चोटों और कल्याणकारी of मौत , कम दृष्टि is पारिभाषित as विज़ुअल तीक्ष्णता of कम than 20/60 ( 6/18 ) , लकिन बराबर to or बेहतर  than 20/200 ( 6/60 ) , or corresponding visual field loss to less than 20 degrees , in the better eye with best possible correction .
Blindness is defined as visual acuity of less than 20/400 ( 6/120 ) ,  or सम्बन्धित विज़ुअल फ़ील्ड घाटा to कम than 10 डिग्री , in the बेहतर नजर  with best possible correction .
अँधा लोगों साथ undamaged आँखें may स्टिल पंजीकरण लाइट non-visually  for the purpose of circadian entrainment to the 24-hour light/dark cycle .
Light signals for this  purpose सफर through the retinohypothalamic ट्रैक्ट और हैं नहीं प्रभावित by ऑप्टिक तंत्रिका क्षति  beyond where the retinohypothalamic tract exits .
Earl Simmons ( born December 18 , 1970 ) ,  बेहतर ज्ञात by उसके स्टेज names dmx और अंधेरा man  X , is an American rapper and actor .
In 1999 , DMX released his best-selling  एल्बम ... और तब वहीँ थी x , जिससे प्रदर्शित the hit सिंगल `` पार्टी up  ( Up in Here ) `` .
he रै acted in films ऐसे as पेट , रोमियो जरूर  Die , Exit Wounds , Cradle 2 The Grave , and Last Hour .
In 2006 , he starred in the reality television series  , जिससे थी primarily aired on the शर्त केबल टेलीविज़न  network .
In 2003 ,  dmx प्रकाशित a किताब of उसके memoirs हकदार , e.a.r.l  . : The Autobiography of DMX .
DMX released a mixtape The Weigh In as a  prelude/promotion towards उसके एल्बम undisputed  ( 2012 ) .
DMX has sold over 30 million records  विश्वव्यापी , बनाना उसे एक of the best-selling hip-hop कलाकारों  of all time .
Professional certification , trade certification , or  पेशेवर नामांकन , प्रायः पुकारा बस प्रमाणन or योग्यता  , is a designation earned by a person to assure qualification to perform a job or task .
Not all certifications that use post-nominal letters are an  स्वीकृति of शैक्षणिक उपलब्धि , or an एजेंसी नियुक्त to safeguard the पब्लिक ब्याज .
Bugs Bunny is a funny animal cartoon character , best remembered for his starring roles in the Looney Tunes and Merrie Melodies  श्रेणी of नाट्य छोटी films उत्पादित by warner भाईs. दौरान the  Golden age of American animation .
His popularity during this era led to his  बनने a कॉरपोरेट शुभंकर of warner भाईs. entertainment  .
Bugs is an anthropomorphic gray hare or rabbit who is famous for his flippant ,  व्यक्तित्व , a सुनाया नई यॉर्क एक्सेंट , उसके portrayal as a छलिया  , and his catch phrase `` Eh ...
What  's up ,  doc ? ''
( प्रायः कहा जबकि  chewing a carrot ) .
Bugs has appeared in more films than any  अन्य कार्टून अक्षर और  is the ninth most portrayed film personality in the world .
According to his 1990 `` biography '' Bugs  बनी : 50 सालो और तभी एक धूसर हरे , बग थी born on जुलाई 27 , 1940 in ब्रुकलीन  , New York in a warren under Ebbets Field , home of the Brooklyn Dodgers .
In reality , he was brought to life by the animators and staff of Leon Schlesinger Productions ( later Warner Bros. Cartoons ) :  सहित टेक्स एवेरी , जो निर्देशित बग ' जल्दी निर्णायक छोटी a जंगली हरे ( 1940 ) ; रॉबर्ट mckimson , जो निर्मित बग ' निर्णायक  character design ; and Mel Blanc , who originated the voice of Bugs .
The mucous membranes ( or mucosae or mucosas ; singular  mucosa ) हैं linings of ज़्यादातर endodermal उत्पत्ति , covered in  epithelium , which are involved in absorption and secretion .
They line cavities that are exposed to  the बाह्य पर्यावरण और  internal organs .
They are at several places contiguous with skin : at the  नथुनों , the होठ of the मुँह , the eyelids , the कानों , the genital  area , and the anus .
The sticky ,  मोटा द्रव स्रावित by the श्लेष्मक झिल्लियों  and glands is termed mucus .
The term mucous membrane refers to  जहाँ वे हैं मिला in the देह और नहीं प्रत्येक श्लेष्मक  membrane secretes mucus .
The glans  clitoridis , glans शिश्न ( सिर of the शिश्न ) , साथ साथ the अंदर of  the foreskin and the clitoral hood , are mucous membranes .
The  urethra is भी a श्लेष्मक  membrane .
The secreted mucus  फंदा the pathogens in the देह , preventing  any further activities of diseases .
A  निपुण सार्जेंट is the सैन्य रैंक लिये a वरिष्ठ non-commissioned  officer in some armed forces .
Cake is a  रूप of ब्रैड or bread-like  food .
In its modern forms , it is  typically a मीठी baked मिठाई .
In its oldest forms , cakes were  सामान्यतः fried breads or cheesecakes , और सामान्यतः था a डिस्क आकार  .
determining whether a दिए खाना  should be classified as bread , cake , or pastry can be difficult .
Modern cake , especially layer cakes , normally contain a combination of flour ,  शुगर , अंडे , और मक्खन or आयल , साथ कुछ किस्में भी requiring द्रव ( typically मिल्क or जल ) और leavening  agents ( such as yeast or baking powder ) .
Flavorful ingredients like fruit purées , nuts , dried or candied fruit , or extracts are often added , and  numerous substitutions लिये the प्राथमिक संघटक हैं संभावित  .
Cakes are often filled with fruit preserves or dessert sauces  ( जैसे पेस्ट्री मलाई ) , आइस्ड साथ buttercream or अन्य icings , और सजा  with marzipan , piped borders or candied fruit .
Cake is often the dessert of choice for meals at  ceremonial अवसरों , विशेषकर विवाह , वर्षगांठ  , and birthdays .
There are countless cake recipes ; some are  bread-like , कुछ समृद्ध और विस्तृत , और अनेक हैं सदियां  old .
Cake making is no longer a complicated  कार्यविधि ; जबकि at एक समय considerable मजदूर गई into केक बनाना ( विशेषकर the whisking of अंडा foams ) , बेकिंग उपकरण और  directions have been simplified so that even the most amateur cook may bake a cake .
Tamara Faye LaValley Bakker Messner ( March 7 , 1942  – जुलाई 20 , 2007 ) थी an अमरीकी ईसाई सिंगर , इंजीलवादी , उद्योगों  , author , talk show host , and television personality .
She was  शादीशुदा इससे 1961 to 1992 to televangelist , और  later convicted felon , Jim Bakker .
She co-hosted with him  on the ptl क्लबों (  1976–1987 ) .
She was  a भागीदार in the 2004 ऋतु of the वास्तविकता  show The Surreal Life .
Cambria is a  गाँव in कोलंबिया काउंटी  , Wisconsin , United States .
The population was  767 at the  2010 census .
It is part of the  मैडिसन महानगर सांख्यिकीय  Area .
Public policy is the  principled मार्गदर्शिका to कार्रवाई लिया by the प्रशासनिक कार्यपालिका शाखाओं of the राज्य साथ लिहाज़ to a क्लास  of issues in a manner consistent with law and institutional customs .
In general , the foundation is the pertinent national  और substantial संवैधानिक विधि और implementing विधान ऐसे as the us संघीय  code .
Further substrates include both judicial  interpretations और regulations जिससे हैं  generally authorized by legislation .
Other scholars define it as a system of `` courses of action  , नियामक उपायों , कानून , और funding प्राथमिकताएं concerning a दिए टॉपिक promulgated  by a governmental entity or its representatives . ''
Public policy is commonly embodied `` in  constitutions , विधान अधिनियमों , और न्यायिक निर्णय  . ''
In the United States , this concept refers not only to  the परिणाम of नीतियों , लकिन अधिक broadly to the decision-making  and analysis of governmental decisions .
As an academic discipline , public policy is studied by professors and students at public policy schools of  प्रमुख विश्वविद्यालयों throughout the देश  .
The U.S. professional association of public  नीति practitioners , शोधकर्ताओं , विद्वानों , और विद्यार्थी is the  Association for Public Policy Analysis and Management .
Digestion is the  mechanical और रासायनिक विश्लेषण  of food into smaller components that are more easily absorbed into a blood stream , for instance .
Digestion is a form  of catabolism : a विश्लेषण  of large food molecules to smaller ones .
When food enters the mouth ,  पाचन of the खाना starts by the कार्रवाई of mastication , a रूप of mechanical पाचन  , and the wetting contact of saliva .
Saliva , a liquid secreted by the salivary glands , contains salivary  amylase , an एंजाइम जिससे starts the पाचन  of starch in the food .
After undergoing mastication and starch digestion , the food will be in the  रूप of a छोटी , गोलाकार slurry द्रव्यमान पुकारा a bolus .
It will then travel down the esophagus and  into the पेट by the कार्रवाई of peristalsis  .
Gastric  रस in the पेट  starts protein digestion .
Gastric juice mainly contains  हाइड्रोक्लोरिक एसिड और  pepsin .
As these two chemicals may damage the stomach wall ,  mucus is स्रावित by the पेट , providing a slimy परत कि अधिनियमों  as a shield against the damaging effects of the chemicals .
At the same  समय प्रोटीन पाचन is occurring , mechanical mixing  occurs by peristalsis , which are waves of muscular contractions that move along the stomach wall .
This allows the mass of food to  further मिक्सर साथ the digestive  enzymes .
After some time ( typically an hour or two in humans , 4–6 hours in dogs , somewhat shorter duration in  हाउस बिल्लियों ) , the resulting मोटा द्रव is पुकारा  chyme .
जब the pyloric sphincter वाल्व opens , chyme enters the duodenum जहाँ it mixes साथ digestive एंजाइमों इससे the  pancreas , and then passes through the small intestine , in which digestion continues .
When  the chyme is fully पचता  , it is absorbed into the blood .
95 % of  अवशोषण of nutrients occurs in  the small intestine .
Water and minerals are  reabsorbed वापस into the रक्त in the कोलन ( विशाल आंत ) जहाँ  the pH is slightly acidic about 5.6 ~ 6.9 .
Some  विटामिन , ऐसे as biotin और विटामिन k ( k2mk7 ) उत्पादित  by bacteria in the colon are also absorbed into the blood in the colon .
Waste material is eliminated  इससे the मलाशय दौरान शौच  .
Henry VIII ( 28 June  1491 – 28 जनवरी 1547 ) थी किंग of इंग्लैण्ड इससे 21 अप्रैल  1509 until his death .
He was lord , and later king , of Ireland , as well as continuing the nominal claim by the  अंग्रेज़ी monarchs to the किंगडम of  France .
Henry  थी the दूसरी monarch of the ट्यूडर राजवंश  , succeeding his father , Henry VII .
Besides his six marriages , Henry  viii is ज्ञात लिये उसके भूमिका in the विरह of the गिरिजाघर of  England from the Roman Catholic Church .
Henry 's struggles with Rome led to the separation of the Church of England from papal  प्राधिकार , the विच्छेद of the monasteries , और उसके अपना स्थापना  as the Supreme Head of the Church of England .
Yet he remained a  आस्तिक in कोर कैथोलिक theological शिक्षाओं  , even after his excommunication from the Roman Catholic Church .
Henry oversaw the legal union of  इंग्लैण्ड और वेल्स साथ the कानून in वेल्स अधिनियमों 1535  and 1542 .
In 1513 , the new king allied with the Holy Roman Emperor , Maximillian I , and invaded  फ़्रांस in 1513 साथ a विशाल , well-equipped फौज , लकिन हासिल  little at a considerable financial cost .
Maximillian , for his part , used the English invasion to his own ends  , और इस prejudiced इंग्लैण्ड 's क्षमता to शिकस्त the फ्रेंच  .
This foray would prove  the प्रारंभ of an obsession  for Henry , who invaded again in 1544 .
This time , Henry 's forces captured the  महत्वपूर्ण नगर of boulogne , लकिन again the पावन रोमन सम्राट , चार्ल्स v , समर्थित हेनरी तभी as long  as he needed to and England , strained by the enormous cost of the war , ransomed the city back for peace .
His contemporaries  माना हेनरी in उसके प्रधान to be an आकर्षक , शिक्षित और संपन्नता किंग , और he  has been described as `` one of the most charismatic rulers to sit on the English throne '' .
Besides  सत्ताधारी साथ निरपेक्ष शक्ति ,  he also engaged himself as an author and composer .
His desire to provide England with a male heir – which stemmed  partly इससे निजी वैनिटी और partly क्युकी he believed a बेटी होता be असमर्थ to consolidate the ट्यूडर राजवंश और the नाजुक सलाम कि existed following the  Wars of the Roses – led to the two things for which Henry is most remembered : his six marriages and the English Reformation .
Henry became  रुग्ण मोटे और उसके स्वास्थ्य suffered ,  contributing to his death in 1547 .
He is frequently characterised in his later life as  a lustful , egotistical , हर्ष , और असुरक्षित किंग  .
Bongos (  स्पेनी : bongó )  are an Afro-Cuban percussion instrument .
The drums  हैं of अलग आकार : the larger ढोल is पुकारा in स्पेनी  the hembra ( female ) and the smaller the macho ( male ) .
They  हैं membranophones , or यंत्र कि  create sound by a vibration of a stretched membrane .
Different  धार्मिक समूह शामिल अलग किताबे in उनके biblical canons , in varying आदेश , और sometimes  divide or combine books , or incorporate additional material into canonical books .
ईसाई bibles दायरा इससे the sixty-six किताबे of the प्रोटोस्टेंट canon to the eighty-one  books of the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church canon .
The Hebrew Bible , or Tanakh , contains twenty-four books  विभाजित into तीन भाग ; the पाँच किताबे of the तोरा ( `` शिक्षण '' or `` विधि '' ) , the nevi'im ( `` नबियों ''  ) , and the Ketuvim ( `` writings '' ) .
The first part of  ईसाई bibles is the बूढ़ा वसीयत , जिससे contains , at न्यूनतम  , the twenty-four books of the Hebrew Bible divided into thirty-nine books and ordered differently from the Hebrew Bible .
The Catholic  गिरिजाघर और पूर्वी ईसाई चर्च भी थाम निश्चित  deuterocanonical books and passages to be part of the Old Testament canon .
The second part is the New Testament , containing  twenty-seven किताबे ; the चार canonical gospels , अधिनियमों of the रसूलों , twenty-one  Epistles or letters and the Book of Revelation .
The Eastern Orthodox , Oriental Orthodox and Eastern Catholic churches may have  नाबालिग मतभेद  in their lists of accepted books .
The list given here for these churches is the most  समावेशी : if at तनिक एक पूर्वी गिरिजाघर स्वीकृत the  book it is included here .
The national flag of the United States of America , often simply referred to as the American flag  , consists of तेरह बराबर आड़ा धारियाँ of रेड ( शीर्ष और नीचे ) प्रत्यावर्ती साथ श्वेत , साथ a ब्लू  rectangle in the canton ( referred to specifically as the `` union '' ) bearing fifty small , white , five-pointed stars arranged in nine offset horizontal rows of six stars ( top and bottom ) alternating with rows of five stars .
The 50 stars on the flag represent the 50 states of the United States of America and the 13  धारियाँ represent the तेरह अंग्रेजों colonies कि घोषित स्वतंत्रता इससे the किंगडम of ग्रेट ब्रिटेन और became the पहला राज्य  in the Union .
Nicknames for the flag include the ``  सितारों और धारियाँ '' , `` बूढ़ा महिमा  `` , and `` The Star-Spangled Banner . ''
Dred Scott v. Sandford , , also known as the Dred Scott  निर्णय , थी a लैंडमार्क निर्णय by the u.S. परम् अदालत  .
It made  दो प्रमुख rulings  .
The first ruling was that African-Americans were not citizens  , और इसलिए था no खड़ा to मुकदमा in संघीय अदालत  .
The second ruling was that the federal government had no power to regulate  गुलामी in कोई territory acquired subsequent to the सृष्टि of the संयुक्त  States .
Given the first ruling , most scholars and many contemporary political  आंकड़े ( सहित the नेतृत्व of the then-new रिपब्लिकन पार्टी ) माना कि the दूसरी सत्ताधारी थी नहीं बाइंडिंग यही , लकिन mere  dictum .
The rationale of the Supreme  अदालत regarding the jurisdictional सत्ताधारी implied कि लोगों of अफ़्रीकी descent ( दोनो स्लेव और फ़्री  ) were not protected by the Constitution and were not U.S. citizens .
Since passage of the 14th Amendment to the U.S.  संविधान , दोनो rulings हैं superseded और no longer  valid precedent .
Nonetheless , the case  retains ऐतिहासिक significance as it is widely regarded as the worst निर्णय  ever made by the Supreme Court .
The  राय of the अदालत , लिखा by मुख्य इंसाफ  Roger B. Taney , stirred debate .
The decision  थी 7–2 , और प्रत्येक इंसाफ besides taney लिखा a पृथक  concurrence or dissent .
For the first time since Marbury  v. मैडिसन , the अदालत आयोजित an अधिनियम of कॉंग्रेस to be असंवैधानिक  .
Dred Scott , an African-American slave ,  था पूछा a संयुक्त राज्य सर्किट अदालत to पुरस्कार उसे उसके स्वतंत्रता क्युकी  he and his master had resided in a state ( Illinois ) and a territory ( Wisconsin Territory ) where slavery had been banned .
Chief Justice Roger Taney , writing for the court , held  कि स्कॉट , as a व्यक्ति of अफ़्रीकी ancestry , थी नहीं a नागरिक of the संयुक्त  States and therefore had no right to sue in federal court .
This holding was contrary to the practice of numerous states at the  समय , विशेषकर फ़्री राज्य , जहाँ फ़्री अश्वेतों किया in फैक्ट आनंद the अधिकारों of नागरिकों  , such as the right to vote and hold public office .
In what is sometimes considered mere obiter dictum , the Court went on to hold that Congress  था no प्राधिकार to prohibit गुलामी in संघीय territories क्युकी स्लेव हैं निजी प्रॉपर्टी और the पांचवां  Amendment to the Constitution protects property owners against deprivation of their property without due process of law .
In reaching this decision , Taney had hoped  to settle the growing विवाद surrounding गुलामी in  the United States , but it had the opposite effect .
The decision was fiercely debated across the country , as perhaps best exemplified by the  lincoln–douglas debates of 1858  .
Abraham Lincoln , the second-ever Republican nominee for President , was able to win the presidential election in 1860 ; the stopping of the  further विस्तार of गुलामी थी a कुंजी रिपब्लिकन  party plank .
The decision played an important role in the timing of state secession and the  सिविल युद्ध , हालांकि it is चरम to कह the निर्णय `` caused ''  the war .
The decision is acknowledged for  the influential भूमिका it निभाई in altering the नेशनल राजनैतिक लैंडस्केप : it is credited साथ शुभारंभ अब्राहम lincoln’s  national political career and ultimately allowing for his election .
Although the Supreme Court has never explicitly overruled the  dred स्कॉट मामला , the अदालत stated in the slaughter-house मामले कि at तनिक एक भाग of it था already महरूम overruled by the fourteenth amendment in 1868 , जिससे begins by stating , `` सब व्यक्तियों  born or naturalized in the United States , and subject to the jurisdiction thereof , are citizens of the United States and of the State wherein they reside . ''
To  जिससे the अदालत  noted:
The first observation we have to make on this clause is , that it puts at rest both the  सवाल जिससे we stated to have महरूम the विषय of मतभेद  of opinion .
It declares that  व्यक्तियों may be नागरिकों of the संयुक्त राज्य बगैर लिहाज़ to उनके नागरिकता of a particular राज्य , और it overturns  the Dred Scott decision by making all persons born within the United States and subject to its jurisdiction citizens of the United States .
There  हैं दर्जनों of पड़ोस  in Columbus , Ohio .
Some are hard to define , as  वे encompass विशाल क्षेत्रों विकसित at अलग  times—often with sub-neighborhoods within them .
Borders can also change based on popular understanding of the area , as well as  the whims of the निवासियों  .
This article uses data  इससे the datasourcecolumbus वेब साईट , spotcrime.com  , HelloColumbus.com , as well as the various Columbus Area Commissions to define the various areas .
Excerpts  और किनारा सूचना हैं  drawn directly from the main articles .
A biologist is a  वैज्ञानिक जो अध्ययन जीना जीवों और उनके संबंध to  their environment .
biologists शामिल in मौलिक शोध attempt  to discover underlying mechanisms that govern how organisms work .
Biologists  शामिल in लागू शोध  attempt to develop or improve medical , industrial or agricultural processes .
Martinus Willem Beijerinck , a  वनस्पतिशास्त्री और microbiologist
Base jumping  इससे a चट्टान in a wingsuit  .
BASE jumping , also sometimes written as B.A.S.E . jumping  , is an कार्यकलाप जहाँ भागीदार जम्प इससे फिक्स्ड वस्तुएँ और उपयोग a पैराशूट to  break their fall .
`` BASE '' is an acronym that stands for  चार श्रेणी of फिक्स्ड वस्तुएँ इससे जिससे एक can जम्प : इमारतें , एन्टेना , spans  ( bridges ) , and earth ( cliffs ) .
The British Shorthair is a domesticated cat whose  सुविधाएँ मेक it a लोकप्रिय नस्ल in बिल्ली shows  .
It has been the most popular breed of cat registered by the UK 's  शासी परिषद of the बिल्ली फैंसी ( gccf ) चूंकि 2001 , जब it overtook the पारसी नस्ल  .
The USA Basketball Men 's Senior  नेशनल टोली , commonly ज्ञात as the संयुक्त राज्य मेन 's नेशनल बास्केट टोली , represents the  United States of America in international men 's basketball .
The USA is the most successful team in international competition  , जीतना medals in सब सत्रह ओलम्पिक tournaments it रै डाला  , coming away with fourteen golds .
Two of its gold medal-winning squads were inducted to the Naismith Memorial  बास्केट हॉल of कीर्ति as टीमों in अगस्त 2010—the 1960 टोली , जिससे प्रदर्शित छह हॉल of famers ( 4 खिलाड़ी , 2 कोच ) , और the 1992 `` सपना टोली  '' , featuring 14 Hall of Famers ( 11 players , 3 coaches ) .
The United States is  फिलहाल क्रमित पहला in the fiba संसार rankings  .
Traditionally composed of amateur players , a 1989 rule change by  fiba अनुमत यूएसए बास्केट to फ़ील्ड टीमों साथ पेशेवर  players .
The first such team , known as the ``  सपना टोली '' , जीती the सुनहरा पदक at the 1992 गर्मियाँ ओलंपिक in बार्सिलोना , स्पेन , playing  in the final against Croatia .
साथ the परिचय of पेशेवर , the टोली थी समर्थ to चिंगारी  a second run of dominance after capturing only a bronze medal in 1988 .
A team of professional players competed at the 1994  fiba संसार चैंपियनशिप , finishing  first .
In 1996 , 2000  , 2008 , और 2012 the यूएसए again  captured gold medals .
Facing increased competition , the USA failed to win a medal  at the 2002 fiba संसार चैंपियनशिप , finishing  sixth .
The 2004 Summer Olympic team  खोया तीन खेल on इसके रास्ता to a कांस्य पदक , a रिकार्ड कि represented अधिक नुकसान in a सिंगल साल than the देश  's Olympic teams had suffered in all previous Olympiads combined .
Determined to  put an समाप्त to ये असफलताओं , यूएसए बास्केट initiated a long-term प्रोजेक्ट  aimed at creating better , more cohesive teams .
The USA won its first seven games at the 2006 FIBA World Championship in Japan before losing  विरूद्ध यूनानियों in the semi-finals , समाप्ति the प्रतियोगिता  with the bronze medal .
The  यूएसए जीती सुनहरा दो सालो बाद , हालांकि ,  at the 2008 Summer Olympics with a dominant performance .
This success was followed up at the 2010 FIBA World Championship , where despite  क्षेत्ररक्षण a रोस्टर featuring no खिलाड़ी इससे the 2008 ओलम्पिक टोली , the यूएसए किया नहीं खोना a सिंगल खेल en रूट  to defeating host Turkey for the gold medal .
The USA continued this streak of dominance by  going अपराजित और capturing सुनहरा एकबार अधिक  at the 2012 Summer Olympics .
the स्टीलर्स सुपर  Bowl XL ring
Joe  theismann 's सुपर कटोरी  Ring ( right )
The Super Bowl ring is an award in the  नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग दिए to the विजेता of the लीग 's सालाना संसार चैंपियनशिप  game , the Super Bowl .
Since only  एक विंस लोम्बार्डी ट्रॉफी is awarded to the टोली ( स्वामित्व ) itself , the सुपर  Bowl ring offers a collectible memento for the actual players and team members to keep for themselves to symbolize the victory .
Image showing the six most common  speleothems साथ लेबल्स .
to दृश्य  labels .
The  डायन 's उंगली in  the Carlsbad Caverns
A stalagmite ( or ; from the  यूनानी σταλαγμίτης - stalagmitês , इससे σταλαγμίας - stalagmias , `` छोड़ने , trickling '' ) is a प्रकार of speleothem कि उदय इससे the मंजिल  of a limestone cave due to the dripping of mineralized solutions and the deposition of calcium carbonate .
This stalagmite formation occurs only under  निश्चित ph शर्तें भीतर the भूमिगत cavern  .
The corresponding formation on the  छत of a गुफा is ज्ञात as a stalactite  .
If these  formations grow साथ , the परिणाम  is known as a column .
The Hall of Giants  in the carlsbad caverns
Stalagmites should normally not be touched , since the rock buildup is  formed by खनिज precipitating आउट of the जल समाधान onto the बूढ़ा सतह ; स्किन oils can alter the सतह जहाँ the खनिज  water will cling , thus affecting the growth of the formation .
Oils and dirt from human  सम्पर्क can भी दाग the गठन और बदलें इसके रंग  permanently .
Similar  structures can भी रूप in लावा tubes , संबद्ध  with some types of lavacicles , although the mechanism of formation is very different .
Stalactites and stalagmites can also form on concrete ceilings and floors , although they form much more  rapidly वहीँ than in the प्राकृतिक गुफा पर्यावरण  .
The largest stalagmite in the world is high and is located  in the गुफा of cueva मार्टिन infierno  , Cuba .
In the Zagros Mountains of south Iran , approximately from the ancient city  of bishapur , in the shapur गुफा on the चौथी of पाँच बरामदा स्टैंड the 3rd सदी ce प्रतिमा of shapur  I , second ruler of the Sassanid Empire .
The  प्रतिमा , carved इससे एक  stalagmite , is nearly high .
कैसा i मिले अपना माँ is an अमरीकी sitcom  that premiered on CBS on September 19 , 2005 .
The show  थी निर्मित by क्रेग थामस  and Carter Bays .
How I Met Your Mother is framed by the year 2030 , when Ted Mosby ( voiced by Bob Saget  ) gathers उसके बेटी ( lyndsy fonseca ) और बेटे ( दाउद henrie )  to tell them the story of how he met their mother .
we फ्लैशबैक to जहाँ it begins in 2005 साथ टेड mosby ( जोश radnor ) as a सिंगल , 27-year-old वास्तु जीना साथ उसके दो बेहतरीन मित्रों इससे wesleyan विश्वविद्यालयों , मार्शल  Eriksen ( Jason Segel ) , a law student , and Lily Aldrin ( Alyson Hannigan ) , a kindergarten teacher , who have been dating for almost nine years when Marshall proposes .
Their  सगाई कल्याणकारी टेड to सोचो परिचय ढूंढना उसके अपना आत्मा mate ,  much to the disgust of his friend Barney Stinson ( Neil Patrick Harris ) , a womanizer with an unnamed corporate job .
And thus , Ted begins his search for his perfect mate , and meets Robin Scherbatsky  ( कोबी स्मल्डर्स ) , जिसको he भी befriends .
the 100th एपीसोड of कैसा i मिले अपना माँ  aired on January 11 , 2010 .
On December 21 , 2012 , the  श्रेणी थी नवीनीकृत लिये a नवीं  season .
On January  30 , 2013 , it थी घोषित कि ऋतु 9 होगा be  its final season .
Gringo ( , , ) is a slang Spanish and Portuguese word  प्रयुक्त in ibero-america , to denote विदेशियों , प्रायः इससे  the United States .
The term can be applied to someone who is  दरअसल a foreigner , or it can denote a दमदार संघ or  assimilation into foreign ( particularly US ) society and culture .
In Spanish it does  नहीं have a ऋणात्मक connotation  .
Roger Axtell  , a सफर तहज़ीब विशेषज्ञ , टीप कि `` [ t ] he शब्द gringo is नहीं  necessarily a bad word .
It is slang but is  अपमानजनक तभी in इसके उपयोग और कॉन्टेक्स्ट  . ''
The  शब्द थी प्रयुक्त in स्पेन long पहले it crossed the अटलांटिक to denote  foreign , non-native speakers of Spanish .
The great white shark ,  carcharodon carcharias , भी ज्ञात as the ग्रेट श्वेत , श्वेत सूचक , श्वेत शार्क , or श्वेत मौत , is a प्रजाति of विशाल  lamniform shark which can be found in the coastal surface waters of all the major oceans .
The great white  शार्क is मुख्यतः ज्ञात लिये  its size , with the largest individuals known to have approached or exceeded in length , and in weight .
This shark reaches  इसके परिपक्वता around 15 सालो of आयु और can have a जीवन  span of over 30 years .
The great  श्वेत शार्क is arguably the संसार 's largest ज्ञात extant macropredatory  fish , and is one of the primary predators of marine mammals .
It is also known to prey upon a variety  of अन्य समुद्री पशु , सहित मछली और seabirds  .
It is the only known surviving species of  इसके genus carcharodon , और is क्रमित पहला in  having the most attacks on humans .
The IUCN list the great white shark as a vulnerable species  , जबकि it is शामिल in परिशिष्ट  II of CITES .
The bestselling novel Jaws by Peter Benchley and the subsequent blockbuster film by Steven Spielberg depicted the  ग्रेट श्वेत शार्क as a `` ferocious man भक्षक ``  .
in वास्तविकता , इंसानो हैं नहीं the पसन्दीदा  prey of the great white shark .
The  संयुक्त राज्य हथियारबंद शक्तियां हैं the सैन्य  forces of the United States of America .
They consist of the Army , Navy ,  समुद्री corps , एयर फ़ोर्स , और coast  Guard .
The U.S. has a  दमदार परंपरा of civilian कंट्रोल  of the military .
The President is  the सैन्य 's overall सिर , और helps रूप सैन्य नीति साथ the u.S. विभाग of रक्षा  ( DoD ) , a federal executive department , acting as the principal organ by which military policy is carried out .
The DoD is headed  by the सचिव of रक्षा  , who is a civilian and Cabinet member .
The Defense Secretary  is दूसरी in the सैन्य 's कड़ी of कमांड , बस नीचे the अध्यक्ष , और serves as the  principal assistant to the President in all DoD-related matters .
To coordinate  सैन्य कार्रवाई साथ कूटनीति , the अध्यक्ष रै an सलाहकार नेशनल  Security Council headed by a National Security Advisor .
Both the President and  सचिव of रक्षा हैं advised by a seven-member संयुक्त chiefs of  Staff , which includes the head of each of the Defense Department 's service branches as well as the chief of the National Guard Bureau .
Leadership is provided by  the अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त chiefs of स्टाफ और the वाइस अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त  Chiefs of Staff .
The Commandant of  the coast गार्ड is नहीं a सदस्य of the  Joint Chiefs of Staff .
All of the branches work together during operations and joint  मिशन , अंतर्गत the एकीकृत combatant कमांड , अंतर्गत the प्राधिकार of the सचिव of रक्षा साथ  the exception of the Coast Guard .
The Coast Guard falls under the administration of the Department of  मातृभूमि सुरक्षा और receives इसके operational आदेश इससे the  Secretary of Homeland Security .
The Coast Guard may be transferred to the Department of the Navy  by the अध्यक्ष or कॉंग्रेस दौरान a  time of war .
All five armed services are  among the सात uniformed सेवाएं of the संयुक्त राज्य ; the अन्य हैं  the U.S. Public Health Service Commissioned Corps and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Commissioned Corps .
From  the समय of इसके inception , the सैन्य निभाई  a decisive role in the history of the United States .
A sense of national unity and identity was forged as a result of victory  in the पहला barbary युद्ध और the दूसरी barbary युद्ध  .
Even so ,  the संस्थापकों यहूद संदिग्ध of a स्थाई सैन्य फ़ोर्स और नहीं जबतक the outbreak of संसार  War II did a large standing army become officially established .
The National Security Act of 1947 , adopted following World War II and during the Cold War 's onset  , निर्मित the आधुनिक u.S. सैन्य फ्रेमवर्क ; the अधिनियम मिलाया previously cabinet-level विभाग of युद्ध और the विभाग of the नेवी into the नेशनल सैन्य स्थापना ( renamed  the Department of Defense in 1949 ) , headed by the Secretary of Defense ; and created the Department of the Air Force and National Security Council .
The U.S.  सैन्य is एक of the largest militaries  in terms of number of personnel .
It  draws इसके जनशक्ति इससे a विशाल पूल of सशुल्क स्वयंसेवक ; हालांकि conscription  has been used in the past in various times of both war and peace , it has not been used since 1972 .
As of 2013 , the U.S. spends  परिचय $ 554.2 अरब annually to निधि इसके सैन्य शक्तियां , और appropriates  approximately $ 88.5 billion to fund Overseas Contingency Operations .
put साथ , the u.S. constitutes roughly 43  percent of the world 's military expenditures .
The  u.S. हथियारबंद शक्तियां as a पूरे possess विशाल quantities of उन्नत और शक्तिशाली  equipment , along with widespread placement of forces around the world , giving them significant capabilities in both defense and power projection .
स्वतंत्रता of वाक is the राजनैतिक सही to communicate  one 's opinions and ideas using one 's body and property to anyone who is willing to receive them .
The term freedom of expression is sometimes used synonymously , but includes any act of seeking ,  receiving और imparting सूचना or विचार , regardless of  the medium used .
In practice , the right to freedom of speech  is नहीं निरपेक्ष in कोई देश और the सही is commonly विषय to सीमाएं , as साथ मानहानि , बदनामी , obscenity , राजद्रोह ( सहित , लिये  example inciting ethnic hatred ) , copyright violation , revelation of information that is classified or otherwise .
The right to freedom of expression is recognized as a human  सही अंतर्गत आलेख 19 of the सार्वभौमिक घोषणा of इंसान अधिकारों और पहचाना in अंतरराष्ट्रीय इंसान अधिकारों  law in the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights ( ICCPR ) .
Article 19 of the ICCPR states that `` [ e ] veryone shall have the right to hold opinions without interference '' and `` everyone shall have the right to freedom of expression ; this right  shall शामिल स्वतंत्रता to तलाश , प्राप्त और impart सूचना और विचार of सब kinds , regardless of frontiers , either orally , in लिखने or in छपाई , in the रूप of आर्ट , or through  any other media of his choice '' .
Article 19 goes on to say that the exercise of these rights carries `` special duties and responsibilities `` and may `` therefore be subject to  निश्चित प्रतिबंध '' जब जरुरी `` [ f ] or आदर of the अधिकारों or प्रतिष्ठा of अन्य '' or `` [ f ] or the सुरक्षा of नेशनल सुरक्षा or of पब्लिक अनुक्रम ( अनुक्रम पब्लिक )  , or of public health or morals '' .
Freedom  of वाक may be legally curtailed in कुछ धार्मिक  legal systems and in secular jurisdictions where it is found to cause religious offense , such as the British Racial and Religious Hatred Act 2006 .
the बिग बंग  Theory logo .
The Big Bang Theory is an American comedy television series created  और कार्यपालिका उत्पादित by चक lorre और विधेयक prady  .
Like the name of the series itself , with the exception of the first episode— '' Pilot '' —episode titles of The Big Bang Theory always start with ``  the '' और resemble the नाम of a वैज्ञानिक principle , सिद्धान्त or प्रयोग , whimsically referencing a प्लाट पाइंट or quirk  .
, 133 एपीसोड  have aired .
The Big  बंग सिद्धान्त रै महरूम नवीनीकृत  for a seventh season .
Dwight David `` Ike '' Eisenhower ( pronounced , ; October 14 ,  1890 – कूच 28 , 1969 ) थी the 34th अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त  States from 1953 until 1961 .
He had previously been a  five-star सामान्य in the संयुक्त राज्य फौज दौरान संसार युद्ध ii और परोसा as परम् कमांडर of the अलाइड शक्तियां in यूरोपीय ; he था जिम्मेदारी लिये नियोजन और supervising the आक्रमण of उत्तर अफ़्रीकी in आपरेशन  Torch in 1942–43 and the successful invasion of France and Germany in 1944–45 from the Western Front .
In  1951 , he became the पहला  supreme commander of NATO .
Eisenhower was of Pennsylvania Dutch ancestry and  थी reared in a विशाल परिवार in कान्सास by अभिभावक साथ  a robust work ethic and religious background .
As one of six sons  , he थी conditioned by a प्रतिस्पर्धी  atmosphere which instilled self-reliance .
He attended and  ग्रैजुएट इससे वेस्ट पाइंट और बाद शादीशुदा और था  two sons .
After World War II , Eisenhower served as Army  मुख्य of स्टाफ अंतर्गत अध्यक्ष हैरी S. ट्रूमैन , तब assumed the पोस्ट of अध्यक्ष  at Columbia University .
Eisenhower entered the 1952 presidential race as a Republican to counter the non-interventionism of Senator  रॉबर्ट A. taft और to crusade विरूद्ध `` साम्यवादी , कोरियाई और भ्रष्टाचार  '' .
He won by a landslide ,  defeating डेमोक्रेट adlai stevenson और समाप्ति दो दशकों  of the New Deal Coalition .
In the first  साल of उसके प्रेसिडेंसी , आइज़नहावर अपदस्थ the नेता of इरान in the 1953  Iranian coup d'état and used nuclear threats to conclude the Korean War with China .
His New Look policy of nuclear deterrence gave priority to inexpensive nuclear  हथियार जबकि reducing the funding लिये conventional सैन्य शक्तियां ; the लक्ष्य थी to रखना दबाव on the सोवियत संघ  and reduce federal deficits .
In 1954 , Eisenhower first articulated the domino theory in his description of the  threat प्रस्तुत by the स्प्रेड of साम्यवादी  .
The Congress agreed to his request in 1955 for the Formosa Resolution , which enabled him to  prevent चाइनीज कम्युनिस्ट आक्रामकता विरूद्ध चाइनीज राष्ट्रवादियों और स्थापित the u.S. नीति of defending  Taiwan .
When the Soviets launched  sputnik in 1957 , he था to खेल catch-up  in the space race .
Eisenhower forced Israel , the UK ,  और फ़्रांस to समाप्त उनके आक्रमण of मिश्र दौरान  the Suez Crisis of 1956 .
In 1958 , he sent 15,000 US  सैनिकों to लेबनान to prevent the pro-western सरकारी  from falling to a Nasser -inspired revolution .
निकट the समाप्त of उसके पद , उसके प्रयत्न to नियत up a  summit meeting with the Soviets collapsed because of the U-2 incident .
On the domestic front , he  covertly opposed जोसेफ मैकार्थी और contributed to the समाप्त of mccarthyism by खुलकर invoking  the modern expanded version of executive privilege .
he वरना बाएँ सबसे राजनैतिक कार्यकलाप  to his Vice President , Richard Nixon .
He was a moderate  रूढ़िवादी जो जारी नई सौदे एजेंसियों और  expanded Social Security .
Among his enduring innovations , he launched the Interstate Highway System ; the Defense Advanced Research  प्रोजेक्ट एजेंसी ( darpa ) , जिससे led to the अंतरजाल , among अनेक invaluable आउटपुट ; the नेशनल aeronautics और स्पेस प्रशासन ( नासा ) , ड्राइविंग शांतिपूर्ण डिस्कवरी in स्पेस ; the स्थापना of दमदार विज्ञान शिक्षा via the नेशनल रक्षा शिक्षा अधिनियम ;  and encouraging peaceful use of nuclear power via amendments to the Atomic Energy Act .
In social policy , he sent federal troops to Little Rock ,  अरकंसास , लिये the पहला समय चूंकि पुनर्निर्माण to  enforce federal court orders to desegregate public schools .
He also signed civil rights  विधान in 1957 और 1960 to protect the सही to  vote .
He implemented desegregation of the armed forces in two years and  बना पाँच नियुक्ति to the परम् अदालत  .
He was the first term-limited  अध्यक्ष in accordance साथ the 22nd amendment  .
आइज़नहावर 's दो शर्तें यहूद शांतिपूर्ण ones लिये the सबसे भाग और देखी considerable आर्थिक समृद्धि  except for a sharp recession in 1958–59 .
Eisenhower is often  क्रमित अत्यधिक among the u.S.  Presidents .
Air Force One is the official  एयर ट्रैफ़िक कंट्रोल कॉल चिह्न of a संयुक्त राज्य एयर फ़ोर्स  aircraft carrying the President of the United States .
In common  parlance the पद refers to those एयर फ़ोर्स वायुयान specifically designed , निर्मित  , and used for the purpose of transporting the president .
The  अध्यक्षीय वायुयान is a prominent  symbol of the American presidency and its power .
The idea of designating specific military aircraft to transport the President arose in 1943 , when officials of the United States Army Air Forces – the predecessor to the U.S. Air  फ़ोर्स – became चिंतित साथ relying on वाणिज्यिक एयरलाइंस to हस्तांतरण  the President .
A C-87 Liberator Express was reconfigured for use  as a अध्यक्षीय हस्तांतरण ; however , it थी अस्वीकृत by the रहस्य सेवा amid चिंताएं  over the aircraft 's safety record .
A C-54 Skymaster  थी तब परिवर्तित लिये अध्यक्षीय उपयोग ; इस वायुयान , उतावले the पवित्र गाय , transported अध्यक्ष  Franklin D. Roosevelt to the Yalta Conference in February 1945 , and was subsequently used for another two years by President Harry S. Truman .
The `` Air Force One '' call sign was  निर्मित बाद a 1953 घटना दौरान जिससे a उड़ान carrying अध्यक्ष ड्वाइट D. आइज़नहावर डाला the वही  airspace as a commercial airline flight using the same call sign .
Several aircraft have been  प्रयुक्त as एयर फ़ोर्स एक चूंकि the सृष्टि of the अध्यक्षीय बेड़े , सहित दो बोइंग 707s introduced in the 1960s और 1970s , क्रमशः  ; since 1990 , the presidential fleet has consisted of two Boeing VC-25As – specifically configured , highly customized Boeing 747-200B series aircraft .
The Air Force is looking into  replacing the दो vc-25 वायुयान साथ तीन बदलना वायुयान शुरूआत in  2017 .
A wedding anniversary is the  वर्षगांठ of the तिथि  a wedding took place .
Traditional names exist for most of them : for instance , 50  सालो of विवाह is पुकारा a `` सुनहरी विवाह वर्षगांठ '' or बस  a `` golden anniversary '' .
A scanner with  duplexing स्वचालित दस्तावेज़ फीडर  .
In multifunction or all-in-one printers , fax machines , photocopiers and scanners , an automatic document feeder or ADF is a feature which takes  अनेक पृष्ठों और फ़ीड्स the पेपर एक पेज at a समय into a स्कैनर or कॉपियर , allowing the उपयोक्ता to स्कैन , और thereby नक़ल , छपाई , or फैक्स , multiple-page दस्तावेज़ बगैर having to हस्तचालित बदलें  each page .
Most copiers allow scanning on the  फ्लैटबेड or platen ( the `` कांच '' ) or  through a document feeder .
The vast majority of fax  मशीने have an adf , allowing the unattended  sending of multi-page faxes .
Due to the ubiquity of ADF in fax machines , some  फैक्स यंत्र स्वामी उपयोग the फैक्स यंत्र  as a scanner , faxing multi-page documents to themselves .
Document  feeders हैं वर्णित by गति , in पृष्ठों प्रति मिनट  or ppm , and capacity , usually in a range from 10 sheets to 200 .
There are two kinds of document feeders capable of two-sided ( duplex ) scanning : a reversing  स्वचालित दस्तावेज़ फीडर or radf scans एक पक्ष of a पेज , तब flips  it and scans the other side .
A duplexing automatic  दस्तावेज़ फीडर or dadf scans दोनो पहलू  in one pass .
The advantage  of the dadf is तेज़ गति लिये two-sided  originals .
RADFs  और dadfs हैं रेटेड in बिंब प्रति मिनट ( ipm  ) , the number of sides they can scan each minute .
Fair Park is a recreational and  शैक्षणिक जटिल स्तिथ in डलास  , Texas ( USA ) .
The complex is registered as a Dallas Landmark , National Historic Landmark and is home  to नौ संग्रहालय , छह प्रदर्शन सुविधाएं , a लैगून , और the largest फेरिस व्हील in उत्तर अमेरिका  .
Many of the  इमारतें on the जटिल यहूद constructed लिये the टेक्सास centennial exposition in  1936 which drew over six million visitors .
Most of the buildings built for the exposition still  जीवित और it is पहचाना as a significant उदाहरण  of Art Deco architecture .
Fair Park has been designated a Great Place in  अमेरिका by the अमरीकी नियोजन संघ  .
The  अमरीकी नियोजन संघ ( apa ) “is an स्वतंत्र , not-for-profit शैक्षणिक संगठन  that provides leadership in the development of vital communities.”
The  ग्रेट स्थान in अमरीकी कार्यक्रम helps to celebrate  areas with “exemplary character , quality , and planning.”
Being designated as a  ग्रेट प्लेस in अमेरिका , मेला पार्क थी एक  of only ten cities chosen in 2011 .
San Jose ( ; Spanish : St. Joseph ) is the third-largest city  in कैलिफ़ोर्निया , the tenth-largest in the u.S. , और the काउंटी सीट of सांता क्लारा काउंटी जिससे is  located at the southern end of San Francisco Bay .
San Jose is the largest city within Silicon Valley , which is a major component of the greater San Francisco Bay Area , a region of 8.4  लाख लोगों और the पांचवां largest महानगर क्षेत्रफल (  CSA ) in the United States .
It is the largest city in  उत्तरी कैलिफ़ोर्निया  .
San Jose was founded on November 29 , 1777 , as El  pueblo de सैन जोस de guadalupe , the पहला civilian कस्बा in the स्पेनी उपनिवेश of नुएवा  California , which later became Alta California .
The city served as a  खेती जातियाँ to support स्पेनी सैन्य संस्थापना  at San Francisco and Monterey .
When California gained statehood in  1850 , सैन जोस परोसा as इसके पहला  capital .
बाद अधिक than 150 सालो as a छोटी खेती नगर , सैन जोस और the surrounding सांता  Clara Valley became the last ( and largest ) contiguous area of undeveloped land surrounding the San Francisco Bay .
San Jose  अनुभवी increased माँग लिये आवास इससे  soldiers and veterans returning from World War II .
San Jose then continued its  आक्रामक विस्तार दौरान the 1950s और 1960s by  annexing more land area .
The rapid growth of the high-technology and electronics  उद्योग further त्वरित the परिवर्तन इससे an agricultural बीच , to an urbanized महानगर  area .
By the 1990s , San Jose 's location within the booming local  प्रौद्योगिकी उद्योग अर्जित the नगर इसके उपनाम , पूंजी of  Silicon Valley .
San Jose now  maintains वैश्विक नगर औकात और is the largest नगर in the सैन फ्रांसिस्को खाड़ी क्षेत्रफल in शर्तें  of population , land area , and industrial development .
The U.S.  जनसांख्यिकी ब्यूरो reported the जनसांख्यिकी of the नगर to be  945,942 as of the 2010 Census .
As of April  2013 , the अनुमानित जनसांख्यिकी  of San Jose was 984,000 .
San Jose , along with the Santa Clara Valley , experienced about half a century of  spectacular suburban sprawl , साथ विशेषताएँ of तीव्र शहरी समान to the  Los Angeles area of Southern California .
The city has  लिया definite कदम to avoid बनने  `` L.A. North '' .
However , the sprawl in San Jose is worse than in Los Angeles by measures  ऐसे as जनसांख्यिकी घनत्व और पब्लिक पारगमन सुरक्षा , निवेश  , and ridership .
Europe  चित्रित by antwerp cartographer  Abraham Ortelius in 1595
The history of Europe covers the people inhabiting the European continent since it was first populated in prehistoric  टाइम्स to उपस्थित , साथ the पहला होमो sapiens arriving between 45,000 और 25,000  BC .
The earliest  settlers to प्रागैतिहासिक यूरोपीय आए  during the paleolithic era .
The arrival  of कृषि around 7000  BC ushered in the neolithic age .
Neolithic Europe lasted for 4000 years ,  अतिव्यापी साथ metal-using संस्कृतियों कि धीरे स्प्रेड throughout  the continent .
Technological advances  दौरान the प्रागैतिहासिक आयु tended to arrive इससे the  Middle East , spreading gradually to the northwest .
Some of the best-known civilizations of prehistoric  यूरोपीय यहूद मिनोआई और माइसीनियाई , जिससे flourished दौरान the कांस्य आयु जबतक वे collapsed  in a short period of time around 1200 BC .
The period known as  शास्त्रीय प्राचीनता began साथ the वृद्धि of the city-states of  Ancient Greece .
Greek influence reached its zenith under the  expansive साम्राज्य of सिकंदर the ग्रेट , spreading throughout  Asia .
Northern  और पश्चिमी यूरोपीय यहूद वर्चस्व by the la tène  culture , a precursor to the Celts .
Rome , a small city-state traditionally founded in 753 BC , would grow to become the Roman  गणतंत्र in 509 bc और होता सफल यूनानी संस्कृति as the प्रबल भूमध्यसागरीय  civilization .
The events of the rule of Julius Caesar  led to reorganization of the गणतंत्र  into the Roman Empire .
The empire was  बाद विभाजित by the सम्राट diocletian into  the Western and Eastern empires .
During the later years of the Roman Empire , the Germanic peoples  of उत्तरी यूरोपीय grew in शक्ति और दोहराया हमले led to the पतन of the पश्चिमी रोमन साम्राज्य in ad 476 , a तिथि जिससे traditionally  marks the end of the classical period and the start of the Middle Ages .
During the Middle Ages , the Eastern  रोमन साम्राज्य बच , हालांकि आधुनिक इतिहासकारों refer  to this state as the Byzantine Empire .
In Western Europe , Germanic peoples moved into positions of power in the remnants of the former Western Roman  साम्राज्य और स्थापित kingdoms और empires of उनके  own .
Of all of the Germanic peoples ,  the franks होता वृद्धि to a स्थिति of आधिपत्य over पश्चिमी यूरोपीय , the frankish साम्राज्य  reaching its peak under Charlemagne around AD 800 .
Francia was divided into several parts ; West Francia would evolve into the Kingdom of  फ़्रांस , जबकि ईस्ट francia होता evolve into the पावन रोमन साम्राज्य , a precursor to आधुनिक जर्मनी .
the अंग्रेजों isles यहूद the  site of several large-scale migrations .
Native Celtic peoples  था महरूम अधिकारहीन दौरान the काल of रोमन ब्रिटेन , और जब the romans abandoned the अंग्रेजों isles दौरान the 400s , लहरें of germanic anglo-saxons  migrated to southern Britain and established a series of petty kingdoms in what would eventually develop into the Kingdom of England by AD 927 .
During this  काल , the किंगडम of कैंडल और किंगडम  of Hungary ( 1000–1945 ) were organized as well .
The  viking आयु , a काल of migrations of scandinavian peoples , वर्चस्व the  period from the late 700s to the middle 1000s .
Chief among the Viking states was the Empire of Cnut the  ग्रेट , a डैनिश नेता जो होता become  king of England , Denmark , and Norway .
The Normans , a Viking people who settled in Northern France and founded the Duchy of  normandy , होता have a significant प्रभाव on अनेक भाग of यूरोपीय  , from the Norman conquest of England to Southern Italy and Sicily .
Another Scandinavian people , the Rus ' people , would go on to found  kievan rus ' , an जल्दी राज्य जिससे थी a precursor  for the modern country of Russia .
As  the viking आयु खींचा to a बंद , the काल ज्ञात as the क्रूसेड , a श्रेणी of religiously-motivated  military expeditions originally intended to bring the Levant back into Christian rule , began .
Several  जेहादी राज्य यहूद संस्थापित in the पूर्वी  Mediterranean .
ये यहूद सब short-lived  .
The Crusaders would have  a profound प्रभाव on अनेक  parts of Europe .
Their Sack of  कुस्तुंतुनिया in 1204 brought an abrupt समाप्त  to the Byzantine Empire .
Extinct dog breeds  is a संकलन of श्वान breeds कि have become  extinct .
Wii Speak is a  माइक्रोफोन accessory लिये निन्टेंडो  's Wii video game console .
Connected to the console via USB , the device can be placed  निकट the वीडियो प्रदर्शक , allowing आवाज़ गपशप  to be conducted with the entire room .
The device features an LED to  indicate जब the माइक्रोफोन is क्रियाशील  .
Wii Speak  थी घोषित at निन्टेंडो  's 2008 E3 media briefing .
It was released separately and bundled  साथ एनिमल क्रासिंग : नगर लोक on नवम्बर 16 , 2008 , in उत्तर  America , and was released on December 5 , 2008 , in Europe .
The Wii Speak accessory is  succeeded by the अंतःस्थापित माइक्रोफोन  on the Wii U 's GamePad controller .
निसान बुद्धिमान  Key®
A smart key is an electronic access and  प्राधिकरण प्रणाली जिससे is उपलब्धियाँ as an विकल्प or मानक  in several cars .
It was first developed by Siemens in the mid-1990s and  introduced by mercedes-benz अंतर्गत the नाम `` keyless go '' in 1998 on the w220 s-class following इसके डिज़ाइन पेटेंट  filed by Daimler-Benz on May 17 , 1997 .
Univisión ( ) is a  spanish-language टेलीविज़न संजाल in the संयुक्त  States .
The network is primarily dedicated  लिये लैटिन अमरीकी परिवारों जो reside in the संयुक्त  States .
It has the largest audience of Spanish-language  टेलीविज़न दर्शक in the संसार according to nielsen दरजा  .
Randy Falco , (  सीईओ as of जून 29 , 2011 ) coo , रै महरूम in चार्ज of  the company since the departure of Univision Communications president and CEO Joe Uva in April 2010 .
In recent years the network has reached parity with the U.S. 's five major English-language television networks , and is often a strong fifth , outranking The CW , with some fourth-place weekly placings ,  और as of 2012 , भी पहला प्लेस rankings लिये व्यक्तिगत कार्यक्रम over सब पाँच अंग्रेज़ी संजाल due to the संजाल 's सतत अनुसूची of नई telenovelas  all 52 weeks of the year .
Univisión is headquartered in New York ,  और रै इसके प्रमुख studios , उत्पादन सुविधाएं , और परिचालन in doral , फ्लोरिडा  , a suburb of Miami .
In 2009 , another television studio was announced  , univision studios , to be निर्मित in doral  .
Univision is available on cable and satellite in most of the country , with local stations in over  50 बाज़ार साथ विशाल हिस्पैनिक और लातीनी populations और a नेशनल केबल संजाल फीड वितरित in बाज़ार बगैर either  the availability or the demand for a locally-based station .
Most of these stations air full local news and other local programming in addition to network shows , and in major markets such as Los Angeles , New York , and Miami the local newscasts  carried by the संजाल 's owned-and-operated स्टेशन ( o & o ) स्टेशन हैं बराबर प्रतिस्पर्धी साथ उनके english-language  counterparts ratings-wise .
Univisión was acquired on March 29 , 2007 by a consortium led by Haim Saban 's  saban पूंजी समूह ( जो था previously स्वामित्व the एंटिटी saban entertainment ) , tpg पूंजी , l.P. , विधाता इक्विटी साझेदार , मैडिसन dearborn साझेदार , और थामस H. ली साझेदार लिये $ 13.7 अरब or $ 36.25 प्रति share प्लस $ 1.4 अरब  in acquired debt .
The  buyout बाएँ the कम्पनी साथ  a debt level of twelve times its annual cash flow , which was twice the norm in buyouts done over the previous two years .
Artist 's  धारणा of a आदिग्रह  disk
The formation and of the Solar System is estimated to have begun 4.6 billion  सालो पहले साथ the गुरुत्वाकर्षक पतन of a छोटी भाग of a दानव  molecular cloud .
Most of the collapsing  द्रव्यमान एकत्रित in the केन्द्र , forming the सूर्य , जबकि the बाकी flattened into a आदिग्रह डिस्क  out of which the planets , moons , asteroids , and other small Solar System bodies formed .
This widely  स्वीकृत मॉडल , ज्ञात as the nebular परिकल्पना , थी  first developed in the 18th century by Emanuel Swedenborg , Immanuel Kant , and Pierre-Simon Laplace .
Its subsequent  विकास रै interwoven a किस्में of वैज्ञानिक disciplines  including astronomy , physics , geology , and planetary science .
Since the dawn of the space age in the 1950s and the discovery of extrasolar planets  in the 1990s , the मॉडल रै महरूम दोनो challenged और परिष्कृत to खाता  for new observations .
The  सौर प्रणाली रै विकसित considerably  since its initial formation .
Many moons have formed from circling discs of gas and dust around their parent planets , while other moons are thought to have formed  independently और बाद महरूम captured by उनके ग्रह  .
Still others , as the Earth  's चंद्रमा , may be the परिणाम of दानव टक्करों  .
Collisions between bodies  have occurred continually up to the उपस्थित दिन और have महरूम सेंट्रल to  the evolution of the Solar System .
The positions of  the ग्रह प्रायः shifted  , and planets have switched places .
This planetary migration  is अभी विचार to have महरूम जिम्मेदार लिये much of the सौर  System 's early evolution .
In roughly 5 billion years , the Sun will cool and expand  outward अनेक टाइम्स इसके वर्तमान व्यास ( बनने a रेड दानव ) , पहले ढलाई बंद इसके बाहरी परतों as a ग्रहीय  nebula and leaving behind a stellar remnant known as a white dwarf .
In the far distant future , the  गम्भीरता of गुजर सितारों होगा धीरे reduce  the Sun 's retinue of planets .
Some planets will  be नष्ट , अन्य ejected into अंतरतारकीय  space .
Ultimately , over the  कोर्स of tens of अरबों of सालो , it is संभावित कि the सूर्य होगा  be left with none of the original bodies in orbit around it .
The Trial ( Kafka 's original German title : , later as , and ) is a novel  लिखा by फ्रांज काफ्का in 1914 और 1915 लकिन नहीं  published until 1925 .
One of Kafka 's best-known works , it tells the story of a man arrested and prosecuted by a remote , inaccessible authority  , साथ the प्रकृति of उसके अपराधों नाज़िल to neither उसे nor the रीडर  .
Like Kafka 's other novels , The Trial was never completed  , हालांकि it करता शामिल a अध्याय जिससे brings the  story to an end .
Because of this there are certain inconsistencies which exist within the  अनोखा , ऐसे as असमानताओं in समय in जोड to अन्य discontinuities in  narration .
After Kafka 's death in 1924 his friend and literary  executor अधिकतम brod संपादित  the text for publication by Verlag Die Schmiede .
The original manuscript  is आयोजित at the संग्रहालय of आधुनिक  Literature , Marbach am Neckar , Germany .
In  1999 , the किताब थी सूचीबद्ध in le mondes 100 किताबे of the सदी और as no  . 2 of the Best German Novels of the Twentieth Century .
Lisa Anne Loeb  ( born कूच 11 , 1968 ) is  an American singer-songwriter and actress .
She launched her  करियर in 1994 साथ the सोंग , `` रहो ( i छूटी तुम ) `` , जिससे थी  included in the film Reality Bites .
She was the first artist to  have a क्रमांक एक सिंगल in the संयुक्त राज्य  while not signed to a recording contract .
उसके पाँच स्टुडियो cds शामिल उसके प्रमुख लेबल डेब्यू  , the gold-selling Tails and its follow-up , the Grammy-nominated , gold-selling Firecracker .
Loeb has also  worked in फिल्मी , टेलीविज़न  , voice-over work and children’s recordings .
Loeb has appeared in two television series , Dweezil & Lisa , a weekly culinary adventure for  the खाना संजाल और क्रमांक 1 सिंगल , a वास्तविकता दिखाएँ  on the E !
Network in 2006 focused on her  क्वेस्ट लिये प्रेम , कामयाबी  , career , and family .
Her children 's music includes the albums Catch the Moon ( 2003  ) , और शिविर लिसा ( 2008 )  .
Her  पहला संयुक्त children 's किताब और एल्बम लिसा लोएब 's  Silly Sing-Along : The Disappointing Pancake and Other Zany Songs was published in 2011 .
In 2010 she founded the Lisa Loeb  चश्मा संग्रहण , जिससे is आधारित on  her own designs .
The Coat of arms of  the राज्य of नई जर्सी शामिलs:
A shield with three plows emblazoned ,  प्रतिनिधि of नई जर्सी 's agricultural  tradition .
A forward-facing  नाईट 's हेल्मेट  .
A horse 's head  as the crest of the हेल्मेट  .
The female figures  स्वतंत्रता और ceres , प्रतिनिधि of  the state 's motto ( see next item ) .
Liberty is holding a staff supporting a  `` स्वतंत्रता कैप `` ; ceres is पकड़कर an overflowing  cornucopia .
The streamer at the foot of the emblem contains  the राज्य motto of नई जर्सी , `` स्वतंत्रता और समृद्धि  '' , and the year of statehood , 1776 .
It was originally designed by Pierre  यूजीन du simitiere in 1777 और थी परिवर्धित  slightly in 1928 .
The seal is the central motif in the flag of New Jersey and  the ग्रेट मुहर of the राज्य of नई जर्सी  .
The Coat of  बाहें contains a घोड़ा  's head .
A helmet showing that  नई जर्सी governs itself तदनुसार और तीन plows on a शील्ड referring to  the State 's agriculture tradition , giving it the nickname `` Garden State '' .
The two  देवियाँ represent the राज्य motto  , `` Liberty and Prosperity '' .
स्वतंत्रता is on the  left .
She is  पकड़कर a स्टाफ साथ a स्वतंत्रता कैप on it , और the शब्द  liberty underneath her .
The  देवी on the सही  is Ceres , goddess of agriculture .
She is holding a  cornucopia साथ समृद्धि लिखा  below her .
According to the minutes of the New Jersey General Assembly for March 11 ,  1896 , the तिथि in जिससे the सभा officially स्वीकृत the ध्वज as the राज्य emblem , the buff रंग is due indirectly to जार्ज वॉशिंगटन , जो था ordered on अक्तूबर 2 , 1779  , that the uniform coats of the New Jersey Continental Line be dark ( Jersey ) blue , with buff facings .
Buff-colored facings had until then been reserved only for his  अपना वर्दी और those of अन्य महाद्वीपीय सेनापतियों  and their aides .
Then  , on फ़रवरी 28 , 1780 , the महाद्वीपीय युद्ध अधिकारियों in फिलाडेल्फिया निर्देशित कि the वर्दी  coat facings of all regiments were to be the same as the background color of the regiments ' state flag .
The seal  is वर्णित in नई जर्सी statute  Title 52 , §2-1:
`` We Can Work It Out '' is a song by the  बीटल्स , लिखा by पॉल mccartney और  John Lennon .
It was released as  a `` दोगुना a-sided `` सिंगल साथ `` दिन tripper `` , the पहला समय दोनो  sides of a single were so designated in an initial release .
Both  गीतों यहूद अंकित दौरान  the Rubber Soul sessions .
The song is an example  of lennon–mccartney सहयोग at a गहराई कि happened  only rarely after they wrote the hit singles of 1963 .
This song , `` A Day in the Life `` , `` Baby , You 're  a समृद्ध man `` और `` i 've मिला a अहसास `` , हैं among the notable अपवाद .
As a medical diagnosis , pedophilia or paedophilia is a  मनोरोग विकार in व्यक्तियों 16 सालो of आयु or पुरानी typically characterized by a प्राथमिक or विशेष यौन ब्याज toward prepubescent children ( generally आयु 11 सालो or younger  , though specific diagnosis criteria for the disorder extends the cut-off point for prepubescence to age 13 ) .
An adolescent who is 16 years of age or older must be at least five years older than  the prepubescent चाइल्ड पहले the आकर्षण can be diagnosed as pedophilia  .
The term has a  दायरा of परिभाषाएं , as मिला in psychiatry  , psychology , the vernacular , and law enforcement .
The International Classification of Diseases ( ICD ) defines pedophilia as a `` disorder of adult personality and behaviour '' in which there is  a यौन वरीयता लिये children of prepubertal or जल्दी pubertal आयु  .
According to the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders ( DSM ) , it is a paraphilia in which adults or adolescents 16 years of age or older have intense and  तूल यौन प्रेरणाएं towards और कल्पनाओं परिचय prepubescent children कि वे have either acted on or जिससे कारण उन्हें तकलीफ or interpersonal  difficulty .
In popular usage , pedophilia means any  यौन ब्याज in children or the अधिनियम of चाइल्ड यौन  abuse , often termed `` pedophilic behavior '' .
For example , The American Heritage Stedman 's  चिकित्सा शब्दकोष राज्य , `` pedophilia is the अधिनियम or काल्पनिक on the भाग of an वयस्क  of engaging in sexual activity with a child or children . ''
This common use  अनुप्रयोग भी extends to the यौन ब्याज in और यौन सम्पर्क  with pubescent or post-pubescent minors .
Researchers recommend that these imprecise uses be avoided because although people who commit child sexual abuse commonly exhibit the disorder , some  अपराधियों do नहीं मिलें the नैदानिक निदान मानकों लिये pedophilia  and these standards pertain to prepubescents .
additionally , नहीं सब pedophiles  actually commit such abuse .
Pedophilia  थी पहला formally पहचाना और नामित in  the late 19th century .
A significant  राशि of शोध in the क्षेत्रफल रै लिया  place since the 1980s .
Although mostly documented in men , there are also women who  प्रदर्शनी the विकार , और शोधकर्ताओं assume उपलब्धियाँ  estimates underrepresent the true number of female pedophiles .
No cure for pedophilia has been developed , but there are therapies  कि can reduce the incidence of a व्यक्ति committing चाइल्ड  sexual abuse .
In the United States , following Kansas v. Hendricks , sex offenders who are diagnosed with certain mental disorders , particularly  pedophilia , can be विषय to indefinite सिविल प्रतिबद्धता , अंतर्गत विभिन्न राज्य कानून ( generically पुकारा svp कानून ) और the संघीय  Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act of 2006 .
At present , the  सटीक कल्याणकारी of pedophilia have  not been conclusively established .
Research suggests that pedophilia  may be correlated साथ अनेक अलग neurological abnormalities , और प्रायः co-exists  with other personality disorders and psychological pathologies .
In the contexts of forensic psychology and law enforcement , a variety of typologies have been suggested  to categorize pedophiles according to बर्ताव  and motivations .
Julio César Chávez  ( born जूलियो césar chávez gonzález  on July 12 , 1962 ) is a retired Mexican professional boxer .
Chávez is considered by many people for their sport  आंकडे the महानतम सेनानी कभी to आइये आउट  of Mexico .
He is a six-time world champion in three weight divisions ,  और लिये अनेक सालो he थी माना एक of the बेहतरीन pound-for-pound boxer in  the world .
In a career that spanned over 25 years , Chávez won five world titles in three weight divisions : WBC Super Featherweight in 1984 , WBA Lightweight in 1987 , WBC  lightweight in 1988 , wbc लाइट welterweight in 1989 , ibf लाइट welterweight in 1990 , और wbc लाइट welterweight  in 1994 .
He holds records for most successful consecutive defenses of world titles ( 27 ) ,  सबसे शीर्षक झगड़े ( 37 ) , सबसे title-fight victories ( 31 ) और he is बाद जो लुई साथ ( 23 ) लिये सबसे  title defenses won by knockout ( 21 ) .
Chávez also has the longest  अपराजित streak in मुक्केबाज़ी इतिहास  , 13 years .
His record was 89-0-1 going  into उसके पहला घाटा to फ्रेंकी रान्डेल और था an 87 लड़ो जीत streak जबतक  his `` draw '' with Whitaker .
Julio César Chávez was known for his outstanding punching power , devastating body attack ,  remarkably दमदार chin और the अथक stalking of उसके  opponents .
He ranks # 24 on  ईएसपीएन 's 50 महानतम मुक्केबाज of सब  Time .
On December 7 , 2010 , he was inducted in the  prestigious अंतरराष्ट्रीय मुक्केबाज़ी हॉल of कीर्ति लिये the क्लास of  2011 .
He is the father of prospect Omar Chávez and former  wbc middleweight चैंपियन जूलियो césar  Chávez , Jr .
`` Selektion `` on the  judenrampe , auschwitz , may/june 1944  .
To be sent to the right  meant स्लेव मजदूर ; to the बाएँ , the  gas chamber .
This  चित्र shows the आगमन of हंगेरियाई यहूदियों इससे carpatho-ruthenia  , many of them from the Berehov ghetto .
The photographer was Ernst Hofmann or Bernhard Walter  of the ss . चित्र सौजन्य of yad vashem
The Holocaust ( from the Greek ' : hólos , `` whole '' and kaustós , `` burnt '' ) also known as  the shoah ( यहूदी : , hashoah , `` प्रलय '' ; यहूदी : , churben or hurban , इससे the यहूदी लिये `` विनाश '' ) , थी the द्रव्यमान हत्या or नरसंहार of लगभग छह लाख यहूदियों दौरान संसार  War II , a programme of systematic state-sponsored murder by Nazi Germany , led by Adolf Hitler and the Nazi Party , throughout German-occupied territory .
Of the nine million Jews  जो था resided in यूरोपीय पहले the holocaust , लगभग two-thirds  were killed .
Over one million Jewish children  यहूद मारे in the holocaust , as यहूद लगभग दो  million Jewish women and three million Jewish men .
A network of over 40,000  सुविधाएं in जर्मनी और german-occupied territory यहूद प्रयुक्त to concentrate , थाम , और  kill Jews and other victims .
Some scholars argue that the mass murder of the Romani and people with disabilities should be included in the definition , and some use the common  संज्ञा `` holocaust '' to describe अन्य नाजी द्रव्यमान हत्याएं , सहित those of सोवियत बंदियों of युद्ध , पॉलिश और सोवियत नागरिकों , और  homosexuals .
Recent  estimates आधारित on आंकड़े प्राप्त चूंकि the पतन of the सोवियत संघ indicates कुछ टेन to  eleven million civilians and prisoners of war were intentionally murdered by the Nazi regime .
The persecution and  नरसंहार यहूद carried आउट  in stages .
Various laws to  हटाएँ the यहूदियों इससे सिविल समाज , सबसे prominently the nuremberg कानून , यहूद enacted in  Germany years before the outbreak of World War II .
विशेषज्ञता शिविरों यहूद स्थापित in जिससे inmates यहूद  subjected to slave labor until they died of exhaustion or disease .
Where Germany conquered new  territory in पूर्वी यूरोपीय , specialized इकाई पुकारा einsatzgruppen  murdered Jews and political opponents in mass shootings .
The occupiers required Jews and Romani to be confined in overcrowded ghettos  पहले होने transported by भाड़ा ट्रैन to extermination शिविरों जहाँ , if वे बच the यात्रा , सबसे यहूद systematically  killed in gas chambers .
Every arm of Germany 's bureaucracy was involved in the logistics  कि led to the genocides , turning the तीसरा reich into कया एक holocaust विद्वान रै पुकारा  `` a genocidal state '' .
4-H in the United States is a youth organization administered by  the नेशनल संस्थान of खाना और कृषि of the संयुक्त राज्य विभाग of कृषि ( यूएसडीए ) , साथ the मिशन of `` engaging युवावस्था to पहुँचें  their fullest potential while advancing the field of youth development . ''
The name represents four personal development  क्षेत्रों of फ़ोकस लिये the संगठन : सिर , दिल , हैंड्स , और  health .
The organization has over 6.5 million members in  the संयुक्त राज्य , इससे आयु पाँच to twenty-one , in लगभग  90,000 clubs .
The  लक्ष्य of 4-h is to develop नागरिकता , नेतृत्व , जिम्मेदारी और  life skills of youth through experiential learning programs and a positive youth development approach .
Though typically thought of as an agriculturally  केन्द्रित संगठन as a परिणाम of इसके इतिहास , 4-h आज focuses on नागरिकता , स्वस्थ जीना ,  science , engineering , and technology programs .
Today , 4-H and related programs exist in over eighty countries around the world ; the organization and  प्रशासन varies इससे देश to देश  .
Each of these programs operates independently ,  लकिन cooperatively through अंतरराष्ट्रीय exchanges  , global education programs , and communications .
The 4-H motto is  `` to मेक the बेहतरीन बेहतर '' , जबकि इसके स्लोगन is `` सीख  by doing '' ( sometimes written as `` Learn to do by doing '' ) .
The national flag of Chile , consists of two unequal horizontal bands of white and red and a blue square the same height as  the श्वेत बैंड in the कैण्टन , जिससे bears a श्वेत five-pointed स्टार in the बीच  .
It  थी अपनाया on 18 अक्तूबर  1817 .
The  chilean ध्वज is भी ज्ञात in  Spanish as La Estrella Solitaria ( The Lone Star ) .
The star represents a guide to progress and honor ; blue  symbolizes the आसमान और the प्रशांत समंदर , श्वेत is लिये the snow-covered andes , और रेड स्टैंड  for the blood spilled to achieve independence .
According to the epic poem La  araucana , the रंगों यहूद निकला इससे those इससे the ध्वज flown  by the Mapuche during the Arauco War .
`` Flag Day  '' is आयोजित प्रत्येक साल on the नवीं of जुलाई to commemorate  the 77 soldiers who died in the 1882 Battle of La Concepción .
Generation Y , also known as  the अंतर्दृष्टियों पीढी , is  the demographic cohort following Generation X .
There are no precise dates for when  पीढी y starts और ends  .
Commentators use beginning  जनम तिथियाँ इससे the latter 1970s  , or from the early 1980s to the early 2000s .
The Torches of  नीरो , by henryk  Siemiradzki .
according to tacitus , नीरो targeted  Christians as those responsible for the fire .
The  ग्रेट आग of रोम ( ) थी an शहरी आग कि occurred  beginning 19 July AD 64 .
Virginia ( ) , officially the Commonwealth of Virginia , is a U.S. state  स्तिथ in the दक्षिण अटलांटिक प्रदेश of the संयुक्त  States .
Virginia is  nicknamed the `` बूढ़ा डोमिनियन '' और the `` माँ of राष्ट्रपतियों '' बाद the आठ  U.S. presidents born there .
The geography and climate of the Commonwealth are shaped by the  ब्लू लकीरें kyu और the chesapeake खाड़ी , जिससे provide आवास लिये much of  its flora and fauna .
The capital  of the राष्ट्रमंडल is रिचमंड ; और वर्जिनिया बीच is the  most populous city .
Fairfax County is the most  populous राजनैतिक subdivision  .
The  wealthiest is loudoun  County .
The Commonwealth 's  जनसांख्यिकी is over आठ  million .
The area 's  इतिहास begins साथ अनेक स्वदेशी समूह , सहित  the Powhatan .
In 1607 the London Company established the Colony of Virginia  as the पहला स्थाई नई संसार अंग्रेज़ी  colony .
Slave labor and the land acquired from  विस्थापित देशी अमरीकी जनजातियों प्रत्येक निभाई a significant भूमिका in the उपनिवेश  's early politics and plantation economy .
Virginia was one of the  13 colonies in the अमरीकी क्रान्ति और joined the confederacy in the अमरीकी सिविल युद्ध , दौरान जिससे  Richmond was made the Confederate capital and Virginia 's northwestern counties seceded to form the state of West Virginia .
Although the  राष्ट्रमंडल थी अंतर्गत रूढ़िवादी single-party नियम लिये nearly a सदी following पुनर्निर्माण  , both major national parties are competitive in modern Virginia .
The Virginia General Assembly is  the oldest विधानमंडल in the पश्चिमी गोलार्ध  .
the राज्य सरकारी रै महरूम repeatedly क्रमित  most effective by the Pew Center on the States .
it is अद्वितीय in कैसा it ट्रीट शहरों और काउंटी बराबर , manages लोकल  roads , and prohibits its governors from serving consecutive terms .
Virginia 's economy has many sectors : agriculture in the Shenandoah Valley ; federal agencies in Northern Virginia , including the  मुख्यालय of the विभाग of रक्षा और सीआईए ; और सैन्य सुविधाएं in हैम्पटन सड़कें , the साईट of the प्रदेश  's main seaport .
Virginia  's पब्लिक स्कूलों और अनेक कॉलेजों और विश्वविद्यालयों  have contributed to growing media and technology sectors .
as a परिणाम , कंप्यूटर चिप्स  have become the state 's leading export .
Windows Movie Maker ( formerly known as Windows Live Movie  मेकर , codenamed sundance  ) is a freeware video editing software by Microsoft .
It is a part  of खिड़कियाँ अनिवार्य तन्त्र सुइट और offers the क्षमता  to create and edit videos as well as to publish them on SkyDrive , Facebook , YouTube , and Flickr .
`` Brenda 's Got A Baby '' is the solo debut single  by तुपाक shakur , और दसवाँ track इससे उसके डेब्यू एल्बम  , 2Pacalypse Now .
The song , which features R & B singer Dave Hollister  , is परिचय a बारह year-old लड़की नामित ब्रेंडा जो जीवनदान in a ghetto  , has a baby , and is incapable of supporting it .
The song explores the issue of teen  गर्भावस्था और इसके प्रभाव on the यंग माताओं और उनके  families .
Like  अनेक of shakur 's गीतों , `` ब्रेंडा 's मिला a baby '' draws  from the plight of the impoverished .
Using Brenda to represent young  माताओं in सामान्य , shakur criticises the कम स्तर of support  from the baby 's father , the government , and society in general .
Shakur wrote the song when he read a newspaper article about a  twelve-year-old लड़की जो मिला गर्भवती इससे उसके cousin और , क्युकी वो किया नहीं want उसके अभिभावक to जान परिचय the baby , फेंका it in a  trash can .
The official logo of Pokémon for its international release ; `` Pokémon  '' is छोटी लिये the असली जापानी शीर्षक of `` जेब  Monsters '' .
is a मीडिया मताधिकार प्रकाशित और स्वामित्व by जापानी  video game company Nintendo and created by Satoshi Tajiri in 1996 .
Originally released as a pair of interlinkable Game Boy role-playing video  खेल विकसित by खेल freak , पोकीमॉन रै चूंकि become the second-most कामयाब और lucrative वीडियो game-based  media franchise in the world , behind only Nintendo 's own Mario franchise .
Pokémon properties  have चूंकि महरूम merchandised into दुश्मनी , manga , व्यापार  cards , toys , books , and other media .
The  मताधिकार मनाये in 2006 , और , संचयी बिक्री of the वीडियो खेल  ( including home console versions , such as the `` Pikachu '' Nintendo 64 ) have reached more than 200 million copies .
In November 2005 , 4Kids Entertainment , which had managed the non-game related licensing of  पोकीमॉन , घोषित कि it था सहमत नहीं to नवीनीकृत  the Pokémon representation agreement .
Pokémon USA Inc. ( now The Pokémon Company International ) , a subsidiary of Japan 's  पोकीमॉन co. , अभी oversees सब पोकीमॉन लाइसेंसिंग  outside of Asia .
The name Pokémon is the romanized  संकुचन of the जापानी ब्रांड  .
The term Pokémon , in addition to referring to the Pokémon franchise itself , also collectively refers to the 649  fictional प्रजाति कि have बना दिखावे in पोकीमॉन मीडिया as of the रिलीज of the पांचवां पीढी शीर्षक पोकीमॉन ब्लैक 2 और श्वेत 2 ; साथ the आगामी रिलीज of पोकीमॉन x और  Y , 6 new Pokémon have been featured in promotions for the games .
``  पोकीमॉन '' is एकसमान in दोनो the एकवचन और बहुवचन , as is  each individual species name ; it is grammatically correct to say `` one Pokémon '' and `` many Pokémon '' , as well as `` one Pikachu `` and `` many Pikachu '' .
Cover of the  पहला संस्करण of the प्रकाशन  Dada by Tristan Tzara ; Zurich , 1917
Dada ( ) or Dadaism was an art  गति of the यूरोपीय avant-garde  in the early 20th century .
Many claim Dada began in Zurich ,  स्विट्ज़रलैंड in 1916 , spreading to बर्लिन shortly thereafter लकिन the  height of New York Dada was the year before in 1915 .
To  उद्धरण डोना budd 's the भाषा of आर्ट ज्ञान , दादा  was born out of negative reaction to the horrors of World War I .
This international movement was  begun by a समूह of कलाकार और कवियों संबद्ध  with the Cabaret Voltaire in Zurich .
Dada  अस्वीकृत कारण और लॉजिक , prizing बकवास , irrationality  and intuition .
The origin of the name Dada is  unclear ; कुछ मानना कि it is a nonsensical  word .
Others maintain that it originates from the Romanian artists Tristan Tzara and Marcel  janco 's बारंबार उपयोग of the शब्द da , da , अर्थ यस , यस in the रोमानियाई भाषा  .
another सिद्धान्त says कि the नाम `` दादा '' आए दौरान a बैठक of  the group when a paper knife stuck into a French-German dictionary happened to point to 'dada ' , a French word for 'hobbyhorse ' .
The movement primarily involved visual arts , literature , poetry , art manifestoes , art theory , theatre , and graphic design ,  और concentrated इसके anti-war राजनीती through a अस्वीकृति of the प्रचलित मानकों in आर्ट through anti-art सांस्कृतिक  works .
In addition to being anti-war , Dada was also  anti- बुर्जुआ और था राजनैतिक affinities साथ the कट्टरपंथी बाएँ  .
Dada activities included public gatherings , demonstrations , and publication of art/literary journals ;  passionate कवरेज of आर्ट , राजनीती , और संस्कृति यहूद विषय  often discussed in a variety of media .
Key figures in the movement included Hugo Ball , Emmy Hennings , Hans Arp , Raoul Hausmann , Hannah Höch , Johannes Baader , Tristan Tzara , Francis Picabia ,  रिचर्ड huelsenbeck , georg grosz , जॉन heartfield , मार्सल duchamp , beatrice लकडी , कर्ट schwitters , और hans रिक्टर , among अन्य  .
The movement influenced later styles like the avant-garde and downtown music  आंदोलनों , और समूह सहित surrealism , देवानंद réalisme , पॉप  art and Fluxus .
दादा is the groundwork to अमूर्त आर्ट और ध्वनि काव्य , a starting पाइंट लिये प्रदर्शन आर्ट , a prelude to postmodernism ,  an influence on pop art , a celebration of antiart to be later embraced for anarcho-political uses in the 1960s and the movement that lay the foundation for Surrealism .
पहला trophic  level .
The plants in this image , and the  शैवाल और phytoplankton in the झील  , are primary producers .
They take nutrients from the soil  or the जल , और manufacture उनके अपना खाना by photosynthesis  , using energy from the sun .
The trophic level of an organism is  the स्थिति it occupies in a खाना कड़ी  .
The word trophic derives from  the यूनानी τροφή ( trophē ) referring to खाना  or feeding .
A food chain represents a succession of organisms that  खा another सजीव और हैं , in  turn , eaten themselves .
The number of steps an organism is from the start of the chain is  a माप of इसके trophic स्तर  .
Food chains start at trophic  स्तर 1 साथ प्राथमिक निर्माता ऐसे as पौधे , मूव to herbivores at स्तर 2 , परभक्षी  at level 3 and typically finish with carnivores or apex predators at level 4 or 5 .
The path along the chain can form  either a one-way प्रवाह ,  or a food `` web . ''
Ecological communities with higher  biodiversity रूप अधिक जटिल  trophic paths .
Four of the most  महत्वपूर्ण domesticated  silk moths .
Top to bottom : Bombyx mori ,  hyalophora cecropia , antheraea pernyi  , Samia cynthia .
From  मेयर्स konversations-lexikon  ( 1885-1892 )
a silk-producing  raspy cricket .
Silk is a  प्राकृतिक प्रोटीन fibre , कुछ फ़ॉर्म  of which can be woven into textiles .
The protein fibre of silk is composed mainly of  fibroin और उत्पादित by निश्चित कीट लार्वे to  form cocoons .
The  best-known प्रकार of रेशा is प्राप्त इससे the cocoons of the लार्वे of the शहतूत  silkworm Bombyx mori reared in captivity ( sericulture ) .
The  shimmering रूप of रेशा is due to the triangular प्रिज़्म -like ढांचा  of the silk fibre , which allows silk cloth to refract incoming light at different angles , thus producing different colors .
Silks  हैं उत्पादित by अनेक अन्य कीट , लकिन generally तभी the रेशा of शलभ  caterpillars has been used for textile manufacturing .
There has been some research into  अन्य silks , जिससे differ at the  molecular level .
Many silks are mainly produced by the larvae of insects undergoing complete metamorphosis , but some adult insects  ऐसे as webspinners उपज रेशा , और कुछ  insects such as raspy crickets produce silk throughout their lives .
Silk production also occurs in  कलापक्ष ( मधुमक्खियों , wasps , और चींटियों ) , silverfish , mayflies , thrips , leafhoppers , भृंग , lacewings  , fleas , flies and midges .
Other types of  सन्धिपाद उपज रेशा , सबसे notably विभिन्न  arachnids such as spiders ( see spider silk ) .
Late Show with David Letterman is an American  late-night बात दिखाएँ hosted by दाउद लेटरमैन on  CBS .
The show debuted on August 30 , 1993 , and is produced by Letterman  's उत्पादन कम्पनी , विश्वव्यापी पैंट  Incorporated .
The show 's music director and band-leader of the  हाउस बैंड , the सीबीएस ऑर्केस्ट्रा , is पॉल shaffer  .
The head writer  is मैट रॉबर्ट्स और the  announcer is Alan Kalter .
Of the major U.S. late-night programs , Late Show  बाँधने दूसरी in संचयी औसत दर्शक over समय और तीसरा in क्रमांक of एपीसोड over समय  .
The show leads other late night shows in ad  आय साथ $ 271 लाख in 2009  .
In  सबसे u.S. बाज़ार the दिखाएँ airs at 11:35 p.m. eastern/pacific समय  , but is recorded Monday through Wednesday at 4:30 p.m. , and Thursdays at 3:30 p.m and 6:00 p.m .
The  दूसरी गुरुवार एपीसोड प्रायः  airs on Friday of that week .
In 2002 , Late Show with David Letterman was  क्रमित no . 7 on tv मार्गदर्शिका 's 50 महानतम tv shows of  All Time .
CBS has a  अनुबंध साथ विश्वव्यापी पैंट to continue the दिखाएँ through 2014 ; by  then , Letterman will surpass Johnny Carson as the longest tenured late-night talk show host .
The Real Housewives  of नारंगी काउंटी is an अमरीकी वास्तविकता वृत्तचित्र  television program on Bravo , set in Orange County , California .
It was the first The Real  housewives कार्यक्रम in  the series .
The series is a voyeuristic look into the wealthy  जीवनदान of ये housewives , as वे दूकान  , get plastic surgery , gossip , fight and live lavishly .
The financial crisis , the beginning of which coincided almost exactly with the first season 's broadcast , has since trimmed the  housewives ' lifestyles साथ जॉब नुकसान , evictions , बंधक मूलभूत , foreclosures , और वैवाहिक stress—all अंकित in प्रगतिशील सीज़न of  the show .
Cyberstalking is the use of the Internet or other  इलेक्ट्रॉनिक अर्थात् to stalk or harass an व्यक्तिगत , a समूह of individuals , or an  organization .
It may include the making of false accusations or  कथन of फैक्ट ( as in मानहानि ) , निगरानी , बनाना खतरे , पहचान चोरी  , damage to data or equipment , the solicitation of minors for sex , or gathering information that may be used to harass .
The definition of ``  उत्पीड़न '' जरूर मिलें the मानदंड कि a उचित व्यक्ति , in कब्ज़ा of the वही सूचना , होता  regard it as sufficient to cause another reasonable person distress .
cyberstalking is अलग इससे स्थानिक or ऑफ़लाइन stalking in कि it  occurs through the use of electronic communications technology such as the internet .
However ,  it sometimes लीड to it , or is accompanied  by it .
Both  हैं दण्ड offenses  .
Cyberstalking  साझा महत्वपूर्ण विशेषताएँ  with offline stalking .
Many  stalkers – ऑनलाइन or बंद –  are motivated by a desire to control their victims .
A  cyberstalker may be an ऑनलाइन अजनबी or a व्यक्ति  whom the target knows .
A  cyberstalker may be बेनाम और may solicit भागीदारी  of other people online who do not even know the target .
cyberstalking is a दण्ड ठोकर कि आता into खेल अंतर्गत  state anti-stalking laws , slander laws , and harassment laws .
A cyberstalking conviction can result  in a restraining अनुक्रम , परिवीक्षा , or भी  criminal penalties against the assailant , including jail .
A business letter is  प्रायः प्रयुक्त जब लिखने इससे एक कम्पनी to another , or लिये पत्राचार between  such organizations and their customers , clients and other external parties .
The overall style of letter  होगा निर्भर on the संबंध between  the parties concerned .
There are  अनेक कारण to लिखें a कारोबार  letter .
It could be to  निवेदन सीधा सूचना or कार्रवाई इससे another पार्टी , to अनुक्रम आपूर्तियाँ इससे a प्रदायक  , to identify a mistake that was committed , to reply directly to a request , to apologize for a wrong or simply to convey goodwill .
Even today , the business letter is still very useful because it produces  a स्थाई रिकार्ड , is गोपनीय , औपचारिक और delivers persuasive  , well-considered messages .
Tilapia ( ) is the common  नाम लिये nearly a सौ प्रजाति of cichlid  fish from the tilapiine cichlid tribe .
Tilapia  हैं मुख्यतः freshwater मछली , inhabiting उथले स्ट्रीम ,  ponds , rivers and lakes , and less commonly found living in brackish water .
Historically  , वे have महरूम of प्रमुख महत्व in कारीगर फ़िशिंग in अफ़्रीकी  and the Levant , and are of increasing importance in aquaculture .
Tilapia can become problematic invasive species in new warm-water habitats , whether  deliberately or accidentally introduced , लकिन generally नहीं in शीतोष्ण climates  due to their inability to survive in cooler waters below about .
Turner & Hooch  is a 1989 कॉमेडी नाटक अपराधों फिल्मी अभिनीत tom हैंक्स और beasley  the Dog as the eponymous characters , Turner and Hooch respectively .
The film also stars Mare Winningham , Craig T. Nelson ,  और रेगिनाल्ड veljohnson  .
It was directed by Roger Spottiswoode ; the film  थी originally slated to be निर्देशित by हेनरी winkler , लकिन he थी terminated due to  `` creative differences '' .
It was co-written by Michael  blodgett इससे परे the घाटी  of the Dolls fame .
Although K-9 ( with James Belushi ) was released  prior to इस फिल्मी ( exactly तीन महीने पहले ) , टर्नर & hooch became अधिक लोकप्रिय और seemingly  overshadowed its greater success , even though K-9 had a very similar plot .
A pilot for a Turner & Hooch TV series was made and ran  as a भाग of the जादुई संसार  of Disney .
This is a list  of israeli एयरपोर्ट , sorted  by location .
Entrance  to ovda  Airport
टर्मिनल 3 at  Ben Gurion
Plane landing  at be'er sheva  ( Teyman )
Eilat  विमानक्षेत्र
Adolf Hitler ( ; 20 April 1889 – 30 April 1945 ) was an Austrian  -born जर्मनी राजनेता और the नेता of the  Nazi Party ( ( NSDAP ) ; National Socialist German Workers Party ) .
He was chancellor of Germany  इससे 1933 to 1945 और तानाशाह of नाजी  Germany ( as Führer und Reichskanzler ) from 1934 to 1945 .
Hitler was at the centre of Nazi  जर्मनी , संसार युद्ध ii in  Europe , and the Holocaust .
Hitler was a decorated  दिग्गज of संसार युद्ध i  .
he joined the जर्मनी मजदूर ' पार्टी  ( precursor of the NSDAP ) in 1919 , and became leader of the NSDAP in 1921 .
in 1923 , he attempted a तख्तापलट  d'état in Munich , known as the Beer Hall Putsch .
The  विफल तख्तापलट resulted in हिटलर 's कारावास , दौरान जिससे समय  he wrote his memoir , Mein Kampf ( My Struggle ) .
After his release in 1924 , Hitler gained  लोकप्रिय support by attacking the सन्धि of versailles और promoting pan-germanism  , antisemitism , and anti-communism with charismatic oratory and Nazi propaganda .
After his appointment as chancellor in 1933 , he transformed the Weimar Republic  into the तीसरा reich , a single-party तानाशाही आधारित on the अधिनायकवादी और निरंकुश विचारधारा  of Nazism .
Hitler 's aim was to establish a New Order of absolute Nazi  जर्मनी आधिपत्य in महाद्वीपीय यूरोपीय  .
To this end , his foreign and domestic policies had  the उद्देश्य of seizing lebensraum ( `` जीना स्पेस  '' ) for the Germanic people .
He directed the rearmament of Germany and the  आक्रमण of कैंडल by the wehrmacht in सितंबर 1939 , resulting in the outbreak of  World War II in Europe .
Under Hitler 's rule , in 1941 German forces and their  यूरोपीय allies occupied सबसे of यूरोपीय और उत्तर  Africa .
In 1943 ,  जर्मनी था महरूम मजबूर onto the रक्षात्मक और  suffered a series of escalating defeats .
In the final days of the war , during the Battle of  बर्लिन in 1945 , हिटलर शादीशुदा उसके long-time संगी  , Eva Braun .
On 30  अप्रैल 1945 , कम than दो दिनों बाद , the दो वचनबद्ध  suicide to avoid capture by the Red Army , and their corpses were burned .
Hitler 's aggressive foreign  नीति is माना the प्रमुख कारण of the outbreak  of World War II in Europe .
His antisemitic policies and racially motivated ideology resulted in the deaths of at least 5.5  लाख यहूदियों , और लाखो of अन्य लोगों deemed  racially inferior .
अंगूठा
A domain  नाम is an पहचान स्ट्रिंग कि defines a फ्रेम of प्रशासनिक  autonomy , authority , or control on the Internet .
Domain names  हैं formed by the नियम और प्रक्रियाओं  of the Domain Name System ( DNS ) .
Technically ,  कोई नाम पंजीकृत in the डीएनएस is a  domain name .
Domain names are used in various  नेटवर्किंग contexts और application-specific  naming and addressing purposes .
In general , a domain name represents an Internet Protocol ( IP ) resource , such as a  निजी कंप्यूटर प्रयुक्त to अभिगम the अंतरजाल , a सर्वर कंप्यूटर होस्टिंग a वेब साईट , or the वेब साईट itself  or any other service communicated via the Internet .
Domain names are organized in subordinate levels (  subdomains ) of the डीएनएस रूट डोमेन , जिससे  is nameless .
The first-level set of domain names are the top-level domains ( TLDs ) , including the generic top-level  डोमेन ( gtlds ) , ऐसे as the prominent डोमेन com , सूचना , जाल और org , और the देश कोड  top-level domains ( ccTLDs ) .
Below these top-level domains in the DNS hierarchy are the second-level and third-level domain names that are typically open for  रिज़र्वेशन by end-users जो काश to कनेक्ट लोकल क्षेत्रफल संजाल to the अंतरजाल , बनाएँ अन्य सरेआम accessible अंतरजाल  resources or run web sites .
The registration of  ये डोमेन names is प्रायः administered by डोमेन नाम registrars  who sell their services to the public .
A fully qualified domain name ( FQDN  ) is a डोमेन नाम कि is completely निर्दिष्ट  in the hierarchy of the DNS , having no omitted parts .
Domain names are usually written in lowercase , although labels  in the डोमेन नाम प्रणाली हैं case-insensitive  .
नाइट्रेट is a polyatomic आयन साथ the आणविक सूत्र no3− और a आणविक द्रव्यमान  of 62.0049 g/mol . Nitrates also describe the organic functional group RONO2 .
These nitrate  esters हैं a specialized क्लास of  explosives .
A  गेहूं कटाई  in Idaho
This photo  इससे a 1921 ज्ञानकोष shows a ट्रैक्टर ploughing  a crop field .
Agriculture is a major  उद्योग in the संयुक्त राज्य और the देश is a  net exporter of food .
As of the last census of  कृषि in 2007 , वहीँ यहूद 2.2 लाख खेतो , covering  an area of , an average of per farm .
Although agricultural activity occurs in most states , it is particularly  concentrated in the विशाल expanse of चपटा , arable जमीन ज्ञात as the ग्रेट मैदान , जिससे encompasses the  central region of the nation .
The Mpemba  प्रभाव , नामित बाद tanzanian छात्र erasto mpemba , is the  assertion that warmer water can freeze faster than colder water .
Although there is anecdotal support for  the प्रभाव , वहीँ is no अनुबंध on exactly कया the प्रभाव is और अंतर्गत  what circumstances it occurs .
There have been reports of similar  phenomena चूंकि प्राचीन टाइम्स , हालांकि साथ अपर्याप्त  detail for the claims to be replicated .
The phenomenon seems contrary to  ऊष्मागतिकी , लकिन a क्रमांक of संभावित स्पष्टीकरण लिये the प्रभाव  have been proposed .
Further investigations will need to decide on a precise definition of `` freezing ''  और कंट्रोल a विशाल क्रमांक of starting पैरामीटर्स in अनुक्रम to confirm  or explain the effect .
The Siamese ( , ) is one of  the पहला distinctly पहचाना breeds  of Oriental cat .
The breed originated in Thailand (  formerly ज्ञात as सियाम ) , जहाँ वे हैं एक of अनेक देशी breeds और हैं  called Wichian Mat ( วิเชียรมาศ , a name meaning `` moon diamond '' ) .
In the 20th century the Siamese cat became one of  the सबसे लोकप्रिय breeds in यूरोपीय और उत्तर अमेरिका  .
Quality Food Centers ( QFC ) is a  सुपरमार्केट कड़ी आधारित in bellevue , वॉशिंगटन , साथ  64 stores in the Puget Sound region of Washington state and in the Portland , Oregon metropolitan area .
In economics , the money supply or  धन भण्डार , is the कुल राशि of मौद्रिक एसेट उपलब्धियाँ  in an economy at a specific time .
There are several ways to define `` money , '' but standard measures usually include currency in  परिसंचरण और माँग जमा ( जमाकर्ताओं ' easily पहुँचा  assets on the books of financial institutions ) .
Money supply  आंकड़ा हैं अंकित और प्रकाशित , प्रायः  by the government or the central bank of the country .
Public and private sector analysts have long monitored changes in money  सप्लाई क्युकी of इसके प्रभाव on the दाम स्तर , महंगाई , the एक्सचेंज रेट  and the business cycle .
कि संबंध between धन और कीमतें is historically  associated with the quantity theory of money .
There is strong empirical evidence of a direct relation between money-supply growth and long-term price  महंगाई , at तनिक लिये रैपिड increases in the राशि of धन in  the economy .
That is , a country such as Zimbabwe which saw rapid increases  in इसके धन सप्लाई भी देखी रैपिड increases in कीमतें ( hyperinflation  ) .
This is one reason for the reliance on monetary  नीति as a अर्थात् of controlling महंगाई  .
The  प्रकृति of इस causal कड़ी is the विषय  of contention .
Some heterodox economists argue that the money supply is endogenous ( determined by the workings of the  अर्थव्यवस्था , नहीं by the सेंट्रल बैंको ) और कि the स्त्रोत of महंगाई जरूर be मिला in the distributional ढांचा  of the economy .
In addition , those economists seeing the  सेंट्रल बैंको 's कंट्रोल over the धन सप्लाई as feeble कह कि वहीँ हैं दो कमजोर कड़ी  between the growth of the money supply and the inflation rate .
First , in the  aftermath of a मंदी , जब अनेक संसाधन हैं underutilized , an बढ़ाएँ in the धन  supply can cause a sustained increase in real production instead of inflation .
Second , if the velocity of money , i.e. , the ratio between nominal GDP and money  सप्लाई , परिवर्तन , an बढ़ाएँ in the धन सप्लाई could have either no प्रभाव  , an exaggerated effect , or an unpredictable effect on the growth of nominal GDP .
लोगो लिये imax  .
वारेन थिएटर imax सिनेमा , wichita  , Kansas , USA , 601 seats .
A  तुलना between 35 mm  and 15/70 mm negative areas .
IMAX ( an abbreviation for Image Maximum ) is a  गति चित्र फिल्मी स्वरूप और a नियत of सिनेमा प्रक्षेप मानकों  created by the Canadian company IMAX Corporation .
IMAX has the capacity to record and  प्रदर्शक बिंब of दूर वृहद आकार और रेज़ोल्यूशन  than conventional film systems .
Since 2002 , some feature  films have महरूम परिवर्तित ( or upgraded  ) into IMAX format for display in IMAX theatres and some have also been partially shot in IMAX .
IMAX is  the सबसे widely प्रयुक्त प्रणाली लिये  special-venue film presentations .
, there are 697  imax थिएटर in 52 देशों  .
Today  's खास is a कनाडाई children 's टेलीविज़न  show produced by Clive VanderBurgh at TVOntario from 1981 to 1987 .
It also ran on  निकलोडियन और the आस्था और मान channel/odyssey ( अभी the hallmark चैनल ) as खूब as अनेक  PBS stations throughout the United States .
It was set in  a विभाग स्टोर , आधारित on the फ्लैगशिप स्थान of the  now defunct Simpson 's in Toronto .
Many sequences for  it यहूद शॉट at the महारानी गली वेस्ट और  Yonge Street store after hours .
Constitutionalism , in its most general meaning , is `` a complex of ideas ,  attitudes , और पैटर्न of बर्ताव elaborating the principle कि the प्राधिकार of सरकारी गर्भाशयी इससे  and is limited by a body of fundamental law '' .
A political organization is  संवैधानिक to the extent कि it `` contain [ s ] institutionalized mechanisms of शक्ति कंट्रोल लिये the सुरक्षा of the  interests and liberties of the citizenry , including those that may be in the minority `` .
As described by  राजनैतिक वैज्ञानिक और संवैधानिक विद्वान  David Fellman :
An ice-cream headache , also known as  दिमाग फ्रीज , cold-stimulus सिरदर्द , or इसके दिए वैज्ञानिक नाम sphenopalatine ganglioneuralgia ( अर्थ `` तंत्रिका पीड़ा of the sphenopalatine गंडिका `` ) , is a रूप of ब्रैड cranial पीड़ा or सिरदर्द commonly  associated with consumption ( particularly quick consumption ) of cold beverages or foods such as ice cream and ice pops .
It is caused by having something cold touch the roof of the mouth ( palate ) , and is believed to result from a nerve  जवाब causing रैपिड constriction और सूजन of रक्त बरतन or a `` referring `` of पीड़ा इससे the छत of the मुँह to the  head .
The rate of intake for  ठंडा भोजन रै महरूम पढ़ाई as a contributing  factor .
There are people who can  नहीं अनुभव `` दिमाग फ्रीज '' or समान  symptoms .
The term ice-cream  सिरदर्द रै महरूम in उपयोग चूंकि at तनिक 31 जनवरी 1937 , contained in a जर्नल प्रविष्टि by  Rebecca Timbres published in the 1939 book We did n't ask Utopia : a Quaker family in Soviet Russia .
The first  प्रकाशित उपयोग of the पद दिमाग फ्रीज  , as it pertains to cold-induced headaches , was on 27 May 1991 .
`` Auld Lang Syne '' ( : note ``  s '' बल्कि than `` z '' ) is a स्कॉट्स कविता लिखा by रॉबर्ट burns in 1788 और नियत  to the tune of a traditional folk song ( Roud # 6294 ) .
It is well known in many countries , especially in the English-speaking world ;  इसके परंपरागत उपयोग होने to celebrate the प्रारंभ of the नई साल at the स्ट्रोक of मध्यरात्रि  .
By extension ,  it is भी सुंग at अंत्येष्टि , graduations और  as a farewell or ending to other occasions .
The international Boy Scout youth  गति , in अनेक देशों , उपयोग it as a बंद to jamborees  and other functions .
The song 's Scots title may be translated into English literally as `` old long since '' , or more  idiomatically , `` long long पहले '' , `` दिनों गए  by '' or `` old times '' .
Consequently `` For auld lang syne ''  , as it appears in the पहला लकीर of the कोरस , might be loosely अनूदित  as `` for ( the sake of ) old times '' .
the phrase `` auld लैंग syne '' is भी प्रयुक्त in समान कविताएं by रॉबर्ट ayton ( 1570–1638 ) , allan ramsay  ( 1686–1757 ) , and James Watson ( 1711 ) as well as older folk songs predating Burns .
Matthew Fitt uses the phrase `` In the days of auld lang syne '' as the  समतुल्य of `` एकबार upon a समय  ...
``  in उसके retelling of परी किस्से  in the Scots language .
Ben Schulz ,  खिलाड़ी of leeroy  Jenkins at BlizzCon 2007
Leeroy Jenkins , sometimes misspelled Leroy Jenkins and often elongated with numerous additional letters , is an Internet meme named for a player  अक्षर निर्मित by बेन schulz in blizzard entertainment 's mmorpg  , World of Warcraft .
The  अक्षर became लोकप्रिय due to a वीडियो  of the game that circulated around the Internet .
The phenomenon has since  स्प्रेड परे the सीमाएँ of the गेमिंग जातियाँ into अन्य  online and mainstream media .
Oscar Grant was fatally shot  by बार्ट पुलिस अधिकारी योहानेस mehserle in ओकलैंड , कैलिफ़ोर्निया , संयुक्त राज्य  , in the early morning hours of New Year 's Day 2009 .
Responding to reports of a fight on a crowded Bay Area Rapid Transit train returning from  सैन फ्रांसिस्को , बार्ट पुलिस अधिकारियों detained ऑस्कर ग्रान्ट और अनेक अन्य यात्री on the मंच  at the Fruitvale BART Station .
Officer Johannes Mehserle and another officer were  restraining ग्रान्ट , जो थी सजदा और allegedly  resisting arrest .
Officer Mehserle stood and , according  to गवाह , कहा : `` मिलेंगी वापस  , I 'm gon na tase him . ''
Then Mehserle drew his gun and shot Grant once in  the वापस ; mehserle appeared दंग , put उसके हैंड्स to उसके सिर और exclaimed , ``  Oh , my God ! ''
During his court testimony , Mehserle  कहा कि ग्रान्ट तब exclaimed , ``  You shot me ! ''
Grant turned out to be unarmed ; he was pronounced dead the next morning at  highland हॉस्पिटल in ओकलैंड  .
The events were captured  on अनेक डिजिटल  video and cell phone cameras .
The footage was  disseminated to मीडिया आउटलेट और to विभिन्न वेबसाइटों  , where it was watched millions of times .
The following days saw  दोनो शांतिपूर्ण और हिंसक विरोध  .
The shooting has been  variously labeled an involuntary manslaughter  and a summary execution .
On January 13  , alameda काउंटी prosecutors चार्ज mehserle साथ  murder for the shooting .
He resigned  उसके स्थिति और pleaded  not guilty .
The trial  began on जून 10 , 2010  .
Michael Rains , Mehserle 's criminal defense attorney ,  argued कि mehserle mistakenly शॉट ग्रान्ट साथ उसके पिस्टल , intending  to use his Taser when he saw Grant reaching for his waistband .
Pretrial filings argue that his client did not commit first-degree murder and  पूछा a लॉस एंजिल्स न्यायधीश to instruct the जूरी to सीमा इसके deliberations to either second-degree  murder or acquittal .
ओकलैंड सिविल अधिकारों attorney जॉन burris दायर a $ 25 लाख wrongful  death claim against BART on behalf of Grant 's family .
on जुलाई 8 , 2010 , the जूरी लौटे इसके verdict : mehserle थी मिला अपराधी of involuntary  manslaughter and not guilty of second-degree murder and voluntary manslaughter .
Initial protests against the ruling were peacefully organized ; looting ,  आगजनी , विनाश of प्रॉपर्टी , और छोटी  riots broke out after dark .
Nearly 80 people were  आखिरकार गिरफ्तार  .
On Friday , July 9 , 2010 , the U.S. Justice Department opened a civil rights  मामला विरूद्ध mehserle ; the संघीय सरकारी can prosecute उसे independently लिये the वही अधिनियम  under the separate sovereigns exception to double jeopardy .
the विभाग of इंसाफ होगा be working साथ the u.S. attorney  's office in San Francisco and the FBI .
On November 5 , 2010 ,  mehserle थी sentenced to दो सालो , ऋण समय परोसा  .
He served his time in the Los Angeles County  कारावास , occupying a निजी कोशिका दूर इससे अन्य बंदियों  .
He was released on June 13  , 2011 और is अभी on पैरोल  .
Major  प्रतिनिधि of the हार्लेम पुनर्जागरण  .
the हार्लेम पुनर्जागरण थी a सांस्कृतिक  movement that spanned the 1920s .
At the time , it was known as the `` New Negro  गति '' , नामित बाद the 1925 anthology  by Alain Locke .
Though it was centered in the Harlem neighborhood of New York City , many French-speaking black writers from African and Caribbean colonies who lived in Paris were also  बहकावे by the  Harlem Renaissance .
The Harlem Renaissance is  unofficially पहचाना to have spanned इससे परिचय 1919 जबतक  the early or mid-1930s .
Many of its  विचार जिया on much  longer .
The zenith of this ``  flowering of नीग्रो साहित्य '' , as जेम्स weldon जॉनसन पसन्दीदा to कॉल the हार्लेम पुनर्जागरण , थी लगाई between 1924 ( the साल कि अवसर : a जर्नल of नीग्रो जीवन hosted a पार्टी लिये  black writers where many white publishers were in attendance ) and 1929 ( the year of the stock market crash and the beginning of the Great Depression ) .
African States  between 500 bce और  1500 CE
Obelisk at temple  of लक्सर , मिश्र  .
c.  1200 bce  .
अफ़्रीकी नाईट of baguirmi in  full padded armour suit .
The history of Africa begins with the  प्रागितिहास of अफ़्रीकी और the emergence of होमो sapiens in ईस्ट अफ़्रीकी , continuing  into the present as a patchwork of diverse and politically developing nation states .
Some  जल्दी प्रमाण of कृषि in अफ़्रीकी तिथियाँ  from 16,000 BCE , and metallurgy from about 4000 BCE .
The recorded history of early civilization arose in Egypt ,  और बाद in नुबिया , the मग़रिब और the सींग of अफ़्रीकी  .
During the Middle Ages , Islam  स्प्रेड through  the regions .
Crossing the Maghreb  और the सहेल , a प्रमुख बीच of मुस्लिम  culture was Timbuktu .
Some notable pre-colonial states and societies in Africa include the Nok culture , Mali Empire , Ashanti Empire , Kingdom of  mapungubwe , किंगडम of ज्या , किंगडम of saloum , किंगडम of baol , किंगडम of ज़िम्बाब्वे , किंगडम  of Kongo , Ancient Carthage , Numidia , Mauretania , the Aksumite Empire , the Ajuuraan State and the Adal Sultanate .
From the late 15th century , Europeans and Arabs took slaves from West , Central and Southeast Africa  विदेशी in the अफ़्रीकी स्लेव  trade .
European colonization of Africa developed rapidly in the  हाथापाई लिये अफ़्रीकी of the लेट  19th and early 20th centuries .
Following struggles for  स्वतंत्रता in अनेक भाग of the महाद्वीप , as खूब as a weakened यूरोपीय बाद the दूसरी संसार  War ; decolonization took place .
Africa 's  इतिहास रै महरूम चुनौतीपूर्ण लिये शोधकर्ताओं in the फ़ील्ड of अफ़्रीकी  studies because of the scarcity of written sources in large parts of sub-Saharan Africa .
Scholarly techniques such as the  रिकॉर्डिंग of मौखिक इतिहास , ऐतिहासिक भाषाविज्ञान  , archaeology and genetics have been crucial .
curry फोली थी the पहला खिलाड़ी  in Major League Baseball history to hit for the cycle .
In baseball , hitting for the cycle is the accomplishment of one batter hitting a single , a double ,  a ट्रिपल , और a घर चलाएं in the वही खेल .
Collecting the hits in that  अनुक्रम is ज्ञात as a `` प्राकृतिक साईकिल  '' .
Cycles are uncommon in  प्रमुख लीग बेसबॉल ( एमएलबी ) , और have occurred  294 times since the first by Curry Foley in 1882 .
The cycle is roughly as common as a no-hitter ( 279 occurrences in MLB history )  ; it रै महरूम पुकारा `` एक of the rarest '' और `` सबसे मुश्किल feats  '' in baseball .
Based on 2009 offensive levels , the  संभाव्यता of an औसत एमएलबी खिलाड़ी hitting लिये a साईकिल विरूद्ध an औसत टोली in  a game is approximately 0.00590 % ; this corresponds to about 2.5 cycles in a 162-game season with 30 teams .
In other  बेसबॉल लीग ,  the cycle is achieved less frequently .
Through September 4 , 2008 , 62 players in Nippon  पेशेवर बेसबॉल ( npb ) , the top-level बेसबॉल संगठन  in Japan , have hit for the cycle , the most recent being Michihiro Ogasawara .
Two  खिलाड़ी have hit लिये the साईकिल on the वही दिन एकबार in  NPB history ; this has occurred twice in MLB history .
एक npb खिलाड़ी रै भी  hit for the cycle in an NPB All-Star game .
No player has ever hit for the cycle in  the एमएलबी all-star खेल or the postseason  .
The  प्रमुख स्लेव  routes in medieval Africa .
This article  discusses प्रणालियों , इतिहास , और प्रभाव  of slavery within Africa .
See Arab slave trade ,  अटलांटिक स्लेव व्यापार , maafa , और गुलामी in समकालीन  Africa for other discussions .
`` Slave  हस्तांतरण in अफ़्रीकी ''  .
Europeans usually  किया नहीं डालें the  interior regions .
Slavery in Africa has existed  throughout the महाद्वीप लिये अनेक सदियां , और  continues in the current day .
Systems of servitude and  गुलामी यहूद आम in अनेक भाग of the महाद्वीप ,  as they were in much of the ancient world .
In most African  समाजों जहाँ गुलामी थी प्रचलित , the enslaved लोगों  were largely treated as indentured servants and not treated as chattel slaves .
When the Arab slave trade and Atlantic slave trade began , many of the local slave systems changed  और began supplying captives लिये स्लेव बाज़ार  outside of Africa .
Slavery in historical Africa was practiced in many  अलग फ़ॉर्म और कुछ of ये do नहीं clearly अनुरूप the परिभाषाएं  of slavery elsewhere in the world .
Debt slavery , enslavement of war  captives , सैन्य गुलामी , और दण्ड गुलामी यहूद सब practiced  in various parts of Africa .
Although there had been some trans-Saharan trade from the interior of Sub-Saharan Africa to other regions , slavery was a  छोटी भाग of the आर्थिक जीवन of अनेक समाजों in अफ़्रीकी जबतक the परिचय of transcontinental स्लेव ट्रेड ( अरब  and Atlantic ) .
स्लेव practices यहूद again रूपांतरित साथ यूरोपीय colonization of  Africa and the formal abolition of slavery in the early 1900s .
Windows Task Manager is a task manager or System monitor application included  साथ the microsoft खिड़कियाँ nt परिवार of ऑपरेटिंग प्रणालियों कि provides सीमित सूचना परिचय कंप्यूटर प्रदर्शन और कार्यशील अनुप्रयोग , प्रक्रियाओं और cpu उपयोग , कमिट चार्ज और मेमोरी सूचना , संजाल कार्यकलाप और आंकडे , logged-in उपयोक्ता , और प्रणाली सेवाएं ( और as प्रायः is the मामला साथ तन्त्र टूल्स provided  by Microsoft for Windows , 3rd party software is available which fills the requirements more thoroughly , e.g , `` Process Explorer '' , `` Extended Task Manager '' , `` Anvir Task Manager '' , `` Process Hacker '' , and `` System Explorer '' ) .
The Task Manager can also  be प्रयुक्त to नियत प्रक्रम प्राथमिकताएं , प्रोसेसर अपनापन , forcibly terminate  processes , and shut down , restart , hibernate or log off from Windows .
खिड़कियाँ कार्य मैनेजर थी  introduced with Windows NT 4.0 .
Previous versions of Windows NT  शामिल the कार्य सूची अनुप्रयोग , जिससे था  far fewer features .
The task list  थी सक्षम of लिस्टिंग फिलहाल कार्यशील प्रक्रियाओं और हत्या  them , or creating a new process .
In Windows XP only , a Shutdown menu is also  उपस्थित कि allows अभिगम to standby , hibernate , फेरे बंद , restart  , Log Off and Switch User .
Earlier versions of Microsoft Windows (  microsoft खिड़कियाँ 3.x , खिड़कियाँ 95 , खिड़कियाँ 98 ) था a कार्यक्रम ज्ञात as कार्य to प्रदर्शक the  programs currently running .
This file was executed by running the taskman.exe  संचिका इससे the c : \खिड़कीs निर्देशिका  .
The Troop is an American-Canadian  live-action , सिंगल कैमरा कॉमेडी -adventure टेलीविज़न श्रेणी परिचय a तिकड़ी  of teenagers who fight and capture monsters and other supernatural phenomena that invade the fictional town of Lakewood .
Created and  कार्यपालिका उत्पादित by अधिकतम burnett , ग्रेग कूलिज और क्रिस मॉर्गन , the श्रेणी  premiered on Nickelodeon on September 18 , 2009 .
The second season premiered on  जून 25 , 2011 और निकलोडियन रद्द the श्रेणी मिडवे  through it 's second season .
The remaining  एपीसोड of ऋतु 2 यहूद aired on  Nicktoons except the last 3..
Sparsely populated in relation to its area , the Democratic Republic of the Congo ( DRC ) is home to  a विशाल संभावित of प्राकृतिक संसाधन और खनिज माल , इसके untapped जमा of कच्चा खनिज हैं अनुमानित to be लायक in  excess of US $ 24 trillion , yet the economy of the DRC has declined drastically since the mid-1980s .
At the time of its independence in 1960 , DRC was the second most industrialized country in Africa after South Africa ; it boasted a  thriving खनन सेक्टर और इसके कृषि सेक्टर थी अपेक्षाकृत उत्पादक  .
If the viewer stares at this image for 20–60 seconds and  stares at a श्वेत ऑब्जेक्ट , a ऋणात्मक afterimage होगा appear ( in इस मामला  , it will be cyan on magenta ) .
This can also  be हासिल by the दर्शक closing his/her आँखें  and tilting their head up .
An afterimage or ghost image or image burn-in is an optical illusion that refers to an image continuing to  appear in एक 's दृष्टि बाद the एक्सपोज़र to the असली चित्र रै ceased  .
One of the  सबसे आम afterimages is the उज्जवल glow कि seems to फ्लैश  before one 's eyes after looking into a light source for a few seconds .
Closing the eye can help  achieve a बेहतर भाव of the रंग in इसके  own aspect .
Afterimages come in two forms ,  ऋणात्मक ( उलट ) और धनात्मक ( retaining असली रंग  ) .
The process behind positive  afterimages is अनजान , हालांकि विचार  to be related to neural adaptation .
On the other  हाथ , ऋणात्मक afterimages हैं  a retinal phenomenon and are well understood .
Lost is an  अमरीकी सीरियल नाटक टेलीविज़न श्रेणी कि premiered on सितंबर  22 , 2004 on the American Broadcasting Company ( ABC ) .
The series was created by J. J.  abrams और डैमन lindelof , आधारित upon an  original pilot script titled Nowhere written by Jeffrey Lieber .
Six seasons of the show aired ,  in जोड to numerous काटें shows to पूर्वावलोकन  previous episodes .
ABC announced that Lost would end after six seasons , having  उत्पादित a कुल of 121 एपीसोड  .
The series follows the past ,  उपस्थित , और भविष्य अनुभव ( s ) of the survivors of a प्लेन क्रैश on a यात्री जेट , oceanic उड़ान 815  , flying from Sydney to Los Angeles after it crashes on a tropical island in the South Pacific .
The series also  शामिल कहानियां of the जीवनदान of लोगों already जीना on the द्वीप — वे शामिल the `` अन्य `` , जो  initially antagonize the survivors , as well as a group of people who arrive on the freighter Kahana .
Each  एपीसोड typically सुविधाएँ कार्रवाई on the द्वीप as खूब as a द्वितीयक  storyline from another point in a character 's life .
Season 6 features a detailing of the lives of the  survivors in a अलग वास्तविकता , as if the उड़ान था never  crashed .
In the following list , the term `` featured  अक्षर ( s ) '' refers to the अक्षर or वर्ण जो  are featured in the secondary storyline of each episode .
``  No .
in  श्रेणी '' refers to the एपीसोड 's क्रमांक in the  overall series , whereas `` No .
in season  '' refers to the एपीसोड 's क्रमांक in प्रत्येक particular  season .
``  u.S. दर्शक ( लाख ) '' refers  to the number of Americans in millions who watched the episode live .
A total of 121 episodes of Lost were  उत्पादित , the पिछला of जिससे aired on may 23 , 2010  .
All  सीज़न हैं उपलब्धियाँ on dvd in regions  1–4 and on Blu-ray in Regions A and B .
Flat feet ( also called pes planus  or गिरे arches ) is a औपचारिक सन्दर्भ to a चिकित्सा कंडीशन in जिससे the मेहराब of the पैर collapses , साथ the  entire sole of the foot coming into complete or near-complete contact with the ground .
In some individuals ( an estimated 20–30 % of the general population ) the arch  बस never develops in एक पैर ( unilaterally ) or दोनो फीट  ( bilaterally ) .
Three studies ( see citations below in military section ) of military recruits have shown no evidence of later increased injury , or foot problems , due to flat  फीट , in a जनसांख्यिकी of लोगों जो पहुँचें सैन्य सेवा आयु बगैर prior पैर समस्याएं  .
However , these studies can not be used  to न्यायधीश संभावित भविष्य क्षति इससे इस कंडीशन  when diagnosed at younger ages .
They also can not  be लागू to व्यक्तियों जिनकी चपटा फीट हैं संबद्ध साथ पैर लक्षण , or निश्चित लक्षण in अन्य भाग  of the body ( such as the leg or back ) possibly referable to the foot .
पीढी x , commonly abbreviated to gen x , is  the generation born after the Western post-World War II baby boom .
Demographers , historians and commentators use  शुरूआत जनम तिथियाँ इससे the जल्दी 1960s to the जल्दी 1980s  .
The  पद थी popularized by डगलस coupland  's 1991 novel Generation X : Tales for an Accelerated Culture .
Before  कि , it था महरूम प्रयुक्त लिये विभिन्न subcultures or countercultures  after the 1950s .
Pressure ulcers , also known as decubitus ulcers or bedsores , are localized injuries to the skin and/or  underlying ऊतक प्रायः over a बोनी prominence , as a परिणाम of दबाव , or दबाव  in combination with shear and/or friction .
Most commonly this will be the sacrum , coccyx , heels or the  कूल्हों , लकिन अन्य साइट ऐसे as the elbows , अदब ,  ankles or the back of the cranium can be affected .
The cause of pressure  छाले is दबाव लागू to नरम ऊतक so कि  blood flow to the soft tissue is completely or partially obstructed .
Shear is also a cause  ; shear खींचता on रक्त बरतन कि  feed the skin .
Pressure ulcers most commonly  develop in व्यक्तियों जो हैं नहीं चलती परिचय or हैं confined  to wheelchairs .
it is widely believed कि अन्य कारकों can influence the सहिष्णुता  of skin for pressure and shear thereby increasing the risk of pressure ulcer development .
These factors are protein-calorie malnutrition , microclimate ( skin wetness  caused by sweating or incontinence ) , रोगों कि reduce रक्त प्रवाह to the स्किन , ऐसे as arteriosclerosis or रोगों कि reduce the अहसास in the  skin , such as paralysis or neuropathy .
The healing of pressure  छाले may be slowed by the आयु of the व्यक्ति , चिकित्सा शर्तें ( ऐसे as arteriosclerosis  , diabetes or infection ) , smoking or medications such as antiinflammatory drugs .
Although often prevented and treatable  if मिला जल्दी , दबाव छाले can be बहुत मुश्किल to prevent in critically बीमार मरीजों , frail बड़ो , व्हीलचेयर  users ( especially where spinal injury is involved ) and terminally ill patients .
Primary prevention is  to redistribute दबाव by turning the रोगी  regularly .
The  लाभ of turning to avoid further sores  is well documented since at least the 19th century .
In addition to turning and  re-positioning the रोगी in bed or व्हीलचेयर , खाने a संतुलित आहार साथ पर्याप्त  protein and keeping the skin free from exposure to urine and stool is very important .
The prevalence of pressure ulcers in hospital  जमावट is ऊँची , लकिन सुधार हैं होने  made .
According to the 2010 IPUP ( International Pressure Ulcer Prevalence  सर्वेक्षण ) conducted in कनाडा , वहीँ थी a significant घटी in the overall facility-acquired  prevalence of pressure ulcers from 2009-2010 .
Ulcers were most commonly  पहचाना at the sacral/coccyx अल्सर स्थान ; however , एड़ी छाले  were the most common facility-acquired location in the survey .
Overboard is a 1987 American romantic comedy film  अभिनीत goldie hawn और कर्ट रसेल  .
It  थी निर्देशित by गैरी मार्शल  , produced by Roddy McDowell , and loosely inspired by the 1974 Italian film Swept Away .
In turn , Overboard was  adapted into the 2006 दक्षिण कोरियाई  television series , Couple or Trouble .
ग्रीन खाड़ी is a नगर in और the काउंटी सीट of भूरा काउंटी in the u.S.  state of Wisconsin , located at the head of Green Bay , a sub-basin of Lake Michigan , at the mouth of the Fox River .
It has an elevation of above sea  स्तर और is स्तिथ उत्तर  of Milwaukee .
The population was  104,057 at  the 2010 census .
It is the third-largest city in the state of  विस्कॉन्सिन , बाद मिल्वौकी और मैडिसन  .
It is also the third-largest city on the  वेस्ट shore of झील मिशिगन , बाद शिकागो और  Milwaukee .
Green Bay is home to  the ग्रीन खाड़ी पैकर्स of the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग , बनाना it by दूर the smallest महानगर क्षेत्रफल in the यूएसए  to host a major professional sports franchise .
Green Bay is the principal city of the Green Bay Metropolitan  सांख्यिकीय क्षेत्रफल , जिससे कवर भूरा , kewaunee , और oconto काउंटी और था a संयुक्त  population of 282,599 at the 2000 census .
Green Bay is an  औद्योगिक नगर साथ अनेक meatpacking और पेपर पौधे , और a बंदरगाहों on ग्रीन खाड़ी , an भुजा of झील मिशिगन कि  locals call the Bay of Green Bay , to avoid conflating it with the eponymous city .
it is घर to the नेशनल रेलरोड संग्रहालय ; the  Neville Public Museum , with exhibitions of art , history , and science ; and the University of Wisconsin–Green Bay .
Luteinizing hormone ( LH , also known as lutropin and sometimes  lutrophin ) is a हार्मोन उत्पादित by gonadotroph कोशिकाएं in the  anterior pituitary gland .
In females , an  अधि वृद्धि of lh ( `` lh surge '' ) triggers ovulation और विकास  of the corpus luteum .
In males , where LH had also  महरूम पुकारा अंतरालीय cell-stimulating हार्मोन ( icsh ) ,  it stimulates Leydig cell production of testosterone .
It  अधिनियमों synergistically  with FSH .
Selena  quintanilla-pérez ( अप्रैल 16 , 1971 – कूच 31 , 1995 ) , ज्ञात बस  as Selena , was an American singer-songwriter .
She was named the `` top Latin artist of the '90s '' and `` Best selling  लैटिन कलाकार of the दशक '' by बिलबोर्ड लिये उसके चौदह top-ten singles in the शीर्ष लैटिन गीतों चार्ट , सहित सात number-one  hits .
Selena  था the सबसे कामयाब singles of 1994 और  1995 , `` Amor Prohibido `` and `` No Me Queda Más `` .
She was called `` The Queen of Tejano music `` and the  मैक्सिकन समतुल्य of मैडोना .
सेलिना released उसके पहला  album , Selena y Los Dinos , at the age of twelve .
She won Female Vocalist of the Year at the 1987 Tejano  म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार और उतरा a रिकॉर्डिंग अनुबंध  with EMI a few years later .
Her  कीर्ति grew throughout the जल्दी 1990s , विशेषकर in spanish-speaking  countries , and she had begun recording in English as well .
Selena was murdered at the age of 23 on  कूच 31 , 1995 by yolanda saldívar , the पूर्व  president of her fan club .
On April 12 , 1995 , two  सप्ताह बाद उसके मौत , जार्ज W. बुश , राज्यपाल of  Texas at the time , declared her birthday `` Selena Day '' in Texas .
Warner Bros. produced  सेलिना , a फिल्मी आधारित on उसके जीवन अभिनीत जेनिफर लोपेज़ , in  1997 .
Selena 's life was also the basis of the  musical सेलिना forever अभिनीत वेरोनिका vazquez as सेलिना  .
In June 2006 Selena was commemorated with a  life-sized कांस्य प्रतिमा ( mirador de la flor in कॉर्पस christi , टेक्सास  ) and a Selena museum opened there .
She has sold over 60 million albums  विश्वव्यापी , बनाना उसके एक of the best-selling  artists of all time .
She is also the only female artist to have five  एल्बम in u.s . बिलबोर्ड 200 at the वही  time .
German  stahlhelm इससे  World War II
Insignia of the  bolivian फौज colorados रेजीमेंट , प्रर्दशित a stahlhelm  and two crossed bayonets
Stahlhelm  ( बहुवचन ,  Stahlhelme ) is German for `` steel helmet '' .
The Imperial German Army began to replace the traditional  boiled-leather pickelhaube ( spiked कॉम्बैट  helmet ) with the Stahlhelm during World War I in 1916 .
the पद stahlhelm refers दोनो to a जेनेरिक स्टील हेल्मेट , और अधिक  specifically to the distinctive ( and iconic ) German design .
The Stahlhelm , with its distinctive ``  कोयले scuttle `` आकार , थी an तुरन्त recognizable प्रतीक लिये सैन्य imagery और became a आम तत्व of  military propaganda on both sides , just like the Pickelhaube before it .
Its name was also used by the Stahlhelm , a paramilitary nationalist  संगठन स्थापित at the समाप्त of 1918  .
glow-in-the-dark  may refer to:
जीवदीप्ति , the उत्पादन  and emission of light by a living organism
Chemiluminescence , is the  उत्सर्जन of लाइट ( संदीप्ति  ) without emission of heat
Phosphorescence ,  a विशिष्ट प्रकार of photoluminescence  related to fluorescence
Radioluminescence  , उत्पादन of संदीप्ति in a  material by the bombardment of ionizing radiation
glow in the अंधेरा दौरे , a 2008 कॉन्सर्ट  tour by Kanye West
Frankfurt Airport  serves as a हब नगर लिये लुफ़्थान्सा और receives  flights from Star Alliance carriers .
Airline hubs  हैं एयरपोर्ट क्रमित as विशाल , मीडियम , छोटी , और non-hubs as एक of the faa विमानक्षेत्र श्रेणी जिससे  are re-evaluated every year based on number of commercial passengers .
The more common but informal use for the phrase airline hub is an airport that an  एयरलाइन उपयोग as a ट्रांसफ़र पाइंट to मिलेंगी यात्री to उनके  intended destination .
It is part of a hub and spoke model , where travelers  चलती between एयरपोर्ट नहीं परोसा by सीधा फ़्लाइट बदलें planes  en route to their destinations .
This  is as opposed to the पाइंट to  Point model .
Many hubs  of the एयरलाइंस हैं भी situated at  airports in the cities of the respective head offices .
Some airlines may use only a single  हब , जबकि अन्य एयरलाइंस उपयोग अनेक  hubs .
Hubs  हैं प्रयुक्त लिये दोनो यात्री फ़्लाइट as  well as cargo flights .
Many  एयरलाइंस भी उपयोग फ़ोकस  cities , which function much the same as hubs .
Airlines may also use secondary  hubs , a non-technical पद  for large focus cities .
A hub in the middle of a route is more effective than at either end as  connecting ट्रैफ़िक अधिक easily भरता the प्लेन - यात्री prefer a one-stop ( two-leg ) रूट over a two-stop  ( three-leg ) route .
Hollow  lacedaemon  .
Site of the  menelaion , the shrine to हेलेन और menelaus constructed anciently in the कांस्य  Age city that stood on the hill of Therapne on the left bank of the Eurotas River overlooking the future site of Dorian Sparta .
Across the valley the  successive ridges of माउंट taygetus हैं in  evidence .
स्पार्टा ( doric यूनानी : ; अटारी यूनानी : ) , or lacedaemon , थी a prominent city-state  in ancient Greece , situated on the banks of the Eurotas River in Laconia , in south-eastern Peloponnese .
it उभरा as a राजनैतिक एंटिटी around the 10th सदी bc ,  when the invading Dorians subjugated the local , non-Dorian population .
Around 650 BC , it rose to  become the प्रबल सैन्य land-power in प्राचीन  Greece .
Given its military pre-eminence , Sparta was recognized as  the overall नेता of the संयुक्त यूनानी शक्तियां दौरान the greco-persian  Wars .
Between 431 and 404 BC , Sparta was the principal enemy of  एथेंस दौरान the peloponnesian युद्ध , इससे जिससे it उभरा विजयी , हालांकि  at great cost .
Sparta 's defeat by Thebes in the Battle of Leuctra in 371 BC  ended स्पार्टा 's prominent भूमिका  in Greece .
However , it maintained  इसके राजनैतिक स्वतंत्रता जबतक the रोमन conquest  of Greece in 146 BC .
It then underwent a  long काल of मनाही , विशेषकर  in the Middle Ages , when many Spartans moved to live in Mystras .
Modern Sparta is the capital  of the यूनानी क्षेत्रीय ईकाई of laconia और a बीच  for the processing of goods such as citrus and olives .
Sparta was unique in ancient  यूनानियों लिये इसके सोशल प्रणाली और संविधान , जिससे completely केन्द्रित  on military training and excellence .
इसके निवासियों यहूद वर्गीकृत as spartiates ( spartan  citizens , who enjoyed full rights ) , Mothakes ( non-Spartan free men raised as Spartans ) , Perioikoi ( freedmen ) , and Helots ( state-owned serfs , enslaved non-Spartan local population ) .
Spartiates underwent the rigorous agoge training  और शिक्षा regimen , और spartan phalanges यहूद widely  considered to be among the best in battle .
Spartan women enjoyed considerably more rights and equality  to मेन than elsewhere in the शास्त्रीय  world .
Sparta was the subject of fascination  in इसके अपना दिन , as खूब as in the वेस्ट following the पुनरुद्धार  of classical learning .
This love or admiration of Sparta  is ज्ञात as laconism or laconophilia  .
Fantasy football is an interactive competition  in जिससे उपयोक्ता compete विरूद्ध प्रत्येक अन्य as सामान्य प्रबंधक  of virtual teams .
The players that an  व्यक्तिगत is समर्थ to मैनेज हैं पेशेवर अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल खिलाड़ी in the नेशनल  Football League .
The different actions people are  समर्थ to मेक हैं drafting , व्यापार , adding  or dropping players , and changing rosters .
Due to the growth of the Internet , Fantasy football has vastly increased in popularity ,  विशेषकर क्युकी काल्पनिक फ़ुटबॉल प्रदाताओं ऐसे as ईएसपीएन , याहू , सीबीएस , और the एनएफएल itself हैं समर्थ to रखना track of आंकडे entirely ऑनलाइन , eliminating  the need to check box scores and newspapers regularly to keep track of players .
सबसे लीग have a सिंगल सप्ताह चैंपियनशिप  in Week 16 of the NFL season .
World population estimates from 1800 to 2100 , based on UN 2010  projections ( रेड , नारंगी , ग्रीन ) और us जनसांख्यिकी ब्यूरो ऐतिहासिक estimates ( ब्लैक ) .
Actual  अंकित जनसांख्यिकी आंकड़े हैं in  blue .
According to the highest estimate , the world population may rise to 16  अरब by 2100 ; according to the न्यूनतम अनुमान , it may  decline to 6 billion .
The  संसार जनसांख्यिकी  is the total number of living humans on Earth .
As of today  , it is अनुमानित to क्रमांक अरब by the संयुक्त राज्य जनसांख्यिकी  Bureau ( USCB ) .
The USCB estimates that the world  जनसांख्यिकी exceeded 7 अरब on कूच  12 , 2012 .
According to a separate  अनुमान by the संयुक्त राष्ट्र जनसांख्यिकी  Fund , it reached this milestone on October 31 , 2011 .
The world  जनसांख्यिकी रै अनुभवी निरन्तर विकास चूंकि the समाप्त of the ग्रेट अकाल  and the Black Death in 1350 , when it stood at around 370 million .
The highest rates of growth – global population  increases ऊपर 1.8 % प्रति साल – यहूद देखी briefly दौरान the 1950s , और लिये a longer  period during the 1960s and 1970s .
The  विकास रेट peaked at 2.2 % in  1963 , and had declined to 1.1 % by 2011 .
Total annual births were highest in the late 1980s at about 138 million  , और हैं अभी अपेक्षित to remain essentially निरंतर at उनके 2011 स्तर of 134 लाख , जबकि मौतों क्रमांक 56 लाख  per year , and are expected to increase to 80 million per year by 2040 .
Current projections show a continued increase in population in the  निकट भविष्य ( लकिन a स्थिर मनाही in the जनसांख्यिकी विकास रेट ) , साथ the वैश्विक जनसांख्यिकी  expected to reach between 7.5 and 10.5 billion by 2050 .
विभिन्न longer-term estimates भविष्यवाणी further विकास , stagnation ,  or even overall decline in the global population by 2150 .
Some analysts have questioned the sustainability of further world population growth  , citing the growing pressures on the पर्यावरण , वैश्विक खाना आपूर्तियाँ , और उर्जा  resources .
skeletal मांसपेशियां  homo sapiens
This is a  तालिका of मांसपेशियां of the  human anatomy .
There are approximately 642 skeletal muscles within the  ठेठ इंसान , और लगभग प्रत्येक मांसपेशी constitutes एक भाग of a  pair of identical bilateral muscles , found on both sides , resulting in approximately 320 pairs of muscles , as presented in this article .
Nevertheless , the exact number is  मुश्किल to define क्युकी अलग स्त्रोत समूह मांसपेशियां differently  , e.g . regarding what is defined as different parts of a single muscle or as several muscles .
Examples range  इससे 640 to 850  .
The muscles  of the इंसान देह can be categorized into a क्रमांक of समूह जिससे शामिल मांसपेशियां relating to the सिर और गर्दन , मांसपेशियां  of the torso or trunk , muscles of the upper limbs , and muscles of the lower limbs .
The action refers to the action of each  मांसपेशी इससे the मानक anatomical स्थिति  .
In  अन्य स्थितियाँ , अन्य क्रियाएँ  may be performed .
A gold bar is a  मात्रा of परिष्कृत धात्विक सुनहरा of कोई आकार कि is बना by a बार  producer meeting standard conditions of manufacture , labeling , and record keeping .
Larger gold bars that are produced by  pouring the molten मेटल into molds हैं  called ingots .
Smaller bars may be manufactured by minting or  stamping इससे appropriately लिपटे सुनहरा चादरें  .
The standard gold  बार आयोजित as सुनहरा reserves by सेंट्रल बैंको और traded among bullion डीलर is the  400-troy-ounce ( 12.4 kg or 438.9 ounces ) Good Delivery gold bar .
The kilobar , which  is to कह 1000 गामा in द्रव्यमान , is the बार कि is अधिक manageable और is प्रयुक्त  extensively for trading and investment .
The premium on these bars when traded is very low over the spot value of  the सुनहरा बनाना it आदर्श लिये छोटी हस्तांतरण between बैंको और  traders .
Most kilobars are flat , although some  निवेशकों , विशेषकर in यूरोपीय , prefer the  brick shape .
Elisha Archibald `` Archie '' Manning III ( born May 19 , 1949 ) is a former American football quarterback in the  नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग , playing लिये the नई ऑरलियन्स संतो इससे 1971 to 1982 , तब लिये the ह्यूस्टन  Oilers and Minnesota Vikings .
He is the father of current Denver Broncos quarterback Peyton Manning , current New York Giants  starting क्वार्टरबैक एली मैनिंग , और पूर्व ओले मिस receiver कूपर मैनिंग  .
Advocacy is a  राजनैतिक प्रक्रम by an व्यक्तिगत or समूह जिससे aims to influence public-policy  and resource allocation decisions within political , economic , and social systems and institutions .
Advocacy can include many activities that a person or organization undertakes including media campaigns , public speaking  , commissioning और प्रकाशन शोध or पोल or the दाखिल  of an amicus brief .
Lobbying ( often by lobby groups ) is a form of advocacy where a  सीधा दृष्टिकोण is बना to विधायक on an समस्या जिससे plays a significant भूमिका in  modern politics .
Research is beginning to explore how advocacy groups in the U.S. and  कनाडा हैं using सोशल मीडिया to सुकर नागरिक सगाई और सामूहिक  action .
The flag of Mexico ( Spanish : Bandera de México ) is a vertical tricolor of green , white , and red with the  नेशनल कोट of बाहें चार्ज in the बीच of the श्वेत  stripe .
While the meaning of the colors has changed over  समय , ये तीन रंगों यहूद अपनाया by मैक्सिको following स्वतंत्रता इससे स्पेन दौरान the देश 's  War of Independence , and subsequent First Mexican Empire .
The current flag was adopted in 1968 , but the overall design has  महरूम प्रयुक्त चूंकि 1821 , जब the पहला नेशनल  Flag was created .
the वर्तमान विधि of नेशनल प्रतीकों , विधि on the नेशनल बाहें , ध्वज ,  and Anthem , that governs the use of the national flag has been in place since 1984 .
Red , white , and green are the  रंगों of the नेशनल मुक्ति  army in Mexico .
The central emblem is the  एज़टेक pictogram लिये tenochtitlan ( अभी  Mexico City ) , the center of their empire .
It recalls the legend that inspired the Aztecs to settle on  कया थी originally a lake-island  .
The form of the coat of arms was most  recently संशोधित in 1968  .
A ribbon in  the नेशनल रंगों is at the  bottom of the coat of arms .
Throughout  इतिहास , the ध्वज रै बदला चार टाइम्स , as the डिज़ाइन of the  coat of arms and the length-width ratios of the flag have been modified .
However , the coat of arms has had the same features throughout : an eagle , holding a serpent in its talon , is  perched on शीर्ष of a prickly नाशपाती कैक्टस ; the कैक्टस is situated on a चट्टान कि उदय ऊपर a झील  .
The coat of arms  is निकला इससे an एज़टेक लेजेंड कि उनके देवताओं बताई उन्हें to निर्माण a नगर जहाँ वे स्पॉट an  eagle on a nopal eating a serpent , which is now Mexico City .
The current national flag , the Fourth National Flag , is also used  as the मैक्सिकन नवल ensign by जहाजों पंजीकृत in मैक्सिको .
A destination marketing organization or convention and visitor bureau promotes a town  , नगर , प्रदेश , or देश in अनुक्रम to बढ़ाएँ  the number of visitors .
It promotes the development and marketing of a destination , focusing  on सम्मेलन बिक्री , पर्यटन विपणन , और सेवाएं  .
Such organizations promote economic development of a destination by increasing visits  इससे पर्यटकों और कारोबार travelers , जिससे generates overnight आवास लिये a गंतव्य , विज़िट to रेस्तरां , और खरीदारी  revenues .
Convention and visitor bureaus are the most important tourism marketing  संगठन in उनके संबंधित पर्यटक गंतव्यों , as वे हैं सीधे जिम्मेदार लिये विपणन  the destination brand through travel and tourism `` product awareness '' to visitors .
DMOs produce billions of dollars in  सीधा और अप्रत्यक्ष आय और कर लिये उनके गंतव्यों ' economies  with their marketing and sales expertise .
Destination marketing organizations are often  पुकारा सफर , सम्मेलन , विज़िटर , or पर्यटन bureaux  , welcome centers , information centers and more .
Regardless of  the नाम , ये संगठन प्रस्ताव अनेक सेवाएं  to the traveling public .
The elk or wapiti ( Cervus canadensis )  is एक of the largest प्रजाति of हिरण in the संसार , और एक of the largest जमीन स्तनधारियों  in North America and eastern Asia .
It was long believed to be a  subspecies of the यूरोपीय रेड हिरण ( cervus elaphus ) , लकिन प्रमाण इससे a  2004 study of the mitochondrial DNA indicates that the two are distinct species .
This animal should not be confused with  the larger मूस ( alces alces )  , to which the name `` elk '' applies in Eurasia .
Apart from the  मूस , the तभी अन्य सदस्य of the हिरण  family to rival the elk in size is the south Asian sambar ( Rusa unicolor ) .
Elk  दायरा in वन और forest-edge आवास , feeding on grasses , पौधे  , leaves , and bark .
Although native to North America and eastern  एशिया , वे have adapted खूब to देशों जहाँ वे have महरूम introduced , सहित अर्जेंटीना  , Australia , and New Zealand .
Their great adaptability may threaten  endemic प्रजाति और ecosystems into जिससे वे  have been introduced .
Male elk  have विशाल antlers जिससे हैं शेड प्रत्येक  year .
Males also  engage in ritualized समागम व्यवहार दौरान the rut , सहित posturing , antler कुश्ती ( sparring ) , और bugling , a लाउड  series of vocalizations which establishes dominance over other males and attracts females .
Elk  हैं susceptible to a क्रमांक of  infectious diseases , some of which can be transmitted to livestock .
Efforts to eliminate infectious diseases  इससे नीलगाय populations , largely through टीकाकरण ,  have had mixed success .
Some cultures revere  the नीलगाय as a आध्यात्मिक फ़ोर्स  .
In parts of Asia ,  antlers और उनके मखमल हैं प्रयुक्त  in traditional medicines .
Elk are hunted as a game species ;  the मांस is leaner और उच्चतर in प्रोटीन than  beef or chicken .
The George Washington University ( GW , GWU , or George Washington ) is a comprehensive private ,  coeducational शोध विश्वविद्यालयों स्तिथ in वॉशिंगटन , d.C.  .
It awards certificates , Bachelor  डिग्री , मास्टर्स डिग्री , और phds  across several dozen disciplines .
The university was chartered by an Act of Congress on February 9 ,  1821 as the columbian कॉलेज in the  District of Columbia .
The lion ( Panthera leo ) is one  of the चार बिग बिल्लियों in the genus पेंथेरा और a सदस्य  of the family Felidae .
With some males exceeding in weight ,  it is the second-largest जीना बिल्ली बाद  the tiger .
Wild lions currently exist in sub-Saharan Africa and in Asia ( where an endangered remnant population resides in  गिर वन नेशनल पार्क in इण्डिया ) जबकि अन्य प्रकार of शेर have disappeared इससे उत्तर अफ़्रीकी और दक्षिणपश्चिम एशिया in ऐतिहासिक  times .
Until the late Pleistocene , about 10,000 years ago ,  the शेर थी the सबसे फैली विशाल जमीन स्तनधारी बाद  humans .
They were found in most of Africa , across Eurasia from western Europe to India , and in the  americas इससे the yukon  to Peru .
The lion  is a vulnerable प्रजाति , having देखी a प्रमुख जनसांख्यिकी मनाही  of 30–50 % over the past two decades in its African range .
Lion populations are untenable  बाहर designated reserves और नेशनल  parks .
Although the cause of the decline is not fully  समझा , आवास घाटा और विरोध साथ इंसानो हैं फिलहाल the महानतम कल्याणकारी  of concern .
Within Africa , the West  अफ़्रीकी शेर जनसांख्यिकी is विशेषकर  endangered .
Lions live for 10–14 years  in the जंगली , जबकि in captivity वे can  live longer than 20 years .
In the wild , males seldom live longer than 10  सालो , as चोटों sustained इससे continual लड़  with rival males greatly reduce their longevity .
They typically  inhabit सवाना और घासभूमि , हालांकि  they may take to bush and forest .
Lions are unusually  सोशल compared to अन्य  cats .
A pride of lions consists of related females and  औलाद और a छोटी क्रमांक of वयस्क males  .
Groups of female lions  typically हंट साथ , preying  mostly on large ungulates .
Lions are apex and keystone  परभक्षी , हालांकि वे scavenge as अवसर  allows .
While  शेर do नहीं typically हंट इंसानो , कुछ have  been known to do so .
Sleeping mainly during the day , lions are primarily nocturnal ,  हालांकि bordering on crepuscular  in nature .
Highly distinctive , the male lion is  easily recognised by इसके माने , और इसके फेस is एक  of the most widely recognised animal symbols in human culture .
Depictions have existed from the Upper Paleolithic period , with carvings and paintings from the Lascaux and Chauvet Caves , through virtually  सब प्राचीन और मध्यकालीन संस्कृतियों जहाँ वे एकबार occurred  .
It has been extensively depicted in  sculptures , in paintings , on नेशनल  flags , and in contemporary films and literature .
शेर have महरूम रखा in menageries चूंकि the समय of the रोमन साम्राज्य , और  have been a key species sought for exhibition in zoos over the world since the late 18th century .
zoos हैं cooperating विश्वव्यापी  in breeding programs for the endangered Asiatic subspecies .
In the history  of वीडियो खेल , the सातवाँ पीढी of consoles is the पिछला पीढी  , and includes consoles released since late by Nintendo , Microsoft , and Sony .
For home consoles , the seventh generation began on  22 नवम्बर 2005 साथ the रिलीज of एक्सबॉक्स 360 और जारी साथ the रिलीज of प्लेस्टेशन 3 on 11 नवम्बर  2006 , and Wii on 19 November 2006 .
Each new  कंसोल introduced a नई प्रकार of भेदन  in technology .
The Xbox 360 offered games rendered natively at HD resolutions , the PlayStation 3 offered , in addition to FHD gaming , HD  फिल्म प्लेबैक via a built-in 3d blu-ray डिस्क खिलाड़ी , और the वी केन्द्रित on integrating परिरक्षक साथ  movement sensors as well as joysticks .
joining निन्टेंडो in  the motion market , Sony released the PlayStation Move in September 2010 .
The  प्लेस्टेशन मूव सुविधाएँ गति संवेदन  gaming , similar to that of the Wii .
microsoft भी joined सोनी और निन्टेंडो  , with its Kinect .
Unlike the other two systems ( PlayStation  3 और वी ) , kinect करता नहीं उपयोग कोई परिरक्षक  of any sort and makes the users the `` controller . ''
Having sold 8 million units in  इसके पहला 60 दिनों on the मार्केट , kinect रै claimed the गिनीज संसार रिकार्ड of होने  the `` fastest selling consumer electronics device '' .
While the Xbox 360 offers wired  परिरक्षक as a स्टैंडअलोन उत्पाद , सब प्लेस्टेशन 3 परिरक्षक can  be used in wired and wireless configurations .
Starting with handheld consoles , the seventh generation  began on 21 नवम्बर 2004 साथ the उत्तर अमरीकी परिचय of the निन्टेंडो ds as a `` तीसरा pillar  '' , alongside Nintendo 's existing Game Boy Advance and GameCube consoles .
The Nintendo DS ( NDS ) features a touch screen and  built-in माइक्रोफोन , और supports बेतार आईईईई  802.11 ( Wi-Fi ) standards .
Additionally , the revised version of the NDS , the DSi , features  दो निर्मित in कैमरे , the क्षमता to डाउनलोड खेल इससे the dsi  store , and a web browser .
The PlayStation Portable , or PSP , released later the same year  on 12 दिसम्बर 2004 , followed a  different pattern .
It became  the पहला हैंडहेल्ड वीडियो खेल कंसोल to उपयोग an ऑप्टिकल डिस्क स्वरूप  , Universal Media Disc ( UMD ) , as its primary storage media .
Sony also gave the PSP robust  multi-media काबिलियत , कनेक्टिविटी साथ the प्लेस्टेशन 3 और अन्य psps  , and Internet connectivity .
the निन्टेंडो ds likewise रै कनेक्टिविटी to the अंतरजाल through the निन्टेंडो wi-fi कनेक्शन और निन्टेंडो  DS Browser , as well as wireless connectivity to other DS systems and Wii consoles .
Despite high sales numbers for both consoles , PlayStation Portable sales have consistently lagged behind those of the Nintendo DS ;  nevertheless , the प्लेस्टेशन पोर्टेबल रै the भेद of होने the best-selling non-nintendo हैंडहेल्ड गेमिंग  system .
Sgt . Pepper 's Lonely Hearts Club Band ( often shortened to Sgt . Pepper ) is the  आठवीं स्टुडियो एल्बम by अंग्रेज़ी  rock band the Beatles .
Released in June  1967 , the एल्बम शामिल गीतों ऐसे as `` साथ a छोटी सहायता  from My Friends `` , `` Lucy in the Sky with Diamonds `` , and `` A Day in the Life `` .
Continuing the artistic maturation seen on the band 's album Revolver ( 1966 ) , Sgt . Pepper further  रजि इससे the conventional पॉप चट्टान मुहावरा of the समय और incorporated balladry , साइकेडेलिक , म्यूज़िक हॉल  , and symphonic influences .
During  the sgt . pepper सत्र , the समूह improved upon the विशेषता of उनके म्यूज़िक 's उत्पादन  while exploring experimental recording techniques .
Producer George Martin 's  अभिनव दृष्टिकोण शामिल the उपयोग  of an orchestra .
Widely acclaimed and imitated , the album cover , designed by English pop artists Peter Blake and Jann Haworth , was  प्रेरित by a स्केच by पॉल mccartney कि चित्रित the बैंड पोज़ in सामने of a कोलाज of कुछ of उनके  favourite celebrities .
Sgt .  pepper थी a विश्वव्यापी नाजुक और वाणिज्यिक कामयाबी , बिता 27 सप्ताह at the शीर्ष of the  UK Album Chart and 15 weeks at number one on the US Billboard 200 .
A seminal work in the emerging psychedelic  चट्टान स्टाइल , the एल्बम थी critically acclaimed upon रिलीज और जीती चार  Grammy Awards in 1968 .
With an estimated 32  लाख नक़ल बेची , it is एक of the संसार 's  best selling albums .
Sgt . Pepper is considered by many to be the most influential and  प्रसिद्ध चट्टान एल्बम कभी , और रै महरूम नामित the महानतम एल्बम of सब समय by दोनो सब  Time Top 1000 Albums and Rolling Stone .
The temporal lobe is a region of the cerebral cortex that  is स्तिथ beneath the पार्श्ववर्ती फिशर on दोनो दिमागी  hemispheres of the mammalian brain .
The temporal lobes are involved in the retention of visual memories , processing sensory input ,  comprehending भाषा , storing नई यादें , जज्बात , और deriving  meaning .
The human  फेफड़े हैं the अंगों of श्वसन  in humans .
Humans have two  फेफड़े , a सही फेफड़ों  and a left lung .
The right lung  consists of तीन निर्मोक जबकि the बाएँ फेफड़ों is थोड़ा छोटी consisting of तभी दो निर्मोक ( the बाएँ फेफड़ों रै a `` हृदय  notch '' allowing space for the heart within the chest ) .
Together , the lungs contain approximately of airways and 300 to 500 million alveoli , having a  कुल सतह क्षेत्रफल of परिचय ( ) in वयस्कों — roughly the वही क्षेत्रफल as  one side of a tennis court .
Furthermore , if all  of the capillaries कि घेर the  alveoli were unwound and laid end to end , they would extend for about .
Each lung  weighs , इसलिए बनाना  the entire organ about .
इंसान फेफड़े
The trachea  divides into दो bronchi ( एक लिये प्रत्येक पक्ष ) at  the level of T4 .
This junction is also  ज्ञात as the carina  .
The conducting zone contains the trachea , the  bronchi , the bronchioles , और the टर्मिनल bronchioles the respiratory मण्डल  contains the respiratory bronchioles , the alveolar ducts , and the alveoli .
The conducting zone and the respiratory  stuffers ( लकिन नहीं the alveoli ) हैं बना  up of airways .
The  conducting मण्डल रै no गैस एक्सचेंज साथ the रक्त , और is  reinforced with cartilage in order to hold open the airways .
The conducting zone warms the  एयर to और humidifies the  air .
It  भी cleanses the एयर by निकालना अणु via cilia स्तिथ  on the walls of all the passageways .
The lungs  हैं घिरी by the  rib cage .
The respiratory zone is  the साईट of गैस एक्सचेंज  with blood .
the सहानुभूतिपूर्ण बेचैन प्रणाली via noradrenaline एक्टिंग on  the beta receptors causes bronchodilation .
The  parasympathetic बेचैन प्रणाली via acetylcholine , जिससे  acts on the M-3 muscarinic receptors , maintains the resting tone of the bronchiolar smooth muscle .
This action is related ,  हालांकि माना पृथक इससे bronchoconstriction  .
Many other non-autonomic nervous  और biochemical stimuli , सहित कार्बन डाइऑक्साइड और ऑक्सीजन , हैं भी  involved in the regulation process .
The pleural cavity is the  संभावित स्पेस between the parietal pleura , अस्तर the भीतरी वॉल of the thoracic पिंजरा , और  the visceral pleura lining the lungs .
The lung parenchyma is strictly used to refer solely to alveolar tissue with  respiratory bronchioles , alveolar नलिकाएं और टर्मिनल bronchioles  .
However , it  प्रायः शामिल कोई रूप of फेफड़ों ऊतक , भी सहित bronchioles , bronchi  , blood vessels and lung interstitium .
The  मार्गरिटा is a मैक्सिकन कॉकटेल consisting of टकीला मिश्रित साथ cointreau or समान  orange -flavoured liqueur and lime or lemon juice , often served with salt on the glass rim .
It is  the सबसे आम tequila-based  cocktail in the United States .
The drink is served shaken with ice ( on the rocks ) ,  blended साथ बर्फ ( frozen मार्गरिटा ) , or बगैर बर्फ ( सीधा up ) .
Two bottles of red Burgundy wine  इससे gevrey-chambertin , côtes  de Nuits
Burgundy is a dark red color  संबद्ध साथ the बरगंडी वाइन of the वही नाम , जिससे in फेरे is नामित बाद  the Burgundy region of France .
The color burgundy is similar to other  शेड्स of अंधेरा रेड ऐसे as मैरून  .
When referring to the color ,  `` बरगंडी '' is प्रायः नहीं capitalized  .
The first recorded use of ``  बरगंडी '' as a रंग नाम in अंग्रेज़ी थी  in 1881 .
Grave of an  अनजान अंग्रेजों सिपाही , मारे  in 1943 during the Battle of Leros .
Because his  पहचान is अनजान , he is  missing in action .
Grave of an unknown American  सिपाही in oise-aisne कब्रिस्तान  .
मारे in  1917
Grave of an unknown  छत्रसेना , मारे in the बैटल of arnhem  , 1944 .
photographed in अप्रैल  1945
Graves of 11 unknown British soldiers killed  दौरान संसार युद्ध ii , in rhodes cwgc  war cemetery
Wall crypts containing remains of  अनजान इतालवी सैनिको मारे  during World War II , in a Rhodes cemetery
Some of the 72,000 names  inscribed on the thiepval मेमोरियल to the लापता of  the Somme
क़ब्रों of अनजान फ्रेंच सैनिको  killed during World War One .
प्रत्येक कंक्रीट क्रॉस रै a मेटल  plaque bearing the word `` Inconnu '' i.e . `` Unknown ''
Ossuary at the Gallipoli battlefield , containing the remains  of 3000 unidentified फ्रेंच सैनिको जो died in 1915
Graves of unknown  eritrean ascaris मारे in 1941  during the Battle of Keren
Missing in action ( MIA ) is a  casualty श्रेणी आबंटित अंतर्गत the औकात of लापता  to armed services personnel who are reported missing during active service .
They may have been killed ,  wounded , become a कैदी of युद्ध  , or deserted .
If deceased , neither their remains  nor संगीन can be positively पहचाना  .
Becoming MIA has been an occupational  रिस्क लिये सेवा कर्मियों लिये as long as वहीँ रै महरूम warfare  .
Chamber of  कॉमर्स भवन  in Center .
This building is the  असली कारावास , निर्मित साथ  with the Historic Courthouse .
Both sit on the  कस्बा वर्गाकार .
the रिओ  Theater in Center
First Baptist Church at 117  कोरा गली in बीच is स्तिथ अगला to the शहर  section .
First Christian Church at 124 Cora Street in  बीच is एक of the oldest congregations  in the community .
Center is a city in Shelby  काउंटी , टेक्सास , संयुक्त राज्य  .
the जनसांख्यिकी थी 5,193  at the 2010 census .
it is the काउंटी  seat of Shelby County .
It is named for its location near the  बीच of शेल्बी काउंटी , नहीं लिये इसके  location in Texas as it is located near the Louisiana border .
Intense  red-eye प्रभाव in ब्लू आँखें  with dilated pupil
The red-eye effect in  छायाचित्र is the आम रूप of रेड विद्यार्थियों in रंग  photographs of eyes .
It occurs when using a photographic flash very close to the camera lens  ( as साथ सबसे कॉम्पैक्ट कैमरे ) , in परिवेश कम लाइट  .
The  प्रभाव appears in the आँखें of इंसानो और पशु  that have tapetum lucidum .
Theatrical followspot operators , positioned  nearly coincidentally साथ a बहुत उज्जवल लाइट और somewhat दूर  from the actors , occasionally witness red-eye in actors on stage .
The effect is not visible to the rest  of the दर्शक क्युकी it is reliant on the बहुत छोटी कोण  between the followspot operator and the light .
The University of  कैलिफ़ोर्निया , सांता बारबरा ( commonly referred to as uc सांता बारबरा or ucsb  ) is a public research university and one of the ten general campuses of the University of California system .
The main campus  is स्तिथ on a साईट in goleta , कैलिफ़ोर्निया , संयुक्त राज्य , इससे सांता  Barbara and northwest of Los Angeles .
ट्रेसिंग इसके जड़ें वापस to 1891 as an स्वतंत्र शिक्षक  ' college , UCSB joined the University of California system in 1944 and is the third-oldest general-education campus in the system .
UCSB is one of America 's Public Ivy universities , which recognizes  शीर्ष पब्लिक शोध विश्वविद्यालयों in the  United States .
The university is  a व्यापक डॉक्टरेट विश्वविद्यालयों और is व्यवस्थित into  five colleges and schools offering 87 undergraduate degrees and 55 graduate degrees .
The campus is the 6th-largest  in the uc प्रणाली by नामांकन साथ 18,977 undergraduate  and 2,950 graduate students .
In 2012 , UCSB was ranked  41st among `` नेशनल विश्वविद्यालयों  '' and 10th among public universities by U.S. News & World Report .
The university was also ranked  35th विश्वव्यापी by the टाइम्स उच्चतर शिक्षा संसार विश्वविद्यालयों rankings और 34th विश्वव्यापी ( 6th विश्वव्यापी लिये अभियान्त्रिकी ) by  the Academic Ranking of World Universities in 2012. < ref name= '' Shanghairanking.com/FieldENG2012 '' >
UC Santa Barbara is a `` very high activity '' research university and spent  $ 191.2 लाख on शोध expenditures in the 2007 फिस्कल साल , 97th-largest  in the United States .
UCSB houses twelve  नेशनल शोध centers , सहित  the renowned Kavli Institute for Theoretical Physics .
UCSB faculty includes five Nobel Prize laureates , one Fields Medalist , 29 members of the  नेशनल अकादमी of sciences , 27 सदस्यों of the नेशनल अकादमी of अभियान्त्रिकी , और 31 सदस्यों of  the American Academy of Arts and Sciences .
UCSB was the No . 3 host on the ARPAnet and was elected to the  संघ of अमरीकी विश्वविद्यालयों in 1995 .
The UC Santa  बारबरा gauchos compete in  the NCAA Division I Big West Conference .
The Gauchos have won NCAA national  championships in मेन 's सॉकर और मेन  's water polo .
Saint Joseph with the  शिशु यीशु by guido reni
Saint Joseph 's Day , March 19 , the  feast of st. जोसेफ is in पश्चिमी christianity the प्रिंसिपल feast दिन of संत  Joseph , Spouse of the Blessed Virgin Mary .
He is also the  step-father of यीशु of नासरत  /Jesus Christ .
It has the rank of a solemnity in the Roman Catholic Church ;  catholics जो follow the missal of 1962 celebrate  it as a first class feast .
Previous to 1962 it was celebrated as a  feast of the रैंक of दोगुना of  the first class .
It is a feast or commemoration in the  प्रांतों of the anglican नियाज़  , and a feast or festival in the Lutheran Church .
Saint Joseph 's Day is the Patronal Feast day for  कैंडल as खूब as लिये कनाडा , व्यक्तियों नामित जोसेफ , josephine , etc. , लिये धार्मिक संस्थान , स्कूलों और parishes bearing उसके नाम  , and for carpenters .
It is also  पिता 's दिन in कुछ कैथोलिक देशों ,  mainly Spain , Portugal , and Italy .
कूच 19 थी समर्पित to संत जोसेफ in अनेक  Western calendars by the tenth century , and this custom was established in Rome by 1479 .
Pope St. Pius V extended  इसके उपयोग to the संपूर्ण रोमन रीति by उसके अपोस्टोलिक  Constitution Quo Primum ( July 14 , 1570 ) .
Since  1969 , एपिस्कोपल सम्मेलनों may ,  if they wish , transfer it to a date outside Lent .
Between 1870 and 1955 , a feast was celebrated in honor of St. Joseph  as जीवनसाथी of the धन्य वर्जिन मरियम और संरक्षक of the सार्वभौमिक गिरिजाघर , the latter  title having been given to him by Pope Pius IX .
Originally celebrated on the third Sunday after Easter with an octave , after Divino Afflatu of  st. पायस x ( देखिए सुधार of the रोमन breviary by पोप पायस x ) , it थी स्थानांतरित to  the preceding Wednesday .
The feast  थी भी retitled the  Solemnity of Saint Joseph .
This celebration and its  accompanying अष्टक थी abolished दौरान the आधुनिकीकरण और  simplification of rubrics under Pope Pius XII in 1955 .
It is still maintained by Catholics  जो follow the missal of 1962 or  earlier missals .
As the traditional holiday of the Apostles Ss . Philip and James , May 1 , had faded from the memory of most Catholics by the  mid-twentieth सदी , कि of जोसेफ the कार्यकर्ता थी निर्मित in अनुक्रम to coincide साथ the  celebration of international Labour Day ( May Day ) in many countries .
The feast of Ss .  फिलिप और जेम्स , जिससे था महरूम मनाये on कि तिथि  since the sixth century , was moved from its traditional place .
In the new calendar published in 1969 , the feast , which at one time occupied the highest possible rank in the  गिरिजाघर पंचांग , थी घटाया to an वैकल्पिक मेमोरियल , the न्यूनतम  rank for a saint 's day .
the पूर्वी परंपरागत गिरिजाघर  celebrates Saint Joseph on the Sunday after Christmas .
Mariah Carey ( born March 27 , 1970 ) is an American  सिंगर , songwriter , रिकार्ड निर्माता , अभिनेत्री , और  philanthropist .
Under the guidance of Columbia Records executive  टॉमी mottola , कैरी released उसके self-titled डेब्यू स्टुडियो एल्बम mariah कैरी in 1990 ; it गई multi-platinum और शाखित चार लगातार क्रमांक  one singles on the U.S . Billboard Hot 100 chart .
Following her marriage to Mottola in 1993 and success with hit records Emotions ( 1991 ) ,  म्यूज़िक बक्सा ( 1993 ) , और मैरी क्रिसमस ( 1994 ) , कैरी थी स्थापित as कोलंबिया  's highest-selling act .
daydream ( 1995 ) बना म्यूज़िक इतिहास जब इसके दूसरी सिंगल `` एक मीठी दिन `` , a duet साथ  Boyz II Men , spent a record sixteen weeks on top of the Billboard Hot 100 , and remains the longest-running number-one song in U.S. chart history .
During the  रिकॉर्डिंग of the एल्बम , कैरी began to deviate इससे उसके r & b  and pop beginnings and slowly traversed into hip hop .
This musical change became  evident साथ the रिलीज of तितली ( 1997 ) ,  at which time Carey had separated from Mottola .
Carey left  कोलंबिया in 2000 , और हस्ताक्षरित a  record-breaking $ 100 million recording contract with Virgin Records .
Before the release of her first feature film Glitter ( 2001 ) , she suffered a physical and emotional  विश्लेषण और थी hospitalized लिये कठोर थकावट  .
Following the film 's poor reception , she was bought out of her recording contract for  $ 50 लाख , जिससे led to a मनाही in उसके करियर  .
She signed a multi-million dollar contract deal with Island Records in 2002 , and after  an unsuccessful काल , लौटे to the शीर्ष of म्यूज़िक चार्ट साथ the emancipation  of Mimi ( 2005 ) .
इसके दूसरी सिंगल `` we belong साथ `` became उसके सबसे  successful single of the 2000s , and was later named `` Song of the Decade '' by Billboard .
कैरी एकबार again ventured into फिल्मी साथ a well-received अभिनीत भूमिका in ( 2009 )  ; she was awarded the `` Breakthrough Performance Award '' at the Palm Springs International Film Festival , and Black Reel and NAACP Image Award nominations .
In a career spanning over two decades , Carey has sold more than  200 लाख रिकॉर्ड विश्वव्यापी , बनाना उसके एक of the best-selling म्यूज़िक कलाकारों of सब समय  .
In 1998 , she was honored as the world 's  best-selling रिकॉर्डिंग कलाकार of the 1990s at the संसार म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार  .
Carey was also named  the best-selling मादा कलाकार of the मिलेनियम in  2000 .
According to the Recording  उद्योग संघ of अमेरिका , वो is the तीसरा  best-selling female artist in the United States , with 63.5 million certified albums .
With the  रिलीज of `` टच my देह `` ( 2008 ) , कैरी gained उसके eighteenth क्रमांक एक सिंगल in  the United States , more than any other solo artist .
In  2012 , कैरी थी क्रमित दूसरी on vh1 's सूची  of the `` 100 Greatest Women in Music '' .
Aside from her commercial  accomplishments , कैरी रै जीती पाँच ग्रैमी पुरस्कार , 17 संसार म्यूज़िक  Awards , 11 American Music Awards , and 31 Billboard Music Awards .
Referred to as the `` songbird  परम् '' by the गिनीज संसार रिकॉर्ड , वो is famed लिये उसके five-octave गायन दायरा , शक्ति  , melismatic style and signature use of the whistle register .
A  bumblebee is कोई सदस्य of the मधुमक्खी  genus Bombus , in the family Apidae .
There are over 250  ज्ञात प्रजाति , मौजूदा primarily in the उत्तरी गोलार्ध हालांकि  they also occur in South America .
They have been introduced to New Zealand and  the ऑस्ट्रेलियाई राज्य of तस्मानिया  .
Bumblebees are social  कीट कि हैं characterised by ब्लैक और  yellow body hairs , often in bands .
However , some species have orange or red on  उनके  bodies , or may be entirely black .
Another obvious ( but not unique )  characteristic is the नरम प्रकृति of the बाल ( long , branched setae ) , पुकारा pile , कि कवर उनके संपूर्ण देह , बनाना  them appear and feel fuzzy .
They are best distinguished from similarly large , fuzzy bees by the form of the female hind leg , which is modified to form a  corbicula : a चमकदार concave सतह कि is bare , लकिन घिरी by a फ्रिंज of बालों प्रयुक्त to हस्तांतरण पराग ( in समान मधुमक्खियों , the हिन्द लेग is completely  hairy , and pollen grains are wedged into the hairs for transport ) .
Like their  रिश्तेदारों the मधु मधुमक्खियों , bumblebees फीड on मकरंद और  gather pollen to feed their young .
A man openly carrying a handgun in a  बर्गर किंग in त्रिभुज , कोलोराडो  .
In the United States , open carry is shorthand terminology  लिये `` खुलकर carrying a firearm in पब्लिक '' , as विशिष्ट इससे concealed carry , जहाँ firearms  can not be seen by the casual observer .
The  अभ्यास of खोलें carry , जहाँ गन स्वामी खुलकर carry firearms जबकि वे go परिचय उनके  daily business , has seen an increase in the U.S. in recent years .
This has been marked by  a क्रमांक of व्यवस्थित कार्यक्रम intended to  increase the visibility of open carry and public awareness about the practice .
Proponents of open carry point to  इतिहास और आंकडे , noting कि अपराधियों प्रायः  conceal their weapons .
Encouraged by groups like OpenCarry.org , GeorgiaCarry.org  और कुछ भागीदार of the फ़्री राज्य प्रोजेक्ट , खोलें carry रै देखी a पुनरुद्धार in हाल  years , but it is not yet clear if this represents just a short-term trend .
The gun  अधिकारों जातियाँ रै महरूम मिश्रित in  its response .
Alan Gottlieb of the Second Amendment Foundation and the NRA have been cautious in expressing  support , जबकि special-interest समूह ऐसे as the aforementioned opencarry.org और georgiacarry.org , और निश्चित नेशनल समूह ऐसे as the गन  Owners of America ( GOA ) have been more outspoken in favor of the practice .
Open carry is strongly opposed by  गन कंट्रोल समूह ऐसे as the ब्रैडी अभियान और  the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence .
the cattenom नाभिकीय शक्ति  Plant in France .
France produces  around तीन quarters of इसके विद्युत by नाभिकीय  power .
The  grafenrheinfeld नाभिकीय शक्ति  Plant in Germany .
Chancellor Angela  मार्केल 's गठबन्धन घोषित on may 30 , 2011 , कि germany’s 17 नाभिकीय शक्ति स्टेशन  will be shut down by 2022 , in a policy reversal following Japan 's Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster .
Currently , 68  रिएक्टरों हैं अंतर्गत निर्माण in 15  countries .
Nuclear  शक्ति स्टेशन operate in तीस  countries .
In 2010 , before the  फुकुशिमा daiichi नाभिकीय विपत्ति , it थी reported कि an औसत of परिचय 10 नाभिकीय रिएक्टरों यहूद अपेक्षित  to become operational per year , although according to the World Nuclear Association , of the 17 civilian reactors planned to become operational between 2007 and 2009 , only five actually came on stream .
As of  जून 2011 , जर्मनी और स्विट्ज़रलैंड हैं  phasing-out nuclear power .
As of June 2011 , countries such as Australia , Austria , Denmark , Greece , Ireland , Italy , Latvia ,  liechtenstein , ध्वज , मलेशिया , माल्टा , नई जीलैंड , नार्वे और पुर्तगाल remain opposed to  nuclear power .
Color motion picture film refers both to unexposed color photographic film in a format suitable for use in a motion picture camera , and to  समाप्त गति चित्र फिल्मी , तैयार लिये उपयोग in a प्रोजेक्टर , जिससे  bears images in color .
The first color cinematography was by means of additive color systems  ऐसे as the एक patented in इंग्लैण्ड by एडवर्ड रेमंड टर्नर in 1899 और tested in 1902  .
A simplified additive system was developed by George  अल्बर्ट स्मिथ और सफलतापूर्वक commercialized in 1909  as Kinemacolor .
These early systems used black-and-white film to photograph and  प्रोजेक्ट दो or अधिक घटक बिंब through अलग  color filters .
स्टिल इससे फुटेज अंकित  by Edward Turner in 1902
With the present-day technology , there are two distinct processes : Eastman Color Negative 2 chemistry ( camera negative stocks , duplicating interpositive and internegative  स्टॉक्स ) और eastman रंग धनात्मक 2 रसायन ( धनात्मक prints लिये सीधा प्रक्षेप ) , प्रायः abbreviated as  ECN-2 and ECP-2 .
Fuji 's  उत्पाद हैं संगत  with ECN-2 and ECP-2 .
Ashanti Shequoiya Douglas ( born October 13 , 1980 ) is  an अमरीकी singer-songwriter , रिकार्ड निर्माता  , and actress .
Ashanti is most famous for her eponymous debut album , which featured the hit  सोंग `` foolish `` , और बेची over 503,000 नक़ल in इसके पहला सप्ताह of रिलीज throughout the u.S.  in April 2002 .
the एल्बम नियत a soundscan रिकार्ड as the biggest खोलने सप्ताह  sales for a new female artist , outselling debuts by Alicia Keys and Lauryn Hill .
In the same week , she became the  पहला मादा यजमान to simultaneously थाम the शीर्ष दो स्थान on the  Billboard Hot 100 singles chart with `` Foolish '' , and `` What 's Luv ? ``
(  साथ मोटे  Joe ) .
Ashanti broke records again by  having तीन शीर्ष टेन गीतों , `` foolish , '' `` कया 's luv ? ''  and `` Always on Time `` , on the Billboard Hot 100 charts in the same week , being the first woman to accomplish this feat and being second only to the Beatles .
In 2003 , the self-titled debut album won Ashanti her  पहला ग्रैमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन समकालीन r & b एल्बम  .
As of April 1st 2013 , Ashanti  रै बेची over 27.7 लाख रिकॉर्ड विश्वव्यापी  .
Ashanti ended  the दशक ( 2000–09 ) as the तीसरा  top new R & B artist behind Alicia Keys and Beyoncé .
She  भी ended the दशक  at number 38 on the Top Artist of the Decade list .
She is currently on the list of The Twenty Best Selling Music  singles चूंकि 1990 लिये उसके सिंगल foolish लिये selling 7.2 लाख  copies to-date .
Ashanti  रै an अनुमानित जाल लायक  of $ 40 million dollars [ USD ] .
Ashanti wrote and sang background on Jennifer Lopez 's ``  ai n't it मजेदार ( हत्या रिमिक्स ) `` , जिससे पहुँचे क्रमांक एक on बिलबोर्ड hot 100 , जिससे थी भी in the शीर्ष 10 चार्ट  at the same time as `` Foolish '' , `` Always on Time '' ( with Ja Rule ) , and `` What 's Luv '' ( with Fat Joe ) .
Later that year , she was  acclaimed as the `` राजकुमारी of hip-hop & r & b '' by उसके लेबल और capped बंद उसके कामयाब  debut by winning eight Billboard awards and two American Music Awards .
Within seven years of  ashanti 's करियर , वो रै scored 16 शीर्ष 40  hits on the Hot 100 .
Ashanti has endorsed numerous products including Gap ,  हर्बल essences और mudd  Jeans .
Ashanti cites Whitney Houston , Janet Jackson , Prince , Madonna , Tupac  shakur , मरियम J. blige , एला fitzgerald , नशीले रॉबिन्सन , डोना गर्मियाँ  , and Blue Magic as her musical influences .
praised as a gifted songwriter by उसके peers और  critics alike , Ashanti has written/co-written the bulk of all her music .
She is currently working on her own publishing  कम्पनी हकदार लिखा entertainment  .
She released her fourth studio album  हकदार the घोषणा on जून 3 , 2008 और is फिलहाल in the स्टुडियो working  on her fifth .
She also performed the charity tune `` Just Stand Up `` alongside 15 other  मादा गायकों लिये the `` स्टैंड up to कर्कट '' सजीव टेलीविज़न खास जिससे helped  raise $ 100 million dollars for cancer research .
The United States Army Air Forces ( USAAF or AAF ) was the military aviation arm of the United States of America  दौरान और तत्काल बाद संसार युद्ध ii , और the सीधा पूर्ववर्ती of  the United States Air Force .
The AAF was a component of the United States Army , which in 1942 was  विभाजित functionally by कार्यपालिका अनुक्रम into तीन autonomous शक्तियां : the फौज मैदान शक्तियां  , the Services of Supply ( which in 1943 became the Army Service Forces ) , and the AAF .
Each of these forces had a  commanding सामान्य जो reported  directly to the Chief of Staff of the United States Army .
The AAF administered all parts of military aviation formerly  वितरित among the फौज एयर corps , सामान्य मुख्यालय एयर फ़ोर्स , और मैदान शक्तियां corps क्षेत्रफल कमांडरों , और यूँ became the पहला  air organization of the U.S. Army to control its own installations and support personnel .
In  अभ्यास , the aaf थी वस्तुतः  autonomous inside the Army .
The peak size of the AAF was over 2.4 million men and women in  सेवा और nearly 80,000 वायुयान in 1944 , और 783 घरेलू  bases in December 1943 .
By VE Day  it था 1.25 लाख मेन  stationed overseas and operated from more than 1,600 airfields worldwide .
The Air Corps became the Army Air Forces in June 1941 to provide the air  भुजा a वृहद स्वायत्तता in जिससे to विस्तार अधिक efficiently , और to provide a ढांचा लिये the अतिरिक्त  command echelons required by a vastly increased force .
Although other nations already had separate air forces  स्वतंत्र of the फौज or नेवी ( ऐसे as the अंग्रेजों royal एयर फ़ोर्स और the जर्मनी luftwaffe ) , the aaf remained a भाग of the संयुक्त  States Army until the United States Air Force came into being in September 1947 .
However , in its expansion and conduct of the war ,  the aaf became अधिक than बस an भुजा of the वृहद  organization .
by the समाप्त of संसार युद्ध ii the aaf था become वस्तुतः an  independent service .
By regulation and executive order , the AAF was a subordinate agency of the War Department tasked only with  आयोजन , प्रशिक्षण , और equipping कॉम्बैट इकाई , सीमित in जिम्मेदारी to the महाद्वीपीय संयुक्त राज्य , as यहूद  the Army Ground Forces and the Army Service Forces .
In reality , Headquarters AAF controlled the conduct of all aspects of the air war  in प्रत्येक भाग of the संसार , determining एयर नीति और issuing आदेश बगैर transmitting  them through the Chief of Staff .
This `` contrast  between सिद्धान्त और फैक्ट is ... आधारभूत to  an understanding of the AAF . ''
The Freedom of Information Act ( FOIA ) is a federal freedom of information law  कि allows लिये the पूरा or आंशिक प्रकटीकरण of previously unreleased सूचना और  documents controlled by the United States government .
The Act defines agency records subject to disclosure ,  outlines अनिवार्य प्रकटीकरण प्रक्रियाओं और अनुदान नौ छूटों  to the statute .
It was  originally हस्ताक्षरित into विधि by अध्यक्ष lyndon B. जॉनसन , despite  his misgivings , on July 4 , 1966 as and went into effect the following year .
The Federal Government 's Freedom of Information  अधिनियम चाहिए नहीं be उलझन साथ the अलग और varying स्वतंत्रता of सूचना  Acts passed by the individual states .
Many of  those राज्य अधिनियमों may be समान लकिन नहीं एकसमान  to the federal act .
The European Union ( EU ) is an  आर्थिक और राजनैतिक संघ of 27 सदस्य राज्य कि  are located primarily in Europe .
The EU  operates through a प्रणाली of supranational स्वतंत्र संस्थानों और intergovernmental  negotiated decisions by the member states .
Institutions of the EU include the European Commission , the  परिषद of the यूरोपीय संघ , the यूरोपीय परिषद , the अदालत of इंसाफ of the यूरोपीय संघ ,  the European Central Bank , the Court of Auditors , and the European Parliament .
The European  पार्लियामेंट is निर्वाचित प्रत्येक पाँच सालो by  EU citizens .
The EU 's de facto  पूंजी is ब्रसेल्स  .
The EU traces its origins from the European Coal and Steel Community ( ECSC ) and the  यूरोपीय आर्थिक जातियाँ ( eec ) , formed by the भीतरी छह देशों in  1951 and 1958 respectively .
In the intervening years the community and its successors have grown in  आकार by the accession of नई सदस्य राज्य  and in power by the addition of policy areas to its remit .
The  maastricht सन्धि स्थापित the यूरोपीय  Union under its current name in 1993 .
The latest major amendment  to the संवैधानिक आधार of the eu , the सन्धि  of Lisbon , came into force in 2009 .
The EU has  विकसित a सिंगल मार्केट through a standardised  system of laws that apply in all member states .
Within the Schengen Area (  जिससे शामिल 22 eu और 4 non-eu राज्य ) पासपोर्ट नियंत्रण have महरूम  abolished .
EU policies aim to ensure the free movement of people , goods , services , and capital , enact legislation in justice and home affairs ,  और maintain आम नीतियों on व्यापार , कृषि , fisheries और क्षेत्रीय विकास  .
a मौद्रिक संघ , the eurozone , थी स्थापित  in 1999 and is composed of 17 member states .
Through the Common  विदेशी और सुरक्षा नीति the eu रै विकसित  a role in external relations and defence .
Permanent diplomatic missions have  महरूम स्थापित around the संसार  .
The EU is represented  at the संयुक्त राष्ट्र  , the WTO , the G8 and the G-20 .
With a combined population of  over 500 लाख निवासियों , or 7.3 % of the संसार जनसांख्यिकी , the eu , in 2012 , उत्पन्न a नाममात्र सकल घरेलू उत्पाद ( जीडीपी ) of 16.584 खरब us डॉलर , representing लगभग 20 % of the वैश्विक  GDP when measured in terms of purchasing power parity , and represents the largest nominal GDP and GDP PPP in the world .
The EU was the  प्राप्तकर्ता of the 2012 नोबेल सलाम  Prize .
The Wales national  रग्बी लीग टोली represent वेल्स in अंतरराष्ट्रीय रग्बी  league football matches .
Currently  the टोली is सातवाँ in  the RLIF World Rankings .
The team were  चलाएं अंतर्गत the auspices of the रग्बी फ़ुटबॉल लीग , लकिन an स्वतंत्र देह , वेल्स  Rugby League , now runs the team from Cardiff .
A total of three Welsh players have  महरूम डाला into the रग्बी लीग  Hall Of Fame .
Similar to many other  वेल्श नेशनल sporting टीमों , वेल्स स्ट्रिप रै महरूम primarily रेड लिये  many years , including now .
However  in उनके पिछला संसार कप अभियान in 2000 वे किया पहनें a कमीज़ featuring  the Welsh flag , adding a touch of green and white .
The team is known as `` The Dragons ''  और so the टीमों लोगो on the कमीज़  is a red dragon .
The team date back to 1907 , making  उन्हें the तीसरा oldest नेशनल पक्ष बाद  England and New Zealand .
And it was a touring New  जीलैंड पक्ष कि वेल्स पहला निभाई विरूद्ध in 1908  , winning 9-8 at Aberdare .
चूंकि तब वेल्स have regularly निभाई इंग्लैण्ड , चूंकि 1935 फ़्रांस , as  well as welcomed the touring Australia and New Zealand teams , although they rarely toured themselves , not playing a match in the Southern Hemisphere until 1975 .
For twenty-six years Wales competed against their  दो biggest विरोधियों , इंग्लैण्ड और फ़्रांस , in the यूरोपीय राष्ट्र कप , जीतना the  trophy four times .
Wales have also competed in the World  कप on तीन अवसरों , the पहला समय होने  in 1975 .
In  1995 और 2000 वे था उनके सबसे कामयाब tournaments to  date , surprisingly making the Semi-Finals on both occasions before being beaten by England and Australia respectively .
Wales failed to qualify for the 2008 World Cup , being the second highest ranked side  नहीं to do so , having खोया to स्कॉटलैंड on अंक अंतर over दो  matches .
In 2008 Australian John Dixon became the new head  कोच और नियुक्त ली briers as कप्तान , having निभाई लिये वेल्स  since 1998 .
In recent seasons Wales have taken massive strides under former player Iestyn Harris who has coached  वेल्स to वापस to वापस यूरोपीय कप सफलताओं , जिससे culminated in a चार राष्ट्र रूप in 2011  .
Cardiomyopathy ( literally `` heart muscle disease '' ) is the measurable deterioration of the function of the myocardium ( the heart muscle ) for any  कारण , प्रायः अग्रणी to दिल विफलता ; आम लक्षण हैं dyspnea ( breathlessness ) और परिधीय एडिमा ( सूजन of  the legs ) .
लोगों साथ cardiomyopathy हैं प्रायः at रिस्क of खतरनाक फ़ॉर्म of irregular  heart beat and sudden cardiac death .
The most  आम रूप of cardiomyopathy  is dilated cardiomyopathy .
Fuck in its literal meaning  refers to the अधिनियम of यौन मैथुन  .
It is an English word that is often  प्रयुक्त as a profanity , either to denote तिरस्कार  or as an intensifier .
The  उत्पत्ति of the शब्द is  obscure .
It is usually considered to be first  attested to around 1475 , लकिन it may be considerably  older .
In modern usage , fuck and its derivatives  ( ऐसे as कमीने और fucking ) can be प्रयुक्त in  the position of a noun , a verb , an adjective or an adverb .
There are many common phrases which make use of  the शब्द , as खूब as a क्रमांक of यौगिकों incorporating it , ऐसे  as motherfucker .
Note : this article adopts the U.S.  विभाग of परिवहन 's परिभाषा of a यात्री गाडी , to औसत a car  or truck , used for passengers , excluding buses and trains .
The United States is home to the largest  यात्री गाडी मार्केट of कोई देश  in the world .
Overall , there were an estimated 254.4 million  पंजीकृत यात्री वाहनों in the संयुक्त राज्य according to a 2007 बिन्दु पढ़ाई  .
This number , along with the average age of vehicles , has increased  steadily चूंकि 1960 , indicating a growing क्रमांक of वाहनों  per capita .
The Chinese  car मार्केट , however , is poised to जल्द exceed the संयुक्त राज्य  ; by the end of 2012 , there were over 240 million cars on the road in China .
The United States is also home to three large vehicle manufacturers : General Motors , Ford  मोटर कम्पनी और क्रिसलर , जिससे have historically महरूम referred to as the `` बिग  Three . ''
Chrysler however is  no longer among the शीर्ष तीन  ; but is number five , behind Toyota and Honda .
The motor car has clearly become an  अभिन्न भाग of अमरीकी जीवन , साथ वाहनों  outnumbering licensed drivers .
Clinical laboratory in  a हॉस्पिटल सेटिंग प्रर्दशित अनेक  automated analysers .
A medical  प्रयोगशाला or नैदानिक प्रयोगशाला is a प्रयोगशाला जहाँ परीक्षण हैं किया on नैदानिक नमूनों in अनुक्रम to मिलेंगी सूचना  about the health of a patient as pertaining to the diagnosis , treatment , and prevention of disease .
In poker , players construct hands of five cards according to  predetermined नियम , जिससे vary according to जिससे रूपांतर of पोकर  is being played .
These  हैंड्स हैं compared using a हाथ रैंकिंग प्रणाली कि is मानक आरपार  all variants of poker , the player with the highest-ranking hand winning that particular deal in most variants of poker .
In some variants , the  lowest-ranking हाथ can जीत  or tie .
These hand rankings are also used in some  अन्य कार्ड खेल , और in पोकर  dice .
The ranking of a particular hand  is increased by सहित अनेक ताश of the वही कार्ड  rank , by all five cards being from the same suit , or by all five cards being of consecutive rank .
The relative  रैंकिंग of the विभिन्न हाथ श्रेणी is आधारित on the संभाव्यता of होने randomly  dealt such a hand from a well- shuffled deck .
Bruce Randall Hornsby ( born November 23 , 1954 ) is an  अमरीकी virtuoso ; a सिंगर , pianist , सिंथेसाइज़र , accordion , और dulcimer खिलाड़ी  , and songwriter .
Known for the spontaneity and creativity of his live performances , Hornsby draws frequently from classical ,  जैज़ , ब्लूग्रास , लोक , motown , इन्जील , चट्टान , ब्लूज़ , और jam बैंड musical परंपराओं साथ उसके  songwriting and the seamless improvisations contained within .
Hornsby 's recordings have been recognised on a number of occasions with industry awards , including the Best New Artist Grammy in 1987 with  ब्रूस hornsby और the दायरा , the बेहतरीन ब्लूग्रास रिकॉर्डिंग ग्रैमी in 1990 , और the बेहतरीन पॉप इंस्ट्रूमेंटल ग्रैमी  in 1993 .
Hornsby has also achieved recognition for his  सोलो एल्बम और प्रदर्शन , उसके touring बैंड ब्रूस hornsby और the noisemakers , उसके ब्लूग्रास  project with Ricky Skaggs and his appearances as a session- and guest-musician .
He also collaborated with Grateful Dead and was a member of the  बैंड इससे सितंबर 1990 to कूच 1992 , playing at over एक सौ  shows during that period .
Sugarcane  वृक्षारोपण in ग्रामीण  Cuba
Agriculture in  क्यूबा रै निभाई an महत्वपूर्ण  part in the economy for several hundred years .
Agriculture contributes less than  10 प्रतिशत to the सकल घरेलू उत्पाद ( जीडीपी ) , लकिन it employs roughly  20 percent of the working population .
About 30 percent of the country 's  जमीन is प्रयुक्त लिये क्रॉप cultivation  .
The  अकुशल agricultural उद्योग in क्यूबा रै led to  the need to import large amounts of foods .
Cuba now imports  परिचय 80 % of the खाना it rations to  the public .
The rationing program  खाते लिये परिचय a तीसरा of the खाना उर्जा  the average Cuban consumes .
Overall , however  , क्यूबा is निर्भर on imports  for only 16 % of its food .
सही
Mega Millions  ( initially पुकारा the बिग खेल आचमन लाखो as the successor  of The Big Game ) is an American multi-jurisdictional $ 1 lottery game .
The first ( The Big  खेल ) आचमन लाखो आरेखण थी in 2002  ( see below ) .
The minimum Mega Millions advertised jackpot is $ 12,000,000 , paid in 26 equal yearly  किश्तों ( जबतक the नकदी विकल्प is चुनी ) ; प्रायः , the जैकपॉट increases जब  there is no top-prize winner .
However , despite no  जैकपॉट विजेता लिये the $ 12,000,000 दिसम्बर 18 , 2012 आरेखण , the जैकपॉट  remained at $ 12,000,000 for the drawing to be held on December 21 .
( See below for information on how the game 's jackpot  is वित्तपोषित . )
Reflecting common  अभ्यास among अमरीकी lotteries , the जैकपॉट is advertised  as a nominal value of annual installments .
A cash value option ( the usual  चुनाव ) , जब चुनी by a जैकपॉट विजेता ( देखिए नीचे ) , pays  the approximate present value of the installments .
Mega Millions  फिलहाल उपयोग a 5/56 ( श्वेत गेंदें ) प्लस 1/46  ( the Mega Ball ) double matrix to select its winning numbers .
प्रत्येक खेल लागत  $ 1 .
In 43 of the 44 Mega Millions jurisdictions ( California is the exception ) ,  वहीँ is an विकल्प , पुकारा megaplier ( ऐसे खेल हैं $ 2 प्रत्येक ) जहाँ non-jackpot  prizes are multiplied by 2 , 3 , or 4 .
The  megaplier थी बना उपलब्धियाँ to सब आचमन लाखो jurisdictions  in January 2011 ; it began as a Texas -only option .
Mega  लाखो is drawn at 10:59 p.m. पूर्वी समय मंगलवार  and Fridays , including holidays .
Mega Millions is administered by a  consortium of इसके 12 असली lotteries और the drawings हैं आयोजित at wsb-tv  in Atlanta , Georgia .
पर्यवेक्षित by the  Georgia Lottery .
The largest jackpot in Mega Millions , as well as in American lottery history , was $ 656,000,000 annuitized ( with a cash option of  $ 474,000,000 ) लिये the कूच 30 , 2012 आरेखण in जिससे वहीँ यहूद तीन jackpot-winning टिकटें ; एक  each in Illinois , Kansas , and Maryland .
All three tickets had been claimed as of April 18 , with each set of  विजेता चुनना the नकदी  option .
is a  जापानी manga श्रेणी निर्मित by लेखक tsugumi  Ohba and manga artist Takeshi Obata .
The main character is Light Yagami , a high  स्कूल छात्र जो discovers a अलौकिक कोपी , the `` मौत नोट '' , dropped on धरती by a shinigami  ( a god of death ) named Ryuk .
the मौत नोट अनुदान इसके उपयोक्ता the क्षमता to मार anyone जिनकी नाम और  face they know , by writing the name in the notebook while picturing their face .
The series centers around Light 's attempt to create and rule a world `` cleansed of  दुष्ट '' as `` परमेश्वर '' using the कोपी , और the  efforts of a detective known as L to stop him .
Death  नोट थी पहला serialized in 108 अध्याय by shueisha in  the Japanese manga magazine Weekly Shōnen Jump from December 2003 to May 2006 .
The  श्रेणी थी भी प्रकाशित in tankōbon स्वरूप in जापानी  starting in May 2004 and ending in October 2006 with a total of thirteen volumes .
The anime series  aired in जापानी इससे अक्तूबर 3 , 2006  , to June 26 , 2007 .
Composed of 37 episodes , the anime was developed by  madhouse और निर्देशित by tetsuro  Araki .
A light novel based on the series ,  लिखा by nisio isin , थी released in जापानी  .
additionally , विभिन्न वीडियो खेल  have been published by Konami for Nintendo DS .
The series was  adapted into live-action films released  in Japan on June 17 , 2006 , November 3 , 2006 , and February 2 , 2008 .
Viz Media licensed the Death Note manga in North America and has published all the  बारह आयतन इससे the श्रेणी , a 13th आवाज़ जिससे serves as a `` रीडर  's guide '' , as well as the light novels .
The episodes from  the दुश्मनी पहला appeared in उत्तर अमेरिका  as downloadable by IGN .
Viz later licensed the anime series and it  aired on bionix in कनाडा और on कार्टून  Network in the United States .
The  live-action films briefly निभाई in  certain North American theaters since 2008 .
however , none of the वीडियो  games have thus far been published in North America or Europe .
Death Note  is एक of साप्ताहिक shōnen jumps best-selling  manga series of all time , with sales over 26.5 million copies .
Halloween or Hallowe'en ( a contraction of `` All Hallows ' Evening `` ) , also known as All Hallows ' Eve , is a yearly celebration observed in a number of  देशों on अक्तूबर 31 , the संध्या of the पश्चिमी ईसाई feast of सब hallows (  or All Saints ) and the day initiating the triduum of Hallowmas .
According to many scholars , All Hallows ' Eve is a  christianised feast originally बहकावे by पश्चिमी यूरोपीय कटाई त्यौहार , और त्यौहार of the मुर्दे साथ संभावित pagan जड़ें  , particularly the Celtic Samhain .
Other  विद्वानों maintain कि it originated  independently of Samhain and has solely Christian roots .
Typical festive Halloween activities include trick-or-treating ( also known as `` guising `` ) , attending costume parties ,  नक्काशी pumpkins into jack-o'-lanterns , lighting bonfires , ठहराना bobbing , visiting haunted आकर्षण  , playing pranks , telling scary stories , and watching horror films .
New  यॉर्क नगर taxicabs दौरान  Midtown rush hour in Manhattan
The taxicabs of New York City , with their  distinctive पीला पेंट , हैं a widely पहचाना  icon of the city .
Taxicabs are operated by private  कंपनियाँ और licensed by the नई यॉर्क नगर टैक्सी और लिमोज़ीन  Commission ( TLC ) .
It also oversees over 40,000 other for-hire  वाहनों , सहित `` ब्लैक गाड़ियाँ '' , commuter वैन  and ambulettes .
`` Medallion taxis , '' the familiar yellow cabs , are the  तभी वाहनों in the नगर permitted to चुनें up यात्री in  response to a street hail .
Schematic cross section of  भाग of पत्ता , जाइलम दिखाया  as red circles at figure 8 .
Xylem is one of  the दो प्रकार of हस्तांतरण ऊतक in vascular  plants ( phloem is the other ) .
The word xylem is derived from the  यूनानी शब्द ξύλον ( xylon ) , अर्थ `` लकडी '' ; the best-known  xylem tissue is wood , though it is found throughout the plant .
Its  मौलिक फलन is to हस्तांतरण जल , लकिन  it also transports some nutrients through the plant .
U.S.  महिलाओं suffragists  demonstrating for the right to vote , February 1913 .
Women 's suffrage also known as woman suffrage is the  सही of महिलाओं to vote और to  run for office .
Limited voting rights were gained by women in  स्वीडन , फिनलैंड और कुछ पश्चिमी u.S. राज्य in the लेट  19th century .
International organizations were formed to coordinate efforts , especially  the अंतरराष्ट्रीय परिषद of महिलाओं ( 1888 ) और the अंतरराष्ट्रीय स्त्री suffrage गठबंधन  ( 1904 ) .
In 1893 , New Zealand , then a self-governing British colony , granted adult  महिलाओं the सही to vote और the self-governing अंग्रेजों  colony of South Australia did the same in 1895 , but also permitted women to run for office .
Australia federated in 1901 , and women acquired the right  to vote और स्टैंड in संघीय चुनावों इससे 1902 , हालांकि uneven प्रतिबंध on aboriginal महिलाओं  voting in national elections were not completely removed until 1962 .
The first European country to introduce  महिलाओं 's suffrage थी the ग्रैंड duchy of फिनलैंड , तब भाग of the रूसी साम्राज्य , जिससे  also produced the world 's first female members of parliament in the 1907 parliamentary elections .
Norway followed , granting  पूरा महिलाओं 's suffrage in 1913  .
In most Western  देशों , महिलाओं 's suffrage आए बाद संसार i युद्ध i i , साथ कुछ महत्वपूर्ण  late adopters being France in 1944 and Switzerland in 1971 .
Women 's  suffrage रै generally महरूम पहचाना बाद  political campaigns to obtain it were waged .
In many countries it was  granted पहले सार्वभौमिक  suffrage .
Women 's suffrage is explicitly stated as a right under the  सम्मेलन on the विलोपन of सब फ़ॉर्म of पक्षपात विरूद्ध महिलाओं , अपनाया  by the United Nations in 1979 .
The Thirteenth Tale (  2006 ) by डायने setterfield is a गोथिक सस्पेंस  novel , the author 's first published book .
Jehovah 's Witnesses is a millenarian restorationist Christian denomination  साथ nontrinitarian मान्यताओं पृथक इससे मुख्यधारा christianity .सोर्सs लिये descriptors : • millenarian : • restorationist : • ईसाई : • denomination : the संगठन रिपोर्ट्स विश्वव्यापी सदस्यता  of over 7.78 million adherents involved in evangelism , convention attendance of over 12 million , and annual Memorial attendance of over 19 million .
They are directed by  the शासी देह of यहोवा  's Witnesses , a group of elders in Brooklyn , New York , that establishes all doctrines .
Jehovah 's Witnesses ' beliefs are  आधारित on उनके interpretations of the बाइबल और वे prefer to उपयोग उनके अपना अनुवाद , the नई  World Translation of the Holy Scriptures .
They believe that the destruction of  the उपस्थित संसार प्रणाली at armageddon is निकट  , and that the establishment of God 's kingdom on earth is the only solution for all problems faced by mankind .
The group emerged from the Bible Student movement —founded in the late 1870s by Charles Taze Russell with the formation of Zion 's Watch Tower Tract  समाज —with significant organizational  and doctrinal changes under the leadership of Joseph Franklin Rutherford .
The name Jehovah 's witnesses  , आधारित on यशायाह 43:10–12 , थी अपनाया in 1931 to फर्क themselves इससे अन्य बाइबल  Student groups and symbolize a break with the legacy of Russell 's traditions .
Jehovah  's गवाह हैं बेहतरीन ज्ञात लिये उनके door-to-door उपदेश  , distributing literature such as The Watchtower and Awake !
, and refusing  सैन्य सेवा और रक्त transfusions  .
They consider use of the  नाम यहोवा vital लिये उचित इबादत  .
They reject  trinitarianism , अंतर्निहित अमरत्व of the आत्मा , और hellfire , जिससे  they consider to be unscriptural doctrines .
They do  नहीं observe क्रिसमस , ईस्टर , जन्मदिन , or  other holidays and customs they consider to have pagan origins incompatible with Christianity .
Adherents commonly refer to their body of beliefs as `` the  सच्चाई '' और consider themselves  to be `` in the truth '' .
They consider secular society to be  morally भ्रष्ट और अंतर्गत the influence of शैतानी ,  and most limit their social interaction with non-Witnesses .
संकीर्तन अनुशासनात्मक क्रियाएँ शामिल disfellowshipping , उनके पद  for formal expulsion and shunning .
Baptized individuals who  formally छोड़ हैं माना disassociated  and are also shunned .
Disfellowshipped and disassociated individuals may  आखिरकार be reinstated if deemed repentant  .
The religion 's position  regarding ईमानदार आपत्ति to सैन्य सेवा और refusal to सलाम  national flags has brought it into conflict with some governments .
Consequently , Jehovah 's Witnesses have been persecuted and  उनके क्रियाएँ हैं बैन or प्रतिबंधित in कुछ  countries .
Persistent legal challenges  by यहोवा 's  Witnesses have influenced legislation related to civil rights in several countries .
Last Tango in Paris ( ) is a 1972 Franco-Italian romantic Drama film  निर्देशित by बर्नार्डो bertolucci जिससे portrays a हाल अमरीकी विधुर जो begins an बेनाम यौन संबंध साथ a यंग , betrothed  Parisian woman .
It stars Marlon Brando ,  मरिया श्नाइडर , और jean-pierre  Léaud .
The film 's raw portrayal of sexual violence  और emotional turmoil led to अंतरराष्ट्रीय विवाद और खींचा  various levels of government censorship .
The MPAA gave the  फिल्मी an x दरजा upon रिलीज  in the United States .
After revisions were  बना to the mpaa दरजा कोड ,  it was classified as an NC-17 in 1997 .
MGM  released a censored r-rated  cut in 1981 .
the फिल्मी रै इसके nc-17 दरजा लिये `` कुछ  explicit sexual content . ''
Windows XP is an operating system produced by Microsoft for use on  निजी कंप्यूटर , सहित घर और कारोबार desktops , लैपटॉप और मीडिया  centers .
पहला released to कंप्यूटर निर्माताओं on अगस्त 24 , 2001 , it is the दूसरी  most popular version of Windows , based on installed user base .
The name `` XP '' is short for `` eXPerience ''  , highlighting the उन्नत उपयोक्ता  experience .
खिड़कियाँ xp , the successor to खिड़कियाँ 2000 और खिड़कियाँ me , थी the पहला  consumer-oriented operating system produced by Microsoft to be built on the Windows NT kernel .
Windows XP was released  विश्वव्यापी लिये खुदरा बिक्री on अक्तूबर 25 , 2001 , और over 400 लाख नक़ल  were in use in January 2006 .
It was succeeded by Windows  विस्टा in जनवरी 2007  .
Direct OEM and retail sales of  खिड़कियाँ xp ceased on जून 30 , 2008  .
microsoft जारी to बेचें खिड़कियाँ xp through उनके प्रणाली बिल्डर  ( smaller OEMs who sell assembled computers ) program until January 31 , 2009 .
On April 10 , 2012 , Microsoft reaffirmed that extended support for Windows XP and Office 2003 would end on April 8  , 2014 और सुझाया कि प्रशासकों शुरू तैयारी to migrate to a नए  OS .
the nt -आधारd संस्करण of खिड़कियाँ , जिससे हैं प्रोग्रामित  in C , C++ , and assembly , are known for their improved stability and efficiency over the 9x versions of Microsoft Windows .
Windows XP presented a significantly redesigned graphical user interface  , a बदलें microsoft प्रचारित as अधिक user-friendly than पिछला संस्करण  of Windows .
In an attempt to  further ameliorate the `` dll नरक `` कि plagued the पास्ट संस्करण of खिड़कियाँ , improved side-by-side  assembly technology in Windows XP allows side-by-side installation , registration and servicing of multiple versions of globally shared software components in full isolation .
It is also the first  संस्करण of खिड़कियाँ to उपयोग उत्पाद सक्रियण  to combat illegal copying .
During Windows XP 's development , the  प्रोजेक्ट थी codenamed `` whistler '' , बाद whistler , अंग्रेजों कोलंबिया , as अनेक microsoft कर्मचारी  skied at the Whistler-Blackcomb ski resort .
According to web analytics data generated by Net Applications , Windows XP  थी the सबसे widely प्रयुक्त ऑपरेटिंग  system until August 2012 , when Windows 7 overtook it .
, Windows XP market share is at 38.99 % ,  having decreased लगभग प्रत्येक माह चूंकि at तनिक नवम्बर  2007 , the first month for which statistics are publicly available from Net Applications .
``  पोर ऊना cabeza '' is an अर्जेंटाइन टैंगो साथ म्यूज़िक और गीत  written in 1935 by Carlos Gardel and Alfredo Le Pera respectively .
The name is a Spanish  horse-racing phrase अर्थ `` by a सिर '' , जिससे refers to a घोड़ा जीतना  a race by the length of one head .
The lyrics speak of a compulsive  horse-track जुआरी जो compares  his addiction for horses with his attraction to women .
अल्फ्रेडो le प्रभा थी a ब्राज़ीलियाई इससे são पाउलो , a much italian-influenced  area in Brazil , and also the birthplace of Zequinha de Abreu , composer of Tico-Tico no Fubá .
le प्रभा और gardel died in an वायुयान  crash in Medellín , ( Colombia ) , on June 24 , 1935 .
Por una  cabeza
The  टैंगो रै चूंकि महरूम performed by numerous  tango orchestras .
Tango scenes with `` Por una Cabeza '' appear in Delicatessen ( 1991 ) , Scent of a Woman ( 1992 ) , Schindler 's List ( 1993 ) , True Lies ( 1994 ) , Titanic ( 1996 ) , Bad Santa ( Uncut Version , 2003 ) , All the King 's Men ( 2006 ) , Planet 51 ( 2009 ) , episode 37 of Nip/Tuck ( 2003–2010 ) , episode 9 of South Korean drama series Sweet Spy (  2005–08 ) , the शुरूआत और समाप्ति क्रेडिट of the दक्षिण कोरियाई नाटक ब्रॉडकास्ट i 'm sorry , i प्रेम तुम ( 2004 ) , और the एपीसोड `` bas the खरगोश छेद `` ( 2007  ) .
In the movie Frida ( Salma Hayek , 2002 ) ,  gardel is सुना गायन it on  a radio .
It is also quoted in  दाउद डेल tredici 's `` शुभ  News !
Nilda is Back ''  ( इससे the सोंग साईकिल miz  Inez Sez ) .
In Scent of a Woman ( 1992 ) , the tango is performed by the `` The Tango Project '' , who actually appear in the dancing scene  अभिनीत al पचिनो ( the रिकॉर्डिंग प्रयुक्त is उपलब्धियाँ on एक of उनके cd एल्बम  ) .
जॉन विलियम्स arranged a संस्करण of the टुकड़ा कि appears on the  album `` Cinema Serenade '' with the violin solo performed by Itzhak Perlman .
Perlman and  विलियम्स ( conducting ) have भी  performed the piece together in live concerts .
In 2012  a नृत्य संस्करण  was released by the group `` Da Carrera '' featuring the original vocal recording by Carlos Gardel .
The baroreflex or  baroreceptor reflex is एक of the देह 's homeostatic mechanisms  for maintaining blood pressure .
It provides a negative feedback loop in which an elevated  रक्त दबाव reflexively कल्याणकारी दिल रेट to घटी इसलिए causing रक्त दबाव to घटी ; likewise , decreased रक्त दबाव  activates the baroreflex , causing heart rate to increase thus causing an increase in blood pressure .
The system relies on specialized neurons , known as  baroreceptors , in the aortic मेहराब , carotid साइनस , और elsewhere to मॉनिटर परिवर्तन  in blood pressure and relay them to the brainstem .
Subsequent  परिवर्तन in रक्त दबाव हैं mediated by  the autonomic nervous system .
Atrial natriuretic peptide forms  a समानांतर ऋणात्मक प्रतिक्रिया लूप in an endocrinological कंट्रास्ट to the renin-angiotensin  system .
The Loma Prieta earthquake , also known as the Quake of '89 and the World Series Earthquake ,  थी a प्रमुख भूकंप कि struck the सैन फ्रांसिस्को खाड़ी क्षेत्रफल of कैलिफ़ोर्निया  on October 17 , 1989 , at 5:04 pm local time .
Caused by a slip along the San Andreas Fault , the quake lasted 10–15 seconds and  measured 6.9 on दोनो the पल परिमाण स्केल ( surface-wave परिमाण 7.1  ) and on the open-ended Richter Scale .
The quake killed 63 people throughout northern California , injured 3,757  और बाएँ कुछ 3,000–12,000 लोगों  homeless .
The earthquake occurred during the warm-up practice for  the तीसरा खेल of the 1989 संसार श्रेणी , featuring दोनो of the  Bay Area 's Major League Baseball teams , the Oakland Athletics and the San Francisco Giants .
Because of game-related sports coverage , this  थी the पहला प्रमुख भूकंप in the संयुक्त राज्य to have इसके  initial jolt broadcast live on television .
Pawn in the  मानक staunton  pattern
The pawn ( ♙♟ ) is the most numerous and in most circumstances the  weakest टुकड़ा in the खेल of शतरंज , historically representing infantry or , अधिक विशेषकर  , armed peasants or pikemen .
In chess , each player begins the game with eight  प्यादे , एक on प्रत्येक वर्गाकार of the रैंक तत्काल in  front of the other pieces .
( In algebraic  संकेतन , the श्वेत प्यादे प्रारंभ on a2 , b2 , c2 , ... , h2 , जबकि ब्लैक प्यादे  start on a7 , b7 , c7 , ... , h7 . )
व्यक्तिगत प्यादे हैं referred to by the संचिका  on which they stand .
For example , one speaks of `` White 's f-pawn '' or `` Black 's  b-pawn '' , or कम commonly ( using वर्णनात्मक संकेतन )  , `` White 's king 's bishop pawn '' or `` Black 's queen 's knight pawn '' .
It is also common to refer to a rook pawn , meaning any pawn on the a- or h-file , a knight pawn  ( on the b- or g-file ) , a बिशप साहूकार ( on the c- or f-file ) , a महारानी साहूकार ( on the d-file ) , a किंग साहूकार ( on the e-file ) , और  a central pawn ( on either the d- or e-file ) .
The military forces of the  संसार have differing approaches to the enlistment of homosexual ( gay और  lesbian ) and bisexual individuals .
The  हथियारबंद शक्तियां of सबसे विकसित देशों have अभी removed नीतियों  excluding non-heterosexual individuals ( with strict policies on sexual harassment ) .
Nations that permit gay people to serve openly in the military include the 4 of the 5 members of the UN Security  परिषद ( संयुक्त राज्य , संयुक्त किंगडम , फ़्रांस , और रूस ) , the  Republic of China ( Taiwan ) , Australia , Israel , South Africa , Argentina , and all NATO members excluding Turkey .
Hydrogen production is the family of industrial methods for  generating हाइड्रोजन  .
Currently the dominant  प्रौद्योगिकी लिये सीधा उत्पादन is भाप reforming  from hydrocarbons .
Many other methods are known  सहित electrolysis और  thermolysis .
In 2006 , the  संयुक्त राज्य थी अनुमानित to  have a production capacity of 11 million tonnes of hydrogen .
5 million tonnes of hydrogen were  खपत on-site in आयल शोधन , और in the उत्पादन of अमोनिया  ( Haber process ) and methanol ( reduction of carbon monoxide ) .
0.4 million tonnes were an incidental  by-product of the chlor-alkali प्रक्रम  .
Hydrogen  उत्पादन is an अनुमानित  $ 100 billion industry .
A basis point ( often denoted as bp ,  colloquially referred to in the बहुवचन as `` bips '' , भी ज्ञात as a `` बीप '' ) is a ईकाई बराबर to एक hundredth of a प्रतिशत  point , or one part per ten thousand , 1/10000 .
The same unit is also ( rarely ) called a permyriad , literally meaning 'for ( every ) myriad ( ten thousand ) ' , and in that context is written with which looks like a percent  चिह्न ( % ) साथ दो अतिरिक्त zeroes at the समाप्त ( जैसे a stylized रूप of the चार zeros in the  denominator , although it originates as a natural extension of the percent ( % ) and permille ( ‰ ) signs ) .
A basis  पाइंट is पारिभाषित as:
1  आधार पाइंट = 1 permyriad  = one one-hundredth percent
1 bp = 1 = 0.01  % = 0.1‰ = 10−4  = = 0.0001
1 % =  100 bp = 100
Basis points are used as a convenient unit of measurement in  contexts जहाँ प्रतिशत मतभेद of कम than 1 % हैं discussed .
The most common example is interest rates , where  मतभेद in ब्याज दरों of कम than 1 % प्रति साल हैं प्रायः सार्थक  to talk about .
For example , a difference of 0.10 percentage  अंक is समतुल्य to a बदलें of 10 आधार अंक ( e.g . a 4.67 % रेट  increases by 10 basis points to 4.77 % ) .
Like percentage points , basis points avoid the ambiguity between relative and absolute  चर्चाएँ परिचय ब्याज दरों by dealing तभी साथ the निरपेक्ष बदलें in न्यूमेरिक मान  of a rate .
For example , if a report says there  रै महरूम a `` 1 % बढ़ाएँ '' इससे a 10 % ब्याज रेट , इस could refer to an बढ़ाएँ  either from 10 % to 10.1 % ( relative , 1 % of 10 % ) , or from 10 % to 11 % ( absolute , 1 % plus 10 % ) .
If , however , the report says there has been a `` 10 basis point increase '' from a 10 % interest rate , then we  जान कि the ब्याज रेट of 10 % रै increased by 0.10 % ( the निरपेक्ष बदलें ) to a 10.1 % रेट .
It is common practice in the financial industry to use basis points to denote a rate change in a financial instrument , or  the अंतर ( स्प्रेड ) between दो ब्याज दरों , सहित the yields of fixed-income प्रतिभूति  .
Since certain loans and bonds may commonly be  कोटेड in संबंध to कुछ अनुक्रमणिका or underlying सुरक्षा , वे होगा प्रायः  be quoted as a spread over ( or under ) the index .
For example , a loan that bears interest of 0.50 %  प्रति annum ऊपर the लंदन interbank offered रेट ( libor ) is कहा to  be 50 basis points over LIBOR , which is commonly expressed as `` L+50bps '' or simply `` L+50 '' .
The term `` basis  पाइंट '' रै इसके origins in व्यापार the `` आधार '' or the  spread between two interest rates .
Since the basis is usually small , these are quoted multiplied up by  10000 , और hence a `` पूरा पाइंट '' गति in the ``  basis '' is a basis point .
कंट्रास्ट साथ pips  in FX forward markets .
The relationship between percentage changes and  आधार अंक can be summarized as फ़ॉलो : 1 प्रतिशत पाइंट बदलें = 100 आधार  points , and 0.01 percentage points = 1 basis point .
So , a bond whose yield increases from 5 % to 5.5  % is कहा to बढ़ाएँ by 50 आधार अंक ; or ब्याज दरों कि have risen 1 प्रतिशत  point are said to have increased by 100 basis points .
The British Royal  परिवार is the समूह of बंद रिश्तेदारों of  the monarch of the United Kingdom .
The term is also commonly applied to the same  समूह of लोगों जो हैं the संबंध of the monarch in उसके or उसके भूमिका as sovereign of कोई of the अन्य राष्ट्रमंडल  realms , thus sometimes at variance with official national terms for the family .
Members of the Royal Family  belong to , either by जनम or विवाह , the हाउस of विंडसर , चूंकि 1917 , जब जार्ज  V changed the name of the royal house from Saxe-Coburg and Gotha .
This decision was primarily taken because Britain and her Empire were at war with  जर्मनी और दिए the अंग्रेजों royal परिवार 's दमदार जर्मनी ancestry ; it थी लगा  that its public image could be improved by choosing a more British house name .
The new name chosen , Windsor , had absolutely no connection other than as the name of the castle which  थी और continues to be a royal निवास  .
Although in the United Kingdom there is no strict legal or formal definition of who is or is not a member of the Royal Family , and different lists will include  अलग लोगों , those carrying the स्टाइल उसके or उसके majesty ( hm ) , or उसके or उसके royal highness ( hrh ) हैं सदा माना सदस्यों , जिससे प्रायः परिणाम in the अनुप्रयोग of the पद to the monarch , the consort of the monarch , the विधवा consorts of पिछला monarchs , the children of the monarch और पिछला  monarchs , the male-line grandchildren of the monarch and previous monarchs , and the spouses and the widows of a monarch 's and previous monarch 's sons and male-line grandsons .
On 30 November 1917 , King George V issued Letters Patent defining who are members of the Royal Family ; the  टेक्स्ट of the सूचना इससे the लंदन गजट is  as follows:
In 1996 ,  उसके majesty the महारानी परिवर्धित ये अक्षर पेटेंट , as थी evidenced  by this Notice from the London Gazette:
In 2013 Letters Patent were issued to extend a title and a style borne by members of the Royal Family to  अतिरिक्त व्यक्तियों to be born , evidenced by इस सूचना इससे the लंदन  Gazette:
Members and  रिश्तेदारों of the अंग्रेजों royal परिवार historically represented the monarch in विभिन्न स्थान throughout the अंग्रेजों साम्राज्य , sometimes  for extended periods as viceroys , or for specific ceremonies or events .
आज , वे प्रायः perform ceremonial और सोशल  duties throughout the United Kingdom and abroad on behalf of the United Kingdom .
Aside from the monarch , their only constitutional role  in the अफेयर्स of सरकारी is to serve , if योग्य और जब नियुक्त by अक्षर पेटेंट , as a काउंसलर of राज्य , दो or अधिक of जिसको कसरत the  authority of the Crown ( within stipulated limits ) in the indisposal or absence from the British realm of the monarch .
In the other  realms of the राष्ट्रमंडल  royalty do not serve as Counsellors of State .
However in each such realm the monarch 's family members may act  on निमित्त of , हैं वित्तपोषित by , और represent the sovereign of कि  particular state , and not the United Kingdom .
The Queen , her consort , her children and grandchildren , as well as all former sovereigns ' children and  grandchildren थाम स्थान in the पहला भाग of the आधिकारिक आदेश of पूर्वता  in England and Wales , Scotland , and Northern Ireland .
Wives of the said enjoy their husbands ' precedence , and  पतियों of राजकुमारियों हैं unofficially लकिन habitually लगाई साथ  their wives as well .
However , the Queen changed the private order of precedence in the Royal Family in favour of  राजकुमारियों ऐनी और एलेक्जेंड्रा , जो henceforth  take private precedence over the Duchess of Cornwall , who is otherwise the realm 's highest ranking woman after the Queen herself .
She did not alter the relative precedence of other born-princesses , such as the  बेटियां of उसके younger  sons .
Haiti ( ; Haitian Creole Ayiti ) , officially the  गणतंत्र of हैती ( ; ) , is a caribbean देश  .
It occupies the western , smaller portion of the island of  हिस्पानिओला , in the वृहद antillean द्वीपसमूह , जिससे  it shares with the Dominican Republic .
Ayiti ( land of high mountains ) was the indigenous  taíno or amerindian नाम लिये the  island .
The country 's  उच्चतम पाइंट is pic la selle ,  at .
The total area of  हैती is और इसके पूंजी is port-au-prince  .
Haitian Creole and  फ्रेंच हैं the आधिकारिक भाषाएं  .
Haiti 's regional , historical , and  ethno-linguistic स्थिति is अद्वितीय लिये  several reasons .
It was the first independent nation of Latin America and the Caribbean , the first black -led republic  in the संसार , और the दूसरी गणतंत्र in the americas जब it gained स्वतंत्रता in 1804 as भाग of a कामयाब  slave revolution lasting nearly a decade .
In 2012 , Haiti announced its  इरादे to तलाश संबद्ध सदस्यता  status in the African Union .
Haiti is the most populous of the  predominantly francophone स्वतंत्र राष्ट्र  in the Americas .
It is one of only two independent nations in the Americas ( along with Canada ) to  designate फ्रेंच as an आधिकारिक भाषा ; the अन्य french-speaking क्षेत्रों  are all overseas départements , or collectivités , of France .
Haiti is the most populous  पूरा member-state of the caribbean जातियाँ ( caricom  ) .
It is the poorest  देश in the americas as measured  by the Human Development Index .
Political violence has occurred  regularly throughout इसके इतिहास , अग्रणी to सरकारी  instability .
Most recently , in February 2004 , a coup d'état originating in the north of the country  मजबूर the इस्तीफा और निर्वासन of अध्यक्ष jean-bertrand aristide  .
A provisional government took  कंट्रोल साथ सुरक्षा provided by the संयुक्त  Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti ( MINUSTAH ) .
Michel  martelly , the वर्तमान अध्यक्ष , थी निर्वाचित  in the Haitian general election , 2011 .
The island has had a history of  destructive भूकंप  .
A 7.0 magnitude earthquake  struck हैती on 12 जनवरी  2010 and devastated Port-au-Prince .
The  उच्चतम विश्वसनीय मौत गिनती  was estimated at 220,000 .
Haitian government  estimates यहूद उच्चतर  .
The Presidential palace , Parliament and many  अन्य महत्वपूर्ण structures यहूद नष्ट , साथ साथ अनगिनत घरों और व्यवसायों  , leaving hundreds of thousands of people homeless .
The  देश रै yet to रिकवर इससे the 2010 भूकंप ( और subsequent incidents ) due to दोनो the गंभीरता of  the damage Haiti endured in 2010 , as well as a government that was ineffective well before the earthquake .
United States aid  संगठन have दान $ 2 अरब  .
Combined with  अन्य अंतरराष्ट्रीय दान , ये निधि हैं intended to योगदान  to the rebuilding of the country .
The  खूनी beetroots is the pseudonym of सर bob कॉर्नेलियस  Rifo , the Italian electro house and dance-punk music producer , DJ and photographer .
the खूनी beetroots is well-known  for the black Venom mask he wears during performances .
In fact , the only identifying public feature of  rifo is the साल `` 1977 '' tattooed आरपार उसके छाती , जिससे is दोनो the साल कि the निर्माता और  punk-rock was born .
`` The Bloody Beetroots DJ set ''  contains सर bob कॉर्नेलियस rifo और  Tommy Tea .
A Motorola  सलाहकार alphanumeric पेजर प्रयुक्त in ब्राज़ील  in the 1990s , operated by Teletrim
A  पेजर is a बेतार दूरसंचार यंत्र कि receives  and displays numeric or text messages , or receives and announces voice messages .
one-way pagers can तभी प्राप्त संदेश , जबकि जवाब pagers और two-way  pagers can also acknowledge , reply to , and originate messages using an internal transmitter .
Pagers operate as part of a paging system which includes one or more fixed transmitters ( or in the  मामला of जवाब pagers और two-way pagers , एक  or more base stations ) , as well as a number of pagers carried by mobile users .
These systems can range from a restaurant  प्रणाली साथ a सिंगल low-power ट्रांसमीटर , to a देशभर प्रणाली साथ  thousands of high-power base stations .
One of the first practical paging services  थी शुभारम्भ in 1950 लिये physicians  in the New York City area .
Physicians paid US $ 12 per month for the service and carried a ( 6 oz  ) पेजर कि होता प्राप्त फोन संदेश भीतर ( 25 mi )  of a single transmitter tower .
The system was manufactured by the  reevesound कम्पनी और संचालित by telanswerphone  .
In 1960 , John Francis Mitchell  संयुक्त तत्व of मोटोरोला 's walkie talkie और ऑटोमोबाइल रेडियो technologies to बनाएँ the पहला transistorized पेजर , और इससे  this point , paging technology continued to advance , and pager adoption continued to expand , until the early 1990s .
However , by the mid-1990s  , as सेल्यूलर technologies became सस्ता और अधिक widely उपलब्धियाँ , उन्नत सेवाएं  began to displace paging as a commercial product .
Today , pagers exist  largely as niche उत्पाद , ढूंढना preferential उपयोग in अनुप्रयोग  such as hospitals , public safety , and retail locations where their simplicity , high reliability , and low cost represent significant advantages .
Reevesville is a town in  dorchester काउंटी , दक्षिण कैरोलिना ,  United States .
The  जनसांख्यिकी थी 196 at the 2010  census .
As defined by the U.S. Office  of प्रबन्धन और बजट , और प्रयुक्त by the u.S. जनसांख्यिकी ब्यूरो लिये सांख्यिकीय  purposes only , Reevesville is included within the Charleston-North Charleston-Summerville metropolitan area .
Frida Kahlo de Rivera ( born Magdalena Carmen Frieda Kahlo y Calderón ; July 6 , 1907 – July 13 , 1954 )  थी a मैक्सिकन चित्रकार , born in coyoacán , जो is बेहतरीन ज्ञात  for her self-portraits .
kahlo 's जीवन began और ended in मैक्सिको  City , in her home known as the Blue House .
वो दिया उसके जनम तिथि as जुलाई 7 , 1910 , लकिन उसके जनम  certificate shows July 6 , 1907 .
Kahlo  था allegedly चाही the साल of उसके जनम to coincide साथ the साल  of the beginning of the Mexican revolution so that her life would begin with the birth of modern Mexico .
Her work  रै महरूम मनाये in मैक्सिको as emblematic of नेशनल और स्वदेशी परंपरा  , and by feminists for its uncompromising depiction of the female experience and form .
Mexican culture and Amerindian  सांस्कृतिक परंपरा हैं महत्वपूर्ण in उसके कार्य , जिससे  has been sometimes characterized as Naïve art or folk art .
Her work has also been described as `` surrealist '' , and in 1938 André  ब्रेटन , प्रिंसिपल initiator of the surrealist गति , वर्णित kahlo 's आर्ट as  a `` ribbon around a bomb '' .
kahlo था a volatile विवाह साथ the प्रसिद्ध  Mexican artist Diego Rivera .
वो suffered  lifelong health problems .
Many of her health problems were the result of  a ट्रैफ़िक दुर्घटना वो बच as a किशोरावस्था .
Recovering  इससे उसके चोटों पृथक उसके इससे अन्य लोगों और इस अलगाव  influenced her works , many of which are self-portraits of one sort or another .
Kahlo  सुझाया , `` i पेंट खुद क्युकी i am so  often alone and because I am the subject I know best . ''
She also  stated , `` i थी born a  bitch .
I  थी born a चित्रकार  . ''
300px
theresienwiese on the दिन पहले  Oktoberfest 2006
Oktoberfest is a 16-day festival celebrating beer  आयोजित annually in म्यूनिख , बायर्न , जर्मनी ,  running from late September to the first weekend in October .
It is one of the most famous events in Germany  और is the संसार 's largest मेला , साथ अधिक than  6 million people from around the world attending the event every year .
To the  स्थानीय , it is नहीं पुकारा oktoberfest , लकिन `` die wiesn ''  , after the colloquial name of the fairgrounds themselves .
The Oktoberfest is an  महत्वपूर्ण भाग of bar संस्कृति , having  been held since 1810 .
Other cities across the world also hold  oktoberfest जश्न , modeled बाद the असली  Munich event .
The Munich Oktoberfest originally took place during the sixteen  दिनों up to , और सहित , the  first Sunday in October .
In 1994 , the schedule was modified in response to German  reunification so कि if the पहला संडे in अक्तूबर जलप्रपात on the 1st or 2nd , तब the पर्व होता go on  until October 3 ( German Unity Day ) .
Thus ,  the पर्व is अभी 17 दिनों जब the पहला संडे  is October 2 and 18 days when it is October 1 .
In 2010 , the festival  lasted जबतक the पहला सोमवार in अक्तूबर , to चिह्नित  the anniversary of the event .
The festival is held in an area named the  theresienwiese ( फ़ील्ड , or मर्ग , of therese ) , प्रायः  called Wiesn for short , located near Munich 's center .
Large quantities  of oktoberfest बियर हैं खपत , साथ लगभग 7 लाख liters  served during the 16 day festival in 2007 .
Visitors may also enjoy a wide variety of traditional food such as Hendl ( chicken ) , Schweinebraten ( roast pork ) , Schweinshaxe ( grilled ham hock ) , Steckerlfisch ( grilled fish on a stick ) , Würstl ( sausages ) along with Brezeln ( Pretzel ) ,  knödel ( आलू or ब्रैड पकौड़ी ) , käsespätzle ( चीज नूडल्स ) , reiberdatschi ( आलू pancakes ) , sauerkraut or rotkohl/blaukraut ( रेड गोभी  ) along with such Bavarian delicacies as Obatzda ( a spiced cheese-butter spread ) and Weisswurst ( a white sausage ) .
A  platter साथ चीज और  garnishes
पहियों of gouda
Cheese is a  जेनेरिक पद लिये a विविध समूह of  milk-based food products .
Cheese is produced in wide-ranging  जायका , बनावट ,  and forms .
Cheese  consists of प्रोटीन और मोटे इससे मिल्क , प्रायः  the milk of cows , buffalo , goats , or sheep .
It is produced by coagulation  of the मिल्क प्रोटीन  casein .
Typically , the  मिल्क is acidified और जोड  of the enzyme rennet causes coagulation .
the solids हैं अलग  and pressed into final form .
Some  cheeses have molds on the rind or throughout  .
Most cheeses melt  at कुकिंग तापमान  .
Hundreds of types of  चीज इससे विभिन्न देशों हैं उत्पादित  .
Their styles , textures and flavors depend on the origin of the milk (  सहित the एनिमल 's आहार ) , whether वे have महरूम pasteurized , the butterfat सामग्री , the जीवाणु और मोल्ड , the प्रसंस्करण  , and aging .
Herbs , spices ,  or लकडी धुँआ may be प्रयुक्त as flavoring  agents .
The yellow to red color of many cheeses , such as Red Leicester , is  सामान्यतः formed इससे adding  annatto .
For  a few cheeses , the मिल्क is  curdled by adding acids such as vinegar or lemon juice .
Most cheeses are acidified to a lesser degree  by जीवाणु , जिससे फेरे मिल्क sugars into लैक्टिक एसिड , तब the जोड of rennet completes  the curdling .
Vegetarian alternatives to rennet are available ; most are produced by fermentation  of the कवक mucor miehei , लकिन अन्य have महरूम निकाली इससे विभिन्न प्रजाति  of the Cynara thistle family .
Cheese is valued for its portability , long  जीवन , और ऊँची सामग्री of मोटे , प्रोटीन ,  calcium , and phosphorus .
Cheese is more  कॉम्पैक्ट और रै a longer शेल्फ जीवन than मिल्क , हालांकि कैसा long a चीज होगा  keep may depend on the type of cheese ; labels on packets of cheese often claim that a cheese should be consumed within three to five days of opening .
Generally speaking , hard  cheeses पिछला longer than नरम cheeses  , such as Brie or goat 's milk cheese .
Cheesemakers near a dairy region may benefit from fresher  , lower-priced मिल्क , और निम्नतर शिपिंग  costs .
The long storage life of some  चीज , विशेषकर if it is encased in a सुरक्षात्मक rind , allows  selling when markets are favorable .
अतिरिक्त संघटक may be added to कुछ cheeses ,  such as black peppers , garlic , chives or cranberries .
A  विशेषज्ञ विक्रेता of चीज is sometimes  known as a cheesemonger .
To become an expert in this field , like wine or cooking , requires  कुछ औपचारिक शिक्षा और सालो of चख  and hands-on experience .
This position is  typically जिम्मेदार लिये सब पहलुओं of the चीज inventory ; selecting the चीज  menu , purchasing , receiving , storage , and ripening .
Legal  citation सिग्नल हैं a नियत of ब्रैड abbreviated वाक्यांश or शब्द प्रयुक्त to clarify the प्राधिकार or significance  of a legal citation as it relates to a proposition .
Signals help a reader quickly discern meaning or usefulness of a particular reference when the  सन्दर्भ itself करता नहीं provide पर्याप्त सूचना  .
Most citation signals are placed in  सामने of the citation to जिससे  they apply .
For example , in the paragraph When  लिखने a विधिक तर्क , it is महत्वपूर्ण to refer to  primary sources .
To assist readers in locating these sources ,  it is वांछनीय to उपयोग a मानकीकृत  citation format .
See generally  हार्वर्ड विधि पुनर्विलोकन संघ , the bluebook : a वर्दी  System of Citation ( 18th ed . 2005 ) .
Note  , however , कि कुछ न्यायालयों may आवश्यकता कोई  legal papers that are submitted to them to conform to a different citation format .
the signal is the phrase `` see generally  , '' जिससे indicates कि the citation  `` The Bluebook : A Uniform System of Citation ( 18th ed . 2005 ) '' provides general background information on the topic .
Neil Alden Armstrong ( August 5 , 1930 – August 25 , 2012 ) was an American  astronaut और the पहला व्यक्ति to चलना on the चंद्रमा  .
He was also an aerospace  इंजीनियर , नवल एविएटर , परीक्षण पायलट , और विश्वविद्यालयों प्राध्यापक  .
Before becoming an astronaut ,  आर्मस्ट्रांग थी an अधिकारी in the  U.S. Navy and served in the Korean War .
After the war , he earned his bachelor 's degree at Purdue University and served as a  परीक्षण पायलट at the नेशनल सलाहकार कमेटी लिये aeronautics high-speed उड़ान स्टेशन , अभी ज्ञात as the ड्राइडेन उड़ान शोध  Center , where he logged over 900 flights .
He  बाद समाप्त ग्रैजुएट अध्ययन at the विश्वविद्यालयों  of Southern California .
A participant in the U.S. Air Force 's Man in Space Soonest and X-20  dyna-soar इंसान spaceflight कार्यक्रम , आर्मस्ट्रांग joined the नासा astronaut  Corps in 1962 .
He made his first space  उड़ान , as कमांड पायलट of मिथुन 8 , in 1966 , बनने नासा  's first civilian astronaut to fly in space .
On this  मिशन , he performed the पहला डॉकिंग of दो  spacecraft , with pilot David Scott .
Armstrong 's  दूसरी और पिछला spaceflight थी as मिशन कमांडर of  the Apollo 11 moon landing , in July 1969 .
On this mission , Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin descended to the lunar surface and spent two and a half hours  exploring , जबकि माइकल कॉलिन्स remained in चंद्र कक्षा in the कमांड  Module .
Along with Collins and Aldrin , Armstrong was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom by  अध्यक्ष रिचर्ड निक्सन ; in 1978 , अध्यक्ष jimmy कार्टर प्रस्तुत आर्मस्ट्रांग the congressional स्पेस पदक of सम्मान in 1978 ; he और उसके पूर्व crewmates प्राप्त the congressional  Gold Medal in 2009 .
आर्मस्ट्रांग died in सिनसिनाटी , ओहियो , on अगस्त 25 ,  2012 , at the age of 82 , after complications from coronary artery bypass surgery .
Secretariat ( March 30 , 1970 – October 4 , 1989 ) was an  अमरीकी thoroughbred racehorse कि in 1973 became the पहला u.s . ट्रिपल क्राउन  champion in 25 years .
He set race records in all three events in the Series — the Kentucky Derby ( 1:59.4 )  , the preakness stakes ( 1:53 ) , और the belmont stakes ( 2:24 ) — रिकॉर्ड कि स्टिल  stand today .
He is considered to be one of the  महानतम thoroughbreds of सब समय  .
In 1999 , ESPN ranked  सचिवालय the 35th बेहतरीन खिलाड़ी of the 20th सदी ,  the highest ranking racehorse on the list URL_http .
He ranked second  पीछे man o ' युद्ध in the blood-horse 's सूची of  the Top 100 U.S. Racehorses of the 20th Century .
सचिवालय थी sired by बिंदास शासक आउट  of Somethingroyal , by Princequillo .
He was foaled at  the मर्ग in  Caroline County , Virginia .
Like his famous predecessor Man o ' War , Secretariat was a large chestnut  टट्टू और थी दिए the वही उपनाम , `` बिग रेड . ''
Secretariat 's  grandsire , nasrullah , is भी the great-great-grandsire  of 1977 Triple Crown winner Seattle Slew .
Owned by  पैनी chenery , he थी प्रशिक्षित by lucien laurin और मुख्यतः ridden by कनाडाई jockey रॉन turcotte  , along with apprentice jockey Paul Feliciano ( first two races ) , and veteran Eddie Maple ( last race ) .
He raced  in chenery 's मर्ग stable 's ब्लू और श्वेत checkered  colors and his groom was Eddie Sweat .
सचिवालय stood लगभग लम्बा , और weighed ,  with a 75-inch girth , in his racing prime .
मैड्रिड ( , ) is the पूंजी  and largest city of Spain .
The population of the city is roughly 3.3 million and the entire  जनसांख्यिकी of the मैड्रिड महानगर क्षेत्रफल is गणना to be around 6.5  million .
It is the third-largest city in the European Union , after London  और बर्लिन , और इसके महानगर क्षेत्रफल is the third-largest in the यूरोपीय संघ  after London and Paris .
The  नगर spans a कुल  of .
The city is located on the Manzanares river in the centre of both the country and the Community  of मैड्रिड ( जिससे comprises the नगर of मैड्रिड , इसके conurbation और विस्तारित उपनगरों और गांवों ) ; इस  community is bordered by the autonomous communities of Castile and León and Castile-La Mancha .
As the capital city of Spain , seat of government , and residence of  the स्पेनी monarch , मैड्रिड is भी the राजनैतिक , आर्थिक और सांस्कृतिक  centre of Spain .
The  वर्तमान महापौर is ana  Botella from the People 's Party ( PP ) .
The Madrid urban agglomeration has the third-largest GDP in the European Union and its influences in politics , education , entertainment , environment , media , fashion , science , culture , and  the कला सब योगदान to इसके औकात as एक of the संसार 's प्रमुख वैश्विक  cities .
Due to its economic output , high standard of  जीना , और मार्केट आकार , मैड्रिड is माना the प्रमुख वित्तीय केन्द्र of दक्षिणी यूरोपीय  and the Iberian Peninsula ; it hosts the head offices of the vast majority of the major Spanish companies , such as Telefónica , Iberia or Repsol .
Madrid is  the सबसे touristic नगर of स्पेन , the fourth-most touristic of the महाद्वीप ,  and the seventh most visited city in the world according to Forbes .
is the 10th सबसे livable नगर in the  world according to Monocle magazine , in its 2010 index .
Madrid  भी बाँधने among the 12 greenest यूरोपीय शहरों in 2010. < संदर्भ name= '' एचटीटीपी : //www.citymayors.com/environment/greenest-cities-europe.html  '' > Madrid is currently a Candidate City for the 2020 Summer Olympics .
Madrid houses the headquarters of the World Tourism Organization ( WTO ) ,  belonging to the संयुक्त राष्ट्र संगठन ( un ) , the segib , the संगठन  of Ibero-American States ( OEI ) , and the Public Interest Oversight Board ( PIOB ) .
It also hosts major international institutions regulators of Spanish : the Standing Committee of the Association of  स्पेनी भाषा अकादमियों , मुख्यालय of the royal स्पेनी अकादमी ( rae ) , the cervantes संस्थान और the न्यास of तात्कालिक  Spanish ( Fundéu ) .
Madrid  organizes मेलों as fitur , आरको , simo  TCI and the Cibeles Madrid Fashion Week .
While  मैड्रिड possesses a आधुनिक अवसंरचना , it  has preserved the look and feel of many of its historic neighbourhoods and streets .
Its landmarks include the Royal Palace of Madrid ; the Teatro Real ( Royal theatre ) with its restored 1850 Opera House ; the Buen Retiro Park , founded in 1631 ; the 19th-century National  पुस्तकालयों भवन ( संस्थापित in 1712 ) containing कुछ of स्पेन 's ऐतिहासिक अभिलेख ; a विशाल क्रमांक of नेशनल संग्रहालय , और the सुनहरी त्रिभुज of आर्ट , स्तिथ साथ the paseo डेल प्राडो और comprising तीन आर्ट संग्रहालय : प्राडो संग्रहालय , the museo nacional centro  de Arte Reina Sofía , a museum of modern art , and the Thyssen-Bornemisza Museum , which completes the shortcomings of the other two museums .
cibeles राजमहल और फव्वारा have  become the monument symbol of the city .
The path of the Via Appia  और of the via appia traiana .
Remains of the  appian रास्ता in रोम , निकट quarto  Miglio
Near  रोम  .
The Appian Way ( Latin and Italian : Via Appia ) was one  of the earliest और रणनीतिक सबसे महत्वपूर्ण रोमन सड़कें of the प्राचीन  republic .
It  कनेक्ट रोम to brindisi , apulia ,  in southeast Italy .
इसके महत्व is indicated by इसके  common name , recorded by Statius :
Appia teritur regina  longarum viarum
`` the  appian रास्ता is the महारानी  of the long roads ''
The road is named after Appius Claudius Caecus  , the रोमन censor जो began और समाप्त the पहला खण्ड as a सैन्य  road to the south in 312 BC during the Samnite Wars .
The Draupner wave , a single giant wave measured on New Year 's Day  1995 , आखिरकार पुष्टि the अस्तित्व of freak लहरें , जिससे था previously  been considered near-mythical
Rogue waves ( also known as freak waves , monster waves , killer waves , extreme waves , and abnormal waves ) are  अपेक्षाकृत विशाल और spontaneous समंदर सतह लहरें कि occur दूर आउट at समुद्र , और हैं a threat भी to  large ships and ocean liners .
In oceanography , they are more precisely defined as waves whose height is more than twice the significant wave height (  swh ) , जिससे is itself पारिभाषित as the औसत of the largest तीसरा of लहरें in a वेव  record .
इसलिए दुष्ट लहरें हैं नहीं necessarily the biggest लहरें मिला at समुद्र ; वे हैं , बल्कि  , surprisingly large waves for a given sea state .
Rogue waves seem not to have a single distinct cause , but occur where physical factors such  as ऊँची हवाएँ और दमदार currents कारण लहरें to विलय to बनाएँ a सिंगल exceptional विशाल  wave .
electress sophia of हनोवर  ( 1630–1714 )
The line of succession to the British throne is the ordered sequence of all those people eligible  to सफल to the सिंहासन of the संयुक्त किंगडम और the अन्य 15 राष्ट्रमंडल  realms .
The Act  of उपनिवेश 1701 bestowed उत्तराधिकार on the electress sophia of  Hanover and her descendants while excluding Roman Catholics .
The British government does not publish an official list of all those in line to succeed , but the work of genealogical authors and amateur researchers  suggests कि वहीँ हैं अनेक हजार लोगों potentially in  line .
At a summit in Perth , Western Australia in 2011 , the heads of government of all 16 Commonwealth realms agreed to take steps to adopt  निरपेक्ष primogeniture , समाप्त the exclusion of लोगों शादीशुदा to रोमन catholics , और मेक अन्य परिवर्तन in the उत्तराधिकार  rules .
The line of succession is also  प्रयुक्त to चुनें the counsellors of राज्य ( और a रीजेंट  if the need arises ) under the provisions of the Regency Act 1937 .
For earlier versions of the line of succession , see  इतिहास of the अंग्रेजों लकीर of  succession .
Edward Montgomery Clift (  अक्तूबर 17 , 1920july 23 , 1966 ) थी an अमरीकी फिल्मी और स्टेज कर्ता the नई यॉर्क times’  obituary noted his portrayal of `` moody , sensitive young men '' .
He often played outsiders and `` victim-heroes '' ; examples include the social climber in George Stevens 's A Place in the Sun , the anguished Catholic priest in Hitchcock 's I Confess , the doomed regular soldier Robert E. Lee Prewitt in  फ्रेड zinnemann 's इससे यहाँ to शाश्वत , और the यहूदी gi bullied by antisemites in एडवर्ड dmytryk  's The Young Lions .
Later , after a  disfiguring car क्रैश in 1956 , और दारू और  prescription drug abuse , he became erratic .
Nevertheless important roles were still his , including `` the reckless , alcoholic , mother-fixated rodeo performer '' in John Huston 's The  misfits , the शीर्षक भूमिका in हस्टन 's , और the विशेषज्ञता शिविर शिकार in स्टेनली क्रेमर 's  Judgment at Nuremberg . ''
Clift received four Academy Award nominations during  उसके करियर , तीन लिये बेहतरीन कर्ता और एक लिये बेहतरीन supporting  Actor .
The War on  आतंक ( भी ज्ञात as the वैश्विक युद्ध on आतंक ) is a पद commonly  applied to an international military campaign which started as a result of the 11 September 2001 terrorist attacks on the United States .
This resulted in an international  सैन्य अभियान to eliminate al-qaeda और अन्य उग्रवादी  organizations .
The United Kingdom and  अनेक अन्य नाटो और non-nato  nations participate in the conflict .
The phrase 'War on Terror ' was  पहला प्रयुक्त by us अध्यक्ष जार्ज W. बुश  on 20 September 2001 .
The Bush administration and the Western media have since used the term to signify a global military ,  राजनैतिक , lawful , और conceptual struggle—targeting दोनो संगठन designated as आतंकवादी  and regimes accused of supporting them .
It was typically  प्रयुक्त साथ a particular फ़ोकस on उग्रवादी islamists  , al-Qaeda , and other jihadi groups .
Although the term is not officially used by the administration of US President Barack Obama ( which instead uses the term Overseas Contingency Operation ) , it is still commonly used by politicians , in the  मीडिया और by कुछ पहलुओं of सरकारी officially , ऐसे as the संयुक्त राज्य  ' Global War on Terrorism Service Medal .
German  battleship schleswig-holstein , westerplatte  , September 1 , 1939
Destroyer USS  शॉ exploding बाद उसके आगे पत्रिका थी detonated  during the Attack on Pearl Harbor
The  प्रमुख कल्याणकारी of संसार युद्ध ii यहूद nationalistic मुद्दे , अनसुलझे मुद्दे , और resentments resulting  from World War I and the interwar period in Europe , in addition to the effects of the Great Depression in the 1930s .
the culmination of कार्यक्रम कि led to the outbreak of युद्ध हैं generally समझा to be the  1939 invasion of Poland by Germany and Soviet Russia and the 1937 invasion of the Republic of China by the Empire of Japan .
These military aggressions were the  परिणाम of निर्णय बना by the सत्तावादी सत्ताधारी नाजी elite in जर्मनी  and by the leadership of the Kwantung Army in Japan .
World War II started after these aggressive actions were met with an  आधिकारिक घोषणा of युद्ध  and/or armed resistance .
The following is a list of gods and other divine  और semi-divine आंकड़े इससे यूनानी  mythology .
the सूची करता नहीं शामिल जीव ;  for these , see List of Greek mythological creatures .
The Mitsubishi Galant is an  ऑटोमोबाइल manufactured by मित्सुबिशी मोटर्स between  1969 and 2012 .
The name was derived from the  फ्रेंच शब्द galant , अर्थ `` chivalrous  '' .
There have been nine  पृथक पीढियां , और संचयी बिक्री अभी exceed  five million .
It  began as a कॉम्पैक्ट सेडान , लकिन over the कोर्स  of its life has evolved into a larger mid-size car .
Initial production was only based in Japan , but  चूंकि 1994 the अमरीकी मार्केट रै महरूम परोसा by वाहनों समवेत at the पूर्व diamond-star मोटर्स ( dsm  ) facility in Normal , Illinois .
Blood pressure ( BP ) , sometimes referred to as arterial blood pressure ,  is the दबाव exerted by circulating रक्त upon the दीवारें of रक्त बरतन , और is एक of the प्रिंसिपल  vital signs .
When used  बगैर further specification , `` रक्त दबाव '' प्रायः  refers to the arterial pressure of the systemic circulation .
During  प्रत्येक धड़कन , रक्त दबाव varies between a अधिकतम ( systolic  ) and a minimum ( diastolic ) pressure .
The blood  दबाव in the परिसंचरण is प्रधानतया  due to the pumping action of the heart .
Differences in mean blood pressure are  जिम्मेदार लिये रक्त प्रवाह इससे एक स्थान to another  in the circulation .
The rate of mean  रक्त प्रवाह depends on the प्रतिरोध to प्रवाह प्रस्तुत  by the blood vessels .
औसत रक्त दबाव decreases as the circulating रक्त  moves away from the heart through arteries and capillaries due to viscous losses of energy .
Mean blood pressure drops over the whole circulation , although most of the fall occurs  साथ the छोटी धमनियों और arterioles  .
Gravity affects blood pressure via hydrostatic forces ( e.g. , during standing ) and  valves in रगों , श्वास , और pumping इससे संकुचन of skeletal मांसपेशियां  also influence blood pressure in veins .
Blood pressure without further specification usually refers to the systemic arterial pressure measured at a person 's upper arm and is a measure of the pressure in  the brachial धमनी , the प्रमुख धमनी in the  upper arm .
A person’s blood pressure is usually  expressed in शर्तें of the systolic दबाव over diastolic दबाव  and is measured in millimetres of mercury ( mmHg ) , for example 120/80 .
A veto  – लैटिन लिये `` i forbid '' – is the शक्ति ( प्रयुक्त by an अधिकारी of the राज्य , लिये  example ) to unilaterally stop an official action , especially the enactment of legislation .
A veto can be absolute , as  लिये उदाहरण in the संयुक्त राष्ट्र सुरक्षा परिषद , जिनकी स्थाई सदस्यों ( चीन , फ़्रांस , रूस  , United Kingdom , United States of America ) can block any resolution .
Or it can be limited , as in the legislative process of the United States , where a  two-thirds vote in दोनो the हाउस और सीनेट may ओवरराइड a अध्यक्षीय  veto of legislation .
A veto only gives power to stop changes ,  नहीं to अपनाना उन्हें ( मगर  for the rare `` amendatory veto '' ) .
यूँ a वीटो allows इसके होल्डर  to protect the status quo .
The concept of a veto body  originated साथ the रोमन  consuls and tribunes .
Either of the two consuls holding office in  a दिए साल could ब्लाक a सैन्य or सिविल निर्णय by the अन्य ; कोई ट्रिब्यून था the शक्ति  to unilaterally block legislation passed by the Roman Senate .
Sulfur  डाइऑक्साइड ( भी गंधक डाइऑक्साइड  ) is the chemical compound with the formula .
It is a  विषाक्त गैस साथ a pungent , तकलीफदेह महकते , कि is released by ज्वालामुखी  and in various industrial processes .
Since coal and petroleum often contain sulfur compounds , their combustion generates  गंधक डाइऑक्साइड जबतक the गंधक यौगिकों हैं removed पहले  burning the fuel .
Further oxidation of SO2 , usually in the  उपस्थिति of a उत्प्रेरक ऐसे as no2 , फ़ॉर्म h2so4 , और यूँ एसिड  rain .
Sulfur dioxide emissions  हैं भी a precursor to अभिकण  in the atmosphere .
Both of these impacts are cause  लिये चिंता over the पर्यावरणीय प्रभाव of ये  fuels .
Myasthenia gravis  ( इससे यूनानी μύς `` मांसपेशी '' , `` कमज़ोरी '' , और `` गंभीर '' ; abbreviated mg ) is an असंक्राम्य  neuromuscular disease leading to fluctuating muscle weakness and fatigability .
It is an  असंक्राम्य विकार , in जिससे कमज़ोरी is caused by circulating antibodies कि ब्लाक acetylcholine receptors at the postsynaptic  neuromuscular junction , inhibiting the excitatory effects of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine on nicotinic receptors throughout neuromuscular junctions .
Myasthenia is treated medically with  acetylcholinesterase inhibitors or immunosuppressants , और  , in selected cases , thymectomy .
The disease incidence is 3–30 cases per million per year and  उठती as a परिणाम of increased जागरूकता  .
MG must  be विशिष्ट इससे जन्मजात myasthenic syndromes कि can उपस्थित समान लक्षण लकिन प्रस्ताव no जवाब  to immunosuppressive treatments .
Reflective twisted  nematic द्रव क्रिस्टल प्रदर्शक  .
Polarizing filter film  साथ a लंबवत अक्ष to polarize लाइट  as it enters .
Glass substrate with ITO  electrodes .
The shapes of  ये electrodes होगा determine the आकार कि होगा appear  when the LCD is turned ON .
लंबवत ridges etched on  the surface are smooth .
मुड़ nematic द्रव  crystal .
Glass substrate with common electrode film ( ITO ) with  आड़ा ridges to लकीर up साथ the आड़ा  filter .
Polarizing filter film  साथ a आड़ा अक्ष to block/pass लाइट  .
Reflective  सतह to भेजें  light back to viewer .
( In a  backlit एलसीडी , इस परत  is replaced with a light source . )
A liquid-crystal display ( LCD )  is a चपटा फलक प्रदर्शक , इलेक्ट्रॉनिक विज़ुअल  display , or video display that uses the light modulating properties of liquid crystals .
Liquid crystals do not  emit लाइट सीधे  .
LCDs are available to display arbitrary images ( as in a general-purpose computer display ) or fixed images which can be  प्रदर्शित or छुपा , ऐसे as preset शब्द , अंक , और 7-segment प्रदर्शक as in a डिजिटल क्लॉक  .
They use the same basic technology , except that arbitrary images are made up of a  विशाल क्रमांक of छोटी पिक्सेल , जबकि अन्य प्रदर्शक have larger तत्व  .
LCDs are used in a wide range of applications including  कंप्यूटर मॉनीटर , टेलीविज़न , यंत्र panels , वायुयान कॉकपिट प्रदर्शक  , and signage .
They are common in consumer devices such as video players , gaming devices  , घड़ियाँ , घड़ियाँ , calculators , और telephones , और have replaced कैथोड रे ट्यूब ( crt ) प्रदर्शक in सबसे  applications .
They are available in a wider range of screen sizes than CRT and  प्लाज्मा प्रदर्शक , और चूंकि वे do नहीं उपयोग  phosphors , they do not suffer image burn-in .
LCDs are , however ,  susceptible to चित्र हठ  .
The LCD screen is more energy  कुशल और can be disposed of अधिक सकुशल than  a CRT .
Its low electrical power consumption  enables it to be प्रयुक्त in बैटरी -powered इलेक्ट्रॉनिक  equipment .
It  is an electronically modulated ऑप्टिकल यंत्र बना up of कोई क्रमांक of खण्ड भर साथ द्रव crystals और arrayed  in front of a light source ( backlight ) or reflector to produce images in color or monochrome .
Liquid  crystals यहूद पहला खोजा  in 1888 .
By 2008 , worldwide sales of televisions with LCD  screens exceeded सालाना बिक्री of crt इकाई ; the crt became obsolete लिये  most purposes .
The Borgata Hotel Casino and Spa is a  लक्ज़री होटल , कसीनो , और स्पा in अटलांटिक नगर , नई  Jersey , United States .
It is owned by Marina District Development , a joint venture between Boyd  गेमिंग और a divesture विश्वास स्थापित by mgm रिसॉर्ट अंतरराष्ट्रीय  .
the $ 1.1 अरब कसीनो होटल सुविधाएँ  2,002 rooms and is the largest hotel in New Jersey .
The Borgata  खोली in जुलाई 2003 as a लास vegas-style megaresort और is the top-grossing कसीनो  in Atlantic City .
A bottle of high potency  b-complex विटामिन संपूरक  pills .
A vitamin (  or ) is an सशुल्क यौगिक जरूरी by an  organism as a vital nutrient in limited amounts .
An organic chemical compound ( or related set of compounds ) is  पुकारा a विटामिन जब it can नहीं be synthesized in sufficient quantities by an सजीव ,  and must be obtained from the diet .
Thus , the term is conditional both on  the हालातों और  on the particular organism .
For example , ascorbic acid ( vitamin C ) is a vitamin for humans ,  लकिन नहीं लिये सबसे अन्य पशु , और biotin और विटामिन d हैं जरूरी  in the human diet only in certain circumstances .
By convention , the term vitamin includes  neither अन्य अनिवार्य nutrients , ऐसे as dietary खनिज , अनिवार्य वसीय acids , or अनिवार्य अमीनो acids ( जिससे हैं needed in larger  amounts than vitamins ) nor the large number of other nutrients that promote health but are otherwise required less often .
Thirteen  विटामिन हैं universally पहचाना  at present .
Vitamins are classified by their  biological और रासायनिक कार्यकलाप  , not their structure .
Thus , each `` vitamin '' refers  to a क्रमांक of vitamer यौगिकों कि सब दिखाएँ the biological कार्यकलाप संबद्ध  with a particular vitamin .
Such a set of chemicals is grouped under an alphabetized vitamin ``  जेनेरिक वर्णनकर्ता '' शीर्षक , ऐसे as `` विटामिन a `` , जिससे शामिल the  compounds retinal , retinol , and four known carotenoids .
Vitamers by definition are convertible to  the क्रियाशील रूप of the विटामिन in the देह , और हैं sometimes inter-convertible to एक  another , as well .
Vitamins have diverse  biochemical कृत्यों  .
Some have hormone-like functions as  regulators of खनिज चयापचय ( ऐसे as विटामिन d ) , or regulators of कोशिका और  tissue growth and differentiation ( such as some forms of vitamin A ) .
Others function as  antioxidants ( e.g. , विटामिन e और sometimes  vitamin C ) .
The largest number of vitamins ( such as B complex vitamins ) function as precursors for enzyme cofactors ,  कि सहायता एंजाइमों in उनके कार्य as catalysts in चयापचय .
In this role  , विटामिन may be tightly बंधी to एंजाइमों as भाग of prosthetic समूह  : For example , biotin is part of enzymes involved in making fatty acids .
Vitamins may also be less tightly  बंधी to एंजाइम catalysts as coenzymes , detachable अणुओं कि फलन  to carry chemical groups or electrons between molecules .
For  उदाहरण , फोलिक एसिड may carry मिथाइल , formyl  , and methylene groups in the cell .
Although these roles in assisting enzyme-substrate reactions are vitamins '  best-known फलन , the अन्य विटामिन कृत्यों हैं बराबर महत्वपूर्ण  .
Until the mid-1930s , when the first commercial yeast-extract vitamin B complex and semi-synthetic vitamin C supplement  टैबलेट यहूद बेची , विटामिन यहूद प्राप्त solely through खाना सेवन , और परिवर्तन in आहार ( जिससे , लिये उदाहरण , could occur दौरान a particular growing ऋतु ) प्रायः greatly altered  the types and amounts of vitamins ingested .
However ,  विटामिन have महरूम उत्पादित as कमोडिटी रसायन और बना widely उपलब्धियाँ as inexpensive  semisynthetic and synthetic-source multivitamin dietary and food supplements and additives , since the middle of the 20th century .
World Muslim population by percentage  ( pew शोध बीच , 2009  )
संसार मुस्लिम जनसांख्यिकी  in millions
Islam is the world 's second largest  धर्म बाद christianity  .
according to a 2010 पढ़ाई , islam रै  1.62 billion adherents , making up over 23 % of the world population .
Islam is the  predominant धर्म in the मध्य ईस्ट , in सहेल , in the सींग of अफ़्रीकी  and northern Africa , and in some parts of Asia .
Large  समुदायों of मुसलमान हैं भी मिला  in China , the Balkans , and Russia .
Other parts of  the संसार मेजबान विशाल मुस्लिम अप्रवासी समुदायों ; in पश्चिमी यूरोपीय , लिये उदाहरण , islam is  the second largest religion after Christianity , where it represents 6 % of the total population .
according to the pew शोध बीच  in 2010 there were 49 Muslim-majority countries .
Around 62 % of the world 's Muslims live in  दक्षिण और southeast एशिया , साथ over 1 अरब adherents  .
the largest मुस्लिम देश is इंडोनेशिया , घर to 12.7 % of the संसार 's मुसलमान  , followed by Pakistan ( 11.0 % ) , India ( 10.9 % ) , and Bangladesh ( 9.2 % ) .
परिचय 20 % of मुसलमान सजीव  in Arab countries .
In the Middle East , the non-Arab countries of Turkey and Iran are  the largest muslim-majority देशों ; in अफ़्रीकी , मिश्र और सीरियल have the सबसे populous मुस्लिम समुदायों  .
A study  conducted by the pew शोध बीच in 2010 और released  January 2011 found that there are 1.62 billion Muslims around the world .
The study found more Muslims  in the संयुक्त किंगडम than in लेबनान और  more in China than in Syria .
rhode द्वीप ( or ) , officially the राज्य of rhode द्वीप  and Providence Plantations , is a state in the New England region of the United States .
Rhode Island is the smallest in  क्षेत्रफल , the आठवीं तनिक populous , लकिन the दूसरी सबसे densely  populated of the 50 US states behind New Jersey .
Rhode Island is bordered by Connecticut to the  वेस्ट और मैसाचुसेट्स to the उत्तर और ईस्ट  , and it shares a water boundary with New York 's Long Island to the southwest .
Rhode Island was the first of the  13 असली colonies to घोषित स्वतंत्रता  from British rule , declaring itself independent on May 4 , 1776 , two months before any other colony .
The State was also the last of the thirteen original  colonies to ratify the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान  .
Rhode  द्वीप 's आधिकारिक उपनाम is `` the समंदर राज्य '' , a सन्दर्भ to the  State 's geography , since Rhode Island has several large bays and inlets that amount to about 14 % of its total area .
Its land area is , but its  कुल क्षेत्रफल is significantly larger  .
Dubai ( ; ' , ) is a city in the  संयुक्त अरब अमीरात , स्तिथ भीतर  the emirate of the same name .
The emirate of Dubai is located on the southeast  coast of the पारसी गल्फ on the arabian प्रायद्वीप और is एक of the सात अमीरात  that make up the country .
It has the largest population in the UAE ( 2,106,177 )  और the second-largest जमीन territory by क्षेत्रफल ( 4,114 km2 ) बाद abu  Dhabi .
Dubai and Abu  धाबी , the नेशनल पूंजी , हैं the तभी दो अमीरात to have वीटो शक्ति over नाजुक matters  of national importance in the country 's legislature .
The city of Dubai is located on the emirate 's northern  तटरेखा और heads up the dubai-sharjah-ajman महानगर क्षेत्रफल  .
Dubai is nowadays often misperceived as a country or  city-state और , in कुछ मामले , the uae as a पूरे रै महरूम वर्णित as  'Dubai ' .
The earliest mention of Dubai is in  1095 ad , और the earliest अंकित उपनिवेश in  the region dates from 1799 .
The Sheikhdom of Dubai was formally established in 1833 by Sheikh Maktoum bin Butti Al-Maktoum when he persuaded around 800 members of his tribe of the Bani Yas , living in what was then the Second Saudi  राज्य और अभी भाग of सऊदी अरब , to follow उसे to the दुबई क्रीक by the abu falasa गोत्र of  the Bani Yas .
It remained under the tribe 's control when the United Kingdom  assumed सुरक्षा of the sheikhdom in 1892 और joined the nascent संयुक्त अरब अमीरात  upon independence in 1971 as the country 's second emirate .
Its strategic geographic location made the town an important trading hub and by the  शुरूआत of the 20th सदी , दुबई थी already an महत्वपूर्ण क्षेत्रीय बंदरगाहों  .
Today , Dubai has emerged as a cosmopolitan  metropolis कि रै grown steadily to become a वैश्विक नगर और a कारोबार और सांस्कृतिक  hub of the Middle East and the Persian Gulf region .
Although Dubai 's economy was historically built on the oil industry , the emirate 's Western-style model of business drives its economy with the  प्रमुख revenues अभी coming इससे पर्यटन , रियल एस्टेट , और वित्तीय  services .
Dubai has recently attracted world attention through many innovative large  निर्माण प्रोजेक्ट और खेल कार्यक्रम  .
The  नगर रै become सांकेतिक लिये इसके skyscrapers और high-rise इमारतें , ऐसे as the संसार  's tallest Burj Khalifa , in addition to ambitious development projects including man-made islands , hotels , and some of the largest shopping malls in the region and the world .
This increased attention has also  highlighted मजदूर और इंसान अधिकारों मुद्दे concerning  the city 's largely South Asian paid workforce .
Dubai 's property market  अनुभवी a प्रमुख deterioration in 2008–2009 as a परिणाम  of the worldwide economic downturn following the financial crisis of 2007-2008 .
However , Dubai has made a steady  और क्रमिक रिकवरी साथ सहायता coming  from neighboring emirates .
The handful of new projects  कि हैं in the पाइपलाइन have महरूम समर्थ  to help Dubai real estate make a comeback .
As of 2012 , Dubai is the 22nd most expensive city in the world , and the most  महंगी नगर in the मध्य ईस्ट , surpassing इसराईल 's tel aviv ( 31st )  .
Dubai  रै भी महरूम रेटेड as एक of the बेहतरीन स्थान to सजीव in the मध्य  East , including by US American global consulting firm Mercer who rated the city as the best place to live in the Middle East in 2011 .
The following is a list of colleges  और विश्वविद्यालयों in the u.S. राज्य of  Illinois .
सतह of the अटलांटिक समंदर बैठक the  Earth 's planetary boundary layer and troposphere .
Waves on an  समंदर coast .
इस एनिमेशन उपयोग धरती विज्ञान आंकड़ा इससे a किस्में of सेंसर on नासा धरती observing satellites to माप शारीरिक  oceanography parameters such as ocean currents , ocean winds , sea surface height and sea surface temperature .
An ocean ( ; the World Ocean of classical antiquity ) is a body of saline water that  composes a विशाल भाग of a ग्रह 's जलमंडल  .
In the context of  धरती , it refers to एक or सब of the प्रमुख विभाजन of the ग्रह 's संसार समंदर – वे हैं , in descending अनुक्रम of  area , the Pacific , Atlantic , Indian , Southern ( Antarctic ) , and Arctic Oceans .
The word `` sea `` is often used interchangeably with `` ocean '' ,  लकिन सख्ती बोलना a समुद्र is a देह of saline जल  ( possibly a division of the World Ocean ) partly or fully enclosed by land .
Earth is the only planet known to have an  समंदर ( or कोई विशाल amounts of खोलें द्रव  water ) .
Approximately 72 % of the planet 's surface ( ~3.6x108 km2 ) is covered by saline water that is  customarily विभाजित into अनेक प्रिंसिपल महासागर और छोटी  seas , with the ocean covering approximately 71 % of the Earth 's surface .
In terms of the  जलमंडल of the धरती  , the ocean contains 97 % of the Earth 's water .
Oceanographers have  stated कि आउट of 97 % , तभी 5 % of the समंदर  as a whole on Earth has been explored .
Because it is the principal component  of धरती 's जलमंडल , the संसार समंदर is अभिन्न to सब ज्ञात जीवन  , forms part of the carbon cycle , and influences climate and weather patterns .
The total volume  is लगभग 1.3 अरब घन किलोमीटर  ( 310 million cu mi ) with an average depth of .
it is the आवास of 230,000 ज्ञात प्रजाति , हालांकि much of the समंदर  's depths remain unexplored and it is estimated that over two million marine species exist .
The origin of Earth 's oceans is still unknown , but oceans are believed to have formed  in the hadean काल और may have महरूम the impetus लिये the emergence  of life .
Extraterrestrial oceans may  be रचित of a चौड़ी दायरा of तत्व और यौगिकों  .
The only  पुष्टि विशाल stable लाशें of extraterrestrial सतह  liquids are the lakes of Titan , although there is evidence for the existence of oceans elsewhere in the Solar System .
Early in their geologic histories ,  मंगल और शुक्र हैं theorized to have था  large water oceans .
The Mars ocean hypothesis suggests that nearly a third of the surface of Mars was once covered by water , though the water on  मंगल is no longer oceanic , और a runaway ग्रीनहाउस प्रभाव may have boiled दूर the वैश्विक  ocean of Venus .
Compounds such as salts and ammonia dissolved in water lower its freezing point , so that water  might मौजूद in विशाल quantities in extraterrestrial environments  as brine or convecting ice .
Unconfirmed oceans are speculated  beneath the सतह of अनेक बौना ग्रह और प्राकृतिक satellites ; notably , the समंदर  of Europa is believed to have over twice the water volume of Earth .
the सौर प्रणाली 's गैस दानव ग्रह हैं भी believed  to possess liquid atmospheric layers of yet to be confirmed compositions .
Oceans may also exist on exoplanets and exomoons , including  सतह महासागर of द्रव जल भीतर a परितारकीय  habitable zone .
समंदर ग्रह हैं a काल्पनिक प्रकार of  planet with a surface completely covered with liquid .
Elvis  आरोन प्रेस्ली ( जनवरी 8 , 1935 – अगस्त 16  , 1977 ) was an American singer and actor .
A cultural icon , he  is commonly ज्ञात by the सिंगल नाम  Elvis .
One of the most popular musicians of the 20th  सदी , he is प्रायः referred to as the `` किंग of चट्टान और फेंकें '' or `` the किंग  '' .
Born in  tupelo , मिसिसिपी , प्रेस्ली स्थानांतरित to  Memphis , Tennessee , with his family at the age of 13 .
He began his career there in 1954 ,  working साथ सूर्य रिकॉर्ड मालिक sam phillips , जो चाही to लाओ the ध्वनि  of African-American music to a wider audience .
Accompanied by guitarist Scotty Moore and bassist Bill Black , Presley  थी the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण popularizer of rockabilly , an uptempo , backbeat -ड्राइवn  fusion of country and rhythm and blues .
RCA Victor  acquired उसके अनुबंध in a सौदे arranged by कर्नल tom पार्कर , जो गई  on to manage the singer for over two decades .
Presley 's first  आरसीए सिंगल , `` heartbreak होटल `` ,  released in January 1956 , was a number-one hit .
He became the leading figure of the newly popular sound of rock and roll with a series  of संजाल टेलीविज़न दिखावे और chart-topping रिकॉर्ड  .
His energized interpretations of songs , many from African-American sources , and his  uninhibited प्रदर्शन स्टाइल बना उसे enormously popular—and विवादास्पद  .
In November  1956 , he बना उसके फिल्मी डेब्यू  in Love Me Tender .
Drafted into military  सेवा in 1958 , प्रेस्ली relaunched उसके रिकॉर्डिंग  career two years later with some of his most commercially successful work .
He  मंचन few कॉन्सर्ट however , और हिदायत by पार्कर , proceeded to devote  much of the 1960s to making Hollywood movies and soundtrack albums , most of them critically derided .
In 1968 , after seven years away from the stage , he returned to live performance in a celebrated  वापसी टेलीविज़न खास कि led to an विस्तारित लास वेगास कॉन्सर्ट रेसिडेंसी और a स्ट्रिंग  of profitable tours .
In 1973 Presley staged the first  कॉन्सर्ट ब्रॉडकास्ट globally via उपग्रह , aloha  from Hawaii .
Prescription drug abuse severely deteriorated his health  , और he died एकाएक in 1977  at the age of 42 .
प्रेस्ली is regarded as एक of the सबसे  important figures of 20th-century popular culture .
He had a versatile voice and unusually wide success  encompassing अनेक जाति  , including country , pop ballads , gospel , and blues .
He is the best-selling  सोलो कलाकार in the इतिहास of लोकप्रिय म्यूज़िक  .
मनोनीत लिये 14 प्रतिस्पर्धी grammys , he जीती तीन , और प्राप्त the ग्रैमी  Lifetime Achievement Award at age 36 .
He has been inducted into  अनेक म्यूज़िक हॉल of कीर्ति  .
A  कांच of रूट  beer with foam
Root beer is a carbonated , sweetened beverage , originally  बना using the रूट of a sassafras संयंत्र ( or the छाल of  a sassafras tree ) as the primary flavor .
रूट बियर , popularized in उत्तर अमेरिका , आता  in two forms : alcoholic and soft drink .
The historical root beer was analogous to  छोटी बियर in कि the प्रक्रम provided a पेय साथ a बहुत कम दारू  content .
Although roots  हैं प्रयुक्त as the सोर्स of अनेक नरम पेय  throughout the world , often different names are used .
Fluorescent minerals emit  दृश्य लाइट जब उजागर to  ultraviolet light
Fluorescence is the emission of  लाइट by a पदार्थ कि रै अवशोषित लाइट or अन्य  electromagnetic radiation .
It is a form of  संदीप्ति .
In most  मामले , the उत्सर्जित लाइट रै a longer wavelength , और इसलिए निम्नतर  energy , than the absorbed radiation .
However , when the absorbed electromagnetic radiation is intense , it is possible for one electron to absorb two  photons ; इस two-photon अवशोषण can सीसे to उत्सर्जन of विकिरण having a shorter wavelength than the अवशोषित विकिरण  .
The emitted  विकिरण may भी be of the वही wavelength as  the absorbed radiation , termed `` resonance fluorescence '' .
The most striking examples of fluorescence occur when the  अवशोषित विकिरण is in the पराबैंगनी प्रदेश of the वर्णक्रम , और यूँ अदृश्य to the इंसान नजर , और the उत्सर्जित लाइट is in  the visible region .
Fluorescence has many practical applications , including mineralogy , gemology ,  रासायनिक सेंसर ( प्रतिदीप्ति स्पेक्ट्रमिकी ) , fluorescent लेबलिंग , dyes , biological डिटेक्टरों  , and , most commonly , fluorescent lamps .
Informal logic , intuitively , refers to the  सिद्धान्त of लॉजिक और लॉजिकल विचार बाहर of a औपचारिक सेटिंग  .
However , perhaps because of the informal in the title ,  the precise परिभाषा of अनौपचारिक लॉजिक  is a matter of some dispute .
Ralph H.  जॉनसन और J. एंथोनी ब्लेयर define अनौपचारिक लॉजिक as `` a शाखा of लॉजिक जिनकी कार्य is to develop non-formal मानकों , मापदण्ड  , procedures for the analysis , interpretation , evaluation , criticism and construction of argumentation . ''
This definition reflects what had been implicit in their  अभ्यास और कया अन्य यहूद doing in उनके अनौपचारिक लॉजिक ग्रन्थ  .
Informal logic is associated with ( informal ) fallacies ,  नाजुक सोच , the सोच कौशल गति और the interdisciplinary  inquiry known as argumentation theory .
Frans H. van Eemeren writes that the label `` informal logic '' covers  a `` संग्रहण of normative approaches to the पढ़ाई of तर्क  in ordinary language that remain closer to the practice of argumentation than formal logic . ''
USA annual  रियल जीडीपी 1910–60 , साथ the सालो  of the Great Depression ( 1929–1939 ) highlighted .
Unemployment rate in the US 1910–1960 , with the years of the  ग्रेट अवसाद ( 1929–1939 ) highlighted  .
The Great Depression began in August of 1929 , when the  संयुक्त राज्य अर्थव्यवस्था पहला गई into an आर्थिक  recession .
हालांकि the देश खर्च दो महीने साथ घटती जीडीपी , it थी नहीं जबतक the वॉल गली  Crash of October , 1929 that the effects of a declining economy were felt , and a major worldwide economic downturn ensued .
The market crash marked the beginning of a decade of high unemployment , poverty , low profits , deflation ,  plunging फार्म incomes , और खोया अवसर लिये आर्थिक विकास और निजी उन्नति  .
Although its causes are still uncertain and controversial ,  the जाल प्रभाव थी a अचानक और सामान्य घाटा of विश्वास in the आर्थिक  future .
The usual explanations include numerous factors , especially high consumer debt ,  ill-regulated बाज़ार कि permitted overoptimistic लोन by बैंको और निवेशकों , और the कमी of high-growth नई उद्योग , सब interacting to बनाएँ a downward आर्थिक सर्पिल of घटाया बिता , गिरना  confidence , and lowered production .
Industries that suffered the most included construction  , कृषि as dust-bowl शर्तें persisted in the agricultural heartland , शिपिंग , खनन , और  logging as well as durable goods like automobiles and appliances that could be postponed .
The economy  पहुँचे नीचे in the शीत of 1932–33 ; तब आए चार सालो of बहुत रैपिड विकास  until 1937 , when the Recession of 1937 brought back 1934 levels of unemployment .
the अवसाद caused  major political changes in America .
Three years into the depression , Herbert  हूवर खोया the 1932 अध्यक्षीय चुनाव to फ्रैंकलिन delano रूज़वेल्ट  in a sweeping landslide .
Roosevelt 's economic recovery plan , the New Deal , instituted unprecedented programs for relief , recovery  और सुधार , और brought परिचय a प्रमुख realignment of अमरीकी  politics .
The Depression also resulted in an  बढ़ाएँ of करणों of लोगों to अन्य देशों लिये the पहला समय in  American history .
लिये उदाहरण , कुछ आप्रवासियों गई वापस to उनके देशी देशों ,  and some native US citizens went to Canada , Australia , and South Africa .
It also  resulted in the द्रव्यमान माइग्रेशन of लोगों इससे badly hit क्षेत्रों in the ग्रेट मैदान और the दक्षिण to स्थान ऐसे as कैलिफ़ोर्निया और the उत्तर , क्रमशः  ( see Okies and the Great Migration of African Americans ) .
Racial tensions also  increased दौरान इस समय  .
By the 1940s immigration  था लौटे वापस to  normal , and emigration declined .
A well-known example of an  emigrant थी फ़्रैंक mccourt , जो गई to आयरलैंड , as  recounted in his book Angela 's Ashes .
The  मेमोरी of the अवसाद भी तराशा आधुनिक theories of अर्थशास्त्र और resulted in अनेक परिवर्तन in कैसा the  government dealt with economic downturns , such as the use of stimulus packages , Keynesian economics , and Social Security .
It also shaped modern American literature , resulting in famous novels such as John Steinbeck 's ``  the अंगूर of प्रकोप `` और `` of चूहे और मेन ``  .
The Great  अवसाद of the 1930s प्रारंभ साथ the भण्डार  market crash of October 1929 .
तुर्कों ( ) , officially the गणतंत्र of तुर्कों , is a transcontinental देश , स्तिथ ज़्यादातर on  Anatolia in Western Asia and on East Thrace in Southeastern Europe .
Turkey is  bordered by आठ देशों : बुल्गारिया to the उत्तरपश्चिम ; यूनानियों to the वेस्ट ; जॉर्जिया  to the northeast ; Armenia , Iran and the Azerbaijani exclave of Nakhchivan to the east ; and Iraq and Syria to the southeast .
The Mediterranean Sea is to the  दक्षिण ; the ईजियन समुद्र is to the वेस्ट ; और the ब्लैक  Sea is to the north .
The Sea of Marmara , the Bosphorus and the Dardanelles ( which together form the  तुर्की straits ) demarcate the boundary between thrace और आनातोलिया ; वे भी पृथक  Europe and Asia .
Turkey 's location at the crossroads of  यूरोपीय और एशिया makes it a देश of significant geostrategic  importance .
The country  's आधिकारिक भाषा is तुर्की , a turkic भाषा  , which is spoken by approximately 85 % of the population as mother tongue .
The most numerous  जातीय समूह is the turks , जो constitute between  70 % and 75 % of the population according to The World Factbook .
Kurds are the largest  जातीय अल्पसंख्यक और , according to the वही सोर्स , क्रमांक around  18 % of the population while other ethnic minorities are estimated to be at 7–12 % .
The vast majority  of the जनसांख्यिकी is  Muslim .
The area now called Turkey has been inhabited since the  paleolithic , सहित विभिन्न प्राचीन आनातोलियाई सभ्यताओं  and Thracian peoples .
After Alexander the Great 's  conquest , the क्षेत्रफल थी hellenized , जिससे जारी साथ the  Roman rule and the transition into the Byzantine Empire .
the सलजूक़ turks began migrating into the क्षेत्रफल in the 11th सदी , starting the प्रक्रम of turkification  , which was greatly accelerated by the Seljuk victory over the Byzantines at the Battle of Manzikert in 1071 .
The Seljuk Sultanate  of rûm शासित आनातोलिया जबतक the mongol आक्रमण in 1243 ,  upon which it disintegrated into several small Turkish beyliks .
Starting from the late 13th century , the Ottoman beylik  संयुक्त आनातोलिया और निर्मित an साम्राज्य encompassing much of southeastern  Europe , Western Asia and North Africa .
After the  उस्मानी साम्राज्य collapsed following इसके शिकस्त in संसार युद्ध i , भाग  of it were occupied by the victorious Allies .
A cadre of  यंग सैन्य अधिकारियों , led by mustafa kemal अतातुर्क और  his colleagues , organized a successful resistance to the Allies ; in 1923 they established the modern Republic of Turkey , with Atatürk as its first president .
Turkey is a democratic , secular ,  एकात्मक , संवैधानिक गणतंत्र  with a diverse cultural heritage .
Turkey has become  increasingly एकीकृत साथ the वेस्ट through सदस्यता in संगठनों  such as the Council of Europe , NATO , OECD , OSCE and the G-20 major economies .
Turkey began full membership negotiations with the European  संघ in 2005 , having महरूम an संबद्ध सदस्य of the यूरोपीय आर्थिक जातियाँ चूंकि 1963 और having  joined the EU Customs Union in 1995 .
Turkey has also fostered close cultural , political and economic relations  साथ the मध्य ईस्ट , काकेशस , the turkic राज्य of सेंट्रल एशिया और the अफ़्रीकी देशों through सदस्यता in संगठनों ऐसे as the turkic परिषद  , Joint Administration of Turkic Arts and Culture , Organisation of Islamic Cooperation and the Economic Cooperation Organisation .
Turkey 's growing  अर्थव्यवस्था और राजनयिक पहलों have led to  its recognition as a regional power .
तुर्कों is the संसार 's 17th largest अर्थव्यवस्था by नाममात्र जीडीपी और the  16th largest by purchasing power parity .
Caryn Elaine Johnson , best known as Whoopi Goldberg ( , ( born November 13 , 1955 ) is an American  comedienne , अभिनेत्री , singer-songwriter , राजनैतिक activist , लेखक और  talk show host .
Goldberg made her  फिल्मी डेब्यू in the रंग जामुनी ( 1985 ) ,  playing Celie , a mistreated black woman in the Deep South .
She received a  नामांकन लिये the अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन अभिनेत्री और जीती उसके  first Golden Globe Award for her role in the film .
In  1990 , वो निभाई oda mae भूरा , a wacky मानसिक helping a slain man ( पैट्रिक swayze  ) save his lover ( Demi Moore ) in the blockbuster Ghost .
This performance won her a second Golden Globe and an Academy Award for Best  supporting अभिनेत्री ; इस बना गोल्डबर्ग तभी the दूसरी ब्लैक स्त्री in the इतिहास of the अकादमी पुरस्कार to जीत  an acting Oscar—the first being Hattie McDaniel who won for Gone With the Wind in 1939 .
Notable later films include Sister Act and Sister Act 2 ,  the खिलाड़ी , बना in अमेरिका , कैसा स्टेला मिला उसके नाली  Back , Girl , Interrupted and Rat Race .
She is also acclaimed for her roles as the bartender Guinan in Star Trek : The Next Generation , as  टेरी doolittle in jumpin ' जोकर फ्लैश , और as कार्मेन tibideaux in ग्ली , as खूब as the आवाज़ of shenzi the लकड़बग्घा  in The Lion King .
Goldberg has been  मनोनीत लिये 13 एमी पुरस्कार  for her work in television .
She  थी co-producer of the लोकप्रिय खेल  show Hollywood Squares from 1998 to 2004 .
वो रै महरूम the मॉडरेटर of the दिन  talk show The View since 2007 .
Goldberg  रै a ग्रैमी , दो दिन emmys , दो सुनहरी ग्लोब्स  , a Tony ( for production , not acting ) , and an Oscar .
In addition , Goldberg has a British  अकादमी फिल्मी पुरस्कार , चार लोगों 's चुनाव पुरस्कार , और रै महरूम सम्मानित साथ  a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame .
She is one of the few  मनोरंजनकर्ता जो have जीती an एमी , ग्रैमी , ऑस्कर , और  Tony Award .
Augusta  is a संचित नगर in the u.S. राज्य of जॉर्जिया  , located at the fall line of the Savannah River , at the head of its navigable portion .
As of the 2010 census , the Augusta– Richmond County population was 195,844 not counting  the unconsolidated शहरों of hephzibah और  Blythe .
Augusta is the principal city of the Augusta –  रिचमंड काउंटी महानगर सांख्यिकीय क्षेत्रफल , जिससे as of 2010 था an अनुमानित जनसांख्यिकी of 556,877 , बनाना  it both the second-largest city and the second-largest metro area in the state after Atlanta .
It is the 116th-largest  नगर in the संयुक्त  States .
Internationally , Augusta  is बेहतरीन ज्ञात लिये होस्टिंग the मास्टर्स  Tournament in golf each spring .
A CD-ROM ( ) is a pre-pressed  कॉम्पैक्ट डिस्क जिससे contains आंकड़ा .
The name is  an एक्रोनिम जिससे स्टैंड  for `` Compact Disc Read-only memory `` .
Computers can read  cd-roms , लकिन can नहीं  write on them .
CD-ROMs are popularly used to distribute computer software , including video games and multimedia  अनुप्रयोग , हालांकि कोई आंकड़ा can be भंडारित ( up to the क्षमता  limit of a disc ) .
Some CDs , called enhanced CDs , hold  दोनो कंप्यूटर आंकड़ा और ऑडियो साथ the latter सक्षम of होने निभाई on a cd खिलाड़ी , जबकि आंकड़ा ( ऐसे as तन्त्र  or digital video ) is only usable on a computer ( such as ISO 9660 format PC CD-ROMs ) .
The Yellow Book  is the तकनीकी मानक कि defines the  format of CD-ROMs .
One of a set of color-bound  किताबे कि contain the तकनीकी विशेषताएँ लिये सब cd स्वरुप , the पीला  Book , created by Sony and Philips , was the first extension of Compact Disc Digital Audio .
It  adapted the स्वरूप  to hold any form of data .
The Chicago Blackhawks ( spelled as Black Hawks before 1986 , and  ज्ञात colloquially as the चीलों ) हैं a पेशेवर बर्फ हॉकी टोली आधारित in  Chicago , Illinois .
They are members of the  सेंट्रल प्रभाग of the पश्चिमी सम्मेलन of the नेशनल  Hockey League ( NHL ) .
They have won four Stanley Cup  championships चूंकि उनके founding in 1926 , सबसे recently in 2009–10  .
The Blackhawks are one of the Original Six NHL  टीमों , साथ साथ the डेट्रॉयट रेड विंग्स , मॉन्ट्रियल canadiens , टोरंटो  Maple Leafs , Boston Bruins and New York Rangers .
Since the  ब्लैकहॉक्स have निभाई उनके घर खेल at the संयुक्त बीच बाद having खर्च 65  years playing at Chicago Stadium .
Lent celebrants  carrying आउट a गली बारात  during Holy Week .
The violet color is  प्रायः संबद्ध साथ penance और detachment  .
Similar Christian penitential  अभ्यास is देखी in अन्य कैथोलिक देशों , sometimes  associated with mortification of the flesh .
granada , निकारागुआ  .
Lent ( Latin : Quadragesima ) is a solemn observance in the liturgical year  of अनेक ईसाई denominations , स्थायी  for a period of approximately six weeks leading up to Easter Sunday .
In the general  latin-rite और सबसे पश्चिमी denominations lent is लिया to चलाएं इससे राख  Wednesday to Maundy Thursday ( Holy Thursday ) morning or to Easter Eve .
In the Catholic Church , Lent lasts until Holy  गुरुवार , जबकि अन्य denominations  run until Easter Eve .
The  परंपरागत purpose of lent is the तैयारी of the आस्तिक through  prayer , penance , repentance , almsgiving , and self-denial .
Its institutional purpose is heightened in the annual commemoration of Holy Week , marking the death , burial and resurrection of Jesus , which recalls the events of the Bible when Jesus is  crucified on शुभ शुक्रवार , जिससे तब culminates in the जश्न on ईस्टर संडे of the क़यामत of यीशु मसीह .
During Lent , many of the  वफादार कमिट to उपवास or giving up निश्चित प्रकार of luxuries  as a form of penitence .
The Stations of the Cross , a devotional commemoration of  मसीह 's carrying the क्रॉस और of उसके निष्पादन  , are often observed .
Many Roman Catholic and some Protestant churches  हटाएँ पुष्प इससे उनके altars , जबकि crucifixes , धार्मिक मूर्तियाँ , और अन्य विस्तृत धार्मिक प्रतीकों हैं प्रायः रहमत in बैंगनी fabrics in solemn  observance of the event .
In certain  परहेज़गारों कैथोलिक देशों , कुछ adherents चिह्नित the  season with the traditional abstention from the consumption of meat .
in कुछ देशों , ग्रैंड धार्मिक जुलूसों और सांस्कृतिक कस्टम हैं observed , और the वफादार attempt to  visit seven churches during Holy Week in honor of Jesus Christ heading to Mount Calvary .
Lent is traditionally described as lasting for forty days , in commemoration  of the चालीस दिनों जिससे , according to the gospels of मैथ्यू , चिह्नित और ल्यूक , यीशु खर्च उपवास in the मरुस्थल पहले the शुरूआत  of his public ministry , where he endured temptation by the Devil .
However , different Christian  denominations गणना the चालीस दिनों of  Lent differently .
In most Western traditions the Sundays are not counted as part of Lent ; thus the  काल इससे राख बुधवार जबतक ईस्टर consists of 40 दिनों जब the  Sundays are excluded .
However in  the रोमन कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर lent is अभी लिया to समाप्त on पावन गुरुवार बल्कि  than Easter Eve , and hence lasts 38 days excluding Sundays , or 44 days in total .
This event , along with  इसके परहेज़गारों कस्टम हैं observed by catholics , lutherans  , Methodists , Presbyterians , and Anglicans .
स्थान of chernobyl नाभिकीय  power plant
The abandoned  नगर of pripyat साथ chernobyl संयंत्र  in the distance
Abandoned  आवास  blocks in Pripyat
The Chernobyl disaster ( , Chornobylska Katastrofa – Chornobyl Catastrophe ) was a catastrophic nuclear accident that occurred on 26 April 1986 at the  chernobyl नाभिकीय शक्ति संयंत्र in युक्त ( तब officially the यूक्रेनी ssr ) , जिससे थी अंतर्गत the सीधा क्षेत्राधिकार  of the central authorities of the Soviet Union .
An explosion and fire released large quantities of  रेडियोसक्रिय अणु into the माहौल , जिससे स्प्रेड over much of the पश्चिमी  USSR and Europe .
The Chernobyl disaster is widely considered to have been the worst nuclear power plant accident in history , and is one of only two classified as a level 7 event on the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय नाभिकीय इवेंट स्केल ( the अन्य होने the फुकुशिमा daiichi नाभिकीय विपत्ति in 2011 )  .
The battle  to contain the संदूषण और avert a वृहद प्रलय ultimately शामिल  over 500,000 workers and cost an estimated 18 billion rubles .
The official Soviet casualty count of 31 deaths has been  विवादित , और long-term प्रभाव ऐसे as cancers और  deformities are still being accounted for .
In grammar , a subject complement is a predicative expression that  फ़ॉलो a linking क्रिया ( copula ) और कि complements ( completes ) the विषय of the वाक्य by either  ( 1 ) renaming it or ( 2 ) describing it .
in the पूर्व मामला , a renaming संज्ञा phrase  such as a noun or pronoun is called a predicative nominal .
An adjective following the copula  और describing the विषय is पुकारा a predicative  adjective .
In either case the predicative complement  in प्रभाव mirrors  the subject .
Subject complements are used with a small class of verbs called linking verbs or copula ,  of जिससे be is the सबसे  common .
Since copula are stative  क्रियाएँ , विषय complements हैं  not affected by any action of the verb .
Subject complements are  typically नहीं clause वितर्क , nor हैं वे clause  adjuncts .
Throughout the fifty-five year  इतिहास of the ग्रैमी पुरस्कार , अनेक significant  records have been set .
This page only includes the  प्रतिस्पर्धी पुरस्कार जीती by विभिन्न कलाकारों  .
This does not include the various special awards that are presented by the National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences such as  आजीवन उपलब्धि पुरस्कार ,  Trustees Awards , Technical Awards or Legend Awards .
The page however does  शामिल अन्य non-performance सम्बन्धित grammys ( ज्ञात  as the Craft & Production Fields ) that may have been presented to the artist ( s ) .
Marshall Bruce Mathers III ( born October 17 , 1972 ) , better known by his stage name  एमिनेम ( stylized as eminǝm ) और by उसके alter अहंकार पतला छायादार , is an अमरीकी rapper , रिकार्ड निर्माता , songwriter और कर्ता  .
Eminem , along with  उसके सोलो करियर , is a सदस्य of उसके समूह d12 , और भी एक  half of the hip hop duo Bad Meets Evil , with Royce da 5'9 '' .
Eminem is  एक of the best-selling कलाकारों  in the world and is the best-selling artist of the 2000s .
He has been listed and ranked as one of the  महानतम कलाकारों of सब समय by अनेक मैगज़ीन , सहित रोलिंग स्टोन पत्रिका जिससे क्रमित उसे 82nd on इसके सूची of the  100 Greatest Artists of All Time .
The same magazine declared  उसे the किंग of हिप हॉप .
Including his  कार्य साथ d12 और ख़राब meets दुष्ट , एमिनेम रै  achieved ten number-one albums on the Billboard 200 .
He has sold more than 100 million records worldwide , including 42 million tracks and 49.1  लाख एल्बम in the संयुक्त राज्य  .
As an underground rapper Eminem released  उसके डेब्यू सोलो एल्बम ,  Infinite in 1996 .
The album was a  नाजुक और वाणिज्यिक  failure .
He gained mainstream  लोकप्रियता in 1999 बाद the रिलीज of उसके major-label  debut album The Slim Shady LP .
the lp भी अर्जित एमिनेम उसके पहला ग्रैमी  Award for Best Rap Album .
His next  दो रिकॉर्ड the मार्शल mathers lp , और the एमिनेम दिखाएँ , भी जीती बेहतरीन रैप एल्बम ग्रैमी पुरस्कार  , making Eminem the first artist to win Best Rap Album for three consecutive LPs .
This was  followed by another स्टुडियो रिलीज in 2004 titled  Encore .
Eminem then went on  अंतराल बाद touring in 2005  .
he released उसके पहला एल्बम in पाँच सालो titled  Relapse , on May 15 , 2009 .
In 2010 ,  एमिनेम released उसके सातवाँ  studio album Recovery .
Recovery was an international success and was named the best selling album of 2010  विश्वव्यापी , joining the एमिनेम दिखाएँ , जिससे थी the बेहतरीन विक्रेता  of 2002 .
Eminem won Grammy Awards for both Relapse and Recovery ,  giving उसे a कुल of 13 grammys in  his career .
Eminem has opened other ventures , including his own  रिकार्ड लेबल छायादार रिकॉर्ड साथ उसके मैनेजर पॉल rosenberg  .
He also has his own  रेडियो चैनल , शेड  45 on Sirius XM Radio .
Eminem began an acting career in  2002 , जब he स्ट्रक्चर in the हिप हॉप नाटक फिल्मी 8  Mile .
He won the Academy Award for Best  असली सोंग ,  becoming the first rap artist ever to win the award .
He has also made cameo appearances in The Wash ( 2001 )  , मजेदार लोगों ( 2009 ) और the टेलीविज़न श्रेणी अनुगामी  .
The acre is a unit of area used in  the इम्पीरियल और u.S. प्रथागत  systems .
An acre is about 40 % of a hectare – slightly smaller  than an अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल फ़ील्ड  .
The acre is no longer commonly used , although a few notable exceptions include the United States , Australia , Burma and the United Kingdom  ( as of 2010 , the एकड़ is no longer officially प्रयुक्त in the संयुक्त  Kingdom , though is still used in real estate descriptions ) .
It is still  प्रयुक्त , to कुछ  extent , in Canada .
The international symbol of the acre is ac , and is  पारिभाषित as 1/640 of a वर्गाकार मील  .
the सबसे commonly प्रयुक्त  acre today is the international acre .
in the संयुक्त राज्य दोनो the अंतरराष्ट्रीय  acre and the slightly different US survey acre are in use .
the सबसे आम उपयोग of the  acre is to measure tracts of land .
One  अंतरराष्ट्रीय एकड़ is पारिभाषित as 4046.8564224 वर्गाकार  metres .
दौरान the मध्य आयु , an एकड़ थी the राशि of  land that could be plowed in one day with a yoke of oxen .
Antoine Lavoisier 's discovery of the Law of Conservation of Mass led to many  नई निष्कर्षों in the 19th सदी .
Joseph Proust 's law of definite proportions and John Dalton 's atomic theory  branched इससे the discoveries of एंटोनी लाव्वाज़्ये  .
Lavoisier 's  quantitative प्रयोग नाज़िल कि दहन शामिल ऑक्सीजन  rather than what was previously thought to be phlogiston .
The law of conservation of mass , or  principle of द्रव्यमान संरक्षण , राज्य कि लिये कोई प्रणाली बंद to सब हस्तांतरण of पदार्थ और उर्जा ( दोनो of जिससे have  mass ) , the mass of the system must remain constant over time , as system mass can not change quantity if it is not added or removed .
Hence ,  the मात्रा of द्रव्यमान  is `` conserved '' over time .
The law implies that mass can neither be created nor destroyed ,  हालांकि it may be rearranged in स्पेस , or the entities संबद्ध साथ it may be बदला in रूप , as लिये उदाहरण जब लाइट or शारीरिक कार्य is रूपांतरित  into particles that contribute the same mass to the system as the light or work had contributed .
The law implies ( requires ) that during any chemical  प्रतिक्रिया , नाभिकीय प्रतिक्रिया , or रेडियोसक्रिय क्षय in an पृथक प्रणाली , the द्रव्यमान of the  reactants or starting material must equal the mass of the products .
The concept of mass conservation is widely used in  अनेक फ़ील्ड ऐसे as रसायन , यांत्रिकी , और द्रव डायनामिक्स  .
Historically , mass  संरक्षण थी खोजा in रासायनिक प्रतिक्रियाएँ by एंटोनी लाव्वाज़्ये  in the late 18th century , and was of crucial importance in the progress from alchemy to the modern natural science of chemistry .
The closely related concept of matter conservation was found to hold good in chemistry to such high approximation that it failed only for the high energies treated by the later refinements of relativity  सिद्धान्त , लकिन वरना remains उपयोगी और fear सटीक लिये सबसे रासायनिक calculations , भी in आधुनिक  practice .
In special relativity , needed for accuracy when large energy transfers between  प्रणालियों is शामिल , the अंतर between thermodynamically बंद और पृथक प्रणालियों becomes महत्वपूर्ण  , since conservation of mass is strictly and perfectly upheld only for so-called isolated systems , i.e . those completely isolated from all exchanges with the environment .
In this circumstance , the mass-energy equivalence theorem  राज्य कि द्रव्यमान संरक्षण is समतुल्य to कुल उर्जा संरक्षण , जिससे  is the first law of thermodynamics .
By contrast , for a thermodynamically closed system ( i.e. , one which is closed to  exchanges of पदार्थ , लकिन खोलें to exchanges of non-material उर्जा , ऐसे as ऊष्मा और कार्य , साथ the  surroundings ) mass is ( usually ) only approximately conserved .
The input or output of non-material energy must change the mass of the system in relativity theory , although the change is usually  छोटी , चूंकि अपेक्षाकृत विशाल amounts of ऐसे उर्जा ( by तुलना साथ ordinary अनुभव ) carry तभी a छोटी राशि of द्रव्यमान ( again by ordinary मानकों of  measurement ) .
In special relativity , mass is not converted  to उर्जा , चूंकि उर्जा in सब of इसके फ़ॉर्म सदा retains इसके समतुल्य राशि  of mass throughout any transformation or translocation into , or out of , a system .
However , certain types of matter ( a different concept )  may be परिवर्तित to उर्जा , so long as the द्रव्यमान of the  system is unchanged in the process .
However , if such energy  is removed इससे प्रणालियों , वे जरूर खोना the द्रव्यमान कि  is associated with it .
In general relativity , mass ( and energy ) conservation in expanding volumes of  स्पेस is a जटिल अवधारणा , विषय to अलग परिभाषाएं , और neither द्रव्यमान nor उर्जा is as सख्ती और बस  conserved as is the case in special relativity and in Minkowski space .
For a discussion  , देखिए द्रव्यमान in सामान्य  relativity .
A pig is any of the animals in the  genus सस , भीतर the suidae  family of even-toed ungulates .
Pigs include the domestic  सुअर , इसके पूर्वज the जंगली boar , और  several other wild relatives .
Young and small  सूअर हैं ज्ञात as piglets  .
Pigs are  omnivores और हैं अत्यधिक सोशल और बुद्धिमान  animals .
8-inch ,  -inch , और -inch फ्लॉपी  disks
8-inch ,  -inch ( पूरा ऊँचाई  ) , and -inch drives
A 3.5-inch diskette 's ``  फ्लॉपी '' चुम्बकीय सामग्री , removed  from its housing
A floppy disk  , or diskette , is a डिस्क भंडार मीडियम रचित of a डिस्क of पतला और लचीली चुम्बकीय  storage medium , sealed in a rectangular plastic carrier lined with fabric that removes dust particles .
They are read and  लिखा by a फ्लॉपी डिस्क ड्राइव  ( FDD ) .
Floppy disks , initially as media and later in and 3.5-inch ( 90 mm ) sizes , were a  सर्वव्यापी रूप of आंकड़ा भंडार और एक्सचेंज इससे the mid-1970s खूब into the पहला  decade of the 21st century .
By 2010 , computer  motherboards यहूद rarely manufactured साथ फ्लॉपी ड्राइव support ; `` floppies could be प्रयुक्त as an बाह्य  USB drive , but `` , 8 `` , and non-standard drives could only be handled by old equipment .
While floppy disk drives still have some limited uses , especially with legacy industrial computer equipment , they have been superseded by data  भंडार विधि साथ much वृहद क्षमता , ऐसे as usb फ्लैश ड्राइव , पोर्टेबल बाह्य मुश्किल डिस्क ड्राइव , ऑप्टिकल discs , मेमोरी ताश , और कंप्यूटर  networks .
An  एनिमेटेड आरेख of  a cutter
In baseball , a cutter ,  or काटें fastball , is a प्रकार of fastball जिससे ब्रेक थोड़ा toward the पिचर 's  glove side as it reaches home plate .
This pitch is somewhere between a  स्लाइडर और a fastball , as it is प्रायः thrown तेज़ than a स्लाइडर लकिन  with more motion than a typical fastball .
कुछ pitchers उपयोग a कटर as  a way to prevent hitters from expecting their regular fastballs .
A common technique  प्रयुक्त to throw a कटर is to उपयोग a four-seam fastball  grip with the baseball set slightly off center in the hand .
When a batter is able to hit a cutter pitch , it often results in soft contact and an easy out , due to the  पिच 's गति keeping the बॉल दूर इससे the चमगादड़ 's मीठी स्पॉट  .
the कटर is typically  2–5 mph slower than a pitcher 's four-seam fastball .
In 2010 , the average pitch classified as a cutter by  pitchf/x thrown by a right-handed पिचर थी 88.6 किमी ; the औसत four-seamer  was 92.1 mph .
`` What  it takes '' is a शक्ति ballad by अमरीकी  hard rock band Aerosmith .
It was written by Steven  टायलर , जो पेरी , और डेसमंड  Child .
It was released in 1990 as the third single from  एरोस्मिथ 's critically और commercially कामयाब  1989 album Pump .
In the video The  बनाना of पंप , a & r man जॉन kalodner वर्णित  the song as `` a masterpiece '' .
During live performances , Tyler sings the first verse a  cappella और बेल्ट आउट एक of उसके हस्ताक्षर चिल्लाती सही  before the chorus .
The  एल्बम संस्करण of the सोंग is followed  by an untitled hidden track .
Head of Odysseus from a Greek 2nd century BC marble group representing Odysseus blinding Polyphemus ,  मिला at the विला of tiberius at sperlonga
Detail of an ancient Roman mosaic  of ulysses in ट्यूनीशिया
Odysseus ( or ;  यूनानी : , ) , भी ज्ञात by the रोमन  name Ulysses ( ; ) , was a legendary Greek king of Ithaca and a hero of Homer 's epic poem the Odyssey .
Odysseus also plays a key role  in होमर 's इलियड और अन्य works in कि  same Epic Cycle .
Husband of Penelope , father of Telemachus , and son of Laërtes ( or Sisyphus ) and Anticlea , Odysseus is renowned for his  brilliance , छल , और versatility ( polytropos ) , और is hence ज्ञात by the epithet odysseus the cunning ( mētis ,  or `` cunning intelligence `` ) .
He is most famous for the ten eventful years he took to return  घर बाद the decade-long trojan युद्ध और उसके प्रसिद्ध trojan  Horse ploy to capture the city of Troy .
Erie is a Statutory Town in Boulder and Weld counties in  the u.S. राज्य of कोलोराडो .
The population according  to the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी is 18,135 और थी अंकित  as 6,291 at the 2000 census .
The Town of Erie is located just west of  i-25 लिये आसान अभिगम to i-70 , डेनवर अंतरराष्ट्रीय विमानक्षेत्र  and Colorado 's entire Front Range .
Erie 's Planning Area spans 48 square miles , extending from the  उत्तर पक्ष of राज्य राजमार्ग 52 दक्षिण to राज्य राजमार्ग 7 , और between us 287 on the वेस्ट  and Interstate 25 to the east .
Erie is  लगभग 35 मिनट्स इससे डेनवर अंतरराष्ट्रीय विमानक्षेत्र , 25 मिनट्स  to Denver and 20 minutes from Boulder .
The Board of Trustees serves as the legislative and governing  देह of the कस्बा of erie और is जिम्मेदार लिये establishing  Town policies and goals .
The Board has the authority to adopt laws , ordinances and resolutions as needed to conduct the business of the Town ,  और by अध्यादेश may डालें into अनुबंध or intergovernmental समझौतों to furnish , प्राप्त सेवाएं or to provide लिये सहकारी सेवा डिलीवरी  .
Appointed by and  सेवारत at the ख़ुशी of the फलक of trustees , the कस्बा व्यवस्थापक is the मुख्य ऑपरेटिंग और प्रशासनिक अधिकारी of the कस्बा और is जिम्मेदार लिये  providing professional leadership in the administration and execution of policies and objectives formulated by the Board .
The mission of the Erie Police Department is to  communicate और कार्य साथ the जातियाँ to maintain a सुरक्षित पर्यावरण , prevent  crime and enforce the law , while protecting the rights of all .
Erie Municipal Airport ( EIK ) is owned and  संचालित by the कस्बा of erie और is रणनीतिक स्तिथ in the denver-boulder महानगर क्षेत्रफल on कोलोराडो राजमार्ग 7 , a छोटी  over three miles west of Interstate 25 .
The main runway is  कंक्रीट प्रशस्त और 4,700  feet long .
The is a  घर वीडियो खेल कंसोल उत्पादित by सोनी कंप्यूटर  Entertainment .
it is the successor to the प्लेस्टेशन  2 , as part of the PlayStation series .
The  प्लेस्टेशन 3 competes साथ microsoft 's एक्सबॉक्स 360 और  Nintendo 's Wii as part of the seventh generation of video game consoles .
It was first  released  on November 11 , 2006 , in Japan , with international markets following shortly thereafter .
the कंसोल थी पहला officially  announced at E3 2005 .
originally नियत लिये a वसन्त 2006  release date , it was delayed several times until finally hitting stores at the end of the year .
It was the first and  फिलहाल तभी कंसोल to उपयोग blu-ray  Disc as its primary storage medium .
Major features of the console include its unified online gaming service , the PlayStation Network ,  और इसके कनेक्टिविटी साथ the प्लेस्टेशन पोर्टेबल और प्लेस्टेशन वीटा , in सितंबर 2009 the अद्यतनीकृत प्लेस्टेशन  3 Slim , was released .
This Slim is lighter and thinner than  the असली संस्करण , हालांकि it lacks प्लेस्टेशन 2 पीछे संगतता ( removed on बाद असली  models ) , but notably featured a re-designed logo and marketing design .
As of  नवम्बर 4 , 2012 , 70 लाख  PlayStation 3s have been sold worldwide .
Its successor ,  प्लेस्टेशन 4 , is नियत लिये a q4 2013  release .
Salvador Domingo Felipe Jacinto Dalí i Domènech , 1st Marqués de Dalí de Pubol ( May 11 , 1904January 23 , 1989 ) , known as  साल्वाडोर dalí ( ) , थी a prominent स्पेनी surrealist चित्रकार born in figueres  , Spain .
Dalí was a skilled draftsman , best known for the  striking और विचित्र बिंब in उसके surrealist  work .
His painterly  कौशल हैं प्रायः attributed to the influence  of Renaissance masters .
His best-known work ,  the हठ of मेमोरी ,  was completed in 1931 .
Dalí 's expansive artistic repertoire included  फिल्मी , मूर्तिकला , और छायाचित्र , in सहयोग साथ  a range of artists in a variety of media .
Dalí attributed his `` love of everything that is gilded and  excessive , my जुनून लिये लक्ज़री और my प्रेम of प्राच्य कपडे '' to a self-styled  `` Arab lineage '' , claiming that his ancestors were descended from the Moors .
Dalí was highly  कल्पनाशील , और भी enjoyed indulging in असामान्य  and grandiose behavior .
His eccentric  manner और attention-grabbing पब्लिक क्रियाएँ sometimes खींचा अधिक ध्यान than उसके कलाकृति , to the dismay of those  who held his work in high esteem , and to the irritation of his critics .
पारस प्लेटो  by Silanion
The humanities are academic disciplines that study human culture , using methods that are primarily  विश्लेषणात्मक , नाजुक , or सट्टे , और having a significant ऐतिहासिक तत्व , as विशिष्ट इससे the मुख्यतः  empirical approaches of the natural sciences .
The humanities include ancient and  आधुनिक भाषाएं , साहित्य , दर्शनशास्त्र , धर्म ,  and visual and performing arts such as music and theatre .
The humanities that are also regarded as social  sciences शामिल इतिहास , मानवशास्त्र , क्षेत्रफल अध्ययन , संचार अध्ययन , सांस्कृतिक  studies , law , economics and linguistics .
Scholars working in  the मानवता हैं sometimes वर्णित  as `` humanists '' .
However , that term also  describes the philosophical स्थिति of मानवतावाद  , which some `` antihumanist `` scholars in the humanities reject .
Some secondary schools offer  मानवता वर्ग , प्रायः consisting of  English literature , global studies , and art .
Human disciplines like history , cultural anthropology and psychoanalysis study subject  matters to जिससे the प्रायोगिक विधि करता नहीं लागू , और वे have अभिगम बजाय to the तुलनात्मक  method and comparative research .
The  2005 ब्लू रूम क्रिसमस  Tree
the श्वेत हाउस क्रिसमस पेड़ , भी ज्ञात as the ब्लू रूम क्रिसमस पेड़ , is  the official indoor Christmas tree at the residence of the President of the United States , the White House .
The first indoor Christmas tree was installed in the White House sometime in the 19th century ( there are varying claims as to the exact year ) and  चूंकि 1961 the पेड़ रै था a प्रसंग मोटिफ at the discretion of the पहला महिला  of the United States .
The President of the United States  of अमेरिका ( potus ) is the सिर of राज्य और सिर of सरकारी  of the United States .
The  अध्यक्ष लीड the कार्यपालिका शाखा of the संघीय सरकारी और is the  commander-in-chief of the United States Armed Forces .
Article II of the U.S. Constitution vests the executive power of the United States in the president and charges him with the execution of  संघीय विधि , alongside the जिम्मेदारी of appointing संघीय कार्यपालिका , राजनयिक , नियामक , और न्यायिक अधिकारियों , और concluding treaties साथ विदेशी  powers , with the advice and consent of the Senate .
The president is further empowered to grant federal pardons and reprieves , and to convene  और adjourn either or दोनो घरों of कॉंग्रेस अंतर्गत  extraordinary circumstances .
Since the founding of the United States , the power of the president and the federal  सरकारी have grown substantially और प्रत्येक आधुनिक अध्यक्ष , despite possessing no औपचारिक विधान शक्तियां परे हस्ताक्षर or vetoing congressionally passed बिल्स , is largely जिम्मेदार लिये dictating the विधान कार्यसूची  of his party and the foreign and domestic policy of the United States .
The president is  अक्सर वर्णित as the सबसे शक्तिशाली  person in the world .
The president is  indirectly निर्वाचित by the लोगों through the चुनावी कॉलेज to a four-year पद , और is एक of  only two nationally elected federal officers , the other being the Vice President of the United States .
The Twenty-second Amendment , adopted in 1951 , prohibits anyone from ever  होने निर्वाचित to the प्रेसिडेंसी लिये a तीसरा पूरा पद .
It also prohibits a person from being elected to the presidency more than  एकबार if कि व्यक्ति previously था परोसा as अध्यक्ष , or एक्टिंग अध्यक्ष , लिये अधिक than दो सालो of another व्यक्ति  's term as president .
In  सब , 43 individuals have परोसा  55 four-year terms .
On  जनवरी 20 , 2009 , बराक ओबामा became the  44th and current president .
On  नवम्बर 6 , 2012 , he थी re-elected  and is scheduled to serve until January 20 , 2017 .
Senses are physiological capacities of  जीवों कि provide आंकड़ा लिये बोध  .
The senses and their operation , classification , and theory are overlapping topics studied  by a किस्में of फ़ील्ड , सबसे notably neuroscience , संज्ञानात्मक मनोविज्ञान ( or संज्ञानात्मक  science ) , and philosophy of perception .
The nervous system  रै a विशिष्ट संवेदी प्रणाली or अंग  , dedicated to each sense .
Humans have  a multitude of होश  .
Sight (  ophthalmoception ) , सुनना ( audioception ) ,  taste ( gustaoception ) , smell ( olfacoception or olfacception ) , and touch ( tactioception ) are the five traditionally recognized .
While the ability to detect other stimuli beyond those governed by the traditional senses exists , including temperature ( thermoception ) , kinesthetic sense ( proprioception ) , pain ( nociception ) , balance ( equilibrioception ) , acceleration ( kinesthesioception ) ,  और विभिन्न आतंरिक stimuli ( e.g . the अलग chemoreceptors लिये detecting नमक और कार्बन डाइऑक्साइड एकाग्रता in the रक्त ) , तभी a छोटी  number of these can safely be classified as separate senses in and of themselves .
What constitutes a sense is  a पदार्थ of कुछ बहस , अग्रणी  to difficulties in defining what exactly a sense is .
Animals also have  receptors to भाव the संसार around उन्हें , साथ डिग्री of काबिलियत varying  greatly between species .
Humans have a  comparatively कमजोर भाव of महकते , जबकि कुछ पशु may कमी  one or more of the traditional five senses .
Some animals may also  सेवन और interpret संवेदी stimuli in बहुत अलग  ways .
Some species of animals are  समर्थ to भाव the संसार in a रास्ता कि इंसानो can नहीं , साथ कुछ प्रजाति समर्थ to भाव विद्युत और चुम्बकीय  fields , and detect water pressure and currents .
Spiders ( order Araneae ) are  air-breathing arthropods कि have आठ टाँगे और chelicerae  with fangs that inject venom .
They are the largest order of arachnids and rank  सातवाँ in कुल प्रजाति विविधता among सब अन्य समूह of जीवों  .
Spiders are  मिला विश्वव्यापी on प्रत्येक महाद्वीप मगर लिये अंटार्कटिक  , and have become established in nearly every habitat with the exception of air and sea colonization .
As of 2008 , at least 43,678 spider species , and 109 families have been recorded by taxonomists ; however , there has  महरूम भ्रम भीतर the वैज्ञानिक जातियाँ as to कैसा सब ये परिवारों चाहिए be वर्गीकृत , as evidenced by the over 20  different classifications that have been proposed since 1900 .
Anatomically  , मकड़ियों differ इससे अन्य arthropods in कि the usual देह खण्ड हैं fused into दो tagmata  , the cephalothorax and abdomen , and joined by a small , cylindrical pedicel .
नापसंद कीट  , spiders do not have antennae .
In all except the most primitive group , the Mesothelae , spiders  have the सबसे centralized बेचैन प्रणालियों of सब arthropods , as  all their ganglia are fused into one mass in the cephalothorax .
Unlike most arthropods , spiders have no extensor muscles in  उनके limbs और बजाय extend उन्हें by हाइड्रोलिक दबाव  .
Their abdomens bear  appendages कि have महरूम परिवर्धित into spinnerets कि extrude रेशा  from up to six types of silk glands within their abdomen .
Spider webs  vary widely in आकार , आकार और the  amount of sticky thread used .
It now appears that the spiral orb web may be one of the earliest forms ,  और मकड़ियों कि उपज उलझे cobwebs हैं अधिक abundant और  diverse than orb-web spiders .
Spider-like arachnids with silk-producing spigots appeared in  the devonian काल परिचय , लकिन ये पशु जाहिर  lacked spinnerets .
सच्चा मकड़ियों have महरूम मिला in carboniferous रॉक्स  from , and are very similar to the most primitive surviving order , the Mesothelae .
The main groups of modern  मकड़ियों , mygalomorphae और araneomorphae , पहला appeared  in the Triassic period , before .
A herbivorous species , Bagheera kiplingi , was described in 2008 ,  लकिन सब अन्य ज्ञात प्रजाति हैं परभक्षी , ज़्यादातर preying on कीट  and on other spiders , although a few large species also take birds and lizards .
Spiders use a wide range of strategies to capture prey : trapping it in  स्टिकी webs , lassoing it साथ स्टिकी bolas , mimicking the शिकार to  avoid detection , or running it down .
Most detect prey mainly by sensing vibrations , but the active hunters  have अधि दृष्टि , और hunters of the genus portia दिखाएँ लक्षण of प्रज्ञा in उनके चुनाव  of tactics and ability to develop new ones .
Spiders '  गुस्ताखी हैं too सीमित to लो solids , और वे liquidize उनके खाना by बाढ़ it साथ digestive  enzymes and grinding it with the bases of their pedipalps , as they do not have true jaws .
Male spiders identify themselves by a  किस्में of जटिल प्रेमालाप संस्कार to  avoid being eaten by the females .
Males of most species survive a few matings ,  सीमित मुख्यतः by उनके छोटी जीवन spans  .
Females weave silk  egg-cases , प्रत्येक of जिससे may contain  hundreds of eggs .
Females of many species care for  उनके यंग , लिये उदाहरण by carrying  them around or by sharing food with them .
A minority of species are social , building  सांप्रदायिक webs कि may हाउस anywhere इससे a few to 50,000  individuals .
Social behavior ranges from precarious toleration , as in the  विधवा मकड़ियों , to co-operative शिकार  and food-sharing .
Although most spiders live for at most two years , tarantulas and other  mygalomorph मकड़ियों can सजीव up to 25 सालो  in captivity .
While the venom of a few species is dangerous to humans , scientists are  अभी researching the उपयोग of मकड़ी venom in आयुर्विज्ञान और as non-polluting pesticides  .
Spider silk provides a combination of lightness , strength  और लोच कि is श्रेष्ठ to कि of सिंथेटिक सामग्री , और मकड़ी रेशा जीनों have महरूम inserted into स्तनधारियों और पौधे to देखिए if ये can be  used as silk factories .
As a  परिणाम of उनके चौड़ी दायरा of व्यवहार , मकड़ियों  have become common symbols in art and mythology symbolizing various combinations of patience , cruelty and creative powers .
Grey 's Anatomy is an American television medical  नाटक कि premiered on the अमरीकी प्रसारण कम्पनी ( एबीसी ) , as a mid-season  replacement on March 27 , 2005 .
The series has aired nine seasons , and focuses on the fictional lives of surgical interns and  निवासियों as वे धीरे evolve into seasoned डॉक्टर , जबकि trying to maintain निजी  lives .
The show 's premise originated with Shonda Rhimes , who serves as an executive  निर्माता , साथ साथ बेट्सी beers , चिह्नित गॉर्डन , क्रिस्टा vernoff , रोब मकई ,  Mark Wilding , and Allan Heinberg .
The series was created to be racially diverse  , utilizing a color-blind ढलाई  technique .
It is primarily  फिल्माया in लॉस एंजिल्स  , California .
The  श्रेणी ' समर्थक is dr. मेरेडिथ धूसर ( एलेन pompeo ) , जो originally  is accepted into the residency program at the fictional Seattle Grace Hospital .
Meredith is assigned to work under Dr. Miranda Bailey ( Chandra Wilson ) , along  साथ dr. क्रिस्टीना यांग ( सैंड्रा oh ) , dr. जार्ज o'malley ( T. R. नाईट ) , dr. izzie स्टीवंस ( कैथरीन heigl )  , and Dr. Alex Karev ( Justin Chambers ) .
Following O'Malley 's death and Stevens ' departure , the hospital 's merger with  रहमत वेस्ट brings in dr. जैक्सन एवेरी ( जेसी विलियम्स ) और dr.  April Kepner ( Sarah Drew ) , in the sixth season .
The surgical wing is primarily  पर्यवेक्षित by dr. रिचर्ड webber ( जेम्स pickens , jr. ) , जो is  eventually replaced by Dr. Derek Shepherd ( Patrick Dempsey ) , and later Dr. Owen Hunt ( Kevin McKidd ) .
Dr. Preston Burke ( Isaiah Washington ) departs at the conclusion of the third season , and is replaced by Dr. Erica Hahn ( Brooke Smith ) , who leaves the show during  the पांचवां ऋतु , और बाद dr. टेडी altman ( किम raver ) , जो प्रस्थान at the समाप्त of the आठवीं ऋतु  .
Introduced in the second season is Dr. Addison Montgomery ( Kate Walsh ) , who  पत्ते the दिखाएँ at the समाप्त of the तीसरा ऋतु , in अनुक्रम to लॉन्च उसके अपना spin-off चिकित्सा नाटक  Private Practice .
Dr. Callie Torres ( Sara Ramirez ) and  dr. चिह्नित स्लोअन ( eric डेन ) भी डालें the दिखाएँ in the  second season , while the latter dies in the premiere of the ninth season .
Meredith  's half-sister , dr. lexie धूसर ( chyler leigh ) ,  appears from season three and dies at the end of season eight .
dr. एरिज़ोना रॉबिन्स ( जेसिका capshaw ) is  given series regular status at the beginning of the sixth season .
Grey 's  anatomy is the highest-rated  drama in the key 18–49 demographic .
Previously among the overall top-ten  रेटेड shows in the संयुक्त राज्य , धूसर 's anatomy रै महरूम खूब प्राप्त  by critics .
Considered an impact on culture , the series has received  numerous पुरस्कार , और रै भी महरूम शामिल in विभिन्न आलोचकों  ' top ten lists .
The  दिखाएँ रै उत्पादित अनेक specials , as खूब  as distributed all seasons to DVD , and released a collection of merchandise .
In 2012 , Grey 's Anatomy was named  the fifth-highest आय कमाई दिखाएँ , in  terms of advertising per half-hour .
On May 11 , 2012 ,  the श्रेणी थी नवीनीकृत लिये a नवीं ऋतु , जिससे premiered  on September 27 , 2012 .
Schizophrenia ( or ) is a mental disorder characterized by a  विश्लेषण of विचार प्रक्रियाओं और  by a deficit of typical emotional responses .
Common symptoms include auditory  मति , paranoid or विचित्र delusions , or disorganized वाक और सोच , और it is accompanied by significant  social or occupational dysfunction .
The onset of symptoms typically  occurs in यंग adulthood , साथ a वैश्विक आजीवन व्यापकता of परिचय  0.3–0.7 % .
निदान is आधारित on observed बर्ताव  and the patient 's reported experiences .
Genetics ,  जल्दी पर्यावरण , neurobiology , और मनोवैज्ञानिक और सोशल प्रक्रियाओं appear to be महत्वपूर्ण contributory कारकों ; कुछ recreational  and prescription drugs appear to cause or worsen symptoms .
Current research is focused on the role of neurobiology , although no single  पृथक सशुल्क कारण रै महरूम मिला  .
The many possible combinations of symptoms have triggered debate about whether the diagnosis  represents a सिंगल विकार or a क्रमांक of अलहदा  syndromes .
Despite the etymology of the term from the Greek roots skhizein ( σχίζειν , `` to split '' ) and phrēn , phren- ( φρήν , φρεν- ; `` mind '' ) , schizophrenia does not imply a `` split personality '' , or `` multiple personality disorder '' (  जिससे is ज्ञात ये दिनों as dissociative पहचान विकार ) —a कंडीशन साथ जिससे it is प्रायः उलझन in पब्लिक बोध  .
Rather ,  the पद अर्थात् a `` splitting of दिमागी कृत्यों '' , क्युकी  of the symptomatic presentation of the illness .
The  mainstay of उपचार is antipsychotic दवा  , which primarily suppresses dopamine ( and sometimes serotonin ) receptor activity .
Psychotherapy and  वोकेशनल और सोशल पुनर्वास हैं भी महत्वपूर्ण  in treatment .
In more serious cases—where there is risk to self and others—  involuntary hospitalization may be जरुरी , हालांकि हॉस्पिटल stays हैं अभी shorter और कम बारंबार  than they once were .
The disorder is  विचार मुख्यतः to affect संज्ञान , लकिन it  also usually contributes to chronic problems with behavior and emotion .
People  साथ schizophrenia हैं संभावित to have अतिरिक्त ( comorbid  ) conditions , including major depression and anxiety disorders ; the lifetime occurrence of substance use disorder is almost 50 % .
सोशल समस्याएं , ऐसे as long-term बेरोजगारी  , poverty , and homelessness are common .
The average life expectancy of people with the disorder is 12 to 15 years less than those without ,  the परिणाम of increased शारीरिक स्वास्थ्य समस्याएं और a उच्चतर आत्महत्या रेट ( परिचय  5 % ) .
Paul Leslie Snider ( April 15 , 1951–August 14 , 1980 ) was the estranged  husband और मैनेजर of प्लेबॉय मॉडल डोरोथी stratten , जिसको he murdered पहले  killing himself the same day .
The  एपिक of gilgamesh , an एपिक कविता इससे  Mesopotamia , is amongst the earliest surviving works of literature .
The literary history of Gilgamesh begins  साथ पाँच स्वतंत्र sumerian कविताएं परिचय 'bilgamesh ' ( sumerian  for Gilgamesh ) , king of Uruk .
Four of these were used as source  सामग्री लिये a संयुक्त एपिक in अक्कादी  .
This first combined  एपिक , ज्ञात as the `` बूढ़ा babylonian '' संस्करण , तिथियाँ to the 18th सदी bc और is  titled after its incipit , Shūtur eli sharrī ( `` Surpassing All Other Kings '' ) .
Only a few  fragments of it have बच  .
The later `` Standard Babylonian '' version dates from the 13th to  the 10th सदियां bc और bears the incipit शा naqba īmuru ( `` he  who Saw the Deep '' ) .
Fragments of  लगभग दो तिहाई of इस longer , twelve-tablet संस्करण have महरूम बरामद  .
Some of the  बेहतरीन नक़ल यहूद खोजा in the पुस्तकालयों  ruins of the 7th-century BC Assyrian king Ashurbanipal .
The story centers on a friendship  between gilgamesh और enkidu  .
Enkidu is a wild man created by the gods as Gilgamesh 's equal to distract  उसे इससे oppressing the लोगों of uruk  .
Together , they journey to the Cedar Mountain to  शिकस्त humbaba , इसके monstrous  guardian .
Later they kill the Bull of Heaven , which the  देवी इश्तार भेजना to सजा gilgamesh लिये  spurning her advances .
As a punishment for these actions , the  देवताओं वाक्य enkidu to मौत  .
The second half of the epic  focuses on gilgamesh 's तकलीफ at enkidu 's  death , and his quest for immortality .
In order to learn the secret of eternal life , Gilgamesh  undertakes a long और perilous यात्रा .
he learns कि `` the  life that you are seeking you will never find .
When the gods created man they allotted to him death  , लकिन जीवन वे retained in उनके अपना keeping  . ''
इस उद्धरण थी originally attributed to siduri in the बूढ़ा babylonian संस्करण  of the epic , and then attributed to the immortal flood hero Utnapishtim in the Akkadian version of the epic .
Nevertheless , Gilgamesh 's  कीर्ति जिया on बाद उसके मौत , क्युकी of उसके ग्रेट  building projects , and his account of what Utnapishtim told him happened during the flood .
The story has been  अनूदित into अनेक अलग भाषाएं , और gilgamesh रै चूंकि  become adapted in works of popular fiction .
A  सुकेन्द्रिक ( or ) is an सजीव जिनकी कोशिकाएं contain जटिल  structures enclosed within membranes .
Eukaryotes may more  formally be referred to as the टैक्सोन eukarya or eukaryota  .
The defining membrane-bound structure that sets eukaryotic cells apart from prokaryotic cells is the nucleus ,  or नाभिकीय लिफाफा , भीतर जिससे the जेनेटिक सामग्री is carried  .
The presence of a nucleus gives  eukaryotes उनके नाम , जिससे  comes from the Greek ( eu , `` good '' ) and ( karyon , `` nut '' or `` kernel '' ) .
Most eukaryotic cells  भी contain अन्य membrane-bound organelles ऐसे as  mitochondria , chloroplasts and the Golgi apparatus .
All large complex organisms are eukaryotes ,  सहित पशु , पौधे और fungi  .
The  समूह भी शामिल अनेक एककोशिकीय  organisms .
Cell division in eukaryotes  is अलग इससे कि in जीवों बगैर  a nucleus ( Prokaryote ) .
It involves separating the duplicated  गुणसूत्रों , through आंदोलनों  directed by microtubules .
There are two types  of प्रभाग प्रक्रियाओं  .
In  समसूत्रण , एक कोशिका divides to उपज दो genetically  identical cells .
In meiosis , which is required in sexual reproduction , one diploid cell ( having two instances of each  chromosome , एक इससे प्रत्येक जनक ) undergoes recombination of प्रत्येक जोड़ी of parental गुणसूत्रों , और तब दो चरण of कोशिका प्रभाग , resulting in चार  haploid cells ( gametes ) .
Each  gamete रै बस एक पूरक of गुणसूत्रों , प्रत्येक a अद्वितीय  mix of the corresponding pair of parental chromosomes .
Eukaryota appears to be  monophyletic , और so makes up एक of the तीन डोमेन  of life .
The two other  डोमेन , जीवाणु और आर्किया , हैं prokaryotes और have none of  the above features .
Eukaryotes represent a tiny minority of all living things ; even in a human  देह वहीँ हैं 10 टाइम्स अधिक microbes than इंसान  cells .
However , due to their much  larger आकार उनके सामूहिक विश्वव्यापी बायोमास is अनुमानित at  about equal to that of prokaryotes .
They are  माना to have पहला विकसित  approximately 1.6–2.1 billion years ago .
The use of Internet services or software with Internet access to defraud victims or to otherwise take  लाभ of उन्हें , लिये उदाहरण by चोरी निजी सूचना , जिससे can भी सीसे to  identity theft .
A very common form of Internet fraud is the  वितरण of दुष्ट सुरक्षा तन्त्र  .
Internet services can be used to present fraudulent solicitations to prospective  पीड़ितों , to conduct बेईमान ट्रांजेक्शन , or to संचारण the proceeds of धोखाधड़ी to वित्तीय संस्थानों or  to others connected with the scheme .
Internet fraud can occur in chat  कक्ष , ईमेल , संदेश फलक , or  on websites .
The International Security Assistance Force ( ISAF ) is a NATO -led security mission in Afghanistan that was established by the United Nations  सुरक्षा परिषद in दिसम्बर 2001 by रेज़ोल्यूशन 1386 , as envisaged by the बॉन अनुबंध  .
Its main purpose is to train the Afghan National Security Forces (  ansf ) और assist अफगानिस्तान in पुनर्निर्माण कुंजी सरकारी संस्थानों लकिन is भी सगाई  in the 2001-present war with insurgent groups .
ISAF was initially charged with securing Kabul  और surrounding क्षेत्रों इससे the तालिबान , al qaeda और factional warlords , so as to allow  for the establishment of the Afghan Transitional Administration headed by Hamid Karzai .
In October 2003 , the UN Security  परिषद प्राधिकृत the विस्तार of the isaf मिशन throughout अफगानिस्तान , और  ISAF subsequently expanded the mission in four main stages over the whole of the country .
From 2006 to 2011 , ISAF had been  शामिल in increasingly अधिक intensive कॉम्बैट परिचालन  in southern and eastern Afghanistan .
Troop  योगदानकर्ता शामिल इससे the संयुक्त राज्य , संयुक्त किंगडम ,  NATO member states and a number of other countries .
The intensity of the combat faced by contributing nations  varies greatly , साथ the संयुक्त राज्य , संयुक्त किंगडम , और कनाडा sustaining the बहुमत of हताहत in intensive कॉम्बैट  operations , with other contributors sustaining significantly less .
As of early  2010 , वहीँ यहूद at तनिक 700 सैन्य bases  inside Afghanistan but more were expected to be built in the coming years .
About  400 of ये यहूद प्रयुक्त by american‐led नाटो  forces and 300 by ANSF .
Cocaine (  benzoylmethylecgonine ) ( इन ) is a crystalline  tropane alkaloid that is obtained from the leaves of the coca plant .
The name comes  इससे `` कोका '' और the एल्कलॉएड प्रत्यय -ine  , forming cocaine .
It is a stimulant , an  भूख suppressant ,  and a topical anesthetic .
Biologically , cocaine acts as a  serotonin–norepinephrine–dopamine reuptake inhibitor  , also known as a triple reuptake inhibitor ( TRI ) .
It is addictive because of its  प्रभाव on the mesolimbic बदला  pathway .
Unlike most molecules , cocaine has  pockets साथ दोनो ऊँची hydrophilic और lipophilic दक्षता , violating the नियम  of hydrophilic-lipophilic balance .
This causes it to cross the blood–brain barrier far  बेहतर than अन्य psychoactive रसायन और may भी induce blood-brain अवरोध विश्लेषण  .
It is illegal to possess , produce , or distribute cocaine for  non-medicinal और non-government-sanctioned उद्देश्य  in almost every country .
Whole beef  tri-tip rump , roasted मीडियम  rare
The  tri-tip is a काटें of बीफ इससे  the bottom sirloin primal cut .
It is a small triangular muscle ,  प्रायः 1.5 to 2.5 पाउंड . ( 675 to 1,150g ) प्रति पक्ष  of beef .
The scientific name of this muscle is tensor fasciae latae , inserted in the fascia lata , the connective tissue  covering the quadriceps femoris , भी पुकारा quadriceps extensor , a समूह of चार मांसपेशियां जिससे in फेरे प्रविष्ट in the पटेला , or घुटना कैप of the एनिमल  .
Willmar is  a नगर in , और  the county seat of , Kandiyohi County , Minnesota , United States .
The  जनसांख्यिकी थी 19,610  at the 2010 census .
Willmar has been assigned ZIP code  56201 by the संयुक्त राज्य डाक सेवा  .
U.S . Routes 12 and 71  और मिनेसोटा राज्य राजमार्गों 23 और 40 हैं  four of the main routes in the city .
The Speaker of the United States House of  प्रतिनिधि ( or स्पीकर of the हाउस )  is the presiding officer of the chamber .
The office was  स्थापित in 1789 by आलेख i , खण्ड 2 of the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान , जिससे राज्य in भाग , ``  The House of Representatives shall chuse their Speaker ... ''
The current Speaker is John Boehner , a Republican who  represents ओहियो 's 8th congressional ज़िला  .
The Constitution does not  आवश्यकता कि the स्पीकर be a सदस्य of कॉंग्रेस  , but no non-member has ever been elected to the office .
The Speaker is second in the United States presidential line of succession , after the Vice President and ahead of the  अध्यक्ष प्रो tempore of the u.S.  Senate .
Unlike  कुछ वेस्टमिंस्टर प्रणाली parliaments , in जिससे the दफ्तर of स्पीकर is माना non-partisan , in the संयुक्त राज्य the  Speaker of the House is a leadership position and the office-holder actively works to set the majority party 's legislative agenda .
The Speaker  प्रायः करता नहीं personally preside over debates , बजाय delegating the  duty to members of the House from the majority party .
Aside from duties relating to heading the House  और the बहुमत राजनैतिक पार्टी , the स्पीकर भी performs प्रशासनिक और प्रक्रियात्मक कृत्यों  , and represents his or her Congressional district .
A bicycle frame is the main component of a  सायकिल , on to जिससे पहियों  and other components are fitted .
The modern and most common frame design for an upright  सायकिल is आधारित on the सुरक्षा सायकिल , और consists of दो त्रिकोण , a प्रमुख त्रिभुज  and a paired rear triangle .
This is  ज्ञात as the डायमंड  frame .
Frames are required to be strong , stiff and light , which they do by combining  अलग सामग्री और आकार  .
`` Simple gravity pendulum ''  मॉडल assumes no घर्षण or  air resistance .
An exemplar animation of a pendulum showing  the गति और त्वरण सदिश
A pendulum is a weight  निलंबित इससे a so कि it can झूले freely  .
When a pendulum is displaced  बगलों इससे इसके resting संतुलन स्थिति , it is विषय to a restoring  force due to gravity that will accelerate it back toward the equilibrium position .
When released , the  restoring फ़ोर्स संयुक्त साथ the लोलक 's द्रव्यमान कल्याणकारी it to oscillate  about the equilibrium position , swinging back and forth .
The time for one complete cycle , a  बाएँ झूले और a सही झूले , is पुकारा  the period .
A  लोलक swings साथ a विशिष्ट  period which depends ( mainly ) on its length .
From its discovery around 1602 by Galileo Galilei the regular motion of  pendulums थी प्रयुक्त लिये timekeeping , और थी the संसार 's सबसे सटीक timekeeping  technology until the 1930s .
pendulums हैं प्रयुक्त to विनियमित लोलक घड़ियाँ , और  are used in scientific instruments such as accelerometers and seismometers .
Historically they were  प्रयुक्त as gravimeters to माप the त्वरण of गम्भीरता in  geophysical surveys , and even as a standard of length .
The word 'pendulum ' is new  लैटिन , इससे the लैटिन pendulus  , meaning 'hanging ' .
The  सरल गम्भीरता लोलक is an idealized  mathematical model of a pendulum .
This is a weight ( or bob ) on the end of  a massless cord निलंबित इससे a ,  without friction .
When given an initial  धक्का , it होगा झूले वापस और forth at  a constant amplitude .
Real pendulums  हैं विषय to घर्षण और एयर खीचें , so the  amplitude of their swings declines .
The First Battle of Bull Run , also known as First Manassas ( the name used by  confederate शक्तियां ) , थी लड़ा on जुलाई 21 , 1861 , in प्रिंस विलियम काउंटी , वर्जिनिया  , near the city of Manassas .
It was  the पहला प्रमुख जमीन बैटल  of the American Civil War .
Just months after the start of the war at  फोर्ट sumter , the उत्तरी पब्लिक clamored लिये a कूच विरूद्ध the confederate पूंजी of रिचमंड , वर्जिनिया , जिससे वे  expected to bring an early end to the rebellion .
Yielding to political pressure , Brig . Gen. Irvin  mcdowell led उसके unseasoned संघ फौज आरपार सांड चलाएं विरूद्ध the बराबर अनुभवहीन confederate फौज of ब्रिगेडियर . gen. P.  G. T. Beauregard camped near Manassas Junction .
McDowell 's ambitious plan for a surprise flank attack on the  confederate बाएँ थी poorly चलाया by उसके अधिकारियों और मेन ; nevertheless , the confederates , जो था महरूम नियोजन to आक्रमण the संघ  left flank , found themselves at an initial disadvantage .
Confederate reinforcements under  ब्रिगेडियर . gen. जोसेफ E. johnston arrived इससे the shenandoah घाटी by रेलरोड और the कोर्स of the  battle quickly changed .
A brigade of Virginians under a relatively unknown colonel from the Virginia Military  संस्थान , थामस J. जैक्सन , stood उनके मैदान और जैक्सन प्राप्त उसके प्रसिद्ध  nickname , `` Stonewall Jackson '' .
The Confederates then  शुभारम्भ a दमदार counterattack , और as the संघ सैनिकों began withdrawing अंतर्गत आग , अनेक panicked  and it turned into a rout as McDowell 's men frantically ran without order in the direction of Washington , D.C .
Both  सेना यहूद sobered by the fierce लड़ और अनेक हताहत , और  realized the war was going to be much longer and bloodier than either had anticipated .
Thunderstorm  निकट garajau , madeira
Weather is the state of the atmosphere , to the degree that it is  hot or ठंडा , गीला or शुष्क , शांत or stormy , साफ or cloudy  .
Most  मौसम phenomena occur in the  troposphere , just below the stratosphere .
Weather generally refers to day-to-day temperature and  वर्षण कार्यकलाप , whereas जलवायु is the पद लिये the  average atmospheric conditions over longer periods of time .
When used without qualification , ``  मौसम '' is समझा to be the  weather of Earth .
Weather is driven by air pressure (  तापमान और नमी ) मतभेद  between one place and another .
These pressure and temperature differences can occur  due to the सूर्य कोण at कोई particular स्पॉट , जिससे varies by अक्षांश  from the tropics .
the दमदार तापमान कंट्रास्ट  between polar and tropical air gives rise to the jet stream .
Weather systems in the mid-latitudes ,  ऐसे as extratropical cyclones , हैं caused  by instabilities of the jet stream flow .
Because the Earth 's axis is tilted relative  to इसके कक्षीय प्लेन , धूप is घटना at  different angles at different times of the year .
On  धरती 's सतह , temperatures प्रायः दायरा ±40  °C ( −40 °F to 100 °F ) annually .
Over thousands of years , changes in Earth 's orbit affect the amount and  वितरण of सौर उर्जा प्राप्त by the धरती और influence long-term जलवायु और वैश्विक जलवायु बदलें  .
Surface temperature  मतभेद in फेरे कारण दबाव मतभेद  .
Higher altitudes are cooler than lower altitudes  due to मतभेद in compressional हीटिंग  .
Weather forecasting is the application of science and technology to predict the  राज्य of the माहौल लिये a भविष्य समय और a दिए स्थान  .
The atmosphere is a  chaotic प्रणाली , so छोटी परिवर्तन to एक भाग of the  system can grow to have large effects on the system as a whole .
Human attempts to control the weather have occurred throughout  इंसान इतिहास , और वहीँ is प्रमाण कि इंसान कार्यकलाप ऐसे as कृषि और उद्योग  has inadvertently modified weather patterns .
अध्ययन कैसा the मौसम works on अन्य  planets has been helpful in understanding how weather works on Earth .
A  प्रसिद्ध लैंडमार्क in the सौर प्रणाली , बृहस्पति 's ग्रेट रेड स्पॉट  , is an anticyclonic storm known to have existed for at least 300 years .
However ,  मौसम is नहीं सीमित to  planetary bodies .
A star 's corona is constantly being lost  to स्पेस , बनाना कया is essentially a बहुत  thin atmosphere throughout the Solar System .
The  गति of द्रव्यमान ejected इससे  the Sun is known as the solar wind .
Katy Perry is an American  singer-songwriter इससे सांता बारबरा , कैलिफ़ोर्निया .
She signed with  कैपिटल रिकॉर्ड  .
Perry has released three studio albums ,  सहित उसके डेब्यू ईसाई प्रयत्न कैटी हडसन , एक of  the Boys , and Teenage Dream .
Perry 's mainstream career was kicked off  साथ the विशाल चार्ट कामयाबी of उसके डेब्यू सिंगल  `` I Kissed a Girl `` .
During her career , Perry has been nominated for numerous  प्रमुख म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार , primarily लिये teenage सपना और  One of the Boys .
The following is a  सूची of sovereign राज्य और territories जहाँ  English is an official language or language of government .
In 2012 , there were 88 states  in कुल ( 60 sovereign राज्य और 28 non-sovereign राज्य  ) .
In many countries  अंग्रेज़ी is the प्रबल भाषा , लकिन करता नहीं  have official status .
In Australia , English is spoken by the vast majority of  the जनसांख्यिकी और is the तभी भाषा प्रयुक्त in सरकारी संस्थानों , लकिन ऑस्ट्रेलिया  does not have an official language .
The case is the same in the United  किंगडम और the संयुक्त राज्य , हालांकि अनेक राज्य और regions भीतर the  U.S. do have English as an official language .
English is the dominant language of New Zealand and an official  भाषा of कनाडा ( साथ साथ फ्रेंच ) , इण्डिया ( साथ साथ हिंदी और अनेक अन्य भाषाएं  ) , Ireland ( along with Irish ) , and the Philippines ( along with Tagalog ) .
English is the sole  आधिकारिक भाषा of the राष्ट्रमंडल of राष्ट्र  and the Commonwealth Games .
English is one of the official languages of the United  राष्ट्र , the यूरोपीय संघ और the अंतरराष्ट्रीय ओलम्पिक कमेटी  .
Many of these countries are  वर्तमान or पूर्व colonies or dependencies of the संयुक्त  Kingdom ( see also British Empire ) , or of the United States , itself a former colony of the UK .
Notable exceptions include Rwanda , which was a former Belgian colony and Eritrea , which was an Italian colony where the  अंग्रेजों साम्राज्य spanned इसके कंट्रोल तभी in संसार युद्ध ii और shortly बाद ( 1941-1952  ) .
इण्डिया 's भाषाई चित्र  is complex .
According to the Constitution of India ,  `` हिंदी in the देवनागरी स्क्रिप्ट '' is the आधिकारिक भाषा of the संघ ; और अंग्रेज़ी the 'subsidiary आधिकारिक भाषा ' ; however  , English is mandated for the authoritative texts of all federal laws and Supreme Court decisions and ( along with Hindi ) is one of the two languages of the Indian Parliament .
अंग्रेज़ी is प्रयुक्त लगभग exclusively लिये उच्चतर  education , business and science .
Courses in  बहुमत of the स्कूलों हैं सिखाया exclusively  in English .
English is extensively  प्रयुक्त लिये प्रशासनिक उद्देश्य in इण्डिया  .
India is the second-largest English-speaking country in the world by  क्रमांक of अध्यक्षों , बाद the संयुक्त  States .
As such , many  consider अंग्रेज़ी to be the de facto आधिकारिक  language of India .
See Official  भाषाएं of इण्डिया  .
The  भाषाई मेकअप of पाकिस्तानी is  similarly complex .
While the national  भाषा is उर्दू , अंग्रेज़ी  is an official language and used in business , government and law .
English is a  अनिवार्य भाषा  in schools .
All  स्कूल पाठ्यक्रम हैं सिखाया  in English .
Pakistan is the 9th  largest english-speaking देश in the  world by population .
Southern Cone ( ,  ) is a भौगोलिक प्रदेश रचित of the southernmost  areas of South America , south of the Tropic of Capricorn .
हालांकि geographically इस शामिल दक्षिणी और भाग of southeast ( são पाउलो ) of ब्राज़ील , in शर्तें of राजनैतिक भूगोल  the Southern cone has traditionally comprised Argentina , Chile , Paraguay , and Uruguay .
In the narrowest sense , it only covers Argentina , Chile and Uruguay , bounded on the north by the states of Brazil , Paraguay , Bolivia and  पेरू , on the वेस्ट by the प्रशांत समंदर , और दक्षिण to the जंक्शन between the प्रशांत और अटलांटिक महासागर , जिससे it is the closest महाद्वीपीय  area of Antarctica ( 1000 km ) .
High life expectancy , the highest Human Development Index of Latin  अमेरिका , ऊँची मानक of जीना , significant भागीदारी in the वैश्विक बाज़ार और the उभरते अर्थव्यवस्था of इसके सदस्यों मेक the दक्षिणी कोन the सबसे prosperous  macro-region in South America .
For multi-event athletic  प्रतियोगिताओं देखिए track और फ़ील्ड प्रतियोगिताओं , खण्ड `` बैठक  '' .
Meetings are sometimes held  around सम्मेलन टेबल .
In a meeting , two or more  लोगों आइये साथ to discuss एक or अधिक विषय  , often in a formal setting .
An official game in baseball , also sometimes called a  विनियमन खेल , is a खेल कि रै progressed परे the पाइंट at जिससे it can  be considered complete if necessary .
This is approximately the  halfway पाइंट of the  game .
In the case of inclement weather , any game which has reached this point may be stopped and shortened as  needed , साथ the परिणाम होने फाइनल , और सब रिकॉर्ड और आंकडे गिने  .
A game which has  नहीं पहुँचे इस पाइंट पहले होने रोका is either माना a निलंबित खेल ( to be जारी at a बाद तिथि इससे the पाइंट of  stoppage ) , or is simply canceled and replayed from the start .
( This depends on  the नियम of प्रत्येक व्यक्तिगत लीग  . )
In  either मामला , no आंकडे हैं गिने जबतक  the game becomes official .
Since most professional baseball  खेल हैं नौ पारी long , the पांचवां inning is प्रयुक्त  as the threshold for an official game .
If the visiting team is leading ,  or the खेल is tied , the समाप्त of the पांचवां  inning marks this point .
If the home team ( which bats last ) is already  ahead in the स्कोर , और theoretically होता नहीं need इसके हाफ of the पांचवां inning  , then 41⁄2 innings ( i.e. , the middle of the fifth ) is considered an official game .
The game is also considered official if the home team scores to  लो the सीसे in the नीचे of the पांचवां inning , चूंकि the खेल होता समाप्त तत्काल  if the same thing happened in the ninth .
In  nearly सब मामले , the `` आधिकारिक खेल '' औकात is प्रयुक्त to  determine whether a rain check will be honored for fans holding tickets .
If a game is started but does not reach  the पाइंट of बनने आधिकारिक , प्रशंसक हैं हकदार to a नई टिकट लिये the make-up खेल or ( in सबसे मामले ) कोई अन्य उपलब्धियाँ खेल  of their choice .
If a game is halted after it becomes official  , the खेल is बस shortened और no बरसात  check is given .
The `` official game '' statistic received some attention  दौरान the 1995 ऋतु , जब कैलोरी ripken , jr. थी approaching the रिकार्ड  for consecutive games played , previously held by Lou Gehrig .
Large numbers were hung on the side of the B & O Warehouse at Oriole  पार्क at camden गज to दिखाएँ the क्रमांक of खेल in ripken 's  streak .
Each day , a new number was unfurled during the fifth inning after each game  था become आधिकारिक ( चूंकि the statistic होता नहीं have गिने if the खेल था महरूम  stopped before that point ) .
A similar practice has been used to count down toward the demolition of several stadiums ( including Veterans Stadium in Philadelphia in 2003 , Busch Memorial  स्टेडियम in st. लुई in 2005 , और the असली यांकी स्टेडियम और shea स्टेडियम in नई यॉर्क नगर in 2008 ) ; as प्रत्येक खेल  became official , the team would unveil a new ( lower ) number showing the number of games left to be played in the stadium .
A telephone number or phone number is a sequence of digits used  to कॉल इससे एक टेलीफोन लकीर to another in a  public switched telephone network .
When telephone numbers were invented , they  यहूद छोटी — as few as एक , दो or तीन अंक — और यहूद दिए orally to a  switchboard operator .
As  फोन प्रणालियों have grown और interconnected to encompass  the world , telephone numbers have become longer .
in जोड to telephones , वे अभी  access other devices , such as computers and fax machines .
The number contains the information necessary to identify uniquely  the intended endpoint लिये  the telephone call .
Each such  endpoint जरूर have a अद्वितीय क्रमांक भीतर the  public switched telephone network .
Most countries use fixed length numbers ( for normal lines at least )  और इसलिए the क्रमांक of endpoints determines the जरुरी लंबाई  of the telephone number .
It is also possible for each  सदस्य to have a नियत of shorter संख्याएँ  for the endpoints most often used .
These ``  आशुलिपि '' or `` गति कॉलिंग '' संख्याएँ हैं automatically अनूदित to अद्वितीय  telephone numbers before the call can be connected .
Some special services have their own short numbers ( e.g. , 1-1-9 , 9-1-1 , 0-0-0 , 9-9-9 , 1-1-1 , and 1-1-2 being the Emergency Services numbers for China , Japan , South Korea , Taiwan and Sri Lanka ; Canada and the United States ; Australia ; the United Kingdom , Ireland , South Africa , Poland , Saudi  अरब , the संयुक्त अरब अमीरात , मोरक्को , मकाओ , बहरीन , क़तर , बांग्लादेश , बोत्सवाना , घाना , कीनिया , हांग काँग , मलेशिया , मॉरीशस , सिंगापुर , ज़िम्बाब्वे ,  Trinidad , Tobago ; New Zealand ; Kuwait and the European Union , respectively . )
Many systems also allow calls  भीतर a लोकल क्षेत्रफल to be बना बगैर  dialing the local area code .
For example ,  a फोन क्रमांक in उत्तर अमेरिका होगा प्रारंभ साथ तीन संख्याएँ ( ऐसे as 661 ) , जिससे is the क्षेत्रफल कोड ,  followed by seven digits split into sections of three and four ( such as 550-1212 ) , which is the local number .
Some areas now have mandatory  ten-digit डायलिंग in प्लेस , भी लिये लोकल  calls .
Most telephone networks today ( exceptions being private intercom and secure  फोन संजाल ) हैं interconnected in the अंतरराष्ट्रीय टेलीफोन संजाल , जहाँ the स्वरूप of टेलीफोन संख्याएँ is  standardized by ITU-T in the recommendation E.164 .
This  specifies कि the संपूर्ण क्रमांक  should be 15 digits or shorter , and begin with a country prefix .
For most countries , this is followed by an area code or city code and  the सदस्य क्रमांक , जिससे might consist of the कोड लिये a particular  telephone exchange .
ITU-T recommendation E.123 describes how to represent an international telephone number in writing  or छपाई , starting साथ a प्लस चिह्न ( `` + '' ) और the  country code .
When calling an international  क्रमांक इससे a फिक्स्ड लकीर फोन , the + जरूर be replaced साथ  the international call prefix chosen by the country the call is being made from .
Some mobile phones allow the + to be  डाला सीधे  .
The format and allocation of local phone numbers are controlled by each nation 's respective government , either  सीधे or by प्रायोजित संगठन ( ऐसे as nanpa  overseen by NeuStar Inc. ) .
Before  a टेलीफोन कॉल is कनेक्ट , the टेलीफोन क्रमांक जरूर be dialed  by the calling party or Caller .
The called party might have  उपकरण कि presents कॉलर id पहले  the call is answered .
A collection agency is a  कारोबार कि pursues भुगतान of debts owed by individuals  or businesses .
Most collection agencies  operate as एजेंटों of लेनदारों और collect debts लिये  a fee or percentage of the total amount owed .
There are many  प्रकार of संग्रहण  agencies .
first-party एजेंसियों हैं oftentimes subsidiaries  of the original company the debt is owed to .
Third-party agencies are  पृथक कंपनियाँ contracted by a कम्पनी to collect  debts on their behalf for a fee .
Debt buyers purchase  the कर्ज़ at a प्रतिशत of इसके मान  , then attempt to collect it .
Each  देश रै इसके अपना नियम  and regulations regarding them .
Cannabis  पुष्प साथ दृश्य trichomes
Cannabis , also known as marijuana ( from the Mexican Spanish  marihuana ) , और by अन्य names , is a तैयारी of the कैनबिस संयंत्र intended लिये उपयोग as a psychoactive  drug and as medicine .
Pharmacologically ,  the प्रिंसिपल psychoactive constituent of कैनबिस is tetrahydrocannabinol ( thc  ) ; it is one of 483 known compounds in the plant , including at least 84 other cannabinoids , such as cannabidiol ( CBD ) , cannabinol ( CBN ) , tetrahydrocannabivarin ( THCV ) .
and  cannabigerol ( cbg )  .
This  is a सूची of अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल quarterbacks जो have प्रारंभ लिये the वॉशिंगटन redskins , as खूब as इसके पूर्ववर्तियों  the Boston Braves ( 1932 ) and Boston Redskins ( 1933 – 1936 ) , in the National Football League ( NFL ) .
The Washington Redskins franchise was originally founded  in बोस्टन , मैसाचुसेट्स as the बोस्टन braves , नामित बाद the  local baseball franchise .
The name was changed the following  साल to the redskins  .
In 1937 , the franchise moved to  वॉशिंगटन , d.c  .
Of the 49 Redskins starting quarterbacks , two  have महरूम inducted into the प्रो फ़ुटबॉल हॉल of कीर्ति : सैमी baugh और  Sonny Jurgensen .
Robert  griffin iii 2012-present
Jason  कैम्पबेल 2005-2009
Mark Burnell  2004-2007
चिह्नित rypien  1986-1993
Joe  theismann  1974-1985
सैमी baugh  1937-1952
1st Special Forces  operational detachment-delta ( 1st sfod-d ) , popularly ज्ञात as डेल्टा फ़ोर्स , is एक of  the United States ' four secretive tier-one counter-terrorism and Special Mission Units .
It was formerly listed as the Combat Applications Group by the Department of Defense but has since been  officially re-designated the फौज compartmented तत्व  ( ACE ) .
While 1st  sfod-d is administratively समर्थित by usasoc , it जलप्रपात अंतर्गत the  operational control of the Joint Special Operations Command .
Delta Force and its Navy counterpart ,  the नवल खास warfare विकास समूह , हैं the संयुक्त राज्य सैन्य  's primary counter-terrorism units .
Delta Force 's primary tasks are counter-terrorism , direct action ,  और नेशनल हस्तक्षेप परिचालन , हालांकि it is an अत्यधिक बहुमुखी समूह सक्षम of conducting अनेक प्रकार of गुप्त  missions , including , but not limited to , hostage rescues and raids .
the सेंट्रल प्रज्ञा एजेंसी 's अत्यधिक गुपचुप खास क्रियाएँ प्रभाग ( उदास ) और अधिक specifically  its elite Special Operations Group ( SOG ) often works with – and recruits – operators from Delta Force .
Alpha decay is one example type of radioactive decay , in which an atomic nucleus emits  an अल्फा कण , और thereby परिणत ( or 'क्षयs ' ) into an अणु साथ  a mass number 4 less and atomic number 2 less .
Many other  प्रकार of decays हैं संभावित  .
रेडियोसक्रिय क्षय , भी ज्ञात as नाभिकीय क्षय or radioactivity  , is the process by which a nucleus of an unstable atom loses energy by emitting particles of ionizing radiation .
A material that spontaneously emits this kind of radiation — which includes the  उत्सर्जन of ऊर्जावान अल्फा अणु , बीटा अणु , और गामा किरणें — is माना रेडियोसक्रिय  .
There are many different  प्रकार of रेडियोसक्रिय क्षय ( देखिए  table below ) .
A decay , or loss of energy , results when an atom with one type of  केंद्रक , पुकारा the जनक radionuclide , परिणत to an अणु साथ a केंद्रक in a अलग राज्य , or to  a different nucleus containing different numbers of protons and neutrons .
Either of  ये उत्पाद is नामित  the daughter nuclide .
In some decays the parent and daughter are different chemical elements , and thus the decay process results  in नाभिकीय transmutation ( सृष्टि of an अणु of a नई तत्व  ) .
The first decay processes to be discovered were alpha decay  , बीटा क्षय , और गामा  decay .
Alpha  क्षय occurs जब the केंद्रक ejects  an alpha particle ( helium nucleus ) .
This is the most common process of emitting nucleons , but in rarer  प्रकार of decays , nuclei can eject protons , or विशिष्ट nuclei of अन्य तत्व ( in  the process called cluster decay ) .
Beta decay occurs when  the केंद्रक emits an इलेक्ट्रॉन or positron और a प्रकार of न्यूट्रिनो , in a प्रक्रम कि परिवर्तन  a proton to a neutron or the other way around .
The nucleus may capture an  orbiting इलेक्ट्रॉन , converting a प्रोटॉन into a न्यूट्रॉन  ( electron capture ) .
All of  ये प्रक्रियाओं परिणाम in नाभिकीय  transmutation .
By contrast ,  वहीँ मौजूद रेडियोसक्रिय क्षय प्रक्रियाओं कि do नहीं परिणाम  in transmutation .
The energy of an excited nucleus may be emitted  as a गामा रे in गामा क्षय , or प्रयुक्त to eject an कक्षीय इलेक्ट्रॉन by बातचीत साथ  the excited nucleus in a process called internal conversion .
Radioisotopes occasionally emit neutrons , and this results  in a बदलें in an तत्व इससे एक  isotope to another .
One type of radioactive decay results  in उत्पाद जिससे हैं नहीं पारिभाषित , लकिन appear  in a range of `` pieces '' of the original nucleus .
इस क्षय is पुकारा spontaneous  fission .
This decay happens when  a विशाल अस्थिर केंद्रक अनायास splits into दो ( और  occasionally three ) smaller daughter nuclei , and usually emits gamma rays , neutrons , or other particles as a consequence .
Radioactive decay is a stochastic ( i.e. , random ) process at the level of single  अणु , in कि , according to क्वांटम सिद्धान्त , it is नामुमकिन  to predict when a particular atom will decay .
However , the chance that a  दिए अणु होगा क्षय is निरंतर  over time .
For a large number of atoms , the decay rate for the collection is computable from the  measured क्षय स्थिरांक of the न्यूक्लाइड ( or equivalently इससे the half-lifes ) .
Waxing is a form of semi-permanent  बाल हटाना जिससे removes the बाल  from the root .
New hair will not grow back in the previously waxed area for two  to आठ सप्ताह , हालांकि कुछ लोगों होगा प्रारंभ to  see regrowth in only a week .
Almost any area of the  देह can be waxed , सहित eyebrows , फेस , बिकिनी क्षेत्रफल  , legs , arms , back , abdomen and feet .
There are many  प्रकार of वैक्सिंग उपयुक्त लिये  removing unwanted hair .
Strip waxing is  संपन्नता by spreading a मोम thinly over the स्किन  .
A cloth or paper strip is then pressed on the  शीर्ष और ripped बंद the दिशा  of hair growth .
This removes the wax  साथ साथ the बाल  .
Strip wax  can भी be बना at घर  using lemon juice , water , sugar and honey .
Hot waxing utilizes Hot wax ( as  opposed to स्ट्रिप मोम  ) .
In this case , the wax is applied somewhat thickly and with no  cloth or पेपर स्ट्रिप्स  .
The wax then hardens when it cools , thus  allowing the आसान हटाना by a चिकित्सक बगैर  the aid of cloths .
This waxing  विधि is बहुत फायदेमंद to लोगों  who have sensitive skin .
Wall painting (  1st सदी ad ) इससे pompeii depicting  a multigenerational banquet
Ancient Roman culture existed throughout the  लगभग 1200-year इतिहास of the सभ्यता  of Ancient Rome .
The term refers to the culture of the Roman Republic , later the Roman Empire ,  जिससे , at इसके शिखर , covered an क्षेत्रफल इससे lowland स्कॉटलैंड  and Morocco to the Euphrates .
Life in  प्राचीन रोम revolved around the नगर of रोम , इसके  famed seven hills , and its monumental structures such as the Flavian Amphitheatre ( now called the Colosseum ) , the Forum of Trajan , and the Pantheon .
The city also had several theaters  , gymnasiums , और अनेक taverns , baths , और brothels  .
Throughout the territory under ancient Rome 's control , residential architecture ranged from very modest houses to country  विला , और in the पूंजी नगर of रोम , वहीँ यहूद इम्पीरियल निवास on the सुरुचिपूर्ण palatine  Hill , from which the word palace is derived .
The vast  बहुमत of the जनसांख्यिकी जिया in the  city center , packed into insulae ( apartment blocks ) .
The city of Rome was the largest megalopolis of that time ,  साथ a जनसांख्यिकी कि may खूब have exceeded एक लाख लोगों , साथ a ऊँची समाप्त अनुमान  of 3.6 million and a low end estimate of 450,000 .
Historical estimates indicate that around 30  प्रतिशत of the जनसांख्यिकी अंतर्गत the नगर 's क्षेत्राधिकार जिया in innumerable शहरी centers , साथ जनसांख्यिकी of at तनिक 10,000  and several military settlements , a very high rate of urbanization by pre-industrial standards .
the सबसे urbanized भाग of the साम्राज्य थी इटली , जिससे था an  estimated rate of urbanization of 32 % , the same rate of urbanization of England in 1800 .
Most Roman towns and cities had a forum , temples and the same type of buildings ,  on a छोटी स्केल , as मिला in  Rome .
The large urban population required an endless supply  of खाना जिससे थी a जटिल logistical कार्य , सहित acquiring , transporting , storing  and distribution of food for Rome and other urban centers .
Italian farms supplied vegetables and fruits ,  लकिन मछली और मांस यहूद luxuries  .
Aqueducts were built to bring  जल to शहरी centers और वाइन और आयल यहूद आयातित इससे hispania  , Gaul and Africa .
There was a very large amount  of कॉमर्स between the प्रांतों of the रोमन साम्राज्य  , since its transportation technology was very efficient .
The  औसत लागत of हस्तांतरण और the प्रौद्योगिकी  were comparable with 18th-century Europe .
The later city of Rome did not fill  the स्पेस भीतर इसके प्राचीन aurelian  walls until after 1870 .
Eighty  प्रतिशत of the जनसांख्यिकी अंतर्गत the क्षेत्राधिकार of प्राचीन रोम जिया  in the countryside in settlements with less than 10 thousand inhabitants .
Landlords generally resided  in शहरों और उनके estates यहूद बाएँ  in the care of farm managers .
The  दुर्दशा of ग्रामीण स्लेव थी generally बदतर than उनके counterparts working in शहरी  aristocratic households .
To stimulate a  उच्चतर मजदूर उत्पादकता सबसे जमींदार freed a विशाल क्रमांक of  slaves and many received wages .
Some records indicate that `` as many as 42 people lived in one small  फार्म हट in मिश्र , जबकि छह परिवारों  owned a single olive tree . '' .
Such a rural environment  जारी to induce माइग्रेशन of जनसांख्यिकी to शहरी centers जबतक the जल्दी 2nd सदी , जब the शहरी जनसांख्यिकी रोका  growing and started to decline .
Starting in the middle of the 2nd century BC , private  यूनानी संस्कृति थी increasingly in ascendancy , in spite of tirades विरूद्ध the `` softening '' प्रभाव  of Hellenized culture from the conservative moralists .
By the time of Augustus , cultured Greek household slaves taught the Roman young (  sometimes भी the लड़कियों ) ; शेफ़ , decorators , secretaries , डॉक्टर , और hairdressers—all  came from the Greek East .
Greek  sculptures सुशोभित hellenistic लैंडस्केप बागवानी on the palatine or in  the villas , or were imitated in Roman sculpture yards by Greek slaves .
the रोमन भोजन preserved in the  cookery books ascribed to Apicius is essentially Greek .
Roman writers  disdained लैटिन लिये a संस्कारी यूनानी  style .
Only in law and governance was the Italic nature  of रोम 's accretive संस्कृति परम्  .
Against this human background , both the urban and rural setting , one of history 's most influential  सभ्यताओं took आकार , leaving पीछे a सांस्कृतिक विरासत  that survives in part today .
James Joseph `` Duffy '' Waldorf , Jr. ( born August 20 ,  1962 ) is an अमरीकी पेशेवर  golfer .
कांच बोतलों ( लिये खीरा  slices ) on shipping pallets
A  सोवियत मेयोनेज़  jar
A modern ``  फ्रेंच  Kilner '' jar
कांच उत्पादन involves दो प्रमुख विधि – the फ्लैश कांच  process , which produces sheet glass , and glassblowing which produces bottles and other containers .
A season is a  subdivision of the साल , चिह्नित by परिवर्तन  in weather , ecology , and hours of daylight .
Seasons result from the yearly revolution of the Earth around the Sun and the tilt of the  धरती 's अक्ष सापेक्ष to the प्लेन of क्रान्ति  .
In temperate and polar regions  , the सीज़न हैं चिह्नित by परिवर्तन in the तीव्रता of धूप कि पहुँच the धरती 's सतह , विसंगतियाँ  of which may cause animals to go into hibernation or to migrate , and plants to be dormant .
During May ,  जून और जुलाई , the उत्तरी गोलार्ध  is exposed to more direct sunlight because the hemisphere faces the sun .
The same is  सच्चा of the दक्षिणी गोलार्ध in नवम्बर  , December and January .
It is the tilt of the Earth that causes the Sun to be  उच्चतर in the आसमान दौरान the गर्मियाँ  months which increases the solar flux .
However , due to seasonal lag ,  जून , जुलाई और अगस्त हैं the hottest महीने in the उत्तरी गोलार्ध और दिसम्बर , जनवरी  and February are the hottest months in the southern hemisphere .
In temperate and subpolar regions , generally four calendar -based seasons ( with their adjectives )  हैं पहचाना : वसन्त ( vernal ) , गर्मियाँ ( estival ) , पतझड़ ( autumnal ) और शीत  ( hibernal ) .
However , ecologists mostly use a six season model for  शीतोष्ण जलवायु regions कि शामिल pre-spring ( prevernal ) और लेट गर्मियाँ ( serotinal  ) as distinct seasons along with the traditional four .
Hot regions have two or three seasons ; the  बरसात ( or गीला , or मानसून ) ऋतु और the शुष्क ऋतु , और in कुछ  tropical areas , a cool or mild season .
In some parts of  the संसार , खास `` सीज़न '' हैं loosely पारिभाषित आधारित  on important events such as a hurricane season , tornado season or a wildfire season .
The six  ecological सीज़न
The four calendar seasons , depicted in  an प्राचीन रोमन मोज़ेक इससे ट्यूनीशिया
The Battle  of फोर्ट sumter ( अप्रैल 12–14 , 1861 ) थी the बमबारी और आत्मसमर्पण of फोर्ट sumter , निकट चार्ल्सटन , दक्षिण कैरोलिना  , that started the American Civil War .
following घोषणाओं of secession by सात दक्षिणी राज्य , दक्षिण कैरोलिना  demanded that the U.S. Army abandon its facilities in Charleston Harbor .
On December 26 , 1860 , U.S. Major Robert  एंडरसन surreptitiously स्थानांतरित उसके छोटी कमांड इससे the indefensible फोर्ट moultrie on सुलीवान 's द्वीप to फोर्ट sumter  , a substantial fortress controlling the entrance of Charleston Harbor .
An  attempt by u.S. अध्यक्ष जेम्स बुकानन to reinforce और resupply एंडरसन , using the  unarmed merchant ship Star of the West , failed when it was fired upon by shore batteries on January 9 , 1861 .
South Carolina authorities then seized all Federal  प्रॉपर्टी in the चार्ल्सटन क्षेत्रफल , मगर लिये फोर्ट  Sumter .
During the early months of 1861 , the  हालात around फोर्ट sumter increasingly began to resemble  a siege .
In March , Brig . Gen. P. G. T. Beauregard , the  पहला सामान्य अधिकारी of the newly formed confederate राज्य  of America , was placed in command of Confederate forces in Charleston .
Beauregard energetically directed the strengthening of batteries  around चार्ल्सटन हार्बर aimed at फोर्ट  Sumter .
Conditions in the fort grew dire as the Union  सैनिको rushed to पूरा the संस्थापना of अतिरिक्त बंदूकों  .
Anderson was  छोटी of मेन , खाना , और आपूर्तियाँ  .
the resupply of फोर्ट sumter became the पहला संकट  of the administration of President Abraham Lincoln .
He notified the Governor of  दक्षिण कैरोलिना , फ्रांसिस W. pickens , कि he थी sending सप्लाई जहाजों ,  which resulted in an ultimatum from the Confederate government : evacuate Fort Sumter immediately .
Major  एंडरसन refused to आत्मसमर्पण  .
Beginning at 4:30 a.m. on April 12 , the Confederates bombarded the  फोर्ट इससे तोपखाने बैटरी surrounding the हार्बर  .
Although the Union garrison returned fire , they were significantly  outgunned और , बाद 34 घंटों , प्रमुख एंडरसन सहमत to evacuate  .
There was no loss of life on either side as a direct result of this  सगाई , हालांकि a गन विस्फोट दौरान the आत्मसमर्पण ceremonies  on April 14 caused two Union deaths .
Following the battle , there was widespread support from  दोनो उत्तर और दक्षिण लिये further सैन्य कार्रवाई  .
Lincoln 's immediate call for 75,000 volunteers to suppress the rebellion resulted  in an अतिरिक्त चार दक्षिणी स्लेव राज्य भी declaring उनके secession और joining  the Confederacy .
the सिविल युद्ध  had begun .
3G , short for third  पीढी , is the तीसरा पीढी of मोबाईल  telecommunications technology .
3G telecommunication  संजाल support सेवाएं कि provide an सूचना ट्रांसफ़र  rate of at least 200 kbit/s .
However ,  अनेक सेवाएं advertised as 3g provide उच्चतर गति than the न्यूनतम  technical requirements for a 3G service .
Recent 3G releases , often denoted 3.5G  और 3.75g , भी provide मोबाईल ब्रॉडबैंड अभिगम of अनेक mbit/s  to smartphones and mobile modems in laptop computers .
3G finds application in wireless voice telephony ,  मोबाईल अंतरजाल अभिगम , फिक्स्ड बेतार अंतरजाल अभिगम ,  video calls and mobile TV .
``  mazel tov ! '' लिखा on a  wine glass tag
Traditionally , after the groom breaks the  कांच , the अतिथि चिल्लाओ `` mazel  Tov ! `` .
A birthday cake , iced with the  शब्द `` מזל טוב '' ( mazal tov )  , as is often done in Israel .
यहाँ the phrase is  written in Hebrew cursive .
`` Mazel tov '' or `` mazal tov '' ( Hebrew / Yiddish : `` מזל טוב '' , Hebrew : ``  mazal tov '' ; यहूदी : `` mazel tov '' ; lit .
`` good luck '' ) is a phrase used to express  बधाई लिये a प्रसन्न और significant अवसर  or event .
Hepatitis C is an  संक्रामक बीमारी affecting  primarily the liver , caused by the hepatitis C virus ( HCV ) .
The infection is often asymptomatic , but chronic infection can lead to  scarring of the जिगर और ultimately to cirrhosis  , which is generally apparent after many years .
In  कुछ मामले , those साथ cirrhosis होगा go on to develop जिगर विफलता  , liver cancer or life-threatening esophageal and gastric varices .
HCV is spread primarily by  blood-to-blood सम्पर्क संबद्ध साथ intravenous ड्रग उपयोग ,  poorly sterilized medical equipment and transfusions .
An  अनुमानित 130–200 लाख  people worldwide are infected with .
The existence of (  originally `` non- a non- b hepatitis '' ) थी postulated in  the 1970s and proven in 1989 .
तभी infects इंसानो  and chimpanzees .
The virus persists in the liver  in परिचय 85 % of those संक्रमित  .
This persistent infection can be treated with medication : the standard therapy is a combination of peginterferon and ribavirin , with either  boceprevir or telaprevir  added in some cases .
Overall , 50–80 % of  लोगों treated  are cured .
Those who develop cirrhosis or liver  कर्कट may आवश्यकता a जिगर  transplant .
is the leading cause of liver  प्रत्यारोपण , हालांकि the वायरस प्रायः बारंबार बाद प्रत्यारोपण .
No vaccine  विरूद्ध is उपलब्धियाँ .
A flexible spending account ( FSA ) , also  ज्ञात as a लचीली बिता व्यवस्था , is एक of a क्रमांक of tax-advantaged वित्तीय  accounts that can be set up through a cafeteria plan of an employer in the United States .
An FSA allows an employee to set aside a portion of earnings to pay for qualified expenses as established in  the कैफेटेरिया योजना , सबसे commonly लिये चिकित्सा खर्च लकिन प्रायः लिये निर्भर परवाह or अन्य खर्च  .
धन deducted इससे an कर्मचारी 's अदा into an fsa is  not subject to payroll taxes , resulting in substantial payroll tax savings .
One significant disadvantage to using an FSA is that funds not used by  the समाप्त of the योजना साल हैं खोया to the कर्मचारी , ज्ञात as the `` उपयोग it or खोना it  '' rule .
The most common type of flexible spending account , the medical expense FSA ( also medical FSA or  स्वास्थ्य fsa ) , is समान to a स्वास्थ्य बचत खाता ( hsa ) or a स्वास्थ्य reimbursement  account ( HRA ) .
However , while HSAs and HRAs are almost exclusively used as components  of a उपभोक्ता चलित स्वास्थ्य परवाह योजना , चिकित्सा fsas हैं commonly offered साथ अधिक परंपरागत स्वास्थ्य  plans as well .
In addition , funds in  a स्वास्थ्य बचत खाता हैं नहीं खोया जब the  plan year is over , unlike funds in an FSA .
Paper forms or an FSA debit  कार्ड , भी ज्ञात as a flexcard , may be  used to access the account funds .
Tennessee ( ) ( ) is a  u.S. राज्य स्तिथ in the southeastern संयुक्त  States .
टेनेसी is the 36th सबसे extensive और the  17th most populous of the 50 United States .
Tennessee is bordered by Kentucky and Virginia to the north , North Carolina to  the ईस्ट , जॉर्जिया , अलबामा , और मिसिसिपी to the दक्षिण , और  Arkansas and Missouri to the west .
The  एपलाशियन kyu dominate the पूर्वी भाग of the राज्य , और the  Mississippi River forms the state 's western border .
Tennessee 's capital and second largest city is  नैशविले , जिससे रै a जनसांख्यिकी of 609,644  .
Memphis is the state 's largest city ,  साथ a जनसांख्यिकी of 652,050 .
The state of Tennessee is rooted in the Watauga Association , a 1772 frontier  अनुबंध generally regarded as the पहला संवैधानिक सरकारी वेस्ट of the appalachians  .
What is now  टेनेसी थी initially भाग of उत्तर कैरोलिना ,  and later part of the Southwest Territory .
टेनेसी थी admitted to the संघ as  the 16th state on June 1 , 1796 .
Tennessee was the last state to leave the Union and  जुड़ें the confederacy at the outbreak of the u.S. सिविल युद्ध in 1861 , और the पहला राज्य to be readmitted to  the Union at the end of the war .
Tennessee furnished  अधिक सैनिको लिये the confederate फौज than कोई अन्य राज्य  , and more soldiers for the Union Army than any other Southern state .
In the 20th century ,  टेनेसी transitioned इससे an कृषिक अर्थव्यवस्था to a अधिक diversified अर्थव्यवस्था , aided at  times by federal entities such as the Tennessee Valley Authority .
In the early 1940s , the city of Oak Ridge was established to house the  मैनहटन प्रोजेक्ट 's यूरेनियम संवर्धन सुविधाएं , helping to निर्माण  the world 's first atomic bomb .
Tennessee has played a critical role in the  विकास of अनेक फ़ॉर्म of अमरीकी लोकप्रिय म्यूज़िक , सहित  rock and roll , blues , country , and rockabilly .
Beale Street in Memphis is considered by many to be the birthplace of the blues , with  संगीतकारों ऐसे as w.c . सुलभ performing in इसके क्लब as जल्दी  as 1909 .
Memphis was also home to Sun Records ,  जहाँ संगीतकारों ऐसे as एल्विस प्रेस्ली , इसहाक़ हेज़ , जॉनी नकदी , कार्ल perkins , जेरी ली लुईस , रॉय orbison , और  Charlie Rich began their recording careers , and where rock and roll took shape in the 1950s .
The 1927 Victor recording sessions in Bristol generally  चिह्नित the शुरूआत of the देश म्यूज़िक विधा और the वृद्धि of the ग्रैंड ओले opry in the 1930s helped मेक नैशविले the बीच of  the country music recording industry .
Three bricks and mortar museums recognize Tennessee 's role in nurturing various forms of popular music : the Memphis Rock N ' Soul Museum , the  देश म्यूज़िक हॉल of कीर्ति और संग्रहालय in नैशविले , और the अंतरराष्ट्रीय rock-a-billy संग्रहालय in जैक्सन  .
In addition , the  rockabilly हॉल of कीर्ति , an ऑनलाइन साईट recognizing the  development of rockabilly in which Tennessee played a crucial role , is based in Nashville .
Tennessee 's major industries  शामिल कृषि , निर्माण , और पर्यटन  .
Poultry , soybeans , and cattle are the  राज्य 's प्राथमिक agricultural उत्पाद , और प्रमुख निर्माण निर्यात शामिल रसायन , परिवहन उपकरण  , and electrical equipment .
The Great Smoky Mountains National Park , the  स्वदेश 's सबसे visited नेशनल पार्क , is headquartered in the पूर्वी भाग of the राज्य , और a खण्ड of the एपलाशियन  Trail roughly follows the Tennessee-North Carolina border .
Other major tourist attractions include the Tennessee Aquarium in Chattanooga , the Sunsphere in Knoxville , Dollywood in Pigeon Forge , the Parthenon , the Country Music Hall of Fame and Museum , and Ryman  ऑडिटोरियम in नैशविले , और एल्विस प्रेस्ली 's graceland निवास  and tomb in Memphis .
One design  रूपांतर of a मुर्गा रिंग  .
A cock ring is a ring that can be placed around a man 's penis , usually at the base , primarily to  slow the प्रवाह of रक्त इससे the वीर्यपात penile ऊतक , यूँ maintaining an स्तंभन लिये a much  longer period of time .
Cock rings can be worn around just the  शिश्न or दोनो the शिश्न और scrotum , or बस the scrotum अलोन , हालांकि  this is usually called a testicle cuff .
Rings can be made of a variety of different materials , most commonly leather , rubber ,  or silicone , हालांकि नायलॉन और मेटल हैं भी प्रयुक्त either as  the main component or part of the closure .
The term cock ring is sometimes used as a synonym for a Prince Albert  piercing , a piercing of the शिश्न कि is प्रायः , हालांकि नहीं सदा , a मेटल रिंग  .
जब प्रयुक्त in मामले of erectile dysfunction वे हैं ज्ञात  by various names such as `` erection ring '' and `` tension ring '' .
The headquarters of  प्रमुख लीग बेसबॉल at 245 पार्क एवेन्यू , midtown मैनहटन  , New York City , USA .
Major League Baseball ( MLB  ) is a पेशेवर बेसबॉल लीग , consisting  of teams that play in the National League and the American League .
Dating to 1876 and 1901  क्रमशः , the दो लीग मिलाया in 2000 into a सिंगल संगठन led by the कमिश्नर  of Baseball , after 100 years as separate legal entities .
MLB  constitutes एक of the प्रमुख पेशेवर खेल लीग  of the United States and Canada .
It is composed of 30 teams —  29 in the संयुक्त राज्य और एक  in Canada .
Teams in MLB play 162 games each season over six months (  अप्रैल through सितंबर  ) .
Five teams in each league advance to a four-round postseason tournament  कि culminates in the संसार श्रेणी , a best-of-seven-games चैंपियनशिप श्रेणी  between the two league champions which dates to 1903 .
The organization oversees many minor-league baseball leagues which  operate परिचय 240 टीमों संबद्ध साथ the major-league  clubs .
With the International Baseball Federation , the league  भी manages the अंतरराष्ट्रीय संसार बेसबॉल  Classic tournament .
MLB has the highest season attendance of any  खेल लीग in the संसार साथ nearly 75 लाख spectators  in 2012 .
Delaware  ( ) is a u.S. राज्य स्तिथ on the अटलांटिक coast in  the Mid-Atlantic region of the United States .
It is bordered to the south and west by Maryland , to the  पूर्वोत्तर by नई जर्सी , और to the उत्तर by  Pennsylvania .
The state takes its name from Thomas West , 3rd Baron De La Warr , an English  nobleman और वर्जिनिया 's पहला औपनिवेशिक राज्यपाल , बाद जिसको कया is अभी पुकारा केप  Henlopen was originally named .
Delaware is located in the northeastern portion of the Delmarva Peninsula and is the second smallest , the sixth least  populous , लकिन the छठे सबसे densely आबादी of the पचास संयुक्त राज्य  .
डेलावेयर is विभाजित into तीन काउंटी  .
From  उत्तर to दक्षिण , ये तीन काउंटी  are New Castle , Kent , and Sussex .
While the southern two  काउंटी have historically महरूम predominantly agricultural , नई  Castle County has been more industrialized .
Before its coastline was explored by Europeans  in the 16th सदी , डेलावेयर थी inhabited by अनेक समूह of देशी अमेरिकी  , including the Lenape in the north and Nanticoke in the south .
It was initially  colonized by डच व्यापारियों at zwaanendael , स्तिथ निकट  the present town of Lewes , in 1631 .
डेलावेयर थी एक of the 13 colonies participating in the अमरीकी क्रान्ति और on दिसम्बर 7  , 1787 , became the first state to ratify the Constitution of the United States , thereby becoming known as The First State .
Energy  परिवर्तन in उर्जा प्रणालियों  Language
Energy transformation  or उर्जा परिवर्तन is the प्रक्रम of बदलना  one form of energy to another .
In physics , the term energy describes the capacity to produce  निश्चित परिवर्तन भीतर a प्रणाली , बगैर लिहाज़ to सीमाएं in परिवर्तन  imposed by Entropy .
Changes in total energy of systems can only be accomplished by adding or subtracting energy from them , as energy is a quantity which is  conserved , according to the पहला विधि of ऊष्मागतिकी  .
According to special relativity , changes in the energy of systems will also coincide with changes in the system 's mass , and the total  राशि of द्रव्यमान of a प्रणाली is a माप of इसके उर्जा  .
Energy in a  प्रणाली may be रूपांतरित so कि it resides in a  different state , or a different type of energy .
Energy in many states may be used  to do अनेक किस्में  of physical work .
Energy may be used in natural processes or machines ,  or else to provide कुछ सेवा to समाज ( ऐसे as ऊष्मा  , light , or motion ) .
For example , an internal combustion engine converts the potential chemical  उर्जा in गैसोलीन और ऑक्सीजन into ऊष्मा , जिससे is तब रूपांतरित into the propulsive उर्जा ( गतिज उर्जा कि  moves a vehicle ) .
A  सौर कोशिका converts सौर विकिरण into विद्युत  energy that can then be used to light a bulb or power a computer .
The  जेनेरिक नाम लिये a यंत्र जिससे converts  energy from one form to another , is a transducer .
In  सामान्य , सबसे प्रकार of उर्जा , सहेजें लिये थर्मल  energy , may be converted efficiently to any other kind of energy .
Sometimes  इस occurs साथ an दक्षता of essentially 100 % , ऐसे as जब संभावित उर्जा is परिवर्तित to गतिज उर्जा  as an object falls in vacuum , or when it orbits nearer or farther from another object , in space .
Conversion of other types of energies to heat may also occurs with  nearly पूर्ण दक्षता ( अनेक प्रकार of घर्षण  do this ) .
Exceptions for perfect conversion efficiency ( even for isolated systems ) occur when energy has already been partly distributed among many available quantum  राज्य लिये a संग्रहण of अणु , जिससे हैं freely अनुमत to explore कोई  state of momentum and position ( phase space ) .
In such  हालातों , a माप पुकारा एन्ट्रॉपी , or evening-out of उर्जा वितरण in ऐसे राज्य  , dictates that future states of the system must be of at least equal evenness in energy distribution .
( There is no way , taking the universe as a whole , to collect  उर्जा into कम राज्य , एकबार it रै स्प्रेड to  them ) .
A consequence of this requirement is that there are limitations to the efficiency with which thermal  उर्जा can be परिवर्तित to अन्य kinds of उर्जा , चूंकि थर्मल उर्जा in संतुलन  at a given temperature already represents the maximal evening-out of energy between all possible states .
Such energy  is sometimes माना `` degraded उर्जा , '' क्युकी  it is not entirely usable .
The second law of thermodynamics is a way of stating that , for this reason , thermal energy in a system may be converted to other kinds of energy with efficiencies approaching 100 % , only if the entropy ( even-ness or disorder  ) of the ब्रह्मांड is increased by अन्य अर्थात् , to compensate लिये the घटी in एन्ट्रॉपी संबद्ध साथ the disappearance of the  thermal energy and its entropy content .
Otherwise , only a part of thermal energy may be converted to other kinds of energy ( and thus  , उपयोगी कार्य ) , चूंकि the शेष of the ऊष्मा जरूर be सुरक्षित to be transferred to a थर्मल टंकी at a निम्नतर तापमान , in ऐसे a रास्ता कि the बढ़ाएँ in एन्ट्रॉपी लिये इस प्रक्रम अधिक than compensates लिये the  entropy decrease associated with transformation of the rest of the heat into other types of energy .
The National Hockey League ( NHL ; ) is an ``  unincorporated not-for-profit संघ '' जिससे operates a प्रमुख पेशेवर बर्फ हॉकी  league of 30 franchised member clubs , of which seven are currently located in Canada and 23 in the United States .
Headquartered in New  यॉर्क नगर , the एनएचएल is widely माना to be the प्रीमियर पेशेवर बर्फ  hockey league in the world , and one of the major professional sports leagues in the United States and Canada .
The Stanley Cup , the oldest professional sports trophy in  उत्तर अमेरिका , is awarded annually to the लीग playoff चैंपियन  at the end of each season .
The league was organized on November 26 ,  1917 , in मॉन्ट्रियल , क्यूबेक , कनाडा , बाद the बर्खास्तगी of परिचालन of  its predecessor organization , the National Hockey Association ( NHA ) , which had been founded in 1909 .
It started with four teams and , through  a श्रेणी of expansions , contractions , और relocations , the लीग is  now composed of 30 active franchises .
The nation to which the name of the league originally referred was Canada , although the league  रै अभी महरूम binational चूंकि 1924 जब it  expanded into the United States .
After a labour dispute that led to the cancellation of the entire 2004–05 season , the league resumed  खेल अंतर्गत a नई सामूहिक bargaining अनुबंध कि शामिल a सैलरी  cap .
In 2009 , the NHL enjoyed record highs in terms  of sponsorships , उपस्थिति  , and television audiences .
The NHL draws many highly skilled  खिलाड़ी इससे सब over the संसार और  currently has players from about 20 different countries .
Although  canadians have historically गठित the बहुमत of the खिलाड़ी in the एनएचएल ,  over the past four plus decades the percentages of US and European players have increased both because of the NHL 's continued expansion from six to thirty clubs since 1967 , and the increased availability of highly skilled European players .
This is the complete list of the ratified and unratified  amendments to the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान जिससे प्राप्त the स्वीकृति of the  United States Congress .
Twenty-seven amendments have been  ratified चूंकि the असली हस्ताक्षर of the संविधान  , the first ten of which are known collectively as the Bill of Rights .
The  कार्यविधि लिये amending the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान  is governed by Article V of the original text .
There have been many other proposals for  amendments to the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान introduced in  Congress , but not submitted to the states .
Before an amendment can take effect , it must be proposed  to the राज्य by a two-thirds vote of दोनो घरों of कॉंग्रेस or by a सम्मेलन ( ज्ञात as an आलेख v सम्मेलन ) पुकारा by two-thirds of the राज्य , और ratified by three-fourths of the राज्य  or by three-fourths of conventions thereof , the method of ratification being determined by Congress at the time of proposal .
To date , no convention for proposing amendments has been called by the states , and  तभी once—in 1933 लिये the अनुसमर्थन of the twenty-first amendment —has the सम्मेलन विधि  of ratification been employed .
FMR LLC ( Fidelity Management and Research ) or Fidelity Investments is  an अमरीकी बहुराष्ट्रीय वित्तीय सेवाएं निगम  .
It is one of the largest  परस्पर निधि और वित्तीय सेवाएं  groups in the world .
It was founded in 1946 and  serves उत्तर अमरीकी निवेशकों  .
Fidelity  ventures is इसके  venture capital arm .
Fidelity International  सीमित ( फील ) , थी an अंतरराष्ट्रीय संबद्ध संस्थापित in 1969 , सेवारत  most countries in the rest of the world .
In September 2011 , FIL was  rebranded as 'fidelity विश्वव्यापी निवेश '  .
Fidelity Investments manages a large family of mutual funds , provides fund distribution and investment  सलाह सेवाएं , as खूब as providing छूट brokerage सेवाएं , रिटायरमेंट सेवाएं , माल  management , securities execution and clearance , life insurance and a number of other services .
जून 2006 थी the छठे  month of that year .
It began on a Thursday and ended after 30 days on a Friday The  following कार्यक्रम भी occurred दौरान the मोंटh:
Sociology is the scientific study of  इंसान समाज और इसके origins , विकास , संगठन  , and institutions .
It is a social science  जिससे उपयोग विभिन्न विधि of अनुभवजन्य छानबीन और नाजुक विश्लेषण to develop a देह of ज्ञान  about human social activity , structures , and functions .
A goal for many sociologists is to  conduct शोध जिससे may be लागू सीधे to सोशल नीति और welfare ,  while others focus primarily on refining the theoretical understanding of social processes .
Subject matter ranges from the micro level of  व्यक्तिगत एजेंसी और बातचीत to the मैक्रो स्तर of प्रणालियों और the  social structure .
The traditional focuses of sociology include social stratification , social class  , संस्कृति , रेस और नस्ल , लिंग और कामुकता , सोशल गतिशीलता  , religion , secularization , law , and deviance .
As all spheres of human activity are affected by the interplay between social structure and individual agency , sociology has gradually  विस्तारित इसके फ़ोकस to further विषय , ऐसे as स्वास्थ्य , चिकित्सा , सैन्य और penal संस्थानों  , the Internet , environmental sociology , political economy and the role of social activity in the development of scientific knowledge .
The  दायरा of सोशल वैज्ञानिक विधि  has also expanded .
Social researchers draw  upon a किस्में of गुणात्मक और quantitative  techniques .
the भाषाई और सांस्कृतिक turns of the mid-twentieth सदी led to increasingly  interpretative , hermeneutic , and philosophic approaches to the analysis of society .
Conversely , recent decades have seen the rise of  नई analytically , mathematically और computationally कठोर तकनीकों , ऐसे as agent-based मॉडलिंग  and social network analysis .
Sociology should not  be उलझन साथ विभिन्न सामान्य सोशल अध्ययन पाठ्यक्रम जिससे भालू छोटी संबंध  to sociological theory or social science research methodology .
थंडर is the ध्वनि caused by  lightning .
Depending on the nature of the lightning and distance of the  श्रोता , थंडर can दायरा इससे a शार्प , लाउड  crack to a long , low rumble ( brontide ) .
The sudden increase in pressure and temperature from  बिजली produces रैपिड विस्तार of the एयर surrounding और  within a bolt of lightning .
In turn , this expansion of air creates a  सोनिक शॉक वेव , समान to a सोनिक बूम , जिससे produces the ध्वनि of थंडर , प्रायः  referred to as a clap , crack , or peal of thunder .
The distance of  the बिजली can be गणना by the श्रोता आधारित on the समय अंतराल इससे  when the lightning is seen to when the sound is heard .
Palma ( , , ) , in full Palma de Mallorca , is the major city and port on the island of  majorca ( mallorca ) और पूंजी नगर of the autonomous जातियाँ of  the Balearic Islands in Spain .
The names  ciutat de mallorca ( नगर of majorca ) और ciutat ( नगर ) यहूद प्रयुक्त पहले the  War of the Spanish Succession and are still used by people in Majorca .
However , the  आधिकारिक नाम थी mallorca , the  same as the island .
it is situated on the दक्षिण coast  of the island on the Bay of Palma .
As of the 2009 census , the population of the city of Palma proper was 401,270 , and the population of the  संपूर्ण शहरी क्षेत्रफल थी 517,285 , रैंकिंग as the बारहवीं largest शहरी क्षेत्रफल  of Spain .
लगभग हाफ of the कुल जनसांख्यिकी  of Majorca live in Palma .
The Cabrera Archipelago , though widely separated from Palma  उचित , is administratively माना भाग of the नगरपालिका  .
Its airport , Son Sant Joan , serves  over 22 लाख यात्री प्रत्येक  year .
The Marivent Palace was offered by the  नगर to the तब प्रिंस जुआन कार्लोस  I of Spain .
The royals have  चूंकि खर्च उनके गर्मियाँ छुट्टियाँ in पालमा  .
luthor redirects  here .
For other uses ,  देखिए लूथर ( बहुविकल्पी  ) .
Alexander Joseph `` Lex '' Luthor is a  fictional अक्षर , a supervillain  appearing in comic books published by DC Comics .
Luthor is the archenemy of Superman , and as a high-status  supervillain , रै भी आइये into विरोध साथ बैटमैन  and other superheroes in the DC Universe .
Created by Jerry Siegel and  जो shuster , the अक्षर पहला appeared in कार्रवाई  Comics # 23 ( April 1940 ) .
Luthor is described as `` a  power-mad , दुष्ट वैज्ञानिक '' of ऊँची प्रज्ञा  and incredible technological prowess .
Luthor 's goals typically center on killing Superman ,  the foremost बाधा to achieving the विलेन 's megalomaniacal लक्ष्य  .
Despite  periodically wearing a संचालित बहि  , Luthor has traditionally lacked superpowers or a dual identity .
The character was originally depicted as a mad scientist who , in the vein of pulp  novels , wreaks कहर on the संसार साथ उसके अत्याधुनिक weaponry  .
In his earliest  दिखावे , luthor is दिखाया साथ a पूरा  head of red hair .
Despite this , the character  बाद became hairless as the परिणाम  of an artist 's mistake .
A 1960 story by Jerry Siegel expanded upon Luthor 's origin and motivations , revealing  उसे to be a बाल्यकाल dost of सुपरमैन 's जो खोया उसके बाल जब a आग नष्ट उसके प्रयोगशाला  ; Luthor vowed revenge .
Following the 1985 limited series Crisis on Infinite Earths , the character was re-imagined as a  machiavellian उद्योगपति और white-collar दण्ड , भी briefly सेवारत as अध्यक्ष  of the United States .
In  हाल सालो , विभिन्न लेखक  have revived Luthor 's mad scientist persona from the 1940s .
The character was ranked  as the 8th महानतम विलेन by जादूगर on इसके 100 महानतम  Villains of All Time list .
IGN 's list of the Top 100 Comic Book  खलनायक of सब समय क्रमित  Luthor as # 4 .
luthor is भी वर्णित as a `` megavillain '' by कॉमिक किताब आलोचक पीटर sanderson , एक of a few genre-crossing खलनायक जिनकी adventures लो प्लेस `` in  a world in which the ordinary laws of nature are slightly suspended '' ; characters such as Professor Moriarty , Count Dracula , Hannibal Lecter , Doctor Doom , and Darth Vader , also fit this description .
Martin Luther King , Jr. Day is a United States federal holiday marking the birthday of Rev  . dr. मार्टिन लूथर किंग  , Jr .
It is observed on the third Monday of January  प्रत्येक साल , जिससे is around the समय of किंग 's जन्मदिवस  , January 15 .
The floating holiday is similar to holidays set under the Uniform Monday Holiday  अधिनियम , हालांकि the अधिनियम predated the स्थापना of मार्टिन लूथर किंग  , Jr. Day by 15 years .
King was the chief spokesman for nonviolent activism in the  सिविल अधिकारों गति , जिससे सफलतापूर्वक protested जातिगत पक्षपात  in federal and state law .
The campaign for a federal holiday in  किंग 's सम्मान began जल्द बाद उसके हत्या  in 1968 .
Ronald Reagan signed the holiday into law in 1983 , and it was first  observed on जनवरी 20 , 1986  .
At first , some states resisted observing the holiday as such ,  giving it वैकल्पिक names or combining it साथ अन्य छुट्टियाँ  .
It was  officially observed in सब 50 राज्य  for the first time in 2000 .
The camera phone solution allows  तत्काल sharing of तस्वीरें  .
As it 's automatic and instant , the user does not have to use a  केबल or removable मीडिया to कनेक्ट to a निजी  computer .
A camera phone is a mobile  फोन जिससे is समर्थ to कैप्चर स्टिल छायाचित्र ( और  usually video ) .
Since early in the 21st  सदी the बहुमत of मोबाईल फोन in उपयोग हैं  camera phones .
सबसे कैमरा फोन हैं simpler than  separate digital cameras .
Their usual fixed focus lenses and smaller  सेंसर सीमा उनके प्रदर्शन in ग़रीब  lighting .
lacking a शारीरिक शटर , सबसे  have a long shutter lag .
Flash  , जहाँ उपस्थित , is  usually weak .
Optical zoom and  तिपाई screws हैं विरल  .
Some also lack a USB connection , removable  मेमोरी कार्ड , or अन्य रास्ता of transferring उनके तस्वीरें अधिक जल्दी than by the फोन 's अंतर्निहित संचार  feature .
Some of the more expensive camera phones have only a few  of ये तकनीकी disadvantages , जिससे लागू सबसे acutely in  low light conditions and in any case have not inhibited their widespread use .
Most model lines improve in these regards  प्रत्येक साल  or two .
Some , such as the Droid Incredible only have a  मेनू चुनाव to प्रारंभ an अनुप्रयोग  program to activate the camera .
Others ,  ऐसे as the ब्लैकबेरी तूफ़ान 2 , droid x , मोटोरोला v980  and Nokia 5800 also have a separate camera button for quickness and convenience .
Windows Phones can be configured to operate  as a कैमरा भी if the फोन is  asleep .
Some camera phones are designed to resemble separate low-end digital compact cameras in appearance and to  कुछ extent in सुविधाएँ और चित्र विशेषता , और हैं ब्रांडेड as दोनो मोबाईल फोन और  cameras , including certain Sony phones .
The principal advantages of camera  फोन हैं लागत और compactness ; बेशक लिये a उपयोक्ता जो carries  a mobile phone anyway , the additional size and cost are negligible .
Smartphones that are camera phones may run mobile applications to  add सामर्थ्य ऐसे as geotagging और चित्र  stitching .
A few high end phones can  उपयोग उनके टच स्क्रीन to सीधा उनके कैमरा to फ़ोकस on a particular ऑब्जेक्ट in the फ़ील्ड of दृश्य , giving भी an अनुभवहीन उपयोक्ता  a degree of focus control exceeded only by seasoned photographers using manual focus .
`` Whatever Happened to the Man of Tomorrow ? '' is a  1986 कॉमिक किताब स्टोरी featuring the dc कॉमिक्स अक्षर  of Superman .
Written by Alan Moore with help from long-time , and soon to be retiring , Superman editor , Julius  schwartz , the स्टोरी थी प्रकाशित in दो भाग , शुरूआत in सुपरमैन # 423 और समाप्ति in कार्रवाई कॉमिक्स # 583 , दोनो प्रकाशित in सितंबर  1986 .
The story was drawn by long-time artist Curt Swan , in his final major contribution to the Superman titles , and was inked by  जार्ज pérez in the समस्या of सुपरमैन और कर्ट schaffenberger in the समस्या of  Action Comics .
The story was an imaginary tale which told the final story of the Silver Age  सुपरमैन और उसके long इतिहास , जिससे थी होने rebooted following the कार्यक्रम of संकट on अनन्त earths , पहले उसके  modern introduction in the John Byrne series , The Man of Steel .
Moore wanted his plot to honor the long history of the  अक्षर और to serve as a पूरा निष्कर्ष to उसके  mythology .
The story is a frame story set  टेन सालो बाद सुपरमैन थी पिछला देखी , जहाँ लोइस लेन recounts the  tale of the end of Superman 's career to a reporter from the Daily Planet .
Her story includes numerous violent  हमले विरूद्ध सुपरमैन by उसके दुश्मनों , the पब्लिक रहस्योद्घाटन  of his secret identity of Clark Kent and a number of deaths of those closest to him .
The story has been cited as one of the  बेहतरीन कहानियां of the अक्षर of सुपरमैन , और आलोचकों और ऑडियंस अक्सर  choose it as one of the most memorable comics ever published .
It is used as an example of how to close the long-time  निरंतरता of a कॉमिक किताब अक्षर  .
The story 's legacy has endured with similar  कहानियां लिखा as श्रद्धांजलि to  it .
The title  is a सन्दर्भ to एक of the nicknames of सुपरमैन as the man of  Tomorrow , and was used in the title of another Superman .
The Bugatti Veyron EB 16.4 is a mid-engined grand touring car , designed and developed by the Volkswagen Group and manufactured in  molsheim , फ़्रांस by bugatti ऑटोमोबाइल  S.A.S .
The Super Sport  संस्करण of the veyron is the तीव्रतम street-legal उत्पादन  car in the world , with a top speed of .
The original  संस्करण रै  a top speed of .
It was  नामित car of the दशक ( 2000–2009  ) by the BBC television programme Top Gear .
The standard Veyron won Top Gears Best Car  चलित सब साल पुरस्कार in  2005 .
On 6 April 2013 , Bugatti set the record for the  तीव्रतम roadster in the संसार साथ the veyron ग्रैंड खेल vitesse , reaching  on average a top speed of .
The Veyron 's chief designer was Hartmut Warkuss , and the exterior was designed by Jozef Kabaň of  volkswagen , साथ much of the अभियान्त्रिकी कार्य होने conducted अंतर्गत the  guidance of engineering chief Wolfgang Schreiber .
A number  of खास विसंगतियाँ have  been produced .
In December 2010 , Bugatti began offering  prospective खरीदार the क्षमता to मनपसंद exterior और इंटीरियर्स रंग by using the veyron 16.4 configurator अनुप्रयोग on the  marque 's official website .
The institution of the Eucharist has been a key theme in  the depictions of the पिछला भोजन in ईसाई आर्ट , as in इस  16th-century Juan de Juanes painting .
`` At the Last Supper , on the night he was  गद्दारी , हमारी रक्षक instituted the eucharistic बलिदान  of his Body and Blood . ''
( Catechism  of the कैथोलिक  Church 1323 )
Eucharist in the Catholic Church refers  to दोनो the जश्न of the द्रव्यमान , कि is , the eucharist liturgy , और the ब्रैड और वाइन जिससे बाद the  consecration are transubstantiated ( changed in substance ) into the body and blood of Jesus Christ , Lord and God , a declaration formulated by the Council of Trent with an anathema against anyone who denied this .
Blessed Sacrament is a devotional term used in  the रोमन कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर to refer to the eucharistic प्रजाति (  the Body and Blood of Christ ) .
The following is a list of colleges  और विश्वविद्यालयों in the u.S. राज्य  of Louisiana .
A short story is a brief work  of साहित्य , प्रायः लिखा in कथा  prose .
Emerging from earlier oral storytelling traditions in  the 17th सदी , the छोटी स्टोरी  has grown to encompass a body of work so diverse as to defy easy characterization .
At its most prototypical the short story features a small  डाल of नामित वर्ण , और focuses on a self-contained घटना  with the intent of evoking a `` single effect '' or mood .
In so doing , short stories make use of plot , resonance , and other dynamic components  to a दूर वृहद उपाधि than is ठेठ of an किस्सा , yet to a दूर lesser उपाधि than a  novel .
While the short story is largely distinct from  the अनोखा , लेखक of दोनो generally चित्रण इससे a आम  pool of literary techniques .
छोटी कहानियां have  no set length .
In terms of word count there is  no आधिकारिक demarcation between an किस्सा ,  a short story , and a novel .
Rather , the form 's parameters are given by the rhetorical  और व्यावहारिक कॉन्टेक्स्ट in जिससे a दिए स्टोरी is उत्पादित और माना , so कि कया constitutes a  short story may differ between genres , countries , eras , and commentators .
Like the novel , the short story 's predominant shape reflects the demands of the available markets for publication , and  the एवोल्यूशन of the रूप seems closely tied to the एवोल्यूशन of the प्रकाशन उद्योग और the सबमिशन दिशानिर्देश of इसके constituent  houses .
The short story has been considered both an apprenticeship form  preceding अधिक lengthy works , और a crafted रूप in  its own right , collected together in books of similar length , price , and distribution as novels .
Short story writers may define their works as part of the  कलाकारी और निजी अभिव्यक्ति of  the form .
They  may भी attempt to resist categorization  by genre and fixed form .
Area  कोड in  Michigan
Area  कोड 810 is the टेलीफोन क्षेत्रफल  code serving eastern Michigan .
The raccoon ( , Procyon lotor ) , sometimes spelled racoon , also  ज्ञात as the आम raccoon , उत्तर अमरीकी raccoon , उत्तरी raccoon  and colloquially as coon , is a medium-sized mammal native to North America .
The raccoon is the largest of the  procyonid परिवार , having a देह लंबाई of और  a body weight of .
Its grayish coat  ज़्यादातर consists of घना underfur जिससे insulates  against cold weather .
Two of the raccoon 's most  distinctive सुविधाएँ हैं इसके अत्यधिक dexterous सामने पंजे और इसके फेशियल  mask , which are themes in the mythology of several Native American tribes .
raccoons हैं विख्यात लिये उनके प्रज्ञा , साथ अध्ययन  showing that they are able to remember the solution to tasks for up to three years .
The diet of the omnivorous raccoon , which is usually  nocturnal , consists of परिचय 40 % invertebrates , 33 % संयंत्र भोजन  , and 27 % vertebrates .
The original habitats of the raccoon are deciduous and mixed forests , but due to their adaptability they have extended their range to mountainous  क्षेत्रों , तटीय marshes , और शहरी क्षेत्रों , जहाँ कुछ homeowners consider उन्हें to be पीड़कों  .
As a result of escapes and  deliberate introductions in the mid-20th सदी , raccoons हैं अभी  also distributed across the European mainland , the Caucasus region and Japan .
Though  previously विचार to be एकान्त , वहीँ  is now evidence that raccoons engage in gender-specific social behavior .
Related females often share a common area , while unrelated males live together in  समूह of up to चार पशु to maintain उनके स्थितियाँ विरूद्ध विदेशी males दौरान the समागम ऋतु  , and other potential invaders .
Home range sizes vary anywhere from 3 hectares ( 7 acres )  लिये महिलाओं in शहरों to 50 km2 ( 20 sq mi ) लिये males in prairies  .
After a gestation  काल of परिचय 65 दिनों , दो to पाँच यंग , ज्ञात as `` kits  '' , are born in spring .
the kits हैं subsequently उठाया by  their mother until dispersion in late fall .
हालांकि खिलाते raccoons have महरूम ज्ञात to सजीव over 20 सालो  , their average life expectancy in the wild is only 1.8 to 3.1 years .
In many areas , hunting and  vehicular चोट हैं the दो सबसे आम कल्याणकारी of  death .
The 2010 Haiti earthquake was a catastrophic magnitude 7.0 Mw earthquake , with an epicenter near the town of Léogâne ( Ouest  विभाग ) , लगभग वेस्ट of port-au-prince , हैती 's पूंजी  .
The  भूकंप occurred at 16:53  local time ( 21:53 UTC ) on Tuesday , 12 January 2010 .
By 24 January , at least 52 aftershocks  measuring 4.5 or वृहद  had been recorded .
An estimated three  लाख लोगों यहूद प्रभावित by the भूकंप  .
The highest  विश्वसनीय मौत गिनती थी  estimated at 220,000 .
haitian सरकारी estimates  were higher .
the सरकारी of हैती अनुमानित कि 250,000 निवास  and 30,000 commercial buildings had collapsed or were severely damaged .
The  भूकंप caused प्रमुख क्षति in port-au-prince ,  Jacmel and other settlements in the region .
Many notable landmark buildings were  significantly क्षतिग्रस्त or नष्ट , सहित the अध्यक्षीय राजमहल , the नेशनल सभा भवन  , the Port-au-Prince Cathedral , and the main jail .
Among those killed were Archbishop of  port-au-prince जोसेफ सर्ज miot , और विपक्ष  leader Micha Gaillard .
The headquarters of the United  राष्ट्र स्थिरीकरण मिशन in हैती ( minustah ) , स्तिथ in the पूंजी  , collapsed , killing many , including the Mission 's Chief , Hédi Annabi .
Many countries responded to appeals for humanitarian aid , pledging funds and  dispatching बचाव और चिकित्सा टीमों  , engineers and support personnel .
Communication systems , air , land , and sea  हस्तांतरण सुविधाएं , अस्पताल , और विद्युत संजाल था महरूम क्षतिग्रस्त by the भूकंप , जिससे hampered बचाव और सहायता प्रयत्न ; भ्रम  over who was in charge , air traffic congestion , and problems with prioritisation of flights further complicated early relief work .
Port-au-Prince 's morgues were overwhelmed with tens  of हज़ारों of लाशें  .
These had to  be दफ्न in द्रव्यमान क़ब्रों  .
As rescues tailed off ,  आपूर्तियाँ , चिकित्सा परवाह और स्वच्छता  became priorities .
Delays in aid distribution led to  एंग्री appeals इससे सहायता मजदूर और survivors , और लूटने और विरल  violence were observed .
On 22 January the United Nations noted that the emergency  phase of the राहत आपरेशन थी आरेखण to a बंद , और on the following दिन the haitian  government officially called off the search for survivors .
Mister Ed is a fictional talking  घोड़ा , originally appearing in छोटी कहानियां by वाल्टर R. ब्रूक्स , और बाद in an अमरीकी टेलीविज़न हालात कॉमेडी उत्पादित by  Filmways that first aired in syndication from January 5 to July 2 , 1961 , and then on CBS from October 1 , 1961 to February 6 , 1966 .
The stars of the show were Mister Ed , a palomino horse who could `` talk '' , played by gelding Bamboo Harvester and voiced by former Western star Allan Lane ( who went uncredited  लिये the संपूर्ण लंबाई of the श्रेणी ) , और उसके मालिक , an eccentric और enormously klutzy , yet दोस्ताना , वास्तु नामित  Wilbur Post ( Alan Young ) .
Much of the program 's humor stemmed from the fact  मिस्टर ed होता बोलो तभी to wilbur , as खूब as ed  's notoriety as a troublemaker .
Other running jokes  केन्द्रित on wilbur 's अक्षर होने a विशाल  klutz and inadvertently causing harm to himself or others .
According to the show 's producer , Arthur Lubin , Young was chosen as the lead  अक्षर क्युकी he `` बस लगा जैसे the sort of guy a घोड़ा होता बात to '' .
lubin , a dost of mae वेस्ट , scored a तख्तापलट by persuading  the screen icon to guest star in one episode .
In the United States , reruns aired on Nick  at नाइट इससे कूच 3 , 1986 , to फ़रवरी 1 ,  1993 .
Sister station TV Land  भी reran the दिखाएँ इससे 1996–98  and again from 2003-06 .
The series is currently  ब्रॉडकास्ट प्रत्येक morning on इस tv , साथ साथ राजमार्ग  Patrol , and The Patty Duke Show .
It is also currently  ब्रॉडकास्ट on hallmark फिल्म चैनल  .
As of January  1 , 2011 , the  first two seasons of the show are available on Hulu .
The Rapture is  a पद in ईसाई eschatology जिससे refers to the `` होने caught up '' discussed in  1 Thessalonians 4:17 , when the `` dead in Christ '' and `` we who are alive and remain '' will be `` caught up in the clouds '' to meet `` the Lord in the air '' .
The term `` Rapture ''  is प्रयुक्त in at तनिक दो  senses .
In the pre-tribulation view , a group of people will be left behind on earth after  another समूह वस्तुतः पत्ते `` to  meet the Lord in the air . ''
इस is अभी the सबसे आम उपयोग of the पद , विशेषकर  among fundamentalist Christians and in the United States .
The other , older use of the  पद `` rapture '' is बस as a पर्याय लिये the फाइनल क़यामत generally , बगैर a विश्वास  that a group of people is left behind on earth for an extended Tribulation period after the events of 1 Thessalonians 4:17 .
This distinction is important as some types of Christianity never refer to `` the Rapture '' in religious education , but might use the older and  अधिक सामान्य भाव of the शब्द `` rapture '' in referring to कया happens दौरान the फाइनल क़यामत .
There are many views among Christians regarding the  समय of मसीह 's वापसी ( सहित whether it होगा occur in एक इवेंट  or two ) , and various views regarding the destination of the aerial gathering described in 1 Thessalonians 4 .
Denominations such as Roman Catholics , Orthodox Christians , Lutheran Christians , and Reformed  ईसाइयों मानना in a rapture तभी in the भाव of a सामान्य फाइनल क़यामत , जब मसीह रिटर्न a सिंगल समय  .
They do not believe that a group of people is left behind on earth for an extended  tribulation काल बाद the कार्यक्रम of 1 thessalonians 4:17  .
Pre-tribulation rapture theology was developed in the 1830s by John Nelson Darby and the Plymouth  brethren , और popularized in the संयुक्त राज्य in the जल्दी  20th century by the wide circulation of the Scofield Reference Bible .
Kris Nathan  humphries ( born फ़रवरी 6 , 1985 ) is an अमरीकी पेशेवर  basketball player with the Brooklyn Nets .
The  philistine शहरों of गाजा , ashdod , ashkelon  , Ekron , and Gath
the philistines ( , , , or ; , plištim ) , pleshet or peleset , यहूद a  people who as part of the Sea Peoples appeared in the southern coastal area of Canaan at the beginning of the Iron Age ( circa 1175 BC ) , most probably from the Aegean region .
According to the Bible , they ruled the five  city-states ( the `` philistine pentapolis '' ) of गाजा , ashkelon , ashdod , ekron और gath , इससे wadi गाजा in the दक्षिण to  the Yarqon River in the north , but with no fixed border to the east .
The Bible paints them as the  किंगडम of इसराईल 's सबसे  dangerous enemy .
Originating somewhere in the  ईजियन , उनके जनसांख्यिकी थी around 25,000 in the 12th सदी bc ,  rising to a peak of 30,000 in the 11th century BC , of which the Aegean element was not more than half the total , and perhaps much less .
Nothing is known for certain about the original language or languages of the  philistines , however वे यहूद नहीं भाग of the सामीती canaanite  population .
There is some limited evidence in favour of the assumption  कि the philistines यहूद indo-european-speakers either इससे यूनानियों and/or luwian  speakers from the coast of Asia Minor .
philistine-related शब्द मिला in the बाइबल हैं नहीं सामीती  , and can in some cases , with reservations , be traced back to Proto-Indo-European roots .
By the beginning of  the 1st मिलेनियम bce वे था अपनाया the  general Canaanite language of the region .
The  हथियारबंद सेवाएं वोकेशनल योग्यता बैटरी ( asvab ) is a अनेक चुनाव परीक्षण , administered by the संयुक्त राज्य  Military Entrance Processing Command , used to determine qualification for enlistment in the United States armed forces .
It is often offered to American high school students  जब वे हैं in the 10th , 11th और 12th ग्रेड , हालांकि anyone योग्य  for enlistment may take it .
Although the test is  administered by the सैन्य , it is नहीं ( और never रै महरूम ) a आवश्यकता कि a test-taker साथ a qualifying स्कोर enlist in the हथियारबंद  forces .
In financial  हिसाब , a संतुलन चादर or बयान of वित्तीय स्थिति is a सारांश of the वित्तीय balances of a एकमात्र बंदोबस्त , a  business partnership , a corporation or other business organization , such as an LLC or an LLP .
Assets ,  देनदारी और स्वामित्व इक्विटी हैं सूचीबद्ध as of  a specific date , such as the end of its financial year .
A balance sheet is often  वर्णित as a `` स्नैपशॉट of a कम्पनी  's financial condition '' .
Of the four basic financial  कथन , the संतुलन चादर is the तभी बयान जिससे applies to a सिंगल  point in time of a business ' calendar year .
A standard  कम्पनी संतुलन चादर रै तीन भाग : एसेट  , liabilities and ownership equity .
The main categories  of एसेट हैं प्रायः सूचीबद्ध पहला , और typically  in order of liquidity .
Assets are  followed by the देनदारी  .
The difference between the assets and the liabilities is known as equity or the net assets or the net worth or  पूंजी of the कम्पनी और according to the हिसाब समीकरण , जाल लायक जरूर बराबर एसेट  minus liabilities .
Another way to look at  the वही समीकरण is कि एसेट बराबरी देनदारी  plus owner 's equity .
Looking at the equation in this  रास्ता shows कैसा एसेट यहूद financed : either by उधार धन ( देयता  ) or by using the owner 's money ( owner 's equity ) .
Balance  चादरें हैं प्रायः प्रस्तुत साथ एसेट in एक खण्ड और  liabilities and net worth in the other section with the two sections `` balancing . ''
A business operating entirely in cash  can माप इसके profits by withdrawing the संपूर्ण बैंको संतुलन  at the end of the period , plus any cash in hand .
however , अनेक व्यवसायों हैं नहीं सशुल्क  immediately ; they build up inventories of goods and they acquire buildings and equipment .
In other words : businesses have  एसेट और so वे can नहीं , भी if वे want to , तत्काल  turn these into cash at the end of each period .
Often , these businesses owe money to suppliers and to tax authorities , and the proprietors do not withdraw  सब उनके असली पूंजी और profits at the समाप्त  of each period .
In other words  व्यवसायों भी have देनदारी  .
.17 hornady मैग्नम rimfire , commonly ज्ञात as the .17 hmr , is  a rimfire rifle cartridge developed by the ammunition company Hornady in 2002 .
It descended from the .22 Magnum by necking down the .22 Magnum case to take a .17  कैलिबर ( 4.5 mm ) गोली , और it is अधिक costly to shoot than परंपरागत .22 कैलिबर rimfire कारतूस  .
commonly loaded साथ a 17 अनाज ( 1.1 g ) गोली  , it can deliver muzzle velocities in excess of 2550 ft/s ( 775 m/s ) .
The Schaumburg Flyers were a professional  बेसबॉल टोली आधारित in schaumburg , इलिनोइस , in  the United States .
The Flyers were to be a charter  सदस्य of the उत्तर अमरीकी लीग , जिससे is नहीं संबद्ध साथ प्रमुख लीग  Baseball , however , the team folded in March 2011 , before they began play in the NAL .
From the 1999 season to the 2010 season , the  flyers निभाई उनके घर खेल at alexian फ़ील्ड  , near the Elgin O'Hare Expressway .
The team formerly played in Thunder Bay , Ontario , where  वे यहूद ज्ञात as the थंडर खाड़ी whiskey jacks  .
the टोली थी originally a सदस्य  of the Northern League from 1993 to 2010 .
On July 27 , 2009 , the Flyers played host  to बैटल of the लिंगों ii , जिससे pitted the flyers विरूद्ध the नेशनल प्रो fastpitch सॉफ्टबॉल  Champions , the Chicago Bandits .
Played by official  सॉफ्टबॉल नियम , the खेल थी देखी by  an overflow record crowd of 8,918 , and was won by the Bandits 4-2 .
In 1999 , the  flyers नियुक्त उनके पहला मैनेजर  , Ron Kittle .
Kittle is best known for his playing days with the Chicago White  sox , और पूर्व शिकागो शावक और श्वेत sox खिलाड़ी ग्रेग  Hibbard was the pitching coach .
दौरान the जल्दी सालो of the मताधिकार , kittle किया a श्रेणी of tv commercials to प्रचार  the team , using the gimmick `` Ma Kittle . '' where he played both himself and his `` Ma . ''
The ads were successful at sparking some initial interest in the  टोली as the flyers hoped to चोरी दूर प्रशंसक इससे the  nearby Kane County Cougars .
The ad mimicked the highly successful Converse ads where Larry Johnson starred  as दोनो खुद और `` gramama . ''
At the end of  the 2001 ऋतु , however , kittle resigned इससे उसके managerial स्थिति  , and Jim Boynewicz was hired to replace him .
In 2004 , the Flyers made it to  the उत्तरी लीग चैंपियनशिप श्रेणी विरूद्ध the  St. Paul Saints .
Despite  अग्रणी the five-game श्रेणी 2-1 , schaumburg  eventually lost the series .
In Game 5 , Flyers  राहत पिचर lyle prempas अनुमत a खेल जीतना  grand slam by St. Paul infielder Marc Mirizzi in the ninth inning .
The  flyers appeared in the उत्तरी लीग  Playoffs four times ( 1999 , 2003 , 2004 , 2006 ) but never won the championship .
Some famous players who played for the Flyers  यहूद पूर्व ओकलैंड a 's outfielder ozzie canseco और  former Chicago Cubs outfielder Dwight Smith .
Rachel Hannah  वाइज़ ( / वाइस / ; born 7 कूच 1970  ) is an English film and theatre actress and former fashion model .
Weisz began her acting career at Trinity Hall ,  कैम्ब्रिज in the जल्दी 1990s , तब प्रारंभ working in टेलीविज़न , appearing in इंस्पेक्टर मोर्स ,  the British mini-series Scarlet and Black , and the television film Advocates II .
She made her film début in the film Death Machine ( 1994 ) , but her breakthrough role came in the film  कड़ी प्रतिक्रिया ( 1996 ) , अग्रणी to a high-profile भूमिका as एवलिन carnahan-o'connell in the films the मम्मी ( 1999 ) और the मम्मी रिटर्न (  2001 ) .
Other notable films featuring Weisz are Enemy at the Gates , About a Boy ,  constantine , the फव्वारा और the निरंतर माली , लिये जिससे वो प्राप्त an अकादमी पुरस्कार , a सुनहरी ग्लोब और  a Screen Actors ' Guild award for her supporting role as Tessa Quayle .
She has been labelled an `` English rose  '' चूंकि उसके नाबालिग भूमिका in चोरी सौंदर्य (  1996 ) .
Weisz also  works in थिएटर  .
Her stage  भेदन थी the 1994 पुनरुद्धार of noël कायर  's play Design for Living , which earned her the London Critics Circle Award for the most promising newcomer .
Weisz 's  प्रदर्शन भी शामिल the 1999 donmar गोदाम उत्पादन of टेनेसी विलियम्स ' एकाएक  , Last Summer , and their 2009 revival of A Streetcar Named Desire .
Her portrayal of Blanche DuBois in  the latter खेल अर्जित उसके  the Critics ' Circle Theatre Award for Best Actress .
She has recently played Evanora in  oz the ग्रेट और शक्तिशाली .
The American Civil War ( ACW ) , also known as the War between the States or simply the Civil War (  देखिए नामकरण ) , थी a सिविल युद्ध लड़ा इससे 1861 to 1865 between the संयुक्त राज्य ( the `` संघ '' or the `` उत्तर '' ) और अनेक दक्षिणी स्लेव राज्य कि घोषित उनके secession और formed the  Confederate States of America ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ) .
The war had its  उत्पत्ति in the समस्या of गुलामी , विशेषकर the एक्सटेंशन of  slavery into the western territories .
Foreign  शक्तियां किया नहीं intervene  .
After four years of bloody combat that left over 600,000 soldiers dead and destroyed much of the  दक्षिण 's अवसंरचना , the confederacy collapsed , गुलामी थी abolished , और the मुश्किल पुनर्निर्माण प्रक्रम of restoring नेशनल  unity and guaranteeing rights to the freed slaves began .
In the 1860 presidential election , Republicans , led by Abraham Lincoln ,  opposed expanding गुलामी into संयुक्त राज्य  ' territories .
Lincoln won , but before his  उद्घाटन on कूच 4 , 1861 , सात cotton-based स्लेव राज्य  formed the Confederacy .
Outgoing Democratic President James Buchanan and the  आवक republicans अस्वीकृत secession as  illegal .
lincoln 's inaugural पता घोषित  his administration would not initiate civil war .
Eight remaining slave states  जारी to अस्वीकृत काल्स लिये secession  .
Confederate forces seized  numerous संघीय दुर्गों भीतर territory claimed by  the Confederacy .
A Peace  सम्मेलन विफल to ढूँढें a सुलह  , and both sides prepared for war .
The  confederates assumed कि यूरोपीय देशों यहूद so निर्भर  on `` King Cotton `` that they would intervene ; none did and none recognized the new Confederate States of America .
Hostilities began on April 12 , 1861 , when Confederate forces  fired upon फोर्ट sumter , a कुंजी फोर्ट आयोजित by संघ सैनिकों  in South Carolina .
Lincoln called for each state to provide troops to retake the  फोर्ट ; नतीजतन , चार अधिक स्लेव राज्य joined the confederacy  , bringing their total to eleven .
The Union soon controlled the border states and established a  नवल नाकेबंदी कि अबोध the दक्षिणी अर्थव्यवस्था  .
The Eastern Theater  थी inconclusive  in 1861–62 .
The autumn 1862 Confederate campaign  into मेरीलैंड ( a संघ राज्य ) ended साथ confederate रिट्रीट at the बैटल of antietam  , dissuading British intervention .
Lincoln issued the  emancipation उदघोषणा , जिससे बना समाप्ति  slavery a war goal .
To the west , by summer 1862 the Union destroyed the Confederate river navy , then much of  उनके पश्चिमी सेना , और the संघ at vicksburg विभाजित the confederacy  in two at the Mississippi River .
In 1863 ,  रॉबर्ट E. ली 's confederate incursion उत्तर ended  at the Battle of Gettysburg .
Western successes  led to ulysses S. ग्रान्ट कमांड of सब  Union armies in 1864 .
In  the पश्चिमी थिएटर , विलियम T. शरमन drove ईस्ट to कैप्चर अटलांटा और marched  to the sea , destroying Confederate infrastructure along the way .
The Union marshaled the resources and manpower to attack the Confederacy from all directions ,  और could afford to लड़ो लड़ाइयों of अपघर्षण through the overland अभियान towards रिचमंड , the confederate पूंजी  .
The  defending confederate फौज विफल , अग्रणी to ली 's आत्मसमर्पण  to Grant at Appomattox Court House on April 9 , 1865 .
The American Civil War was one of the earliest  सच्चा औद्योगिक युद्धों  .
Railroads , the telegraph , steamships ,  और mass-produced हथियार यहूद employed extensively  .
The mobilization of civilian factories , mines , shipyards ,  बैंको , परिवहन और खाना आपूर्तियाँ सब foreshadowed संसार युद्ध  I .
It remains the deadliest war in  अमरीकी इतिहास , resulting in the मौतों of an अनुमानित 750,000 सैनिको और an undetermined  number of civilian casualties .
Historian John Huddleston  estimates the मौत टोल at टेन प्रतिशत of सब उत्तरी males 20–45 सालो बूढ़ा  , and 30 percent of all Southern white males aged 18–40 .
Potato bread is a form of bread in which  आलू replaces a portion of the नियमित गेहूं आटा  .
It is cooked  in a किस्में of  methods , including by baking it on a hot griddle or pan , or in an oven .
It may  be leavened or unleavened , और may have  a variety of other ingredients baked into it .
The ratio of potato to wheat flour varies significantly from recipe to recipe , with  कुछ व्यंजनों having a बहुमत of आलू , और अन्य having a बहुमत of गेहूं  flour .
Some  व्यंजनों कॉल लिये mashed आलू , साथ अन्य  calling for dehydrated potato flakes .
It is available as a commercial product in many countries , with  समान विसंगतियाँ in संघटक , कुकिंग विधि  , and other variables .
The Pacific Time Zone  observes मानक समय by subtracting  eight hours from Coordinated Universal Time ( ) .
The clock time in this zone is based on  the औसत सौर समय of the 120th मध्याह्न वेस्ट of the ग्रीनविच  Observatory .
During  daylight छायांकन समय , इसके समय ऑफसेट is  .
in the संयुक्त राज्य और कनाडा , इस  time zone is generically called Pacific Time ( PT ) .
Specifically , it is Pacific  मानक समय ( pst ) जब observing मानक समय ( शीत ) , और प्रशांत  Daylight Time ( PDT ) when observing daylight saving time ( summer ) .
Most of Canada uses  daylight छायांकन समय  .
In Mexico the UTC−8 time zone is known as the Northwest  मण्डल , जिससे is synchronized साथ the  U.S. PDT daylight saving schedule .
The largest  नगर in the प्रशांत समय मण्डल is लॉस एंजिल्स in कैलिफ़ोर्निया इससे यूएसए ;  the city 's metropolitan area is the largest in the zone .
the मण्डल is एक घंटा ahead of the अलास्का समय मण्डल  , one hour behind the Mountain Time Zone and three hours behind the Eastern Time Zone .
Stereo 8 , commonly known as the eight-track  कार्ट्रिज , eight-track टेप , or बस eight-track , is a चुम्बकीय टेप ध्वनि  recording technology .
It was popular in the United  राज्य इससे the mid-1960s through to the जल्दी 1980s , लकिन थी अपेक्षाकृत अनजान  in many European countries .
It was , however , very popular in  the संयुक्त किंगडम दौरान इस  period .
स्टीरियो 8 थी निर्मित in 1964 by a consortium led by विधेयक lear of  Lear Jet Corporation , along with Ampex , Ford Motor Company , General Motors , Motorola , and RCA Victor Records ( RCA ) .
it थी a further विकास of the समान stereo-pak four-track  cartridge created by Earl `` Madman '' Muntz .
A later quadraphonic  संस्करण of the स्वरूप थी घोषित by आरसीए in अप्रैल 1970 और पहला  known as Quad-8 , then later changed to just Q8 .
Ramesses II ( 1303 BC – July or August 1213 BC ; Egyptian : , alternatively transcribed as Rameses  और ramses or ) , referred to as रामेसेस the ग्रेट , थी the तीसरा मिश्र pharaoh ( reigned 1279 bc – 1213 bc ) of the उन्नीसवीं  dynasty .
He is often regarded as the greatest , most  मनाये , और सबसे शक्तिशाली pharaoh of the मिश्र साम्राज्य  .
His successors and later Egyptians called him  the `` ग्रेट पूर्वज . ''
Ramesses II  led अनेक सैन्य रिझाने into the levant  , re-asserting Egyptian control over Canaan .
He also led expeditions to  the दक्षिण , into नुबिया , commemorated  in inscriptions at Beit el-Wali and Gerf Hussein .
At age fourteen , Ramesses was appointed  प्रिंस रीजेंट by उसके पिता  Seti I .
He is believed to have taken the throne in his late  किशोर और is ज्ञात to have शासित मिश्र इससे 1279 bc to 1213 bc लिये 66 सालो और 2 महीने , according to दोनो manetho  and Egypt 's contemporary historical records .
He was once said to have lived to be 99  सालो बूढ़ा , लकिन it is अधिक संभावित कि he died in  his 90th or 91st year .
If he became Pharaoh in 1279  bc as सबसे egyptologists आज मानना , he होता have assumed the सिंहासन  on May 31 , 1279 BC , based on his known accession date of III Shemu day 27 .
Ramesses II celebrated an unprecedented 14 sed festivals (  the पहला आयोजित बाद तीस सालो of a pharaoh 's शासनकाल , और तब प्रत्येक तीन सालो ) दौरान उसके reign—more  than any other pharaoh .
On his death , he was buried in a tomb in the Valley of the Kings ; his body was later moved to a  royal संचय जहाँ it थी खोजा in 1881 , और is अभी on प्रदर्शक  in the Cairo Museum .
The early  भाग of उसके शासनकाल थी केन्द्रित on भवन  cities , temples and monuments .
He established the city of  pi-ramesses in the nile डेल्टा as उसके नई पूंजी  and main base for his campaigns in Syria .
This  नगर थी निर्मित on the remains of the नगर of avaris , the पूंजी  of the Hyksos when they took over , and was the location of the main Temple of Set .
He is also known as Ozymandias in the  यूनानी स्त्रोत , इससे a लिप्यन्तरण into यूनानी of  a part of Ramesses 's throne name , , `` Ra 's mighty truth , chosen of Ra '' .
The Texas Rangers are a  पेशेवर बेसबॉल टोली स्तिथ in  the Dallas-Fort Worth Metroplex , based in Arlington , Texas .
The Rangers franchise is  फिलहाल a सदस्य of the पश्चिमी प्रभाग  of Major League Baseball 's American League .
Since , the  रेंजरों have निभाई in रेंजरों ballpark in आर्लिंगटन  in Arlington , Texas .
The team 's name is borrowed from the famous law  प्रवर्तन एजेंसी of the वही नाम .
The franchise was established in 1961 by the name of the Washington Senators , an expansion team awarded to Washington , D.C. , after the city 's first  ballclub , the असली वॉशिंगटन सीनेटरों , स्थानांतरित to मिनेसोटा और  became the Twins .
बाद the ऋतु , the नई सीनेटरों स्थानांतरित to आर्लिंगटन ,  Texas , and debuted as the Rangers the following spring .
The Texas Rangers Baseball Club has made six appearances in the MLB postseason , all  following प्रभाग championships , in 1996 , 1998 , 1999  , 2010 , 2011 and 2012 .
In 2010 , the Rangers advanced past the  प्रभाग श्रेणी लिये the पहला समय , defeating the tampa खाड़ी  Rays .
टेक्सास तब brought घर उनके पहला अमरीकी लीग  Pennant after beating the New York Yankees in six games .
In the 2010 World Series , the franchise 's first , the Rangers fell to  the सैन फ्रांसिस्को दिग्गज in पाँच  games .
Their lone victory made them the first Texas team to win a  संसार श्रेणी खेल , the ह्यूस्टन एस्टर्स having महरूम swept in उनके 2005 संसार श्रेणी रूप  .
They repeated as American League champions the following year , then lost the 2011 World  श्रेणी to the st. लुई कार्डिनल्स in सात  games .
Gaius Julius Caesar ( ,  जुलाई 100 bc – 15 कूच 44 bc ) थी a रोमन सामान्य , statesman , कौंसुल  and notable author of Latin prose .
He played a critical role in the events that led  to the निधन of the रोमन गणतंत्र और the वृद्धि  of the Roman Empire .
In  60 bc , सीज़र , crassus और pompey formed  a political alliance that was to dominate Roman politics for several years .
Their attempts to  amass शक्ति through populist tactics यहूद opposed by the रूढ़िवादी elite भीतर the रोमन सीनेट  , among them Cato the Younger with the frequent support of Cicero .
Caesar 's conquest of  gaul , समाप्त by 51 bc , विस्तारित रोम 's territory  to the English Channel and the Rhine .
Caesar became the first Roman general to cross both  जब he निर्मित a सेतु आरपार the राइन और conducted  the first invasion of Britain .
These achievements granted him unmatched military power and threatened to eclipse the standing of Pompey , who had  realigned खुद साथ the सीनेट बाद the मौत of crassus in 53 bc  .
With the Gallic Wars concluded , the Senate ordered  सीज़र to lay bas उसके सैन्य  command and return to Rome .
Caesar refused , and marked his defiance in 49 BC by crossing the Rubicon  साथ a लीजन , leaving उसके प्रांत और illegally प्रवेश रोमन territory  under arms .
Civil war  resulted , इससे जिससे he उभरा as the unrivaled  leader of Rome .
After assuming control of  सरकारी , सीज़र began a कार्यक्रम of सोशल और सरकारी  reforms , including the creation of the Julian calendar .
He centralised the bureaucracy of the Republic  और थी आखिरकार proclaimed `` तानाशाह in perpetuity '' .
But the underlying political conflicts had not been resolved , and on the Ides of March ( 15 March  ) 44 bc , सीज़र थी assassinated by a समूह of सीनेटरों led by मार्कस junius  Brutus .
A new series of civil  युद्धों broke आउट , और the संवैधानिक सरकारी of the गणतंत्र  was never restored .
Caesar 's adopted heir Octavian , later  ज्ञात as augustus , रोज़ to एकमात्र शक्ति , और the era of the रोमन साम्राज्य  began .
Much of Caesar 's life is known from his own accounts of his military campaigns , and from  अन्य समकालीन स्त्रोत , मुख्यतः the अक्षर और भाषणों  of Cicero and the historical writings of Sallust .
The later biographies of Caesar by  suetonius और प्लूटार्क हैं भी प्रमुख  sources .
Caesar is deemed to be  एक of the महानतम सैन्य कमांडरों  of history .
भाषाई मैप of सीरियल  , Cameroon , and Benin .
Sign in English , outside  the विश्वविद्यालयों of लागोस
There are hundreds of languages  बोला in सीरियल  .
The major languages are Yoruba , Hausa , Igbo  , ईदो , fulfulde , कनूरी  , and Ibibio .
The official language of Nigeria , English , the former  औपनिवेशिक भाषा , थी चुनी to सुकर the सांस्कृतिक और भाषाई  unity of the country .
English , however , remains an exclusive preserve of  the देश 's शहरी elite , और is नहीं widely बोला in ग्रामीण क्षेत्रों , जिससे comprise  three quarters of the countries population .
Nigeria 's linguistic diversity is a microcosm of Africa as a whole ,  encompassing तीन प्रमुख अफ़्रीकी भाषाएं परिवारों : afroasiatic , nilo-saharan , और niger–congo  .
Nigeria also has several as-yet  unclassified भाषाएं , ऐसे as cen tuum , जिससे may represent a relic of an भी वृहद  diversity prior to the spread of the current language families .
Daucus carota ( common names include wild carrot , ( UK ) bird  's घोंसला , बिशप 's फीता , और महारानी ऐनी 's फीता ( उत्तर अमेरिका ) ) is a flowering संयंत्र in the परिवार apiaceae , देशी  to temperate regions of Europe , southwest Asia and naturalised to North America and Australia .
domesticated गाजर हैं cultivars of a subspecies  , Daucus carota subsp . sativus .
In the United States , the title  of संघीय न्यायधीश प्रायः अर्थात् a न्यायधीश नियुक्त by the अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य और पुष्टि by the संयुक्त राज्य सीनेट pursuant to the नियुक्ति  Clause in Article II of the United States Constitution .
In addition to the Supreme Court of the  संयुक्त राज्य , जिनकी अस्तित्व और कुछ पहलुओं of जिनकी क्षेत्राधिकार हैं परे the संवैधानिक शक्ति of कॉंग्रेस to alter , अधिनियमों of कॉंग्रेस have स्थापित 13 न्यायालयों of appeals ( भी पुकारा `` सर्किट न्यायालयों '' ) साथ appellate क्षेत्राधिकार over अलग  regions of the United States , and 94 United States district courts .
Every judge appointed to such a court may be categorized as a federal judge ; such positions include the Chief Justice and Associate  justices of the परम् अदालत , सर्किट न्यायाधीशों of the न्यायालयों of appeals , और ज़िला न्यायाधीशों of the संयुक्त राज्य ज़िला न्यायालयों  .
All of these judges described thus far are  referred to sometimes as `` आलेख iii न्यायाधीशों '' क्युकी वे कसरत  the judicial power vested in the judicial branch of the federal government by Article III of the U.S. Constitution .
In addition , judges of the Court  of अंतरराष्ट्रीय व्यापार कसरत न्यायिक शक्ति pursuant  to Article III .
Other judges serving in the federal courts , including magistrate judges and  दिवालियापन न्यायाधीशों , हैं भी sometimes referred to as `` संघीय न्यायाधीशों '' ; however , वे हैं neither नियुक्त by the अध्यक्ष nor पुष्टि by the सीनेट , और  their power derives from Article I instead .
देखिए आलेख  I and Article III tribunals .
Nelly  किम फ़र्टाडो ( born दिसम्बर 2 , 1978 ) is a कनाडाई  singer , songwriter and actress .
She has sold 20 million albums worldwide and  अधिक 20 लाख singles , bringing उसके कुल बिक्री to over  40 million records around the world .
Furtado first gained fame with her  डेब्यू एल्बम , वाह  , Nelly !
, which spawned two  कामयाब singles , `` i 'm जैसे a बर्ड `` और `` फेरे बंद the लाइट  `` . ``
I 'm Like A Bird '' won a 2001 Juno Award  लिये सिंगल of the साल और a 2002 ग्रैमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन मादा  Pop Vocal Performance .
In 2003 , Furtado released Folklore ,  जिससे उत्पादित तीन अंतरराष्ट्रीय singles— `` powerless  ( Say What You Want ) `` , `` Try `` and `` Força `` .
Three  सालो बाद वो released  Loose , a worldwide commercial success .
The album spawned four number-one hits : `` Promiscuous `` ,  `` maneater `` , `` कह it सही `` और `` सब शुभ बाते ( आइये  to an End ) `` .
After a three-year break , she released her first full-length Spanish album , Mi Plan , and  फ़र्टाडो प्राप्त a लैटिन ग्रैमी लिये बेहतरीन मादा पॉप गायन  Album .
In 2012 , Furtado 's  चौथी english-language स्टुडियो एल्बम ,  The Spirit Indestructible was released .
Furtado 's work has  अर्जित उसके numerous पुरस्कार और accolades , सहित 2 ग्रैमी पुरस्कार  , 10 Juno Awards , 3 MuchMusic Video Awards and a star on Canada 's Walk of Fame .
जीव of the रात्रि is  the tenth studio album by Kiss .
It is the band 's last album for Casablanca  रिकॉर्ड , the तभी लेबल the समूह था कभी अंकित लिये at  that point .
The album was dedicated to the memory of Casablanca founder and early Kiss supporter Neil Bogart , who had died  of कर्कट दौरान the रिकॉर्डिंग सत्र  .
It is also the band 's last album recorded with Ace Frehley credited as an official  सदस्य ( जबतक 1998 's psycho सर्कस ) , और इसके पहला एल्बम साथ vinnie विंसेंट as the initially uncredited सीसे guitarist ( विंसेंट होता बाद be  credited , but not featured pictorially on the cover , of 1985 's reissue of the album ) .
टच is a निर्णायक अर्थात् of receiving  information .
This photo shows tactile  markings identifying सीढ़ियाँ लिये visually  impaired people .
The somatosensory system is a diverse sensory system comprising the receptors and processing centres to  उपज the संवेदी modalities ऐसे as टच , तापमान , proprioception ( देह स्थिति ) , और nociception  ( pain ) .
The sensory receptors cover the skin and epithelia , skeletal  मांसपेशियां , हड्डियों और joints , आतंरिक अंगों , और the cardiovascular  system .
While touch  is माना एक of the पाँच परंपरागत  senses , the impression of touch is formed from several modalities .
In medicine , the colloquial term `` touch '' is  प्रायः replaced साथ `` दैहिक होश '' to बेहतर प्रतिबिंबित the किस्में  of mechanisms involved .
दैहिक होश हैं sometimes referred to as somesthetic होश , साथ the समझना  that somesthesis includes touch , proprioception and ( depending on usage ) also haptic perception .
The system reacts to diverse stimuli using  अलग receptors : thermoreceptors , nociceptors , mechanoreceptors और chemoreceptors  .
Transmission of information from the receptors passes via sensory nerves through  tracts in the स्पाइनल cord और into  the brain .
Processing primarily occurs in the  प्राथमिक somatosensory क्षेत्रफल in the parietal पालि of the दिमागी  cortex .
The  cortical homunculus थी  devised by Wilder Penfield .
At its simplest , the system works when activity in a sensory neuron  is triggered by a विशिष्ट stimulus ऐसे as ऊष्मा ; इस सिग्नल आखिरकार गुजरता to an क्षेत्रफल in the दिमाग uniquely attributed to कि  area on the body—this allows the processed stimulus to be felt at the correct location .
The point-to-point mapping of the body surfaces in the brain is  पुकारा a homunculus और is अनिवार्य in the सृष्टि of a देह  image .
This brain-surface ( `` cortical  '' ) मैप is नहीं अपरिवर्तनीय  , however .
Dramatic shifts can  occur in जवाब to स्ट्रोक  or injury .
magnolia is a विशाल genus of परिचय 210 flowering संयंत्र प्रजाति  in the subfamily Magnolioideae of the family Magnoliaceae .
It is named after French  वनस्पतिशास्त्री पियरे magnol  .
magnolia is an प्राचीन  genus .
Appearing  पहले मधुमक्खियों किया , the पुष्प विकसित to प्रोत्साहित परागण  by beetles .
To avoid damage  इससे pollinating भृंग , the carpels of magnolia पुष्प  are extremely tough .
Fossilised specimens of Magnolia acuminata have been found dating to 20 million years ago , and of  पौधे identifiably belonging to the magnoliaceae डेटिंग to 95 लाख  years ago .
Another aspect of  magnolias कि is माना to represent an ancestral राज्य is कि the पुष्प कली is enclosed in a bract बल्कि than in  sepals ; the perianth parts are undifferentiated and called tepals rather than distinct sepals and petals .
Magnolia shares the tepal characteristic with several other flowering plants near the base of the  flowering संयंत्र lineage ऐसे as amborella और nymphaea ( as खूब as साथ अनेक अधिक recently निकला पौधे  such as Lilium ) .
The natural range of Magnolia species is a  disjunct वितरण , साथ a प्रमुख केन्द्र in ईस्ट और southeast एशिया और a द्वितीयक केन्द्र in पूर्वी उत्तर अमेरिका , सेंट्रल अमेरिका , the  West Indies , and some species in South America .
अंगूठा
`` White Christmas ''  is an इरविंग बर्लिन सोंग reminiscing परिचय an old-fashioned  Christmas setting .
According to the Guinness Book  of संसार रिकॉर्ड , the संस्करण सुंग by bing crosby is the best-selling सिंगल of सब समय , साथ  estimated sales in excess of 50 million copies worldwide .
Accounts  vary as to जब और जहाँ  Berlin wrote the song .
One story is that he wrote  it in 1940 , in गरम la quinta , कैलिफ़ोर्निया , जबकि रहकर  at the La Quinta Hotel , a frequent Hollywood retreat also favored by writer-producer Frank Capra , although the Arizona Biltmore also claims the song was written there .
He often stayed up all night  लिखने — he बताई उसके सचिव , ``  Grab your pen and take down this song .
I just wrote the best song I 've ever written — heck , I just wrote  the बेहतरीन सोंग कि anybody 's कभी लिखा  ! ''
Cross-country skiing ( or XC skiing )  is a रूप of स्की touring in जिससे भागीदार propel themselves आरपार  snow-covered terrain using skis and poles .
The activity is popular in many  स्थान साथ विशाल snowfields , primarily  Northern Europe , Canada , and Alaska .
Cross-country skiing is part of the Nordic skiing sport family , which includes ski jumping , Nordic combined ( cross-country skiing  और स्की कूद ) , biathlon ( स्कीइंग और राइफल marksmanship ) और ski-orienteering ( जिससे शामिल मैप नेविगेशन  along snow trails and tracks ) .
Cross-country skiing is the modern style of skiing that most  resembles प्रागैतिहासिक स्कीइंग , विशेषकर जब किया in the backcountry  .
It is  भी सम्बन्धित  to Telemark skiing .
A use tax in United States is  पूरक to बिक्री कर जिससे अर्थात् , if तुम ख़रीदे a taxable product/services बगैर paying कोई बिक्री कर  to vendor , you owe use tax .
You must self assess use tax and  अदा it सीधे to the राज्य जहाँ the उत्पाद  were consumed or services were rendered .
Use tax typically is a tax on consumption but if you  ख़रीदे an मद ( बगैर paying बिक्री कर ) और स्टोर it in अपना गोदाम initially  , use tax applies to that location where goods were stored .
Later on when the final  खपत takes प्लेस at कुछ अन्य स्थान , तुम हैं जरूरी to अदा the अवकल  of tax rate to the jurisdiction of ultimate place of consumption .
This really means that you do n't have  to अदा दोनो बिक्री कर as खूब as उपयोग  Tax on one transaction .
It is  तभी एक or the अन्य कि तुम हैं जरूरी  to pay on purchase of taxable products/services .
If vendor does n't charge any Sales tax on its invoice then it  is the दायित्व of the खरीदार to स्वः assess उपयोग कर और अदा it to the उचित  Jurisdication .
Use Tax is generally charged at the same tax rate of Sales Tax but in some states the  कर रेट is अलग  .
Use tax is also termed as ``  खपत कर '' or `` उपभोक्ता  Use Tax '' .
A use tax  is a प्रकार of excise कर levied in the संयुक्त  States by numerous state governments .
It is assessed upon tangible personal property purchased by a  निवासी of the assessing राज्य लिये उपयोग , भंडार , or खपत in कि राज्य ( नहीं लिये पुनर्विक्रय ) , regardless  of where the purchase took place .
If a resident of a state makes a purchase  भीतर उसके घर राज्य , पूरा बिक्री कर  is paid at the time of the transaction .
The use tax applies when a resident of the  assessing राज्य purchases an मद कि is नहीं विषय to उसके घर राज्य 's  sales tax .
Usually , this is due to out-of-state purchases , as  खूब as ordering वस्तुएं through the मेल , by फोन , or over the अंतरजाल इससे अन्य  states .
The use tax is typically assessed at the same  रेट as the बिक्री कर कि होता have महरूम owed ( if कोई ) था  the same goods been purchased in the state of residence .
For example , a resident of Massachusetts , with a 6.25 % `` sales and use tax '' on certain goods and services ,  purchases non-exempt goods or सेवाएं in नई हैम्पशायर लिये उपयोग , भंडार  or other consumption in Massachusetts .
Under New Hampshire law  , the नई हैम्पशायर विक्रेता collects no बिक्री कर on the goods , लकिन the मैसाचुसेट्स purchaser/user जरूर स्टिल अदा 6.25 % of the बिक्री  price directly to the Department of Revenue in Massachusetts as a use tax .
If the same goods are purchased in a US state that does collect sales tax for such goods at time of purchase , whatever taxes were paid by the purchaser to that state can be  deducted ( as a कर क्रेडिट ) इससे the 6.25 % owed लिये subsequent उपयोग , भंडार or खपत  in Massachusetts .
With few exceptions , no state 's vendors  होगा चार्ज the देशी राज्य 's बिक्री कर on goods shipped आउट of राज्य , अर्थ सब goods  ordered from out-of-state are essentially free of sales tax .
The purchaser is therefore required to declare and  अदा the उपयोग कर to उसके घर राज्य on  these ordered goods .
The assessing jurisdiction may  मेक the उपयोग कर देय annually , लकिन कुछ राज्य आवश्यकता  a monthly payment .
For example , where a Vermont resident has not paid at least 6 % sales tax on property brought in  लिये उपयोग in the राज्य , वर्मांट विधि requires दाखिल a कर वापसी ( रूप su-452 और भुगतान ) by the 20th दिन of the माह  following non-exempt purchases to avoid a $ 50 late fee , a 5 % penalty per month , to a maximum of 25 % , plus statutory interest on the unpaid tax and penalties .
Typical exemptions include purchases by charitable non-profit organizations or governmental agencies , purchases for resale in commerce , and purchases via `` casual sales  '' by individuals नहीं in the ordinary कोर्स of  business .
Also note that there are thousands of tax jurisdictions in the U.S. and many have ever-changing  सूचियाँ of विशिष्ट प्रकार of goods और सेवाएं कि हैं नहीं taxable  .
As an illustration of the complexities : a 2006  मैसाचुसेट्स विधि requires भुगतान of कर on `` pre-written '' ( नहीं कस्टम ) तन्त्र खरीदा और डाउनलोड over the अंतरजाल  for installation and use in Massachusetts , regardless of where it originates .
However , the actual use of the same software downloaded by a  मैसाचुसेट्स निवासी to a सर्वर in another राज्य remains a non-taxed `` सेवा  '' .
In contrast ,  अरकंसास generally करता नहीं कर anything वितरित over  the Internet ( such as downloaded software or music ) , except VoIP which is specifically defined as taxable `` telecommunications services '' .
Software ( pre-written or custom ) `` delivered  thru a ठोस मीडियम '' ( i.e. , on डिस्क ) in अरकंसास is taxable भी if ordered ऑनलाइन , मगर `` कस्टम  software for a particular customer '' which is non-taxable `` programming services '' even if delivered on a disk .
In most cases , this complexity is part of the underlying sales tax laws ; but while a brick-and-mortar store has to deal with only the sales tax laws of its own location , remote sellers have to deal with the use tax laws of many jurisdictions—up to  प्रत्येक us राज्य और मोहल्ले कि प्रकृती उन्हें , if the कम्पनी रै a उपस्थिति or `` नेक्सस '' in प्रत्येक राज्य ( as  large `` brick-and-mortar '' sellers like Wal-Mart and Best Buy do ) .
In medicine , pulmonary hypertension ( PH ) is an increase of blood pressure in the pulmonary artery , pulmonary  रग , or pulmonary capillaries , साथ ज्ञात as the फेफड़ों vasculature , अग्रणी to shortness of साँस , dizziness , fainting , और अन्य लक्षण , सब of  which are exacerbated by exertion .
Pulmonary hypertension can be a severe disease  साथ a markedly decreased कसरत सहिष्णुता  and heart failure .
it थी पहला पहचाना  by Dr. Ernst von Romberg in 1891 .
According to the most recent classification , it can be one of five different types :  arterial , venous , hypoxic , thromboembolic or विविध  .
सही
सही
Sanuk , a  प्रभाग of deckers बाहरी निगम , is  a footwear brand based in Southern California .
sanuk , the थाई शब्द लिये मजा , थी संस्थापित  by Southern California native Jeff Kelley when he started making sandals out of indoor-outdoor carpet .
The first  उत्पाद निर्मित थी ग्रीन carpeted और हकदार the  `` Fur Real '' after one shop owner asked if the novelty sandal was `` For Real . ''
The Fur Real first became a runaway hit through boutique stores and  नहीं the intended लहरे दुकानें  .
The novelty act was followed up by a sandal wrapped in wire mesh , a  तेंदुआ छपाई संस्करण , और शैलियाँ बना आउट of a poncho सामग्री in a किस्में of रंगों  .
Sanuk has grown to include style options for men , women and youth and is  वितरित आरपार the संयुक्त राज्य और in over 50 देशों throughout यूरोपीय , एशिया , दक्षिण अमेरिका  and Australia .
sanuk centers itself around a धनात्मक जीवनशैली  advocating the slogan , `` Smile , Pass it on ! `` .
In computer science , array programming languages ( also known as vector or  multidimensional भाषाएं ) generalize परिचालन on scalars to लागू transparently to सदिश , matrices , और उच्चतर आयामी  arrays .
Array programming  primitives concisely एक्स्प्रेस व्यापक विचार  about data manipulation .
The level of conciseness can be dramatic in certain cases : it is not uncommon to  ढूँढें सरणी प्रोग्रामिंग भाषा one-liners कि आवश्यकता अधिक than a युगल  of pages of Java code .
APL , designed by Ken Iverson , was  the पहला प्रोग्रामिंग भाषा to provide सरणी  programming capabilities .
The mnemonic APL refers to the title of his seminal book `` A  प्रोग्रामिंग भाषा '' और नहीं to arrays प्रति se . iverson 's योगदान to rigor और स्पष्टता थी संभवतः अधिक महत्वपूर्ण than the  simple extension of dimensions to functions .
In the United States an annuity contract is created when an insured party , usually an individual , pays a life insurance company  a सिंगल प्रीमियम कि होगा बाद be वितरित वापस to the insured पार्टी  over time .
Annuity contracts  traditionally provide a गारंटी वितरण of आय over समय , ऐसे as via फिक्स्ड भुगतान , जबतक the मौत of  the person or persons named in the contract or until a final date , whichever comes first .
however , the बहुमत of आधुनिक annuity ग्राहक उपयोग annuities तभी to accumulate निधि फ़्री of  income and capital gains taxes and to later take lump-sum withdrawals without using the guaranteed-income-for-life feature .
अध्यक्ष बराक  Obama .
Barack  ओबामा साथ उसके पहला परम् अदालत nominee  , Sonia Sotomayor .
following is a सूची of सब संयुक्त राज्य  federal judges appointed by President Barack Obama during his presidency .
As of April 30 , 2013 , 187 Obama nominees to Article III judgeships have been confirmed by the  संयुक्त राज्य सीनेट , namely दो justices to the परम् अदालत of the संयुक्त राज्य , 35 न्यायाधीशों to the संयुक्त राज्य न्यायालयों of  appeals and 150 judges to the United States district courts .
25 further nominations are currently  प्रतीक्षारत सीनेट कार्रवाई  .
There are currently 16 vacancies on the United States Courts of  appeals , 67 vacancies on the संयुक्त राज्य ज़िला न्यायालयों और 22 अतिरिक्त संघीय  judiciary vacancies that are anticipated to occur before the end of Obama 's second term .
Obama has not made any  recess नियुक्ति to the  federal courts .
Obama has made two nominations  to the संयुक्त राज्य अदालत of अंतरराष्ट्रीय व्यापार  , an Article III tribunal .
Obama also designated sitting judge Emily  C. हेविट of the संयुक्त राज्य अदालत of संघीय दावा , an आलेख  I court , to be Chief Judge of that court .
This is a list  of एयरपोर्ट in मैक्सिको  , sorted by location .
Mexico has about  1,834 एयरपोर्ट , रैंकिंग 2nd in क्रमांक of  airports in North America , and 3rd in the world .
Only  प्रमुख नेशनल और अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Airports are shown .
Agency  कर्ज़ भी ज्ञात as an एजेंसी बंध is a सुरक्षा , प्रायः a बंध , जारी  by a U.S. government-sponsored agency .
The offerings of these agencies are backed but not guaranteed by the US  सरकारी चूंकि the एजेंसियों हैं निजी entities  .
कुछ prominent issuers of ये प्रतिभूति हैं छात्र ऋण विपणन संघ  ( Sallie Mae ) , Federal National Mortgage Association ( Fannie Mae ) and Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation ( Freddie Mac ) .
Agency securities are usually exempt  इससे राज्य और लोकल कर , लकिन नहीं संघीय कर  .
एजेंसी कर्ज़ is भी पुकारा  an agency security .
The Susquehanna Steam  इलेक्ट्रिक स्टेशन , a खौलते  water reactor .
The reactors are located  अंदर the आयताकार containment इमारतें towards the सामने of the  cooling towers .
Three nuclear-powered American warships , ( top to bottom ) nuclear cruisers USS Bainbridge and USS  long बीच साथ uss एंटरप्राइज़ the पहला nuclear-powered  aircraft carrier in 1964 .
Crew members are spelling out  आइंस्टीन 's mass-energy equivalence सूत्र  E = mc2 on the flight deck .
the रूसी nuclear-powered हिमभंजक  NS Yamal on a 1994 joint expedition with the NSF .
Nuclear power is the use  of sustained नाभिकीय परिवर्द्धन to generate  heat and electricity .
Nuclear power plants provided about 5.7  % of the संसार 's उर्जा और 13 % of the संसार 's विद्युत ,  in 2012 .
In 2013 , the IAEA report that there are 437 operational nuclear power  रिएक्टरों ( हालांकि नहीं सब हैं producing विद्युत ) , in 31 देशों  .
In addition ,  वहीँ हैं लगभग 140 नवल बरतन using  nuclear propulsion in operation , powered by some 180 reactors .
There  is an जारी  debate about the use of nuclear energy .
Proponents , such as the World  नाभिकीय संघ , the iaea और पर्यावरणविद लिये नाभिकीय उर्जा contend कि नाभिकीय  power is a sustainable energy source that reduces carbon emissions .
Opponents , such as Greenpeace International and NIRS , believe  कि नाभिकीय शक्ति मुद्राएँ अनेक खतरे to लोगों  and the environment .
Nuclear power plant accidents include the Chernobyl disaster  ( 1986 ) , फुकुशिमा daiichi नाभिकीय विपत्ति ( 2011 ) , और the तीन मील द्वीप दुर्घटना  ( 1979 ) .
There have  भी महरूम कुछ nuclear-powered  submarine mishaps .
Research into safety  सुधार is continuing और नाभिकीय संलयन , believed  to be safer , may be used in the future .
As of 2012 , according to the IAEA  , विश्वव्यापी वहीँ यहूद 68 सिविल नाभिकीय शक्ति रिएक्टरों अंतर्गत निर्माण in  15 countries .
In  the us the पंक्तियां of लगभग हाफ इसके रिएक्टरों have महरूम विस्तारित  to 60 years , and plans to build another dozen are under serious consideration .
However , Japan  's 2011 फुकुशिमा daiichi नाभिकीय विपत्ति prompted a पुनर्विचार  of nuclear energy policy in many countries .
Germany  decided to बंद सब इसके रिएक्टरों  by 2022 , and Italy has banned nuclear power .
Following Fukushima , the International Energy Agency halved its  अनुमान of अतिरिक्त नाभिकीय generating क्षमता to be निर्मित  by 2035 .
Photograph of the  बर्लिन वॉल लिया  from the West side .
The Wall was built in 1961 to  prevent ईस्ट germans इससे fleeing इससे साम्यवादी  .
It was an  iconic प्रतीक of the ठंडा युद्ध और इसके पतन  in 1989 marked the end of the War .
The Cold War , often dated from 1947 to 1991 , was a sustained state of political  और सैन्य टेंशन between शक्तियां in the पश्चिमी bloc , वर्चस्व by the संयुक्त राज्य साथ नाटो  among its allies , and powers in the Eastern Bloc , dominated by the Soviet Union along with the Warsaw Pact .
This began after the success of their temporary  wartime गठबंधन विरूद्ध नाजी जर्मनी , leaving the ussr और the us as दो superpowers साथ  profound economic and political differences .
A neutral faction arose with the Non-Aligned Movement founded by Egypt , India , and Yugoslavia ; this  गुट अस्वीकृत संघ साथ either the us-led वेस्ट or the  Soviet-led East .
The Cold War was so named because the two major powers—each  possessing नाभिकीय हथियार और thereby threatened साथ  mutual assured destruction —never met in direct military combat .
Instead , in their struggle for global influence  वे सगाई in जारी मनोवैज्ञानिक warfare और in नियमित अप्रत्यक्ष confrontations  through proxy wars .
Cycles of  सापेक्ष शांत होता be followed by ऊँची टेंशन  , which could have led to world war .
The tensest times were during the Berlin Blockade ( 1948–1949 ) , the Korean  युद्ध ( 1950–1953 ) , the स्वेज संकट ( 1956 ) , the बर्लिन संकट of 1961 , the क्यूबन मिसाइल संकट ( 1962 ) , the वियतनाम युद्ध ( 1959–1975 ) , the योम kippur युद्ध ( 1973 ) , the सोवियत  war in Afghanistan ( 1979–1989 ) , the Soviet downing of Korean Air Lines Flight 007 ( 1983 ) , and the `` Able Archer '' NATO military exercises ( 1983 ) .
The conflict was expressed  through सैन्य coalitions , रणनीतिक conventional फ़ोर्स deployments , extensive सहायता to क्लाएंट राज्य , espionage , विशाल प्रचार  campaigns , conventional and nuclear arms races , appeals to neutral nations , rivalry at sports events ( in particular the Olympics ) , and technological competitions such as the Space Race .
The US and USSR became involved in political and military conflicts in the Third World countries of Latin America ,  अफ़्रीकी , the मध्य ईस्ट , और southeast  Asia .
To alleviate the risk of a potential nuclear war , both sides  sought राहत of राजनैतिक तनाव through détente in  the 1970s .
In the 1980s , the United States increased diplomatic , military , and economic  pressures on the सोवियत संघ , at a समय जब the कम्युनिस्ट राज्य थी already कष्ट इससे  economic stagnation .
In the mid-1980s ,  the नई सोवियत अध्यक्ष मिखाइल गोर्बाचेव introduced the liberalizing reforms of perestroika ( `` reorganization  '' , 1987 ) and glasnost ( `` openness '' , ca . 1985 ) .
Pressures for  नेशनल स्वतंत्रता grew stronger in  Eastern Europe , especially Poland .
They reached a  तोड़कर पाइंट जब गोर्बाचेव refused to उपयोग सोवियत सैनिकों to support the faltering  government of East Germany in late 1989 .
भीतर सप्ताह सब the उपग्रह राज्य  broke free from Moscow in a peaceful wave of revolutions ( there was some violence in Romania ) .
The  pressures escalated अंदर the सोवियत संघ , जहाँ साम्यवादी गिरी और the  USSR was formally dissolved in late 1991 .
The United  राज्य remained as the संसार 's  only superpower .
The Cold War and  इसके कार्यक्रम have बाएँ a significant विरासत , और it is प्रायः referred to in लोकप्रिय संस्कृति , विशेषकर in  media featuring themes of espionage and the threat of nuclear warfare .
Pikes Peak State Park is a state park of Iowa , USA , featuring a  bluff निहार the अपर मिसिसिपी नदी विपरीत the संगम  of the Wisconsin River .
The park is operated by the Iowa Department of  प्राकृतिक संसाधन  .
It is nearly a thousand acres ( 4 km2  ) in extent  .
The nearest  नगर is मैकग्रेगर , आयोवा  .
Iowa  राजमार्ग 76 लगभग  defines its northern boundary .
It gets its name from the Iowa incarnation of  pikes शिखर , a विशेषकर ऊँची पाइंट निहार the gorge of the अपर मिसिसिपी , और जैसे pikes  Peak in Colorado , is named for Zebulon Pike .
There are hiking  trails , campgrounds  and RV facilities .
Mountain  बाइक हैं permitted in निश्चित  portions of the park .
Aside from  recreational विकास , the जमीन in the पार्क थी never साफ और to a  large extent remains as it was before the advent of white settlement .
It is part of a larger complex of parks ,  reserves और refuges जिससे शामिल पुतला mounds नेशनल स्मारक , the विभिन्न components of the पीला नदी राज्य वन , the विशाल  Upper Mississippi River National Wildlife and Fish Refuge and much smaller , much less well known Driftless Area National Wildlife Refuge .
The  पूर्वोत्तर आयोवा विरासत ट्रेल  System is undergoing development , and will connect elements of these sites .
Zac Brown Band is an American  country/folk बैंड आधारित in अटलांटा  , Georgia .
The lineup consists of Zac Brown ( lead vocals , guitar ) , Jimmy De Martini ( fiddle , vocals ) , John Driskell Hopkins ( bass  गिटार , vocals ) , coy bowles ( गिटार , keyboards ) , क्रिस fryar ( ड्रम ) , मिट्टी कुक ( गिटार , keyboards , mandolin  , steel guitar , vocals ) , and Daniel de los Reyes ( percussion ) .
The band has toured throughout the United States , including a slot on  the 2009 और 2010 bonnaroo  Music Festival .
They have also recorded five studio albums , and charted nine Number One singles on the Billboard country charts : `` Chicken Fried `` , `` Toes `` ,  `` राजमार्ग 20 सवारी `` , `` फ़्री `` , `` as वो 's चलना दूर `` , `` colder मौसम `` , `` घुटना गहन `` , `` रखना me in दिमाग `` , और `` अलविदा in उसके आँखें `` in जोड to the singles  `` Whatever It Is `` and `` No Hurry `` , which peaked at number 2 on the same chart .
Talk radio is a radio format  containing चर्चा परिचय topical मुद्दे  .
Most shows are regularly  hosted by a सिंगल व्यक्तिगत , और प्रायः विशेषता साक्षात्कार साथ a क्रमांक  of different guests .
बात रेडियो typically शामिल an तत्व of श्रोता भागीदारी  , usually by broadcasting live conversations between the host and listeners who `` call in '' ( usually via telephone ) to the show .
Listener  योगदान हैं प्रायः screened by a दिखाएँ 's निर्माता ( s ) in अनुक्रम to अधिकतम दर्शक ब्याज और , in the  case of commercial talk radio , attract advertisers .
Generally , the shows are organized into segments ,  प्रत्येक अलग by a ठहराना लिये विज्ञापन ; however , in पब्लिक or non-commercial रेडियो , म्यूज़िक is sometimes निभाई in प्लेस  of commercials to separate the program segments .
Variations of talk radio include conservative talk , hot  बात , उदार बात और खेल  talk .
While talk radio has historically been associated with AM/FM , starting around  2005 the प्रौद्योगिकी लिये internet-based talk-radio shows became लागत प्रभावी in the रूप of podcasts  .
Now , it is possible for an individual to  उपयोग a किस्में of सेवाएं to मेजबान an internet-based talk-radio दिखाएँ बगैर carriage  by a traditional radio station .
In  जोड tv प्रोग्रामिंग इससे बात और न्यूज आउटलेट ऐसे as बीबीसी , सीएनएन , ब्लूमबर्ग और फॉक्स हैं अभी प्रायः  available expanding the world of talk radio further .
Talk radio listening is now enjoyed not only on radios , but a wide variety of other devices and services including  pcs using itunes , स्टेशन निर्देशिका ऐसे as tunein , दिखाएँ निर्देशिका स्मार्टफ़ोन साथ ऐप्स ऐसे  as Stitcher .
Hippa is a genus of decapod  crustaceans in the परिवार hippidae , containing the following  species:
Hippa  adactyla fabricius  , 1787
hippa admirabilis ( thallwitz  , 1892 )
Hippa  alcimede ( de man  , 1902 )
Hippa  australis hale , 1927
Hippa  carcineutes holthuis & मैनिंग  , 1970
Hippa  celaeno ( de man ,  1896 )
Hippa granulatus (  borradaile , 1904 )
Hippa  hirtipes ( दाना , 1852  )
hippa इंडिका haig , मुरुगन & बालकृष्णन  Nair , 1986
Hippa marmorata  ( hombron &  Jacquinot , 1846 )
Hippa ovalis (  A. milne-edwards ,  1862 )
Hippa  picta ( heller ,  1861 )
Hippa strigillata  ( stimpson  , 1860 )
hippa testudinaria (  Herbst , 1791 )
Hippa  truncatifrons ( miers , 1878  )
It is closely  सम्बन्धित to the genus emerita , और प्रजाति have प्रायः महरूम  transferred between the two genera .
Jakarta ( ) , officially known as the Special Capital  प्रदेश of जकार्ता ( ) , is the पूंजी और largest नगर of  Indonesia .
स्तिथ on the उत्तरपश्चिम coast of जावा , जकार्ता is the देश 's आर्थिक , सांस्कृतिक और राजनैतिक केन्द्र , और  with a population of 10,187,595 as of November 2011 , it is the most populous city in Indonesia and in Southeast Asia , and is the thirteenth most populated city in the world .
The  आधिकारिक महानगर क्षेत्रफल , ज्ञात as jabodetabek ( a नाम formed by combining the आरंभिक syllables of जकार्ता , bogor , depok , tangerang  and Bekasi ) , is the second largest in the world , yet the metropolis 's suburbs still continue beyond it .
जकार्ता is सूचीबद्ध as a वैश्विक नगर in the 2008 वैश्वीकरण  and World Cities Study Group and Network ( GaWC ) research .
और रै an  area of .
This area has population of well over 28 million , making it one of the  संसार 's largest conurbations in शर्तें of क्रमांक of  inhabitants .
in 2011 , जकार्ता क्रमित 17th  among the world 's 200 largest cities , a jump from its 2007 ranking of 171 .
Jakarta has  grown अधिक rapidly than kuala lumpur  , Beijing and Bangkok .
Established in the fourth century , the city became an  महत्वपूर्ण व्यापार बंदरगाहों लिये  the Kingdom of Sunda .
It was the de facto capital of the  डच ईस्ट इंडीज ( जब it थी ज्ञात as batavia ) और रै जारी as the पूंजी of  Indonesia since the country 's independence was declared in 1945 .
The  नगर is the सीट of the आसियान  Secretariat .
Jakarta is served by the Soekarno–Hatta International Airport , Halim Perdanakusuma International  विमानक्षेत्र , और tanjung priok harbour ; it is कनेक्ट by अनेक intercity और commuter रेल , और  served by several bus lines running on reserved busways .
A typical  घर एयर कंडीशनिंग  window unit .
Air conditioning is the process of altering the properties of air  ( primarily तापमान और आर्द्रता ) to अधिक favourable शर्तें  .
More generally , air conditioning can refer to any form of  technological कूलिंग , हीटिंग , वेंटिलेशन , or कीटाणुशोधन कि modifies the  condition of air .
An air conditioner ( often referred to as air con , AC or A/C , and not to be confused with the abbreviation for alternating current ) is a  प्रमुख or घर appliance , प्रणाली , or यांत्रिकी designed to बदलें the एयर तापमान और आर्द्रता भीतर an क्षेत्रफल ( प्रयुक्त लिये कूलिंग  and sometimes heating depending on the air properties at a given time ) .
The cooling is  typically किया using a सरल प्रशीतन साईकिल , लकिन sometimes वाष्पीकरण  is used , commonly for comfort cooling in buildings and motor vehicles .
In construction , a  पूरा प्रणाली of हीटिंग , वेंटिलेशन  and air conditioning is referred to as `` HVAC `` .
`` 6 Foot 7 Foot '' ( also styled as `` 6'7 '' ) is a  सोंग by अमरीकी rapper लील वेन featuring लेबल mate , कोरी  Gunz .
It is  लिया इससे उसके नवीं स्टुडियो एल्बम  , Tha Carter IV ( 2011 ) .
It was  officially released on itunes on  December 16 , 2010 .
It was produced by `` A  milli `` निर्माता बांग्लादेश  .
the सोंग नमूने `` day-o ( the banana नाव  Song ) `` by Harry Belafonte .
DC Talk ( styled as dc Talk ) , is a Grammy  -winning ईसाई रैप तिकड़ी  .
The group was formed in Lynchburg , Virginia in 1987  by टोबी mckeehan , माइकल tait  , and Kevin Max Smith .
They have released five  प्रमुख स्टुडियो एल्बम साथ : dc बात ( 1989 ) , nu थांग  ( 1990 ) , Free at Last ( 1992 ) , Jesus Freak ( 1995 ) , and Supernatural ( 1998 ) .
In 2002 , the  ज्ञानकोष of समकालीन ईसाई म्यूज़िक पुकारा dc  Talk `` the most popular overtly Christian act of all time . ''
In  2000 , the समूह released an ep titled सोलो जिससे contained  two solo songs from each member .
Since  कि समय , dc बात रै महरूम on an indefinite अंतराल  , and the three band members have each led solo careers .
They have performed and recorded individual songs together  अनेक टाइम्स दौरान the 2000s , हालांकि the समूह never officially  reunited or disbanded .
The group  's musical स्टाइल विकसित significantly throughout  their career .
Their first two releases , DC Talk  और nu थांग , यहूद of the  hip hop genre .
DC Talk 's third album , Free at Last ,  भी मुख्यतः took influence इससे the हिप हॉप स्टाइल , हालांकि उनके म्यूज़िक  began taking on a rock sound .
The  तिकड़ी 's पिछला दो एल्बम  , Jesus Freak and Supernatural , were predominantly pop rock .
The Bible is a  संकलन of अनेक shorter किताबे लिखा at अलग टाइम्स  and later assembled into the biblical canon .
All but the shortest of these books have been divided into  अध्याय , generally a पेज or so in लंबाई , चूंकि  the early 13th century .
Since  the mid-16th सदी , प्रत्येक अध्याय रै महरूम further  divided into `` verses '' of a few short lines or sentences .
Sometimes a sentence spans more than one  श्लोक , as in the मामला of , और sometimes वहीँ is अधिक than एक वाक्य in a सिंगल  verse , as in the case of .
As the chapter and verse divisions were not part of the  असली ग्रन्थ , वे रूप भाग of the paratext  of the Bible .
The Jewish divisions of the Hebrew text  differ at विभिन्न अंक इससे those प्रयुक्त by ईसाइयों  .
For instance , in  यहूदी परंपरा , the ascriptions to अनेक ज़बूर हैं regarded as स्वतंत्र आयतें , बनाना 116 अधिक आयतें , whereas the स्थापित ईसाई  practice is to count and number each Psalm ascription together with the first verse following it .
Some chapter divisions also occur in different  स्थान , e.g . in यहूदी bibles is गिने as  in Christian translations .
An index ( plural : indexes ) is a list of words or phrases ( 'headings ' ) and associated  संकेतक ( 'लोकेटरs ' ) to जहाँ उपयोगी सामग्री relating to कि heading can be  found in a document .
In a traditional  back-of-the-book अनुक्रमणिका the headings होगा शामिल names of लोगों , स्थान और कार्यक्रम , और अवधारणाओं चयनित  by a person as being relevant and of interest to a possible reader of the book .
The pointers are  typically पेज संख्याएँ , अनुच्छेद  numbers or section numbers .
In a library  कैटलॉग the शब्द हैं लेखक , शीर्षक , विषय headings , etc.  , and the pointers are call numbers .
Internet search engines , such as Google , and full text searching help provide access to  सूचना लकिन हैं नहीं as चयनात्मक as an अनुक्रमणिका , as वे provide non-relevant कड़ी , और may मिस प्रासंगिक सूचना if  it is not phrased in exactly the way they expect .
In United  राज्य वित्तीय विनियमन , a संदिग्ध कार्यकलाप रपट ( or sar ) is a रपट  made by a financial institution to the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network ( FinCEN ) , an agency of the United States Department of the Treasury , regarding suspicious or potentially suspicious activity .
Facebook on  the ad-tech 2010
Facebook is an online social networking service , whose name stems from the colloquial name for the book  दिए to विद्यार्थी at the प्रारंभ of the अकादमिक साल by कुछ  university administrations in the United States to help students get to know each other .
It was founded in February 2004  by चिह्नित zuckerberg साथ उसके कॉलेज roommates और fellow हार्वर्ड विश्वविद्यालयों विद्यार्थी  Eduardo Saverin , Andrew McCollum , Dustin Moskovitz and Chris Hughes .
The website 's membership was initially limited by the  संस्थापकों to हार्वर्ड विद्यार्थी , लकिन थी विस्तारित to अन्य कॉलेजों in  the Boston area , the Ivy League , and Stanford University .
It gradually added  support लिये विद्यार्थी at विभिन्न अन्य विश्वविद्यालयों पहले खोलने  to high school students , and eventually to anyone aged 13 and over .
Facebook now allows any users who declare themselves to be at  तनिक 13 सालो बूढ़ा to become  registered users of the site .
Users must register before using the site , after  जिससे वे may बनाएँ a निजी प्रोफ़ाइल , add अन्य उपयोक्ता as मित्रों , और एक्सचेंज संदेश , सहित  automatic notifications when they update their profile .
additionally , उपयोक्ता may जुड़ें common-interest उपयोक्ता समूह , व्यवस्थित by कार्यस्थल , स्कूल or कॉलेज , or अन्य  characteristics , and categorize their friends into lists such as `` People From Work '' or `` Close Friends '' .
As of September  2012 , फेसबुक रै over एक  billion active users .
According to a May 2011 Consumer Reports survey , there are 7.5 million children under 13 with  खाते और 5 लाख अंतर्गत 10 , violating the साईट 's शर्तें of सेवा  .
In May 2005 , Accel partners invested $ 12.7  लाख in फेसबुक , और जिम breyer added $ 1 लाख of  his own money to the pot .
A January 2009  compete.com पढ़ाई क्रमित फेसबुक as the सबसे प्रयुक्त  social networking service by worldwide monthly active users .
Entertainment  साप्ताहिक शामिल the साईट on इसके end-of-the-decade `` best-of '' सूची , saying , `` कैसा on धरती किया we stalk हमारी exes , याद हमारी co-workers  ' birthdays , bug our friends , and play a rousing game of Scrabulous before Facebook ? ''
आलोचकों , ऐसे as फेसबुक detox , राज्य कि फेसबुक रै turned into a नेशनल obsession  in the United States , resulting in vast amounts of time lost and encouraging narcissism .
Quantcast estimates Facebook  रै 138.9 लाख मासिक अद्वितीय u.S. विज़िटर  in May 2011 .
According  to सोशल मीडिया आज , in अप्रैल 2010 an अनुमानित 41.6 % ( 129.5 लाख  ) of the U.S. population had a Facebook account .
Nevertheless , Facebook 's market growth started to  स्टाल in कुछ regions , साथ the साईट खोने 7 लाख क्रियाशील उपयोक्ता in  the United States and Canada in May 2011 .
Facebook eventually filed for an initial public offering on February 1  , 2012 , और थी headquartered in मेनलो  Park , California .
Facebook Inc. began selling stock to  the पब्लिक और व्यापार on the नैस्डैक on may  18 , 2012 .
सल्फोनेमाइड कार्यात्मक  group
Hydrochlorothiazide  is a सल्फोनेमाइड और  a thiazide .
Furosemide  is a सल्फोनेमाइड , लकिन  not a thiazide .
Sulfonamide  or sulphonamide is the आधार of  several groups of drugs .
The original antibacterial  sulfonamides ( sometimes पुकारा sulfa दवाएँ or sulpha दवाएँ ) हैं  synthetic antimicrobial agents that contain the sulfonamide group .
कुछ sulfonamides हैं भी विहीन of जीवाणुरोधी  activity , e.g. , the anticonvulsant sultiame .
The sulfonylureas and thiazide diuretics are newer  ड्रग समूह आधारित on the जीवाणुरोधी sulfonamides  .
sulfa allergies हैं आम , hence medications  containing sulfonamides are prescribed carefully .
It is important to make a distinction  between sulfa दवाएँ और अन्य sulfur-containing दवाएँ और एडिटिव , ऐसे as sulfates और sulfites , जिससे हैं chemically  unrelated to the sulfonamide group , and do not cause the same hypersensitivity reactions seen in the sulfonamides .
This is a list of  वर्ण इससे जार्ज लोपेज़  .
Domestic geese ( Anser anser domesticus or Anser cygnoides ) are  domesticated धूसर geese ( either ग्रेलैग geese or swan geese ) रखा as मुर्गीपालन लिये उनके मांस , अंडे , और bas feathers  since ancient times .
30 Seconds to Mars is an American rock  बैंड इससे लॉस एंजिल्स , formed in 1998  .
Since 2007 , the  बैंड रै consisted of कर्ता jared leto ( सीसे vocals , लय गिटार , songwriter  ) , Shannon Leto ( drums , percussion ) and Tomo Miličević ( lead guitar , keyboards ) .
Following the departure of Matt Wachter ( now of Angels & Airwaves )  in 2007 , टिम kelleher became the bassist लिये the समूह , performing सजीव तभी साथ दोनो jared और miličević रिकॉर्डिंग बास लिये स्टुडियो  recordings , while Braxton Olita ( keyboards ) was added to the touring lineup in 2009 .
Previously , the group  भी प्रदर्शित guitarists  Solon Bixler ( now of Great Northern ) and Kevin Drake ( now of Polaroid Kiss ) .
To date , 30 Seconds to Mars have  released तीन स्टुडियो एल्बम – 30 सेकेंड to मंगल ( 2002  ) , A Beautiful Lie ( 2005 ) , This Is War ( 2009 ) and three extended plays – AOL Sessions Undercover ( 2007 ) , To the Edge of the Earth ( 2008 ) , and MTV Unplugged : 30 Seconds to Mars ( 2011 ) .
30 सेकेंड to मंगल ' म्यूज़िक रै महरूम संबद्ध ज़्यादातर साथ neo-prog , प्रगतिशील  metal and post-grunge , but they have also included emo , screamo , space rock and synthrock into their music .
They have been compared to Pink  floyd ( जो यहूद an influence on उनके कार्य ) और औजार क्युकी of उनके उपयोग of philosophical और आध्यात्मिक गीत ,  concept albums and their use of experimental music .
A Christmas Story is a 1983 American Christmas comedy film  आधारित on the छोटी कहानियां और semi-fictional उपाख्यानों of लेखक और raconteur जां गड़रिये  , based on his book In God We Trust , All Others Pay Cash , with some elements derived from Wanda Hickey 's Night of Golden Memories .
It  थी निर्देशित  by Bob Clark .
The film has since become a holiday classic and is shown numerous  टाइम्स on टेलीविज़न दौरान the क्रिसमस ऋतु on the संजाल tbs , प्रायः  in a 24-hour marathon .
In 2012 , the film was selected for preservation in the National Film  रजिस्ट्री by the पुस्तकालयों of कॉंग्रेस लिये होने `` culturally , historically , or aesthetically significant  '' .
A Joe  's केकड़ा shack शाखा  in San Diego , CA .
The building was  initially a rowing क्लबों और थी बाद परिवर्तित  into the restaurant .
Joe 's  केकड़ा shack is an अमरीकी कड़ी of beach-themed seafood कैज़ुअल डाइनिंग रेस्तरां  owned by Ignite Restaurant Group .
Founded in Houston ,  टेक्सास , the रेस्तरां अभी operates स्थितियाँ सब आरपार the संयुक्त  States of America .
It serves seafood  और अमरीकी भोजन  .
The restaurants also  have a तोहफा दूकान कि बिकता facetious t-shirts featuring वाक्यांश विज्ञापन  Joe 's seafood choices .
It  is आधारित in  Houston , Texas .
New York City Cruise Liner  टर्मिनल in नरक 's रसोईघर at 52nd गली  .
The  नई यॉर्क यात्री जलयान टर्मिनल ( भी ज्ञात as the लक्ज़री लाइनर पंक्ति or मैनहटन क्रूज टर्मिनल  or New York Cruise Terminal ) is a terminal for ocean-going passenger ships on Manhattan 's west side .
The terminal consists  of उत्तर नदी पियर 88 , 90 , 92 और 94 on the हडसन नदी  between West 46th and West 54th Street .
( As a general rule , pier numbers in Manhattan can  be संकल्पित by adding 40 to the सम्बन्धित cross-street  . )
Ships  अभी डॉक at पियर  88 , 90 and 92 .
Pier 94 on the north side is now used  लिये प्रदर्शनी स्पेस  .
Pier 86 , once used by United States Lines ,  is अभी घर to the uss intrepid  .
In 2003 , the terminal  संभाला 900,000 यात्री  .
The city is forecasting that 1.5  लाख होगा उपयोग the टर्मिनल  by 2017 .
the पियर हैं  long and apart .
They were first  समाप्त in 1935 to बदलें the चेल्सी पियर as the  city 's luxury liner terminal .
The new terminal was built to handle bigger ships that had  outgrown the  Chelsea Piers .
The piers were renovated  in 1970 और हैं फिलहाल undergoing  another $ 150 million renovation .
The renovated plans call for it to handle  तीन विशाल जहाजों at a समय  .
In doing renovations , the city is also  considering decommissioning बांध 92  .
Logo  of the नई  York Cruise Terminal.For
दशकों the टर्मिनल थी  the only ocean-going passenger terminal in New York harbor .
With an upsurge in cruise ship traffic and the terminal 's ability to handle comfortably only three large ships at a time , two new terminals have opened in the harbor — the Cape Liberty Cruise Port opened  in 2004 in bayonne , नई जर्सी ( प्रयुक्त by royal caribbean क्रूज लकीर , हस्ती क्रूज़ और azamara क्रूज़ ) , और the ब्रुकलीन क्रूज टर्मिनल ( प्रयुक्त by the महारानी मरियम 2 और अन्य जहाजों  of the Carnival Corporation cruise brands ) opened in 2006 in Brooklyn , New York .
The West Side  राजमार्ग takes a छोटी जोग ईस्ट इससे the पियर to नीचे वेस्ट 42nd गली क्युकी जब the  terminal was built land had to be taken away from Manhattan to allow for longer piers .
The US Army Corps of Engineers , who control the  waterfront आयाम , होता नहीं extend the pierhead लकीर दूर into the नदी , so the नगर विस्तारित  the pier by cutting away at the land .
The city earlier did this for the  चेल्सी पियर ; however in चेल्सी तभी  landfill was taken away .
At the  यात्री टर्मिनल वास्तविक मैनहटन  schist was taken away .
From  डाउनस्ट्रीम in the  river
Many major  यात्री जहाजों have docked वहीँ , सहित the rms महारानी मरियम 2 और स्वतंत्रता  of the Seas , before the Brooklyn and Bayonne terminals opened .
The SS Normandie caught fire and  subsequently capsized at इसके बांध 88 berth  during World War II .
The Normandie , renamed USS  lafayette , झूठ capsized in the frozen  mud at Pier 88 in the winter of 1942
नॉर्वेजियाई क्रूज लकीर 's जल्द to be नवीनतम  ship the Norwegian Breakaway will sail year-round out of the New York Passenger Ship Terminal .
The city will spend $ 4  लाख to renovate और उन्नयन the  cruise terminal to accommodate the ship .
This is an overview  of the नियमित , पुनरावर्ती , और  other characters of the TV series NCIS .
Christian right is a term used in the United States  to describe right-wing ईसाई राजनैतिक समूह कि हैं characterized by उनके दमदार support  of socially conservative policies .
Christian conservatives principally seek to apply their understanding of the teachings of Christianity to politics and public policy by proclaiming the  मान of those शिक्षाओं and/or by seeking to उपयोग those शिक्षाओं to influence विधि और पब्लिक  policy .
In the U.S. , the Christian right is an  अनौपचारिक गठबन्धन formed around a कोर of धर्मान्तरण protestants कि draws `` support इससे नीतियां रूढ़िवादी catholics , यहूदियों , mormons  , and occasionally secularists '' who share their goals .
The movement has its roots in  अमरीकी राजनीती going वापस as दूर the 1940s और रै महरूम  especially influential since the 1970s .
Their influence draws , in part , from  grassroots सक्रियता as खूब as  their focus on social issues and ability to motivate the electorate around those issues .
The Christian right is notable today for advancing socially conservative positions on  मुद्दे सहित स्कूल दुआ , स्टेम कोशिका शोध , समलैंगिकता , निरोधक , गर्भपात  , and pornography .
Although the Christian right is usually associated with the U.S. ,  the गति रै महरूम a कुंजी फ़ैक्टर in the राजनीती of कनाडा , the नीदरलैंड्स , उत्तरी आयरलैंड  and Australia , among others .
Far East Movement (  stylized as far★east गति or abbreviated fm ) is  an American hip hop band quartet based in Los Angeles .
The group  formed in 2003 और consists of kev nish ( केविन nishimura ) , prohgress  ( James Roh ) , J-Splif ( Jae Choung ) , and DJ Virman ( Virman Coquia ) .
Far East Movement 's first claim to fame was their  सोंग `` गोलाकार गोलाकार '' प्रदर्शित in the हॉलीवुड फिल्म  , The Fast and the Furious : Tokyo Drift , and its subsequent soundtrack , video game and DVD .
Since `` Round Round '' , the group has been featured on various network shows  सहित , , अनुगामी , गपशप लड़की , और finishing the खेल ( a प्रदर्शित  film at Sundance 2007 ) .
Their single `` Like a G6 `` hit number one on the Billboard  hot 100 चार्ट और on itunes as खूब in लेट अक्तूबर  2010 .
Far  ईस्ट गति भी रै the भेद of होने the पहला asian-american समूह to earn a #  1 hit on the Billboard Hot 100 in the United States .
LR44 is the IEC designation  लिये an क्षारीय 1.5 वोल्ट बटन कोशिका , commonly प्रयुक्त in छोटी led flashlights ,  digital thermometers , calculators , calipers , watches , clocks , toys and laser pointers .
LR44  क्षारीय  cell
The battery nomenclature is defined by the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय विद्युततकनीकी आयोग ( आईईसी ) in इसके 60086-3 मानक ( प्राथमिक  batteries , part 3 Watch batteries ) .
The letter L indicates the  electrochemical प्रणाली प्रयुक्त ; a जस्ता ऋणात्मक एलेक्ट्रोड , मैंगनीज डाइऑक्साइड depolarizer  and positive electrode , and an alkaline electrolyte .
R44 indicates a round cell 11.4±0.2 mm diameter and 5.2±0.2 mm height as  पारिभाषित by the आईईसी मानक  60086 .
Manufacturers have their own part numbers  लिये आईईसी प्रकार lr44 बैटरी including:
LR44  , lr44g , lr44gd  , LR44H
LR1154 , L1154 ,  l1154c , l1154f , l1154g , l1154h
6135-99-792-8475  ( NSN )
1166a
AG13 ,  a613 , ag14 , ag-14 , g13a  , G13-A
157 ,  303 , 357
A76 , GDA76 , GP76A  , gpa7 , gpa75 , gpa76 , gps76A,
1128MP ,  208-904 , a-76 , ca18 , ca19 , cr44 , d76a , ka , ka76 , ms76h , px76a  , PX675A , RPX675 , RW82 , SB-F9 , V13GA
4.5-volt , D , C , AA , AAA , AAAA , A23 ,  9-volt , cr2032 और lr44 बैटरी
Other types  of बैटरी हैं or यहूद बना  in the R44 size .
Formerly , mercury batteries were  बना as बटन कोशिकाएं ( प्रकार mr44 और nr44 )  .
Zinc-air batteries  प्रकार pr44 आवश्यकता  air to work .
Silver-oxide batteries type SR44 may provide extra  क्षमता compared to lr44 प्रकार लकिन have थोड़ा अलग वोल्टेज विशेषताएँ  .
Performance of a device meant to use a silver-oxide  बैटरी may be degraded साथ प्रतिस्थापन of lr44 प्रकार  .
Manufacturer  's संख्याएँ लिये चांदी ऑक्साइड  R44 size cells include:
sr44/sr44w/sr44sw
6135-99-651-3240 ( nsn  )
sr1154
1107so
1131sop
sg13
s76
epx76 ( energizer  )
303/357 (  D357H )
Hurricane  कैटरीना थी the deadliest और सबसे destructive अटलांटिक  hurricane of the 2005 Atlantic hurricane season .
It was the costliest natural disaster , as well as one of the five  deadliest hurricanes , in the इतिहास of the संयुक्त राज्य  .
among अंकित अटलांटिक hurricanes , it  was the sixth strongest overall .
At least 1,833 people died in the hurricane and subsequent floods , making it the deadliest U.S. hurricane since the 1928 Okeechobee hurricane ; total property damage was  अनुमानित at $ 81 अरब ( 2005 usd ) , nearly ट्रिपल the क्षति brought by hurricane एंड्रयू in  1992 .
Hurricane Katrina formed over the Bahamas on August 23 , 2005 and crossed southern Florida as a moderate Category 1 hurricane  , causing कुछ मौतों और बाढ़ वहीँ पहले strengthening rapidly in  the Gulf of Mexico .
The hurricane strengthened to a  श्रेणी 5 hurricane over the गरम गल्फ जल , लकिन weakened पहले बनाना इसके दूसरी landfall as a श्रेणी  3 hurricane on the morning of Monday , August 29 in southeast Louisiana .
It caused  कठोर विनाश साथ the गल्फ coast  from central Florida to Texas , much of it due to the storm surge .
The most significant  क्रमांक of मौतों occurred in नई ऑरलियन्स , louisiana , जिससे flooded as the तटबन्ध  system catastrophically failed , in many cases hours after the storm had moved inland .
Eventually 80 % of the city and large  tracts of neighboring parishes became flooded , और the floodwaters  lingered for weeks .
however , the worst प्रॉपर्टी क्षति occurred in तटीय क्षेत्रों , ऐसे as सब मिसिसिपी beachfront कस्बों , जिससे यहूद flooded  over 90 % in hours , as boats and casino barges rammed buildings , pushing cars and houses inland , with waters reaching 6–12 miles ( 10–19 km ) from the beach .
The hurricane surge protection failures in New Orleans are  माना the worst सिविल अभियान्त्रिकी विपत्ति in u.S. इतिहास और prompted a मुकदमा विरूद्ध the u.S. फौज corps of इंजीनियर्स ( usace ) , the designers और बिल्डर  of the levee system as mandated by the Flood Control Act of 1965 .
Responsibility for the failures and flooding was laid squarely on the Army Corps in January 2008 by Judge  stanwood डुवल , u.S. ज़िला अदालत , लकिन the संघीय एजेंसी could नहीं be आयोजित financially liable due to sovereign प्रतिरक्षण in the बाढ़  Control Act of 1928 .
There was also an investigation of the responses from federal , state and local governments , resulting in the  इस्तीफा of संघीय आपात प्रबन्धन एजेंसी ( fema ) निदेशक माइकल D. भूरा , और of नई ऑरलियन्स पुलिस विभाग ( nopd ) अधीक्षक  Eddie Compass .
Several agencies including the United States Coast Guard ( USCG ) , National  hurricane बीच ( nhc ) , और नेशनल मौसम सेवा (  NWS ) were commended for their actions .
वे provided सटीक hurricane मौसम ट्रैकिंग  forecasts with sufficient lead time .
Even the most insistent appeals  इससे नेशनल , राज्य और लोकल पब्लिक officials to निवासियों to evacuate पहले the तूफ़ान किया नहीं warn  that the levees could breach and fail .
u.S. कर्ज़ इससे  1940 to 2011 .
Red lines indicate the `` debt held by the  पब्लिक '' और ब्लैक लाइनों indicate the कुल नेशनल  debt or gross public debt .
The difference is the `` intragovernmental debt , ''  जिससे शामिल दायित्वों to सरकारी कार्यक्रम ऐसे as सोशल सुरक्षा  .
stated as a सूत्र , नेशनल कर्ज़ = कर्ज़  held by the Public + Intragovernmental Debt .
the दूसरी फलक shows the दो कर्ज़ आंकड़े as  a percentage of U.S. GDP ( dollar value of U.S. economic production for that year ) .
The top  फलक is deflated so प्रत्येक साल is in 2010  dollars .
The United States public debt is the money borrowed by the federal government of the United States through the issuing of  प्रतिभूति by the राजकोष और अन्य संघीय सरकारी  agencies .
US public debt  consists of दो घटकs:
Debt held by the public includes Treasury securities held by investors outside the federal government , including that held by  individuals , corporations , the संघीय आरक्षित प्रणाली और विदेशी , राज्य और लोकल  governments .
Debt held by government accounts or intragovernmental debt includes non-marketable Treasury securities held in accounts administered by the  संघीय सरकारी कि हैं owed to कार्यक्रम beneficiaries , ऐसे as the सोशल सुरक्षा विश्वास निधि  .
Debt held by government accounts  represents the संचयी surpluses , सहित ब्याज आय  , of these accounts that have been invested in Treasury securities .
Public  कर्ज़ increases or decreases as a परिणाम of the सालाना  unified budget deficit or surplus .
The federal government budget deficit or surplus is the difference between  सरकारी रसीदें और बिता , ignoring intra-governmental  transfers .
However , some  बिता कि is excluded इससे the deficit ( supplemental appropriations  ) also adds to the debt .
Historically , the US  पब्लिक कर्ज़ as a share of जीडीपी increased दौरान युद्धों  and recessions , and subsequently declined .
For example , debt held by the public as a share of GDP peaked just  बाद संसार युद्ध ii ( 113 % of जीडीपी in 1945 ) , लकिन तब गिरी  over the following 30 years .
In recent decades , however , large  बजट deficits और the resulting increases in कर्ज़ have led to चिंता परिचय the long-term स्थिरता of  the federal government 's fiscal policies .
On 2  अप्रैल 2013 , कर्ज़ आयोजित by the पब्लिक थी लगभग  $ 11.959 trillion or about 75 % of GDP .
Intragovernmental holdings  stood at $ 4.846 खरब , giving a संयुक्त कुल पब्लिक कर्ज़ of $ 16.805  trillion .
As of January 2013 , $ 5.6 trillion or approximately 47 % of the debt held by the public was owned by foreign investors , the largest  of जिससे यहूद the लोगों 's गणतंत्र of चीन और जापानी at बस over $ 1.1 खरब  each .
In basketball , an  assist is attributed to a खिलाड़ी जो गुजरता the बॉल to a  teammate in a way that leads to a score by field goal , meaning that he or she was `` assisting '' in the basket .
There is some judgment involved in deciding  whether a passer चाहिए be credited साथ  an assist .
An assist can be  scored लिये the passer भी if the  player who receives the pass makes a basket after dribbling the ball .
However , the original definition of an assist did not include  ऐसे परिस्थितियों , so the तुलना of assist आंकडे आरपार eras is a जटिल  matter .
Only the pass  सीधे पहले the स्कोर may be गिने as an assist , so no अधिक than एक assist can be अंकित प्रति फ़ील्ड लक्ष्य  ( unlike in other sports , such as ice hockey ) .
A pass that leads to a  शूटिंग बेईमानी और स्कोरिंग by फ़्री throws करता नहीं गिनती as an assist in the एनबीए , लकिन करता in fiba खेल ( तभी एक assist is awarded  per set of free throws in which at least one free throw is made ) .
Point guards tend to get the most assists per game ( apg ) , as  उनके भूमिका is primarily कि of a  passer and ballhandler .
Centers tend  to मिलेंगी कम assists , लकिन centers साथ शुभ मंजिल उपस्थिति और  court vision can dominate a team by assisting .
Being inside the key , the center often has the best  कोण और the बेहतरीन स्थिति लिये `` बर्तन '' और अन्य  short passes in the scoring area .
Center Wilt Chamberlain  led the एनबीए in assists  in 1968 .
A strong center with  inside-scoring prowess , ऐसे as पूर्व एनबीए बीच hakeem olajuwon , can भी be an प्रभावी assistor क्युकी  the defense 's double-teaming tends to open up offense in the form of shooters .
The NBA single-game assist record is 30 , held by Scott Skiles  of the ऑरलैंडो जादू विरूद्ध the डेनवर टेंडर्स ,  on December 30 , 1990 .
The NBA  रिकार्ड लिये सबसे करियर assists is आयोजित by  John Stockton with 15,806 .
The mill or mille ( ) ( sometimes mil in the UK  , जब discussing प्रॉपर्टी कर in the संयुक्त राज्य , or previously in साइप्रस और माल्टा ) is a now-abstract  unit of currency used sometimes in accounting .
In the United States , it is a  notional ईकाई समतुल्य to of a संयुक्त राज्य डालर ( a  tenth of a cent ) .
in the संयुक्त किंगडम it थी प्रस्तावित दौरान the दशकों of चर्चा on  the decimalization of the pound as a division of the pound sterling .
Several  अन्य मुद्राएँ प्रयुक्त the मिल  , such as the Maltese lira .
The term  आता इससे the लैटिन `` millesimum '' , अर्थ ``  thousandth part '' .
The Greco-Persian Wars ( also often  पुकारा the पारसी युद्धों ) यहूद a श्रेणी of विरोध between the हख़ामनी साम्राज्य of फारस और city-states  of the Hellenic world that started in 499 BC and lasted until 449 BC .
The  टक्कर between the fractious राजनैतिक संसार of the यूनानियों और the विशाल साम्राज्य of  the Persians began when Cyrus the Great conquered Ionia in 547 BC .
Struggling to rule the  independent-minded शहरों of ionia , the फारसियों  appointed tyrants to rule each of them .
This would prove to  be the सोर्स of much ट्रबल लिये the यूनानियों  and Persians alike .
In  499 bc , the तब tyrant of miletus , aristagoras , embarked on an expedition to जीतें the द्वीप of naxos , साथ पारसी support ; however , the  expedition was a debacle and , pre-empting his dismissal , Aristagoras incited all of Hellenic Asia Minor into rebellion against the Persians .
This was the beginning of the Ionian Revolt , which would  पिछला जबतक 493 bc , progressively आरेखण अधिक regions of एशिया  Minor into the conflict .
Aristagoras secured military  support इससे एथेंस और eretria , और in 498  BC these forces helped to capture and burn the Persian regional capital of Sardis .
The Persian king Darius the Great vowed  to have बदला on एथेंस और eretria  for this act .
the विद्रोह जारी , साथ the दो पहलू  effectively stalemated throughout 497–495 BC .
In 494 BC , the Persians regrouped ,  और attacked the epicentre of  the revolt in Miletus .
At the Battle of Lade , the Ionians suffered a decisive defeat , and the rebellion collapsed ,  साथ the फाइनल सदस्यों होने stamped आउट the following  year .
Seeking to secure his empire  इससे further revolts और इससे the हस्तक्षेप of the मेनलैंड यूनानियों  , Darius embarked on a scheme to conquer Greece and to punish Athens and Eretria for burning Sardis .
The first Persian invasion of Greece began in 492 BC , with  the पारसी सामान्य mardonius conquering thrace और macedon पहले अनेक mishaps  forced an early end to the campaign .
In 490 BC a second force was  भेजा to यूनानियों , इस समय आरपार the ईजियन समुद्र , अंतर्गत  the command of Datis and Artaphernes .
This expedition subjugated  the cyclades , पहले besieging , capturing और  razing Eretria .
However , while en  रूट to आक्रमण एथेंस , the पारसी फ़ोर्स थी decisively पराजित by the athenians  at the Battle of Marathon , ending Persian efforts for the time being .
Darius then began to plan to  पूरा the conquest of यूनानियों , लकिन died in 486 bc और जिम्मेदारी  for the conquest passed to his son Xerxes I .
in 480 bc , xerxes personally led the दूसरी पारसी आक्रमण  of Greece with one of the largest ancient armies ever assembled .
Victory over the 'Allied ' Greek states ( led by  स्पार्टा और एथेंस ) at the बैटल of thermopylae अनुमत the फारसियों to मशाल एथेंस और overrun  most of Greece .
However , while seeking to destroy the combined Greek fleet  , the फारसियों suffered a कठोर  defeat at the Battle of Salamis .
The following year , the confederated Greeks went on the offensive ,  defeating the पारसी फौज at the बैटल of plataea , और समाप्ति the आक्रमण  of Greece .
The allied  यूनानियों followed up उनके कामयाबी by destroying the बाकी of the पारसी बेड़े at the बैटल of mycale , पहले  expelling Persian garrisons from Sestos ( 479 BC ) and Byzantium ( 478 BC ) .
The actions of the general Pausanias at the siege of Byzantium alienated many of the Greek states from the Spartans , and the anti-Persian alliance was therefore  reconstituted around athenian नेतृत्व , as the so-called delian लीग  .
The  delian लीग जारी to अभियान विरूद्ध फारस लिये the अगला तीन दशकों , शुरूआत  with the expulsion of the remaining Persian garrisons from Europe .
At the Battle of the Eurymedon in  466 bc , the लीग जीती a दोगुना विजय कि  finally secured freedom for the cities of Ionia .
However , the League 's involvement in an Egyptian revolt ( from 460–454 BC ) resulted in a disastrous defeat ,  और further campaigning थी निलंबित  .
A fleet was sent to Cyprus in 451 BC , but  हासिल छोटी , और जब it withdrew the greco-persian युद्धों खींचा to a शांत समाप्त  .
Some historical sources suggest the end of hostilities was marked by a peace  सन्धि between एथेंस और फारस , the so-called सलाम of callias  .
hooverville निकट  Portland , Oregon
A `` Hooverville '' is the popular name for  shanty कस्बों निर्मित by बेघर लोगों दौरान the ग्रेट अवसाद  .
They were named after Herbert Hoover  , जो थी अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य दौरान  the onset of the Depression and widely blamed for it .
the पद थी coined by चार्ल्स माइकेल्सन , publicity मुख्य  of the Democratic National Committee .
Matthew Michael Hasselbeck ( born  सितंबर 25 , 1975 ) is an अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल क्वार्टरबैक लिये the इंडियानापोलिस  Colts of the National Football League ( NFL ) .
He was drafted in the sixth round of  the 1998 एनएफएल ड्राफ्ट by the ग्रीन खाड़ी पैकर्स  .
बाद a ऋतु on the अभ्यास स्क्वाड और दो सीज़न बैकिंग  up Brett Favre , he was traded to the Seattle Seahawks in 2001 .
hasselbeck gained the starting भूमिका in 2003 , और led सिएटल to छह playoff दिखावे और a सुपर कटोरी  appearance ; he was selected to three Pro Bowls and an All-Pro selection .
Following ten seasons with the  सीहॉक्स , hasselbeck joined the टेनेसी टाइटन्स  in 2011 .
Hasselbeck then signed a contract with the Indianapolis Colts in 2013  कम than 24 घंटों बाद होने released  by the Tennessee Titans .
ICT is inevitably  सम्बन्धित to the कंप्यूटर संजाल  .
Information and Communications Technology or ( ICT ) , is often used as an  विस्तारित पर्याय लिये सूचना प्रौद्योगिकी ( it ) , लकिन is a अधिक विशिष्ट पद कि तनावों the भूमिका of एकीकृत संचार और the संयोजन of दूरसंचार ( टेलीफोन लाइनों और बेतार सिग्नल ) , कंप्यूटर as खूब as जरुरी  enterprise software , middleware , storage , and audio-visual systems , which enable users to access , store , transmit , and manipulate information .
The phrase ICT had been used by academic researchers since the 1980s , but it became popular  बाद it थी प्रयुक्त in a रपट to the uk सरकारी by डेनिस stevenson in 1997 और in the संशोधित नेशनल curriculum लिये इंग्लैण्ड , वेल्स  and Northern Ireland in 2000 .
The term ICT is now also used to refer to the convergence of audio-visual and telephone networks  साथ कंप्यूटर संजाल through a सिंगल cabling or कड़ी प्रणाली  .
There are large economic incentives ( huge cost savings due to elimination of the telephone network ) to merge the audio-visual ,  भवन प्रबन्धन और टेलीफोन संजाल साथ the कंप्यूटर संजाल प्रणाली using a सिंगल एकीकृत प्रणाली of cabling , सिग्नल वितरण और प्रबन्धन  .
The term Infocommunications is used in some cases as  a shorter रूप of सूचना और संचार ( s ) प्रौद्योगिकी  .
In fact Infocommunications is the expansion of telecommunications with information processing  और सामग्री हैंडलिंग कृत्यों on a आम डिजिटल प्रौद्योगिकी  base .
For a  तुलना of ये और अन्य शर्तें  , see .
For ICT Development  अनुक्रमणिका around the संसार , देखिए  .
This is a list of  वर्ण इससे जार्ज लोपेज़  .
A schematic presentation of  the प्लम खीर मॉडल of the अणु ; in thomson 's गणितीय मॉडल the `` corpuscles '' ( or  modern electrons ) were arranged non-randomly , in rotating rings
The current  मॉडल of the sub-atomic ढांचा involves a  dense nucleus surrounded by a probabilistic `` cloud '' of electrons
The plum pudding model of the atom by  J. J. thomson , जो खोजा the इलेक्ट्रॉन in 1897 , थी प्रस्तावित  in 1904 before the discovery of the atomic nucleus in order to add the electron to the atomic model .
In this model , the atom is composed of  electrons ( जिससे thomson स्टिल पुकारा `` corpuscles '' , हालांकि G. J. stoney था प्रस्तावित कि अणु of विद्युत be पुकारा electrons in 1894 )  surrounded by a soup of positive charge to balance the electrons ' negative charges , like negatively charged `` plums `` surrounded by positively charged `` pudding `` .
The  electrons ( as we जान उन्हें आज ) यहूद विचार to be positioned throughout the अणु , लकिन साथ  many structures possible for positioning multiple electrons , particularly rotating rings of electrons ( see below ) .
बजाय of a सूप , the अणु थी भी sometimes  said to have had a `` cloud '' of positive charge .
With this model , Thomson abandoned his  पहले `` nebular अणु '' परिकल्पना in जिससे the अणु थी रचित  of immaterial vortices .
Now , at least part of the atom was to be composed of Thomson 's particulate negative corpuscles , although the rest of the positively  चार्ज भाग of the अणु remained somewhat nebulous  and ill-defined .
The 1904  thomson मॉडल थी disproved by the 1909  gold foil experiment of Hans Geiger and Ernest Marsden .
This was  interpreted by अर्नेस्ट रदरफोर्ड  in 1911
to imply a very small nucleus of the atom  containing a बहुत ऊँची धनात्मक चार्ज ( in the मामला of सुनहरा , पर्याप्त to संतुलन परिचय 100 electrons ) ,  thus leading to the Rutherford model of the atom .
Although gold has an  परमाणु क्रमांक of 79 , तत्काल बाद रदरफोर्ड 's पेपर appeared in 1911 antonius वैन  den Broek made the intuitive suggestion that atomic number is nuclear charge .
The matter  जरूरी प्रयोग  to decide .
Henry Moseley 's work showed experimentally in 1913 ( see Moseley 's law ) that the  प्रभावी नाभिकीय चार्ज थी बहुत बंद to the परमाणु क्रमांक ( moseley मिला तभी एक ईकाई अंतर  ) , and Moseley referenced only the papers of Van den Broek and Rutherford .
This work culminated in the solar-system-like ( but quantum-limited ) Bohr model of the atom in the same year , in which a nucleus containing an  परमाणु क्रमांक of धनात्मक चार्ज is घिरी by an बराबर क्रमांक of electrons  in orbital shells .
Bohr  था भी प्रेरित moseley  's work .
thomson 's मॉडल थी compared ( हालांकि नहीं by thomson  ) to a British dessert called plum pudding , hence the name .
thomson 's पेपर थी प्रकाशित in the कूच 1904 संस्करण of the philosophical पत्रिका  , the leading British science journal of the day .
In  thomson 's दृश्य : ... the अणु of the तत्व consist of a क्रमांक of negatively electrified  corpuscles enclosed in a sphere of uniform positive electrification , ...
In this model , the electrons were  फ़्री to घूर्णन भीतर the blob or बादल of धनात्मक  substance .
These orbits were stabilized  in the मॉडल by the फैक्ट कि जब an इलेक्ट्रॉन स्थानांतरित दूर इससे the बीच of the धनात्मक बादल , it लगा a larger जाल  positive inward force , because there was more material of opposite charge , inside its orbit ( see Gauss 's law ) .
In Thomson 's model , electrons were free to rotate in rings which were further stabilized by interactions between the electrons , and spectra were to be accounted for  by उर्जा मतभेद of  different ring orbits .
Thomson attempted to make his model account for some of the major spectral lines known for some  तत्व , लकिन थी नहीं notably कामयाब at इस  .
Still , Thomson 's model ( along with a similar Saturnian ring model for  परमाणु electrons , भी put आगे in 1904 by nagaoka बाद जेम्स क्लर्क मैक्सवेल 's मॉडल of शनि 's बजती ) , यहूद  earlier harbingers of the later and more successful solar-system-like Bohr model of the atom .
ठेठ स्ट्रिप  of bacon .
Bacon  is a cured मांस  prepared from a pig .
It is first cured using large quantities of salt , either in a  brine or in a शुष्क पैकिंग ; the परिणाम is भैस बेकन ( भी  known as green bacon ) .
Fresh bacon may then be further dried for weeks or months in  ठंडा एयर , or it may be boiled or स्मोक्ड  .
Fresh and  सूखी बेकन is typically  cooked before eating .
boiled बेकन is तैयार to खा , as is कुछ स्मोक्ड बेकन , लकिन may  be cooked further before eating .
Bacon is prepared from several  अलग कटौती of मांस  .
It is usually made from side and back cuts of  पोर्क , मगर in the संयुक्त राज्य , जहाँ it is लगभग सदा prepared इससे पोर्क पेट ( typically referred to as `` streaky '' , `` वसीय '' , or ``  American style '' outside of the US and Canada ) .
The side cut has more  मांस और कम मोटे  than the belly .
Bacon may be prepared from either of two distinct back cuts :  fatback , जिससे is लगभग pure मोटे , और पोर्क loin  , which is very lean .
bacon-cured पोर्क loin is ज्ञात  as back bacon .
Uncooked pork  पेट बेकन स्ट्रिप्स  .
Bacon may be  खाया स्मोक्ड , boiled , fried , baked ,  or grilled , or used as a minor ingredient to flavor dishes .
Bacon is also used for  barding और larding roasts ,  especially game , e.g . venison , pheasant .
The word is derived  इससे the बूढ़ा ऊँची जर्मनी bacho , अर्थ `` buttock '' , `` हैम '' or `` पक्ष  of bacon '' , and cognate with the Old French bacon .
In continental Europe , this part of the pig is usually not smoked like bacon is in the United States ; it is  प्रयुक्त primarily in घन ( lardons ) as a कुकिंग संघटक , valued दोनो as a सोर्स of मोटे  and for its flavor .
In Italy , this is called  pancetta और is प्रायः पकाया in छोटी घन or परोसा uncooked  and thinly sliced as part of an antipasto .
Meat from other animals ,  ऐसे as बीफ , मेमने , मुर्गा , बकरी , or तुर्कों , may भी be काटें , cured  , or otherwise prepared to resemble bacon , and may even be referred to as `` bacon '' .
Such use is common  in क्षेत्रों साथ significant यहूदी और मुस्लिम  populations .
The USDA defines  बेकन as `` the cured पेट of a स्वाइन carcass '' ; अन्य कटौती  and characteristics must be separately qualified ( e.g. , `` smoked pork loin bacon '' ) .
For safety , bacon must be treated to prevent trichinosis ,  caused by trichinella , a parasitic roundworm  which can be destroyed by heating , freezing , drying , or smoking .
Bacon  is विशिष्ट इससे नमक  pork and ham by differences in the brine ( or dry packing ) .
Bacon brine has added curing ingredients , most notably sodium nitrite , and occasionally sodium nitrate or potassium nitrate ( saltpeter  ) ; सोडियम ascorbate or erythorbate हैं added to accelerate curing और stabilize  color .
flavorings ऐसे as भूरा शुगर or  maple are used for some products .
If used , sodium  polyphosphates हैं added to improve sliceability और reduce  spattering when the bacon is pan fried .
Today , a  brine लिये हैम , लकिन नहीं बेकन , शामिल  a large amount of sugar .
Historically , `` ham '' and  `` बेकन '' referred to अलग कटौती of मांस कि यहूद brined  or packed identically , often together in the same barrel .
The Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ( ERISA ) ( , codified in part at ) is a federal law which establishes  न्यूनतम मानकों लिये पेंशन योजनाएँ in निजी उद्योग और provides लिये extensive नियम  on the federal income tax effects of transactions associated with employee benefit plans .
ERISA was enacted to protect the interests of employee  लाभ योजना भागीदार और उनके beneficiaries  by:
Requiring the  प्रकटीकरण of वित्तीय और अन्य सूचना  concerning the plan to beneficiaries ;
establishing मानकों of conduct  for plan fiduciaries ;
Providing for  उचित remedies और  access to the federal courts .
ERISA is sometimes used to refer to the full  देह of कानून regulating कर्मचारी लाभ योजनाएँ , जिससे हैं मिला  mainly in the Internal Revenue Code and ERISA itself .
Responsibility for the interpretation and enforcement of ERISA  is विभाजित among the विभाग of मजदूर , the विभाग of the राजकोष ( विशेषकर the आतंरिक आय  Service ) , and the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation .
Illegal immigration to the United States is  the अधिनियम of विदेशी नागरिकों प्रवेश the संयुक्त राज्य , बगैर सरकारी अनुमति और in उल्लंघन  of United States nationality law , or staying beyond the termination date of a visa , also in violation of the law .
A warning sign at the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय boundary between  the United States and Canada in Point Roberts , Washington .
a much अलग दृष्टिकोण  at the U.S.-Mexico border near El Paso , Texas
The undocumented  अप्रवासी जनसांख्यिकी of the संयुक्त राज्य in 2008 थी अनुमानित by the बीच लिये आव्रजन  Studies to be about 11 million people , down from 12.5 million people in 2007 .
Other estimates  दायरा इससे  7 to 20 million .
According to a 2005 Pew Hispanic Center  रपट , 56 % of undocumented आप्रवासियों यहूद इससे मैक्सिको ; 22 % यहूद इससे अन्य लैटिन अमरीकी  countries ; 13 % were from Asia ; 6 % were from Europe and Canada ; and 3 % were from Africa and the rest of the world .
Alvin  स्वतंत्र स्कूल ज़िला is a  school district based in Alvin , Texas ( USA ) .
एल्विन isd is a विशाल suburban स्कूल ज़िला दक्षिण of ह्यूस्टन in the  communities of Alvin , Manvel , Pearland , Hillcrest , Rosharon , Iowa Colony , Liverpool , and Amsterdam .
AISD serves Pearland city  's rapidly growing पश्चिमी portion of the नगर सहित the नई विशाल master-planned समुदायों  of Shadow Creek Ranch , South Fork , and Southern Trails .
Alvin  isd कवर  of land .
In  इंसान anatomy , the ulnar  nerve is a nerve which runs near the ulna bone .
The ulnar  collateral स्नायु of कोहनी संयुक्त is in संबंध साथ  the ulnar nerve .
The nerve is the largest  unprotected तंत्रिका in the इंसान देह ( अर्थ unprotected  by muscle or bone ) , so injury is common .
This nerve is directly connected to the little finger , and the adjacent half of the ring finger , supplying the palmar  पक्ष of ये उंगलियाँ , सहित दोनो सामने और वापस of the नुस्ख़े , शायद as दूर वापस as the fingernail  beds .
One method of injuring the  तंत्रिका is to स्ट्राइक the medial epicondyle of the humerus  from posteriorly , or inferiorly with the elbow flexed .
The ulnar nerve is trapped between the bone and the  overlying स्किन at इस पाइंट  .
This is commonly referred to as bumping one 's  `` मजेदार अस्थि ''  .
This name is  विचार to be a pun , आधारित on the ध्वनि प्रतिरूप between the नाम  of the bone of the upper arm , the `` humerus `` and the word `` humorous `` .
alternatively , according to the ऑक्सफोर्ड अंग्रेज़ी शब्दकोष it may refer to  `` the peculiar sensation experienced when it is struck '' .
Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry , shortened Hogwarts , is a fictional  अंग्रेजों स्कूल of जादू लिये विद्यार्थी aged ग्यारह to  eighteen , and is the primary setting for the first six books in J.K. Rowling 's Harry Potter series .
Rowling has suggested that she may have inadvertently taken the name from the hogwort plant ( Croton capitatus ) , which she had seen at  kew gardens कुछ समय पहले लिखने the श्रेणी , हालांकि the names `` the हॉग्वार्ट्स '' और `` hoggwart '' appear in the 1954 निगेल molesworth  book How To Be Topp by Geoffrey Willans .
Hogwarts school was voted as the 36th best Scottish educational establishment in a 2008  ऑनलाइन रैंकिंग , outranking एडिनबर्ग 's loretto स्कूल  .
According to a director of the  स्वतंत्र स्कूलों संजाल rankings , it थी added to  the schools listing `` for fun '' and was then voted on .
The U.S. subprime  बंधक संकट थी a नियत of कार्यक्रम और शर्तें कि led to a वित्तीय  crisis and subsequent recession that began in 2008 .
It was  characterized by a वृद्धि in subprime बंधक delinquencies और  foreclosures , and the resulting decline of securities backed by said mortgages .
Several major financial institutions collapsed in September 2008 , with  significant disruption in the प्रवाह of क्रेडिट to व्यवसायों  and consumers and the onset of a severe global recession .
There were many causes of the crisis , with commentators  assigning अलग स्तर of दोष to वित्तीय संस्थानों , regulators , क्रेडिट एजेंसियों , सरकारी आवास नीतियों  , and consumers , among others .
A proximate cause  थी the वृद्धि in subprime  lending .
The percentage of lower-quality subprime mortgages originated during a  दिए साल रोज़ इससे the ऐतिहासिक 8 % or निम्नतर दायरा to लगभग 20 % इससे 2004 to 2006 , साथ much उच्चतर ratios  in some parts of the U.S .
A high percentage of these  subprime mortgages , over 90 % in 2006 लिये उदाहरण  , were adjustable-rate mortgages .
These two changes were part of a broader trend of lowered  lending मानकों और higher-risk बंधक  products .
Further , U.S. households had become increasingly indebted  , साथ the अनुपात of कर्ज़ to डिस्पोजेबल निजी आय उठती  from 77 % in 1990 to 127 % at the end of 2007 , much of this increase mortgage-related .
When U.S. home prices declined steeply after  peaking in mid-2006 , borrowers ' क्षमता to पुनर्वित्त उनके लोन became  more difficult .
As adjustable-rate mortgages  began to रीसेट at उच्चतर ब्याज दरों ( causing उच्चतर  monthly payments ) , mortgage delinquencies soared .
प्रतिभूति समर्थित साथ mortgages , सहित subprime mortgages  , widely held by financial firms globally , lost most of their value .
Global investors also  drastically घटाया purchases of mortgage-backed कर्ज़ और अन्य प्रतिभूति  as part of a decline in the capacity and willingness of the private financial system to support lending .
Concerns  परिचय the soundness of u.S. क्रेडिट और वित्तीय बाज़ार led  to tightening credit around the world and slowing economic growth in the U.S. and Europe .
The crisis had severe , long-lasting  consequences लिये the u.S. और यूरोपीय  economies .
The U.S. entered a deep recession , with nearly 9  लाख कार्य खोया दौरान 2008 और 2009 , roughly  6 % of the workforce .
U.S. housing prices fell nearly 30 % on  औसत और the u.S. भण्डार मार्केट गिरी लगभग  50 % by early 2009 .
As of early 2013 , the U.S. stock market had recovered to its pre-crisis  शिखर लकिन आवास कीमतें remained निकट उनके कम पाइंट और बेरोजगारी  remained elevated .
Economic  विकास remained नीचे pre-crisis  levels .
Europe also continued to struggle with its  अपना आर्थिक संकट  .
Carl  जंग in 1910  .
मायर्स और briggs extrapolated उनके mbti  theory from Jung 's writings in his book Psychological Types .
The Myers-Briggs Type Indicator ( MBTI ) assessment is a  psychometric प्रश्नावली designed to माप मनोवैज्ञानिक  preferences in how people perceive the world and make decisions .
ये वरीयताओं यहूद extrapolated इससे the typological theories प्रस्तावित by कार्ल गुस्ताव  Jung and first published in his 1921 book Psychological Types ( English edition , 1923 ) .
Jung theorized that there are four principal psychological functions by which we experience the world :  सनसनी , अंतर्ज्ञान , अहसास , और सोच  .
One of these  चार कृत्यों is प्रबल  most of the time .
The  असली डेवलपर of the व्यक्तित्व inventory यहूद katharine कुक briggs और उसके बेटी , इसाबेल briggs मायर्स  ; these two , having studied extensively the work of Jung , turned their interest of human behavior into a devotion of turning the theory of psychological types to practical use .
They began creating the  indicator दौरान संसार युद्ध ii , believing कि a ज्ञान of व्यक्तित्व वरीयताओं  would help women who were entering the industrial workforce for the first time to identify the sort of war-time jobs that would be `` most comfortable and effective '' .
The initial questionnaire grew into the  myers-briggs प्रकार indicator , जिससे थी पहला  published in 1962 .
The  mbti focuses on सामान्य populations और emphasizes  the value of naturally occurring differences .
Robert Kaplan and Dennis Saccuzzo believe `` the underlying  assumption of the mbti is कि we सब have विशिष्ट वरीयताओं in the रास्ता we construe हमारी  experiences , and these preferences underlie our interests , needs , values , and motivation '' ( p. 499 ) .
`` Judas ''  is a सोंग by अमरीकी रिकॉर्डिंग कलाकार महिला गागा  , from her second studio album Born This Way ( 2011 ) .
It  थी released by interscope रिकॉर्ड on अप्रैल 15  , 2011 , four days ahead of its scheduled release .
Written and produced by  महिला गागा और redone , `` यहूदा '' is a नृत्य और इलेक्ट्रो हाउस सोंग  about a woman in love with a man who betrayed her .
It embodies the  incidents कि have haunted गागा in the पास्ट ,  and its core meaning refers to the negative parts of her life that she ca n't escape .
Gaga has further explained that the song was  भी परिचय honoring एक 's भीतरी अंधेरा in अनुक्रम  to bring oneself into the light .
the कलाकृति लिये the सिंगल थी  designed by Gaga in Microsoft Word .
In spite of a polarizing impact on several religious groups , the song was generally well received by  आलोचकों , जो likened the सोंग to `` ख़राब रोमांस `` साथ कुछ noting it चाहिए  have been the album 's lead single .
The song has a similar sound to Gaga 's previous RedOne-produced tracks , including `` Poker Face `` ,  `` lovegame `` , `` ख़राब रोमांस '' , और `` alejandro  `` .
It contains three distinct  hooks और a हाउस -influenced ब्रेक  down .
Gaga explained  कि the लाइनों बोला दौरान the विश्लेषण बात परिचय उसके as परे मोचन ,  regarding the traditional views of what a woman should be .
`` Judas '' initially had a strong sales  खोलने , लकिन थी कम कामयाब commercially in  comparison to Gaga 's previous singles .
The song reached the  शीर्ष टेन of the चार्ट in सबसे प्रमुख म्यूज़िक  markets , and also reached the top of the charts in South Korea .
A music video for the song was filmed in April 2011 , co-directed  by गागा और laurieann गिब्सन और co-starring नॉर्मन reedus  .
It  रै a biblical कथानक जहाँ reedus  played Judas Iscariot and Gaga played Mary Magdalene .
The video portrays them as  आधुनिक दिन प्रचारकों going to जेरूसलम  .
It included the Biblical story of Judas betraying Jesus , and  ended साथ गागा as magdalene getting stoned to मौत  .
Before its release , the Catholic League condemned Gaga  लिये the कथित उपयोग of धार्मिक imagery और उसके भूमिका  in the video .
However , critics generally praised the video ,  नहीं ढूंढना कोई अप्रिय सामग्री  .
The video was  मनोनीत लिये दो पुरस्कार at the 2011 एमटीवी वीडियो  Music Awards .
Gaga has performed `` Judas '' on a number of television shows , including The Graham  नॉर्टन दिखाएँ , शनिवार रात्रि सजीव , शुभ morning americas `` गर्मियाँ कॉन्सर्ट श्रेणी '' , the फ्रेंच x फ़ैक्टर as  well as on The Ellen DeGeneres Show .
Marvin Gaye (  अप्रैल 2 , 1939april 1 , 1984 ) , born मारविन pentz gay , jr. , थी an अमरीकी  singer-songwriter and musician .
Gaye helped to shape the sound of  motown रिकॉर्ड in the 1960s साथ a स्ट्रिंग of हिट्स सहित `` कैसा मीठी it is ( to be loved by तुम ) `` और `` i सुना it through the grapevine `` और duet रिकार्डिंग साथ मरियम कुएं और tammi terrell , बाद कमाई the  titles `` Prince of Motown '' and `` Prince of Soul '' .
During the 1970s , Gaye recorded the concept albums What 's Going On and Let 's  मिलेंगी it on और became among the पहला कलाकारों in motown to ब्रेक दूर इससे the बागडोर of इसके  production company .
Gaye 's  बाद रिकार्डिंग बहकावे अनेक r & b subgenres  such as quiet storm and neo-soul .
Following a period in Europe under a tax exile in the early 1980s  , gaye released the 1982 ग्रैमी award-winning hit `` यौन healing `` और the मध्यरात्रि  Love album .
Since his death in 1984 , Gaye  रै महरूम मरणोपरांत सम्मानित by अनेक संस्थानों , सहित the  Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award and the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame .
The Academy Award for Best Picture is one of the Academy Awards of Merit presented annually by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and  sciences ( ampas ) to निर्माता working in the गति चित्र उद्योग और is the तभी श्रेणी in जिससे प्रत्येक सदस्य  is eligible to nominate for .
Best Picture is considered the most important of the Academy Awards , as it  represents सब the directing , एक्टिंग , म्यूज़िक composing , लिखने , संपादन और  other efforts put forth into a film .
Consequently ,  बेहतरीन चित्र is the फाइनल पुरस्कार और the निष्कर्ष  of the annual Academy Awards ceremony .
The Grand Staircase  कालम at the dolby थिएटर in लॉस एंजिल्स , जहाँ the अकादमी पुरस्कार ceremonies have  been held since 2002 , showcase every film that has won the Best Picture title since the award 's inception 85 years ago .
भारी बरसात is an इंटरैक्टिव नाटक action-adventure वीडियो खेल निर्मित by  French developer Quantic Dream exclusively for the PlayStation 3 .
the खेल is लिखा और निर्देशित by quantic  Dream 's founder and CEO David Cage .
Heavy Rains story is a dramatic thriller modelled after film noir , featuring four  protagonists शामिल साथ the रहस्य of the origami कातिल , a सीरियल कातिल जो उपयोग  extended periods of rainfall to drown his victims .
Ethan Mars is trying to save his son from being the next victim , while investigative journalist  मैडिसन paige , एफबीआई profiler नॉर्मन jayden , और निजी जासूस स्कॉट शेल्बी हैं प्रत्येक trying to track bas clues  to the Origami Killer 's identity .
The player interacts with the game by performing actions highlighted on screen related to  motions on the नियंत्रक , और in कुछ मामले , performing a श्रेणी of जल्दी समय कार्यक्रम  during fast-paced action sequences .
The player 's decisions and  क्रियाएँ दौरान the खेल होगा affect the कथा  .
The main characters can  be मारे , और निश्चित क्रियाएँ may सीसे to अलग  scenes and endings .
A playable demo was  released on 11  February 2010 .
The demo was released prior to  इस तिथि लिये लोगों जो took भाग in  a Four Day Challenge on 5 February 2010 .
A patch to allow use of  the प्लेस्टेशन मूव नियंत्रक  to play the game was released in September 2010 .
Heavy Rain was critically  acclaimed और रै बेची  over two million copies .
It won 2010 's Game of  the साल इससे सीएनएन और गेमिंग संघ , और बेहतरीन  PS3 Game of 2010 by GameSpy and IGN .
A modified version of the  खेल थी released titled भारी बरसात संस्करण modifiée exclusively  in France , aimed towards a younger audience .
In 2010 , the game was included in the book  1001 वीडियो खेल तुम जरूर खेल  Before You Die .
कुल superannuation उद्योग देनदारी  : members funds and reserves ( A $ millions ) since 1988 .
Annual total  superannuation उद्योग एसेट  growth 1996-2005 .
superannuation in ऑस्ट्रेलिया refers to the इंतजाम जिससे लोगों मेक  in Australia to have funds available for them in retirement .
In Australia  , superannuation इंतजाम हैं government-supported और प्रोत्साहित , और  minimum provisions are compulsory for employees .
For example , employers are required to pay a proportion of an employee 's salaries and  मजदूरी ( फिलहाल 9 % ) into a superannuation निधि , लकिन लोगों हैं प्रोत्साहित to put aside अतिरिक्त  funds into superannuation .
The minimum obligation required by employers is  नियत to बढ़ाएँ to 12 % धीरे stepping  annually from 2013 to 2020 .
An individual can withdraw funds out of a  superannuation निधि जब the व्यक्ति meets एक of the शर्तें  of release contained in Schedule 1 of the Superannuation Industry ( Supervision ) Regulations 1994 .
This is a list of the  वर्ण इससे the अमरीकी comedy-drama टेलीविज़न  series The Game .
Electoral College map showing the results  of the 2012 u.S. अध्यक्षीय चुनाव  .
President Barack Obama ( D - IL ) won the popular vote in 26 states  और the ज़िला of कोलंबिया ( denoted in ब्लू ) to कैप्चर 332  electoral votes .
Former Governor  mitt romney ( r - ma ) जीती the लोकप्रिय vote in 24 राज्य ( denoted in रेड )  to capture 206 electoral votes .
Cartogram representation of the Electoral College vote for the 2012  चुनाव , साथ प्रत्येक वर्गाकार representing एक चुनावी  vote .
The United States Electoral College is the  संस्था कि officially elects the अध्यक्ष और  Vice President of the United States every four years .
The  अध्यक्ष और वाइस अध्यक्ष हैं नहीं  elected directly by the voters .
Instead , they are elected by `` electors ''  जो हैं चुनी by लोकप्रिय vote on a state-by-state  basis .
Electors are apportioned  to प्रत्येक राज्य और the ज़िला of कोलंबिया , लकिन नहीं to territorial possessions of the  United States , such as Puerto Rico and Guam .
The  क्रमांक of निर्वाचक in प्रत्येक राज्य is बराबर to the क्रमांक of  members of Congress to which the state is entitled .
The  twenty-third amendment रै सदा resulted in  the District of Columbia having three electors .
There are 538 electors , based on there  होने 435 प्रतिनिधि और 100 सीनेटरों , प्लस  the three electors from the District of Columbia .
Electors are  pledged to particular अध्यक्षीय और वाइस अध्यक्षीय उम्मीदवार  , though unpledged electors are possible .
In  सब राज्य , मगर maine  and Nebraska , electors are elected on a `` winner-take-all '' basis .
That  is , सब निर्वाचक pledged to the अध्यक्षीय  candidate who wins the most votes in a state become electors for that state .
Maine and Nebraska  उपयोग the `` congressional ज़िला विधि '' , selecting एक elector भीतर प्रत्येक congressional  district by popular vote and selecting the remaining two electors by a statewide popular vote .
Although no elector is required by federal law to honor a  प्रतिज्ञा , वहीँ have तभी महरूम बहुत few अवसरों जब an elector voted contrary  to a pledge .
The Twelfth Amendment specifies how  a अध्यक्ष और वाइस अध्यक्ष हैं निर्वाचित और requires  each elector to cast one vote for President and another vote for Vice President .
Critics argue that the Electoral College is  inherently undemocratic और देता झूले राज्य अनुपातहीन  influence in electing the President and Vice President .
The Electoral College gives a numeric advantage in  the चुनाव of the अध्यक्ष to the छोटी राज्य , as the न्यूनतम क्रमांक of निर्वाचक लिये the छोटी  states is three compared to one for the election of representatives .
On the other  हाथ , the winner-take-all विधि  of voting favors the larger states .
A number of  संवैधानिक amendments have  been proposed seeking to alter the Electoral College or replace it with a direct popular vote .
Barack Hussein Obama II ( ; born August 4 , 1961 ) is the 44th and current President  of the संयुक्त राज्य , the पहला अफ़्रीकी अमरीकी to  hold the office .
Born in Honolulu ,  हवाई , ओबामा is a ग्रैजुएट of कोलंबिया विश्वविद्यालयों  and Harvard Law School , where he was president of the Harvard Law Review .
He was a community organizer  in शिकागो पहले कमाई उसके विधि  degree .
He worked as a civil rights  attorney in शिकागो और सिखाया संवैधानिक विधि at the विश्वविद्यालयों  of Chicago Law School from 1992 to 2004 .
He  परोसा तीन शर्तें representing the 13th  District in the Illinois Senate from 1997 to 2004 , running unsuccessfully for the United States House of Representatives in 2000 .
In 2004 , Obama received national attention during his campaign to represent Illinois in the United States Senate with his victory in  the कूच लोकतांत्रिक पार्टी प्राथमिक , उसके keynote पता at the लोकतांत्रिक नेशनल सम्मेलन in जुलाई , और उसके चुनाव to the सीनेट in  November .
He began his presidential campaign in 2007 , and in 2008 , after a close primary campaign against Hillary Rodham Clinton ,  he जीती sufficient delegates in the लोकतांत्रिक पार्टी primaries to प्राप्त the अध्यक्षीय  nomination .
He then defeated Republican nominee John  मैक्केन in the सामान्य चुनाव , और थी उदघाटन  as president on January 20 , 2009 .
Nine months later , Obama was named  the 2009 नोबेल सलाम पुरस्कार laureate  .
He  थी re-elected अध्यक्ष in नवम्बर 2012 ,  defeating Republican nominee Mitt Romney , and was sworn in for a second term on January 20 , 2013 .
Early in his first term in office , Obama signed into law economic stimulus  विधान in जवाब to the ग्रेट मंदी in the रूप of the अमरीकी रिकवरी और reinvestment अधिनियम of 2009 और the कर राहत , बेरोजगारी बीमे  Reauthorization , and Job Creation Act of 2010 .
अन्य प्रमुख घरेलू पहलों in उसके प्रेसिडेंसी शामिल the रोगी सुरक्षा और सस्ती परवाह  Act , often referred to as `` Obamacare '' ; the Dodd–Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act ; the Do n't Ask , Do n't Tell Repeal Act of 2010 ; the Budget Control Act of 2011 ; and the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 .
In May 2012  , he became the पहला बैठे u.S. अध्यक्ष to सरेआम support same-sex विवाह और in 2013 उसके  administration filed briefs which urged the Supreme Court to rule in favor of same-sex couples in two high-profile cases .
In foreign policy , Obama ended U.S. military involvement in the  इराकी युद्ध , increased troop स्तर in अफगानिस्तान , हस्ताक्षरित the नई प्रारंभ बाहें कंट्रोल सन्धि साथ रूस , ordered u.S.  military involvement in Libya , and ordered the military operation that resulted in the death of Osama bin Laden .
The Honda CBR1100XX  सुपर blackbird थी a होंडा मोटरसाइकिल  made from 1996 to 2007 .
The bike was developed to  चुनौती the कावासाकी निंजा zx-11 as the संसार  's fastest production motorcycle , and Honda succeeded with a top speed of .
दो सालो बाद the शीर्षक passed  to the Suzuki Hayabusa , which reached .
The Blackbird is named after the  लॉकहीड sr-71 , भी a गति रिकार्ड होल्डर  .
Sample  दृश्य of an इलेक्ट्रॉनिक  health record based on images
Sample view of  an इलेक्ट्रॉनिक स्वास्थ्य  record
An  इलेक्ट्रॉनिक स्वास्थ्य रिकार्ड ( ehr ) is an evolving अवधारणा  defined as a systematic collection of electronic health information about individual patients or populations .
It is a  रिकार्ड in डिजिटल स्वरूप कि is theoretically सक्षम of होने साझा आरपार अलग  health care settings .
In some cases this sharing  can occur by रास्ता of network-connected enterprise-wide सूचना प्रणालियों  and other information networks or exchanges .
EHRs may include a range of data , including demographics ,  चिकित्सा इतिहास , दवा और allergies , immunization औकात , प्रयोगशाला परीक्षण परिणाम , radiology  images , vital signs , personal stats like age and weight , and billing information .
The Mariner  up on the mast in a  storm .
One of  the wood-engraved illustrations  by Gustave Doré .
The Rime of the Ancient Mariner ( originally The Rime of the Ancyent Marinere ) is the longest major poem by the  अंग्रेज़ी कवि सैमुएल टेलर कॉलरिज , लिखा in 1797–98 और प्रकाशित in 1798 in the पहला संस्करण of  Lyrical Ballads .
Modern editions use a  बाद संशोधित संस्करण मुद्रित in 1817 कि  featured a gloss .
Along with other poems in Lyrical Ballads , it  थी a सिग्नल शिफ़्ट to आधुनिक काव्य और the शुरूआत of अंग्रेजों रोमांटिक  literature .
A proxy auto-config ( PAC ) file defines  कैसा वेब browsers और अन्य उपयोक्ता एजेंटों can automatically चुनें the उचित प्रॉक्सी सर्वर ( अभिगम  method ) for fetching a given URL .
A PAC file contains a  जावास्क्रिप्ट फलन “findproxyforurl ( url ,  host ) ” .
This function  रिटर्न a स्ट्रिंग साथ एक or अधिक  access method specifications .
These specifications cause the user agent  to उपयोग a particular प्रॉक्सी सर्वर or to  connect directly .
Multiple  विशेषताएँ provide a fall-back जब a प्रॉक्सी fails  to respond .
The browser fetches this  pac संचिका पहले requesting  other URLs .
The URL of  the pac संचिका is either विन्यस्त हस्तचालित or संकल्पित  automatically by the Web Proxy Autodiscovery Protocol .
Zendaya Coleman ( born September 1 , 1996 ) ,  ज्ञात mononymously as zendaya , is an अमरीकी  actress , singer and dancer .
she stars on  the डिज़्नी चैनल sitcom  Shake It Up as Rocky Blue .
She has starred in two films  और निभाई एक of the सीसे भूमिकाएँ in the  film Frenemies as Halley Brandon .
She voiced  फर्न in the pixie खोखला  Games .
She appeared in Good Luck Charlie as Rocky Blue and in a Good Luck Charlie  और शेक it up क्रॉसओवर शीर्षक चार्ली शेक  It Up .
She appeared on PrankStars as herself in the episode `` Walk The Prank '' and on  a.n.t . फार्म as sequoia जोन्स in the एपीसोड `` रचनात्मक  ConsultANT . ''
Zendaya  is भी a संगीतकार  .
She signed  a सौदे साथ हॉलीवुड रिकॉर्ड on अगस्त 8 , 2012 और प्रारंभ  recording songs for her debut album on August 12 , 2012 .
She released a single from an  स्वतंत्र लेबल पुकारा `` swag it आउट `` और another सिंगल साथ बेला thorne पुकारा  `` Watch Me , '' which is featured on the Break It Down album .
On March 20 , 2012 , Zendaya and Bella Thorne  released an एल्बम साथ पुकारा शेक it up : सजीव 2 नृत्य , प्रत्येक have उनके अपना सोंग on it , साथ  with a mash-up of both songs together as one .
On August 21 , 2012 ,  zendaya और बेला thorne released an ep पुकारा  Shake It Up : Made In Japan .
Zendaya has a Christmas song called `` Shake Santa Shake , '' which is on the Disney Channel Holiday Playlist CD  , जिससे थी released on अक्तूबर 2 ,  2012 .
On March 5 , 2013 the  तीसरा शेक it up साउंडट्रैक थी released , हकदार i < 3 नृत्य ; on it , zendaya रै  two songs with Bella - `` Contagious Love '' and `` This Is My Dance Floor '' - as well as one solo song , `` Beat of My Drum . ''
This is a list of airports in Pennsylvania ( a U.S. state  ) , grouped by प्रकार और sorted by स्थान  .
It contains all  public-use और सैन्य एयरपोर्ट in the  state .
Some private-use and former airports may be included where notable , such as airports that were previously  public-use , those साथ वाणिज्यिक enplanements अंकित by the faa or एयरपोर्ट आबंटित an iata  airport code .
iOS ( previously iPhone OS ) is a mobile operating system developed and distributed by Apple Inc .  originally released in 2007 लिये the iphone और ipod टच प्लेटफ़ॉर्म , it रै महरूम विस्तारित  to support other Apple devices such as the iPad and Apple TV .
Unlike  microsoft 's खिड़कियाँ फोन और google 's  Android , Apple does not license iOS for installation on non-Apple hardware .
, Apple 's App Store contained  अधिक than 700,000 आईओएस अनुप्रयोग , जिससे have collectively  been downloaded more than 30 billion times .
It had a 21 % share of the smartphone mobile  ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली इकाई shipped in the चौथी क्वार्टर of 2012 , पीछे तभी  Google 's Android .
In June 2012  , it accounted लिये 65 % of मोबाईल वेब आंकड़ा  consumption ( including use on both the iPod Touch and the iPad ) .
At the half of 2012  , वहीँ यहूद 410 लाख डिवाइस activated  .
According to the special media event held  by ठहराना on सितंबर 12 , 2012 , 400 लाख डिवाइस  have been sold through June 2012 .
The user interface of iOS  is आधारित on the अवधारणा of सीधा हेरफेर , using multi-touch  gestures .
इंटरफ़ेस कंट्रोल तत्व consist  of sliders , switches , and buttons .
Interaction with the OS includes gestures such as swipe , tap , pinch , and reverse pinch , all  of जिससे have विशिष्ट परिभाषाएं भीतर the कॉन्टेक्स्ट of the आईओएस ऑपरेटिंग  system and its multi-touch interface .
Internal accelerometers are used by some applications to  respond to shaking the यंत्र ( एक आम परिणाम is the undo कमांड ) or घूर्णन it in तीन आयाम ( एक आम परिणाम  is switching from portrait to landscape mode ) .
iOS is derived from  os x , साथ जिससे it साझा the डार्विन न्यास  .
iOS is Apple 's mobile version of the OS X  ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली प्रयुक्त on ठहराना कंप्यूटर  .
In iOS , there are  चार abstraction परतों : the कोर os परत , the कोर सेवाएं परत  , the Media layer , and the Cocoa Touch layer .
The current version of the operating system ( iOS 6.1.3 ) dedicates 1-1.5 GB of the device 's flash memory for the  प्रणाली विभाजन , using roughly 800 mb of कि विभाजन ( varying by मॉडल  ) for iOS itself .
आईओएस फिलहाल रनों  on iPhone , iPad , iPod touch and Apple TV .
The Plymouth  superbird is प्रसिद्ध लिये इसके अत्यधिक  high rear wing .
1987 Audi Sport  quattros1 साथ इसके विशाल विंग्स  at Pikes Peak
A spoiler is an automotive  aerodynamic यंत्र जिनकी intended डिज़ाइन फलन is to 'spoil ' प्रतिकूल एयर गति  across a body of a vehicle in motion , usually described as turbulence or drag .
विघ्न on the सामने of a गाडी हैं प्रायः पुकारा एयर dams , क्युकी in जोड to directing  air flow they also reduce the amount of air flowing underneath the vehicle which generally reduces aerodynamic lift and drag .
Spoilers are  प्रायः fitted to रेस और high-performance खेल गाड़ियाँ , हालांकि  they have become common on passenger vehicles as well .
Some spoilers are added to cars primarily for styling  उद्देश्य और have either छोटी aerodynamic लाभ or भी मेक the वायुगतिकी बदतर  .
Spoilers for cars are often  incorrectly उलझन साथ , or the पद प्रयुक्त interchangeably  with , wings .
Automotive wings  हैं डिवाइस जिनकी intended डिज़ाइन is to generate downforce as एयर  passes around them , not simply disrupt existing airflow patterns .
Mario , who serves as Nintendo 's mascot , is a fictional  अक्षर निर्मित by खेल पंक्तियां शिगेरू miyamoto और voiced  by Charles Martinet .
This is a list of video games where the character Mario plays  a भाग , either as the समर्थक , विपक्षी , supporting  character , as part of an ensemble cast , as a cameo , or in a game within a game .
It does not include simple references to the character , such as the portraits of Mario found  in the लेजेंड of zelda : a कड़ी  to the Past .
The year indicated is the year the game was first  released , सबसे commonly in जापानी ; खेल यहूद sometimes  released years later in other regions of the world .
The list  शामिल पोर्ट , remakes  and compilations .
It does  n't शामिल कोई आभासी  Console re-releases .
`` Man of Constant Sorrow '' ( also known as `` I  am a man of निरंतर विषाद '' ) is a परंपरागत अमरीकी लोक सोंग पहला अंकित by लंड  Burnett , a partially blind fiddler from Kentucky .
The song was originally recorded by Burnett as  `` विदाई सोंग '' मुद्रित in a रिचर्ड burnett songbook  , circa 1913 .
An early  संस्करण थी अंकित by emry आर्थर in 1928 ( vocalion  Vo 5208 ) .
Public interest  in the सोंग थी नवीनीकृत बाद the रिलीज of the 2000 फिल्मी  O Brother , Where Art Thou ?
, as it plays a सेंट्रल  role in the film 's plot .
The song was also  शामिल in the फिल्मी 's अत्यधिक कामयाब , multiple-platinum  selling soundtrack .
Josephson junction array chip developed by the  नेशनल ब्यूरो of मानकों as a  standard volt
The volt ( symbol : V ) is the SI derived unit for  इलेक्ट्रिक संभावित ( वोल्टेज ) , इलेक्ट्रिक संभावित अंतर  , and electromotive force .
The volt is named in honor of the Italian physicist  alessandro volta ( 1745–1827 ) , जो invented the वोल्टायिक pile  , possibly the first chemical battery .
A plaque commemorating the location of the  साराजेवो हत्या और कदम of gavrilo princip ( चित्र लिया in 1987 , पहले कदम यहूद  removed in 1992 and plaque changed from Cyrillic to Latin script )
A  प्लैक commemorating the स्थान  of the Sarajevo assassination ( image taken in 2009 )
On 28 June 1914 , Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria , heir presumptive to  the austro-hungarian सिंहासन , और उसके बीवी , सोफी , duchess of hohenberg , यहूद शॉट मुर्दे in साराजेवो ,  by Gavrilo Princip , one of a group of six Bosnian Serb assassins coordinated by Danilo Ilić .
The political objective of the assassination was to break off Austria-Hungary 's  south-slav प्रांतों so वे could be संयुक्त into a वृहद सर्बिया or a यूगोस्लाविया  .
The assassins ' motives were consistent with the movement that  बाद became ज्ञात as यंग बोस्निया  .
सर्बियाई सैन्य अधिकारियों  stood behind the attack .
At the top of these Serbian military conspirators was Chief of Serbian Military  प्रज्ञा dragutin dimitrijević , उसके righthand man प्रमुख vojislav tankosić , और masterspy  Rade Malobabić .
Major Tankosić armed the assassins with bombs and  pistols और प्रशिक्षित उन्हें .
The assassins were given access to the same clandestine tunnel of safe-houses  और एजेंटों कि rade malobabić प्रयुक्त लिये the घुसपैठ of हथियार और operatives  into Austria-Hungary .
The assassins , the key members of the clandestine tunnel , and the key  सर्बियाई सैन्य षड्यंत्रकारियों जो यहूद स्टिल जिंदा यहूद गिरफ्तार  , tried , convicted and punished .
Those who were  गिरफ्तार in बोस्निया यहूद आजमाया in  Sarajevo in October 1914 .
The other conspirators  यहूद गिरफ्तार और आजमाया पहले a सर्बियाई कंगारू अदालत on the french-controlled  Salonika Front in 1916–1917 on unrelated false charges ; Serbia executed three of the top military conspirators .
much of कया is ज्ञात परिचय the assassinations आता इससे  these two trials and related records .
कार्यभार of जिम्मेदारी लिये the bombing और हत्याएं of  28 June is highly controversial because the attack led to the outbreak of World War I one month later .
Mission San Juan Capistrano was a Spanish  मिशन in दक्षिणी कैलिफ़ोर्निया , स्तिथ in present-day सैन जुआन  Capistrano .
It was founded  on सब संतो ' दिन नवम्बर 1 , 1776 , by स्पेनी catholics  of the Franciscan Order .
Named for Giovanni da Capistrano , a 15th century theologian and ``  योद्धा पुजारी '' जो resided in the abruzzo प्रदेश of इटली , सैन जुआन capistrano रै the भेद  of being home to the oldest building in California still in use , a chapel built in 1782 .
Known  alternately as `` सेरा 's चैपल '' और `` पिता सेरा 's  Church , '' it is the only extant structure where it has been documented that the padre Junipero Serra celebrated mass .
One of  the बेहतरीन ज्ञात of the alta कैलिफ़ोर्निया मिशन ( और एक of the few मिशन to have दरअसल महरूम  founded twice—others being Mission San Gabriel Arcángel and Mission La Purísima Concepción ) .
The site was originally consecrated  on अक्तूबर 30 , 1775 , by पिता fermín lasuén , लकिन थी  quickly abandoned due to unrest among the indigenous population in San Diego .
The success of the settlement is evident in  इसके ऐतिहासिक रिकॉर्ड  .
Prior to the arrival of the missionaries ,  कुछ 550 natives यहूद बिखरे throughout  the local area .
By 1790 , the number of converted Christians had grown to 700 ,  और बस छह सालो बाद nearly 1,000 `` neophytes `` ( हाल converts  ) lived in or around the Mission compound .
1,649 baptisms were  conducted कि साल अलोन , आउट of the कुल  4,639 souls converted between 1776 and 1847 .
More than 2,000 former inhabitants ( mostly  juaneño इंडियंस ) हैं दफ्न in unmarked क़ब्रों in the मिशन  's cemetery ( campo santo ) .
The remains of Father ( later Monsignor ) St. John O'Sullivan , who recognized the property 's historic  मान और working tirelessly to conserve और rebuild इसके structures , हैं दफ्न at the प्रवेश to the कब्रिस्तान on  the west side of the property , and a statue raised in his honor stands at the head of the crypt .
The surviving chapel also serves as  the फाइनल resting प्लेस of तीन पैड्रेस जो passed on जबकि सेवारत at the मिशन : fathers  José Barona , Vicente Fustér , and Vicente Pascual Oliva are all entombed beneath the sanctuary floor .
The Criolla or `` Mission grape , '' was first planted at San Juan Capistrano in 1779 ; in  1783 , the पहला वाइन उत्पादित in alta कैलिफ़ोर्निया उभरा इससे the मिशन 's वाइनरी  .
the मिशन डाला a long काल of क्रमिक  decline after secularization in 1833 .
Numerous efforts  यहूद बना over the सालो to restore the मिशन to इसके पूर्व महिमा , लकिन none  met with great success until the arrival of Father O'Sullivan in 1910 .
बहाली प्रयत्न continue , और `` सेरा 's चैपल '' is  still used for religious services .
About  half-a-million विज़िटर , सहित 80,000 स्कूल children  , come to the Mission each year .
And while the ruins of `` The Great Stone Church '' ( which was all but leveled by an 1812 earthquake  ) हैं a प्रसिद्ध architectural अचरज , the मिशन is शायद बेहतरीन ज्ञात लिये the सालाना `` वापसी of the दात '' जिससे is traditionally  observed every March 19 ( Saint Joseph 's Day ) .
Mission San Juan Capistrano has served as a favorite  विषय लिये अनेक notable कलाकारों , और रै महरूम immortalized in साहित्य और  on film numerous times , perhaps more than any other mission .
In 1984 , a modern church complex was constructed just north and  वेस्ट of the मिशन यौगिक और is अभी ज्ञात as मिशन basilica सैन जुआन capistrano  .
Today , the mission compound serves as a museum , with the Serra Chapel within the  यौगिक सेवारत as a चैपल लिये the मिशन मोहल्ला  .
Better Off Dead is a 1985  अमरीकी टीन रोमांटिक कॉमेडी फिल्मी अभिनीत जॉन cusack और लिखा और  directed by Savage Steve Holland .
It tells the story of high  स्कूल छात्र लेन myer जो is suicidal बाद  his girlfriend breaks up with him .
Mercedes-Benz Superdome  ( originally louisiana superdome और commonly  The Superdome ) is a sports and exhibition stadium , located in the Central Business District of New Orleans , Louisiana , USA .
Plans were drawn up  in 1967 , by the नई ऑरलियन्स modernist architectural कड़  of Curtis and Davis .
Its  स्टील फ़्रेम कवर a expanse  .
Its dome is made of a Lamella multi-ringed frame and has a diameter of , making it  the largest फिक्स्ड domed ढांचा in  the world .
It is home to the NFL 's New Orleans Saints ,  the ncaa 's प्रभाग i-a tulane ग्रीन वेव फ़ुटबॉल टोली ( the largest फ़ुटबॉल स्टेडियम in सम्मेलन यूएसए ) , the राज्य फार्म bayou क्लासिक , the  R+L Carriers New Orleans Bowl , the Allstate Sugar Bowl and , every fourth year , the BCS National Championship Game .
Because of the size and location in one of the  प्रमुख पर्यटक गंतव्यों in the संयुक्त राज्य , the superdome routinely makes the `` छोटी सूची '' of उम्मीदवार होने माना लिये  major sporting events , such as the Super Bowl and the Final Four .
In 2005 ,  the superdome gained अंतरराष्ट्रीय ध्यान of a अलग प्रकार जब it housed हज़ारों of लोगों  seeking shelter from Hurricane Katrina .
The  भवन suffered extensive क्षति as a परिणाम of  the storm , and was closed for many months afterward .
On October 3 , 2011 , it was announced that German  automaker mercedes-benz खरीदा नामकरण अधिकारों to the स्टेडियम  .
The new name took effect on  अक्तूबर 23 , 2011  .
It is the third stadium that has naming rights from Mercedes-Benz ( and first in the United States ) , after the Mercedes-Benz  एरिना , the स्टेडियम of bundesliga क्लबों vfb stuttgart , in stuttgart , जर्मनी और the mercedes-benz एरिना  in Shanghai , China .
लॉबी of जम्बो  House
Giraffe on the  savannah at जम्बो  House
Disney 's Animal Kingdom  आवास is an african-themed डीलक्स रिज़ॉर्ट at the वॉल्ट  Disney World Resort .
It  खोली on अप्रैल  16 , 2001 .
The resort is  स्वामित्व और संचालित by  Walt Disney Parks and Resorts .
Disney 's Animal Kingdom Lodge is  स्तिथ in the एनिमल किंगडम रिज़ॉर्ट क्षेत्रफल , सटा  to Disney 's Animal Kingdom .
It gives guests the opportunity to view grazing wildlife outside their rooms and public  क्षेत्रों in the रिज़ॉर्ट भीतर निकटता of the पशु , conveying the अहसास of होने in  an African savanna .
The People 's Party ,  भी ज्ञात as the `` populists '' , थी a short-lived राजनैतिक पार्टी in the  United States established in 1891 during the Populist movement ( United States , 19th Century ) .
It was most  महत्वपूर्ण in 1892-96 , और तब rapidly  faded away .
Based among poor , white cotton farmers in the South ( especially North Carolina , Alabama , and Texas ) and hard-pressed wheat  किसानो in the मैदान राज्य ( विशेषकर कान्सास और नेब्रास्का ) , it represented a कट्टरपंथी crusading रूप of agrarianism और दुश्मनी  to banks , railroads , and elites generally .
It sometimes formed coalitions with labor unions ,  और in 1896 the डेमोक्रेट endorsed उनके अध्यक्षीय nominee , विलियम जेनिंग्स  Bryan .
The  शर्तें `` populist '' और `` populism `` हैं commonly प्रयुक्त लिये anti-elitist  appeals in opposition to established interests and mainstream parties .
Linguistic map of  सीरियल , कैमरून  , and Benin .
Sign in English  , बाहर the  University of Lagos
There are hundreds  of भाषाएं बोला in सीरियल  .
The major languages are Yoruba , Hausa ,  इग्बो , ईदो , fulfulde , कनूरी ,  and Ibibio .
The official language of Nigeria  , अंग्रेज़ी , the पूर्व औपनिवेशिक भाषा , थी चुनी to सुकर the सांस्कृतिक और  linguistic unity of the country .
English , however , remains an exclusive preserve of the  देश 's शहरी elite , और is नहीं widely बोला in ग्रामीण क्षेत्रों , जिससे comprise तीन  quarters of the countries population .
Nigeria 's linguistic diversity is a microcosm  of अफ़्रीकी as a पूरे , encompassing तीन प्रमुख अफ़्रीकी  languages families : Afroasiatic , Nilo-Saharan , and Niger–Congo .
Nigeria also has several as-yet unclassified languages , such as Cen Tuum , which  may represent a relic of an भी वृहद विविधता prior to the स्प्रेड of the वर्तमान भाषा परिवारों .
A  श्रेणी of कार्यक्रम led  to the attack on Pearl Harbor .
War  between जापानी और the संयुक्त राज्य था महरूम a सम्भावना कि प्रत्येक स्वदेश 's सैन्य शक्तियां नियोजित  for since the 1920s , though real tension did not begin until the 1931 invasion of Manchuria by Japan .
Over the next decade , Japan expanded slowly into China ,  अग्रणी to सब आउट युद्ध between  the two in 1937 .
In 1940 Japan invaded  फ्रेंच इंडोचायना in an प्रयत्न to embargo सब imports into चीन  , including war supplies purchased from the U.S .
This move prompted the  संयुक्त राज्य to embargo सब आयल निर्यात , अग्रणी the इम्पीरियल जापानी नेवी to अनुमान कि it था कम  than two years of bunker oil remaining and to support the existing plans to seize oil resources in the Dutch East Indies .
नियोजन था महरूम underway लिये कुछ समय on an आक्रमण on the `` दक्षिणी संसाधन क्षेत्रफल '' to add  it to the Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere that Japan envisioned in the Pacific .
The Philippine islands , at that  समय an अमरीकी  territory , were also a Japanese target .
The Japanese military concluded that an invasion of the  फिलीपीन होता provoke an अमरीकी सैन्य जवाब  .
Rather than seize and fortify the islands , and wait for the inevitable US counterattack , Japan 's military  नेताओ बजाय decided on the pre-emptive पर्ल हार्बर आक्रमण , जिससे वे assumed होता negate the अमरीकी शक्तियां needed लिये the मुक्ति और reconquest of the आइलैंड्स  .
Planning for the attack had begun in very  जल्दी 1941 , by admiral isoroku  Yamamoto .
He finally won assent from the  नवल ऊँची कमांड by , among अन्य बाते , threatening  to resign .
The  आक्रमण थी स्वीकृत in the गर्मियाँ at an इम्पीरियल सम्मेलन और again at  a second Conference in the fall .
Simultaneously over the  साल , पायलटों यहूद प्रशिक्षित , और जहाजों prepared  for its execution .
प्राधिकार लिये the आक्रमण थी granted at the दूसरी इम्पीरियल सम्मेलन  if a diplomatic result satisfactory to Japan was not reached .
After final approval by Emperor Hirohito the  अनुक्रम to आक्रमण थी जारी at the शुरूआत of  December .
A  आम दफ्तर stapler
a आम स्कूल  stapler
A stapler is a mechanical device that joins sheets of paper or  समान सामग्री by ड्राइविंग a पतला मेटल स्टेपल through the चादरें और फोल्डिंग the  ends .
Staplers are widely used in  सरकारी , कारोबार , कार्यालयों ,  homes and schools .
The word `` stapler '' can  दरअसल refer to a क्रमांक of अलग डिवाइस of  varying uses .
In addition to joining paper sheets together , staplers can also be used  in a सर्जिकल सेटिंग to जुड़ें ऊतक साथ साथ सर्जिकल स्टेपल्स to बंद a सर्जिकल घाव  ( much in the same way as stitches or sutures ) .
typically , सबसे staplers  are used to join multiple sheets of paper .
Paper staplers come in two  पृथक प्रकार : हस्तचालित और इलेक्ट्रिक  .
Manual staplers are normally hand-held ,  हालांकि मॉडल कि हैं प्रयुक्त जबकि नियत on a डेस्क or अन्य सतह  are not uncommon .
Electric staplers  मौजूद in a किस्में of अलग  designs and models .
Their primary  ऑपरेटिंग फलन is to जुड़ें विशाल संख्याएँ of  paper sheets together in rapid succession .
Some electric  staplers can जुड़ें up to 20 चादरें at a  time .
Swallowing , known  scientifically as deglutition , is the प्रक्रम in the इंसान or एनिमल देह कि makes कुछ pass इससे the मुँह  , to the pharynx , and into the esophagus , while shutting the epiglottis .
If this fails and the object  goes through the श्वासनली , तब choking or pulmonary  aspiration can occur .
In the human body it is  नियंत्रित by the swallowing reflex .
Thaddeus Stevens ( April 4 , 1792 – August 11 , 1868 ) , of Pennsylvania , was a leader of  the कट्टरपंथी रिपब्लिकन गुट of the रिपब्लिकन पार्टी  and a fierce opponent of slavery .
He was one  of the सबसे influential सदस्यों in the  history of Congress .
As chairman of the powerful House Ways and Means Committee ,  स्टीवंस , a witty , व्यंग्यात्मक स्पीकर और flamboyant पार्टी नेता , वर्चस्व the हाउस इससे  1861 until his death .
He wrote much of the financial  विधान कि सशुल्क लिये  the American Civil War .
Stevens and Senator Charles Sumner were the prime  नेताओ of the कट्टरपंथी republicans  during the war and Reconstruction era .
scholarly दृश्य of स्टीवंस have swung sharply चूंकि  his death as interpretations of Reconstruction have changed .
Historians of the Dunning School ( 1890s–1940s ) held Stevens responsible for demanding harsh treatment of the white South and violating  अमरीकी परंपराओं of republicanism , depicting स्टीवंस as  a villain for his advocacy of harsh measures in the South such as disfranchising all ex-Confederates .
इस अत्यधिक ऋणात्मक characterization  held sway into the 1950s .
The  वृद्धि of the neo-abolitionist स्कूल in the 1950s led to a दमदार  positive appreciation of Stevens ' work on civil rights for Freedmen .
A recent biographer characterizes him as , `` The Great Commoner , savior of free public education in Pennsylvania , national Republican leader in the struggles against  गुलामी in the संयुक्त राज्य और intrepid mainstay of the attempt to सुरक्षित जातिगत इंसाफ लिये the freedmen दौरान पुनर्निर्माण , the तभी सदस्य of the हाउस of प्रतिनिधि कभी  to have been known as the 'dictator ' of Congress . ''
Overview of  the अनुवाद of eukaryotic  messenger RNA
Diagram showing the  अनुवाद of mrna और the  synthesis of proteins by a ribosome
In molecular biology and genetics ,  अनुवाद is the प्रक्रम through जिससे सेल्यूलर ribosomes manufacture प्रोटीन  .
It is part  of the प्रक्रम of  gene expression .
In  अनुवाद , मेसेंजर rna ( mrna ) उत्पादित by ट्रांसक्रिप्शन is decoded by the राइबोसोम to उपज a विशिष्ट अमीनो  acid chain , or polypeptide , that will later fold into an active protein .
In bacteria ,  अनुवाद occurs in the कोशिका 's कोशिकाद्रव्य , जहाँ the विशाल और छोटी  subunits of the ribosome are located , and bind to the mRNA .
In eukaryotes , translation occurs across the membrane of  the endoplasmic reticulum in a प्रक्रम पुकारा vectorial संश्लेषण  .
The ribosome facilitates decoding by inducing the  बाइंडिंग of trnas साथ पूरक anticodon sequences to कि of the mrna  .
The tRNAs carry specific amino acids  कि हैं chained साथ into a polypeptide as the mrna गुजरता through  and is `` read '' by the ribosome in a fashion reminiscent to that of a stock ticker and ticker tape .
In many instances , the entire ribosome/mRNA complex binds to the outer membrane of the rough endoplasmic reticulum and  रिलीज the nascent प्रोटीन polypeptide अंदर लिये बाद vesicle हस्तांतरण और स्राव बाहर  of the cell .
Many types of transcribed RNA , such as transfer RNA , ribosomal RNA  , और छोटी नाभिकीय rna , do नहीं undergo अनुवाद  into proteins .
Translation proceeds in four phases : initiation , elongation , translocation and termination ( all describing the growth of the amino acid chain , or  polypeptide कि is the उत्पाद of अनुवाद  ) .
Amino acids are  brought to ribosomes और समवेत  into proteins .
In activation , the correct  अमीनो एसिड is covalently बंधुआ to the  correct transfer RNA ( tRNA ) .
the अमीनो एसिड is joined by इसके carboxyl समूह  to the 3 ' OH of the tRNA by an ester bond .
When the tRNA has an amino acid  linked to it , it is termed ``  charged '' .
दीक्षा involves the छोटी subunit of the राइबोसोम  binding to the 5 ' end of mRNA with the help of initiation factors ( IF ) .
Termination of the polypeptide happens  जब the a साईट of the राइबोसोम चेहरों a  stop codon ( UAA , UAG , or UGA ) .
no trna can recognize  or bind to this codon .
Instead , the stop codon induces the binding of a release factor protein that prompts the  disassembly of the संपूर्ण ribosome/mrna जटिल .
A number of antibiotics act by inhibiting  अनुवाद ; ये शामिल anisomycin , cycloheximide , chloramphenicol ,  tetracycline , streptomycin , erythromycin , and puromycin , among others .
Prokaryotic ribosomes have a  अलग ढांचा इससे कि of eukaryotic ribosomes , और यूँ एंटीबायोटिक can specifically  target bacterial infections without any detriment to a eukaryotic host 's cells .
A multimedia  संदेश on a मोबाईल फोन  .
Multimedia Messaging Service ( MMS ) is a  मानक रास्ता to भेजें संदेश कि शामिल मल्टीमीडिया  content to and from mobile phones .
It extends the core  sms ( छोटी संदेश सेवा ) काबिलियत कि अनुमत एक्सचेंज of टेक्स्ट  messages only up to 160 characters in length .
The most popular use is to send photographs from camera-equipped handsets , although it is also popular as a method of  delivering न्यूज और entertainment सामग्री सहित वीडियो , तस्वीरें , टेक्स्ट पृष्ठों और  ringtones .
The standard is  विकसित by the खोलें मोबाईल गठबंधन ( ओमो ) , हालांकि दौरान विकास it  was part of the 3GPP and WAP groups .
Smallpox was an  संक्रामक बीमारी अद्वितीय to इंसानो , caused by either of दो वायरस  variants , Variola major and Variola minor .
The disease is also known by the Latin names Variola or  variola वीरा , निकला इससे varius ( `` spotted '' ) or varus  ( `` pimple '' ) .
The disease was originally known in English as the `` pox '' or `` red plague '' ; the term `` smallpox '' was  पहला प्रयुक्त in ब्रिटेन in the 15th सदी to फर्क variola इससे the `` ग्रेट चेचक '' ( उपदंश  ) .
The last naturally  occurring मामला of smallpox ( variola नाबालिग ) थी diagnosed  on 26 October 1977 .
Smallpox localized in small  रक्त बरतन of the स्किन और in the मुँह  and throat .
In the skin it resulted in a characteristic maculopapular  खाज और , बाद , उठाया fluid-filled  blisters .
V. प्रमुख produces a अधिक गंभीर बीमारी और रै  an overall mortality rate of 30–35 % .
V. minor causes a milder form of disease ( also known  as alastrim , cottonpox , milkpox , whitepox , और क्यूबन खुजली ) जिससे मारता  about 1 % of its victims .
Long-term complications of V. major infection include  characteristic scars , commonly on the फेस  , which occur in 65–85 % of survivors .
Blindness resulting from corneal ulceration and scarring , and  limb deformities due to गठिया और osteomyelitis  are less common complications , seen in about 2–5 % of cases .
Smallpox is believed to  have उभरा in इंसान populations  about 10,000 BC .
The earliest physical evidence of it is probably the  pustular खाज on the mummified देह of pharaoh  Ramses V of Egypt .
The disease killed an estimated 400,000 Europeans annually during  the closing सालो of the 18th सदी ( सहित पाँच reigning monarchs ) , और थी जिम्मेदार लिये a तीसरा of सब  blindness .
Of all  those संक्रमित , 20–60 % —and over 80 %  of infected children—died from the disease .
Smallpox  थी जिम्मेदार लिये an अनुमानित 300–500 लाख मौतों  during the 20th century .
as recently as 1967 , the संसार स्वास्थ्य  Organization ( WHO ) estimated that 15 million people contracted the disease and that two million died in that year .
After vaccination campaigns throughout the 19th and 20th  सदियां , the जो certified the eradication of smallpox in 1979  .
Smallpox is one of two infectious diseases to have been eradicated , the other being  rinderpest , जिससे थी घोषित eradicated  in 2011 .
`` I Want to  थाम अपना हाथ '' is a सोंग  by the English rock band the Beatles .
Written by John Lennon and Paul McCartney ,  और अंकित in अक्तूबर 1963 , it थी the पहला बीटल्स रिकार्ड to be बना using  four-track equipment .
With advance  आदेश exceeding एक लाख नक़ल in the संयुक्त किंगडम , `` i want to थाम अपना हाथ '' होता साधारणतया have गए सीधा to the शीर्ष of the अंग्रेजों रिकार्ड चार्ट on इसके दिन of रिलीज ( 29 नवम्बर 1963  ) had it not been blocked by the group 's first million seller `` She Loves You `` , the Beatles ' previous UK single , which was having a resurgent spell in the top position following intense media coverage of the group .
Taking two weeks to dislodge its predecessor , `` I Want to  थाम अपना हाथ '' ठहरे at क्रमांक एक लिये पाँच सप्ताह और remained in the uk शीर्ष पचास  for twenty-one weeks in total .
It was also the group 's first American number one ,  प्रवेश the बिलबोर्ड hot 100 चार्ट on 18 जनवरी 1964 at क्रमांक forty-five और starting  the British invasion of the American music industry .
by 1 फ़रवरी it आयोजित the क्रमांक एक स्पॉट — लिये सात सप्ताह  — before being replaced by `` She Loves You '' , a reverse scenario of what had occurred in Britain , and remained in the US charts for a total of fifteen weeks .
`` I Want to Hold  अपना हाथ '' became the बीटल्स ' best-selling  single worldwide .
A gasser was a type of hot rod originating on the dragstrips of the United States in the late  1950s और जारी जबतक the जल्दी 1970s  .
Gassers were based on production models from the 1930s to mid-1960s , which have been stripped of extraneous weight  और jacked up using a ट्रक बीम धुरी to provide बेहतर वज़न वितरण on त्वरण ( बीम axles हैं भी हल्का than an स्वतंत्र सामने बर्खास्तगी ) , हालांकि a  raised stock front suspension is common as well .
Common weight reduction  तकनीकों शामिल fiberglass देह panels , stripped  interiors and plexiglass windows ( sometimes color tinted ) .
Because they were  primarily निर्मित लिये रेसिंग , ये गाड़ियाँ typically था the इंजन swapped to a larger or अधिक शक्तिशाली  one , the existing stock engine modified ( often heavily ) or both .
It was very common to fit a Roots  supercharger और mechanical ईंधन  injection , such as one from Algon , Hilborn , or Crower .
With form being dictated by function , their appearance is often very top heavy and ungainly ,  largely due to सामने ends होने उठाया उच्चतर than भण्डार , to assist in the वज़न ट्रांसफ़र दौरान रैपिड त्वरण ( रेसिंग ) .
Having  उनके exhaust पाइप निकास through the सामने फेंडर खूब is a  common characteristic of gassers , as is having bodies painted in flamboyant metalflakes , pearls , and candy finishes complemented by lettering in wild fonts .
The name arose because they competed in a gasoline -fueled drag  रेसिंग क्लास , बल्कि than एक using methanol or nitromethane  .
The gasser is the predecessor  of the आधुनिक मजेदार car  .
Twelve-lead EKG of a  26-year-old पुरूष
Electrocardiography ( ECG or EKG from ) is a transthoracic ( across the thorax or chest ) interpretation of the electrical  कार्यकलाप of the दिल over a काल of समय , as detected by electrodes संलग्न to the सतह of the स्किन और अंकित by a यंत्र बाह्य to the देह  .
The recording produced by this  noninvasive कार्यविधि is termed an electrocardiogram ( भी ईसीजी or  EKG ) .
An ECG is used to  माप the रेट और नियमितता of heartbeats , as खूब as the आकार और स्थिति  of the chambers , the presence of any damage to the heart , and the effects of drugs or devices used to regulate the heart , such as a pacemaker .
Most ECGs are performed for diagnostic or research purposes on human hearts , but may also  be performed on पशु , प्रायः लिये निदान of दिल abnormalities  or research .
Donald  जॉन ट्रम्प , sr. ( born जून 14 , 1946 ) is an अमरीकी कारोबार महारथी  , television personality and author .
He is the chairman and president of The Trump  संगठन और the संस्थापक of ट्रम्प entertainment रिसॉर्ट  .
Trump 's extravagant lifestyle , outspoken manner ,  और भूमिका on the एनबीसी वास्तविकता दिखाएँ the प्रशिक्षु have बना उसे a well-known हस्ती जो थी no  . 14 on the 2012 Forbes Celebrity 100 list .
Trump  is the बेटे of फ्रेड ट्रम्प , a धनवान  New York City real-estate developer .
He worked for his father 's firm  , एलिज़ाबेथ ट्रम्प & बेटे , जबकि उपस्थित the व्हार्टन स्कूल of the विश्वविद्यालयों of पेन्सिलवेनिया , और  in 1968 officially joined the company .
He was given control of the  कम्पनी in 1971 और renamed it the ट्रम्प  Organization .
In 2010 , Trump expressed an  ब्याज in बनने a प्रत्याशी लिये अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य in the 2012 चुनाव  , though in May 2011 , he announced he would not be a candidate .
In  दिसम्बर 2011 , ट्रम्प थी सुझाया as a संभावित वाइस अध्यक्षीय चयन by  Michele Bachmann , if she were to win the Republican nomination .
`` A Change Is Gon na Come '' is a 1964 single by R & B singer-songwriter Sam Cooke , written and  पहला अंकित in 1963 और released अंतर्गत the आरसीए विक्टर लेबल shortly बाद  his death in late 1964 .
Though  तभी a modest hit लिये cooke in तुलना साथ उसके पिछला singles , the सोंग  came to exemplify the 1960s ' Civil Rights Movement .
The song has gained in popularity and critical acclaim in the decades since its  रिलीज , और is # 12 on रोलिंग स्टोन 's 500 महानतम  Songs of All Time .
Steam rising from the  nesjavellir geothermal शक्ति स्टेशन  in Iceland .
Geothermal energy is  थर्मल उर्जा उत्पन्न और भंडारित  in the Earth .
Thermal energy is the energy that  determines the तापमान of पदार्थ  .
The Geothermal energy of the Earth 's crust originates from the  असली गठन of the ग्रह ( 20 % ) और इससे  radioactive decay of minerals ( 80 % ) .
The geothermal gradient , which is the difference in temperature between the core of the planet and its surface , drives a  निरन्तर conduction of थर्मल उर्जा in the रूप of ऊष्मा इससे the  core to the surface .
The adjective geothermal  originates इससे the यूनानी जड़ें γη ( ge ) , अर्थ  earth , and θερμος ( thermos ) , meaning hot .
At the core of the Earth , thermal energy is created by  रेडियोसक्रिय क्षय और temperatures may पहुँचें over 5000 °c ( 9,000  °F ) .
ऊष्मा conducts इससे the कोर  to surrounding cooler rock .
The high  तापमान और दबाव कारण कुछ चट्टान  to melt , creating magma convection upward since it is lighter than the solid rock .
The magma heats rock and water in the  क्रस्ट , sometimes up to 370 °c ( 700 °f  ) .
From hot springs , geothermal  उर्जा रै महरूम प्रयुक्त लिये स्नान चूंकि paleolithic टाइम्स और लिये स्पेस हीटिंग चूंकि प्राचीन  Roman times , but it is now better known for electricity generation .
विश्वव्यापी , परिचय 10,715 megawatts ( mw ) of geothermal शक्ति  is online in 24 countries .
An additional 28 gigawatts of direct geothermal heating capacity is installed for district heating , space  हीटिंग , स्पा , औद्योगिक प्रक्रियाओं , desalination और agricultural  applications .
Geothermal power is  लागत प्रभावी , विश्वसनीय , चिरस्थायी , और environmentally दोस्ताना , लकिन रै  historically been limited to areas near tectonic plate boundaries .
Recent technological advances have dramatically expanded the range and size of viable resources ,  विशेषकर लिये अनुप्रयोग ऐसे as घर हीटिंग , खोलने  a potential for widespread exploitation .
Geothermal wells release greenhouse  गैसों फंस गहन भीतर the धरती , लकिन ये emissions हैं  much lower per energy unit than those of fossil fuels .
As a result , geothermal power has the potential to  सहायता mitigate वैश्विक वार्मिंग  if widely deployed in place of fossil fuels .
The  धरती 's geothermal संसाधन हैं theoretically अधिक than पर्याप्त to सप्लाई मानवता 's उर्जा  needs , but only a very small fraction may be profitably exploited .
खुदाई और खोजी लिये गहन संसाधन  is very expensive .
Forecasts for  the भविष्य of geothermal शक्ति निर्भर on assumptions  about technology , energy prices , subsidies , and interest rates .
Pilot programs like EWEB 's customer opt in Green Power Program show  कि ग्राहक होता be willing to अदा a छोटी अधिक लिये a बेदर्दी उर्जा  source like geothermal .
But  as a परिणाम of सरकारी assisted शोध और उद्योग  experience , the cost of generating geothermal power has decreased by 25 % over the past two decades .
In 2001 ,  geothermal उर्जा लागत between दो और टेन  cents per kwh .
Ownership of property  may be निजी , सामूहिक , or आम और the प्रॉपर्टी may be वस्तुएँ  , land/real estate , or intellectual property .
Determining ownership in law involves determining who has certain  अधिकारों और कर्तव्य over the  property .
These rights and  कर्तव्य , sometimes पुकारा a 'bundle  of rights ' , can be separated and held by different parties .
The question of ownership reaches back to the ancient  दार्शनिकों , प्लेटो और अरस्तू , जो आयोजित अलग राय  on the subject .
Plato ( 428/427 BC – 348/347 BC ) thought private property  निर्मित divisive inequalities , जबकि अरस्तू ( 384 bc – 322 bc ) विचार निजी प्रॉपर्टी सक्रिय लोगों to प्राप्त  the full benefit of their labor .
Private  प्रॉपर्टी can circumvent कया is अभी referred to as the “ त्रासदी of the  commons ” problem , where people tend to degrade common property more than they do private property .
Given a short-sighted owner , however , a private property system can make these tragedies worse—for example , a private owner of a piece of oil-rich property  , depending on उसके worldview , might be अधिक दिलचस्पी in short-term वित्तीय लाभ than वृद्धिशील उपयोग साथ an नजर toward अन्य 's चिंताएं ( e.g. , those of भविष्य  generations , the disenfranchised , etc . ) .
While Aristotle justified the existence of private  स्वामित्व , he बाएँ खोलें सवाल of ( 1 ) कैसा to allocate प्रॉपर्टी between कया is निजी और आम और (  2 ) how to allocate the private property within society .
Over the millennia , and across cultures what can be property  और कैसा it is regarded culturally  have varied widely .
Ownership is the basis for many other concepts that form the foundations of ancient and modern societies such as money ,  व्यापार , कर्ज़ , दिवालियापन , the criminality of चोरी , और निजी vs. पब्लिक प्रॉपर्टी  .
Ownership is the key building block in  the विकास of the पूंजीवादी socio-economic  system .
Adam Smith stated  कि एक of the पवित्र कानून of इंसाफ थी to गार्ड  a person 's property and possessions .
The process and mechanics of ownership  हैं fairly जटिल : एक can लाभ , ट्रांसफ़र और खोना  ownership of property in a number of ways .
To acquire property one  can खरीदें it साथ धन , व्यापार it लिये अन्य प्रॉपर्टी , प्राप्त it as a तोहफा , चोरी  it , find it , make , it or homestead it .
One can transfer or lose ownership of property by selling it for money , exchanging it for other property , giving it as a gift , being robbed  of it , it , or having it stripped इससे एक 's स्वामित्व through विधिक अर्थात् ऐसे as eviction , foreclosure , seizure  , or taking .
Ownership is self-propagating in that the owner of any property  होगा भी अपना the आर्थिक लाभ  of that property .
`` What 's My Name ? '' is a song recorded  by barbadian रिकॉर्डिंग कलाकार रिहाना , लिये उसके  fifth studio album Loud ( 2010 ) .
Featuring guest vocals from  कनाडाई rapper ड्रेक , the सोंग थी released as the दूसरी सिंगल इससे  Loud on October 29 , 2010 through Def Jam Recordings .
The R & B song was produced by the Norwegian  उत्पादन duo स्टारगेट , और थी लिखा by the duo साथ साथ  Ester Dean , Traci Hale , and Drake .
Lyrically  , it incorporates विषयवस्तु of यौन  intercourse and romance .
Music  आलोचकों दिया the सोंग धनात्मक समीक्षाएँ , citing it कुछ of रिहाना 's बेहतरीन गायन कार्य to तिथि  ; there was a praise regarding its romantic nature , as well as its sexual tones .
`` What 's My Name ? '' was a commercial success and topped the US Billboard Hot  100 चार्ट , giving रिहाना उसके तीसरा number-one सिंगल in 2010 , as खूब as उसके  eighth overall on the chart .
The song also topped the charts in Hungary and  the संयुक्त किंगडम और पहुँचे the शीर्ष पाँच in कनाडा  , Ireland , New Zealand , Norway and Slovakia .
the सोंग प्राप्त a नामांकन  at the 54th Grammy Awards for Best Rap/Sung Collaboration .
An accompanying music video ,  निर्देशित by फिलिप andelman , portrays a रोमांटिक एनकाउंटर between रिहाना और ड्रेक in a  grocery store along with romantic scenes between the pair and Rihanna walking through Manhattan 's Lower East Side .
`` What 's My Name ? '' was  प्रचारित साथ सजीव प्रदर्शन आरपार दोनो पहलू of the अटलांटिक , सहित शनिवार रात्रि सजीव  in America and the series seven finale of The X Factor in the United Kingdom .
The latter performance resulted in an investigation from the country 's media  नियामक , ofcom , लिये the raunchy प्रकृति of रिहाना 's  outfit .
A mathematical constant is a  खास क्रमांक , प्रायः a रियल क्रमांक , कि is `` significantly  interesting in some way '' .
Constants arise in many different areas of mathematics , with constants such as e ( mathematical constant ) | and pi|  occurring in ऐसे विविध contexts as भूगोल , क्रमांक सिद्धान्त और कलन  .
What it means for a constant to arise  `` naturally '' , और कया makes a निरंतर `` दिलचस्प '' , is ultimately a पदार्थ of स्वाद , और कुछ गणितीय स्थिरांक हैं  notable more for historical reasons than for their intrinsic mathematical interest .
The more popular constants have been studied  throughout the आयु और computed to अनेक दशमलव स्थान  .
All mathematical constants are definable numbers and usually  हैं भी computable संख्याएँ  ( Chaitin 's constant being a significant exception ) .
चुनावों to the संयुक्त राज्य सीनेट यहूद आयोजित on नवम्बर  2 , 2010 , for 37 of the United States Senate 's 100 seats .
( A special  चुनाव on जनवरी 19 , 2010 in मैसाचुसेट्स  was held earlier in the year . )
thirty-four of the सीटे यहूद लिये six-year शर्तें to the सीनेट 's `` क्लास तीन '' , और तीन यहूद खास  elections for shorter terms .
Of the 37 elections , 19 featured incumbent Democrats ( 7 of whom retired or were defeated in  the प्राथमिक ) और 18 प्रदर्शित लाज़िम republicans ( आठ of जिसको रिटायर्ड or यहूद पराजित  in the primary ) .
After the previous elections ( in 2008 ) , the United States  सीनेट थी रचित of 58 डेमोक्रेट , 40 republicans , और 2  independents who caucus with the Democrats .
Republicans won four seats held by  retiring डेमोक्रेट और republicans पराजित  two incumbent Democrats .
This was the largest number  of republicans gains चूंकि the 1994 चुनावों और भी the पहला समय चूंकि कि चुनाव  that Republicans successfully defended all of their own seats .
This was the fourth consecutive election of `` class 3 '' senators where Democrats have  विफल to लाभ सीटे और the तीसरा लगातार mid-term चुनाव आयोजित  in a president 's first term where Republicans have picked-up seats .
Despite these Republican wins , however , the  डेमोक्रेट retained a बहुमत of the सीनेट साथ 51 सीटे प्लस 2  independents who caucus with them , compared to the 47 Republicans .
A solstice is an astronomical event that occurs twice each year as the Sun  पहुँच इसके उच्चतम or न्यूनतम excursion सापेक्ष to the celestial equator on the celestial  sphere .
As a result , on the day of the solstice , the Sun appears to have reached  इसके उच्चतम or न्यूनतम सालाना ऊँचाई in the आसमान ऊपर  the horizon at local solar noon .
The word  संक्रांति is निकला इससे the लैटिन सोल ( सूर्य ) और sistere ( to स्टैंड स्टिल ) , क्युकी at the solstices , the सूर्य स्टैंड स्टिल in उतार ; कि is , the  seasonal movement of the Sun 's path ( as seen from Earth ) comes to a stop before reversing direction .
The  solstices , साथ साथ the equinoxes  , are connected with the seasons .
In many cultures the solstices mark either  the शुरूआत or the midpoint  of winter and summer .
The term solstice can also be used in a  broader भाव , as the तिथि ( दिन ) जब  this occurs .
The  दिन of the संक्रांति is either the longest दिन of the साल ( in गर्मियाँ  ) or the shortest day of the year ( in winter ) for any place outside of the tropics .
जेरी ली लुईस ( born सितंबर 29 , 1935 ) is  an American rock and roll and country music singer-songwriter and pianist .
He is known by the nickname `` The Killer '' and is often viewed as  “rock & फेंकें 's पहला ग्रेट जंगली  man” .
An early pioneer of rock and roll music , in 1956  लुईस बना उसके पहला रिकार्डिंग at सूर्य रिकॉर्ड  .
`` Crazy Arms `` sold 300,000  नक़ल in the दक्षिण , लकिन it थी उसके 1957 hit `` पूरे lotta shakin ' going on  `` that shot Lewis to fame worldwide .
Lewis followed this in that same year when he recorded songs such as `` Great Balls of Fire  `` , `` breathless `` और `` ऊँची स्कूल गोपनीय  `` .
Lewis sold more  रिकॉर्ड than एल्विस प्रेस्ली at इस  time .
However , Lewis ' rock 'n ' roll career faltered in  the वेक of उसके विवाह to उसके यंग  cousin .
He had little success in the charts following  the कांड और उसके लोकप्रियता जल्दी  faded .
His live performance fees  plummeted इससे $ 10,000 प्रति रात्रि to $ 250 .
In the  meantime he थी संकल्पित to लाभ वापस कुछ  of his popularity .
दौरान the जल्दी 60’s he किया n't have much चार्ट  success with few exceptions such as `` What 'd I Say `` .
His live performances at this  समय यहूद increasingly जंगली  and energetic .
His album Live at the Star Club , Hamburg from  1964 is प्रायः regarded by अनेक म्यूज़िक पत्रकारों और प्रशंसक as एक of the wildest और महानतम  rock and roll concert albums ever .
After recording songs such as `` I 'm on Fire  '' लिये अनेक सालो साथ छोटी कामयाबी , in 1968 लुईस बना a परिवर्तन into देश म्यूज़िक और  had hits with songs such as `` Another Place , Another Time '' .
This reignited his career and throughout the late '60s and '70s  he regularly अव्वल the country-western चार्ट  .
His # 1 country hits included `` To Make Love Sweeter For You ``  , `` वहीँ जरूर be अधिक to प्रेम than इस `` , `` होता तुम लो another मौका on me ``  and `` Me And Bobby McGee `` .
Lewis 's successes continued throughout the decade and he embraced his rock  'n ' फेंकें पास्ट साथ गीतों ऐसे as a कवर of  the Big Bopper 's `` Chantilly Lace `` and `` Rockin ' My Life Away `` .
In the 21st century Lewis continues to tour to audiences around  the संसार और स्टिल रिलीज नई एल्बम  .
One  ऐसे एल्बम , titled पिछला man खड़ा , is उसके  best selling to date at over a million copies sold worldwide .
This was  followed by औसत बूढ़ा man जिससे रै प्राप्त  some of the best sales of Lewis’s career .
Lewis has had a dozen gold records in both rock and  देश , जीती अनेक ग्रैमी पुरस्कार , सहित a आजीवन  Achievement Award .
Lewis was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of  कीर्ति in 1986 , और उसके pioneering योगदान to the विधा रै महरूम  recognized by the Rockabilly Hall of Fame .
In 1989 , his life was chronicled in the  फिल्म ग्रेट गेंदें of आग , अभिनीत डेनिस quaid .
In 2003 , Rolling Stone Magazine listed his box set All Killer , No Filler :  the anthology क्रमांक 242 on उनके सूची of `` 500 महानतम एल्बम of सब  time `` .
In 2004 , they  क्रमित उसे क्रमांक 24 on उनके सूची of  the 100 Greatest Artists of All Time .
Lewis is the last surviving member of Sun Records ' Million Dollar  quartet और the क्लास of '55 एल्बम , जिससे भी शामिल जॉनी नकदी , कार्ल perkins  , Roy Orbison and Elvis Presley .
Henry Louis  स्टीफंस , बेनाम watercolor ( 1863 ) of a man पढना  a newspaper with headline `` Presidential Proclamation / Slavery '' .
the emancipation उदघोषणा थी an अनुक्रम जारी to सब खण्ड of the कार्यपालिका शाखा ( सहित the फौज और नेवी ) of the संयुक्त  States by President Abraham Lincoln on January 1 , 1863 , during the American Civil War .
It was  आधारित on the अध्यक्ष 's संवैधानिक प्राधिकार as कमांडर in मुख्य of the  armed forces ; it was not a law passed by Congress .
It proclaimed all those enslaved in Confederate territory to be forever free , and ordered the Army ( and all segments of the Executive branch ) to treat as free  सब those enslaved in टेन राज्य कि यहूद स्टिल in विद्रोह , यूँ applying to 3.1  million of the 4 million slaves in the U.S .
The Proclamation  could नहीं be enforced in क्षेत्रों स्टिल अंतर्गत विद्रोह , लकिन as the फौज took कंट्रोल of confederate regions , the स्लेव in those  regions were emancipated rather than returned to their masters .
From 20,000 to 50,000 former slaves in regions where rebellion had  already महरूम subdued यहूद तत्काल emancipated , और over 3 लाख अधिक यहूद  emancipated as the Union army advanced .
The Proclamation did not apply to the five slave states  कि यहूद नहीं in विद्रोह , nor to सबसे regions already नियंत्रित by the संघ फौज ; emancipation वहीँ होता आइये बाद पृथक  state actions and/or the December 1865 ratification of the Thirteenth Amendment , which made slavery illegal everywhere in the U.S .
The Proclamation did not compensate the owners , did not itself outlaw slavery  , और किया नहीं मेक the ex-slaves ( पुकारा freedmen  ) citizens .
It made the eradication of slavery an  सुस्पष्ट युद्ध लक्ष्य , in जोड to the लक्ष्य of reuniting  the Union .
On September 22 , 1862 ,  lincoln था जारी a प्रारंभिक उदघोषणा कि he होता अनुक्रम the emancipation of सब स्लेव  in any state of the Confederate States of America that did not return to Union control by January 1 , 1863 .
None returned , and  the अनुक्रम , हस्ताक्षरित और जारी जनवरी 1 , 1863 , took प्रभाव मगर in स्थितियाँ  where the Union had already mostly regained control .
The  उदघोषणा outraged श्वेत southerners जो envisioned a रेस युद्ध , angered कुछ उत्तरी डेमोक्रेट , सक्रिय anti-slavery  forces , and weakened forces in Europe that wanted to intervene to help the Confederacy .
It also lifted the  आत्माओं of अफ़्रीकी अमेरिकी दोनो in the दक्षिणी और उत्तरी राज्य , और led  to many slaves escaping their masters and running behind Union lines in order to have their emancipation enforced .
Sucker Punch is a 2011 American fantasy action film directed by Zack Snyder and  co-written by उसे और स्टीव शिबुया  .
It  is स्नाइडर 's पहला फिल्मी  based on an original script .
The film  सितारों एमिली ब्राउनिंग , abbie cornish , जेना malone , वैनेसा हजेंस ,  Jamie Chung , and Carla Gugino .
The storyline follows  the कल्पनाओं of a यंग स्त्री जो is वचनबद्ध to a दिमागी संस्था , as वो makes a योजना  to escape the hospital before suffering a lobotomy .
The film was  released in दोनो conventional  and IMAX theatres in the United States at midnight on March 25 , 2011 .
It received  generally ऋणात्मक समीक्षाएँ इससे आलोचकों , लकिन थी  a moderate box office success .
Front  और वापस of canon powershot  A95 , a typical pocket-size digital camera
Haselblad 503CW with  ixpress v96c डिजिटल वापस , an उदाहरण of  a professional digital camera system
A digital camera ( or digicam ) is a camera that takes video or still photographs by  रिकॉर्डिंग बिंब on an इलेक्ट्रॉनिक चित्र सेंसर  .
Most cameras sold today are digital , and digital cameras are incorporated  into अनेक डिवाइस ranging इससे गुस्से और मोबाईल फोन ( पुकारा कैमरा फोन ) to वाहनों  .
Digital and film cameras share an optical  प्रणाली , typically using a लेंस साथ a परिवर्तनीय diaphragm  to focus light onto an image pickup device .
The  diaphragm और शटर admit the सही राशि of लाइट to the imager , बस as साथ फिल्मी लकिन the  image pickup device is electronic rather than chemical .
however , नापसंद फिल्मी कैमरे , डिजिटल कैमरे can प्रदर्शक बिंब on a स्क्रीन तत्काल  after being recorded , and store and delete images from memory .
Many  डिजिटल कैमरे can भी रिकार्ड चलती  video with sound .
Some digital cameras can crop and stitch pictures  और perform अन्य elementary चित्र संपादन  .
The inside and front of  a डेल poweredge वेब सर्वर , a कंप्यूटर  designed for rack mounting
अनेक वेब सर्वर may be प्रयुक्त लिये a ऊँची ट्रैफ़िक जालस्थल , यहाँ  four Sun Fire X4200 servers are installed together
Web server can refer to either the hardware ( the computer ) or the  तन्त्र ( the कंप्यूटर अनुप्रयोग ) कि helps to उद्धार वेब सामग्री  that can be accessed through the Internet .
The most common use of web servers is to  मेजबान वेबसाइटों , लकिन वहीँ हैं अन्य उपयोग ऐसे as गेमिंग , आंकड़ा भंडार  or running enterprise applications .
The American Red Cross ( ARC ) , also known as the American National Red Cross ,  is a humanitarian संगठन कि provides आपात सहायता  , disaster relief and education inside the United States .
It is the designated U.S. affiliate of the International  संघ of रेड क्रॉस और रेड crescent समाजों  .
Today , in addition to domestic disaster  राहत , the अमरीकी रेड क्रॉस offers सेवाएं in पाँच अन्य क्षेत्रों : जातियाँ सेवाएं कि सहायता the मोहताज ; संचार सेवाएं और सुकून लिये सैन्य सदस्यों और उनके परिवार सदस्यों ; the संग्रहण , प्रसंस्करण  and distribution of blood and blood products ; educational programs on preparedness , health , and safety ; and international relief and development programs .
Issued a corporate charter by the United  राज्य कॉंग्रेस अंतर्गत शीर्षक 36 of the संयुक्त राज्य कोड , खण्ड 3001 , the अमरीकी नेशनल रेड क्रॉस is governed by स्वयंसेवक और समर्थित  by community donations , income from health and safety training and products , and income from blood products .
The American Red Cross  is headquartered in वॉशिंगटन  , D.C .
The Chairman of the Board of  राज्यपालों , सेवारत उसके दूसरी three-year  term , is Bonnie McElveen-Hunter .
The current President and Chief Executive  अधिकारी is गेल J. mcgovern  .
A rooster in  कोसोवो
A rooster , showing  wattles , earlobes और  comb
A rooster  crowing (  with audio )
सही
A rooster ( also  पुकारा a cockerel or मुर्गा ) is a पुरूष  gallinaceous bird .
It  प्रायः refers to a पुरूष  chicken ( Gallus gallus ) .
Immature male chickens less  than एक साल बूढ़ा हैं पुकारा  cockerels .
The term `` rooster ''  originates in the संयुक्त राज्य , और the पद is widely प्रयुक्त throughout उत्तर अमेरिका ,  as well as Australia and New Zealand .
In the United Kingdom and Ireland the older  पद `` cockerel '' is अधिक commonly प्रयुक्त  .
`` Cock '' is in general use as the name for a male of other  प्रजाति of बर्ड , लिये उदाहरण `` मुर्गा गौरैया  '' .
`` Roosting '' is the  कार्रवाई of perching aloft to नींद at रात्रि ,  and is done by both sexes .
The rooster is polygamous , but can not  गार्ड अनेक nests of अंडे at एकबार  .
He guards the  सामान्य क्षेत्रफल जहाँ उसके मुर्गियां हैं nesting  , and will attack other roosters that enter his territory .
During the daytime , he usually sits on a high perch , usually 3–5 feet  बंद the मैदान to serve as a lookout लिये उसके झुण्ड .
He will sound a distinctive alarm  कॉल if परभक्षी हैं  nearby .
The Pokémon Trading Card Game ( Pokémon TCG  ) is a collectible कार्ड खेल आधारित on the पोकीमॉन वीडियो खेल श्रेणी , पहला प्रकाशित in अक्तूबर 1996  by Media Factory in Japan .
In the US , it was initially  प्रकाशित by wizards of the coast , the कम्पनी कि produces  , in December 1998 .
Nintendo took  over प्रकाशन  in June 2003 .
It is one of Nintendo 's  पिछला बाकी दमदार कड़ी to इसके विरासत as a playing कार्ड  company .
Land Rover is a British  car निर्माता साथ इसके मुख्यालय in gaydon ,  Warwickshire , United Kingdom which specialises in four-wheel-drive vehicles .
It is part of  the जैगुआर जमीन रोवर समूह , a  subsidiary of Tata Motors of India .
It is the second oldest four-wheel-drive car brand in  the संसार ( बाद जीपी ) .
The Land  रोवर नाम थी originally प्रयुक्त by the रोवर  Company for one specific vehicle model , named simply the Land Rover , launched by Rover in 1948 .
Over the following years it developed into a  marque encompassing a दायरा of four-wheel-drive मॉडल , सहित the defender , डिस्कवरी  , Freelander , Range Rover , Range Rover Sport and Range Rover Evoque .
Land  रोवर्स हैं फिलहाल समवेत in the कम्पनी 's halewood और solihull  plants , with research and development taking place at JLR 's Gaydon and Whitley engineering centres .
Land Rover sold 194,000  वाहनों विश्वव्यापी in 2009  .
हालांकि the ब्रांड originates इससे the असली 1948  model , Land Rover as a company has only existed since 1978 .
Prior to this , it was a product line of the Rover Company which was subsequently absorbed into the Rover-Triumph division of  the अंग्रेजों leyland मोटर निगम ( bl ) following leyland  Motor Corporation ’s takeover of Rover in 1967 .
The ongoing commercial  कामयाबी of the असली जमीन रोवर श्रेणी मॉडल , और latterly the दायरा रोवर in the 1970s in the midst of bl’s खूब प्रलेखित कारोबार परेशानियों prompted the स्थापना  of a separate Land Rover company but still under the BL umbrella , remaining part of the subsequent Rover Group in 1988 , under the ownership of British Aerospace after the remains of British Leyland were broken up and privatised .
In 1994 Rover  समूह पीएलसी थी acquired  by BMW .
In 2000 , Rover Group was broken-up by BMW and Land  रोवर थी बेची to घाट मोटर कम्पनी , बनने भाग of इसके प्रीमियर ऑटोमोटिव समूह  .
In 2006 Ford purchased the Rover  ब्रांड इससे bmw लिये around £6  million .
This reunited the Rover and Land  रोवर ब्रांड्स लिये the पहला समय चूंकि 2000 जब the रोवर समूह  was broken up by BMW .
In  जून 2008 , घाट बेची दोनो जमीन रोवर  and Jaguar Cars to Tata Motors .
This sale  भी शामिल the dormant  Rover brand
The cover of the  पहला dvd संकलन released by aniplex  of The New Captain Shūsuke Amagai arc
The ninth season of the  ब्लीच दुश्मनी श्रेणी is नामित  .
The series  is आधारित on tite kubo 's manga  with same name .
The episodes are directed by Noriyuki Abe and  उत्पादित by tv टोकियो , dentsu , और स्टुडियो  Pierrot .
The episodes ' plot focuses on the introduction of a new Soul Reaper  कप्तान , shūsuke amagai , और the रहस्य surrounding the kasumiōji गोत्र , एक of the परिवारों कि constitute the धामों  of Soul Society .
The season began airing  on अप्रैल 23 , 2008 in जापानी on tv टोकियो और  ended on October 7 , 2008 .
The English adaptation of the Bleach anime is licensed by Viz Media , and this arc began airing on  अगस्त 28 , 2010 on कार्टून संजाल 's वयस्क तैरना , और  finished on January 29 , 2011 .
Five DVD compilations , each containing four episodes of  the ऋतु , have महरूम released by aniplex ; the पहला dvd संकलन थी released on नवम्बर 26 , 2008 और the पांचवां  on March 25 , 2009 .
A DVD  बक्सा होगा be प्रकाशित by viz मीडिया  on December 13 , 2011 .
The  एपीसोड उपयोग तीन टुकड़े of थीम म्यूज़िक : एक खोलने  theme and two closing themes .
The opening theme  is `` chu-bura `` by kelun  .
The first closing theme is `` Orange '' by Lil'B , used for episodes 168 to 179 , and  the दूसरी closing थीम is `` gallop '' by pe'zmoku , प्रयुक्त लिये the शेष of  the episodes .
The regulation of prostitution in  the संयुक्त राज्य is नहीं among the enumerated शक्तियां of the संघीय सरकारी ; अंतर्गत the दसवाँ amendment to the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान , it is इसलिए exclusively the डोमेन of the राज्य to  permit , prohibit , or otherwise regulate commercial sex , except insofar as Congress may regulate it as part of interstate commerce with laws like the Mann Act .
In most states , prostitution is  माना a misdemeanor in the श्रेणी of पब्लिक अनुक्रम अपराधों , a  crime that disrupts the order of a community .
It was at one time  माना to be a vagrancy  crime .
Currently , Nevada is the only  राज्य to allow वेश्यालय वेश्यावृति , the शर्तें of जिससे हैं stipulated in the  Nevada Revised Statutes .
Only 8  काउंटी फिलहाल contain  active brothels .
All forms of prostitution are illegal in Clark County ( which contains the Las Vegas–Paradise metropolitan area ) ,  washoe काउंटी ( जिससे contains रेनो ) , कार्सन नगर , डगलस काउंटी , और  Lincoln County .
The other  काउंटी theoretically allow वेश्यालय वेश्यावृति , लकिन कुछ  of these counties currently have no active brothels .
Street  वेश्यावृति , `` pandering , '' और जीना बंद of the proceeds of a वेश्या remain illegal अंतर्गत  Nevada law , as elsewhere in the country .
As with  अन्य देशों , वेश्यावृति in the संयुक्त राज्य  can be divided into three broad categories : street prostitution , brothel prostitution , and escort prostitution .
The East Coast of the United States , also known as the Eastern Seaboard or the Atlantic Seaboard and commonly shortened to East  coast , refers to the easternmost coast of the संयुक्त  States along the Atlantic Ocean .
The states which have  shoreline on the ईस्ट coast हैं , इससे उत्तर to दक्षिण , the u.S. राज्य of maine , नई  Hampshire , Massachusetts , Rhode Island , Connecticut , New York , New Jersey , Delaware , Maryland , Virginia , North Carolina , South Carolina , Georgia , and Florida .
Richard Milhous Nixon ( January 9 , 1913 – April 22 , 1994 ) was the 37th President of the United States  , सेवारत इससे 1969 to 1974 , जब he became the तभी अध्यक्ष to इस्तीफा the  office .
Nixon had previously served as a Republican U.S. representative and senator from California and as the 36th Vice President  of the संयुक्त राज्य इससे 1953 to 1961  .
निक्सन थी born in yorba लिंडा  , California .
He graduated from Whittier College in 1934  और ड्यूक विश्वविद्यालयों स्कूल of विधि in 1937 ,  returning to California to practice law .
He and his wife , Pat Nixon , moved to  वॉशिंगटन to कार्य लिये the संघीय सरकारी  in 1942 .
He  subsequently परोसा in the संयुक्त राज्य  Navy during World War II .
Nixon was elected in California  to the हाउस of प्रतिनिधि in 1946 और to the  Senate in 1950 .
His pursuit  of the alger hiss मामला स्थापित उसके प्रतिष्ठा  as a leading anti-communist , and elevated him to national prominence .
He was the running mate of Dwight D.  आइज़नहावर , the रिपब्लिकन पार्टी अध्यक्षीय nominee  in the 1952 election .
Nixon served  लिये आठ सालो as वाइस अध्यक्ष  .
He waged an  unsuccessful अध्यक्षीय अभियान in 1960 , narrowly खोने to  John F. Kennedy , and lost a race for Governor of California in 1962 .
In  1968 , he भागा again लिये the प्रेसिडेंसी  and was elected .
हालांकि निक्सन initially escalated अमेरिका 's भागीदारी in the  Vietnam War , he subsequently ended U.S. involvement in 1973 .
Nixon 's  विज़िट to the लोगों 's गणतंत्र of चीन in 1972 खोली राजनयिक संबंध between the दो राष्ट्र , और he initiated  détente and the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty with the Soviet Union the same year .
Domestically , his administration generally  embraced नीतियों कि transferred शक्ति इससे वॉशिंगटन  to the states .
Among other things , he launched initiatives to fight  कर्कट और illegal दवाएँ , imposed मजदूरी और दाम नियंत्रण , enforced desegregation of कुछ दक्षिणी स्कूलों , और  established the Environmental Protection Agency .
Though he presided over the lunar landings  शुरूआत साथ अपोलो 11 , he scaled वापस मानवयुक्त स्पेस  exploration .
He was re-elected  by a भूस्खलन in  1972 .
Nixon 's second term saw an Arab oil embargo , the resignation of his vice president , Spiro Agnew ,  और a continuing श्रेणी of खुलासे परिचय the वाटरगेट कांड और अन्य misconduct by सदस्यों  of the administration .
The scandal escalated , costing Nixon much of his political support , and on  अगस्त 9 , 1974 , he resigned in the फेस of लगभग निश्चित महाभियोग और हटाना  from office .
After his resignation  , he controversially प्राप्त a pardon जारी  by his successor , Gerald Ford .
In retirement , Nixon 's work as an elder statesman  , authoring अनेक किताबे और undertaking  many foreign trips , helped to rehabilitate his public image .
He suffered a  debilitating स्ट्रोक on अप्रैल 18 , 1994 , और died  four days later at the age of 81 .
Sertraline hydrochloride ( trade names  zoloft , lustral ) is an antidepressant of the चयनात्मक serotonin reuptake  inhibitor ( SSRI ) class .
It was  introduced to the मार्केट  by Pfizer in 1991 .
Sertraline is primarily prescribed for major  depressive विकार in वयस्क outpatients as खूब as obsessive–compulsive , दहशत , और  social anxiety disorders in both adults and children .
In 2011 , it was the second-most prescribed  antidepressant on the u.S. खुदरा मार्केट , साथ 37,208,000  prescriptions .
The efficacy of sertraline for depression is similar to that  of पुरानी tricyclic antidepressants , लकिन इसके पक्ष  effects are much less pronounced .
Differences with newer  antidepressants हैं subtler और भी  mostly confined to side effects .
Evidence suggests that sertraline may work  बेहतर than fluoxetine ( prozac ) लिये कुछ subtypes  of depression .
Treatment of panic disorder with sertraline results in a  significant घटी of the क्रमांक of दहशत हमले  and in improved quality of life .
For  obsessive-compulsive विकार , sertraline is नहीं as प्रभावी as संज्ञानात्मक behavioral चिकित्सा  ; the best results have been achieved by combining these two treatments .
Although approved  लिये सोशल phobia और posttraumatic तनाव विकार  , sertraline leads to only modest improvement in these conditions .
Sertraline also alleviates the  लक्षण of premenstrual dysphoric विकार और can be प्रयुक्त in sub-therapeutic  doses or intermittently for its treatment .
Sertraline shares the common side effects and contraindications  of अन्य ssris , साथ ऊँची दरों of मतली , अतिसार , अनिद्रा , और  sexual side effects ; however , it does not cause weight gain , and its effects on both cognition and vigilance are relatively mild .
In  गर्भवती महिलाओं लेने sertraline , the ड्रग थी उपस्थित in significant  concentrations in fetal blood , and was also associated with a higher rate of various birth defects .
Similarly to other antidepressants , the use  of sertraline लिये अवसाद may be संबद्ध साथ a उच्चतर रेट  of suicidality .
The Five Heartbeats is a 1991 musical drama  फिल्मी निर्देशित by रॉबर्ट टाउनसेंड , जो co-wrote the स्क्रिप्ट साथ  Keenan Ivory Wayans .
Distributed by 20th Century Fox , the film 's main cast includes Townsend , Michael Wright , Leon Robinson ,  हैरी J. lennix , tico कुएं , हेरोल्ड निकोलस of the निकोलस भाइयो , और  Diahann Carroll .
The plot of the film ( which is loosely based on the lives of several artists : The Dells , The Temptations , Four  टॉप , विल्सन पिकेट , जेम्स भूरा , फ्रेंकी lymon , sam cooke और अन्य ) फ़ॉलो the  three decade career of the R & B vocal group The Five Heartbeats .
The film depicts the rise and fall of a Motown inspired  आत्मा अधिनियम through the आँखें of the फिल्मी 's प्रमुख समर्थक , डोनाल्ड `` बतख '' matthews ( portrayed by टाउनसेंड ) , जो serves  as a narrator throughout the film .
However , a majority of the cinema is  प्रस्तुत in a लगातार समय लकीर as opposed to परंपरागत  flash backs .
The film includes a significant amount of  असली म्यूज़िक conceived by विभिन्न कलाकारों लिये the फिल्मी 's साउंडट्रैक , सहित singles ऐसे as `` a दिल  Is a House for Love `` , `` We Have n't Finished Yet '' , and `` Nothing But Love '' .
The film was released to most North American audiences March 29 , 1991 however it was not made available to  ऑडियंस in अन्य महाद्वीपों जबतक 2002 जब a dvd थी released prior to  another DVD release in 2006 for the film 's 15th anniversary .
the फिल्म प्राप्त मिश्रित  reviews from critics .
Secretariat ( March 30 , 1970 –  अक्तूबर 4 , 1989 ) थी an अमरीकी thoroughbred racehorse कि in 1973 became  the first U.S . Triple Crown champion in 25 years .
He set race records in all three events in the Series — the Kentucky Derby (  1:59.4 ) , the preakness stakes ( 1:53 ) , और the belmont stakes ( 2:24  ) — records that still stand today .
He is considered  to be एक of the महानतम thoroughbreds  of all time .
In 1999 , ESPN ranked Secretariat the 35th best athlete of the  20th सदी , the उच्चतम रैंकिंग racehorse on the सूची url_http  .
He ranked second behind Man o ' War in The Blood-Horse 's List of the  शीर्ष 100 u.S. racehorses of the 20th सदी  .
Secretariat was sired by Bold Ruler out of  somethingroyal , by princequillo  .
He was  foaled at the मर्ग in कैरोलीन काउंटी  , Virginia .
Like his famous predecessor Man o ' War ,  सचिवालय थी a विशाल शाहबलूत टट्टू और थी दिए the वही उपनाम  , `` Big Red . ''
Secretariat  's grandsire , nasrullah , is भी the great-great-grandsire  of 1977 Triple Crown winner Seattle Slew .
Owned by Penny Chenery  , he थी प्रशिक्षित by lucien laurin और मुख्यतः ridden by कनाडाई jockey रॉन turcotte ,  along with apprentice jockey Paul Feliciano ( first two races ) , and veteran Eddie Maple ( last race ) .
He raced in  chenery 's मर्ग stable 's ब्लू और श्वेत checkered  colors and his groom was Eddie Sweat .
Secretariat stood approximately tall ,  और weighed , साथ a 75-inch girth  , in his racing prime .
a ठेठ 12 v  , 40 Ah Lead-acid car battery
An  ऑटोमोटिव बैटरी is a प्रकार of rechargeable बैटरी कि  supplies electric energy to an automobile .
Usually this refers to an SLI battery ( starting , lighting ,  प्रज्वलन ) to शक्ति the प्रारंभ मोटर , the लाइट्स , और the प्रज्वलन प्रणाली  of a vehicle’s engine .
Automotive SLI  बैटरी हैं प्रायः lead-acid प्रकार , और हैं बना of छह  galvanic cells in series to provide a 12 volt system .
Each cell provides 2.1 volts for a total  of 12.6 वोल्ट at पूरा चार्ज .
Heavy vehicles such as highway trucks or tractors , often equipped with diesel engines , may  have दो बैटरी in श्रेणी लिये a 24 वोल्ट प्रणाली , or may have समानांतर  strings of batteries .
Lead-acid batteries are made up of plates of lead  और पृथक प्लेटों of सीसे डाइऑक्साइड , जिससे हैं submerged into an electrolyte  solution of about 38 % sulfuric acid and 62 % water .
This causes a chemical  प्रतिक्रिया कि रिलीज electrons , allowing  them to flow through conductors to produce electricity .
As the  बैटरी discharges , the एसिड of the electrolyte प्रतिक्रियाएँ साथ  the materials of the plates , changing their surface to lead sulfate .
When the battery is recharged , the chemical reaction is  reversed : the सीसे सल्फेट reforms into सीसे डाइऑक्साइड  and lead .
साथ the प्लेटों लौटी to उनके असली  condition , the process may now be repeated .
Battery recycling of automotive  बैटरी reduces the need लिये संसाधन जरूरी लिये manufacture of नई बैटरी ,  diverts toxic lead from landfills , and prevents risk of improper disposal .
full-time नियुक्ति is नियुक्ति in जिससे a व्यक्ति works  a minimum number of hours defined as such by his/her employer .
Full-time employment often comes with benefits that are not typically offered to part-time , temporary , or  लचीली मजदूर , ऐसे as सालाना  leave , sickleave , and health insurance .
Full-time jobs are  प्रायः माना  careers .
वे generally अदा  more than part-time jobs , and usually carry more hours per week .
The Fair Labor Standards Act ( FLSA ) does  नहीं define full-time नियुक्ति  or part-time employment .
This is a  पदार्थ generally to be संकल्पित by the नियोक्ता  ( US Department of Labor ) .
The definition by employer  can vary और is generally प्रकाशित in a कम्पनी  's Employee Handbook .
Companies commonly require from 30–35 or 40 hours per week to be defined  as full-time और इसलिए योग्य लिये लाभ  .
Full-Time  औकात varies between कम्पनी और is प्रायः आधारित on  the shift the employee must work during each work week .
The `` standard '' work week consists of five eight-hour  दिनों , commonly परोसा between 9:00am to 5:00pm totaling  40 hours .
While a four-day week generally consists  of चार ten-hour दिनों ; it may भी consist of as छोटी as नौ घंटों  for a total of a 36 hour work week .
Twelve-hour shifts are often three days per week , unless  the कम्पनी रै the इरादे of paying आउट the कर्मचारी  overtime .
Overtime  is legally सशुल्क आउट anytime an कर्मचारी works अधिक  than 40 hours per week .
The legal minimum for overtime  starts at आधार अदा + one-half  .
The increased payout is  माना to compensate थोड़ा लिये the increased थकान  which a person experiences on such long shifts .
Shifts can also be very  irregular , as in खुदरा , लकिन हैं स्टिल full-time if the जरूरी  number of hours is reached .
There are some situations  जहाँ a व्यक्ति जो needs full-time कार्य is dropped to part-time , जिससे is sometimes  a form of constructive dismissal to avoid paying unemployment benefits to a laid-off worker .
Seahorse is  the शीर्षक दिए to 54 प्रजाति of समुद्री  fish in the genus Hippocampus .
`` Hippocampus '' comes from the  प्राचीन यूनानी hippos अर्थ `` घोड़ा '' और kampos  meaning `` sea monster '' .
The Controlled Substances Act ( CSA )  थी enacted into विधि by the कॉंग्रेस of the संयुक्त राज्य  as Title II of the Comprehensive Drug Abuse Prevention and Control Act of 1970 .
The CSA is the federal U.S. drug  नीति अंतर्गत जिससे the manufacture , importation , कब्ज़ा  , use and distribution of certain substances is regulated .
The Act also served as the national implementing legislation  लिये the सिंगल सम्मेलन on narcotic दवाएँ  .
The legislation created five Schedules (  classifications ) , साथ varying योग्यता लिये a पदार्थ to be शामिल  in each .
Two federal agencies , the Drug Enforcement Administration and the Food and Drug Administration , determine which substances are added to or removed from the various schedules , though the statute passed by Congress created the initial listing , and Congress has sometimes scheduled other substances through legislation such as the Hillory J. Farias and Samantha Reid Date-Rape Prevention Act of 2000 ,  जिससे लगाई गामा hydroxybutyrate in अनुसूची i . वर्गीकरण निर्णय हैं जरूरी to be बना on मापदण्ड सहित संभावित लिये गाली ( an अपरिभाषित पद ) , फिलहाल स्वीकृत चिकित्सा उपयोग in उपचार in the संयुक्त राज्य  , and international treaties .
माया numerals
Maya numerals are a vigesimal ( base -  बीस ) numeral प्रणाली प्रयुक्त by the pre-columbian  Maya civilization .
The numerals are made  up of तीन प्रतीकों ; शून्य ( शेल आकार ) , एक  ( a dot ) and five ( a bar ) .
For  उदाहरण , तेरह is लिखा as तीन  dots in a horizontal row above two horizontal lines stacked above each other .
Lyndon Baines Johnson ( August 27 , 1908 – January 22 , 1973 ) , often referred to as LBJ , was the 36th President of the United States (  1963–1969 ) , a स्थिति he assumed बाद उसके सेवा as the 37th वाइस अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य ( 1961–1963  ) .
He is one of only four people who  परोसा in सब चार निर्वाचित संघीय कार्यालयों of the संयुक्त राज्य  : Representative , Senator , Vice President , and President .
Johnson , a Democrat from Texas , served as a United  राज्य प्रतिनिधि इससे 1937–1949 और as a सीनेटर इससे 1949–1961 , सहित छह सालो as संयुक्त राज्य सीनेट बहुमत नेता , दो as सीनेट  Minority Leader and two as Senate Majority Whip .
After campaigning unsuccessfully for the Democratic nomination in 1960 , Johnson was asked  by जॉन F. कैनेडी to be उसके कार्यशील mate लिये the  1960 presidential election .
Johnson succeeded to the presidency following the assassination of John F. Kennedy on November 22 , 1963 ,  समाप्त कैनेडी 's पद और थी निर्वाचित अध्यक्ष in उसके अपना सही , जीतना by a विशाल हाशिया  over Barry Goldwater in the 1964 election .
Johnson was greatly supported by the Democratic Party and as President , he was responsible for designing the `` Great Society `` legislation that included laws that upheld  सिविल अधिकारों , पब्लिक प्रसारण , medicare , medicaid , पर्यावरणीय सुरक्षा , सहायता to शिक्षा , और उसके `` युद्ध on गरीबी .  ''
Johnson was  प्रसिद्ध लिये उसके domineering व्यक्तित्व और the `` जॉनसन उपचार , '' उसके coercion of शक्तिशाली  politicians in order to advance legislation .
Meanwhile , Johnson escalated American involvement in the Vietnam War , from 16,000 American advisors/soldiers in 1963 to 550,000  कॉम्बैट सैनिकों in जल्दी 1968 , as अमरीकी  casualties soared and the peace process bogged down .
The involvement stimulated a large angry  antiwar गति आधारित विशेषकर on विश्वविद्यालयों campuses in the  U.S. and abroad .
Summer riots broke  आउट in सबसे प्रमुख शहरों बाद 1965 , और अपराधों दरों soared , as  his opponents raised demands for `` law and order '' policies .
The Democratic Party split in  अनेक feuding गिरोहों , और बाद जॉनसन किया poorly in the  1968 New Hampshire primary , he ended his bid for reelection .
रिपब्लिकन रिचर्ड  Nixon was elected to succeed him .
Historians argue that Johnson 's presidency  चिह्नित the शिखर of आधुनिक उदारतावाद in the संयुक्त राज्य बाद the नई  Deal era .
Johnson is ranked favorably by  कुछ इतिहासकारों क्युकी of उसके घरेलू  policies .
Progesterone also known as P4 ( pregn-4-ene-3,20-dione ) is a C-21 steroid hormone  शामिल in the मादा menstrual साईकिल , गर्भावस्था ( supports gestation ) और  embryogenesis of humans and other species .
Progesterone belongs to a class of  हार्मोन पुकारा progestogens , और  is the major naturally occurring human progestogen .
बिग बर्ड is a समर्थक  of the children 's television show Sesame Street .
Officially performed by Caroll Spinney since 1969 , he is an  eight-foot two-inch ( 249 cm ) लम्बा उज्जवल primrose-yellow बर्ड  .
He can  रोलर स्केट , बर्फ स्केट , नृत्य , गाओ , लिखें काव्य , चित्रण  and even ride a unicycle .
But despite this wide array of talents , he is prone to frequent misunderstandings , on one occasion even singing the alphabet as one big long word ( from  the सोंग पुकारा `` abc-def-ghi , '' सुनाया `` ab-keddef-gajihkel-monop-quristuv-wixyz  '' ) , pondering what it could ever mean .
He lives  in a विशाल घोंसला पीछे the 123 तिल  Street brownstone and has a teddy bear named Radar .
Webtrends  is a निजी कम्पनी headquartered in पोर्टलैंड  , Oregon , United States .
It provides web ,  सोशल , और मोबाईल analytics और अन्य  software solutions related to marketing intelligence .
The  कम्पनी थी संस्थापित in 1993 और अभी serves अधिक than 10,000 विशाल और छोटी कड़s.  < ref name='Intelligent Enterprise 2007-05-21 ' >
The Second Crusade ( 1145–1149 ) was the  दूसरी प्रमुख crusade शुभारम्भ इससे यूरोपीय  .
the दूसरी crusade थी प्रारंभ in जवाब to the पतन of the काउंटी  of Edessa the previous year to the forces of Zengi .
the काउंटी था महरूम संस्थापित दौरान the  First Crusade ( 1096–1099 ) by Baldwin of Boulogne in 1098 .
While it was the  पहला जेहादी राज्य to be संस्थापित , it  was also the first to fall .
The Second Crusade was announced by Pope  यूजीन iii , और थी the पहला of the क्रूसेड to be led by यूरोपीय किंग्स  , namely Louis VII of France and Conrad III of Germany , with help from a number of other European nobles .
The armies of the two kings  marched separately आरपार  Europe .
After crossing Byzantine territory into Anatolia ,  दोनो सेना यहूद separately पराजित by the seljuq turks  .
The main  पश्चिमी ईसाई सोर्स , odo of deuil , और syriac ईसाई स्त्रोत अर्जी कि the बीज़ान्टिन सम्राट मैनुएल i comnenus secretly  hindered the crusaders ' progress , particularly in Anatolia where he is alleged to have deliberately ordered Turks to attack them .
Louis and Conrad and the remnants of their armies  पहुँचे जेरूसलम और , in 1148  , participated in an ill-advised attack on Damascus .
The crusade in the east was a failure for the  crusaders और a ग्रेट विजय लिये  the Muslims .
It would ultimately have a key influence on the fall  of जेरूसलम और दे वृद्धि to the तीसरा crusade at the समाप्त of  the 12th century .
The only success of the Second Crusade came to a combined force of 13,000 Flemish ,  frisian , नॉर्मन , अंग्रेज़ी , स्कॉटिश , और जर्मनी crusaders in 1147  .
Travelling from  इंग्लैण्ड , by जलयान , to the पावन जमीन , the फौज रोका और helped  the smaller ( 7,000 ) Portuguese army in the capture of Lisbon , expelling its Moorish occupants .
Wal-Mart Stores , Inc. ( )  , ब्रांडेड as walmart , is an अमरीकी बहुराष्ट्रीय खुदरा निगम  that runs chains of large discount department stores and warehouse stores .
The company is the world 's third  largest पब्लिक निगम , according to the सौभाग्य वैश्विक 500 सूची in 2012 , the biggest निजी नियोक्ता in  the world with over two million employees , and is the largest retailer in the world .
Walmart remains a  family-owned कारोबार , as the कम्पनी is नियंत्रित by the वाल्टन परिवार , जो  own a 48 percent stake in Walmart .
It is also one of the  संसार 's सबसे  valuable companies .
The company was founded by Sam Walton in 1962 ,  incorporated on अक्तूबर 31 , 1969 , और सरेआम traded on the नई यॉर्क भण्डार एक्सचेंज  in 1972 .
It is  headquartered in bentonville  , Arkansas .
Walmart  is भी the largest  grocery retailer in the United States .
In 2009 , it generated 51 percent of  इसके us $ 258 अरब बिक्री in the u.S. इससे किराना कारोबार  .
it भी owns और operates the sam 's क्लबों खुदरा  warehouses in North America .
By 1988 , Wal-Mart was the most profitable retailer in the US  , और by नवम्बर 1990 , it outsold k-mart  .
By 1991 it outsold Sears  in खुदरा , बनाना it अमेरिका 's largest रिटेलर , a भेद  it still holds .
Walmart has  8,500 स्टोर्स in 15 देशों , अंतर्गत  55 different names .
The company  operates अंतर्गत the  Walmart name in the United States , including the 50 states and Puerto Rico .
It operates in Mexico as Walmex , in the United Kingdom as  asda , in जापानी as seiyu , और in इण्डिया as बेहतरीन  Price .
It has wholly owned operations in  अर्जेंटीना , ब्राज़ील , और  Canada .
Walmart 's investments outside North America have had mixed results : its  परिचालन in the संयुक्त किंगडम , दक्षिण अमेरिका , और चीन  are highly successful , whereas ventures in Germany and South Korea were unsuccessful .
Robert William Gary Moore ( 4 April 1952 – 6  फ़रवरी 2011 ) , थी a उत्तरी आयरिश संगीतकार , सबसे widely recognised  as a singer and guitarist .
In a career dating back to the 1960s , Moore  निभाई साथ कलाकारों सहित फिल lynott और ब्रायन downey दौरान उसके  teens , leading him to memberships with the Irish bands Skid Row and Thin Lizzy on three separate occasions .
Moore shared  the स्टेज साथ ऐसे ब्लूज़ और चट्टान luminaries  as B.B . King , Albert King , Colosseum II , George Harrison and Greg Lake , as well as having a successful solo career .
He guested on a number of albums  अंकित by ऊँची प्रोफ़ाइल संगीतकारों , सहित a कैमियो रूप playing the सीसे गिटार सोलो on `` वो 's my baby ``  from Traveling Wilburys Vol . 3 .
An  उदाहरण of रैक आरोहित  servers
A web hosting service is a type of  अंतरजाल होस्टिंग सेवा कि allows individuals और संगठन to मेक उनके  website accessible via the World Wide Web .
Web hosts are companies that provide space on a server owned or leased for use by  क्लाइंट , as खूब as providing अंतरजाल कनेक्टिविटी , typically in a आंकड़ा  center .
वेब होस्ट can भी provide आंकड़ा बीच स्पेस और कनेक्टिविटी to the अंतरजाल लिये अन्य सर्वर  located in their data center , called colocation , also known as Housing in Latin America or France .
The  पैमाना of वेब होस्टिंग सेवाएं  varies greatly .
The most basic is web page and small-scale file hosting , where  फाइलें can be अपलोड via संचिका ट्रांसफ़र प्रोटोकॉल ( एफटीपी ) or a वेब इंटरफ़ेस  .
The files are usually  वितरित to the वेब `` as is  '' or with minimal processing .
Many  अंतरजाल सेवा प्रदाताओं ( isps )  offer this service free to subscribers .
Individuals and  संगठन may भी obtain  Web page hosting from alternative service providers .
Personal  वेब साईट होस्टिंग is typically फ़्री  , advertisement-sponsored , or inexpensive .
Business web site hosting often has a higher expense  depending upon the आकार और प्रकार of the जालस्थल  .
Single page hosting is  generally sufficient लिये निजी  web pages .
A complex  साईट काल्स लिये a अधिक व्यापक पैकेज कि provides डेटाबेस  support and application development platforms ( e.g . PHP , Java , Ruby on Rails , ColdFusion , or ASP.NET ) .
These facilities allow  ग्राहक to लिखें or स्थापना स्क्रिप्ट लिये अनुप्रयोग जैसे forums और सामग्री  management .
Also , Secure  sockets परत ( एसएसएल ) is typically  used for e-commerce .
The host may also provide an interface or control  फलक लिये मैनेजिंग the वेब सर्वर और installing  scripts , as well as other modules and service applications like e-mail .
Some  होस्ट specialize in निश्चित तन्त्र or सेवाएं ( e.g . e-commerce ) , जिससे हैं commonly  used by larger companies that outsource network infrastructure .
Obstetrics ( from the Latin obstare , `` to stand by '' ) is the medical specialty dealing with the care of all women 's  reproductive tracts और उनके children दौरान गर्भावस्था ( prenatal काल ) , प्रसव और the postnatal काल  .
Many obstetricians are also  स्त्रीरोग , अर्थ वे perform in दोनो specialties  .
In the United States ,  ये physicians हैं commonly referred  to as OB/GYNs .
The Wright brothers , Orville ( August 19 , 1871 – January 30 , 1948 ) and Wilbur ( April 16 , 1867 – May 30 , 1912 ) , were two  अमरीकी भाइयो , आविष्कारक , और विमानन pioneers जो यहूद credited साथ inventing और भवन the संसार 's पहला कामयाब वायुयान और बनाना the पहला नियंत्रित , संचालित और sustained  heavier-than-air human flight , on December 17 , 1903 .
From 1905 to 1907 , the brothers developed their  उड़ती यंत्र into the पहला व्यावहारिक  fixed-wing aircraft .
Although not the first to build and fly experimental aircraft ,  the राइट भाइयो यहूद the पहला to इफ़तेरा वायुयान नियंत्रण कि बना  fixed-wing powered flight possible .
The brothers ' fundamental breakthrough was their invention of  three-axis कंट्रोल , जिससे सक्रिय the पायलट to steer the वायुयान effectively  and to maintain its equilibrium .
This  विधि became मानक और remains मानक on  fixed-wing aircraft of all kinds .
From the beginning of their aeronautical work , the  राइट भाइयो केन्द्रित on विकासशील a विश्वसनीय विधि of पायलट कंट्रोल  as the key to solving `` the flying problem '' .
This  दृष्टिकोण differed significantly इससे अन्य experimenters of the समय जो put  more emphasis on developing powerful engines .
Using a small homebuilt wind tunnel , the Wrights also collected more accurate data than any before , enabling them to design and  निर्माण विंग्स और propellers कि यहूद अधिक कुशल than कोई पहले  .
Their first U.S. patent , 821,393 , did not claim invention of a flying machine , but rather , the invention  of a प्रणाली of aerodynamic कंट्रोल कि manipulated a उड़ती यंत्र  's surfaces .
They gained  the mechanical कौशल अनिवार्य लिये उनके कामयाबी by working लिये सालो in उनके दूकान  with printing presses , bicycles , motors , and other machinery .
Their work with  साइकिल in particular बहकावे उनके विश्वास कि an  unstable vehicle like a flying machine could be controlled and balanced with practice .
From 1900 until their first powered flights in late 1903 , they  conducted extensive glider परीक्षण कि भी विकसित उनके कौशल as  pilots .
Their bicycle shop employee Charlie Taylor became an important part of the team , building their  पहला वायुयान इंजन in बंद सहयोग साथ  the brothers .
The Wright  भाइयो ' औकात as आविष्कारक of the वायुयान रै महरूम  subject to counter-claims by various parties .
Much controversy persists over the  अनेक स्पर्धा दावा of जल्दी aviators  .
America 's Next  शीर्ष मॉडल , साईकिल 12 is the बारहवीं साईकिल of अमेरिका  's Next Top Model and the sixth season to air on The CW network .
It premiered  on कूच 4  , 2009 .
The cycle 's  कैच phrase is `` मिलेंगी in the  Fold . ''
The cycle 's promotional song  is महिला गागा 's ``  The Fame '' .
The prizes for  इस साईकिल are:
A modeling  अनुबंध साथ elite मॉडल  Management .
A  फ़ैशन स्प्रेड और कवर  in Seventeen .
A 100,000  अनुबंध साथ covergirl कॉस्मेटिक्स  .
The  पहला हाफ of the साईकिल took प्लेस in नई  York City , moving the show back from Los Angeles last season .
The  अंतरराष्ट्रीय गंतव्य लिये इस साईकिल is são  Paulo , Brazil , the series first visit to South America .
the क्रमांक of लड़कियों थी घटाया to 13 , the पहला समय चूंकि साईकिल  9 , after being maintained at 14 in the last two cycles .
This was the last time  paulina porizkova participated as न्यायधीश  .
The winner was 20-year-old  teyona एंडरसन इससे woodstown , नई जर्सी  .
This season averaged 4.35  लाख दर्शक प्रति एपीसोड  .
Exxon Mobil Corporation , or ExxonMobil ,  is an अमरीकी बहुराष्ट्रीय आयल और गैस निगम headquartered  in Irving , Texas , United States .
It is a direct descendant of John D. Rockefeller 's  मानक आयल कम्पनी , और थी formed on नवम्बर 30 , 1999 , by the विलय of exxon और  Mobil .
It is affiliated with  इम्पीरियल आयल जिससे operates in कनाडा  .
ExxonMobil is the world 's largest company by revenue and in 2013 , became  the largest सरेआम traded कम्पनी by मार्केट capitalization  in the world .
The company is ranked # 5 globally  in फोर्ब्स वैश्विक 2000 सूची in 2013 .
Exxon Mobil 's reserves were 72 billion oil-equivalent barrels at the end of 2007 and , at then ( 2007 ) rates of production ,  हैं अपेक्षित to पिछला over 14 सालो  .
With 37 oil refineries in 21 countries constituting a  संयुक्त रोज़ शोधन क्षमता of , exxon mobil is the largest refiner in the संसार ,  a title that was also associated with Standard Oil since its incorporation in 1870 .
ExxonMobil is the largest of the  संसार 's supermajors साथ रोज़ उत्पादन of 3.921 लाख  BOE ( barrels of oil equivalent ) .
In 2008 , this was approximately 3 % of world  उत्पादन , जिससे is कम than अनेक of the largest state-owned पेट्रोलियम  companies .
When ranked by oil  और गैस reserves it is 14th in the संसार साथ  less than 1 % of the total .
A 2012 article in The Daily Telegraph says that ExxonMobil has `` grown into  एक of the planet’s सबसे hated corporations , समर्थ to determine अमरीकी विदेशी नीति और  the fate of entire nations '' .
In terms of its environmental record , ExxonMobil increasingly drills in terrains  leased to उन्हें by dictatorships , ऐसे as those in chad और भूमध्यरेखीय  Guinea .
ली रेमंड , the corporation’s मुख्य कार्यपालिका जबतक 2005 ,  was `` notoriously sceptical about climate change and disliked government interference at any level '' .
The company was widely criticized for its  slow जवाब to सफ़ाई इसके 1989 valdez आयल spill in अलास्का  .
इस आलेख is परिचय the ग्लोब थिएटर  of Shakespeare .
For the  आधुनिक पुनर्निर्माण in  London , see Shakespeare 's Globe .
For other uses  , देखिए ग्लोब थिएटर  ( disambiguation ) .
The  ग्लोब थिएटर थी a थिएटर in लंदन  associated with William Shakespeare .
It was built in 1599 by Shakespeare 's playing company , the Lord Chamberlain 's Men , on land owned by Thomas Brend and inherited by  उसके बेटे , निकोलस brend और पोता सर मैथ्यू brend , और थी नष्ट  by fire on 29 June 1613 .
A second Globe Theatre was built on the same  साईट by जून 1614 और बंद in 1642  .
A modern  पुनर्निर्माण of the ग्लोब , नामित `` शेक्सपियर 's ग्लोब  `` , opened in 1997 approximately from the site of the original theatre .
It 's a Wonderful Life is a 1946 American Christmas drama film produced and directed by Frank Capra , based on the short story `` The  महानतम तोहफा `` , जिससे फिलिप वैन doren stern लिखा in 1939 और privately प्रकाशित in 1945  .
the फिल्मी is माना एक of the सबसे loved films in अमरीकी सिनेमा और रै become परंपरागत  viewing during the Christmas season , alongside popular classics such as Charles Dickens ' A Christmas Carol .
The film stars James Stewart as George Bailey , a man who has given up  उसके सपनो in अनुक्रम to सहायता अन्य और जिनकी निकट आत्महत्या on क्रिसमस संध्या brings परिचय the हस्तक्षेप  of his guardian angel , Clarence Odbody ( Henry Travers ) .
Clarence shows  जार्ज सब the जीवनदान he रै छुआ और कैसा अलग जीवन in उसके जातियाँ  of Bedford Falls would be had he never been born .
Despite initially performing poorly at  the बक्सा दफ्तर due to ऊँची उत्पादन लागत और stiff प्रतियोगिता at the समय of इसके रिलीज , the फिल्मी रै आइये to be regarded  as a classic and is a staple of Christmas television around the world .
Theatrically , the film 's break-even point was actually $ 6.3  लाख , लगभग twice the उत्पादन लागत , a फिगर it never आए बंद to achieving  in its initial release .
An appraisal in 2006 reported :  `` हालांकि it थी नहीं the पूरा बक्सा दफ्तर विफलता कि आज everyone मानता ... it थी initially a प्रमुख निराशा  and confirmed , at least to the studios , that Capra was no longer capable of turning out the populist features that made his films the must-see , money-making events they once were . ''
The film was nominated for five Oscars and has been recognized by the American Film Institute as one of the 100 best  अमरीकी films कभी बना , रखकर क्रमांक 11 on इसके आरंभिक 1998 महानतम फिल्म सूची , और होता भी प्लेस क्रमांक एक on इसके सूची of the सबसे प्रेरणादायक  American films of all time .
आंकड़ा गोदाम  Overview
In computing , a  आंकड़ा गोदाम or एंटरप्राइज़ आंकड़ा गोदाम ( dw , dwh , or edw ) is a डेटाबेस  used for reporting and data analysis .
It is a central repository of data  जिससे is निर्मित by integrating आंकड़ा इससे एक  or more disparate sources .
Data warehouses store current as well  as ऐतिहासिक आंकड़ा और हैं प्रयुक्त लिये बनाना चर्चित रिपोर्ट्स लिये वरिष्ठ प्रबन्धन रिपोर्टिंग ऐसे  as annual and quarterly comparisons .
The  आंकड़ा भंडारित in the गोदाम हैं अपलोड इससे the  operational systems ( such as marketing , sales etc. , shown in the figure to the right ) .
The  आंकड़ा may pass through an operational  data store for additional operations before they are used in the DW for reporting .
The typical ETL -based data  गोदाम उपयोग स्टेजिंग , आंकड़ा संयोजन , और अभिगम परतों to  house its key functions .
The staging layer or staging database  स्टोर्स कच्चा आंकड़ा निकाली इससे प्रत्येक of the disparate  source data systems .
The integration layer integrates the disparate data sets by transforming the data  इससे the स्टेजिंग परत प्रायः storing इस रूपांतरित आंकड़ा in an operational  data store ( ODS ) database .
The integrated data are then moved  to yet another डेटाबेस , प्रायः पुकारा the आंकड़ा गोदाम डेटाबेस , जहाँ the आंकड़ा is arranged into hierarchical  groups often called dimensions and into facts and aggregate facts .
The combination of  तथ्य और आयाम is sometimes  called a star schema .
The access layer helps  उपयोक्ता retrieve आंकड़ा .
A data warehouse constructed from an integrated data source systems  करता नहीं आवश्यकता etl , स्टेजिंग databases , or operational आंकड़ा स्टोर databases  .
The integrated data  सोर्स प्रणालियों may be माना to be a भाग of  a distributed operational data store layer .
Data federation  विधि or आंकड़ा आभासीकरण विधि may be प्रयुक्त to अभिगम the वितरित एकीकृत सोर्स आंकड़ा प्रणालियों to consolidate  and aggregate data directly into the data warehouse database tables .
Unlike the ETL-based data warehouse  , the एकीकृत सोर्स आंकड़ा प्रणालियों और the आंकड़ा गोदाम हैं सब एकीकृत चूंकि वहीँ  is no transformation of dimensional or reference data .
This integrated data warehouse architecture supports the drill down from the aggregate data of the  आंकड़ा गोदाम to the transactional आंकड़ा of the एकीकृत सोर्स आंकड़ा प्रणालियों  .
Data warehouses can be  subdivided into आंकड़ा  marts .
Data marts store subsets of  आंकड़ा इससे a गोदाम  .
This definition of the data  गोदाम focuses on आंकड़ा भंडार  .
The main source of the data is cleaned , transformed , cataloged and made available for use by managers and  अन्य कारोबार पेशेवर लिये आंकड़ा खनन , ऑनलाइन विश्लेषणात्मक प्रसंस्करण , मार्केट शोध और  decision support ( Marakas & O'Brien 2009 ) .
However , the means to retrieve and analyze data , to extract ,  रूपांतरण और लोड आंकड़ा , और to मैनेज the आंकड़ा शब्दकोष  are also considered essential components of a data warehousing system .
Many  सन्दर्भ to आंकड़ा warehousing उपयोग  this broader context .
Thus , an expanded definition for data warehousing includes business intelligence tools , tools  to निकालें , रूपांतरण और लोड आंकड़ा into the repository , और  tools to manage and retrieve metadata .
पोर्टलैंड स्टोन पाषाण on the आइल  of Portland , England
An abandoned  निर्माण कुल पाषाण निकट एडिलेड ,  South Australia
A quarry is a type of open-pit mine  इससे जिससे चट्टान or खनिज हैं निकाली  .
Quarries are generally used for  extracting भवन सामग्री , ऐसे as आयाम स्टोन , निर्माण  aggregate , riprap , sand , and gravel .
They are often collocated with concrete and asphalt plants due to the requirement  लिये विशाल amounts of कुल in  those materials .
खोलें खानों कि उपज खनिज हैं typically  referred to as open pit mines .
The word  पाषाण can शामिल भूमिगत quarrying  for stone , such as Bath stone .
Mormons (  ) हैं a धार्मिक और सांस्कृतिक समूह सम्बन्धित to mormonism , the प्रिंसिपल शाखा of the latter दिन संत गति  of Restorationist Christianity , which began with the visions of Joseph Smith in upstate New York during the 1820s .
After Smith 's death in 1844 the Mormons followed Brigham Young  to कया होता become the यूटा  Territory .
Today  mormons हैं समझा to be सदस्यों of the गिरिजाघर of यीशु मसीह of latter-day  Saints ( LDS Church ) .
कुछ mormons हैं भी either स्वतंत्र  or non-practicing .
The center of Mormon cultural influence  is in यूटा , और उत्तर अमेरिका रै अधिक mormons than कोई अन्य महाद्वीप  , though the majority of Mormons live outside the United States .
Mormons have  विकसित a दमदार भाव of communality कि तना  from their doctrine and history .
During the 19th century Mormon converts tended to gather to a central geographic  स्थान , और between 1852 और 1890 a अल्पसंख्यक of mormons खुलकर practiced  plural marriage , a form of religious polygamy .
Mormons dedicate large amounts of time and resources to serving in their church , and  अनेक यंग mormons चुनें to serve a full-time proselytizing मिशन  .
Mormons have a health code that  eschews alcoholic पेय , तम्बाकू , कॉफी  , tea , and other addictive substances .
They tend to be very family-oriented , and have strong connections  आरपार पीढियां और साथ विस्तारित परिवार , परावर्तक of उनके विश्वास कि परिवारों  can be sealed together beyond death and throughout eternity .
Mormons also have a strict law of chastity , requiring  abstention इससे यौन संबंध बाहर of विवाह  and strict fidelity within marriage .
mormons self-identify as ईसाई ,  though some of their beliefs differ from mainstream Christianity .
Mormons believe in the Bible , as well as other books of  scripture , ऐसे as the किताब of mormon  .
They have a unique  दृश्य of cosmology , और मानना कि सब लोगों  are spirit-children of God .
Mormons  मानना कि returning to परमेश्वर requires following the उदाहरण of यीशु  Christ , and accepting his atonement through ordinances such as baptism .
They  मानना कि मसीह 's गिरिजाघर थी लौटी through जोसेफ  Smith , and is guided by living prophets and apostles .
Central to Mormon faith is the belief that God  बोलती to उसके children और जवाब उनके  prayers .
In financial accounting , assets are  आर्थिक संसाधन  .
Anything tangible or intangible that is capable  of होने स्वामित्व or नियंत्रित to उपज मान और कि is आयोजित to  have positive economic value is considered an asset .
बस stated , एसेट represent मान of स्वामित्व कि can be परिवर्तित  into cash ( although cash itself is also considered an asset ) .
The balance  चादर of a कड़ रिकॉर्ड  the monetaryJ .
G. Siegel , N. Dauber & J. K. Shim , `` The Vest Pocket CPA '' , Wiley ,  2005.there हैं अलग विधि of assessing  the monetary value of the assets recorded on the Balance Sheet .
In some cases , the Historical Cost is used ; such that the value of the asset when  it थी खरीदा in the पास्ट is प्रयुक्त as the मौद्रिक  value .
In  अन्य उदाहरण , the उपस्थित मेला मार्केट मान of the एसेट  is used to determine the value shown on the balance sheet .
मान of the एसेट  owned by the firm .
It is money and other  valuables belonging to an व्यक्तिगत  or business .
Two major asset classes are  ठोस एसेट और intangible  assets .
Tangible  एसेट contain विभिन्न subclasses , सहित वर्तमान  assets and fixed assets.J .
Downes , J.E .  गुडमैन , `` शब्दकोष of वित्त & निवेश शर्तें '' , सामन्त 's वित्तीय मार्गदर्शिका , 2003 वर्तमान एसेट शामिल inventory , जबकि फिक्स्ड एसेट शामिल ऐसे वस्तुएं as इमारतें और उपकरण .J . downes , j.e . गुडमैन ,  `` Dictionary of Finance & Investment Terms '' , Baron 's Financial Guides , 2003 ; and J. G. Siegel , N. Dauber & J. K. Shim , `` The Vest Pocket CPA '' , Wiley , 2005 .
Intangible assets are nonphysical resources and rights that have a value  to the कड़ क्युकी वे दे the कड़ कुछ दयालु of लाभ  in the market place .
Examples of intangible assets are  साख , copyrights , trademarks , patents और कंप्यूटर कार्यक्रम , और वित्तीय एसेट , सहित ऐसे  items as accounts receivable , bonds and stocks .
A neuron ( or ; also known as a neurone or nerve cell ) is  an electrically excitable कोशिका कि प्रक्रियाओं और transmits सूचना  through electrical and chemical signals .
A chemical signal occurs via a synapse  , a specialized कनेक्शन साथ अन्य  cells .
Neurons  कनेक्ट to प्रत्येक अन्य  to form neural networks .
Neurons are the core components of the  बेचैन प्रणाली , जिससे शामिल  the brain , spinal cord , and peripheral ganglia .
A number of specialized types of neurons exist : sensory neurons respond to touch ,  ध्वनि , लाइट और numerous अन्य stimuli affecting कोशिकाएं  of the sensory organs that then send signals to the spinal cord and brain .
Motor neurons receive  सिग्नल इससे the दिमाग और स्पाइनल cord , कारण मांसपेशी  contractions , and affect glands .
interneurons कनेक्ट न्यूरॉन्स to  other neurons within the same region of the brain or spinal cord .
A  ठेठ न्यूरॉन possesses a कोशिका देह ( प्रायः  called the soma ) , dendrites , and an axon .
Dendrites are thin  structures कि उठता इससे the कोशिका देह , प्रायः extending लिये सैंकड़ों of micrometres और branching  multiple times , giving rise to a complex `` dendritic tree '' .
An axon  is a खास सेल्यूलर एक्सटेंशन कि arises इससे the कोशिका देह at a साईट पुकारा the axon  hillock and travels for a distance , as far as 1 meter in humans or even more in other species .
the कोशिका देह of a न्यूरॉन अक्सर देता वृद्धि to अनेक dendrites , लकिन  never to more than one axon , although the axon may branch hundreds of times before it terminates .
At the majority of synapses , signals are sent from  the axon of एक न्यूरॉन to a dendrite of another  .
There are , however , many exceptions to these rules : neurons that lack dendrites ,  न्यूरॉन्स कि have no axon , synapses कि कनेक्ट an axon  to another axon or a dendrite to another dendrite , etc .
All neurons are electrically excitable , maintaining voltage gradients across their membranes by means  of metabolically चलित आयन पंपों , जिससे combine साथ आयन चैनल्स अंतःस्थापित in the झिल्ली to generate intracellular-versus-extracellular विशेषज्ञता मतभेद of ions  such as sodium , potassium , chloride , and calcium .
Changes in the cross-membrane voltage  can alter the फलन of voltage-dependent  ion channels .
If the voltage changes by a large  पर्याप्त राशि , an all-or-none electrochemical पल्स पुकारा an कार्रवाई संभावित is उत्पन्न  , which travels rapidly along the cell 's axon , and activates synaptic connections with other cells when it arrives .
Neurons do not  undergo कोशिका प्रभाग  .
In most cases , neurons are  उत्पन्न by खास प्रकार of स्टेम कोशिकाएं  .
Astrocytes , a type of glial cell , have also been observed to turn into  न्यूरॉन्स by पुण्य of the स्टेम कोशिका characteristic pluripotency  .
In humans , neurogenesis largely ceases during adulthood—but in two brain areas , the  हिप्पोकैम्पस और घ्राण बल्ब , वहीँ is दमदार प्रमाण लिये पीढी of  substantial numbers of new neurons .
सुपर कटोरी xliii थी an अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल खेल between the अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल सम्मेलन ( afc ) चैंपियन पिट्सबर्ग स्टीलर्स और the  National Football Conference ( NFC ) champion Arizona Cardinals to decide the National Football League ( NFL ) champion for the 2008 season .
The Steelers defeated the Cardinals  by the स्कोर of 27–23  .
The game was played on February 1 , 2009 , at  रेमंड जेम्स स्टेडियम in tampa , फ्लोरिडा  .
With this win , the  स्टीलर्स became the पहला टोली to जीत छह  Super Bowls .
Pittsburgh , who finished the regular season with a 12–4 record , also won  उनके दूसरी सुपर कटोरी in चार सालो बाद जीतना सुपर कटोरी xl at the  end of the 2005 season .
the कार्डिनल्स डाला the खेल seeking उनके पहला एनएफएल शीर्षक चूंकि 1947  , the longest championship drought in the league .
The club became an unexpected winner during the regular season , compiling a 9–7 record  , और the playoffs साथ the सहायता of सिर कोच केन whisenhunt , जो थी the स्टीलर्स ' अप्रिय समन्वयक in सुपर कटोरी xl , और  the re-emergence of quarterback Kurt Warner , who was the Super Bowl MVP in Super Bowl XXXIV with his former team , St. Louis Rams .
Pittsburgh jumped to a 17–7 halftime lead , aided by linebacker James Harrison  's सुपर कटोरी रिकार्ड 100-yard interception वापसी लिये a touchdown  .
Trailing 20–7 at the  प्रारंभ of the चौथी क्वार्टर , एरिज़ोना scored 16 अनुत्तरित अंक , सहित चौड़ी receiver लैरी fitzgerald 's  64-yard touchdown reception , to take the lead with 2:37 remaining in the game .
But the Steelers  marched 78 गज to स्कोर on चौड़ी receiver santonio  Holmes ' 6-yard game-winning touchdown catch with 35 seconds left .
Holmes , who caught nine passes for 131 yards and a touchdown ,  सहित चार receptions लिये 73 गज on कि फाइनल game-winning  drive , was named Super Bowl MVP .
He became the sixth wide  receiver to जीत the पुरस्कार , और भी थी the तीसरा पिट्सबर्ग receiver  to win the award , following Lynn Swann and Hines Ward .
Despite the global financial crisis and limited amount  of आनुषंगिक festivities कि हैं सामान्यतः आयोजित पहले the खेल , the एनबीसी टेलीविज़न संजाल ब्रॉडकास्ट आकर्षित an औसत u.S. दर्शक of 98.7 लाख दर्शक  , making it the most watched Super Bowl in history to that point .
A diagram of the  इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक वर्णक्रम , प्रर्दशित विभिन्न गुण आरपार the दायरा  of frequencies and wavelengths
The  इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक वर्णक्रम is the दायरा of  all possible frequencies of electromagnetic radiation .
The ``  इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक वर्णक्रम '' of an ऑब्जेक्ट रै a अलग अर्थ , और is बजाय the characteristic  distribution of electromagnetic radiation emitted or absorbed by that particular object .
The electromagnetic spectrum extends from below the low frequencies used for  आधुनिक रेडियो संचार to गामा विकिरण at the short- wavelength ( high-frequency ) समाप्त , thereby covering wavelengths इससे हज़ारों of किलोमीटर bas  to a fraction of the size of an atom .
The limit for long wavelengths is the size  of the ब्रह्मांड itself , जबकि it is विचार कि the छोटी wavelength सीमा is in the vicinity of the प्लांक लंबाई , हालांकि in  principle the spectrum is infinite and continuous .
Most parts of the electromagnetic  वर्णक्रम हैं प्रयुक्त in विज्ञान लिये spectroscopic और अन्य probing interactions  , as ways to study and characterize matter .
In addition  , विकिरण इससे विभिन्न भाग of the वर्णक्रम रै मिला अनेक  other uses for communications and manufacturing ( see electromagnetic radiation for more applications ) .
लेजेंड
marchantia , a liverwort
Bryophyte is a traditional name used to refer to all embryophytes (  जमीन पौधे ) कि do नहीं have सच्चा vascular ऊतक और हैं इसलिए  called ' non-vascular plants ' .
Some bryophytes do have specialized tissues for the transport  of जल ; however चूंकि ये do नहीं contain lignin , वे  are not considered to be true vascular tissue .
Currently  bryophytes हैं विचार नहीं to be a प्राकृतिक or monophyletic समूह ; however  the name is convenient and remains in use as a collective term for mosses , hornworts , and liverworts .
Bryophytes  उपज enclosed reproductive structures ( gametangia और sporangia ) , लकिन वे उपज  neither flowers nor seeds , reproducing via spores .
The term bryophyte comes from Greek  βρύον , bryon , `` tree-moss , oyster-green ''  + φυτόν - phyton `` plant '' .
A bank is a financial institution and a  वित्तीय intermediary कि स्वीकृत जमा और चैनल्स those जमा into lending क्रियाएँ , either सीधे  by loaning or indirectly through capital markets .
A bank is the  कनेक्शन between ग्राहक कि have पूंजी deficits  and customers with capital surpluses .
Due to their influence within a  वित्तीय प्रणाली और an अर्थव्यवस्था , बैंको हैं generally अत्यधिक regulated in सबसे  countries .
Most banks operate under a system known as fractional reserve  बैंकिंग जहाँ वे थाम तभी a छोटी आरक्षित of the निधि deposited और lend आउट the बाकी लिये  profit .
They are generally subject to minimum capital requirements which are based on an international  नियत of पूंजी मानकों , ज्ञात as the basel accords  .
The oldest bank still in existence is Monte dei Paschi di Siena ,  headquartered in सियेना , इटली , जिससे  has been operating continuously since 1472 .
it is followed by berenberg बैंको of हैम्बर्ग (  1590 ) and Sveriges Riksbank of Sweden ( 1668 ) .
बैंकिंग in इसके आधुनिक भाव विकसित in समृद्ध शहरों  of Renaissance Italy , such as Florence , Venice and Genoa .
In the history of banking , a number  of बैंकिंग dynasties —among उन्हें notably medici , fugger , welser , berenberg  , Baring and Rothschild —have played a central role over many centuries .
The Xbox is a video game  कंसोल manufactured by microsoft  .
It was released on November 15 , 2001 in  उत्तर अमेरिका , फ़रवरी 22 , 2002 in जापानी , और कूच  14 , 2002 in Australia and Europe .
It was Microsoft  's पहला foray  into the gaming console market .
As part of the  sixth-generation of गेमिंग , the एक्सबॉक्स competed साथ सोनी 's प्लेस्टेशन 2 , sega 's dreamcast ( जिससे रोका अमरीकी बिक्री  before the Xbox went on sale ) , and Nintendo 's GameCube .
The Xbox was the first console  offered by an अमरीकी कम्पनी बाद the  Atari Jaguar stopped sales in 1996 .
The integrated Xbox Live  सेवा शुभारम्भ in नवम्बर 2002 अनुमत खिलाड़ी to खेल खेल  online with a broadband connection .
It first competed with  dreamcast 's ऑनलाइन सेवा लकिन बाद primarily  competed with PlayStation 2 's online service .
Although these two are free while Xbox Live required a subscription , as well as broadband-only connection which was  नहीं completely अपनाया yet , एक्सबॉक्स सजीव थी a कामयाबी due to बेहतर सर्वर , सुविधाएँ ऐसे as a दोस्त सूची , और पड़ाव शीर्षक जैसे हेलो 2 released in  November 2004 , which is the best-selling Xbox video game and was by far the most popular online game for years .
Xbox 's  successor , the एक्सबॉक्स 360  , was launched in November 2005 .
The Xbox was discontinued in  लेट 2005 in जापानी जहाँ बिक्री यहूद  poor .
It was  discontinued in लेट 2006 in यूरोपीय और  early 2007 in North America .
The last Xbox game in Europe was  टोनी हॉक 's प्रोजेक्ट 8 released in नवम्बर 2006  , and the last game in North America was Madden NFL 09 released in August 2008 .
Support for out-of-warranty Xbox  consoles थी discontinued on कूच 2 , 2009 , stating कि कोई in-warranty  repair now needed will not be undertaken .
Xbox access to Xbox  सजीव थी रोका on अप्रैल 15  , 2010 .
The Gospel According to John ( Greek τὸ κατὰ Ἰωάννην εὐαγγέλιον ) , commonly referred  to as the इन्जील of जॉन or बस जॉन और प्रायः referred to in नई वसीयत स्कॉलरशिप as the चौथी इन्जील , is an खाता of the  public ministry of Jesus .
It begins with the witness and  प्रतिज्ञान by जॉन the बैपटिस्ट और concludes साथ the मौत  , burial , resurrection , and post-resurrection appearances of Jesus .
This account is fourth of the canonical gospels  , बाद the synoptics मैथ्यू ,  Mark and Luke .
states that the book derives from  the गवाही of the ' शिष्य जिसको  Jesus loved . '
Along with Peter , the unnamed  शिष्य is विशेषकर बंद to यीशु , और early-church परंपरा पहचाना उसे as जॉन the  Apostle , one of Jesus ' Twelve Apostles .
The gospel is closely related  in स्टाइल और सामग्री to the तीन surviving epistles of जॉन ऐसे कि टीकाकारों दावत the चार किताबे साथ , yet , according to  most modern scholars , John was not the author of any of these books .
Recent Christian  scripture स्कॉलरशिप अधिक और अधिक रै लगाई जॉन भीतर  a first-century Jewish context .
Raymond E. Brown did pioneering work to trace the  विकास of the परंपरा इससे जिससे the इन्जील  arose .
The discourses seem to be concerned with the actual issues of the  church-and-synagogue बहस at the समय जब the इन्जील थी  written .
It is notable  कि , in the इन्जील , the जातियाँ स्टिल appears to define itself primarily  against Judaism , rather than as part of a wider Christian church .
Though Christianity started as a movement  भीतर judaism , धीरे ईसाइयों और यहूदियों became bitterly  opposed .
John presents a `` higher '' Christology than the synoptics , meaning that it describes Jesus  as the अवतार of the दैवी लोगो through जिसको सब बाते यहूद बना , as the ऑब्जेक्ट of veneration , और अधिक explicitly  as God incarnate .
Only in John  करता यीशु बात at लंबाई परिचय खुद और उसके दैवी  role , often shared with the disciples only .
Against  the synoptics , जॉन focuses largely on अलग चमत्कार ( सहित  resurrecting Lazarus ) , given as signs meant to engender faith .
Synoptic  तत्व ऐसे as parables और  exorcisms are not found in John .
It presents a realized eschatology  in जिससे मोक्ष is already उपस्थित लिये the  believer .
The Plagues of Egypt  ( ) , भी पुकारा the टेन plagues ( ) or the biblical plagues , यहूद टेन calamities कि , according to the biblical किताब of exodus , इसराईल  's God , Yahweh , inflicted upon Egypt to persuade Pharaoh to release the ill-treated Israelites from slavery .
Pharaoh capitulated after  the दसवाँ प्लेग , triggering the  Exodus of the Jewish people .
The plagues were designed to contrast the power of  yahweh साथ the नपुंसकता of मिश्र 's विभिन्न  gods .
Some commentators have associated several  of the plagues साथ निर्णय on विशिष्ट देवताओं संबद्ध  with the Nile , fertility and natural phenomena .
The plagues of Egypt are  भी उल्लेखित in the कुरान ( 7,133–136  ) .
According to the Book of Exodus , God proclaims that all the  देवताओं of मिश्र होगा be judged through the दसवाँ  and final plague:
जॉन मार्टिन 's पेंटिंग of the  plague of hail and fire ( 1823 ) .
A role-playing game ( RPG and sometimes roleplaying game ) is a game  in जिससे खिलाड़ी assume the भूमिकाएँ of वर्ण in a fictional सेटिंग  .
Players take responsibility for acting out these roles within a narrative , either  through शाब्दिक एक्टिंग or through a प्रक्रम of संरचित decision-making or अक्षर विकास  .
Actions taken within  अनेक खेल सफल or असफल according to a औपचारिक  system of rules and guidelines .
वहीँ हैं अनेक  forms of RPG .
The original form , sometimes called the tabletop RPG , is  conducted through चर्चा , whereas in सजीव कार्रवाई role-playing खेल ( larp ) खिलाड़ी physically  perform their characters ' actions .
In both of these forms , an arranger called a game master ( GM ) usually decides on the rules and setting  to be प्रयुक्त और अधिनियमों as रेफरी , जबकि प्रत्येक of the अन्य खिलाड़ी plays the भूमिका of a सिंगल अक्षर  .
Several varieties of RPG also  मौजूद in इलेक्ट्रॉनिक मीडिया , ऐसे as multi-player text-based muds और उनके graphics-based successors , massively  multiplayer online role-playing games ( MMORPGs ) .
Role-playing games also include single-player offline role-playing video games in which players control a  अक्षर or टोली जो undertake quests , और may शामिल सामर्थ्य कि अग्रिम using सांख्यिकीय  mechanics .
These games often share settings and rules  साथ tabletop rpgs , लकिन emphasize अक्षर उन्नति  more than collaborative storytelling .
Despite this variety of forms , some game forms such as trading card games and  wargames कि हैं सम्बन्धित to role-playing  games may not be included .
Role-playing activity  may sometimes be उपस्थित in ऐसे खेल , लकिन  it is not the primary focus .
The term is also sometimes used to describe roleplay simulation  खेल और exercises प्रयुक्त in शिक्षण , प्रशिक्षण , और अकादमिक  research .
The American Civil War ( ACW ) , also known as the War between the States or simply the Civil War ( see naming )  , थी a सिविल युद्ध लड़ा इससे 1861 to 1865 between the संयुक्त राज्य ( the `` संघ '' or the `` उत्तर '' ) और अनेक दक्षिणी स्लेव राज्य कि घोषित उनके secession  and formed the Confederate States of America ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ) .
the युद्ध था इसके उत्पत्ति in the समस्या of गुलामी , विशेषकर  the extension of slavery into the western territories .
Foreign  शक्तियां किया नहीं intervene  .
After four years of bloody combat that left over 600,000 soldiers dead and destroyed much of the South 's  अवसंरचना , the confederacy collapsed , गुलामी थी abolished , और the मुश्किल पुनर्निर्माण प्रक्रम of restoring नेशनल एकता और guaranteeing अधिकारों to the freed स्लेव began .
In the 1860 presidential election , Republicans , led by  अब्राहम lincoln , opposed expanding गुलामी into संयुक्त राज्य  ' territories .
Lincoln won , but before his  उद्घाटन on कूच 4 , 1861 ,  seven cotton-based slave states formed the Confederacy .
Outgoing Democratic President  जेम्स बुकानन और the आवक republicans अस्वीकृत  secession as illegal .
lincoln 's inaugural पता घोषित  his administration would not initiate civil war .
Eight remaining slave  राज्य जारी to अस्वीकृत काल्स लिये  secession .
Confederate  शक्तियां जब्त numerous संघीय दुर्गों भीतर  territory claimed by the Confederacy .
A Peace Conference  विफल to ढूँढें a सुलह , और दोनो पहलू prepared  for war .
The  confederates assumed कि यूरोपीय देशों यहूद so निर्भर on `` किंग कपास `` कि  they would intervene ; none did and none recognized the new Confederate States of America .
hostilities began on अप्रैल 12 , 1861 , जब confederate शक्तियां  fired upon Fort Sumter , a key fort held by Union troops in South Carolina .
Lincoln called for  प्रत्येक राज्य to provide सैनिकों to retake the फोर्ट ; नतीजतन  , four more slave states joined the Confederacy , bringing their total to eleven .
The Union soon  नियंत्रित the किनारा राज्य और स्थापित a नवल नाकेबंदी कि  crippled the southern economy .
The  पूर्वी थिएटर थी  inconclusive in 1861–62 .
The autumn 1862 Confederate campaign into Maryland ( a Union state ) ended with  confederate रिट्रीट at the बैटल of antietam , dissuading अंग्रेजों हस्तक्षेप  .
lincoln जारी the emancipation उदघोषणा  , which made ending slavery a war goal .
To the west , by summer 1862 the Union destroyed the Confederate river navy , then much of their western armies , and the  संघ at vicksburg विभाजित the confederacy in दो at the मिसिसिपी नदी  .
In 1863 , Robert  E. ली 's confederate incursion उत्तर ended at the  Battle of Gettysburg .
पश्चिमी सफलताओं led to ulysses S.  Grant command of all Union armies in 1864 .
In the  पश्चिमी थिएटर , विलियम T. शरमन drove ईस्ट to कैप्चर अटलांटा और marched  to the sea , destroying Confederate infrastructure along the way .
The Union marshaled the resources and manpower to attack the Confederacy from all directions , and could  afford to लड़ो लड़ाइयों of अपघर्षण through the overland अभियान towards रिचमंड ,  the Confederate capital .
The defending Confederate army failed , leading to Lee 's  आत्मसमर्पण to ग्रान्ट at appomattox अदालत हाउस on अप्रैल 9 , 1865 .
The American Civil War was one of the earliest  सच्चा औद्योगिक  wars .
railroads , the टेलीग्राफ , steamships , और mass-produced  weapons were employed extensively .
The mobilization of  civilian कारखानों , खानों , shipyards , बैंको , परिवहन  and food supplies all foreshadowed World War I .
It remains the deadliest war in American  इतिहास , resulting in the मौतों of an अनुमानित 750,000 सैनिको  and an undetermined number of civilian casualties .
Historian John Huddleston estimates the death toll at ten percent of all Northern males 20–45 years  बूढ़ा , और 30 प्रतिशत of सब दक्षिणी श्वेत males aged  18–40 .
The definition of the  संसार 's व्यस्ततम विमानक्षेत्र रै महरूम निर्दिष्ट by the एयरपोर्ट  Council International in Geneva , Switzerland .
The ACI defines and measures  the following तीन प्रकार of विमानक्षेत्र  traffic:
Passenger traffic : total  यात्री emplaned और deplaned , यात्री  in transit counted once
Cargo  ट्रैफ़िक : loaded और मोड  freight and mail in metric tonnes
Traffic movements :  अवतरण और take-offs of  aircraft
World War I ( WWI ) was a global war centred in Europe  कि began on 28 जुलाई 1914 और lasted जबतक 11  November 1918 .
It was predominantly called the World War or the Great War from its occurrence until the  प्रारंभ of संसार युद्ध ii in 1939 , और the पहला संसार युद्ध or संसार  War I thereafter .
It involved all the world 's great powers , which were assembled in two opposing alliances : the Allies ( based on the Triple Entente of the United Kingdom , France and Russia ) and the  सेंट्रल शक्तियां ( originally the ट्रिपल गठबंधन of जर्मनी , austria-hungary और इटली ; लकिन , as austria–hungary था लिया the अप्रिय विरूद्ध  the agreement , Italy did not enter into the war ) .
These alliances were both reorganised and expanded as more nations  डाला the युद्ध : इटली , जापानी और the संयुक्त राज्य joined the allies , और the उस्मानी  Empire and Bulgaria the Central Powers .
Ultimately , more than 70 million military personnel , including 60  लाख europeans , यहूद mobilised in एक of the largest युद्धों in  history .
More than 9 million combatants were  मारे , largely क्युकी of technological advancements कि led to विशाल increases in  the lethality of weapons without corresponding improvements in protection or mobility .
It was the fifth- deadliest conflict in world history ,  subsequently paving the रास्ता लिये विभिन्न राजनैतिक परिवर्तन , ऐसे as revolutions in अनेक of the  nations involved .
One of the  long-term कल्याणकारी of the युद्ध थी the पुनरुत्थान of साम्राज्यवाद in the  foreign policies of the great powers of Europe .
More immediately , the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of  ऑस्ट्रिया , the वारिस to the सिंहासन of austria-hungary , on 28 जून 1914 by यूगोस्लाव राष्ट्रवादी gavrilo princip in साराजेवो triggered a राजनयिक संकट  when Austria-Hungary subsequently delivered an ultimatum to the Kingdom of Serbia .
Several  alliances formed over the पिछला  decades were invoked .
Within weeks , the major powers were  at युद्ध और , via उनके colonies , the  conflict soon spread around the world .
On 28 July , the Austro-Hungarians fired the first shots of  the युद्ध as तैयारी लिये the आक्रमण of  Serbia .
While the Russians mobilised , the Germans invaded neutral Belgium and  ध्वज on the रास्ता to फ़्रांस , providing a casus belli लिये ब्रिटेन 's घोषणा of  war against Germany .
After the German march on Paris was brought to a halt—the so-called Miracle of the Marne —the Western Front settled  into a स्थिर बैटल of अपघर्षण साथ a गर्त लकीर कि बदला  little until 1917 .
On the Eastern Front , the Russian  फौज थी कामयाब विरूद्ध the austro-hungarians , लकिन थी रोका in  its invasion of East Prussia by the Germans .
In November  the उस्मानी साम्राज्य joined the युद्ध , खोलने  up fronts in the Caucasus , Mesopotamia and the Sinai .
इटली और बुल्गारिया गई to युद्ध in  1915 and Romania in 1916 .
In Russia ,  the त्सार 's सरकारी collapsed in कूच 1917 और a subsequent क्रान्ति in नवम्बर brought  the Russians to terms with the Central Powers .
After a 1918 German offensive  साथ the पश्चिमी सामने , the allies drove वापस the germans in a श्रेणी of कामयाब offensives और  American forces began entering the trenches .
Germany , which had its own trouble with  क्रांतिकारियों , सहमत to an armistice on 11 नवम्बर  1918 .
the युद्ध ended in विजय लिये  the Allies .
Events on the home fronts were as tumultuous as on the battle fronts , as the participants  आजमाया to mobilize उनके जनशक्ति और आर्थिक संसाधन to लड़ो a  total war .
By the end of the war , four  प्रमुख इम्पीरियल powers—the जर्मनी , रूसी , austro-hungarian  and Ottoman empires—ceased to exist .
The successor states of the former two lost a great  राशि of territory , जबकि the latter दो यहूद dismantled  entirely .
The map of central Europe  थी redrawn into अनेक छोटी राज्य  .
The League of Nations  थी formed in the आशा of preventing another  such conflict .
The European  राष्ट्रवाद शाखित by the युद्ध और the ब्रेकअप  of empires , the repercussions of Germany 's defeat and problems with the Treaty of Versailles are agreed to be factors contributing to World War II .
The Deepwater Horizon oil spill ( also  referred to as the bp आयल spill , the bp आयल विपत्ति , the गल्फ of मैक्सिको आयल spill , और the macondo blowout ) थी an आयल spill in the गल्फ of मैक्सिको on  the BP -operated Macondo Prospect , considered the largest accidental marine oil spill in the history of the petroleum industry , estimated to be between 8 % and 31 % larger in volume than the earlier Ixtoc I oil spill .
Following the explosion and sinking of the Deepwater Horizon  आयल रिग , जिससे claimed 11 जीवनदान , a sea-floor  oil gusher flowed unabated for 87 days , until it was capped on 15 July 2010 .
The  कुल निर्वहन is अनुमानित  at .
A massive response ensued to protect beaches , wetlands and estuaries from the spreading  आयल utilizing skimmer जहाजों , फ्लोटिंग booms , नियंत्रित burns और of  Corexit oil dispersant .
After several failed efforts to contain the flow , the  खूब थी घोषित sealed on 19 सितंबर 2010  .
Some reports indicate  the खूब साईट continues  to leak .
Due to the months-long  spill , साथ साथ प्रतिकूल प्रभाव इससे the जवाब और क्लीनअप क्रियाएँ , extensive क्षति to समुद्री और वन्यजीव habitats , फ़िशिंग और पर्यटन उद्योग , और इंसान स्वास्थ्य समस्याएं  have continued through 2013.Three years after the spill , tar balls could still be found on the Mississippi coast .
Numerous  investigations छान the कल्याणकारी of the विस्फोट और  record-setting spill .
Notably , the U.S. government 's September 2011 report pointed to  defective सीमेंट on the खूब , faulting ज़्यादातर bp , लकिन भी खूब ऑपरेटर transocean और ठेकेदार  Halliburton .
Earlier in 2011 , a White House commission  likewise blamed bp और इसके साझेदार लिये a श्रेणी of cost-cutting निर्णय और an अपर्याप्त सुरक्षा प्रणाली , लकिन भी concluded कि the spill resulted  from `` systemic '' root causes and `` absent significant reform in both industry practices and government policies , might well recur '' .
In November 2012 ,  bp और the संयुक्त राज्य विभाग of इंसाफ settled संघीय दण्ड आरोप साथ bp pleading अपराधी to  11 counts of manslaughter , two misdemeanors , and a felony count of lying to Congress .
bp भी सहमत to चार सालो of सरकारी निगरानी of इसके सुरक्षा practices और आचार , और the पर्यावरणीय सुरक्षा एजेंसी  announced that BP would be temporarily banned from new contracts with the US government .
BP and the Department of Justice agreed to a record-setting $  4.525 अरब in जुर्माना और अन्य भुगतान लकिन further विधिक कार्यवाही नहीं अपेक्षित to conclude जबतक 2014 हैं जारी to determine  payouts and fines under the Clean Water Act and the Natural Resources Damage Assessment .
as of फ़रवरी 2013 , दण्ड और सिविल settlements और  payments to a trust fund had cost the company $ 42.2 billion .
``  जहाँ the गलियों have no नाम  '' is a song by rock band U2 .
it is the खोलने track इससे उनके 1987 एल्बम  The Joshua Tree and was released as the album 's third single in August 1987 .
The song 's hook is a repeating guitar arpeggio using a delay effect , played  दौरान the सोंग 's परिचय और again at the  end .
Lead vocalist Bono wrote the lyrics in response to  the ख़्याल कि it is संभावित to पहचानो a व्यक्ति 's धर्म और आय आधारित on the गली on जिससे वे  lived , particularly in Belfast .
During the band 's difficulties recording the song ,  निर्माता ब्रायन eno माना erasing the सोंग 's टेपों to have उन्हें प्रारंभ इससे खरोंच  .
`` Where the Streets Have No Name '' was praised by critics and  became a वाणिज्यिक कामयाबी , peaking at क्रमांक तेरह in the  US , number fourteen in Canada , number ten in the Netherlands , and number four in the United Kingdom .
The song has become one of the band 's most popular  गीतों और रै remained a स्टेपल of उनके सजीव अधिनियम चूंकि the सोंग debuted  in 1987 on The Joshua Tree Tour .
The song was notably performed on a Los Angeles rooftop for the  फिल्मांकन of इसके म्यूज़िक वीडियो , जिससे जीती a ग्रैमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन प्रदर्शन म्यूज़िक वीडियो .recently the सोंग रै महरूम प्रयुक्त by  the NFL 's Baltimore Ravens as their entrance song in Super Bowl XLVII
Thomas Jeffrey `` Tom '' Hanks ( born  जुलाई 9 , 1956 ) is an अमरीकी कर्ता , निर्माता , लेखक , और निदेशक  .
Hanks is  ज्ञात लिये उसके भूमिकाएँ in अपोलो  13 , Big , That Thing You Do !
, The Green Mile , You  've मिला मेल , sleepless in सिएटल , चार्ली विल्सन 's युद्ध , कैच me if तुम can , फॉरेस्ट गंप , डाल दूर , a लीग of  Their Own , The Da Vinci Code , Angels & Demons , as well as animated films like the Toy Story film series , The Polar Express , and The Simpsons Movie .
He has earned and been nominated for numerous awards during his career ,  सहित जीतना a सुनहरी ग्लोब लिये बेहतरीन कर्ता और an अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन कर्ता लिये उसके भूमिका in फिलाडेल्फिया और a सुनहरी ग्लोब , an अकादमी पुरस्कार , a स्क्रीन अभिनेताओं गिल्ड पुरस्कार  , and a People 's Choice Award for Best Actor for his role in Forrest Gump , and earning the Stanley Kubrick Britannia Award for Excellence in Film from the BAFTAs in 2004 .
Hanks is also known for his  सहयोग साथ फिल्मी निदेशक स्टीवन स्पिलबर्ग  on Saving Private Ryan and the mini-series Band of Brothers , which launched Hanks also as a successful director , producer and writer .
As of 2012 , Hanks ' films have grossed over $ 4.2  अरब at the संयुक्त राज्य बक्सा दफ्तर अलोन , और over $ 8.5 अरब विश्वव्यापी बनाना  him the highest all-time box office star .
The Cape is an  अमरीकी सुपरहीरो नाटक श्रेणी  .
It premiered on NBC during the 2010–2011 television season as a mid-season replacement  शुरूआत साथ a two-hour पायलट एपीसोड on संडे , जनवरी 9 ,  2011 at 9 pm Eastern and Pacific Time .
An encore played on Monday , January 10 , with follow-up episodes continuing on Monday  evenings in the 9 pm timeslot शुरूआत on जनवरी  17 .
NBC subsequently  काटें the कुल क्रमांक of एपीसोड to be aired इससे  13 to 10 as a result of low ratings .
On March 2 ,  2011 , एनबीसी घोषित कि the श्रेणी finale  would only be aired on the network 's website .
हैली 's धूमकेतु or धूमकेतु हैली ( or ) , officially designated 1p/halley  , is the best-known of the short-period comets and is visible from Earth every 75–76 years .
हैली is the तभी short-period धूमकेतु कि is clearly दृश्य to the  naked eye from Earth , and thus the only naked-eye comet that might appear twice in a human lifetime .
Other naked-eye comets may be brighter  और अधिक spectacular , लकिन होगा appear तभी एकबार  in thousands of years .
Halley 's returns to the inner Solar System  have महरूम observed और अंकित by खगोलशास्त्रियों चूंकि  at least 240 BCE .
Clear records of the comet 's appearances were made by Chinese , Babylonian  , और मध्यकालीन यूरोपीय chroniclers , लकिन यहूद नहीं पहचाना as reappearances of the वही ऑब्जेक्ट at the  time .
The comet 's periodicity was first determined in 1705  by अंग्रेज़ी astronomer edmond हैली , बाद  whom it is now named .
Halley 's Comet last  appeared in the भीतरी सौर प्रणाली in 1986 और होगा  next appear in mid-2061 .
During  इसके 1986 apparition , हैली became the पहला धूमकेतु to be observed in विवरण by spacecraft  , providing the first observational data on the structure of a comet nucleus and the mechanism of coma and tail formation .
These observations supported a number of longstanding hypotheses about comet construction , particularly Fred Whipple 's ``  गंदा स्नोबॉल '' मॉडल , जिससे correctly  predicted that Halley would be composed of a mixture of volatile ices – such as water , carbon dioxide and ammonia – and dust .
The missions also provided data which substantially reformed and reconfigured these ideas ; for instance it is now understood that Halley 's surface is  largely रचित of dusty , non-volatile सामग्री , और कि तभी a छोटी portion of it  is icy .
The following is a list of the  सबसे populous incorporated स्थान of the संयुक्त राज्य  of America .
As defined by the United States Census  ब्यूरो , an `` incorporated प्लेस `` शामिल a किस्में of designations , सहित  city , town , village , borough , and municipality .
A few exceptional Census  designated स्थान ( cdps ) हैं भी शामिल in the जनसांख्यिकी  Bureau 's listing of incorporated places .
Consolidated  city-counties represent a पृथक प्रकार of सरकारी  that includes the entire population of a county , or county equivalent .
Some  संचित city-counties , however  , include multiple incorporated places .
This list presents only that portion ( or `` balance '' ) of such consolidated city-counties that are not a  भाग of another incorporated प्लेस  .
Note that this list refers only to the population of individual  municipalities भीतर उनके पारिभाषित हद , जिससे करता नहीं शामिल अन्य municipalities or unincorporated suburban क्षेत्रों भीतर शहरी  agglomerations .
A different ranking is evident when considering  u.S. महानगर क्षेत्रफल  populations .
The Mayflower was the ship that in 1620  transported 102 अंग्रेज़ी तीर्थयात्रियों , सहित a कोर समूह of separatists  , to New England .
Their story is one of  travail और अस्तित्व in a हर्ष नई संसार  environment .
A New Zealand forward ( in white )  takes a शॉट on लक्ष्य विरूद्ध कैमरून in the  2011 FIFA U-20 World Cup .
Forwards , also known as strikers , are the players  on a टोली in संघ फ़ुटबॉल जो खेल निकटतम to the opposing टोली 's लक्ष्य , और  are therefore principally responsible for scoring goals .
This very advanced position and its limited defensive responsibilities  औसत आगे सामान्यतः स्कोर अधिक लक्ष्य than  other players .
This position requires intelligence ,  गति , और शक्ति , दोनो of निष्पादन और of विचार , to perform  the role well .
Modern team formations usually include  एक to तीन आगे ; दो is the सबसे आम  .
Coaches typically field one striker who plays in an  उन्नत स्थिति ( the केन्द्र आगे ) , और another attacking  forward who plays somewhat deeper and assists in making goals as well as scoring ( the second striker ) .
it चाहिए be विख्यात कि अंदर आगे develop इससे attacking midfield स्थितियाँ और  hence are naturally midfielders .
Barcelona FC star Lionel Messi is a typical  attacking मिडफील्डर देखी as a आगे due to उसके शॉट सटीकता  .
A California domestic partnership is a legal relationship available to same-sex couples , and to certain  opposite-sex युगल in जिससे at तनिक एक पार्टी is at तनिक 18 सालो  of age .
It affords the couple `` the same rights , protections , and benefits , and ... the same  जिम्मेदारियों , दायित्वों , और कर्तव्य अंतर्गत विधि ... '' as शादीशुदा spouses  .
Enacted in 1999 , the domestic partnership registry was the first of its  दयालु in the संयुक्त राज्य निर्मित by a विधानमंडल  without court intervention .
Initially ,  घरेलू partnerships enjoyed बहुत few privileges—principally बस hospital-visitation अधिकारों और the सही  to be claimed as a next of kin of the estate of a deceased partner .
The legislature  रै चूंकि विस्तारित the पैमाना of कैलिफ़ोर्निया घरेलू partnerships to  include all of the rights and responsibilities common to marriage .
As such , California domestic  partnerships हैं functionally समतुल्य to सिविल संघ  offered in several other states .
Although the program enjoys broad support in  कैलिफ़ोर्निया , it रै महरूम the सोर्स of कुछ विवाद  .
Groups opposed to the recognition of same-sex  परिवारों have challenged the विस्तार of घरेलू partnerships  in court .
Conversely , advocates of same-sex marriage contend that anything less than full marriage rights extended  to same-sex साझेदार is analogous to the `` पृथक लकिन बराबर '' जातिगत  laws of the Jim Crow era .
Mark A. Jackson ( born April 1 , 1965 ) is an American basketball coach , and  पूर्व खिलाड़ी जो is the वर्तमान सिर कोच of the सुनहरी राज्य योद्धाओं of the एनबीए  .
A point guard from St. John 's University , he played for the New York Knicks , Indiana Pacers , Los Angeles Clippers , Denver  टेंडर्स , टोरंटो रैपटर्स , यूटा जैज़ और ह्यूस्टन rockets in the एनबीए in a करियर spanning इससे 1987  to 2004 .
Jackson has  भी worked as a कमेंटेटर लिये ईएसपीएन और एबीसी  alongside his former coach Jeff Van Gundy and play-by-play man Mike Breen .
He was previously an  एनबीए विश्लेषक लिये the यस संजाल 's नई  Jersey Nets games .
South Africa has eleven official languages : Afrikaans , English  , ndebele , उत्तरी sotho , sotho , swazi , tswana , सोंगा , venda , ख़ोसा  and Zulu .
Fewer than two percent of South Africans  बोलो a पहला भाषा अन्य than an आधिकारिक  one .
Most South Africans  can बोलो अधिक than एक  language .
Dutch and English were the first official  भाषाएं of दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी इससे 1910 to  1925 .
अफ्रीकी थी added as a  part of Dutch in 1925 .
Dutch was replaced by Afrikaans when South Africa became a republic in 1961 , and Dutch was dropped in 1983 , so  between 1983 और 1994 , दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी था दो आधिकारिक भाषाएं : अंग्रेज़ी  and Afrikaans .
The English version of the South African constitution refers to the languages by the names in those  भाषाएं : isizulu , isixhosa , अफ्रीकी , sepedi ( referring to उत्तरी sotho ) , setswana , अंग्रेज़ी  , Sesotho ( referring to Southern Sotho ) , Xitsonga , Siswati , Tshivenda and isiNdebele ( referring to Southern Ndebele ) .
In South Africa , Southern Ndebele is known  बस as ndebele , as सबसे अध्यक्षों of उत्तरी ndebele सजीव in  Zimbabwe .
The 1993 version of  the संविधान referred to उत्तरी sotho as sesotho sa leboa  , but the 1996 version referred to the language as Sepedi .
Different government departments  और आधिकारिक लाशें  use different terms to denote Northern Sotho .
The main language of  सरकारी is अंग्रेज़ी भी if दक्षिण africans  often take pride in using indigenous languages for any purpose .
Afrikaans also features prominently in commerce together with English  as the भाषाएं साथ the उच्चतम क्रमांक of धाराप्रवाह अध्यक्षों हैं अफ्रीकी और अंग्रेज़ी  .
In terms of linguistic classification , the official languages include two  west-germanic भाषाएं ( अंग्रेज़ी और अफ्रीकी ) और नौ bantu  languages .
Four of these are Nguni languages ( Zulu , Xhosa , Swati and Ndebele ) and  तीन हैं sotho–tswana भाषाएं ( उत्तरी sotho , दक्षिणी sotho  and Tswana ) .
सोंगा is a tswa–ronga  language .
South African Sign Language  is a पृथक हालांकि incompletely उभरा नेशनल मानक भाषा  which also subsumes a cluster of semi-standardised dialects .
Aluminium nitrate is a salt of  एल्युमिनियम और नाइट्रिक एसिड , मौजूदा सामान्यतः as a crystalline हाइड्रेट , सबसे commonly  as aluminium nitrate nonahydrate , Al ( NO3 ) 3·9H2O .
The New York Jets are a professional football team headquartered in  florham पार्क , नई जर्सी , representing the नई यॉर्क महानगर  area .
The team is a member of the Eastern Division  of the अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल सम्मेलन ( afc ) in the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल  League ( NFL ) .
In a unique arrangement for  the लीग , the jets share metlife स्टेडियम in ईस्ट रदरफोर्ड , नई जर्सी साथ the नई  York Giants .
The  मताधिकार is legally और corporately  registered as New York Jets , LLC .
The  टोली थी संस्थापित in 1959 as the टाइटन्स of नई यॉर्क , an असली  member of the American Football League ; later , the franchise joined the NFL in the AFL–NFL merger .
The team  began to खेल in 1960 at the  Polo Grounds .
Under  नई स्वामित्व , the वर्तमान नाम थी अपनाया in 1963 और the मताधिकार  was relocated to Shea Stadium in 1964 and then to the Meadowlands Sports Complex in 1984 .
The Jets advanced to the playoffs for the  पहला समय in 1968 और गई on to compete in सुपर कटोरी iii जहाँ वे पराजित the बाल्टीमोर कोल्टस , बनने  the first AFL team to defeat an NFL club in an AFL-NFL World Championship Game .
Since 1968 , the Jets have appeared in  the playoffs तेरह टाइम्स , और in the afc चैंपियनशिप खेल चार टाइम्स , सबसे recently  losing to the Pittsburgh Steelers in 2010 .
However , the Jets have never returned to the Super Bowl , making them one of three NFL  टीमों to जीत उनके लोन सुपर कटोरी रूप , साथ साथ the नई ऑरलियन्स संतो  and Tampa Bay Buccaneers .
the टोली 's प्रशिक्षण सुविधा , अटलांटिक स्वास्थ्य jets प्रशिक्षण  Center , which opened in 2008 , is located in Florham Park .
The team currently holds  उनके सालाना प्रशिक्षण शिविर सत्र on the कैम्पस of the राज्य  University of New York at Cortland in Cortland , New York while holding occasional sessions at the Florham Park complex .
psilocybe semilanceata
Psilocybin mushrooms , also known as psychedelic  मशरूम , हैं fungi कि contain psychoactive indole  alkaloids .
There are multiple colloquial terms for psilocybin mushrooms , the  सबसे आम होने shrooms और जादू  mushrooms .
Biological genera containing psilocybin mushrooms include Agrocybe , Conocybe , Copelandia , Galerina ,  gerronema , gymnopilus , hypholoma , inocybe , mycena , panaeolus  , Pluteus , and Psilocybe .
There are  लगभग 190 प्रजाति of psilocybin मशरूम  and most of them fall in the genus Psilocybe .
Psilocybin mushrooms  have संभावित महरूम प्रयुक्त चूंकि प्रागैतिहासिक टाइम्स और may  have been depicted in rock art .
Many  संस्कृतियों have प्रयुक्त ये  mushrooms in religious rites .
In modern Western society  वे हैं प्रयुक्त recreationally लिये उनके  psychedelic effects .
Recent studies done at Imperial College London and Johns Hopkins School  of आयुर्विज्ञान conclude कि जब प्रयुक्त properly , psilocybin अधिनियमों  as an anti-depressant as suggested by fMRI brain scans .
Alaska ( ) is a state in the United States ,  situated in the उत्तरपश्चिम extremity of the उत्तर अमरीकी महाद्वीप , साथ the अंतरराष्ट्रीय boundary साथ कनाडा  to the east , the Arctic Ocean to the north , and the Pacific Ocean to the west and south , with Russia further west across the Bering Strait .
Alaska is the largest state in the United  राज्य by क्षेत्रफल , the 4th तनिक populous और the तनिक densely आबादी of  the 50 United States .
लगभग हाफ of अलास्का 's 731,449 निवासियों  live within the Anchorage metropolitan area .
अलास्का 's अर्थव्यवस्था is वर्चस्व by the आयल , प्राकृतिक गैस , और फ़िशिंग  industries ; it has these resources in abundance .
Alaska was purchased from Russia  on कूच 30 , 1867 , लिये $ 7.2 लाख ( $ समायोजित लिये  inflation ) at approximately two cents per acre ( $ 4.74/km2 ) .
The land went through several administrative changes  पहले बनने an व्यवस्थित ( or incorporated ) territory on may  11 , 1912 , and the 49th state of the U.S. on January 3 , 1959 .
The name `` Alaska '' ( Аляска ) was already introduced in the Russian colonial period , when it  थी प्रयुक्त तभी लिये the प्रायद्वीप और is निकला इससे the aleut alaxsxaq , अर्थ  `` the mainland '' or , more literally , `` the object towards which the action of the sea is directed '' .
It is also  ज्ञात as alyeska , the `` ग्रेट जमीन ''  , an Aleut word derived from the same root .
The 101 French  विभाग हैं विभाजित into 342 arrondissements , जिससे may be  translated into English as districts .
The capital of  an arrondissement/district is  called a subprefecture .
When an arrondissement contains the prefecture ( capital ) of the department , that  प्रीफ़ेक्चर is the पूंजी of the arrondissement , एक्टिंग दोनो as a प्रीफ़ेक्चर और as  a subprefecture .
Arrondissements are further  विभाजित into cantons और communes  .
The vagina ( from Latin vāgīna , literally ``  म्यान '' or `` म्यान `` ) is a tubular ट्रैक्ट जिससे is a sex अंग और  has two main functions ; sexual intercourse and childbirth .
In humans , this passage leads  इससे the खोलने of the भग to the गर्भाशय ( गर्भ )  , but the vaginal tract ends at the cervix .
Unlike men , who have  तभी एक genital orifice , महिलाओं have दो , the  urethra and the vagina .
The vaginal opening is much  larger than the urethral खोलने , और दोनो  openings are protected by the labia .
The inner mould of the  योनि रै a foldy बनावट  which can create friction for the penis during intercourse .
During  arousal , the योनि gets नम to सुकर  the entrance of the penis .
The Latinate plural ``  vaginae '' is rarely प्रयुक्त in  English .
Colloquially , the word vagina is often  प्रयुक्त to refer to the भग or to  the female genitals in general .
However , by its  शब्दकोष और anatomical परिभाषाएं , योनि refers  exclusively to the specific internal structure .
The  सिनसिनाटी लाल हैं a प्रमुख लीग बेसबॉल  team based in Cincinnati , Ohio .
They are members of the  नेशनल लीग सेंट्रल प्रभाग  .
Established in 1881  as an स्वतंत्र क्लबों , the टोली became a चार्टर सदस्य  of the American Association in 1882 , and joined the National League in 1890 .
The club traditionally traces its  उत्पत्ति to बेसबॉल 's पहला खुलकर पेशेवर  team in 1869 .
The  लाल have जीती पाँच संसार श्रेणी शीर्षक , एक अमरीकी  Association pennant , nine National League pennants and ten division titles .
The Reds played in  the नेशनल लीग वेस्ट between 1969 और 1993  and have been in the National League Central since 1994 .
चूंकि 2003 , the लाल have निभाई at ग्रेट अमरीकी  Ball Park , built next to their home from 1970 to 2002 , Riverfront Stadium .
Bob  castellini रै स्वामित्व the सिनसिनाटी  Reds since 2006 .
A  शरारत बदबू  bomb .
A stink bomb is a device  designed to बनाएँ an अप्रिय महकते  .
वे दायरा in प्रभावकारिता इससे सरल  pranks to military grade malodorants or riot control chemical agents .
The Guinness Book of Records  सूचियाँ दो smelliest substances .
One is `` US Government Standard Bathroom Malodor '' ; a mixture of eight chemicals with a stench  resembling इंसान मल , तभी much stronger , designed  to test the efficacy of deodorizers and air fresheners .
Another one , `` Who me ? `` , is a mixture of five  sulfur-containing रसायन और खुश्बू जैसे rotting खाना और carcasses  .
The  कहावत `` a चित्र is लायक a हजार शब्द '' refers to the ख़्याल  that a complex idea can be conveyed with just a single still image .
It  भी aptly characterizes एक of the प्रमुख लक्ष्य of कल्पना  , namely making it possible to absorb large amounts of data quickly .
the अभिव्यक्ति `` उपयोग  a picture .
It 's worth a thousand words . '' appears in a 1911  समाचारपत्र आलेख quoting समाचारपत्र एडिटर आर्थर ब्रिसबेन discussing पत्रकारिता और publicity  .
1913  समाचारपत्र विज्ञापन
A similar phrase , `` One Look Is Worth A Thousand Words '' , appears in a 1913  समाचारपत्र विज्ञापन लिये the piqua स्वचालित सप्लाई हाउस of piqua ,  Ohio .
An early use of  the सटीक phrase appears in an 1918 समाचारपत्र विज्ञापन लिये the सैन अंतोनियो लाइट जिससे says : एक of the स्वदेश 's महानतम सम्पादक says : एक चित्र is  Worth a Thousand Words The San Antonio Light 's Pictorial Magazine of the War Exemplifies the truth of the above statement -- judging from the warm reception it has received at the hands of the Sunday Light readers .
It is believed by some that the modern use of the phrase stems from an article by Fred R. Barnard in  the विज्ञापन व्यापार जर्नल मुद्रक ' स्याही , promoting the  use of images in advertisements that appeared on the sides of streetcars .
The December 8 , 1921 issue carries an ad entitled , `` One Look  is लायक a हजार शब्द . ''
Another ad by Barnard appears in the March 10 , 1927 issue with the phrase `` One Picture  लायक टेन हजार शब्द , '' जहाँ it is labeled a चाइनीज कहावत ( 一圖勝萬言  ) .
The Home Book of Proverbs , Maxims , and  परिचित वाक्यांश उद्धरण बर्नार्ड as saying he पुकारा it `` a चाइनीज कहावत  , so that people would take it seriously . ''
Soon after , the proverb would become  popularly attributed to कन्फ्यूशियस .
The discussion of `` One Picture Worth Thousand Words '' versus `` One Picture  लायक टेन हजार शब्द '' wan येन i hua और 10.000 मील लायक 10.000 किताबे is cited in सूचना  graphics where the concept of many in different disciplines and cultures .
A picture is  लायक a हजार  words
despite इस आधुनिक उत्पत्ति of the  popular phrase , the sentiment has been expressed by earlier writers .
For example the Russian writer Ivan Turgenev wrote ( in  fathers और बेटे in 1862 ) , `` a चित्र shows me at a  glance what it takes dozens of pages of a book to expound . ''
Computer programmer and author Fred Brooks makes an opposite  बयान regarding प्रोग्रामिंग in the mythical man-month : `` दिखाएँ me अपना flowcharts  and conceal your tables , and I shall continue to be mystified .
Show me your tables , and I won’t usually need  अपना flowcharts ; they’ll be स्पष्ट  . ''
the phrase रै भी महरूम spoofed by जॉन मैकार्थी , the प्रसिद्ध कंप्यूटर वैज्ञानिक , to मेक  the opposite point : `` As the Chinese say , 1001 words is worth more than a picture . ''
A season is a subdivision  of the साल , चिह्नित by परिवर्तन in मौसम , पारिस्थितिकी , और  hours of daylight .
Seasons result from the yearly revolution of the Earth around the Sun and the tilt of the Earth  's अक्ष सापेक्ष to the प्लेन of क्रान्ति  .
In temperate  और ध्रुवीय regions , the सीज़न हैं चिह्नित by परिवर्तन in the तीव्रता of धूप कि पहुँच the धरती  's surface , variations of which may cause animals to go into hibernation or to migrate , and plants to be dormant .
During May , June and  जुलाई , the उत्तरी गोलार्ध is उजागर to अधिक सीधा धूप क्युकी  the hemisphere faces the sun .
The same is true of the  दक्षिणी गोलार्ध in नवम्बर , दिसम्बर और  January .
It is the tilt of the Earth that causes the Sun to be higher in the sky during  the गर्मियाँ महीने जिससे increases the सौर फ्लक्स  .
However , due to seasonal lag , June , July and August are the hottest months in the northern  गोलार्ध और दिसम्बर , जनवरी और फ़रवरी हैं the hottest महीने in the  southern hemisphere .
In temperate and  subpolar regions , generally चार पंचांग -आधारd सीज़न  ( with their adjectives ) are recognized : spring ( vernal ) , summer ( estival ) , autumn ( autumnal ) and winter ( hibernal ) .
However , ecologists mostly use a six season model for temperate  जलवायु regions कि शामिल pre-spring ( prevernal ) और लेट गर्मियाँ ( serotinal  ) as distinct seasons along with the traditional four .
Hot regions have two or three seasons ; the rainy ( or wet , or monsoon ) season and the dry season , and  in कुछ तीव्र क्षेत्रों , a कूल or  mild season .
In some parts of the world , special `` seasons '' are loosely defined based on  महत्वपूर्ण कार्यक्रम ऐसे as a hurricane ऋतु , बवंडर ऋतु or a दावानल ऋतु  .
The six  ecological सीज़न
The four calendar seasons ,  चित्रित in an प्राचीन रोमन  mosaic from Tunisia
डच निर्यात  in 2006
At the time of  लिखने the नीदरलैंड्स is the 17th largest  economy of the world .
( see :  सूची of देशों  by GDP ( nominal ) )
GDP per  capita is roughly $ 42,000 जिससे puts it in the शीर्ष 10 of richest राष्ट्र in  the world ( see : List of countries by GDP ( PPP ) per capita ) .
Between 1996 and  2000 सालाना आर्थिक विकास (  GDP ) averaged over 4 % , well above the European average .
Growth slowed  considerably in 2001-05 as भाग of the  global economic slowdown .
2006 और 2007 however दिखाया  economic growth of 3.4 % and 3.9 % .
The Dutch economy was hit considerably by the ongoing  वैश्विक वित्तीय संकट और the ensuing यूरोपीय कर्ज़  crisis .
Several banks went bankrupt ,  और a क्रमांक of अन्य था to प्राप्त  governmental aid .
In 2009 the  अर्थव्यवस्था अस्वीकृत साथ 3.5 % , followed by दो सालो  of mild growth .
The Dutch economy is currently in a recession again , with an  आर्थिक मनाही of 0.5 % in 2012  .
Inflation is  at 3.2 % in फ़रवरी  2013 .
Unemployment has  महरूम अपेक्षाकृत कम compared to अन्य eu राष्ट्र लिये  decades but after mid-2012 it has seen a fast increase and in February 2013 it has hit 7.7 % .
The Netherlands managed to maintain its  aaa दरजा at तनिक जबतक कूच 2013 according to the तीन प्रमुख क्रेडिट  rating agencies .
Historically , the Dutch introduced and invented the  भण्डार मार्केट by the merchandise व्यापार through  Dutch West India Company .
The Netherlands is a founding member  of the यूरोपीय संघ , the oecd और the संसार  Trade Organization .
Loyal to the Game is the tenth studio  एल्बम और छठे स्टुडियो  album by Tupac Shakur .
It contains remixes of previously  unreleased म्यूज़िक अंकित by shakur पहले उसके मौत in 1996  .
Released in the United States on December 14 , 2004 ( December 12 in the  संयुक्त किंगडम ) , वफ़ादार to the खेल  was produced by Eminem .
The original panel of The View ; Meredith  vieira , स्टार जोन्स , डिब्बी matenopoulos  and Barbara Walters in 1997 .
The View is an American  बात दिखाएँ ब्रॉडकास्ट on एबीसी कि debuted in 1997  as part of the network 's daytime programming block .
Created by Barbara Walters and Bill  geddie , जो दोनो भी serve as the दिखाएँ 's कार्यपालिका निर्माता , the कार्यक्रम  features a panel of women as co-hosts .
Along with Walters , the current panel  शामिल whoopi गोल्डबर्ग , जो serves as the मॉडरेटर , आनन्द behar ,  Elisabeth Hasselbeck , and Sherri Shepherd .
International  संस्करण of the कार्यक्रम हैं aired  in several countries .
As of the 2012–13 season , its 16th , The View is the  fourth-longest कार्यशील नेशनल दिन बात दिखाएँ in इतिहास , पीछे  The Phil Donahue Show ( 29 ) , the variously-named Live !
programs ( 25 ) ,  और the ओपरा विनफ्रे दिखाएँ ( 25  ) .
Prunus virginiana , commonly called bitter-berry , chokecherry , Virginia bird cherry and western chokecherry ( also black  chokecherry लिये P. virginiana var . demissa ) , is a प्रजाति of बर्ड चेरी ( prunus subgenus padus ) देशी to उत्तर अमेरिका ; the प्राकृतिक ऐतिहासिक  range of P. virginiana includes most of the continent , except for the far north and far south .
Los Angeles  अंतरराष्ट्रीय विमानक्षेत्र is the प्राथमिक विमानक्षेत्र सेवारत the वृहद लॉस एंजिल्स क्षेत्रफल  , the second-most populated metropolitan area in the United States .
It is most often referred to by its  iata विमानक्षेत्र कोड lax , साथ the अक्षर  pronounced individually .
LAX is located in southwestern  लॉस एंजिल्स साथ the प्रशांत coast in the पड़ोस of westchester , इससे the शहर कोर और is the प्राथमिक  airport of Los Angeles World Airports ( LAWA ) , an agency of the Los Angeles city government formerly known as the Department of Airports .
In 2011 , LAX was the sixth busiest airport in the world after Hartsfield-Jackson  अटलांटा अंतरराष्ट्रीय विमानक्षेत्र , बीजिंग पूंजी अंतरराष्ट्रीय विमानक्षेत्र , लंदन हीथ्रो विमानक्षेत्र , शिकागो  O'Hare International Airport , and Tokyo Haneda International Airport with 61,862,052 passengers .
The airport  holds the अर्जी लिये `` the संसार 's व्यस्ततम उत्पत्ति और गंतव्य  ( O & D ) airport '' in 2011 that involves non-connecting passenger traffic .
It is also the only airport to rank among the top five  u.S. एयरपोर्ट लिये दोनो यात्री और कार्गो ट्रैफ़िक  .
LAX is the busiest airport in the Greater Los Angeles  क्षेत्रफल , लकिन अन्य एयरपोर्ट सहित bob आशा विमानक्षेत्र , जॉन वेन विमानक्षेत्र , long बीच विमानक्षेत्र ,  LA/Ontario International Airport , and Palm Springs International Airport also serve the region .
LAX is  भी the व्यस्ततम विमानक्षेत्र in कैलिफ़ोर्निया और the वेस्ट coast of the संयुक्त राज्य in शर्तें of उड़ान परिचालन ,  passenger traffic and air cargo activity , leading it to be referred to as the `` Gateway to the Pacific Rim `` .
Peyton Williams Manning ( born March 24 , 1976 ) is an American  फ़ुटबॉल क्वार्टरबैक लिये the डेनवर broncos of the नेशनल  Football League ( NFL ) .
He  निभाई लिये the इंडियानापोलिस  Colts for 14 seasons from 1998 to 2011 .
He is the son of  पूर्व एनएफएल क्वार्टरबैक  Archie Manning and an elder brother of New York Giants quarterback Eli Manning .
Manning played college football for the  विश्वविद्यालयों of टेनेसी , अग्रणी the स्वयंसेवक to the 1997 सेक चैंपियनशिप  in his senior season .
However , No . 3 Tennessee lost to the No . 2  नेब्रास्का cornhuskers 42-17 in the नारंगी कटोरी giving नेब्रास्का और tom ओसबोर्न उनके  3rd national championship in 4 years .
He  थी चुनी by the इंडियानापोलिस कोल्टस साथ the  first overall pick in the 1998 NFL Draft .
From 1998 to 2010 , he led the Colts to eight (  सात afc दक्षिण और एक afc ईस्ट ) प्रभाग championships , दो afc championships ,  and to a Super Bowl championship ( Super Bowl XLI ) .
He has won a record four league most valuable player awards , was the most valuable player of Super Bowl XLI , has been  नामित to बारह प्रो प्याले , रै बारह 4,000-yard गुजर सीज़न , और is the इंडियानापोलिस कोल्टस ' all-time नेता in गुजर गज (  54,828 ) and touchdown passes ( 399 ) .
in 2009 , he थी नामित the बेहतरीन खिलाड़ी in the एनएफएल और फॉक्स खेल साथ साथ खेल illustrated  named him the NFL player of the decade of the 2000s .
In  may 2011 , he underwent गर्दन सर्जरी to alleviate गर्दन पीड़ा और भुजा कमज़ोरी he dealt साथ दौरान the पिछला few सीज़न पहले  signing a five-year , $ 90 million contract extension with the Colts in July 2011 .
Manning had hoped to play in the 2011 season , but in September 2011 , he  underwent a much अधिक गंभीर दूसरी सर्जरी : a स्तर एक सर्वाइकल  fusion procedure .
Manning had never missed an  एनएफएल खेल in उसके करियर , लकिन थी मजबूर  to miss the entire 2011 season .
He was released by the Colts  on कूच 7 , 2012 , और बाद an लगभग two-week काल जहाँ he visited साथ  and worked out for several NFL teams , he signed with the Denver Broncos on March 20 , 2012 .
Manning 's pre-snap routine has earned him the nickname , `` The Sheriff '' and  is एक of the सबसे recognizable और parodied in the  NFL .
The Indianapolis Colts  ' लगभग विशेष उपयोग of the hurry-up ठोकर led to मैनिंग using an सरणी of इशारों और मौखिक  commands to call the play at the line of scrimmage rather than in the huddle .
The America Tower of the American General Center , the  मुख्यालय of बेकर ह्यूजेस
Baker Hughes is one of the world 's  largest oilfield सेवाएं कंपनियाँ .
It operates in over 90 countries , providing the oil and gas industry with products and services  लिये खुदाई , गठन मूल्यांकन , पूर्णता , उत्पादन और टंकी  consulting .
Baker Hughes has its headquarters in the America Tower  in the अमरीकी सामान्य बीच in neartown  , Houston .
Baker Hughes Incorporated was formed when Baker International and  ह्यूजेस औजार कम्पनी मिलाया in 1987  .
Baker Hughes operates worldwide with major offices in Liverpool ,  संयुक्त किंगडम ; सिंगापुर ; दुबई ; a शोध और मेंटेनेंस सुविधा in celle , जर्मनी ; lafayette , louisiana ; ह्यूस्टन , टेक्सास  ; Pescara , Italy ; and Kuala Lumpur , Malaysia .
The company is administered broadly in two hemispheres : the eastern  गोलार्ध साथ पाँच regions ( यूरोपीय , अफ़्रीकी , the मध्य ईस्ट , एशिया प्रशांत और russia/caspian ) और the पश्चिमी  hemisphere with four regions ( Canada , US Land , US Gulf , and Latin America ) .
Each of these regions  is subdivided into  markets .
The United States one- cent coin , commonly known as a  पैनी , is a ईकाई of करेंसी equaling एक one-hundredth of  a United States dollar .
The cent 's  प्रतीक is ¢  .
इसके obverse रै प्रदर्शित the प्रोफ़ाइल of अध्यक्ष  Abraham Lincoln since 1909 , the centennial of his birth .
From 1959 ( the  sesquicentennial of lincoln 's जनम  ) to 2008 , the reverse featured the Lincoln Memorial .
Four different  रिवर्स डिजाइन in 2009 सम्मानित lincoln 's 200th जन्मदिवस  and a new , permanent reverse – the Union Shield – was introduced in 2010 .
The coin  is 0.75 इंच  ( 19.05 mm ) in diameter and 0.061 inches ( 1.55 mm ) in thickness .
The U.S. Mint  's आधिकारिक नाम लिये a पैनी is `` '' और the u.S.  Treasury 's official name is `` one cent piece '' .
The colloquial term penny derives from  the अंग्रेजों सिक्का of the वही नाम , the pre-decimal संस्करण of जिससे था a समान मान  .
In American  अंग्रेज़ी , कौड़ी is the बहुवचन रूप , अन्य बहुवचन फ़ॉर्म पेंस और पेशाब  ( standard use in British English ) are not used .
As of 2012 , it costs the U.S. Mint  2.00 सेंट to मेक a cent क्युकी  of the cost of materials and production .
This figure  शामिल the mint’s फिक्स्ड components  for distribution and fabrication , estimated at $ 13 million in FY 2011 .
It also includes Mint overhead allocated  to the पैनी , जिससे थी $ 17.7  million for 2011 .
Fixed costs and overhead would have to be absorbed by other  circulating सिक्के बगैर the पैनी .
The loss in profitability due to producing the  एक cent सिक्का in the संयुक्त राज्य लिये the साल of  2012 was $ 58,000,000 .
This was a slight decrease from 2011  , the साल पहले , जिससे था a उत्पादन  loss of $ 60,200,000 .
or more specifically , are ornamental varieties of domesticated common carp ( Cyprinus  carpio ) कि हैं रखा लिये सजावटी उद्देश्य in बाहरी कोई तालाबों  or water gardens .
Koi varieties are  विशिष्ट by coloration , patterning  , and scalation .
Some of the  प्रमुख रंगों हैं श्वेत , ब्लैक , रेड , पीला ,  blue , and cream .
The most popular category  of कोई is the gosanke , जिससे is बना up of the kohaku , taisho sanshoku  , and Showa Sanshoku varieties .
The American Federation of Government Employees ( AFGE ) is an American labor union representing over  650,000 कर्मचारी of the संघीय सरकारी , परिचय 5,000 कर्मचारी of the ज़िला of कोलंबिया  , and a few hundred private sector employees , mostly in and around federal facilities .
AFGE is the largest union for civilian , non- postal federal employees and the largest union  लिये ज़िला of कोलंबिया कर्मचारी जो रपट सीधे to the महापौर ( i.e. , बाहर  of D.C. public schools ) .
It is  संबद्ध साथ the afl-cio .
A late Silurian  sporangium  .
Green  : a spore tetrad  .
ब्लू : a spore bearing a trilete  mark – the -shaped scar .
The spores are  परिचय 30-35 μm आरपार
The evolution of plants has resulted in  increasing स्तर of जटिलता , इससे the earliest algal  mats , through bryophytes , lycopods , ferns to the complex gymnosperms and angiosperms of today .
While many of the groups  जिससे appeared पहले continue to thrive , विशेषकर in the environments  in which they evolved , for a time each new grade of organisation became more `` successful '' than its predecessors .
In the Ordovician period , around ,  the पहला जमीन पौधे appeared  .
These  began to diversify in the लेट सिल्यूरियन काल , around , और the परिणाम of उनके diversification  are displayed in remarkable detail in an early Devonian fossil assemblage from the Rhynie chert .
इस chert preserved जल्दी  plants in cellular detail , petrified in volcanic springs .
By the middle of the Devonian Period , most of the features recognised in plants today are present , including roots , leaves  और द्वितीयक लकडी ; और , by लेट devonian टाइम्स , बीज था विकसित  .
Late Devonian plants had thereby reached a  उपाधि of परिष्कार कि अनुमत उन्हें  to form forests of tall trees .
Evolutionary innovation  जारी into the carboniferous काल और is स्टिल  ongoing today .
Most plant groups were relatively  unscathed by the permo-triassic extinction इवेंट  , although the structures of communities changed .
This may have set the scene  लिये the रूप of the flowering पौधे in the triassic ( ~ ) , और  their later diversification in the Cretaceous and Paleogene .
The latest major group of plants to evolve were the grasses ,  जिससे became महत्वपूर्ण in the mid-paleogene  , from around .
The grasses , as well as many  अन्य समूह , विकसित नई mechanisms of चयापचय to जीवित the कम और  warm , dry conditions of the tropics over the last .
The winning Super Bowl team  receives the विंस लोम्बार्डी  Trophy .
The Super Bowl is  an सालाना अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल खेल कि determines the चैंपियन of  the National Football League ( NFL ) .
The contest is  आयोजित in an अमरीकी नगर कि is चुनी तीन to चार सालो  beforehand , usually in warm-weather or domed sites .
Since 1971 , the winner of the American Football Conference ( AFC ) Championship Game has faced  the विजेता of the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल सम्मेलन ( nfc ) चैंपियनशिप खेल  in the culmination of the NFL playoffs .
Before the 1970 merger between the  अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल लीग ( afl ) और the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग ( एनएफएल  ) , the two leagues met in four such contests .
the पहला दो यहूद ज्ञात as the `` afl-nfl  World Championship Game . ''
Super  कटोरी iii in 1969 थी the पहला ऐसे खेल कि carried the `` सुपर कटोरी ''  moniker , the names `` Super Bowl I `` and `` Super Bowl II `` were retroactively applied to the first two games .
The NFC /NFL leads in Super  कटोरी विन्स साथ 25 , जबकि the afc /afL  has won 22 .
Eighteen different franchises , including teams that  relocated to another  city , have won the Super Bowl .
The Pittsburgh Steelers have won the  सबसे सुपर प्याले साथ छह championships ( रिकार्ड 6–2 ) , जबकि दोनो the डलास cowboys और सैन फ्रांसिस्को  49ers have five wins each ( Cowboys 5–3 ; 49ers 5–1 ) .
Dallas and Pittsburgh have the most Super Bowl  दिखावे साथ आठ , जबकि the भैंस बिल्स have the सबसे लगातार  appearances with four losses in a row from 1990 to 1993 .
The  नई इंग्लैण्ड देशप्रेमी , डेनवर broncos और मिनेसोटा वाइकिंग्स  have also lost a record four Super Bowls .
Buffalo and Minnesota are both 0–4  , डेनवर is 2–4 और नई इंग्लैण्ड is 3–4  .
The record for consecutive wins is two and is shared by seven franchises : the 1966-67 Green Bay Packers , the 1972-73 Miami Dolphins , the  1974-75 और 1978-79 पिट्सबर्ग स्टीलर्स ( the तभी टोली to accomplish इस feat twice ) , the 1988-89 सैन  Francisco 49ers , the 1992-93 Dallas Cowboys , the 1997-98 Denver Broncos , and the 2003-04 New England Patriots .
The only team with multiple Super Bowl appearances and  no नुकसान is the बाल्टीमोर ravens , जो in जीतना सुपर कटोरी xlvii  unseated and replaced the 49ers in that position .
Four current NFL teams have never  appeared in a सुपर कटोरी , सहित मताधिकार relocations और renaming : the क्लीवलैंड भूरा , डेट्रॉयट शेर , jacksonville jaguars , और  Houston Texans , though both the Browns and Lions had won NFL Championship games prior to the creation of the Super Bowl .
Martin County is a county located in the  u.S. राज्य of टेक्सास .
As of the  2010 जनसांख्यिकी  , its population was 4,799 .
Its  सीट is stanton  .
The  काउंटी is नामित लिये wylie मार्टिन  , an early settler .
Martin County is one of 30 prohibition  , or entirely शुष्क , काउंटी in the राज्य  of Texas .
Alkaline  phosphatase ( alp , alkp ) ( ) is a hydrolase एंजाइम जिम्मेदार लिये निकालना फास्फेट  groups from many types of molecules , including nucleotides , proteins , and alkaloids .
the प्रक्रम of निकालना the फास्फेट  group is called dephosphorylation .
As  the नाम suggests , क्षारीय phosphatases हैं सबसे  effective in an alkaline environment .
It is sometimes used  synonymously as मौलिक phosphatase .
triticale ( × triticosecale ) , ( ) is a संकर of गेहूं ( triticum ) और rye ( secale  ) first bred in laboratories during the late 19th century .
The grain was originally  करवाया in स्कॉटलैंड और स्वीडन  .
Commercially available triticale is almost always a second generation hybrid , i.e. , a cross between two  kinds of प्राथमिक ( पहला क्रॉस ) triticales .
As a rule , triticale combines  the उपज संभावित और अनाज विशेषता of गेहूं साथ the  disease and environmental tolerance ( including soil conditions ) of rye .
Only  recently रै it महरूम विकसित into  a commercially viable crop .
Depending on the cultivar ,  triticale can अधिक or कम resemble  either of its parents .
It is grown mostly for forage or fodder , although some  triticale-based भोजन can be खरीदा at स्वास्थ्य खाना स्टोर्स  or are to be found in some breakfast cereals .
When  क्रासिंग गेहूं और rye , गेहूं is प्रयुक्त as the मादा जनक  and rye as the male parent ( pollen donor ) .
The resulting hybrid is  बंध्य , और जरूर be treated साथ colchicine to induce polyploidy  and thus the ability to reproduce itself .
The primary producers of  triticale हैं कैंडल , जर्मनी , फ़्रांस , बेलारूस और  Australia .
In 2009 , according to the Food and Agriculture Organization  ( fao ) , 15.0 लाख टन यहूद harvested in  29 countries across the world .
The triticale hybrids are all  amphidiploid , जिससे अर्थात् the संयंत्र is द्विगुणित लिये दो genomes निकला इससे अलग  species .
In  अन्य शब्द , triticale  is an allotetraploid .
In earlier years ,  सबसे कार्य थी किया on octoploid triticale  .
अलग ploidy स्तर have महरूम निर्मित  and evaluated over time .
The tetraploids showed little promise , but hexaploid triticale was  कामयाब पर्याप्त to ढूँढें वाणिज्यिक अनुप्रयोग  .
The  cimmyt triticale सुधार कार्यक्रम चाही  to improve food production and nutrition in developing countries .
triticale रै संभावित in the उत्पादन of ब्रैड और अन्य  food products , such as cookies , pasta , pizza dough and breakfast cereals .
The protein content  is उच्चतर than कि of गेहूं , हालांकि  the glutenin fraction is less .
The  अनाज रै भी महरूम stated to have उच्चतर  levels of lysine than wheat .
Assuming increased acceptance , the milling  उद्योग होगा have to adapt to triticale , as the मिलिंग तकनीकों  employed for wheat are unsuited to triticale .
Sell et al .  मिला triticale could be प्रयुक्त as a फीड अनाज , और बाद  research found its starch was particularly readily digested .
As a feed grain ,  triticale is already खूब स्थापित और of ऊँची  economic importance .
It has received attention as a  संभावित उर्जा क्रॉप , और शोध is फिलहाल होने conducted on the उपयोग of the  crop 's biomass in bioethanol production .
`` Puff , the Magic Dragon  '' is a सोंग लिखा by लियोनार्ड lipton और पीटर yarrow  , and made popular by Yarrow 's group Peter , Paul and Mary in a 1963 recording .
The  सोंग हासिल ग्रेट  popularity .
A college football national championship in the highest level of collegiate play in the United States , currently the National Collegiate Athletic Association ( NCAA ) Division I Football Bowl Subdivision ( FBS  ) , is a नामांकन awarded annually by विभिन्न third-party संगठन to उनके चयन  ( s ) of the best college football team ( s ) .
Division I FBS ( formerly Division  i-a ) फ़ुटबॉल is the तभी ncaa खेल in जिससे a वार्षिक चैंपियन is नहीं संकल्पित by an  NCAA sanctioned championship event .
Because the championship  टोली is नहीं संकल्पित by a ncaa चैंपियनशिप or टूर्नामेंट इवेंट , it is sometimes unofficially referred  to as a `` mythical national championship `` .
Since the NCAA , the sport 's governing body , does not  determine or घोषित a नेशनल चैंपियन in इस फ़ील्ड  , determination of such has often engendered controversy .
A championship team is independently declared by various  individuals और संगठन , प्रायः referred to as `` चयनकर्ताओं  '' .
These choices are sometimes  at हालात साथ  each other .
While the NCAA has never  officially endorsed an सालाना चैंपियनशिप टोली , it रै प्रलेखित the चुनाव of  several selectors in the official NCAA Football Bowl Subdivision Records .
In addition , various third party analysts have  independently प्रकाशित उनके अपना सूचियाँ of कया वे have संकल्पित  to be the most legitimate selections for each season .
These are also often at odds with each other as well as  व्यक्तिगत स्कूल 's दावा on नेशनल championships , जिससे , लिये कोई particular ऋतु  , may or may not correlate to the selections published elsewhere .
Currently , two  widely पहचाना नेशनल champions चयनकर्ताओं हैं the संबद्ध दबायें , जिससे conducts a पोल of फ़ुटबॉल sportswriters , और the यूएसए आज कोच ' पोल , a पोल of अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल कोच  Association active coaches that is contractually obligated to name the winner of the Bowl Championship Series championship game as its national champion .
The Milwaukee  ब्रेवर्स हैं a पेशेवर बेसबॉल टोली आधारित  in Milwaukee , Wisconsin .
The team is a member of the Central Division of Major League  बेसबॉल 's नेशनल लीग और plays इसके घर खेल  at Miller Park .
The team is so named because of the city 's  संघ साथ the brewing उद्योग  .
The Washington Nationals  हैं a पेशेवर बेसबॉल  team based in Washington , D.C .
The Nationals are a member of the East Division  of the नेशनल लीग of प्रमुख लीग बेसबॉल  ( MLB ) .
The team 's home ballpark is  नागरिकों पार्क , स्तिथ on दक्षिण कैपिटल गली in southeast d.C.  , near the Anacostia River .
The park opened in 2008 ,  replacing rfk स्टेडियम , the टोली 's घर इससे  2005 to 2007 .
The  नागरिकों ' नाम गर्भाशयी इससे the पूर्व वॉशिंगटन  baseball team that had the same name ( used interchangeably with Senators ) .
Their nickname is  `` the nats '' —a shortened  version that was also used by the old D.C. teams .
an विस्तार मताधिकार , the क्लबों थी संस्थापित in as the मॉन्ट्रियल  Expos , the first major league team in Canada .
वे यहूद आधारित in मॉन्ट्रियल , क्यूबेक , और निभाई उनके घर खेल at  Jarry Park Stadium and later in Olympic Stadium .
In , the Expos won a division  चैंपियनशिप , जीती उनके first-ever playoff श्रेणी by defeating the फिलाडेल्फिया फ़िलीज़ , 3–2 , और उन्नत to the नेशनल लीग चैंपियनशिप श्रेणी , जहाँ वे होता go on to खोना to the  Los Angeles Dodgers , 3–2 , in their only postseason appearance during the strike-shortened season .
The Expos had their highest winning  प्रतिशत in the strike-shortened ऋतु of , जब the  team had the best record in baseball .
The team 's  subsequent shedding of खिलाड़ी caused प्रशंसक ब्याज  to drop off .
After the 2001 season , MLB considered revoking the team 's franchise ,  साथ साथ either the मिनेसोटा जुड़वा or the tampa खाड़ी शैतान  Rays .
After being purchased by MLB in 2002 , the team was moved before the season to Washington and renamed the Nationals , the first relocation  चूंकि the दूसरी वॉशिंगटन सीनेटरों स्थानांतरित to आर्लिंगटन , टेक्सास , और  became the Texas Rangers in .
The Nationals are one of two MLB franchises , and the only one in the National  लीग , कि रै never निभाई in a संसार श्रेणी ( the सिएटल  Mariners are the other ) .
A contingent fee ( in the United States ) or conditional fee ( in England and Wales ) is any fee for  सेवाएं provided जहाँ the शुल्क is देय तभी if  there is a favourable result .
In the law , it is defined as a `` fee charged for  a वकील 's सेवाएं तभी if the मुकदमा is कामयाब or is favorably settled  out of court ... .
Contingent fees are usually  गणना as a प्रतिशत of the क्लाएंट 's जाल  recovery . ''
In the English legal system , it is  generally referred to  as no win no fee .
A conditional fee  अनुबंध between a विधि कड़  and a client .
The usual form of this  अनुबंध is कि the solicitor होगा लो a विधि मामला on  the understanding that if lost , no payment is made .
However , if the case is won , the  वकील होगा be हकदार to the सामान्य  fee based on hourly billing , plus a success fee .
The success fee in  इंग्लैण्ड जरूर be as a प्रतिशत no वृहद than 100  % of the normal fee .
This contrasts with the contingency fee in the US , which gives the successful  attorney a प्रतिशत of the क्षतिपूर्ति awarded  in favor of his client .
This makes it  easier लिये the ग़रीब to pursue उनके सिविल अधिकारों चूंकि वरना  , to sue someone for a tort , one must first be wealthy enough to pursue such litigation in the first place .
However , because of the high risk , few attorneys will take  मामले on a आकस्मिकता आधार जबतक वे महसूस the मामला रै  good merit .
According to a 2004 book by law professor Herbert Kritzer , contingent fees were allowed as of that year in the following  देशों : ऑस्ट्रेलिया , ब्राज़ील , कनाडा , the डोमिनिकन गणतंत्र , फ़्रांस , यूनानियों ,  Ireland , Japan , New Zealand , the United Kingdom and the United States .
वे हैं भी अनुमत in निजी  injury actions in Lithuania .
Recently , they  have महरूम अनुमत in बेल्जियम  as well .
A Convocation ( Latin 'calling together ' ,  translating the यूनानी ecclesia ) is a समूह of लोगों formally  assembled for a special purpose .
Sons of  अराजकता is a टेलीविज़न नाटक श्रेणी निर्मित by कर्ट sutter परिचय the जीवनदान of a close-knit  outlaw motorcycle club operating in Charming , a fictional town in California 's Central Valley .
The show  centers on समर्थक जैक्सन `` जैक्स '' teller ( चार्ली hunnam ) , the then-vice  president of the club , who begins questioning the club and himself .
Sons of Anarchy premiered on  सितंबर 3 , 2008 , on केबल  network FX .
The third season of the series attracted an  औसत of 4.9 लाख दर्शक प्रति सप्ताह , बनाना it fx 's उच्चतम रेटेड श्रेणी कभी , surpassing  FX 's other hits The Shield , Nip/Tuck , and Rescue Me .
On February 3 , 2012 , Sons of Anarchy  थी नवीनीकृत लिये दो अतिरिक्त सीज़न  , a fifth and a sixth .
Those involved in the production of the series imply that a seventh  और फाइनल ऋतु is निर्माता कर्ट sutter 's  plan .
The Grímsvötn  sub-glacial झीलों ( ; vötn = `` waters '' , एकवचन : ) और the  volcano of the same name are in South-East Iceland .
They are in the  हाइलैंड्स of आइसलैंड at the  northwestern side of the Vatnajökull ice-cap .
The lakes  हैं at , at an  elevation of .
Beneath the lakes is  the मैग्मा कक्ष of the grímsvötn  volcano .
Grímsvötn  is a basaltic ज्वालामुखी जिससे रै the उच्चतम फटना आवृत्ति of  all the volcanoes in Iceland and has a southwest-northeast-trending fissure system .
The massive  climate-impacting laki फिशर फटना of 1783–1784 थी a भाग  of the same fissure system .
Grímsvötn was erupting at the same  समय as laki दौरान 1783 , लकिन जारी to  erupt until 1785 .
Because most of the volcano lies underneath  vatnajökull , सबसे of इसके eruptions have महरूम subglacial और the बातचीत of मैग्मा और meltwater  from the ice causes phreatomagmatic explosive activity .
On 21 May 2011 at 19:25 UTC , an eruption began , with high plumes accompanied by multiple earthquakes , resulting  in रद्दीकरण of 900 फ़्लाइट in आइसलैंड , और in the संयुक्त किंगडम , ग्रीनलैंड , जर्मनी , आयरलैंड और नार्वे  on 22–25 May .
Until 25 May the eruption scale had  महरूम larger than कि of the 2010  eruption of Eyjafjallajökull .
The eruption stopped at  02:40 utc on 25 may 2011 , हालांकि वहीँ थी कुछ विस्फोटक कार्यकलाप इससे the  tephra vents affecting only the area around the crater .
Vetting is the process of performing a background check  on किसी पहले offering उन्हें  employment , conferring an award , etc .
A prospective person or project  may be vetted पहले बनाना a भर्ती निर्णय  .
In addition , in intelligence gathering , assets  हैं vetted to determine उनके उपयोगिता  .
Former headquarters and  वर्तमान कॉरपोरेट  offices
Caesars Entertainment Corporation ( formerly Harrah 's Entertainment from 1995 to 2010 ) is an American public gaming corporation  कि owns और operates over 50 कसीनो , होटल , और सात गोल्फ़  courses under several brands .
The company , based in Paradise , Nevada , is the largest gaming company  in the संसार , साथ सालाना revenues of $  8.9 billion ( 2010 ) .
Caesars is a public company , with a joint venture of  अपोलो वैश्विक प्रबन्धन और टेक्सास प्रशांत समूह ownig a विशाल portion of the स्टेक और blackstone समूह भी  holding a significant stake .
The name change from `` Harrah 's Entertainment Inc.  '' to `` caesars entertainment निगम '' थी बना  official on November 23 , 2010 .
Harrah 's remains a  कुंजी ब्रांड in the कम्पनी  .
On  नवम्बर 5 , 2010 , harrah 's घोषित an आरंभिक पब्लिक offering of 31,250,000  shares but retracted this offering on November 19 .
A Permanent Resident in Canada is a person who is not a Canadian  नागरिक लकिन जो रै महरूम granted अनुमति to सजीव और कार्य in कनाडा बगैर कोई  time limit on his or her stay .
A permanent resident must  सजीव in कनाडा लिये दो सालो आउट  of every five or risk losing that status .
A Permanent Resident holds many of the same rights and responsibilities as a Canadian citizen , among others the right to work for any enterprise as well as  लिये the संघीय or प्रांतीय सरकारी ( अंतर्गत प्रतिबंध  of access rights to certain regulated professions ) .
the प्रमुख मतभेद हैं  that residents can not :
vote in  चुनावों in कनाडा  ;
run for  निर्वाचित दफ्तर  ;
hold  कनाडाई passports  ;
In addition , they may be  अनुमत to जुड़ें कनाडा 's हथियारबंद शक्तियां  if the national interest would not be prejudiced .
Permanent residents  भी रिस्क प्रत्यर्पण लिये गंभीर अपराधों  committed while resident in Canada .
Permanent residents may  लागू लिये कनाडाई नागरिकता बाद तीन सालो in कनाडा  ; however this is not mandatory .
Erica Kane is a fictional character  इससे the अमरीकी  ABC Daytime soap opera All My Children .
The character was portrayed by actress Susan Lucci from her debut on January 16 , 1970 until  the पिछला ब्रॉडकास्ट टेलीविज़न एपीसोड aired on सितंबर  23 , 2011 .
On February 11 , 2013 , it was  घोषित कि lucci होगा guest-star on the prospect पार्क 's  continuation of All My Children .
In  the u.S. , एरिका is माना  to be the most popular character in soap opera history .
Regarding the North-American  मार्केट , tv मार्गदर्शिका काल्स उसके `` unequivocally the सबसे प्रसिद्ध साबुन ओपेरा अक्षर in the इतिहास  of daytime TV '' , and included her in their 2013 list of The 60 Nastiest Villains of All Time .
A graph of the US CPI  इससे 1913 to 2006 ( in ब्लू ) , और इसके  percent annual change ( in red )
A consumer price index ( CPI ) measures changes in the  दाम स्तर of a मार्केट बास्केट of उपभोक्ता goods  and services purchased by households .
The CPI in the United States is defined by the Bureau of Labor Statistics as `` a measure of the average change over  समय in the कीमतें सशुल्क by शहरी उपभोक्ता लिये a मार्केट बास्केट  of consumer goods and services . ''
The CPI is a statistical  अनुमान constructed using the कीमतें of a नमूना of प्रतिनिधि वस्तुएं  whose prices are collected periodically .
Sub-indexes and sub-sub-indexes are  computed लिये अलग श्रेणी और sub-categories of goods और सेवाएं , होने संयुक्त to उपज the overall अनुक्रमणिका  with weights reflecting their shares in the total of the consumer expenditures covered by the index .
It is one of several  दाम indices गणना by सबसे नेशनल  statistical agencies .
The annual  प्रतिशत बदलें in a cpi is प्रयुक्त as a  measure of inflation .
A CPI can be used to index ( i.e. , adjust for the effect of inflation )  the रियल मान of मजदूरी , salaries , pensions , लिये regulating कीमतें और लिये deflating मौद्रिक magnitudes to दिखाएँ  changes in real values .
In most countries , the CPI is , along  साथ the जनसांख्यिकी जनसांख्यिकी और the यूएसए नेशनल आय और उत्पाद खाते , एक of  the most closely watched national economic statistics .
Knocking on wood , or to touch wood , refers to the  apotropaic परंपरा in पश्चिमी लोकगीत of वस्तुतः touching/knocking on लकडी , or merely stating कि तुम हैं doing or intend वही  , in order to avoid `` tempting fate `` after making a favourable observation , a boast , or declaration concerning one 's own death .
रॉकर भुजा
Generally referred to within the context of the internal combustion engine of automotive , marine ,  मोटरसाइकिल और प्रत्यागमनी विमानन इंजन , the रॉकर भुजा is an oscillating लीवर कि conveys रेडियल गति इससे the कैम पालि  into linear movement at the poppet valve to open it .
One  समाप्त is उठाया और lowered by a घूर्णन पालि of the camshaft  ( either directly or via a tappet ( lifter ) and pushrod ) while the other end acts on the valve stem .
When the camshaft lobe raises the outside of the arm , the inside  दबाता bas on the वाल्व स्टेम  , opening the valve .
When the outside of the  भुजा is permitted to वापसी due to the camshafts रोटेशन , the  inside rises , allowing the valve spring to close the valve .
The  ड्राइव  cam is driven by the camshaft .
This pushes the rocker arm up and down about the  trunnion pin or रॉकर शाफ्ट  .
Friction may be reduced at the  पाइंट of सम्पर्क साथ the वाल्व स्टेम by a रोलर कैम अनुसरणकर्ता  .
A similar arrangement transfers the motion  via another रोलर कैम अनुसरणकर्ता to a दूसरी रॉकर  arm .
This rotates  परिचय the रॉकर शाफ्ट , और हस्तांतरण  the motion via a tappet to the poppet valve .
In this case this opens the  सेवन वाल्व to the बेलन सिर  .
The effective leverage of the arm ( and thus the force it can exert on the valve stem ) is determined by the  रॉकर भुजा अनुपात , the अनुपात of the अलहदा इससे the रॉकर भुजा 's बीच  of rotation to the tip divided by the distance from the center of rotation to the point acted on by the camshaft or pushrod .
Current automotive design favors  रॉकर भुजा ratios of परिचय 1.5:1 to 1.8:1  .
However , in the past  छोटी धनात्मक ratios ( the वाल्व लिफ्ट is वृहद than the कैम लिफ्ट ) और भी  negative ratios ( valve lift smaller than the cam lift ) have been used .
Many pre-WW2 engines  उपयोग 1:1 ( न्यूट्रल ) ratios  .
For car  इंजन the रॉकर बाहें हैं generally स्टील stampings , providing  a reasonable balance of strength , weight and economical cost .
Because the rocker arms are , in part ,  प्रत्यागमनी वज़न , excessive द्रव्यमान विशेषकर at the लीवर ends हद the इंजन 's क्षमता to पहुँचें ऊँची ऑपरेटिंग  speeds .
`` The Night  the लाइट्स गई आउट in जॉर्जिया '' is a दक्षिणी गोथिक सोंग लिखा by songwriter  Bobby Russell and performed in 1972 by his then-wife Vicki Lawrence .
Reba  mcentire बाद covered it  in 1991 .
Recorded in late October 1972 in United/Western Studios on Sunset in Hollywood and released less than two weeks later in November 1972 , the song centers around the older  bhai of the narrator , falsely convicted of और चलाया लिये a हत्या , जिससे the narrator herself रै वचनबद्ध  .
In postal mail , a  वापसी पता is an सुस्पष्ट समावेश of the पता of the व्यक्ति  sending the message .
It provides the recipient ( and sometimes authorized  intermediaries ) साथ a अर्थात् to determine कैसा to respond to the  sender of the message if needed .
The return address need not include a sender 's name , but should include address or  p.o . बक्सा विवरण in the वही रास्ता as the डिलीवरी  address should .
In some  देशों , the वापसी पता is conventionally स्तिथ  in the upper left hand corner of the envelope , card , or label .
In the United Kingdom , the return address is usually placed on  the रिवर्स of the लिफाफा  , near the top .
व्यवसायों प्रायः उपयोग लिफाफे  preprinted with a return address .
Many  individuals have चादरें of चिपकने लेबल्स  preprinted with their home address to affix to their correspondence .
Charities  sometimes शामिल ऐसे  sheets in mailshots .
Rolls of Return Address Labels can be purchased from companies that sell personalized  लेबल्स to provide individuals an आसान रास्ता to छिलके और स्टिक वापसी पता लेबल्स  to their envelopes .
the वापसी पता  is not required on postal mail .
However , lack of a return address  रोकता the डाक सेवा इससे होने समर्थ to वापसी the मद if it proves undeliverable ; ऐसे  as from damage , postage due , or invalid destination .
ऐसे मेल may यूँ  become dead letter mail .
Should the return address be of a different state or country , the  मेल may be routed through कि स्थान लिये आसानी  of return .
A nerve guidance  conduit ( भी referred to as an कृत्रिम तंत्रिका conduit or कृत्रिम तंत्रिका graft , as opposed  to an autograft ) is an artificial means of guiding axonal regrowth to facilitate nerve regeneration and is one of several clinical treatments for nerve injuries .
When direct  suturing of the दो आउट of a severed तंत्रिका can नहीं be संपन्नता बगैर टेंशन , the मानक नैदानिक  treatment for peripheral nerve injuries is autologous nerve grafting .
Due to the limited availability of donor tissue and functional recovery in autologous nerve grafting , neural  ऊतक अभियान्त्रिकी शोध रै केन्द्रित on the विकास of bioartificial तंत्रिका मार्गदर्शन conduits as an वैकल्पिक उपचार  , especially for large defects .
Similar techniques are also being explored for  तंत्रिका मरम्मत in the स्पाइनल cord लकिन तंत्रिका regeneration in the सेंट्रल बेचैन प्रणाली मुद्राएँ a वृहद  challenge because its axons do not regenerate appreciably in their native environment .
The creation of artificial  conduits is भी ज्ञात as entubulation क्युकी the तंत्रिका ends  and intervening gap are enclosed within a tube composed of biological or synthetic materials .
Whether the conduit is in the form of a biologic tube , synthetic tube or tissue-engineered conduit , it should facilitate neurotropic and neurotrophic communication between the proximal and distal  ends of the तंत्रिका गैप , ब्लाक बाह्य inhibitory कारकों , और provide a शारीरिक मार्गदर्शन लिये axonal regrowth  .
The most basic  उद्देश्य of a तंत्रिका मार्गदर्शन conduit is to combine शारीरिक ,  chemical , and biological cues under conditions that will foster tissue formation .
Materials that have been  प्रयुक्त to मेक biologic tubes शामिल रक्त बरतन और skeletal मांसपेशियां , जबकि nonabsorbable  and bioabsorbable synthetic tubes have been made from silicone and polyglycolide respectively .
Tissue-engineered nerve guidance conduits are a combination of many elements : scaffold structure ,  scaffold सामग्री , सेल्यूलर therapies , neurotrophic कारकों और biomimetic सामग्री .
The  चुनाव of जिससे शारीरिक , रासायनिक और biological cues to उपयोग is आधारित on the गुण of the तंत्रिका पर्यावरण  , which is critical in creating the most desirable environment for axon regeneration .
The factors  कि कंट्रोल सामग्री चयन शामिल biocompatibility  , biodegradability , mechanical integrity , controllability during nerve growth , implantation and sterilization .
Hardcore Pawn is an American reality television series produced by RDF USA ( later Zodiak USA ) and Richard Dominick Productions for truTV about the  day-to-day परिचालन of अमरीकी आभूषण और ऋण , a family-owned साहूकार दूकान स्तिथ at 20450 greenfield सड़क , between 8 मील सड़क और the  John C. Lodge Freeway in Detroit , Michigan .
The series premiered  on अगस्त 16 , 2010 , delivering दो लाख दर्शक , सेटिंग  a record as truTV 's most-watched series premiere ever .
amoxicillin  BP
Amoxicillin ( INN ) , formerly  amoxycillin ( बैन ) , और abbreviated amox , is a moderate-spectrum , bacteriolytic  , β-lactam antibiotic used to treat bacterial infections caused by susceptible microorganisms .
It is usually the drug of choice within the class because  it is बेहतर अवशोषित , following मौखिक प्रशासन  , than other β-lactam antibiotics .
Amoxicillin is one of  the सबसे आम एंटीबायोटिक  prescribed for children .
the ड्रग became उपलब्धियाँ  in 1972 .
Amoxicillin is susceptible to degradation by β-lactamase  -producing जीवाणु , जिससे हैं resistant to a व्यापक वर्णक्रम  of β-lactam antibiotics , such as penicillin .
For this reason , it is  प्रायः संयुक्त साथ clavulanic एसिड , a β-lactamase  inhibitor .
This increases effectiveness by  reducing इसके susceptibility to β-lactamase  resistance .
Lyndon Baines Johnson ( August 27 , 1908 – January 22 ,  1973 ) , प्रायः referred to as lbj , थी the 36th अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य ( 1963–1969 ) , a स्थिति he assumed बाद उसके  service as the 37th Vice President of the United States ( 1961–1963 ) .
He is one of only four people who served in all four elected federal  कार्यालयों of the संयुक्त राज्य : प्रतिनिधि , सीनेटर  , Vice President , and President .
Johnson , a Democrat from Texas , served as a United States  प्रतिनिधि इससे 1937–1949 और as a सीनेटर इससे 1949–1961 , सहित छह सालो as संयुक्त राज्य  Senate Majority Leader , two as Senate Minority Leader and two as Senate Majority Whip .
After campaigning  unsuccessfully लिये the लोकतांत्रिक नामांकन in 1960 , जॉनसन थी पूछा by जॉन F.  Kennedy to be his running mate for the 1960 presidential election .
Johnson succeeded to the presidency following the  हत्या of जॉन F. कैनेडी on नवम्बर 22 , 1963 , समाप्त कैनेडी 's पद और थी निर्वाचित अध्यक्ष in उसके अपना सही  , winning by a large margin over Barry Goldwater in the 1964 election .
Johnson was greatly supported by the Democratic Party and as President , he was responsible for designing the `` Great Society `` legislation  कि शामिल कानून कि upheld सिविल अधिकारों , पब्लिक प्रसारण , medicare , medicaid , पर्यावरणीय सुरक्षा , सहायता to शिक्षा ,  and his `` War on Poverty . ''
जॉनसन थी प्रसिद्ध लिये उसके domineering व्यक्तित्व और the `` जॉनसन उपचार  , '' his coercion of powerful politicians in order to advance legislation .
Meanwhile , Johnson escalated  अमरीकी भागीदारी in the वियतनाम युद्ध , इससे 16,000 अमरीकी advisors/soldiers in 1963 to 550,000 कॉम्बैट सैनिकों  in early 1968 , as American casualties soared and the peace process bogged down .
The involvement stimulated a large angry antiwar movement  आधारित विशेषकर on विश्वविद्यालयों campuses  in the U.S. and abroad .
Summer riots  broke आउट in सबसे प्रमुख शहरों बाद 1965 , और अपराधों  rates soared , as his opponents raised demands for `` law and order '' policies .
The Democratic Party split in multiple feuding factions  , और बाद जॉनसन किया poorly in the 1968 नई हैम्पशायर  primary , he ended his bid for reelection .
रिपब्लिकन रिचर्ड निक्सन थी निर्वाचित to  succeed him .
Historians argue  कि जॉनसन 's प्रेसिडेंसी चिह्नित the  peak of modern liberalism in the United States after the New Deal era .
Johnson is ranked favorably by  कुछ इतिहासकारों क्युकी of उसके घरेलू नीतियों  .
The Big Bang Theory  डाल at कॉमिक कॉन 2009 , इससे बाएँ : कुणाल  Nayyar , Simon Helberg , Kaley Cuoco , Jim Parsons , and Johnny Galecki
The American sitcom The  बिग बंग सिद्धान्त , निर्मित और कार्यपालिका उत्पादित by चक lorre  and Bill Prady , premiered on CBS on September 24 , 2007 .
The show centers on five characters : roommates Sheldon Cooper and Leonard Hofstadter , two Caltech physicists ; Penny , a waitress and aspiring  अभिनेत्री जो जीवनदान आरपार the हॉल ; और लियोनार्ड और शेल्डन 's मित्रों और co-workers aerospace इंजीनियर हावर्ड wolowitz ,  and astrophysicist Rajesh Koothrappali .
Over time , several supporting characters have been promoted to starring roles : Leslie Winkle ( season 1 recurring ; season 2 regular ; season 3 guest ) , a physicist colleague , and , at different times , a lover of both Leonard and Howard ; Bernadette Rostenkowski-Wolowitz ( season 3 recurring ; season 4-present regular ) , a  microbiologist , हावर्ड 's fiancée और subsequent बीवी , और पूर्व part-time वेट्रेस alongside पैनी ; neuroscientist एमी farrah fowler ( ऋतु 3 अतिथि ; ऋतु 4 पुनरावर्ती ; ऋतु 4-present नियमित ) , जो joins the समूह बाद होने matched to शेल्डन on a डेटिंग जालस्थल ; और कॉमिक किताब store-owner , स्टुअर्ट खिलते ( सीज़न 2–5 पुनरावर्ती  ; season 6-present regular ) , who replaces Howard as Raj 's best friend when Howard is in space .
The show also features numerous  supporting वर्ण , प्रत्येक of जिसको plays a prominent भूमिका in  a small group of episodes .
The American Civil  युद्ध ( acw ) , भी ज्ञात as the युद्ध between the राज्य or बस the सिविल युद्ध ( देखिए नामकरण ) , थी a सिविल युद्ध लड़ा इससे 1861 to 1865 between the संयुक्त  States ( the `` Union '' or the `` North '' ) and several Southern slave states that declared their secession and formed the Confederate States of America ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ) .
The war had its origin in the issue of slavery , especially the  एक्सटेंशन of गुलामी into the पश्चिमी territories  .
Foreign  शक्तियां किया नहीं intervene  .
After four  सालो of खूनी कॉम्बैट कि बाएँ over 600,000 सैनिको मुर्दे और नष्ट much of the  South 's infrastructure , the Confederacy collapsed , slavery was abolished , and the difficult Reconstruction process of restoring national unity and guaranteeing rights to the freed slaves began .
In the 1860 presidential election , Republicans , led by Abraham  lincoln , opposed expanding गुलामी into संयुक्त राज्य  ' territories .
Lincoln won ,  लकिन पहले उसके उद्घाटन on कूच 4 , 1861  , seven cotton-based slave states formed the Confederacy .
Outgoing Democratic President  जेम्स बुकानन और the आवक republicans अस्वीकृत secession  as illegal .
Lincoln 's inaugural address  घोषित उसके प्रशासन होता नहीं  initiate civil war .
Eight remaining  स्लेव राज्य जारी to अस्वीकृत  calls for secession .
Confederate forces seized  numerous संघीय दुर्गों भीतर territory claimed  by the Confederacy .
A Peace  सम्मेलन विफल to ढूँढें a सुलह  , and both sides prepared for war .
The Confederates assumed that European  देशों यहूद so निर्भर on `` किंग कपास `` कि वे होता intervene ; none किया और none पहचाना  the new Confederate States of America .
Hostilities began on  अप्रैल 12 , 1861 , जब confederate शक्तियां fired upon फोर्ट sumter , a कुंजी  fort held by Union troops in South Carolina .
Lincoln  पुकारा लिये प्रत्येक राज्य to provide सैनिकों to retake the फोर्ट ; नतीजतन , चार  more slave states joined the Confederacy , bringing their total to eleven .
The Union soon controlled the  किनारा राज्य और स्थापित a नवल नाकेबंदी  that crippled the southern economy .
the पूर्वी थिएटर थी inconclusive  in 1861–62 .
The autumn 1862  confederate अभियान into मेरीलैंड ( a संघ राज्य  ) ended with Confederate retreat at the Battle of Antietam , dissuading British intervention .
Lincoln issued the  emancipation उदघोषणा , जिससे बना समाप्ति गुलामी  a war goal .
To the west , by summer 1862  the संघ नष्ट the confederate नदी नेवी , तब much of उनके पश्चिमी सेना , और the संघ at vicksburg विभाजित the confederacy in दो at  the Mississippi River .
in 1863 , रॉबर्ट E. ली 's confederate incursion  north ended at the Battle of Gettysburg .
Western successes led to Ulysses S.  ग्रान्ट कमांड of सब संघ सेना in 1864 .
in the पश्चिमी थिएटर , विलियम T. शरमन drove ईस्ट  to capture Atlanta and marched to the sea , destroying Confederate infrastructure along the way .
The Union marshaled the resources and manpower to attack  the confederacy इससे सब दिशानिर्देश , और could afford to लड़ो लड़ाइयों of अपघर्षण through the  Overland Campaign towards Richmond , the Confederate capital .
The  defending confederate फौज विफल , अग्रणी to ली 's आत्मसमर्पण to ग्रान्ट  at Appomattox Court House on April 9 , 1865 .
The American Civil  युद्ध थी एक of the earliest  true industrial wars .
railroads , the टेलीग्राफ , steamships  , and mass-produced weapons were employed extensively .
The  mobilization of civilian कारखानों , खानों , shipyards , बैंको , परिवहन  and food supplies all foreshadowed World War I .
It remains the deadliest war in American history , resulting in  the मौतों of an अनुमानित 750,000 सैनिको और an undetermined  number of civilian casualties .
Historian John Huddleston estimates the death toll at  टेन प्रतिशत of सब उत्तरी males 20–45 सालो बूढ़ा , और 30 प्रतिशत of सब दक्षिणी  white males aged 18–40 .
Human evolution refers to the evolutionary process leading up to  the रूप of आधुनिक  humans .
While it began with the last common ancestor of all life , the topic usually covers only the evolutionary history of primates , in particular the genus Homo , and the  emergence of होमो sapiens as a पृथक प्रजाति of hominids ( or `` ग्रेट apes ''  ) .
The study of human evolution involves many  वैज्ञानिक disciplines , सहित शारीरिक मानवशास्त्र , primatology , पुरातत्व , भाषाविज्ञान  , evolutionary psychology , embryology and genetics .
According to  जेनेटिक अध्ययन , primates diverged इससे अन्य स्तनधारियों परिचय  in the Late Cretaceous period , and the earliest fossils appear in the Paleocene , around .
The family  मानवनुमा diverged इससे the hylobatidae ( गिबन ) परिवार  15-20 million years ago , and around , the Ponginae ( orangutans ) , diverged from the Hominidae family .
Bipedalism is the basic adaption of the Hominin line , and the earliest bipedal Hominin  is माना to be either sahelanthropus or orrorin , साथ ardipithecus , a पूरा  bipedal , coming somewhat later .
The gorilla and chimpanzee diverged around the same time ,  परिचय 4-6 लाख सालो पहले , और  either Sahelanthropus or Orrorin may be our last shared ancestor with them .
The early bipedals  आखिरकार विकसित into the australopithecines  and later the genus Homo .
The earliest documented members of the genus Homo are Homo habilis which  विकसित around ; the earliest प्रजाति लिये जिससे वहीँ is  positive evidence of use of stone tools .
The brains of these early hominins  यहूद परिचय the वही आकार  as that of a chimpanzee .
During the  अगला लाख सालो a प्रक्रम of encephalization began , और  with the arrival of Homo erectus in the fossil record , cranial capacity had doubled to 850 cm3 .
Homo erectus and Homo ergaster were the first of the hominina to leave Africa , and these species spread  through अफ़्रीकी , एशिया , और यूरोपीय between .
It is believed that these species were  the पहला to उपयोग आग और जटिल टूल्स  .
According to the Recent African  ancestry सिद्धान्त , आधुनिक इंसानो विकसित in अफ़्रीकी संभवतः इससे होमो heidelbergensis , होमो rhodesiensis or होमो antecessor और migrated आउट of the महाद्वीप  some 50,000 to 100,000 years ago , replacing local populations of Homo erectus , Homo denisova , Homo floresiensis and Homo neanderthalensis .
archaic होमो sapiens , the forerunner of  anatomically modern humans , evolved between 400,000 and 250,000 years ago .
Recent DNA evidence suggests that several haplotypes of Neanderthal origin are present among all non-African populations , and Neanderthals and other  hominids , ऐसे as denisova hominin may have contributed up to 6 % of उनके genome to present-day इंसानs. < संदर्भ name= '' 10.1126/science.1209202 '' > anatomically आधुनिक इंसानो विकसित इससे archaic होमो sapiens in the  Middle Paleolithic , about 200,000 years ago .
The transition to behavioral modernity with the development of symbolic culture , language , and  specialized lithic प्रौद्योगिकी happened around 50,000 सालो पहले according to अनेक विज्ञानियों हालांकि कुछ सुझाएँ  a gradual change in behavior over a longer time span .
Lisa Cuddy ,  m.d . , is a fictional अक्षर on the  Fox network medical drama House .
She is  portrayed  by Lisa Edelstein .
Cuddy was the Dean of Medicine and hospital administrator of the fictional  princeton-plainsboro शिक्षण हॉस्पिटल in  New Jersey .
She also becomes  हाउस 's प्रेम ब्याज through the सालो  to start a relationship with him in season seven .
Cuddy  छोड़ो उसके जॉब बाद the कार्यक्रम of ऋतु सात 's  finale `` Moving On `` .
Track and  फ़ील्ड is a खेल comprising विभिन्न प्रतिस्पर्धी एथलेटिक  contests based on running , jumping , and throwing .
The name of the sport derives from the  प्रतियोगिता स्थान : a स्टेडियम साथ an ओवल कार्यशील track around  a grass field .
The throwing and  कूद कार्यक्रम generally लो प्लेस  in the central enclosed area .
Track and field falls under the umbrella sport of athletics , which also  शामिल सड़क कार्यशील , क्रॉस देश कार्यशील ,  and race walking .
The two most  prestigious अंतरराष्ट्रीय track और फ़ील्ड प्रतियोगिताओं हैं आयोजित अंतर्गत the ध्वज of एथलेटिक्स : the एथलेटिक्स  competition at the Olympic Games and the IAAF World Championships in Athletics .
The International Association of Athletics  federations is the अंतरराष्ट्रीय शासी देह लिये track और फ़ील्ड  .
Track and field  कार्यक्रम हैं generally व्यक्तिगत खेल साथ  athletes challenging each other to decide a single victor .
The racing events are won by the athlete with the fastest time , while the jumping and throwing  कार्यक्रम हैं जीती by the खिलाड़ी जो रै हासिल the महानतम अलहदा or ऊँचाई  in the contest .
The running events are  categorised as sprints , मध्य और long-distance  events , relays , and hurdling .
Regular jumping events include long jump , triple jump  , ऊँची जम्प और ध्रुव वॉल्ट , जबकि the सबसे आम फेंकना  events are shot put , javelin , discus and hammer .
There are also `` combined  कार्यक्रम '' , ऐसे as heptathlon और decathlon , in जिससे एथलीट compete in a क्रमांक  of the above events .
Records are kept  of the बेहतरीन प्रदर्शन in विशिष्ट कार्यक्रम , at संसार  and national levels , right down to a personal level .
however , if एथलीट हैं deemed to have violated the इवेंट 's नियम or regulations  , they are disqualified from the competition and their marks are erased .
In North America , the term track and field may be  प्रयुक्त to refer to एथलेटिक्स in सामान्य , बल्कि than specifically track  and field events .
The Gulf War ( 2 August 1990 – 28 February 1991 ) , codenamed Operation  मरुस्थल तूफ़ान ( 17 जनवरी 1991 – 28 फ़रवरी 1991 ) थी a युद्ध waged by a u.n.-authorized गठबन्धन फ़ोर्स  from 34 nations led by the United States , against Iraq in response to Iraq 's invasion and annexation of Kuwait .
The war is also known  अंतर्गत अन्य names , ऐसे as the पारसी गल्फ युद्ध , पहला गल्फ युद्ध , गल्फ युद्ध i , or the पहला इराकी युद्ध , पहले the पद  `` Iraq War '' became identified instead with the 2003 Iraq War ( also referred to in the U.S. as `` Operation Iraqi Freedom '' ) .
Kuwait 's  आक्रमण by इराकी सैनिकों कि began 2 अगस्त 1990 थी मिले साथ अंतरराष्ट्रीय condemnation , और brought तात्कालिक आर्थिक  sanctions against Iraq by members of the U.N. Security Council .
U.S. President  जार्ज H. W. बुश तैनात u.S. शक्तियां into सऊदी अरब , और  urged other countries to send their own forces to the scene .
An array of nations  joined the गठबन्धन  .
The great majority of the Coalition 's military forces were from the  u.S. , साथ सऊदी अरब , the संयुक्त किंगडम और मिश्र as अग्रणी योगदानकर्ता  , in that order .
Saudi Arabia paid around  us $ 36 अरब of the us $  60 billion cost .
The war was marked by the beginning of live  न्यूज on the सामने लाइनों of the लड़ो , साथ the  primacy of the U.S. network CNN .
The war has also earned the nickname Video Game War after the daily  ब्रॉडकास्ट बिंब on फलक the u.S. बमवर्षक दौरान आपरेशन  Desert Storm .
The initial conflict  to निकाल इराकी सैनिकों इससे कुवैत began साथ an aerial बमबारी  on 17 January 1991 .
This was  followed by a मैदान उत्पीड़न  on 24 February .
This was a decisive victory for the Coalition forces ,  जो liberated कुवैत और उन्नत into इराकी territory  .
The Coalition ceased their  अग्रिम , और घोषित a cease-fire 100 घंटों बाद  the ground campaign started .
Aerial and ground combat was  confined to इराकी , कुवैत , और क्षेत्रों on सऊदी अरब 's  border .
इराकी शुभारम्भ scud मिसाइलें विरूद्ध  Coalition military targets in Saudi Arabia and against Israel .
The nickel , in American usage , is a  five- cent सिक्का जारी by the संयुक्त राज्य  Mint .
Composed of 75 % copper and 25 % nickel ,  the टुकड़ा रै महरूम struck चूंकि 1866 .
The silver half  dime , बराबर to पाँच सेंट , था महरूम  issued since the 1790s .
The American Civil War  caused आर्थिक hardship , ड्राइविंग सुनहरा और चांदी इससे परिसंचरण ; in जवाब , in प्लेस of low-value  coins , the government at first issued paper currency .
In 1865 , Congress abolished the five-cent fractional currency note after Spencer M.  क्लार्क , सिर of the करेंसी ब्यूरो ( आज the ब्यूरो of नक्काशी और मुद्रण  ) , placed his own portrait on the denomination .
After successful  परिचय of two-cent और three-cent टुकड़े , बगैर अनमोल मेटल , कॉंग्रेस भी प्राधिकृत  a five-cent piece consisting of base metal ; the Mint began striking this version in 1866 .
The initial design of the  शील्ड निकल थी struck जबतक 1883 , तब  replaced by the Liberty Head nickel .
The Buffalo nickel was introduced in  1913 as भाग of a ड्राइव to बढ़ाएँ  the beauty of American coinage ; in 1938 , the Jefferson nickel followed .
In 2004 and 2005 , special designs  in सम्मान of the bicentennial of the लुईस और क्लार्क expedition  were issued .
In 2006 , the Mint  reverted to using जेफरसन निकल पंक्तियां फेलिक्स schlag 's असली रिवर्स ( or `` tails  '' side ) , although a new obverse , by Jamie Franki , was substituted .
As of 2013 , it costs more than eleven cents to produce a nickel ; the Mint is  exploring the सम्भावना of reducing लागत by using कम महंगी धातुओं  .
A poster with  पुष्प or क्लस्टर of पुष्प उत्पादित by बारह प्रजाति  of flowering plants from different families
A flower , sometimes known as a bloom or blossom  , is the reproductive ढांचा मिला in flowering पौधे ( पौधे of  the division Magnoliophyta , also called angiosperms ) .
The biological function of a  पुष्प is to प्रभाव जनन , प्रायः by providing a यांत्रिकी लिये the  union of sperm with eggs .
Flowers may facilitate outcrossing ( fusion of sperm and eggs from different individuals in a population  ) or allow selfing ( संलयन of शुक्राणु और अंडा इससे the वही पुष्प ) .
Some  पुष्प उपज diaspores बगैर  fertilization ( parthenocarpy ) .
Flowers contain  sporangia और हैं the साईट जहाँ  gametophytes develop .
Flowers  दे वृद्धि to फल और  seeds .
Many  पुष्प have विकसित to be आकर्षक to पशु , so as  to cause them to be vectors for the transfer of pollen .
In addition to  facilitating the जनन of flowering पौधे , पुष्प have long महरूम admired और प्रयुक्त by इंसानो  to beautify their environment , and also as objects of romance , ritual , religion , medicine and as a source of food .
the mcdonnell डगलस ( अभी बोइंग ) f-15 त्रिभुज is  a twin-engine , all-weather tactical fighter designed by McDonnell Douglas to gain and maintain air superiority in aerial combat .
It is considered among the most successful modern fighters , with over 100  aerial कॉम्बैट victories साथ no नुकसान in dogfights  .
Following reviews of proposals , the United States Air Force  चयनित mcdonnell डगलस ' डिज़ाइन in 1967 to मिलें the सेवा 's need लिये a समर्पित एयर बड़प्पन  fighter .
The Eagle first flew in July  1972 , और डाला सेवा  in 1976 .
Since the 1970s , the Eagle has been exported  to इसराईल , जापानी , सऊदी अरब , और अन्य  nations .
The F-15  थी originally envisioned as a pure एयर  superiority aircraft .
Its design included a secondary ground-attack  काबिलियत कि थी largely अप्रयुक्त  .
The design proved flexible enough that an all-weather strike derivative , the F-15E Strike  त्रिभुज , थी बाद विकसित , और डाला सेवा in 1989 .
The  f-15 त्रिभुज is अपेक्षित to be in  service with the U.S. Air Force past 2025 .
Mimio is a  ब्रांड नाम of a लकीर of प्रौद्योगिकी उत्पाद  aimed at the education market .
The primary  उत्पाद हैं केन्द्रित around कंप्यूटर whiteboard  interactive teaching devices .
MimioCapture  डिवाइस भी allow उपयोक्ता to कैप्चर सब of the स्याही स्ट्रोक्स  that are written on the whiteboard .
When used in  संयोजन साथ a वीडियो प्रोजेक्टर it turns the ordinary whiteboard  surface into a fully interactive whiteboard .
The  उत्पाद लकीर थी originally  designed by Virtual Ink .
On October 4 , 2006 Newell Rubbermaid acquired  the mimio इंटरैक्टिव whiteboard ( iwb  ) product line .
Rahab of  जेरिको
Rahab , ( ; ; ) was , according to the Book of Joshua , a  स्त्री जो जिया in जेरिको in the promised जमीन और assisted the israelites  in capturing the city .
Nearly all English translations  of जोशुआ describe उसके as a बदचलन  or prostitute .
The Organization of American States ( Spanish : Organización de los  estados americanos , पुर्तगाली : organização डॉस estados americanos , फ्रेंच : संगठन देस états américains ) , or the  OAS , is a regional international organization .
The  oas थी संस्थापित on 30 अप्रैल 1948 , और रै इसके  headquarters in Washington , D.C. , United States .
Its members are the 35  स्वतंत्र राज्य of the  Americas .
Since 26 May 2005 , the Secretary  सामान्य of oas रै महरूम जोस मिगुएल  Insulza .
Christopher Columbus ( Italian : Cristoforo Colombo ; Spanish : Cristóbal Colón ; Portuguese : Cristóvão Colombo ; before 31 October 145120 May 1506 )  थी an इतालवी एक्सप्लोरर , नाविक , और colonizer , born in the गणतंत्र of  Genoa , in what is today northwestern Italy .
Under the auspices of the Catholic Monarchs of  स्पेन , he समाप्त चार voyages आरपार the अटलांटिक  Ocean that led to general European awareness of the American continents .
Those voyages , and his efforts  to स्थापित स्थाई settlements on the द्वीप of हिस्पानिओला , initiated  the Spanish colonization of the New World .
In the context of emerging western imperialism and economic competition between European kingdoms seeking wealth through the establishment of trade  रूट और colonies , कोलंबस 's सट्टे प्रस्ताव , to पहुँचें the ईस्ट इंडीज by sailing westward , आखिरकार प्राप्त the support of the स्पेनी क्राउन , जिससे  saw in it a promise , however remote , of gaining the upper hand over rival powers in the contest for the lucrative spice trade with Asia .
दौरान उसके पहला voyage in 1492 , बजाय of reaching जापानी as he था intended , कोलंबस  landed in the Bahamas archipelago , at a locale he named San Salvador .
Over the course of three more  voyages , कोलंबस visited the वृहद और lesser antilles  , as well as the Caribbean coast of Venezuela and Central America , claiming them for the Spanish Empire .
Though Columbus was not the first  यूरोपीय एक्सप्लोरर to पहुँचें the americas ( having महरूम preceded by the नॉर्स expedition led by leif ericson in the 11th सदी ) , कोलंबस 's voyages led to the पहला स्थायी यूरोपीय सम्पर्क साथ the americas ,  inaugurating a period of European exploration , conquest , and colonization that lasted for several centuries .
They had , therefore , an  विशाल प्रभाव in the ऐतिहासिक विकास of the  modern Western world .
Columbus himself saw his accomplishments  primarily in the लाइट of the spreading of the ईसाई  religion .
Never admitting that  he था पहुँचे a महाद्वीप previously अनजान to europeans , बल्कि than the ईस्ट इंडीज he था नियत आउट लिये , कोलंबस पुकारा  the inhabitants of the lands he visited indios ( Spanish for `` Indians `` ) .
Columbus 's strained relationship with the Spanish crown and its appointed colonial administrators in America led to his arrest and  dismissal as राज्यपाल of the settlements on the द्वीप of हिस्पानिओला in 1500 , और बाद to protracted वाद over  the benefits which Columbus and his heirs claimed were owed to them by the crown .
करवाया in जर्मनी , the boxer is a नस्ल  of stocky , medium-sized , short-haired dogs .
The coat is smooth and tight-fitting ; colors are fawn or  brindled , साथ or बगैर श्वेत markings , जिससे may कवर the संपूर्ण देह .
Boxers are brachycephalic ( they have broad , short skulls ) , and have a square muzzle , mandibular prognathism (  an underbite ) , बहुत दमदार जबड़े , और a शक्तिशाली काटना आदर्श लिये फांसी on to विशाल  prey .
The  boxer थी करवाया इससे the बूढ़ा अंग्रेज़ी बुल और the  now extinct Bullenbeisser , and is part of the Molosser group .
Boxers were first exhibited in a dog show  लिये st. bernards in म्यूनिख in 1895 , the पहला boxer क्लबों होने  founded the next year .
आधारित on 2012 अमरीकी kennel क्लबों आंकडे , मुक्केबाज आयोजित स्थिर as the सातवाँ सबसे लोकप्रिय  breed of dog in the United States for the third consecutive year .
Serial ATA ( SATA ) is a computer bus interface that  connects मेजबान बस adapters to द्रव्यमान भंडार डिवाइस ऐसे as मुश्किल  disk drives and optical drives .
Serial ATA replaces the older AT Attachment standard ( ATA ; later referred to as Parallel ATA or PATA ) , offering several advantages over the older interface : reduced cable size and cost (  सात conductors बजाय of 40 ) , देशी hot swapping , तेज़ आंकड़ा ट्रांसफ़र through उच्चतर signalling दरों , और अधिक कुशल ट्रांसफ़र through an (  optional ) I/O queuing protocol .
SATA host adapters and devices communicate via a high-speed  सीरियल केबल over दो  pairs of conductors .
In contrast , parallel ATA ( the redesignation for the legacy ATA specifications ) used a 16-bit wide data  बस साथ अनेक अतिरिक्त support और कंट्रोल सिग्नल , सब ऑपरेटिंग at much  lower frequency .
To ensure backward compatibility  साथ विरासत ata तन्त्र और अनुप्रयोग , sata उपयोग the वही मौलिक ata और  ATAPI command-set as legacy ATA devices .
SATA has replaced parallel ATA  in उपभोक्ता डेस्कटॉप और लैपटॉप कंप्यूटर , और रै largely replaced  PATA in new embedded applications .
SATA 's market share in the  डेस्कटॉप pc मार्केट थी 99 % in  2008 .
PATA remains widely used in industrial and embedded applications that use CompactFlash  भंडार , भी हालांकि the नई cfast मानक is आधारित  on SATA .
Serial ATA industry compatibility specifications  originate इससे the सीरियल ata अंतरराष्ट्रीय संगठन (  aka .
SATA-IO ,  serialata.org  ) .
The SATA-IO group collaboratively creates , reviews , ratifies , and  publishes the interoperability विशेषताएँ , the परीक्षण मामले , और plug-fests .
As with many other industry compatibility standards , the  sata सामग्री स्वामित्व is transferred to अन्य उद्योग लाशें : primarily the incits t13 उपसमिति ata , the incits t10 उपसमिति ( scsi  ) ; a subgroup of T10 responsible for Serial Attached SCSI ( SAS ) .
the पूरा specification  from SATA-IO .
The remainder of this article will  कोशिश to उपयोग the शब्दावली और विशेषताएँ  of SATA-IO .
The history of the Internet began  साथ the विकास of इलेक्ट्रॉनिक कंप्यूटर  in the 1950s .
The public was first introduced to the concepts that would lead to the Internet when a message was sent over  the arpanet इससे कंप्यूटर विज्ञान प्राध्यापक लियोनार्ड kleinrock 's प्रयोगशाला at विश्वविद्यालयों of कैलिफ़ोर्निया  , Los Angeles ( UCLA ) , after the second piece of network equipment was installed at Stanford Research Institute ( SRI ) .
Packet switched networks such as ARPANET , Mark I at NPL in the UK , CYCLADES  , मेरिट संजाल , tymnet , और telenet , यहूद विकसित in the लेट  1960s and early 1970s using a variety of protocols .
The ARPANET in particular led to the development of protocols  लिये internetworking , in जिससे अनेक पृथक संजाल could be  joined together into a network of networks .
In  1982 , the अंतरजाल प्रोटोकॉल सुइट ( tcp/ip ) थी  standardized , and consequently , the concept of a world-wide network of interconnected TCP/IP networks , called the Internet , was introduced .
Access to the ARPANET was expanded in 1981 when the National Science Foundation ( NSF ) developed the Computer Science Network ( CSNET ) and again  in 1986 जब nsfnet provided अभिगम to महासंगणक साइट in the  United States from research and education organizations .
वाणिज्यिक अंतरजाल सेवा प्रदाताओं ( isps ) began to emerge in  the late 1980s and early 1990s .
the arpanet थी decommissioned  in 1990 .
The Internet was commercialized in 1995 when NSFNET was  decommissioned , निकालना the पिछला प्रतिबंध on the उपयोग of the अंतरजाल to carry वाणिज्यिक  traffic .
Since the  mid-1990s , the अंतरजाल रै था a क्रांतिकारी प्रभाव on संस्कृति और कॉमर्स , सहित the वृद्धि of near-instant संचार by इलेक्ट्रॉनिक मेल , तत्काल  messaging , Voice over Internet Protocol ( VoIP ) `` phone calls '' , two-way interactive video calls , and the World Wide Web with its discussion forums , blogs , social networking , and online shopping sites .
The research and  शिक्षा जातियाँ continues to develop और उपयोग उन्नत संजाल  such as NSF 's very high speed Backbone Network Service ( vBNS ) , Internet2 , and National LambdaRail .
Increasing amounts of data are transmitted at higher and higher speeds over  रेशा ऑप्टिक संजाल ऑपरेटिंग at 1-gbit/s , 10-gbit/s , or अधिक  .
The Internet 's takeover over the global communication landscape was almost instant in historical terms : it only communicated 1 % of the information flowing through two-way  दूरसंचार संजाल in the साल 1993 , already 51 % by 2000 , और अधिक than 97 % of the telecommunicated सूचना  by 2007 .
Today the  अंतरजाल continues to grow , चलित by कभी वृहद amounts of ऑनलाइन सूचना  , commerce , entertainment , and social networking .
The Gift is the second album by  स्कॉटिश सिंगर सुसान बॉयल , जिससे थी released on 8 नवम्बर  2010 .
Boyle hinted that the  एल्बम रै a 1960s महसूस `` क्युकी कि थी  [ her ] era '' .
on 30 November 2011 , the album received a  नामांकन in 54th ग्रैमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन परंपरागत  Pop Vocal Album .
`` This Is Just  to कह '' ( 1934 ) is a प्रसिद्ध  imagist poem by William Carlos Williams .
Professor Albus Percival Wulfric Brian Dumbledore is a major  अक्षर और समर्थक of J. K. रोलिंग 's हैरी कुम्हार  series .
For most of the series , he  is the हेडमास्टर of the wizarding स्कूल  Hogwarts .
As part of his backstory , it is revealed that he is the founder  और नेता of the अनुक्रम of the फीनिक्स , an संगठन समर्पित  to fighting the main antagonist of the series , Lord Voldemort .
Dumbledore is  portrayed by रिचर्ड हैरिस in the फिल्मी adaptions of हैरी कुम्हार और the पारस  's Stone and Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets .
After Harris ' death ,  माइकल gambon portrayed डम्बल्डोर लिये सब of the बाकी  films .
Rowling stated she chose the name Dumbledore , which is an Early  आधुनिक अंग्रेज़ी शब्द लिये `` bumblebee `` , क्युकी of डम्बल्डोर 's प्रेम of म्यूज़िक : वो  imagined him walking around `` humming to himself a lot '' .
Calcitonin ( also known as thyrocalcitonin ) is a 32-amino acid linear polypeptide hormone that  is उत्पादित in इंसानो primarily by the parafollicular कोशिकाएं ( भी ज्ञात as c-cells ) of the थायराइड  , and in many other animals in the ultimobranchial body .
It  अधिनियमों to reduce रक्त कैल्सियम ( ca2+ ) , opposing  the effects of parathyroid hormone ( PTH ) .
calcitonin रै महरूम मिला in मछली  , reptiles , birds , and mammals .
Its importance in humans has not been as well established as its importance in  अन्य पशु , as इसके फलन is प्रायः नहीं significant in the विनियमन of सामान्य कैल्सियम  homeostasis .
It  belongs to calcitonin-like  protein family .
A  mousepad साथ  a padded wrist rest .
A mousepad ( US ) or mouse mat ( UK ) is a surface  लिये रखकर और चलती a कंप्यूटर  mouse .
A mousepad enhances the usability of the mouse compared to using a mouse directly on a table by providing a surface to  allow the ट्रैकिंग led or बॉल ( in पूर्व मॉडल ) to माप गति  accurately and without jitter .
कुछ mousepads बढ़ाएँ ergonomics by  providing a padded wrist rest .
The stadium seen  इससे ऊपर in 1980
दिसम्बर 29 , 2002  implosion
The Riverfront  स्टेडियम साईट in जून  , 2006 .
This photo  थी लिया इससे the पश्चिमी concourse  of Great American Ball Park .
A small portion of the Riverfront Stadium site is now occupied by  the लाल ' हॉल of कीर्ति और संग्रहालय  and Main Street , which was extended when the new park was built .
the सिनसिनाटी bengals '  Paul Brown Stadium is in the distance .
Riverfront Stadium ( 1970–1995 ) ,  बाद ज्ञात as cinergy फ़ील्ड ( 1996–2002 ) , थी the घर of the सिनसिनाटी लाल नेशनल लीग बेसबॉल  team and the Cincinnati Bengals National Football League team .
Located on the Ohio River in downtown Cincinnati , the stadium was best known as the home of `` The  बिग रेड यंत्र `` , as the लाल यहूद  often called in the 1970s .
Construction  began on फ़रवरी 1 , 1968 , और थी समाप्त  at a cost of less than $ 50 million .
On June 30 , 1970 , the Reds  hosted the अटलांटा braves in उनके ग्रैंड खोलने , साथ हांक आरोन  hitting the first ever home run at Riverfront .
Two weeks later on July 14 , 1970  , riverfront hosted the 1970 प्रमुख  League Baseball All-Star Game .
This game is best remembered for the often-replayed collision at home plate between Reds star  पीट रोज़ और catcher रे fosse of the क्लीवलैंड इंडियंस  .
In  सितंबर 1996 , riverfront स्टेडियम थी renamed `` cinergy फ़ील्ड '' in a प्रायोजन सौदे साथ वृहद  Cincinnati 's energy company , Cinergy Corporation .
In 2001 , to  मेक रूम लिये ग्रेट अमरीकी बॉल  Park , the seating capacity at Cinergy Field was reduced to 39,000 .
There was a huge wall in  बीच फ़ील्ड दृश्य बाद the renovations ,  to serve as the batter 's eye .
The stadium was demolished  by implosion on दिसम्बर 29 , 2002  .
Nexen Tire is a tire manufacturer  , headquartered in yangsan , दक्षिण gyeongsang प्रांत  , and Seoul , both in South Korea .
Its  प्रमुख घरेलू प्रतिस्पर्धी  are Hankook Tire and Kumho Tires .
The  कम्पनी 's नाम is  reflected in the company slogan , `` Next Century Tire . ''
The silent  बहुमत is an अनिर्दिष्ट विशाल बहुमत of लोगों in a देश or  group who do not express their opinions publicly .
The term was popularized ( though not  पहला प्रयुक्त ) by u.S. अध्यक्ष रिचर्ड निक्सन in a नवम्बर 3 , 1969 , वाक in जिससे he कहा , `` और so tonight—to तुम , the ग्रेट  silent majority of my fellow Americans—I ask for your support . ''
In this usage it referred to  those अमेरिकी जो किया नहीं जुड़ें in the विशाल  demonstrations against the Vietnam War at the time , who did not join in the counterculture , and who did not participate in public discourse .
Nixon along with many others saw this group of Middle Americans  as होने निष्प्रभ in the मीडिया by the अधिक गायन  minority .
The phrase was used in the 19th century as a euphemism referring to all the people  जो have died , और अन्य have प्रयुक्त it पहले और बाद  Nixon to refer to groups of voters in various nations of the world .
Sam , a rhesus  मंकी , उड़ाया to an ऊँचाई of 88  km in 1959 .
( नासा  )
Before  इंसानो गई into स्पेस , अनेक पशु यहूद शुभारम्भ  into space , including numerous monkeys , so that scientists could investigate the biological effects of space travel .
The United States launched flights  containing primate कार्गो primarily between 1948-1961 साथ एक उड़ान  in 1969 and one in 1985 .
France launched two  monkey-carrying फ़्लाइट  in 1967 .
The Soviet Union and Russia  शुभारम्भ बंदरों between  1983 and 1996 .
Most monkeys  यहूद anesthetized पहले  lift-off .
Overall  thirty-two बंदरों उड़ाया in the  space program ; none flew more than once .
numerous back-up बंदरों भी गई  through the programs but never flew .
Monkeys from several species were used , including rhesus monkeys ,  cynomolgus बंदरों , गिलहरी बंदरों , और pig-tailed  macaques .
Some chimpanzees ( which  हैं apes बल्कि than बंदरों )  were also used .
RAID ( redundant array of independent disks , originally  अनावश्यक सरणी of inexpensive डिस्क ) is a भंडार प्रौद्योगिकी कि combines अनेक  disk drive components into a logical unit .
Data is distributed across the drives in one of  अनेक तरीके पुकारा `` रेड स्तर '' , depending on the स्तर of अतिरेक  and performance required .
The term `` RAID '' was first  पारिभाषित by दाउद पैटरसन , garth A. गिब्सन , और रैंडी katz  at the University of California , Berkeley in 1987 .
Marketers representing industry RAID manufacturers later attempted to reinvent the term to describe a redundant  सरणी of स्वतंत्र डिस्क as a अर्थात् of  disassociating a low-cost expectation from RAID technology .
RAID is now used as an umbrella term for  कंप्यूटर आंकड़ा भंडार योजनाएं कि can divide और replicate आंकड़ा among अनेक  physical drives : RAID is an example of storage virtualization and the array can be accessed by the operating system as one single drive .
The different schemes  or architectures हैं नामित by  the word RAID followed by a number ( e.g . RAID 0 , RAID 1 ) .
Each scheme provides a different balance between the key  लक्ष्य : विश्वसनीयता और उपलब्धता , प्रदर्शन  and capacity .
RAID levels greater than RAID 0 provide  सुरक्षा विरूद्ध unrecoverable ( सेक्टर ) पढ़ा त्रुटियाँ , as खूब as पूरे  disk failure .
A  lymphocyte is a प्रकार of श्वेत रक्त कोशिका in the vertebrate  immune system .
Under the microscope , lymphocytes can be divided into  विशाल lymphocytes और छोटी lymphocytes  .
Large granular lymphocytes include  प्राकृतिक कातिल कोशिकाएं ( nk कोशिकाएं )  .
Small  lymphocytes consist of t कोशिकाएं  and B cells .
The Big Lebowski is a 1998 dark comedy  फिल्मी लिखा और निर्देशित by जोएल और ethan  Coen .
Jeff Bridges stars as Jeff Lebowski , an unemployed Los  एंजिल्स slacker और avid बॉलर , nicknamed `` the यार .  ''
After a case of mistaken identity , The Dude  is introduced to a करोड़पति भी नामित  Jeffrey Lebowski .
When the millionaire Lebowski 's trophy wife is later kidnapped ,  he आयोग the यार to उद्धार  the ransom to secure her release .
The plan goes awry when The Dude 's friend Walter Sobchak (  जॉन गुडमैन ) योजनाएं to रखना the पूरा फिरौती  .
Steve Buscemi  , फिलिप seymour हॉफमन , दाउद huddleston , julianne मूर , tara reid , और जॉन turturro भी स्टार in the फिल्मी , जिससे  is narrated by a cowboy known only as `` The Stranger '' , played by Sam Elliott .
The film is  loosely प्रेरित by the कार्य of  Raymond Chandler .
Joel  कोएन stated : `` we चाही to do a चांडलर दयालु of स्टोरी – कैसा it चालें episodically , और  deals with the characters trying to unravel a mystery , as well as having a hopelessly complex plot that 's ultimately unimportant . ''
The original score was  रचित by कार्टर burwell , a longtime  collaborator of the Coen Brothers .
The Big Lebowski was a  निराशा at the u.S. बक्सा दफ्तर और प्राप्त  mixed reviews at the time of its release .
Reviews have trended towards the positive over time , and the film has become a cult  पसंदीदा , विख्यात लिये इसके idiosyncratic वर्ण , सपना sequences , unconventional संवाद , और eclectic  soundtrack .
Severus Snape is a fictional  अक्षर in the हैरी कुम्हार किताब श्रेणी लिखा  by J.K. Rowling .
In the first novel of the  श्रेणी , he is शत्रु toward हैरी और is निर्मित up  to be the primary antagonist until the final chapters .
As the  श्रेणी progresses , snape 's अक्षर becomes अधिक परतदार  and complex .
रोलिंग करता नहीं fully खुलासा the विवरण of उसके सच्चा loyalties  until the end of the final book , Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows .
Over the course of the series , Snape 's portrayal evolves from  कि of a दुर्भावनापूर्ण और दलगत टीचर to कि of a pivotal अक्षर of considerable  complexity and moral ambiguity .
Snape primarily teaches Potions at Hogwarts , though in the  छठे अनोखा he सिखाती रक्षा विरूद्ध the अंधेरा कला ,  a position which he was known to have desired throughout the series .
he ultimately becomes हेडमास्टर  of Hogwarts in the final novel .
रोलिंग रै वर्णित  him as `` a gift of a character '' .
Grits refers to  a ground-corn खाना of देशी अमरीकी उत्पत्ति , कि is  common in the Southern United States and mainly eaten at breakfast .
आधुनिक grits हैं commonly बना  of alkali-treated corn known as hominy .
Grits are  समान to अन्य मोटा maize-based porridges इससे  around the world such as polenta or the thinner farina .
`` Instant grits  '' have महरूम  processed to speed cooking .
The  शब्द `` grits '' गर्भाशयी इससे the बूढ़ा अंग्रेज़ी  word `` grytt , '' meaning coarse meal .
This word originally referred to  गेहूं और अन्य porridges अभी ज्ञात as groats in भाग  of the U.K..
Maize , unknown in Europe in the Middle Ages , is a food derived from corn ( a New World plant  ) और `` मकई '' था महरूम प्रयुक्त to describe गेहूं उत्पाद in अनेक यूरोपीय  regions .
`` Grits '' may be either singular or plural ; historically , in the American South the word  थी invariably एकवचन notwithstanding इसके बहुवचन रूप ( cf . ऐसे खाना names  as `` spaghetti '' or `` linguine '' , likewise plural in form , but singular in use ) .
Sometimes , grits  हैं पुकारा sofkee or sofkey ( इससे a  native American Muskogee word ) .
In molecular biology , human chorionic  gonadotropin ( hcg ) is a हार्मोन उत्पादित by the निषेचित अंडा बाद धारणा  .
Later during pregnancy it is  बना by the विकासशील placenta , और बाद by the placental घटक syncytiotrophoblast  .
कुछ cancerous tumors उपज इस हार्मोन ; इसलिए , elevated स्तर measured  when the patient is not pregnant can lead to a cancer diagnosis .
However , it is not known whether  इस उत्पादन is a contributing कारण or an प्रभाव  of tumorigenesis .
The pituitary  एनॉलॉग of hcg , ज्ञात as luteinizing हार्मोन ( lh ) , is उत्पादित  in the pituitary gland of males and females of all ages .
, the FDA has prohibited the sale  of `` होम्योपैथिक '' और over the काउंटर  hCG diet products and declared them fraudulent and illegal .
the लास वेगास स्ट्रिप संसार  of Coca-Cola museum in 2003
Coca-Cola is a carbonated soft drink sold in stores ,  रेस्तरां , और वेंडिंग मशीने in प्रत्येक देश मगर क्यूबा और  North Korea .
It is produced by The Coca-Cola Company of Atlanta , Georgia , and  is प्रायः referred to बस as कोक ( a पंजीकृत ट्रेडमार्क of the coca-cola कम्पनी  in the United States since March 27 , 1944 ) .
Originally intended as a patent medicine when it was invented in the late  19th सदी by जॉन pemberton , coca-cola थी खरीदा आउट by बिजनेसमैन asa griggs candler , जिनकी विपणन tactics led कोक to इसके  dominance of the world soft-drink market throughout the 20th century .
The company produces concentrate , which is then  बेची to licensed coca-cola bottlers  throughout the world .
The bottlers , who hold territorially  विशेष अनुबंध साथ the कम्पनी , उपज समाप्त उत्पाद in डिब्बे और बोतलों इससे the concentrate in संयोजन साथ filtered  water and sweeteners .
The bottlers  तब बेचें , वितरित और merchandise coca-cola  to retail stores and vending machines .
Such bottlers include Coca-Cola Enterprises , which is the  largest सिंगल coca-cola bottler in उत्तर अमेरिका और पश्चिमी यूरोपीय  .
The  coca-cola कम्पनी भी बिकता concentrate लिये सोडा स्रोतों to प्रमुख रेस्तरां  and food service distributors .
The  coca-cola कम्पनी रै , on अवसर  , introduced other cola drinks under the Coke brand name .
The most common  of ये is आहार कोक , साथ अन्य सहित caffeine-free coca-cola , आहार कोक  Caffeine-Free , Coca-Cola Cherry , Coca-Cola Zero , Coca-Cola Vanilla , and special versions with lemon , lime or coffee .
Based on Interbrand 's best  वैश्विक ब्रांड 2011 , coca-cola थी the संसार  's most valuable brand .
An ombudsman is an official , usually appointed by the government or by parliament but with a significant degree of  स्वतंत्रता , जो is चार्ज साथ representing the रूचि of the पब्लिक by investigating  and addressing complaints of maladministration or violation of rights .
In some countries an Inspector General , Citizen  एडवोकेट or अन्य आधिकारिक may have कर्तव्य समान to those of a नेशनल ombudsman , और may  also be appointed by the legislature .
Below the national level an ombudsman may be appointed by a state , local or municipal government , and  unofficial ombudsmen may be नियुक्त by , or भी कार्य लिये , a निगम ऐसे as a यूटिलिटी प्रदायक or a समाचारपत्र ,  for an NGO , or for a professional regulatory body .
Whether appointed by the legislature , the executive , or an organization  ( or , कम अक्सर , निर्वाचित by the constituency कि he or वो serves ) , the ठेठ कर्तव्य of an ombudsman  are to investigate complaints and attempt to resolve them , usually through recommendations ( binding or not ) or mediation .
Ombudsmen  sometimes भी उद्देश्य to पहचानो प्रणालीगत मुद्दे अग्रणी to  poor service or breaches of people 's rights .
At the national level , most ombudsmen have a wide  जनादेश to सौदे साथ the संपूर्ण पब्लिक सेक्टर , और sometimes भी तत्व of the निजी सेक्टर ( लिये उदाहरण , contracted सेवा  providers ) .
In some cases , there is a more restricted  जनादेश , लिये उदाहरण साथ particular  sectors of society .
More recent developments have included the creation of  specialised children 's ombudsman और सूचना कमिश्नर एजेंसियों  .
In some jurisdictions an ombudsman charged with  the हैंडलिंग of चिंताएं परिचय नेशनल सरकारी is अधिक formally referred to as the `` संसदीय  Commissioner '' ( e.g . the United Kingdom Parliamentary Commissioner for Administration , and the Western Australian state Ombudsman ) .
In many  देशों जहाँ the ombudsman 's remit extends परे dealing साथ कथित maladministration to promoting और protecting  human rights , the ombudsman is recognised as the national human rights institution .
The post  of ombudsman था by the समाप्त of the 20th सदी महरूम instituted by  most governments and by some intergovernmental organizations such as the European Union .
Making  a शिकायत to an ombudsman is  usually free of charge .
Sign at  georgetown विश्वविद्यालयों  Washington DC
चिह्न in बांजुल ,  The Gambia
Autumn  in नई इंग्लैण्ड , watercolor  , Maurice Prendergast .
Ca .  1910–1913
Fall  foliage in the कस्बा  of Stowe , Vermont
New England is a region in the northeastern corner of the United States consisting of  the छह राज्य of maine , नई हैम्पशायर , वर्मांट , मैसाचुसेट्स , rhode द्वीप  , and Connecticut .
New England is bordered  by नई यॉर्क राज्य to the दक्षिणपश्चिम , क्यूबेक  to the northwest , and New Brunswick and the Atlantic Ocean to the east .
In one of the earliest English settlements in North America ,  तीर्थयात्रियों इससे इंग्लैण्ड पहला settled in नई इंग्लैण्ड in 1620 , to रूप  Plymouth Colony .
Ten years later , the Puritans  settled उत्तर of plymouth उपनिवेश in बोस्टन ,  thus forming Massachusetts Bay Colony .
Over the next 130 years , New England fought in four  फ्रेंच और भारतीय युद्धों , जबतक the अंग्रेजों  defeated the French and their native allies in North America .
In the late 18th century , the New  इंग्लैण्ड colonies initiated the प्रतिरोध to the अंग्रेजों पार्लियामेंट 's  efforts to impose new taxes without the consent of the colonists .
The Boston Tea Party was a protest to which Great Britain responded with a series of punitive  कानून stripping मैसाचुसेट्स of self-government , जिससे यहूद termed the `` असहनीय अधिनियमों `` by the colonists  .
The confrontation led to open  warfare in 1775 , the expulsion of the अंग्रेजों अधिकारियों  from New England in spring 1776 , and the Declaration of Independence in July 1776 .
Some of the first  आंदोलनों of अमरीकी साहित्य , दर्शनशास्त्र , और शिक्षा  originated in New England .
The region played a prominent role in the movement to abolish slavery , and was the  पहला प्रदेश of the संयुक्त राज्य to be रूपांतरित by the औद्योगिक  Revolution .
Today , New England is a major world  बीच of शिक्षा , ऊँची प्रौद्योगिकी ,  insurance , and medicine .
Boston is its cultural , financial , educational ,  चिकित्सा और परिवहन बीच .
Each state is principally subdivided into small incorporated  municipalities ज्ञात as नई इंग्लैण्ड कस्बों , जिससे हैं  often governed by town meeting .
The only unincorporated territory in New  इंग्लैण्ड exists in the sparse , उत्तरी regions of वर्मांट , नई हैम्पशायर  , and Maine .
चूंकि 1970 , मतदाता have अधिक प्रायः समर्थित उदार उम्मीदवार at the राज्य  and federal level than those of any other region in the United States .
New England is  the तभी एक of the संयुक्त राज्य जनसांख्यिकी ब्यूरो 's नौ क्षेत्रीय विभाजन जिनकी नाम  does not derive from its geography , and it is the only multi-state region with clear , consistent boundaries .
It maintains a strong sense of cultural  पहचान नियत अलावा इससे the बाकी of the देश , हालांकि the शर्तें of  this identity are often contested , combining Puritanism with liberalism , agrarian life with industry , and isolation with immigration .
आपात  !
is  an अमरीकी टेलीविज़न श्रेणी कि combines  the medical drama and action-adventure genres .
It was produced  by चिह्नित सात सीमित और वितरित  by Universal Studios .
It debuted as a  midseason बदलना on जनवरी 15 , 1972 , on एनबीसी , replacing the दो short-lived श्रेणी the साझेदार  and The Good Life , and ran until September 3 , 1977 , with six additional two-hour television films during the following two years .
आपात  !
was created and  उत्पादित by जोकर webb और रॉबर्ट A. cinader , दोनो of जिसको  were also responsible for the police dramas Adam-12 and Dragnet .
The Eastern Time Zone ( ET ) encompasses 17  u.S. राज्य in the पूर्वी भाग of the संलग्न संयुक्त राज्य , भाग  of Canada and three countries in South America .
Places that  उपयोग पूर्वी मानक समय ( est ) जब observing मानक  time ( autumn/winter ) are 5 hours behind Coordinated Universal Time ( ) .
Eastern Daylight Time ( EDT ) , when observing daylight saving time (  spring/summer ) is 4 घंटों पीछे समन्वित सार्वभौमिक समय  ( ) .
In the northern parts of the time zone , during the second Sunday in March , at  2:00 a.m. est , घड़ियाँ हैं उन्नत to 3:00 a.m. edt leaving  a one hour `` gap . ''
During the first Sunday in  नवम्बर , at 2:00 a.m. edt , घड़ियाँ हैं स्थानांतरित वापस  to 1:00 a.m. EST , thus `` duplicating '' one hour .
Southern parts of the zone ( Panama  और the caribbean ) do नहीं observe daylight छायांकन  .
Standard form  of the आवधिक  table .
The colors represent  अलग श्रेणी of तत्व समझाया नीचे  .
The periodic table is a tabular display of the chemical elements , organized on the  आधार of उनके परमाणु संख्याएँ , इलेक्ट्रॉन configurations , और पुनरावर्ती रासायनिक  properties .
Elements are presented in order of increasing  परमाणु क्रमांक ( क्रमांक of protons ) .
The standard form of table  comprises an 18 × 7 ग्रिड or प्रमुख देह of तत्व  , positioned above a smaller double row of elements .
The table can also be deconstructed  into चार आयताकार ब्लॉक : the s-block to the बाएँ , the p-block to the सही  , the d-block in the middle , and the f-block below that .
The rows of the table are called  अवधि ; the कालम of the s- , d- , और p-blocks हैं पुकारा समूह  , with some of these having names such as the halogens or the noble gases .
Since , by definition , a periodic table incorporates recurring trends , any such table can be  प्रयुक्त to derive संबंध between the गुण of the तत्व और भविष्यवाणी  the properties of new , yet to be discovered or synthesized , elements .
As a result , a  आवधिक table—whether in the मानक रूप or कुछ अन्य variant—provides a उपयोगी फ्रेमवर्क  for analyzing chemical behavior , and such tables are widely used in chemistry and other sciences .
हालांकि precursors मौजूद , dmitri mendeleev is generally credited साथ the प्रकाशन  , in 1869 , of the first widely recognized periodic table .
He developed his table to illustrate  आवधिक रुझान in the गुण of the then-known  elements .
Mendeleev also predicted some  गुण of then-unknown तत्व कि होता be अपेक्षित  to fill gaps in this table .
Most of his predictions were  proved सही जब the तत्व in सवाल यहूद  subsequently discovered .
mendeleev 's आवधिक तालिका रै चूंकि महरूम विस्तारित और परिष्कृत साथ the डिस्कवरी  or synthesis of further new elements and the development of new theoretical models to explain chemical behavior .
All elements from  परमाणु संख्याएँ 1 ( हाइड्रोजन  ) to 118 ( ununoctium ) have been discovered or synthesized .
The  तत्व इससे 1 to 98 ( californium ) have महरूम मिला to मौजूद naturally , हालांकि कुछ हैं मिला तभी in ट्रेस amounts  and were initially discovered by synthesis in laboratories .
The elements after  98 have तभी महरूम  synthesized in laboratories .
Production of elements beyond ununoctium is being pursued ,  साथ the सवाल of कैसा the आवधिक तालिका may need to be परिवर्धित  to accommodate any such additions being a matter of ongoing debate .
Numerous synthetic radionuclides of  naturally occurring तत्व have भी महरूम उत्पादित  in laboratories .
minecraft is a सैंडबॉक्स इंडी खेल originally  created by Swedish programmer Markus `` Notch '' Persson and later developed and published by Mojang .
It was publicly released for the PC on May 17 , 2009 , as a developmental alpha version  और , बाद क्रमिक अद्यतन  , was published as a full release version on November 18 , 2011 .
a संस्करण लिये एंड्रॉइड थी released a माह पहले on अक्तूबर  7 , and an iOS version was released on November 17 , 2011 .
On May 9 , 2012 , the game was released  on एक्सबॉक्स 360 as an एक्सबॉक्स सजीव आर्केड खेल , co-developed by 4j studios  .
All versions of  minecraft प्राप्त आवधिक  updates .
The creative and building  पहलुओं of minecraft allow खिलाड़ी to निर्माण constructions आउट  of textured cubes in a 3D procedurally generated world .
Other activities in the game  शामिल खोजी , महफ़िल  resources , crafting and combat .
Gameplay in its  वाणिज्यिक रिलीज रै दो प्रिंसिपल मोड्स : अस्तित्व , जिससे requires खिलाड़ी to acquire संसाधन और maintain उनके स्वास्थ्य और  hunger ; and creative , where players have an unlimited supply of resources , the ability to fly , and no health or hunger .
A third gameplay mode named hardcore is the same as survival , differing only in difficulty ; it  is नियत to hardest सेटिंग और respawning is निष्क्रिय , forcing खिलाड़ी to हटाएँ उनके संसार upon  death .
Minecraft received five awards from the 2011 Game Developers Conference : it was awarded the Innovation  पुरस्कार , बेहतरीन downloadable खेल पुरस्कार , और the बेहतरीन डेब्यू खेल पुरस्कार इससे the खेल डेवलपर चुनाव पुरस्कार ; और the दर्शक पुरस्कार , as  well as the Seumas McNally Grand Prize , from the Independent Games Festival in 2011 .
In 2012 , Minecraft was awarded a Golden Joystick Award in the  श्रेणी बेहतरीन downloadable खेल  .
As of April 8 , 2013 , the game has sold over 10 million copies on PC and as of January 22  , 2013 , over 20 लाख नक़ल आरपार सब प्लेटफ़ॉर्म  .
The Dark Knight is a  2008 british-american सुपरहीरो फिल्मी निर्देशित  , produced , and co-written by Christopher Nolan .
Based on the DC Comics character Batman , the film is the second part of Nolan 's Batman film  श्रेणी और a sequel to 2005 's बैटमैन begins  .
Christian Bale reprises the lead role of Bruce Wayne/Batman , with a returning cast of Michael  caine as अल्फ्रेड pennyworth , गेरी oldman as जेम्स गॉर्डन और मॉर्गन फ्रीमैन as लुसियस फॉक्स  .
The film introduces the character of Harvey  डेंट ( आरोन eckhart ) , गोथम 's newly निर्वाचित ज़िला attorney और the consort of ब्रूस वेन 's बाल्यकाल dost  Rachel Dawes ( Maggie Gyllenhaal ) , who joins Batman and the police in combating the new rising threat of a criminal mastermind calling himself `` The Joker `` ( Heath Ledger ) .
Nolan  's प्रेरणा लिये the फिल्मी थी the जोकर 's कॉमिक किताब डेब्यू  in 1940 , the 1988 graphic novel , and the 1996 series , which retold Two-Face 's origin .
The nickname `` the Dark Knight '' was first applied to Batman in  बैटमैन no . 1 ( 1940 ) , in a स्टोरी लिखा by विधेयक  Finger .
The Dark Knight was filmed primarily in Chicago , as well  as in अनेक अन्य स्थितियाँ in the संयुक्त राज्य ,  the United Kingdom , and Hong Kong .
Nolan used an IMAX camera to film some sequences , including the  जोकर 's पहला रूप in the फिल्मी  .
On  जनवरी 22 , 2008 , कुछ महीने बाद he था समाप्त फिल्मांकन on the अंधेरा नाईट और छह महीने पहले the फिल्मी 's रिलीज , झाड़  Ledger died from a toxic combination of prescription drugs , leading to intense attention from the press and movie-going public .
warner भाईs. था initially निर्मित a वाइरल विपणन अभियान लिये the अंधेरा नाईट  , developing promotional websites and trailers highlighting screen shots of Ledger as the Joker , but after Ledger 's death , the studio refocused its promotional campaign .
The  अंधेरा नाईट थी released on जुलाई 16 , 2008 in ऑस्ट्रेलिया ,  on July 18 , 2008 in North America , and on July 24 , 2008 in the United Kingdom .
Considered one of the best films of the 2000s and one of the best superhero  films कभी बना , the फिल्मी प्राप्त अत्यधिक धनात्मक समीक्षाएँ और नियत numerous रिकॉर्ड दौरान इसके  theatrical run .
With over $ 1 billion in revenue worldwide , it is the  14th-highest-grossing फिल्मी of सब समय , unadjusted  for inflation .
The film received eight  अकादमी पुरस्कार nominations ; it जीती the पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन ध्वनि संपादन  and Ledger was posthumously awarded Best Supporting Actor .
The Dark Knight  उदय , the फाइनल भाग of the त्रयी , थी released on जुलाई  20 , 2012 .
The timeline of radio lists within the history of radio , the technology and events that produced  यंत्र कि उपयोग रेडियो लहरें और क्रियाएँ कि लोगों  undertook .
Later , the history is dominated by programming  और सामग्री , जिससे is  closer to general history .
The Sydney  ओपेरा हाउस is a multi-venue performing कला  centre in New South Wales , Australia .
It was conceived and largely built  by डैनिश वास्तु jørn utzon , खोलने in 1973 बाद a long  gestation that began with his competition-winning design in 1957 .
Joseph Cahill 's New South  वेल्स सरकारी दिया the go-ahead लिये कार्य  to begin in 1958 .
The government 's bold decision to select Utzon  's डिज़ाइन is प्रायः निष्प्रभ by the कांड  that followed .
It is on  bennelong पाइंट in सिडनी harbour  , close to the Sydney Harbour Bridge .
It sits at the northeastern tip of the Sydney central business district ( the CBD  ) , घिरी on तीन पहलू by the harbour ( सिडनी कोव और फार्म कोव ) और  inland by the Royal Botanic Gardens .
Contrary to  इसके नाम , it घरों अनेक प्रदर्शन  venues .
It is  among the व्यस्ततम performing कला केंद्रों  in the world , hosting over 1,500 performances each year attended by some 1.2 million people .
It provides a  स्थान लिये अनेक performing-arts कंपनियाँ , सहित the चार कुंजी निवासी कंपनियाँ ओपेरा ऑस्ट्रेलिया , the ऑस्ट्रेलियाई बैले , the सिडनी  Theatre Company and the Sydney Symphony Orchestra , and presents a wide range of productions on its own account .
It is also one of the most popular visitor  आकर्षण in ऑस्ट्रेलिया , साथ अधिक than सात लाख लोगों visiting प्रत्येक साल ,  300,000 of whom take a guided tour .
It is administered by the  सिडनी ओपेरा हाउस विश्वास , अंतर्गत the नई दक्षिण वेल्स  Ministry of the Arts .
On 28 June 2007 , it was  बना a युनेस्को संसार विरासत साईट  .
It  is एक of the 20th सदी 's सबसे distinctive  buildings and one of the most famous performing arts centres in the world .
A graph of body mass index as a function  of देह द्रव्यमान और देह ऊँचाई  is shown above .
The dashed lines  represent subdivisions  within a major class .
For instance the ``  underweight '' वर्गीकरण is further विभाजित into ``  severe '' , `` moderate '' , and `` mild '' subclasses .
The body mass index ( BMI ) , or  quetelet अनुक्रमणिका , is a माप लिये इंसान देह आकार आधारित  on an individual 's weight and height .
It was  devised between 1830 और 1850 by the belgian बहुश्रुत adolphe quetelet दौरान  the course of developing `` social physics '' .
Body mass index is  पारिभाषित as the व्यक्तिगत 's देह द्रव्यमान विभाजित by the वर्गाकार  of their height .
The formulae universally  प्रयुक्त in आयुर्विज्ञान उपज a ईकाई of माप  of kg/m2 .
BMI can also be determined using a BMI chart , which displays BMI as a function of  वज़न ( आड़ा अक्ष ) और ऊँचाई ( लंबवत अक्ष ) using रुपरेखा लाइनों लिये अलग  values of BMI or colors for different BMI categories .
† The factor for UK/US units is  अधिक precisely 703.06957964 , लकिन कि स्तर of परिशुद्धता  is not meaningful for this calculation .
To work from stone  और पाउंड पहला गुणा the स्टोन by 14 तब add the पाउंड to दे the पूरे द्रव्यमान in पाउंड ; to कार्य  from feet and inches first multiply the feet by 12 then add the inches to give the whole height in inches .
Thomas Paine ( January 29 , 1737 ( NS February 9 , 1737 ) – June 8 , 1809 ) was an  english-american राजनैतिक activist , लेखक , राजनैतिक theorist और  revolutionary .
As the author of two highly influential pamphlets at the start of the  अमरीकी क्रान्ति , he प्रेरित the देशप्रेमी in 1776 to घोषित  independence from Britain .
His ideas  reflected आत्मज्ञान era बयानबाजी  of transnational human rights .
He has been called `` a corsetmaker by trade , a  पत्रकार by व्यवसायिक , और a propagandist by inclination  . ''
Born in Thetford ,  इंग्लैण्ड , in the काउंटी of नॉर्फ़ोक , paine emigrated to the अंग्रेजों  American colonies in 1774 with the help of Benjamin Franklin and he arrived in time to participate in the American Revolution .
His principal contributions were the powerful , widely read pamphlet Common Sense ( 1776 )  , the all-time best-selling अमरीकी किताब कि advocated औपनिवेशिक अमेरिका 's स्वतंत्रता इससे the किंगडम of ग्रेट ब्रिटेन , और  The American Crisis ( 1776–83 ) , a pro-revolutionary pamphlet series .
Common Sense was so influential that John Adams said , `` Without  the कलम of the लेखक of आम भाव , the  sword of Washington would have been raised in vain.”
Paine lived in France  लिये सबसे of the 1790s , बनने  deeply involved in the French Revolution .
He wrote the Rights of Man ( 1791 ) , in part  a रक्षा of the फ्रेंच क्रान्ति  against its critics .
His attacks on British writer Edmund Burke led to  a विचारण और conviction in absentia in 1792 लिये the अपराधों of seditious  libel .
In 1792 , despite not being able to speak French  , he थी निर्वाचित to the फ्रेंच नेशनल  Convention .
The  girondists regarded  him as an ally .
Consequently , the Montagnards , especially  robespierre , regarded  him as an enemy .
In  दिसम्बर 1793 , he थी गिरफ्तार और imprisoned  in Paris , then released in 1794 .
He became notorious because of The Age of Reason (  1793–94 ) , उसके किताब कि अधिवक्ताओं देववाद , promotes कारण और freethinking , और argues  against institutionalized religion in general and Christian doctrine in particular .
he भी लिखा the pamphlet कृषिक इंसाफ ( 1795 ) , discussing the origins  of property , and introduced the concept of a guaranteed minimum income .
In 1802 ,  he लौटे to अमेरिका जहाँ he  died on June 8 , 1809 .
Only six people attended his  अंत्येष्टि as he था महरूम ostracized लिये उसके उपहास  of Christianity .
Clinical trials are sets of tests in medical research and drug development that generate safety and  efficacy आंकड़ा ( or अधिक specifically , सूचना परिचय प्रतिकूल ड्रग प्रतिक्रियाएँ और प्रतिकूल प्रभाव of अन्य उपचार ) लिये स्वास्थ्य interventions ( e.g.  , drugs , diagnostics , devices , therapy protocols ) .
They are conducted only after satisfactory information has been gathered on  the विशेषता of the गैर नैदानिक सुरक्षा , और स्वास्थ्य authority/ethics कमेटी स्वीकृति  is granted in the country where approval of the drug or device is sought .
previously , अनेक उभरते देशों  did not require local trials for product approvals .
Now , though  उभरते देशों स्टिल accept आंकड़ा इससे u.s./europe , वे भी आवश्यकता  some local trials .
Depending on the type of product and the stage of its development , investigators initially enroll volunteers and/or patients into small pilot studies , and  subsequently conduct larger स्केल अध्ययन in मरीजों कि प्रायः compare the नई उत्पाद साथ अन्य already स्वीकृत लिये the affliction of ब्याज  .
As positive safety and efficacy data are  gathered , the क्रमांक of मरीजों  is typically increased .
Clinical  ट्रायल can vary in आकार , और can involve a सिंगल शोध एंटिटी  in one country or many such entities in multiple countries .
A full series of trials may incur sizable costs , and the burden of paying for all the necessary people and services is usually borne by the sponsor ,  जिससे may be a सरकारी संगठन or a फार्मास्युटिकल , जैवप्रौद्योगिकी  or medical device company .
When the diversity of required  support भूमिकाएँ exceeds the संसाधन of the प्रायोजक , a नैदानिक विचारण is प्रबंधित  by an outsourced partner , such as a contract research organization or a clinical trials unit in the academic sector .
The Green Bay Packers are  an अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल टोली आधारित  in Green Bay , Wisconsin .
They are  सदस्यों of the उत्तर प्रभाग of the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल  Conference ( NFC ) in the National Football League ( NFL ) .
ग्रीन खाड़ी is the third-oldest मताधिकार in the एनएफएल , having  been organized and playing in 1919 .
The Packers are the only non-profit ,  community-owned प्रमुख लीग पेशेवर खेल टोली in the  United States .
The Packers are the last vestige of `` small town teams '' that were once common  in the एनएफएल दौरान the 1920s और 1930s  .
Founded in 1919 by Earl `` Curly '' Lambeau ( hence the name Lambeau Field on which the team plays ) and George Whitney  calhoun , the ग्रीन खाड़ी पैकर्स can ट्रेस उनके lineage to अन्य semi-professional टीमों in ग्रीन  Bay dating back to 1896 .
In 1919 and 1920 the Packers competed as a semi-professional football team  विरूद्ध क्लब इससे around विस्कॉन्सिन और the मिडवेस्ट  .
They joined the American Professional Football Association ( APFA )  in 1921 , the forerunner to कया is ज्ञात आज as the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल  League ( NFL ) .
Although Green Bay is  the पिछला एनएफएल `` छोटी कस्बा '' टोली , इसके लोकल प्रशंसक आधार और मीडिया extends  into nearby Milwaukee ; the team also played selected home games there between 1933 and 1994 .
The Green Bay Packers have won 13 league  championships ( अधिक than कोई अन्य टोली in the एनएफएल ) , सहित नौ एनएफएल championships prior to the सुपर कटोरी era और चार सुपर कटोरी victories  —in 1967 ( Super Bowl I ) , 1968 ( Super Bowl II ) , 1997 ( Super Bowl XXXI ) and 2011 ( Super Bowl XLV ) .
The Packers have long-standing , bitter rivalries with their NFC North ( formerly the NFC Central )  प्रतिद्वंद्वियों , the शिकागो bears , मिनेसोटा वाइकिंग्स और the डेट्रॉयट  Lions .
The Bears-Packers rivalry is  एक of the oldest rivalries in एनएफएल इतिहास , डेटिंग वापस  to 1921 .
Ethanol fuel is ethanol (  ethyl दारू ) , the वही प्रकार of दारू  found in alcoholic beverages .
It is most often used as a motor fuel  , मुख्यतः as a biofuel योगात्मक  for gasoline .
World ethanol production for transport  ईंधन tripled between 2000 और 2007 इससे 17  billion to more than 52 billion liters .
From 2007 to  2008 , the share of इथेनॉल in वैश्विक  gasoline type fuel use increased from 3.7 % to 5.4 % .
In 2011 worldwide  इथेनॉल ईंधन उत्पादन पहुँचे 22.36 अरब u.S. द्रव गैलन ( bg ) ( 84.6 अरब liters ) , साथ the संयुक्त राज्य as the शीर्ष निर्माता साथ 13.9  bg ( 52.6 billion liters ) , accounting for 62.2 % of global production , followed by Brazil with 5.6 bg ( 21.1 billion liters ) .
Ethanol fuel has a `` gasoline gallon equivalency ``  ( gge ) मान of , जिससे अर्थात् 1.5 गैलन of इथेनॉल उपज the उर्जा of एक गैलन of  gasoline .
Ethanol fuel is widely used in Brazil and in the United States , and together both countries  यहूद जिम्मेदार लिये 87.1 % of the संसार 's इथेनॉल ईंधन उत्पादन  in 2011 .
Most cars on the road today in the U.S. can run on blends  of up to 10 % इथेनॉल , और इथेनॉल represented 10 % of the u.S. गैसोलीन ईंधन सप्लाई निकला  from domestic sources in 2011 .
Since 1976 the  ब्राज़ीलियाई सरकारी रै बना it अनिवार्य to मिश्रण इथेनॉल साथ गैसोलीन , और चूंकि 2007 the विधिक  blend is around 25 % ethanol and 75 % gasoline ( E25 ) .
By December 2011 Brazil had a fleet of 14.8 million flex-fuel automobiles and light trucks  और 1.5 लाख flex-fuel मोटरसाइकिल कि regularly उपयोग neat इथेनॉल  fuel ( known as E100 ) .
bioethanol is a रूप of बेदर्दी उर्जा  that can be produced from agricultural feedstocks .
It can be made from  बहुत आम फसलों ऐसे as शुगर cane , आलू  , manioc and corn .
There has been considerable debate  परिचय कैसा उपयोगी bioethanol होगा be in replacing गैसोलीन  .
Concerns about its production and use relate to increased food prices due to the large amount of arable land required  लिये फसलों , as खूब as the उर्जा और प्रदूषण संतुलन of the पूरे साईकिल of इथेनॉल उत्पादन , विशेषकर  from corn .
Recent developments with  cellulosic इथेनॉल उत्पादन और व्यावसायीकरण  may allay some of these concerns .
Cellulosic ethanol offers promise because cellulose fibers , a major and universal component  in संयंत्र कोशिकाएं दीवारें , can be प्रयुक्त to उपज इथेनॉल  .
According to the International Energy Agency , cellulosic ethanol could  allow इथेनॉल fuels to खेल a much बडे भूमिका in the भविष्य than previously  thought .
Saab 9-3  sportcombi biopower  .
The second  e85 flexifuel मॉडल introduced  by Saab in the Swedish market .
A plaque  commemorating the स्थान of the साराजेवो हत्या और कदम of  Gavrilo Princip ( image taken in 1987 , before steps were removed in 1992 and plaque changed from Cyrillic to Latin script )
A plaque  commemorating the स्थान of the  Sarajevo assassination ( image taken in 2009 )
On 28 June 1914 , Archduke Franz Ferdinand of  ऑस्ट्रिया , वारिस presumptive to the austro-hungarian सिंहासन , और उसके बीवी , सोफी , duchess of hohenberg , यहूद शॉट मुर्दे  in Sarajevo , by Gavrilo Princip , one of a group of six Bosnian Serb assassins coordinated by Danilo Ilić .
The political objective of the assassination was to break off  austria-hungary 's south-slav प्रांतों so वे  could be combined into a Greater Serbia or a Yugoslavia .
The assassins ' motives were consistent with the movement  कि बाद became ज्ञात  as Young Bosnia .
Serbian  सैन्य अधिकारियों stood पीछे the  attack .
At the top of these Serbian military conspirators  थी मुख्य of सर्बियाई सैन्य प्रज्ञा dragutin dimitrijević , उसके righthand man प्रमुख vojislav tankosić  , and Masterspy Rade Malobabić .
Major Tankosić armed the  हत्यारे साथ बम  and pistols and trained them .
The assassins were given access to the same clandestine tunnel of  safe-houses और एजेंटों कि rade malobabić प्रयुक्त लिये the घुसपैठ of हथियार और operatives into  Austria-Hungary .
The assassins , the  कुंजी सदस्यों of the clandestine टनल , और the कुंजी सर्बियाई सैन्य  conspirators who were still alive were arrested , tried , convicted and punished .
Those who were arrested in Bosnia were  आजमाया in साराजेवो in अक्तूबर  1914 .
The other conspirators were arrested and tried before a Serbian kangaroo court on the French-controlled Salonika  सामने in 1916–1917 on unrelated गलत आरोप ; सर्बिया चलाया तीन of the शीर्ष सैन्य षड्यंत्रकारियों .
Much of what is known about the  assassinations आता इससे ये दो ट्रायल और सम्बन्धित  records .
Assignment of responsibility for the bombing and murders of 28 June is  अत्यधिक विवादास्पद क्युकी the आक्रमण led to the outbreak of संसार युद्ध  I one month later .
Renée Kathleen  zellweger ( born अप्रैल 25 , 1969 ) is  an American actress and producer .
Zellweger first gained widespread attention for her role in the film Jerry Maguire ( 1996 ) , and subsequently received two nominations  लिये the अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन अभिनेत्री लिये उसके भूमिकाएँ as ब्रिजेट जोन्स in the कॉमेडी ब्रिजेट जोन्स 's डायरी ( 2001 ) , और as roxie हार्ट in the musical  Chicago ( 2002 ) .
She won the Academy Award for Best Supporting  अभिनेत्री लिये उसके प्रदर्शन in the नाटक ठंडा पहाड़  ( 2003 ) .
She has won an Academy Award , three Golden Globe Awards , three  स्क्रीन अभिनेताओं गिल्ड पुरस्कार , और a bafta पुरस्कार ; थी नामित hasty खीर 's स्त्री of the साल in 2009 ; और  established herself as one of the highest-paid Hollywood actresses as of 2007 .
The ossicles ( also called auditory ossicles )  हैं the तीन smallest हड्डियों in the इंसान देह , the malleus , the incus और the stapes  .
वे हैं contained भीतर the मध्य कान स्पेस और serve  to transmit sounds from the air to the fluid-filled labyrinth ( cochlea ) .
The absence  of the auditory ossicles होता  constitute a moderate-to-severe hearing loss .
The  पद `` ossicles '' वस्तुतः अर्थात् `` छोटा हड्डियों '' और commonly  refers to the auditory ossicles , though the term may refer to any small bone throughout the body .
The New Covenant ( Hebrew • • —  यूनानी • • diatheke kaine ) is a biblical निर्वचन  originally derived from a phrase in the Book of Jeremiah , in the Hebrew Scriptures .
It is often thought of as an eschatological  मुक्तिदाता आयु or संसार to आइये और is सम्बन्धित to the  biblical concept of the Kingdom of God .
Generally , Christians believe that the New Covenant was instituted at the Last  भोजन as भाग of the eucharist , जिससे in the इन्जील of जॉन शामिल  the New Commandment .
There are several Christian eschatologies that further define the New Covenant , as an example an inaugurated eschatology defines and describes the New Covenant as an ongoing  संबंध between ईसाई ईमानवालों और परमेश्वर कि होगा be in पूरा फलीभूत बाद the दूसरी coming of मसीह ; कि is , it होगा  not only be in full fruition in believing hearts , but in the future external world as well .
The connection between the Blood of  मसीह और the नई वचन is देखी in सबसे आधुनिक अंग्रेज़ी अनुवाद  of the New Testament with the saying : `` this cup that is poured out for you is the new covenant in my blood '' .
Christians  मानना कि यीशु is the मध्यस्थ of the नई वचन , और कि the रक्त  of Christ shed at his crucifixion is the required blood of the covenant .
As with all covenants between God and  man वर्णित in the बाइबल , the नई वचन is माना `` a बंध in रक्त sovereignly  administered by God . ''
It has been theorized that the New  वचन is the विधि of मसीह as बोला दौरान उसके उपदेश  on the Mount .
The following List of people  pardoned or granted दया by the अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य  documents the most prominent cases of each presidency .
As granted by the Constitution ( Article II , Section 2 , Clause 1 ) , Presidents  have the शक्ति to ग्रान्ट दया in एक or अधिक of the following तरीके : the क्षमता to ग्रान्ट a पूरा pardon  , to commute a sentence , or to rescind a fine .
U.S. Presidents have  no शक्ति to ग्रान्ट दया  for crimes prosecuted under state law .
As to the  अंतर between a  pardon and a commutation:
A pardon is an  कार्यपालिका अनुक्रम vacating a conviction  .
A commutation is the mitigation of the sentence of someone currently serving a sentence  लिये a अपराधों pursuant to a conviction , बगैर vacating  the conviction itself .
Approximately 20,000 pardons and  clemencies यहूद जारी by u.S. राष्ट्रपतियों in  the 20th century alone .
The records of acts of clemency  यहूद पब्लिक जबतक 1934  .
In 1981 the  दफ्तर of the pardon attorney थी निर्मित और रिकॉर्ड इससे अध्यक्ष  H. W. Bush forward are now listed .
इस सूची शामिल  pardons and commutations .
Tampa (  ) is a नगर in  the U.S. state of Florida .
It serves as the county seat for Hillsborough County and is located on the  वेस्ट coast of फ्लोरिडा , on tampa खाड़ी निकट the  Gulf of Mexico .
The population  of tampa in 2011  was 346,037 .
The current  स्थान of tampa थी एकबार inhabited by स्वदेशी peoples of the सुरक्षा हार्बर  culture , most notably the Tocobaga and the Pohoy , who lived along the shores of Tampa Bay .
It was briefly explored by Spanish explorers in  the जल्दी 16th सदी , लकिन वहीँ यहूद no स्थाई अमरीकी or यूरोपीय settlements भीतर आज  's city limits until after the United States had acquired Florida from Spain in 1819 .
In 1824 , the United States Army established a frontier outpost  पुकारा फोर्ट ब्रुक at the मुँह  of the Hillsborough River , near the site of today 's Tampa Convention Center .
The first civilian  निवासियों यहूद pioneers जो settled निकट the फोर्ट लिये सुरक्षा इससे the  nearby Seminole population .
The town grew slowly until the 1880s  , जब रेलरोड कड़ी , the डिस्कवरी of फास्फेट , और the आगमन of the सिगार उद्योग jump-started tampa 's विकास  and helped it to grow into an important city by the early 1900s .
Today ,  tampa is a भाग of the महानगर क्षेत्रफल सबसे  commonly referred to as the Tampa Bay Area .
For U.S. Census purposes , Tampa is part of the Tampa-St.  petersburg-clearwater , फ्लोरिडा महानगर सांख्यिकीय  Area .
The four-county area is composed of roughly 2.7 million residents , making it the second largest  महानगर सांख्यिकीय क्षेत्रफल ( एमएसए ) in the राज्य , और the चौथी largest in the southeastern संयुक्त राज्य , पीछे  Miami , Washington , D.C. , and Atlanta .
The Greater Tampa Bay area has just over  4 लाख निवासियों और generally शामिल the  Tampa and Sarasota metro areas .
The Tampa Bay Partnership and U.S. Census data showed an average annual growth of 2.47 percent ,  or a लाभ of लगभग 97,000 निवासियों प्रति साल .
Between 2000 and 2006 , the Greater Tampa Bay Market experienced a  संयुक्त विकास रेट of 14.8 प्रतिशत , growing इससे 3.4 लाख to 3.9 लाख और  hitting the 4 million people mark on April 1 , 2007 .
A  2012 अनुमान shows the tampa खाड़ी क्षेत्रफल जनसांख्यिकी to have  4,310,524 people and a 2017 projection of 4,536,854 people .
Tampa has a  क्रमांक of खेल टीमों , ऐसे as the tampa खाड़ी buccaneers of the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग , the  Tampa Bay Lightning of the National Hockey League , and the Tampa Bay Storm of the Arena Football League .
The Tampa Bay Rays in Major League  बेसबॉल और the tampa खाड़ी rowdies of the उत्तर अमरीकी सॉकर लीग खेल उनके  home games in neighboring St. Petersburg , Florida .
In  2008 , tampa थी क्रमित  as the 5th best outdoor city by Forbes .
A 2004 survey by the NYU newspaper Washington Square  न्यूज क्रमित tampa as a शीर्ष नगर लिये `` twenty-somethings . ''
Tampa is now ranked as a ``  गामा '' संसार नगर by loughborough  University .
According to  loughborough , tampa बाँधने alongside अन्य संसार  cities such as Phoenix , Santo Domingo , and Osaka .
In recent years Tampa has seen a notable upsurge in  high-market माँग इससे उपभोक्ता , signaling अधिक माल concentrated  in the area .
Tampa hosted the 2012 Republican  नेशनल सम्मेलन  .
The Chevrolet Cavalier was a compact  ऑटोमोबाइल उत्पादित इससे 1982 to  2005 by General Motors .
Built on the company 's  j मंच , the cavalier उत्पादित the उच्चतम  sales in 1984 .
AT & T Mobility LLC branded and  referred to as at & t ( formerly cingular बेतार llc ) , is a wholly स्वामित्व subsidiary of at & t inc. कि provides बेतार सेवाएं to 107 लाख सदस्य  in the United States , including Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands .
AT & T Mobility is the second largest wireless telecommunications  प्रदाता in the संयुक्त राज्य और प्यूर्टो रीको , पीछे verizon  Wireless , which serves 115.78 million customers as of the fourth quarter of 2012 .
AT & T Mobility is  headquartered in the lenox पार्क क्षेत्रफल of dekalb co.  Georgia , just outside Atlanta .
Originally Cingular Wireless LLC from 2000 to 2007 , a joint venture between SBC Communications and BellSouth , the company acquired the old AT &  t बेतार in 2004 ; sbc बाद acquired the असली at & t  and re-branded as `` AT & T '' .
cingular became wholly स्वामित्व by at & t in  December 2006 as a result of AT & T 's acquisition of BellSouth .
In January 2007 , Cingular confirmed it would re-brand  itself अंतर्गत the at & t नाम .
Although the legal corporate name change  occurred तत्काल , लिये दोनो नियामक और brand-awareness कारण दोनो ब्रांड्स यहूद प्रयुक्त in the कम्पनी 's साइनेज  and advertising during a transition period .
The  परिवर्तन concluded in लेट जून  , just prior to the rollout of the Apple iPhone .
On March  20 , 2011 , at & t गतिशीलता घोषित  its intention to acquire T-Mobile USA from Deutsche Telekom for $ 39 billion .
If it had  प्राप्त सरकारी और नियामक स्वीकृति , at & t  would have had more than 130 million subscribers .
However , the U.S. Department of Justice , the Federal  संचार आयोग , और at & t गतिशीलता 's प्रतिस्पर्धी ( ऐसे as स्प्रिंट nextel ) opposed  the move on the grounds that it would reduce competition in the cellular communications market .
In December 2011 , in the face of both  सरकारी और फैली उपभोक्ता विपक्ष , at & t withdrew उनके प्रस्ताव  to complete the merger .
Martin Luther  किंग , jr. ( जनवरी 15 , 1929 – अप्रैल 4 , 1968 ) थी  an American clergyman , activist , and leader in the African-American Civil Rights Movement .
He is best known for his role in  the उन्नति of सिविल अधिकारों using  nonviolent civil disobedience .
King has  become a नेशनल प्रतीक  in the history of American progressivism .
A Baptist minister , King  became a सिविल अधिकारों activist जल्दी in उसके करियर  .
He led the 1955 Montgomery Bus  बहिष्कार और helped मिला the दक्षिणी ईसाई  Leadership Conference ( SCLC ) in 1957 , serving as its first president .
With the SCLC , King led  an unsuccessful संघर्ष विरूद्ध पृथक्करण in albany , जॉर्जिया , in 1962 , और व्यवस्थित nonviolent विरोध in बर्मिंघम , अलबामा , कि आकर्षित नेशनल  attention following television news coverage of the brutal police response .
King also helped to  व्यवस्थित the 1963 कूच on वॉशिंगटन , जहाँ he वितरित  his `` I Have a Dream `` speech .
There , he established his reputation as one of  the महानतम orators in अमरीकी  history .
He also established his reputation  as a कट्टरपंथी , और became an ऑब्जेक्ट of the संघीय ब्यूरो of छानबीन 's cointelpro लिये  the rest of his life .
FBI agents investigated him  लिये संभावित कम्युनिस्ट ties , अंकित उसके extramarital liaisons और reported  on them to government officials , and on one occasion , mailed King a threatening anonymous letter that he interpreted as an attempt to make him commit suicide .
On October  14 , 1964 , किंग प्राप्त the नोबेल सलाम पुरस्कार लिये  combating racial inequality through nonviolence .
In 1965 , he and the SCLC helped to organize the Selma to Montgomery marches and the following year  , he took the गति उत्तर to शिकागो  .
In the final years of his life , King expanded  उसके फ़ोकस to शामिल गरीबी और the वियतनाम युद्ध , alienating  many of his liberal allies with a 1967 speech titled `` Beyond Vietnam '' .
King was planning a  नेशनल occupation of वॉशिंगटन , d.C. , पुकारा the  Poor People 's Campaign .
King was assassinated  on अप्रैल 4 , 1968 , in  Memphis , Tennessee .
His death was followed by riots  in अनेक u.S. शहरों  .
Allegations that James  अर्ल रे , the man convicted of हत्या किंग , था महरूम framed or acted in कॉन्सर्ट साथ सरकारी एजेंटों persisted  for decades after the shooting , and the jury of a 1999 civil trial found Loyd Jowers to be complicit in a conspiracy against King .
King was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom and the  congressional सुनहरा पदक  posthumously .
Martin Luther King , Jr.  दिन थी स्थापित as a u.S. संघीय  holiday in 1986 .
Hundreds of streets in the U.S. have been  renamed in उसके सम्मान .
A memorial statue on the  नेशनल मॉल थी खोली  to the public in 2011 .
the बाघ ( पेंथेरा tigris ) is the largest  cat species , reaching a total body length of up to and weighing up to .
It is the third  largest जमीन carnivore ( पीछे तभी the ध्रुवीय भालू  and the brown bear ) .
Its most recognizable  विशेषता is a पैटर्न of अंधेरा लंबवत धारियाँ on reddish-orange  fur with a lighter underside .
It has exceptionally  stout दांत , और the canines हैं the longest among  living felids with a crown height of as much as or even .
In zoos , tigers have lived for 20  to 26 सालो , जिससे भी seems to be उनके आयु in  the wild .
They are territorial and generally solitary but social animals  , प्रायः requiring विशाल संलग्न क्षेत्रों of आवास कि support  their prey requirements .
This , coupled with the fact that  वे हैं स्वदेशी to कुछ of the अधिक densely आबादी  places on Earth , has caused significant conflicts with humans .
Tigers  एकबार ranged widely आरपार एशिया , इससे तुर्कों in the वेस्ट  to the eastern coast of Russia .
over the पास्ट 100 सालो , वे have खोया 93 % of उनके ऐतिहासिक दायरा , और have महरूम extirpated इससे  southwest and central Asia , from the islands of Java and Bali , and from large areas of Southeast and Eastern Asia .
Today , they range from the Siberian  ताइगा to खोलें grasslands  and tropical mangrove swamps .
The remaining  छह बाघ subspecies have महरूम वर्गीकृत  as endangered by IUCN .
The global  जनसांख्यिकी in the जंगली is अनुमानित to क्रमांक between 3,062 और 3,948 individuals , bas इससे around 100,000  at the start of the 20th century , with most remaining populations occurring in small pockets isolated from each other .
Major reasons for population  मनाही शामिल आवास विनाश , आवास fragmentation  and poaching .
The extent of area occupied by tigers is estimated at  कम than , a 41 % मनाही इससे the क्षेत्रफल अनुमानित  in the mid-1990s .
Tigers are among the most  recognisable और लोकप्रिय of the संसार 's charismatic  megafauna .
They have featured prominently in ancient mythology and folklore ,  और continue to be चित्रित in आधुनिक films और साहित्य  .
Tigers appear on many flags , coats of  बाहें , और as mascots लिये sporting  teams .
The Bengal tiger is the national animal  of दोनो इण्डिया और बांग्लादेश  .
The simplified  आतंरिक ढांचा of a हरितलवक
Overview of the  calvin साईकिल और कार्बन  fixation
The light-independent reactions of photosynthesis are chemical reactions that  बदलें कार्बन डाइऑक्साइड  and other compounds into glucose .
These reactions occur in the  stroma , the fluid-filled क्षेत्रफल of a हरितलवक बाहर of the thylakoid  membranes .
These  प्रतिक्रियाएँ लो the light-dependent प्रतिक्रियाएँ और perform further रासायनिक  processes on them .
There are three  phases to the light-independent प्रतिक्रियाएँ , collectively पुकारा  the Calvin cycle : carbon fixation , reduction reactions , and ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate ( RuBP ) regeneration .
Despite  इसके नाम , इस प्रक्रम occurs तभी  when light is available .
Plants do not  carry आउट the calvin  cycle by night .
They , instead  , रिलीज sucrose into the फ्लोएम  from their starch reserves .
This process happens when light is available independent of the kind of photosynthesis ( C3 carbon fixation , C4 carbon fixation , and Crassulacean Acid Metabolism ) ;  कैम पौधे स्टोर malic एसिड in उनके vacuoles प्रत्येक रात्रि और रिलीज it by दिन in अनुक्रम to मेक इस प्रक्रम  work .
A linen handkerchief  साथ खींचा लड़ी कढ़ाई around  the edges
Linen  cloth बरामद इससे qumran गुफा  1 near the Dead Sea .
Linen ( ) is a textile  बना इससे the मछली of the flax संयंत्र , linum usitatissimum  .
Linen is labor-intensive to manufacture  , लकिन जब it is बना into garments , it is valued लिये इसके  exceptional coolness and freshness in hot weather .
The word `` linen '' is of West Germanic  उत्पत्ति और cognates साथ the लैटिन नाम लिये the flax संयंत्र linum , और the  earlier Greek λινόν ( linon ) .
This word history has given rise to a number of other terms in English  , the सबसे notable of जिससे is the अंग्रेज़ी शब्द लकीर , निकला इससे the उपयोग of  a linen ( flax ) thread to determine a straight line .
Textiles in a linen weave texture , even  जब बना of कपास , गांजा और अन्य non-flax  fibers are also loosely referred to as `` linen '' .
Such fabrics generally  have उनके अपना विशिष्ट names अन्य than लिनेन ; लिये उदाहरण , ठीक कपास धागे in a linen-style  weave is called Madapolam .
The collective term `` linens `` is still often used  generically to describe a क्लास of woven और भी knitted bed , नहाना , तालिका  and kitchen textiles .
the नाम linens is retained क्युकी traditionally  , linen was used for many of these items .
In the past , the word `` linens '' was also used to mean lightweight undergarments  ऐसे as शर्ट , chemises , waistshirts , lingerie ( a शब्द भी cognate साथ लिनेन ) , और detachable कमीज़ छल्लों और cuffs , जिससे यहूद  historically made almost exclusively out of linen .
the अंदर cloth परत of ठीक कम्पोजिट कपडे garments (  as for example jackets ) was traditionally made of linen , and this is the origin of the word lining .
Linen textiles appear to be some  of the oldest in the संसार : उनके इतिहास goes वापस  many thousands of years .
Fragments of  स्ट्रॉ , बीज , मछली , yarns , और विभिन्न प्रकार of fabrics जिससे तिथि वापस to परिचय 8000  BC have been found in Swiss lake dwellings .
dyed flax मछली मिला in a प्रागैतिहासिक गुफा in जॉर्जिया सुझाएँ the उपयोग of  woven linen fabrics from wild flax may date back even earlier to 36,000 BP .
Linen was sometimes  प्रयुक्त as करेंसी in प्राचीन  Egypt .
Egyptian mummies were  लपेटा in लिनेन क्युकी it थी देखी  as a symbol of light and purity , and as a display of wealth .
Some of these fabrics , woven from hand spun yarns ,  यहूद बहुत ठीक लिये उनके दिन , लकिन हैं coarse compared  to modern linen .
Today , linen  is प्रायः an महंगी वस्त्र  , and is produced in relatively small quantities .
It has a long `` staple '' (  व्यक्तिगत रेशा लंबाई ) सापेक्ष  to cotton and other natural fibers .
Many products are made of linen : aprons , bags , towels ( swimmers , bath , beach , body and wash towels ) ,  napkins , bed linens , लिनेन चौके , धावक , कुर्सी कवर  , and men 's & women 's wear .
The FIFA World Cup , often simply the World Cup , is an international association football competition contested by the senior men 's  नेशनल टीमों of the सदस्यों of fédération  Internationale de Football Association ( FIFA ) , the sport 's global governing body .
The championship has  महरूम awarded प्रत्येक चार सालो चूंकि the inaugural टूर्नामेंट  in 1930 , except in 1942 and 1946 when it was not held because of the Second World War .
The current champions are Spain , who  जीती the 2010 टूर्नामेंट  .
The current format of the tournament involves 32 teams competing for the title at venues  भीतर the मेजबान स्वदेश ( s ) over a काल of परिचय a माह ; इस  phase is often called the World Cup Finals .
A qualification  phase , जिससे फिलहाल takes प्लेस over the  preceding three years , is used to determine which teams qualify for the tournament together with the host nation ( s ) .
The 19 World Cup tournaments have been  जीती by आठ अलग नेशनल टीमों  .
Brazil have won five  टाइम्स , और वे हैं the तभी टोली to have निभाई in  every tournament .
The other World Cup winners are Italy , with four titles ; Germany ,  साथ तीन शीर्षक ; अर्जेंटीना और inaugural विजेता उरुग्वे , साथ दो शीर्षक प्रत्येक ; और इंग्लैण्ड  , France , and Spain , with one title each .
The World Cup is the world 's most widely viewed sporting event ; an estimated 715.1  लाख लोगों देखी the फाइनल मैच of the 2006 फीफा  World Cup held in Germany .
The next three  संसार cups होगा be hosted by ब्राज़ील in 2014 , रूस in  2018 , and Qatar in 2022 .
The is an expansion  यंत्र लिये the वी रिमोट वीडियो खेल नियंत्रक लिये the वी कि  allows it to more accurately capture complex motion .
According to Nintendo , the sensor in the device  पूरक the accelerometer और सेंसर बार सामर्थ्य of the वी रिमोट to enable क्रियाएँ to be rendered  identically on the screen in real time .
the वी 's successor कंसोल , the वी u , supports the वी motionplus और  its peripherals in games where use of its touchscreen-built-in primary controller is not necessary .
Majulah  singapura ( onward सिंगापुर ) is the नेशनल  anthem of Singapore .
Composed by Zubir Said in 1958 as a theme song for official functions of the City Council of Singapore , the song was  चयनित in 1959 as the द्वीप 's गान जब it attained self-government  .
Upon full independence in 1965 , Majulah  singapura थी formally अपनाया as सिंगापुर 's नेशनल  anthem .
By law the  गान may तभी be सुंग साथ इसके असली मलय गीत , हालांकि वहीँ मौजूद प्राधिकृत अनुवाद of the गीत  of the anthem in Singapore 's three other official languages : English , Mandarin and Tamil .
Originally composed in the key of G  प्रमुख , in 2001 the नेशनल गान थी officially relaunched in the निम्नतर कुंजी of f प्रमुख as इस थी कहा to allow  for a `` grander and more inspiring arrangement '' .
The national anthem is regularly performed or sung in schools and armed forces camps at ceremonies held at the beginning and/or  the समाप्त of प्रत्येक दिन , दौरान जिससे the नेशनल ध्वज is भी उठाया और  lowered and the national pledge is taken .
Singaporeans are especially encouraged to sing the national anthem on occasions of national  जश्न or नेशनल significance ऐसे as at the नेशनल दिन परेड , at नेशनल दिन observance ceremonies  conducted by educational institutions and government departments , and at sporting events at which Singapore teams are participating .
An  expedition 's shipwrights भवन  a brigantine , 1541 .
Shipbuilding is  the निर्माण of जहाजों और  floating vessels .
It normally  takes प्लेस in a specialized सुविधा ज्ञात  as a shipyard .
Shipbuilders , also called shipwrights ,  follow a specialized occupation कि traces इसके  roots to before recorded history .
Shipbuilding and ship repairs , both  वाणिज्यिक और सैन्य , हैं  referred to as `` naval engineering '' .
the निर्माण of नौकाएँ  is a similar activity called boat building .
The  dismantling of जहाजों is पुकारा जलयान  breaking .
Wakonda is a  कस्बा in मिट्टी काउंटी , दक्षिण  Dakota , United States .
The population  थी 321 at the 2010  census .
The following is a list of  the सबसे populous incorporated  places of the United States of America .
As defined by the United States Census Bureau , an `` incorporated place `` includes a  किस्में of designations , सहित नगर , कस्बा , गाँव , बरो , और नगरपालिका  .
A few exceptional Census Designated Places (  cdps ) हैं भी शामिल in the जनसांख्यिकी ब्यूरो 's लिस्टिंग of incorporated  places .
Consolidated  city-counties represent a पृथक  type of government that includes the entire population of a county , or county equivalent .
Some  संचित city-counties , however , शामिल अनेक  incorporated places .
This list presents  तभी कि portion ( or `` संतुलन '' ) of ऐसे संचित  city-counties that are not a part of another incorporated place .
Note that this list refers only to the population of individual  municipalities भीतर उनके पारिभाषित हद , जिससे करता नहीं शामिल अन्य municipalities  or unincorporated suburban areas within urban agglomerations .
A different ranking is evident  जब considering u.S. महानगर क्षेत्रफल populations  .
alt=larger flashcart , दिखाया साथ  small card and U.S. quarter for size
Nintendo DS storage devices are devices used to store a licensed developer 's work-in-progress  बिंब , homebrew वीडियो खेल और डाउनलोड वाणिज्यिक  games ( since the Nintendo DS is not sold with a rewritable storage medium ) .
Licensed developers , however , can use a blue  बुद्धिमान प्रणालियों नाइट्रो emulator बक्सा  to flash cards .
These devices are  भी ज्ञात as `` flashcarts ''  or `` flashcards '' .
There are two main classes of  flashcarts : पुरानी डिवाइस जिससे अनुरूप in slot-2 ( the खेल लड़के अग्रिम खेल पाक स्लॉट  ) and newer devices that fit in Slot-1 ( the DS Game Card slot ) .
slot-2 ( or first-generation ) डिवाइस have महरूम historically सस्ता due to economies of स्केल ( inherited  from their use with Game Boy Advance ) , but require a booting tool in Slot-1 in order to use the touch screen and other DS features .
second-generation डिवाइस ( those जिससे तभी उपयोग slot-1 ) do नहीं कार्य साथ  GBA homebrew , but became less expensive and easier to use , rivaling many Slot-2 devices in price .
first-generation डिवाइस शामिल gba फ्लैश कारतूस  , GBAMP CF , SuperCard , and M3 .
second-generation डिवाइस शामिल r4 क्रान्ति  , CycloDS , G6 Real and DS-X .
The storage device  either contains फ्लैश मेमोरी or a स्लॉट लिये  a memory card to store homebrew .
Storage devices with a  memory-card स्लॉट प्रायः have अधिक भंडार  capacity than flash-memory devices .
Although flash-memory capacity is usually measured in megabits ( Mb ) , memory-card  क्षमता is प्रायः measured in मेगाबाइट ( mb ) ( जहाँ 8  Mb is 1 MB ) .
Storage-device brands differ in their support for homebrew ; DS and Game Boy  अग्रिम roms ; खास सुविधाएँ ( ऐसे as क्षमता to खेल मीडिया फाइलें ) ; शारीरिक आकार  and cost .
Strictly speaking , a storage device  is नहीं जरुरी लिये ds साथ flashme संस्थापित क्युकी  homebrew can be sent to the DS using WMB .
However ,  इस is नहीं an easily-portable विधि क्युकी the ds needs  to be within range of a suitable Wi-Fi card .
हैं अमरीकी लोगों of जापानी  heritage .
Japanese  अमेरिकी have historically महरूम among the तीन largest एशियाई अमरीकी समुदायों , लकिन in हाल दशकों , it रै  become the sixth largest group at roughly 1,304,286 , including those of mixed-race or mixed-ethnicity .
In the 2010 census , the largest Japanese American  समुदायों यहूद मिला in कैलिफ़ोर्निया साथ 272,528 , हवाई साथ 185,502 , नई यॉर्क साथ 37,780 ,  Washington with 35,008 , and Illinois with 17,542 .
Southern California has the largest  japanese-american जनसांख्यिकी  in North America .
200px
This is a comprehensive  लिस्टिंग जिससे हाइलाइट significant उपलब्धियाँ और माइलस्टोन आधारित upon बिलबोर्ड  magazine 's singles charts , most notably the Billboard Hot 100 .
This list spans  इससे the समस्या दिनाँक जनवरी  1 , 1955 to present .
The Billboard Hot 100 began with the issue dated August 4 , 1958 , and is currently the  मानक लोकप्रिय म्यूज़िक चार्ट in the संयुक्त  States .
Prior to the creation of the Hot 100 , Billboard published  चार singles चार्ट : `` बेहतरीन विक्रेता in स्टोर्स '' , `` सबसे निभाई by jockeys '' , `` सबसे  Played in Jukeboxes '' and `` The Top 100 '' .
These charts , which  ranged इससे 20 to 100 स्लॉट , यहूद phased  out at different times between 1957 and 1958 .
Though technically not part of the Hot 100 chart history , their data is included for computational purposes , and to avoid  unenlightening or भ्रामक  characterizations .
All items listed below are  इससे the hot 100 era , जबतक वरना  noted ( pre-Hot 100 charts ) .
V is an American science fiction television  श्रेणी कि भागा लिये दो सीज़न on एबीसी , इससे नवम्बर 3 , 2009 to  March 15 , 2011 .
A  रीमेक of the 1983 miniseries निर्मित by केनेथ जॉनसन , the नई श्रेणी क्रॉनिकल्स the आगमन on धरती of a technologically  advanced alien species which ostensibly comes in peace , but actually has sinister motives .
V stars Morena Baccarin , Lourdes Benedicto ,  मॉरिस शाहबलूत , जोएल gretsch , लोगन huffman , चार्ल्स mesure , एलिज़ाबेथ मिशेल , लौरा vandervoort और स्कॉट भेड़िया , और थी कार्यपालिका उत्पादित  by Scott Rosenbaum , Yves Simoneau , Scott Peters , and Jace Hall .
The series was produced by The Scott  पीटर्स कम्पनी , hdfilms और warner भाईs. टेलीविज़न  .
Geocaching is an outdoor recreational activity , in which the participants use a Global Positioning System ( GPS ) receiver or  मोबाईल यंत्र और अन्य navigational तकनीकों to छुपा और तलाश containers , पुकारा `` geocaches '' or `` caches '' , anywhere  in the world .
A typical cache is a small waterproof container containing a logbook where the  geocacher enters the तिथि वे मिला it और लक्षण it साथ उनके स्थापित  code name .
बाद हस्ताक्षर into the log , the संचय  must be placed back exactly where the person found it .
Larger containers such as plastic storage containers ( Tupperware or similar ) or ammunition boxes can also contain  वस्तुएं लिये व्यापार , प्रायः खिलौने or trinkets of छोटी मान  .
Geocaching shares many aspects with benchmarking , trigpointing ,  orienteering , treasure-hunting , letterboxing , और  waymarking .
Boogie Down Productions was a hip hop group  कि थी originally रचित of krs-one  , D-Nice , and DJ Scott La Rock .
DJ Scott La Rock was murdered on  अगस्त 27 , 1987 , महीने बाद the रिलीज of bdp 's डेब्यू एल्बम  , Criminal Minded .
The name of the group , Boogie Down ,  गर्भाशयी इससे a उपनाम लिये the दक्षिण bronx खण्ड of the bronx , एक  of the five boroughs of New York City .
The  समूह pioneered the संलयन of डांसहॉल रेगी और हिप हॉप म्यूज़िक और उनके डेब्यू lp दण्ड minded contained  frank descriptions of life in the South Bronx of the late 1980s thus setting the stage for what would eventually become gangsta rap .
A municipal bond is a bond issued by a local  सरकारी , or उनके एजेंसियों  .
Potential issuers of municipal bonds include states , cities , counties , redevelopment agencies ,  special-purpose जिले , स्कूल जिले , पब्लिक यूटिलिटी जिले , सरेआम स्वामित्व एयरपोर्ट  and seaports , and any other governmental entity ( or group of governments ) at or below the state level .
Municipal bonds  may be सामान्य दायित्वों of the जारीकर्ता or secured  by specified revenues .
In the United States , interest income received by  धारकों of नगरपालिका bonds is प्रायः exempt इससे the संघीय आय कर और इससे the आय कर of the राज्य in जिससे वे हैं  issued , although municipal bonds issued for certain purposes may not be tax exempt .
Unlike new issue stocks that are brought to market with price restrictions until the deal  is बेची , नगरपालिका bonds हैं फ़्री to व्यापार at कोई समय एकबार वे हैं खरीदा by the  investor .
पेशेवर व्यापारियों regularly व्यापार और retrade  the same bonds several times a week .
`` Gim me Some Lovin ' '' is a song written by Steve Winwood ,  स्पेंसर डेविस और muff winwood , और originally performed by the स्पेंसर डेविस समूह  .
the मौलिक रिफ of the सोंग थी उधार इससे the होमर बैंको सोंग  `` ( Ai n't That ) A Lot of Love '' , written by Banks and Willie Dean `` Deanie '' Parker .
`` Gim me Some  lovin ' '' थी a uk # 2 in the पतझड़  of 1966 and a US # 7 .
The song is ranked # 247 on  the रोलिंग स्टोन पत्रिका 's सूची of the  500 Greatest Songs of All Time .
The version issued in the UK ( and probably most of Europe ) is different from that issued  in the us on the संयुक्त कलाकारों लेबल , होने धीमा , और lacking the बैकिंग vocals और `` सजीव  sounding '' performance found on the US single .
( The US  संस्करण रै अधिक प्रायः महरूम प्रयुक्त on reissue  CDs , even those coming from Europe . )
The  सिंगल सुविधाएँ the ध्वनि  of the Hammond B-3 organ .
The Internet Movie Database ( IMDb ) is an online database of information related  to films , टेलीविज़न कार्यक्रम , और वीडियो खेल  .
This includes actors ,  उत्पादन क्रू कर्मियों , और  fictional characters featured in these three visual entertainment media .
It is one of the most popular online entertainment destinations , with over  100 लाख अद्वितीय उपयोक्ता प्रत्येक माह और a ठोस और rapidly growing मोबाईल उपस्थिति  .
IMDb was launched on October 17 , 1990  , और in 1998 थी acquired by  Amazon.com .
As of  अप्रैल 27 , 2013 , आईएमडीबी था 2,503,783 शीर्षक ( शामिल  episodes ) and 5,192,493 personalities in its database , as well as 43 million registered users .
The  जालस्थल रै an एलेक्सा रैंक  of 48 .
Fibre Channel  मेजबान बस एडाप्टर ( 64-bit pci-x  card )
scsi मेजबान बस एडाप्टर  ( 16-bit ISA card )
In computer hardware , a host  नियंत्रक , मेजबान एडाप्टर , or मेजबान बस एडाप्टर ( hba ) connects a मेजबान प्रणाली  ( the computer ) to other network and storage devices .
The  शर्तें हैं primarily प्रयुक्त to refer  to devices for connecting SCSI , Fibre Channel and eSATA devices .
However , devices  लिये connecting to आईडीई , ईथरनेट , firewire  , USB and other systems may also be called host adapters .
Recently , the advent of iSCSI and Fibre Channel over Ethernet has brought about Ethernet HBAs ,  जिससे हैं अलग इससे ईथरनेट nics in कि वे शामिल टीसीपी offload इंजन .
There are also converged HBAs that support both Ethernet and  fibre चैनल पुकारा converged संजाल adapters  ( CNAs ) .
cashmere  Scarves
Modern  मेन 's cashmere sweaters  for sale .
cashmere ऊन , प्रायः बस ज्ञात as cashmere , is a रेशा  obtained from Cashmere goats and other types of goat .
The word  cashmere गर्भाशयी इससे an बूढ़ा स्पेलिंग  of Kashmir .
Cashmere  is ठीक in बनावट , दमदार  , light , and soft .
Garments made from it  provide बेहतरीन इन्सुलेशन  .
In  the संयुक्त राज्य , अंतर्गत the u.s . ऊन उत्पाद labeling अधिनियम of 1939 , as amended , ( 15 uction 68b ( a ) (  6 ) ) , states that a wool or textile product may not be labeled as containing cashmere unless:
such wool  उत्पाद is the ठीक ( dehaired ) undercoat  fibers produced by a cashmere goat ( Capra hircus laniger ) ;
the average diameter of the fiber of such wool product  करता नहीं exceed 19  microns ; and
such wool product does not contain more than 3 percent ( by weight ) of cashmere  मछली साथ औसत diameters कि exceed 30 माइक्रोन  .
The average fiber diameter may be  विषय to a गुणांक of विभिन्नता around the औसत कि shall नहीं exceed  24 percent .
Jennifer Convertibles Inc. is the  मालिक और licensor of sofabed और चमड़े specialty खुदरा स्टोर्स in the संयुक्त राज्य , साथ स्टोर्स स्तिथ  throughout the Eastern seaboard , in the Midwest , on the West Coast and in the Southwest .
The company was founded in 1975  और is आधारित in woodbury , नई  York .
On July 19 , 2010 , the company announced that it  था दायर लिये दिवालियापन as a consequence of `` substantial  losses '' .
According to Furniture Today the  कम्पनी थी क्रमांक 48 among फर्नीचर रिटेलर साथ  US $ 114 million in sales for the year ending August 29 , 2009 .
It subsequently emerged from Chapter 11 under the  कंट्रोल of इसके प्रमुख प्रदायक , the haining mengnu  Group .
अंडा फेंकें is a पद प्रयुक्त  for many different foods around the world .
2__egg_roll __ किस्में of अंडा रोल्स हैं मिला in मेनलैंड चीन , अनेक chinese-speaking  regions of Asia , and Chinese immigrant communities around the world .
Egg  रोल्स as referred  to in China .
In Guangdong and Hong  काँग , अंडा फेंकें प्रायः refers  to biscuit roll .
This is a  प्रकार of  biscuit .
The  संघटक शामिल  egg , flour and sugar .
Egg roll also is a  डिश in कैण्टन और हांग काँग , इस is प्रायः  made with vegetable .
Within China egg  रोल्स हैं खाया predominantly in the southeast और हैं  not as commonly consumed in the north and western parts of China .
In American Chinese  भोजन , an अंडा फेंकें is a savory डिश typically परोसा as  an appetizer .
It is usually stuffed with chicken , pork or shrimp , cabbage , carrots ,  टमाटर , सेम sprouts और अन्य सब्जियां , और तब गहन fried  .
This variety of the egg roll is very  आम और लोकप्रिय , आरपार भी क्षेत्रीय किस्में of अमरीकी चाइनीज खाना , और is प्रायः शामिल as भाग of a `` संयोजन  platter '' .
In  मॉन्ट्रियल , कनाडा , open-ended eggrolls  are a Jewish-Chinese fusion dish .
वे can be either  kosher certified or merely kosher style .
Pain and suffering is the legal term  लिये the शारीरिक और emotional तनाव caused इससे an चोट ( देखिए भी  pain and suffering ) .
Some damages that might be under  इस श्रेणी होता be : aches , अस्थाई  and permanent limitations on activity , potential shortening of life , depression or scarring .
When filing a lawsuit as a result of an injury , it is common for someone to seek  धन दोनो in मुआवजे लिये वास्तविक धन कि is खोया और लिये the पीड़ा  and stress associated with virtually any injury .
In a suit , pain and suffering is part of the `` general damages ''  खण्ड of the claimant 's अर्जी , or , alternatively , it is an तत्व of `` compensatory '' non-economic क्षतिपूर्ति कि allows रिकवरी लिये the दिमागी anguish  and/or physical pain endured by the claimant as a result of injury for which the plaintiff seeks redress .
Apart from money damages awarded in trial , money damages are also given informally outside the judicial system in mediations , arbitration ( both  of जिससे may be अदालत annexed or गैर litigated दावा ) as खूब  as in routine insurance settlements .
Individual claimants or those represented by  वकील प्रायः उपस्थित मांगे to insurers to settle  for money .
These demand for  bodily चोट मुआवजे monies  often set out damages that are similarly used in the court litigated pleadings .
Demands are usually written  summaries of a claimant 's चिकित्सा परवाह और the तथ्य जिससे resulted  in the injury .
Sample of a  medallion हस्ताक्षर गारंटी stampin
the  संयुक्त राज्य और कनाडा , a medallion हस्ताक्षर  guarantee is a special signature guarantee for the transfer of securities .
It is a guarantee by the  transferring वित्तीय संस्था कि  the signature is genuine and the financial institution accepts liability for any forgery .
Signature  guarantees protect शेयरधारकों by preventing  unauthorized transfers and possible investor losses .
They also limit the liability of  the ट्रांसफ़र एजेंट  who accepts the certificates .
Different institutions have different  नीतियों as to कया प्रकार of पहचान वे आवश्यकता to provide the गारंटी और whether  they charge a fee for such service ( usually nominal if any ) .
Most institutions will not guarantee a signature  of किसी जो रै नहीं already महरूम उनके ग्राहक  .
A medallion signature guarantee is not the same as an acknowledgment by a notary public , in the sense that a `` signature guarantee ''  is a प्रमाणन by the संस्था कि the हस्ताक्षर is प्रामाणिक , और an acknowledgment is a प्रमाणन by a नोटरी पब्लिक  attesting that the signer signed a document voluntarily .
Some banks may no longer provide this service ,  however , अनेक स्टिल do as खूब as अन्य वित्तीय संस्थानों ऐसे as  a Savings and Loans and Credit Unions .
At their sole discretion , these institutions  may स्टिल मनाही to provide the medallion हस्ताक्षर  Guarantees .
When US citizens are abroad , some financial  संस्थानों may accept संयुक्त राज्य दूतावास seals , in प्लेस of the medallion  Signature Guarantee Stamp .
Pacific Electric Railway streetcars stacked at a junkyard on  टर्मिनल द्वीप , लॉस एंजिल्स काउंटी , कैलिफ़ोर्निया ,  March 1956
The General Motors streetcar conspiracy ( also known as the Great American streetcar scandal ) refers to allegations and convictions in  संबंध to a कार्यक्रम by सामान्य मोटर्स ( gm ) और अन्य कंपनियाँ जो खरीदा और तब dismantled स्ट्रीटकार और इलेक्ट्रिक ट्रैन  systems in many American cities .
Between 1936 and 1950 , National City Lines and Pacific City Lines —with investment from GM , Firestone Tire  , मानक आयल of कैलिफ़ोर्निया , phillips पेट्रोलियम , mack ट्रक  , and the Federal Engineering Corporation—bought over 100 electric surface-traction systems in 45 cities including Baltimore , Newark , Los Angeles , New York City , Oakland and San Diego and converted them into bus operation .
Several of the companies involved were convicted in 1949 of conspiracy to monopolize interstate commerce but were  acquitted of conspiring to monopolize the स्वामित्व of ये कंपनियाँ  .
Some suggest that this program played a key role in the  मनाही of पब्लिक पारगमन in शहरों आरपार the संयुक्त राज्य ; notably एडविन J. quinby , जो पहला खींचा ध्यान to the कार्यक्रम in 1946 , और तब ब्रैडफोर्ड C. snell , an anti-trust attorney  for the United States Senate whose controversial 1974 testimony to a Senate inquiry brought the issue to national awareness .
Both Quinby and Snell  argued कि the deliberate विनाश of streetcars थी भाग of a larger रणनीति to धक्का the  United States into automobile dependency .
Others say that independent economic factors brought about changes in the transit system , including the Great Depression , the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 , labor unrest , market  शक्तियां , rapidly increasing ट्रैफ़िक जमघट , शहरी sprawl , कराधान नीतियों कि favored निजी गाडी स्वामित्व  , and general enthusiasm for the automobile .
One writer on the subject has suggested that Snell and  अन्य गिरी into simplistic षड्यंत्र सिद्धान्त सोच , bordering on paranoid delusions saying `` clearly , gm waged a युद्ध on  electric traction .
It was indeed an all out assault , but by  no अर्थात् the सिंगल कारण लिये the विफलता  of rapid transit .
Also , it is just as  साफ कि क्रियाएँ और inactions by सरकारी contributed  significantly to the elimination of electric traction . ''
Only a small handful of U.S. cities have surviving effective  rail-based शहरी हस्तांतरण प्रणालियों आधारित on streetcars or trams , सहित न्यूर्क , फिलाडेल्फिया , सैन फ्रांसिस्को , पिट्सबर्ग , और बोस्टन ;  others are re-introducing them .
The  स्टोरी रै महरूम छान अनेक टाइम्स in छपाई , फिल्मी और अन्य मीडिया , notably in जो framed  Roger Rabbit , Taken for a Ride and The End of Suburbia .
Corwin House , Salem , Massachusetts  , निर्मित ca . 1660 ,  First Period English
American colonial architecture includes several  भवन डिज़ाइन शैलियाँ संबद्ध साथ the औपनिवेशिक काल of the संयुक्त राज्य , सहित पहला काल अंग्रेज़ी  ( late-medieval ) , French Colonial , Spanish Colonial , Dutch Colonial and Georgian .
These styles are associated with the houses ,  चर्च और सरकारी इमारतें of the  period from about 1600 through the 19th century .
`` In the Mood '' is a  बिग बैंड era # 1 hit अंकित by अमरीकी bandleader  Glenn Miller .
It topped the charts in 1940 in  the u.S. और एक साल बाद थी प्रदर्शित in the फिल्म सूर्य घाटी  Serenade .
In 1999 , National Public Radio ( NPR ) included the 1939 Glenn Miller recording on RCA Bluebird on the NPR 100 , the  सूची of `` the 100 सबसे महत्वपूर्ण अमरीकी musical  works of the 20th century '' .
वरुण  logo
The  वरुण कनाडा प्रोजेक्ट is the world’s पहला regional-scale  underwater ocean observatory that plugs directly into the Internet .
चूंकि दिसम्बर 2009 , it रै अनुमत लोगों to `` लहरे '' the seafloor जबकि समंदर वैज्ञानिकों चलाएं deep-water प्रयोग  from labs and universities around the world .
Along with its sister project , VENUS ,  वरुण offers a अद्वितीय दृष्टिकोण to समंदर  science .
Traditionally , ocean scientists have relied on infrequent ship cruises or space-based  satellites to carry आउट उनके शोध , जबकि the वरुण प्रोजेक्ट उपयोग a remotely संचालित क्रॉलर  .
A gramophone  रिकार्ड , commonly ज्ञात as a फोनोग्राफ रिकार्ड ( in अमरीकी अंग्रेज़ी ) , विनाइल  record ( in reference to vinyl , the material most commonly used after about 1950 ) , or colloquially , `` a record '' , is an analog sound storage medium consisting of a flat disc with an inscribed , modulated spiral groove .
The groove  प्रायः starts निकट the periphery और  ends near the center of the disc .
Phonograph records are generally described by their diameter in inches ( 12-inch , 10-inch ,  7-inch , इत्यादि . ) , the rotational गति at जिससे वे हैं निभाई ( `` 33 आरपीएम `` , `` 78 '' , `` 45 '' , इत्यादि . ) , उनके समय क्षमता ( `` long playing '' ) , उनके reproductive सटीकता , or  `` fidelity `` ( `` high fidelity '' , `` Orthophonic '' , `` full-range '' , etc . ) , and the number of channels of audio provided ( `` mono `` , `` stereo `` , `` quadraphonic `` , etc . ) .
Phonograph records were the primary medium used for music reproduction for most of the 20th century , replacing the  फोनोग्राफ बेलन , साथ जिससे it था co-existed , by  the 1920s .
By the late 1980s , digital media had gained a larger  मार्केट share , और the  vinyl record left the mainstream in 1991 .
They continue  to be manufactured  and sold in the 21st century .
In 2008 , nearly  2.9 लाख इकाई shipped , the सबसे in कोई साल चूंकि  1998 and the format has continued to slowly regain popularity .
They are  विशेषकर प्रयुक्त by djs और audiophiles लिये अनेक  types of music .
as of 2013 , विनाइल रिकॉर्ड  continue to be used for distribution .
Grassland  in the सांता रोजा पठार  , California .
घासभूमि in the antelope  Valley , California
The Konza tallgrass prairie in  the चकमक पहाड़ियाँ of northeastern  Kansas .
A  घासभूमि in the फिलीपीन  .
An Inner Mongolian grassland in the  लोगों 's गणतंत्र of चीन
grasslands हैं क्षेत्रों जहाँ the वनस्पति is वर्चस्व by grasses ( पोएसी ) , however  sedge ( Cyperaceae ) and rush ( Juncaceae ) families can also be found .
Grasslands occur naturally on all  महाद्वीपों मगर अंटार्कटिक .
In  शीतोष्ण latitudes , ऐसे as northwestern यूरोपीय और the ग्रेट मैदान और कैलिफ़ोर्निया in उत्तर अमेरिका , देशी grasslands हैं वर्चस्व  by perennial bunch grass species , whereas in warmer climates annual species form a greater component of the vegetation .
Grasslands are  मिला in सबसे ecoregions  of the Earth .
For example there are five terrestrial ecoregion classifications (  subdivisions ) of the शीतोष्ण grasslands , savannas , और shrublands बायोम ( ' ecosystem  ' ) , which is one of eight terrestrial ecozones of the Earth 's surface .
Henna ( Lawsonia inermis , also called henna  पेड़ ) or हिना is a flowering संयंत्र , the एकमात्र प्रजाति in the genus  Lawsonia in the family Lythraceae .
The English name ``  हिना '' आता इससे the अरबी ( ala-lc : ḥinnāʾ / सुनाया ) or colloquially  , loosely pronounced .
The name is also used for dye  preparations निकला इससे the संयंत्र , और  for the art of temporary tattooing based on those dyes .
हिना रै महरूम प्रयुक्त चूंकि प्राचीनता to डाई स्किन , बाल , और fingernails  , as well as fabrics including Silk , wool and leather .
Additionally , the name  is misused लिये अन्य स्किन और बाल dyes , ऐसे as ब्लैक  henna or neutral henna , which are not derived from the plant .
a पतला फिल्मी is a परत of सामग्री ranging इससे भिन्नों  of a nanometer ( monolayer ) to several micrometers in thickness .
Electronic  सेमीकंडक्टर डिवाइस और ऑप्टिकल coatings हैं  the main applications benefiting from thin-film construction .
A familiar application of thin films is the household mirror , which typically has a thin  मेटल कोटिंग on the वापस of a चादर of कांच to रूप a  reflective interface .
the प्रक्रम of silvering थी एकबार commonly  used to produce mirrors .
A very-thin-film coating ( less than  a nanometer मोटा ) is प्रयुक्त to उपज two-way  mirrors .
The performance of optical coatings ( e.g . antireflective , or AR ,  coatings ) हैं typically उन्नत जब the thin-film कोटिंग consists of अनेक परतों having varying  thicknesses and refractive indices .
Similarly , a periodic structure of alternating thin films of different materials  may collectively रूप a so-called superlattice जिससे कारनामे the घटना  of quantum confinement by restricting electronic phenomena to two-dimensions .
कार्य is होने किया साथ ferromagnetic और ferroelectric पतला films  for use as computer memory .
It is  भी होने लागू to  pharmaceuticals , via thin-film drug delivery .
Thin-films are  प्रयुक्त to उपज  thin-film batteries .
Thin films are  भी प्रयुक्त in dye-sensitized  solar cells .
सिरेमिक पतला films हैं in  wide use .
The relatively high hardness and inertness of ceramic  सामग्री मेक इस प्रकार of पतला कोटिंग of ब्याज लिये सुरक्षा  of substrate materials against corrosion , oxidation and wear .
In particular , the  उपयोग of ऐसे coatings on कटिंग टूल्स can extend  the life of these items by several orders of magnitude .
Research  is होने किया on a नई क्लास of thin-film अकार्बनिक ऑक्साइड सामग्री , पुकारा amorphous heavy-metal  cation multicomponent oxides , which could be used to make transparent transistors that are inexpensive , stable , and environmentally benign .
Gears of War is a military science  fiction third-person शूटर वीडियो खेल विकसित by एपिक खेल और  published by Microsoft Game Studios .
It was initially released as an exclusive title for the Xbox 360 in November 2005 in North America ,  ऑस्ट्रेलिया , और सबसे of यूरोपीय और शामिल a `` सीमित कलेक्टर 's संस्करण '' साथ added सामग्री और an आर्ट  book titled Destroyed Beauty that detailed much of the game 's back-story .
Despite the initial statements of Xbox 360 exclusivity , a Microsoft Windows version of the game was developed in conjunction with People Can Fly and released a year  बाद , featuring नई सामग्री सहित  additional campaign levels , a new multiplayer game mode , and Games for Windows Live functionality .
The game  focuses on the सैनिकों of डेल्टा स्क्वाड as वे wield a हताश , last-ditch attempt  to save the remaining human inhabitants of the fictional planet Sera from a relentless and seemingly unstoppable subterranean enemy known as the Locust Horde .
the खिलाड़ी assumes the भूमिका of मार्कस fenix ( लकिन can भी  play as Dominic Santiago ) , a former prisoner and war-hardened soldier .
The game is based on the use of cover and strategic fire for the player to advance through the  scenarios ; a दूसरी खिलाड़ी can खेल cooperatively through the प्रमुख अभियान to  assist .
The game also features  अनेक ऑनलाइन एकाधिक खेल मोड्स लिये up to आठ खिलाड़ी .
Gears of War sold over three  लाख नक़ल in बस टेन सप्ताह और थी the fastest-selling वीडियो खेल of 2005 as खूब as  the second-most played game over Xbox Live during .
It currently stands as the 5th  बेहतरीन selling एक्सबॉक्स 360 खेल of सब  time .
The game has since sold  over पाँच लाख नक़ल by सितंबर  2008 .
The game was well received by critics , who praised its gameplay and detailed visuals , and it won several ``  खेल of the साल '' पुरस्कार  in 2006 .
The success of the game has led to the development of the Gears of War  मताधिकार , सहित the 2008 sequel गियर्स of युद्ध 2 और इसके follow-up , गियर्स of युद्ध 3 , जिससे थी released on सितंबर 20 , 2011 , बाद having initially महरूम नियत to have महरूम released on अप्रैल 5 , 2011  , the date upon which Epic Games ' Cliff Bleszinski was a guest on Late Night with Jimmy Fallon .
Adaptations to books , comics , as well  as a विशेषता फिल्मी हैं to  be expected .
A  पेड़ grows in ब्रुकलीन is  a 1943 novel written by Betty Smith .
The story focuses on  an irish-american परिवार in williamsburg  , Brooklyn , New York City .
The novel is  नियत in the पहला और दूसरी दशकों of  the 20th century .
the किताब थी an  immense success .
The main metaphor of the book is the hardy Tree of  स्वर्ग , देशी to चीन और ताईवान , अभी माना हृदयरोग , और आम  in the vacant lots of New York City .
संसार मैप साथ the intertropical  zone highlighted in red .
Tropical climate zones  of the धरती जहाँ सब बारह महीने have औसत  temperatures above 18 °C ( 64 °F ) .
The tropics is a region of  the धरती surrounding the equator  .
It is limited in latitude by  the tropic of कर्कट in the उत्तरी गोलार्ध at लगभग n और the tropic  of Capricorn in the southern hemisphere at S ; these latitudes correspond to the axial tilt of the Earth .
The  ऊष्णकटिबन्ध हैं भी referred to as the तीव्र मण्डल और the torrid मण्डल ( देखिए भौगोलिक  zone ) .
The tropics  शामिल सब the क्षेत्रों on the धरती जहाँ the सूर्य पहुँच  a point directly overhead at least once during the solar year .
The tropics are distinguished from the  अन्य climatic और biomatic regions of धरती , the मध्य latitudes और the ध्रुवीय regions  on either side of the equatorial zone .
For the INXS song , see What You  need ( सोंग ) .
`` What You Need '' is an episode of the American  टेलीविज़न anthology श्रेणी the गोधूलि  Zone .
It is based on the  छोटी स्टोरी of the वही नाम by लुईस padgett  ( Henry Kuttner and C. L. Moore ) .
PlayhouseSquare ,  in the क्लीवलैंड थिएटर ज़िला in शहर क्लीवलैंड , ओहियो , is the second-largest  theater complex in the United States , second only to New York City 's Lincoln Center ) .
Constructed in a span of 19 months in the  जल्दी 1920s , the थिएटर यहूद subsequently बंद bas , लकिन  were revived through a grassroots effort .
Their renovation and reopening helped usher in a new era of downtown  पुनरोद्धार in क्लीवलैंड , और थी पुकारा `` एक of the शीर्ष टेन सफलताओं  in Cleveland history . ''
The driver and passenger front airbags ,  बाद having महरूम तैनात , in a अंग्रेजों peugeot  306 car .
An airbag is a  गाडी सुरक्षा  device .
It is an occupant restraint system consisting of  a लचीली कपड़ा लिफाफा or cushion  designed to inflate rapidly during an automobile collision .
Its purpose is  to cushion occupants दौरान a क्रैश और provide सुरक्षा  to their bodies when they strike interior objects such as the steering wheel or a window .
Modern vehicles may contain multiple airbag modules in various  पक्ष और frontal स्थितियाँ of the यात्री seating स्थितियाँ , और सेंसर may तैनात एक or अधिक airbags in an प्रभाव मण्डल at परिवर्तनीय दरों आधारित on the प्रकार  , angle and severity of impact ; the airbag is designed to only inflate in moderate to severe frontal crashes .
Airbags  हैं सामान्यतः designed साथ the इरादे of supplementing the सुरक्षा  of an occupant who is correctly restrained with a seatbelt .
Most designs are  inflated through pyrotechnic अर्थात् और can तभी be संचालित  once .
Newer side-impact airbag modules  consist of संपीडित एयर सिलेंडर कि  are triggered in the event of a side impact vehicle impact .
The  पहला वाणिज्यिक डिजाइन यहूद introduced in यात्री  automobiles during the 1970s with limited success .
Broad commercial adoption of airbags occurred in many markets during the late 1980s and early 1990s with a driver airbag , and a front passenger airbag as  खूब on कुछ गाड़ियाँ ; और अनेक आधुनिक वाहनों अभी शामिल चार  or more units .
IRS tax forms are used for taxpayers and tax-exempt organizations to report financial  सूचना to the आतंरिक आय सेवा ( irs ) of the संयुक्त  States .
They are used to report income , calculate  कर to be सशुल्क to the संघीय सरकारी of the संयुक्त राज्य , और ज़ाहिर  other information as required by the Internal Revenue Code ( IRC ) .
There are over  800 विभिन्न  forms and schedules .
the best-known of ये is रूप  1040 used by individuals .
In the United States , driver 's licenses are issued by each individual state ( including Washington , D.C. and territories ) ,  बल्कि than the संघीय सरकारी क्युकी of the राजनैतिक अवधारणा of संघवाद  .
Drivers are  सामान्यतः जरूरी to obtain a अनुज्ञा इससे उनके राज्य of निवास और सब राज्य recognize प्रत्येक अन्य  's licenses for temporary visitors subject to normal age requirements .
A state may also suspend an individual 's  ड्राइविंग विशेषाधिकार भीतर इसके सीमायें लिये  traffic violations .
Many states  share a आम प्रणाली of अनुज्ञा वर्ग , साथ कुछ अपवाद , और वाणिज्यिक  license classes are standardized by federal regulation at 49 CFR part 383 .
China has been  the सोर्स of अनेक आविष्कारों , सहित the चार ग्रेट आविष्कारों  : papermaking , the compass , gunpowder , and printing ( both woodblock and movable type ) .
The list below contains  ये और अन्य आविष्कारों  .
The Chinese invented technologies involving mechanics ,  hydraulics , और गणित लागू to horology , metallurgy , खगोलशास्त्र , कृषि  , engineering , music theory , craftsmanship , nautics , and warfare .
By the Warring States Period ( 403–221 BC ) , they had advanced metallurgic technology , including the blast furnace and cupola  भट्टी , जबकि the finery forge और puddling प्रक्रम यहूद ज्ञात by  the Han Dynasty ( 202 BC – AD 220 ) .
A sophisticated economic system in  चीन दिया जनम to आविष्कारों ऐसे as पेपर धन दौरान the सोंग  Dynasty ( 960–1279 ) .
The invention of gunpowder by the 10th century led to an array of inventions such as the fire  तलवार , जमीन मेरा , नवल मेरा , हाथ तोपों , exploding गोलों , multistage प्रक्षेपास्त्र , और प्रक्षेपास्त्र बम साथ aerodynamic विंग्स और विस्फोटक payloads  .
With the navigational aid of the  11th-century कम्पास और क्षमता to steer at ऊँची समुद्र साथ the 1st-century sternpost अरित्र , premodern चाइनीज sailors  sailed as far as East Africa and Egypt .
In water-powered clockworks , the premodern Chinese had used the escapement  यांत्रिकी चूंकि the 8th सदी और the अंतहीन power-transmitting  chain drive in the 11th century .
They also made large mechanical puppet theaters driven by waterwheels and  carriage पहियों और wine-serving  automatons driven by paddle wheel boats .
The  contemporaneous peiligang और pengtoushan संस्कृतियों  represent the oldest Neolithic cultures of China and were formed around 7000 BC .
Some of the first inventions of Neolithic , prehistoric China include semilunar and rectangular stone knives , stone hoes and spades , the  cultivation of बाजरा , राइस और the सोयाबीन , the refinement of sericulture , the भवन of rammed धरती structures साथ लाइम -plastered हाउस floors , the सृष्टि of the कुम्हार 's व्हील , the सृष्टि of pottery साथ  cord-mat-basket designs , the creation of pottery tripods and pottery steamers , and the development of ceremonial vessels and scapulimancy for purposes of divination .
Francesca Bray argues that the domestication of the ox and buffalo during the Longshan culture ( c. 3000–c . 2000 BC ) period , the absence of Longshan-era irrigation or high-yield crops , full evidence of Longshan cultivation of dry-land cereal crops which gave high yields `` only when the soil was  carefully cultivated , '' सुझाएँ कि the हल थी ज्ञात at तनिक by the longshan संस्कृति काल और explains the ऊँची agricultural उत्पादन yields जिससे अनुमत the वृद्धि of चाइनीज सभ्यता दौरान the  Shang Dynasty ( c. 1600–c . 1050 BC ) .
With  बाद आविष्कारों ऐसे as the multiple-tube बीज ड्रिल और भारी moldboard आयरन  plow , China 's agricultural output could sustain a much larger population .
For the purposes of this list , inventions are regarded as technological firsts developed in China , and as such does not include foreign  technologies जिससे the चाइनीज acquired through सम्पर्क , ऐसे as the पवनचक्की इससे the मध्य ईस्ट or the दूरदर्शी  from Early modern Europe .
It also does not include technologies developed elsewhere and later invented separately  by the चाइनीज , ऐसे as the ओडोमीटर और कड़ी  pump .
Scientific , mathematic or natural  discoveries , परिवर्तन in नाबालिग अवधारणाओं of डिज़ाइन or स्टाइल और कलाकारी  innovations can not be regarded as inventions and do not appear on the list .
Gross domestic product in 2011 US dollars per capita , adjusted for inflation and  खरीदना शक्ति पैरिटी ( log स्केल ) इससे 1860 to 2011 , साथ जनसांख्यिकी ( डिस्क क्षेत्रफल ) लिये the us ( पीला ) , uk ( नारंगी ) , जापानी ( रेड ) , चीन ( रेड )  , and India ( blue ) .
Globalization ( or  globalisation—see स्पेलिंग मतभेद ) is the प्रक्रम of अंतरराष्ट्रीय संयोजन arising इससे the इंटरचेंज of संसार  views , products , ideas , and other aspects of culture .
Put in simple terms , globalization refers to  प्रक्रियाओं कि प्रचार world-wide  exchanges of national and cultural resources .
Advances in transportation and telecommunications infrastructure , including the rise of the Internet , are  प्रमुख कारकों in वैश्वीकरण , generating further interdependence  of economic and cultural activities .
Though several scholars place the origins of globalization in  आधुनिक टाइम्स , अन्य ट्रेस इसके इतिहास long पहले the यूरोपीय आयु of  discovery and voyages to the New World .
Some even trace the origins to  the तीसरा मिलेनियम  BCE .
Since the beginning of the 20th  सदी , the pace of वैश्वीकरण रै intensified at a रैपिड रेट  , especially during the Post Cold War era .
The term globalization  रै महरूम in increasing उपयोग चूंकि the mid-1980s और विशेषकर  since the mid-1990s .
In 2000 , the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय मौद्रिक निधि ( imf ) पहचाना चार मौलिक पहलुओं of वैश्वीकरण : व्यापार और  transactions , capital and investment movements , migration and movement of people and the dissemination of knowledge .
Further , environmental challenges such as climate change , cross-boundary water and air  प्रदूषण , और over-fishing of the समंदर हैं linked साथ वैश्वीकरण  .
Globalizing processes affect and are affected by  कारोबार और कार्य संगठन , अर्थशास्त्र , socio-cultural  resources , and the natural environment .
The Replacements is a  2000 अमरीकी खेल कॉमेडी फिल्मी निर्देशित  by Howard Deutch .
It stars  कियानू रीव्स , जीन hackman , और ब्रुक  Langton .
An American  एयरलाइंस वायुयान takes बंद  from Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport .
This airport is  the एयरलाइन 's largest  hub .
अमरीकी एयरलाइंस उड़ता to 79 घरेलू गंतव्यों और 78 अंतरराष्ट्रीय गंतव्यों  in 48 countries .
(  as of दिसम्बर  2012 )
The list includes the city , country , the codes of the International Air Transport Association ( IATA airport code ) and the International Civil Aviation Organization ( ICAO airport code )  , और the विमानक्षेत्र 's नाम , साथ the एयरलाइन 's hubs , फ़ोकस शहरों  and seasonal destinations marked .
The list  भी contains गंतव्यों no longer  served by the airline , which are marked as terminated destinations .
It does not include destinations served for American Airlines by its regional affiliates  अमरीकी त्रिभुज एयरलाइंस , कार्यपालिका एयरलाइंस , और americanconnection  .
`` Day-O ( The Banana Boat Song ) '' is a traditional Jamaican mento folk song , the best-known version of  जिससे थी सुंग by हैरी belafonte और an वैकल्पिक संस्करण  interspersed with another Jamaican folksong , Hill and Gully Rider , by Dame Shirley Bassey .
Despite the song 's mento  प्रभाव , `` day-o ( the banana नाव सोंग ) '' is widely ज्ञात  as an example of calypso music .
It is a work  सोंग , इससे the पाइंट of दृश्य of डॉक मजदूर working  the night shift loading bananas onto ships .
Daylight has come , the  शिफ़्ट is over और वे want उनके कार्य  to be counted up so that they can go home .
World War I ( WWI ) was a global war centred in Europe that began on 28 July  1914 और lasted जबतक 11 नवम्बर 1918  .
It was predominantly called the World War or the Great War from its  occurrence जबतक the प्रारंभ of संसार युद्ध ii in 1939 , और the  First World War or World War I thereafter .
It involved all the world 's great powers , which were assembled in two opposing alliances : the Allies ( based on the Triple Entente of the United Kingdom , France and Russia ) and the Central Powers ( originally the Triple Alliance of  जर्मनी , austria-hungary और इटली ; लकिन , as austria–hungary था लिया the अप्रिय विरूद्ध the अनुबंध , इटली किया नहीं डालें into  the war ) .
These alliances were both reorganised and expanded as more nations  डाला the युद्ध : इटली , जापानी और the संयुक्त राज्य joined the allies , और the उस्मानी साम्राज्य और बुल्गारिया  the Central Powers .
Ultimately , more than 70 million military personnel  , सहित 60 लाख europeans , यहूद mobilised in एक of the  largest wars in history .
More than 9 million combatants were killed , largely because of technological  advancements कि led to विशाल increases in the lethality of हथियार बगैर सम्बन्धित सुधार in सुरक्षा or गतिशीलता  .
It was the fifth- deadliest conflict in  संसार इतिहास , subsequently paving the रास्ता लिये विभिन्न राजनैतिक परिवर्तन , ऐसे as  revolutions in many of the nations involved .
One of the long-term causes of the  युद्ध थी the पुनरुत्थान of साम्राज्यवाद in  the foreign policies of the great powers of Europe .
More  तत्काल , the हत्या of archduke फ्रांज फर्डिनेंड of ऑस्ट्रिया , the वारिस to the सिंहासन of austria-hungary , on 28 जून 1914  by Yugoslav nationalist Gavrilo Princip in Sarajevo triggered a diplomatic crisis when Austria-Hungary subsequently delivered an ultimatum to the Kingdom of Serbia .
अनेक alliances formed over the पिछला  decades were invoked .
Within weeks , the major powers were at war  और , via उनके colonies , the विरोध जल्द स्प्रेड  around the world .
On 28 July , the Austro-Hungarians fired  the पहला गोलियाँ of the युद्ध as तैयारी  for the invasion of Serbia .
While the Russians mobilised , the Germans invaded neutral Belgium and Luxembourg on the way to France , providing a casus belli for  ब्रिटेन 's घोषणा of युद्ध विरूद्ध जर्मनी  .
After the German march on Paris was brought  to a halt—the so-called चमत्कार of the marne —the पश्चिमी सामने  settled into a static battle of attrition with a trench line that changed little until 1917 .
On the Eastern Front , the  रूसी फौज थी कामयाब विरूद्ध the austro-hungarians , लकिन थी  stopped in its invasion of East Prussia by the Germans .
In November the  उस्मानी साम्राज्य joined the युद्ध , खोलने up fronts in the  Caucasus , Mesopotamia and the Sinai .
Italy and Bulgaria went  to युद्ध in 1915 और रोमानिया in  1916 .
In Russia , the tsar 's government collapsed in March 1917 and a subsequent  क्रान्ति in नवम्बर brought the russians to शर्तें साथ  the Central Powers .
After a 1918 German offensive along the  पश्चिमी सामने , the allies drove वापस the germans in a श्रेणी of कामयाब  offensives and American forces began entering the trenches .
Germany , which had its own trouble with revolutionaries ,  सहमत to an armistice on 11  November 1918 .
The war  ended in विजय लिये the allies  .
Events on the home fronts were as tumultuous as on the battle  fronts , as the भागीदार आजमाया to mobilize उनके जनशक्ति और आर्थिक संसाधन to लड़ो  a total war .
By the end of the war , four  प्रमुख इम्पीरियल powers—the जर्मनी , रूसी , austro-hungarian  and Ottoman empires—ceased to exist .
The successor states of the  पूर्व दो खोया a ग्रेट राशि of territory , जबकि  the latter two were dismantled entirely .
The map of central Europe  थी redrawn into अनेक छोटी राज्य  .
The League of Nations was  formed in the आशा of preventing another  such conflict .
The European nationalism  शाखित by the युद्ध और the ब्रेकअप of empires , the परखना of जर्मनी 's शिकस्त और समस्याएं साथ  the Treaty of Versailles are agreed to be factors contributing to World War II .
Nurse Jackie is an American  श्रेणी कि premiered on जून 8 , 2009 , on showtime , फिल्म  Central and The Movie Network .
The series stars Edie Falco as the title character Jackie Peyton , an  आपात विभाग नर्स at सब  Saints ' Hospital in New York City .
For Jackie , ``  प्रत्येक दिन is a ऊँची तार अधिनियम of  juggling patients , doctors , fellow nurses and her own indiscretions . ''
Keeping Up with the  kardashians ( प्रायः referred to बस as the kardashians ) is an अमरीकी वास्तविकता  television series that premiered on October 14 , 2007 , on E ! .
it फ़ॉलो the जीवनदान of the kardashian/jenner परिवार  , including sisters Kourtney , Kim , and Khloé Kardashian .
The series ' success has led  to the spin-offs कोर्टनी और किम लो नई यॉर्क , khloé &  Lamar , Kourtney and Khloé Take Miami , and Kourtney and Kim Take Miami .
Afghanistan ( ; ; ) , officially the Islamic Republic of  अफगानिस्तान , is a landlocked sovereign राज्य forming  part of South Asia , Central Asia , and to some extent Western Asia .
It has a population of around 30 million inhabiting an area of approximately  , बनाना it the 42nd सबसे populous और 41st largest स्वदेश in the संसार  .
It is bordered by Pakistan in the south and the east , Iran in the west  , तुर्कमेनिस्तान , उज़्बेकिस्तान और ताजिकिस्तान in the उत्तर , और  China in the far northeast .
Afghanistan has  महरूम an प्राचीन फोकल पाइंट of the रेशा  Road and human migration .
Archaeologists have found evidence of human  habitation इससे as दूर वापस as the मध्य paleolithic  .
Urban civilization may have  begun in the क्षेत्रफल as जल्दी as 3,000 to  2,000 BCE .
Sitting at an important  geostrategic स्थान कि connects the मध्य ईस्ट संस्कृति साथ सेंट्रल एशिया और the भारतीय उपमहाद्वीप , the जमीन रै महरूम घर to विभिन्न peoples through  the ages and witnessed many military campaigns , notably by Alexander the Great , Genghis Khan , and in modern era Western forces .
The land also served as a  सोर्स इससे जिससे the greco-bactrians , kushans , hephthalites , saffarids  , Ghaznavids , Ghorids , Khiljis , Timurids , Mughals , Durranis , and others have risen to form major empires .
The political history of the modern state of Afghanistan begins in 1709 , when the Hotaki dynasty was established in Kandahar followed by Ahmad  शाह दुर्रानी 's वृद्धि to शक्ति in 1747  .
In the late  19th सदी , अफगानिस्तान became a बफ़र  state in the `` Great Game `` between the British and Russian empires .
Following the 1919 Anglo-Afghan War , King Amanullah  began a यूरोपीय स्टाइल modernization of the देश लकिन  was stopped by the ultra-conservatives .
During the Cold War , after the withdrawal of the British from neighboring India in 1947 , the United States and the Soviet Union began spreading  प्रभाव in अफगानिस्तान , जिससे led to a खूनी युद्ध between the us-backed मुजाहिदीन शक्तियां और the soviet-backed अफगान सरकारी in जिससे over  a million Afghans lost their lives .
This was followed by the 1990s civil  युद्ध , the वृद्धि और पतन of the extremist तालिबान  government and the 2001–present war .
In December 2001 , the United Nations Security Council authorized the creation of  the अंतरराष्ट्रीय सुरक्षा सहायता फ़ोर्स ( isaf ) to सहायता maintain सुरक्षा in अफगानिस्तान और assist  the Karzai administration .
Three decades of war made Afghanistan one of the world 's most dangerous  देशों , सहित the largest निर्माता of शरणार्थियों और  asylum seekers .
While  the अंतरराष्ट्रीय जातियाँ is पुनर्निर्माण war-torn अफगानिस्तान , आतंकवादी समूह ऐसे as the हक्कानी संजाल  and Hezbi Islami are actively involved in a nationwide Taliban -led insurgency , which includes hundreds of assassinations and suicide attacks .
According to the United Nations , the  insurgents यहूद जिम्मेदार लिये 80 % of civilian हताहत in 2011 और 2012  .
The American Civil War ( ACW ) , also known as the War between the States or simply the Civil War ( see naming )  , थी a सिविल युद्ध लड़ा इससे 1861 to 1865 between the संयुक्त राज्य ( the `` संघ '' or the `` उत्तर '' )  and several Southern slave states that declared their secession and formed the Confederate States of America ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ) .
The war had its origin in the issue of slavery ,  विशेषकर the एक्सटेंशन of गुलामी into the पश्चिमी territories  .
विदेशी शक्तियां किया नहीं  intervene .
After four years of bloody combat that left over 600,000  सैनिको मुर्दे और नष्ट much of the दक्षिण 's अवसंरचना , the confederacy collapsed , गुलामी थी abolished ,  and the difficult Reconstruction process of restoring national unity and guaranteeing rights to the freed slaves began .
In the 1860 presidential election , Republicans , led by Abraham  lincoln , opposed expanding गुलामी into संयुक्त राज्य ' territories  .
lincoln जीती , लकिन पहले उसके उद्घाटन on कूच 4 , 1861 , सात cotton-based  slave states formed the Confederacy .
Outgoing  लोकतांत्रिक अध्यक्ष जेम्स बुकानन और the आवक republicans अस्वीकृत  secession as illegal .
Lincoln 's inaugural address declared  उसके प्रशासन होता नहीं initiate  civil war .
Eight  बाकी स्लेव राज्य जारी to अस्वीकृत  calls for secession .
Confederate forces seized  numerous संघीय दुर्गों भीतर territory claimed by the confederacy  .
A Peace Conference failed to find a compromise  , और दोनो पहलू prepared लिये युद्ध .
The Confederates assumed that European countries were so dependent  on `` किंग कपास `` कि वे होता intervene ; none किया और none पहचाना the नई confederate  States of America .
Hostilities began on April 12 , 1861 , when  confederate शक्तियां fired upon फोर्ट sumter , a कुंजी फोर्ट आयोजित  by Union troops in South Carolina .
Lincoln called for each state to provide troops to retake the fort ; consequently ,  चार अधिक स्लेव राज्य joined the confederacy , bringing उनके  total to eleven .
The Union  जल्द नियंत्रित the किनारा राज्य और स्थापित a नवल नाकेबंदी कि  crippled the southern economy .
The  पूर्वी थिएटर थी  inconclusive in 1861–62 .
the पतझड़ 1862 confederate अभियान into मेरीलैंड ( a संघ राज्य ) ended  with Confederate retreat at the Battle of Antietam , dissuading British intervention .
lincoln जारी the emancipation उदघोषणा  , which made ending slavery a war goal .
To the west , by summer 1862 the Union destroyed the Confederate river navy ,  तब much of उनके पश्चिमी सेना , और the संघ at vicksburg विभाजित the confederacy  in two at the Mississippi River .
In 1863 , Robert E. Lee 's Confederate  incursion उत्तर ended at the बैटल of gettysburg  .
Western successes led to  ulysses S. ग्रान्ट कमांड of सब संघ  armies in 1864 .
In  the पश्चिमी थिएटर , विलियम T. शरमन drove ईस्ट to कैप्चर अटलांटा और marched  to the sea , destroying Confederate infrastructure along the way .
The Union marshaled the resources and manpower to attack the  confederacy इससे सब दिशानिर्देश , और could afford to लड़ो लड़ाइयों of अपघर्षण through the overland अभियान  towards Richmond , the Confederate capital .
The defending Confederate army failed ,  अग्रणी to ली 's आत्मसमर्पण to ग्रान्ट at  Appomattox Court House on April 9 , 1865 .
The American Civil War was one  of the earliest सच्चा औद्योगिक  wars .
Railroads , the telegraph  , steamships , और mass-produced हथियार यहूद employed extensively  .
The  mobilization of civilian कारखानों , खानों , shipyards , बैंको , परिवहन  and food supplies all foreshadowed World War I .
It remains the deadliest war in American history ,  resulting in the मौतों of an अनुमानित 750,000 सैनिको और an undetermined क्रमांक of civilian  casualties .
Historian John Huddleston estimates the death  टोल at टेन प्रतिशत of सब उत्तरी males 20–45 सालो बूढ़ा , और  30 percent of all Southern white males aged 18–40 .
Cost  of goods बेची ( cogs ) refer to the inventory  costs of those goods a business has sold during a particular period .
Costs are associated with particular goods using one of  अनेक formulas , सहित विशिष्ट पहचान , first-in  first-out ( FIFO ) , or average cost .
Costs include all costs of purchase , costs  of परिवर्तन और अन्य लागत incurred in bringing the inventories to  their present location and condition .
Costs  of goods बना by the कारोबार शामिल सामग्री  , labor , and allocated overhead .
The costs of those goods not yet sold  हैं deferred as लागत of inventory जबतक the inventory is बेची or  written down in value .
Freak  lunchbox कैंडी स्टोर in halifax  , Nova Scotia
A confectionery store ( more commonly referred to as a sweet shop in the United Kingdom , a candy store  in the उत्तर अमेरिका , or a lolly दूकान in ऑस्ट्रेलिया ) बिकता confectionery और is प्रायः targeted to children  .
Most confectionery stores are filled with an assortment of  मिठाई दूर larger than a पंसारी or convenience स्टोर could  accommodate .
वे प्रायः प्रस्ताव a चयन of बूढ़ा fashioned  treats , and sweets from different countries .
Very often unchanged in layout since their inception ,  confectioneries हैं ज्ञात लिये उनके वार्मिंग और  nostalgic feel .
The  गाँव of pateley सेतु दावा to have the oldest  confectionery store in England .
The oldest sweet shop in England  , in the गाँव of pateley  Bridge
Oklahoma ( ) ( Pawnee : Uukuhuúwa , Cayuga  : gahnawiyoˀgeh ) is a राज्य स्तिथ in वेस्ट दक्षिण  Central United States .
ओक्लाहोमा is the 20th सबसे  extensive and the 28th most populous of the 50 United States .
The state 's name is derived from the Choctaw words okla and  humma , अर्थ `` रेड लोगों '' , और it is ज्ञात informally by इसके उपनाम ,  The Sooner State .
Formed by the combination of Oklahoma Territory and Indian Territory on  नवम्बर 16 , 1907 , ओक्लाहोमा थी the 46th राज्य to डालें the  union .
Its residents are known  as oklahomans or , informally `` okies '' , और इसके पूंजी और  largest city is Oklahoma City .
A major producer  of प्राकृतिक गैस , आयल , और कृषि , ओक्लाहोमा relies on an आर्थिक आधार of विमानन ,  energy , telecommunications , and biotechnology .
It has one of the fastest growing economies in the  स्वदेश , रैंकिंग among the शीर्ष राज्य in प्रति capita आय विकास और सकल  domestic product growth .
Oklahoma City and Tulsa serve as Oklahoma 's primary economic  anchors , साथ nearly दो तिहाई of oklahomans जीना भीतर उनके महानगर  statistical areas .
With small mountain ranges , prairie , mesas , and eastern forests , most of Oklahoma  झूठ in the ग्रेट मैदान और the u.s . आंतरिक हाइलैंड्स —a प्रदेश विशेषकर prone to  severe weather .
In addition to having a prevalence of English , German ,  स्कॉटिश , आयरिश और देशी अमरीकी ancestry , अधिक than 25 देशी अमरीकी भाषाएं हैं बोला in ओक्लाहोमा  , second only to California .
ओक्लाहोमा is स्तिथ on a संगम of तीन प्रमुख अमरीकी सांस्कृतिक regions और historically  served as a route for cattle drives , a destination for southern settlers , and a government-sanctioned territory for Native Americans .
Stacked and  खड़ा car  tires
A tire ( or tyre ) is a ring-shaped covering that fits  around a व्हील 's रिम to protect it और enable बेहतर गाडी  performance .
Most tires , such as those for automobiles and  साइकिल , provide कर्षण between the गाडी और the सड़क जबकि providing  a flexible cushion that absorbs shock .
The materials of  आधुनिक न्यूमेटिक टायर हैं सिंथेटिक रबर , प्राकृतिक रबर , कपड़ा और  wire , along with carbon black and other chemical compounds .
They consist of  a tread और a देह  .
The tread provides traction while the body provides  containment लिये a मात्रा of संपीडित  air .
Before rubber was developed , the first versions of tires  यहूद बस bands of मेटल कि fitted around लकड़ी पहियों to  prevent wear and tear .
Early rubber  टायर यहूद ठोस ( नहीं न्यूमेटिक  ) .
Today , the majority of tires are pneumatic  inflatable structures , comprising  a doughnut-shaped body of cords and wires encased in rubber and generally filled with compressed air to form an inflatable cushion .
Pneumatic tires are used on many types of  वाहनों , सहित गाड़ियाँ , साइकिल , मोटरसाइकिल  , trucks , earthmovers , and aircraft .
Metal tires are still used on locomotives and railcars , and solid rubber ( or other  पॉलिमर ) टायर हैं स्टिल प्रयुक्त in विभिन्न non-automotive अनुप्रयोग , ऐसे  as some casters , carts , lawnmowers , and wheelbarrows .
Dr. Joseph Warren ( June 11 , 1741 – June 17 , 1775 ) was an American  डॉक्टर जो निभाई a अग्रणी भूमिका in अमरीकी patriot संगठन in बोस्टन in जल्दी दिनों of the अमरीकी क्रान्ति , आखिरकार  serving as president of the revolutionary Massachusetts Provincial Congress .
Warren enlisted Paul Revere and William Dawes on April 18 , 1775 , to leave Boston and spread  the सचेतक कि the अंग्रेजों गैरीसन in बोस्टन थी सेटिंग आउट to रेड the कस्बा of concord और गिरफ़्तार विद्रोही  leaders John Hancock and Samuel Adams .
Warren participated in  the अगला दिन 's लड़ाइयों of lexington और concord , जिससे हैं commonly माना to  be the opening engagements of the American Revolutionary War .
Warren had been commissioned a Major General in the colony 's  मिलिशिया shortly पहले the जून 17 , 1775 बैटल  of Bunker Hill .
Rather than exercising his rank , Warren served in the battle as a private soldier ,  और थी मारे in कॉम्बैट जब अंग्रेजों सैनिकों stormed the redoubt atop  Breed 's Hill .
His death , immortalized in John Trumbull 's painting , The Death of General Warren at the Battle of Bunker 's Hill , June 17 , 1775 , galvanized the  विद्रोही शक्तियां , और he रै महरूम स्मरणीय in अनेक प्लेस names in the संयुक्त राज्य  .
STM image of self-assembled supramolecular  जंजीरों of the सशुल्क सेमीकंडक्टर quinacridone on ग्रेफाइट  .
An organic semiconductor is an  सशुल्क सामग्री साथ सेमीकंडक्टर गुण , कि is , साथ  an electrical conductivity between that of insulators and that of metals .
सिंगल अणुओं , छोटी कड़ी ( oligomers ) और  organic polymers can be semiconductive .
Semiconducting small molecules ( aromatic hydrocarbons ) include the  polycyclic खुशबूदार यौगिकों pentacene , anthracene , और  rubrene .
Polymeric  सशुल्क semiconductors शामिल बहु ( 3-hexylthiophene ) , बहु ( p-phenylene vinylene  ) , as well as polyacetylene and its derivatives .
There are two major  अतिव्यापी वर्ग of सशुल्क semiconductors  .
These are  सशुल्क charge-transfer देवालय और विभिन्न linear-backbone  conductive polymers derived from polyacetylene .
Linear backbone organic semiconductors  शामिल polyacetylene itself और इसके  derivatives polypyrrole , and polyaniline .
At least locally , charge-transfer  देवालय प्रायः प्रदर्शनी समान conduction mechanisms to अकार्बनिक semiconductors  .
Such  mechanisms उठता इससे the उपस्थिति of  hole and electron conduction layers separated by a band gap .
While such classic mechanisms are important locally , as with inorganic  amorphous semiconductors , tunnelling , स्थानीयकृत राज्य , गतिशीलता गैप , और phonon -assisted hopping भी significantly योगदान to  conduction , particularly in polyacetylenes .
Like inorganic  semiconductors , सशुल्क semiconductors  can be doped .
Organic  semiconductors susceptible to doping ऐसे as polyaniline  ( Ormecon ) and are also known as organic metals .
Typical current  वाहक in सशुल्क semiconductors  are holes and electrons in π-bonds .
लगभग सब सशुल्क solids  are insulators .
लकिन जब उनके constituent अणुओं  have π-conjugate systems , electrons can move via π-electron cloud overlaps , especially by hopping , tunnelling and related mechanisms .
Polycyclic aromatic  hydrocarbons और phthalocyanine नमक crystals हैं उदाहरण  of this type of organic semiconductor .
Mainly due  to कम गतिशीलता , भी unpaired electrons may be stable  in charge-transfer complexes .
Such  unpaired electrons can  function as current carriers .
This type of  सेमीकंडक्टर is भी प्राप्त by pairing an इलेक्ट्रॉन  donor molecule with an electron acceptor molecule .
Female ejaculation is the expulsion of fluid by human females from the  paraurethral नलिकाएं through और around the मादा urethra दौरान or पहले  an orgasm .
It is also known colloquially as gushing or squirting , although these are  माना to be अलग phenomena in कुछ शोध publications  .
The exact source and nature of the fluid continue to be a  टॉपिक of बहस among चिकित्सा पेशेवर , जिससे is भी सम्बन्धित to संदेह  over the existence of the G-Spot .
The FIFA Women  's संसार कप is an अंतरराष्ट्रीय संघ फ़ुटबॉल प्रतियोगिता लडे  by the senior women 's national teams of the members of Fédération Internationale de Football Association ( FIFA ) , the sport 's global governing body .
The championship has been awarded every four  सालो चूंकि the inaugural टूर्नामेंट in  1991 .
जापानी जीती the 2011 टूर्नामेंट  in a penalty shootout .
The current format of the  टूर्नामेंट involves 16 टीमों स्पर्धा लिये the शीर्षक at venues भीतर the मेजबान स्वदेश ( s ) over  a period of about three weeks ; – this phase is often called the World Cup Finals .
A qualification phase , which currently takes  प्लेस over the preceding तीन सालो , is प्रयुक्त to determine जिससे टीमों qualify लिये the टूर्नामेंट  together with the host nation ( s ) .
The FIFA Women 's World Cup is recognized as the most important International competition in women 's football and is played  amongst महिलाओं 's नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल टीमों of the सदस्य राज्य of फीफा , the खेल 's वैश्विक शासी  body .
The first Women 's World Cup tournament , named the Women 's World Championship , was held  in 1991 , sixty-one सालो बाद the मेन 's पहला  FIFA World Cup tournament in 1930 .
The six World Cup  tournaments have महरूम जीती by चार अलग  national teams .
The next World  कप होगा be hosted by कनाडा  in 2015 .
Scorpions is a young adult novel written by Walter Dean Myers  , पहला प्रकाशित in the संयुक्त राज्य by हार्पर & पंक्ति on जून 20 ,  1988 .
Front page of a 17th century Hebrew Bible by  जोसेफ athias , अभी at बेथ hatefutsoth  , Israel
'Son of man ' is the  अनुवाद of विभिन्न यहूदी और यूनानी वाक्यांश  used in both the Hebrew Bible and the New Testament .
It has diverse meanings , ranging from a normal  इंसान होने to a prophesied अनन्त , दैवी  ruler .
The Hebrew expression `` son of man '' ( בן–אדם i.e . ben-'adam )  appears एक सौ और सात टाइम्स in  the Hebrew Bible .
This is the most common Hebrew construction for the  एकवचन लकिन is प्रयुक्त ज़्यादातर in ezekiel ( 93 टाइम्स ) और 14 टाइम्स  elsewhere .
In thirty two  मामले the phrase appears in इंटरमीडिएट  plural form `` sons of men '' , i.e . human beings .
As generally interpreted by  यहूदियों , it denotes humankind  generally .
In the Koine Greek of the New Testament , `` the son of  man '' is invariably प्रयुक्त as `` ὁ υἱὸς τοὺ  ἀνθρώπου '' with a definite article .
The use of the definite article in `` the son of man  '' in the ईसाई gospels is अनोखा , और पहले इसके उपयोग वहीँ , no रिकॉर्ड of इसके उपयोग in कोई of the surviving यूनानी दस्तावेज़  of antiquity exist .
Geza Vermes has stated that  `` the बेटे of man '' in the ईसाई gospels is  unrelated to Hebrew Bible usages .
In Christian usage , unlike the Son of God title , which has been an  अनिवार्य तत्व of ईसाई creeds चूंकि the अपोस्टोलिक आयु , the उदघोषणा of  `` Jesus as the Son of man '' has never been an article of faith in Christianity .
The interpretation of  the उपयोग of `` the बेटे of man '' in the नई वसीयत रै remained चुनौतीपूर्ण और बाद  150 years of debate no consensus on the issue has emerged among scholars .
निपुण of foxhounds लीड the फ़ील्ड इससे powderham किला  in Devon , England , with the hounds in front .
Fox hunting is an  कार्यकलाप involving the ट्रैकिंग , पीछा , और sometimes हत्या of a फॉक्स , traditionally a रेड फॉक्स , by प्रशिक्षित  foxhounds or other scent hounds , and a group of unarmed followers led by a master of foxhounds , who follow the hounds on foot or on horseback .
Fox hunting originated in the form practised until recently in the United  किंगडम in the 16th सदी , लकिन is practised सब over the संसार , सहित in ऑस्ट्रेलिया , कनाडा , फ़्रांस , आयरलैंड  , Italy and the United States .
In Australia , the term also refers to the hunting of  foxes साथ firearms समान to spotlighting or हिरण  hunting .
In much of the world hunting in general is understood to relate to any game animals or weapons ( e.g. , deer hunting with bow and arrow  ) ; in ब्रिटेन और आयरलैंड , `` शिकार '' बगैर योग्यता implies फॉक्स शिकार ( or अन्य फ़ॉर्म of शिकार साथ हाउंडs- beagling , स्टैग शिकार , मिंक शिकार  , drag hunting or hunting the clean boot ) as described here .
The sport is controversial , particularly in the UK , where it was banned in Scotland in  2002 , और in इंग्लैण्ड और वेल्स in नवम्बर 2004 ( विधि enforced इससे  February 2005 ) , though shooting foxes as vermin remained legal .
Proponents of fox hunting view it as an important part of rural culture and useful for  कारण of संरक्षण और pest कंट्रोल , जबकि प्रतिद्वंद्वियों argue कि it is बेदर्द और  unnecessary .
Tobacco advertising is the advertising of  तम्बाकू उत्पाद or उपयोग ( typically सिगरेट धूम्रपान ) by the तम्बाकू उद्योग through a किस्में  of media including sponsorship , particularly of sporting events .
It is now  एक of the सबसे अत्यधिक  regulated forms of marketing .
Some or all forms  of तम्बाकू विज्ञापन हैं बैन in अनेक देशों  .
Bally  technologies , inc. is a निर्माता of स्लॉट मशीने  and other gaming technology based in Las Vegas , Nevada .
The company was  संस्थापित in 1968 as उन्नत पेटेंट  Technology .
It eventually  बदला इसके नाम to गठबंधन गेमिंग और acquired , in 1996 , बल्ली  Gaming International , a former division of Bally Manufacturing .
In 2006 , the entire company  अपनाया the बल्ली नाम , a ट्रेडमार्क कि originated  in 1932 by the Bally Manufacturing Corporation .
Gustave Doré 's  engravings illustrated the दैवी कॉमेडी (  1861–1868 ) ; here , Dante is lost in Canto 1 of the Inferno .
Inferno ( Italian for  `` नरक `` ) is the पहला भाग of दांते एलीगियरी 's  14th-century epic poem Divine Comedy .
It is  followed by purgatorio  and Paradiso .
It is an allegory telling of the journey of Dante  through नरक , हिदायत by the रोमन कवि वर्जिल .
In the  कविता , नरक is चित्रित as नौ वृत्त of कष्ट  located within the Earth .
Allegorically  , the दैवी कॉमेडी represents the यात्रा of the आत्मा towards  God , with the Inferno describing the recognition and rejection of sin .
Smirnoff is a brand of vodka  स्वामित्व और उत्पादित by the अंग्रेजों कम्पनी diageo  .
The Smirnoff brand began with a  वोदका डिस्टिलरी संस्थापित in मास्को by pyotr arsenievich smirnov  ( 1831–1898 ) .
It is now distributed in  130 देशों .
It is produced in several  देशों सहित इण्डिया , आयरलैंड , इटली , the संयुक्त किंगडम  and the United States .
Smirnoff products include vodka , flavoured vodka ,  और malt पेय .
in कूच 2006 , diageo उत्तर अमेरिका claimed कि स्मरनॉफ वोदका थी  the best-selling distilled spirit brand in the world .
Big Brown ( foaled April 10 , 2005  in केंटकी ) is a रिटायर्ड चैंपियन अमरीकी thoroughbred racehorse और विजेता  of the 2008 Kentucky Derby and 2008 Preakness Stakes .
Bred by Dr. Gary B.  नैप 's monticule खेतो in lexington , केंटकी , he जीती  his first five race starts .
He was sired by Grade III  विजेता boundary , a बेटे of उत्तर अमरीकी चैंपियन  sire Danzig , a son of Northern Dancer .
Big Brown  's बांध थी mien , भी a पोती of उत्तरी नर्तकी  through her sire , Nureyev .
The Serenity Prayer is  the आम नाम लिये an originally बेनाम  prayer by the American theologian Reinhold Niebuhr ( 1892–1971 ) .
It has been adopted  by alcoholics बेनाम और अन्य twelve-step  programs .
The best-known form is : God ,  ग्रान्ट me the serenity to accept the बाते i  can not change,
The courage to  बदलें the बाते  I can,
And wisdom to  जान the अंतर  .
The Declaration and  resolves of the पहला महाद्वीपीय कॉंग्रेस ( भी ज्ञात as the घोषणा of औपनिवेशिक अधिकारों , or the  Declaration of Rights ) , was a statement adopted by the First Continental Congress on October 14 , 1774 , in response to the Intolerable Acts passed by the British Parliament .
The Declaration outlined colonial objections to the  असहनीय अधिनियमों , सूचीबद्ध a औपनिवेशिक विधेयक of  rights , and provided a detailed list of grievances .
It was  समान to the घोषणा of अधिकारों और grievances , passed  by the Stamp Act Congress a decade earlier .
The Declaration concluded with an outline of Congress 's plans :  to डालें into a बहिष्कार of अंग्रेजों व्यापार ( the महाद्वीपीय संघ ) जबतक उनके grievances यहूद redressed , to प्रकाशित  addresses to the people of Great Britain and British America , and to send a petition to the King .
पल्स दबाव is the दबाव कि is लगा  when feeling the pulse .
Measured in millimeters of mercury (  mmhg ) , the दबाव अंतर between the systolic और diastolic pressures is the दबाव बदलें to बनाएँ the पल्स  , which is the pulse pressure .
If resting blood  दबाव is ( systolic/diastolic ) 120/80 millimeters of पारा ( mmhg ) ,  pulse pressure is 40 .
The Hills is a reality television series which originally aired on MTV from May 31 , 2006  जबतक जुलाई 13 , 2010  .
The show uses a reality television format , following the personal lives of several young adults living in Los Angeles  , कैलिफ़ोर्निया , लकिन tends towards a कथा स्वरूप अधिक commonly मिला in scripted जाति ऐसे  as soap operas .
The series originally followed the personal life of former Laguna Beach star Lauren Conrad  और उसके मित्रों ' नई जीवनदान  in Los Angeles .
After five seasons , Conrad left the series  और थी replaced by another पूर्व लगुना बीच स्टार , kristin cavallari , शुरूआत in the दूसरी हाफ of  the fifth season .
The  श्रेणी concluded at the  end of the sixth season .
Entertainment Weekly ranked The Hills 82nd on their  सूची of `` the 100 बेहतरीन shows of the पिछला 25 सालो , '' stating कि the श्रेणी  was a `` New Classic . ''
AOL TV  पुकारा it tv 's biggest  Guilty Pleasure .
The series  premiered in अनुप्रयोग in the पतन of  2009 alongside Laguna Beach : The Real Orange County .
In poker , bad beat is a  subjective पद लिये a हाथ in जिससे a खिलाड़ी साथ कया appear  to be strong cards nevertheless loses .
It most often occurs where one player bets the clearly  stronger हाथ और उनके प्रतिद्वन्दी makes a ग़रीब कॉल कि आखिरकार ``  hits '' and wins .
There is no consensus among poker  खिलाड़ी as to कया exactly constitutes a ख़राब ताल और प्रायः खिलाड़ी होगा असहमत  about whether a particular hand was a bad beat .
The goldfish  ( carassius auratus auratus ) is a freshwater मछली  in the family Cyprinidae of order Cypriniformes .
It was one of the earliest fish to  be domesticated , और is  one of the most commonly kept aquarium fish .
A relatively small member of the carp  परिवार ( जिससे भी शामिल the कोई कार्प और the crucian कार्प  ) , the goldfish is a domesticated version of a less-colorful carp ( Carassius auratus ) native to east Asia .
It was first domesticated in China more than a thousand years ago ,  और अनेक पृथक breeds have चूंकि महरूम  developed .
Goldfish breeds vary greatly in size , body shape , fin configuration and  coloration ( विभिन्न combinations of श्वेत , पीला , नारंगी , रेड , भूरा , और ब्लैक हैं ज्ञात ) .
uncooked  Rouladen
Rouladen ( or Rinderroulade , singular : roulade ) is a German meat roulade  प्रायः consisting of बेकन , प्याज , सरसों और अचार लपेटा in thinly sliced बीफ जिससे  is then cooked .
In some countries  , the roulade is भी ज्ञात as  `` beef olive '' .
Beef or veal is used as meat though some food scholars tend  to मानना कि the असली संस्करण  was probably venison or pork , and pork is still popular in some areas .
The  बीफ rouladen as we जान उन्हें आज have  become popular over the last century .
the काटें is प्रायः topside बीफ  or silverside since this is the cheaper cut .
The more expensive  संस्करण होता be the गोलाकार स्टीक  , also known as rump steak .
the मांस is काटें into  large , thin slices .
The filling is a mixture of smoked and cooked pork belly , chopped onions and chopped pickles ( gurken )  जिससे is at टाइम्स varied by adding minced मांस , सॉसेज मांस , पाइन nuts  and mustard .
The  मिश्रण varies इससे  region to region .
Rouladen are traditionally served  लिये डिनर .
Red wine is often  परोसा साथ इस डिश  .
ठेठ  eukaryotic cell .
Cellular respiration is the set of the metabolic reactions and processes that take place in the  कोशिकाएं of जीवों to बदलें biochemical उर्जा इससे nutrients into एडीनोसिन ट्राइफॉस्फेट  ( ATP ) , and then release waste products .
The reactions involved in respiration are catabolic  प्रतिक्रियाएँ , जिससे ब्रेक विशाल अणुओं into छोटी ones , releasing उर्जा in the प्रक्रम  as weak so-called `` high-energy '' bonds are replaced by stronger bonds in the products .
Respiration is one of the key ways a cell gains  उपयोगी उर्जा to ईंधन सेल्यूलर  activity .
Cellular respiration is considered  an ऊष्माक्षेपी रेडॉक्स प्रतिक्रिया  .
The overall  प्रतिक्रिया is टूटा into अनेक छोटी ones जब it occurs in the देह  , most of which are redox reactions themselves .
Although technically , cellular respiration is  a दहन प्रतिक्रिया , it  clearly does not resemble one when it occurs in a living cell .
इस अंतर is क्युकी it occurs  in many separate steps .
While the overall reaction is a  दहन प्रतिक्रिया , no सिंगल प्रतिक्रिया कि comprises it is a  combustion reaction .
Nutrients that are commonly used by animal and plant cells in respiration include sugar , amino acids and  वसीय acids , और a आम oxidizing एजेंट ( इलेक्ट्रॉन acceptor ) is आणविक ऑक्सीजन ( o2  ) .
The energy stored in ATP ( its third phosphate group is weakly bonded to the rest of the molecule and is cheaply broken allowing stronger bonds  to रूप , thereby transferring उर्जा लिये उपयोग by the कोशिका ) can तब be प्रयुक्त to ड्राइव प्रक्रियाओं requiring उर्जा , सहित जैवसंश्लेषण , locomotion or परिवहन of अणुओं आरपार कोशिका झिल्लियों  .
Countries by 2011  जीडीपी ( नाममात्र ) according to the  CIA World Factbook .
This article includes a list of countries in the world sorted by their gross domestic product ( GDP ) , the market value of all  फाइनल goods और सेवाएं इससे a स्वदेश in a दिए साल  .
The GDP dollar estimates  प्रस्तुत यहाँ हैं गणना at मार्केट or सरकारी  official exchange rates .
Several economies which are not considered to be countries ( world , the  eu , और कुछ निर्भर territories ) हैं शामिल in the सूचियाँ क्युकी वे appear  in the sources .
These economies are not  क्रमित in the चार्ट यहाँ , लकिन हैं सूचीबद्ध  where applicable .
The figures presented  यहाँ do नहीं लो into खाता मतभेद in the लागत of जीना in अलग देशों , और the परिणाम can  vary greatly from one year to another based on fluctuations in the exchange rates of the country 's currency .
Such fluctuations may change a country 's ranking from one year to the  अगला , भी हालांकि वे प्रायः मेक छोटी or no अंतर  to the standard of living of its population .
इसलिए ये आंकड़े  should be used with caution .
Some  countries/regions may have नागरिकों जिससे हैं on औसत  wealthy .
These countries/regions could appear  in इस सूची as having a छोटी  GDP .
This would be because the country/region listed has a small population , and therefore  छोटी कुल अर्थव्यवस्था ; the जीडीपी is गणना as the जनसांख्यिकी  times the wealth per capita .
Comparisons of national  माल हैं भी अक्सर बना on the आधार of खरीदना शक्ति पैरिटी ( ppp ) , to  adjust for differences in the cost of living in different countries .
( See List of  देशों by जीडीपी (  PPP ) )
PPP largely removes the exchange rate problem , but has its own drawbacks ; it does not reflect  the मान of आर्थिक आउटपुट in अंतरराष्ट्रीय व्यापार , और it भी  requires more estimation than nominal GDP .
On the whole , PPP per capita  आंकड़े हैं अधिक narrowly स्प्रेड than नाममात्र  GDP per capita figures .
The  पहला सूची शामिल आंकड़ा compiled by the संयुक्त  Nations Statistics Division for 2011 .
The second list largely includes data ( estimate )  compiled by the अंतरराष्ट्रीय मौद्रिक  Fund for 2012 .
The third list shows the World Bank 's mostly 2011  estimates , और the चौथी सूची शामिल ज़्यादातर 2012 estimates  from the CIA World Factbook .
Lapping is a  machining प्रक्रम , in जिससे दो सतहों हैं मला साथ साथ an अक्खड़ between  them , by hand movement or by way of a machine .
This can  लो दो  forms .
The first type of lapping ( traditionally called grinding ) , typically involves rubbing a brittle material such as glass against a surface such as iron or glass itself ( also known as the `` lap '' or  पीस औजार ) साथ an अक्खड़ ऐसे as एल्यूमिनियम ऑक्साइड , जौहरियों 's रूज , optician 's रूज , एमरी , सिलिकॉन कार्बाइड , डायमंड , etc. , in between  them .
This  produces microscopic conchoidal fractures as the अक्खड़  rolls about between the two surfaces and removes material from both .
The other form of lapping involves a  softer सामग्री ऐसे as पिच or a सिरेमिक लिये the गोद ,  which is `` charged '' with the abrasive .
The lap is then used to cut  a harder material—the workpiece  .
The abrasive embeds within the softer material which  holds it और permits it to स्कोर आरपार  and cut the harder material .
Taken to a  महीन सीमा , इस होगा उपज a polished सतह ऐसे as साथ a पॉलिशिंग  cloth on an automobile , or a polishing cloth or polishing pitch upon glass or steel .
Taken to the ultimate limit , with the aid of accurate  interferometry और specialized पॉलिशिंग मशीने or skilled हाथ पॉलिशिंग , lensmakers can उपज सतहों कि हैं चपटा to बेहतर than 30 nanometers  .
This is one twentieth of the wavelength  of लाइट इससे the commonly प्रयुक्त 632.8 nm हीलियम नियॉन  laser light source .
Surfaces this flat can be  molecularly बंधुआ ( optically contacted ) by bringing  them together under the right conditions .
( This is not the same as the  wringing प्रभाव of जोहानसन ब्लॉक  , although it is similar ) .
The term `` America 's Team '' is a popular  उपनाम in the संयुक्त राज्य कि refers to the डलास cowboys  in the National Football League .
The nickname originated with the team 's 1978 highlight film , where the narrator opens with the following introduction  : the पद is पहचाना और प्रायः प्रयुक्त by मीडिया आउटलेट , सहित ईएसपीएन , याहू ! , एचबीओ खेल ,  and Sports Illustrated .
My Babysitter 's a Vampire ( French : Ma  gardienne est un पिशाच ) is a 2011 कनाडाई टेलीविज़न श्रेणी , आधारित on the टेलीविज़न फिल्मी of  the same name .
In Canada , the series premiered in French on Télétoon on February  28 , 2011 , in अंग्रेज़ी on teletoon on कूच 14 , 2011 ,  and on Disney Channel in the United States on June 27 , 2011 .
The  दिखाएँ थी निर्मित by भैस tv , creators  of 6teen and Total Drama .
The show follows Ethan Morgan ( Matthew Knight ) , who , in  the टेलीविज़न फिल्मी , learns कि उसके दाई सारा ( वैनेसा मॉर्गन  ) is a vampire .
In the film , he learns he is able to have  visions और उसके बेहतरीन dost बेनी वीयर ( atticus मिशेल ) is  a spellmaster .
The series follows the three as they take on supernatural forces and have adventures , with  occasional सहायता इससे fellow vampires रोरी ( cameron कैनेडी ) और एरिका ( केट टॉड ) , जबकि dealing  with the troubles of regular high school life .
A second season was confirmed to start production in September 2011 and it  पहला premiered on डिज़्नी चैनल on जून 29 , 2012 , it premiered on teletoon  September 6 , 2012 .
Télétoon  प्रारंभ featuring ऋतु  2 sneak-peak episodes on October 28 , 2012 and premiered it on January 10 , 2013
Dodge B Series utility  circa 1950 , चलित by  Albert Namatjira
A pickup truck or pick-up , often simply referred to as  a पिकअप , is a लाइट मोटर गाडी साथ an open-top , पश्च  cargo area ( bed ) .
In North America , the term pickup is used for light trucks with a lighter duty chassis and factory  निर्मित , एकीकृत bed , as खूब as लिये coupé यूटिलिटी वाहनों , प्रायः आधारित on a निजी  car chassis , but also often on a special dedicated chassi for such use .
Some countries have their own terms similar to pickup ,  ऐसे as ute in ऑस्ट्रेलिया और नई जीलैंड , or bakkie  in South Africa .
Large pickup trucks are  somewhat विरल in यूरोपीय , जहाँ वैन और लाइट  lorries are commonly used for similar roles .
The President of the United States  of अमेरिका ( potus ) is the सिर of राज्य और सिर of सरकारी  of the United States .
The president  लीड the कार्यपालिका शाखा of the संघीय सरकारी और is  the commander-in-chief of the United States Armed Forces .
Article II of the U.S. Constitution vests the executive power of the United States in the president and charges him with the execution of federal law , alongside the  जिम्मेदारी of appointing संघीय कार्यपालिका , राजनयिक , नियामक , और न्यायिक अधिकारियों , और concluding treaties साथ विदेशी  powers , with the advice and consent of the Senate .
The president is further empowered to grant federal pardons and reprieves ,  और to convene और adjourn either or दोनो घरों of कॉंग्रेस अंतर्गत असाधारण  circumstances .
Since the founding of the United States , the power of the president and the federal government have grown substantially and each modern president , despite possessing no formal legislative powers  परे हस्ताक्षर or vetoing congressionally passed बिल्स , is largely जिम्मेदार लिये dictating the विधान कार्यसूची of उसके पार्टी और the विदेशी और घरेलू नीति  of the United States .
The  अध्यक्ष is अक्सर वर्णित as the सबसे  powerful person in the world .
The president is indirectly elected by the people through the Electoral College to a four-year term , and is one of only two nationally elected  संघीय अधिकारियों , the अन्य होने the वाइस अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त  States .
The Twenty-second Amendment  , अपनाया in 1951 , prohibits anyone इससे कभी होने  elected to the presidency for a third full term .
It also prohibits a person from  होने निर्वाचित to the प्रेसिडेंसी अधिक than एकबार if कि व्यक्ति previously था परोसा as अध्यक्ष , or एक्टिंग  president , for more than two years of another person 's term as president .
In all , 43 individuals have  परोसा 55 four-year  terms .
On January 20 , 2009 , Barack  ओबामा became the 44th और वर्तमान अध्यक्ष  .
On November 6 ,  2012 , he थी re-elected और is अनुसूचित  to serve until January 20 , 2017 .
Bottled  खनिज जल
Bottled  जल is पीने जल ( e.g. , खूब जल , आसुत जल , खनिज  water , or spring water ) packaged in plastic or glass water bottles .
बोतलबंद जल may be कार्बोनेटेड  or not .
Sizes range from small single serving bottles  to विशाल carboys लिये जल coolers  .
Map of the major rivers ,  झीलों , और टंकी in इण्डिया
Map  प्रर्दशित नदियाँ  and flood prone areas in India
Rivers of India play an important  भूमिका in the जीवनदान of  the Indian people .
The river systems provide irrigation , potable  जल , सस्ती परिवहन , विद्युत , और the livelihoods लिये a  large number of people all over the country and to rural areas .
This easily explains why nearly all the major  शहरों of इण्डिया हैं स्तिथ by the बैंको of  rivers .
The rivers also have an important role in  हिन्दू mythology और  are considered holy by all Hindus in the country .
Seven  प्रमुख नदियाँ साथ साथ  their numerous tributaries make up the river system of India .
Most of the rivers  डालना उनके waters into the खाड़ी of बंगाल ; however , कुछ of the नदियाँ  whose courses take them through the western part of the country and towards the east of the state of Himachal Pradesh empty into the Arabian Sea .
Parts of Ladakh , northern parts of the Aravlli range and the arid  भाग of the थार मरुस्थल have अंतर्देशीय नाले  .
Dr.Francis Buchanan surveyed the  पाठ्यक्रम of the नदियाँ of इण्डिया साथ साथ उनके tributaries और शाखाओं in  1810-11 AD and presented a minute account of it .
The shifting  of the पाठ्यक्रम और bed  over the centuries is very remarkable .
Many of the channels  उल्लेखित in कि सर्वेक्षण have अभी become मुर्दे , सूखी or भी  extinct .
All major rivers of India originate from one of  the तीन प्रमुख watersheds  :
the हिमालय और  the Karakoram ranges
विंध्य और satpura सीमाएँ  and Chotanagpur plateau in central India
Sahyadri or  पश्चिमी ghats in पश्चिमी  India
The Bretton Woods system of monetary  प्रबन्धन स्थापित the नियम लिये वाणिज्यिक और वित्तीय संबंध among the संसार 's प्रमुख  industrial states in the mid-20th century .
The Bretton  वुड्स प्रणाली थी the पहला उदाहरण of a fully negotiated मौद्रिक  order intended to govern monetary relations among independent nation-states .
Preparing to rebuild the international economic system as World War II was still raging , 730 delegates from all 44 Allied nations gathered at  the माउंट वॉशिंगटन होटल in bretton वुड्स , नई हैम्पशायर , संयुक्त राज्य , लिये the संयुक्त राष्ट्र मौद्रिक और वित्तीय सम्मेलन  .
The delegates deliberated during 1–22 July 1944 ,  और हस्ताक्षरित the अनुबंध on इसके फाइनल  day .
Setting up a system of rules , institutions , and procedures to regulate the international monetary system ,  the planners at bretton वुड्स स्थापित the अंतरराष्ट्रीय मौद्रिक निधि ( imf ) और the अंतरराष्ट्रीय बैंको लिये पुनर्निर्माण और विकास ( ibrd ) , जिससे  today is part of the World Bank Group .
These organizations became operational in 1945 after a sufficient  क्रमांक of देशों था ratified the  agreement .
The chief  सुविधाएँ of the bretton वुड्स प्रणाली यहूद an दायित्व लिये प्रत्येक देश to अपनाना a मौद्रिक नीति कि कायम  the exchange rate by tying its currency to the U.S. dollar and the ability of the IMF to bridge temporary imbalances of payments .
On 15 August 1971 , the United States  unilaterally terminated convertibility of the us $ to सुनहरा  .
This brought the Bretton Woods system to an end and saw  the डालर become fiat करेंसी  .
This action , referred to  as the निक्सन शॉक , निर्मित the हालात in जिससे the संयुक्त राज्य डालर  became a reserve currency used by many states .
At the same time  , अनेक फिक्स्ड मुद्राएँ ( ऐसे as gbp , लिये उदाहरण ) ,  also became free floating .
Ducati Motor Holding S.p.A. is an  इतालवी कम्पनी कि डिजाइन और manufactures  motorcycles .
Headquartered in Bologna , Italy , Ducati is owned by Audi through its  इतालवी subsidiary लेम्बोर्गिनी .
A credit score is a numerical expression based on a statistical analysis of a  व्यक्ति 's क्रेडिट फाइलें , to represent the creditworthiness  of that person .
A credit score is primarily based on credit  रपट सूचना typically sourced इससे  credit bureaus .
Lenders , such as banks and credit card  कंपनियाँ , उपयोग क्रेडिट स्कोर to evaluate the संभावित रिस्क posed by lending धन to उपभोक्ता और to mitigate नुकसान due to ख़राब कर्ज़  .
Lenders use credit scores to  determine जो qualifies लिये a ऋण , at कया ब्याज  rate , and what credit limits .
lenders भी उपयोग क्रेडिट स्कोर to determine  which customers are likely to bring in the most revenue .
The use of credit or identity  स्कोरिंग prior to authorizing अभिगम or  granting credit is an implementation of a trusted system .
Credit scoring  is नहीं सीमित to  banks .
Other organizations , such as  मोबाईल फोन कंपनियाँ , बीमे कंपनियाँ , जमींदार , और सरकारी विभाग employ  the same techniques .
Credit scoring also has a lot of  ओवरलैप साथ आंकड़ा खनन , जिससे उपयोग अनेक समान तकनीकों  .
These techniques combine  हज़ारों of कारकों लकिन वे हैं अधिक or कम  similar or the same .
The seven SI base units  और the interdependency of उनके परिभाषाएं : लिये उदाहरण , to निकालें the परिभाषा of the मीटर इससे the गति of लाइट , the परिभाषा  of the second must be known while the ampere and candela are both dependent on the definition of energy which in turn is defined in terms of length , mass and time .
The International System of Units ( SI ) defines seven units of  माप as a मौलिक नियत इससे जिससे सब अन्य si इकाई हैं निकला  .
ये si आधार इकाई और  their physical quantities are:
metre for  लंबाई ( us अंग्रेज़ी  : meter )
किलोग्राम लिये द्रव्यमान ( नोट : नहीं  the gram )
second  लिये समय
ampere for  इलेक्ट्रिक वर्तमान
केल्विन लिये तापमान
candela for  चमकदार तीव्रता
mole for the  राशि of पदार्थ  .
The SI  आधार quantities रूप a नियत of mutually स्वतंत्र  dimensions as required by dimensional analysis commonly employed in science and technology .
However , in a  दिए realization of ये इकाई वे may खूब be interdependent  , i.e . defined in terms of each other .
The names of SI units are written  in लोअरकेस वर्ण ( the 'degree  Celsius ' meets this rule , as 'degree ' is the unit , and 'Celsius ' is a modifier ) .
The symbols of units are written in  लोअरकेस ( e.g . मीटर रै the प्रतीक m ) , मगर कि प्रतीकों लिये इकाई नामित  after persons are written with an initial capital letter ( e.g. , the hertz has the uppercase symbol Hz ) .
Many  अन्य इकाई , ऐसे as the लीटर ( us अंग्रेज़ी  : liter ) , are formally not part of the SI , but are accepted for use with SI .
स्मारक canyon
Colorado National Monument ( locally referred to as The  स्मारक ) is a भाग of the नेशनल पार्क सेवा निकट the नगर of ग्रैंड जंक्शन  , Colorado .
Spectacular canyons cut deep into sandstone  और भी granite–gneiss–schist चट्टान formations  , in some areas .
This is an area of desert land high on the Colorado  पठार , साथ पिनियन और juniper वनों  on the plateau .
The park hosts a  चौड़ी दायरा of वन्यजीव , सहित red-tailed चीलों और सुनहरी  eagles , ravens , jays , desert bighorn sheep , and coyotes .
Activities include hiking , horseback riding , road  bicycling , और दर्शनीय ड्राइव ; a आगंतुक बीच on  the west side contains a natural history museum and gift shop .
There are magnificent views from trails and the  रिम चट्टान ड्राइव , जिससे हवाएँ साथ  the plateau .
Nearby are the Book Cliffs , and the largest flat-topped  पहाड़ in the संसार , the  Grand Mesa .
Its feature attraction is Monument Canyon , which runs the width of the park , and includes rock formations such as  स्वतंत्रता स्मारक , the चुंबन युगल , और कोक चूल्हों  .
The monument includes 20,500 acres ( 32 square  मील ) , much of जिससे रै महरूम अनुशंसित to कॉंग्रेस लिये नामांकन  as wilderness .
left to right :  यूटिलिटी वर्दी , ब्लू पोशाक वर्दी , सेवा वर्दी  , and Evening Dress uniforms
The Uniforms of the United States  समुद्री corps serve to फर्क marines  from members of other services .
Among current uniforms in the United States Armed  शक्तियां , the marines ' वर्दी have महरूम in सेवा  the longest .
The Marine Dress Blue uniform has , with few  परिवर्तन , महरूम worn in essentially इसके वर्तमान रूप चूंकि  the 19th century .
North American telephone area codes 419 and 567 serve the northwest  quadrant of the u.S. राज्य  of Ohio .
The largest city served by  ये क्षेत्रफल कोड is टोलेडो ( और इसके उपनगरों of हॉलैंड , maumee , northwood , ऑरेगॉन , ओटावा पहाड़ियाँ , perrysburg  , Rossford , Sylvania , Swanton , Waterville , and Whitehouse ) .
Other cities served by these area codes  शामिल एडीए , ashland , bellevue , bluffton , बोलिंग ग्रीन , ब्रायन , bucyrus , celina , क्लाइड , crestline , defiance , delphos , एडिसन , erastus , findlay , fostoria , fremont  , Galion , Kenton , Lima , Mansfield , Mount Gilead , Napoleon , Norwalk , Oak Harbor , Port Clinton , Sandusky , Shelby , St. Marys , Tiffin , Upper Sandusky , Van Wert , Wapakoneta , Wauseon , Willard .
Other areas served include the Lake Erie  आइलैंड्स उत्तर of बंदरगाहों क्लिंटन और वेस्ट of sandusky  .
The main area code , 419 , was created as  एक of the असली क्षेत्रफल कोड in अक्तूबर 1947 ; the ओवरले क्षेत्रफल कोड 567  was created on January 1 , 2002 .
despite the उपस्थिति of टोलेडो , the राज्य 's fourth-largest नगर , 419 थी the पिछला of ओहियो  's original four area codes to have been split or overlaid .
Mickey Leroy Gilley ( born March 9 , 1936  ) is an अमरीकी देश म्यूज़िक सिंगर और संगीतकार .
Although he started out singing  straight-up देश और पश्चिमी सामग्री in the 1970s , he स्थानांतरित towards a अधिक पॉप -friendly ध्वनि in the 1980s , bringing उसे further कामयाबी on नहीं बस the देश चार्ट  , but the pop charts as well .
Among his biggest hits are `` Room Full of Roses , '' `` Do n't the Girls All Get  prettier at closing समय , '' और the रीमेक of the आत्मा hit `` स्टैंड  by Me `` .
He is also the  cousin of जेरी ली लुईस  , Carl McVoy , Jim Gilley and Jimmy Swaggart .
According to the Federal  विमानन प्रशासन , gilley is a licensed पायलट , जो holds an यंत्र दरजा साथ वाणिज्यिक पायलट privileges  for multi-engine airplanes , as well as private pilot privileges for single engine aircraft .
The September 11 attacks ( also referred to as September 11  , सितंबर 11th , or 9/11 ) यहूद a श्रेणी of चार समन्वित आतंकवादी हमले शुभारम्भ by the इस्लामी आतंकवादी समूह al-qaeda  upon the United States in New York City and the Washington , D.C. area on September 11 , 2001 .
चार यात्री airliners यहूद hijacked  by 19 al-Qaeda terrorists so they could be flown into buildings in suicide attacks .
Two of those planes , American Airlines Flight 11 and United Airlines Flight 175 , were crashed into the North and South towers ,  क्रमशः , of the संसार व्यापार बीच जटिल in नई यॉर्क नगर  .
Within two hours , both towers collapsed with debris and the resulting  फ़ायर causing आंशिक or पूरा पतन of सब अन्य इमारतें in the wtc जटिल , as खूब as प्रमुख  damage to ten other large surrounding structures .
A third plane , American Airlines Flight 77 , was  क्रैश into the प्रस्तुतीकरण ( the मुख्यालय of the संयुक्त राज्य  Department of Defense ) , leading to a partial collapse in its western side .
The fourth plane , United Airlines Flight 93 , was targeted at the United States Capitol in  वॉशिंगटन , d.C. , लकिन क्रैश into a फ़ील्ड  near Shanksville , Pennsylvania , after its passengers tried to overcome the hijackers .
In total , almost  3,000 लोगों died in the हमले , सहित the 227 नागरिकों  and 19 hijackers aboard the four planes .
suspicion जल्दी  fell on al-Qaeda .
Although the group 's  नेता , ओसामा बिन लादेन , initially अस्वीकृत कोई भागीदारी ,  in 2004 he claimed responsibility for the attacks .
Al-Qaeda and bin Laden cited  u.S. support of इसराईल , the उपस्थिति of u.S. सैनिकों in सऊदी  Arabia , and sanctions against Iraq as motives for the attacks .
The  संयुक्त राज्य responded to the हमले by शुभारंभ the युद्ध on आतंक और आक्रमणकारी  Afghanistan to depose the Taliban , which had harbored al-Qaeda .
Many countries strengthened their anti-terrorism legislation  और विस्तारित विधि प्रवर्तन शक्तियां  .
Having evaded capture for  सालो , बिन लादेन थी स्तिथ और मारे  by U.S. forces in May 2011 .
The  विनाश of the जुड़वा मीनारें और अन्य गुण  caused serious damage to the economy of Lower Manhattan and had a significant effect on global markets .
Cleanup of the  संसार व्यापार बीच साईट थी समाप्त in may 2002  , and the Pentagon was repaired within a year .
Numerous memorials have been constructed , including the National September 11 Memorial &  संग्रहालय in नई यॉर्क , the प्रस्तुतीकरण मेमोरियल , और the उड़ान 93 नेशनल मेमोरियल in पेन्सिलवेनिया  .
After a lengthy delay , the One World Trade Center is  अपेक्षित to be समाप्त at मैदान शून्य in नई  York City in 2013 .
Finding Nemo is a 2003  अमरीकी computer-animated comedy-drama एडवेंचर फिल्मी  written and directed by Andrew Stanton , released by Walt Disney Pictures , and the fifth film produced by Pixar Animation Studios .
It tells  the स्टोरी of the over-protective clownfish नामित marlin ( अल्बर्ट ब्रूक्स ) जो , साथ साथ a राजसी तंग  named Dory ( Ellen DeGeneres ) , searches for his abducted son Nemo ( Alexander Gould ) all the way to Sydney Harbour .
साथ the रास्ता , marlin learns to लो risks  and let Nemo take care of himself .
It is Pixar 's first film  to be released in cinemas in the उत्तरी  hemisphere summer .
The film was re-released for the  पहला समय in 3d on सितंबर 14 , 2012 , और it थी released  on Blu-ray on December 4 , 2012 .
A sequel , Finding Dory  , is फिलहाल in विकास , नियत to be released  on November 25 , 2015 .
The film received universal critical acclaim  और जीती the अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन एनिमेटेड विशेषता , और  was nominated in three more categories including Best Original Screenplay .
It was the second highest-grossing film  of 2003 , कमाई a कुल of  $ 921 million worldwide .
Finding Nemo is also the best-selling DVD of all time , with over 40 million copies sold as of 2006 , and was the  highest-grossing g-rated फिल्मी of सब समय पहले पिक्चर्स 's  own Toy Story 3 overtook it .
It is also the 23rd  highest-grossing फिल्मी of सब समय , as खूब as the 3rd highest-grossing  animated film .
In 2008 , the  अमरीकी फिल्मी संस्थान नामित it the दसवाँ महानतम एनिमेटेड  film ever made during their Top 10 .
The sixth season of America 's Best Dance Crew , also known as America 's Best Dance Crew : Season of the  सुपरस्टार , premiered on अप्रैल 7 , 2011 और concluded on जून 5 , 2011  .
Auditions were held in four cities from January 21  through फ़रवरी 5 : शिकागो ,  Houston , New York , and Los Angeles .
This season takes a different  रूट इससे पास्ट सीज़न  .
The crews must perform to the music  of एक विशिष्ट कलाकार प्रत्येक सप्ताह , सहित रिहाना  , Lil Wayne , and other popular stars .
This season also features special guest appearances by various  म्यूज़िक हस्तियाँ सहित जस्टिन बीबर , the ब्लैक eyed मटर , कैटी पेरी , kesha  , Nicki Minaj , and Kanye West .
Dominic  `` d-trix '' sandoval , a पूर्व सदस्य of क्वेस्ट क्रू , the विजेता  of the third season of America 's Best Dance Crew , joins returning judges Lil Mama and JC Chasez as the newest judge .
In the season finale , I aM mE was declared  the विजेता of ऋतु 6 और प्राप्त the $ 100,000  ( USD ) prize .
In the  संयुक्त राज्य , सोशल सुरक्षा refers to the old-age  , Survivors , and Disability Insurance ( OASDI ) federal program .
The original Social Security  अधिनियम ( 1935 ) और the वर्तमान संस्करण of the अधिनियम , as amended , encompass अनेक सोशल welfare  and social insurance programs .
Social Security is primarily funded through  समर्पित payroll कर पुकारा संघीय बीमे योगदान  Act tax ( FICA ) .
Tax deposits are formally entrusted  to the संघीय old-age और survivors बीमे विश्वास निधि , the संघीय विकलांगता बीमे विश्वास निधि , the संघीय  Hospital Insurance Trust Fund , or the Federal Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Fund which comprise the Social Security Trust Fund .
Upward redistribution of income is  जिम्मेदार लिये परिचय 43 % of the प्रक्षिप्त  Social Security shortfall over the next 75 years .
According to economist Martin Feldstein , the combined spending for all social insurance programs in 2003  गठित 37 % of सरकारी व्यय और 7 % of the सकल घरेलू  product .
Social Security is currently estimated to  रखना roughly 40 प्रतिशत of सब  Americans age 65 or older out of poverty .
The Social Security Administration  is headquartered in woodlawn , मेरीलैंड  , just west of Baltimore .
The  दारू by आवाज़ दिखाया on  a bottle of absinthe .
Alcohol by volume ( abbreviated as ABV , abv , or alc/vol ) is a standard measure of how much alcohol (  इथेनॉल ) is contained in an alcoholic पेय ( expressed as a  percentage of total volume ) .
The ABV standard  is प्रयुक्त विश्वव्यापी .
In some countries , alcohol by volume is referred to as  डिग्री gay-lussac ( बाद the फ्रेंच केमिस्ट जोसेफ  Louis Gay-Lussac ) .
Laurel Hollow is a village in the Town of  सीप खाड़ी in nassau काउंटी , नई यॉर्क in the  United States .
The population was 1,952 at  the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी .
Charles  जॉन huffam डिकेंस ( ; 7 फ़रवरी 1812 – 9 जून  1870 ) was an English writer and social critic .
He created some of the world 's most memorable  fictional वर्ण और is generally regarded as the महानतम उपन्यासकार  of the Victorian period .
During his life , his works enjoyed unprecedented  कीर्ति , और by the बीसवीं सदी उसके साहित्यिक प्रतिभाशाली थी broadly acknowledged by आलोचकों  and scholars .
His novels and  छोटी कहानियां continue to be  widely popular .
Born in Portsmouth , England , Dickens left school to work in a  फैक्टरी बाद उसके पिता थी thrown into कर्जदार ' थाना  .
Although he had little formal  शिक्षा , उसके जल्दी impoverishment drove उसे to सफल  .
Over his career he edited a weekly journal for 20 years , wrote 15 novels , 5 novellas and hundreds of short stories and non-fiction  आलेख , lectured और performed extensively , थी an indefatigable अक्षर लेखक , और campaigned vigorously लिये children 's अधिकारों , शिक्षा , और अन्य सोशल  reforms .
Dickens sprang to fame with  the 1836 सीरियल प्रकाशन of  The Pickwick Papers .
Within a few years he had become an  अंतरराष्ट्रीय साहित्यिक हस्ती , प्रसिद्ध लिये उसके ह्यूमर , व्यंग्य , और keen अवलोकन  of character and society .
His novels , most published in monthly or weekly instalments ,  pioneered the सीरियल प्रकाशन of कथा fiction , जिससे became the प्रबल विक्टोरियन विधि लिये अनोखा  publication .
The  किस्त स्वरूप अनुमत डिकेंस to evaluate उसके दर्शक 's प्रतिक्रिया , और he प्रायः परिवर्धित  his plot and character development based on such feedback .
For example , when  उसके बीवी 's chiropodist expressed तकलीफ at the रास्ता मिस mowcher in दाउद कॉपरफील्ड लगा to प्रतिबिंबित  her disabilities , Dickens went on to improve the character with positive lineaments .
Fagin in Oliver Twist apparently mirrors the famous fence Ikey Solomon ; His caricature of Leigh Hunt in  the फिगर of mr skimpole in bleak हाउस थी likewise toned bas on सलाह इससे कुछ of उसके मित्रों , as वे पढ़ा एपीसोड  .
In the same novel , both Lawrence Boythorne and Mooney the  beadle हैं drawn इससे रियल जीवन – boythorne इससे वाल्टर जंगली landor और मूनी  from 'Looney ' , a beadle at Salisbury Square .
His plots were  carefully constructed , और डिकेंस प्रायः wove  in elements from topical events into his narratives .
Masses of the illiterate poor chipped in ha'pennies to have each  नई मासिक एपीसोड पढ़ा to उन्हें , खोलने up  and inspiring a new class of readers .
Dickens was  regarded as the  literary colossus of his age .
His 1843 novella , A Christmas Carol , is one of the most influential works ever  लिखा , और it remains लोकप्रिय और continues  to inspire adaptations in every artistic genre .
His creative  प्रतिभाशाली रै महरूम praised by fellow writers—from leo टालस्टाय to G. K. चेस्टरटन और जार्ज  Orwell —for its realism , comedy , prose style , unique characterisations , and social criticism .
On the other hand Oscar Wilde , Henry James and Virginia Woolf complained of a lack  of मनोवैज्ञानिक गहराई , ढीला लिखने , और a रग of saccharine sentimentalism  .
Martin Luther King and  अन्य सिविल अधिकारों नेताओ in सामने of the प्रतिमा of अब्राहम  Lincoln , August 28 , 1963
The civil rights movement was a series of worldwide  राजनैतिक आंदोलनों लिये समता  before the law that peaked in the 1960s .
In many situations it took  the रूप of अभियान of सिविल प्रतिरोध aimed at achieving बदलें by  nonviolent forms of resistance .
In some situations it was accompanied , or followed , by  सिविल अशांति और हथियारबंद विद्रोह  .
The process was long and tenuous in many countries , and many of these movements did not fully achieve their goals although , the efforts of these  आंदोलनों किया सीसे to सुधार in the विधिक अधिकारों of previously दलित समूह  of people .
The main aim of the civil rights movement included ,  और शामिल , ensuring कि the अधिकारों of सब लोगों  are equally protected by the law , including the rights of minorities .
Civil rights movements ranging from the global LGBT rights movement to the global Women 's  अधिकारों गति to विभिन्न जातिगत अल्पसंख्यक अधिकारों आंदोलनों around the  world continue .
The 2010 FIFA World Cup was the 19th FIFA World Cup , the world  चैंपियनशिप लिये मेन 's नेशनल संघ फ़ुटबॉल टीमों  .
It took place in South  अफ़्रीकी इससे 11 जून to 11 जुलाई 2010  .
The bidding process for hosting the tournament finals was open only to African nations ; in 2004 , the international  फ़ुटबॉल संघ , फीफा , चयनित दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी over मिश्र और मोरक्को to become the पहला अफ़्रीकी स्वदेश to मेजबान the फाइनल  .
The matches were played  in टेन स्टेडियम in नौ मेजबान शहरों around the देश  , with the final played at the Soccer City stadium in South Africa 's largest city , Johannesburg .
Thirty-two teams were selected for  भागीदारी via a विश्वव्यापी योग्यता टूर्नामेंट कि began in अगस्त  2007 .
In the first round of the tournament finals , the teams  competed in round-robin समूह of चार टीमों लिये अंक , साथ the शीर्ष दो टीमों  in each group proceeding .
These sixteen teams advanced  to the नॉकआउट स्टेज , जहाँ तीन rounds of खेल decided जिससे टीमों  would participate in the final .
In the final , Spain , the European champions , defeated third-time finalists  the नीदरलैंड्स 1–0 बाद अतिरिक्त समय , साथ आन्द्रेस iniesta 's लक्ष्य in the 116th मिनट giving स्पेन उनके पहला संसार शीर्षक  , becoming the eighth nation to win the tournament , and the first European nation to win the tournament outside its home continent .
Host nation South  अफ़्रीकी , 2006 संसार champions इटली और 2006 runners-up फ़्रांस यहूद सब  eliminated in the first round of the tournament .
It was the first time that the  होस्ट यहूद eliminated in the पहला  round .
New Zealand with  उनके तीन draws यहूद the तभी अपराजित  team in the tournament , but were also eliminated in the first round .
The McMuffin is a family of breakfast sandwiches in various sizes  और configurations , बेची by the fast-food रेस्तरां  chain McDonald 's .
The Egg McMuffin is the signature breakfast sandwich ; it was invented by the late McDonald 's  वाल हर्ब पीटरसन in the लेट 1960s और थी introduced देशभर in 1972  .
John Lennon was an English musician who gained worldwide fame as one of the  संस्थापकों of the बीटल्स , लिये उसके subsequent सोलो करियर , और लिये उसके राजनैतिक  activism and pacifism .
He was shot by Mark David  chapman at the प्रवेश of the भवन जहाँ he जिया , the डकोटा , in  New York City on 8 December 1980 .
Lennon had  बस लौटे इससे रिकार्ड संयंत्र स्टुडियो  with his wife , Yoko Ono .
Lennon was pronounced dead on arrival at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center , where it was stated that  nobody could have जिया लिये अधिक than a few मिनट्स बाद sustaining ऐसे  injuries .
Shortly after  लोकल न्यूज स्टेशन reported लेनन  's death , crowds gathered at Roosevelt Hospital and in front of the Dakota .
Lennon was cremated on 10  दिसम्बर 1980 at the ferncliff कब्रिस्तान in hartsdale  , New York ; the ashes were given to Ono , who chose not to hold a funeral for him .
The first report of Lennon 's death  to a u.S. नेशनल दर्शक थी घोषित by हावर्ड cosell  , on ABC 's Monday Night Football .
New Orleans ( or , locally or ; ) is a major United States port  और the largest नगर और महानगर क्षेत्रफल in the राज्य  of Louisiana .
The population of the  नगर थी 343,829 as of the  2010 U.S. Census .
The New Orleans metropolitan area ( New  orleans–metairie–kenner महानगर सांख्यिकीय क्षेत्रफल ) था a जनसांख्यिकी of 1,167,764  in 2010 and was the 46th largest in the United States .
The  नई orleans–metairie–bogalusa संयुक्त सांख्यिकीय क्षेत्रफल  , a larger trading area , had a 2010 population of 1,214,932 .
The city is named after Orléans , a city located on the Loire River in Centre , France , and  is खूब ज्ञात लिये इसके पृथक फ्रेंच क्रियोल वास्तुकला , as खूब  as its cross-cultural and multilingual heritage .
New Orleans is also  प्रसिद्ध लिये इसके भोजन , म्यूज़िक ( विशेषकर as the जन्मस्थान of जैज़  ) , and its annual celebrations and festivals , most notably Mardi Gras .
The city  is प्रायः referred to as the `` सबसे अद्वितीय  '' in America .
New Orleans  is स्तिथ in southeastern  Louisiana , straddling the Mississippi River .
The city and  ऑरलियन्स मोहल्ला (  ) are .
The city and parish are bounded by  the parishes of st. tammany to the उत्तर , st. बर्नार्ड to the ईस्ट , plaquemines to the  south and Jefferson to the south and west .
Lake Pontchartrain , part of which is included in the city  हद , झूठ to the उत्तर और झील borgne  lies to the east .
The United States presidential election of  1968 थी the 46th quadrennial अध्यक्षीय चुनाव , आयोजित  on Tuesday , November 5 , 1968 .
the रिपब्लिकन nominee , पूर्व vice-president रिचर्ड  Nixon , won the election over the Democratic nominee , incumbent Vice-President Hubert Humphrey .
Nixon ran on a campaign that promised to restore law and order to the nation 's  शहरों , फटा by दंगे और अपराधों .
Analysts have argued  the चुनाव of 1968 is a realigning चुनाव as it permanently disrupted  the New Deal Coalition that had dominated presidential politics for 36 years .
Coming four years after Democrat Lyndon B. Johnson won in a historic landslide , the election saw  the लाज़िम अध्यक्ष मजबूर आउट of the रेस और a रिपब्लिकन निर्वाचित लिये the पहला समय in बारह  years .
It was a wrenching national experience , conducted during a year of violence that included the assassination of civil rights leader Martin Luther King , Jr. , and subsequent race riots across the nation , the assasination of Democratic presidential candidate Robert F. Kennedy ,  फैली विपक्ष to the वियतनाम युद्ध आरपार विश्वविद्यालयों campuses , और हिंसक confrontations between पुलिस और anti-war प्रदर्शनकारियों at the 1968 लोकतांत्रिक  National Convention as the Democratic party split again and again .
The election featured  the strongest तीसरा पार्टी प्रयत्न चूंकि 1912 by पूर्व अलबामा  Governor George Wallace , a Democrat .
Because  वालेस 's अभियान opposed संघीय हस्तक्षेप in the दक्षिण to समाप्त स्कूल पृथक्करण , he carried  the Deep South and ran well in ethnic industrial districts in the North .
This  थी the पिछला चुनाव in जिससे नई यॉर्क था the सबसे  votes in the electoral college ( 43 votes ) .
After the 1970 census , California gained the most electoral votes  और रै remained the सबसे populous राज्य चूंकि  then .
इस is the नवीनतम चुनाव जहाँ a अध्यक्षीय  ticket won without carrying the vice presidential candidate 's home state .
Karak ( ; also known as Garak , Garrak , and Gorg ) is a village in Gamasiyab  ग्रामीण ज़िला , in the सेंट्रल ज़िला of nahavand काउंटी ,  Hamadan Province , Iran .
At the  2006 जनसांख्यिकी , इसके जनसांख्यिकी थी  294 , in 65 families .
कर्ट 's हस्ताक्षर
Kurt Donald Cobain ( February 20 , 1967 – April 5 , 1994 ) was an American musician and  कलाकार , बेहतरीन ज्ञात as the सीसे सिंगर , guitarist और प्राथमिक songwriter of the grunge  band Nirvana .
Cobain formed Nirvana with Krist Novoselic in Aberdeen , Washington in 1985 and established it as part of the Seattle  म्यूज़िक झाँकी , having इसके डेब्यू एल्बम ब्लीच released on the स्वतंत्र रिकार्ड लेबल sub पॉप in  1989 .
After signing with major label DGC  रिकॉर्ड , the बैंड मिला भेदन कामयाबी साथ `` खुश्बू जैसे टीन स्पिरिट `` इससे इसके दूसरी एल्बम nevermind  ( 1991 ) .
Following the success of Nevermind , Nirvana was labeled  `` the फ्लैगशिप बैंड '' of पीढी x , और कोबेन hailed  as `` the spokesman of a generation '' .
Cobain , however , was often uncomfortable and  कुंठित , believing उसके संदेश और कलाकारी दृष्टि to have महरूम misinterpreted by the पब्लिक , साथ उसके निजी  issues often subject to media attention .
He challenged  निर्वाण 's दर्शक  with its final studio album In Utero ( 1993 ) .
During the last years of his life ,  कोबेन struggled साथ हेरोइन व्यसन , बीमारी  and depression .
He also had difficulty coping  साथ उसके कीर्ति और पब्लिक चित्र , और the पेशेवर और lifelong निजी pressures surrounding  himself and his wife , musician Courtney Love .
On April 8 , 1994 , Cobain was found dead  at उसके घर in सिएटल , the शिकार of कया थी officially शासित a आत्महत्या by  a self-inflicted shotgun wound to the head .
The  हालातों of उसके मौत at आयु 27 have become  a topic of public fascination and debate .
Since their debut , Nirvana , with  कोबेन as a songwriter , रै बेची over  25 million albums in the U.S. , and over 50 million worldwide .
A millwright is  a craftsman or tradesman सगाई साथ the निर्माण और मेंटेनेंस  of machinery .
More generally in the English speaking  संसार , जल्दी millwrights यहूद विशेषज्ञ बढ़ई जो erected मशीने प्रयुक्त in कृषि , खाना प्रसंस्करण और प्रसंस्करण lumber और पेपर  .
In the early part of the Industrial Revolution , their skills were pressed  into सेवा भवन the earliest संचालित वस्त्र मिलों  .
आधुनिक millwrights कार्य साथ स्टील और अन्य सामग्री in जोड to लकडी और जरूर प्रायः combine  the skills of several skilled trades in order to successfully fabricate industrial machinery or to assemble machines from pre-fabricated parts .
The modern millwright  जरूर भी be समर्थ to पढ़ा blueprints और  other schematics to aid him in the construction of complex systems .
Millwrights are frequently  unionized , साथ around 45 % unionized in the us , हालांकि अनुभवी millwrights  often set themselves up as independent contractors .
The  समायोजन ब्यूरो is a 2011 अमरीकी रोमांटिक कार्रवाई थ्रिलर फिल्मी loosely  based on the Philip K. Dick short story , `` Adjustment Team `` .
The film was written and  निर्देशित by जार्ज nolfi और सितारों मैट डैमन  and Emily Blunt .
The cast also includes Anthony  mackie , जॉन slattery , माइकल केली  , and Terence Stamp .
The score was  रचित by थामस न्युमैन , साथ दो गीतों by रिचर्ड ashcroft ( `` भविष्य 's उज्जवल '' लिये  the opening sequence ; `` Are You Ready ? '' for the closing credits ) .
सोडियम azide is the अकार्बनिक  compound with the formula NaN3 .
This colorless salt is  the gas-forming घटक in  many car airbag systems .
it is प्रयुक्त लिये the तैयारी  of other azide compounds .
It is an ionic substance , is highly  घुलनशील in जल , और  is very acutely toxic .
Double rainbow and  supernumerary rainbows on the अंदर of the प्राथमिक  arc .
The shadow of the photographer 's head  on the नीचे marks the केन्द्र of the रेनबो  circle ( antisolar point ) .
A rainbow is an optical and meteorological phenomenon that is caused by  प्रतिबिंब of लाइट in जल droplets in the धरती 's माहौल , resulting in a वर्णक्रम of लाइट  appearing in the sky .
It takes the form  of a multicoloured  arc .
Rainbows caused by sunlight always  appear in the खण्ड of आसमान सीधे विपरीत  the sun .
in a `` प्राथमिक रेनबो '' , the चाप shows  red on the outer part and violet on the inner side .
This rainbow is caused by light being refracted while entering a droplet  of जल , तब reflected अंदर on the वापस of the droplet और refracted again जब  leaving it .
In a double rainbow ,  a दूसरी चाप is देखी बाहर the प्राथमिक चाप , और रै the अनुक्रम of इसके रंग  reversed , red facing toward the other one , in both rainbows .
This  दूसरी रेनबो is caused by  light reflecting twice inside water droplets .
The Conservative Party , officially the Conservative and  यूनियनिस्ट पार्टी और colloquially referred to as the tory पार्टी or the tories , is a centre-right  political party in the United Kingdom that espouses the philosophies of conservatism and British unionism .
it  is the largest राजनैतिक पार्टी in the संयुक्त किंगडम , होने the largest सिंगल पार्टी in the  House of Commons with 303 MPs , the largest party in local government with 9,391 councillors , and the largest British party in the European Parliament with 25 MEPs .
It governs in coalition  साथ the उदार डेमोक्रेट , साथ पार्टी नेता दाउद cameron  as Prime Minister .
The Conservative Party was founded in 1834 ,  और थी एक of दो प्रबल पार्टियों in the 19th सदी  , along with the Liberal Party .
It changed its name to the Conservative and Unionist Party in 1912 after merging with the Liberal Unionist  पार्टी , हालांकि कि नाम is rarely प्रयुक्त और it is generally referred to as बस the रूढ़िवादी  Party .
In the 1920s , the Liberal vote  greatly diminished और the श्रमिक पार्टी became the conservatives ' प्रमुख  rivals .
Conservative Prime Ministers led governments for 57 years of the 20th century , including Winston  चर्चिल ( 1940–45 , 1951–55 ) और मार्गरेट थैचर ( 1979–90  ) .
Thatcher 's tenure led to wide-ranging economic liberalisation and  देखी the conservatives become the सबसे eurosceptic of the  three major parties .
The party was  लौटे to सरकारी in गठबन्धन , having विफल to जीत a बहुमत , in 2010 अंतर्गत the  more `` liberal '' leadership of David Cameron .
In the European Parliament , the Conservatives are the largest  अंग्रेजों पार्टी साथ 25 meps , जो बैठना साथ the नरम eurosceptic यूरोपीय conservatives और reformists ( ecr ) संसदीय समूह , जबकि the पार्टी itself is a सदस्य of  the Alliance of European Conservatives and Reformists ( AECR ) Europarty .
They are the third-largest party in the Scottish Parliament and  second-largest in the वेल्श सभा .
They were formally allied  to the ulster यूनियनिस्ट पार्टी ( uup ) as भाग of the ulster conservatives और unionists व्यवस्था ,  with the UUP currently participating in the five-party Northern Ireland Executive .
Destiny 's Child was an American R & B girl group whose  फाइनल , और शायद सबसे recognizable , line-up comprised  Beyoncé Knowles , Kelly Rowland and Michelle Williams .
formed in 1990 in ह्यूस्टन , टेक्सास , नियति 's चाइल्ड सदस्यों began उनके musical endeavors  as Girl 's Tyme comprising , among others , Knowles , Rowland , LaTavia Roberson and LeToya Luckett .
After  सालो of सीमित कामयाबी , वे यहूद हस्ताक्षरित  to Columbia Records as Destiny 's Child .
Destiny 's Child was launched into mainstream recognition  following the रिलीज of उनके best-selling दूसरी एल्बम , the लिखने 's on the वॉल , जिससे contained the  number-one singles `` Bills , Bills , Bills `` and `` Say My Name `` .
Despite critical and commercial success , the group was plagued by internal conflict and legal  turmoil , as roberson और luckett attempted to विभाजित इससे the समूह 's मैनेजर mathew  Knowles , citing favoritism of Knowles and Rowland , his daughter and niece , respectively .
Both Roberson  और luckett यहूद जल्द replaced साथ विलियम्स और farrah फ्रैंकलिन  ; however , in 2000 , Franklin was dismissed , leaving them as a trio .
उनके तीसरा एल्बम , उत्तरजीवी , जिससे contains विषयवस्तु the पब्लिक interpreted as a चैनल to the समूह 's अनुभव ,  contains the worldwide hits `` Independent Women `` , `` Survivor `` and `` Bootylicious `` .
In 2002 , they announced a hiatus and  re-united दो सालो बाद लिये the रिलीज of उनके चौथी  studio album , Destiny Fulfilled ( 2004 ) .
Destiny  's चाइल्ड रै बेची अधिक than 50 लाख  records worldwide to date .
Billboard magazine ranks the group as one of the greatest musical trios of all time , the ninth most successful artist/band of the 2000s , and placed  the समूह 68th in इसके all-time hot 100 कलाकारों सूची  in 2008 .
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( CDC ) is a United States federal agency under the  विभाग of स्वास्थ्य और इंसान सेवाएं headquartered in druid पहाड़ियाँ , unincorporated  DeKalb County , Georgia , in Greater Atlanta .
It  works to protect पब्लिक स्वास्थ्य और सुरक्षा by providing  information to enhance health decisions , and it promotes health through partnerships with state health departments and other organizations .
The CDC focus national attention on developing and applying disease  रोकथाम और कंट्रोल ( विशेषकर संक्रामक रोगों और foodborne pathogens और अन्य सूक्ष्मजैविक infections ) , पर्यावरणीय स्वास्थ्य , occupational सुरक्षा और  health , health promotion , injury prevention and education activities designed to improve the health of the people of the United States .
The CDC is the United States '  नेशनल पब्लिक स्वास्थ्य संस्थान और is a founding सदस्य of the  International Association of National Public Health Institutes .
भूकंप भविष्यवाणी `` is प्रायः पारिभाषित as the specification  of the time , location , and magnitude of a future earthquake within stated limits '' , and particularly of `` the next strong earthquake to occur in a region . ''
This can be  विशिष्ट इससे भूकंप forecasting , जिससे is the probabilistic मूल्यांकन of सामान्य भूकंप  hazard , including the frequency and magnitude of damaging earthquakes , in a given area over periods of years or decades .
This can be further distinguished from real-time earthquake warning systems , which , upon detection of a severe earthquake , can  provide neighboring regions a few सेकेंड चेतावनी of potentially significant shaking  .
to be उपयोगी , an भूकंप भविष्यवाणी जरूर be precise पर्याप्त to वारंट the लागत of increased एहतियात  , including disruption of ordinary activities and commerce , and timely enough that preparation can be made .
Predictions must also be reliable , as false alarms and cancelled  सचेतक हैं नहीं तभी economically costly , लकिन seriously undermine विश्वास in , और  thereby the effectiveness of , any kind of warning .
With over 7,000 earthquakes around the world each year with a magnitude of 4.0 or greater ,  नगण्य कामयाबी in भूकंप भविष्यवाणी is easily प्राप्त using fear व्यापक पैरामीटर्स of समय , स्थान , or परिमाण  .
However , such  नगण्य `` कामयाब पूर्वानुमान  '' are not useful .
Major earthquakes are often followed by reports  कि वे यहूद पूर्वानुमानित , or at तनिक anticipated , लकिन no अर्जी of a कामयाब भविष्यवाणी of a प्रमुख  earthquake has survived close inquiry .
In the 1970s there was intense  आशावाद amongst वैज्ञानिकों कि कुछ विधि of predicting भूकंप might be मिला  , but by the 1990s continuing failure led many scientists to question whether it was even possible .
While many scientists still hold that , given enough resources ,  भविष्यवाणी might be संभावित , अनेक अन्य maintain कि भूकंप भविष्यवाणी  is inherently impossible .
Deborah Ann `` Debby '' Ryan ( born May 13 ,  1993 ) is an अमरीकी अभिनेत्री , सिंगर , संगीतकार ,  songwriter and record producer .
Ryan is best known for starring as  बेली पिकेट in the डिज़्नी चैनल असली श्रेणी  The Suite Life on Deck .
In 2008 , The Suite  जीवन on डेक क्रमित as tv 's शीर्ष श्रेणी among बच्चे 6-11 और  the No . 2 scripted series among tweens 9-14 .
Ryan  प्रारंभ एक्टिंग in पेशेवर थिएटर at the आयु of सात ; in 2007 वो appeared in the बार्नी  & Friends straight-to-DVD film Barney : Let 's Go to the Firehouse and then was discovered in a nationwide search by Disney .
She is also known  लिये appearing in the 2008 विशेषता  film The Longshots as Edith .
In 2009 , she guest starred in an episode of  wizards of waverly प्लेस in wizards on डेक साथ हन्ना मोंटाना as बेली पिकेट साथ  with her other cast mates from The Suite Life on Deck .
Then , in 2010 , she starred in the film 16 Wishes , which was the  सबसे देखी केबल कार्यक्रम on the दिन of इसके प्रीमियर  on the Disney Channel .
16 Wishes introduced Ryan to new audiences ;  the फिल्म प्राप्त ऊँची viewership in the वयस्कों  demographic ( 18-34 ) .
जल्द बाद कि , रयान स्ट्रक्चर in the स्वतंत्र  theatrical film , What If ... , which premiered on August 20 , 2010 .
Ryan also starred in  the नई डिज़्नी चैनल असली फिल्म , रेडियो विद्रोही , जहाँ वो portrays the भूमिका of tara एडम्स , a शर्मीले 17-year-old  girl who adopts the radio personality , Radio Rebel .
released फ़रवरी 17 , 2012  .
Ryan stars in the  titular भूमिका in the डिज़्नी चैनल असली  Series , Jessie .
stührling tourbillon गति  ( ) .
In horology , a tourbillon ( ; `` whirlwind ''  ) is an जोड to the यांत्रिकी of a  watch escapement .
Developed around 1795 by the French-Swiss watchmaker Abraham-Louis Breguet from an earlier idea by the English chronometer maker John Arnold , a  tourbillon aims to काउंटर the प्रभाव of गम्भीरता by mounting the escapement और संतुलन व्हील in a घूर्णन पिंजरा  , to negate the effect of gravity when the timepiece ( thus the escapement ) is stuck in a certain position .
Originally an attempt to  improve सटीकता , tourbillons हैं स्टिल शामिल in कुछ महंगी  modern watches as a novelty and demonstration of watchmaking virtuosity .
The mechanism is usually exposed on  the देखें 's फेस to दिखाएँ  it off .
The Windows Installer ( previously known as  microsoft installer ) is a तन्त्र घटक प्रयुक्त लिये the संस्थापना ,  maintenance , and removal of software on modern Microsoft Windows systems .
The installation information , and often the files  themselves , हैं packaged in संस्थापना पैकेज , loosely रिलेशनल databases संरचित as com संरचित storages  and commonly known as `` MSI files '' , from their default file extension .
Windows Installer contains  significant परिवर्तन इससे इसके  predecessor , Setup API .
New  सुविधाएँ शामिल a जीयूआई फ्रेमवर्क और स्वचालित पीढी  of the uninstallation sequence .
Windows Installer is positioned as an alternative to  stand-alone executable installer frameworks ऐसे as पुरानी  versions of InstallShield and NSIS .
Microsoft encourages third parties to use  खिड़कियाँ installer as the आधार लिये संस्थापना frameworks , so कि वे synchronize correctly  with other installers and keep the internal database of installed products consistent .
Important  सुविधाएँ ऐसे as rollback और versioning  depend on a consistent internal database for reliable operation .
furthermore , खिड़कियाँ installer facilitates the principle of तनिक विशेषाधिकार  by performing software installations by proxy for unprivileged users .
Four Loko is a line of alcoholic beverages , originally marketed as energy drinks  , बेची by phusion प्रोजेक्ट of शिकागो , इलिनोइस  .
phusion operates as पेय  Four Brewing Company .
Four Loko ,  the कम्पनी 's सबसे लोकप्रिय पेय , debuted  in the United States market in 2005 .
It is now sold in 48 states , and in  कनाडा , the बहामा , बोलीविया , होंडुरास  , and Europe .
The name `` Four '' is derived from the original energy  पेय 's चार प्रमुख संघटक : दारू , कैफीन , taurine , और  guarana .
Four branded products have been the object of  विधिक , नैतिक , और स्वास्थ्य चिंताएं सम्बन्धित to the कम्पनी allegedly  marketing them to the underaged and the purported danger of combining alcohol and caffeine .
After the  पेय थी बैन in अनेक राज्य , a उत्पाद reintroduction in दिसम्बर 2010 removed  caffeine , taurine , and guarana as ingredients , and the malt beverage is no longer marketed as an energy drink .
The neck of a guitar showing the nut ( in the  पृष्ठभूमि , coloured श्वेत )  and first four metal frets .
A  fret is a उठाया तत्व on the गर्दन  of a stringed instrument .
Frets  प्रायः extend आरपार the पूरा  width of the neck .
On most modern western fretted  यंत्र , frets हैं मेटल स्ट्रिप्स inserted into the fingerboard  .
On some historical instruments and  non-european यंत्र , frets हैं बना  of pieces of string tied around the neck .
Frets  divide the गर्दन into फिक्स्ड खण्ड at intervals सम्बन्धित  to a musical framework .
On instruments such as guitars ,  प्रत्येक fret represents एक semitone in the मानक पश्चिमी प्रणाली जहाँ  one octave is divided into twelve semitones .
Fret is often used as a verb , meaning simply `` to press down  the स्ट्रिंग पीछे a fret  . ''
fretting प्रायः refers to the frets  and/or their system of placement .
There  थी खपत of दारू  both during and after prohibition .
The 18th Amendment prohibited the production ,  वितरण और बिक्री of alcoholic पेय in the संयुक्त राज्य और थी widely समर्थित by the अमरीकी  public when it went into effect in 1920 .
The temperance movement  था popularized the विश्वास कि दारू थी the प्रमुख कारण of सबसे निजी और सोशल समस्याएं और निषेध  was seen as the solution to the nation 's poverty , crime , violence , and other ills .
Upon ratification of the amendment , the famous  इंजीलवादी बिली संडे कहा कि `` the slums होगा  soon be only a memory .
We will turn our prisons  into कारखानों  and our jails into storehouses and corncribs . ''
(  compare christianity  and alcohol . )
Since alcohol  थी to be बैन और चूंकि it थी देखी as the कारण of  most , if not all , crime , some communities sold their jails .
The nation was highly optimistic and the leading prohibitionist in the United States Congress confidently asserted that `` There is as much chance of  repealing the eighteenth amendment as वहीँ is लिये a हमिंगबर्ड to मक्खी to the ग्रह मंगल साथ the वॉशिंगटन स्मारक  tied to its tail.”
The metre ( meter in American English ) , ( SI unit symbol : m ; SI  आयाम प्रतीक : l ) , is the आधारभूत ईकाई of लंबाई in the अंतरराष्ट्रीय प्रणाली of  Units ( SI ) .
Originally intended to be one ten-millionth of the  अलहदा इससे the धरती 's equator to the उत्तर ध्रुव ( at समुद्र स्तर ) , इसके परिभाषा  has been periodically refined to reflect growing knowledge of metrology .
Since  1983 , it रै महरूम पारिभाषित as `` the लंबाई of the पाथ travelled by लाइट  in vacuum during a time interval of 1/299,792,458 of a second . ''
Geologists exploring Jurassic sedimentary rocks  in makhtesh gadol , negev मरुस्थल ,  Israel
Geologists  explaining the महत्व of volcanic राख परतों to विद्यार्थी  on field in Iceland
A geologist is a scientist who studies the solid and liquid matter  कि constitutes the धरती as खूब as the प्रक्रियाओं और  history that has shaped it .
Geologists  प्रायः engage in अध्ययन भूविज्ञान  .
geologists , अध्ययन अधिक of an लागू विज्ञान  than a theoretical one , must approach Geology using physics , chemistry and biology as well as other sciences .
Geologists , compared to  वैज्ञानिकों सगाई in अन्य फ़ील्ड , हैं generally अधिक उजागर to the बाहरी than रहकर in laboratories  ; although some geologists prefer to perform most of their studies in the lab .
Geologists are engaged in exploration for mining companies in  ढूंढें of धातुओं , oils , और अन्य धरती  resources .
They are also in the  forefront of प्राकृतिक जोखिमों और आपदाओं चेतावनी और शमन , अध्ययन भूकंप , volcanic कार्यकलाप ,  tsunamis , weather storms , and the like ; their studies are used to warn the general public of the occurrence of these events .
Currently ,  geologists हैं भी सगाई in the चर्चा of  climate change , as they study the history and evidence for this Earth process .
Below is a  व्यापक ड्रिल और tap आकार चार्ट लिये सब drills , इम्पीरियल  and metric , and taps up to 36.5 mm .
Modern  वैक्यूम tubes , ज़्यादातर  miniature style
In electronics , a vacuum tube , electron tube  ( in उत्तर अमेरिका ) , तापायनिक वाल्व , ट्यूब , or वाल्व is a यंत्र controlling इलेक्ट्रिक  current through a vacuum in a sealed container .
The container is often thin  पारदर्शी कांच in a roughly बेलनाकार  shape .
The simplest vacuum tube , the diode , is  essentially an incandescent लाइट बल्ब साथ  an added electrode inside .
When the bulb 's filament is heated white-hot ,  electrons हैं `` boiled '' बंद इसके सतह और into  the vacuum inside the bulb .
If the  एलेक्ट्रोड -- पुकारा a `` थाली '' or `` धनाग्र '' -- is बना अधिक धनात्मक than the hot फिलामेंट , a सीधा वर्तमान  flows through the vacuum to the electrode ( a demonstration of the Edison effect ) .
As the current only flows in one direction , it makes it possible to convert an  प्रत्यावर्ती वर्तमान लागू to the फिलामेंट to सीधा  current .
The introduction of a  तीसरा एलेक्ट्रोड , a ग्रिड between the फिलामेंट और  the plate , yields another function .
A  वोल्टेज लागू to the ग्रिड नियंत्रण  the current flowing from the filament to the plate .
Thus , it allows the device to be used  as an इलेक्ट्रॉनिक प्रवर्धक .
Vacuum  tubes हैं यूँ प्रयुक्त लिये rectification , प्रवर्धन , switching  , or similar processing or creation of electrical signals .
the विशाल बहुमत of आधुनिक दिन tubes consist of a sealed संग्राहक साथ a वैक्यूम अंदर , और essentially  rely on thermionic emission of electrons from a hot filament or a cathode heated by the filament .
Some  अपवाद to इस हैं dealt साथ in the खण्ड  about gas-filled tubes below .
Vacuum tubes  यहूद नाजुक to the विकास of इलेक्ट्रॉनिक प्रौद्योगिकी , जिससे drove the विस्तार और व्यावसायीकरण of रेडियो प्रसारण , टेलीविज़न , रडार  , sound reinforcement , sound recording and reproduction , large telephone networks , analog and digital computers , and industrial process control .
Although some  अनुप्रयोग था counterparts using पहले technologies ऐसे as the चिंगारी गैप ट्रांसमीटर or mechanical कंप्यूटर , it थी  the invention of the vacuum tube with three electrodes ( called a triode ) and its capability of electronic amplification that made these technologies widespread and practical .
In most applications , solid-state devices such as  transistors और अन्य सेमीकंडक्टर डिवाइस have  replaced tubes .
solid-state डिवाइस पिछला longer और हैं छोटी ,  more efficient , more reliable , and cheaper than tubes .
Tubes can be  नाजुक , sometimes generate significant अनावश्यक ऊष्मा , और can लो अनेक seconds—many मिनट्स in नाजुक applications—after  powering on to warm to a temperature where they perform within operational tolerance .
However , tubes  स्टिल ढूँढें उपयोग जहाँ solid-state डिवाइस have नहीं महरूम विकसित , हैं अव्यवहारिक , or जहाँ a ट्यूब रै श्रेष्ठ  performance , as with some devices in professional audio and high-power radio transmitters .
Tubes are  स्टिल उत्पादित लिये ऐसे अनुप्रयोग  .
Tubes  हैं कम संभावित than सेमीकंडक्टर डिवाइस to be नष्ट  by the electromagnetic pulse produced by nuclear explosions and geomagnetic storms produced by giant solar flares .
skittles is a ब्रांड of fruit-flavoured मिठाई , फिलहाल उत्पादित और  marketed by the Wm . Wrigley Jr. Company , a division of Mars , Inc .
They have hard sugar  शेल जिससे carry the अक्षर  S .
The inside is mainly sugar , corn syrup , and hydrogenated palm kernel oil along with fruit juice ,  साइट्रिक एसिड , और प्राकृतिक और कृत्रिम चटपटा  .
the confectionery रै महरूम बेची in a  variety of flavour collections , such as Tropical and Wild Berry .
सर विंस्टन लियोनार्ड spencer-churchill , ( 30 नवम्बर 1874 – 24 जनवरी 1965  ) was a British politician who was the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom from 1940 to 1945 and again from 1951 to 1955 .
Widely regarded as one of the greatest wartime leaders of the 20th century ,  चर्चिल थी भी an अधिकारी in the अंग्रेजों फौज , a इतिहासकार , a लेखक , और  an artist .
He is the only British  प्रधान मंत्री in इतिहास to have प्राप्त the नोबेल  Prize in Literature , and was also the first person to be made an Honorary Citizen of the United States .
Churchill was born into an  वैभवशाली परिवार as the पोता of the  7th Duke of Marlborough .
His father , Lord Randolph  चर्चिल , थी a charismatic राजनेता जो परोसा as  Chancellor of the Exchequer ; his mother , Jennie Jerome , was an American socialite .
As a young army officer , he saw  कार्रवाई in अंग्रेजों इण्डिया , the सूडान , और the  Second Boer War .
He gained fame as a war  correspondent और लिखा किताबे परिचय उसके  campaigns .
At the  forefront of राजनीती लिये पचास सालो , he आयोजित अनेक  political and cabinet positions .
पहले the पहला संसार युद्ध , he परोसा as अध्यक्ष of the फलक of व्यापार  , Home Secretary , and First Lord of the Admiralty as part of the Asquith Liberal government .
During the war , he continued as First Lord of the  admiralty जबतक the विनाशकारी gallipoli  Campaign caused his departure from government .
He then briefly resumed active army service on the Western Front as commander of  the 6th बटालियन of the royal स्कॉट्स  Fusiliers .
He returned to government  as मंत्री of munitions , सचिव of  State for War , and Secretary of State for Air .
After the War , Churchill served  as चांसलर of the exchequer in the रूढ़िवादी ( baldwin ) सरकारी of 1924–29 , controversially returning the पाउंड स्टर्लिंग in 1925  to the gold standard at its pre-war parity , a move widely seen as creating deflationary pressure on the UK economy .
Also controversial was his  विपक्ष to increased घर नियम लिये इण्डिया और उसके प्रतिरोध  to the 1936 abdication of Edward VIII .
Out of office and politically `` in the wilderness ''  दौरान the 1930s , चर्चिल took the सीसे in चेतावनी परिचय नाजी जर्मनी और  in campaigning for rearmament .
On the outbreak of the Second  संसार युद्ध , he थी again नियुक्त  First Lord of the Admiralty .
Following the  इस्तीफा of नेविली चेम्बरलेन on 10 may 1940 , चर्चिल became  Prime Minister .
His steadfast refusal to consider defeat , surrender , or a  सुलह सलाम helped inspire अंग्रेजों प्रतिरोध , विशेषकर दौरान the मुश्किल जल्दी दिनों  of the War when Britain stood alone among European countries in its active opposition to Adolf Hitler .
Churchill was particularly  विख्यात लिये उसके भाषणों और रेडियो प्रसारण , जिससे helped inspire the अंग्रेजों  people .
He led Britain as Prime  मंत्री जबतक विजय over नाजी  Germany had been secured .
After the Conservative  पार्टी खोया the 1945 चुनाव , he became नेता of the  Opposition to the Labour ( Attlee ) government .
After winning the 1951 election , he again became Prime  मंत्री , पहले retiring in 1955 .
Upon his death ,  एलिज़ाबेथ ii granted उसे the इज्ज़त of a राज्य अंत्येष्टि  , which saw one of the largest assemblies of world statesmen in history .
Named the Greatest Briton of all time in a 2002 poll , Churchill is widely regarded as  होने among the सबसे influential लोगों  in British history .
Ruby Gloom is an animated  टेलीविज़न दिखाएँ आधारित on an वस्त्र मताधिकार  .
The show is produced by Nelvana and began  airing on अक्तूबर 13 , 2006 in कनाडा on  the network YTV .
It stars  the आवाज़ें of सारा gadon , एमिली हैम्पशायर  , and Peter Keleghan .
The Ford Focus is a  कॉम्पैक्ट car ( c-segment in यूरोपीय ) manufactured  by the Ford Motor Company since 1998 .
Ford began sales  of the फ़ोकस to यूरोपीय in जुलाई 1998 और in उत्तर  America during 1999 for the 2000 model year .
In Europe , South America , North America and South Africa ,  the फ़ोकस replaced the विभिन्न संस्करण of the घाट अनुरक्षण बेची in those बाज़ार  .
In Asia and  australasia , it replaced  the Ford Laser .
As of the first half of 2012 , the Focus  surpassed the टोयोटा कोरोला to become  the world 's best selling automobile nameplate .
The Focus  रै महरूम माना एक of the 50 महानतम  cars of the past fifty years by British magazine CAR .
an आगर थाली -- an उदाहरण  of a bacterial growth medium .
Specifically , it is a  streak थाली ; the नारंगी लाइनों और  dots are formed by bacterial colonies .
A growth medium or culture medium is a liquid or gel designed to support the growth  of microorganisms or कोशिकाएं , or छोटी पौधे जैसे the मॉस physcomitrella  patens .
There are different types of media for growing  अलग प्रकार of कोशिकाएं  .
There  हैं दो प्रमुख प्रकार of विकास मीडिया : those प्रयुक्त लिये कोशिका संस्कृति , जिससे उपयोग विशिष्ट कोशिका प्रकार निकला  from plants or animals , and microbiological culture , which are used for growing microorganisms , such as bacteria or yeast .
The most common growth media for microorganisms are nutrient broths and agar plates ;  specialized मीडिया हैं sometimes जरूरी लिये microorganism और कोशिका संस्कृति  growth .
Some  जीवों , termed सुकुमार जीवों , आवश्यकता specialized  environments due to complex nutritional requirements .
Viruses , for example , are obligate intracellular parasites and  आवश्यकता a विकास मीडियम containing  living cells .
A talent agent , or booking agent , is a person who finds jobs for actors , authors ,  फिल्मी निर्देशकों , संगीतकारों , मॉडल , निर्माता , पेशेवर एथलीट , लेखक और अन्य  people in various entertainment businesses .
An  एजेंट भी defends , supports और promotes  the interest of his/her clients .
Agents can not  उपज उनके अपना shows due  to conflict of interest .
A talent agent must be  परिचित साथ  their clients .
An  एजेंट रै to जान कया दयालु of कार्य the क्लाएंट can और can  not do in order to match them with various jobs .
Having an agent is not required ,  लकिन करता सहायता the  artist in getting jobs .
In many cases casting directors , or  अन्य व्यवसायों , go to हुनर एजेंसियों to ढूँढें कलाकारों वे  are looking for .
the एजेंट is सशुल्क a प्रतिशत of the स्टार 's आय  ( typically 10 % ) .
एजेंटों sometimes होगा be referred  to as `` 10 percenters . ''
There are different regulations that govern different types of agents that are  स्थापित by कलाकार 's संघ और the विधिक क्षेत्राधिकार in जिससे the  agent operates .
There are  भी पेशेवर संगठन  that license talent agencies .
Since the decline in viewership in theaters , from the 1950s to 1960s ,  इस caused a स्मारकीय शिफ़्ट in कैसा studios होता उपज films  and thus reducing the cost of exclusive and expensive actors .
Actors and actresses were working for the studios but were not owned by one major studio  एंटिटी और so यहूद समर्थ to कार्य on भीतर उनके समय और साथ अन्य studios  .
Because of  इस , एजेंटों यहूद अभी देखी as  a necessity instead of an option .
एजेंटों अभी became तीसरा पार्टियों कि negotiated between studios  and clients , this making their services imperative between each party .
Since talent agencies are working with lucrative contracts , all talent agencies must be licensed under special sections of the  कैलिफ़ोर्निया मजदूर कोड , जिससे काल्स an एजेंट a `` व्यक्ति or निगम जो engages in the occupation of procuring  , offering , promising , or attempting to procure employment for artist or artists . ''
Mars has  दो ज्ञात moons , phobos और deimos  , which are thought to be captured asteroids .
Both satellites were discovered in 1877 by Asaph Hall and are named after the  वर्ण phobos ( panic/fear ) और deimos ( terror/dread ) जो , in यूनानी mythology ,  accompanied their father Ares , god of war , into battle .
Ares was known as  मंगल to the romans  .
It is possible that Mars may have moons smaller than 50 - 100 meters and a  धूल रिंग between phobos और deimos may be उपस्थित लकिन none  have been discovered .
In law enforcement parlance , the term murder book refers to  the मामला संचिका of a हत्या छानबीन  .
Typically , murder books include  अपराधों झाँकी छायाचित्र और sketches , पोस्टमार्टम और forensic रिपोर्ट्स , transcripts  of investigators ' notes and witness interviews .
The murder book encapsulates the complete  पेपर ट्रेल of a हत्या छानबीन , इससे the समय the हत्या is पहला  reported through the arrest of a suspect .
Law enforcement agencies typically guard  हत्या किताबे carefully , और it is असामान्य लिये नागरिकों to be दिए आज़ाद अभिगम  to these kinds of records , especially for unsolved cases .
A  melon baller
Melon balls are  गेंदें of melon बना using a melon baller कि varies इससे  around 1 centimeter to 3 centimeters ( about 3/8 inch to 1 inch ) .
They are  generally प्रयुक्त in फल सलाद  .
A KSA , or Knowledge , Skills , and Abilities , is a series of narrative statements that are required when  applying to संयुक्त राज्य संघीय सरकारी जॉब उद्घाटन  .
KSAs are used to determine ,  साथ साथ resumes , जो the बेहतरीन आवेदकों  are when several candidates qualify for a job .
The  ज्ञान , कौशल और abilities ( ksas ) जरुरी लिये the कामयाब प्रदर्शन  of a position are contained on each job vacancy announcement .
In 2009 the Office of Personal Management asked federal  एजेंसियों to रोकें requiring जॉब आवेदकों to भरण आउट the questionnaires  , to be phased out within a year .
KSAs are brief and focused essays about  एक 's करियर और शैक्षणिक पृष्ठभूमि कि presumably qualify एक to perform the  duties of the position being applied for .
A knowledge , skills , and abilities ( KSA ) is a concise essay about one 's talent and expertise and related experiences ( work ,  शिक्षा , स्वयंसेवी ) और accomplishments  .
A series of KSA statements are  प्रायः जरूरी जब applying लिये सबसे संघीय सरकारी  and some state and city government jobs .
KSAs are used as a yardstick to assess the capabilities of a  prospective आवेदक in शर्तें of संभावित क्षमता to perform the कर्तव्य  of the job .
Most  सरकारी भर्ती officials dekh लिये a छोटी , कुरकुरे और साफ ksa कि  emphasizes results or accomplishments obtained in previous work .
KSA  कथन हैं भी ज्ञात as मूल्यांकन  Factors .
Other agencies sometimes call them `` Rating Factors '' , `` Quality Ranking Factors '' , `` Knowledge ,  abilities , कौशल और अन्य विशेषताएँ  '' , or `` Job Elements '' .
The name can be  बस a नाम लकिन प्रायः it प्रभाव  content and length of the essay .
Every  एजेंसी रै इसके अपना regulations लकिन सबसे of  the time the each KSA factor should be 1/2 to 11⁄2 pages long .
The below definitions are defined by the U.S.  दफ्तर of कर्मियों प्रबन्धन  :
Knowledge , Skills , and Abilities ( KSAs ) - The  गुण जरूरी to perform a जॉब और हैं generally  demonstrated through qualifying service , education , or training .
Knowledge - Is a body of  सूचना लागू सीधे to the प्रदर्शन  of a function .
Skill - Is an  observable competence to perform a सीखे  psychomotor act .
Ability - Is competence to perform an observable behavior or a  बर्ताव कि परिणाम in an observable  product .
The scoring of KSA essays  is आधारित on a स्केल of इससे एक to  100 .
Job  आवेदकों जरूर स्कोर ऊपर 70  to be considered for the position .
High scores are  निकला through answering the ksa सवाल as specifically  as possible , providing examples from previous employment or training that clearly demonstrate you meet the qualifications .
When applying  to संघीय सरकारी स्थितियाँ , a संघीय पुनरारंभ  is usually required in addition to KSA statements .
सही
Whole grains are cereal grains  कि contain खाद्यान्न रोगाणु , भ्रूणपोष , और चोकर , in कंट्रास्ट to  refined grains , which retain only the endosperm .
Common  पूरे दाने  include:
गेहूं
oat
Barley -  hulled और dehulled ( नहीं पर्ल  )
मक्का
भूरा राइस
farro
spelt
emmer
einkorn
kamut
rye
बाजरा
quinoa
चौलाई
triticale
teff
sprouted दाने
buckwheat
Common  पूरे अनाज उत्पाद  include:
Whole  गेहूं आटा
पूरे गेहूं  Bread
पूरे गेहूं पास्ता
Rolled oats or  oat groats
triticale  flour
पॉपकॉर्न
teff आटा
Common refined  non-whole अनाज उत्पाद  include:
Love Always is the debut album of American R & B duo K-Ci  & जोजो , released on जून 17 , 1997 , by mca  Records .
It was recorded at various  studios in नई यॉर्क और the लॉस एंजिल्स क्षेत्रफल in  1996 and 1997 .
It was produced by  जोजो और अनेक अन्य , सहित  DeVante Swing , James Mtume , and Jeff Redd .
the duo यहूद originally a भाग  of Jodeci before this album .
the एल्बम peaked at छठे on the us बिलबोर्ड 200  and also appeared on international charts .
The single `` All My Life `` charted number  एक in अनेक देशों , और सब चार of the एल्बम 's singles peaked ऊपर the शीर्ष 25 in the us hot r & b/hip-hop गीतों और the  New Zealand Top 40 Singles .
Love Always was received  favorably by आलोचकों , जो praised the भाइयो  ' singing ability and the production .
The album has been certified three times platinum by the  रिकॉर्डिंग उद्योग संघ of अमेरिका ( riaa ) और सुनहरा by म्यूज़िक  Canada and IFPI Sweden .
As of  जून 1999 it था बेची 2.9 लाख नक़ल in  the United States .
A  variable-rate बंधक , adjustable-rate बंधक ( भुजा ) , or ट्रैकर बंधक is a  mortgage loan with the interest rate on the note periodically adjusted based on an index which reflects the cost to the lender of borrowing on the credit markets .
the ऋण may be offered  at the lender 's standard variable rate/ base rate .
There may be a direct and  legally-defined कड़ी to the underlying अनुक्रमणिका , लकिन जहाँ the lender offers no विशिष्ट कड़ी to the underlying मार्केट or अनुक्रमणिका the  rate can be changed at the lender 's discretion .
The term ``  variable-rate बंधक '' is सबसे आम बाहर the संयुक्त राज्य , whilst in  the United States , `` adjustable-rate mortgage '' is most common , and implies a mortgage regulated by the Federal government , with caps on charges .
In  अनेक देशों , समायोज्य रेट mortgages हैं the norm , और  in such places , may simply be referred to as mortgages .
Among the most common indices are the rates on 1-year constant-maturity  राजकोष ( cmt ) प्रतिभूति , the लागत of निधि अनुक्रमणिका ( cofi ) , और the लंदन interbank  Offered Rate ( LIBOR ) .
A few lenders use their  अपना लागत of निधि as an अनुक्रमणिका ,  rather than using other indices .
This is done to ensure a steady  हाशिया लिये the lender , जिनकी अपना लागत of funding होगा प्रायः  be related to the index .
Consequently , payments made by the borrower may  बदलें over समय साथ the बदलना ब्याज  rate ( alternatively , the term of the loan may change ) .
This  is पृथक इससे the ग्रैजुएट भुगतान बंधक , जिससे offers बदलना  payment amounts but a fixed interest rate .
Other forms of mortgage loan include the interest only mortgage , the fixed rate  बंधक , the ऋणात्मक amortization बंधक  , and the balloon payment mortgage .
Adjustable  दरों ट्रांसफ़र भाग of the  interest rate risk from the lender to the borrower .
They can be used  जहाँ मनमौजी ब्याज दरों मेक  fixed rate loans difficult to obtain .
The borrower benefits if the  ब्याज रेट जलप्रपात लकिन loses if the ब्याज  rate increases .
The borrower benefits from  घटाया मार्जिन to the underlying लागत of उधार compared to फिक्स्ड  or capped rate mortgages .
The assassination of Robert Francis `` Bobby '' Kennedy , a United States Senator and brother of assassinated President John Fitzgerald `` Jack ''  कैनेडी , took प्लेस shortly बाद मध्यरात्रि on जून 5 , 1968 , in लॉस एंजिल्स , कैलिफ़ोर्निया , दौरान the अभियान ऋतु लिये the संयुक्त राज्य  Presidential election , 1968 .
After winning the  कैलिफ़ोर्निया और दक्षिण डकोटा प्राथमिक चुनावों लिये the लोकतांत्रिक नामांकन लिये अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य , कैनेडी थी शॉट as he walked through the रसोईघर of the दूत होटल  and died in the Good Samaritan Hospital twenty-six hours later .
Sirhan Sirhan , a 24-year-old  फिलीस्तीनी / जार्डन अप्रवासी , थी convicted of कैनेडी 's  murder and is serving a life sentence for the crime .
Sirhan 's lawyers have released statements  claiming प्रमाण कि  he was framed .
The shooting was recorded on audio  टेप by a freelance समाचारपत्र रिपोर्टर , और the aftermath थी captured  on film .
कैनेडी 's देह lay in repose at st. पैट्रिक 's गिरजाघर  in New York for two days before a funeral mass was held on June 8 .
His body was interred near his  bhai जॉन at आर्लिंगटन नेशनल कब्रिस्तान  .
His death prompted the  सुरक्षा of अध्यक्षीय उम्मीदवार by the संयुक्त  States Secret Service .
Hubert Humphrey went on to win the Democratic nomination for the  प्रेसिडेंसी , लकिन ultimately narrowly खोया the चुनाव to  Richard Nixon .
As with his brother Jack 's death ,  bobby 's हत्या और the हालातों surrounding it have शाखित  a variety of conspiracy theories .
As of 2013 Kennedy remains one  of तभी दो बैठे संयुक्त राज्य सीनेटरों to be  assassinated ( the other being Huey Long ) .
The Modern Age of Comic Books is  an अनौपचारिक नाम लिये the काल in the इतिहास of मुख्यधारा अमरीकी कॉमिक किताबे generally  considered to last from the mid-1980s until present day .
In this period , comic book characters generally became darker and more psychologically complex , creators became  better-known और क्रियाशील in बदलना the उद्योग , स्वतंत्र कॉमिक्स flourished , और larger प्रकाशन घरों became अधिक commercialized  .
An alternate name for this period is the Dark Age of Comic Books ,  due to the लोकप्रियता और कलाकारी influence of grim शीर्षक , ऐसे as और  Watchmen .
When Harry Met  सैली ... is a 1989 अमरीकी रोमांटिक कॉमेडी फिल्मी लिखा  by Nora Ephron and directed by Rob Reiner .
It stars Billy Crystal as Harry and  मेग रयान as सैली .
The story follows the title characters from the  समय वे मिलें बस पहले sharing a cross-country ड्राइव , through बारह  years or so of chance encounters in New York City .
The film raises the question `` Can men and women ever just be friends ? '' and advances many  विचार परिचय संबंध कि became household अवधारणाओं , ऐसे as  those of the `` '' girlfriend and the `` transitional person '' .
The origins of the film came from Reiner 's  वापसी to सिंगल जीवन बाद a तलाक  .
An interview  ephron conducted साथ reiner provided  the basis for Harry .
Sally  थी आधारित on ephron  and some of her friends .
Crystal came on board and made his own  योगदान to the पटकथा , बनाना हैरी  funnier .
Ephron  supplied the ढांचा of the फिल्मी साथ much of the संवाद  based on the real-life friendship between Reiner and Crystal .
The  साउंडट्रैक consists of मानकों performed by हैरी connick  , Jr. , with a big band and orchestra arranged by Marc Shaiman .
Connick  जीती उसके पहला ग्रैमी पुरस्कार लिये  Best Jazz Male Vocal Performance .
Columbia Pictures released the film using the `` platform '' technique , which involved opening it in a few select cities , letting  धनात्मक शब्द of मुँह generate ब्याज , और तब धीरे expanding वितरण over subsequent  weeks .
When Harry Met Sally ... grossed a  कुल of us $ 92 .8 लाख in उत्तर अमेरिका  .
Ephron  प्राप्त a अंग्रेजों अकादमी फिल्मी पुरस्कार , an ऑस्कर नामांकन , और a लेखक  Guild of America Award nomination for her screenplay .
The film is ranked 23rd on AFI 's 100 Years ... 100 Laughs  सूची of the शीर्ष कॉमेडी films in अमरीकी सिनेमा और क्रमांक 60 on ब्रावो 's `` 100 funniest  Movies '' .
In early 2004 , the film was adapted for  the स्टेज in a उत्पादन अभिनीत ल्यूक पेरी  and Alyson Hannigan .
200px
Hamburger Helper is a line of packaged food products  primarily consisting of boxed पास्ता bundled साथ a पैकेट or पैकेट्स  of powdered sauce or seasonings .
The contents of each box are combined with  browned मैदान बीफ , जल और मिल्क to बनाएँ a पूरा  dish .
The product line  भी सुविधाएँ उत्पाद साथ अन्य starches ऐसे  as rice or potatoes instead of pasta .
it is बना  by General Mills .
हालांकि the क्लासिक boxed हैमबर्गर हेल्पर उत्पाद  only supply the starch item and the sauce packets , some varieties of the product include ground beef .
These include a frozen food line , which features some of the  ब्रांड 's क्लासिक किस्में in a पूरा भोजन kit रूप , साथ frozen मैदान बीफ और  frozen sauce packaged separately from the noodles in the same bag .
There is also an `` instant '' version of Hamburger Helper  containing निर्जलित मांस , नूडल्स और seasonings in a छोटी  pouch , requiring only water to be added .
The Hamburger Helper mascot is the `` Helping Hand '' , an  anthropomorphic एनिमेटेड , चार fingered left-hand दस्ताने , जिससे appears in the उत्पाद 's टेलीविज़न  commercials and on the packages .
ceres as देखी साथ the  Hubble Space Telescope .
It is the only  बौना ग्रह in the क्षुद्रग्रह  belt .
Pluto in  सन्निकट सच्चा रंग आधारित on  Hubble Space Telescope albedo data
Haumea with its  moons , hiʻiaka और namaka ( कलाकार  's conception )
माकेमाके ( कलाकार  's conception )
Eris and its moon  dysnomia as देखी साथ the हबल  Space Telescope
A dwarf planet is a planetary-mass object  कि is neither a ग्रह nor a उपग्रह  .
More explicitly , the International Astronomical Union ( IAU ) defines a dwarf planet as a celestial body in direct orbit of the Sun that is massive enough for its shape  to be नियंत्रित by gravitation , लकिन कि नापसंद a ग्रह रै नहीं साफ इसके कक्षीय  region of other objects .
The term dwarf planet was adopted in 2006 as part of a three-way categorization of bodies orbiting the Sun , brought about by an increase in  discoveries of trans-neptunian वस्तुएँ कि rivaled प्लूटो in आकार , और आखिरकार precipitated by the डिस्कवरी  of an even more massive object , Eris .
This classification states that bodies large enough to have cleared the  neighbourhood of उनके कक्षा हैं पारिभाषित as ग्रह , जबकि those कि हैं नहीं विशाल पर्याप्त to be rounded by उनके अपना गम्भीरता हैं  defined as small Solar System bodies .
Dwarf  ग्रह आइये in between  .
The  exclusion of बौना ग्रह इससे the रोस्टर of ग्रह by the iau रै महरूम दोनो praised और criticized ; it थी कहा to be the `` सही निर्णय '' by माइक  Brown , who discovered and other new dwarf planets , but has been rejected by Alan Stern , who had coined the term dwarf planet in 1990 .
The IAU  फिलहाल recognizes पाँच बौना ग्रह  in the Solar System : , Pluto , , , and .
However , only two of these  लाशें , ceres और प्लूटो , have महरूम observed in पर्याप्त विवरण  to demonstrate that they fit the definition .
Eris has been accepted as a dwarf  ग्रह क्युकी it is अधिक  massive than Pluto .
The IAU subsequently decided that unnamed trans-Neptunian objects with an absolute  परिमाण उज्जवल than +1 ( और hence a व्यास of ≥838 km assuming a ज्यामितीय ऐल्बीडो of ≤1 ) हैं to be नामित अंतर्गत  the assumption that they are dwarf planets .
The only two such objects known at the time , Makemake  और हउमेया , गई through इस नामकरण कार्यविधि और यहूद  declared to be dwarf planets .
It is  suspected कि another सौ or so ज्ञात वस्तुएँ in the  Solar System are dwarf planets .
Estimates are that up to 200 dwarf planets may be  मिला जब the संपूर्ण प्रदेश ज्ञात as the kuiper बेल्ट is छान , और कि the क्रमांक may exceed  10,000 when objects scattered outside the Kuiper belt are considered .
Individual astronomers recognize several of these  , और in अगस्त 2011 माइक भूरा प्रकाशित a सूची of 390 प्रत्याशी वस्तुएँ , ranging इससे  `` nearly certain '' to `` possible '' dwarf planets . '
Brown identifies nine known objects – the  पाँच स्वीकृत by the iau प्लस , , , और – as `` वस्तुतः निश्चित '' , साथ another  two dozen highly likely , and there are probably a hundred or so such objects in total .
The classification of bodies in other  ग्रहीय प्रणालियों साथ the विशेषताएँ  of dwarf planets has not been addressed .
A debit card ( also known as a bank card or check card ) is a plastic payment card that  provides the cardholder इलेक्ट्रॉनिक अभिगम to उसके or उसके बैंको खाता ( s ) at a वित्तीय संस्था  .
Some cards have a stored value with which a payment is made , while most relay a message to the cardholder 's  बैंको to withdraw निधि इससे a payee 's designated  bank account .
The card  , जहाँ स्वीकृत , can be प्रयुक्त  instead of cash when making purchases .
In some cases , the primary account  क्रमांक is आबंटित exclusively लिये उपयोग on the अंतरजाल और वहीँ is no  physical card .
In many  देशों , the उपयोग of डेबिट ताश रै become so फैली कि उनके आवाज़ रै  overtaken or entirely replaced cheques and , in some instances , cash transactions .
the विकास of डेबिट ताश , नापसंद क्रेडिट ताश और चार्ज ताश , रै  generally been country specific resulting in a number of different systems around the world , which were often incompatible .
Since the mid-2000s , a number of initiatives have allowed debit cards issued in one country to be used in other  देशों और अनुमत उनके उपयोग लिये अंतरजाल और फोन  purchases .
Unlike credit and charge cards , payments using a debit  कार्ड हैं तत्काल transferred इससे the cardholder 's designated बैंको खाता  , instead of them paying the money back at a later date .
Debit cards usually also allow for instant withdrawal of  नकदी , एक्टिंग as the एटीएम कार्ड लिये withdrawing नकदी  .
Merchants may also offer cashback facilities to  ग्राहक , जहाँ a ग्राहक can withdraw नकदी साथ साथ उनके खरीदें  .
Francois Henri `` Jack '' LaLanne ( September 26 , 1914 - January 23 , 2011 ) was an American  फ़िटनेस , कसरत , और nutritional विशेषज्ञ और प्रेरक स्पीकर जो is sometimes पुकारा `` the गॉडफादर  of fitness '' and the `` first fitness superhero . ''
He  वर्णित खुद as होने a `` sugarholic '' और a  `` junk food junkie '' until he was 15 .
He also had behavioral problems , but `` turned his  जीवन around '' बाद सुनना to a पब्लिक लेक्चर by पॉल ब्रैग  , a well-known nutrition speaker .
During his career , he came to believe that the country 's overall health depended on the health of its population , writing  कि `` शारीरिक संस्कृति और पोषण — is the मोक्ष  of America . ''
Decades before health and  फ़िटनेस began होने प्रचारित by हस्तियाँ जैसे जेन फोंडा और रिचर्ड सीमन्स , lalanne थी already widely  recognized for publicly preaching the health benefits of regular exercise and a good diet .
He published numerous books on fitness and  hosted a फ़िटनेस टेलीविज़न दिखाएँ between 1953 और 1985  .
As early as 1936 , at age 21 , he opened one of the nation 's  पहला फ़िटनेस gyms in ओकलैंड , कैलिफ़ोर्निया , जिससे became a प्रोटोटाइप लिये दर्जनों of समान gyms using  his name .
One of  उसके 1950s टेलीविज़न कसरत कार्यक्रम थी aimed toward महिलाओं , जिसको he भी प्रोत्साहित to  join his health clubs .
He invented a number of exercise  मशीने , सहित leg-extension  and pulley devices .
Besides producing his own series of videos , he coached the elderly and disabled not to  forgo कसरत , believing it होता enable उन्हें to बढ़ाएँ उनके शक्ति  .
LaLanne also  gained मान्यता लिये उसके कामयाबी as a bodybuilder , as  well as for his prodigious feats of strength .
Arnold Schwarzenegger once  stated , `` कि जोकर lalanne 's an एनिमल ! , '' बाद lalanne , at 54 , ताल  a 21-year-old Schwarzenegger `` badly '' in an informal contest .
On  the अवसर of lalanne 's मौत , श्वार्ज़नेगर credited lalanne लिये होने `` an apostle लिये फ़िटनेस '' by प्रेरणादायी `` अरबों  all over the world to live healthier lives , '' and , as governor of California , had earlier placed him on his Governor 's Council on Physical Fitness .
स्टीव रीव्स credited lalanne as उसके प्रेरणा  to build his muscular physique while keeping a slim waist .
He was inducted to the  कैलिफ़ोर्निया हॉल of कीर्ति और रै a स्टार  on the Hollywood Walk of Fame .
एयर शक्तियां of सबसे of the देशों उपयोग  system similar to Armies .
However , the RAF and the air forces of many Commonwealth countries , or those formerly under a British influence , use a different set of ranks loosely based on naval equivalents ; Lieutenant ,  कमांडर , कप्तान और commodore हैं prefixed लिये एयर फ़ोर्स उपयोग साथ उड़ान , wing , समूह और एयर , क्रमशः  ( the first three being the units that they used to command ) .
पेनेलोपे क्रूज़ sánchez ( ; born अप्रैल 28 ,  1974 ) is a Spanish actress .
Signed by an agent at age 15 , she made her acting debut at 16 on television  और उसके विशेषता फिल्मी डेब्यू the following साल in jamón , jamón ( 1992 ) ,  to critical acclaim .
Her subsequent roles in  the 1990s और 2000s शामिल खोलें अपना आँखें ( 1997 ) , the hi-lo देश  ( 1999 ) , The Girl of Your Dreams ( 2000 ) and Woman on Top ( 2000 ) .
Cruz achieved recognition for her lead  भूमिकाएँ in the 2001 films वैनिला  Sky and Blow .
She has since built a successful career , appearing in films from  a चौड़ी दायरा of जाति , सहित the कॉमेडी waking up in रेनो ( 2002 ) , the थ्रिलर gothika  ( 2003 ) , the Christmas movie Noel ( 2004 ) , and the action adventure Sahara ( 2005 ) .
She has received critical acclaim for her roles in Volver ( 2006 ) and Nine (  2009 ) receiving सुनहरी ग्लोब और अकादमी पुरस्कार nominations लिये प्रत्येक  .
She won the Academy Award  लिये बेहतरीन supporting अभिनेत्री in 2008  for Vicky Cristina Barcelona .
She was the first Spanish  अभिनेत्री in इतिहास to प्राप्त an अकादमी पुरस्कार और  the first Spanish actress to receive a star at the Hollywood Walk of Fame .
Cruz has modeled for companies  ऐसे as आम , ralph लॉरेन और  L'Oréal .
Penélope and her  younger सिस्टर mónica क्रूज़ have designed  items for Mango .
She  रै दान दोनो उसके  time and money to charities .
Cruz has volunteered in Uganda and India , where she spent one week working for Mother Teresa ;  वो दान उसके सैलरी इससे ' to सहायता निधि the लेट नन 's मिशन  .
A wax sculpture of Cruz will be  लगाई in a प्रीमियर स्पॉट in the grevin  Wax Museum in Paris .
File Explorer , previously known as Windows Explorer , is a file manager application and also a navigation tool that is  शामिल साथ रिलीज of the microsoft खिड़कियाँ ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली इससे खिड़कियाँ  95 onwards .
It provides a  आलेखीय उपयोक्ता इंटरफ़ेस लिये accessing the संचिका  systems .
It is also the component of the operating  प्रणाली कि presents अनेक उपयोक्ता इंटरफ़ेस वस्तुएं on the मॉनिटर  such as the taskbar and desktop .
Controlling the computer is possible without Windows Explorer running ( for example , the File | Run command in Task Manager on NT-derived  संस्करण of खिड़कियाँ होगा फलन बगैर it , as होगा कमांड typed in a कमांड संकेत  window ) .
Located in the C : \Windows directory , it is sometimes referred to as the Windows shell  , explorer.exe , or बस “explorer”  .
The Care Bears are  वर्ण निर्मित by अमरीकी बधाई in 1981  for use on greeting cards .
The original artwork for the cards  थी चित्रित by कलाकार एलेना kucharik .
In 1983 , Kenner turned the Care  bears into plush टेडी bears  .
The  परवाह bears appeared in उनके अपना tv specials पुकारा the परवाह bears in the  Land Without Feelings ( 1983 ) and The Care Bears Battle the Freeze Machine ( 1984 ) .
They also had their own  टेलीविज़न श्रेणी इससे 1985 to 1988 , in जोड to तीन विशेषता films : the परवाह bears फिल्म ( 1985 ) , परवाह bears फिल्म ii : a नई पीढी  ( 1986 ) , and The Care Bears Adventure in Wonderland ( 1987 ) .
Each Care  भालू आता in a अलग रंग और रै a specialized तमगा on इसके पेट कि  represents its duty and personality .
This insignia was  ज्ञात as उनके `` tummy प्रतीक  . ''
However , the movie Care Bears : Oopsy  करता it ! renamed उन्हें `` पेट बैज  '' .
Adding to the Care Bear family are the `` Care Bear Cousins '' , which feature a lion , rabbit , penguin ,  raccoon , और अन्य ऐसे पशु निर्मित in the वही स्टाइल as the टेडी  bears .
In 2002 , the bears were  reintroduced साथ नई खिलौने  .
Made by Play-Along Toys , the new toys  offered सुविधाएँ ऐसे as illuminated bellies upon टच , एरोबिक  bears , and glow-in-the-dark bears .
As part of this comeback , the Bears have appeared in two  computer-animated फिल्मों : परवाह bears : यात्रा to joke-a-lot ( 2004 ) और the परवाह bears ' बिग काश फिल्म ( 2005 ) .
In 2007 , the franchise celebrated its 25th anniversary ; another  relaunch took प्लेस , as खूब as the रिलीज of परवाह bears  : Oopsy Does It ! .
In mid-2011 , AG announced a revival TV  एनिमेटेड श्रेणी titled `` परवाह bears :  Welcome to Care-a-Lot `` .
The premiere of  the श्रेणी utilizes `` 30 सालो  of caring '' .
it premiered on  The Hub on June 2 , 2012 .
As of 2013 , Care Bears  merchandise is स्टिल होने  marketed .
During 2008 and 2009 , Canada 's Cookie Jar Group and  फ़्रांस 's moonscoop समूह attempted to acquire the मताधिकार  from AGC , with no apparent success .
Interstate 70 ( I-70 ) is an Interstate Highway  in the संयुक्त राज्य कि रनों इससे अंतरराज्यीय 15 निकट कोव  Fort , Utah , to a Park and Ride near Baltimore , Maryland .
It was the first Interstate  राजमार्ग प्रोजेक्ट in the  United States .
I-70  लगभग traces the पाथ of u.S. रूट 40 ( और  also the old National Road ) east of the Rocky Mountains .
West of the Rockies , the route of I-70 was  निकला इससे अनेक स्त्रोत  .
I-70 is the fifth longest  अंतरराज्यीय राजमार्ग ,  after I-90 , I-80 , I-40 , and I-10 .
The  निर्माण of i-70 in कोलोराडो और यूटा is माना an अभियान्त्रिकी आश्चर्य  as the route passes through the Eisenhower Tunnel , Glenwood Canyon , and the San Rafael Swell .
The Eisenhower Tunnel is the  उच्चतम पाइंट साथ the अंतरराज्यीय राजमार्ग  system with an elevation of .
The sections of  the अंतरराज्यीय in मिसौरी और कान्सास have रखी अर्जी  to be the first interstate in the United States .
Though disputed , the Federal Highway Administration has  claimed the खण्ड of i-70 through glenwood canyon , समाप्त in 1992 , थी the पिछला टुकड़ा  of the Interstate Highway system , as originally planned , to open to traffic .
फ़ोटो of 1999  total eclipse
As seen from the Earth , a solar eclipse occurs when the Moon passes between the Sun  और धरती , और the चंद्रमा fully or partially ब्लॉक  ( `` occults `` ) the Sun .
This can happen only  at नई चंद्रमा , जब the सूर्य और the चंद्रमा  are in conjunction as seen from Earth in an alignment referred to as syzygy .
In a total eclipse , the disk of the Sun  is fully obscured  by the Moon .
In partial and annular eclipses only  भाग of the सूर्य is obscured  .
If the Moon were in a perfectly circular orbit , a  छोटी करीब to the धरती , और in the वही कक्षीय प्लेन , वहीँ होता be कुल सौर eclipses प्रत्येक  single month .
However , the Moon 's orbit is inclined ( tilted ) at more than 5  डिग्री to धरती 's कक्षा around the सूर्य ( देखिए ecliptic ) so इसके छाया at नई चंद्रमा प्रायः चूकें  Earth .
Earth  's कक्षा is पुकारा the ecliptic प्लेन as the चंद्रमा 's कक्षा जरूर क्रॉस इस प्लेन in अनुक्रम लिये  an eclipse ( both solar as well as lunar ) to occur .
In addition , the Moon 's actual orbit is elliptical , often taking  it दूर पर्याप्त दूर इससे धरती कि इसके apparent आकार is नहीं विशाल पर्याप्त to ब्लाक the  Sun totally .
the कक्षीय planes क्रॉस प्रत्येक साल at a लकीर of नोड resulting in at तनिक दो , और up  to five , solar eclipses occurring each year ; no more than two of which can be total eclipses .
However , total solar eclipses are rare at any particular  स्थान क्युकी totality exists तभी साथ a सीमित पाथ on धरती 's  surface traced by the Moon 's shadow or umbra .
An  ग्रहण is a प्राकृतिक घटना  .
nevertheless , in कुछ प्राचीन और आधुनिक संस्कृतियों , सौर eclipses  have been attributed to supernatural causes or regarded as bad omens .
a कुल सौर ग्रहण can be frightening to लोगों जो हैं बेखबर of इसके खगोलीय  explanation , as the Sun seems to disappear during the day and the sky darkens in a matter of minutes .
Because it is dangerous to look directly at the Sun , observers should use special eye protection or  अप्रत्यक्ष देखने तकनीकों जब देखने a आंशिक ग्रहण , or the आंशिक  phases of a total eclipse .
It is safe to  दृश्य the कुल phase of a कुल सौर  eclipse with the unaided eye and without protection , however .
People referred to as eclipse  chasers or umbraphiles होगा सफर to रिमोट स्थितियाँ to observe  or witness predicted central solar eclipses .
A political party ( from , Genitive partis , `` part '' , ``  portion '' ) is a राजनैतिक संगठन कि typically seeks to influence  , or entirely control , government policy , usually by nominating candidates with aligned political views and trying to seat them in political office .
पार्टियों participate in चुनावी अभियान और  educational outreach or protest actions .
पार्टियों प्रायः espouse an विचारधारा or दृष्टि , expressed in a पार्टी कार्यक्रम  , bolstered by a written platform with specific goals , forming a coalition among disparate interests .
The mango is a fleshy stone fruit belonging  to the genus mangifera , consisting of numerous तीव्र fruiting पेड़ in the flowering संयंत्र परिवार  Anacardiaceae .
The mango is native to South Asia , from where it  रै महरूम वितरित विश्वव्यापी to become एक of  the most cultivated fruits in the tropics .
While other Mangifera species ( e.g . horse mango , M. foetida ) are also grown on a  अधिक स्थानीयकृत आधार , mangifera इंडिका – the 'common आम ' or 'इण्डियाn आम ' – is the तभी आम पेड़  commonly cultivated in many tropical and subtropical regions .
It is the national  फल of इण्डिया , पाकिस्तानी  and Philippines .
In several cultures , its fruit and leaves are ritually used as  पुष्पक सजावट at विवाह , पब्लिक जश्न और धार्मिक  ceremonies .
Gill  arnette byrd , < संदर्भ नाम > एचटीटीपी : //www.pro-football-reference.com/players/b/byrdgi00.htm  ( born February 20 , 1961 in San Francisco , California ) is a former professional American football player .
he थी a दो समय प्रो कटोरी cornerback in 1991 और 1992  for the San Diego Chargers after graduating from San Jose State University .
Byrd was  inducted into the chargers हॉल  of Fame in 1998 .
He  थी an all-city कार्यशील वापस और रक्षात्मक वापस at लोवेल ऊँची स्कूल ( सैन फ्रांसिस्को ) , helping to  lead the Cardinals to the city championship in his senior season of 1978 .
World map  प्रर्दशित the tropic of  Cancer
The Tropic of Cancer , also  referred to as the उत्तरी tropic , is the वृत्त of अक्षांश on the धरती कि marks the सबसे northerly  position at which the Sun may appear directly overhead at its zenith .
This event occurs once per year , at the time of the June  संक्रांति , जब the उत्तरी गोलार्ध is tilted toward the सूर्य to इसके अधिकतम  extent .
It currently ( Year 2013 )  झूठ at 23° 26′ 15.143′′ उत्तर of the equator  .
Its  दक्षिणी गोलार्ध बंटवारा , अंकन the सबसे southerly  position at which the Sun may appear directly overhead , is the Tropic of Capricorn .
These tropics are two of the  पाँच प्रमुख उपाधि उपायों or प्रमुख वृत्त of अक्षांश कि चिह्नित मानचित्र  of the Earth , besides the Arctic and Antarctic Circles and the Equator .
The positions of these circles of latitude ( other than  the equator ) हैं लिखवाई by the झुकाव of the धरती 's  axis of rotation relative to the plane of its orbit .
DVD-Video is a consumer video format used to store digital video on DVD discs , and is currently  the प्रबल उपभोक्ता वीडियो स्वरूप in एशिया , उत्तर अमेरिका , यूरोपीय , और ऑस्ट्रेलिया  .
Discs using the DVD-Video specification  आवश्यकता a dvd ड्राइव और an h.262/mpeg-2 भाग 2 डिकोडर  ( e.g. , a DVD player , or a computer DVD drive with a software DVD player ) .
Commercial DVD movies are encoded using a combination of H.262/MPEG-2 Part 2  संपीडित वीडियो और ऑडियो of varying स्वरुप ( प्रायः  multi-channel formats as described below ) .
Typically , the  आंकड़ा रेट लिये dvd फिल्मों सीमाएँ इससे 3 mbit/s to 9.5 mbit/s  , and the bit rate is usually adaptive .
it थी पहला उपलब्धियाँ  for retail around 1997 .
The DVD-Video specification was created  by dvd फ़ोरम और can be प्राप्त इससे dvd format/logo लाइसेंसिंग निगम लिये a शुल्क of  $ 5,000 .
The  specification is नहीं सरेआम उपलब्धियाँ , क्युकी  every subscriber must sign a non-disclosure agreement .
Certain information in  the dvd किताब is मालिकाना  and confidential .
In computing and  specifically अंतरजाल , a जोंक is एक जो लाभ , प्रायः deliberately , इससे अन्य ' सूचना or प्रयत्न लकिन करता नहीं प्रस्ताव  anything in return , or makes only token offerings in an attempt to avoid being called a leech .
In economics , this type of  बर्ताव is पुकारा `` फ़्री सवारी '' और is संबद्ध साथ the फ़्री सवार प्रॉब्लम  .
Depending on context , leeching does not necessarily refer to illegal use of computer resources , but  प्रायः बजाय to लालची उपयोग according to तहज़ीब : to wit , using too much of कया is freely दिए बगैर contributing a उचित  amount back to the community that provides it .
The name derives from  the जोंक , an एनिमल कि झंझट रक्त और  then tries to leave unnoticed .
अन्य शर्तें हैं प्रयुक्त ,  such as `` freeloader '' , but leech is the most common .
The full eagle logo , used in  विभिन्न संस्करण इससे 1970 to 1993  .
the संयुक्त राज्य डाक सेवा ( usps ) , भी ज्ञात as the पोस्ट दफ्तर और u.S. मेल ,  is an independent agency of the United States federal government responsible for providing postal service in the United States .
It is one of the few government agencies explicitly  प्राधिकृत by the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान  .
The USPS traces its roots to 1775 during the Second  महाद्वीपीय कॉंग्रेस , जहाँ बेंजामिन फ्रैंकलिन थी नियुक्त the पहला  postmaster general .
The cabinet-level Post Office Department was created in 1792 from Franklin 's operation and  रूपांतरित into इसके वर्तमान रूप in 1971 अंतर्गत the डाक reorganization  Act .
The USPS  employs over 574,000 मजदूर और operates  over 260,000 vehicles .
The USPS is the operator of the  largest गाडी बेड़े in the  world .
The USPS is legally  obligated to serve सब अमेरिकी , regardless of भूगोल ,  at uniform price and quality .
The USPS has exclusive access to letter boxes marked `` U.S. Mail '' and personal  letterboxes in the संयुक्त राज्य , लकिन स्टिल competes विरूद्ध निजी पैकेज डिलीवरी सेवाएं ,  such as UPS and FedEx .
The USPS has not directly received taxpayer-dollars since the early 1980s with  the नाबालिग एक्सेप्शन of subsidies लिये लागत संबद्ध साथ the  disabled and overseas voters .
Since  the 2006 all-time शिखर मेल आवाज़ , बाद जिससे कॉंग्रेस passed the डाक जवाबदेही और enhancement अधिनियम `` , ( जिससे mandated $ 5.5 अरब प्रति साल to be सशुल्क into an खाता to pre-fund retiree health-care , 75 सालो into the भविष्य , a आवश्यकता  unique among organizations and businesses in the U.S. ) , revenue dropped sharply due to recession-influenced declining mail volume , prompting the postal service to look to other sources of revenue while cutting costs to reduce its budget deficit .
वॉशिंगटन , d.C. रै महरूम the पूंजी  of the United States since 1800 .
Eight other cities have served as the meeting place for  कॉंग्रेस और हैं इसलिए माना to have एकबार महरूम the पूंजी of the संयुक्त राज्य  .
In addition , each of the 50 U.S. states  और the पाँच प्रिंसिपल territories of  the United States maintains its own capital .
राजकुमारी  cut diamond set in a ring
The Princess  काटें is the दूसरी सबसे लोकप्रिय  cut shape for diamonds , next to a round brilliant .
The face-up shape of the princess cut is square or rectangular and the profile or  side-on आकार is समान to कि of an उलट  pyramid with four beveled sides .
The princess cut is a relatively  नई डायमंड काटें , having  been created in the 1960s .
it रै gained in लोकप्रियता in हाल सालो as a अधिक distinctive वैकल्पिक to the अधिक लोकप्रिय गोलाकार शानदार काटें , in जिससे the शीर्ष of डायमंड , पुकारा the क्राउन  , is cut with a round face-up shape and the bottom , called the pavilion , is shaped similar to a cone .
A princess cut with the same width as the diameter of a  गोलाकार शानदार होगा तौल अधिक as it रै  four corners which would otherwise have been cut off and rounded to form a round brilliant .
The princess cut is  sometimes referred to as a वर्गाकार  modified brilliant .
However , while displaying the same high degree of brilliance  , इसके faceting स्टाइल is अद्वितीय और completely अलग इससे कि  of a round brilliant .
The Princess cut had its origins in the early `` French '' cut , having a  step-modified `` double-french '' or `` क्रॉस '' काटें क्राउन और a श्रेणी of अद्वितीय , chevron-shaped facets in the मण्डप जिससे combine to दे a पृथक cross-shaped प्रतिबिंब  when the stone is viewed directly through the table .
Effectively , the Princess cut combines  the ऊँची उपाधि of लाइट वापसी of a गोलाकार शानदार काटें साथ a distinctive  square or rectangular shape .
The square princess cut diamond is usually slightly cheaper than round brilliant cut diamonds of the same carat weight because it  retains परिचय 80 % of the अशिष्ट डायमंड , as opposed to the गोलाकार शानदार जिससे retains तभी परिचय  50 % of the rough .
The ability to  retain अधिक क्रिस्टल वज़न makes  this shape popular amongst diamond cutters .
accredited gem appraisers ( आगा ) और अमरीकी gem समाज प्रयोगशाला ( agsl )  and European Gem Laboratories-USA ( EGL-USA ) are currently the only labs that grade the Princess cut for cut .
There is no universal definition of what measurements make an ideal princess cut diamond and many  डायमंड निर्माताओं मार्केट आदर्श ईंट साथ differing facet पैटर्न और कोण as ``  ideal cut '' .
In  कंट्रास्ट to the agsl , आगा , और egl-usa the gemological संस्थान of अमेरिका ( gia ) रै stated कि वहीँ is नहीं पर्याप्त उद्योग सर्वसम्मति  or empirical data to specify cut grading standards for Princess cut diamonds and to do so is at the risk of consumers who may be deceived by diamonds accompanied by unqualified Ideal or Excellent cut grades .
The name `` Princess Cut '' was originally used in connection with another diamond cut  , वरना ज्ञात as the `` प्रोफ़ाइल '' काटें , designed by arpad nagy  , a London cutter , in 1961 .
The same name was later used and made popular by Ygal  पर्लमैन , betzalel ambar , और इसराईल itzkowitz  in Israel in 1979 .
A similar cut  साथ तभी 49 facets , as opposed to the असली 58 facets of the राजकुमारी काटें , थी बाद ब्रांडेड the  `` Quadrillion '' and initially distributed by Ambar Diamonds in Los Angeles .
Three years of optical research yielded a square  स्टोन साथ faceting समान to कि of a गोलाकार शानदार  cut diamond .
A  तुलना
The number of  chevrons can affect the overall आउटलुक of a  princess cut diamond .
This can usually be  संकल्पित by the तार आरेख कि is plotted  in diamond grading reports .
By adding more chevrons on the pavilion side  of the डायमंड , the व्यक्तिगत facets of the डायमंड  will now be broken down into smaller facets .
As a result , it can  दे a राजकुमारी काटें डायमंड a `` कुचल  ice '' look .
Vice versa , when a princess cut diamond has lesser chevrons , it  tends to दे the डायमंड a चंकी आउटलुक due to broader  facets .
The domestic dog ( Canis lupus familiaris ) is a subspecies  of the धूसर भेड़िया ( canis lupus ) , a सदस्य of the कैनिडाए परिवार  of the mammalian order Carnivora .
the पद `` घरेलू श्वान '' is generally  used for both domesticated and feral varieties .
The dog has been  the पहला एनिमल to be domesticated और रै महरूम the सबसे widely रखा working , शिकार , और  pet animal in human history .
The  शब्द `` श्वान '' may भी औसत the पुरूष of a canine प्रजाति  , as opposed to the word `` bitch '' for the female of the species .
MtDNA evidence shows an evolutionary split between the modern dog 's lineage and the modern wolf 's lineage around 100,000 years  पहले लकिन , , the oldest चट्टान नमूनों genetically linked to the आधुनिक श्वान 's lineage तिथि to लगभग  33,000-36,000 years ago .
Dogs ' value to early human hunter-gatherers led to them  जल्दी बनने सर्वव्यापी आरपार  world cultures .
Dogs perform many roles for people , such as hunting , herding ,  pulling loads , सुरक्षा , assisting पुलिस और सैन्य , companionship  , and , more recently , aiding handicapped individuals .
This impact on human  समाज रै दिए उन्हें the उपनाम `` man 's बेहतरीन dost '' in the पश्चिमी  world .
In some cultures ,  कुत्तो हैं भी a सोर्स  of meat .
In  2001 , वहीँ यहूद अनुमानित  to be 400 million dogs in the world .
Most breeds of dogs are at most a few  सौ सालो बूढ़ा , having महरूम artificially चयनित  for particular morphologies and behaviors by people for specific functional roles .
Through this selective breeding , the dog has  विकसित into सैंकड़ों of varied breeds , और shows अधिक behavioral और morphological  variation than any other land mammal .
For example , height measured to the withers ranges from in the Chihuahua to about in  the आयरिश wolfhound ; रंग varies इससे श्वेत through grays ( प्रायः पुकारा `` ब्लू '' ) to ब्लैक , और भूरा इससे  light ( tan ) to dark ( `` red '' or `` chocolate '' ) in a wide variation of patterns ; coats can be short or long , coarse-haired to wool-like , straight , curly , or smooth .
It is  आम लिये सबसे breeds to शेड  this coat .
Diagram of a  हस्तांतरण इलेक्ट्रॉन सूक्ष्मदर्शी
A 1973 Siemens electron  सूक्ष्मदर्शी , musée देस कला et métiers , पेरिस
An electron microscope (  em ) is a प्रकार of सूक्ष्मदर्शी कि उपयोग an इलेक्ट्रॉन बीम to illuminate a नमूना  and produce a magnified image .
An EM has greater resolving power than a light microscope and can reveal the structure of smaller objects because  electrons have wavelengths परिचय 100,000 टाइम्स shorter than दृश्य लाइट photons  .
They can achieve better than 50 pm resolution and magnifications of up to about 10,000,000x whereas ordinary ,  non-confocal लाइट microscopes हैं सीमित by विवर्तन to परिचय 200 nm रेज़ोल्यूशन और  useful magnifications below 2000x .
The electron microscope uses  electrostatic और इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक lenses to कंट्रोल the इलेक्ट्रॉन बीम और फ़ोकस it to रूप  an image .
These electron  ऑप्टिकल lenses हैं analogous to the कांच lenses of a लाइट  optical microscope .
Electron microscopes are  प्रयुक्त to investigate the ultrastructure of a चौड़ी दायरा of biological और अकार्बनिक नमूनों  including microorganisms , cells , large molecules , biopsy samples , metals , and crystals .
Industrially ,  the इलेक्ट्रॉन सूक्ष्मदर्शी is प्रायः प्रयुक्त लिये विशेषता कंट्रोल  and failure analysis .
Modern electron  microscopes उपज इलेक्ट्रॉन micrographs , using specialized डिजिटल  cameras or frame grabbers to capture the image .
Popeyes Louisiana Kitchen is a chain of fried chicken fast food restaurants  संस्थापित in 1972 in नई ऑरलियन्स , louisiana .
Often referred  to as popeyes और sometimes as popeyes मुर्गा & बिस्कुट or popeyes मुर्गा & seafood  , It was acquired by Sandy Springs , Georgia -based AFC Enterprises , originally America 's Favorite Chicken Company , in 1993 .
According to a company press release dated June 29 , 2007 , Popeyes is the second-largest `` quick-service chicken restaurant group , measured by number of  इकाई '' , साथ अधिक than 1,800 रेस्तरां in अधिक than 40 राज्य और the ज़िला of कोलंबिया , और over 22 देशों विश्वव्यापी सहित तुर्कों , उत्तरी साइप्रस , बहरीन , चीन , हांग काँग , इराकी , इंडोनेशिया , जॉर्डन , कुवैत ,  United Arab Emirates , Japan , Malaysia , Saudi Arabia , South Korea , Singapore , Canada , Jamaica , Guyana , Suriname , Mexico , Trinidad , Puerto Rico , Honduras , Vietnam , Panama , Peru , and Costa Rica .
परिचय तीस स्थितियाँ हैं company-owned  , the rest franchised .
The leg  दबायें is a वज़न प्रशिक्षण कसरत  in which the individual pushes a weight or resistance away from them using their legs .
The term leg press  भी refers to the apparatus प्रयुक्त to perform  this exercise .
The leg press can  be प्रयुक्त to evaluate an खिलाड़ी 's overall निम्नतर देह  strength ( from knee joint to hip ) .
using the तिर्यक  sled-type leg press machine .
There are two  प्रमुख प्रकार of लेग  press:
the तिर्यक or लंबवत  'sled ' type leg press .
Weight disks ( plates )  हैं संलग्न सीधे  to the sled , which is mounted on rails .
the उपयोक्ता sits नीचे the sled और pushes  it upward with their feet .
These machines normally  शामिल समायोज्य सुरक्षा कोष्ठक कि prevent the उपयोक्ता इससे होने  trapped under the weight .
The 'cable '  प्रकार लेग दबायें , or 'seated लेग दबायें '  , commonly found on multigyms .
The user sits upright and pushes forward with their feet onto a plate that is  संलग्न to the वज़न स्टेक by अर्थात् of a long स्टील केबल  .
Wendy Williams Hunter ( born Wendy Joan Williams ; July 18 , 1964 ) is an  अमरीकी मीडिया व्यक्तित्व , अभिनेत्री और  author .
She hosts a  syndicated टेलीविज़न बात दिखाएँ , the वेन्डी  Williams Show .
Prior to television , Williams was a ``  शॉक jockette `` on अनेक रेडियो shows  .
Williams has gained notoriety  लिये उसके on-air spats साथ  celebrities .
She was the subject of the 2006 VH1 reality TV series called  the वेन्डी विलियम्स अनुभव जिससे ब्रॉडकास्ट कार्यक्रम surrounding  her radio show .
She has written an  आत्मकथा और अनेक अन्य किताबे  , and has created a product line called Adorn by Wendy Williams .
Patrick Henry `` Treason '' speech before the  हाउस of burgesses in an 1851 पेंटिंग by पीटर  F. Rothermel
`` Give me liberty , or give me death ! '' is a quotation attributed to  पैट्रिक हेनरी इससे a वाक he बना to the वर्जिनिया सम्मेलन  .
On that day , at St. John 's Church in Richmond , Virginia ,  और is credited साथ having swung the संतुलन in convincing the वर्जिनिया हाउस of burgesses  to pass a resolution delivering the Virginia troops to the Revolutionary War .
Among  the delegates to the सम्मेलन यहूद भविष्य  US Presidents Thomas Jefferson and George Washington .
Newfoundland and Labrador ( ,  locally ) is the easternmost  province of Canada .
situated in the देश 's अटलांटिक प्रदेश , it incorporates the  island of Newfoundland and mainland Labrador to the northwest , with a combined area of .
In  2011 , the प्रांत  's population was 514,536 .
Approximately 92 percent of the province 's population lives on the Island of Newfoundland ( including its  संबद्ध छोटी आइलैंड्स ) , of जिससे अधिक than हाफ सजीव on the avalon  Peninsula .
The province is  कनाडा 's सबसे linguistically homogenous , साथ 97.6 %  of residents reporting English ( Newfoundland English ) as their mother tongue in the 2006 census ; .
Historically , Newfoundland was also home to unique varieties of  फ्रेंच , और आयरिश , as खूब as the now-extinct beothuk भाषा  .
In  labrador , लोकल dialects of innu-aimun  and Inuktitut are also spoken .
Newfoundland and  labrador 's पूंजी और largest नगर , st. जॉन 's , is कनाडा 's 20th-largest जनसांख्यिकी  Metropolitan Area , and is home to almost 40 percent of the province 's population .
St. John 's is the seat of government , home  to the हाउस of सभा of न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड और labrador और the उच्चतम अदालत in the क्षेत्राधिकार  , the Newfoundland and Labrador Court of Appeal .
A former colony and dominion of the  संयुक्त किंगडम , न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड और labrador became the दसवाँ प्रांत to डालें the कनाडाई  Confederation on March 31 , 1949 , as Newfoundland .
On December 6 , 2001 , an amendment was made to the Constitution  of कनाडा to बदलें the प्रांत 's आधिकारिक नाम to न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड  and Labrador .
In day-to-day conversation ,  however , canadians generally स्टिल refer to the प्रांत itself as न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड  and to the region on the Canadian mainland as Labrador .
Theodore  `` t.r .  ''
Roosevelt , Jr. ( ; October 27 ,  1858—january 6 , 1919 ) थी the 26th अध्यक्ष of the  United States ( 1901–1909 ) .
He is  विख्यात लिये उसके समृद्ध व्यक्तित्व , दायरा of रूचि और उपलब्धियाँ , और उसके नेतृत्व  of the Progressive Movement , as well as his `` cowboy `` persona and robust masculinity .
He was a leader of the Republican Party and founder of the first  अवतार of the short-lived प्रगतिशील ( `` सांड मूस ''  ) Party of 1912 .
Before becoming President , he held  कार्यालयों at the नगर , राज्य  , and federal levels .
रूज़वेल्ट 's उपलब्धियाँ as a naturalist , एक्सप्लोरर , शिकारी  , author , and soldier are as much a part of his fame as any office he held as a politician .
Roosevelt was 42 years old when sworn in  as अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य in 1901 , बनाना उसे the  youngest president ever ; he beat out the youngest elected president , John F. Kennedy , by only one year .
रूज़वेल्ट थी भी the पहला of तभी तीन बैठे  presidents to have won the Nobel Peace Prize .
The Teddy  भालू is नामित बाद उसे , despite उसके  contempt for being called `` Teddy '' .
Born into a wealthy family in New York City , Roosevelt was a  sickly चाइल्ड जो suffered इससे दमा और ठहरे  at home studying natural history .
to overcome उसके शारीरिक कमज़ोरी  , he embraced a strenuous life .
Home-schooled , he became  an eager छात्र of प्रकृति  .
He attended Harvard University  , जहाँ he पढ़ाई जीवविज्ञान , boxed और विकसित  an interest in naval affairs .
In 1881 , one year out of Harvard , he was elected to the  नई यॉर्क राज्य सभा , जहाँ he became a नेता of the सुधार  faction of his Republican Party ( the `` GOP '' ) .
His The Naval War of 1812 ( 1882 ) established  उसके पेशेवर प्रतिष्ठा as a गंभीर इतिहासकार ; he लिखा numerous  books on hunting , the outdoors , and current political issues , as well as frontier history .
In 1884  , उसके पहला बीवी और उसके माँ  died on the same day .
He temporarily left  राजनीती और गई to the frontier , बनने a rancher  in the `` Badlands '' in the Dakotas .
Returning to New  यॉर्क नगर , he भागा लिये महापौर in 1886 , finishing तीसरा  with 60,000 votes .
He later gained fame by taking  vigorous चार्ज of the नगर पुलिस  .
At  the नेशनल स्तर , he थी a  leader in civil service reform .
The Spanish–American War broke out  in 1898 जबकि रूज़वेल्ट थी , effectively , कार्यशील  the Department of the Navy .
He promptly  resigned और formed the अशिष्ट राइडर्स – a  volunteer cavalry regiment that fought in Cuba .
The war hero was elected governor in 1898 and  in 1900 थी मनोनीत लिये वाइस अध्यक्ष  .
He successfully  सक्रिय the gop आधार as a अत्यधिक दृश्य प्रचारक to reelect अध्यक्ष  William McKinley on a platform of high tariffs , the gold standard , imperialism , prosperity at home and victory abroad .
In 1901 , President William McKinley  थी assassinated और रूज़वेल्ट became  President .
He attempted to move the Republican Party ( GOP ) toward  प्रगतिवाद , सहित विश्वास busting और increased  regulation of businesses .
Roosevelt became the first person elected to a term in his own right in 1904 after having ascended to the Presidency ( from the Vice-Presidency ) upon  the मौत of उसके पूर्ववर्ती , जीतना the largest प्रतिशत of the लोकप्रिय  vote since the uncontested election of 1820 .
Roosevelt coined the  phrase `` वर्गाकार सौदे `` to describe उसके घरेलू कार्यसूची , emphasizing कि the औसत नागरिक  would get a fair share under his policies .
As an outdoorsman and  naturalist , he प्रचारित the संरक्षण  movement .
on the संसार स्टेज , रूज़वेल्ट 's नीतियों यहूद characterized  by his slogan , `` Speak softly and carry a big stick `` .
A cousin is a relative with whom a person shares one or more common  पूर्वज ( s ) ( अन्य than a जनक , child/descendant , सहोदर , child/descendant  of a sibling , or sibling of a parent/ancestor ) .
However in common  parlance , `` cousin '' सामान्यतः specifically  means `` first cousin '' .
Systems of `` degrees '' and ``  removals '' हैं प्रयुक्त in the english-speaking संसार to describe the सटीक संबंध between दो cousins  ( in the broad sense ) and the ancestor they have in common .
Various governmental entities have established systems for legal use that can more  precisely बताएँ kinships साथ आम पूर्वजो मौजूदा कोई क्रमांक of पीढियां in the पास्ट , हालांकि आम उपयोग प्रायः eliminates the डिग्री और removals और refers to लोगों साथ आम ancestry as बस `` दूर  cousins '' or `` relatives '' .
Webster is an American situation comedy that aired on ABC  इससे सितंबर 16 , 1983 जबतक may 8 , 1987 , और in first-run अनुप्रयोग इससे सितंबर  21 , 1987 until March 10 , 1989 .
The  श्रेणी थी निर्मित by  Stu Silver .
The show stars Emmanuel Lewis in the title role as a young boy who , after losing his  अभिभावक , is अपनाया by उसके एनएफएल -pro गॉडफादर , portrayed by एलेक्स karras , और उसके नई socialite बीवी , निभाई by सुसान  Clark .
The focus was largely on  कैसा इस impulsively शादीशुदा युगल था to समायोजन to उनके नई जीवनदान और अचानक  parenthood , but it was the congenial Webster himself who drove much of the plot .
the श्रेणी थी उत्पादित by जॉर्जियाई खाड़ी ltd. , emmanuel लुईस entertainment  Enterprises , Inc. ( 1986-1989 ) and Paramount Television .
Like NBC 's earlier hit  diff'rent स्ट्रोक्स , वेबस्टर प्रदर्शित a यंग african-american  boy adopted by a white family .
तीन प्रकार of कोशिका  division
Cell division is the process by which a parent cell  divides into दो or अधिक बेटी कोशिकाएं  .
Cell  प्रभाग प्रायः occurs as  part of a larger cell cycle .
In eukaryotes , there are two distinct type of cell division : a vegetative division , whereby each daughter cell is  genetically एकसमान to the जनक कोशिका ( समसूत्रण ) , और a reductive कोशिका प्रभाग , whereby the क्रमांक of गुणसूत्रों in the  daughter cells is reduced by half , to produce haploid gametes ( meiosis ) .
Both of these cell division cycles are required in  sexually reproducing जीवों at कुछ पाइंट in उनके जीवन साईकिल , और दोनो हैं believed to be उपस्थित in the पिछला eukaryotic आम पूर्वज prokaryotes भी undergo a vegetative कोशिका प्रभाग ज्ञात as शब्दकोष परिवर्द्धन  , where their genetic material is segregated equally into two daughter cells .
All cell divisions , regardless of  सजीव , हैं preceded by a सिंगल गोलाकार of डीएनए replication  .
For simple  एककोशिकीय जीवों ऐसे as the amoeba , एक कोशिका प्रभाग is समतुल्य  to reproduction – an entire new organism is created .
On a larger scale ,  mitotic कोशिका प्रभाग can बनाएँ progeny इससे बहुकोशिकीय  organisms , such as plants that grow from cuttings .
Cell division also enables  sexually reproducing जीवों to develop इससे the one-celled zygote  , which itself was produced by cell division from gametes .
And after growth , cell division allows for  continual निर्माण और मरम्मत of the  organism .
A human being 's  देह अनुभवों परिचय 10,000 खरब कोशिका  divisions in a lifetime .
Cell division has  महरूम modeled by परिमित  subdivision rules .
The primary concern of cell division is the  मेंटेनेंस of the असली कोशिका 's  genome .
Before division can occur , the genomic information that is stored in  गुणसूत्रों जरूर be replicated , और the duplicated genome जरूर be अलग cleanly  between cells .
A  ग्रेट सौदे of सेल्यूलर अवसंरचना is शामिल in keeping  genomic information consistent between `` generations '' .
Mountain  सीमाएँ of मैसाचुसेट्स  , United States .
Howard Jones ( born John Howard Jones , 23 February 1955 ,  southampton , हैम्पशायर , इंग्लैण्ड ) is a अंग्रेजों संगीतकार , सिंगर  and songwriter .
According to the Guinness Book of British Hit  singles & एल्बम , `` जोन्स is an संपन्नता singer-songwriter जो थी a नियमित चार्ट आगंतुक in the mid-1980s  with his brand of synthpop .
Jones , who was  बराबर लोकप्रिय in the u.S. , appeared  at Live Aid `` .
Allmusic journalist ,  स्टीफन थामस erlewine adds , `` जोन्स थी एक of the धमक आंकड़े  of mid-1980s synthpop .
His music merged the technology  intensive ध्वनि of नई वेव साथ  the cheery optimism of hippies and late 1960s pop .
Jones racked up a string of hits in the mid and late 1980s , before he retreated  into होने a cult फिगर in the 1990s  '' .
The International Isle of Man TT ( Tourist Trophy ) Race is a motorcycle racing event held on the Isle  of man और थी लिये अनेक सालो the सबसे prestigious  motorcycle race in the world .
The event  थी भाग of the fim मोटरसाइकिल ग्रैंड प्रिक्स संसार चैंपियनशिप दौरान the काल 1949–1976 पहले होने  transferred to the United Kingdom after safety concerns and run by the FIM as the British Grand Prix for the 1977 season .
The Isle of Man TT Races  became भाग of the tt सूत्र 1 चैंपियनशिप इससे 1977  to 1990 to preserve the event 's racing status .
From 1989 the  रेसिंग रै महरूम विकसित by the आइल of man विभाग  of Tourism as the Isle of Man TT Festival .
The race is run in a time-trial format  on पब्लिक सड़कें बंद लिये रेसिंग by the प्रावधानों of an अधिनियम of tynwald ( the पार्लियामेंट  of the Isle of Man ) .
The first race was held on Tuesday 28 May 1907 and was  पुकारा the अंतरराष्ट्रीय auto-cycle पर्यटक ट्रॉफी  .
The event was organised by  the auto-cycle क्लबों over 10 गोद of the st जॉन 's छोटी कोर्स of 15 मील 1,470 गज लिये road-legal touring मोटरसाइकिल  with exhaust silencers , saddles , pedals and mud-guards .
The winner of the single-cylinder class , and overall winner of  the पहला इवेंट in 1907 , थी चार्ली collier सवारी a matchless मोटरसाइकिल  in a time of 4 hours , 8 minutes and 8 seconds at an average race speed of 38.21 mph .
The winner of the twin-cylinder  क्लास थी rem fowler सवारी a peugeot एंजिन नॉर्टन in a समय of 4 घंटों  21 minutes and 52 seconds at an average race speed of 36.21 mph .
The trophy presented to Charlie Collier as the winner of the 1907  आइल of man tt रेस , थी दान by the  Marquis de Mouzilly St. Mars .
It featured a stylised  संस्करण of ओलम्पिक परमेश्वर hermes by giovanni  Da Bologna as a silver figurine astride a winged wheel .
The trophy was similar in design to the 18 carat gold Montague Trophy presented to John  नेपियर ( arrol-johnston ) as the inaugural विजेता of the आइल of man पर्यटक ट्रॉफी car रेस in 1905 अभी ज्ञात  as the RAC Tourist Trophy .
The Marquis de  mouzilly st. मंगल ट्रॉफी  is now presented annually to the winner of the Isle of Man Senior TT Motor-Cycle Race .
The 2007 Isle of Man TT  थी the centenary इवेंट जिससे भागा between 26 may और 8 जून 2007 और प्रदर्शित a खास re-enactment of the 1907  Isle of Man TT Race held on the village green next to Tynwald Hill in St John 's on Monday 28 May 2007 .
The vintage parade of 100 classic motorcycles for the Centenary  re-enactment on the असली st जॉन 's छोटी कोर्स थी flagged दूर by पूर्व  World Motor-Cycle Champion Geoff Duke .
The first of the  भागीदार to be flagged दूर थी the recently लौटी  twin-cylinder Peugeot-Norton ridden by Rem Fowler during the first Isle of Man TT Race in 1907 .
भी participating in the 2007 re-enactment थी tt रेस प्रतिस्पर्धी guy मार्टिन सवारी a 1938  Triumph Tiger 100 500 cc and other former TT competitors including Alan Cathcart , Sammy Miller , Nick Jefferies and Mick Grant also completed the Re-enactment lap .
upright=1.15
Unemployment (  or joblessness ) occurs जब लोगों हैं  without work and actively seeking work .
The  बेरोजगारी रेट is a माप of the व्यापकता of बेरोजगारी और it  is calculated as a percentage by dividing the number of unemployed individuals by all individuals currently in the labor force .
During periods of recession , an economy  प्रायः अनुभवों a अपेक्षाकृत ऊँची बेरोजगारी  rate .
According to International Labour Organization  रपट , अधिक than 197 लाख लोगों globally हैं आउट of कार्य or 6 % of the  world 's workforce were without a job in 2012 .
There remains considerable  सैद्धांतिक बहस regarding the कल्याणकारी , consequences  and solutions for unemployment .
Classical economics , New classical economics , and the Austrian School of economics argue that  मार्केट mechanisms हैं विश्वसनीय अर्थात् of resolving  unemployment .
These theories argue against interventions imposed on the  मजदूर मार्केट इससे the बाहर , ऐसे as unionization , न्यूनतम मजदूरी कानून , कर  , and other regulations that they claim discourage the hiring of workers .
Keynesian  अर्थशास्त्र emphasizes the cyclical प्रकृति of बेरोजगारी और  recommends government interventions in the economy that it claims will reduce unemployment during recessions .
This theory focuses on recurrent shocks that  एकाएक reduce कुल माँग लिये goods और सेवाएं और यूँ  reduce demand for workers .
Keynesian models recommend government interventions designed to  बढ़ाएँ माँग लिये मजदूर ; ये can शामिल वित्तीय stimuli , सरेआम वित्तपोषित  job creation , and expansionist monetary policies .
In addition to these comprehensive theories of unemployment , there are a few  categorizations of बेरोजगारी कि हैं प्रयुक्त to अधिक precisely मॉडल the प्रभाव  of unemployment within the economic system .
The main types of unemployment include structural unemployment which focuses on structural  समस्याएं in the अर्थव्यवस्था और inefficiencies अंतर्निहित in श्रमिक बाज़ार , सहित a बेमेल between  the supply and demand of laborers with necessary skill sets .
संरचनात्मक वितर्क emphasize कल्याणकारी  and solutions related to disruptive technologies and globalization .
Discussions of frictional  बेरोजगारी फ़ोकस on voluntary निर्णय to कार्य आधारित on प्रत्येक individuals ' valuation of उनके  own work and how that compares to current wage rates plus the time and effort required to find a job .
Causes and  समाधान लिये frictional बेरोजगारी प्रायः पता  job entry threshold and wage rates .
Behavioral economists highlight  व्यक्तिगत biases in निर्णय बनाना , और प्रायः involve  problems and solutions concerning sticky wages and efficiency wages .
Collectivism is any philosophic , political , religious  , आर्थिक , or सोशल आउटलुक कि emphasizes the interdependence of प्रत्येक  human being in a society or civilization .
Collectivism is a basic cultural element that exists as the reverse  of व्यक्तिगत in इंसान प्रकृति ( in the वही रास्ता ऊँची कॉन्टेक्स्ट संस्कृति exists as  the reverse of low context culture ) .
Collectivist orientations stress the importance of cohesion within social groups ( such as an ``  in-group '' , in कया विशिष्ट कॉन्टेक्स्ट it is पारिभाषित ) और in कुछ मामले , the प्रधानता of समूह लक्ष्य over व्यक्तिगत  goals .
Collectivists often focus on  जातियाँ , समाज , स्वदेश  or country .
It has been used as an element in many different and diverse types of government and political , economic and educational philosophies throughout history  और सबसे इंसान समाजों in अभ्यास contain तत्व of दोनो व्यक्तिगत और collectivism  .
Some examples of collectivist  संस्कृतियों शामिल इण्डिया  and Japan .
Collectivism can be divided into horizontal  collectivism और लंबवत  collectivism .
Horizontal collectivism stresses collective decision-making among equal  individuals , और is यूँ प्रायः आधारित on decentralization और समतावाद  .
Vertical collectivism is based on  hierarchical structures of शक्ति और on moral और सांस्कृतिक conformity , और is इसलिए आधारित  on centralization and hierarchy .
A cooperative enterprise would be an example of horizontal collectivism , whereas a military  पदानुक्रम होता be an उदाहरण  of vertical collectivism .
Acute disseminated  encephalomyelitis ( adem ) is an प्रतिरक्षा  mediated disease of the brain .
It usually occurs following a viral infection but may appear following  टीकाकरण , बैक्टीरियल or parasitic संक्रमण , or भी appear अनायास  .
As it involves autoimmune demyelination ,  it is समान to अनेक काठिन्य , और is माना  part of the Multiple sclerosis borderline diseases .
The incidence  रेट is परिचय 8 प्रति 1,000,000 लोगों  per year .
Although it occurs in all ages , most reported cases are in children and adolescents ,  साथ the औसत आयु around 5 to 8 सालो बूढ़ा  .
The mortality rate may be as high as 5 % , full  रिकवरी is देखी in 50 to 75 % of मामले , जबकि up to 70 to 90 % रिकवर  with some minor residual disability .
The average time to  रिकवर is एक to छह  months .
ADEM produces multiple  जलन lesions in the दिमाग और स्पाइनल cord , विशेषकर in the श्वेत पदार्थ  .
Usually these are found in the subcortical and central white matter and cortical gray-white  जंक्शन of दोनो दिमागी बांटती , cerebellum , brainstem , और स्पाइनल cord , लकिन periventricular श्वेत पदार्थ और धूसर पदार्थ of the cortex , thalami और basal ganglia may  also be involved .
When the patient suffers more than one demyelinating episode , it is called recurrent disseminated encephalomyelitis or  multiphasic disseminated encephalomyelitis (  MDEM ) .
The stomach is a muscular , hollow , dilated part of the digestion system which functions as an important organ of the  digestive ट्रैक्ट in कुछ पशु , सहित vertebrates , echinoderms  , insects ( mid-gut ) , and molluscs .
It is involved in the second phase of  पाचन , following  mastication ( chewing ) .
The stomach is  स्तिथ between the ग्रासनाल और the छोटी आंत  .
It secretes protein-digesting enzymes called protease and strong acids to aid in food digestion , (  भेजा to it via esophageal peristalsis ) through चिकना muscular contortions ( पुकारा segmentation ) पहले sending partially  digested food ( chyme ) to the small intestines .
The word stomach is derived from the Latin stomachus which is derived from the Greek word  stomachos ( στόμαχος ) , ultimately इससे stoma ( ) , `` मुँह  '' .
The words gastro- and gastric (  अर्थ सम्बन्धित to the पेट ) हैं दोनो निकला इससे the यूनानी  word gaster ( ) .
1940 Pontiac  खास श्रेणी  25 Woodie
A woodie is a car body style , especially a station wagon , where the rear bodywork is constructed of  लकडी फ्रेमवर्क साथ infill panels of लकडी or चित्रित मेटल  .
After the demise of actual wood construction , manufacturers used  अनुकरण woodgrain चादर vinyl—sometimes augmented  with three-dimensional , simulated framework—to recall wood construction .
In 2008 ,  लकडी निर्माण थी जगाई abstractly on the घाट फ्लेक्स साथ a श्रेणी  of side and rear horizontal grooves .
A pearl is a hard object  उत्पादित भीतर the नरम ऊतक ( specifically the mantle  ) of a living shelled mollusc .
Just like the shell of a clam , a  पर्ल is बना up of कैल्सियम कार्बोनेट in मिनट crystalline रूप , जिससे रै महरूम deposited in  concentric layers .
The ideal  पर्ल is perfectly गोलाकार और चिकना  , but many other shapes of pearls ( baroque pearls ) occur .
The finest quality natural pearls have been highly valued as gemstones and  वस्तुएँ of सौंदर्य लिये अनेक सदियां , और क्युकी of इस , the शब्द पर्ल रै become a रूपक लिये कुछ  very rare , fine , admirable , and valuable .
the सबसे मूल्यवान मोती occur अनायास in the  wild , but they are extremely rare .
These wild pearls are  referred to as प्राकृतिक मोती .
संस्कारी or farmed मोती इससे पर्ल oysters और freshwater  mussels make up the majority of those that are currently sold .
Imitation pearls are also widely  बेची in inexpensive आभूषण , लकिन the विशेषता of उनके iridescence is प्रायः बहुत ग़रीब , और प्रायः , कृत्रिम मोती  are easily distinguished from genuine pearls .
Pearls have been harvested and cultivated  primarily लिये उपयोग in आभूषण , लकिन in the पास्ट वे यहूद भी सिले onto lavish कपडे  .
Pearls have also been crushed and used in  कॉस्मेटिक्स , दवाइयाँ , और in पेंट formulations  .
Whether wild or cultured , gem quality pearls are almost always  nacreous और , as is the आंतरिक of the शेल  that produces them .
However , almost all species of shelled molluscs are capable of  producing मोती ( formally referred to as `` calcareous concretions  '' by some sources ) of lesser shine or less spherical shape .
Although these may also be legitimately referred to as `` pearls '' by gemological labs and also  अंतर्गत u.S. संघीय व्यापार आयोग नियम , और हैं formed in  the same way , most of them have no value , except as curiosities .
bing ( ज्ञात previously as सजीव ढूंढें , खिड़कियाँ सजीव ढूंढें  , and MSN Search ) is a web search engine ( advertised as a `` decision engine `` ) from Microsoft .
Bing was unveiled by Microsoft CEO Steve  बाल्मर on may 28 , 2009 at the सब  Things Digital conference in San Diego for release on June 1 .
Notable changes include the listing of search  सुझाव जबकि प्रश्नों हैं डाला और a सूची of सम्बन्धित खोज ( पुकारा `` explore फलक '' ) आधारित on semantic  technology from Powerset which Microsoft purchased in 2008 .
On July 29 , 2009 , Microsoft  और याहू ! घोषित a सौदे in  which Bing would power Yahoo ! Search .
All Yahoo !  ढूंढें वैश्विक ग्राहक और साझेदार हैं अपेक्षित  to have made the transition by early 2012 .
In October 2011 , Bing announced it was working on new back-end search  अवसंरचना , साथ the लक्ष्य of delivering तेज़ और थोड़ा अधिक प्रासंगिक ढूंढें परिणाम  for users .
Known as `` Tiger  '' , the नई index-serving प्रौद्योगिकी रै महरूम incorporated into bing  globally , since August 2011 .
In May 2012 , Bing announced another redesign of its search engine that includes `` Sidebar  '' , a सोशल विशेषता कि खोज उपयोक्ता ' सोशल संजाल लिये सूचना प्रासंगिक to the  search query .
A diagram showing an I  गठन on ठोकर और a 4-3 गठन  on defense
in अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल , प्रत्येक टोली रै ग्यारह  players on the field at one time .
The specific role that a player takes on  the फ़ील्ड is पुकारा उनके स्थिति  .
Under the modern rules of American football , teams are allowed unlimited subsititutions ,  कि is टीमों may बदलें कोई क्रमांक of  players after any play .
This has resulted in the development of three `` platoons '' of players , the offense ( the team with the ball ,  जो is trying to स्कोर ) , the रक्षा ( the टोली trying to prevent the अन्य टोली इससे स्कोरिंग , और to लो the बॉल इससे उन्हें ) , और  the special teams ( who play in kicking situations ) .
Within those platoons , various specific positions  मौजूद depending on कया the खिलाड़ी 's प्रमुख  job is .
The Irish people ( or na hÉireannaigh ;  ulster-scots : airish fowk ) हैं an जातीय समूह जो originate  in Ireland , an island in northwestern Europe .
आयरलैंड रै महरूम आबादी लिये around 9,000  years ( according to archaeological studies , see Prehistoric Ireland ) .
The Irish people 's earliest ancestors are recorded in legends – they are claimed to be  descended इससे समूह ऐसे as the nemedians , fomorians , fir bolg  , Tuatha Dé Danann and the Milesians .
Lebor Gabála Érenn , a book  of आयरिश mythology tells कि milesians यहूद  Scythian descendants .
The main groups that interacted with the Irish  in the मध्य आयु शामिल  the Picts , Scots , and the Vikings .
Due to this  सम्पर्क , icelanders हैं विख्यात लिये having  some Irish descent .
The Anglo-Norman invasion of  the ऊँची मध्य आयु , the अंग्रेज़ी बागानों और the subsequent अंग्रेज़ी नियम of the देश introduced the normans और  Flemish into Ireland .
Welsh , Picts , Bretons , and small parties of Gauls and even  anglo-saxons हैं ज्ञात in आयरलैंड इससे much  earlier times .
वहीँ have महरूम अनेक notable  Irish people throughout history .
The 6th century Irish monk and missionary Columbanus is regarded as one of the  `` fathers of यूरोपीय '' , followed by kilian of würzburg  and Vergilius of Salzburg .
The scientist Robert Boyle is considered the ``  पिता of रसायन  `` .
Famous Irish explorers  शामिल ब्रेंडन the नाविक , रॉबर्ट mcclure , अर्नेस्ट shackleton  and Tom Crean .
By some accounts , the first European child born in North America had Irish descent on both  पहलू ; और an irishman थी the पहला यूरोपीय to नियत पैर on अमरीकी मृदा in कोलंबस ' expedition of 1492  .
There are  वंशजों of आयरिश लोगों जीना in अनेक पश्चिमी  countries , particularly in English-speaking countries .
historically , करणों रै महरूम caused by  politics , famine and economic issues .
An estimated 50 to 80 million people are descendants of Irish people , primarily in the United Kingdom ,  the संयुक्त राज्य , ऑस्ट्रेलिया , कनाडा और आइसलैंड ; वहीँ हैं भी छोटी संख्याएँ in अर्जेंटीना , चिली , मैक्सिको , जमैका , बारबाडोस , दक्षिण  Africa , New Zealand , France , Germany and Brazil .
The largest  क्रमांक of वंशजों of आयरिश लोगों  live in the United States .
The number of people living in Australia who are of  आयरिश descent is उच्चतर , as a प्रतिशत  of total population , than that of any other country .
Approximately forty percent  of the उपनिवेश जनसांख्यिकी of आइसलैंड आए  from Ireland or Scotland .
The very  पहला निवासियों of  Iceland were Irish .
The Hubble Space Telescope ( HST ) is a space telescope that was  carried into कक्षा by a स्पेस  Shuttle in 1990 and remains in operation .
A aperture telescope in low Earth  कक्षा , हबल 's चार प्रमुख यंत्र observe in the निकट पराबैंगनी , दृश्य  , and near infrared .
The telescope is  नामित बाद the astronomer एडविन  Hubble .
Hubble 's orbit outside the distortion of  धरती 's माहौल allows it to लो अत्यधिक शार्प बिंब साथ लगभग no  background light .
Hubble 's Deep Field have been some of the most  विस्तृत visible-light बिंब कभी , allowing  a deep view into space and time .
Many Hubble observations have led to breakthroughs in astrophysics  , ऐसे as accurately determining the रेट of विस्तार of the  universe .
Although not the first space telescope ,  हबल is एक of the largest और सबसे बहुमुखी , और is खूब ज्ञात as दोनो a vital शोध औजार और  a public relations boon for astronomy .
The HST was built by the United States space agency NASA , with contributions from the European  स्पेस एजेंसी , और is संचालित by the स्पेस दूरदर्शी विज्ञान संस्थान  .
The HST is one of NASA 's Great Observatories , along with the Compton Gamma  रे वेधशाला , the चन्द्रा x-ray वेधशाला , और the स्पिट्जर  Space Telescope .
Space  telescopes यहूद प्रस्तावित as  early as 1923 .
Hubble was funded in the 1970s , with  a प्रस्तावित लॉन्च in 1983 , लकिन the प्रोजेक्ट थी घिरा by  technical delays , budget problems , and the Challenger disaster .
When finally launched in 1990 , scientists found that the main mirror had been ground  incorrectly , compromising the दूरदर्शी 's सामर्थ्य  .
The telescope was restored to  इसके intended विशेषता by a सर्विसिंग मिशन in 1993  .
Hubble is the  तभी दूरदर्शी designed to be सर्विस  in space by astronauts .
Between 1993 and 2002 , four missions repaired , upgraded , and  replaced प्रणालियों on the दूरदर्शी ; a पांचवां मिशन थी रद्द on सुरक्षा grounds  following the Columbia disaster .
However , after spirited public  चर्चा , नासा व्यवस्थापक माइक griffin स्वीकृत एक फाइनल  servicing mission , completed in 2009 by Space Shuttle Atlantis .
The telescope is now  अपेक्षित to फलन जबतक at तनिक  2013 .
Its  वैज्ञानिक successor , the जेम्स webb स्पेस दूरदर्शी (  JWST ) , is to be launched in 2018 or possibly later .
Anti-inflammatory refers  to the प्रॉपर्टी of a पदार्थ or उपचार  that reduces inflammation .
Anti-inflammatory drugs make up  परिचय हाफ of analgesics , remedying पीड़ा by reducing सूजन as opposed  to opioids , which affect the central nervous system .
The Tonight Show is a  us late-night बात दिखाएँ कि रै aired on  NBC since 1954 .
It is the longest currently running regularly scheduled entertainment program in the US and the  तीसरा longest-running दिखाएँ on एनबीसी बाद मिलें the दबायें और  Today .
The Tonight Show was hosted by Steve Allen ( 1954–1957 ) , Jack Paar (  1957–1962 ) , जॉनी कार्सन ( 1962–1992 ) , jay लीनो ( 1992–2009 , 2010–present ) , और कोनन o'brien (  2009–2010 ) .
Several  अतिथि होस्ट भी appeared , विशेषकर  during the Paar and Carson eras .
The longest-serving host to date was Johnny Carson , who hosted The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson for 30  सीज़न इससे the पतन of 1962 through the वसन्त  of 1992 .
The current host of the show is Jay Leno , who had previously  hosted the दिखाएँ इससे 1992 to 2009 और began उसके दूसरी कार्यकाल on कूच  1 , 2010 .
On April 3 , 2013 , NBC announced Jimmy  fallon होता become the नई मेजबान of the tonight  Show .
The  tonight दिखाएँ साथ jimmy fallon होगा प्रीमियर फ़रवरी 24 , 2014  , the day after the closing ceremonies of the 2014 Winter Olympics .
ss एंड्रिया डोरिया  .
Pronounced was an ocean liner for the Italian Line ( Società di navigazione Italia )  घर ported in जेनोआ , इटली , सबसे प्रसिद्ध लिये इसके डूब in 1956 , जब  52 people died ( 51 from immediate impact ) .
Named after the 16th-century Genoese admiral Andrea Doria , the ship had a  सकल पंजीकरण tonnage of 29,100 और a क्षमता of परिचय 1,200 यात्री  and 500 crew .
For a country attempting to  rebuild इसके अर्थव्यवस्था और प्रतिष्ठा बाद संसार युद्ध ii , एंड्रिया डोरिया  was an icon of Italian national pride .
Of all Italy 's ships at the time , Andrea Doria  थी the largest , तीव्रतम और माना  safest .
शुभारम्भ on 16 जून 1951 , the जलयान undertook  its maiden voyage on 14 January 1953 .
On 25 July 1956 , while the  एंड्रिया डोरिया थी approaching the coast of nantucket , मैसाचुसेट्स , बंधी लिये नई यॉर्क नगर , the eastbound of  the Swedish American Line collided with it in what became one of history 's most infamous maritime disasters .
Struck in the side , the top-heavy Andrea Doria immediately  प्रारंभ to सूची severely to स्टारबोर्ड , जिससे बाएँ हाफ of इसके lifeboats  unusable .
The consequent  shortage of lifeboats might have resulted in significant घाटा of जीवन , लकिन the दक्षता of the  ship 's technical design allowed it to stay afloat for over 11 hours after the ramming .
The good behavior of the crew , improvements in communications  और the रैपिड जवाब of अन्य जहाजों averted a विपत्ति समान in  scale to that of the in 1912 .
1,660 passengers and crew were rescued  और बच , जबकि 46 लोगों died as a consequence  of the collision .
the evacuated लक्ज़री लाइनर capsized  and sank the following morning .
This accident  remains the worst मेरीटाइम विपत्ति to occur  in United States waters since the sinking of the in 1915 .
The incident and its aftermath  यहूद heavily covered by the न्यूज  media .
While the rescue  प्रयत्न यहूद दोनो कामयाब और commendable , the कारण of the टक्कर साथ the स्टॉकहोम और  the loss of Andrea Doria generated much interest in the media and many lawsuits .
Largely because of an out-of-court  उपनिवेश अनुबंध between the दो शिपिंग कंपनियाँ दौरान hearings तत्काल बाद  the disaster , no determination of the cause ( s ) was ever formally published .
Although greater blame appeared initially to fall on the Italian liner , more recent discoveries have indicated  कि a misreading of रडार on the स्वीडिश जलयान may have initiated the टक्कर कोर्स , अग्रणी to त्रुटियाँ on दोनो जहाजों .
Andrea Doria was the last major transatlantic  यात्री पोत to डूबना पहले वायुयान became the पसन्दीदा  method of travel .
Dialysis  tubing
डायलिसिस tubing is a प्रकार of सेमi- or  partially permeable membrane tubing made from regenerated cellulose or cellophane .
It can be used for diffusion with  solutes or परासरण if प्रयुक्त साथ जल  only .
Osmosis is when water passes through a  semi-permeable परत to पहुँचें संतुलन  .
Diffusion  , on the अन्य हाथ , allows the गति  of molecules from high concentration to low concentration .
It will only allow molecules to pass through a  semi-permeable झिल्ली or परत if the अणु is छोटी पर्याप्त to अनुरूप through  the membrane or a membrane 's pore .
This usually results with the effects of diffusion  through a झिल्ली तभी वाकई affects छोटी अणुओं , और लगभग never larger  molecules .
डायलिसिस tubing is प्रयुक्त in नैदानिक हालातों to ensure a filtered  flow of molecules , preventing the flow of larger solute molecules .
Small molecules can be `` washed '' out  of a समाधान जिससे is उत्तेजित through the tubing into  a solvent , usually water , which surrounds it and in which they can be flushed away .
In demonstrations of semi-permeable membranes , a solution containing several types of  अणुओं , प्रायः ग्लूकोज और मंड , is लगाई into a semi-permeable डायलिसिस थैला  , such as a cellulose membrane with pores , and the bag is sealed with a knot or elastic band .
The sealed dialysis bag is placed in a container  of a अलग समाधान , or जल  .
Molecules small enough to pass  through the tubing ( जल , लवण , monosaccharides , और अन्य छोटी अणुओं ) tend to मूव into or आउट of the डायलिसिस  bag in the direction of decreasing concentration , therefore displaying diffusion .
Larger  अणुओं ( ऐसे as प्रोटीन , or polysaccharides ) कि have आयाम significantly वृहद than  the pore diameter are retained inside the dialysis bag .
The water and smaller solutes in a hypotonic solution ( a solution that has a lesser solute concentration than the solution it is referenced to ) will cross a semi-permeable membrane , like dialysis tubing , into  a hypertonic समाधान ( a समाधान कि रै a उच्चतर solute विशेषज्ञता than the समाधान it is संदर्भित to ) in an attempt to पहुँचें संतुलन , जहाँ  the solute concentration of each solution is in equilibrium .
Mercury  प्रयोगशाला थर्मामीटर
A thermometer ( from the Greek , thermos , meaning `` hot '' and μἐτρον , metron , `` measure '' ) is a  यंत्र कि उपायों तापमान or तापमान अनुपात using a किस्में of अलग  principles .
A thermometer has two important elements : the temperature sensor ( e.g . the bulb on a  mercury-in-glass थर्मामीटर ) in जिससे कुछ शारीरिक बदलें occurs साथ तापमान , प्लस कुछ अर्थात् of converting इस शारीरिक बदलें into  a numerical value ( e.g . the visible scale that is marked on a mercury-in-glass thermometer ) .
There are many types and many uses for  thermometers , as विस्तृत नीचे in भाग  of this article .
Snow  श्वेत और the सात dwarfs is a 1937 अमरीकी एनिमेटेड musical काल्पनिक  film produced by Walt Disney and released by RKO Radio Pictures .
Based on the German fairy tale by the Brothers Grimm , it is the  पहला full-length cel एनिमेटेड विशेषता फिल्मी और the earliest in the वॉल्ट डिज़्नी एनिमेटेड  Classics series .
The story was adapted by storyboard artists  डोरोथी ऐन रिक्त , रिचर्ड creedon , मेरिल de मारिस , ओटो englander , अर्ल hurd , लंड rickard  , Ted Sears and Webb Smith .
David Hand was the supervising director , while William Cottrell , Wilfred Jackson , Larry  morey , perce pearce , और बेन sharpsteen निर्देशित the फिल्मी 's व्यक्तिगत sequences  .
Snow White premiered at the Carthay  वृत्त थिएटर on दिसम्बर 21 , 1937 , followed by a देशभर रिलीज on फ़रवरी 4 , 1938 , और  with international earnings of $ 8 million during its initial release briefly assumed the record of highest grossing sound film at the time .
The  लोकप्रियता of the फिल्मी रै led to it होने re-released theatrically अनेक टाइम्स , जबतक  its home video release in the 1990s .
Adjusted for  महंगाई , it is एक of the शीर्ष टेन performers at  the North American box office .
At the 11th Academy  पुरस्कार , वॉल्ट डिज़्नी थी awarded an मानद ऑस्कर , और the फिल्मी थी मनोनीत लिये  Best Musical Score .
It was added to the United States National Film Registry in 1989 and  is क्रमित in the अमरीकी फिल्मी संस्थान 's सूची of the 100 महानतम  American films , who also named the film as the greatest American animated film of all time in 2008 .
Disney 's take on the fairy tale has had  a बिग सांस्कृतिक प्रभाव , resulting in a लोकप्रिय थीम पार्क आकर्षण , a वीडियो  game , and a Broadway musical .
Childbirth ,  श्रमिक , डिलीवरी , जनम , partus , or parturition is the culmination  of a pregnancy period with the expulsion of one or more newborn infants from a woman 's uterus .
The process of normal childbirth is  categorized in तीन चरण of श्रमिक : the shortening और dilation of the ग्रीवा , descent और जनम  of the infant , and birth of the placenta .
In many cases and with increasing frequency , childbirth is achieved through induction of labor  or caesarean खण्ड , जिससे is the हटाना of the neonate through a सर्जिकल incision in the उदर  , rather than through vaginal birth .
प्रसव by c-sections increased 50 % in  the U.S. from 1996 to 2006 , and comprise nearly 32 % of births in the U.S. and Canada .
With respect to induced labor  , अधिक than 22 % of महिलाओं undergo प्रेरण of श्रमिक in the  United States .
Medical professional policy makers find that induced births and elective cesarean can  be नुकसानदेह to the भ्रूण और neonate as खूब as नुकसानदेह or बगैर लाभ to the माँ , और have स्थापित सख्त दिशानिर्देश लिये non-medically indicated induced births  and elective cesarean before 39 weeks .
Viva La Bam was an MTV & Viva show which followed  bam margera और उसके क्रू as वे undertook चुनौतियां , performed  stunts and traveled the world .
The show ran for 5  सीज़न between 2003  and 2005 .
Flushed Away is a 2006  british/american कंप्यूटर एनिमेटेड कार्रवाई / एडवेंचर कॉमेडी  film directed by David Bowers and Sam Fell .
It was made in the partnership between Aardman Animations and DreamWorks Animation ,  और is aardman 's पहला completely computer-animated विशेषता as opposed to the  usual stop-motion .
The film stars the voice  talents of ह्यूज जैकमैन , केट विंसलेट , एंडी serkis , विधेयक nighy , इयान  McKellen , Shane Richie and Jean Reno .
The story was by Sam Fell , Peter Lord , Dick Clement , and Ian La Frenais , and the screenplay was written by Dick Clement , Ian La Frenais ,  क्रिस्टोफर लॉयड , जो keenan , और विलियम davies  .
The film was released in US on 3 November 2006 , and in UK on December 1 2006 , and was distributed by  सर्वोपरि तस्वीरें , मगर लिये स्विट्ज़रलैंड , स्पेन , और the नीदरलैंड्स , जिससे यहूद संभाला by  Universal Pictures .
The  अटलांटा braves हैं a पेशेवर बेसबॉल  team based in Atlanta .
the braves हैं a सदस्य of the पूर्वी  Division of Major League Baseball 's National League .
The  braves have निभाई in टर्नर फ़ील्ड  since 1997 .
The `` Braves '' name , which was first  प्रयुक्त in 1912 , originates इससे a पद  for a Native American warrior .
They  हैं nicknamed `` the bravos '' , और प्रायः referred to as `` अमेरिका  's Team `` in reference to the team 's games being broadcast on the nationally available TBS from the 1970s until 2007 , gaining a wide fanbase .
From 1991 to 2005 the Braves were one of the most successful franchises in baseball , winning division titles an unprecedented 14 consecutive times in that  काल ( omitting the strike-shortened 1994 ऋतु in जिससे वहीँ यहूद no आधिकारिक प्रभाग  champions ) .
The Braves won the NL West 1991–93 and the  nl ईस्ट 1995–2005 , और लौटे to the playoffs  as the National League Wild Card in 2010 .
The Braves advanced  to the संसार श्रेणी पाँच टाइम्स in the 1990s  , winning the title in 1995 .
Since their debut in the National League in 1876 , the franchise has won 16 divisional titles , 17 National League pennants , as well as three World Series championships—in 1914 as the Boston Braves , in 1957 as the Milwaukee   Braves , and in 1995 in Atlanta .
The Braves are the only MLB franchise to have won the World  श्रेणी in तीन अलग घर शहरों .
The club is one of the National League 's two remaining  चार्टर franchises ( the अन्य होने the शिकागो शावक ) और थी संस्थापित in बोस्टन  , Massachusetts , in 1871 as the Boston Red Stockings ( not to be confused with the American League 's Boston Red Sox ) .
They  हैं माना `` the oldest लगातार  playing team in major North American sports . ''
There is an argument as to who is actually older because although the Cubs are a full season ``  पुरानी '' ( formed as the शिकागो श्वेत stockings in 1870 ) शिकागो खोया दो सीज़न to the ग्रेट शिकागो आग  , thus the Braves have played more consecutive seasons .
After various  नाम परिवर्तन ( ऐसे as the बोस्टन beaneaters ) , the टोली संचालित  as the Boston Braves for most of the first half of the 20th century .
In 1953 , the team moved to Milwaukee , Wisconsin and became the  मिल्वौकी braves , followed by the मूव to अटलांटा  in 1966 .
The team 's tenure in Atlanta is famous for Hank Aaron breaking Babe Ruth 's career  घर चलाएं रिकार्ड in 1974 , हालांकि the बहुमत of आरोन 's घर रनों यहूद hit जबकि the टोली थी  in Milwaukee .
His record stood  जबतक 2007 , जब सैन फ्रांसिस्को बाएँ क्षेत्ररक्षक  Barry Bonds broke the record .
The leaves of a  beech पेड़
3D rendering of a μCT scan of a leaf piece , resolution  circa 40 μm/ voxel  .
A leaf is an organ of a vascular plant , as defined in  वनस्पति शर्तें , और in particular in संयंत्र morphology  .
Foliage is a mass noun that  refers to पत्ते as a विशेषता  of plants .
Typically a leaf is a thin , flattened organ borne above ground and specialized for photosynthesis , but many types of leaves are adapted  in तरीके लगभग unrecognisable in those शर्तें : कुछ हैं नहीं चपटा ( लिये उदाहरण अनेक रसीले पत्ते और conifers ) , कुछ हैं नहीं ऊपर मैदान ( ऐसे as बल्ब तराजू ) , और  some are without major photosynthetic function ( consider for example cataphylls , spines , and cotyledons ) .
Conversely , many structures of non-vascular  पौधे , or भी of कुछ lichens , जिससे हैं नहीं पौधे at सब ( in the भाव of होने  members of the kingdom Plantae ) , do look and function much like leaves .
Furthermore , several structures found in vascular plants look like leaves but are not  दरअसल पत्ते ; वे differ इससे पत्ते in उनके structures  and origins .
Examples include  phyllodes , cladodes , और  phylloclades .
Title card for  the 1937 हमारी गिरोह कॉमेडी rushin '  Ballet .
Our Gang ( also  ज्ञात as the छोटी दुष्टों or एचएएल रोच 's दुष्टों ) हैं a श्रेणी  of American comedy short films about a group of poor neighborhood children and their adventures .
Created by comedy producer Hal Roach , the series is noted for showing children behaving in a  अपेक्षाकृत प्राकृतिक रास्ता , as रोच और असली निदेशक रॉबर्ट F. mcgowan worked to फिल्मी the unaffected , कच्चा nuances apparent in नियमित children बल्कि than have उन्हें imitate  adult acting styles .
In addition , Our Gang notably put boys , girls , whites and blacks  साथ in a समूह as बराबरी , कुछ कि `` broke नई मैदान , '' according  to film historian Leonard Maltin .
Such a thing had never been done before in  सिनेमा लकिन रै चूंकि महरूम दोहराया बाद the कामयाबी of हमारी  Gang .
The first production at the  रोच स्टुडियो in 1922 थी a श्रेणी  of silent short subjects .
When Roach  बदला वितरकों इससे pathé to metro-goldwyn-mayer ( mgm ) in 1927 , और परिवर्तित the श्रेणी  to sound in 1929 , the series took off even further .
उत्पादन जारी at the रोच स्टुडियो जबतक 1938 , जब the  series was sold to MGM , who then continued producing the comedies until 1944 .
The Our Gang series includes  a कुल of 220 शॉर्ट्स और एक विशेषता फिल्मी , सामान्य  Spanky , featuring over forty-one child actors .
As MGM retained the rights to the Our Gang trademark  following उनके खरीदें of the उत्पादन अधिकारों , the 80 roach-produced `` टॉकीज़ '' यहूद syndicated  for television under the title The Little Rascals beginning in 1955 .
Both Roach 's  the छोटी दुष्टों पैकेज ( अभी स्वामित्व by सीबीएस टेलीविज़न वितरण ) और mgm 's हमारी गिरोह पैकेज ( अभी स्वामित्व by warner भाईs. entertainment  ) have since remained in syndication , with periodic new productions based on the shorts surfacing over the years , including a 1994 Little Rascals feature film released by Universal Pictures .
Zacharias Janssen ( also  zacharias जानसन or sacharias जानसन ) ( b.1580-88 , d.pre-1632 to 1638 ) थी a डच spectacle-maker इससे middelburg संबद्ध  with the invention of the first optical telescope .
janssen is sometimes भी credited लिये inventing  the first truly compound microscope .
However , the origin of the microscope , just like the origin of  the दूरदर्शी , is a पदार्थ of बहस  .
Lake Tahoe ( ; Washo :  dáʔaw ) is a विशाल freshwater झील in  the Sierra Nevada of the United States .
At a surface elevation of , it is located along the border between California  और नेवाडा , वेस्ट of कार्सन  City .
Lake Tahoe is  the largest अल्पाइन झील in  North America .
Its depth is , making it the United State 's  second-deepest ( the deepest is crater झील in ऑरेगॉन , होने deeper  , at ) .
additionally , झील tahoe is सूचीबद्ध as the 26th  largest lake by volume in the world at .
The lake was formed about 2 million years ago and is a part of  the झील tahoe जलाशय साथ the आधुनिक झील होने तराशा  during the ice ages .
It is known for the clarity of its  जल और the परिदृश्य of surrounding kyu  on all sides .
the क्षेत्रफल surrounding the झील is भी  referred to as Lake Tahoe , or simply Tahoe .
Lake  tahoe is a प्रमुख पर्यटक आकर्षण  in both Nevada and California .
It  is घर to a क्रमांक of स्की रिसॉर्ट  , summer outdoor recreation , and tourist attractions .
Snow and skiing are a significant part  of the क्षेत्रफल 's  economy and reputation .
Mountain and  झील नजारा हैं आकर्षण  throughout the year .
the नेवाडा पक्ष  also includes large casinos .
Highways provide year-round access  इससे रेनो , कार्सन नगर , और sacramento  .
पेज 1 of the twenty-seventh amendment 's  certification in the National Archives
Page 2 of  the amendment  's certification
Page 3 of the  amendment 's प्रमाणन
The Twenty-seventh Amendment ( Amendment  xxvii ) prohibits कोई विधि कि increases or decreases the सैलरी of सदस्यों  of the Congress from taking effect until the start of the next set of terms of office for Representatives .
It is the most recent  amendment to the संयुक्त  States Constitution .
It was  सुपुर्द to the राज्य लिये अनुसमर्थन  in 1789 and was adopted in 1992 .
“First they came ... ” is a famous statement and provocative poem attributed to pastor Martin Niemöller ( 1892–1984 ) about  the सुस्ती of जर्मनी intellectuals following the nazis ' वृद्धि to शक्ति और the subsequent purging of उनके चुनी  targets , group after group .
There is some disagreement over the exact wording of the quotation and when it was  निर्मित ; the सामग्री of the quotation may have महरूम प्रस्तुत  differently by Niemöller on different occasions .
This list of islands by area includes all islands in the  संसार वृहद than 2,500 km2 ( ) और अनेक अन्य आइलैंड्स over 500 km2  ( ) , sorted in descending order by area .
For  तुलना , महाद्वीपों  are also shown .
चार तिहाई  logo
The Four Thirds system is a  मानक निर्मित by ओलम्पस और कोडक लिये डिजिटल single-lens reflex  camera ( DSLR ) design and development. < ref name='DPReview.com 2001-02-13 ' >
The system provides a standard that ,  साथ डिजिटल कैमरे और lenses उपलब्धियाँ इससे अनेक निर्माताओं ,  allows for the interchange of lenses and bodies from different manufacturers .
seems to कवर the  standard .
Proponents describe it as an open standard , but  कंपनियाँ may तभी उपयोग it अंतर्गत a non-disclosure अनुबंध  .
Unlike  पुरानी slr प्रणालियों , चार तिहाई रै महरूम designed इससे  the ground up to be entirely digital .
Many lenses are extensively  computerized , to the पाइंट कि ओलम्पस offers फर्मवेयर अद्यतन  for many of them .
Lens design has been tailored to the  आवश्यकताएँ of डिजिटल सेंसर , सबसे  notably through telecentric designs .
The size of the sensor is  significantly छोटी than लिये सबसे dslrs और इस  implies that lenses , especially telephoto lenses , can be smaller .
For example , a Four Thirds  लेंस साथ a 300 mm फोकल लंबाई होता कवर परिचय the वही कोण  of view as a 600 mm focal length lens for the 35 mm film standard , and is correspondingly more compact .
Thus , the Four Thirds System has crop factor ( focal length multiplier ) of about 2 , and while this enables  longer फोकल लंबाई लिये वृहद आवर्धन , it करता n't सहायता the manufacture  of wide angle lenses .
The image sensor format , generally intermediate between  those of larger slrs और छोटी कॉम्पैक्ट कैमरे , generally देता स्तर  of cost , performance and convenience intermediate between those two classes .
HVAC systems use ventilation air ducts installed  throughout a भवन to सप्लाई conditioned एयर to  a room through outlet vents , called diffusers ; and ducts to remove air through return-air grilles .
HVAC ( heating ,  वेंटिलेशन , और एयर कंडीशनिंग ) is the प्रौद्योगिकी of अंदर  and automotive environmental comfort .
hvac प्रणाली डिज़ाइन is a subdiscipline of mechanical अभियान्त्रिकी  , based on the principles of thermodynamics , fluid mechanics , and heat transfer .
Refrigeration is sometimes added to the  फ़ील्ड 's संक्षिप्त  as HVAC & R or HVACR , or ventilating is dropped as in HACR ( such as the designation of HACR-rated circuit breakers ) .
HVAC is important in the design of medium to large industrial and office buildings such as skyscrapers and in marine  environments ऐसे as एक्वैरियम , जहाँ सुरक्षित और स्वस्थ भवन शर्तें हैं regulated साथ आदर to  temperature and humidity , using fresh air from outdoors .
Ventilation on the downdraught system , by  impulsion , or the 'plenum ' principle , लागू to schoolrooms  ( 1899 )
Heating , ventilating , and air conditioning  is आधारित on आविष्कारों और discoveries बना by निकोलय lvov , माइकल फैराडे ,  Willis Carrier , Reuben Trane , James Joule , William Rankine , Sadi Carnot , and many others .
The invention of the components of HVAC systems went hand-in-hand with the industrial revolution , and new methods of modernization , higher  दक्षता , और प्रणाली कंट्रोल हैं constantly introduced by कंपनियाँ और आविष्कारक विश्वव्यापी  .
The three central functions of heating , ventilating , and  air-conditioning हैं interrelated , विशेषकर साथ the need to provide  thermal comfort and acceptable indoor air quality within reasonable installation , operation , and maintenance costs .
HVAC systems can  provide वेंटिलेशन , reduce एयर घुसपैठ , और maintain दबाव  relationships between spaces .
The means  of एयर डिलीवरी और हटाना इससे स्पेसेस  is known as room air distribution .
The starting point in carrying  आउट an अनुमान दोनो लिये कूलिंग और हीटिंग depends on the exterior  climate and interior specified conditions .
However before  लेने up the ऊष्मा लोड गणना , it is जरुरी to ढूँढें भैस  air requirements for each area in detail , as pressurization is an important consideration .
In modern buildings the design , installation , and control systems of  ये कृत्यों हैं एकीकृत into एक or अधिक hvac प्रणालियों  .
For very  छोटी इमारतें , ठेकेदारों सामान्यतः क्षमता इंजीनियर और चुनें  HVAC systems and equipment .
For larger buildings , building services designers and engineers , such as mechanical , architectural , or building services  इंजीनियर्स analyze , डिज़ाइन , और बताएँ the hvac प्रणालियों , और specialty mechanical ठेकेदारों fabricate और  commission them .
Building permits and  code-compliance inspections of the संस्थापना हैं सामान्यतः जरूरी  for all sizes of buildings .
The HVAC industry is a worldwide  एंटरप्राइज़ , साथ भूमिकाएँ सहित आपरेशन और मेंटेनेंस , प्रणाली डिज़ाइन और  construction , equipment manufacturing and sales , and in education and research .
The HVAC industry was historically regulated by the manufacturers of HVAC equipment , but regulating and standards organizations such as HARDI , ASHRAE , SMACNA , ACCA ,  वर्दी mechanical कोड , अंतरराष्ट्रीय mechanical कोड , और amca have महरूम स्थापित to support the उद्योग और प्रोत्साहित ऊँची मानकों और उपलब्धि  .
Royal Navy Commander  जेम्स बंध , cmg , rnvr , is a fictional अक्षर निर्मित  by British journalist and novelist Ian Fleming in 1953 .
He is the  समर्थक of the जेम्स बंध श्रेणी of novels  , films , comics and video games .
Fleming wrote twelve Bond novels and two short story  संग्रहण पहले उसके मौत , हालांकि the पिछला दो books— the man साथ the सुनहरी गन और octopussy और the जीना  Daylights —were published posthumously .
The Bond character is a Secret Service agent ,  कोड क्रमांक 007 , residing in लंदन लकिन क्रियाशील  internationally .
Bond was a composite character who was based on a number of commandos whom Fleming knew  दौरान उसके सेवा in the नवल प्रज्ञा प्रभाग दौरान संसार युद्ध ii , to जिसको फ्लेमिंग added उसके अपना स्टाइल और a क्रमांक of उसके अपना tastes  ; Bond 's name was appropriated from American ornithologist James Bond .
Bond has a number of character traits which run throughout the books , including an  enjoyment of गाड़ियाँ , a प्रेम of खाना और पेय , और an औसत सेवन of  sixty custom-made cigarettes a day .
Since Fleming 's death in 1964 , there have been other authorised writers  of बंध सामग्री , सहित जॉन गार्डनर , जो लिखा चौदह  novels and two novelizations and Raymond Benson , who wrote six novels , three novelizations and three short stories .
There have also been  तीन लेखक जो लिखा एक किताब प्रत्येक , किंग्सले एमिस ( लिखने  as Robert Markham ) , Sebastian Faulks and Jeffery Deaver .
Additionally  a श्रेणी of novels आधारित on बंध  's youth— Young Bond —was written by Charlie Higson .
As spin-offs from the literary works , there was a television adaptation of the  पहला अनोखा , कसीनो royale , in जिससे बंध थी निभाई as an अमरीकी  agent .
A comic strip series also ran  in the रोज़ एक्स्प्रेस समाचारपत्र  .
There have also  महरूम twenty-five बंध films ; सात अभिनेताओं  have played Bond in these films .
`` Nature Boy '' is a song by Eden  ahbez , प्रकाशित in 1947  .
The song tells a  काल्पनिक of a `` अजीब एनचांटेड लड़के ... जो wandered बहुत दूर '' तभी to सीख कि `` the महानतम  thing ... was just to love and be loved in return '' .
Nat King Cole 's 1948 recording of the  सोंग थी a प्रमुख hit और `` प्रकृति लड़के '' रै चूंकि become a पॉप  and jazz standard , with dozens of major artists interpreting the song .
Louisiana ( or ; , ;  louisiana क्रियोल : léta de la lwizyàn ) is a राज्य स्तिथ in the दक्षिणी प्रदेश  of the United States of America .
Louisiana is the 31st most extensive and the 25th  सबसे populous of the 50 संयुक्त राज्य  .
Its capital is Baton  रूज और largest नगर is नई  Orleans .
Louisiana is the only state in the U.S. with  राजनैतिक subdivisions termed parishes , जिससे हैं लोकल सरकारी 's समतुल्य to काउंटी  .
The largest parish by population is East  baton रूज मोहल्ला , और the largest by  land area is Cameron Parish .
Much of the state 's lands were formed from  sediment धोया bas the मिसिसिपी नदी , leaving विशाल deltas और विशाल क्षेत्रों of तटीय  marsh and swamp .
These contain a rich  दक्षिणी biota ; ठेठ उदाहरण शामिल पक्षियों ऐसे as  ibis and egrets .
There are also many  प्रजाति of पेड़ मेंढक , और मछली ऐसे as sturgeon  and paddlefish .
In more elevated areas , fire is a natural process in  the लैंडस्केप , और रै उत्पादित extensive क्षेत्रों of longleaf पाइन  forest and wet savannas .
These support an exceptionally large number  of संयंत्र प्रजाति , सहित अनेक प्रजाति of orchids और मांसाहारी  plants .
Some Louisiana urban environments have a multicultural , multilingual heritage , being so strongly  बहकावे by an जिसमें of 18th-century फ्रेंच , स्पेनी , देशी अमरीकी ( भारतीय ) और अफ़्रीकी संस्कृतियों  that they are considered to be somewhat exceptional in the U.S .
Before the American purchase of  the territory , the वर्तमान louisiana राज्य था महरूम दोनो  a Spanish and French colony .
In addition , the pattern of development included importing numerous African slaves in  the 18th सदी , साथ अनेक इससे the वही प्रदेश of वेस्ट अफ़्रीकी , यूँ concentrating  their culture .
In the  post-civil युद्ध पर्यावरण , anglo-americans  increased the pressure for Anglicization , and in 1915 , English was made the only official language of the state .
Women 's rights are  the अधिकारों और entitlements claimed लिये महिलाओं और लड़कियों  of many societies worldwide .
In some places these rights are institutionalized or supported by law ,  लोकल कस्टम , और आचरण , whereas in अन्य वे may be उपेक्षित  or suppressed .
They differ from broader notions of human  अधिकारों through दावा of an अंतर्निहित ऐतिहासिक और परंपरागत पूर्वाग्रह  against the exercise of rights by women and girls in favour of men and boys .
Issues commonly associated with notions of women 's rights include , though are not limited to ,  the सही : to bodily अखंडता और स्वायत्तता ; to vote ( suffrage ) ; to थाम पब्लिक दफ्तर ; to कार्य ; to मेला मजदूरी or बराबर अदा ; to अपना प्रॉपर्टी ; to शिक्षा ; to serve in the सैन्य or be conscripted ; to डालें  into legal contracts ; and to have marital , parental and religious rights .
The laws of science or scientific laws are  कथन कि describe , भविष्यवाणी , और शायद बताइये क्यों , a दायरा  of phenomena behave as they appear to in nature .
The term `` law '' has diverse usage in many cases : approximate , accurate , broad or narrow  theories , in सब प्राकृतिक वैज्ञानिक disciplines ( भौतिकी , रसायन , जीवविज्ञान  , geology , astronomy etc . ) .
an analogous पद लिये  a scientific law is a principle .
वैज्ञानिक विधिs:
summarize a large  संग्रहण of तथ्य संकल्पित by प्रयोग into  a single statement,
can usually be formulated mathematically as one  or अनेक कथन or समीकरण , or at तनिक stated in a सिंगल वाक्य , so कि  it can be used to predict the outcome of an experiment , given the initial , boundary , and other physical conditions of the processes which take place,
are strongly supported by  अनुभवजन्य प्रमाण - वे हैं वैज्ञानिक ज्ञान कि प्रयोग have repeatedly सत्यापित  ( and never falsified ) .
Their accuracy does not change when new theories are worked out ,  लकिन बल्कि the पैमाना of अनुप्रयोग , चूंकि the समीकरण ( if कोई ) representing  the law does not change .
As with other scientific knowledge ,  वे do नहीं have निरपेक्ष certainty जैसे गणितीय theorems or पहचान  , and it is always possible for a law to be overturned by future observations .
are  प्रायः कोटेड as a आधारभूत controlling influence बल्कि than  a description of observed facts .
I.e . `` the  कानून of गति आवश्यकता कि  ''
Laws differ from  hypotheses और postulates , जिससे हैं प्रस्तावित दौरान the वैज्ञानिक  process before and during validation by experiment and observation .
These are  नहीं कानून चूंकि वे have नहीं महरूम सत्यापित to the वही उपाधि और may नहीं be fear  general , although they may lead to the formulation of laws .
A law is a more solidified  और औपचारिक बयान , आसुत  from repeated experiment .
Although the concepts of a law or principle in nature is borderline to philosophy , and presents the depth to which mathematics can describe nature  , वैज्ञानिक कानून हैं माना इससे a वैज्ञानिक परिप्रेक्ष्य और follow the वैज्ञानिक विधि ; वे `` serve उनके purpose '' बल्कि than `` questioning  reality '' ( philosophical ) or `` statements of logical absolution '' ( mathematical ) .
For example , whether a law `` refers to  वास्तविकता '' is a philosophical समस्या  , rather than scientific .
Fundamentally , all scientific laws follow  इससे भौतिकी , कानून जिससे occur in अन्य sciences ultimately follow  from physical laws .
Often , from mathematically fundamental  viewpoints , सार्वभौमिक स्थिरांक emerge इससे वैज्ञानिक  laws .
The launch of the PlayStation 3 into the Japanese market on  10 नवम्बर 2006 चिह्नित the दूसरी प्रमुख सातवाँ  generation entertainment system to be released .
The system was released seven days later on 17  नवम्बर in the संयुक्त राज्य  .
Introduction into other world markets was delayed by a shortage of diodes for use in the  blu-ray डिस्क खिलाड़ी ; the यंत्र थी शुभारम्भ in यूरोपीय और अन्य संसार बाज़ार in the पहला हाफ of  2007 .
Lauren Fenmore Baldwin ( formerly Williams and Grainger ) is a  fictional अक्षर इससे the सीबीएस साबुन operas the यंग और the बेचैन और the बिंदास और the खूबसूरत  , portrayed by Tracey E. Bregman .
She made  उसके डेब्यू दौरान the एपीसोड  airing on January 21 , 1983 .
In 1992 , Bregman began  बनाना विरल दिखावे on the बिंदास और the खूबसूरत , बाद resulting  in the character migrating there fully in 1995 .
Following a guest appearance in 2000  , bregman लौटे to the यंग और the बेचैन  on August 24 , 2001 , remaining on recurring status .
In 2013 , it  थी घोषित कि bregman था  been placed on contract .
Much of Lauren 's  इतिहास रै revolved around उसके romances साथ पॉल विलियम्स , स्कॉट  Grainger , Sr. , and Michael Baldwin among many others causing a fierce rivalry with Traci Abbott Connolly .
लॉरेन is भी प्रसिद्ध  for her long , violent rivalry with Sheila Carter .
The 2010 NBA Finals was the National Basketball  संघ ( एनबीए ) चैंपियनशिप श्रेणी लिये the 2009–10  season .
The best-of-seven playoff was  लडे between the लॉस एंजिल्स लेकर्स , champions of the पश्चिमी सम्मेलन और defending एनबीए champions , और  the Boston Celtics , champions of the Eastern Conference .
The Lakers defeated  the सेल्टिक्स , चार खेल to तीन , to जीत the मताधिकार 's  16th NBA championship .
The 64th edition of the  चैंपियनशिप श्रेणी थी निभाई between जून 3 और जून 17 , थी ब्रॉडकास्ट  on ABC , and was watched by an average of 18.1 million people .
the सेल्टिक्स अर्जित उनके berth  into the playoffs by winning the Atlantic Division .
The  लेकर्स जीती the प्रशांत प्रभाग  to earn their berth .
The Celtics reached the NBA Finals  by defeating the मियामी ऊष्मा in the best-of-seven पूर्वी सम्मेलन पहला गोलाकार , the क्लीवलैंड cavaliers in the best-of-seven पूर्वी सम्मेलन  Semifinals , and defending Eastern conference champion Orlando Magic in the best-of-seven Eastern Conference Finals .
The Lakers reached the NBA Finals by defeating the Oklahoma City Thunder  in the best-of-seven पश्चिमी सम्मेलन पहला गोलाकार , the यूटा जैज़ in the best-of-seven पश्चिमी सम्मेलन  Semifinals , and the Phoenix Suns in the best-of-seven Western Conference Finals .
The NBA Finals were scheduled in the Major League Baseball World  श्रेणी 2–3–2 सात खेल स्वरूप , साथ the लेकर्स possessing home-court लाभ as a बदला लिये finishing साथ बेहतर  regular season record than the Celtics .
Repeated baskets from starters Kobe Bryant , Pau Gasol , and Ron  artest brought the लेकर्स बंद to विजय in खेल  1 .
A record breaking performance from Ray Allen  's आठ three-point baskets ensured the सेल्टिक्स  a Game 2 triumph .
Derek Fisher ’s  11 अंक in the चौथी क्वार्टर helped the  Lakers win Game 3 .
The Celtics won Game 4 ; it did n't hurt that they netted an excellent performance in baskets  by the team’s reserves , जबकि पॉल पियर्स led the टोली to a खेल 5 जीत साथ 27 अंक on 57 %  shooting from the floor .
The Lakers avoided  विलोपन by जीतना a निर्णायक खेल  6 with 24 points contributed by their bench .
Although they trailed the Celtics by 13 points early in the third quarter , the Lakers rallied and won their second  लगातार चैंपियनशिप by लेने over an रोमांचक खेल 7 aided by लेट योगदान  on offense by Pau Gasol and Artest and rebounding .
Bryant was named  सबसे मूल्यवान खिलाड़ी of the फाइनल लिये उसके  second consecutive trophy .
This was the first NBA Finals  to go the पूरा सात खेल चूंकि और तभी the चौथी चूंकि  the NBA Finals returned to a 2–3–2 format in .
The Laker franchise has 16 NBA  championships ( पाँच in मिनियापोलिस , 11 in लॉस एंजिल्स ) trailing the  Celtics ' seventeen championships .
The NBA Finals used the `` World Series '' Format in 1949 Minneapolis Lakers defeated the Washington Capitols 4 games to 2 ; in 1953 Minneapolis  पराजित the नई यॉर्क knicks 4 खेल to 1 ; in 1954 मिनियापोलिस पराजित the syracuse नागरिकों 4 खेल to 3 ; और in 1955  Syracuse Nationals defeated the Fort Wayne Pistons 4 games to 3 .
The NBA  होता वापसी to the 2–2–1–1–1 नेशनल  Hockey League seven game series format until 1985 .
Black pepper ( Piper nigrum ) is a flowering vine in the family Piperaceae ,  cultivated लिये इसके फल , जिससे is प्रायः सूखी और प्रयुक्त as a मसाला और seasoning  .
The fruit , known as a peppercorn when dried , is  लगभग in व्यास , अंधेरा रेड जब fully वयस्क , और , जैसे सब drupes , contains a सिंगल बीज  .
Peppercorns  , और the मैदान pepper निकला इससे उन्हें , may be वर्णित बस as pepper , or अधिक precisely as ब्लैक pepper ( पकाया और  dried unripe fruit ) , green pepper ( dried unripe fruit ) and white pepper ( dried ripe seeds ) .
Black pepper is native to south India ,  और is extensively cultivated वहीँ और elsewhere in तीव्र  regions .
फिलहाल वियतनाम is the संसार 's largest निर्माता और निर्यातक  of pepper , producing 34 % of the world 's Piper nigrum crop as of 2008 .
Dried ground pepper has been  प्रयुक्त चूंकि प्राचीनता लिये दोनो इसके फ्लेवर और as a आयुर्विज्ञान  .
Black pepper is the  संसार 's सबसे traded मसाला  .
It is one of the most  आम मसाले added to यूरोपीय भोजन  and its descendants .
The spiciness of black pepper is due to the chemical piperine  , नहीं to be उलझन साथ the capsaicin कि देता मांसल मिर्च  theirs .
It is  in the आधुनिक संसार  , often paired with salt .
in cardiovascular physiology , ejection भिन्न  ( EF ) represents the volumetric fraction of blood pumped out of the ventricle ( heart ) with each heart beat or cardiac cycle .
It can be applied to either the right ventricle which ejects via the pulmonary valve into  the pulmonary परिसंचरण or the बाएँ ventricle जिससे ejects via the aortic वाल्व into the प्रणालीगत  circulation .
इमेजिंग of the physiology of the mammalian दिल is the आर्ट कि  allows meaningful mathematical expression defining EF .
Noninvasive cardiac imaging has become a worldwide utility enabling  पढ़ाई of हृदय प्रदर्शन reproducibly और inexpensively  .
Simplified ,  ejection भिन्न is a गणितीय उत्पाद  allowed by cardiac imaging .
As a mathematical term  , ejection भिन्न is an एक्सटेंशन of the कार्य of  Adolph Fick in cardiac output .
Dedicated technology such as Echocardiography ,  computed टोमोग्राफी , चुम्बकीय अनुनाद इमेजिंग और muga स्कैनिंग have definitively अनुमत clinically  relevant mathematics regarding Ischemia , Congenital Heart Disease and Heart Failure .
The prosecutor is the chief legal representative of the  अभियोजन in देशों साथ either the आम  law adversarial system , or the civil law inquisitorial system .
The prosecution is the legal party responsible for presenting the case in a criminal trial  विरूद्ध an व्यक्तिगत अभियुक्त of तोड़कर  the law .
Strawberry shortcake most commonly means a dessert  in the shortcake परिवार  of cakes .
स्ट्रॉबेरी shortcake  may also refer to:
Strawberry Shortcake , a character  और मताधिकार निर्मित by अमरीकी  Greetings
The  shortened शीर्षक of स्ट्रॉबेरी  on the Shortcake , a Japanese romance movie .
Abū al-Qāsim Muḥammad ibn ʿAbd Allāh ibn ʿAbd al-Muṭṭalib ibn Hāshim ( ) ( circa| 570 – circa| 8 June 632 ) , also transliterated as  मुहम्मद ( ) , थी a धार्मिक , राजनैतिक , और सैन्य नेता इससे मक्का जो एकीकृत अरब  into a single religious polity under Islam .
He is believed  by मुसलमान और bahá'ís to be  a messenger and prophet of God .
Muhammad is almost universally  माना by मुसलमान as the पिछला नबी भेजा by परमेश्वर लिये  mankind .
non-muslims लिहाज़  Muhammad as the founder of Islam .
Muslims  consider उसे to be the restorer of an अनछुए असली monotheistic  faith of Adam , Noah , Abraham , Moses , Jesus , and other prophets .
Born in  परिचय 570 ce in the arabian नगर of मक्का , he थी अनाथ  at an early age and brought up under the care of his uncle Abu Talib .
He later worked mostly  as a व्यापारी , as खूब as a गड़रिये , और थी  first married by age 25 .
Being in the habit of  periodically retreating to a गुफा in the surrounding kyu लिये अनेक नाइट्स of seclusion और दुआ  , he later reported that it was there , at age 40 , that he received his first revelation from God .
Three years after this event Muhammad started  उपदेश ये खुलासे सरेआम , proclaiming कि `` परमेश्वर is एक `` , कि पूरा  `` surrender '' to Him ( lit .
islām ) is the only way ( dīn )  स्वीकार्य to परमेश्वर , और कि he खुद थी a नबी और मेसेंजर of परमेश्वर , in the  same vein as other Islamic prophets .
Muhammad gained few followers early on ,  और थी मिले साथ दुश्मनी इससे कुछ meccan जनजातियों ; he और उसके  followers were treated harshly .
To escape  persecution , मुहम्मद भेजा कुछ of उसके अनुसरणकर्ता to अबीसीनिया पहले he और  his followers in Mecca migrated to Medina ( then known as Yathrib ) in the year 622 .
This  इवेंट , the हिज्र , marks the शुरूआत of  the Islamic calendar , which is also known as the Hijri Calendar .
In Medina ,  मुहम्मद संयुक्त the जनजातियों  under the Constitution of Medina .
After eight years of fighting  साथ the meccan जनजातियों , उसके अनुसरणकर्ता , जो by तब था grown to 10,000 , took कंट्रोल  of Mecca in the largely peaceful Conquest of Mecca .
he नष्ट the pagan मूर्तियों in the नगर और तब भेजा उसके अनुसरणकर्ता  out to destroy all of the remaining pagan temples in Eastern Arabia .
In 632 , a few months after returning to Medina  इससे the विदाई यात्राएं , मुहम्मद गिरी बीमार और died  .
By the time of his death , most of the Arabian Peninsula had converted to Islam ,  और he था संयुक्त अरब into a सिंगल मुस्लिम धार्मिक  polity .
the खुलासे  ( or Ayah , lit .
`` Signs [ of  परमेश्वर ] '' ) — जिससे मुहम्मद reported receiving जबतक उसके मौत – रूप the आयतें of the कुरान , regarded  by Muslims as the `` Word of God '' and around which the religion is based .
Besides the Quran , Muhammad 's life ( sira ) and traditions ( sunnah ) are also  upheld by मुसलमान as the स्त्रोत of शरीयत  law .
They  discuss मुहम्मद और अन्य नबियों of  Islam with reverence , adding the phrase peace be upon him whenever their names are mentioned .
While conceptions of Muhammad in medieval Christendom and premodern times were largely  ऋणात्मक , appraisals in आधुनिक इतिहास have महरूम दूर कम  so .
The Great Books  ( दूसरी संस्करण  )
Great Books of the Western World is a series of books originally published in the United States in 1952 by  ब्रिटैनिका विश्वकोष inc. to उपस्थित the ग्रेट किताबे in a सिंगल पैकेज of 54 आयतन  .
The series is  अभी in इसके दूसरी संस्करण और contains 60  volumes .
The original editors of the series chose three  मापदण्ड लिये समावेश : a किताब जरूर be प्रासंगिक to समकालीन मुद्दे , और नहीं तभी महत्वपूर्ण in इसके ऐतिहासिक कॉन्टेक्स्ट ; it जरूर  reward rereading ; and it must be a part of `` the great conversation about the great ideas , '' relevant to at least 25 of the 102 great ideas identified by the editors .
Books were not chosen on the basis of ethnic or cultural inclusiveness  , ऐतिहासिक influence , or the सम्पादक ' अनुबंध साथ the  views expressed .
`` Cocaine ''  is a सोंग लिखा और अंकित by jj cale in  1976 , but also known as a cover version recorded by Eric Clapton .
Allmusic calls the latter `` among [ Clapton 's ] most enduringly popular hits '' and notes that `` even for  an कलाकार जैसे क्लैप्टन साथ a विशाल देह of high-quality कार्य , 'cocaine ' बाँधने among उसके बेहतरीन  . ''
Glyn Johns , who had previously worked with The Who , Led Zeppelin and The Rolling  पत्थरों , उत्पादित the क्लैप्टन रिकॉर्डिंग , जिससे थी released on क्लैप्टन 's 1977 एल्बम slowhand और as a सिंगल in 1980  .
The live version of `` Cocaine '' , from the Just One Night album recorded in Tokyo , charted on the Billboard Hot 100 as  the b-side of `` तुलसा समय `` , जिससे थी a no . 30 hit in 1980. ``
Cocaine '' was one of several of Cale 's songs recorded by  क्लैप्टन , सहित `` बाद मध्यरात्रि `` और `` travelin ' लाइट  '' .
The  आक्रमण on पर्ल हार्बर ( पुकारा हवाई आपरेशन or आपरेशन ai by the जापानी इम्पीरियल सामान्य मुख्यालय ( आपरेशन z in नियोजन ) और the बैटल of पर्ल हार्बर  ) was a surprise military strike conducted by the Imperial Japanese Navy against the United States naval base at Pearl Harbor , Hawaii , on the morning of December 7 , 1941 ( December 8 in Japan ) .
From the standpoint of the defenders ,  the आक्रमण commenced at 7:48 a.m. हवाई  Time .
The attack was intended as a preventive action in order to keep the  u.S. प्रशांत बेड़े इससे दखल साथ सैन्य क्रियाएँ the साम्राज्य of जापानी थी नियोजन in southeast एशिया विरूद्ध विदेशी territories  of the United Kingdom , the Netherlands , and the United States .
The base was attacked by 353 Japanese fighters ,  बमवर्षक और torpedo planes in दो लहरें , शुभारम्भ इससे  six aircraft carriers .
All  आठ u.S. नेवी battleships यहूद क्षतिग्रस्त  , with four being sunk .
Two of these were later raised , and  साथ the बाकी चार repaired , छह battleships लौटे  to service later in the war .
The  जापानी भी sank or क्षतिग्रस्त तीन cruisers  , three destroyers , an anti-aircraft training ship , and one minelayer .
188 u.S. वायुयान यहूद नष्ट ; 2,402  Americans were killed and 1,282 wounded .
Important base installations such as the power station ,  डॉकयार्ड , मेंटेनेंस , और ईंधन और torpedo भंडार सुविधाएं , as खूब as the पनडुब्बी पियर और मुख्यालय भवन  ( also home of the intelligence section ) were not attacked .
Japanese losses  यहूद लाइट : 29 वायुयान और पाँच midget submarines खोया , और  65 servicemen killed or wounded .
One Japanese  नाविक थी captured  .
The attack came as a profound  शॉक to the अमरीकी लोगों और led सीधे to the अमरीकी प्रविष्टि into संसार युद्ध ii in दोनो  the Pacific and European theaters .
the following दिन ( दिसम्बर  8 ) , the United States declared war on Japan .
Domestic support for non-interventionism , which had  महरूम दमदार , disappeared  .
Clandestine support  of ब्रिटेन ( लिये उदाहरण the neutrality पैट्रोल ) थी  replaced by active alliance .
subsequent परिचालन by the u.S. prompted जर्मनी और  Italy to declare war on the U.S. on December 11 , which was reciprocated by the U.S. the same day .
There were  numerous ऐतिहासिक precedents लिये unannounced  military action by Japan .
However , the lack of any formal warning , particularly while negotiations were still apparently  जारी , led अध्यक्ष फ्रैंकलिन D. रूज़वेल्ट to proclaim दिसम्बर 7 ,  1941 , `` a date which will live in infamy `` .
Project Runway Season 2 was the  दूसरी ऋतु of ब्रावो 's कामयाब प्रोजेक्ट रनवे , a वास्तविकता प्रतियोगिता लिये फ़ैशन  designers .
Season 2 began  airing on दिसम्बर  7 , 2005 .
following a देशभर ढूंढें पहले in the साल , सोलह designers यहूद चुनी  as semi-finalists and brought to New York City in June , 2005 .
After the first challenge , called `` Road To The Runway '' ,  चौदह गई on to compete as finalists  .
The winning designer , Chloe Dao , received $ 100,000 in seed money to help launch her own line , a 2007  शनि आसमान roadster , a स्प्रेड in elle पत्रिका , और a mentorship साथ the banana  Republic Design Team .
Winning alongside Dao was  उसके मॉडल , अनुग्रह kelsey , जो प्राप्त the  ELLE Magazine spread .
Michael Kors  और नीना गार्सिया लौटे as न्यायाधीशों लिये  the second season .
The  चौथी judging सीट घुमाया प्रत्येक  week , based on the challenge .
Tim Gunn , fashion chair at Parsons The New School for Design ,  लौटे as a mentor लिये the designers .
Kara  janx बाद appeared in प्रोजेक्ट  Runway : All Stars in 2012 , where she finished 7th out of 13 .
Andrae Gonzalo , in the same  साल , competed in the दूसरी ऋतु of the सब सितारों संस्करण  placing 10th out of 13 .
an उदाहरण of  a Heraclius mule
In  numismatics , a खच्चर is a सिक्का or पदक minted साथ  obverse and reverse designs not normally seen on the same piece .
These  can be जानबूझकर or  produced by error .
This type of error is highly sought after  , और उदाहरण can लाने steep कीमतें  from collectors .
The earliest mules are found  among प्राचीन यूनानी और रोमन  coins .
Opinion is divided between those who think that they are accidental , the result of an incorrect  संयोजन of a नई die साथ एक कि था officially महरूम withdrawn इससे उपयोग , or the कार्य of coiners working  with dies stolen from an official mint , perhaps at a time when one of them should have been destroyed .
The name derives from the mule , the hybrid offspring of a horse and a donkey , due to such  a सिक्का having दो पहलू intended लिये अलग सिक्के , much as a खच्चर रै अभिभावक of दो अलग प्रजाति  .
This page  दस्तावेज़ the tornadoes और बवंडर  outbreaks of 2010 .
The majority of  tornadoes रूप in the u.S. , लकिन वे can occur  almost anywhere under the right conditions .
A lesser number occur outside the U.S. , most notably  in भाग of neighboring दक्षिणी कनाडा दौरान the उत्तरी गोलार्ध  's summer season , but are also known in South America , Europe , Asia , and Australia .
There were 1,531 tornadoes reported in the United States in 2010 ( of which  at तनिक 1,266 यहूद पुष्टि ) , साथ 45 पुष्टि fatalities  .
Elsewhere in  the संसार , 11 लोगों यहूद मारे in tornadoes , छह in अर्जेंटीना ,  three in the Bahamas , one in Bangladesh , and one in Germany .
The year was near  औसत लिये tornadoes despite an अत्यधिक शांत जल्दी वसन्त काल , however ऐसे बदला बाद a विशाल upswing starting  in late April and a busy late spring and summer period .
The  पतझड़ महीने यहूद थोड़ा  above average .
A  lymphocyte is a प्रकार of श्वेत रक्त कोशिका in  the vertebrate immune system .
Under the  सूक्ष्मदर्शी , lymphocytes can be विभाजित into विशाल lymphocytes  and small lymphocytes .
Large granular lymphocytes  शामिल प्राकृतिक कातिल कोशिकाएं ( nk  cells ) .
Small  lymphocytes consist of t कोशिकाएं और  B cells .
Windows PowerShell is Microsoft 's  कार्य स्वचालन फ्रेमवर्क , consisting of a command-line शेल और संबद्ध एनक्रिप्शन भाषा निर्मित on .neT फ्रेमवर्क  .
PowerShell  provides पूरा अभिगम to com और wmi , enabling प्रशासकों to perform प्रशासनिक  tasks on both local and remote Windows systems .
In PowerShell , administrative tasks are generally performed by cmdlets ( pronounced command-lets ) , which are  specialized .neT वर्ग implementing a particular आपरेशन  .
सेट of cmdlets may be संयुक्त साथ in स्क्रिप्ट , executables ( जिससे हैं स्टैंडअलोन अनुप्रयोग  ) , or by instantiating regular .NET classes ( or WMI/COM Objects ) .
These work by accessing data in  अलग आंकड़ा स्टोर्स , जैसे the filesystem or रजिस्ट्री , जिससे हैं बना उपलब्धियाँ  to the PowerShell runtime via Windows PowerShell providers .
Windows PowerShell also provides a hosting  api साथ जिससे the खिड़कियाँ powershell  runtime can be embedded inside other applications .
These applications can then use  खिड़कियाँ powershell कार्यक्षमता to implement निश्चित परिचालन , सहित  those exposed via the graphical interface .
This capability has been used by Microsoft Exchange Server  2007 to expose इसके प्रबन्धन कार्यक्षमता as powershell cmdlets और प्रदाताओं और  implement the graphical management tools as PowerShell hosts which invoke the necessary cmdlets .
Other Microsoft applications including Microsoft SQL Server 2008 also  expose उनके प्रबन्धन इंटरफ़ेस  via PowerShell cmdlets .
With PowerShell , graphical interface-based management  अनुप्रयोग on खिड़कियाँ हैं परतदार on शीर्ष of खिड़कियाँ powershell  .
A PowerShell  एनक्रिप्शन इंटरफ़ेस लिये खिड़कियाँ उत्पाद is mandated  by the Common Engineering Criteria .
Windows PowerShell includes its own  extensive , console-based सहायता , समान to  man pages in Unix shells , via the Get-Help cmdlet .
Mary Poppins is a 1964 musical film starring Julie Andrews , Dick Van Dyke , David Tomlinson ,  और glynis जॉन्स , उत्पादित by वॉल्ट डिज़्नी , और आधारित on  the Mary Poppins books series by P. L. Travers .
The film was directed by Robert Stevenson and  लिखा by विधेयक वाल्श और डॉन dagradi  , with songs by the Sherman Brothers .
It was shot  at वॉल्ट डिज़्नी studios in burbank  , California .
Julie Andrews won the Academy Award for Best Actress for her  प्रदर्शन as मरियम poppins और the फिल्मी भी जीती ऑस्कर लिये बेहतरीन  Film Editing , Original Music Score , Best Song for `` Chim Chim Cher-ee '' and Best Visual Effects , and received a total of 13 nominations .
A story arc is an extended or continuing storyline in episodic storytelling media such as  टेलीविज़न , कॉमिक किताबे , कॉमिक स्ट्रिप्स , boardgames , वीडियो खेल , और in कुछ मामले  , films .
On a  टेलीविज़न कार्यक्रम , लिये उदाहरण  , the story would unfold over many episodes .
In television , the use of the  स्टोरी चाप is much अधिक आम in dramas than in comedies  , especially in soap operas .
Webcomics are more likely to use story arcs  than समाचारपत्र कॉमिक्स , as सबसे वेब कॉमिक्स have पठनीय अभिलेख  online that a newcomer to the strip can read in order to understand what is going on .
Although story arcs have existed for decades , the term `` story arc ''  थी coined in 1988 in संबंध to the टेलीविज़न श्रेणी wiseguy  , and was quickly adapted for other uses .
Many American comic book series are now  लिखा in चार or six-issue arcs , भीतर  a continuing series .
Short story arcs are easier to package as trade paperbacks  लिये पुनर्विक्रय , और अधिक accessible to the कैज़ुअल रीडर than the never-ending निरंतरता  that once characterised comics .
Black Friday is the day following  थैंक्सगिविंग दिन in the संयुक्त राज्य , प्रायः regarded  as the beginning of the Christmas shopping season .
In recent years , most major retailers have  खोली अत्यधिक जल्दी और offered promotional बिक्री to लात बंद the अवकाश खरीदारी ऋतु , समान to मुक्केबाज़ी दिन बिक्री  in many Commonwealth Nations .
Black Friday is not an official public holiday  as ऐसे , लकिन अनेक non-retail कर्मचारी और स्कूलों have दोनो थैंक्सगिविंग और the दिन बाद बंद , followed by a वीकेंड  , thereby increasing the number of potential shoppers .
it रै routinely महरूम the व्यस्ततम खरीदारी दिन of the साल चूंकि 2005  , although news reports , which at that time were inaccurate , have described it as the busiest shopping day of the year for a much longer period of time .
The day 's name originated in Philadelphia ,  जहाँ it originally थी प्रयुक्त to describe the भारी और विघटनकारी पैदल  and vehicle traffic which would occur on the day after Thanksgiving .
Use of the term started before 1961 and began  to देखिए broader उपयोग बाहर फिलाडेल्फिया around  1975 .
Later an  वैकल्पिक स्पष्टीकरण began to be offered : कि  `` Black Friday '' indicates the point at which retailers begin to turn a profit , or are `` '' .
For many years , it was common for retailers  to खोलें at 6:00 a.m. , लकिन in the लेट 2000s अनेक था crept to 5:00 or  even 4:00 .
This was taken to a new extreme in 2011 , when several retailers ( including Target , Kohl 's ,  macy 's , बेहतरीन ख़रीदे , और bealls ) खोली at मध्यरात्रि लिये the  first time .
In 2012 , Walmart and several other retailers announced that they would open most of their stores at 8:00 p.m. on Thanksgiving Day ( except in  राज्य जहाँ खोलने on थैंक्सगिविंग is निषिद्ध due to ब्लू कानून , ऐसे as मैसाचुसेट्स  where they still opened around midnight ) , prompting calls for a walkout among some workers .
Black  शुक्रवार खरीदारी is ज्ञात लिये attracting आक्रामक crowds , साथ सालाना रिपोर्ट्स of assaults , shootings  , and throngs of people trampling on other shoppers in an attempt to get the best deal on a product before supplies run out .
The Family That Preys is a 2008 American movie  नाटक लिखा , उत्पादित ,  and directed by Tyler Perry .
The  पटकथा focuses on दो परिवारों , एक धनवान और the अन्य working क्लास  , whose lives are intertwined in both love and business .
The movie is the second of four in  जिससे पेरी 's हस्ताक्षर अक्षर , madea  , does not make an appearance .
It is  भी the दूसरी perry-directed फिल्मी ( alongside पापा 's छोटी लड़कियों ) कि  is not based on any of the filmmaker 's stage plays .
Net 10 , Net 15 , Net 30 and Net 60 ( also Net 10 days , et al ) are forms of trade credit which specify that the net amount ( the total outstanding on the invoice ) is expected to be paid in full and  प्राप्त by the विक्रेता भीतर 10 , 15 , 30 or 60 दिनों बाद the goods हैं dispatched or सेवा is  completed .
Net 30 or Net 60 terms are often  coupled साथ a क्रेडिट लिये जल्दी भुगतान  .
The word net in  इस भाव अर्थात् `` कुल बाद सब  discounts . ''
It originally derives from the Latin nitere ( to  चमक ) और nitidus ( सुरुचिपूर्ण , trim ) , और अधिक recently  from the French net ( sharp , neat , clean ) .
roadtown , tortola
The British West Indies were  the आइलैंड्स in और around the caribbean कि यहूद भाग  of the British Empire .
In 1912 , the British West Indies were divided into eight colonies : The Bahamas , Barbados , British Guiana , British Honduras  , जमैका ( साथ इसके dependencies the turks और caicos आइलैंड्स और the केमन आइलैंड्स ) , त्रिनिदाद और टोबैगो , the windward  Islands and the Leeward Islands .
Between 1958 and 1962 , all of the island territories except the British Virgin Islands ,  the बहामा , अंग्रेजों होंडुरास और अंग्रेजों guiana यहूद संगठित into the वेस्ट इंडीज  Federation .
It was hoped that the  संघ होता become स्वतंत्र as a सिंगल स्वदेश , लकिन it था  limited powers , many practical problems , and a lack of popular support .
नतीजतन , the वेस्ट इंडीज  Federation was dissolved .
Most of the territories , including all the larger ones , are now independent as separate countries , with membership to many international forums such as the Organization of American States , the  संघ of caribbean राज्य , the संसार व्यापार संगठन , the संयुक्त राष्ट्र , the caribbean जातियाँ , the राष्ट्रमंडल of राष्ट्र और the caribbean विकास बैंको among  others .
the शेष हैं अंग्रेजों  overseas territories .
All the former nations of  the अंग्रेजों वेस्ट इंडीज , मगर the राष्ट्रमंडल of डोमिनिकन  , Guyana and Trinidad and Tobago , are Commonwealth Realms .
the पद is स्टिल प्रयुक्त लिये अंग्रेजों विदेशी territories  in the Caribbean , such as the Cayman Islands .
The remaining  अंग्रेजों वेस्ट इंडीज
`` What a Wonderful World '' is a  सोंग लिखा by bob thiele ( as `` जार्ज डगलस ''  ) and George David Weiss .
It was first recorded by  लुई आर्मस्ट्रांग और released as a सिंगल  in 1967 .
Thiele and Weiss were both prominent in the  म्यूज़िक संसार ( thiele as a निर्माता और वेइस as a composer/performer  ) .
आर्मस्ट्रांग 's रिकॉर्डिंग थी inducted in the  Grammy Hall of Fame in 1999 .
The publishing for this song  is नियंत्रित by मेमोरी लेन म्यूज़िक समूह , कार्लिन  Music Corp. , and Bug Music , Inc .
उद्घाटन दिन 2009 on the वेस्ट कदम of  the U.S. Capitol .
President George W. Bush and  पहला महिला लौरा बुश सीसे the inaugural परेड bas पेन्सिलवेनिया  Avenue to the White House , 2005
The inauguration of the president of the United States is  a ceremonial इवेंट अंकन the शुरुआत of a नई four-year पद of  a president of the United States .
the दिन a अध्यक्षीय उद्घाटन occurs is ज्ञात as `` उद्घाटन  Day '' and occurs on January 20 ( or 21st if the 20th is a Sunday ) .
( Prior to the Twentieth Amendment , the  तिथि थी कूच 4 , the दिन of the साल on जिससे the संविधान of the संयुक्त राज्य पहला took प्रभाव in 1789 ; the  last inauguration to take place on the older date was Franklin D. Roosevelt 's first one on March 4 , 1933 . )
The most recent public presidential inauguration  रस्म , the swearing in of अध्यक्ष बराक ओबामा to शुरू उसके दूसरी four-year पद  in office , took place on Monday , January 21 , 2013 .
The only inauguration element mandated by the United States Constitution is that the  अध्यक्ष मेक an शपथ or प्रतिज्ञान पहले कि व्यक्ति can `` डालें  on the Execution '' of the office of the presidency .
however , over the सालो , विभिन्न परंपराओं have arisen कि have विस्तारित the उद्घाटन  from a simple oath-taking ceremony to a day-long event , including parades , speeches , and balls .
From the presidency of Andrew  जैक्सन through कि of jimmy कार्टर , the प्राथमिक उद्घाटन  Day ceremony took place on the Capitol 's East Portico .
Since the  1981 उद्घाटन of रोनाल्ड reagan , the रस्म रै महरूम  held at the Capitol 's West Front .
The inaugurations of William Howard Taft in 1909 and Reagan in  1985 यहूद स्थानांतरित indoors at the कैपिटल due to ठंडा  weather .
The War of 1812 and  संसार युद्ध ii caused दो inaugurations to be आयोजित at  other locations in Washington , D.C .
When George Washington was inaugurated , the  शपथ थी administered by रॉबर्ट livingston , चांसलर of नई यॉर्क राज्य  , in 1789 , and by William Cushing , Associate Justice of the Supreme Court , in 1793 .
Since Chief  इंसाफ ओलिवर एल्सवर्थ swore in अध्यक्ष जॉन एडम्स , no मुख्य  justice has missed an Inauguration Day .
जब उद्घाटन दिन रै गिरे on a संडे , the मुख्य इंसाफ रै administered the शपथ  to the president on the Sunday privately and then again the next day publicly .
When a new president takes over mid-term due to  the मौत or इस्तीफा of a अध्यक्ष , the शपथ of दफ्तर is administered लकिन औपचारिक , पब्लिक उद्घाटन कार्यक्रम have नहीं महरूम  held .
Stefani Joanne Angelina Germanotta ( ; born March 28 , 1986 ) , known by her stage name Lady Gaga , is an American  सिंगर , songwriter , रिकार्ड निर्माता , नर्तकी , activist , businesswoman , फ़ैशन पंक्तियां , अभिनेत्री  and philanthropist .
Born and raised in New York City , she primarily studied at the  कान्वेंट of the पवित्र दिल और briefly attended नई यॉर्क विश्वविद्यालयों 's tisch स्कूल of the कला पहले withdrawing  to focus on her musical career .
She soon began  performing in the चट्टान म्यूज़िक झाँकी of मैनहटन  's Lower East Side .
By the end of 2007 ,  रिकार्ड कार्यपालिका और निर्माता विंसेंट हर्बर्ट हस्ताक्षरित  her to his label Streamline Records , an imprint of Interscope Records .
initially working as a songwriter at interscope रिकॉर्ड , उसके गायन abilities captured the ध्यान of  recording artist Akon , who also signed her to Kon Live Distribution , his own label under Interscope .
Lady Gaga came to prominence as a recording artist  following the रिलीज of उसके डेब्यू एल्बम , the कीर्ति ( 2008 ) , जिससे थी a नाजुक और वाणिज्यिक कामयाबी कि अव्वल चार्ट around the संसार  and included the international number-one singles `` Just Dance `` and `` Poker Face `` .
After embarking on the The Fame Ball Tour , she followed the album with The Fame  दानव ( 2009 ) , जिससे शाखित the विश्वव्यापी hit singles `` ख़राब रोमांस `` , `` टेलीफोन  `` , and `` Alejandro `` .
The Fame Monsters success allowed her to  embark on the eighteen-month long दानव बॉल दौरे , जिससे बाद became  one of the highest-grossing concert tours of all time .
Her most recent album , Born This Way ( 2011 ) ,  अव्वल the चार्ट of सबसे प्रमुख बाज़ार और उत्पन्न अधिक अंतरराष्ट्रीय chart-topping  singles , including `` Born This Way `` , `` Judas `` , and `` The Edge of Glory `` .
Influenced by  britney स्पीयर्स , दाउद बोवी , माइकल जैक्सन , मैडोना , और महारानी , महिला गागा is पहचाना लिये  her flamboyant , diverse and outré contributions to the music industry through her fashion , performances and music videos .
As of October 2011 , she has  बेची an अनुमानित 23 लाख एल्बम और 64 लाख singles विश्वव्यापी  and her singles are some of the best-selling worldwide .
Her  उपलब्धियाँ शामिल पाँच ग्रैमी पुरस्कार  and 13 MTV Video Music Awards .
Lady Gaga has consecutively appeared on Billboard magazine 's Artists of the Year ( scoring the definitive title in  2010 ) , क्रमित चौथी in vh1 's सूची of 100 महानतम महिलाओं in म्यूज़िक , is the छठे बेहतरीन selling डिजिटल singles कलाकार in us according to riaa , is regularly  placed on lists composed by Forbes magazine and was named one of the most influential people in the world by Time magazine .
Besides her musical career , she involves  herself साथ humanitarian कल्याणकारी और lgbt  activism .
McKethan  स्टेडियम घर of घड़ियाल  baseball
A picture  of the 1924  Baseball team
The Florida Gators baseball  टोली represents the विश्वविद्यालयों of फ्लोरिडा  in the sport of baseball .
The Florida Gators compete in  प्रभाग i of the नेशनल कॉलेजिएट एथलेटिक्स संघ ( ncaa )  , and the Eastern Division of the Southeastern Conference ( SEC ) .
They play their home games in Alfred A. McKethan  स्टेडियम on the विश्वविद्यालयों 's gainesville , फ्लोरिडा कैम्पस , और हैं फिलहाल  led by head coach Kevin O'Sullivan .
In the ninety-eight season history of the Gators baseball program , the  टोली रै जीती बारह सेक championships और रै appeared in आठ कॉलेज संसार श्रेणी  tournaments .
``  electioneering '' redirects  here .
For the  radiohead सोंग , देखिए ok कंप्यूटर  .
Presidential  अभियान बटन लिये अब्राहम lincoln  , 1860 .
The reverse side of the  बटन shows a पोर्ट्रेट of उसके कार्यशील mate hannibal  Hamlin .
A political campaign is an  व्यवस्थित प्रयत्न जिससे seeks to  influence the decision making process within a specific group .
In democracies , political  अभियान प्रायः refer to चुनावी अभियान , wherein प्रतिनिधि  are chosen or referendums are decided .
In modern politics , the most high profile political campaigns are focused on candidates for head of  राज्य or सिर of सरकारी , प्रायः a अध्यक्ष or प्रधान मंत्री  .
Elizabeth Cady Stanton and  उसके बेटी ,  Harriot
Elizabeth Cady Stanton ( November 12 , 1815 – October 26 , 1902 ) was an  अमरीकी सोशल activist , abolitionist , और अग्रणी  figure of the early women 's rights movement .
Her Declaration of Sentiments ,  प्रस्तुत at the पहला महिलाओं 's अधिकारों सम्मेलन आयोजित in 1848 in seneca जलप्रपात , नई यॉर्क , is प्रायः credited साथ initiating the पहला व्यवस्थित  women 's rights and women 's suffrage movements in the United States .
Before Stanton narrowed her political focus almost exclusively to women 's rights , she  थी an क्रियाशील abolitionist साथ साथ उसके husband ,  Henry Brewster Stanton and cousin , Gerrit Smith .
Unlike many of those involved in the women 's rights movement , Stanton addressed  विभिन्न मुद्दे pertaining to महिलाओं परे मतदान  rights .
Her concerns included women 's parental and  कस्टडी अधिकारों , प्रॉपर्टी अधिकारों , नियुक्ति और आय अधिकारों , तलाक , the आर्थिक स्वास्थ्य  of the family , and birth control .
She was also an  outspoken समर्थक of the 19th-century  temperance movement .
After the American Civil War , Stanton 's commitment to female suffrage caused a schism in the women 's rights movement when she , together  साथ सुसान B. एंथोनी , अस्वीकृत to support ड्योढ़ी of the fourteenth और पंद्रहवीं amendments to the  United States Constitution .
She opposed giving added legal protection and voting  अधिकारों to अफ़्रीकी अमरीकी मेन जबकि महिलाओं , ब्लैक और  white , were denied those same rights .
Her position on this issue , together with her thoughts on organized Christianity and women 's issues beyond voting rights , led to the formation of two  पृथक महिलाओं 's अधिकारों संगठन कि यहूद आखिरकार rejoined , साथ stanton as अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त संगठन , लगभग बीस  years after her break from the original women 's suffrage movement .
Stanton died in 1902 having authored both The Woman 's Bible  और उसके आत्मकथा , साथ साथ अनेक आलेख और pamphlets concerning मादा suffrage और महिलाओं 's  rights .
My Fair Lady is a  musical आधारित upon जार्ज बर्नार्ड शॉ 's pygmalion और साथ किताब  and lyrics by Alan Jay Lerner and music by Frederick Loewe .
The  स्टोरी चिंताएं eliza doolittle , a काकनी पुष्प लड़की जो takes वाक  lessons from professor Henry Higgins , a phoneticist , so that she may pass as a well-born lady .
The musical 's 1956 Broadway production was a hit ,  सेटिंग कया थी तब the रिकार्ड लिये the longest  run of any major musical theatre production in history .
It was  followed by a hit लंदन उत्पादन , a लोकप्रिय  film version , and numerous revivals .
It has been  पुकारा `` the पूर्ण musical  '' .
Deregulation is the  अधिनियम or प्रक्रम of निकालना or  reducing state regulations .
It is therefore opposite of  विनियमन , जिससे refers to the प्रक्रम of the सरकारी regulating  certain activities .
The Boston Bruins Radio Network is a 25-station ( 17  a.M. , 8 f.m . प्लस 2 f.m . अनुवादक ) सीबीएस रेडियो संजाल जिससे carries सजीव खेल  broadcasts of the Boston Bruins .
The network 's flagship station  is wbz-fm /98.5- बोस्टन ,  Massachusetts .
डेव goucher announces  play-by-play .
Bob Beers  provides रंग commentary  .
This article  is परिचय the छोटी  story .
For the poem by Sara Teasdale  , देखिए वहीँ होगा आइये नरम  Rains .
`` There Will Come Soft Rains '' is a short story by science fiction  लेखक रे bradbury जिससे थी पहला प्रकाशित in the may 6 , 1950 समस्या of collier  's .
Later that  वही साल the स्टोरी थी शामिल in bradbury  's The Martian Chronicles ( 1950 ) .
With over 1.2  अरब लोगों , हान चाइनीज is the  largest ethnic group in the world .
Pashtun people of the  pashtunistan प्रदेश , जिससे sits in an क्षेत्रफल between दक्षिण of the हिन्दू  Kush in Afghanistan and the Indus River in Pakistan .
वे क्रमांक around  50 million .
The Korowai people of  पापुआ गिने बस around 3,000 लोगों , और यहूद  uncontacted until the 1970s .
Ethnicity or ethnic group is a  socially पारिभाषित श्रेणी आधारित on आम संस्कृति or राष्ट्रीयता  .
नस्ल can , लकिन करता नहीं have to , शामिल आम ancestry , रूप ,  cuisine , dressing style , heritage , history , language or dialect , religion , symbols , traditions , or other cultural factor .
Ethnic identity is constantly reinforced through common characteristics which  नियत the समूह अलावा इससे अन्य समूह .
The 19.9 MW Gemasolar solar  संयंत्र in स्पेन सुविधाएँ 15 घंटों of भंडार और can सप्लाई शक्ति 24 घंटों  a day .
Solar energy ,  रौशन लाइट और ऊष्मा इससे the सूर्य , रै  been harnessed by humans since ancient times using a range of ever-evolving technologies .
Solar energy technologies include solar heating , solar photovoltaics , solar thermal electricity ,  सौर वास्तुकला और कृत्रिम photosynthesis , जिससे can मेक considerable योगदान  to solving some of the most urgent energy problems the world now faces .
Solar technologies are broadly  characterized as either passive सौर or क्रियाशील सौर depending on the रास्ता वे कैप्चर , बदलें  and distribute solar energy .
Active solar techniques include the use of  photovoltaic panels और सौर थर्मल collectors  to harness the energy .
Passive solar techniques include orienting a building to the Sun , selecting materials  साथ अनुकूल थर्मल द्रव्यमान or लाइट dispersing गुण  , and designing spaces that naturally circulate air .
In 2011 , the International Energy Agency said that `` the development of  सस्ती , inexhaustible और साफ सौर उर्जा technologies होगा have विशाल longer-term लाभ  .
It will increase countries’ energy security through reliance on an indigenous ,  inexhaustible और ज़्यादातर import-independent संसाधन , बढ़ाएँ स्थिरता , reduce  pollution , lower the costs of mitigating climate change , and keep fossil fuel prices lower than otherwise .
ये लाभ  are global .
Hence the additional costs of  the प्रोत्साहन लिये जल्दी deployment चाहिए be माना सीखना  investments ; they must be wisely spent and need to be widely shared '' .
The classical Latin alphabet or Roman alphabet evolved  इससे a पश्चिमी किस्में of the यूनानी वर्णमाला पुकारा the cumaean वर्णमाला , जिससे  was adopted and modified by the Etruscans who ruled early Rome .
The  etruscan वर्णमाला थी in फेरे अपनाया और further परिवर्धित  by the ancient Romans to write the Latin language .
During the Middle  आयु , the लैटिन वर्णमाला थी adapted to रोमांस भाषाएं , सीधा  descendants of Latin , as well as to Celtic , Germanic , Baltic , and some Slavic languages .
With the  आयु of उपनिवेशवाद और ईसाई इंजीलवाद , the लैटिन स्क्रिप्ट थी  spread overseas , and applied to indigenous American , Australian , Austronesian , Austroasiatic , and African languages .
More recently , linguists have also tended to prefer the Latin script or the International Phonetic  वर्णमाला ( itself largely आधारित on लैटिन स्क्रिप्ट ) जब transcribing or बनाना लिखा  standards for non-European languages , such as the African reference alphabet .
The term Latin alphabet may refer to either the alphabet used to write Latin ( as described in this article  ) , or अन्य alphabets आधारित on the लैटिन स्क्रिप्ट , जिससे is the मौलिक नियत of अक्षर आम to the विभिन्न alphabets descended  from the classical Latin one , such as the English alphabet .
ये latin-derived alphabets may छोड़ें अक्षर ,  like the Rotokas alphabet , or add new letters , like the Danish and Norwegian alphabet .
Letter shapes have changed over the centuries , including the creation for  मध्यकालीन लैटिन of निम्नतर मामला फ़ॉर्म जिससे किया नहीं मौजूद in the शास्त्रीय  period .
The  हत्या of संयुक्त राज्य अध्यक्ष अब्राहम lincoln took  place on Good Friday , April 14 , 1865 , as the American Civil War was drawing to a close .
The  हत्या occurred पाँच दिनों बाद the कमांडर of the confederate फौज of उत्तरी वर्जिनिया  , General Robert E. Lee , surrendered to Lieutenant General Ulysses S. Grant and the Union Army of the Potomac .
Lincoln was the first American president to be assassinated , though an  unsuccessful attempt था महरूम बना on एंड्रयू जैक्सन 30 सालो पहले in 1835  .
The assassination was planned and carried out by the well-known stage actor John Wilkes Booth , as part of a  larger षड्यंत्र in a बोली to revive the confederate कारण .
Booth 's  co-conspirators यहूद लुईस पावेल और दाउद herold , जो यहूद आबंटित to मार  Secretary of State William H. Seward , and George Atzerodt who was to kill Vice President Andrew Johnson .
By simultaneously eliminating the  शीर्ष तीन लोगों in the प्रशासन , बूथ और उसके co-conspirators hoped to sever  the continuity of the United States government .
Lincoln was shot while watching the play Our American Cousin with his wife Mary  टॉड lincoln at घाट 's थिएटर in वॉशिंगटन , d.C. on the रात्रि of अप्रैल 14 , 1865  .
He died  जल्दी the अगला  morning .
The rest of the  षड्यंत्रकारियों ' प्लाट विफल ; पावेल तभी प्रबंधित to घाव seward , जबकि atzerodt  , Johnson 's would-be assassin , lost his nerve and fled Washington .
Add-on  might mean:
Plug-in ( computing ) , a piece of software  जिससे enhances another तन्त्र अनुप्रयोग और प्रायः can नहीं be  run independently
ब्राउजर एक्सटेंशन  , which modifies the interface and/or behavior of web browsers
Add-on ( Mozilla ) , a piece of software that  enhances और customizes mozilla-based  applications
Add-ons for Firefox  ( addons.mozilla.org ) , the आधिकारिक मोज़िला न्यास वेब  site which serves as a repository of add-ons for Mozilla-based applications
Peripheral , an optional computer hardware  घटक कि significantly पूरक or enhances the कार्यक्षमता  of the original unit
Video game  accessory , a टुकड़ा of हार्डवेयर प्रयुक्त in संयोजन साथ  a video game console for playing video games
Club level seating is a special section  of seating in आधुनिक खेल स्टेडियम  .
The Club Level is usually located towards the middle of  the स्टेज of seating भाग , ऊपर the निम्नतर  deck but below the upper deck .
They are  प्रायः सही अगला to the लक्ज़री बाक्स , either सही ऊपर  , right below , or sandwiched between two levels of Luxury Boxes .
Club Level  seating is माना as उच्चतर क्लास than बैठे anywhere else  in the arena , but lower class compared to the Luxury Boxes .
Unlike the Luxury Boxes , most club levels do not wrap  entirely around the एरिना  .
Some club levels stop at a certain point , giving way to an expansion of the Mezzanine , while  अन्य दे रास्ता to निम्नतर क्लास लक्ज़री बाक्स ( ऐसे as `` पार्टी suites '' )  .
A notable exception to this is Emirates  स्टेडियम in लंदन , जिससे  has a complete tier of club seating .
Club Levels allow  प्रशंसक अनेक स्तर  of entertainment .
Club Level seating is open to the elements , as opposed  to the entirely enclosed लक्ज़री बाक्स , जिससे देता अधिक of an बाहरी छाप at roofless  and open-roof stadiums and arenas .
Club Level seating is  सामान्यतः खरीदा on a अनुबंध आधार to allow लिये अधिकतम लाभ  on the part of the stadium .
The Club Level provides  प्रशंसक साथ खास अभिगम to an अंदर भाग of the एरिना विशेष to प्रशंसक  with special tickets .
These areas are air conditioned and allow access to special  रेस्तरां , merchandise स्टैंड , और लाउंज क्षेत्रों of  the stadium that are not otherwise available .
Concession stands and vendors on the Club Level  भी प्रायः प्रस्ताव अलग मेनू than in अन्य स्टैंड to दे  more of a special feel to the Club .
These areas are closed off to the rest of the stadium  , और वे प्रायः can तभी be पहुँचा  through the exclusive , private club entrances .
Sophia  लोरेन ( ; born सोफिया villani scicolone ; 20  September 1934 ) is an Italian actress .
Loren is widely  पहचाना as इटली 's सबसे  renowned and honored actress .
She was the  पहला अभिनेत्री of the talkie era to जीत an अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये a non-english-speaking प्रदर्शन  , for her portrayal of Cesira in Vittorio De Sica 's Two Women .
Her other awards  शामिल a ग्रैमी पुरस्कार , पाँच खास  Golden Globes , a BAFTA Award and a Laurel Award .
In 1995 she received the Cecil B. DeMille  पुरस्कार लिये आजीवन उपलब्धियाँ , एक of अनेक  such awards .
Her films include : Houseboat ( 1958 ) , El Cid ( 1961 ) , Yesterday , Today and Tomorrow ( 1963  ) , विवाह italian-style ( 1964 ) , और a खास दिन ( 1977 ) .
In later  सालो वो रै appeared in अमरीकी blockbusters  such as Grumpier Old Men ( 1995 ) , and Nine ( 2009 ) .
In 1994 she starred in Robert Altman  's prêt-à-porter , जिससे अर्जित उसके a सुनहरी ग्लोब नामांकन the वही  year .
वो रै भी हासिल नाजुक और  commercial success in TV movies such as Courage ( 1986 ) .
Deaths for self-inflicted injuries  प्रति 100,000 निवासियों in 2004  .
incidence of आत्महत्या is underreported due to दोनो  religious and social pressures , and possibly completely unreported in some areas .
nevertheless , इससे reported मामले ,  certain trends are apparent .
चूंकि the आंकड़ा is skewed , comparing आत्महत्या दरों  between nations is statistically unsound .
The  रुझान themselves हैं नहीं the कारण , लकिन may be  indicative of a root cause .
The Oprah Winfrey Leadership Academy for  लड़कियों - दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी is a मादा बोर्डिंग स्कूल संस्थापित  in January 2007 and located in Henley on Klip near Meyerton , south of Johannesburg , South Africa .
The academy was founded by Oprah Winfrey with the goal of providing educational and  नेतृत्व अवसर लिये academically gifted लड़कियों इससे impoverished पृष्ठभूमि  .
ओपरा विनफ्रे नेतृत्व  Academy for Girls
Digicel is a  मोबाईल फोन संजाल प्रदाता ऑपरेटिंग in 31 बाज़ार आरपार the caribbean , सेंट्रल  America , and Oceania regions .
The  कम्पनी is स्वामित्व by  Irishman Denis O'Brien , is incorporated in Bermuda , and based in Jamaica .
It has  परिचय 13 लाख बेतार  users .
As of 2012 , Digicel 's markets comprise : Anguilla , Antigua and Barbuda , Aruba , Barbados , Bermuda , Bonaire , the British Virgin Islands , the Cayman Islands , Curacao , Dominica , El Salvador , Fiji , French Guiana , Grenada , Guadeloupe , Guyana , Haiti , Jamaica , Martinique , Nauru , Panama  , पापुआ नई गिनी , समोआ , संत किट्स और नेविस , संत लूसिया , संत विंसेंट और the grenadines , सूरीनाम  , Tonga , Trinidad & Tobago , Turks and Caicos , and Vanuatu .
इस is a सूची of रिकॉर्ड of the  FIFA World Cup and its qualification matches .
Hospital  आपात कोड हैं प्रयुक्त in अस्पताल विश्वव्यापी  to alert staff to various emergencies .
The use of codes is  intended to convey अनिवार्य सूचना जल्दी और साथ minimal गलतफहमी to स्टाफ , जबकि  preventing stress and panic among visitors to the hospital .
These codes may be posted on placards throughout the  हॉस्पिटल , or मुद्रित on कर्मचारी पहचान बैज  for ready reference .
Back of a hospital ID  बैज प्रर्दशित विपत्ति कोड  .
Hospital emergency codes may denote  अलग कार्यक्रम at अलग अस्पताल , सहित  nearby ones .
Because many physicians work at more than one  सुविधा , इस may सीसे to भ्रम in emergencies , so वर्दी प्रणालियों have  been proposed .
The route of the  eifel जलसेतु , साथ  its average slope .
The  eifel जलसेतु थी  one of the longest aqueducts of the Roman Empire .
The  जलसेतु , constructed in ad 80 , carried जल कुछ इससे the hilly eifel प्रदेश of कया is अभी  Germany to the ancient city of Colonia Claudia Ara Agrippinensium ( present-day Cologne ) .
If the  auxiliary स्पर्स to अतिरिक्त  springs are included , the length was .
The construction was almost entirely below  मैदान , और the प्रवाह of the जल थी उत्पादित  entirely by gravity .
A few bridges , including one up  to in लंबाई , यहूद needed to pass over  valleys .
Unlike some of the other famous Roman  aqueducts , the eifel जलसेतु थी specifically designed to  minimize the above-ground portion to protect it from damage and freezing .
In chemistry , a  disulfide बंध ( br.e . disulphide बंध ) is a covalent बंध , प्रायः निकला  by the coupling of two thiol groups .
The linkage is also called an  ss-bond or disulfide सेतु  .
The overall  कनेक्टिविटी is इसलिए r-s-s-r  .
The terminology  is widely प्रयुक्त in  biochemistry .
In formal terms , the connection is a persulfide , in analogy to  इसके congener , परऑक्साइड ( r-o-o-r ) , लकिन इस शब्दावली is अस्पष्ट और is no longer प्रयुक्त ( मगर in सन्दर्भ  to R-S-S-H or H-S-S-H compounds ) .
Formal depiction  of disulfide बंध गठन  as an oxidation .
Westminster Abbey is used  लिये the राजतिलक of अंग्रेजों  monarchs
Religion in the United Kingdom and in the countries that preceded it , has been dominated , for over 1,400  सालो , by विभिन्न फ़ॉर्म of christianity  .
According to some surveys , a majority of citizens still identify with Christianity , although  नियमित गिरिजाघर उपस्थिति रै गिरे dramatically चूंकि the मध्य of the 20th सदी , और आव्रजन और जनसांख्यिकी बदलें have contributed  to the growth of other faiths .
Religious affiliations of  uk नागरिकों हैं अंकित by नियमित सर्वेक्षण , the चार प्रमुख ones होने  the UK Census , the Labour Force Survey , the British Social Attitudes survey and the European Social Survey .
according to the 2001 uk जनसांख्यिकी , christianity is the प्रमुख धर्म , followed by islam  , Hinduism , Sikhism , Judaism and Buddhism in terms of number of adherents .
इस , और the अपेक्षाकृत विशाल क्रमांक of individuals साथ नाममात्र or no धार्मिक  affiliations has led commentators to variously describe the United Kingdom as a multi-faith , secularised , or post-Christian society .
The United Kingdom was formed by the union of previously  स्वतंत्र देशों इससे 1707 , और नतीजतन सबसे of the largest  religious groups do not have UK-wide organisational structures .
While some groups have separate structures for the  व्यक्तिगत देशों of the संयुक्त किंगडम , अन्य may have a सिंगल ढांचा  covering England and Wales or Great Britain .
Similarly , due to the relatively recent creation of Northern Ireland  in 1921 , सबसे प्रमुख धार्मिक समूह in उत्तरी आयरलैंड  are organised on an all-Ireland basis .
The 1967 Newark riots were a major civil disturbance that occurred in the city of  न्यूर्क , नई जर्सी between जुलाई 12 और जुलाई 17 , 1967  .
The six days of rioting , looting , and destruction  बाएँ 26 मुर्दे और सैंकड़ों घायल  .
In  संयुक्त राज्य कॉलेज एथलेटिक्स , redshirt is a विलंब or बर्खास्तगी  of an athlete 's participation in order to lengthen his or her period of eligibility .
Typically , a student 's athletic eligibility in a given sport is four seasons , a number  निकला इससे the चार सालो of अकादमिक वर्ग कि हैं सामान्यतः जरूरी to obtain a स्नातक 's उपाधि at an अमरीकी कॉलेज or  university .
However , a student athlete may be offered the opportunity to redshirt for up to  दो सालो , जिससे allows the खिलाड़ी to स्प्रेड those चार सालो of पात्रता over पाँच , or  sometimes six years .
In a redshirt year , a  छात्र खिलाड़ी may attend वर्ग at the कॉलेज or विश्वविद्यालयों , अभ्यास साथ an एथलेटिक टोली , और  dress for play but he or she may not compete during the game .
Using this mechanism , a student athlete has up to five academic years to use  the चार सालो of पात्रता , यूँ बनने  a fifth-year senior .
The term is used as  a क्रिया , संज्ञा , और क्रियाशील  .
For example , a coach may choose to  redshirt a खिलाड़ी जो is तब referred to as a redshirt freshman or बस a  redshirt .
The  विपरीत of इस is  a `` true freshman . ''
World War I ( WWI ) was a  वैश्विक युद्ध केंद्रित in यूरोपीय कि began on 28 जुलाई 1914 और lasted  until 11 November 1918 .
It was  predominantly पुकारा the संसार युद्ध or the ग्रेट युद्ध इससे इसके occurrence  until the start of World War II in 1939 , and the First World War or World War I thereafter .
it शामिल सब the संसार 's ग्रेट शक्तियां , जिससे यहूद समवेत in दो opposing alliances : the allies ( आधारित on the ट्रिपल entente  of the United Kingdom , France and Russia ) and the Central Powers ( originally the Triple Alliance of Germany , Austria-Hungary and Italy ; but , as Austria–Hungary had taken the offensive against the agreement , Italy did not enter into the war ) .
ये alliances यहूद दोनो reorganised और विस्तारित as अधिक राष्ट्र  entered the war : Italy , Japan and the United States joined the Allies , and the Ottoman Empire and Bulgaria the Central Powers .
Ultimately , more than 70 million military personnel , including 60 million  europeans , यहूद mobilised in एक of the largest युद्धों in  history .
More than 9 million combatants were killed , largely because of  technological advancements कि led to विशाल increases in the lethality of हथियार बगैर सम्बन्धित  improvements in protection or mobility .
It was the fifth- deadliest conflict in world history , subsequently paving  the रास्ता लिये विभिन्न राजनैतिक परिवर्तन  , such as revolutions in many of the nations involved .
One of the long-term causes of the war was the resurgence of  साम्राज्यवाद in the विदेशी नीतियों of the ग्रेट शक्तियां of यूरोपीय  .
More immediately , the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria , the heir to the  सिंहासन of austria-hungary , on 28 जून 1914 by यूगोस्लाव राष्ट्रवादी gavrilo princip in साराजेवो triggered a राजनयिक संकट  when Austria-Hungary subsequently delivered an ultimatum to the Kingdom of Serbia .
Several alliances  formed over the  previous decades were invoked .
Within weeks , the major powers were  at युद्ध और , via उनके colonies , the विरोध  soon spread around the world .
On 28 July , the Austro-Hungarians fired the first shots of the war as  तैयारी लिये the आक्रमण  of Serbia .
While the Russians  mobilised , the germans invaded न्यूट्रल बेल्जियम और ध्वज on the रास्ता to फ़्रांस  , providing a casus belli for Britain 's declaration of war against Germany .
After the German march on Paris was brought to a halt—the so-called Miracle of the Marne —the Western  सामने settled into a स्थिर बैटल of अपघर्षण साथ a गर्त लकीर कि बदला छोटी जबतक  1917 .
On the Eastern Front  , the रूसी फौज थी कामयाब विरूद्ध the austro-hungarians , लकिन थी  stopped in its invasion of East Prussia by the Germans .
In November the Ottoman  साम्राज्य joined the युद्ध , खोलने  up fronts in the Caucasus , Mesopotamia and the Sinai .
Italy and  बुल्गारिया गई to युद्ध in 1915 और  Romania in 1916 .
In Russia , the tsar 's government  collapsed in कूच 1917 और a subsequent क्रान्ति in नवम्बर brought the russians to शर्तें साथ the सेंट्रल  Powers .
After a  1918 जर्मनी अप्रिय साथ the पश्चिमी सामने , the allies drove  back the Germans in a series of successful offensives and American forces began entering the trenches .
Germany  , जिससे था इसके अपना ट्रबल साथ क्रांतिकारियों , सहमत  to an armistice on 11 November 1918 .
the युद्ध ended in  victory for the Allies .
Events on the home  fronts यहूद as उग्र as on the बैटल fronts , as the भागीदार  tried to mobilize their manpower and economic resources to fight a total war .
By the end of the war , four major imperial powers—the German , Russian ,  austro-hungarian और उस्मानी empires—ceased  to exist .
The successor states of the  पूर्व दो खोया a ग्रेट राशि of territory ,  while the latter two were dismantled entirely .
The map of central  यूरोपीय थी redrawn into  several smaller states .
The League of Nations was formed in the  आशा of preventing another ऐसे विरोध .
The  यूरोपीय राष्ट्रवाद शाखित by the युद्ध और the ब्रेकअप of empires , the परखना of जर्मनी  's defeat and problems with the Treaty of Versailles are agreed to be factors contributing to World War II .
Map of countries that declared themselves to be socialist states under the Marxist–Leninist or  माओवादी परिभाषा - कि is to कह , `` कम्युनिस्ट राज्य '' - between  1979 and 1983 .
This period  चिह्नित the महानतम territorial extent  of Communist states .
A communist state is a state where the means  of उत्पादन हैं collectively स्वामित्व by the समाज  .
It has a form of government characterized by single-party rule or dominant-party rule of a communist party ( referred as Dictatorship of the  proletariat by इसके proponents ) और a professed निष्ठा to a leninist or marxist–leninist विचारधारा  as the guiding principle of the state .
Technically , ``  कम्युनिस्ट राज्य '' is a contradictio in terminis as a कम्युनिस्ट समाज as पारिभाषित  by both Marxists and anarcho-communists is in principle stateless .
From  इस परिप्रेक्ष्य , the पद marxist-leninist  state is more appropriate .
Historically , a `` communist state '' referred to a  प्रणाली जहाँ पब्लिक स्वामित्व of सब or सबसे अर्थात् of उत्पादन by the कम्युनिस्ट पार्टी -run राज्य is deemed जरुरी to further the रूचि of the working क्लास  ; today , a communist state can also , for instance , refer to contemporary China and Vietnam , where a Communist Party-run state exists alongside a mixed economy .
According to Marxist–Leninists , the state is a tool in the hands of the ruling class , which in a  समाजवादी समाज is the working क्लास , so a समाजवादी राज्य is , according  to Leninists , a state of the working class .
In practice , communist states  do नहीं दरअसल refer to themselves  as such .
They do this not to disguise the fact that  the सत्ताधारी पार्टी is कम्युनिस्ट , लकिन बल्कि क्युकी वे do नहीं consider themselves to be a कम्युनिस्ट समाज  at present .
Instead , they constitutionally identify  themselves as समाजवादी राज्य  or workers ' states .
The primary goal of these states , which also explains their official name , is to guide their respective  देशों in the प्रक्रम of भवन समाजवादी , ultimately अग्रणी to साम्यवादी  .
Communist states may have several legal political parties , but the communist party is usually granted a  खास or प्रबल भूमिका in सरकारी , प्रायः by statute or अंतर्गत the  constitution .
Consequently , the institutions of the state  और of the कम्युनिस्ट पार्टी become intimately entwined , ऐसे as in the  development of parallel institutions .
In the 20th century , most communist  राज्य अपनाया नियोजित  economies .
However , there were exceptions : The Soviet Union during the 1920s and late 1980s and  यूगोस्लाविया बाद संसार युद्ध ii अनुमत सीमित बाज़ार और a उपाधि of कार्यकर्ता self-management , जबकि चीन , वियतनाम और लाओस introduced far-reaching  market reforms after the 1980s .
In the 21st century , China  और वियतनाम have अनुमत a मिश्रित अर्थव्यवस्था  to develop .
The fundamental concepts of  कम्युनिस्ट राज्य प्रायः diverge इससे the असली socio-economic विचारधाराओं  from which they develop .
As a result , many  adherents of ये विचारधाराओं प्रायः oppose the राजनैतिक प्रणालियों  commonly associated with these states .
For  उदाहरण , dissenting साम्यवादियों ऐसे as trotskyists यहूद प्रायः opposed to the कम्युनिस्ट राज्य of the 20th सदी , claiming either  that they had nothing to do with `` real '' communism or that the ideology of such states had reached a point of irrevocable corruption .
Michael  फ्रेड फेल्प्स ii ( born जून 30 , 1985 ) is  a retired American swimmer and the most decorated Olympian of all time , with a total of 22 medals .
Phelps also holds the  all-time रिकॉर्ड लिये ओलम्पिक सुनहरा medals ( 18 , दोगुना the दूसरी उच्चतम रिकार्ड धारकों ) , ओलम्पिक सुनहरा medals in व्यक्तिगत  events ( 11 ) , and Olympic medals in individual events for a male ( 13 ) .
In winning eight gold medals at the 2008 Beijing Games , Phelps took  the रिकार्ड लिये the सबसे first-place finishes at कोई सिंगल  Olympic Games .
Five of those victories were in individual  कार्यक्रम , tying the सिंगल खेल रिकार्ड  .
In  the 2012 गर्मियाँ ओलंपिक in लंदन , फेल्प्स जीती चार golds और दो चांदी medals ,  making him the most successful athlete of the Games for the third Olympics in a row .
Phelps is the long course world recordholder in the  100-meter तितली , 200-meter तितली और 400-meter व्यक्तिगत medley as खूब as the पूर्व long कोर्स संसार recordholder  in the 200-meter freestyle and 200-meter individual medley .
He has won a total of 71 medals in major  अंतरराष्ट्रीय long-course प्रतियोगिता , 57 सुनहरा , 11 चांदी , और तीन कांस्य spanning the ओलंपिक  , the World , and the Pan Pacific Championships .
Phelps 's international titles and record-breaking  प्रदर्शन have अर्जित उसे the संसार तैराक of the साल पुरस्कार सात टाइम्स और अमरीकी तैराक of the साल पुरस्कार  nine times as well as the FINA Swimmer of the Year Award in 2012 .
His unprecedented  ओलम्पिक कामयाबी in 2008 अर्जित फेल्प्स  Sports Illustrated magazine 's Sportsman of the Year award .
After the 2008 Summer  ओलंपिक , फेल्प्स प्रारंभ the माइकल फेल्प्स न्यास , जिससे focuses  on growing the sport of swimming and promoting healthier lifestyles .
He expects to do further work with his foundation after the 2012  ओलंपिक , जिससे he रै कहा होगा  be his last .
Lenovo Group Limited ( )  is a चाइनीज बहुराष्ट्रीय कंप्यूटर हार्डवेयर और इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स कम्पनी साथ इसके  headquarters in Beijing , China and Morrisville , North Carolina and its registered office in Hong Kong , China .
Its products include  निजी कंप्यूटर , टैब्लेट कंप्यूटर , मोबाईल फोन , workstations , सर्वर ,  electronic storage devices , IT management software and smart televisions .
Lenovo is the  संसार 's second-largest pc  vendor by 2012 unit sales .
It markets the ThinkPad  लकीर of कोपी कंप्यूटर और the thinkcentre  line of desktops .
लेनोवो रै परिचालन in अधिक than 60 देशों  and sells its products in around 160 countries .
Lenovo was founded in  बीजिंग in 1984 और incorporated in हांग काँग  in 1988 under its previous name , Legend .
Lenovo is listed on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange and is a  constituent of the हैंग सेंग china-affiliated corporations  Index .
Slug is a common name for an  जाहिर shell-less स्थलीय  gastropod mollusk .
The word `` slug '' is also often used as part of the common name of any  gastropod mollusc कि रै no शेल , रै a बहुत घटाया शेल , or रै तभी a छोटी आतंरिक  shell .
( This is in contrast to the common name `` snail `` ,  जिससे is लागू to gastropods कि have a नतीजे शेल कि is विशाल पर्याप्त कि the नरम भाग of the  animal can retract fully into it . )
Slugs exist on land and in the sea , and there is  भी एक genus of freshwater slugs , acochlidium .
The unadorned word `` slug '' is  however लागू primarily to जमीन slugs , whereas slugs इससे the समुद्र or इससे freshwater  are usually referred to as `` sea slugs `` and `` freshwater slugs '' .
Land gastropods with a shell that is not  काफी vestigial , लकिन is too छोटी to retract into ( जैसे अनेक in the परिवार  Urocyclidae ) , are known as semislugs .
The various taxonomic families of slugs form  भाग of अनेक काफी अलग विकासवादी lineages जिससे भी  include snails .
Thus , for example , the various families of land slugs are not very  closely सम्बन्धित to एक another , despite a सतही समानता in  the overall body form .
The  shell-less कंडीशन रै arisen अनेक टाइम्स independently दौरान the विकासवादी  past , and thus the category `` slug '' is emphatically a polyphyletic one .
Slugs , like all other gastropods , undergo torsion ( a 180° twisting  of the आतंरिक अंगों ) दौरान विकास  .
Internally , slug anatomy clearly shows the effects of this rotation , but externally the bodies of land  slugs appear to be अधिक or कम सममित , मगर लिये the positioning of the pneumostome , जिससे is on एक पक्ष of the एनिमल , सामान्यतः  the right hand side .
The soft , slimy bodies of slugs are prone to desiccation , so land-living  slugs हैं confined to नम environments और जरूर रिट्रीट to नम  hiding places when the weather is dry .
The subsequent information in  इस आलेख applies to जमीन  slugs .
is a Latin word that  अर्थात् `` यूँ '' or , in लिखने , `` it थी यूँ in  the source material '' .
Sic  may भी refer  to:
Sic  , cluj , a कम्यून  in Romania
sic , the क्षेत्रीय  code for Sicily
Sic (  रव कलाकार ) , styled as [ sic ] , स्टेज नाम of जेनिफर  Morris , a Canadian noise artist
Sic ( band ) is a  आधुनिक hardcore/thrash मेटल बैंड इससे torshavn , the पूंजी  of the Faroe Islands
`` ( sic )  '' , a सोंग by अमरीकी बैंड slipknot  on the album Slipknot
SIC , the initial of  मार्को simoncelli  .
SIC as an  एक्रोनिम may स्टैंड  for:
sic , सिलिकॉन कार्बाइड , a semiconducting  material , also used to make metalworking tools
SIC ( cyclecar )  ( società इटालियाना cyclecars  )
Standard Industrial Classification ,  a 20th-century u.S. प्रणाली लिये classifying  industries
अंतरराष्ट्रीय मानक औद्योगिक वर्गीकरण  a UN system for economic activities
Shetland  आइलैंड्स परिषद
the Swiss  interbank clearing  system
सैन isidro क्लबों  , an Argentine rugby union club
Standing Interpretation Committee , a committee dedicated to the  निर्वचन of अंतरराष्ट्रीय हिसाब मानकों  IFRS
schwarz सूचना मानदंड  in the field of statistics
second-in-command in the फ़ील्ड of  aviation
Sistema  interconectado सेंट्रल शक्ति ग्रिड  in Chile
Sociedade  independente de comunicação ( sic ) , a टेलीविज़न  channel in Portugal
Sea Isle City , New Jersey , a  तटीय कस्बा in the संयुक्त राज्य
Segmented Integer  काउंटर विधि , a विधि of आपरेशन  in cryptography
Sepang International  सर्किट , a high-end racetrack कि होस्ट the  Malaysian round of Formula 1
शंघाई अंतरराष्ट्रीय सर्किट  , a motor racing venue in Shanghai , China
Simplified  निर्देशात्मक कंप्यूटर , a काल्पनिक  computer used in systems programming
SIC ( Sons Idées Couleurs ) , an early  twentieth-century आर्ट पत्रिका उत्पादित by फ्रेंच  author Pierre Albert-Birot
Southeastern Illinois College , a two year Junior College in  harrisburg , इलिनोइस , संयुक्त राज्य
Specific inductive capacity , abbreviated to SIC , which is more  commonly ज्ञात as the सापेक्ष विद्युतशीलता or the परावैद्युत  constant
St Ignatius ' College ,  riverview , a जेसुइट स्कूल in सिडनी ,  Australia
इम्पीरियल मानक of नेपोलियन  I
Napoleon  बोनापार्ट ( , ; 15 अगस्त 1769 – 5 may 1821 ) थी a फ्रेंच सैन्य और राजनैतिक नेता  who rose to prominence during the latter stages of the French Revolution and its associated wars in Europe .
As Napoleon I , he was  सम्राट of the फ्रेंच इससे 1804 to 1815  .
His legal reform , the Napoleonic Code , has been a  प्रमुख influence on अनेक सिविल विधि jurisdictions विश्वव्यापी , लकिन he is बेहतरीन remembered लिये उसके भूमिका in the युद्धों led विरूद्ध  France by a series of coalitions , the so-called Napoleonic Wars .
He  स्थापित आधिपत्य over सबसे of महाद्वीपीय यूरोपीय और sought to स्प्रेड the आदर्शों of the फ्रेंच  Revolution , while consolidating an imperial monarchy which restored aspects of the deposed Ancien Régime .
Due to his success in these wars , often against  numerically श्रेष्ठ दुश्मनों , he is generally regarded as एक of the महानतम सैन्य  commanders of all time , and his campaigns are studied at military academies worldwide .
Napoleon was born at Ajaccio in Corsica in a family of  प्रतिष्ठित इतालवी ancestry जिससे था  settled Corsica in the 16th century .
He trained as  an तोपखाने अधिकारी in मेनलैंड  France .
He rose to prominence under the French First  गणतंत्र और led कामयाब अभियान विरूद्ध the  First and Second Coalitions arrayed against France .
He led a successful  आक्रमण of the इतालवी  peninsula .
In 1799 , he staged a coup d'état and installed himself as First Consul ; five years later  the फ्रेंच सीनेट proclaimed उसे सम्राट , following a plebiscite in उसके  favour .
In the first decade of the 19th century , the French Empire under Napoleon engaged in a  श्रेणी of conflicts—the napoleonic युद्धों —that शामिल प्रत्येक प्रमुख  European power .
After a streak of victories , France secured a dominant position in continental Europe , and Napoleon maintained the French sphere of influence through the formation of  extensive alliances और the नियुक्ति of मित्रों और परिवार सदस्यों to नियम अन्य यूरोपीय देशों  as French client states .
The Peninsular War and 1812 French  आक्रमण of रूस चिह्नित turning अंक in नेपोलियन  's fortunes .
His Grande  armée थी badly क्षतिग्रस्त in the अभियान और never  fully recovered .
In 1813 , the  छठे गठबन्धन पराजित उसके शक्तियां at लिपजिग ; the following साल the  Coalition invaded France , forced Napoleon to abdicate and exiled him to the island of Elba .
Less than a year later , he escaped Elba and returned to power , but  थी पराजित at the बैटल of वाटरलू  in June 1815 .
नेपोलियन खर्च the पिछला छह सालो of उसके जीवन  in confinement by the British on the island of Saint Helena .
An autopsy concluded he died of stomach cancer , but there has been some debate  परिचय the कारण of उसके मौत , as कुछ विद्वानों have speculated कि he थी a शिकार  of arsenic poisoning .
This is a  कालानुक्रमिक लिस्टिंग of the संयुक्त राज्य सीनेटरों  from Pennsylvania .
संयुक्त राज्य सीनेटरों हैं popularly निर्वाचित  , for a six-year term , beginning January 3 .
Elections are  आयोजित the पहला मंगलवार बाद  November 1 .
Before 1914 , they were chosen by the  पेन्सिलवेनिया सामान्य सभा , और पहले 1935 , उनके  terms began March 4 .
The South  अफ़्रीकी नेशनल रग्बी संघ टोली ( ज्ञात as the springboks ) represents  South Africa in rugby union .
They  compete in the सालाना रग्बी चैंपियनशिप , साथ  with southern-hemisphere counterparts Argentina , Australia and New Zealand .
They have won this championship on three  अवसरों in सोलह  years .
They are currently ranked second in the world  by the अंतरराष्ट्रीय रग्बी फलक , और यहूद नामित 2008 संसार टोली of the साल at  the Laureus World Sports Awards .
Although South Africa was instrumental in the creation of the Rugby World Cup competition , the Springboks did  नहीं compete in the पहला दो संसार cups in 1987 और 1991 क्युकी of anti-apartheid sporting boycotts of दक्षिण  Africa .
The team made its World Cup debut  in 1995 , जब the newly लोकतांत्रिक दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी  hosted the tournament .
The Springboks then  पराजित the सब अश्वेतों 15–12 in the फाइनल , जिससे is अभी remembered as एक of the महानतम पल in दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी 's sporting  history , and a watershed moment in the post-Apartheid nation-building process .
South  अफ़्रीकी regained उनके शीर्षक as champions 12 सालो  later , when they defeated England 15–6 in the 2007 final .
As a result of the 2007 World Cup tournament the Springboks were promoted to  पहला प्लेस in the आईआरबी संसार rankings , a स्थिति वे आयोजित जबतक  July the following year when New Zealand regained the top spot .
The Springboks play in green and gold  jerseys , और उनके प्रतीक हैं the springbok  and the Protea .
The side  रै महरूम playing अंतरराष्ट्रीय रग्बी चूंकि 1891 , जब a अंग्रेजों  Isles side toured the nation , playing South Africa in their first Test on 30 July .
South Africa was coached by Jake White  , जो led the boks to the 2007 संसार कप शीर्षक  , announcing his resignation effectively from the end of 2007 .
His replacement 's ( Peter de  villiers ) अनुबंध समाप्त in 2011 , following a 11–9 शिकस्त to ऑस्ट्रेलिया in the रग्बी संसार  Cup quarter-final , who then stated he would not be signing a new deal .
The previous captain was John Smit , who before he  रिटायर्ड in 2011 निभाई वेश्या लिये सबसे of उसके करियर , हालांकि  he has also been a prop , mainly in 2008 and 2009 .
Due to Smit being  अनुपलब्ध लिये the नवम्बर 2010 परीक्षण बाद सर्जरी , ताला विक्टर matfield took  Smit 's place as captain for that tour .
The current  कप्तान is जां de  Villiers .
The  बैटल of gettysburg ( , साथ an ध्वनि  ) , was fought July 1–3 , 1863 , in and around the town of Gettysburg , Pennsylvania .
It was the battle with the  largest क्रमांक of हताहत in the अमरीकी सिविल युद्ध और is प्रायः वर्णित  as the war 's turning point .
Union Maj. Gen. George Gordon Meade 's Army of the Potomac defeated  हमले by confederate gen. रॉबर्ट E. ली 's फौज of उत्तरी वर्जिनिया , समाप्ति ली 's आक्रमण  of the North .
After his success at Chancellorsville in Virginia in May  1863 , ली led उसके फौज through the shenandoah घाटी to शुरू उसके दूसरी  invasion of the North—the Gettysburg Campaign .
With his army in high spirits , Lee intended to shift the focus of the summer campaign from war-ravaged northern Virginia  और hoped to influence उत्तरी राजनेता to दे up उनके अभियोजन of the युद्ध  by penetrating as far as Harrisburg , Pennsylvania , or even Philadelphia .
Prodded by President Abraham Lincoln , Maj. Gen. Joseph Hooker moved his  फौज in pursuit , लकिन थी सुकून बस तीन दिनों पहले the बैटल और  replaced by Meade .
Elements of the two armies initially collided at Gettysburg on July 1 , 1863 , as Lee urgently concentrated his forces there , his  उद्देश्य होने to engage the संघ फौज और नष्ट it .
Low ridges to  the उत्तरपश्चिम of कस्बा यहूद defended initially by a संघ प्यादे प्रभाग अंतर्गत  Brig . Gen. John Buford , and soon reinforced with two corps of Union infantry .
However , two large Confederate corps assaulted them from the  उत्तरपश्चिम और उत्तर , collapsing the hastily विकसित संघ लाइनों , sending the defenders  retreating through the streets of town to the hills just to the south .
on the दूसरी दिन of बैटल , सबसे of दोनो  armies had assembled .
the संघ लकीर थी रखी आउट  in a defensive formation resembling a fishhook .
In the late afternoon of July 2 , Lee launched a heavy assault on the Union left flank  , और fierce लड़ raged at छोटी गोलाकार शीर्ष , the wheatfield , शैतान 's डेन  , and the Peach Orchard .
On the Union right , demonstrations  escalated into full-scale assaults on culp 's हिल और  Cemetery Hill .
All across  the रणभूमि , despite  significant losses , the Union defenders held their lines .
On the third  दिन of बैटल , जुलाई 3 , लड़ resumed on culp 's हिल , और प्यादे लड़ाइयों raged to the ईस्ट  and south , but the main event was a dramatic infantry assault by 12,500 Confederates against the center of the Union line on Cemetery Ridge , known as Pickett 's Charge .
The charge was repulsed by  संघ राइफल और तोपखाने आग , at ग्रेट  losses to the Confederate army .
Lee led his  फौज on a torturous रिट्रीट  back to Virginia .
Between 46,000 and 51,000  सैनिको इससे दोनो सेना  were casualties in the three-day battle .
That November , President Lincoln used the  समर्पण रस्म लिये the gettysburg नेशनल कब्रिस्तान to सम्मान the गिरे  Union soldiers and redefine the purpose of the war in his historic Gettysburg Address .
An academic discipline , or field of study , is  a शाखा of ज्ञान कि is सिखाया और शोधकार्य at the कॉलेज  or university level .
Disciplines are defined ( in part ) ,  और पहचाना by the अकादमिक जर्नल्स in जिससे शोध  is published , and the learned societies and academic departments or faculties to which their practitioners belong .
However , there exists no formal  मापदण्ड लिये जब शैक्षणिक कार्यक्रम और scholarly  journals form an academic discipline .
A huge difference exists between , on the one hand , well established disciplines that exist in almost all universities all over the world ,  have a long इतिहास , और have a खूब स्थापित नियत of जर्नल्स और सम्मेलनों , और , on the अन्य हाथ , सुझाव लिये नई फ़ील्ड समर्थित तभी by few विश्वविद्यालयों  and publications .
Fields of study usually have several  sub-disciplines or शाखाओं , और the distinguishing लाइनों between ये हैं प्रायः दोनो मनमानी  and ambiguous .
PHP is a server-side scripting language designed for web development but  भी प्रयुक्त as a general-purpose प्रोग्रामिंग  language .
PHP is now installed on more  than 244 लाख वेबसाइटों और 2.1 लाख  web servers .
Originally created by Rasmus Lerdorf in 1995 , the reference  क्रियान्वयन of पीएचपी is अभी उत्पादित by the  PHP Group .
While PHP originally stood for  निजी घर पेज , it अभी स्टैंड लिये पीएचपी :  Hypertext Preprocessor , a recursive acronym .
PHP  कोड is interpreted by a वेब सर्वर साथ a पीएचपी प्रोसेसर मोड्यूल जिससे generates the  resulting web page : PHP commands can be embedded directly into an HTML source document rather than calling an external file to process data .
It has also evolved to include a  command-line इंटरफ़ेस काबिलियत और can be प्रयुक्त in स्टैंडअलोन  graphical applications .
PHP is free  तन्त्र released अंतर्गत the पीएचपी अनुज्ञा , जिससे is असंगत साथ the  GNU General Public License ( GPL ) due to restrictions on the usage of the term PHP .
PHP can be deployed on most web servers and also as a  स्टैंडअलोन शेल on लगभग प्रत्येक ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली और मंच , फ़्री  of charge .
John Fitzgerald `` Jack '' Kennedy ( May  29 , 1917 – नवम्बर 22 , 1963 ) , प्रायः referred to by  his initials JFK , was the 35th President of the United States , serving from 1961 until his death in 1963 .
After military service as commander of the Motor  torpedo नौकाएँ pt-109 और pt-59 दौरान संसार युद्ध ii in the दक्षिण प्रशांत , कैनेडी  represented Massachusetts ' 11th congressional district in the U.S. House of Representatives from 1947 to 1953 as a Democrat .
Thereafter ,  he परोसा in the u.S. सीनेट इससे 1953  until 1960 .
Kennedy defeated Vice President and Republican  प्रत्याशी रिचर्ड निक्सन in the 1960 u.S. अध्यक्षीय चुनाव  .
At 43 years of age , he is the youngest to  have महरूम निर्वाचित to the दफ्तर , the second-youngest अध्यक्ष ( बाद थियोडोर  Roosevelt ) , and the first person born in the 20th century to serve as president .
A Catholic , Kennedy is the only  non- प्रोटोस्टेंट अध्यक्ष , और is the तभी अध्यक्ष  to have won a Pulitzer Prize .
Events during his presidency included the Bay of Pigs Invasion , the Cuban Missile Crisis , the building of the Berlin Wall , the Space Race , the  african-american सिविल अधिकारों गति , और जल्दी चरण of the वियतनाम युद्ध  .
Therein , Kennedy increased the number of  सैन्य advisers , खास आपरेशन शक्तियां , और helicopters  in an effort to curb the spread of communism in South East Asia .
the कैनेडी प्रशासन अपनाया the नीति of the रणनीतिक  Hamlet Program which was implemented by the South Vietnamese government .
It involved certain forced relocation , village internment  , और पृथक्करण of ग्रामीण दक्षिण वियतनामी इससे the उत्तरी और दक्षिणी कम्युनिस्ट  insurgents .
Kennedy was  assassinated on नवम्बर 22 , 1963 in  Dallas , Texas .
Lee Harvey Oswald was charged with the crime , but he was shot and killed  by जोकर माणिक्य दो दिनों बाद , पहले a विचारण  could take place .
The FBI and the  वारेन आयोग officially concluded कि ओसवाल्ड  was the lone assassin .
However , the United States  हाउस चुनें कमेटी on assassinations ( hsca ) concluded कि those investigations यहूद  flawed and that Kennedy was probably assassinated as the result of a conspiracy .
However , ABC News in their investigation ,  the कैनेडी हत्या : परे षड्यंत्र , पुष्टि the निष्कर्षों  of the Warren Commission ; having concluded Oswald acted alone .
Kennedy 's controversial Department of Defense  tfx सेनानी bomber कार्यक्रम led to a congressional छानबीन कि lasted  from 1963 to 1970 .
Since the 1960s  सूचना concerning कैनेडी 's  private life has come to light .
Details of Kennedy 's health  समस्याएं in जिससे he struggled have become  better known , especially since the 1990s .
Although initially kept secret from  the सामान्य पब्लिक , रिपोर्ट्स of कैनेडी 's  philandering have garnered much press .
Kennedy ranks highly in public  राय दरजा of u.S. राष्ट्रपतियों  .
`` Stand by Me '' is a song originally performed by Ben E. King and written by King ,  जेरी leiber , और माइक stoller , प्रेरित by the आध्यात्मिक `` रब स्टैंड by me , '' प्लस  two lines rooted in Psalms 46:2–3 .
There have been  over 400 अंकित संस्करण  of the song .
A political cartoon  इससे an 1894 पक पत्रिका by इलस्ट्रेटर s.d . ehrhart , shows a फार्म स्त्री  labeled `` Democratic Party '' sheltering from a tornado of political change .
A metaphor is a figure of speech that describes a subject by  asserting कि it is , on कुछ पाइंट of तुलना , the वही as  another otherwise unrelated object .
Metaphor is a type of  सादृश्य और is closely सम्बन्धित to अन्य rhetorical आंकड़े of वाक  that achieve their effects via association , comparison or resemblance including allegory , hyperbole , and simile .
In simpler terms ,  a रूपक compares दो वस्तुएँ or बाते  without using the words `` like '' or `` as '' .
One of the most prominent examples  of a रूपक in अंग्रेज़ी साहित्य is  the All the world 's a stage monologue from As You Like It :
All the  संसार 's a स्टैगe,
And all the men and  महिलाओं merely खिलाड़ी ;
They  have उनके exits और उनके entrances ; — विलियम शेक्सपियर  , As You Like It , 2/7
इस उद्धरण is a रूपक  because the world is not literally a stage .
By figuratively asserting that the world is a stage , Shakespeare uses the points of comparison between the  संसार और a स्टेज to convey an समझना परिचय the यांत्रिकी of the संसार और the जीवनदान of the लोगों  within it .
माउंट फुजी , इससे the thirty-six दृश्य of माउंट फुजी , रंग  woodcut by Katsushika Hokusai
rembrandt वैन rijn  , Self-portrait , etching , c.1630
Francisco Goya , There  is no एक to सहायता उन्हें , आपदाओं  of War series , aquatint c.1810
फेलिक्स vallotton , la raison probante ( the cogent कारण  ) , woodcut from the series Intimités , 1898
Printmaking is the process of making  artworks by मुद्रण , सामान्यतः on पेपर .
Printmaking normally covers only the  प्रक्रम of बनाना prints साथ an तत्व of मौलिकता , बल्कि than  just being a photographic reproduction of a painting .
Except in the case of monotyping , the process  is सक्षम of producing multiples of the वही टुकड़ा , जिससे is पुकारा a  print .
Each print produced is  नहीं माना a `` नक़ल '' लकिन बल्कि is माना  an `` original '' .
This is because typically each print varies to an extent due to variables intrinsic to the printmaking process , and also because the  imagery of a छपाई is typically नहीं बस a जनन of another कार्य लकिन बल्कि is प्रायः a अद्वितीय चित्र designed इससे the प्रारंभ to be expressed in a particular  printmaking technique .
A print may be  ज्ञात as  an impression .
Printmaking ( other than monotyping ) is not chosen only for its ability to produce multiple impressions , but  बल्कि लिये the अद्वितीय qualities कि प्रत्येक of the printmaking प्रक्रियाओं lends itself to .
Prints are created by transferring  स्याही इससे a मेट्रिक्स or through a prepared  screen to a sheet of paper or other material .
Common types of matrices include :  मेटल प्लेटों , प्रायः तांबे or जस्ता , or पॉलिमर प्लेटों लिये नक्काशी or etching ; स्टोन , एल्यूमिनियम ,  or polymer for lithography ; blocks of wood for woodcuts and wood engravings ; and linoleum for linocuts .
Screens made of  रेशा or सिंथेटिक fabrics हैं प्रयुक्त  for the screenprinting process .
Other types of  मेट्रिक्स substrates और सम्बन्धित प्रक्रियाओं हैं discussed  below .
अनेक impressions मुद्रित इससे the  same matrix form an edition .
Since the late 19th century , artists have generally signed  व्यक्तिगत impressions इससे an संस्करण और प्रायः क्रमांक the impressions to रूप a  limited edition .
Prints  may भी be मुद्रित in किताब रूप ,  such as illustrated books or artist 's books .
Il Divo is an English multinational  operatic पॉप गायन समूह निर्मित by म्यूज़िक  manager , executive , and reality TV star Simon Cowell .
Formed in the  संयुक्त किंगडम , वे हैं भी हस्ताक्षरित  to Cowell 's record label , Syco Music .
Il Divo is a group of four male singers : French pop singer  सेबेस्तियन izambard , स्पेनी baritone कार्लोस marín , अमरीकी टेनर दाउद मिलर , और स्विस  tenor Urs Bühler .
To date , they have sold  अधिक than 26 लाख एल्बम  worldwide .
Su-15 , one of the  प्रिंसिपल सोवियत एयर रक्षा  interceptors in the 1970s and 1980s
An  interceptor वायुयान ( or बस interceptor ) is a प्रकार of सेनानी वायुयान designed specifically to prevent  missions of enemy aircraft , particularly bombers and reconnaissance aircraft , and destroy them , relying usually on great speed and powerful armament .
Being used since the First World War , after the late 1960s , interceptors became less important due to shifting  इससे बमवर्षक to इंटरकांटिनेंटल बैलिस्टिक  missiles ( ICBMs ) for nuclear warfare .
A Vietnamese American (  ) is an अमरीकी of वियतनामी  descent .
They make up  परिचय हाफ of सब विदेशी वियतनामी ( người việt hải  Ngoại ) and are the fourth-largest Asian American group .
Mass Vietnamese  आव्रजन to the संयुक्त राज्य प्रारंभ बाद 1975  , after the end of the Vietnam War .
Early immigrants  यहूद शरणार्थी नाव लोगों fleeing  persecution or poverty .
मजबूर to भागो इससे उनके मातृभूमि और प्रायः thrust into ग़रीब शहरी पड़ोस  , these newcomers have nevertheless managed to establish strong communities in a short amount of time .
More than sixty percent of Vietnamese Americans reside  in the राज्य of कैलिफ़ोर्निया , टेक्सास , वॉशिंगटन , फ्लोरिडा  , and Virginia .
Front page of the U.S.  हथियारबंद शक्तियां समाचारपत्र , सितारों  and Stripes , 2 May 1945
Adolf Hitler  वचनबद्ध आत्महत्या by gunshot on 30 अप्रैल 1945  in his Führerbunker in Berlin .
His wife Eva ( née Braun )  वचनबद्ध आत्महत्या साथ उसे  by ingesting cyanide .
That afternoon , in accordance with Hitler 's prior instructions , their remains were carried up  the सीढ़ियाँ through the बंकर 's आपात निकास , doused in पेट्रोल और नियत alight in the reich  Chancellery garden outside the bunker .
The Soviet archives record that their burnt remains were  बरामद और interred in successive स्थितियाँ जबतक 1970  when they were again exhumed , cremated and the ashes scattered .
Accounts differ as to the cause of death ; one that he died by poison  तभी और another कि he died by a self-inflicted gunshot , जबकि  biting down on a cyanide capsule .
समकालीन इतिहासकारों have अस्वीकृत ये खाते as होने either  Soviet propaganda or an attempted compromise in order to reconcile the different conclusions .
One eye-witness  अंकित कि the देह दिखाया लक्षण of having  been shot through the mouth , but this has been proven unlikely .
There is also  विवाद regarding  the authenticity of skull and jaw fragments which were recovered .
In  2009 , डीएनए परीक्षण यहूद performed on  a skull Soviet officials had long believed to be Hitler 's .
The tests revealed that the skull  थी दरअसल कि of a स्त्री कम than  40 years old .
स्थान of मिसौरी
The alcohol laws of Missouri are among the least restrictive and  सबसे lax और permissive in the संयुक्त राज्य  .
Missouri is  ज्ञात throughout the मिडवेस्ट लिये इसके largely laissez-faire दृष्टिकोण to दारू विनियमन , in शार्प कंट्रास्ट to the  very strict alcohol laws of some of its neighbors , like Kansas and Oklahoma .
Necrotizing fasciitis ( or ) or NF , commonly  ज्ञात as flesh-eating बीमारी or flesh-eating  bacteria syndrome , is a rare infection of the deeper layers of skin and subcutaneous tissues , easily spreading across the fascial plane within the subcutaneous tissue .
Necrotizing fasciitis is quickly  progressing , having वृहद रिस्क of विकासशील in the immunocompromised  due to conditions like diabetes , cancer , etc .
It is a severe disease of sudden onset and is usually  treated तत्काल साथ ऊँची doses of intravenous एंटीबायोटिक  .
Type I describes a  polymicrobial संक्रमण , whereas प्रकार ii describes a  monomicrobial infection .
Many types of bacteria can cause necrotizing fasciitis ( e.g. , Group A streptococcus ( Streptococcus pyogenes ) , Staphylococcus aureus , Clostridium  perfringens , bacteroides fragilis , aeromonas  hydrophila ) .
Such infections are more likely to  occur in लोगों साथ compromised  immune systems .
Historically ,  समूह a streptococcus बना up  most cases of Type II infections .
However , since as early as 2001 , another serious form of  monomicrobial necrotizing fasciitis रै महरूम observed साथ increasing आवृत्ति  , caused by methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus ( MRSA ) .
Some published case reports have implied a possible link between use of non-steroidal  anti-inflammatory दवाएँ और nf , हालांकि the प्रमाण of the कड़ी थी कहा to be कमजोर क्युकी of a छोटी क्रमांक of मामला मरीजों और it थी unclear  whether the drugs just masked the symptoms of a secondary infection or were a cause per se .
World War II ( WWII or WW2  ) , भी ज्ञात as the दूसरी संसार युद्ध , थी a वैश्विक युद्ध  that lasted from 1939 to 1945 .
It involved the vast majority of the world 's nations  —including सब of the ग्रेट शक्तियां —eventually forming  two opposing military alliances : the Allies and the Axis .
It was the most  फैली युद्ध in इतिहास , साथ अधिक than 100 लाख  people serving in military units from over 30 different countries .
In a state of `` total war `` , the major participants placed their entire economic , industrial , and scientific capabilities at  the सेवा of the युद्ध प्रयत्न , erasing the भेद between civilian और सैन्य  resources .
Marked by mass deaths of civilians , including the Holocaust and the only use of nuclear weapons in  warfare , it resulted in 50 लाख to over 75 लाख fatalities  .
ये मौतों मेक संसार  War II by far the deadliest conflict in human history .
The Empire of Japan aimed to dominate East Asia and  थी already at युद्ध साथ the गणतंत्र of चीन in 1937 , लकिन the संसार युद्ध is generally कहा to have begun on  1 September 1939 with the invasion of Poland by Germany and subsequent declarations of war on Germany by France and Britain .
From late 1939 to early 1941 , in a series of campaigns and treaties ,  जर्मनी formed the अक्ष गठबंधन साथ इटली , conquering or subduing much of  continental Europe .
Following the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact , Germany and  the सोवियत संघ partitioned और annexed territories  between themselves of their European neighbours , including Poland .
The United Kingdom and the other members of the British Commonwealth were the only major  अलाइड शक्तियां continuing the लड़ो विरूद्ध the अक्ष , साथ लड़ाइयों लेने प्लेस in उत्तर अफ़्रीकी as खूब as the long-running  Battle of the Atlantic .
In June 1941 , the European Axis launched an invasion of the Soviet Union , giving a start to the largest land  थिएटर of युद्ध in इतिहास , जिससे tied bas the प्रमुख भाग of the अक्ष ' सैन्य  forces for the rest of the war .
In December 1941 , Japan  joined the अक्ष , attacked the संयुक्त राज्य और यूरोपीय territories in the प्रशांत समंदर  , and quickly conquered much of the Western Pacific .
The Axis advance was  रोका in 1942 , बाद जापानी खोया a श्रेणी of नवल लड़ाइयों और यूरोपीय  Axis troops were defeated in North Africa and , decisively , at Stalingrad .
In  1943 , साथ a श्रेणी of जर्मनी defeats in पूर्वी यूरोपीय , the अलाइड आक्रमण of इटली , और अमरीकी victories in the  Pacific , the Axis lost the initiative and undertook strategic retreat on all fronts .
In 1944 , the Western Allies invaded France ,  जबकि the सोवियत संघ regained सब of इसके territorial  losses and invaded Germany and its allies .
During  1944 और 1945 the संयुक्त राज्य पराजित  the Japanese Navy and captured key Western Pacific islands .
The war in Europe ended  साथ the कैप्चर of बर्लिन by सोवियत और पॉलिश सैनिकों और the subsequent  German unconditional surrender on 8 May 1945 .
Following the Potsdam Declaration  by the allies on 26 जुलाई 1945 , the संयुक्त राज्य dropped परमाणु  bombs on the Japanese cities of Hiroshima on 6 August , and Nagasaki on 9 August .
With an invasion of the Japanese archipelago imminent , and the Soviet Union having declared war on Japan by invading Manchuria , Japan surrendered on 15 August  1945 , समाप्ति the युद्ध in एशिया और cementing the कुल विजय of the allies over the अक्ष  .
World War II altered the political alignment and  सोशल ढांचा of the  world .
The United Nations ( UN ) was  स्थापित to फोस्टर अंतरराष्ट्रीय सहयोग और prevent भविष्य  conflicts .
The great powers that were the victors of the war—the United States , the Soviet Union , China , the United Kingdom ,  और france—became the स्थाई सदस्यों of the संयुक्त राष्ट्र सुरक्षा परिषद  .
The  सोवियत संघ और the संयुक्त राज्य  emerged as rival superpowers , setting the stage for the Cold War , which lasted for the next 46 years .
meanwhile , the influence of यूरोपीय ग्रेट शक्तियां प्रारंभ to मनाही  , while the decolonisation of Asia and Africa began .
Most countries whose industries had  महरूम क्षतिग्रस्त स्थानांतरित towards  economic recovery .
Political integration , especially in Europe , emerged as an effort to stabilise  postwar संबंध और लड़ो अधिक effectively in the ठंडा युद्ध  .
A limited liability company ( LLC ) is  a लचीली रूप of एंटरप्राइज़ कि मिश्रणों तत्व of साझेदारी  and corporate structures .
Note than an LLC is not a corporation , and  कॉलिंग an llc a निगम is technically गलत .
An LLC is a  विधिक रूप of कम्पनी कि provides सीमित देयता  to its owners in the vast majority of United States jurisdictions .
LLCs do not need  to be व्यवस्थित लिये लाभ  .
पाँच k-cups
The inside of a used K-Cup , with the top  foil और the प्रयुक्त कॉफी grounds removed  .
This shows  the फिल्टर अंदर the  K-Cup .
K-Cup portion packs are used with Keurig or other  सिंगल कप brewing प्रणालियों to काढ़ा a कप of कॉफी  , tea , or hot chocolate .
Each K-Cup is a  प्लास्टिक संग्राहक साथ a कॉफी फिल्टर अंदर  .
Ground coffee beans are packed in  the k-cup और sealed air-tight साथ  a combination plastic and foil lid .
When the K-Cup is placed in a Keurig brewer , the brewer punctures the  foil ढक्कन और the नीचे of the k-cup और शक्तियां hot जल अंतर्गत दबाव through the k-cup और  into a mug .
Keurig licenses its K-Cup technology to coffee roasters and tea makers such as Green Mountain Coffee Roasters  , diedrich/ ग्लोरिया जीन्स , टिमोथी 's संसार कॉफी , वैन houtte , हिरण कॉफी , celestial seasonings , bigelow चाय कम्पनी , twinings , टली 's , कॉफी लोगों  and Newman 's Own .
Keurig 's  patents on the असली k-cup  design expired in September 2012 .
keurig holds at तनिक एक अतिरिक्त , still-active us पेटेंट और another पेटेंट अनुप्रयोग ,  detailing improvements that have subsequently been incorporated in their K-Cup design .
Electa Pocket Chronograph ( ca . 1890s ) manufactured by  the gallet देखें कम्पनी in la chaux-de-fonds ,  Switzerland .
Gallet MultiChron Astronomic ( ca . 1959 ) —complex mechanical chronograph with 12 hour recoding  सामर्थ्य , स्वचालित दिन , तिथि , माह , और चंद्रमा phase  display
a आधुनिक seiko क्वार्ट्ज wristwatch using the chronograph  function ( movement 7T92 ) .
Citizen Atessa Eco-Drive  atv53-3023 analog-digital chronograph साथ 4 क्षेत्रफल रेडियो नियंत्रित  reception ( North America , Europe , China , Japan ) .
A  chronograph is a विशिष्ट प्रकार of देखें  that is used as a stopwatch combined with a display watch .
A basic chronograph has an independent  स्वीप दूसरी हाथ ; it can be प्रारंभ , रोका , और लौटे to शून्य by successive  pressure on the stem .
Louis  moinet invented the chronograph  in 1816
Conventional PCI ( PCI is an initialism formed from Peripheral Component Interconnect , part of the PCI  लोकल बस मानक और प्रायः shortened to बस पीसीआई ) is a लोकल कंप्यूटर बस लिये  attaching hardware devices in a computer .
The PCI bus supports the functions found on a processor bus ,  लकिन in a मानकीकृत स्वरूप कि is स्वतंत्र of कोई particular  processor .
Devices connected to the bus appear to the processor to be connected directly  to the प्रोसेसर बस , और हैं आबंटित पता in the प्रोसेसर 's पता  space .
Attached devices can take  either the रूप of an एकीकृत सर्किट fitted onto the मदरबोर्ड itself ,  called a planar device in the PCI specification , or an expansion card that fits into a slot .
The PCI Local Bus was  पहला implemented in ibm pc compatibles , जहाँ it विस्थापित  the combination of ISA plus one VESA Local Bus as the bus configuration .
It has subsequently  महरूम अपनाया लिये अन्य  computer types .
PCI and PCI-X are being replaced by PCI Express , but , most motherboards are  स्टिल बना साथ एक or अधिक पीसीआई स्लॉट , जिससे हैं sufficient लिये अनेक उपयोग  .
The PCI specification covers the physical size of the bus ( including the  आकार और अंतरण of the सर्किट फलक किनारे विद्युत सम्पर्क ) , विद्युत  characteristics , bus timing , and protocols .
the specification can be खरीदा  from the PCI Special Interest Group ( PCI-SIG ) .
Typical PCI cards used in PCs include :  संजाल ताश , ध्वनि ताश , modems , अतिरिक्त पोर्ट ऐसे as usb or सीरियल  , TV tuner cards and disk controllers .
PCI video cards replaced ISA and VESA cards , until growing  बैंडविड्थ आवश्यकताएँ outgrew the सामर्थ्य of पीसीआई ; the पसन्दीदा  interface for video cards became AGP , and then PCI Express .
PCI video cards remain available for use with old PCs without  अगप or पीसीआई एक्स्प्रेस स्लॉट  .
Many devices previously provided on PCI expansion cards are now commonly  एकीकृत onto motherboards or उपलब्धियाँ in सार्वभौमिक सीरियल  bus and PCI Express versions .
Michael Whitaker Smith ( born October 7 , 1957 ) is an American contemporary Christian musician , who has  charted primarily in the समकालीन ईसाई और occasionally  in the mainstream charts .
His biggest success in mainstream music was in  1991 जब `` प्लेस in इस संसार '' hit no . 6 on the  Billboard Hot 100 .
स्मिथ is a three-time ग्रैमी  Award winner , and has earned 40 Dove Awards .
Over the course of his career ,  he बेची अधिक than 13 लाख एल्बम और अंकित 29 no . 1 hit गीतों ,  fourteen gold albums , and five platinum albums .
Smith is an American Music Award recipient ; he was  भी नामित एक of लोगों पत्रिका  's `` Most Beautiful People '' .
An American poster  इससे the संसार युद्ध ii -era कि थी प्रयुक्त to inform लोगों परिचय कया  they should do if they suspect sabotage .
तोड़फोड़ is a deliberate कार्रवाई aimed  at weakening another entity through subversion , obstruction , disruption , or destruction .
In a workplace setting , sabotage is the  सचेत वापसी of दक्षता generally निर्देशित at causing कुछ बदलें in कार्यस्थल शर्तें  .
One  जो engages in तोड़फोड़  is a saboteur .
As a rule , saboteurs  कोशिश to छिपाते उनके पहचान क्युकी of the consequences of  their actions .
For example , whereas an environmental pressure group might be happy to be identified  साथ an अधिनियम of तोड़फोड़ , it होता नहीं want the व्यक्तिगत  identities of the perpetrators known .
Patrick Henry College ( PHC ) is a private , independent college with an Evangelical Christian basis that  focuses on शिक्षण शास्त्रीय उदार कला और सरकारी , स्तिथ in purcellville  , Virginia , United States .
Patrick Henry is known for its  रूढ़िवादी धर्मान्तरण ईसाई  focus .
As of  अप्रैल 17 , 2007 , the कॉलेज थी accredited by the transnational संघ of ईसाई  Colleges and Schools , a national faith-related accrediting organization recognized by the Department of Education and the Council for Higher Education Accreditation .
The school was founded with the help of the Home  स्कूल विधिक रक्षा संघ , और अभी serves as the मुख्यालय लिये the संगठन , साथ  which it is still closely connected .
The history of  टेलीविज़न comprises the कार्य of numerous इंजीनियर्स और आविष्कारक in  several countries over many decades .
the earliest प्रस्ताव थी in 1908 , in a पेपर by a . A. campbell-swinton  and postulated the use of cathode rays .
The first practical demonstrations of television , however  , यहूद विकसित using electromechanical  methods to scan , transmit , and reproduce an image .
As electronic camera and  प्रदर्शक tubes यहूद perfected , electromechanical टेलीविज़न दिया रास्ता to all-electronic  systems in nearly all applications .
L'Idéal Cinéma - Jacques  tati at aniche खोली नवम्बर 23rd 1905 ; the  oldest still-active movie theater in the world
A cinema in  ऑस्ट्रेलिया
A typical multiplex ( AMC Promenade  16 in वुडलैंड पहाड़ियाँ , लॉस  Angeles , U.S. )
A  फिल्म थिएटर ( भी पुकारा a सिनेमा , फिल्म हाउस , फिल्मी हाउस  , film theater or picture house ) is a venue , usually a building , for viewing films .
Most  लकिन नहीं सब फिल्म थिएटर हैं वाणिज्यिक परिचालन केटरिंग  to the general public , who attend by purchasing a ticket .
The movie is projected with a  फिल्म प्रोजेक्टर onto a विशाल प्रक्षेप स्क्रीन at the सामने  of the auditorium .
Most movie theaters are now equipped for digital cinema  प्रक्षेप , निकालना the need to बनाएँ और हस्तांतरण a शारीरिक फिल्मी छपाई  .
Southern California  नॉर्टन मालिक 's क्लबों on कैलिफ़ोर्निया राज्य रूट  41 , near Creston .
A motorcycle  क्लबों is a समूह of individuals  whose primary interest and activities involve motorcycles .
Lyme disease , Lyme borreliosis is an infectious  बीमारी caused by at तनिक तीन प्रजाति of जीवाणु belonging  to the genus Borrelia .
Borrelia burgdorferi sensu stricto is the main cause of Lyme disease in North America ,  whereas borrelia afzelii और borrelia garinii कारण सबसे  European cases .
The disease is named after the towns of Lyme and  बूढ़ा lyme , कनेक्टिकट , यूएसए , जहाँ a क्रमांक of मामले  were identified in 1975 .
Although Allen Steere realized that Lyme disease was a tick-borne disease in 1978 , the cause of the disease remained a  रहस्य जबतक 1981 , जब B. burgdorferi थी पहचाना by विली  Burgdorfer .
Lyme  बीमारी is the सबसे आम tick-borne  disease in the Northern Hemisphere .
Borrelia is transmitted  to इंसानो by the काटना of संक्रमित ticks  belonging to a few species of the genus Ixodes ( `` hard ticks '' ) .
Early symptoms may include fever  , सिरदर्द , थकान , अवसाद , और a characteristic गोलाकार  skin rash called erythema migrans ( EM ) .
Left untreated ,  बाद लक्षण may involve the joints , दिल ,  and central nervous system .
In most cases , the infection  और इसके लक्षण हैं eliminated by एंटीबायोटिक , विशेषकर if the बीमारी is treated  early .
Delayed or  अपर्याप्त उपचार can सीसे to अधिक गंभीर लक्षण , जिससे can be disabling  and difficult to treat .
Penises of minke whales on display at the Icelandic  phallological संग्रहालय
Penis ( plural penises or penes ) is a general term  लिये the अंगों साथ जिससे पुरूष और उभयलिंगी पशु introduce शुक्राणु  into receptive females during copulation .
Such organs occur in many  पशु , दोनो vertebrate और invertebrate , लकिन males do नहीं भालू a शिश्न in प्रत्येक एनिमल प्रजाति , और in those प्रजाति  in which the male does bear a so-called penis , the penes in the various species are not necessarily homologous .
For example , the penis of a mammal is at  सबसे analogous to the शिश्न of a पुरूष कीट or  barnacle .
The term penis applies to many  reproductive intromittent अंगों , लकिन नहीं to सब ; लिये उदाहरण the intromittent अंग of सबसे cephalopoda  is the hectocotylus , a specialised arm , and male spiders use their pedipalps .
In most species  of पशु in जिससे वहीँ is an अंग कि might reasonably be वर्णित as a शिश्न , it रै no प्रमुख फलन  other than intromission , or at least conveying the sperm to the female , but in the placental mammals the penis bears the distal part of the urethra , which discharges both urine during urination and semen during copulation as the occasion requires .
Artists and  रंगमंडल ( a & r ) is the प्रभाग of a रिकार्ड लेबल or म्यूज़िक प्रकाशन कम्पनी  that is responsible for talent scouting and overseeing the artistic development of recording artists and/or songwriters .
It also acts as a liaison between artists and the record label or publishing company ;  प्रत्येक कार्यकलाप involving कलाकारों to the पाइंट of एल्बम रिलीज is generally माना अंतर्गत the purview of , और  responsibility of , A & R .
A furlong is a measure of distance in imperial units and  u.S. प्रथागत इकाई बराबर to one-eighth of a मील , समतुल्य  to 220 yards , 660 feet , 40 rods , or 10 chains .
The exact value of the  furlong varies थोड़ा among english-speaking  countries .
Five furlongs are approximately  1 किलोमीटर ( 1.0058 km is a करीब सन्निकटन  ) .
Since the original definition of the metre was one-quarter of one ten-millionth of the circumference of the Earth ( along the great circle coincident with the meridian of  देशांतर गुजर through पेरिस ) , the परिधि of the धरती is परिचय 40,000  km or about 200,000 furlongs .
CR2032  लिथियम बटन कोशिका बैटरी
Lithium 9 volt  , aa , & aaa आकार
Lithium batteries are  डिस्पोजेबल ( प्राथमिक ) बैटरी कि have  lithium metal or lithium compounds as an anode .
They  स्टैंड अलावा इससे अन्य बैटरी in उनके ऊँची चार्ज  density ( long life ) and high cost per unit .
Depending on the  डिज़ाइन और रासायनिक यौगिकों प्रयुक्त , लिथियम कोशिकाएं can उपज voltages इससे 1.5 v ( comparable to a zinc–carbon or  alkaline battery ) to about 3.7 V. Lithium batteries are widely used in products such as portable consumer electronic devices .
रेमंड `` रे '' चार्ल्स जोकर lamontagne ( ; born जून 18 , 1973 )  is an American singer-songwriter .
LaMontagne has released four studio albums , Trouble ,  तक the सूर्य turns ब्लैक , गपशप in  the Grain and God Willin ' & the Creek Do n't Rise .
He was born in New Hampshire and was inspired to create  म्यूज़िक बाद सुनना an  album by Stephen Stills .
Critics have  compared lamontagne 's म्यूज़िक to कि of the बैंड , वैन मॉरिसन  , Nick Drake , and Tim Buckley .
He lives  in मैसाचुसेट्स साथ उसके बीवी  and two children .
When the  हवा blows is a अनोखा  by James Patterson .
It is the  precursor to the झील  House and inspired the Maximum Ride series .
The  अनोखा is फिलहाल नियत to be adapted  into a movie .
the पिट्सबर्ग स्टीलर्स  were founded in 1933 .
Over the course of the team 's history , the team has had several logos while wearing  वस्तुतः the वही वर्दी over the सालो , साथ हल्का परिवर्तन बना to दे the वर्दी  an updated look .
The  टोली रंगों , वर्दी , और लोगो  are often ranked as being among the best in the NFL .
फेसबुक on the  Ad-tech 2010
Facebook is an online social networking  सेवा , जिनकी नाम तना इससे the colloquial नाम लिये the किताब दिए to विद्यार्थी at the प्रारंभ of  the academic year by some university administrations in the United States to help students get to know each other .
It was  संस्थापित in फ़रवरी 2004 by चिह्नित zuckerberg साथ उसके कॉलेज  roommates and fellow Harvard University students Eduardo Saverin , Andrew McCollum , Dustin Moskovitz and Chris Hughes .
The website 's membership was initially  सीमित by the संस्थापकों to हार्वर्ड विद्यार्थी , लकिन थी विस्तारित to  other colleges in the Boston area , the Ivy League , and Stanford University .
It gradually  added support लिये विद्यार्थी at विभिन्न अन्य विश्वविद्यालयों पहले खोलने  to high school students , and eventually to anyone aged 13 and over .
Facebook now allows any  उपयोक्ता जो घोषित themselves to be at तनिक 13 सालो  old to become registered users of the site .
उपयोक्ता जरूर पंजीकरण पहले using the साईट , बाद जिससे वे may बनाएँ a निजी  profile , add other users as friends , and exchange messages , including automatic notifications when they update their profile .
Additionally , users may join common-interest user groups , organized by workplace , school or college , or  अन्य विशेषताएँ , और categorize उनके मित्रों into सूचियाँ ऐसे as `` लोगों  From Work '' or `` Close Friends '' .
As of  सितंबर 2012 , फेसबुक रै over  one billion active users .
According to a May 2011 Consumer Reports survey , there are 7.5 million children under 13  साथ खाते और 5 लाख अंतर्गत 10 , violating the साईट 's शर्तें of सेवा  .
In May  2005 , accel साझेदार invested $ 12.7 लाख  in Facebook , and Jim Breyer added $ 1 million of his own money to the pot .
A January 2009 Compete.com study  क्रमित फेसबुक as the सबसे प्रयुक्त सोशल नेटवर्किंग सेवा  by worldwide monthly active users .
Entertainment Weekly included the site on its end-of-the-decade `` best-of '' list , saying , `` How on earth did we stalk our exes  , याद हमारी co-workers ' जन्मदिन , कीड़ा हमारी मित्रों , और खेल  a rousing game of Scrabulous before Facebook ? ''
Critics , such as Facebook Detox , state that  फेसबुक रै turned into a नेशनल obsession in the संयुक्त राज्य , resulting in विशाल amounts  of time lost and encouraging narcissism .
Quantcast estimates  फेसबुक रै 138.9 लाख मासिक अद्वितीय  U.S. visitors in May 2011 .
According to Social Media Today , in April 2010 an estimated 41.6  % ( 129.5 लाख ) of the u.S. जनसांख्यिकी था a फेसबुक खाता  .
Nevertheless , Facebook 's market growth  प्रारंभ to स्टाल in कुछ regions , साथ the साईट खोने 7 लाख क्रियाशील  users in the United States and Canada in May 2011 .
Facebook eventually filed for an initial public  offering on फ़रवरी 1 , 2012 , और थी headquartered in मेनलो पार्क , कैलिफ़ोर्निया  .
Facebook Inc. began selling stock to the public and  व्यापार on the नैस्डैक on may 18  , 2012 .
Erwin Johannes Eugen Rommel ( 15 November 1891 – 14 October 1944 ) , popularly known as The  मरुस्थल फॉक्स ( wüstenfuchs , ) , थी a जर्मनी फ़ील्ड मार्शल of संसार  War II .
He  अर्जित the आदर of  both his own troops and the enemies he fought .
Rommel was a highly decorated officer in World  युद्ध i और थी awarded the डालना le mérite लिये उसके कारनामे on  the Italian front .
In World War II , he further  विशिष्ट खुद as the कमांडर of the 7th panzer  Division during the 1940 invasion of France .
His leadership of German and Italian forces in the  उत्तर अफ़्रीकी अभियान स्थापित उसे as एक of the सबसे समर्थ कमांडरों of the युद्ध  , and earned him the appellation of the Desert Fox .
He is regarded  as एक of the सबसे skilled कमांडरों  of desert warfare in the conflict .
he बाद commanded the जर्मनी शक्तियां opposing  the Allied cross-channel invasion in Normandy .
His assignments  never took उसे to the पूर्वी  Front .
Rommel is regarded as  having महरूम a दयालु और  professional officer .
His Afrika Korps was never accused of war  अपराधों , और सैनिको captured दौरान उसके अफ़्रीकी अभियान यहूद reported to have महरूम treated  humanely .
आदेश to मार यहूदी सैनिको , नागरिकों  and captured commandos were ignored .
Late in the war , Rommel was linked to the  षड्यंत्र to assassinate एडोल्फ  Hitler .
Since Rommel was a national  नायिका , हिटलर desired to eliminate  him quietly .
He forced Rommel to commit suicide with a cyanide pill , in return for  आश्वासनों कि ख़बरों 's परिवार होता  not be persecuted following his death .
Stained  कांच प्रतिनिधित्व of  the Holy Spirit as a dove , c. 1660 .
The seven  उपहार of the पावन स्पिरिट is an enumeration of सात आध्यात्मिक उपहार originating साथ patristic लेखक , बाद elaborated  by five intellectual virtues and four other groups of ethical characteristics .
They are : wisdom ,  समझना , अचरज और डरते ( भय of the रब ) , counsel  , knowledge , fortitude , and piety ( reverence ) .
The Earth Day Flag , the  नवीनतम प्रस्ताव of जॉन  McConnell for a flag of Earth Day
धरती दिन is an सालाना इवेंट , मनाये on अप्रैल 22 , on जिससे कार्यक्रम हैं आयोजित विश्वव्यापी  to demonstrate support for environmental protection .
It was first celebrated  in 1970 , और is अभी समन्वित globally by the धरती  Day Network , and celebrated in more than 192 countries each year .
In 1969 at a UNESCO  सम्मेलन in सैन फ्रांसिस्को , the तिथि प्रस्तावित थी कूच 21 , 1970 , the  first day of spring in the northern hemisphere .
This day of nature 's  equipoise थी बाद मंजूर in a उदघोषणा  signed by Secretary General U Thant at the United Nations .
A month later a separate  धरती दिन थी संस्थापित by संयुक्त राज्य सीनेटर gaylord नेल्सन as an पर्यावरणीय  teach-in first held on April 22 , 1970 .
Nelson was later awarded the Presidential Medal  of स्वतंत्रता पुरस्कार in मान्यता  of his work .
While  इस अप्रैल 22 धरती दिन थी केन्द्रित on the संयुक्त राज्य , an संगठन शुभारम्भ by डेनिस  Hayes , who was the original national coordinator in 1970 , took it international in 1990 and organized events in 141 nations .
Numerous communities celebrate Earth Week , an entire week of  क्रियाएँ केन्द्रित on पर्यावरणीय मुद्दे  .
Iodine is a chemical element with  प्रतीक i और परमाणु क्रमांक  53 .
The name is  इससे यूनानी ioeidēs , अर्थ बैंगनी  or purple , due to the color of elemental iodine vapor .
Iodine  और इसके यौगिकों हैं primarily प्रयुक्त in पोषण ,  and industrially in the production of acetic acid and certain polymers .
Iodine 's relatively high atomic number , low toxicity , and  आसानी of अनुलग्नक to सशुल्क यौगिकों have बना it a भाग of अनेक x-ray  contrast materials in modern medicine .
Iodine has  तभी एक stable समस्थानिक  .
A number of iodine  radioisotopes हैं भी प्रयुक्त in चिकित्सा अनुप्रयोग  .
Iodine is found on Earth mainly as the highly water-soluble  आयोडाइड आयन , i− , जिससे concentrates it in महासागर और brine तालों  .
Like the other halogens , free iodine occurs mainly as a diatomic molecule I2 , and then only momentarily  बाद होने oxidized इससे आयोडाइड by an oxidant जैसे फ़्री  oxygen .
In the universe and on Earth ,  आयोडीन 's ऊँची परमाणु क्रमांक  makes it a relatively rare element .
However  , इसके उपस्थिति in समंदर  water has given it a role in biology .
It is  the अधिकतम अनिवार्य तत्व utilized widely by जीवन in biological कृत्यों  ( only tungsten , employed in enzymes by a few species of bacteria , is heavier ) .
Iodine 's rarity in many soils , due to initial low abundance as a crust-element  , और भी leaching of घुलनशील आयोडाइड by rainwater , रै led to अनेक कमियां समस्याएं in जमीन पशु और अंतर्देशीय इंसान populations  .
Iodine deficiency affects about two billion  लोगों और is the अग्रणी preventable कारण of बौद्धिक  disabilities .
Iodine is required by higher animals ,  जिससे उपयोग it to synthesize थायराइड हार्मोन , जिससे contain the तत्व  .
Because  of इस फलन , radioisotopes of आयोडीन हैं concentrated in  the thyroid gland along with nonradioactive iodine .
if inhaled , the radioisotope iodine-131 , जिससे रै a ऊँची परिवर्द्धन उत्पाद उपज  , concentrates in the thyroid , but is easily remedied with potassium iodide treatment .
Lobbying ( also lobby ) is the act of  attempting to influence निर्णय बना by officials in the सरकारी  , most often legislators or members of regulatory agencies .
lobbying is किया by अनेक अलग प्रकार of लोगों और व्यवस्थित समूह , सहित individuals in the  private sector , corporations , fellow legislators or government officials , or advocacy groups ( interest groups ) .
Lobbyists may be among a legislator 's constituencies , meaning  a वोटर or bloc of मतदाता भीतर उसके or उसके चुनावी ज़िला , or नहीं ; वे  may engage in lobbying as a business , or not .
Professional lobbyists are people whose  कारोबार is trying to influence विधान  on behalf of a group or individual who hires them .
Individuals and nonprofit organizations can also lobby as an act of volunteering or as a small part of their normal job ( for instance , a CEO meeting with a representative about a project important to his/her  कम्पनी , or an activist बैठक साथ his/her विधायक in an unpaid क्षमता  ) .
Governments often define and  विनियमित व्यवस्थित समूह lobbying कि रै become influential  .
The ethics and  नैतिकता of lobbying  are .
Lobbying is often spoken of with contempt , when the implication is that people with inordinate socioeconomic  शक्ति हैं corrupting the विधि ( टेढ़ी it दूर इससे निष्पक्षता ) in अनुक्रम to serve उनके अपना  conflict of interest .
But another side of lobbying is making sure that others ' interests are duly defended against  अन्य ' भ्रष्टाचार , or भी बस बनाना यकीनन कि अल्पसंख्यक रूचि हैं fairly defended  against mere tyranny of the majority .
For example , a  चिकित्सा संघ , or a व्यापार संघ of स्वास्थ्य बीमे कंपनियाँ , may लॉबी a विधानमंडल in अनुक्रम to counteract  the influence of tobacco companies , in which case the lobbying would be viewed by most people as justified ( duly defending against others ' corruption ) .
The difficulty in drawing  उद्देश्य लाइनों between जिससे lobbyists हैं `` शुभ lobbyists '' और जिससे ones हैं `` ख़राब ones '' is compounded  by the cleverness with which lobbyists or their clients can argue that their own lobbying is of the `` good '' kind .
At heart , the effort  to influence विधान is a शक्ति  struggle .
As in other forms  of शक्ति संघर्ष , ऐसे as युद्ध or विधि प्रवर्तन , motives दायरा  from to self-defense to fighting for justice , and the dividing line between predation and justice is subject to rationalization .
सनशाइन of अपना  love guitar riff
Cream were a 1960s British rock supergroup  consisting of bassist/vocalist जोकर ब्रूस , guitarist/vocalist  Eric Clapton , and drummer Ginger Baker .
Their sound was characterised by a hybrid of blues  चट्टान , मुश्किल चट्टान और साइकेडेलिक चट्टान , combining the psychedelia-themed गीत , eric क्लैप्टन 's ब्लूज़ गिटार playing और vocals , जोकर ब्रूस 's  voice and prominent bass playing and Ginger Baker 's jazz -influenced drumming .
The group 's third album ,  पहियों of आग , थी the संसार 's पहला  platinum-selling double album .
Cream are widely regarded as  होने the संसार 's पहला कामयाब  supergroup .
In their career , they sold  over 15 लाख एल्बम विश्वव्यापी  .
Cream 's music included songs based on traditional blues such as `` Crossroads `` and `` Spoonful `` , and modern  ब्लूज़ ऐसे as `` born अंतर्गत a ख़राब चिह्न `` , as खूब as अधिक eccentric  songs such as `` Strange Brew `` , `` Tales of Brave Ulysses `` and `` Toad `` .
Cream 's biggest hits were `` I Feel Free `` ( UK , number 11 )  , `` सनशाइन of अपना प्रेम `` ( us , क्रमांक 5 ) , `` श्वेत  Room `` ( US , number 6 ) , `` Crossroads '' ( US , number 28 ) , and `` Badge `` ( UK , number 18 ) .
Cream made a significant impact on the popular music of the  समय , और , साथ साथ जिमि हेंड्रिक्स , और टेरी कठ of शिकागो , popularised the उपयोग of the  wah-wah pedal .
They provided a heavy yet technically  निपुण musical थीम कि foreshadowed और बहकावे the emergence of अंग्रेजों  bands such as The Jeff Beck Group in the late 1960s .
The band 's live performances influenced  प्रगतिशील चट्टान  acts such as Rush .
मलाई यहूद inducted into the चट्टान  and Roll Hall of Fame in 1993 .
They were included in both Rolling Stone and VH1 's lists  of the `` 100 महानतम कलाकारों of सब समय ''  .
They were also  क्रमित क्रमांक 16 on vh1 's `` 100 महानतम  Artists of Hard Rock '' .
Hairspray is a 1988 comedy film written and directed by John Waters , and starring  ricki झील , सन्नी बोनो , डिब्बी हैरी , माइकल st. जेरार्ड , shawn थॉम्पसन , colleen fitzpatrick , जेरी stiller , और  in his last film role , Divine .
hairspray थी a नाटकीय प्रस्थान इससे waters ' पहले works ,  with a much broader intended audience .
In fact , Hairsprays PG is the  mildest दरजा a waters फिल्मी रै प्राप्त ; सबसे of उसके पिछला  films were rated X by the MPAA .
Set in 1962 Baltimore , Maryland , the film  घूमती around self-proclaimed `` pleasantly plump '' किशोरावस्था ट्रेसी turnblad as वो pursues स्टारडम as a नर्तकी on a लोकल tv दिखाएँ और रैलियों विरूद्ध जातिगत पृथक्करण  .
Hairspray was only a moderate success  upon इसके आरंभिक नाट्य रिलीज , कमाई a modest  gross of $ 8 million .
However , it  प्रबंधित to आकर्षित a larger दर्शक on  home video in the early 1990s and became a cult classic .
सबसे आलोचकों praised the फिल्मी , हालांकि कुछ  were displeased with the overall campiness .
In 2002 , the film was adapted into a Broadway musical of the same name ,  जिससे जीती आठ टोनी पुरस्कार , सहित बेहतरीन  Musical in 2003 .
A second film version of Hairspray , an adaptation of the stage musical , was also released  by नई लकीर सिनेमा in 2007 , जिससे शामिल अनेक परिवर्तन of scripted वस्तुएं इससे the असली  .
The film also ranks # 444 on Empire magazine  's 2008 सूची of the 500 महानतम फिल्मों of सब समय  .
a ईसाई denomination is an identifiable  religious body under a common name , structure , and doctrine within Christianity .
Some groups  शामिल do नहीं consider themselves a denomination ( e.g. , the कैथोलिक  Church considers itself the one true church and the Apostolic See , and as pre-denominational ) .
Some groups  viewed by non-adherents as denominational actively resist होने पुकारा a denomination और do नहीं have  any formal denominational structure , authority , or record-keeping beyond the local congregation ; several groups within Restoration Movement fall into this category .
Some groups are large ( e.g . Catholics , Lutherans , Anglicans or Baptists ) , while others  हैं बस a few छोटी चर्च , और in सबसे मामले the सापेक्ष आकार is नहीं evident  in this list .
Modern movements such as Fundamentalist Christianity , Pietism ,  evangelicalism , pentecostalism और the पवित्रता गति sometimes क्रॉस denominational लाइनों  , or in some cases create new denominations out of two or more continuing groups , ( as is the case for many United and uniting churches , for example ) .
Such subtleties and  complexities हैं नहीं clearly  depicted here .
Major  विभाजन भीतर christianity  .
Note : This is not a complete list , but aims to  provide a comprehensible अवलोकन of the विविधता among  denominations of Christianity .
As there are reported to be approximately 41,000 Christian denominations , many of which can not be verified to be significant , only those denominations with Wikipedia  आलेख होगा be सूचीबद्ध in अनुक्रम to ensure कि सब प्रविष्टियां on इस सूची  are notable and verifiable .
Between denominations , theologians , and comparative religionists there are considerable  मतभिन्नता परिचय जिससे समूह can be properly पुकारा ईसाई , मतभिन्नता arising  primarily from doctrinal differences between groups .
लिये the purpose of सादगी , इस सूची is intended  to reflect the self-understanding of each denomination .
Explanations of different opinions concerning their status as  ईसाई denominations can be मिला at उनके संबंधित  articles .
There is no official recognition in most parts of the world for religious bodies , and there is no  आधिकारिक clearinghouse जिससे could determine the औकात or respectability of धार्मिक  bodies .
Often there is considerable disagreement between various churches about whether other churches should be  labeled साथ pejorative शर्तें ऐसे as `` cult '' , or परिचय whether इस or कि समूह enjoys कुछ माप  of respectability .
Such considerations often vary from  प्लेस to प्लेस , जहाँ एक धार्मिक समूह may आनंद बहुमत औकात in एक प्रदेश , लकिन be widely regarded as a  `` dangerous cult '' in another part of the world .
Inclusion on this list does not indicate any  निर्णय परिचय the आकार , महत्व , or अक्षर of a समूह  or its members .
1804 map of ``  louisiana `` , edged on the वेस्ट by the रॉकी kyu  .
The Louisiana Purchase ( `` Sale of Louisiana '' ) was the acquisition by the  संयुक्त राज्य of अमेरिका in 1803 of of फ़्रांस 's अर्जी to the territory  of Louisiana .
The U.S. paid 50 million francs ( $ 11 ,250,000 )  प्लस रद्दीकरण of debts लायक 18 लाख francs ( $ 3,750,000 ) , लिये a कुल योग of 15 लाख डॉलर ( कम than 3 सेंट प्रति एकड़ ) लिये the louisiana  territory ( $ million in dollars , less than 42 cents per acre ) .
The Louisiana territory encompassed all or part  of 15 उपस्थित u.S. राज्य  and two Canadian provinces .
The land purchased contained all of present-day Arkansas , Missouri , Iowa , Oklahoma , Kansas , and Nebraska ; parts of Minnesota that were west of the Mississippi River ; most of North Dakota ; most of South Dakota ; northeastern New Mexico ;  उत्तरी टेक्सास ; the portions of मोंटाना , व्योमिंग , और कोलोराडो ईस्ट of the महाद्वीपीय divide ; louisiana वेस्ट of the मिसिसिपी नदी , सहित the  city of New Orleans ; and small portions of land that would eventually become part of the Canadian provinces of Alberta and Saskatchewan .
France controlled this vast area from 1699 until  1762 , the साल it दिया the territory to इसके  ally Spain .
अंतर्गत नेपोलियन बोनापार्ट , फ़्रांस took वापस the territory  in 1800 in the hope of building an empire in North America .
A slave revolt in Haiti and an impending  युद्ध साथ ब्रिटेन , however , led फ़्रांस to लापरवाही ये योजनाएँ और बेचें the संपूर्ण territory to the  United States , who had originally intended only to seek the purchase of New Orleans and its adjacent lands .
The purchase of the territory of  louisiana took प्लेस दौरान the  presidency of Thomas Jefferson .
At the time  , the खरीदें faced घरेलू विपक्ष क्युकी  it was thought to be unconstitutional .
Although he agreed that the U.S. Constitution did not contain provisions for acquiring territory ,  जेफरसन decided to go ahead साथ the खरीदें वैसे in अनुक्रम to हटाएँ फ़्रांस 's उपस्थिति in the प्रदेश और to protect दोनो u.S. व्यापार अभिगम to the बंदरगाहों of  New Orleans and free passage on the Mississippi River .
Ceremony at  प्लेस d'armes , नई ऑरलियन्स अंकन ट्रांसफ़र  of Louisiana to the United States , 10 March 1804 , as depicted by Thure de Thulstrup .
`` Cool Jerk '' is a popular song  लिखा by डोनाल्ड storball और originally performed by  The Capitols .
Released in 1966 , it reached No . 2 on the  अमरीकी r & b चार्ट और no . 7 on the पॉप  chart .
The backing track for this song was actually recorded (  secretly ) by the motown हाउस बैंड the दुर्गंध  Brothers .
Per one of the  दुर्गंध भाइयो , the सोंग थी originally to be  called `` Pimp Jerk . ''
This was taken from watching neighborhood pimps , who would dance in the  क्लब , लकिन यहूद too `` कूल '' to do the झटका जैसे नियमित folks  .
Their version was  subsequently नामित `` the pimp  Jerk . ''
The  निर्माता थी भयभीत कि a सोंग साथ the शब्द pimp in the  title would be banned or not receive much positive attention , and had the title changed to its current form .
The  go-go 's , टॉड rundgren , बिग ट्रबल , इंसान यौन  Response , The La De Da 's , The Creation , and The Coasters have covered the song .
Todd Rundgren did his version  in an विषम समय हस्ताक्षर ( 7/4 ) , giving an obviously jerky  feel to the song .
The Go-Go 's covered the song for their 1982 album Vacation and later  re-recorded it लिये उनके 1990 एल्बम महानतम  .
In the  विशेषता फिल्मी घर अलोन 2 : खोया in नई यॉर्क , ताऊ फ़्रैंक  ( Gerry Bamman ) sings `` Cool Jerk '' in the shower .
A version of the song with different lyrics ( `` Do the  कूल चाबुक '' ) is प्रयुक्त in कूल चाबुक commercials  .
A recording of `` Cool Jerk '' by Ricardo  रे is प्रदर्शित in the विशेषता फिल्मी donnie brasco  ( 1997 ) .
The  सोंग सुविधाएँ in the फिल्मी खड़ा in the साए  of Motown , performed by the Funk Brothers with lead vocals by Bootsy Collins .
The song is  सुना briefly in the एनिमेटेड विशेषता , मेडागास्कर  3 : Europe 's Most Wanted .
Despite this  कारण , it is सूचीबद्ध in कुछ विसंगतियाँ  of the film 's soundtrack .
A league is a unit  of लंबाई ( or , rarely ,  area ) .
It was long common in Europe and Latin America , but  it is no longer an आधिकारिक ईकाई in कोई  nation .
The  लीग originally referred to the  distance a person could walk in an hour .
Since  the मध्य आयु , अनेक मान have  been specified in several countries .
In the context of nautical distances , the 3 mile (  4.8 km ) अलहदा corresponds to कैसा दूर an निरीक्षक of औसत ऊँचाई ( 5'9 ''  or 1.78 m ) can see when standing at sea level .
Thus , a ship traveling one `` league  '' रै पहुँचे कया थी previously the farthest दृश्य अलहदा  on the horizon .
The  कमी of a ऐतिहासिक और वैश्विक मानक लिये the सटीक माप of a `` लीग '' can be accounted  for by the variable elevation of the observer ( i.e. , sightings from a ship 's deck vs. masthead ) .
The Irish state came into being in 1922 as the Irish Free State , a  डोमिनियन of the अंग्रेजों राष्ट्रमंडल , having seceded इससे the संयुक्त किंगडम अंतर्गत  the Anglo-Irish Treaty .
It  comprises 26 of आयरलैंड 's  32 counties .
Since 1949  it रै existed as the गणतंत्र  of Ireland .
From its foundation , the  आयरिश फ़्री राज्य थी embroiled in a सिविल युद्ध between राष्ट्रवादियों supporting the  Treaty and opponents who supported a republic .
The  pro-treaty पक्ष , संगठित as cumann na ngaedheal उभरा विजयी  from the conflict and won subsequent elections .
वे formed the सरकारी of the राज्य जबतक  1932 , when they peacefully handed over power to the anti-Treaty faction in Fianna Fáil , who defeated them in an election .
The Irish  राज्य , despite इसके हिंसक beginnings , रै  remained a liberal democracy throughout its existence .
A new constitution in 1937 removed many of the links with Britain established under the Treaty and Ireland 's neutrality  in the दूसरी संसार युद्ध demonstrated इसके स्वतंत्रता in  foreign policy matters from Britain .
In 1948 Ireland formally left the British  राष्ट्रमंडल और अपनाया the शीर्षक  of `` Republic '' .
In the economic sphere , the  आयरिश राज्य रै था a मिश्रित प्रदर्शन  .
On independence , it  थी एक of the wealthier देशों  in Europe per head of population .
However it also inherited  इससे अंग्रेजों नियम the समस्याएं of बेरोजगारी , करणों , uneven भौगोलिक  development and lack of a native industrial base .
लिये much of इसके इतिहास , the राज्य struggled  to rectify these problems .
Particular peaks of emigration were  अंकित दौरान the लेट 1930s , 1950s और 1980s , जब the आयरिश अर्थव्यवस्था  recorded little growth .
In the  1930s , fianna fáil सरकारें attempted to बनाएँ आयरिश घरेलू उद्योग  using subsidies and protective tarifs .
In the late  1950s , ये नीतियों यहूद dropped in पक्ष of फ़्री व्यापार साथ  selected countries and encouraging of foreign investment with low taxes .
This was  विस्तारित जब आयरलैंड  entered the European Economic Community in 1972 .
In the 1990s and 2000s , Ireland experienced an economic boom known as the  सेल्टिक बाघ , in जिससे the देश 's जीडीपी surpassed अनेक of इसके यूरोपीय पड़ोसी  .
आव्रजन भी surpassed करणों , bringing the राज्य 's जनसांख्यिकी  up to over 4 million .
However , since 2008 , Ireland has experienced a severe  संकट in the बैंकिंग सेक्टर और साथ sovereign  debt .
The resultant economic slump has deepened the  प्रभाव of the संसार मंदी  on Ireland .
From 1937  to 1998 , the आयरिश संविधान शामिल a अर्जी on उत्तरी आयरलैंड  as a part of the national territory .
However , the  राज्य भी opposed और प्रयुक्त इसके सुरक्षा शक्तियां विरूद्ध those हथियारबंद समूह  - principally the Provisional Irish Republican Army , who tried to unite Ireland by force .
This  occurred in the 1950s , throughout the  1970s and 1980s and has continued on a reduced scale .
Irish governments meanwhile tried to broker an agreement to the conflict  ज्ञात as the परेशानियों भीतर उत्तरी आयरलैंड इससे 1968  to the late 1990s .
The British government officially recognised the right of the Irish government  to be a पार्टी to the उत्तरी negotiations  in the Anglo-Irish Agreement of 1985 .
In 1998 , as part of the Good Friday Agreement , the Irish constitution was altered by referendum to remove the territorial claim to  उत्तरी आयरलैंड और बजाय extend the सही of आयरिश नागरिकता to सब the लोगों of the द्वीप चाहिए वे काश to have it  .
John Quincy Adams ( July 11  , 1767february 23 , 1848 ) थी the छठे अध्यक्ष  of the United States ( 1825–1829 ) .
He served as American  राजनयिक , सीनेटर , और congressional प्रतिनिधि  .
He was a member of the Federalist , Democratic-Republican , National  रिपब्लिकन , और बाद anti-masonic और  Whig parties .
एडम्स थी the बेटे of पूर्व अध्यक्ष  John Adams and Abigail Adams .
As a diplomat ,  एडम्स निभाई an महत्वपूर्ण भूमिका in negotiating अनेक अंतरराष्ट्रीय treaties ,  most notably the Treaty of Ghent , which ended the War of 1812 .
As Secretary of State , he negotiated with the United Kingdom over America 's northern border with Canada ,  negotiated साथ स्पेन the annexation of फ्लोरिडा , और authored  the Monroe Doctrine .
Historians  सहमत he थी एक of the महानतम राजनयिकों और secretaries  of state in American history .
As president , he  sought to modernize the अमरीकी अर्थव्यवस्था और  promoted education .
Adams enacted a part of his  कार्यसूची और सशुल्क बंद much of the नेशनल कर्ज़  .
He was stymied by a  कॉंग्रेस नियंत्रित by उसके दुश्मनों , और उसके  lack of patronage networks helped politicians eager to undercut him .
He lost his  1828 बोली लिये re-election  to Andrew Jackson .
In doing so , he became the first president  चूंकि उसके पिता to serve a सिंगल पद  .
Adams is best known as a diplomat who shaped America 's foreign  नीति in लकीर साथ उसके ardently राष्ट्रवादी प्रतिबद्धता to अमेरिका 's रिपब्लिकन  values .
More recently Howe (  2007 ) portrayed एडम्स as the exemplar और moral  leader in an era of modernization .
During Adams ' lifetime , technological innovations and new means of  संचार स्प्रेड संदेश of धार्मिक पुनरुद्धार , सोशल सुधार , और पार्टी राजनीती  .
Goods , money , and people  traveled अधिक rapidly और efficiently than कभी  before .
Adams was elected a U.S. Representative from Massachusetts after leaving office ,  सेवारत लिये the पिछला 17 सालो of उसके जीवन साथ दूर वृहद acclamation than  he had achieved as president .
He is , so far , the only president later elected  to the संयुक्त राज्य हाउस of प्रतिनिधि ( हालांकि जॉन टायलर थी निर्वाचित to the हाउस of प्रतिनिधि  of the Confederate States just before his death in 1862 ) .
Animated by his growing revulsion against slavery ,  एडम्स became a अग्रणी प्रतिद्वन्दी of the स्लेव  Power .
He predicted that  if a सिविल युद्ध यहूद to ब्रेक आउट , the अध्यक्ष could abolish  slavery by using his war powers .
Adams also predicted the Union 's dissolution over the slavery  समस्या , लकिन कहा कि if the दक्षिण became स्वतंत्र वहीँ  would be a series of bloody slave revolts .
Windows  अंतरजाल एक्सप्लोरर 9 ( ie9 ) is a संस्करण of the अंतरजाल एक्सप्लोरर  web browser from Microsoft .
It was  released to the पब्लिक on कूच  14 , 2011 .
Microsoft has released Internet Explorer 9 as a major  out-of-band संस्करण कि is नहीं tied to the रिलीज अनुसूची of कोई  particular version of Windows , unlike previous versions .
It is the first version since Internet Explorer 2 to not be bundled with a  खिड़कियाँ ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली , हालांकि कुछ oems have संस्थापित it साथ खिड़कियाँ 7 on उनके pcs , as खूब as नई खिड़कियाँ 7 लैपटॉप  .
The system requirements for Internet Explorer 9 are Windows 7 , Windows Server 2008 R2 , Windows  विस्टा सेवा पैक 2 or खिड़कियाँ सर्वर 2008 sp2 साथ the मंच अद्यतन  .
Windows XP  और पहले  are not supported .
Internet  एक्सप्लोरर 9 is the पिछला संस्करण  of Internet Explorer to be supported on Windows Vista .
Both  ia-32 और x64 builds हैं  available .
Internet Explorer 9 supports several CSS 3 properties , embedded ICC v2 or  v4 रंग प्रोफ़ाइल support via खिड़कियाँ रंग प्रणाली , और रै improved जावास्क्रिप्ट  performance .
It is the  पिछला of the पाँच प्रमुख वेब browsers  to implement support for Scalable Vector Graphics ( SVG ) .
It also features hardware-accelerated graphics rendering using Direct2D ,  hardware-accelerated टेक्स्ट रेंडरिंग using directwrite , hardware-accelerated वीडियो रेंडरिंग using मीडिया न्यास  , imaging support provided by Windows Imaging Component , and high fidelity printing powered by the XML Paper Specification ( XPS ) print pipeline .
अंतरजाल एक्सप्लोरर 9 भी supports the html5 वीडियो  and audio tags and the Web Open Font Format .
Alka-Seltzer is an effervescent antacid and pain  reliever पहला marketed by the dr . मील  Medicine Company .
it थी विकसित by मौरिस  Treener , head chemist at Miles , in Elkhart , Indiana .
Alka-Seltzer is marketed for relief of minor aches ,  pains , सूजन , ज्वर , सिरदर्द , heartburn , खट्टा पेट , अपच , और hangovers , जबकि neutralizing  excess stomach acid .
It  थी शुभारम्भ  in 1931 .
A spin-off of Alka-Seltzer  बना to relieve जुकाम और फ्लू , alka-seltzer प्लस , थी बाद introduced  .
A  short-lived antacid non-aspirin रूपांतर , alka-mints  , was introduced in 1994 and discontinued in 1997 .
Alka-Seltzer is currently owned by  बायर schering फार्मा ag ,  Germany .
The name `` Alka-Seltzer '' has been extended to incorporate an  संपूर्ण लकीर of medications बेची over the काउंटर और लिया by अर्थात् of rapidly  dissolving tablets that form a carbonated solution in water .
Cherry Alka Seltzer  प्लस टैब्लेट dissolving in जल
Image showing the six  सबसे आम speleothems साथ लेबल्स  .
enlarge to दृश्य  labels .
A stalactite ( , ; from the Greek stalasso ,  ( σταλάσσω ) , `` to ड्रिप '' , और अर्थ `` कि जिससे drips '' ) is a प्रकार of speleothem ( द्वितीयक  mineral ) that hangs from the ceiling of limestone caves .
It is a  प्रकार of dripstone  .
The corresponding  गठन on the मंजिल of the गुफा is ज्ञात  as a stalagmite .
Degree abbreviations are used as an alternative way to specify an  अकादमिक उपाधि बजाय of स्पेलिंग आउट the शीर्षक in पूरा , ऐसे as in सन्दर्भ किताबे जैसे जो 's जो  and on business cards .
Many degrees have  अधिक than एक संक्षिप्त  .
In the UK , it is not generally the custom to punctuate  abbreviations लिये डिग्री साथ पूरा stops ( e.g . `` बीएससी  '' rather than `` B.Sc . `` .
Race is a classification system used to categorize humans into large  और पृथक populations or समूह by anatomical , सांस्कृतिक , जातीय , जेनेटिक , भौगोलिक , ऐतिहासिक , भाषाई ,  religious , or social affiliation .
First used to denote national affiliations , the  पद began to be प्रयुक्त to सुनाना to शारीरिक traits in the  17th century .
In the early 20th century the term was often used , in a taxonomic  भाव , to denote genetically differentiated इंसान populations पारिभाषित by phenotype  .
While  biologists sometimes उपयोग the अवधारणा of रेस to मेक भेद among फजी सेट of traits , अन्य in the वैज्ञानिक जातियाँ सुझाएँ कि the विचार of रेस प्रायः is प्रयुक्त in a भोली or simplistic  way , i.e . that among humans , race has no taxonomic significance : all living humans belong to the same species , Homo sapiens and subspecies , Homo sapiens sapiens .
सोशल conceptions और groupings of दौड़  vary over time , involving folk taxonomies
that  define of individuals आधारित on  perceived traits .
Scientists consider biological essentialism obsolete , and generally discourage racial  स्पष्टीकरण लिये सामूहिक differentiation  in both physical and behavioral traits .
Since the  दूसरी हाफ of the 20th सदी the एसोसिएशन of रेस साथ the विचारधाराओं और theories कि grew  out of the work of 19th-century anthropologists and physiologists has led to the use of the word race itself becoming problematic .
Although still used in general contexts , it is now often replaced by other words which  हैं कम अस्पष्ट और emotionally चार्ज , ऐसे as populations , लोगों ( s ) , जातीय समूह  or communities depending on context .
Lucy Stone ( August 13 , 1818 – October 19 , 1893 ) was a prominent  अमरीकी abolitionist और suffragist , और a गायन एडवोकेट और  organizer promoting rights for women .
In 1847 , Stone became the first  स्त्री इससे मैसाचुसेट्स to  earn a college degree .
She spoke  आउट लिये महिलाओं 's अधिकारों और विरूद्ध गुलामी at a समय जब महिलाओं यहूद  discouraged and prevented from public speaking .
Stone was the  पहला अंकित अमरीकी स्त्री to retain  her own last name after marriage .
Stone 's organizational activities  लिये the कारण of महिलाओं 's अधिकारों yielded ठोस gains in the मुश्किल राजनैतिक पर्यावरण of the 19th  century .
Stone helped initiate the first  नेशनल महिलाओं 's अधिकारों सम्मेलन और वो समर्थित और sustained it annually  along with a number of other local , state and regional activist conventions .
स्टोन spoke in सामने of a क्रमांक of  legislative bodies to promote laws giving more rights to women .
She assisted in establishing the Woman 's National Loyal League to help pass the Thirteenth Amendment and thereby  abolish गुलामी , बाद जिससे वो helped रूप the largest समूह of like-minded महिलाओं 's अधिकारों reformers , the नीतियां मॉडरेट  American Woman Suffrage Association , which worked for decades at the state level in favor of women 's right to vote .
Stone  लिखा extensively परिचय a चौड़ी दायरा of महिलाओं 's अधिकारों  , publishing and distributing speeches by herself and others , and convention proceedings .
In the long-running and influential Woman 's Journal , a weekly periodical that she established and promoted  , स्टोन aired दोनो उसके अपना और differing दृश्य परिचय महिलाओं  's rights .
Called `` the orator '' and `` the morning star of the woman 's  अधिकारों गति '' , स्टोन वितरित a वाक जिससे sparked सुसान  B. Anthony to take up the cause of women 's suffrage .
Elizabeth Cady Stanton wrote that `` Lucy Stone was the  पहला व्यक्ति by जिसको the दिल of the अमरीकी पब्लिक  was deeply stirred on the woman question . ''
Together , Anthony , Stanton , and Stone have  महरूम पुकारा the 19th सदी `` triumvirate `` of महिलाओं 's  suffrage and feminism .
In finance  , a बंध is an यंत्र of indebtedness  of the bond issuer to the holders .
It is a debt security , under which the issuer owes the holders a debt and  , depending on the शर्तें of the बंध , is obliged to अदा उन्हें ब्याज ( the कूपन )  or to repay the principal at a later date , termed the maturity .
ब्याज is प्रायः देय at फिक्स्ड intervals ( semiannual  , annual , sometimes monthly ) .
Very often the bond is negotiable , i.e . the ownership of the instrument can be  transferred in the द्वितीयक  market .
Thus a bond is a form of loan or IOU : the holder of the bond is the lender (  creditor ) , the जारीकर्ता of the बंध is the borrower ( debtor ) , और the कूपन is the ब्याज  .
Bonds  provide the borrower साथ बाह्य निधि to वित्त long-term निवेश , or , in the मामला of  government bonds , to finance current expenditure .
Certificates of deposit ( CDs ) or short term  वाणिज्यिक पेपर हैं माना to be धन मार्केट यंत्र  and not bonds : the main difference is in the length of the term of the instrument .
Bonds and stocks are both securities , but the major difference between the two is that ( capital ) stockholders have an equity stake in the  कम्पनी ( i.e . वे हैं स्वामी ) , whereas bondholders have a creditor हिस्सेदारी in the कम्पनी  ( i.e . they are lenders ) .
Another  अंतर is कि bonds प्रायः have a पारिभाषित पद , or परिपक्वता , बाद  which the bond is redeemed , whereas stocks may be outstanding indefinitely .
An  एक्सेप्शन is an irredeemable बंध , ऐसे as consols , जिससे is  a perpetuity , i.e . a bond with no maturity .
A  स्केल मॉडल of  the Tower of London .
This model  can be मिला अंदर  the tower .
Scale model of  जल संचालित टर्बाइन
L to R with 12 inch ruler at bottom : 1:64  matchbox शेवरलेट tahoe , 1:43 घाट f-100 , 1:25 revell monogram 1999 घाट mustang कोबरा  , 1:18 Bburago 1987 Ferrari F40
Model  जहाजों और किला
A scale model is a physical model , a representation or copy of an object that is larger or smaller than the actual size  of the ऑब्जेक्ट , जिससे seeks to maintain the सापेक्ष proportions ( the स्केल फ़ैक्टर ) of the शारीरिक आकार of the असली ऑब्जेक्ट  .
Very often the scale model is  प्रयुक्त as a मार्गदर्शिका to बनाना the ऑब्जेक्ट in  full size .
Scale  मॉडल हैं निर्मित or  collected for many reasons .
The Zune HD was a portable media player in the Zune  उत्पाद परिवार released on सितंबर 15 , 2009 by microsoft  .
It was a direct competitor  साथ the ठहराना ipod और iphone श्रेणी  of mobile devices .
It  थी initially released in  16 and 32 GB capacities .
A 64 GB version was  released on अप्रैल 9 , 2010  .
It utilized a touchscreen interface for navigation and  शामिल wi-fi लिये तुल्यकालन , अभिगम to the zune  Marketplace and Web browsing .
The Zune HD utilized the Nvidia Tegra  apx 2600 चिप , allowing it to खेल 720p वीडियो through the वैकल्पिक hdmi zune डॉक  on a high-definition television .
Otherwise , content would be scaled down to  480x272 पिक्सेल on the खिलाड़ी 's  OLED touchscreen .
बूढ़ा sparky , the इलेक्ट्रिक  chair used at Sing Sing prison
Execution by electrocution , usually  performed using an इलेक्ट्रिक कुर्सी , is an निष्पादन विधि originating in the संयुक्त राज्य in जिससे the  condemned person is strapped to a specially built wooden chair and electrocuted through electrodes placed on the body .
This execution method was created by employees of Thomas Edison during the War of Currents , and has been used only  in the संयुक्त राज्य और , लिये a काल of अनेक दशकों , in the फिलीपीन ( इसके पहला उपयोग वहीँ in 1924 अंतर्गत अमरीकी  occupation , last in 1976 ) .
Historically , once the condemned person was  संलग्न to the कुर्सी , विभिन्न चक्र ( differing in वोल्टेज और अवधि ) of प्रत्यावर्ती वर्तमान होता be passed through the व्यक्तिगत  's body , in order to cause fatal damage to the internal organs ( including the brain ) .
the पहला धक्का of इलेक्ट्रिक वर्तमान थी designed to कारण तात्कालिक unconsciousness  and brain death ; the second one was designed to cause fatal damage to the vital organs .
मौत थी अक्सर caused by विद्युत  overstimulation of the heart .
Although in the United States the  इलेक्ट्रिक कुर्सी रै become a प्रतीक of the मौत दंड , इसके  use is in decline due to the rise of lethal injection , which is widely believed to be a more humane method of execution .
Although some states still maintain electrocution as a method of  निष्पादन , आज it is तभी कायम as a द्वितीयक विधि कि may be चुनी over lethal  injection at the request of the prisoner .
as of 2010 , electrocution is an  optional form of execution in Alabama , Florida , South Carolina and Virginia .
They allow the  कैदी to  choose lethal injection as an alternative method .
In the states of Kentucky and Tennessee , the electric chair has been retired except for those whose capital crimes were committed prior to legislated dates  in 1998 ( केंटकी : कूच 31 , 1998 ; टेनेसी : दिसम्बर 31 , 1998 ) और जो chose electrocution  .
In both states , inmates who do not choose electrocution  or inmates जो वचनबद्ध उनके अपराधों बाद the designated  date are killed by lethal injection .
The  इलेक्ट्रिक कुर्सी is an वैकल्पिक रूप of निष्पादन स्वीकृत लिये संभावित उपयोग in अरकंसास  and Oklahoma if other forms of execution are found unconstitutional in the state at the time of execution .
It is the sole method of  निष्पादन in वर्मांट , जहाँ देशद्रोह  is the only capital crime .
On February  8 , 2008 , the नेब्रास्का परम् अदालत संकल्पित  that execution by electric chair was a `` cruel and unusual punishment '' under the state 's constitution .
इस brought executions of इस प्रकार to an समाप्त  in Nebraska , the only remaining state to retain electrocution as its sole method of execution for murder .
The Maryland House of Delegates is the lower house of the General Assembly , the state  विधानमंडल of the अमरीकी राज्य of मेरीलैंड , और is रचित of 141 delegates  elected from 47 districts .
The House of Delegates Chamber is located in the Maryland State  हाउस ( राज्य कैपिटल ) on राज्य वृत्त in annapolis , जिससे is the राज्य  capital .
The  राज्य हाउस भी घरों the मेरीलैंड राज्य सीनेट कक्ष और the कार्यालयों of the  Governor and Lieutenant Governor of the State of Maryland .
Each Delegate has  कार्यालयों in annapolis , in the आसपास  Casper R. Taylor , Jr. House Office Building .
The Liberation of Paris ( also known as the Battle for Paris ) took place  दौरान संसार युद्ध ii इससे 19 अगस्त 1944 जबतक the आत्मसमर्पण of the occupying  German garrison on 25 August .
The Liberation of Paris started with an uprising by the French  प्रतिरोध विरूद्ध the जर्मनी गैरीसन  .
On  24 अगस्त , the फ्रेंच शक्तियां of the आंतरिक ( शक्तियां françaises de  l'intérieur , FFI ) received reinforcements from the Free French Army of Liberation and from the U.S. Third Army under General Patton .
The capital region of France had been governed by Nazi Germany since the signing of the Second Compiègne Armistice in June 1940 , when  the जर्मनी फौज occupied उत्तरी और westernmost फ़्रांस , और जब the कठपुतली शासन  of Vichy France was established in the town of Vichy in central France .
This battle marked the liberation of  पेरिस और the निर्वासन of the vichy सरकारी to  Sigmaringen in Germany .
However , there was still much heavy  लड़ to be किया पहले फ़्रांस थी liberated , सहित the अभियान in दक्षिणी फ़्रांस दौरान august-september ( in provence और extending into the southwestern प्रदेश of the vosges kyu ) , साथ the german-held  seaports of western France ( such as at Brest and Dunkirk ) , in Alsace and Lorraine in eastern France , and in northeastern France , such as along the Rhine and Moder Rivers .
The German Army and SS fought doggedly in these areas for  the शेष of 1944  and into 1945 .
`` Feelin ' Alright ? '' also known as ``  अहसास alright '' is a सोंग लिखा by डेव मेसन of the अंग्रेज़ी चट्टान बैंड  Traffic from their eponymous 1968 album , Traffic .
The song was also a hit single for several performers : Joe Cocker ( 1969 , # 69 , recharted in  1972 , us # 33 ) , mongo santamaría ( 1969 , # 95 ) और ग्रैंड दुर्गंध रेलरोड  ( 1971 , US # 54 ) .
it रै भी महरूम अंकित by तीन श्वान रात्रि ( 1969 ) , the 5th आयाम ( 1970 ) , लू राल्स , फ्रेडी किंग , पॉल weller , lulu ,  Chairmen of the Board ( 1970 ) , Rare Earth , The Electric Concept Orchestra , Mother 's Finest ( 1973 ) , The Ohio Players ( 1971 ) , Diana Ross with the Jackson 5 ( 1971 ) , Maceo Parker , Gladys Knight & the Pips , Widespread Panic and The Black Crowes .
A Steel Drum version by Trinidad Oil  कम्पनी थी reissued on the  dancefloor jazz compilation Blue Juice 2 .
It was also featured in the 2000 film  duets , सुंग by huey लुईस  .
Both the original and the  जो cocker कवर यहूद प्रदर्शित in the फिल्म उड़ान , अभिनीत  Denzel Washington .
Devon Werkheiser ( born March 8,1991 ) is an American actor , voice  कर्ता , सिंगर , songwriter और संगीतकार , बेहतरीन ज्ञात लिये उसके अभिनीत भूमिका as ned bigby on the निकलोडियन sitcom ned 's declassified स्कूल  Survival Guide and for his role in the 2007 TV Movie Shredderman Rules , as the lead character Nolan Byrd .
Werkheiser also played  पीटर parkes in the चौथी और  final season of the ABC Family show Greek .
Sample  दृश्य of an इलेक्ट्रॉनिक स्वास्थ्य  record based on images
Sample view of an  इलेक्ट्रॉनिक स्वास्थ्य रिकार्ड
An electronic health record ( EHR ) is an  evolving अवधारणा पारिभाषित as a व्यवस्थित संग्रहण of इलेक्ट्रॉनिक स्वास्थ्य सूचना  about individual patients or populations .
It is a record in digital format that is  theoretically सक्षम of होने साझा आरपार अलग स्वास्थ्य परवाह  settings .
In some cases this sharing can occur  by रास्ता of network-connected enterprise-wide सूचना प्रणालियों  and other information networks or exchanges .
EHRs may include a range of data , including demographics , medical history ,  दवा और allergies , immunization औकात , प्रयोगशाला परीक्षण परिणाम , radiology बिंब , vital लक्षण , निजी आंकड़े जैसे आयु और  weight , and billing information .
Loan  origination is the प्रक्रम by जिससे a borrower applies  for a new loan , and a lender processes that application .
Origination generally  शामिल सब the कदम इससे लेने a ऋण अनुप्रयोग  up to disbursal of funds ( or declining the application ) .
Loan servicing  कवर सबकुछ बाद disbursing the  funds until the loan is fully paid off .
Loan origination is a specialized version of new  खाता खोलने लिये वित्तीय सेवाएं  organizations .
Certain people and  संगठन specialize in ऋण  origination .
Mortgage brokers and other mortgage  originator कंपनियाँ serve as a prominent  example .
There are  अनेक अलग प्रकार  of loans .
For  अधिक सूचना on ऋण प्रकार , देखिए  the loan and consumer lending articles .
Steps involved in  originating a ऋण vary by ऋण प्रकार , विभिन्न kinds of  loan risk , regulator , lender policy , and other factors .
Top left : The Tennessee Valley  प्राधिकार , भाग of the नई सौदे , होने  signed into law in 1933 .
Top right : Franklin Delano Roosevelt , who was  जिम्मेदार लिये पहलों और कार्यक्रम collectively ज्ञात as the नई  Deal .
Bottom : A  पब्लिक भित्ति इससे एक of the कलाकारों  employed by the New Deal .
The New  सौदे थी a श्रेणी of आर्थिक  programs enacted in the United States between 1933 and 1936 .
They  शामिल अध्यक्षीय कार्यपालिका आदेश or कानून passed  by Congress during the first term of President Franklin D. Roosevelt .
The  कार्यक्रम यहूद in जवाब to the ग्रेट अवसाद , और केन्द्रित on कया इतिहासकारों कॉल the `` 3 rs '' :  Relief , Recovery , and Reform .
That is Relief for the unemployed and poor  ; रिकवरी of the अर्थव्यवस्था to सामान्य स्तर ; और सुधार of the वित्तीय  system to prevent a repeat depression .
The New Deal  उत्पादित a राजनैतिक realignment , बनाना the लोकतांत्रिक पार्टी  the majority ( as well as the party that held the White House for seven out of nine Presidential terms from 1933 to 1969 ) , with its base in liberal ideas , the white South , traditional Democrats , big city machines , and the newly empowered labor unions and ethnic minorities .
The Republicans were split , with conservatives opposing  the संपूर्ण नई सौदे as an दुश्मन of कारोबार और विकास , और उदारवादियों accepting कुछ  of it and promising to make it more efficient .
The realignment crystallized into the New Deal Coalition that  वर्चस्व सबसे अध्यक्षीय चुनावों into the 1960s , जबकि the विपक्ष रूढ़िवादी  Coalition largely controlled Congress from 1937 to 1963 .
By 1936 the term `` liberal  '' typically थी प्रयुक्त लिये समर्थक of the नई सौदे , और  `` conservative `` for its opponents .
From  1934 to 1938 , रूज़वेल्ट थी assisted in उसके endeavours by a “pro-spender” बहुमत  in Congress ( drawn from two-party , competitive , non-machine , Progressive , and Left party districts ) .
As noted by Alexander Hicks , “Roosevelt , backed by rare ,  non-southern डेमोक्रेट majorities — 270 non-southern डेमोक्रेट प्रतिनिधि  and 71 non-Southern Democrat senators — spelled Second New Deal reform.”
Many historians distinguish between a `` First New Deal '' ( 1933–34  ) और a `` दूसरी नई सौदे '' ( 1935–38 ) , साथ the दूसरी एक अधिक  liberal and more controversial .
The `` First New Deal '' ( 1933–34 ) dealt with diverse groups ,  इससे बैंकिंग और railroads to उद्योग और खेती , सब of जिससे मांगे सहायता लिये आर्थिक अस्तित्व  .
The Federal Emergency Relief Administration , for instance , provided $ 500 million for relief operations by states  और शहरों , जबकि the short-lived cwa ( सिविल works प्रशासन ) दिया बस्तियों धन to operate make-work  projects in 1933-34 .
The `` Second New Deal `` in 1935–38  शामिल the वेगनर अधिनियम to प्रचार मजदूर संघ , the works प्रगति प्रशासन ( wpa ) राहत कार्यक्रम ( जिससे बना the संघीय सरकारी by दूर the largest  single employer in the nation ) , the Social Security Act , and new programs to aid tenant farmers and migrant workers .
The final major items  of नई सौदे विधान यहूद the सृष्टि of the संयुक्त राज्य आवास प्राधिकार और फार्म सुरक्षा प्रशासन , दोनो in 1937 , और the मेला मजदूर मानकों  Act of 1938 , which set maximum hours and minimum wages for most categories of workers .
The economic downturn of 1937–38 , and the bitter split  between the afl और cio मजदूर संघ led to प्रमुख रिपब्लिकन gains  in Congress in 1938 .
रूढ़िवादी republicans और डेमोक्रेट in कॉंग्रेस  joined in the informal Conservative Coalition .
By 1942–43 they shut down relief programs such as the WPA and CCC  और अवरोधित प्रमुख उदार प्रस्ताव  .
Roosevelt himself  turned उसके ध्यान to the युद्ध प्रयत्न  , and won reelection in 1940 and 1944 .
The Supreme Court declared the National Recovery Administration ( NRA ) and the first  संस्करण of the agricultural समायोजन अधिनियम ( aaa ) असंवैधानिक , however the aaa  was rewritten and then upheld .
As the  पहला रिपब्लिकन अध्यक्ष निर्वाचित बाद fdr , ड्वाइट D. आइज़नहावर ( 1953–61  ) left the New Deal largely intact , even expanding it in some areas .
In the 1960s , Lyndon  B. जॉनसन 's ग्रेट समाज प्रयुक्त the नई सौदे as प्रेरणा लिये a नाटकीय विस्तार of उदार कार्यक्रम  , which Republican Richard M. Nixon generally retained .
After 1974 , however , the call  लिये deregulation of the अर्थव्यवस्था gained  bipartisan support .
The New Deal regulation of banking (  glass–steagall अधिनियम ) थी निलंबित in the  1990s .
Many New Deal programs remain active , with some still operating under the  असली names , सहित the संघीय जमा बीमे निगम ( fdic ) , the संघीय क्रॉप बीमे निगम ( fcic ) , the संघीय आवास  Administration ( FHA ) , and the Tennessee Valley Authority ( TVA ) .
The largest programs still in existence today are  the सोशल सुरक्षा प्रणाली और the प्रतिभूति और एक्सचेंज आयोग ( सेक  ) .
A  स्त्री ( ) , pl : महिलाओं  ( ) is a female human .
The term  स्त्री is प्रायः सुरक्षित लिये an वयस्क  , with the term girl being the usual term for a female child or adolescent .
However , the term woman is also sometimes used  to पहचानो a मादा इंसान , regardless of आयु , as in वाक्यांश ऐसे as  `` Women 's rights `` .
Women are typically capable of giving birth , though older  महिलाओं जो have गए through रजोनिवृत्ति और कुछ intersex महिलाओं  can not .
`` I  do n't want to मिस a बात '' is a सोंग performed  by American rock band Aerosmith for the 1998 film Armageddon .
Written by Diane Warren , the song debuted at number one on the Billboard Hot 100  ( the पहला # 1 लिये the बैंड बाद 28 सालो  together ) .
The  सोंग ठहरे at क्रमांक एक लिये चार सप्ताह इससे  September 5 to September 26 , 1998 .
The  सोंग भी ठहरे at क्रमांक 1 लिये अनेक  weeks in several other countries .
In the UK , the song  peaked at क्रमांक चार , बनने एरोस्मिथ 's उच्चतम charting सोंग in the uk , जहाँ it थी the 17th  best-selling single of 1998 , and has sold over a million copies .
Although not used by the majority of the world 's countries ,  daylight छायांकन समय is आम in the पश्चिमी  world .
Daylight  छायांकन समय ( dst ) —also गर्मियाँ समय in अंग्रेजों अंग्रेज़ी — is the अभ्यास of  advancing clocks during the lighter months so that evenings have more daylight and mornings have less .
Typically clocks  हैं समायोजित आगे एक घंटा निकट the प्रारंभ  of spring and are adjusted backward in autumn .
The modern idea of daylight saving was first  प्रस्तावित in 1895 by जार्ज vernon हडसन और it थी पहला implemented दौरान  the First World War .
Many countries have used it  at विभिन्न टाइम्स  since then .
Much of the United States used DST in the 1950s and 1960s , and DST use expanded following the 1970s energy crisis  और रै महरूम widely प्रयुक्त in उत्तर अमेरिका और यूरोपीय  since then .
The practice has  महरूम दोनो praised और criticized  .
Adding daylight  to evenings लाभ retailing , खेल , और अन्य क्रियाएँ कि exploit धूप बाद  working hours , but can cause problems for evening entertainment and other occupations tied to the sun .
Although an early goal  of dst थी to reduce संध्या उपयोग of incandescent lighting ( formerly a प्राथमिक उपयोग of विद्युत  ) , modern heating and cooling usage patterns differ greatly , and research about how DST currently affects energy use is limited or contradictory .
DST clock shifts present  अन्य चुनौतियां  .
They complicate  timekeeping , और can disrupt बैठक , सफर , बिलिंग , रिकार्ड keeping , चिकित्सा डिवाइस  , heavy equipment , and sleep patterns .
तन्त्र can प्रायः समायोजन कंप्यूटर घड़ियाँ automatically , लकिन  this can be limited and error-prone , particularly when DST dates are changed .
Floorplan of the  château de montargis
Montargis is a commune in the Loiret department in  north-central फ़्रांस on the loing नदी  .
The town is located about  दक्षिण of पेरिस और ईस्ट of orléans in  the Gâtinais .
Montargis is the  दूसरी largest नगर  in the Loiret , after Orléans .
It is near a large  वन , और contains लाइट उद्योग  and farming , including saffron .
Due to  इसके numerous नहरों और पुलों , montargis  sometimes bills itself as the `` Venice of the Gâtinais . ''
Though quite  आधुनिक , it retains a मध्यकालीन  charm in its downtown area .
In computer storage , a logical unit number , or LUN , is a number  प्रयुक्त to पहचानो a लॉजिकल ईकाई , जिससे is a यंत्र addressed by the scsi प्रोटोकॉल or प्रोटोकॉल जिससे  encapsulate SCSI , such as Fibre Channel or iSCSI .
A LUN may be  प्रयुक्त साथ कोई यंत्र जिससे supports read/write परिचालन , ऐसे as a टेप  drive , but is most often used to refer to a logical disk as created on a SAN .
Though not technically  सही , the पद `` lun '' is प्रायः भी प्रयुक्त  to refer to the logical disk itself .
The Gospel According to Mark ( , , to  euangelion kata markon ) , commonly shortened to the इन्जील of चिह्नित or बस  Mark , is the second book of the New Testament .
This canonical account of the life  of यीशु of नासरत is एक of the तीन synoptic  gospels .
It  थी विचार to be an निचोड़ , जिससे खाते  for its place as the second gospel in the Bible .
however , सबसे समकालीन विद्वानों अभी  regard it as the earliest of the canonical gospels ( c 70 ) .
That Mark was used as a source for the other synoptic  gospels इन्जील of मैथ्यू और इन्जील of ल्यूक is widely आयोजित by अनेक  , although not all , New Testament scholars .
The Gospel of Mark narrates the Ministry of  यीशु इससे उसके बपतिस्मा by जॉन the बैपटिस्ट to उसके मौत और क़यामत  .
It focuses particularly on the last week of his  जीवन ( अध्याय 11–16 )  in Jerusalem .
Its swift narrative  portrays यीशु as a वीर man of कार्रवाई ,  an exorcist , healer and miracle worker .
An important  थीम of चिह्नित is the मुक्तिदाता  Secret .
Jesus  silences the demoniacs he heals , कोशिशें unsuccessfully  to keep his messianic identity secret , and conceals his message with parables .
Meanwhile , the  शिष्यों असफल to समझे दोनो the implication of the चमत्कार of  Jesus and the meaning of the things he predicts about his arrest , death and resurrection .
Most scholars believe that the original text of the gospel ends at Mark 16:8 with the discovery of Jesus '  खाली मकबरा और कि the following खाता of उसके क़यामत दिखावे is  a later addition .
According to tradition and some early church writers  , the लेखक is चिह्नित the इंजीलवादी , the साथी of the  apostle Peter .
The gospel , however , appears to rely on several underlying sources , varying in form  और in धर्मशास्त्र , जिससे tells विरूद्ध the परंपरा कि the इन्जील थी आधारित on पीटर 's  preaching .
The text is a compilation which may include eye-witness accounts as well as known apostolic preachings , and pre-existing written records  कि do नहीं मौजूद आज लकिन can be पुष्टि इससे 2nd-century  commentators .
Some of the  कहानियां in the इन्जील may have महरूम transmitted orally  before being written down .
Various elements within the gospel suggest that  the लेखक लिखा in सीरियाई or फिलिस्तीन लिये a non-jewish ईसाई  community .
The  रब of the बजती is an एपिक ऊँची काल्पनिक अनोखा लिखा by अंग्रेज़ी भाषाशास्त्री और विश्वविद्यालयों  of Oxford professor J. R. R. Tolkien .
The story began as a sequel to Tolkien 's  1937 children 's काल्पनिक अनोखा the होब्बिट ,  but eventually developed into a much larger work .
It was  लिखा in चरण between 1937 और 1949 ,  much of it during World War II .
It  is the दूसरी best-selling अनोखा कभी लिखा  , with over 150 million copies sold .
The title of the novel refers to the story 's main antagonist , the Dark Lord Sauron , who  था in an पहले आयु निर्मित the एक रिंग to नियम the अन्य बजती of शक्ति  as the ultimate weapon in his campaign to conquer and rule all of Middle-earth .
From quiet beginnings in the Shire , a Hobbit land not unlike the English countryside , the story ranges across north-west Middle-earth , following the course of the War  of the रिंग through the आँखें of इसके वर्ण , notably the hobbits frodo baggins , samwise `` sam '' gamgee , meriadoc `` मैरी '' brandybuck और peregrin `` pippin '' took , लकिन भी the hobbits  ' chief allies and travelling companions : Aragorn , a Human Ranger ; Boromir , a man from Gondor ; Gimli , a Dwarf warrior ; Legolas , an Elven prince ; and Gandalf , a Wizard .
The work was initially intended by Tolkien to be one volume of a two-volume set ,  साथ the अन्य होने the silmarillion , लकिन इस विचार थी बर्खास्त by उसके प्रकाशक  .
It was decided for economic  कारण to प्रकाशित the रब of the बजती as तीन आयतन over the कोर्स of a साल इससे 29 जुलाई  1954 to 20 October 1955 , thus creating the now familiar Lord of the Rings trilogy .
The three volumes were  हकदार the फेलोशिप of the रिंग  , The Two Towers , and The Return of the King .
Structurally , the novel is divided internally into six books , two per  आवाज़ , साथ अनेक appendices  of background material included at the end of the third volume .
The Lord of the Rings has since been  reprinted numerous टाइम्स और अनूदित into अनेक  languages .
Tolkien 's work has been the subject of  extensive विश्लेषण of इसके विषयवस्तु  and origins .
Although a major work in itself , the story was only the last  गति of a larger एपिक tolkien था worked on चूंकि 1917 , in a प्रक्रम he वर्णित  as mythopoeia .
Influences on this earlier work , and on the story of The Lord of the Rings , include philology , mythology ,  धर्म और the लेखक 's distaste लिये the प्रभाव of industrialization , as खूब as पहले काल्पनिक works  and Tolkien 's experiences in World War I .
The Lord of the Rings in  इसके फेरे is माना to have था a ग्रेट प्रभाव on आधुनिक काल्पनिक ; the प्रभाव of tolkien 's  works is such that the use of the words `` Tolkienian '' and `` Tolkienesque '' have been recorded in the Oxford English Dictionary .
The enduring popularity of The Lord of the Rings has led to numerous references in popular culture , the founding of many  समाजों by प्रशंसक of tolkien 's works , और the प्रकाशन of अनेक किताबे परिचय tolkien  and his works .
The Lord of the Rings has  प्रेरित , और continues to inspire , कलाकृति , म्यूज़िक , films और टेलीविज़न , वीडियो खेल  , and subsequent literature .
Award-winning adaptations of The  रब of the बजती have महरूम बना लिये रेडियो , थिएटर  , and film .
The following is an  एपीसोड सूची लिये the निकलोडियन  sitcom Drake & Josh .
The  श्रेणी debuted on जनवरी  11 , 2004 .
A TV film  मैरी क्रिसमस , ड्रेक & जोश थी बना  apart from the regular series on December 5 , 2008 .
There are a total of 60 episodes were  उत्पादित spanning चार सीज़न .
Drake Bell ,  जोश पेक , और मिरांडा cosgrove यहूद the तभी अभिनेताओं  to appear in all 60 episodes .
The San Francisco 49ers conduct  प्रशिक्षण शिविर at the टोली 's मुख्यालय और अभ्यास सुविधा in सांता  Clara , California in August 2010 .
The offense is wearing red jerseys  साथ the एक्सेप्शन of क्वार्टरबैक एलेक्स स्मिथ  , who is in a black jersey ; the defense in white .
In the National Football League ,  प्रशिक्षण शिविर refers to the समय पहले  the season commences .
During this time , teams will sometimes congregate  at an बाहर स्थान , प्रायः a विश्वविद्यालयों , to conduct प्रशिक्षण शिविर लिये  at least the first few weeks .
This is  समान to बेसबॉल 's वसन्त  training .
Training camp is used  in अनेक अलग तरीके  .
New players and coaches use it to acclimate  themselves to नई teammates और  systems .
For younger players  , it serves as a काल of मूल्यांकन ; लिये  veterans , it is time to round back into form .
Training camp  is विभाजित into अनेक अलग  components .
The  पहला is scrimmages  .
These are  pseudo-games जहाँ टीमों चलाएं nearly  full games ' worth of plays .
Sometimes , two  अभ्यास सत्र हैं आयोजित on  the same day .
इस अवधारणा is referred to  as two-a-days .
Other parts of training  शिविर शामिल drills , बैठक साथ कोच और अन्य खिलाड़ी at  one 's position , weight training , and pre-season games .
The latter half of training  शिविर लीड सीधे into the प्रदर्शनी ऋतु  .
With  एनएफएल प्रशिक्षण शिविरों starting in late-july , the  biggest concern has been dehydration .
In 2001 ,  मिनेसोटा वाइकिंग्स खिलाड़ी korey stringer died  of a medical condition based from dehydration and heatstroke .
The death of Stringer prompted the NFL  to बदलें उनके प्रशिक्षण नीतियों  .
At each practice , every team  जरूर have the टोली डॉक्टर और प्रशिक्षकों on the फ़ील्ड ; additionally  , an ambulance must be present during practices .
With NFL training  शिविरों शुरूआत in लेट जुलाई , कठोर मौसम  can affect practice and exhibition games .
In 2002 , a  क्लीवलैंड भूरा प्रदर्शनी खेल ended due to बिजली निकट क्लीवलैंड भूरा स्टेडियम , और कठोर  storms have been known to disrupt training camps .
Fans are often able to visit their favorite team 's training camp to catch an early look at the players ; admission to  practices is प्रायः फ़्री or substantially कम महंगी than a खेल टिकट , बनाना प्रशिक्षण शिविर यात्राएँ a लोकप्रिय विकल्प लिये प्रशंसक जो can नहीं attend अनेक खेल due  to financial or other reasons .
NFL teams  प्रायः बेचें कलाकृतियां और concessions at शिविर साइट साथ  with offering activities and events to make training camp a more fan-friendly experience .
In computing , a file system ( or filesystem ) is a type of data store which can be used to  स्टोर , retrieve और अद्यतन a  set of files .
The term could refer to the abstract data structures used to define files , or to the  वास्तविक तन्त्र or फर्मवेयर components कि implement the अमूर्त  ideas .
Some file  प्रणालियों हैं प्रयुक्त on लोकल आंकड़ा भंडार डिवाइस ; अन्य provide संचिका अभिगम  via a network protocol ( e.g . NFS , SMB , or 9P clients ) .
Some file systems are `` virtual '' ,  in कि the `` फाइलें '' supplied हैं computed on निवेदन ( e.g  . procfs ) or are merely a mapping into a different file system used as a backing store .
The file system manages access to both the  सामग्री of फाइलें और the मेटाडेटा परिचय those  files .
It is responsible for  arranging भंडार स्पेस ; विश्वसनीयता , दक्षता , और ट्यूनिंग साथ लिहाज़  to the physical storage medium are important design considerations .
William Howard Taft ( September 15 , 1857 – March 8 , 1930 ) was the  27th अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य ( 1909–1913 ) और बाद the दसवाँ मुख्य  Justice of the United States ( 1921–1930 ) .
He  is the तभी व्यक्ति to have  served in both of these offices .
Before becoming  अध्यक्ष , taft , a रिपब्लिकन , थी चयनित to serve on  the Superior Court of Cincinnati in 1887 .
In  1890 , taft थी नियुक्त solicitor सामान्य of the  United States and in 1891 a judge on the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit .
In 1900 , President  विलियम mckinley नियुक्त taft governor-general  of the Philippines .
In 1904 , President Theodore Roosevelt appointed Taft Secretary of War in an effort  to दूल्हे taft , तब उसके बंद राजनैतिक ally , into उसके handpicked  presidential successor .
Taft assumed a prominent role in problem solving , assuming on  कुछ अवसरों the भूमिका of एक्टिंग सचिव of राज्य  , while declining repeated offers from Roosevelt to serve on the Supreme Court .
Riding a wave of popular support for fellow Republican Roosevelt , Taft  जीती an आसान विजय in उसके 1908 बोली लिये  the presidency .
In his only term , Taft 's domestic  कार्यसूची emphasized trust-busting , सिविल सेवा सुधार , strengthening the अंतरराज्यीय कॉमर्स  Commission , improving the performance of the postal service , and passage of the Sixteenth Amendment .
Abroad , Taft sought to further the  आर्थिक विकास of राष्ट्र in लैटिन अमेरिका और एशिया through `` डालर कूटनीति  `` , and showed decisiveness and restraint in response to revolution in Mexico .
The task-oriented Taft was oblivious to the  राजनैतिक ramifications of उसके निर्णय , प्रायः alienated उसके अपना कुंजी constituencies , और थी overwhelmingly पराजित in उसके  bid for a second term in the presidential election of 1912 .
In surveys of presidential scholars , Taft is  प्रायः क्रमित निकट the मध्य of सूचियाँ of सब  American Presidents .
बाद leaving दफ्तर , taft खर्च उसके समय in academia , मध्यस्थता  , and the search for world peace through his self-founded League to Enforce Peace .
In 1921 , after  the पहला संसार युद्ध , अध्यक्ष वारेन G. हार्डिंग नियुक्त taft  Chief Justice of the United States .
Taft served in this capacity until shortly  पहले उसके मौत in 1930  .
The Ten  आयतें is a 1956 एपिक फिल्मी उत्पादित और निर्देशित by सेसिल B. demille कि dramatized the biblical  story of the Exodus , in which the Hebrew-born Moses , an adopted Egyptian prince , becomes the deliverer of the Hebrew slaves .
It starred Charlton Heston in the  सीसे भूमिका , yul brynner as उसके adoptive bhai , pharaoh rameses ii , ऐनी बैक्सटर as  Nefretiri , Edward G. Robinson as Dathan , Yvonne De Carlo as Sephora , Debra Paget as Lilia , and John Derek as Joshua .
the supporting डाल शामिल सर सेड्रिक hardwicke as pharaoh  Seti I , Nina Foch as Bithiah , Martha Scott as Yoshebel , Judith Anderson as Memnet , Vincent Price as Baka , and John Carradine as Aaron .
the फिल्मी थी released by सर्वोपरि तस्वीरें  in VistaVision on October 5 , 1956 .
The Ten Commandments , which DeMille narrated , was  the पिछला फिल्मी कि he निर्देशित  .
He  थी नियत to सीधा the 1958 रीमेक of उसके 1938 फिल्मी  The Buccaneer , but his final illness forced him to relinquish the directing chores to his son-in-law , actor Anthony Quinn .
DeMille had also planned to film the  जीवन of रब baden पावेल , the संस्थापक of the स्काउट गति , साथ दाउद niven  ; this project was never realized .
The Ten Commandments is a  आंशिक रीमेक of demille 's 1923 मूक फिल्मी  .
Some of the  डाल और क्रू of the 1956 संस्करण worked  on the original .
It has since been remade as a  टेलीविज़न miniseries ब्रॉडकास्ट in अप्रैल  2006 .
The Ten Commandments is one of the most  financially कामयाब films कभी बना , grossing over $ 65 लाख  at the U.S. box office .
Adjusting for inflation , this makes  it the छठे highest-grossing फिल्मी domestically , साथ an समायोजित कुल of $ 1,025,730,000  in 2012 .
The box  दफ्तर जालस्थल ``  The Numbers '' lists the domestic gross at $ 80 million .
In 1999 , The Ten Commandments was selected for preservation in the United States  नेशनल फिल्मी रजिस्ट्री by the पुस्तकालयों of कॉंग्रेस as होने `` culturally , historically , or aesthetically  significant '' .
In June 2008 , the  अमरीकी फिल्मी संस्थान नाज़िल इसके `` टेन शीर्ष टेन `` —the बेहतरीन टेन films in टेन अमरीकी फिल्मी genres—after  polling over 1,500 people from the creative community .
the टेन आयतें थी सूचीबद्ध as  the tenth best film in the epic genre .
The film received seven Academy Award  nominations सहित बेहतरीन चित्र , और जीती the अकादमी  Award for Best Visual Effects .
Charlton Heston was nominated  लिये a सुनहरी ग्लोब पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन गति चित्र कर्ता  in the drama category .
Yul Brynner won the National Board of Review Award for Best Actor for  उसके भूमिका as rameses , साथ साथ उसके अन्य भूमिकाएँ in the किंग और  I and Anastasia .
Louisville ( , or ) is a major city and the largest city in the U.S. state  of केंटकी और the काउंटी सीट of  Jefferson County .
Since  2003 , the नगर 's सीमायें have महरूम साथ those of the  county because of a city-county merger .
The city 's total consolidated population at the 2010 census was 741,096 ( Louisville 's balance total , 602,011 , excludes  semi-autonomous कस्बों और is the जनसांख्यिकी सूचीबद्ध in सबसे  sources and national rankings ) .
As of 2010 , the Louisville  महानगर क्षेत्रफल ( एमएसए ) था a जनसांख्यिकी of 1,307,647 रैंकिंग  42nd nationally .
The metro area includes Louisville-Jefferson  काउंटी और 12 surrounding काउंटी , आठ in केंटकी और चार in दक्षिणी इंडियाना ( देखिए  Geography below ) .
The Louisville Combined Statistical Area , having a population  of 1,451,564 , शामिल the एमएसए , hardin काउंटी और larue  County in Kentucky , and Scott County , Indiana .
An important internal shipping port in the 19th century ,  louisville आज is बेहतरीन ज्ञात as the स्थान of the केंटकी डर्बी , the पहला of  three annual thoroughbred horse races making up the Triple Crown .
A  ठेठ प्रायोगिक सेटअप  for an aldol reaction .
Both flasks are submerged in a dry ice/acetone cooling bath ( −78 °C )  the तापमान of जिससे is होने monitored by a तापयुग्म ( the तार on  the left ) .
A cooling bath , in laboratory chemistry ( often but not always organic chemistry )  अभ्यास , is a द्रव मिश्रण जिससे is प्रयुक्त to maintain कम temperatures , typically between 13 °c  and −196 °C .
These low temperatures are used  to collect liquids बाद आसवन , to हटाएँ सॉल्वैंट्स using a रोटरी evaporator  , or to perform a chemical reaction below room temperature ( see : kinetic control ) .
Cooling baths are generally one of two types : ( a ) a cold fluid ( particularly liquid nitrogen , water , or even air ) — but most commonly the term refers to ( b )  a मिश्रण of 3 components : ( 1 ) a कूलिंग एजेंट ( ऐसे as शुष्क बर्फ or जल बर्फ ) ; ( b ) a द्रव 'कैरीr ' ( ऐसे as द्रव जल , एथिलीन ग्लाइकोल , एसीटोन , इत्यादि . ) , जिससे हस्तांतरण ऊष्मा between the नहाना  and the vessel ; ; and ( c ) an additive to depress the melting-point of the solid/liquid system .
( A  परिचित उदाहरण of इस is the  use of an ice/rock-salt mixture to freeze ice cream .
The phase-change of  बर्फ into द्रव जल requires उर्जा , 'pulling '  heat from the system .
adding नमक lowers the अस्थायी at जिससे  this happens , meaning more energy has to be absorbed from the environment in order to melt the ice .
इस effectively makes the बर्फ  'colder ' — it must 'pull ' more heat from its environment to become liquid . )
Eating disorders are conditions defined by abnormal eating habits that may involve either insufficient or  excessive खाना सेवन to the detriment of an व्यक्तिगत 's शारीरिक और  mental health .
Bulimia nervosa and anorexia  नर्वोज़ा हैं the सबसे आम विशिष्ट फ़ॉर्म  in the United Kingdom .
Other types of  खाने विकार शामिल binge खाने विकार  and eating disorder not otherwise specified .
bulimia नर्वोज़ा is a विकार characterized  by binge eating and purging .
Purging can  शामिल self-induce उल्टी , over-exercising  , and the usage of diuretics , enemas , and laxatives .
Anorexia  नर्वोज़ा is characterized by चरम खाना प्रतिबंध to the पाइंट  of self-starvation and excessive weight loss .
हालांकि primarily विचार of as affecting महिलाओं ( an अनुमानित 5–10 लाख  being affected in the U.K. ) , eating disorders affect males as well .
An  अनुमानित 10 – 15 % of लोगों साथ खाने विकार  are males ( Gorgan , 1999 ) .
( an estimated 1  लाख u.K. males होने प्रभावित  ) .
Although eating disorders are increasing all over  the संसार among दोनो मेन और महिलाओं , वहीँ is प्रमाण to सुझाएँ कि it is महिलाओं in the पश्चिमी  world who are at the highest risk of developing them and the degree of westernization increases the risk .
nearly हाफ of सब अमेरिकी  personally know someone with an eating disorder .
The skill to comprehend the central processes of  भूख रै increased tremendously चूंकि लेप्टिन थी खोजा , और the कौशल to observe the  functions of the brain as well .
Interactions between  प्रेरक , homeostatic और self-regulatory कंट्रोल प्रक्रियाओं हैं  involved in eating behaviour , which is a key component in eating disorders .
The precise cause of eating disorders is not entirely understood , but there is  प्रमाण कि it may be linked to अन्य चिकित्सा शर्तें और परिस्थितियों .
Cultural idealization of thinness and  youthfulness have contributed to खाने विकार  affecting diverse populations .
One study showed that girls with ADHD have a greater chance of  getting an खाने विकार than those नहीं प्रभावित  by ADHD .
Another study suggested that  महिलाओं साथ ptsd , विशेषकर due to sexually सम्बन्धित आघात , हैं अधिक संभावित to develop एनोरेक्सिया  nervosa .
One study showed that foster girls are more  संभावित to develop bulimia  nervosa .
Some think that peer pressure and  idealized body-types देखी in the मीडिया हैं भी a significant  factor .
Some research show that for certain people there  हैं जेनेटिक कारण क्यों वे may be prone to विकासशील an खाने  disorder .
Recent studies have found evidence a correlation between patients  साथ bulimia नर्वोज़ा और पदार्थ उपयोग  disorders .
In addition ,  चिंता विकार और व्यक्तित्व विकार  are common occurrences with clients of eating disorders .
While proper treatment can be highly effective for many suffering from specific  प्रकार of खाने विकार , the consequences of खाने विकार can be कठोर , सहित मौत ( whether इससे सीधा चिकित्सा प्रभाव of अशांत खाने  habits or from comorbid conditions such as suicidal thinking ) .
Slavery in the United States existed from the  जल्दी सालो of the औपनिवेशिक काल ; it थी firmly स्थापित by the समय the संयुक्त राज्य sought  independence from Great Britain in 1776 .
However , by 1804 , all states north of the Mason and Dixon Line  था either abolished गुलामी outright or passed कानून  for the gradual abolition of slavery .
In 1787 Congress  निषिद्ध गुलामी in the उत्तरपश्चिम  Territory .
But slavery  gained नई जीवन in the दक्षिण  with the cotton industry after 1800 , and expanded into the Southwest .
The nation was polarized into slave and free  राज्य साथ the mason-dixon लकीर ,  which separated Pennsylvania and Maryland .
The United States and Great Britain both prohibited the international slave trade in 1808 , but the domestic trade , with sales to the Deep South , expanded dramatically  , और अनेक captives यहूद shipped by the coastwise स्लेव  trade .
पहले the 1840s , the दक्षिण थी vigorously defending  slavery and its expansion into the territories .
In the  उत्तर कुछ abolitionists denounced it as गुनाहगार , और numerous  anti-slavery forces rejected it as detrimental to the rights of free men .
बाद विफल compromises और अब्राहम lincoln 's चुनाव , in 1861 ग्यारह स्लेव राज्य  broke away to form the Confederate States of America , leading to the American Civil War .
The federal government  in 1862 बना abolition of गुलामी a  war goal .
In January 1863 President Lincoln freed  स्लेव in the confederacy through  the Emancipation Proclamation .
After the war ,  the तेरहवीं amendment , प्रभावी दिसम्बर 1865 , abolished गुलामी  throughout the entire United States , including the Border states and the Indian territories .
From the  16th to the 19th सदियां , an अनुमानित 12 लाख africans यहूद shipped as स्लेव  to the Americas .
See Slavery in  the americas  .
The  ग्रेट बहुमत गई to the शुगर बागानों of the  West Indies or Brazil , where mortality was high .
About 645,000 were  brought to कया is अभी the संयुक्त  States .
By the 1860 United States Census , the slave  जनसांख्यिकी in the अमरीकी दक्षिण था grown to चार  million .
Of all 1,515,605  परिवारों in the 15 स्लेव राज्य , nearly 400,000 आयोजित स्लेव ( roughly  one in four ) , amounting to 8 % of all American families .
While some slaves  worked as हाउस बन्दों और शहरी शिल्पकार , the ग्रेट बहुमत worked on बागानों  or large farms , cultivating lucrative cash crops , such as rice , tobacco , sugar and , after 1800 , chiefly cotton .
By 1860 most slaves were held in  the गहन दक्षिण , जहाँ वे परोसा in work-gangs  ; two-thirds worked in cotton .
In small operations  , वे worked साथ उनके स्वामी  .
In large plantations they were  निर्देशित by श्वेत सशुल्क overseers  .
Under the system that became  chattel गुलामी ( स्वामित्व of a इंसान होने , और of his/her वंशजों ) , a जातिगत तत्व थी  fundamental : slaves were blacks of African descent and owned , almost universally , by whites of European descent .
In the 17th century , Virginia , followed by other  दक्षिणी colonies , enacted विधि कि children of स्लेव माताओं  were born into slavery .
Slaves could gain freedom only by running away (  जिससे थी मुश्किल और illegal to do ) , or by manumission by स्वामी , जिससे थी regulated by राज्य , और became increasingly  difficult or prohibited .
In the earliest  era of chattel गुलामी , the colonies भी व्यवस्थित कार्य  by a system of bonded labor known as indentured servitude .
This typically lasted for several years for  दोनो ग़रीब europeans और africans alike , to अदा बंद the लागत  of transport to the colonies .
They contracted for  ऐसे इंतजाम क्युकी of ग़रीब  economies in their home countries .
Between  1680 और 1700 , as कम europeans migrated  to the colonies , planters began to import more Africans as slaves .
Recognizing the importance of slavery , the  हाउस of burgesses in वर्जिनिया enacted a  new slave code in 1705 ; it combined a variety of legislation and added new provisions enforcing white supremacy in the law .
Schematic cross  खण्ड of भाग of पत्ता , जाइलम  shown as red circles at figure 8 .
Xylem is  एक of the दो प्रकार of हस्तांतरण ऊतक in vascular  plants ( phloem is the other ) .
The word xylem is derived from  the यूनानी शब्द ξύλον ( xylon ) , अर्थ `` लकडी '' ; the best-known जाइलम  tissue is wood , though it is found throughout the plant .
Its basic  फलन is to हस्तांतरण जल , लकिन it भी transports कुछ nutrients  through the plant .
This  क्लॉक प्रतिनिधित्व shows कुछ of the प्रमुख इकाई  of geological time and definitive events of Earth history .
The Hadean eon  represents the समय पहले चट्टान रिकार्ड of जीवन on धरती ; इसके अपर boundary is अभी  regarded as 4.0 Ga ( billion years ago ) .
Other subdivisions reflect the evolution of life ; the Archean and Proterozoic are both eons ,  the palaeozoic , mesozoic और cenozoic हैं eras of the phanerozoic  eon .
The two million year  quaternary काल , the समय of recognizable इंसानो  , is too small to be visible at this scale .
The geologic time scale is a system of chronological measurement that relates stratigraphy to time , and is used by geologists , paleontologists , and other  धरती वैज्ञानिकों to describe the समय और संबंध between कार्यक्रम कि have occurred throughout  Earth 's history .
The table of geologic time spans presented here  agrees साथ the तिथियाँ और नामकरण नियत forth by the अंतरराष्ट्रीय आयोग on स्तरिकी मानक रंग  codes of the International Commission on Stratigraphy .
Evidence from radiometric dating  indicates कि the धरती is परिचय 4.54  billion years old .
The geology or deep time of Earth 's past has been organized into various units according to  कार्यक्रम जिससे took प्लेस in प्रत्येक  period .
Different spans of time on the GTS are usually delimited by  परिवर्तन in the संयोजन of strata जिससे correspond to उन्हें , indicating प्रमुख geological or paleontological  events , such as mass extinctions .
For example , the boundary between the Cretaceous  काल और the paleogene काल is पारिभाषित by the cretaceous–paleogene extinction इवेंट , जिससे चिह्नित the  demise of the dinosaurs and many other groups of life .
Older time spans which predate the reliable fossil record (  पहले the proterozoic इओन ) हैं पारिभाषित by निरपेक्ष  age .
The TI-82 is a  graphing परिपथ बना by  Texas Instruments .
The TI-82 was designed in 1993 as a  stripped bas , अधिक उपयोक्ता दोस्ताना संस्करण of the ti-85 , और as a  replacement for the TI-81 .
It was the direct  पूर्ववर्ती of the ti-83  .
It shares with the TI-85 a 6 MHz  zilog z80 माइक्रोप्रोसेसर  .
Like the TI-81 , the TI-82 features a 96x64  पिक्सेल प्रदर्शक , और the कोर विशेषता नियत of the  TI-81 with many new features .
The cast of  वर्ण of the किंग of सेनानी  XI .
The King of Fighters fighting game series ,  उत्पादित by snk playmore , शामिल a चौड़ी डाल of वर्ण , कुछ of जिससे हैं  taken from other SNK games .
The story takes  प्लेस in a fictional ब्रह्मांड in जिससे an सालाना श्रेणी of 3-on-3  or 4-on-4 fighting tournaments are held .
The first game in the series introduces  the आरंभिक प्रमुख अक्षर of the श्रेणी , kyo kusanagi , a यंग जापानी सेनानी जो is the वारिस to  a powerful group of martial artists having pyrokinetic abilities .
Kyo fights against the  kusanagi गोत्र 's दुश्मनों , उसके प्रतिद्वंद्वी iori yagami , और the परमेश्वर  Orochi and its human followers , among others .
The first four games in the series revolve about these fights , while The King of Fighters '99 introduces a new story arc , revolving around K ' , a young  man जो seeks to नष्ट the रहस्यमय nests संगठन क्युकी वे kidnapped उसे at an जल्दी आयु और stripped उसे of उसके पास्ट यादें , so कि वे could  force him to be a fighter under their control .
In The King of Fighters 2003 , a new character named Ash Crimson enters the tournament , to steal the powers  of the clans जो sealed the orochi in the पास्ट लिये an अनजान कारण  .
A  नई समूह of antagonists , ज्ञात as those इससे the पास्ट , भी appears in  the series ; they want to obtain Orochi 's power for the purpose of giving it to their unknown master .
The plot and  the वर्ण आए इससे the  Yamata no Orochi legend .
There are also several  वर्ण in the खेल कि हैं parodies  or homages to several popular anime , manga , and films .
Merchandise based on the  वर्ण रै भी महरूम released , सहित  action figures and keychains .
The characters have garnered praise from  अनेक वीडियो खेल publications लिये the विशेषता of उनके  designs and movesets .
Comments focused on the lack of improvements  in कुछ of the वर्ण , लकिन  added that the roster is greatly diverse .
Whale Wars is a weekly American documentary-style reality television series that premiered on November  7 , 2008 on the एनिमल ग्रह केबल  channel .
The program follows Paul Watson , founder of the Sea Shepherd Conservation  समाज , as he और the क्रू सवार उनके विभिन्न बरतन harass  Japanese whalers off the coast of Antarctica .
On January 5 , 2013 , Animal  ग्रह नवीनीकृत the श्रेणी लिये a छठे  season .
The Harpy Eagle ( Harpia harpyja ) is a  neotropical प्रजाति of त्रिभुज .
It is sometimes known as the  अमरीकी harpy त्रिभुज to फर्क it इससे the पापुआई त्रिभुज जिससे is sometimes ज्ञात as the नई  Guinea Harpy Eagle or Papuan Harpy Eagle .
It is the largest and most powerful raptor  मिला in the americas , और among the largest extant प्रजाति  of eagles in the world .
It usually inhabits tropical lowland  rainforests in the अपर ( emergent ) canopy  layer .
Destruction of its natural habitat has seen it vanish from many parts of its former range ,  और it is nearly extirpated in सेंट्रल  America .
Biological classification , or scientific classification in biology , is a method of  वैज्ञानिक taxonomy प्रयुक्त to समूह और categorize जीवों into समूह  such as genus or species .
These groups are  ज्ञात as taxa ( एकवचन  : taxon ) .
Modern biological classification has its root in the work of Carolus  लीनियस , जो grouped प्रजाति according to साझा शारीरिक विशेषताएँ  .
These groupings have since been revised to  improve संगति साथ the darwinian principle of आम  descent .
With the  परिचय of the cladistic विधि in the लेट 20th सदी , phylogenetic taxonomy in जिससे  organisms are grouped based purely on inferred evolutionary relatedness , ignoring morphological similarity , has become common in some areas of biology .
Molecular phylogenetics , which uses DNA sequences as data  , रै भी चलित अनेक हाल revisions और is संभावित  to continue doing so .
biological वर्गीकरण belongs  to the science of biological systematics .
Lennon  's हस्ताक्षर
John Winston Ono Lennon , ( born John Winston Lennon ; 9 October 1940 – 8 December 1980 ) was  an अंग्रेज़ी संगीतकार , सिंगर और songwriter जो रोज़ to विश्वव्यापी कीर्ति as a संस्थापक सदस्य of the बीटल्स , एक of the सबसे  commercially successful and critically acclaimed acts in the history of popular music .
With Paul McCartney , he formed one  of the सबसे मनाये songwriting partnerships  of the 20th century .
Born and raised in Liverpool , as a teenager Lennon became involved in the skiffle  craze ; उसके पहला बैंड , the quarrymen ,  evolved into the Beatles in 1960 .
As the group disintegrated towards  the समाप्त of the दशक , लेनन embarked on a सोलो करियर कि उत्पादित the critically acclaimed एल्बम जॉन lennon/plastic  Ono Band and Imagine , and iconic songs such as `` Give Peace a Chance `` and `` Imagine `` .
After his marriage to Yoko  ओनो in 1969 , he बदला उसके नाम to  John Ono Lennon .
लेनन disengaged खुद इससे the म्यूज़िक कारोबार in 1975 to devote समय to उठाने उसके शिशु बेटे शॉन  , but re-emerged with Ono in 1980 with the new album Double Fantasy .
He  थी murdered तीन सप्ताह बाद इसके  release .
Lennon  नाज़िल a rebellious प्रकृति और acerbic wit  in his music , writing , drawings , on film and in interviews .
Controversial through his political and peace activism , he moved to New York City in 1971 , where his  आलोचना of the वियतनाम युद्ध resulted in a lengthy attempt by रिचर्ड निक्सन 's प्रशासन to निर्वासन उसे , जबकि कुछ of उसके गीतों यहूद अपनाया  as anthems by the anti-war movement .
As of 2012 , Lennon 's solo album sales in the United  राज्य exceed 14 लाख इकाई , और as लेखक , co-writer or यजमान , he is जिम्मेदार लिये 25 number-one  singles on the US Hot 100 chart .
In 2002 , a BBC poll on the 100 Greatest Britons voted him eighth , and in  2008 , रोलिंग स्टोन क्रमित उसे the fifth-greatest सिंगर  of all time .
He was  मरणोपरांत inducted into the songwriters हॉल of कीर्ति in  1987 and into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 1994 .
Statue of  rip वैन winkle in irvington , नई यॉर्क , नहीं  far from `` Sunnyside `` , the home of Washington Irving
`` Rip Van Winkle '' is a  छोटी स्टोरी by अमरीकी लेखक वॉशिंगटन इरविंग  published in 1819 , as well as the name of the story 's fictional protagonist .
Written while Irving was living in Birmingham , England , it  थी भाग of a संग्रहण हकदार the स्केच किताब of geoffrey  Crayon .
Although the story is set in New York 's Catskill  kyu , इरविंग बाद admitted , `` जब i लिखा the स्टोरी  , I had never been on the Catskills . ''
Throughout the  fifty-five साल इतिहास of the ग्रैमी पुरस्कार , अनेक significant  records have been set .
This  पेज तभी शामिल the प्रतिस्पर्धी  awards won by various artists .
This does not include the various special awards that are  प्रस्तुत by the नेशनल अकादमी of रिकॉर्डिंग कला और sciences ऐसे as आजीवन उपलब्धि पुरस्कार , trustees  Awards , Technical Awards or Legend Awards .
The page however does include other  non-performance सम्बन्धित grammys ( ज्ञात as the शिल्प & उत्पादन फ़ील्ड ) कि  may have been presented to the artist ( s ) .
Pee-wee Herman is a  कॉमिक fictional अक्षर निर्मित और portrayed by अमरीकी  comedian Paul Reubens .
He is best known for his two television series  और फिल्मी श्रेणी दौरान the 1980s  .
The childlike Pee-wee Herman  अक्षर विकसित as a स्टेज अधिनियम कि जल्दी led to an  HBO special in 1981 .
As the stage performance gained further  लोकप्रियता , reubens took the अक्षर to गति चित्र साथ  Pee-wee 's Big Adventure in 1985 , toning down the adult innuendo for the appeal of children .
This paved the way for  pee-wee 's playhouse , an एमी पुरस्कार जीतना children  's series that ran on CBS from 1986-1991 .
Another film , Big Top  pee-wee , थी released in 1988 .
Due to negative media attention following a scandal in 1991 , Reubens decided to shelve his  alter अहंकार दौरान the 1990s , और तब धीरे resurrected it दौरान the following  decade .
It was at that  समय कि reubens addressed योजनाएँ to लिखें a  new Pee-wee film , Pee-wee 's Playhouse : The Movie .
In June 2007 , Reubens appeared as Pee-wee Herman for the  पहला समय चूंकि 1991 at स्पाइक tv 's यारों ' चुनाव पुरस्कार  .
That '70s Show is an American television period sitcom that centers on the lives of a group of teenage friends living in the fictional  suburban कस्बा of पाइंट प्लेस , विस्कॉन्सिन , इससे may 17 , 1976 , to दिसम्बर  31 , 1979 .
It debuted on the Fox television network , first airing on August 23 , 1998 ,  कार्यशील लिये आठ लगातार सीज़न , और concluding साथ the  200th episode on May 18 , 2006 .
The main teenage cast members were Topher Grace , Mila Kunis , Ashton Kutcher , Danny  masterson , लौरा prepon , और wilmer valderrama  .
the प्रमुख वयस्क डाल सदस्यों यहूद डेबरा  Jo Rupp , Kurtwood Smith , Don Stark and , during the first three seasons , Tanya Roberts .
Kansas ( ) is a U.S.  राज्य स्तिथ in the midwestern संयुक्त  States .
It is named after the Kansas River which  बहती through it , जिससे in फेरे थी नामित बाद the  Kansa Native American tribe , which inhabited the area .
The tribe 's name ( natively kką : ze ) is often said to mean `` people of the wind '' or `` people  of the दक्षिण हवा , '' हालांकि इस थी संभवतः नहीं the पद 's असली अर्थ  .
Residents of  कान्सास हैं पुकारा `` kansans  . ''
For thousands of years what is now Kansas was home to  numerous और विविध देशी अमरीकी  tribes .
जनजातियों in the पूर्वी भाग of the  state generally lived in villages along the river valleys .
Tribes in the Western  भाग of the राज्य यहूद सेमi- nomadic और hunted  large herds of bison .
Kansas was first settled by European Americans in the  1830s , लकिन the pace of उपनिवेश त्वरित in the 1850s  , in the midst of political wars over the slavery issue .
When officially opened to settlement by the U.S. government in 1854 , abolitionist Free-Staters from New England and  pro-slavery settlers इससे neighboring मिसौरी rushed to the territory to determine if कान्सास होता become a फ़्री राज्य or a स्लेव राज्य  .
Thus , the  क्षेत्रफल थी a hotbed of हिंसा और अराजकता in इसके जल्दी दिनों as ये शक्तियां  collided , and was known as Bleeding Kansas .
the abolitionists आखिरकार prevailed  and on January 29 , 1861 , Kansas entered the Union as a free state .
After the Civil War , the population of Kansas grew  rapidly , जब लहरें of आप्रवासियों turned the  prairie into farmland .
Today , Kansas  is एक of the सबसे उत्पादक agricultural राज्य ,  producing high yields of wheat , sorghum and sunflowers .
कान्सास is the 15th सबसे extensive और the 33rd सबसे  populous of the 50 United States .
Psychology  is an अकादमिक और लागू अनुशासन कि involves  the scientific study of mental functions and behaviors .
Psychology has the immediate goal of understanding individuals and groups by both establishing general principles and  researching विशिष्ट मामले , और by अनेक खाते it ultimately  aims to benefit society .
In this field , a professional or  शोधकर्ता is पुकारा a मनोवैज्ञानिक और can be वर्गीकृत as a सोशल , behavioral  , or cognitive scientist .
Psychologists  attempt to समझे the भूमिका of दिमागी कृत्यों in व्यक्तिगत और सोशल बर्ताव , जबकि भी  exploring the physiological and neurobiological processes that underlie certain cognitive functions and behaviors .
Psychologists explore concepts such as perception , cognition , attention  , जज्बात , phenomenology , प्रेरणा , दिमाग कामकाज , व्यक्तित्व , बर्ताव  , and interpersonal relationships .
Psychologists of diverse  धारियाँ भी consider the बेहोश  mind .
Psychologists employ empirical methods to infer  causal और correlational संबंध between psychosocial परिवर्तनीय  .
In addition , or in opposition , to employing empirical and deductive methods ,  some—especially नैदानिक और counseling psychologists—at टाइम्स rely upon सांकेतिक निर्वचन  and other inductive techniques .
Psychology has been described as a `` hub science '' , with  मनोवैज्ञानिक निष्कर्षों linking to शोध और perspectives इससे the सोशल sciences , प्राकृतिक sciences , आयुर्विज्ञान  , and the humanities , such as philosophy .
While  मनोवैज्ञानिक ज्ञान is प्रायः लागू to the मूल्यांकन और उपचार  of mental health problems , it is also directed towards understanding and solving problems in many different spheres of human activity .
The majority of psychologists are involved in some kind of  therapeutic भूमिका , practicing in नैदानिक , counseling , or स्कूल  settings .
Many do scientific research on a wide range of topics related to mental processes and behavior  , और typically कार्य in विश्वविद्यालयों मनोविज्ञान विभाग or सिखा in अन्य अकादमिक जमावट ( e.g. , चिकित्सा  schools , hospitals ) .
Some are employed in industrial and organizational settings , or in other areas such as human development and aging ,  खेल , स्वास्थ्य , और the मीडिया , as खूब as in forensic छानबीन और अन्य पहलुओं  of law .
Thomas Jefferson ( April 13 , 1743 ( April 2 , 1743 O.S. ) – July 4 ,  1826 ) थी an अमरीकी founding पिता , the प्रिंसिपल लेखक of the घोषणा of स्वतंत्रता ( 1776 )  and the third President of the United States ( 1801–1809 ) .
At the beginning of the American Revolution , he served in the Continental Congress ,  representing वर्जिनिया और तब परोसा as a wartime राज्यपाल of वर्जिनिया ( 1779–1781  ) .
Just after the war  ended , इससे mid-1784 जेफरसन परोसा as a राजनयिक  , stationed in Paris .
In May 1785 , he  became the संयुक्त राज्य  Minister to France .
Jefferson was the first United States  सचिव of राज्य ( 1790–1793 ) सेवारत अंतर्गत अध्यक्ष  George Washington .
With his close  dost जेम्स मैडिसन he व्यवस्थित the democratic-republican पार्टी , और subsequently resigned  from Washington 's cabinet .
Elected Vice President in 1796 , when he came in second to John Adams of  the federalists , जेफरसन opposed एडम्स और साथ मैडिसन secretly लिखा the केंटकी और वर्जिनिया रिज़ॉल्यूशन , जिससे attempted  to nullify the Alien and Sedition Acts .
Elected president in what  जेफरसन पुकारा the क्रान्ति of 1800 , he oversaw the खरीदें of the  vast Louisiana Territory from France ( 1803 ) , and sent the Lewis and Clark Expedition ( 1804–1806 ) to explore the new west .
His second term was beset with troubles at home , such as the  विफल देशद्रोह विचारण of उसके पूर्व वाइस अध्यक्ष  Aaron Burr .
With escalating  ट्रबल साथ ब्रिटेन जो थी चुनौतीपूर्ण अमरीकी neutrality और threatening  shipping at sea , he tried economic warfare with his embargo laws which only damaged American trade .
In 1803 , President Jefferson initiated a process of Indian  जनजातीय हटाना और relocation to the louisiana territory वेस्ट of the मिसिसिपी नदी , in अनुक्रम  to open lands for eventual American settlers .
A leader in the Enlightenment , Jefferson was a  बहुश्रुत जो spoke पाँच भाषाएं धड़ल्ले और थी deeply दिलचस्पी in विज्ञान , आविष्कार , वास्तुकला , धर्म और दर्शनशास्त्र  , interests that led him to the founding of the University of Virginia after his presidency .
He designed his own large mansion  on a 5,000 एकड़ वृक्षारोपण निकट charlottesville ,  Virginia , which he named Monticello .
While  नहीं a notable orator , जेफरसन थी  a skilled writer and corresponded with many influential people in America and Europe throughout his adult life .
हालांकि जेफरसन स्वामित्व अनेक स्लेव , he opposed the संस्था सब उसके जीवन और  consequently treated and took care of them very well and expected them to work no more than free farmers .
चूंकि 1802 इतिहासकारों और अन्य have महरूम विभाजित over the विवाद of whether जेफरसन  was the father of one or more children belonging to Sally Hemings , a slave at Monticello . ''
Historians are also in  असहमति साथ कैसा much जेफरसन थी वचनबद्ध to the  anti-slavery cause .
In 1807 , President Jefferson signed into law a  विधेयक कि बैन the importation of स्लेव into  the United States .
After Martha  जेफरसन , उसके बीवी of ग्यारह सालो , died in 1782 , जेफरसन remained a विधुर लिये the बाकी of उसके जीवन ; उनके विवाह उत्पादित छह  children , of whom two survived to adulthood .
Though Jefferson has been criticized by many modern day scholars over the issue of slavery , he  remains रेटेड as एक of the महानतम u.S. राष्ट्रपतियों  .
`` Sun City '' is a 1985 protest song written  by स्टीवन वैन zandt , उत्पादित by वैन zandt और आर्थर  Baker and recorded by Artists United Against Apartheid to convey opposition to the South African policy of apartheid .
The primary means of that opposition is to declare that all the artists involved would refuse any and all offers to perform at Sun City , a resort  जिससे थी स्तिथ in bantustan of bophuthatswana , एक of a क्रमांक of internationally अपरिचित supposed `` स्वतंत्र '' राज्य निर्मित by the दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी सरकारी to forcibly  relocate its black population .
This page is  a सूची of वर्ण in the पुलिस अकादमी फिल्मी और टेलीविज़न  series .
Bill Russell won 11 championships  साथ the बोस्टन सेल्टिक्स  .
This is a list of NBA players  साथ सबसे championships जीती as  a player .
The National  बास्केट संघ ( एनबीए ) is a प्रमुख पेशेवर बास्केट  league in North America .
It was founded in 1946 as the  बास्केट संघ of अमेरिका  ( BAA ) .
The league adopted  इसके वर्तमान नाम at the प्रारंभ of  the when it merged with the National Basketball League ( NBL ) .
The NBA  फाइनल is the चैंपियनशिप श्रेणी लिये the एनबीए  and the conclusion of the sport 's postseason .
The winning team of the  श्रेणी receives the लैरी o'brien चैंपियनशिप  Trophy .
Players from the winning team usually receive championship  बजती इससे the टोली honoring उनके योगदान  .
However , in some rare occasion ,  the टीमों opted to दिया अन्य commemorative  items , such as wrist watches , instead of rings .
The number of championships won by NBA  सुपरस्टार is प्रायः प्रयुक्त as a मापन of उनके विशालता  .
Boston Celtics center Bill Russell holds the record for the  सबसे एनबीए championships जीती साथ 11 शीर्षक दौरान  his 13-year playing career .
He won his first  चैंपियनशिप साथ the बोस्टन सेल्टिक्स  in his rookie year .
Afterwards , he went on to win 10 championships in the next 12  सालो , सहित आठ लगातार  championships from 1959 to 1966 .
He won the  पिछला दो championships  in 1968 and 1969 as player-coach .
Russell 's teammate , Sam  जोन्स , जीती 10 championships इससे 1959  to 1969 , the second most in NBA history .
Four Celtics players , Tom Heinsohn , K. C.  जोन्स , satch सैंडर्स और जॉन havlicek , जीती आठ championships  each .
Two other Celtics , Jim  loscutoff और फ़्रैंक रैमसे , जीती सात  championships each .
Four players , Bob Cousy , Kareem  abdul-jabbar , माइकल जॉर्डन और scottie pippen , जीती  six championships each .
Jordan and Pippen  हैं सदस्यों of the शिकागो bulls टोली  who won three consecutive championships twice in the 1990s .
Robert Horry  और जॉन salley हैं the तभी खिलाड़ी to have जीती  the championships with three different teams .
Horry won seven championships with the Houston Rockets , the Los Angeles Lakers and the San Antonio Spurs ,  जबकि salley जीती चार championships साथ the डेट्रॉयट पिस्टन्स , the bulls और the लेकर्स .
Frank Saul and  स्टीव केर हैं the तभी खिलाड़ी to जीत दो championships  with two different teams in consecutive seasons .
Saul won  लगातार championships साथ the रोचेस्टर रॉयल्स और the मिनियापोलिस  Lakers in the 1950s , while Kerr won consecutive championships with the Bulls and the Spurs in the 1990s,
Accuracy indicates proximity of  मापन परिणाम to the सच्चा मान , परिशुद्धता to the  repeatability , or reproducibility of the measurement
In the fields of science , engineering , industry , and statistics , the accuracy of a measurement  प्रणाली is the उपाधि of निकटता of माप of a मात्रा to कि मात्रा 's वास्तविक ( सच्चा  ) value .
The precision of a  मापन प्रणाली , भी पुकारा reproducibility or repeatability , is  the degree to which repeated measurements under unchanged conditions show the same results .
Although the two words reproducibility and repeatability can be synonymous  in colloquial उपयोग , वे हैं deliberately  contrasted in the context of the scientific method .
A measurement system can be accurate  लकिन नहीं precise , precise लकिन नहीं सटीक , neither , or  both .
For example  , if an प्रयोग contains a व्यवस्थित गलती , तब increasing the  sample size generally increases precision but does not improve accuracy .
The result would be a consistent yet inaccurate  स्ट्रिंग of परिणाम  from the flawed experiment .
Eliminating the  व्यवस्थित गलती improves सटीकता  but does not change precision .
A  मापन प्रणाली is designated मान्य if it is  both accurate and precise .
Related terms include bias ( non- random or directed  प्रभाव caused by a फ़ैक्टर or कारकों unrelated to the स्वतंत्र  variable ) and error ( random variability ) .
The terminology is also applied to  अप्रत्यक्ष measurements—that is , मान प्राप्त  by a computational procedure from observed data .
In addition  to सटीकता और परिशुद्धता , माप may भी  have a measurement resolution , which is the smallest change in the underlying physical quantity that produces a response in the measurement .
In the case of full reproducibility , such as when rounding a number to a  representable फ्लोटिंग पाइंट क्रमांक , the शब्द परिशुद्धता रै a  meaning not related to reproducibility .
For  उदाहरण , in the आईईईई 754-2008 मानक it अर्थात् the क्रमांक of बिट्स in the significand , so it is प्रयुक्त  as a measure for the relative accuracy with which an arbitrary number can be represented .
Fuck in its literal  अर्थ refers to the अधिनियम of यौन मैथुन  .
It is an English  शब्द कि is प्रायः प्रयुक्त as a profanity , either to denote  disdain or as an intensifier .
The origin of  the शब्द is  obscure .
It is usually  माना to be पहला attested to around 1475  , but it may be considerably older .
In modern usage , fuck and its derivatives ( such as fucker  और fucking ) can be प्रयुक्त in the स्थिति of a संज्ञा , a क्रिया , an क्रियाशील or  an adverb .
There are many common phrases which make use of the word  , as खूब as a क्रमांक of यौगिकों incorporating it , ऐसे as motherfucker  .
Animated ,  color-coded मैप प्रर्दशित the विभिन्न  continents and regions .
Depending on the convention and model , some continents may be consolidated or subdivided : for example , Eurasia is most often subdivided into  यूरोपीय और एशिया ( रेड शेड्स ) , जबकि उत्तर और दक्षिण अमेरिका हैं sometimes पहचाना  as one American continent ( green shades ) .
A  महाद्वीप is एक of अनेक बहुत  large landmasses on Earth .
They are generally identified by convention rather than any strict  मापदण्ड , साथ up to सात regions commonly regarded as continents—they  are ( from largest in size to smallest ) : Asia , Africa , North America , South America , Antarctica , Europe , and Australia .
In geology ,  महाद्वीपों हैं वर्णित by  means of tectonic plates .
Plate  विवर्तनिकी is the प्रक्रम और पढ़ाई of the गति  , collision and division of continents , earlier known as continental drift .
Biker Boyz is a 2003 film about a group of  भूमिगत मोटरसाइकिल खीचें racers  .
It stars Laurence Fishburne , Djimon  hounsou , डेरेक ल्यूक , meagan शुभ , और larenz टेट और is लिखा और निर्देशित by reggie  Rock Bythewood .
It also  सुविधाएँ लिसा bonet , ऑरलैंडो जोन्स , बच्चा चट्टान और वैनेसा  Bell Calloway .
For the Steel  पैंथर सोंग , देखिए  Feel the Steel .
जातियाँ प्रॉपर्टी is a वैवाहिक प्रॉपर्टी शासन कि originated  in civil law jurisdictions and is now also found in some common law jurisdictions .
The states of the United States that recognize community property are primarily in the West ; it was inherited from Mexico 's ganancial community system , which  itself थी inherited इससे स्पेनी विधि ( a रोमन -derived सिविल विधि प्रणाली ) और ultimately इससे the  Visigoths .
While under Spanish rule  louisiana अपनाया the ganancial जातियाँ प्रणाली of acquests और gains , जिससे replaced the परंपरागत फ्रेंच  community of movables and acquests in its civil law system .
मैप of the संयुक्त राज्य  with community property states highlighted in red .
In addition to the highlighted states , Alaska is a  पृथक प्रॉपर्टी राज्य कि permits युगल to ऑप्ट into a जातियाँ प्रॉपर्टी  arrangement .
In a community  प्रॉपर्टी क्षेत्राधिकार , सबसे प्रॉपर्टी acquired दौरान the विवाह ( मगर लिये उपहार or inheritances ) —the जातियाँ ,  or communio bonorum—is owned jointly by both spouses and is divided upon divorce , annulment or death .
Joint ownership is automatically presumed by law in the absence of specific  प्रमाण कि होता पाइंट to a contrary निष्कर्ष लिये a particular  piece of property .
प्रभाग of जातियाँ प्रॉपर्टी may लो प्लेस  by item , by splitting all items or by value .
In some jurisdictions , such as  कैलिफ़ोर्निया , a 50/50 प्रभाग of जातियाँ प्रॉपर्टी is सख्ती mandated by statute , अर्थ कि the फ़ोकस तब  shifts to whether particular items are to be classified as community or separate property .
In other jurisdictions , such as Texas , a divorce court may decree an ``  निष्पक्ष वितरण `` of जातियाँ प्रॉपर्टी , जिससे may परिणाम in an गैरबराबरी प्रभाग of  such .
In non-community  प्रॉपर्टी राज्य प्रॉपर्टी may be विभाजित  by equitable distribution .
Generally  बोलना , the प्रॉपर्टी कि प्रत्येक संगी brings into the विवाह or  receives by gift , bequest or devise during marriage is called separate property ( i.e. , not community property ) .
See  प्रभाग of प्रॉपर्टी  .
प्रभाग of जातियाँ debts may नहीं  be the same as division of community property .
For example , in California , community property is  जरूरी to be विभाजित `` बराबर '' जबकि जातियाँ कर्ज़ is  required to be divided `` equitably '' .
Property that is owned by one spouse before the  विवाह is the पृथक प्रॉपर्टी of कि जीवनसाथी , जबतक the प्रॉपर्टी is `` transmuted '' into जातियाँ  property .
the नियम लिये इस  vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction .
The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge waving to  the भीड at the मॉल shortly बाद  the wedding .
The wedding of Prince William , Duke of Cambridge , and Catherine  मिडलटन took प्लेस on 29 अप्रैल 2011 at वेस्टमिंस्टर ऐबी  in London .
The groom , Prince William , Duke of Cambridge , is the eldest son of Charles , Prince of Wales , and is second in the  लकीर of उत्तराधिकार to the अंग्रेजों सिंहासन और the तख्तों of पंद्रह अन्य  Commonwealth realms .
The bride , Catherine `` Kate '' Middleton is  the ज्येष्ठ of तीन children of माइकल और carole मिडलटन of bucklebury  , Berkshire .
The Dean of Westminster , John Hall ,  presided at the सेवा ; the archbishop of canterbury , rowan विलियम्स , conducted the विवाह ; रिचर्ड chartres , the बिशप  of London , preached the sermon ; and a reading was given by the bride 's brother , James .
विलियम 's बेहतरीन man थी उसके bhai , प्रिंस हैरी , जबकि the बहू  's sister , Pippa , was maid of honour .
The ceremony was attended by the bride  's और दूल्हे 's परिवारों , as खूब as अनेक विदेशी रॉयल्स ,  diplomats , and the couple 's chosen personal guests .
After the ceremony , the couple  बना the परंपरागत रूप on the बालकनी  of Buckingham Palace .
As Prince William was  नहीं the वारिस apparent to the सिंहासन , the विवाह थी नहीं a पूरा राज्य अवसर और अनेक विवरण  were left to the couple to decide , such as much of the guest list of about 1,900 .
Prince  विलियम और केट मिडलटन मिले  in 2001 .
Their engagement on  20 अक्तूबर 2010 थी घोषित on 16 नवम्बर  2010 .
The build-up to the wedding and the occasion itself attracted much  मीडिया ध्यान , होने compared in अनेक तरीके साथ the 1981 विवाह  of William 's parents .
The occasion was a public holiday in the United Kingdom and  प्रदर्शित अनेक ceremonial पहलुओं , सहित उपयोग of the राज्य carriages और भूमिकाएँ लिये the पैर गार्ड और  Household Cavalry .
Events were held around the Commonwealth to mark the wedding ; organisations and hotels held events  आरपार कनाडा , over 5,000 गली पार्टियों यहूद आयोजित throughout the संयुक्त किंगडम , और एक लाख लोगों lined the रूट between  Westminster Abbey and Buckingham Palace .
The ceremony  थी viewed सजीव by tens of लाखो अधिक  around the world , including 72 million on the YouTube Royal Channel .
In the United Kingdom ,  टेलीविज़न ऑडियंस peaked at 26.3 लाख दर्शक , साथ a कुल of 36.7  million watching part of the coverage .
Vanessa Joy Lachey (  née minnillo ; born नवम्बर 9 , 1980 ) is an अमरीकी टेलीविज़न  personality , television host , fashion model , and actress .
Minnillo was  भी नामित मिस टीन  USA in 1998 .
She has been a New  यॉर्क -आधारd correspondent लिये entertainment tonight  and hosted Total Request Live on MTV .
A hand ( med . / lat . : manus , pl . manūs ) is a prehensile , multi- fingered extremity located at the end of an arm  or forelimb of primates और इंसानो , chimpanzees , बंदरों , और lemurs  .
a few अन्य vertebrates ऐसे as the कोआला ( जिससे रै दो opposable thumbs on प्रत्येक `` हाथ '' और फिंगरप्रिंट  remarkably similar to human fingerprints ) are often described as having either `` hands '' or `` paws '' on their front limbs .
Hands are the main structures for physically manipulating the environment ,  प्रयुक्त लिये दोनो सकल मोटर कौशल ( ऐसे as grasping a विशाल ऑब्जेक्ट ) और ठीक मोटर कौशल  ( such as picking up a small pebble ) .
The fingertips  contain कुछ of the densest क्षेत्रों of तंत्रिका endings on the देह , हैं the richest सोर्स of  tactile feedback , and have the greatest positioning capability of the body ; thus the sense of touch is intimately associated with hands .
Like other paired organs ( eyes , feet , legs ) , each hand is dominantly  नियंत्रित by the opposing दिमाग गोलार्ध , so कि handedness , or the पसन्दीदा हाथ चुनाव लिये single-handed क्रियाएँ  such as writing with a pencil , reflects individual brain functioning .
Some  विकासवादी anatomists उपयोग the पद हाथ to refer to the appendage of अंक on the forelimb अधिक generally — लिये उदाहरण  , in the context of whether the three digits of the bird hand involved the same homologous loss of two digits as in the dinosaur hand .
The human hand has 27 bones , not including  the sesamoid हड्डियों जिससे क्रमांक  varies between people .
14 of which are the phalanges ( proximal ,  इंटरमीडिएट और distal ) of the उंगलियाँ  .
The metacarpals are the  हड्डियों कि connects the उंगलियाँ और the  wrist .
प्रत्येक इंसान हाथ  has 5 metacarpals and 8 carpal bones .
too कूल थी a पेशेवर कुश्ती  tag team and former faction most notably active in World Wrestling Federation/Entertainment between 1998 and 2001 and for a short time in 2004 .
मौलिक डिजिटल सचेतक  clock without a radio .
The mark in the top-left of  the प्रदर्शक indicates कि the समय  is 4:00pm , not 4:00am .
A 1969 radio alarm clock ( Sony Digimatic  8fc-59w ) साथ an जल्दी mechanical-digital  display .
A digital clock is a type  of क्लॉक कि प्रदर्शक the समय डिजिटली , i.e . in numerals or अन्य प्रतीकों  , as opposed to an analog clock , where the time is indicated by the positions of rotating hands .
डिजिटल घड़ियाँ हैं प्रायः संबद्ध साथ इलेक्ट्रॉनिक ड्राइव , लकिन  the `` digital '' description refers only to the display , not to the drive mechanism .
( Both analog and digital clocks can be driven either  mechanically or electronically , लकिन `` घटीयंत्र '' mechanisms  with digital displays are rare . )
The biggest digital  क्लॉक is the lichtzeitpegel ( `` लाइट समय स्तर '' ) on the टेलीविज़न  tower Rheinturm Düsseldorf , Germany .
Family Guy creator  सेठ macfarlane भी provides the आवाज़ें of पीटर griffin , stewie griffin  , Brian Griffin , and Glenn Quagmire .
Family Guy is an  अमरीकी एनिमेटेड sitcom कि सुविधाएँ पाँच प्रमुख आवाज़ अभिनेताओं , और numerous नियमित  cast and recurring guest stars .
The  प्रिंसिपल आवाज़ डाल consists of दिखाएँ निर्माता सेठ macfarlane , एलेक्स borstein , सेठ  Green , Mila Kunis ( who replaced Lacey Chabert after the first season ) and Mike Henry and now , the new actor Beau Osborne .
Recurring voice actors include  पैट्रिक warburton , आदम वेस्ट , जॉन G. ब्रेनन , निकोल सुलीवान और जेनिफर tilly , और repeat अतिथि सितारों शामिल फिलिस diller ,  Charles Durning , Rush Limbaugh , and Phil LaMarr .
अनेक डाल सदस्यों provide आवाज़ें  for multiple characters .
The voice actors , in portraying the various character  personalities on the दिखाएँ , चित्रण प्रेरणा इससे हस्तियाँ  and pop culture .
Family Guy  वर्ण have महरूम निभाई by अधिक than एक कर्ता , बाद सदस्यों of  the show left the series or had conflicting obligations .
Kunis was nominated for an Annie Award for voicing Meg Griffin in the season 5 episode  `` मुश्किल विधिक `` और macfarlane रै भी जीती an एमी पुरस्कार लिये बकाया voice-over प्रदर्शन  and an Annie Award for Best Voice Acting in an Animated Television Production , though no other cast member has won an award for their work on the series .
The five sets  of the फलक खेल एकाधिकार चित्रित यहाँ दिखाएँ the  evolution of the game 's artwork and designs in the United States from 1935–2005 .
The history  of the फलक खेल एकाधिकार can be traced वापस to the  early 20th century .
The earliest known  डिज़ाइन थी by the अमरीकी , एलिज़ाबेथ magie , patented in 1904 लकिन  existing as early as 1902 .
Magie 's original intent was to publish a board game to  illustrate an आर्थिक principle , namely the georgist अवधारणा  of a single land value tax .
A series of board games  यहूद विकसित इससे 1906 through the 1930s कि शामिल the खरीदे और selling  of land and the development of that land .
By 1934 , a board game had been created much like the version of Monopoly sold by Parker  भाइयो और इसके सम्बन्धित कंपनियाँ through the  rest of the 20th century , and into the 21st .
Several people , mostly in the Midwestern United States and near  the ईस्ट coast , contributed to the खेल 's डिज़ाइन और एवोल्यूशन  .
By the 1970s , the idea that the game had been created  solely by चार्ल्स darrow था become लोकप्रिय लोकगीत ; it थी मुद्रित in the  game 's instructions for many years , in a 1974 book devoted to Monopoly , and was cited in a general book about toys even as recently as 2007 .
Even a guide to family games published for Reader 's Digest in 2003 only gave credit to Darrow and Elizabeth Magie , erroneously stating that Magie 's  असली खेल थी निर्मित in the 1800s , और नहीं acknowledging कोई of the खेल 's विकास between magie 's सृष्टि of the खेल , और the eventual  publication by Parker Brothers .
Also in the 1970s , Professor Ralph Anspach , who had himself published a board game  intended to illustrate the सिद्धान्त of दोनो monopolies और विश्वास busting , लड़ा पार्कर भाइयो  and its then parent company , General Mills , over the trademarks of the Monopoly board game .
Through the research of Anspach  और अन्य , much of the जल्दी इतिहास of the खेल  was `` rediscovered '' .
Anspach confronted  maxine ब्रैडी , लेखक of the 1974 किताब the एकाधिकार किताब : रणनीति और tactics of the संसार 's सबसे लोकप्रिय खेल over  the actual history of the game on Barry Farber 's New York City talk show in 1975 .
क्युकी of the lengthy अदालत प्रक्रम , सहित appeals , the विधिक  status of Parker Brothers ' trademarks on the game was not settled until 1985 .
The game 's name remains a registered trademark of  पार्कर भाइयो , as do इसके विशिष्ट डिज़ाइन  elements .
At the conclusion of the court case , the game  's लोगो और ग्राफिक डिज़ाइन तत्व became भाग of a larger एकाधिकार ब्रांड , licensed by पार्कर भाइयो  ' parent companies onto a variety of items through the present day .
Despite the `` rediscovery '' of the board game 's early history in the  1970s और 1980s , और अनेक किताबे और जर्नल आलेख on the विषय , हास्ब्रो ( पार्कर भाइयो  ' current parent company ) did not acknowledge any of the game 's history before Charles Darrow on its official Monopoly website as recently as June 2012 .
Nor did Hasbro acknowledge anyone other than Darrow in materials  प्रकाशित or प्रायोजित by उन्हें , at  least as recently as 2006 .
International tournaments , first held  in the जल्दी 1970s , continue to the उपस्थित , साथ the अगला संसार  championship likely scheduled for 2013 .
Starting in  1985 , a नई पीढी of  spin-off board games and card games appeared on both sides of the Atlantic Ocean .
In 1989 ,  the पहला of अनेक वीडियो खेल और कंप्यूटर खेल  editions was published .
Since 1994 , many  आधिकारिक विसंगतियाँ of the खेल , आधारित on स्थितियाँ अन्य than अटलांटिक नगर , नई जर्सी ( the आधिकारिक u.S. सेटिंग ) or लंदन  ( the official Commonwealth setting , excepting Canada ) , have been published by Hasbro or its licensees .
In 2008 , Hasbro permanently changed the color scheme and some of the gameplay of the standard U.S . Edition of the  खेल to मैच the uk संस्करण , हालांकि the u.S. मानक संस्करण maintains  the Atlantic City property names .
Hasbro also modified the official logo to give the `` Mr . Monopoly '' character a 3-D  computer-generated dekh , जिससे रै चूंकि महरूम अपनाया by licensees  USAopoly , Winning Moves and Winning Solutions .
And Hasbro  रै भी महरूम सहित the गति die , introduced in 2006 's एकाधिकार : the आचमन संस्करण by  Winning Moves Games , in versions produced directly by Hasbro ( such as the 2009 Championship Edition ) .
In baseball , a  बलिदान मक्खी is a batted बॉल कि satisfies  four criteria:
वहीँ हैं कम than दो outs जब  the ball is hit .
The ball is hit to the  आउटफील्ड ( मेला or बेईमानी ) , or to infield  foul territory .
The batter is put  आउट क्युकी an outfielder ( or an infielder कार्यशील in the आउटफील्ड , or बेईमानी territory  ) catches the ball on the fly ( alternatively if the batter would have been out if not for an error or if the outfielder drops the ball and another runner is put out ) .
A runner who is  already on आधार स्कोर on the खेल  .
It is called a `` sacrifice '' fly because the batter presumably intends to  कारण a teammate to स्कोर a चलाएं , जबकि sacrificing उसके अपना क्षमता  to do so .
Minnesota  ( ) is a u.S. राज्य स्तिथ in the  Midwestern United States .
Minnesota was carved out of the  पूर्वी हाफ of the मिनेसोटा territory और admitted  to the Union as the 32nd state on May 11 , 1858 .
Known as the `` Land of  10,000 झीलों '' , the राज्य 's नाम आता इससे a डकोटा शब्द  for `` sky-tinted water '' .
Those waters , together  साथ वनों , पार्क , और wilderness क्षेत्रों , प्रस्ताव निवासियों और  tourists a variety of outdoor recreational opportunities .
Minnesota is the 12th most extensive and  the 21st सबसे populous of the u.S.  states .
nearly 60 % of इसके निवासियों सजीव in the minneapolis–saint पॉल महानगर क्षेत्रफल ( ज्ञात as the `` जुड़वा शहरों '' ) , the बीच of परिवहन  , business , industry , education , government and home to an internationally known arts community .
The remainder of the state  consists of पश्चिमी prairies अभी दिए over to intensive कृषि ; पतझड़ी वनों in the southeast , अभी साफ , farmed  and settled ; and the less populated North Woods , used for mining , forestry , and recreation .
Minnesota is known for its relatively mixed social and political orientations , and  रै a ऊँची रेट of नागरिक भागीदारी और वोटर turnout  .
Minnesota  बाँधने among the healthiest राज्य  , and has a highly literate population .
The  विशाल बहुमत of निवासियों हैं of scandinavian  and German descent .
The state is known as a  बीच of scandinavian अमरीकी  culture .
Ethnic  विविधता रै increased in हाल  decades .
substantial influxes of एशियाई , अफ़्रीकी , और लैटिन अमरीकी आप्रवासियों have  joined the descendants of European settlers and the original Native American inhabitants .
अनुदान हैं non-repayable निधि by एक पार्टी ( ग्रान्ट makers ) , प्रायः a सरकारी  department , corporation , foundation or trust , to a , often ( but not always ) a nonprofit entity , educational institution , business or an individual .
In order to receive a grant , some form of `` Grant Writing '' often  referred to as either a प्रस्ताव or an अनुप्रयोग  is usually required .
Most grants are made  to निधि a विशिष्ट प्रोजेक्ट और आवश्यकता  some level of compliance and reporting .
The grant writing process involves an applicant submitting a  प्रस्ताव ( or सबमिशन ) to a संभावित funder , either on the आवेदक 's अपना पहल or in जवाब to a निवेदन  for Proposal from the funder .
Other grants can be given to  individuals , ऐसे as पीड़ितों of प्राकृतिक आपदाओं or individuals  who seek to open a small business .
Sometimes grant  makers आवश्यकता ग्रान्ट जरुरतमंदों to have कुछ रूप of tax-exempt  status , be a registered nonprofit organization or a local government .
For  उदाहरण , tiered funding लिये a फ्रीवे हैं बहुत विशाल अनुदान  negotiated at government policy level .
However smaller grants may be  provided by a सरकारी एजेंसी ( e.g  . municipal government ) .
project-related funding involving सरकारें , कारोबार , समुदायों , और individuals is प्रायः  arranged by application either in writing or online .
Naturally occurring cobalt ( Co ) is composed of 1  stable समस्थानिक , 59co . 28 radioisotopes have महरूम characterized साथ the सबसे stable होने 60co साथ a half-life of 5.2714 सालो , 57co  with a half-life of 271.79 days , 56Co with a half-life of 77.27 days , and 58Co with a half-life of 70.86 days .
All of the remaining radioactive isotopes have half-lives  कि हैं कम than 18 घंटों  and the majority of these have half-lives that are less than 1 second .
This element also has 11 meta  राज्य , सब of जिससे have half-lives कम than  15 minutes .
The isotopes of cobalt range in  परमाणु वज़न इससे 47co to 75co  .
The primary decay mode for isotopes with atomic mass unit values less than that of the most  abundant stable समस्थानिक , 59co , is इलेक्ट्रॉन कैप्चर और the प्राथमिक विधि of क्षय लिये those of वृहद than 59  atomic mass units is beta decay .
The primary decay products before 59Co are iron isotopes and the  प्राथमिक उत्पाद बाद हैं निकल  isotopes .
Standard atomic  द्रव्यमान : 58.933195 ( 5 )  u
Who  स्थानांतरित my चीज  ?
An Amazing Way to Deal with Change in Your Work and in Your Life , published in 1998 , is a  प्रेरक किताब by स्पेंसर जॉनसन लिखा in the स्टाइल of a मिसाल or कारोबार fable  .
it describes बदलें in एक 's कार्य और जीवन , और चार ठेठ प्रतिक्रियाएँ  to said change by two mice and two `` littlepeople '' , during their hunt for cheese .
A New York  टाइम्स कारोबार बेस्टसेलर चूंकि  release , Who Moved My Cheese ?
remained on the list for almost five years  और खर्च over 200 सप्ताह  on Publishers Weekly 's hardcover nonfiction list .
It has sold more than 26 million copies  विश्वव्यापी in 37 भाषाएं और remains to be एक of the best-selling  business books .
Nikita Sergeyevich Khrushchev ( –  सितंबर 11 , 1971 ) led the सोवियत संघ दौरान भाग of the ठंडा  War .
He served  as पहला सचिव of the कम्युनिस्ट पार्टी of the सोवियत संघ इससे 1953 to  1964 , and as Chairman of the Council of Ministers , or Premier , from 1958 to 1964 .
Khrushchev was  जिम्मेदार लिये the आंशिक de-stalinization of the सोवियत संघ , लिये बैकिंग the प्रगति of the  early Soviet space program , and for several relatively liberal reforms in areas of domestic policy .
Khrushchev 's party colleagues removed him from power in 1964 ,  replacing उसे साथ लियोनिद brezhnev as पहला सचिव और एलेक्सी kosygin as प्रीमियर  .
Khrushchev was born in the Russian village of Kalinovka in 1894 , close to the  present-day किनारा between रूस और युक्त  .
He was employed  as a metalworker in उसके युवावस्था , और दौरान the रूसी सिविल  War was a political commissar .
With the help of Lazar Kaganovich ,  he worked उसके रास्ता up the सोवियत पदानुक्रम  .
He supported  जोसेफ स्टालिन 's purges , और स्वीकृत  thousands of arrests .
In 1939 ,  स्टालिन भेजा उसे to govern युक्त , और he जारी  the purges there .
During what was known in the Soviet Union as the Great Patriotic War ( Eastern Front of World War II ) , Khrushchev was again  a commissar , सेवारत as an intermediary between स्टालिन और उसके सेनापतियों .
Khrushchev was present at the bloody  रक्षा of stalingrad , a फैक्ट he took ग्रेट  pride in throughout his life .
After the war , he  लौटे to युक्त पहले होने  recalled to Moscow as one of Stalin 's close advisers .
In the power struggle triggered by Stalin 's death in 1953 ,  khrushchev , बाद अनेक सालो , उभरा विजयी .
On February 25 , 1956 , at  the 20th पार्टी कॉंग्रेस , he वितरित the `` रहस्य  Speech , '' denouncing Stalin 's purges and ushering in a less repressive era in the Soviet Union .
His domestic  नीतियों , aimed at bettering the जीवनदान of ordinary नागरिकों  , were often ineffective , especially in the area of agriculture .
Hoping eventually to rely on missiles for national defense ,  khrushchev ordered प्रमुख कटौती in conventional  forces .
Despite the cuts , Khrushchev 's  नियम देखी the tensest सालो of the ठंडा युद्ध , culminating  in the Cuban Missile Crisis .
कुछ of khrushchev 's नीतियों यहूद देखी as erratic , विशेषकर by उसके उभरते विरोधियों  , who quietly rose in strength and deposed him in October 1964 .
He did not suffer the  घातक भाग्य of कुछ पिछला losers of सोवियत शक्ति struggles , लकिन थी pensioned  off with an apartment in Moscow and a dacha in the countryside .
His lengthy memoirs were  smuggled to the वेस्ट  and published in part in 1970 .
khrushchev died in 1971 of  heart disease .
Upper gastrointestinal ( GI ) bleeding  refers to hemorrhage in the अपर जठरांत्र  tract .
The anatomic cut-off for upper GI bleeding is the ligament of Treitz , which connects the  चौथी portion of the duodenum to the diaphragm निकट the splenic  flexure of the colon .
Upper GI bleeds are considered medical  emergencies , और आवश्यकता प्रवेश  to hospital for urgent diagnosis and management .
Due to advances in  medications और endoscopy , अपर gi hemorrhage is  now usually treated without surgery .
World population estimates from 1800 to 2100 , based on UN 2010 projections ( red , orange , green ) and  us जनसांख्यिकी ब्यूरो ऐतिहासिक estimates (  black ) .
Actual  अंकित जनसांख्यिकी आंकड़े हैं  in blue .
According to the highest estimate , the world population may  वृद्धि to 16 अरब by 2100 ; according to the न्यूनतम अनुमान , it may मनाही  to 6 billion .
The  संसार जनसांख्यिकी is the कुल  number of living humans on Earth .
As of today , it is estimated to number billion by the  संयुक्त राज्य जनसांख्यिकी ब्यूरो ( uscb  ) .
The USCB estimates that the  संसार जनसांख्यिकी exceeded 7 अरब on  March 12 , 2012 .
According to a separate estimate by the United Nations  जनसांख्यिकी निधि , it पहुँचे इस पड़ाव on अक्तूबर 31 , 2011 .
The world population has experienced continuous  विकास चूंकि the समाप्त of the ग्रेट अकाल और  the Black Death in 1350 , when it stood at around 370 million .
The highest rates of growth – global  जनसांख्यिकी increases ऊपर 1.8 % प्रति साल – यहूद देखी briefly दौरान  the 1950s , and for a longer period during the 1960s and 1970s .
The growth rate peaked at 2.2 % in  1963 , और था  declined to 1.1 % by 2011 .
Total annual births were highest in the late 1980s at about 138 million , and are now expected  to remain essentially निरंतर at उनके 2011 स्तर of 134 लाख , जबकि मौतों क्रमांक 56 लाख प्रति साल , और हैं अपेक्षित to  increase to 80 million per year by 2040 .
Current projections show a continued  बढ़ाएँ in जनसांख्यिकी in the निकट भविष्य ( लकिन a स्थिर मनाही in the जनसांख्यिकी विकास रेट  ) , with the global population expected to reach between 7.5 and 10.5 billion by 2050 .
Various  longer-term estimates भविष्यवाणी further विकास ,  stagnation , or even overall decline in the global population by 2150 .
Some analysts have questioned the sustainability of further world  जनसांख्यिकी विकास , citing the growing pressures on the पर्यावरण , वैश्विक खाना आपूर्तियाँ , और उर्जा संसाधन  .
फिलिप्स lumileds lighting कम्पनी is the निर्माता of a चौड़ी दायरा of high-power/high-efficiency  light-emitting diodes ( LEDs ) .
it is a अभी a fully स्वामित्व प्रभाग  of Philips Lighting .
Knuckle mnemonic for the number of  दिनों in प्रत्येक माह  of the Gregorian Calendar .
Each  projecting knuckle  represents a 31-day month .
A  mnemonic ( , साथ a मूक `` m '' ) , or mnemonic यंत्र , is कोई सीखना  technique that aids information retention .
mnemonics उद्देश्य to अनुवाद सूचना into a रूप कि  the human brain can retain better than its original form .
Even  the प्रक्रम of applying इस परिवर्तन might  already aid the transfer of information to long-term memory .
Commonly encountered  mnemonics हैं प्रायः लिये सूचियाँ और in auditory रूप , ऐसे as छोटी कविताएं , acronyms , or यादगार वाक्यांश , लकिन mnemonics can भी  be for other types of information and in visual or kinesthetic forms .
Their use is based on the observation  कि the इंसान दिमाग अधिक easily remembers स्थानिक , निजी , आश्चर्यजनक , शारीरिक ,  sexual , humorous , or otherwise 'relatable ' information , rather than more abstract or impersonal forms of information .
The word mnemonic is derived from the Ancient Greek  शब्द μνημονικός ( mnēmonikos ) , अर्थ `` of मेमोरी '' और is सम्बन्धित to mnemosyne ( `` स्मरण '' ) , the नाम  of the goddess of memory in Greek mythology .
Both of these words are derived from μνήμη ( mnēmē  ) , `` स्मरण , मेमोरी ''  .
Mnemonics in antiquity were  सबसे प्रायः माना in the कॉन्टेक्स्ट of कया is  today known as the Art of memory .
Ancient Greeks and Romans distinguished between two  प्रकार of मेमोरी : the 'natural ' मेमोरी  and the 'artificial ' memory .
The former  is inborn , और is the एक कि everyone  uses automatically and without thinking .
The  कृत्रिम मेमोरी in कंट्रास्ट रै to be प्रशिक्षित और विकसित through the  learning and practicing of a variety of mnemonic techniques .
Mnemonic systems are special techniques  or रणनीति consciously प्रयुक्त to improve मेमोरी , it helps employ सूचना already भंडारित  in long-term memory to make memorization an easier task .
President Bush  हस्ताक्षर the no चाइल्ड बाएँ पीछे अधिनियम at हैमिल्टन h.s  . in Hamilton , Ohio .
The No Child Left Behind Act of 2001 ( NCLB ) is a United States  अधिनियम of कॉंग्रेस कि is a reauthorization of the elementary  and Secondary Education Act , which included Title I , the government 's flagship aid program for disadvantaged students .
NCLB supports standards-based  शिक्षा सुधार आधारित on the आधार कि सेटिंग ऊँची मानकों और establishing  measurable goals can improve individual outcomes in education .
The Act requires states to develop  आकलन in मौलिक कौशल .
States must give these assessments to all  विद्यार्थी at चुनें ग्रेड स्तर in अनुक्रम to प्राप्त  federal school funding .
The Act  करता नहीं assert a नेशनल उपलब्धि मानक  ; standards are set by each individual state .
NCLB expanded the federal role in public  शिक्षा through सालाना परीक्षण  , annual academic progress , report cards , teacher qualifications , and funding changes .
The bill passed in  the u.S. कॉंग्रेस साथ bipartisan  support .
Dodge B Series  यूटिलिटी circa 1950 , चलित by  Albert Namatjira
A  पिकअप ट्रक or pick-up , प्रायः बस referred to as a  pickup , is a light motor vehicle with an open-top , rear cargo area ( bed ) .
in उत्तर अमेरिका , the पद पिकअप is प्रयुक्त लिये लाइट ट्रक साथ a हल्का ड्यूटी chassis और फैक्टरी निर्मित , एकीकृत  bed , as well as for coupé utility vehicles , often based on a personal car chassis , but also often on a special dedicated chassi for such use .
Some countries have their own terms  समान to पिकअप , ऐसे as ute in ऑस्ट्रेलिया और नई जीलैंड , or bakkie in दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी  .
Large pickup trucks are somewhat rare in Europe ,  जहाँ वैन और लाइट lorries हैं commonly  used for similar roles .
This  15th-century चित्रण of शारलेमेन और पोप एड्रियन i shows a well-bred मध्यकालीन घोड़ा  with arched neck , refined head and elegant gait .
Horses in the Middle  आयु differed in आकार , निर्माण और नस्ल  from the modern horse , and were , on average , smaller .
They were also more central to  समाज than उनके आधुनिक counterparts , होने अनिवार्य लिये युद्ध , कृषि  , and transport .
Consequently ,  विशिष्ट प्रकार of घोड़ा विकसित , अनेक of  which have no modern equivalent .
While an understanding of modern  घोड़ा breeds और equestrianism is vital लिये कोई विश्लेषण of the मध्यकालीन घोड़ा , शोधकर्ताओं  also need to consider documentary ( both written and pictorial ) and archaeological evidence .
घोड़े in the मध्य आयु यहूद rarely differentiated  by breed , but rather by use .
This led them to be described , for example , as `` chargers ``  ( युद्ध घोड़े ) , `` palfreys `` ( सवारी घोड़े ) , कार्ट घोड़े or packhorses  .
Reference is also given to their  प्लेस of उत्पत्ति , ऐसे as `` स्पेनी  horses , '' but whether this referred to one breed or several is unknown .
Another difficulty arising during any study of medieval documents or literature is the flexibility of the medieval languages ,  जहाँ अनेक शब्द can be प्रयुक्त लिये एक बात ( or , conversely  , several objects are referred to by one word ) .
Words such as ' courser ' and 'charger ' are used interchangeably ( even within one document ) , and where one epic  may बोलो disparagingly of a rouncey , another गुणगान इसके कौशल और swiftness  .
Significant technological advances in equestrian equipment , often introduced from other  संस्कृतियों , अनुमत लिये significant परिवर्तन in दोनो warfare  and agriculture .
In particular , improved  डिजाइन लिये the solid-treed काठी as खूब as the आगमन of the रकाब , नाल और घोड़ा कॉलर  were significant advances in medieval society .
Consequently , the assumptions and theories developed by historians are not definitive , and debate still rages on many issues , such as the breeding or size of the horse , and a number of sources must  be consulted in अनुक्रम to समझे the विशालता of the विषय  .
The Music Man is a  musical साथ किताब , म्यूज़िक , और गीत by मेरेडिथ willson , आधारित  on a story by Willson and Franklin Lacey .
The plot concerns con man Harold Hill , who poses as a  लड़कों ' बैंड आयोजक और नेता और बिकता बैंड यंत्र और वर्दी to भोली townsfolk  before skipping town with the cash .
In River City , Iowa , prim librarian and piano teacher Marian  paroo sees through उसे , लकिन जब हिल helps उसके younger bhai overcome उसके भय of सोशल interactions due to उसके लिस्प , marian begins to पतन in प्रेम साथ  Harold .
हेरोल्ड , in फेरे गिरना लिये marian , risks  being caught to win her .
In 1957 , the show  became a hit on ब्रॉडवे , जीतना पाँच टोनी पुरस्कार , सहित  Best Musical , and running for 1,375 performances .
The cast album won the first Grammy Award for `` Best  असली डाल एल्बम '' और थी क्रमांक एक on  the Billboard charts for 245 weeks .
The show  's कामयाबी led to revivals और a लोकप्रिय  1962 film adaptation and a 2003 television remake .
It  अक्सर is उत्पादित by दोनो पेशेवर और amateur  theater companies .
Surveyor  's व्हील
A surveyor 's wheel , also called a clickwheel ,  hodometer , waywiser , trundle व्हील , measuring व्हील , or perambulator  is a device for measuring distance .
Largest  non-polar रेगिस्तान
Sand dunes in  the rub ' al खली ( `` खाली  quarter '' ) of Saudi Arabia .
makhtesh रेमन , negev  desert , Israel
A desert is a landscape or region of land that is very dry because of low rainfall  amounts ( वर्षण ) , प्रायः रै छोटी कवरेज by पौधे , और in जिससे स्ट्रीम शुष्क up जबतक  they are supplied by water from outside areas .
Deserts can also  be वर्णित as क्षेत्रों जहाँ अधिक जल  is lost by evapotranspiration than falls as precipitation .
Desert plants must  have खास adaptations to जीवित साथ  this little water .
Deserts generally receive less  than 25 cm of बरसात ( वर्षण ) प्रत्येक  year .
Semideserts or steppes  हैं regions जिससे प्राप्त between  and .
In the Köppen  जलवायु वर्गीकरण प्रणाली , रेगिस्तान हैं classed as bwh ( hot मरुस्थल  ) or BWk ( temperate desert ) .
In the Thornthwaite  जलवायु वर्गीकरण प्रणाली , रेगिस्तान होता be वर्गीकृत  as arid megathermal climates .
World War I ( WWI ) was a global war centred in Europe that began  on 28 जुलाई 1914 और lasted जबतक 11 नवम्बर  1918 .
It was  predominantly पुकारा the संसार युद्ध or the ग्रेट युद्ध इससे इसके occurrence  until the start of World War II in 1939 , and the First World War or World War I thereafter .
It involved all the world 's great powers , which were  समवेत in दो opposing alliances : the allies ( आधारित on the ट्रिपल entente of the संयुक्त किंगडम  , France and Russia ) and the Central Powers ( originally the Triple Alliance of Germany , Austria-Hungary and Italy ; but , as Austria–Hungary had taken the offensive against the agreement , Italy did not enter into the war ) .
These alliances were both reorganised and  विस्तारित as अधिक राष्ट्र डाला the युद्ध : इटली , जापानी और the संयुक्त राज्य joined the allies , और the उस्मानी  Empire and Bulgaria the Central Powers .
Ultimately ,  अधिक than 70 लाख सैन्य कर्मियों , सहित 60 लाख  Europeans , were mobilised in one of the largest wars in history .
More than 9 million combatants  यहूद मारे , largely क्युकी of technological advancements कि led to विशाल  increases in the lethality of weapons without corresponding improvements in protection or mobility .
It was the fifth- deadliest conflict in world history ,  subsequently paving the रास्ता लिये विभिन्न राजनैतिक परिवर्तन , ऐसे as revolutions in अनेक  of the nations involved .
One of the long-term causes of the war was the  पुनरुत्थान of साम्राज्यवाद in the विदेशी नीतियों of the  great powers of Europe .
More immediately , the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria , the heir to the  सिंहासन of austria-hungary , on 28 जून 1914 by यूगोस्लाव राष्ट्रवादी gavrilo princip in साराजेवो triggered a राजनयिक संकट जब  Austria-Hungary subsequently delivered an ultimatum to the Kingdom of Serbia .
Several alliances  formed over the पिछला  decades were invoked .
Within weeks , the major powers were  at युद्ध और , via उनके colonies , the विरोध जल्द स्प्रेड around  the world .
on 28 जुलाई , the austro-hungarians fired the पहला  shots of the war as preparation for the invasion of Serbia .
While the Russians mobilised , the Germans invaded neutral Belgium  और ध्वज on the रास्ता to फ़्रांस , providing a casus belli लिये ब्रिटेन 's घोषणा of  war against Germany .
After the German march on Paris was brought to a halt—the so-called Miracle of the Marne —the Western Front settled into a static  बैटल of अपघर्षण साथ a गर्त लकीर कि बदला छोटी जबतक  1917 .
On the Eastern Front , the Russian army was successful  विरूद्ध the austro-hungarians , लकिन थी  stopped in its invasion of East Prussia by the Germans .
in नवम्बर the उस्मानी साम्राज्य joined the युद्ध , खोलने up fronts  in the Caucasus , Mesopotamia and the Sinai .
Italy and Bulgaria went to war in  1915 और रोमानिया in 1916 .
In  रूस , the त्सार 's सरकारी collapsed in  March 1917 and a subsequent revolution in November brought the Russians to terms with the Central Powers .
After a 1918 German offensive along the western front , the Allies drove back  the germans in a श्रेणी of कामयाब offensives और अमरीकी शक्तियां began  entering the trenches .
Germany , which had its own trouble  साथ क्रांतिकारियों , सहमत to an armistice on  11 November 1918 .
The war ended in  विजय लिये  the Allies .
Events on the home fronts were as  उग्र as on the बैटल fronts , as the भागीदार आजमाया to mobilize उनके जनशक्ति  and economic resources to fight a total war .
By the end of the war , four major imperial powers—the German ,  रूसी , austro-hungarian और उस्मानी empires—ceased to मौजूद  .
The  successor राज्य of the पूर्व दो खोया a ग्रेट राशि  of territory , while the latter two were dismantled entirely .
The  मैप of सेंट्रल यूरोपीय थी redrawn into अनेक छोटी  states .
The League of Nations was formed in the hope  of preventing another ऐसे विरोध  .
The European nationalism spawned by  the युद्ध और the ब्रेकअप of empires , the परखना  of Germany 's defeat and problems with the Treaty of Versailles are agreed to be factors contributing to World War II .
`` Girls Just Want to Have Fun '' is a 1979  सोंग originally लिखा by रॉबर्ट  Hazard and made famous by singer Cyndi Lauper .
It was the first major  सिंगल released by lauper as a सोलो कलाकार और the lead-off सिंगल इससे  her debut album She 's So Unusual .
Lauper’s version gained  मान्यता as a feminist गान और प्रचारित by an award-winning  video .
It has been covered on either an album or in live  कॉन्सर्ट by over 30 अन्य कलाकारों .
The single  थी lauper 's भेदन hit , reaching # 2 on  the Billboard Hot 100 and becoming a worldwide hit throughout late 1983 and early 1984 .
It  remains एक of lauper 's हस्ताक्षर गीतों और थी a widely लोकप्रिय  song during the era of its release , the 1980s .
The ``  रोलिंग स्टोन & एमटीवी : '100 महानतम पॉप गीतों ' : 1-50 '' , `` रोलिंग स्टोन : `` the 100 शीर्ष म्यूज़िक वीडियो  '' '' and the `` VH1 : 100 Greatest Videos '' lists ranked the song at # 22 , # 39 and # 45 , respectively .
The song received a Grammy Award nomination  लिये रिकार्ड of the साल और बेहतरीन मादा पॉप गायन प्रदर्शन  .
View of  defibrillator एलेक्ट्रोड स्थिति  and placement .
Defibrillation is a common treatment for  life-threatening हृदय dysrhythmias  , ventricular fibrillation , and pulseless ventricular tachycardia .
Defibrillation consists of delivering a therapeutic dose of  विद्युत उर्जा to the प्रभावित दिल साथ a यंत्र पुकारा  a defibrillator .
This depolarizes a critical mass of the heart muscle , terminates the dysrhythmia , and  allows सामान्य sinus लय to be reestablished by the देह 's प्राकृतिक pacemaker , in the sinoatrial  node of the heart .
Defibrillators can be external , transvenous , or  implanted , depending on the प्रकार of यंत्र प्रयुक्त or needed  .
Some external units , known as automated external defibrillators ( AEDs ) , automate the diagnosis of treatable rhythms  , अर्थ कि lay responders or bystanders हैं समर्थ to उपयोग उन्हें सफलतापूर्वक  with little , or in some cases no training at all .
The Cato  संस्थान is an अमरीकी libertarian सोचो टैंक headquartered  in Washington , D.C .
It was founded as the Charles Koch Foundation in 1974 by Murray  rothbard , ed क्रेन और चार्ल्स koch , अध्यक्ष of the फलक और मुख्य कार्यपालिका अधिकारी of the संगुटिका  Koch Industries , Inc. .
In July 1976 ,  the नाम थी बदला to the  Cato Institute .
According to the 2011 Global Go To Think Tank Index , Cato is the 6th most  influential us आधारित सोचो टैंक , रैंकिंग 3rd in आर्थिक नीति और 2nd in  Social Policy .
The Institute 's stated mission is `` to increase the understanding of public policies based on the  सिद्धान्त of सीमित सरकारी , फ़्री बाज़ार , व्यक्तिगत स्वतंत्रता , और सलाम .
The Institute will use the most effective means to originate  , एडवोकेट , प्रचार , और disseminate  applicable policy proposals that create free , open , and civil societies in the United States and throughout the world . ''
Cato scholars were critical of George W. Bush 's Republican administration (  2001–2009 ) on अनेक मुद्दे , सहित the इराकी युद्ध , सिविल लिबर्टीज , शिक्षा , कृषि , उर्जा  policy , and excessive government spending .
On other issues , they  समर्थित बुश प्रशासन पहलों , सबसे notably स्वास्थ्य परवाह , सोशल सुरक्षा  , global warming , tax policy , and immigration .
During the 2008 U.S.  अध्यक्षीय चुनाव , केटो विद्वानों criticized दोनो major-party  candidates , John McCain and Barack Obama .
Cato has criticized President Obama 's stances on policy issues since his inauguration , such as fiscal stimulus , healthcare reform , foreign policy , and  the युद्ध on दवाएँ , जबकि supporting उसके stance on the repeal of  Do n't Ask , Do n't Tell and liberal immigration policy .
Dracula is  an 1897 गोथिक हॉरर अनोखा by आयरिश लेखक  Bram Stoker .
Famous for introducing the character of the vampire Count  ड्रैकुला , the अनोखा tells the स्टोरी of ड्रैकुला 's attempt to relocate इससे transylvania to इंग्लैण्ड , और  the battle between Dracula and a small group of men and women led by Professor Abraham Van Helsing .
Dracula has been assigned to  अनेक साहित्यिक जाति सहित पिशाच साहित्य , हॉरर fiction , the गोथिक अनोखा  and invasion literature .
The novel touches on themes  ऐसे as the भूमिका of महिलाओं in विक्टोरियन संस्कृति , यौन प्रथाओं  , immigration , colonialism , and post-colonialism .
Although Stoker did not  इफ़तेरा the पिशाच , he पारिभाषित इसके आधुनिक रूप , और the अनोखा रै शाखित numerous नाट्य  , film and television interpretations .
Quidditch is a competitive sport in the wizarding world of the  हैरी कुम्हार ब्रह्मांड , और is इससे the श्रेणी of children 's novels और फिल्मों  .
It is an extremely rough but very popular  semi-contact खेल , निभाई by wizards और witches  .
Matches are played between two teams of seven players  सवारी उड़ती broomsticks , using चार गेंदें और छह elevated ring-shaped लक्ष्य , तीन on प्रत्येक पक्ष of the quidditch पिच  ( field ) .
In the Harry Potter  ब्रह्मांड , quidditch holds a fervent following समान to the  position that association football holds as a globally popular sport .
The sport is  स्मारकीय throughout  the wizarding world .
Harry plays an important position for  उसके हाउस टोली at हॉग्वार्ट्स : he is the seeker और becomes  the captain in his sixth year there .
Regional  और अंतरराष्ट्रीय प्रतियोगिताओं हैं उल्लेखित  throughout the series .
in प्याला of आग , quidditch at हॉग्वार्ट्स  is cancelled for the Tri-Wizard Tournament , but Harry and the Weasleys attend the Quidditch World Cup .
In addition , Harry uses his Quidditch skills to capture a golden egg from a dragon called the Hungarian Horntail ( in the first task of the Tri-Wizard Tournament ) , to capture a  उड़ती कुंजी in पारस 's स्टोन , और on दो कुंजी अवसरों in deathly hallows — getting थाम of ravenclaw 's diadem , और दौरान the फाइनल लड़ो साथ voldemort — the `` unerring  skill of the Seeker '' is useful to him in snatching the Elder Wand out of the air .
Harry Potter has owned two broomsticks , the  nimbus 2000 और the firebolt , दोनो of जिससे हैं नष्ट by the  series ' end .
The game has been adopted in the  रियल संसार in the रूप of मगलू quidditch  .
The  संयुक्त राज्य कॉंग्रेस is the bicameral विधानमंडल of the संघीय सरकारी of the संयुक्त राज्य consisting  of two houses : the lower house known as the House of Representatives and the upper house known as the Senate .
Congress meets in the Capitol  in वॉशिंगटन , d.c  .
Both  प्रतिनिधि और सीनेटरों हैं चुनी through सीधा  election .
Congress has a total of 535 voting members : 435 members  in the हाउस of प्रतिनिधि और 100 सदस्यों in the सीनेट  .
सदस्यों of the हाउस of प्रतिनिधि serve two-year  terms representing the people of a district .
Congressional districts are apportioned  to राज्य by जनसांख्यिकी using the संयुक्त राज्य जनसांख्यिकी परिणाम , प्रत्येक राज्य  in the union having at least one representative in the House of Representatives .
Regardless of  जनसांख्यिकी , प्रत्येक of the 50 राज्य रै दो सीनेटरों ; the 100 सीनेटरों प्रत्येक serve  a six-year term .
the शर्तें हैं लड़खड़ाते so प्रत्येक दो सालो लगभग  one-third of the Senate is up for election .
Each staggered group of one-third of the  सीनेटरों हैं पुकारा 'classes  ' .
no राज्य of the संयुक्त  States has two senators from the same class .
Most incumbents seek  re-election , और उनके ऐतिहासिक likelihood of जीतना  subsequent elections exceeds 90 percent .
In August 2012 , a Gallup poll reported that Congress’s  स्वीकृति दरजा amongst अमेरिकी थी at 10 % , मिलान a 38-year  low reached in November 2011 .
`` A  छोटी अधिक देश than कि '' is the शीर्षक of a सोंग लिखा by जॉय + रोरी 's रोरी ली feek , व्यान  Varble , and Don Poythress , and recorded by American country artist Easton Corbin .
It was released  in अगस्त 2009 as कोर्बिन 's डेब्यू सिंगल और is शामिल  on his self-titled debut album .
In April 2010 , the song  पहुँचे क्रमांक एक on the देश म्यूज़िक चार्ट , बनाना कोर्बिन the पहला पुरूष सोलो कलाकार in सात  years to send a debut single to Number One .
It has  महरूम certified  Gold by the RIAA .
The BlackBerry is a line of wireless handheld devices  और सेवाएं designed और marketed by शोध  In Motion Limited ( RIM ) operating as BlackBerry .
The first BlackBerry device , an email  पेजर , थी released in 1999 ; the सबसे हाल ब्लैकबेरी  devices , the Z10 and Q10 , were announced on January 30 , 2013 .
The user interface varies by model ; most feature a physical QWERTY keyboard , while newer  पीढियां have relied on a multi-touch स्क्रीन और आभासी कुंजीपटल  .
A BlackBerry can shoot video , take photos , play music , and  perform ऑनलाइन कृत्यों ऐसे as web-browsing और  emailing .
They can also  भेजें और प्राप्त धक्का ईमेल और तत्काल संदेश जबकि maintaining a ऊँची  level of security through on-device message encryption , and are designed to function as personal digital assistants .
BlackBerry devices support a large variety of instant messaging  सुविधाएँ , साथ the सबसे लोकप्रिय होने the मालिकाना  BlackBerry Messenger service .
The BlackBerry  playbook is a टैब्लेट कंप्यूटर  offered by the company .
The 100 millionth BlackBerry smartphone was shipped in June quarter of 2010 and the 200  millionth स्मार्टफोन थी shipped in सितंबर क्वार्टर of 2012 .
BlackBerry accounts for 3 %  of मोबाईल यंत्र बिक्री विश्वव्यापी in 2011 , बनाना इसके निर्माता  the sixth most popular device maker ( 25 % of mobile device sales are smartphones ) .
The consumer BlackBerry  अंतरजाल सेवा is उपलब्धियाँ in 91 देशों विश्वव्यापी on over 500 मोबाईल सेवा  operators using various mobile technologies .
as of सितंबर 2012 , वहीँ यहूद  eighty million subscribers worldwide to BlackBerry .
In 2011 the Caribbean and Latin America had the  उच्चतम penetrations of ब्लैकबेरी स्मार्टफ़ोन विश्वव्यापी , साथ up to परिचय 45 प्रति cent in the  region having a RIM device .
ब्लैकबेरी , iphone , एंड्रॉइड , और खिड़कियाँ फोन हैं माना  the four major smartphone brands .
BlackBerry is widely  referred to as `` crackberry '' in the संयुक्त राज्य , जिससे alludes to इसके excessive  use by its owners and is a reference to the addictiveness of crack cocaine .
Use of the term CrackBerry  became so फैली कि in नवम्बर 2006 वेबस्टर 's नई संसार कॉलेज शब्दकोष नामित  `` crackberry '' the `` New Word of the Year . ''
An  उदाहरण of a माँग वक्र shifting  .
The shift from D1 To D2  अर्थात् an बढ़ाएँ in माँग साथ  consequences for the other variables
In economics , the  माँग वक्र is the आलेख depicting the संबंध between the दाम  of a certain commodity and the amount of it that consumers are willing and able to purchase at that given price .
It is a  ग्राफिक प्रतिनिधित्व of  a demand schedule .
The demand curve for all consumers together follows from the  माँग वक्र of प्रत्येक व्यक्तिगत उपभोक्ता : the व्यक्तिगत मांगे  at each price are added together .
Demand curves are used to estimate behaviors in competitive markets , and are often combined with supply  वक्र to अनुमान the संतुलन दाम ( the दाम at जिससे विक्रेता साथ हैं willing to बेचें the वही राशि as खरीदार साथ हैं willing to ख़रीदे , भी ज्ञात as मार्केट clearing  price ) and the equilibrium quantity ( the amount of that good or service that will be produced and bought without surplus/excess supply or shortage/excess demand ) of that market .
In a monopolistic  मार्केट , the माँग वक्र facing the monopolist  is simply the market demand curve .
historia
by nikolaos  Gysis ( 1892 )
History ( from Greek - historia , meaning `` inquiry , knowledge acquired by investigation '' ) is an umbrella term that  relates to पास्ट कार्यक्रम as खूब as the डिस्कवरी , संग्रहण , संगठन , और प्रस्तुतीकरण of सूचना  about these events .
The term includes cosmic , geologic  , और सशुल्क इतिहास , लकिन is प्रायः generically implied  to mean human history .
Scholars who  लिखें परिचय इतिहास हैं पुकारा इतिहासकारों  .
History can also refer to the academic discipline which uses a narrative to examine  और analyse a अनुक्रम of पास्ट कार्यक्रम , और objectively determine the पैटर्न  of cause and effect that determine them .
Historians sometimes debate the nature of history and its usefulness  by discussing the पढ़ाई of the अनुशासन as an समाप्त in itself और as a रास्ता of providing  `` perspective '' on the problems of the present .
Stories common to a particular culture , but  नहीं समर्थित by बाह्य स्त्रोत ( ऐसे as the किस्से surrounding किंग आर्थर ) हैं प्रायः वर्गीकृत as सांस्कृतिक  heritage or legends , because they do not support the `` disinterested investigation '' required of the discipline of history .
Events occurring prior to written record  हैं माना प्रागितिहास  .
Herodotus , a 5th century B.C . Greek historian is considered within the Western tradition to be the `` father of history '' , and , along  साथ उसके समकालीन thucydides , helped रूप the मूलाधार लिये the आधुनिक पढ़ाई of इंसान  history .
Their work continues to be read today and the divide between the culture-focused Herodotus and  the military-focused thucydides remains a पाइंट of contention or दृष्टिकोण in आधुनिक ऐतिहासिक  writing .
In the  पूर्वी परंपरा , a राज्य वृत्तान्त the वसन्त और पतझड़ annals थी ज्ञात to be compiled  from as early as 722 BCE although only 2nd century BCE texts survived .
Ancient influences have helped spawn  रूपांतर interpretations of the प्रकृति of इतिहास जिससे  have evolved over the centuries and continue to change today .
The modern study of history is wide-ranging , and includes  the पढ़ाई of विशिष्ट regions और the पढ़ाई of निश्चित topical or thematical तत्व  of historical investigation .
Often history is taught as  भाग of प्राथमिक और द्वितीयक शिक्षा , और the अकादमिक पढ़ाई of इतिहास  is a major discipline in University studies .
Malcolm X ( ; May 19 , 1925February 21 , 1965 ) ,  born मैल्कम छोटी और भी ज्ञात as el-hajj malik el-shabazz ( ) , थी  an African-American Muslim minister and human rights activist .
To his admirers , he was a courageous advocate for the rights of blacks , a man who  indicted श्वेत अमेरिका in the harshest शर्तें लिये इसके अपराधों विरूद्ध  black Americans .
Detractors  अभियुक्त उसे of उपदेश जातिवाद ,  black supremacy , and violence .
he रै महरूम पुकारा एक of the महानतम  and most influential African Americans in history .
Malcolm  x 's पिता died—killed by श्वेत supremacists , it थी rumored—when he थी यंग ,  and at least one of his uncles was lynched .
When he  थी 13 , उसके माँ थी लगाई in a दिमागी हॉस्पिटल ,  and he was placed in a series of foster homes .
In 1946 , at age 20 , he went to  थाना लिये तोड़कर और प्रवेश  .
In  थाना , मैल्कम x became a सदस्य of the स्वदेश of islam ; बाद  his parole in 1952 , he quickly rose to become one of its leaders .
For a dozen years , Malcolm X was the public face of the controversial group , but disillusionment with Nation of Islam head  इलियास मुहम्मद led उसे to छोड़ the स्वदेश in कूच  1964 .
After  a काल of सफर in अफ़्रीकी और the  Middle East , he returned to the United States , where he founded Muslim Mosque , Inc. and the Organization of Afro-American Unity .
In February 1965 , less than a year after leaving the Nation of  islam , he थी assassinated by तीन सदस्यों of the समूह  .
मैल्कम x 's expressed  beliefs changed substantially over time .
As a spokesman for the Nation of  islam he सिखाया ब्लैक सर्वोच्चता और advocated विरह of  black and white Americans —in contrast to the civil rights movement 's emphasis on integration .
After breaking with the Nation of Islam in 1964—saying of his association with it , `` I  किया अनेक बाते as a [ ब्लैक ] मुस्लिम कि i 'm  sorry for now .
I was a zombie then ... pointed in a certain direction and told to march ''  —and बनने a सुन्नी मुस्लिम , he disavowed जातिवाद और expressed willingness to कार्य साथ  civil rights leaders , he continued to emphasize Pan-Africanism , black self-determination , and self-defense .
Henry Merritt `` Hank '' Paulson , Jr. ( born March 28 , 1946  ) is an अमरीकी बैंकर जो परोसा as the 74th संयुक्त  States Secretary of the Treasury .
He had served as the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Goldman Sachs , and is now chairman of the Paulson Institute , which he founded in 2011 to promote sustainable economic growth and a  क्लीनर पर्यावरण around the संसार , साथ an आरंभिक फ़ोकस on the संयुक्त राज्य  and China .
A virtual machine ( VM ) is a software  implemented abstraction of the underlying  hardware , which is presented to the application layer of the system .
आभासी मशीने may be आधारित on विशेषताएँ  of a hypothetical computer or emulate the computer architecture and functions of a real world computer .
Spiders ( order Araneae ) are air-breathing  arthropods कि have आठ टाँगे और chelicerae साथ fangs कि इंजेक्ट venom  .
They are the largest order of arachnids and rank  सातवाँ in कुल प्रजाति विविधता among  all other groups of organisms .
Spiders are found worldwide on every  महाद्वीप मगर लिये अंटार्कटिक , और have become स्थापित in nearly प्रत्येक आवास साथ the एक्सेप्शन  of air and sea colonization .
As of 2008 , at least 43,678 spider  प्रजाति , और 109 परिवारों have महरूम अंकित by taxonomists ; however , वहीँ रै महरूम भ्रम भीतर  the scientific community as to how all these families should be classified , as evidenced by the over 20 different classifications that have been proposed since 1900 .
Anatomically , spiders  differ इससे अन्य arthropods in कि the usual देह खण्ड हैं fused  into two tagmata , the cephalothorax and abdomen , and joined by a small , cylindrical pedicel .
Unlike  कीट , मकड़ियों do नहीं  have antennae .
In all except the most primitive group , the Mesothelae , spiders have the most centralized nervous  प्रणालियों of सब arthropods , as सब उनके ganglia हैं fused into एक द्रव्यमान in the cephalothorax  .
Unlike most arthropods , spiders have  no extensor मांसपेशियां in उनके limbs और बजाय extend  them by hydraulic pressure .
Their abdomens bear appendages that have been modified into  spinnerets कि extrude रेशा इससे up to छह प्रकार of रेशा ग्रंथियों  within their abdomen .
Spider webs vary widely  in आकार , आकार और the राशि  of sticky thread used .
It now appears that the spiral orb web  may be एक of the earliest फ़ॉर्म , और मकड़ियों कि उपज उलझे cobwebs हैं अधिक abundant  and diverse than orb-web spiders .
Spider-like arachnids with  silk-producing spigots appeared in the devonian काल  about , but these animals apparently lacked spinnerets .
True spiders have been  मिला in carboniferous रॉक्स इससे , और हैं बहुत समान to the  most primitive surviving order , the Mesothelae .
The main groups of  आधुनिक मकड़ियों , mygalomorphae और araneomorphae  , first appeared in the Triassic period , before .
A herbivorous species ,  bagheera kiplingi , थी वर्णित in 2008 , लकिन सब अन्य ज्ञात प्रजाति हैं परभक्षी , ज़्यादातर preying on कीट  and on other spiders , although a few large species also take birds and lizards .
Spiders use a  चौड़ी दायरा of रणनीति to कैप्चर शिकार : trapping it in स्टिकी webs  , lassoing it with sticky bolas , mimicking the prey to avoid detection , or running it down .
Most detect prey mainly by sensing  कंपन , लकिन the क्रियाशील hunters have अधि दृष्टि , और  hunters of the genus Portia show signs of intelligence in their choice of tactics and ability to develop new ones .
Spiders ' guts are too narrow to take solids , and they liquidize their food by  बाढ़ it साथ digestive एंजाइमों और पीस it साथ the bases of उनके pedipalps , as  they do not have true jaws .
Male spiders identify themselves by a variety of complex courtship rituals to  avoid होने खाया by the महिलाओं  .
Males of most species survive a few matings  , सीमित मुख्यतः by उनके छोटी जीवन spans .
Females weave  रेशा egg-cases , प्रत्येक of जिससे may  contain hundreds of eggs .
Females of many species care for their young , for example  by carrying उन्हें around or by sharing खाना साथ उन्हें  .
A minority of species are social ,  भवन सांप्रदायिक webs कि may हाउस anywhere इससे a few to  50,000 individuals .
Social  बर्ताव सीमाएँ इससे precarious toleration ,  as in the widow spiders , to co-operative hunting and food-sharing .
Although most spiders live for at  सबसे दो सालो , tarantulas और अन्य mygalomorph मकड़ियों can सजीव up to  25 years in captivity .
While the venom of a few  प्रजाति is खतरनाक to इंसानो , वैज्ञानिकों हैं अभी researching the उपयोग of मकड़ी  venom in medicine and as non-polluting pesticides .
Spider silk provides a combination  of lightness , शक्ति और लोच कि is श्रेष्ठ to कि of सिंथेटिक  materials , and spider silk genes have been inserted into mammals and plants to see if these can be used as silk factories .
As a result of their wide range of behaviors , spiders have become  आम प्रतीकों in आर्ट और mythology symbolizing विभिन्न combinations of सब्र , क्रूरता  and creative powers .
Donna Marie Pinciotti (  born फ़रवरी 13 , 1960 ) is a fictional अक्षर और एक of the दो  female leads in the Fox sitcom That '70s Show , appearing in all eight seasons .
portrayed by लौरा prepon , डोना  is the love interest to Eric Forman .
US county  household मध्य आय 2009  .
मध्य us household  income , 2001-2011
household आय is a माप commonly प्रयुक्त by the संयुक्त  States government and private institutions .
Each household  is measured by the आय of प्रत्येक  resident over the age of 15 .
Income includes wages and salaries , unemployment insurance , disability  भुगतान , चाइल्ड support भुगतान प्राप्त , नियमित rental रसीदें , as खूब as कोई निजी कारोबार , निवेश , or अन्य kinds of आय प्राप्त routinely  .
While inflation-adjusted ( `` real '' ) household income had been  increasing लगभग प्रत्येक साल इससे 1945 to 1999 , it रै चूंकि महरूम  flat and even decreased recently .
u.S. मध्य household आय  fell from $ 51,144 in 2010 to $ 50,502 in 2011 .
Extreme poverty in the United  राज्य , अर्थ households जीना on कम than $ 2 प्रति दिन पहले सरकारी लाभ , doubled  from 1996 to 1.5 million households in 2011 , including 2.8 million children .
The residents of the household do  नहीं have to be सम्बन्धित to the सिर of the household लिये उनके आय to be माना भाग of the household  's income .
As households tend to share a similar economic  कॉन्टेक्स्ट , the उपयोग of household आय remains  among the most widely accepted measures of income .
That the size of a household is not commonly taken into account in such measures may distort any  विश्लेषण of fluctuations भीतर or among the household आय श्रेणी , और may रेंडर सीधा comparisons between quintiles  difficult or even impossible .
A registered agent , also known as a resident agent or statutory agent , in  संयुक्त राज्य कारोबार विधि , is a कारोबार or व्यक्तिगत designated to प्राप्त सेवा of प्रक्रम ( sop ) जब a कारोबार एंटिटी is a  party in a legal action such as a lawsuit or summons .
The  पंजीकृत एजेंट 's पता may भी be जहाँ the राज्य  will send the paperwork for the yearly renewal of the business entity 's charter .
The registered agent for a business entity may be an individual member of the company ,  or ( अधिक प्रायः ) a तीसरा पार्टी , ऐसे as the संगठन  's lawyer or a service company .
Failure to properly maintain a  पंजीकृत एजेंट can affect a कम्पनी negatively  .
Office for Emergency  प्रबन्धन .
दफ्तर of युद्ध सूचना  war poster 1941 - 1945
`` Life , Liberty , and the  pursuit of सुख '' is a well-known  phrase in the United States Declaration of Independence .
The phrase is  meant to exemplify the `` unalienable अधिकारों '' साथ जिससे सब इंसान beings हैं endowed  by their creator for their protection of which they institute governments .
Fencing , is  typically विभाजित into ओलम्पिक तलवारबाजी  , Classical fencing and historical fencing , .
The sport  of तलवारबाजी ( commonly पुकारा ओलम्पिक तलवारबाजी or प्रतिस्पर्धी तलवारबाजी  ) is divided into three weapon categories : foil , sabre and épée .
Classical fencing uses the same  तीन हथियार , लकिन approaches तलवारबाजी as a  martial art .
Competitive Fencing  is एक of पाँच खेल जिससे रै महरूम प्रदर्शित at प्रत्येक एक of the आधुनिक ओलम्पिक खेल , the  other four being Athletics , Cycling , Swimming , and Gymnastics .
The quadriceps femoris ( Latin for `` four-headed muscle of the femur `` ) , also called simply  the quadriceps , quadriceps extensor , quads , is a विशाल मांसपेशी समूह कि शामिल the चार प्रचलित  muscles on the front of the thigh .
It is the great extensor muscle of the knee , forming a large  मांसल द्रव्यमान जिससे कवर the सामने और पहलू of the femur .
The  उचित लैटिन बहुवचन रूप of the  adjective quadriceps would be quadricipites .
In modern  अंग्रेज़ी उपयोग , quadriceps is प्रयुक्त  in both singular and plural .
The  एकवचन रूप quadricep , उत्पादित  by hypercorrection , is frequently used .
RMS Titanic was a British passenger liner that sank in the North Atlantic Ocean on 15 April 1912  बाद colliding साथ an हिमशैल दौरान उसके maiden voyage इससे southampton , uk to नई यॉर्क नगर  , US .
The sinking of  टाइटैनिक caused the मौतों of 1,502 लोगों in एक  of the deadliest peacetime maritime disasters in modern history .
The RMS  टाइटैनिक थी the largest जलयान afloat at the समय of  her maiden voyage .
She was the second of three Olympic class ocean  liners संचालित by the श्वेत स्टार लकीर , और वो थी निर्मित by the harland और wolff डॉकयार्ड in belfast  with Thomas Andrews , who perished with the ship , as her naval architect .
On her maiden voyage , she  carried 2,224 यात्री और क्रू .
Under the command of Edward Smith , her passengers included some of the wealthiest people in the world , as well as hundreds of emigrants  इससे ग्रेट ब्रिटेन और आयरलैंड , scandinavia और elsewhere throughout यूरोपीय seeking a नई जीवन in उत्तर अमेरिका  .
The ship was designed to be the last word in comfort and luxury , with an on-board gymnasium  , तैराकी पूल , पुस्तकालयों , high-class रेस्तरां और opulent केबिन  .
She also had a  शक्तिशाली बेतार टेलीग्राफ provided लिये the convenience  of passengers as well as for operational use .
Though she had advanced safety features such as  watertight compartments और remotely activated watertight द्वार , वो lacked पर्याप्त  lifeboats to accommodate all of those aboard .
Because of outdated maritime safety regulations , she carried only enough lifeboats for 1,178 people—slightly more than  हाफ of the क्रमांक यात्राएं on the maiden voyage , और one-third उसके कुल यात्री और क्रू क्षमता  .
After  leaving southampton on 10 अप्रैल 1912 , टाइटैनिक पुकारा at cherbourg  in France and Queenstown ( now Cobh ) in Ireland before heading westwards towards New York .
On 14 April 1912 , four days into the crossing and  परिचय 375 मील ( 600 km ) दक्षिण of न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड  , she hit an iceberg at 11:40 pm ship 's time .
The glancing collision caused Titanics hull plates to  बकल inwards साथ उसके स्टारबोर्ड पक्ष और खोली पाँच of उसके सोलह watertight  compartments to the sea ; the ship gradually filled with water .
meanwhile , यात्री और कुछ क्रू सदस्यों यहूद  evacuated in lifeboats , many of which were launched only partly loaded .
A disproportionate number of men  यहूद बाएँ सवार क्युकी of a `` महिलाओं और children पहला `` प्रोटोकॉल  followed by some of the officers loading the lifeboats .
By 2:20 AM , she broke apart and foundered ,  साथ खूब over एक हजार लोगों  still aboard .
Just under two hours after the Titanic foundered , the Cunard liner RMS Carpathia  arrived on the झाँकी of the डूब , जहाँ वो brought सवार an अनुमानित 705  survivors .
The disaster was greeted with worldwide  शॉक और आक्रोश at the विशाल घाटा of जीवन और the नियामक और operational  failures that had led to it .
Public inquiries in Britain and the United  राज्य led to प्रमुख सुधार  in maritime safety .
One of their most important legacies was the establishment in 1914 of the International Convention  लिये the सुरक्षा of जीवन at समुद्र ( solas ) , जिससे स्टिल governs मेरीटाइम  safety today .
Additionally , several new wireless regulations  यहूद passed around the संसार in an प्रयत्न to सीख इससे the अनेक missteps  in wireless communications -- -which could have saved many more passengers .
Many of the survivors lost all of their money and possessions and  यहूद बाएँ अक्षम ; अनेक परिवारों , विशेषकर those of क्रू सदस्यों इससे southampton  , lost their primary bread-winners .
They were  helped by an outpouring of पब्लिक सहानुभूति  and charitable donations .
Some of the male survivors were  अभियुक्त of कायरता लिये leaving the जलयान जबकि लोगों यहूद स्टिल on फलक ; the श्वेत स्टार लकीर 's अध्यक्ष , J. ब्रूस ismay , faced सोशल ostracism  for the rest of his life .
The  रेक of the टाइटैनिक remains on the समुद्रतल  , split in two and gradually disintegrating at a depth of .
Since its discovery in 1985 , thousands of artefacts have been recovered  और put on प्रदर्शक at संग्रहालय around the संसार  .
Titanic has become one of the most famous ships in  इतिहास , उसके मेमोरी रखा जिंदा by numerous किताबे , लोक गीतों , films , दर्शाती , और  memorials .
The human leg is the entire lower  extremity or limb of the इंसान देह , सहित the पैर , जांघ और भी the हिप or gluteal प्रदेश ; however ,  the precise definition in human anatomy refers only to the section of the lower limb extending from the knee to the ankle .
Legs are used for standing , walking , jumping , running , kicking , and  समान क्रियाएँ , और constitute a significant portion of a  person 's mass .
इस आलेख is परिचय the जनसांख्यिकी सुविधाएँ of the जनसांख्यिकी  of Turkey , including population density , ethnicity , education level , health of the populace , economic status , religious affiliations and other aspects of the population .
As  of 2010 , the जनसांख्यिकी of तुर्कों is अनुमानित  to be 73.7 million with a growth rate of 1.21 % per annum ( 2009 figure ) .
The  जनसांख्यिकी is अपेक्षाकृत यंग  with 26.6 % falling in the 0-14 age bracket .
According to the OECD/World Bank  जनसांख्यिकी आंकडे in तुर्कों the जनसांख्यिकी विकास इससे  1990 to 2008 was 16 million or 29 % .
1998 bmw  750iL
बुइक roadmaster
A full-size car  is a विपणन पद प्रयुक्त in उत्तर अमेरिका  for an automobile larger than a mid-size car .
In the United  राज्य , the epa उपयोग the  term `` large car '' to denote full-size cars .
Joel Grey ( born April 11 , 1932 ) is an American stage and screen actor , singer , and dancer , known for his role as the Master of Ceremonies in both  the स्टेज और फिल्मी अनुकूलन of the kander & उतार musical कैबरे  .
He has won the Academy  पुरस्कार , टोनी पुरस्कार और सुनहरी ग्लोब पुरस्कार  .
He also  originated the भूमिका of जार्ज M. cohan  in the musical George M !
in 1973 , the Wizard  in the musical दुष्ट  .
Grey also starred in the  ब्रॉडवे revivals of anything goes as moonface मार्टिन , और शिकागो  as Amos Hart .
James Madison , Jr. ( March 16 , 1751 ( O.S . March 5 ) – June 28 , 1836 ) was an  अमरीकी statesman और राजनैतिक theorist , the चौथी अध्यक्ष of the  United States ( 1809–1817 ) .
He is hailed as  the “father of the constitution” लिये होने इंस्ट्रूमेंटल in the drafting  of the United States Constitution and as the key champion and author of the United States Bill of Rights .
He  परोसा as a राजनेता much of  his adult life .
After the constitution had  महरूम drafted , मैडिसन became एक of the नेताओ in  the movement to ratify it .
His collaboration with Alexander Hamilton and John  jay उत्पादित the federalist papers ( 1788 )  .
Circulated only in New York at  the समय , वे होता बाद be माना among the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण polemics  in support of the Constitution .
He was also a delegate to the Virginia constitutional ratifying  सम्मेलन , और थी इंस्ट्रूमेंटल to the कामयाब अनुसमर्थन प्रयत्न  in Virginia .
Like most of his contemporaries ,  मैडिसन बदला उसके राजनैतिक  views during his life .
During the drafting and ratification of the constitution , he favored a  दमदार नेशनल सरकारी , हालांकि बाद he grew to एहसान stronger राज्य सरकारें , पहले settling between the दो extremes लेट  in his life .
In 1789 , Madison became a leader in the new House  of प्रतिनिधि , drafting अनेक  basic laws .
He is notable for drafting the first ten amendments to  the संविधान , और यूँ  is known as the `` Father of the Bill of Rights `` .
Madison worked closely with President  जार्ज वॉशिंगटन to व्यवस्थित the नई संघीय  government .
Breaking with Hamilton and what became the Federalist Party in 1791 , Madison and Thomas  जेफरसन व्यवस्थित कया वे पुकारा the रिपब्लिकन पार्टी ( बाद पुकारा by इतिहासकारों the democratic-republican  Party )
As Jefferson’s Secretary of State  ( 1801–1809 ) , मैडिसन पर्यवेक्षित the louisiana  Purchase , which doubled the nation’s size .
After  उसके चुनाव to the प्रेसिडेंसी ,  he presided over renewed prosperity for several years .
As president ( 1809–17 ) ,  बाद the विफलता of राजनयिक विरोध और a व्यापार embargo विरूद्ध ग्रेट ब्रिटेन ,  he led the nation into the War of 1812 .
He was responding to British encroachments on American honor and rights ; in addition , he wanted to end  the influence of the अंग्रेजों among उनके भारतीय allies , जिनकी प्रतिरोध अवरोधित संयुक्त  States settlement in the Midwest around the Great Lakes .
Madison found the war to be an administrative nightmare , as the United States had neither a  दमदार फौज nor वित्तीय प्रणाली ; as a परिणाम , he afterward समर्थित a stronger नेशनल सरकारी और a दमदार सैन्य  , as well as the national bank , which he had long opposed .
Like other Virginia  कूटनीतिज्ञों in the स्लेव समाज , he थी a slaveholder जो inherited उसके वृक्षारोपण ज्ञात as montpelier  , and owned hundreds of slaves during his lifetime to cultivate tobacco and other crops .
Madison supported the  three-fifths सुलह कि अनुमत three-fifths of the enumerated जनसांख्यिकी  of slaves to be counted for representation .
``  रोमन 's बदला '' is a सोंग performed by अमरीकी  rapper Nicki Minaj from her debut studio album Pink Friday .
It was written by Minaj and rapper Eminem , who is also featured in the  सोंग , और थी उत्पादित by swizz beatz  .
It was released exclusively on October 30 , 2010 through the  us itunes स्टोर , as a promotional रिलीज preceding the एल्बम  's release .
The song initiated a feud between Lil '  किम और minaj , जहाँ अनेक लोगों लगा  the song was directed at Lil ' Kim and regarded around her feelings towards Minaj 's rise to fame .
The song references Minaj 's alter-ego , Roman Zolanski , and Eminem  's alter-ego , पतला छायादार  .
The song garnered very positive reviews from critics ,  सबसे of जिससे praised the सोंग as a stand-out  track on the album .
An  आधिकारिक रिमिक्स featuring minaj 's mentor , लील वेन ,  was released to the US iTunes Store on January 19 , 2011 .
The  इंस्ट्रूमेंटल थी प्रयुक्त in the  song 'Firing Squad ' by Horseshoe G.A.N.G .
Hydraulic  द्रव होने poured  .
Hydraulic fluids , also called  हाइड्रोलिक liquids , हैं the मीडियम by जिससे शक्ति is transferred in हाइड्रोलिक मशीनरी  .
Common hydraulic  fluids हैं आधारित on खनिज  oil or water .
Examples of equipment that might use hydraulic fluids include excavators and backhoes , hydraulic brakes , power steering systems  , ट्रांसमिशन , कचरा ट्रक , वायुयान उड़ान कंट्रोल प्रणालियों , lifts , और औद्योगिक  machinery .
Hydraulic systems like the ones  उल्लेखित ऊपर होगा कार्य सबसे efficiently if the हाइड्रोलिक द्रव प्रयुक्त  has no compressibility
महिंद्रा ट्रैक्टर
Mahindra  tractors , the फार्म उपकरण प्रभाग of महिंद्रा & महिंद्रा , builds और स्त्रोत  tractors that are sold worldwide across six continents .
Mahindra  is भी among the शीर्ष तीन ट्रैक्टर  manufacturers in the world .
Mahindra has a huge consumer base in India , China and  अमेरिका और a growing आधार in ऑस्ट्रेलिया  .
The company builds more tractors in India than  कोई अन्य निर्माता , और रै the  capacity to build 150,000 tractors a year .
In 1963 , M & M formed a joint venture with International Harvester to  manufacture tractors carrying the महिंद्रा nameplate लिये  the Indian market .
Armed with engineering , tooling and  निर्माण know-how gained  from this relationship , M & M developed its first tractor , the B-275 .
Mahindra  tractors साथ बिक्री of nearly 85,000 इकाई annually is एक of the largest  tractor companies in the world , and is number one in sales in India - the largest tractor market in the world .
To expand into the growing tractor market in  चीन , महिंद्रा acquired बहुमत हिस्सेदारी in jiangling  .
To raise awareness about Mahindra in the US , Mahindra USA announced its new sponsorship in the  nascar देशभर श्रेणी साथ r3 मोटरस्पोर्ट , जिससे is participating साथ a # 23 महिंद्रा  Tractors Chevrolet .
The car will be driven by Robert Richardson , Jr.  महिंद्रा यूएसए , inc. घोषित a 17-race प्राथमिक और 18-race संबद्ध प्रायोजन लिये the  2009 NASCAR Nationwide Series .
With this sponsorship ,  महिंद्रा थी the पहला भारतीय कम्पनी to प्रायोजक  a car in NASCAR .
In 2008 , Mahindra  थी a प्रायोजक of the मैकडोनाल्ड मोटरस्पोर्ट टोली जिससे भागा the  # 81 car in the NASCAR Nationwide Series .
The POWER6 is a  माइक्रोप्रोसेसर विकसित by ibm कि implemented the  Power ISA v.2.03 .
When it became available in systems in 2007 , it succeeded  the शक्ति5+ as ibm 's फ्लैगशिप  Power microprocessor .
It is part of the eCLipz project , said to have a goal of converging IBM  's सर्वर हार्डवेयर जहाँ व्यावहारिक ( hence `` ipz '' in the एक्रोनिम : iseries , pseries  , and zSeries ) .
The American middle class is a social  क्लास in the संयुक्त राज्य .
While the concept is typically ambiguous in popular opinion and common language use  , समकालीन सोशल वैज्ञानिकों have put आगे अनेक , अधिक or कम  congruent , theories on the American middle class .
Depending on class model  प्रयुक्त , the मध्य क्लास may constitute anywhere इससे 25 % to  66 % of households .
One of the first major studies of the middle class in America was White Collar : The  अमरीकी मध्य वर्ग , प्रकाशित in 1951 by समाजशास्त्री  C. Wright Wright_Mills Mills Wright_Mills .
Later sociologists such as Dennis Gilbert of  हैमिल्टन कॉलेज commonly divide the मध्य क्लास into दो sub-groups  .
Constituting roughly 15 % to 20 % of households is the upper or professional  मध्य क्लास consisting of अत्यधिक शिक्षित , वेतनभोगी पेशेवर और  managers .
Constituting roughly one third of households is the lower middle class  consisting ज़्यादातर of semi-professionals , skilled कारीगरों और lower-level  management .
Middle-class persons commonly have a comfortable standard of living  , significant आर्थिक सुरक्षा , considerable कार्य स्वायत्तता और rely on उनके विशेषज्ञता to sustain  themselves .
Members of the middle class  belong to विविध समूह जिससे ओवरलैप  with each other .
Overall , middle-class  व्यक्तियों , विशेषकर upper-middle-class individuals , हैं characterized  by conceptualizing , creating and consulting .
Thus ,  कॉलेज शिक्षा is एक of the प्रमुख  indicators of middle-class status .
Largely attributed to the nature of  middle-class occupations , मध्य क्लास मान tend to emphasize  independence , adherence to intrinsic standards , valuing innovation and respecting non-conformity .
Politically  अधिक क्रियाशील than अन्य जनसांख्यिकी , कॉलेज शिक्षित मध्य  class professionals are split between the two major parties .
Income varies considerably from near the national median  to खूब in excess of $ 100,000  .
Household income figures , however , do not always reflect class status and standard of living , as they are  largely बहकावे by the क्रमांक of आय earners और असफल to recognize household  size .
It is therefore possible for a large , dual-earner , lower middle class  household to out-earn a छोटी , one-earner , अपर मध्य क्लास household  .
The middle classes are very  influential , as वे encompass the बहुमत of मतदाता , लेखक , शिक्षक  , journalists , and editors .
Most  societal रुझान in the us originate भीतर the  middle classes .
The  following is a सूची of शनिवार रात्रि सजीव  cast members , past and present .
The cast members of Saturday Night Live  यहूद originally referred to as  the `` Not Ready For Prime Time Players '' .
The original cast ( l to r ) : Laraine  न्युमैन , जॉन belushi , जेन कर्टिन , gilda radner ,  Dan Aykroyd , Garrett Morris , and Chevy Chase
Ruins from the 1906 San Francisco earthquake , remembered as one of  the worst प्राकृतिक आपदाओं in संयुक्त राज्य इतिहास
A disaster is a natural or man-made ( or technological ) hazard resulting in an event of  substantial extent causing significant शारीरिक क्षति or विनाश , घाटा of जीवन ,  or drastic change to the environment .
A disaster can be ostensively defined as any tragic event stemming from events such as  भूकंप , floods , अनर्थकारी दुर्घटनाओं  , fires , or explosions .
It is a phenomenon that can cause damage to  जीवन और प्रॉपर्टी और नष्ट the आर्थिक , सोशल और सांस्कृतिक  life of people .
In contemporary academia ,  आपदाओं हैं देखी as the consequence of inappropriately  managed risk .
These risks are the product of a  संयोजन of दोनो hazard/s और vulnerability  .
Hazards that strike in areas with low vulnerability will never  become आपदाओं , as is the मामला in uninhabited  regions .
Developing countries suffer the greatest costs when a disaster hits – more than 95 percent of all deaths caused by  आपदाओं occur in विकासशील देशों , और नुकसान due to प्राकृतिक आपदाओं हैं 20 टाइम्स वृहद ( as a प्रतिशत of जीडीपी ) in विकासशील देशों  than in industrialized countries .
In computing , booting (  भी ज्ञात as booting up ) is the आरंभिक नियत of परिचालन कि a कंप्यूटर प्रणाली performs जब विद्युत शक्ति  to the CPU is switched on .
The process begins when a computer is turned on for the first time or is re-energized after being turned off ,  और ends जब the कंप्यूटर is तैयार to perform इसके सामान्य परिचालन  .
On modern general purpose computers , this can take tens of seconds and typically involves performing a power-on self-test ,  locating और initializing परिधीय डिवाइस , और तब ढूंढना , लदान और  starting an operating system .
Many computer  प्रणालियों भी allow ये परिचालन to be initiated by a तन्त्र कमांड बगैर साइकिलिंग शक्ति , in कया  is known as a soft reboot , though some of the initial operations might be skipped on a soft reboot .
A boot loader is a computer program that loads the main  ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली or runtime पर्यावरण लिये the कंप्यूटर बाद पूर्णता of the  self-tests .
The computer term boot is short for bootstrap or  बूटस्ट्रैप लोड और गर्भाशयी इससे the phrase to खींचो oneself  up by one 's bootstraps .
The usage calls attention to the requirement that , if most software is loaded  onto a कंप्यूटर by अन्य तन्त्र already कार्यशील on the कंप्यूटर , कुछ  mechanism must exist to load initial software onto the computer .
Early computers used a  किस्में of ad-hoc विधि to मिलेंगी a छोटी कार्यक्रम into  memory to solve this problem .
The invention  of एकीकृत सर्किट read-only मेमोरी ( rom ) of विभिन्न प्रकार हल इस विरोधाभास by allowing  computers to be shipped with a start up program that could not be erased .
विकास in the क्षमता of rom रै अनुमत कभी  more elaborate start up procedures to be implemented .
On general purpose  कंप्यूटर , the बूट प्रक्रम begins साथ the निष्पादन  of an initial program stored in boot ROMs or read in another fashion .
in कुछ पुरानी कंप्यूटर , the आरंभिक कार्यक्रम might have महरूम the अनुप्रयोग  to run , if no operating system was used , or the operating system .
in अन्य कंप्यूटर , the आरंभिक कार्यक्रम is a बूट लोडर कि may तब लोड into random-access मेमोरी ( राम ) , इससे nonvolatile  secondary storage ( such as a hard disk drive ) or , in some older computers , from a medium such as punched cards , punched tape , or magnetic tape in older computers , the binary code of an operating system or runtime environment and then execute it .
If  the बूट लोडर is सीमित in इसके आकार और सामर्थ्य , it may , बजाय ,  load a larger and more capable secondary boot loader , which would then load the operating system or runtime environment .
Some embedded systems do not  आवश्यकता a noticeable बूट अनुक्रम to शुरू कामकाज और जब turned on may बस चलाएं operational कार्यक्रम  that are stored in ROM .
Firebird  is an खोलें सोर्स एसक्यूएल रिलेशनल डेटाबेस प्रबन्धन प्रणाली  that runs on Linux , Windows , and a variety of Unix .
The database forked from Borland 's open  सोर्स संस्करण of interbase in 2000 , लकिन चूंकि firebird 1.5 the कोड रै महरूम largely  rewritten .
Outsourcing is the contracting out of an internal  कारोबार प्रक्रम to a third-party संगठन .
The  अभ्यास of contracting a कारोबार प्रक्रम आउट to a तीसरा  party rather than staffing it internally is common in the modern economy .
The term ``  आउटसोर्सिंग '' became लोकप्रिय in the संयुक्त  States near the turn of the 21st century .
आउटसोर्सिंग sometimes involves transferring कर्मचारी और  assets from one firm to another , but not always .
The definition of outsourcing includes both foreign and  घरेलू contracting , और sometimes शामिल offshoring , जिससे अर्थात् relocating  a business function to another country .
Financial  बचत इससे निम्नतर अंतरराष्ट्रीय मजदूर दरों  is a big motivation for outsourcing/offshoring .
The opposite of outsourcing is called insourcing , which entails bringing processes  संभाला by third-party firms in-house , और is sometimes संपन्नता  via vertical integration .
However , a business can provide a contract  सेवा to another कारोबार बगैर necessarily insourcing कि कारोबार प्रक्रम  .
Human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV ) is a lentivirus ( slowly replicating  retrovirus ) कि कल्याणकारी acquired immunodeficiency सिंड्रोम ( एड्स ) , a कंडीशन  in humans in which progressive failure of the immune system allows life-threatening opportunistic infections and cancers to thrive .
Infection with  hiv occurs by the ट्रांसफ़र of रक्त ,  semen , vaginal fluid , pre-ejaculate , or breast milk .
Within these  bodily fluids , hiv is उपस्थित as दोनो फ़्री वायरस अणु  and virus within infected immune cells .
HIV infects vital cells in the human  प्रतिरक्षा प्रणाली ऐसे as हेल्पर t कोशिकाएं ( specifically cd4 + t कोशिकाएं ) , macrophages  , and dendritic cells .
HIV infection leads to low levels of CD4+ T cells through a number of  mechanisms सहित : apoptosis of uninfected bystander कोशिकाएं , सीधा वाइरल हत्या of  infected cells , and killing of infected CD4+ T cells by CD8 cytotoxic lymphocytes that recognize infected cells .
When CD4+ T cell numbers decline below a critical level , cell-mediated  प्रतिरक्षण is खोया , और the देह becomes progressively अधिक susceptible  to opportunistic infections .
The firepole in a fire  स्टेशन in टोरंटो
A fireman 's pole ( also called a sliding pole or firepole ) is a wooden pole or a metal tube or pipe installed between  floors in आग स्टेशन , allowing अग्निशमन responding to an सचेतक to जल्दी descend to the मैदान मंजिल तेज़ than by using a मानक staircase  .
the यंत्र थी invented in the 1870s by दाउद kenyon , in शिकागो  , Illinois , although it is often incorrectly credited to the Boston Fire Department .
मरियम poppins is the शीर्षक अक्षर of a श्रेणी of  children 's books written by P. L. Travers .
Throughout the Mary Poppins series , which lasted from 1934 to 1988  , मरियम shepard थी the इलस्ट्रेटर और acted as a दूसरी लेखक  .
The books centre on a  जादुई अंग्रेज़ी नैनी , मरियम  Poppins .
She is  blown by the ईस्ट हवा to क्रमांक सत्रह चेरी पेड़ लेन , लंदन , और  into the Banks ' household to care for their children .
मुठभेड़ों साथ चिमनी sweeps , दुकानदारों और  various adventures follow until Mary Poppins abruptly leaves , i.e. , `` pops-out '' .
The  adventures लो प्लेस over a कुल  of eight books .
However , only the first three books  विशेषता मरियम poppins arriving  and leaving .
The later five books recount previously  unrecorded adventures इससे उसके असली तीन विज़िट  .
As P. L. Travers  explains in उसके परिचय to मरियम poppins in the पार्क , `` वो  can not forever arrive and depart . ''
The books were adapted  in 1964 into a musical डिज़्नी  film starring Julie Andrews and Dick Van Dyke .
In 2004 , Disney Theatrical  उत्पादित a स्टेज musical अनुकूलन in the वेस्ट समाप्त थिएटर  .
The stage musical was transferred to  ब्रॉडवे in 2006 जहाँ it भागा जबतक इसके closing  on March 3 , 2013 .
It has  महरूम अत्यधिक कामयाब , as  was the 1964 film .
The Last  सोंग is a 2010 अमरीकी coming of आयु टीन रोमांटिक नाटक फिल्मी  developed alongside Nicholas Sparks ' novel by the same name .
the फिल्मी थी निर्देशित by जूली ऐनी रॉबिन्सन in उसके  feature film directorial debut and co-written by Sparks and Jeff Van Wie .
The Last Song stars Miley Cyrus , Liam Hemsworth , and Greg Kinnear and follows a troubled teenager as she reconnects with her estranged father and falls  in प्रेम दौरान a गर्मियाँ in a शांत दक्षिणी संयुक्त राज्य बीच कस्बा  .
The  फिल्मी is वितरित by touchstone  Pictures .
Sparks was approached to write both the  फिल्मी 's पटकथा और the अनोखा  .
स्पार्क्स समाप्त the पटकथा in जनवरी 2009 , prior to the पूर्णता of the  novel , making The Last Song his first script to be optioned for film .
The setting , originally in North Carolina like the novel ,  स्थानांतरित to जॉर्जिया बाद the राज्य था campaigned लिये महीने to मेजबान उत्पादन  .
Upon beginning production in  tybee द्वीप , जॉर्जिया और आसपास savannah , the पिछला सोंग became the पहला  movie to be both shot and set in Tybee Island .
Filming lasted from June  15 to अगस्त 18 , 2009 साथ much of  it occurring on the island 's beach and pier .
The Last Song was originally scheduled for wide  रिलीज on जनवरी 8 , 2010  , but was postponed to March 31 , 2010 .
लिखा simlish
Simlish is a fictional  भाषा प्रदर्शित in ea खेल  ' Sim series of games .
It debuted in SimCopter , and has been especially  prominent in the सीम , the सीम 2 और the  Sims 3 .
the सीम विकास टोली निर्मित the अद्वितीय simlish भाषा  by experimenting with fractured Ukrainian , French , Latin , Finnish , English , Fijian , Cebuano , and Tagalog .
simlish can भी be सुना in simcity 4 , simcity  Societies and SimCity 2013 , but far less frequently .
Civilized Creatures in  spore can भी be सिखाया  to speak Simlish .
It is  भी प्रदर्शित to an extent  in Firaxis Games ' Sid Meier 's SimGolf .
पंक्तियां होगा राइट थी सचेत of the need लिये संवाद in the खेल  , but thought that using a real language would make it sound too repetitive and would also be too costly to hire translators for world languages .
Initially , inspired by the Native  अमरीकी कोड talkers of संसार युद्ध ii , सीम निर्माता होगा राइट और भाषा विशेषज्ञ मार्क gimbel  suggested experimenting with the Navajo language to create Simlish .
However , they ultimately decided that  simlish worked बेहतरीन as a `` भाषा '' बना up of gibberish शब्द कि could n't be अनूदित , so कि इसके  meaning would be left open to the imagination of the player .
Wright later commented that using ``  बकवास भाषा '' turned आउट to be the सही विकास चुनाव , as लोगों यहूद सक्षम of  imagining it more realistically than a computer could simulate a real one .
The  वास्तविक ध्वनि of simlish थी निर्मित improvisationally  by voice actors Stephen Kearin and Gerri Lawlor .
An example of Ultrasonic Testing ( UT )  on ब्लेड जड़ें of a v2500 iae वायुयान  engine .
Step 1 : The UT probe is  लगाई on the रूट of the ब्लेड to be inspected साथ the सहायता of a खास borescope  tool ( video probe ) .
Step  2 : यंत्र जमावट  are input .
Step  3 : the जांच is  scanned over the blade root .
In this case , an indication ( peak in the data ) through the red  लकीर ( or फाटक ) indicates a शुभ ब्लेड ; an indication  to the left of that range indicates a crack .
Principle of  अल्ट्रासोनिक परीक्षण .
LEFT : A probe sends a sound  वेव into a परीक्षण सामग्री  .
There are two indications , one from the initial pulse of the probe , and  the दूसरी due to the वापस वॉल गूंज  .
RIGHT : A defect creates a third indication and  simultaneously reduces the आयाम of the वापस वॉल indication  .
The depth of the defect is  संकल्पित by the अनुपात d/e
In ultrasonic testing (  ut ) , बहुत छोटी अल्ट्रासोनिक pulse-waves साथ बीच बारंबारता  ranging from 0.1-15 MHz and occasionally up to 50 MHz are launched into materials to detect internal flaws or to characterize materials .
A common example  is अल्ट्रासोनिक मोटाई मापन , जिससे परीक्षण the मोटाई  of the test object , for example , to monitor pipework corrosion .
Ultrasonic testing is often  performed on स्टील और अन्य धातुओं और alloys , हालांकि  it can also be used on concrete , wood and composites , albeit with less resolution .
It is a form of non-destructive testing used in many industries including  aerospace , ऑटोमोटिव और अन्य परिवहन सेक्टर  .
The vas deferens ( plural :  vasa deferentia ) , भी पुकारा ductus deferens ( लैटिन : `` carrying-away पोत '' ; बहुवचन : ductus deferentes ) , is भाग of the पुरूष anatomy  of many vertebrates ; they transport sperm from the epididymis in anticipation of ejaculation .
Vascular ischemia of the  toes साथ characteristic cyanosis  .
In medicine , ischemia , also spelled as ischaemia or ischæmia , ( ; from Greek language ισχαιμία , ischaimía ; isch- root denoting a restriction or thinning or  to मेक or grow thin/lean , haema रक्त ) is a प्रतिबंध in रक्त सप्लाई to ऊतकों , causing a shortage of ऑक्सीजन और ग्लूकोज needed लिये सेल्यूलर चयापचय  ( to keep tissue alive ) .
Ischemia is generally caused  by समस्याएं साथ रक्त बरतन , साथ resultant  damage to or dysfunction of tissue .
It also means local anemia in a given part of a  देह sometimes resulting इससे जमघट ( ऐसे  as vasoconstriction , thrombosis or embolism ) .
Down syndrome ( DS ) or Down 's syndrome , also known  as trisomy 21 , is a जेनेटिक विकार caused by the उपस्थिति  of all or part of a third copy of chromosome 21 .
Down syndrome is the  सबसे आम chromosome तबदीली in इंसानो  .
it is typically संबद्ध साथ a विलंब in संज्ञानात्मक क्षमता ( दिमागी retardation , or mr ) और शारीरिक  growth , and a particular set of facial characteristics .
The average IQ of young adults with Down syndrome is around 50 , whereas young adults  बगैर the कंडीशन typically have an iq of 100 .
(  mr रै historically महरूम पारिभाषित  as an IQ below 70 . )
A large proportion of  individuals साथ bas सिंड्रोम  have a severe degree of intellectual disability .
Down syndrome is named after John Langdon  bas , the अंग्रेजों चिकित्सक जो वर्णित the  syndrome in 1866 .
The condition was clinically described earlier by Jean Etienne  dominique esquirol in 1838 और edouard  Seguin in 1844 .
Down syndrome was  पहचाना as a chromosome 21 trisomy by dr.  Jérôme Lejeune in 1959 .
Down syndrome can be identified in a baby  at जनम or पहले जनम by prenatal  screening .
Pregnancies with  इस निदान हैं  often terminated .
The CDC estimates that about one of every  691 शिशु born in the संयुक्त राज्य  each year is born with Down syndrome .
Many children with Down syndrome are educated in regular school classes while  अन्य आवश्यकता specialised शैक्षणिक सुविधाएं  .
Some children graduate from high school ,  और , in the us , वहीँ हैं increasing अवसर लिये  participating in post-secondary education .
Education and  उचित परवाह रै महरूम दिखाया to improve विशेषता  of life significantly .
Many adults with Down Syndrome are able to work at paid  नियुक्ति in the जातियाँ , जबकि अन्य आवश्यकता a अधिक sheltered कार्य  environment .
Hot flashes ( also known as  hot flushes , or रात्रि sweats if वे happen at रात्रि ) हैं a लक्षण जिससे may have अनेक  other causes , but which is often caused by the changing hormone levels that are characteristic of menopause .
The Servicemen 's  readjustment अधिनियम of 1944 ( p.l . 78-346 , 58 स्टेट . 284m ) , ज्ञात informally as the  G.I . Bill , was a law that provided a range of benefits for returning World War II veterans ( commonly referred to as G.I.s ) .
Benefits included low-cost mortgages , low-interest loans to start a business or farm , cash payments of tuition  और जीना खर्च to attend कॉलेज , ऊँची स्कूल or वोकेशनल शिक्षा , as खूब  as one year of unemployment compensation .
It was available to every veteran who had been on active duty during the war  सालो लिये at तनिक नब्बे दिनों और था नहीं महरूम dishonorably  discharged ; combat was not required .
By the end of the program in 1956 , roughly 2.2 million  दिग्गजों था प्रयुक्त the g.i . विधेयक शिक्षा लाभ in अनुक्रम to attend  colleges or universities , and an additional 6.6 million used these benefits for some kind of training program .
चूंकि the असली 1944 विधि , the पद रै आइये to शामिल अन्य दिग्गज लाभ कार्यक्रम  created to assist veterans of subsequent wars as well as peacetime service .
Historians  और अर्थशास्त्रियों consider the g.i . विधेयक a प्रमुख राजनैतिक success—especially in कंट्रास्ट  to the treatments of World War I veterans—and a major contribution to America 's stock of human capital that sped long-term economic growth .
The Watergate scandal was a political scandal that occurred in the United States in the 1970s as a result of the June 17 , 1972 break-in at the Democratic  नेशनल कमेटी मुख्यालय at the वाटरगेट दफ्तर जटिल in वॉशिंगटन , d.C. , और the निक्सन प्रशासन 's attempted cover-up of इसके भागीदारी  .
The scandal  आखिरकार led to the इस्तीफा of रिचर्ड निक्सन , the अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य , on अगस्त  9 , 1974 — the only resignation of a U.S. President .
The  कांड भी resulted in the indictment , विचारण , conviction , और incarceration of  forty-three persons , dozens of whom were Nixon 's top administration officials .
The affair began with the  गिरफ़्तार of पाँच मेन लिये तोड़कर और प्रवेश into the लोकतांत्रिक नेशनल कमेटी  ( DNC ) headquarters at the Watergate complex on June 17 , 1972 .
The Federal Bureau of Investigation ( FBI ) connected cash found on the burglars to a  slush निधि प्रयुक्त by the कमेटी लिये the re-election of the अध्यक्ष , the आधिकारिक संगठन  of Nixon 's campaign .
In July 1973 , as evidence mounted against the president 's staff ,  सहित गवाही provided by पूर्व स्टाफ सदस्यों in an छानबीन conducted by the सीनेट वाटरगेट कमेटी , it थी नाज़िल कि अध्यक्ष निक्सन था a tape-recording  system in his offices and he had recorded many conversations .
Recordings from these tapes  implicated the अध्यक्ष , revealing he था attempted to कवर up the questionable ( और illegal  ) goings-on that had taken place during his administration , both before and after the break-in .
बाद a protracted श्रेणी of कड़वा अदालत लड़ाइयों , the u.S. परम् अदालत  unanimously ruled that the president had to hand over the tapes to government investigators ; he ultimately complied .
Facing near-certain impeachment in the House of Representatives and a strong  सम्भावना of a conviction in the सीनेट , निक्सन resigned the प्रेसिडेंसी  on August 9 , 1974 .
His successor , Gerald Ford ,  तब जारी a pardon to उसे  .
Elizabeth Imogene Webber ( formerly Lansing  और स्पेंसर ) is a fictional अक्षर on the एबीसी दिन साबुन ओपेरा  General Hospital .
Elizabeth is the granddaughter of Dr. Steve Hardy ( John Beradino ) ,  एक of the originating कोर वर्ण of the  series .
Rebecca Herbst originated the character on  अगस्त 1 , 1997 और रै महरूम the तभी  contract actress to play the role .
Elizabeth is part of two supercouple pairings , Lucky Spencer and  एलिज़ाबेथ webber और जेसन मॉर्गन और एलिज़ाबेथ  Webber .
The United States presidency of Ronald Reagan , also known  as the reagan प्रशासन , थी a रिपब्लिकन प्रशासन headed by रोनाल्ड reagan इससे जनवरी  20 , 1981 , to January 20 , 1989 .
Domestically , the administration favored reducing government  कार्यक्रम और introduced the largest across-the-board कर कटौती in अमरीकी इतिहास  .
The economic policies  enacted in 1981 , ज्ञात as `` reaganomics `` , यहूद an उदाहरण of  supply-side economics .
Reagan aimed to encourage  उद्यमिता और सीमा the विकास of सोशल बिता , as खूब as the कटौती  of regulation and inflation .
Economic growth saw a strong recovery in the 1980s ,  helping reagan to जीत a भूस्खलन re-election  .
The  नेशनल कर्ज़ increased  significantly , however .
Regarding foreign policy , the administration was  steadfastly anti-communist , कॉलिंग the सोवियत संघ an `` दुष्ट  empire `` and ending 1970s détente .
Reagan accelerated the massive  buildup of the सैन्य प्रारंभ by उसके पूर्ववर्ती  , including an invasion of Grenada , the first major overseas action by U.S. troops since the end of the Vietnam War .
The `` Reagan  doctrine `` controversially granted सहायता to अर्धसैनिक शक्तियां seeking to फेकने  communist governments , particularly in war-torn Central America and Afghanistan .
Reagan also promoted new technologies such as  मिसाइल रक्षा प्रणालियों in अनुक्रम to confront the soviets और उनके  allies .
In diplomacy , Reagan forged a strong  गठबंधन साथ uk प्रधान मंत्री मार्गरेट थैचर , और he मिले साथ सोवियत सामान्य सचिव मिखाइल  Gorbachev four times , aiming to shrink the superpowers ' nuclear arsenals .
Reagan 's presidency has been termed the `` Reagan  क्रान्ति '' , or the आयु of reagan in मान्यता of the राजनैतिक realignment दोनो भीतर और  beyond the U.S. in favor of his brand of conservatism and his faith in free markets .
The  reagan प्रशासन worked toward the पतन  of Soviet Communism , and it did collapse just as he left office .
Victory in the Cold  युद्ध led to a unipolar संसार साथ the u.S. as  the world 's sole superpower .
While the  damaging iran-contra affair engulfed अनेक reagan aides दौरान  his second term , Reagan himself left office with a 63 percent approval rating , one of the higher approval ratings of departing presidents .
After years of unstinting praise from the right , and unrelenting criticism  इससे the बाएँ , इतिहासकार दाउद हेनरी पाता कि by 2009 a सर्वसम्मति था उभरा among विद्वानों कि reagan revived कोसा और turned the स्वदेश to the सही by demonstrating a ``  pragmatic conservatism '' that promoted ideology within the constraints imposed by the divided political system .
Furthermore , says Henry , the consensus viewpoint agrees that he revived faith in the presidency and  अमरीकी self-confidence , और contributed critically to समाप्ति the ठंडा  War .
Crude death  रेट by देश (  2006 ) .
मृत्यु रेट is a माप of the क्रमांक of मौतों  ( in general , or due to a specific cause ) in a population .
Scaled to the size of that  जनसांख्यिकी , प्रति ईकाई of  time .
Mortality rate is typically  expressed in इकाई of मौतों प्रति 1000 individuals प्रति साल ; यूँ , a मृत्यु रेट of 9.5  ( out of 1000 ) in a population of 1,000 would mean 9.5 deaths per year in that entire population , or 0.95 % out of the total .
It is distinct from  morbidity रेट , जिससे refers to the क्रमांक of individuals in ग़रीब स्वास्थ्य दौरान a दिए समय काल  ( the prevalence rate ) or the number of newly appearing cases of the disease per unit of time ( incidence rate ) .
The term `` mortality `` is also sometimes  inappropriately प्रयुक्त to refer to the क्रमांक of मौतों among a नियत of diagnosed हॉस्पिटल मामले  for a disease or injury , rather than for the general population of a country or ethnic group .
This disease mortality  statistic is अधिक precisely referred to as `` मामला fatality  rate `` ( CFR ) .
One  distinguishes:
The crude  मौत रेट , the कुल क्रमांक of मौतों प्रति साल  per 1000 people .
the crude death rate for the whole world is about 8.37 per 1000  प्रति साल according to the वर्तमान सीआईए संसार factbook  .
the perinatal  mortality rate , the sum of neonatal deaths and fetal deaths ( stillbirths ) per 1000 births .
the मातृ मृत्यु अनुपात , the क्रमांक of  maternal deaths per 100,000 live births in same time period .
The maternal mortality  रेट , the क्रमांक of मातृ मौतों प्रति 1,000 महिलाओं of reproductive  age in the population ( generally defined as 15–44 years of age ) .
The infant mortality rate , the number of  मौतों of children कम than 1 साल बूढ़ा प्रति  1000 live births .
The child mortality rate , the number  of मौतों of children कम than 5 सालो  old per 1000 live births .
The standardised mortality ratio (  smr ) - इस represents a आंशिक तुलना to the संख्याएँ of मौतों कि होता  have been expected if the population had been of a standard composition in terms of age , gender , etc .
The age-specific mortality rate ( ASMR )  - इस refers to the कुल क्रमांक of मौतों प्रति साल प्रति  1000 people of a given age ( e.g . age 62 last birthday ) .
In regard to the or failure of  चिकित्सा उपचार or प्रक्रियाओं , एक होता  also distinguish:
The early mortality rate , the total number of deaths in the early  चरण of an जारी उपचार , or in the काल तत्काल following  an treatment .
The late mortality rate , the total number of deaths  in the लेट चरण of an जारी उपचार , or a significant लंबाई of समय बाद  an acute treatment .
Note that the crude death rate as defined above  और लागू to a पूरे जनसांख्यिकी can दे a भ्रामक  impression .
The crude death rate depends on the age ( and  लिंग ) विशिष्ट मृत्यु दरों और the आयु ( और लिंग ) वितरण of the  population .
the क्रमांक of मौतों प्रति 1000 लोगों can be उच्चतर लिये विकसित राष्ट्र than in less-developed  countries , despite life expectancy being higher in developed countries due to standards of health being better .
This happens because  विकसित देशों typically have a completely अलग जनसांख्यिकी आयु वितरण , साथ a much उच्चतर proportion  of older people , due to both lower recent birth rates and lower mortality rates .
A more complete picture of mortality is given by a life  तालिका जिससे shows the मृत्यु रेट separately लिये  each age .
A life table is necessary to  दे a शुभ अनुमान of जीवन  expectancy .
An otoacoustic emission ( OAE ) is a sound which is  उत्पन्न इससे भीतर the भीतरी कान .
Having been predicted by Thomas Gold in 1948 , its existence was first demonstrated  experimentally by दाउद kemp in 1978 और otoacoustic emissions have चूंकि महरूम दिखाया to उठता  by a number of different cellular mechanisms within the inner ear .
Studies have shown that OAEs disappear after the inner ear has been damaged , so OAEs are often used  in the प्रयोगशाला और the क्लिनिक as a माप of भीतरी  ear health .
Broadly  बोलना , वहीँ हैं दो प्रकार of otoacoustic emissions : spontaneous otoacoustic  emissions ( SOAEs ) , which can occur without external stimulation , and evoked otoacoustic emissions ( EOAEs ) , which require an evoking stimulus .
Hurricane Tomas was  the उन्नीसवीं नामित तूफ़ान और बारहवीं hurricane  of the 2010 Atlantic hurricane season .
Tomas developed from a tropical wave  ईस्ट of the windward आइलैंड्स on अक्तूबर  29 .
Quickly intensifying into a hurricane , it moved through the  windward आइलैंड्स और passed बहुत निकट संत लूसिया .
After reaching  श्रेणी 2 औकात on the saffir-simpson स्केल , टॉमस जल्दी  weakened to a tropical storm in the central Caribbean Sea , due to strong wind shear and dry air .
Tomas  बाद regained hurricane औकात as  it reorganized near the Windward passage .
Throughout the hurricane 's  पाथ , 71 लोगों हैं ज्ञात to have महरूम मारे , 14 of  whom were in Saint Lucia .
Monetary losses throughout the  windward आइलैंड्स यहूद अनुमानित at us $ 588 लाख  , mainly in Saint Lucia .
In  the वेक of the तूफ़ान in हैती , बाढ़ intensified an जारी हैजा  outbreak indirectly causing more fatalities .
According to a report released in December 2010 ,  55 लोगों यहूद मारे in क्यूबा और hispanola , हालांकि  the distribution of these fatalities are unknown .
Overall damage from  the तूफ़ान थी at तनिक $  741 million .
Victoria Jackson (  born अगस्त 2 , 1959 ) is an अमरीकी हास्य , अभिनेत्री , satirist , सिंगर  and internet blogger best known as a cast member of the NBC television sketch comedy series Saturday Night Live ( SNL ) from 1986 to 1992 .
She has  प्राप्त ध्यान as a गायन आलोचक of अध्यक्ष बराक ओबामा  , and is an active participant in the Tea Party movement .
Postmodern literature is literature characterized by heavy reliance on  तकनीकों जैसे fragmentation , विरोधाभास , और questionable narrators , और  is often ( though not exclusively ) defined as a style or trend which emerged in the post–World War II era .
Postmodern works  हैं देखी as a प्रतिक्रिया विरूद्ध आत्मज्ञान सोच  and Modernist approaches to literature .
Postmodern literature ,  जैसे postmodernism as a पूरे , tends to resist परिभाषा or वर्गीकरण  as a `` movement '' .
Indeed , the convergence of postmodern literature with various modes of critical theory , particularly reader-response and deconstructionist approaches , and the subversions of the implicit contract between author , text and reader by  जिससे इसके works हैं प्रायः characterised , have led to pre-modern fictions ऐसे as cervantes ' डॉन quixote ( 1605,1615 ) और laurence sterne 's eighteenth-century व्यंग्य tristram shandy होने retrospectively  inducted into the fold .
While there is little consensus on the precise characteristics , scope , and importance of  postmodern साहित्य , as is प्रायः the  case with artistic movements , postmodern literature is commonly defined in relation to a precursor .
For example , a postmodern literary work tends not to conclude with the neatly  tied-up समाप्ति as is प्रायः मिला in modernist साहित्य , लकिन प्रायः  parodies it .
Postmodern authors  tend to celebrate मौका over शिल्प , और further employ  metafiction to undermine the writer 's authority .
Another characteristic of postmodern literature is  the questioning of भेद between ऊँची और कम संस्कृति through the उपयोग of pastiche , the संयोजन of विषय  and genres not previously deemed fit for literature .
Enigma is an electronic musical  प्रोजेक्ट संस्थापित in जर्मनी by माइकल cretu  , David Fairstein and Frank Peterson in 1990 .
The Romanian-born Cretu conceived the Enigma project while working in Germany , but based his recording studio A.R.T . Studios in  ibiza , स्पेन , इससे the जल्दी 1990s जबतक may 2009 , जहाँ he रै अंकित सब of पहेली 's स्टुडियो रिलीज  to date .
Cretu  is दोनो the composer और  the producer of the project .
His former wife , pop  सिंगर सैंड्रा , प्रायः provided  vocals on Enigma tracks .
Jens Gad  co-arranged और निभाई गिटार on तीन of the पहेली  albums .
Peter Cornelius also  contributed to पहेली दौरान the  1990s .
Seven studio albums have been  उत्पादित अंतर्गत  the name of the project .
Scooby-Doo  is an अमरीकी एनिमेटेड कार्टून मताधिकार , comprising अनेक  animated television series produced from 1969 to the present day .
The  असली श्रेणी , scooby-doo  , Where Are You !
, was created for Hanna-Barbera Productions  by लेखक जो माणिक्य और केन स्पीयर्स in 1969  .
This Saturday morning cartoon  श्रेणी प्रदर्शित चार teenagers— फ्रेड जोन्स , daphne ब्लेक , velma dinkley , और norville `` shaggy '' रोजर्स — और उनके talking भूरा ग्रेट डेन श्वान नामित scooby-doo  , who solve mysteries involving supposedly supernatural creatures through a series of antics and missteps .
Following the success of the original series , Hanna-Barbera and its successor Warner Bros .  एनिमेशन have उत्पादित numerous follow-up और spin-off एनिमेटेड श्रेणी और अनेक सम्बन्धित works , सहित टेलीविज़न specials और telefilms , a लकीर  of direct-to-video films , and two Warner Bros. –produced theatrical feature films .
Some versions of Scooby-Doo feature different variations on the show 's supernatural theme , and include  वर्ण ऐसे as स्कूबी 's cousin scooby-dum और भतीजे scrappy-doo in जोड to or बजाय  of some of the original characters .
Scooby-Doo was originally broadcast on  सीबीएस इससे 1969 to 1976 , जब it स्थानांतरित to  ABC .
ABC aired the show  जबतक canceling it in 1986 , और प्रस्तुत a spin-off featuring the वर्ण  as children , A Pup Named Scooby-Doo , from 1988 until 1991 .
Two  नई scooby-doo श्रेणी , कया  's New , Scooby-Doo ?
and Shaggy and Scooby-Doo Get a a Clue  ! ] ] , aired as भाग of बच्चे wb on the wb संजाल  and its successor , The CW network , from 2002 until 2008 .
The most recent Scooby-Doo  श्रेणी , scooby-doo !
Mystery Incorporated , aired  on कार्टून संजाल इससे 2010 to 2013  .
Repeats of the various Scooby-Doo series are  ब्रॉडकास्ट अक्सर on कार्टून संजाल  and Boomerang in the United States and other countries .
Call of Duty  is a first-person और third-person शूटर  computer/ video game franchise .
The series began on the  pc , और बाद विस्तारित to consoles और handhelds  .
अनेक spin-off खेल have  also been released .
The earlier games in the series are  नियत primarily in संसार युद्ध ii , इस शामिल  : Call of Duty , Call of Duty 2 , and Call of Duty 3 .
शुरूआत साथ आधुनिक warfare , जिससे is  set in modern times , the series has shifted focus away from World War II .
Call of Duty 4 : Modern Warfare ( released  नवम्बर 2007 ) थी followed by कॉल of ड्यूटी  : World at War and Call of Duty : Modern Warfare 2 .
ब्लैक ops ( released नवम्बर 2010 ) takes प्लेस in the ठंडा युद्ध , जबकि आधुनिक  Warfare 3 ( released November 2011 ) takes place in the near-future setting .
ब्लैक ops 2 ( released नवम्बर  13 , 2012 ) takes place in the year 2025 .
The Call of Duty games are published and owned by  एक्टिविजन साथ aspyr मीडिया प्रकाशन it लिये ठहराना  OS X .
While the studio Infinity Ward primarily still develops them , Treyarch has also developed  अनेक of the शीर्षक साथ the रिलीज of the studios ' खेल  interlaced with each other .
Some games have been developed by Gray Matter Interactive , Spark  असीमित , विस्मित entertainment , n-space , विद्रोह developments , ideaworks खेल स्टुडियो , sledgehammer खेल और nstigate  Games .
The games use a variety of  इंजन , सहित the id तकनीक 3 , the treyarch ngl ,  and the IW 5.0 .
Other products in the  मताधिकार शामिल a लकीर of कार्रवाई आंकड़े designed by plan-b खिलौने , a कार्ड खेल  created by Upper Deck , and a comic book mini-series published by WildStorm .
as of नवम्बर 11 , 2011 , the कॉल of ड्यूटी  series have sold over 100 million copies .
As of March 31 , 2012 there are 40  लाख मासिक क्रियाशील खिलाड़ी आरपार सब of the कॉल of ड्यूटी शीर्षक , साथ  10 million Call of Duty : Elite users and 2 million paying annual members .
Over 1.6 billion hours of online  gameplay have महरूम logged आधुनिक warfare  3 since its 2011 release .
The estate tax in  the संयुक्त राज्य is a कर imposed on the ट्रांसफ़र of the `` taxable एस्टेट `` of a मृतक व्यक्ति , whether ऐसे प्रॉपर्टी is transferred  via a will , according to the state laws of intestacy or otherwise made as an incident of the death of the owner , such as a transfer of property from an intestate estate or trust , or the payment of certain life insurance benefits or financial account sums to beneficiaries .
The  एस्टेट कर is एक भाग of the एकीकृत तोहफा और एस्टेट  Tax system in the United States .
The other part of the system , the gift  कर , imposes a कर on हस्तांतरण of प्रॉपर्टी दौरान a व्यक्ति 's जीवन ; the तोहफा कर रोकता avoidance of the एस्टेट  tax should a person want to give away his/her estate .
In addition to the federal government ,  अनेक राज्य भी थोपने an एस्टेट कर , साथ the राज्य संस्करण पुकारा either an एस्टेट कर or an उत्तराधिकार  tax .
Opponents of  the एस्टेट कर कॉल it the  `` death tax '' .
If an asset is left  to a जीवनसाथी or a federally पहचाना दान  , the tax usually does not apply .
In addition , up to $ 5,250,000 can be  दिए by an व्यक्तिगत , पहले and/or upon उनके मौत , बगैर रूष्ट  federal gift or estate taxes .
Gavin McGregor  rossdale ( born 30 अक्तूबर 1967 ) is an अंग्रेज़ी कर्ता और संगीतकार , ज्ञात  as the lead singer and rhythm guitarist of the rock band Bush .
Following Bush 's separation in 2002 , which  lasted लिये आठ सालो , he थी the सीसे सिंगर और guitarist लिये संस्थान ,  and later began a solo career .
When performing solo , Gavin  plays गीतों इससे उसके extensive musical  libraries .
Rossdale has been ranked in the Top 100  भारी मेटल vocalists by hit parader  ( # 75 ) .
raffaello sanzio da urbino ( अप्रैल 6 or कूच 28 , 1483 – अप्रैल  6 , 1520 ) , better known simply as Raphael , was an Italian painter and architect of the High Renaissance .
His  कार्य is admired लिये इसके स्पष्टता of रूप और आसानी of संयोजन और  for its visual achievement of the Neoplatonic ideal of human grandeur .
Together with  michelangelo और लियोनार्डो da विंची , he फ़ॉर्म the परंपरागत ट्रिनिटी  of great masters of that period .
Raphael was enormously productive , running an unusually large  कार्यशाला , और despite उसके मौत at 37 , a विशाल देह of उसके  work remains .
Many of his works are found in the Vatican Palace , where the  frescoed राफेल कक्ष यहूद the सेंट्रल , और the largest  , work of his career .
The best known work is The School of Athens in  the वेटिकन stanza देला segnatura  .
After his early  सालो in रोम much of उसके कार्य थी self-designed , लकिन लिये the सबसे  part executed by the workshop from his drawings , with considerable loss of quality .
He was extremely  influential in उसके आजीवन , हालांकि बाहर रोम उसके कार्य थी ज़्यादातर  known from his collaborative printmaking .
After his death , the influence of his great rival Michelangelo was more widespread until the 18th and 19th  सदियां , जब राफेल 's अधिक निर्मल और समन्वयात्मक qualities यहूद again regarded  as the highest models .
His career falls naturally into three phases and three styles , first described by Giorgio Vasari : his early years in Umbria , then a period of about four years ( from 1504–1508 ) absorbing the artistic traditions of  फ्लोरेंस , followed by उसके पिछला hectic और triumphant बारह सालो in रोम , working लिये दो popes और  their close associates .
Julia Fiona Roberts ( born October 28 ,  1967 ) is an अमरीकी अभिनेत्री  .
She  became a हॉलीवुड स्टार बाद headlining the रोमांटिक कॉमेडी  Pretty Woman ( 1990 ) , which grossed $ 464 million worldwide .
After receiving Golden Globe Awards and Academy Award nominations for Steel Magnolias ( 1989 )  और pretty स्त्री , वो जीती the अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन अभिनेत्री लिये उसके प्रदर्शन in एरिन brockovich (  2000 ) .
Her films The Pelican Brief (  1993 ) , my बेहतरीन dost 's विवाह ( 1997 ) , रहस्यवादी पिज़्ज़ा ( 1988 ) , नॉटिंग हिल ( 1999 ) , runaway बहू ( 1999 ) , समंदर 's ग्यारह ( 2001 ) , समंदर 's बारह ( 2004 ) , चार्ली विल्सन 's युद्ध  ( 2007 ) , Valentine 's Day ( 2010 ) , Eat Pray Love ( 2010 ) , and Mirror Mirror ( 2012 ) have collectively brought box office receipts of over $ 2.6 billion , making her one of the most successful actresses in terms of box office receipts .
Roberts had become one of the highest-paid actresses  in the संसार , टॉपिंग the हॉलीवुड पत्रकारों  annual `` power list '' of top-earning female stars from 2005 to 2006 .
Her fee for 1990 's Pretty Woman was $ 300,000 ; in 2003 , she was paid an  unprecedented $ 25 लाख लिये उसके भूमिका in mona लिसा मुस्कान (  2003 ) .
As of 2010 , Roberts 's  जाल लायक थी अनुमानित to be $ 140  million .
Roberts has been named  एक of लोगों पत्रिका 's `` 50 सबसे खूबसूरत  People in the World '' eleven times , tied with Halle Berry .
In 2011 , she was named one of  the `` 100 hottest महिलाओं  of All-Time '' by Men 's Health .
In 2001 ,  महिलाओं घर जर्नल क्रमित उसके as the 11th  most powerful woman in the United States .
Mark Elliot Zuckerberg ( born May 14 , 1984 ) is an  अमरीकी कंप्यूटर प्रोग्रामर और अंतरजाल  entrepreneur .
He is best known as one of five  co-founders of the सोशल नेटवर्किंग जालस्थल  Facebook .
As of April 2013 , Zuckerberg is the  अध्यक्ष और मुख्य कार्यपालिका of फेसबुक , inc. और  in 2013 his personal wealth was estimated to be US $ 13 .3 billion .
Together with his college roommates and fellow Harvard University students Eduardo Saverin  , एंड्रयू mccollum , डस्टिन moskovitz और क्रिस ह्यूजेस , zuckerberg शुभारम्भ फेसबुक इससे  Harvard 's dormitory rooms .
The group then introduced Facebook  onto अन्य campuses देशभर और स्थानांतरित to पालो आल्टो , कैलिफ़ोर्निया , संयुक्त राज्य  ( U.S. ) shortly afterwards .
In 2007 , at the age of twenty-three years , Zuckerberg became a billionaire as a result of Facebook and the number of Facebook  उपयोक्ता विश्वव्यापी पहुँचे a कुल of एक अरब in  2012 .
Zuckerberg was involved in various legal disputes that were initiated by others in the group , who  claimed a share of the कम्पनी आधारित upon उनके भागीदारी दौरान the विकास  phase of Facebook .
Since 2010 , Zuckerberg  रै महरूम नामित among the 100 wealthiest और सबसे influential लोगों in the संसार by समय पत्रिका  as a part of its Person of the Year accolade .
Zuckerberg  थी निभाई by कर्ता जेसी eisenberg in the 2010 हॉलीवुड फिल्मी  The Social Network in which the rise of Facebook is portrayed .
The  mayflower थी the जलयान कि in 1620 transported 102 अंग्रेज़ी तीर्थयात्रियों , सहित  a core group of Separatists , to New England .
Their story is one of travail and  अस्तित्व in a हर्ष नई संसार  environment .
framedthe
Committee of Ways and Means  is the मुख्य कर -writing कमेटी of the संयुक्त राज्य हाउस  of Representatives .
सदस्यों of the तरीके और अर्थात् कमेटी हैं नहीं अनुमत to serve on कोई अन्य हाउस समितियों जबतक वे  apply for a waiver from their party 's congressional leadership .
The Committee has jurisdiction over all taxation ,  tariffs और अन्य revenue-raising  measures , as well as a number of other programs including:
सोशल  Security
बेरोजगारी  benefits
medicare
प्रवर्तन of चाइल्ड  support laws
Temporary  सहायता लिये मोहताज परिवारों , a संघीय  welfare program
फोस्टर परवाह और अपनाना  programs
The U.S. Constitution  requires कि सब बिल्स regarding कराधान जरूर originate  in the House of Representatives .
Since House procedure is that all bills regarding taxation must go through this committee , the  कमेटी is बहुत influential , as is इसके सीनेट बंटवारा , the u.S. सीनेट कमेटी on वित्त  .
The Ways and Means  कमेटी in the 111th कॉंग्रेस थी chaired by चार्ली rangel , जो था लिया  a leave of absence as chairman until House ethics violations were resolved .
However , his leave of absence as  अध्यक्ष थी शासित to be a इस्तीफा  .
Pete Stark resigned as acting chairman , so Sander Levin  आयोजित कि स्थिति जबतक the प्रारंभ  of the 112th Congress .
Dave Camp became  the कमेटी कुर्सी लिये the 112th कॉंग्रेस , बाद the republicans  won control of the House in the 2010 election .
The blue whale ( Balaenoptera musculus )  is a समुद्री स्तनधारी belonging to the suborder  of baleen whales ( called Mysticeti ) .
At in length and or more in weight , it is the  largest ज्ञात एनिमल to have कभी existed  .
Long and slender , the blue whale 's body can be various  शेड्स of bluish-grey dorsally और somewhat हल्का underneath  .
There are at least three distinct subspecies : B. m. musculus of the North Atlantic and North Pacific , B.  m. intermedia of the दक्षिणी समंदर और B. m. brevicauda ( भी ज्ञात as the सानो ब्लू व्हेल ) मिला  in the Indian Ocean and South Pacific Ocean .
B. m. indica , found in the  भारतीय समंदर , may be another subspecies  .
As with other baleen  whales , इसके आहार consists लगभग exclusively  of small crustaceans known as krill .
Blue whales were abundant in nearly  सब the महासागर on धरती जबतक the शुरूआत of the बीसवीं सदी  .
For over a century , they were hunted almost to extinction  by whalers जबतक सुरक्षित by the अंतरराष्ट्रीय  community in 1966 .
A 2002 report estimated there were 5,000 to 12,000  ब्लू whales विश्वव्यापी , स्तिथ in at  least five groups .
More recent  शोध into the सानो subspecies suggests  this may be an underestimate .
Before whaling , the largest  जनसांख्यिकी थी in the अंटार्कटिक , क्रमांकन लगभग 239,000  ( range 202,000 to 311,000 ) .
There remain only much smaller ( around 2,000 )  एकाग्रता in प्रत्येक of the पूर्वी उत्तर प्रशांत , अंटार्कटिक , और भारतीय समंदर समूह  .
There are two more  समूह in the उत्तर अटलांटिक , और  at least two in the Southern Hemisphere .
The globe artichoke ( Cynara  cardunculus var . scolymus ) is a किस्में  of a species of thistle cultivated as a food .
The  खाद्य पदार्थ is कलियों कि रूप  within the flower heads before the flowers come into bloom .
The buds go away or change to  a coarse , मुश्किल खाद्य रूप  when the flower blooms .
The uncultivated  or जंगली किस्में of the प्रजाति  is called a cardoon .
It  is a बारहमासी संयंत्र देशी to the  Mediterranean region .
The United States one hundred-dollar bill ( $ 100 ) is a denomination  of संयुक्त राज्य करेंसी .
U.S. statesman , inventor , and diplomat  बेंजामिन फ्रैंकलिन is फिलहाल प्रदर्शित on the obverse  of the bill .
On the reverse of  the banknote is an चित्र of  Independence Hall .
The $ 100 bill is the largest denomination that has been printed since July 13 ,  1969 , जब the denominations of $ 500 , $ 1,000 , $ 5,000 , और $ 10,000 यहूद रिटायर्ड  .
The Bureau of Engraving and Printing says the average life  of a $ 100 विधेयक in परिसंचरण is 90 महीने ( 7.5 सालो ) पहले it is replaced  due to wear and tear .
The bills are also commonly referred to as `` Benjamins '' , in reference to the use of Benjamin  फ्रैंकलिन 's पोर्ट्रेट on the denomination , or `` c-notes '' , आधारित on the रोमन numeral लिये  100 .
The bill is one of two denominations printed today that does not feature a President of the United  राज्य ; the अन्य is the $ 10 विधेयक , featuring सिकंदर हैमिल्टन  .
The time on the clock of Independence Hall on the reverse ,  according to the u.S. ब्यूरो of नक्काशी और मुद्रण , shows लगभग  4:10 .
One hundred hundred-dollar bills are delivered by Federal Reserve Banks in  mustard-colored straps ( $ 10,000  ) .
The Series 2009 $ 100 bill redesign was unveiled on April 21 , 2010 , and was  to be जारी to the पब्लिक on फ़रवरी 11 , 2011 , लकिन उत्पादन थी shut bas in दिसम्बर 2010 क्युकी as अनेक as 30 % यहूद  unusable due to a manufacturing flaw .
A vertical crease  in the पेपर reveals a  blank space on the bill when pulled out .
In their replacement , and continuing the  ऊँची माँग of इस denomination , the श्रेणी 2006a थी शुभारम्भ retaining the पिछला  design ( 1996-generation ) .
On April 24 , 2013 , the Federal  आरक्षित घोषित the नई $ 100 विधेयक  would enter circulation on October 8 , 2013 .
King  दाउद in robes of  a Byzantine emperor .
miniature  from the Paris Psalter .
David ( ; ISO 259-3 Dawid ; ' ; Strong 's : Daveed ) according to the Hebrew Bible , was the second king of the United  किंगडम of इसराईल , और according to the नई वसीयत gospels of मैथ्यू और ल्यूक  , an ancestor of Jesus .
His life is conventionally dated to c. 1040–970 BCE , his reign over Judah c.  1010–1002 bce , और उसके शासनकाल over the संयुक्त  Kingdom of Israel c. 1002–970 BCE .
The Books of Samuel , 1 Kings , and 1 Chronicles are  the तभी स्त्रोत of सूचना on दाउद , हालांकि the tel डान stele ( दिनाँक c. 850–835 bce ) contains the phrase ( bytdwd  ) , read as `` House of David '' , which most scholars take as confirmation of the existence in the mid-9th century BCE of a Judean royal dynasty called the House of David .
He is depicted as a righteous  किंग , हालांकि नहीं बगैर त्रुटियां , as खूब as an acclaimed योद्धा , संगीतकार ,  and poet , traditionally credited for composing many of the psalms contained in the Book of Psalms .
David is central to Jewish , Christian , and  इस्लामी doctrine और संस्कृति  .
Biblical tradition maintains that  a सीधा वंशज of दाउद होगा be the मसीहा  .
In  islam he is माना to be  a prophet and the king of a nation .
Kathmandu ( ; ) is the capital  और largest शहरी agglomerate of नेपाल  .
The agglomerate consists of Kathmandu  महानगर नगर at इसके कोर , और इसके सिस्टर शहरों patan , kirtipur , thimi  , and Bhaktapur .
It also includes the recently recognized  शहरी क्षेत्रों of shankhapur , karyabinayak , और champapur  .
Banepa , Dhulikhel , and Panauti are satellite urban areas of Kathmandu  स्तिथ बस बाहर the काठमांडू  valley .
Kathmandu is also  ज्ञात informally as `` ktm  '' or the `` tri-city '' .
According to a  जनसांख्यिकी conducted in 2011 , काठमांडू metropolis अलोन रै 975,453 निवासियों  ; and the agglomerate has a population of more than 2.5 million inhabitants .
The metropolitan city area  is और रै a जनसांख्यिकी घनत्व of 19,250  per km2 .
The city stands at an  उन्नयन of लगभग in the bowl-shaped काठमांडू घाटी of सेंट्रल नेपाल  .
It is surrounded by  चार प्रमुख kyu : shivapuri  , Phulchoki , Nagarjun , and Chandragiri .
Kathmandu Valley is part of three districts ( Kathmandu , Lalitpur , and Bhaktapur ) , has the highest population  घनत्व in the देश , और is घर to परिचय a बारहवीं of नेपाल 's जनसांख्यिकी .
During Rana and Shah eras , the name `` Nepal '' referred  तभी to the काठमांडू घाटी ; it थी कया लोगों जो जिया  outside the valley called it .
दौरान इस  period , British historians called the valley itself `` Nepal Proper '' .
Today , Kathmandu is not only the capital of the Federal  लोकतांत्रिक गणतंत्र of नेपाल , लकिन भी the मुख्यालय  of the Central Development Region of Nepal .
The Central Region  comprises तीन zones : bagmati , narayani  , and Janakpur .
Kathmandu is located  in the bagmati  Zone .
Kathmandu  is the गेटवे  to tourism in Nepal .
It is also the  तंत्रिका बीच of the देश  's economy .
It has the most advanced infrastructure of any urban area in  नेपाल , और इसके अर्थव्यवस्था is केन्द्रित on पर्यटन  , which accounted for 3.8 % of Nepal 's GDP in 1995–96 .
( Tourism in  काठमांडू अस्वीकृत thereafter दौरान a काल of राजनैतिक अशांति , लकिन चूंकि  then has improved . )
The city  रै a समृद्ध इतिहास , spanning nearly 2000 सालो  , as inferred from inscriptions found in the valley .
Religious and cultural festivities  रूप a प्रमुख भाग of the जीवनदान of लोगों residing  in Kathmandu .
Most of  काठमांडू 's लोगों follow हिंदुत्व और अनेक  others follow Buddhism .
वहीँ हैं लोगों of अन्य धार्मिक मान्यताओं  as well , giving Kathmandu a cosmopolitan culture .
Nepali  is the सबसे commonly बोला भाषा  in the city .
Nepal Bhasa is the indigenous language  बोला by the नेवार लोगों .
Hindi is  widely समझा और अंग्रेज़ी is समझा  by Kathmandu 's educated residents .
The city 's  साक्षरता रेट is 98 %  .
Kathmandu 's sister cities ( Lalitpur Patan ) and Bhaktapur are integral to Kathmandu 's cultural heritage ,  पर्यटन उद्योग , और अर्थव्यवस्था ; इसलिए युनेस्को 's संसार विरासत साईट सूचियाँ सब तीन शहरों ' स्मारक और आकर्षण  together under one heading , `` Kathmandu Valley- UNESCO World Heritage Site `` .
Field hockey  , प्रायः referred to बस as हॉकी , is a टोली खेल of the हॉकी परिवार जिससे is निभाई between  two teams of eleven players with hockey sticks and a hard , solid plastic ball .
At the turn of the  21st सदी , the खेल is निभाई globally , साथ particular लोकप्रियता throughout यूरोपीय , एशिया , महासागरीय , और दक्षिण अमेरिका – in जोड to होने the नेशनल  sport of Pakistan and India .
The term `` field hockey '' is used primarily in Canada , the United  राज्य , और अन्य regions of the संसार जहाँ the खेल of बर्फ हॉकी  is more popular .
During play , goal keepers are the only players who are allowed to touch the ball with any part of their body ( with the exception of a player 's  हाथ माना 'part of the स्टिक ' ) , साथ इस तभी applying भीतर the शूटिंग वृत्त ( भी ज्ञात as the d , or शूटिंग चाप , or बस the वृत्त )  , while field players play the ball with the flat side of their stick .
The team  कि स्कोर the सबसे लक्ष्य by  the end of the match wins .
If the score is tied at the end of the game , either a draw is declared or  the खेल goes into अतिरिक्त समय and/or a दंड गोलीबारी , depending on the प्रतियोगिता  's format .
The governing body of hockey is the International Hockey Federation ( FIH ) , with men and women being represented  internationally in प्रतियोगिताओं सहित the ओलम्पिक खेल , राष्ट्रमंडल खेल , हॉकी संसार कप , champions ट्रॉफी और जूनियर हॉकी संसार कप , साथ अनेक देशों कार्यशील  extensive junior , senior , and masters ' club competitions .
The FIH is also responsible for  organising the हॉकी नियम फलक और विकासशील  the rules for the sport .
A popular variant of field hockey is  अंदर हॉकी , जिससे differs in a क्रमांक of respects  while embodying the primary principles of hockey .
Indoor hockey is a 6-a-side  रूपांतर , साथ a फ़ील्ड जिससे is घटाया to लगभग 40m  × 20m .
With many of the rules remaining the same , including obstruction and feet , there are several key variations - Players may not raise the ball unless shooting on goal , players may not hit the ball ( instead utilising pushes to transfer  the बॉल )  , and the sidelines are replaced with solid barriers which the ball will rebound off .
Ethan `` Cane '' Ashby ( né Atkinson ) is a fictional  अक्षर इससे the अमरीकी सीबीएस साबुन ओपेरा the यंग  and the Restless .
He is portrayed by Australian  कर्ता डेनियल गोडार्ड , जो originally auditioned लिये ब्रैड स्नाइडर on as the संसार turns लकिन थी अनुशंसित  for a role on The Young and the Restless instead .
The role was to be  portrayed as an अमरीकी , लकिन गोडार्ड  's Australian descent influenced the character 's background .
Former head writer Lynn Marie Latham introduced him during the episode airing on January 12 , 2007 as an Australian  बारटेंडर in ढूंढें of उसके परिवार , a डेब्यू  that received a mixed response .
Latham created Cane as the son of Phillip Chancellor II ( Donnelly Rhodes ) and Jill Foster Abbott ( Jess Walton ) but the  अक्षर 's पृष्ठभूमि थी rewritten by मरिया एरिना घंटी in 2009 , reestablishing उसे as the बेटे of कोलिन और genevieve एटकिन्सन ( ट्रिस्टन रोजर्स और जिनी फ्रांसिस )  .
हालांकि characterized as `` रहस्यमय '' , cane is `` वफ़ादार और समर्पित '' , जबकि गोडार्ड  described the character as a `` typical Australian , working-class kind of guy '' .
He was the first member of the Atkinson  परिवार to appear on the श्रेणी , followed by उसके अभिभावक और  identical twin brother .
Soon  बाद उसके डेब्यू , he became a अग्रणी अक्षर , a  decision praised by viewers and critics .
The character has been involved with Amber Moore ( Adrienne Frantz ) ,  क्लो मिशेल ( एलिज़ाबेथ hendrickson ) और सबसे notably लिली सर्दियों ( christel खलील ) , a रोमांस कि  garnered significant fan attention .
In 2009 , Cane and Lily were married ; Global BC  होता बाद कॉल लिली the प्रेम of cane  's life .
The  जोड़ी था दो children ,  Charlie and Mattie Ashby .
In 2011  , the कर्ता थी fired , और  Cane was shot to death onscreen .
However , Goddard was rehired soon after viewers campaigned for his return , revealing  कि cane 's एकसमान जुड़वा bhai थी in फैक्ट the man जो died  .
इस कुर्बान उसके विवाह to लिली , लकिन the युगल  were remarried on Valentine 's Day in 2012 .
गोडार्ड रै महरूम widely acclaimed लिये उसके portrayal ; canyon न्यूज कहा कि he portrays the  character honestly , and is `` always dependable , on fire and exciting '' .
John  क्रिस्टोफर `` जॉनी '' डेप ii ( born जून 9 , 1963 ) is an अमरीकी  actor , film producer , and musician .
He has won the Golden  ग्लोब पुरस्कार और स्क्रीन अभिनेताओं गिल्ड  award for Best Actor .
डेप रोज़ to prominence on the 1980s टेलीविज़न श्रेणी 21 जम्प  Street , becoming a teen idol .
Dissatisfied with that status  , डेप turned to फिल्मी लिये अधिक चुनौतीपूर्ण भूमिकाएँ ; he निभाई the शीर्षक अक्षर of the acclaimed एडवर्ड scissorhands ( 1990 ) और बाद मिला बक्सा दफ्तर कामयाबी in films ऐसे as sleepy खोखला ( 1999  ) , Charlie and the Chocolate Factory ( 2005 ) , Alice in Wonderland ( 2010 ) , Rango ( 2011 ) and the Pirates of the Caribbean film series ( 2003–present ) .
He has collaborated with  निदेशक और dost टिम बर्टन in आठ films ; the सबसे हाल होने  Dark Shadows ( 2012 ) .
Depp has gained acclaim for his portrayals of such people as Ed Wood in Ed Wood , Joseph D. Pistone in Donnie Brasco , Hunter S. Thompson in Fear and Loathing  in लास वेगास , जार्ज जंग in उड़ा , और the बैंको डाकू जॉन dillinger in माइकल मन 's पब्लिक दुश्मनों  .
Films featuring Depp have grossed  over $ 3.1 अरब at the संयुक्त राज्य बक्सा  office and over $ 7.6 billion worldwide .
He has been nominated for top awards many times , winning the Best Actor Awards from the Golden –_Motion_Picture_Musical_or_Comedy Globes  –_motion_picture_musical_or_comedy लिये स्वीनी टॉड : the राक्षस नाई of बेड़े गली और इससे the स्क्रीन अभिनेताओं गिल्ड लिये pirates of the caribbean  : The Curse of the Black Pearl .
He also has  garnered a sex प्रतीक औकात in अमरीकी सिनेमा , होने twice नामित as  the `` Sexiest Man Alive `` by People magazine in 2003 and 2009 .
He  रै महरूम सूचीबद्ध in the 2012 गिनीज किताब of संसार रिकॉर्ड  as the highest paid actor , with $ 75 million .
The World Wide Web ( abbreviated as WWW or W3 , commonly known as the  वेब ) , is a प्रणाली of interlinked हाइपरटेक्स्ट दस्तावेज़ पहुँचा  via the Internet .
With a web browser , one can view web pages that may contain  टेक्स्ट , बिंब , वीडियो , और  other multimedia , and navigate between them via hyperlinks .
Using concepts from his earlier hypertext systems like ENQUIRE , British engineer , computer scientist and at that time employee of the CERN , Sir Tim  berners-lee , अभी निदेशक of the संसार चौड़ी वेब consortium ( w3c ) , लिखा a प्रस्ताव in कूच 1989 लिये कया होता आखिरकार become the  World Wide Web .
At CERN , a European research organisation near Geneva straddling the border between France and Switzerland , Berners-Lee and Belgian computer scientist Robert Cailliau proposed in 1990 to use  हाइपरटेक्स्ट `` to कड़ी और अभिगम सूचना of विभिन्न kinds as a वेब of नोड in जिससे the  user can browse at will '' , and they publicly introduced the project in December of the same year .
Mark Travis John Sanchez ( born November 11 , 1986 ) is an American football  क्वार्टरबैक लिये the नई यॉर्क jets of the  National Football League ( NFL ) .
He was drafted in the first round  of the 2009 एनएफएल ड्राफ्ट as the पांचवां overall  selection by the Jets and the second quarterback taken overall .
He played college football  at the विश्वविद्यालयों of दक्षिणी कैलिफ़ोर्निया  ( USC ) .
Sanchez grew  up in a well-disciplined  and athletic family .
In the eighth grade , he began to play football and learn the intricacies  of the क्वार्टरबैक स्थिति , प्रशिक्षण साथ उसके  father , Nick .
A well-regarded prospect , Sanchez committed to Southern California  following उसके कामयाब ऊँची स्कूल करियर in जिससे he led उसके टोली to a चैंपियनशिप शीर्षक दौरान उसके फाइनल ऋतु  .
At USC , Sanchez was relegated as the backup quarterback during his first three years though he  रोज़ to prominence due to उसके ब्रैड दिखावे on the फ़ील्ड in 2007 due to चोटों suffered by starting क्वार्टरबैक  John David Booty .
Sanchez also became popular within the  जातियाँ due to उसके mexican-american  heritage .
Named the starter in 2008 , Sanchez led  यूएससी to a 12–1 रिकार्ड और जीती the रोज़ कटोरी विरूद्ध  Penn State for which Sanchez was awarded the Most Valuable Player award for his performance on offense .
हालांकि अनेक माना उसे too अनुभवहीन , सांचेज़ घोषित  his intention to enter the 2009 NFL Draft .
He was selected by the Jets after they traded up with  the क्लीवलैंड भूरा , और थी नामित the starting क्वार्टरबैक  prior to the start of the season .
Despite a subpar performance  , सांचेज़ led the jets to the afc चैंपियनशिप खेल , a खोने प्रयत्न to the इंडियानापोलिस कोल्टस , बनने the चौथी रुकी क्वार्टरबैक in एनएफएल इतिहास  to win his first playoff game and the second to win two playoff games .
In his second season , Sanchez continued to develop and led the Jets to the  playoffs और the टोली 's दूसरी लगातार afc चैंपियनशिप खेल  where they narrowly lost to the Pittsburgh Steelers , 24–19 .
With the win over the New England Patriots the week prior , Sanchez tied four other  quarterbacks लिये the दूसरी सबसे post-season सड़क victories  by a quarterback in NFL history .
In leading the Jets to two consecutive conference championships , Sanchez joined  क्वार्टरबैक बेन roethlisberger as the तभी दो quarterbacks in एनएफएल इतिहास to पहुँचें the सम्मेलन  championship in their first two seasons in the league .
The next two seasons would be a regression for both the team  और सांचेज़ as वे विफल to पहुँचें the  playoffs .
Fans and  मीडिया आलोचकों पुकारा लिये a  struggling Sanchez to be benched .
He  आखिरकार थी replaced towards the समाप्त of the  2012 season with Greg McElroy .
Paul Avery (  अप्रैल 2 , 1934december 10 , 2000 ) थी an अमरीकी पुलिस रिपोर्टर , बेहतरीन ज्ञात लिये उसके कहानियां on the  infamous serial killer known as the Zodiac , and later for his work on the Patricia Hearst kidnapping .
A small  submersible ac sump पंप साथ a गार्डन नली  connector
A sump pump is a pump used to remove water  कि रै संचित in a जल collecting sump जलाशय , commonly  found in the basement of homes .
The water may enter via the perimeter drains of a basement waterproofing system ,  funneling into the जलाशय or क्युकी of बरसात or प्राकृतिक मैदान जल , if the तहखाने is नीचे the जल  table level .
Sump pumps are used  जहाँ तहखाने बाढ़ happens regularly  and to remedy dampness where the water table is above the foundation of a home .
Sump pumps send water away from a house to any place where it is no longer  समस्यापूर्ण , ऐसे as a नगरपालिका तूफ़ान नाली or a शुष्क खूब  .
Pumps may discharge to  the sanitary सीवर in पुरानी  installations .
एकबार माना स्वीकार्य , इस अभ्यास may अभी violate the plumbing कोड or नगरपालिका bylaws , क्युकी  it can overwhelm the municipal sewage treatment system .
Municipalities  urge homeowners to डिस्कनेक्ट और  reroute sump pump discharge away from sanitary sewers .
Fines  may be imposed लिये noncompliance  .
Many homeowners have inherited their sump pump  configurations और do नहीं एहसास कि the पंप discharges  to the sewer .
If the  निर्वहन is खिलाया to  a laundry sink in the basement , it 's likely going to the sewer .
Usually  hardwired into a घर 's विद्युत प्रणाली , sump  pumps may have a battery backup .
The home 's pressurized water supply powers some pumps , eliminating the need for electricity at the  व्यय of using potable जल , potentially बनाना उन्हें अधिक महंगी to operate than विद्युत पंपों और बनाना an  additional water disposal problem .
Since a sump basin may overflow if not constantly pumped , a backup system is important  लिये मामले जब the प्रमुख शक्ति is आउट लिये prolonged अवधि of समय , as दौरान a कठोर  storm .
There are  generally दो प्रकार of sump पंपों — pedestal और  submersible .
The pedestal pump 's motor is mounted above the sump , where it  is अधिक easily  serviced , but is also more conspicuous .
The pump impeller is driven by  a long , लंबवत एक्सटेंशन शाफ्ट और the impeller  is in a scroll housing in the base of the pump .
the submersible पंप is entirely  mounted inside the sump , and is specially sealed to prevent electrical short circuits .
Sump pump systems are also  utilized in औद्योगिक और वाणिज्यिक अनुप्रयोग to कंट्रोल  water table -related problems in surface soil .
An artesian  aquifer or आवधिक ऊँची जल तालिका हालात can कारण the  ground to become unstable due to water saturation .
as long as the पंप कृत्यों , the  surface soil will remain stable .
These sumps are typically  टेन फीट in गहराई or अधिक ; lined साथ corrugated मेटल पाइप कि  contains perforations or drain holes throughout .
They may include electronic control systems with visual and audible alarms and are  प्रायः covered to prevent मलबा और पशु इससे  falling in .
Bleeding Kansas ,  खूनी कान्सास or the किनारा युद्ध , थी a श्रेणी of हिंसक राजनैतिक confrontations involving anti-slavery free-staters और  pro-slavery `` Border Ruffian `` elements , that took place in the Kansas Territory and the neighboring towns of Missouri between 1854 and 1861 .
at the दिल of the विरोध थी the सवाल of whether  Kansas would enter the Union as a free state or slave state .
As such ,  bleeding कान्सास थी a प्रॉक्सी युद्ध between northerners और southerners over the समस्या  of slavery in the United States .
The term `` Bleeding Kansas '' was  coined by होरेस greeley of the नई यॉर्क ट्रिब्यून  ; the events it encompasses directly presaged the American Civil War .
Congress had long struggled to balance the  रूचि of pro-slavery शक्तियां और anti-slavery शक्तियां  .
The events later known as Bleeding Kansas were set into motion by the Kansas–Nebraska  अधिनियम of 1854 , जिससे nullified the मिसौरी सुलह और बजाय implemented the  concept of popular sovereignty .
An ostensibly democratic idea , popular sovereignty stated that the inhabitants of each territory or state should decide whether it would be a free or slave  राज्य ; however , इस resulted in आव्रजन en masse to कान्सास by कार्यकर्ताओं  from both sides .
At one point , Kansas had two separate governments , each with its  अपना संविधान , हालांकि तभी एक थी federally पहचाना .
On  जनवरी 29 , 1861 , कान्सास थी admitted to the संघ as a फ़्री राज्य , कम than तीन  months before the Battle of Fort Sumter which began the Civil War .
Benzene is an organic chemical compound  साथ the आणविक सूत्र c6 h|hydrogen|h6  .
Its molecule is composed of 6  कार्बन अणु joined in a रिंग , साथ 1 हाइड्रोजन अणु संलग्न  to each carbon atom .
Because its molecules contain  तभी कार्बन और हाइड्रोजन अणु , बेंजीन  is classed as a hydrocarbon .
Benzene is a natural constituent  of crude आयल , और is एक of the सबसे मौलिक  petrochemicals .
Benzene is an aromatic hydrocarbon and the second [ n ] -  annulene ( [ 6 ] -annulene ) , a चक्रीय हाइड्रोकार्बन  with a continuous pi bond .
It is sometimes abbreviated Ph –H . Benzene is a colorless and highly flammable  द्रव साथ a मीठी  smell .
It is mainly used as a  precursor to भारी रसायन , ऐसे as ethylbenzene और  cumene , which are produced on a billion kilogram scale .
Because it has a high octane number ,  it is an महत्वपूर्ण घटक of गैसोलीन , composing  a few percent of its mass .
सबसे non-industrial अनुप्रयोग have  been limited by benzene 's carcinogenicity .
Giovanni Virginio  स्क्यापारेल्ली ( ; 14 कूच 1835 – 4 जुलाई 1910 ) थी an इतालवी astronomer  and science historian .
Wii homebrew refers to the reuse of Nintendo 's Wii  खेल कंसोल to चलाएं तन्त्र कि रै नहीं महरूम प्राधिकृत by  Nintendo .
It achieves this by defeating the  वी 's नक़ल सुरक्षा और कोड हस्ताक्षर  measures .
In more general terms , Wii Homebrew  refers to the उपयोग of the वी 's हार्डवेयर , accessories और  software for purposes outside those intended by the manufacturer .
Original efforts  केन्द्रित on using the वी रिमोट as a इंगित यंत्र on अन्य  operating systems , or running web-based games in the built-in web browser .
Subsequent developments in games exploits , such  as the `` गोधूलि हैक `` , `` bannerbomb '' और इसके बाद अवतार `` letterbomb '' , `` तोड़ स्टेक '' , `` इंडियाना pwns '' , `` yu-gi-owned '' , `` bathaxx  '' , and `` Return of the Jodi '' , made installing the `` Homebrew Channel `` possible .
Hadley ( right ) discussing the  2006 israel-lebanon संकट साथ बुश और राइस  .
Stephen John Hadley ( born February 13 , 1947 )  थी the 21st u.S. सहायक to the अध्यक्ष लिये नेशनल सुरक्षा अफेयर्स ( commonly referred  as National Security Advisor ) , serving under President George W. Bush .
Take identical growing plants and  दे उर्वरक to हाफ of उन्हें  .
If there are differences  between the निषेचित संयंत्र समूह और the unfertilized `` कंट्रोल '' समूह , ये  differences may be due to the fertilizer .
A scientific control is an experiment or observation  designed to minimize the प्रभाव of परिवर्तनीय  other than the single independent variable .
This increases the reliability of the results , often  through a तुलना between कंट्रोल माप और  the other measurements .
Scientific controls  हैं a भाग of the वैज्ञानिक विधि  .
For example , during drug  परीक्षण , वैज्ञानिकों होगा कोशिश to कंट्रोल दो समूह to रखना उन्हें as एकसमान  as possible , then allow one group to try the drug .
Another example might  be परीक्षण संयंत्र उर्वरक by giving it to तभी हाफ the पौधे in a गार्डन : the पौधे कि प्राप्त no उर्वरक हैं the  control group , because they establish the baseline level of growth that the fertilizer-treated plants will be compared against .
बगैर a कंट्रोल समूह , the प्रयोग can नहीं  determine whether the fertilizer-treated plants grow more than they would have if untreated .
Ideally , all variables in an experiment will be controlled (  accounted लिये by the कंट्रोल माप ) और none होगा be uncontrolled  .
In such an experiment , if all the controls work as expected , it is possible to conclude that the experiment  is working as intended और कि the परिणाम of the प्रयोग हैं due to the प्रभाव of the परिवर्तनीय  being tested .
That is , scientific controls allow an investigator  to मेक a अर्जी जैसे `` दो परिस्थितियों यहूद एकसमान जबतक  factor X occurred .
Since factor X is the  तभी अंतर between the दो परिस्थितियों ,  the new outcome was caused by factor X . ''
< < Chemical  तत्व आंकड़ा सन्दर्भ
John Adams ( October 30 , 1735 ( O.S . October 19 , 1735 ) – July 4 , 1826 ) was the second president of the United  राज्य ( 1797–1801 ) , having पहले परोसा as the पहला वाइस अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य  .
An  अमरीकी founding पिता , he थी a statesman , राजनयिक , और a  leading advocate of American independence from Great Britain .
Well  शिक्षित , he थी an आत्मज्ञान राजनैतिक theorist जो प्रचारित republicanism और लिखा prolifically  about his often seminal ideas , both in published works and in letters to his wife and key adviser Abigail as well as to other Founding Fathers .
Adams came to  prominence in the जल्दी चरण  of the American Revolution .
A lawyer and public figure in Boston , as a delegate from Massachusetts to the Continental Congress , he played a leading  भूमिका in persuading कॉंग्रेस to घोषित स्वतंत्रता  .
He  assisted थामस जेफरसन in drafting the घोषणा of स्वतंत्रता  in 1776 , and was its primary advocate in the Congress .
Later , as a diplomat in Europe  , he helped negotiate the eventual सलाम सन्धि साथ ग्रेट ब्रिटेन , और  was responsible for obtaining vital governmental loans from Amsterdam bankers .
A  राजनैतिक theorist और इतिहासकार , एडम्स largely लिखा the मैसाचुसेट्स  Constitution in 1780 , which together with his earlier Thoughts on Government , influenced American political thought .
One of  उसके महानतम भूमिकाएँ थी as a न्यायधीश of अक्षर  : in 1775 , he nominated George Washington to be commander-in-chief , and 25 years later nominated John Marshall to be Chief Justice of the United States .
Adams ' revolutionary  श्रेय secured उसे दो शर्तें as जार्ज वॉशिंगटन  's vice president and his own election in 1796 as the second president .
During his one term , he encountered ferocious attacks by the Jeffersonian Republicans , as well as the  प्रबल गुट in उसके अपना federalist पार्टी led by उसके कड़वा दुश्मन सिकंदर  Hamilton .
Adams signed the controversial Alien and Sedition Acts , and built up the army and navy  विशेषकर in the फेस of an undeclared नवल युद्ध ( पुकारा the `` quasi-war  `` ) with France , 1798–1800 .
The major accomplishment of  उसके प्रेसिडेंसी थी उसके शांतिपूर्ण रेज़ोल्यूशन of the विरोध in the फेस of हैमिल्टन  's opposition .
in 1800 , एडम्स थी पराजित लिये re-election by  Thomas Jefferson and retired to Massachusetts .
He later resumed his  दोस्ती साथ जेफरसन  .
He and his  बीवी , अबीगैल एडम्स , संस्थापित an संपन्नता परिवार  line of politicians , diplomats , and historians now referred to as the Adams political family .
Adams was the father of  जॉन क्विंसी एडम्स , the छठे  President of the United States .
उसके उपलब्धियाँ have प्राप्त वृहद मान्यता in आधुनिक  times , though his contributions were not initially as celebrated as those of other Founders .
Adams was the first  u.S. अध्यक्ष to reside in the भवन कि आखिरकार became  known as the White House .
a वाट भाप  engine .
The steam engine ,  fuelled primarily by कोयले , propelled the औद्योगिक  Revolution in Great Britain and the world .
the औद्योगिक क्रान्ति थी the परिवर्तन to नई निर्माण प्रक्रियाओं  that occurred in the period from about 1760 to some time between 1820 and 1840 .
This transition included going from hand production methods  to मशीने , नई रासायनिक निर्माण और आयरन उत्पादन प्रक्रियाओं , improved दक्षता of जल शक्ति  , the increasing use of steam power and development of machine tools .
The transition also  शामिल the बदलें इससे लकडी और अन्य bio-fuels  to coal .
The Industrial revolution began in  ब्रिटेन और भीतर a few दशकों स्प्रेड to पश्चिमी  Europe and the United States .
The  औद्योगिक क्रान्ति marks a प्रमुख turning पाइंट in इतिहास  ; almost every aspect of daily life was influenced in some way .
Most notably ,  औसत आय और जनसांख्यिकी  began to exhibit unprecedented sustained growth .
In the words of Nobel Prize winner Robert E. Lucas , Jr. , `` For the first time in history , the living  मानकों of the masses of ordinary लोगों have begun to undergo sustained विकास ... nothing remotely जैसे इस आर्थिक बर्ताव is उल्लेखित by the शास्त्रीय अर्थशास्त्रियों  , even as a theoretical possibility . ''
William  घंटी स्कॉट  Iron and Coal , 1855-60
The period of time  covered by the औद्योगिक क्रान्ति varies  with different historians .
Eric Hobsbawm held that it 'broke  आउट ' in ब्रिटेन in the 1780s और थी नहीं fully लगा जबतक the 1830s or 1840s , जबकि T. S. एश्टन आयोजित कि  it occurred roughly between 1760 and 1830 .
Some 20th-century historians such as John Clapham and Nicholas Crafts have  argued कि the प्रक्रम of आर्थिक और सोशल बदलें took प्लेस धीरे  and the term revolution is a misnomer .
इस is स्टिल a विषय  of debate among historians .
GDP per  capita थी broadly stable पहले the औद्योगिक क्रान्ति और the emergence  of the modern capitalist economy .
The Industrial Revolution began an era of per-capita  आर्थिक विकास in पूंजीवादी  economies .
Economic historians are in  अनुबंध कि the onset of the औद्योगिक क्रान्ति is the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण इवेंट  in the history of humanity since the domestication of animals and plants .
The First Industrial Revolution evolved into the Second Industrial Revolution in the transition years between 1840 and 1870 , when technological and economic progress gained momentum with the increasing adoption  of steam-powered नौकाएँ , जहाजों और रेल , the विशाल स्केल manufacture of यंत्र टूल्स और  the increasing use of steam powered factories .
Juliet AnnMarie Huddy  ( born सितंबर 27 , 1969 )  , is an American television news reporter , currently appearing on Fox News Channel .
This list ranks U.S.  शहरों by जमीन क्षेत्रफल ( नहीं सहित लाशें  of water ) .
Total areas ( including water ) are also given , but note that , when  क्रमित by कुल क्षेत्रफल , a क्रमांक of तटीय शहरों appear disproportionately `` larger  '' .
सैन फ्रांसिस्को is an चरम उदाहरण  ; water makes up nearly 80 % of its total area of 232 square miles ( 601 km2 ) .
Note also that in many cases a city may be geographically large primarily because its municipal government  रै मिलाया साथ the सरकारी of the surrounding  county .
In some cases the county no longer exists , while in others the arrangement has formed a Consolidated city–county (  or city- बरो in अलास्का , or city- मोहल्ला in louisiana  ) .
These are  दिखाया in बिंदास in the सूची नीचे ( लकिन नहीं सब उदाहरण  may be indicated ) .
** These are  स्वतंत्र शहरों , अर्थ वे हैं नहीं a  part of any county .
The large  आंत ( or bowel , कोलन ) is the पिछला  part of the digestive system in vertebrate animals .
Its function is to  अवशोषित जल इससे the बाकी indigestible खाना पदार्थ , और  then to pass useless waste material from the body .
This article is primarily about the human gut ,  हालांकि the सूचना परिचय इसके प्रक्रियाओं हैं सीधे  applicable to most mammals .
The large intestine consists of  the cecum , मलाशय और गुदा कनाल  .
It starts in  the सही iliac प्रदेश of the pelvis , बस at or नीचे the सही कमर  , where it is joined to the bottom end of the small intestine .
From here it continues up the abdomen , then across the width of the abdominal  गुहा , और तब it turns bas , continuing to इसके endpoint at the गुदा  .
The large  आंत is परिचय long , जिससे is परिचय  one-fifth of the whole length of the intestinal canal .
In Terminologia Anatomica the large intestine  शामिल the cecum , कोलन , मलाशय , और गुदा कनाल  .
However ,  कुछ स्त्रोत exclude the गुदा कनाल  .
The Green Bay Packers are  an अमरीकी  football team based in Green Bay , Wisconsin .
They  हैं सदस्यों of the उत्तर प्रभाग of the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल  Conference ( NFC ) in the National Football League ( NFL ) .
Green Bay is the third-oldest franchise in the NFL  , having महरूम व्यवस्थित और playing in 1919  .
The  पैकर्स हैं the तभी non-profit , community-owned प्रमुख लीग  professional sports team in the United States .
The Packers are the last vestige of `` small town  टीमों '' कि यहूद एकबार आम in the एनएफएल दौरान the 1920s और 1930s  .
Founded in 1919 by Earl `` Curly '' Lambeau ( hence the name Lambeau Field on which the team plays ) and George Whitney Calhoun , the Green Bay Packers can trace  उनके lineage to अन्य semi-professional टीमों in ग्रीन खाड़ी  dating back to 1896 .
In 1919 and 1920 the Packers competed as a semi-professional football team  विरूद्ध क्लब इससे around विस्कॉन्सिन  and the Midwest .
They joined the American  पेशेवर फ़ुटबॉल संघ ( apfa ) in 1921 , the forerunner to  what is known today as the National Football League ( NFL ) .
हालांकि ग्रीन खाड़ी is the पिछला एनएफएल `` छोटी कस्बा '' टोली , इसके लोकल प्रशंसक आधार और मीडिया extends  into nearby Milwaukee ; the team also played selected home games there between 1933 and 1994 .
The Green Bay Packers have won 13 league championships ( more than any  अन्य टोली in the एनएफएल ) , सहित नौ एनएफएल championships prior to the सुपर कटोरी era और चार सुपर कटोरी  victories —in 1967 ( Super Bowl I ) , 1968 ( Super Bowl II ) , 1997 ( Super Bowl XXXI ) and 2011 ( Super Bowl XLV ) .
The Packers have long-standing ,  कड़वा rivalries साथ उनके nfc उत्तर ( formerly the nfc सेंट्रल ) प्रतिद्वंद्वियों , the शिकागो bears  , Minnesota Vikings and the Detroit Lions .
The Bears-Packers  फंसने is एक of the oldest rivalries in एनएफएल इतिहास  , dating back to 1921 .
The San Fernando Valley ( locally known as `` The Valley '' ) is  an urbanized घाटी स्तिथ in the लॉस एंजिल्स महानगर क्षेत्रफल of दक्षिणी कैलिफ़ोर्निया  , United States , defined by the mountains of the Transverse Ranges circling it .
Home  to 1.76 लाख लोगों , it झूठ  north of the larger and more populous Los Angeles Basin .
Nearly two thirds of the Valley  's जमीन क्षेत्रफल is भाग of the नगर of लॉस एंजिल्स  .
The other incorporated cities in  the घाटी हैं ग्लेनडेल , burbank , सैन फर्नांडो , छुपा पहाड़ियाँ  and Calabasas .
San  फर्नांडो घाटी , लॉस  Angeles
The  exterior of the वर्तमान संसार of coca-cola  at Pemberton Place .
the संसार of coca-cola , is a स्थाई  exhibition featuring the history of The Coca-Cola Company .
Its well-known advertising as well as a host of entertainment areas and attractions , and is located  in अटलांटा , जॉर्जिया ( जहाँ the कम्पनी 's मुख्यालय हैं स्तिथ  ) at Pemberton Place ( named in honor of John Pemberton , the inventor of Coca-Cola ) .
as part of  जॉर्जिया 's संग्रहालय  .
the complex located across Baker Street from Centennial  ओलम्पिक पार्क कि is घर to the जॉर्जिया एक्वेरियम और भविष्य  Center for Civil & Human Rights .
It  खोली to the पब्लिक on may 24 , 2007 ,  relocating from and replacing the original exhibit .
Pretties is a 2005 science  fiction अनोखा और the दूसरी किताब of the uglies त्रयी लिखा  by Scott Westerfeld .
It is set in a future dystopian world in which everyone  is turned `` pretty '' by चरम कॉस्मेटिक सर्जरी upon reaching आयु 16 .
It tells the story of teenager Tally  youngblood जो विद्रोहियों विरूद्ध समाज 's enforced  conformity .
Susan Leigh Vaughan Smith ( born  सितंबर 26 , 1971 ) is an अमरीकी स्त्री sentenced to जीवन  in prison for murdering her children .
Born in Union , South Carolina , and a former student of the  विश्वविद्यालयों of दक्षिण कैरोलिना संघ , वो थी convicted on जुलाई 22 , 1995 लिये murdering उसके दो बेटे  , 3-year-old Michael Daniel Smith , born October 10 , 1991 , and 14-month-old Alexander Tyler Smith , born August 5 , 1993 .
The case  gained विश्वव्यापी ध्यान shortly बाद it विकसित , due to उसके  claiming that a black man stole her car and kidnapped her sons .
She later  claimed कि वो suffered इससे दिमागी स्वास्थ्य मुद्दे  that impaired her judgment .
According to the South Carolina  विभाग of corrections , स्मिथ होगा be योग्य  for parole on November 4 , 2024 , after serving a minimum of thirty years .
She is incarcerated at South Carolina 's Leath  correctional संस्था , निकट  Greenwood .
Mount McKinley ( also known as Denali taken from the Inuit Koyukon Athabaskan language meaning `` The Great One '' ) is the highest mountain peak in the United  राज्य और in उत्तर अमेरिका साथ a समिट उन्नयन  of above sea level .
At some , the base to peak rise is considered the largest of any  पहाड़ situated entirely ऊपर समुद्र स्तर  .
Measured by topographic prominence  , it is the तीसरा सबसे prominent शिखर बाद  Mount Everest and Aconcagua .
Located in the Alaska Range  in the आंतरिक of us राज्य of अलास्का , it  is the centerpiece of Denali National Park and Preserve .
The  पहला यूरोपीय to दस्तावेज़ sighting the पहाड़  was George Vancouver in 1794 .
In 1903 , James Wickersham recorded the  पहला attempt at चढ़ाई mckinley जिससे  was unsuccessful .
In 1906 , Frederick Cook claimed the first ascent  जिससे थी बाद सिद्ध to be गलत  .
The first verifiable ascent to McKinley 's summit was achieved on June 7 , 1913 by climbers  हडसन stuck , हैरी karstens , वाल्टर हार्पर , और  Robert Tatum .
In 1951 , Bradford Washburn pioneered the West Buttress  रूट माना to be the safest और easiest  route and therefore the most popular currently in use .
The  होंडा s600 is an ऑटोमोबाइल  manufactured by Honda .
It was launched in  कूच 1964 .
Available as a roadster – bearing strong resemblance to the Honda  s500 – और as a fastback coupé – introduced in कूच 1965 – the s600 थी the पहला होंडा  available in two trim levels .
During its production run up to 1966 , the model styling would remain pretty much the  वही , साथ the सबसे notable परिवर्तन coming to the सामने grille  , bumper , and headlights .
Powered by a DOHC , water-cooled ,  four-cylinder इनलाइन इंजन साथ चार carburetors , the इंजन क्षमता थी  increased to 606 cc from the S500 's 531 cc .
The  इंजन उत्पादित at 8,500 आरपीएम और  had a top speed of .
With the convertible  weighing in at mere , the अतिरिक्त चादर मेटल  of the coupe only added to the overall weight .
Suspension was  स्वतंत्र साथ sealed रोलर कड़ी  drive to each rear wheel .
The S600 was  the पहला द्रव्यमान marketed  Honda car .
First offered only in right-hand drive , it  जल्द became उपलब्धियाँ in left-hand ड्राइव to अपील  to export markets .
There  यहूद a few pre-production s500s manufactured  in left hand drive , two or three even being shown in some early sales brochures .
Both the S600 roadster and coupé were available in standard trim and a special , upgraded package called the SM600 which included , among other  वस्तुएं , खास पेंट रंगों , विशेष badging , a मानक रेडियो और स्पीकर , a खास एंटीना in the यात्री पक्ष सूर्य छज्जा , मानक reversing  lights , a standard cigarette lighter , a standard heater , better cushioned seats , and a detachable seat track for quick removal of the passenger seat .
Honda built 3,912 roadsters in  1964 , साथ उत्पादन चढ़ाई to 7,261 convertibles  and 1,519 coupes in 1965 .
Production dropped off in 1966 ( as they were shifting to the S800 ) with only 111  roadsters और 281 coupes , giving tallies of 11,284 convertibles और 1,800 coupes  for the 3 year span .
Everybody Hates Chris is an American television  काल sitcom कि depicts the teenage अनुभवों of हास्य क्रिस चट्टान ( जो is भी the narrator ) जबकि growing up in the bedford-stuyvesant  neighborhood of Brooklyn , New York .
the दिखाएँ is नियत between 1983 और 1987 ; however , चट्टान खुद  was a teenager between 1978 and 1983 .
Rock grew up with a boy named Kenny Montero , whom he has  प्रायः referred to as the प्रेरणा लिये a लॉट of the एपीसोड  .
In many interviews ,  चट्टान रै वर्णित केनी as the  reason he got into comedy in the first place .
The show  's शीर्षक parodies the सीबीएस sitcom  Everybody Loves Raymond .
Rock stated : ``  everybody loves रेमंड लकिन everybody hates क्रिस  ! `` .
the दिखाएँ 's सीसे अभिनेताओं हैं टायलर जेम्स विलियम्स , टेरी  Crews , Tichina Arnold , Tequan Richmond , Imani Hakim , and Vincent Martella .
In  पतन 2008 , the the cw स्थानांतरित everybody hates  Chris and The Game to the Friday night death slot .
The fourth season of the series premiered Friday ,  अक्तूबर 3 , 2008 , at 8:00pm eastern/7:00pm सेंट्रल  .
On May 21 , 2009 , The CW  घोषित कि it था रद्द  Everybody Hates Chris .
Prior to this , executive producer Chris  चट्टान घोषित कि the समाप्त of ऋतु 4 matched up साथ उसके अपना  past—dropping out of high school to become a comedian—and that it was time to end the show .
Pleural effusion is  excess द्रव कि accumulates between the दो  pleural layers , the fluid-filled space that surrounds the lungs .
excessive amounts of ऐसे द्रव can impair श्वास by limiting the  expansion of the lungs during ventilation .
Beowulf ( ; in Old English or ) is the conventional  शीर्षक of an बूढ़ा अंग्रेज़ी वीर एपिक कविता consisting of 3182 alliterative long लाइनों , नियत in  Scandinavia , commonly cited as one of the most important works of Anglo-Saxon literature .
It survives in a single  पाण्डुलिपि ज्ञात as the nowell  Codex .
Its composition by an anonymous Anglo-Saxon  कवि is दिनाँक between the 8th और the जल्दी  11th century .
In 1731 , the manuscript was badly damaged by a fire that swept through  a भवन आवास a संग्रहण of मध्यकालीन पांडुलिपियों समवेत  by Sir Robert Bruce Cotton .
The poem fell into obscurity for decades , and its existence did not become widely known again until it was  मुद्रित in 1815 in an संस्करण prepared by the icelandic-danish विद्वान grímur jónsson thorkelin  .
In  the कविता , बियोवुल्फ़ , a नायिका of the geats in scandinavia , आता to the सहायता of hroðgar , the किंग  of the Danes , whose mead hall ( in Heorot ) has been under attack by a monster known as Grendel .
After Beowulf slays him ,  grendel 's माँ हमले the हॉल और  is then also defeated .
विजयी , बियोवुल्फ़ goes घर to  Geatland in Sweden and later becomes king of the Geats .
After a period of fifty years has  passed , बियोवुल्फ़ defeats a ड्रैगन  , but is fatally wounded in the battle .
After his death  , उसके सेवकों दफनाने उसे in a tumulus , a दफ़न mound  , in Geatland .
Shem Ham and Japheth by  जेम्स tissot 1904  .
Shem ( ; Sēm ; Arabic : Sām ; Ge'ez :  ሴም , sēm ; `` renown ; समृद्धि ; नाम '' ) थी  one of the sons of Noah in the Hebrew Bible as well as in Islamic literature .
He is most  popularly regarded as the ज्येष्ठ बेटे , हालांकि  some traditions regard him as the second son .
Genesis  10:21 refers to सापेक्ष आयु of shem और उसके bhai japheth , लकिन साथ  sufficient ambiguity to have yielded different translations .
The verse is translated in the KJV as `` Unto Shem also , the father of all the children of Eber , the  bhai of japheth the elder , भी to उसे यहूद children  born . `` .
However , the New  अमरीकी मानक बाइबल देता , `` भी  to Shem , the father of all the children of Eber , and the older brother of Japheth , children were born . ''
Genesis 11:10 records that Shem was still 100 years old at  the जनम of arphaxad , ( लकिन nearly 101 - देखिए कालक्रम नोट , ) दो सालो बाद the बाढ़ , बनाना उसे मुश्किल 99 at the समय the बाढ़  began ; and that he lived for another 500 years after this , making his age at death 600 years .
The children of Shem were Elam , Asshur ,  arphaxad , lud , और aram , in जोड  to daughters .
अब्राहम , the patriarch  of the Hebrews and Arabs , was one of the descendants of Arphaxad .
Islamic literature describes Shem  as एक of the believing बेटे of  Noah .
Some sources even  पहचानो shem as a नबी in उसके अपना सही  and that he was the next prophet after his father .
In one Muslim legend , Shem was  एक of the लोगों कि परमेश्वर बना यीशु उठाएगा as  a sign to the Children of Israel .
The 1st century historian Flavius Josephus , among many others , recounted the tradition that these five  बेटे यहूद the progenitors of the राष्ट्र of ईलम , assyria , chaldea  , Lydia , and Syria , respectively .
Semitic is still a commonly used term for the Semitic languages , as a subset of the  afro-asiatic भाषाएं , denoting the आम भाषाई विरासत of अरबी , aramaic , अक्कादी  , Ethiopic , Hebrew and Phoenician languages .
According to some Jewish traditions ( e.g. , B. Talmud  nedarim 32b ; उत्पत्ति rabbah 46:7 ; उत्पत्ति rabbah 56:10 ; leviticus rabbah 25:6 ; संख्याएँ rabbah 4:8 . ) , shem is  believed to have been Melchizedek , King of Salem whom Abraham is recorded to have met after the battle of the four kings .
In a few of the many extra-biblical sources that  describe उसे , shem is भी credited साथ हत्या nimrod , बेटे of cush  .
Shem is mentioned in Genesis 5:32 ,  6:10 ; 7:13 ; 9:18,23,26-27 ; 10 ; 11:10 ; भी in 1 क्रॉनिकल्स  1:4 .
Geographic  identifications of flavius josephus , c. 100 ad ; japheth 's  sons shown in red , Ham 's sons in blue , Shem 's sons in green .
Go Daddy or Go  पापा समूह inc. is a privately आयोजित कम्पनी कि is primarily  an internet domain registrar and web hosting company .
Go Daddy Group Inc. filed for an IPO in 2006 , but  बाद रद्द it , due to `` मार्केट uncertainties  '' .
In addition to domain  पंजीकरण और होस्टिंग go पापा भी बिकता  e-business related software and services .
On June 24 , 2011 , The Wall Street Journal reported that  private-equity firms केकेआर और चांदी झील साझेदार , साथ साथ a तीसरा निवेशकों , यहूद nearing a सौदे to ख़रीदे the कम्पनी लिये between  $ 2–2.5 billion .
On July 1 , 2011 Go Daddy confirmed that  केकेआर , चांदी झील साझेदार और प्रौद्योगिकी क्रॉसओवर  Ventures had closed the deal .
Although the purchase price was not  officially घोषित it थी reported to be $ 2.25 अरब , लिये  65 % of the company .
, Bob Parsons had ceded the CEO role of Go Daddy  to वारेन adelman , जो था महरूम साथ the कम्पनी  for about 10 years .
The Andorran coat  of बाहें at the andorran पार्लियामेंट  .
Andorra ( ; , ) , officially the Principality of Andorra ( ) , also called the Principality of the Valleys of  अंडोरा , ( ) , is a landlocked microstate in southwestern यूरोपीय , स्तिथ in the पूर्वी pyrenees kyu  and bordered by Spain and France .
It is the sixth  smallest स्वदेश in यूरोपीय , having an क्षेत्रफल of और an अनुमानित  population of 85,000 in 2012 .
Its  पूंजी , अंडोरा la वेला , is the उच्चतम पूंजी नगर  in Europe , at an elevation of above sea level .
The  आधिकारिक भाषा is कैटलन , हालांकि स्पेनी ,  Portuguese , and French are also commonly spoken .
Created under a charter in 988 ,  the उपस्थित principality थी formed in 1278  .
It is known as a principality as it is a  साम्राज्य headed by दो co-princes – the बिशप of urgell और the अध्यक्ष  of France .
Andorra is a  prosperous देश मुख्यतः क्युकी of इसके पर्यटन उद्योग , जिससे सेवाएं  an estimated 10.2 million visitors annually , and also because of its status as a tax haven .
It is not a member of the European Union , but  the यूरोपियन is the de facto करेंसी  .
The people of Andorra have the 4th  उच्चतम इंसान जीवन प्रत्याशा  in the world — 82 years at birth .
The George Washington University ( GW , GWU , or George Washington )  is a व्यापक निजी , coeducational शोध विश्वविद्यालयों स्तिथ  in Washington , D.C. .
It awards certificates , Bachelor  डिग्री , मास्टर्स डिग्री , और phds आरपार अनेक दर्जन  disciplines .
The university was chartered by an Act of Congress on February 9 , 1821 as The  columbian कॉलेज in the ज़िला of कोलंबिया  .
किम्बर्ली नोएल `` किम '' कार्दशियन ( born अक्तूबर 21 , 1980 ) is an अमरीकी  socialite , television personality and occasional actress .
In 2007 , she gained  सुर्खी as the विषय of a sex टेप कि subsequently resulted in a अदालत  awarding her $ 5 million ; later in that same year , she and her family rose to prominence with their E !
reality television series Keeping Up with the Kardashians , and  इसके subsequent spin-offs , सहित कोर्टनी और किम लो नई यॉर्क और  Kourtney and Kim Take Miami .
In 2010 , Kardashian was the  highest-earning वास्तविकता स्टार  , with estimated earnings of $ 6 million .
With sisters Kourtney  और khloé , कार्दशियन co-owns the  fashion boutique chain D-A-S-H .
She has been involved in the production of several lines of  कपडे और सुगंध  .
In  अगस्त 2011 , कार्दशियन शादीशुदा बास्केट  player Kris Humphries in a widely publicized ceremony .
That October ,  कार्दशियन दायर लिये तलाक following  72 days of marriage .
The move garnered significant backlash  इससे the मीडिया , जो labeled it a  `` publicity stunt '' .
After 536  दिनों , कार्दशियन और humphries पहुँचे an अघोषित  settlement at the Los Angeles Superior Court , finalizing the divorce in April 2013 .
Aerial view of Oahu with freeways and  राजमार्गों , 3d computer-generated चित्र
Fly-around  दौरे of the द्वीप
oahu ( ) or oahu , ज्ञात as `` the महफ़िल प्लेस '' , is the तीसरा largest of the हवाई आइलैंड्स  and the most populous of the islands in the U.S. state of Hawaii .
The state  पूंजी , होनोलूलू , is on  Oahu 's southeast coast .
Including small close-in offshore islands such as Ford Island and the islands in Kaneohe Bay and off the  पूर्वी ( windward ) coast , it रै a कुल जमीन क्षेत्रफल of , बनाना it the 20th largest द्वीप  in the United States .
In the greatest dimension ,  इस volcanic द्वीप is  long and across .
The  लंबाई of the shoreline  is .
The island is the result of two separate shield volcanoes : Waianae and  koolau , साथ a व्यापक `` घाटी '' or काठी ( the सेंट्रल oahu मैदान  ) between them .
The  उच्चतम पाइंट is mt . ka'ala  in the Waianae Range , rising to above sea level .
The base currency of the  संयुक्त राज्य is the u.S. डालर , और is मुद्रित on बिल्स in denominations  of $ 1 , $ 2 , $ 5 , $ 10 , $ 20 , $ 50 , and $ 100 .
At one time , however , U.S.  करेंसी शामिल पाँच larger  denominations .
Notes in the denominations of $ 500 , $ 1,000 , $ 5,000 , and $ 10,000 were printed  लिये सामान्य उपयोग , और a $ 100,000 नोट थी मुद्रित लिये निश्चित आतंरिक  transactions .
British Honduras was a British  उपनिवेश in सेंट्रल अमेरिका .
In 1981 , the colony  gained पूरा स्वतंत्रता , और is अभी the  independent nation of Belize .
First  colonised by spaniards in the 17th सदी ,  the territory on the east coast of Central America , south of Mexico , became a British crown colony in 1862 .
In 1964 , it  became a self-governing  colony .
Belize became fully independent from  the संयुक्त किंगडम in 1981 .
Belize was the last  महाद्वीपीय कब्ज़ा of the संयुक्त किंगडम  in the Americas .
Spelt , also known as dinkel wheat , or hulled wheat , is an  प्राचीन प्रजाति of गेहूं इससे the  fifth millennium BC .
Spelt was an important staple in parts of Europe from  the कांस्य आयु to मध्यकालीन टाइम्स ; it अभी survives as a relict क्रॉप in सेंट्रल यूरोपीय और उत्तरी स्पेन  and has found a new market as a health food .
Spelt is  sometimes माना a subspecies of the closely सम्बन्धित प्रजाति आम गेहूं ( T. aestivum  ) , in which case its botanical name is considered to be Triticum aestivum subsp . spelta .
It is a hexaploid wheat  , जिससे अर्थात् it रै छह सेट of गुणसूत्रों  .
Sherlock Holmes ( or ) is a fictional detective created by author  और चिकित्सक सर आर्थर कोनन डोयल  .
A London-based `` consulting detective '' whose abilities border on the fantastic , Holmes is  प्रसिद्ध लिये उसके कुटिल लॉजिकल तर्क , उसके क्षमता to अपनाना लगभग कोई भेस ,  and his use of forensic science skills to solve difficult cases .
Holmes , who  पहला appeared in प्रकाशन in 1887  , was featured in four novels and 56 short stories .
The first novel , A Study in Scarlet , appeared  in beeton 's क्रिसमस सालाना in 1887  and the second , The Sign of the Four , in Lippincott 's Monthly Magazine in 1890 .
The character grew tremendously in popularity with the first series of short stories in The  strand पत्रिका , शुरूआत साथ a कांड in बोहेमिया in 1891 ; further श्रेणी of छोटी  stories and two novels published in serial form appeared between then and 1927 .
The stories  कवर a काल इससे around 1880  up to 1914 .
All but four stories are narrated by Holmes 's friend and biographer , Dr. John H. Watson ; two are narrated by Holmes himself ( `` The Blanched Soldier `` and `` The Lion 's  माने `` ) और दो अन्य हैं लिखा in the तीसरा व्यक्ति ( `` the mazarin स्टोन `` और `` उसके पिछला धनुष ``  ) .
In two stories ( `` The Musgrave Ritual `` and `` The Gloria Scott `` ) , Holmes  tells वाटसन the प्रमुख स्टोरी इससे उसके यादें , जबकि वाटसन becomes the narrator of the फ़्रेम  story .
The first and fourth novels , A Study in Scarlet and The  घाटी of भय , प्रत्येक शामिल a long अंतराल of सर्वज्ञ  narration recounting events unknown to either Holmes or Watson .
The  संयुक्त राज्य हाउस of प्रतिनिधि is एक of the दो घरों of the  United States Congress ( a bicameral legislature ) .
it is अक्सर referred  to as the House .
The other  हाउस is the सीनेट .
The composition and  शक्तियां of the हाउस हैं स्थापित in आलेख एक of  the United States Constitution .
The major power of the House is  to pass संघीय विधान कि affects the संपूर्ण देश हालांकि इसके बिल्स जरूर  also be passed by the Senate and further agreed to by the U.S. President before becoming law ( unless both the House and Senate re-pass the legislation with a two-thirds majority in each chamber ) .
The House has several exclusive powers : the power to initiate revenue bills , to impeach  officials , और to elect the u.S. अध्यक्ष in मामला वहीँ is no बहुमत  in the Electoral College .
Each U.S. state is represented in the House in proportion to its  जनसांख्यिकी लकिन is हकदार to at तनिक एक प्रतिनिधि  .
The  सबसे populous राज्य , कैलिफ़ोर्निया  , currently has 53 representatives .
The total number of voting  प्रतिनिधि is फिक्स्ड by विधि  at 435 .
Each representative  serves लिये a two-year पद  .
The Speaker of the United States House of Representatives , who presides over the chamber , is elected by the members of the House , and is  इसलिए traditionally the नेता of the हाउस लोकतांत्रिक caucus or the हाउस रिपब्लिकन सम्मेलन , whichever  party has more voting members .
The House meets  in the दक्षिण wing of the संयुक्त  States Capitol .
Jell-O is a brand name belonging to U.S.-based  kraft भोजन लिये a क्रमांक of जिलेटिन desserts , सहित फल gels , puddings और no-bake मलाई  pies .
The brand 's popularity has led to it  होने प्रयुक्त as a जेनेरिक पद लिये जिलेटिन मिठाई आरपार the  U.S. and Canada .
Kennywood is an amusement park  स्तिथ in वेस्ट mifflin , पेन्सिलवेनिया  , a suburb of Pittsburgh .
The park first opened in 1898 as a `` trolley park '' attraction at the  समाप्त of the mellon परिवार 's monongahela गली रेल  .
The park was purchased in 1906 by F. W. Henninger and Andrew McSwigan and thus  began the kennywood entertainment कम्पनी कि रै remained a closely आयोजित परिवार कारोबार  for over 100 years .
This traditional amusement park still has structures and rides  डेटिंग वापस to इसके खोलने और  the early 1900s .
Along with Rye Playland Park , it is one of only  दो मनोरंजन पार्क सूचीबद्ध in the नेशनल पंजीकरण of ऐतिहासिक स्थान  .
Kennywood is owned by Kennywood Entertainment  कम्पनी , जिससे जबतक दिसम्बर 2007 थी a closely आयोजित परिवार कारोबार स्वामित्व  by the Henninger and McSwigan families .
Kennywood  entertainment is अभी संचालित by california-based राजमहल entertainment , a subsidiary  of Parques Reunidos , an international amusement park company based in Madrid , Spain .
Parque Reunidos is in turn a subsidiary of Candover  निवेश , an निवेश निधि आधारित in the uk  .
A Social Security  कार्ड जारी by the रेलरोड रिटायरमेंट  Board in 1943 to a now deceased person .
In the United States , a Social Security number (  ssn ) is a nine-digit क्रमांक जारी to u.S. नागरिकों , स्थाई निवासियों , और  temporary ( working ) residents under section 205 ( c ) ( 2 ) of the Social Security Act , codified as .
The number is issued to  an व्यक्तिगत by the सोशल सुरक्षा प्रशासन , an स्वतंत्र  agency of the United States government .
Its  प्राथमिक purpose is to track individuals लिये  Social Security purposes .
A Social Security number may be  प्राप्त by applying on रूप ss-5 , `` अनुप्रयोग  for A Social Security Number Card '' .
Minimalism describes movements in various forms of art and design , especially visual art and music , where the work is set  आउट to expose the essence or पहचान of a विषय through eliminating सब non-essential फ़ॉर्म , सुविधाएँ  or concepts .
Minimalism is any design or style in  जिससे the सरलतम और fewest तत्व हैं प्रयुक्त to  create the maximum effect .
As a specific movement in the arts it is identified  साथ developments in post–world युद्ध ii पश्चिमी आर्ट , सबसे strongly साथ अमरीकी विज़ुअल कला in the  1960s and early 1970s .
Prominent artists associated  साथ इस गति शामिल डोनाल्ड judd , जॉन mccracken , agnes मार्टिन , डान flavin  , Robert Morris , Anne Truitt , and Frank Stella .
It is rooted in the  reductive पहलुओं of modernism , और is प्रायः interpreted as a प्रतिक्रिया विरूद्ध  Abstract expressionism and a bridge to Postminimal art practices .
The terms have expanded to encompass a movement in music which features repetition and iteration  , as in the रचनाएं of la मोंटे यंग , टेरी रिले  , Steve Reich , Philip Glass , and John Adams .
Minimalist  रचनाएं हैं sometimes  known as systems music .
The term  `` अल्पतम '' is प्रायः लागू colloquially to designate  anything that is spare or stripped to its essentials .
It has also been used to describe the plays and novels of Samuel Beckett ,  the films of रॉबर्ट bresson , the कहानियां of रेमंड carver , और भी the ऑटोमोबाइल डिजाइन  of Colin Chapman .
The word was first used in  अंग्रेज़ी in the जल्दी 20th सदी to describe  the Mensheviks .
In  रसायन और भौतिकी , डाल्टन 's विधि ( भी पुकारा डाल्टन 's विधि of आंशिक pressures  ) states that the total pressure exerted by the mixture of non-reactive gases is equal to the sum of the partial pressures of individual gases .
This empirical law  थी observed by जॉन डाल्टन in 1801  and is related to the ideal gas laws .
Mathematically , the  दबाव of a मिश्रण of गैसों can  be defined as the summation
or
जहाँ represent the आंशिक दबाव  of each component .
It  is assumed कि the गैसों do नहीं  react with each other
जहाँ is the mole भिन्न of the  i-th component in the total mixture of n components .
the संबंध नीचे provides a रास्ता  to determine the volume based concentration of any individual gaseous component
where is the  विशेषज्ञता of the i-th घटक expressed  in ppm .
Dalton 's law is  नहीं exactly followed by रियल गैसों  .
Those deviations are  considerably विशाल at ऊँची pressures  .
In  ऐसे शर्तें , the आवाज़ occupied by the अणुओं can  become significant compared to the free space between them .
In  particular , the छोटी औसत दूरियाँ between अणुओं उठाता the तीव्रता  of intermolecular forces between gas molecules enough to substantially change the pressure exerted by them .
Neither of  those प्रभाव हैं माना by the आदर्श गैस मॉडल  .
This is a list of the largest United States colleges and universities by  नामांकन लिये कॉलेजों और विश्वविद्यालयों in  the United States .
कया इस सूची  includes:
Colleges  और विश्वविद्यालयों भीतर  the United States
University systems  if the प्रणाली is चलाएं अंतर्गत a सिंगल प्रशासन
Enrollment is the sum of the  headcount of undergraduate और ग्रैजुएट  students
Enrollment is  गिने by the एकीकृत post-secondary शिक्षा प्रणाली  within the U.S. Department of Education .
Enrollment is  the 12-month unduplicated headcount , indicating the क्रमांक of अद्वितीय  students who attended the university during the year .
What this list  करता नहीं include:
Any indication of how many of the enrolled students are full or part time ( e.g. , some universities may  have a ऊँची नामांकन , लकिन have सबसे विद्यार्थी नामांकित  in only a single class )
For other lists  कि माप विश्वविद्यालयों नामांकन  , see the See Also section below .
`` Right Round '' is a song  performed by अमरीकी rapper flo rida , released as the सीसे सिंगल इससे  his second studio album , R.O.O.T.S . ( 2009 ) .
The song features guest  vocals इससे kesha  .
It was released to radio on  27 जनवरी 2009 और थी डिजिटली released on  10 February by Poe Boy Entertainment and Atlantic Records .
The song lyrically  बोलती of flo rida 's जाल बॉल रेफरी enthusiasm , जबकि adapting  the chorus of the 1984 Dead or Alive song `` You Spin Me Round ( Like a Record ) `` in its hook .
according to एक of the सोंग 's लेखक , the  chorus refers to oral sex .
Kesha contributed guest vocals to the song , but in  the संयुक्त राज्य , दौरान the चलाएं atop the चार्ट , kesha थी uncredited  .
The song received mostly negative reviews from critics  , जो claimed it थी kitsch और misogynistic  .
However , it was a commercial success , reaching the  शीर्ष टेन of the चार्ट in उन्नीस देशों विश्वव्यापी  .
In the United States ,  it became flo rida 's दूसरी number-one सिंगल और broke the रिकार्ड लिये first-week बिक्री  when it was released to digital retailers .
The single 's accompanying music  वीडियो थी निर्देशित by मैल्कम जोन्स और मनोनीत लिये  an MTV Video Music Award .
The song has been used in several movies , such as The  hangover , the भद्दा सच्चाई और the तेलुगु  movie Pilla Zamindar .
In the movie Pitch  पूर्ण , the सोंग is performed by the a cappella  group the Treblemakers .
The Chief Justice of the United States is the head of the United States federal court system ( the judicial branch of  the संघीय सरकारी of the संयुक्त राज्य ) और the मुख्य न्यायधीश of the परम् अदालत  of the United States .
The Chief Justice is one of nine Supreme Court justices ; the other eight  हैं the संबद्ध justices of the परम् अदालत of the संयुक्त  States .
From 1789 until 1866 , the office was known as the Chief  इंसाफ of the परम्  Court .
The Chief Justice is the highest judicial officer in the country , and acts as a chief  प्रशासनिक अधिकारी लिये the संघीय न्यायालयों और as सिर of the न्यायिक सम्मेलन of the संयुक्त राज्य appoints the निदेशक of the प्रशासनिक  Office of the United States Courts .
The Chief Justice also  serves as a प्रवक्ता लिये the न्यायिक  branch .
the मुख्य इंसाफ  leads the business of the Supreme Court .
He presides  over मौखिक वितर्क पहले  the court .
When  the अदालत renders an राय , the मुख्य justice—when  in the majority—decides who writes the court 's opinion .
The Chief Justice also  रै significant agenda-setting  power over the court 's meetings .
In the case of an impeachment of a President of the United  राज्य , जिससे रै occurred twice , the मुख्य इंसाफ presides  over the trial in the Senate .
In modern tradition , the Chief Justice  रै the ceremonial ड्यूटी of administering the शपथ  of office of the President of the United States .
The first  मुख्य इंसाफ  was John Jay .
The 17th and current Chief  इंसाफ is जॉन G. रॉबर्ट्स , jr  .
Caribou near  prudhoe खाड़ी  , 1973
Prudhoe Bay  आयल फ़ील्ड is a विशाल आयल फ़ील्ड on अलास्का 's उत्तर  Slope .
It is the largest oil field in both the United States and in North  अमेरिका , covering और originally containing लगभग  of oil .
The amount of recoverable oil in the field is more than  दोगुना कि of the अगला largest फ़ील्ड in the संयुक्त राज्य , the ईस्ट टेक्सास आयल  field .
The field is operated by BP ; partners are ExxonMobil and  conocophillips अलास्का  .
Labor  संघ हैं legally पहचाना as प्रतिनिधि  of workers in many industries in the United States .
Their activity  आज centers on सामूहिक bargaining over मजदूरी , लाभ , और working शर्तें लिये  their membership , and on representing their members in disputes with management over violations of contract provisions .
Larger unions also typically  engage in lobbying क्रियाएँ और electioneering at  the state and federal level .
Most unions in  अमेरिका हैं लकीर साथ एक of दो larger छतरियाँ संगठन : the afl-cio निर्मित in 1955 , और the बदलें to  Win Federation which split from the AFL-CIO in 2005 .
Both advocate  नीतियों और विधान on निमित्त of मजदूर in the  United States and Canada , and take an active role in politics .
The AFL-CIO is especially concerned  साथ वैश्विक व्यापार मुद्दे  .
In 2010 , the percentage of workers belonging  to a संघ in the संयुक्त राज्य ( or कुल मजदूर संघ `` घनत्व  '' ) was 11.4 % , compared to 18.4 % in Germany , 27.5 % in Canada , and 70 % in Finland .
Union membership in the private sector has fallen under  7 % — स्तर नहीं देखी चूंकि  1932 .
संघ allege कि employer-incited विपक्ष रै contributed  to this decline in membership .
The most  prominent संघ हैं among  public sector employees such as teachers and police .
Members of  संघ हैं disproportionately  older , male and residents of the Northeast , the Midwest , and California .
Union workers average 10-30 % higher pay than  non-union in अमेरिका बाद controlling लिये व्यक्तिगत  , job , and labor market characteristics .
Although much smaller  compared to उनके शिखर सदस्यता in the 1950s , अमरीकी संघ remain a prominent राजनैतिक फ़ैक्टर , दोनो through mobilization of उनके अपना सदस्यताएँ और through  coalitions with like-minded activist organizations around issues such as immigrant rights , trade policy , health care , and living wage campaigns .
To fight alleged employer anti-union programs , unions are currently  वकालत नई `` कार्ड जाँच `` संघीय विधान कि होता आवश्यकता नियोक्ता to सौदेबाजी साथ a संघ if  more than 50 % of workers signed forms , or `` cards , '' stating they wish to be represented by that union .
The current procedure involves waiting  45 to 90 दिनों लिये a federally पर्यवेक्षित secret-ballot कर्मचारी referendum on the विषय  .
The economist Joseph Stiglitz has asserted that , `` Strong unions have helped to  reduce असमानता , whereas weaker संघ have बना it easier  for CEOs , sometimes working with market forces that they have helped shape , to increase it . ''
The decline in unionization  चूंकि wwii in the संयुक्त राज्य रै महरूम संबद्ध साथ a सुनाया  rise in income and wealth inequality .
A Christian  lacroix फ़ैशन बुटीक
A boutique is a  छोटी खरीदारी आउटलेट , विशेषकर एक कि specializes in elite और फैशनेबल  items such as clothing and jewelry .
The word is French  लिये `` दूकान '' , via लैटिन इससे  Greek ἀποθήκη ( apothēkē ) , `` storehouse '' .
The term entered into everyday  अंग्रेज़ी उपयोग in the लेट 1960s जब , लिये a ब्रैड काल  , London was the centre of the fashion trade .
Carnaby Street  और the किंग्स सड़क यहूद the फ़ोकस of much  media attention as home to the most fashionable boutiques of the era .
Now the East of London has been regenerated and more Boutiques pop up in  फैशनेबल क्षेत्रों , ऐसे as मीनार सेतु सड़क .
It can also refer to a specialised firm  ऐसे as a बुटीक निवेश बैंको or बुटीक विधि  firm .
The word is often used to  describe a प्रॉपर्टी in the स्वतंत्र खण्ड of the होटल मार्केट ( ऐसे as  The Rockwell in London ) in order to distinguish themselves from larger chains ( such as Hilton Hotels ) .
In such cases the establishments  उद्देश्य to convey the विचार कि the आपरेशन is elite और अत्यधिक  specialised .
In the strictest sense of the word , boutiques would be  one-of-a-kind लकिन अधिक generally बोलना , कुछ जंजीरों can be referred to as boutiques if वे  specialize in particular styles .
Recently , the term `` boutique ''  रै प्रारंभ होने लागू to normally-mass-market वस्तुएं कि हैं either niche  or produced in intentionally small numbers at very high prices .
इस may be referred to  as boutique manufacturing .
For example , before the release of the Wii , a Time Magazine article suggested that Nintendo  could become a `` बुटीक video-game कम्पनी '' , producing खेल लिये niche ऑडियंस ,  rather than trying to compete directly with Microsoft and Sony .
In the traditional luxury-  देखें उद्योग scalfaro अंतरराष्ट्रीय is माना as  the precursor in manufacturing and sale of bespoke watches .
The Swiss  कम्पनी उपयोग a अत्यधिक लचीली बुटीक निर्माण साईट , जिससे  allows producing small series or even unique timepieces .
Although some boutiques specialise in hand-made items and  अन्य truly one-of-a-kind वस्तुएं , अन्य बस उपज t-shirts , स्टिकर  , and other fashion accessories in artificially small runs and sell them at unusually high prices .
In the early 1990s Selena  प्रारंभ निर्माण उसके अपना लकीर of  women 's clothing .
Opening two boutiques  labeled as `` सेलिना इत्यादि . बुटीक & सैलून '' एक स्तिथ in कॉर्पस christi  and one located in San Antonio , Texas .
One was due to open  in monterrey , मैक्सिको , in 1995 लकिन due to  her death it was not opened .
Around  1999 the सैन अंतोनियो स्थान बंद और  the Corpus Christi location was closed in 2009 .
in लेट 1990s कुछ यूरोपीय खुदरा व्यापारियों विकसित the विचार of tailoring a दूकान towards a जीवनशैली  theme , in the form of `` concept stores '' , which specialised in cross-selling without using separate departments .
One of the first concept  स्टोर्स थी 10 कोरसो como in मिलान , इटली followed by colette  in Paris and Quartier 206 in Berlin .
Several well-known American chains such as Urban Outfitters , D-A-S-H ,  और the गैप , ऑस्ट्रेलियाई कड़ी billabong और , हालांकि कम आम , रब & टेलर  adapted to the concept store trend after 2000 .
नेवी संघीय क्रेडिट संघ ( or नेवी संघीय ) is a क्रेडिट संघ headquartered in वियना , वर्जिनिया , चार्टर्ड और regulated अंतर्गत the प्राधिकार of  the National Credit Union Administration ( NCUA ) of the U.S. federal government .
Navy Federal is the largest  प्राकृतिक सदस्य ( or खुदरा ) क्रेडिट संघ in the संसार  , both in asset size and in membership .
As of September  2012 , नेवी संघीय था over $ 50 अरब usd  in assets , and over 4 million members .
Stevland  hardaway मॉरिस ( born may 13 , 1950 as stevland hardaway judkins ) , ज्ञात by उसके स्टेज नाम स्टीवी अचरज , is an अमरीकी सिंगर , songwriter , और multi-instrumentalist  , a child prodigy who developed into one of the most creative musical figures of the late 20th century .
Blind since shortly after birth , Wonder signed with Motown 's Tamla label at the age  of ग्यारह , और continues to perform और रिकार्ड लिये  Motown to this day .
Among Wonder 's best known works are singles such as `` Superstition `` , ``  सर ड्यूक `` , `` तुम हैं the सनशाइन of my जीवन `` और `` i बस पुकारा  to Say I Love You `` .
खूब ज्ञात एल्बम भी शामिल  Talking Book , Innervisions and Songs in the Key of Life .
He has recorded more than thirty U.S. top ten hits and  प्राप्त twenty-two ग्रैमी पुरस्कार ,  the most ever awarded to a male solo artist .
Wonder is also  विख्यात लिये उसके कार्य as an activist लिये राजनैतिक  causes , including his 1980 campaign to make Martin Luther King , Jr. 's birthday a holiday in the United States .
In 2009 ,  अचरज थी नामित a संयुक्त राष्ट्र  Messenger of Peace .
In 2008 , Billboard magazine released a list of the Hot 100  all-time शीर्ष कलाकारों to celebrate the us singles चार्ट 's पचासवें वर्षगांठ , साथ  Wonder at number five .
By popular vote , Stevie was  inducted into the soulmusic हॉल of कीर्ति  at SoulMusic.com in December 2012 .
Psychosis (  इससे the यूनानी ψυχή `` psyche '' , लिये mind/soul , और -ωσις `` -ओएसआईs '' , लिये असामान्य कंडीशन or derangement ) refers to an असामान्य कंडीशन of the दिमाग  , and is a generic psychiatric term for a mental state often described as involving a `` loss of contact with reality `` .
लोगों कष्ट इससे मनस्ताप  are described as psychotic .
Psychosis  is दिए to the अधिक कठोर फ़ॉर्म of मनोरोग  disorder , during which hallucinations and delusions , gross excitement or stupor and impaired insight may occur .
The  पद `` मनस्ताप '' is बहुत व्यापक और can औसत anything इससे अपेक्षाकृत सामान्य  aberrant experiences through to the complex and catatonic expressions of schizophrenia and bipolar type 1 disorder .
Moreover a wide variety of central nervous system diseases , from both  बाह्य substances और आतंरिक physiologic बीमारी , can उपज लक्षण  of psychosis .
This led many  पेशेवर to कह कि मनस्ताप is नहीं  specific enough as a diagnostic term .
Despite this , `` psychosis '' is generally given to noticeable deficits in  सामान्य बर्ताव ( ऋणात्मक लक्षण ) और अधिक commonly to विविध  types of hallucinations or delusional beliefs ( e.g . grandiosity , delusions of persecution ) .
Someone exhibiting very obvious signs  may be वर्णित as `` frankly psychotic '' , whereas एक exhibiting बहुत हल्का लक्षण could be  classified in the category of an `` attenuated psychotic risk syndrome '' .
An excess in dopaminergic signalling is traditionally linked to  the धनात्मक लक्षण of मनस्ताप , विशेषकर those of schizophrenia  .
This is thought to occur  through a यांत्रिकी of aberrant salience  of environmental stimuli .
Many antipsychotic drugs accordingly target the dopamine  प्रणाली ; meta-analyses of placebo-controlled ट्रायल of ये दवाएँ , however , दिखाएँ either no significant अंतर between ड्रग और placebo , or  a very small effect size , suggesting that the pathophysiology of psychosis is much more complex than an overactive dopamine system .
लोगों experiencing मनस्ताप may प्रदर्शनी कुछ व्यक्तित्व  changes and thought disorder .
depending on इसके गंभीरता , इस may be accompanied  by unusual or bizarre behavior , as well as difficulty with social interaction and impairment in carrying out daily life activities .
सामान्य grievous is a fictional  character in the Star Wars universe .
A recurring antagonist , he is the Supreme Commander of the Confederacy of Independent Systems , a  राजनैतिक गुट of ग्रहीय प्रणालियों waging युद्ध on the गांगेय गणतंत्र  .
Trained in all seven forms of lightsaber combat by  गिनती dooku , he is a निष्ठुर और शक्तिशाली योद्धा devoted  to Jedi 's destruction during the Clone Wars .
His acts of wanton aggression and high Jedi body  गिनती होता संकेत the आकाशगंगा to दे उसे  the nickname the Knightslayer .
Though the notorious Jedi slayer was the being in the galaxy during the Clone Wars who had killed the most Jedi in single  कॉम्बैट , he किया नहीं संकोच to भागो इससे लड़ाइयों he knew he होता खोना  .
Statistics play an important role  in summarizing बेसबॉल प्रदर्शन और evaluating खिलाड़ी  in the sport .
Since the flow of a baseball game has natural breaks to it , and normally  खिलाड़ी अधिनियम individually बल्कि than performing in क्लस्टर , the खेल lends  itself to easy record-keeping and statistics .
Statistics have been kept for professional baseball since the creation of  the नेशनल लीग और अमरीकी लीग , अभी भाग  of Major League Baseball .
Many statistics are also available from outside of Major  लीग बेसबॉल , इससे लीग ऐसे as the नेशनल संघ  of Professional Base Ball Players and the Negro Leagues .
Dorothea  lange 's migrant माँ depicts अक्षम मटर pickers in कैलिफ़ोर्निया , centering on फ्लोरेंस ओवेन्स थॉम्पसन  , age 32 , a mother of seven children , in Nipomo , California , March 1936 .
USA annual real GDP from  1910–60 , साथ the सालो of the ग्रेट अवसाद ( 1929–1939  ) highlighted .
The unemployment rate in  the us 1910–1960 , साथ the सालो of the  Great Depression ( 1929–1939 ) highlighted .
the ग्रेट अवसाद थी a कठोर विश्वव्यापी आर्थिक  depression in the decade preceding World War II .
the समय of the ग्रेट अवसाद varied आरपार  nations , but in most countries it started in 1930 and lasted until the late 1930s or middle 1940s .
It was the longest , most  फैली , और deepest अवसाद of the 20th सदी  .
In the 21st century  , the ग्रेट अवसाद is commonly प्रयुक्त as an उदाहरण of कैसा दूर the  world 's economy can decline .
The depression originated in the U.S. , after the fall in stock prices that began  around सितंबर 4 , 1929 , और became विश्वव्यापी न्यूज साथ the भण्डार मार्केट क्रैश of अक्तूबर 29 , 1929 ( ज्ञात  as Black Tuesday ) .
the ग्रेट अवसाद था विनाशकारी प्रभाव  in countries rich and poor .
Personal income  , कर आय , profits और कीमतें dropped ,  while international trade plunged by more than 50 % .
Unemployment in  the u.S. रोज़ to 25 % , और in कुछ  countries rose as high as 33 % .
Cities all around the world were hit  मुश्किल , विशेषकर those निर्भर  on heavy industry .
Construction  थी वस्तुतः halted in  many countries .
Farming and  ग्रामीण क्षेत्रों suffered as क्रॉप  prices fell by approximately 60 % .
Facing plummeting demand  साथ few वैकल्पिक स्त्रोत of कार्य , क्षेत्रों निर्भर on प्राथमिक सेक्टर  industries such as cash cropping , mining and logging suffered the most .
Some economies started to  रिकवर by the mid-1930s  .
In  अनेक देशों , the ऋणात्मक प्रभाव of the ग्रेट  Depression lasted until the end of World War II .
A premature ventricular contraction ( PVC ) , also known as a premature ventricular complex , ventricular premature  संकुचन ( or जटिल or देवालय ) ( vpc ) , ventricular असामयिक ताल ( vpb ) , or ventricular extrasystole ( ves ) , is a अपेक्षाकृत आम इवेंट जहाँ the धड़कन is initiated  by Purkinje fibres in the ventricles rather than by the sinoatrial node , the normal heartbeat initiator .
The electrical events of the heart  detected by the electrocardiogram allow a पीवीसी to be easily विशिष्ट  from a normal heart beat .
A PVC  may be आभास as a `` छोड़ा ताल ``  or felt as palpitations in the chest .
In a normal heartbeat , the ventricles contract after the atria have helped to fill them by  contracting ; in इस रास्ता the ventricles can पंप a maximized राशि of रक्त  both to the lungs and to the rest of the body .
In a PVC , the  ventricles अनुबंध पहला और पहले the atria have optimally भर the  ventricles with blood , which means that circulation is inefficient .
However , single beat PVC  arrhythmias do नहीं प्रायः पोज़ a खतरे और can be asymptomatic in स्वस्थ  individuals .
William Gary Busey ( born  जून 29 , 1944 ) , बेहतर ज्ञात as गेरी busey , is  an American film and stage actor , and artist .
He has appeared in a variety of films , including  lethal हथियार , पाइंट ब्रेक , और अंतर्गत घेरा , as खूब as अतिथि दिखावे on gunsmoke , वाकर  , Texas Ranger , Law & Order , and Entourage .
He was  मनोनीत लिये an अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन कर्ता  in 1978 for his role in The Buddy Holly Story .
The  anti-counterfeiting व्यापार अनुबंध ( acta ) , is a बहुराष्ट्रीय सन्धि लिये the purpose of establishing  international standards for intellectual property rights enforcement .
The agreement aims to establish an international  विधिक फ्रेमवर्क लिये लक्ष्यीकरण नकली goods , जेनेरिक दवाइयाँ और कापीराइट infringement on the अंतरजाल , और होता बनाएँ a नई शासी देह बाहर मौजूदा forums , ऐसे as the संसार व्यापार संगठन  , the World Intellectual Property Organization , or the United Nations .
The agreement was signed in October 2011 by Australia , Canada , Japan  , मोरक्को , नई जीलैंड , सिंगापुर , दक्षिण कोरियाई , और the संयुक्त राज्य  .
In 2012 , Mexico , the European Union and 22  देशों जिससे हैं सदस्य राज्य of the यूरोपीय  Union signed as well .
One signatory ( Japan ) has ratified ( formally  स्वीकृत ) the अनुबंध , जिससे होता आइये into फ़ोर्स in देशों कि  ratified it after ratification by six countries .
Supporters have described the agreement as a response to `` the increase in global  व्यापार of नकली goods और pirated कापीराइट सुरक्षित  works '' .
ट्रेड संघ representing मजदूर in the म्यूज़िक , फिल्मी और tv उद्योग और विशाल बौद्धिक property-based संगठन  such as the Motion Picture Association of America and Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America were active in the treaty 's development .
प्रतिद्वंद्वियों कह the सम्मेलन adversely  affects fundamental rights including freedom of expression and privacy .
ACTA has also been criticised by Doctors Without  सीमायें लिये endangering अभिगम to दवाइयाँ  in developing countries .
The secret nature of  negotiations रै excluded सिविल समाज समूह , विकासशील देशों और the सामान्य पब्लिक इससे the अनुबंध 's negotiation  process and it has been described as policy laundering by critics including the Electronic Frontier Foundation and the Entertainment Consumers Association .
The signature of the EU and many of its member states  resulted in the इस्तीफा in विरोध of the यूरोपीय पार्लियामेंट 's नियुक्त मुख्य अन्वेषक  , rapporteur Kader Arif , as well as widespread protests across Europe .
In  2012 the newly-appointed rapporteur , अंग्रेजों mep दाउद मार्टिन , अनुशंसित विरूद्ध the सन्धि , stating : `` the  intended benefits of this international agreement are far outweighed by the potential threats to civil liberties '' .
On 4 July 2012 , the  यूरोपीय पार्लियामेंट अस्वीकृत the अनुबंध in plenary सत्र , साथ 478 मतदान  against the treaty , 39 in favour and 165 MEPs abstaining .
FAW  semi-trailer  truck in China
ट्रैक्टर साथ पक्ष डम्प ट्रेलर  semi-trailer
A tractor  साथ an auto-transport  semi-trailer .
Semi-trailer truck  साथ स्लीपर पीछे  the cab .
A  semi-trailer ट्रक is an articulated गाडी कि consists of a towing इंजन , ज्ञात  as a tractor in the United States and truck in many other places , attached to one or more semi-trailers to carry freight .
It is also known as a transport in Canada , prime mover in Australia , semi , tractor-trailer , truck and trailer , transfer truck , 18-wheeler , mack truck  , बिग रिग in the संयुक्त राज्य , or artic , छोटी लिये articulated लारी  , in Britain and Ireland .
A semi-trailer does not trail completely behind the towing vehicle , but is attached  at a पाइंट कि is बस आगे of the rear-most  axle of the towing unit .
This is done so that a fraction of the weight of  the ट्रेलर is carried by the प्रधान  mover .
This  व्यवस्था अर्थात् कि दोनो ट्रैक्टर और semi-trailer होगा have  a distinctly different design than a rigid truck and trailer .
The Pittsburgh Steelers are a professional  फ़ुटबॉल टोली आधारित in पिट्सबर्ग , पेन्सिलवेनिया  .
The team currently  belongs to the उत्तर प्रभाग of the अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल सम्मेलन  ( AFC ) in the National Football League ( NFL ) .
Founded in , the  स्टीलर्स हैं the oldest मताधिकार in the afc  .
Pittsburgh has won more Super Bowl  शीर्षक ( छह ) , जीती अधिक afc चैंपियनशिप खेल ( आठ ) और निभाई in ( पंद्रह )  and hosted more ( eleven ) conference championship games than any other AFC or NFC team .
The Steelers share the record for most  सुपर कटोरी दिखावे साथ the डलास cowboys (  eight ) .
The Steelers won their most recent championship ,  सुपर कटोरी xliii , on फ़रवरी 1 ,  2009 .
The Steelers were founded as the Pittsburgh Pirates on July 8 , 1933 , by Art Rooney , taking its original name from the  बेसबॉल टोली of the वही नाम , as थी आम अभ्यास लिये एनएफएल टीमों to do at  the time .
The ownership of the  स्टीलर्स रै remained भीतर the रूनी परिवार  since its founding .
The current owner is Art 's son , Dan Rooney , who has  दिए much कंट्रोल of the मताधिकार to उसके बेटे आर्ट रूनी  II .
Long one of the NFL 's flagship teams , the Steelers enjoy a large  , फैली fanbase nicknamed  Steeler Nation .
The Steelers  फिलहाल खेल उनके घर खेल at हाइन्ज़ फ़ील्ड on पिट्सबर्ग 's उत्तर पक्ष in the  North Shore neighborhood , which also hosts the University of Pittsburgh Panthers .
Built in 2001 ,  the स्टेडियम replaced तीन नदियाँ स्टेडियम जिससे hosted  the Steelers for 31 seasons .
Prior to Three Rivers , the Steelers had played  उनके खेल in pitt स्टेडियम और फोर्ब्स  Field .
तीन अलग kinds  of wheat and rye flour
Flour is a  चूर्ण जिससे is बना by पीस खाद्यान्न दाने , or अन्य बीज  or roots ( like Cassava ) .
It is the main ingredient of bread , which is a staple food for many cultures , making the availability of  पर्याप्त आपूर्तियाँ of आटा a प्रमुख आर्थिक और राजनैतिक समस्या  at various times throughout history .
Wheat flour is one of the most important foods in European , North  अमरीकी , मध्य पूर्वी , भारतीय और उत्तर अफ़्रीकी संस्कृतियों , और is  the defining ingredient in most of their styles of breads and pastries .
While wheat is the most common base for flour ,  मकई आटा रै महरूम महत्वपूर्ण in mesoamerican भोजन  since ancient times , and remains a staple throughout the Americas .
Rye flour is an important constituent of bread in much of central Europe , and rice  can भी be प्रयुक्त in आटा , हालांकि इस is अपेक्षाकृत uncommon  .
Heart rate is the number of  heartbeats प्रति ईकाई of समय , typically expressed as बीट्स  per minute ( bpm ) .
Heart rate can vary as the body 's need to absorb oxygen and excrete carbon dioxide  परिवर्तन , ऐसे as दौरान शारीरिक कसरत , नींद , बीमारी , or  as a result of ingesting drugs :
सेंट्रल बेचैन प्रणाली stimulants  such as amphetamines increase heart rate .
Central nervous system depressants or sedatives decreases  the दिल रेट ( अलावा इससे कुछ विशेषकर अजीब ones साथ बराबर अजीब प्रभाव , ऐसे as केटामाइन जिससे  can cause - amongst many other things - stimulant-like effects such as tachycardia ) .
There are many ways in which the  दिल रेट speeds up or slows bas  .
Most involve stimulant-like endorphins and hormones being released in the brain , many of which are those that are  'forced'/'enticed ' आउट by the ingestion और प्रसंस्करण of दवाएँ  .
Due to individuals  having a निरंतर रक्त आवाज़ , एक of the physiological तरीके to उद्धार  more oxygen to an organ is to increase heart rate to permit blood to pass by the organ more often .
Normal resting  दिल दरों दायरा इससे 60-100 bpm  .
मंदनाड़ी is पारिभाषित as a resting  heart rate below 60 bpm .
However , heart rates from  50 to 60 bpm हैं आम among स्वस्थ लोगों और do नहीं necessarily  require special attention .
Tachycardia is defined as a resting  दिल रेट ऊपर 100 bpm , हालांकि persistent बाकी दरों between 80-100 bpm , मुख्यतः if वे हैं उपस्थित दौरान  sleep , may be signs of hyperthyroidism or anemia ( see below ) .
Catherine II 's carved , painted and  gilded राजतिलक कोच ( hermitage  Museum )
A carriage is a wheeled vehicle for people , usually horse-drawn ; litters ( palanquins )  और सेडान कुर्सियां हैं excluded , चूंकि वे हैं wheelless  vehicles .
The carriage is especially designed for  निजी यात्री उपयोग और लिये सुकून or लालित्य , हालांकि कुछ हैं भी प्रयुक्त  to transport goods .
It may  be लाइट , smart और तेज़ or भारी  , large and comfortable .
Carriages normally have suspension using leaf springs ,  अंडाकार स्रोतों ( in the 19th सदी ) or चमड़े  strapping .
A public passenger vehicle would not usually be called  a carriage – शर्तें लिये ऐसे शामिल stagecoach , charabanc  and omnibus .
Working vehicles such as the ( four-wheeled ) wagon and ( two-wheeled )  कार्ट share महत्वपूर्ण भाग of the इतिहास of the carriage , as is the  fast ( two-wheeled ) chariot .
The 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake was an undersea megathrust earthquake  कि occurred at 00:58:53 utc on संडे , 26 दिसम्बर 2004 , साथ an epicentre  off the west coast of Sumatra , Indonesia .
The  भूकंप itself is ज्ञात by the वैज्ञानिक  community as the Sumatra–Andaman earthquake .
The resulting tsunami was given various names , including the  2004 भारतीय समंदर सुनामी , दक्षिण एशियाई सुनामी , इंडोनेशियाई  tsunami , and the Boxing Day tsunami .
The earthquake was caused by subduction and triggered a series of devastating  tsunamis साथ the coasts of सबसे landmasses bordering the भारतीय समंदर , हत्या over 230,000 लोगों in चौदह  countries , and inundating coastal communities with waves up to high .
It was one of the  deadliest प्राकृतिक आपदाओं  in recorded history .
Indonesia was the hardest-hit country ,  followed by श्री लंका , इण्डिया , और थाईलैंड  .
With a  परिमाण of mw 9.1–9.3 , it is the तीसरा largest  earthquake ever recorded on a seismograph .
The earthquake had the  longest अवधि of faulting कभी  observed , between 8.3 and 10 minutes .
It caused the entire planet to vibrate  as much as और triggered अन्य भूकंप as दूर दूर  as Alaska .
इसके epicentre थी between  Simeulue and mainland Indonesia .
The  दुर्दशा of the प्रभावित लोगों और देशों  prompted a worldwide humanitarian response .
in सब , the विश्वव्यापी जातियाँ दान अधिक than $ 14 अरब  ( 2004 US $ ) in humanitarian aid .
Steam rising from the  nesjavellir geothermal शक्ति स्टेशन in आइसलैंड  .
geothermal उर्जा is थर्मल उर्जा उत्पन्न  and stored in the Earth .
Thermal energy is the energy that determines  the तापमान of पदार्थ  .
The Geothermal energy of the Earth 's crust originates from the original formation  of the ग्रह ( 20 % ) और इससे रेडियोसक्रिय क्षय of खनिज ( 80 %  ) .
The geothermal gradient , which is the difference in temperature between  the कोर of the ग्रह और इसके सतह , ड्राइव a निरन्तर conduction of थर्मल उर्जा in the रूप of ऊष्मा इससे the कोर to  the surface .
The  क्रियाशील geothermal originates इससे the यूनानी जड़ें γη ( ge  ) , meaning earth , and θερμος ( thermos ) , meaning hot .
at the कोर of the धरती , थर्मल उर्जा is निर्मित by रेडियोसक्रिय  decay and temperatures may reach over 5000 °C ( 9,000 °F ) .
Heat conducts from the core  to surrounding कूलर चट्टान  .
The high temperature and  दबाव कारण कुछ चट्टान to melt , बनाना मैग्मा संवहन upward चूंकि  it is lighter than the solid rock .
The magma  heats चट्टान और जल in the क्रस्ट , sometimes  up to 370 °C ( 700 °F ) .
From hot  स्रोतों , geothermal उर्जा रै महरूम प्रयुक्त लिये स्नान चूंकि paleolithic टाइम्स और  for space heating since ancient Roman times , but it is now better known for electricity generation .
Worldwide , about 10,715  megawatts ( mw ) of geothermal शक्ति is ऑनलाइन  in 24 countries .
An additional 28 gigawatts of direct geothermal heating  क्षमता is संस्थापित लिये ज़िला हीटिंग , स्पेस हीटिंग , स्पा  , industrial processes , desalination and agricultural applications .
geothermal शक्ति is लागत प्रभावी , विश्वसनीय , चिरस्थायी , और environmentally  friendly , but has historically been limited to areas near tectonic plate boundaries .
Recent technological advances have dramatically expanded the range and size of viable  संसाधन , विशेषकर लिये अनुप्रयोग ऐसे as घर हीटिंग , खोलने a संभावित लिये फैली  exploitation .
Geothermal wells release greenhouse gases trapped deep  भीतर the धरती , लकिन ये emissions हैं much निम्नतर प्रति उर्जा ईकाई  than those of fossil fuels .
As a result , geothermal power  रै the संभावित to सहायता mitigate वैश्विक वार्मिंग if widely  deployed in place of fossil fuels .
The Earth 's  geothermal संसाधन हैं theoretically अधिक than  adequate to supply humanity 's energy needs , but only a very small fraction may be profitably exploited .
Drilling and exploration for deep  संसाधन is बहुत महंगी  .
Forecasts for the future of geothermal power depend  on assumptions परिचय प्रौद्योगिकी , उर्जा कीमतें , subsidies , और ब्याज दरों  .
Pilot programs like EWEB 's customer opt in Green Power Program show that customers  होता be willing to अदा a छोटी अधिक लिये a बेदर्दी उर्जा सोर्स जैसे  geothermal .
But as a result of government assisted research and  उद्योग अनुभव , the लागत of generating geothermal शक्ति रै  decreased by 25 % over the past two decades .
In 2001 , geothermal energy cost  between दो और टेन सेंट प्रति सम्पात  .
The term cubic foot  is an इम्पीरियल और us प्रथागत  ( non- metric ) unit of volume , used in the United States and the United Kingdom .
it is पारिभाषित as the आवाज़ of a घन साथ पहलू  of one foot ( 0.3048 m ) in length .
To calculate cubic feet  गुणा लंबाई x चौडाई x ऊँचाई .
Hồ Chí Minh ( Northern Vietnamese pronunciation : , Southern Vietnamese pronunciation : ) ; 19 May 1890 – 2 September 1969 ) , born Nguyễn Sinh Cung and also known as Nguyễn Tất  thành और nguyễn ái quốc , थी a वियतनामी कम्युनिस्ट क्रांतिकारी नेता जो थी प्रधान मंत्री ( 1945–1955 ) और अध्यक्ष ( 1945–1969 ) of the लोकतांत्रिक गणतंत्र of वियतनाम  ( North Vietnam ) .
He was a key figure in the foundation of the Democratic  गणतंत्र of वियतनाम in 1945 , as खूब as the people’s फौज of वियतनाम ( pavn ) और the  Việt Cộng ( NLF or VC ) during the Vietnam War .
He led the Việt Minh independence movement from 1941 onward ,  establishing the कम्युनिस्ट -नियमd लोकतांत्रिक गणतंत्र of वियतनाम in 1945  and defeating the French Union in 1954 at the battle of Điện Biên Phủ .
He  officially stepped bas इससे शक्ति in 1955 due to स्वास्थ्य समस्याएं , लकिन remained a अत्यधिक दृश्य figurehead और प्रेरणा लिये those  Vietnamese fighting for his cause—a united , communist Vietnam—until his death .
बाद the युद्ध , साइगॉन , पूंजी of the गणतंत्र  of Vietnam , was renamed Hồ Chí Minh City .
All Roads Lead Home is a  विशेषता फिल्मी released on सितंबर  26 , 2008 .
Directed by Dennis Fallon , it stars Peter Boyle , Patton Oswalt , Jason London ,  vivien cardone , वैनेसा शाखा , पीटर कायोटी , स्टीफन मिल्टन , और allan kayser  .
The  फिल्म थी फिल्माया in और around कान्सास  City , Missouri .
The movie made its World  प्रीमियर जनवरी 27 at the सांता बारबरा  International Film Festival .
The film has also recently been in  अनेक फिल्मी त्यौहार , और रै प्राप्त  bad reviews .
Peter Boyle died  पहले the फिल्म 's रिलीज .
It was the  पिछला फिल्म he appeared  in .
Sales taxes in the United States are taxes  लगाई on the बिक्री or पट्टे of goods और सेवाएं in the  United States .
While  no नेशनल सामान्य बिक्री कर exists , the संघीय सरकारी levies अनेक नेशनल चयनात्मक  sales taxes on the sale or lease of particular goods and services .
Furthermore , forty-five  राज्य , the ज़िला of कोलंबिया , और गुआम थोपने सामान्य बिक्री कर कि लागू to the बिक्री or पट्टे of  most goods and some services , and states also may levy selective sales taxes on the sale or lease of particular goods or services .
States may also  प्रतिनिधि to लोकल सरकारें the प्राधिकार to थोपने  additional general or selective sales taxes .
Sales tax is  गणना by multiplying the खरीदें दाम by the लागू  tax rate .
Tax rates vary widely by jurisdiction and  दायरा इससे कम than 1 % to over  10 % .
Sales tax is  एकत्रित by the विक्रेता  at the time of sale .
Use tax is self assessed by a buyer who  रै नहीं सशुल्क बिक्री कर on a taxable  purchase .
Unlike the value added tax , a sales tax  is imposed तभी एकबार , at the खुदरा स्तर .
However , in cases where  वस्तुएं हैं बेची at खुदरा अधिक than एकबार , ऐसे as प्रयुक्त  cars , the sales tax can be charged on the same item indefinitely .
The definition  of खुदरा बिक्री और कया goods  and services are taxable vary among the states .
Nearly all jurisdictions provide numerous categories  of goods और सेवाएं कि हैं exempt इससे बिक्री कर  , or taxed at reduced rates .
The purchase  of goods लिये further manufacture or  for resale is uniformly exempt from sales tax .
Most jurisdictions  exempt खाना बेची in किराना स्टोर्स , नुस्खा  medications , and many agricultural supplies .
Sales  कर , सहित those imposed by लोकल सरकारें , हैं  generally administered at the state level .
States imposing sales tax require retail  विक्रेता to collect कर इससे ग्राहक ,  file returns , and remit the tax to the state .
Procedural  नियम vary widely  .
Sellers generally must collect tax from in-state purchasers  जबतक the क्रेता provides an exemption प्रमाणपत्र  .
Most states allow  or आवश्यकता इलेक्ट्रॉनिक  remittance .
A central processing unit ( CPU ) ,  भी referred to as a सेंट्रल प्रोसेसर ईकाई , is the हार्डवेयर भीतर a कंप्यूटर कि  carries out the instructions of a computer program by performing the basic arithmetical , logical , and input/output operations of the system .
The term has  महरूम in उपयोग in the कंप्यूटर  industry at least since the early 1960s .
The form , design , and  क्रियान्वयन of cpu have बदला over the कोर्स of उनके इतिहास  , but their fundamental operation remains much the same .
A computer can have more than  एक cpu ; इस is पुकारा  multiprocessing .
Some integrated circuits ( ICs ) can contain multiple CPUs on a single chip ;  those ics हैं पुकारा multi-core processors  .
Two typical components of a CPU are  the गणित लॉजिक ईकाई ( alu ) , जिससे performs  arithmetic and logical operations , and the control unit ( CU ) , which extracts instructions from memory and decodes and executes them , calling on the ALU when necessary .
Not all computational systems rely on  a सेंट्रल प्रसंस्करण ईकाई  .
An array  प्रोसेसर or वेक्टर प्रोसेसर रै अनेक समानांतर कम्प्यूटिंग तत्व ,  with no one unit considered the `` center '' .
In the distributed computing  मॉडल , समस्याएं हैं हल by a वितरित  interconnected set of processors .
RFID chip  अगला to a अनाज  of rice .
This chip contains a  radio-frequency इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक फ़ील्ड कुंडली कि modulates an बाह्य चुम्बकीय फ़ील्ड to ट्रांसफ़र a coded पहचान  number when queried by a reader device .
This small type is incorporated in consumer  उत्पाद , और implanted in पालतु , लिये  identification purposes .
Radio-frequency identification ( RFID ) is  the बेतार non-contact उपयोग of radio-frequency इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक फ़ील्ड to ट्रांसफ़र आंकड़ा  , for the purposes of automatically identifying and tracking tags attached to objects .
the टैग contain  electronically stored information .
कुछ टैग हैं संचालित और पढ़ा at छोटी  ranges ( a few meters ) via magnetic fields ( electromagnetic induction ) .
Others use a local power source such as a battery , or else have no battery but collect energy from the interrogating EM  फ़ील्ड , और तब अधिनियम as a passive transponder to emit microwaves  or UHF radio waves ( i.e. , electromagnetic radiation at high frequencies ) .
Battery  संचालित टैग may operate at सैंकड़ों  of meters .
नापसंद a बार कोड , the टैग करता नहीं necessarily need  to be within line of sight of the reader , and may be embedded in the tracked object .
RFID tags are used in  अनेक उद्योग  .
An RFID tag  संलग्न to an ऑटोमोबाइल दौरान उत्पादन can be  used to track its progress through the assembly line .
दवाएँ can be tracked through  warehouses .
Livestock  और पालतु may have टैग injected , allowing  positive identification of the animal .
Since RFID  टैग can be संलग्न to कपडे , possessions , or भी implanted भीतर लोगों , the सम्भावना of पढना  personally-linked information without consent has raised privacy concerns .
Overtime is the amount  of समय किसी works परे  normal working hours .
सामान्य घंटों may be संकल्पित  in several ways:
by custom (  कया is माना स्वस्थ or उचित  by society ) ,
by practices of  a दिए व्यापार or profession,
by  legislation,
by agreement between  नियोक्ता और मजदूर or उनके प्रतिनिधि  .
Most nations have overtime labor laws  designed to dissuade or prevent नियोक्ता इससे forcing उनके  employees to work excessively long hours .
These laws may take into account  अन्य considerations than the humanitarian , ऐसे as preserving  the health of workers so that they may continue to be productive , or increasing the overall level of employment in the economy .
One common approach to regulating overtime is to require  नियोक्ता to अदा मजदूर at a उच्चतर hourly रेट लिये  overtime work .
Companies may choose to pay workers higher  ओवरटाइम अदा भी if नहीं obliged to do so by विधि , विशेषकर if वे मानना  that they face a backward bending supply curve of labour .
Overtime pay rates can cause workers to  कार्य longer घंटों than वे होता at a चपटा hourly रेट  .
ओवरटाइम कानून , attitudes toward ओवरटाइम और घंटों of कार्य vary greatly  from country to country and between different economic sectors .
कल्पना of कड़ी between पृष्ठों on a विक  using a force-directed layout .
Force-directed graph drawing algorithms are a  क्लास of algorithms लिये आरेखण रेखाचित्र in an aesthetically  pleasing way .
Their purpose is to position the nodes of a graph in two-dimensional or three-dimensional space so that all the edges are of more or less equal length and there are as few crossing edges  as संभावित , by assigning शक्तियां among the नियत of किनारे और the नियत of नोड , आधारित on उनके सापेक्ष स्थितियाँ , और तब using ये शक्तियां either to सिमुलेट the गति of the किनारे और  nodes or to minimize their energy .
While  आलेख आरेखण can be a मुश्किल प्रॉब्लम , force-directed algorithms , होने  physical simulations , usually require no special knowledge about graph theory such as planarity .
Purchasing power (  sometimes retroactively पुकारा समायोजित लिये महंगाई ) is the राशि  of goods or services that can be purchased with a unit of currency .
For example , if you had taken one dollar to a store in the  1950s , तुम होता have महरूम समर्थ to ख़रीदे a वृहद क्रमांक of वस्तुएं than तुम होता आज , indicating कि  you would have had a greater purchasing power in the 1950s .
Currency can be either a  कमोडिटी धन , जैसे सुनहरा or चांदी , or  fiat currency , or free-floating market-valued currency like US dollars .
As Adam Smith noted , having money gives one the ability to `` command ''  अन्य ' मजदूर , so खरीदना शक्ति to कुछ extent is शक्ति over अन्य लोगों , to the extent कि वे हैं willing to व्यापार उनके मजदूर  or goods for money or currency .
If one 's monetary income stays the same , but the price level  increases , the खरीदना शक्ति of कि आय जलप्रपात  .
Inflation does not always imply falling purchasing power of one 's money income since  it may वृद्धि तेज़ than the दाम स्तर .
A higher real income  अर्थात् a उच्चतर खरीदना शक्ति चूंकि रियल आय refers to the  income adjusted for inflation .
For a price index , its value  in the आधार साल is प्रायः सामान्यीकृत  to a value of 100 .
The purchasing power of a unit of currency , say a dollar  , in a दिए साल , expressed in डॉलर of the आधार  year , is 100/P , where P is the price index in that year .
So , by definition  the खरीदना शक्ति of a डालर decreases  as the price level rises .
The purchasing power  in आज 's धन of an राशि c of धन , t सालो into the भविष्य  , can be computed with the formula for the present value :
where in this case i is an assumed  भविष्य सालाना महंगाई  rate .
Education in  दक्षिण कोरियाई is viewed as होने निर्णायक लिये कामयाबी और प्रतियोगिता  is consequently very heated and fierce .
a सेंट्रल प्रशासन oversees the प्रक्रम लिये the शिक्षा  of children from kindergarten to the third and final year of high school .
गणित , विज्ञान , कोरियाई , अंग्रेज़ी , और सोशल अध्ययन हैं generally  considered to be the most important subjects .
Normally physical education is not considered important as it is not  recognised , by the generally अकादमिक elitist दक्षिण कोरियाई populace , as शिक्षा और इसलिए अनेक स्कूलों  lack high-quality gymnasiums and varsity athletics .
South Korea was the first country  in the संसार to provide high-speed  internet access to all primary , junior , and high schools .
Although South Korean students often rank highly on international comparative assessments when compared to students of most Western education systems , the South Korean education system is  criticised लिये emphasising too much upon passive सीखना और memorisation  .
The South Korean education system is rather notably  सख्त और overly संरचित as compared to इसके counterparts  in most Western societies .
Also , the prevalence of non-school for-profit private institutes such as academies or cram-schools ( Hagwon [ 학원 ] ) , which too  emphasise on passive memorisation , as opposed to conceptual समझना , in विद्यार्थी हैं criticised as a प्रमुख  social problem .
The My Lai Massacre ( , ; , , or ) was the Vietnam War mass  हत्या of between 347 और 504 निहत्थे नागरिकों in दक्षिण वियतनाम on कूच 16 , 1968 , by संयुक्त राज्य फौज सैनिको of `` चार्ली '' कम्पनी  of 1st Battalion , 20th Infantry Regiment , 11th Brigade of the Americal Division .
Victims  शामिल महिलाओं , मेन , children  , and infants .
Some of the women were gang-raped and their  लाशें यहूद बाद मिला to be mutilated और अनेक महिलाओं यहूद allegedly  raped prior to the killings .
While 26 U.S. soldiers  यहूद initially चार्ज साथ दण्ड offenses लिये उनके क्रियाएँ at mỹ lai , तभी दूसरी लेफ्टिनेंट  William Calley , a platoon leader in Charlie Company , was convicted .
Found guilty of killing 22  ग्रामीणों , he थी originally  given a life sentence , but only served three and a half years under house arrest .
The  नरसंहार took प्लेस in the hamlets  of My Lai and My Khe of Son My village .
the इवेंट is भी ज्ञात as the बेटे my नरसंहार  , especially in the Vietnamese state media .
The U.S.  सैन्य codeword लिये the `` viet cong stronghold  '' was `` Pinkville '' .
The incident prompted  वैश्विक आक्रोश जब it became पब्लिक ज्ञान  in 1969 .
The massacre also  increased घरेलू विपक्ष to the u.S. भागीदारी  in the Vietnam War .
Three U.S. servicemen who had tried to halt the massacre and  protect the wounded यहूद initially denounced by अनेक  U.S . Congressmen as traitors .
They received  नफ़रत मेल और मौत खतरे और  found mutilated animals on their doorsteps .
The three were later widely praised and  सजा by the फौज लिये उनके वीर क्रियाएँ  .
The hijackers in the September 11 attacks were  19 मेन संबद्ध साथ al-qaeda , और 15 of the 19 यहूद नागरिकों  of Saudi Arabia .
Others were  इससे मिश्र , लेबनान ,  and the UAE .
The hijackers were organized into four teams , each led by a  pilot-trained hijacker साथ चार `` मांसपेशी hijackers '' जो यहूद प्रशिक्षित to सहायता  subdue the pilots , passengers , and crew .
The  पहला hijackers to arrive in the संयुक्त राज्य यहूद खालिद al-mihdhar और nawaf al-hazmi  , who settled in the San Diego area in January 2000 .
They were followed by three hijacker-pilots , Mohamed Atta , Marwan al-Shehhi , and Ziad Jarrah early in the  गर्मियाँ of 2000 to undertake उड़ान प्रशिक्षण in दक्षिण  Florida .
The fourth hijacker-pilot , Hani  hanjour , arrived in सैन डिएगो in दिसम्बर 2000  .
The rest of the `` muscle hijackers '' arrived in the spring and  जल्दी गर्मियाँ of 2001 , बस महीने पहले the सितंबर  11 attacks .
Abū al-Qāsim Muḥammad ibn ʿAbd Allāh ibn ʿAbd al-Muṭṭalib ibn Hāshim ( ) ( circa| 570 –  circa| 8 जून 632 ) , भी transliterated as मुहम्मद ( ) , थी a धार्मिक , राजनैतिक  , and military leader from Mecca who unified Arabia into a single religious polity under Islam .
He is believed by Muslims and  bahá'ís to be a मेसेंजर और नबी of  God .
मुहम्मद is लगभग universally माना  by Muslims as the last prophet sent by God for mankind .
non-muslims लिहाज़  Muhammad as the founder of Islam .
मुसलमान consider उसे to be the restorer of an अनछुए  original monotheistic faith of Adam , Noah , Abraham , Moses , Jesus , and other prophets .
Born in about 570 CE in the Arabian city  of मक्का , he थी अनाथ at an जल्दी आयु और brought up अंतर्गत the परवाह of उसके  uncle Abu Talib .
He later worked mostly  as a व्यापारी , as खूब as a गड़रिये , और  was first married by age 25 .
Being in the habit of periodically retreating to a cave in the  surrounding kyu लिये अनेक नाइट्स of seclusion और दुआ , he बाद reported कि it थी वहीँ  , at age 40 , that he received his first revelation from God .
Three years after this event Muhammad started preaching these revelations  सरेआम , proclaiming कि `` परमेश्वर is एक `` , कि पूरा `` आत्मसमर्पण '' to  Him ( lit .
islām ) is the only way ( dīn  ) स्वीकार्य to परमेश्वर , और कि he खुद थी a नबी  and messenger of God , in the same vein as other Islamic prophets .
Muhammad gained few followers early on , and  थी मिले साथ दुश्मनी इससे कुछ meccan जनजातियों ; he और उसके अनुसरणकर्ता यहूद  treated harshly .
To escape persecution , Muhammad sent some of his  अनुसरणकर्ता to अबीसीनिया पहले he और उसके अनुसरणकर्ता in मक्का migrated to मदीना (  then known as Yathrib ) in the year 622 .
This event , the Hijra , marks the beginning  of the इस्लामी पंचांग , जिससे is भी ज्ञात as the  Hijri Calendar .
In Medina ,  मुहम्मद संयुक्त the जनजातियों अंतर्गत the संविधान  of Medina .
After eight years of fighting  साथ the meccan जनजातियों , उसके अनुसरणकर्ता , जो by तब था grown to  10,000 , took control of Mecca in the largely peaceful Conquest of Mecca .
He destroyed the pagan idols in the city  और तब भेजा उसके अनुसरणकर्ता आउट to नष्ट सब of the बाकी  pagan temples in Eastern Arabia .
In 632 , a few months after returning to  मदीना इससे the विदाई यात्राएं ,  Muhammad fell ill and died .
by the समय of उसके मौत , सबसे of the arabian प्रायद्वीप  had converted to Islam , and he had united Arabia into a single Muslim religious polity .
The  खुलासे ( or ayah  , lit .
`` Signs [ of God ] '' ) — which Muhammad reported receiving until his death – form  the आयतें of the कुरान , regarded  by Muslims as the `` Word of God '' and around which the religion is based .
Besides the Quran , Muhammad 's life ( sira ) and  परंपराओं ( सुन्नत ) हैं भी upheld by मुसलमान  as the sources of sharia law .
They discuss Muhammad and other prophets of Islam with reverence  , adding the phrase सलाम be upon उसे whenever उनके  names are mentioned .
While conceptions of  मुहम्मद in मध्यकालीन christendom और premodern टाइम्स  were largely negative , appraisals in modern history have been far less so .
This is a list of tables of the verified  oldest लोगों in the संसार in ordinal रैंक ,  such as oldest person or oldest man .
In these tables , a  supercentenarian is माना 'verified ' if उसके or उसके अर्जी रै महरूम validated by an अंतरराष्ट्रीय  body that specifically deals in longevity research , such as the Gerontology Research Group ( GRG ) or Guinness World Records .
The longest unambiguously documented  इंसान जीवनकाल is कि of jeanne calment of फ़्रांस ( 1875–1997 ) , जो died at आयु  122 years , 164 days .
वो मिले विंसेंट वैन gogh  when she was 12 or 13 .
This led to news media  ध्यान in 1985 , बाद  Calment turned 110 .
Subsequent investigation found  दस्तावेज़ीकरण लिये calment 's आयु , परे कोई उचित सवाल , in the रिकॉर्ड of उसके देशी  city , Arles , France .
More evidence of Calment 's lifespan has been  उत्पादित than लिये कोई अन्य supercentenarian ; उसके मामला serves as an archetype in the methodology लिये  verifying the ages of the world 's oldest people .
The longest undisputed lifespan for male supercentenarians is  कि of jiroemon किमुरा , जो फिलहाल जीवनदान in जापानी और is आयु as of  .
Since the death of 115-year old Dina Manfredini  of the संयुक्त राज्य , on 17 दिसम्बर 2012 , किमुरा , born 19 अप्रैल 1897 , is the oldest  living person in the world whose age can be documented .
He has also been the oldest living man  चूंकि the मौत of 114-year बूढ़ा वाल्टर breuning on 14 अप्रैल 2011  .
Since the death of 115-year old Koto Okubo of Japan on 12 January 2013 , the  oldest जीना स्त्री रै महरूम -year-old misao okawa , भी इससे जापानी , born  on 5 March 1898 .
This is a  समयरेखा of the african-american  Civil Rights Movement .
The Civil Rights movement was a freedom struggle by African Americans  in the 1950s और 1960s to लाभ समता  .
The goals of  the गति यहूद स्वतंत्रता इससे पक्षपात , बराबर अवसर in नियुक्ति  , education and housing , the right to vote and equal access to public facilities .
Heavy metal ( often referred to as metal ) is a genre of rock music that developed in the late 1960s and  जल्दी 1970s , largely in the संयुक्त किंगडम और in  the United States .
With roots in blues rock and psychedelic rock , the bands that created heavy metal developed  a मोटा , विशाल ध्वनि , characterized by अत्यधिक प्रवर्धित distortion , विस्तारित गिटार solos , emphatic  beats , and overall loudness .
Heavy metal lyrics and performance styles are generally  संबद्ध साथ मर्दानगी और machismo  .
The first heavy metal bands such as Led Zeppelin , Deep Purple and Black Sabbath attracted large audiences , though they were often derided  by आलोचकों , a औकात आम throughout the इतिहास  of the genre .
In the mid-1970s Judas  पुजारी helped spur the विधा 's एवोल्यूशन by discarding much of इसके ब्लूज़ influence  ; Motörhead introduced a punk rock sensibility and an increasing emphasis on speed .
Bands in the New Wave of  अंग्रेजों भारी मेटल ऐसे as आयरन maiden followed  in a similar vein .
Before the end of the decade , heavy metal fans became  ज्ञात as `` metalheads `` or `` headbangers ``  .
During the  1980s , glam मेटल became a वाणिज्यिक  force with groups like Mötley Crüe and Poison .
Underground  दृश्यों उत्पादित an सरणी of अधिक चरम , आक्रामक शैलियाँ : thrash मेटल broke into the मुख्यधारा  with bands such as Metallica , Megadeth , Slayer , and Anthrax , while other styles of the most extreme subgenres of metal like death metal and black metal remain subcultural phenomena .
Since the mid-1990s , popular styles such as nu metal , which often incorporates elements of grunge and hip hop ; and metalcore , which blends extreme  मेटल साथ हार्डकोर पंक , have further विस्तारित the परिभाषा of the विधा  .
The far-right (  भी ज्ञात as the चरम सही ) refers to  the highest degree of rightism in right-wing politics .
Far right politics involves support of strong or complete social hierarchy in society , and supports  सर्वोच्चता of निश्चित individuals or समूह deemed to be innately श्रेष्ठ or अस्तबलों जो  are to be more valued than those deemed to be innately inferior or undesirable .
The far right 's advocacy of supremacism is based on what its  adherents perceive as स्वाभाविक विशेषताएँ of लोगों  that can not be changed .
This stands as a point of difference with  the centre-right 's आरोपण of behaviours , ऐसे as आलस्य or decadence  , as the primary sources of social inequalities .
The centre right—unlike the far  right—claims कि लोगों can समाप्त उनके behavioural हीनता through बदलना  their habits and choices .
The original far right , which  उभरा in फ़्रांस बाद the फ्रेंच क्रान्ति , refused to accept the फ्रेंच गणतंत्र और समर्थित a counter-revolution  to restore the French monarchy and aristocracy .
The far right is commonly associated with persons or groups who hold extreme nationalist ,  xenophobic , जातिवाद , धार्मिक fundamentalist or प्रतिक्रियावादी  views .
the सबसे extreme-right आंदोलनों have धड़ा दमन और नरसंहार  against groups of people on the basis of their alleged inferiority .
Thomas Hobbes of Malmesbury ( 5 April 1588 – 4 December 1679 ) , in some older  ग्रन्थ थामस हाब्स of malmsbury , थी an अंग्रेज़ी पारस , बेहतरीन ज्ञात आज लिये उसके कार्य on राजनैतिक  philosophy .
His 1651 book Leviathan established the  न्यास लिये सबसे of पश्चिमी राजनैतिक दर्शनशास्त्र इससे the परिप्रेक्ष्य  of social contract theory .
Hobbes was a champion of absolutism for the sovereign , but he also developed some of the fundamentals of European liberal thought : the right of the individual ; the natural equality of all men ; the artificial character of the political order ( which  led to the बाद भेद between सिविल समाज और the राज्य ) ; the दृश्य कि सब legitimate राजनैतिक शक्ति जरूर be `` प्रतिनिधि '' और आधारित on the सहमति of the लोगों ; और a उदार निर्वचन of विधि जिससे पत्ते लोगों फ़्री to do whatever the  law does not explicitly forbid .
He was one of the  संस्थापकों of आधुनिक राजनैतिक दर्शनशास्त्र  .
His understanding of humans as being matter and motion , obeying the same  शारीरिक कानून as अन्य पदार्थ और गति , remains influential ; और उसके खाता of इंसान प्रकृति as self-interested सहयोग , और of राजनैतिक समुदायों  as being based upon a `` social contract `` remains one of the major topics of political philosophy .
In addition to political philosophy , Hobbes also contributed to a  विविध सरणी of अन्य फ़ील्ड , सहित इतिहास , भूगोल , the भौतिकी of गैसों , धर्मशास्त्र , आचार  , and general philosophy .
Emotional intelligence ( EI ) is the ability to identify , assess , and control  the भाव of oneself , of अन्य , और of  groups .
It can be  विभाजित into क्षमता  EI and trait EI .
Ability EI is usually measured  using अधिकतम प्रदर्शन परीक्षण और रै stronger संबंध साथ परंपरागत प्रज्ञा , whereas trait ei is प्रायः measured using  self-report questionnaires and has stronger relationships with personality .
Criticisms have  केन्द्रित on whether ei is a रियल प्रज्ञा और whether it रै वृद्धिशील  validity over IQ and the Big Five personality traits .
Heredity is the passing of  traits to औलाद इससे इसके  parents or ancestor .
This  is the प्रक्रम by जिससे an औलाद कोशिका or सजीव acquires or becomes predisposed  to the characteristics of its parent cell or organism .
Through  आनुवंशिकता , विसंगतियाँ exhibited by individuals can accumulate और कारण  some species to evolve .
The study of heredity  in जीवविज्ञान is पुकारा आनुवंशिकी , जिससे शामिल the फ़ील्ड  of epigenetics .
For United States individual income tax , adjusted gross  आय ( agi ) is कुल सकल आय ऋण विशिष्ट reductions  .
Taxable  आय is समायोजित सकल आय ऋण भत्तों लिये निजी  exemptions and itemized deductions .
For most  व्यक्तिगत कर उद्देश्य , agi is अधिक प्रासंगिक than  gross income .
Gross income is sales price of goods or property  , ऋण लागत of the प्रॉपर्टी बेची , प्लस अन्य  income .
It includes wages ,  ब्याज , dividends , कारोबार आय , rental आय  , and all other types of income .
Adjusted gross income is gross income  कम deductions इससे a कारोबार or rental कार्यकलाप  and 21 other specific items .
Several  deductions ( e.g . चिकित्सा खर्च और विविध  itemized deductions ) are limited based on a percentage of AGI .
Certain phase outs ,  सहित those of निम्नतर कर दरों  and itemized deductions , are based on levels of AGI .
Many states base state income  कर on agi साथ निश्चित  deductions .
`` Lazy Eye '' is the third single  इससे silversun pickups ' डेब्यू  album Carnavas .
The band performed the song on the Late Show with David Letterman ,  the tonight दिखाएँ साथ jay लीनो , बाद साथ jools हॉलैंड , और  Last Call with Carson Daly .
The  सोंग is a playable track on चट्टान बैंड  2 and Guitar Hero : World Tour .
An alternate version of the song , with a length of 7:27 , was  निभाई on xmu पहले the shorter संस्करण थी निभाई on fm और अन्य xm चैनल्स  .
This version was featured on their demo CD ( which  प्रदर्शित जल्दी संस्करण of चार ट्रैक्स  ) .
A  टेलीफोन उपसर्ग is the पहला नियत of अंक of a टेलीफोन  number ; in the North American Numbering Plan countries ( country code 1 ) , it is the first three digits of a seven-digit phone number .
In other  देशों दोनो the उपसर्ग और the क्रमांक may  have different lengths .
It shows which  एक्सचेंज the बाकी  numbers refer to .
A full telephone number is usually made up of country code  ( जरूरी लिये अंतरराष्ट्रीय काल्स तभी ) , क्षेत्रफल कोड ( जरूरी लिये काल्स between  telephone areas ) , prefix , and subscriber number .
Some places restrict certain prefixes to fax  संख्याएँ or कोशिका फोन तभी ; in अन्य स्थान ऐसे समर्पित prefixes हैं  not used .
As telephone technology advanced , the precise significance of the prefix became blurred in many  स्थान ; 485 in लंदन , uk , थी एकबार the gulliver एक्सचेंज , लकिन अभी 44207485xxxx is बस माना एक of अनेक क्रमांक ब्लॉक  served by the CLKEN Kentish Town exchange ; 4420770703xx is another .
metformin ( bp , सुनाया , ; originally बेची as glucophage ) is an मौखिक antidiabetic  drug in the biguanide class .
It is the first-line drug of choice for the treatment of type 2 diabetes , in particular , in  overweight और मोटे लोगों और those साथ सामान्य  kidney function .
Its use in gestational  मधुमेह रै महरूम सीमित by सुरक्षा  concerns .
It is also used in the treatment of polycystic ovary syndrome , and has been investigated  लिये अन्य रोगों जहाँ इंसुलिन प्रतिरोध may be  an important factor .
metformin works by suppressing ग्लूकोज  production by the liver .
Metformin is the only antidiabetic drug  कि रै महरूम conclusively दिखाया to prevent the cardiovascular  complications of diabetes .
It helps  reduce ldl कोलेस्ट्रॉल और triglyceride स्तर  , and is not associated with weight gain .
, metformin is one of only two oral antidiabetics in the World  स्वास्थ्य संगठन मॉडल सूची of अनिवार्य दवाइयाँ (  the other being glibenclamide ) .
When prescribed appropriately , metformin causes  few प्रतिकूल प्रभाव ( the सबसे आम is जठरांत्र परेशान ) और is संबद्ध साथ a  low risk of hypoglycemia .
Lactic acidosis ( a buildup of lactate in the blood ) can be a  गंभीर चिंता in overdose और जब it is विहित to लोगों साथ contraindications  , but otherwise , there is no significant risk .
पहला synthesized और मिला to reduce रक्त शुगर in the 1920s , metformin थी forgotten लिये the  next two decades as research shifted to insulin and other antidiabetic drugs .
Interest in metformin was rekindled  in the लेट 1940s बाद अनेक रिपोर्ट्स कि it could reduce रक्त शुगर स्तर in लोगों , और in 1957 , फ्रेंच चिकित्सक जां sterne  published the first clinical trial of metformin as a treatment for diabetes .
It was introduced to the United  किंगडम in 1958 , कनाडा in 1972 , और  the United States in 1995 .
Metformin is now believed to be the most widely prescribed antidiabetic drug in the world ; in the United  राज्य अलोन , अधिक than 48 लाख prescriptions यहूद भर in 2010 लिये इसके जेनेरिक formulations  .
The Mount Rushmore National Memorial is a sculpture carved into the granite face of  माउंट rushmore निकट keystone , दक्षिण डकोटा , in the संयुक्त  States .
Sculpted by Danish-American Gutzon Borglum and his son , Lincoln Borglum , Mount  rushmore सुविधाएँ sculptures of the heads of चार संयुक्त राज्य राष्ट्रपतियों : जार्ज वॉशिंगटन , थामस  Jefferson , Theodore Roosevelt and Abraham Lincoln .
The entire memorial  कवर और is ऊपर समुद्र स्तर  .
The tallest mountain in  the प्रदेश is harney शिखर  ( ) .
South Dakota historian  दोने रॉबिन्सन is credited साथ conceiving the विचार of नक्काशी the likenesses  of famous people into the Black Hills region of South Dakota in order to promote tourism in the region .
Robinson 's initial idea was to sculpt the Needles ; however , Gutzon Borglum rejected the Needles  साईट क्युकी of the ग़रीब विशेषता of the ग्रेनाइट और दमदार विपक्ष इससे पर्यावरणविद और देशी  American groups .
They settled on the Mount Rushmore location , which also has the advantage of facing  southeast लिये अधिकतम सूर्य एक्सपोज़र  .
रॉबिन्सन चाही it to विशेषता पश्चिमी नायक जैसे लुईस और क्लार्क , रेड बादल और भैंस विधेयक कोड़ी लकिन borglum decided the मूर्तिकला चाहिए  have a more national focus , and chose the four presidents whose likenesses would be carved into the mountain .
After securing  संघीय funding , निर्माण on the मेमोरियल began in 1927 , और the राष्ट्रपतियों  ' faces were completed between 1934 and 1939 .
Upon Gutzon  borglum 's मौत in कूच 1941 , उसके बेटे lincoln  Borglum took over construction .
Although the initial  अवधारणा पुकारा लिये प्रत्येक अध्यक्ष to be चित्रित इससे सिर to कमर , कमी of funding  forced construction to end in late October 1941 .
The U.S. National Park Service took control of the memorial in 1933 ,  जबकि it थी स्टिल अंतर्गत निर्माण , और रै प्रबंधित the  memorial to the present day .
It attracts  nearly तीन लाख लोगों  annually .
Charvet dress shirt  इससे the 1930s , norsk folkemuseum  , Oslo .
A shirt , dress shirt , button-front ,  button-front कमीज़ , or button-up कमीज़ is a परिधान साथ a कॉलर , a full-length खोलने at the सामने इससे the  collar to the hem , and sleeves with cuffs .
Shirts  हैं predominantly प्रयुक्त by मेन , चूंकि  women usually wear blouses .
The front opening is fastened using buttons or  studs , और the cuffs बंद साथ बटन or कफ  links .
Shirts are  सामान्यतः बना इससे woven cloth , और हैं प्रायः accompanied by a जैकेट और टाई , लिये उदाहरण साथ a सूट or formalwear  , but shirts are also worn more casually .
In British English ,  पोशाक कमीज़ अर्थात् specifically the अधिक औपचारिक संध्या परिधान worn साथ black-  or white- tie , also discussed below .
Some of these formal shirts have stiff fronts and  detachable छल्लों संलग्न साथ कॉलर  studs .
the पद `` button-down '' ( जिससे refers a प्रकार of कमीज़ जिससे रै a कॉलर fastened bas by बटन ) is sometimes प्रयुक्त  in error to apply to all shirts ( with or without buttoned down collars ) , being used as a synonym for `` button-up '' or `` button-front '' .
Administrative Professionals Day ( also known as  secretaries दिन or एडमिन दिन ) is an unofficial धर्मनिरपेक्ष अवकाश observed in अनेक देशों to recognize the कार्य of secretaries  , administrative assistants , receptionists , and other administrative support professionals .
In North America , it is celebrated on the Wednesday of  the पिछला पूरा सप्ताह of अप्रैल ( अप्रैल 24 in 2013  ) .
In  फ़्रांस it is मनाये on the तीसरा गुरुवार  in April ( April 18 in 2013 ) .
In Australia it is  मनाये on the पहला  Friday in May
धमाकेदार can  be:
Abrasive  धमाकेदार
Blast  भट्टी
चट्टान धमाकेदार
Nicolas Poussin ( ; 15 June 1594 – 19 November 1665 ) was the leading painter of the  शास्त्रीय फ्रेंच बरॉक स्टाइल , हालांकि he खर्च सबसे of उसके working जीवन  in Rome .
His work is  characterized by स्पष्टता , लॉजिक  , and order , and favors line over color .
Until the 20th century he remained a major inspiration  लिये ऐसे classically उन्मुख कलाकारों as jacques-louis दाउद , jean-auguste-dominique ingres और  Paul Cézanne .
He worked in Rome for a circle of leading collectors there and  elsewhere , मगर लिये a छोटी काल जब कार्डिनल रिचलू ordered उसे वापस to फ़्रांस to serve as पहला चित्रकार to the  King .
Most of his works are history paintings of religious  or पौराणिक विषय कि बहुत प्रायः have a विशाल लैंडस्केप  element .
Jackie Keith Whitley ( July 1 , 1954Stambler , Irwin , and Grelun Landon ( 2000 ) . - Country Music : The Encyclopedia . - New York : St. Martin 's Press . - p.533 . - ISBN 978-0-312-26487-1.—Carlin , Richard ( 2003 ) . - Country Music : A Biographical Dictionary . - New York : Routledge - p.427 . - ISBN 978-0-415-93802-0.—Larkin , Colin ( 1995 ) . - The Guinness Encyclopedia of Popular Music . - New York : Stockton Press - P.4462  . - isbn 978-0-85112-662-3.—stanton , स्कॉट ( 2003 ) . - the tombstone पर्यटक : संगीतकारों . - नई यॉर्क : जेब किताबे . - p.395 . - isbn 978-0-7434-6330-0.—hicks , जोकर . - `` सिंगर कैथ whitley 's मेमोरी जिंदा through गीतों , प्रेम in घर कस्बा '' . - the केंटकी पोस्ट . - सितंबर 25 , 1991.— '' देश म्यूज़िक स्टार कैथ whitley मुर्दे at 33 '' . - lexington herald-leader . - may 10 , 1989.——hurst , जोकर . - `` whitley 's पिछला दिनों '' . - शिकागो ट्रिब्यून . - may 14 , 1989.— '' दारू मारता देश सिंगर  Keith Whitley '' . - United Press International . - ( c/o The San Francisco Chronicle ) . - May 10 , 1989 . — May 9 , 1989 ) , known professionally as Keith Whitley , was an American country music singer .
Whitley 's brief career in mainstream country  म्यूज़िक lasted इससे 1984 जबतक उसके मौत in 1989 , लकिन he continues  to influence an entire generation of singers and songwriters .
He charted 19 singles on the Billboard country charts , including five consecutive  क्रमांक ones : `` do n't बंद अपना आँखें `` , `` जब तुम कह nothing at सब `` , `` i 'm no अजनबी to the बरसात ``  , `` I Wonder Do You Think of Me `` and `` It Ai n't Nothin ' `` ( the last two posthumously ) .
Statute of Grand  duchy of लिथुआनिया  , written in Polish
a statute is a औपचारिक लिखा enactment  of a legislative authority that governs a state , city , or county .
Typically , statutes command or  prohibit कुछ , or घोषित नीति  .
The word is often used to distinguish law made by legislative bodies from case  विधि , decided by न्यायालयों , और regulations जारी by सरकारी एजेंसियों  .
Statutes are sometimes referred to as  विधान or `` ब्लैक अक्षर  law . ''
As a source of law , statutes are considered primary  प्राधिकार ( as opposed to द्वितीयक प्राधिकार  ) .
ideally सब statutes जरूर be in सामंजस्य  with the fundamental law of the land ( constitutional ) .
This word is  प्रयुक्त in contradistinction to the  common law .
Statutes acquire their force from the time of their passage ,  however जबतक  otherwise provided .
Statutes are of several kinds ;  namely , पब्लिक or निजी .
declaratory or remedial  .
अस्थाई or perpetual  .
A temporary  statute is एक जिससे is सीमित in इसके अवधि  at the time of its enactment .
It continues in force until the time of its  limitation रै समाप्त , जबतक sooner repealed  .
A perpetual statute is  एक लिये the फिराकर of जिससे वहीँ is no  limited time , although it may not be expressly declared to be so .
If , however , a statute which did not itself contain any limitation is  to be governed by another जिससे is अस्थाई तभी , the पूर्व होगा भी be अस्थाई और निर्भर upon the अस्तित्व  of the latter .
Before a statute becomes law in some countries , it must be agreed upon by the highest  कार्यपालिका in the सरकारी , और आखिरकार प्रकाशित as भाग of a  code .
In many countries  , statutes हैं व्यवस्थित in topical इंतजाम ( or `` संहिताबद्ध '' ) भीतर  publications called codes , such as the United States Code .
In many nations statutory law is  विशिष्ट इससे और अधीनस्थ  to constitutional law .
The external iliac arteries are two major arteries which bifurcate off  the आम iliac धमनियों अग्रवर्ती to the  sacroiliac joint of the pelvis .
They proceed anterior and inferior  साथ the medial किनारा of the psoas प्रमुख  muscles .
They exit the pelvic girdle posterior and inferior to the  वंक्षण स्नायु परिचय एक तीसरा laterally इससे the प्रविष्ट पाइंट of the वंक्षण स्नायु on the जननांग  tubercle at which point they are referred to as the femoral arteries .
The external iliac artery is usually the artery used  to संलग्न the renal धमनी to the प्राप्तकर्ता of a गुर्दा प्रत्यारोपण  .
Steam is a digital distribution , digital rights management , multiplayer and  संचार मंच विकसित by वाल्व निगम  .
It is used to distribute  खेल और सम्बन्धित मीडिया ऑनलाइन , इससे छोटी स्वतंत्र  developers to larger software houses ; in October 2012 , Valve expanded the service to include non-gaming software .
Steam provides the user with installation and automatic management of  तन्त्र आरपार अनेक कंप्यूटर , जातियाँ सुविधाएँ ऐसे as मित्रों सूचियाँ और समूह , बादल छायांकन , और  in-game voice and chat functionality .
The software provides a freely available  अनुप्रयोग प्रोग्रामिंग इंटरफ़ेस , steamworks , कि डेवलपर can लो लाभ of to integrate अनेक of भाप 's कृत्यों भीतर उनके  software products , including copy protection , networking and matchmaking , in-game achievements and micro-transactions , and support for user-created content through Steam Workshop .
Though initially developed for use  on microsoft खिड़कियाँ , the क्लाएंट रै विस्तारित to शामिल os x और लिनक्स संस्करण , और क्लाइंट साथ सीमित कार्यक्षमता  on the PlayStation 3 console and for both iOS and Android mobile devices .
In addition to being a central hub for  गेमिंग तन्त्र , वाल्व रै निर्मित a संस्करण of भाप साथ altered कार्यक्षमता to be प्रयुक्त in स्कूलों  for educational software , including a modified version of Portal 2 for teaching science and critical thinking lessons .
, there are nearly 2000 games  उपलब्धियाँ through भाप , और 54 लाख क्रियाशील  user accounts .
As of  जनवरी 2013 , भाप रै देखी over 6.6 लाख संयुक्त  players .
Steam has an estimated 50–70 % share of the  डिजिटल वितरण मार्केट लिये  video games .
The Steam logo is a  stylised left-side fly-crank और लाठी इससे the walschaerts  valve gear of a steam locomotive .
Jerry Lewis ( born March 16 , 1926  ) is an अमरीकी हास्य , कर्ता , सिंगर ,  film producer , screenwriter and film director .
He is known for his  slapstick ह्यूमर in फिल्मी , टेलीविज़न , स्टेज  and radio .
He was originally paired up with Dean Martin in 1946  , forming the famed कॉमेडी टोली of  Martin and Lewis .
In addition to the  duo 's लोकप्रिय nightclub कार्य , वे स्ट्रक्चर in a  successful series of comedy films for Paramount Pictures .
Lewis is also known for his charity fund-raising  telethons और स्थिति as नेशनल अध्यक्ष लिये the muscular  Dystrophy Association ( MDA ) .
Lewis has won  अनेक पुरस्कार लिये आजीवन उपलब्धियाँ इससे the अमरीकी कॉमेडी पुरस्कार , लॉस एंजिल्स फिल्मी आलोचकों संघ , और वेनिस फिल्मी  Festival , and he has two stars on the Hollywood Walk of Fame .
In 2005 , he received the Governors Award of the Academy of  टेलीविज़न कला & sciences फलक of राज्यपालों , जिससे is the उच्चतम एमी पुरस्कार  presented .
On February 22 , 2009 , the Academy of Motion Picture Arts  और sciences awarded लुईस the जां hersholt humanitarian  Award .
The Rhine ( ; ; ) is a European river that runs from the Swiss  कैण्टन of grisons in the southeastern स्विस ऐल्प्स through जर्मनी और आखिरकार बहती into the उत्तर समुद्र coast in the नीदरलैंड्स और is the बारहवीं longest  river in Europe , at about , with an average discharge of more than .
The Rhine and the Danube formed most of  the उत्तरी अंतर्देशीय frontier of the रोमन साम्राज्य और , चूंकि those दिनों , the राइन रै महरूम a vital और  navigable waterway carrying trade and goods deep inland .
It has also served  as a रक्षात्मक विशेषता और रै महरूम  the basis for regional and international borders .
The many  castles और प्रागैतिहासिक fortifications साथ the  Rhine testify to its importance as a waterway .
River traffic could be stopped at  ये स्थितियाँ , प्रायः लिये the purpose of collecting  tolls , by the state that controlled that portion of the river .
श्री ( सिंहली  )
Sri ( Devanagari : श्री , IAST ; Śrī ) , also transliterated as Sree or Shri  or श्री is a शब्द of संस्कृत उत्पत्ति , प्रयुक्त in the भारतीय उपमहाद्वीप as विनम्र रूप of पता समतुल्य to the अंग्रेज़ी `` mr. '' in लिखा और बोला भाषा , or as  a title of veneration for deities ( usually translated as `` Holy '' ) .
Design of complex  structures जैसे the अंतरराष्ट्रीय स्पेस स्टेशन needs in-depth समझना  of Structural Analysis .
Civil engineering is a professional engineering discipline that deals with the design , construction , and  मेंटेनेंस of the शारीरिक और naturally निर्मित पर्यावरण , सहित works जैसे सड़कें , पुलों , नहरों  , dams , and buildings .
सिविल अभियान्त्रिकी is the oldest अभियान्त्रिकी अनुशासन  after military engineering , and it was defined to distinguish non-military engineering from military engineering .
It is traditionally broken into several sub-disciplines including environmental engineering , geotechnical engineering , geophysics , geodesy , control  अभियान्त्रिकी , संरचनात्मक अभियान्त्रिकी , biomechanics , nanotechnology , परिवहन अभियान्त्रिकी , धरती विज्ञान , वायुमंडलीय sciences , forensic अभियान्त्रिकी , नगरपालिका or शहरी अभियान्त्रिकी  , water resources engineering , materials engineering , coastal engineering , surveying , and construction engineering .
Civil engineering takes  प्लेस on सब स्तर : in the पब्लिक सेक्टर इससे नगरपालिका through to नेशनल सरकारें  , and in the private sector from individual homeowners through to international companies .
Katherine Dunham  in तीव्र revue
Katherine  dunham in स्टुडियो
Katherine Dunham in Tropical Review  तीव्र पुनर्विलोकन , मार्टिन  Beck Theatre
कैथरीन dunham  wearing dance costume
कैथरीन dunham  in Cumbia
Katherine Dunham ( June 22 , 1909 – May 21 , 2006 ) was an American dancer  , कोरियोग्राफर , लेखक , educator , और सोशल activist  .
Dunham had one of the most successful dance careers in American and  यूरोपीय थिएटर of the 20th सदी , और निर्देशित उसके अपना नृत्य कम्पनी लिये अनेक सालो  .
She  रै महरूम पुकारा the `` matriarch और  queen mother of black dance '' .
During her heyday in the 1940s and 1950s , Dunham was renowned throughout Europe and Latin America and was widely  लोकप्रिय in the संयुक्त राज्य , जहाँ the वॉशिंगटन पोस्ट पुकारा उसके `` नर्तकी कैथरीन  the Great '' .
For almost thirty years she maintained the Katherine  dunham नृत्य कम्पनी , the तभी self-supported अमरीकी ब्लैक नृत्य troupe at कि समय , और over उसके  long career she choreographed more than ninety individual dances .
Dunham was an innovator in  african-american आधुनिक नृत्य as खूब as a नेता in the फ़ील्ड of नृत्य मानवशास्त्र ,  or ethnochoreology .
Sphagnum is a genus of between 1510 and 3500 species of mosses , commonly  पुकारा peat मॉस due to इसके व्यापकता in गीला habitats जहाँ it contributes to the गठन of peat  bogs and mires .
Sphagnum accumulations can store water , since both living and dead plants can hold large quantities of water inside  उनके कोशिकाएं ; पौधे may थाम इससे 16-26 टाइम्स as much जल as उनके  dry weight depending on the species .
The empty cells help  retain जल in drier शर्तें  .
Hence , as sphagnum moss grows , it can  धीरे स्प्रेड into drier शर्तें , forming larger peatlands ,  both raised bogs and blanket bogs .
These peat accumulations then  provide आवास लिये a चौड़ी सरणी of peatland पौधे , सहित sedges और ericaceous shrubs , as  well as orchids and carnivorous plants .
Sphagnum and the  peat formed इससे it do नहीं क्षय readily क्युकी of the  phenolic compounds embedded in the moss 's cell walls .
In addition , bogs , like  सब वेटलैंड्स , develop अवायवीय मृदा शर्तें , जिससे produces धीमा अवायवीय  decay rather than aerobic microbial action .
Peat moss can also  acidify इसके परिवेश by लेने up cations , ऐसे as कैल्सियम  and magnesium , and releasing hydrogen ions .
Under the right conditions , peat can  accumulate to a गहराई of अनेक  meters .
Different species of Sphagnum have different  सहिष्णुता हद लिये बाढ़ और ph , so कोई एक peatland may have  a number of different Sphagnum species .
Individual peat moss plants consist of a main stem , with tightly arranged clusters of branch fascicles  प्रायः consisting of दो or तीन spreading शाखाओं और दो to चार फांसी शाखाओं  .
The top of  the संयंत्र , or capitulum , रै कॉम्पैक्ट  clusters of young branches .
Along the stem are scattered leaves of various shapes , named  स्टेम पत्ते ; the आकार varies according  to species .
The leaves consist  of दो kinds of कोशिकाएं ; छोटी , ग्रीन , जीना कोशिकाएं ( chlorophyllose  cells ) , and large , clear , structural , dead cells ( hyaline cells ) .
the latter have  the large water-holding capacity .
The earliest version of the Network Card , issued  हस्तचालित बल्कि than through an aptis यंत्र  .
The first APTIS  संस्करण of the संजाल कार्ड  .
This was used from the start of the APTIS era in 1986/1987 until well into the 1990s , as  स्टॉक्स था to be प्रयुक्त up despite the परिचय of the new-look orange-banded संस्करण in  1991 .
The introduction of the weekday minimum fare  कंडीशन in 2002 resulted in a नाबालिग बदलें : the रेड `` r '' shows कि  this is the `` Revised '' version of the railcard .
This version is still in  उपयोग as of  2007 .
The Network Railcard is a  छूट कार्ड introduced in 1986 by अंग्रेजों रेल , upon the सृष्टि of  their Network SouthEast area around London , England .
The card is intended to encourage leisure travel by rail  by offering छूट लिये वयस्कों और accompanying children  on a wide range of off-peak fares .
The range of discounts available  , और the दाम of the कार्ड , have varied चूंकि कि समय , लकिन the कार्ड रै  always been valid for a year 's unlimited use .
It can be purchased by any person aged 16 or over from any staffed National Rail station or  रेल नियुक्त सफर एजेंट , by completing an अनुप्रयोग रूप - no फ़ोटोग्राफ़िक  identification or other documentation is needed to buy or use the card .
It is one of a number of concessionary  किराया योजनाएं उपलब्धियाँ on the अंग्रेजों रेल प्रणाली  .
The United Nations ( UN ; French : Organisation des  राष्ट्र unies , onu ) is the संसार 's largest , foremost , और सबसे  prominent international organization .
The stated aims of the United Nations include promoting and facilitating cooperation in international law  , अंतरराष्ट्रीय सुरक्षा , आर्थिक विकास , सोशल प्रगति , इंसान अधिकारों , सिविल अधिकारों , सिविल लिबर्टीज  , political freedoms , democracy , and the achievement of lasting world peace .
The UN was founded  in 1945 बाद संसार युद्ध ii to बदलें the लीग of राष्ट्र , to रोकें युद्धों between  countries , and to provide a platform for dialogue .
It  contains अनेक subsidiary संगठन  to carry out its missions .
At its founding  , the un था 51 सदस्य राज्य ; as of 2011  , there are 193 .
From its offices around the world , the UN and its specialized agencies decide on substantive and  प्रशासनिक मुद्दे in नियमित बैठक आयोजित throughout  the year .
The organization has six principal organs : the General Assembly ( the main deliberative assembly ) ; the Security Council ( for deciding certain resolutions for peace and security ) ; the Economic and Social Council ( for assisting  in promoting अंतरराष्ट्रीय आर्थिक और सोशल सहयोग और विकास ) ; the सचिवालय ( लिये providing अध्ययन , सूचना , और सुविधाएं needed by the un ) ; the अंतरराष्ट्रीय अदालत of इंसाफ ( the प्राथमिक न्यायिक अंग ) ; और the  United Nations Trusteeship Council ( which is currently inactive ) .
Other prominent UN System agencies include the World Health Organization ( WHO ) , the  संसार खाना कार्यक्रम ( wfp ) और संयुक्त राष्ट्र  Children 's Fund ( UNICEF ) .
The UN 's most prominent position is that of the office  of secretary-general जिससे रै महरूम आयोजित by बैन ki-moon  of South Korea since 2007 .
The United Nations Headquarters resides in international territory in New York City ,  साथ further प्रमुख कार्यालयों at जेनेवा , नैरोबी ,  and Vienna .
The organization is financed from assessed and voluntary contributions from  इसके सदस्य राज्य , और रै छह आधिकारिक भाषाएं : अरबी , चाइनीज  , English , French , Russian , and Spanish .
South Beach , also nicknamed  sobe , is a पड़ोस in the नगर of मियामी बीच , फ्लोरिडा , संयुक्त  States , located due east of Miami city proper between Biscayne Bay and the Atlantic Ocean .
The area encompasses all of the barrier  आइलैंड्स of मियामी बीच दक्षिण of भारतीय क्रीक  .
This area was the first section of Miami Beach to be developed , starting in the 1910s , thanks to the development efforts of Carl G. Fisher , the Lummus Brothers , and John  S. कॉलिन्स , the latter जिनकी निर्माण of the कॉलिन्स सेतु provided the पहला vital जमीन कड़ी  between mainland Miami and the beaches .
The area has gone through numerous artificial and natural changes over the years , including a booming regional economy ,  increased पर्यटन , और the 1926 hurricane , जिससे नष्ट  much of the area .
as of 2010 , परिचय 39,186 निवासियों सजीव  in South Beach .
The United States presidential election of  1960 थी the 44th quadrennial अध्यक्षीय चुनाव , आयोजित on मंगलवार  , November 8 , 1960 .
The Republican Party  मनोनीत लाज़िम vice-president रिचर्ड निक्सन , जबकि the  Democratic Party nominated John F. Kennedy , Senator from Massachusetts .
The incumbent  अध्यक्ष , रिपब्लिकन ड्वाइट D. आइज़नहावर , थी नहीं योग्य लिये re-election  after serving the maximum two terms allowed by the Twenty-second Amendment .
Kennedy was elected with a lead  of 112,827 मत , or 0.17 % of the लोकप्रिय vote , giving उसे  a victory of 303 to 219 in the Electoral College , the closest since 1916 .
This was the first election in which all fifty of the current  संयुक्त राज्य participated  .
A number of factors  बताइये क्यों the चुनाव थी  so close .
Kennedy gained since there was an economic recession which hurt the incumbent  रिपब्लिकन , और he था the लाभ of 17 लाख अधिक पंजीकृत डेमोक्रेट than  Republicans .
Furthermore , the new votes that Kennedy  gained among catholics लगभग neutralized the नई मत निक्सन gained  among Protestants .
Kennedy 's campaigning skills  decisively outmatched निक्सन  's .
In the end , Nixon 's emphasis on his experience carried little weight , and he  wasted उर्जा by campaigning in सब 50 राज्य बजाय of concentrating  on the swing states .
Kennedy used his large , well-funded campaign organization to win the  नामांकन , सुरक्षित समर्थन , और , साथ the सहायता of the पिछला of the big-city  bosses , to get out the vote in the big cities .
He relied on running mate Lyndon B. Johnson  to थाम the दक्षिण और प्रयुक्त टेलीविज़न effectively  .
This election is  notable as होने the पहला समय in u.S. इतिहास कि दो बैठे u.s . सीनेटरों ( कैनेडी और जॉनसन ) यहूद निर्वाचित as अध्यक्ष और vice-president , a घटना  that has been repeated once , by Barack Obama and Joe Biden in 2008 ( in both cases , the president was the younger , more junior senator ) .
A poster for a  c. 1884 अमरीकी उत्पादन of मैकबेथ  , starring Thomas W. Keene .
Depicted , counter clockwise  इससे top-left , हैं : मैकबेथ और banquo मिलें the witches ; बस बाद the हत्या of डंकन ; banquo 's भुत ; मैकबेथ duels macduff ;  and Macbeth .
मैकबेथ is a खेल लिखा  by William Shakespeare .
It is considered one  of उसके darkest और सबसे  powerful tragedies .
Set in Scotland , the play  dramatizes the corroding मनोवैज्ञानिक और राजनैतिक प्रभाव उत्पादित जब  its protagonist , the Scottish lord Macbeth , chooses evil as the way to fulfill his ambition for power .
He commits regicide  to become किंग और तब furthers उसके moral descent साथ  a reign of murderous terror to stay in power , eventually plunging the country into civil war .
In the end , he  loses सबकुछ कि देता अर्थ और purpose to उसके  life before losing his life itself .
The play is believed to have been written  between 1603 और 1607 , और is  most commonly dated 1606 .
The earliest account of a  प्रदर्शन of कया थी संभवतः शेक्सपियर 's खेल is अप्रैल  1611 , when Simon Forman recorded seeing such a play at the Globe Theatre .
It was first published in the Folio  of 1623 , संभवतः इससे a संकेत  book .
It was most likely written during the reign of James I ,  जो था महरूम जेम्स vi of स्कॉटलैंड पहले he succeeded to the  English throne in 1603 .
James was a patron of Shakespeare’s acting company , and of all  the plays शेक्सपियर लिखा दौरान james’s शासनकाल , मैकबेथ सबसे clearly reflects the playwright’s  relationship with the sovereign .
Macbeth is Shakespeare’s shortest tragedy , and tells the story of a brave Scottish general named Macbeth who  receives a prophecy इससे a तिकड़ी of witches कि एक दिन  he will become King of Scotland .
Consumed by  महत्वाकांक्षा और spurred to कार्रवाई by उसके बीवी , मैकबेथ हत्याएं किंग डंकन  and takes the throne for himself .
His reign is racked with guilt and paranoia , and he soon becomes a tyrannical ruler as he is forced to commit more and more murders  to protect खुद इससे enmity और suspicion  .
The bloodbath swiftly takes Macbeth and Lady Macbeth into  realms of arrogance , दीवानगी , और  death .
शेक्सपियर 's सोर्स लिये the त्रासदी is the खाता of किंग मैकबेथ of स्कॉटलैंड , macduff , और डंकन in holinshed 's क्रॉनिकल्स ( 1587 ) , a इतिहास of इंग्लैण्ड  , Scotland and Ireland familiar to Shakespeare and his contemporaries , although the events in the play differ extensively from the history of the real Macbeth .
In the backstage world of theatre , some believe that the play is cursed , and will not mention its title  aloud , referring to it बजाय as `` the स्कॉटिश खेल ``  .
Over the course of many centuries , the play has attracted some of the  सबसे प्रसिद्ध अभिनेताओं to the भूमिकाएँ of मैकबेथ और महिला  Macbeth .
It has been adapted to film ,  टेलीविज़न , ओपेरा , novels , कॉमिक  books , and other media .
The Milton  hershey स्कूल is a निजी परोपकारी ( pre-k  through 12 ) boarding school in Hershey , Pennsylvania .
Originally named the Hershey Industrial School , the institution was founded and funded by chocolate  उद्योगपति मिल्टन snavely hershey और उसके बीवी  , Catherine Sweeney Hershey .
The school was originally established for impoverished , healthy , Caucasian ,  पुरूष अनाथ , जबकि आज it serves विद्यार्थी of विभिन्न पृष्ठभूमि  .
The Milton Hershey School Trust , which funds the school , owns controlling interest in The  hershey कम्पनी और owns the hershey entertainment और रिसॉर्ट कम्पनी ( herco ) जिससे oversees अनेक of the क्षेत्रफल  hotels along with a theme park called Hersheypark .
With over six billion dollars in  एसेट , the मिल्टन hershey स्कूल is एक of the wealthiest  schools in the world .
The school is overseen by a  फलक of प्रबंधक  .
The school currently serves 1,818  विद्यार्थी , और योजनाएँ to grow to 2,100 विद्यार्थी by 2013  .
A member of CORE : Coalition  लिये आवासीय शिक्षा , it is the largest  residential education program in the US .
Epub may  refer to:
EPUB , a free  और खोलें e-book  standard
Electronic article , articles in  scholarly जर्नल्स or मैगज़ीन कि can be पहुँचा  via electronic transmission
The Controlled Substances Act ( CSA ) was enacted into law by the Congress of  the संयुक्त राज्य as शीर्षक ii of the व्यापक ड्रग गाली रोकथाम  and Control Act of 1970 .
The CSA is the federal U.S. drug policy under which  the manufacture , importation , कब्ज़ा , उपयोग और वितरण  of certain substances is regulated .
The Act also  परोसा as the नेशनल implementing विधान  for the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs .
The legislation  निर्मित पाँच schedules ( classifications ) , साथ varying योग्यता  for a substance to be included in each .
Two federal agencies , the Drug Enforcement Administration and the Food and Drug Administration , determine which substances are added to or removed from the  विभिन्न schedules , हालांकि the statute passed by कॉंग्रेस निर्मित the आरंभिक लिस्टिंग , और कॉंग्रेस रै sometimes अनुसूचित अन्य substances through विधान ऐसे as the hillory J. farias और सामन्था reid date-rape रोकथाम अधिनियम of 2000 , जिससे  placed gamma hydroxybutyrate in Schedule I . Classification decisions are required to be made on criteria including potential for abuse ( an undefined term ) , currently accepted medical use in treatment in the United States , and international treaties .
second-language अधिग्रहण or second-language सीखना  is the process by which people learn a second language .
second-language अधिग्रहण ( प्रायः abbreviated to sla ) भी  refers to the scientific discipline devoted to studying that process .
Second language refers to any  भाषा सीखे in जोड to a व्यक्ति 's पहला भाषा ; हालांकि the अवधारणा is नामित second-language  acquisition , it can also incorporate the learning of third , fourth , or subsequent languages .
second-language अधिग्रहण  refers to what learners do ; it does not refer to practices in language teaching .
The academic discipline of  second-language अधिग्रहण is a subdiscipline of  applied linguistics .
It is  broad-based और अपेक्षाकृत नई  .
As well as the various branches of linguistics , second-language  अधिग्रहण is भी closely सम्बन्धित to मनोविज्ञान , संज्ञानात्मक मनोविज्ञान , और शिक्षा  .
To separate the academic discipline from the learning process  itself , the शर्तें second-language अधिग्रहण शोध , second-language अध्ययन , और second-language  acquisition studies are also used .
SLA research began as an interdisciplinary field , and because  of इस it is मुश्किल to पहचानो a precise starting  date .
However , it does appear  to have विकसित a ग्रेट सौदे चूंकि  the mid-1960s .
The term acquisition was  originally प्रयुक्त to emphasize the अवचेतन प्रकृति of the सीखना प्रक्रम , लकिन in हाल सालो सीखना  and acquisition have become largely synonymous .
Second-language acquisition can incorporate heritage language learning ,  लकिन it करता नहीं प्रायः चरितार्थ  bilingualism .
Most SLA researchers see bilingualism as being the end result of learning a language ,  नहीं the प्रक्रम itself , और देखिए the पद as referring to native-like  fluency .
Writers in fields such as education and psychology , however ,  प्रायः उपयोग bilingualism loosely to refer to सब फ़ॉर्म of बहुभाषिकता  .
Second-language acquisition is also not to be contrasted with the acquisition of a foreign  भाषा ; बल्कि , the सीखना of दूसरी भाषाएं और the सीखना of विदेशी भाषाएं involve the वही आधारभूत  processes in different situations..
There  रै महरूम much बहस परिचय exactly कैसा  language is learned , and many issues are still unresolved .
वहीँ हैं अनेक theories of second-language अधिग्रहण , लकिन none हैं स्वीकृत  as a complete explanation by all SLA researchers .
Due to the interdisciplinary  प्रकृति of the फ़ील्ड of second-language अधिग्रहण ,  this is not expected to happen in the foreseeable future .
फोर्ब्स सूची of अरबपतियों is an सालाना रैंकिंग of the संसार 's  wealthiest people , compiled and published by Forbes , an American national business magazine .
The total net worth of each individual on the list is  अनुमानित , in संयुक्त राज्य डॉलर , आधारित on उनके एसेट और  accounting for debt .
The list only represents each person 's  valuation on a सिंगल दिन , due to रोज़ fluctuations among  exchange rates and stock valuations .
The United States Secret Service is a U.S. federal  विधि प्रवर्तन एजेंसी कि is भाग of the संयुक्त राज्य  Department of Homeland Security .
The  sworn सदस्यों हैं विभाजित among the खास एजेंटों  and the Uniformed Division .
Until March 1 , 2003 , the Service was part of  the संयुक्त राज्य विभाग of the  Treasury .
The U.S. Secret Service has two  पृथक क्षेत्रों of responsibility:
Financial Crimes , covering missions such as prevention and  छानबीन of counterfeiting of u.S. करेंसी और u.S. राजकोष प्रतिभूति , और छानबीन of प्रमुख धोखाधड़ी  .
Protection , which entails ensuring the safety of  वर्तमान और पूर्व नेशनल नेताओ और उनके परिवारों , ऐसे as the अध्यक्ष , पास्ट राष्ट्रपतियों , वाइस राष्ट्रपतियों , अध्यक्षीय उम्मीदवार , visiting heads of राज्य  , and foreign embassies ( per an agreement with the U.S. State Department 's Bureau of Diplomatic Security ( DS ) Office of Foreign Missions ( OFM ) , etc . )
The Secret Service 's initial  जिम्मेदारी थी to investigate counterfeiting of u.S. करेंसी  , which was rampant following the U.S. Civil War .
the एजेंसी तब विकसित into the संयुक्त  States ' first domestic intelligence and counterintelligence agency .
Many of the agency 's missions were later taken over  by subsequent एजेंसियों ऐसे as the संघीय ब्यूरो of छानबीन ( एफबीआई ) , ब्यूरो of दारू , तम्बाकू , firearms और विस्फोटक ( atf ) , आव्रजन  and Customs Enforcement ( ICE ) , and Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ) .
`` Me and Bobby McGee '' is a song written by Kris Kristofferson  और फ्रेड फोस्टर , originally performed by रोजर मिलर  .
Others performed the  सोंग बाद , सहित kristofferson खुद , और janis joplin जो अव्वल the u.S. singles चार्ट साथ the सोंग in 1971 बाद उसके मौत , बनाना the सोंग the दूसरी  posthumous number-one single in U.S. chart history after `` ( Sittin ' On ) The Dock of the Bay `` by Otis Redding .
Franklin Delano Roosevelt ( or ; January 30 , 1882 – April 12 , 1945 ) , also known by his  आद्याक्षर , fdr , थी the 32nd अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य ( 1933–1945 ) और a सेंट्रल फिगर in संसार कार्यक्रम दौरान the mid-20th सदी  , leading the United States during a time of worldwide economic depression and total war .
A  प्रबल नेता of the लोकतांत्रिक पार्टी और the तभी अमरीकी अध्यक्ष निर्वाचित to अधिक than दो शर्तें , he निर्मित a नई सौदे गठबन्धन कि realigned अमरीकी  politics after 1932 , as his domestic policies defined American liberalism for the middle third of the 20th century .
With the bouncy popular song `` Happy Days Are  यहाँ again `` as उसके अभियान थीम , fdr पराजित लाज़िम रिपब्लिकन  Herbert Hoover in November 1932 , at the depth of the Great Depression .
Energized by his personal victory over polio , FDR  's unfailing  optimism and activism contributed to a renewal of the national spirit .
He worked closely with British Prime Minister Winston Churchill and Soviet General Secretary  जोसेफ स्टालिन in अग्रणी the allies विरूद्ध जर्मनी और जापानी in संसार युद्ध ii , और restoring समृद्धि  to the nation 's economy .
In his first hundred days in office , which began March 4 , 1933 , Roosevelt spearheaded major legislation and issued a profusion of executive orders that instituted the New Deal —a variety of programs designed to produce  राहत ( सरकारी कार्य लिये the बेरोजगार ) , रिकवरी ( आर्थिक विकास ) , और सुधार ( through विनियमन of वॉल गली , बैंको और परिवहन  ) .
The  अर्थव्यवस्था improved rapidly इससे 1933 to 1937 , लकिन तब  relapsed into a deep recession .
The bipartisan Conservative Coalition that formed in 1937 prevented his packing the Supreme Court or  गुजर कोई considerable विधान ; it abolished अनेक of the राहत कार्यक्रम जब  unemployment diminished during World War II .
सबसे of the regulations on कारोबार यहूद ended परिचय 1975–85 , मगर  for the regulation of Wall Street by the Securities and Exchange Commission , which still exists .
Along with several smaller programs , major surviving programs include the Federal Deposit Insurance  निगम , जिससे थी निर्मित in 1933 , और सोशल सुरक्षा  , which Congress passed in 1935 .
As World War II loomed after 1938 , with the Japanese invasion of  चीन और the आक्रामकता of नाजी जर्मनी , fdr दिया दमदार राजनयिक  and financial support to China and Great Britain , while remaining officially neutral .
His goal was to make America the ``  आर्सेनल of लोकतंत्र `` जिससे होता सप्लाई munitions  to the Allies .
In March 1941 ,  रूज़वेल्ट , साथ congressional स्वीकृति , provided lend-lease  aid to the countries fighting against Nazi Germany with Britain .
With very  दमदार नेशनल support , he बना युद्ध on जापानी और जर्मनी बाद the जापानी आक्रमण on पर्ल हार्बर  on December 7 , 1941 , calling it a `` date which will live in infamy `` .
He supervised the mobilization of the  u.S. अर्थव्यवस्था to support the अलाइड  war effort .
As an  क्रियाशील सैन्य नेता , रूज़वेल्ट implemented an overall युद्ध रणनीति on  two fronts that ended in the defeat of the Axis Powers and the development of the world 's first atom bomb .
In 1942 Roosevelt ordered the  internment of 100,000 जापानी अमरीकी  civilians .
Unemployment dropped to 2 % , relief programs largely ended , and the industrial economy grew rapidly  to नई हाइट्स as लाखो of लोगों स्थानांतरित to नई कार्य in युद्ध centers , और 16 लाख मेन और 300,000 महिलाओं यहूद  drafted or volunteered for military service .
Roosevelt dominated the American  राजनैतिक झाँकी नहीं तभी दौरान the बारह सालो of उसके प्रेसिडेंसी  , but also for decades afterward .
He orchestrated the realignment of  मतदाता कि निर्मित the पांचवां पार्टी प्रणाली  .
FDR  's नई सौदे गठबन्धन संयुक्त मजदूर संघ , बिग नगर मशीने  , white ethnics , African Americans and rural white Southerners .
He also  बहकावे the बाद सृष्टि  of the United Nations and Bretton Woods .
Roosevelt is consistently rated by scholars as one of the top three U.S. Presidents ,  साथ साथ अब्राहम lincoln और जार्ज वॉशिंगटन  .
A  उदार डेमोक्रेट , रूज़वेल्ट पारिभाषित उसके वैचारिक  position as `` a little left of center . ''
Mara Salvatrucha ( commonly abbreviated as MS ,  मारा , और ms-13 ) is a transnational दण्ड गिरोह कि originated in लॉस एंजिल्स और रै स्प्रेड to अन्य  parts of the United States , Canada , Mexico , and Central America .
The majority of the gang is  ethnically रचित of सेंट्रल अमेरिकी  and active in urban and suburban areas .
In the U.S. , the MS-13 has an especially heavy presence in Los Angeles County and the San Francisco Bay Area in  उत्तरी कैलिफ़ोर्निया ; the वॉशिंगटन , d.C. महानगर क्षेत्रों of फेयरफैक्स काउंटी , वर्जिनिया ,  Montgomery County , Maryland , and Prince George 's County , Maryland ; Long Island , New York ; the Boston , Massachusetts area ; Charlotte , North Carolina ; and Houston , Texas .
There  is भी a उपस्थिति of  MS-13 in Toronto , Ontario , Canada .
Members of MS distinguish  themselves by टैटू covering the देह और भी प्रायः the  face , as well as the use of their own sign language .
They are notorious for their use of violence and a subcultural moral code that  predominantly consists of merciless बदला और बेदर्द retributions  .
This cruelty of the distinguished members of the `` Maras '' or `` Mareros '' earned them a path to be recruited by the  sinaloa कार्टेल battling विरूद्ध लॉस zetas in an जारी ड्रग युद्ध दक्षिण of the संयुक्त  States border .
Their wide-ranging activities have drawn the attention of the FBI and  आव्रजन और कस्टम प्रवर्तन , जो have initiated wide-scale छापे विरूद्ध ज्ञात और  suspected gang members – netting hundreds of arrests across the country .
हड्डियों is an अमरीकी अपराधों comedy-drama टेलीविज़न श्रेणी कि  premiered on the Fox network in the United States on September 13 , 2005 .
The show is based on forensic anthropology and forensic archaeology , with each episode focusing on an FBI case file  concerning the रहस्य पीछे इंसान remains brought by एफबीआई खास एजेंट seeley बूथ ( दाउद boreanaz ) to the forensic  anthropologist Dr. Temperance `` Bones '' Brennan ( Emily Deschanel ) .
The rest of the  प्रमुख डाल शामिल michaela conlin , T. J. thyne , eric millegan , tamara  Taylor , Jonathan Adams , and John Francis Daley .
Created by Hart Hanson , the series is very  loosely आधारित on the जीवन और कृतियाँ of उपन्यासकार और forensic anthropologist कैथी reichs , जो भी produces  the show .
Its title  अक्षर , temperance ब्रेनन , is नामित बाद the समर्थक  of Reichs ' crime novel series .
Conversely , Dr. Brennan writes successful mystery novels  आधारित around a fictional ( in the हड्डियों ब्रह्मांड ) forensic anthropologist नामित  Kathy Reichs .
Bones is a  संयुक्त उत्पादन by जोसेफसन entertainment , दूर  Field Productions and 20th Century Fox Television .
The series has completed airing its  आठवीं ऋतु और रै महरूम नवीनीकृत  for a ninth season .
Super Bowl XXV was an American football  खेल between the अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल सम्मेलन ( afc ) चैंपियन भैंस  Bills and the National Football Conference ( NFC ) champion New York Giants to decide the National Football League ( NFL ) champion for the 1990 season .
The Giants  पराजित the बिल्स by the स्कोर  of 20–19 , winning their second ever Super Bowl .
it is the तभी सुपर कटोरी  decided by one point .
The game was held at Tampa Stadium in Tampa , Florida , on  जनवरी 27 , 1991 , दौरान the ऊँचाई  of the Gulf War .
It  थी यूँ निभाई अंतर्गत much  patriotic fervor .
The proceedings included a rousing rendition of `` The  star-spangled ध्वज `` by व्हिटनी ह्यूस्टन  during the pregame ceremonies .
The Bills and their explosive no-huddle offense were making their first Super Bowl appearance after  finishing the नियमित ऋतु साथ a 13-3 रिकार्ड , और अग्रणी the लीग  in total points scored with 428 .
In advancing to their second Super Bowl , the Giants also posted a 13-3  नियमित ऋतु रिकार्ड , लकिन साथ a ball-control ठोकर और a रक्षा कि अनुमत a लीग कम 211  points .
The game is  बेहतरीन remembered लिये बिल्स placekicker स्कॉट नॉर्वुड 's last-second फ़ील्ड लक्ष्य attempt  which went wide right of the uprights , leading to a Giants victory , and starting a four-game losing streak in the Super Bowl for the Bills .
The Giants  नियत a सुपर कटोरी रिकार्ड पकड़कर कब्ज़ा  of the ball for 40 minutes and 33 seconds .
New York also overcame a 12-3 second-quarter  deficit , और बना a 75-yard touchdown ड्राइव कि खपत a सुपर  Bowl record 9:29 off the clock .
Giants running  वापस ottis एंडरसन , जो carried the बॉल 21  times for 102 yards and one touchdown , was named Super Bowl MVP .
He was the first  awardee to प्राप्त the newly नामित `` पीट  Rozelle Trophy '' ( named for the former commissioner ) .
Anderson also recorded  एक रिसेप्शन लिये  seven yards .
Malcolm X ( ; May 19 , 1925February 21 , 1965 ) , born Malcolm Little  और भी ज्ञात as el-hajj malik el-shabazz  ( ) , was an African-American Muslim minister and human rights activist .
To his admirers , he was a courageous advocate for the rights of blacks , a man  जो indicted श्वेत अमेरिका in the harshest शर्तें लिये इसके अपराधों विरूद्ध ब्लैक अमेरिकी  .
Detractors accused  उसे of उपदेश जातिवाद , ब्लैक  supremacy , and violence .
He has been called  एक of the महानतम और सबसे influential अफ़्रीकी  Americans in history .
Malcolm X 's father  died—killed by श्वेत supremacists , it थी rumored—when he थी यंग , और at तनिक  one of his uncles was lynched .
When he was 13 , his mother was  लगाई in a दिमागी हॉस्पिटल , और he थी  placed in a series of foster homes .
In 1946 , at age 20 ,  he गई to थाना लिये तोड़कर  and entering .
In prison , Malcolm X  became a सदस्य of the स्वदेश of islam ; बाद उसके पैरोल in 1952 , he जल्दी रोज़  to become one of its leaders .
For a dozen years , Malcolm X was the public  फेस of the विवादास्पद समूह , लकिन मोहभंग साथ स्वदेश of islam सिर इलियास मुहम्मद led उसे to छोड़ the स्वदेश  in March 1964 .
After a period of travel in Africa and the Middle East , he returned to the United States ,  जहाँ he संस्थापित मुस्लिम मस्जिदे , inc. और the संगठन of afro-american  Unity .
In February 1965 , less than a year after leaving  the स्वदेश of islam , he थी assassinated  by three members of the group .
Malcolm X 's expressed  मान्यताओं बदला substantially over  time .
As a spokesman for the Nation of Islam he taught  ब्लैक सर्वोच्चता और advocated विरह of ब्लैक और श्वेत अमेरिकी —in कंट्रास्ट to the  civil rights movement 's emphasis on integration .
After breaking with the Nation of Islam in  1964—saying of उसके संघ साथ it , `` i किया अनेक बाते as a [ ब्लैक ] मुस्लिम कि  I 'm sorry for now .
i थी a प्रेत तब ... pointed in a निश्चित दिशा और बताई to कूच '' —and बनने a सुन्नी मुस्लिम  , he disavowed racism and expressed willingness to work with civil rights leaders , he continued to emphasize Pan-Africanism , black self-determination , and self-defense .
The third season of 90210 , an  अमरीकी टेलीविज़न श्रेणी , premiered on सोमवार सितंबर 13 , 2010  .
The CW  officially नवीनीकृत the दिखाएँ लिये a तीसरा ऋतु on फ़रवरी 16 , 2010  .
With the reveal of the networks fall 2010 schedule , they announced their decision to  मूव 90210 to सोमवार नाइट्स at 8:00 pm , as  a lead-in to Gossip Girl .
It  premiered on सितंबर 13 , 2010 और थी मिले साथ generally धनात्मक  reviews from critics .
The season picks up at the end of  गर्मियाँ और focuses on the विद्यार्थी  senior year of high school .
It follows Adrianna 's rise to  कीर्ति , a नई संबंध between चांदी और navid और a उलझन टेडी जो decides to खुलासा to उसके  family and friends he is gay .
It also deals with the  aftermath of नाओमी क्लार्क 's उत्पीड़न  .
Regular cast members for the season included Shenae Grimes  , ट्रिस्टन wilds , annalynne mccord , रयान eggold , जेसिका stroup , माइकल steger , जेसिका  Lowndes , Matt Lanter , Gillian Zinser , Trevor Donovan and Lori Loughlin .
Rebecca Sinclair continued her role as  कार्यपालिका निर्माता लिये the ऋतु .
The season premiered to 1.96  लाख दर्शक और a 0.9 दरजा in the  adults 18–49 demographic .
Christmas-themed episode `` Holiday Madness '' , hit season highs  in सब कुंजी demos साथ 2.1 in the cw 's निशाना डेमो of महिलाओं  18–34 , a 1.4 in adults 18–34 and a 1.1 in adults 18–49 .
It was  भी the सबसे देखी एपीसोड in over  a year with 2.2 million viewers tuning in .
The season finale  aired on may 16 , 2011 .
The  ऋतु averaged 1.75 लाख  live viewers and a 0.9 adults 18–49 rating .
it थी released on dvd in the  United States on August 30 , 2011 .
Elizabeth II  ( एलिज़ाबेथ एलेक्जेंड्रा मरियम ; born 21 अप्रैल 1926 ) is the संवैधानिक monarch of 16 sovereign राज्य  , known as the Commonwealth realms , and their territories and dependencies , and head of the 54-member Commonwealth of Nations .
She is Supreme Governor of the Church of England and , in some  of उसके realms , carries the शीर्षक of defender of the आस्था as भाग of  her full title .
On her accession on 6 February 1952 , Elizabeth became Head of the  राष्ट्रमंडल और महारानी regnant of सात स्वतंत्र राष्ट्रमंडल देशों : the संयुक्त किंगडम , कनाडा , ऑस्ट्रेलिया , नई जीलैंड , दक्षिण  Africa , Pakistan and Ceylon .
From  1956 to 1992 , the क्रमांक of उसके realms varied  as territories gained independence and some realms became republics .
At present , in addition to the first four  aforementioned देशों , एलिज़ाबेथ is महारानी of जमैका , बारबाडोस , the बहामा , हरा ,  Papua New Guinea , the Solomon Islands , Tuvalu , Saint Lucia , Saint Vincent and the Grenadines , Belize , Antigua and Barbuda and Saint Kitts and Nevis .
Her  शासनकाल of सालो is फिलहाल the दूसरी longest लिये a अंग्रेजों monarch  ; only Queen Victoria has reigned longer at over 63 years .
Elizabeth  थी born in लंदन और शिक्षित  privately at home .
Her father acceded to the  सिंहासन as जार्ज vi in 1936 on the abdication of उसके bhai एडवर्ड viii , इससे जिससे समय वो  was the heir presumptive .
She began to undertake public duties  दौरान the दूसरी संसार युद्ध , in जिससे वो परोसा in the  Auxiliary Territorial Service .
In 1947 ,  वो शादीशुदा प्रिंस फिलिप ,  Duke of Edinburgh , with whom she has four children : Charles , Anne , Andrew , and Edward .
Her coronation service took place in 1953 and was  the पहला to be televised  .
The Queen 's many  ऐतिहासिक विज़िट और बैठक शामिल a राज्य विज़िट  to the Republic of Ireland and reciprocal visits to and from the Pope .
The Queen has seen major constitutional changes in her realms , such as  devolution in the संयुक्त किंगडम और the patriation of the कनाडाई संविधान  .
Times of personal  significance have शामिल the births और विवाह of उसके children , the births of उसके grandchildren , the प्रतिष्ठापन of the प्रिंस of वेल्स  , and the celebration of milestones such as her Silver , Golden , and Diamond Jubilees in 1977 , 2002 , and 2012 , respectively .
Major  कार्यक्रम in the महारानी 's शासनकाल have शामिल the  Troubles in Northern Ireland , the Falklands War , wars with Iraq and the War in Afghanistan .
There have been  टाइम्स of निजी विषाद लिये उसके जिससे शामिल the मौत of उसके पिता at 56 , the हत्या of प्रिंस फिलिप 's ताऊ , रब माउंटबेटन , the विश्लेषण of उसके children 's विवाह in 1992 ( a साल deemed उसके annus horribilis  ) , the death in 1997 of her former daughter-in-law , Diana , Princess of Wales , and the deaths of her mother and sister in 2002 .
the महारानी रै occasionally  faced severe press criticism of the royal family and republican sentiments , but support for the monarchy and her personal popularity remain high .
The 2010 United States Senate election in Florida took place on November 2 , 2010 along with other elections to  the संयुक्त राज्य सीनेट in अन्य राज्य as खूब as सब चुनावों to the संयुक्त राज्य हाउस of प्रतिनिधि  and various state and local elections .
Republican Marco Rubio , former Speaker of the Florida House of Representatives ,  पराजित स्वतंत्र चार्ली crist और डेमोक्रेट kendrick नम्र in a three-way रेस .
One term Senator Mel Martinez was elected  in a बहुत बंद रेस विरूद्ध डेमोक्रेट बेट्टी  Castor in 2004 with 49 % of the vote .
Martinez announced on December 2 , 2008 that he would not seek  re-election to the सीनेट , और होता इस्तीफा prior to the समाप्त of उसके  term .
In August 2009 ,  राज्यपाल चार्ली crist घोषित कि he होता नियुक्त उसके पूर्व मुख्य  of Staff , George LeMieux , a Republican , to the Senate seat being vacated by Martinez .
Governor Crist publicly announced he was  कार्यशील लिये the सीट in mid-2009 .
At the time he received many Republican endorsements , such as  the नेशनल रिपब्लिकन senatorial कमेटी , मार्टिनेज , और the 2008 रिपब्लिकन अध्यक्षीय  nominee John McCain .
His support of the American  रिकवरी और reinvestment अधिनियम of 2009 ठेस उसके लोकप्रियता among conservatives  , and candidate Marco Rubio surged .
In April 2010 Crist announced  he होता बूँद आउट of the रिपब्लिकन प्राथमिक  and run as an independent .
The  नेशनल रिपब्लिकन senatorial कमेटी withdrew इसके समर्थन of crist और मांगे a refund of इसके अभियान  funds that it provided for the Crist campaign .
कांग्रेसी kendrick नम्र थी the पहला  Democrat to declare his intention to run .
Alexander Snitker was  the पहला सदस्य of the libertarian पार्टी on the  ballot for senator in Florida 's history .
उपग्रह दृश्य of  Doha
दोहा ( , ' or ' , वस्तुतः : `` the बिग पेड़ '' ) is the पूंजी  city of the state of Qatar .
Located on the coast of  the पारसी गल्फ  ,
it had a population of 998,651 in 2008 , and is  भी एक of the municipalities  of Qatar .
Doha is Qatar 's largest city , with over 60 % of the nation 's population  residing in दोहा or इसके surrounding उपनगरों , और is भी the आर्थिक  centre of the country .
Doha also serves as the seat of  सरकारी of क़तर , जिससे is शासित by शेख़ हमद  bin Khalifa Al Thani .
Doha  is घर to the शिक्षा नगर , an  area devoted to research and education .
Doha was the site of the first ministerial-level meeting of the  दोहा विकास गोलाकार of संसार व्यापार संगठन  negotiations .
The  नगर of दोहा आयोजित the 2006  Asian Games , which was the largest Asian Games ever held .
Doha also hosted the 2011 Pan  अरब खेल और सबसे of the  games at the 2011 AFC Asian Cup .
Doha hosted the UNFCCC Climate Negotiations ( COP 18 ) December 2012  और होगा मेजबान a विशाल क्रमांक of the venues लिये the 2022 फीफा संसार  Cup .
The World Petroleum Council held the 20th  संसार पेट्रोलियम सम्मेलन  in Doha in December 2011 .
paranasal साइनस हैं a समूह of चार युग्म air-filled स्पेसेस कि घेर the nasal गुहा ( ऊर्ध्वहनु साइनस  ) , above the eyes ( frontal sinuses ) , between the eyes ( ethmoid sinuses ) , and behind the ethmoids ( sphenoid sinuses ) .
The sinuses are  नामित लिये the फेशियल हड्डियों  in which they are located .
Lean manufacturing , lean enterprise , or lean production , often simply , `` Lean , '' is a production  अभ्यास कि considers the व्यय of संसाधन लिये कोई  goal other than the creation of value for the end customer to be wasteful , and thus a target for elimination .
Working  इससे the परिप्रेक्ष्य of the ग्राहक जो consumes a उत्पाद or  service , `` value '' is defined as any action or process that a customer would be willing to pay for .
Essentially , lean is centered on  preserving मान साथ कम कार्य .
Lean manufacturing  is a प्रबन्धन दर्शनशास्त्र निकला ज़्यादातर इससे the टोयोटा उत्पादन  System ( TPS ) ( hence the term Toyotism is also prevalent ) and identified as `` Lean '' only in the 1990s .
TPS is renowned for its focus on reduction of the original  टोयोटा सात wastes to improve overall ग्राहक मान , लकिन वहीँ  are varying perspectives on how this is best achieved .
The steady growth of Toyota , from a small company to  the संसार 's largest automaker , रै केन्द्रित ध्यान on कैसा it रै हासिल इस  success .
iCarly  लोगो
iCarly is an  अमरीकी sitcom कि airs on निकलोडियन  , which premiered on September 8 , 2007 .
Nickelodeon promoted many  एपीसोड so दूर ऐसे as `` ido '' , `` ihire an idiot '' , `` ipity the nevel '' , `` idate sam & फ्रेडी '' , इत्यादि .  as specials , despite their being regular episodes .
Every episode title begins  साथ a निम्नतर मामला i जिससे represents  the internet , as in `` iCarly '' .
The show was  मनोनीत लिये an एमी पुरस्कार  for Outstanding Children 's Program in 2009 .
The series starring Miranda Cosgrove as Carly  शे , a 13-year-old जो becomes an अंतरजाल  star .
The  श्रेणी ended on नवम्बर 23 , 2012  with the one-hour special episode `` iGoodbye '' .
A total of 7  सीज़न और 109 एपीसोड  were broadcast .
The largest audience of the series was 11.2 million viewers , with the  खास एपीसोड `` isaved अपना जीवन '' premiered in जनवरी 2010 .
When Carly ( Miranda Cosgrove ) and her sassy best friend Sam ( Jennette McCurdy ) act funny at a school talent show audition  , tech-savvy फ्रेडी ( नाथन kress ) टेपों it और पोस्ट it ऑनलाइन बगैर telling उन्हें  .
After seeing the girls ' strong chemistry and banter , the  ऑनलाइन दर्शक clamors लिये अधिक और the icarly वेबकास्ट  is born .
While grappling with typical issues of adolescence , Carly , Sam , and Freddie find out that they have also become online celebrities as their show – which features talent contests ,  व्यंजनों , problem-solving , और यादृच्छिक नाचना – garners अंतरराष्ट्रीय accolades  .
Carly lives in Seattle , Washington with her 26-year-old brother and guardian  स्पेंसर ( जेरी trainor ) और produces the दिखाएँ in a makeshift third-floor स्टुडियो मचान  in their apartment .
Their  माँ रै never महरूम देखी or उल्लेखित , लकिन उनके पिता , स्टीवन शे ( दाउद  Chisum ) , is a U.S. Air Force officer temporarily stationed on a submarine , and is often mentioned but is only seen in person during the series finale episode , `` iGoodbye '' .
westlife यहूद an आयरिश लड़के बैंड  which formed in 1998 and disbanded in 2012 .
Originally signed by Simon Cowell and managed by Louis Walsh , the group  's फाइनल line-up consisted of nicky byrne , kian  Egan , Mark Feehily and Shane Filan .
Brian McFadden was  a सदस्य इससे 1998 जबतक उसके प्रस्थान  in 2004 .
Westlife sold over 50 million  रिकॉर्ड विश्वव्यापी , a कुल कि शामिल स्टुडियो एल्बम , singles  , video releases , and compilation albums .
The group accumulated 14 number-one singles in the United Kingdom ( the third-highest in UK history ) , tying with  चट्टान रिचर्ड और रैंकिंग बस पीछे the बीटल्स और एल्विस  Presley .
They achieved a total  of 26 शीर्ष टेन singles over  their 14-year career .
By 2010 , Westlife was listed in the Guinness  संसार रिकॉर्ड , as the uk 's top-selling एल्बम समूह of  the 21st century .
They also won  the रिकार्ड of the साल ( the तभी म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार आधारित on पब्लिक मत in the uk ) a record-breaking चार टाइम्स और in 2012 , the आधिकारिक  Charts Company listed Westlife 34th amongst the biggest-selling singles artists in British music history .
Despite their European and Asian success , Westlife never managed to break into the U.S. market ,  achieving तभी एक hit सिंगल in 2000 : `` कसम it  Again `` .
In October 2011 , Westlife announced their intention to  विभाजित in 2012 , following उनके महानतम हिट्स दौरे  and the release of their Greatest Hits album .
The boyband 's final  कॉन्सर्ट यहूद आयोजित on 22 और 23 जून 2012  at Croke Park Stadium in Dublin .
The first farewell concert , offering  85,000 टिकटें , बेची आउट in a record-breaking 5 मिनट्स और the latter  screened live in cinemas worldwide .
Vitamin A is a group of nutritionally unsaturated hydrocarbons , which include  रेटिनॉल , retinal , retinoic एसिड और अनेक provitamin a carotenoids among जिससे  beta-carotene is the most important .
Vitamin A has multiple functions , it is  महत्वपूर्ण लिये विकास और विकास , लिये the मेंटेनेंस  of the immune system and good vision .
Vitamin A is needed by the retina of the eye in the form of retinal , which combines with protein opsin to form rhodopsin  the light-absorbing अणु , कि is जरुरी लिये दोनो low-light ( scotopic दृष्टि ) और रंग दृष्टि .
Vitamin A also functions in a very  अलग भूमिका as an irreversibly oxidized रूप of रेटिनॉल ज्ञात as retinoic एसिड , जिससे  is an important hormone-like growth factor for epithelial and other cells .
In foods of animal origin ,  the प्रमुख रूप of विटामिन a is an ester , primarily retinyl palmitate  , which is converted to retinol ( chemically an alcohol ) in the small intestine .
The retinol form functions as a storage form of the vitamin , and can be converted to and  इससे इसके visually क्रियाशील सुव्युद रूप , retinal  .
The associated acid ( retinoic acid ) , a metabolite  कि can be irreversibly synthesized इससे विटामिन a , रै तभी आंशिक विटामिन a कार्यकलाप , और  does not function in the retina for the visual cycle .
retinoic एसिड is प्रयुक्त लिये विकास और  cellular differentiation .
All forms of vitamin A have a beta-ionone ring to  जिससे an isoprenoid कड़ी is संलग्न , पुकारा a retinyl समूह  .
Both  संरचनात्मक सुविधाएँ हैं अनिवार्य  for vitamin activity .
The orange pigment of carrots – beta-carotene – can be represented as two connected retinyl  समूह , जिससे हैं प्रयुक्त in the देह to योगदान to विटामिन  A levels .
Alpha-carotene and gamma-carotene also have a single  retinyl समूह , जिससे दे उन्हें कुछ विटामिन  activity .
None  of the अन्य carotenes have  vitamin activity .
The carotenoid beta- cryptoxanthin possesses an  ionone समूह और रै विटामिन कार्यकलाप in  humans .
विटामिन a can be मिला in दो प्रिंसिपल  forms in foods :
Retinol , the form of vitamin A absorbed when eating animal food  स्त्रोत , is a पीला , fat-soluble पदार्थ  .
Since the pure alcohol form is  अस्थिर , the विटामिन is मिला in  tissues in a form of retinyl ester .
It is also commercially produced and  administered as esters ऐसे as retinyl  acetate or palmitate .
The carotenes alpha-carotene , beta-carotene , gamma-carotene ; and the xanthophyll beta-cryptoxanthin ( all of which contain beta-ionone rings ) , but no other carotenoids , function as provitamin A in herbivores and  सर्वाहारी पशु , जिससे possess the एंजाइम ( 15-15'-dioxygenase ) जिससे cleaves beta-carotene in the intestinal mucosa और converts  it retinol .
In general , carnivores are poor converters of ionine-containing carotenoids , and  pure carnivores ऐसे as बिल्लियों और ferrets कमी 15-15'-dioxygenase और can नहीं बदलें कोई carotenoids to retinal  ( resulting in none of the carotenoids being forms of vitamin A for these species ) .
Selena Marie Gomez ( born  जुलाई 22 , 1992 ) is an अमरीकी  singer and actress .
She made her debut as  a चाइल्ड अभिनेत्री in बार्नी  & Friends .
In 2007 ,  गोमेज़ आए to prominence as a अभिनीत डाल सदस्य in the टेलीविज़न  series Wizards of Waverly Place .
She signed to Hollywood Records the following year , and became the  संस्थापक और सीसे सिंगर of the पॉप बैंड सेलिना  Gomez & the Scene .
Their studio albums Kiss & Tell ( 2009 ) , A Year Without Rain ( 2010 ) , and When the Sun Goes Down ( 2011 ) were certified  सुनहरा by the रिकॉर्डिंग उद्योग संघ of अमेरिका ( riaa ) और have शाखित platinum-certified singles `` naturally `` , `` जो says `` , और `` प्रेम  You like a Love Song `` .
After the release of television films and their  accompanying soundtracks , गोमेज़ बना उसके नाट्य फिल्मी डेब्यू in ramona और beezus in 2010 और स्ट्रक्चर  in Monte Carlo in 2011 .
Upon the conclusion of Wizards of Waverly Place and the hiatus of Selena Gomez & the Scene in 2012 , she focused on her film career , serving as a  आवाज़ अभिनेत्री in होटल transylvania और अभिनीत in वसन्त ब्रेकर्स the following  year .
Her debut solo album is  tentatively अनुसूचित to be released in गर्मियाँ 2013 , और is  preceded by its lead single `` Come & Get It `` .
Outside of her work in the entertainment industry , Gomez is involved in philanthropic activities through charity work and  विभिन्न सोशल और पर्यावरणीय कल्याणकारी  .
tracie monique स्पेंसर ( born जुलाई 12 ,  1976 ) is an American R & B and pop singer-songwriter , actress , and model .
sacramento is the पूंजी नगर of the u.S. राज्य  of California and the seat of government of Sacramento County .
It is located at the confluence of the Sacramento River and the American River in  the उत्तरी portion of कैलिफ़ोर्निया 's expansive  Central Valley .
With an estimated 2011 population of  477,891 , it is the sixth-largest नगर in कैलिफ़ोर्निया  and the 35th largest city in the United States .
Sacramento  is the कोर सांस्कृतिक और आर्थिक बीच of the sacramento महानगर क्षेत्रफल जिससे शामिल  seven counties with an estimated 2009 population of 2,527,123 .
इसके महानगर क्षेत्रफल is the चौथी largest in कैलिफ़ोर्निया  after the Greater Los Angeles Area , San Francisco Bay Area , and the San Diego metropolitan area , as well as the 25th largest in the United States .
Sacramento was cited by Time magazine as  अमेरिका 's सबसे ethnically और racially एकीकृत  city in 2002 .
Sacramento became a city through the efforts of the Swiss immigrant John Sutter  , sr. , उसके बेटे जॉन sutter , jr. ,  and James W. Marshall .
Sacramento grew quickly  धन्यवाद to the सुरक्षा of sutter 's फोर्ट , जिससे  was established by Sutter in 1839 .
During the California Gold Rush , Sacramento was a major distribution point , a commercial and agricultural  बीच , और a टर्मिनस लिये वैगन रेल , stagecoaches , riverboats , the टेलीग्राफ , the टट्टू एक्स्प्रेस , और the पहला transcontinental  Railroad .
California State University , Sacramento , more commonly  ज्ञात as sacramento राज्य or सैक राज्य , is the largest  local university .
It is  एक of the twenty-three campuses  of the California State University system .
Drexel University  sacramento is स्तिथ in शहर , sacramento  .
University of the Pacific 's McGeorge  स्कूल of विधि is स्तिथ in the ओक पार्क  neighborhood .
In addition , the University of California , Davis  is स्तिथ in आसपास डेविस , वेस्ट of the पूंजी  .
The UC Davis  चिकित्सा बीच , a world-renowned शोध  hospital , is located in the city of Sacramento .
मेमोरियल दिन is a संयुक्त राज्य संघीय  holiday which occurs every year on the final Monday of May .
Memorial Day is a day of remembering the men and women who  died जबकि सेवारत in the संयुक्त राज्य हथियारबंद  Forces .
Formerly known as  सजावट दिन , it originated बाद the अमरीकी सिविल युद्ध to commemorate  the Union and Confederate soldiers who died in the Civil War .
By the 20th century  मेमोरियल दिन था महरूम विस्तारित to सम्मान सब अमेरिकी  who have died in all wars .
It typically  marks the प्रारंभ of the गर्मियाँ अवकाश  season , while Labor Day marks its end .
Many people visit  कब्रिस्तान और memorials , विशेषकर to सम्मान  those who have died in military service .
Many volunteers place  an अमरीकी ध्वज on प्रत्येक संगीन in नेशनल  cemeteries .
By the early 20th century , Memorial Day was an occasion for more general expressions of memory , as  लोगों visited the क़ब्रों of उनके मृतक रिश्तेदारों in गिरिजाघर कब्रिस्तान ,  whether they had served in the military or not .
It also became a long weekend increasingly devoted to shopping  , परिवार महफिलों , आतिशबाजी , यात्राएँ to the बीच , और नेशनल मीडिया कार्यक्रम  .
Annual Decoration Days  लिये particular कब्रिस्तान हैं आयोजित on a  Sunday in late spring or early summer in some rural areas of the American South , notably in the mountains .
In cases involving a family graveyard where  रिमोट पूर्वजो as खूब as those जो यहूद मृतक अधिक recently हैं दफ्न , इस  may take on the character of an extended family reunion to which some people travel hundreds of miles .
People gather on the  designated दिन और put पुष्प on क़ब्रों  and renew contacts with kinfolk and others .
There often is a religious service and a `` dinner on the ground ,  '' the परंपरागत पद लिये a potluck भोजन in जिससे लोगों प्रयुक्त to स्प्रेड the बर्तन  out on sheets or tablecloths on the grass .
It is believed that this practice began before the American Civil War and  यूँ may प्रतिबिंबित the रियल उत्पत्ति of  the `` memorial day '' idea .
Memorial Day is not to be confused with  दिग्गजों दिन ; मेमोरियल दिन is a दिन of remembering the मेन और महिलाओं जो died जबकि सेवारत  , while Veterans Day celebrates the service of all U.S. military veterans , living or dead .
Mt .  zion गिरिजाघर राज्य इतिहास मार्कर  near Philadelphia , Mississippi .
Freedom Summer ( also known as the Mississippi Summer Project ) was a  अभियान in the संयुक्त राज्य शुभारम्भ in जून 1964 to attempt to पंजीकरण as अनेक अफ़्रीकी अमरीकी  voters as possible in Mississippi , which had historically excluded most blacks from voting .
The project also set up dozens of Freedom Schools , Freedom Houses , and community centers  in छोटी कस्बों throughout मिसिसिपी to सहायता  the local black population .
The project was organized by the Council of Federated Organizations ( COFO ) , a coalition  of the मिसिसिपी शाखाओं of the चार प्रमुख सिविल अधिकारों संगठन ( sncc  , CORE , NAACP and SCLC ) .
Most of the impetus , leadership ,  और financing लिये the गर्मियाँ प्रोजेक्ट  came from the SNCC .
रॉबर्ट parris मूसा , sncc फ़ील्ड सचिव  and co-director of COFO , directed the summer project .
Blues is the name given to both a musical form and a music genre that originated in communities of primarily the ``  गहन दक्षिण `` of the संयुक्त राज्य around the समाप्त of the 19th सदी इससे spirituals , कार्य गीतों , फ़ील्ड hollers  , shouts and chants , and rhymed simple narrative ballads .
The blues form , ubiquitous in jazz , rhythm and blues , and rock and roll is characterized by  विशिष्ट कॉर्ड progressions , of जिससे the twelve-bar ब्लूज़ कॉर्ड progression  is the most common .
The blue notes that , for expressive purposes are sung or played flattened or  धीरे झुकी ( नाबालिग 3rd to प्रमुख 3rd ) in संबंध to the पिच of the प्रमुख स्केल , हैं भी an महत्वपूर्ण भाग  of the sound .
The blues genre is based on the  ब्लूज़ रूप लकिन possesses अन्य विशेषताएँ ऐसे as विशिष्ट  lyrics , bass lines , and instruments .
Blues  can be subdivided into अनेक subgenres ranging इससे देश to शहरी ब्लूज़ कि यहूद  more or less popular during different periods of the 20th century .
Best known are the Delta ,  piedmont , जम्प , और शिकागो ब्लूज़ शैलियाँ  .
World  युद्ध ii चिह्नित the परिवर्तन इससे ध्वनिक to इलेक्ट्रिक ब्लूज़  and the progressive opening of blues music to a wider audience , especially white listeners .
in the 1960s और 1970s , a संकर रूप  called blues-rock evolved .
The term `` the  ब्लूज़ '' refers to the `` ब्लू शैतानों '' , अर्थ वेदना और उदासी ; an जल्दी उपयोग  of the term in this sense is found in George Colman 's one-act farce Blue Devils ( 1798 ) .
Though the use of the phrase in  african-american म्यूज़िक may be पुरानी , it रै महरूम attested to चूंकि 1912 , जब हार्ट wand 's ``  Dallas Blues `` became the first copyrighted blues composition .
In lyrics the phrase is often used  to describe a उदास  mood .
A quarter  डालर , commonly shortened to क्वार्टर , is a सिक्का  worth 1⁄4 of a United States dollar or 25 cents .
The quarter has  महरूम उत्पादित चूंकि 1796  .
The choice of 25¢ as a denomination , as opposed to 20¢ which is  अधिक आम in अन्य भाग of the संसार , originated साथ the अभ्यास of dividing स्पेनी milled  Dollars into eight wedge shaped segments ( cf. `` pieces of eight `` ) .
At one time `` two bits `` , i.e . two wedges ,  प्रत्येक कील an आठवीं , यूँ a क्वार्टर of the स्पेनी  real , was a common nickname for a quarter .
Day of the Dead ( ) is a Mexican holiday  मनाये throughout मैक्सिको और around the संसार  in other cultures .
The holiday focuses on  महफिलों of परिवार और मित्रों to दुवा लिये और याद मित्रों  and family members who have died .
It is particularly celebrated in Mexico ,  जहाँ it is a नेशनल अवकाश  , and all banks are closed .
The celebration takes place on November  1 और 2 , in कनेक्शन साथ the कैथोलिक छुट्टियाँ of सब संतो ' दिन और सब souls  ' Day .
Traditions connected with  the अवकाश शामिल भवन निजी altars honoring the मृतक using शुगर skulls , marigolds , और the पसंदीदा भोजन और पेय of the  departed and visiting graves with these as gifts .
They also  छोड़  possessions of the deceased .
विद्वानों ट्रेस the origins of the आधुनिक मैक्सिकन अवकाश to स्वदेशी observances डेटिंग  back hundreds of years and to an Aztec festival dedicated to the goddess Mictecacihuatl .
the अवकाश रै स्प्रेड throughout the संसार : in ब्राज़ील , dia de  Finados is a public holiday that many Brazilians celebrate by visiting cemeteries and churches .
In Spain , there are  त्यौहार और parades , और , at the समाप्त of the दिन , लोगों एकत्रित at कब्रिस्तान और  pray for their dead loved ones .
Similar observances occur elsewhere in Europe , and  similarly प्रसंग जश्न appear in अनेक एशियाई और अफ़्रीकी संस्कृतियों  .
अनीता mk viii .
The ANITA Mark VII and ANITA Mark VIII calculators were launched  simultaneously in लेट 1961 as the संसार 's पहला all- इलेक्ट्रॉनिक डेस्कटॉप calculators  .
Designed  और निर्मित by the घंटी  Punch Co .
in Britain , and marketed through its Sumlock Comptometer  प्रभाग , वे प्रयुक्त वैक्यूम tubes और cold-cathode switching tubes in उनके लॉजिक circuits और nixie tubes लिये उनके numerical  displays .
They were  the पहला of a श्रेणी of डेस्कटॉप और hand-held इलेक्ट्रॉनिक calculators कि the कम्पनी  was to develop and sell under the ANITA name into the mid-1970s .
George Washington ( – , 1799 ) was the first President of the United States ( 1789–1797 ) , the  commander-in-chief of the महाद्वीपीय फौज दौरान the अमरीकी क्रांतिकारी  War , and one of the Founding Fathers of the United States .
He presided over the convention that drafted the Constitution , which replaced the  आलेख of कनफेडरेशन और  established the position of President .
Washington was elected President as the unanimous choice of  the 69 निर्वाचक in 1788 , और he परोसा  two terms in office .
He oversaw the creation of  a दमदार , well-financed नेशनल सरकारी कि कायम neutrality in the युद्धों raging in यूरोपीय  , suppressed rebellion , and won acceptance among Americans of all types .
His leadership style established many forms and rituals of government that have been  प्रयुक्त चूंकि , ऐसे as using a कैबिनेट प्रणाली  and delivering an inaugural address .
Further , the peaceful transition from his  प्रेसिडेंसी to the प्रेसिडेंसी of जॉन एडम्स स्थापित a परंपरा  that continues into the 21st century .
Washington was hailed as `` father of his  देश `` भी दौरान  his lifetime .
Washington was born into  the प्रांतीय gentry of औपनिवेशिक वर्जिनिया ; उसके धनवान planter  family owned tobacco plantations and slaves .
After both his father and older brother died when he was young , Washington became  personally और professionally संलग्न to the शक्तिशाली विलियम फेयरफैक्स , जो प्रचारित  his career as a surveyor and soldier .
Washington quickly  became a वरिष्ठ अधिकारी in the औपनिवेशिक शक्तियां दौरान the  first stages of the French and Indian War .
Chosen by the Second Continental Congress in 1775 to be  commander-in-chief of the महाद्वीपीय फौज in the अमरीकी क्रान्ति , वॉशिंगटन प्रबंधित to फ़ोर्स  the British out of Boston in 1776 , but was defeated and almost captured later that year when he lost New York City .
After crossing the Delaware River in the dead of winter , he defeated the British in  दो लड़ाइयों , retook नई जर्सी और लौटी आवेग to the patriot  cause .
Because of his strategy , Revolutionary forces captured two major British  सेना at साराटोगा in 1777 और yorktown in 1781  .
इतिहासकारों laud वॉशिंगटन लिये उसके चयन और पर्यवेक्षण of उसके सेनापतियों , प्रोत्साहन of मनोबल  and ability to hold together the army , coordination with the state governors and state militia units , relations with Congress and attention to supplies , logistics , and training .
In battle ,  however , वॉशिंगटन थी repeatedly outmaneuvered  by British generals with larger armies .
After victory had been finalized in 1783 , Washington  resigned as commander-in-chief बल्कि than seize शक्ति , proving उसके विपक्ष  to dictatorship and his commitment to American republicanism .
Dissatisfied with the weaknesses of the  आलेख of कनफेडरेशन , in 1787 वॉशिंगटन presided  over the Constitutional Convention that drafted the United States Constitution .
निर्वाचित unanimously as the पहला अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य in 1789 , he attempted  to bring rival factions together to unify the nation .
He  समर्थित सिकंदर हैमिल्टन 's कार्यक्रम to अदा बंद सब राज्य और नेशनल कर्ज़ , to implement  an effective tax system and to create a national bank ( despite opposition from Thomas Jefferson ) .
वॉशिंगटन proclaimed the संयुक्त  States neutral in the wars raging in Europe after 1793 .
He avoided war with Great  ब्रिटेन और गारंटी a दशक of सलाम और लाभप्रद व्यापार by securing the jay सन्धि  in 1795 , despite intense opposition from the Jeffersonians .
Although  never officially joining the federalist पार्टी  , he supported its programs .
Washington  's विदाई पता थी an influential प्राइमर on  republican virtue and a warning against partisanship , sectionalism , and involvement in foreign wars .
He  रिटायर्ड इससे the प्रेसिडेंसी in 1797 और लौटे  to his home , Mount Vernon , and his domestic life where he managed a variety of enterprises .
He  freed सब उसके स्लेव by उसके  final will .
Washington had a vision of a great and powerful nation that would be  निर्मित on रिपब्लिकन लाइनों using संघीय  power .
He  sought to उपयोग the नेशनल सरकारी to बचाना स्वतंत्रता , improve अवसंरचना  , open the western lands , promote commerce , found a permanent capital , reduce regional tensions and promote a spirit of American nationalism .
At his death , Washington was eulogized  as `` पहला in युद्ध , पहला  in peace , and first in the hearts of his countrymen '' by Henry Lee .
The Federalists made him the symbol of  उनके पार्टी लकिन लिये अनेक सालो , the jeffersonians जारी  to distrust his influence and delayed building the Washington Monument .
As the leader of the first successful revolution against a colonial empire in  संसार इतिहास , वॉशिंगटन became an  international icon for liberation and nationalism , especially in France and Latin America .
Fiscal Year 2012  u.S. संघीय बिता – नकदी  or Budget Basis .
Fiscal Year 2012  u.S. संघीय रसीदें  .
The Budget of the United States Government often begins  as the अध्यक्ष 's प्रस्ताव to the u.S. कॉंग्रेस  which recommends funding levels for the next fiscal year , beginning October 1 .
However ,  कॉंग्रेस is the देह जरूरी by विधि to pass a बजट  annually and to submit the budget passed by both houses to the President for signature .
Congressional  निर्णय हैं governed by नियम और विधान  regarding the federal budget process .
Budget committees set spending limits for the House and  सीनेट समितियों और लिये appropriations subcommittees , जिससे तब स्वीकृति व्यक्तिगत  appropriations bills to allocate funding to various federal programs .
If  कॉंग्रेस fails to pass an सालाना बजट ( as रै महरूम the मामला चूंकि 2009  ) , a series of Appropriations bills must be passed as `` stop gap '' measures .
After Congress approves an appropriations bill , it is sent to the President , who may sign it into law , or may veto it ( as he would  a बजट जब passed by the कॉंग्रेस  ) .
A vetoed bill is sent back to Congress ,  जिससे can pass it into विधि साथ a two-thirds बहुमत in  each chamber .
Congress  may भी combine सब or  some appropriations bills into an omnibus reconciliation bill .
In addition , the president may  निवेदन और the कॉंग्रेस may pass supplemental appropriations बिल्स or आपात supplemental appropriations  bills .
अनेक सरकारी एजेंसियों  provide budget data and analysis .
These include the  सरकारी जवाबदेही दफ्तर ( gao ) , congressional बजट दफ्तर , the दफ्तर of प्रबन्धन  and Budget ( OMB ) and the U.S. Treasury Department .
These agencies have  reported कि the संघीय सरकारी  is facing a series of important financing challenges .
In the short-run , tax revenues have declined significantly due to  a कठोर मंदी और कर नीति चुनाव , जबकि expenditures have विस्तारित लिये युद्धों  , unemployment insurance and other safety net spending .
In the long-run , expenditures related to healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid are projected to grow  तेज़ than the अर्थव्यवस्था overall as the जनसांख्यिकी matures  .
New Guinea ( also , Tok Pisin :  niugini , डच : nieuw गिनी , और ; historically : पापुआ ) is the संसार  's second largest island , after Greenland , covering a land area of 786,000 km2 .
Located in  the दक्षिणपश्चिम प्रशांत समंदर , it झूठ geographically to the ईस्ट of the मलय द्वीपसमूह , साथ जिससे it is sometimes  included as part of a greater Indo-Australian Archipelago .
Geologically it  is a भाग of the वही tectonic  plate as Australia .
When world sea levels were low , the two shared shorelines (  जिससे अभी झूठ 100 to 140 मीटर नीचे समुद्र स्तर ) , combining साथ lands अभी inundated into  the tectonic continent of Sahul , also known as Greater Australia .
The two landmasses became separated when the area now known  as the टोरेस जलसन्धि flooded बाद the समाप्त of the पिछला glacial  period .
anthropologically , नई गिनी is माना  part of Melanesia .
Politically , the  पश्चिमी हाफ of the द्वीप comprises दो इंडोनेशियाई प्रांतों  : Papua and West Papua .
The eastern half forms the mainland of the country of  पापुआ नई गिनी .
The  द्वीप रै a जनसांख्यिकी of परिचय 7.5 लाख ,  with a very low population density of only 8 inh/km2 .
New Guinea is differentiated from its drier , flatter , and less fertile southern  बंटवारा , ऑस्ट्रेलिया , by इसके much उच्चतर वर्षा और इसके क्रियाशील volcanic भूविज्ञान , साथ इसके उच्चतम पाइंट  , Puncak Jaya , reaching an elevation of 4,884 m ( 16,023 ft ) .
Yet the two land masses share a similar animal fauna , with marsupials ,  सहित wallabies और possums , और the egg-laying monotreme  , the spiny anteater , or echidna .
Other  than bats और कुछ दो दर्जन स्वदेशी कृंतक genera  , there are no pre-human indigenous placental mammals .
Pigs , several additional species of  चूहे , और the पूर्वज of the नई गिनी गायन श्वान यहूद introduced साथ  human colonization .
The human presence on the island dates back at least  40,000 सालो to the oldest इंसान migrations आउट of अफ़्रीकी  .
Research indicates that the highlands were an early and independent center of agriculture , with  प्रमाण of सिंचाई going वापस at तनिक 10,000  years .
Because of the time depth of its inhabitation and its highly fractured landscape , an unusually high number of languages are spoken on the island , with some  1,000 भाषाएं ( a फिगर उच्चतर than कि of सबसे महाद्वीपों ) having महरूम catalogued आउट of an अनुमानित world-wide pre-columbian  total of 6,000 human dialects .
Most are classified as Papuan languages , a generally accepted  भौगोलिक पद जिससे a अल्पसंख्यक of लेखक  hold to be a genetic one .
A number of  ऑस्ट्रोनीशियाई भाषाएं हैं बोला on the coast  and on offshore islands .
In the 16th century  स्पेनी explorers खोजा the द्वीप  and called it Nueva Guinea .
in हाल इतिहास पश्चिमी नई गिनी  was included in the Dutch East Indies colony .
The Germans annexed the northern coast of  the पूर्वी हाफ of the द्वीप as जर्मनी नई गिनी in उनके pre–world युद्ध i प्रयत्न to स्थापित  themselves as a colonial power , whilst the south eastern portion was reluctantly claimed by Britain .
Following the Treaty of Versailles , the German portion was awarded to Australia ( which was  already शासी the अंग्रेजों अर्जी , नामित the territory  of Papua ) as a League of Nations mandate .
The eastern half of the island was granted  स्वतंत्रता इससे ऑस्ट्रेलिया as पापुआ नई गिनी in 1975  .
The western half gained independence from the Dutch in 1961 , but  became भाग of इंडोनेशिया जल्द afterwards in विवादास्पद  circumstances .
`` The Van Buren Boys '' is the 148th episode of the sitcom  seinfeld , और नाम of a fictional नई यॉर्क  street gang .
Their  चिह्न is क्रासिंग the हैंड्स , साथ एक हाथ  with all the fingers 'up ' and spread out .
The  अन्य हाथ रै सब लकिन the अंगूठा और सूचक  finger up , for a total of eight ( 8 ) .
The gang is named  लिये the 8th अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य , मार्टिन  Van Buren ( who was the first president from New York ) .
इस थी the 14th एपीसोड लिये  the 8th season .
It aired on  फ़रवरी 6  , 1997 .
bevo चिह्न
Bevo was a  non-alcoholic malt पेय , or निकट बियर , brewed in the संयुक्त राज्य by the anheuser-busch  company beginning in the early 20th century .
Bevo enjoyed its greatest success during the time of prohibition , when beer ,  वाइन और आसुत liquors , यहूद बना illegal लिये तेरह सालो .
The Anheuser-Busch company started  brewing bevo जब alcoholic पेय यहूद निषिद्ध in 1916 by the संयुक्त  States armed forces .
Production rose greatly with national prohibition in 1919 , and Bevo was by far  the सबसे लोकप्रिय of the अनेक `` खाद्यान्न पेय '' or `` निकट beers '' of the समय  .
At the peak of  इसके लोकप्रियता in the जल्दी 1920s , अधिक than पाँच  million cases of Bevo were sold annually .
Renard with  a मग of bevo , चित्रित in टेरा cotta on the  interior walls of the Bevo building , St. Louis
Labels on  the बोतलों billed it as  `` Bevo the Beverage '' .
The name `` Bevo '' was coined from the word `` beverage  '' और the स्लावी भाषा शब्द लिये बियर `` pivo '' , और थी सुनाया  `` Bee-vo '' .
Some Bevo advertising featured the character `` Renard the Fox `` ( based on the  समर्थक of a मध्यकालीन फ्रेंच folk-tale ) , और promotional मग साथ इस अक्षर यहूद manufactured  .
In 1930 Anheuser-Busch built a series of boat-bodied  गाड़ियाँ in इसके st. लुई दुकानें पुकारा the `` bevo नौकाएँ ''  which were used for promotion .
Seven are believed to have been built on  pierce-arrow 8-cylinder chassis जबकि एक surviving उदाहरण  was based upon 1930 Cadillac 353 V8 .
Billboard advertising Bevo  in trenton , नई  Jersey , 1917
A  समकालीन विज्ञापन पढ़ा `` कूलिंग और invigorating  , Bevo the Beverage .
Order by the case  इससे अपना पंसारी , druggist  , or dealer . ''
The paper label on  the वापस of the बोतल  read `` The All-Year-Round Soft Drink .
appetizing - healthful - पौष्टिक  - Refreshing .
मिल्क or जल may contain  bacteria .
bevo never  does . ''
Bevo became part of the popular culture of the time , and is mentioned in various  लोकप्रिय गीतों और vaudeville skits of the  era .
This led  to द्वितीयक कठबोली उपयोग of the शब्द ; लिये उदाहरण , in अमरीकी सैन्य  slang a young and inexperienced officer was called a `` Bevo '' .
the विश्वविद्यालयों of टेक्सास नामित इसके शुभंकर ``  Bevo '' , a name which has stuck to this day .
Irving Berlin included a paean to the drink ,  `` तुम ca n't रहो up on bevo '' , in उसके 1917  army revue , Yip Yip Yaphank .
In the late 1920s smuggled bootleg beer  और liquor as खूब as `` homebrew `` , काटें into bevo  's marketshare .
With sales flattening  to 100,000 मामले by 1929 , anheuser-busch  stopped production .
The Bevo Mill  , st. लुई , in  2008
The Bevo building  , साथ the renard अक्षर prominently प्रदर्शित at the किनारे , स्टिल operates  as a bottling facility at their main brewery in St. Louis , Missouri .
The landmark  bevo मिल , constructed by अगस्त  Anheuser Busch , Sr. in 1917 .
It was closed in 2009  , लकिन it reopened in अक्तूबर  2009 under new owners .
Bevo  is भी उल्लेखित in the छोटी स्टोरी `` the हत्यारे `` by अर्नेस्ट हेमिंगवे  ; as well as in Babbitt by Sinclair Lewis .
mylanta is an over the काउंटर दवा प्रयुक्त लिये the उपचार of एसिड reflux , heartburn  , and gastroesophageal reflux disease ( also known as GERD ) .
Foremilk and  hindmilk नमूने of इंसान स्तन  milk
a कांच of pasteurized  cow milk
मिल्क is a श्वेत द्रव उत्पादित  by the mammary glands of mammals .
It is the primary source of nutrition for young mammals  पहले वे हैं समर्थ to  digest other types of food .
Early- lactation milk contains colostrum , which carries the mother 's antibodies  to the baby और can reduce the रिस्क of अनेक रोगों in the baby  .
It  भी contains अनेक  other nutrients .
As an agricultural product , milk is  निकाली इससे स्तनधारियों और प्रयुक्त as  food for humans .
Worldwide ,  दुग्ध खेतो उत्पादित परिचय  730 million tonnes of milk in 2011 .
इण्डिया is the संसार 's largest निर्माता  and consumer of milk , yet neither exports nor imports milk .
New Zealand , the European Union 's  27 सदस्य राज्य , ऑस्ट्रेलिया , और the संयुक्त राज्य हैं the संसार 's largest  exporters of milk and milk products .
China and Russia are the  संसार 's largest importers of मिल्क  and milk products .
Throughout the world ,  वहीँ हैं अधिक than 6 अरब उपभोक्ता of  milk and milk products .
Over 750 million people  सजीव भीतर दुग्ध खेती households  .
Milk  is a कुंजी योगदानकर्ता to improving पोषण और खाना सुरक्षा विशेषकर  in developing countries .
Improvements in livestock and dairy  प्रौद्योगिकी प्रस्ताव significant वादा in reducing गरीबी और कुपोषण in  the world .
Motorcycle speedway , usually  referred to as स्पीडवे , is a मोटरसाइकिल खेल involving चार और sometimes  up to six riders competing over four anti-clockwise laps of an oval circuit .
Speedway motorcycles use only one gear and have no brakes and racing takes place on a flat  ओवल track प्रायः consisting of मैल or loosely packed  shale .
Competitors  उपयोग इस सतह to स्लाइड उनके मशीने  sideways , powersliding or broadsiding into the bends .
On the straight sections of  the track the  motorcycles reach speeds of up .
The exact origins of the sport are unknown but there is evidence of a type of speedway racing being  practised in the यूएसए पहले the पहला संसार युद्ध और in ऑस्ट्रेलिया in  the late 1910s and early 1920s .
There are now both domestic and international competitions in a  क्रमांक of देशों सहित the स्पीडवे संसार कप whilst the  highest overall scoring individual in the Speedway Grand Prix events is pronounced the world champion .
Speedway is popular in central and northern Europe and to a  lesser extent in ऑस्ट्रेलिया और उत्तर अमेरिका  .
A variant of track racing , speedway is administered  internationally by the fédération internationale  de Motocyclisme ( FIM ) .
Domestic  स्पीडवे कार्यक्रम  are regulated by FIM affiliated national motor sport federations .
Vitamin D is a group  of fat-soluble secosteroids जिम्मेदार लिये intestinal अवशोषण  of calcium and phosphate .
In humans , the most  महत्वपूर्ण सम्बन्धित यौगिकों of विटामिन  D are vitamin D2 and vitamin D3 .
cholecalciferol ( विटामिन d3 ) और ergocalciferol ( विटामिन d2 ) हैं अद्वितीय as वे constitute कया  we know as vitamin D and can be ingested from the diet and/or supplements .
The body can also  synthesize विटामिन d ( इससे कोलेस्ट्रॉल ) जब सूर्य एक्सपोज़र is पर्याप्त ( hence  its nickname , the `` sunshine vitamin '' ) .
Although vitamin D is commonly called a vitamin ,  it is नहीं दरअसल an अनिवार्य dietary विटामिन in the सख्त भाव , as it can be synthesized in पर्याप्त amounts by सबसे  mammals exposed to sunlight .
( Cats and dogs can not synthesize  विटामिन d efficiently और जरूर प्राप्त it  in their diet . )
an सशुल्क रासायनिक यौगिक ( or सम्बन्धित नियत of यौगिकों ) is तभी scientifically  called a vitamin when it can not be synthesized in sufficient quantities by an organism , and must be obtained from their diet .
However , as with other compounds commonly called vitamins , vitamin D was discovered in an effort to find  the dietary पदार्थ कि थी lacking in a बीमारी , namely , rickets , the बाल्यकाल रूप of osteomalacia .
Additionally , like other compounds called vitamins , in the developed world vitamin D  is added to स्टेपल भोजन , ऐसे as मिल्क , to avoid बीमारी due to कमियां  .
Measures of  सीरम स्तर प्रतिबिंबित endogenous संश्लेषण इससे एक्सपोज़र to धूप as खूब as सेवन इससे the आहार  , and it is believed that synthesis may contribute generally to the maintenance of adequate serum concentrations .
The evidence indicates that the synthesis of vitamin D from sun exposure works in a feedback loop that prevents toxicity but , because of uncertainty about the cancer risk from  धूप , no सुझाव हैं जारी by the संस्थान of आयुर्विज्ञान , यूएसए , लिये the राशि of सूर्य एक्सपोज़र जरूरी  to meet vitamin D requirements .
Accordingly , the Dietary Reference Intakes for vitamin D assume that no synthesis occurs and  कि सब of a व्यक्ति 's विटामिन d is इससे उनके आहार , हालांकि कि  will rarely occur in practice .
In the liver vitamin D is converted to calcidiol , which is also known as calcifediol ( INN ) , 25-hydroxycholecalciferol , or 25-hydroxyvitamin D—abbreviated 25 ( OH ) D ; and which is the specific vitamin D metabolite that is  measured in सीरम to determine a व्यक्ति 's विटामिन  D status .
Part of the calcidiol is converted by the kidneys to calcitriol , the biologically active form of vitamin D. Calcitriol circulates as a hormone in the blood ,  regulating the विशेषज्ञता of कैल्सियम और फास्फेट in the bloodstream और promoting the स्वस्थ विकास और remodeling  of bone .
Calcidiol is also converted to calcitriol outside of the kidneys for other purposes , such as the  अप्रसार , differentiation और apoptosis of कोशिकाएं ; calcitriol भी affects neuromuscular फलन और सूजन  .
Beyond its use to prevent  osteomalacia or rickets , the प्रमाण लिये अन्य स्वास्थ्य प्रभाव of विटामिन  D supplementation in the general population is inconsistent .
The best evidence of  लाभ is लिये अस्थि स्वास्थ्य और a घटी  in mortality in elderly women .
The Duramax is a General  मोटर्स डीज़ल इंजन परिवार लिये light- और मीडियम ड्यूटी ट्रक , designed by  Isuzu .
The  6.6-liter duramax is उत्पादित  by DMAX , a joint venture between GM and Isuzu in Moraine , Ohio .
This engine was initially installed in 2001 model year Chevy and GMC trucks  और रै महरूम an विकल्प चूंकि तब in pickups , वैन , और medium-duty ट्रक  .
In 2006 , production at Moraine was reportedly  सीमित to लगभग 200,000 इंजन प्रति साल  .
On May 9 , 2007 ,  dmax घोषित the उत्पादन of the 1,000,000th duramax v-8  diesel at its Moraine facility .
duramax lml
balto  .
is also a  परंपरागत लिखा संक्षिप्त लिये बाल्टीमोर , मेरीलैंड  .
प्रतिमा of balto in सेंट्रल  Park ( New York City )
Balto ( 1919 –  कूच 14 , 1933 ) थी a siberian हस्की sled श्वान जो led उसके टोली on the फाइनल लेग of the 1925 सीरम चलाएं to nome  , in which diphtheria antitoxin was transported from Anchorage , Alaska , to Nenana , Alaska , by train and then to Nome by dog sled to combat an outbreak of the disease .
The  चलाएं is commemorated by the सालाना iditarod ट्रेल  Sled Dog Race .
Balto was named after  the सामी एक्सप्लोरर सैमुएल balto  .
balto died at the आयु  of 14 .
प्राध्यापक स्टीफन हॉकिंग , ज्ञात लिये होने  a theoretical physicist , has appeared in many works of popular culture .
The Nissan Maxima is a mid-size / entry-level luxury car manufactured by  निसान , marketed as the `` four-door खेल car ''  .
The origins of the Maxima began in July  1976 as the डैटसन 810 , an upscale six-cylinder संस्करण of the bluebird , और  was spun into its own line in 1981 , having been made continuously since then .
The `` Maxima '' name was  लागू धीरे , शुरूआत in  1981 .
Most pre-2004 Maximas were built in Oppama , Japan , until the current North  अमरीकी maximas प्रारंभ होने समवेत in smyrna , टेनेसी  .
the `` उच्चिष्ट '' रै भी महरूम लागू to  Cefiros and Laurels in various markets .
Propolis  as छत्ता sealing
Propolis is a resinous mixture that honey bees  collect इससे पेड़ कलियों , sap बहती , or अन्य वनस्पति  sources .
It  is प्रयुक्त as a sealant लिये अनावश्यक  open spaces in the hive .
propolis is प्रयुक्त लिये छोटी गैप ( लगभग or कम ) , जबकि  larger spaces are usually filled with beeswax .
Its color  varies depending on इसके वनस्पति  source , the most common being dark brown .
Propolis is sticky  at और ऊपर रूम तापमान  , .
At lower temperatures , it  becomes मुश्किल और बहुत भंगुर  .
Steven Tyler ( born Steven Victor Tallarico ; March 26 , 1948 ) is an American singer , songwriter , and multi-instrumentalist , best  ज्ञात as the frontman और सीसे सिंगर of the बोस्टन -आधारd चट्टान बैंड एरोस्मिथ , in जिससे he भी plays  the harmonica , and occasional piano and percussion .
He is known as the  `` राक्षस  of Screamin ' '' due to his high screams and his wide vocal range .
He is  भी ज्ञात लिये उसके on-stage  acrobatics .
During his  high-energy प्रदर्शन , he प्रायः पोशाक in उज्जवल  , colorful outfits with his trademark scarves hanging from his microphone stand .
In the 1970s ,  टायलर रोज़ to prominence as the frontman of एरोस्मिथ , जिससे released ऐसे पड़ाव मुश्किल चट्टान एल्बम  as Toys in the Attic and Rocks .
In the late 1970s and early 1980s ,  टायलर था a भारी ड्रग और दारू व्यसन , और the  band 's popularity waned .
He completed drug  पुनर्वास in 1986 और subsequently कायम गम्भीरता लिये over 20 सालो , लकिन था a  relapse with prescription painkillers in the late 2000s , for which he successfully received treatment in 2009 .
After Aerosmith launched a remarkable comeback in the late 1980s  और जल्दी 1990s साथ the एल्बम स्थाई अवकाश , पंप , और मिलेंगी a पकड़ , टायलर became a household नाम  and has remained a relevant rock icon .
As a  परिणाम , he रै चूंकि embarked on अनेक सोलो endeavors सहित अतिथि दिखावे on अन्य कलाकारों ' म्यूज़िक ,  film and TV roles ( including as a judge on American Idol ) , authoring a bestselling book , and solo work ( including a Top 40 hit single in 2011 ) .
However , he  रै जारी to रिकार्ड म्यूज़िक और perform  with Aerosmith , after more than 43 years in the band .
The  बैंड 's नवीनतम एल्बम , म्यूज़िक इससे  Another Dimension !
, was  released on नवम्बर  6 , 2012 .
टायलर is शामिल among रोलिंग पत्थरों 100  Greatest Singers .
He was also  क्रमित 3rd on hit parader  's Top 100 Metal Vocalists of All Time .
In 2001 he was inducted  into the चट्टान और फेंकें हॉल of कीर्ति साथ  Aerosmith , and he was the presenter when AC/DC was inducted into the Hall of Fame in 2003 .
In 2013 , Tyler and his songwriting partner Joe Perry will be  प्राप्तकर्ता of the ascap संस्थापकों पुरस्कार और होगा भी be inducted into the songwriters  Hall of Fame .
The liver produces urea in the urea cycle  as a बर्बाद उत्पाद of the पाचन  of protein .
Normal human adult blood should contain between 7 to 21 mg of  यूरिया नाइट्रोजन प्रति 100 ml ( 7–21 mg/ dl )  of blood .
Individual  laboratories may have अलग सन्दर्भ  ranges , and this is because the procedure may vary .
Wayne Fontes ( born February 2 , 1940 ) is a former American  फ़ुटबॉल कोच और कॉलेज और पेशेवर फ़ुटबॉल खिलाड़ी जो थी  the head coach of the NFL 's Detroit Lions from 1988 to 1996 .
His 67 wins and 71 losses are  प्रत्येक the सबसे लिये a सिर कोच  in team history .
The Jews ( ISO 259-3 Israeli pronunciation ) , also known  as the यहूदी लोगों , हैं a स्वदेश और an ethnoreligious समूह , originating in the israelites or  Hebrews of the Ancient Near East .
The Jewish ethnicity , nationality , and religion are strongly  interrelated , as judaism is the परंपरागत आस्था of the यहूदी  nation .
Converts to  judaism , जिनकी औकात as यहूदियों भीतर the यहूदी  ethnos is equal to those born into it , have been absorbed into the Jewish people throughout the millennia .
In Jewish tradition , Jewish ancestry is traced to the Biblical  patriarchs अब्राहम , इसहाक़ और याक़ूब in the दूसरी मिलेनियम bce  .
The modern State of Israel was  स्थापित as a यहूदी nation-state , और defines itself as ऐसे  in its Basic Laws .
Its Law of Return grants the right of  नागरिकता to कोई jew जो निवेदन  it .
Israel is the only  देश जहाँ यहूदियों  are a majority of the population .
Jews also enjoyed political autonomy  twice पहले in प्राचीन इतिहास  .
The first of these periods lasted from 1350 to 586 BCE , and encompassed the periods of the Judges , the United Monarchy , and the Divided Monarchy of the Kingdoms of  इसराईल और यहूदा , समाप्ति साथ the विनाश of the पहला टेम्पल  .
The second was the period of the  hasmonean किंगडम spanning इससे 140 to 37 bce  .
Since the destruction of the First  टेम्पल , सबसे यहूदियों have जिया  in diaspora .
A minority in every country in which they live ( except Israel ) , they have frequently experienced  persecution throughout इतिहास , resulting in a जनसांख्यिकी कि रै fluctuated दोनो in संख्याएँ और वितरण  over the centuries .
The world  यहूदी जनसांख्यिकी पहुँचे a शिखर of 15 लाख prior to the  Second World War , but six million Jews were killed in the Holocaust .
Since then the population has risen again and , was estimated at 13.4 million by the North American Jewish Data Bank , or  कम than 0.2 % of the कुल संसार जनसांख्यिकी ( roughly एक in प्रत्येक 514 लोगों  ) .
According to this report , about 42.5 % of all Jews reside in Israel ( 5.7 million ) ,  और 39.3 % in the संयुक्त राज्य ( 5.3 लाख ) , साथ सबसे of the शेष जीना  in Europe ( 1.5 million ) and Canada ( 0.4 million ) .
These numbers include all those who consider  themselves यहूदियों , whether or नहीं वे हैं संबद्ध  with a Jewish organization .
The total  संसार यहूदी जनसांख्यिकी , however ,  is difficult to measure .
In addition to issues with census methodology , there are halakhic disputes  regarding जो is a jew और धर्मनिरपेक्ष , राजनैतिक , और ancestral पहचान  factors that may affect the figure considerably .
Corpus Christi  बारात  .
Oil on canvas  by कार्ल एमिल  Doepler .
Corpus  domini redirects  here .
For  अन्य उपयोग देखिए कॉर्पस domini  ( disambiguation )
The Feast of Corpus Christi ( Latin for Body of Christ ) , also known as Corpus Domini , is a Latin Rite liturgical solemnity  celebrating the परंपरा और विश्वास in the देह और रक्त of यीशु मसीह और  his Real Presence in the Eucharist .
It emphasizes the joy of the institution of the Eucharist , which  थी observed on पावन गुरुवार in the somber माहौल  of the nearness of Good Friday .
in the उपस्थित रोमन missal , the feast is designated  the solemnity of The Most Holy Body and Blood of Christ .
It  is भी मनाये in कुछ anglican , लूथरन , और बूढ़ा  Catholic Churches that hold similar beliefs regarding the Real Presence .
The feast is liturgically  मनाये on the गुरुवार बाद ट्रिनिटी संडे or , `` जहाँ the solemnity of the सबसे  Holy Body and Blood of Christ is not a Holy Day of Obligation , it is assigned to the Sunday after the Most Holy Trinity as its proper day '' .
At the end of  पावन द्रव्यमान , वहीँ is प्रायः a बारात of the  Blessed Sacrament , generally displayed in a monstrance .
The procession is followed by  सुनाकर of the धन्य  Sacrament .
A notable Eucharistic  बारात is कि presided over by the पोप प्रत्येक साल in रोम , जहाँ it begins at the archbasilica  of St. John Lateran and makes its way to the Basilica of Saint Mary Major , where it concludes with Benediction .
C-reactive protein ( CRP ) is a protein found in the blood , the levels of which rise in  जवाब to सूजन ( i.e . c-reactive प्रोटीन is an acute-phase  protein ) .
Its physiological role is to bind to phosphocholine expressed on the surface of dead or dying cells ( and  कुछ प्रकार of जीवाणु ) in अनुक्रम to activate the पूरक प्रणाली  via the C1Q complex .
CRP is synthesized by the liver in  जवाब to कारकों released by macrophages और  fat cells ( adipocytes ) .
It is  a सदस्य of the pentraxin  family of proteins .
It is not  सम्बन्धित to c-peptide or प्रोटीन  C .
C-reactive protein was the first  पैटर्न मान्यता receptor ( prr ) to be पहचाना  .
The  प्रारंभ of the व्यवस्थित यूरोपीय colonization of the americas is typically दिनाँक to 1492 , जब a स्पेनी expedition  headed by Christopher Columbus sailed for India to open trade but inadvertently discovered the Americas .
European conquest , large-scale  खोजी और colonization जल्द  followed .
Seeing that Europe  थी preoccupied साथ अनेक आतंरिक युद्धों और थी धीरे recovering इससे the अनेक मौतों कि the bubonic  plague caused , the rapid expansion at which it grew in wealth and power was unforeseeable in the early 1400s .
The first expeditions  occurred साथ the caribbean coasts on the आइलैंड्स of हिस्पानिओला  , Puerto Rico and Cuba , and after 1500 extended into the interiors of both North and South America .
In 1497 , sailing from the north on  निमित्त of इंग्लैण्ड , जॉन cabot  landed on the North American coast , and a year later , Columbus 's third voyage reached the South American coast .
फ़्रांस संस्थापित colonies in much of पूर्वी उत्तर अमेरिका  , on a number of Caribbean islands , and in South America .
पुर्तगाल colonized ब्राज़ील  .
Eventually , the entire Western Hemisphere  आए अंतर्गत the कंट्रोल of यूरोपीय सरकारें , अग्रणी to profound परिवर्तन to  its landscape , population , and plant and animal life .
In the 19th century alone  over 50 लाख लोगों बाएँ यूरोपीय लिये  the Americas .
The post-1492 era  is ज्ञात as the काल of  the Columbian Exchange .
Keith Richards ( born 18 December 1943  ) is an अंग्रेज़ी संगीतकार , singer-songwriter और संस्थापक सदस्य  of the English rock band the Rolling Stones .
Rolling Stone magazine said Richards had  निर्मित `` चट्टान 's महानतम सिंगल देह of riffs '' , रैंकिंग  him 4th on its list of 100 best guitarists .
Fourteen songs Richards  लिखा साथ the रोलिंग पत्थरों ' सीसे vocalist मिक  Jagger are listed among Rolling Stone magazine 's `` 500 Greatest Songs of All Time `` .
Richards ' notoriety for illicit drug use stems in part from several drug busts during the late 1960s and 1970s and his candour regarding his  व्यसन to और eventual abstinence इससे हेरोइन  .
Testosterone is a steroid hormone from  the androgen समूह और is मिला in स्तनधारियों , सरीसृपों , पक्षियों , और  other vertebrates .
In mammals , testosterone is primarily secreted in the  अंडकोष of males और the अंडाशय of महिलाओं , हालांकि छोटी  amounts are also secreted by the adrenal glands .
It is the  प्रिंसिपल पुरूष sex हार्मोन  and an anabolic steroid .
In men , testosterone plays a key role in the development of male reproductive tissues such as the  testis और प्रोस्टेट as खूब as promoting द्वितीयक यौन विशेषताएँ ऐसे as increased मांसपेशी , अस्थि द्रव्यमान , और the विकास  of body hair .
in जोड , टेस्टोस्टेरोन is अनिवार्य लिये स्वास्थ्य और  well-being as well as the prevention of osteoporosis .
On average , in adult human males , the plasma concentration of testosterone is about 7–8 times as great as the concentration in adult human  महिलाओं ' प्लाज्मा , लकिन as the metabolic खपत of टेस्टोस्टेरोन in males is वृहद , the  daily production is about 20 times greater in men .
Females also are more  संवेदनशील to the हार्मोन  .
Testosterone is  observed in सबसे vertebrates .
Fish make a slightly  अलग रूप पुकारा 11-ketotestosterone  .
Its  बंटवारा in कीट  is ecdysone .
These ubiquitous steroids suggest that  sex हार्मोन have an प्राचीन विकासवादी  history .
Cluster sampling is a sampling technique used when  `` प्राकृतिक '' लकिन अपेक्षाकृत समरूप groupings हैं evident in a  statistical population .
It is often used in  विपणन शोध  .
In this technique , the total  जनसांख्यिकी is विभाजित into ये समूह ( or क्लस्टर  ) and a simple random sample of the groups is selected .
Then  the जरूरी सूचना is एकत्रित इससे a सरल यादृच्छिक नमूना  of the elements within each selected group .
This may be done for every element in these  समूह or a subsample of तत्व may be चयनित भीतर प्रत्येक  of these groups .
A common motivation for cluster sampling is to  reduce the कुल क्रमांक of साक्षात्कार और लागत दिए the  desired accuracy .
Assuming a fixed sample size , the technique  देता अधिक सटीक परिणाम जब सबसे of the विभिन्नता in the जनसांख्यिकी  is within the groups , not between them .
Jamestown is a town in Guilford County , North Carolina ,  संयुक्त राज्य , और is a उपनगरीय of the  nearby cities of Greensboro and High Point .
The  जनसांख्यिकी थी 3,382 at the  2010 census .
Natalie Portman ( born Natalie Hershlag ; ;  जून 9 , 1981 ) is an अभिनेत्री और मॉडल साथ डुअल अमरीकी और israeli  citizenship .
Her first role was as an  अनाथ लिया in by a हिटमैन in the 1994 कार्रवाई फिल्मी , लकिन  mainstream success came when she was cast as Padmé Amidala in the Star Wars prequel trilogy ( released in 1999 , 2002 and 2005 ) .
In 1999 ,  वो नामांकित at हार्वर्ड विश्वविद्यालयों to पढ़ाई मनोविज्ञान  while still working as an actress .
She completed her  स्नातक 's उपाधि in 2003  .
In 2001 , Portman opened in New York City 's Public  थिएटर उत्पादन of एंटोन चेखव 's the सीगल  .
In  2005 , पोर्टमैन प्राप्त a नामांकन लिये the अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन supporting  Actress and won the Golden Globe Award for Best Supporting Actress - Motion Picture for the drama Closer .
She won a Constellation Award for  बेहतरीन मादा प्रदर्शन  and a Saturn Award for Best Actress for her starring role in V for Vendetta ( 2006 ) .
She  निभाई अग्रणी भूमिकाएँ in the ऐतिहासिक dramas गोया 's भूत ( 2006  ) and The Other Boleyn Girl ( 2008 ) .
In May 2008 , she served as the youngest  सदस्य of the 61st सालाना कैन फिल्मी पर्व  jury .
Portman 's directorial debut , Eve ,  खोली the 65th वेनिस अंतरराष्ट्रीय फिल्मी पर्व 's शॉर्ट्स  competition in 2008 .
Portman  निर्देशित a खण्ड of the सामूहिक  film New York , I Love You .
In 2011 , Portman won the Academy Award , the Golden Globe Award , the BAFTA Award , the  स्क्रीन अभिनेताओं गिल्ड पुरस्कार , और the स्वतंत्र स्पिरिट पुरस्कार लिये  her lead performance as Nina Sayers in Black Swan .
Copper is a  रासायनिक तत्व साथ the प्रतीक cu ( इससे  ) and atomic number 29 .
It is a ductile metal  साथ बहुत ऊँची थर्मल और विद्युत  conductivity .
Pure copper is soft and  malleable ; a freshly उजागर सतह  has a reddish-orange color .
It is used as a conductor of heat and  विद्युत , a भवन सामग्री , और a constituent of विभिन्न मेटल alloys  .
The metal  और इसके alloys have महरूम प्रयुक्त  for thousands of years .
In the Roman era , copper was principally mined on Cyprus , hence the origin of the name  of the मेटल as сyprium ( मेटल of साइप्रस ) , बाद shortened to сuprum  .
Its compounds are  commonly encountered as तांबे ( ii ) लवण , जिससे प्रायः impart ब्लू or ग्रीन रंगों to खनिज  such as azurite and turquoise and have been widely used historically as pigments .
Architectural structures built with copper corrode  to दे ग्रीन verdigris ( or patina  ) .
Decorative art  prominently सुविधाएँ तांबे , दोनो by itself  and as part of pigments .
Copper  is अनिवार्य to सब जीना जीवों as  a trace dietary mineral because it is a key constituent of the respiratory enzyme complex cytochrome c oxidase .
In molluscs and crustacea  तांबे is a constituent of the रक्त रंजक hemocyanin , जिससे  is replaced by the iron-complexed hemoglobin in fish and other vertebrates .
The main areas where copper  is मिला in vertebrates हैं जिगर , मांसपेशी और  bone .
In sufficient concentration , copper compounds are poisonous to higher  जीवों और हैं प्रयुक्त as bacteriostatic substances , fungicides , और  wood preservatives .
The major professional sports  लीग , or बस प्रमुख लीग , in the संयुक्त राज्य और कनाडा हैं the  highest professional competitions of team sports in the two countries .
Although individual sports such as golf , tennis , and auto  रेसिंग हैं भी बहुत लोकप्रिय , the पद is प्रायः  limited to team sports .
The term `` major league  '' थी पहला प्रयुक्त in 1921 in सन्दर्भ to प्रमुख लीग बेसबॉल ( एमएलबी ) , the शीर्ष स्तर of  professional American baseball .
Today , the  प्रमुख उत्तरी उत्तर अमेरिका पेशेवर टोली खेल लीग हैं प्रमुख लीग बेसबॉल ( एमएलबी ) , the नेशनल बास्केट संघ ( एनबीए ) , the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल  League ( NFL ) , and the National Hockey League ( NHL ) .
Other notable leagues include Major League Soccer ( MLS ) , the Canadian Football League ( CFL ) , the Arena Football  लीग , प्रमुख लीग lacrosse , the नेशनल lacrosse लीग और the महिलाओं 's नेशनल बास्केट संघ  .
The NFL , MLB , NBA , and NHL are  commonly referred to as the  Big Four .
Each of these is the richest  पेशेवर क्लबों प्रतियोगिता in इसके खेल विश्वव्यापी  .
The best players can become cultural icons in both  देशों और elsewhere in the संसार , क्युकी the लीग आनंद a significant प्लेस in लोकप्रिय  culture in the US and Canada .
The NFL has 32 teams  , और the अन्य have  30 each .
the विशाल बहुमत of प्रमुख लीग टीमों हैं concentrated in the सबसे  populous metropolitan areas of the United States .
Baseball , football , hockey , and soccer have had  पेशेवर लीग लिये over 100 सालो ; जल्दी लीग ऐसे as the नेशनल संघ , ओहियो लीग , और नेशनल हॉकी संघ formed  the basis of the modern MLB , NFL and NHL respectively .
Soccer was first  professionalized in 1894 , लकिन लीग suffered greatly इससे कमी of स्थिरता  and seldom lasted more than a decade .
Soccer 's greatest successes were  in the रूप of the अमरीकी सॉकर लीग ( 1921-1933 ) , the  original North American Soccer League ( 1968-1984 ) , the National Professional Soccer League ( 1984-2001 ) and , currently , Major League Soccer ( 1996-present ) .
Basketball is a relatively new  विकास ; the एनबीए विकसित इससे the नेशनल बास्केट लीग और  its splinter group the Basketball Association of America , taking on its current form in 1949 .
Every  प्रमुख लीग averages 15,000 प्रशंसक in उपस्थिति  per game or higher as of 2011 .
Meridian Altitude is an astronomical navigation method of calculating  an निरीक्षक 's अक्षांश  .
Earned value management ( EVM ) , or Earned value project/performance management ( EVPM ) is  a प्रोजेक्ट प्रबन्धन तकनीक लिये measuring प्रोजेक्ट प्रदर्शन और प्रगति in  an objective manner .
Because EVM  रै the  ability to combine measurements of :
पैमाना
अनुसूची
and  cost,
in a single integrated system , Earned Value Management is able to  provide सटीक forecasts of प्रोजेक्ट प्रदर्शन समस्याएं , जिससे is an महत्वपूर्ण  contribution for project management .
Early EVM research showed that the areas of planning and control are significantly impacted by its use ; and  similarly , using the methodology improves दोनो पैमाना परिभाषा as खूब as the विश्लेषण of overall प्रोजेक्ट प्रदर्शन  .
More recent  शोध अध्ययन have दिखाया कि the सिद्धान्त of evm हैं धनात्मक predictors  of project success .
लोकप्रियता of evm रै grown significantly in हाल सालो परे सरकारी contracting , in जिससे सेक्टर इसके महत्व continues to वृद्धि  ( e.g. , recent new DFAR rules ) , in part because EVM can also surface in and help substantiate contract disputes .
रंगीन वसन्त  garden flowers
Spring is  एक of the चार conventional शीतोष्ण  seasons , following winter and preceding summer .
There are various  तकनीकी परिभाषाएं of वसन्त , लकिन लोकल उपयोग of the पद  varies according to local climate , cultures and customs .
When it  is वसन्त in the उत्तरी गोलार्ध , it  will be autumn in the southern hemisphere .
At the  वसन्त विषुव , दिनों हैं बंद to 12 घंटों long साथ दिन लंबाई increasing  as the season progresses .
वसन्त और `` springtime '' refer to the ऋतु , और भी to विचार of  rebirth , rejuvenation , renewal , resurrection , and regrowth , with festivals such as Carnival , Easter and Holi being celebrated at this time .
jamestown थी a उपनिवेश in the उपनिवेश of वर्जिनिया , the  first permanent English settlement in the Americas .
Established by the Virginia Company of London as `` James Fort '' on May 14 , 1607 ( O.S .  , may 24 , 1607 n.s . ) , it followed अनेक  earlier failed attempts , including the Lost Colony of Roanoke .
Jamestown served as  the पूंजी of the उपनिवेश लिये  83 years , from 1616 until 1699 .
The settlement was located within the territory of a  राजनैतिक एंटिटी ज्ञात as tsenacommacah , the राज्य of the powhatan confederacy , साथ around 14,000 देशी निवासियों , और  specifically was in part of the subdivision known as the Paspahegh tribe .
The natives initially welcomed the colonists with dancing , feasting and  तम्बाकू ceremonies , और वे provided निर्णायक प्रावधानों और support लिये the अस्तित्व of the colonists ,  who were not agriculturally inclined , although relations with the newcomers also soured fairly early on , leading to the total annihilation of the Paspahegh in warfare within 3 years .
Within a year of Jamestown 's founding , the Virginia Company  brought पॉलिश और डच colonists to सहायता improve the  settlement .
In 1619 , the first  प्रलेखित africans यहूद brought to jamestown , हालांकि the आधुनिक धारणा of गुलामी in the  future United States did not begin in Virginia until 1660 .
When the colony was subdivided into the  असली आठ shires of वर्जिनिया  in 1634 , the town became located in the eponymous James City Shire .
The London Company 's second settlement , Bermuda , claims to be the site  of the oldest कस्बा in the अंग्रेज़ी नई संसार , as st. जार्ज 's , बरमूडा थी officially स्थापित ( as नई लंदन ) in 1612 , whereas जेम्स फोर्ट , in  Virginia , was not to be converted into James towne until 1619 , and further did not survive into the present day .
In 1699 , the capital was relocated from Jamestown to what is today  williamsburg , बाद जिससे jamestown ceased to मौजूद as a उपनिवेश , मौजूदा आज तभी as an पुरातत्व साईट  .
Today ,  jamestown is एक of तीन स्थितियाँ comprising the ऐतिहासिक त्रिभुज  of Colonial Virginia , along with Williamsburg and Yorktown , with two primary heritage sites .
Historic Jamestowne , the  पुरातत्व साईट on jamestown द्वीप , is a सहकारी प्रयत्न by jamestown नेशनल ऐतिहासिक साईट ( भाग of औपनिवेशिक  National Historical Park ) , and Preservation Virginia .
The Jamestown Settlement , a living history interpretive site ,  is संचालित by the jamestown yorktown न्यास in संयोजन साथ  the Commonwealth of Virginia .
James Christopher Frey ( born  सितंबर 12 , 1969 ) is an अमरीकी लेखक .
His books A  लाख छोटी टुकड़े ( 2003 ) और my dost लियोनार्ड ( 2005 ) , as खूब  as Bright Shiny Morning ( 2008 ) , were bestsellers .
He was the subject of a scandal when  जांचकर्ताओं खोजा कि थाना समय और the extent of निश्चित चोटों यहूद अतिरंजित in  A Million Little Pieces , a purportedly autobiographical account of the author 's struggle with addiction .
Deere & Company , most commonly known by  इसके नाम जॉन deere , is an अमरीकी निगम आधारित in moline , इलिनोइस , और एक of the largest निर्माताओं  of agricultural machinery in the world .
In 2012 , it was listed as 97th in the Fortune 500  अमेरिका 's रैंकिंग और 190th in the सौभाग्य  500 Global ranking .
Deere and Company agricultural products , sold  अंतर्गत the जॉन deere नाम , शामिल tractors , combine हार्वेस्टर  , cotton harvesters , balers , planters / seeders , sprayers , and UTVs .
The company is also a manufacturer of construction equipment  और वानिकी उपकरण , as खूब as a प्रदायक of डीज़ल इंजन और drivetrains ( axles , ट्रांसमिशन , gearboxes  ) used in heavy equipment .
additionally , जॉन deere manufactures उपकरण प्रयुक्त in लॉन , grounds  , and turf care , such as walk-behind lawn mowers , zero-turn lawn mowers , lawn tractors , and snowthrowers .
to support the कोर व्यवसायों , जॉन deere भी provides  financial services and other related activities .
The company 's slogan is `` Nothing Runs Like a Deere '' and has a picture of a  leaping हिरण as a लोगो , a शब्द खेल pun on `` nothing रनों जैसे a हिरण ''  .
कार्ल westby coined the phrase `` nothing  Runs Like a Deere '' for a marketing campaign to sell snowmobiles .
The company 's products are also identifiable  by इसके distinctive शेड of ग्रीन पेंट , प्रायः augmented  by yellow trim .
The  संयुक्त राज्य ten-dollar विधेयक ( $ 10 ) is a denomination  of United States currency .
The first U.S. Secretary of the Treasury ( 1789–95 ) , Alexander  हैमिल्टन , is फिलहाल प्रदर्शित on the obverse of the विधेयक , जबकि the u.S. राजकोष भवन is प्रदर्शित  on the reverse .
( Hamilton is one of two  non-presidents प्रदर्शित on फिलहाल  issued U.S. bills .
the अन्य is बेंजामिन फ्रैंकलिन  , on the $ 100 bill .
Hamilton is one of only four people featured on U.S. paper currency ( 1861 to  the उपस्थित ) जो थी नहीं born in the महाद्वीपीय संयुक्त राज्य , as  he was from the West Indies .
The others are : Albert Gallatin , Switzerland ( $ 500 1862/63 Legal Tender ) ; George Meade ,  स्पेन ( $ 1,000 1890/91 राजकोष नोट ) ; और रॉबर्ट मॉरिस , इंग्लैण्ड ( $ 1,000 1862/63 विधिक टेंडर ; $ 10 1878/80 चांदी प्रमाणपत्र  ) .
In addition , Kamehameha I ,  appears on the 2008 हवाई राज्य क्वार्टर  . )
All $  10 बिल्स जारी आज  are Federal Reserve Notes .
The Bureau of Engraving  और मुद्रण says the औसत जीवन of a $ 10 विधेयक in परिसंचरण  is 18 months before it is replaced due to wear .
लगभग 6 % of सब  US banknotes printed in 2009 were $ 10 bills .
Ten dollar bills are delivered by  संघीय आरक्षित बैंको in पीला  straps .
The source of the face on the $ 10 bill is John Trumbull ’s 1805 portrait of  हैमिल्टन कि belongs to the पोर्ट्रेट संग्रहण of नई यॉर्क  City Hall .
The $ 10 bill is the only U.S. paper currency in circulation in which the portrait faces to the left ( the $ 100,000  विधेयक प्रदर्शित a पोर्ट्रेट of वुडरो विल्सन facing to the बाएँ , लकिन थी प्रयुक्त तभी लिये intra-government ट्रांजेक्शन  ) .
Andy Samuel Griffith ( June 1 , 1926 – July 3 ,  2012 ) थी an अमरीकी कर्ता , टेलीविज़न निर्माता , ग्रैमी पुरस्कार -winning southern-gospel  singer , and writer .
He was a Tony Award nominee for two roles , and gained prominence in the starring role in director Elia Kazan 's film A Face in the Crowd ( 1957 ) before he became  बेहतर ज्ञात लिये उसके टेलीविज़न भूमिकाएँ , playing the सीसे वर्ण in the 1960–1968 हालात कॉमेडी the एंडी ग्रिफ़िथ दिखाएँ और in  the 1986–1995 legal drama Matlock .
Theresa Penelope `` Terri ''  इरविन , ( née raines ; born जुलाई 20 , 1964 ) is an ऑस्ट्रेलियाई -आधारd , अमरीकी -born naturalist , लेखक , the विधवा of ऑस्ट्रेलियाई naturalist  Steve Irwin and owner of Australia Zoo at Beerwah , Queensland , Australia .
She co-starred  साथ उसके husband on the मगरमच्छ शिकारी , उनके unconventional टेलीविज़न प्रकृति वृत्तचित्र श्रेणी  along with its spin-off series , Croc Files and The Crocodile Hunter Diaries .
She  रै जिया in ऑस्ट्रेलिया चूंकि 1992 , जब वो  married Steve Irwin .
Andreas Cellarius 's illustration of the  copernican प्रणाली , इससे the harmonia  Macrocosmica ( 1660 ) .
Heliocentrism , or heliocentricism , is the  खगोलीय मॉडल in जिससे the धरती और ग्रह revolve around a अपेक्षाकृत stationary सूर्य at  the center of the Solar System .
The  शब्द आता इससे the यूनानी ( helios  `` sun '' and kentron `` center '' ) .
Historically , heliocentrism was opposed to  geocentrism , जिससे लगाई the धरती at  the center .
The notion that the Earth revolves around the Sun had been proposed as early  as the 3rd सदी bc by aristarchus of samos , लकिन aristarchus 's heliocentrism आकर्षित  little attention until Copernicus revived and elaborated it .
Lucio Russo , however , argues that this is a misleading  छाप resulting इससे the घाटा of वैज्ञानिक works of  the Hellenistic Era .
Using indirect evidence he  argues कि a heliocentric दृश्य थी expounded in हिप्पारकस  's work on gravity .
It was not until the 16th century that a fully predictive mathematical model of a heliocentric system was presented , by the  पुनर्जागरण गणितज्ञ , astronomer , और कैथोलिक मौलवी nicolaus कोपरनिकस of कैंडल , अग्रणी to the copernican क्रान्ति  .
In the following century , Johannes Kepler elaborated upon and expanded this model to include elliptical  orbits , और supporting observations बना using a दूरदर्शी यहूद प्रस्तुत by गैलीलियो गैलिली  .
With the observations of William Herschel , Friedrich  bessel , और अन्य , खगोलशास्त्रियों एहसास कि the सूर्य थी नहीं the बीच of the ब्रह्मांड और by the 1920s एडविन हबल था दिखाया कि it थी भाग of a आकाशगंगा ( the  Milky Way ) that was only one of many billions .
Norah Jones ( born Geetali Norah Jones Shankar ; March 30 , 1979 ) is an American  singer-songwriter , pianist , और  actress .
She is the  बेटी of भारतीय सितार खिलाड़ी रवि शंकर  and Sue Jones .
She is also Anoushka Shankar 's  half-sister  .
In 2002 , she  शुभारम्भ उसके सोलो म्यूज़िक करियर साथ the रिलीज of the commercially कामयाब और critically acclaimed एल्बम आइये दूर साथ me  , a fusion of country music and pop with elements of jazz which was certified diamond album , selling over 26 million copies .
The record  अर्जित जोन्स पाँच ग्रैमी पुरस्कार , सहित  the Album of the Year , Record of the Year , and Best New Artist .
Her subsequent studio albums , Feels Like Home , released in 2004 , Not Too Late , released in  2007 , the वही साल वो बना उसके फिल्मी डेब्यू in my ब्लूबेरी नाइट्स , और उसके 2009 रिलीज the पतन सब gained प्लेटिनम  status , selling over a million copies and were generally well received by critics .
Jones ' fifth studio album ,  छोटी टूटा दिल , थी released  on April 27 , 2012 .
Jones has won nine  ग्रैमी पुरस्कार और थी 60th on बिलबोर्ड पत्रिका 's  artists of the 2000–2009 decade chart .
Throughout her  करियर , जोन्स रै जीती numerous पुरस्कार  and has sold more than 50 million albums worldwide .
Billboard named  उसके the शीर्ष जैज़ कलाकार of the 2000–2009  decade .
Not to be  उलझन साथ आयाम of a शारीरिक मात्रा  .
लिये अन्य उपयोग , देखिए  Dimension ( disambiguation ) .
From left to  सही , the वर्गाकार ,  the cube , and the tesseract .
the वर्गाकार is bounded by 1-dimensional लाइनों , the घन by 2-dimensional  areas , and the tesseract by 3-dimensional volumes .
A projection of the cube is  दिए चूंकि it is viewed on a two-dimensional  screen .
The same applies to the tesseract , which additionally can  तभी be दिखाया as a प्रक्षेप भी in three-dimensional स्पेस  .
A  आरेख प्रर्दशित the पहला  four spatial dimensions .
In physics and mathematics , the dimension of a space or object  is informally पारिभाषित as the न्यूनतम क्रमांक of निर्देशांक needed to बताएँ  any point within it .
Thus a line has a dimension of one because only one  निर्देशांक is needed to बताएँ a पाइंट on it ( लिये उदाहरण ,  the point at 5 on a number line ) .
A surface such as a plane or the surface of a cylinder or sphere has a dimension of two because two coordinates are  needed to बताएँ a पाइंट on it ( लिये उदाहरण , to locate a पाइंट on the सतह of  a sphere you need both its latitude and its longitude ) .
The  अंदर of a घन , a बेलन or a गोला is three-dimensional  because three coordinates are needed to locate a point within these spaces .
In physical terms , dimension refers to the constituent structure of all space ( volume )  और इसके स्थिति in समय ( आभास as a अदिश आयाम साथ the t-axis ) , as खूब as the स्थानिक संविधान of वस्तुएँ within—structures कि correlate साथ  both particle and field conceptions , interact according to relative properties of mass —and are fundamentally mathematical in description .
These , or other axes , may be referenced to uniquely  पहचानो a पाइंट or ढांचा  in its attitude and relationship to other objects and occurrences .
Physical theories that incorporate time , such as  सामान्य आपेक्षिकता , हैं कहा to कार्य in 4-dimensional `` spacetime `` , ( पारिभाषित  as a Minkowski space ) .
आधुनिक theories tend to be `` higher-dimensional  '' including quantum field and string theories .
The state-space of  क्वांटम यांत्रिकी is an infinite-dimensional  function space .
The concept of dimension is  नहीं प्रतिबंधित to शारीरिक वस्तुएँ  .
High-dimensional spaces occur in mathematics  और the sciences लिये अनेक कारण , अक्सर as विन्यास स्पेसेस ऐसे as in लाग्रांजीय or हेमिल्टोनीय  mechanics ; these are abstract spaces , independent of the physical space we live in .
Fontana ( ) is a city of 200,762  निवासियों in सैन bernardino काउंटी , कैलिफ़ोर्निया  .
Founded in 1913 , it  remained essentially ग्रामीण जबतक संसार युद्ध ii , जब  entrepreneur Henry J. Kaiser built a large steel mill in the area .
It is now a regional hub of the trucking industry  , साथ अंतरराज्यीय 10 और राज्य रूट 210 transecting the नगर इससे ईस्ट to वेस्ट , और अंतरराज्यीय 15 गुजर  diagonally through its northwestern quadrant .
It is home to the largest of the San Bernardino County system  पुस्तकालयों , a संवर ऐतिहासिक थिएटर , a नगरपालिका पार्क , और the स्वचालित क्लबों स्पीडवे  on the site of the Kaiser Steel Mill .
Fontana also hosts the Fontana  दिनों हाफ मैराथन और 5k चलाएं  .
This race is  the तीव्रतम half-marathon कोर्स  in the world .
The U.S. 2012 Census reported that  fontana 's जनसांख्यिकी थी 200,762 in 2012 , बनाना it the दूसरी सबसे populous नगर in  San Bernardino county county and 14th in the state .
cowboys स्टेडियम is a स्टेडियम  with a retractable roof in Arlington , Texas .
It serves as the home of the  नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग 's डलास  Cowboys .
It replaced the  partially covered टेक्सास स्टेडियम , जिससे खोली in 1971  , and served as the Cowboys ' home through the 2008 season .
It was  समाप्त on  May 27 , 2009 .
the स्टेडियम सीटे 85,000 , बनाना it the तीसरा largest  stadium in the NFL by seating capacity .
The maximum capacity of the  स्टेडियम , सहित खड़ा रूम  , is 105,000 .
the पार्टी pass ( खोलें क्षेत्रों ) भाग हैं पीछे  seats in each end zone and on a series of six elevated platforms connected by stairways .
It has the world 's largest column-free interior and the fourth largest high  परिभाषा वीडियो स्क्रीन , जिससे hangs इससे 20 यार्ड लकीर to 20 यार्ड  line .
The facility can also be used for a variety of other activities outside of its main purpose ( professional football ) such as concerts ,  बास्केट खेल , मुक्केबाज़ी मिलान , कॉलेज फ़ुटबॉल और ऊँची स्कूल फ़ुटबॉल प्रतियोगिताओं , सॉकर  matches , and motocross races .
कनाडाई इतिहासकारों जबतक the 1980s tended to  focus on economic history , including labour history .
In part this is because Canada has had far fewer political or  सैन्य विरोध than अन्य समाजों  .
This was especially true in the first half of the twentieth  सदी जब आर्थिक इतिहास थी overwhelmingly  dominant .
Many of the most prominent English Canadian  इतिहासकारों इससे इस काल यहूद आर्थिक इतिहासकारों , ऐसे as हेरोल्ड innis , डोनाल्ड creighton  and Arthur R. M. Lower
Scholars of Canadian history were heirs to the  परंपराओं कि विकसित in यूरोपीय और the संयुक्त राज्य , लकिन frameworks कि worked  well elsewhere often failed in Canada .
The  heavily मार्क्सवादी बहकावे आर्थिक इतिहास कि dominates  Europe has little relevance to most of Canadian history .
A  फ़ोकस on क्लास , शहरी क्षेत्रों , और उद्योग  fails to address Canada 's rural and resource based economy .
Similarly , the monetarist school that is dominant in the  संयुक्त राज्य भी रै महरूम मुश्किल to ट्रांसफ़र  north of the border .
The study of economic history in Canada became highly focused on  आर्थिक भूगोल , और लिये अनेक सालो the प्रबल स्कूल of विचार  has been the staples thesis .
This school of thought  bases the पढ़ाई of the कनाडाई अर्थव्यवस्था on the  study of natural resources .
This approach has since  भी become प्रयुक्त बाहर of कनाडा in ऑस्ट्रेलिया और in  many developing nations .
Before the  आगमन of europeans , the पहला राष्ट्र of कया होता become कनाडा था a  large and vibrant trade network .
Furs , tools  , सजावटी वस्तुएं , और अन्य goods यहूद प्रायः transported हज़ारों of  kilometres , mostly by canoe throughout the many rivers and lakes of the region .
The early European  इतिहास of the कनाडाई अर्थव्यवस्था is प्रायः पढ़ाई through the स्टेपल्स लेख जिससे argues the कनाडाई  economy developed through the exploitation of a series of staples that would be exported to Europe .
Carbon-14 , 14C , or radiocarbon , is a radioactive  समस्थानिक of कार्बन साथ a केंद्रक containing 6  protons and 8 neutrons .
Its presence in organic materials is the basis  of the radiocarbon डेटिंग विधि pioneered by willard लिब्बी और सहयोगियों ( 1949 ) to  date archaeological , geological and hydrogeological samples .
Carbon-14 was discovered on 27  फ़रवरी 1940 , by मार्टिन कामेन और sam रूबेन at the विश्वविद्यालयों of कैलिफ़ोर्निया विकिरण प्रयोगशाला in बर्कली  , although its existence had been suggested by Franz Kurie in 1934 .
There are three naturally  occurring isotopes of कार्बन on धरती : 99 % of the कार्बन is carbon-12 , 1 % is carbon-13 , और carbon-14 occurs in ट्रेस amounts  , i.e. , making up about 1 part per trillion ( 0.0000000001 % ) of the carbon in the atmosphere .
The half-life of  carbon-14 is 5,730±40  years .
Carbon-14 decays into  nitrogen-14 through  beta decay .
The primary natural source of carbon-14 on Earth is cosmic ray  कार्रवाई upon नाइट्रोजन in the माहौल , और it is इसलिए a cosmogenic  nuclide .
However , open-air  नाभिकीय परीक्षण between 1955–1980  contributed to this pool .
The different  isotopes of कार्बन do नहीं differ appreciably  in their chemical properties .
This is used in chemical and biological research , in a technique called carbon labeling : carbon-14 atoms can be used to replace nonradioactive carbon , in order to trace  रासायनिक और biochemical प्रतिक्रियाएँ involving कार्बन अणु इससे कोई दिए सशुल्क यौगिक  .
बिजली is a अत्यधिक दृश्य  form of energy transfer
Lightning strikes are electrical discharges on a  विशाल स्केल between the माहौल और  an earth-bound object .
They mostly originate in thunderclouds and  terminate on the मैदान , पुकारा बादल to मैदान  ( CG ) lightning .
However , they  may भी be initiated इससे a बहुत लम्बा grounded ऑब्जेक्ट  and reach into the clouds .
Although `` a lightning strike '' is  commonly प्रयुक्त to describe सब बिजली , it is बल्कि ग़लत और a misnomer , as तभी परिचय 25 % of सब बिजली कार्यक्रम विश्वव्यापी हैं cg , the विशाल बल्क of बिजली कार्यक्रम हैं intracloud  ( IC ) or Cloud to Cloud ( CC ) , where discharge only occurs high in the atmosphere .
The scientific name for the complete process of a  सिंगल बिजली इवेंट is a और it is a बहुत जटिल , अनेक  stepped interaction , which is not completely understood .
Most CG flashes only  `` स्ट्राइक '' एक शारीरिक स्थान , referred to  as a termination .
The  प्राथमिक conducting चैनल , the उज्जवल coursing लाइट तुम may देखिए और कॉल a `` स्ट्राइक '' , is  only about 1 inch in diameter , although to our eyes it looks much larger .
They  हैं मील long  , upwards of tens of miles .
And the entire flash , lasts only a few  भिन्नों of a दूसरी , सबसे of जिससे is नहीं दृश्य to इंसान  eyes .
थंडर is सदा  produced by lightning .
Just like  बिजली , कि deceives हमारी आँखें , प्रायः looking larger or करीब than it  really is , the earth 's atmosphere and our brain 's perception of the outside world , ultimately determines whether it is `` heard '' or not .
Lightning can not happen in a vacuum devoid of ions , nor can  थंडर occur बगैर अणुओं to  vibrate .
Thunder is a physical absolute  लिये प्रत्येक सिंगल फ्लैश of बिजली  .
Contrary to popular belief , a lightning  स्ट्राइक itself is प्रायः नहीं जिम्मेदार लिये अनेक मौतों or चोटों इससे a  single event .
It would be impossible given the natural tendencies of a flash , unless people or  पशु यहूद stacked on शीर्ष of प्रत्येक अन्य , or वे यहूद somehow arranged खड़ा और भाग of the फ्लैश चैनल  .
When lightning ignites an available fuel  सोर्स और an विस्फोट occurs , it is the शॉक वेव or  fire causing the injuries , not the strike itself .
मैदान currents , भी पुकारा कदम संभावित , of an धरती  termination is what truly causes most injuries or death to humans and animals .
The near  instantaneous फटाफट of सतह आरोप , induced by the ओवरहेड thundercloud  itself , race to the strike point from hundreds to thousands of feet away during discharge .
इस वर्तमान , caused दौरान प्रत्येक स्ट्रोक , takes the पाथ of तनिक प्रतिरोध , जिससे may be आयन समृद्ध  human or animal legs , over poorly conducting earth .
This is why it is  बेहतरीन to crouch , साथ फीट बंद साथ  , if ever caught in the open during a thunderstorm .
Unfortunately , most reports do not draw a  भेद between the रियल कारण of चोट or मौत ,  be it the strike itself , a resulting explosion or fire , or usually responsible step potential .
पीटर F. kilmartin  ( born 1962 ) is the current Attorney General of Rhode Island .
Kilmartin is also a  रिटायर्ड पुलिस कप्तान और a पूर्व सदस्य  of the Rhode Island House of Representatives .
A couple  following उनके विवाह in the manti यूटा  Temple .
Sealing is an ordinance ( ritual ) performed in Latter  दिन संतो मंदिरों by a व्यक्ति पकड़कर the sealing  authority .
The purpose of this  अध्यादेश is to मुहर परिचित संबंध , बनाना संभावित  the existence of family relationships throughout eternity .
LDS teachings  प्लेस ग्रेट महत्व on the विशिष्ट प्राधिकार  required to perform these sealings .
Church doctrine teaches that this authority ,  पुकारा the priesthood , corresponds to कि दिए to संत पीटर  in .
Sealings are  typically performed as विवाह or as sealing of children  to parents .
They were  performed prior to the मौत of जोसेफ स्मिथ , jr. ( the प्रमुख संस्थापक of the latter  Day Saint movement ) , and are currently performed in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints .
Although some other  denominations , ऐसे as the जातियाँ of मसीह , दृश्य sealing as an centuries of  Smith 's practice of plural marriage , some do still perform them .
the 2000s , सुनाया `` दो हज़ारों '' , थी a दशक कि  began on January 1 , 2000 , and ended on December 31 , 2009 .
वैश्वीकरण , जिससे था त्वरित बाद the  early 1990s fall of communism , continued to be a force in the 2000s .
The growth of the Internet was one of the prime  योगदानकर्ता to वैश्वीकरण दौरान the दशक , बनाना it संभावित लिये लोगों to interact साथ अन्य लोगों , एक्स्प्रेस विचार , introduce अन्य to अलग संस्कृतियों और पृष्ठभूमि  , use goods and services , sell and buy online , research and learn about things , along with experiencing the world without having to leave home .
The institutions , linkages and technologies that  उभरा or यहूद redefined पहले होता subsequently in इस दशक  benefit many countries , in particular China and India .
However , in other parts of the world such progress failed to  पता जारी struggles साथ आधुनिकता , सबसे notably characterized  by the rise of al-Qaeda and other Islamist groups .
The September 11 attacks in 2001 led to the United States , United Kingdom , Spain , Canada and other  राष्ट्र आक्रमणकारी अफगानिस्तान , as खूब as implementing विभिन्न anti-terrorist उपायों at घर और  abroad in what was known as the War on Terror .
The European Union saw further integration  और विस्तार throughout much of यूरोपीय .
The economic growth of the 2000s had considerable  पर्यावरणीय consequences , उठाया माँग लिये घटाते उर्जा संसाधन , और थी स्टिल दिखाया to be vulnerable  as demonstrated during the Global Financial Crisis of the late 2000s .
The Gunfight at the O.K . Corral was a gunfight that took place  at परिचय 3:00 p.m. on बुधवार , अक्तूबर 26 , 1881 , in tombstone , एरिज़ोना territory , और is generally  regarded as the most famous gunfight in the history of the American Old West .
The gunfight  , believed to have lasted तभी परिचय तीस सेकेंड , थी लड़ा between the गैरकानूनी cowboys  Billy Claiborne , Ike and Billy Clanton , and Tom and Frank McLaury , and the opposing town Marshal Virgil Earp and his brothers Assistant Town Marshal Morgan and temporary lawman Wyatt , aided by Doc Holliday designated as a temporary marshal by Virgil .
Ike Clanton and Billy Claiborne ran from the fight unharmed , but Ike 's  bhai बिली clanton थी मारे , साथ साथ दोनो  McLaurys .
Lawmen Virgil and  मॉर्गन earp और दस्तावेज़ हॉलिडे यहूद wounded  .
Only Wyatt Earp came through the  लड़ो unharmed  .
The fight has come to represent a time in American history when the frontier was  खोलें दायरा लिये outlaws opposed by विधि प्रवर्तन कि थी स्प्रेड  thin over vast territories , leaving some areas unprotected .
The gunfight was not well known to the American public until 1931 when author Stuart Lake published  कया रै चूंकि महरूम संकल्पित to be a largely fictionalized जीवनी , व्याट earp : frontier मार्शल , दो सालो बाद earp 's मौत  .
Lake  retold उसके स्टोरी in a 1946 किताब कि निदेशक  John Ford developed into the movie My Darling Clementine .
After the movie Gunfight at the O.K .  corral थी released in 1957 , the गोलीबारी आए  to be known by that name .
Since then , the conflict has been portrayed  साथ varying डिग्री of सटीकता in numerous पश्चिमी films और किताबे  .
Despite its name , the gunfight actually occurred in a  सीमित लॉट छह द्वार वेस्ट of the पश्च प्रवेश to the o.k . corral  on Fremont Street , and also in the street .
the दो opposing पार्टियों  were initially only about apart .
परिचय तीस गोलियाँ यहूद fired  in thirty seconds .
Ike Clanton filed murder  आरोप विरूद्ध the earps और दस्तावेज़ हॉलिडे लकिन वे यहूद आखिरकार exonerated by a लोकल न्यायधीश  after a 30-day preliminary hearing and then again by a local grand jury .
On December 28 , 1881 , Virgil Earp was maimed in an assassination attempt by  the गैरकानूनी cowboys , और on कूच 18 , 1882 , वे assassinated मॉर्गन earp  .
The suspects furnished solid alibis , and newly appointed Deputy U.S . Marshal Wyatt Earp took matters into his own hands during the  earp वेंडेट्टा सवारी , ironically धड़ा by काउंटी शेरिफ जॉनी behan साथ वारंट लिये  the Earp 's arrest .
HDMI ( High-Definition Multimedia Interface ) is a compact audio/video interface for transferring uncompressed  वीडियो आंकड़ा और compressed/uncompressed डिजिटल ऑडियो आंकड़ा इससे a hdmi-compliant यंत्र ( `` the सोर्स यंत्र '' ) to a संगत कंप्यूटर मॉनिटर  , video projector , digital television , or digital audio device .
HDMI  is a डिजिटल बदलना लिये मौजूदा एनालॉग  video standards .
There are a number of HDMI-standard cable connectors available , each of which can be used for any uncompressed TV or PC video format , including  मानक , उन्नत , ऊँची परिभाषा , और 3d वीडियो सिग्नल ; up to 8 चैनल्स of संपीडित or uncompressed डिजिटल ऑडियो ; a cec ( उपभोक्ता इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स कंट्रोल ) कनेक्शन ; और an ईथरनेट आंकड़ा कनेक्शन  .
hdmi implements the eia/cea-861 मानकों , जिससे define वीडियो स्वरुप और waveforms  , transport of compressed , uncompressed , and LPCM audio , auxiliary data , and implementations of the VESA EDID .
The CEC allows HDMI devices to  कंट्रोल प्रत्येक अन्य जब जरुरी और allows  the user to operate multiple devices with one remote control handset .
Because  hdmi is electrically संगत साथ the cea-861 सिग्नल प्रयुक्त by डिजिटल विज़ुअल इंटरफ़ेस ( dvi ) , no सिग्नल  conversion is necessary , nor is there a loss of video quality when a DVI-to-HDMI adapter is used .
As an uncompressed CEA-861 connection , HDMI is  स्वतंत्र of the विभिन्न डिजिटल टेलीविज़न मानकों प्रयुक्त by व्यक्तिगत डिवाइस , ऐसे as atsc और dvb , as ये हैं encapsulations  of compressed MPEG video streams ( which can be decoded and output as an uncompressed video stream on HDMI ) .
Production of  उपभोक्ता hdmi उत्पाद प्रारंभ in लेट  2003 .
In Europe either DVI-HDCP or HDMI is included in the HD ready in-store labeling  specification लिये tv सेट लिये hdtv , प्रतिपादित by eicta साथ ses अस्त्र in  2005 .
hdmi began to appear on उपभोक्ता hdtv camcorders  and digital still cameras in 2006 .
As of  जनवरी 8 , 2013 , जिससे is टेन सालो बाद the रिलीज of the पहला hdmi specification  , over 3 billion HDMI devices have shipped since the launch of the HDMI standard .
ब्री वैन de kamp ( née मेसन ; भी ज्ञात in the श्रेणी as ब्री होज और ब्री वेस्टन ) is a fictional  character and one of the four protagonists on the ABC television series Desperate Housewives .
She is played by actress Marcia Cross ,  जो रै प्राप्त अनेक पुरस्कार और nominations लिये उसके portrayal , सहित an एमी पुरस्कार नामांकन ,  three Golden Globe Award nominations , and two Screen Actors Guild Awards .
Cross  's portrayal of ब्री  has been widely praised by critics and fans .
Cross originally auditioned for the role of Mary  ऐलिस यंग , लकिन श्रेणी निर्माता मार्क चेरी विचार वो थी  better suited for the role of Bree .
Dana Delany , who eventually was cast as Katherine Mayfair , was originally chosen  लिये the भूमिका लकिन turned it bas , saying it थी too समान to उसके भूमिका in pasadena  .
Bree 's main struggle throughout the series has been her attempts to maintain a perfect life  despite विभिन्न बाधाएं ऐसे as widowhood , तलाक , और alcoholism hindering  her .
She has been married three times ; to Rex Van de Kamp ( Steven Culp ) , Orson  होज ( काइल maclachlan ) और ट्रिप  Weston ( Scott Bakula ) .
See  भी the कस्बा of algoma in winnebago  County , Wisconsin .
See also Algoma (  बहुविकल्पी  ) .
Algoma  is a नगर in kewaunee काउंटी  in the U.S. state of Wisconsin .
The  जनसांख्यिकी थी 3,167 at the 2010  census .
Algoma is part of the  ग्रीन खाड़ी महानगर सांख्यिकीय  Area .
The Hangover Part II is a  2011 अमरीकी कॉमेडी फिल्मी उत्पादित by legendary तस्वीरें  and distributed by Warner Bros. Pictures .
It is the sequel  to 2009 's the hangover और  the second film in The Hangover franchise .
Todd Phillips directed the film in addition to  co-authoring the स्क्रिप्ट साथ क्रेग mazin , और scot आर्मस्ट्रांग .
The  फिल्मी सितारों ब्राडली कूपर  , Ed Helms , Zach Galifianakis , Ken Jeong , Jeffrey Tambor , Justin Bartha and Paul Giamatti .
The Hangover Part II tells the story of Phil , Stu , Alan , and  डग as वे सफर to थाईलैंड लिये stu 's  wedding .
After the  स्नातक पार्टी in लास वेगास , stu takes no संभावना और opts  for a safe , subdued pre-wedding brunch .
however , बाते do नहीं go as नियोजित , resulting in another  bad hangover with no memories of the previous night .
विकास of the hangover भाग ii began in अप्रैल  2009 , two months before The Hangover was released .
The  प्रिंसिपल अभिनेताओं यहूद डाल in कूच 2010  to reprise their roles from the first film .
Production began in October 2010 , in  ओंटारियो , कैलिफ़ोर्निया , पहले चलती  on location in Thailand .
The film was released on May  26 , 2011 और , despite receiving ज़्यादातर ऋणात्मक समीक्षाएँ इससे आलोचकों , it became the  highest-grossing R-rated comedy during its theatrical run .
A third  फिल्मी is नियत लिये on  May 24 , 2013 .
Young Man Among Roses , portrait miniature by Nicholas  hilliard , 1588 , v & a  .
believed to be the  Earl of Essex
The Ditchley Portrait of Elizabeth I by the  विदेशी मार्कस gheeraerts the younger  , c.1592
The English Renaissance was a cultural and  कलाकारी गति in इंग्लैण्ड डेटिंग इससे the लेट 15th और जल्दी 16th सदियां to the जल्दी  17th century .
It is  संबद्ध साथ the pan-european पुनर्जागरण कि is प्रायः  regarded as beginning in Italy in the late 14th century .
Like  सबसे of उत्तरी यूरोपीय , इंग्लैण्ड देखी  little of these developments until more than a century later .
The beginning of the English Renaissance is often taken  , as a convenience , to be 1485 , जब the बैटल of bosworth फ़ील्ड ended the युद्धों of  the Roses and inaugurated the Tudor Dynasty .
Renaissance style and ideas , however , were slow in penetrating England , and the  elizabethan era in the दूसरी हाफ of the 16th सदी is प्रायः regarded as the  height of the English Renaissance .
Elizabeth Ann Bloomer  वारेन `` बेट्टी '' घाट ( अप्रैल 8 , 1918 – जुलाई 8 , 2011 ) , थी पहला महिला of the संयुक्त राज्य इससे 1974 to 1977 दौरान  the presidency of her husband Gerald Ford .
As First Lady , she was active in social policy  और निर्मित precedents as a नीतियां क्रियाशील  presidential wife .
Throughout her husband 's term in office , she maintained high  स्वीकृति दरजा despite विपक्ष इससे कुछ रूढ़िवादी republicans जो objected to उसके अधिक मॉडरेट और उदार स्थितियाँ  on social issues .
Ford was noted for raising breast cancer awareness  following उसके 1974 mastectomy और थी a passionate समर्थक of , और activist लिये  , the Equal Rights Amendment ( ERA ) .
Pro-choice on abortion and a leader in the Women 's Movement  , वो gained कीर्ति as एक of the सबसे निष्कपट पहला महिलाओं in इतिहास , commenting on प्रत्येक hot-button समस्या  of the time , including feminism , equal pay , the ERA , sex , drugs , abortion , and gun control .
She also raised awareness of addiction when she  घोषित उसके long-running बैटल साथ alcoholism in the  1970s .
Following  उसके श्वेत हाउस सालो , वो जारी  to lobby for the ERA and remained active in the feminist movement .
She was the founder , and served as the first chair of the board  of निर्देशकों , of the बेट्टी घाट बीच लिये पदार्थ गाली और व्यसन और  is a recipient of the Congressional Gold Medal ( co-presentation with her husband , Gerald R. Ford , October 21 , 1998 ) and the Presidential Medal of Freedom ( alone , presented 1991 , by George H. W. Bush ) .
Platelet endothelial cell adhesion molecule ( PECAM-1 ) also known as cluster of differentiation 31 ( CD31 ) is a  प्रोटीन कि in इंसान is एनकोडेड by the pecam1 जीन मिला on chromosome  17 .
PECAM-1 plays a key role in removing  aged neutrophils इससे the  body .
Jessica  rafalowski , मिस  Florida USA 2008
Jenna  एडवर्ड्स , मिस फ्लोरिडा  USA 2007
Melissa  witek , मिस  Florida USA 2005
Kristen  berset , मिस फ्लोरिडा यूएसए  2004
The Miss Florida USA competition is the  pageant कि selects the प्रतिनिधि लिये the राज्य फ्लोरिडा  in the Miss USA pageant .
While Florida has been successful in terms of runners-up , finalists and  semi-finalists , the राज्य रै never जीती the मिस यूएसए pageant , हालांकि चेरिल patton  became Miss USA after Sylvia Hitchcock won Miss Universe .
Florida  's बेहतरीन परिणाम यहूद दौरान  the mid-1960s to mid-1970s .
Their most recent finalist was  lissette गार्सिया जो लगाई in the  top 16 in 2011 .
Two former Miss Florida Teen USA titleholders have won this  प्रतियोगिता , और तीन titleholders have भी competed  at Miss America .
The current titleholder is  मिशेल aguirre of hialeah  .
Anglo-Saxon England refers to the period of the history of the part of Britain that became known as England , lasting from the end of Roman occupation and  स्थापना of anglo-saxon kingdoms in the 5th सदी जबतक the नॉर्मन conquest of इंग्लैण्ड in 1066 by  William the Conqueror .
Anglo-Saxon is a general term referring to the Germanic peoples who came to  ब्रिटेन दौरान the 5th और 6th सदियां , सहित कोण , saxons  , Frisii , and Jutes .
The term also refers to the language spoken at the time in  इंग्लैण्ड , जिससे is अभी पुकारा बूढ़ा अंग्रेज़ी , और to the संस्कृति of the era ,  which has long attracted popular and scholarly attention .
Until the 9th century Anglo-Saxon England was dominated by the  heptarchy , the kingdoms of नॉर्थम्ब्रिया , mercia , ईस्ट anglia , एसेक्स , केंट  , Sussex , and Wessex .
In terms of religion the kingdoms followed Anglo-Saxon  paganism दौरान the जल्दी काल , लकिन परिवर्तित to christianity  during the 7th century .
Paganism had  a फाइनल stronghold in a काल of mercian आधिपत्य दौरान the 640s , समाप्ति साथ  the death of Penda of Mercia in 655 .
Facing the threat of Viking invasions , the House of Wessex  became प्रबल दौरान the 9th सदी , अंतर्गत the नियम of अल्फ्रेड  the Great .
During the 10th century , the individual kingdoms unified under the  नियम of wessex into the किंगडम of इंग्लैण्ड , जिससे stood opposed to the danelaw , the viking kingdoms स्थापित इससे the 9th सदी in the  north and east of England .
The Kingdom of England fell  in the viking आक्रमण इससे डेनमार्क in 1013 और थी शासित by the हाउस of डेनमार्क जबतक 1042  , when the Anglo-Saxon House of Wessex was restored .
The last  anglo-saxon किंग , हेरोल्ड godwinson , थी मारे in 1066 at the  Battle of Hastings .
lighting a परंपरागत  red brick John Ross Jr kiln
Smoked  सामन is a तैयारी  of salmon , typically a fillet that has been cured and hot or cold smoked .
Due to its moderately high  दाम , स्मोक्ड सामन is माना  a delicacy .
Although  the पद lox is sometimes  applied to smoked salmon , they are different products .
View of  defibrillator एलेक्ट्रोड स्थिति और  placement .
Defibrillation is a common treatment  लिये life-threatening हृदय dysrhythmias , ventricular  fibrillation , and pulseless ventricular tachycardia .
Defibrillation consists of delivering a therapeutic dose of electrical  उर्जा to the प्रभावित दिल साथ a यंत्र पुकारा a defibrillator  .
इस depolarizes a नाजुक द्रव्यमान of the दिल मांसपेशी , terminates the dysrhythmia , और allows सामान्य  sinus rhythm to be reestablished by the body 's natural pacemaker , in the sinoatrial node of the heart .
defibrillators can be बाह्य , transvenous , or implanted  , depending on the type of device used or needed .
Some external units , known as automated external  defibrillators ( aeds ) , automate the निदान of treatable लय , अर्थ कि lay responders or bystanders हैं समर्थ  to use them successfully with little , or in some cases no training at all .
gabrielle `` कोको '' bonheur चैनल ( अगस्त 19 , 1883 – जनवरी  10 , 1971 ) was a French fashion designer and founder of the Chanel brand .
She was  the तभी फ़ैशन पंक्तियां to appear on समय पत्रिका 's सूची of the 100 सबसे influential  people of the 20th century .
Along with Paul Poiret , Chanel was credited with liberating women from the constraints  of the `` corseted silhouette '' और popularizing the स्वीकृति of  a sportive , casual chic as the feminine standard in the post- World War I era .
A prolific  फ़ैशन निर्माता , चैनल 's  influence extended beyond couture clothing .
Her design  aesthetic थी एहसास in आभूषण , हैंडबैग  , and fragrance .
Her signature scent ,  चैनल no . 5 , रै become an  iconic product .
Chanel was known for her lifelong  determination , महत्वाकांक्षा और उर्जा जिससे वो लागू  to her professional and social life .
She achieved both success as a businesswoman and social  prominence धन्यवाद to the कनेक्शन्स वो बना through  her work .
These included many artists and  craftspeople to जिसको वो became a  patron .
However , Chanel 's highly competitive , opportunistic personality led her to make questionable life choices which  have उत्पन्न विवाद around उसके प्रतिष्ठा , विशेषकर उसके आचरण दौरान the  German occupation of France in World War II .
Allied Mills flour mill  on the बैंको of  the Manchester Ship Canal
A gristmill (  भी : grist मिल , मकई मिल or आटा  mill ) grinds grain into flour .
The term can refer to both  the पीस यांत्रिकी और the  building that holds it .
Romania ( ; dated spellings  roumania और rumania ; ) is a देश स्तिथ  at the intersection of Central and Southeastern Europe , bordering on the Black Sea .
Romania shares a border with Hungary and Serbia to the west , Ukraine and  moldova to the पूर्वोत्तर और ईस्ट , और बुल्गारिया to the दक्षिण .
At , Romania is the eighth largest country of the European Union by area , and has the  सातवाँ largest जनसांख्यिकी of the यूरोपीय संघ साथ अधिक than 19 लाख लोगों  .
Its  पूंजी और biggest नगर is बुखारेस्ट  , the 11th largest city in the EU .
The United  principalities उभरा जब the territories of moldavia और wallachia यहूद संयुक्त  under Prince Alexander Ioan Cuza in 1859 .
In 1866 Prince Karl of  hohenzollern-sigmaringen थी पुकारा to the सिंहासन as the सत्ताधारी प्रिंस of the रोमानियाई principate और in 1881 he  was finally crowned as King Carol I the first monarch of the Kingdom of Romania .
Independence from the Ottoman Empire was declared on 9 May 1877 , and was  internationally पहचाना  the following year .
At the end of World War I , Transylvania , Bukovina and  bessarabia संयुक्त साथ the किंगडम of रोमानिया .
World War II gave cause to the rise of a military dictatorship in Romania under fascist General Ion  antonescu , जो chose to लड़ो on the पक्ष of the अक्ष शक्तियां इससे 1941 to 1944  .
After his removal ,  रोमानिया switched पहलू in 1944 और joined  the Allies .
by the समाप्त of the युद्ध , कुछ formerly रोमानियाई northeastern territories यहूद occupied by  the Soviet Union , with Red Army units stationed on Romanian soil .
In 1947 Romania forcibly became a People 's Republic ( 1947-1965  ) और a सदस्य of the  Warsaw Pact .
In 1965 Nicolae Ceauşescu became General Secretary of the Romanian Communist  पार्टी , और the हर्ष austerity उपायों , राजनैतिक दमन , और cult of व्यक्तित्व he implemented led to the समाजवादी गणतंत्र  of Romania ( 1965-1989 ) becoming the most Stalinist police state in the Eastern bloc .
Eventually his authoritarian  सरकारी थी toppled in दिसम्बर 1989 दौरान the  Romanian Revolution of 1989 .
With the  पतन of the आयरन पर्दा , रोमानिया began  its transition towards democracy and a capitalist market economy .
After a decade of  post-revolution आर्थिक समस्याएं और living-standards मनाही , extensive  reforms fostered economic recovery .
As of 2010 , Romania is an upper-middle-income  देश साथ a ऊँची इंसान विकास  index .
Romania joined NATO on  29 कूच 2004 , और the यूरोपीय  Union on 1 January 2007 .
It is also a member of the :  लैटिन संघ , francophonie , osce , wto , bsec  , United Nations , etc .
Today , Romania is a unitary  semi-presidential गणतंत्र , in जिससे the कार्यपालिका शाखा consists of the अध्यक्ष  and the Government .
``  प्राचीन '' redirects  here .
For other  उपयोग , देखिए प्राचीनता ( बहुविकल्पी  ) .
The times before  लिखने belong either to protohistory  or to prehistory .
Khafre 's Pyramid ( 4th  राजवंश ) और ग्रेट sphinx of गीज़ा ( c. 2500 bc or शायद  earlier )
प्राचीन इतिहास is the पढ़ाई of the लिखा पास्ट इससे the शुरूआत  of recorded human history to the Early Middle Ages .
The  स्पैन of अंकित इतिहास is roughly 5,000 सालो , साथ cuneiform स्क्रिप्ट , the oldest खोजा  form of coherent writing , from the protoliterate period around the 30th century BC .
This is the beginning of history , as opposed to prehistory , according to  the परिभाषा प्रयुक्त by सबसे इतिहासकारों  .
The term  शास्त्रीय प्राचीनता is प्रायः प्रयुक्त to refer to इतिहास in the बूढ़ा संसार इससे the शुरूआत of अंकित  Greek history in 776 BC ( First Olympiad ) .
This roughly coincides with the  परंपरागत तिथि of the founding of रोम in 753 bc , the शुरूआत of the इतिहास of प्राचीन रोम , और the  beginning of the Archaic period in Ancient Greece .
Although the ending date of  प्राचीन इतिहास is विवादित , कुछ पश्चिमी विद्वानों उपयोग the पतन of the पश्चिमी रोमन साम्राज्य in 476 ad , the closure  of the Platonic Academy in 529 AD , the death of the emperor Justinian I , the coming of Islam or the rise of Charlemagne as the end of ancient and Classical European history .
In India , the  काल शामिल the जल्दी काल of the मध्य kingdoms , और , in चीन , the  time up to the Qin Dynasty is included .
Methylcobalamin (  दिखाया ) is a रूप of विटामिन  B12 .
Physically it resembles  the अन्य फ़ॉर्म of विटामिन b12 , occurring as अंधेरा रेड crystals  that freely form cherry-colored transparent solutions in water .
Vitamin B12 , vitamin B12 or vitamin B-12 , also  पुकारा cobalamin , is a water-soluble विटामिन साथ a कुंजी भूमिका in the सामान्य कामकाज of the दिमाग  and nervous system , and for the formation of blood .
It is  एक of the आठ  B vitamins .
It  is सामान्यतः शामिल in the चयापचय of प्रत्येक कोशिका of the इंसान देह , विशेषकर  affecting DNA synthesis and regulation , but also fatty acid synthesis and energy production .
Neither fungi ,  पौधे , nor पशु हैं सक्षम of producing  vitamin B12 .
Only bacteria and  आर्किया have the एंजाइमों  required for its synthesis , although many foods are a natural source of B12 because of bacterial symbiosis .
The vitamin is the largest and most structurally  जटिल विटामिन और can be उत्पादित industrially तभी through बैक्टीरियल  fermentation-synthesis .
Vitamin B12 consists of a class of  chemically सम्बन्धित यौगिकों ( vitamers ) , सब of  which have vitamin activity .
It contains the  biochemically विरल तत्व  cobalt .
जैवसंश्लेषण of the मौलिक ढांचा of the विटामिन is संपन्नता तभी by जीवाणु ( जिससे प्रायः  produce hydroxocobalamin ) , but conversion between different forms of the vitamin can be accomplished in the human body .
A common semi-synthetic form of the vitamin , cyanocobalamin , does not occur in nature , but is produced from bacterial  hydroxocobalamin और तब प्रयुक्त in अनेक दवाएँ और पूरक , और as a खाना योगात्मक , क्युकी of इसके स्थिरता और निम्नतर उत्पादन लागत  .
In  the देह it is परिवर्तित to the इंसान physiological फ़ॉर्म methylcobalamin  and adenosylcobalamin , leaving behind the cyanide , albeit in minimal concentration .
More recently , hydroxocobalamin , methylcobalamin , and adenosylcobalamin can be found in more  महंगी pharmacological उत्पाद और खाना  supplements .
The extra utility of  ये is फिलहाल debated  .
विटामिन b12 थी खोजा इससे इसके संबंध to the बीमारी घातक रक्ताल्पता , जिससे is an असंक्राम्य  disease in which parietal cells of the stomach responsible for secreting intrinsic factor are destroyed .
मूलभूत फ़ैक्टर is निर्णायक लिये the सामान्य अवशोषण of b12 , so  a lack of intrinsic factor , as seen in pernicious anemia , causes a vitamin B12 deficiency .
Many other subtler kinds of vitamin B12  कमियां और उनके biochemical प्रभाव have चूंकि महरूम elucidated  .
The Roman Empire ( ) was the post- Republican period of the ancient Roman  सभ्यता , characterised by an निरंकुश रूप of सरकारी और विशाल territorial  holdings around the Mediterranean in Europe , Africa , and Asia .
The 500-year-old Roman Republic , which preceded  it , था महरूम destabilized through  a series of civil wars .
अनेक कार्यक्रम चिह्नित the परिवर्तन इससे गणतंत्र to साम्राज्य , सहित जूलियस सीज़र 's नियुक्ति as perpetual तानाशाह ( 44 bc ) ; the  Battle of Actium ( 31 BC ) ; and the granting of the honorific Augustus to Octavian by the Roman Senate ( 27 BC ) .
the पहला दो सदियां of the साम्राज्य यहूद a काल of unprecedented स्थिरता और समृद्धि  known as the Pax Romana ( `` Roman Peace '' ) .
It  पहुँचे इसके महानतम expanse दौरान  the reign of Trajan ( 98–117 AD ) .
In the 3rd century , the Empire underwent a crisis that threatened its  अस्तित्व , लकिन थी reunified और stabilized अंतर्गत the emperors aurelian और diocletian  .
Christians rose to power in the 4th  सदी , दौरान जिससे समय a प्रणाली of डुअल नियम थी  developed in the Latin West and Greek East .
After the  पतन of सेंट्रल सरकारी in the वेस्ट in the 5th  century , the eastern half continued as what would later be known as the Byzantine Empire .
Because of the Empire 's vast extent and long endurance , the institutions and culture of Rome had a profound and lasting influence on the development of language , religion , architecture ,  दर्शनशास्त्र , विधि , और फ़ॉर्म of सरकारी in the territory it governed , विशेषकर यूरोपीय , और by अर्थात् of यूरोपीय expansionism throughout  the modern world .
कुल देह सतह क्षेत्रफल ( tbsa ) is an  assessment measure of burns of the skin .
In adults , the `` rule of nines  '' is प्रयुक्त to determine the कुल प्रतिशत of क्षेत्रफल burned  for each major section of the body .
in कुछ मामले , the burns may कवर अधिक than एक देह भाग , or may नहीं fully कवर ऐसे a भाग ; in ये  cases , burns are measured by using the casualty 's palm as a reference point for 1 % of the body .
For children and infants , the  lund-browder चार्ट is प्रयुक्त to assess the burned  body surface area .
Different percentages are used  क्युकी the अनुपात of the संयुक्त सतह क्षेत्रफल of the सिर और गर्दन to the सतह क्षेत्रफल of the limbs  is typically larger in children than that of an adult .
Typical values for  आम समूह of इंसानो  follow .
( Due to  rounding , मान may नहीं add  to 100 % . )
World infant  मृत्यु दरों by पाँच सालो  averages in 2008 .
This is a list of  देशों by शिशु मृत्यु  rate .
Jonah Kirsten Sorrentino ( born June  26 , 1975 ) , बेहतर ज्ञात by उसके स्टेज नाम kj-52  , is a Christian rapper from Tampa , Florida .
The `` KJ '' part of his name refers to his old rap alias , `` King J. Mac , '' a  नाम जिससे he बाद वर्णित in एक of उसके podcasts as `` horribly घटिया . ''
`` 52 '' , which is pronounced `` five two '' , not `` fifty-two '' , is a reference to the Biblical story of Jesus feeding the multitude with five loaves and two fish , which is also sung  परिचय in उसके सोंग `` धक्का up '' इससे the yearbook और in the `` kj पाँच दो '' on it 's सुनाया 'five  Two .
He was awarded the Rap/Hip Hop Recorded Song of the Year for  `` never dekh दूर '' और rap/hip हॉप एल्बम of the साल at the  GMA Dove Awards of 2007 .
On July 28 , 2009 , KJ-52 released `` End  of my रस्सी '' , जिससे is the पहला सिंगल लिये उसके एल्बम  Five-Two Television .
उसके सोंग `` डिअर पतला '' is आधारित on एमिनेम  's song `` Stan `` and is a sort of personal message from KJ-52 to Eminem .
The degree symbol ( ° ) is a  typographical प्रतीक कि is प्रयुक्त , among अन्य बाते , to represent डिग्री of चाप ( e.g . in भौगोलिक निर्देशांक प्रणालियों ) , घंटों  ( in the medical field ) , or degrees of temperature .
The  प्रतीक consists of a छोटी उठाया वृत्त  , historically a zero glyph .
in युनिकोड  it is encoded at .
This is a list of roots ,  प्रत्यय , और prefixes प्रयुक्त in चिकित्सा शब्दावली  , their meanings , and their etymology .
There are  a few नियम जब using  medical roots .
Firstly , prefixes and suffixes ,  primarily in यूनानी , लकिन भी in लैटिन  , have a droppable -o- .
As a general rule , this -o- almost  सदा अधिनियमों as a joint-stem to कनेक्ट दो consonantal जड़ें , e.g . arthr-  + -o- + logy = arthrology .
But generally , the -o- is dropped when connecting to a vowel-stem ; e.g . arthr-  + itis = गठिया , बजाय of arthr-o-itis  .
Secondly , medical roots  generally go साथ according to भाषा  : Greek prefixes go with Greek suffixes and Latin prefixes with Latin suffixes .
Although international scientific vocabulary is not stringent about  segregating combining फ़ॉर्म of अलग भाषाएं , it is advisable जब coining नई  words not to mix different lingual roots .
Stomach cancer , or gastric cancer , refers to cancer  arising इससे कोई भाग of the पेट  .
Stomach cancer causes  परिचय 800,000 मौतों विश्वव्यापी  per year .
Prognosis is poor ( 5-year  अस्तित्व < 5 to 15 % ) क्युकी सबसे मरीजों उपस्थित साथ उन्नत  disease .
Sara Lynn Evans  ( born फ़रवरी 5 , 1971 ) is an अमरीकी  country singer and songwriter .
For her entire  करियर , वो रै महरूम हस्ताक्षरित to आरसीए रिकॉर्ड  Nashville .
Evans ' debut , Three  मदारी और the सच्चाई , किया नहीं उपज  a Top 40 hit on the Hot Country Songs charts .
She followed this up with No Place That Far ( 1998 ) , Born to Fly (  2000 ) , बेचैन ( 2003 ) और रियल ठीक प्लेस ( 2005  ) .
No Place That  दूर प्राप्त a सुनहरा प्रमाणन इससे the रिकॉर्डिंग  Industry Association of America ( RIAA ) , while the other three albums all were certified platinum .
These discs include the number 1 singles `` No Place That Far `` , `` Born to Fly `` , `` Suds in  the बाल्टी `` और `` a रियल ठीक प्लेस to प्रारंभ `` , प्लस the शीर्ष 10 हिट्स ``  I Could Not Ask for More `` ( a cover of the Edwin McCain song ) , `` I Keep Looking `` , `` Perfect `` and `` Cheatin ' `` .
Her 2007 Greatest Hits included the top 15  हिट्स `` तुम 'll सदा be my baby `` और ``  As If `` .
Stronger ( 2011 ) included her fifth number 1 hit , `` A Little Bit  stronger `` , जिससे थी co-written by हिलेरी स्कॉट of महिला  Antebellum .
Evans has also won one award each from  बिलबोर्ड , the अकादमी of देश म्यूज़िक , देश म्यूज़िक संघ , ब्रॉडकास्ट  Music Incorporated ( BMI ) and a Dove Award .
The world 's principal religions and spiritual  परंपराओं may be वर्गीकृत into a छोटी क्रमांक of प्रमुख समूह  , although this is by no means a uniform practice .
This theory began in the  18th सदी साथ the लक्ष्य of recognizing the सापेक्ष स्तर of  civility in societies .
Berliners  watching a c-54 जमीन at tempelhof  Airport ( 1948 )
The Berlin blockade ( 24 June 1948 – 12 May 1949 ) was one of the first major  अंतरराष्ट्रीय crises of the ठंडा युद्ध  .
During the  बहुराष्ट्रीय occupation of post–world युद्ध ii जर्मनी , the सोवियत संघ अवरोधित the पश्चिमी allies  ' railway , road , and canal access to the sectors of Berlin under Allied control .
Their aim was to force the western powers to allow the Soviet zone to start supplying Berlin with food  और ईंधन , thereby giving the soviets व्यावहारिक कंट्रोल over the संपूर्ण  city .
In response , the Western  allies व्यवस्थित the बर्लिन एयरलिफ्ट to  carry supplies to the people in West Berlin .
Aircrews from the United States Air Force , the British Royal Air Force , the Royal Australian Air Force , the Royal Canadian Air Force , the Royal New Zealand Air Force , and the South African Air Force  उड़ाया over 200,000 फ़्लाइट in एक साल , providing up to 4700 टन of रोज़ necessities ऐसे as ईंधन और खाना  to the Berliners .
By the spring of 1949 , the effort was  clearly succeeding और , by अप्रैल , the एयरलिफ्ट थी delivering अधिक कार्गो than था previously  been transported into the city by rail .
The success of the Berlin Airlift brought  शर्मिंदगी to the soviets जो था refused to मानना  it could make a difference .
The  नाकेबंदी थी lifted in may 1949 और resulted in the  creation of two separate German states .
The  संघीय गणतंत्र of जर्मनी ( वेस्ट जर्मनी ) और  the German Democratic Republic ( East Germany ) split up Berlin .
In  स्मरण of the एयरलिफ्ट , तीन एयरपोर्ट in the पूर्व पश्चिमी zones of the  city served as the primary gateways to Germany for another fifty years .
The  यूरोपियन चिह्न ; logotype और  handwritten .
The  यूरोपियन चिह्न is the करेंसी चिह्न प्रयुक्त लिये the यूरोपियन  , the official currency of the Eurozone in the European Union ( EU ) .
the डिज़ाइन थी प्रस्तुत to the पब्लिक by the  European Commission on 12 December 1996 .
The international  three-letter कोड ( according  to ISO standard ISO 4217 ) for the euro is EUR .
In Unicode it  is एनकोडेड at .
In English , the sign  precedes the  value .
In some  styleguides , लकिन नहीं अन्य , the यूरोपियन  sign is unspaced .
Mate ( , ; sometimes also  spelled maté ) , भी ज्ञात as chimarrão ( ) or cimarrón ( ) , is a परंपरागत दक्षिण अमरीकी  infused drink , particularly in Argentina , Uruguay , Paraguay and the southern states of Brazil and to a lesser degree in south of Chile , the Bolivian Chaco , Syria and Lebanon .
it is prepared इससे  steeping dried leaves of yerba mate ( llex paraguariensis , known in Portuguese as erva-mate ) in hot water .
Mate is  परोसा साथ a मेटल स्ट्रॉ इससे a साझा  hollow calabash gourd .
The straw is called a  bombilla in कुछ लैटिन अमरीकी देशों , a bomba in पुर्तगाली  , and a bombija or , more generally , a masassa ( type of straw ) in Arabic .
The straw is  traditionally बना of  silver .
Modern , commercially available straws are  typically बना of निकल चांदी , पुकारा alpaca ;  stainless steel , or hollow-stemmed cane .
The gourd is known as a mate or a guampa ; while  in ब्राज़ील , it रै the विशिष्ट नाम of cuia , or भी cabaça ( the नाम लिये indigenous-influenced calabash gourds in अन्य regions of ब्राज़ील  , still used for general food and drink in remote regions ) .
Even if the water is supplied  इससे a आधुनिक thermos , the infusion is traditionally नशे  from mates or cuias .
As with other brewed herbs , yerba mate leaves are dried ,  कटा , और मैदान into a powdery मिश्रण पुकारा yerba  .
The  bombilla अधिनियमों as दोनो  a straw and a sieve .
The submerged end is flared , with  छोटी छेद or स्लॉट कि allow the brewed द्रव in , लकिन ब्लाक the चंकी पदार्थ  that makes up much of the mixture .
A modern bombilla design uses a straight tube  साथ छेद , or वसन्त स्लीव to अधिनियम  as a sieve .
`` Tea-bag  '' प्रकार infusions of mate ( mate cocido ) have महरूम on the मार्केट in अर्जेंटीना , पैराग्वे और उरुग्वे लिये अनेक सालो अंतर्गत ऐसे व्यापार names  as `` Taragüí Vitality '' in Argentina , `` Pajarito '' and `` Kurupí '' in Paraguay , and in Brazil under the name `` Mate Leão '' .
This is considered  a completely अलग  drink .
It is never  नशे इससे cuias or पुकारा chimarrão  , nor is it associated with the gaucho/gaúcho culture .
The automotive industry is a term that covers a wide range of companies and organisations involved in the design ,  विकास , manufacture , विपणन , और selling of मोटर वाहनों , towed वाहनों , मोटरसाइकिल और  mopeds .
It is one  of the संसार 's सबसे महत्वपूर्ण आर्थिक  sectors by revenue .
The term automotive industry usually does not include industries dedicated to  the मेंटेनेंस of ऑटोमोबाइल following डिलीवरी to the end-user , ऐसे as मरम्मत दुकानें और मोटर ईंधन भरना  stations .
The term automotive was created from Greek autos ( self ) , and Latin  motivus ( of गति ) to represent कोई रूप of self-powered  vehicle .
इस पद थी प्रस्तावित  by SAE member Elmer Sperry .
David Michael `` Dave '' Bautista , Jr. ( born January 18 , 1969 ) , is an American mixed martial artist , bodybuilder  , कर्ता , और पूर्व पेशेवर पहलवान बेहतरीन ज्ञात लिये उसके समय in संसार कुश्ती entertainment  competing under the ring name Batista .
In WWE , he became a six-time world champion , winning the  संसार हेवीवेट चैंपियनशिप चार टाइम्स , और the डब्ल्यूडब्ल्यूई चैंपियनशिप  two times .
He is the longest-reigning World  हेवीवेट चैंपियन in डब्ल्यूडब्ल्यूई इतिहास  .
In addition to these championships , Batista has  जीती the संसार टैग टोली चैंपियनशिप तीन टाइम्स ( twice साथ ric फ्लेयर और एकबार साथ जॉन सीना )  and the WWE Tag Team Championship once ( with Rey Mysterio ) .
Batista was also the winner of the 2005 Royal Rumble match and went on to headline WrestleMania 21  , एक of the शीर्ष पाँच highest-grossing pay-per-view कार्यक्रम in प्रो कुश्ती इतिहास  .
After trying out at World Championship Wrestling 's Power Plant , Batista signed a contract with the WWF in 2000 and was sent  to इसके developmental territory , ओहियो घाटी कुश्ती ( ovw ) , जहाँ he जीती the ovw हेवीवेट चैंपियनशिप  .
In August 2012 , Bautista signed  a अनुबंध साथ क्लासिक entertainment & खेल to लड़ो in  mixed martial arts .
He won his MMA debut on October 6 , 2012 , defeating Vince  lucero via tko in  the first round .
Henry T. Thomas  sampson , jr. ( born in जैक्सन , मिसिसिपी in 1934  ) is an African-American inventor .
he ग्रैजुएट इससे ऊँची स्कूल in 1951 इससे lanier  High School in Jackson , Mississippi .
He then attended Morehouse College for a couple of  सालो पहले transferring to purdue विश्वविद्यालयों जहाँ he became a सदस्य of the  Omega Psi Phi fraternity .
He received a Bachelor 's degree in science  इससे purdue विश्वविद्यालयों in 1956  .
He  ग्रैजुएट साथ an ms उपाधि in अभियान्त्रिकी  from the University of California , Los Angeles in 1961 .
Sampson also received his MS in Nuclear Engineering from  the विश्वविद्यालयों of इलिनोइस urbana-champaign in 1965 , और उसके phd  in 1967 .
He  is the पहला अफ़्रीकी अमरीकी to earn a ph.d.in  Nuclear Engineering in the United States .
Some of his  accomplishments शामिल होने a सदस्य of the संयुक्त राज्य नेवी between the सालो 1962 और 1964 और  earning an Atomic Energy Commission honor between 1964 and 1967 .
Later he was awarded the  ब्लैक चित्र पुरस्कार इससे  Aerospace Corporation in 1982 .
He was awarded  the अश्वेतों in अभियान्त्रिकी , लागू विज्ञान पुरस्कार , और पुरस्कार लिये शिक्षा  , by the Los Angeles Council of Black Professional Engineers in 1983 .
In June 2007 , Sampson  थी शादीशुदा to लौरा howzell  Young in St. Thomas , U.S. Virgin Islands .
Young-Sampson is a professor in the College of Education at  कैलिफ़ोर्निया राज्य विश्वविद्यालयों सैन bernardino .
रॉबर्ट लेन गिब्स ( born कूच  29 , 1971 ) is a senior campaign adviser for US President Barack Obama .
Previously , he  थी the 28th श्वेत हाउस दबायें सचिव  .
Gibbs was the  संचार निदेशक लिये then- u.s . सीनेटर ओबामा और उसके  2008 presidential campaign .
Gibbs , who has worked with Obama since 2004 , was press secretary of John Kerry 's 2004 presidential campaign and has previously specialized in Senate campaigns , having served as communications director for the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee and for four  व्यक्तिगत सीनेट अभियान , सहित those of ओबामा in 2004 और फ्रिट्ज़ hollings  in 1998 .
गिब्स थी भी the दबायें  secretary of Representative Bob Etheridge .
On November 22 , 2008 , Gibbs was announced as  the दबायें सचिव of the ओबामा प्रशासन  .
He assumed the  भूमिका of दबायें सचिव on जनवरी 20 , 2009 , और दिया उसके  first official briefing on January 22 .
On January 5 , 2011  , गिब्स घोषित कि he होता छोड़ the श्वेत  House to become an outside adviser to the administration .
He left  on फ़रवरी 11  , 2011 .
on फ़रवरी 12 , 2013 , it थी घोषित कि  Gibbs had been hired as a contributor for cable-news channel MSNBC .
His first appearance was on the same  रात्रि prior to the 2013 राज्य of the संघ  Address .
Armando Pérez ( born January 15 ,  1981 ) , बेहतर ज्ञात by उसके स्टेज नाम pitbull  , is an American rapper , songwriter , and record producer .
His first  अंकित प्रदर्शन थी इससे the लील  Jon album Kings of Crunk in 2002 .
In 2004 , he released his debut  एल्बम titled m.i.a.m.i . ( छोटी लिये धन  Is A Major Issue ) under TVT Records .
Since then , he has  released तीन अन्य एल्बम अंतर्गत the लेबल : el  Mariel in 2006 , The Boatlift in 2007 , and Planet Pit in 2011 .
He released  rebelution in 2009 , जिससे शामिल singles  `` I Know You Want Me ( Calle Ocho ) `` and `` Krazy `` .
The latter peaked at No . 30 on the Hot 100 and No . 11 on the Hot Rap  ट्रैक्स चार्ट जबकि `` i जान तुम want me '' peaked at no . 2 on the hot 100 और  peaked within the top ten spots of charts in the UK , Canada , Italy , and the Netherlands .
The song reached No . 1 in France and the  यूरोपीय hot 100 on the सप्ताह समाप्ति अगस्त 29 , 2009 according  to Billboard magazine .
He later signed with Polo Grounds Music  through सोनी म्यूज़िक और निर्मित उसके अपना लेबल mr.  305 Inc .
Another single  इससे rebelution थी `` होटल रूम सेवा  `` , which peaked at No . 8 on the Hot 100 .
Rebelution went on to sell  over 7.5 लाख विश्वव्यापी डिजिटल singles और  albums combined .
Nevertheless ,  he dropped a तोड़ पुकारा `` दे me सबकुछ  '' which reached # 1 worldwide , and featured artists Ne-yo , Nayer , and Afrojack .
He has also performed as a featured artist in the remixes of many other hit  गीतों , जैसे tik टोक , चीख & चिल्लाओ , lo hecho esta hecho , ख़राब , papi , ईंट  , How Low , Tonight ( I 'm Lovin ' You ) , Video Phone , Over To You Now and Bumpy Ride .
Pérez is also the host of his own Spanish-language program on the cable  चैनल mun2 titled la esquina ( स्पेनी लिये the कोने  ) .
In 2005 Pérez and rapper Sean 'Diddy '  combs co-founded ख़राब लड़के लातीनी , a subsidiary of combs '  Bad Boy Records label .
It primarily  focuses on लैटिन हिप हॉप , लैटिन आत्मा , लैटिन पॉप और अन्य  Tropical music , and has offices in New York and Miami , Florida .
साथ साथ co-founding it , pérez फिलहाल heads  the A & R division of the label .
Pérez has become a product endorser , representing alongside Drake , Rihanna , and Trey Songz the “So Kodak” campaign for the  कोडक ब्रांड और embarking on a साझेदारी साथ the नरम पेय दानव dr pepper as भाग of the अभियान “ विदा  23 ” for which he recorded the song specifically featured on his album Armando .
Pitbull also announced he has become the  प्रवक्ता लिये voli वोदका , in जिससे he holds a बहुमत इक्विटी हिस्सेदारी , और budweiser  has chosen Pitbull to promote its Bud Light line of beer .
The commercials  फिलहाल हाइलाइट pitbull नाचना और  gyrating on stage holding up a bottle of Bud Light .
Pitbull has also  खरीदा an इक्विटी हिस्सेदारी in मियामी subs  Pizza and Grill .
Halloween or Hallowe'en ( a  संकुचन of `` सब hallows ' संध्या `` ) , भी ज्ञात as सब hallows ' संध्या , is a वार्षिक जश्न observed in a क्रमांक of देशों on अक्तूबर 31 , the संध्या of the पश्चिमी  Christian feast of All Hallows ( or All Saints ) and the day initiating the triduum of Hallowmas .
According to many scholars , All Hallows ' Eve is a Christianised feast originally  बहकावे by पश्चिमी यूरोपीय कटाई त्यौहार , और त्यौहार of the मुर्दे साथ संभावित pagan जड़ें  , particularly the Celtic Samhain .
Other scholars maintain that it  originated independently of samhain और रै solely  Christian roots .
Typical festive Halloween activities include trick-or-treating ( also known as `` guising `` ) , attending costume parties  , नक्काशी pumpkins into jack-o'-lanterns , lighting bonfires , ठहराना bobbing , visiting haunted आकर्षण , playing  pranks , telling scary stories , and watching horror films .
Freedom of speech is the political right to communicate one 's opinions and ideas  using एक 's देह और प्रॉपर्टी to anyone  who is willing to receive them .
The  पद स्वतंत्रता of अभिव्यक्ति is sometimes प्रयुक्त synonymously , लकिन  includes any act of seeking , receiving and imparting information or ideas , regardless of the medium used .
In practice , the right to freedom of speech is not absolute in any country and the right is commonly subject to limitations , as with libel ,  बदनामी , obscenity , राजद्रोह ( सहित , लिये उदाहरण inciting जातीय द्वेष ) , कापीराइट उल्लंघन , रहस्योद्घाटन of सूचना कि is  classified or otherwise .
The right to freedom of expression is recognized as a human right under Article 19 of the Universal  घोषणा of इंसान अधिकारों और पहचाना in अंतरराष्ट्रीय इंसान अधिकारों विधि in the अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Covenant on Civil and Political Rights ( ICCPR ) .
Article 19 of the ICCPR states that `` [ e ] veryone shall have the right to hold opinions without interference '' and `` everyone shall have the right to freedom of expression  ; इस सही shall शामिल स्वतंत्रता to तलाश , प्राप्त और impart सूचना और विचार of सब kinds , regardless of frontiers , either orally , in लिखने or in छपाई , in the रूप of  art , or through any other media of his choice '' .
Article 19 goes on to say that the exercise of these rights carries `` special duties and responsibilities ``  और may `` इसलिए be विषय to निश्चित प्रतिबंध '' जब जरुरी `` [ f ] or आदर of the अधिकारों or प्रतिष्ठा of अन्य ''  or `` [ f ] or the protection of national security or of public order ( order public ) , or of public health or morals '' .
Freedom of  वाक may be legally curtailed in कुछ धार्मिक विधिक प्रणालियों  and in secular jurisdictions where it is found to cause religious offense , such as the British Racial and Religious Hatred Act 2006 .
Sydney  harbour इससे the एयर , प्रर्दशित the ओपेरा हाउस , the सीबीडी , गोलाकार quay , the सेतु , the  Parramatta River , North Sydney and Kirribilli in the foreground
The Sydney Harbour Bridge is a steel through arch bridge across Sydney Harbour that carries rail , vehicular , bicycle and  पैदल ट्रैफ़िक between the सिडनी सेंट्रल  business district ( CBD ) and the North Shore .
The dramatic view of the  सेतु , the harbour , और the आसपास सिडनी ओपेरा हाउस is an iconic चित्र  of Sydney , New South Wales , and Australia .
The  सेतु is nicknamed `` the  Coathanger '' because of its arch-based design .
Under the directions of Dr  j.j.c . bradfield of the nsw विभाग of पब्लिक works , the सेतु थी designed और निर्मित by अंग्रेजों कड़ dorman long  and Co Ltd of Middlesbrough and opened in 1932 .
The bridge 's design was influenced by  the नरक फाटक सेतु in नई  York .
It was the world 's widest  long-span सेतु , at 48.8 मीटर ( 160 फीट ) चौड़ी , जबतक  construction of the new Port Mann Bridge in Vancouver .
It is also the fifth longest spanning-arch bridge in the world ,  और it is the tallest स्टील मेहराब सेतु , measuring इससे शीर्ष to जल स्तर  .
Until 1967 the Harbour Bridge  थी सिडनी 's tallest ढांचा  .
The  हवाई हॉटस्पॉट is a volcanic हॉटस्पॉट  located near the namesake Hawaiian Islands , in the northern Pacific Ocean .
One of the most well-known and heavily studied hotspots in the world ,  the हवाई plume is जिम्मेदार लिये the सृष्टि of the हवाई – सम्राट seamount कड़ी , an over 5,800 किलोमीटर ( 3,600 mi ) long कड़ी of ज्वालामुखी , चार of जिससे हैं क्रियाशील , दो of जिससे हैं dormant , और अधिक than  123 of which are extinct , many having since been ground beneath the waves by erosion as seamounts and atolls .
The chain extends from  दक्षिण of the द्वीप of हवाई to the किनारे  of the Aleutian Trench , near the eastern edge of Russia .
While most volcanoes are created by geological activity at tectonic plate boundaries , the Hawaii hotspot is located far from nearby plate boundaries ; the classic  हॉटस्पॉट सिद्धान्त , पहला प्रस्तावित in 1963 by जॉन tuzo विल्सन , proposes कि a सिंगल , फिक्स्ड mantle plume builds ज्वालामुखी कि तब , काटें बंद इससे उनके सोर्स by the गति  of the Pacific Plate , become increasingly inactive and eventually erode below sea level over millions of years .
According to  इस सिद्धान्त , the nearly 60° बेंड separating the सम्राट और हवाई खण्ड  of the chain was caused by a sudden shift in the movement of the Pacific Plate .
In 2003 , fresh investigations of this irregularity led to the proposal of a mobile hotspot theory , suggesting that hotspots are mobile , not fixed ,  और कि the 47 लाख साल बूढ़ा बेंड थी caused by  a shift in the hotspot 's motion rather than the plate 's .
Ancient Hawaiians were the first to recognize  the increasing आयु और weathered राज्य of the ज्वालामुखी to the उत्तर as वे progressed  on fishing expeditions along the islands .
The volatile state of the Hawaiian volcanoes and their  निरंतर बैटल साथ the समुद्र थी a प्रमुख तत्व  in Hawaiian mythology , embodied in Pele , the deity of volcanoes .
After the arrival of Europeans on the island , in 1880-1881 James  ड्वाइट दाना निर्देशित the पहला औपचारिक geological पढ़ाई of the हॉटस्पॉट 's volcanics , confirming the संबंध  long observed by the natives .
1912 marked the founding of the Hawaiian Volcano Observatory by  volcanologist थामस jaggar , initiating निरन्तर वैज्ञानिक अवलोकन  of the islands .
In the 1970s , a mapping  प्रोजेक्ट थी initiated to लाभ अधिक सूचना परिचय the जटिल  geology of Hawaii 's seafloor .
The hotspot has since been tomographically imaged , showing it to be wide and  up to गहन , और ओलीवाइन और गार्नेट -आधारd अध्ययन have दिखाया इसके  magma chamber is approximately .
In  इसके at तनिक 85 लाख सालो of कार्यकलाप the हॉटस्पॉट रै उत्पादित  an estimated of rock .
The chain 's rate of drift has slowly increased over time , causing the amount of time each individual volcano is active to  घटी , इससे 18 लाख सालो लिये the 76 लाख साल बूढ़ा डेट्रॉयट seamount , to बस अंतर्गत 900,000 लिये the एक लाख year-old kohala ;  on the other hand , eruptive volume has increased from per year to about .
Overall , this has caused a trend towards more  क्रियाशील लकिन quickly-silenced , closely spaced volcanoes—whereas ज्वालामुखी on the निकट पक्ष of the हॉटस्पॉट ओवरलैप प्रत्येक अन्य ( forming  such superstructures as Hawaii island and the ancient Maui Nui ) , the oldest of the Emperor seamounts are spaced as far as apart .
David Palmer , director of the show ,  घोषित कि the ऋतु 4 finale is the श्रेणी finale क्युकी निकलोडियन रद्द  the show .
याचिकाएं हैं होने हस्ताक्षरित  to bring the show for a fifth season .
The show airs on Treehouse  tv कनाडा और उपनाम jr. ( formerly  Noggin ) .
Eddie and the Cruisers is a 1983  अमरीकी  film directed by Martin Davidson with the screenplay written by the director and Arlene Davidson , based on the novel by P. F. Kluge .
It was  marketed साथ the टैगलाइन  `` Rebel .
रॉकर  .
प्रेमी  .
आइडल  .
vanished .  ''
Osteonecrosis of the jaw ( ONJ )  is a कठोर अस्थि बीमारी कि affects the maxilla और the mandible  .
Various forms of ONJ have been described over the last 160  सालो , और a क्रमांक of कल्याणकारी have महरूम सुझाया in the साहित्य  .
Osteonecrosis of the jaws associated  साथ bisphosphonate चिकित्सा , जरूरी by कुछ कर्कट उपचार  regimens , has been identified and defined as a pathological entity since 2003 .
The possible risk from lower oral  doses of bisphosphonates , लिया by मरीजों to prevent or दावत  osteoporosis , remains uncertain .
Various  उपचार विकल्प have महरूम छान , however कठोर मामले of onj  still require surgical removal of the affected bone .
A thorough history and assessement of pre-existing systemic problems and possible sites of  दंत संक्रमण हैं जरूरी to सहायता prevent the कंडीशन , विशेषकर if bisphosphonate  therapy is considered .
The Boston Red Sox are a professional  बेसबॉल टोली आधारित in बोस्टन , मैसाचुसेट्स , और a सदस्य  of Major League Baseball 's American League Eastern Division .
Founded in as one of the American League 's eight charter franchises  , the रेड sox 's घर ballpark रै महरूम fenway  Park since .
The `` Red Sox '' name was chosen by the team owner , John I. Taylor , around , following previous  बोस्टन टीमों कि था महरूम ज्ञात as the `` रेड  Stockings `` .
वे have निभाई in 11 संसार  Series , winning 7 .
Boston was a dominant team in the new league , defeating the Pittsburgh  pirates in the पहला संसार श्रेणी in और जीतना  four more championships by .
However , they then went into one of the longest championship droughts in baseball history , called by some the ``  अभिशाप of the bambino `` बाद इसके कथित शुरूआत साथ the रेड sox 's बिक्री of बेब रुथ to the प्रतिद्वंद्वी यांकीज़ दो सालो बाद उनके संसार चैंपियनशिप in 1918 , an 86-year इंतजार पहले the टोली 's छठे  World Championship in .
However , the team 's history during that period was hardly one of futility , but was rather punctuated with some  of the सबसे यादगार पल in संसार श्रेणी इतिहास , सहित enos वध 's `` mad डैश `` in , the  `` Impossible Dream `` of , Carlton Fisk 's home run in , and Bill Buckner 's error in .
Red Sox  इतिहास रै भी महरूम चिह्नित by the टोली 's तीव्र फंसने साथ the नई यॉर्क  Yankees , arguably the fiercest and most historic in North American professional sports .
The Boston Red Sox are owned  by fenway खेल समूह , जो भी अपना लिवरपूल फ़ुटबॉल  Club of the Premier League in England .
The Red Sox are consistently one of the top MLB teams in  औसत सड़क उपस्थिति , जबकि the छोटी क्षमता of fenway पार्क रोकता उन्हें इससे  leading in overall attendance .
From May 15 , 2003 to April 10  , 2013 , the रेड sox बेची आउट प्रत्येक घर game-a कुल of 820 खेल ( 794 नियमित ऋतु ) लिये a प्रमुख पेशेवर  sports record that lasted almost a decade .
mince पाई भर साथ  mincemeat
mincemeat is a मिश्रण of कटा सूखी फल , आसुत आत्माओं और मसाले  , and sometimes beef suet , beef , or venison .
originally , mincemeat  always contained meat .
Many modern  व्यंजनों contain बीफ suet , हालांकि सब्ज़ी shortening  is sometimes used in its place .
Variants of mincemeat  हैं मिला in ऑस्ट्रेलिया , ब्रिटनी , कनाडा , उत्तरी  Europe , Ireland , South Africa , the United Kingdom and the United States .
In  कुछ देशों the पद mincemeat  refers to minced or ground meat .
Diana , Princess of Wales ( Diana  frances ; née स्पेंसर ; 1 जुलाई 1961 – 31 अगस्त 1997 ) थी the पहला बीवी of चार्ल्स , प्रिंस of वेल्स  , the eldest son and heir apparent of Queen Elizabeth II .
वो थी खूब ज्ञात लिये उसके fund-raising कार्य लिये अंतरराष्ट्रीय धर्मार्थ और  as an eminent celebrity of the late 20th century .
Her wedding to the Prince of  वेल्स on 29 जुलाई 1981 थी आयोजित at st पॉल 's गिरजाघर और देखी by a वैश्विक  television audience of over 750 million .
While married she bore the titles Princess of Wales , Duchess of Cornwall ,  duchess of rothesay , countess of चेस्टर और बैरोनेस of renfrew  .
The marriage  उत्पादित दो बेटे , the princes विलियम और हैरी , जो became दूसरी  and third in line to the British throne .
Diana was born into an aristocratic  अंग्रेज़ी परिवार साथ royal ancestry  .
She was the fourth child of John Spencer , 8th Earl Spencer and  उसके बीवी frances , बेटी of मौरिस रोश , 4th  Baron Fermoy .
She became a public figure with  the घोषणा of उसके सगाई  .
She also received recognition for her  दान कार्य और लिये उसके support of the अंतरराष्ट्रीय अभियान  to Ban Landmines .
From 1989 , she was the president of the Great Ormond  गली हॉस्पिटल लिये children , in जोड to दर्जनों of अन्य धर्मार्थ  .
Diana remained  the ऑब्जेक्ट of विश्वव्यापी मीडिया scrutiny दौरान और बाद उसके विवाह , जिससे  ended in divorce on 28 August 1996 .
Media attention and public  शोक यहूद considerable following उसके मौत in a car क्रैश  in Paris on 31 August 1997 .
Argentina , officially the Argentine Republic ( ) , is the second largest  देश in दोनो दक्षिण अमेरिका और the लैटिन  America region .
The country is a federation of 23 provinces and the  autonomous नगर of buenos आयर्स , इसके पूंजी और largest  city .
It is the eighth  -largest देश in the संसार by जमीन क्षेत्रफल और the largest among spanish-speaking राष्ट्र by भौगोलिक  area of 2,780,400 km2 and is the fourth by population , with over 41 million people .
Argentina is a founding member of the United  राष्ट्र , mercosur , the संघ of दक्षिण अमरीकी राष्ट्र , the संगठन of ibero-american राज्य , the संसार बैंको  Group and the World Trade Organization , and is one of the G-15 and G-20 major economies .
Argentina is located in South America , bordered by Chile to the west  और दक्षिण , बोलीविया और पैराग्वे to the उत्तर और ब्राज़ील और उरुग्वे  to the northeast .
अर्जेंटीना दावा प्रभुता over भाग of अंटार्कटिक , the फ़ॉकलैंड आइलैंड्स  ( ) and South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands .
Argentina is the successor state of the Viceroyalty of the Río de la Plata  , an विदेशी उपनिवेश of the स्पेनी साम्राज्य  .
Argentina declared independence during the Argentine War of Independence , which was  followed by the अर्जेंटाइन सिविल युद्धों दौरान सबसे of the  19th century .
The country faced several military coups and political instability during  the 20th सदी , साथ साथ आवधिक आर्थिक संकट कि continue to इस  day .
A recognized Southern Cone power , and middle power , Argentina is Latin America 's  third-largest अर्थव्यवस्था , साथ a `` बहुत ऊँची '' दरजा on the इंसान  development index .
Within Latin America , Argentina has the fifth  उच्चतम नाममात्र जीडीपी प्रति capita और the उच्चतम in खरीदना शक्ति  terms .
The Legatum Institute have argued that the country has a `` foundation for  भविष्य विकास due to इसके मार्केट आकार , स्तर of विदेशी सीधा निवेश , और प्रतिशत of high-tech  exports as share of total manufactured goods '' , and it is classed by investors as middle emerging economy .
Argentina is the Latin American country with the most Nobel  पुरस्कार , लिये a कुल of पाँच , सब प्राप्त दौरान the दूसरी  half of the twentieth century .
The country has three Nobel  पुरस्कार in विज्ञान और दो of सलाम  .
the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण पहलुओं of विज्ञान और प्रौद्योगिकी in अर्जेंटीना हैं चिंतित साथ आयुर्विज्ञान , नाभिकीय भौतिकी , जैवप्रौद्योगिकी  , nanotechnology , space and rocket technology and several fields related to the country 's Main Economic Activities .
The country  भी रै the आचमन प्रदर्शनी बीच of विज्ञान , प्रौद्योगिकी , उद्योग  and art that are Latin America 's largest .
Hickory is a city in Catawba  काउंटी , साथ भाग भी in बुर्के काउंटी और काल्डवेल  County .
The city 's 2010 estimated  जनसांख्यिकी is 40,010  .
Hickory is the principal city in the Hickory-Lenoir-Morganton MSA  , in जिससे the जनसांख्यिकी at  the 2010 Census was 365,497 .
Polyethylene terephthalate ( sometimes written poly ( ethylene terephthalate ) ) , commonly abbreviated PET , PETE , or the obsolete PETP or PET-P , is a thermoplastic polymer  राल of the पॉलिएस्टर परिवार और is प्रयुक्त in सिंथेटिक मछली ; पेय , खाना और अन्य द्रव containers ; thermoforming अनुप्रयोग ; और अभियान्त्रिकी  resins often in combination with glass fiber .
The term polyethylene terephthalate is a source of confusion because this  पदार्थ , पालतु , करता नहीं contain  polyethylene .
Thus , the alternate form , poly ( ethylene  terephthalate ) , is प्रायः प्रयुक्त in scholarly  journals for the sake of accuracy and clarity .
Depending on its processing and thermal history , polyethylene terephthalate may exist both as an  amorphous ( पारदर्शी ) और as a semi-crystalline पॉलिमर  .
The  semicrystalline सामग्री might appear पारदर्शी ( कण आकार < 500 nm ) or अपारदर्शी  and white ( particle size up to a few microns ) depending on its crystal structure and particle size .
Its monomer  ( bis-β-hydroxyterephthalate ) can be synthesized by the esterification प्रतिक्रिया between terephthalic एसिड और एथिलीन ग्लाइकोल साथ जल as a byproduct  , or by transesterification reaction between ethylene glycol and dimethyl terephthalate with methanol as a byproduct .
Polymerization is through a polycondensation reaction of the  monomers ( किया तत्काल बाद esterification/transesterification ) साथ जल  as the byproduct .
The majority of the world 's PET production is for synthetic fibers ( in excess of  60 % ) , साथ बोतल उत्पादन हिसाब लिये around 30 % of वैश्विक  demand .
In the context of textile applications , PET is referred to by  इसके आम नाम , `` पॉलिएस्टर , '' whereas the एक्रोनिम `` पालतु '' is generally प्रयुक्त in  relation to packaging .
Polyester makes up about 18 % of world polymer  उत्पादन और is the third-most-produced पॉलिमर ; polyethylene ( pe ) और polypropylene  ( PP ) are first and second , respectively .
PET  consists of polymerized इकाई of the मोनोमर एथिलीन terephthalate  , with repeating C10H8O4 units .
PET  is commonly recycled , और रै the क्रमांक ``  1 '' as its recycling symbol .
Louisiana was admitted to the Union on April 30 , 1812 , and  elects सीनेटरों to वर्ग 2 और क्लास  3 .
Its current senators are Democrat Mary Landrieu and  रिपब्लिकन दाउद vitter  .
Black pudding , blood pudding or blood sausage is a type of sausage  बना by कुकिंग रक्त or सूखी रक्त साथ a फिलर जबतक it is मोटा पर्याप्त to congeal  when cooled .
The dish exists in various  संस्कृतियों इससे एशिया to यूरोपीय और the americas  .
Pig , cattle , sheep , duck , and goat blood can be  प्रयुक्त depending on अलग  countries .
In Europe and the Americas , typical fillers include meat ,  मोटे , suet , ब्रैड , cornmeal , मीठी आलू , प्याज , chestnuts , जौ , और oatmeal  .
In Spain , Portugal  और एशिया , आलू is प्रायः replaced  by rice .
शेयरधारक may refer  to:
Stakeholder ( corporate ) ,  a व्यक्ति , समूह , संगठन , सदस्य or प्रणाली जो affects  or can be affected by an organization 's actions
Stakeholder , an entity that can be affected by the  परिणाम of कि in जिससे वे हैं कहा to be हितधारकों  , i.e. , that in which they have a stake .
Project stakeholder , a  व्यक्ति , समूह or संगठन  with an interest in a project
Stakeholder theory , a theory that identifies and models the  समूह जिससे हैं हितधारकों of a निगम or  project
Stakeholder analysis  , the प्रक्रम of identifying those  affected by a project or event
शेयरधारक ( विधि ) , a तीसरा पार्टी जो temporarily holds धन  or property while its owner is still being determined
Jack Smight ( March 9 ,  1925 - सितंबर 1 , 2003 ) थी an  American theatre and film director .
smight थी born in मिनियापोलिस , मिनेसोटा और गई to स्कूल साथ  future actor Peter Graves .
His film credits include The Traveling Executioner ,  खरगोश , चलाएं , मीत युगल , मिडवे , हार्पर , विमानक्षेत्र 1975 , फटकार alley और the एमी पुरस्कार -winning एडी , as खूब as अनेक एपीसोड  of television series such as The Twilight Zone and The Alfred Hitchcock Hour .
He also directed the 1960 Broadway play The 49th Cousin  और रचित the म्यूज़िक लिये the फिल्मी adaption of फेंकें of थंडर  Hear My Cry .
Smight  died इससे कर्कट  in Los Angeles , California .
dmitri ivanovich mendeleev ( ; 8 फ़रवरी 1834 – 2 फ़रवरी 1907 o.s . 27 जनवरी  1834 – 20 January 1907 ) was a Russian chemist and inventor .
He formulated the Periodic Law , created  उसके अपना संस्करण of the आवधिक तालिका of तत्व , और प्रयुक्त it to सही the गुण of कुछ already खोजा तत्व  and also to predict the properties of elements yet to be discovered !
Modesto ( Spanish for `` modest '' ) , officially the City of Modesto , is  the काउंटी सीट और largest नगर of stanislaus काउंटी , कैलिफ़ोर्निया ,  United States .
With a  जनसांख्यिकी of लगभग 201,165 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी , modesto बाँधने as  the 18th largest city in the state of California .
The  modesto जनसांख्यिकी काउंटी प्रभाग , जिससे शामिल  the cities of Ceres and Riverbank , has a population of 312,842 as of 2010 .
Modesto  is स्तिथ in the सेंट्रल घाटी क्षेत्रफल of उत्तरी कैलिफ़ोर्निया , 90 मील उत्तर of fresno , 92 मील ईस्ट of सैन फ्रांसिस्को , 68 मील  south of the state capital of Sacramento , 66 miles west of Yosemite National Park , and 24 miles south of Stockton .
Modesto , a  29-time पेड़ नगर यूएसए honoree , is घिरी by समृद्ध farmland , lending  to a ranking for the county as 6th among all California counties in farm production .
led by मिल्क , बादाम , मुर्गियों , अखरोट , और मकई साइलेज ,  the county grossed nearly $ 3.1 billion in agricultural production in 2011 .
Modesto was immortalized in the 1973  जार्ज लुकास फिल्मी अमरीकी graffiti  .
The award winning  फिल्मी captured the स्पिरिट  of `` cruising '' and friendship on 10th and 11th Streets in 1962 and led to the revival of 1950 's nostalgia that included the TV show Happy Days and the other spin-offs .
Ron Howard , Harrison Ford  और रिचर्ड dreyfuss स्ट्रक्चर in  the film .
the साउंडट्रैक थी a विशाल  success .
Director George Lucas is a native  of modesto , graduating इससे downey ऊँची स्कूल  in 1962 .
The Gallup-Healthways Well-Being Index for 2011 , which interviews 1,000 participants daily and asks individuals to assess their jobs , finances ,  शारीरिक स्वास्थ्य , emotional राज्य of दिमाग और समुदायों , क्रमित modesto 126 आउट of the 190 शहरों surveyed  .
In December 2009 , Forbes ranked Modesto  48th आउट of 100 among `` बेहतरीन bang-for-the-buck  Cities '' .
In this  रैंकिंग , modesto क्रमित 8th in आवास affordability और सफर समय  but also ranked 86th in job forecast growth and 99th in foreclosures .
Independence Day , commonly known as the Fourth of July , is a  संघीय अवकाश in the संयुक्त राज्य commemorating the अपनाना of the घोषणा of स्वतंत्रता on जुलाई 4 , 1776 , declaring स्वतंत्रता  from the Kingdom of Great Britain .
Independence Day is commonly  संबद्ध साथ आतिशबाजी , parades , barbecues , carnivals , मेलों , picnics , कॉन्सर्ट , बेसबॉल खेल , परिवार reunions  , and political speeches and ceremonies , in addition to various other public and private events celebrating the history , government , and traditions of the United States .
Independence Day is  the नेशनल दिन of the संयुक्त  States .
A gender symbol  denotes the sex of an सजीव or characterizes  an agent by gender .
The two standard  लिंग प्रतीकों denoting पुरूष ♂ और मादा ♀ हैं निकला  from astrological symbols , denoting the classical planets Mars and Venus , respectively .
ये प्रतीकों have महरूम in उपयोग चूंकि the पुनर्जागरण भी  denoting elements in alchemy , specifically the metals iron and copper .
They were first used to denote the effective gender  of पौधे ( i.e . sex of व्यक्तिगत in a दिए crossbreed , चूंकि सबसे पौधे  are hermaphroditic ) by Carolus Linnaeus in 1751 .
A leasehold estate is an ownership of a temporary  सही to थाम जमीन or प्रॉपर्टी in जिससे a lessee or a किरायेदार holds अधिकारों of रियल प्रॉपर्टी  by some form of title from a lessor or landlord .
Although a tenant does  थाम अधिकारों to रियल प्रॉपर्टी , a leasehold एस्टेट is typically  considered personal property .
Leasehold is a form of land tenure or property tenure where  एक पार्टी खरीदता the सही to occupy जमीन or a  building for a given length of time .
As lease is a legal estate ,  leasehold एस्टेट can be खरीदा  and sold on the open market .
A leasehold thus differs from a freehold or fee simple where the ownership of a property is purchased outright and thereafter held for an  अनिर्धार्य लंबाई of समय , और भी differs इससे a tenancy जहाँ a प्रॉपर्टी is let ( rented ) on a आवधिक आधार  such as weekly or monthly .
Until the end of the lease period ( often measured in  दशकों or सदियां ; a 99 साल पट्टे is काफी आम ) the leaseholder  has the right to remain in occupation as an assured tenant paying an agreed rent to the owner .
Terms of  the अनुबंध हैं contained in a  lease , which has elements of contract and property law intertwined .
The term estate for years  may occasionally  be used .
This refers to a leasehold estate for any specific period of time  ( the शब्द `` सालो '' is भ्रामक  ) .
An estate for years is not  automatically नवीनीकृत  .
Colloquially , `` lease '' and `` leasing `` are often a formalization of a longer , specific period as compared with a ``  rental '' कि निर्मित a tenancy at होगा , terminable or बेदर्दी at the समाप्त of a छोटी काल  .
Olivia (  भी ज्ञात as स्वागत to the संसार of the सुअर ओलिविया ) is a british-american children  's animated television series produced by media company Chorion and based on Ian Falconer 's books .
It is seen  on उपनाम jr. in the  US , Milkshake !
, Nick Jr. in the UK  और आयरलैंड , और डिज़्नी जूनियर in लैटिन अमेरिका और ब्राज़ील  , Treehouse TV in Canada .
The show has won a silver Parents  ' चुनाव पुरस्कार लिये इसके धनात्मक स्टोरी  lines and characters .
Location of Panama  between प्रशांत ( नीचे ) और caribbean (  top ) , with canal at top center
The Panama Canal ( ) is a ship canal in Panama that connects the  अटलांटिक समंदर ( via the caribbean समुद्र ) to the प्रशांत  Ocean .
The canal cuts across the  isthmus of पनामा और is a कुंजी conduit  for international maritime trade .
There are locks at each end to lift ships  up to gatun झील ( ऊपर sea-level  ) .
Gatun Lake was  निर्मित to reduce the राशि of कार्य जरूरी  for the canal .
The  वर्तमान ताले  are wide .
A  तीसरा , wider  lane of locks is being built .
France began work on the canal in 1881 , but had to stop  क्युकी of अभियान्त्रिकी समस्याएं और ऊँची मृत्यु  due to disease .
The United States ( US )  बाद took over the प्रोजेक्ट और took a दशक to पूरा the कनाल in 1914 , enabling जहाजों to avoid the lengthy केप सींग रूट  around the southernmost tip of South America ( via the Drake Passage ) or to navigate the Strait of Magellan .
One of  the largest और सबसे मुश्किल अभियान्त्रिकी  projects ever undertaken , the Panama Canal shortcut made it possible for ships to travel between the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans in half the time previously required .
The shorter , faster , safer route to the US West Coast and to  राष्ट्र in और साथ the प्रशांत समंदर अनुमत those स्थान  to become more integrated with the world economy .
During this time , ownership of the territory  कि is अभी the पनामा कनाल थी पहला कोलम्बियाई , तब फ्रेंच  , and then American ; the United States completed the construction .
The  कनाल थी लिया over in 1999 by the panamanian  government , as long planned .
Annual traffic has risen from about  1,000 जहाजों जब the कनाल खोली in 1914 , to 14,702 बरतन in 2008 , the latter measuring a कुल of 309.6  million Panama Canal/Universal Measurement System ( PC/UMS ) tons .
By 2008 , more  than 815,000 बरतन था passed through the कनाल , अनेक of उन्हें much larger than the  original planners could have envisioned ; the largest ships that can transit the canal today are called Panamax .
The American Society of Civil Engineers has named the Panama  कनाल एक of the सात चमत्कार of the आधुनिक संसार  .
बेंजामिन फ्रैंकलिन ( अप्रैल 17 , 1790  ) was one of the Founding Fathers of the United States .
A noted polymath , Franklin was a leading author , printer , political theorist ,  राजनेता , postmaster , वैज्ञानिक , संगीतकार , आविष्कारक , satirist , नागरिक activist , statesman  , and diplomat .
As a scientist , he was a  प्रमुख फिगर in the अमरीकी आत्मज्ञान और the इतिहास of भौतिकी लिये उसके  discoveries and theories regarding electricity .
He  invented the बिजली लाठी , bifocals  , the Franklin stove , a carriage odometer , and the glass 'armonica ' .
He facilitated many  नागरिक संगठन , सहित a आग विभाग  and a university .
Franklin earned the title of `` The First American '' for his early and indefatigable campaigning for colonial unity ; as an  लेखक और प्रवक्ता in लंदन लिये अनेक colonies , तब as the पहला संयुक्त राज्य दूत to  France , he exemplified the emerging American nation .
Franklin was foundational in defining the American ethos as a  विवाह of the व्यावहारिक मान of thrift , मुश्किल कार्य , शिक्षा , जातियाँ स्पिरिट , self-governing संस्थानों ,  and opposition to authoritarianism both political and religious , with the scientific and tolerant values of the Enlightenment .
In the words of historian Henry Steele Commager , `` In a Franklin  could be मिलाया the virtues of puritanism बगैर इसके  defects , the illumination of the Enlightenment without its heat . ''
To Walter Isaacson , this makes  फ्रैंकलिन `` the सबसे संपन्नता अमरीकी of उसके आयु और  the most influential in inventing the type of society America would become . ''
Franklin , always  गर्व of उसके working क्लास जड़ें , became a कामयाब समाचारपत्र एडिटर और मुद्रक  in Philadelphia , the leading city in the colonies .
He was also partners with William Goddard and Joseph Galloway the three  of जिसको प्रकाशित the पेन्सिलवेनिया वृत्तान्त , a समाचारपत्र कि थी ज्ञात लिये इसके क्रांतिकारी sentiments  and criticisms of the British monarchy in the American colonies .
He became wealthy publishing Poor  रिचर्ड 's almanack और the पेन्सिलवेनिया  Gazette .
Franklin gained  अंतरराष्ट्रीय renown as a वैज्ञानिक लिये उसके प्रसिद्ध प्रयोग in विद्युत  and for his many inventions , especially the lightning rod .
He played a major role in  establishing the विश्वविद्यालयों of पेन्सिलवेनिया और थी  elected the first president of the American Philosophical Society .
Franklin became a national hero in America when he  पथप्रदर्शन the प्रयत्न to have पार्लियामेंट repeal the unpopular  Stamp Act .
an संपन्नता राजनयिक , he थी widely admired among the फ्रेंच as अमरीकी मंत्री  to Paris and was a major figure in the development of positive Franco-American relations .
For many years he was the British postmaster for the colonies , which enabled  उसे to नियत up the पहला नेशनल संचार संजाल  .
He was active in community affairs ,  औपनिवेशिक और राज्य राजनीती , as खूब as नेशनल और अंतरराष्ट्रीय  affairs .
From 1785 to 1788 ,  he परोसा as राज्यपाल of पेन्सिलवेनिया  .
Toward the  समाप्त of उसके जीवन , he freed उसके स्लेव और became एक of the सबसे prominent  abolitionists .
His colorful life and legacy of scientific and political achievement , and status as one of America 's most influential Founding Fathers , have seen Franklin  सम्मानित on coinage और धन ; warships ; the names of अनेक कस्बों , काउंटी , शैक्षणिक संस्थानों , namesakes , और कंपनियाँ ; और अधिक than दो सदियां  after his death , countless cultural references .
Criminal Minds is an American  पुलिस प्रक्रियात्मक टेलीविज़न कार्यक्रम कि premiered सितंबर  22 , 2005 , on CBS .
The series  फ़ॉलो a टोली of profilers इससे the एफबीआई 's behavioral  Analysis Unit ( BAU ) based in Quantico , Virginia .
the bau is भाग of the एफबीआई नेशनल  Center for the Analysis of Violent Crime .
The  दिखाएँ differs इससे अनेक प्रक्रियात्मक dramas by focusing on प्रोफाइलिंग  the criminal , rather than the crime itself .
The show is produced by The Mark Gordon Company in association with CBS Television Studios ( originally Paramount  संजाल टेलीविज़न तब सीबीएस सर्वोपरि संजाल टेलीविज़न ) और एबीसी studios ( originally touchstone  Television ) .
CBS announced  in अक्तूबर 2009 कि विरासत इंटरैक्टिव  would develop a video game based on the show .
The game would require players to  जाँचें अपराधों दृश्यों लिये clues to  help solve murder mysteries .
The interactive puzzle game was released in 2012 , but did  नहीं विशेषता कोई of the आवाज़ें of the दिखाएँ 's डाल , nor थी the डाल शामिल साथ  the project .
On March 14  , 2012 , सीबीएस नवीनीकृत दण्ड minds लिये an आठवीं ऋतु , जिससे  premiered on September 26 , 2012 .
`` Heart-Shaped Box '' is a  सोंग by the अमरीकी grunge बैंड निर्वाण , लिखा  by vocalist and guitarist Kurt Cobain .
The song was released as the first single from the group 's  तीसरा और फाइनल स्टुडियो एल्बम , in utero , in 1993  .
It was one of two songs from the album mixed  by स्कॉट litt in अनुक्रम to augment the असली उत्पादन by निर्माता स्टीव albini .
While Nirvana 's label DGC Records did not release a physical single for sale in  the संयुक्त राज्य , `` heart-shaped बक्सा '' प्राप्त much अमरीकी रेडियो airplay , reaching क्रमांक  one on the Billboard Modern Rock Tracks chart .
The international release of the single reached number  पाँच on the uk singles चार्ट  .
the सोंग 's म्यूज़िक वीडियो , निर्देशित  by Anton Corbijn , garnered critical plaudits .
The orbital speed of a body , generally a planet , a natural  उपग्रह , an कृत्रिम उपग्रह , or a अनेक स्टार , is the गति at जिससे it orbits  around the barycenter of a system , usually around a more massive body .
It can be used to refer to either the mean orbital speed , the average speed as it completes an orbit , or  instantaneous कक्षीय गति , the गति at a particular पाइंट in इसके  orbit .
The orbital speed at any position in the orbit can be computed from the  अलहदा to the सेंट्रल देह at कि स्थिति , और the विशिष्ट कक्षीय उर्जा , जिससे is स्वतंत्र of स्थिति : the  kinetic energy is the total energy minus the potential energy .
Brown Palace  आंतरिक  and Atrium
Brown Palace Hotel is the second-oldest operating hotel in Denver , Colorado  और is एक of the पहला atrium-style होटल कभी  built .
It is now  संचालित by कोरम होटल और  Resorts .
It was built in 1892 , one year  बाद than the ऑक्सफोर्ड  Hotel .
It was named for its original owner ,  हेनरी C. भूरा , और थी designed साथ इसके विषम triangular आकार by वास्तु फ़्रैंक  Edbrooke .
The hotel is located at 321 17th  st , डेनवर , co between 17th गली , ब्रॉडवे और tremont street/pl in  downtown Denver behind the Republic Plaza .
The main  प्रवेश द्वार is on tremont गली  .
DVD-Video is a consumer video format used to store digital video on DVD discs , and is  फिलहाल the प्रबल उपभोक्ता वीडियो स्वरूप in एशिया , उत्तर अमेरिका , यूरोपीय , और ऑस्ट्रेलिया  .
Discs using the DVD-Video  specification आवश्यकता a dvd ड्राइव और an h.262/mpeg-2  Part 2 decoder ( e.g. , a DVD player , or a computer DVD drive with a software DVD player ) .
Commercial DVD movies are encoded using a combination of H.262/MPEG-2 Part 2  संपीडित वीडियो और ऑडियो of varying स्वरुप ( प्रायः multi-channel स्वरुप as वर्णित नीचे  ) .
Typically , the data rate for DVD movies ranges  इससे 3 mbit/s to 9.5 mbit/s  , and the bit rate is usually adaptive .
It was first  उपलब्धियाँ लिये खुदरा around  1997 .
The DVD-Video specification was created by DVD Forum and can be  प्राप्त इससे dvd format/logo लाइसेंसिंग निगम लिये a शुल्क  of $ 5,000 .
The specification is not publicly  उपलब्धियाँ , क्युकी प्रत्येक सदस्य जरूर चिह्न a non-disclosure  agreement .
Certain  सूचना in the dvd किताब is मालिकाना  and confidential .
The nautical mile ( symbol M , NM or nmi )  is a ईकाई of लंबाई कि is परिचय एक मिनट of चाप of  latitude measured along any meridian , or about one minute of arc of longitude at the equator .
By international agreement it has been set at 1,852 metres  exactly ( परिचय 6,076 फीट )  .
It is a  non- si ईकाई ( हालांकि स्वीकृत लिये उपयोग in the अंतरराष्ट्रीय प्रणाली of इकाई by the bipm  ) used especially by navigators in the shipping and aviation industries , and also in polar exploration .
It is  commonly प्रयुक्त in अंतरराष्ट्रीय विधि और  treaties , especially regarding the limits of territorial waters .
It developed  इससे the समुद्र मील और the सम्बन्धित  geographical mile .
The nautical mile remains in use by sea and air  navigators विश्वव्यापी क्युकी of इसके  convenience when working with charts .
Most nautical charts use the Mercator projection whose  स्केल varies by परिचय a फ़ैक्टर of छह इससे the equator to 80° अक्षांश , so चार्ट  covering large areas can not use a single linear scale .
the nautical मील is nearly बराबर to a मिनट of अक्षांश  on a chart , so a distance measured with a chart divider can be roughly converted to nautical miles using the chart 's latitude scale .
Shippensburg is a borough in  कम्बरलैंड और फ्रैंकलिन काउंटी in the u.S. राज्य of पेन्सिलवेनिया  .
Settled in 1730 , Shippensburg lies in the  कम्बरलैंड घाटी , 41 मील ( 66 km ) west-southwest of harrisburg , और is भाग of the  Harrisburg– Carlisle Metropolitan Statistical Area .
In 1900 , 3,228 people  जिया वहीँ ; in 1910 , 3,457 ; और in 1940 ,  5,244 people lived there .
The population was 5,492  at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी  .
Shippensburg  थी incorporated as a बरो  on January 21 , 1819 .
In the past , there were furniture factories ,  इंजन और पंप works , और अन्य औद्योगिक  works located within the town .
shippensburg is भी the घर of the beistle  Company , the oldest and largest manufacturer of decorations and party goods , which sells its distinctive honeycomb paper decorations worldwide .
It is also  the स्थान of pague और fegan , the oldest लगातार संचालित  hardware store in Pennsylvania .
In May 2012 ,  वोल्वो निर्माण उपकरण began a $ 100 लाख  expansion project to bring its American headquarters to Shippensburg .
shippensburg is भी घर to shippensburg विश्वविद्यालयों of पेन्सिलवेनिया , एक of 14 विश्वविद्यालयों  of the Pennsylvania State System of Higher Education .
Yearly the  पिछला पूरा सप्ताह of जुलाई , the shippensburg  Community Fair is held .
Begun in 1958 , the  मेला बिल्स itself as पेन्सिलवेनिया  's largest bi-county fair .
The fair includes  agricultural दर्शाती , a शिल्प दिखाएँ , खाना विक्रेता  , and carnival rides amongst other things .
Every summer on the last Saturday of August , Shippensburg holds the Corn  पर्व , an इवेंट कि brings क्षेत्रीय शिल्पकार और विक्रेता  to operate stands downtown .
The downtown is closed to traffic  लिये at तनिक 5 ब्लॉक लिये सबसे of the  day .
Average  उपस्थिति at the पर्व is अनुमानित  at 60,000 - 70,000 each year .
Black hairy tongue ( BHT , also termed lingua villosa nigra ) refers to a condition of the  जीभ जहाँ the filiform papillae elongate साथ ब्लैक or भूरा discoloration , giving a ब्लैक और बालदार रूप  .
The appearance  may be alarming , लकिन it is a हानिरहित  condition .
Predisposing factors include smoking , xerostomia (  शुष्क मुँह ) , नरम आहार , ग़रीब मौखिक hygiene और निश्चित  medications .
Management is by improving oral  hygiene , विशेषकर scraping or brushing  the tongue .
The IEEE 1394 interface is a serial bus interface standard for high-speed  संचार और isochronous real-time आंकड़ा ट्रांसफ़र  .
It was developed in the late  1980s और जल्दी 1990s by ठहराना , जो पुकारा it firewire  .
The 1394 interface is comparable to USB , and often  those दो technologies हैं माना साथ , हालांकि usb रै  more market share .
Apple first included FireWire in some of its 1999 models , and most Apple computers  चूंकि the साल 2000 have शामिल firewire पोर्ट , हालांकि , as of 2013 , nothing  beyond the 800 version ( IEEE-1394b ) .
The interface is also  ज्ञात by the ब्रांड i.link ( सोनी ) , और  Lynx ( Texas Instruments ) .
IEEE 1394 replaced parallel SCSI in many applications ,  क्युकी of निम्नतर क्रियान्वयन लागत और a सरलीकृत , अधिक अनुकूलनीय  cabling system .
the 1394 मानक भी defines a backplane  interface , though this is not as widely used .
IEEE 1394 is the High-Definition Audio-Video Network  गठबंधन ( हाना ) मानक कनेक्शन इंटरफ़ेस लिये a/v ( audio/visual ) घटक  communication and control .
FireWire is also available  in बेतार , रेशा ऑप्टिक , और समाक्षीय  versions using the isochronous protocols .
Stephen `` Stevie '' Ray Vaughan ( October 3 ,  1954 – अगस्त 27 , 1990 ) थी an अमरीकी guitarist , singer-songwriter  , and record producer .
Often referred to by his initials SRV , Vaughan  is बेहतरीन ज्ञात as a founding सदस्य और नेता of  Double Trouble .
Together with drummer Chris Layton  और bassist टॉमी शैनन , वे ignited  the blues revival of the 1980s .
With a career spanning seven  सालो , vaughan और दोगुना ट्रबल consistently  sold out concerts while their albums frequently went gold .
He was born and raised in Dallas  , टेक्सास , और लिये a छोटी काल of समय जिया  in Graham , Texas .
As the younger brother of  jimmie vaughan , vaughan प्रारंभ playing the गिटार at आयु सात और formed  several bands that occasionally performed in local nightclubs .
At age 17 , he  dropped आउट of ऊँची स्कूल और स्थानांतरित to ऑस्टिन to further pursue उसके musical  career , joining groups such as Krackerjack , the Nightcrawlers , and the Cobras .
In 1977 , he formed  ट्रिपल threat revue , a बैंड कि आखिरकार विकसित  into Double Trouble and regularly performed around Austin .
In 1982 , Vaughan and Double Trouble  performed at the montreux जैज़ पर्व in स्विट्ज़रलैंड , catching the ध्यान  of musicians David Bowie and Jackson Browne .
Bowie asked Vaughan to play on his upcoming studio album Let 's Dance , while Browne offered the band free use  of उसके निजी स्टुडियो in लॉस एंजिल्स to रिकार्ड  an album .
In March 1983 , Vaughan and Double Trouble were signed to Epic Records by veteran  रिकार्ड निर्माता जॉन हैमंड sr. और released उनके डेब्यू एल्बम ,  Texas Flood in June of that year .
After successful touring , the group released the albums , Could n't Stand the  मौसम ( 1984 ) और आत्मा to आत्मा ( 1985 ) , the latter  of which featured new keyboardist Reese Wynans .
Although his career had  progressed सफलतापूर्वक , vaughan checked into a पुनर्वास हॉस्पिटल in अटलांटा , जॉर्जिया to  give up a cocaine and alcohol habit and returned to touring with the band .
In June 1989 , In Step was released and  अर्जित उन्हें a ग्रैमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन समकालीन  Blues Performance .
On August 27 , 1990 ,  vaughan थी मारे in a हेलीकाप्टर क्रैश following a प्रदर्शन  in East Troy , Wisconsin .
Vaughan 's uniquely eclectic yet intense  स्टाइल थी निकला इससे a किस्में of musical  genres .
He was influenced  by ब्लूज़ संगीतकारों सहित अल्बर्ट किंग , फ्रेडी किंग , ओटिस फटाफट , और muddy waters  , and rock guitarists such as Jimi Hendrix and Lonnie Mack .
His guitar playing  reflected the क्लासिक ब्लूज़ और pentatonic  scales .
He has received wide critical recognition for his guitar playing , ranking at # 6 on  रोलिंग पत्थरों सूची of `` 100 महानतम guitarists  '' in 2011 .
He was posthumously inducted into the Blues Hall of Fame in  2000 और a मेमोरियल प्रतिमा थी erected in ऑस्टिन 's ऑडिटोरियम  Shores park .
Stevie Ray  vaughan is widely माना to be एक of the महानतम संगीतकारों to आइये  from the state of Texas .
GigE  redirects  here .
लिये the कैमरा प्रोटोकॉल  , see GigE vision .
In computer networking , gigabit Ethernet ( GbE or 1 GigE )  is a पद describing विभिन्न technologies लिये transmitting ईथरनेट फ्रेम्स at a रेट of a gigabit प्रति दूसरी ( 1,000,000,000 बिट्स प्रति दूसरी ) , as पारिभाषित by  the IEEE 802.3-2008 standard .
it आए into उपयोग शुरूआत in 1999 , धीरे supplanting तेज़ ईथरनेट in  wired local networks , where it performed considerably faster .
The cables and equipment are very  समान to पिछला मानकों और यहूद बहुत आम और किफायती  by 2010 .
half-duplex gigabit कड़ी कनेक्ट through hubs हैं अनुमत by the specification  , but full-duplex usage with switches is much more common .
Intel  pro/1000 gt पीसीआई संजाल  interface card
The  प्रमुख components  of a stamp:
1 .  चित्र
2 .  perforations
3  . denomination
4 . देश  name
A postage stamp is a  छोटी टुकड़ा of पेपर कि is खरीदा और प्रदर्शित on an मद  of mail as evidence of payment of postage .
Typically , stamps are made from special paper , with a national  नामांकन और denomination ( दाम ) on the फेस , और a  gum adhesive on the reverse side .
Postage stamps are purchased from a postal  प्रशासन or अन्य प्राधिकृत विक्रेता और हैं प्रयुक्त to अदा लिये the लागत शामिल in चलती मेल as खूब as  other business necessities such as insurance and registration .
The  stamp’s आकार is प्रायः कि of a छोटी आयताकार of varying  proportions , though triangles or other shapes are occasionally used .
The stamp is affixed to an envelope or other postal cover ( i.e.  , पैकेट , बक्सा , mailing बेलन ) कि the ग्राहक  wishes to send .
The item is then processed by the postal system , where a postmark , sometimes known as a cancellation  चिह्नित , is प्रायः लागू over the स्टैम्प और कवर ; इस कार्यविधि marks the स्टैम्प as प्रयुक्त , जिससे रोकता  its reuse .
the postmark indicates the  date and point of origin of the mailing .
The mailed item is then delivered  to the पता कि the ग्राहक रै लागू to the लिफाफा or  cover .
Postage  stamps have facilitated the डिलीवरी  of mail since the 1840s .
Before this time , ink and hand-stamps ( hence the word 'stamp ' ) , usually made from wood  or कॉर्क , यहूद प्रायः प्रयुक्त to फ़्रैंक the मेल और confirm the भुगतान of postage .
The first adhesive postage stamp , commonly referred to  as the पैनी ब्लैक , थी जारी in the संयुक्त किंगडम in 1840  .
The invention of the stamp was a part of the attempt to reform and improve  the डाक प्रणाली in the संयुक्त किंगडम of ग्रेट ब्रिटेन और आयरलैंड , जिससे in the जल्दी 19th सदी थी in अस्तव्यस्तता और  rife with corruption .
There are varying accounts of  the आविष्कारक or आविष्कारक of the स्टैम्प  .
Before the introduction of postage stamps , mail in the UK was paid for by the recipient , a system that was associated with an irresolvable problem : the costs of delivering mail were not recoverable by the postal service when recipients were unable or  unwilling to अदा लिये वितरित वस्तुएं , और प्रेषकों था no प्रोत्साहन to सीमित the क्रमांक , आकार , or वज़न of वस्तुएं भेजा , whether or नहीं वे होता ultimately  be paid for .
The postage stamp resolved this issue  in a सरल और सुरुचिपूर्ण manner , साथ the अतिरिक्त लाभ  of room for an element of beauty to be introduced .
Later related inventions include postal stationery such as prepaid-postage envelopes , post cards , lettercards ,  aerogrammes और wrappers , postage मीटर , और , अधिक recently , specialty बाक्स और लिफाफे provided  free to the customer by the U.S. postal service for priority or express mailing .
The postage stamp afforded convenience for both the mailer and postal officials , more  efficiently बरामद लागत लिये the डाक सेवा , और ultimately resulted in a बेहतर , तेज़ डाक  system .
With the conveniences stamps offered , their use resulted in greatly increased  mailings दौरान the 19th और 20th सदियां  .
Postage stamps during this era  यहूद the सबसे लोकप्रिय रास्ता of paying लिये मेल , लकिन by the समाप्त of the 20th सदी यहूद rapidly होने आत by the उपयोग of metered postage  and bulk mailing by businesses . )
The same result with respect to communications by  निजी पार्टियों occurred over the पिछला दशक of the 20th सदी और  the first decade of the 21st due to declining cost of long distance telephone communications and the development and explosive spread of electronic mailing ( `` e-mail '' via the Internet ) and bill paying systems had .
As  postage stamps साथ उनके engraved imagery began  to appear on a widespread basis , historians and collectors began to take notice .
The study of postage stamps and their  उपयोग is referred to as philately  .
Stamp collecting can be both a hobby and a form of historical study and reference , as  government-issued postage stamps और उनके mailing प्रणालियों have सदा महरूम  involved with the history of nations .
The University of Alabama at Birmingham ( UAB ) is a  पब्लिक विश्वविद्यालयों in बर्मिंघम in the u.S. राज्य of अलबामा  .
Developing from an extension center  स्थापित in 1936 , the संस्था became an autonomous संस्था in 1969 और is आज एक of तीन संस्थानों  in the University of Alabama System .
UAB offers over 140 programs of study in 12 academic divisions leading to bachelor 's , master 's , doctoral , and professional degrees in the social and  behavioral sciences , the उदार कला , कारोबार , शिक्षा , अभियान्त्रिकी , और health-related फ़ील्ड ऐसे as आयुर्विज्ञान , dentistry , optometry  , nursing , and public health .
The school is highly renowned for  इसके चिकित्सा शोध और प्राकृतिक  sciences programs .
The UAB Health System , one of  the largest अकादमिक चिकित्सा centers in the संयुक्त राज्य ,  is affiliated with the university .
uab हॉस्पिटल प्रायोजकों रेसिडेंसी कार्यक्रम in विभिन्न चिकित्सा specialties  , including internal medicine , neurology , surgery , radiology , and anesthesiology .
UAB Hospital is the only ACS verified Level I trauma center in Alabama , as rated  by the अमरीकी कॉलेज of अध्येतावृत्ति आघात कार्यक्रम  .
UAB is the state 's  largest नियोक्ता , साथ अधिक than 18,000 संकाय और स्टाफ और over 53,000 कार्य  at the university and in the health system .
An estimated 10 percent of the jobs in the Birmingham-Hoover  महानगर क्षेत्रफल और 1 in 33 कार्य in the राज्य of  Alabama are directly or indirectly related to UAB .
The  विश्वविद्यालयों 's overall सालाना आर्थिक  impact was estimated to be $ 4.6 billion in 2010 .
In the fall of 2012 , the University of Alabama at Birmingham enrolled 17,999 students from more than  110 देशों , सहित 1,605 freshmen  .
वहीँ हैं योजनाएँ to commence साथ an  `` aggressive '' growth in enrollment at UAB .
The current UAB President is  dr. रे L. watts  .
Tofu , also called bean curd , is a food made by  coagulating सोया रस और तब दबाने the resulting  curds into soft white blocks .
It is a  घटक in अनेक ईस्ट एशियाई और southeast  Asian cuisines .
There are  अनेक अलग किस्में of टोफू , सहित भैस  tofu and tofu that has been processed in some way .
Tofu has a subtle  स्वाद और can be प्रयुक्त in savory और  sweet dishes .
It is often seasoned or  marinated to सूट the डिश  .
टोफू originated in प्राचीन  China some 2,000 years ago .
Chinese legend ascribes its  आविष्कार to प्रिंस लियू an ( चाइनीज : 劉安 liú ān  , 179–122 BC ) .
Tofu and its  उत्पादन तकनीक यहूद introduced into कोरियाई  and then Japan during the Nara period .
It spread into other  भाग of ईस्ट एशिया as खूब  .
This spread likely  coincided साथ the स्प्रेड of buddhism क्युकी it is an  important source of protein in the vegetarian diet of East Asian Buddhism .
Li Shizhen in the Ming Dynasty  वर्णित a विधि of बनाना  tofu in Bencao Gangmu .
Tofu  रै a कम कैलोरी गिनती , अपेक्षाकृत  large amounts of protein , and little fat .
It is high in iron and depending on the coagulant used in  निर्माण , may भी be ऊँची in कैल्सियम and/or मैग्नीशियम  .
Bubbles ( born 1983 ) is a common chimpanzee , known for being the one-time pet of American  रिकॉर्डिंग कलाकार माइकल जैक्सन , जो खरीदा the primate इससे a टेक्सास शोध सुविधा  in the early 1980s .
The animal was a  बारंबार सफर साथी to the सिंगर , जिनकी अनुलग्नक to the एनिमल led to मीडिया mockery और ,  among other factors , to a public perception of Jackson as an eccentric .
During  the ख़राब संसार दौरे , लिये उदाहरण , जैक्सन brought  Bubbles with him to Japan , where they both drank tea with the mayor of Osaka .
बुलबुले थी initially रखा at the जैक्सन परिवार 's घर in encino ,  Los Angeles , but was moved to Neverland Ranch in 1988 .
There , he  slept in a crib in जैक्सन 's बेडरूम , प्रयुक्त the  singer 's toilet , and ate candy in the Neverland movie theater .
In 2003 the public learned that , like all captive chimpanzees , Bubbles had  matured into a विशाल और आक्रामक वयस्क chimp unsuitable  as a companion animal .
He was sent to a California animal trainer , where he  थी reported to have attempted आत्महत्या .
When the trainer shut down his operation in  2004 , बुलबुले थी स्थानांतरित to the बीच लिये ग्रेट apes , a अभयारण्य in wauchula  , Florida , where he has lived since 2005 .
Muse are an English rock band from  teignmouth , देवों , जिससे formed  in 1994 .
The band consists of school friends Matthew Bellamy ( lead vocals , lead guitar , piano ,  keyboards , keytar ) , क्रिस्टोफर wolstenholme ( बास , vocals , keyboards , लय गिटार , हार्मोनिका  ) and Dominic Howard ( drums , percussion , synthesisers , sampling ) .
Since the release of their  2006 एल्बम ब्लैक छेद और खुलासे , keyboardist और percussionist मॉर्गन  Nicholls has performed live with the band .
चिंतन हैं ज्ञात लिये उनके ऊर्जावान और हद सजीव प्रदर्शन  and their fusion of many music genres , including space rock , progressive rock , alternative rock , heavy metal , classical music and electronica .
Muse have released six studio albums : Showbiz ( 1999 ) , Origin of Symmetry ( 2001 ) , Absolution ( 2003 ) ,  ब्लैक छेद और खुलासे ( 2006 ) , the प्रतिरोध ( 2009 ) और the 2nd विधि ( 2012  ) .
They have also issued three live albums , Hullabaloo Soundtrack ( 2002 ) , which is also a compilation of B-sides , Absolution Tour ( 2005 ) , and  haarp ( 2008 ) , जिससे दस्तावेज़ the बैंड 's प्रदर्शन at वेम्बली स्टेडियम  in 2007 .
Black Holes and Revelations earned  the बैंड a पारा पुरस्कार नामांकन और a तीसरा प्लेस समाप्त in the  NME Albums of the Year list for 2006 .
Muse have also won a collection of music awards throughout their history , including five MTV Europe Music Awards , six Q Awards , eight NME Awards , two Brit Awards  —winning `` बेहतरीन अंग्रेजों सजीव अधिनियम '' twice , an एमटीवी वीडियो म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार , चार kerrang  !
Awards and an  अमरीकी म्यूज़िक  Award .
They were also nominated for five Grammy Awards  , of जिससे वे जीती बेहतरीन चट्टान एल्बम , लिये उनके पांचवां स्टुडियो एल्बम the प्रतिरोध ( 2009  ) .
Muse have sold over  15 लाख एल्बम  worldwide .
Bloemfontein ( , ; Dutch for `` fountain of flowers '' ) is the  पूंजी नगर of the फ़्री राज्य प्रांत of दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी ; और , as the न्यायिक पूंजी of the स्वदेश , एक of दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी  's three national capitals – the other two being Cape Town , the legislative capital , and Pretoria , the administrative capital .
Bloemfontein is  popularly और poetically ज्ञात as `` the नगर  of roses `` , owing to the abundance of these flowers and the annual rose festival held there .
The city 's Sesotho name is  mangaung , अर्थ `` प्लेस of cheetahs ``  and it has been included in the Mangaung Local Municipality since 2000 .
Bloemfontein is  situated on शुष्क घासभूमि at , at an  altitude of above sea level .
the नगर is घर to 369,568 निवासियों , जबकि the mangaung लोकल नगरपालिका  has a population of 645,455 .
Where Do  we आइये इससे  ?
कया हैं we  ?
जहाँ हैं  We Going ?
One of Post-Impressionist  पॉल gauguin 's सबसे  famous paintings .
The meaning of life is a philosophical question  concerning the significance of जीवन  or existence in general .
It can also be expressed in different forms , such as `` Why are we  यहाँ ? `` , `` कया is जीवन सब परिचय ? `` , और `` कया is the purpose of अस्तित्व ?  ''
It has been the subject of much philosophical ,  वैज्ञानिक , और theological अटकलें throughout इतिहास  .
There have been a large number of proposed answers to these questions from many  अलग सांस्कृतिक और वैचारिक  backgrounds .
The meaning of life is in the philosophical and religious conceptions of existence , social ties , consciousness , and happiness , and borders on many other issues , such as symbolic meaning , ontology , value , purpose , ethics , good and evil , free  होगा , the अस्तित्व of एक or अनेक देवताओं , conceptions of परमेश्वर , the आत्मा , और the आफ्टरलाइफ  .
Scientific contributions  फ़ोकस primarily on describing सम्बन्धित अनुभवजन्य तथ्य परिचय the ब्रह्मांड , exploring the कॉन्टेक्स्ट और  parameters concerning the 'how ' of life .
Science also studies and  can provide सुझाव लिये  the pursuit of well-being and a related conception of morality .
An alternative ,  humanistic दृष्टिकोण मुद्राएँ the सवाल `` कया  is the meaning of my life ? ''
The value of the question pertaining to the purpose of life  may coincide साथ the उपलब्धि of परम  reality , or a feeling of oneness , or even a feeling of sacredness .
Family Guy creator Seth MacFarlane also provides  the आवाज़ें of पीटर griffin , stewie griffin , ब्रायन griffin , और  Glenn Quagmire .
Family Guy is an American animated sitcom that features five main voice actors ,  और numerous नियमित डाल और पुनरावर्ती अतिथि सितारों  .
The principal voice cast consists of show creator Seth MacFarlane  , एलेक्स borstein , सेठ ग्रीन , mila kunis ( जो replaced लेसी chabert बाद  the first season ) and Mike Henry and now , the new actor Beau Osborne .
Recurring voice actors include Patrick Warburton , Adam West , John  G. ब्रेनन , निकोल सुलीवान और जेनिफर tilly , और repeat अतिथि सितारों शामिल फिलिस  Diller , Charles Durning , Rush Limbaugh , and Phil LaMarr .
Many cast  सदस्यों provide आवाज़ें लिये अनेक  characters .
The voice actors  , in portraying the विभिन्न अक्षर personalities  on the show , draw inspiration from celebrities and pop culture .
Family Guy characters have been played by more than one actor  , बाद सदस्यों of the दिखाएँ बाएँ the श्रेणी or था conflicting दायित्वों  .
Kunis was nominated for an Annie Award for voicing Meg Griffin in the season 5 episode `` Barely Legal `` and MacFarlane has also won an  एमी पुरस्कार लिये बकाया voice-over प्रदर्शन और an एनी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन आवाज़ एक्टिंग in an एनिमेटेड टेलीविज़न उत्पादन , हालांकि no अन्य डाल सदस्य रै जीती an पुरस्कार  for their work on the series .
1911 उदाहरण  by Edmund Dulac
`` The Princess and the Pea '' ( ; literal translation : ``  the राजकुमारी on the मटर '' ) is a साहित्यिक परी टेल by hans ईसाई andersen परिचय a यंग स्त्री जिनकी royal पहचान  is established by a test of her physical sensitivity .
The tale was first published with three others by Andersen in an inexpensive  पुस्तिका on 8 may 1835 in कोपेनहेगन by c.a . reitzel  .
Andersen had heard the story as a child , and it likely has its source in folk material , possibly  originating इससे स्वीडन as it is अनजान in the डैनिश मौखिक परंपरा  .
Neither `` The Princess and the Pea '' nor Andersen 's other tales of 1835  यहूद खूब प्राप्त by डैनिश आलोचकों , जो disliked उनके कैज़ुअल , chatty स्टाइल , और उनके कमी of नैतिकता  .
In 1959 `` The Princess and  the मटर '' थी adapted to the musical स्टेज in a उत्पादन पुकारा  Once Upon a Mattress starring Carol Burnett .
German Americans ( ) are citizens of the United  राज्य जो यहूद either born in जर्मनी or हैं of जर्मनी ancestry  .
They comprise  परिचय 50 लाख लोगों , बनाना उन्हें the largest ancestry समूह ahead of  Irish Americans , African Americans and English Americans .
They comprise about 1/3  of the जर्मनी diaspora सब  over the world .
None of the  जर्मनी राज्य था नई संसार colonies  .
Not until the 1670s did the  पहला significant समूह of जर्मनी आप्रवासियों arrive in the अंग्रेजों  colonies , settling primarily in New York and Pennsylvania .
Immigration continued in very large numbers  दौरान the 19th सदी , साथ कुछ  eight million arrivals from Germany .
They were pulled by the attractions of land and religious freedom , and pushed out of Europe by  shortages of जमीन और धार्मिक or राजनैतिक दमन  .
Many arrived seeking religious or political freedom , others for economic  अवसर वृहद than those in यूरोपीय , और अन्य बस लिये  the chance to start fresh in the New World .
The arrivals before 1850 were mostly  किसानो जो sought आउट the सबसे उत्पादक  land , where their intensive farming techniques would pay off .
After 1840 , many  आए to शहरों , जहाँ `` germania '' —german-speaking  districts—soon emerged .
German Americans established the first  kindergartens in the संयुक्त राज्य , introduced the क्रिसमस पेड़ परंपरा , और originated  popular American foods such as hot dogs and hamburgers .
जर्मनी अमरीकी जश्न हैं आयोजित throughout the देश , एक of the सबसे  well-known being the German-American Steuben Parade in New York City , held every third Saturday in September .
There are also major annual events in  शिकागो , सिनसिनाटी , मिल्वौकी , पिट्सबर्ग , st. लुई और  other cities .
Like many other immigrants that came to the United States , an overwhelming number of people  of जर्मनी or आंशिक जर्मनी descent have essentially  become Americanized .
The Preamble to the United States Constitution is a brief introductory  बयान of the संविधान 's आधारभूत उद्देश्य और guiding सिद्धान्त  .
It states in general terms , and courts have referred to it as reliable evidence of , the Founding Fathers ' intentions regarding the  संविधान 's अर्थ और कया वे hoped the संविधान होता achieve as it pertains to  all of the people of the United States .
As the phrase , `` we the people '' suggests  कि the नई सरकारी originates इससे the लोगों of the संयुक्त राज्य और it सेट into गति a सवाल as it pertains to कि विशाल जनसांख्यिकी concerning the व्यक्तिगत अधिकारों और समता among सब लोगों ; इस can be देखी सबसे broadly in the  divide between republicanism and social democracy .
The history of the Internet began with the development of  इलेक्ट्रॉनिक कंप्यूटर in the 1950s  .
The public was first introduced to the concepts that would lead to the Internet when a message was sent  over the arpanet इससे कंप्यूटर विज्ञान प्राध्यापक लियोनार्ड kleinrock 's प्रयोगशाला at विश्वविद्यालयों of कैलिफ़ोर्निया , लॉस एंजिल्स  ( UCLA ) , after the second piece of network equipment was installed at Stanford Research Institute ( SRI ) .
Packet switched networks  ऐसे as arpanet , चिह्नित i at npl in the uk , cyclades , मेरिट संजाल , tymnet , और telenet  , were developed in the late 1960s and early 1970s using a variety of protocols .
The ARPANET in particular led to the development of protocols for  internetworking , in जिससे अनेक पृथक संजाल could be joined साथ  into a network of networks .
In 1982 , the Internet protocol suite (  tcp/ip ) थी मानकीकृत , और नतीजतन , the अवधारणा of a world-wide संजाल of interconnected  TCP/IP networks , called the Internet , was introduced .
Access to the ARPANET was expanded in 1981 when the National Science Foundation ( NSF ) developed the  कंप्यूटर विज्ञान संजाल ( csnet ) और again in 1986 जब nsfnet provided अभिगम to महासंगणक साइट in  the United States from research and education organizations .
Commercial Internet service providers ( ISPs ) began to  emerge in the लेट 1980s और जल्दी 1990s  .
The  arpanet थी decommissioned  in 1990 .
The Internet was  commercialized in 1995 जब nsfnet थी decommissioned , निकालना  the last restrictions on the use of the Internet to carry commercial traffic .
Since the mid-1990s , the Internet has had a revolutionary impact on culture  और कॉमर्स , सहित the वृद्धि of near-instant संचार by इलेक्ट्रॉनिक मेल , तत्काल messaging , आवाज़ over अंतरजाल प्रोटोकॉल ( voip ) `` फोन काल्स '' , two-way  interactive video calls , and the World Wide Web with its discussion forums , blogs , social networking , and online shopping sites .
The research and education community continues to develop and use advanced  संजाल ऐसे as nsf 's बहुत ऊँची गति रीढ़ संजाल सेवा  ( vBNS ) , Internet2 , and National LambdaRail .
Increasing amounts of data are  transmitted at उच्चतर और उच्चतर speeds over रेशा  optic networks operating at 1-Gbit/s , 10-Gbit/s , or more .
The Internet 's takeover over the global communication landscape was almost instant in historical terms : it only communicated 1 % of the information flowing through two-way telecommunications networks in the year  1993 , already 51 % by 2000 , और अधिक than 97 % of the telecommunicated सूचना  by 2007 .
Today the Internet continues to grow , driven by ever greater amounts of online  सूचना , कॉमर्स , entertainment , और सोशल  networking .
दक्षिणपश्चिम एयरलाइंस co. ( ) is a प्रमुख u.S. एयरलाइन और the संसार 's  largest low-cost carrier , headquartered in Dallas , Texas .
It  थी स्थापित in 1967 और अपनाया  its current name in 1971 .
The airline has more than 46,000  कर्मचारी और operates अधिक than 3,400 फ़्लाइट  per day .
As of June 5 , 2011 , it carries the most  घरेलू यात्री  of any U.S. airline .
As of April 2013 , Southwest Airlines  रै अनुसूचित सेवा to 84 गंतव्यों in 41 राज्य और प्यूर्टो  Rico .
Southwest Airlines has solely operated Boeing 737s , except for  a few सालो in the 1970s और 1980s , जब it संचालित  Boeing 727s .
As of August 2012 , Southwest is the largest  ऑपरेटर of the 737 विश्वव्यापी साथ over 550  in service , each operating an average of six flights per day .
In May 2011 , the airline acquired AirTran  एयरवेज़ , साथ संयोजन of the वाहक अपेक्षित to be  complete by 2014 .
On March 1  , 2012 , the कम्पनी थी जारी a सिंगल ऑपरेटिंग  certificate , technically becoming one airline .
Rolling Rock is  a 4.6 % abv पाले lager शुभारम्भ in  1939 by the Latrobe Brewing Company .
Although founded as a local beer in Western Pennsylvania , it was marketed  aggressively और आखिरकार became a नेशनल उत्पाद  .
The brand was sold to Anheuser-Busch of  st. लुई , मिसौरी , in मिड 2006 ,  which transferred brewing operations to New Jersey .
बेनेडिक्ट xvi ( , , ; born जोसेफ aloisius ratzinger on 16 अप्रैल  1927 ) is Pope emeritus of the Catholic Church .
He  परोसा as पोप इससे 2005  to 2013 .
In that position  , he थी दोनो the नेता of the कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर और  Sovereign of the Vatican City State .
Benedict was elected on 19 April 2005 in a  papal conclave , मनाये उसके papal उद्घाटन द्रव्यमान on 24 अप्रैल 2005 , और took  possession of his cathedral , the Archbasilica of St. John Lateran , on 7 May 2005 .
ordained as a पुजारी in 1951 in उसके देशी बायर्न , ratzinger स्थापित खुद as a अत्यधिक  regarded university theologian by the late 1950s and was appointed a full professor in 1958 .
After a long career as an  अकादमिक , सेवारत as a प्राध्यापक of धर्मशास्त्र at अनेक जर्मनी universities—the पिछला होने the विश्वविद्यालयों of regensburg , जहाँ  he served as Vice President of the university in 1976 and 1977—he was appointed Archbishop of Munich and Freising and cardinal by Pope Paul VI in 1977 , an unusual promotion for someone with little pastoral experience .
In  1981 , he settled in रोम जब he became prefect of the सभा लिये the doctrine of the आस्था  , one of the most important dicasteries of the Roman Curia .
From 2002 until his election as pope , he was also Dean of the  कॉलेज of कार्डिनल्स , और as ऐसे , the प्राइमस इंटर pares among the कार्डिनल्स  .
Prior to  बनने पोप , he थी `` a प्रमुख फिगर on the वेटिकन स्टेज लिये a क्वार्टर of a सदी '' as `` एक of the सबसे आदरणीय , influential  and controversial members of the College of Cardinals '' ; he had an influence `` second to none when it came to setting church priorities and directions '' as one of Pope John Paul II 's closest confidants .
He was  originally a उदार theologian , लकिन अपनाया  conservative views after 1968 .
His prolific  कृतियाँ बचाव परंपरागत  Catholic doctrine and values .
दौरान उसके papacy , बेनेडिक्ट xvi  advocated a return to fundamental Christian values to counter the increased secularisation of many Western countries .
He views relativism 's denial of objective truth , and  the denial of moral सच्चाई in particular , as the सेंट्रल प्रॉब्लम  of the 21st century .
He taught  the महत्व of दोनो the कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर और an समझना  of God 's redemptive love .
पोप बेनेडिक्ट भी revived a क्रमांक of परंपराओं सहित  elevating the Tridentine Mass to a more prominent position .
He renewed the relationship between the Catholic Church and art , viewing the use of beauty as a path to the sacred , promoted the use of  लैटिन , और reintroduced परंपरागत papal garments , लिये जिससे कारण he थी पुकारा `` the पोप  of aesthetics '' .
he रै महरूम वर्णित as `` the प्रमुख बौद्धिक  force in the Church '' since the mid-1980s .
अनेक of पोप बेनेडिक्ट 's विद्यार्थी इससे  his academic career are also prominent churchmen today and confidantes of him , notably Christoph Schönborn .
On 11 February 2013 , Pope Benedict announced his  इस्तीफा in a वाक in लैटिन पहले the कार्डिनल्स , citing a `` कमी of शक्ति of दिमाग और देह '' due to उसके  advanced age .
His resignation  became प्रभावी on 28 फ़रवरी 2013  .
He is the first pope to resign since Pope  ग्रेगरी बारहवीं in 1415 , और the पहला to do so on उसके अपना पहल चूंकि पोप celestine  V in 1294 .
As  पोप emeritus , बेनेडिक्ट retains the स्टाइल of उसके पवित्रता , और the शीर्षक of  Pope , and will continue to dress in the papal colour of white .
He was succeeded by Pope Francis on 13  कूच 2013 , और he स्थानांतरित into the newly संवर मेटर  Ecclesiae monastery for his retirement on 2 May 2013..
Pocket  stereoscope साथ असली  test image .
प्रयुक्त by सैन्य to जाँचें stereoscopic  pairs of aerial photographs .
View of Boston , c. 1860 ; an early  stereoscopic कार्ड लिये देखने a झाँकी इससे  nature
Kaiser-Panorama  consisted of a multi-station देखने  apparatus and sets of stereo slides .
Patented by A.  fuhrmann around 1890 .
Company of ladies watching stereoscopic  छायाचित्र , पेंटिंग by याक़ूब  Spoel , before 1868 .
A very early depiction  of लोगों using a stereoscope  .
Stereoscopy ( also called stereoscopics or 3D imaging ) is a technique for  बनाना or बढ़ाना the भ्रम of गहराई in an चित्र by अर्थात् of stereopsis लिये binocular  vision .
The  शब्द stereoscopy गर्भाशयी इससे the यूनानी `` στερεός '' ( stereos ) , `` कड़ , ठोस  '' + `` σκοπέω '' ( skopeō ) , `` to look '' , `` to see '' .
Most stereoscopic methods present two offset images  separately to the बाएँ और सही नजर  of the viewer .
These two-dimensional  बिंब हैं तब संयुक्त in the दिमाग  to give the perception of 3D depth .
This technique is distinguished from 3D displays that display an image in three full dimensions , allowing  the निरीक्षक to बढ़ाएँ सूचना परिचय the 3-dimensional वस्तुएँ होने प्रदर्शित by सिर और नजर  movements .
John Adams ( October 30 , 1735 ( O.S . October 19 , 1735 ) – July 4 , 1826 ) was the second president of the United States (  1797–1801 ) , having पहले परोसा as the पहला वाइस अध्यक्ष  of the United States .
An American Founding Father , he was a statesman  , राजनयिक , और a अग्रणी एडवोकेट  of American independence from Great Britain .
Well  शिक्षित , he थी an आत्मज्ञान राजनैतिक theorist जो प्रचारित republicanism  and wrote prolifically about his often seminal ideas , both in published works and in letters to his wife and key adviser Abigail as well as to other Founding Fathers .
Adams came to  prominence  in the early stages of the American Revolution .
A lawyer and public  फिगर in बोस्टन , as a प्रतिनिधि इससे मैसाचुसेट्स  to the Continental Congress , he played a leading role in persuading Congress to declare independence .
He assisted Thomas  जेफरसन in drafting the घोषणा  of Independence in 1776 , and was its primary advocate in the Congress .
Later , as a diplomat in Europe , he helped negotiate the eventual peace treaty  साथ ग्रेट ब्रिटेन , और थी जिम्मेदार लिये obtaining vital सरकारी लोन इससे एम्सटर्डम  bankers .
A political theorist and historian , Adams largely wrote the  मैसाचुसेट्स संविधान in 1780 , जिससे साथ साथ उसके पहले विचार on सरकारी , बहकावे अमरीकी  political thought .
One of his  महानतम भूमिकाएँ थी as a न्यायधीश of अक्षर : in 1775 , he मनोनीत जार्ज वॉशिंगटन to be commander-in-chief , और 25 सालो बाद मनोनीत जॉन मार्शल  to be Chief Justice of the United States .
Adams '  क्रांतिकारी श्रेय secured उसे दो शर्तें as जार्ज वॉशिंगटन 's वाइस अध्यक्ष और उसके  own election in 1796 as the second president .
During his one term , he encountered ferocious attacks by the Jeffersonian Republicans , as  खूब as the प्रबल गुट in उसके अपना federalist पार्टी led by उसके कड़वा दुश्मन सिकंदर हैमिल्टन  .
Adams signed the controversial Alien and Sedition Acts , and built up  the फौज और नेवी विशेषकर in the फेस of an undeclared नवल युद्ध ( पुकारा the `` quasi-war `` ) साथ फ़्रांस  , 1798–1800 .
The major  accomplishment of उसके प्रेसिडेंसी थी उसके शांतिपूर्ण रेज़ोल्यूशन of  the conflict in the face of Hamilton 's opposition .
In 1800 , Adams was  पराजित लिये re-election by थामस जेफरसन और  retired to Massachusetts .
He later resumed  उसके दोस्ती साथ जेफरसन  .
He and his wife , Abigail Adams , founded an  संपन्नता परिवार लकीर of राजनेता , राजनयिकों , और इतिहासकारों अभी referred to as the एडम्स  political family .
Adams  थी the पिता of जॉन क्विंसी एडम्स , the  sixth President of the United States .
His achievements have received greater  मान्यता in आधुनिक टाइम्स , हालांकि उसके योगदान यहूद  not initially as celebrated as those of other Founders .
Adams was the first U.S. president to reside  in the भवन कि आखिरकार became  known as the White House .
The United States ten-dollar bill ( $ 10 ) is a  denomination of संयुक्त राज्य करेंसी  .
The first U.S. Secretary of the Treasury (  1789–95 ) , सिकंदर हैमिल्टन , is फिलहाल प्रदर्शित on the  obverse of the bill , while the U.S. Treasury Building is featured on the reverse .
(  हैमिल्टन is एक of दो non-presidents  featured on currently issued U.S. bills .
The other is Benjamin  फ्रैंकलिन , on the $ 100 विधेयक  .
Hamilton is one of  तभी चार लोगों प्रदर्शित on u.S. पेपर करेंसी ( 1861 to  the present ) who was not born in the continental United States , as he was from the West Indies .
The others are : Albert Gallatin , Switzerland ( $ 500 1862/63 Legal Tender ) ; George  meade , स्पेन ( $ 1,000 1890/91 राजकोष नोट ) ; और रॉबर्ट मॉरिस , इंग्लैण्ड ( $ 1,000 1862/63 विधिक टेंडर ;  $ 10 1878/80 Silver Certificate ) .
In addition , Kamehameha I  , appears on the 2008 हवाई  state quarter . )
All $ 10 bills  जारी आज हैं संघीय  Reserve Notes .
The Bureau of  नक्काशी और मुद्रण says the औसत जीवन of a $ 10 विधेयक  in circulation is 18 months before it is replaced due to wear .
लगभग 6 % of सब us banknotes मुद्रित  in 2009 were $ 10 bills .
Ten  डालर बिल्स हैं वितरित by संघीय  Reserve Banks in yellow straps .
The source  of the फेस on the $ 10 विधेयक is जॉन trumbull ’s 1805 पोर्ट्रेट  of Hamilton that belongs to the portrait collection of New York City Hall .
The $ 10 bill is  the तभी u.S. पेपर करेंसी in परिसंचरण in जिससे the पोर्ट्रेट चेहरों to the बाएँ ( the  $ 100,000 bill featured a portrait of Woodrow Wilson facing to the left , but was used only for intra-government transactions ) .
A rider on a Yamaha Waverunner  xl performing a high-speed फेरे  .
A jetboat is a boat  propelled by a जेट of जल ejected  from the back of the craft .
Unlike a powerboat or motorboat that  उपयोग a propeller in the जल नीचे or पीछे the नाव , a jetboat draws the जल इससे अंतर्गत the नाव into a  pump inside the boat , then expels it through a nozzle at the stern .
Jetboats were originally designed by Sir William Hamilton ( who developed a waterjet in 1954 ) for operation in the  fast-flowing और उथले नदियाँ of नई जीलैंड , specifically to overcome  the problem of propellers striking rocks in such waters .
Previous attempts at waterjet propulsion had very short lifetimes , generally due to  the अकुशल डिज़ाइन of the इकाई और the फैक्ट कि वे offered few लाभ over conventional  propellers .
Unlike these previous waterjet developments ,  ऐसे as campini 's और the hanley hydrojet , हैमिल्टन था a विशिष्ट need  for a propulsion system to operate in very-shallow water , and the waterjet proved to be the ideal solution .
From  इस , the लोकप्रियता of the जेट ईकाई  and jetboat increased rapidly .
Through further developments , it  थी मिला the waterjet offered अनेक अन्य लाभ over propellers लिये a चौड़ी दायरा  of vessel types , and as such , waterjets are used widely today for many high-speed vessels , including passenger ferries , rescue craft , patrol boats and offshore supply vessels .
Jetboats  हैं अत्यधिक maneuverable , और अनेक can , इससे पूरा गति , be reversed और brought to  a stop within little more than their own length , in a maneuver known as a `` crash stop '' .
The well known Hamilton turn or `` jet spin '' is a high-speed maneuvre where the boat 's engine throttle is cut , the steering is  turned sharply और the throttle खोली again , causing the नाव to स्पिन जल्दी  around with a large spray of water .
There is no engineering limit to the size of jetboats ,  हालांकि the वैध of उनके उपयोग depends a लॉट on the प्रकार of अनुप्रयोग  .
Classic prop-drives are generally  अधिक कुशल और किफायती at कम speeds , up to परिचय , लकिन as नाव गति increases परे इस , the  extra hull resistance generated by struts , rudders , shafts ( etc . ) means waterjets are more efficient in the 20-50 knot range ( up to ) .
Also , in situations with very  विशाल propellers turning at slow speeds ( ऐसे as tug  boats ) , the equivalent size waterjet would be too big to be practical .
For these reasons , the vast  बहुमत of waterjet इकाई हैं संस्थापित in high-speed बरतन और in particular परिस्थितियों जहाँ उथले draught  , maneuverability , and load flexibility are main concerns .
The  biggest jet-driven बरतन हैं मिला in सैन्य उपयोग  or the high-speed passenger/car ferry industry .
South  अफ़्रीकी 's s ( लगभग long  ) are the biggest jet-propelled vessels so far .
Even these German-built  बरतन हैं सक्षम of performing  `` crash stops '' .
uveitis is broadly पारिभाषित as सूजन  of the uvea .
the uvea consists of the मध्य , pigmented , vascular structures  of the eye and includes the iris , ciliary body , and choroid .
Uveitis requires an urgent referral and thorough  परिक्षा by an ophthalmologist or optometrist साथ साथ तात्कालिक उपचार  to control the inflammation .
Eric  `` e . ''
Murphy is a  fictional अक्षर on the comedy-drama टेलीविज़न  series Entourage .
He is  निभाई by केविन connolly  .
The Shining is a 1980 psychological horror  फिल्मी उत्पादित और निर्देशित by स्टेनली kubrick , co-written साथ उपन्यासकार डायने जॉनसन , और अभिनीत जोकर निकोल्सन , शेली duvall , scatman  Crothers , and Danny Lloyd .
The film is based on  the स्टीफन किंग अनोखा  The Shining .
A writer ,  जोकर torrance , takes a जॉब as an off-season  caretaker at an isolated hotel .
His young son possesses  मानसिक abilities और is समर्थ to देखिए बाते इससे the पास्ट और भविष्य  , such as the ghosts who inhabit the hotel .
Soon after settling in , the family is trapped in the hotel by a snowstorm , and Jack gradually becomes  बहकावे by a अलौकिक उपस्थिति ; he उतरता into दीवानगी और कोशिशें to हत्या उसके  wife and son .
Unlike previous  kubrick films , जिससे विकसित an दर्शक धीरे by भवन  on word-of-mouth , The Shining was released as a mass-market film , opening at first in just two cities on Memorial Day , then nationwide a month later .
Although initial response to the film was mixed , later  नाजुक मूल्यांकन थी अधिक अनुकूल और it is अभी viewed as a क्लासिक of the हॉरर विधा  .
Film director Martin Scorsese ,  लिखने in the रोज़ जानवर , क्रमित it as एक of the 11 scariest  horror movies of all time .
Film critics , film students , and Kubrick 's  निर्माता , जन harlan , have remarked on the  enormous influence the film has had on popular culture .
The initial European release of The Shining  थी 25 मिनट्स shorter than the अमरीकी संस्करण , हासिल by निकालना सबसे of the  scenes taking place outside the environs of the hotel .
आँगन कोला  Bottle
आँगन आहार कोला थी a ब्रांड  of diet soda introduced by Pepsi in 1963 .
It was created in response to  आहार रीति कोला , जिससे थी the पहला आहार  cola on the market .
Fitness  प्रवर्तक डिब्बी ड्रेक थी आँगन आहार कोला 's प्रवक्ता  .
In  1964 , आँगन released नारंगी ,  grape , and root beer flavors .
This  स्वाद लकीर थी नहीं meant to compete साथ ब्रांड्स  like Orange Crush , but rather fill out the line .
Patio sodas were available in the  cold-bottle मार्केट : किराना  and mom-and-pop stores .
विज्ञापन लिये आँगन थी comparatively scarce ; at the समय , bottlers यहूद regionally franchised , और  related advertising was necessarily local .
In 1964 , Patio diet  कोला became आहार पेप्सी  .
The newly branded diet soda was advertised alongside Pepsi with the tagline `` Pepsi  either रास्ता '' , जिससे replaced the स्लोगन `` dances  with flavor '' .
The short  जीवन स्पैन of आँगन आहार  cola makes it a great addition for bottle collectors .
Most of the remaining Patio line of flavors were phased  आउट by the जल्दी 1970s , जबकि a few बच जबतक the  mid 70s
अवसंरचना is मौलिक शारीरिक और organizational structures needed लिये the आपरेशन of a समाज or एंटरप्राइज़  , or the services and facilities necessary for an economy to function .
It can be generally defined as the set of  interconnected संरचनात्मक तत्व कि provide फ्रेमवर्क supporting an संपूर्ण  structure of development .
It is  an महत्वपूर्ण पद लिये judging a देश  or region 's development .
The  पद typically refers to the तकनीकी structures कि support a समाज , ऐसे as सड़कें , पुलों , जल सप्लाई , sewers , विद्युत ग्रिड , दूरसंचार , और so forth , और can be पारिभाषित as `` the  physical components of interrelated systems providing commodities and services essential to enable , sustain , or enhance societal living conditions . ''
Viewed functionally , infrastructure facilitates the production of  goods और सेवाएं , और भी the वितरण of समाप्त उत्पाद to बाज़ार , as खूब as मौलिक सोशल सेवाएं  such as schools and hospitals ; for example , roads enable the transport of raw materials to a factory .
In military parlance , the term refers to the buildings and permanent  संस्थापना जरुरी लिये the support , redeployment , और आपरेशन of  military forces .
To make it simple , infrastructure is anything  कि is needed रोज , an रोज  item .
A graphical representation of  the आदर्श इंसान karyotype
mitochondrial डीएनए  .
Human genetic variation is the genetic differences  दोनो भीतर और among populations  .
There may  be अनेक विसंगतियाँ of कोई दिए जीन  in the human population ( genes ) , leading to polymorphism .
अनेक जीनों हैं नहीं बहुरूपी , अर्थ कि तभी a सिंगल allele is  present in the population : the gene is then said to be fixed .
no दो इंसानो हैं  genetically identical .
Even  monozygotic जुड़वा , जो develop इससे एक zygote , have infrequent जेनेटिक मतभेद due to mutations occurring  during development and gene copy number variation .
Differences between individuals ,  भी closely सम्बन्धित individuals , हैं the कुंजी  to techniques such as genetic fingerprinting .
Alleles occur at different frequencies  in अलग इंसान populations , साथ populations कि हैं अधिक  geographically and ancestrally remote tending to differ more .
कल्याणकारी of मतभेद between individuals शामिल the एक्सचेंज  of genes during meiosis and various mutational events .
There  हैं at तनिक दो कारण क्यों जेनेटिक  variation exists between populations .
Natural selection may  confer an अनुकूली लाभ to individuals in a विशिष्ट पर्यावरण  if an allele provides a competitive advantage .
Alleles under selection are  संभावित to occur तभी in those भौगोलिक regions  where they confer an advantage .
The  दूसरी प्रमुख कारण of जेनेटिक विभिन्नता is due to the ऊँची  degree of neutrality of most mutations .
Most mutations do not appear to  have कोई चयनात्मक  effect one way or the other on the organism .
The main cause is genetic  बहाव , इस is the प्रभाव of यादृच्छिक  changes in the gene pool .
In humans ,  संस्थापक प्रभाव और पास्ट छोटी जनसांख्यिकी आकार ( increasing the likelihood of जेनेटिक  drift ) may have had an important influence in neutral differences between populations .
The theory that  इंसानो recently migrated आउट  of Africa supports this .
The study of human genetic  विभिन्नता रै दोनो विकासवादी significance और  medical applications .
It can help  वैज्ञानिकों समझे प्राचीन इंसान जनसांख्यिकी migrations as खूब  as how different human groups are biologically related to one another .
लिये आयुर्विज्ञान , पढ़ाई of इंसान जेनेटिक विभिन्नता  may be important because some disease-causing alleles occur more often in people from specific geographic regions .
New findings show  कि प्रत्येक इंसान रै on औसत 60 नई  mutations compared to their parents .
Apart from  mutations , अनेक जीनों कि may have  aided humans in ancient times plague humans today .
For example , it is suspected that genes that  allow इंसानो to अधिक efficiently प्रक्रम खाना हैं those कि मेक लोगों susceptible  to obesity and diabetes today .
Tea Party protesters on the West Lawn of the U.S. Capitol and the  नेशनल मॉल at the करदाताओं कूच on वॉशिंगटन on सितंबर 12  , 2009 .
The Tea Party movement is an American political movement that advocates strict adherence to the United States  संविधान , reducing u.S. सरकारी बिता और कर , और कटौती of the u.S. नेशनल कर्ज़ और संघीय बजट  deficit .
The movement  रै महरूम पुकारा  partly conservative , partly libertarian , and partly populist .
The movement has  प्रायोजित विरोध और समर्थित राजनैतिक उम्मीदवार  since 2009 .
The name of the movement is derived from the Boston  चाय पार्टी of 1773 , an iconic इवेंट in अमरीकी  history .
Anti-tax protesters in the United States have  प्रायः referred to the असली बोस्टन चाय पार्टी  for inspiration .
सन्दर्भ to the बोस्टन चाय पार्टी यहूद भाग of कर  Day protests held throughout the 1990s and earlier .
By 2001 , a custom had developed  among कुछ रूढ़िवादी कार्यकर्ताओं of mailing चाय बैग to विधायक और  other officials as a symbolic act .
The  मुद्राएँ of प्यूर्टो रीको closely follow  the historic development of Puerto Rico .
As a colony of Spain and the United States , Puerto Rico was granted  the उपयोग of दोनो विदेशी और प्रांतीय मुद्राएँ  .
Following the Spanish  colonization in 1502 , प्यूर्टो रीको became an महत्वपूर्ण  port , with its own supply of gold .
however , as the खनिज reserves भागा खाली भीतर the  century , the archipelago 's economy suffered .
The Spanish Crown issued the Situado  mexicano , जिससे meant कि a semi-regular शिपमेंट of सुनहरा इससे the viceroyalty of नई स्पेन होता  be sent to the island , as a way to provide economic support .
Between 1636 and 1637 , Philip IV of Spain imposed a tax  जिससे था to be सशुल्क using a  revenue stamp .
Inspired  by इस , प्यूर्टो रीको began producing banknotes in 1766 , बनने the पहला उपनिवेश to छपाई 8-  real banknotes in the Spanish Empire and which in the Spanish government 's approval of subsequent issues .
the situado थी discontinued दौरान the 19th सदी , बनाना an आर्थिक  crisis , as a result of Mexico gaining its independence from Spain .
Salvador Meléndez Bruna , the colonial  राज्यपाल in दफ्तर , ordered the समस्या of प्रांतीय banknotes  , creating the Puerto Rican peso .
However  , मुद्रण of ये banknotes  ceased after 1815 .
During the following decades ,  विदेशी सिक्के became the फैली करेंसी  .
in the 1860s और  1870s , banknotes reemerged .
On February 1 , 1890 , the Banco Español  de प्यूर्टो रीको थी उदघाटन और began issuing  banknotes .
The bank designed  चार श्रेणी और लगाई तीन in  circulation under Spanish rule .
In 1895 , a Royal  डिक्री ordered the उत्पादन  of provincial peso coins .
On August 13 , 1898 , the Spanish-American War ended with Spain ceding  प्यूर्टो रीको to the संयुक्त राज्य  .
The Banco Español de Puerto Rico was renamed Bank of Porto Rico and  जारी बिल्स समतुल्य to the संयुक्त राज्य डालर , बनाना the प्यूर्टो rican  dollar .
In 1902 , the First  नेशनल बैंको of पोर्टो रीको जारी banknotes in a समानांतर  manner .
Two more  श्रेणी यहूद जारी जबतक  1913 .
After Puerto Rico 's economy and monetary system was fully integrated into the United  राज्य ' आर्थिक और मौद्रिक प्रणाली , the प्यूर्टो rican डॉलर यहूद redeemed लिये those जारी by the संयुक्त राज्य  Treasury .
The peso and dollar have been followed by other contemporary issues , including commemorative banknotes ,  निजी करेंसी , और a क्वार्टर सिक्का designed साथ फोर्ट सैन  Felipe del Morro in the face .
Pepsi ( stylized in lowercase as  पेप्सी , formerly stylized in अपरकेस as पेप्सी ) is a कार्बोनेटेड नरम पेय  that is produced and manufactured by PepsiCo .
Created and developed in 1893 and  introduced as ब्रैड 's पेय , it थी renamed  as Pepsi-Cola on August 28 , 1898 , then to Pepsi in 1961 .
The Book of Ezekiel is the third of  the latter नबियों in the यहूदी बाइबल ,  following the books of Isaiah and Jeremiah and preceding the Book of the Twelve .
( The order is somewhat  अलग in the ईसाई बूढ़ा  Testament ) .
It derives its name  इससे , और रिकॉर्ड the visions of , the 6th  century BC priest and prophet Ezekiel .
According to the book , the prophet , exiled in Babylon , experienced a series of seven visions during the 22 years from  593 to 571 bc , a काल जिससे spans the फाइनल विनाश of  Jerusalem in 586 .
The visions , and  the किताब , हैं संरचित around तीन विषयवस्तु : ( 1 ) निर्णय on इसराईल ( अध्याय 1-24 ) ; ( 2 )  judgment on the nations ( chapters 25-32 ) ; and future blessings for Israel ( chapters 33-48 ) .
New Orleans ( or , locally or ; ) is a major United States port and the largest  नगर और महानगर क्षेत्रफल in the राज्य of louisiana  .
the जनसांख्यिकी of the नगर थी 343,829  as of the 2010 U.S. Census .
The New Orleans metropolitan area ( New Orleans–Metairie–Kenner Metropolitan  सांख्यिकीय क्षेत्रफल ) था a जनसांख्यिकी of 1,167,764 in 2010 और थी the 46th largest in the संयुक्त राज्य  .
The New Orleans–Metairie–Bogalusa Combined  सांख्यिकीय क्षेत्रफल , a larger व्यापार क्षेत्रफल , था a 2010 जनसांख्यिकी  of 1,214,932 .
the नगर is नामित बाद orléans , a नगर स्तिथ on the  Loire River in Centre , France , and is well known for its distinct French Creole architecture , as well as its cross-cultural and multilingual heritage .
New Orleans is also  प्रसिद्ध लिये इसके भोजन , म्यूज़िक ( विशेषकर as the जन्मस्थान of जैज़  ) , and its annual celebrations and festivals , most notably Mardi Gras .
The city is often referred to  as the `` सबसे अद्वितीय '' in अमेरिका .
New Orleans is located in  southeastern louisiana , straddling the मिसिसिपी  River .
The  नगर और ऑरलियन्स  Parish ( ) are .
The city and parish are bounded by the parishes of St. Tammany to  the उत्तर , st. बर्नार्ड to the ईस्ट , plaquemines to the दक्षिण और जेफरसन  to the south and west .
Lake Pontchartrain  , भाग of जिससे is शामिल in the नगर हद , झूठ to  the north and Lake Borgne lies to the east .
The National Birth Control  लीग थी a जनम कंट्रोल  organization in the United States .
It was founded in March 1915 by Mary Dennett ,  क्लारा gruening stillman और जेसी एशले .
Its main purpose was to overturn  the कानून जिससे बैन contraceptives इससे the  U.S. mails .
Campaigns were  आरोहित in नई यॉर्क , लकिन in 1919 the लीग  was disbanded and reformed into the Voluntary Parenthood League .
Cancer , known medically as a malignant neoplasm , is a broad  समूह of विभिन्न रोगों , सब involving  unregulated cell growth .
In cancer , cells divide and grow uncontrollably , forming malignant  tumors , और invade आसपास भाग of  the body .
The cancer may also spread to more distant parts of the body  through the lymphatic प्रणाली or bloodstream .
Not all  tumors हैं cancerous  .
Benign tumors do not grow uncontrollably , do not invade  neighboring ऊतकों , और do नहीं स्प्रेड throughout  the body .
There are  over 200 अलग ज्ञात cancers  that afflict humans .
determining कया कल्याणकारी कर्कट  is complex .
Many things are known to increase the  रिस्क of कर्कट , सहित तम्बाकू उपयोग , निश्चित infections , विकिरण , कमी of शारीरिक कार्यकलाप  , obesity , and environmental pollutants .
These can directly damage genes or combine  साथ मौजूदा जेनेटिक त्रुटियां भीतर  cells to cause the disease .
लगभग पाँच to  ten percent of cancers are entirely hereditary .
Cancer can be detected in a number of ways , including the presence of  निश्चित लक्षण और लक्षण , स्क्रीनिंग  tests , or medical imaging .
Once a possible cancer  is detected it is diagnosed by microscopic परिक्षा  of a tissue sample .
Cancer is usually treated with  कीमोथेरेपी , विकिरण चिकित्सा  and surgery .
The chances of surviving the disease vary greatly by the type and  स्थान of the कर्कट और the extent of बीमारी at the प्रारंभ of उपचार  .
While  कर्कट can affect लोगों of सब आयु , और a few प्रकार  of cancer are more common in children , the risk of developing cancer generally increases with age .
In 2007 , cancer  caused परिचय 13 % of सब इंसान मौतों विश्वव्यापी  ( 7.9 million ) .
Rates  हैं उठती as अधिक लोगों सजीव to an बूढ़ा आयु और  as mass lifestyle changes occur in the developing world .
Spring ski touring on  hardangervidda , नार्वे
Skiing is a  recreational कार्यकलाप और प्रतिस्पर्धी खेल in जिससे the भागीदार attaches long  runners or skis to boots or shoes on the feet and uses them to travel on top of snow .
Aside from recreation and competition , skiing has been used for military  उद्देश्य और भी यात्राएं in क्षेत्रों कि अनुभव भारी हिमपात  .
Many types of competitive skiing  कार्यक्रम हैं पहचाना by the अंतरराष्ट्रीय ओलम्पिक कमेटी , और the अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Ski Federation .
John Maynard Keynes , 1st Baron  keynes , cb , fba ( ; 5 जून 1883 – 21 अप्रैल 1946 ) थी a अंग्रेजों अर्थशास्त्री जिनकी विचार have fundamentally प्रभावित the सिद्धान्त और अभ्यास of आधुनिक  macroeconomics , and informed the economic policies of governments .
He built on and greatly refined  पहले कार्य on the कल्याणकारी of कारोबार चक्र , और is widely  considered to be one of the founders of modern macroeconomics and the most influential economist of the 20th century .
His  विचार हैं the आधार लिये the स्कूल of विचार ज्ञात as keynesian  economics , as well as its various offshoots .
In many ways , subsequent  developments in 20th सदी अर्थशास्त्र can be viewed as either भवन on keynes  ' ideas or reacting against them .
In the 1930s , Keynes spearheaded a revolution in economic thinking , overturning the older ideas of neoclassical economics that held that free markets  होता , in the छोटी to मीडियम पद , automatically provide पूरा नियुक्ति , as long as मजदूर  were flexible in their wage demands .
Keynes  बजाय argued कि कुल माँग संकल्पित the overall स्तर of  economic activity , and that inadequate aggregate demand could lead to prolonged periods of high unemployment .
He advocated the use  of फिस्कल और मौद्रिक उपायों to mitigate the प्रतिकूल  effects of economic recessions and depressions .
Following the outbreak of the Second World War , Keynes 's  विचार concerning आर्थिक नीति यहूद अपनाया by अग्रणी पश्चिमी economies  .
In 1942 , Keynes was awarded a  खानदानी peerage as सामन्त keynes of tilton in the काउंटी  of Sussex .
Keynes died in 1946 , but during the 1950s and 1960s the success of Keynesian economics resulted in almost all  पूंजीवादी सरकारें adopting  its policy recommendations .
Keynes 's influence waned in the 1970s , partly as a result of problems that began to afflict the  anglo-american economies इससे the प्रारंभ of the दशक , और partly क्युकी of critiques इससे मिल्टन फ्राइडमैन और अन्य अर्थशास्त्रियों जो यहूद pessimistic परिचय the क्षमता of सरकारें  to regulate the business cycle with fiscal policy .
However , the advent of the  वैश्विक वित्तीय संकट in 2007 caused a पुनरुत्थान  in Keynesian thought .
keynesian अर्थशास्त्र provided the सैद्धांतिक underpinning लिये आर्थिक नीतियों undertaken in जवाब to the संकट  by Presidents George W. Bush and Barack Obama of the United States , Prime Minister Gordon Brown of the United Kingdom , and other heads of governments .
In 1999 , Time magazine included Keynes in their list of  the 100 सबसे महत्वपूर्ण और influential लोगों of the 20th सदी , commenting कि  : `` His radical idea that governments should spend money they do n't have may have saved capitalism . ''
In addition to being an economist ,  keynes थी भी a सिविल नौकर , a निदेशक of the अंग्रेजों eugenics समाज , a निदेशक of the बैंको of इंग्लैण्ड , a संरक्षक of the कला और an आर्ट कलेक्टर , a भाग of the bloomsbury  Group of intellectuals , an advisor to several charitable trusts , a writer , a philosopher , a private investor , and a farmer .
This 1768 parchment ( 612×502 mm ) by  jekuthiel sofer emulated the 1675 टेन आयतें at the एम्सटर्डम  Esnoga synagogue .
The Ten Commandments , also known as the Decalogue , are a set of  biblical कानून relating to आचार और  worship , which play a fundamental role in Judaism , Islam and Christianity .
They include instructions to worship only God , to keep the sabbath holy and  prohibitions विरूद्ध idolatry , इनकार , हत्या , चोरी , deception और  adultery .
Different groups follow slightly different traditions for  interpreting और क्रमांकन उन्हें  .
The Ten Commandments appear  twice in the यहूदी बाइबल , in the किताबे  of Exodus and Deuteronomy .
According to the story in Exodus , God inscribed them on two  स्टोन टैबलेट , जिससे he  gave to Moses on Mount Sinai .
Modern scholarship has found likely influences  in hittite और mesopotamian कानून और treaties , लकिन is विभाजित  over exactly when the Ten Commandments were written and who wrote them .
The discography of the English alternative rock band The Smiths consists of four studio albums , one extended play (  ep ) , एक सजीव एल्बम , टेन संकलन एल्बम , बीस singles , एक वीडियो एल्बम और चौदह  music videos on the Rough Trade , Sire and WEA record labels .
The band was formed  in 1982 in मैनचेस्टर by vocalist morrissey , guitarist जॉनी marr , बास  player Andy Rourke and drummer Mike Joyce .
Despite being championed by BBC Radio 1 disc jockey John Peel , the band 's  डेब्यू सिंगल , `` हाथ in दस्ताने `` ( may  1983 ) , failed to chart .
Its follow-up , `` This Charming Man `` ( October 1983 ) , met  साथ नाजुक acclaim और पहुँचे क्रमांक twenty-five on the uk singles  Chart .
The Smiths ' cult status was followed by  मुख्यधारा कामयाबी in 1984 , as वे पहुँचे क्रमांक बारह in the uk साथ the `` कया अंतर करता  It Make ? `` single and reached number two on the UK Albums Chart with their debut album , The Smiths ( 1984 ) .
Their next three singles all reached the top twenty of the charts in the UK ,  helping to consolidate उनके पिछला चार्ट कामयाबी  .
The next studio album ,  मांस is हत्या ( 1985 ) , पहुँचे the शीर्ष of the अंग्रेजों चार्ट ; however , the तभी सिंगल to be released इससे the एल्बम , `` कि चुटकुला is n't मजेदार anymore `` (  1985 ) , failed to break the UK Top 40 .
Returning to form , The Smiths ' next  छह singles सब पहुँचे the उच्चतर than क्रमांक तीस in the uk और उनके  third album , The Queen Is Dead ( 1986 ) , reached number two in the UK .
Despite the band 's chart success , Marr left the  समूह in अगस्त 1987 due to a strained संबंध साथ morrissey  .
Failing to find  a बदलना , the smiths disbanded by the समय  their final studio album , Strangeways , Here We Come , was released in September that year .
Strangeways ,  यहाँ we आइये पहुँचे क्रमांक दो in the uk और became the बैंड 's highest-charting रिलीज in the  United States when it reached number fifty-five on the Billboard 200 .
In early 1992 , WEA acquired the entire back catalogue of  the smiths और उत्पादित दो compilations – बेहतरीन  ... I and ... Best II – the first of which reached the top of the UK Albums Chart .
WEA released two further singles compilations in 1995 and 2001 , with  a further संकलन , the ध्वनि of the smiths  , released in November 2008 .
Gone with the  हवा is a अनोखा लिखा by मार्गरेट मिशेल , पहला  published in 1936 .
It is often placed  in the साहित्यिक sub-genre of  the historical romance novel .
However , it has been argued the novel is a `` near  मिस '' और करता नहीं contain सब of the तत्व  of the romance genre , making it simply a historical novel .
The story is set in Clayton County ,  जॉर्जिया , और अटलांटा दौरान the अमरीकी सिविल युद्ध और पुनर्निर्माण  .
It depicts the experiences of Scarlett O'Hara , the spoiled  बेटी of a well-to-do वृक्षारोपण मालिक , जो जरूर उपयोग प्रत्येक अर्थात् at उसके निपटान  to come out of the poverty she finds herself in after Sherman 's `` March to the Sea '' .
Margaret Mitchell began writing Gone with  the हवा in 1926 to pass the समय जबकि recovering इससे  an auto-crash injury that refused to heal .
In April 1935 , Harold Latham of Macmillan , an editor  जो थी looking लिये नई fiction , पढ़ा कया वो था लिखा और देखी कि it  could be a best-seller .
After Latham agreed to publish the book , Mitchell worked for another six months  checking the ऐतिहासिक सन्दर्भ , और rewrote the खोलने  chapter several times .
Mitchell and her husband John Marsh , a copy editor by trade , edited  the फाइनल संस्करण of the अनोखा .
Mitchell wrote the book 's final moments  पहला , और तब लिखा the कार्यक्रम  that led up to it .
As to what became of her lovers , Rhett  और स्कारलेट , बाद the अनोखा ended , मिशेल किया नहीं जान , और कहा ,  `` For all I know , Rhett may have found someone else who was less difficult . ''
मिशेल प्राप्त  the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction for the book in 1937 .
the किताब थी adapted into a  1939 American film .
Gone with the Wind is the only  अनोखा by मिशेल प्रकाशित  during her lifetime .
Endodontics ( from  the यूनानी endo `` अंदर '' ; और odons `` दाँत '' ) is एक of the दंत specialties पहचाना by the अमरीकी दंत संघ , royal कॉलेज of dentists of कनाडा , और royal australasian  College of Dental Surgeons , and deals with the tooth pulp and the tissues surrounding the root of a tooth .
Endodontists perform a variety of procedures including endodontic therapy ( commonly known as ``  रूट कनाल चिकित्सा '' ) , endodontic retreatment , सर्जरी , treating cracked  teeth , and treating dental trauma .
रूट कनाल चिकित्सा is एक of  the most common procedures .
If the pulp ( containing  nerves , arterioles , venules , lymphatic ऊतक , और तंतुमय ऊतक ) becomes  diseased or injured , endodontic treatment is required to save the tooth .
Serial  संलग्न scsi ( sas ) is a point-to-point सीरियल प्रोटोकॉल कि चालें आंकड़ा to और इससे  computer storage devices such as hard drives and tape drives .
SAS replaces the older Parallel  scsi ( सुनाया `` scuzzy '' )  bus technology that first appeared in the mid-1980s .
sas , जैसे इसके पूर्ववर्ती , उपयोग  the standard SCSI command set .
sas offers पिछड़ा संगतता  with second-generation SATA drives .
SATA 3 Gbit/s drives may be connected to SAS  backplanes , लकिन sas ड्राइव can नहीं कनेक्ट to sata  backplanes .
The T10 technical committee of the International Committee for Information Technology Standards ( INCITS )  develops और maintains the sas प्रोटोकॉल ; the scsi व्यापार संघ ( scsita ) promotes the  technology .
Part of the  संवैधानिक प्रावधान as it appeared  in 1787
Status as a natural-born citizen of the United  राज्य is एक of the पात्रता आवश्यकताएँ स्थापित in the संयुक्त राज्य  Constitution for election to the office of President or Vice President .
This requirement was intended to protect the nation  इससे विदेशी influence  .
The Constitution does not define the phrase natural-born  नागरिक , और विभिन्न राय have महरूम offered  over time regarding its precise meaning .
a 2011 congressional शोध  Service report stated
The natural-born-citizen clause has been mentioned in passing in several decisions of the United States Supreme Court and lower courts dealing with the question of eligibility for citizenship by birth , but the Supreme Court has never directly  addressed the सवाल of a विशिष्ट अध्यक्षीय or vice-presidential प्रत्याशी 's पात्रता as a natural-born नागरिक  .
Kurtis Eugene `` Kurt '' Warner ( born June 22 , 1971 ) is a former  अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल खिलाड़ी  .
He  निभाई क्वार्टरबैक लिये तीन नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग ( एनएफएल )  teams : the St. Louis Rams , the New York Giants , and the Arizona Cardinals .
He was originally signed by the Green Bay Packers as  an undrafted फ़्री एजेंट in 1994 बाद playing कॉलेज  football at Northern Iowa .
Warner would go on to be considered the best undrafted player of  सब समय , following a 12-year करियर regarded as एक of the महानतम  stories in NFL history .
Warner first attained stardom  जबकि playing लिये the st. लुई मेढ़ों इससे 1998 to 2003 , जहाँ he जीती दो एनएफएल mvp पुरस्कार in 1999 और 2001 as  well as the Super Bowl MVP award in Super Bowl XXXIV .
He led the 2008 Arizona Cardinals to Super Bowl XLIII ( the franchise 's  पहला सुपर कटोरी berth ) , और owns the तीन उच्चतम single-game गुजर yardage योग in सुपर कटोरी  history .
Warner currently holds the seventh-highest career passer rating of  all-time ( 93.7 ) , और the third-highest करियर पूर्णता प्रतिशत  in NFL history with 65.5 % .
In 13 career playoff games , Warner ranks first all-time in completion percentage ( 66.5 % ) , yards per  attempt ( 8.55 ) , और दूसरी  in passer rating ( 102.8 ) .
He  भी holds the उच्चतम पूर्णता प्रतिशत लिये a सिंगल खेल दौरान the नियमित ऋतु , at 92.3  percent ( 24/26 ) , on September 20 , 2009 , against the Jacksonville Jaguars .
He announced his retirement  on जनवरी 29 , 2010. < संदर्भ name='cnn 2010-01-29  ' >
जेनेट काय ruthven hagan ( ; born may 26 , 1953 ) is the जूनियर संयुक्त राज्य सीनेटर  from North Carolina , in office since January 2009 .
Previously she  परोसा in the उत्तर कैरोलिना सीनेट इससे  1999 to 2009 .
She  is a सदस्य of the लोकतांत्रिक  Party and is viewed as a moderate member of her party .
When Hagan defeated Republican incumbent  एलिज़ाबेथ dole in the 2008 संयुक्त राज्य सीनेट चुनाव  , she became the first woman to defeat an incumbent woman in a Senate election .
The Heisman Memorial Trophy Award ( usually known colloquially as  the heisman ट्रॉफी or the heisman ) , is awarded annually to the खिलाड़ी deemed the  most outstanding player in collegiate football .
It was created  in 1935 as the शहर एथलेटिक क्लबों ट्रॉफी और renamed in 1936 following the मौत of the क्लबों 's एथलेटिक निदेशक , जॉन heisman ( पूर्व भूरा विश्वविद्यालयों और विश्वविद्यालयों of पेन्सिलवेनिया खिलाड़ी ; सिर  football coach at Oberlin College , Auburn University , Clemson University , Rice University , and the University of Pennsylvania ; and football , basketball , and baseball head coach and athletic director at Georgia Tech ) .
The award is presented by the Heisman Trophy Trust in early  दिसम्बर पहले the postseason कटोरी  games .
It is the oldest of several overall awards in  कॉलेज फ़ुटबॉल , सहित the मैक्सवेल पुरस्कार , वाल्टर शिविर  Award , and the AP Player of the Year .
The Heisman and the AP Player of the Year are the only awards to honor the most outstanding player  , जबकि the मैक्सवेल पुरस्कार और वाल्टर शिविर पुरस्कार recognize the बेहतरीन खिलाड़ी , और the आर्ची griffin पुरस्कार recognizes the सबसे मूल्यवान  player .
The  संयुक्त राष्ट्र कमांड ( unc ) is the एकीकृत कमांड ढांचा लिये the बहुराष्ट्रीय सैन्य शक्तियां supporting  the Republic of Korea ( South Korea or ROK ) during and after the Korean War .
After troops of the Democratic People 's Republic of Korea ( North Korea or DPRK ) invaded South Korea on June 25 , 1950 ,  the संयुक्त राष्ट्र सुरक्षा परिषद अपनाया रेज़ोल्यूशन 82 कॉलिंग on उत्तर कोरियाई to cease hostilities और withdraw  to the 38th parallel .
on जून 27 , 1950 , it अपनाया रेज़ोल्यूशन 83 , recommending कि सदस्यों of the संयुक्त  Nations provide assistance to the Republic of Korea `` to repel the armed attack and to restore international peace and security to the area '' .
Security Council Resolution 84 , adopted on July 7 , 1950 , recommended that  सदस्यों providing सैन्य शक्तियां और अन्य सहायता to दक्षिण कोरियाई ``  make such forces and other assistance available to a unified command under the United States of America '' .
Although the resolutions suggested the forces under the UNC were `` United  राष्ट्र शक्तियां '' , और संयुक्त राष्ट्र itself could be माना a belligerent , in अभ्यास the संयुक्त राष्ट्र exercised no कंट्रोल over  the combat forces , which were controlled by the United States .
Most observers concluded that the forces under the UNC were  नहीं in विधि संयुक्त राष्ट्र सैनिकों , और the अधिनियमों of  the UNC were not the acts of the United Nations .
The UNC can be  regarded as an गठबंधन of नेशनल  armies , operating under the collective right of self-defense .
On August 29 , 1950 , the British  राष्ट्रमंडल 's 27th infantry ब्रिगेड arrived at बुसान to जुड़ें the unc , जिससे  until then included only ROK and U.S. forces .
The 27th  ब्रिगेड स्थानांतरित into the naktong नदी लकीर वेस्ट  of Daegu .
Troop units from other countries of the UN followed in rapid  उत्तराधिकार ; ऑस्ट्रेलिया , belgian संयुक्त राष्ट्र कमांड , कनाडा , कोलंबिया , इथियोपिया , फ़्रांस , यूनानियों , ध्वज , the नीदरलैंड्स  , New Zealand , the Philippines , Thailand and Turkey .
The Union of South Africa provided air units which fought  alongside the एयर शक्तियां of अन्य सदस्य राष्ट्र  .
Denmark ,  इण्डिया , नार्वे , और स्वीडन provided  medical units .
Italy provided a hospital ,  भी हालांकि it थी नहीं a un सदस्य  .
The United Nations  कमांड और the chinese-north कोरियाई कमांड हस्ताक्षरित the कोरियाई  Armistice Agreement on 27 July 1953 , ending the heavy fighting .
The armistice agreement established the Military Armistice Commission (  मैक ) , consisting of प्रतिनिधि of the दो signatories , to supervise the क्रियान्वयन of  the armistice terms .
The North Korean-Chinese MAC has been  replaced by panmumjon प्रतिनिधि अंतर्गत विशेष  North Korean management .
Regular meetings have been stopped , although  ड्यूटी अधिकारियों of संयुक्त सुरक्षा क्षेत्रफल , commonly ज्ञात as the युद्धविराम गाँव of  Panmunjom , from each side meet regularly .
Lincoln Heights is an American family drama television series about Eddie Sutton , a Mission  विस्टा पुलिस अधिकारी जो चालें उसके परिवार वापस to उसके बूढ़ा पड़ोस , lincoln हाइट्स , to प्रारंभ a नई जीवन और to सहायता आउट उसके बूढ़ा पड़ोस  .
It is a dangerous place  to उठाएँ a परिवार , और through the अनेक ट्रायल the परिवार goes through  , they soon learn that settling in is not as easy as it seems .
While Officer Sutton struggles to cope with  प्रत्येक दिन जीवन as a गली cop in लॉस एंजिल्स ,  his kids try to fit in at their new schools and with their new neighbors .
the दिखाएँ premiered जनवरी 8 , 2007 on the एबीसी परिवार  network with 13 episodes ordered for the first season .
It  थी स्वीकृत लिये a दूसरी ऋतु  , which premiered September 4 , 2007 .
Vanessa  हजेंस ' सोंग , कह ok था महरूम प्रयुक्त in a वाणिज्यिक  to promote the second season .
To promote the third season , they showed  क्लिप्स of cassie और चार्ल्स 's संबंध to the सोंग , crush by the अमरीकी आइडल  's seventh season runner-up , David Archuleta .
To  प्रचार ऋतु 4 , वे  're using the song , Avalanche by Marie Digby .
The show 's theme song was  लिखा और performed by bassist स्टेनली क्लार्क और singer-songwriter  Blaire Reinhard .
On January 29 , 2010 ,  एबीसी परिवार घोषित the रद्दीकरण of the श्रेणी  after four seasons .
A Christian  denomination is an identifiable धार्मिक देह  under a common name , structure , and doctrine within Christianity .
In the Orthodox tradition , churches are  विभाजित प्रायः साथ जातीय और भाषाई लाइनों  , into separate churches and traditions .
Technically , divisions  between एक समूह और another हैं  defined by doctrine and church authority .
Issues such  as the प्रकृति of यीशु , the प्राधिकार of अपोस्टोलिक उत्तराधिकार , eschatology ,  and papal primacy separate one denomination from another .
The Roman Catholic Church is the largest denomination with over 1.1 billion members , over half of all Christians worldwide , making it the largest denomination for any religion worldwide (  हालांकि the गिरिजाघर करता नहीं दृश्य itself as a denomination , लकिन as the असली pre-denominational गिरिजाघर  ) .
Protestant denominations comprise roughly 38–39 % of  ईसाइयों विश्वव्यापी , और साथ the catholics , protestants , anglicans , और अन्य closely सम्बन्धित denominations  comprise Western Christianity .
The Eastern Orthodox Church , Oriental Orthodox  चर्च और the assyrian गिरिजाघर of the ईस्ट हैं माना  Eastern Christian denominations .
Western Christian denominations prevail in  पश्चिमी यूरोपीय और इसके पूर्व colonies  .
Eastern  ईसाई denominations हैं represented  mostly in Eastern Europe , the Middle East and North Africa .
Christians have various doctrines about the Church , the body of faithful that they believe  थी स्थापित by यीशु मसीह , और कैसा the दैवी  church corresponds to Christian denominations .
Both the Catholics  और the पूर्वी परंपरागत consider प्रत्येक  of themselves solely to faithfully represent the One Holy Catholic and Apostolic Church to the exclusion of the other .
Protestants separated from the Catholic Church because of theologies and  practices कि वे माना to be in उल्लंघन of उनके निर्वचन  .
Generally , members of the various denominations acknowledge each other as Christians , at least to the extent that they have mutually recognized  baptisms और acknowledge historically परंपरागत दृश्य सहित the देवत्व of यीशु और doctrines of सिन और मोक्ष , भी हालांकि doctrinal और ecclesiological बाधाएं रोकते पूरा नियाज़  between churches .
चूंकि the reforms surrounding वेटिकन ii , the कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर रै referred to प्रोटोस्टेंट समुदायों as `` denominations '' , जबकि reserving  the term `` church '' for apostolic churches , including the Eastern Orthodox ( see subsistit in and branch theory ) .
There are however some non-denominational  ईसाइयों जो do नहीं follow  any particular branch .
The panda ( Ailuropoda  melanoleuca , lit  .
`` black and white cat-foot '' ) , also  ज्ञात as the दानव पांडा to फर्क it इससे the unrelated रेड पांडा , is a भालू देशी to central-western  and south western China .
It is easily recognized by the large , distinctive  ब्लैक धब्बे around इसके आँखें , over the कानों  , and across its round body .
Though it belongs to the order Carnivora , the  पांडा 's आहार is 99 % बाँसुरी .
Pandas in the  जंगली होगा occasionally खा अन्य grasses , जंगली tubers , or भी मांस  in the form of birds , rodents or carrion .
In captivity ,  वे may प्राप्त मधु , अंडे , मछली , yams  , shrub leaves , oranges , or bananas along with specially prepared food .
The giant panda  जीवनदान in a few पहाड़ सीमाएँ in सेंट्रल चीन , मुख्यतः in सिचुआन प्रांत  , but also in the Shaanxi and Gansu provinces .
As  a परिणाम of खेती , वनों और अन्य विकास , the पांडा रै महरूम  driven out of the lowland areas where it once lived .
The panda is a  संरक्षण reliant endangered प्रजाति  .
A 2007 report shows 239 pandas living in  captivity अंदर चीन और another 27 बाहर the देश  .
Wild population estimates vary ; one estimate shows that there are about 1,590 individuals  जीना in the जंगली , जबकि a 2006 पढ़ाई via डीएनए विश्लेषण अनुमानित कि इस फिगर could  be as high as 2,000 to 3,000 .
Some reports also show that the number of pandas in  the जंगली is on the वृद्धि  .
However , the IUCN  करता नहीं मानना वहीँ is पर्याप्त certainty yet to reclassify  the species from Endangered to Vulnerable .
While the dragon has often served as China 's national emblem , internationally  the पांडा appears at तनिक as commonly .
As such , it is becoming  widely प्रयुक्त भीतर चीन in अंतरराष्ट्रीय contexts , लिये उदाहरण the पाँच  Fuwa mascots of the Beijing Olympics .
The Kite Runner is a 2007 American drama film directed by Marc Forster based  on the अनोखा of the वही नाम by खालिद hosseini  .
It  tells the स्टोरी of आमिर , a well-to-do लड़के इससे the वज़ीर akbar खान ज़िला  of Kabul , who is tormented by the guilt of abandoning his friend Hassan , the son of his father 's Hazara servant .
the स्टोरी is नियत विरूद्ध a backdrop of उग्र कार्यक्रम , इससे the पतन of the साम्राज्य in अफगानिस्तान through  the Soviet military intervention , the mass exodus of Afghan refugees to Pakistan and the United States , and the Taliban regime .
Though most of the  फिल्मी is नियत in अफगानिस्तान , ये भाग यहूद ज़्यादातर  shot in Kashgar , China , due to the dangers of filming in Afghanistan at the time .
The majority of the film 's  संवाद is in जमींदारी , साथ  the remainder spoken in English .
The child actors are native  अध्यक्षों , लकिन अनेक वयस्क अभिनेताओं  had to learn Dari .
Filming wrapped up on December  21 , 2006 , और the फिल्मी थी अपेक्षित to be released on नवम्बर  2 , 2007 .
However , after concern for the safety of the young actors in the film due to fears of violent reprisals  to the यौन प्रकृति of कुछ दृश्यों in जिससे वे appear , इसके रिलीज तिथि थी धकेल वापस छह  weeks to December 14 , 2007 .
The Kite  धावक थी released on dvd  on March 25 , 2008 .
A HD DVD release was  घोषित लिये the वही तिथि , लकिन थी रद्द following  the format 's demise .
The film was nominated for the Golden Globe Award for Best  विदेशी भाषा फिल्मी in 2007 .
The film 's score by Alberto Iglesias was nominated  लिये बेहतरीन असली स्कोर at the सुनहरी  Globes and the Academy Awards .
the वैधता of कैनबिस varies  from country to country .
कब्ज़ा of कैनबिस is illegal in सबसे देशों और रै महरूम चूंकि the शुरूआत  of widespread cannabis prohibition in the late 1930s .
However , many countries have  decriminalized the कब्ज़ा of छोटी quantities of कैनबिस , विशेषकर in उत्तर  America , South America and Europe .
Furthermore , possession is legal or effectively legal in the Netherlands , North Korea  और होता be in the u.S. राज्य of कोलोराडो और वॉशिंगटन if it यहूद नहीं लिये संघीय  law , which governs persons in all states .
The medicinal use of  कैनबिस is विधिक in a  number of countries , including Canada , the Czech Republic and Israel .
While federal law in  the संयुक्त राज्य bans सब बिक्री और कब्ज़ा of कैनबिस , प्रवर्तन varies widely at the राज्य स्तर और कुछ राज्य have स्थापित औषधीय मारिजुआना  programs in that contradict federal law ; two states ( Colorado and Washington ) have repealed their laws prohibiting the recreational use of cannabis and replaced them with a regulatory regime , also contrary to federal statute .
Some  देशों have कानून कि हैं नहीं as vigorously prosecuted as अन्य  but , apart from the countries that offer access to medical marijuana , most countries have various penalties ranging from lenient to very severe .
Some infractions are taken more  seriously in कुछ देशों than अन्य in लिहाज़ to the  cultivation , use , possession or transfer of cannabis for recreational use .
A few jurisdictions have lessened  दंड लिये कब्ज़ा of छोटी quantities of कैनबिस , बनाना it दंडनीय  by confiscation and a fine , rather than imprisonment .
Some jurisdictions/ drug courts use mandatory treatment programs for young or frequent users , with freedom  इससे narcotic दवाएँ as the लक्ष्य और a few jurisdictions परमिट कैनबिस उपयोग लिये औषधीय उद्देश्य .
There are also changes in a more  प्रतिबंधक दिशा as in कनाडा .
Drug tests to detect cannabis are increasingly common in many  देशों और have resulted in कारावास वाक्य और लोगों  losing their jobs .
However , simple possession can carry long jail sentences in some countries ,  विशेषकर in भाग of ईस्ट एशिया और southeast एशिया जहाँ the बिक्री of कैनबिस may  lead to a sentence of life in prison or even execution .
Loxahatchee is a community  स्तिथ in ताड़ बीच काउंटी , फ्लोरिडा  , United States .
It is located in the areas north of Wellington and west and northwest of Royal  ताड़ बीच , फ्लोरिडा और लगभग वेस्ट of वेस्ट ताड़  Beach .
Loxahatchee is also the name  of the पोस्ट दफ्तर कि serves इस क्षेत्रफल ,  which is under the zip code of 33470 .
the नाम loxahatchee अर्थात्  `` turtle river . ''
Loxahatchee is located within the  भारतीय trails सुधार ज़िला और the loxahatchee  Groves Water Control District .
शेर देश safari , a drive-through safari  park , is located in Loxahatchee .
In 2006 , the state of Florida approved incorporation of part  of loxahatchee as the कस्बा of loxahatchee groves to become the 38th नगरपालिका in ताड़ बीच काउंटी  .
The main reason for incorporating was to better  protect the क्षेत्रफल इससे बुवाई विकास और to बचाना the  rural character of the neighborhood .
Perhaps the most rural area within a close  निकटता to वेस्ट ताड़ बीच , साथ लॉट आकार दायरा इससे  1-20 acres .
Along with The Acreage , it is notable for loose land restrictions and the native and exotic  एनिमल उपस्थिति is काफी notable  .
Seminole Ridge High  स्कूल serves  the area .
The  कनाडाई नागरिकता परीक्षण is a परीक्षण , administered by नागरिकता और आव्रजन कनाडा ( सीआईसी ) , कि is जरूरी लिये सब आवेदकों लिये कनाडाई  citizenship who are aged between 18 and 54 and who meet the basic requirements for citizenship .
The test is available in both  फ्रेंच और अंग्रेज़ी , the आधिकारिक  languages of Canada .
Renaissance Cruises , originally founded in 1989 owned by Fearnley & Eger Rederi in Oslo - Norway , later  खरीदा by एडवर्ड rudner ( संस्थापक of alamo car rental ) as the कम्पनी  faltered during the Gulf War .
They operated year-round cruise itineraries to the  भूमध्यसागरीय , the यूनानी isles , tahiti और the दक्षिण प्रशांत  , Northern Europe and Scandinavia .
The company ceased operations on 25 September 2001  और accommodated up to 220,000  guests in 2000 .
While  the कम्पनी था महरूम in ग़रीब वित्तीय स्वास्थ्य लिये काफी कुछ समय , the आर्थिक मनाही  resulting from the September 11th terrorist attacks are credited with the demise of this cruise line .
The fleet is  सूचीबद्ध अंतर्गत सूची of क्रूज जहाजों  .
It was  headquartered in फोर्ट lauderdale  , Florida .
epithelium is एक of the चार मौलिक प्रकार of एनिमल ऊतक , साथ  with connective tissue , muscle tissue and nervous tissue .
Epithelial tissues line the cavities and surfaces of structures  throughout the देह , और भी रूप अनेक ग्रंथियों  .
Functions of epithelial  कोशिकाएं शामिल स्राव , चयनात्मक अवशोषण , सुरक्षा  , transcellular transport and detection of sensation .
In Greek `` ἐπί '' ( `` epi '' ) means `` on '' or ``  upon '' , और `` θηλή '' ( ``  thēlē '' ) means `` nipple '' .
Epithelial layers are avascular , so they must receive nourishment via diffusion of substances  इससे the underlying संयोजी ऊतक , through  the basement membrane .
Epithelia can  भी be व्यवस्थित into क्लस्टर of कोशिकाएं कि फलन as  exocrine and endocrine glands .
Kent E. Hovind (  born जनवरी 15 , 1953 ) is an अमरीकी  young Earth creationist .
Hovind has spoken on creation science and has aimed to convince listeners to reject theories of evolution , geophysics ,  और cosmology in एहसान of उसके निर्वचन of the उत्पत्ति सृष्टि कथा इससे the बाइबल .
Hovind 's views are contradicted by scientific evidence and  कुछ of उसके विचार have भी महरूम criticized by यंग धरती creationist संगठन  such as Answers in Genesis .
Hovind  स्थापित the सृष्टि विज्ञान इंजीलवाद in 1991 , और अक्सर spoke on  young Earth creationism at seminars at private schools and churches , debates , and on radio and television broadcasts .
Since January 2007 , Hovind has been serving a ten-year  थाना वाक्य बाद होने convicted of 58 संघीय रिश्तो , सहित 12 कर offenses  , one count of obstructing federal agents , and 45 counts of structuring cash transactions .
He  is incarcerated at the संघीय  Correctional Institution at Berlin , New Hampshire .
Bride with  बिंदी सजा  forehead
A bindi ( , from Sanskrit bindu , meaning `` a drop , small particle , dot '' ) , or a pottu/bottu ( in Tamil ,  तेलुगु , और मलयालम ) is a माथे सजावट worn in दक्षिण एशिया ( विशेषकर इण्डिया ,  Bangladesh , Nepal , Sri Lanka and Mauritius ) and Southeast Asia .
traditionally it is a उज्जवल बिन्दु of रेड रंग लागू in the बीच of the माथे बंद to the eyebrows ,  but it can also consist of a sign or piece of jewelry worn at this location .
The New York  gubernatorial चुनाव of 2010 थी आयोजित on मंगलवार , नवम्बर 2 , 2010  , to elect the Governor of New York , to serve a four-year term that began in January 2011 .
Incumbent  लोकतांत्रिक राज्यपाल दाउद paterson , निर्वाचित as लेफ्टिनेंट राज्यपाल in 2006 as the कार्यशील mate of  former Governor Eliot Spitzer , chose not to run for a full-term .
On November 2 , New York  attorney सामान्य और डेमोक्रेट एंड्रयू cuomo  defeated Republican Carl Paladino .
Green Party candidate Howie  हॉकिन्स प्राप्त over 57,000 मत , allowing the नई यॉर्क ग्रीन  Party to be listed on the ballot for the next 4 years .
The  प्रमुख डाल of ड्रैगन बॉल at the  end of the manga .
The Dragon Ball  manga और दुश्मनी श्रेणी सुविधाएँ an extensive डाल of  characters created by Akira Toriyama .
The series takes place in a  fictional ब्रह्मांड , the वही as toriyama 's पिछला श्रेणी dr. slump , और फ़ॉलो the adventures of martial कलाकार बेटे goku इससे  childhood to adulthood as he searches for the seven spheres known as the Dragon Balls , used to summon a wish-granting dragon .
During the course of the story , he encounters allies such as  bulma , yamcha , kuririn और trunks , विरोधियों ऐसे as tenshinhan , piccolo  and Vegeta , and enemies such as Freeza and Cell .
While many of the  वर्ण हैं इंसानो साथ superhuman शक्ति and/or अलौकिक abilities , the डाल भी शामिल  anthropomorphic animals and later , extraterrestrial lifeforms .
The series also includes depictions of the  आफ्टरलाइफ , साथ अनेक वर्ण होने देवताओं कि govern the  universe .
250px
The  comanche हैं a मैदान भारतीय जनजाति जिनकी ऐतिहासिक territory , ज्ञात as comancheria , consisted  of present day eastern New Mexico , southern Colorado , northeastern Arizona , southern Kansas , all of Oklahoma , and most of northwest Texas .
The Comanche people  हैं नामांकित in the federally पहचाना  Comanche Nation , in Oklahoma .
Historically ,  the comanches यहूद hunter-gatherers साथ a घोड़ा  culture .
वहीँ may have महरूम  as many as 45,000 Comanches in the late 18th century .
Today , the Comanche  स्वदेश comanche जनजातीय नामांकन संख्याएँ 15,191 साथ लगभग  7,763 members residing in the Lawton – Fort Sill and surrounding areas of Southwest Oklahoma .
The  comanche स्वदेश homecoming powwow is आयोजित annually in walters  , Oklahoma in mid-July .
The Comanche spoke the Comanche  भाषा , a numic भाषा of the uto-aztecan परिवार , sometimes वर्गीकृत  as a Shoshone dialect ; however , only about 1 % of Comanches speak it today .
Ethan Frome is a novel published in 1911 by  the पुलित्जर पुरस्कार -winning अमरीकी  author Edith Wharton .
It is set in the  fictitious कस्बा of starkfield  , Massachusetts .
the अनोखा थी adapted  into a film , Ethan Frome , in 1993 .
Times  वर्गाकार studios ( तस ) is an अमरीकी टेलीविज़न स्टुडियो स्तिथ  in the Times Square neighborhood of the Manhattan borough of New York City , New York .
The studio is best known as the production  घर of एबीसी न्यूज ' शुभ morning अमेरिका ( जीएमए ) , a morning न्यूज और बात  program and segments for GMA on ABC News Now .
The Las  वेगास स्ट्रिप संसार of coca-cola संग्रहालय  in 2003
Coca-Cola is a  कार्बोनेटेड नरम पेय बेची in स्टोर्स , रेस्तरां , और वेंडिंग मशीने in  every country except Cuba and North Korea .
It is produced by The Coca-Cola  कम्पनी of अटलांटा , जॉर्जिया , और is प्रायः referred to बस as कोक ( a पंजीकृत ट्रेडमार्क  of The Coca-Cola Company in the United States since March 27 , 1944 ) .
Originally intended as a patent medicine when it was  invented in the लेट 19th सदी by जॉन pemberton , coca-cola थी खरीदा आउट by बिजनेसमैन asa griggs  Candler , whose marketing tactics led Coke to its dominance of the world soft-drink market throughout the 20th century .
The company produces  concentrate , जिससे is तब बेची to licensed  Coca-Cola bottlers throughout the world .
The  bottlers , जो थाम territorially विशेष अनुबंध साथ the कम्पनी , उपज समाप्त उत्पाद in डिब्बे और बोतलों  from the concentrate in combination with filtered water and sweeteners .
The bottlers then sell , distribute and  merchandise coca-cola to खुदरा स्टोर्स और वेंडिंग मशीने  .
Such bottlers include Coca-Cola Enterprises , which is the  largest सिंगल coca-cola bottler in उत्तर अमेरिका और  western Europe .
The Coca-Cola Company also  बिकता concentrate लिये सोडा स्रोतों to प्रमुख रेस्तरां  and food service distributors .
The Coca-Cola  कम्पनी रै , on अवसर , introduced अन्य कोला  drinks under the Coke brand name .
The most common of these is Diet Coke , with others including Caffeine-Free  coca-cola , आहार कोक caffeine-free , coca-cola चेरी , coca-cola शून्य , coca-cola वैनिला , और खास  versions with lemon , lime or coffee .
Based on Interbrand 's best global brand  2011 , coca-cola थी the संसार 's सबसे मूल्यवान ब्रांड  .
Types of  bar-lines
In  musical संकेतन , a बार ( or माप ) is a खण्ड of समय पारिभाषित by a दिए  number of beats , each of which are assigned a particular note value .
dividing म्यूज़िक into बार provides नियमित सन्दर्भ  points to pin point locations within a piece of music .
It also makes written music easier to  follow , चूंकि प्रत्येक बार of स्टाफ प्रतीकों can be पढ़ा  and played as a batch .
Typically , a piece consists of  अनेक बार of the वही लंबाई , और in आधुनिक musical संकेतन the क्रमांक of बीट्स in प्रत्येक बार is निर्दिष्ट  at the beginning of the score by the top number of a time signature ( such as 3/4 ) , while the bottom number indicates the note value of the beat ( the beat has a quarter note value in the 3/4 example ) .
The word bar is more common in British English , and  the शब्द माप is अधिक आम in अमरीकी अंग्रेज़ी , हालांकि संगीतकारों generally समझे  both usages .
In American English ,  हालांकि the शब्द बार और माप हैं प्रायः प्रयुक्त interchangeably the सही उपयोग of the शब्द 'bar ' refers तभी to the लंबवत लकीर itself , जबकि the शब्द  'measure ' refers to the beats contained between bars .
In international  उपयोग , it is बराबर सही to बोलो of बार  numbers and measure numbers , e.g . ‘bars 9–16’ or ‘mm . 9–16’ .
Along the same  लाइनों , it is हिकमत to आरक्षित the  abbreviated form ‘bb .
3–4’ इत्यादि . लिये बीट्स तभी ; बार चाहिए be referred  to by name in full .
The first  metrically पूरा माप भीतर a टुकड़ा  of music is called ‘bar 1’ or ‘m . 1’ .
जब the टुकड़ा begins साथ an anacrusis ( an अधूरी माप at  the head of a piece of music ) , ‘bar 1’ or ‘m . 1’ is the following measure .
The 19.9 MW Gemasolar solar plant in Spain features 15 hours of  भंडार और can सप्लाई शक्ति 24 घंटों a दिन .
Solar energy , radiant light and heat from the sun ,  रै महरूम harnessed by इंसानो चूंकि प्राचीन टाइम्स using  a range of ever-evolving technologies .
Solar energy technologies include solar heating , solar photovoltaics , solar thermal electricity , solar architecture and artificial photosynthesis , which can make considerable  योगदान to solving कुछ of the सबसे तात्कालिक उर्जा समस्याएं the संसार अभी चेहरों .
Solar technologies are broadly characterized as either passive solar or active  सौर depending on the रास्ता वे कैप्चर , बदलें और वितरित सौर  energy .
Active solar techniques include the use of  photovoltaic panels और सौर थर्मल collectors to दोहन  the energy .
Passive solar techniques include orienting a building to the Sun , selecting  सामग्री साथ अनुकूल थर्मल द्रव्यमान or लाइट dispersing गुण  , and designing spaces that naturally circulate air .
In 2011 , the International Energy Agency said that `` the  विकास of सस्ती , inexhaustible और साफ सौर उर्जा technologies होगा have विशाल longer-term  benefits .
It will increase countries’ energy security  through रिलायंस on an स्वदेशी , inexhaustible और ज़्यादातर import-independent संसाधन , बढ़ाएँ स्थिरता , reduce  pollution , lower the costs of mitigating climate change , and keep fossil fuel prices lower than otherwise .
These  लाभ हैं वैश्विक  .
Hence the additional costs of the  प्रोत्साहन लिये जल्दी deployment चाहिए be माना सीखना निवेश ; वे जरूर be बुद्धिमानी  spent and need to be widely shared '' .
Primary care may be  provided in जातियाँ स्वास्थ्य केंद्रों  .
Primary care is the  स्वास्थ्य परवाह दिए by a स्वास्थ्य परवाह प्रदाता  .
Typically  इस प्रदाता अधिनियमों as the प्रिंसिपल पाइंट of परामर्श लिये मरीजों भीतर  a health care system and coordinates other specialists that the patient may need .
Such a professional can be a primary care physician , such as a general practitioner or family physician , or depending on the locality , health system organization , and patient 's discretion , they may see a pharmacist , a physician  सहायक , a नर्स practitioner , a नर्स ( ऐसे as in the संयुक्त किंगडम ) , a नैदानिक अधिकारी ( ऐसे as in भाग of अफ़्रीकी ) , or an आयुर्वेदिक or अन्य परंपरागत आयुर्विज्ञान पेशेवर (  such as in parts of Asia ) .
Depending on the nature of the health  कंडीशन , मरीजों may तब be referred लिये  secondary or tertiary care .
`` Ocean  एवेन्यू '' is a सोंग अंकित by  American pop punk group Yellowcard .
It was released in  फ़रवरी 2004 as the दूसरी सिंगल  from Ocean Avenue and the third track .
It is known for bringing them into the  मुख्यधारा , as it प्राप्त numerous spins on  MTV and increasing radio airplay .
Ocean Avenue is a street in Jacksonville , Florida , the band 's stomping grounds near their  ऊँची स्कूल , डगलस एंडरसन स्कूल of the कला , और another गली उल्लेखित in the सोंग ,  Cherry Street .
The name of  समंदर एवेन्यू in jacksonville is दरअसल  Beach Boulevard .
They left their original base behind when  वे स्थानांतरित to लॉस  Angeles .
The song was featured on the  much म्यूज़िक संकलन एल्बम बिग चमकदार  Tunes 9 .
A psychiatrist is a  चिकित्सक जो specializes  in psychiatry .
A  मनोचिकित्सक specializes  in the treatment of mental disorders .
Psychiatrists are authorized to prescribe medicine , conduct physical examinations , order and interpret laboratory tests , use psychotherapy and may order brain imaging studies such as  computed टोमोग्राफी ( ct/cat स्कैन ) , चुम्बकीय अनुनाद इमेजिंग ( mri ) , और positron उत्सर्जन टोमोग्राफी ( पालतु ) स्कैनिंग  .
Within the framework of the World Health Organization 's ( WHO ) definition of  स्वास्थ्य as a राज्य of पूरा शारीरिक , दिमागी और सोशल well-being , और नहीं merely the अनुपस्थिति of बीमारी or  infirmity , reproductive health , or sexual health/hygiene , addresses the reproductive processes , functions and system at all stages of life .
Reproductive health , therefore , implies that people are able to have a responsible , satisfying and safer sex life  और कि वे have the काबिलियत to reproduce और the स्वतंत्रता to decide  if , when and how often to do so .
One interpretation of this implies that men and women ought to be informed of and to have access to safe , effective  , सस्ती और स्वीकार्य विधि of जनम कंट्रोल ; भी अभिगम to उचित स्वास्थ्य परवाह सेवाएं of यौन , reproductive आयुर्विज्ञान और क्रियान्वयन of स्वास्थ्य शिक्षा कार्यक्रम  to stress the importance of women to go safely through pregnancy and childbirth could provide couples with the best chance of having a healthy infant .
On the  अन्य हाथ individuals do फेस inequalities  in reproductive health services .
Inequalities vary  आधारित on socioeconomic औकात , शिक्षा स्तर , आयु , नस्ल , धर्म  , and resources available in their environment .
It is possible for example , that low income individuals lack the resources  लिये उचित स्वास्थ्य सेवाएं और the ज्ञान to जान कया is उचित लिये maintaining  reproductive health .
According to the WHO , `` Reproductive and sexual ill-health accounts for  20 % of the वैश्विक बोझ of ill-health लिये महिलाओं , और 14 % लिये मेन . ''
Reproductive  स्वास्थ्य is a भाग of यौन और  reproductive health and rights .
This is a list of episodes for the Disney Channel original series The Suite Life on Deck , which  aired लिये तीन सीज़न on डिज़्नी चैनल इससे सितंबर 26 , 2008 to may  6 , 2011 .
Core  2 is a ब्रांड encompassing a दायरा of इंटेल 's उपभोक्ता 64-bit  x86-64 single- , dual- , and quad-core microprocessors based on the Core microarchitecture .
The single- and dual-core models are single- die ,  whereas the quad-core मॉडल comprise दो मरता , प्रत्येक containing दो cores ,  packaged in a multi-chip module .
The introduction of Core 2 relegated the Pentium brand  to the mid-range मार्केट , और reunified लैपटॉप और डेस्कटॉप cpu लाइनों , जिससे previously था महरूम विभाजित into  the Pentium 4 , Pentium D , and Pentium M brands .
The Core 2 brand was introduced on 27 July 2006 , comprising the  सोलो ( single-core ) , duo ( dual-core ) , क्वाड ( quad-core ) , और in 2007 , the चरम ( दुआl- or  quad-core CPUs for enthusiasts ) subbrands .
Intel Core 2 processors with vPro technology ( designed for businesses ) include the  dual-core और quad-core शाखाओं  .
The Super Bowl is the annual championship game of the National Football League ( NFL ) , the highest level of professional American football in  the संयुक्त राज्य , culminating a ऋतु कि begins in the लेट गर्मियाँ of the पिछला पंचांग साल  .
The Super Bowl uses Roman numerals to identify each  खेल , बल्कि than the साल in जिससे  it is held .
For example , Super Bowl I was played on January 15 ,  1967 , following the 1966 नियमित ऋतु , जबकि सुपर कटोरी xlvii थी निभाई on फ़रवरी 3 , 2013 , following  the 2012 season .
The game was created as part of a merger agreement between the NFL and its  then-rival लीग , the अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल लीग  ( AFL ) .
It was agreed that the two leagues ' champion teams would play  in an afl–nfl संसार चैंपियनशिप  Game until the merger was to officially begin in 1970 .
After the merger  , प्रत्येक लीग थी redesignated as a `` सम्मेलन `` , और the खेल थी तब निभाई  between the conference champions .
Currently ,  the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल सम्मेलन ( nfc ) लीड  the series with 25 wins to 22 wins for the American Football Conference ( AFC ) .
The day on which the Super  कटोरी is निभाई , अभी माना by कुछ a de facto अमरीकी नेशनल  holiday , is called `` Super Bowl Sunday `` .
it is the second-largest  day for U.S. food consumption , after Thanksgiving Day .
In addition , the Super Bowl has  अक्सर महरूम the सबसे देखी अमरीकी टेलीविज़न ब्रॉडकास्ट  of the year .
Super Bowl XLV , played in 2011 , became  the most-watched अमरीकी टेलीविज़न कार्यक्रम in इतिहास , आरेखण an औसत दर्शक of 111 लाख दर्शक और लेने over the स्पॉट आयोजित by the पिछला साल 's सुपर कटोरी , जिससे itself  had taken over the # 1 spot held for twenty-eight years by the final episode of M*A*S*H .
The Super Bowl is also among the most watched sporting events in the world , almost all being North American audiences , and is second to association football ’s UEFA  champions लीग फाइनल as the सबसे देखी सालाना sporting इवेंट विश्वव्यापी  .
Because of its high viewership , commercial airtime  दौरान the सुपर कटोरी ब्रॉडकास्ट is the सबसे महंगी of the  year .
Due to the high cost of investing in  विज्ञापन on the सुपर  Bowl , companies regularly develop their most expensive advertisements for this broadcast .
As a result , watching and  discussing the ब्रॉडकास्ट 's commercials रै become a significant  aspect of the event .
in जोड , अनेक लोकप्रिय गायकों और संगीतकारों  have performed during the event 's pre-game and halftime ceremonies because of the exposure .
Fiona is a  feminine दिए नाम .
The name Fiona was invented , and first used , by the  स्कॉटिश कवि जेम्स macpherson ( 1736–96 ) , लेखक of the ossian कविताएं , जिससे he claimed यहूद अनुवाद इससे प्राचीन गैलिक स्त्रोत (  sources , when challenged , he never produced ) .
The name was subsequently used as a  pseudonym by विलियम शार्प ( 1855–1905 ) , जो authored अनेक रोमांटिक works अंतर्गत  the name `` Fiona Macleod '' .
The name has since become  लोकप्रिय in इंग्लैण्ड , स्कॉटलैंड और आयरलैंड  .
The name  is माना to be a latinised रूप of the गैलिक शब्द fionn , अर्थ  `` white '' , `` fair '' .
The name Fiona is also sometimes used as an Anglicisation of the  irish-language नाम fíona , हालांकि ये names हैं वरना unrelated  ( as Fíona is derived from an element meaning `` vine '' ) .
There is also a modern tendency to equate the authentic  स्कॉटिश गैलिक feminine नाम fionnghal साथ फिओना  .
The  नाम फिओना is उठती in लोकप्रियता विशेषकर  in German -speaking countries .
फिओना थी the 49th सबसे लोकप्रिय नाम  for baby girls born in 2008 in Germany .
Fiona was tied for third place in the ranking of most  लोकप्रिय names लिये baby लड़कियों born in the छोटा principality of  Liechtenstein in 2008 .
The name was the 347th most popular  नाम लिये लड़कियों born in the संयुक्त राज्य in 2008 , जहाँ it रै क्रमित  among the top 1,000 most popular names for girls since 1990 and among the top 500 since 1999 .
The name Fiona has been particularly  लोकप्रिय लिये लड़कियों of एशियाई or प्रशांत islander descent in नई यॉर्क नगर , जहाँ फिओना क्रमित  as the ninth most popular name for girls from those groups in 2007 .
Many languages are used , or historically have  महरूम प्रयुक्त in the संयुक्त राज्य  .
The most  commonly प्रयुक्त भाषा is  English .
There are also many languages indigenous to North  अमेरिका or to u.S. राज्य or holdings in the प्रशांत प्रदेश .
Languages brought to the country by colonists or immigrants from  यूरोपीय , एशिया , or अन्य भाग of the संसार मेक up a विशाल portion of the भाषाएं फिलहाल प्रयुक्त ; अनेक  languages , including creoles and sign languages , have also developed in the United States .
Approximately 337 languages are spoken or signed by  the जनसांख्यिकी , of जिससे 176 हैं स्वदेशी to the  area .
Fifty-two  भाषाएं formerly बोला in  the country 's territory are now extinct .
The variety of English spoken in  the संयुक्त राज्य is ज्ञात as अमरीकी अंग्रेज़ी  .
English is the de facto national language of the United States , with 80 % of the population  claiming it as a माँ जीभ , और कुछ 95 % claiming to बोलो it `` खूब '' or ``  very well '' .
However , no official  भाषा exists at the संघीय स्तर  .
There  have महरूम अनेक प्रस्ताव to मेक अंग्रेज़ी the नेशनल भाषा in amendments  to immigration reform bills , but none of these bills has become law with the amendment intact .
The situation is quite varied at the state and territorial levels , with some states mirroring the federal policy of adopting no official language in a de jure capacity , others adopting  अंग्रेज़ी अलोन , अन्य officially adopting अंग्रेज़ी as खूब as लोकल भाषाएं , और  still others adopting a policy of de facto bilingualism .
Spanish is the second most common  भाषा in the देश , और is बोला by over 12  % of the population .
The United States holds the world 's fifth largest  spanish-speaking जनसांख्यिकी , outnumbered तभी by मैक्सिको , स्पेन , कोलंबिया  , and Argentina .
Throughout the Southwestern United States , long-established  spanish-speaking समुदायों coexist साथ विशाल संख्याएँ of अधिक हाल  Hispanophone immigrants .
Although many new Latin American immigrants are less than fluent in  अंग्रेज़ी , nearly सब second-generation हिस्पैनिक अमेरिकी बोलो अंग्रेज़ी धड़ल्ले , जबकि तभी परिचय  half still speak Spanish .
According to the 2000 US census ,  लोगों of जर्मनी ancestry मेक up the largest सिंगल जातीय समूह in the संयुक्त राज्य  , and the German language ranks fifth .
Italian , Polish , and French are still widely spoken among  populations descending इससे आप्रवासियों इससे those  countries in the early 20th century , but the use of these languages is dwindling as the older generations die .
रूसी is भी बोला by  immigrant populations .
Tagalog and Vietnamese have over one million speakers each  in the संयुक्त राज्य , लगभग entirely भीतर हाल अप्रवासी populations .
Both languages , along with the varieties of the Chinese language , Japanese , and Korean , are now  प्रयुक्त in चुनावों in अलास्का , कैलिफ़ोर्निया , हवाई , इलिनोइस , नई यॉर्क , टेक्सास , और वॉशिंगटन .
Native American languages are spoken in smaller pockets of the country , but  ये populations हैं अवरोहण , और the भाषाएं हैं लगभग never  widely used outside of reservations .
Hawaiian  , हालांकि having few देशी अध्यक्षों , is an आधिकारिक भाषा  along with English at the state level in Hawaii .
The state government of Louisiana offers  सेवाएं और दस्तावेज़ in फ्रेंच , as करता नई मैक्सिको  in Spanish .
Besides English , Spanish , French  , जर्मनी , navajo और अन्य देशी अमरीकी भाषाएं , सब अन्य भाषाएं हैं प्रायः सीखे इससे  immigrant ancestors that came after the time of independence or learned through some form of education .
1990 's Pontiac  ग्रैंड am सेडान फेंडर  and quarter panel
On an automobile , a quarter panel ( or rear wing as it is known in British English ) is usually considered the body panel which goes between the rear  द्वार और the ट्रंक और typically wraps around the व्हील खूब ; however , the समान सामने खण्ड फेंडर ( गाडी ) , between the द्वार और the हुड , is sometimes incorrectly  referred to as a quarter panel .
The quarter panel is typically made of Sheet metal , but is sometimes made of fiberglass or  fiber-reinforced प्लास्टिक ; हालांकि , इस varies साथ  different makes and models .
A quarter panel  is typically a welded on  component of the uni-body structure or Monocoque .
बदलना of a चादर मेटल क्वार्टर फलक typically requires it to be काटें बंद the  vehicle and a replacement part to be welded ( or sometimes bonded ) to the Vehicle .
Due to this high amount of specialized labor , a quarter panel may often be repaired  बल्कि than replaced by hammering आउट the क्षति , और a देह फिलर sometimes referred to as bondo to be लागू to finalize  the original surface .
shropshire ( or ; alternatively salop  ; abbreviated , in print only , Shrops ) is a county in the West Midlands region of England .
It borders Wales to the west , Cheshire to the  उत्तर , staffordshire to the ईस्ट , वॉस्टरशायर  to the south-east and Herefordshire to the south .
A unitary authority ( Shropshire Council ) was created on 1 April  2009 , लेने over इससे the पिछला काउंटी परिषद और 5 ज़िला councils  , and covers most of the county .
The borough of  telford और wrekin रै महरूम a पृथक एकात्मक  authority since 1998 but continues to be included in the ceremonial county .
The county 's population and economy is centred on five towns : the county town of  shrewsbury , जिससे is culturally और historically महत्वपूर्ण और is स्तिथ in the केन्द्र of the काउंटी ; telford , a नई कस्बा in the ईस्ट जिससे थी constructed around a क्रमांक of पुरानी कस्बों , सबसे notably वेलिंगटन , dawley और madeley , जिससे is आज the सबसे  populous ; and Oswestry in the north-west , Bridgnorth just to the south of Telford , and Ludlow in the south .
The county has many further market towns , including  whitchurch in the उत्तर , न्यूपोर्ट बस to the north-east of telford , और मार्केट drayton in the  north-east of the county .
The Ironbridge Gorge area is a UNESCO  संसार विरासत साईट , covering ironbridge ,  Coalbrookdale and a part of Madeley .
There are , additionally , other notable historic industrial sites  स्तिथ around the काउंटी , ऐसे as at shrewsbury , broseley , snailbeach  and Highley as well as the Shropshire Union Canal .
The Shropshire Hills Area of Outstanding  प्राकृतिक सौंदर्य कवर परिचय a क्वार्टर of the  county , mainly in the south .
shropshire is एक of इंग्लैण्ड 's सबसे ग्रामीण और sparsely आबादी काउंटी  , with the population density of the Shropshire Council area being just 91/km2 ( 337/sq mi ) .
The Wrekin is one of  the सबसे प्रसिद्ध प्राकृतिक लैंडमार्क in the काउंटी , हालांकि the  highest hills are the Clee Hills , Stiperstones and the Long Mynd .
Wenlock  किनारे is another significant भौगोलिक और  geological landmark .
In the low-lying  उत्तरपश्चिम of the काउंटी ( और अतिव्यापी the किनारा साथ वेल्स ) is the fenn 's , whixall और bettisfield  Mosses National Nature Reserve , one of the most important and best preserved bogs in Britain .
The River Severn , Great  ब्रिटेन 's longest नदी , रनों through the काउंटी , exiting  into Worcestershire via the Severn Valley .
Shropshire is landlocked , and  साथ an क्षेत्रफल of , is इंग्लैण्ड 's largest अंतर्देशीय काउंटी  .
the काउंटी पुष्प is the round-leaved  sundew .
For Eurostat purposes , the  काउंटी ( कम the एकात्मक ज़िला of  Telford and Wrekin ) is a NUTS 3 region ( code UKG22 ) .
The two Shropshire unitary areas ( covering all of the ceremonial county ) , together with the  अधिकारियों covering the ceremonial काउंटी of staffordshire , comprise  the `` Shropshire and Staffordshire '' NUTS 2 region .
The Big Bang Theory cast at Comic Con 2009 , from left :  कुणाल नय्यर , साइमन helberg , kaley cuoco , जिम पार्सन्स  , and Johnny Galecki
the अमरीकी sitcom the बिग बंग सिद्धान्त , निर्मित और कार्यपालिका उत्पादित  by Chuck Lorre and Bill Prady , premiered on CBS on September 24 , 2007 .
The show centers on five characters : roommates Sheldon Cooper and Leonard Hofstadter , two Caltech physicists ; Penny , a waitress and  aspiring अभिनेत्री जो जीवनदान आरपार the हॉल ; और लियोनार्ड और शेल्डन 's मित्रों और co-workers aerospace इंजीनियर हावर्ड wolowitz , और astrophysicist  Rajesh Koothrappali .
Over time , several supporting characters have been promoted to starring roles : Leslie Winkle ( season 1  पुनरावर्ती ; ऋतु 2 नियमित ; ऋतु 3 अतिथि ) , a physicist सहयोगी , और , at अलग टाइम्स , a प्रेमी of दोनो लियोनार्ड और हावर्ड ; bernadette rostenkowski-wolowitz ( ऋतु 3 पुनरावर्ती ; ऋतु 4-present नियमित ) , a microbiologist , हावर्ड 's fiancée और subsequent बीवी , और पूर्व  part-time waitress alongside Penny ; neuroscientist Amy Farrah Fowler ( season 3 guest ; season 4 recurring ; season 4-present regular ) , who joins the group after being matched to Sheldon on a dating website ; and comic book store-owner , Stuart Bloom ( seasons 2–5 recurring ; season 6-present regular ) , who replaces Howard as Raj 's best friend when Howard is in space .
The  दिखाएँ भी सुविधाएँ numerous supporting वर्ण , प्रत्येक of  whom plays a prominent role in a small group of episodes .
The A-Team is an American action-adventure television series , running from 1983 to 1987 , about a fictional group of ex–  संयुक्त राज्य फौज खास शक्तियां कर्मियों जो कार्य as सैनिको of सौभाग्य , जबकि on the चलाएं इससे the फौज बाद होने ब्रांडेड as  war criminals for a `` crime they did n't commit `` .
A feature film  आधारित on the श्रेणी थी released by 20th सदी  Fox on June 11 , 2010 .
A comic  किताब श्रेणी , a-team : shotgun विवाह  , began March 9 , 2010 .
Diana Prince is a  fictional अक्षर appearing  regularly in stories published by DC Comics .
She debuted in Sensation Comics # 1 ( January 1942 ) and serves as the  civilian और रहस्य पहचान of  the superhero Wonder Woman .
The character was  निर्मित by चार्ल्स moulton और हैरी G.  Peter .
Wat  phra kaew ,  Bangkok , Thailand
There is no official  राज्य धर्म in the थाई संविधान , जिससे  guarantees religious freedom for all Thai citizens , though the king is required by law to be Buddhist .
According to the last census (  2000 ) 94.6 % of thais हैं बौद्धों of the थेरवाद परंपरा  .
Muslims are the second largest  धार्मिक समूह in थाईलैंड  at 4.6 % .
Thailand 's southernmost provinces - Pattani , Yala , Narathiwat  और भाग of songkhla chumphon have प्रबल मुस्लिम populations ,  consisting of both ethnic Thai and Malay .
The  दक्षिणी टिप of थाईलैंड  is mostly ethnic Malays .
Christians , mainly Catholics ,  represent 0.7 % of the जनसांख्यिकी  .
A small but influential community of Sikhs in Thailand and some Hindus also  सजीव in the देश 's शहरों , और हैं heavily सगाई in खुदरा  commerce .
वहीँ is भी a छोटी यहूदी जातियाँ  in Thailand , dating back to the 17th century .
Since 2001 , Muslim activists , generally described by the Thai government as terrorists or separatists , have rallied  विरूद्ध the सेंट्रल सरकारी क्युकी of कथित भ्रष्टाचार और जातीय पूर्वाग्रह on the भाग of officials  .
Thailand 's Department of Religion , currently under the Ministry of Culture , is formally  जिम्मेदार लिये the पंजीकरण of धार्मिक समूह in थाईलैंड url_http जिससे थाम गुण through  legally established foundations .
It has oversight , along with the  आव्रजन पुलिस , over the कार्य permits of प्रचारकों जो हैं `` प्रवासी धार्मिक  workers '' of all religions .
A value added  कर ( vat ) is a रूप of खपत कर  .
From the  परिप्रेक्ष्य of the खरीदार  , it is a tax on the purchase price .
From that of the seller , it is a tax only on the value added to a product ,  सामग्री , or सेवा , इससे an हिसाब पाइंट of दृश्य , by इस स्टेज of इसके  manufacture or distribution .
The  निर्माता remits to the सरकारी the अंतर between ये दो amounts , और retains  the rest for themselves to offset the taxes they had previously paid on the inputs .
The value added to a  उत्पाद by or साथ a कारोबार is the बिक्री दाम चार्ज to इसके  customer , minus the cost of materials and other taxable inputs .
A VAT is like a sales  कर in कि ultimately तभी the समाप्त उपभोक्ता  is taxed .
It differs from the sales  कर in कि , साथ the latter , the कर is एकत्रित और remitted to the सरकारी  only once , at the point of purchase by the end consumer .
With the VAT ,  संग्रहण , remittances to the सरकारी , और क्रेडिट लिये कर already सशुल्क occur प्रत्येक समय a कारोबार in the  supply chain purchases products .
a रेफरी कॉलिंग  a high-sticking penaltyHigh
-sticking is the name of two infractions in the sport of ice hockey that may occur when a player intentionally or inadvertently plays with his or her stick above  the ऊँचाई of the कन्धों or ऊपर the क्रॉस बार of a हॉकी  goal .
This can result in a  stoppage of खेल or in a दंड  .
In the rules of the  नेशनल हॉकी लीग , high-sticking  is defined as a penalty in Rule 60 and as a non-penalty foul in Rule 80 .
A stoppage in play  परिणाम if a ऊँची स्टिक आता in सम्पर्क साथ the पक और the टोली  who touched it regains control of the puck .
However , play usually continues if a  खिलाड़ी छू the पक साथ a ऊँची स्टिक और the opposing  team gains control of the puck .
If the puck goes into the opposing  जाल बाद coming into सम्पर्क साथ a ऊँची स्टिक , the  goal is disallowed .
The level at which a stick is  माना too ऊँची लिये a लक्ष्य is  the crossbar of the net .
However , if a player knocks the puck into his own  जाल साथ a ऊँची स्टिक , the लक्ष्य  is allowed .
A penalty is assessed if a  खिलाड़ी हमलों another खिलाड़ी साथ a ऊँची  stick .
The player is given a minor penalty  जबतक उसके ऊँची स्टिक caused an चोट , in जिससे मामला the रेफरी रै the विकल्प to assess a double-minor  , major or match penalty .
It is the referee 's discretion which  दंड to assess : the नियम काल्स लिये a दोगुना नाबालिग लिये an आकस्मिक चोट  , or a match penalty for a deliberate attempt to injure ( whether the opposition player was actually injured ) .
Injury is usually decided by the  ऊँची स्टिक causing bleeding , लकिन the उपस्थिति of रक्त  does not automatically mean an extra penalty is awarded .
Some referees have been  ज्ञात to पुरस्कार an अतिरिक्त दंड बगैर the उपस्थिति of रक्त  if the referee determines that the injury sustained was sufficient to warrant a double-minor penalty .
ठेठ आधुनिक मेमोरी कार्ड रीडर , संगत साथ  many common formats
A memory card reader is a device , typically  having a usb इंटरफ़ेस , लिये accessing the आंकड़ा on a मेमोरी कार्ड ऐसे as a compactflash (  CF ) , Secure Digital ( SD ) or MultiMediaCard ( MMC ) .
Most card readers also offer write capability , and together with  the कार्ड , इस can फलन as a कलम ड्राइव  .
Some printers and personal  कंप्यूटर have a built-in कार्ड रीडर  .
A multi card  रीडर is प्रयुक्त  for communication with more than one type of flash memory card .
Multi card readers do not have built-in memory capacity , but are  समर्थ to accept अनेक प्रकार और शैलियाँ of मेमोरी ताश .
The number of  संगत मेमोरी ताश varies इससे रीडर to रीडर और can शामिल  more than 20 different types .
The number of  अलग मेमोरी ताश कि a मल्टी कार्ड रीडर can accept  is expressed as x-in-1 , with x being a figure of merit indicating the number of memory cards accepted , such as 35-in-1 .
There are three categories of card readers sorted by the  प्रकार और मात्रा of the कार्ड स्लॉट : सिंगल कार्ड रीडर ( e.g . 1x sd-only ) , मल्टी कार्ड  reader ( e.g . 9-in-1 ) and series card reader ( e.g . 4x SD only ) .
Some kinds of memory cards with  उनके अपना usb कृत्यों do नहीं need the कार्ड रीडर , ऐसे as the बुद्धिमान स्टिक मेमोरी कार्ड , जिससे can  plug directly into a USB slot .
The USB  यंत्र क्लास प्रयुक्त is 0x08  .
Bullying is detrimental  to विद्यार्थी ' well-being  and development .
Bullying  is the उपयोग of फ़ोर्स or coercion to गाली  or intimidate others .
The behavior can be  habitual और involve an असंतुलन of सोशल  or physical power .
It can include verbal harassment or threat , physical assault or coercion and may  be निर्देशित repeatedly towards particular पीड़ितों , शायद on grounds of रेस , धर्म ,  gender , sexuality , or ability .
If bullying is  किया by a समूह , it  is called mobbing .
The  शिकार of धमकाना is sometimes referred  to as a `` target '' .
Bullying can be  पारिभाषित in अनेक अलग  ways .
The UK currently has no legal definition of  धमकाना , जबकि कुछ u.S. राज्य have कानून विरूद्ध  it .
Bullying  consists of तीन मौलिक प्रकार of  abuse – emotional , verbal , and physical .
It typically involves subtle methods  of coercion ऐसे as intimidation  .
Bullying ranges from simple  one-on-one धमकाना to अधिक जटिल धमकाना in जिससे the बुली may have एक or अधिक `` lieutenants  '' who may seem to be willing to assist the primary bully in his or her bullying activities .
Bullying in school and the  कार्यस्थल is भी referred to as  peer abuse .
Robert W. Fuller has analyzed  धमकाना in the कॉन्टेक्स्ट  of rankism .
A  धमकाना संस्कृति can develop in कोई कॉन्टेक्स्ट  in which human beings interact with each other .
This includes school ,  गिरिजाघर , परिवार , the कार्यस्थल , घर , और  neighborhoods .
Happy slapping  in the instituto क्षेत्रीय federico  Errázuriz , Santa Cruz , Chile
Laura Bush and Rae Leigh Bradbury ( formerly missing ) on April 4 , 2007 , in Austin , Texas , after the 8-year-old  introduced mrs. बुश दौरान घोषणा of the भविष्य खोलने of the टेक्सास क्षेत्रीय  Office of the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children .
Rae  leigh थी the पहला चाइल्ड in the u.S. to be बरामद as a परिणाम  of an AMBER Alert when she was 8 weeks old in November 1998 .
An AMBER Alert or a Child Abduction Emergency ( SAME code : CAE )  is a चाइल्ड abduction चेतावनी प्रणाली originating in 1996  , now employed in 9 countries .
AMBER is officially a backronym  लिये अमेरिका 's लापता : प्रसारण आपात जवाब , नामित लिये एम्बर  Hagerman , a 9-year-old abducted and murdered in Arlington , Texas in 1996 .
Alternate regional alert names were once used ; in Georgia , `` Levi 's Call '' ( named after Levi  frady ) ; in हवाई , `` maile एम्बर चेतावनी '' ( बाद maile गिल्बर्ट ) ; और अरकंसास , `` मॉर्गन उपनाम एम्बर चेतावनी '' ( in मेमोरी of मॉर्गन  Chauntel Nick ) .
AMBER Alerts are distributed via  वाणिज्यिक रेडियो स्टेशन , अंतरजाल रेडियो , उपग्रह रेडियो , टेलीविज़न स्टेशन , और केबल tv by the आपात चेतावनी प्रणाली और noaa मौसम रेडियो ( जहाँ  they are termed `` Child Abduction Emergency '' or `` Amber Alerts '' ) .
The alerts are also issued via e-mail ,  इलेक्ट्रॉनिक traffic-condition लक्षण , the led billboards जिससे हैं स्तिथ बाहर of नए walgreens स्थितियाँ , साथ साथ the led/lcd  signs of billboard companies such as Clear Channel Outdoor , CBS Outdoor and Lamar , or through wireless device SMS text messages .
AMBER Alert has also teamed up with Google and Facebook to relay information  regarding an एम्बर चेतावनी to an कभी growing जनसांख्यिकी  .
Those  दिलचस्पी in subscribing to प्राप्त एम्बर चेतावनियाँ in उनके क्षेत्रफल  via SMS messages can visit Wireless Amber Alerts , which are offered by law as free messages .
In  कुछ राज्य , the प्रदर्शक  scrollboards in front of lottery terminals are also used .
The decision to declare an AMBER Alert is made by each police organization ( in  अनेक मामले , the राज्य पुलिस or राजमार्ग पैट्रोल ) जिससे investigates प्रत्येक  of the abductions .
Public information in an AMBER Alert usually consists of the name and description  of the abductee , a वर्णन of the suspected abductor , और a वर्णन और अनुज्ञा थाली क्रमांक of the abductor  's vehicle , if available .
Monica Samille Lewinsky ( born July 23 , 1973 ) is an American woman with  जिसको संयुक्त राज्य अध्यक्ष विधेयक क्लिंटन admitted to having था an `` improper  relationship '' while she worked at the White House in 1995 and 1996 .
The affair and its  परखना ( जिससे शामिल क्लिंटन 's महाभियोग )  became known as the Lewinsky scandal .
House of Night is a series of vampire -themed  काल्पनिक novels by अमरीकी लेखक P. C. डाल और उसके बेटी  Kristin Cast .
It follows the  adventures of zoey redbird , a sixteen-year-old लड़की जो रै बस  become a `` fledgling vampyre '' and is required to attend the House of Night boarding school in Tulsa , Oklahoma .
The series has been on  the नई यॉर्क टाइम्स बेहतरीन विक्रेता सूची लिये 63 सप्ताह  and there are over seven million copies in print in North America alone .
The sixth novel ,  इम्तिहान , जिससे गई on बिक्री on अक्तूबर 27 , 2009 साथ a पहला मुद्रण of a लाख नक़ल  , entered the USA Today bestseller list that week at # 1 .
In January , 2010 , Gezeichnet , a German  अनुवाद of चिह्नित , पहुँचे the # 1 स्पॉट on the der spiegel बेस्टसेलर सूची  .
The series has so far sold  अधिक than टेन लाख किताबे in 39  countries .
Burned was  released on अप्रैल 27 , 2010 , और जैसे इम्तिहान  , it entered the USA Today bestseller list that week at # 1 .
Awakened  , released in जनवरी , 2011 , भी  entered the list at # 1 .
The series , which  is प्रकाशित by st मार्टिन 's दबायें is नियोजित  to include twelve books .
In 2008 , plans for a  फिल्मी अनुकूलन यहूद भी घोषित  .
The tenth  किताब in the श्रेणी , छुपा , थी  released on October 16 , 2012 .
The second book in the novellas ( which  दे पृष्ठभूमि on supporting वर्ण ) , lenobia 's प्रण , थी released  January 31 , 2012 .
Book eleven is currently called Revealed , and the Casts have announced that two more novellas , Neferet’s Curse , planned to  be released फ़रवरी 19 , 2013 , और a प्रीक्वेल अनोखा परिचय kalona , हैं to be released to coincide साथ the eleventh  and twelfth books .
In Greek mythology , the Trojan War was waged against  the नगर of ट्रॉय by the achaeans ( यूनानियों ) बाद पेरिस of  Troy took Helen from her husband Menelaus king of Sparta .
The war is one of the most important events in  यूनानी mythology और रै महरूम narrated through अनेक works of यूनानी साहित्य ,  most notably through Homer 's Iliad and the Odyssey .
The Iliad relates a part of the last  साल of the घेरा of ट्रॉय ; the ओडिसी describes odysseus 's  journey home .
Other parts of the war are contained in a cycle  of एपिक कविताएं , जिससे have बच through  fragments .
Episodes from the war provided  सामग्री लिये यूनानी त्रासदी और अन्य works of यूनानी साहित्य  , and for Roman poets including Virgil and Ovid .
The war originated from a quarrel between the goddesses Athena , Hera , and Aphrodite , after  eris , the देवी of संघर्ष और अनबन , दिया उन्हें a सुनहरी ठहराना , sometimes ज्ञात as the ठहराना of अनबन  , marked `` for the fairest '' .
Zeus  भेजा the देवियाँ to पेरिस , जो judged कि  Aphrodite , as the `` fairest '' , should receive the apple .
In exchange , Aphrodite made Helen , the most  खूबसूरत of सब महिलाओं और बीवी of menelaus , पतन in प्रेम साथ पेरिस , जो  took her to Troy .
Agamemnon , king of Mycenae and the brother of Helen 's husband Menelaus , led an expedition  of achaean सैनिकों to ट्रॉय और besieged the नगर लिये टेन सालो  because of Paris ' insult .
After the deaths of many  नायक , सहित the achaeans achilles और अजाक्स , और the ट्रोजन्स हेक्टर और  Paris , the city fell to the ruse of the Trojan Horse .
The Achaeans slaughtered the Trojans ( except for some of the women and children whom they kept or sold  as स्लेव ) और desecrated the मंदिरों  , thus earning the gods ' wrath .
Few of the Achaeans returned safely to their  घरों और अनेक संस्थापित colonies in  distant shores .
The Romans later traced their origin to Aeneas , one of the Trojans  , जो थी कहा to have led the surviving ट्रोजन्स to  modern-day Italy .
The ancient Greeks thought that  the trojan युद्ध थी a ऐतिहासिक इवेंट कि था लिया प्लेस in the 13th or  12th century BC , and believed that Troy was located in modern-day Turkey near the Dardanelles .
By  आधुनिक टाइम्स , दोनो the युद्ध और the नगर  were widely believed to be non-historical .
In 1868  , however , the जर्मनी पुरातत्ववेत्ताओं heinrich schliemann मिले फ़्रैंक calvert , जो कायल schliemann कि ट्रॉय  was at Hissarlik and Schliemann took over Calvert 's excavations on property belonging to Calvert ; this claim is now accepted by most scholars .
Whether there is any  ऐतिहासिक वास्तविकता पीछे the trojan युद्ध is an खोलें  question .
Many scholars  मानना कि वहीँ is a ऐतिहासिक कोर to the टेल , हालांकि इस may बस औसत कि the homeric  stories are a fusion of various tales of sieges and expeditions by Mycenaean Greeks during the Bronze Age .
Those who believe that the stories of the Trojan War are derived from a specific historical conflict usually date it to the 12th or 11th centuries BC , often preferring the dates  दिए by इरैटोस्थनिज़ , 1194–1184 bc , जिससे roughly corresponds साथ पुरातत्व प्रमाण of a अनर्थकारी  burning of Troy VIIa .
Anarchists have employed certain  प्रतीकों लिये उनके कारण , सहित सबसे prominently the circle-a  and the black flag , although anarchists have historically largely denied the importance of symbols to political movement .
Since the revival of anarchism around  the प्रारंभ of the 21st-century संयुक्त साथ the वृद्धि of the anti-globalization गति ,  anarchist cultural symbols are widely present .
The greater palatine canal ( or pterygopalatine canal ) is a passage in the skull that transmits the greater palatine artery , vein  , और तंत्रिका between the pterygopalatine fossa और the मौखिक गुहा  .
Surface temperature of Antarctica in winter and  गर्मियाँ इससे the यूरोपीय केन्द्र लिये medium-range मौसम  Forecasts
The  जलवायु of अंटार्कटिक is the coldest  on the whole of Earth .
Antarctica has the lowest naturally  occurring तापमान कभी अंकित on the मैदान on धरती : −89.2 °c (  −128.6 °F ) at Vostok Station .
It is also extremely dry ( technically a  मरुस्थल ) , averaging 166 mm ( 6.5 in ) of वर्षण प्रति  year .
भी so , on सबसे भाग of the महाद्वीप the हिम  rarely melts and is eventually compressed to become the glacial ice that makes up the ice sheet .
Weather fronts rarely  घुस दूर into the महाद्वीप  .
Most of Antarctica has an ice cap climate ( Köppen EF ) with very cold ,  generally अत्यधिक शुष्क मौसम throughout the साल और no माह averaging ऊपर  0 °C ( 32 °F ) .
Some fringe coastal areas have a tundra climate ( Köppen ET  ) साथ a छोटी गर्मियाँ averaging  above freezing , and much higher precipitation .
Current  सिर कोच माइक tomlin  , during the 2007 season
The  पिट्सबर्ग स्टीलर्स मताधिकार रै  had 16 head coaches throughout its history .
Founded as the Pittsburgh Pirates in , the  नाम थी बदला to the स्टीलर्स prior to the ऋतु to celebrate  the city 's heritage of producing steel .
Joe Bach served two separate terms as head  कोच और वॉल्ट kiesling परोसा तीन पृथक  terms .
During the and seasons , due to the amount of players who fought in  संसार युद्ध ii , the स्टीलर्स संयुक्त उनके टोली साथ फिलाडेल्फिया और शिकागो , क्रमशः  .
During these seasons , Steelers ' coach Walt Kiesling shared  कोचिंग कर्तव्य साथ चिकनी neale और फिल हैंडलर , जो have नहीं  been included within this list .
Struggling for much of the franchise 's early years ,  the टोली 's पहला ऋतु साथ अधिक विन्स than  losses was coached by Jock Sutherland in .
In  , अंतर्गत sutherland , the स्टीलर्स  played their first playoff game against the Philadelphia Eagles .
Ten of the 16 head coaches spent their entire professional coaching careers with the franchise ,  सहित जॉन mcnally , वॉल्ट kiesling और चक  Noll , who have also been voted into the Pro Football Hall of Fame .
One of only four men to  कोच the वही टोली लिये 23 सालो , चक  Noll retired in .
Noll is also  the तभी कोच in नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल  League history to win four Super Bowls .
Bill Cowher , Noll 's replacement ,  coached the स्टीलर्स to उनके पांचवां  Super Bowl victory , in 2005 .
The  स्टीलर्स छठे सुपर कटोरी जीत आए in सुपर कटोरी xliii  , while head coached by Mike Tomlin , the team 's current head coach .
In criminal law , fraud is  जानबूझकर deception बना लिये निजी लाभ or to क्षति another व्यक्तिगत ; the सम्बन्धित  adjective is fraudulent , and verb is defraud .
Fraud is a crime and a civil  विधि उल्लंघन , हालांकि the विशिष्ट  criminal law definition varies by legal jurisdiction .
Defrauding people  or entities of धन or valuables is a आम  purpose of fraud .
A hoax also involves deception , but without the intention of gain or  of damaging or depriving the  victim .
Fraud is a defense in a  सिविल कार्रवाई लिये उल्लंघन of अनुबंध or विशिष्ट  performance of a contract .
Fraud is a basis for  निष्पक्ष क्षेत्राधिकार  .
Passover , or Pesach ( from : in Hebrew , Yiddish ) , Tiberian : , Modern Hebrew : /ˈpesaχ/ Pesah , Pesakh , Yiddish : Peysekh , Paysakh ,  paysokh ) is an महत्वपूर्ण biblically -derived यहूदी पर्व  .
Historically ,  साथ साथ shavuot ( `` पेंटेकोस्ट '' ) और sukkot ( `` झोपड़ियों '' ) , passover is एक of the तीन यात्राएं त्यौहार  ( Shalosh Regalim ) during which the entire population of the kingdom of Judah made a pilgrimage to the Temple in Jerusalem .
Samaritans still make  इस यात्राएं to माउंट gerizim , लकिन तभी मेन participate in पब्लिक  worship .
Passover commences on the 15th of the Hebrew month of Nisan and  lasts लिये either सात दिनों ( in इसराईल ) or आठ दिनों ( in the diaspora  ) .
In Judaism , a day commences at dusk and  lasts जबतक the following संध्या , यूँ the पहला दिन of passover तभी begins बाद संध्या of the 14th of nisan और  ends at dusk of the 15th day of the month of Nisan .
The rituals unique to the Passover celebrations commence with the  passover seder जब the 15th of nisan  has begun .
In the Northern  गोलार्ध passover takes प्लेस in वसन्त as the तोरा  prescribes it : `` in the month of [ the ] spring '' ( בחדש האביב ) .
It is one of the most  widely observed यहूदी छुट्टियाँ  .
The Jewish people celebrate Passover as a commemoration of their liberation over 3,300 years ago by God from slavery in ancient  मिश्र कि थी शासित by the pharaohs , और उनके जनम as a स्वदेश अंतर्गत the नेतृत्व of मूसा  .
It commemorates the story of the Exodus as described in the Hebrew Bible especially in the Book  of exodus , in जिससे the israelites यहूद freed इससे गुलामी in  Egypt .
In the narrative of the Exodus , the Bible tells that God helped the Children of Israel escape from their slavery in Egypt by inflicting ten plagues upon  the प्राचीन उन्होंने पहले the pharaoh होता रिलीज उसके israelite स्लेव ; the दसवाँ और worst  of the plagues was the death of the Egyptian first-born .
The Israelites were instructed to mark the doorposts of their homes with the blood of a slaughtered spring lamb and ,  upon देखकर इस , the स्पिरिट of the रब knew to pass over the first-born in ये घरों , hence the नाम  of the holiday .
There is some  बहस over जहाँ the पद  is actually derived from .
When the Pharaoh freed the Israelites , it is said  कि वे बाएँ in ऐसे a hurry कि  they could not wait for bread dough to rise ( leaven ) .
In commemoration  , लिये the अवधि of passover no leavened ब्रैड is खाया , लिये जिससे कारण  it is called `` The Festival of the Unleavened Bread '' .
Thus Matzo ( flat unleavened  ब्रैड ) is खाया दौरान passover और it is a प्रतीक of  the holiday .
हैली 's धूमकेतु or धूमकेतु हैली ( or ) , officially  designated 1P/Halley , is the best-known of the short-period comets and is visible from Earth every 75–76 years .
Halley is the only short-period comet that is clearly  दृश्य to the नग्न नजर इससे धरती , और यूँ the तभी naked-eye धूमकेतु कि might appear twice in  a human lifetime .
Other naked-eye comets may be brighter and more  spectacular , लकिन होगा appear तभी एकबार in हज़ारों of  years .
हैली 's रिटर्न to the भीतरी सौर प्रणाली have  been observed and recorded by astronomers since at least 240 BCE .
Clear records of the comet 's appearances were made by Chinese , Babylonian , and medieval European  chroniclers , लकिन यहूद नहीं पहचाना as reappearances of the वही ऑब्जेक्ट  at the time .
The comet 's periodicity was first determined in 1705 by  अंग्रेज़ी astronomer edmond हैली ,  after whom it is now named .
हैली 's धूमकेतु पिछला appeared in the  inner Solar System in 1986 and will next appear in mid-2061 .
During its 1986 apparition , Halley became the first comet to be observed in detail by spacecraft  , providing the पहला observational आंकड़ा on the ढांचा of a धूमकेतु केंद्रक और the यांत्रिकी of कोमा और टेल  formation .
These observations supported  a क्रमांक of longstanding hypotheses परिचय धूमकेतु निर्माण , विशेषकर फ्रेड whipple 's `` गंदा स्नोबॉल '' मॉडल , जिससे correctly पूर्वानुमानित कि हैली होता be  composed of a mixture of volatile ices – such as water , carbon dioxide and ammonia – and dust .
The missions also  provided आंकड़ा जिससे substantially reformed और reconfigured ये विचार ; लिये उदाहरण it is अभी समझा कि हैली 's सतह  is largely composed of dusty , non-volatile materials , and that only a small portion of it is icy .
Anti-communism is  विपक्ष to  communism .
Organized anti-communism developed in  प्रतिक्रिया to the वृद्धि of साम्यवादी , विशेषकर बाद the 1917 अक्तूबर क्रान्ति in रूस  and reaching global dimensions during the Cold War .
Most anti-communists  अस्वीकृत the अवधारणा of ऐतिहासिक भौतिकवाद , जिससे is a सेंट्रल  idea in Marxism .
Anti-communists reject the  मार्क्सवादी विश्वास कि पूंजीवाद होगा be followed by समाजवादी और साम्यवादी ,  just as feudalism was followed by capitalism .
Anti-communists question the validity of the Marxist claim that the socialist state will ``  wither दूर '' जब it becomes अनावश्यक in a सच्चा कम्युनिस्ट  society .
Anti-communists argue that the repression in the early years of Bolshevik rule , while not as extreme as that during Joseph Stalin 's rule , was still severe by reasonable standards , citing examples such as Felix Dzerzhinsky 's secret police , which  eliminated numerous राजनैतिक प्रतिद्वंद्वियों by extrajudicial executions , और the क्रूर crushing of the kronstadt विद्रोह  and Tambov rebellion .
कुछ anti-communists refer to दोनो साम्यवादी और फासीवाद as सर्वसत्तावाद  , seeing similarity between the actions of communist and fascist governments .
Historian Robert Conquest has argued that Communism was  जिम्मेदार लिये tens of लाखो of मौतों दौरान the  20th century .
Opponents  argue कि कम्युनिस्ट पार्टियों कि  have come to power have tended to be rigidly intolerant of political opposition .
These opponents claim that most Communist countries have shown no signs of advancing from Marx 's  समाजवादी स्टेज of अर्थव्यवस्था to an आदर्श कम्युनिस्ट  stage .
Rather , Communist governments have been accused of creating a new ruling class ( a Nomenklatura ) , with powers and  privileges वृहद than those previously enjoyed by the अपर वर्ग in  the non- communist regimes .
Gil Heron ( 9  अप्रैल 1922 – 27 नवम्बर 2008 ) थी a  Jamaican professional footballer .
He was  the पहला ब्लैक खिलाड़ी to खेल लिये स्कॉटिश क्लबों  Celtic , and was the father of poet and musician Gil Scott-Heron .
He died in  डेट्रॉयट of a दिल आक्रमण on 27 नवम्बर  2008 .
The soybean ( US ) or soya bean ( UK ) ( Glycine max ) is a  प्रजाति of legume देशी to ईस्ट एशिया , widely grown लिये इसके खाद्य सेम जिससे रै numerous उपयोग  .
The plant is classed as an oilseed rather than a pulse  by the un खाना और agricultural  Organization ( FAO ) .
Fat-free ( defatted ) soybean meal is a significant and cheap source of  प्रोटीन लिये एनिमल फ़ीड्स और अनेक prepackaged meals ; सोया सब्ज़ी  oil is another product of processing the soybean crop .
For example , soybean products  ऐसे as textured सब्ज़ी प्रोटीन ( tvp ) हैं संघटक in अनेक मांस और दुग्ध analogues  .
Soybeans  उपज significantly अधिक प्रोटीन प्रति एकड़ than  most other uses of land .
Traditional nonfermented  खाना उपयोग of soybeans शामिल सोया मिल्क  , and from the latter tofu and tofu skin .
fermented भोजन शामिल सोया सॉस , fermented सेम paste  , natto , and tempeh , among others .
the आयल is प्रयुक्त in अनेक औद्योगिक  applications .
The main producers of  सोया हैं the संयुक्त राज्य ( 35 % ) , ब्राज़ील ( 27 % ) , अर्जेंटीना ( 19 % ) , चीन ( 6 % )  and India ( 4 % ) .
The beans contain  significant amounts of phytic एसिड , alpha-linolenic  acid , and isoflavones .
हैरिसन घाट ( born जुलाई 13 , 1942  ) is an American film actor and producer .
He is famous for  उसके प्रदर्शन as हान सोलो in the असली स्टार युद्धों त्रयी और the  title character of the Indiana Jones film series .
Ford is also known for his roles  as रिक deckard in ब्लेड धावक , जॉन किताब in गवाह और  Jack Ryan in Patriot Games and Clear and Present Danger .
His career has spanned six decades and includes roles in several  हॉलीवुड blockbusters , सहित presumed निर्दोष  , The Fugitive , Air Force One , and What Lies Beneath .
At one point , four of  the शीर्ष छह box-office हिट्स of सब समय  included one of his roles .
पाँच of उसके films have महरूम inducted  into the National Film Registry .
in 1997 , घाट थी क्रमित no . 1 in साम्राज्य `` the  Top 100 Movie Stars of All Time '' list .
, the United States domestic box office grosses of Ford 's  films कुल over us $ 3.5 अरब , साथ विश्वव्यापी grosses surpassing $ 6 अरब , बनाना घाट the तीसरा उच्चतम grossing  U.S. domestic box-office star .
घाट is the husband of अभिनेत्री  Calista Flockhart .
a ट्यूब of  ChapStick
ChapStick is a brand name for lip balm manufactured  by फाइजर उपभोक्ता healthcare और प्रयुक्त in अनेक देशों  worldwide .
It is  intended to सहायता दावत और prevent chapped होठ  ; hence the name .
Many varieties also  शामिल सनस्क्रीन in अनुक्रम  to prevent sunburn .
Due to its popularity , the  पद रै become a genericized ट्रेडमार्क  .
It popularly refers to any lip balm contained in a  lipstick-style ट्यूब और लागू in the वही manner  as lipstick .
however , the पद is स्टिल a पंजीकृत  trademark , with rights exclusively owned by Pfizer .
In Sweden and in the United Kingdom , the product 's main  प्रतिस्पर्धी is lypsyl ,  made by Novartis Consumer Health , which is distributed in similar packaging to ChapStick .
George Berkeley ( ; 12 March 168514 January 1753 ) , also known as Bishop Berkeley ( Bishop of Cloyne ) , was an Anglo-Irish philosopher whose  प्राथमिक उपलब्धि थी the उन्नति of a सिद्धान्त he पुकारा `` immaterialism '' ( बाद referred to as `` subjective आदर्शवाद `` by अन्य  ) .
This theory denies the existence of material substance and instead  contends कि परिचित वस्तुएँ जैसे टेबल और कुर्सियां हैं तभी विचार in the minds  of perceivers , and as a result can not exist without being perceived .
Thus , as Berkeley famously put it  , लिये शारीरिक वस्तुएँ `` esse est percipi '' (  `` to be is to be perceived `` ) .
Berkeley is also known for his critique of abstraction ,  an महत्वपूर्ण आधार in उसके तर्क  for immaterialism .
In 1709 , Berkeley published his first major work , , in  जिससे he discussed the सीमाएं of इंसान दृष्टि और उन्नत the सिद्धान्त कि the उचित वस्तुएँ of sight हैं नहीं सामग्री  objects , but light and colour .
This foreshadowed his chief philosophical work A Treatise Concerning the Principles of Human  ज्ञान in 1710 जिससे , बाद इसके ग़रीब रिसेप्शन , he rewrote in संवाद रूप और प्रकाशित अंतर्गत the शीर्षक  Three Dialogues between Hylas and Philonous in 1713 .
In this book , Berkeley 's views were represented by Philonous ( Greek : 'lover  of दिमाग ' ) , जबकि hylas ( यूनानी : 'मैटr ' ) embodies the आयरिश  thinker’s opponents , in particular John Locke .
Berkeley argued against Sir  इसहाक़ न्यूटन 's doctrine of निरपेक्ष स्पेस , समय और गति in de मोटू  ( on Motion ) , published 1721 .
His arguments were a precursor to the  दृश्य of mach और आइंस्टीन  .
In 1732 , he published Alciphron , a Christian apologetic against the free-thinkers , and in 1734 ,  he प्रकाशित the विश्लेषक , an empiricist critique of the मूलाधार  of infinitesimal calculus , which was influential in the development of mathematics .
His last major  philosophical कार्य , siris ( 1744 ) , begins by वकालत the औषधीय उपयोग of तारकोल जल , और तब continues  to discuss a wide range of topics including science , philosophy , and theology .
Interest in  बर्कली 's कार्य increased बाद संसार युद्ध ii , क्युकी he tackled अनेक of the मुद्दे  of paramount interest to philosophy in the 20th century such as the problems of perception , the difference between primary and secondary qualities , and the importance of language .
Qingdao ( ) , historically known as Tsingtao , is a major city  in पूर्वी शानदोंग प्रांत , पूर्वी चीन , साथ  a population of over 8.715 million ( 2010 census ) .
Its built up  क्षेत्रफल , बना of 6 शहरी जिले और 4  county-level cities , is home to about 4,896,000 inhabitants in 2010 .
It  सीमायें yantai to the पूर्वोत्तर , weifang  to the west and Rizhao to the southwest .
Qīng ( ) in Chinese  अर्थात् `` ग्रीन '' or `` रसीले  '' , while dǎo ( ) means `` island '' .
Qingdao is administered at the  sub-provincial  level .
Lying across the Shandong Peninsula while looking out to the Yellow Sea ,  चिंगदाओ is a प्रमुख seaport , नवल  base , and industrial centre .
It is also the site of the  tsingtao ब्रेवरी  .
The  संसार 's longest समुद्र सेतु , the चिंगदाओ haiwan सेतु , कड़ी the प्रमुख शहरी क्षेत्रफल  of Qingdao with Huangdao district , straddling the Jiaozhou Bay sea areas .
Qingdao is named  चीन 's सबसे livable  city .
Mimivirus is a viral genus containing a single identified species named Acanthamoeba  polyphaga mimivirus ( apmv ) , or is a समूह of phylogenetically सम्बन्धित विशाल  viruses ( designated usually MimiN ) .
In colloquial speech ,  apmv is अधिक commonly referred  to as just `` mimivirus '' .
Until October 2011 , when a larger  वायरस megavirus chilensis थी वर्णित , it था the largest capsid व्यास  of all known viruses .
mimivirus रै a विशाल और जटिल genome compared साथ  most other viruses .
Mimivirus , short for `` mimicking microbe  '' , is so पुकारा to  reflect its large size and apparent Gram-staining properties .
The Mexican War of Independence ( 1810–1821 ) was an armed  विरोध between the लोगों of मैक्सिको और the स्पेनी  colonial authorities which started on September 16 , 1810 .
The movement , which became known as  the मैक्सिकन युद्ध of स्वतंत्रता , थी led by mexican-born spaniards , mestizos और amerindians  who sought independence from Spain .
It started as an  आदर्शवादी peasants ' विद्रोह विरूद्ध उनके औपनिवेशिक मास्टर्स , लकिन ended as an असंभावित गठबंधन between मैक्सिकन ex-royalists  and Mexican guerrilla insurgents .
Crohn 's disease , also known as Crohn  सिंड्रोम और क्षेत्रीय enteritis , is a प्रकार of जलन bowel बीमारी कि may affect कोई भाग of  the gastrointestinal tract from mouth to anus , causing a wide variety of symptoms .
It  primarily कल्याणकारी abdominal पीड़ा , अतिसार ( जिससे may be खूनी if सूजन is at इसके worst ) , उल्टी ( can be निरन्तर ) , or वज़न घाटा , लकिन may भी कारण जटिलताओं बाहर the जठरांत्र  tract such as skin rashes , arthritis , inflammation of the eye , tiredness , and lack of concentration .
Crohn 's disease is caused by interactions between  पर्यावरणीय , immunological और बैक्टीरियल कारकों in genetically  susceptible individuals .
This  परिणाम in a दीर्घकालिक जलन विकार , in जिससे the देह 's प्रतिरक्षा प्रणाली  attacks the gastrointestinal tract possibly directed at microbial antigens .
Crohn 's disease has wrongly been  वर्णित as an असंक्राम्य बीमारी in the पास्ट ; हाल जांचकर्ताओं have वर्णित it  as an immune deficiency state .
There is a genetic association with Crohn 's disease , primarily with  विसंगतियाँ of the nod2 जीन और इसके प्रोटीन , जिससे होश बैक्टीरियल कोशिका दीवारें  .
सहोदर of प्रभावित individuals  are at higher risk .
Males and  महिलाओं हैं बराबर  affected .
Smokers are two times more likely to  develop crohn 's बीमारी than nonsmokers  .
Crohn 's  बीमारी affects between 400,000  and 600,000 people in North America .
Prevalence estimates for Northern Europe  have ranged इससे 27–48 प्रति 100,000  .
Crohn 's disease tends  to उपस्थित initially in the किशोर और twenties , साथ another शिखर incidence  in the fifties to seventies , although the disease can occur at any age .
There is no  ज्ञात फार्मास्युटिकल or सर्जिकल इलाज़  for Crohn 's disease .
उपचार विकल्प हैं प्रतिबंधित to controlling  symptoms , maintaining remission , and preventing relapse .
The disease was named after gastroenterologist Burrill Bernard Crohn , who , in 1932 , together with two other colleagues  at माउंट sinai हॉस्पिटल in नई यॉर्क , वर्णित a श्रेणी of मरीजों साथ सूजन of the टर्मिनल ileum , the क्षेत्रफल सबसे commonly प्रभावित by the बीमारी .
This  is an अधूरी सूची of the tallest  buildings and structures by country .
The list directly includes the tallest buildings and  structures लिये प्रत्येक देश , और जहाँ उचित ,  it also points to more detailed country-specific lists .
Rough and Ready is a census-designated  प्लेस in नेवाडा काउंटी , कैलिफ़ोर्निया , संयुक्त  States .
it is स्तिथ वेस्ट of ग्रास घाटी , कैलिफ़ोर्निया  , approximately 62 miles ( 100 km ) from Sacramento .
The  जनसांख्यिकी थी 963 at  the 2010 census .
YouTube is a video-sharing website , created by three  पूर्व paypal कर्मचारी in फ़रवरी 2005 , on जिससे उपयोक्ता can अपलोड , दृश्य  and share videos .
The company is based in San Bruno , California , and uses Adobe Flash Video and HTML5 technology to  प्रदर्शक a चौड़ी किस्में of user-generated वीडियो सामग्री , सहित फिल्म क्लिप्स , tv क्लिप्स , और म्यूज़िक वीडियो , as खूब as amateur सामग्री ऐसे as वीडियो blogging , छोटी  original videos , and educational videos .
Most of the content on YouTube has been uploaded by individuals , although media  corporations सहित सीबीएस , the बीबीसी , vevo , hulu , और अन्य संगठन प्रस्ताव  some of their material via the site , as part of the YouTube partnership program .
Unregistered users can watch videos , while  पंजीकृत उपयोक्ता can अपलोड an असीमित क्रमांक  of videos .
Videos considered to  contain potentially अप्रिय सामग्री हैं उपलब्धियाँ तभी to पंजीकृत उपयोक्ता  at least 18 years old .
In November 2006 , YouTube , LLC was  खरीदा by google लिये us $ 1.65 अरब , और operates as a  subsidiary of Google .
Sister Act is a musical written by Cheri Steinkellner and Bill  steinkellner साथ अतिरिक्त किताब सामग्री by डगलस कार्टर beane ,  with lyrics by Glenn Slater and music by Alan Menken .
It is based on  the hit 1992 फिल्मी कॉमेडी of the वही  name .
The 2009 West End production was produced by Stage  entertainment , whoopi गोल्डबर्ग , और माइकल रेनो लिये  Sis Acts LLC .
Goldberg is also a  निर्माता of the 2011 ब्रॉडवे अनुकूलन  .
Microsoft DirectX is a collection of application  प्रोग्रामिंग अंतरफलक ( api ) लिये हैंडलिंग कार्य सम्बन्धित to मल्टीमीडिया , विशेषकर खेल प्रोग्रामिंग  and video , on Microsoft platforms .
Originally , the names of these APIs all began with Direct , such  as direct3d , directdraw , directmusic , directplay , directsound  , and so forth .
The name DirectX was coined as shorthand term for all of these APIs ( the X  खड़ा in लिये the particular api names ) और जल्द became the नाम of the  collection .
When Microsoft later set out to develop a gaming console , the X  थी प्रयुक्त as the आधार of the नाम एक्सबॉक्स to indicate  that the console was based on DirectX technology .
The X initial has been carried forward in the naming of APIs designed  लिये the एक्सबॉक्स ऐसे as xinput और the cross-platform ऑडियो सृष्टि औजार ( xact ) , जबकि the डाइरेक्टएक्स पैटर्न रै महरूम जारी  for Windows APIs such as Direct2D and DirectWrite .
Direct3D ( the 3D graphics API within DirectX ) is widely used in the development of video  खेल लिये microsoft खिड़कियाँ , microsoft एक्सबॉक्स , microsoft एक्सबॉक्स 360 और कुछ  Sega Dreamcast games .
Direct3D is also used by other  तन्त्र अनुप्रयोग लिये कल्पना और ग्राफिक्स कार्य ऐसे  as CAD/CAM engineering .
As Direct3D is the most widely publicized component of DirectX , it is  आम to देखिए the names `` डाइरेक्टएक्स '' और `` direct3d '' प्रयुक्त interchangeably  .
The DirectX software development kit ( SDK ) consists of  runtime पुस्तकालयों in redistributable शब्दकोष रूप , साथ साथ accompanying  documentation and headers for use in coding .
Originally , the runtimes were only  संस्थापित by खेल or explicitly  by the user .
Windows 95 did not  लॉन्च साथ डाइरेक्टएक्स , लकिन डाइरेक्टएक्स  was included with Windows 95 OEM Service Release 2 .
Windows 98 and Windows  nt 4.0 दोनो shipped साथ डाइरेक्टएक्स , as रै प्रत्येक संस्करण  of Windows released since .
The SDK is available as  a फ़्री डाउनलोड  .
While the runtimes are  मालिकाना , closed-source तन्त्र , सोर्स कोड is provided लिये  most of the SDK samples .
Starting with the release of Windows 8 Developer Preview , DirectX  sdk रै महरूम एकीकृत into खिड़कियाँ  SDK .
Direct3D 9Ex , Direct3D 10 , and  direct3d 11 हैं तभी उपलब्धियाँ लिये खिड़कियाँ विस्टा और नए क्युकी प्रत्येक of ये नई संस्करण थी निर्मित to निर्भर upon the नई खिड़कियाँ प्रदर्शक ड्राइवर मॉडल कि थी introduced लिये  Windows Vista .
The new Vista/WDDM graphics architecture includes a new video  मेमोरी मैनेजर supporting आभासीकरण of ग्राफिक्स हार्डवेयर लिये विभिन्न अनुप्रयोग और सेवाएं जैसे  the Desktop Window Manager .
Quetzaltenango ,  भी commonly ज्ञात by इसके स्वदेशी नाम , xelajú , or अधिक  commonly , Xela , is the second largest city of Guatemala .
It is both the capital of Quetzaltenango Department  और the नगरपालिका सीट of quetzaltenango नगरपालिका  .
It has an estimated  जनसांख्यिकी of 224,703 .
The  जनसांख्यिकी is परिचय 61 % स्वदेशी or amerindian  , 34 % Mestizo or ladino and 5 % European .
Quetzaltenango is located in a mountain valley at an  उन्नयन of 2,330 मीटर ( 7,655 ft ) ऊपर समुद्र स्तर at  its lowest part .
It may reach  ऊपर 2,400 मीटर भीतर  the city .
The  नगरपालिका of quetzaltenango consists of an  area of .
Municipalities abutting the  नगरपालिका of quetzaltenango शामिल : salcajá , cantel , almolonga , zunil , el palmar , concepción chiquirichapa , सैन mateo  , La Esperanza , Olintepeque , and San Andrés Xecul .
All these  municipalities हैं भाग of the विभाग of quetzaltenango , मगर सैन आन्द्रेस  Xecul which is a part of the Department of Totonicapán .
The Epic  of gilgamesh , an एपिक कविता इससे मेसोपोटामिया , is  amongst the earliest surviving works of literature .
The literary history of  gilgamesh begins साथ पाँच स्वतंत्र sumerian कविताएं परिचय 'bilgamesh  ' ( Sumerian for Gilgamesh ) , king of Uruk .
Four of these  यहूद प्रयुक्त as सोर्स सामग्री लिये  a combined epic in Akkadian .
This first combined epic , known as the `` Old Babylonian '' version ,  तिथियाँ to the 18th सदी bc और is titled बाद इसके incipit , shūtur एली sharrī ( `` surpassing सब अन्य  Kings '' ) .
Only  a few fragments  of it have survived .
The later `` Standard Babylonian '' version dates from the 13th  to the 10th सदियां bc और bears the incipit शा naqba īmuru ( `` he जो देखी the  Deep '' ) .
Fragments of approximately two thirds of  इस longer , twelve-tablet संस्करण have महरूम  recovered .
Some  of the बेहतरीन नक़ल यहूद खोजा  in the library ruins of the 7th-century BC Assyrian king Ashurbanipal .
The story centers on a friendship  between gilgamesh और enkidu  .
Enkidu  is a जंगली man निर्मित by the देवताओं as gilgamesh 's बराबर  to distract him from oppressing the people of Uruk .
Together , they  यात्रा to the देवदार पहाड़ to शिकस्त humbaba  , its monstrous guardian .
Later they kill the Bull of Heaven , which the goddess  इश्तार भेजना to सजा gilgamesh लिये spurning उसके अग्रिम  .
As a punishment for these actions , the gods  वाक्य enkidu to मौत  .
The second half of the epic focuses on Gilgamesh 's distress at  enkidu 's मौत , और उसके क्वेस्ट लिये अमरत्व  .
In order to learn the  रहस्य of अनन्त जीवन , gilgamesh undertakes a long और  perilous journey .
He learns that  `` the जीवन कि तुम हैं seeking तुम होगा  never find .
When the gods created man they allotted to him  मौत , लकिन जीवन वे retained in उनके अपना keeping  . ''
This quote was originally attributed to Siduri in the Old Babylonian version of the epic  , और तब attributed to the अमर बाढ़ नायिका utnapishtim in the अक्कादी  version of the epic .
Nevertheless , Gilgamesh 's fame lived on after his death , because  of उसके ग्रेट भवन प्रोजेक्ट , और उसके खाता of कया utnapishtim  told him happened during the flood .
The story has been translated into many different languages , and  gilgamesh रै चूंकि become adapted in works of लोकप्रिय fiction  .
There  हैं numerous debates over जो निर्मित the पहला वीडियो खेल  , with the answer depending largely on how video games are defined .
The evolution of video games represents a tangled web of several different industries ,  सहित वैज्ञानिक , कंप्यूटर , आर्केड , और  consumer electronics .
The ``  वीडियो '' in `` वीडियो खेल ``  traditionally refers to a raster display device .
With the popular catch phrase use of the term `` video game ''  , the पद अभी implies सब प्रदर्शक प्रकार  , formats , and platforms .
Historians have also sought to bypass the issue by  बजाय using the अधिक विशिष्ट `` डिजिटल खेल  '' descriptive .
This term leaves out the earlier  analog-based कंप्यूटर खेल  .
This is a list of  best-selling वीडियो खेल franchises कि have बेची  or shipped at least 5 million copies .
Unless otherwise stated , numbers  indicate विश्वव्यापी इकाई बेची , ordered alphabetically  whenever two or more list the same amount .
The exception are the ones specifying  शिपमेंट , जिससे have निम्नतर पूर्वता than अन्य लिस्टिंग  sales .
Franchise sales include  विस्तार पैक भी हालांकि वे हैं नहीं  considered full video games .
For best-selling individual video games , see  सूची of best-selling वीडियो खेल  .
The sales figures given below  do नहीं शामिल आर्केड खेल बिक्री , जिससे  can be found at List of highest-grossing arcade video games .
– This color indicates a sub-series  of a larger वीडियो खेल मताधिकार  .
This does not  necessarily लागू लिये श्रेणी कि हैं  not video game-based .
Dorothy Ann Willis Richards ( September 1 , 1933 – September 13 , 2006  ) थी an अमरीकी राजनेता  and the 45th Governor of Texas .
She first came to national attention as the state  कोषाध्यक्ष of टेक्सास , जब वो वितरित the keynote पता at the 1988 लोकतांत्रिक नेशनल  Convention .
रिचर्ड्स परोसा as the 45th राज्यपाल of टेक्सास इससे  1991 to 1995 and was defeated for re-election in 1994 by George W. Bush .
Ann Richards was the second  मादा राज्यपाल of टेक्सास  .
Data Execution  रोकथाम ( dep ) is a सुरक्षा विशेषता शामिल in आधुनिक ऑपरेटिंग प्रणालियों  .
It is known to be available in Linux , Mac OS X , iOS , Microsoft Windows and Android  ऑपरेटिंग प्रणालियों और is intended to prevent an अनुप्रयोग or सेवा इससे निष्पादित कोड इससे a non-executable  memory region .
This helps  prevent निश्चित कारनामे कि स्टोर कोड  via a buffer overflow , for example .
DEP runs in two modes : hardware-enforced DEP for CPUs that can mark memory pages as nonexecutable , and  software-enforced dep साथ सीमित सुरक्षा लिये cpu कि do नहीं have हार्डवेयर  support .
Software-enforced DEP does not protect against execution of code in data pages ,  लकिन बजाय counters seh मिटाकर , another प्रकार  of attack .
DEP was introduced on  लिनक्स in 2004 ( कर्नेल 2.6.8 ) , on खिड़कियाँ in 2004 साथ खिड़कियाँ  XP Service Pack 2 , while Apple introduced DEP when they moved to x86 in 2006 .
Example  उदाहरण of दो आम  futanari variants
, is the Japanese word for  hermaphroditism , जिससे is भी प्रयुक्त in a broader  sense for androgyny .
Beyond Japan the term is used to describe a  commonly pornographic विधा of कंप्यूटर खेल , कॉमिक्स और एनिमेशन , जिससे शामिल वर्ण कि दिखाएँ दोनो  primary sexual characteristics .
But in  आज 's भाषा it refers लगभग  exclusively for characters who have an overall feminine appearance .
In that case the term is also often abbreviated as futa ( s ) , which  is occasionally भी प्रयुक्त as पद लिये the  works itself .
जल्दी captchas ऐसे as ये , उत्पन्न  by the EZ-Gimpy program , were used on Yahoo !
A modern CAPTCHA , rather than attempting to  बनाएँ a distorted पृष्ठभूमि और ऊँची स्तर of warping on the टेक्स्ट , might फ़ोकस on  making segmentation difficult by adding an angled line .
Another way to make segmentation difficult is to crowd symbols together , as  in याहू ! 's वर्तमान captcha स्वरूप .
Some CAPTCHAs  कोशिश to utilize the क्षमता of  people to see three-dimensional objects .
On this  चित्र , प्रतीकों हैं drawn साथ लाइनों of अलग  thickness to make an effect of extrusion .
A CAPTCHA ( ) is a type  of challenge-response परीक्षण प्रयुक्त in कम्प्यूटिंग as an attempt to  ensure that the response is generated by a human being .
The process usually involves a computer  पूछे a उपयोक्ता to पूरा a सरल परीक्षण जिससे  the computer is able to grade .
These tests are designed to be easy for a computer to generate but  मुश्किल लिये a कंप्यूटर to solve , लकिन again आसान लिये a इंसान .
If a correct  समाधान is प्राप्त , it can be presumed  to have been entered by a human .
A common  प्रकार of captcha requires the उपयोक्ता to प्रकार अक्षर and/or अंक इससे  a distorted image that appears on the screen .
Such tests are commonly used to prevent  अनावश्यक अंतरजाल बॉट इससे accessing वेबसाइटों , चूंकि a सामान्य इंसान can easily  read a CAPTCHA , while the bot can not process the image letters and therefore , can not answer properly , or at all .
Although most CAPTCHAs are letter pictures randomly generated , many of them have become difficult even for a human to read , so  चित्र captchas यहूद निर्मित in जिससे a इंसान is दिखाया a सरल परीक्षण to दिखाएँ a चित्र of a निश्चित एनिमल ( दिए few एनिमल तस्वीरें  ) , which is simple for a human being to process , and therefore easy to pick , while a bot can not process and solve the question because although it can analyze the picture , it can not easily guess the animal .
The term `` CAPTCHA '' was coined in 2000 by  लुइस वोन ahn , मैनुएल ब्लम , निकोलस J. हॉपर , और जॉन langford ( सब of  Carnegie Mellon University ) .
It is an acronym based on the  शब्द `` कैप्चर '' और खड़ा लिये `` completely स्वचालित पब्लिक turing  test to tell Computers and Humans Apart '' .
कार्नेगी mellon विश्वविद्यालयों attempted to ट्रेडमार्क the पद on 15 अक्तूबर 2004  , but the trademark application was abandoned on 21 April 2008 .
A CAPTCHA is sometimes described as a reverse Turing test , because it is administered  by a यंत्र और targeted at a इंसान , in कंट्रास्ट to the मानक turing परीक्षण कि is typically administered  by a human and targeted at a machine .
Jacques-Yves Cousteau ( ; commonly known in English as Jacques Cousteau ; 11 June 1910 – 25 June 1997 ) was a French naval officer ,  एक्सप्लोरर , conservationist , फिल्मकार , innovator , वैज्ञानिक , फ़ोटोग्राफ़र , लेखक और शोधकर्ता जो पढ़ाई the समुद्र और सब फ़ॉर्म of  life in water .
He co-developed the Aqua-Lung , pioneered marine  संरक्षण और थी a सदस्य of the académie française  .
KFC ( Kentucky Fried Chicken ) is a fast food  रेस्तरां कड़ी headquartered in louisville , केंटकी , संयुक्त राज्य  , which specializes in fried chicken .
An `` American icon '' , it is the world 's second largest  रेस्तरां कड़ी overall ( as measured by बिक्री ) बाद मैकडोनाल्ड 's , साथ over 18,000 आउटलेट in 120  countries and territories .
The company is a  subsidiary of यम !
Brands ,  a रेस्तरां कम्पनी जिससे भी owns पिज़्ज़ा हट और  Taco Bell .
KFC was founded by Harland Sanders , who began selling fried chicken  इससे उसके roadside रेस्तरां in कोर्बिन , केंटकी  during the Great Depression .
Sanders was one of the first people to see the potential of the restaurant  फ़्रेंचाइज़िंग अवधारणा , साथ the पहला `` केंटकी fried मुर्गा '' मताधिकार  opening in Utah in 1952 .
The franchise popularized chicken in the fast food  उद्योग , thereby diversifying the मार्केट और चुनौतीपूर्ण the दबदबा  of the hamburger .
Marketing himself as `` Colonel Sanders '' , he became a legendary figure of  अमरीकी सांस्कृतिक इतिहास , और उसके चित्र  is still prominently used in KFC branding .
the कम्पनी 's रैपिड विस्तार देखी it grow too विशाल लिये सैंडर्स to मैनेज , और in 1964 he बेची  the company to a group of investors led by John Y . Brown , Jr. and Jack Massey .
KFC was one of the first fast food chains to expand internationally , opening  आउटलेट in इंग्लैण्ड , मैक्सिको और प्यूर्टो रीको by the mid-1960s  .
throughout the 1970s और 1980s , केएफसी अनुभवी मिश्रित सौभाग्य domestically , as it गई  through a series of corporate owners who had little or no experience in the restaurant business .
In the early 1970s , KFC was sold to the spirits firm Heublein ,  जो यहूद लिया over by the r.J. रेनॉल्ड्स खाना और तम्बाकू संगुटिका , जो बेची the कड़ी to पेप्सिको  .
The chain continued to  विस्तार विदेशी however , और in 1987 केएफसी became the पहला पश्चिमी  restaurant chain to open in China .
The chain has since expanded rapidly in  चीन , और the देश is अभी  the company 's most profitable market .
PepsiCo spun off its restaurants division as Tricon  वैश्विक रेस्तरां , जिससे बाद बदला इसके  name to Yum !
ब्रांड्स  .
KFC primarily sells fried chicken pieces and variations such as chicken sandwiches and wraps , salads and  पक्ष बर्तन ऐसे as फ्रेंच फ्राइज़ और coleslaw , desserts और नरम पेय  , often supplied by PepsiCo .
Its most famous product is pressure fried chicken pieces ,  seasoned साथ सैंडर्स ' `` असली रेसिपी  '' of 11 herbs and spices .
The exact nature of these ingredients is  अनजान , और represents a notable  trade secret .
Larger portions of fried chicken  हैं परोसा in a distinctive गत्ता `` बाल्टी '' , जिससे रै become  a signature of the chain since being introduced by franchisee Pete Harman .
KFC is famous  लिये the स्लोगन `` उंगली lickin ' शुभ '' , जिससे  has since been replaced by `` Nobody does chicken like KFC '' and `` So good '' .
निडारिया ( साथ a मूक c ) or coelenterata is a phylum containing over 10,000 प्रजाति  of animals found exclusively in aquatic and mostly marine environments .
Their distinguishing feature is cnidocytes ,  specialized कोशिकाएं कि वे उपयोग मुख्यतः लिये capturing शिकार  .
उनके लाशें consist of mesoglea , a non-living jelly-like पदार्थ  , sandwiched between two layers of epithelium that are mostly one cell thick .
They have two basic body forms : swimming medusae and sessile polyps , both of which are  radially सममित साथ mouths घिरी by tentacles कि भालू cnidocytes  .
Both forms have a  सिंगल orifice और देह गुहा कि हैं प्रयुक्त लिये  digestion and respiration .
Many  cnidarian प्रजाति उपज colonies  that are single organisms composed of medusa-like or polyp-like zooids , or both .
Cnidarians ' activities are  समन्वित by a विकेन्द्रित तंत्रिका  net and simple receptors .
Several  free-swimming cubozoa और scyphozoa possess balance-sensing  statocysts , and some have simple eyes .
नहीं सब cnidarians  reproduce sexually .
Many have complex  lifecycles साथ अलैंगिक polyp चरण और यौन medusae , लकिन  some omit either the polyp or the medusa stage .
Cnidarians were for a long  समय grouped साथ ctenophores in the phylum coelenterata  , but increasing awareness of their differences caused them to be placed in separate phyla .
Cnidarians are  वर्गीकृत into चार प्रमुख समूह : the लगभग wholly स्थानबद्ध anthozoa ( समुद्र anemones , corals , समुद्र पेन ) ; तैराकी scyphozoa  ( jellyfish ) ; Cubozoa ( box jellies ) ; and Hydrozoa , a diverse group that includes all the freshwater cnidarians as well as many marine forms , and has both sessile members such as Hydra and colonial swimmers such as the Portuguese Man o ' War .
Staurozoa have recently been recognised  as a क्लास in उनके अपना सही बल्कि than a sub-group of scyphozoa , और वहीँ is बहस परिचय whether  Myxozoa and Polypodiozoa are cnidarians or closer to bilaterians ( more complex animals ) .
Most cnidarians prey on organisms ranging in size from plankton to  पशु अनेक टाइम्स larger than themselves , लकिन अनेक obtain much of उनके पोषण इससे  endosymbiotic algae , and a few are parasites .
अनेक हैं preyed upon by अन्य पशु  including starfish , sea slugs , fish and turtles .
Coral reefs ,  जिनकी polyps हैं समृद्ध in endosymbiotic शैवाल , support कुछ of the संसार 's सबसे उत्पादक ecosystems  , and protect vegetation in tidal zones and on shorelines from strong currents and tides .
While corals are almost entirely restricted to warm ,  उथले समुद्री waters , अन्य cnidarians सजीव in the गहराइयों , in ध्रुवीय समंदर और  in freshwater .
Fossil cnidarians have been found in rocks formed about , and  अन्य जीवाश्मों दिखाएँ कि corals may have महरूम उपस्थित shortly पहले और diversified  a few million years later .
Fossils of cnidarians that do not build  mineralized structures हैं बहुत  rare .
Scientists currently think that cnidarians , ctenophores and  bilaterians हैं अधिक closely सम्बन्धित to calcareous sponges than ये हैं to अन्य sponges , और कि anthozoans हैं the विकासवादी  `` aunts '' or `` sisters '' of other cnidarians , and the most closely related to bilaterians .
Recent analyses have concluded that cnidarians , although  माना अधिक `` आदिम '' than bilaterians , have  a wider range of genes .
The Aztec Pyramid  at st. cecilia acatitlan , मैक्सिको  State .
Aztec jade mask depicting the  परमेश्वर xipe totec  .
Large  सिरेमिक प्रतिमा of an  Aztec Eagle Warrior
एज़टेक cosmogram in the pre-hispanic  Codex Fejérváry-Mayer - the fire god Xiuhtecuhtli is in the center .
The Aztec people were certain ethnic groups of central Mexico , particularly those groups who spoke the Nahuatl  भाषा और जो वर्चस्व विशाल भाग of मेसोअमेरिका इससे the 14th  to 16th centuries .
The Nahuatl words aztecatl ( singular ) and aztecah ( plural ) mean `` people  इससे aztlan `` , a पौराणिक प्लेस लिये the nahuatl-speaking संस्कृति of the समय ,  and later adopted as the word to define the Mexica people .
Often the term `` Aztec '' refers exclusively to the Mexica  लोगों of tenochtitlan ( अभी the स्थान of मैक्सिको नगर ) , situated on an द्वीप in झील texcoco  , who referred to themselves as Mexica Tenochca or Cōlhuah Mexica .
Sometimes the term also includes the inhabitants of  tenochtitlan 's दो प्रिंसिपल अलाइड city-states , the acolhuas of texcoco और the tepanecs of tlacopan , जो साथ  with the Mexica formed the Aztec Triple Alliance which controlled what is often known as `` the Aztec Empire '' .
In other contexts , Aztec may refer to all the various city states and their peoples , who shared  विशाल भाग of उनके जातीय इतिहास और सांस्कृतिक traits साथ the mexica , acolhua और  Tepanecs , and who often also used the Nahuatl language as a lingua franca .
In this meaning it is possible to talk about an Aztec civilization  सहित सब the particular सांस्कृतिक पैटर्न आम लिये सबसे of the peoples inhabiting सेंट्रल  Mexico in the late postclassic period .
From the 13th century , the Valley of Mexico was  the दिल of एज़टेक सभ्यता : यहाँ the पूंजी of the  Aztec Triple Alliance , the city of Tenochtitlan , was built upon raised islets in Lake Texcoco .
The Triple Alliance formed a tributary empire expanding its  राजनैतिक आधिपत्य दूर परे the घाटी of मैक्सिको , conquering अन्य नगर राज्य throughout  Mesoamerica .
at इसके शिखर , एज़टेक संस्कृति था समृद्ध और जटिल पौराणिक और धार्मिक परंपराओं , as खूब as reaching  remarkable architectural and artistic accomplishments .
In 1521 Hernán Cortés , along with a large number of Nahuatl speaking  स्वदेशी allies , conquered tenochtitlan और पराजित the एज़टेक ट्रिपल गठबंधन अंतर्गत the नेतृत्व  of Hueyi Tlatoani Moctezuma II .
Subsequently the Spanish founded the new settlement  of मैक्सिको नगर on the साईट of the ruined एज़टेक पूंजी , इससे जहाँ वे  proceeded with the process of colonizing Central America .
Aztec culture and history is primarily known through archaeological evidence found in excavations such as that of the renowned Templo Mayor in Mexico City ; from indigenous bark paper codices ; from eyewitness accounts by Spanish conquistadors such  as hernán cortés और बर्नल díaz डेल कैस्टिलो ; और विशेषकर इससे 16th और 17th सदी descriptions of एज़टेक संस्कृति और इतिहास लिखा by स्पेनी clergymen और साक्षर aztecs in the स्पेनी or नावातल भाषा  , such as the famous Florentine Codex compiled by the Franciscan monk Bernardino de Sahagún with the help of indigenous Aztec informants .
एंडरसन hays कूपर ( born जून 3 , 1967 ) is an अमरीकी  journalist , author , and television personality .
He is the primary anchor  of the सीएनएन न्यूज दिखाएँ एंडरसन कूपर 360°  .
The program is  सामान्यतः ब्रॉडकास्ट सजीव इससे a नई यॉर्क नगर स्टुडियो ; however , कूपर प्रायः प्रसारण  live on location for breaking news stories .
As of September 2011 ,  he भी serves as मेजबान of उसके अपना eponymous syndicated दिन बात दिखाएँ  , Anderson Live , which will be cancelled at the end of the second season .
A plot of a normal  वितरण ( or bell-shaped वक्र ) जहाँ प्रत्येक बैंड  has a width of 1 standard deviation – See also : 68-95-99.7 rule
संचयी संभाव्यता of a सामान्य  distribution with expected value 0 and standard deviation 1 .
In statistics and probability theory , standard deviation (  represented by the प्रतीक सिग्मा , σ ) shows कैसा much विभिन्नता or dispersion exists इससे the  average ( mean ) , or expected value .
A low standard deviation indicates that the data points tend to be very close to the mean ; high  मानक विचलन indicates कि the आंकड़ा अंक  are spread out over a large range of values .
The standard deviation of a random variable ,  सांख्यिकीय जनसांख्यिकी , आंकड़ा नियत , or संभाव्यता वितरण is the वर्गाकार रूट of  its variance .
It is algebraically  simpler हालांकि practically  less robust than the average absolute deviation .
A useful property of standard deviation  is कि , नापसंद variance , it is expressed in the वही इकाई  as the data .
Note , however , that for measurements with percentage as unit  , the मानक विचलन होगा have प्रतिशत  points as unit .
In addition to expressing the  variability of a जनसांख्यिकी , मानक विचलन is commonly प्रयुक्त  to measure confidence in statistical conclusions .
For example , the margin of error in polling data is determined by  calculating the अपेक्षित मानक विचलन in the परिणाम if the वही पोल यहूद to be conducted अनेक  times .
The reported margin of error is typically about  twice the मानक विचलन ­– the दायरा of a 95 प्रतिशत विश्वास  interval .
In science , researchers commonly report the standard deviation of  प्रायोगिक आंकड़ा , और तभी प्रभाव कि पतन दूर बाहर the दायरा of मानक विचलन हैं माना statistically  significant – normal random error or variation in the measurements is in this way distinguished from causal variation .
Standard deviation is also  महत्वपूर्ण in वित्त , जहाँ the मानक विचलन on the रेट of वापसी  on an investment is a measure of the volatility of the investment .
When only a sample of data from a population is available , the  मानक विचलन of the जनसांख्यिकी can be अनुमानित by a परिवर्धित मात्रा  called the `` sample standard deviation '' .
When the sample is the entire population , its unmodified standard deviation is  पुकारा the `` जनसांख्यिकी मानक विचलन  '' .
ulluco ( u : ju : kɔ : ) ( ullucus  tuberosus ) is a plant grown primarily as a root vegetable , secondarily as a leaf vegetable .
The ulluco is one of the most widely grown and economically  महत्वपूर्ण रूट फसलों in the andean प्रदेश of दक्षिण अमेरिका , दूसरी  only to the potato .
It is known there with the common name of papa lisa , but  भी by the क्षेत्रीय names melloco ( इक्वाडोर ) , olluco ( पेरू ) , chugua ( कोलंबिया ) or ruba  ( Venezuela ) , among others .
The leaf and the tuber are edible ,  समान to पालक और the आलू , क्रमशः .
They are  ज्ञात to contain ऊँची स्तर of प्रोटीन  , calcium , and carotene .
Papalisa were used by the Incas  prior to आगमन of europeans  in South America .
Ulluco  tubers हैं marketed as `` धरती  Gems '' in New Zealand , by Halfords Exotic Produce .
Ulluco  tubers in नई  Zealand
An April 24  , 1851 पोस्टर चेतावनी the `` रंगीन  people of Boston '' about policemen acting as slave catchers .
The Fugitive Slave Law or Fugitive Slave Act was passed by the United States Congress on September 18 , 1850 , as part of the Compromise of 1850  between दक्षिणी slave-holding रूचि और उत्तरी free-soilers  .
This was one of the most  विवादास्पद अधिनियमों of the 1850 सुलह और heightened उत्तरी fears of a `` स्लेव  power conspiracy '' .
it घोषित कि सब runaway स्लेव  were , upon capture , to be returned to their masters .
Abolitionists nicknamed it the ``  bloodhound विधि '' लिये the कुत्तो कि यहूद प्रयुक्त to  track down runaway slaves .
Frank Joseph Pallone ,  jr. ( born अक्तूबर 30 , 1951  ) is the U.S. Representative for , serving since 1993 .
He is a  सदस्य of the लोकतांत्रिक  Party .
He  previously represented  the 3rd district from 1988 to 1993 .
Trin-i-tee 5:7 is a gospel duo from New Orleans ,  louisiana in the संयुक्त  States .
The  समूह थी marketed as a इन्जील वैकल्पिक  to R & B girl groups such as Destiny 's Child and TLC .
Trin-i-tee 5:7 has sold  over 2.5 लाख एल्बम  .
In 1998 , the group released their first  एल्बम हकदार trin-i-tee 5:7 जिससे डेब्यू at # 1 on the शीर्ष  Gospel charts .
The album featured the songs ``  परमेश्वर 's अनुग्रह '' और the कवर सोंग  `` Oh !
मरियम do n't तुम  Weep '' .
the एल्बम बाद became  certified gold .
In 1999 ,  terri भूरा बाएँ the समूह और थी  later replaced by singer Adrian Anderson .
दौरान कि साल , the समूह अंकित और released उनके दूसरी  album , Spiritual Love .
the एल्बम became the समूह  's second # 1 album on the Top Gospel charts .
The album  contained the singles `` put अपना हैंड्स '' और `` my  Body '' .
In 2002 , the  समूह released उनके तीसरा एल्बम the चुंबन जिससे  debuted at # 2 on the Top Gospel charts .
In 2007 , the group left GospoCentric  रिकॉर्ड और हस्ताक्षरित a रिकार्ड सौदे साथ स्पिरिट उठती  Music .
In late 2007 , Trin-i-tee 5:7  released उनके पांचवां एल्बम t57 , जिससे प्रदर्शित the शीर्ष टेन इन्जील  single `` Listen '' .
T57 charted # 2 on the Top Gospel  एल्बम , # 5 on the शीर्ष ईसाई चार्ट  , and # 12 on the Top R & B charts .
The United States federal earned income tax  क्रेडिट or अर्जित आय क्रेडिट ( eitc or eic ) is a refundable कर क्रेडिट लिये low- और medium-income individuals और  couples , primarily for those who have qualifying children .
When the credit exceeds the amount of  कर owed , it परिणाम in a कर refund  to those who claim the credit .
This credit is provided to  ऑफसेट the बोझ of सोशल सुरक्षा कर  and also to promote an incentive to work .
In order for a person or couple to claim one or more persons as  उनके qualifying चाइल्ड ( ren ) , the आयु , संबंध , और साझा रेसिडेंसी आवश्यकताएँ जरूर be मिले  , as well as some other requirements .
U.S. tax forms 1040EZ , 1040A , or 1040 can be used  to अर्जी eic बगैर qualifying children  .
To claim the credit with qualifying children , 1040A or 1040  जरूर be प्रयुक्त , as खूब as attaching अनुसूची  EIC .
EIC phases in slowly ,  रै a medium-length पठार , और तब phases आउट अधिक धीरे than  it phased in .
Since the credit phases out at 21 % ( for two children and for three or more qualilfying children ) or 16 % ( for one qualifying child ) , it  is सदा अस्तबलों to have एक अधिक डालर of वास्तविक सैलरी or मजदूरी ( हालांकि technically , चूंकि the eic तालिका चालें by पचास डालर increments , it 's सदा अस्तबलों  to have an extra fifty-dollar increment of salary or wages ) .
For tax year 2011 , the maximum EIC  लिये a सिंगल व्यक्ति or युगल दाखिल बगैर qualifying  children was $ 464 .
The maximum EIC with one qualifying child was $ 3,094 , with two children was $  5,112 , और साथ तीन or अधिक qualifying children थी $ 5,751  .
These amounts are  indexed annually लिये  inflation .
The earned income tax credit has been part of political debates in the United States  regarding whether उठाने the न्यूनतम मजदूरी or increasing eic होगा बेहतर पता  a seeming shortage of good-paying jobs .
The following is a list of halftime shows held at  the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग 's चैंपियनशिप खेल , the सुपर  Bowl .
While halftime shows are a tradition during football games at all levels of  प्रतियोगिता , the सुपर कटोरी मध्यांतर दिखाएँ represents a आधारभूत कड़ी to पॉप संस्कृति , जिससे helps broaden  the television audience and nationwide interest .
In most years since the mid-1980s , the halftime  दिखाएँ of the सुपर कटोरी रै प्रदर्शित लोकप्रिय रिकॉर्डिंग कलाकारों और अन्य well-known हस्तियाँ  .
It  रै measurably increased टेलीविज़न दर्शक दौरान  and after the halftime show .
The performance is regarded one of the most-watched events in  अमरीकी टेलीविज़न annually साथ  over 100 million viewers in the United States alone .
Musical genres over  the सालो have represented a व्यापक दायरा of म्यूज़िक प्रकार , सहित पॉप ,  rock , classic rock , country , hip hop , rap , blues , and soul .
In some years , short skits or  नाटक दृश्यों हैं acted आउट  on a stage .
the प्रदर्शन समूह up साथ लोगों रै performed at the सबसे सुपर  Bowl halftime shows , starring in four during the 1970s and 1980s .
According to Nielsen ratings , Super Bowl XLVI halftime show  headlined by मैडोना in 2012 remains the most-watched मध्यांतर दिखाएँ in इतिहास , साथ 114 लाख  viewers or about 3 million more than the actual game .
Beyonce 's 2013  मध्यांतर दिखाएँ प्रदर्शन  was the second most viewed show in history .
It is listed on the Guinness World Records as the largest TV  दर्शक लिये a सुपर कटोरी half-time प्रदर्शन  .
International  मेन 's दिन ( imd ) is an सालाना अंतरराष्ट्रीय  event celebrated on 19th November .
Inaugurated in 1999 in Trinidad and Tobago , the day and its events find support from a  किस्में of individuals और समूह in ऑस्ट्रेलिया , the caribbean , उत्तर अमेरिका , एशिया , यूरोपीय और अफ़्रीकी  .
Speaking on behalf of UNESCO , Director of  महिलाओं और संस्कृति of सलाम ingeborg breines कहा of imd , `` इस is an बेहतरीन विचार और होता  give some gender balance . ''
She added that  युनेस्को थी looking आगे to cooperating  with the organizers .
The objectives of celebrating an International Men 's Day include focusing on men 's and  लड़कों ' स्वास्थ्य , improving लिंग संबंध , promoting लिंग समता , और highlighting  positive male role models .
It is an  अवसर to हाइलाइट पक्षपात विरूद्ध मेन और लड़कों और to celebrate  their achievements and contributions , in particular for their contributions to community , family , marriage , and child care .
The broader and ultimate aim of the  इवेंट is to प्रचार मौलिक humanitarian  values .
International Men 's Day is celebrated in over 60 countries , including Trinidad and Tobago , Jamaica , Australia , India , China , United States , Romania , Singapore , Malta , United Kingdom ,  दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी , तंजानिया , ज़िम्बाब्वे , बोत्सवाना , australia , बुरुंडी , हंगेरियाई , आयरलैंड , आइल of man , घाना , कनाडा , डेनमार्क , नार्वे , ऑस्ट्रिया , बोस्निया और हर्ज़ेगोविना , युक्त , फ़्रांस , इटली , पाकिस्तानी , क्यूबा , अण्टीगुआ और बारबूडा  , St. Kitts and Nevis , St. Lucia , Grenada and Cayman Islands , on 19 November , and global support for the celebration is broad .
Valley  गाँव parkvalley
Village is a district in the San Fernando Valley  प्रदेश of लॉस एंजिल्स , कैलिफ़ोर्निया  .
The median age of its population , at  36 , is `` बूढ़ा लिये the नगर of लॉस एंजिल्स  . '' and its average household size of two people is low , compared to other parts of the city .
developmental मनोविज्ञान is  the scientific study of changes that occur in human beings over the course of their life span .
Originally  चिंतित साथ infants और children ,  the field has expanded to include adolescence , adult development , aging , and the entire life span .
This field examines change across a broad range of topics including motor skills and other psycho-physiological processes ; cognitive development involving areas such as problem solving , moral understanding , and  conceptual समझना ; भाषा अधिग्रहण ; सोशल , व्यक्तित्व , और emotional विकास ; और self-concept और पहचान  formation .
Developmental psychology includes issues such as the extent to  जिससे विकास occurs through the क्रमिक accumulation of ज्ञान बनाम stage-like विकास , or the extent to जिससे children हैं born साथ स्वाभाविक  mental structures versus learning through experience .
Many researchers are interested  in the बातचीत between निजी विशेषताएँ , the व्यक्तिगत 's बर्ताव , और पर्यावरणीय कारकों सहित सोशल कॉन्टेक्स्ट ,  and their impact on development ; others take a more narrowly-focused approach .
Developmental  मनोविज्ञान informs अनेक लागू फ़ील्ड , सहित : शैक्षणिक  psychology , child psychopathology , and forensic developmental psychology .
Developmental psychology complements several other basic  शोध फ़ील्ड in मनोविज्ञान सहित सोशल  psychology , cognitive psychology , ecological psychology , and comparative psychology .
Joseph Michael `` Joey '' Stivic is a fictional  अक्षर जो पहला appeared on the 1970s अमरीकी  sitcom All in the Family .
Joey Stivic was the son and only child of  माइक stivic ( निभाई by रोब reiner ) और ग्लोरिया stivic ( निभाई by सैली struthers ) ,  and the grandson of Archie Bunker ( Carroll O'Connor ) and Edith Bunker ( Jean Stapleton ) .
The  अक्षर पहला appeared as a नवजात baby  in a two-part episode of All in the Family which aired in December 1975 .
After many appearances on All in the Family until Reiner and Struthers left the series in 1978 ( by that time , Joey had been played most often by alternating twins Jason and Justin Draeger ) , the Joey  stivic अक्षर अगला appeared on the सब in the परिवार spin-off श्रेणी ( कुछ कॉल it a continuation of the असली ) आर्ची बंकर 's प्लेस in a अतिथि रूप in the नवम्बर 1979 एपीसोड `` थैंक्सगिविंग पुनर्मिलन  . ''
In this instance ,  the अक्षर थी निभाई by चाइल्ड कर्ता  Dick Billingsley and was appropriately pre-school age .
साथ ग्लोरिया अभी अलग इससे माइक , वो लौटे to आर्ची  Bunker 's Place with Joey in the February 1982 episode `` Gloria Comes Home . ''
In this episode , Joey  थी निभाई by क्रिस्टोफर johnston  .
जॉय stivic थी a नियमित अक्षर on  the All in the Family spin-off series Gloria in 1982 and 1983 .
On this series , in which the  now-divorced ग्लोरिया बंकर अक्षर था स्थानांतरित to upstate नई यॉर्क in अनुक्रम to कार्य as an  assistant veterinarian , the part of Joey Stivic was played by ten-year-old actor Christian Jacobs .
After Gloria was canceled in 1983 , Joey Stivic  disappeared इससे प्रधान समय टेलीविज़न लिये 11 सालो , जबतक the अक्षर बना एक पिछला रूप on 704 hauser , a short-lived 1994 श्रेणी परिचय a  black family who had moved into the old Bunker home , years after Bunker had sold it .
In this appearance , the Joey Stivic character was played by Casey Siemaszko , an  कर्ता born in 1961 ( 14 सालो पहले जॉय stivic 's fictional  birth ) .
in 1976 the आदर्श खिलौना कम्पनी released a 14-inch `` जॉय stivic गुड़िया  '' ( called `` Archie Bunker 's Grandson '' ) which was billed as the `` first anatomically correct male doll . ''
The doll inspired mild controversy  at the समय , और is a collectors ' मद आज  .
The 2011  रोज़ कटोरी थी the 97th संस्करण of the सालाना कटोरी  game played on January 1 , 2011 , as part of the 2010 college football season .
Played in Pasadena , California , the TCU Horned Frogs of the Mountain West Conference  पराजित the विस्कॉन्सिन badgers of the बिग टेन सम्मेलन by a स्कोर of 21 –  19 .
The Pasadena  टूर्नामेंट of गुलाब संघ थी the आयोजक  of the game .
Vizio Inc. was the corporate sponsor and  the खेल थी officially नामित `` the रोज़  Bowl Game presented by Vizio '' .
This game marked the first time  a टोली इससे a non-automatic qualifying सम्मेलन  played in , and won , the Rose Bowl in its 97 years .
the प्रतियोगिता थी ब्रॉडकास्ट on केबल टेलीविज़न स्टेशन ईएसपीएन  with a radio broadcast on ESPN Radio and XM Satellite Radio and ESPN3 streaming video over the internet .
Coverage began at 1:30 PM ( PST  ) साथ kickoff at 2:10 pm ( pst  ) .
This marked  the पहला समय कि the खेल थी नहीं ब्रॉडकास्ट nationally `` over-the-air '' ( स्थलीय टेलीविज़न  ) since the games prior to the 1952 Rose Bowl , which was the first nationally televised college football game .
The Rose Bowl  खेल , प्रसंग भवन सपनो , friendships , & यादें , थी a contractual sell-out , साथ 64,500 टिकटें  allocated to the participating teams and conferences .
Ticket prices for  सब सीटे in the रोज़ कटोरी हैं  listed at $ 145 .
The remaining tickets went to the Tournament of Roses members , sponsors , City of Pasadena  निवासियों , और the सामान्य पब्लिक .
The Rose Bowl  स्टेडियम क्षमता is सूचीबद्ध at लगभग 91,000  .
The  घोषणा of स्वतंत्रता is a बयान अपनाया by the महाद्वीपीय कॉंग्रेस on जुलाई 4 , 1776 , जिससे घोषित कि the तेरह  American colonies , then at war with Great Britain , regarded themselves as independent states , and no longer a part of the British Empire .
Instead they now  formed a नई nation—the संयुक्त  States of America .
John Adams was a leader in  pushing लिये स्वतंत्रता , जिससे  was unanimously approved on July 2 .
A committee had already drafted the  औपचारिक घोषणा , to be तैयार जब कॉंग्रेस voted  on independence .
Adams  persuaded the कमेटी to चुनें थामस जेफरसन to लिखें the असली  draft of the document , which congress would edit to produce the final version .
The Declaration was ultimately a formal explanation of why Congress had voted on  जुलाई 2 to घोषित स्वतंत्रता इससे ग्रेट ब्रिटेन , अधिक than a साल बाद the outbreak  of the American Revolutionary War .
The national birthday , the Independence Day  is मनाये on जुलाई 4 , हालांकि एडम्स  wanted July 2 .
After  ratifying the टेक्स्ट on जुलाई 4 , कॉंग्रेस  issued the Declaration of Independence in several forms .
It was initially published as the  मुद्रित डनलप broadside कि थी widely वितरित  and read to the public .
The most famous version of the Declaration , a signed copy that is popularly regarded as the  घोषणा of स्वतंत्रता , is प्रदर्शित at the नेशनल अभिलेख in वॉशिंगटन ,  D.C .
हालांकि the wording of the घोषणा थी स्वीकृत  on July 4 , the date of its signing was August 2 .
The original July 4  संयुक्त राज्य घोषणा of स्वतंत्रता  manuscript was lost while all other copies have been derived from this original document .
The sources and interpretation of the  घोषणा have महरूम the विषय of much scholarly पूछताछ  .
The Declaration  जायज the स्वतंत्रता of the संयुक्त राज्य by लिस्टिंग औपनिवेशिक grievances विरूद्ध किंग जार्ज iii , और  by asserting certain natural and legal rights , including a right of revolution .
having परोसा इसके असली purpose in announcing स्वतंत्रता , the टेक्स्ट of the घोषणा  was initially ignored after the American Revolution .
Since then , it has come to be considered a major  बयान on इंसान अधिकारों , विशेषकर इसके दूसरी  sentence:
We hold these truths to be self-evident , that all  मेन हैं निर्मित बराबर , कि वे हैं endowed by उनके निर्माता साथ निश्चित unalienable  Rights , that among these are Life , Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness .
This has been called `` one of the best-known sentences in the English language '' , containing `` the  सबसे potent और consequential शब्द in अमरीकी  history . ''
The passage came  to represent a moral मानक to जिससे  the United States should strive .
This view was notably promoted by Abraham Lincoln , who considered the Declaration to be the foundation of his political philosophy , and argued  कि the घोषणा is a बयान of सिद्धान्त through जिससे the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान चाहिए  be interpreted .
It  रै प्रेरित कार्य लिये the अधिकारों of अधिकारहीन  people throughout the world .
Chitty  chitty बंग बंग is a 1968 अंग्रेजों musical फिल्मी  loosely based on Ian Fleming 's novel .
The film 's script is by  roald dahl और केन ह्यूजेस और इसके गीतों by the  Sherman Brothers .
it सितारों लंड वैन dyke as caractacus potts और  Sally Ann Howes as Truly Scrumptious .
The  फिल्मी थी निर्देशित by केन ह्यूजेस और उत्पादित by अल्बर्ट R. ब्रोकोली ( co-producer  of the James Bond series of films , also based on Fleming 's novels ) .
John Stears  पर्यवेक्षित the खास प्रभाव  .
Irwin  kostal पर्यवेक्षित और conducted the म्यूज़िक , जबकि the musical संख्याएँ  were staged by Marc Breaux and Dee Dee Wood .
A region is  arid जब it is characterized by a कठोर कमी of उपलब्धियाँ जल , to the  extent of hindering or preventing the growth and development of plant and animal life .
Environments  विषय to arid climates tend to कमी वनस्पति  and are called xeric or desertic .
Most `` arid '' climates surround the  equator ; ये स्थान शामिल सबसे of अफ़्रीकी और भाग of दक्षिण  America and Central America .
कर्कट ( ♋ ) is an astrological चिह्न , जिससे  is associated with the constellation Cancer .
It spans the 90-120th degree of the zodiac , between 90 and 125.25 degree of celestial longitude ,  जिससे the सूर्य transits इस क्षेत्रफल on औसत between जून 22 to जुलाई 22 प्रत्येक  year .
And under the sidereal zodiac , it  is फिलहाल इससे जुलाई 21 to अगस्त  9 .
The United States presidential election of 1960 was the 44th quadrennial presidential  चुनाव , आयोजित on मंगलवार , नवम्बर  8 , 1960 .
The Republican Party nominated  लाज़िम vice-president रिचर्ड निक्सन , जबकि the लोकतांत्रिक पार्टी मनोनीत जॉन F. कैनेडी , सीनेटर  from Massachusetts .
The incumbent President ,  रिपब्लिकन ड्वाइट D. आइज़नहावर , थी नहीं योग्य लिये re-election  after serving the maximum two terms allowed by the Twenty-second Amendment .
Kennedy was  निर्वाचित साथ a सीसे of 112,827 मत , or 0.17 % of the लोकप्रिय vote , giving  him a victory of 303 to 219 in the Electoral College , the closest since 1916 .
This was the first election  in जिससे सब पचास of the वर्तमान  United States participated .
A number of factors explain  क्यों the चुनाव थी so बंद  .
Kennedy gained since there was an economic recession  जिससे ठेस the लाज़िम रिपब्लिकन , और he था the लाभ  of 17 million more registered Democrats than Republicans .
Furthermore , the new votes that Kennedy gained among  catholics लगभग neutralized the नई मत निक्सन gained among  Protestants .
Kennedy 's campaigning  कौशल decisively outmatched  Nixon 's .
In the end , Nixon 's emphasis on his experience carried little weight , and he wasted energy by campaigning  in सब 50 राज्य बजाय of concentrating on the झूले  states .
Kennedy  प्रयुक्त उसके विशाल , well-funded अभियान संगठन to जीत the नामांकन , सुरक्षित समर्थन , और  , with the aid of the last of the big-city bosses , to get out the vote in the big cities .
He relied on running mate Lyndon B.  जॉनसन to थाम the दक्षिण और प्रयुक्त टेलीविज़न effectively  .
This election is notable as being the first time in U.S. history that two  बैठे u.s . सीनेटरों ( कैनेडी और जॉनसन ) यहूद निर्वाचित as अध्यक्ष और vice-president  , a phenomenon that has been repeated once , by Barack Obama and Joe Biden in 2008 ( in both cases , the president was the younger , more junior senator ) .
Sherwood is a city in Washington County  , ऑरेगॉन , संयुक्त राज्य  .
Located in  the southeast कोने of the काउंटी , it is a आवासीय जातियाँ  in the Tualatin Valley southwest of Portland .
The population was 11,791  at the 2000 जनसांख्यिकी  .
According to the 2010 census , the  जनसांख्यिकी थी 18,205 निवासियों  .
Indirectly named for the Sherwood Forest in England  , it थी पहला incorporated in 1893 as a कस्बा  .
The USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 is an Act of the U.S. Congress that was signed into law by  अध्यक्ष जार्ज W. बुश on अक्तूबर 26  , 2001 .
The title of the act is a ten letter acronym ( USA PATRIOT ) that stands for Uniting (  और ) strengthening अमेरिका ( by ) providing उचित टूल्स जरूरी  ( to ) Intercept ( and ) Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 .
The act , as a response to the terrorist attacks of September 11th , significantly reduced restrictions in law enforcement agencies ' gathering of intelligence within the United States ; expanded the Secretary of  the treasury’s प्राधिकार to विनियमित वित्तीय ट्रांजेक्शन , विशेषकर those involving विदेशी individuals और  entities ; and broadened the discretion of law enforcement and immigration authorities in detaining and deporting immigrants suspected of terrorism-related acts .
The act also expanded the definition of terrorism to include  घरेलू आतंक , यूँ enlarging the क्रमांक of क्रियाएँ to जिससे the यूएसए patriot act’s विस्तारित विधि  enforcement powers can be applied .
On  may 26 , 2011 , अध्यक्ष बराक ओबामा प्रयुक्त an autopen to चिह्न the patriot sunsets एक्सटेंशन अधिनियम of 2011 , a four-year एक्सटेंशन of तीन कुंजी प्रावधानों in the यूएसए patriot अधिनियम जबकि he थी in  France : roving wiretaps , searches of business records ( the `` library records provision `` ) , and conducting surveillance of `` lone wolves '' — individuals suspected of terrorist-related activities not linked to terrorist groups .
रिपब्लिकन नेताओ questioned if the उपयोग of the autopen मिले the संवैधानिक  requirements for signing a bill into law .
A house  in महारानी ऐनी स्टाइल at  223 Avenue A .
Snohomish is a city in Snohomish County ,  वॉशिंगटन , संयुक्त राज्य  .
The  जनसांख्यिकी थी 9,098 at the  2010 census .
The mayor of Snohomish is Karen Guzak ,  और the नगर मैनेजर is लैरी  Bauman .
Snohomish  prides itself लिये इसके ऐतिहासिक शहर , और थी एकबार ज्ञात लिये इसके अनेक पुरातन दुकानें जब it थी  known as the `` Antique Capital of the Northwest . ''
The  ऐतिहासिक कारोबार और आवासीय बीच of the कस्बा constitutes the snohomish ऐतिहासिक ज़िला ,  which is listed on the National Register of Historic Places .
Many houses bear plaques with the year the house  थी निर्मित और the नाम of the परिवार or व्यक्तिगत जो originally  occupied it .
Once every year , the city gives tours of the historic  घरों ; एक of उन्हें , the blackman हाउस , is a year-round संग्रहालय  .
a सामान्य विमानन एयरफील्ड , घनघोर एयरफील्ड , is कम than एक मील दक्षिणपश्चिम  of Downtown Snohomish .
Dave Matthews Band ( DMB ) is an  अमरीकी चट्टान बैंड कि थी formed in charlottesville  , Virginia , United States , in 1991 .
The founding members were singer-songwriter and  guitarist डेव matthews , bassist stefan lessard , वादक /backing vocalist कार्टर  Beauford and saxophonist LeRoi Moore .
Boyd Tinsley  थी added to the बैंड  as a violinist soon after the band was formed .
Moore died suddenly  in अगस्त 2008 due to जटिलताओं इससे चोटों  sustained in an ATV accident .
GRAMMY Award  -winner जेफ़ ताबूत of béla fleck और the flecktones रै चूंकि भर  Moore 's spot as the band 's saxophonist .
Rashawn Ross and Tim  रेनॉल्ड्स have भी become full-time touring सदस्यों of the  band .
The band 's 2009 album Big Whiskey and  the groogrux किंग ( the पहला एल्बम चूंकि मूर 's मौत ) debuted at क्रमांक एक on the बिलबोर्ड  200 , earning the band their fifth consecutive number-one debut— making them the second band behind Metallica to do so .
Their most recent album , Away from the World , was  released in 2012 , और भी debuted at  number one on the Billboard chart .
As of 2010 , the Dave Matthews Band has sold over  30 लाख रिकॉर्ड विश्वव्यापी .
The band is known for their annual summer-long  टुर of the संयुक्त राज्य और यूरोपीय , featuring lengthy  improvisational renditions of their songs , accompanied by an elaborate video and lighting show .
This portion of the  दौरे रै become a स्टैम्प of dmb और रै grown साथ the बैंड चूंकि fenton विलियम्स began working  with them in the early 1990s .
बाद बीस लगातार सालो of touring the बैंड  announced that it would take the summer of 2011 off .
Dave Matthews  बैंड रै जीती एक ग्रैमी पुरस्कार , और थी awarded  the NAACP Chairman 's Award .
According to Julian Bond , `` they sell out the largest arenas on  धरती , लकिन अक्सर दे  their music away . ''
अनुभवातीत जंगली जई : a अध्याय इससे an अलिखित रोमांस is a गद्य व्यंग्य लिखा by louisa  May Alcott , about her family 's involvement with the Transcendentalist community Fruitlands in the early 1840s .
the कार्य थी पहला प्रकाशित in a नई  York newspaper in 1873 , and reprinted in 1874 , 1876 , and 1915 and after .
In  उसके खाता , alcott provides the रियल लोगों शामिल  with thin pseudonymous disguises .
Her father Amos Bronson Alcott is `` Abel Lamb , '' while his partner and community co-founder Charles Lane is ``  timon शेर ; '' अबीगैल may alcott , louisa 's माँ और bronson  's wife , is `` Sister Hope . ''
Alcott depicts  उसके पिता as वर्चस्व by उसके अधिक forceful संगी  , and both men as feckless and impractical dreamers .
The men of the community spend  उनके समय in pointless debates जबकि सिस्टर आशा works इससे भोर to संध्या to maintain उनके  existence .
A crisis arises at harvest time , when the  अनाज क्रॉप is threatened by an approaching  storm .
In Alcott  's शब्द , `` परिचय the समय the अनाज थी तैयार to हाउस , कुछ कॉल of the  Oversoul wafted all the men away . ''
सिस्टर आशा organizes the तभी उपलब्धियाँ सहायता , तीन  little girls and a boy , and manages to save the crop .
The little community collapses as soon as the weather turns cold , when it becomes clear that their provisions are  too meager to पिछला the coming  winter .
Timon Lion and his son  abscond to जुड़ें the shakers — हालांकि timon is अप्रसन्न  to learn that life among them is `` all work and no play . ''
Abel is crushed by the failure of the enterprise ; after days of despair he  begins to खा again तभी जब he realizes कि  his family needs him .
Sister Hope  पाता a रास्ता लिये उन्हें to subsist  and persevere .
Alcott 's view of  पुरूष arrogance और मादा शोषण in इस टुकड़ा is paralleled in  her novel , published in the same year as `` Transcendental Wild Oats . ''
`` अनुभवातीत जंगली  Oats '' has been reprinted in several modern editions .
Mount of the Holy Cross  is the northernmost 14,000-foot पहाड़ in the sawatch दायरा  , part of the Rocky Mountains in Colorado .
It  is स्तिथ in the पावन क्रॉस wilderness  near the ghost town of Holy Cross City and in Eagle County .
it थी नामित लिये the distinctive  cross-shaped snowfield on the northeast face .
अंतर्गत यूएसडीए वन सेवा प्रशासन , the पहाड़ थी  proclaimed `` Holy Cross National Monument '' by Herbert Hoover on May 11 , 1929 .
The monument was transferred to the  नेशनल पार्क सेवा in 1933  .
In 1950 , it was returned to the Forest Service and lost its National Monument status—the number of visitors to the  पहाड़ और the आसपास `` pilgrim 's हट '' था waned , और the व्यय of full-time  staff could not be justified .
This mountain has been the subject of painters , photographers and  भी a कविता by हेनरी वाड्सवर्थ लांगफेलो  , ( The Cross of Snow ) .
The first  सरेआम उपलब्धियाँ फोटोग्राफ थी प्रकाशित in नेशनल  Geographic magazine .
Thomas Moran depicted the mountain in an oil painting , which now is part of the  संग्रहण of the संग्रहालय of the अमरीकी वेस्ट , भाग of the autry नेशनल बीच in लॉस एंजिल्स  , California .
It is still much photographed but it is not as well known today as  it थी in the पास्ट  .
Nearby features include  कटोरी of आंसू झील , सीधे अंतर्गत the ईस्ट फेस of the शिखर , tuhare झीलों  , in a cirque that lies south of a significant subpeak , and several other lakes .
Notable  स्थितियाँ भीतर शामिल the dotsero  volcano ( near Interstate 70 ) , Vail and Aspen .
us 24 रनों निकट the शिखर  through Gilman .
Photochrom print  of माउंट of the पावन क्रॉस c.  1900 .
This image is a reversed view  of the पहाड़ compared  to how it actually appears .
the पहला अंकित ascent of पावन क्रॉस थी in 1873 , by F. V. hayden और  photographer W. H. Jackson during one of Hayden 's geographical surveys .
However , the peak may well  have महरूम ascended previously  by miners or American Indians .
The first winter  ascent of the शिखर थी बना in 1943 by russel keene और हावर्ड freedman  of the 10th Mountain Division , then stationed at Camp Hale .
Holy Cross can be climbed by at  तनिक चार अलग रूट , साथ the easiest और सबसे आम रूट  being the North Ridge , which involves of vertical gain over and is rated YDS Class 2 for moderate scrambling .
The Cross  couloir रूट फ़ॉर्म the लंबवत portion of the प्रसिद्ध क्रॉस विशेषता  , and provides an advanced snow climb or extreme ski descent .
Mount of  the पावन क्रॉस रै a इतिहास of  endangering the lives of many hikers .
Primarily , the hikers who require rescue are  unfamiliar साथ the risks of प्रवेश wilderness क्षेत्रों और do नहीं लाओ पर्याप्त  equipment and supplies to respond to emergency conditions .
Although the summit on Mount of the Holy Cross is frequently reached on a long day  hike , unprepared hikers हैं अक्सर stranded or खोया due to बदलना पर्यावरणीय शर्तें और भ्रम regarding the surrounding लैंडस्केप , विशेषकर on the descent  of North Ridge .
Thorough  शोध और उचित नियोजन चाहिए  prevent most tragedies .
Mount of the Holy cross  is accessible इससे tigiwon सड़क ,  south of Minturn , Colorado .
The Half Moon Pass Trail is the standard route to  the समिट of माउंट of the पावन क्रॉस via the उत्तर लकीरें  .
Following  the पतन क्रीक ट्रेल to an ascent of पायदान पहाड़ ट्रेल provides the  best view of the Holy Cross snow feature from Notch Mountain Ridge .
The GSM logo is used to  पहचानो संगत handsets और उपकरण
GSM ( Global System for Mobile Communications , originally ' ) , is a standard set developed by the European  दूरसंचार मानकों संस्थान ( etsi ) to describe प्रोटोकॉल लिये दूसरी पीढी ( 2g ) डिजिटल  cellular networks used by mobile phones .
It became the de facto  वैश्विक मानक लिये मोबाईल संचार  with over 80 % market share .
The GSM standard was  विकसित as a बदलना लिये पहला पीढी ( 1g ) एनालॉग सेल्यूलर संजाल , और originally  described a digital , circuit switched network optimized for full duplex voice telephony .
This was expanded over time to include data communications , first by circuit switched transport , then packet data transport via GPRS  ( सामान्य पैकेट रेडियो सेवाएं ) और किनारे ( उन्नत आंकड़ा दरों लिये जीएसएम एवोल्यूशन or egprs )  .
Further improvements  यहूद बना जब the 3gpp विकसित तीसरा पीढी  ( 3G ) UMTS standards followed by fourth generation ( 4G ) LTE Advanced standards .
`` GSM  '' is a ट्रेडमार्क स्वामित्व  by the GSM Association .
President Franklin  D. रूज़वेल्ट लक्षण the lend-lease विधेयक to दे सहायता  to Britain and China ( 1941 )
The Lend Lease act  थी an अधिनियम जहाँ the संयुक्त  States had supported its allies .
Lend-Lease ( ) was the law that started a  कार्यक्रम अंतर्गत जिससे the संयुक्त राज्य of अमेरिका supplied the संयुक्त किंगडम , the ussr , गणतंत्र of चीन , फ़्री  France , and other Allied nations with materiel between 1941 and 1945 .
It was signed into law on March 11  , 1941 , a साल और a हाफ बाद the outbreak  of World War II in Europe in September 1939 .
इस थी नौ महीने पहले the u.S. डाला  the war in December 1941 .
Formally  titled an अधिनियम to further प्रचार the रक्षा of the संयुक्त राज्य , the अधिनियम effectively  ended the United States ' pretense of neutrality .
A total of $ 50 .1 billion ( equivalent to $ today ) worth  of आपूर्तियाँ यहूद shipped : $ 31.4 अरब to ब्रिटेन , $ 11.3 अरब to the सोवियत संघ , $ 3.2 अरब to फ़्रांस  , $ 1.6 billion to China , and smaller sums to other Allies .
Reverse Lend-Lease comprised services such as rent on air bases that went to the  u.S. , और totaled $ 7.8 अरब ; of इस , $ 6.8 अरब  came from the British and the Commonwealth .
the शर्तें of the अनुबंध provided कि  the materiel was to be used until time for their return or destruction .
आपूर्तियाँ बाद the termination तिथि यहूद बेची to ब्रिटेन at  a large discount for £1 .075 billion using long-term loans from the United States .
Canada operated  a समान कार्यक्रम कि भेजा $ 4.7 अरब  in supplies to the United Kingdom and the Soviet Union .
The United States did  नहीं चार्ज लिये सहायता supplied अंतर्गत इस  legislation .
This program  थी a निर्णायक कदम दूर इससे non-interventionist नीति , जिससे था वर्चस्व संयुक्त राज्य विदेशी संबंध  since the end of World War I , towards international involvement .
The Jerusalem artichoke ( Helianthus  tuberosus ) , भी पुकारा sunroot , sunchoke , धरती ठहराना or topinambour , is a प्रजाति of  sunflower native to eastern North America , and found from eastern Canada and Maine west to North Dakota , and south to northern Florida and Texas .
It is also cultivated widely across  the शीतोष्ण मण्डल लिये इसके  tuber , which is used as a root vegetable .
Castillo San Felipe del Morro also known as  फोर्ट सैन फेलिप डेल morro or morro किला , is a 16th-century  citadel located in San Juan , Puerto Rico .
Stonehenge is a prehistoric monument in  विल्टशायर , इंग्लैण्ड , परिचय वेस्ट of amesbury और  north of Salisbury .
One of the  सबसे प्रसिद्ध साइट in the संसार , stonehenge is  the remains of a ring of standing stones set within earthworks .
It is in the middle of the  सबसे घना जटिल of पाषाणकालीन और कांस्य आयु स्मारक  in England , including several hundred burial mounds .
Archaeologists believe it  थी निर्मित anywhere इससे 3000 bc to  2000 BC .
Radiocarbon dating in  2008 सुझाया कि the पहला पत्थरों यहूद उठाया between 2400 और 2200 bc , whilst another सिद्धान्त suggests  that bluestones may have been raised at the site as early as 3000 BC .
The  surrounding गोलाकार धरती बैंको और खाई , जिससे constitute the earliest phase of the  monument , have been dated to about 3100 BC .
The site and its surroundings were added to the UNESCO 's  सूची of संसार विरासत साइट in 1986 in  a co-listing with Avebury Henge .
It is a  नेशनल legally सुरक्षित  Scheduled Ancient Monument .
Stonehenge is owned by the Crown and  प्रबंधित by अंग्रेज़ी विरासत , जबकि the surrounding जमीन is स्वामित्व  by the National Trust .
पुरातत्व प्रमाण मिला by the stonehenge riverside प्रोजेक्ट in 2008 indicates कि stonehenge  could have been a burial ground from its earliest beginnings .
The dating of cremated remains found on the site indicate that deposits contain  इंसान अस्थि इससे as जल्दी as 3000 bc , जब the खाई और बैंको यहूद पहला खोदा  .
Such  जमा जारी at stonehenge लिये at तनिक  another 500 years .
The  साईट is a प्लेस of धार्मिक significance  and pilgrimage in Neo-Druidry .
The NCAA Women 's Division I  चैंपियनशिप is an सालाना कॉलेज बास्केट  tournament for women .
Held each April , the Women  's चैंपियनशिप थी उदघाटन in  the 1981–82 season .
The NCAA tournament was preceded by the  aiaw महिलाओं 's बास्केट टूर्नामेंट , जिससे थी आयोजित annually  from 1972 to 1982 .
Basketball was one of twelve women 's sports added to the NCAA championship  कार्यक्रम लिये the 1981-82 स्कूल साल , as the ncaa सगाई in बैटल साथ the संघ लिये intercollegiate  Athletics for Women for sole governance of women 's collegiate sports .
The AIAW continued to conduct its established championship program in the same  बारह ( और अन्य ) खेल ; however , बाद a साल of डुअल महिलाओं 's championships  , the NCAA prevailed , while the AIAW disbanded .
Attendance and interest in the Women 's Division I Championship have grown  over the सालो , विशेषकर चूंकि 2003 , जब the फाइनल चैंपियनशिप खेल थी स्थानांतरित to  the Tuesday following the Monday men 's championship game .
The women 's championship game  is अभी the फाइनल overall खेल of the कॉलेज बास्केट  season .
Before that , the Women 's  फाइनल चार थी प्रायः निभाई on the शुक्रवार पहले the मेन 's फाइनल चार  or the hours before the men played on the final Saturday of the tournament .
the फाइनल थी प्रायः निभाई the संडे दोपहर  following the Men 's Final Four .
The  टूर्नामेंट कोष्ठक is बना up of champions इससे  each Division I conference , which receive automatic bids .
The  बाकी स्लॉट हैं at-large बोलियों , साथ टीमों चुनी by  an NCAA selection committee .
The selection process and  टूर्नामेंट seedings हैं आधारित on अनेक कारकों , सहित टोली rankings ,  win-loss records and Ratings Percentage Index ( RPI ) data .
नापसंद the मेन 's टूर्नामेंट , वहीँ हैं तभी 32 at-large बोलियों (  as of the next tournament in 2014 ) , and no play-in game .
The women 's tournament , like the men 's , is  मंचन in a सिंगल विलोपन स्वरूप , और is भाग of the मीडिया और पब्लिक  frenzy known colloquially as March Madness or The Big Dance .
All 63 games have  महरूम ब्रॉडकास्ट on टेलीविज़न चूंकि  2003 on ESPN and ESPN2 .
Similar to the pre-2011 men 's tournament coverage on CBS , local teams are shown  on प्रत्येक चैनल जब उपलब्धियाँ , साथ `` whip-around '' कवरेज designed to शोकेस the सबसे प्रतिस्पर्धी  contests in the rest of the country .
The  rosetta स्टोन in the अंग्रेजों  Museum
The Rosetta Stone is an ancient Egyptian granodiorite stele  inscribed साथ a डिक्री जारी at मेम्फिस in 196 bc on निमित्त  of King Ptolemy V .
The decree appears in three scripts : the upper text is  प्राचीन मिश्र चित्रलिपि , the मध्य portion demotic  script , and the lowest Ancient Greek .
Because it presents  essentially the वही टेक्स्ट in सब तीन स्क्रिप्ट ( साथ कुछ नाबालिग मतभेद between उन्हें ) , it provided the कुंजी  to the modern understanding of Egyptian hieroglyphs .
Originally displayed within a temple , the stone was probably moved during the early Christian or medieval period and eventually used as  भवन सामग्री in the निर्माण of फोर्ट जुलिएन निकट the कस्बा of रशीद ( rosetta ) in the nile डेल्टा  .
It was rediscovered there in  1799 by a सिपाही , pierre-françois bouchard , of the  French expedition to Egypt .
As the first Ancient Egyptian bilingual text recovered in modern  टाइम्स , the rosetta स्टोन aroused फैली पब्लिक ब्याज साथ इसके संभावित to decipher इस hitherto untranslated प्राचीन  language .
Lithographic copies and  प्लास्टर casts began circulating  among European museums and scholars .
Meanwhile , British  सैनिकों पराजित the फ्रेंच in मिश्र in 1801 , और the असली स्टोन आए into  British possession under the Capitulation of Alexandria .
Transported to  लंदन , it रै महरूम on पब्लिक प्रदर्शक at the अंग्रेजों  Museum since 1802 .
It is the  most-visited ऑब्जेक्ट  in the British Museum .
Ever since its rediscovery , the stone has been the focus of nationalist rivalries , including its transfer from French to British possession during the Napoleonic Wars , a  long-running विवाद over the सापेक्ष मान of यंग 's और champollion 's योगदान to the decipherment , और चूंकि 2003 , मांगे लिये the स्टोन 's वापसी to  Egypt .
Study of the decree was  already अंतर्गत रास्ता as the पहला पूरा अनुवाद of the यूनानी  text appeared in 1803 .
It was 20 years , however , before the transliteration of the  मिश्र स्क्रिप्ट थी घोषित by jean-françois champollion in पेरिस in 1822 ; it  took longer still before scholars were able to read Ancient Egyptian inscriptions and literature confidently .
Major advances in the decoding were : recognition that the stone offered three versions of the same text ( 1799 ) ; that the demotic text used phonetic characters to spell foreign names ( 1802 ) ; that the hieroglyphic text did so as well , and had pervasive similarities to the demotic ( Thomas Young , 1814 ) ; and that , in  जोड to होने प्रयुक्त लिये विदेशी names , ध्वन्यात्मक वर्ण यहूद भी  used to spell native Egyptian words ( Champollion , 1822–1824 ) .
Two other fragmentary copies of  the वही डिक्री यहूद खोजा बाद , और अनेक समान मिश्र दुभाषिया or trilingual inscriptions हैं अभी ज्ञात , सहित दो थोड़ा पहले ptolemaic डिक्री  ( the Decree of Canopus in 238 BC , and the Memphis decree of Ptolemy IV , ca . 218 BC ) .
The Rosetta Stone  is इसलिए no longer अद्वितीय , लकिन it थी the अनिवार्य  key to modern understanding of Ancient Egyptian literature and civilization .
The term  rosetta स्टोन is अभी प्रयुक्त in अन्य contexts  as the name for the essential clue to a new field of knowledge .
Poison dart frog ( also dart-poison frog , poison frog or formerly poison arrow frog ) is the common name of a group of frogs in the  परिवार dendrobatidae जिससे हैं देशी to सेंट्रल और दक्षिण अमेरिका  .
These species are diurnal and  प्रायः have brightly रंगीन लाशें  .
Although  सब जंगली dendrobatids हैं at तनिक somewhat विषाक्त , स्तर of toxicity vary considerably  from one species to the next and from one population to another .
Many species  हैं threatened  .
These amphibians  हैं प्रायः पुकारा `` डार्ट मेंढक '' due to the  Amerindians ' indigenous use of their to poison the tips of blowdarts .
However , of over 175 species , only four have been documented as being used for this purpose ( curare plants are more commonly used ) , all of  जिससे आइये इससे the phyllobates genus , जिससे is characterized by the अपेक्षाकृत विशाल आकार और ऊँची स्तर  of toxicity of its members .
cajeta is a मैक्सिकन confection  of thickened syrup usually made of sweetened caramelised milk .
According to chef Rick Bayless , the name for  cajeta आए इससे the स्पेनी phrase al punto de cajeta , जिससे अर्थात् `` a द्रव thickened to the पाइंट at जिससे  a spoon drawn through the liquid reveals the bottom of the pot in which it is being cooked '' .
Another hypothesis is that it takes its name  इससे the छोटी लकड़ी बाक्स in जिससे it थी  traditionally packed .
मैक्सिकन cajeta is माना a specialty of the नगर of celaya in the राज्य of guanajuato , हालांकि  it is also produced with the traditional method in several towns of the state of Jalisco , such as Mazamitla , Sayula , and Atotonilco el Alto .
Cajeta is made by simmering goat 's milk , or occasionally a sweetened  द्रव , stirring अक्सर , जबतक it becomes बहुत viscous due to वाष्पीकरण  of water , and caramelized .
While goat milk is  the सबसे usual आधार , अन्य liquids  or juices may be used .
In Celaya , and eventually the rest of  मैक्सिको , the confection of हाफ बकरी 's मिल्क और हाफ गाय 's मिल्क became ज्ञात  by the name cajeta , but elsewhere , the milk candy became known as leche quemada , dulce de leche , etc .
It has cousins in the many Indian milk-based  मिठाई जैसे प्रभा और the मिल्क फ़ज burfi , और in the ओपेरा फ़ज of the u.S. cajeta is खाया on इसके अपना as a मीठी ,  as a spread or filling for breads and pastries , such as churros , and as a topping for ice cream .
Certain  liquors हैं added to खास व्यंजनों  called cajeta envinada .
In addition , cajeta envinada especial is  समृद्ध साथ किशमिश , बादाम , pecans  or nuts .
Often it is used as a  टॉपिंग लिये crêpes , as a मीठी सॉस boiled और softened bas साथ  milk to soak the crepes , resulting in a tasty dessert .
In  मैक्सिको अनेक ब्रांड्स मेक cajeta लकिन the  most common brand is Coronado .
It is also  बहुत आम to प्लेस cajeta between obleas to  make a traditional Mexican dessert .
Prince William , Duke of Cambridge ( William Arthur Philip Louis ; born 21 June 1982 ) ,  is the elder बेटे of चार्ल्स , प्रिंस of वेल्स , और डायना , राजकुमारी of वेल्स , और third-eldest पोता of महारानी एलिज़ाबेथ  II and Prince Philip , Duke of Edinburgh .
He is second in the line of succession , behind his father , to the thrones  of सोलह स्वतंत्र sovereign राज्य ज्ञात as the राष्ट्रमंडल realms : the संयुक्त किंगडम , कनाडा , ऑस्ट्रेलिया  , New Zealand , Jamaica , Barbados , The Bahamas , Grenada , Papua New Guinea , the Solomon Islands , Tuvalu , Saint Lucia , Saint Vincent and the Grenadines , Belize , Antigua and Barbuda , and Saint Kitts and Nevis .
Prince William was educated at four schools in the  संयुक्त किंगडम और प्राप्त a उपाधि इससे  the University of St Andrews .
He  खर्च भाग of a गैप साल in चिली  , Belize , Tanzania , and Kenya where he has lived and holidayed several times .
Prince William has also taken Kiswahili  अध्ययन at विश्वविद्यालयों in कीनिया  and Tanzania .
He was commissioned as a Lieutenant in the Blues and Royals  रेजीमेंट of the household प्यादे —serving साथ उसके bhai प्रिंस हैरी —and , दो सालो बाद , अर्जित  his wings by completing pilot training at Royal Air Force College Cranwell .
In 2009 , he transferred to the Royal Air Force , was promoted  to उड़ान लेफ्टिनेंट और underwent हेलीकाप्टर उड़ती प्रशिक्षण in अनुक्रम to become a full-time पायलट साथ the ढूंढें और बचाव  Force .
In 2010 , he completed his general and special-to-type helicopter training and went on to RAF Valley on No . 22  स्क्वाड्रन performing co-pilot कर्तव्य on फलक a समुद्र किंग ढूंढें और बचाव हेलीकाप्टर  .
Prince William married his  longtime गर्लफ्रेंड , कैथरीन मिडलटन  , on 29 April 2011 at Westminster Abbey .
Hours prior to his wedding , Prince William was created  ड्यूक of कैम्ब्रिज , अर्ल of strathearn  , and Baron Carrickfergus .
Mali  is a बहुभाषी  country .
The languages spoken there reflect ancient  उपनिवेश पैटर्न , migrations , और इसके long इतिहास  .
ऍथनोलॉग रिश्तो  50 languages .
Of these , French is the  आधिकारिक भाषा और bambara is the सबसे  widely spoken .
Altogether  13 of the स्वदेशी भाषाएं of माली have the  legal status of national language .
चिह्न in फ्रेंच , at  a monument in Bamako .
{ {  infobox अवकाश
Chinese  नई साल
9 – 12  फ़रवरी ( वियतनाम  )
Rogers Building , the headquarters  of रोजर्स संचार
Rogers Communications Inc. is a diversified public Canadian  संचार और मीडिया कम्पनी  .
It is particularly in the field of wireless communications , cable  टेलीविज़न , टेलीफोन , और अंतरजाल कनेक्टिविटी साथ significant अतिरिक्त दूरसंचार और  mass media assets .
the कम्पनी is headquartered in the रोजर्स  Building in Toronto , Ontario .
The company claims the heritage of the Rogers  वैक्यूम ट्यूब कम्पनी , संस्थापित in 1925 by एडवर्ड रोजर्स , जिससे प्रारंभ  the CFRB radio station in Toronto , which was later acquired by outside interests .
The present enterprise dates  to 1960 , जब रोजर्स ' बेटे , टेड रोजर्स ,  founded Rogers Radio Broadcasting Ltd .
That company acquired CHFI that year , as well as Aldred-Rogers Broadcasting , a  साझेदारी साथ जोएल aldred जिससे helped लॉन्च cfto in  1961 .
Rogers later bought out Aldred and started the current cable and  बेतार परिचालन , ज्ञात as रोजर्स cablesystems  Ltd .
The chief competitor to the company is Bell Canada , which has a  similarly extensive पोर्टफोलियो of रेडियो और टेलीविज़न मीडिया एसेट , as खूब as बेतार , टेलीविज़न वितरण , और टेलीफोन सेवाएं ,  particularly in Eastern and Central Canada ; the two companies are often seen as having a duopoly on communications services in their regions .
however , the कम्पनी भी competes nationally साथ telus लिये बेतार  services , and primarily indirectly with Shaw Communications for television service .
The company also competes with a number  of अन्य मीडिया कंपनियाँ in the प्रसारण उद्योग  .
The Internet is a global system of interconnected  कंप्यूटर संजाल कि उपयोग the मानक अंतरजाल प्रोटोकॉल  suite ( TCP/IP ) to serve billions of users worldwide .
It is a network  of संजाल कि consists of लाखो of निजी  , public , academic , business , and government networks , of local to global scope , that are linked by a broad array of electronic , wireless and optical networking technologies .
The Internet carries an extensive range of information  संसाधन और सेवाएं , ऐसे as the inter-linked हाइपरटेक्स्ट दस्तावेज़ of the संसार चौड़ी वेब (  WWW ) and the infrastructure to support email .
Most traditional communications media including telephone , music , film , and  टेलीविज़न हैं होने reshaped or redefined by the अंतरजाल , giving जनम to नई सेवाएं ऐसे as आवाज़ over अंतरजाल प्रोटोकॉल  ( VoIP ) and Internet Protocol television ( IPTV ) .
Newspaper ,  किताब और अन्य छपाई प्रकाशन हैं adapting to वेब साईट  technology , or are reshaped into blogging and web feeds .
The Internet has enabled and accelerated new forms of human interactions  through तत्काल messaging , अंतरजाल forums , और  social networking .
Online shopping  रै boomed दोनो लिये प्रमुख खुदरा आउटलेट  and small artisans and traders .
Business-to-business  और वित्तीय सेवाएं on the अंतरजाल affect सप्लाई  chains across entire industries .
The origins of the Internet reach back to research commissioned by the  संयुक्त राज्य सरकारी in the 1960s to निर्माण मजबूत , fault-tolerant संचार via कंप्यूटर संजाल  .
The funding of a new U.S. backbone by the National Science Foundation in the 1980s , as well as private funding  लिये अन्य वाणिज्यिक backbones , led to विश्वव्यापी भागीदारी in the विकास of  new networking technologies , and the merger of many networks .
The commercialization of what was by the 1990s an international network resulted in its  popularization और incorporation into वस्तुतः प्रत्येक पहलू of आधुनिक इंसान जीवन  .
, more than 2.4 billion people—over a third of the world 's human population —have used the services of the Internet ; approximately 100 times more people than were  using it in 1995 , जब it थी ज़्यादातर प्रयुक्त by tech-savvy मध्य और अपर क्लास लोगों in the संयुक्त राज्य और अनेक अन्य देशों  .
The Internet has no  centralized शासन in either technological क्रियान्वयन or नीतियों लिये अभिगम और उपयोग ; प्रत्येक constituent  network sets its own policies .
Only the overreaching definitions of the two principal name spaces in the  अंतरजाल , the अंतरजाल प्रोटोकॉल पता स्पेस और the डोमेन नाम प्रणाली , हैं निर्देशित by a maintainer संगठन , the अंतरजाल निगम  for Assigned Names and Numbers ( ICANN ) .
The technical underpinning and standardization of the core protocols ( IPv4 and  ipv6 ) is an कार्यकलाप of the अंतरजाल अभियान्त्रिकी कार्य फ़ोर्स ( ietf ) , a non-profit संगठन  of loosely affiliated international participants that anyone may associate with by contributing technical expertise .
The 2006 Winter Olympics , officially  ज्ञात as the xx ओलम्पिक शीत खेल , थी a शीत multi-sport इवेंट जिससे थी मनाये in टोरीनो , इटली इससे फ़रवरी  10 , 2006 , through February 26 , 2006 .
This marked the second time Italy hosted the Olympic  शीत खेल , the पहला होने the सात ओलम्पिक शीत खेल in  Cortina d'Ampezzo in 1956 .
Italy also hosted the Games  of the xvii ओलंपियाड in  Rome in 1960 .
Turin was selected as the host  नगर लिये the 2006 खेल  in 1999 .
The official logo displayed the name ``  टोरिनो '' , the इतालवी नाम of the नगर ; the नगर is ज्ञात as `` टोरीनो ''  in both English and the local traditional language , Piedmontese .
The Olympic  mascots of टोरिनो 2006 यहूद neve ( `` हिम  '' in Italian ) , a female snowball , and Gliz , a male ice cube .
The official motto of the XX  ओलम्पिक शीत खेल थी `` जुनून जीवनदान  here '' .
`` Help ! '' is a  सोंग by the बीटल्स कि परोसा as the शीर्षक सोंग  for both the 1965 film and its soundtrack album .
It was also released as a single , and was number one for  तीन सप्ताह in दोनो the संयुक्त राज्य और  the United Kingdom .
``  सहायता ! '' थी लिखा primarily by जॉन लेनन  , but credited to Lennon–McCartney .
During an interview  साथ प्लेबॉय in 1984 , पॉल mccartney  stated that the title was `` out of desperation '' .
पोस्टर लिये the 2005  exhibition
Siegfried Bing ( 26 February 1838 – 6 September 1905 ) , who usually gave his name as S. Bing , and was thus often referenced erroneously as `` Samuel  bing '' ( सैमुएल ओटो bing , 1850–1905 , थी उसके bhai ) थी a जर्मनी आर्ट डीलर जो जिया in पेरिस as an वयस्क , और जो helped introduce जापानी  art and artworks to the West and was a factor in the development of the Art Nouveau style during the late nineteenth century .
Comparison of male and female life expectancy at birth for countries and territories as defined  in the 2011 सीआईए factbook , साथ चयनित बुलबुले  labelled .
The dotted line corresponds  to बराबर मादा और पुरूष जीवन प्रत्याशा  .
The apparent 3D volumes of the bubbles are  linearly आंशिक to उनके जनसांख्यिकी  .
This is a list of  देशों by जीवन प्रत्याशा  at birth .
Kennewick is a city in Benton  काउंटी in the southeastern भाग of the u.S. राज्य of वॉशिंगटन  , near the Hanford nuclear site .
It is the most populous of the  तीन शहरों collectively referred to as the tri-cities ( the अन्य होने  Pasco and Richland ) .
Kennewick  is स्तिथ साथ the दक्षिणपश्चिम बैंको of the कोलंबिया नदी , विपरीत pasco और  just south of the confluence of the Columbia and Yakima rivers .
The  जनसांख्यिकी थी 73,917 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी  .
April 1 , 2012 estimates from the Washington State Office of Financial Management put  the नगर 's जनसांख्यिकी at  75,160 .
The nearest  वाणिज्यिक विमानक्षेत्र is the tri-cities विमानक्षेत्र in pasco , a क्षेत्रीय  commercial and private airport .
Forbes magazine named Kennewick the # 2 area in the  संयुक्त राज्य लिये जॉब विकास ,  while nearby Yakima was named # 1 .
The article cites the number of scientists  employed by the प्रशांत उत्तरपश्चिम नेशनल प्रयोगशाला  and area farmland for this outlook .
The  prothrombin समय ( pt ) और इसके निकला उपायों of prothrombin अनुपात ( pr ) और अंतरराष्ट्रीय सामान्यीकृत अनुपात  ( INR ) are measures of the extrinsic pathway of coagulation .
This test is  भी पुकारा `` protime inr  '' and `` PT/INR '' .
They are used to determine the clotting tendency of  रक्त , in the माप of warfarin dosage  , liver damage , and vitamin K status .
PT measures  कारकों i ( फाइब्रिनोजेन ) , ii ( prothrombin  ) , V , VII , and X .
It is used in conjunction with the activated  आंशिक thromboplastin समय ( aptt ) जिससे  measures the intrinsic pathway .
`` I 'm in the Mood for Love '' is  a लोकप्रिय सोंग  .
The music was written by Jimmy McHugh ,  the गीत by डोरोथी फ़ील्ड  .
The song  थी प्रकाशित  in 1935 .
It was introduced by  frances langford in the फिल्म प्रत्येक रात्रि  at Eight released that year .
The song was featured in the 1936 Our Gang ( Little Rascals ) short  , the पिंच सिंगर , सुंग by कार्ल `` अल्फाल्फा '' switzer  , and in the 1936 film Palm Springs .
It is  प्रायः ज्ञात to be switzer  's signature song .
James  मूडी 's saxophone सोलो on a  1952 recording of this song inspired the song `` Moody 's Mood for Love `` .
Hip hop artist Prince Paul sampled the song as  the आधार लिये the track `` मनोदशा लिये प्रेम '' on उसके एल्बम a प्रिंस among  Thieves ( 1999 ) , with Don Newkirk singing its original lyrics .
the सोंग 's शीर्षक प्रेरित the अंग्रेज़ी  title of Wong Kar Wai 's movie In the Mood for Love .
Cross-cultural psychology is the scientific study of human  बर्ताव और दिमागी प्रक्रियाओं , सहित दोनो उनके variability और invariance , अंतर्गत विविध सांस्कृतिक  conditions .
Through expanding research methodologies to recognize cultural variance  in बर्ताव , भाषा , और अर्थ it seeks to extend और develop  psychology .
Since psychology as an academic discipline was developed  largely in उत्तर अमेरिका , कुछ psychologists became चिंतित कि constructs स्वीकृत as सार्वभौमिक यहूद नहीं as निश्चर as previously assumed , विशेषकर  since many attempts to replicate notable experiments in other cultures had varying success .
Since there are questions as to whether theories dealing with central themes , such as affect , cognition , conceptions of the self , and issues such as psychopathology , anxiety , and depression , may lack external validity when `` exported ''  to अन्य सांस्कृतिक contexts , cross-cultural मनोविज्ञान re-examines उन्हें using methodologies designed to फ़ैक्टर in सांस्कृतिक मतभेद  so as to account for cultural variance .
Although some  आलोचकों have pointed to methodological खामियां in cross-cultural मनोवैज्ञानिक शोध और अर्जी कि गंभीर त्रुटियां in the सैद्धांतिक और methodological bases  used impede rather than help the scientific search for universal principles in psychology , cross-cultural psychologists are turning more to the study of how differences ( variance ) occur , rather than searching for universals in the style of physics or chemistry .
In 1972  the अंतरराष्ट्रीय संघ of cross-cultural  Psychology ( IACCP ) was established .
This branch of psychology has  जारी to विस्तार as वहीँ रै महरूम an increasing लोकप्रियता  of incorporating culture and diversity into studies .
cross-cultural मनोविज्ञान is differentiated  from Cultural psychology .
The latter is the branch of psychology that  holds कि इंसान बर्ताव is significantly बहकावे by सांस्कृतिक मतभेद , अर्थ कि मनोवैज्ञानिक  phenomena can only be compared with each other across cultures to a very limited extent .
In contrast , cross-cultural psychology  शामिल a ढूंढें लिये संभावित universals in बर्ताव  and mental processes .
Walter J. Lonner , writing for Eye on  psi ची , रै stated कि `` cross-cultural मनोविज्ञान can be विचार of as a प्रकार शोध methodology , बल्कि than an entirely पृथक  field within psychology ( 2000 ) . ''
`` Judas '' is a song by American recording artist Lady Gaga , from her  दूसरी स्टुडियो एल्बम born इस रास्ता ( 2011  ) .
It was  released by interscope रिकॉर्ड on अप्रैल 15 , 2011 , चार दिनों  ahead of its scheduled release .
Written and produced  by महिला गागा और redone , `` यहूदा '' is a नृत्य और इलेक्ट्रो हाउस  song about a woman in love with a man who betrayed her .
It embodies the incidents that have  haunted गागा in the पास्ट , और इसके कोर अर्थ refers to the ऋणात्मक भाग of  her life that she ca n't escape .
गागा रै further समझाया कि the सोंग थी भी परिचय honoring एक  's inner darkness in order to bring oneself into the light .
The artwork for the single was  designed by गागा in microsoft  Word .
In spite of a polarizing impact on several religious groups , the song was generally well received by critics , who  likened the सोंग to `` ख़राब रोमांस `` साथ कुछ noting it चाहिए have महरूम the एल्बम 's सीसे सिंगल  .
The song has a similar sound to  गागा 's पिछला redone-produced ट्रैक्स , सहित `` पोकर फेस `` , `` lovegame `` ,  `` Bad Romance '' , and `` Alejandro `` .
It contains three distinct  hooks और a हाउस -influenced  break down .
Gaga explained that the lines spoken during the breakdown talk about her as beyond redemption ,  regarding the परंपरागत दृश्य of कया a स्त्री चाहिए be  .
`` Judas '' initially had a strong  बिक्री खोलने , लकिन थी कम कामयाब commercially in तुलना  to Gaga 's previous singles .
The song reached the top ten of the charts  in सबसे प्रमुख म्यूज़िक बाज़ार , और भी पहुँचे  the top of the charts in South Korea .
A music video for the song was filmed in April 2011 ,  co-directed by गागा और laurieann गिब्सन और co-starring  Norman Reedus .
It has a Biblical  कथानक जहाँ reedus निभाई यहूदा इस्कैरियट  and Gaga played Mary Magdalene .
the वीडियो portrays उन्हें  as modern day missionaries going to Jerusalem .
It included the Biblical story of Judas betraying  यीशु , और ended साथ गागा as magdalene getting  stoned to death .
Before  इसके रिलीज , the कैथोलिक लीग condemned गागा लिये the  alleged use of religious imagery and her role in the video .
However , critics generally praised the video , not  ढूंढना कोई अप्रिय सामग्री  .
The video was  मनोनीत लिये दो पुरस्कार at the 2011  MTV Video Music Awards .
Gaga has performed `` Judas '' on a number of television shows , including The  ग्राहम नॉर्टन दिखाएँ , शनिवार रात्रि सजीव , शुभ morning americas `` गर्मियाँ कॉन्सर्ट श्रेणी '' , the  French X Factor as well as on The Ellen DeGeneres Show .
H.264/MPEG-4 Part 10 or AVC ( Advanced Video Coding ) is a standard for video compression  , और is फिलहाल एक of the सबसे commonly प्रयुक्त स्वरुप लिये the रिकॉर्डिंग ,  compression , and distribution of high definition video .
The final drafting work on the  पहला संस्करण of the मानक थी समाप्त in  May 2003 .
H.264/MPEG-4 AVC is a block-oriented motion-compensation -based codec standard developed by the  itu-t वीडियो कोडिंग विशेषज्ञ समूह ( vceg ) साथ साथ the iso/iec jtc1 चलती चित्र विशेषज्ञ समूह  ( MPEG ) .
The project partnership  प्रयत्न is ज्ञात as the संयुक्त वीडियो  Team ( JVT ) .
The ITU-T H.264 standard and the ISO/IEC MPEG-4 AVC standard ( formally ,  iso/iec 14496-10 – mpeg-4 भाग 10 , उन्नत वीडियो कोडिंग ) हैं jointly कायम so कि वे have एकसमान  technical content .
H.264 is perhaps best known as being one of the codec  मानकों लिये blu-ray discs ; सब blu-ray डिस्क खिलाड़ी जरूर be समर्थ to डिकोड  H.264 .
It is also widely used by streaming internet sources , such as videos from Vimeo , YouTube , and the iTunes Store , web software such as the Adobe Flash Player and Microsoft  silverlight , और भी विभिन्न hdtv प्रसारण over स्थलीय ( atsc , isdb-t , dvb-t or dvb-t2 ) , केबल ( dvb-c ) और उपग्रह ( dvb-s  and DVB-S2 ) .
Non-binding arbitration is a type of arbitration in which the arbitrator makes a determination of the rights of the parties to the dispute , but this  determination is नहीं बाइंडिंग upon उन्हें , और no enforceable  arbitration award is issued .
The `` award '' is in effect an advisory  राय of the arbitrator 's दृश्य of the संबंधित merits  of the parties cases .
Non-binding arbitration is used  in कनेक्शन साथ कोशिशें to पहुँचें a  negotiated settlement .
The role of an arbitrator in  non-binding मध्यस्थता is , on the सतह ,  similar to that of a mediator in a mediation .
However , the principal distinction is that whereas a mediator will try to help the parties find a middle ground to  सुलह at , the arbitrator remains totally removed इससे the उपनिवेश प्रक्रम और होगा तभी दे  a determination of liability and , if appropriate , an indication of the quantum of damages payable .
Subsequent to  a non-binding मध्यस्थता , the पार्टियों remain फ़्री to pursue उनके दावा either through  the courts , or by way of a binding arbitration , although in practice a settlement is the most common outcome .
The award and  तर्क in a non-binding मध्यस्थता is लगभग invariably inadmissible in कोई subsequent  action in the courts or in another arbitration tribunal .
Non-binding arbitration is  utilised ज़्यादातर in the संयुक्त  States and Canada .
it is largely अनजान in यूरोपीय , हालांकि in the संयुक्त किंगडम वहीँ is a अभ्यास of पार्टियों जो हैं seeking a उपनिवेश to jointly instruct a महारानी  's Counsel for an opinion on the merits and likely quantum of a claim , and then to negotiate on the basis of the views expressed in that opinion .
Augustine Volcano is a Lava Dome Complex on Augustine Island  in southwestern कुक इनलेट in the kenai प्रायद्वीप बरो of southcentral  coastal Alaska , southwest of Anchorage .
The Alaska Volcano Observatory currently rates Mount Augustine as Level of Concern Color Code Green  लिये विमानन और the ज्वालामुखी चेतावनी स्तर is at सामान्य  .
Augustine Island has a land area of , while  वेस्ट द्वीप , बस बंद अगस्टाइन 's पश्चिमी shores  , has .
The  द्वीप is बना up मुख्यतः  of past eruption deposits .
Scientists have been able to  discern कि पास्ट गुम्बद पतन रै resulted  in large avalanches .
A map  of बेलीज़  .
The country of Belize  रै roughly 386 km of तटरेखा , और  has many coral reefs , cays , and islands in the Caribbean Sea .
Most of these form the  बेलीज़ अवरोध रीफ , the longest in the  western hemisphere stemming approximately .
The reef  और इसके आइलैंड्स have महरूम a युनेस्को संसार  Heritage Site since 1996 .
The following is a list of oceanic  आइलैंड्स of बेलीज़ , arranged according to प्रदेश  but all of which are in the Caribbean Sea .
Most of the  आइलैंड्स variate in स्पेलिंग between `` cay '' और  `` caye '' , and also use the Spanish `` cayo '' .
River  आइलैंड्स have  not been listed .
Drive Letter Access ( DLA ) is a discontinued commercial packet writing application  लिये the microsoft खिड़कियाँ ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली कि allows ऑप्टिकल डिस्क आंकड़ा भंडार  devices to be used in a manner similar to floppy disks .
DLA is a packet writing technology for CD and DVD media that  उपयोग the udf संचिका प्रणाली .
DLA is not compatible with Windows Vista and  नए , हालांकि a पैच exists to फिक्स इस समस्या अंतर्गत खिड़कियाँ  Vista .
roxio बर्न थी introduced on  April 30 , 2009 .
as a बदलना लिये dla , it remedies  compatibility issues Internet Explorer 8 .
अल्फा रेक्स emmanuel humbard ( अगस्त 13 , 1919 – सितंबर 21 , 2007 ) थी a well-known अमरीकी टेलीविज़न इंजीलवादी  whose Cathedral of Tomorrow show was shown on over 600 stations at the peak of its popularity .
Limitless is a 2011 American thriller film directed by Neil  बर्गर और अभिनीत ब्राडली कूपर , abbie cornish , और रॉबर्ट de  Niro .
It is  आधारित on the 2001 अनोखा the अंधेरा फ़ील्ड  by Alan Glynn with the screenplay by Leslie Dixon .
Alaska ( ) is a state in the United States , situated in the northwest extremity of the North American continent , with  the अंतरराष्ट्रीय boundary साथ कनाडा to the ईस्ट , the आर्कटिक समंदर to the उत्तर , और the प्रशांत समंदर to the वेस्ट और दक्षिण , साथ रूस  further west across the Bering Strait .
अलास्का is the largest राज्य in the संयुक्त राज्य by क्षेत्रफल  , the 4th least populous and the least densely populated of the 50 United States .
Approximately half  of अलास्का 's 731,449 निवासियों  live within the Anchorage metropolitan area .
अलास्का 's अर्थव्यवस्था is वर्चस्व by the आयल , प्राकृतिक गैस  , and fishing industries ; it has these resources in abundance .
Alaska was purchased from Russia  on कूच 30 , 1867 , लिये $ 7.2 लाख ( $ समायोजित लिये महंगाई ) at लगभग  two cents per acre ( $ 4.74/km2 ) .
The land went through several administrative changes before becoming an organized ( or  incorporated ) territory on may 11 , 1912 , और the 49th राज्य of the u.S.  on January 3 , 1959 .
The name `` Alaska '' ( Аляска ) was already introduced in the Russian colonial period , when it was used only for  the प्रायद्वीप और is निकला इससे the aleut alaxsxaq , अर्थ `` the मेनलैंड '' or , अधिक वस्तुतः , `` the ऑब्जेक्ट towards जिससे the कार्रवाई  of the sea is directed '' .
It is also known as Alyeska , the `` great land '' ,  an aleut शब्द निकला इससे the वही रूट .
Nelson Mandela Metropolitan  विश्वविद्यालयों ( nmmu ) is a दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी tertiary शिक्षा संस्था  with its main administration in the coastal city of Port Elizabeth .
A merging of three  संस्थानों संस्थापित nmmu in जनवरी 2005 लकिन इसके इतिहास तिथियाँ वापस to 1882 साथ the  foundation of Port Elizabeth Art School .
The University draws international  विद्यार्थी इससे सब  over the world .
There are over 3000 international students and  शामिल विद्यार्थी इससे the संयुक्त राज्य , फ़्रांस , चीन , जर्मनी , बेल्जियम , डेनमार्क , फिनलैंड , नीदरलैंड्स  , Norway , Sweden , United Kingdom and many other countries .
NMMU is a comprehensive university  offering पेशेवर और वोकेशनल  training .
The University  रै छह campuses - पाँच in  Port Elizabeth and one in George .
the प्रमुख कैम्पस  is the South Campus .
Students at NMMU can study towards diplomas and degrees up to and  सहित डॉक्टरेट स्तर योग्यता  .
A number  of पाठ्यक्रम शामिल कार्यस्थल अनुभव  as part of the curriculum .
covergirl is an अमरीकी कॉस्मेटिक्स ब्रांड संस्थापित in मेरीलैंड , by the noxzema रासायनिक कम्पनी  ( later called Noxell ) and acquired by Procter & Gamble in 1989 .
The Noxell Company advertised this cosmetics line  by allowing `` कवर लड़कियों '' , फ़ैशन मॉडल जो appear on the सामने कवर of महिलाओं 's मैगज़ीन  , to wear its products .
CoverGirl makes up for lack of direct  व्यक्तिगत ग्राहक सेवा by providing a चौड़ी किस्में of कॉस्मेटिक्स  available at reasonable prices .
On the Origin  of प्रजाति , प्रकाशित on 24 नवम्बर 1859 , is a कार्य of वैज्ञानिक  literature by Charles Darwin which is considered to be the foundation of evolutionary biology .
Its full title was On the Origin of Species by Means of Natural  चयन , or the संरक्षण of favoured दौड़ in the संघर्ष लिये जीवन  .
For  the छठे संस्करण of 1872 , the छोटी शीर्षक  was changed to The Origin of Species .
Darwin 's book introduced the scientific theory  कि populations evolve over the कोर्स of पीढियां through a प्रक्रम  of natural selection .
It presented a body  of प्रमाण कि the विविधता of जीवन arose by आम descent through  a branching pattern of evolution .
Darwin included evidence that he had  gathered on the beagle expedition in the 1830s और उसके subsequent निष्कर्षों इससे शोध , पत्राचार  , and experimentation .
Various  विकासवादी विचार था already महरूम प्रस्तावित to बताइये  new findings in biology .
There was  growing support लिये ऐसे विचार among dissident anatomists और the सामान्य पब्लिक , लकिन दौरान the पहला हाफ of the 19th सदी the  English scientific establishment was closely tied to the Church of England , while science was part of natural theology .
Ideas about the transmutation of  प्रजाति यहूद विवादास्पद as वे विरोधी साथ the मान्यताओं कि प्रजाति यहूद अपरिवर्तनशील भाग of a designed पदानुक्रम  and that humans were unique , unrelated to other animals .
The  राजनैतिक और theological implications यहूद पडती debated  , but transmutation was not accepted by the scientific mainstream .
The book was  लिखा लिये non-specialist पाठक और आकर्षित फैली ब्याज  upon its publication .
As Darwin was an  प्रतिष्ठित वैज्ञानिक , उसके निष्कर्षों यहूद लिया seriously और the प्रमाण he  presented generated scientific , philosophical , and religious discussion .
The  बहस over the किताब contributed to the अभियान by t.h . हक्स्ले और  his fellow members of the X Club to secularise science by promoting scientific naturalism .
Within two decades there was widespread scientific agreement  कि एवोल्यूशन , साथ a branching पैटर्न of आम descent , था occurred , लकिन वैज्ञानिकों यहूद slow  to give natural selection the significance that Darwin thought appropriate .
During the ``  ग्रहण of डार्विनवाद `` इससे the 1880s to the 1930s , विभिन्न अन्य mechanisms  of evolution were given more credit .
With the development of the modern evolutionary synthesis in the 1930s and 1940s , Darwin 's concept of  विकासवादी अनुकूलन through प्राकृतिक चयन became सेंट्रल to आधुनिक विकासवादी सिद्धान्त , अभी  the unifying concept of the life sciences .
Charles Dillon ``  केसी '' स्टेंगल ( ; जुलाई 30 , 1890 – सितंबर 29 , 1975 ) , nicknamed  `` The Old Perfessor '' , was an American Major League Baseball outfielder and manager .
He was elected to the  बेसबॉल हॉल of  Fame in .
Stengel was born in  कान्सास नगर , मिसौरी , और originally nicknamed `` डच ''  , a common nickname at that time for Americans of German ancestry .
After his major league career began , he acquired the nickname `` Casey '' , which  originally आए इससे the आद्याक्षर of उसके गृहनगर ( `` K. C. '' ) , जिससे विकसित into `` केसी '' , बहकावे by the चौड़ी लोकप्रियता  of the poem Casey at the Bat .
in the 1950s , sportswriters उतावले उसे साथ yet another उपनाम , ``  The Old Professor '' ( or `` Perfessor '' ) , for his sharp wit and his ability to talk at length on anything baseball -related .
Although his baseball career  spanned a क्रमांक of टीमों और शहरों , he is primarily संबद्ध साथ  clubs in New York City .
Between playing  और मैनेजिंग , he is the तभी man to have worn चार of नई  York 's major league clubs ' uniforms .
He was the first of four men (  through the ऋतु ) to मैनेज दोनो the नई यॉर्क यांकीज़ और नई  York Mets ; Yogi Berra , Dallas Green , and Joe Torre are the others .
Like Torre , he also  प्रबंधित the braves और  the Dodgers .
He ended his baseball career as the beloved  मैनेजर लिये the तब विस्तार नई यॉर्क मेट्स , जिससे जीती over the  hearts of New York partly due to the unique character of their veteran leader .
June ( ) is the sixth month of the year in the  जूलियन और gregorian पंचांग और एक of the चार महीने साथ a लंबाई  of 30 days .
Ovid provides two etymologies for June 's name in his poem concerning the  महीने हकदार the fasti  .
The first is that the month is named after the Roman goddess Juno , wife of Jupiter and  समतुल्य to the यूनानी देवी hera ; the दूसरी is कि the नाम आता इससे the लैटिन शब्द iuniores , अर्थ `` younger ones , '' as opposed to maiores  ( `` elders '' ) for which the preceding month May may be named ( Fasti VI.1–88 ) .
See : Months in various  पंचांग भी पुकारा the ऋतु of the जून is the माह साथ the longest daylight घंटों of  the year in the Northern Hemisphere and the shortest daylight hours of the year in the Southern Hemisphere .
June in the Northern Hemisphere is the seasonal  समतुल्य to दिसम्बर in the दक्षिणी गोलार्ध  and vice versa .
In the  उत्तरी गोलार्ध , the शुरूआत of the meteorological  summer is 1 June .
In the  दक्षिणी गोलार्ध , the शुरूआत of the meteorological  winter is 1 June .
At the start  of जून , the सूर्य उदय in the नक्षत्र of वृष ; at the समाप्त of जून , the सूर्य उदय in the  constellation of Gemini .
However , due to the precession of the equinoxes , June begins with the sun  in the astrological चिह्न of मिथुन , और ends साथ the सूर्य in the astrological  sign of Cancer .
June is known for the large  क्रमांक of विवाह कि occur over the कोर्स  of the month .
According to one etymology ,  जून is नामित बाद juno ( hera  ) .
Juno was the goddess of marriage and a married  युगल 's household , so कुछ consider  it good luck to be married in this month .
According to another etymology  provided by the रोमन कवि ओविड , जून is नामित लिये the iuniores , लैटिन लिये `` यंग लोगों '' ( fasti vi.88 ) और कि  the month of May is named for the maiores , Latin for `` elders '' .
In Iceland ,  लोकगीत says कि if तुम bathe नग्न in the morning ओस on the morning  of June 24 , you are supposed to keep aging at bay for longer .
A  संविधान is a नियत of आधारभूत सिद्धान्त or स्थापित precedents according  to which a state or other organization is governed .
These rules together make up , i.e .  constitute , कया the एंटिटी  is .
When these principles are written down into a single document or set of legal documents , those documents may be  कहा to embody a लिखा संविधान ; if वे हैं लिखा bas in a सिंगल व्यापक दस्तावेज़  , it is said to embody a codified constitution .
Constitutions concern different levels of organizations , from sovereign states to  कंपनियाँ और unincorporated एसोसिएशन  .
A treaty which establishes an international  संगठन is भी इसके संविधान , in कि it होता define कैसा  that organization is constituted .
Within states , whether sovereign or federated , a constitution defines the  सिद्धान्त upon जिससे the राज्य is आधारित , the कार्यविधि in जिससे कानून हैं बना  and by whom .
Some constitutions , especially codified constitutions , also act as limiters of state power , by  establishing लाइनों जिससे a राज्य 's शासकों can नहीं क्रॉस , ऐसे as आधारभूत  rights .
George Washington at  संवैधानिक सम्मेलन of 1787 , हस्ताक्षर  of U.S. Constitution .
The  संविधान of इण्डिया is the longest लिखा संविधान of कोई sovereign देश in the संसार , containing 448 आलेख , 12 schedules और 100 amendments , साथ 117,369  words in its English language version , while the United States Constitution is the shortest written constitution , at 7 articles and 27 amendments .
Ron Diftler ( left ) , NASA Robonaut manager assisting in a Robonaut  familiarization प्रशिक्षण सत्र in the स्पेस पर्यावरण सिमुलेशन प्रयोगशाला at नासा 's जॉनसन स्पेस बीच  .
Engineering management  is a specialized रूप of प्रबन्धन कि is चिंतित साथ the अनुप्रयोग  of engineering principles to business practice .
Engineering management is a career that brings together the technological  problem-solving savvy of अभियान्त्रिकी और the organizational , प्रशासनिक , और नियोजन abilities  of management in order to oversee complex enterprises from conception to completion .
उदाहरण क्षेत्रों of अभियान्त्रिकी हैं उत्पाद विकास , निर्माण , निर्माण , डिज़ाइन अभियान्त्रिकी , औद्योगिक अभियान्त्रिकी , प्रौद्योगिकी  , production , or any other field that employs personnel who perform an engineering function .
कामयाब अभियान्त्रिकी प्रबंधक typically आवश्यकता प्रशिक्षण और अनुभव  in business and engineering .
Technically inept managers tend to be deprived of support by their  तकनीकी टोली , और non-commercial प्रबंधक tend to कमी वाणिज्यिक सूझबूझ to उद्धार  in a market economy .
Largely ,  अभियान्त्रिकी प्रबंधक मैनेज इंजीनियर्स जो हैं चलित by non-entrepreneurial सोच , यूँ आवश्यकता the जरुरी लोगों कौशल to कोच ,  mentor and motivate technical professionals .
Engineering professionals joining  निर्माण कंपनियाँ sometimes become अभियान्त्रिकी प्रबंधक  by default after a period of time .
They are required to learn  कैसा to मैनेज एकबार वे हैं on the जॉब , हालांकि इस is प्रायः  an ineffective way to develop managerial abilities .
In an insurance  नीति , the deductible is the राशि of खर्च कि  must be paid out of pocket before an insurer will pay any expenses .
In general usage , the term deductible may  be प्रयुक्त to describe एक of अनेक प्रकार of clauses  ( see below ) that are used by insurance companies as a threshold for policy payments .
deductibles हैं typically प्रयुक्त to deter the विशाल क्रमांक of नगण्य दावा  that a consumer can be reasonably expected to bear the cost of .
By restricting its coverage to events that are significant enough to incur large costs , the insurance firm expects to  अदा आउट थोड़ा छोटी amounts much कम अक्सर , रूष्ट much उच्चतर बचत  .
As a result  , बीमे प्रीमियम हैं typically  cheaper when they involve higher deductibles .
Deductibles are  सामान्यतः provided as clauses in an बीमे नीति कि dictate कैसा much of an insurance-covered  expense is borne by the policyholder .
They are  सामान्यतः कोटेड as a फिक्स्ड मात्रा और is a भाग  of most policies covering losses to the policy holder .
The insurer then becomes liable for claimable expenses that  exceed इस राशि ( विषय to the अधिकतम योग claimable indicated  in the contract ) .
Depending on the policy , the  deductible may लागू प्रति covered घटना , or प्रति  year .
For policies where  incidences हैं नहीं आसान to delimit ( लिये उदाहरण स्वास्थ्य बीमे ) ,  the deductible is typically applied per year .
Several  deductibles can be नियत by the insurer  based on the cause of the claim .
For example , a single housing insurance policy may contain multiple deductible amounts for loss or  क्षति arising इससे चोरी , आग , प्राकृतिक calamities , निकासी इत्यादि  .
There are also deductible reimbursement  कार्यक्रम कि reimburse a deductible in the इवेंट of an स्वचालित , घर , boat/yacht or स्वास्थ्य  insurance claim .
An invoice or bill  is a वाणिज्यिक दस्तावेज़ जारी by a विक्रेता to a खरीदार  , indicating the products , quantities , and agreed prices for products or services the seller has provided the buyer .
An invoice indicates the  बिक्री लेनदेन  only .
Payment  शर्तें हैं स्वतंत्र of the चालान और हैं  negotiated by the buyer and the seller .
Payment terms are  प्रायः शामिल on  the invoice .
The buyer could  have already सशुल्क लिये the उत्पाद or सेवाएं  listed on the invoice .
Buyer can also have a maximum  क्रमांक of दिनों in जिससे to अदा लिये ये goods और is sometimes offered a छूट  if paid before the due date .
In the rental industry , an invoice must include a specific reference  to the अवधि of the समय होने billed , so in जोड to मात्रा , दाम  and discount the invoicing amount is also based on duration .
Generally each line of a rental invoice will refer to the  वास्तविक घंटों , दिनों , सप्ताह , महीने , etc. , होने billed  .
From  the पाइंट of दृश्य of a विक्रेता , an  invoice is a sales invoice .
From the  पाइंट of दृश्य of a खरीदार , an  invoice is a purchase invoice .
The document  indicates the खरीदार और विक्रेता , लकिन the  term invoice indicates money is owed or owing .
In English , the context of the term invoice is usually  प्रयुक्त to clarify इसके अर्थ , ऐसे as `` we भेजा उन्हें an चालान '' ( वे  owe us money ) or `` We received an invoice from them '' ( we owe them money ) .
The right main bronchus ( or right primary bronchus , or right principal  bronchus ) is a bronchus of the respiratory  system .
It is wider ,  shorter , और अधिक लंबवत  in direction than the left .
It is about 2.5 cm long ,  और enters the सही फेफड़ों nearly विपरीत  the fifth thoracic vertebra .
The azygos vein arches over it from  पीछे ; और the सही pulmonary धमनी झूठ at पहला नीचे और  then in front of it .
About 2 cm from its commencement  it देता बंद a शाखा to the अपर  lobe of the right lung .
This is termed the eparterial  शाखा of the bronchus , क्युकी it  arises above the right pulmonary artery .
The bronchus now passes below the artery , and is known as the hyparterial branch ; it  divides into दो शाखाओं लिये the मध्य और निम्नतर निर्मोक  .
If a foreign body in the airway passes through the trachea , it will most likely enter the right main bronchus instead of the  बाएँ , due to the straighter संरेखण of the सही bronchus to the श्वासनली  .
Squash is a racquet sport played by two ( singles ) or four players (  युगल ) in a four-walled अदालत साथ a छोटी , खोखला  rubber ball .
The players must  वैकल्पिक in striking the बॉल साथ उनके racquet और hit the बॉल onto  the playable surfaces of the four walls of the court .
The game was formerly called squash racquets , a  सन्दर्भ to the `` squashable '' नरम बॉल प्रयुक्त in the खेल ( compared साथ the fatter  ball used in its parent game racquets or rackets ) .
Squash is  पहचाना by the ioc और समर्थक हैं lobbying लिये इसके incorporation  in a future Olympic program .
in 2003 , फोर्ब्स रेटेड स्क्वैश as  the number one healthiest sport to play .
Residual oil is oil found in low  एकाग्रता naturally or in बेहाल आयल फ़ील्ड  .
Often mixed with water , it can not be  बरामद by conventional तकनीकों  .
However , it can be recovered using carbon  dioxide-enhanced आयल रिकवरी ( co2 eor ) जिससे involves injecting कार्बन डाइऑक्साइड into  the well reducing viscosity and enhancing flow of the oil .
The technique is not new but has not been used extensively on residual  आयल zones , low-grade जमा of पेट्रोलियम ऐसे as the 38 वर्गाकार मील  in the Permian Basin of Texas leased by Elliott Roosevelt Jr .
The technique  is सीमित by उपलब्धता  of carbon dioxide .
It does not result in sequestration of the carbon  डाइऑक्साइड लकिन the गैस is recycled as much  as possible .
United States  reserves of अवशेष आयल हैं  estimated to be 100 billion barrels .
कलाकार 's रेंडरिंग of the आग , by जॉन R. chapin , originally  printed in Harper 's Weekly ; the view faces northeast across the Randolph Street Bridge .
The Great Chicago Fire was a  conflagration कि burned इससे संडे , अक्तूबर 8 , to जल्दी मंगलवार , अक्तूबर 10 , 1871 , हत्या सैंकड़ों और destroying  about in Chicago , Illinois .
Though the fire was one of  the largest u.S. आपदाओं of the 19th सदी , the पुनर्निर्माण कि began helped develop  Chicago as one of the most populous and economically important American cities .
Henry VIII ( 28 June 1491 – 28 January 1547 )  थी किंग of इंग्लैण्ड इससे 21 अप्रैल  1509 until his death .
He was lord , and later king , of Ireland , as  खूब as continuing the नाममात्र अर्जी by the अंग्रेज़ी monarchs  to the Kingdom of France .
Henry was the second  monarch of the ट्यूडर राजवंश , succeeding  his father , Henry VII .
Besides his six marriages , Henry VIII is known for his role in the  विरह of the गिरिजाघर of इंग्लैण्ड इससे the रोमन कैथोलिक  Church .
Henry 's struggles with Rome led to the  विरह of the गिरिजाघर of इंग्लैण्ड इससे papal प्राधिकार , the विच्छेद of the monasteries  , and his own establishment as the Supreme Head of the Church of England .
Yet he remained a believer in core Catholic theological  शिक्षाओं , भी बाद उसके excommunication इससे the रोमन  Catholic Church .
Henry oversaw the  विधिक संघ of इंग्लैण्ड और वेल्स साथ the  Laws in Wales Acts 1535 and 1542 .
In 1513 , the new king allied with the Holy Roman  सम्राट , maximillian i , और invaded फ़्रांस in 1513 साथ a विशाल , well-equipped फौज ,  but achieved little at a considerable financial cost .
Maximillian , for his part , used the English invasion  to उसके अपना ends , और इस prejudiced इंग्लैण्ड 's क्षमता to शिकस्त the  French .
This foray would prove the start of  an obsession लिये हेनरी , जो  invaded again in 1544 .
This time , Henry 's forces captured the important city of Boulogne , but again the Holy Roman Emperor , Charles V , supported  हेनरी तभी as long as he needed to और इंग्लैण्ड  , strained by the enormous cost of the war , ransomed the city back for peace .
His contemporaries considered Henry in his prime to be an attractive , educated and accomplished  किंग , और he रै महरूम वर्णित as `` एक of the सबसे charismatic शासकों  to sit on the English throne '' .
Besides ruling  साथ निरपेक्ष शक्ति , he भी सगाई  himself as an author and composer .
His desire to provide England with a male heir – which stemmed partly from personal vanity and partly because he believed a daughter would be unable to consolidate the Tudor dynasty and the fragile peace that  existed following the युद्धों of the गुलाब – led to the दो बाते लिये जिससे हेनरी is सबसे remembered  : his six marriages and the English Reformation .
Henry became morbidly  मोटे और उसके स्वास्थ्य suffered , contributing  to his death in 1547 .
he is अक्सर characterised in उसके बाद जीवन  as a lustful , egotistical , harsh , and insecure king .
La Reina del Sur ( The Queen of the South ) is a Spanish-language telenovela  उत्पादित by the संयुक्त राज्य टेलीविज़न संजाल telemundo , in संयोजन साथ the एंटेना 3 संजाल और rti producciones  .
Based on a novel of the same name by Spanish author Arturo  pérez-reverte , the नाटक depicts the वृद्धि of टेरेसा मेंडोज़ा ( केट डेल कैस्टिलो ) , a यंग स्त्री इससे मैक्सिको जो becomes the सबसे  powerful drug trafficker in southern Spain .
Patricio Wills , the president of  telemundo टेलीविज़न studios , थी the कार्यपालिका निर्माता  .
Though La Reina del Sur was nominated for  novela of the साल , पसंदीदा सीसे अभिनेत्री , और बेहतरीन ख़राब लक वीडियो , it जीती no पुरस्कार  .
With a $ 10 million budget , La  reina डेल सूर थी the सबसे  expensive telenovela ever produced by Telemundo .
the कार्यक्रम 's प्रीमियर on फ़रवरी 28  , 2011 , was the network 's highest rated premiere for a telenovela to date .
The program frequently dominated its time slot  , भी over अंग्रेज़ी भाषा प्रोग्रामिंग on अन्य  major U.S. networks .
La Reina del Sur completed its 63 episode run on Telemundo and its 13  एपीसोड चलाएं on एंटेना 3 simultaneously on may 30 , 2011  .
The final episode was the highest rated broadcast in Telemundo 's 19-year history ( 4.2 million  दर्शक ) , और ताल सब of the अंग्रेज़ी भाषा u.S. टेलीविज़न संजाल to earn the क्रमांक एक स्लॉट in the 18-49 वयस्क जनसांख्यिकी  .
The program 's success  spurred telemundo to लॉन्च इसके पहला अभियान to लाभ the श्रेणी  an Emmy Award nomination .
A one-night special featuring several cast members aired on May 31 , 2011 , and marked  the telemundo डेब्यू of विख्यात latina टेलीविज़न व्यक्तित्व क्रिस्टीना saralegui  .
La Reina del Sur is broadcast in several other  बाज़ार , सहित सर्बिया , कोलंबिया , चिली , साइप्रस , निकारागुआ , कोस्टा रिका , मैक्सिको , अल्बानियाई  , Hungary , Slovenia , Croatia , Romania , ( among others ) .
An  उदाहरण of रैक आरोहित सर्वर
a वेब होस्टिंग सेवा is a प्रकार of अंतरजाल होस्टिंग सेवा कि allows individuals  and organizations to make their website accessible via the World Wide Web .
Web hosts are companies  कि provide स्पेस on a सर्वर स्वामित्व or leased लिये उपयोग by क्लाइंट  , as well as providing Internet connectivity , typically in a data center .
Web hosts can also provide data center space and connectivity to the  अंतरजाल लिये अन्य सर्वर स्तिथ in उनके आंकड़ा बीच , पुकारा colocation , भी  known as Housing in Latin America or France .
The scope of web  होस्टिंग सेवाएं varies  greatly .
The most basic is web page and  small-scale संचिका होस्टिंग , जहाँ फाइलें can be अपलोड via संचिका ट्रांसफ़र  Protocol ( FTP ) or a Web interface .
The  फाइलें हैं प्रायः वितरित to  the Web `` as is '' or with minimal processing .
Many Internet service providers (  isps ) प्रस्ताव इस सेवा फ़्री  to subscribers .
individuals और संगठन may भी  obtain Web page hosting from alternative service providers .
Personal web site hosting is typically free ,  advertisement-sponsored , or inexpensive  .
Business web site hosting  प्रायः रै a उच्चतर व्यय depending upon the  size and type of the website .
सिंगल पेज होस्टिंग is generally sufficient  for personal web pages .
A complex site calls for a more comprehensive package that provides database support and  अनुप्रयोग विकास प्लेटफ़ॉर्म ( e.g . पीएचपी , जावा , माणिक्य on rails , coldfusion  , or ASP.NET ) .
These facilities allow customers to write or install  स्क्रिप्ट लिये अनुप्रयोग जैसे forums और सामग्री प्रबन्धन  .
Also , Secure Sockets Layer (  एसएसएल ) is typically प्रयुक्त लिये e-commerce  .
The host may also provide an interface or control panel  लिये मैनेजिंग the वेब सर्वर और installing स्क्रिप्ट , as खूब as अन्य मौड्यूल  and service applications like e-mail .
Some hosts specialize in certain software or services ( e.g .  e-commerce ) , जिससे हैं commonly प्रयुक्त by larger कंपनियाँ कि outsource  network infrastructure .
Madden NFL ( known as John Madden Football before 1993 )  is an अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल वीडियो खेल श्रेणी विकसित  by Electronic Arts Tiburon for EA Sports .
The game series  is नामित बाद प्रो फ़ुटबॉल हॉल of famer जॉन मैडेन , a well-known पूर्व सुपर  Bowl –winning coach of the Oakland Raiders and color commentator .
The series is  the बेहतरीन selling ea खेल  series .
The games have consistently been a best  विक्रेता , और रै भी शाखित tv shows जहाँ  players compete .
Among the game 's realistic features include sophisticated playbooks and player statistics , and voice  commentary कि allows खिलाड़ी to सुन the खेल as if it यहूद a रियल tv ब्रॉडकास्ट  .
the मैडेन एनएफएल श्रेणी  has been nicknamed the NFL 's 33rd Franchise .
The series  थी originally conceived by इलेक्ट्रॉनिक कला संस्थापक ट्रिप हॉकिन्स  , who then approached Madden in 1984 for his endorsement and expertise .
Due to Madden 's insistence that the game be as realistic as  संभावित , the पहला संस्करण of जॉन मैडेन फ़ुटबॉल थी नहीं released  until 1988 .
The second version of the game was released in 1990 ,  साथ सालाना संस्करण चूंकि तब  .
The series ' name  थी बदला to मैडेन एनएफएल in 1993 बाद  EA acquired the rights to use NFL teams and players .
despite मैडेन 's रिटायरमेंट as a प्रसारणकर्ता in 2009  , he continues to lend his name and provide expertise for the game .
Cindy Lee Miller Sheehan ( born July 10 , 1957 ) is  an अमरीकी antiwar activist जिनकी बेटे , u.S. फौज विशेषज्ञ  Casey Sheehan , was killed by enemy action during the Iraq War .
She attracted national and international media attention in August 2005 for her extended antiwar  विरोध at a makeshift शिविर बाहर अध्यक्ष जार्ज W. बुश 's टेक्सास ranch —a स्टैंड कि खींचा दोनो passionate support और एंग्री  criticism .
Sheehan ran  unsuccessfully लिये कॉंग्रेस in  2008 .
She is a vocal critic  of अध्यक्ष बराक ओबामा 's  foreign policy .
Her memoir , Peace Mom : A Mother 's Journey Through Heartache  to सक्रियता , थी प्रकाशित in 2006  .
Sheehan was  the 2012 vice-presidential nominee of the सलाम  and Freedom Party .
Wyclef Jeanelle Jean ( ; ; born October 17 , 1969 ) Wyclef Dumped From  हैती 's अध्यक्षीय बैलट – समय , अगस्त 21 , 2010  .
`` Before he announced on August 5 that he was  कार्यशील लिये अध्यक्ष of हैती , wyclef जां थी स्टिल लिस्टिंग उसके आयु as  only 37 years old .
But after declaring himself a presidential candidate , the Haitian-American-Irish hip-hop star also decided to come clean and confirm  कि he थी वाकई 40 . '' is a three-time ग्रैमी पुरस्कार -winning haitian-american rapper , singer-songwriter  , musician , record producer , and politician .
at आयु नौ , जां स्थानांतरित to the संयुक्त राज्य  with his family and has spent much of his life in the country .
He first received fame as a member of the  acclaimed नई जर्सी हिप हॉप समूह the  Fugees .
On August 5 ,  2010 , जां दायर लिये उम्मीदवारी in the 2010 haitian अध्यक्षीय चुनाव , हालांकि the चुनावी  Commission subsequently ruled him ineligible to stand as he had not met the requirement to have been resident in Haiti for five years .
Wyclef  जां to अपील विरूद्ध हैती चुनाव  ruling – BBC News , Aug 22 , 2010 .
Haiti 's electoral commission said that Mr Jean was ineligible to stand as the Haitian constitution requires candidates to  have जिया in the देश लिये पाँच  years prior to an election .
The 40-year-old  सिंगर जीवनदान in the  US .
जां 's प्रयत्न at भूकंप राहत , अत्यधिक publicized in 2010 throughout हैती और the संयुक्त राज्य , यहूद  channeled through his charitable organization , Yéle Haiti .
The  दान , जिससे performed a किस्में of charitable works in हैती between 2005  and 2010 , effectively closed in 2012 .
In law , a set-off  is a statutory रक्षा to the पूरे or to a portion of a  plaintiff 's claim .
It had no existence under the English common law , being  निर्मित by 2 जियो . ii c. 22 लिये the राहत of insolvent कर्जदार , हालांकि set-off थी पहचाना in  equity .
Such a defense could be pleaded only in respect of mutual debts of a definite  अक्षर , और किया नहीं लागू to मामले in जिससे क्षतिपूर्ति यहूद claimed , nor to निष्पक्ष  claims or demands .
By the rules of the Supreme Court ( O. XIX . r. 3 ) a defendant in an action may set off or set  up कोई सही or अर्जी by रास्ता of counterclaim विरूद्ध the दावा of a अभियोक्ता , और ऐसे  set-off or counterclaim has the same effect as a statement of claim in a cross-action .
The legal defense of set-off ( above ) was originally introduced to prevent the unfair situation whereby a person ( `` Party A '' )  जो owed धन to another ( `` पार्टी b '' ) could be भेजा to कर्जदार थाना , despite  the fact that Party B also owed money to Party A .
The  विधि यूँ allows दोनो पार्टियों to टालना  payment until their respective claims have been heard in court .
Upon  निर्णय , दोनो दावा हैं बुझे और replaced by a सिंगल जाल योग owing ( e.g . if पार्टी a owes पार्टी b 100  and Party B owes Party A 105 , the two sums are set off and replaced with a single obligation of 5 from Party B to Party A ) .
Set-off can also be  incorporated by contractual अनुबंध so कि , जहाँ a पार्टी मूलभूत  , the mutual amounts owing are automatically set off and extinguished .
In certain jurisdictions ( including the  uk ) , set-off takes प्लेस automatically  upon the insolvency of a company .
This means that , for each party which is both a creditor and debtor of the insolvent company , mutual debts are set-off against each other , and then either the bankrupt 's creditor can  अर्जी the संतुलन in the दिवालियापन or the ट्रस्टी in दिवालियापन can पूछो लिये the संतुलन बाकी to be सशुल्क , depending on  which side owed the most .
This has been criticized as an  undeclared सुरक्षा ब्याज कि violates the principle of  pari passu .
The alternative , where a creditor has to pay all its  debts , लकिन प्राप्त तभी a सीमित portion of the leftover moneys कि  other unsecured creditors get , poses the danger of 'knock-on ' insolvencies .
The right to set off  is विशेषकर महत्वपूर्ण जब रिपोर्टिंग a बैंको 's विकिरणों  to regulatory authorities .
The situation where a bank has to report that it has lent a large sum to a borrower ( and is therefore exposed , because there is a risk that the borrower might default thereby leading to the loss of the bank 's or its  जमाकर्ताओं ' धन ) is यूँ replaced ( जहाँ the बैंको रै लिया सुरक्षा over साझा or प्रतिभूति of the borrower ) साथ an एक्सपोज़र of the धन lent ऋण the मान of the सुरक्षा लिया  .
Jennifer Joanna Aniston ( born  फ़रवरी 11 , 1969 ) is an अमरीकी अभिनेत्री , फिल्मी निदेशक  , and producer .
Aniston gained  विश्वव्यापी मान्यता in the 1990s लिये portraying रेचल ग्रीन on the टेलीविज़न sitcom मित्रों , a  role which earned her an Emmy Award , a Golden Globe Award , and a Screen Actors Guild Award .
Aniston  रै भी enjoyed  a successful Hollywood film career .
She  gained नाजुक acclaim लिये उसके प्रदर्शन in the स्वतंत्र films वो 's the एक ( 1996 ) , दफ्तर स्पेस  ( 1999 ) , The Good Girl ( 2002 ) and Friends with Money ( 2006 ) .
She has had her greatest commercial successes  साथ the films ब्रूस सर्वशक्तिमान ( 2003 ) , the break-up ( 2006 ) , मार्ले & me ( 2008  ) , Just Go with It ( 2011 ) and Horrible Bosses ( 2011 ) .
Aniston  प्राप्त a स्टार on the हॉलीवुड चलना  of Fame on February 22 , 2012 .
A  श्वेत बंगाल बाघ at  the Houston Aquarium
(  वीडियो  )
A White  बाघ at tobu चिड़ियाघर , in saitama  , Japan .
The white tiger is a recessive mutant of the  बंगाल बाघ , जिससे थी reported in the जंगली इससे समय to समय in असम , बंगाल ,  Bihar and especially from the former State of Rewa .
Conventional PCI ( PCI is an initialism  formed इससे परिधीय घटक इंटरकनेक्ट , भाग of the पीसीआई लोकल बस मानक और प्रायः shortened to बस पीसीआई )  is a local computer bus for attaching hardware devices in a computer .
the पीसीआई बस supports the कृत्यों मिला on a प्रोसेसर बस , लकिन in  a standardized format that is independent of any particular processor .
Devices connected to the bus appear to the processor to be connected directly  to the प्रोसेसर बस , और हैं आबंटित पता in the प्रोसेसर  's address space .
Attached devices can take  either the रूप of an एकीकृत सर्किट fitted onto the मदरबोर्ड  itself , called a planar device in the PCI specification , or an expansion card that fits into a slot .
The PCI Local Bus was first implemented in IBM PC  compatibles , जहाँ it विस्थापित the संयोजन  of ISA plus one VESA Local Bus as the bus configuration .
It has  subsequently महरूम अपनाया लिये अन्य कंप्यूटर  types .
PCI and  pci-x हैं होने replaced by पीसीआई एक्स्प्रेस , लकिन , सबसे  motherboards are still made with one or more PCI slots , which are sufficient for many uses .
The  पीसीआई specification कवर the शारीरिक आकार of the बस ( सहित the आकार और अंतरण of the  circuit board edge electrical contacts ) , electrical characteristics , bus timing , and protocols .
The specification  can be खरीदा इससे the पीसीआई खास ब्याज  Group ( PCI-SIG ) .
Typical PCI cards used in PCs  शामिल : संजाल ताश , ध्वनि ताश , modems  , extra ports such as USB or serial , TV tuner cards and disk controllers .
PCI  वीडियो ताश replaced isa और vesa ताश , जबतक growing बैंडविड्थ आवश्यकताएँ  outgrew the capabilities of PCI ; the preferred interface for video cards became AGP , and then PCI Express .
PCI video cards remain available for  उपयोग साथ बूढ़ा pcs बगैर अगप or पीसीआई एक्स्प्रेस स्लॉट  .
Many devices  previously provided on पीसीआई विस्तार ताश हैं अभी commonly  integrated onto motherboards or available in universal serial bus and PCI Express versions .
Caffeine is a bitter , white  crystalline xanthine एल्कलॉएड कि अधिनियमों as a उत्तेजक  drug .
Caffeine is found in varying quantities in the seeds , leaves , and  फल of कुछ पौधे , जहाँ it अधिनियमों as a प्राकृतिक कीटनाशक कि paralyzes और मारता निश्चित कीट feeding on the पौधे  , as well as enhancing the reward memory of pollinators .
It is most  commonly खपत by इंसानो in infusions निकाली इससे the बीज of the कॉफी संयंत्र और the  leaves of the tea bush , as well as from various foods and drinks containing products derived from the kola nut .
Other sources include yerba maté , guarana  जामुन , guayusa , और the yaupon होली  .
In humans , caffeine acts as a central nervous system  उत्तेजक , temporarily warding बंद drowsiness और restoring alertness  .
It is the world 's most widely consumed psychoactive drug , but unlike many other  psychoactive substances , it is विधिक और unregulated in nearly सब भाग of the  world .
Beverages containing  कैफीन , ऐसे as कॉफी , चाय , नरम पेय , और  energy drinks , enjoy great popularity .
In North America , 90 % of  वयस्कों consume कैफीन रोज़  .
Part of the reason caffeine is classified by the Food  और ड्रग प्रशासन as ग्रा ( generally पहचाना as सुरक्षित ) is कि विषाक्त doses ( over 10 गामा  ) are much higher than typically used doses ( less than 500 milligrams ) .
Ordinary consumption can have low health risks , even when carried on for  सालो – वहीँ may be a modest सुरक्षात्मक प्रभाव विरूद्ध कुछ रोगों , सहित parkinsons बीमारी  , and certain types of cancer .
Caffeine can  have दोनो धनात्मक और ऋणात्मक प्रभाव  on anxiety disorders .
Some people  अनुभव नींद disruption if वे consume कैफीन , विशेषकर  during the evening hours , but others show little disturbance and the effect of caffeine on sleep is highly variable .
Evidence of a risk to pregnancy is equivocal , but some  अधिकारियों have concluded कि दूरदर्शी सलाह is लिये गर्भवती  women to limit consumption to the equivalent of two cups of coffee per day or less .
The American  कॉंग्रेस of obstetricians और स्त्रीरोग ( acog ) concluded in 2010 कि कैफीन  consumption is safe up to 200 mg per day in pregnant women .
Caffeine has pressor and mild diuretic effects when administered to people who are not used to it  , लकिन नियमित उपयोक्ता develop a सहिष्णुता to इस प्रभाव , और अध्ययन have generally विफल to support the आम ख़्याल कि ordinary खपत  contributes significantly to dehydration .
With  भारी उपयोग , सहिष्णुता develops rapidly to autonomic प्रभाव ऐसे as elevated दिल रेट  and muscle twitching , but not to the cognitive or arousal effects of caffeine .
The degree to which caffeine can produce clinically  significant शारीरिक और दिमागी dependence remains a विषय of विवाद  in the medical literature .
A  kicktail  cruiser
A  longboard is a longer रूपांतर  of a skateboard .
it is commonly प्रयुक्त लिये cruising , downhill रेसिंग , slalom  racing , sliding , and/or transport .
Sources  बाहर of विकिपीडिया दे differing  estimates:
The CIA 's World Factbook gives the world population as 7,021,836,029 ( July  2012 est . ) और the वितरण of धर्मों as ईसाई 100 % ( of जिससे रोमन कैथोलिक 18.85 % , प्रोटोस्टेंट 8.15 % , परंपरागत 4.96 % , anglican 1.26 % ) , मुस्लिम 22.74 % , हिन्दू 13.8 % , बौद्ध 6.77 % , सिखों 0.35 %  , Jewish 0.22 % , Baha'i 0.11 % , other religions 10.95 % , non-religious 9.66 % , atheists 2.01 % .
( 2010 est  . ) .
The Coast Ranges of California  स्पैन इससे हम्बोल्ट काउंटी , कैलिफ़ोर्निया दक्षिण to  Santa Barbara County .
The other three coastal California mountain ranges are the  अनुप्रस्थ सीमाएँ , प्रायद्वीपीय सीमाएँ और the klamath kyu  .
Physiographically ,  वे हैं a खण्ड of the larger प्रशांत किनारा प्रांत , जिससे  in turn are part of the larger Pacific Mountain System physiographic division .
UNESCO has included the `` California Coast Ranges  जीवमंडल आरक्षित `` in इसके man और the जीवमंडल कार्यक्रम of संसार संजाल of जीवमंडल reserves  since 1983 .
Vehicles in use per country  इससे 2001 to 2007  .
It shows  the significant विकास  in BRIC .
संसार मैप of यात्री  cars per 1000 people
An automobile ,  autocar , मोटर car or car is a wheeled मोटर गाडी प्रयुक्त लिये transporting  passengers , which also carries its own engine or motor .
Most definitions of the term specify that automobiles are designed to  चलाएं primarily on सड़कें , to have seating लिये एक to आठ लोगों , to typically have चार पहियों  , and to be constructed principally for the transport of people rather than goods .
The term motorcar has also been used in the context of  electrified रेल प्रणालियों to denote a car जिससे कृत्यों as a छोटी लोकोमोटिव लकिन भी provides  space for passengers and baggage .
These locomotive cars were often used on  suburban रूट by दोनो interurban और intercity  railroad systems .
It was estimated in 2010  कि the क्रमांक of ऑटोमोबाइल था risen to over  1 billion vehicles , up from the 500 million of 1986 .
The numbers are  increasing rapidly , विशेषकर in  China and India .
जॉन fitzgerald `` जोकर '' कैनेडी ( may 29 , 1917 – नवम्बर 22 , 1963 ) , प्रायः referred to by उसके आद्याक्षर jfk , थी  the 35th President of the United States , serving from 1961 until his death in 1963 .
After military service as commander of the Motor  torpedo नौकाएँ pt-109 और pt-59 दौरान संसार युद्ध ii in the दक्षिण प्रशांत , कैनेडी represented  Massachusetts ' 11th congressional district in the U.S. House of Representatives from 1947 to 1953 as a Democrat .
thereafter , he परोसा in the u.S. सीनेट इससे 1953  until 1960 .
Kennedy defeated Vice President  और रिपब्लिकन प्रत्याशी रिचर्ड  Nixon in the 1960 U.S. presidential election .
At 43 years of age , he is the youngest to have been elected to the office , the second-youngest President ( after  थियोडोर रूज़वेल्ट ) , और the पहला व्यक्ति born in the 20th सदी to serve as अध्यक्ष  .
A Catholic , Kennedy is  the तभी non- प्रोटोस्टेंट अध्यक्ष , और is the तभी अध्यक्ष  to have won a Pulitzer Prize .
Events during his presidency included the Bay of Pigs Invasion , the Cuban Missile Crisis , the building of  the बर्लिन वॉल , the स्पेस रेस , the african-american सिविल अधिकारों गति , और जल्दी  stages of the Vietnam War .
Therein , Kennedy  increased the क्रमांक of सैन्य advisers , खास आपरेशन शक्तियां , और helicopters in an प्रयत्न to  curb the spread of communism in South East Asia .
The Kennedy administration adopted the policy of the Strategic Hamlet Program  जिससे थी implemented by the दक्षिण वियतनामी  government .
It involved certain forced  relocation , गाँव internment , और पृथक्करण of ग्रामीण दक्षिण वियतनामी इससे the उत्तरी  and southern communist insurgents .
Kennedy was  assassinated on नवम्बर 22 , 1963 in डलास ,  Texas .
ली घनघोर ओसवाल्ड थी चार्ज साथ the  crime , but he was shot and killed by Jack Ruby two days later , before a trial could take place .
The FBI and the Warren Commission officially  concluded कि ओसवाल्ड थी the लोन हत्यारे  .
However , the United States House Select Committee on Assassinations (  hsca ) concluded कि those investigations यहूद flawed और कि कैनेडी थी संभवतः  assassinated as the result of a conspiracy .
However , ABC News in their investigation , The Kennedy Assassination :  परे षड्यंत्र , पुष्टि the निष्कर्षों of the वारेन आयोग ; having  concluded Oswald acted alone .
Kennedy 's controversial  विभाग of रक्षा tfx सेनानी bomber कार्यक्रम led to a congressional  investigation that lasted from 1963 to 1970 .
चूंकि the 1960s सूचना concerning  Kennedy 's private life has come to light .
Details of Kennedy 's health problems in which he struggled  have become बेहतर ज्ञात , विशेषकर चूंकि  the 1990s .
Although initially kept  रहस्य इससे the सामान्य पब्लिक , रिपोर्ट्स of कैनेडी 's philandering  have garnered much press .
Kennedy  बाँधने अत्यधिक in पब्लिक  opinion ratings of U.S. presidents .
A Siemens MXL  आग सचेतक कंट्रोल फलक ( शीर्ष ) और ग्राफिक annunciator  ( bottom ) for Potomac Hall , at James Madison University .
A Vigilant VM-1 fire alarm control unit ( FACU ) / autonomous control  ईकाई ( acu ) साथ एकीकृत आवाज़ निकासी और आग सेनानी टेलीफोन  system .
manufactured by एडवर्ड्स , a  UTC F & S Company
A  आग सचेतक कंट्रोल फलक ( facp ) , or आग  Alarm Control Unit ( FACU ) , is the controlling component of a Fire Alarm System .
The panel receives information from environmental sensors designed to detect changes associated with fire ,  मॉनीटर उनके operational अखंडता और provides लिये स्वचालित कंट्रोल of उपकरण , और  transmission of information necessary to prepare the facility for fire based on a predetermined sequence .
The panel may also  सप्लाई विद्युत उर्जा to operate  any associated sensor , control , transmitter , or relay .
There are four basic  प्रकार of panels : coded panels  , conventional panels , addressable panels , and multiplex systems .
This  is a सूची of the पहला म्यूज़िक वीडियो ब्रॉडकास्ट  on MTV 's first day , August 1 , 1981 .
MTV 's first day on the air was rebroadcast on VH1 Classic in 2006 and uploaded onto YouTube in 2010 ( although only the  पहला चार घंटों यहूद प्रामाणिक ; the बाकी यहूद संपादित vh1 rebroadcasts  ) .
Bandaranaike International Airport ( BIA ) ( also known as Katunayake International Airport and  कोलोन अंतरराष्ट्रीय विमानक्षेत्र ) is एक of the दो अंतरराष्ट्रीय एयरपोर्ट सेवारत the नगर of कोलोन , the अन्य is  Ratmalana International Airport .
Mattala Rajapaksa  अंतरराष्ट्रीय विमानक्षेत्र स्तिथ in दक्षिणी नगर of hambantota is  the other international airport in Sri Lanka .
Bandaranaike International  विमानक्षेत्र is स्तिथ in katunayake , 22 मील ( 35 km  ) north of Colombo .
It  is administered by विमानक्षेत्र और विमानन  Services ( Sri Lanka ) Ltd .
It is the hub of SriLankan Airlines , the  नेशनल वाहक of श्री लंका , और mihin लंका , the बजट  airline of Sri Lanka .
Black Swan is a 2010 American psychological thriller and horror  फिल्मी निर्देशित by डैरेन aronofsky और अभिनीत नताली पोर्टमैन  , Vincent Cassel , and Mila Kunis .
The plot  घूमती around a उत्पादन of tchaikovsky 's swan झील  ballet by a prestigious New York City company .
The production requires a ballerina to play the innocent  और नाजुक श्वेत swan , लिये जिससे the वचनबद्ध नर्तकी नीना ( पोर्टमैन ) is a पूर्ण अनुरूप , as खूब as the अंधेरा और कामुक  Black Swan , which are qualities embodied by the new arrival Lily ( Kunis ) .
Nina is  अभिभूत by a अहसास of immense दबाव जब वो पाता herself स्पर्धा लिये the भाग , causing उसके to खोना उसके tenuous पकड़  on reality and descend into a living nightmare .
Aronofsky conceived the premise by connecting his viewings of a  उत्पादन of swan झील साथ an unrealized पटकथा परिचय understudies और the ख़्याल of होने haunted by a दोगुना  , similar to the folklore surrounding doppelgängers .
Aronofsky cites Fyodor  दोस्तोयेव्स्की 's `` the दोगुना `` as another  inspiration for the film .
The director also considered Black Swan a companion piece to his 2008 film The Wrestler , with both  films involving demanding प्रदर्शन लिये अलग kinds of आर्ट  .
He and Portman first discussed the project in 2000 , and after a  ब्रैड अनुलग्नक to सार्वभौमिक studios , ब्लैक swan थी उत्पादित in नई यॉर्क नगर in  2009 by Fox Searchlight Pictures .
पोर्टमैन और kunis प्रशिक्षित in बैले लिये अनेक महीने prior to फिल्मांकन , और notable  figures from the ballet world helped with film production to shape the ballet presentation .
The film  premiered as the खोलने फिल्मी लिये the  67th Venice International Film Festival on September 1 , 2010 .
It had a limited release in the United  राज्य starting दिसम्बर 3 , 2010 और खोली देशभर on दिसम्बर  17 .
Black Swan received critical praise upon  इसके रिलीज , विशेषकर लिये पोर्टमैन 's प्रदर्शन और aronofsky 's दिशा , और थी a  significant box office success , grossing $ 329 million worldwide .
The film received five Academy Award nominations and  पोर्टमैन जीती the बेहतरीन अभिनेत्री पुरस्कार लिये the फिल्मी , as खूब as अनेक अन्य बेहतरीन अभिनेत्री पुरस्कार in अनेक  guilds and festivals , while Aronofsky was nominated for Best Director .
In  जोड , the फिल्मी itself प्राप्त a नामांकन  for Best Picture .
The world’s first ice-calorimeter , used in the winter of 1782-83 , by Antoine Lavoisier and Pierre-Simon Laplace , to determine the heat involved in  विभिन्न रासायनिक परिवर्तन ; calculations जिससे यहूद आधारित on जोसेफ  Black ’s prior discovery of latent heat .
ये प्रयोग चिह्नित the  foundation of thermochemistry .
A  ऊष्मामापी ( इससे लैटिन calor , अर्थ ऊष्मा ) is an ऑब्जेक्ट प्रयुक्त लिये कैलोरीमिति , or the प्रक्रम  of measuring the heat of chemical reactions or physical changes as well as heat capacity .
Differential scanning  calorimeters , समतापी microcalorimeters , titration calorimeters  and accelerated rate calorimeters are among the most common types .
A simple calorimeter just consists of a  थर्मामीटर संलग्न to a मेटल संग्राहक पूरा of जल निलंबित  above a combustion chamber .
To  ढूँढें the enthalpy बदलें प्रति mole of a पदार्थ a in a  reaction between two substances A and B , the substances are added to a calorimeter and the initial and final temperatures ( before the reaction started and after it has finished ) are noted .
Multiplying the temperature change by the mass and  विशिष्ट ऊष्मा capacities of the substances देता a मान लिये the उर्जा दिए  off or absorbed during the reaction .
Dividing the  उर्जा बदलें by कैसा अनेक औज़ार of a यहूद उपस्थित देता इसके  enthalpy change of reaction .
This method is used  primarily in अकादमिक शिक्षण as it describes  the theory of calorimetry .
It does not account for the heat  घाटा through the संग्राहक or the ऊष्मा क्षमता of the  thermometer and container itself .
In addition , the object placed inside the calorimeter shows that the objects transferred their heat to the calorimeter and into the liquid ,  और the ऊष्मा अवशोषित by the ऊष्मामापी और the द्रव is बराबर to the ऊष्मा दिए बंद by the धातुओं  .
A  जोड़ी of ग्रीन  flip-flops
Flip-flops ( also called zōri , thongs , jandals , or a variety of other names  throughout the संसार ) हैं a प्रकार of open-toed चन्दन typically worn in कैज़ुअल परिस्थितियों , ऐसे  as outside or at the beach .
They consist of a flat sole held loosely on the foot  by a y-shaped डोरी कि गुजरता between the पहला और दूसरी toes और around either पक्ष of the  foot .
They may also be held to the  पैर साथ a सिंगल डोरी over the सामने of the  foot rather than a thong .
The name `` flip-flop '' originated  क्युकी of the ध्वनि कि is बना by slapping between the एकमात्र of the पैर और the मंजिल  when walking .
इस स्टाइल of जूते रै महरूम worn by the लोगों of अनेक  cultures throughout the world , originating as early as the ancient Egyptians in 4,000 B.C .
The modern flip-flop descends from the Japanese zōri , which  became लोकप्रिय बाद संसार युद्ध ii जब सैनिको returning to the संयुक्त  States brought them back .
They became popular in casual settings  दौरान the 1960s , 1990s , और 2000s , और कुछ किस्में have भी मिला उनके  way into more formal attire , despite criticism .
The use of flip-flops can result in many pains and  चोटों , सहित टखने sprains और टूटा हड्डियों  .
Some individuals who walk for  long अवधि रपट पीड़ा in the  feet , ankles , and lower legs .
The lack of support provided by flip-flops often results in over-pronation  चोटों , caused by the पैर घुसते inwards further  than normal .
इस can सीसे  to flat feet and tendonitis .
Other injuries that may result are due to the  जूते 's open-toed प्रकृति , ऐसे as stubbed toes , कटौती , और bruises  .
डॉक्टर सुझाएँ खरीदना pricier चप्पल साथ thick-cushioned सोल्स , as खूब  as those that have a strap that is not canvas and that comes back almost to the ankle .
The owners of Hanjin Osaka , seen here transiting the Panama Canal in 2008 , declared  सामान्य औसत following an विस्फोट in the जलयान 's इंजन  room on .
The law of general average is a legal  principle of मेरीटाइम विधि according to जिससे सब पार्टियों in a समुद्र venture proportionally  share any losses resulting from a voluntary sacrifice of part of the ship or cargo to save the whole in an emergency .
In the exigencies of hazards faced at sea , crew members often have precious little time in  जिससे to determine precisely जिनकी कार्गो वे  are jettisoning .
Thus , to avoid quarrelling that could waste valuable time , there arose the equitable practice whereby all the merchants whose cargo landed safely would be called on to  योगदान a portion , आधारित upon a share or प्रतिशत , to the व्यापारी or व्यापारियों जिनकी goods था महरूम tossed overboard to avert  imminent peril .
जबकि सामान्य औसत traces इसके origins in प्राचीन मेरीटाइम विधि , स्टिल it  remains part of the admiralty law of most countries .
The first codification of general  औसत थी the यॉर्क antwerp नियम of 1890  .
American  कंपनियाँ स्वीकृत it  in 1949 .
General average requires three elements which are clearly stated by  mr. इंसाफ grier in बर्नार्ड v. आदमs:
`` 1st  .
A common danger : a danger in which  पोत , कार्गो और क्रू सब participate ; a खतरे निकट और जाहिर 'inevitable , ' मगर by voluntarily  incurring the loss of a portion of the whole to save the remainder . ''
`` 2nd . There must be a voluntary jettison , jactus , or casting away , of some portion of the joint  चिंता लिये the purpose of बचने इस निकट peril , periculi imminentis evitandi causa , or , in अन्य शब्द , a ट्रांसफ़र of the peril इससे  the whole to a particular portion of the whole . ''
``  3rd .
This attempt to avoid the imminent  आम peril जरूर be  successful '' .
Example Polish  कॉल लिये टीकाकरण विरूद्ध डिप्थीरिया  and Tetanus .
A vaccination schedule is a series of vaccinations , including the timing of all doses , which may be either  अनुशंसित or अनिवार्य , depending on the देश  of residence .
A  टीका is an antigenic तैयारी प्रयुक्त to उपज क्रियाशील प्रतिरक्षण to a  disease , in order to prevent or reduce the effects of infection by any natural or `` wild '' pathogen .
अनेक टीके आवश्यकता अनेक doses लिये अधिकतम प्रभावकारिता  , either to produce sufficient initial immune response or to boost response that fades over time .
For example  , टेटनस टीका boosters हैं प्रायः  recommended every 10 years .
Vaccine schedules are developed by  सरकारी एजेंसियों or physicians समूह to achieve अधिकतम प्रभावकारिता using जरूरी और अनुशंसित  vaccines for a locality while minimizing the number of health care system interactions .
Over the past  दो दशकों , the अनुशंसित टीकाकरण अनुसूची रै grown rapidly और become अधिक जटिल as अनेक नई टीके have महरूम  developed .
Some vaccines are recommended only in  निश्चित क्षेत्रों ( देशों , subnational क्षेत्रों , or at-risk populations ) जहाँ a बीमारी is  common .
लिये उदाहरण , पीला ज्वर टीकाकरण is on the दिनचर्या टीका  schedule of French Guiana , is recommended in certain regions of Brazil but in the United States is only given to travelers heading to countries with a history of the disease .
In  विकासशील देशों , टीका सुझाव भी लो into खाता the स्तर of स्वास्थ्य परवाह  access , the cost of vaccines and issues with vaccine availability and storage .
Sample vaccinations schedules discussed by the World  स्वास्थ्य संगठन दिखाएँ a विकसित देश using a अनुसूची जिससे extends over the पहला पाँच सालो of a चाइल्ड 's जीवन और उपयोग टीके जिससे लागत  over $ 700 including administration costs while a developing country uses a schedule providing vaccines in the first 9 months of life and costing only $ 25 .
This difference is due to the lower cost of health care , the lower cost of many  टीके provided to विकासशील राष्ट्र , और कि अधिक महंगी टीके , प्रायः लिये कम आम रोगों , हैं नहीं  utilized .
In 1900 , the smallpox vaccine was the  तभी एक administered to children  .
By the early 1950s , children routinely  प्राप्त चार टीके , लिये सुरक्षा विरूद्ध ( डिप्थीरिया  , pertussis , tetanus , polio , and smallpox ) , and as many as five shots by two years of age .
Since the  mid-1980s , अनेक टीके have महरूम added  to the schedule .
,  the us centers लिये बीमारी कंट्रोल और रोकथाम  ( CDC ) now recommends vaccination against at least fourteen diseases .
By two years of age , U.S. children  प्राप्त as अनेक as 24 टीका injections , और might प्राप्त up to पाँच गोलियाँ दौरान एक  visit to the doctor .
The use of combination vaccine products means that , , the United Kingdom 's immunization program consists of 10 injections by  the आयु of दो , बल्कि than 25 if टीकाकरण  for each disease was given as a separate injection .
Two revellers dance  in the गलियों  .
The form of  नाचना is पुकारा `` wining  '' ( winding ) pronounced wine-ing
A Music Truck  entertains the भीड on  the streets .
Trucks are an integral  भाग of the गली परेड , featuring सजीव प्रदर्शन  or deejays
The  त्रिनिदाद और टोबैगो कार्निवल is an सालाना इवेंट आयोजित on the सोमवार और मंगलवार पहले राख बुधवार , और is खूब  known for participant 's colorful costumes and exuberant celebrations .
Carnival  in त्रिनिदाद और टोबैगो is the सबसे significant इवेंट on the आइलैंड्स ' सांस्कृतिक  and tourism calendar , with numerous cultural events running in the lead up to the street parade on Carnival Monday and Tuesday .
It is said that if the islanders are not  celebrating it , तब वे हैं तैयारी लिये it , जबकि reminiscing परिचय the  past year 's festival .
the दिल of the musical जश्न रै महरूम कैलिप्सो ; recently सोका रै replaced  calypso as the most celebrated type of music .
Costumes , stickfighting and limbo competitions are also  महत्वपूर्ण components of the पर्व  .
Carnival as it is  मनाये in त्रिनिदाद और टोबैगो is भी मनाये in शहरों  worldwide .
These including Toronto 's Caribana ,  मियामी 's मियामी कार्निवल , ह्यूस्टन carifest , लंदन 's नॉटिंग हिल कार्निवल as खूब as नई  York City 's Labor Day Carnival to name a few .
Carnival was created when West African  स्लेव mimicked उनके फ्रेंच स्वामी जो जहाँ ज्ञात  for their lavish costumes balls .
हराम to partake in ये festivities और confined to उनके quarters , स्लेव  combined elements from their own cultures to their master 's fete .
Hence the creation of characters such as Jab Jab or Jab Molassie ( Devils ) , Midnight Robbers ,  imps , lagahroo , soucouyant , la diablesse और  Demons .
With the abolition  of गुलामी in 1838 , freed africans took उनके संस्करण of कार्निवल to the गलियों through अभिव्यक्ति  of drums , riddim sections like tamboo bamboo and as each new immigrant population entered Trinidad , Carnival evolved into what we know today .
The city of Chicago , Illinois held a nonpartisan mayoral  चुनाव on मंगलवार , फ़रवरी 22 , 2011  .
Incumbent  महापौर रिचर्ड M. डाले , a सदस्य of the लोकतांत्रिक पार्टी जो था महरूम in दफ्तर चूंकि  1989 , did not seek a seventh term as mayor .
Candidates needed to collect 12,500  याचिका हस्ताक्षर by नवम्बर 22 ,  2010 to qualify for a place on the ballot .
April  5 , 2011 थी अनुसूचित to  be a runoff election date if no candidate received an absolute majority .
rahm emanuel जीती the रेस लिये  mayor with more than 55 % of the vote .
He was  उदघाटन on may 16 ,  2011 .
`` उत्तेजित up kicks '' is a सोंग by अमरीकी  indie pop band Foster the People .
It was released as the group 's debut single in September 2010 , and the following year  थी शामिल on उनके ep फोस्टर the लोगों और उनके डेब्यू एल्बम torches  .
`` Pumped Up Kicks ''  became the समूह 's भेदन  hit and was one of the most popular songs of 2011 .
The song was written and recorded by  frontman चिह्नित फोस्टर जबकि he थी working as a वाणिज्यिक  jingle writer .
Contrasting with the upbeat musical composition  , the गीत describe the homicidal  thoughts of a troubled youth .
The track received considerable  ध्यान बाद it थी posted ऑनलाइन in 2010 as a फ़्री डाउनलोड , और it helped the समूह गार्नर a multi-album  record deal with Columbia Records imprint Startime International .
`` Pumped Up Kicks '' proved to be a sleeper hit ; in 2011 , after receiving significant airplay on modern rock stations ,  the सोंग crossed-over onto  contemporary hit radio stations .
The song spent eight consecutive weeks at number three on the Billboard Hot 100 chart  in the संयुक्त राज्य , बनाना it the पहला बिलबोर्ड वैकल्पिक गीतों number-one सिंगल to क्रैक the u.S.  top 5 since Kings of Leon 's `` Use Somebody `` in 2009 .
The  सोंग थी widely praised by आलोचकों ,  and it has been licensed for use in a wide range of popular media since its release .
`` Pumped Up Kicks '' received a Grammy Award  नामांकन लिये बेहतरीन पॉप duo/group प्रदर्शन .
The  राज्य मेला of वेस्ट वर्जिनिया  is an annual state fair for West Virginia .
It is held annually in mid-August on the State Fairgrounds in  fairlea , निकट lewisburg , वेस्ट वर्जिनिया in the  southeastern part of the state .
The State Fairgrounds consists of a large open field for carnivals  और प्रदर्शनियों , a घोड़ा track , grandstands  , and several exhibition buildings .
Free parking is provided  सटा to the fairgrounds और , जबतक 2006 , फ़्री कैंप  was also available in a large field with running-water toilets and showers , but no hookups .
campers हैं अभी चार्ज  a small fee .
the श्वेत हाउस , the अध्यक्ष 's आधिकारिक  residence and center of the administration
Under the United States Constitution , the President of the United  राज्य is the सिर of राज्य और सिर of सरकारी  of the United States .
As chief of the executive branch and head of the federal government as a whole  , the प्रेसिडेंसी is the उच्चतम राजनैतिक दफ्तर in the संयुक्त राज्य  by influence and recognition .
The  अध्यक्ष is भी the commander-in-chief  of the United States Armed Forces .
The president is indirectly elected to a four-year term by an Electoral College ( or by the House of Representatives  चाहिए the चुनावी कॉलेज असफल to पुरस्कार an निरपेक्ष बहुमत  of votes to any person ) .
Since the ratification of the Twenty-second Amendment to the United States  संविधान in 1951 , no व्यक्ति may be निर्वाचित अध्यक्ष अधिक than twice  , and no one who has served more than two years of a term to which someone else was elected may be elected more than once .
Upon the death ,  इस्तीफा , or हटाना इससे दफ्तर of an लाज़िम अध्यक्ष  , the Vice President assumes the office .
The President must be at least 35  सालो of आयु और a `` प्राकृतिक born '' नागरिक  of the United States .
This list includes only those persons who were sworn into office as president following the ratification of  the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान , जिससे took प्रभाव on कूच  4 , 1789 .
For American leaders before  इस अनुसमर्थन , देखिए अध्यक्ष of the महाद्वीपीय  Congress .
the सूची करता नहीं शामिल कोई एक्टिंग राष्ट्रपतियों अंतर्गत the  Twenty-fifth Amendment to the United States Constitution .
There have been 43 people sworn into office , and 44 presidencies , as  ग्रोवर क्लीवलैंड परोसा दो non-consecutive शर्तें और is गिने क्रमबद्धता as दोनो the  22nd and 24th president .
Of the individuals elected as president , four died in  दफ्तर of प्राकृतिक कल्याणकारी ( विलियम हेनरी हैरिसन , zachary टेलर , वारेन G. हार्डिंग , और फ्रैंकलिन D. रूज़वेल्ट  ) , four were assassinated ( Abraham Lincoln , James A. Garfield , William McKinley , and John F. Kennedy ) and one resigned ( Richard Nixon ) .
जार्ज वॉशिंगटन , the पहला अध्यक्ष , थी उदघाटन in 1789 बाद a  unanimous vote of the Electoral College .
William Henry Harrison spent the shortest time in office with 32 days in 1841 ,  और फ्रैंकलिन D. रूज़वेल्ट खर्च the longest साथ over  twelve years , but died shortly into his fourth term in 1945 .
He is the only president to serve more than two  शर्तें , और a संवैधानिक amendment , affecting राष्ट्रपतियों बाद हैरी ट्रूमैन , थी passed to सीमा  the number of times an individual can be elected president .
Andrew Jackson , the seventh president , was the first to be elected by men of all  वर्ग in 1828 बाद सबसे कानून barring non-land-owners इससे  voting were repealed .
Warren Harding was the first elected  बाद महिलाओं gained मतदान अधिकारों in 1920  .
History records four presidents – John Q Adams , Rutherford B. Hayes ,  बेंजामिन हैरिसन और जार्ज W. बुश – जो खोया the लोकप्रिय vote  but assumed office .
John  F. कैनेडी रै महरूम the तभी अध्यक्ष  of Roman Catholic faith , and the current president , Barack Obama , is the first president of African descent .
``  लोम्बार्डी ट्रॉफी '' redirects  here .
For  the पुरस्कार awarded annually to the बेहतरीन  college football lineman or linebacker , see Lombardi Award .
The Vince Lombardi Trophy is the trophy awarded each year to the  जीतना टोली of the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग 's चैंपियनशिप  game , the Super Bowl .
the ट्रॉफी is नामित in सम्मान  of legendary NFL coach Vince Lombardi .
इस is a सूची of टेबल of the सत्यापित oldest  people in the world in ordinal rank , such as oldest person or oldest man .
In these tables , a supercentenarian is considered 'verified ' if his or her  अर्जी रै महरूम validated by an अंतरराष्ट्रीय देह कि specifically सौदे  in longevity research , such as the Gerontology Research Group ( GRG ) or Guinness World Records .
The  longest unambiguously प्रलेखित इंसान जीवनकाल is कि of jeanne calment of  France ( 1875–1997 ) , who died at age 122 years , 164 days .
She met Vincent van  gogh जब वो थी 12  or 13 .
This led to news media  ध्यान in 1985 , बाद  Calment turned 110 .
Subsequent investigation found  दस्तावेज़ीकरण लिये calment 's आयु , परे  any reasonable question , in the records of her native city , Arles , France .
More evidence of Calment 's lifespan has been produced than for  कोई अन्य supercentenarian ; उसके मामला serves as an archetype in the methodology लिये verifying  the ages of the world 's oldest people .
The longest undisputed lifespan for male  supercentenarians is कि of jiroemon किमुरा , जो फिलहाल जीवनदान  in Japan and is age as of .
Since the death of 115-year old Dina Manfredini of the United States , on 17 December 2012 , Kimura , born 19 April 1897 , is the oldest  जीना व्यक्ति in the संसार जिनकी आयु can be प्रलेखित  .
He has also been the oldest  जीना man चूंकि the मौत of 114-year बूढ़ा वाल्टर breuning on 14 अप्रैल  2011 .
Since the death of 115-year old Koto Okubo of Japan on 12 January 2013 , the oldest living woman  रै महरूम -year-old misao okawa , भी इससे जापानी , born on 5  March 1898 .
The People 's Court is an American arbitration-based  वास्तविकता अदालत दिखाएँ , फिलहाल presided over by रिटायर्ड फ्लोरिडा राज्य सर्किट अदालत न्यायधीश मर्लिन milian , in  which small claims disputes are handled .
The People 's Court is the  पहला अदालत दिखाएँ to उपयोग बाइंडिंग मध्यस्थता , introducing  the format into the genre in 1981 .
The system has  महरूम duplicated by सबसे of the दिखाएँ 's  successors in the judicial genre .
Moreover , The  लोगों 's अदालत is the पहला लोकप्रिय , long-running  reality in the judicial genre .
It was preceded only by a few short-lived realities in the  विधा ; ये short-lived पूर्ववर्तियों यहूद तभी loosely सम्बन्धित to न्यायिक कार्यवाही , मगर लिये एक : पैरोल ( 1959 ) took  footage from real-life courtrooms holding legal proceedings .
Prior to The People 's Court  , the विशाल बहुमत of tv courtroom shows प्रयुक्त अभिनेताओं ,  and recreated or fictional cases ( as did radio before that ) .
among उदाहरण of ये प्रकार of अदालत shows शामिल  Famous Jury Trials and Your Witness .
The People  's अदालत रै था दो चिहृ  lives .
The show 's first life was presided over solely by former Los  एंजिल्स काउंटी श्रेष्ठ अदालत न्यायधीश जोसेफ wapner  .
His tenure lasted from the show 's debut on  सितंबर 14 , 1981 , जबतक may 21 , 1993  , when the show was cancelled due to low ratings .
This left the show with a total of 2,484  1⁄2-hour एपीसोड और 12 सीज़न  .
The show was  taped in लॉस एंजिल्स दौरान इसके पहला  life .
After  होने रद्द , reruns aired जबतक  September 9 , 1994 .
On September 8 , 1997 , after being out of production for four  सालो , the लोगों 's अदालत थी revived लिये a दूसरी जीवन in first-run अनुप्रयोग as  a 60-minute program .
Former lawyer and Mayor of New York Ed Koch was chosen as arbiter , which he maintained for 2 seasons from the 1997–98  ऋतु through the 1998–99 ऋतु ( the उपस्थित जीवन 's 2nd ऋतु और overall दिखाएँ 's 14th )  .
By the 1999–00 season , husband of Judith Sheindlin ( who presides over Judge  जुडी ) और पूर्व नई यॉर्क राज्य परम् अदालत न्यायधीश  Jerry Sheindlin succeeded Koch .
Sheindlin lasted one and a half seasons as he was  replaced towards the समाप्त of the 2000–01 ऋतु ( उपस्थित  life 's 4th season and overall show 's 17th ) .
Beginning in spring 2001 , Florida judge Marilyn Milian  took over the लोगों 's अदालत और रै presided over the दिखाएँ कभी  since .
Once Milian  completes the 2012–13 ऋतु , वो होगा have परोसा as longest arbiter over the  series with 12 and a half seasons .
As of the  उपस्थित , however  , her years on the program tie Wapner at 12 seasons .
In the 2009-10 television season , The People 's Courts  2nd/present जीवन outlasted इसके पहला जब it पहुँचे 13  seasons .
While the show taped in New York City for  the पहला 15 सीज़न of इसके दूसरी जीवन , it अभी टेपों in stamford  , Connecticut as of the 2012-13 season .
On September 3 , 2012 , The People 's  अदालत 's 2nd/present जीवन डाला इसके 16th ऋतु ( 28th  overall season ) .
साथ 28 कुल सीज़न , the लोगों 's अदालत बाँधने as the 2nd longest-running courtroom  program behind the ongoing Divorce Court at 33 seasons ( from its 3 combined lives ) .
Utah ( or ) ( Arapaho :  wo'tééneihí ' ) is a राज्य in the पश्चिमी  United States .
It  became the 45th राज्य admitted to the  Union on January 4 , 1896 .
Utah is the 13th-largest , the 34th-most populous , and  the 10th-least-densely आबादी of the 50 संयुक्त राज्य  .
लगभग 80 % of यूटा 's 2,817,222 लोगों सजीव साथ the wasatch सामने , centering on नमक झील नगर , leaving विशाल expanses of the राज्य nearly uninhabited और बनाना the जनसांख्यिकी the छठे सबसे urbanized in the u.S.  Utah is bordered by Colorado on the east , Wyoming on the northeast , Idaho on the north , Arizona on the south , and Nevada on the west .
It also touches a  कोने of नई मैक्सिको on the  southeast .
Utah is  the सबसे religiously समरूप  state in the Union .
Approximately 63 % of Utahns are reported to be members of The Church of Jesus Christ of  latter-day संतो or lds ( mormons ) , जिससे greatly प्रभाव यूटा संस्कृति और रोज़ जीवन  .
The  संसार मुख्यालय of the गिरिजाघर of यीशु मसीह of latter-day  Saints ( LDS Church ) is located in Utah 's state capital .
The state is a center of transportation , education , information  प्रौद्योगिकी और शोध , सरकारी सेवाएं , खनन , और a प्रमुख पर्यटक गंतव्य लिये  outdoor recreation .
According to the U.S. Census Bureau 's population estimates , Utah is  the पांचवां fastest-growing राज्य in the संयुक्त राज्य as of 2012  .
St. George , was the fastest–growing  महानगर क्षेत्रफल in the संयुक्त राज्य इससे 2000  to 2005 .
A 2012 Gallup national survey found Utah overall to be the `` best state to live in '' based on 13  forward-looking माप सहित विभिन्न आर्थिक ,  lifestyle , and health-related outlook metrics .
Coldwater is a  छोटी कस्बा in टेट काउंटी  , Mississippi .
It is  in the मेम्फिस महानगर  Area .
The population was  1,674 at the 2000 जनसांख्यिकी  .
The hard palate is a thin  आड़ा बोनी थाली of the कपाल  , located in the roof of the mouth .
it spans the मेहराब formed  by the upper teeth .
It is formed by the palatine process of the  maxilla और आड़ा थाली of palatine अस्थि  .
it फ़ॉर्म a विभाजन  between the nasal passages and the mouth .
Also on the anterior portion of the roof of the hard palate is the Rugae which are  the irregular ridges in the श्लेष्मक झिल्ली कि सहायता सुकर the  movement of food backwards towards the pharynx .
This partition is continued  deeper into the मुँह by a मांसल  extension called the soft palate .
पूरा नियत of scrolls , constituting  the entire Tanakh .
The  tanakh ( , or ; भी tenakh , tenak , tanach ) is a नाम  used in Judaism for the canon of the Hebrew Bible .
the tanakh is भी ज्ञात as  the Masoretic Text or the Miqra .
The name is an acronym formed from the initial Hebrew letters of the Masoretic Text 's three traditional  subdivisions : the तोरा ( `` शिक्षण '' , भी ज्ञात as the पाँच किताबे of मूसा ) , nevi'im ( `` नबियों '' ) और ketuvim  ( `` Writings '' ) —hence TaNaKh .
The name `` Miqra '' ( מקרא ) , meaning `` that which is read ''  , is an वैकल्पिक यहूदी पद लिये the tanakh .
The books of the  tanakh यहूद relayed साथ an accompanying मौखिक परंपरा passed  on by each generation , called the Oral Torah .
गम्भीरता नाका in  Germany
Driving under the influence ( DUI ) , driving while intoxicated ( DWI ) , drunken driving , drunk driving , drink driving , operating under the influence , drinking  और ड्राइविंग , or impaired ड्राइविंग is the अपराधों of ड्राइविंग a मोटर गाडी साथ रक्त स्तर of दारू in excess of a विधिक सीमा ( `` रक्त दारू सामग्री '' , or `` bac  '' ) .
Similar regulations  कवर ड्राइविंग or ऑपरेटिंग निश्चित प्रकार of मशीनरी जबकि प्रभावित by पीने दारू or लेने  other drugs , including , but not limited to prescription drugs .
इस is a दण्ड  offense in most nations .
Convictions do not necessarily involve  वास्तविक ड्राइविंग of the गाडी .
In most jurisdictions a  मापन ऐसे as a रक्त दारू सामग्री ( bac ) in excess of a विशिष्ट दहलीज स्तर , ऐसे  as 0.05 % or 0.08 % defines the offense , with no need to prove impairment or being under the influence of alcohol .
In some jurisdictions , there is  an क्रोधित श्रेणी of the ठोकर  at a higher level e.g . 0.12 % .
In most countries , anyone who is convicted of injuring or killing someone  जबकि अंतर्गत the influence of दारू or दवाएँ can be heavily fined , as in फ़्रांस , in जोड to होने दिए a  lengthy prison sentence .
कुछ कार्य have उनके अपना नियम और bac हद , लिये उदाहरण वाणिज्यिक पायलट , और  the Federal Railroad Administration in the United States has a 0.04 % limit for train crew .
Some  jurisdictions have अनेक स्तर of bac ; लिये उदाहरण , the राज्य of कैलिफ़ोर्निया रै  a 0.08 % BAC limit , which is lowered to 0.04 % if the operator holds a commercial driver 's license .
The California BAC limit is 0.01 % for those younger  than 21 सालो of आयु और those on परिवीक्षा लिये a  previous DUI conviction .
Some large corporations have their own rules ; Union Pacific  रेलरोड रै उनके अपना bac सीमा of 0.02 % कि , if violated दौरान a यादृच्छिक परीक्षण or a for-cause परीक्षण — लिये उदाहरण , बाद a ट्रैफ़िक दुर्घटना — can परिणाम  in termination of employment with no chance of future re-hire .
Many states in the U.S. and provinces in Canada have adopted truth in  sentencing कानून कि enforce सख्त दिशानिर्देश on sentencing , differing इससे पिछला अभ्यास जहाँ थाना  time was reduced or suspended after sentencing had been issued .
Some jurisdictions have  न्यायिक दिशानिर्देश requiring a अनिवार्य  minimum sentence .
Penalties for DUI charges range from expensive  शुल्क to forfetiruree of अपना अनुज्ञा प्लेटों और in कुछ  serious circumstances , your vehicle .
A  नशे ड्राइविंग  simulator in Montréal , Canada
The specific criminal offense may be  पुकारा , depending on the क्षेत्राधिकार , ड्राइविंग अंतर्गत the influence [ of दारू or अन्य दवाएँ ] ( dui ) , ड्राइविंग अंतर्गत तीव्र influence ( duii ) , ड्राइविंग  while intoxicated ( DWI ) , operating under the influence ( OUI ) operating while intoxicated ( OWI ) , operating a motor vehicle while intoxicated ( OMVI ) , driving under the combined influence of alcohol and/or other drugs , driving under the influence per se or drunk in charge [ of a vehicle ] .
Many such laws apply also to motorcycling , boating , piloting aircraft , use of motile farm equipment such as tractors and combines ,  सवारी घोड़े or ड्राइविंग a horse-drawn गाडी , or bicycling , संभवतः साथ  different BAC level than driving .
In some jurisdictions there are separate charges depending on the vehicle used , such as  bwi ( bicycling जबकि intoxicated ) , जिससे may carry a हल्का  sentence .
in the संयुक्त राज्य , लोकल विधि प्रवर्तन एजेंसियों बना 1,467,300 रखवाले देशभर  for driving under the influence of alcohol in 1996 , compared to 1.9 million such arrests during the peak year in 1983 .
In 1997 an estimated 513,200 DWI offenders were in prison or  कारावास , bas इससे 593,000 in 1990 और up इससे 270,100 in  1986 .
Officers from US Customs  और किनारा सुरक्षा बोर्डिंग  a ship
Law  प्रवर्तन in the संयुक्त राज्य is एक of तीन प्रमुख components of the दण्ड इंसाफ प्रणाली of the संयुक्त  States , along with courts and corrections .
हालांकि वहीँ exists an अंतर्निहित interrelatedness between the अलग समूह कि  make up the criminal justice system based on their crime deterrence purpose , each component operates independently from one another .
However , the judiciary is vested with the power to make legal  determinations regarding the conduct of the अन्य दो components  .
Apart from maintaining order and service functions  , the purpose of policing is the छानबीन of suspected दण्ड कार्यकलाप और the referral of the परिणाम of investigations और of  suspected criminals to the courts .
Law enforcement , to  varying डिग्री at अलग स्तर of सरकारी और in अलग एजेंसियों , is भी commonly चार्ज साथ the जिम्मेदारियों of deterring दण्ड  activity and of preventing the successful commission of crimes in progress ; the service and enforcement of warrants , writs and other orders of the courts .
Law enforcement agencies are also involved in providing first response to emergencies and other threats to public safety ; the protection of certain public facilities and infrastructure  ; the मेंटेनेंस of पब्लिक अनुक्रम ; the सुरक्षा of पब्लिक officials ; और the आपरेशन of कुछ correctional सुविधाएं  ( usually at the local level ) .
Elmer Figueroa Arce (  born जून 28 , 1968 ) , बेहतरीन ज्ञात अंतर्गत the स्टेज नाम chayanne  , is a Puerto Rican Latin pop singer and actor .
As a solo artist ,  chayanne रै released  21 solo albums and sold over 15 million albums worldwide .
``  संसार युद्ध हल्क '' is a कॉमिक किताब क्रॉसओवर कथानक कि भागा through a स्वः titled सीमित  series and various other titles published by Marvel Comics in 2007 , featuring the Hulk .
The series consists of five main issues titled World War Hulk , with Greg Pak as writer and John Romita , Jr. as penciller , and  तीन अन्य सीमित श्रेणी : संसार युद्ध हल्क : सामने लकीर , संसार युद्ध हल्क : गामा corps , और संसार युद्ध हल्क :  X-Men .
It also ran through  अनेक अन्य आश्चर्य कॉमिक्स  series .
The plot is the culmination of a series of events that began with the Hulk being tricked into  स्पेस by the illuminati और a जीवन मॉडल decoy of उपनाम फ़्यूरी , the हल्क 's subsequent निर्वासन  seen in Planet Hulk and his imminent return to Earth to seek revenge on the Illuminati .
Marion Mitchell Morrison ( born Marion Robert Morrison ; May 26 , 1907 – June 11 , 1979 ) , better known by  उसके स्टेज नाम जॉन वेन , थी  an American film actor , director and producer .
An Academy Award -winner ,  वेन थी among the शीर्ष बक्सा दफ्तर draws लिये तीन  decades , and was named the all-time top money-making star .
An enduring American icon , he epitomized  खुरदरा मर्दानगी और is प्रसिद्ध लिये उसके demeanor , सहित  his distinctive calm voice , walk , and height .
Wayne was born in Winterset ,  आयोवा लकिन उसके परिवार relocated to the वृहद  Los Angeles area when he was four years old .
He found work at local  फिल्मी studios जब he खोया उसके फ़ुटबॉल स्कॉलरशिप  to USC as a result of a bodysurfing accident .
Initially working for the Fox Film Corporation ,  he ज़्यादातर appeared in छोटी बिट भाग  .
उसके पहला अग्रणी भूमिका आए in the वाइडस्क्रीन एपिक the बिग ट्रेल ( 1930 ) , जिससे led  to leading roles in numerous films throughout the 1930s , many of them in the western genre .
His career rose to  further हाइट्स in 1939 , साथ जॉन घाट 's stagecoach  making him an instant superstar .
Wayne would go on to star in 142 pictures , primarily  typecast in पश्चिमी  films .
Among his best known later films are The Quiet Man ( 1952 ) , which follows him as an  irish-american boxer और उसके प्रेम affair साथ a fiery spinster निभाई by maureen o'hara ; the searchers ( 1956 ) , in जिससे he plays a सिविल युद्ध दिग्गज जो seeks आउट उसके abducted भांजी ; रिओ ब्रावो ( 1959 ) , playing a शेरिफ  with Dean Martin ; True Grit ( 1969 ) , playing a humorous U.S . Marshal who sets out to avenge a man 's death in the role that won Wayne an Academy Award ; and The Shootist ( 1976 ) , his final screen performance in which he plays an aging gunslinger battling cancer .
Wayne moved to Orange County  , कैलिफ़ोर्निया in the 1960s , और थी a prominent रिपब्लिकन in हॉलीवुड  , supporting anti-communist positions .
He  died of पेट कर्कट  in 1979 .
In June 1999 , the American Film Institute  नामित वेन 13th among the महानतम पुरूष स्क्रीन  Legends of All Time .
Galileo Galilei ( ; 15 February  1564 – 8 जनवरी 1642 ) , थी an इतालवी physicist , गणितज्ञ , astronomer , और पारस जो निभाई a प्रमुख भूमिका  in the Scientific Revolution .
His achievements include improvements to the  दूरदर्शी और consequent खगोलीय observations  and support for Copernicanism .
Galileo has been called the `` father of modern observational astronomy  `` , the `` पिता of आधुनिक भौतिकी `` , the `` पिता of विज्ञान '' , और `` the पिता  of Modern Science '' .
His contributions to observational astronomy include the telescopic  पुष्टि of the phases of शुक्र , the डिस्कवरी of the चार largest satellites of बृहस्पति ( नामित the galilean moons in उसके  honour ) , and the observation and analysis of sunspots .
Galileo also worked  in लागू विज्ञान और प्रौद्योगिकी , inventing  an improved military compass and other instruments .
Galileo 's  championing of heliocentrism थी विवादास्पद भीतर उसके आजीवन , जब सबसे  subscribed to either geocentrism or the Tychonic system .
He met with opposition from astronomers , who  doubted heliocentrism due to the अनुपस्थिति of an observed  stellar parallax .
The matter was investigated by the Roman Inquisition in 1615  , और वे concluded कि it could be समर्थित as तभी a सम्भावना  , not an established fact .
Galileo later defended his views in  संवाद concerning the दो मुख्य संसार प्रणालियों , जिससे appeared to आक्रमण पोप शहरी viii और यूँ alienated उसे और the jesuits  , who had both supported Galileo up until this point .
he थी आजमाया by the inquisition , मिला `` ओजस्वी suspect of heresy ''  , forced to recant , and spent the rest of his life under house arrest .
It was while Galileo was under house arrest that he wrote one of his  finest works , दो नई sciences , in जिससे he summarised the कार्य he था किया कुछ चालीस सालो पहले ,  on the two sciences now called kinematics and strength of materials .
55 ''  lg oled tv showcased at  CES 2012
प्रोटोटाइप oled lighting फलक  developed by Lumiotec
Demonstration  of a लचीली oled  device
An OLED ( organic light-emitting diode ) is a light-emitting diode ( LED ) in which the emissive  electroluminescent परत is a फिल्मी of सशुल्क यौगिक जिससे emits लाइट in  response to an electric current .
This  परत of सशुल्क सेमीकंडक्टर  is situated between two electrodes .
Generally , at  तनिक एक of ये electrodes  is transparent .
oleds हैं प्रयुक्त to बनाएँ डिजिटल प्रदर्शक in डिवाइस ऐसे as टेलीविज़न screens , कंप्यूटर  monitors , portable systems such as mobile phones , handheld games consoles and PDAs .
A major area of research is the  विकास of श्वेत oled डिवाइस लिये उपयोग in solid-state  lighting applications .
There are two  प्रमुख परिवारों of oleds : those आधारित on छोटी अणुओं और those  employing polymers .
Adding mobile ions to an OLED creates a light-emitting  electrochemical कोशिका or लैक , जिससे रै  a slightly different mode of operation .
OLED displays  can उपयोग either passive-matrix (  PMOLED ) or active-matrix addressing schemes .
Active-matrix OLEDs ( AMOLED ) require a  thin-film ट्रांजिस्टर backplane to स्विच प्रत्येक व्यक्तिगत  pixel on or off , but allow for higher resolution and larger display sizes .
An OLED display works  बगैर a backlight  .
Thus , it can display deep black levels and  can be thinner और हल्का than a द्रव क्रिस्टल  display ( LCD ) .
In low ambient light conditions such as a dark room an OLED screen can  achieve a उच्चतर कंट्रास्ट अनुपात than an एलसीडी , whether the एलसीडी उपयोग ठंडा कैथोड  fluorescent lamps or LED backlight .
A carton  और a कांच of eggnog इससे मॉन्ट्रियल , कनाडा , प्रर्दशित इसके फ्रेंच मुखाग्र ( अंग्रेज़ी रिवर्स ) और the  French term lait de poule ( literally , `` hen 's milk '' )
Eggnog , or egg nog , is a sweetened dairy -based beverage  traditionally बना साथ मिल्क and/or मलाई , शुगर , और whipped अंडे  ( which gives it a frothy texture ) .
Brandy , rum , whisky , bourbon , vodka , or a combination  of liquors हैं प्रायः added  .
The finished serving is often garnished  साथ a sprinkling of मैदान दालचीनी or जायफल  .
It was also known  as the अंडा मिल्क  punch .
Eggnog is a popular drink throughout  the संयुक्त राज्य और कनाडा , और is प्रायः संबद्ध  with Christmas .
Eggnog may be  added as a flavoring  to food or drinks such as coffee and tea .
Eggnog as a custard can  भी be प्रयुक्त as an बर्फ  cream base .
A pasty ( , ) , ( sometimes known in Britain as a Cornish pasty , and in the United States as a pastie or  अंग्रेजों pasty ) is a baked पेस्ट्री , a परंपरागत किस्में of जिससे is विशेषकर संबद्ध साथ कॉर्नवॉल , the westernmost  county in England .
It is made by placing uncooked filling typically of meat and vegetables , without meat in vegetarian  संस्करण , on a चपटा पेस्ट्री वृत्त और फोल्डिंग it to रैप the भरना , crimping  the edge to form a seal .
After baking , the result is a  उठाया semicircular  comestible .
The traditional Cornish pasty , which has Protected Geographical  indication ( pgi ) औकात in यूरोपीय , is भर साथ बीफ , sliced or diced आलू , swede ( भी ज्ञात as a पीला शलजम or rutabaga – referred to in कॉर्नवॉल as शलजम ) और प्याज  , seasoned with salt and pepper , and is baked .
Today , the pasty is the food most  संबद्ध साथ कॉर्नवॉल , it is regarded as the नेशनल डिश , और  it accounts for 6 % of the Cornish food economy .
Pasties with  अनेक अलग fillings हैं बना ; कुछ दुकानें specialise in selling  all sorts of pasties .
The origins of the pasty are  unclear , हालांकि वहीँ हैं अनेक सन्दर्भ to उन्हें throughout  historical documents and fiction .
The pasty is now popular world-wide due to the spread  of cornish खनिक , और विसंगतियाँ can be मिला in ऑस्ट्रेलिया , the संयुक्त राज्य , मैक्सिको  and elsewhere .
The ( ortho- )  सहानुभूतिपूर्ण बेचैन प्रणाली ( sns ) is एक of तीन प्रमुख भाग of the autonomic बेचैन प्रणाली : the अन्य होने the  enteric and parasympathetic systems .
Its general action is to mobilize the body 's nervous system  fight-or-flight जवाब  .
It is ,  however , constantly क्रियाशील at a मौलिक  level to maintain homeostasis .
Secure Digital or ( SD ) is a non-volatile memory card format for use in portable devices , such  as मोबाईल फोन , डिजिटल कैमरे  , GPS navigation devices , and tablet computers .
The Secure Digital  मानक is कायम by the sd कार्ड संघ  ( SDA ) .
SD technologies have been implemented in more than 400 brands  आरपार दर्जनों of उत्पाद श्रेणी और अधिक  than 8,000 models .
The Secure Digital format  शामिल चार कार्ड परिवारों उपलब्धियाँ in तीन  different form factors .
The four families are the original  standard-capacity ( sdsc ) , the high-capacity ( sdhc ) , the extended-capacity (  SDXC ) , and the SDIO , which combines input/output functions with data storage .
The three form factors are the original size , the ``  मिनी '' आकार , और the `` सूक्ष्म '' आकार ( देखिए उदाहरण  ) .
There are many combinations  of रूप कारकों और यंत्र परिवारों  .
electrically passive adapters allow the उपयोग of a छोटी कार्ड  in a host device built to hold a larger card .
Host devices that comply with newer versions of the  specification provide पिछड़ा संगतता और accept पुरानी sd ताश ,  but this article explains several factors that can prevent the use of a newer SD card:
A newer card may offer  वृहद क्षमता than the मेजबान यंत्र  can handle .
A newer card may  उपयोग a संचिका प्रणाली the मेजबान यंत्र  can not navigate .
Use of an SDIO card requires  the मेजबान यंत्र be designed लिये the input/output  functions the card provides .
The  संगठन of the कार्ड थी बदला starting साथ  the SDHC family .
Some  विक्रेता उत्पादित sdsc ताश ऊपर 1 gb पहले the sda था  standardized a method of doing so .
The SDA uses several trademarked logos to  enforce अनुपालन साथ इसके विशेषताएँ और assure  users of compatibility .
The following  is a सूची of आलोचकों  of the New Deal .
Daniel Lawrence Whitney (  born फ़रवरी 17 , 1963 ) बेहतरीन ज्ञात by उसके स्टेज नाम और अक्षर लैरी the केबल guy , is  an American stand-up comedian , actor , country music artist , voice actor , and former radio personality .
He was one of the members of the Blue Collar Comedy Tour , a comedy troupe which included Bill Engvall , Ron  श्वेत , और जेफ़ foxworthy ( साथ जिसको he रै स्ट्रक्चर on ब्लू कॉलर tv  ) .
Whitney has  released सात कॉमेडी एल्बम , of जिससे तीन have महरूम  certified gold by the RIAA for shipments of 500,000 copies .
In addition , he has starred in three Blue Collar Comedy Tour-related movies , as well as in the films  लैरी the केबल guy : स्वास्थ्य इंस्पेक्टर , डेल्टा तमाशा , और witless सुरक्षा , as खूब as voicing  Mater in the Cars franchise .
Whitney 's catchphrase : ``  git-r-done ! '' is भी the शीर्षक  of his book .
On January 26 , 2010 , the TV channel History announced that it was ordering a series starring Whitney called Only in America with Larry  the केबल guy , in जिससे he होता explore the देश और immerse खुद in अलग  lifestyles , jobs , and hobbies .
The first episode  of the श्रेणी aired on फ़रवरी 8 ,  2011 .
Vitamin D is a group of fat-soluble secosteroids responsible for intestinal  अवशोषण of कैल्सियम और  phosphate .
In humans , the most  महत्वपूर्ण सम्बन्धित यौगिकों of विटामिन d हैं  vitamin D2 and vitamin D3 .
Cholecalciferol ( vitamin D3 ) and ergocalciferol ( vitamin D2 )  हैं अद्वितीय as वे constitute कया we जान as विटामिन d और can  be ingested from the diet and/or supplements .
The body can also  synthesize विटामिन d ( इससे कोलेस्ट्रॉल ) जब सूर्य एक्सपोज़र is पर्याप्त (  hence its nickname , the `` sunshine vitamin '' ) .
Although vitamin D is commonly called a vitamin , it is not actually an  अनिवार्य dietary विटामिन in the सख्त भाव , as it can be synthesized in पर्याप्त  amounts by most mammals exposed to sunlight .
( Cats and dogs can not synthesize  विटामिन d efficiently और जरूर प्राप्त it in  their diet . )
An organic chemical compound ( or related set of  यौगिकों ) is तभी scientifically पुकारा a विटामिन जब it can नहीं be synthesized in sufficient  quantities by an organism , and must be obtained from their diet .
However , as with other compounds commonly called vitamins ,  विटामिन d थी खोजा in an प्रयत्न to ढूँढें the dietary पदार्थ कि थी lacking in a बीमारी , namely , rickets , the  childhood form of osteomalacia .
Additionally ,  जैसे अन्य यौगिकों पुकारा विटामिन , in the विकसित संसार विटामिन d is added  to staple foods , such as milk , to avoid disease due to deficiency .
Measures of serum levels reflect endogenous synthesis from  एक्सपोज़र to धूप as खूब as सेवन इससे the आहार , और it is believed कि संश्लेषण may योगदान  generally to the maintenance of adequate serum concentrations .
The evidence indicates that the synthesis of vitamin D from sun exposure works in a feedback loop that prevents toxicity but , because of uncertainty about the cancer risk from  धूप , no सुझाव हैं जारी by the संस्थान of आयुर्विज्ञान  , USA , for the amount of sun exposure required to meet vitamin D requirements .
Accordingly , the Dietary Reference  intakes लिये विटामिन d assume कि no संश्लेषण occurs और कि सब of a व्यक्ति 's विटामिन  D is from their diet , although that will rarely occur in practice .
In the liver vitamin D is converted to calcidiol , which is also known as calcifediol ( INN ) , 25-hydroxycholecalciferol ,  or 25-hydroxyvitamin d—abbreviated 25 ( oh ) d ; और जिससे is the विशिष्ट विटामिन d metabolite कि is measured in सीरम  to determine a person 's vitamin D status .
Part of the calcidiol is converted by the kidneys to calcitriol , the biologically active form of vitamin D. Calcitriol circulates as a hormone in the blood ,  regulating the विशेषज्ञता of कैल्सियम और फास्फेट in the bloodstream और promoting the स्वस्थ  growth and remodeling of bone .
Calcidiol is also converted to calcitriol  बाहर of the गुर्दे लिये अन्य उद्देश्य  , such as the proliferation , differentiation and apoptosis of cells ; calcitriol also affects neuromuscular function and inflammation .
Beyond its use to prevent osteomalacia or rickets , the evidence  लिये अन्य स्वास्थ्य प्रभाव of विटामिन d supplementation in the सामान्य जनसांख्यिकी  is inconsistent .
The best evidence of  लाभ is लिये अस्थि स्वास्थ्य और a घटी in मृत्यु  in elderly women .
मानक रूप of the  periodic table .
The colors represent  अलग श्रेणी of तत्व समझाया नीचे  .
The periodic table is a tabular display of the chemical elements ,  व्यवस्थित on the आधार of उनके परमाणु संख्याएँ , इलेक्ट्रॉन configurations , और पुनरावर्ती  chemical properties .
Elements are  प्रस्तुत in अनुक्रम of increasing परमाणु  number ( number of protons ) .
The standard form of  तालिका comprises an 18 × 7 ग्रिड or प्रमुख देह of तत्व , positioned  above a smaller double row of elements .
The  तालिका can भी be deconstructed into चार आयताकार ब्लॉक : the s-block to the बाएँ , the p-block to the सही , the d-block  in the middle , and the f-block below that .
The rows of the table are called periods ; the columns of the s- ,  d- , और p-blocks हैं पुकारा समूह , साथ कुछ of ये having names ऐसे as  the halogens or the noble gases .
चूंकि , by परिभाषा , a आवधिक तालिका incorporates पुनरावर्ती रुझान , कोई ऐसे तालिका  can be used to derive relationships between the properties of the elements and predict the properties of new , yet to be discovered or synthesized , elements .
As a  परिणाम , a आवधिक table—whether in the मानक रूप or कुछ अन्य variant—provides a उपयोगी फ्रेमवर्क  for analyzing chemical behavior , and such tables are widely used in chemistry and other sciences .
Although precursors exist , Dmitri  mendeleev is generally credited साथ the प्रकाशन , in 1869 , of the पहला widely  recognized periodic table .
He  विकसित उसके तालिका to illustrate आवधिक  trends in the properties of the then-known elements .
Mendeleev also predicted some  गुण of then-unknown तत्व कि होता be अपेक्षित to भरण  gaps in this table .
Most of his predictions were proved correct when  the तत्व in सवाल यहूद subsequently खोजा .
Mendeleev 's periodic table has since been expanded and refined with the discovery or synthesis of further new  तत्व और the विकास of नई सैद्धांतिक मॉडल to बताइये रासायनिक बर्ताव  .
All elements  इससे परमाणु संख्याएँ 1 ( हाइड्रोजन ) to 118 ( ununoctium  ) have been discovered or synthesized .
The elements from 1 to  98 ( californium ) have महरूम मिला to मौजूद naturally , हालांकि  some are found only in trace amounts and were initially discovered by synthesis in laboratories .
The elements after 98 have only  महरूम synthesized in laboratories  .
Production of elements beyond ununoctium is being pursued , with  the सवाल of कैसा the आवधिक तालिका may need to be परिवर्धित to accommodate कोई ऐसे  additions being a matter of ongoing debate .
Numerous synthetic  radionuclides of naturally occurring  elements have also been produced in laboratories .
Minimum wage by U.S.  राज्य और u.S. territory ( अमरीकी समोआ , गुआम ,  Puerto Rico , Virgin Islands ) , as of Jan. 1 , 2013 .
in the संयुक्त राज्य , मजदूर हैं  generally entitled to be paid no less than the statutory minimum wage .
The federal government mandates a nationwide minimum wage level of $ 7.25 per  घंटा , जबकि कुछ राज्य और municipalities have नियत न्यूनतम मजदूरी स्तर उच्चतर than the संघीय स्तर , साथ the उच्चतम  state minimum wage being $ 9.19 per hour in Washington as of 2013 .
Among those paid by the hour in 2012 , 1.6  लाख यहूद reported as कमाई exactly  the prevailing federal minimum wage .
परिचय 2.0 लाख यहूद reported  as earning wages below the minimum .
Together , these 3.6 million workers with wages at or  नीचे the न्यूनतम बना up 4.7 प्रतिशत of सब hourly-paid मजदूर  .
A selection of  bourbons और टेनेसी whiskeys offered  at a liquor store in Decatur , Georgia
Evan  विलियम्स bourbon  whiskey
Bourbon whiskey is a type of American whiskey –  a barrel-aged आसुत स्पिरिट बना primarily  from corn .
The name of the spirit derives from its historical  संघ साथ an क्षेत्रफल ज्ञात as बूढ़ा bourbon , around कया is अभी bourbon काउंटी , केंटकी ( जिससे , in  turn , was named after the French House of Bourbon royal family ) .
It has been produced  चूंकि the 18th सदी  .
While it may be made anywhere in the United States , it is strongly associated with the  अमरीकी दक्षिण in सामान्य , और केंटकी  in particular .
The Mona Lisa ( La Gioconda or La Joconde ) is a half-length portrait of a woman by the Italian artist Leonardo da Vinci , which has been acclaimed as `` the best known  , the सबसे visited , the सबसे लिखा परिचय , the सबसे सुंग परिचय , the सबसे parodied कार्य of आर्ट in the  world . ''
The painting , thought to be a  पोर्ट्रेट of लिसा gherardini , the बीवी of francesco डेल giocondo , is in आयल  on a poplar panel , and is believed to have been painted between 1503 and 1506 .
It was acquired by King Francis I of  फ़्रांस और is अभी the प्रॉपर्टी of the फ्रेंच गणतंत्र , on स्थाई  display at the Musée du Louvre in Paris since 1797 .
The ambiguity of the subject 's expression , which is frequently described as enigmatic , the monumentality  of the संयोजन , the हल्का मॉडलिंग of फ़ॉर्म और the वायुमंडलीय illusionism यहूद अनोखा qualities कि have contributed to the continuing  fascination and study of the work .
Robert  एलन पामर ( 19 जनवरी 1949 – 26  September 2003 ) , was an English singer-songwriter and musician .
He was known for his distinctive voice and  the eclectic मिक्सर of musical शैलियाँ on उसके एल्बम , combining आत्मा  , jazz , rock , pop , reggae and blues .
He found success both in his solo career and in  the musical अधिनियम the शक्ति स्टेशन , और था शीर्ष 10 गीतों in दोनो the  UK and the US .
उसके iconic म्यूज़िक वीडियो by टेरेंस डोनोवन लिये the हिट्स `` आदी to प्रेम `` और `` बस irresistible ``  featured identically dressed dancing women with pale faces , dark eye makeup and bright red lipstick , which resembled the women in the art of Patrick Nagel , an artist popular in the 1980s .
Sharp-suited , his involvement in  the म्यूज़िक उद्योग commenced in the 1960s , covered  five decades and included a spell with Vinegar Joe .
Palmer received a number of awards throughout his  करियर , सहित दो ग्रैमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन पुरूष चट्टान गायन प्रदर्शन , an एमटीवी वीडियो म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार , और थी twice मनोनीत लिये the ब्रिट  Award for Best British Male .
Computed tomography angiography ( CTA )  is a computed टोमोग्राफी तकनीक प्रयुक्त to visualize arterial  and venous vessels throughout the body .
This ranges from arteries serving the brain to those bringing blood  to the फेफड़े , गुर्दे , बाहें और  legs .
The Champs-Élysées  सजा साथ ध्वज लिये bastille  Day
horseman of the फ्रेंच रिपब्लिकन गार्ड दौरान the 2007  military parade on the Champs-Élysées .
Prise de la  bastille by jean-pierre-louis-laurent  Houel
Bastille Day is the name given in English-speaking countries to the French  नेशनल दिन , जिससे is मनाये on  the 14th of July each year .
in फ़्रांस , it is formally पुकारा la fête nationale ( ; the नेशनल  Celebration ) and commonly Le quatorze juillet ( ; the fourteenth of July ) .
It commemorates the 1790 Fête de la Fédération , held on the first anniversary of the storming of the Bastille on 14 July 1789 ; the  वर्षगांठ of the storming of the bastille fortress-prison थी देखी as a प्रतीक of the uprising of the आधुनिक स्वदेश , और of the reconciliation of सब the फ्रेंच अंदर  the constitutional monarchy which preceded the First Republic , during the French Revolution .
Festivities and official  ceremonies हैं आयोजित सब over फ़्रांस .
The oldest and largest regular military parade in Europe is held on the morning of 14 July , on the Champs-Élysées  एवेन्यू in पेरिस in सामने of the अध्यक्ष of the गणतंत्र , फ्रेंच officials और विदेशी अतिथि  .
The United States of America ( USA or U.S.A. ) , commonly called the United States ( US or U.S. )  or अमेरिका , is a संघीय गणतंत्र consisting of पचास राज्य और a संघीय  district .
The lower forty-eight contiguous states and the federal  ज़िला of वॉशिंगटन , d.C. हैं in सेंट्रल उत्तर  America between Canada and Mexico .
The state of Alaska is west of Canada and east of Russia across the  बेरिंग जलसन्धि , और the राज्य of हवाई is in the mid-north प्रशांत  .
The  देश भी रै पाँच आबादी और नौ unpopulated  territories in the Pacific and the Caribbean .
At 3.79 million square miles (  9.83 लाख km2 ) और साथ around 315 लाख लोगों , the संयुक्त राज्य is the third- or  fourth-largest country by total area and the third-largest by both land area and population .
It is one of the world 's most  ethnically विविध और multicultural राष्ट्र , the उत्पाद of  large-scale immigration from many countries .
the भूगोल और जलवायु of the u.S. is भी अत्यधिक विविध , साथ रेगिस्तान  , plains , forests , and mountains that are home to a wide variety of species .
Paleoindians migrated  इससे एशिया to कया is अभी the संयुक्त राज्य मेनलैंड around  15,000 years ago .
After 1500 , Old  संसार रोगों introduced by europeans greatly  reduced their populations .
European colonization  began around 1600 और आए ज़्यादातर इससे इंग्लैण्ड  .
The United States emerged  इससे तेरह अंग्रेजों colonies स्तिथ साथ the  Atlantic seaboard .
Disputes between Great Britain and the  अमरीकी colonies led to the अमरीकी क्रान्ति  .
On July 4 , 1776 , delegates from the 13 colonies  unanimously जारी the घोषणा of स्वतंत्रता , जिससे स्थापित the संयुक्त  States of America .
The American Revolutionary War , which ended with the recognition of independence of the United States from the Kingdom  of ग्रेट ब्रिटेन , थी the पहला कामयाब युद्ध of स्वतंत्रता विरूद्ध a यूरोपीय औपनिवेशिक  empire .
The current  संविधान थी अपनाया on सितंबर 17 , 1787 ; twenty-seven amendments  have since been added to the Constitution .
The first ten amendments , collectively named the Bill of Rights ,  यहूद ratified in 1791 और गारंटी अनेक आधारभूत सिविल अधिकारों और freedoms  .
Driven by the doctrine  of manifest नियति , the संयुक्त राज्य embarked on  a vigorous expansion across North America throughout the 19th century .
इस शामिल displacing देशी जनजातियों , acquiring  new territories , and gradually admitting new states .
The  अमरीकी सिविल युद्ध ended legalized  slavery in the United States .
by the समाप्त of the उन्नीसवीं सदी , the संयुक्त राज्य विस्तारित  into the Pacific Ocean , and its economy was the world 's largest .
the spanish–american युद्ध और  confirmed the country 's status as a global military power .
The United States emerged from as a  वैश्विक महाशक्ति , the पहला देश साथ नाभिकीय हथियार , और a स्थाई सदस्य  of the United Nations Security Council .
The end of the Cold War and the dissolution of  the सोवियत संघ बाएँ the संयुक्त राज्य as the एकमात्र महाशक्ति  .
The United States is a developed  देश और रै the संसार 's largest नेशनल अर्थव्यवस्था , साथ an अनुमानित 2012 जीडीपी of $ 15.6 खरब  19 % of global GDP at purchasing-power parity , as of 2011 .
The per capita GDP of the U.S. was the  संसार 's sixth-highest as of 2010 , हालांकि अमेरिका 's माल असमानता  was also ranked highest among OECD countries by the World Bank .
The economy is fueled by an abundance of natural resources , a  well-developed अवसंरचना , और ऊँची उत्पादकता ; और जबकि इसके अर्थव्यवस्था is माना post-industrial  it continues to be one of the world 's largest manufacturers .
The country accounts for 39 % of global  सैन्य बिता , और is a अग्रणी आर्थिक , राजनैतिक , और सांस्कृतिक फ़ोर्स in the संसार , as खूब  as a leader in scientific research and technological innovation .
The NCAA Men 's Division I Basketball Championship is a single-elimination tournament played each spring in the  संयुक्त राज्य , फिलहाल featuring 68 कॉलेज बास्केट टीमों , to determine the नेशनल चैंपियनशिप of the प्रमुख कॉलेज  basketball teams .
The tournament , organized by the National Collegiate Athletic Association ( NCAA ) , was created during  1939 by the नेशनल संघ of बास्केट कोच , और थी the विचार of  Ohio State University coach Harold Olsen .
Played mostly during March , it is known informally as March Madness or the Big  नृत्य , और रै become एक of the सबसे प्रसिद्ध सालाना  sporting events in the United States .
The NCAA has  credited bob वाल्श of the सिएटल आयोजन कमेटी लिये  starting the March Madness celebration during 1984 .
The tournament teams include champions from 31 Division I conferences ( which receive automatic bids )  , और 37 टीमों जिससे हैं awarded at-large berths  .
These `` at-large '' teams are chosen by  an ncaa चयन कमेटी , as विस्तृत  below .
The 64 teams are divided into four regions and organized into a single elimination ``  कोष्ठक '' , जिससे predetermines , जब a टोली विन्स a खेल , जिससे टोली  it will face next .
Each  टोली is `` seeded  '' , or ranked , within its region .
After an initial four  खेल between आठ lower-ranked टीमों , the टूर्नामेंट occurs दौरान the कोर्स of  three weekends , at pre-selected neutral sites around the United States .
Lower-ranked teams  हैं लगाई in the कोष्ठक विरूद्ध उच्चतर क्रमित  teams .
Each weekend eliminates three-fourths of the teams , from a round of 64 , to a `` Sweet Sixteen '' , and  लिये the पिछला वीकेंड of the टूर्नामेंट a फाइनल चार ; the फाइनल चार is प्रायः निभाई दौरान  the first weekend of April .
These four teams ,  एक इससे प्रत्येक प्रदेश , तब compete in एक स्थान लिये the  national championship .
The tournament has been at least  partially televised चूंकि 1969  .
presently , the खेल हैं reported by सीबीएस , tbs ,  TNT , and truTV by the trade-name NCAA March Madness .
Since 2011 , all games are  उपलब्धियाँ लिये देखने देशभर  .
As television coverage has  grown , so too रै the टूर्नामेंट 's लोकप्रियता  .
Presently , millions of Americans `` fill out a bracket '' ,  predicting विजेता of सब 67 खेल  .
With 11 national titles , UCLA  रै the रिकार्ड लिये the सबसे ncaa मेन 's प्रभाग i बास्केट  Championships ; John Wooden coached UCLA to 10 of its 11 titles .
The  विश्वविद्यालयों of केंटकी is दूसरी , साथ 8 नेशनल शीर्षक , जबकि इंडियाना  University and the University of North Carolina are tied for third with 5 national titles .
Duke University ranks fifth  साथ 4 नेशनल शीर्षक  .
A  नमूना of सिंथेटिक  motor oil
Synthetic oil is a  स्नेहक consisting of रासायनिक यौगिकों कि हैं artificially बना  ( synthesized ) .
Synthetic lubricants can be manufactured using chemically modified petroleum components rather  than पूरे crude आयल , लकिन can भी be synthesized इससे अन्य कच्चा सामग्री  .
Synthetic oil is used as a substitute for lubricant refined from petroleum  जब ऑपरेटिंग in extremes of तापमान , क्युकी  , in general , it provides superior mechanical and chemical properties than those found in traditional mineral oils .
Aircraft jet engines , for example ,  आवश्यकता the उपयोग of सिंथेटिक oils , whereas वायुयान पिस्टन इंजन  do not .
Jackass is an American reality series , originally shown on MTV from 2000 to 2002 , featuring  लोगों performing विभिन्न खतरनाक , crude self-injuring स्टंट  and pranks .
The show served as a launchpad for  the टेलीविज़न और एक्टिंग करियर of bam margera , steve-o , और भी जॉनी knoxville , जो  previously had only a few minor acting roles .
Since 2002 ,  तीन बेवकूफ़ films have महरूम उत्पादित और released by एमटीवी कॉरपोरेट सहोदर  Paramount Pictures , continuing the franchise after its run on television .
The show sparked several  spin-offs सहित चिरायु la bam , wildboyz , homewrecker  , Dr. Steve-O and Blastazoid .
The show placed # 68 on  entertainment साप्ताहिक `` नई tv  Classics '' list .
Roseanne Cherrie Barr ( born November 3 , 1952 ) is an American actress , comedienne ,  लेखक , टेलीविज़न निर्माता , निदेशक , और 2012 अध्यक्षीय  nominee of the California -based Peace and Freedom Party .
Barr  began उसके करियर in stand-up कॉमेडी at क्लब पहले gaining कीर्ति लिये  her role in the sitcom Roseanne .
The show was a  hit और lasted नौ सीज़न  , from 1988 to 1997 .
She won both  an एमी और a सुनहरी ग्लोब  Award for Best Actress for her work on the show .
Barr had crafted a `` fierce working-class domestic goddess ''  persona in the आठ सालो preceding उसके sitcom और चाही to do a यथार्थवादी दिखाएँ परिचय a दमदार  mother who was not a victim of patriarchal consumerism .
The granddaughter of immigrants from Europe and  रूस , barr थी the oldest of चार children in a working-class यहूदी नमक झील नगर परिवार  ; she was also active in the LDS Church .
In  1974 , वो शादीशुदा विधेयक pentland , साथ जिसको वो था तीन children  , before divorcing in 1990 and marrying comedian Tom Arnold for four years .
विवाद arose जब वो संग `` the star-spangled  Banner `` off-key at a 1990 nationally aired baseball game , followed by grabbing her crotch and spitting .
After her sitcom ended , she launched her own talk  दिखाएँ , the roseanne दिखाएँ , जिससे aired  from 1998 to 2000 .
In 2005 , she returned to  stand-up कॉमेडी साथ a  world tour .
In 2011 , she starred in an unscripted TV show , Roseanne 's Nuts , that lasted from  जुलाई to सितंबर of कि साल , परिचय उसके जीवन on a हवाई फार्म  .
In early 2012 ,  barr घोषित उसके उम्मीदवारी लिये the अध्यक्षीय  nomination of the Green Party .
Barr lost the  नामांकन to jill  Stein .
She then sought the presidential nomination of the Peace  और स्वतंत्रता पार्टी , जिससे वो जीती on अगस्त 4 , 2012  .
Barr received 61,971 votes in  the सामान्य चुनाव , रखकर  sixth overall .
Francesco Albani 's 17th century  बपतिस्मा of मसीह is a ठेठ चित्रण साथ the आसमान खोलने और the पावन स्पिरिट descending  as a dove .
The baptism of Jesus marks  the शुरूआत of उसके पब्लिक  ministry .
This event is recorded in the canonical  gospels of मैथ्यू , चिह्नित और ल्यूक .
John 's gospel does not describe Jesus '  बपतिस्मा , लकिन जॉन the बैपटिस्ट करता गवाही of  the other things in .
In the New Testament , John the Baptist preached the baptism of repentance for the remission of sins ( ) , and  घोषित खुद a forerunner of he कि होता baptize `` साथ the पावन भुत  and with fire '' ( ) .
In so  doing he थी तैयारी the  way for Jesus .
Jesus came to  the जॉर्डन नदी जहाँ he थी  baptized by John .
The baptismal scene includes the heavens opening , a dove-like descent of  the पावन स्पिरिट , और a आवाज़ इससे स्वर्ग saying , `` इस is my beloved  Son , in whom I am well pleased . ''
Most modern scholars view  the फैक्ट कि यीशु थी baptized by जॉन as an ऐतिहासिक इवेंट to  which a high degree of certainty can be assigned .
Along with the crucifixion of Jesus most scholars view it as one of the two historically certain facts  परिचय उसे , और प्रायः उपयोग it as the starting अंक लिये the पढ़ाई of the ऐतिहासिक  Jesus .
The baptism is one of the five major milestones in the gospel  कथा of the जीवन of यीशु , the अन्य होने the बासीलीक ,  Crucifixion , Resurrection , and Ascension .
Most  ईसाई denominations दृश्य the बपतिस्मा of यीशु as an महत्वपूर्ण इवेंट  and a basis for the Christian rite of baptism ( see also ) .
In Eastern Christianity , Jesus ' baptism is  commemorated on 6 जनवरी , the feast of epiphany  .
In the Roman Catholic Church , the Anglican Communion , the  लूथरन चर्च और कुछ अन्य पश्चिमी denominations , it is recalled on a दिन भीतर the following  week , the feast of the baptism of the Lord .
In Roman Catholicism ,  the बपतिस्मा of यीशु is एक of the चमकदार रहस्यों  sometimes added to the Rosary .
It is a Trinitarian feast in the  पूर्वी परंपरागत चर्च  .
Methylcobalamin (  दिखाया ) is a रूप of विटामिन  B12 .
Physically it resembles the other forms of vitamin B12 , occurring as  अंधेरा रेड crystals कि freely रूप cherry-colored  transparent solutions in water .
Vitamin B12 , vitamin B12 or vitamin B-12 , also called cobalamin , is a water-soluble  विटामिन साथ a कुंजी भूमिका in the सामान्य कामकाज of the दिमाग और बेचैन  system , and for the formation of blood .
It is one of the  आठ b विटामिन .
It is  सामान्यतः शामिल in the चयापचय of प्रत्येक कोशिका of the इंसान देह , विशेषकर affecting  DNA synthesis and regulation , but also fatty acid synthesis and energy production .
Neither fungi , plants , nor animals are  सक्षम of producing विटामिन b12 .
Only bacteria  और आर्किया have the एंजाइमों जरूरी लिये इसके संश्लेषण , हालांकि अनेक भोजन  are a natural source of B12 because of bacterial symbiosis .
The vitamin is the largest and most structurally complicated vitamin and can be  उत्पादित industrially तभी through बैक्टीरियल  fermentation-synthesis .
Vitamin B12 consists of a class of  chemically सम्बन्धित यौगिकों ( vitamers  ) , all of which have vitamin activity .
It contains the  biochemically विरल तत्व  cobalt .
Biosynthesis of the basic structure of the vitamin is accomplished only by  जीवाणु ( जिससे प्रायः उपज hydroxocobalamin ) , लकिन परिवर्तन between अलग फ़ॉर्म of the विटामिन can be संपन्नता  in the human body .
A common semi-synthetic form of the vitamin ,  cyanocobalamin , करता नहीं occur in प्रकृति , लकिन is उत्पादित इससे बैक्टीरियल hydroxocobalamin  and then used in many pharmaceuticals and supplements , and as a food additive , because of its stability and lower production cost .
In the body it is converted to the human  physiological फ़ॉर्म methylcobalamin और adenosylcobalamin ,  leaving behind the cyanide , albeit in minimal concentration .
More recently , hydroxocobalamin , methylcobalamin , and  adenosylcobalamin can be मिला in अधिक महंगी pharmacological उत्पाद और खाना  supplements .
The extra  यूटिलिटी of ये is फिलहाल  debated .
Vitamin B12 was discovered from its relationship to the disease pernicious anemia , which is  an असंक्राम्य बीमारी in जिससे parietal कोशिकाएं of the पेट जिम्मेदार लिये secreting मूलभूत फ़ैक्टर  are destroyed .
Intrinsic factor is crucial for the normal absorption of B12 , so a lack  of मूलभूत फ़ैक्टर , as देखी in घातक रक्ताल्पता , कल्याणकारी a विटामिन  B12 deficiency .
Many other  subtler kinds of विटामिन b12 कमियां  and their biochemical effects have since been elucidated .
Full Metal Jacket is a 1987 war film  उत्पादित  , directed and co-written by Stanley Kubrick .
It is an adaptation of Gustav Hasford 's 1979 novel The Short-Timers and  सितारों मैथ्यू modine , विंसेंट d'onofrio , R. ली ermey  , Arliss Howard , and Adam Baldwin .
The film follows a  प्लाटून of u.S. marines through उनके प्रशिक्षण  and the experiences of two of the platoon 's Marines in the Tet Offensive during the Vietnam War .
The film 's  शीर्षक refers to the पूरा मेटल जैकेट गोली  used by infantry riflemen .
The film  प्राप्त नाजुक  acclaim .
it प्राप्त an अकादमी पुरस्कार नामांकन लिये बेहतरीन adapted पटकथा  for Kubrick , Michael Herr and Gustav Hasford .
In 2001 , the American Film Institute placed Full Metal  जैकेट at # 95 in उनके `` एएफआई 's 100 सालो ... 100 thrills `` पोल .
TMZ is a celebrity news website  कि debuted on नवम्बर 8 , 2005  .
It was a collaboration  between एओएल और telepictures प्रोडक्शन्स , a प्रभाग of warner भाईs. , जबतक  Time Warner divested AOL in 2009 .
However , it remained affiliated with AOL News and  रै the एओएल न्यूज लोगो affixed in the  upper right corner .
The  नाम tmz स्टैंड लिये the ऐतिहासिक `` स्टुडियो मण्डल `` or 30-mile मण्डल दायरा इससे  the intersection of West Beverly Boulevard and North La Cienega Boulevard in Los Angeles .
TMZ 's managing editor is Harvey Levin , a  lawyer-turned-journalist जो थी previously a विधिक विशेषज्ञ लिये the लॉस एंजिल्स टेलीविज़न स्टेशन kcbs-tv  .
The site claims that it does not pay for stories or interviews ;  however , levin रै admitted कि tmz करता `` sometimes  pay sources for leads on stories '' .
Levin has stated that `` everything is  शोधकार्य और vetted लिये सटीकता  . ''
A companion TV series ,  tmz on tv , debuted on सितंबर  10 , 2007 .
Scream 3 is a 2000 American slasher film  निर्मित by केविन विलियमसन , निर्देशित by वेस craven और लिखा by ehren  Kruger , starring Neve Campbell , Courteney Cox Arquette and David Arquette .
It was released on February 4 ,  2000 as the तीसरा किश्त in the  Scream film series .
The events of the story are set three years after those of Scream 2 and follows Sidney Prescott (  कैम्पबेल ) जो रै गए into self-imposed अलगाव following the कार्यक्रम of the पिछला दो films लकिन is drawn to हॉलीवुड  after a new Ghostface begins killing the cast of the film within a film `` Stab 3 '' .
Scream 3 combines the violence of the slasher genre with comedy and ``  whodunit `` रहस्य जबकि satirizing the cliché of फिल्मी trilogies  .
Unlike the previous Scream films , there was an increased emphasis on comedic elements and the violence and horror was reduced in response to increased public  scrutiny परिचय हिंसा in मीडिया following the columbine ऊँची स्कूल नरसंहार  .
The film was the concluding  अध्याय of the चीख श्रेणी जबतक  it was revived with a sequel , Scream 4 , in 2011 .
विलियमसन provided a five-page रूपरेखा लिये दो सिक्वेल to चीख जब  auctioning his original script , hoping to entice bidders with the potential of buying a franchise .
Williamson 's commitments to other  प्रोजेक्ट meant he थी असमर्थ to develop a पूरा स्क्रिप्ट लिये चीख 3 और लिखने  duties were undertaken by Ehren Kruger who discarded much of Williamson 's notes .
Craven and Marco  beltrami लौटे to सीधा और स्कोर the फिल्मी क्रमशः as वे  had with the previous two series entries .
Production was  troubled साथ स्क्रिप्ट rewrites , साथ पृष्ठों sometimes तभी तैयार on  the day of filming , and scheduling difficulties with the main cast .
Scream 3 performed both financially and critically worse than its preceding films , earning over $ 161 million and  साथ अनेक आलोचकों claiming कि the फिल्मी था become कया चीख originally ``  spoofed `` .
Despite  ऋणात्मक आलोचना the फिल्मी किया प्राप्त तारीफ़ साथ reviewers कॉलिंग it  the perfect end to the Scream trilogy .
As of 2012 , the film is currently  the क्रमांक 3 highest-grossing slasher-film in  North America , following Scream at number 1 and Scream 2 at number 2 .
The film 's soundtrack was  well-received , बिता चौदह सप्ताह on the बिलबोर्ड  200 and reaching a high of # 32 .
Shoulder impingement syndrome , also called painful arc syndrome , supraspinatus syndrome , swimmer 's  कंधे , और thrower 's कंधे , is a नैदानिक सिंड्रोम जिससे occurs जब the tendons of the rotator कफ मांसपेशियां become irritated और inflamed as वे pass through the subacromial स्पेस ,  the passage beneath the acromion .
This can result in pain , weakness and  घाटा of गति at the कंधे  .
JLA was a monthly  कॉमिक किताब प्रकाशित by dc कॉमिक्स इससे जनवरी 1997 to  April 2006 featuring the Justice League .
The  औपनिवेशिक इतिहास of the संयुक्त राज्य कवर the इतिहास of यूरोपीय settlements इससे the  start of colonization of America until their incorporation into the United States .
In the late 16th century , England , France ,  स्पेन और the नीदरलैंड्स शुभारम्भ प्रमुख colonization कार्यक्रम in पूर्वी  North America .
Small early attempts—such as the English Lost Colony of Roanoke —often  disappeared ; everywhere the मौत  rate of the first arrivals was very high .
Nevertheless successful  colonies यहूद स्थापित  .
European settlers came  इससे a किस्में of सोशल और धार्मिक  groups .
No aristocrats settled permanently , but a number of  adventurers , सैनिको , किसानो , और  tradesmen arrived .
Diversity was an American characteristic as the Dutch of New Netherland , the Swedes and Finns of New Sweden , the English Quakers of Pennsylvania , the English Puritans of New England , the English settlers  of jamestown , और the `` worthy ग़रीब '' of जॉर्जिया , आए to the नई महाद्वीप और निर्मित colonies साथ distinctive सोशल , धार्मिक , राजनैतिक और आर्थिक शैलियाँ .
occasionally एक उपनिवेश took कंट्रोल of another ( दौरान युद्धों between  their European parents ) .
Only in Nova Scotia ( now part of Canada ) did the conquerors  निकाल the पिछला colonists  .
Instead they all  जिया पक्ष by पक्ष in सलाम  .
There were no major civil wars among the 13 colonies , and the two  मुख्य हथियारबंद विद्रोहों ( in वर्जिनिया in 1676 और in नई यॉर्क in  1689–91 ) were short-lived failures .
Wars between the French and the British—the French and Indian Wars and  पिता rale 's युद्ध —were तूल , और शामिल french-support  for Wabanaki Confederacy attacks on the frontiers .
By 1760 France was  पराजित और the अंग्रेजों जब्त  its colonies .
The four distinct regions were :  नई इंग्लैण्ड , the मध्य colonies , the chesapeake  Bay Colonies ( Upper South ) and the Lower South .
Some historians add a fifth region , the  frontier , जिससे थी never separately  organized .
By the time European settlers arrived around 1600–1650 , the majority of the Native Americans living in the eastern United States had been decimated by new  रोगों , introduced to उन्हें दशकों पहले by explorers और sailors .
See timeline of  औपनिवेशिक अमेरिका लिये सूची of ऐतिहासिक  events .
Gloria Laura  वेंडरबिल्ट ( born फ़रवरी 20 , 1924 ) is an अमरीकी कलाकार  , author , actress , heiress , and socialite most noted as an early developer of designer blue jeans .
She is a member of the prominent  वेंडरबिल्ट परिवार of नई यॉर्क और the माँ of सीएनएन 's  Anderson Cooper .
Greece ( Romanization of Greek| ) , officially  the हैलेनिक गणतंत्र ( ' ) ,  is a country in Southeast Europe .
according to the 2011 जनसांख्यिकी  , Greece 's population is around 11 million .
Athens is the  स्वदेश 's पूंजी और largest नगर , इसके शहरी क्षेत्रफल  also including Piraeus .
Greece is  रणनीतिक स्तिथ at the क्रॉसरोड्स of यूरोपीय , एशिया , the मध्य ईस्ट , और अफ़्रीकी , और रै जमीन सीमायें  with Albania , the Republic of Macedonia and Bulgaria to the north , and Turkey to the northeast .
The Aegean Sea lies to the east of mainland Greece ,  the आयोनियन समुद्र to the वेस्ट , और the भूमध्यसागरीय  Sea to the south .
Greece  रै the 11th longest तटरेखा in the संसार at in लंबाई , featuring a विशाल क्रमांक of आइलैंड्स ( लगभग 1,400  , of which 227 are inhabited ) , including Crete , the Dodecanese , the Cyclades , and the Ionian Islands among others .
Eighty percent of Greece consists of  kyu , of जिससे माउंट ओलम्पस is the  highest at .
Modern Greece traces its roots to the civilization of  प्राचीन यूनानियों , generally माना the पालना of  Western civilization .
As such , it is the birthplace of democracy , Western philosophy , the Olympic Games , Western  साहित्य और historiography , राजनैतिक विज्ञान , प्रमुख वैज्ञानिक और गणितीय सिद्धान्त , और पश्चिमी नाटक , सहित दोनो त्रासदी  and comedy .
इस विरासत is partly reflected in the सत्रह युनेस्को संसार विरासत  Sites located in Greece , ranking it 7th in Europe and 13th in the world .
The modern Greek state  थी स्थापित in 1830 , following  the Greek War of Independence .
Greece is a founding member  of the संयुक्त राष्ट्र , रै महरूम a सदस्य of कया is अभी the यूरोपीय संघ चूंकि 1981 (  and the eurozone since 2001 ) , and has been a member of NATO since 1952 .
Greece is a developed country with an advanced ,  high-income अर्थव्यवस्था और बहुत ऊँची मानकों of जीना , सहित the  world 's 21st highest quality of life as of 2010 .
Greece 's economy is  भी the largest in the balkans , जहाँ यूनानियों  is an important regional investor .
a प्रधान मध्याह्न is a मध्याह्न , i.e . a लकीर  of longitude , at which longitude is defined to be 0° .
A prime meridian and its opposite in a  360°-system , the 180th मध्याह्न ( at 180°  longitude ) , form a great circle .
This great circle  divides the गोला , e.g . the धरती , into  two hemispheres .
If one uses directions of East and West from a defined  प्रधान मध्याह्न , तब वे can be पुकारा  Eastern Hemisphere and Western Hemisphere .
Gerardus Mercator in his  एटलस cosmographicae ( 1595 )  uses a prime meridian somewhere close to 25°W , passing just to the west of Santa Maria Island in the Atlantic .
His 180th  मध्याह्न रनों साथ the जलसन्धि of anián (  Bering Strait )
A prime meridian is  ultimately मनमानी , नापसंद an equator , जिससे is संकल्पित  by the axis of rotation—and various conventions have been used or advocated in different regions and throughout history .
Minka Dumont  केली ( born minka dumont dufay ;  June 24 , 1980 ) is an American actress .
She is perhaps best known for her roles in Charlie 's Angels ,  शुक्रवार रात्रि लाइट्स , और the रूममेट  .
R.O.B . ( Robotic  ऑपरेटिंग दोस्त ) , released in जापानी as the , is an accessory  for the Nintendo Entertainment System ( NES ) .
It was  released in जुलाई 1985 in जापानी  and later that year in North America .
It had a short product lifespan , with support for only  दो खेल जिससे comprised the `` रोबोट श्रेणी  '' ; Gyromite and Stack-Up .
R.O.B . was released with the intention of portraying the Nintendo Entertainment System  as कुछ अनोखा in अनुक्रम to alleviate खुदरा fears following the वीडियो खेल क्रैश  of 1983 .
R.O.B . was available in the Deluxe Set , a configuration for the console that  शामिल , among अन्य बाते , r.o.b .  and Gyromite .
Stack-Up was  खरीदा separately और शामिल इसके अपना शारीरिक खेल  pieces .
The Walking Liberty half dollar was a silver  50-cent टुकड़ा or हाफ डालर सिक्का जारी by the संयुक्त राज्य मिंट इससे 1916 to  1947 ; it was designed by Adolph A. Weinman .
In 1915 , the new Mint Director , Robert W. Woolley , came to  मानना कि he थी नहीं तभी अनुमत लकिन जरूरी by विधि to बदलें सिक्का डिजाइन  that had been in use for 25 years .
He therefore began the process of replacing the Barber coinage : dimes , quarters and half dollars , all bearing  समान डिजाइन by long-time मिंट engraver चार्ल्स E. नाई , और पहला struck  in 1892 .
Woolley had the Commission of Fine  कला conduct a प्रतियोगिता , as a परिणाम of जिससे weinman थी  selected to design the dime and half dollar .
weinman 's डिज़ाइन of स्वतंत्रता striding towards the सूर्य लिये the हाफ डालर proved मुश्किल to  perfect , and Treasury Secretary William G. McAdoo , whose department included the Mint , considered having Barber create his own design .
Mint officials were successful in getting  weinman 's डिज़ाइन into उत्पादन , हालांकि  it never struck very well , which may have been a factor in its replacement by the Franklin half dollar beginning in 1948 .
Nevertheless , art historian Cornelius Vermeule considered the piece to  be among the सबसे खूबसूरत us  coins .
Since 1986 , a modification of Weinman 's  obverse डिज़ाइन रै महरूम प्रयुक्त लिये the अमरीकी चांदी त्रिभुज  .
The Toyota 4Runner is a mid-size sport utility vehicle ( SUV )  उत्पादित by the जापानी निर्माता टोयोटा और बेची throughout the  world from 1984 to present .
In Japan it was known  as the टोयोटा hilux  Surf .
The original 4Runner was  a कॉम्पैक्ट एसयूवी और छोटी अधिक than a टोयोटा पिकअप ट्रक साथ a fiberglass शेल over the bed , लकिन the मॉडल रै चूंकि undergone significant स्वतंत्र  development into a cross between a compact and a mid-size SUV .
All 4Runners have been built at Toyota 's Tahara plant in Tahara  , aichi , जापानी , or at hino मोटर्स ' hamura , जापानी संयंत्र , और  in Brazil .
इसके mid-size क्रॉसओवर  SUV counterpart is the Toyota Highlander .
This article deals  साथ आयुर्विज्ञान as practiced by प्रशिक्षित पेशेवर  from ancient times to the present .
The ancient Egyptians had a  प्रणाली of आयुर्विज्ञान कि थी बहुत उन्नत लिये इसके  time and influenced later medical traditions .
The  उन्होंने और babylonians दोनो introduced  the concepts of diagnosis , prognosis , and medical examination .
The Greeks went  भी further , और उन्नत  as well medical ethics .
The Hippocratic Oath ,  स्टिल लिया by डॉक्टर आज , थी लिखा in  Greece in the 5th century BCE .
In the medieval era , surgical practices inherited from  the प्राचीन मास्टर्स यहूद improved और तब systematized in rogerius  's The Practice of Surgery .
Universities  began व्यवस्थित प्रशिक्षण of physicians around  the years 1220 in Italy .
During the  पुनर्जागरण , समझना of anatomy  improved , and the microscope was invented .
The germ  सिद्धान्त of बीमारी in the 19th सदी led to  cures for many infectious diseases .
Military  डॉक्टर उन्नत the विधि of आघात  treatment and surgery .
Public health  उपायों यहूद विकसित विशेषकर in the 19th सदी  as the rapid growth of cities required systematic sanitary measures .
उन्नत शोध centers खोली in the जल्दी 20th सदी ,  often connected with major hospitals .
the mid-20th सदी थी characterized  by new biological treatments , such as antibiotics .
These advancements , along  साथ developments in रसायन , आनुवंशिकी , और lab प्रौद्योगिकी  ( such as the x-ray ) led to modern medicine .
Medicine was heavily professionalized in the 20th century , and new  करियर खोली to महिलाओं as नर्स ( इससे the 1870s ) और as physicians ( विशेषकर बाद 1970  ) .
The 21st century is  characterized by बहुत उन्नत शोध involving numerous फ़ील्ड  of science .
The Hippocratic Corpus , is a  संग्रहण of जल्दी चिकित्सा works इससे प्राचीन यूनानियों strongly संबद्ध साथ the  ancient Greek physician Hippocrates and his teachings .
Potassium is a chemical element with symbol K  ( इससे neo-latin kalium ) और परमाणु क्रमांक 19  .
Elemental potassium is a soft silvery-white alkali metal that  oxidizes rapidly in एयर और is बहुत प्रतिक्रिया साथ जल , generating sufficient ऊष्मा to ignite  the hydrogen emitted in the reaction and burning with a lilac flame .
Because  पोटैशियम और सोडियम हैं chemically बहुत समान , उनके  salts were not at first differentiated .
The existence of multiple  तत्व in उनके लवण थी suspected इससे 1702 , और इस थी सिद्ध in 1807 जब पोटैशियम  and sodium were individually isolated from different salts by electrolysis .
Potassium in  प्रकृति occurs तभी  in ionic salts .
As such , it is  मिला dissolved in seawater ( जिससे is 0.04 %  potassium by weight ) , and is part of many minerals .
Most industrial chemical  अनुप्रयोग of पोटैशियम employ the अपेक्षाकृत  high solubility in water of potassium compounds , such as potassium soaps .
Potassium metal has  तभी a few खास अनुप्रयोग , होने replaced  in most chemical reactions with sodium metal .
Potassium  ions हैं जरुरी लिये the  function of all living cells .
Potassium ion  diffusion is a कुंजी यांत्रिकी in तंत्रिका हस्तांतरण , और पोटैशियम depletion in पशु  , including humans , results in various cardiac dysfunctions .
Potassium accumulates in plant cells , and thus fresh fruits  और सब्जियां हैं a शुभ dietary सोर्स  of it .
Conversely , most plants except specialist halophytes are intolerant of salt , and sodium is  उपस्थित in उन्हें तभी in कम विशेषज्ञता  .
This resulted  in पोटैशियम पहला होने पृथक इससे potash , the राख of  plants , giving the element its name .
For the same reason , heavy  क्रॉप उत्पादन rapidly depletes soils of पोटैशियम , और agricultural fertilizers consume  95 % of global potassium chemical production .
The Singapore dollar or dollar ( sign : $ ; code  : sgd ) is the आधिकारिक करेंसी  of Singapore .
It is normally abbreviated with the dollar sign $ , or  alternatively s $ to फर्क it इससे अन्य डालर -denominated  currencies .
It is  विभाजित into 100  cents .
The Monetary Authority of Singapore and the Brunei  करेंसी और मौद्रिक फलक स्टिल maintain the ऐतिहासिक exchangeability of उनके दो मुद्राएँ , the  Singaporean dollar and the Brunei dollar , respectively .
The dollar is accepted as `` customary  टेंडर '' in ब्रुनेई according to the करेंसी interchangeability  Agreement .
likewise , the ब्रुनेई डालर is customarily  accepted in Singapore
James Samuel Coleman ( May 12 , 1926 – March 25 , 1995 ) was  an अमरीकी समाजशास्त्री , theorist और अनुभवजन्य शोधकर्ता , आधारित chiefly  at the University of Chicago .
He was  निर्वाचित अध्यक्ष of the अमरीकी  Sociological Association .
कोलमैन पढ़ाई the समाजशास्त्र of शिक्षा , पब्लिक नीति  , and was one of the earliest users of the term `` social capital `` .
His Foundations of Social Theory  बहकावे समाजशास्त्रीय सिद्धान्त  .
His  the adolescent समाज ( 1961 ) और `` कोलमैन रपट  '' ( Equality of Educational Opportunity , 1966 ) were two of the most heavily cited books in educational sociology .
The landmark Coleman Report helped transform educational theory , reshape national education  नीतियों , और बहकावे पब्लिक और scholarly राय regarding the भूमिका of schooling in determining समता और उत्पादकता in the संयुक्त राज्य  .
सुपरमैन ( इससे dc कॉमिक्स ) थी the पहला सुपरहीरो  created , art by Jim Lee .
A superhero ( sometimes rendered super-hero or super hero ) is  a प्रकार of भण्डार अक्षर possessing `` असाधारण or superhuman  powers '' and dedicated to protecting the public .
Since the debut of the prototypical superhero Superman in 1938 , stories of superheroes—ranging from brief episodic adventures  to continuing years-long sagas—have वर्चस्व अमरीकी  comic books and crossed over into other media .
The word  itself तिथियाँ to at  least 1917 .
A  मादा सुपरहीरो is sometimes पुकारा a superheroine  ( also rendered super-heroine or super heroine ) .
``  सुपर नायक '' is a ट्रेडमार्क  co-owned by DC Comics and Marvel Comics .
By most  परिभाषाएं , वर्ण do नहीं सख्ती आवश्यकता वास्तविक superhuman शक्तियां to be deemed superheroes , हालांकि शर्तें ऐसे as costumed  crime fighters or masked vigilantes are sometimes used to refer to those such as Batman and Green Arrow without such powers who share other common superhero traits .
Such characters were generally referred to as ``  रहस्य मेन '' in the so-called सुनहरी आयु of कॉमिक किताबे to फर्क  them from characters with super-powers .
Normally , superheroes use their powers to counter day-to-day crime while  भी combating खतरे विरूद्ध मानवता by supervillains , उनके दण्ड counterparts  .
Often , one of these  supervillains होगा be the सुपरहीरो  's archenemy .
As well , some longrunning superheroes , such as Superman , Batman ,  spider-man और आयरन man प्रत्येक रै a rogues दीर्घा  of enemies .
as खूब , superheroes sometimes होगा कॉम्बैट ऐसे irregular खतरे as एलियंस , magical/ काल्पनिक entities , अमरीकी  war enemies such as nazism or communism , and godlike or demonic creatures .
The following is a historical list of  अभिनेताओं और प्राथमिक अक्षर भूमिकाएँ जिससे appear on the अमरीकी साबुन ओपेरा  One Life to Live .
The Shawshank Redemption is a 1994 American  नाटक फिल्मी लिखा और निर्देशित by फ़्रैंक  Darabont and starring Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman .
Adapted from the Stephen King novella Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption , the film tells the story of Andy Dufresne , a banker who  खर्च nearly दो दशकों in shawshank राज्य थाना लिये the हत्या of उसके बीवी  and her lover despite his claims of innocence .
दौरान उसके समय at the थाना , he befriends a fellow inmate , ellis boyd  `` Red '' Redding , and finds himself protected by the guards after the warden begins using him in his money laundering operation .
Despite a lukewarm box office reception that barely recouped its budget , the film received favorable  समीक्षाएँ इससे आलोचकों , अनेक पुरस्कार nominations , और रै चूंकि enjoyed a उल्लेखनीय जीवन on केबल  television , VHS , DVD , and Blu-ray .
It was included in the American Film  संस्थान 's 100 सालो ... 100 फिल्मों 10th वर्षगांठ  Edition .
IT management is the discipline whereby  सब of the प्रौद्योगिकी संसाधन of a कड़ हैं प्रबंधित  in accordance with its needs and priorities .
These  संसाधन may शामिल ठोस निवेश जैसे  computer hardware , software , data , networks and data centre facilities , as well as the staffs who are hired to maintain them .
Managing this responsibility within a company entails many of the basic  प्रबन्धन कृत्यों , जैसे budgeting , स्टॉफ , और आयोजन और controlling , साथ साथ अन्य पहलुओं  that are unique to technology , like change management , software design , network planning , tech support etc .
The Penitentiary of New Mexico Prison  riot , जिससे took प्लेस on फ़रवरी 2 और 3 , 1980 , in the राज्य 's अधिकतम सुरक्षा थाना दक्षिण of सांता fe , थी एक of the सबसे हिंसक थाना दंगे  in the history of the American correctional system : 33 inmates died and more than 200 inmates were treated for injuries .
None of the 12 officers taken hostage were  मारे , लकिन सात यहूद treated लिये चोटों  caused by beatings and rapes .
This was the third major riot at the NM State  penitentiary , the पहला occurring on 19 जुलाई 1922 और  the second on 15 June 1953 .
Author Roger Morris suggests the death toll may have been higher , as a  क्रमांक of लाशें यहूद incinerated or dismembered दौरान the कोर्स of the mayhem  .
`` रेड कार्डिनल  '' redirects here .
For the plant  erythrina herbacea , देखिए मूँगा  Bean .
The Northern Cardinal ( Cardinalis cardinalis ) is a North American bird in the genus Cardinalis ; it is  भी ज्ञात colloquially as the redbird or आम कार्डिनल  .
It can be found in southern Canada , through  the पूर्वी संयुक्त राज्य इससे maine to टेक्सास  and south through Mexico .
It is found in woodlands ,  gardens , shrublands ,  and swamps .
The Northern Cardinal is a mid-sized songbird with  a देह लंबाई of 21 सेंटीमीटर (  8.3 inches ) .
It has a  distinctive crest on the सिर और a मुखौटा on the फेस जिससे  is black in the male and gray in the female .
The  पुरूष is a हर्षोल्लास रेड , जबकि the  female is a dull red-brown shade .
The Northern  कार्डिनल is मुख्यतः granivorous , लकिन भी फ़ीड्स  on insects and fruit .
The male behaves  territorially , अंकन आउट उसके  territory with song .
During courtship , the male feeds  बीज to the मादा beak-to-beak  .
A clutch of three  to चार अंडे is रखी  , and two to four clutches are produced each year .
It was once prized as a pet  , लकिन इसके बिक्री as पिंजरा पक्षियों is अभी बैन in the संयुक्त राज्य by the migratory बर्ड  Treaty Act of 1918 .
Surface runoff , also called nonpoint source  प्रदूषण , इससे a फार्म फ़ील्ड in आयोवा दौरान  a rain storm .
topsoil as खूब as फार्म fertilizers और अन्य संभावित  pollutants run off unprotected farm fields when heavy rains occur .
Topsoil  is the अपर , outermost परत  of soil , usually the top to .
It  रै the उच्चतम विशेषज्ञता of सशुल्क पदार्थ और microorganisms  and is where most of the Earth 's biological soil activity occurs .
Musical cryptogram : ``  aschbeg '' नियत in schoenberg 's sechs  kleine Klavierstücke , Op . 19 , no . 1 , m. 5 .
Note that the notes  do नहीं आइये in स्पेलिंग अनुक्रम लकिन हैं सब  adjacent ( not separated by other notes ) .
Sechs  kleine klavierstücke , op . 19 ( or छह छोटी पियानो टुकड़े  ) is a set of pieces for solo piano written by the Austrian composer Arnold Schoenberg , published in 1913 .
McAfee , Inc. ( ) is an American global  कंप्यूटर सुरक्षा तन्त्र कम्पनी headquartered in सांता  Clara , California , and the world 's largest dedicated security technology company .
As of  फ़रवरी 28 , 2011 , मैक्एफ़ी is a wholly स्वामित्व subsidiary  of Intel .
McAfee 's competitors in the antivirus  उद्योग हैं avira , bitdefender , bullguard , f-secure , frisk  , Kaspersky , Symantec , and Trend Micro to name a few .
Saint Rita of Cascia ( Born Margherita Lotti 1381 - May 22  , 1457 ) थी an इतालवी augustinian नन , विधवा और संत  venerated in the Roman Catholic Church .
Rita was  शादीशुदा at  an early age .
The marriage lasted for 18 years , during which she is remembered for  उसके ईसाई मान as a मॉडल बीवी और माँ जो बना प्रयत्न to बदलें उसके husband इससे  his abusive behavior .
Upon the murder of her husband by another feuding family ,  वो sought to dissuade उसके बेटे  from revenge .
She subsequently joined an Augustinian community of religious sisters , where she was known for  practicing mortification of the flesh , साथ साथ the apparent efficacy of उसके  prayers .
St. Rita is venerated due to various miracles attributed to her intercession , and is often portrayed with a bleeding wound on her  माथे , जिससे the रोमन कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर दावा to have महरूम a आंशिक  stigmata .
The Roman Catholic Church , under the pontificate of Pope Leo XIII officially canonized Rita on May 24 , 1900  , जबकि उसके feast दिन is मनाये प्रत्येक may 22  .
In many pious  कैथोलिक देशों , रीता is ज्ञात to be  a patroness for abused wives and mourning women .
North America is  a महाद्वीप wholly भीतर  the Northern Hemisphere and almost wholly within the Western Hemisphere .
It is also considered a  उत्तरी उपमहाद्वीप  of the Americas .
It is bordered to the north by the Arctic Ocean , to the east by the Atlantic Ocean , to the  वेस्ट और दक्षिण by the प्रशांत समंदर , और to the  southeast by South America and the Caribbean Sea .
North America covers an area of about 24,709,000 square kilometers ( 9,540,000 square miles ) ,  परिचय 4.8 % of the ग्रह 's सतह or परिचय 16.5 % of इसके जमीन क्षेत्रफल  .
As of July 2008 , its population was estimated at  nearly 529 लाख लोगों आरपार 23 स्वतंत्र राज्य  , representing about 7.5 % of the human population .
North America is the third-largest continent in area ,  following एशिया और अफ़्रीकी , और the चौथी in जनसांख्यिकी बाद एशिया  , Africa , and Europe .
The first people to live in North  अमेरिका यहूद paleoindians जो began to arrive दौरान the पिछला glacial काल by  crossing the Bering land bridge .
They  differentiated into a क्रमांक of विविध  cultures and communities across the continent .
The largest and most  उन्नत pre-columbian सभ्यताओं in उत्तर अमेरिका यहूद  the Aztecs in what is now Mexico and the Mayans in Central America .
यूरोपीय colonists began to arrive starting in the 16th और 17th सदियां  , wiping out large numbers of the native populations and beginning an era of European dominance .
Jermaine Lamarr Cole ( born January 28 , 1985 ) , better known  by उसके स्टेज नाम J. कोल , is an अमरीकी hip-hop रिकॉर्डिंग कलाकार और रिकार्ड निर्माता  from Fayetteville , North Carolina .
In 2009 , he became the first  कलाकार to चिह्न to jay-z 's  Roc Nation label .
उसके long-awaited डेब्यू एल्बम , हकदार कोल संसार  : The Sideline Story , was released on September 27 , 2011 .
The album debuted  at क्रमांक एक on the us बिलबोर्ड 200 , शीर्ष r & b एल्बम और शीर्ष रैप  Albums chart , selling more than 218,000 in its first week .
He received a nomination for Best New  कलाकार at the 54th ग्रैमी पुरस्कार  .
The two main  वर्ण of the श्रेणी ,  Ratchet ( right ) and Clank ( left ) .
ratchet & clank is a श्रेणी of मंच  video games .
The franchise was created and developed by Insomniac Games and published by Sony Computer Entertainment for many different PlayStation consoles , such as PlayStation 2 and  प्लेस्टेशन 3 साथ the exclusion of आकार matters और रहस्य एजेंट clank , जिससे यहूद विकसित by ऊँची प्रभाव खेल लिये the प्लेस्टेशन  Portable .
Every game in the  श्रेणी रै महरूम released लिये प्रत्येक कंसोल  , as the IP is owned by Sony Computer Entertainment .
An animated feature  फिल्मी अनुकूलन उत्पादित by rainmaker entertainment और नाकेबंदी entertainment is अनुसूचित  for a theatrical release sometime in 2015 .
The games take place in  a विज्ञान fiction सेटिंग और follow the adventures of ratchet ( an animalistic human-like अक्षर ज्ञात as a lombax , जो  is a mechanic ) and Clank ( a diminutive , sentient robot ) as they travel through the universe , saving it from evil forces on a regular basis .
The series is noted for the inclusion of many exotic and unique ,  over the शीर्ष हथियार और डिवाइस , a अवधारणा कि insomniac खेल भी  expanded into their other games .
A will or testament is a legal declaration by which a  व्यक्ति , the testator , names एक or अधिक व्यक्तियों to मैनेज his/her एस्टेट  and provides for the transfer of his property at death .
For the  devolution of प्रॉपर्टी नहीं disposed of by होगा  , see inheritance and intestacy .
In the strictest sense , a `` will '' has historically  महरूम सीमित to रियल प्रॉपर्टी जबकि `` वसीयत '' applies तभी to dispositions of निजी प्रॉपर्टी ( यूँ giving वृद्धि to the लोकप्रिय शीर्षक of the दस्तावेज़ as `` पिछला होगा और वसीयत  '' ) , though this distinction is seldom observed today .
A will may also create a  testamentary विश्वास कि is प्रभावी तभी बाद the मौत  of the testator .
The 19.9 MW Gemasolar solar plant in Spain features 15 hours of storage  और can सप्लाई शक्ति 24 घंटों a दिन  .
Solar  उर्जा , रौशन लाइट और ऊष्मा इससे the सूर्य , रै महरूम harnessed by इंसानो  since ancient times using a range of ever-evolving technologies .
Solar energy technologies include solar heating , solar photovoltaics , solar thermal  विद्युत , सौर वास्तुकला और कृत्रिम photosynthesis , जिससे can मेक considerable योगदान to solving कुछ of  the most urgent energy problems the world now faces .
Solar technologies are broadly characterized as either passive solar or  क्रियाशील सौर depending on the रास्ता वे कैप्चर , बदलें और वितरित सौर  energy .
Active solar techniques include the use of  photovoltaic panels और सौर थर्मल collectors  to harness the energy .
Passive solar techniques include orienting a  भवन to the सूर्य , selecting सामग्री साथ अनुकूल थर्मल द्रव्यमान or लाइट dispersing  properties , and designing spaces that naturally circulate air .
In 2011 , the International Energy Agency said that `` the  विकास of सस्ती , inexhaustible और साफ सौर उर्जा technologies होगा  have huge longer-term benefits .
It will increase countries’ energy security through reliance on an indigenous , inexhaustible and mostly import-independent resource , enhance  स्थिरता , reduce प्रदूषण , निम्नतर the लागत of mitigating जलवायु बदलें , और रखना चट्टान ईंधन कीमतें निम्नतर than वरना  .
These  लाभ हैं  global .
Hence the additional costs of the incentives  लिये जल्दी deployment चाहिए be माना सीखना निवेश  ; they must be wisely spent and need to be widely shared '' .
Sir Thomas More ( ; 7 February 14786 July 1535 ) , known to Roman  catholics as संत थामस अधिक चूंकि 1935 , थी an अंग्रेज़ी वकील , सोशल पारस , लेखक , statesman , और विख्यात पुनर्जागरण  humanist .
He was an important  पार्षद to हेनरी viii of इंग्लैण्ड  and was Lord Chancellor from October 1529 to 16 May 1532 .
He was canonized  by पोप पायस xi in 1935 as एक of the जल्दी शहीदो  of the schism that separated the Church of England from Rome in the 16th century .
In 2000 , Pope John Paul II declared him patron  of कैथोलिक कूटनीतिज्ञों और राजनेता  .
More was an opponent of the Protestant Reformation ,  in particular of मार्टिन लूथर और विलियम  Tyndale .
However , since 1980 , he is also  commemorated by the गिरिजाघर of इंग्लैण्ड as a reformation  martyr .
More coined  the शब्द `` यूटोपिया `` – a नाम he दिया to the आदर्श और काल्पनिक द्वीप  nation , the political system of which he described in Utopia , published in 1516 .
He opposed the  किंग 's विरह इससे the रोमन कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर और refused to accept उसे as परम् सिर of the गिरिजाघर  of England , a title which had been given by parliament through the Act of Supremacy of 1534 .
He was imprisoned in 1534 for his refusal to take the oath required by  the पहला उत्तराधिकार अधिनियम , क्युकी the अधिनियम disparaged papal प्राधिकार और henry’s  marriage to Catherine of Aragon .
In  1535 , he थी आजमाया लिये देशद्रोह , convicted on perjured  testimony , and beheaded .
More also helped to originate the  phrase `` grasp at लोभी '' to औसत `` शिद्दत trying भी  useless things '' , in his Dialogue of Comfort Against Tribulation .
Intellectuals and statesmen  आरपार यूरोपीय यहूद दंग  by More 's execution .
Erasmus saluted him as one `` whose soul was more pure than  कोई हिम , जिनकी प्रतिभाशाली थी ऐसे कि इंग्लैण्ड never था और never  again will have its like '' .
There was a more controversial side to More 's life , because he advocated  the persecution और निष्पादन of protestants जो refused to  recant their faith .
However , the judgement of history  रै महरूम largely willing to forgive इस in लाइट of the टाइम्स he जिया in और उसके शहादत in  the Roman Catholic cause .
Two centuries later Jonathan Swift said More was  `` the व्यक्ति of the महानतम पुण्य इस किंगडम कभी उत्पादित ''  , a sentiment with which Samuel Johnson agreed .
Historian Hugh Trevor-Roper said in  1977 कि अधिक थी `` the पहला ग्रेट अंग्रेज जिसको we महसूस कि we जान , the सबसे saintly of humanists , the सबसे इंसान  of saints , the universal man of our cool northern renaissance . ''
Captain Nemo , also known as Prince Dakkar , is a fictional character  invented by the फ्रेंच विज्ञान fiction लेखक जूल्स वर्न  .
Nemo appears in two of Verne 's novels , Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea ( 1870 ) and The Mysterious  द्वीप ( 1874 ) , और makes a कैमियो रूप in वर्न 's खेल यात्रा through  the Impossible ( 1882 ) .
Nemo , one of the  सबसे प्रसिद्ध antiheroes in  fiction , is a mysterious figure .
The son of an  भारतीय राजा , he is a वैज्ञानिक प्रतिभाशाली जो roams the गहराइयों of the समुद्र in उसके पनडुब्बी  , the Nautilus , which was built on a deserted island .
Nemo tries to project a stern  , नियंत्रित विश्वास , लकिन he is चलित by a प्यास लिये प्रतिशोध और a  hatred of imperialism ( particularly the British Empire ) .
He is also wracked by  पछतावा over the मौतों of उसके क्रू  members and even by the deaths of enemy sailors .
Nemo has  appeared in विभिन्न adaptations of वर्न 's novels , सहित films , जहाँ he रै महरूम  portrayed by a number of different actors .
He has furthermore been  अपनाया by अन्य लेखक लिये समावेश in उनके novels , सबसे notably in एलन मूर 's the  League of Extraordinary Gentlemen and Philip José Farmer 's The Other Log of Phileas Fogg .
Listed below are the Major League Baseball teams with  the बेहतरीन ऋतु won-lost रिकॉर्ड in इतिहास , as संकल्पित by जीतना प्रतिशत ( .700 or बेहतर  ) , minimum 120 games played .
ध्वनिक coupler  modem
A modem ( modulator-demodulator ) is a  यंत्र कि modulates an एनालॉग वाहक सिग्नल to encode डिजिटल सूचना , और भी demodulates ऐसे a  carrier signal to decode the transmitted information .
The goal is to produce a signal that can be  transmitted easily और decoded to reproduce  the original digital data .
Modems can be used over any means of transmitting analog  सिग्नल , इससे लाइट emitting  diodes to radio .
The most familiar  उदाहरण is a आवाज़ बैंड मॉडेम कि turns the डिजिटल आंकड़ा of a निजी  computer into modulated electrical signals in the voice frequency range of a telephone channel .
These signals can be transmitted over  टेलीफोन लाइनों और demodulated by another मॉडेम at the receiver  side to recover the digital data .
Modems are generally classified by the  राशि of आंकड़ा वे can भेजें in a दिए ईकाई of समय , प्रायः expressed in बिट्स प्रति दूसरी ( bit/s , or  bps ) , or bytes per second ( B/s ) .
Modems can alternatively be  वर्गीकृत by उनके प्रतीक रेट , measured  in baud .
The baud unit denotes symbols per  दूसरी , or the क्रमांक of टाइम्स प्रति दूसरी the  modem sends a new signal .
For example , the ITU V.21 standard used audio  आवृत्ति शिफ़्ट keying साथ दो संभावित बारंबारता सम्बन्धित to दो पृथक प्रतीकों ( or एक बिट  per symbol ) , to carry 300 bits per second using 300 baud .
By contrast , the original ITU V.22 standard , which was able to  संचारण और प्राप्त चार पृथक प्रतीकों ( दो बिट्स प्रति प्रतीक ) , संभाला 1,200 bit/s by sending 600 प्रतीकों  per second ( 600 baud ) using phase shift keying .
The Declaration of Independence is a statement  अपनाया by the महाद्वीपीय कॉंग्रेस on जुलाई 4 , 1776 , जिससे घोषित कि the तेरह अमरीकी colonies , तब at युद्ध साथ ग्रेट ब्रिटेन  , regarded themselves as independent states , and no longer a part of the British Empire .
Instead they now formed a new  nation—the संयुक्त राज्य  of America .
John Adams was  a नेता in pushing लिये स्वतंत्रता , जिससे  was unanimously approved on July 2 .
A committee had already drafted the formal declaration , to be  तैयार जब कॉंग्रेस voted on स्वतंत्रता  .
Adams persuaded the committee to select Thomas Jefferson to  लिखें the असली ड्राफ्ट of the दस्तावेज़ , जिससे कॉंग्रेस होता  edit to produce the final version .
The Declaration was ultimately a formal  स्पष्टीकरण of क्यों कॉंग्रेस था voted on जुलाई 2 to घोषित स्वतंत्रता इससे ग्रेट ब्रिटेन  , more than a year after the outbreak of the American Revolutionary War .
The national birthday , the Independence  दिन is मनाये on जुलाई 4 , हालांकि  Adams wanted July 2 .
After  ratifying the टेक्स्ट on जुलाई 4 , कॉंग्रेस जारी the घोषणा  of Independence in several forms .
It was initially published as the printed Dunlap broadside  कि थी widely वितरित और  read to the public .
The most famous version of the Declaration , a signed copy that is popularly regarded as the Declaration of  स्वतंत्रता , is प्रदर्शित at the नेशनल अभिलेख in वॉशिंगटन ,  D.C .
हालांकि the wording of the घोषणा थी स्वीकृत  on July 4 , the date of its signing was August 2 .
The original July 4 United States Declaration of  स्वतंत्रता पाण्डुलिपि थी खोया जबकि सब अन्य नक़ल have महरूम  derived from this original document .
The sources and interpretation of the  घोषणा have महरूम  the subject of much scholarly inquiry .
the घोषणा जायज the स्वतंत्रता of the संयुक्त राज्य by लिस्टिंग  colonial grievances against King George III , and by asserting certain natural and legal rights , including a right of revolution .
Having served its original purpose in announcing independence , the text of the  घोषणा थी initially उपेक्षित बाद the अमरीकी क्रान्ति  .
Since then  , it रै आइये to be माना a प्रमुख बयान on  human rights , particularly its second sentence:
We hold these truths to be self-evident , that all men are  निर्मित बराबर , कि वे हैं endowed by उनके निर्माता साथ निश्चित unalienable अधिकारों , कि among ये  are Life , Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness .
इस रै महरूम पुकारा `` एक of the best-known वाक्य in the अंग्रेज़ी  language '' , containing `` the most potent and consequential words in American history . ''
The passage came to represent a moral  मानक to जिससे the संयुक्त राज्य चाहिए नीयत .
This view was notably promoted by Abraham Lincoln , who considered the Declaration to be the foundation of his political philosophy , and  argued कि the घोषणा is a बयान of सिद्धान्त through जिससे the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान चाहिए be interpreted  .
It has inspired  कार्य लिये the अधिकारों of अधिकारहीन  people throughout the world .
The  अर्थव्यवस्था of ग्रीनलैंड can be characterized as छोटी  , mixed and vulnerable .
The present economy consists of a big public sector and comprehensive foreign trade , which has resulted in an  अर्थव्यवस्था साथ अवधि of दमदार विकास , considerable महंगाई , बेरोजगारी समस्याएं और चरम dependence  on capital inflow from Denmark and use of outside , mainly Danish , skilled labor .
GDP per capita is similar to the average European economies but the economy is critically dependent upon substantial support from  the डैनिश सरकारी , जिससे आपूर्तियाँ परिचय हाफ the revenues of the घर नियम सरकारी जो in फेरे employ परिचय 8,000 greenlanders आउट  of a labor force of 40,156 ( Jan. 2012 ) .
बेरोजगारी nonetheless remains ऊँची , साथ the बाकी of the अर्थव्यवस्था निर्भर upon माँग  for exports of shrimp and fish .
हाइड्रोजन is a रासायनिक तत्व  with symbol H and atomic number 1 .
With an atomic weight of ( for hydrogen-1 ) , hydrogen is the lightest element and its  monatomic रूप ( h1 ) is the सबसे abundant रासायनिक  substance , constituting roughly 75 % of the Universe 's baryonic mass .
Non- remnant stars  हैं मुख्यतः रचित of हाइड्रोजन  in its plasma state .
At standard temperature and  दबाव , हाइड्रोजन is a colorless , गंधहीन , tasteless , non-toxic , nonmetallic , अत्यधिक combustible diatomic गैस साथ  the molecular formula H2 .
सबसे of the हाइड्रोजन on धरती is in अणुओं ऐसे as जल  and organic compounds because hydrogen readily forms covalent compounds with most non-metallic elements .
Hydrogen plays a particularly  महत्वपूर्ण भूमिका in acid-base रसायन साथ अनेक प्रतिक्रियाएँ  exchanging protons between soluble molecules .
In ionic compounds , it can take a negative charge  ( an anion ज्ञात as a हाइड्राइड और लिखा as h− ) , or as a positively चार्ज प्रजाति  H+ .
The latter cation is written as though composed of a bare proton , but  in वास्तविकता , हाइड्रोजन cations in ionic यौगिकों सदा occur as अधिक जटिल प्रजाति  .
The most common isotope of  हाइड्रोजन is protium ( नाम rarely प्रयुक्त , प्रतीक 1h ) साथ a सिंगल  proton and no neutrons .
As  the सरलतम अणु ज्ञात , the हाइड्रोजन  atom has been of theoretical use .
For example , as the only neutral atom with an analytic solution to the Schrödinger  समीकरण , the पढ़ाई of the energetics और संबंध of the हाइड्रोजन अणु निभाई a कुंजी भूमिका in the विकास of  quantum mechanics .
Hydrogen gas was first artificially  उत्पादित in the जल्दी 16th सदी  , via the mixing of metals with acids .
In 1766–81 , Henry  कैवेंडिश थी the पहला to recognize कि हाइड्रोजन गैस थी a अलहदा पदार्थ , और कि it produces जल जब burned , a प्रॉपर्टी  which later gave it its name : in Greek , hydrogen means `` water-former '' .
Industrial production is mainly from the steam reforming of  प्राकृतिक गैस , और कम प्रायः इससे अधिक energy-intensive  hydrogen production methods like the electrolysis of water .
Most hydrogen is employed near its production site ,  साथ the दो largest उपयोग होने चट्टान ईंधन प्रसंस्करण ( e.g. , hydrocracking  ) and ammonia production , mostly for the fertilizer market .
Hydrogen is a concern in metallurgy as it can  embrittle अनेक धातुओं , complicating the डिज़ाइन of pipelines  and storage tanks .
Unstoppable is a 2010 American action thriller film directed by  टोनी स्कॉट , लिखा by चिह्नित bomback , और अभिनीत डेंज़ल वॉशिंगटन  and Chris Pine .
The  फिल्मी , loosely आधारित on the real-life csx 8888 घटना , tells the स्टोरी of a runaway  freight train , and the two men ( Washington and Pine ) who manage to stop it .
It  थी स्कॉट 's फाइनल विशेषता फिल्मी पहले  his death in 2012 .
The  फिल्मी थी released in the संयुक्त राज्य और कनाडा on नवम्बर  12 , 2010 , and in the United Kingdom on November 24 , 2010 .
It received  ज़्यादातर अनुकूल समीक्षाएँ इससे फिल्मी आलोचकों ; it garnered a `` certified भैस  '' rating on Rotten Tomatoes based upon aggregated reviews and a rating of `` Generally favorable reviews '' at Metacritic .
The film was nominated for an  अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन ध्वनि संपादन at the 83rd अकादमी  Awards , but lost to Inception .
In photography , bracketing is the general  तकनीक of लेने अनेक गोलियाँ of the वही विषय  using different camera settings .
bracketing is उपयोगी और प्रायः अनुशंसित in परिस्थितियों कि मेक it मुश्किल to obtain a संतोषजनक चित्र साथ a सिंगल शॉट , विशेषकर  when a small variation in exposure parameters has a comparatively large effect on the resulting image .
Autobracketing is automatic  bracketing by using a सेटिंग on the कैमरा to लो अनेक bracketed गोलियाँ  ( in contrast to the photographer altering the settings by hand between each shot ) .
Given the time it  takes to accomplish अनेक गोलियाँ , it is typically , लकिन नहीं सदा  , used for static subjects .
Insulated glazing ( IG ) , more commonly known as double glazing ( or double-pane ,  और increasingly ट्रिपल glazing/pane ) हैं दोगुना or ट्रिपल कांच खिड़की panes अलग by an एयर or अन्य गैस  filled space to reduce heat transfer across a part of the building envelope .
Insulated Glass Units are manufactured with glass in range of thickness from  3 mm to 10 mm or अधिक in खास अनुप्रयोग .
Laminated or tempered  कांच may भी be प्रयुक्त as भाग  of the construction .
सबसे इकाई हैं manufactured साथ the वही मोटाई of कांच प्रयुक्त on दोनो panes लकिन  special applications such as acoustic attenuation or security may require wide ranges of thicknesses to be incorporated in the same unit .
A sectioned  आरेख of a फिक्स्ड insulated चमकीले ईकाई ( igu ) , indicating the  numbering convention used in this article .
Surface # 1 is facing outside , Surface # 2 is the inside surface of the exterior  फलक , सतह # 3 is the बाहर सतह of the आंतरिक फलक , और सतह # 4 is the अंदर सतह  of interior pane .
The window  फ़्रेम is labelled # 5 , a spacer is indicated as # 6 , seals हैं दिखाया in रेड  ( # 7 ) , the internal reveal is on the right hand side ( # 8 ) and the exterior windowsill on the left ( # 9 )
To  reduce shear प्रभाव on the sealed ईकाई ( a प्रमुख कारण of असामयिक विफलता ) , निर्माताओं  use a rule of thumb that permits a difference of 1 mm between the thickness of the panes of glass used in the unit and still maintain the warranty for the unit .
For example , a unit may be  ordered साथ a 4 mm फलक on the  exterior and a 3 mm pane on the interior .
These variations are allowed for  architectural और लागत कारण  .
Other combinations can  be निर्दिष्ट और उत्पादित लकिन the निर्माता  may reserve the right to limit the term of the warranty or refuse to warranty the unit altogether .
For ease of description the surfaces of a double paned  ईकाई हैं नामित according to the following सम्मेलन : सतह # 1 ( facing बाहर ) , सतह # 2 ( अंदर  of outside pane ) , Surface # 3 ( outside of inside pane ) and Surface # 4 ( inside surface of inside pane ) .
applying the सम्बन्धित नामकरण  for triple paned units results in surfaces # 1 through # 6 .
the प्रदर्शन of insulating glazing  can be modified through the use of the following:
A typical  संस्थापना of insulated  glazing windows with uPVC window frames .
Selenium  is a रासायनिक तत्व साथ प्रतीक se और  atomic number 34 .
It is a  अधातु साथ गुण कि हैं इंटरमीडिएट  between those of its periodic table column-adjacent chalcogen elements sulfur and tellurium .
It rarely occurs  in इसके elemental राज्य in प्रकृति , or as  pure ore compounds .
Selenium ( Greek σελήνη selene meaning `` Moon ''  ) थी खोजा in 1817 by jöns याक़ूब berzelius , जो विख्यात the समानता of the नई तत्व to  the previously-known tellurium ( named for the Earth ) .
सेलेनियम is मिला impurely in मेटल sulfide  ores , where it partially replaces the sulfur .
Commercially , selenium is  उत्पादित as a byproduct in the शोधन of ये ores , सबसे  often during copper production .
खनिज कि हैं pure selenide  or selenate compounds are known , but are rare .
The chief  वाणिज्यिक उपयोग लिये सेलेनियम आज हैं in glassmaking  and in pigments .
Selenium is a  सेमीकंडक्टर और  is used in photocells .
Uses  in इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स , एकबार महत्वपूर्ण  , have been mostly supplanted by silicon semiconductor devices .
सेलेनियम continues to be प्रयुक्त in a few प्रकार of dc शक्ति surge  protectors and one type of fluorescent quantum dot .
Selenium salts  हैं विषाक्त in विशाल amounts , लकिन ट्रेस amounts हैं जरुरी लिये  cellular function in many organisms , including all animals .
Selenium is a component of the antioxidant enzymes glutathione peroxidase and thioredoxin reductase (  जिससे indirectly reduce निश्चित oxidized अणुओं in पशु और  some plants ) .
It is also found in three  deiodinase एंजाइमों , जिससे बदलें एक  thyroid hormone to another .
Selenium requirements in plants  differ by प्रजाति , साथ कुछ पौधे requiring अपेक्षाकृत  large amounts , and others apparently requiring none .
The United States presidential election of 2008  थी the 56th quadrennial अध्यक्षीय  election .
It was held on  मंगलवार , नवम्बर 4 , 2008  .
Democrat Barack Obama , then the  जूनियर सीनेटर इससे इलिनोइस , पराजित रिपब्लिकन जॉन मैक्केन  , the senior Senator from Arizona .
As the campaign progressed , the War in Iraq and outgoing Republican President George W. Bush had become increasingly  unpopular , और the major-party उम्मीदवार भागा on a मंच  of change and reform .
Domestic policy  और the अर्थव्यवस्था आखिरकार उभरा as the प्रमुख विषयवस्तु in the पिछला few महीने of the चुनाव अभियान बाद  the onset of the worst recession since the 1930s .
ओबामा होता go on to जीत a निर्णायक विजय over  McCain in both the electoral and popular vote .
Obama received the most votes for a presidential candidate in American  इतिहास , और जीती the लोकप्रिय और चुनावी vote by the largest हाशिया in 12 सालो , as खूब as  the largest percentage of the popular vote for a Democrat in nearly a half-century .
This was the first U.S.  अध्यक्षीय चुनाव in जिससे an अफ़्रीकी अमरीकी थी निर्वाचित , having भी महरूम the पहला in जिससे  an African American won the nomination of either major party .
This election was also notable for being the first time in U.S. history that both major party candidates were sitting U.S .  सीनेटरों , तभी the तीसरा समय ( बाद 1920 और 1960 ) कि कोई बैठे u.s . सीनेटर थी निर्वाचित अध्यक्ष , और तभी the दूसरी समय कि the जीतना अध्यक्ष और वाइस  President ( Obama and Biden ) were both sitting U.S . Senators .
This was also the first election since 1952 in which neither of the major  पार्टियों ' नामांकित थी the लाज़िम अध्यक्ष or वाइस  President .
The Sovereign  प्रिंस or राजकुमारी of मोनाको is the reigning monarch और सिर  of state of the Principality of Monaco .
All princes or princesses have officially taken the name of the  हाउस of grimaldi , लकिन have belonged to विभिन्न अन्य घरों  ( Goyon de Matignon , Polignac ) in male line .
The  reigning प्रिंस is  Albert II .
कल्पना of fragmentation  and then of defragmentation
In the maintenance of  संचिका प्रणालियों , defragmentation is a प्रक्रम कि reduces  the amount of fragmentation .
It does this by physically organizing the contents of the mass  भंडार यंत्र प्रयुक्त to स्टोर फाइलें into the smallest क्रमांक of संलग्न  regions ( fragments ) .
It also attempts to create larger regions of free  स्पेस using compaction to impede the वापसी of fragmentation  .
Some defragmentation utilities try to keep smaller files within a single directory  साथ , as वे हैं प्रायः पहुँचा in अनुक्रम .
Defragmentation is advantageous and relevant to  संचिका प्रणालियों on electromechanical  disk drives .
The  गति of the मुश्किल ड्राइव 's read/write heads over अलग क्षेत्रों of the डिस्क जब accessing fragmented फाइलें  is slower , compared to accessing the entire contents of a non-fragmented file sequentially without moving the read/write heads to seek other fragments .
A service-level agreement ( SLA ) is a part of a  सेवा अनुबंध जहाँ a सेवा is formally पारिभाषित  .
In practice , the term SLA is  sometimes प्रयुक्त to refer to the contracted डिलीवरी समय ( of the सेवा or प्रदर्शन  ) .
As an example , internet service providers will commonly include service level agreements  भीतर the शर्तें of उनके अनुबंध साथ ग्राहक to define the स्तर ( s  ) of service being sold in plain language terms .
In this case the SLA will typically have a technical definition in terms of mean time between failures ( MTBF ) , mean time to repair  or औसत समय to रिकवरी ( mttr ) ; विभिन्न आंकड़ा दरों ; throughput ; जिटर ; or समान measurable विवरण  .
Union Station is a former shopping  मॉल in संघ नगर , जॉर्जिया , in दक्षिणपश्चिम मैट्रो अटलांटा सटा  to Interstate 85 .
After new ownership and renovations in 2006 , the name was changed from  शैनन southpark मॉल in 2007 to संघ स्टेशन मॉल  .
A previous renovation  थी किया in the लेट  1990s .
The mall  रै महरूम बंद चूंकि नवम्बर  2010 .
This map shows the contiguous United States and , in insets at  the निम्नतर बाएँ , the दो राज्य कि हैं नहीं  contiguous .
The  संलग्न संयुक्त राज्य हैं the 48 adjoining u.S. राज्य on the महाद्वीप of उत्तर अमेरिका  that are south of Canada and north of Mexico , plus the District of Columbia .
The term excludes the  राज्य of अलास्का और हवाई , और सब off-shore u.S. territories  and possessions , such as Puerto Rico .
Together , the 48 contiguous states and D.C. occupy a combined area  of , जिससे is 1.58 % of the कुल सतह क्षेत्रफल  of the Earth .
Of this , is land ,  composing 83.65 % of u.S.  land area .
officially , is जल क्षेत्रफल , composing 62.66  % of the nation 's water area .
The 2010 census population was 306,675,006 , composing 99.33 % of the nation 's population ,  और a घनत्व of 103.639 inhabitants/sq mi ( 40.015/km2 ) , compared to 87.264/sq  mi ( 33.692/km2 ) for the nation as a whole .
`` Why '' is the  शीर्षक of a सोंग अंकित by  American country band Rascal Flatts .
It is  the तीसरा सिंगल इससे उनके छठे स्टुडियो  album , Unstoppable .
It was released to radio stations on September 29 , 2009 and  debuted at # 44 on the u.s . बिलबोर्ड us बिलबोर्ड hot देश गीतों चार्ट  for the week of October 10 , 2009 .
It was written  by रोब mathes और एलन shamblin  .
Utilization management is the evaluation of the appropriateness , medical need and efficiency of health care services  प्रक्रियाओं और सुविधाएं according to स्थापित मापदण्ड or दिशानिर्देश और अंतर्गत the प्रावधानों  of an applicable health benefits plan .
Typically it includes new  क्रियाएँ or निर्णय आधारित upon the विश्लेषण  of a case .
Utilization management describes proactive  प्रक्रियाओं , सहित निर्वहन नियोजन , संयुक्त नियोजन , pre-certification  and clinical case appeals .
It also covers proactive processes , such as concurrent  नैदानिक समीक्षाएँ और पीर समीक्षाएँ , as खूब as appeals introduced by the प्रदाता , payer  or patient .
As pre-certification and concurrent review of cases grew , utilization  प्रबन्धन spun आउट of utilization पुनर्विलोकन  .
While not synonymous ,  स्वास्थ्य परवाह पेशेवर tend to उपयोग the शर्तें as  interchangeable .
The difference is utilization  प्रबन्धन is और intends to मैनेज स्वास्थ्य परवाह मामले efficiently और लागत effectively पहले और दौरान स्वास्थ्य  care administration .
Utilization review is  अधिक considering whether स्वास्थ्य परवाह थी  appropriately applied after it was administered .
There are four basic techniques in  utilization management:
माँग प्रबन्धन
utilization  Review
Case  प्रबन्धन
बीमारी प्रबन्धन
The Outsiders is a coming-of-age novel by  S. E. hinton , पहला प्रकाशित in 1967  by Viking Press .
Hinton was  15 जब वो प्रारंभ लिखने the अनोखा , लकिन किया सबसे of  the work when she was sixteen and a junior in high school .
Hinton  थी 18 जब the किताब  was published .
The book follows two rival groups , the Greasers and the Socs ( pronounced by the author as , short for  socials ) , जो हैं विभाजित by उनके socioeconomic  status .
The book takes  प्लेस in तुलसा , ओक्लाहोमा  , in 1965 , but it is never stated in the book .
A film adaptation was produced in  1983 , और a little-known short-lived टेलीविज़न श्रेणी appeared in 1990 , picking up जहाँ  the movie left off .
The  संयुक्त राज्य हाउस of प्रतिनिधि is एक of the दो घरों of  the United States Congress ( a bicameral legislature ) .
it is अक्सर referred  to as the House .
the अन्य हाउस  is the Senate .
The composition and powers of the House are  स्थापित in आलेख एक of the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान  .
The major power of the House is to pass federal legislation that affects the entire country although its bills must also be passed by the Senate and further agreed to  by the u.S. अध्यक्ष पहले बनने विधि ( जबतक दोनो the हाउस और सीनेट re-pass the विधान साथ a two-thirds बहुमत in प्रत्येक कक्ष  ) .
The House  रै अनेक विशेष शक्तियां : the शक्ति to initiate आय बिल्स , to impeach  officials , and to elect the U.S. President in case there is no majority in the Electoral College .
Each U.S.  राज्य is represented in the हाउस in proportion  to its population but is entitled to at least one representative .
The most  populous राज्य , कैलिफ़ोर्निया , फिलहाल रै  53 representatives .
The total  क्रमांक of मतदान प्रतिनिधि  is fixed by law at 435 .
Each  प्रतिनिधि serves लिये a  two-year term .
The Speaker of the United States House of Representatives , who presides over the chamber , is elected by the members of the House , and is  इसलिए traditionally the नेता of the हाउस लोकतांत्रिक caucus or the  House Republican Conference , whichever party has more voting members .
The House meets in the  दक्षिण wing of the संयुक्त राज्य  Capitol .
A supply chain is  दरअसल a जटिल और डायनेमिक सप्लाई  and demand network .
( cf  . wieland/wallenburg  , 2011 )
A supply chain is a system of  संगठन , लोगों , क्रियाएँ , सूचना , और संसाधन शामिल in चलती  a product or service from supplier to customer .
Supply chain activities transform  प्राकृतिक संसाधन , कच्चा सामग्री , और components into a समाप्त  product that is delivered to the end customer .
In sophisticated  सप्लाई कड़ी प्रणालियों , प्रयुक्त उत्पाद  may re-enter the supply chain at any point where residual value is recyclable .
Supply  जंजीरों कड़ी मान  chains .
`` Purple Haze '' is a song written and recorded by Jimi  हेंड्रिक्स in 1967 , released as the दूसरी सिंगल by the जिमि हेंड्रिक्स अनुभव  in both the United Kingdom and the United States .
It later appeared on the  अमरीकी संस्करण of the बैंड 's  1967 album Are You Experienced .
`` Purple Haze '' has become one of the ``  archetypical साइकेडेलिक ड्रग गीतों of the sixties '' .
`` Purple Haze 's '' guitar virtuosic  तकनीकों होता be emulated by अनेक मेटल guitarists  .
A close up picture of a  गैंडा स्किन  .
Skin is the soft  बाहरी covering of vertebrates  .
Other animal coverings such as  the सन्धिपाद बहि have अलग developmental  origin , structure and chemical composition .
The  क्रियाशील cutaneous अर्थात् `` of the स्किन  '' ( from Latin cutis , skin ) .
In mammals , the  स्किन is the largest अंग of the integumentary प्रणाली बना up of अनेक परतों  of ectodermal tissue , and guards the underlying muscles , bones , ligaments and internal organs .
Skin of a different nature  exists in amphibians , सरीसृपों , और पक्षियों  .
All mammals have some hair on  उनके स्किन , भी समुद्री स्तनधारियों जिससे appear to be hairless  .
the स्किन अंतरफलक साथ the पर्यावरण  and is the first line of defense from external factors .
For example , the skin plays a key role in  protecting the देह विरूद्ध pathogens  and excessive water loss .
Its other functions are insulation , temperature regulation ,  सनसनी , और the उत्पादन of  vitamin D folates .
Severely damaged skin may  चंगा by forming scar  tissue .
This is  sometimes discoloured  and depigmented .
The thickness of skin also  varies इससे स्थान to स्थान on an  organism .
In humans for example , the skin located under the eyes and around the eyelids  is the thinnest स्किन in the देह at 0.5 mm मोटा ,  and is one of the first areas to show signs of aging such as `` crows feet '' and wrinkles .
The skin on the palms and the soles of the feet  is 4 mm मोटा और the thickest स्किन  in the body .
Fur is  घना  hair .
Primarily ,  फर augments the इन्सुलेशन the स्किन provides लकिन can भी serve as  a secondary sexual characteristic or as camouflage .
On some animals , the skin is very  मुश्किल और मोटा , और can be processed  to create leather .
सरीसृपों और मछली have मुश्किल सुरक्षात्मक तराजू on  their skin for protection , and birds have hard feathers , all made of tough β- keratins .
Amphibian skin is not a  दमदार अवरोध to ड्योढ़ी of रसायन और is प्रायः विषय  to osmosis and diffusive forces .
For example , a frog sitting in an anesthetic  समाधान होता be sedated जल्दी , as the रासायनिक diffuses through इसके स्किन  .
थामस स्कॉट
The Rev . Thomas  स्कॉट ( 1747-1821 ) थी an influential उपदेशक और लेखक जो is प्रधानतया ज्ञात  for his best-selling work A Commentary On The Whole Bible and The Force of Truth , and as one of the founders of the Church Missionary Society .
Daniel Radcliffe , who portrays Harry Potter , has been the icon of  the फिल्मी श्रेणी चूंकि the रिलीज of the पहला  film in 2001 .
Some of the most renowned actors of the  संयुक्त किंगडम और आयरलैंड have voiced or portrayed वर्ण appearing  in the Harry Potter film series based on the book series by J. K. Rowling .
डेनियल radcliffe , रुपर्ट grint और एम्मा वाटसन have निभाई  Harry Potter , Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger in all the films .
When they were cast  तभी radcliffe था previously acted  in a film .
Complementing them on screen are such actors as Helena Bonham Carter , Jim Broadbent , John Cleese , Robbie Coltrane , Warwick Davis , Ralph Fiennes , Michael  gambon , ब्रेंडन gleeson , रिचर्ड ग्रीफिथ , रिचर्ड हैरिस , जॉन ठेस , जेसन isaacs , miriam margolyes , हेलेन mccrory , गेरी oldman , एलन rickman , फिओना शॉ , मैगी स्मिथ , टिमोथी spall , imelda staunton , दाउद thewlis , एम्मा  Thompson , and Julie Walters , among others .
Thirteen actors have appeared as the same  अक्षर in सब आठ films of the मताधिकार  .
Some well-known British  अभिनेताओं जो have नहीं appeared in  the series , are asked in jest why they have not been cast .
When David Yates was directing the fifth film , Bill Nighy , who had  previously collaborated साथ येट्स on तीन of उसके टेलीविज़न प्रोजेक्ट , कहा कि he joked साथ येट्स कि संभवतः अभी  he would n't be the only actor in England who had n't been in Harry Potter .
``  लकिन nobody पुकारा '' , nighy  added .
But in 2009 ,  येट्स डाल nighy as मंत्री of जादू rufus scrimgeour in  Deathly Hallows .
Nighy said , `` I am no longer the only English actor not  to be in हैरी कुम्हार और i am बहुत प्रसन्न . ''
Jude Law has  quipped , `` nobody 's पूछा  me .
i थी a बिट too बूढ़ा  for Harry '' .
When a reporter compared potions professor Horace Slughorn 's obsession with famous names to the series ' connection to `` every notable British actor , '' Jim  broadbent , जो plays slughorn कहा , `` खूब , नहीं प्रत्येक कर्ता  gets invited .
I know some  जो हैं स्टिल प्रतीक्षारत  . ''
With the exception of Chris Columbus , each director has had a cameo appearance in his respective film :  अलफोंसो cuarón appears as a जादूगर पकड़कर a मोमबत्ती दौरान a झाँकी at the तीन broomsticks in कैदी of azkaban ; माइक newell is सुना briefly as the रेडियो प्रस्तुतकर्ता  in Frank Bryce 's house in Goblet of Fire ; and David Yates features as a wizard within a magical moving portrait in Order of the Phoenix .
Producer David Heyman also  makes a कैमियो रूप as a जादूगर प्रदर्शित भीतर  a magical moving portrait in the third film , Prisoner of Azkaban .
J. K. रोलिंग दिया a वाक दौरान the संसार प्रीमियर of the फाइनल फिल्मी in the  series— Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows Part 2 —on 7 July 2011 in London , England .
She announced that she could never have dreamt of the talented actors  और अभिनेत्रियों जो have appeared in सब the हैरी कुम्हार फिल्मों  .
Rowling also announced that there are seven Harry Potter film series cast members , who she refers to as `` The Big  सात '' , वे हैं डेनियल radcliffe , रुपर्ट grint , एम्मा वाटसन , tom felton , मैथ्यू लुईस  , Evanna Lynch and Bonnie Wright .
The list below is sorted by film and character , as  कुछ वर्ण have महरूम portrayed by अनेक अभिनेताओं  .
कुंजी
( v ) indicates the actor or actress lent  तभी उसके or उसके आवाज़ लिये उसके or उसके फिल्मी अक्षर
( y ) indicates the actor or actress  portrayed the भूमिका in a फ्लैशबैक झाँकी or जब the अक्षर  was young .
( f ) indicates the actor or actress did  नहीं appear in कोई नई फुटेज लिये the फिल्मी ;  footage from an earlier film or films was used .
A light grey cell ( such as the one in the `` Charity  burbage '' पंक्ति in the `` पारस 's स्टोन '' कालम ) indicates  the character was not in the film adaptation .
A twelve-step program is a set of guiding principles ( accepted by members as 'spiritual principles , '  आधारित on the स्वीकृत साहित्य ) outlining a कोर्स of कार्रवाई लिये रिकवरी इससे , मजबूरी ,  or other behavioral problems .
Originally proposed by Alcoholics  बेनाम ( aa ) as a विधि of रिकवरी इससे alcoholism , the बारह कदम यहूद पहला प्रकाशित in the किताब alcoholics बेनाम :  The Story of How More Than One Hundred Men Have Recovered from Alcoholism in 1939 .
The  विधि थी तब adapted और became the  foundation of other twelve-step programs .
As summarized by the  अमरीकी मनोवैज्ञानिक संघ , the प्रक्रम  involves the following:
admitting that  एक can नहीं कंट्रोल एक  's addiction or compulsion ;
recognizing a higher  शक्ति कि can दे शक्ति ;
examining पास्ट त्रुटियाँ साथ the सहायता of a प्रायोजक  ( experienced member ) ;
making  amends लिये ये  errors ;
learning to live  a नई जीवन  with a new code of behavior ;
helping others who  suffer इससे the वही व्यसनों or compulsions  .
Witness impeachment , in the law of evidence of the United States , is the  प्रक्रम of कॉलिंग into सवाल the विश्वसनीयता of an व्यक्तिगत जो is testifying in  a trial .
The Federal Rules of Evidence contain the rules  शासी महाभियोग in संघीय  courts .
Party leaders and whips of the United  राज्य हाउस of प्रतिनिधि हैं निर्वाचित by उनके संबंधित  parties in a closed-door caucus by secret ballot and are also known as floor leaders .
The U.S. House of Representatives  करता नहीं officially उपयोग the पद `` अल्पसंख्यक नेता '' हालांकि the  media frequently do .
The House instead  उपयोग the शर्तें `` रिपब्लिकन नेता  '' or `` Democratic Leader '' depending on which party holds a minority of seats .
The current House Majority Leader is Republican Eric  cantor , जबकि the वर्तमान हाउस अल्पसंख्यक नेता  is Democrat Nancy Pelosi .
The current House Majority  चाबुक is रिपब्लिकन केविन मैकार्थी , जबकि the वर्तमान हाउस  Minority Whip is Democrat Steny Hoyer .
Following the  outbreak of संसार युद्ध i in 1914 , the जर्मनी फौज खोली the पश्चिमी सामने by  first invading Luxembourg and Belgium , then gaining military control of important industrial regions in France .
The tide of the advance was  dramatically turned साथ the बैटल  of the Marne .
Following the race to the sea , both sides dug in along a meandering line of fortified trenches ,  stretching इससे the उत्तर समुद्र to the स्विस frontier  with France .
This line remained  essentially अपरिवर्तित लिये सबसे of the  war .
Between  1915 और 1917 वहीँ यहूद अनेक  major offensives along this front .
The attacks  employed विशाल तोपखाने  bombardments and massed infantry advances .
However , a combination of entrenchments , machine gun nests , barbed wire , and  तोपखाने repeatedly inflicted कठोर  casualties on the attackers and counterattacking defenders .
As a  परिणाम , no significant  advances were made .
Among the most costly of these offensives were the Battle of Verdun with a combined [ estimated ]  700,000 मुर्दे , the बैटल of the somme साथ अधिक than [ an अनुमानित ] लाख हताहत , और the बैटल of passchendaele साथ  roughly [ an estimated ] 600,000 casualties .
In an effort to break the  deadlock , इस सामने देखी the परिचय of नई सैन्य  technology , including poison gas , aircraft and tanks .
But it was only after the adoption of  improved tactics कि कुछ उपाधि of गतिशीलता थी लौटी  .
The German  वसन्त अप्रिय of 1918 थी बना संभावित by the सन्धि of brest-litovsk  that marked the end of the conflict on the Eastern Front .
Using  the recently-introduced घुसपैठ tactics , the जर्मनी सेना उन्नत nearly to the वेस्ट , जिससे  marked the deepest advance by either side since 1914 and very nearly succeeded in forcing a breakthrough .
In spite of  the generally stagnant प्रकृति of इस  front , this theater would prove decisive .
The inexorable advance of the Allied armies  दौरान the दूसरी हाफ of 1918 persuaded the जर्मनी कमांडरों कि  defeat was inevitable , and the government was forced to sue for conditions of an armistice .
The terms of peace were agreed upon with the signing of  the सन्धि of versailles in 1919  .
The following  is a सूची of पुनरावर्ती और नाबालिग वर्ण in the डिज़्नी चैनल असली  Series The Suite Life of Zack & Cody .
These characters  यहूद regularly घुमाया , प्रायः disappearing लिये long  periods during the series .
The  following सूची of वर्ण रै महरूम sorted  alphabetically , by first name .
Some of the  वर्ण था no पिछला नाम और सबसे यहूद commonly referred to by उनके पहला  name so this appeared to be the most logical method .
In the case of  शेफ़ पाउलो , जो था no ज्ञात पहला नाम  , they have been listed by title .
The First Lady of the United  राज्य ( flotus ) is the होस्टेस of  the White House .
Because this position is traditionally filled by the wife of the  अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य , the शीर्षक is सबसे प्रायः लागू to the  wife of a sitting president .
The current First Lady  is मिशेल ओबामा  .
After her husband Barack Obama was re-elected  on नवम्बर 6 , 2012 , वो is अनुसूचित  to serve until January 20 , 2017 .
Septic shock is a medical  कंडीशन as a परिणाम of कठोर संक्रमण और सेप्सिस  , though the microbe may be systemic or localized to a particular site .
it can कारण अनेक अंग dysfunction सिंड्रोम  ( formerly known as multiple organ failure ) and death .
Its most common victims are children ,  immunocompromised individuals , और the बुजुर्ग , as उनके प्रतिरक्षा प्रणालियों  can not deal with the infection as effectively as those of healthy adults .
अक्सर , मरीजों कष्ट इससे  septic shock are cared for in intensive care units .
The  मृत्यु रेट इससे सेप्टिक शॉक  is approximately 25–50 % .
Kevin Brereton ( born February  20 , 1972 ) , बेहतर ज्ञात by उसके स्टेज नाम k-os ( ; ``  chaos '' ) , is a Canadian rapper , singer , songwriter and record producer .
His given name may also be  cited as kheaven , a स्पेलिंग  he later adopted .
The alias `` k-os '' , spelled with a lower  मामला `` k '' , थी intended to be कम आक्रामक than the pseudonyms of अन्य rappers  whose names were all upper case , such as KRS-One .
It is an acronym for ``  ज्ञान of स्वः , '' हालांकि in a बाद इंटरव्यू he कहा कि it originally stood लिये `` केविन 's  Original Sound . '' k-os ' music incorporates a wide variety of music genres , including rap , funk , rock , and reggae .
The lyrics frequently focus on promoting a `` positive message '' while at times expressing criticism of  मुख्यधारा हिप हॉप संस्कृति 's obsession साथ धन  , fame and glorification of violence .
A musician as well as a producer  , k-os रै लिखा और उत्पादित nearly प्रत्येक भाग of सब चार  of his albums .
k-os usually performs  साथ a सजीव बैंड , कुछ कि is uncommon  in the hip hop genre .
He  sometimes plays गिटार और कुंजीपटल दोनो दौरान  live performances and in the studio .
k-os received his  पहला musical एक्सपोज़र साथ  the single `` Musical Essence '' , released in 1993 .
After the release of his second single ``  वृद्धि जैसे the सूर्य '' in 1996 , he withdrew इससे the उद्योग क्युकी he थी असंतुष्ट  with his musical style .
He reappeared briefly in 1999 and  released उसके डेब्यू एल्बम  Exit in 2002 .
The album received  धनात्मक समीक्षाएँ लकिन बेची अपेक्षाकृत  few copies .
He released his second album Joyful Rebellion in 2004 , which  प्राप्त प्लेटिनम औकात in कनाडा  .
A third album , , was released in 2006 and  भी गई प्लेटिनम  .
उसके चौथी  album , Yes !
, was  released in 2009  .
His fifth album  ब्लैक on सुनहरे थी released in  2013 .
The official 2007  संस्करण of the  UCC .
Even  the गोपनीय अशिष्ट मसौदा of the ucc यहूद saved  and published as a 10-volume set .
The Uniform Commercial Code ( UCC or the Code ) , first published in 1952 , is  एक of a क्रमांक of वर्दी अधिनियमों कि have महरूम promulgated in संयोजन साथ प्रयत्न to harmonize the विधि of बिक्री और अन्य वाणिज्यिक ट्रांजेक्शन in सब 50 राज्य भीतर the संयुक्त  States of America .
Multi-pitch climbing is the ascent of climbing  रूट साथ एक or अधिक stops at a belay  station .
Each section of actual climbing  between stops at the belay  stations is called a pitch .
The leader ascends the  पिच , रखकर गियर और stopping to लंगर  themselves to the belay station .
The reason for the  stops can be संकल्पित by चुनाव ,  convention or necessity .
लिये example:
the रस्सी is too छोटी to do the संपूर्ण  route in one pitch ( necessity ) .
The leader  रै चलाएं आउट of सुरक्षात्मक गियर  ( necessity ) .
There is a  सुविधाजनक protectable कगार , or फिक्स्ड bolts लगाई by पिछला चढना , at the स्थान लिये a belay  station ( convention ) .
The leader chooses to rest or  एक्सचेंज लीड पहले the अगला खण्ड of the  climb ( choice ) .
The general  purpose of ये stops is to allow the दूसरी to ascend to the पाइंट of the सीसे climber जबकि collecting  the protective gear from the route in the course of the lead climber 's ascent .
At the belay station , the  सुरक्षात्मक गियर is एकत्रित , संभवतः exchanged to a नई नेता , और the नेता  of the next pitch ascends the route .
A diagram showing an I Formation on  ठोकर और a 4-3 गठन on रक्षा
In  अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल ,  each team has eleven players on the field at one time .
the विशिष्ट भूमिका कि a खिलाड़ी  takes on the field is called their position .
अंतर्गत the आधुनिक नियम of अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल , टीमों हैं अनुमत असीमित  subsititutions , that is teams may change any number of players after any play .
This has resulted in the  विकास of तीन `` platoons '' of खिलाड़ी , the ठोकर ( the टोली साथ the बॉल , जो is trying to स्कोर  ) , the defense ( the team trying to prevent the other team from scoring , and to take the ball from them ) , and the special teams ( who play in kicking situations ) .
Within those platoons , various  विशिष्ट स्थितियाँ मौजूद depending on  what the player 's main job is .
The Controlled Substances Act ( CSA )  थी enacted into विधि by the कॉंग्रेस of the संयुक्त राज्य as शीर्षक ii of the व्यापक  Drug Abuse Prevention and Control Act of 1970 .
The CSA is the federal U.S. drug policy  अंतर्गत जिससे the manufacture , importation , कब्ज़ा , उपयोग और वितरण  of certain substances is regulated .
The Act also served as the national implementing legislation  लिये the सिंगल सम्मेलन on narcotic  Drugs .
The legislation created five Schedules ( classifications ) , with  varying योग्यता लिये a पदार्थ to be शामिल in प्रत्येक  .
Two federal agencies , the Drug Enforcement Administration and the Food and Drug Administration , determine which substances are added to or removed from the various schedules , though the statute passed by Congress created the  आरंभिक लिस्टिंग , और कॉंग्रेस रै sometimes अनुसूचित अन्य substances through विधान ऐसे as the hillory J. farias और सामन्था reid date-rape रोकथाम अधिनियम of 2000 , जिससे लगाई गामा hydroxybutyrate  in Schedule I . Classification decisions are required to be made on criteria including potential for abuse ( an undefined term ) , currently accepted medical use in treatment in the United States , and international treaties .
The Wayne Route 23 Transit Center is a New Jersey Transit park-and-ride station in Wayne  , नई जर्सी साथ the montclair-boonton लकीर कि provides बस सेवा to नई यॉर्क नगर और विभिन्न अन्य अंक in the क्षेत्रफल as खूब as montclair-boonton लकीर ट्रैन सेवा to नई यॉर्क , hoboken , और  intermediate points along the line between Hackettstown and Montclair State University .
It is located off of the southbound lanes of New Jersey Route 23 on West Belt Road , near  the इंटरचेंज जहाँ रूट 23 , अंतरराज्यीय 80 , और u.S. रूट 46 मिलें , आरपार इससे the willowbrook  Mall .
The station opened in January 2008 and  रै 1,000 पार्किंग स्पेसेस  .
New Jersey Transit  intends लिये इस संयुक्त रेल और बस स्टेशन to become an `` interceptor स्टेशन  , '' that will help relieve the habitual congestion at the West Belt Road Interchange , where the three major highways meet .
In addition , the construction of the station was meant to also ease the congestion at what was then Route 23 Park & Ride , a bus depot on Route 23 North that has since been  renamed माँ 's पार्क & सवारी , और the willowbrook मॉल पार्क & सवारी ; the now-mother 's साईट था सीमित पार्किंग जबकि njt थी having ट्रबल  with overfull parking areas at Willowbrook .
The Wayne Township bus  गैरेज is स्तिथ  on the opposite side of Route 23 .
There has been a proposal  to निर्माण a पार्किंग डेक साथ another हजार धब्बे और develop  the land at the station .
In addition to Montclair-Boonton trains , the Transit Center is  परोसा by the following नई जर्सी पारगमन बस लकीरs:
75  to न्यूर्क penn स्टेशन  and Butler
194 to Port Authority  बस टर्मिनल और butler/newfoundland
198 to Port Authority Bus Terminal and  विलियम paterson विश्वविद्यालयों
324 to Port  प्राधिकार और वेन रूट  23
748 to Willowbrook Mall and  paterson
The at sign @ is also commonly called the at symbol , ampersat , apetail or commercial at  in english—and कम commonly a चौड़ी दायरा of  other terms .
The fact that there is no single word in English for the symbol has  prompted कुछ लेखक to उपयोग the फ्रेंच arobase or स्पेनी और पुर्तगाली arroba—or to सिक्का नई शब्द ऐसे  as asperand , ampersat—but none of these has achieved wide currency .
Originally an accounting and commercial invoice abbreviation meaning `` at the rate  of '' ( e.g . 7 विजेट @ $ 2 = $ 14 ) , it थी नहीं शामिल on the कुंजीपटल of the earliest commercially कामयाब typewriters  , but was on at least one 1889 model and the very successful Underwood models from the `` Underwood No . 5 '' in 1900 onward .
It is now  universally शामिल on कंप्यूटर  keyboards .
In recent years , its meaning has grown to  शामिल the भाव of होने `` स्तिथ at , '' `` और , '' or `` निर्देशित at '' , विशेषकर in ईमेल पता  and social media , particularly Twitter .
the चिह्नित  is encoded at .
The  catcher in the rye  is a 1951 novel by J. D. Salinger .
Originally  प्रकाशित लिये वयस्कों , it रै चूंकि become लोकप्रिय साथ adolescent  readers for its themes of teenage angst and alienation .
It has been translated  into लगभग सब of the संसार  's major languages .
Around 250,000 copies are sold each year with total sales  of अधिक than 65 लाख किताबे .
The novel 's protagonist and  antihero , होल्डन caulfield , रै become an प्रतीक लिये  teenage rebellion .
The novel was included on Times 2005 list of the 100 best  english-language novels लिखा चूंकि 1923 , और it थी नामित by आधुनिक पुस्तकालयों और इसके पाठक as  one of the 100 best English-language novels of the 20th century .
It has  महरूम अक्सर challenged in the संयुक्त राज्य और अन्य  countries for its liberal use of profanity and portrayal of sexuality .
It also deals with  जटिल मुद्दे of पहचान , belonging  , connection , and alienation .
skeletal मांसपेशियां होमो  sapiens
This is a table of  मांसपेशियां of the इंसान anatomy  .
वहीँ हैं लगभग 642 skeletal मांसपेशियां भीतर the ठेठ इंसान , और लगभग प्रत्येक मांसपेशी constitutes एक भाग  of a pair of identical bilateral muscles , found on both sides , resulting in approximately 320 pairs of muscles , as presented in this article .
Nevertheless , the exact number is difficult to define because different sources group muscles differently  , e.g . regarding कया is पारिभाषित as अलग भाग of a सिंगल मांसपेशी or  as several muscles .
Examples  दायरा इससे 640 to  850 .
The muscles of the human body can be categorized into a number of groups which include muscles  relating to the सिर और गर्दन , मांसपेशियां of the धड़ or ट्रंक , मांसपेशियां of the अपर limbs , और मांसपेशियां of the निम्नतर limbs  .
The action  refers to the कार्रवाई of प्रत्येक मांसपेशी इससे  the standard anatomical position .
In other positions ,  अन्य क्रियाएँ may be performed  .
Bad Girls Club ( BGC ) is an American  वास्तविकता टेलीविज़न श्रेणी निर्मित by जोनाथन मरे लिये the ऑक्सीजन टेलीविज़न  station .
The show centers on seven feisty and mischievous women with different  पृष्ठभूमि और personalities , जो have a क्रमांक of मनोवैज्ञानिक और behavioral  problems .
They are  introduced to the दिखाएँ बंद उनके घातक बर्ताव  and accomplish specific goals .
The cast , deemed `` bad girls '' , enjoy a luxurious  जीवनशैली in a ठीक mansion लिये तीन महीने , दौरान जिससे वे जरूर obey  specified rules .
Their lives inside – and outside –  of the हाउस हैं chronicled और अंकित by the उत्पादन  team .
The Bad  लड़कियों क्लबों is ब्रॉडकास्ट in पाँच देशों ( संयुक्त राज्य ,  Netherlands , Australia , Hungary , and Sweden ) .
It has received negative reviews from critics , who  मानना the दिखाएँ promotes हिंसा by adolescent दर्शक  .
Furthermore , several cast members made  विवादास्पद remarks जिससे outraged  many viewers .
The format of the show  रै बदला इससे जल्दी सीज़न  .
If a `` bad girl '' breaks a  नियम , वो is evicted इससे the दिखाएँ और , if it is जल्दी  in the season , replaced by a new `` bad girl '' .
There have been nine complete seasons of The  ख़राब लड़कियों क्लबों , साथ the दसवाँ ऋतु फिलहाल airing  .
The fourth season had the highest ratings  in the दिखाएँ 's इतिहास , बनने इसके  `` breakthrough season '' .
There have been  तीन spin-offs of the ख़राब  Girls Club .
One of them , Love Games : Bad  लड़कियों need प्रेम too , जहाँ पास्ट डाल सदस्यों तलाश सच्चा  love , has gained high ratings .
Oxygen has also released  a मोबाईल खेल , कॉमिक स्ट्रिप और merchandise  to promote the show .
Of the 92  प्रतियोगी , केरी harvick ( of ऋतु एक ) थी a कामयाब  country singer before the show .
tanisha थामस ( of ऋतु दो  ) later hosted Oxygen 's OxygenLive !
and the subsequent seasons  of प्रेम खेल : ख़राब लड़कियों  Need Love Too .
Thomas , who has been dubbed the ``  गॉडमदर '' to सब प्रतियोगी , रै  her own television documentary entitled Tanisha Gets Married .
As of  ऋतु 8 वो 's महरूम the मेजबान of  the reunion specials .
The Iowa Senate is the upper house of the  आयोवा सामान्य सभा  .
There are 50 seats in the Iowa Senate ,  representing 50 single-member जिले आरपार the राज्य साथ populations of लगभग 60,927 प्रति  constituency , .
Each Senate district is  रचित of दो हाउस जिले  .
The Senate  meets at the आयोवा राज्य  Capitol in Des Moines .
Unlike the lower house , the Iowa  हाउस of प्रतिनिधि , सीनेटरों serve four-year  terms , with half of the Senate staggered for re-election every two years .
There  हैं no पद हद  for the Senate .
mechanical मरम्मत
Maintenance , repair , and operations ( MRO ) or maintenance , repair , and overhaul involves  फिक्सिंग कोई sort of mechanical , plumbing or विद्युत यंत्र चाहिए it become आउट of अनुक्रम or टूटा ( ज्ञात as मरम्मत , unscheduled or casualty  maintenance ) .
It also includes performing routine actions which keep the device in  working अनुक्रम ( ज्ञात as अनुसूचित मेंटेनेंस ) or prevent ट्रबल इससे arising (  preventive maintenance ) .
MRO may be defined as , `` All actions which have the objective of retaining or  restoring an मद in or to a राज्य  in which it can perform its required function .
The actions include the combination of all technical and  सम्बन्धित प्रशासनिक , managerial , और पर्यवेक्षण क्रियाएँ . ''
MRO operations can  be categorised by whether the उत्पाद remains the प्रॉपर्टी of the ग्राहक , i.e . a सेवा is होने offered , or whether the  product is bought by the reprocessing organisation and sold to any customer wishing to make the purchase ( Guadette , 2002 ) .
In the former case it may be a  backshop आपरेशन भीतर a larger संगठन or छोटी  operation .
The former of these represents a closed loop supply chain and  प्रायः रै the पैमाना of मेंटेनेंस  , repair or of the product .
The latter of the  categorisations is an खोलें लूप सप्लाई कड़ी और is typified  by refurbishment and remanufacture .
The main characteristic of the  बंद लूप प्रणाली is कि the माँग लिये a उत्पाद is matched साथ the सप्लाई  of a used product .
neglecting एसेट write-offs और असाधारण क्रियाएँ the कुल जनसांख्यिकी of the  product between the customer and the service provider remains constant .
Prince William , Duke of Cambridge ( William Arthur Philip Louis ; born 21 June 1982 ) , is  the elder बेटे of चार्ल्स , प्रिंस of वेल्स , और डायना , राजकुमारी of वेल्स , और third-eldest  grandchild of Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip , Duke of Edinburgh .
He is second in the line of succession , behind his father , to the thrones of sixteen independent  sovereign राज्य ज्ञात as the राष्ट्रमंडल realms : the संयुक्त किंगडम , कनाडा , ऑस्ट्रेलिया , नई जीलैंड , जमैका , बारबाडोस , the बहामा , हरा , पापुआ नई गिनी , the सुलेमान आइलैंड्स  , Tuvalu , Saint Lucia , Saint Vincent and the Grenadines , Belize , Antigua and Barbuda , and Saint Kitts and Nevis .
Prince William was educated at four schools in the United  किंगडम और प्राप्त a उपाधि इससे the विश्वविद्यालयों  of St Andrews .
He spent parts of a gap year in  चिली , बेलीज़ , तंजानिया , और कीनिया जहाँ he रै जिया और holidayed  several times .
Prince William has also taken  kiswahili अध्ययन at विश्वविद्यालयों in कीनिया  and Tanzania .
He was  commissioned as a लेफ्टिनेंट in the ब्लूज़ और रॉयल्स रेजीमेंट of the household प्यादे —serving  with his brother Prince Harry —and , two years later , earned his wings by completing pilot training at Royal Air Force College Cranwell .
In 2009 , he transferred to the Royal Air Force ,  थी प्रचारित to उड़ान लेफ्टिनेंट और underwent हेलीकाप्टर उड़ती प्रशिक्षण  in order to become a full-time pilot with the Search and Rescue Force .
In 2010 , he completed his general and special-to-type helicopter training and went on  to raf घाटी on no . 22 स्क्वाड्रन performing co-pilot कर्तव्य on फलक a समुद्र किंग  search and rescue helicopter .
Prince William married his longtime girlfriend ,  कैथरीन मिडलटन , on 29 अप्रैल 2011  at Westminster Abbey .
Hours prior to his wedding ,  प्रिंस विलियम थी निर्मित ड्यूक of कैम्ब्रिज , अर्ल  of Strathearn , and Baron Carrickfergus .
DeAndre Cortez Way ( born July 28 , 1990 ) , better known by his stage name  soulja लड़के बताना 'em , or बस soulja लड़के , is an अमरीकी rapper , रिकार्ड निर्माता , कर्ता , और  entrepreneur .
In September 2007 , his  सिंगल `` crank कि ( soulja लड़के ) `` पहुँचे क्रमांक  one on the Billboard Hot 100 .
The  सिंगल थी initially self-published on the अंतरजाल , और  it later became a number-one hit in the United States for seven non-consecutive weeks starting in September 2007 .
On August 17 Way was listed at # 18 on the  फोर्ब्स सूची of hip-hop नकदी किंग्स of 2010 कमाई $ 7 लाख लिये कि  year .
Way has currently released three studio albums and one independent album : his debut  स्टुडियो एल्बम souljaboytellem.com ( 2007 ) थी certified प्लेटिनम  by the RIAA .
However , his next two albums , iSouljaBoyTellem ( 2008 ) and The DeAndre Way ( 2010 ) did not match  the वाणिज्यिक कामयाबी of उसके डेब्यू , the latter तभी selling 100,000 नक़ल , despite the कामयाबी of अनेक singles आरपार दोनो एल्बम , ऐसे as `` चुंबन  Me Thru the Phone `` and `` Turn My Swag On `` ( iSouljaBoyTellem ) and `` Pretty Boy Swag `` ( The DeAndre Way ) .
This was mainly due to negotiation  समस्याएं साथ interscope रिकॉर्ड जिससे meant a सीमित राशि  of records were made available to the public .
As of 2011 , Way has confirmed he is working on his  चौथी स्टुडियो एल्बम , हकदार यूएसए ड्रे , जिससे होगा be released  in 2013 .
The electron transport chain in  the सूत्रकणिका is the साईट of oxidative phosphorylation  in eukaryotes .
The NADH  और succinate उत्पन्न in the साइट्रिक एसिड साईकिल हैं oxidized , providing  energy to power ATP synthase .
photosynthetic इलेक्ट्रॉन हस्तांतरण  chain of the thylakoid membrane .
An electron transport chain ( ETC ) couples electron transfer between an  इलेक्ट्रॉन दाता ( ऐसे as nadh ) और an इलेक्ट्रॉन acceptor ( ऐसे as o2 ) साथ the ट्रांसफ़र of H+ ions ( protons  ) across a membrane .
The resulting electrochemical  प्रोटॉन अनुपात is प्रयुक्त to generate रासायनिक उर्जा in the रूप  of adenosine triphosphate ( ATP ) .
Electron transport chains are the cellular mechanisms used for extracting energy from sunlight in  photosynthesis और भी इससे रेडॉक्स प्रतिक्रियाएँ , ऐसे as the ऑक्सीकरण of sugars ( श्वसन  ) .
In chloroplasts , light drives the  परिवर्तन of जल to ऑक्सीजन और nadP+ to nadph साथ ट्रांसफ़र  of H+ ions across chloroplast membranes .
In mitochondria , it is the conversion of oxygen to water , NADH to NAD+ and  succinate to fumarate कि हैं जरूरी to generate the प्रोटॉन अनुपात .
Electron  हस्तांतरण जंजीरों हैं प्रमुख साइट of असामयिक इलेक्ट्रॉन  leakage to oxygen , generating superoxide and potentially resulting in increased oxidative stress .
Tramadol hydrochloride ( trademarked as Conzip ,  ryzolt , ultracet , ultram in the यूएसए , ralivia , zytram xl durella { cr-100/200 mg } in कनाडा or adolonta in स्पेन ) is a centrally एक्टिंग सिंथेटिक  analgesic used to treat moderate to moderately severe pain .
The drug has a  चौड़ी दायरा of अनुप्रयोग , सहित उपचार of आमवातीय गठिया , बेचैन  legs syndrome , motor neurone disease and fibromyalgia .
It was launched and marketed as Tramal by the German  फार्मास्युटिकल कम्पनी grünenthal gmbh  in 1977 .
Tramadol is a  कमजोर μ-opioid receptor agonist कि भी induces  serotonin release and inhibits the reuptake of norepinephrine .
tramadol is metabolized to o-desmethyltramadol  , a significantly more potent μ-opioid agonist .
Tramadol and its major metabolite ( s ) are distinguished from  अन्य अधिक potent opioid agonists by सापेक्ष selectivity लिये  μ-opioid receptors .
Bernard Lawrence `` Bernie '' Madoff ( ; born  अप्रैल 29 , 1938 ) is an अमरीकी पूर्व stockbroker , निवेश  advisor , financier , and white collar criminal .
He  is the पूर्व non-executive अध्यक्ष of the नैस्डैक भण्डार मार्केट , और the admitted ऑपरेटर  of a Ponzi scheme that is considered to be the largest financial fraud in U.S. history .
Madoff founded the Wall Street firm Bernard L. Madoff  निवेश प्रतिभूति llc in 1960 , और थी इसके अध्यक्ष  until his arrest on December 11 , 2008 .
The firm was one of the top market maker businesses on Wall Street , which  bypassed `` विशेषज्ञ '' firms by सीधे निष्पादित आदेश over the काउंटर इससे  retail brokers .
He employed at the firm his brother Peter as Senior Managing Director and Chief Compliance Officer ; Peter has since  महरूम sentenced to 10 सालो in थाना  .
Peter 's daughter Shana Madoff as the firm  's नियम और अनुपालन अधिकारी और attorney , और उसके बेटे एंड्रयू  and Mark ( Mark committed suicide by hanging exactly two years after his father 's arrest ) .
On December 10 , 2008 ,  madoff 's बेटे बताई अधिकारियों कि उनके पिता था confessed to उन्हें कि the एसेट प्रबन्धन ईकाई of उसके  firm was a massive Ponzi scheme , and quoted him as describing it as `` one big lie . ''
The  following दिन , एफबीआई एजेंटों गिरफ्तार madoff  and charged him with one count of securities fraud .
The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) had previously conducted investigations  into madoff 's कारोबार practices , लकिन किया नहीं ख़ोज the विशाल धोखाधड़ी  .
In March 2009 , Madoff pleaded guilty to 11 federal felonies and admitted to turning his wealth  प्रबन्धन कारोबार into a विशाल पेन्शन योजना कि झांसे हज़ारों of निवेशकों of अरबों of डॉलर  .
Madoff said  he began the पेन्शन योजना in the  early 1990s .
However ,  संघीय जांचकर्ताओं मानना the धोखाधड़ी began as जल्दी as the 1970s , और those चार्ज साथ recovering  the missing money believe the investment operation may never have been legitimate .
The amount missing from client accounts , including  fabricated gains , थी लगभग $ 65 अरब  .
The court-appointed trustee estimated  वास्तविक नुकसान to निवेशकों of $ 18 अरब .
On June 29  , 2009 , he थी sentenced to 150 सालो in थाना  , the maximum allowed .
Administrative Professionals Day ( also known as Secretaries Day or Admin Day ) is an unofficial secular holiday observed in several countries to  recognize the कार्य of secretaries , प्रशासनिक assistants , receptionists , और अन्य प्रशासनिक  support professionals .
In North America , it is celebrated on the Wednesday of the last full  सप्ताह of अप्रैल ( अप्रैल 24 in 2013  ) .
In France it is celebrated on the  तीसरा गुरुवार in अप्रैल ( अप्रैल 18 in 2013 )  .
In Australia it is  मनाये on the पहला शुक्रवार  in May
A quasi-judicial  देह is an एंटिटी ऐसे as an arbitrator or ट्रिब्यूनल फलक , generally of a पब्लिक प्रशासनिक एजेंसी , जिससे रै  powers and procedures resembling those of a court of law or judge , and which is obligated to objectively determine facts and draw conclusions from them so as to provide the basis of an official action .
Such actions are able to remedy a  हालात or थोपने विधिक दंड , और may affect  the legal rights , duties or privileges of specific parties .
Monument of Tycho Brahe and  योहानेस कॅप्लर in  Prague
Tycho Brahe ( 14 December 154624 October 1601 ) , born Tyge Ottesen Brahe ,  थी a डैनिश nobleman  known for his accurate and comprehensive astronomical and planetary observations .
He  थी born in स्कैनिया , तब भाग of डेनमार्क  , now part of modern-day Sweden .
Tycho was well known in his  आजीवन as an astronomer और  alchemist .
In his De nova stella ( On the  नई स्टार ) of 1573 , he refuted the aristotelian  belief in an unchanging celestial realm .
His precise measurements indicated that `` new stars , '' (  stellae novae , अभी ज्ञात as supernovae ) in particular कि of 1572 , lacked the लंबन अपेक्षित in sub-lunar phenomena  , and were therefore not `` atmospheric '' tailless comets as previously believed , but were above the atmosphere and moon .
Using similar measurements he showed that comets were also not atmospheric phenomena , as previously  विचार , और जरूर pass through the माना `` अपरिवर्तनीय  '' celestial spheres .
As an astronomer , Tycho worked to combine what he saw as the geometrical benefits of the  copernican प्रणाली साथ the philosophical लाभ of the ptolemaic प्रणाली into उसके अपना  model of the universe , the Tychonic system .
Furthermore , he was the  पिछला of the प्रमुख नग्न नजर खगोलशास्त्रियों , working  without telescopes for his observations .
Tycho Brahe was granted an estate on the island of  hven और the funding to निर्माण the uraniborg , an जल्दी शोध संस्थान , जहाँ he निर्मित विशाल खगोलीय यंत्र और took अनेक careful माप  , and later Stjerneborg , underground , when he discovered that his instruments in the former were not sufficiently steady .
On the island (  on जिससे he demonstrated निरंकुश अक्षर और बर्ताव toward the निवासियों ) he संस्थापित manufactories  such as paper-making to provide material for printing his results .
After disagreements with the new Danish king Christian IV in 1597  , he थी आमंत्रित by the bohemian किंग और पावन रोमन सम्राट rudolph ii to प्राग , जहाँ he became  the official imperial astronomer .
he निर्मित the नई वेधशाला  at Benátky nad Jizerou .
Here , from 1600 until his death in 1601 , he was assisted by Johannes  कॅप्लर जो बाद प्रयुक्त tycho 's खगोलीय आंकड़ा to develop कॅप्लर 's  laws of planetary motion .
Guro District ( Guro-gu ) is a district of Seoul  , दक्षिण कोरियाई , जिससे थी अलग इससे yeongdeungpo ज़िला  on April 1 , 1980 .
Located in the  southwestern भाग of the नगर , जहाँ besides yangcheon ज़िला और geumcheon ज़िला guro ज़िला रै an महत्वपूर्ण स्थिति  as a transport link which contains railroads , land routes from the rest of Seoul to the south of the country .
The  gyeongbu और gyeongin  railway lines connect Seoul to Busan and Incheon .
in जोड , सियोल महानगर सबवे लाइनों 1 ,  2 , and 7 , and major highways intersect in Guro District .
The name Guro originates from the legend that nine ( )  बूढ़ा मेन ( कोरियाई : ro ) enjoyed आयु  in the district .
A digital  औद्योगिक जटिल is स्तिथ  in Guro District .
the guro डिजिटल औद्योगिक जटिल , जिससे निभाई a अग्रणी औद्योगिक भूमिका मुख्यतः साथ वस्त्र निर्माण , dressmaking  and other labour-intensive industries in 1967 , has been rapidly changed into an IT industrial complex .
This complex played a pivotal role in the economic growth  of the दक्षिण कोरियाई 's विकास era , referred to as the `` चमत्कार on the हान नदी `` , और भी contributed 10 प्रतिशत  of national export in the 1970s .
Twenty-one percent of the total area of Guro District is a restricted zone to  be प्रयुक्त as a greenbelt साथ the तभी arboretum  in Seoul .
The zone is  बदलना into a जीवंत ज़िला as विशाल labour-intensive कारखानों  are moving from the area and the council is developing what it terms its four zones .
An `` e-government `` system based on this hosted the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय e-participation फ़ोरम on फ़रवरी 7–9 , 2007 , साथ the भागीदारी  of more than thirty-seven countries .
the फ़ोरम थी शुभारम्भ साथ the थीम `` promoting लोकतंत्र और क्षेत्रीय विकास '' और twenty-five mayors सहित आंद्रे santini ( issy-les-moulineaux ,  France ) , Kevin Foy ( Chapel Hill , US ) , Apirak Kosayothin ( Bangkok , Thailand ) , Uvais Mohamed Emthiyas ( Colombo , Sri Lanka ) , and world experts such as Dr William H. Dutton ( Director of Oxford Internet Institute at the University of Oxford , UK ) and Dr Ari-Veiko Anttiroiko ( professor at the University of Tampere , Finland ) participated in the forum .
The Guro  घोषणा , अपनाया दौरान the फ़ोरम , aims to नियत up a पोर्टल साईट लिये e-government विकास और to  establish a concrete project in order to bridge the digital divide among the world 's cities .
This practice has been recognised for  providing a नई महत्वपूर्ण कदम in the विकास  of e-democracy .
The  e-participation फ़ोरम थी a कुंजी फ़ैक्टर लिये guro to खेल the अग्रणी भूमिका in bridging the डिजिटल divide among शहरों , to provide i.t . उद्यमों  located in Guro Digital Industrial Complex the opportunity to launch into the international market , to improve its image and become a global leader to concrete e-democracy .
The international  e-participation फ़ोरम on फ़रवरी 7–9 , 2007
A wonton ( also spelled  wantan , wanton , or wuntun in ट्रांसक्रिप्शन इससे cantonese ; मंदारिन :  húndùn ) is a type of dumpling commonly found in a number of Chinese cuisines .
Many people were  शामिल in the आविष्कार of रेडियो as we अभी जान it .
Several possible  विधि of बेतार संचार यहूद माना , सहित आगमनात्मक और capacitive प्रेरण  and transmission through the ground , however the method used for radio today exclusively involves the transmission and reception of electromagnetic waves .
After early speculation on the subject , experimental work on the connection between electricity and magnetism began around 1820 with the work of Hans Christian Ørsted and  जारी साथ the कार्य of andré-marie एम्पीयर , जोसेफ हेनरी , और माइकल फैराडे .
These investigations culminated in the complete theory of  विद्युत्चुम्बकत्व विकसित by जेम्स क्लर्क मैक्सवेल  .
इस सिद्धान्त वर्णित the सैद्धांतिक आधार of  the propagation of electromagnetic waves .
After Maxwell 's theory was published many  लोगों experimented साथ बेतार संचार , कुछ intentionally  using Maxwell 's theory some not .
It is considered likely that the first intentional  हस्तांतरण of a सिग्नल by अर्थात् of इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक लहरें थी performed by दाउद  Edward Hughes around 1880 , although this was considered to be induction at the time .
The  पहला व्यवस्थित और unequivocal हस्तांतरण of em लहरें थी performed by heinrich रुडॉल्फ  Hertz and described in papers published in 1887 and 1890 .
हर्ट्ज़ famously माना ये परिणाम as होने  of little practical value .
After Hertz 's  कार्य अनेक लोगों यहूद शामिल in the विकास of components और सिद्धान्त  involved with the transmission and reception of electromagnetic waves .
Others , notably Guglielmo  मार्कोनी , यहूद चिंतित साथ व्यावहारिक सुधार और the वाणिज्यिक अनुप्रयोग  of radio to wireless telegraphy .
Later on Reginald A.  fessenden became the पहला to भेजें an ऑडियो सिग्नल by अर्थात्  of electromagnetic waves .
Scurvy is a  बीमारी resulting इससे a कमियां of विटामिन c , जिससे  is required for the synthesis of collagen in humans .
the रासायनिक नाम लिये विटामिन c , एस्कॉर्बिक एसिड , is निकला  from the Latin name of scurvy , scorbutus , which also provides the adjective scorbutic ( `` of , characterized by or having to do with scurvy '' ) .
Scurvy often  presents itself initially as लक्षण of malaise और lethargy , followed by गठन of धब्बे on the स्किन ,  spongy gums , and bleeding from the mucous membranes .
Spots are most abundant  on the जांघों और टाँगे , और a व्यक्ति साथ the ailment looks पाले  , feels depressed , and is partially immobilized .
As scurvy advances , there can be  खोलें , suppurating wounds , घाटा of दांत , पीलिया  , fever , neuropathy and death .
Scurvy was at one time common among sailors , pirates and others aboard ships at sea longer than perishable fruits and  सब्जियां could be भंडारित ( subsisting बजाय तभी on cured और salted meats और सूखी दाने ) और by सैनिको similarly वंचित  of these foods for extended periods .
It was described by Hippocrates ( c. 460 BC–c . 380 BC ) , and herbal  cures लिये स्कर्वी have महरूम ज्ञात in अनेक देशी संस्कृतियों  since prehistory .
Scurvy  थी एक of the limiting कारकों of समुद्री सफर  , often killing large numbers of the passengers and crew on long-distance voyages .
This became a significant issue in Europe from the beginning of  the आधुनिक era in the आयु of डिस्कवरी in the 15th सदी , continuing to खेल a significant भूमिका through  World War I in the 20th century .
While today scurvy is known to be caused by a nutritional deficiency , until the isolation of vitamin C and  सीधा प्रमाण of इसके कड़ी to स्कर्वी in 1932 , numerous theories और उपचार  were proposed , often on little or no experimental data .
This inconsistency is attributed to the lack of vitamin C as a distinct concept , an inability to reliably link different foods  ( notably उपस्थित in भैस citrus , watercress  , and organ meat ) to scurvy .
An  अतिरिक्त अवधारणा जरूरी to  understand scurvy was the degradation of vitamin C by exposure to air and copper and other transition metal salts such as those of iron , thus changing the links of foods to scurvy over time .
Treatment by fresh food ,  विशेषकर citrus फल , थी periodically implemented  , as it had been since antiquity .
However until the 1930s , treatment was  असंगत , साथ अनेक अप्रभावी उपचार  used into the 20th century .
It was a Scottish surgeon in the Royal Navy , James Lind who first  proved it could be treated साथ citrus फल in प्रयोग he वर्णित in उसके 1753 किताब , a treatise of the स्कर्वी , हालांकि उसके  advice was not implemented by the Royal Navy for several decades .
In  infants , स्कर्वी is sometimes referred to as barlow 's बीमारी , नामित  after Sir Thomas Barlow , a British physician who described it .
However , Barlow  's बीमारी may भी refer to mitral  valve prolapse .
Other  eponyms लिये स्कर्वी शामिल moeller  's disease and Cheadle 's disease .
Scurvy does  नहीं occur in सबसे पशु क्युकी वे can  synthesize their own vitamin C .
However , humans and other higher primates (  the simians - बंदरों और apes - और tarsiers ) , गिनी सूअर , सबसे or सब bats  , and some species of birds and fish lack an enzyme ( L-gulonolactone oxidase ) necessary for such synthesis and must obtain vitamin C through their diet .
Vitamin C is widespread in plant tissues , with particularly high concentrations occurring in citrus fruits ( oranges  , नींबू , limes , grapefruits ) , टमाटर , आलू , पत्तागोभी , और ग्रीन  peppers .
Iron is a chemical element with  the प्रतीक fe ( इससे ) और परमाणु क्रमांक  26 .
It is a metal in the  पहला परिवर्तन श्रेणी .
It is the most common element ( by mass ) forming the planet  धरती as a पूरे , forming much of धरती  's outer and inner core .
It is the  चौथी सबसे आम तत्व in the धरती  's crust .
Iron 's very common presence in rocky planets like Earth is due to its abundant production as a result of fusion in high-mass stars ,  जहाँ the उत्पादन of nickel-56 ( जिससे decays to the सबसे आम समस्थानिक of आयरन ) is the पिछला नाभिकीय संलयन प्रतिक्रिया  that is exothermic .
This causes radioactive nickel to become the last element to be produced before collapse of a supernova leads  to the विस्फोटक कार्यक्रम कि scatter इस precursor radionuclide of आयरन  abundantly into space .
Like other group 8 elements , iron exists  in a चौड़ी दायरा of ऑक्सीकरण राज्य , −2  to +6 , although +2 and +3 are the most common .
Elemental  आयरन occurs in meteoroids और अन्य कम  oxygen environments , but is reactive to oxygen and water .
Fresh iron surfaces  appear lustrous silvery-gray , लकिन oxidize in सामान्य एयर to दे  hydrated iron oxides , commonly known as rust .
Unlike many other metals which form passivating oxide layers , iron oxides occupy more volume  than आयरन मेटल , और यूँ आयरन आक्साइड फ्लेक बंद और expose भैस सतहों लिये संक्षारण .
Iron  मेटल रै महरूम प्रयुक्त चूंकि प्राचीन टाइम्स , हालांकि तांबे alloys , जिससे have  lower melting temperatures , were used first in history .
Pure iron is soft (  softer than एल्युमिनियम ) , लकिन  is unobtainable by smelting .
The material is significantly hardened  और strengthened by impurities इससे the smelting प्रक्रम ,  such as carbon .
A certain  proportion of कार्बन ( between 0.002 % और 2.1 % ) produces स्टील  , which may be up to 1000 times harder than pure iron .
Crude iron metal is produced in blast furnaces ,  जहाँ अयस्क is घटाया by कोक to सुअर आयरन , जिससे रै a ऊँची कार्बन  content .
Further refinement with oxygen reduces the carbon  सामग्री to the सही proportion to  make steel .
Steels and low carbon iron alloys with  अन्य धातुओं ( मिश्रधातु steels ) हैं by दूर the सबसे आम धातुओं in औद्योगिक उपयोग ,  due to their great range of desirable properties and the abundance of iron .
Iron chemical compounds , which include ferrous and ferric  यौगिकों , have अनेक  uses .
Iron  ऑक्साइड मिश्रित साथ एल्युमिनियम चूर्ण can be ignited to बनाएँ a थर्माइट प्रतिक्रिया  , used in welding and purifying ores .
It forms  शब्दकोष यौगिकों साथ the हैलोजन्स  and the chalcogens .
Among its organometallic compounds is ferrocene , the first  सैंडविच यौगिक खोजा  .
Iron plays an  महत्वपूर्ण भूमिका in जीवविज्ञान , forming देवालय साथ आणविक ऑक्सीजन in हीमोग्लोबिन  and myoglobin ; these two compounds are common oxygen transport proteins in vertebrates .
Iron is also the metal used at the active site of many important  रेडॉक्स एंजाइमों dealing साथ सेल्यूलर श्वसन और ऑक्सीकरण और कटौती in  plants and animals .
The Blue Cross Blue Shield Association ( BCBSA ) is a federation  of 38 पृथक स्वास्थ्य बीमे संगठन और कंपनियाँ in  the United States .
Combined , they  सीधे or indirectly provide स्वास्थ्य बीमे to over 99  million Americans .
The history of  ब्लू क्रॉस तिथियाँ वापस to 1929 , जबकि the  history of Blue Shield dates to 1939 .
the ब्लू क्रॉस संघ तिथियाँ वापस to 1960 , जबकि इसके  Blue Shield counterpart was created in 1948 .
The two  संगठन मिलाया in 1982 , forming  the current association .
A potato chip ( known as a chip in American ,  ऑस्ट्रेलियाई , नई जीलैंड , कनाडाई , singaporean , हांग काँग , दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी और jamaican अंग्रेज़ी ; as a कुरकुरे in अंग्रेजों अंग्रेज़ी  and Hiberno-English , and as either a chip or wafer in Indian English ) is a thin slice of potato that is deep fried or baked until crunchy .
Potato chips are commonly  परोसा as an क्षुधावर्धक , पक्ष डिश  , or snack .
The basic chips are cooked and salted ; additional varieties are manufactured using various  flavorings और संघटक सहित seasonings , herbs , मसाले , cheeses , और कृत्रिम  additives .
`` Crisps '' , however , may also refer to many different types of  savory स्नैक उत्पाद बेची in the संयुक्त किंगडम और आयरलैंड , कुछ बना इससे आलू , लकिन may भी  be made from maize , tapioca or other cereals .
An example of these kinds of savory  स्नैक्स is दानव  Munch .
Potato chips are a predominant part of the snack  खाना मार्केट in english-speaking देशों और numerous अन्य  Western nations .
The global potato  चिप मार्केट उत्पन्न कुल revenues of us  $ 16.4 billion in 2005 .
This accounted for 35.5  % of the कुल savory स्नैक्स मार्केट  in that year ( US $ 46.1 billion ) .
Henry Clay , Sr. ( April 12 , 1777 – June 29 , 1852 ) was a lawyer ,  राजनेता और skilled orator जो represented केंटकी in दोनो the सीनेट और in the हाउस of प्रतिनिधि  .
He served three different  शर्तें as स्पीकर of the संयुक्त राज्य हाउस of प्रतिनिधि और थी भी सचिव  of State from 1825 to 1829 .
He  खोया उसके अभियान लिये  president in 1824 , 1832 and 1844 .
Clay was a dominant  फिगर in दोनो the पहला और दूसरी  Party systems .
As a leading war hawk in 1812 , he favored war with Britain and  निभाई a significant भूमिका in अग्रणी the  nation to war in the War of 1812 .
In 1824 he ran for  अध्यक्ष और खोया , लकिन फेंका उसके चुनावी मत to जॉन  Quincy Adams , who made him secretary of state as the Jacksonians denounced what they considered a `` corrupt bargain . ''
He ran and lost again in  1832 और 1844 as the प्रत्याशी of the whig पार्टी , जिससे he संस्थापित  and usually dominated .
Clay was the foremost  proponent of the अमरीकी प्रणाली , लड़ लिये an बढ़ाएँ in tariffs to फोस्टर उद्योग in the  United States , the use of federal funding to build and maintain infrastructure , and a strong national bank .
He opposed the  annexation of टेक्सास , fearing it  would inject the slavery issue into politics .
Clay also opposed the Mexican-American War and the `` Manifest Destiny `` policy of  डेमोक्रेट , जिससे लागत उसे मत in the बंद 1844 चुनाव  .
Dubbed the `` Great Pacificator , '' Clay  brokered महत्वपूर्ण compromises  during the Nullification Crisis and on the slavery issue .
As part of the `` Great Triumvirate `` or `` Immortal Trio , '' along with his colleagues Daniel  वेबस्टर और जॉन C. calhoun , he थी इंस्ट्रूमेंटल in formulating the मिसौरी सुलह of 1820 और the सुलह of 1850  .
He was viewed as the primary  प्रतिनिधि of पश्चिमी रूचि in इस समूह , और थी दिए the names ``  Henry of the West '' and `` The Western Star . ''
A plantation owner ,  मिट्टी आयोजित स्लेव दौरान उसके आजीवन लकिन  freed them in his Will .
Abraham Lincoln , the Whig leader in  इलिनोइस , थी a ग्रेट admirer of मिट्टी , saying he थी  `` my ideal of a great man . ''
Lincoln wholeheartedly  समर्थित मिट्टी 's आर्थिक  programs .
In 1957  , a सीनेट कमेटी चयनित मिट्टी as एक of the पाँच महानतम u.s . सीनेटरों  , along with Daniel Webster , John C. Calhoun , Robert La Follette , and Robert Taft .
BJ 's Wholesale Club , Inc. ,  commonly referred to बस as bj 's , is a membership-only गोदाम क्लबों कड़ी ऑपरेटिंग on the संयुक्त  States East Coast , as well as in the state of Ohio .
The company is ranked # 232 on  सौभाग्य पत्रिका 's 2010 लिस्टिंग of अमेरिका  's 500 largest public corporations .
The  जादूगर of oz , ज्ञात दौरान उसके शासनकाल as the ग्रेट और शक्तिशाली oz , is the epithet of ऑस्कर zoroaster  Phadrig Isaac Norman Henkel Emmannuel Ambroise Diggs , a fictional character in the Land of Oz , created by American author L. Frank Baum .
The character was further  popularized by the क्लासिक 1939 फिल्म , wherein  his full name is not mentioned .
Kristinia Jamie  debarge ( ; born कूच 8 , 1990 ) is an अमरीकी सिंगर  , songwriter , dancer and actress .
वो पहला appeared on नेशनल टेलीविज़न in  2003 as a contestant on the American Idol spin-off , American Juniors .
In 2009 , DeBarge signed a contract with the Island Records  विभाग sodapop , releasing उसके डेब्यू एल्बम उजागर  in July of the same year .
The  पहला सिंगल , `` अलविदा `` , पहुँचे  the top 20 in the US and Canada .
The lead  सिंगल ( `` क्राई भेड़िया '' ) इससे उसके बेनाम sophomore एल्बम थी released  on September 27 , 2012 .
The Hawaii Warriors football team represents the  विश्वविद्यालयों of hawaiʻi at mānoa in ncaa प्रभाग i fbs कॉलेज  football .
The  टोली is coached by  Norm Chow .
It was part of the Western  एथलेटिक सम्मेलन जबतक जुलाई 2012 , जब the टोली joined the  Mountain West Conference .
The Hawaii Warriors were the third non-AQ team to play in a BCS bowl game ;  खोने to जॉर्जिया 41–10 in the शुगर कटोरी on जनवरी 1 , 2008 in नई ऑरलियन्स  , Louisiana .
Marvin  gaye ( अप्रैल 2 , 1939april 1 , 1984 )  , born Marvin Pentz Gay , Jr. , was an American singer-songwriter and musician .
Gaye helped to shape the sound of Motown Records in the 1960s with a string of hits including `` How Sweet It Is ( To Be Loved By You ) `` and `` I Heard It  through the grapevine `` और duet रिकार्डिंग साथ मरियम कुएं और tammi terrell , बाद कमाई the शीर्षक `` प्रिंस  of Motown '' and `` Prince of Soul '' .
During the 1970s , Gaye recorded the concept albums What 's Going  on और let 's मिलेंगी it on और became among the पहला कलाकारों in motown to ब्रेक दूर इससे the  reins of its production company .
Gaye 's later recordings  बहकावे अनेक r & b subgenres  such as quiet storm and neo-soul .
Following a period in Europe under a tax exile in the early 1980s , Gaye  released the 1982 ग्रैमी award-winning hit `` यौन healing `` और the मध्यरात्रि प्रेम एल्बम  .
Since his death in 1984 , Gaye has been  मरणोपरांत सम्मानित by अनेक संस्थानों , सहित the ग्रैमी आजीवन  Achievement Award and the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame .
Location of  chernobyl नाभिकीय शक्ति  plant
The abandoned city of  pripyat साथ chernobyl संयंत्र in the  distance
Abandoned  आवास ब्लॉक in pripyat
The Chernobyl disaster ( , Chornobylska  katastrofa – chornobyl प्रलय ) थी a अनर्थकारी नाभिकीय दुर्घटना कि occurred on 26 अप्रैल 1986 at the chernobyl नाभिकीय शक्ति संयंत्र in युक्त ( तब officially the यूक्रेनी  SSR ) , which was under the direct jurisdiction of the central authorities of the Soviet Union .
An  विस्फोट और आग released विशाल quantities of रेडियोसक्रिय अणु into the माहौल  , which spread over much of the western USSR and Europe .
The Chernobyl disaster is widely considered to have been the worst nuclear power plant accident in history , and is one of  तभी दो वर्गीकृत as a स्तर 7 इवेंट on the अंतरराष्ट्रीय नाभिकीय इवेंट स्केल ( the अन्य होने the फुकुशिमा daiichi नाभिकीय विपत्ति  in 2011 ) .
The battle to contain the  संदूषण और avert a वृहद प्रलय ultimately शामिल over 500,000  workers and cost an estimated 18 billion rubles .
The official Soviet casualty count of 31 deaths  रै महरूम विवादित , और long-term प्रभाव ऐसे as cancers और deformities हैं स्टिल  being accounted for .
Mrs.  क्लॉस says अलविदा to उसके husband as  he sets off on his journey in this 1919 postcard
Mrs. Claus is  the बीवी of सांता क्लॉस , the क्रिसमस gift-bringer  in North American and European Christmas tradition .
She is known for making cookies with the elves and  तैयारी खिलौने साथ उसके husband सांता  Claus .
Her first name  is a रहस्य , हालांकि वो रै महरूम referred to as मरियम , जेसिका , layla  , Annette , Heidi , or Martha .
HijackThis ( also HiJackThis or HJT ) is an open source enumerating tool  लिये microsoft खिड़कियाँ originally निर्मित  by Merijn Bellekom , and later sold to Trend Micro .
The program is notable for  लक्ष्यीकरण browser-hijacking विधि ,  rather than relying on a database of known spyware .
It scans a  उपयोक्ता 's कंप्यूटर जल्दी , और प्रदर्शक ब्राउजर  hijacking locations , showing what entries are there .
HijackThis is  प्रयुक्त primarily लिये निदान of ब्राउजर hijacking , as uninformed उपयोग  of its removal facilities can cause significant software damage to a computer .
HijackThis does not remove or  detect स्पाइवेयर ; it सूचियाँ सबसे आम स्थितियाँ  where browser hijacking activity can occur .
ब्राउजर hijacking can कारण  malware to be installed on a computer .
On February  16 , 2012 , ट्रेंड सूक्ष्म released the  HijackThis source code as open source and it is now available on the SourceForge site .
Saddle Creek Records is an American record label based in  ओमाहा , नेब्रास्का  .
प्रारंभ as a कॉलेज क्लास प्रोजेक्ट on उद्यमिता  , the label was founded by Mike Mogis and Justin Oberst in 1993 ( as Lumberjack Records ) .
Mogis soon turned over his role in  the कम्पनी to robb nansel  .
The label is named after Saddle Creek Road , a street that cuts through the east side of midtown Omaha , and the beginnings of a scene whose members included Conor  oberst ( तब a सोलो कलाकार , फिलहाल of उज्जवल आँखें , conor oberst और the रहस्यवादी घाटी बैंड , desaparecidos और राक्षस of लोक )  , Tim Kasher ( then of Slowdown Virginia , currently of Cursive and The Good Life ) , and others .
Collectively , they were  ज्ञात unofficially as the ``  Creekers '' .
Saddle Creek first appeared in print on a show  flyer , offering to `` खर्च an संध्या साथ काठी क्रीक '' (  later to be the title of the label 's DVD . )
Saddle Creek  became an incorporated एंटिटी as a परिणाम of a क्लास प्रोजेक्ट on  entrepreneurship .
Distribution is  संभाला by the वैकल्पिक वितरण गठबंधन , जिससे  is under the Warner Music Group umbrella .
Saddle Creek Records continues to be the flagship  लेबल of a स्टाइल of म्यूज़िक पुकारा `` the ओमाहा  Sound `` , characterized by a slight country twang .
इस is increasingly inaccurate , हालांकि , साथ  the rise of more electronic sounds such as those favored by The Faint and Broken Spindles .
The eclectic sounds of Saddle Creek 's disparate member  bands is somewhat समझाया by उनके इतिहास ; a क्रमांक of the असली सदस्यों of the लेबल attended  grade school together .
A  `` सिस्टर लेबल '' , of sorts , to काठी क्रीक  is Team Love , started by Conor Oberst in 2004 .
The label opened arms to their first bands  नहीं आधारित in ओमाहा in 2001 साथ रिलीज by अभी it 's ओवरहेड और sorry  About Dresden .
Other non-Nebraskan artists followed , including Los Angeles 's Rilo  kiley , eric bachmann ( formerly नेता of archers of loaf और कुटिल उंगलियाँ इससे उत्तर कैरोलिना ) , georgie जेम्स ( वॉशिंगटन d.C. ) , दो gallants ( सैन  Francisco ) , and most recently Tokyo Police Club ( Toronto ) .
In 2005 , Spend an Evening with Saddle Creek , a  वृत्तचित्र detailing the पहला टेन सालो of the रिकार्ड लेबल 's इतिहास  , was released .
The DVD features extensive  साक्षात्कार साथ the काठी क्रीक  bands , archival footage , and rare live performances .
On  जून 8 , 2007 , the लेबल खोली उनके अपना म्यूज़िक स्थान नामित slowdown ( बाद the  group Slowdown Virginia ) , located in downtown Omaha , Nebraska .
the following is a सूची of एपीसोड  for the television show Full House .
In total , there were 192 episodes filmed for the show over the course of  इसके आठ सीज़न , इससे 1987 to  1995 .
Full House is a situation comedy which  क्रॉनिकल्स a विधवा पिता 's struggles of उठाने उसके तीन यंग बेटियां और the जीवनदान  that they have touched .
The patriarch of the family , Danny ( Bob  saget ) , आमंत्रण उसके brother-in-law जेसी ( जॉन stamos ) और उसके बेहतरीन dost जॉय ( डेव coulier ) , to सहायता उठाएँ उसके children ( candace cameron , jodie sweetin , और मरियम kate/ashley  Olsen ) , after his wife was killed during an automobile accident involving a drunk driver .
After episodes 88 and 89 , Jesse marries  बेकी ( लोरी loughlin ) , और वे मूव into the अटारी  .
Then , after episodes 104 and 105 , Becky  और जेसी have जुड़वा लड़कों नामित nicky और एलेक्स ( डेनियल और केविन renteria/blake और डिलन tuomy-wilhoit  ) .
The series ends with  एपीसोड 192 , `` मिशेल यात्राएँ again भाग 2 '' , जब मिशेल loses उसके मेमोरी और  the family tries to restore it .
Notice of Stamp  अधिनियम of 1765 in समाचारपत्र
American newspapers reacted to the Stamp Act with anger  और पूर्वानुमान of the निधन of पत्रकारिता  .
The Stamp Act 1765 ( short title  कर्तव्य in अमरीकी colonies अधिनियम 1765 ; 5 जार्ज iii , c. 12 ) imposed a सीधा कर by the अंग्रेजों पार्लियामेंट specifically  on the colonies of British America , and it required that many printed materials in the colonies be produced on stamped paper produced in London , carrying an embossed revenue stamp .
These printed materials were  विधिक दस्तावेज़ , मैगज़ीन , अखबारों और अनेक अन्य प्रकार of पेपर प्रयुक्त  throughout the colonies .
Like  पिछला कर , the स्टैम्प कर था to be  paid in valid British currency , not in colonial paper money .
The purpose of the tax  थी to सहायता अदा लिये सैनिकों stationed in उत्तर  America after the British victory in the Seven Years ' War .
The British government felt that the colonies were the primary beneficiaries of this  सैन्य उपस्थिति , और चाहिए अदा at तनिक a portion of the व्यय  .
The  स्टैम्प अधिनियम मिले ग्रेट प्रतिरोध  in the colonies .
The colonies sent no representatives to Parliament , and  इसलिए था no influence over कया कर यहूद उठाया , कैसा वे यहूद levied  , or how they would be spent .
Many colonists considered it a violation of their rights as Englishmen to be taxed without their consent  —consent कि तभी the औपनिवेशिक विधानमंडलों could ग्रान्ट .
Colonial assemblies sent  याचिकाएं और विरोध  .
The Stamp Act Congress held in New York City , reflecting the  पहला significant संयुक्त औपनिवेशिक जवाब to कोई अंग्रेजों  measure , also petitioned Parliament and the King .
Local protest groups , led by colonial merchants and landowners , established connections  through पत्राचार कि निर्मित a ढीला गठबन्धन कि  extended from New England to Georgia .
Protests and demonstrations  initiated by the बेटे of स्वतंत्रता प्रायः turned हिंसक और destructive as  the masses became involved .
Very  जल्द सब स्टैम्प कर वितरकों यहूद सहमे into resigning  their commissions , and the tax was never effectively collected .
विपक्ष to the  Stamp Act was not limited to the colonies .
British merchants and manufacturers  , जिनकी निर्यात to the colonies यहूद threatened by औपनिवेशिक आर्थिक  problems exacerbated by the tax , also pressured Parliament .
The Act was repealed on March 18 ,  1766 as a पदार्थ of expedience , लकिन पार्लियामेंट  affirmed its power to legislate for the colonies “in all cases whatsoever” by also passing the Declaratory Act .
There followed a series of new  कर और regulations , likewise opposed by the colonists  .
The episode played a major role in defining the  grievances और enabling the व्यवस्थित औपनिवेशिक प्रतिरोध  that led to the American Revolution in 1775 .
pt-105 underway  .
PT boats were a variety of torpedo-armed fast  आक्रमण शिल्प प्रयुक्त by the संयुक्त राज्य नेवी in  World War II to attack larger surface ships .
`` PT '' is the US hull classification  प्रतीक लिये `` पैट्रोल torpedo '' .
The PT boat  squadrons यहूद nicknamed `` the  mosquito fleet '' .
the जापानी पुकारा  them `` Devil Boats '' .
The  असली pre– संसार युद्ध i torpedo नौकाएँ यहूद  designed with `` displacement '' hulls .
They  विस्थापित up to 300  tons and the top speed was .
The PT boats used in World  युद्ध ii यहूद निर्मित using the planing -type हल  form developed for racing boats .
They were much  छोटी ( 30–75 टन ) और  faster ( 35–40 knots ) .
Both types were designed to strike at larger warships  साथ torpedoes , using अपेक्षाकृत ऊँची गति to मिलेंगी बंद , और छोटी  size to avoid being spotted and hit by gunfire .
They were much  कम महंगी than विशाल  warships .
PT boats were much  तेज़ , छोटी , और सस्ता than conventional  ( displacement hull ) vessels .
During World War II , American PT boats engaged enemy destroyers and  numerous अन्य सतह शिल्प , ranging  from small boats to large supply ships .
PT boats also operated as gunboats against enemy small  शिल्प , ऐसे as कराया barges प्रयुक्त by the जापानी शक्तियां लिये inter-island  transport .
Good Friday is a religious holiday  observed primarily by ईसाइयों commemorating the crucifixion of यीशु मसीह  and his death at Calvary .
The holiday is observed during Holy Week as part of the Paschal Triduum on the Friday preceding  ईस्टर संडे , और may coincide साथ the यहूदी observance of passover  .
It is also known as Holy Friday , Great  शुक्रवार , ब्लैक शुक्रवार , or ईस्टर शुक्रवार , हालांकि the latter properly refers  to the Friday in Easter week .
Based on  the विवरण of the canonical gospels , the crucifixion of यीशु  was most likely to have been on a Friday ( the day before the Sabbath ) ( ) .
The estimated year of the Crucifixion is AD 33 , by two different groups , and originally as AD 34 by Isaac Newton via the differences between the  biblical और जूलियन पंचांग और the crescent of the चंद्रमा  .
A third method , using a completely different astronomical approach based on a  चंद्र crucifixion अंधेरा और ग्रहण मॉडल ( सतत साथ apostle पीटर  's reference to a `` moon of blood '' in Acts 2:20 ) , points to Friday , 3 April AD 33 .
The  ग्रेट जलाशय is the largest क्षेत्रफल of endorheic  watersheds in North America .
It is noted for both its arid conditions and its Basin and range topography that  varies इससे the उत्तर अमरीकी कम पाइंट at badwater जलाशय to the उच्चतम पाइंट of the संलग्न संयुक्त  States , less than away at the summit of Mount Whitney .
The region spans  अनेक physiographic विभाजन , biomes / ecoregions  , and deserts .
Raster  may refer to:
रास्टर ग्राफिक्स , आलेखीय  techniques using arrays of pixel values
Raster  ग्राफिक्स एडिटर , a कंप्यूटर  program
Raster scan , the pattern of image readout , transmission ,  भंडार , और पुनर्निर्माण in टेलीविज़न और कंप्यूटर  images
Rasterisation , or  rasterization , परिवर्तन of a  vector image to a raster image
Raster image  प्रोसेसर , or rip , a घटक of a मुद्रण  system that performs rasterisation
Raster interrupt , a  कंप्यूटर इन्टरनेट सिग्नल
Raster to  वेक्टर , an चित्र परिवर्तन  process
Raster bar , an effect  प्रयुक्त in कंप्यूटर demos
raster-noton , a  record label
Rastrum , a device  प्रयुक्त in मध्यकालीन म्यूज़िक पांडुलिपियों  to draw staff lines
Raster Document  ऑब्जेक्ट , a संचिका स्वरूप
Beowulf ( ;  बूढ़ा अंग्रेज़ी : ) is a legendary geatish नायिका और बाद turned किंग in the एपिक कविता नामित बाद  him , one of the oldest surviving pieces of literature in the English language .
The attack on Pearl Harbor ( called Hawaii Operation or Operation AI by  the जापानी इम्पीरियल सामान्य मुख्यालय ( आपरेशन z in नियोजन ) और the बैटल of पर्ल हार्बर ) थी a आश्चर्य सैन्य स्ट्राइक conducted by the इम्पीरियल जापानी नेवी  against the United States naval base at Pearl Harbor , Hawaii , on the morning of December 7 , 1941 ( December 8 in Japan ) .
From the standpoint of the  defenders , the आक्रमण commenced at 7:48  a.m. Hawaiian Time .
The attack was intended as a preventive  कार्रवाई in अनुक्रम to रखना the u.S. प्रशांत बेड़े इससे दखल साथ सैन्य क्रियाएँ the साम्राज्य of जापानी थी नियोजन  in Southeast Asia against overseas territories of the United Kingdom , the Netherlands , and the United States .
The base was attacked by  353 जापानी सेनानी , बमवर्षक और torpedo planes  in two waves , launched from six aircraft carriers .
All eight U.S. Navy  battleships यहूद क्षतिग्रस्त , साथ चार होने  sunk .
Two of these were later raised  , और साथ the बाकी चार repaired , छह battleships  returned to service later in the war .
The Japanese also sank  or क्षतिग्रस्त तीन cruisers , तीन destroyers , an anti-aircraft  training ship , and one minelayer .
188 U.S. aircraft  यहूद नष्ट ; 2,402 अमेरिकी यहूद मारे  and 1,282 wounded .
Important base installations such as the power station , shipyard , maintenance , and fuel and torpedo storage facilities , as well  as the पनडुब्बी पियर और मुख्यालय भवन ( भी घर of the प्रज्ञा  section ) were not attacked .
Japanese losses were light : 29 aircraft and five  midget submarines खोया , और  65 servicemen killed or wounded .
One  जापानी नाविक थी captured  .
The attack  आए as a profound शॉक to the अमरीकी लोगों और led सीधे  to the American entry into World War II in both the Pacific and European theaters .
The  following दिन ( दिसम्बर 8 ) ,  the United States declared war on Japan .
Domestic support for  non-interventionism , जिससे था महरूम दमदार , disappeared  .
Clandestine support of Britain ( for example the Neutrality  पैट्रोल ) थी replaced by क्रियाशील  alliance .
Subsequent operations by the U.S. prompted  जर्मनी और इटली to घोषित युद्ध on the u.S. on दिसम्बर 11 , जिससे थी  reciprocated by the U.S. the same day .
There were numerous  ऐतिहासिक precedents लिये unannounced सैन्य  action by Japan .
However , the lack of any formal warning , particularly while  negotiations यहूद स्टिल जाहिर जारी , led अध्यक्ष फ्रैंकलिन D. रूज़वेल्ट to proclaim  December 7 , 1941 , `` a date which will live in infamy `` .
U.S. Route 85 ( US  85 ) is a north–south संयुक्त राज्य राजमार्ग कि रनों लिये in the पहाड़  - Northern Plains states of the United States .
The southern  टर्मिनस of the रूट is at the संयुक्त states-mexico  border in El Paso , Texas , connecting with Mexican Federal Highway 45 .
The northern terminus is at the  संयुक्त states-canada किनारा in fortuna , उत्तर डकोटा , जहाँ the रूट  continues north as Saskatchewan Highway 35 .
In  दोनो the संयुक्त राज्य और saskatchewan ,  Canada the route is known as the CanAm Highway .
भाग of us 85 हैं माना भाग of  the Theodore Roosevelt Expressway .
The United States presidential election of 1968 was the  46th quadrennial अध्यक्षीय चुनाव , आयोजित on मंगलवार , नवम्बर  5 , 1968 .
The Republican nominee , former Vice-President Richard Nixon , won the  चुनाव over the लोकतांत्रिक nominee , लाज़िम  Vice-President Hubert Humphrey .
Nixon ran on a  अभियान कि promised to restore विधि और अनुक्रम to the स्वदेश 's शहरों  , torn by riots and crime .
Analysts have argued the election of 1968 is a realigning  चुनाव as it permanently disrupted the नई सौदे गठबन्धन कि  had dominated presidential politics for 36 years .
Coming  चार सालो बाद डेमोक्रेट lyndon B. जॉनसन जीती in a ऐतिहासिक  landslide , the election saw the incumbent president forced out of the race and a Republican elected for the first time in twelve years .
It was a wrenching national experience , conducted during a year of violence that included the assassination of civil rights leader Martin Luther King , Jr. , and subsequent race riots across the nation , the assasination of  लोकतांत्रिक अध्यक्षीय प्रत्याशी रॉबर्ट F. कैनेडी , फैली विपक्ष to the वियतनाम युद्ध आरपार विश्वविद्यालयों campuses , और हिंसक confrontations between पुलिस और  anti-war protesters at the 1968 Democratic National Convention as the Democratic party split again and again .
the चुनाव प्रदर्शित the strongest तीसरा पार्टी  effort since 1912 by former Alabama Governor George Wallace , a Democrat .
Because Wallace 's campaign opposed federal intervention in the South to end school  पृथक्करण , he carried the गहन दक्षिण और भागा खूब in जातीय औद्योगिक जिले in the  North .
This was the last election in  जिससे नई यॉर्क था the सबसे मत in the चुनावी  college ( 43 votes ) .
बाद the 1970 जनसांख्यिकी , कैलिफ़ोर्निया gained the सबसे चुनावी  votes and has remained the most populous state since then .
This is the latest election  जहाँ a अध्यक्षीय टिकट जीती बगैर carrying the वाइस अध्यक्षीय  candidate 's home state .
Windows Task Manager is a task manager or System monitor application included with the Microsoft Windows NT family of operating systems that provides limited information about computer performance and running applications , processes and CPU usage , commit charge and memory information , network activity  और आंकडे , logged-in उपयोक्ता , और प्रणाली सेवाएं ( और as प्रायः is the मामला साथ तन्त्र टूल्स provided by microsoft लिये खिड़कियाँ , 3rd पार्टी तन्त्र is उपलब्धियाँ जिससे भरता the आवश्यकताएँ अधिक thoroughly , e.g , `` प्रक्रम एक्सप्लोरर  '' , `` Extended Task Manager '' , `` Anvir Task Manager '' , `` Process Hacker '' , and `` System Explorer '' ) .
The Task  मैनेजर can भी be प्रयुक्त to नियत प्रक्रम प्राथमिकताएं , प्रोसेसर अपनापन , forcibly terminate  processes , and shut down , restart , hibernate or log off from Windows .
Windows Task  मैनेजर थी introduced साथ खिड़कियाँ  NT 4.0 .
Previous  संस्करण of खिड़कियाँ nt शामिल the कार्य सूची अनुप्रयोग  , which had far fewer features .
The task list was capable of listing currently  कार्यशील प्रक्रियाओं और हत्या उन्हें  , or creating a new process .
In Windows XP only , a Shutdown menu is also  उपस्थित कि allows अभिगम to standby , hibernate , फेरे बंद , restart , log बंद और  Switch User .
Earlier versions of Microsoft Windows (  microsoft खिड़कियाँ 3.x , खिड़कियाँ 95 , खिड़कियाँ 98 ) था a कार्यक्रम ज्ञात as कार्य  to display the programs currently running .
This file was  चलाया by कार्यशील the taskman.exe संचिका  from the C : \Windows directory .
Kanji ( ; ) are the adopted logographic Chinese characters ( hanzi ) that are used in the  आधुनिक जापानी लिखने प्रणाली साथ साथ hiragana ( ひらがな , ) , katakana ( カタカナ , ) , hindu-arabic numerals , और the occasional  use of the Latin alphabet .
The Japanese term kanji ( ) for the Chinese characters literally means `` Han characters ''  और is लिखा using the वही वर्ण as the चाइनीज  hanzi ( ) .
John R Williams ( May 4 , 1782 – October 20 , 1854 ) was an American  सिपाही , व्यापारी , और राजनेता जो is  most well known for serving as the first mayor of Detroit , Michigan .
In total , he served as  डेट्रॉयट 's महापौर लिये पाँच  other terms .
He also was a brigadier general in the  संयुक्त राज्य फौज दौरान the  Black Hawk War .
A simple  शुष्क चुम्बकीय पोर्टेबल  compass .
A smartphone that can  be प्रयुक्त as a कम्पास क्युकी of the magnetometer  inside .
An iPhone that can be  प्रयुक्त as a geological कम्पास क्युकी of the 3-axis teslameter  and 3-axis accelerometer inside it
A military compass  कि थी प्रयुक्त दौरान संसार युद्ध i  .
A compass is a  navigational यंत्र कि shows दिशानिर्देश in a फ़्रेम of  reference that is stationary relative to the surface of the earth .
The frame of reference defines  the चार कार्डिनल दिशानिर्देश ( or अंक ) – उत्तर , दक्षिण , ईस्ट  , and west .
Intermediate  दिशानिर्देश हैं  also defined .
Usually , a diagram called a compass rose , which shows the  दिशानिर्देश ( साथ उनके names प्रायः abbreviated to आद्याक्षर ) , is चिह्नित  on the compass .
When the compass is in use , the rose is aligned with  the रियल दिशानिर्देश in the फ़्रेम of सन्दर्भ , so , लिये उदाहरण , the `` n ''  mark on the rose really points to the north .
Frequently , in addition to the rose or  sometimes बजाय of it , कोण markings in डिग्री हैं दिखाया on the  compass .
North corresponds to zero  डिग्री , और the कोण बढ़ाएँ clockwise , so ईस्ट is  90 degrees , south is 180 , and west is 270 .
These numbers allow  the कम्पास to दिखाएँ azimuths or बियरिंग , जिससे  are commonly stated in this notation .
The magnetic compass was first invented as a device for divination as  जल्दी as the चाइनीज हान राजवंश ( चूंकि परिचय  206 BC ) .
The compass was used in Song  राजवंश चीन by the सैन्य लिये navigational orienteering by 1040-1044 ,  and was used for maritime navigation by 1111 to 1117 .
The use of  a कम्पास is अंकित in पश्चिमी यूरोपीय  between 1187 and 1202 , and in Persia in 1232 .
The dry compass  थी invented in यूरोपीय around 1300  .
This was  supplanted in the जल्दी 20th सदी by the liquid-filled  magnetic compass .
The Inca Empire or Inka Empire (  quechua : tawantinsuyu ) थी the largest साम्राज्य  in pre-Columbian America .
The administrative , political and  सैन्य बीच of the साम्राज्य थी स्तिथ  in Cusco in modern-day Peru .
The Inca civilization  arose इससे the हाइलैंड्स of पेरू sometime  in the early 13th century .
From 1438 to 1533 , the Incas used a variety of methods , from conquest to peaceful assimilation , to incorporate a  विशाल portion of पश्चिमी दक्षिण अमेरिका , केन्द्रित on the andean पहाड़ सीमाएँ , सहित , besides पेरू , विशाल भाग of आधुनिक इक्वाडोर , पश्चिमी और दक्षिण सेंट्रल बोलीविया , उत्तरपश्चिम अर्जेंटीना , उत्तर और  central Chile , and southern Colombia into a state comparable to the historical empires of Eurasia .
The  आधिकारिक भाषा of the साम्राज्य थी  Quechua , although hundreds of local languages and dialects of Quechua were spoken .
The Inca referred  to उनके साम्राज्य as tawantinsuyu जिससे can be अनूदित as the चार regions  or The Four United Provinces .
There were many local forms of worship ,  सबसे of उन्हें concerning लोकल पवित्र `` huacas `` , लकिन the इन्का नेतृत्व प्रोत्साहित the इबादत of inti —the  sun god—and imposed its sovereignty above other cults such as that of Pachamama .
The Incas considered  उनके किंग , the sapa इन्का  , to be the `` child of the sun . ''
The kidneys  हैं अंगों कि serve अनेक अनिवार्य नियामक भूमिकाएँ in  most animals , including vertebrates and some invertebrates .
They are  अनिवार्य in the urinary प्रणाली और भी serve homeostatic कृत्यों ऐसे as the विनियमन of इलेक्ट्रोलाइट्स , मेंटेनेंस  of acid–base balance , and regulation of blood pressure ( via maintaining salt and water balance ) .
They serve the  देह as a प्राकृतिक फिल्टर of the रक्त , और हटाएँ wastes जिससे हैं  diverted to the urinary bladder .
In producing urine , the kidneys excrete wastes such as urea and  अमोनियम , और वे हैं भी जिम्मेदार लिये the reabsorption of जल , ग्लूकोज  , and amino acids .
The kidneys also produce hormones including calcitriol ,  erythropoietin , और the एंजाइम renin  .
Located at the rear of the abdominal  गुहा in the retroperitoneum , the गुर्दे प्राप्त रक्त इससे the  paired renal arteries , and drain into the paired renal veins .
Each kidney excretes urine into a ureter , itself a  युग्म ढांचा कि empties into the urinary ब्लैडर .
Renal physiology is  the पढ़ाई of गुर्दा फलन , जबकि nephrology is the चिकित्सा  specialty concerned with kidney diseases .
Diseases of the kidney are diverse , but individuals  साथ गुर्दा बीमारी अक्सर प्रदर्शक characteristic  clinical features .
Common clinical conditions involving the kidney include the  nephritic और nephrotic syndromes , renal cysts , अधि गुर्दा चोट , दीर्घकालिक गुर्दा बीमारी , urinary ट्रैक्ट संक्रमण , nephrolithiasis  , and urinary tract obstruction .
Various  cancers of the गुर्दा मौजूद ; the सबसे आम वयस्क  renal cancer is renal cell carcinoma .
Cancers , cysts , and some other renal conditions can be  प्रबंधित साथ हटाना of the गुर्दा , or nephrectomy  .
When renal function , measured by glomerular filtration rate , is persistently poor ,  डायलिसिस और गुर्दा प्रत्यारोपण may be उपचार विकल्प  .
Although they are not severely harmful ,  गुर्दा पत्थरों can be दुखद और a nuisance  .
The removal of kidney stones involves ultrasound treatment  to ब्रेक up the पत्थरों into छोटी टुकड़े , जिससे  are then passed through the urinary tract .
One common symptom of kidney stones is a sharp pain  in the medial/lateral खण्ड of  the lower back .
Lockton Companies Inc. is the  संसार 's largest privately आयोजित बीमे brokerage कड़ , providing बीमे  , risk management and employee benefits solutions .
In addition to  इसके कान्सास नगर , मिसौरी मुख्यालय  , Lockton operates 60 locations in 17 countries .
lockton is फिलहाल घर to अधिक  than 4,450 Associates worldwide .
The company was founded by Jack  lockton in 1966 और रै चूंकि become the world’s 9th largest बीमे  brokerage firm .
Lockton serves a wide array of industries with  सेवाएं कि शामिल रिस्क प्रबन्धन , casualty , surety , पेशेवर indemnity  and more .
For 46 years , Lockton posted  असाधारण सशुल्क विकास , साथ वैश्विक revenues reaching $  915 million in fiscal 2012 .
Lockton Benefits Group : Lockton’s Employee Benefit’s team works closely with insurance carriers  और प्रशासकों to बनाएँ व्यापक और एकीकृत लाभ रणनीति लिये  clients .
The Lockton  लाभ समूह provides सेवाएं सहित अनुपालन , कार्यपालिका लाभ , स्वास्थ्य  and welfare , health risk solutions , retirement and more .
Lockton Affinity : Lockton Affinity , an affiliate of Lockton Companies ,  meets the बीमे needs of अपनापन समूह , franchises , पेशेवर संगठन , और एसोसिएशन  of all sizes .
Lockton Affinity offers  a किस्में of बीमे उत्पाद  options and programs .
Products include : General Liability ,  पेशेवर देयता , प्रॉपर्टी , मजदूर मुआवजे , निर्देशकों & अधिकारियों देयता  , Commercial Auto , Specialty Coverage , Excess , Health Plans and more .
Lockton International : Lockton  अंतरराष्ट्रीय operates कार्यालयों in the uk और आयरलैंड , as खूब as  offices throughout Asia and Latin America .
In Europe ,  lockton अंतरराष्ट्रीय is a संगी in eos risq , europe’s अग्रणी  insurance broking and risk management consultancy .
EOS RISQ is an equity-based European partnership of  प्रमुख स्वतंत्र बीमे brokers साथ over 3,500 कर्मचारी आधारित  in more than 30 countries in Europe .
Lockton International provides specialized solutions for personal lines , SME’s and  प्रमुख multi-national क्लाइंट  .
White  चॉकलेट is a चॉकलेट  derivative .
It commonly consists of cocoa butter , sugar , milk solids  और नमक , और is characterized by a पाले पीला  or ivory appearance .
The  melting पाइंट of cocoa मक्खन , इसके प्राथमिक cocoa सेम घटक  , is high enough to keep white chocolate solid at room temperature .
Donald Leon `` Don '' Blankenship ( born March 14 , 1950 )  थी अध्यक्ष और सीईओ of massey उर्जा co. , the छठे largest कोयले  company ( by 2008 production ) in the United States .
He served in  those भूमिकाएँ इससे नवम्बर 30 , 2000 , जबतक  December 31 , 2010 .
Blankenship is an active  वित्तीय backer of the रिपब्लिकन पार्टी और भागीदार in लोकल और राज्य राजनीती , विशेषकर  in his home state of West Virginia .
He has frequently spoken out  सरेआम परिचय राजनीती , the पर्यावरण , संघ , और कोयले  production .
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission filings show  blankenship थी सशुल्क $ 17.8 लाख in 2009 , the उच्चतम  in the coal industry .
His 2009 pay  represents a $ 6.8 लाख उठाएँ over 2008 और लगभग  double his compensation package in 2007 .
blankenship भी प्राप्त a deferred  compensation package valued at $ 27.2 million in 2009 .
On December 3 , 2010 , Blankenship announced that he  थी retiring as सीईओ at the समाप्त of the साल , और होता be  succeeded by Massey President Baxter F. Phillips Jr .
Bow Wow is one of the transcriptions used  in अंग्रेज़ी to describe a श्वान 's छाल  .
धनुष wow may भी refer  to:
धनुष wow ( बैंड ) , a जापानी मुश्किल  rock/heavy metal band
धनुष wow ( rapper ) , an अमरीकी  rapper and actor
धनुष wow सॉस , a सॉस विकसित in  the Cotswolds region of England
Bow Wow Wow , a  uk नई वेव बैंड
`` Bow  wow '' , a सोंग by the fiery  Furnaces from their 2003 album Gallowsbird 's Bark
`` Bow Wow Blues ( My  मामा दावत me जैसे a श्वान ) '' , a  song composed in the 1920s by Cliff Friend & Nat Osborne
Negligence ( Lat . negligentia , from neglegere , to neglect , literally `` not to pick up  कुछ '' ) is a विफलता to कसरत the परवाह कि a reasonably  prudent person would exercise in like circumstances .
The area of tort law known as  लापरवाही involves नुक़सान caused by carelessness , नहीं जानबूझकर  harm .
According  to jay M. feinman of the rutgers विश्वविद्यालयों  School of Law ;
`` The core idea of negligence is that people should exercise reasonable care  जब वे अधिनियम by लेने खाता of the संभावित नुक़सान कि वे might foreseeably  cause harm to other people . ''
`` those who  go personally or लाओ प्रॉपर्टी जहाँ वे जान कि वे or it may आइये into टक्कर साथ the व्यक्तियों or प्रॉपर्टी of  others have by law a duty cast upon them to use reasonable care and skill to avoid such a collision . ''
Fletcher v Rylands (  [ 1866 ] lr 1 ex 265  )
Through civil litigation  , if an घायल व्यक्ति proves कि another व्यक्ति acted negligently to कारण उनके चोट  , they can recover damages to compensate for their harm .
Proving a case for negligence can potentially entitle the injured plaintiff to compensation  लिये नुक़सान to उनके देह , प्रॉपर्टी , दिमागी well-being , वित्तीय औकात , or अंतरंग संबंध  .
However , because negligence cases are  बहुत fact-specific , इस सामान्य परिभाषा करता नहीं fully बताइये the अवधारणा of जब the विधि होगा आवश्यकता एक व्यक्ति to compensate  another for losses caused by accidental injury .
further , the विधि of लापरवाही at आम विधि is  only one aspect of the law of liability .
Although resulting  क्षतिपूर्ति जरूर be सिद्ध in अनुक्रम to रिकवर मुआवजे in a लापरवाही कार्रवाई , the प्रकृति और  extent of those damages are not the primary focus of negligence cases .
A melanocytic nevus ( also known as `` Nevocytic nevus '' ) is a type  of lesion कि contains nevus कोशिकाएं (  a type of melanocyte ) .
Some sources equate the term mole  साथ `` melanocytic nevus  '' .
Other sources reserve the term  `` mole '' लिये अन्य  purposes .
The majority of  औज़ार appear दौरान the पहला दो दशकों of  a person’s life , while about one in every 100 babies is born with moles .
Acquired moles are a form of benign neoplasm , while  जन्मजात औज़ार , or जन्मजात nevi , हैं  considered a minor malformation or hamartoma and may be at a higher risk for melanoma .
A mole can be either subdermal ( under the skin ) or a  pigmented विकास on the स्किन , formed ज़्यादातर of a प्रकार of कोशिका  known as a melanocyte .
The high concentration of the  body’s pigmenting एजेंट , मेलेनिन , is जिम्मेदार  for their dark color .
Moles are a  सदस्य of the परिवार of स्किन  lesions known as nevi .
The  व्यापक metabolic फलक , or रासायनिक स्क्रीन , ( cmp ; cpt  code 80053 ) is a panel of 14 blood tests which serves as an initial broad medical screening tool .
The CMP provides a  अशिष्ट जाँच of गुर्दा फलन , जिगर फलन , और electrolyte और द्रव  balance , but it is far from perfect .
Abnormal values from a CBC may be a result of false positives and thus the CBC  may need to be दोहराया लिये a रोगी ( or replaced  with a more specific test ) .
The CMP is an  विस्तारित संस्करण of the मौलिक metabolic  panel ( BMP ) , which does not include liver tests .
A CMP ( or BMP ) can be ordered as part of a routine  शारीरिक परिक्षा , or may be प्रयुक्त to मॉनिटर a रोगी साथ a दीर्घकालिक बीमारी , ऐसे  as diabetes mellitus or hypertension .
Previous names for  the फलक of परीक्षण have महरूम chem  12 , Chemistry panel , Chemistry screen , SMA 12 , SMA 20 and SMAC ( Sequential Multiple Analysis - Computer ) .
The tests  हैं performed on मशीने आधारित  on the AutoAnalyzer invented in 1957 .
प्राकृतिक गैस निष्कर्षण by देशों  in cubic meters per year .
Natural gas is a naturally occurring hydrocarbon gas mixture consisting primarily of  मिथेन , लकिन commonly सहित varying amounts of अन्य hydrocarbons , कार्बन डाइऑक्साइड , नाइट्रोजन , और हाइड्रोजन sulfide  .
Natural  गैस is an उर्जा सोर्स प्रायः प्रयुक्त  for heating , cooking , and electricity generation .
It is also used as fuel for vehicles and as a chemical  फर्टिलाइजर in the manufacture of प्लास्टिक और अन्य commercially  important organic chemicals .
Natural gas is found in deep underground natural rock formations or associated  साथ अन्य हाइड्रोकार्बन टंकी in कोयले beds और as मिथेन clathrates  .
Petroleum is also another resource found in  निकटता to और साथ प्राकृतिक  gas .
Most natural gas was created  over समय by दो mechanisms : biogenic  and thermogenic .
biogenic गैस is निर्मित by methanogenic जीवों in marshes  , bogs , landfills , and shallow sediments .
Deeper in the earth , at greater temperature and pressure ,  thermogenic गैस is निर्मित इससे दफ्न सशुल्क सामग्री  .
Before natural gas can be used  as a ईंधन , it जरूर undergo प्रसंस्करण to हटाएँ impurities ,  including water , to meet the specifications of marketable natural gas .
The  by-products of प्रसंस्करण शामिल इथेन , प्रोपेन , butanes , pentanes , और उच्चतर आणविक वज़न  hydrocarbons , hydrogen sulfide ( which may be converted into pure sulfur ) , carbon dioxide , water vapor , and sometimes helium and nitrogen .
प्राकृतिक गैस is प्रायः informally referred to बस  as gas , especially when compared to other energy sources such as oil or coal .
This page is about  the कल्पना  Movers band .
For information about the TV show  अभिनीत the बैंड , देखिए कल्पना मूवर्स (  TV series ) .
कल्पना मूवर्स  is a band formed in New Orleans , Louisiana , in 2003 .
The lineup includes Rich Collins , Scott  durbin , डेव poche , और स्कॉट `` smitty  '' Smith .
Members  of the समूह यहूद longtime  friends and neighbors .
The group started as a television/music  अवधारणा जिससे थी pitched to लोकल pbs  affiliates in New Orleans .
WLAE-TV was the first to take an interest in the group and later  introduced उन्हें to बेथ कोर्टनी , the अध्यक्ष & मुख्य कार्यपालिका अधिकारी  at Louisiana Public Broadcasting .
Soon  बाद , lpb began airing one-minute  videos produced by the Imagination Movers themselves .
The Movers built a sizable regional  following by सेटिंग शैक्षणिक गीतों लिये  kids to melodies and rhythms that adults appreciate as well .
They  बेची अधिक than 100,000 नक़ल  of their self-produced CDs and DVDs .
Their three indie CDs : `` Good Ideas , '' `` Calling All Movers , '' and `` Eight  फीट '' साथ साथ उनके ग्रास जड़ें dvd `` हलचल it up '' have , संयुक्त , जीती चौदह नेशनल पुरस्कार , इससे ऐसे समूह as the नेशनल संघ of  Parenting Publications ( NAPPA ) and Parents ' Choice .
In early 2005 , Disney took  सूचना , और initiated negotiations  to add the Movers to the company 's roster .
These  यहूद बाधित in अगस्त जब the बाढ़ सुरक्षा designed  and built by the Army Corps of Engineers to protect New Orleans failed .
The resulting floodwater claimed the  बैंड 's दफ्तर , as खूब as the घरों of कॉलिन्स , durbin और poche  – but the deal was signed in the spring of 2006 .
In 2008 ,  वॉल्ट डिज़्नी रिकॉर्ड introduced the कल्पना मूवर्स ' म्यूज़िक to the स्वदेश साथ the रिलीज of the मूवर्स ' पहला  nationally-released CD , `` Juice Box Heroes . ''
In September 2008 , a 30-minute show featuring  the समूह began airing on the डिज़्नी चैनल 's प्रीस्कूल प्रोग्रामिंग ब्लाक ज्ञात as playhouse डिज़्नी ,  and currently airs on Playhouse Disney 's replacement , Disney Junior .
The Movers write and  perform सब the गीतों on उनके दिखाएँ  .
Moreover , the Imagination Movers have received critical  kudos लिये उनके सजीव कॉन्सर्ट प्रदर्शन  .
In October 2009 , the Imagination Movers started the `` Live from  the विचार गोदाम कॉन्सर्ट दौरे  2009 '' .
Traveling from  mid-october to mid-december 2009 उनके सजीव प्रदर्शन शामिल लोट of उनके  favorite songs and dancing , as well as video appearances of Warehouse Mouse .
Beginning in early-February 2011  और wrapping up in लेट may 2011 , the कल्पना मूवर्स प्रस्तुत उनके `` in a बिग गोदाम कॉन्सर्ट दौरे , '' playing अधिक than  100 shows in 50+ cities across North America .
From March  to अक्तूबर 2012 , the कल्पना मूवर्स  toured North America on their post-Disney `` Rock-O-Matic '' tour .
The show maintained several elements of the original TV concept , such as an on-stage `` idea emergency '' and several sets from their older catalogue ;  however , साथ the प्रस्थान of वेन्डी calio वापस to उसके देशी हवाई , the अक्षर `` नीना '' , साथ साथ उसके musical संख्याएँ , is नहीं  present .
The tour promotes the Imagination Movers ' new album/DVD  रिलीज , `` rock-o-matic '' , जिससे सुविधाएँ  all new music from the band .
The  एल्बम itself is उत्पादित independently of डिज़्नी और रै a notably अधिक वयस्क  , contemporary rock-and-roll sound , though still very appropriate for children .
Several performance dates were moved to later in 2012 to benefit from  the increased एक्सपोज़र of the कल्पना मूवर्स tv दिखाएँ अभी playing रोज़ on  Disney Junior .
The platypus (  ornithorhynchus anatinus ) is a semiaquatic स्तनधारी endemic to पूर्वी  Australia , including Tasmania .
Together with the four species of echidna , it is one of the five extant  प्रजाति of monotremes , the तभी स्तनधारियों कि lay अंडे बजाय of giving  birth .
It is the sole living representative of its family ( Ornithorhynchidae )  और genus ( ornithorhynchus ) , हालांकि a  number of related species have been found in the fossil record .
The unusual appearance of this egg-laying , duck -billed , beaver -tailed ,  otter -footed स्तनधारी मनोरथ यूरोपीय naturalists जब वे पहला encountered it , साथ कुछ considering  it an elaborate fraud .
It  is एक of the few विषैला स्तनधारियों , the पुरूष platypus having  a spur on the hind foot that delivers a venom capable of causing severe pain to humans .
The unique features of the  platypus मेक it an महत्वपूर्ण विषय in the पढ़ाई of विकासवादी जीवविज्ञान और a recognisable  and iconic symbol of Australia ; it has appeared as a mascot at national events and is featured on the reverse of its 20-cent coin .
The platypus is the animal  emblem of the राज्य of नई दक्षिण वेल्स  .
Until the early 20th century , it was hunted  लिये इसके फर , लकिन it is अभी सुरक्षित throughout इसके दायरा  .
Although captive breeding programmes have had only  सीमित कामयाबी और the platypus is vulnerable to the प्रभाव of प्रदूषण , it is नहीं  under any immediate threat .
the chupacabra or chupacabras  ( , from chupar `` to suck '' and cabra `` goat '' , literally `` goat sucker '' ) is a legendary cryptid rumored to inhabit parts of the Americas .
It is associated more recently with sightings of an allegedly unknown animal in Puerto  रीको ( जहाँ ये sightings यहूद पहला reported ) , मैक्सिको , और the संयुक्त राज्य , विशेषकर in the  latter 's Latin American communities .
The name comes from the animal 's reported habit of attacking  और पीने the रक्त of पशुधन , विशेषकर बकरियों  .
शारीरिक descriptions  of the creature vary .
Eyewitness sightings have been claimed as early as 1995 in Puerto Rico , and  have चूंकि महरूम reported as दूर उत्तर as maine , और as दूर दक्षिण as चिली , और भी  being spotted outside the Americas in countries like Russia and The Philippines .
It is supposedly a heavy  प्राणी , the आकार of a छोटी भालू , साथ a पंक्ति of  spines reaching from the neck to the base of the tail .
Sighting reports of  the chupacabra have महरूम disregarded as uncorroborated or lacking प्रमाण , जबकि सबसे रिपोर्ट्स in उत्तरी मैक्सिको और the दक्षिणी  United States have been verified as canids afflicted by mange .
Biologists and wildlife management  officials दृश्य the chupacabra  as a contemporary legend .
The North American Free Trade  अनुबंध ( nafta ) is an अनुबंध हस्ताक्षरित by कनाडा , मैक्सिको  , and the United States , creating a trilateral trade bloc in North America .
The  अनुबंध आए into फ़ोर्स on  January 1 , 1994 .
It superseded the  canada–united राज्य फ़्री व्यापार अनुबंध between  the U.S. , Canada , and Mexico
NAFTA has two  पूरक : the उत्तर अमरीकी अनुबंध on पर्यावरणीय सहयोग ( naaec ) और  the North American Agreement on Labor Cooperation ( NAALC ) .
Thermal comfort is the condition of mind that expresses satisfaction  साथ the थर्मल पर्यावरण और is assessed by subjective मूल्यांकन ( ansi / ashrae मानक  55 ) .
Maintaining this standard of thermal comfort for occupants of buildings or other enclosures is one of the important goals of  hvac ( हीटिंग , वेंटिलेशन , और एयर कंडीशनिंग ) डिज़ाइन इंजीनियर्स  .
the पूर्वानुमानित औसत vote ( pmv ) मॉडल स्टैंड  among the most recognized thermal comfort models .
It was developed using principles of heat balance  और प्रायोगिक आंकड़ा एकत्रित in a नियंत्रित जलवायु कक्ष अंतर्गत  steady state conditions .
Because the PMV model was derived from data  एकत्रित in a नियंत्रित जलवायु , it is नहीं उपयुक्त लिये अनुप्रयोग in  naturally ventilated spaces which often have high levels of air movement .
This shortcoming motivated the development of a  परिवार of अनुभवजन्य सांख्यिकीय मॉडल of थर्मल सुकून in naturally  ventilated spaces known as adaptive models .
Adaptive models of thermal comfort consider occupants as dynamically interacting with their  पर्यावरण , और controlling उनके थर्मल सुकून  by means of clothing or window-opening and closing .
This  is in कंट्रास्ट to थर्मल सुकून in sealed इमारतें  , in which occupants experience the environment passively .
Thermal comfort is  प्रभावित by ऊष्मा conduction , संवहन , विकिरण  , and evaporative heat loss .
Thermal  सुकून is कायम जब the ऊष्मा उत्पन्न by इंसान चयापचय is  allowed to dissipate , thus maintaining thermal equilibrium with the surroundings .
It has been long recognized that the  सनसनी of अहसास hot or ठंडा is नहीं बस निर्भर on एयर तापमान अलोन  .
Thermal comfort  calculations according to ansi/ashrae मानक  55 can be freely performed with the CBE Thermal Comfort Tool for ASHRAE-55 .
Durante degli Alighieri , simply  referred to as दांते ( , ; ; c. 1265–1321 ) , थी  a major Italian poet of the Middle Ages .
His Divine Comedy , originally called '  और बाद पुकारा ' by boccaccio , is widely माना the महानतम साहित्यिक कार्य रचित in the इतालवी भाषा  and a masterpiece of world literature .
In Italy he is  ज्ञात as ' ( `` the परम् कवि ''  ) or just ' .
He , Petrarch and  boccaccio हैं भी ज्ञात as `` the तीन  fountains '' or `` the three crowns '' .
दांते is भी पुकारा the `` पिता  of the Italian language '' .
मुख्यालय ( कोबे  , Japan )
( ) is a tire and  रबर कम्पनी आधारित in जापानी  .
It is  भाग of the sumitomo  Group .
The company traces its origins to 1909 , when the  sumitomo समूह बना an निवेश in dunlop जापानी , the newly formed  Japanese subsidiary of the British company Dunlop Rubber .
Over the  सालो sumitomo और dunlop विकसित a बंद कारोबार संबंध  , and in 1963 the Sumitomo Group acquired control of Dunlop Japan and renamed it Sumitomo Rubber Industries Ltd .
In 1985 , when  dunlop रबर थी लिया over by btr पीएलसी , the कम्पनी acquired the ऑटोमोबाइल टायर  assets of Dunlop , including the right to use the Dunlop brand on automobile tires .
The  अधिग्रहण किया नहीं शामिल the us और ऑस्ट्रेलियाई व्यवसायों , जिससे  were separately owned , but in 1986 Sumitomo also acquired the Dunlop Tire Corporation of the US from its management .
In 1997 , Sumitomo formed a joint venture with Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company , by which Goodyear and  sumitomo सहमत to manufacture टायर लिये प्रत्येक अन्य 's बाज़ार , सहित dunlop  branded tires .
As part of the agreement , Goodyear acquired 75 % interests in  dunlop टायर , the uk कम्पनी जिससे sumitomo था formed , और in  Dunlop Tire Corporation .
Goodyear and  sumitomo भी बना निवेश  in each other .
Today , the company  makes a चौड़ी दायरा of रबर आधारित  products , including automobile tires , golf balls and tennis balls .
Microsoft Visual Studio Express is a set of freeware  एकीकृत विकास environments ( आईडीई ) विकसित by microsoft कि हैं lightweight संस्करण of the microsoft  Visual Studio product line .
Express Editions  यहूद conceived शुरूआत  with Visual Studio 2005 .
The idea of Express editions is to provide streamlined , easy-to-use and  easy-to-learn ides लिये उपयोक्ता अन्य than पेशेवर तन्त्र डेवलपर , ऐसे  as hobbyists and students .
The Alps are one  of the ग्रेट पहाड़ दायरा प्रणालियों of यूरोपीय stretching लगभग आरपार आठ अल्पाइन देशों इससे ऑस्ट्रिया और स्लोवेनियाई in the ईस्ट  , Switzerland , Liechtenstein , Germany , France to the west and Italy and Monaco to the south .
The mountains were formed over  सैंकड़ों of लाखो of सालो as the अफ़्रीकी और यूरेशियाई tectonic  plates collided .
चरम shortening caused by the इवेंट resulted in समुद्री sedimentary रॉक्स उठती  by thrusting and folding into high mountain peaks such as Mont Blanc and the Matterhorn .
Mont Blanc  spans the french–italian किनारा , और at is the  highest mountain in the Alps .
The Alpine region area contains many peaks higher  than , ज्ञात as the `` four-thousanders `` .
The altitude and size of  the दायरा affects the जलवायु in यूरोपीय ; in the kyu वर्षण  levels vary greatly and climatic conditions consist of distinct zones .
वन्यजीव ऐसे as ibex सजीव in the उच्चतर चोटियों to elevations of , और पौधे ऐसे as edelweiss  grow in rocky areas in lower elevations as well as in higher elevations .
Evidence of human habitation in the Alps goes back to  the paleolithic era  .
A mummified man , determined to be 5,000 years old , was discovered on a  हिमानी at the austrian–italian किनारा in 1991  .
by the 6th सदी bc , the  Celtic La Tène culture was well established .
Hannibal may  have crossed the ऐल्प्स साथ  a herd of elephants , and the Romans had settlements in the region .
In 1800 Napoleon crossed one  of the पहाड़ गुजरता साथ an फौज  of 40,000 .
The 18th and 19th centuries saw an influx of naturalists , writers , and artists , in particular  the romantics , followed by the सुनहरी आयु of alpinism as mountaineers began to ascend the  peaks .
In World War II the Third Reich  invaded the अल्पाइन देशों , साथ the एक्सेप्शन of स्विट्ज़रलैंड और liechtenstein ; एडोल्फ हिटलर रखा a आधार of आपरेशन  in the Bavarian Alps throughout the war .
The Alpine region  रै a दमदार सांस्कृतिक पहचान  .
The traditional culture of farming  , cheesemaking , और woodworking स्टिल exists in अल्पाइन गांवों , हालांकि the पर्यटक उद्योग began to grow जल्दी in the 20th सदी और विस्तारित greatly बाद संसार युद्ध ii  to become the dominant industry by the end of the century .
The Winter Olympic Games have been  hosted in the स्विस , फ्रेंच , इतालवी , आस्ट्रिया  and German Alps .
At present the  प्रदेश is घर to 14 लाख लोगों और रै 120  million annual visitors .
Lois Patrice Griffin ( née  pewterschmidt ) is a अक्षर इससे the एनिमेटेड टेलीविज़न  series Family Guy .
She is voiced by writer Alex Borstein and first appeared on television  , साथ साथ the बाकी of the परिवार in the 15-minute छोटी on दिसम्बर  20 , 1998 .
Lois was created and  designed by श्रेणी निर्माता सेठ macfarlane  .
MacFarlane was asked to pitch a pilot to the Fox Broadcasting Company based on Larry and  स्टीव , a छोटी बना by macfarlane जिससे प्रदर्शित a middle-aged अक्षर नामित लैरी और  an intellectual dog , Steve .
After the pilot was given  the ग्रीन लाइट , the griffin परिवार appeared on the  episode `` Death Has a Shadow `` .
Lois is the  माँ of the griffin  family .
With  उसके husband पीटर , वो रै था तीन  children : Meg , Chris , and Stewie .
Lois is often portrayed as a stereotypical television mother , despite  उसके admitting to होने a ड्रग  user , a recovering meth addict kleptomaniac .
Lois  रै भी था अनेक अफेयर्स , एक of जिससे  allegedly resulted in the conception of Meg .
वो रै appeared in अन्य मीडिया relating to परिवार guy—including a  video game , commercials and books—and inspired an entire line of merchandise .
Lois 's distinctive New York  एक्सेंट originated इससे a अक्षर in a स्टेज दिखाएँ कि एलेक्स borstein  had performed in , which was largely inspired by a relative who grew up on Long Island , New York .
परिवार हस्तांतरण of बास्क भाषा  ( Basque as initial language )
Percentage of students  पंजीकृत in बास्क भाषा स्कूलों  ( 2000–2005 ) .
Location of the  basque-language प्रांतों  within Spain and France
Basque ( endonym : , ) is the ancestral  भाषा of the बास्क लोगों , जो inhabit the बास्क देश , a प्रदेश spanning  an area in northeastern Spain and southwestern France .
It  is बोला by 27 % of basques  in all territories ( 714,136 out of 2,648,998 ) .
Of these , 663,035 live in the Spanish part of the Basque country and the  बाकी 51,100 सजीव in the  French part .
In  अकादमिक चर्चाएँ of the वितरण of बास्क in स्पेन और फ़्रांस  , it is customary to refer to three ancient provinces in France and four Spanish provinces .
Native speakers are concentrated in a contiguous area including  भाग of the स्पेनी autonomous समुदायों of the बास्क देश और नावारा और in  the western half of the French département of Pyrénées-Atlantiques .
The Basque Autonomous Community is an administrative entity within the  binational ethnographic बास्क देश incorporating the परंपरागत स्पेनी प्रांतों of biscay ,  Gipuzkoa , and Álava , which retain their existence as politico-administrative divisions .
These provinces and many areas of Navarre  हैं heavily आबादी by जातीय basques , लकिन बास्क थी , at तनिक जबतक the 1990s , नहीं बोला as a देशी भाषा in सबसे of álava , पश्चिमी भाग of biscay और सेंट्रल और दक्षिणी क्षेत्रों of नावारा , either क्युकी  it had been replaced by Spanish along the centuries , in some areas , or because it had never been spoken there , in other areas .
in southwestern फ़्रांस , the प्राचीन basque-populated  provinces were Labourd , Lower Navarre , and Soule .
They and other regions were consolidated into a single  département in 1790 अंतर्गत the नाम basses-pyrénées , a नाम जिससे persisted जबतक 1970  .
A  मानकीकृत रूप of the बास्क भाषा , पुकारा euskara  Batua , was developed by the Basque Language Academy in the late 1960s .
Euskara Batua was created so that Basque language  could be used—and easily समझा by सब बास्क speakers—in औपचारिक परिस्थितियों ( शिक्षा , द्रव्यमान  media , literature ) , and this is its main use today .
The role of this  मानक बास्क भाषा depends on the भाषाई  educational model of each region and each school .
In most areas of the  स्पेनी बास्क देश , the शैक्षणिक मॉडल d , जहाँ सब विषय हैं सिखाया  in Basque , except `` Spanish language and literature '' ( which is taught in Spanish ) is now the predominant model .
In France , the Basque language school Seaska  और the संघ लिये a दुभाषिया ( बास्क और फ्रेंच ) schooling ikasbi मिलें a चौड़ी दायरा of बास्क भाषा  educational needs up to the Sixth Form , while often struggling to surmount financial and administrative constraints .
Apart from this standardized version , there are five  प्रमुख बास्क dialects : bizkaian , gipuzkoan , और अपर navarrese in स्पेन , और navarrese–lapurdian  and Zuberoan ( in France ) .
Although they take their names from the mentioned historic provinces , the dialect  सीमाएँ हैं नहीं congruent साथ प्रांत सीमाएँ  .
The President , Directors and  कम्पनी , of the बैंको of the संयुक्त राज्य , commonly ज्ञात as the पहला बैंको of the संयुक्त राज्य , थी a सेंट्रल बैंको , चार्टर्ड  for a term of twenty years , by the United States Congress on February 25 , 1791 .
Establishment of the Bank was included in a three-part expansion of federal fiscal and monetary power ( along with a federal mint  और excise कर ) championed by सिकंदर हैमिल्टन , पहला सचिव  of the Treasury .
Hamilton  believed a सेंट्रल बैंको थी जरुरी to stabilize और improve the स्वदेश 's क्रेडिट  , and to improve handling of the financial business of the United States government under the newly enacted Constitution .
Officially proposed to the first  सत्र of the पहला कॉंग्रेस in 1790 , हैमिल्टन 's बैंको faced फैली  resistance from opponents of increased federal power .
Secretary of State Thomas Jefferson and James Madison led the opposition , which claimed that the bank was unconstitutional , and that it  benefited व्यापारियों और निवेशकों at the व्यय of the बहुमत of the जनसांख्यिकी  .
The First Bank building is now a National Historic Landmark located in  फिलाडेल्फिया , पेन्सिलवेनिया भीतर स्वतंत्रता नेशनल ऐतिहासिक पार्क  .
James  वेस्ले marsters ( born अगस्त 20 , 1962 ) is  an American actor and musician .
Marsters first came to the attention of the general public playing the popular character Spike , a platinum-blond yobbish English vampire in the  टेलीविज़न श्रेणी buffy the पिशाच slayer और इसके spin-off श्रेणी , देवदूत  , from 1997 to 2004 .
Since then , he has gone on to play other science fiction roles , such as the alien supervillain  brainiac on the सुपरमैन -inspired श्रेणी smallville , the omnisexual समय मुसाफ़िर कप्तान जॉन हार्ट in अंग्रेजों science-fiction दिखाएँ torchwood और  terrorist Barnabas Greeley in Sci fi 's Caprica .
Marsters appeared in a  supporting भूमिका in the 2007 फिल्म  P.S .
I Love You and as the main  विपक्षी , piccolo , in the 2009  fantasy adventure film Dragonball Evolution .
He appeared  as a पुनरावर्ती अक्षर in the  first season of the revival of Hawaii 5-0 .
In molecular biology , human chorionic gonadotropin ( hCG ) is a  हार्मोन उत्पादित by the निषेचित अंडा बाद  conception .
Later during pregnancy it is made by  the विकासशील placenta , और बाद by the placental घटक syncytiotrophoblast  .
Some cancerous tumors produce this  हार्मोन ; इसलिए , elevated स्तर measured जब the रोगी is  not pregnant can lead to a cancer diagnosis .
However , it is not  ज्ञात whether इस उत्पादन is a  contributing cause or an effect of tumorigenesis .
The pituitary analogue of hCG , known as  luteinizing हार्मोन ( lh ) , is उत्पादित in the pituitary ग्रंथि of  males and females of all ages .
, the FDA has prohibited the sale of ``  होम्योपैथिक '' और over the काउंटर hcg आहार उत्पाद  and declared them fraudulent and illegal .
Beyoncé Giselle Knowles-Carter , known by her stage name Beyoncé ( ;  born सितंबर 4 , 1981 ) , is an अमरीकी सिंगर , songwriter  , dancer , and actress .
Born and raised in Houston , Texas , she performed in singing and dancing competitions as a child  पहले forming in 1990 a समूह साथ केली rowland और latavia roberson कि थी  eventually named Destiny 's Child .
Once signed to Columbia  रिकॉर्ड , the लड़कियों subsequently became  one of the world 's best-selling girl groups of all time .
The group was plagued by  आतंरिक विरोध और विधिक turmoil और नॉलेस suffered  from depression that lasted for a number of years .
During the group 's hiatus , Knowles released her debut solo album  dangerously in प्रेम ( 2003 ) , जिससे अर्जित उसके पाँच ग्रैमी पुरस्कार और रै बेची a कुल of 4.9 लाख  copies in the US alone .
It spawned Billboard number one singles `` Crazy in Love , ''  माना by vh1 to be the `` महानतम सोंग  Of the 00 's , '' and `` Baby Boy . ''
Following  the disbandment of नियति 's चाइल्ड in 2005 , नॉलेस 's दूसरी सोलो  album B'Day ( 2006 ) contained the top five singles `` Déjà Vu `` , `` Irreplaceable `` , and `` Beautiful Liar `` .
Her performance in Dreamgirls  ( 2006 ) अर्जित उसके दो सुनहरी  Globe nominations .
Knowles ' work playing Etta James in  कि फिल्मी प्रेरित उसके subsequent एल्बम  I Am ...
Sasha Fierce (  2008 ) जिससे शाखित हिट्स `` if i यहूद a लड़के `` , `` सिंगल  Ladies ( Put a Ring on It ) `` , `` Halo `` , and `` Sweet Dreams `` .
The album also helped Knowles earn six Grammys in 2010 ,  तोड़कर the रिकार्ड लिये सबसे ग्रैमी पुरस्कार जीती by a मादा  artist in one night .
Her fourth album 4 ( 2011 ) deviated  towards परंपरागत r & b और became उसके चौथी लगातार  number one album on the Billboard 200 .
In January 2012 , Knowles  दिया जनम to बेटी ब्लू आइवी कार्टर , उसके पहला  child with husband Jay-Z .
Knowles has sold over 13 million albums in the US and 118 million records worldwide ( as well as a further 50 million  रिकॉर्ड साथ नियति 's चाइल्ड ) , और is एक of the best-selling म्यूज़िक कलाकारों of सब  time .
The  रिकॉर्डिंग उद्योग संघ  of America ( RIAA ) recognized Knowles as the Top Certified Artist of the 2000s .
In 2009 , Billboard named her the  शीर्ष रेडियो गीतों कलाकार of the दशक और क्रमित  her the Top Female Artist and the fourth Artist of the Decade .
Beyoncé Knowles is the most  मनोनीत स्त्री in ग्रैमी पुरस्कार इतिहास , receiving 17 पुरस्कार ; अन्य accolades शामिल 12 एमटीवी वीडियो म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार , 7 बिलबोर्ड पुरस्कार सहित  a Millennium Award , and a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame as part of Destiny 's Child .
`` Angry All the Time '' is  the शीर्षक of a सोंग लिखा by ब्रूस robison और पहला अंकित on उसके 1998 एल्बम  Wrapped .
it थी बाद covered  by Tim McGraw with guest vocalist Faith Hill .
Released in July 2001 , McGraw 's version was the  दूसरी सिंगल इससे mcgraw 's नियत इस सर्कस bas एल्बम  .
The song reached Number  एक on the बिलबोर्ड hot देश singles  & Tracks ( now Hot Country Songs ) charts .
Dear John is a 2010  अमरीकी रोमांटिक नाटक - युद्ध फिल्मी अभिनीत  Amanda Seyfried and Channing Tatum .
It was released  theatrically in उत्तर अमेरिका on फ़रवरी  5 , 2010 .
The film was  निर्देशित by lasse hallström , और it is an अनुकूलन  of Nicholas Sparks 's novel of the same name .
It  फ़ॉलो the जीवन of a सिपाही ( चेनिंग टैटम ) बाद  he falls in love with a young woman ( Amanda Seyfried ) .
वे decide to एक्सचेंज अक्षर to प्रत्येक अन्य  after he is deployed to the war .
The movie was filmed in 2009 in  चार्ल्सटन , दक्षिण कैरोलिना .
Despite receiving negative reviews , the  फिल्मी बना a दमदार बक्सा दफ्तर प्रदर्शन , knocking बंद अवतार बाद सात सप्ताहांत  in first place and grossing a total of $ 114,977,104 worldwide .
The film was released on May 25 ,  2010 on dvd और blu-ray  .
These are  सूचियाँ of the व्यस्ततम एयरपोर्ट  in the United States .
hartsfield–jackson अटलांटा अंतरराष्ट्रीय विमानक्षेत्र  is the busiest single airport in the United States .
However , all of the New York City metropolitan area 's airports combine to create the largest airport system in the United States , second in the world in  शर्तें of यात्री ट्रैफ़िक , और पहला in the संसार in शर्तें of कुल उड़ान  operations .
Dora the Explorer is an American animated television series created by  क्रिस gifford , वैलेरी वाल्श , और eric weiner  .
Dora the  एक्सप्लोरर became a नियमित  series in 2000 .
The show is carried on the Nickelodeon cable  टेलीविज़न संजाल , सहित the संबद्ध उपनाम jr.  channel .
It  aired on सीबीएस जबतक सितंबर  2006 .
A  spanish-dubbed संस्करण पहला aired as भाग of a उपनाम en español ब्लाक on एनबीसी सार्वभौमिक -owned telemundo through सितंबर  2006 ; since April 2008 , this version of the program has been carried on Univision as part of the Planeta U block .
Santa Fe ( ; ( Tewa : Ogha Po'oge , ) )  is the पूंजी of the u.S. राज्य of नई  Mexico .
It is the  fourth-largest नगर in the राज्य और  is the seat of .
Santa Fe ( meaning  “holy faith” in स्पेनी ) था a जनसांख्यिकी  of 67,947 in the 2010 census .
It is the principal city of a Metropolitan Statistical Area which  encompasses सब of सांता fe काउंटी और is भाग of the larger albuquerque-santa  Fe-Las Vegas Combined Statistical Area .
The city’s full name when founded was La Villa Real de la Santa Fé de San  फ्रांसिस्को de asís ( “the royal कस्बा of the पावन आस्था of st. फ्रांसिस of assisi” ) .
Pepsi ( stylized in lowercase as pepsi , formerly stylized in uppercase as  पेप्सी ) is a कार्बोनेटेड नरम पेय कि is उत्पादित और manufactured by पेप्सिको  .
Created and developed in 1893  और introduced as ब्रैड 's पेय , it थी renamed as pepsi-cola  on August 28 , 1898 , then to Pepsi in 1961 .
1765 broadside
The Sons of Liberty was a group  consisting of अमरीकी देशप्रेमी कि originated  in the pre-independence North American British colonies .
The group was formed  to protect the अधिकारों of the colonists और to लो to the गलियों विरूद्ध  the taxes by the British government .
They are best known for undertaking the Boston Tea  पार्टी in 1773 , जिससे led to the असहनीय अधिनियमों ( an तीव्र crackdown by  the British government ) , and a counter-mobilization by the Patriots .
ओसाका किला
is a city  in the कन्साई प्रदेश of जापानी 's प्रमुख द्वीप of होन्शू , a designated नगर अंतर्गत the लोकल स्वायत्तता विधि , the पूंजी नगर of ओसाका  Prefecture and also the largest part of the Keihanshin metropolis , which comprises three major cities of Japan , Kyoto , Osaka and Kobe .
Located at the mouth of the Yodo River on Osaka Bay ,  ओसाका is जापानी 's तीसरा largest नगर by जनसांख्यिकी बाद टोकियो  ( special wards ) and Yokohama .
Keihanshin is the second largest metropolitan area in Japan by population and one of the largest metropolitan areas highly ranked in the world ,  साथ nearly 19 लाख लोगों , और by जीडीपी the दूसरी largest क्षेत्रफल in जापानी और the सातवाँ largest क्षेत्रफल  in the world .
historically the वाणिज्यिक बीच of जापानी , ओसाका  functions as one of the command centers for the Japanese economy .
The ratio between daytime and night time population is 141 % , the  उच्चतम in जापानी , highlighting इसके औकात as an आर्थिक  center .
Its  nighttime जनसांख्यिकी is 2.6 लाख , the तीसरा in the देश , लकिन in दिन the जनसांख्यिकी surges to 3.7 लाख , दूसरी तभी बाद  Tokyo ( combining the special wards of Tokyo , which is not a single incorporated city , for statistical purposes ; see the Tokyo article for more information on the definition and makeup of Tokyo ) .
Osaka used to be referred to as the in feudal Edo period because it was  the केन्द्र of व्यापार लिये राइस , बनाना the पहला  modern futures exchange market in the world .
The Little Mermaid is a 1989 American  एनिमेटेड musical काल्पनिक फिल्मी उत्पादित by वॉल्ट डिज़्नी विशेषता एनिमेशन  and distributed by Walt Disney Pictures .
Based on the Danish fairy tale by  hans ईसाई andersen , the छोटी मरमेड tells the स्टोरी of a खूबसूरत मरमेड जो  dreams of becoming human .
Written , directed , and produced by Ron Clements and John Musker , with music by Alan Menken and Howard Ashman , the film features the voices  jodi बेंसन , क्रिस्टोफर डेनियल barnes , पैट कैरल , सैमुएल E. राइट , जेसन मारिन , केनेथ  Mars , Buddy Hacket , and Rene Auberjonois .
The 28th film in the Walt Disney Animated Classics series , The Little Mermaid was released to theaters on November 14 , 1989 to largely  धनात्मक समीक्षाएँ , garnering $ 84 लाख at the बक्सा दफ्तर दौरान इसके आरंभिक रिलीज , और $ 211 लाख in कुल आजीवन सकल  .
After the success of the 1988 Disney / Amblin film Who Framed Roger Rabbit , The Little Mermaid is given credit for  श्वास जीवन वापस into the आर्ट of डिज़्नी एनिमेटेड विशेषता films बाद a स्ट्रिंग of नाजुक or  commercial failures produced by Disney that dated back to the early 1970s .
It also marked  the प्रारंभ of the era ज्ञात as the डिज़्नी  Renaissance .
A stage adaptation of the  फिल्मी साथ a किताब by डग राइट और अतिरिक्त गीतों by एलन menken और नई गीतों ग्लेन स्लेटर  opened in Denver in July 2007 and began performances on Broadway January 10 , 2008 .
alt=Close-up  फ़ोटो of a मेटल चमचा भर साथ  a viscous , clear purple fluid
Purple drank is a  कठबोली पद लिये a recreational ड्रग लोकप्रिय in the हिप हॉप जातियाँ in  the southern United States , originating in Houston , Texas .
Its main ingredient is prescription  -strength खांसी सिरप containing codeine  and promethazine .
Cough syrup is typically mixed with ingredients  ऐसे as sprite नरम पेय or पहाड़  Dew and pieces of Jolly Rancher candy .
The  purplish वर्ण of जामुनी  drank comes from dyes in the cough syrup .
There are numerous slang terms for purple drank , including  sizzurp , झुकना , सिरप , पिया , barre , जामुनी जेली , टेक्सास  tea , and Tsikuni .
First/given ,  मध्य , और last/family/surname आरेख साथ J.  S. Bach as example .
J. S. Bach shared his given name  साथ छह तात्कालिक परिवार सदस्यों और अनेक विस्तारित परिवार  members .
He  साझा उसके परिवार नाम साथ  most family members .
A given name , in Western  contexts प्रायः referred to as a पहला नाम , is a निजी नाम कि specifies और differentiates between सदस्यों of a समूह of individuals , विशेषकर in a परिवार , सब  of whose members usually share the same family name ( surname ) .
A given  नाम is purposefully दिए , प्रायः by a चाइल्ड 's अभिभावक at  or near birth , in contrast to an inherited one such as a family name .
a दिए नाम is sometimes  legally changed through a name change .
Given names  हैं प्रायः प्रयुक्त in a परिचित और दोस्ताना  manner in informal situations .
In more  औपचारिक परिस्थितियों the उपनाम is प्रयुक्त बजाय , जबतक it is जरुरी to  distinguish between people with the same surname .
The  मुहावरा `` on a first-name आधार '' ( or `` on first-name शर्तें '' ) alludes to the अपनेपन  of addressing another by a given name .
The western style of  having दोनो a परिवार नाम ( उपनाम ) और a  given name is far from universal .
In many  देशों it is आम लिये ordinary लोगों  to have only one name ( a mononym ) .
Hydrochloric acid is a clear ,  colourless समाधान of हाइड्रोजन chloride ( h cl  ) in water .
It is a highly corrosive ,  दमदार खनिज एसिड साथ अनेक औद्योगिक  uses .
Hydrochloric acid is found  naturally in gastric एसिड  .
Historically called muriatic acid , and spirits of salt ,  हाइड्रोक्लोरिक एसिड थी उत्पादित इससे vitriol ( sulfuric  acid ) and common salt .
It first appeared during the Renaissance  , और तब it थी प्रयुक्त by chemists ऐसे as glauber  , Priestley and Davy in their scientific research .
With major production starting in the Industrial Revolution , hydrochloric acid is used in the chemical industry as a  रासायनिक अभिकर्मक in the large-scale उत्पादन  of vinyl chloride for PVC plastic , and MDI / TDI for polyurethane .
It has numerous smaller-scale applications ,  सहित household सफ़ाई , उत्पादन of जिलेटिन और अन्य खाना एडिटिव , descaling  , and leather processing .
About 20 million tonnes of  हाइड्रोक्लोरिक एसिड हैं उत्पादित annually  .
Wheat ( Triticum spp .  ) is a खाद्यान्न अनाज , originally इससे the levant प्रदेश of  the Near East and Ethiopian Highlands , but now cultivated worldwide .
In 2010 , world production of wheat was 651 million tons , making it  the तीसरा most-produced खाद्यान्न बाद मक्का ( 844 लाख टन ) और राइस ( 672  million tons ) .
Wheat  थी the दूसरी most-produced खाद्यान्न in 2009 ; संसार उत्पादन in कि साल  was 682 million tons , after maize ( 817 million tons ) , and with rice as a close third ( 679 million tons ) .
This grain is grown  on अधिक जमीन क्षेत्रफल than कोई अन्य  commercial food .
World trade in wheat  is वृहद than लिये सब अन्य  crops combined .
Globally , wheat is the  अग्रणी सोर्स of सब्ज़ी प्रोटीन in इंसान खाना  , having a higher protein content than soybeans or the other major cereals , maize ( corn ) or rice .
In terms of total  उत्पादन tonnages प्रयुक्त लिये खाना , it is फिलहाल दूसरी to राइस as the प्रमुख इंसान खाना क्रॉप और ahead of मक्का  , after allowing for maize 's more extensive use in animal feeds .
Wheat was a key factor enabling the emergence of city-based  समाजों at the प्रारंभ of सभ्यता क्युकी it थी एक of the पहला फसलों कि could be easily cultivated on a विशाल स्केल , और  had the additional advantage of yielding a harvest that provides long-term storage of food .
Wheat contributed to the emergence of  city-states in the fertile crescent , सहित  the Babylonian and Assyrian empires .
Wheat grain is a staple  खाना प्रयुक्त to मेक आटा लिये leavened , चपटा और steamed breads , बिस्कुट , कुकीज़ , cakes , नाश्ता खाद्यान्न ,  pasta , noodles , couscous and for fermentation to make beer , other alcoholic beverages , or biofuel .
Wheat is planted to a limited extent as a  forage क्रॉप लिये पशुधन , और इसके स्ट्रॉ can be प्रयुक्त as a निर्माण सामग्री  for roofing thatch .
The whole grain can be  milled to छोड़ बस the भ्रूणपोष लिये  white flour .
the by-products of इस  are bran and germ .
The whole grain is a  concentrated सोर्स of विटामिन , खनिज , और प्रोटीन , जबकि the  refined grain is mostly starch .
मुद्रण
To publish is to make  सामग्री उपलब्धियाँ to the सामान्य पब्लिक  .
जबकि विशिष्ट उपयोग of the पद may vary among देशों , it is प्रायः लागू to  text , images , or other audio-visual content on any traditional medium , including paper ( newspapers , magazines , catalogs , etc . ) .
The word publication  अर्थात् the अधिनियम of प्रकाशन , और  also refers to any printed copies .
Melissa & Joey is an ABC Family original television series  अभिनीत मेलिसा जोन हार्ट और जॉय लॉरेंस  .
It first  aired on एबीसी परिवार on  August 17 , 2010 .
The  श्रेणी फ़ॉलो लोकल राजनेता mel बुर्के ( मेलिसा जोन हार्ट ) और जो longo ( जॉय लॉरेंस  ) , whom Mel hires to look after her niece and nephew after a Ponzi scheme leaves him broke .
The series was renewed by ABC Family for a second season of fifteen  एपीसोड , जिससे began airing on may 30 , 2012 और ended on अगस्त  29 , 2012 .
Melissa & Joey ranks as cable TV 's # 1 telecast at 8 o'clock  आरपार निशाना ऑडियंस 18–34 , 18–49 और 12–34  demographics .
On August 17 , 2012 , ABC Family  नवीनीकृत मेलिसा & जॉय लिये a  third season , set to premiere in spring 2013 .
The Dharma wheel , often used  to represent the प्रतिष्ठित eightfold पाथ
The Noble Eightfold Path ( , ) is one of the  प्रिंसिपल शिक्षाओं of the बुद्ध , जो वर्णित it as the रास्ता अग्रणी to the cessation of कष्ट ( dukkha ) और the उपलब्धि  of self-awakening .
It is used to  develop इनसाइट into the सच्चा प्रकृति of phenomena  ( or reality ) and to eradicate greed , hatred , and delusion .
The Noble Eightfold Path is the fourth of the Buddha 's Four Noble Truths ; the first element of the  प्रतिष्ठित eightfold पाथ is , in फेरे , an समझना  of the Four Noble Truths .
It is  भी ज्ञात as the मध्य  Path or Middle Way .
All eight elements of the Path begin with the word `` right '' , which  translates the शब्द samyañc ( in संस्कृत ) or sammā (  in Pāli ) .
These denote completion , togetherness , and coherence , and can also  सुझाएँ the होश of `` पूर्ण '' or `` आदर्श  '' .
'Samma ' is also translated as ``  wholesome '' , `` हिकमत '' और `` skillful  '' .
In Buddhist  प्रतीकवाद , the प्रतिष्ठित  Eightfold Path is often represented by means of the dharma wheel ( dharmachakra ) , whose eight spokes represent the eight elements of the path .
The Grammy Award for Song of the  साल is an सम्मान प्रस्तुत at the ग्रैमी पुरस्कार ,  a ceremony that was established in 1958 and originally called the Gramophone Awards .
Awards in several categories are distributed annually by the National Academy  of रिकॉर्डिंग कला और sciences of the संयुक्त राज्य to `` सम्मान कलाकारी उपलब्धि , तकनीकी proficiency और overall excellence in the रिकॉर्डिंग उद्योग , बगैर लिहाज़  to album sales or chart position . ''
अर्थशास्त्र is the सोशल विज्ञान  that analyzes the production , distribution , and consumption of goods and services .
The term economics comes from the Ancient Greek ( ' , `` management of a household ,  प्रशासन '' ) इससे ( ' , `` हाउस '' ) + ( ' , `` कस्टम '' or `` विधि ''  ) , hence `` rules of the house ( hold ) '' .
राजनैतिक अर्थव्यवस्था थी the पहले नाम लिये the विषय , लकिन अर्थशास्त्रियों in the लेट 19th सदी सुझाया `` अर्थशास्त्र '' as a shorter पद लिये `` आर्थिक विज्ञान '' कि भी avoided  a narrow political-interest connotation and as similar in form to `` mathematics `` , `` ethics '' , and so forth .
A focus of the subject is how  आर्थिक एजेंटों व्यवहार or interact  and how economies work .
Consistent with this ,  a प्राथमिक textbook भेद is between microeconomics  and macroeconomics .
Microeconomics examines the behavior of basic elements in the economy , including individual  एजेंटों ( ऐसे as households और firms or as खरीदार और विक्रेता ) और बाज़ार , और उनके  interactions .
Macroeconomics analyzes the entire  अर्थव्यवस्था और मुद्दे affecting it , सहित बेरोजगारी , महंगाई , आर्थिक  growth , and monetary and fiscal policy .
Other broad distinctions include those between positive economics ( describing `` what is '' ) and normative economics ( advocating `` what ought to be '' ) ; between economic theory and applied economics ; between rational and behavioral economics ; and between mainstream economics ( more `` orthodox '' and  dealing साथ the `` rationality-individualism-equilibrium नेक्सस '' ) और शास्त अर्थशास्त्र ( अधिक `` कट्टरपंथी '' और dealing साथ the `` institutions-history-social ढांचा नेक्सस  '' ) .
Economic analysis may be applied throughout society , as in business  , वित्त , स्वास्थ्य परवाह , और सरकारी , लकिन भी to ऐसे विविध विषय  as crime , education , the family , law , politics , religion , social institutions , war , and science .
At the turn of the 21st century , the  expanding डोमेन of अर्थशास्त्र in the सोशल sciences रै महरूम वर्णित as  economic imperialism .
An increasing  क्रमांक of अर्थशास्त्रियों have पुकारा लिये increased जोर on पर्यावरणीय  sustainability ; this area of research is known as Ecological economics .
This is a list of Schedule  iv दवाएँ अंतर्गत the नियंत्रित substances अधिनियम लिये the संयुक्त  States .
जरूरी निष्कर्षों लिये  drugs to be placed in this schedule:
The drug or other substance has a low potential for  गाली सापेक्ष to the दवाएँ or अन्य substances in अनुसूची  III .
The drug  or अन्य पदार्थ रै a फिलहाल स्वीकृत चिकित्सा  use in treatment in the United States .
Abuse of the drug or other  पदार्थ may सीसे to सीमित शारीरिक dependence or मनोवैज्ञानिक dependence सापेक्ष to the दवाएँ or  other substances in schedule III .
The complete list of Schedule  iv दवाएँ हैं as फ़ॉलो  .
The  प्रशासनिक नियंत्रित substances  Code Number for each drug is included .
US county  household मध्य आय  2009 .
Median US  household आय , 2001-2011
Household income is a  माप commonly प्रयुक्त by the संयुक्त राज्य  government and private institutions .
Each household is  measured by the आय of प्रत्येक  resident over the age of 15 .
Income includes wages and  salaries , बेरोजगारी बीमे , विकलांगता भुगतान , चाइल्ड support  payments received , regular rental receipts , as well as any personal business , investment , or other kinds of income received routinely .
While inflation-adjusted (  `` रियल '' ) household आय था महरूम increasing लगभग  every year from 1945 to 1999 , it has since been flat and even decreased recently .
U.S. median household income  गिरी इससे $ 51,144 in 2010 to  $ 50,502 in 2011 .
Extreme poverty in the United  राज्य , अर्थ households जीना on कम than $ 2 प्रति दिन पहले सरकारी लाभ , doubled  from 1996 to 1.5 million households in 2011 , including 2.8 million children .
The residents of the household do not have to be related to the head  of the household लिये उनके आय to be माना भाग of the household 's  income .
As households tend to share a similar economic context , the  उपयोग of household आय remains among the सबसे widely स्वीकृत  measures of income .
That the size of a household is not commonly taken into account in such measures may distort any  विश्लेषण of fluctuations भीतर or among the household आय श्रेणी , और may रेंडर सीधा comparisons between  quintiles difficult or even impossible .
the बीतने रेट is पारिभाषित as the रेट of घटी  with height for an atmospheric variable .
The variable involved is  तापमान जबतक निर्दिष्ट वरना  .
The  शब्दावली arises इससे the शब्द बीतने  in the sense of a decrease or decline .
While most often applied to Earth  's माहौल the अवधारणा can be विस्तारित to कोई gravitationally  supported ball of gas .
Blue Mountain State is an  अमरीकी कॉमेडी श्रेणी कि premiered  on Spike on January 11 , 2010 .
The  श्रेणी निर्माता शामिल क्रिस romano और eric falconer , और it is  produced by Lionsgate Television .
The  श्रेणी is परिचय a fictional विश्वविद्यालयों , ब्लू  Mountain State , and its football team , `` The Mountain Goats . ''
It portrays certain aspects of American university  जीवन , सहित फ़ुटबॉल , sex , binge पीने , दवाएँ ,  wild partying , and hazing .
In February 2012 ,  it थी reported कि ब्लू पहाड़ राज्य होता  not be renewed for a fourth season .
In March 2013 , Ed  marinaro stated कि he is working on  a Blue Mountain State film .
Apple Inc. , formerly Apple Computer , Inc. , is an American multinational corporation headquartered in Cupertino , California that  डिजाइन , develops , और बिकता उपभोक्ता इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स , कंप्यूटर तन्त्र और निजी  computers .
Its best-known  हार्डवेयर उत्पाद हैं the मैक लकीर of कंप्यूटर , the ipod  music player , the iPhone smartphone , and the iPad tablet computer .
Its software includes the OS X and iOS  ऑपरेटिंग प्रणालियों , the itunes मीडिया ब्राउजर , the safari वेब ब्राउजर  , and the iLife and iWork creativity and production suites .
The company was  संस्थापित on अप्रैल 1 , 1976 , और incorporated  as Apple Computer , Inc. on January 3 , 1977 .
the शब्द `` कंप्यूटर '' थी removed इससे इसके नाम on जनवरी 9 , 2007 , reflecting इसके shifted  focus towards consumer electronics after the introduction of the iPhone .
Apple is the world 's second-largest  सूचना प्रौद्योगिकी कम्पनी by आय बाद samsung इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स  , and the world 's third-largest mobile phone maker after Samsung and Nokia .
Fortune magazine named Apple the most admired company in the  संयुक्त राज्य in 2008 , और in  the world from 2008 to 2012 .
however , the कम्पनी रै प्राप्त आलोचना लिये इसके ठेकेदारों ' मजदूर  practices , and for Apple 's own environmental and business practices .
, Apple maintains  394 खुदरा स्टोर्स in चौदह देशों as खूब as the  online Apple Store and iTunes Store .
it is the second-largest सरेआम traded निगम in  the world by market capitalization , with an estimated value of US $ 414 billion as of January 2013 .
, the company  था 72,800 स्थाई full-time कर्मचारी और 3,300 अस्थाई  full-time employees worldwide .
Its  विश्वव्यापी सालाना आय in 2012 totalled  $ 156 billion .
Section 8  आवास in the  South Bronx
Section 8 of the Housing Act of 1937 ( ) , often simply known as Section 8 , as repeatedly amended , authorizes the payment of  rental आवास सहायता to निजी जमींदार on निमित्त of लगभग 3.1 लाख low-income  households .
It operates through several programs , the largest of which , the Housing  चुनाव वाउचर कार्यक्रम , pays a विशाल portion of the rents और उपयोगिताएँ  of about 2.1 million households .
The  us विभाग of आवास और शहरी विकास  manages the Section 8 programs .
The Housing Choice Voucher Program provides `` tenant-based '' rental assistance ,  so a किरायेदार can मूव इससे एक ईकाई of at तनिक न्यूनतम आवास विशेषता  to another .
It also allows individuals to apply their monthly voucher towards the purchase of a home , with  over $ 17 अरब going towards ऐसे purchases प्रत्येक साल ( इससे ncsha.org  analysis ) .
The maximum  अनुमत वाउचर  is $ 2200 a month .
Section 8 also authorizes a variety of `` project-based '' rental assistance programs , under which the owner reserves some or all of the units in a building for low-income tenants ,  in वापसी लिये a संघीय सरकारी गारंटी to मेक up the अंतर between the किरायेदार 's योगदान और the किराया लिये 1 cent in the मालिक 's अनुबंध साथ the सरकारी  .
A tenant who  पत्ते a subsidized प्रोजेक्ट होगा खोना  access to the project-based subsidy .
The United States Department of Housing and Urban Development and United States Department of Veterans  अफेयर्स have a खास खण्ड 8 कार्यक्रम पुकारा vash ( दिग्गजों अफेयर्स supportive आवास ) , or hud-vash , जिससे देता आउट a निश्चित क्रमांक of खण्ड 8 वाउचर to योग्य बेघर और वरना vulnerable  US armed forces veterans .
Restaurants  categorized by प्रकार और सूचना  about these different types .
U.S.  संघीय आरक्षित टीप in  the mid-1990s
the इतिहास of the संयुक्त राज्य डालर  covers more than 200 years .
