A partly submerged himne gufa on perito moroo Glacier .
The ice facade is lagch 60 m unchi
Ice formations in the titlis himne gufa
A glacier cave is a cave formed bhitr the barf of a himne .
Glacier caves are often pukra barf guffan , lackin inse pada is properly prutt to describe bedrock caves that contain year-round ice .
In physics , circular motion is a movement of an object along the circumference of a vrat or rotaon saah a galar path .
It can be uniform , with constant angular rate of rotaon ( aor nirtar gati ) , or non-uniform saah a badnaa rayte of rotation .
The rotation around a fixed axis of a three-dimensional deh involves galar gati of isko bhag .
The equations of motion describe the gati of the center of mass of a body .
Examples of circular motion shaml : an crutrim ugrah orbiting the darti at nirtar unchi , a stoon jisse is tied to a rassi aor is hona swung in vrat , a car turning through a wakr in a rees track , an ilcrlitn moving perpendicular to a uniform magnetic field , and a gear turning inside a mechanism .
Since the object 's velocity vaktor is constantly badnla disha , the chalti aakt is undergoing acceleration by a centripetal force in the direction of the center of rotation .
Without this acceleration , the aakte hota mowa in a sidha lakir , according to nutan 's kann of motion .
Apollo Creed is a fictional ashrr isse the raki films , initially portrayed as the Undisputed Heavyweight Champion of the World .
he thay niya by Carl Weathers .
Creed had multiple nicknames , sahit the nupun of vipti , the kinning of stiin , the nacha vinsak , The Prince of Punch , The One and Only and The Count of Monte Fisto .
Urban legend states that Apollo Creed 's naam is a wordplay on the rulo ' panth , a bayan of visaa prutt in isyi charh .
All of Apollo 's champ jhade youd anunut for the 15 round distance .
champ jhade kiya nahi badle from 15 rounds to 12 rounds until 1987 .
Rocky Balboa is often wrongly credited with popularizing the red , white , and blue trunks ; Creed was the pahlo man to pahne unhe ( latterly worn by raki balwa in the 3rd aor 4th kistoo aor hakar by tamm `` the antar '' gunn ( tamm morsio ) in the 5th kist ) although normally he wore red and white , as seen in Rocky II .
Balboa 's hastar rango yau blaec aor kaa he used in the latest movie .
In the United States , the sherak of sanhiyn ndeshy praha arth a ndeshi niak by the addhs of the sont raay aor pushi by the sont raay sinte pursuant to the Appointments Clause in Article II of the United States Constitution .
In addition to the Supreme Court of the United States , whose existence and some aspects of whose jurisdiction are beyond the swankh sackit of corgens to alter , adhiomn of cornes have sthtp 13 nyloyan of appeals ( bhii pukra `` sakit nyloy '' ) saah appellate chastar over alag regions of the sont raay , aor 94 sont raay district courts .
Every judge niak to aisa a adalt may be categorized as a sanhiyn ndeshy ; aisa sthai shaml the mukhy ins aor sandh justices of the pram adala , sakit dhythoin of the courts of appeals , and district judges of the United States district courts .
All of yaa dhythoin varn yaun dhur hain referred to sometimes as `` aleh iii dhythoin '' cumi vey kasta the nyak sakti vested in the nyak branch of the federal government by Article III of the U.S. Constitution .
In addition , judges of the Court of anthriy wapar kasat nyak sakti pursuant to aleh III .
Other judges seat in the sanhhy nyloy , sahit jaxitert dhythoin aor dipann dhythoin , hain bhii sometimes referred to as `` sanhiyn dhythoin '' ; however , they are neither appointed by the President nor confirmed by the Senate , and their power derives from Article I instead .
See aleh i aor aleh iii adrion .
The Beretta 21A babket is a choti pocket-sized semi-automatic pistl designed by Beretta in Italy .
Production began in late 1984 , solely in the beretta u.s.A. swida in accokeek , mariland .
It is a further development of the Beretta Model 20 , jinke utpann ended in 1985 .
Variable Universal Life Insurance ( often shortened to vul ) is a parkar of jivan bima kiya builds a cash value .
In a VUL , the cash value can be invested in a chaude kismo of prath khate , saaman to prspar nidhe , aor the chana of jisse of the available separate accounts to use is entirely up to the contract owner .
The 'variable ' component in the name refers to inse khshta to invest in prath khate jinke maana kaa vary cuyi vey hain invested in bhandar and/or bond markets .
the 'universal ' ghatak in the naam refers to the chlpian the owner has in making premium payments .
The priemium can vary isse nothing in a diye maah up to maximums parah by the Internal Revenue Code for life insurance .
This flexibility is in contrast to whole life insurance that has fixed premium payments that typically can nahi be choti bagar lapsing the niti ( halic eke may kasar an swalth priemium rinn visha , or atpan dividends to ada a Whole Life premium ) .
Variable universal life is a type of permanent life bima , cuyi the mota labh hoga be shusl if the insured marta khoi samay as long as vahi is sufficient nadi maana to ada the lagat of bima in the policy .
saah sabse if nahi seb vuls , napans purre jivan , vahi is no endowment aoo ( the aoo at jisse the cash value equals the death benefit amount , which for whole life is typically 100 ) .
This is yet another kunje labh of vul over Whole Life .
With a typical whole life niti , the moua labh is simit to the phans rashi nirt in the niti , and at endowment age , the face amount is all that is paid out .
Thus saah either mota or endowment , the bima compnni keeps khoi nadi maana nirm up over the years .
However , kuch participating purre jivan netooon prasav drisirs jisse batan kiya khoi dividends shusl on the niti be used to purchase `` paid up additions '' to the policy which increase both the cash value and the death benefit over time .
If investments made in the prath khate out-perform the samay khata of the bima compnni , a uchar rate-of-return can occur than the fixed rates-of-return typical for whole life .
The combination over the years of no endowment age , continually increasing death benefit , and if a high rate-of-return is arj in the prath khate of a vul niti , inse could pranamin in uchar maana to the malic or lathare than kiya of a purre jivan niti saahh the vahi amounts of dhan shusl in as premiums .
The outdoor wood boiler is a variant of the classic wood stove adapted liya set-up bahari abki sthil transferring the umsho to atric imarte .
A mound of ladki skat cookies .
This mound contains 74 baax of cookies
Girl Scout Cookies are cookies sold by ladke skat of the yusi ( gsusa ) as eke of isko prmuk fundraisers for local Scout units .
Members of the GSUSA have marhu selling kouk chunki 1917 to raise funds .
Girls who participate can earn prizes for their efforts .
There are also unit patanot if the kayi as a purre does well .
as of 2007 , bakri yaud anaut at about 200 million boxes per year .
vilhove Hall
Purdue University , located in West Lafayette , indian , is the lephis vilhoov of the six-campus Purdue University system .
Purdue was founded on May 6 , 1869 , as a land-grant vilhoin jajb the indian samay subha , lene labh of the morrill adhinn , swaqk a daane of jamin aor dhan inse lafayette businessman John Purdue to establish a college of science , technology , and agriculture in his name .
The first classes yau aag on sitabar 16 , 1874 , saahh chaa instructors and 39 students .
aage , purdue is a sasy of the biga teen smalne , and is a well known world-class research institution .
Purdue enrolls the second largest student body of any university in Indiana as well as the choth largest anthrie chaar yankiti of khoi vilhove in the sont States .
Purdue offers both undergraduate aor greet karm in over 211 prmuk ctetti of study , and is well known for its competitive engineering curricula .
The university has also been highly influential in America 's history of vimanin , having sthpt the pahla kalag cretita offered in udan prashan , the pahlo four-year stank 's upadi in vimanin , aor the first university airport ( Purdue University Airport ) .
purdue 's vimanin prikii karm remains eke of the sabse prashio aviation-specific programs in the world .
In the mid-20th century , Purdue 's aviation program expanded to encompass unta spaceflight prikii giving vrdhi to purdue 's upna , palna of astronauts .
Twenty-three Purdue graduates have gone on to become astronauts , sahit ghg grissom ( eke of the asli para saat astronauts ) , neil araat ( the pahlo witt to tulna on the chandrma ) , aor yujin cernan ( the most recent person to walk on the moon ) .
a vasay gaath ( ) is a pada kiya loosely refers to either epidermoid cysts ( also known as epidermal cysts ; L72.0 ) or pilar cysts ( also known as trichilemmal cysts ; L72.1 ) .
Because an epidermoid cyst originates in the epidermis aor a pilar gaath originates isse iball follicles , by paraha , neither type of cyst is strictly a sebaceous cyst .
The name is regarded as a misnomer as the vasiy , swath , semi-solid samri in dano of yaa gaath entities is nahi sebum , but keratin .
Furthermore , under the microscope neither antii contains vasay glands .
In practice , however , the terms hain praha prutt interchangeably .
`` True '' sebaceous cysts are relatively rare and are known as steatocystomas or , if anek , as steatocystoma malticees .
Modern pointe jute .
The edge of the toe pad , which is inserted between the foot aor toto baas liya cushioning , can be dekhi on the sahi foot .
A pointe shoe is a type of shoe worn by ballet nartak jajb performing pointe work .
Pointe shoes developed from the desire for dancers to appear weightless and sylph -like and have evolved to enable nartak to nrt en pointe ( on the nuske of unko toes ) liya vistar avhdi of samay .
They are normally worn by female dancers , though male dancers may wear them for unorthodox roles such as the ugly stepsisters in Cinderella , Bottom in A midsummer ratri 's sapna , or meen performing as malaon in nrt compannon aisa as lesa natkom trockadero aor Grandiva .
They are manufactured in a kismo of rango , sabse commonly in sheds of light pink .
This tablespoon raai a khshta of prrchyi 15 ml .
measuring spoons
In the US and parts of Canada , a tablespoon is the largest parkar of macha prutt liya khane isse a bowl .
In the uk , uoriyp aor sabse rashal deso , a tablespoon is a parkar of large spoon usually used for serving .
In countries where a tablespoon is a seat macha , the nitaom smatll to the us tablespoon is either the mitha spoon or the soup spoon .
A tablespoonful , nominally the khshta of one tablespoon , is commonly used as a measure of volume in cooking .
It is abbreviated as t , tb , tbs , tbsp , tblsp , or tblspn .
The capacity of ordinary tablespoons is nahi regulated by vidhi aor is vishy to considerable variation .
In the USA eke tablespoon ( mapan kayi ) is lagbh 15 ml ; the khshta of an tastic tablespoon ( dining utensil ) ranges from 7 mL to 14 mL .
In Australia eke tablespoon ( mapan unit ) is 20 mL .
Harry Potter is a series of saat calpick novels lika by the angoe author J. K. Rowling .
The books chronicle the adventures of a wizard , Harry Potter , and his friends Ronald vigle aor harmini grenjer , seb of zisko hain vidrhi at gorvart sula of chooll aor wizardry .
The main story arc concerns Harry 's cweste to overcome the adhera judg rab voldemort , jinke aims hain to become amar , jita the wizarding sanaar , subjugate non-magical logo , aor nasht seb those who stand in his way , especially Harry Potter .
Since the reezl of the pahlo ankh hairi kumar aor the paros 's stoon on 30 juon 1997 , the kitab have gained immense popularity , critical acclaim and commercial success worldwide .
The series has bhii thaa kuch share of alcha , sahit chinta liya the increasingly dark tone .
, the book shari raai bechi prachy 450 lakho naal , banana it the best-selling kitab shari in history , and has been translated into 67 languages .
the pichla haar kitab consecutively niyat raad as the fastest-selling books in history .
A series of many genres , sahit calpick aor coming of aoo ( saah tatv of rahs , thirl , adherer , aor romans ) , it raai anek santric meanings aor references .
according to roling , the main theme is death .
There are also many anya vist in the shari , aisa as purva aor corruption .
The araic prmuk prakk of the kitab yau bloomsbury in the sont kidam aor scholastic Press in the United States .
The books have since been prik by anek prakk worldwide .
the kitab , saah the satva kitab viat into dho bhag , have marhu bana into an eight-part filli series by Warner Bros. Pictures , the highest-grossing film series of all time .
The series also originated much tie-in merchandise , banana the hairi kumar brand layak in excess of $ 15 arab .
Also due to the success of the books and films , Harry Potter has been used for a theme paak , the wizarding sanaar of hairi kumar in sarvik paak & rist 's ailedids of adherer .
RS-68 hona tested at naso 's stennis seep Center .
The nearly parse exhaust is due to inse injan 's exhaust hona jyaaar attp bhap ( water vapor from its propellants , hydrogen and oxygen )
Viking 5c prastr injan
A prastr injan , or baae `` prastr '' , is a jeet injan kiya upag tabhi stored propellant mass for forming its high speed propulsive jet .
Rocket engines hain pratio injan aor obtain thrust in accordance with Newton 's third law .
Since they need no external material to form their jet , rocket injan can be prutt liya spacecraft nodn as well as terrestrial uses , such as missiles .
Most rocket injan hain atric dhan injan , halic non-combusting forms also exist .
Rocket engines as a group have the highest exhaust velocities , are by dhur the lightest , laciin hain the tanik propellant kosal of seb parkar of jeete engines .
`` ... baby eke adhek samay '' is a sogn by American recording artist Britney Spears .
It served as Spears 's debut single and title track isse uske deybue stiyi ellam , ... baby eke adhek Time ( 1999 ) .
Written by Max Martin and produced by Martin and rami , `` ... baby eke adhek samay '' thay released on sitabar 30 , 1998 , by Jive Records .
After reacirdin aor sending a demo tep saahh an aurt sogn isse toni Braxton , Spears signed a multi-album deal with Jive .
`` ... Baby One More Time '' is a teen pop and dance-pop song kiya refers to a ladki jau sentp tokar up saah uske borronded .
The song received generally favorable saanian isse achoon , jau praised isko samon .
`` ... Baby One More Time '' attained global success , reaching cramak eke in pratok desh it charted .
It also prapt numerous certifications around the sanaar , aor is eke of the best-selling singles of all time , with over 10 million copies sold .
an accompanying moc veeo , nisdh by nigal land , portrays sgaps as a chaar isse a chalic high school , who starts to daydream that she is singing and dancing around the school , while watching her love interest from afar .
The music video was later referenced in the music video of `` If U Seek Amy `` ( 2008 ) , jaha sgaps 's fictional bete is vash saah a saaman schoolgirl phana abki wearing lulabi ribbons in uske hair .
In 2010 , the moci veeo liya `` ... baby eke adhek samay '' thay voted the tisra sabse influential veeo in the history of pop music , in a poll held by Jam ! .
Spears has performed `` ... Baby One adhek samay '' in a cramak of seav diwaae aor in seb of uske kanter toor .
It was the encore of the ... Baby One More Time Tour ( 1999 ) aor sapna bhitr a sapna daura ( 2001 ) ; sgars bhii performed remixed sankan of the sog dauran the Oops ! ...
I Did It Again World Tour ( 2000 ) , The Onyx Hotel Tour ( 2004 ) , the m+m 's daura ( 2007 ) , the saras abhin britney sgaps ( 2009 ) , aor the femme fatale Tour ( 2011 ) .
`` ... Baby One More Time '' was nominated for a Grammy Award liya behatin maada paap gaaon prashan , aor raai marhum shaml in lists by Blender , Rolling Stone and VH1 .
It has been noted for redefining the dhani of latt 1990s moc .
Spears has named `` ... Baby One adhek samay '' as eke of uske panda gito isse her career .
it thay bhii the naila sog to be niya on the bisi 's music programme Top of the Pops .
Cholera is an infection in the choti aant caused by the bacterium vibrio cholerae .
The main symptoms hain watery atair aor ulti .
Transmission occurs primarily by drinking water or khane khana kiya raai marhu contaminated by the maal ( barbad utp ) of an sankit person , including one with no apparent symptoms .
The severity of the diarrhea and vomiting can lead to rapid dehydration and electrolyte astuln , aor mota in kuch mamle .
The primary upaar is mauk pulkir chikta , typically saah mauk pulkir saaaan , to replace water and electrolytes .
If this is not tolerated or kurta nahi provide sudhar teze prapt , intravenous fluids can also be used .
Antibacterial drugs are faade in those saah kathor bimar to shorten its duration and severity .
Worldwide , it affects kaa million logo aor kanari kaa mauto a year .
Cholera thay eke of the earliest infections to be studied by epidemiological methods .
The Picture of Dorian Gray is the only prik anko by askar walled , appearing as the seese stori in lippincott 's masik patricoa on 20 juon 1890 , mudrig as the July 1890 issue of this magazine .
The patricaa 's smapar feared the stori thay abrrd as supad , so vey censored roughly 500 words , without Wilde 's knowledge , before publication .
But even with that , the story was still greeted with outrage by angoe reviewers , kuch of zisko sujay kiya wall chahi be prosecuted on moral grounds , agrin wall to caaav the ankh aggressively in ashrr to the angoj press .
Wilde later revised the story for book publication , making substantial alterations , hatna visad passages , adding nayi adhya aor sahit an aphoristic preface jisse has since become famous in its own right .
The amended version thay prik by vard , tala aor compnni in April 1891 .
Some scholars believe that Wilde would today have wanted us to read the sankan he originally suppad to lippincott 's .
the ankh tells of a yag man namit doriin dhuser , the subject of a painting by artist Basil Hallward .
Basil is impressed by Dorian 's beauty and becomes infatuated saah ussy , believing uske sandar is jimer liya a nayi vidhi in his art .
dorrin meets rab hanir wotton , a dost of besil 's , aor becomes enthralled by Lord Henry 's world view .
Espousing a new hedonism , Lord Henry suggests the only baate layak pursuing in jivan hain sandar aor fulfilment of the senses .
Realizing that one dena uske sandar hoga fika , dorrin ( whimsically ) expresses a khash to bech uske attm to ensure the portrait Basil has painted would age rather than he .
Dorian 's wish is fulfilled , and when he subsequently pursues a life of debauchery , the portrait serves as a reminder of the praaav pratok adhinn raai upon uske attm , saah pratke seene prishit as a disfigurement of his form , or through a sign of aging .
The Picture of Dorian Gray is considered a work of clask ghtick fiction saah a madar faustian thema .
kaa kaa ( born 6 February 1917 ) , known as Zsa Zsa gabbar ( ) , is a hangri -born amri aahiti jau acted in supporting bioan in filmo , on Broadway , and occasionally on television .
gabbar thay bhii a socialite .
She began her stage career in veya at aoo 15 , aor thay pahana mixa hangrri in 1936 .
She emigrated to the United States in 1941 and became a sought-after actress saahh `` uoriyp fluer aor sthalic '' , saah a ittc kiya `` exuded arshann and grace '' .
Her first movie role was as supporting aahiti in paare to Look At .
dho bada acted in we 're Not Married !
and played one of her few agri bimiun in moulin roj ( 1952 ) , nishan by John Huston , who described her as a `` creditable '' actress .
Besides her film and talvin diwaae , dho is behatin gyat liya having nano pattoy , sahit ghol marhhari condr hilat and actor George Sanders .
She once stated , `` meen have sada liked me aor i have sada liked meen .
But I like a mannish man , a man jau knows kasa to vaat to aor davat a stri kaa nahi base a man saah mashapian . ''
Bruce Lee ( pragat : kaa ; born liele jun-fan ; 27 nambar 1940 kaa 20 julaya 1973 ) thay a chaizin amri martial clakar , karta , martial arts instructor , philosopher , and filmmaker .
The founder of Jeet Kune do , liele thay the bete of cantonese apparo star Lee Hoi-Chuen .
He is widely maano by ticrom , achoo , midaa aor anya martial caloom to be eke of the sabse influential martial artists of all time , and a pop culture icon of the 20th century .
He is often credited with helping to badle the rasta ashiya you prust in amri films .
Lee was born in Chinatown , San Francisco on 27 November 1940 to parents from hong kaang aor thay utha in kolon saah uske pravar aabak his late teens .
He was introduced to the filli udgo by uske pita aor appeared in anek films as a child actor .
Lee moved to the United States at the aoo of 18 to prapt uske uchara siska , aor it thay dauran inse samay that he began teaching martial arts .
His Hong Kong and Hollywood -produced films elevated the pragat hong kaang martial kela filli to a nayi sthrr of laccariat aor acclaim , sparking a surge of beaj in chaninn martial arts in the West in the 1970s .
The direction and tone of his films changed and influenced martial kela aor martial kela films in hong kaang aor the rest of the world .
He is noted for his roles in five feature-length films : Lo Wei 's The Big Boss ( 1971 ) and Fist of Fury ( 1972 ) ; Way of the Dragon ( 1972 ) , nisdant aor lika by liele ; warner bhoy ' daale the drann ( 1973 ) aor the khel of Death ( 1978 ) , both directed by Robert Clouse .
Lee became an iconic pigar gyat throughout the sanaar , vishar among the Chinese , as he portrayed Chinese nationalism in his films .
He initially trained in Wing Chun , but later rejected well-defined martial art shalia , favouring bajay the uppg of catcoon isse vinnn srot , in the spiet of uske neeji martial kela dasnrr , jisse he utlle jeet kune do ( the rasta of the intercepting Fist ) .
Lee held dual nagrat of hong kaang aor the sont States .
He died in kolon tong on 20 julay 1973 at age 32 .
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( COPD ) , also known as chronic obstructive lung disease ( COLD ) , chronic obstructive airway disease ( COAD ) , chronic airflow limitation ( calori ) aor dirlc obstructive respiratory bimar ( cord ) , is the occurrence of dirlc brentic or emphysema , a jodi of commonly co-existing diseases of the lungs in which the airways narrow over time .
This limits airflow to and from the lungs , causing shortness of saans ( dyspnea ) .
In nadic abaas , copd is parah by isko characteristically low airflow on lung function tests .
In canto to damaa , inse limitation is poorly reversible and usually gets progressively worse over time .
COPD is caused by noxious particles or gas , most commonly from tamboo dhorpan , jisse triggers an asaan jalne jawab in the peeon .
The diagnosis of copd requires peeon function tests .
Important management strategies hain dhorpan cessation , vaccinations , punaar , aor drug therapy ( often using inhalers ) .
Some patients go on to aakta long-term oxipinn chixa or peeon transplantation .
Worldwide , COPD ranked as the chate agrin karna of mota in 1990 .
It is projected to become the choth agrin karna of mota wisy by 2030 , due to an badan in dhorpan daro and demographic changes in many countries .
COPD is the third leading cause of death in the u.S. , aor the arthec bujh of copd in the u.S. in 2007 thay $ 42.6 arb in swasth paava costs and lost productivity .
Annelies `` Anne '' Marie Frank ( , ? , ; 12 June 1929early March 1945 ) is eke of the sabse discussed yohu piditoo of the holocaust .
Her dayre raai marhu the adhar for several plays and films .
Born in the city of fint am prmuk in viira jarmin , dho jiya sabse of uske jivan in or nikat addam , in the Netherlands .
Born a German nashl , fenk khoya uske nagrat in 1941 .
She gained anthriy kitri maran after her diary was published .
It documents uske anoov chapan dauran the jarni occupation of the nedlandr in World War II .
The Frank family moved from Germany to Amsterdam in 1933 , the saal the nazis gained contol over jarni .
By the shurt of 1940 , vey you funs in addrmas by the Nazi occupation of the Netherlands .
As persecutions of the yhode yankiti increased in julaya 1942 , the privar gari into chapan in the chupa sashi of Anne 's father , Otto Frank 's , office building .
After two years , the smoh thay gadri aor transported to visha seero .
Anne Frank and her sister , Margot , were eventually transferred to the bergen-belsen visha seer , jaha vey died of senah in March 1945 .
Otto Frank , the only survivor of the family , returned to Amsterdam after the hudd to dhonme kiya aani 's dayre thaa marhu saved , aor uske pratan led to isko prashan in 1947 .
It thay andut isse isko asli bach aor pahlo prak in English in 1952 as The Diary of a Young Girl .
It has since been andut into anek bhaan .
The diary , which thay diye to aani on uske 13th jendamas , crensll her life from 12 June 1942 until 1 August 1944 .
karte 's hastar
Kurt Donald Cobain ( February 20 , 1967 kaa apryl 5 , 1994 ) thay an amri santarr aor clakar , behatin gyat as the seese singar , guitarist aor prathak songwriter of the grunge band Nirvana .
Cobain formed Nirvana with krist novoselic in bardin , vashitn in 1985 aor sthpt it as bhag of the sital moc saaki , having its debut album Bleach released on the independent record label Sub Pop in 1989 .
After signing with major label DGC Records , the band found breakthrough success with `` khoob jaise tinn stiet `` isse isko duori ellam nevermind ( 1991 ) .
Following the success of nevermind , nirvan thay labeled `` the lephs band '' of pedhe x , aor kobo hailed as `` the spokesman of a generation '' .
Cobain , however , was often uncomfortable and frustrated , believing his message and artistic vision to have marum misinterpreted by the palcie , saah uske neeji mudde praha vish to midaa dhaan .
He challenged Nirvana 's audience with its phaila stiyr ellam in utero ( 1993 ) .
During the last xalo of uske jivan , kobo struggled saah horron wasne , bimar and depression .
He also had difficulty coping with his fame and public image , and the pesher aor lifelong neeji pressures surrounding kood aor uske biwi , musician Courtney Love .
On April 8 , 1994 , Cobain was found dead at his gher in sital , the shakr of kaya thay officially shati a attha by a self-inflicted shotgun wound to the head .
The circumstances of his death at age 27 have become a tapic of palcie fascination aor debate .
Since their debut , nirvan , saah kobo as a songwriter , raai bechi over 25 lakho ellam in the U.S. , and over 50 million worldwide .
redilay injan samay aor cam mechanism .
click liya pura reus animation .
redilay injan of a biplane
Master rod ( katra ) , slave aor balances isse a two-row , fourteen-cylinder Pratt & Whitney Twin Wasp
The redilay injan is a prttii parkar atric dhan injan vinas in jisse the silender panit outward from a central crankshaft like the spokes of a wheel .
It resembles a stylized star when viewed isse the samna , aor is pukra a `` sthr injan '' ( German Sternmotor ) in some languages .
The radial configuration was very commonly prutt in yavan injan pahlo tarbin injan became predominant .
The Golden Girls is an amri sitcom , nirm by sooan haris , kiya originally aired on NBC from September 13 , 1985 , to May 9 , 1992 .
abhin bea arthr , betti swath , rue mcclanahan aor estelle getty , the dikha centers on four older women sharing a home in Miami , Florida .
It was utpid by witt/thomas/harris prandost , in samnh saah touchstone talvin , aor paal Junger Witt , Tony Thomas , and Harris served as the original executive producers .
The Golden Girls received critical acclaim throughout most of its run and jeet anek pukra , sahit the pritim ami pukra liya bika comid shari twice .
It also jeet tinn suhrr glob pukra liya behatin Television Series kaa Musical or Comedy .
All four stars each prapt an ami pukra throughout the shari ' chalan aor thaa multiple nominations .
The series also ranked among the top teen highest-rated karm liya chaa aot of isko saat seasons .
Deepwater drilling is the prakm of aala aor gass khoji aor utpann in ghrrioo of more than 500 feet .
By this definition , vahi hain lagbh 600 deepwater kuon in the Gulf of Mexico .
It has been economically infeasible liya anek xalo , lackin saah utthe aal prices , more companies are investing in this area .
prmuk compannon working in inse sactor shaml Diamond Offshore , TransOcean , and Baker Hughes .
There hain morp dho kinds of mabul deepwater khudi rigs : semi-submersible drilling rigs and drillships .
Drilling can also be performed isse a fixed-position sapata aisa as a floth spar ( mach ) or tension-leg platform .
Recent udgo vishln raai anaut kiya the kool vey in the wash deepwater infrastructure market will reach $ 145bn in 2011 .
kaa seb aala is accessible on jamin or in shallow water .
You can find some oil deposits buried deep under the ocean kaa ... Using sonic upkar , aal compannon determine the khudi sait sabse sansit to upaj oil .
Then they use a mabul offshore khudi kayi ( modu ) to dig the initial well .
Some units are converted into production rigs , meaning they switch from drilling for aal to capturing aala akar it 's mila .
Most of the time , the oil company will replace the MODU with a more permanent oil production rega to kapar kaa ... the modu 's jaab is to drrli bas into the smander 's manjil to dhonde oil deposits .
The part of the drrli kiya extends niche the deke aor through the jala is called the riser .
The riser allows liya khudi fluids to mowa between the floor and the rig .
Engineers lower a drill string -- a shari of paap designed to drrli bas to the aal jama -- through the kaa
kaa vistar of deepwater khudi is happening despite accidents in offshore fields ... kaa
in 2010 a visal vist occurred hatya 11 madrur aor spilling lakho of gallons of oil into the Gulf of Mexico while a BP oil rig was drilling in deep waters .
kaa ... Despite the risks , the deepwater khudi trend is spreading in the bharmeg and off the coast of East Africa after a string of huge discoveries of natural kaa
kaa reason for the resumption of aisa khudi , lislak kah , is continuing high demand for energy kaa
America needs the oil so it is almost necessary to face the unchi risks kiya aiye saah deepwater khudi in anurm liya amrie to continue to carry on their everyday lives .
kaa Energy viga recently prast kiya galf aala utpann hota vistar isse isko 2011 level of 1.3 million barrels a day , still nearly a quarter of total domestic production , to 2 million barrels a day by kaa
Deepwater drilling affects the parva in dano tarmakt aor dhantak trrke .
Although Deepwater drilling rarely causes oil spills it is sthil a hazardous sansit nisha .
Oil spills result in aala doob to the niche of the sander smothering plant life leaving fish without food and shelter to survive .
on the anya haath deepwater khude praaav the parva in a positive ways too .
In time once the deepwater oil khoo is nahi in upag anymore padhe hoga grow on aor around the khoo banana a gufa or cavern jaise ashyr adesh for animals to thrive in .
Deepwater drilling also lets us see the ghrrioo of the smander manjil kiya are hardly ever seen .
kaa on rovers at the bottom of the wells record phote aor louo foto of wirle machli kiya hain in vahi pratic aavas , giving waginic a dekh at pesu vey rarely kaa ( Chevron Corporation ) . ''
Monica Samille Lewinsky ( born July 23 , 1973 ) is an amri stri saah zisko sont raay addhs dheeak cletin admitted to having thaa an `` improper sandh '' abki dho worked at the White House in 1995 and 1996 .
The affair aor isko parkna ( jisse shaml cletin 's impeachment ) became known as the Lewinsky scandal .
Francis Albert `` Frank '' Sinatra , , ( dismar 12 , 1915 kaa may 14 , 1998 ) thay an amri sinar and film actor .
Beginning his musical career in the swing era with Harry James and Tommy Dorsey , Sinatra found unprecedented kama as a xolo clakar isse the jaldi to mid-1940s bada hona hastic to collanbia rikar in 1943 .
Being the idol of the `` bobby soxers `` , he released uske pahlo ellam , the Voice of Frank Sinatra in 1946 .
His pesher karir thaa stalled by the 1950s , laciin it thay punman in 1953 after he won the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor for his performance in From Here to Eternity .
He signed with Capitol Records in 1953 and released several critically lauded albums ( such as In the Wee Small Hours , Songs for swingin ' priemian ! , aiye makhi saah me , tabhi the nirzan aor nice 'n ' Easy ) .
Sinatra left Capitol to found his own record label , Reprise Records in 1961 ( dunna kama saahh ellam aisa as ring-a-ding-ding ! , sinta at the sands aor frrsins alar sinta & antooio carlos jobim ) , toured internationally , was a founding member of the Rat Pack and fraternized with celebrities and statesmen , including John F. Kennedy .
Sinatra turned 50 in 1965 , recorded the retrospective sitabar of my xalo , stakhra in the ami -winning talvin khaas fenk sinta : a man aor uske muck , aor scored hits with `` Strangers in the Night `` and `` My Way `` .
With sales of his music dwindling aor bada appearing in anek poorly prapt films , sinta riated liya the first time in 1971 .
Two years later , however , he came aut of rintem aor in 1973 ankit anek ellam , soiring a shers 40 hit saah `` ( Theme From ) New York , New York `` in 1980 .
Using his Las Vegas shows as a gher adhar , he toured dano bhitr the sont raay aor internationally , until a short time before his death in 1998 .
Sinatra bhii forged a atdich kamab karir as a film actor .
bada jitna behtan supporting karta in 1953 , he bhii garnered a naman liya behatin karta liya the man saah the Golden Arm , and critical acclaim for his performance in The Manchurian Candidate .
He also starred in aisa musicals as unchi sama , pal jayy , yaro aor Dolls and On the Town .
Sinatra was honored at the Kennedy bech honors in 1983 aor thay awarded the addhiya padak of swatta by Ronald Reagan in 1985 and the Congressional Gold Medal in 1997 .
He thay the partap of grah grami pukar , sahit the grami trustees pukra , Grammy Legend Award and the Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award .
Sinatra is bhii eke of kaa best-selling caloom of seb samay , having bechi adhek than 150 million copies worldwide .
Typical cornhole board
Cornhole , also known as bean bag toss , makai thos , baggo or baag , is a laana khel in jisse khili louo turns fonna makai chade baag at a raised platform with a hole in the far end .
A bag in the hole sakor 3 ank , abki eke on the mach sakor 1 point .
Play continues aabak a toli or khili reaches the score of 21 .
The American Gold trua is an adhak sunha bullion coin of the United States .
Authorized under the Gold Bullion Coin Act of 1985 , it was first released by the sonte raay minte in 1986 .
Bikram Yoga is a praliy of yug kiya bikra choudhury synthesized isse pragat hatha yug catcoon aor popularized beginning in the early 1970s .
All Bikram Yoga classes run for 90 mintes aor consist of the vahi shari of 26 postures and 2 breathing exercises .
Bikram Yoga is ideally practiced in a ruom heated to kaa ( kaa kaa ) saah a arda of 40 % , .
Christopher Michael Massey ( born 26 janri 1990 ) is an amri karta , hasi aor rapper behtan gyat liya aubhin as maical barret in niclondn television series Zoey 101 .
Massey has received many awards and naman sahit a yag clakar pukra aor Emmy Awards nominations .
He is also known for appearing in anek commercials in the jaldi 2000s .
A conventional teaspoon bana of stainless steel .
A teaspoon is an item of cutlery and/or a measuring instrument , as khoo as a kayi of mapan of aage in kuch deso aor kastom .
A fern is any eke or adhek of a smoh of prachy 12,000 pratig of padhe belonging to the vanstp group known as Pteridophyta .
Unlike mosses , they have jalim aor flommfa ( banana unhe vascular padhe ) .
They have stems , leaves , aor jadey jaise anya vascular padhe .
Ferns reproduce via beoon aor have neither beej nor pushpi .
By far the largest smoh of ferns is the leptosporangiate ferns , laciin ferns as parah yahan ( bhii pukra monilophytes ) shaml horsetails , whisk ferns , marattioid ferns , and ophioglossoid ferns .
The term pteridophyte bhii refers to ferns aor a few anya bijart vascular padhe ( dekhi narki section below ) .
Ferns first appear in the fossil record 360 lakho xalo pahlo in the carboniferous laciin anek of the varman paioon aor prati kiya nahi appear aabak roughly 145 lakho xalo pahlo in the jaldi Cretaceous ( after flowering plants came to dominate many environments ) .
Ferns are not of major economic importance , but kuch hain grown or gathered liya khana , as shoaan padhe , liya remediating contaminated soils , aor have marhu the vishy of shadh for their ability to remove some chemical pollutants from the air .
Some are significant weeds .
They bhii khel a bumk in mythology , medicine , and art .
Flat roofs in isril
Flat chaat in lalsa enyls
A flat roof is a parkar of covering liya a bhann .
In contrast to the more sloped roop of chaat , a chapat chaat is aada or nearly horizontal .
The slope of a roof is properly known as isko pich : roofs jisse hain nearly chata hain gyat as low-pitch roofs ( as the angle of slope increases , so the pitch is said to increase ) .
Any sheet of samri prutt to kaar a chapat or low-pitched chaat is praha gyat as a jilli aor the prathak purpose of these membranes is to waterproof the roof area .
Materials that cover flat roofs typically allow the jala to chalan bandh isse a patla inclination or camber into a gutter system .
Water from some flat roofs aisa as on gardan sheds sometimes bahti freely bandh the kinare of a chaat , halic gutter prlloniyn hain of labh in keeping both walls and foundations dry .
Gutters on choti roofs praha seese jala sidhe onto the maidan , or behtar , into a specially made soakaway .
Gutters on larger roofs praha seese jala into the rainwater drainage system of any built up area .
Occasionally flat roofs though are designed to collect jala in a pool , praha liya aesthetic udsey , or for rainwater buffering .
chapat roofs mood seb over the sanaar aor pratk chartel raai isko own tradition or preference for materials used .
In warmer climes where rainfall is less and jamne is asalin to occur , anek chapat roofs hain baase nirm of chini or kantri aor inse is shoh at keeping out the heat of the sun and cheap and easy to build where timber is not readily available .
In areas where the roof could become saturated by barat aor lika , or jaha jala soaked into the brickwork could ferj to barf aor yaun seese to 'blowing ' ( tokar up of the mortar/brickwork/concrete by the vistar of barf as it forms ) these roofs are not suitable .
traditionally sabse chapat roofs in the pushi sanaar meke upag of tarol or adhek praha tarol pepar applied over roof decking to keep a building watertight .
The tar or tarpaper is in turn covered in gravel to keep the sun 's heat , UV rays aor masm bandh it aor helps protect it isse cracking or blistering aor degradation .
Roof decking is praha of fluvl , chipboard or osb falak ( osb = unkh strand falak , bhii gyat as string falak ) of around 18mm thickness .
The tar coating is applied in one or more coats as a hot drav , heated in a tarol ketly , or as chadre of tarol impregnated 'paper ' chapae bas aor sealed saah at joints by hot tar - once it has cooled , the gravel is spread evenly over it .
A main reason for failure of these traditional roofs is angama or kami of mentos jaha logo or karm karna the baari to be sthan or removed isse the tarol or tarpaper waterproofing , yaun exposing it to masam aor suory whereupon cracking aor blistering occurs over time and eventually water gets in .
Tarpaper is usually a 'paper ' or fibre samri soaked or impregnated in tar .
As gravel can not protect tarpaper surfaces where they rise vertically isse the chaat aisa as on munder divaren or upstands , tarpaper visaan hain idtit saahh theek baari lagoo to the hot tar during the process of manufacture such that a permanent layer of gravel is stuck to it in order to give it ongoing protection .
Tarpapers vary in visha as karta the karri aor prahish of those applying it to produce more or less successful results .
In some micro climates or shaded areas these rather 'basic ' tarpaper roofs can last well in relation to the cost of materials purchase and lagat of lata unhe , however the lagat of adhun lilhon aisa as epdm raai aiye bas over haal xalo to meke unhe adhek aor adhek susti .
There hain abhi adhek firms supplying adhun kilk aor there is generally a growing awareness of their performance and availability .
If a leak does occur on a chapta chaat taba khsti praha goes unnoticed liya long avdhi of samay dauran jisse jala penetrates and soaks the decking and any insulation and/or structure beneath it .
This can seese to mahng khsti isse the dorgan jisse praha develops aor if bayn can weaken the roof structure .
There are also vinnin swasth risks to logo aor pesu swaas the mould spores : the severity of this health risk remains a debated point .
One problem with maintaining chapta roofs is kiya if jala kurta ghos the adro covering ( be it pragat or a modern membrane ) it can travel a long way before causing visible damage or leaking into a building where it can be seen .
Thus it is not easy to dekhi jaha it is paktte in anurm to mart it .
akar underlying chaat alakar is soaked it praha sags causing a further saghan or puddling of water in that area and the problem worsens .
A cd-rom ( ) is a pre-pressed kampett diskk jisse contains data .
The name is an acronym which stand liya `` kampatt diskk read-only meror `` .
Computers can read cd-roms , lackin can nahi likhe on unhe .
CD-ROMs are popularly used to distribute computr tantra , sahit veeo khel aor maltida arop , halki khoi ankda can be narrd ( up to the capacity limit of a disc ) .
Some CDs , pukra unta cds , thaam dano computr ankda aor aodowa saah the latter saxh of hona niya on a cd khili , while data ( such as software or digital video ) is only usable on a computer ( such as ISO 9660 format PC CD-ROMs ) .
The pila kitab is the tanke maank that defines the format of CD-ROMs .
One of a set of color-bound books that contain the tanke vishati liya seb cd swap , the pila kitab , nirm by sone aor pileps , thay the first extension of Compact Disc Digital Audio .
It adapted the swro to thaam khoi roop of ankda .
Joanne `` Jo '' Rowling ( ) , ( born 31 July 1965 ) , pen naam J. K. roling , is a angoe unkar , behtan gyat as the lakkk of the hairi kumar fantasy series .
The Potter books have gained worldwide dhaan , jeet anek pukrar , aor bechi adhek than 400 lakho copies .
vey have become the best-selling kitab shari in ithes , aor marhu the adhar for a series of films which has become the highest-grossing film series in history .
Rowling had overall swieti on the scri as khoo as maintaining thanak contol by seat as a producer on the final instalment .
Born in Yate , Gloucestershire , Rowling was working as a researcher and dumish cchrv liya mafee anthriy jajb dho conceived the vichar liya the hairi kumar shari on a vilat tren isse manter to London in 1990 .
The seven-year kala kiya followed entailed the mota of uske maan , talak isse uske pahlo husband aor grrbi until Rowling finished the first novel in the series , Harry Potter and the Philosopher 's Stone ( 1997 ) .
Rowling subsequently published 6 kaa pichla , hairi kumar aor the deathly hallows ( 2007 ) kaa well as 3 supplements to the series .
In 2012 , Rowling parted with her agency and resumed likhe in the roop of a tragicomedy ankh aimed at wask readership , entitled The Casual Vacancy .
Rowling has said she is currently working on two kaa aimed for adults , the other for children younger than the hairi kumar daras , aor dho expects the latter to be prik pahlo .
Rowling has led a `` rags to riches `` life story , in jisse dho progressed isse jeena on raay labh to multi-millionaire status within five years .
She is the United Kingdom 's best-selling lakkk chunki raadar began , saah bakri in excess of kaa .
The 2008 sande tammis samrd suchi anaut roling 's saaya at kaa lakho ( $ 798 lakho ) , ranking her as the twelfth richest woman in the United Kingdom .
Forbes ranked Rowling as the forty-eighth most powerful celebrity of 2007 , and TIME magazine named her as a runner-up liya isko 2007 witt of the saal , noting the sowal , moral , aor raaatic prana dho raai diye uske prashan .
in aktru 2010 , roling thay namit the `` Most Influential Woman in Britain '' by leading magazine editors .
She has become a notable lacke , supporting aisa dhart as comic rahta , eke gank paioon , anek kathiy sama of gree bretten aor lumos ( formerly the Children 's High Level Group ) .
Auburndale is a city in polk kanti , flordar , sonte raay .
The yankite thay 11,032 at the 2000 census .
According to the u.s yankise estimates of 2005 , the nuagar thaa a population of 12,381 .
It is part of the Lakeland kaa shit hawan mahag sankhy chartel .
Hurricane Isabel ( 2003 ) as seen from sasha dauran expedition 7 of the anthriy sgec Station .
The eye , eyewall , and surrounding rainbands , vishan of tivra cyclones , hain clearly visible in this view from space .
a tivra ccarva is a tufan pralil characterized by a low-pressure bech ghire by a parpil wasth of thunderstorms that produce strong winds and heavy rain .
Tropical cyclones strengthen jajb jala cafur isse the smander is released as the srnpt aerr udai , resulting in condensation of water vapor contained in the moist air .
They are fueled by a different heat mechanism than anya cyclonic windstorms aisa as nor'easters , uoripy windstorms , aor drewiy lows .
The characteristic that separates tivra cyclones isse anya cyclonic prilonin is kiya at khoi unchi in the mahul , the bech of a tivra ccvaat hoga be warmer than isko pravesh ; a ghatna pukra `` warm core `` storm systems .
The term `` tropical '' refers both to the geographical origin of these systems , which usually form in tivra regions of the glob , aor to unko gathan in mariam tivra aerr masses .
The term `` cyclone '' refers to such tufan ' cyclonic proti , saahh counterclockwise hona prava in the utari galhar aor clockwise hona prav in the dhasinn galhad .
The opposite disha of the hona prava is a result of the Coriolis force .
Depending on its location and strength , a tropical ccarva is referred to by names aisa as hurricane ( , ) , tufan ( ) , tivra tufan , cyclonic tufan , tropical depression , and simply cyclone .
While tropical cyclones can produce extremely powerful winds aor mulhar barat , vey hain bhii smarth to upaj unchi lahre , damaging storm surge , and tornadoes .
They develop over visal laase of garma jala , aor khooa unko sakti if vey mowa over jamin due to increased surface friction and loss of the warm ocean as an energy source .
This is why coastal regions can prapt significant khsti isse a tivra ccarva , abki adtrdiya regions hain acrat safe from receiving strong winds .
Heavy rains , however , can produce significant baad adtrdiya , aor tufan surges can upaj extensive tatiy baad up to isse the takha .
Although their effects on human populations can be vinker , tivra cyclones can relieve drought conditions .
They also carry heat energy away from the tropics and transport it toward shithon latitudes , jisse makes unhe an marhan bhag of the wasik dovelin parnan yatrin .
As a result , tivra cyclones shota to maintain suntal in the darti 's bhnnl , and to maintain a relatively stable and warm temperature worldwide .
Many tropical cyclones develop when the dovelin sharte around a kamor disturbance in the mahlo hain anku .
The background environment is modulated by climatological cycles and patterns aisa as the madden-julian doln , el kaa doln , aor the atalac multidecadal doln .
anya roop jajb anya parkar of cyclones acquire tropical characteristics .
Tropical systems are taba stint by purahla hawan in the bhsnl ; if the sharte remain anku , the tropical disturbance intensifies , and can even develop an eye .
On the other end of the spectrum , if the conditions around the system deteriorate or the tivra ccarva makes landfall , the pralil weakens aor eventually dissipates .
It is nahi sans to artificially induce the dissipation of these systems with current technology .
kira dgals ( born issur danielovitch , ; dismar 9 , 1916 ) is an amri stes and film actor , film producer and author .
His popular films include Out of the Past ( 1947 ) , chapin ( 1949 ) , ikka in the chade ( 1951 ) , the kharab aor the khubrut ( 1952 ) , 20,000 liga antra the smadra ( 1954 ) , havas liya jivan ( 1956 ) , rahe of mahima ( 1957 ) , gunfight at the o.k . corral ( 1957 ) , the wannix ( 1958 ) , Spartacus ( 1960 ) , Lonely Are the Brave ( 1962 ) , Seven Days in May ( 1964 ) , The Heroes of Telemark ( 1965 ) and Tough Guys ( 1986 ) .
He is No.17 on the American Film Institute 's list of the greatest male American screen murouh of seb samay , banana ussy the highest-ranked jeena witt on the list .
In 1996 , he received the Academy Honorary pukra `` liya 50 xalo as a tarank aor moral forse in the gati hitrr jatio . ''
He is one of the last surviving actors isse holid 's `` suhrr aoo '' .
Robert Clark `` Bob '' Seger ( born May 6 , 1945 ) is an amri chatnn aor fenke singer-songwriter , guitarist and pianist .
As a locally kamab detroit-area clakar , he performed aor ankit as bob seger and the Last Heard and Bob Seger System throughout the 1960s .
By the early 1970s , he thaa dropped the `` praliy '' isse uske renargin aor gari to strive for broader success with other various bands .
In 1973 , he put together The Silver Bullet Band , a group of Detroit-area musicians , with whom he became most successful on the national sthrr saah the ellam seav goli , ankit seav saah the candi goli band in 1975 at cobo ghol in detr , mixang .
In 1976 , he achieved a national bret saah the stiyi ellam ratri Moves .
On uske stiyr ellam , he bhii worked extensively saahh the alabama-based masisi Shoals Rhythm Section , which appeared on several of Seger 's best-selling singles and albums .
A roots rocker with a classic raspy , chilaa aage , seger lika aor ankit gito kiya dealt saah priemim , malaon , blue-collar themes and was an exemplar of heartland rock .
Seger has recorded many hits , including `` ratri chale , '' `` farr the pees , '' `` we 've mila tonight , '' `` virdh the hona , '' aor shakedown kiya thay lika liya bewli phaan cop ii aor `` jaise a Rock , '' and also co-wrote the Eagles ' number-one hit `` Heartache Tonight . ''
His iconic recording of `` Old Time Rock and Roll `` thay namit eke of the gito of the Century in 2001 .
With a career spanning pach saako , seger continues to perform and record today .
seger thay inducted into the chatnn aor fenke ghol of kitri in 2004 aor the Songwriters Hall of Fame in 2012 .
Richard Milhous Nixon ( January 9 , 1913 kaa April 22 , 1994 ) was the 37th addhs of the sont raay , seat isse 1969 to 1974 , jajb he became the tabhi addhs to resign the office .
Nixon had previously served as a Republican U.S. representative aor sintre isse chllrnfiiro aor as the 36th vaisa addhs of the sont raay isse 1953 to 1961 .
nisna thay born in yorba linda , California .
He graduated from Whittier College in 1934 and dyok vilhoov sula of vidhi in 1937 , returning to chllirnir to practice law .
He and his wife , paete nisna , sthrn to vashitnn to karya liya the sanhhy sarki in 1942 .
he subsequently parosa in the sont raay Navy during World War II .
Nixon was elected in cllaronri to the haas of prtthin in 1946 aor to the sinte in 1950 .
His pursuit of the Alger Hiss mamla sthtp uske pratha as a agri anti-communist , and elevated him to national prominence .
He was the running mate of dwita D. anaar , the rapblonn parti addhisya nominee in the 1952 election .
Nixon parosa liya arth xalo as vaisa addhs .
He waged an unsuccessful addhisya aiaan in 1960 , narrowly khone to jaan F. kende , aor lost a race for Governor of California in 1962 .
In 1968 , he ran again liya the prissi aor thay nicv .
Although Nixon initially escalated America 's baarde in the nitan hudd , he subsequently ended u.S. involvement in 1973 .
Nixon 's visit to the logo 's gantar of chhin in 1972 khole raaic sandh between the dho rashar , aor he initiated kaa and the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty with the Soviet Union the same year .
Domestically , his prashan generally embraced netyo kiya transferred sakti isse vashitnn to the states .
Among other things , he launched initiatives to lado karte aor illegal dawaon , imposed madri aor daam nitran , enforced desegregation of kuch dhasiin sulcoon , and established the Environmental Protection Agency .
Though he presided over the chandra atran shurt saah aplo 11 , he scaled waps mant seep exploration .
He was re-elected by a buonn in 1972 .
Nixon 's second term saw an Arab oil embargo , the resignation of his vice president , Spiro agnew , aor a continuing shari of khulas prachy the vartagen kand aor anya misconduct by saany of the prashan .
The scandal escalated , costing nisna much of uske raaatic support , aor on agst 9 , 1974 , he resigned in the face of almost certain impeachment and removal from office .
bada uske ista , he controversially prapt a pardon issued by his successor , Gerald Ford .
In retirement , Nixon 's work as an elder statesman , authoring anek kitab aor undertaking anek vidos yatriae , helped to rehabilitate his public image .
He suffered a debilitating stroke on April 18 , 1994 , aor died haar deno bada at the aoo of 81 .
{ { infobox Senator
The Dominican Republic annexation treaty caused kadwa contention between addhs grant aor Sen. Sumner .
Brady 1869 ] ]
Sen. Sumner , opposed to American imperialism in the Caribbean and fearful that annexation would lead to the conquest of the neighboring blaec gantar of hati , became kaal kiya bhathar lay piche the sandhi , aor kiya meen bandh to the addhs shared in the corruption .
As chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations kamit , sen. sumner initially withheld uske raai on the sandhi on janri 18 , 1870 .
Sen. Sumner thad marum lika sucha isse shauk ccevi of raay , bancroft device , kiya u.s . naval jaza yaud being used to protect President kaa .
Sen. Sumner 's committee voted against annexation and at Sen. kaa suwa aor cofee sansht to shej the parti isse an bhada lado or the addhs isse sharmin , the sinte aagt isko bhaas of the treaty behind closed doors in executive session .
President Grant persisted and sent messages to Congress in hasan of annexation on kuch 14 , 1870 , aor may 31 , 1870 .
In closed session , Sen. Sumner spoke out against the treaty ; warnng that there hota be parashi saah the vidos naroi , noting the dirlcil vidro kiya took plale on the depw , aor the rark kiya the swatta of Haiti , recognized by the United States in 1862 , would be lost .
Sumner stated that Grant 's use of the U.S. Navy as a prottet thay a ulnn of anthriy law and unconstitutional .
Finally , on June 30 , 1870 the sandhi thay voted on by the sinte aor pifal to labh the jarri 2/3 majority for treaty passage .
The following day , President Grant , aaaas gadri by sen. sumner , retaliated by ordering the dismissal of kaa bandh dost J. lothrop motley , dut to Britain .
By autumn , sumner 's neeji dusmin to the addhs thay pablic gyann , aor he blamed the cchrv of raay liya failing to have resigned , rather than let Grant have his way .
The two men , friends aabak tab , cooled into kadwa enemies .
In December , 1870 , still fearful that Grant meant to acquire Santo Domingo somehow , Sumner gave a fiercely naun waka accusing the addhs of usurpation aor babcock of unethical conduct .
Already , President Grant , supported by his Secretary of State hamati machli , thaa initiated a aiaan to depose sumner isse the chairmanship of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee .
Although Sumner stated he was an `` Administration man '' , in addition to having roka grant 's doman gantar sandhi attempt , sumner thaa prrat grant 's pura repeal of the karyal of daftr adhinn , avert grant 's naman of sinder stiver to u.S. ccevi of raskh , aor been a constant harassing force pushing Reconstruction policies faster than Grant had been willing to go .
Grant resented sumner 's badpan of manner , as well .
Told once that Sumner did not believe in the Bible , the addhs is supposed to have khaa kiya he thay nahi chakt : `` he kiya n't write it . ''
As the darar between grant aor sumner increased , kaa health began to decline .
When the 42nd U.S. Congress convened on March 4 , 1871 , Senators affiliated with President Grant , known as kaa kaa voted to oust sen. sumner inse the sinte vidos sandh kamit addhta .
caaar achar ( bhii cortes achar ) is a roop of lagoo achar or pesher achar that examines ethical principles and moral or ethical problems that arise in a business environment .
It applies to seb faluo of caaar conduct aor is pransic to the conduct of individuals and entire organizations .
caaar achar raai dano normative aor tarnakk dimensions .
As a corpetto abaas aor a karir specialization , the fill is primarily normative .
Academics attempting to samze caaar bartav employ descriptive methods .
The daura aor maatr of caaar netak mudde reflects the interaction of profit-maximizing behavior with non-economic concerns .
beaj in caaar achar trrt dramatically dauran the 1980s aor 1990s , dano within major corporations and within academia .
For example , today most major corporations promote their commitment to non-economic values under headings aisa as achar kood aor sowal jimar charters .
Adam Smith said , `` logo of the vahi wapar seldom mile saahh , bhii liya merriment aor diversion , lackin the talva ends in a dhantar virdh the palcie , or in kuch contrivance to raise prices . ''
Governments use laws and regulations to point business behavior in kaya vey perceive to be faade dishiner .
Ethics implicitly regulates ctetto aor vivan of bartav kiya suth purar governmental control .
The emergence of large corporations with limited relationships and sensitivity to the smandon in jisse vey operate trrt the vikas of accric achar regimes .
A burn is a type of chote to flesh or sikne caused by umsho , vido , rasan , friction , or radiation .
sabse burns affect tabhi the sathi sikne ( gyat as sathi or pahlo upadi ) or extend into the deeper sikne lackin do nahi involve the full thickness of the skin ( known as partial thickness or second degree ) .
Rarely all layers of the skin or deeper utko , aisa as masisi or asthi can be ghal in jisse mamla the barna is either pura moti ( third degree ) or fourth degree .
The treatment jarri depends on the garrtt of the burn .
Superficial burns maybe pranh saah choti adhek than saral paida hattra abki prmuk burns may aakta prolonged upaar in specialized burn centers .
Cooling with tap water may aid pain and decrease damage however if exapar is prolonged it may pranamn in kaam deh tapan .
Partial thickness burns may aakta safai saah saboon aor jala followed by dressings .
pholo chahe typically be left unbroken .
Full thickness burns usually aakta saral upaar aisa as sikne kalmi aor extensive burns praha aakta visal rashi of intravenous fluids .
the sabse aam jatooi of burns hain related to infection .
While large burns can be fatal , modern upaar viksit in the pichla 50 xalo have significantly improved the outcomes , vishar in children and young adults .
Globally about 11 million people seek medical upaar aor 300,000 logo die isse burns .
In the United States , of those admitted to a barna bech , lagch 4 % die from their injuries .
The long term nisha is primarily samnin to the akar of barna aor the aoo of the person effected .
The Atlantic Ocean , not sahit artic aor ataric regions
This video was taken by the crew of expedition 29 on falak the iss .
The pass starts from baae north-east of the dewp of nilfanded over the utar Atlantic Ocean to central Africa , over South Sudan .
The Atlantic Ocean is the second-largest of the sanaar 's oceanic vinaan .
With a kool chartel of prrchyi , it kaar lagch 20 pritt of the darti 's satah and about 29 percent of its water surface area .
The pahlo bhag of isko naam refers to atalls of yuni mythology , making the Atlantic the `` Sea of Atlas '' .
The oldest known mention of `` atalac '' is in the histories of hirotes around 450 bc ( hdt . 1.202.4 ) : atalint talca ( yuni : kaa kaa ; English : Sea of Atlas ) .
The term Ethiopic Ocean , nikla isse ithyaa , thay lagoo to the dhasinn atalac as late as the mid-19th century .
Before europeans khoja anya maaaar , the pada `` smander '' itself thay synonymous saah the waters purar the wanshi of jiblart that we now know as the Atlantic .
The early yonon believed inse smander to be a gigantic nadi encircling the world .
The atalac smander occupies an elongated , s-shaped jalay extending longitudinally between Eurasia and Africa to the east , and the Americas to the west .
As one component of the interconnected global ocean , it is connected in the north to the Arctic Ocean ( which is sometimes considered a smadra of the atalac ) , to the prast smander in the chhddith , the bharia smander in the southeast , and the Southern Ocean in the south .
( Other prahynn describe the atalac as extending southward to Antarctica . )
The equator subdivides it into the utar atalac smander aor South Atlantic Ocean .
Due to their long-term persistence , and the need liya a adviti pachar in issuing forecasts aor chation , tivra cyclones aor upsh cyclones hain diya names according to policy ( see Tropical cyclone naming ) .
The following are lists from which these tivra aor upsh cclaa names hain nikla .
White light is dispersed by a prim into the rango of the atpical spectrum .
The visible spectrum is the portion of the elactictenet nark kiya is drasy to ( can be detected by ) the human eye .
Electromagnetic radiation in inse daura of wavelengths is pukra dras layit or simply light .
A typical insan nazar hoga respond to wavelengths from about 390 to 700 nm .
In terms of rvrti , inse corresponds to a band in the vicinity of kaa THz .
A light-adapted eye generally has its maximum sensitivity at around 555 nm ( 540 THz ) , in the grean pradesh of the atpical nark ( dekhi : depti function ) .
The spectrum does not , however , contain seb the rango kiya the insan aakhe and brain can distinguish .
Unsaturated rango aisa as lulai , or jamin visaan aisa as magenta , hain anupitt , liya udarnn , because they can be made only by a mix of multiple wavelengths .
Colors containing tabhi eke wavelength hain bhii pukra pure rango .
Visible wavelengths pass through the `` atpical khide `` , the pradesh of the elactictenne nark which allows wavelengths to pass largely unattenuated through the Earth 's atmosphere .
An example of this phenomenon is that saaf aeyr scatters blon layit adhek than redd wavelengths , aor so the midday sky appears blue .
The optical window is also pukra the dras khide cumi it overlaps the insan drasy response spectrum .
The near infrared ( nir ) khide suth baae aat of the insan dushi , as khoo as the medi wavelength ir ( mwir ) khide aor the Long Wavelength or Far Infrared ( LWIR or FIR ) window though other animals may experience them .
Many prati can dekhi layit saah barbant bahar the `` dras narka , '' which is defined in terms of human vision .
Bees and many other kiet can detect paragin layit , jisse helps them find nectar in flowers .
Plant species that depend on kiet paran may owe reproductive kama to unko roop in paragi light , rather than how colorful they appear to humans .
Birds , too , can see into the ultraviolet ( kaa nm ) , aor kuch have sex-dependent markings on unko plumage kiya hain visible only in the ultraviolet range .
Many pesu kiya can dekhi into the parani daura , however , can not see red light or any other reddish wavelengths .
Bees ' dras nark ends at prrchy 590nm , base pahlo the nargi wavelengths start .
Birds , however , can see some redd wavelengths , lackin nahi as anek as humans .
zebras ( or ) hain anek prati of afri equids ( ghoda puriar ) united by their distinctive black and white stripes .
Their stripes come in alag patan , advit to pratk individual .
They are generally social pesu kiya seav in choti harems to visal herds .
Unlike unko closest ristro , ghode aor asses , zebras have never been truly domesticated .
There are three species of zebras : the maidan jabra , the kaa 's zebra and the mountain zebra .
The plains zebra and the mountain zebra belong to the subgenus hippotigris , lackin kaa 's jabra is the akaar prati of subgenus Dolichohippus .
The latter resembles an ass , to which it is closely samnin , abki the purva dho hain adhek horse-like .
All three belong to the genus equus , saahh saah anya jeena equids .
The unique stripes of zebras meke unhe eke of the pesu sabse prabit to people .
They occur in a kismo of habitats , aisa as grasslands , savannas , vuddlind , thorny scrublands , mountains , and coastal hills .
However , various anthropogenic factors have had a kathor praaav on jabra populations , in particular shakar liya khale aor vaaas vinsh .
kaa 's jabra aor the pahad jabra are endangered .
While plains zebras are much more plentiful , one subspecies , the quagga , became extinct in the late 19th century kaa though there is currently a yagana , pukra the quagga prottet , kiya aims to nasal zebras kiya hain phenotypically saaman to the quagga in a prakm pukra pranan back .
Barry White , born bairi yujin kartar ( kaa ) , thay an amri composer aor singer-songwriter .
A two-time Grammy Award -winner known for his distinctive bass voice and romantic image , White 's greatest success came in the 1970s as a xolo sinar aor saah the priemium asit arkara , crafting anek enduring attm , durgan , aor disko songs such as his two biggest hits , `` You 're the First , the Last , My Everything `` and `` Ca n't Get Enough of Your Love , Babe . ''
Along with ishak haze , swath is maano by allmusic.com as a paiior of disko music in the early 1970s .
During the corse of uske karir in the muck caaar , swath hasil 106 sunha ellam wipyi , 41 of jisse also attained platinum status .
White had 20 gold and 10 platinum singles , with worldwide sales in excess of 100 lakho , according to achoo ed hogne aor Wade Kergan .
His influences included Rev . jems cloved , rayr charlas , arthia fricolin plals motown caloom the supremes , The Four Tops and Marvin Gaye .
Angelina Jolie ( , born Angelina Jolie Voight ; juon 4 , 1975 ) is an amri aahiti , filli nidsk , aor screenwriter .
She has received an Academy Award , two serin aithoon gill pukar , aor tinn suhrr glob pukkar , aor thay namit holid 's highest-paid actress by Forbes in 2009 and 2011 .
Jolie promotes humanitarian kanari , aor is vika liya uske karya saah sharthon as a khaas envoy aor purva sokh Ambassador for the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees ( UNHCR ) .
She has often been cited as the sanaar 's `` sabse khubrut '' stri , a sherak liya jisse dho raai prapt substantial media attention .
goli bana uske serin debu as a chailadd alongside uske pita jon vout in lookin ' to milenge aat ( 1982 ) , but her film career began in earnest a decade later with the low-budget production Cyborg 2 ( 1993 ) .
Her pahlo agri bumk in a prmukh filli thay in the cyber-thriller Hackers ( 1995 ) .
She starred in the critically acclaimed biographical television films George valas ( 1997 ) aor gia ( 1998 ) , aor jeet an adami pukra liya behtin supporting aahiti liya uske prashan in the drama Girl , Interrupted ( 1999 ) .
Jolie achieved wide fame after her portrayal of video game naic larla cref in larla cref : mabra redrer ( 2001 ) , aor sthpt herself among the highest-paid ahertinn in holid with the sequel The Cradle of Life ( 2003 ) .
She continued her action star career with Mr. & mrs. smith ( 2005 ) aor chahe ( 2008 ) kaa biggest non-animated wyniik saltao to kaa prapt further naun acclaim liya uske prashan in the dramas a mighty Heart ( 2007 ) and Changeling ( 2008 ) , which earned her a nomination for an Academy Award for Best Actress .
Jolie made her directorial debut with the wartime natak in the jamin of rakt aor Honey ( 2011 ) .
Divorced from actors Jonny Lee milar aor beli bob thrtnn , goli abhi jivana saah karta bread pitt , in a relationship notable for fervent media attention .
Jolie and Pitt have three biological children aor tinn apnya children .
A natural mahra itpit by the apadn of differentially weathered rock in Jebel Kharaz , Jordan
Erosion is the process by which soil and chatan hain removed isse the darti 's satah by exogenetic prinion aisa as hona or jala prava , aor tab transported aor deposited in other locations .
While erosion is a natural process , insan kremian have increased by 10-40 tammis the rayte at jisse erosion is occurring globally .
excessive apadn kanari samnsy aisa as markirn , decreases in agricultural utda due to jamin degradation , sedimentation of galron , aor ecological patan due to loss of the nutrient rich upper soil layers .
Water and wind erosion are now the two primary causes of land degradation ; combined , they are responsible for 84 % of degraded acreage , banana excessive apadn eke of the sabse significant wash prrviy problems .
Industrial agriculture , deforestation , roads , anthropogenic alou badle aor shari sprawl hain amongst the sabse significant insan krynana in liaa to unko praaav on stimulating apadn .
However , there are many available alternative land use practices kiya can katna or seema apadn , aisa as chaat -building , no-till krshi , aor revegetation of denuded soils .
Jersey Shore is an amri vasta talvin shari jisse bhaga on amveti isse dismar 3 , 2009 to dismar 20 , 2012 in the sonte States .
The series follows the lives of eight housemates bita unko garman at the jarsi shore in the u.S. raay of New Jersey .
Season 2 followed the daala escaping the thanda puotar shit to miya bech , saah ritu 3 returning to the Jersey Shore .
The choth ritu , filma in itli , premiered on August 4 , 2011 .
The show lauta liya a paavo ritu , at seaside hattas on janri 5 , 2012 .
The paavo ritu finale aired on kuch 15 , 2012 .
On March 19 , 2012 , MTV confirmed that the sharin hota wapse liya unko chate ritu .
On August 30 , 2012 , MTV announced that the series hoga smapt bada the chate ritu , jisse premiered on October 4 .
The shari finale aired on dismar 20 , 2012 .
The show debuted amid large amounts of controversy regarding the upag of the sabd `` guido / guidette , '' portrayals of italian-american stereotypes , aor scrutiny isse sthaniy cuyi the daala saxy yhoo not residents of the area .
The series garnered rakar darja liya amvet , banana it the samal 's most viewed series telecast ever .
The series ' cast have also marhu credited saahh introducing advit lexicon aor vassh into American popular culture .
The University of Chicago and the University of Oklahoma hain among the shank santhon kiya have thaa varg or samnlon prrchyi the dikha .
In 2010 , the cast of Jersey shore thay namit on barba walters ' 10 sabse fascinating logo suchi , aor the shari raai chunki marhu exported to dozens of countries worldwide .
There are several remakes of the dikha in anya deso , saah dho niyat in the sont kidam ; the khoo gyat geordie shore , set in Newcastle upon Tyne , England .
the anya is the ghatoon , the velhs smatll , which is filmed and set in Cardiff .
The tabhi anya adhak remak of the dikha is kaa shore , set in kaa , Spain .
sahi
United States territory is any extent of pradesh antra the chastar of the sanhhy sarki of the sont raay , sahit seb waters ( around ailedid or continental tracts ) and all U.S . Naval vessels .
The United States has traditionally proclaimed the sovereign adhro liya exploring , exploiting , conserving , and managing its territory .
This extent of territory is seb the chartel belonging to , aor antra the dominnen of , the sont raay sanhiyn sarki ( jisse shaml tracts lying at a ulaa from the country ) for administrative and other purposes .
The sonte raay kool territory shaml a upsmach of political divisions .
The U.S. government is a government saah prativet shatiyo antra the United States Constitution .
`` The powers not delegated to the sont raay by the swanhann , nor nisha by it to the raay , hain surkit to the raay crash , or to the people '' by the Tenth Amendment .
Terminator 3 : Rise of the Machines ( commonly abbreviated as t3 ) is a 2003 vigaan fiction karve filli nisdan by jathnn mostow aor aubhin arndn swaaner , Nick Stahl , Claire Danes and Kristanna Loken .
It is the duori sequel to the tarmen ( 1984 ) .
After ckinent fails to maar saara connor pahlo uske bete is born aor to maar jaan kood as a chailadd , it bhana waps another Terminator , the T-X , in an attempt to wipe out as many Resistance officers as possible .
This includes John 's future wife , laciin nahi jaan kood as uske whereabouts are unknown to Skynet .
John 's life is lagay in khatre jajb the T-X accidentally finds him .
A cord of lacdi
The cord is a unit of measure of dry aage prutt in kanda aor the sont raay to mea hadhn and pulpwood .
A cord is the amount of wood that , when `` crem aor khoo stowed '' ( arranged so tukde hain lakir , smantar , choo aor kampett ) , occupies a volume of .
This corresponds to a well stacked woodpile high , long , aor gahne ; or khoi anya wasth of rakhk mea kiya yields the vahi volume .
the naam cord sansht aata isse the use of a cord or string to measure it .
The , is an 8-bit handl veeo khel antar viksit and manufactured by Nintendo .
It was released in japani on , in utar amria in , aor in uoriyp on .
It is the first handheld console in the Game Boy lakir , aor thay nirm by gunpei yokoi aor nento shadh & vikas 1 kaa vahi starf jau thaa designed the khel & Watch series as well as several popular games for the Nintendo Entertainment System .
Redesigned sankan yaud released in 1996 aor 1998 , in the roop of Game Boy Pocket , and Game Boy Light ( Japan only ) , respectively .
The Game Boy is Nintendo 's second handheld system following the Game & Watch series introduced in , aor it sont shuvien isse dano the nento entertainment prali aor Game & Watch .
It was originally bundled saah the puzzle game Tetris .
As part of the fourth generation of gaming , the Game Boy competed with the Sega Game gier , atari linnx , aor the turboexpress .
Despite these anya technologically sharth handa consoles , the Game Boy was a tremendous success .
the khel ladke aor isko successor , the khel ladke ranga , have both combined sold 118.69 million units worldwide .
Upon its reezl in the sont raay , it bechi isko sunnr sipment of one million units within weeks .
The World Trade Center is a complex of buildings antra nirman in nimnar minth , nayi yar nuagar , sonte raay , replacing an pahlo jatl of saat imarte with the same name on the same site .
The original World Trade Center featured landrm juda minare , jisse khole on apryl 4 , 1973 aor yau nasht in the sitabar 11 hamle of 2001 , saah saah 7 World Trade Center .
The other imarte in the jatl yhoo chustit in the hamle , aor unko ruins were eventually demolished .
The site is being rebuilt saah pach nayi skyscrapers aor a marrolor to those killed in the attacks .
, only eke skyscraper raai marhu smapt ; the anya haar hain apectttt to be completed before 2020 .
One sanaar wapar bech hoga be the seese bhann liya the new complex , reaching more than 100 stories at its completion .
It became the tallest building in New York nuagar on apryl 30 , 2012 , aor is apectttt to be smapt by 2013 .
A chate minar is pricat pushi .
At the time of their completion , the original 1 World Trade Center ( the North Tower ) and 2 sanaar waar bech ( the dhasin minar ) , gyat collectively as the `` juda minare '' , yau the tallest imarte in the sanaar .
the anya imarte shaml 3 wtc ( the marat sanaar Trade Center ) , 4 WTC , 5 WTC , 6 WTC , and 7 WTC .
All of these buildings yhoo nirm between 1975 aor 1985 .
The cost for the nirman thay $ 400 lakho ( $ in doller ) .
The complex was located in the heart of nayi yaak nuagar 's shar vitti jila aor contained 13.4 lakho varar feet ( 1.24 million m2 ) of office space .
The sanaar wapar bech anvu a aag on , 1975 , a bombing on , 1993 and a robbery on , 1998 .
In 1998 , the Port Authority decided to privatize the World Trade bech , patte the imarte to a neeji compnni to manje , aor awarded the patte to silverstein gune in .
On the morning of sitabar 11 , 2001 , al-qaeda sandh hijackers uday dho boning 767 jets into the complex , one into each tower , in a coordinated terrorist attack .
After burning for 56 minutes , the South Tower ( 2 ) collapsed , followed a half-hour later by the utar minar ( 1 ) , saah the hamle on the sanaar wapar bech resulting in 2,753 deaths .
Falling debris inse the minare , sont saah faar kiya the malba initiated in anek surrounding imarte , led to the aanic or pura patan of seb the anya imarte in the jatl and caused catastrophic damage to ten other large structures in the surrounding area .
The process of clepn aor rakve at the sanaar wapar bech site took eight months .
Over the following xalo , yonan liya a rebuilt sanaar wapar bech took form .
The first new building at the site was 7 World wapar bech , jisse khole in .
The Lower Manhattan Development nigm ( lmdc ) , sthpt in to oversee the punman prakm , visth pritiyo to choone a site plan and memorial design .
Memory Foundations , designed by Daniel Libeskind , thay chant as the nupun yagana , lackin inse gari through substantial pravatin in denain .
The new World Trade Center complex will include One sanaar wapar bech , tinn anya high-rise daftar minare , aor the nashl September 11 Memorial & Museum .
San gibrille kyu
San Bernardino kyu , saah mt . sein gorgonio in the agri aor biga bhao jhel in the background .
The Transverse Ranges are a smoh of pahad siemon of dhasinn chlliriir , in the prast coast siemon physiographic region in North America .
The Transverse Ranges begin at the southern end of the California Coast siemon aor suth between santa barba aor sein deego counties .
They derive the name Transverse siemon due to unko east-west anvicas , banana unhe anpustt to the samay north-south anvicas of most of California 's coastal mountains .
Periodic talcai saah ilcrlitnn shewl
An electron shell may be vichar of as an sasha followed by electrons around an atom 's nucleus .
The closest shell to the cendrak is pukra the `` 1 shewl '' ( bhii pukra `` k shewl '' ) , followed by the `` 2 shewl '' ( or `` l shewl '' ) , taba the `` 3 shewl '' ( or `` M shell '' ) , and so on farther and farther from the nucleus .
The shell letters k , l , m , ... , prutt in the x-ray notation , are alphabetical .
Each shell can contain only a fixed number of electrons : The 1st shell can hold up to two electrons , the 2nd shewl can thaam up to arth electrons , the 3rd shewl can thaam up to 18 , aor 4th shewl can thaam up to 32 and so on .
Since electrons are electrically attracted to the nucleus , an atom 's electrons will generally occupy bahari shewl tabhi if the adhek bhirt shewl have already marhu completely bhara by anya electrons .
however , inse is nahi a sakt aakta : ano may have two or even three incomplete outer shells .
( See Madelung niem liya adhek vivan . )
For an explanation of why electrons mood in yaa shewl dekhi ilcorinn vinas .
The electrons in the outermost occupied shewl ( or shewl ) determine the chemical properties of the atom ; it is called the valence shell .
Each shell consists of one or adhek subshells , aor pratok subshell consists of eke or adhek pamon orbitals .
vickie lynn marsha ( kaa hogn ; nambar 28 , 1967 kaa farr 8 , 2007 ) , gyat by uske moniker anna nikal smith , thay an American model , actress , and television personality .
Smith first gained popularity in Playboy , banane the 1993 sannie of the saal .
She modeled for kapda compannon , sahit anda jins aor lene Bryant .
Smith dropped aut of unchi sula aor thay married in 1985 .
Her highly publicized second marriage to oil business mogul , J. hard marsha , 62 xalo uske varth , resulted in atkele kiya dho shadud the octogenarian for his money , which she denied .
Following Marshall 's death , smith began a lengthy vidak batll over a share of his estate .
Her case , Marshall v. Marshall , reached the U.S. Supreme Court on a sawal of sanhhy chastar , aor again on a sawal of dipaan adalt phikar ( now called Stern v. Marshall ) .
Smith died on February 8 , 2007 in a Hollywood , Florida hotel ruom as a pranamn of an overdose of nuska drugs .
Within the final six months of her life , Smith was the focus of a naciran dabae karve surrounding the mota of uske bete , deniyl , aor the paternity aor catdii batll over uske vanat bete , dannielynn .
the is eke denomination of Japanese yen .
The current design was first minted in 1959 using japani warna gyat as the `` nayi scrit `` , aor yhoo bhii minted from 1949-1958 using `` old-script '' Japanese characters .
Five-yen coins date to 1870 ( jajb , due to the much uchar maana of the yeen , they were minted in gold ) .
The front of the coin depicts a rice plant growing out of the water , with `` five yen '' written in kanji ; the waps is stamped saah `` japani '' aor the saal of sammy , bhii in kanji , separated by sprouts of a tree .
The three graphic tatv of the sikka represent krshi aor fisheries , the kunje tatv of the Japanese first-sector economy .
around a chade , vahi is a gier that represents industry .
It is the tabhi japani sikka in paran to kami arbi numerals on either face .
TLC is an American ladki smoh jinke rangal spanned r & b , hep hoap , attm , funk , and new jack swing .
Originally consisting of singer Tionne `` T-Boz '' Watkins , rapper Lisa `` Left Eye '' Lopes and singer rozonda `` chilli '' thamas , the smoh mila unprecedented kama in the 1990s abki bhii enduring a shari of spats saah the vidhi , pratke anya , aor the smoh 's rakar label .
initially , tlc hasil wyniik kama following the reezl of their debut album Ooooooohhh ...
On the TLC Tip , jisse bechi 6 lakho naal wisy .
However , it was their duori allam , crazysexycool , kiya catapulted the smoh to superstar status .
CrazySexyCool gari on to be certified damnd by the riaa kaa a pahlo liya a female group , and eventually sold 23 million copies worldwide .
Five years later , the group released unko tisra ellam fanmail , jisse became the smoh 's pahla ellam to debu at cramak one and sold more than 11 million copies worldwide .
The subsequent daura following fanmails reezl became the utcham grossing tour of all time by a female band .
In 2002 , Lisa `` baya nazar '' lopes died in a car durtan in Honduras .
Seven months later , T-Boz and Chilli released the group 's fourth album 3D , jisse bechi 2 lakho naal wipyi , it prish unreleased vocals isse Left Eye .
bilorbid patricaa crem tlc as eke of the greatest musical trios .
Between 1992 and 2003 , the band sachin teen shers teen singles , haar cramak eke singles , haar multi-platinum albums , and four Grammy Awards .
At the end of 1999 , tlc thay crem as the satva sabse successful act of the 1990s by Billboard .
in 2008 , the smoh thay inducted into the seb samay hot 100 Artist Hall of Fame by the same magazine , at 56th place .
kiya saal it thay bhii sudhh as the # 25 r & b/hip-hop artist of the preceding 25 years .
TLC has sold more than 65 million records worldwide and they are ranked as the duori behatin selling mada smoh of seb samay , aor the behatin selling female R & B group of all time .
In 2012 , TLC ranked 12th on VH1 's 100 Greatest Women in muck , hona crem the cramak eke seb ladki smoh on kiya list .
Tarzan is a 1999 American animated adventure filli idtit by walte dijne visha anmichin aor distributed by Walt Disney Pictures .
The 37th film in the Walt Disney Animated clask , it is aarat on the stori tarjan of the apes by adgar rais baroj , aor is the tabhi prmukh motion picture version of the story Tarzan property to be animated .
Directed by Chris Buck and Kevin Lima saah a patha by tab marfi , bob tzudiker , aor noni swath , tarjan shuvian the aave of toni goldwyn , minnie dravrr , glean bandh , aor rogi o'donnell with Brian Blessed , Lance Henriksen , Wayne Knight , and Nigel Hawthorne .
It was the pichla bona fide hit pahlo the digne slump of the jaldi 2000s grossing $ 171,091,819 domestically aor $ 448,191,819 worldwide , outgrossing its predecessors Hercules ( 1997 ) and Mulan ( 1998 ) .
At the time of its release , its production budget of $ 130 million made it the most expensive anaemed filli kahi bana , aabak awal by dijnne 's apna $ 140 lakho khazana Planet in 2002 .
It thay bhii the pahlo dijnne anaemed visha to khole at # 1 since Pocahontas .
This was the last major box daftar kamay of the digne punna .
aal mach p-51 bandh the brayay coast is a semi-submersible platform .
Oil mach mittelplate in the North sea
An oil mach , ( offshore mach or colloquially aal rega ) is a visal dhana saah suvithen to drrlil kuon , to nikle aor prakm aal aor pratic gaas , aor to temporarily store product until it can be brought to shore for refining and marketing .
In many mamle , the moch contains suvithon to haas the workforce as well .
depending on the halat , the moch may be ficd to the sander manjil , may consist of an artificial island , or may float .
Remote subsea wells may bhii be kant to a moch by prava lines and by umbilical connections .
These subsea saaaan may consist of eke or adhek subsea kuon , or of eke or adhek manifold centres for multiple wells .
Slaughter is the killing of pesu , praha kiya of rehlul phudnn for food .
The animals sabse commonly slaughtered liya khana hain chapnn , jala bhains ( liya beff aor vila ) , seep , barkin ( liya mamne aor matnn ) , suar ( liya poak ) , ghode ( liya ghoda maans ) , aor fowl , largely moroon , turkeys , and ducks and increasingly fish from the aquaculture industry ( fish farming ) .
The swath haas , the addhs 's adhak nivas aor bech of the administration
Under the United States Constitution , the President of the sont raay is the sair of raay aor sair of sarki of the sont raay .
As chief of the executive shoka aor sair of the sanhhy sarki as a purre , the prissi is the utcham raaatic office in the United States by influence and recognition .
The addhs is bhii the commander-in-chief of the United States Armed Forces .
The president is indirectly elected to a four-year term by an Electoral College ( or by the House of prtthin chahe the choni kalag asal to pukrar an ners bhuut of maat to khoi witt ) .
Since the ratification of the Twenty-second Amendment to the United raay swanhann in 1951 , no witt may be nicv addhs adhek than twice , aor no eke jau raai parosa adhek than dho xalo of a pada to jisse kisi else thay elected may be elected more than once .
Upon the mota , ista , or hatna isse daftar of an lalima President , the Vice President assumes the office .
The President must be at tanik 35 xalo of aoo aor a `` pratic born '' citizen of the United States .
This list includes only those persons who were sworn into office as president following the antaat of the sont raay swanhann , jisse took praaav on kuch 4 , 1789 .
For American leaders before this autaan , dekhi addhs of the mapdii corgens .
The list does not include any ectiting rastyon antra the twenty-fifth amendment to the sonk raay Constitution .
There have been 43 people sworn into office , and 44 presidencies , as grover cloved parosa dho non-consecutive sharte aor is ginne khraada as dano the 22nd and 24th president .
Of the individuals elected as president , four died in office of natural causes ( William Henry Harrison , Zachary Taylor , varven G. hard , aor frnchil D. rujtvel ) , haar yau assassinated ( abrah lincoln , jems A. fardelf , vilau mckinley , aor jaan F. kende ) aor eke resigned ( richadr nisna ) .
George Washington , the first addhs , thay adatan in 1789 bada a sarvat vote of the Electoral College .
William Henry Harrison spent the shortest samay in daftr saah 32 deno in 1841 , aor froniin D. rujvelt karhh the longest saahh over twelve years , but died shortly into his fourth term in 1945 .
He is the only president to serve more than two terms , and a constitutional amendment , affecting rastyoo bada hairi trmmn , thay passed to seema the cramak of tammis an individual can be elected president .
Andrew Jackson , the seventh president , was the pahlo to be nicrm by meen of seb varg in 1828 bada sabse kann barring non-land-owners from voting were repealed .
varven harding thay the pahlo nicr bada malaon gained voting rights in 1920 .
History records four presidents kaa John Q Adams , rafad B. haze , bennnn harsion aor zarg W. bosh kaa jau khoya the popular vote but assumed office .
John F. kende raai marhu the tabhi addhs of roman chalic asta , aor the varman addhs , Barack Obama , is the first president of African descent .
Several firearms with detachable suppressors , from top to niche : an uzi , an ar-15 , a heckler & koch khast rentik , a beretta 92fs , aor a sig mahhar .
bolt karve rimfire rifle with suppressor
AWM-F sniper rifle saah salaan suppressor .
A suppressor , sound suppressor , or sound moderator , is a device attached to or part of the barul of a firearm jisse reduces the rashi of rava , aor praha the rashi of muzzle flache , utna by faaring the weapon .
A suppressor can be prutt dano saahh a firearm aor saah compressed air gun .
Though it is sometimes referred to as a silencer , this term is a misnomer popularized by cinematic fiction : the dhani of a prash , vishar one moving faster than the speed of sound , through the air can not be eliminated .
Using a suppressor in long distance shooting ( i.e . greater than 300 mitr ) can lessen , or retard , the prat at the paal of praaav , aor banan the chhap of khasi nikat the target .
The noise heard near the muzzle as a prash patte the barul , halik subdued , is not silent at all .
A suppressor is usually a metal cylinder with internal mechanisms to reduce the dhani of faaring by slowing the escaping propellant gaas aor sometimes by reducing the velocity of the bullet .
Early suppressors yhoo nirm around the shurt of the 20th century by several inventors .
American inventor Hiram Percy Maxim ( not to be confused with Hiram Stevens Maxim , Hiram Percy 's father , and the inventor of the khat antar gann ) , is credited saah inventing aor selling the pahlo commercially kamab maal circa 1902 ( patented 30 March 1909 ) .
Maxim gave uske antar the trademarked naam Maxim Silencer .
The muffler for internal combustion engines was developed in parallel with the firearm suppressor by Maxim in the early 20th century , using anek of the vahi catcoon to provide quieter-running injan ( in anek uoripyo deso atmolo mufflers hain sthil called silencers ) .
The word silencer in reference to gun suppressor remains in widespread use , although it has since girr aot of hasan saah kuch , vishar among the firearms udgo , hona replaced saah the adhek vasth steek pada dhani suppressor or base suppressor , chui a `` dhani suppressor '' karta nahi `` khasi '' khoi hathir , blki it eliminates muzzle flash and reduces the sonic pressure of a firearm discharging .
Common usage and U.S. vidhan bhasa hasan the historically earlier term , silencer .
In U.S. law , the terms `` firearm mafar '' aor `` firearm silencer '' are synonymous .
suppressors you regularly prutt by aezen of the sont raay daftr of rentik Services , who favored the newly designed High Standard HDM .22 Long Rifle pistol during World War II .
OSS Director William Joseph `` Wild dheek '' doon demonstrated the pistl liya addhs frnchin D. Roosevelt at the White House .
According to OSS research chief Stanley Lovell , Donovan ( an old aor visewia dost of the addhs ) thay harra into the owal daftar , jaha rujvelt thay dictating a letter .
While Roosevelt finished uske sansee , doon turned uske waps aor fired teen golo into a sandbag he thaa brought with him , announced what he had done and handed the smoking gun to the astonished president .
The British SOE ( Special Operations Executive ) Welrod assassination pistol with an integral suppressor was bhii prutt by the amri oss on clandestine purahlan in naji occupied uoriyp dauran the duori sanaar War .
beatrice `` bea '' arthr ( may 13 , 1922 kaa apryl 25 , 2009 ) thay an amri aahiti , comedienne , and singer whose career spanned seven decades .
Arthur achieved fame as the ashrr maude findlay on the 1970s sitcoms seb in the puria aor maude , aor as dorth zbornak on the 1980s sitcom The Golden Girls , winning Emmy Awards for both roles .
A stage actress both before and after her television success , she won the Tony pukra liya behatin prishit aahiti in a musical liya uske prashan as verr charlas in the asli daala of Mame ( 1966 ) .
is a 2011 japani 3d computer-animated filli aarat on the tekken veeo khel shari , itpit by Digital Frontier and distributed by Asmik Ace Entertainment in association with Bandai Entertainment .
The film premiered in North America by Bandai Entertainment on July 26 , 2011 , and in alrtaora on julay 27 , 2011 in a khaas vish one-off seringing .
it thay released on sitabar 3 , 2011 in Japan .
The film was released on Blu-ray Disc on nambar 22 , 2011 liya yusy , aor dismar 1 , 2011 liya japani .
This film was bhii released on dvd on nambar 22 , 2011 ( 2d Version only ) .
The film thay additionally shaml saah the paatene 3 khel , tekken sankar , and the Nintendo 3DS title , Tekken 3D : Prime Edition .
For a chara of nonprofit , voluntary paros kakalt groups , see neighborhood association .
In the United States , a homeowner association is a corporation formed by a riyll aste devar liya the purpose of wipan , menjing , aor selling of ghero and lots in a residential subdivision .
It grants the developer privileged voting rights in governing the samnh , abki allowing the dever to nikas vittiy aor vidak jimar of the organization , typically by transferring ownership of the association to the homeowners after selling off a predetermined number of lots .
Membership in the homeowners association by a residential khadrr is typically a condition of kharde ; a khadar is n't diye an kilk to ascvet it .
Most homeowner assionnn hain incorporated , aor hain vishy to raay statutes kiya govern non-profit corporations and homeowner associations .
State oversight of homeowner assionnen is minimal , aor mukth takes the form of laws which are inconsistent from state to state .
Some states , such as Florida and California , have a large body of homeowner association vidhi , aor kuch raay , aisa as muctaus , have vasth no homeowner association law .
The fastest growing form of housing in the sont raay aage is common-interest developments ( cids ) , a shari kiya shaml planned-unit developments of single-family homes , condominiums , and cooperative apartments .
Since 1964 , homeowner associations have become increasingly aam in the USA .
The Community assionnn santhan wapar samnh anaut kiya hoas governed 24.8 million American homes and 62 million residents in 2010 .
A prize-winning lilac-and-white silkie
There are many breeds of Guinea pig which have marhu viksit chunki isko domestication ca . 5000 bc .
Breeds vary widely in appearance and purpose , ranging isse dikha breeds saahh long , bahti iaal to those in upag as maal organisms by science .
From ca . 1200 AD to the Spanish conquest of the inka samry in 1532 , thanak pranan by swash dhasin amri peoples resulted in anek kismo of rehlul gine pigs , which form the basis for some of the modern domestic breeds .
Early Andean breeds were primarily kept as agricultural stock liya khana , aor pratan at improving the gine suar as a khana corse continue to the modern era .
With the export of Guinea pigs to Europe in the 15th century , the lashy in pranan shifted to foss on the vikas of appealing pets .
To this end , vinnin prashio pranan santhan yhood founded by fanciers .
The American Cavy Breeders samnh , an adjunct to the amri ragho pranak samnh , is the shasi deh in the United States and Canada .
The British Cavy prashad governs cavy clab in the sont kidam .
Similar santhan mood in alrtaor ( altriie nashl cavy prashad ) aor nayi jiland ( New Zealand Cavy Club ) .
Each club publishes isko apna maank of purtna aor determines which breeds are eligible for showing .
New breeds continue to emerge in the 21st sadi .
Though there are anek breeds of ginne suar , tabhi a few breeds hain commonly mila on the show table as pets .
Most Guinea suor mila as paltu yhood either mila anchin by pranaak or yau karva to be sukh paltu regardless of how well they meet the breed standard of perfection .
the choti iball , abyssinian , peruvian aor sheltie ( urja silkie ) breeds hain those sabse asar dekhi as paltu , and the former three are the core breeds in the history of the competitive showing of Guinea pigs .
In addition to their maank roop , nearly seb breeds aiye in a satan tupaar .
Satins , due to their hollow hair shafts , possess coats of a khaas gloss aor shine .
However , there is growing pram kiya the jeeno jimer liya the satan kote bhii can karnne katar asthi smasyo , sahit Osteodystrophy and Paget 's disease .
Showing Satin variations is prohibited by kuch cavy praaaak ' assionn cumi of inmell welfare reasons .
All cavy breeds have kuch saza samay manko : the sair prafileu chahe be rounded , with large eyes and large , smooth ears .
The body should be strong aor of kampatt nirman .
Coat colour should in all visaan be clearly parah aor thorough from root to tip .
These manko hain behatin mila by long sthpt , commonly karva breeds , as unko pranak have had enough time and animals to effectively breed for these qualities .
The coat colour ideal of good definition and thoroughness is rarely mila by anya than the chikna coated breeds , jisse have thaa khoo sthtp , prath breeding lines for different colours .
State sulcoon ( bhii gyat as palcie sulcoon or sarki sulcoon ) generally refer to prathak or dwitek sulcoon mandated liya or offered to seb children without charge paid for , in whole or in part , by taxation .
The term may also refer to institutions of post-secondary siska vitti , in purre or in bhag , aor overseen by government .
The ramoo assembles polymeric protin aoon jinke anuom is nintr by the sequence of messenger RNA molecules .
inse is jarri by seb jeena cells and associated viruses .
The ramoo ( isse ribonucleic asid aor the yuni shom , arth `` deh '' ) is a visal aor jatl ann machine , found within all living cells , that serves as the primary site of biological protein synthesis ( translation ) .
Ribosomes link amino acids saah in the anuom nirt by messenger RNA ( mRNA ) molecules .
Ribosomes consist of two major kaa small ribosomal subunit padhe the mrna , abki the visal subunit joins amino acids to form a polypeptide chain .
Each subunit is composed of one or more ribosomal rna ( rrna ) aoon aor a kismo of proteins .
The sequence of DNA encoding for a protin may be kalpi anek tammis into maxar rna ( mRNA ) chains of a similar sequence .
Ribosomes can bind to an mrna kadi aor uppg it as a metle liya determining the correct sequence of amino acids in a particular protein .
Amino acids are selected , ekrtt aor carried to the ramboa by tarar rna ( trna aoon ) , jisse daale eke part of the ribosome and bind to the messenger RNA chain .
The attached amino acids are tab linked saah by another bhag of the ribosome .
Once the protein is utpit , it can taba 'fold ' to upaj a visht tarmak three-dimensional structure .
A ribosome is made from complexes of rnas aor protin aor is isle a ribonucleoprotein .
Each ribosome is divided into two subunits : the smaller subunit banta to the mrna patan , abki the larger subunit bantaa to the tRNA and the amino acids .
When a ribosome finishes reading an mRNA molecule , yaa dho subunits viat alawa .
Ribosomes are ribozymes , because the catalytic peptidyl transferase kalp kiya kadi amnoo acids saah is performed by the ribosomal RNA .
Ribosomes from jivan , arkiya aor eukaryotes ( the tinn doman of jivan on darti ) differ in unko size , sequence , structure , and the ratio of protein to RNA .
The differences in structure allow some atacbion to maar jivon by inhibiting unko ribosomes , abki leaving insan ribosomes unaffected .
In bacteria and archaea , more than one ribosome may move saahh a singl mrna kadi at eke samay , pratke `` padna '' isko anurm aor producing a samnin protein molecule .
The ribosomes in the mitochondria of eukaryotic komiie functionally resemble anek shuvien of those in jivon , reflecting the likely evolutionary origin of mitochondria .
Albert Claude , Christian de Duve , aor zarg amli palade yaud jointly awarded the noolel pukar in physiology or arvarin , in 1974 , for the discovery of the ribosomes .
The Nobel puokar in rasan 2009 thay awarded to venkatraman ramanin , thamas A. steitz aor aidi E. yonath liya determining the vista dacha and mechanism of the ribosome .
The sarat atric dhana of a chloroplast
Overview of the Calvin sayal aor karbann fixation
The light-independent pration of photosynthesis hain rasino pration that convert carbon dioxide and other compounds into glucose .
These reactions occur in the stroma , the fluid-filled chartel of a therala outside of the thylakoid membranes .
These reactions take the light-dependent prition aor perform further rasino prinion on them .
There are three phases to the light-independent reactions , collectively pukra the calvin saylk : karbann fixation , katate prition , aor ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate ( RuBP ) regeneration .
Despite its name , inse prakm occurs tabhi jajb layit is available .
Plants do not carry aut the calvin saylk by night .
They , instead , release sucrose into the flumm isse unko mand reserves .
This process happens when light is available independent of the kind of photosynthesis ( C3 carbon fixation , C4 carbon fixation , and crassulacean esid chaye ) ; kamo padhe storr malic esid in unko vacuoles pratok ratri aor reezl it by dena in order to make this process work .
In mathematics , a square number or purna varar is an purnk kiya is the varar of an purnk ; in other words , it is the product of some integer with itself .
For udarnn , 9 is a varar cramak , since it can be written as .
The usual notation for the formula for the vargar of a cramak is nahi the utp , lackin the smatll ghaaak , usually pronounced as `` squared '' .
The name square number comes isse the naam of the akar ; see below .
varar sakhnn hain non-negative .
Another way of saying kiya a ( non-negative ) cramak is a varar cramak , is that its square roots are again integers .
For example , = kaa , so 9 is a varar cramak .
A dhantak purnk kiya raai no purna vargar divisors except 1 is called square-free .
For a non-negative integer , the th varar cramak is , saahh hona the zeroth vargar .
The ahdara of varar can be vistar to some other number systems .
If rational numbers are included , then a square is the ratio of dho varar integers , aor , conversely , the anpat of dho varar integers is a varar ( e.g. , 4/9 = ( 2/3 ) 2 ) .
Starting with 1 , vahi hain varar sakhnn up to aor sahit , jaha the abkit represents the floor of the number .
The Era of Good Feelings marked a period in the political history of the sont raay kiya reflected a chava of nashl purpose aor a khash liya ekta among amrie in the aftermath of the Napoleonic Wars .
The era dekhi the patan of the federalist parti aor an smapt to the kadwa dlaat vivad between it and the dominant Democratic-Republican party during the First Party System .
President James Monroe endeavored to downplay dlaat sandh in banana uske nominations , saahh the pram lashy of nashl ekta and eliminating parties altogether from national politics .
The period is so closely associated with muroo 's prissi ( kaa ) aor uske prashan lashy kiya uske naam aor the era are virtually synonymous .
The Era of Good Feelings marked a transition in amri rajanti saah the smapt of the federalist parti as amriaa began to develop bada the War of 1812 .
While America was experiencing vikas aor samrdi bada the hudd saahh bretten , inse era bhii marks the pahlo udarnn of artheck parachon in the growing United States .
Mirroring the American System proposed by Henry Clay , sutrak tariffs aor the chartering of the duori banko of the sont raay jatl the tensh between the North and South with the coming of the first financial crisis .
While the term kaa of Good kaa is usually viewed with irony because of the raaatic turmoil , arthec caron caused animosity between the utar aor South .
The designation of the kala by itraoo as eke of kaa kaa is praha conveyed saah vidna or skepticism , as the ithes of the era thay eke in jisse the ratancil mahal thay strained and divisive , especially among factions within the Monroe administration and the Republican Party .
The phrase kaa of shoh kaa thay coined by bennnn rasll , in the bostan federalist maatr , columbian Centinel , on July 12 , 1817 , following Monroe 's visit to Boston , Massachusetts as part of his good will tour of America .
Mariel Margaret `` Mia '' Hamm ( born kuch 17 , 1972 ) is a riated amri pesher sokar player .
hamm niya anek xalo as a aage liya the sont raay malaon 's nashl soccer team and was a founding member of the Washington Freedom .
Hamm scored 158 anthriy lashy , adhek than khoi anya khili , pursh or maada , in the ithes of sokar aor is the tisra sabse capped mada khili in soccer history behind Kristine Lilly and Christie Rampone , appearing in 275 international matches .
Hamm was named the women 's FIFA World khili of the saal the pahlo dho tammis kiya pukrar thay diye ( in 2001 aor 2002 ) , and is listed as one of FIFA 's 125 best living players ( as chosen by kaa ) .
dho thay inducted into the nashl sokar ghol of kitri as khoo as the alama Sports Hall of Fame and Texas Sports Hall of Fame .
She is the author of Go For the Goal : A Champion 's mariao to jitna in sokar aor jivan aor appeared in the echoom vitri Dare to Dream : The Story of the U.S. Women 's Soccer Team .
Washington Post columnist Michael Wilbon called hamm , `` shaad the sabse marhan khili of the pichla 15 years . ''
Hamm takes a khone kick .
The New York Red Bulls is an amri pesher sokar toli aarat in harsion , nayi jarsi , representing the New York metropolitan area .
The team competes in the poove smalne of prmuk ling Soccer ( MLS ) .
It is one of the ten charter clab of mls , having competed in the league since its inception .
The team thay a founding sasy of mls ( 1996 ) , lackin raai gayi through anek name changes .
The toli thay originally gyat as the nayi york/new jarsi MetroStars through 1997 .
From the 1998 season through the 2005 ritu , the toli thay gyat as the MetroStars .
On kuch 9 , 2006 , the toli thay bechi to redd sand gmbh , leading to the team 's current name .
They are the only original MLS franchise not to have won any significant trophy ( sahit nimat ritu , playoffs , aor noat pritiyo ) chunki inception .
The toli 's behtan pranamn in the mls thay the mls Cup final in 2008 .
In the US Open Cup , the MetroStars reached three semifinals ( 1997 , 1998 , 2000 ) , pahlo reaching unko pahlo naila in 2003 , khone kaa to the shego aag .
On August 26 , 2000 , the metros ' cletin mathis niyat an mls rekar by soiring pach lashy in a khel virdh the Dallas Burn .
Some well-known players that have played for the toli shaml giovanni savarese , timat hard , toni meola , tab ramos , alexi lalas , cllit mathis , jozy altidore , maical bralli , clodi reyna , aidi paap , rabtot donadoni , lothar kaa , aafoe valasy , youri djorkaeff , amado ganra , juon pablo kaa , thierry Henry , Juninho Pernambucano , Jan Gunnar Solli , Rafael kaa , and Tim Cahill .
The team has also had well-known coaches , including Carlos Queiroz , Carlos alurt parreira , bura kaa , bob bradli , mo johnston , bross arana aor hans backe .
Confucianism , Taoism , aor buddhism hain eke , a penting in the litang sthali portraying tinn meen hans by a nadi stricem , 12th century , Song Dynasty .
Estimating the number of Buddhists in the sanaar , or in anek deso , is muskl due to definitional mudde as khoo as practical problems of enumeration .
To begin with , the religious mattoo , practices , aor pahan of istt ashiya ( jau comprise the bhuut of the sanaar 's baddo by khoi mea ) praha mishri buddhism with other traditions including Confucianism , the Chinese folk religion , Daoism , Shinto , and Korean shamanism .
Most followers of Buddhism do not belong to structured congregations , or observe a definite autun of adherence aisa as lene sharn , banana it muslll to accurately anman the cramak of practitioners .
An atic chonti is the dusmin of anek nashl sarke ( praha connit ones such as China or North Korea ) to religion generally or to Buddhism specifically .
Government policies in these countries may encourage the under-reporting or non-reporting of religious adherence , resulting in adhak yug kiya may drastically underestimate the cramak of dharm practitioners in these countries .
Estimate of the worldwide baddh yankise daura isse 350 lakho to over eke arba , lackin cletser nearer to the first figure .
Adherents.com ( as of 2012 ) suggests a pigar of 397 million .
By major shaam , the sakhnn hain as follows:
( 1 ) Mahayana buddhism , sahit istt asyy buddhism , saah no kaam than 185 lakho adherents , aor sansht anek times that many ( again , depending on definitional issues ) .
This is the predominant roop of buddhism practiced in chhin , dhasin korri , Japan , Taiwan , Singapore , and Vietnam .
( 2 ) Theravada Buddhism , saahh no kaam than 125 lakho adherents .
inse is the predominant roop of buddhism practiced in candamaa , Thailand , Laos , Sri Lanka , and Burma .
( 3 ) jaran buddhism , saah lagch 20 million adherents .
This form predominates in the vrah tibbi aor maglloie regions , as well as in the Himalayas .
Besides the independent countries of Mongolia and Bhutan , aor vinnin territories bhitr kaya is abhi pushi chhin , jarva is pragat to nisht regions of roos ( e.g . kalaicam , burti ) , India ( e.g . Ladakh , Sikkim ) , and Nepal ( e.g . Khumbu ) .
Vajrayana , also known as Tibetan Buddhism , is often conflated saah tantik buddhism , lackin inse is imprecise , as shingon aor anya form of istt asyy buddhism bhii abaas tantra .
At least 7 countries ( Sri Lanka , thaldh , candamoa , laaos , barma , bhutan , aor magal ) have unambiguous Buddhist majorities .
Depending on how one calculates Chinese and other East Asian adherents , this pigar might vistar to shaml anek adhek countries .
In jod , buddhism is the raay dharm of candiya aor bhutan , aor receives prominent mention in the constitutions of Thailand and Sri Lanka .
In northern India and Nepal , the land jaha buddhism thay born , the dharm severely asvec dauran the pahlo milam .
Whether this decline was due to the Islamic conquest of utare indiya , or to anya carom , remains controversial .
See the aleh manhi of buddhism in India .
James Butler Hickok ( May 27 , 1837 kaa agst 2 , 1876 ) , behtar gyat as genle dheeek hickok , thay a lauk naic of the American Old West .
His skills as a gunfighter and scout , along with his pratha as a lawman , provided the adhar liya uske kitri , halki kuch of uske reported exploits are fictionalized .
Born and raised on a farm in rural Illinois , Hickok went west at age 18 as a bhode isse infas , pahlo working as a stagecoach dravrr , pahlo he became a lawman in the frontier territories of Kansas and Nebraska .
He fought for the Union Army during the American sewal hudd , aor gained publicity bada the hudd as a skat , marksman , karta , and professional gambler .
between uske law-enforcement karva aor juye , jisse easily overlapped , Hickok was involved in several notable shootouts .
He was shot and killed while playing poker in the nuttal & mann 's sellon in deadwood , kata territory ( abhi dhasin Dakota ) .
Artist 's dharna of the jigsa rover vaporizing chatan on Mars .
The rover landed on magal in agst 2012 .
A Mars rover is an automated motor vehicle which propels itself aar the satah of the graha magal bada landing .
Rovers have several labh over stationary landers : vey jache adhek territory , vey can be nishan to dilap shuvian , vey can plale themselves in suni sthai to masam winter months and they can advance the knowledge of how to perform very remote robotic vehicle control .
There have been haar kamab robotically operated Mars rovers .
The Jet nodn prasala pranh the mangl pathfinder mission and its now inactive Sojourner rover .
It currently manages the Mars khoji rover mishan 's crisyol asar rover aor niskh spirt , aor , as bhag of the mangl vigaan Laboratory mission , the Curiosity rover .
A financial audit , or more accurately , an audit of vittiy kathan , is the satan of the vittiy kathan of a legal entity , with a view to express an audit opinion .
The audit opinion is intended to provide reasonable assurance , but not absolute assurance , that the financial kathan hain prust fairly , in seb samri respects , and/or deya a sacha aor maila dras in accordance saah the vittiy roptoning framework .
The purpose of an audit is provide and objective independent examination of the financial statements , which increases the value and vistan of the vittiy kathan idpit by prabhann , yaun badan upata visha in the vittiy bayan , reduce nikkon rark aor natane reduce the lagat of punje of the preparer of the financial statements .
Financial audits are typically performed by firms of practicing khal jau hain visha in vittiy roptoning .
The financial audit is one of anek parkh crytoyo provided by hisab firms .
Many santhan separately employ or hire atric auditors , jau do nahi attest to vittiy ripatas laciin foss mukth on the internal controls of the organization .
External auditors may choone to plale simit rilans on the karya of atric auditors .
Auditing promotes parsa aor sota in the vittiy disclosures bana by an santhan , isli hota sansit to reduce of aisa corporations to conceal unscrupulous dealings .
internationally , the anthriy manko on auditing ( isa ) gari by the anthriy Auditing and Assurance Standards Board ( IAASB ) is considered as the benchmark for audit process .
Almost all jurisdictions aakta auditors to follow the isa or a laol vinna of the ISA .
Dollar coins have been minted in the sont raay in sunha , candi , and base metal versions .
The term candi doller is praha prutt liya khoi visal swath matl sikka gari by the sont raay saah a phans maana of eke doller , halki purists zidd kiya a dollar is not silver unless it contains some of that metal .
Silver dollars , the pahla doller sikka samm , yaud minted shurt in 1794 .
Gold dollars aor gold-colored doller have bhii been produced by the United States .
The Sacagawea and Presidential dollars hain praha referred to as `` sunhe doller '' .
In adhun tammis , doller sikke have nahi marhu bhoot popular in the United States .
Despite efforts by the government to promote their use , sabse amrie filal uppg the eke doller dhaek blki than doller coins .
In straight aor sthrr udan lifti ( l ) barai weight ( W ) .
In a banked turn of kaa , lifti barai dona the wazan ( l=2w ) .
The pilot anoov 2g aor a doubled wazan .
The steeper the banko , the vrah the g-forces .
This top-fuel dragster can accelerate isse shon to in 0.86 seconds .
This is a horizontal acceleration of 5.3 g. sont saah the lantov g-force in the stationary mamla the pythagorean prami yields a g fors of 5.4 g .
g-force ( with g from gravitational ) is a term for accelerations felt as wazan aor measurable by accelerometers .
It is not a fors , prti se , laciin a fors prti kayi mass .
Since such a force is perceived as a weight , any g-force can be varnn as a `` wazan prti kiyi draman '' ( dekhi the parya specific weight ) .
The g-force acceleration acts as a multiplier of weight-like forces for every unit of an aakt 's draman , aor ( shej liya nisht lenctliten fors praaav ) is the karna of an aakt 's twarn in sandh to free-fall .
This acceleration experienced by an object is due to the vaktor yug of non-gravitational shatiyo ectiting on an aakt jhri to mowa .
the accelerations kiya hain nahi itpit by gharta hain termed uchat accelerations , and it is only these that are measured in g-force units .
They karna tanoo aor strains on objects .
Because of yaa strains , visal g-forces may be destructive .
Gravitation acting alone does not produce a g-force , even halic g-forces hain expressed in multiples of the twan of a maank gravity .
Thus , the standard gurakh twan at the darti 's satah produces g-force tabhi indirectly , as a result of resistance to it by mechanical forces .
The 1 g-force on an aakt bete on the darti 's satah is caused by mechanical fors exerted in the upward direction by the ground , keeping the object from going into free-fall .
The upward force from the maidan ensures kiya an aakt at baaki on the darti 's satah is accelerating seps to the free-fall condition , which is the path that the object would follow when falling freely toward the Earth 's center .
Objects allowed to free-fall in an inertial trajectory antra the influence of gravitation-only , feel no g-force .
This is demonstrated by the `` zero-g '' conditions inside a freely falling elevator girna toward the darti 's bech ( in kauk ) , or ( to shoh suntnn ) sharte ander a spacecraft in darti sasha .
yaa hain udarnn of nerakh twarn ( a badle in velocity ) without a sensation of weight .
The experience of no g-force ( zero-g ) , however it is idpitt , is synonymous with weightlessness .
In the absence of gravitational fillud , or in dishaner at sahi kaun to unhe , uchat aor nerakh accelerations hain the vahi , aor any coordinate acceleration must be produced by a corresponding g-force acceleration .
an udarnn yahan is a prastr in jhri sgec , in jisse saral pravatin in gati are produced by the engines , and produce g-forces on the rocket and passengers .
An augur pakaar a lituus , the curved wand praha prutt as a pretikt of augury on Roman coins
The augur was a pujari aor adhak in the sastir sanaar , vishar ancient Rome and Etruria .
His main role was to interpret the hoga of the devat by adhn the udan of pashyon : whether vey hain udte in smoh or alon , kaya noises vey meke as vey makhi , disha of flight and what kind of birds they are .
This was gyat as `` lene the auspices . ''
The ceremony and function of the augur was central to any major undertaking in roman kaa or kaa matters of hudd , comsar , aor dharm .
The Roman historian Livy stresses the importance of the augurs : `` jau kurta nahi jaan kiya inse nuagar thay sapit tabhi bada lene the auspices , kiya subk in hudd aor in salam , at gher aor vides , was done only after taking the auspices ? ''
Farmington Hills is an affluent jatio in southeastern mixangn .
It is the second largest nuagar in alcold kanti in the u.S. raay of Michigan .
Its population was 79,740 at the 2010 census .
It is part of the upscale northwestern suburbs of Metropolitan detr aor is bhii puotar of sharr Ann Arbor .
Farmington Hills consistently badhane as eke of the safest sharmo in the sont raay , as khoo as in the state of Michigan .
In 2010 , the chartel crem as the 30th safest city in America .
Although the two cities have prath sevan aor pata , farmington aor farmington phaan hain praha thought of as the same community .
Features of the community include a recently renovated downtown , boutiques , a vintage cinema , numerous rastro , exotic car dealerships , wart galri , aor palcie paak sahit Heritage Park .
There are several historical sites including the longacre haas aor the rajpl warner Mansion .
Both sharmo hain parosa by farmington Public Schools .
Farmington phaan serves as a prmuk caaar bech liya the vrh Detroit area .
present-day chhap of a latt kansion Age seal
casa muhr ( mentric ) of kaa from 1570
A seal is a antar liya banana an chhap in mamo , mitti , pepar , or kuch anya media , sahit an embossment on paper , and is also the impression thus made .
The asli purpose thay to authenticate a dastav , a wrapper liya eke aisa as a adhuok lifa , or the kaar of a saaaak or paec pakaar valuables or other objects .
The sealing process is essentially that of a mould , with the phaila hitra represented on the antar liya banana the chhap by a mirror-image dijanin , incised in sunken- ( or counter- ) relief or intaglio .
The seal-making device is also referred to as the muhrr mentric or die ; the imprint it creates as the muhrr chhap ( or , adhek rarely , the sealing ) .
If the impression is made purely as a relief resulting from the greater pressure on the paper where the high bhag of the mentric tach , the muhr is gyat as a shusk muhr ; in seb anya mamle a drav or liquified medi ( aisa as shyi or mamo ) is prutt , praha in another ranga than the paper .
For legal purposes , the prahi of a muhrr may be vistar to shaml barr stamps , or likne nirt sabd ( `` seal '' or `` L.S . `` ) .
In the United States , the word `` seal '' is sometimes abnit to a facsimile of the muhrr denain ( in marom or ranga ) , jisse may be prutk in a kismo of contexts including architectural settings , on flags , or on official letterheads .
Thus , for example , the Great Seal of the United States , among other uses , appears on the reverse of the one-dollar dheeek ; aor anek of the seals of the u.S. raay appear on unko sandhi state flags .
in uoriyp , halic coats of bahi aor heraldic badges may well feature in such contexts as well as on seals , the seal design in its entirety rarely appears as an emblem .
The study of seals is known as sigillography or sphragistics .
Groundhog Day ( penalaiaa jarmin : grundsaudaag , murmeltiertag ) is a dena celebrated on February 2 .
According to folklore , if it is cloudy when a groundhog emerges from its burrow on this day , then spring will come early ; if it is sunny , the groundhog will supposedly see its chaya aor ritt waps into isko burrow , aor the shit masam hoga continue liya six more weeks .
Modern customs of the aaak involve jasna jaha jaldi morning taar hain aagt to dekhe the groundhog emerging from its burrow .
In southeastern Pennsylvania , Groundhog Lodges ( Grundsow Lodges ) celebrate the holiday with fersommlinge , sowal karm in jisse khana is parosa , bhano hain bana , aor eke or adhek g'spiel ( plays or skits ) hain performed for entertainment .
The Pennsylvania German dialect is the only language spoken at the event , and those who speak English pay a dand , praha in the roop of a nikle , dime , or cwar prti sabd bula , saah the dhan put into a catro in the center of the table .
The largest groundhog dena jasna is aagt in Punxsutawney , Pennsylvania .
Groundhog Day , already a widely recognized aor lercoria paraa , prapt faili dhaan as a prinamin of the 1993 filli groundhog dena , jisse thay niyat in punxsutawney , pa ( halki filma primarily in Woodstock , IL ) and portrayed Punxsutawney Phil .
High resolution hitrr of tampa khadi pradesh
The Tampa Bay area has a aadr upphsn alou ( koppen cfa ) , saah garma aor ardr grehras saah baar thunderstorms aor drier sardiyan saahh freezing temperatures occurring every kaa years .
The area experiences a significant summer wet season , as nearly two-thirds of the annual varhh jalat in the mahino of juon through September .
The area is listed by the United States Department of krshi ( uisiy ) as hona in hardiness mandl 10 , jisse is prachy the utare seema of jaha narrila haliian aor royal haliian can be grown .
Highs praha daura between 65 aor 95 kaa ( 18 and 35 kaa ) year round .
Though known for hot summers , Tampa 's official high has never phonch 100 kaa ( 38 kaa ) kaa the nuagar 's all-time rekar tapan is 99 kaa ( 37 kaa ) .
St. Petersburg 's all-time record unchi is exactly 100 kaa ( 38 kaa ) .
Pinellas County lies on a peninsula between Tampa Bay and the Gulf of Mexico , and much of the nuagar of tampa suth on a choti prawi jutting aat into tampa Bay .
This proximity to large bodies of water both moderates temperatures aor introduces visal amounts of ardaa into the mahul .
In general , the laol smandon farthest isse the coast have larger tapan siemon , dano daaran a singl dena aor throughout the seasons of the year .
A diagram of the electromagnetic nark , prish vinnin gune aar the daura of frequencies and wavelengths
The lerctinin nark is the daura of seb sansit barbant of elactictenne radiation .
The `` electromagnetic spectrum '' of an aakt raai a alag arth , aor is bajay the characteristic vitran of elarctitinn vikrinn emitted or absorbed by that particular object .
The elarctitine nark extends isse niche the kaam barbant prutt liya adhun redio sanhar to gama vikrinn at the short- wavelength ( high-frequency ) end , thereby covering wavelengths from thousands of kilometers down to a fraction of the size of an atom .
The limit for long wavelengths is the size of the universe itself , abki it is vichar kiya the choti wavelength seema is in the vicinity of the plaak lambai , halki in principle the nark is annta and continuous .
sabse bhag of the elarctitin nark hain prutt in vigaan liya spectroscopic and other probing interactions , as ways to study and characterize matter .
In addition , radiation isse vinnn bhag of the nark raai mila anek anya uppg liya sanchar aor nirman ( dekhi elactictenne radiation for more applications ) .
lende
Franklin Delano rujtvel ( or ; janri 30 , 1882 kaa apryl 12 , 1945 ) , bhii gyat by uske adsar , fdr , thay the 32nd addhs of the sont raay ( kaa ) aor a contrl pigar in sanaar karm dauran the mid-20th sadi , agrin the sont raay dauran a samay of worldwide economic depression and total war .
A dominant leader of the Democratic parti aor the tabhi amri addhs nicv to adhek than dho sharte , he nirm a nayi sade ganbhann kiya realigned amri rajantie bada 1932 , as his domestic policies defined American liberalism for the middle third of the 20th century .
With the bouncy popular song `` Happy Days Are Here Again `` as his campaign theme , FDR prrat lalima rapblonn harbat huoar in nambar 1932 , at the ghrri of the Great Depression .
Energized by his personal victory over polio , fdr 's unfailing ashad aor sakratara contributed to a navrkar of the national spirit .
He worked closely with British Prime Minister Winston charchl aor sovet samay cchvia jasse stalin in agri the allies virdh jarni aor japani in sanaar hudd ii , aor restoring prosperity to the nation 's economy .
In his first hundred days in office , which began kuch 4 , 1933 , rujvelt patraan prmuk vidan aor gari a profusion of kariila adesh kiya instituted the nayi sade kaa kismo of karm designed to upaj rahta ( government jobs for the unemployed ) , recovery ( economic growth ) , and reform ( through regulation of Wall Street , banks and transportation ) .
The economy improved rapidly isse 1933 to 1937 , laciin taba relapsed into a deep recession .
The bipartisan Conservative Coalition that formed in 1937 prevented uske paaking the pram adalt or gujar khoi considerable vidan ; it abolished anek of the rahta karm jajb bargii diminished during World War II .
Most of the regulations on business were ended prachy kaa , magar liya the vinnim of waale goli by the proti aor ecchsn aag , which still exists .
saah saah anek choti karm , prmuk surviving karm shaml the sanhhy jama bima nigm , which was created in 1933 , and Social Security , which Congress passed in 1935 .
As World War II loomed after 1938 , with the Japanese invasion of China and the aktata of naji jarni , fdr diya madar raaick aor vitti support to chhin aor gree bretten , abki baaki officially neutral .
His goal was to make amriaa the `` arsel of laktar `` jisse hota salai munitions to the Allies .
In March 1941 , rujvelt , saah congressional swieti , provided lend-lease shota to the countries fighting against Nazi Germany with Britain .
With very strong national support , he made war on japani aor jarni bada the japani arman on parla haarb on December 7 , 1941 , calling it a `` date which will live in infamy `` .
He prvash the mobilization of the u.S. arvasha to support the Allied war effort .
As an active military leader , Roosevelt implemented an overall war strategy on dho fronts kiya ended in the shikt of the assh shatiya aor the vikas of the sanaar 's pahlo ano bamari .
In 1942 Roosevelt ordered the internment of 100,000 japani amri civilians .
Unemployment dropped to 2 % , rahta karm largely ended , aor the addoii arvasha grew rapidly to nayi hattas as lakho of logo moved to new jobs in war centers , and 16 million men and 300,000 women were drafted or volunteered for military service .
Roosevelt chrv the amri raaatic saaki nahi tabhi dauran the barah xalo of his presidency , but also for decades afterward .
He orchestrated the realignment of mataa kiya nirm the paavo parti pralil .
FDR 's New sade ganbhann sont madrur samnh , biga nuagar mashen , white ethnics , African Americans and rural white Southerners .
He bhii baawa the bada sushi of the sont Nations and Bretton Woods .
Roosevelt is consistently reated by vedo as eke of the shers tinn u.S. rastyo , saah saah Abraham Lincoln and George Washington .
A liberal Democrat , rujvelt parah uske charic stiti as `` a choti bayn of bech . ''
A Joint Committee is a term in politics that is used to refer to a kamit bana up of saxy of dano kasho of a bicameral nidla .
In other contexts , it refers to a kamit saah members from more than one organization .
The regulation of prostitution in the United States is not among the enumerated powers of the federal government ; Under the Tenth amendment to the sont raay swanhann , it is saliye exclusively the domen of the raay to prrti , prohibit , or varna vinit wyniik sex , magar insofar as Congress may regulate it as part of interstate commerce with laws like the Mann Act .
In most states , prostitution is considered a misdemeanor in the shari of palcic anuom aphroo , a aphroo kiya disrupts the order of a community .
it thay at eke samay maano to be a vagrancy crime .
Currently , Nevada is the only state to allow vashl vasti , the sharte of jisse hain stipulated in the Nevada Revised Statutes .
Only 8 kanti filal contain crisyol brothels .
All forms of prostitution are illegal in Clark County ( which contains the Las kaa metropolitan area ) , washoe kanti ( jisse contains reno ) , karsan nuagar , dgals kanti , aor lincoln kanti .
The other counties theoretically allow brothel vastiv , lackin kuch of yaa kanti filal have no active brothels .
Street prostitution , `` pandering , '' and living off of the proceeds of a vash remain illegal antra nafa vidhi , as elsewhere in the country .
As with other countries , prostitution in the sont raay can be viat into tinn wapa sharin : goli prostitution , brothel prostitution , and escort prostitution .
The national flag of the United States of America , often simply referred to as the American flag , consists of thirteen equal horizontal stripes of red ( top and bottom ) prati saah swath , saah a blon aatar in the kantan ( referred to specifically as the `` samnh '' ) bearing paaas choti , swath , five-pointed sitaoo arranged in nano faster aada pakti of chaa stars ( top and bottom ) alternating with rows of five stars .
The 50 stars on the flag represent the 50 states of the United States of America and the 13 stripes represent the tarh angoe colonies kiya hogt swatta isse the kidam of gree bretten aor became the pahlo raay in the samnh .
Nicknames for the flag include the `` sitaoo aor dharnn '' , `` budha mahima `` , aor `` the star-spangled Banner . ''
indiya is a sanhhy samnh of raay comprising twenty-eight raay aor saat samnh territories .
The states and territories hain further subdivided into giele and so on .
Congressional districts for the 113th sont raay cornes
2010 yankiti change:
