A  partly submerged हिमानी गुफा  on Perito Moreno Glacier .
The ice facade is  लगभग 60 m ऊँची
Ice formations in the Titlis  हिमानी गुफा
A glacier  गुफा is a गुफा formed  within the ice of a glacier .
Glacier caves  हैं प्रायः पुकारा बर्फ गुफाएं , लकिन इस पद is properly प्रयुक्त  to describe bedrock caves that contain year-round ice .
In physics , circular motion is a movement of an  ऑब्जेक्ट साथ the परिधि of a वृत्त or रोटेशन  along a circular path .
It can be uniform , with  निरंतर कोणीय रेट of रोटेशन ( और निरंतर गति  ) , or non-uniform with a changing rate of rotation .
The rotation around a  फिक्स्ड अक्ष of a three-dimensional  body involves circular motion of its parts .
The  equations of गति describe the गति  of the center of mass of a body .
Examples of circular motion include : an artificial satellite orbiting the Earth at constant height , a stone which is tied to a  रस्सी और is होने swung in वृत्त , a car turning through a वक्र in a रेस track , an इलेक्ट्रॉन चलती लम्बवत  to a uniform magnetic field , and a gear turning inside a mechanism .
Since the object 's velocity vector is constantly changing direction , the moving object is  undergoing त्वरण by a अभिकेन्द्रीय फ़ोर्स in the दिशा of the  center of rotation .
Without  इस त्वरण , the ऑब्जेक्ट  would move in a straight line , according to Newton 's laws of motion .
Apollo Creed is a fictional character from the Rocky films  , initially portrayed as the undisputed हेवीवेट  Champion of the World .
He was  निभाई by कार्ल  Weathers .
Creed had multiple nicknames , including The Master of Disaster , The King of  स्टिंग , the नाचना विनाशक , the प्रिंस of पंच , the  One and Only and The Count of Monte Fisto .
Urban legend states that Apollo Creed 's name is a wordplay on the Apostles ' Creed , a  बयान of विश्वास प्रयुक्त in ईसाई चर्च  .
All of Apollo 's championship  झगड़े यहूद अनुसूचित लिये the  15 round distance .
Championship fights did not  बदलें इससे 15 rounds to  12 rounds until 1987 .
Rocky Balboa is often wrongly credited with popularizing the red , white , and blue trunks ; Creed  थी the पहला man to पहनें उन्हें ( latterly worn by रॉकी बाल्बोआ in the 3rd और  4th installments and finally by Tommy `` The Machine '' Gunn ( Tommy Morrison ) in the 5th installment ) although normally he wore red and white , as seen in Rocky II .
Balboa 's signature colors were black and gold—colors  he प्रयुक्त in the नवीनतम फिल्म  .
In the United  राज्य , the शीर्षक of संघीय न्यायधीश प्रायः अर्थात् a न्यायधीश नियुक्त by the अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त  States and confirmed by the United States Senate pursuant to the Appointments Clause in Article II of the United States Constitution .
In addition to the Supreme Court of the United States , whose existence and some aspects of whose jurisdiction are beyond the constitutional power of Congress to alter , acts of  Congress  have established 13 courts of appeals ( also called `` circuit courts '' ) with appellate jurisdiction over different regions of the United States , and 94 United States district courts .
Every judge appointed to such a court may be categorized as a federal judge ; such positions include the Chief  इंसाफ और संबद्ध justices of the परम् अदालत , सर्किट न्यायाधीशों of the न्यायालयों of appeals ,  and district judges of the United States district courts .
All of these judges described thus far are referred to  sometimes as `` आलेख iii न्यायाधीशों '' क्युकी वे कसरत the न्यायिक शक्ति vested in the न्यायिक  branch of the federal government by Article III of the U.S. Constitution .
In addition , judges of the Court of  अंतरराष्ट्रीय व्यापार कसरत न्यायिक  power pursuant to Article III .
Other judges serving in the federal courts , including magistrate judges and bankruptcy judges , are also sometimes referred to as `` federal judges '' ;  however , वे हैं neither नियुक्त by the अध्यक्ष nor पुष्टि by the सीनेट , और उनके  power derives from Article I instead .
देखिए आलेख i और  Article III tribunals .
The Beretta 21A Bobcat is a  छोटी pocket-sized semi-automatic  pistol designed by Beretta in Italy .
उत्पादन began in लेट 1984 , solely in the beretta  U.S.A. facility in Accokeek , Maryland .
It is a further development of  the beretta मॉडल 20 , जिनकी उत्पादन  ended in 1985 .
Variable  सार्वभौमिक जीवन बीमे ( प्रायः shortened to vul ) is a  type of life insurance that builds a cash value .
In a VUL , the cash value can be  invested in a चौड़ी किस्में of पृथक खाते , समान to परस्पर निधि , और the चुनाव  of which of the available separate accounts to use is entirely up to the contract owner .
The 'variable ' component in the name refers to this ability to invest in separate accounts  जिनकी मान vary—they vary क्युकी वे हैं invested in भण्डार and/or बंध बाज़ार  .
the 'universal ' घटक in the नाम refers to  the flexibility the owner has in making premium payments .
The premiums can vary from nothing in a given month up to maximums  पारिभाषित by the आतंरिक आय कोड  for life insurance .
This flexibility is in  कंट्रास्ट to पूरे जीवन बीमे कि रै फिक्स्ड प्रीमियम भुगतान कि typically can नहीं be  missed without lapsing the policy ( although one may exercise an Automatic Premium Loan feature , or surrender dividends to pay a Whole Life premium ) .
Variable universal life is a type of permanent  जीवन बीमे , क्युकी the मौत लाभ होगा be सशुल्क if the insured मरता कोई  time as long as there is sufficient cash value to pay the costs of insurance in the policy .
With most if not all VULs , unlike whole life , there is no endowment age ( the age at  जिससे the नकदी मान बराबरी the मौत लाभ राशि , जिससे लिये  whole life is typically 100 ) .
This is yet another  कुंजी लाभ  of VUL over Whole Life .
With a typical whole life policy , the death benefit  is सीमित to the फेस राशि निर्दिष्ट in  the policy , and at endowment age , the face amount is all that is paid out .
Thus with either death or endowment , the insurance  कम्पनी keeps कोई नकदी मान निर्मित up over  the years .
However , some participating whole life policies offer riders which specify that  कोई dividends सशुल्क on the नीति be प्रयुक्त to खरीदें `` सशुल्क up परिवर्धन '' to the  policy which increase both the cash value and the death benefit over time .
if निवेश बना in the पृथक खाते out-perform the सामान्य खाता  of the insurance company , a higher rate-of-return can occur than the fixed rates-of-return typical for whole life .
The combination over the years of no endowment age , continually increasing death benefit , and if a high rate-of-return is earned in the separate accounts of a VUL  नीति , इस could परिणाम in उच्चतर मान to the मालिक or लाभार्थी than  that of a whole life policy with the same amounts of money paid in as premiums .
The outdoor wood boiler is a variant of the classic wood stove adapted for set-up outdoors  जबकि स्टिल transferring the ऊष्मा to आंतरिक इमारतें  .
A mound of  लड़की स्काउट कुकीज़  .
This  mound contains 74 बाक्स  of cookies
Girl Scout  कुकीज़ हैं कुकीज़ बेची by लड़की स्काउट of the यूएसए (  GSUSA ) as one of its major fundraisers for local Scout units .
सदस्यों of the gsusa have  been selling cookies since 1917 to raise funds .
Girls who  participate can  earn prizes for their efforts .
There are  भी ईकाई प्रोत्साहन  if the unit as a whole does well .
As of 2007 , sales were  अनुमानित at परिचय  200 million boxes per year .
विश्वविद्यालयों  Hall
Purdue  विश्वविद्यालयों , स्तिथ in वेस्ट lafayette , इंडियाना ,  is the flagship university of the six-campus Purdue University system .
Purdue was founded on May 6 , 1869 , as a land-grant  विश्वविद्यालयों जब the इंडियाना सामान्य सभा , लेने लाभ of the morrill अधिनियम , स्वीकृत a दान of जमीन और धन इससे lafayette  businessman John Purdue to establish a college of science , technology , and agriculture in his name .
The first classes were held on September 16  , 1874 , साथ छह instructors  and 39 students .
Today , Purdue is a member of the  बिग टेन सम्मेलन , और is a खूब  known world-class research institution .
Purdue enrolls the second largest student body of any university in Indiana as well as the  चौथी largest अंतरराष्ट्रीय छात्र जनसांख्यिकी of कोई विश्वविद्यालयों  in the United States .
purdue offers दोनो undergraduate और ग्रैजुएट कार्यक्रम in over 211  major areas of study , and is well known for its competitive engineering curricula .
The university has also been highly influential in America 's history of aviation , having established the first college credit offered in  उड़ान प्रशिक्षण , the पहला four-year स्नातक 's उपाधि in विमानन , और the पहला  university airport ( Purdue University Airport ) .
Purdue 's aviation technology program remains one of the most competitive  aviation-specific कार्यक्रम in the संसार  .
In the mid-20th century , Purdue 's aviation program  विस्तारित to encompass उन्नत spaceflight प्रौद्योगिकी giving  rise to Purdue 's nickname , Cradle of Astronauts .
Twenty-three Purdue graduates have gone on to become  astronauts , सहित गस grissom ( एक of the असली पारा सात astronauts  ) , Neil Armstrong ( the first person to walk on the moon ) , and Eugene Cernan ( the most recent person to walk on the moon ) .
A sebaceous cyst ( )  is a पद कि loosely refers to either epidermoid cysts ( भी ज्ञात  as epidermal cysts ; L72.0 ) or pilar cysts ( also known as trichilemmal cysts ; L72.1 ) .
Because an epidermoid cyst  originates in the epidermis और a पिलर गाँठ originates इससे बाल follicles  , by definition , neither type of cyst is strictly a sebaceous cyst .
The name  is regarded as a misnomer as the वसीय , श्वेत , semi-solid  material in both of these cyst entities is not sebum , but keratin .
furthermore , अंतर्गत the सूक्ष्मदर्शी  neither entity contains sebaceous glands .
In practice , however ,  the शर्तें हैं प्रायः  used interchangeably .
`` True '' sebaceous cysts are relatively rare  और हैं ज्ञात as steatocystomas or , if अनेक ,  as steatocystoma multiplex .
आधुनिक pointe  shoes .
The edge of the toe pad , which is inserted between the foot and toe  बक्सा लिये cushioning , can be देखी on  the right foot .
A pointe shoe is a  प्रकार of जूता worn by बैले नर्तक  when performing pointe work .
Pointe shoes developed from the  ख्वाहिश लिये नर्तक to appear weightless और sylph -like  and have evolved to enable dancers to dance en pointe ( on the tips of their toes ) for extended periods of time .
They are normally worn by female dancers , though male dancers may wear them for unorthodox  भूमिकाएँ ऐसे as the भद्दा stepsisters in सिंडरेला  , Bottom in A Midsummer Night 's Dream , or men performing as women in dance companies such as Les Ballets Trockadero and Grandiva .
They are manufactured in a variety of colors  , सबसे commonly in शेड्स  of light pink .
This  tablespoon रै a क्षमता  of about 15 mL .
measuring spoons
In the US and parts  of कनाडा , a tablespoon is the largest प्रकार of चमचा प्रयुक्त  for eating from a bowl .
In the UK  , यूरोपीय और सबसे राष्ट्रमंडल देशों , a  tablespoon is a type of large spoon usually used for serving .
In countries where a  tablespoon is a सेवारत  spoon , the nearest equivalent to the US tablespoon is either the dessert spoon or the soup spoon .
A tablespoonful , nominally the capacity  of एक tablespoon , is commonly प्रयुक्त as a माप  of volume in cooking .
It is abbreviated as T , tb ,  tbs , tbsp , tblsp , or tblspn  .
The capacity of  ordinary tablespoons is  not regulated by law and is subject to considerable variation .
In the USA one tablespoon ( measurement unit ) is approximately 15 mL ; the capacity of an actual  tablespoon ( डाइनिंग utensil ) सीमाएँ इससे 7 ml to 14  mL .
In Australia one  tablespoon ( मापन ईकाई ) is 20  mL .
Harry  कुम्हार is a श्रेणी of सात काल्पनिक novels  written by the British author J. K. Rowling .
the किताबे वृत्तान्त the adventures of a जादूगर , हैरी कुम्हार , और उसके मित्रों रोनाल्ड  Weasley and Hermione Granger , all of whom are students at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry .
The main story arc concerns Harry 's quest to overcome  the अंधेरा जादूगर रब voldemort , जिनकी aims हैं to become अमर , जीतें the wizarding  world , subjugate non-magical people , and destroy all those who stand in his way , especially Harry Potter .
Since the release of the first novel Harry  कुम्हार और the पारस 's स्टोन on 30 जून 1997 , the किताबे have gained immense  popularity , critical acclaim and commercial success worldwide .
The series has also had some share of criticism ,  सहित चिंता लिये the increasingly  dark tone .
, the book series has sold about 450 million  नक़ल , बनाना it the best-selling किताब  series in history , and has been translated into 67 languages .
The last four books consecutively  नियत रिकॉर्ड as the  fastest-selling books in history .
A series of many genres , including fantasy and coming of age ( with elements of mystery , thriller ,  एडवेंचर , और रोमांस ) , it रै अनेक सांस्कृतिक  meanings and references .
According to Rowling , the  प्रमुख थीम is मौत .
There  हैं भी अनेक अन्य विषयवस्तु in the श्रेणी  , such as prejudice and corruption .
The initial major publishers  of the किताबे यहूद bloomsbury  in the United Kingdom and Scholastic Press in the United States .
The books have since been  प्रकाशित by अनेक प्रकाशक  worldwide .
The books , with the seventh book split into two parts , have been made into  an eight-part फिल्मी श्रेणी by warner भाईs. तस्वीरें , the highest-grossing  film series of all time .
The series also originated much tie-in  merchandise , बनाना the हैरी कुम्हार ब्रांड  worth in excess of $ 15 billion .
Also due to  the कामयाबी of the किताबे और films , हैरी कुम्हार रै महरूम प्रयुक्त  for a theme park , The Wizarding World of Harry Potter in Universal Parks & Resorts 's Islands of Adventure .
rs-68 होने  tested at NASA 's Stennis Space Center .
The nearly  पारदर्शी exhaust is due to इस  engine 's exhaust being mostly superheated steam ( water vapor from its propellants , hydrogen and oxygen )
Viking  5c प्रक्षेपास्त्र  engine
A rocket engine , or simply `` rocket '' , is a jet engine  कि उपयोग तभी भंडारित propellant द्रव्यमान  for forming its high speed propulsive jet .
प्रक्षेपास्त्र इंजन हैं प्रतिक्रिया इंजन और obtain  thrust in accordance with Newton 's third law .
Since they need no external material to form their jet ,  प्रक्षेपास्त्र इंजन can be प्रयुक्त लिये spacecraft नोदन  as well as terrestrial uses , such as missiles .
Most  प्रक्षेपास्त्र इंजन हैं आतंरिक  combustion engines , although non-combusting forms also exist .
Rocket engines as a group  have the उच्चतम exhaust गतियाँ , हैं by दूर  the lightest , but are the least propellant efficient of all types of jet engines .
`` ... Baby One More Time ''  is a सोंग  by American recording artist Britney Spears .
It  परोसा as स्पीयर्स 's डेब्यू सिंगल और शीर्षक track  from her debut studio album , ... Baby One More Time ( 1999 ) .
Written by Max Martin and produced by Martin and Rami , `` ... Baby One  अधिक समय '' थी released  on September 30 , 1998 , by Jive Records .
After recording and sending a demo tape with  an अप्रयुक्त सोंग इससे toni braxton , स्पीयर्स हस्ताक्षरित  a multi-album deal with Jive .
`` ... Baby One More Time '' is a teen pop and  dance-pop सोंग कि refers to a लड़की जो संताप  breaking up with her boyfriend .
The song received generally favorable reviews  इससे आलोचकों , जो praised इसके  composition .
`` ... Baby One More Time '' attained global  कामयाबी , reaching क्रमांक एक in प्रत्येक  country it charted .
It also received numerous certifications around  the संसार , और is एक of the best-selling singles of  all time , with over 10 million copies sold .
An accompanying music video , directed by Nigel Dick , portrays Spears as a student from a Catholic high school , who starts to daydream  कि वो is गायन और नाचना around the स्कूल , जबकि watching उसके प्रेम ब्याज  from afar .
The music video was later referenced in the music video of `` If U Seek Amy `` ( 2008 ) , where Spears 's fictional daughter is dressed with a similar schoolgirl outfit while wearing  गुलाबी ribbons in उसके बाल  .
In 2010 , the music video for `` ... Baby One More Time '' was voted the  तीसरा सबसे influential वीडियो in the इतिहास of पॉप  music , in a poll held by Jam ! .
Spears has performed `` ... Baby One More Time '' in a number of live appearances  और in सब of उसके कॉन्सर्ट टुर .
It was the encore of the ... Baby One More Time Tour ( 1999 )  और सपना भीतर a सपना दौरे ( 2001 ) ; स्पीयर्स  also performed remixed versions of the song during the Oops ! ...
I Did It Again World Tour ( 2000 ) ,  the गोमेद होटल दौरे ( 2004 ) , the m+m 's दौरे ( 2007 ) , the  Circus Starring Britney Spears ( 2009 ) , and the Femme Fatale Tour ( 2011 ) .
`` ... Baby One More Time  '' थी मनोनीत लिये a ग्रैमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन मादा पॉप गायन प्रदर्शन  , and has been included in lists by Blender , Rolling Stone and VH1 .
It has been noted  लिये redefining the  sound of late 1990s music .
Spears has named `` ...  baby एक अधिक समय '' as एक of उसके पसंदीदा  songs from her career .
It was also the final song to be  निभाई on the बीबीसी 's म्यूज़िक कार्यक्रम  Top of the Pops .
Cholera is an infection in the small intestine caused by the  bacterium vibrio cholerae  .
The main symptoms  हैं watery अतिसार  and vomiting .
Transmission occurs primarily by drinking water or eating food that has been contaminated by the feces ( waste  उत्पाद ) of an संक्रमित व्यक्ति , सहित एक साथ no apparent लक्षण  .
The severity of the diarrhea and vomiting can  सीसे to रैपिड निर्जलीकरण और electrolyte असंतुलन ,  and death in some cases .
The primary treatment is oral  पुनर्जलीकरण चिकित्सा , typically साथ मौखिक पुनर्जलीकरण समाधान ,  to replace water and electrolytes .
If this is not tolerated or does not  provide सुधार तेज़ पर्याप्त , intravenous  fluids can also be used .
Antibacterial drugs  हैं फायदेमंद in those साथ कठोर  disease to shorten its duration and severity .
Worldwide , it  affects 3–5 लाख लोगों  and causes 100,000–130,000 deaths a year .
Cholera was one of the earliest  infections to be पढ़ाई by epidemiological  methods .
The Picture of Dorian Gray is the only published novel by Oscar Wilde , appearing as the lead story  in lippincott 's मासिक पत्रिका on 20 जून 1890 , मुद्रित as the जुलाई  1890 issue of this magazine .
The  पत्रिका 's सम्पादक feared the स्टोरी थी अभद्र  as submitted , so they censored roughly 500 words , without Wilde 's knowledge , before publication .
But even with that , the story was still greeted with outrage by British reviewers , some of whom suggested  कि वाइल्ड चाहिए be prosecuted on moral grounds , अग्रणी वाइल्ड to बचाव the अनोखा aggressively  in letters to the British press .
Wilde later revised the story for book publication , making substantial alterations , deleting controversial passages , adding new chapters and  सहित an aphoristic preface जिससे रै चूंकि become प्रसिद्ध in इसके अपना सही  .
the amended संस्करण  was published by Ward , Lock and Company in April 1891 .
Some scholars believe that Wilde would today  have चाही us to पढ़ा the संस्करण  he originally submitted to Lippincott 's .
the अनोखा tells of a यंग man नामित डोरियन धूसर  , the subject of a painting by artist Basil Hallward .
Basil is impressed by Dorian 's beauty and becomes  infatuated साथ उसे , believing उसके सौंदर्य is जिम्मेदार  for a new mode in his art .
Dorian meets Lord Henry Wotton , a friend of Basil 's , and becomes  enthralled by रब हेनरी 's संसार दृश्य  .
Espousing a new hedonism , Lord Henry  suggests the तभी बाते लायक pursuing in जीवन  are beauty and fulfilment of the senses .
Realizing that one day his beauty will fade , Dorian ( whimsically ) expresses a desire to  बेचें उसके आत्मा to ensure the पोर्ट्रेट बेसिल रै चित्रित  would age rather than he .
Dorian 's wish is fulfilled , and when he subsequently pursues a life of  विलासिता , the पोर्ट्रेट serves as a स्मरण of the प्रभाव प्रत्येक अधिनियम रै upon उसके आत्मा , साथ प्रत्येक सिन प्रदर्शित  as a disfigurement of his form , or through a sign of aging .
The Picture of Dorian Gray is  माना a कार्य of क्लासिक गोथिक fiction साथ a  strong Faustian theme .
Sári  gábor ( born 6 फ़रवरी 1917 ) , ज्ञात as ज़ा ज़ा गैबर ( ) , is a हंगेरियाई -born अमरीकी अभिनेत्री  who acted in supporting roles in movies , on Broadway , and occasionally on television .
गैबर थी  also a socialite .
She  began उसके स्टेज करियर  in Vienna at age 15 , and was crowned Miss Hungary in 1936 .
She emigrated to the United States in 1941 and became a sought-after  अभिनेत्री साथ `` यूरोपीय फ्लेयर  and style '' , with a personality that `` exuded charm and grace '' .
Her first movie  भूमिका थी as supporting  actress in Lovely to Look At .
She later acted  in we 're  Not Married !
and played one of her few leading roles in Moulin Rouge ( 1952 ) , directed by John Huston , who described  उसके as  a `` creditable '' actress .
besides उसके फिल्मी और टेलीविज़न दिखावे , वो is बेहतरीन ज्ञात लिये having  nine husbands , including hotel magnate Conrad Hilton and actor George Sanders .
She once stated , `` Men have always liked me  और i have सदा liked मेन .
But I like a mannish man , a man who knows how to talk to and  दावत a स्त्री – नहीं बस a man साथ मांसपेशियां  . ''
Bruce Lee ( traditional : 李小龍 ; born Lee Jun-fan ; 27 November 1940 – 20  जुलाई 1973 ) थी a चाइनीज अमरीकी  martial artist , actor , martial arts instructor , philosopher , and filmmaker .
The founder of Jeet  kune do , ली थी the बेटे of  Cantonese opera star Lee Hoi-Chuen .
He is widely considered by commentators , critics , media and other martial artists to  be एक of the सबसे influential  martial artists of all time , and a pop culture icon of the 20th century .
He is often credited  साथ helping to बदलें  the way Asians were presented in American films .
Lee was born in Chinatown , San Francisco on 27 November 1940 to  अभिभावक इससे हांग काँग और थी उठाया in कोलून  with his family until his late teens .
He was introduced to the film  उद्योग by उसके पिता और appeared  in several films as a child actor .
Lee moved to the  संयुक्त राज्य at the आयु of 18 to प्राप्त उसके उच्चतर शिक्षा  , and it was during this time that he began teaching martial arts .
His Hong Kong and Hollywood -produced films elevated the traditional Hong Kong martial arts film to  a नई स्तर of लोकप्रियता और acclaim , sparking a surge of ब्याज in  Chinese martial arts in the West in the 1970s .
The direction and tone of his films changed and influenced  martial कला और martial कला films in हांग  Kong and the rest of the world .
He is noted for his roles in five feature-length films :  lo वेई 's the बिग boss ( 1971 ) और मुट्ठी of फ़्यूरी ( 1972 ) ; रास्ता of the  Dragon ( 1972 ) , directed and written by Lee ; Warner Brothers ' Enter the Dragon ( 1973 ) and The Game of Death ( 1978 ) , both directed by Robert Clouse .
Lee became  an iconic फिगर ज्ञात throughout  the world , particularly among the Chinese , as he portrayed Chinese nationalism in his films .
He initially trained in Wing Chun , but later rejected well-defined martial art styles , favouring instead the use of  तकनीकों इससे विभिन्न स्त्रोत , in the स्पिरिट of उसके निजी martial कला दर्शनशास्त्र , जिससे he उतावले  Jeet Kune Do ( The Way of the Intercepting Fist ) .
Lee held dual  नागरिकता of हांग काँग और  the United States .
He died in Kowloon Tong  on 20 जुलाई 1973 at  age 32 .
Chronic  obstructive pulmonary बीमारी ( copd ) , भी ज्ञात as दीर्घकालिक obstructive फेफड़ों बीमारी ( ठंडा ) , दीर्घकालिक obstructive  airway disease ( COAD ) , chronic airflow limitation ( CAL ) and chronic obstructive respiratory disease ( CORD ) , is the occurrence of chronic bronchitis or emphysema , a pair of commonly co-existing diseases of the lungs in which the airways narrow over time .
This limits airflow to and  इससे the फेफड़े , causing shortness of  breath ( dyspnea ) .
In  नैदानिक अभ्यास , copd is पारिभाषित  by its characteristically low airflow on lung function tests .
In contrast to asthma  , इस limitation is poorly reversible  and usually gets progressively worse over time .
COPD is caused by noxious particles or  गैस , सबसे commonly  from tobacco smoking , which triggers an abnormal inflammatory response in the lung .
the निदान of copd  requires lung function tests .
महत्वपूर्ण प्रबन्धन रणनीति हैं धूम्रपान cessation , vaccinations , पुनर्वास  , and drug therapy ( often using inhalers ) .
कुछ मरीजों go on  to require long-term oxygen therapy or lung transplantation .
विश्वव्यापी , copd क्रमित  as the sixth leading cause of death in 1990 .
It is projected to become the fourth leading cause of death worldwide by 2030 , due to an increase in smoking rates and demographic  परिवर्तन in अनेक देशों  .
COPD is the third leading cause of death in the U.S. , and the economic  बोझ of copd in the u.S. in 2007 थी $ 42.6 अरब  in health care costs and lost productivity .
Annelies `` Anne '' Marie Frank ( , ? , ;  12 जून 1929early कूच 1945 ) is एक of the  most discussed Jewish victims of the Holocaust .
उसके डायरी रै महरूम the  basis for several plays and films .
Born in the city of Frankfurt am Main in Weimar Germany , she lived  सबसे of उसके जीवन in or निकट एम्सटर्डम  , in the Netherlands .
Born a  जर्मनी नेशनल , फ़्रैंक खोया  her citizenship in 1941 .
She  gained अंतरराष्ट्रीय कीर्ति मरणोपरांत  after her diary was published .
It documents her  अनुभवों छुपाना दौरान the जर्मनी occupation  of the Netherlands in World War II .
The Frank family moved from Germany  to एम्सटर्डम in 1933 , the साल the nazis gained  control over Germany .
By the beginning of 1940 , they were trapped in Amsterdam  by the नाजी occupation of  the Netherlands .
As persecutions of the Jewish population increased in  जुलाई 1942 , the परिवार गई into  hiding in the hidden rooms of Anne 's father , Otto Frank 's , office building .
After two years ,  the समूह थी गद्दारी और transported  to concentration camps .
Anne Frank and her sister , Margot , were eventually transferred to the Bergen-Belsen  विशेषज्ञता शिविर , जहाँ वे died of  typhus in March 1945 .
Otto Frank , the only survivor of the family ,  लौटे to एम्सटर्डम बाद the युद्ध to ढूँढें कि ऐनी 's डायरी था महरूम  saved , and his efforts led to its publication in 1947 .
it थी अनूदित इससे इसके  original Dutch and first published in English in 1952 as The Diary of a Young Girl .
It has  चूंकि महरूम अनूदित  into many languages .
The diary , which was given to Anne on  उसके 13th जन्मदिवस  , chronicles her life from 12 June 1942 until 1 August 1944 .
कर्ट  's signature
Kurt Donald  कोबेन ( फ़रवरी 20 , 1967 – अप्रैल 5 , 1994 ) थी an अमरीकी संगीतकार और कलाकार  , best known as the lead singer , guitarist and primary songwriter of the grunge band Nirvana .
Cobain formed Nirvana with Krist Novoselic in Aberdeen , Washington in 1985 and established it as part of the Seattle music scene , having its debut  एल्बम ब्लीच released on the स्वतंत्र रिकार्ड लेबल sub  Pop in 1989 .
After signing with major label DGC Records , the band found breakthrough success with `` Smells Like  टीन स्पिरिट `` इससे इसके दूसरी एल्बम nevermind (  1991 ) .
Following the success of Nevermind , Nirvana  थी labeled `` the फ्लैगशिप बैंड '' of पीढी x , और  Cobain hailed as `` the spokesman of a generation '' .
Cobain , however ,  थी प्रायः असहज और कुंठित , believing उसके संदेश और कलाकारी  vision to have been misinterpreted by the public , with his personal issues often subject to media attention .
He challenged Nirvana 's audience with its final studio  एल्बम in  Utero ( 1993 ) .
During the last years of his life , Cobain  struggled साथ हेरोइन व्यसन , बीमारी  and depression .
He also had difficulty coping with his fame and public image , and the professional  और lifelong निजी pressures surrounding खुद और उसके बीवी , संगीतकार  Courtney Love .
On April 8 , 1994 , Cobain was  मिला मुर्दे at उसके घर in सिएटल , the शिकार  of what was officially ruled a suicide by a self-inflicted shotgun wound to the head .
The circumstances of his death at age 27 have  become a टॉपिक of पब्लिक fascination  and debate .
Since  उनके डेब्यू , निर्वाण , साथ कोबेन as a songwriter  , has sold over 25 million albums in the U.S. , and over 50 million worldwide .
Radial  इंजन समय और  cam mechanism .
Click for full  रेज़ोल्यूशन एनिमेशन  .
Radial  इंजन of a बाईप्लेन
Master  लाठी ( कतरा ) , स्लेव और balances इससे  a two-row , fourteen-cylinder Pratt & Whitney Twin Wasp
The radial engine is a reciprocating type internal combustion engine configuration  in जिससे the सिलेंडर पाइंट outward  from a central crankshaft like the spokes of a wheel .
It resembles a stylized star when  viewed इससे the सामने , और is पुकारा a ``  star engine '' ( German Sternmotor ) in some languages .
The radial configuration was very  commonly प्रयुक्त in वायुयान इंजन पहले  turbine engines became predominant .
The  सुनहरी लड़कियों is an अमरीकी sitcom , निर्मित by सुसान  Harris , that originally aired on NBC from September 13 , 1985 , to May 9 , 1992 .
Starring Bea Arthur , Betty White , Rue McClanahan and Estelle Getty ,  the दिखाएँ centers on चार पुरानी महिलाओं sharing a घर  in Miami , Florida .
it थी उत्पादित by witt/thomas/harris  Productions , in association with Touchstone Television , and Paul Junger Witt , Tony Thomas , and Harris served as the original executive producers .
The Golden Girls received critical acclaim throughout most of its run and won several awards ,  सहित the प्राइमटाइम एमी पुरस्कार लिये बकाया कॉमेडी श्रेणी twice  .
It also won three Golden Globe Awards for Best  टेलीविज़न श्रेणी – musical or  Comedy .
All four stars each received an Emmy Award  throughout the श्रेणी ' चलाएं और था अनेक  nominations .
The series also ranked among the top ten  highest-rated कार्यक्रम  for six out of its seven seasons .
deepwater खुदाई is the प्रक्रम of आयल और गैस  exploration and production in depths of more than 500 feet .
By this  परिभाषा , वहीँ हैं लगभग 600  deepwater wells in the Gulf of Mexico .
It has been economically infeasible for  अनेक सालो , लकिन साथ उठती आयल कीमतें , अधिक कंपनियाँ हैं निवेश  in this area .
Major companies working in this sector include  डायमंड offshore , transocean , और  Baker Hughes .
There are basically two kinds of mobile  deepwater खुदाई rigs : semi-submersible  drilling rigs and drillships .
Drilling can also be performed from a  fixed-position संस्थापना ऐसे as a फ्लोटिंग spar ( मंच  ) or tension-leg platform .
हाल उद्योग विश्लेषण रै अनुमानित कि the कुल  expenditure in the global deepwater infrastructure market will reach $ 145bn in 2011 .
“Not all oil is  accessible on जमीन or in  shallow water .
You can find some  आयल जमा दफ्न गहन अंतर्गत  the ocean floor.” ... Using sonic equipment , oil companies determine the drilling sites most likely to produce oil .
Then  वे उपयोग a मोबाईल offshore खुदाई  unit ( MODU ) to dig the initial well .
Some units are converted into production rigs , meaning they switch from drilling for oil to  capturing आयल एकबार it 's  found .
Most of the time , the oil company will replace the MODU with a more permanent oil  उत्पादन रिग to कैप्चर oil.” ... the मोदू 's जॉब is to ड्रिल bas into the समंदर 's मंजिल to ढूँढें  oil deposits .
The part of the drill that extends below the deck and  through the जल  is called the riser .
The riser allows for drilling  fluids to मूव between the मंजिल और the रिग  .
Engineers lower a  ड्रिल स्ट्रिंग -- a श्रेणी of पाइप  designed to drill down to the oil deposit -- through the riser.”
“The expansion of  deepwater खुदाई is happening  despite accidents in offshore fields ... ”
In 2010 a large explosion  occurred हत्या 11 मजदूर और spilling लाखो  of gallons of oil into the Gulf of Mexico while a BP oil rig was drilling in deep waters .
“ ... Despite the risks , the deepwater drilling trend is spreading in the Mediterranean and off the coast of East  अफ़्रीकी बाद a स्ट्रिंग of विशाल discoveries of प्राकृतिक  gas.”
“The reason for the resumption of such drilling , analyst say , is  continuing ऊँची माँग लिये उर्जा worldwide.”
America needs the oil so it is almost necessary to face the high risks  कि आइये साथ deepwater खुदाई in अनुक्रम लिये अमेरिकी  to continue to carry on their everyday lives .
“The Energy Department recently projected that gulf oil  उत्पादन होता विस्तार इससे इसके 2011 स्तर of 1.3 लाख barrels a दिन , स्टिल nearly a  quarter of total domestic production , to 2 million barrels a day by 2020.”
Deepwater  खुदाई affects the पर्यावरण in दोनो  negative and positive ways .
Although Deepwater drilling rarely  कल्याणकारी आयल spills it  is still a hazardous possible outcome .
Oil spills result in oil  डूब to the नीचे of the समंदर smothering  plant life leaving fish without food and shelter to survive .
On the  अन्य हाथ deepwater खुदाई  effects the environment in a positive ways too .
In time once the  deepwater आयल खूब is नहीं in उपयोग anymore पौधे होगा grow on और  around the well making a cave or cavern like shelter ideal for animals to thrive in .
Deepwater drilling also lets us see the  गहराइयों of the समंदर मंजिल कि  are hardly ever seen .
”Cameras on rovers at the bottom of the  कुएं रिकार्ड फुटेज और लो फ़ोटो of विरल मछली कि हैं in वहीँ  natural habitat , giving scientist a look at animals they rarely seen” ( Chevron Corporation ) . ''
Monica Samille Lewinsky ( born July 23 , 1973 ) is an American woman with whom United States President Bill  क्लिंटन admitted to having था an `` improper संबंध '' जबकि वो worked at the श्वेत हाउस in 1995  and 1996 .
the affair और इसके परखना ( जिससे  included Clinton 's impeachment ) became known as the Lewinsky scandal .
Francis Albert `` Frank '' Sinatra , , (  दिसम्बर 12 , 1915 – may 14 , 1998 ) थी an अमरीकी  singer and film actor .
Beginning his musical career in the swing  era साथ हैरी जेम्स और टॉमी dorsey , सिनात्रा मिला unprecedented  success as a solo artist from the early to mid-1940s after being signed to Columbia Records in 1943 .
Being the idol of the `` bobby soxers `` , he released  उसके पहला एल्बम , the आवाज़ of फ़्रैंक सिनात्रा  in 1946 .
His professional  करियर था stalled by the 1950s , लकिन it थी पुनर्जन्म in 1953 बाद  he won the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor for his performance in From Here to Eternity .
He signed with Capitol Records in 1953 and released several critically lauded albums ( such as In the Wee Small Hours , Songs for Swingin ' Lovers ! , Come Fly  साथ me , तभी the निर्जन और nice 'n ' आसान )  .
Sinatra left Capitol to found his own record label ,  reprise रिकॉर्ड in 1961 ( ढूंढना कामयाबी साथ एल्बम ऐसे as ring-a-ding-ding  ! , Sinatra at the Sands and Francis Albert Sinatra & Antonio Carlos Jobim ) , toured internationally , was a founding member of the Rat Pack and fraternized with celebrities and statesmen , including John F. Kennedy .
Sinatra turned 50 in 1965 , recorded the retrospective September of My Years , starred in the Emmy -winning television special Frank Sinatra : A Man  और उसके म्यूज़िक , और scored हिट्स साथ `` अजनबी in the रात्रि ``  and `` My Way `` .
With sales of his music dwindling and after appearing in  अनेक poorly प्राप्त films , सिनात्रा  retired for the first time in 1971 .
Two years later , however , he came out of retirement and in 1973 recorded several  एल्बम , स्कोरिंग a शीर्ष 40 hit साथ `` ( थीम इससे ) नई  York , New York `` in 1980 .
Using his Las Vegas shows as a home base , he toured both within the United States and internationally ,  जबतक a छोटी समय पहले उसके मौत  in 1998 .
सिनात्रा भी forged  a highly successful career as a film actor .
After winning Best Supporting Actor in 1953 , he also garnered a nomination for  बेहतरीन कर्ता लिये the man साथ the सुनहरी भुजा , और नाजुक acclaim लिये उसके प्रदर्शन in  The Manchurian Candidate .
He also starred in such musicals as High  समाज , pal जॉय , यारों और डॉल और on  the Town .
Sinatra was honored at the Kennedy Center Honors in 1983 and was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom by Ronald  reagan in 1985 और the congressional  Gold Medal in 1997 .
He was the recipient of eleven  ग्रैमी पुरस्कार , सहित  the Grammy Trustees Award , Grammy Legend Award and the Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award .
Sinatra is also one of world’s best-selling artists of  सब समय , having बेची अधिक  than 150 million copies worldwide .
ठेठ  cornhole board
Cornhole , also known as bean bag toss , corn toss , baggo or bags , is a lawn game in  जिससे खिलाड़ी लो turns फेंकना मकई छेद बैग at a उठाया मंच साथ a छेद in the दूर  end .
A bag in the hole scores 3 points , while one on  the मंच स्कोर 1 पाइंट  .
Play continues until a team or  खिलाड़ी पहुँच the  score of 21 .
The American Gold Eagle is an official gold  bullion सिक्का of  the United States .
Authorized under the Gold Bullion Coin Act of 1985 , it was first  released by the  United States Mint in 1986 .
Bikram Yoga is a system of yoga that Bikram Choudhury synthesized from traditional hatha yoga techniques and popularized  शुरूआत in the जल्दी 1970s .
All Bikram Yoga classes run for 90  मिनट्स और consist of the वही श्रेणी  of 26 postures and 2 breathing exercises .
बिक्रम योग is ideally practiced in a रूम heated to  105°F ( ≈ 40.6°C ) with a humidity of 40 % , .
Christopher Michael Massey ( born 26 January 1990 ) is an American actor , comedian and  rapper बेहतरीन ज्ञात लिये अभिनीत as माइकल barret in निकलोडियन टेलीविज़न श्रेणी zoey  101 .
Massey has received many  पुरस्कार और नामांकन सहित a यंग  Artist Award and Emmy Awards nominations .
He is also  ज्ञात लिये appearing in अनेक  commercials in the early 2000s .
A conventional  teaspoon बना of  stainless steel .
A teaspoon is an item of cutlery and/or a  measuring यंत्र , as खूब as a ईकाई of मापन of आवाज़  in some countries and customs .
A fern is any one  or अधिक of a समूह of परिचय 12,000 प्रजाति of  plants belonging to the botanical group known as Pteridophyta .
Unlike mosses , they have xylem and phloem  ( बनाना उन्हें vascular पौधे  ) .
वे have तना , पत्ते , और  roots like other vascular plants .
Ferns reproduce via spores  और have neither बीज nor पुष्प  .
By far the largest group of  ferns is the leptosporangiate ferns , लकिन ferns as पारिभाषित यहाँ ( भी पुकारा  monilophytes ) include horsetails , whisk ferns , marattioid ferns , and ophioglossoid ferns .
The term pteridophyte also refers to ferns and a  few अन्य बीजरहित vascular  plants ( see classification section below ) .
Ferns first appear in the fossil record 360 million years ago in the Carboniferous but many  of the वर्तमान परिवारों और प्रजाति किया नहीं appear जबतक roughly 145 लाख सालो पहले in the जल्दी cretaceous ( बाद flowering पौधे आए to dominate  many environments ) .
Ferns are not of major economic importance ,  लकिन कुछ हैं grown or gathered लिये खाना , as शोभायमान  plants , for remediating contaminated soils , and have been the subject of research for their ability to remove some chemical pollutants from the air .
Some are  significant  weeds .
They also  खेल a भूमिका in mythology , आयुर्विज्ञान  , and art .
Flat  roofs  in Israel
Flat  छत in लॉस  Angeles
A flat roof is  a प्रकार of covering  for a building .
In contrast to the more sloped form of roof , a  चपटा छत is आड़ा or nearly  horizontal .
The slope of a roof is  properly ज्ञात as इसके पिच : roofs  which are nearly flat are known as low-pitch roofs ( as the angle of slope increases , so the pitch is said to increase ) .
Any sheet of material used to cover a flat or low-pitched roof is usually  ज्ञात as a झिल्ली और the प्राथमिक purpose of ये झिल्लियों  is to waterproof the roof area .
Materials that cover flat roofs typically allow the water to  चलाएं बंद इससे a पतला inclination or camber into  a gutter system .
Water from some  चपटा roofs ऐसे as on गार्डन sheds sometimes बहती freely  off the edge of a roof , though gutter systems are of advantage in keeping both walls and foundations dry .
Gutters on smaller roofs often lead  जल सीधे onto the मैदान , or बेहतर , into  a specially made soakaway .
Gutters on larger roofs usually lead water into  the rainwater नाले प्रणाली of कोई निर्मित  up area .
Occasionally flat roofs though are designed to collect  जल in a पूल , प्रायः लिये aesthetic उद्देश्य  , or for rainwater buffering .
चपटा roofs मौजूद सब over the संसार और प्रत्येक  area has its own tradition or preference for materials used .
In warmer climes where rainfall is less and  जमने is असंभावित to occur , अनेक चपटा roofs हैं बस निर्मित of चिनाई or कंक्रीट  and this is good at keeping out the heat of the sun and cheap and easy to build where timber is not readily available .
In areas where the roof could become saturated by rain and leak , or where water soaked into the brickwork could freeze to ice and thus lead to 'blowing ' (  तोड़कर up of the mortar/brickwork/concrete by the विस्तार of बर्फ as it  forms ) these roofs are not suitable .
Traditionally  सबसे चपटा roofs in the  western world make use of tar or more usually tar paper applied over roof decking to keep a building watertight .
The tar or tarpaper is in turn covered in gravel to  रखना the सूर्य 's ऊष्मा , uv किरणें और मौसम बंद it और helps protect it  from cracking or blistering and degradation .
Roof decking is usually of plywood ,  chipboard or osb फलक ( osb = उन्मुख strand फलक  , also known as Sterling board ) of around 18mm thickness .
The tar coating is applied in one or more coats as a hot liquid , heated in a tar kettle , or as sheets of tar impregnated 'paper ' glued down  और sealed साथ at joints by hot तारकोल - एकबार it रै cooled  , the gravel is spread evenly over it .
A main reason for failure of these traditional roofs is ignorance or lack of maintenance where people or events cause the gravel to be moved or removed from the tar or tarpaper waterproofing , thus exposing it  to मौसम और सूर्य whereupon cracking और blistering occurs over समय और आखिरकार  water gets in .
Tarpaper is usually a 'paper ' or fibre  सामग्री soaked or impregnated  in tar .
As gravel can not protect  tarpaper सतहों जहाँ वे वृद्धि खड़ा इससे the छत ऐसे as on मुंडेर दीवारें or upstands , tarpaper विसंगतियाँ हैं उत्पादित साथ  fine gravel applied to the hot tar during the process of manufacture such that a permanent layer of gravel is stuck to it in order to give it ongoing protection .
Tarpapers  vary in विशेषता as करता the कारीगरी  and training of those applying it to produce more or less successful results .
In some micro climates or shaded areas these rather 'basic ' tarpaper roofs can last well in  संबंध to the लागत of सामग्री खरीदें और लागत of लेटा उन्हें , however the लागत of आधुनिक झिल्लियों ऐसे as epdm रै आइये bas over हाल सालो to मेक उन्हें  more and more affordable .
There are now more firms supplying modern alternatives and  वहीँ is generally a growing जागरूकता  of their performance and availability .
If a leak does occur on a flat roof then damage often goes unnoticed for long periods of time during  जिससे जल penetrates और soaks the अलंकार और कोई इन्सुलेशन  and/or structure beneath it .
This can lead to expensive damage from the rot which often develops and if  बाएँ can weaken the छत ढांचा  .
There are also various health risks to people and animals breathing the mould spores : the  गंभीरता of इस स्वास्थ्य रिस्क remains  a debated point .
One problem with maintaining flat roofs is that if water does penetrate the barrier covering ( be it traditional or a modern membrane ) it can travel a long way before  causing दृश्य क्षति or टपकती into a भवन  where it can be seen .
Thus it is not easy  to देखिए जहाँ it is टपकती in  order to repair it .
Once underlying roof decking is soaked it often sags causing a  further संग्रहण or puddling of जल  in that area and the problem worsens .
A CD-ROM ( ) is a  pre-pressed कॉम्पैक्ट डिस्क  which contains data .
The name is an acronym which  स्टैंड लिये `` कॉम्पैक्ट डिस्क read-only मेमोरी ``  .
Computers can read CD-ROMs , but can not  लिखें  on them .
CD-ROMs are popularly used to distribute  कंप्यूटर तन्त्र , सहित वीडियो खेल और मल्टीमीडिया अनुप्रयोग  , though any data can be stored ( up to the capacity limit of a disc ) .
Some  cds , पुकारा उन्नत cds , थाम दोनो कंप्यूटर आंकड़ा और ऑडियो साथ the latter सक्षम of होने निभाई on a cd खिलाड़ी , जबकि  data ( such as software or digital video ) is only usable on a computer ( such as ISO 9660 format PC CD-ROMs ) .
The Yellow Book is the technical  मानक कि defines the स्वरूप  of CD-ROMs .
One of a set of color-bound books that contain the technical  विशेषताएँ लिये सब cd स्वरुप , the पीला किताब , निर्मित by सोनी और फिलिप्स , थी the पहला  extension of Compact Disc Digital Audio .
It adapted the format to  थाम कोई रूप of आंकड़ा  .
Joanne `` Jo '' Rowling ( ) , ( born 31  जुलाई 1965 ) , कलम नाम J. K. रोलिंग , is a अंग्रेजों उपन्यासकार , बेहतरीन ज्ञात  as the author of the Harry Potter fantasy series .
The Potter books have  gained विश्वव्यापी ध्यान , जीती अनेक  awards , and sold more than 400 million copies .
They have become the best-selling book series in  इतिहास , और महरूम the आधार लिये a श्रेणी of  films which has become the highest-grossing film series in history .
Rowling had overall approval on  the स्क्रिप्ट as खूब as maintaining रचनात्मक कंट्रोल by सेवारत as  a producer on the final instalment .
Born  in yate , ग्लॉस्टरशायर , रोलिंग थी working  as a researcher and bilingual secretary for Amnesty International when she conceived the idea for the Harry Potter series on a delayed train from Manchester to London in 1990 .
The  seven-year काल कि followed entailed the मौत of उसके माँ , तलाक  from her first husband and poverty until Rowling finished the first novel in the series , Harry Potter and the Philosopher 's Stone ( 1997 ) .
Rowling  subsequently प्रकाशित 6 sequels—the  last , Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows ( 2007 ) —as well as 3 supplements to the series .
in 2012 , रोलिंग parted साथ उसके एजेंसी और resumed  writing in the form of a tragicomedy novel aimed at adult readership , entitled The Casual Vacancy .
Rowling has said she is currently working on two books—one aimed for adults  , the अन्य लिये children younger than the हैरी कुम्हार दर्शक , और वो expects the  latter to be published first .
Rowling has led a `` rags to riches `` life story , in which she progressed from living on state benefits  to multi-millionaire औकात भीतर पाँच सालो  .
वो is the संयुक्त किंगडम 's best-selling  author since records began , with sales in excess of £238m .
The  2008 संडे टाइम्स समृद्ध सूची अनुमानित रोलिंग 's सौभाग्य at £560 लाख ( $ 798 लाख ) , रैंकिंग  her as the twelfth richest woman in the United Kingdom .
Forbes ranked Rowling as the forty-eighth most powerful celebrity of 2007 ,  और समय पत्रिका नामित उसके as a runner-up लिये इसके 2007 व्यक्ति of the साल , noting the सोशल , moral , और राजनैतिक प्रेरणा  she has given her fans .
In October 2010 , Rowling was named the `` Most Influential Woman in Britain '' by  अग्रणी पत्रिका सम्पादक .
She has become a notable philanthropist , supporting such charities as Comic Relief , One Parent Families , Multiple Sclerosis Society  of ग्रेट ब्रिटेन और lumos ( formerly the children  's High Level Group ) .
auburndale is a नगर  in Polk County , Florida , United States .
the जनसांख्यिकी  was 11,032 at the 2000 census .
According to the U.S Census estimates of 2005 , the  नगर था a जनसांख्यिकी of  12,381 .
It is part of the Lakeland – Winter Haven  महानगर सांख्यिकीय क्षेत्रफल  .
Hurricane Isabel ( 2003 ) as seen from orbit during  expedition 7 of the अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Space Station .
The eye , eyewall , and surrounding rainbands ,  विशेषताएँ of तीव्र cyclones , हैं clearly दृश्य  in this view from space .
A tropical cyclone is a storm system characterized by a low-pressure  बीच घिरी by a सर्पिल  arrangement of thunderstorms that produce strong winds and heavy rain .
Tropical cyclones strengthen when water evaporated from the ocean is released as the saturated air rises , resulting in  संघनन of जल वाष्प contained in the नम एयर  .
They are fueled by a  अलग ऊष्मा यांत्रिकी than अन्य cyclonic windstorms  such as nor'easters , European windstorms , and polar lows .
the characteristic कि separates तीव्र cyclones इससे अन्य cyclonic प्रणालियों is कि  at any height in the atmosphere , the center of a tropical cyclone will be warmer than its surroundings ; a phenomenon called `` warm core `` storm systems .
The term `` tropical '' refers both to the geographical origin of  ये प्रणालियों , जिससे प्रायः रूप in तीव्र regions of the ग्लोब , और to  their formation in maritime tropical air masses .
The term `` cyclone '' refers to such storms '  cyclonic प्रकृति , साथ counterclockwise हवा प्रवाह in the उत्तरी  Hemisphere and clockwise wind flow in the Southern Hemisphere .
The opposite direction of the  हवा प्रवाह is a परिणाम of the कॉरिऑलिस  force .
depending on इसके स्थान और शक्ति , a तीव्र  cyclone is referred to by names such as hurricane ( , ) , typhoon ( ) , tropical storm , cyclonic storm , tropical depression , and simply cyclone .
While  तीव्र cyclones can उपज अत्यधिक शक्तिशाली हवाएँ और मूसलाधार बरसात  , they are also able to produce high waves , damaging storm surge , and tornadoes .
They develop over large bodies of warm water , and lose their strength if  वे मूव over जमीन due to increased सतह घर्षण और घाटा  of the warm ocean as an energy source .
इस is क्यों तटीय regions can प्राप्त significant क्षति इससे a तीव्र चक्रवात ,  while inland regions are relatively safe from receiving strong winds .
Heavy rains , however , can produce significant flooding inland , and storm surges can produce  extensive तटीय बाढ़ up to इससे the तटरेखा  .
Although their effects on human populations can  be विनाशकारी , तीव्र  cyclones can relieve drought conditions .
They also carry heat energy away from the tropics and transport it toward temperate latitudes , which  makes उन्हें an महत्वपूर्ण भाग of the वैश्विक वायुमंडलीय  circulation mechanism .
As a result , tropical cyclones help to maintain  संतुलन in the धरती 's क्षोभमण्डल , और to maintain a अपेक्षाकृत  stable and warm temperature worldwide .
Many tropical  cyclones develop जब the  atmospheric conditions around a weak disturbance in the atmosphere are favorable .
The background environment is modulated by climatological  चक्र और पैटर्न ऐसे as the madden-julian दोलन , el niño-southern  Oscillation , and the Atlantic multidecadal oscillation .
Others  रूप जब अन्य प्रकार of cyclones acquire  tropical characteristics .
Tropical systems are then moved by  परिचालन हवाएँ in the क्षोभमण्डल ; if the  conditions remain favorable , the tropical disturbance intensifies , and can even develop an eye .
On the other end of the spectrum , if the conditions around the system deteriorate or the  तीव्र चक्रवात makes landfall , the प्रणाली weakens और  eventually dissipates .
It  is नहीं संभावित to artificially  induce the dissipation of these systems with current technology .
Kirk Douglas ( born Issur Danielovitch , ; December 9 , 1916 ) is  an अमरीकी स्टेज और  film actor , film producer and author .
His popular films include Out of the Past (  1947 ) , चैंपियन ( 1949 ) , इक्का in the  Hole ( 1951 ) , The Bad and the Beautiful ( 1952 ) , 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea ( 1954 ) , Lust for Life ( 1956 ) , Paths of Glory ( 1957 ) , Gunfight at the O.K . Corral ( 1957 ) , The Vikings ( 1958 ) , Spartacus ( 1960 ) , Lonely Are the Brave ( 1962 ) , Seven Days in May ( 1964 ) , The Heroes of Telemark ( 1965 ) and Tough Guys ( 1986 ) .
He is No.17 on the  अमरीकी फिल्मी संस्थान 's सूची of the महानतम पुरूष अमरीकी  screen legends of all time , making him the highest-ranked living person on the list .
In 1996 , he received the Academy Honorary  पुरस्कार `` लिये 50 सालो as a रचनात्मक और moral फ़ोर्स in the  motion picture community . ''
He is one of the last surviving actors from  हॉलीवुड 's `` सुनहरी  age '' .
Robert Clark `` Bob ''  seger ( born may 6 , 1945 ) is an  American rock and roll singer-songwriter , guitarist and pianist .
As a locally successful Detroit-area artist , he performed and recorded  as bob seger और the पिछला सुना और  Bob Seger System throughout the 1960s .
By the early 1970s , he had  dropped the `` प्रणाली '' इससे उसके रिकार्डिंग और जारी  to strive for broader success with other various bands .
In 1973 , he put together The Silver Bullet Band , a group of Detroit-area musicians , with whom he became most successful on the national  स्तर साथ the एल्बम सजीव गोली , अंकित सजीव साथ the चांदी गोली बैंड in 1975 at cobo हॉल in  Detroit , Michigan .
In 1976 , he achieved a national  ब्रेकआउट साथ the स्टुडियो एल्बम रात्रि  Moves .
On  उसके स्टुडियो एल्बम , he भी worked extensively साथ the alabama-based  Muscle Shoals Rhythm Section , which appeared on several of Seger 's best-selling singles and albums .
A roots rocker with a classic raspy , shouting voice  , seger लिखा और अंकित गीतों कि dealt साथ प्रेम , महिलाओं , blue-collar  themes and was an exemplar of heartland rock .
Seger has recorded many hits , including `` Night  चालें , '' `` फेरे the पेज , '' `` we 've मिला tonight , '' `` विरूद्ध the हवा , '' और shakedown कि थी लिखा लिये बेवर्ली पहाड़ियाँ cop ii और  `` Like a Rock , '' and also co-wrote the Eagles ' number-one hit `` Heartache Tonight . ''
His iconic recording of `` Old Time  चट्टान और फेंकें `` थी नामित एक of the गीतों of the  Century in 2001 .
With a career spanning five decades , Seger  continues to perform और रिकार्ड  today .
Seger was  inducted into the चट्टान और फेंकें हॉल of कीर्ति in 2004 और  the Songwriters Hall of Fame in 2012 .
Richard Milhous Nixon ( January 9 , 1913 – April 22 , 1994 ) was the 37th President of the United States ,  सेवारत इससे 1969 to 1974 , जब he became the तभी अध्यक्ष to इस्तीफा the दफ्तर  .
Nixon had previously served as a Republican U.S.  प्रतिनिधि और सीनेटर इससे कैलिफ़ोर्निया और as  the 36th Vice President of the United States from 1953 to 1961 .
Nixon  थी born in yorba  Linda , California .
He graduated from Whittier College in  1934 और ड्यूक विश्वविद्यालयों  School of Law in 1937 , returning to California to practice law .
He and his wife , Pat Nixon , moved to Washington to work  लिये the संघीय सरकारी  in 1942 .
he subsequently परोसा  in the United States Navy during World War II .
Nixon was  निर्वाचित in कैलिफ़ोर्निया to the हाउस of प्रतिनिधि in 1946 और to the  Senate in 1950 .
His pursuit of the Alger Hiss case established his  प्रतिष्ठा as a अग्रणी  anti-communist , and elevated him to national prominence .
He was  the कार्यशील mate of ड्वाइट D.  Eisenhower , the Republican Party presidential nominee in the 1952 election .
Nixon  परोसा लिये आठ सालो as वाइस  president .
He waged an unsuccessful presidential campaign in  1960 , narrowly खोने to जॉन F. कैनेडी , और खोया a रेस  for Governor of California in 1962 .
In 1968 , he ran again for the  प्रेसिडेंसी और थी  elected .
Although Nixon initially escalated America 's involvement in the Vietnam War  , he subsequently ended u.S.  involvement in 1973 .
Nixon 's visit to the People 's Republic of China in 1972 opened diplomatic relations between the two  राष्ट्र , और he initiated détente और the anti-ballistic  Missile Treaty with the Soviet Union the same year .
Domestically , his administration generally  embraced नीतियों कि transferred शक्ति इससे वॉशिंगटन  to the states .
Among other  बाते , he शुभारम्भ पहलों to लड़ो कर्कट और illegal दवाएँ , imposed मजदूरी  and price controls , enforced desegregation of some Southern schools , and established the Environmental Protection Agency .
Though he presided over the lunar  अवतरण शुरूआत साथ अपोलो  11 , he scaled back manned space exploration .
He was  re-elected by a  landslide in 1972 .
Nixon 's second term saw an Arab oil embargo , the resignation of his vice president , Spiro Agnew , and a continuing series of revelations about  the वाटरगेट कांड और अन्य misconduct by सदस्यों of the प्रशासन  .
The scandal escalated , costing Nixon much of his political support  , और on अगस्त 9 , 1974 , he resigned in the फेस  of almost certain impeachment and removal from office .
After his resignation , he  controversially प्राप्त a pardon जारी by उसके successor  , Gerald Ford .
In  रिटायरमेंट , निक्सन 's कार्य as an elder statesman  , authoring several books and undertaking many foreign trips , helped to rehabilitate his public image .
He suffered a  debilitating स्ट्रोक on अप्रैल 18 ,  1994 , and died four days later at the age of 81 .
{ { Infobox  सीनेटर
The  डोमिनिकन गणतंत्र annexation सन्धि caused कड़वा contention  between President Grant and Sen. Sumner .
ब्रैडी  1869 ] ]
Sen. Sumner , opposed to  अमरीकी साम्राज्यवाद in the caribbean और fearful कि annexation होता सीसे to the conquest of the neighboring  black republic of Haiti , became convinced that corruption lay behind the treaty , and that men close to the president shared in the corruption .
As chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations  कमेटी , sen. sumner initially withheld उसके राय on the सन्धि on जनवरी  18 , 1870 .
Sen. Sumner had been leaked  सूचना इससे सहायक सचिव of राज्य , bancroft डेविस , कि  U.S . Naval ships were being used to protect President Báez .
Sen. Sumner 's committee voted against annexation and at Sen. Sumner’s suggestion and quite possibly to save the party from  an भद्दा लड़ो or the अध्यक्ष इससे शर्मिंदगी , the सीनेट  held its debate of the treaty behind closed doors in executive session .
अध्यक्ष ग्रान्ट persisted और भेजा संदेश to कॉंग्रेस  in favor of annexation on March 14 , 1870 , and May 31 , 1870 .
In closed session , Sen. Sumner spoke out against the treaty ;  warnng कि वहीँ होता be परेशानी साथ the विदेशी  nationals , noting the chronic rebellion that took place on the island , and the risk that the independence of Haiti , recognized by the United States in 1862 , would be lost .
Sumner stated that Grant 's use of the U.S. Navy as a  प्रोटेक्टोरेट थी a उल्लंघन of अंतरराष्ट्रीय  law and unconstitutional .
Finally , on June 30 , 1870 the treaty was voted on by the Senate and  विफल to लाभ the जरूरी 2/3 बहुमत लिये सन्धि ड्योढ़ी  .
The following day , President Grant , feeling betrayed by Sen. Sumner , retaliated  by ordering  the dismissal of Sumner’s close friend J. Lothrop Motley , Ambassador to Britain .
By autumn , Sumner 's personal hostility to the president was public knowledge , and he blamed the Secretary of State for failing to  have resigned , बल्कि than let ग्रान्ट have  his way .
The two  मेन , मित्रों जबतक तब  , cooled into bitter enemies .
In December , 1870 , still fearful that Grant  meant to acquire सेंटो डोमिंगो somehow , sumner दिया a fiercely नाजुक वाक accusing the अध्यक्ष  of usurpation and Babcock of unethical conduct .
Already , President Grant , supported by his Secretary of State Hamilton Fish , had initiated a campaign to depose Sumner  इससे the अध्यक्षता of the सीनेट विदेशी संबंध कमेटी  .
Although Sumner stated he was an `` Administration man '' , in addition to having stopped Grant 's Dominican Republic treaty attempt , Sumner had defeated Grant 's full repeal of the Tenure of Office  अधिनियम , अवरोधित ग्रान्ट 's नामांकन of सिकंदर स्टीवर्ट to u.S. सचिव of राजकोष , और महरूम a निरंतर harassing फ़ोर्स pushing पुनर्निर्माण नीतियों  faster than Grant had been willing to go .
Grant resented Sumner 's  बड़प्पन of manner  , as well .
Told once that  sumner किया नहीं मानना in the बाइबल ,  the president is supposed to have said that he was not surprised : `` he did n't write it . ''
As the rift between Grant  और sumner increased ,  Sumner’s health began to decline .
When the 42nd U.S. Congress convened  on कूच 4 , 1871 , सीनेटरों संबद्ध साथ अध्यक्ष ग्रान्ट , ज्ञात  as ‘’New Radicals’’ voted to oust Sen. Sumner from the Senate Foreign Relations Committee chairmanship .
Business ethics ( also corporate ethics ) is a form of applied ethics or professional ethics that examines  नैतिक सिद्धान्त और moral  or ethical problems that arise in a business environment .
It applies  to सब पहलुओं of कारोबार conduct  and is relevant to the conduct of individuals and entire organizations .
Business ethics has  दोनो normative और  descriptive dimensions .
As a  कॉरपोरेट अभ्यास और a करियर  specialization , the field is primarily normative .
लड attempting to समझे  business behavior employ descriptive methods .
The range and quantity of business ethical issues reflects the  बातचीत of profit-maximizing बर्ताव साथ non-economic चिंताएं  .
Interest in business ethics accelerated dramatically during the 1980s and 1990s , both within  प्रमुख corporations और भीतर academia  .
For example , today most major corporations promote their commitment to  non-economic मान अंतर्गत headings ऐसे as आचार कोड  and social responsibility charters .
Adam  स्मिथ कहा , `` लोगों of the वही व्यापार seldom मिलें साथ , भी लिये merriment और diversion  , but the conversation ends in a conspiracy against the public , or in some contrivance to raise prices . ''
Governments use laws and regulations to point business  बर्ताव in कया वे perceive to  be beneficial directions .
Ethics  implicitly regulates क्षेत्रों और विवरण of बर्ताव  that lie beyond governmental control .
The emergence of large corporations with limited relationships and sensitivity to the communities in which they  operate त्वरित the विकास of औपचारिक आचार  regimes .
A  बर्न is a प्रकार of चोट to flesh or स्किन caused by ऊष्मा , विद्युत  , chemicals , friction , or radiation .
Most burns affect only the superficial skin ( known as superficial or first degree )  or extend into the deeper स्किन लकिन do नहीं involve the पूरा मोटाई  of the skin ( known as partial thickness or second degree ) .
Rarely all layers of the skin or deeper tissues , such as  मांसपेशी or अस्थि can be घायल in जिससे मामला the बर्न is either पूरा मोटाई  ( third degree ) or fourth degree .
The  उपचार जरूरी depends on  the severity of the burn .
Superficial burns maybe managed with  छोटी अधिक than सरल पीड़ा हत्यारे जबकि प्रमुख burns may आवश्यकता prolonged  treatment in specialized burn centers .
Cooling  साथ tap जल may सहायता  pain and decrease damage however if exposure is prolonged it may result in low body temperature .
आंशिक मोटाई burns may आवश्यकता  cleaning with soap and water followed by dressings .
Blisters  चाहिए typically  be left unbroken .
Full thickness burns usually require surgical treatments such as skin  कलम और extensive burns प्रायः आवश्यकता विशाल राशि of  intravenous fluids .
The most  आम जटिलताओं of burns  are related to infection .
While large  burns can be fatal , आधुनिक उपचार विकसित in the पिछला 50 सालो  have significantly improved the outcomes , especially in children and young adults .
Globally about 11 million people seek medical treatment and 300,000  लोगों die इससे  burns .
In the United States , of those admitted to a burn  बीच , लगभग 4 % die इससे उनके चोटों  .
The long term outcome is  primarily सम्बन्धित  to the size of burn and the age of the person effected .
The Atlantic Ocean ,  नहीं सहित  Arctic and Antarctic regions
This video was taken by the crew of Expedition 29 on  फलक the iss  .
The pass  starts इससे बस north-east of the द्वीप of  Newfoundland over the North Atlantic Ocean to central Africa , over South Sudan .
The Atlantic Ocean is the second-largest  of the संसार 's oceanic विभाजन  .
With a total area of about ,  it कवर लगभग 20 प्रतिशत of the धरती 's सतह  and about 29 percent of its water surface area .
The first part of its name refers to Atlas of Greek  mythology , बनाना the अटलांटिक the `` समुद्र  of Atlas '' .
The oldest known mention of `` Atlantic '' is in The Histories of Herodotus around 450 BC ( Hdt . 1.202.4 ) : Atlantis thalassa (  यूनानी : ἀτλαντὶς θάλασσα ; अंग्रेज़ी : समुद्र of  Atlas ) .
The term Ethiopic Ocean , derived from Ethiopia , was applied  to the दक्षिणी अटलांटिक as लेट as the  mid-19th century .
Before Europeans discovered other oceans , the term ``  समंदर '' itself थी synonymous साथ the waters परे the जलसन्धि  of Gibraltar that we now know as the Atlantic .
The early Greeks believed  इस समंदर to be a gigantic  river encircling the world .
the अटलांटिक समंदर occupies an elongated , s-shaped  basin extending longitudinally between Eurasia and Africa to the east , and the Americas to the west .
As one component of the interconnected global ocean , it is connected in the north to the Arctic Ocean (  जिससे is sometimes माना a समुद्र of the अटलांटिक ) , to the प्रशांत समंदर in the  southwest , the Indian Ocean in the southeast , and the Southern Ocean in the south .
( Other definitions describe the Atlantic as  extending southward to अंटार्कटिक  . )
The equator subdivides  it into the उत्तर अटलांटिक  Ocean and South Atlantic Ocean .
Due to their long-term persistence , and the need for a unique  पहचानकर्ता in issuing forecasts और चेतावनियाँ , तीव्र cyclones और उपोष्ण cyclones  are given names according to policy ( see Tropical cyclone naming ) .
The following are lists from which these tropical and  उपोष्ण चक्रवात names हैं निकला  .
White light is dispersed by a  प्रिज़्म into the रंगों of the ऑप्टिकल  spectrum .
The visible spectrum is the portion of the  इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक वर्णक्रम कि is दृश्य to (  can be detected by ) the human eye .
Electromagnetic radiation in  इस दायरा of wavelengths  is called visible light or simply light .
A typical human eye will respond to  wavelengths इससे परिचय  390 to 700 nm .
In  शर्तें of आवृत्ति  , this corresponds to a band in the vicinity of 430–790 THz .
A light-adapted eye generally has its maximum  संवेदनशीलता at around 555 nm (  540 THz ) , in the green region of the optical spectrum ( see : luminosity function ) .
The spectrum does not , however , contain all the  रंगों कि the इंसान आँखें और  brain can distinguish .
Unsaturated colors such as pink , or purple  विसंगतियाँ ऐसे as magenta , हैं अनुपस्थित , लिये उदाहरण , क्युकी  they can be made only by a mix of multiple wavelengths .
रंगों containing तभी  one wavelength are also called pure colors .
Visible wavelengths pass through the `` optical window `` , the region of the  इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक वर्णक्रम जिससे allows wavelengths to pass largely unattenuated through the  Earth 's atmosphere .
An example of this phenomenon is that clean air scatters blue  लाइट अधिक than रेड wavelengths , और so the  midday sky appears blue .
The optical window is  भी पुकारा the दृश्य खिड़की क्युकी  it overlaps the human visible response spectrum .
The near infrared ( NIR ) window lies just out of the  इंसान दृष्टि , as खूब as the मीडियम wavelength ir ( mwir ) खिड़की और  the Long Wavelength or Far Infrared ( LWIR or FIR ) window though other animals may experience them .
Many species can see light with  बारंबारता बाहर the `` दृश्य वर्णक्रम , ''  which is defined in terms of human vision .
मधुमक्खियों और अनेक अन्य कीट can detect  ultraviolet light , which helps them find nectar in flowers .
संयंत्र प्रजाति कि निर्भर on कीट परागण may owe reproductive  success to their appearance in ultraviolet light , rather than how colorful they appear to humans .
Birds , too , can see into the ultraviolet ( 300–400 nm ) , and  कुछ have sex-dependent markings on उनके  plumage that are visible only in the ultraviolet range .
Many animals that can see into the ultraviolet range ,  however , can नहीं देखिए रेड लाइट  or any other reddish wavelengths .
Bees ' visible spectrum ends at about 590nm , just before  the नारंगी wavelengths  start .
Birds , however , can see some red wavelengths , but  नहीं as अनेक  as humans .
Zebras ( or  ) हैं अनेक प्रजाति of अफ़्रीकी equids ( घोड़ा परिवार  ) united by their distinctive black and white stripes .
Their stripes come in different patterns ,  अद्वितीय to प्रत्येक व्यक्तिगत  .
They are generally social animals that live in  छोटी harems to विशाल  herds .
Unlike their closest relatives , horses and  asses , zebras have never  been truly domesticated .
There are three species of  zebras : the मैदान जेब्रा , the  Grévy 's zebra and the mountain zebra .
The plains zebra and the mountain zebra belong to the subgenus Hippotigris , but Grévy 's zebra is the sole  प्रजाति of subgenus  Dolichohippus .
The latter  resembles an गधा , to जिससे it is closely सम्बन्धित  , while the former two are more horse-like .
All three belong to the genus  equus , साथ साथ  other living equids .
The unique stripes of zebras make them one of the  पशु  most familiar to people .
They occur in a variety of habitats , such as grasslands ,  savannas , वुडलैंड्स , thorny scrublands , kyu  , and coastal hills .
However , various  anthropogenic कारकों have था a कठोर  impact on zebra populations , in particular hunting for skins and habitat destruction .
Grévy  's जेब्रा और  the mountain zebra are endangered .
While plains zebras are much more plentiful , one subspecies , the quagga , became extinct in the late 19th century – though there is currently a plan , called the  quagga प्रोजेक्ट , कि aims to नस्ल zebras कि हैं phenotypically समान to the quagga in a  process called breeding back .
Barry White ,  born बैरी यूजीन कार्टर ( – )  , was an American composer and singer-songwriter .
A two-time Grammy Award -winner known for his distinctive bass voice and romantic image , White 's greatest success came in the 1970s as a solo singer and with the Love Unlimited Orchestra , crafting many enduring soul , funk , and disco songs such as his two biggest  हिट्स , `` तुम 're the पहला , the पिछला , my सबकुछ `` और `` ca n't मिलेंगी पर्याप्त  of Your Love , Babe . ''
Along with  इसहाक़ हेज़ , श्वेत is  considered by Allmusic.com as a pioneer of disco music in the early 1970s .
दौरान the कोर्स of उसके करियर in the म्यूज़िक कारोबार , श्वेत हासिल  106 gold albums worldwide , 41 of which also attained platinum status .
White had 20 gold and 10 platinum singles , with worldwide sales in excess of 100 million , according to  आलोचकों ed होगन और वेड kergan  .
His influences  शामिल रेव . जेम्स क्लीवलैंड , रे चार्ल्स  , Aretha Franklin plus Motown artists The Supremes , The Four Tops and Marvin Gaye .
Angelina Jolie ( ,  born एंजेलीना जोली वोइट ; जून 4 , 1975 ) is an अमरीकी  actress , film director , and screenwriter .
She has  प्राप्त an अकादमी पुरस्कार , दो स्क्रीन अभिनेताओं  Guild Awards , and three Golden Globe Awards , and was named Hollywood 's highest-paid actress by Forbes in 2009 and 2011 .
Jolie promotes humanitarian causes , and is noted for her work with refugees as a Special Envoy and former Goodwill Ambassador for  the संयुक्त राष्ट्र ऊँची कमिश्नर लिये शरणार्थियों  ( UNHCR ) .
She has often been cited as the world 's `` most  खूबसूरत '' स्त्री , a शीर्षक लिये जिससे वो  has received substantial media attention .
Jolie made her screen debut as a child alongside her  पिता jon वोइट in lookin ' to मिलेंगी आउट ( 1982 ) , लकिन उसके फिल्मी करियर began in  earnest a decade later with the low-budget production Cyborg 2 ( 1993 ) .
उसके पहला अग्रणी भूमिका  in a major film was in the cyber-thriller Hackers ( 1995 ) .
वो स्ट्रक्चर in the critically acclaimed biographical टेलीविज़न films जार्ज वालेस  ( 1997 ) and Gia ( 1998 ) , and won an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress for her performance in the drama Girl , Interrupted ( 1999 ) .
Jolie achieved wide  कीर्ति बाद उसके portrayal of वीडियो खेल नायिका लारा क्रॉफ्ट in लारा क्रॉफ्ट  : Tomb Raider ( 2001 ) , and established herself among the highest-paid actresses in Hollywood with the sequel The Cradle of Life ( 2003 ) .
She continued her action star career with Mr. & Mrs. Smith ( 2005 ) and Wanted ( 2008 ) —her biggest non-animated  वाणिज्यिक सफलताओं to date—and प्राप्त further नाजुक acclaim लिये उसके प्रदर्शन in the dramas a mighty दिल ( 2007 ) और changeling  ( 2008 ) , which earned her a nomination for an Academy Award for Best Actress .
Jolie made her directorial debut with the  wartime नाटक in the  Land of Blood and Honey ( 2011 ) .
Divorced from actors Jonny Lee Miller and Billy Bob Thornton , Jolie now  जीवनदान साथ कर्ता ब्रैड pitt , in a संबंध notable लिये  fervent media attention .
Jolie and Pitt have three biological children and  तीन अपनाया  children .
A natural arch produced by the erosion of differentially  weathered चट्टान in jebel kharaz  , Jordan
अपरदन is the प्रक्रम by जिससे मृदा और चट्टान हैं removed इससे the धरती 's सतह by exogenetic  processes such as wind or water flow , and then transported and deposited in other locations .
While erosion is a natural process , human  क्रियाएँ have increased by 10-40 टाइम्स  the rate at which erosion is occurring globally .
excessive अपरदन कल्याणकारी समस्याएं ऐसे as मरुस्थलीकरण , decreases in agricultural उत्पादकता due to जमीन degradation  , sedimentation of waterways , and ecological collapse due to loss of the nutrient rich upper soil layers .
Water and wind erosion are now the two primary causes  of जमीन degradation ; संयुक्त , वे हैं जिम्मेदार लिये 84 % of degraded acreage , बनाना excessive  erosion one of the most significant global environmental problems .
औद्योगिक कृषि , वनों , सड़कें , anthropogenic  climate change and urban sprawl are amongst the most significant human activities in regard to their effect on stimulating erosion .
However , there are many available alternative land use practices that can  काटना or सीमा अपरदन , ऐसे as छत -building , no-till कृषि , और revegetation  of denuded soils .
Jersey Shore is an American reality television series which ran on MTV from December 3 , 2009 to December 20  , 2012 in the संयुक्त  States .
The  श्रेणी फ़ॉलो the जीवनदान of आठ housemates बिता उनके गर्मियाँ  at the Jersey Shore in the U.S. state of New Jersey .
Season 2 followed the cast escaping the cold  पूर्वोत्तर शीत to मियामी  Beach , with Season 3 returning to the Jersey Shore .
the चौथी ऋतु ,  filmed in Italy , premiered on August 4 , 2011 .
The  दिखाएँ लौटे लिये a पांचवां  season , at Seaside Heights on January 5 , 2012 .
The fifth  ऋतु finale aired  on March 15 , 2012 .
On March 19 , 2012 , MTV confirmed that the  श्रेणी होता वापसी लिये उनके छठे  season .
On August 30 , 2012 , MTV announced that the series will end  बाद the छठे  season , which premiered on October 4 .
The  श्रेणी finale aired on  December 20 , 2012 .
The show debuted amid large amounts of controversy regarding the use of the words `` Guido / Guidette , '' portrayals of Italian-American stereotypes , and scrutiny from  स्थानीय क्युकी the डाल सदस्यों यहूद नहीं निवासियों of  the area .
The series garnered record ratings for MTV ,  बनाना it the संजाल 's सबसे viewed  series telecast ever .
The series ' cast have also been  credited साथ introducing अद्वितीय lexicon और वाक्यांश  into American popular culture .
The University of Chicago and the University of Oklahoma are among the educational institutions that have  था वर्ग or सम्मेलनों परिचय  the show .
In 2010 , the cast of Jersey Shore was named on Barbara Walters ' 10 Most Fascinating People  सूची , और the श्रेणी रै चूंकि महरूम exported to दर्जनों of देशों विश्वव्यापी  .
There are several remakes of the show in other countries , with two set in the United Kingdom ; the well known Geordie Shore  , नियत in न्यूकैसल upon tyne ,  England .
The other is The Valleys , the  वेल्श समतुल्य , जिससे  is filmed and set in Cardiff .
The only other official remake of the show is  gandía shore  , set in Gandía , Spain .
सही
United States territory is any extent of region under the jurisdiction of the federal government of  the संयुक्त राज्य , सहित सब waters ( around आइलैंड्स or महाद्वीपीय tracts ) और सब u.s  . Naval vessels .
The  संयुक्त राज्य रै traditionally  proclaimed the sovereign rights for exploring , exploiting , conserving , and managing its territory .
This extent of territory is all the area belonging to , and under the dominion of , the United States federal government ( which includes tracts lying at a  अलहदा इससे the देश ) लिये प्रशासनिक  and other purposes .
The United States total  territory शामिल a उपसमुच्चय of  political divisions .
The U.S. government is a government with  प्रतिनिधित्व शक्तियां अंतर्गत the संयुक्त राज्य  Constitution .
`` The powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution  , nor निषिद्ध by it to the राज्य  , are reserved to the States respectively , or to the people '' by the Tenth Amendment .
Terminator 3 : Rise of the Machines ( commonly abbreviated as T3 ) is a 2003 science fiction action film directed by Jonathan Mostow and starring Arnold Schwarzenegger ,  उपनाम stahl , क्लेयर danes  and Kristanna Loken .
It is the second sequel to The  टर्मिनेटर (  1984 ) .
After Skynet fails to kill Sarah Connor  पहले उसके बेटे is born और to मार जॉन खुद as a चाइल्ड , it भेजना वापस  another Terminator , the T-X , in an attempt to wipe out as many Resistance officers as possible .
This includes John 's future wife , but not John  खुद as उसके whereabouts हैं  unknown to Skynet .
John 's life is placed in danger when  the t-x accidentally पाता उसे  .
A  cord of  wood
The cord is a  ईकाई of माप of शुष्क आवाज़ प्रयुक्त in कनाडा  and the United States to measure firewood and pulpwood .
A cord is the amount of wood that ,  जब `` क्रमित और खूब stowed '' ( arranged so टुकड़े हैं लकीर , समानांतर  , touching and compact ) , occupies a volume of .
This corresponds to a well  stacked woodpile ऊँची , long , और गहन ; or कोई अन्य  arrangement of linear measurements that yields the same volume .
The name cord probably  आता इससे the उपयोग  of a cord or string to measure it .
The , is an 8-bit handheld  वीडियो खेल यंत्र विकसित  and manufactured by Nintendo .
It was released in Japan  on , in उत्तर अमेरिका in ,  and in Europe on .
It is the first handheld console in the Game Boy line , and was created by Gunpei Yokoi and Nintendo  शोध & विकास 1 —the वही स्टाफ जो था designed the खेल & देखें श्रेणी as खूब as अनेक  popular games for the Nintendo Entertainment System .
Redesigned versions were released in 1996 and 1998 , in the form of Game Boy Pocket , and  खेल लड़के लाइट ( जापानी तभी ) , क्रमशः  .
The Game Boy is Nintendo 's second handheld system following the  खेल & देखें श्रेणी introduced in , और it संयुक्त सुविधाएँ इससे दोनो the निन्टेंडो  Entertainment System and Game & Watch .
It was originally bundled  साथ the पहेली  game Tetris .
As part of the fourth generation of gaming , the Game Boy competed with the  sega खेल गियर , atari लिंक्स , और the turboexpress  .
Despite these other technologically  श्रेष्ठ हैंडहेल्ड consoles , the खेल  Boy was a tremendous success .
The Game  लड़के और इसके successor , the खेल लड़के रंग  , have both combined sold 118.69 million units worldwide .
Upon its release in the United States ,  it बेची इसके संपूर्ण शिपमेंट of एक  million units within weeks .
The World Trade Center is a complex  of इमारतें अंतर्गत निर्माण in निम्नतर मैनहटन , नई यॉर्क नगर ,  United States , replacing an earlier complex of seven buildings with the same name on the same site .
The original World Trade Center  प्रदर्शित लैंडमार्क जुड़वा मीनारें , जिससे खोली on अप्रैल 4 , 1973 और यहूद नष्ट  in the September 11 attacks of 2001 , along with 7 World Trade Center .
The other buildings in the complex were  क्षतिग्रस्त in the हमले , और उनके तबाह यहूद आखिरकार demolished  .
The site is being rebuilt with five new skyscrapers  और a मेमोरियल to those मारे in the हमले  .
, only one  skyscraper रै महरूम समाप्त ; the अन्य चार हैं अपेक्षित  to be completed before 2020 .
One World Trade Center will be the lead building for the  नई जटिल , reaching  more than 100 stories at its completion .
It became the tallest building in New  यॉर्क नगर on अप्रैल 30 , 2012 , और is अपेक्षित  to be finished by 2013 .
A sixth tower  is प्रतीक्षारत  confirmation .
At the time of their completion , the original 1 World Trade Center ( the North Tower  ) और 2 संसार व्यापार बीच ( the दक्षिण मीनार ) , ज्ञात collectively as the `` जुड़वा मीनारें '' , यहूद the tallest  buildings in the world .
The other buildings included  3 wtc ( the मैरियट  World Trade Center ) , 4 WTC , 5 WTC , 6 WTC , and 7 WTC .
सब of ये इमारतें  were built between 1975 and 1985 .
The cost for the  निर्माण थी $ 400  million ( $ in dollars ) .
The complex was  स्तिथ in the दिल of नई यॉर्क नगर 's  downtown financial district and contained 13.4 million square feet ( 1.24 million m2 ) of office space .
The World Trade Center experienced a fire on , 1975 ,  a bombing on ,  1993 and a robbery on , 1998 .
In  1998 , the बंदरगाहों प्राधिकार decided to privatize the संसार  Trade Center , leasing the buildings to a private company to manage , and awarded the lease to Silverstein Properties in .
On the morning of September 11 , 2001 ,  al-qaeda -संबद्धd hijackers उड़ाया दो बोइंग 767 jets into the जटिल  , one into each tower , in a coordinated terrorist attack .
After burning for 56 minutes , the South Tower ( 2 ) collapsed , followed a half-hour later by the North Tower (  1 ) , साथ the हमले on the संसार व्यापार बीच  resulting in 2,753 deaths .
Falling debris from the towers , combined with fires  कि the मलबा initiated in अनेक surrounding इमारतें , led to the आंशिक or पूरा पतन of सब the अन्य इमारतें  in the complex and caused catastrophic damage to ten other large structures in the surrounding area .
The  प्रक्रम of क्लीनअप और रिकवरी at the संसार व्यापार  Center site took eight months .
Over the following years  , योजनाएँ लिये a rebuilt संसार व्यापार बीच  took form .
The first new  भवन at the साईट थी 7 संसार  Trade Center , which opened in .
The Lower Manhattan Development Corporation ( LMDC ) , established  in to oversee the पुनर्निर्माण प्रक्रम , व्यवस्थित प्रतियोगिताओं to चुनें a साईट योजना  and memorial design .
Memory Foundations , designed by Daniel Libeskind , was selected as the master  योजना , लकिन इस गई through substantial परिवर्तन  in design .
The new World Trade Center complex will include  एक संसार व्यापार बीच , तीन अन्य high-rise दफ्तर मीनारें , और the नेशनल  September 11 Memorial & Museum .
San  जिबरील  Mountains
San Bernardino Mountains  , साथ mt . सैन gorgonio in the  foreground and Big Bear Lake in the background .
The Transverse Ranges are a group of mountain ranges of  दक्षिणी कैलिफ़ोर्निया , in the प्रशांत coast सीमाएँ physiographic  region in North America .
The Transverse Ranges begin at the southern end  of the कैलिफ़ोर्निया coast सीमाएँ और झूठ between  Santa Barbara and San Diego counties .
They derive the name Transverse Ranges due to their East-West orientation , making them transverse to  the सामान्य north-south अभिविन्यास of सबसे of कैलिफ़ोर्निया  's coastal mountains .
Periodic table  साथ इलेक्ट्रॉन शेल
An electron shell may be  विचार of as an कक्षा followed  by electrons around an atom 's nucleus .
The closest shell to the nucleus is called the `` 1 shell '' ( also  पुकारा `` k शेल '' ) , followed by the `` 2 शेल  '' ( or `` L shell '' ) , then the `` 3 shell '' ( or `` M shell '' ) , and so on farther and farther from the nucleus .
The shell letters K , L , M , ... , used in the  x-ray संकेतन , हैं वर्णमाला  .
Each shell can contain only a fixed number of electrons : The 1st shell can hold up to  दो electrons , the 2nd शेल can थाम up to आठ electrons , the  3rd shell can hold up to 18 , and 4th shell can hold up to 32 and so on .
Since electrons are electrically attracted to the nucleus , an atom 's electrons  होगा generally occupy बाहरी शेल तभी if the अधिक भीतरी  shells have already been completely filled by other electrons .
However , this is not a strict requirement : Atoms  may have दो or भी तीन अधूरी  outer shells .
( See Madelung rule for  अधिक विवरण  . )
For an  स्पष्टीकरण of क्यों electrons  exist in these shells see electron configuration .
The electrons in the outermost occupied shell ( or  शेल ) determine the रासायनिक गुण  of the atom ; it is called the valence shell .
Each shell consists of one or more subshells , and  प्रत्येक subshell consists of एक or  more atomic orbitals .
vickie lynn मार्शल ( née होगन ; नवम्बर 28 , 1967 – फ़रवरी  8 , 2007 ) , known by her moniker Anna Nicole Smith , was an American model , actress , and television personality .
Smith first gained  लोकप्रियता in प्लेबॉय , बनने the 1993 संगिनी  of the Year .
She modeled for clothing companies ,  सहित अंदाज़ा जीन्स और लेन  Bryant .
स्मिथ dropped आउट  of high school and was married in 1985 .
Her highly publicized second marriage to oil business mogul , J. Howard Marshall , 62 years her senior ,  resulted in अटकलें कि वो शादीशुदा the octogenarian  for his money , which she denied .
following मार्शल 's  death , Smith began a lengthy legal battle over a share of his estate .
Her case , Marshall v. Marshall , reached the U.S.  परम् अदालत on a सवाल of संघीय क्षेत्राधिकार , और again on a सवाल of दिवालियापन  court authority ( now called Stern v. Marshall ) .
Smith died on February 8 , 2007 in a Hollywood , Florida hotel room as a result of  an overdose of नुस्खा दवाएँ  .
Within the final six months of her life , Smith was the  फ़ोकस of a नवीनीकृत दबायें कवरेज surrounding the मौत of उसके बेटे , डेनियल , और  the paternity and custody battle over her newborn daughter , Dannielynn .
The is one  denomination of जापानी  yen .
The current design was first minted in 1959 using  जापानी वर्ण ज्ञात as the `` नई स्क्रिप्ट `` , और यहूद भी  minted from 1949-1958 using `` old-script '' Japanese characters .
Five-yen coins  तिथि to 1870 ( जब , due to the much  higher value of the yen , they were minted in gold ) .
The front of the coin depicts a rice plant  growing आउट of the जल , साथ `` पाँच येन '' लिखा in कांजी  ; the back is stamped with `` Japan '' and the year of issue , also in kanji , separated by sprouts of a tree .
The three graphic elements of the coin represent agriculture and fisheries , the  कुंजी तत्व of the जापानी first-sector  economy .
Around a hole , there is a gear that  represents उद्योग  .
It is the only  जापानी सिक्का in परिसंचरण  to lack Arabic numerals on either face .
TLC is an American girl  समूह जिनकी रंगमंडल spanned r &  B , hip hop , soul , funk , and new jack swing .
originally consisting of सिंगर tionne `` t-boz '' वाटकिंस , rapper लिसा `` बाएँ नजर '' lopes और सिंगर rozonda `` chilli '' थामस  , the group found unprecedented success in the 1990s while also enduring a series of spats with the law , each other , and the group 's record label .
initially , tlc हासिल वाणिज्यिक कामयाबी  following the release of their debut album Ooooooohhh ...
On the TLC  टिप , जिससे बेची 6 लाख  copies worldwide .
However , it was their second album , CrazySexyCool , that catapulted the  समूह to superstar औकात  .
CrazySexyCool went on to be certified diamond  by the riaa — a पहला लिये a मादा समूह , और आखिरकार बेची 23 लाख  copies worldwide .
Five years  बाद , the समूह released उनके तीसरा एल्बम fanmail , जिससे became the समूह  's first album to debut at number one and sold more than 11 million copies worldwide .
The subsequent tour  following fanmails  release became the highest grossing tour of all time by a female band .
In 2002 , Lisa `` Left Eye '' Lopes died in a  car दुर्घटना in होंडुरास  .
Seven months later , T-Boz and Chilli released the  समूह 's चौथी एल्बम 3d , जिससे बेची 2 लाख नक़ल विश्वव्यापी  , it featured unreleased vocals from Left Eye .
Billboard magazine ranked TLC as  एक of the महानतम musical trios  .
Between 1992 and 2003 , the band accumulated ten top ten singles , four  क्रमांक एक singles , चार multi-platinum एल्बम , और चार ग्रैमी पुरस्कार  .
At the end of 1999 , TLC was ranked as the  सातवाँ सबसे कामयाब अधिनियम  of the 1990s by Billboard .
In 2008 , the group was inducted into the All Time Hot 100  कलाकार हॉल of कीर्ति by the वही पत्रिका , at 56th  place .
That year it was also listed as the # 25  r & b/hip-hop कलाकार of the  preceding 25 years .
TLC has sold more than 65 million records worldwide and they  हैं क्रमित as the दूसरी बेहतरीन selling मादा समूह of सब  time , and the best selling female R & B group of all time .
In 2012 , TLC ranked 12th on VH1 's  100 महानतम महिलाओं in म्यूज़िक , होने क्रमित the  number one all girl group on that list .
Tarzan is a 1999 American animated adventure film produced by Walt Disney Feature Animation  और वितरित by वॉल्ट डिज़्नी तस्वीरें .
The 37th film in the Walt Disney Animated Classics , it  is आधारित on the स्टोरी टार्ज़न of the apes by एडगर राइस बरोज , और is  the only major motion picture version of the story Tarzan property to be animated .
Directed by  क्रिस buck और केविन लीमा साथ a पटकथा by tab मर्फी , bob tzudiker , और नोनी श्वेत , टार्ज़न  features the voices of Tony Goldwyn , Minnie Driver , Glenn Close , and Rosie O'Donnell with Brian Blessed , Lance Henriksen , Wayne Knight , and Nigel Hawthorne .
It  थी the पिछला bona fide hit पहले the डिज़्नी slump  of the early 2000s grossing $ 171,091,819 domestically and $ 448,191,819 worldwide , outgrossing its predecessors Hercules ( 1997 ) and Mulan ( 1998 ) .
At the time of its release , its production budget of $ 130 million made it the most expensive animated film ever made , until topped by Disney 's own $  140 लाख खजाना  Planet in 2002 .
It was  भी the पहला डिज़्नी एनिमेटेड  feature to open at # 1 since Pocahontas .
This was the last major box  दफ्तर कामयाबी of the डिज़्नी  Renaissance .
Oil Platform P-51 off the  ब्राज़ीलियाई coast is a semi-submersible  platform .
Oil  मंच mittelplate  in the North sea
An oil platform , ( offshore platform or colloquially  आयल रिग ) is a विशाल ढांचा साथ सुविधाएं to  drill wells , to extract and process oil and natural gas , and to temporarily store product until it can be brought to shore for refining and marketing .
In many cases , the platform contains  सुविधाएं to हाउस the workforce  as well .
Depending on the circumstances , the platform may be fixed to  the समंदर मंजिल , may consist of an कृत्रिम द्वीप , or may  float .
Remote subsea wells may also be connected to a platform by flow  लाइनों और by umbilical कनेक्शन्स .
These subsea solutions may consist of one or more  subsea कुएं , or of एक or अधिक manifold केंद्रों  for multiple wells .
Slaughter is the  हत्या of पशु , प्रायः कि of घरेलू  livestock for food .
The  पशु सबसे commonly slaughtered लिये खाना हैं चौपायों , जल भैंस ( लिये बीफ और वील ) , शीप , बकरियों ( लिये मेमने और मटन ) , सूअर  ( for pork ) , horses ( for horse meat ) , and fowl , largely chickens , turkeys , and ducks and increasingly fish from the aquaculture industry ( fish farming ) .
The White House  , the अध्यक्ष  's official residence and center of the administration
Under the United States Constitution , the President of the United States is the  सिर of राज्य और सिर of सरकारी of the  United States .
As chief of the executive branch and head of the federal government as a whole , the presidency is the highest political  दफ्तर in the संयुक्त राज्य  by influence and recognition .
The president is also the  commander-in-chief of the संयुक्त राज्य हथियारबंद  Forces .
The president is indirectly elected to a four-year  पद by an चुनावी कॉलेज ( or by the हाउस of प्रतिनिधि चाहिए  the Electoral College fail to award an absolute majority of votes to any person ) .
Since the ratification of the Twenty-second Amendment to the United States Constitution in 1951 , no  व्यक्ति may be निर्वाचित अध्यक्ष अधिक than twice , और no एक जो रै परोसा अधिक than  two years of a term to which someone else was elected may be elected more than once .
Upon the death , resignation , or removal from office of an incumbent  अध्यक्ष , the वाइस अध्यक्ष assumes the दफ्तर  .
The President must be at least 35 years of age and a `` natural born '' citizen  of the संयुक्त राज्य  .
This list includes only those persons who were  sworn into दफ्तर as अध्यक्ष following the अनुसमर्थन of the संयुक्त राज्य  Constitution , which took effect on March 4 , 1789 .
For  अमरीकी नेताओ पहले इस अनुसमर्थन  , see President of the Continental Congress .
The list does not include any Acting  राष्ट्रपतियों अंतर्गत the twenty-fifth  Amendment to the United States Constitution .
There have been 43 people sworn into office  , और 44 presidencies , as ग्रोवर क्लीवलैंड परोसा दो non-consecutive शर्तें  and is counted chronologically as both the 22nd and 24th president .
Of the individuals elected as  अध्यक्ष , चार  died in office of natural causes ( William Henry Harrison , Zachary Taylor , Warren G. Harding , and Franklin D. Roosevelt ) , four were assassinated ( Abraham Lincoln , James A. Garfield , William McKinley , and John F. Kennedy ) and one resigned ( Richard Nixon ) .
George  वॉशिंगटन , the पहला अध्यक्ष , थी  inaugurated in 1789 after a unanimous vote of the Electoral College .
William Henry Harrison spent the shortest time in office with 32 days in 1841 , and Franklin D. Roosevelt spent the longest with  over बारह सालो , लकिन died shortly into उसके चौथी पद in  1945 .
He is the only president to serve more than two terms , and a constitutional amendment , affecting presidents after Harry  ट्रूमैन , थी passed to सीमा the क्रमांक of टाइम्स an व्यक्तिगत can be निर्वाचित  president .
Andrew Jackson , the seventh president ,  थी the पहला to be निर्वाचित by मेन of सब वर्ग in 1828  after most laws barring non-land-owners from voting were repealed .
Warren Harding was the  पहला निर्वाचित बाद महिलाओं gained मतदान अधिकारों  in 1920 .
History records four presidents – John Q  एडम्स , रदरफोर्ड B. हेज़ , बेंजामिन  Harrison and George W. Bush – who lost the popular vote but assumed office .
John F. Kennedy has been the only president of Roman Catholic faith , and the current president , Barack  ओबामा , is the पहला अध्यक्ष  of African descent .
Several firearms with detachable suppressors , from top to bottom : An Uzi , An  ar-15 , a heckler & koch खासियत रणनीतिक , a  Beretta 92FS , and a SIG Mosquito .
bolt कार्रवाई  rimfire rifle with suppressor
AWM-F  स्निपर राइफल साथ संलग्न  suppressor .
A suppressor , sound suppressor , or sound moderator ,  is a यंत्र संलग्न to or भाग of the बैरल of a firearm जिससे reduces the राशि of रव , और  usually the amount of muzzle flash , generated by firing the weapon .
A  suppressor can be प्रयुक्त  both with a firearm and with compressed air gun .
Though it is sometimes referred to as a silencer , this term is a misnomer  popularized by cinematic fiction : the ध्वनि of a प्रक्षेप्य , विशेषकर एक चलती तेज़ than the गति of ध्वनि , through the एयर can नहीं be eliminated  .
Using a suppressor in long distance shooting ( i.e . greater than 300 meters ) can lessen , or retard , the report at  the पल of प्रभाव , और बनाएँ  the impression of silence near the target .
The noise heard near the muzzle as a projectile leaves the barrel , though  subdued , is नहीं मूक at सब  .
A suppressor is usually a metal cylinder with internal mechanisms to reduce the sound of firing by slowing the escaping propellant gas  और sometimes by reducing the गति  of the bullet .
Early suppressors were created  around the शुरूआत of the 20th सदी  by several inventors .
American inventor Hiram Percy Maxim ( not to be confused with  hiram स्टीवंस कहावत , hiram पर्सी 's पिता , और the आविष्कारक of the कहावत यंत्र गन ) , is credited साथ inventing और  selling the first commercially successful models circa 1902 ( patented 30 March 1909 ) .
Maxim gave his device  the trademarked नाम कहावत  Silencer .
The muffler for internal combustion engines was developed in parallel with the firearm suppressor by Maxim in the early 20th century , using many of the same techniques to  provide quieter-running इंजन ( in अनेक यूरोपीय देशों ऑटोमोबाइल mufflers हैं स्टिल पुकारा silencers  ) .
The word silencer in reference to gun suppressor remains in widespread use , although it has since fallen out of favor with some , especially among the firearms industry , being replaced with the more literally accurate term sound suppressor or just suppressor , because a `` sound suppressor '' does not  `` खामोशी '' कोई हथियार , बल्कि it eliminates muzzle फ्लैश और reduces the सोनिक दबाव  of a firearm discharging .
Common usage  और u.S. विधान भाषा एहसान  the historically earlier term , silencer .
In U.S. law , the terms `` firearm  मफलर '' और `` firearm silencer  '' are synonymous .
Suppressors were regularly used by agents of the United States Office of Strategic Services , who favored the newly designed High Standard  hdm .22 long राइफल पिस्टल दौरान संसार  War II .
OSS  निदेशक विलियम जोसेफ `` जंगली  Bill '' Donovan demonstrated the pistol for President Franklin D. Roosevelt at the White House .
According to OSS research chief Stanley Lovell , Donovan ( an old and trusted friend of the President ) was  लहराया into the ओवल दफ्तर , जहाँ रूज़वेल्ट  was dictating a letter .
While Roosevelt finished his message , Donovan turned his back and fired ten shots into a  sandbag he था brought साथ उसे , घोषित कया he था किया और  handed the smoking gun to the astonished president .
The British SOE ( Special Operations Executive ) Welrod assassination pistol with an integral suppressor was  भी प्रयुक्त by the अमरीकी oss on clandestine परिचालन in नाजी occupied यूरोपीय दौरान the दूसरी  World War .
Beatrice `` Bea ''  आर्थर ( may 13 , 1922 – अप्रैल 25 , 2009 ) थी an अमरीकी अभिनेत्री  , comedienne , and singer whose career spanned seven decades .
Arthur achieved fame as the character Maude Findlay on the 1970s sitcoms  सब in the परिवार और maude , और as डोरोथी zbornak on the 1980s sitcom the सुनहरी  Girls , winning Emmy Awards for both roles .
A stage actress both before and after her television success , she won the Tony Award for Best Featured Actress in a Musical  लिये उसके प्रदर्शन as वीरा चार्ल्स in the असली  cast of Mame ( 1966 ) .
is a  2011 जापानी 3d computer-animated फिल्मी आधारित on the tekken  video game series , produced by Digital Frontier and distributed by Asmik Ace Entertainment in association with Bandai Entertainment .
The film premiered in North  अमेरिका by बंदाई entertainment on जुलाई 26 , 2011 , और in  Australia on July 27 , 2011 in a special exclusive one-off screening .
It was released  on सितंबर 3  , 2011 in Japan .
The  फिल्मी थी released on blu-ray डिस्क on नवम्बर  22 , 2011 for USA , and December 1 , 2011 for Japan .
This film was also released on DVD on November  22 , 2011 ( 2d संस्करण तभी )  .
The film was additionally included with the  प्लेस्टेशन 3 खेल , tekken संकर , और the निन्टेंडो 3ds  title , Tekken 3D : Prime Edition .
लिये a चर्चा of nonprofit , voluntary पड़ोस  advocacy groups , see neighborhood association .
In the United States , a homeowner association is a corporation formed by a  रियल एस्टेट डेवलपर लिये the purpose of विपणन , मैनेजिंग , और selling of घरों  and lots in a residential subdivision .
It grants the developer privileged voting rights in governing the association , while allowing the developer to exit financial and legal responsibility of the  संगठन , typically by transferring स्वामित्व of the संघ to the homeowners  after selling off a predetermined number of lots .
Membership in the  homeowners संघ by a आवासीय खरीदार is typically a कंडीशन  of purchase ; a buyer is n't given an option to reject it .
Most  homeowner एसोसिएशन हैं incorporated , और हैं विषय  to state statutes that govern non-profit corporations and homeowner associations .
State oversight of homeowner associations is minimal , and mainly takes  the रूप of कानून जिससे हैं असंगत  from state to state .
Some states , such as Florida and California , have a large body of homeowner association law , and some  राज्य , ऐसे as मैसाचुसेट्स , have वस्तुतः no homeowner  association law .
The fastest growing form of housing in the United States today is common-interest  developments ( cids ) , a श्रेणी कि शामिल planned-unit developments of single-family घरों , condominiums , और सहकारी  apartments .
चूंकि 1964 , homeowner एसोसिएशन  have become increasingly common in the USA .
The Community Associations Institute  व्यापार संघ अनुमानित कि hoas governed  24.8 million American homes and 62 million residents in 2010 .
a prize-winning  lilac-and-white Silkie
There are many breeds of Guinea pig which have  महरूम विकसित चूंकि इसके domestication ca . 5000 bc .
Breeds vary widely in  रूप और purpose , ranging इससे  show breeds with long , flowing hair to those in use as model organisms by science .
From ca . 1200 AD to the Spanish conquest of the Inca Empire in 1532 , selective breeding by  स्वदेशी दक्षिण अमरीकी peoples resulted in अनेक किस्में  of domestic Guinea pigs , which form the basis for some of the modern domestic breeds .
Early Andean  breeds यहूद primarily रखा as agricultural भण्डार लिये खाना , और प्रयत्न  at improving the Guinea pig as a food source continue to the modern era .
With the export of Guinea pigs to Europe in the  15th सदी , the लक्ष्य in प्रजनन shifted to फ़ोकस  on the development of appealing pets .
To this end ,  विभिन्न प्रतिस्पर्धी प्रजनन  organizations were founded by fanciers .
The American Cavy Breeders Association , an adjunct to the  अमरीकी खरगोश प्रजनक संघ  , is the governing body in the United States and Canada .
The  अंग्रेजों cavy परिषद governs  cavy clubs in the United Kingdom .
Similar organizations exist in Australia  ( ऑस्ट्रेलियाई नेशनल cavy परिषद ) और नई जीलैंड  ( New Zealand Cavy Club ) .
Each club  publishes इसके अपना मानक of पूर्णता  and determines which breeds are eligible for showing .
नई breeds continue  to emerge in the 21st century .
Though there are many breeds of  गिनी सुअर , तभी a few breeds हैं  commonly found on the show table as pets .
Most Guinea  सूअर मिला as पालतु यहूद either मिला अवांछनीय by प्रजनक or यहूद करवाया to  be pleasant pets regardless of how well they meet the breed standard of perfection .
The short hair , Abyssinian , Peruvian and  sheltie ( उर्फ silkie ) breeds हैं those  most frequently seen as pets , and the former three are the core breeds in the history of the competitive showing of Guinea pigs .
In addition to their standard  रूप , nearly सब breeds आइये in a  Satin variant .
Satins ,  due to उनके खोखला बाल shafts  , possess coats of a special gloss and shine .
However , there is growing evidence that the genes responsible for the  साटन कोट भी can कारण कठोर अस्थि समस्याएं  , including Osteodystrophy and Paget 's disease .
Showing Satin variations is prohibited by some cavy  प्रजनक ' एसोसिएशन क्युकी of एनिमल welfare कारण  .
All cavy breeds have  कुछ साझा सामान्य मानकों : the सिर प्रोफ़ाइल  should be rounded , with large eyes and large , smooth ears .
The body  चाहिए be दमदार और  of compact build .
Coat colour should in all variations be clearly defined and  thorough इससे रूट to टिप .
These standards are best met by  long स्थापित , commonly करवाया breeds , as  their breeders have had enough time and animals to effectively breed for these qualities .
The coat colour ideal of good definition and thoroughness is rarely met by other than the smooth coated  breeds , जिससे have था खूब स्थापित , पृथक प्रजनन लाइनों लिये अलग  colours .
State schools ( also known as public schools or government schools ) generally refer to primary  or द्वितीयक स्कूलों mandated लिये or offered to सब children बगैर चार्ज सशुल्क लिये , in पूरे or in  part , by taxation .
The term may also refer to institutions of post-secondary education funded , in whole or in part  , और overseen  by government .
the राइबोसोम assembles polymeric  protein molecules whose sequence is controlled by the sequence of messenger RNA molecules .
This is  जरूरी by सब जीना कोशिकाएं  and associated viruses .
The ribosome ( from ribonucleic acid and the Greek soma , meaning `` body '' ) is a large and complex molecular machine , found within all living cells ,  कि serves as the प्राथमिक साईट of biological प्रोटीन संश्लेषण ( अनुवाद  ) .
Ribosomes link amino acids together in the order specified by  मेसेंजर rna ( mrna ) अणुओं  .
Ribosomes consist of two major subunits—the small  ribosomal subunit पढ़े the mrna , जबकि the विशाल subunit  joins amino acids to form a polypeptide chain .
Each subunit is composed of one or more ribosomal RNA ( rRNA  ) अणुओं और a  variety of proteins .
The sequence of DNA encoding for a protein may be copied  अनेक टाइम्स into मेसेंजर rna ( mrna ) जंजीरों  of a similar sequence .
Ribosomes can bind to  an mrna कड़ी और उपयोग it as a टेम्पलेट लिये determining the सही  sequence of amino acids in a particular protein .
Amino acids are selected , collected and carried to the ribosome by transfer RNA ( tRNA molecules ) , which enter one  भाग of the राइबोसोम और bind to the मेसेंजर  RNA chain .
The  संलग्न अमीनो acids हैं तब linked  together by another part of the ribosome .
Once the protein is produced , it can then 'fold ' to produce a specific  कार्यात्मक three-dimensional ढांचा  .
A ribosome is made from complexes of  rnas और प्रोटीन और is इसलिए  a ribonucleoprotein .
Each ribosome is divided into two subunits : the smaller subunit  बांधता to the mrna पैटर्न , जबकि the larger subunit बांधता to the trna  and the amino acids .
When a ribosome  finishes पढना an mrna अणु , ये दो subunits विभाजित  apart .
Ribosomes are ribozymes , because the  catalytic peptidyl transferase कार्यकलाप कि कड़ी  amino acids together is performed by the ribosomal RNA .
Ribosomes from bacteria , archaea and eukaryotes ( the  तीन डोमेन of जीवन on धरती ) differ in उनके आकार , अनुक्रम  , structure , and the ratio of protein to RNA .
The differences in structure allow some antibiotics  to मार जीवाणु by inhibiting उनके ribosomes , जबकि  leaving human ribosomes unaffected .
In bacteria and archaea ,  अधिक than एक राइबोसोम may मूव साथ a सिंगल  mRNA chain at one time , each `` reading '' its sequence and producing a corresponding protein molecule .
The ribosomes in the mitochondria of eukaryotic cells  functionally resemble अनेक सुविधाएँ of those in जीवाणु  , reflecting the likely evolutionary origin of mitochondria .
Albert Claude , Christian de Duve ,  और जार्ज एमिल palade यहूद jointly  awarded the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine , in 1974 , for the discovery of the ribosomes .
The  नोबेल पुरस्कार in रसायन 2009 थी awarded to venkatraman  Ramakrishnan , Thomas A. Steitz and Ada E. Yonath for determining the detailed structure and mechanism of the ribosome .
The  सरलीकृत आतंरिक  structure of a chloroplast
Overview of the  calvin साईकिल और कार्बन  fixation
The  light-independent प्रतिक्रियाएँ of photosynthesis  are chemical reactions that convert carbon dioxide and other compounds into glucose .
These reactions occur in the stroma ,  the fluid-filled क्षेत्रफल  of a chloroplast outside of the thylakoid membranes .
These reactions take the light-dependent reactions and  perform further रासायनिक प्रक्रियाओं on उन्हें  .
There are three phases to the light-independent reactions , collectively  पुकारा the calvin साईकिल : कार्बन fixation , कटौती प्रतिक्रियाएँ , और ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate  ( RuBP ) regeneration .
Despite its name ,  इस प्रक्रम occurs तभी  when light is available .
पौधे do नहीं carry आउट the  Calvin cycle by night .
They ,  बजाय , रिलीज sucrose  into the phloem from their starch reserves .
This process happens when light is available independent of the kind of photosynthesis ( C3 carbon fixation , C4 carbon fixation , and Crassulacean Acid  चयापचय ) ; कैम पौधे स्टोर malic एसिड in उनके vacuoles  every night and release it by day in order to make this process work .
In mathematics , a square number or perfect square is an integer that is the square of  an पूर्णांक ; in अन्य शब्द , it is the उत्पाद of कुछ  integer with itself .
For example , 9 is a  वर्गाकार क्रमांक , चूंकि it can be  written as .
The usual notation for the formula for the square of a number is not the product , but the  समतुल्य घातांक , प्रायः सुनाया  as `` squared '' .
The name square number comes  इससे the नाम of the आकार ; देखिए  below .
वर्गाकार संख्याएँ हैं  non-negative .
another रास्ता of saying कि a ( non-negative ) क्रमांक is  a square number , is that its square roots are again integers .
लिये उदाहरण , = ±3 , so 9  is a square number .
A positive integer that  रै no पूर्ण वर्गाकार divisors मगर 1  is called square-free .
For a non-negative integer , the th square number is ,  साथ होने the zeroth वर्गाकार  .
The concept of square can be extended  to कुछ अन्य क्रमांक प्रणालियों  .
If rational numbers are included , then a  वर्गाकार is the अनुपात of दो वर्गाकार integers , और , conversely , the  ratio of two square integers is a square ( e.g. , 4/9 = ( 2/3 ) 2 ) .
starting साथ 1 , वहीँ हैं वर्गाकार संख्याएँ up to और सहित  , where the expression represents the floor of the number .
The Era of Good Feelings marked a period in  the राजनैतिक इतिहास of the संयुक्त राज्य कि reflected  a sense of national purpose and a desire for unity among Americans in the aftermath of the Napoleonic Wars .
The era saw the collapse of the Federalist Party and an end to the bitter partisan disputes between it and the dominant  democratic-republican पार्टी दौरान  the First Party System .
President James Monroe endeavored to downplay partisan affiliation in making his nominations , with the ultimate goal of national  एकता और eliminating पार्टियों altogether इससे नेशनल  politics .
The period is so closely associated with  मुनरो 's प्रेसिडेंसी ( 1817–1825 ) और उसके प्रशासनिक लक्ष्य कि उसके नाम और  the era are virtually synonymous .
The Era of Good Feelings  चिह्नित a परिवर्तन in अमरीकी  politics with the end of the Federalist Party as America began to develop after the War of 1812 .
जबकि अमेरिका थी experiencing विकास  and prosperity after the war with Britain , this era also marks the first instance of economic troubles in the growing United States .
Mirroring the American System proposed by Henry Clay , protective tariffs and the chartering of the Second Bank of the United States complicated  the टेंशन between the उत्तर और दक्षिण साथ the coming of the पहला वित्तीय संकट  .
While the term  “era of शुभ feelings” is प्रायः viewed साथ  irony because of the political turmoil , economic factors caused animosity between the North and South .
The designation of the period by historians as one of “good feelings” is often conveyed with irony or skepticism , as the history of the era was one in which the political atmosphere was strained and divisive ,  विशेषकर among गिरोहों भीतर the मुनरो प्रशासन और the रिपब्लिकन पार्टी  .
The phrase “Era of Good Feelings” was coined by Benjamin Russell , in the Boston Federalist newspaper , Columbian Centinel  , on जुलाई 12 , 1817 , following मुनरो 's विज़िट to बोस्टन , मैसाचुसेट्स as भाग  of his good will tour of America .
Mariel Margaret `` Mia '' Hamm ( born March 17 , 1972 ) is a retired  अमरीकी पेशेवर सॉकर  player .
Hamm played many years as a  आगे लिये the संयुक्त राज्य महिलाओं 's नेशनल  soccer team and was a founding member of the Washington Freedom .
Hamm scored 158 international goals , more than any other player , male or female , in the history of soccer and is the third most capped  मादा खिलाड़ी in सॉकर इतिहास पीछे kristine लिली और क्रिस्टी rampone , appearing  in 275 international matches .
Hamm was named the women 's FIFA World Player of the Year the first two times that  पुरस्कार थी दिए ( in 2001 और 2002 ) , और is सूचीबद्ध as एक of फीफा 's  125 best living players ( as chosen by Pelé ) .
She was inducted into the National  सॉकर हॉल of कीर्ति as खूब as the अलबामा खेल  Hall of Fame and Texas Sports Hall of Fame .
She is the author of Go For the Goal : A Champion 's Guide to Winning in Soccer  और जीवन और appeared in the  HBO documentary Dare to Dream : The Story of the U.S. Women 's Soccer Team .
Washington Post  columnist माइकल wilbon पुकारा hamm  , `` Perhaps the most important athlete of the last 15 years . ''
Hamm takes a  कोने  kick .
The New York Red Bulls is an American professional soccer team based  in हैरिसन , नई जर्सी , representing the नई  York metropolitan area .
the टोली competes in the पूर्वी  Conference of Major League Soccer ( MLS ) .
It is one of the ten charter clubs of MLS ,  having competed in the लीग चूंकि इसके  inception .
The team was a founding member of MLS ( 1996 ) , but has  गए through अनेक नाम परिवर्तन  .
The team  थी originally ज्ञात as the नई  York/New Jersey MetroStars through 1997 .
From the 1998 season through the 2005 season , the team  थी ज्ञात as the metrostars  .
On March 9 , 2006 , the team was  बेची to रेड सांड gmbh , अग्रणी  to the team 's current name .
They are the only original MLS franchise not  to have जीती कोई significant ट्रॉफी ( सहित नियमित  season , playoffs , and knockout competition ) since inception .
the टोली 's बेहतरीन  result in the MLS was the MLS Cup final in 2008 .
In  the us खोलें कप , the metrostars पहुँचे तीन semifinals  ( 1997 , 1998 , 2000 ) , before reaching their first final in 2003 , losing 1–0 to the Chicago Fire .
On August 26 , 2000 , the Metros ' Clint Mathis set an MLS record by scoring five  लक्ष्य in a खेल विरूद्ध the डलास  Burn .
Some well-known players that have played for the team include Giovanni Savarese , Tim Howard , Tony Meola , Tab Ramos , Alexi Lalas , Clint Mathis , Jozy  altidore , माइकल ब्राडली , क्लाउडियो reyna , एडी पोप , रॉबर्टो donadoni , lothar matthäus , एडोल्फो वालेंसिया  , Youri Djorkaeff , Amado Guevara , Juan Pablo Ángel , Thierry Henry , Juninho Pernambucano , Jan Gunnar Solli , Rafael Márquez , and Tim Cahill .
The team has also had well-known coaches , including  कार्लोस queiroz , कार्लोस अल्बर्टो parreira , बोरा  Milutinović , Bob Bradley , Mo Johnston , Bruce Arena and Hans Backe .
Confucianism , Taoism , and Buddhism are one , a painting in the litang  स्टाइल portraying तीन मेन हँस by a नदी स्ट्रीम , 12th सदी  , Song Dynasty .
Estimating the number of Buddhists in the world , or in many  देशों , is मुश्किल due to definitional मुद्दे as  well as practical problems of enumeration .
To begin with , the religious beliefs , practices , and identities of East Asians ( who comprise the majority of the world 's Buddhists by any measure ) often blend Buddhism with other  परंपराओं सहित confucianism , the चाइनीज लोक धर्म , daoism , shinto , और कोरियाई shamanism  .
सबसे अनुसरणकर्ता of buddhism do नहीं belong to संरचित congregations  , or observe a definite ritual of adherence such as taking Refuge , making it difficult to accurately estimate the number of practitioners .
An additional challenge is the hostility of several national  सरकारें ( प्रायः कम्युनिस्ट ones ऐसे as चीन  or North Korea ) to religion generally or to Buddhism specifically .
Government policies in these  देशों may प्रोत्साहित the under-reporting or non-reporting of धार्मिक adherence  , resulting in official totals that may drastically underestimate the number of religious practitioners in these countries .
Estimate of the  विश्वव्यापी बौद्ध जनसांख्यिकी दायरा इससे 350 लाख  to over one billion , but cluster nearer to the first figure .
Adherents.com ( as of 2012 )  suggests a फिगर of 397 लाख  .
By major  शाखाओं , the संख्याएँ हैं  as follows:
( 1 ) Mahayana Buddhism , including East Asian Buddhism , with no fewer than 185 million adherents , and possibly  अनेक टाइम्स कि अनेक ( again  , depending on definitional issues ) .
This  is the predominant रूप of buddhism  practiced in China , South Korea , Japan , Taiwan , Singapore , and Vietnam .
( 2 )  थेरवाद buddhism , साथ no कम than  125 million adherents .
This is the predominant form  of buddhism practiced in कंबोडिया , थाईलैंड  , Laos , Sri Lanka , and Burma .
( 3 ) Vajrayana  buddhism , साथ लगभग  20 million adherents .
This form predominates in the greater Tibetan and  मंगोलियाई regions , as खूब as in the  Himalayas .
Besides the  स्वतंत्र देशों of मंगोल और भूटान , और विभिन्न territories  within what is now western China , Vajrayana is traditional to certain regions of Russia ( e.g . Kalmykia , Buryatia ) , India ( e.g . Ladakh , Sikkim ) , and Nepal ( e.g . Khumbu ) .
Vajrayana , also known as Tibetan Buddhism , is often conflated with Tantric Buddhism  , लकिन इस is imprecise , as shingon और अन्य फ़ॉर्म of ईस्ट एशियाई buddhism भी  practice tantra .
At least 7 countries ( Sri Lanka , Thailand , Cambodia , Laos ,  बर्मा , भूटान , और मंगोल ) have unambiguous बौद्ध  majorities .
Depending on how one calculates Chinese and other East Asian adherents , this figure might  विस्तार to शामिल अनेक अधिक  countries .
In addition , Buddhism is the state religion of Cambodia and  भूटान , और receives prominent  mention in the constitutions of Thailand and Sri Lanka .
In northern  इण्डिया और नेपाल , the जमीन जहाँ buddhism  was born , the religion severely declined during the first millennium .
Whether this  मनाही थी due to the इस्लामी conquest of उत्तरी  India , or to other factors , remains controversial .
See the article  मनाही of buddhism  in India .
James  बटलर hickok ( may 27 , 1837 – अगस्त 2 ,  1876 ) , better known as Wild Bill Hickok , was a folk hero of the American Old West .
His skills as a gunfighter and scout , along  साथ उसके प्रतिष्ठा as a lawman , provided the आधार लिये उसके कीर्ति  , although some of his reported exploits are fictionalized .
born और उठाया on a फार्म in ग्रामीण इलिनोइस , hickok गई वेस्ट  at age 18 as a fugitive from justice , first working as a stagecoach driver , before he became a lawman in the frontier territories of Kansas and Nebraska .
He fought for the Union Army during the American Civil War , and gained publicity after the  युद्ध as a स्काउट , marksman , कर्ता , और पेशेवर  gambler .
Between his  law-enforcement कर्तव्य और जुए , जिससे easily  overlapped , Hickok was involved in several notable shootouts .
He was shot and killed while playing poker in the Nuttal &  मन 's सैलून in deadwood , डकोटा territory ( अभी  South Dakota ) .
कलाकार 's धारणा of  the Curiosity rover vaporizing rock on Mars .
The rover landed on Mars in  अगस्त 2012  .
A Mars rover is an  स्वचालित मोटर गाडी जिससे propels  itself across the surface of the planet Mars after landing .
Rovers have several advantages over stationary landers : they examine more  territory , वे can be निर्देशित to दिलचस्प सुविधाएँ , वे can प्लेस themselves in सनी स्थितियाँ to  weather winter months and they can advance the knowledge of how to perform very remote robotic vehicle control .
There have been four successful  robotically संचालित मंगल रोवर्स  .
The Jet  नोदन प्रयोगशाला प्रबंधित the  Mars Pathfinder mission and its now inactive Sojourner rover .
it फिलहाल manages the मंगल खोजी रोवर मिशन  's active Opportunity rover and inactive Spirit , and , as part of the Mars Science Laboratory mission , the Curiosity rover .
A financial audit  , or अधिक accurately , an ऑडिट of वित्तीय कथन  , is the verification of the financial statements of a legal entity , with a view to express an audit opinion .
The audit opinion is intended to  provide उचित परख , लकिन नहीं निरपेक्ष परख , कि the वित्तीय कथन  are presented fairly , in all material respects , and/or give a true and fair view in accordance with the financial reporting framework .
The purpose of an audit is provide and objective independent examination of the financial statements , which increases the value and  विश्वसनीयता of the वित्तीय कथन उत्पादित by प्रबन्धन , यूँ बढ़ाएँ उपयोक्ता विश्वास  in the financial statement , reduce investor risk and consequently reduce the cost of capital of the preparer of the financial statements .
Financial audits are typically performed by firms of practicing  लेखपाल जो हैं विशेषज्ञ in वित्तीय रिपोर्टिंग  .
The financial audit is one of many  परख कृत्यों provided by हिसाब  firms .
Many organizations separately employ or hire internal  auditors , जो do नहीं attest to वित्तीय रिपोर्ट्स लकिन फ़ोकस मुख्यतः  on the internal controls of the organization .
External auditors  may चुनें to प्लेस सीमित रिलायंस on  the work of internal auditors .
Auditing promotes transparency and accuracy in the financial disclosures made by an organization ,  इसलिए होता संभावित to reduce of ऐसे corporations to  conceal unscrupulous dealings .
internationally , the अंतरराष्ट्रीय मानकों on auditing ( isa ) जारी by the अंतरराष्ट्रीय auditing और  Assurance Standards Board ( IAASB ) is considered as the benchmark for audit process .
Almost all jurisdictions require auditors to follow the ISA or  a लोकल विभिन्नता of the  ISA .
Dollar coins have been minted in the  संयुक्त राज्य in सुनहरा , चांदी , और  base metal versions .
The term  चांदी डालर is प्रायः प्रयुक्त लिये कोई विशाल श्वेत  metal coin issued by the United States with a face value of one dollar , although purists insist that a dollar is not silver unless it contains some of that metal .
Silver dollars , the first dollar  सिक्का समस्या , यहूद minted शुरूआत in 1794  .
Gold dollars  और gold-colored डॉलर  have also been produced by the United States .
The Sacagawea and Presidential dollars are  प्रायः referred to as `` सुनहरी डॉलर  '' .
In modern times , dollar coins have not  महरूम बहुत लोकप्रिय in  the United States .
Despite efforts by  the सरकारी  to promote their use , most Americans currently use the one dollar bill rather than dollar coins .
In  सीधा और स्तर उड़ान लिफ्ट ( l  ) equals weight ( W ) .
In a banked  फेरे of 60° , लिफ्ट बराबरी  double the weight ( L=2W ) .
The pilot  अनुभवों 2g  and a doubled weight .
The steeper the bank ,  the वृहद  the g-forces .
इस top-fuel dragster can accelerate  from zero to in 0.86 seconds .
This is a horizontal  त्वरण of 5.3 g. संयुक्त साथ the लंबवत  g-force in the stationary case the Pythagorean theorem yields a g force of 5.4 g .
g-force ( with g from  गुरुत्वाकर्षक ) is a पद लिये accelerations लगा as  weight and measurable by accelerometers .
It is not a force , per se , but a  फ़ोर्स प्रति  unit mass .
Since such a force is perceived as a  वज़न , कोई g-force can be वर्णित as a `` वज़न प्रति ईकाई द्रव्यमान  '' ( see the synonym specific weight ) .
The g-force  त्वरण अधिनियमों as a गुणक of weight-like शक्तियां  for every unit of an object 's mass , and ( save for certain electromagnetic force influences ) is the cause of an object 's acceleration in relation to free-fall .
This acceleration experienced by an object is  due to the वेक्टर योग of non-gravitational शक्तियां  acting on an object free to move .
The accelerations that are not produced by gravity are termed  उचित accelerations , और it is तभी ये कि हैं measured  in g-force units .
They cause  तनावों और strains on  objects .
क्युकी of ये strains  , large g-forces may be destructive .
Gravitation acting alone does not produce a  g-force , भी हालांकि g-forces  are expressed in multiples of the acceleration of a standard gravity .
Thus , the standard gravitational  त्वरण at the धरती 's सतह produces g-force तभी indirectly  , as a result of resistance to it by mechanical forces .
the 1 g-force on an ऑब्जेक्ट बैठे on the धरती 's सतह is caused by mechanical  force exerted in the upward direction by the ground , keeping the object from going into free-fall .
The upward force from the ground ensures that an object at rest on the Earth 's surface is accelerating relative to the free-fall condition , which  is the पाथ कि the ऑब्जेक्ट होता follow जब गिरना freely toward  the Earth 's center .
Objects  अनुमत to free-fall in an inertial trajectory  under the influence of gravitation-only , feel no g-force .
This is demonstrated by the `` zero-g '' conditions inside a freely falling elevator falling toward the Earth  's बीच ( in वैक्यूम ) , or ( to शुभ सन्निकटन ) शर्तें अंदर  a spacecraft in Earth orbit .
These are examples of  निर्देशांक त्वरण ( a बदलें in गति  ) without a sensation of weight .
The  अनुभव of no g-force ( zero-g ) , however  it is produced , is synonymous with weightlessness .
In the absence of gravitational fields , or in directions at right angles to them , proper and coordinate accelerations are  the वही , और कोई निर्देशांक त्वरण जरूर be उत्पादित by a  corresponding g-force acceleration .
An example here is a rocket in free space , in which simple changes in  गति हैं उत्पादित by the इंजन  , and produce g-forces on the rocket and passengers .
An augur holding  a lituus , the curved wand प्रायः प्रयुक्त  as a symbol of augury on Roman coins
the augur थी a पुजारी और आधिकारिक in  the classical world , especially ancient Rome and Etruria .
His main role was to  interpret the होगा of the देवताओं by अध्ययन the उड़ान of पक्षियों : whether वे हैं उड़ती  in groups or alone , what noises they make as they fly , direction of flight and what kind of birds they are .
This  थी ज्ञात as  `` taking the auspices . ''
The ceremony and function of the augur was central to any major  undertaking in रोमन society—public or private—including  matters of war , commerce , and religion .
The Roman historian Livy stresses the importance of the augurs : `` Who  करता नहीं जान कि इस नगर थी संस्थापित तभी बाद लेने the auspices , कि सबकुछ in युद्ध और  in peace , at home and abroad , was done only after taking the auspices ? ''
Farmington Hills is an  affluent जातियाँ in southeastern  Michigan .
It is the second largest  नगर in ओकलैंड काउंटी  in the U.S. state of Michigan .
Its population was 79,740 at  the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी  .
It is part of the  upscale northwestern उपनगरों of महानगर डेट्रॉयट और is भी पूर्वोत्तर  of downtown Ann Arbor .
Farmington Hills  consistently बाँधने as एक of the safest  cities in the United States , as well as in the state of Michigan .
In 2010 , the area  क्रमित as the 30th safest नगर  in America .
Although  the दो शहरों have पृथक सेवाएं और पता , farmington  and Farmington Hills are often thought of as the same community .
सुविधाएँ of the जातियाँ शामिल a recently संवर शहर  , boutiques , a vintage cinema , numerous restaurants , exotic car dealerships , art galleries , and public parks including Heritage Park .
There are several  ऐतिहासिक साइट सहित the  Longacre House and the Governor Warner Mansion .
Both cities are served by  farmington पब्लिक स्कूलों  .
farmington पहाड़ियाँ serves  as a major business center for the greater Detroit area .
present-day छाप  of a Late Bronze Age seal
Town seal (  मेट्रिक्स ) of náchod  from 1570
A seal is a device for making an  छाप in मोम , मिट्टी , पेपर , or कुछ अन्य  medium , including an embossment on paper , and is also the impression thus made .
The original purpose was to authenticate a document , a  wrapper लिये एक ऐसे as a आधुनिक लिफाफा , or the कवर of a संग्राहक  or package holding valuables or other objects .
the sealing प्रक्रम is essentially कि of a सांचे , साथ  the final image represented on the device for making the impression by a mirror-image design , incised in sunken- ( or counter- ) relief or intaglio .
The seal-making device is also  referred to as the मुहर मेट्रिक्स or die ; the imprint it creates as the मुहर छाप  ( or , more rarely , the sealing ) .
If the impression is made purely as a relief resulting from the greater pressure on the  पेपर जहाँ the ऊँची भाग of the मेट्रिक्स टच , the मुहर is ज्ञात as a शुष्क मुहर ; in सब अन्य मामले a द्रव or liquified मीडियम (  such as ink or wax ) is used , usually in another color than the paper .
For legal  उद्देश्य , the परिभाषा of a मुहर may be  extended to include rubber stamps , or writing specified words ( `` seal '' or `` L.S . `` ) .
In the United States , the word `` seal '' is sometimes assigned to a facsimile of the seal design ( in monochrome or color ) , which may be  प्रयुक्त in a किस्में of contexts सहित architectural जमावट , on ध्वज , or on आधिकारिक letterheads  .
Thus , for example , the Great Seal of the United States , among other uses , appears  on the रिवर्स of the one-dollar विधेयक ; और अनेक of  the seals of the U.S. states appear on their respective state flags .
In Europe , although coats of arms and heraldic badges may well feature in such contexts as well as on  seals , the मुहर डिज़ाइन in इसके entirety rarely appears as an  emblem .
The  पढ़ाई of seals is ज्ञात as sigillography  or sphragistics .
Groundhog Day (  पेन्सिलवेनिया जर्मनी : grundsaudaag  , Murmeltiertag ) is a day celebrated on February 2 .
According to folklore , if it is cloudy when a groundhog emerges from its burrow on this day , then spring will come early ; if it is  सनी , the groundhog होगा माना देखिए इसके छाया और रिट्रीट वापस into इसके burrow , और the शीत मौसम होगा continue लिये  six more weeks .
आधुनिक कस्टम of the अवकाश involve जश्न  where early morning festivals are held to watch the groundhog emerging from its burrow .
In southeastern  पेन्सिलवेनिया , groundhog lodges ( grundsow lodges ) celebrate  the holiday with fersommlinge , social events in which food is served , speeches are made , and one or more g'spiel ( plays or skits ) are performed for entertainment .
The Pennsylvania German dialect is the only  भाषा बोला at the इवेंट , और those जो बोलो अंग्रेज़ी अदा a दंड , प्रायः in the रूप of  a nickel , dime , or quarter per word spoken , with the money put into a bowl in the center of the table .
The largest  groundhog दिन जश्न is आयोजित  in Punxsutawney , Pennsylvania .
Groundhog Day , already a widely recognized and popular tradition , received widespread attention as a result  of the 1993 फिल्मी groundhog दिन , जिससे थी नियत in punxsutawney , pa ( हालांकि फिल्माया primarily in वुडस्टॉक , il )  and portrayed Punxsutawney Phil .
ऊँची रेज़ोल्यूशन  image of Tampa Bay region
The Tampa Bay area has a humid subtropical climate (  koppen cfa ) , साथ गरम और आर्द्र ग्रीष्म साथ बारंबार thunderstorms और drier सर्दियों  with freezing temperatures occurring every 2–3 years .
The area experiences a significant summer wet season , as nearly  two-thirds of the सालाना वर्षण जलप्रपात in  the months of June through September .
The area is listed by the United States Department of Agriculture ( USDA ) as being  in hardiness मण्डल 10 , जिससे is परिचय the उत्तरी सीमा of जहाँ नारियल हथेलियां और royal  palms can be grown .
Highs usually range between  65 और 95 °f  ( 18 and 35 °C ) year round .
Though known for hot summers , Tampa 's official high has  never पहुँचे 100 °f ( 38 °c ) – the नगर 's all-time  record temperature is 99 °F ( 37 °C ) .
St. Petersburg 's all-time record high  is exactly 100 °f ( 38 °c )  .
Pinellas County lies on a peninsula between Tampa Bay and the  गल्फ of मैक्सिको , और much of the  city of Tampa lies on a smaller peninsula jutting out into Tampa Bay .
This  निकटता to विशाल लाशें of जल दोनो नरमपंथियों  temperatures and introduces large amounts of humidity into the atmosphere .
In general , the local communities  farthest इससे the coast have larger तापमान सीमाएँ  , both during a single day and throughout the seasons of the year .
A diagram of the electromagnetic spectrum  , प्रर्दशित विभिन्न गुण आरपार  the range of frequencies and wavelengths
The electromagnetic spectrum is the range of  सब संभावित बारंबारता of इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक  radiation .
The ``  इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक वर्णक्रम '' of an ऑब्जेक्ट रै a अलग अर्थ  , and is instead the characteristic distribution of electromagnetic radiation emitted or absorbed by that particular object .
The electromagnetic spectrum extends from below the low frequencies used for  आधुनिक रेडियो संचार to गामा विकिरण at the short- wavelength ( high-frequency  ) end , thereby covering wavelengths from thousands of kilometers down to a fraction of the size of an atom .
The limit for long wavelengths is the size of the universe itself , while it is thought  कि the छोटी wavelength सीमा is in the vicinity of the प्लांक लंबाई  , although in principle the spectrum is infinite and continuous .
Most parts of the electromagnetic spectrum are used in science for  spectroscopic और अन्य probing interactions , as तरीके to  study and characterize matter .
In  जोड , विकिरण इससे विभिन्न भाग of the  spectrum has found many other uses for communications and manufacturing ( see electromagnetic radiation for more applications ) .
लेजेंड
Franklin Delano Roosevelt ( or ; January 30 , 1882 – April 12 , 1945 ) , also known by his initials  , fdr , थी the 32nd अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य ( 1933–1945 ) और a सेंट्रल फिगर in संसार  events during the mid-20th century , leading the United States during a time of worldwide economic depression and total war .
A dominant leader of the Democratic Party and the only American president elected to more than two terms , he built a New  सौदे गठबन्धन कि realigned अमरीकी राजनीती बाद 1932 , as उसके घरेलू नीतियों पारिभाषित  American liberalism for the middle third of the 20th century .
With the bouncy popular song `` Happy Days Are Here Again `` as his campaign theme , FDR defeated incumbent  रिपब्लिकन हर्बर्ट हूवर in नवम्बर 1932 , at the गहराई of the ग्रेट  Depression .
Energized by his personal victory over polio , FDR 's unfailing  आशावाद और सक्रियता contributed to a नवीकरण of the नेशनल स्पिरिट  .
he worked closely साथ अंग्रेजों प्रधान मंत्री विंस्टन चर्चिल और सोवियत सामान्य सचिव जोसेफ  Stalin in leading the Allies against Germany and Japan in World War II , and restoring prosperity to the nation 's economy .
In his first hundred days in office , which began March 4  , 1933 , रूज़वेल्ट पथप्रदर्शन प्रमुख विधान और जारी a profusion of कार्यपालिका आदेश कि instituted the  New Deal —a variety of programs designed to produce relief ( government jobs for the unemployed ) , recovery ( economic growth ) , and reform ( through regulation of Wall Street , banks and transportation ) .
The economy improved  rapidly इससे 1933 to 1937 , लकिन तब  relapsed into a deep recession .
The bipartisan Conservative Coalition that formed in 1937 prevented his packing the Supreme Court or passing any  considerable विधान ; it abolished अनेक of the राहत कार्यक्रम जब बेरोजगारी  diminished during World War II .
Most of  the regulations on कारोबार यहूद ended परिचय 1975–85 , मगर लिये the विनियमन  of Wall Street by the Securities and Exchange Commission , which still exists .
Along with several smaller programs , major surviving programs include the Federal  जमा बीमे निगम , जिससे थी निर्मित in 1933 , और सोशल सुरक्षा  , which Congress passed in 1935 .
As World War II loomed after 1938 ,  साथ the जापानी आक्रमण of चीन और the आक्रामकता of नाजी जर्मनी , fdr  gave strong diplomatic and financial support to China and Great Britain , while remaining officially neutral .
His goal was to make America the `` Arsenal of  लोकतंत्र `` जिससे होता सप्लाई munitions  to the Allies .
In  कूच 1941 , रूज़वेल्ट , साथ congressional स्वीकृति , provided  Lend-Lease aid to the countries fighting against Nazi Germany with Britain .
With very strong national support , he made war on Japan and Germany after the Japanese attack on Pearl  हार्बर on दिसम्बर 7 , 1941 , कॉलिंग it a `` तिथि जिससे  will live in infamy `` .
He supervised the mobilization of the U.S.  अर्थव्यवस्था to support the अलाइड युद्ध प्रयत्न .
As an active military leader ,  रूज़वेल्ट implemented an overall युद्ध रणनीति on दो fronts कि ended in the शिकस्त of the  Axis Powers and the development of the world 's first atom bomb .
In  1942 रूज़वेल्ट ordered the internment of  100,000 Japanese American civilians .
Unemployment dropped to 2 % , relief programs largely ended , and the industrial economy grew rapidly to new heights as  लाखो of लोगों स्थानांतरित to नई कार्य in युद्ध centers , और 16 लाख मेन और 300,000 महिलाओं यहूद drafted  or volunteered for military service .
Roosevelt dominated the American political scene not only during  the बारह सालो of उसके  presidency , but also for decades afterward .
He orchestrated the realignment of voters  कि निर्मित the पांचवां  Party System .
FDR 's New Deal Coalition united labor unions , big city machines  , श्वेत ethnics  , African Americans and rural white Southerners .
He  भी बहकावे the बाद सृष्टि of  the United Nations and Bretton Woods .
Roosevelt is consistently rated by scholars as one of the top three U.S. Presidents , along with Abraham Lincoln  और जार्ज वॉशिंगटन  .
A liberal Democrat , Roosevelt  पारिभाषित उसके वैचारिक स्थिति  as `` a little left of center . ''
A Joint Committee is a term in politics that is used to refer to a committee made up of  सदस्यों of दोनो कक्षों of a bicameral विधानमंडल  .
In other contexts , it refers to a  कमेटी साथ सदस्यों इससे अधिक  than one organization .
The regulation of prostitution in the United States is not among the enumerated powers of the federal government ; Under the Tenth Amendment  to the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान , it is इसलिए exclusively the डोमेन of the राज्य to परमिट , prohibit , or वरना विनियमित वाणिज्यिक sex , मगर  insofar as Congress may regulate it as part of interstate commerce with laws like the Mann Act .
In most  राज्य , वेश्यावृति is माना a misdemeanor in the श्रेणी  of public order crime , a crime that disrupts the order of a community .
It was at one  समय माना to  be a vagrancy crime .
Currently , Nevada is the only state to allow brothel prostitution , the  शर्तें of जिससे हैं stipulated in the नेवाडा संशोधित  Statutes .
Only 8 counties  फिलहाल contain क्रियाशील brothels  .
All forms of prostitution are illegal in Clark County ( which contains the Las Vegas–Paradise metropolitan area ) , Washoe  काउंटी ( जिससे contains रेनो ) , कार्सन नगर , डगलस काउंटी  , and Lincoln County .
The other counties theoretically allow  वेश्यालय वेश्यावृति , लकिन कुछ of ये काउंटी  currently have no active brothels .
Street prostitution , `` pandering , '' and living off of the proceeds of a  वेश्या remain illegal अंतर्गत नेवाडा विधि , as elsewhere in the देश  .
As with other  देशों , वेश्यावृति in the संयुक्त  States can be divided into three broad categories : street prostitution , brothel prostitution , and escort prostitution .
The national flag of the United States of America , often simply referred to as the American flag , consists of thirteen equal horizontal stripes of red ( top and bottom ) alternating with white , with a blue rectangle  in the कैण्टन ( referred to specifically as the `` संघ '' ) bearing पचास छोटी , श्वेत , five-pointed सितारों arranged in नौ ऑफसेट आड़ा पंक्ति of छह सितारों ( शीर्ष और  bottom ) alternating with rows of five stars .
The 50 stars on the flag represent the 50 states of the United States of America and the 13 stripes represent the thirteen  अंग्रेजों colonies कि घोषित स्वतंत्रता इससे the किंगडम of ग्रेट ब्रिटेन और became the  first states in the Union .
Nicknames for the flag include the `` Stars and Stripes  '' , `` बूढ़ा महिमा `` , और `` the star-spangled  Banner . ''
India is a federal union of states comprising  twenty-eight राज्य और सात संघ territories  .
The states and territories are further  subdivided into जिले और so  on .
congressional जिले  for the 113th United States Congress
2010 Census  change:
Change in apportionment of congressional districts , starting in 2013 , as a  परिणाम of the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी .
2000 Census  change:
Change in apportionment of congressional  जिले , इससे 2003 to 2013 , as a परिणाम of  the 2000 census .
This is a complete list of congressional districts  लिये प्रतिनिधित्व in the संयुक्त राज्य हाउस  of Representatives .
The quantity ( apportionment ) and boundaries ( redistricting ) of districts are determined after  प्रत्येक जनसांख्यिकी , हालांकि in कुछ मामले राज्य have बदला the सीमाएँ अधिक than एकबार  per census .
This list includes the 435 current  और over 200 obsolete  districts .
For example , since the 2000 census , Nebraska has had three  जिले , लकिन it प्रयुक्त to have  as many as six .
In the first decade of  the twenty-first सदी , टेक्सास था 32 जिले , लकिन रै चूंकि  added four due to reapportionment as a result of the 2010 census .
अन्य राज्य have खोया जिले चूंकि the  number of congressional seats has been set at 435 by statute .
Also included here are  non-voting delegations : छह वर्तमान  and four obsolete .
The boundaries of  जिले प्रायः शिफ़्ट साथ प्रत्येक redistricting  .
Over time , the region and  जनसांख्यिकी represented in a ज़िला  can change substantially .
Furthermore , districts sometimes retain the same boundaries while  बदलना उनके ज़िला संख्याएँ  .
Mariah Carey ( born March 27 , 1970 ) is an American singer , songwriter ,  रिकार्ड निर्माता , अभिनेत्री , और लोकसेवक  .
Under the guidance of Columbia Records executive  टॉमी mottola , कैरी released उसके self-titled डेब्यू स्टुडियो एल्बम mariah कैरी  in 1990 ; it went multi-platinum and spawned four consecutive number one singles on the U.S . Billboard Hot 100 chart .
following उसके विवाह to mottola in 1993 और कामयाबी  with hit records Emotions ( 1991 ) , Music Box ( 1993 ) , and Merry Christmas ( 1994 ) , Carey was established as Columbia 's highest-selling act .
daydream ( 1995 ) बना म्यूज़िक इतिहास जब इसके दूसरी सिंगल `` एक मीठी  Day `` , a duet with Boyz II Men , spent a record sixteen weeks on top of the Billboard Hot 100 , and remains the longest-running number-one song in U.S. chart history .
During the recording of the album , Carey began to deviate from her R & B and pop  beginnings और धीरे  traversed into hip hop .
This musical change became  evident साथ the रिलीज of तितली ( 1997 ) , at जिससे  time Carey had separated from Mottola .
Carey left Columbia in  2000 , और हस्ताक्षरित a record-breaking  $ 100 million recording contract with Virgin Records .
Before the release of her first  विशेषता फिल्मी glitter ( 2001 ) , वो suffered a शारीरिक  and emotional breakdown and was hospitalized for severe exhaustion .
Following the film 's poor  रिसेप्शन , वो थी खरीदा आउट of उसके रिकॉर्डिंग  contract for $ 50 million , which led to a decline in her career .
वो हस्ताक्षरित a multi-million डालर अनुबंध सौदे साथ द्वीप  Records in 2002 , and after an unsuccessful period , returned to the top of music charts with The Emancipation of Mimi ( 2005 ) .
Its second single `` We Belong Together `` became her most  कामयाब सिंगल of the 2000s , और थी बाद नामित `` सोंग of the दशक ''  by Billboard .
Carey once again ventured into film with a well-received starring role in ( 2009 ) ; she was awarded the `` Breakthrough Performance  पुरस्कार '' at the ताड़ स्रोतों अंतरराष्ट्रीय फिल्मी पर्व , और ब्लैक रील और naacp चित्र पुरस्कार  nominations .
In a career spanning over two decades , Carey has sold more than 200 million records worldwide , making her one of the  best-selling म्यूज़िक कलाकारों of सब  time .
In 1998 , she was  सम्मानित as the संसार 's best-selling  recording artist of the 1990s at the World Music Awards .
Carey was also named the  best-selling मादा कलाकार of the  millennium in 2000 .
According to the Recording Industry Association of America , she is the third best-selling female artist in the United  राज्य , साथ 63.5 लाख certified  albums .
साथ the रिलीज of `` टच my देह `` ( 2008 ) , कैरी  gained her eighteenth number one single in the United States , more than any other solo artist .
In 2012 ,  कैरी थी क्रमित दूसरी on vh1 's सूची of the  `` 100 Greatest Women in Music '' .
Aside from her commercial  accomplishments , कैरी रै जीती पाँच ग्रैमी पुरस्कार , 17 संसार  Music Awards , 11 American Music Awards , and 31 Billboard Music Awards .
Referred to as the `` songbird supreme '' by the Guinness  संसार रिकॉर्ड , वो is famed लिये उसके five-octave गायन दायरा , शक्ति  , melismatic style and signature use of the whistle register .
Stratocumulus  stratiformis  cumulogenitus
In meteorology , a cloud is a  दृश्य द्रव्यमान of द्रव droplets or frozen  crystals made of water or various chemicals suspended in the atmosphere above the surface of a planetary body .
These suspended  अणु हैं भी  known as aerosols .
Clouds in  धरती 's माहौल हैं पढ़ाई  in the cloud physics branch of meteorology .
Two processes , possibly acting together , can lead to air  बनने संतृप्त ; कूलिंग the  air or adding water vapor to the air .
In general , precipitation  होगा पतन to the सतह ; an एक्सेप्शन is virga  , which evaporates before reaching the surface .
The international cloud classification system is based on the fact clouds in their most basic forms can show free-convective upward growth like cumulus ,  appear in non-convective परतदार चादरें ऐसे as स्ट्रेट्स , or लो the रूप of  thin fibrous wisps , as in the case of cirrus .
Prefixes  हैं प्रयुक्त in कनेक्शन साथ बादल to एक्स्प्रेस विसंगतियाँ  or complexities in these basic forms or to specify middle or high altitude ranges .
These include strato- for low clouds with limited convection that form mostly in uneven layers , cumulo- for complex highly-convective storm clouds , nimbo- for thick  परतदार बादल of कुछ जटिलता कि can उपज मॉडरेट  to heavy precipitation , alto- for middle clouds , and cirro- for high clouds ; the latter two of which may be of simple or moderately complex structure .
Whether or not a cloud is low ,  मध्य , or ऊँची स्तर depends on कैसा दूर ऊपर  the ground its base forms .
Cloud types with significant vertical  extent can रूप in the कम or मध्य ऊँचाई सीमाएँ depending  on the moisture content of the air .
Clouds in the  क्षोभमण्डल have लैटिन names due to the  popular adaptation of Luke Howard 's cloud categorization system , which began to spread in popularity during December 1802 .
Synoptic  सतह मौसम observations उपयोग कोड संख्याएँ to रिकार्ड  and report the types of tropospheric cloud visible at each scheduled observation time based on the height and physical appearance of the clouds .
While a majority of  बादल रूप in धरती 's क्षोभमण्डल , वहीँ हैं अवसरों  when clouds in the stratosphere and mesosphere can be observed .
These  तीन प्रमुख परतों of the माहौल जहाँ  clouds may be seen are collectively known as the homosphere .
Above this lies the  thermosphere और exosphere , जिससे साथ मेक up  the heterosphere that marks the transition to outer space .
Clouds have been observed on other planets and moons within the Solar System ,  लकिन , due to उनके अलग तापमान विशेषताएँ , वे हैं रचित of अन्य substances ऐसे  as methane , ammonia , and sulfuric acid .
Galveston County is a county located in the  u.S. राज्य of टेक्सास भीतर the houston–sugar  Land–Baytown metropolitan area .
As of the 2010 census , the  जनसांख्यिकी थी 291,309  .
इसके काउंटी सीट  is Galveston .
League City is the largest city in Galveston County in terms of  जनसांख्यिकी ; url_http between 2000 और 2005 it surpassed  Galveston as the county 's largest city .
Galveston County was  संस्थापित in 1838  .
nassau
freeport ,  Bahamas
This is a list  of शहरों  in the Bahamas .
The following table lists the city or town name , the geographic coordinates , the  जनसांख्यिकी as of the 1990 जनसांख्यिकी , an अनुमान  of the population as of 2009 , and the island name .
The Big Ten Conference , formerly Western Conference and Big Nine Conference , is the oldest  प्रभाग i कॉलेज एथलेटिक सम्मेलन in the संयुक्त राज्य  .
Its twelve member institutions ( which are primarily flagship research universities in their respective states ,  well-regarded academically , और साथ अपेक्षाकृत विशाल छात्र नामांकन ) हैं स्तिथ primarily in the मिडवेस्ट , stretching इससे नेब्रास्का in the वेस्ट  to Penn State in the east .
The conference competes in  the ncaa 's प्रभाग i ; इसके फ़ुटबॉल टीमों compete in the फ़ुटबॉल कटोरी subdivision  ( FBS ) , formerly known as Division I-A , the highest level of NCAA competition in that sport .
Member schools of the Big Ten ( or , in  दो मामले , उनके जनक विश्वविद्यालयों प्रणालियों ) भी हैं सदस्यों of the  Committee on Institutional Cooperation , a leading educational and research consortium .
Despite the conference 's name , the Big Ten actually consists  of 12 स्कूलों , following the जोड of the पेन्सिलवेनिया  State University in 1993 and the University of Nebraska–Lincoln in 2011 .
In 2014  , the सम्मेलन होगा विस्तार to 14 सदस्यों साथ  the additions of the University of Maryland , College Park and Rutgers , The State University of New Jersey .
It is not to be confused with the Big 12  सम्मेलन , जिससे रै तभी टेन स्कूलों और represents a अलग  region of the country .
Single Malt Scotch is single malt whisky made in Scotland using a pot still distillation process at a  सिंगल डिस्टिलरी , साथ malted जौ as the तभी अनाज  ingredient .
As with any  स्कॉच व्हिस्की , a सिंगल malt स्कॉच जरूर be आसुत in स्कॉटलैंड  and matured in oak casks in Scotland for at least three years ( most single malts are matured longer ) .
`` Malt '' indicates that the whisky is  आसुत इससे a `` malted '' अनाज  .
Several types of grains can be malted ( for example , barley ,  rye और गेहूं हैं सब दाने जिससे can be malted ) ; however ,  in the case of single malt Scotch , barley is always the only grain used .
`` Single '' indicates  कि सब the malts in the बोतल  come from a single distillery .
Bottlings containing malt whisky from  अनेक distilleries हैं पुकारा `` blended  malt `` .
Until the Scotch Whisky Regulations 2009 ( SWR 2009 ) , the word ``  blended '' तभी appeared ( in the कॉन्टेक्स्ट of स्कॉच व्हिस्की ) on बोतलों of व्हिस्की कि contained a मिश्रण of  both barley and non-barley grain whisky , but this is no longer the case .
Under the terminology established by the SWR 2009 , a `` blended malt Scotch whisky '' is a mixture of single malt Scotch whiskies , not a mixture of malted barley whisky and non-barley  व्हिस्की ; those हैं पुकारा `` blended स्कॉच व्हिस्की '' , बगैर  the word `` malt '' .
The term `` blended malt '' replaced `` vatted  malt '' प्रयुक्त अंतर्गत the prior  labelling conventions .
The age statement on a bottle of single malt Scotch is the number  of सालो the व्हिस्की खर्च maturing in  cask .
As  बहुत few whiskies हैं बोतलबंद इससे a सिंगल cask  the age statement reflects the age of the youngest malt in the mix .
A texture may be arranged so as to , `` closely  दृष्टिकोण the single-object औकात of fused-ensemble timbres , लिये उदाहरण , the खूबसूरत 'northern लाइट्स ' कॉर्ड ... , in a बहुत दिलचस्प  distribution of pitches , produces a fused sound supported by a suspended cymbal roll `` ( Erickson ( 1975 ) , p.166 & 168 ) .
In contrast to more traditional musical textures , sound mass composition `` minimizes the importance of individual pitches in preference for texture  , timbre , और डायनामिक्स as प्राथमिक shapers of भाव  and impact . ''
Developed from the modernist tone clusters and  स्प्रेड to orchestral लिखने by the लेट 1950s और 1960s , sound-mass `` obscures  the boundary between sound and noise `` ( Edwards 2001 , pp . 326–27 ) .
Techniques which may create or be used with  ध्वनि द्रव्यमान शामिल विस्तारित तकनीकों ऐसे as मूक पीतल or स्ट्रिंग्स ,  flutter tonguing , wide vibrato , extreme ranges , and glissandos .
Composers and works include Barbara Kolb , Pauline Oliveros ' Sound Patterns  लिये कोरस ( 1961 ) , norma beecroft 's इससे सपनो of पीतल लिये  chorus ( 1963–1964 ) , and Nancy Van de Vate .
Beecroft `` blurs individual pitches in favor of a collective timbre through the use of vocal and  इंस्ट्रूमेंटल क्लस्टर , choral वाक , narrator  , and a wash of sounds from an electronic tape . ''
( ibid  )
A very early example is the opening of Jean-Féry Rebel 's ballet Les Elémens (  1737–38 ) , जहाँ अराजकता is represented by a धीरे cumulating  orchestral cluster of all seven notes of the D minor scale ( Henck 2004 , pp . 52–54 ) .
A later example is the third movement of Ruth Crawford Seeger 's String Quartet  1931 ( nonesuch h-71280 ) जबकि अधिक recently  Phill Niblock 's multiple drone based music serves as an example .
The use of `` chords approaching timbres '' begins with Debussy and  edgard varèse प्रायः carefully scored व्यक्तिगत इंस्ट्रूमेंटल भाग so कि वे होता फ्यूज into  one ensemble timbre or sound mass ( Erickson 1975 , pp . 18 and 21 ) .
Other examples include European  `` textural '' रचनाएं of the fifties और sixties ऐसे  as Krzysztof Penderecki 's Threnody to the Victims of Hiroshima ( 1959 ) and György Ligeti 's works featuring micropolyphony in works like Atmosphères ( 1961 ) and his Requiem ( 1963-65 ) .
Other composers with works using this technique include Henryk  górecki , karel husa , witold lutosławski , kazimierz serocki  , and Steven Stucky .
ध्वनि द्रव्यमान तकनीकों भी appear  in the music of George Crumb ( Anon . n.d. ) .
Students attending a lecture on linear  बीजगणित at the हेलसिंकी विश्वविद्यालयों of प्रौद्योगिकी
Pupils in rural  सूडान , 2002
A student is a learner , or someone who  attends an शैक्षणिक  institution .
In some nations , the English term ( or its cognate in another language ) is reserved for those who attend university ,  जबकि a schoolchild अंतर्गत the आयु of अठारह is पुकारा a pupil in अंग्रेज़ी ( or an समतुल्य  in other languages ) , although in the United States a person enrolled in grades K–12 is often called a student .
In its widest use ,  छात्र is प्रयुक्त  for anyone who is learning .
Australia is a continent comprising mainland  ऑस्ट्रेलिया , तस्मानिया , नई गिनी , seram , संभवतः timor , और neighbouring आइलैंड्स  .
The continent is sometimes known in technical  contexts by the names sahul , australinea or meganesia , to फर्क it  from the Australian mainland .
It is the smallest of the seven  परंपरागत महाद्वीपों in the अंग्रेज़ी  conception .
नई जीलैंड is नहीं भाग  of the continent of Australia , but of the separate , submerged continent of Zealandia .
Zealandia and Australia  हैं दोनो भाग of the wider regions  known as Australasia and Oceania .
The continent of Australia lies on a continental shelf overlain by shallow seas which divide it  into अनेक landmasses — the अराफुरा समुद्र और टोरेस जलसन्धि between मेनलैंड ऑस्ट्रेलिया और नई गिनी , और बास जलसन्धि  between mainland Australia and Tasmania .
When sea levels were lower during the Pleistocene ice age ,  सहित the पिछला glacial अधिकतम परिचय 18,000 bc , वे यहूद कनेक्ट  by dry land .
During the past ten thousand years , rising sea levels overflowed the lowlands and separated  the महाद्वीप into आज 's low-lying arid to semi-arid मेनलैंड और the दो mountainous  islands of New Guinea and Tasmania .
Geologically , a continent extends  to the किनारे of इसके महाद्वीपीय शेल्फ  , so the now-separate islands are considered part of the continent .
Due to the spread of animals , fungi and  पौधे आरपार the सिंगल pleistocene  landmass the separate lands have a related biota .
Central Park is nearly  twice as बिग as the संसार  's second-smallest country , Monaco .
historically इसके टंकी यहूद  important components of the city 's water supply .
Environmental issues in New York City are affected by the  नगर 's आकार , घनत्व , abundant पब्लिक परिवहन अवसंरचना  , and location at the mouth of the Hudson River .
New York 's population density  रै पर्यावरणीय फायदे  and cons .
It facilitates the highest mass transit  उपयोग in the संयुक्त राज्य , लकिन भी  concentrates pollution .
Gasoline consumption in the city is at the rate the national average was in the 1920s  , और ग्रीनहाउस गैस emissions हैं a भिन्न of the नेशनल औसत , at 7.1 मीट्रिक  tons per person per year , below San Francisco , at 11.2 metric tons , and the national average , at 24.5 metric tons .
New York City accounts for only 1 % of United States  ग्रीनहाउस गैस emissions जबकि  housing 2.7 % of its population .
In September 2012 , New York was named the # 1 ``  अमेरिका 's dirtiest नगर , '' by a travel+leisure readership सर्वेक्षण  that rated the environmental quality of 35 prominent cities in the United States .
Atlanta ( , stressed , locally ) is the capital of and the most  populous नगर in the u.S. राज्य of जॉर्जिया , साथ an अनुमानित  2011 population of 432,427 .
Atlanta is the cultural and economic center of the Atlanta metropolitan area , home to 5,457,831 people and the ninth largest   metropolitan area in the United States .
Atlanta is the  काउंटी सीट of fulton काउंटी , और  a small portion of the city extends eastward into DeKalb County .
Atlanta was established in 1837 at the intersection of two railroad lines , and the city rose from the  राख of the सिविल युद्ध to become a नेशनल बीच of  commerce .
In the decades following the Civil Rights Movement , during which the city  अर्जित a प्रतिष्ठा as `` too व्यस्त to नफ़रत '' लिये the प्रगतिशील दृश्य of इसके नागरिकों  and leaders , Atlanta attained international prominence .
Atlanta is the primary transportation hub of the Southeastern United States , via highway , railroad , and air , with Hartsfield–Jackson  अटलांटा अंतरराष्ट्रीय विमानक्षेत्र होने the संसार 's व्यस्ततम विमानक्षेत्र चूंकि 1998  .
Atlanta is considered an `` alpha ( - ) world city , '' and , with a gross domestic product of US $  270 अरब , atlanta’s अर्थव्यवस्था बाँधने 15th among संसार शहरों और छठे in the  nation .
Although Atlanta’s economy is considered diverse , dominant sectors include logistics , professional and business services , media  परिचालन , सरकारी प्रशासन  , and higher education .
topographically , अटलांटा is चिह्नित by रोलिंग  hills and dense tree coverage .
Revitalization of Atlanta 's  पड़ोस , initially spurred by the 1996 ओलंपिक , रै intensified  in the 21st century , altering the city 's demographics , politics , and culture .
A 1947 propaganda comic book  प्रकाशित by the catechetical गिल्ड शैक्षणिक  Society raising the specter of a Communist takeover
McCarthyism is the practice of  बनाना आरोपों of disloyalty , subversion ,  or treason without proper regard for evidence .
It also means `` the practice of making unfair allegations  or using अन्यायपूर्ण investigative तकनीकों , विशेषकर in अनुक्रम to सीमित  dissent or political criticism . ''
The term has its origins in the period in the United States known as  the दूसरी रेड scare , स्थायी roughly इससे 1950 to 1956 और characterized by heightened  fears of communist influence on American institutions and espionage by Soviet agents .
Originally coined to criticize the anti-communist pursuits of Republican U.S . Senator  जोसेफ मैकार्थी of विस्कॉन्सिन , `` mccarthyism '' जल्द took on a broader  meaning , describing the excesses of similar efforts .
The term is also now used more generally to describe reckless ,  unsubstantiated आरोपों , as खूब  as demagogic attacks on the character or patriotism of political adversaries .
During  the मैकार्थी era , हज़ारों of अमेरिकी यहूद अभियुक्त of होने साम्यवादियों or कम्युनिस्ट  sympathizers and became the subject of aggressive investigations and questioning before government or private-industry panels , committees and agencies .
The primary  लक्ष्य of ऐसे suspicions यहूद सरकारी  employees , those in the entertainment industry , educators and union activists .
Suspicions were often given credence despite inconclusive or  questionable प्रमाण , और the स्तर of threat posed by a व्यक्ति 's रियल or supposed वामपंथी  associations or beliefs was often greatly exaggerated .
Many people suffered loss of employment and/or  विनाश of उनके करियर ; कुछ भी  suffered imprisonment .
Most of these punishments came about through trial verdicts later overturned , laws that would be declared unconstitutional , dismissals for reasons later declared illegal or  actionable , or extra-legal प्रक्रियाओं कि  would come into general disrepute .
The most famous examples of McCarthyism include the speeches , investigations , and hearings of Senator McCarthy himself ; the Hollywood blacklist ,  संबद्ध साथ hearings conducted by the हाउस un-american क्रियाएँ कमेटी ( huac ) ; और the विभिन्न anti-communist क्रियाएँ of the संघीय  Bureau of Investigation ( FBI ) under Director J. Edgar Hoover .
McCarthyism was a widespread social and cultural  घटना कि प्रभावित सब स्तर of समाज  and was the source of a great deal of debate and conflict in the United States .
Napoleon is a fictional character and the main antagonist in George  ऑरवेल 's एनिमल  Farm .
While he is  at पहला a आम फार्म सुअर  , he gets rid of Snowball , another pig which shares the power .
He then takes advantage of the animals ' uprising against their masters to eventually become  the tyrannical `` अध्यक्ष of  Animal Farm , '' which he turns into a dictatorship .
वरुण लोगो
The NEPTUNE Canada project  is the world’s पहला regional-scale भाटे समंदर वेधशाला कि plugs सीधे  into the Internet .
Since December 2009 , it has allowed people to `` surf '' the seafloor while  समंदर वैज्ञानिकों चलाएं deep-water प्रयोग  from labs and universities around the world .
Along with its sister project , VENUS  , वरुण offers a अद्वितीय दृष्टिकोण to समंदर  science .
Traditionally , ocean scientists have relied on infrequent ship cruises or space-based satellites to carry  आउट उनके शोध , जबकि the वरुण प्रोजेक्ट उपयोग a remotely संचालित क्रॉलर  .
The Coronet was  a full-size car इससे चकमा in the 1950s , initially the  division 's highest trim line but , starting in 1955 , the lowest trim line .
In the 1960s , the name was  transferred to चकमा 's mid-size  entry .
ARM9 is an ARM  वास्तुकला 32-bit  RISC CPU family .
Commonwealth is a traditional  अंग्रेज़ी पद लिये a राजनैतिक  community founded for the common good .
Historically , it has sometimes been synonymous  साथ ``  republic `` .
More recently it has  महरूम प्रयुक्त लिये fraternal एसोसिएशन  of some sovereign nations .
Most notably , the Commonwealth of Nations , an association primarily of former members of  the अंग्रेजों साम्राज्य , is प्रायः referred to as बस  `` the Commonwealth '' .
The September 11 attacks ( also referred to as September 11 ,  सितंबर 11th , or 9/11 ) यहूद a श्रेणी of चार समन्वित आतंकवादी हमले शुभारम्भ by the इस्लामी  terrorist group al-Qaeda upon the United States in New York City and the Washington , D.C. area on September 11 , 2001 .
Four passenger airliners  यहूद hijacked by 19 al-qaeda आतंकवादी  so they could be flown into buildings in suicide attacks .
Two of those planes , American Airlines Flight 11 and United Airlines Flight 175 ,  यहूद क्रैश into the उत्तर और दक्षिण मीनारें , क्रमशः , of the संसार व्यापार बीच जटिल in नई यॉर्क नगर  .
Within two hours , both towers collapsed with debris and the resulting fires causing partial or complete collapse of all other buildings in the WTC complex  , as खूब as प्रमुख क्षति to टेन अन्य विशाल surrounding structures  .
A third plane , American Airlines  उड़ान 77 , थी क्रैश into the प्रस्तुतीकरण ( the मुख्यालय of the संयुक्त  States Department of Defense ) , leading to a partial collapse in its western side .
The fourth plane , United Airlines Flight 93 , was targeted at the United States  कैपिटल in वॉशिंगटन , d.C. , लकिन क्रैश into  a field near Shanksville , Pennsylvania , after its passengers tried to overcome the hijackers .
In total , almost 3,000 people died in the attacks , including the  227 नागरिकों और 19  hijackers aboard the four planes .
suspicion जल्दी  fell on al-Qaeda .
Although  the समूह 's नेता , ओसामा बिन लादेन , initially अस्वीकृत  any involvement , in 2004 he claimed responsibility for the attacks .
al-qaeda और बिन लादेन cited u.S. support  of Israel , the presence of U.S. troops in Saudi Arabia , and sanctions against Iraq as motives for the attacks .
The United States responded to the attacks by launching the War on Terror and invading Afghanistan to  depose the तालिबान , जिससे था harbored  al-Qaeda .
Many countries strengthened their anti-terrorism legislation  और विस्तारित विधि प्रवर्तन  powers .
Having evaded capture for years , bin Laden was located and killed  by u.S. शक्तियां in may 2011  .
The destruction of the Twin  मीनारें और अन्य गुण caused गंभीर क्षति to the अर्थव्यवस्था of निम्नतर  Manhattan and had a significant effect on global markets .
क्लीनअप of the संसार  Trade Center site was completed in May 2002 , and the Pentagon was repaired within a year .
Numerous memorials have been constructed , including the National  सितंबर 11 मेमोरियल & संग्रहालय in नई यॉर्क , the प्रस्तुतीकरण  Memorial , and the Flight 93 National Memorial in Pennsylvania .
After a lengthy delay , the One World Trade Center is expected to be completed at  मैदान शून्य in नई यॉर्क नगर in 2013  .
Crater  झील नेशनल पार्क is a  United States National Park located in southern Oregon .
Established in 1902  , crater झील नेशनल पार्क is the पांचवां oldest नेशनल  park in the United States and the only one in the state of Oregon .
The park encompasses the caldera of Crater Lake , a  remnant of a नष्ट ज्वालामुखी  , Mount Mazama , and the surrounding hills and forests .
The lake is deep at its deepest point , which makes it the deepest lake in the United  राज्य , the दूसरी deepest in उत्तर अमेरिका और the नवीं deepest  in the world .
Crater Lake is often  referred to as the सातवाँ deepest झील in the संसार , लकिन इस पूर्व लिस्टिंग excludes the लगभग गहराई of subglacial  Lake Vostok in Antarctica , which resides under nearly of ice , and the recent report of a maximum depth for Lake O'Higgins /San Martin , located on the border of Chile and Argentina .
However , when comparing its  औसत गहराई of to the औसत गहराई of अन्य गहन झीलों , crater  Lake becomes the deepest in the Western Hemisphere and the third deepest in the world .
the प्रभावशाली औसत गहराई of इस volcanic झील is due to the nearly सममित  deep caldera formed 7,700 years ago during the violent climactic eruptions and subsequent collapse of Mount Mazama and the relatively moist climate that is typical of the crest of the Cascade Range .
The caldera rim ranges in  उन्नयन इससे  .
The United States Geological  सर्वेक्षण benchmarked उन्नयन of the झील  surface itself is .
This  नेशनल पार्क encompasses  .
Crater Lake has no streams  बहती into or आउट of it  .
सब जल कि enters the झील is  eventually lost from evaporation or subsurface seepage .
The lake 's water commonly has a striking blue hue , and the lake is  re-filled entirely  from direct precipitation in the form of snow and rain .
The  परम् अदालत of the संयुक्त  States is the highest court in the United States .
It has ultimate ( and largely discretionary ) appellate  क्षेत्राधिकार over सब संघीय न्यायालयों और  over state court cases involving issues of federal law , and original jurisdiction over a small range of cases .
The Court ,  जिससे meets in the संयुक्त राज्य परम् अदालत भवन in वॉशिंगटन , d.C. , consists of a  chief justice and eight associate justices who are nominated by the President and confirmed by the United States Senate .
Once appointed , justices have life tenure unless they resign , retire  , or हैं removed बाद महाभियोग  .
Conroe is the seat of  मोंटगोमरी काउंटी और जलप्रपात  within the metropolitan area .
It is  स्तिथ परिचय  north of Houston .
As of July 2011 , the city population was  58,973 , up इससे 36,811 in 2000  .
The Book of Mormon is a sacred text of the Latter Day Saint movement , which adherents believe contains writings of ancient prophets who lived on the American continent  इससे लगभग 2200 bc to ad  421 .
It was first published  in कूच 1830 by जोसेफ स्मिथ as the किताब of mormon : an खाता लिखा  by the Hand of Mormon upon Plates Taken from the Plates of Nephi .
According to Smith 's account , and also according to the  किताब 's कथा , the किताब of mormon थी originally लिखा  in otherwise unknown characters referred to as `` reformed Egyptian `` engraved on golden plates .
Smith claimed that the last prophet to contribute to the book , a  man नामित moroni , दफ्न it in a हिल in present-day नई यॉर्क और तब लौटे  to earth in 1827 as an angel , revealing the location of the book to Smith and instructing him to translate and disseminate it as evidence of the restoration of Christ 's true church in the latter days .
The Book of Mormon has a number of original and distinctive doctrinal discussions on subjects such as the fall of Adam and Eve ,  the प्रकृति of the प्रायश्चित , eschatology , मोचन इससे शारीरिक और आध्यात्मिक मौत ,  and the organization of the latter-day church .
The pivotal event of the book is an appearance of Jesus  मसीह to the americas shortly  after his resurrection .
The Book of Mormon is the earliest of the unique writings of the Latter Day Saint movement , the denominations of which typically regard the text not only as scripture  लकिन भी as a ऐतिहासिक रिकार्ड of परमेश्वर 's dealings साथ the प्राचीन  inhabitants of the Americas .
The Book of Mormon is  विभाजित into छोटी किताबे , titled बाद the individuals नामित as प्राथमिक लेखक  and , in most versions , divided into chapters and verses .
It is written in English ,  बहुत समान to the जल्दी आधुनिक अंग्रेज़ी भाषाई स्टाइल of the किंग  James Version of the Bible , and has since been fully or partially translated into 108 languages .
An enlisted rank ( also known as an  आयोजिक ग्रेड or आयोजिक रेट ) is , in सबसे militaries , कोई रैंक  below that of a commissioned officer or warrant officer .
The term can also be inclusive of  non-commissioned  officers .
In most cases , enlisted service personnel perform jobs specific to their own occupational specialty , as opposed to the more  generalized कमांड जिम्मेदारियों of commissioned अधिकारियों  .
`` What a Wonderful World '' is a song written by Bob Thiele ( as `` George  डगलस '' ) और जार्ज दाउद वेइस .
It was first recorded by Louis Armstrong and  released as a सिंगल in  1967 .
Thiele and Weiss  यहूद दोनो prominent in the म्यूज़िक संसार ( thiele  as a producer and Weiss as a composer/performer ) .
Armstrong 's recording  थी inducted in the  Grammy Hall of Fame in 1999 .
The publishing for this song is  नियंत्रित by मेमोरी लेन म्यूज़िक समूह , कार्लिन म्यूज़िक corp.  , and Bug Music , Inc .
1908 poster advertising  gaumont 's ध्वनि films  .
The Chronomégaphone ,  designed लिये विशाल हॉल , employed  compressed air to amplify the recorded sound .
A sound film is a  गति चित्र साथ synchronized ध्वनि  , or sound technologically coupled to image , as opposed to a silent film .
The first  ज्ञात पब्लिक प्रदर्शनी of प्रक्षिप्त ध्वनि films took प्लेस in पेरिस in 1900 , लकिन  decades would pass before sound motion pictures were made commercially practical .
Reliable synchronization was difficult to achieve with  the जल्दी sound-on-disc प्रणालियों , और प्रवर्धन और रिकॉर्डिंग विशेषता यहूद  also inadequate .
Innovations in  sound-on-film led to the पहला वाणिज्यिक स्क्रीनिंग of छोटी  motion pictures using the technology , which took place in 1923 .
The  प्राथमिक कदम in the व्यावसायीकरण  of sound cinema were taken in the mid- to late 1920s .
At first , the sound films incorporating synchronized dialogue—known as ``  talking तस्वीरें '' , or `` टॉकीज़ '' —were exclusively शॉर्ट्स ; the earliest feature-length फिल्मों  with recorded sound included only music and effects .
The first feature film  originally प्रस्तुत as a talkie थी the  Jazz Singer , released in October 1927 .
A major hit , it was made with Vitaphone , the  अग्रणी ब्रांड of sound-on-disc  technology .
Sound-on-film , however , would soon become  the मानक लिये talking तस्वीरें  .
By the early 1930s , the  टॉकीज़ यहूद a वैश्विक घटना  .
In the United States , they helped secure Hollywood 's position as  एक of the संसार 's सबसे शक्तिशाली cultural/commercial प्रणालियों  ( see Cinema of the United States ) .
In Europe ( and , to a lesser degree , elsewhere ) the new development was treated with suspicion by many  filmmakers और आलोचकों , जो चिंतित कि a फ़ोकस on संवाद होता subvert the अद्वितीय aesthetic virtues of  soundless cinema .
In Japan , where the popular film tradition integrated silent  फिल्म और सजीव गायन प्रदर्शन , talking  pictures were slow to take root .
In India , sound was the transformative element that led to the rapid expansion of the nation 's  फिल्मी industry—the सबसे उत्पादक ऐसे उद्योग in the संसार चूंकि the जल्दी  1960s .
African people are natives or inhabitants  of अफ़्रीकी और लोगों  of African descent .
The Australian Recording Industry Association Music Awards ( commonly known as ARIA Music Awards or ARIA Awards ) is an annual series of awards  नाइट्स celebrating the ऑस्ट्रेलियाई म्यूज़िक उद्योग , put on by the ऑस्ट्रेलियाई  Recording Industry Association ( ARIA ) .
The event has been held annually since 1987 and encompasses the general genre-specific and popular awards ( these are what is usually being referred to as `` the ARIA awards '' ) as well as Fine Arts Awards and Artisan Awards ( held separately from 2004 ) , Lifetime Achievement Awards and ARIA Hall of Fame – held  separately इससे 2005 to 2010 लकिन लौटे to the सामान्य रस्म  in 2011 .
For 2010 , ARIA introduced public voted  पुरस्कार लिये the पहला  time .
जीतना , or भी होने मनोनीत लिये , an aria पुरस्कार परिणाम in a लॉट of मीडिया ध्यान  on an artist , and usually increases recording sales several-fold – in 2005 , for example , after Ben Lee won three awards , his album Awake Is the New Sleep jumped from No . 31 to No . 5 in the ARIA Charts , its highest position .
For-profit  शिक्षा ( भी ज्ञात as the शिक्षा सेवाएं  industry or proprietary education ) refers to educational institutions operated by private , profit -seeking businesses .
वहीँ हैं तीन  types of for-profit schools .
One type is  ज्ञात as an शैक्षणिक प्रबन्धन संगठन ( भावनाएं ) ,  and these are primary and secondary educational institutions .
EMOs work with school districts  or चार्टर स्कूलों , using  public funds to finance operations .
The majority of for-profit schools in the K–12 sector in America  फलन as emos , और have grown in क्रमांक in  the mid-2000s .
The other major category of for-profit  स्कूलों हैं post-secondary संस्थानों जिससे operate  as businesses , receiving fees from each student they enroll .
A third type of for-profit schools , which is less prevalent in the United States , are K–12 schools  जिससे operate as व्यवसायों .
EMOs function differently from  चार्टर स्कूलों निर्मित in अनुक्रम to carry आउट a particular शिक्षण pedagogy ; सबसे चार्टर स्कूलों हैं mission-oriented  , while EMOs and other for-profit institutions are market-oriented .
While supporters argue that the profit motive encourages efficiency , this  व्यवस्था रै भी drawn विवाद  and criticism .
Kevin Carey , director of the education policy program of the New American Foundation said in a 2010 column in The Chronicle of Higher Education that `` For-profits exist in large part to fix educational market  असफलताओं बाएँ by परंपरागत संस्थानों , और वे लाभ by सेवारत विद्यार्थी कि पब्लिक और निजी nonprofit संस्थानों too प्रायः ignore  . ''
He also noted that `` There 's no  शक कि the worst for-profits हैं निर्मम exploiting  the commodified college degree .
But they did n't  commodify it in the  first place . ''
amendment xxii  in the National Archives
The Twenty-second Amendment of the United States Constitution sets a term limit for election to  the दफ्तर of अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त  States .
Congress passed  the amendment on  March 21 , 1947 .
It was ratified by the  आवश्यक क्रमांक of राज्य  on February 27 , 1951 .
This is an episode guide for the  दुश्मनी श्रेणी bobobo-bo  Bo-bobo .
This list encompasses every  एपीसोड , शुरूआत साथ the असली japanese-language शीर्षक as वे aired  on TV Asahi , followed by the title used in the English dubbed version airing in the United States on Cartoon Network .
A short summary will follow , introducing the  एपीसोड और referring to कुछ of the  gags , but not giving the complete summaries to the episodes .
All names and some of the references will be the ones used  इससे the english-language संस्करण to avoid भ्रम  .
Japanese  names may be प्रस्तुत बाद the डब  name in parentheses .
This article is about the  पब्लिक पार्क in नई यॉर्क  City .
For other uses , see Central  पार्क ( बहुविकल्पी  ) .
Central Park is a public park at  the बीच of मैनहटन  in New York City .
The park initially opened in  1857 , on of city-owned जमीन ( it is 843  acres today ) .
In 1858 , Frederick  विधि olmsted और calvert vaux जीती  a design competition to improve and expand the park with a plan they entitled the Greensward Plan .
Construction began the same  साल , जारी दौरान the अमरीकी  Civil War , and was completed in 1873 .
Central Park is the most  visited शहरी पार्क in  the United States .
designated a नेशनल ऐतिहासिक लैंडमार्क in 1962 , the पार्क is फिलहाल  managed by the Central Park Conservancy under contract with the city government .
The Conservancy is a non-profit  संगठन कि contributes 83.5 % of सेंट्रल पार्क 's $ 37.5 लाख  annual budget , and employs 80.7 % of the park 's maintenance staff .
TracFone Wireless , Inc. is a prepaid wireless service provider operating in the United States including  प्यूर्टो रीको और the us वर्जिन आइलैंड्स और is a subsidiary of मैक्सिको 's largest दूरसंचार प्रदाता , américa  Móvil .
As a Mobile Virtual Network Operator ( MVNO ) , TracFone Wireless holds multiple agreements with the US largest wireless  दूरसंचार कंपनियाँ to utilize उनके संजाल to provide सेवा सहित those of verizon , at &  T , Sprint , and T-Mobile .
TracFone Wireless offers its wireless products under multiple brands which each also offer distinctive service plans , the brands include  tracfone , net10 बेतार , सीधा बात , safelink बेतार , telcel américa और सरल  Mobile .
A  पकड़ें dredge
Dredging is an excavation  कार्यकलाप or आपरेशन प्रायः carried आउट at तनिक partly भाटे , in उथले समंदर or भैस जल क्षेत्रों  with the purpose of gathering up bottom sediments and disposing of them at a different location .
इस तकनीक is प्रायः प्रयुक्त  to keep waterways navigable .
It is also used as a way to  replenish बालू on कुछ पब्लिक समुद्रतट , जहाँ बालू रै महरूम  lost because of coastal erosion .
Dredging is also used as a technique for fishing for certain  प्रजाति of खाद्य क्लेम और केकड़े , देखिए  fishing dredge .
A dredger ( or “dredge” as is the general usage in the Americas ) is any  यंत्र , यंत्र , or पोत कि is प्रयुक्त to excavate और हटाएँ सामग्री  from the bottom of a body of water .
For example , a scoop attached to  the समाप्त of a रस्सी or ध्रुव by जिससे a man can चित्रण  sediments up from the bottom of a pond is a dredger .
Developing this idea further , a  motorized क्रेन equipped साथ a खीचें बाल्टी or clamshell ( grabber ) कि  is used to scoop material from the bottom of a body of water is also a dredger .
The crane could be located on the bank , or  शायद आरोहित  on a barge .
If the  क्रेन is आरोहित on a barge ,  the entire vessel is referred to as a dredger .
The process of dredging creates spoils ( excess material ) , which are carried  दूर इससे the dredged क्षेत्रफल .
Dredging can produce materials for land reclamation or other purposes ( usually  construction-related ) , और रै भी historically निभाई  a significant role in gold mining .
Dredging can create disturbance in aquatic ecosystems ,  प्रायः साथ प्रतिकूल impacts  .
Cleveland Volcano in the Aleutian  आइलैंड्स of अलास्का photographed इससे  the International Space Station , May 2006 .
Ash plumes reached a height  of 19 km दौरान the climactic फटना at माउंट  Pinatubo , Philippines in 1991 .
A  ज्वालामुखी is an खोलने , or rupture , in a ग्रह  's surface or crust , which allows hot magma , volcanic ash and gases to escape from the magma chamber below the surface .
Volcanoes are generally found where tectonic plates  हैं diverging or converging  .
A mid-oceanic ridge , for  उदाहरण the mid-atlantic लकीरें , रै उदाहरण of ज्वालामुखी caused by  divergent tectonic plates pulling apart ; the Pacific Ring of Fire has examples of volcanoes caused by convergent tectonic plates coming together .
By contrast , volcanoes are usually not created where  दो tectonic प्लेटों स्लाइड  past one another .
Volcanoes can also  रूप जहाँ वहीँ is stretching और thinning of the धरती 's क्रस्ट in the इंटीरियर्स  of plates , e.g. , in the East African Rift , the Wells Gray-Clearwater volcanic field and the Rio Grande Rift in North America .
This type of volcanism falls  अंतर्गत the छतरियाँ of `` थाली परिकल्पना  '' volcanism .
Volcanism away from plate boundaries has also  महरूम समझाया as mantle plumes  .
These so-called `` hotspots `` ,  लिये उदाहरण हवाई , हैं postulated  to arise from upwelling diapirs with magma from the core–mantle boundary , 3,000 km deep in the Earth .
Erupting volcanoes can pose many  जोखिमों , नहीं तभी in the तात्कालिक  vicinity of the eruption .
Volcanic ash can be a threat to aircraft , in particular those with jet engines where ash particles can be melted by the  ऊँची ऑपरेटिंग तापमान  .
Large eruptions can affect temperature as ash and droplets of sulfuric acid obscure the sun and cool the Earth 's lower atmosphere or  क्षोभमण्डल ; however , वे भी अवशोषित ऊष्मा radiated up इससे the धरती  , thereby warming the stratosphere .
Historically , so-called volcanic  सर्दियों have caused अनर्थकारी अकाल  .
Benedict Arnold ( June 14 , 1801 ) was a  सामान्य दौरान the अमरीकी क्रांतिकारी युद्ध जो originally लड़ा लिये the अमरीकी  Continental Army but defected to the British Army .
While a general on the American side  , he प्राप्त कमांड of the फोर्ट at वेस्ट पाइंट , नई यॉर्क  , and planned to surrender it to the British forces .
After the plan was exposed in  सितंबर 1780 , he थी commissioned  into the British Army as a brigadier general .
Born in Connecticut , Arnold was a  व्यापारी ऑपरेटिंग जहाजों on the अटलांटिक समंदर  when the war broke out in 1775 .
After joining the  growing  army outside Boston , he distinguished himself through acts of intelligence and bravery .
His actions included the Capture of Fort Ticonderoga in 1775 , defensive and delaying tactics despite losing the Battle of Valcour Island on Lake Champlain in 1776 , the  बैटल of ridgefield , कनेक्टिकट ( बाद जिससे he थी प्रचारित to प्रमुख सामान्य ) , परिचालन in राहत of the घेरा of फोर्ट stanwix , और कुंजी क्रियाएँ दौरान the pivotal  Battles of Saratoga in 1777 , in which he suffered leg injuries that ended his combat career for several years .
Despite Arnold  's सफलताओं , he थी passed over लिये प्रमोशन by the महाद्वीपीय  Congress while other officers claimed credit for some of his accomplishments .
Adversaries in  सैन्य और राजनैतिक वृत्त brought आरोप of भ्रष्टाचार  or other malfeasance , but most often he was acquitted in formal inquiries .
Congress  investigated उसके खाते और मिला  he was indebted to Congress after spending much of his own money on the war effort .
Frustrated and bitter , Arnold decided  to बदलें पहलू in 1779 , और खोली रहस्य  negotiations with the British .
In July 1780 , he was offered ,  जारी to pursue और थी awarded  command of West Point .
Arnold 's scheme to surrender the fort to the British was exposed when American forces captured British Major John André  carrying papers कि  revealed the plot .
upon सीखना of आंद्रे 's कैप्चर , अर्नाल्ड fled bas the हडसन नदी to the अंग्रेजों  sloop-of-war Vulture , narrowly avoiding capture by the forces of George Washington , who had been alerted to the plot .
Arnold received a  आयोग as a ब्रिगेडियर सामान्य  in the British Army , an annual pension of £360 , and a lump sum of over £6,000 .
He led British forces on raids in Virginia ,  और विरूद्ध नई लंदन और groton , कनेक्टिकट , पहले the युद्ध  effectively ended with the American victory at Yorktown .
In the winter of 1782 , Arnold moved to  लंदन साथ उसके दूसरी बीवी , मार्गरेट  `` Peggy '' Shippen Arnold .
He was well received by King George III and  the tories लकिन खीझ upon by  the Whigs .
In 1787 , he returned to  the व्यापारी कारोबार साथ उसके बेटे रिचर्ड और  Henry in Saint John , New Brunswick .
He  लौटे to लंदन to settle  permanently in 1791 , where he died ten years later .
Because of  the रास्ता he बदला  sides , his name quickly became a in the United States for treason or betrayal .
His conflicting legacy is recalled in the  अस्पष्ट प्रकृति of कुछ of the memorials कि  have been placed in his honor .
Curtis Montague  schilling ( born नवम्बर 14 , 1966 ) is  a former American Major League Baseball right-handed pitcher and Video Game developer .
He helped lead the Philadelphia  फ़िलीज़ to the संसार श्रेणी in और जीती संसार श्रेणी  championships in with the Arizona Diamondbacks and in and with the Boston Red Sox .
Schilling retired with a  करियर postseason रिकार्ड  of 11–2 .
His .846 postseason winning percentage is a major-league record among  pitchers साथ at तनिक 10 निर्णय  .
After retiring , he founded Green Monster Games  जिससे थी renamed 38 studios  .
The  कम्पनी released kingdoms of amalur : हिसाब in फ़रवरी 2012 , लकिन बस तीन महीने बाद , schilling  laid off his entire staff amid severe financial troubles that resulted in the company missing payroll the previous week .
स्टार युद्धों is an अमरीकी एपिक स्पेस  opera franchise centered on a film series created by George Lucas .
The film  श्रेणी रै शाखित a मीडिया मताधिकार बाहर the फिल्मी श्रेणी पुकारा the विस्तारित ब्रह्मांड सहित  books , television series , computer and video games , and comic books .
These supplements to the film trilogies have resulted  in significant विकास of the श्रेणी  ' fictional universe .
These media  रखा the मताधिकार  active in the interim between the film trilogies .
The  मताधिकार portrays a आकाशगंगा कि is  described as far , far away in the distant past .
It commonly portrays Jedi as a representation of good , in  विरोध साथ the सिथ , उनके दुष्ट  counterpart .
Their weapon of choice , the lightsaber ,  is commonly पहचाना in लोकप्रिय  culture .
the fictional ब्रह्मांड भी  contains many themes , especially influences of philosophy and religion .
The  पहला फिल्मी in the श्रेणी थी originally released on may 25 , 1977 , अंतर्गत the शीर्षक स्टार युद्धों  , by 20th Century Fox , and became a worldwide pop culture phenomenon , followed by two sequels , released at three-year intervals .
Sixteen years after the release of the trilogy 's  फाइनल फिल्मी , the पहला in a नई  prequel trilogy of films was released .
The three  प्रीक्वेल films यहूद भी released at three-year intervals , साथ the फाइनल फिल्मी  of the trilogy released on May 19 , 2005 .
In October 2012 , The Walt Disney Company acquired Lucasfilm for $ 4.05 billion and announced that it  होता उपज तीन नई films , साथ the पहला फिल्मी  , Star Wars Episode VII , planned for release in 2015 .
20th Century Fox still retains the  वितरण अधिकारों to the पहला दो स्टार युद्धों trilogies , owning स्थाई अधिकारों लिये the असली  film Episode IV : A New Hope , while holding the rights to Episodes I–III , V and VI until May 2020 .
Reactions to the original trilogy were mostly positive , with the last film being  माना the weakest , जबकि the प्रीक्वेल त्रयी प्राप्त a अधिक मिश्रित प्रतिक्रिया , साथ सबसे of the तारीफ़ होने लिये  the final movie , according to most review aggregator websites .
All six of the main films in the series were also  मनोनीत लिये or जीती अकादमी पुरस्कार  .
All of the main films have been box office successes , with the overall box office revenue generated by the Star Wars films ( including the theatrical Star Wars :  the क्लोन युद्धों ) totalling $ 4.49 अरब , बनाना it the third-highest-grossing  film series .
The success has also  led to अनेक re-releases in  theaters for the series .
Plateletpheresis ( more accurately called thrombocytapheresis or thrombapheresis , though these names are rarely used ) is the process of collecting thrombocytes , more commonly called platelets , a  घटक of रक्त शामिल in रक्त clotting  .
The term specifically refers to the method of collecting the platelets , which is performed by a device used in blood donation that  separates the प्लेटलेट्स और रिटर्न अन्य portions of the रक्त to the  donor .
Platelet transfusion can be a life-saving procedure in preventing or treating  गंभीर जटिलताओं इससे bleeding और hemorrhage in मरीजों जो have विकार manifesting as thrombocytopenia ( कम platelet  count ) or platelet dysfunction .
This process may  भी be प्रयुक्त therapeutically to दावत विकार  resulting in extraordinarily high platelet counts such as essential thrombocytosis .
In computer networking , a port is an  application-specific or process-specific तन्त्र construct सेवारत as  a communications endpoint in a computer 's host operating system .
A port is associated with an IP address of the host ,  as खूब as the प्रकार of प्रोटोकॉल  used for communication .
The purpose of ports is to uniquely identify different applications or processes running on a single  कंप्यूटर और thereby enable उन्हें to share a सिंगल शारीरिक कनेक्शन  to a packet-switched network like the Internet .
The protocols that primarily use ports are the  हस्तांतरण परत प्रोटोकॉल , ऐसे as the हस्तांतरण कंट्रोल  Protocol ( TCP ) and the User Datagram Protocol ( UDP ) of the Internet Protocol Suite .
A port is identified for each address and protocol by a 16-bit number , commonly  ज्ञात as the बंदरगाहों क्रमांक  .
The port number , added to a computer 's IP address , completes the destination  पता लिये a संचार  session .
That is , data packets are routed across the network to a specific destination IP  पता , और तब , upon reaching the गंतव्य कंप्यूटर , हैं further  routed to the specific process bound to the destination port number .
Note that it  is the संयोजन of ip पता और बंदरगाहों  number together that must be globally unique .
Thus , different IP addresses or protocols may use the same port number for communication ; e.g. , on a given host or  इंटरफ़ेस यूडीपी और टीसीपी may उपयोग the वही बंदरगाहों क्रमांक , or on a मेजबान साथ दो अंतरफलक , दोनो पता may be संबद्ध  with a port having the same number .
Of the thousands of enumerated ports , about 250  well-known पोर्ट हैं सुरक्षित by सम्मेलन to पहचानो  specific service types on a host .
In the client-server model of  अनुप्रयोग वास्तुकला , पोर्ट हैं प्रयुक्त to provide a multiplexing सेवा on प्रत्येक server-side बंदरगाहों क्रमांक कि संजाल  clients connect to for service initiation , after which communication can be reestablished on other connection-specific port numbers .
Area code 479 is the telephone area code serving thirteen counties in northwest Arkansas , including the cities of Fort Smith , Fayetteville , Springdale , Rogers and Bentonville : the second , third , fourth ,  आठवीं और tenth-largest शहरों in the राज्य , क्रमशः  .
It was created in 2002 in a  विभाजित इससे क्षेत्रफल  code 501 .
Area code 479 serves Benton , Carroll ( split with area  कोड 870 ) , क्रॉफर्ड , फ्रैंकलिन , जॉनसन , लोगन , मैडिसन  , Polk , Pope , Scott , Sebastian , Washington and Yell Counties in Arkansas .
Arraignment is a formal reading of a criminal charging document in the presence of the  प्रतिवादी to inform the प्रतिवादी of  the charges against him or her .
In response to arraignment , the accused is  अपेक्षित to डालें a दलील  .
Acceptable pleas vary among  jurisdictions , लकिन वे generally शामिल ``  guilty '' , `` not guilty '' , and the peremptory pleas ( or pleas in bar ) setting out reasons why a trial can not proceed .
Pleas of `` nolo contendere ``  ( no प्रतियोगिता ) और the `` alford दलील `` हैं  allowed in some circumstances .
In England , Wales , Northern Ireland and Australia , arraignment is the first of eleven stages  in a दण्ड विचारण , और involves the क्लर्क of the अदालत पढना आउट the indictment  .
The defendant is asked  whether he or वो pleads अपराधी  or not guilty to each charge .
In federal courts of the United States , arraignment takes place  in दो चरण .
The first is called the initial arraignment and must take place within 48 hours of  an व्यक्तिगत 's गिरफ़्तार , 72 घंटों if  the individual was arrested on the weekend and not able to go before a judge until Monday .
During this arraignment the defendant is informed of the  स्थगित विधिक आरोप और is सूचित of उसके or उसके सही  to retain counsel .
The presiding judge also  decides at कया राशि  , if any , to set bail .
During the second arraignment , a post-indictment  arraignment or pia , the प्रतिवादी  is allowed to enter a plea .
Geoffrey Chaucer ( ; c. 1343 – 25 October 1400 ) , known as the Father of English literature , is widely  माना the महानतम अंग्रेज़ी कवि of the मध्य आयु और  was the first poet to have been buried in Poet 's Corner of Westminster Abbey .
While he achieved fame during his lifetime as an author , philosopher , alchemist and astronomer , composing a scientific  treatise on the astrolabe लिये उसके टेन year-old बेटे लुईस , चासर भी कायम an क्रियाशील करियर in the सिविल सेवा  as a bureaucrat , courtier and diplomat .
Among his many works , which include  the किताब of the duchess , the हाउस of कीर्ति , the लेजेंड of शुभ महिलाओं और troilus  and Criseyde , he is best known today for The Canterbury Tales .
Chaucer is a crucial figure in developing the legitimacy of the vernacular , Middle English , at a time when the  प्रबल साहित्यिक भाषाएं in इंग्लैण्ड यहूद फ्रेंच और लैटिन  .
The Chicago Blizzard of 1979 was a major blizzard that  प्रभावित उत्तरी इलिनोइस और उत्तरपश्चिम इंडियाना , u.S. on जनवरी 13  – January 14 , 1979 .
of snow fell on January 13  अलोन , सेटिंग a नई रिकार्ड  for snow in one calendar day .
By the  समाप्त of जनवरी 14  , of snow had fallen .
The  ठंडा मौसम  and snowfall throughout the rest of January and February resulted in frozen tracks throughout the Chicago 'L ' system .
Commuters crowded  onto cta बसें , जल्दी overwhelming क्षमता , resulting  in usual bus commutes of 30-45 minutes taking up to several hours .
To avoid huge snowdrifts in the  गलियों , the overcrowded बसें यहूद obliged to लो numerous  detours , adding additional time to the commute .
Deployment of plows was significantly  विलम्बित और जब वे आखिरकार appeared वे struggled to रखना up साथ the  snowfall .
Much of the snow remained unremoved throughout the next 2 months , causing ongoing public  पारगमन देरी और significant समस्याएं साथ  trash collection .
The city 's inadequate  जवाब to the blizzard थी blamed primarily on महापौर माइकल  Bilandic , who had assumed the post after the 1976 death of Richard J. Daley .
Newspaper articles at the time blasted Bilandic ; Jane Byrne , Bilandic 's main political rival in the Democratic primary ( who had previously worked with  bilandic in the डाले प्रशासन और महरूम fired by bilandic जब the दो could नहीं मिलेंगी साथ ) , capitalized on इस और गई on to शिकस्त bilandic  in the February 27 primary .
The 12-hour clock is a time  सम्मेलन in जिससे the 24 घंटों of the दिन हैं विभाजित into दो अवधि : a.m. ( इससे the लैटिन  ante meridiem , meaning `` before midday '' ) and p.m. ( post meridiem , `` after midday '' ) .
प्रत्येक काल consists of 12 घंटों  numbered : 12 ( acting as zero ) , 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 , 8 , 9 , 10 , and 11 .
The 12-hour clock was  विकसित over समय इससे the mid-second मिलेनियम  BC to the 16th century AD .
Health  बिता प्रति capita , in $ us ppp-adjusted , साथ the us और  Canada compared amongst other first world nations .
Comparison of the health care systems in Canada and the United States are often made by government ,  पब्लिक स्वास्थ्य और पब्लिक नीति विश्लेषकों  .
The two countries had similar health  परवाह प्रणालियों पहले कनाडा reformed इसके प्रणाली in  the 1960s and 1970s .
The United  राज्य खर्च much अधिक  money on health care than Canada , on both a per-capita basis and as a percentage of GDP .
In 2006 , per-capita spending for  स्वास्थ्य परवाह in कनाडा थी us $ 3,678 ; in the  U.S. , US $ 6,714 .
The U.S.  खर्च 15.3 % of जीडीपी on स्वास्थ्य परवाह  in that year ; Canada spent 10.0 % .
In 2006 , 70 % of health care  बिता in कनाडा थी financed by सरकारी  , versus 46 % in the United States .
Total government spending per capita in the U.S. on health care was 23 % higher than Canadian  सरकारी बिता , और u.S. सरकारी व्यय on स्वास्थ्य  care was just under 83 % of total Canadian spending ( public and private ) though these statistics do n't take into account population differences .
Studies have come to  अलग conclusions परिचय the परिणाम  of this disparity in spending .
A 2007 review of all studies comparing health outcomes in Canada and the US in a Canadian peer-reviewed medical journal found that `` health outcomes may be superior in  मरीजों cared लिये in कनाडा बनाम the संयुक्त राज्य  , but differences are not consistent . ''
Life expectancy is longer in Canada , and its infant mortality rate is  निम्नतर than कि of the u.S. , लकिन वहीँ is बहस परिचय the underlying  causes of these differences .
One commonly cited comparison , the 2000 World Health Organization 's ratings of `` overall health service performance '' , which  प्रयुक्त a `` कम्पोजिट माप of उपलब्धि  in the level of health , the distribution of health , the level of responsiveness and fairness of financial contribution '' , ranked Canada 30th and the US 37th among 191 member nations .
This  पढ़ाई रेटेड the us `` responsiveness  '' , or quality of service for individuals receiving treatment , as 1st , compared with 7th for Canada .
While the average life expectancy for Canadians was 80.34 years compared with 78.6 years for residents of the US , simply comparing the  जीवन प्रत्याशा of दो समूह साथ अलग जातिगत मेकअप और अलग मोटापा दरों is संभावित नहीं an प्रभावी  way of determining which healthcare system is superior .
The WHO 's study methods  यहूद criticized by  some analyses .
Although there is a measure of consensus that life-expectancy and infant mortality mark the most reliable ways to compare nation-wide health care , assuming the population makeup is similar , a recent report by the Congressional Research Service carefully summarizes some recent data  और टीप the `` मुश्किल शोध  issues '' facing international comparisons .
Tarantulas comprise a group of often hairy and very large arachnids belonging to the Theraphosidae family of spiders ,  of जिससे लगभग 900 प्रजाति have महरूम पहचाना  .
This article only describes members of  theraphosidae , हालांकि कुछ अन्य सदस्यों of the वही suborder हैं commonly referred  to as `` tarantulas '' .
Most species of tarantulas are not dangerous to humans , and some  प्रजाति have become लोकप्रिय in the exotic  pet trade .
The ton  is a ईकाई of माप  .
It has a  long इतिहास और रै acquired  a number of meanings and uses over the years .
It is used  प्रधानतया as a ईकाई of वज़न , और  as a unit of volume .
It can also be used as a measure of energy , for truck  वर्गीकरण  , or as a colloquial term .
It is derived from the tun , the term  लागू to a बैरल of the  largest size .
This could contain a volume  between 210 और 256 गैलन ( 800 to 1000 l ) , जिससे could तौल  around 2,000 pounds ( 900 kg ) and occupy some of space .
In the  संयुक्त किंगडम the ton  is defined as ( avoirdupois pounds ) .
From 1965 the UK  embarked upon a कार्यक्रम of metrication और धीरे introduced मीट्रिक  units , including the tonne ( metric ton ) , a non-SI metric unit defined as 1000 kg .
The UK Weights and Measures Act 1985 explicitly excluded from use for trade many units and terms , including  the ton और the पद `` मीट्रिक ton '' लिये `` टन  ''
In the United  राज्य और formerly  Canada a ton is defined to be .
Where confusion is possible , the 2240 lb ton is called `` long ton `` and the 2000 lb ton ``  छोटी ton `` ; the टन is विशिष्ट by इसके स्पेलिंग  , but usually pronounced the same as ton , hence the US term `` metric ton '' .
in the uk the फाइनल `` e '' of `` टन  '' can also be pronounced ( /ˈtʌnɪ/ ) , or `` metric ton '' when it is necessary to make the distinction .
Where accuracy is required the  सही पद जरूर be  used , but for many purposes this is not necessary : the metric and long tons differ by only 1.6 % , and the short ton is within 11 % of both .
The ton is the heaviest unit of  वज़न referred to in colloquial  speech .
the पद `` ton ''  is also used to refer to a number of units of volume , ranging from in capacity .
It can also be  प्रयुक्त as a ईकाई of  energy , expressed as an equivalent of coal burnt , TNT detonated , or in refrigeration , ice melted .
In Britain  , ton is प्रयुक्त in कठबोली in  several contexts to mean `` 100 '' .
As a cost or a speed , a ton is widely  समझा to be £100 or 100  mph .
The Stanley  कप ( ) is the चैंपियनशिप ट्रॉफी awarded annually to  the National Hockey League ( NHL ) playoff winner after the conclusion of the Stanley Cup Finals .
Originally commissioned in 1892 as the Dominion Hockey Challenge Cup , the trophy is named for Lord Stanley of  preston , then- राज्यपाल सामान्य of कनाडा , जो awarded it to कनाडा 's top-ranking amateur बर्फ हॉकी क्लबों  , which the entire Stanley family supported , with the sons and daughters playing and promoting the game .
The first Cup was awarded  in 1893 to मॉन्ट्रियल  HC .
In 1915 , the two professional ice hockey organizations , the National Hockey Association ( NHA ) and the Pacific Coast Hockey  संघ ( pcha ) , पहुँचे a सज्जनों 's अनुबंध  in which their respective champions would face each other for the Stanley Cup .
After a series of league  मर्जर और फोल्ड , the स्टेनली `` प्रस्तुतीकरण कप '' थी स्थापित as  the de facto championship trophy of the NHL in 1926 and then the de jure NHL championship prize in 1947 .
There are actually three Stanley Cups : the original bowl of the ``  डोमिनियन हॉकी चुनौती कप '' , the सत्यापित ``  Presentation Cup '' , and the `` Replica Cup '' at the Hall of Fame .
the एनएचएल रै कायम प्रभावी  control over both the trophy itself and its associated trademarks .
Nevertheless , the NHL does not actually own the trophy  , लकिन बजाय उपयोग it by अनुबंध साथ the  two Trustees of the Cup .
The NHL has registered trademarks associated with the name and likeness of the Stanley Cup  , हालांकि the लीग 's सही to outright अपना trademarks संबद्ध  with a trophy it does not own has been disputed by some legal experts .
Unlike the trophies awarded by the other three major  पेशेवर खेल लीग of उत्तर अमेरिका , a नई स्टेनली  Cup is not made each year ; winners keep it until a new champion is crowned .
It is unusual among trophies , in that it has the names of all of the winning players  , कोच , प्रबन्धन  , and club staff engraved on its chalice .
Initially , a new band added each year caused the trophy  to grow in आकार , कमाई the उपनाम `` stovepipe  Cup '' .
In 1958 the modern one-piece Cup was designed with a  five-band बैरल जिससे could contain 13  winning teams per band .
To avoid the Stanley Cup from growing , when the bottom band is full , the oldest band is removed and preserved  in the हॉकी हॉल of कीर्ति , और a नई रिक्त  band added to the bottom .
It has been referred to as The Cup , Lord Stanley 's Cup ,  the पावन grail , or facetiously ( chiefly by sportswriters  ) as Lord Stanley 's Mug .
The Stanley Cup is  घिरी by numerous महापुरूष और परंपराओं , the oldest  of which is the celebratory drinking of champagne out of the cup by the winning team .
The original bowl was made of silver and is 18.5 centimetres  ( 7.28 इंच ) in ऊँचाई और 29 सेण्टीमीटर ( 11.42  inches ) in diameter .
The current Stanley Cup , topped with a copy of the original bowl , is made of a silver and nickel alloy ; it has a  ऊँचाई of 89.54 सेण्टीमीटर ( 35.25 इंच ) और weighs 15.5 गामा  ( 34.5 lb / 2 st 61⁄2 lb ) .
Since the 1914–15 season , the Cup has  महरूम जीती a संयुक्त 94 टाइम्स by 18  active NHL teams and five defunct teams .
Prior to that , the challenge cup was  आयोजित by नौ  different teams .
The Montreal Canadiens have won the Cup a record 24 times and are currently the last  canadian-based टोली in the एनएचएल to जीत the कप बाद जीतना it  in 1993 .
The Stanley Cup was  नहीं awarded in 1919 क्युकी of a स्पेनी फ्लू महामारी  , and in 2005 , as a consequence of the NHL lockout .
The Pineapple ( Ananas comosus ) is a tropical plant with edible multiple fruit consisting of  coalesced जामुन , और the सबसे economically significant  plant in the Bromeliaceae family .
pineapples may be cultivated इससे a क्राउन कटिंग of the फल , संभवतः  flowering in 20–24 months and fruiting in the following six months .
Pineapple does not ripen  significantly post-harvest  .
Pineapples are consumed fresh ,  पकाया , juiced , और preserved , और हैं मिला in a चौड़ी सरणी  of cuisines .
In addition to consumption , in the Philippines the pineapple 's leaves are used  to उपज the वस्त्र रेशा piña - employed as a घटक of वॉल  paper and furnishings , amongst other uses .
In computer science , an integer is a datum of integral data type , a data type  जिससे represents कुछ परिमित उपसमुच्चय of the गणितीय  integers .
अभिन्न आंकड़ा प्रकार may be of  different sizes and may or may not be allowed to contain negative values .
Integers are commonly  represented in a कंप्यूटर as a समूह of शब्दकोष  digits .
The size of  the समूहीकरण varies so the  set of integer sizes available varies between different types of computers .
Computer hardware nearly always provides a way to represent  a प्रोसेसर पंजीकरण or मेमोरी  address as an integer .
The Gordon Dam in Tasmania is a large  हाइड्रो सुविधा , साथ an संस्थापित  capacity of .
Hydroelectricity is the term referring to electricity generated by hydropower ; the production of electrical  शक्ति through the उपयोग of the गुरुत्वाकर्षक फ़ोर्स of  falling or flowing water .
It is the most widely used form of renewable energy , accounting for 16 percent of global electricity generation – 3,427 terawatt-hours of  विद्युत उत्पादन in 2010 , और is अपेक्षित to बढ़ाएँ परिचय 3.1 % प्रत्येक साल लिये the अगला 25 सालो  .
Hydropower is produced in 150 countries , with the  asia-pacific प्रदेश generating  32 percent of global hydropower in 2010 .
चीन is the largest hydroelectricity निर्माता , साथ 721 terawatt-hours  of production in 2010 , representing around 17 percent of domestic electricity use .
There are now three hydroelectricity plants larger than 10 GW : the Three Gorges Dam in China , Itaipu Dam across the Brazil/Paraguay border , and Guri  बांध in वेनेजुएला  .
The cost of hydroelectricity is  अपेक्षाकृत कम , बनाना it a प्रतिस्पर्धी  source of renewable electricity .
The average cost of electricity from a hydro  संयंत्र larger than 10 megawatts is 3 to 5 u.S. सेंट  per kilowatt-hour .
Hydro is also a flexible source of electricity since plants can be ramped up and down very  जल्दी to adapt to बदलना उर्जा मांगे  .
However , damming interrupts the  प्रवाह of नदियाँ और can नुक़सान लोकल  ecosystems , and building large dams and reservoirs often involves displacing people and wildlife .
Once a  hydroelectric जटिल is constructed , the प्रोजेक्ट produces no सीधा बर्बाद , और रै a considerably  lower output level of the greenhouse gas carbon dioxide ( ) than fossil fuel powered energy plants .
Wine boy at a  यूनानी symposium
The  इतिहास of वाइन spans हज़ारों of सालो और is  closely intertwined with the history of agriculture , cuisine , civilization and humanity itself .
Archaeological  प्रमाण suggests कि the earliest ज्ञात वाइन उत्पादन occurred  in what is now the country of Georgia around 7000 BCE , with other notable sites in Greater Iran dated 4500 BCE and Armenia 4100 BCE , respectively .
The world  's oldest ज्ञात वाइनरी ( दिनाँक to 3000 bce ) थी खोजा  in Areni-1 cave in a mountainous area of Armenia .
url_http  .
Increasingly clear archaeological evidence indicates that domestication of the  grapevine took प्लेस दौरान the जल्दी  Bronze Age in the Near East , Sumer and Egypt from around the third millennium BCE .
Evidence of the earliest wine production in  balkans रै महरूम uncovered at पुरातत्व  sites in northern Greece ( Macedonia ) , dated to 4500 BC .
These same sites also contain remnants of  the संसार  's earliest evidence of crushed grapes .
In Egypt , wine became a part of recorded history , playing an  महत्वपूर्ण भूमिका in प्राचीन ceremonial जीवन  .
Traces of wild wine dating from the second and first  सहस्राब्दियों bce have भी महरूम मिला in चीन  .
Moroccan wine  kasher लेबल  1930
The Jewish tradition and use of kosher  वाइन is डेटिंग वापस to biblical  times .
The long history of the use and production of wine  throughout प्राचीन इसराईल is समर्थित up by पुरातत्त्व  evidence .
भीतर the यहूदी  diaspora communities all around the globe , the traditional and religious use of kosher wine continued to this day .
Wine , linked in myth to Dionysus / Bacchus , was common in ancient Greece and Rome , and many of today 's  प्रमुख wine-producing regions of पश्चिमी यूरोपीय यहूद स्थापित  with Phoenician and , later , Roman plantations .
winemaking प्रौद्योगिकी improved considerably दौरान the समय of the रोमन साम्राज्य : अनेक अंगूर किस्में  and cultivation techniques were known ; the design of the wine press advanced ; and barrels were developed for storing and shipping wine .
Rashi , a medieval  फ्रेंच रब्बी और पुकारा the `` पिता '' of सब टीका  that followed on the Talmud and the Tanakh , earned his living as a vintner .
Following the  मनाही of रोम और इसके industrial-scale वाइन उत्पादन लिये निर्यात , the ईसाई  Church in medieval Europe also became a firm supporter of wine , necessary for celebration of the Catholic Mass . Whereas wine was forbidden in medieval Islamic cultures , its use in Christian libation was widely tolerated .
Geber and other Muslim chemists pioneered the distillation of wine for  इस्लामी औषधीय और औद्योगिक उद्देश्य ऐसे as परफ्यूम .
Wine production gradually increased , with consumption  burgeoning इससे the 15th  century onwards .
Wine  उत्पादन बच the विनाशकारी phylloxera जूं  of 1887 and eventually spread to numerous regions throughout the world .
जिले of वेस्ट बंगाल
The Indian state of West Bengal borders with Nepal , Bhutan , Bangladesh and the Indian states of Bihar , Jharkhand  , odisha , असम और सिक्किम  .
The Himalayas lies in the north of the state and  the खाड़ी of बंगाल is at the  south .
In between them , the river Ganges flows eastwards and its  प्रमुख distributary , the हुगली नदी , बहती दक्षिण to पहुँचें  the Bay of Bengal .
The  सिलीगुड़ी corridor , जिससे connects  North-East India with rest of the India , lies in the North Bengal region of the state .
geographically , वेस्ट बंगाल is विभाजित into a किस्में of regions— दार्जिलिंग हिमालयी हिल प्रदेश  , Terai and Doors region , North Bengal plains , Rarh region , Western plateau and high lands , coastal plains , Sunderbans and the Ganges Delta .
In 1947 , when India gained independence , the state of West Bengal was  formed साथ 14 जिले , as प्रति विभाजन योजना of the तब बंगाल प्रांत  of British India .
The former princely state Koch Bihar joined as a district in 1950 , and the former French enclave  chandannagore joined as भाग of the हुगली ज़िला  in 1954 .
The States Reorganisation Act of 1956 led to addition of Purulia district to the  राज्य और to enlargement of  West Dinajpur district .
Later ,  larger जिले  such as West Dinajpur , 24 Parganas and Midnapore were bifurcated .
वेस्ट बंगाल is अभी विभाजित  into nineteen districts under three divisions .
Districts  हैं administered  by District Magistrates , and divisions are administered by Divisional Commissioners .
कोलकाता , the पूंजी  of the state , constitutes the Kolkata district .
Other districts are further divided into administrative units such as  subdivisions और ब्लॉक , administered  by SDO and BDO , respectively .
The Panchayati Raj has a three-tier  ढांचा in the राज्य  .
The  परमाणु ईकाई is पुकारा a ग्राम पंचायत ,  which is the Panchayat organization for a collection of villages .
The block-level  संगठन हैं पुकारा पंचायत samiti  , and the district-level organizations are named Zilla Parishad .
The Caribbean ( or ; ; ; or more commonly Antilles ) is a region that consists of the Caribbean Sea , its islands ( some surrounded by the  caribbean समुद्र और कुछ bordering दोनो the caribbean समुद्र और the उत्तर  Atlantic Ocean ) , and the surrounding coasts .
The region is southeast of the Gulf of Mexico and the North American mainland , east of Central  अमेरिका , और उत्तर of दक्षिण अमेरिका  .
Situated largely on the Caribbean Plate , the  प्रदेश comprises अधिक than 700 आइलैंड्स  , islets , reefs , and cays .
( See the  सूची .  )
These islands generally form island arcs  कि delineate the पूर्वी और  northern edges of the Caribbean Sea .
The Caribbean islands ,  consisting of the वृहद antilles on the उत्तर और the lesser antilles on the दक्षिण और ईस्ट ( सहित the leeward antilles ) , हैं भाग of the somewhat larger  West Indies grouping , which also includes the Lucayan Archipelago ( comprising the Bahamas and Turks and Caicos Islands ) north of the Greater Antilles and Caribbean Sea .
In a wider sense , the mainland countries of Belize and Guyana –  historically और culturally भाग of the अंग्रेजों वेस्ट  Indies – may be included .
Geopolitically , the Caribbean islands are usually regarded as a subregion of North America and are organized into 30 territories including sovereign states , overseas departments , and  dependencies .
From January 3 , 1958 , to May 31 ,  1962 , वहीँ थी a short-lived देश पुकारा the संघ of  the West Indies composed of ten English-speaking Caribbean territories , all of which were then UK dependencies .
The West Indies cricket  टोली continues to represent अनेक  of those nations .
This is a list of the 221 towns and 13 cities  in the u.S. राज्य of  New Hampshire .
For each town/city , the table lists the county to which it belongs ,  इसके तिथि of incorporation , इसके जनसांख्यिकी according to the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी , इसके रूप of  government , and its principal villages .
Cities are  indicated in  boldface .
शहरों और कस्बों हैं treated  identically under state law .
Cities are just towns whose form of  सरकारी थी बदला by a  special act of the New Hampshire legislature .
However , towns currently are able to change their form  of सरकारी by सरल वोटर स्वीकृति of a नई नगरपालिका चार्टर  , with several of the more populous towns having already done so .
The main slave  रूट in मध्यकालीन  Africa .
This  आलेख discusses प्रणालियों , इतिहास , और प्रभाव of  slavery within Africa .
See Arab slave trade , Atlantic slave trade , Maafa  , और गुलामी in समकालीन अफ़्रीकी  for other discussions .
`` स्लेव हस्तांतरण  in Africa '' .
Europeans  प्रायः किया नहीं डालें  the interior regions .
Slavery in Africa has existed  throughout the महाद्वीप लिये अनेक  centuries , and continues in the current day .
Systems of servitude and slavery were common in many parts of the  महाद्वीप , as वे  were in much of the ancient world .
In most African societies where  गुलामी थी प्रचलित , the enslaved लोगों यहूद largely treated as indentured  servants and not treated as chattel slaves .
When the Arab slave trade and Atlantic slave trade began , many of the  लोकल स्लेव प्रणालियों बदला और began supplying captives लिये स्लेव  markets outside of Africa .
Slavery in historical Africa  थी practiced  in many different forms and some of these do not clearly fit the definitions of slavery elsewhere in the world .
Debt  गुलामी , enslavement of युद्ध captives  , military slavery , and criminal slavery were all practiced in various parts of Africa .
Although there had been some trans-Saharan trade from the interior of Sub-Saharan Africa to other regions , slavery was a small part of the economic life of many societies in Africa until  the परिचय of transcontinental स्लेव ट्रेड ( अरब  and Atlantic ) .
Slave  practices यहूद again रूपांतरित साथ यूरोपीय  colonization of Africa and the formal abolition of slavery in the early 1900s .
Brett Lorenzo Favre ( born October 10 , 1969 ) is a former American football  क्वार्टरबैक जो खर्च the बहुमत of उसके करियर  with the Green Bay Packers of the National Football League ( NFL ) .
He was a 20-year veteran of the NFL , having played quarterback for the  अटलांटा falcons ( 1991 ) , ग्रीन खाड़ी पैकर्स ( 1992 – 2007 ) , नई  York Jets ( 2008 ) and Minnesota Vikings ( 2009 – 2010 ) .
favre is the तभी क्वार्टरबैक in एनएफएल  history to throw for over 70,000 yards , over 500 touchdowns , over 300 interceptions , over 6,000 completions , and over 10,000 pass attempts .
Favre started at the quarterback position for the University of Southern Mississippi for four years before being selected  in the दूसरी गोलाकार of the 1991 एनएफएल ड्राफ्ट by अटलांटा ( 33rd overall )  .
He was traded to Green Bay on  फ़रवरी 10 , 1992 , लिये the 19th चुनें in the 1992  NFL Draft .
favre became the पैकर्स ' starting  quarterback in the fourth game of the 1992 season , stepping in for injured quarterback Don Majkowski , and started every game through the 2007 season .
He was traded to the New York Jets and started at quarterback for the 2008 season before signing with  the वाइकिंग्स on अगस्त 18 , 2009 as उनके starting  quarterback .
He made an NFL record 297  लगातार starts ( 321 सहित playoffs  ) .
He is the  तभी खिलाड़ी to जीत the ap सबसे मूल्यवान  Player three consecutive times ( 1995–97 ) .
He has led teams to eight division championships ( 1995 , 1996 , 1997 , 2002 , 2003 , 2004 , 2007 , 2009 ) , five NFC Championship Games ( 1995 , 1996 , 1997 , 2007 , 2009 ) , and two Super Bowl  दिखावे ( सुपर कटोरी xxxi , सुपर कटोरी xxxii ) , जीतना एक (  Super Bowl XXXI ) .
He holds many NFL records , including most career touchdown passes , most career passing yards , most career pass completions , most career pass attempts , most  करियर interceptions thrown , सबसे लगातार starts by a खिलाड़ी , सबसे लगातार starts by a क्वार्टरबैक , सबसे करियर victories  as a starting quarterback , most sacked , and most fumbles .
He is  भी referred to by उसके  nickname `` The Gunslinger '' .
Salesforce.com Inc. is a  वैश्विक एंटरप्राइज़ तन्त्र कम्पनी  headquartered in San Francisco , California .
Though best known for its customer  संबंध प्रबन्धन ( crm ) उत्पाद , salesforce  has also expanded into the `` social enterprise arena '' through acquisitions .
It is currently ranked the most innovative company in America by Forbes  पत्रिका , as खूब as क्रमांक 27 in सौभाग्य पत्रिका 's 100  Best Companies to Work For in 2012 .
as of अप्रैल 2013 , the कम्पनी is क्रमित छठे  in providing services in marketing and customer service automation .
It is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and is a constituent of  the s & p 500 अनुक्रमणिका  .
Seahorse is the title given to 54  प्रजाति of समुद्री मछली in the genus हिप्पोकैम्पस  .
`` Hippocampus  '' आता इससे the प्राचीन यूनानी hippos अर्थ  `` horse '' and kampos meaning `` sea monster '' .
Earth is the  तीसरा ग्रह इससे the सूर्य ,  and the densest and fifth-largest of the eight planets in the Solar System .
It is also the  largest of the सौर प्रणाली 's चार स्थलीय  planets .
It is sometimes referred to as the world  or the ब्लू ग्रह .
Earth formed  लगभग 4.54 अरब सालो पहले , और  life appeared on its surface within its first billion years .
Earth 's biosphere then significantly altered the atmospheric and other basic physical conditions , which enabled the proliferation of  जीवों as खूब as the गठन of the ओज़ोन परत , जिससे साथ साथ धरती 's चुम्बकीय फ़ील्ड अवरोधित नुकसानदेह सौर विकिरण , और  permitted formerly ocean-confined life to move safely to land .
The physical properties of the Earth , as well as its  geological इतिहास और कक्षा , have अनुमत  life to persist .
estimates on कैसा much longer the ग्रह होगा  be able to continue to support life range from , to as long as .
Earth 's lithosphere is divided into several rigid segments , or tectonic plates , that migrate across the surface over  अवधि of अनेक लाखो of सालो  .
About 71 %  of the सतह is covered by नमक जल महासागर , साथ the शेष consisting of महाद्वीपों और  islands which together have many lakes and other sources of water that contribute to the hydrosphere .
Earth 's poles are  ज़्यादातर covered साथ बर्फ कि is the ठोस  ice of the Antarctic ice sheet and the sea ice that is the polar ice packs .
The planet 's interior remains active , with a  ठोस आयरन भीतरी कोर , a द्रव बाहरी कोर कि generates the चुम्बकीय फ़ील्ड , और a मोटा परत of अपेक्षाकृत  solid mantle .
Earth gravitationally interacts with other objects  in स्पेस , विशेषकर the सूर्य और the चंद्रमा  .
During one orbit around the Sun , the Earth rotates  परिचय इसके अपना अक्ष 366.26 टाइम्स , बनाना 365.26 सौर दिनों  , or one sidereal year .
The Earth 's axis of rotation is  tilted 23.4° दूर इससे the लम्बवत of इसके कक्षीय प्लेन  , producing seasonal variations on the planet 's surface with a period of one tropical year ( 365.24 solar days ) .
The Moon is Earth 's only natural  उपग्रह  .
It began orbiting the Earth  परिचय .
The Moon 's  गुरुत्वाकर्षक बातचीत साथ धरती stimulates  ocean tides , stabilizes the axial tilt , and gradually slows the planet 's rotation .
The planet is home  to लाखो of प्रजाति of जीवन ,  including humans .
Both the mineral resources of the planet and the  उत्पाद of the जीवमंडल योगदान संसाधन कि हैं प्रयुक्त to support a वैश्विक इंसान  population .
These inhabitants are grouped into about 200 independent  sovereign राज्य , जिससे interact through कूटनीति  , travel , trade , and military action .
Human cultures have developed many views of the planet , including its personification as a planetary deity  , इसके आकार as चपटा , इसके स्थिति as the बीच of the ब्रह्मांड  , and in the modern Gaia Principle , as a single , self-regulating organism in its own right .
The Magician from the Waite-Smith tarot , who is depicted  using the वही टूल्स कि आधुनिक  Wiccans use .
In  the neopagan धर्म  of Wicca , a range of magical tools are used in ritual practice .
Each of these tools has  अलग उपयोग और एसोसिएशन  , and are used primarily to direct magical energies .
They are used at an altar  , अंदर a जादू  circle .
In traditional Gardnerian Wicca , the tools are often divided into personal tools , which are for use by , and owned by , an individual Wiccan ,  और आउटटेक टूल्स , प्रयुक्त  collectively by the coven .
This practice may derive partly from Masonic traditions ( such as the use of the Square and  compasses ) , इससे जिससे wicca  draws some material , and partly from the rituals of the Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn .
The latter made much use of  सामग्री इससे मध्यकालीन grimoires  such as the Key of Solomon , which has many illustrations of magical tools and instructions for their preparation .
Typical  eukaryotic कोशिका .
सेल्यूलर श्वसन is the नियत of the metabolic प्रतिक्रियाएँ और प्रक्रियाओं कि लो प्लेस in the कोशिकाएं  of organisms to convert biochemical energy from nutrients into adenosine triphosphate ( ATP ) , and then release waste products .
The reactions involved in  श्वसन हैं catabolic प्रतिक्रियाएँ , जिससे ब्रेक विशाल अणुओं into छोटी ones , releasing उर्जा in the  process as weak so-called `` high-energy '' bonds are replaced by stronger bonds in the products .
Respiration is one of the key ways a cell gains  उपयोगी उर्जा to ईंधन सेल्यूलर कार्यकलाप  .
Cellular  श्वसन is माना  an exothermic redox reaction .
The overall reaction is broken into many smaller ones when it occurs in the  देह , सबसे of जिससे हैं रेडॉक्स प्रतिक्रियाएँ themselves  .
Although technically , cellular respiration is a combustion reaction , it clearly does not  resemble एक जब it occurs in  a living cell .
This difference is  क्युकी it occurs in अनेक  separate steps .
While the overall reaction is a combustion reaction , no  सिंगल प्रतिक्रिया कि comprises it is a दहन  reaction .
Nutrients that  हैं commonly प्रयुक्त by एनिमल और संयंत्र कोशिकाएं in श्वसन  include sugar , amino acids and fatty acids , and a common oxidizing agent ( electron acceptor ) is molecular oxygen ( O2 ) .
the उर्जा भंडारित in एटीपी ( इसके तीसरा फास्फेट समूह is weakly बंधुआ to the बाकी of the अणु और is cheaply टूटा allowing stronger bonds to रूप  , thereby transferring energy for use by the cell ) can then be used to drive processes requiring energy , including biosynthesis , locomotion or transportation of molecules across cell membranes .
A  stored-pressure आग extinguisher बना  by Amerex
A British fire extinguisher with ID sign  , कॉल पाइंट और आग कार्रवाई  sign
A fire extinguisher , flame extinguisher , or simply an  extinguisher , is an क्रियाशील आग सुरक्षा यंत्र प्रयुक्त to बुझा  or control small fires , often in emergency situations .
It is not intended for use on an out-of-control fire  , ऐसे as एक जिससे रै पहुँचे the छत , endangers  the user ( i.e. , no escape route , smoke , explosion hazard , etc . ) , or otherwise requires the expertise of a fire department .
Typically , a fire extinguisher consists  of a hand-held बेलनाकार दबाव पोत  containing an agent which can be discharged to extinguish a fire .
In the United States , fire extinguishers , in all  इमारतें अन्य than घरों , हैं generally जरूरी to be सर्विस और inspected by a आग  Protection service company at least annually .
Some  jurisdictions आवश्यकता अधिक बारंबार  service for fire extinguishers .
The servicer places a tag on the extinguisher to indicate the  प्रकार of सेवा performed ( सालाना निरीक्षण , रिचार्ज  , new fire extinguisher ) and when .
There are two main types  of आग extinguishers : भंडारित दबाव  and cartridge-operated .
In  भंडारित दबाव इकाई , the expellant  is stored in the same chamber as the firefighting agent itself .
Depending on the agent  प्रयुक्त  , different propellants are used .
With dry chemical extinguishers , nitrogen is typically used ;  जल और झाग extinguishers  typically use air .
Stored  दबाव आग extinguishers  are the most common type .
Cartridge-operated extinguishers contain the  expellant गैस in a पृथक कार्ट्रिज कि is punctured prior  to discharge , exposing the propellant to the extinguishing agent .
This type is not as common ,  प्रयुक्त primarily in क्षेत्रों ऐसे as औद्योगिक सुविधाएं  , where they receive higher-than-average use .
They have the advantage of simple and prompt recharge , allowing an operator to discharge  the extinguisher , रिचार्ज it , और वापसी to  the fire in a reasonable amount of time .
Unlike stored pressure types , these  extinguishers उपयोग संपीडित कार्बन डाइऑक्साइड बजाय of नाइट्रोजन , हालांकि नाइट्रोजन  cartridges are used on low temperature ( -60 rated ) models .
Cartridge operated extinguishers are available in dry chemical and dry powder types in the U.S. and in water , wetting agent , foam , dry chemical (  वर्ग एबीसी और b.c . ) , और शुष्क चूर्ण  ( class D ) types in the rest of the world .
Fire extinguishers are further divided into  हैंडहेल्ड और cart-mounted , भी  called wheeled extinguishers .
Handheld extinguishers weigh from 0.5 to 14 kilograms ( 1 to 30  पाउंड ) , और हैं hence , easily पोर्टेबल  by hand .
Cart-mounted units typically weigh 23+  गामा ( 50+ पाउंड  ) .
These wheeled models are most commonly found  at निर्माण साइट , विमानक्षेत्र runways  , heliports , as well as docks and marinas .
Native Americans in the  संयुक्त राज्य हैं the स्वदेशी peoples in उत्तर अमेरिका भीतर the सीमाएँ of the present-day महाद्वीपीय  United States , Alaska , and the island state of Hawaii .
They are composed of numerous ,  पृथक देशी अमरीकी जनजातियों और जातीय समूह , अनेक of  which survive as intact political communities .
The terms  प्रयुक्त to refer to देशी  Americans have been controversial .
According to a 1995 U.S. Census Census_Bureau Bureau Census_Bureau set of home interviews , most of the respondents with an expressed preference refer to themselves as American Indians ( or simply Indians ) ,  और इस पद रै महरूम अपनाया by प्रमुख अखबारों और कुछ अकादमिक समूह ; however , इस पद करता नहीं typically शामिल देशी hawaiians or निश्चित  Alaskan Natives , such as Aleut , Yup'ik , or Inuit peoples .
Since the end of the 15th  सदी , the माइग्रेशन of europeans to the americas ,  and their importation of Africans as slaves , has led to centuries of conflict and adjustment between Old and New World societies .
Europeans created most of the early written historical record  परिचय देशी अमेरिकी बाद the colonists  ' immigration to the Americas .
Many Native Americans lived as hunter-gatherer societies  और बताई उनके histories  by oral traditions .
In many groups , women carried  आउट sophisticated cultivation of numerous किस्में of स्टेपल  crops : maize , beans and squash .
The indigenous cultures were quite different from  those of the कृषिक , proto-industrial  , mostly Christian immigrants from western Eurasia .
Many Native cultures were  matrilineal ; the लोगों occupied lands  for use of the entire community , for hunting or agriculture .
Europeans at that time had  patriarchal संस्कृतियों और था विकसित अवधारणाओं of व्यक्तिगत  property rights with respect to land that were extremely different .
The differences in cultures between the established Native Americans and immigrant Europeans , as well as shifting  alliances among अलग राष्ट्र of प्रत्येक संस्कृति through the सदियां ,  caused extensive political tension , ethnic violence and social disruption .
The Native  अमेरिकी suffered ऊँची fatalities इससे  the contact with infectious Eurasian diseases , to which they had no acquired immunity .
Epidemics after European contact  caused the महानतम  loss of life for indigenous populations .
Estimates of the pre-Columbian population of what today  constitutes the u.S. vary significantly , ranging  from 1 million to 18 million .
After the colonies revolted against Great Britain and established the United States of America , President George  वॉशिंगटन और हेनरी नॉक्स conceived of the विचार of `` civilizing ''  Native Americans in preparation for assimilation as U.S. citizens .
Assimilation ( whether voluntary as with the Choctaw , or forced ) became  a सतत नीति through अमरीकी administrations  .
During the 19th century ,  the विचारधारा of manifest नियति  became integral to the American nationalist movement .
Expansion of European-American populations to the west after the American  क्रान्ति resulted in increasing दबाव on देशी अमरीकी lands ,  warfare between the groups , and rising tensions .
In 1830 , the U.S. Congress passed the Indian Removal Act , authorizing the government to relocate Native Americans from their  homelands भीतर स्थापित राज्य  to lands west of the Mississippi River , accommodating European-American expansion .
The first European Americans to  एनकाउंटर the पश्चिमी आंतरिक जनजातियों यहूद generally  fur traders and trappers .
There were also  जेसुइट प्रचारकों क्रियाशील in the उत्तरी  Tier .
As United States expansion  पहुँचे into the अमरीकी वेस्ट , settler और  miner migrants came into increasing conflict with the Great Basin , Great Plains , and other Western tribes .
These were complex nomadic cultures based on  घोड़ा संस्कृति और मौसमी  bison hunting .
They carried out strong resistance to United States incursions in the decades after the American Civil War , in a  श्रेणी of भारतीय युद्धों , जिससे यहूद बारंबार up जबतक the 1890s ,  but continued into the 20th century .
The  transcontinental रेलरोड brought अधिक  non-Natives into tribal land in the west .
over समय , the u.S. मजबूर a श्रेणी of treaties और जमीन cessions by  the tribes , and established reservations for them in many western states .
U.S. agents encouraged Native Americans to adopt European-style farming and similar pursuits , but  european-american agricultural प्रौद्योगिकी of the समय थी अपर्याप्त लिये प्रायः शुष्क रिज़र्वेशन  lands .
In 1924 , Native  अमेरिकी जो यहूद नहीं already u.S.  citizens were granted citizenship by Congress .
Contemporary Native Americans have a unique relationship with the United States because they may be members of nations , tribes , or  bands साथ प्रभुता और  treaty rights .
Central America ( ) is the central  भौगोलिक प्रदेश of the americas  .
It is the southernmost , isthmian portion of the North  अमरीकी महाद्वीप , जिससे connects साथ दक्षिण अमेरिका  on the southeast .
When  माना भाग of the एकीकृत महाद्वीपीय  model , it is considered a subcontinent .
Central America consists of seven countries : Belize ,  कोस्टा रिका , el साल्वाडोर , ग्वाटेमाला  , Honduras , Nicaragua , and Panama .
Central America is part of the  mesoamerican  biodiversity hotspot , which extends from northern Guatemala through central Panama .
It is bordered by Mexico to the north , the Caribbean Sea to the east , the  उत्तर प्रशांत समंदर to the वेस्ट , और कोलंबिया to the south-east .
सेंट्रल अमेरिका is an क्षेत्रफल of  , or almost 0.1 % of the Earth 's surface .
As  of 2009 , इसके जनसांख्यिकी  was estimated at 41,739,000 .
It  रै a घनत्व of 77 लोगों  per square kilometer .
Scrubs is an American  चिकित्सा comedy-drama टेलीविज़न श्रेणी निर्मित by विधेयक लॉरेंस  that aired from October 2 , 2001 to March 17 , 2010 on NBC and later ABC .
The series follows  the जीवनदान of कर्मचारी at the  fictional Sacred Heart teaching hospital .
The title is a play on surgical scrubs and a term for  a low-ranking व्यक्ति क्युकी at the शुरूआत of the श्रेणी , सबसे  of the main characters were medical interns .
The series features fast-paced screenplay , slapstick , and surreal  vignettes प्रस्तुत ज़्यादातर as the daydreams  of the central character , Dr. John `` J.D . ''
Dorian , who is  निभाई by zach  Braff .
Actors starring alongside Braff  in the पहला आठ सीज़न शामिल सारा chalke  , Donald Faison , Neil Flynn , Ken Jenkins , John C. McGinley and Judy Reyes .
The series has also featured multiple  अतिथि दिखावे by फिल्मी अभिनेताओं , ऐसे as ब्रेंडन फ्रेज़र , हीथर ग्राहम  , and Colin Farrell .
In the ninth season , many new cast  सदस्यों यहूद introduced और the दिखाएँ सेटिंग  moved from a hospital to a medical school .
Out of the original cast , only Braff , Faison and McGinley became  नियमित डाल सदस्यों , जबकि the अन्य साथ the एक्सेप्शन of रेयेस , बना अतिथि दिखावे  .
Braff  appeared in छह एपीसोड  of the ninth season before departing .
Kerry Bishé , Eliza Coupe , Dave Franco and Michael Mosley became series  regulars साथ bishé बनने the दिखाएँ 's नई narrator  .
Scrubs premiered on October 2  , 2001 on एनबीसी .
The  श्रेणी प्राप्त  a Peabody Award in 2006 .
During the  सातवाँ ऋतु , एनबीसी घोषित कि it  would not renew the show .
Shortly after the  सातवाँ ऋतु finale , एबीसी घोषित it था उठाई up the आठवीं  season of the series , which began January 6 , 2009 .
The ninth season premiered  on दिसम्बर  1 , 2009 .
On May 14 , 2010 , ABC announced it  था officially रद्द  Scrubs .
An 1817 Boulton & Watt beam blowing  इंजन , प्रयुक्त in netherton at the  ironworks of M W Grazebrook .
Re-erected on the A38 ( M )  in बर्मिंघम , uk
A steam engine is a heat engine  कि performs mechanical कार्य  using steam as its working fluid .
Using boiling water to produce mechanical motion goes back  परिचय 2,000 सालो , लकिन जल्दी डिवाइस  were not practical .
Since the  लेट 1700s भाप इंजन  have become a major source of mechanical power .
The first  अनुप्रयोग यहूद निकालना  water from mines .
In 1781 James Watt patented a  भाप इंजन कि उत्पादित निरन्तर  rotative motion .
These 10 hp engines  सक्रिय a चौड़ी दायरा of निर्माण  machinery to be powered .
The engines could be  sited anywhere कि जल और  coal or wood fuel could be obtained .
By 1883 , engines that could provide 10,000  hp था become feasible .
Steam engines could also be applied to  वाहनों ऐसे as कर्षण इंजन और the रेल  locomotives which are commonly just called steam engines outside America .
the stationary भाप इंजन थी a कुंजी घटक of the  Industrial Revolution , allowing factories to locate where water power was unavailable .
Today steam turbines generate about 90 % of the  इलेक्ट्रिक शक्ति in the संयुक्त राज्य  using a variety of heat sources .
Steam engines are external combustion engines , where the working fluid  is पृथक इससे the दहन उत्पाद  .
non-combustion ऊष्मा स्त्रोत ऐसे as सौर शक्ति , नाभिकीय  power or geothermal energy may be used .
The ideal  ऊष्मागतिक साईकिल प्रयुक्त  to analyze this process is called the Rankine cycle .
In the cycle  , जल is heated into भाप in a बॉयलर जबतक  it reaches a high pressure .
जब विस्तारित through पिस्टन्स or turbines  , mechanical work is done .
The reduced-pressure steam is then condensed and pumped  वापस into the  boiler .
In general  उपयोग , the पद भाप इंजन can refer to either the एकीकृत भाप पौधे ( सहित बायलरों इत्यादि . ) ऐसे as रेल भाप इंजनों और पोर्टेबल  engines , or may refer to the piston or turbine machinery alone , as in the beam engine and stationary steam engine .
Specialized devices such as steam hammers and  भाप pile ड्राइवर हैं निर्भर on भाप  supplied from a separate boiler .
A  मिल इंजन इससे stott  Park Bobbin Mill , Cumbria , England
A steam locomotive in Germany .This class of engine was built in 1942 –  1950 और संचालित commercially जबतक 1988  .
`` Move Bitch '' ( edited version titled `` Move B***h '' or simply `` Move '' ) is  the तीसरा आधिकारिक सिंगल इससे rapper ludacris  ' album Word of Mouf .
The  सिंगल सुविधाएँ  Mystikal and I-20 .
The single reached # 10  on the बिलबोर्ड hot 100 बनाना it  Ludacris 's first top ten hit on the chart , it also reached # 3 on Hot Rap Tracks and # 3 on Hot R & B/Hip-Hop Singles & Tracks .
Puerto Rican  reggaeton duo maicol & मैनुएल sampled the सोंग on  `` Hoy Me Levanté '' on their 2002 release Yakaleo .
The song is also  प्रदर्शित in एपीसोड  2 , Series One of British teen comedy/drama Skins .
The song was also used by World Wrestling Entertainment superstar Montel  vontavious पोर्टर दौरान उसके  short stint in Ring of Honor .
It was also used for April  शिकारी in विभिन्न स्वतंत्र  circuits .
It was featured in the  फिल्म atl अभिनीत t.i . , और ' hancock , ' हालांकि in the  latter , the clean version was used .
A snippet of the song is played during traffic reports on many radio stations ,  प्रायः carrying an urban/hip-hop स्वरूप  .
Retired NBA star and now ESPN analyst Jalen Rose is  प्रदर्शित in the म्यूज़िक वीडियो  .
The  सोंग रै महरूम covered by चट्टान बैंड प्रारंभ ट्रबल  , on their album Every Solution Has Its Problem .
It was featured on  अंग्रेजों sitcom the inbetweeners जब the वर्ण  Jay and Neil took Will on a 'pussy patrol ' in Jay 's red Nissan Micra .
It was sampled by Girl Talk on the  पहला track of उसके एल्बम  All Day , `` Oh No '' .
Elizabeth II ( Elizabeth Alexandra Mary ; born 21 April 1926 ) is the constitutional monarch of 16 sovereign states , known as the  राष्ट्रमंडल realms , और उनके territories और dependencies , और सिर  of the 54-member Commonwealth of Nations .
She is Supreme Governor of the Church of England and , in some  of  her realms , carries the title of Defender of the Faith as part of her full title .
On her accession on 6 February 1952 , Elizabeth became  सिर of the राष्ट्रमंडल  and queen regnant of seven independent Commonwealth countries : the United Kingdom , Canada , Australia , New Zealand , South Africa , Pakistan and Ceylon .
From 1956 to 1992 , the number of her  realms varied as territories gained स्वतंत्रता  and some realms became republics .
At present , in addition to the first four aforementioned countries , Elizabeth is Queen of Jamaica , Barbados , the Bahamas , Grenada , Papua New Guinea , the Solomon Islands , Tuvalu  , संत लूसिया , संत विंसेंट और the grenadines , बेलीज़ , अण्टीगुआ और बारबूडा  and Saint Kitts and Nevis .
Her reign of  सालो is फिलहाल the दूसरी longest लिये a अंग्रेजों  monarch ; only Queen Victoria has reigned longer at over 63 years .
Elizabeth was born in London  और शिक्षित privately  at home .
Her father acceded to the throne as George VI in 1936 on the abdication of his  bhai एडवर्ड viii , इससे जिससे समय वो थी the  heir presumptive .
She began to undertake public duties during the Second  संसार युद्ध , in जिससे वो परोसा in  the Auxiliary Territorial Service .
In 1947 , she married Prince Philip , Duke of Edinburgh , with whom she has four children : Charles ,  ऐनी , एंड्रयू , और एडवर्ड  .
Her coronation  सेवा took प्लेस  in 1953 and was the first to be televised .
The Queen 's many historic  विज़िट और बैठक शामिल a राज्य विज़िट to the गणतंत्र  of Ireland and reciprocal visits to and from the Pope .
The Queen has seen major  संवैधानिक परिवर्तन in उसके realms , ऐसे as devolution in the  United Kingdom and the patriation of the Canadian constitution .
Times of personal significance have included the  births और विवाह of उसके children , the births of उसके grandchildren , the प्रतिष्ठापन of the प्रिंस of वेल्स ,  and the celebration of milestones such as her Silver , Golden , and Diamond Jubilees in 1977 , 2002 , and 2012 , respectively .
Major events in the Queen 's reign have included the  परेशानियों in उत्तरी आयरलैंड , the falklands युद्ध , युद्धों  with Iraq and the War in Afghanistan .
There have been times of personal sorrow for her which include  the मौत of उसके पिता at 56 , the हत्या of प्रिंस फिलिप 's ताऊ , रब माउंटबेटन , the विश्लेषण of उसके children 's विवाह in 1992 ( a साल deemed उसके annus horribilis  ) , the death in 1997 of her former daughter-in-law , Diana , Princess of Wales , and the deaths of her mother and sister in 2002 .
The Queen has  occasionally faced कठोर दबायें आलोचना of the royal परिवार और रिपब्लिकन sentiments , लकिन support लिये  the monarchy and her personal popularity remain high .
Christianity is the  largest धर्म सूचीबद्ध by australians  in the national census .
In the  2011 जनसांख्यिकी  , 61.1 % of Australians were listed as Christian .
ऑस्ट्रेलिया रै no आधिकारिक राज्य धर्म  and the Australian Constitution protects freedom of religion .
The presence of Christianity  in ऑस्ट्रेलिया began साथ the आगमन of the पहला  Fleet of British convicts in 1788 .
The religion grew to account for 96.1 % of the national  जनसांख्यिकी at the समय of the संघ of ऑस्ट्रेलिया  in 1901 .
The Anglican Church of Australia ( formerly known as the Church of England in Australia ) remained the largest denomination until 1986 , when it was surpassed by the  रोमन कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर in ऑस्ट्रेलिया  .
Post-war multiculturalism and a decline  in धार्मिक observance among कुछ भाग of the जनसांख्यिकी  have diversified the demographics of religion in Australia .
Of the roughly 61 % identifying as Christian in 2011 , the  largest denominations यहूद either रोमन कैथोलिक ( 25 % ) or anglican ( 17 % ) , साथ  the third largest denomination being the 5 % affiliated with the Uniting Church in Australia .
Post-war immigration has  grown the संख्याएँ belonging to चर्च जैसे  the Greek Orthodox Archdiocese of Australia and there are large and growing Pentecostal groups , such as Sydney 's Hillsong Church .
The festivals of  ईस्टर और क्रिसमस हैं पब्लिक  holidays in Australia .
Around a quarter of students attend  गिरिजाघर स्कूलों और ईसाई संगठनों हैं अग्रणी non-government प्रदाताओं of स्वास्थ्य और welfare  services through organisations like Catholic Health Australia , Anglicare , UnitingCare Australia , the Salvation Army and St Vincent de Paul Society .
Historically significant Australian Christians have  शामिल रेव dr जॉन dunmore लैंग , संत मरियम mackillop  , Catherine Helen Spence , Pastor David Unaipon , the Reverend John Flynn and Pastor Sir Doug Nicholls .
High profile contemporary Australian  ईसाइयों शामिल : टिम कॉस्टेलो बैपटिस्ट मंत्री और वर्तमान सीईओ of संसार दृष्टि ऑस्ट्रेलिया ,  Frank Brennan , Jesuit human rights lawyer , Cardinal George Pell , Catholic Archbishop of Sydney , Phillip Aspinall the current Anglican Primate and Archbishop of Brisbane , Kevin Rudd , former Labor Prime Minister , and Tony Abbott , leader for the Federal Opposition Liberal Party .
Charter creating Collegiate School , which  became yale कॉलेज , अक्तूबर 9 ,  1701
Yale University is a private Ivy League research university located in New Haven  , कनेक्टिकट  .
Founded in 1701 in the Colony of  कनेक्टिकट , the विश्वविद्यालयों is the third-oldest संस्था  of higher education in the United States .
Originally chartered as  the `` कॉलेजिएट स्कूल '' , the संस्था traces इसके जड़ें to  17th-century clergymen who sought to establish a college to train clergy and political leaders for the colony .
In 1718 , the College was  renamed `` yale कॉलेज '' to सम्मान a तोहफा इससे elihu yale ,  a governor of the British East India Company .
In 1861 , the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences became the first U.S. institution to award the PhD . Yale became a  founding सदस्य of the संघ of अमरीकी विश्वविद्यालयों in 1900 .
Yale College was transformed , beginning in the 1930s  , through the स्थापना of आवासीय कॉलेजों : 12 अभी  exist and two more are planned .
yale employs over 1,100 संकाय to सिखा और सलाह परिचय  5,300 undergraduate and 6,100 graduate and professional students .
लगभग सब tenured professors सिखा undergraduate  courses , more than 2,000 of which are offered annually .
The University 's assets include an endowment valued at $ 19.4 billion , the  second-largest of कोई अकादमिक संस्था in  the world .
Yale 's  प्रणाली of अधिक than दो दर्जन पुस्तकालयों  holds 12.5 million volumes .
49 Nobel Laureates have been affiliated with the  विश्वविद्यालयों as विद्यार्थी , संकाय  , and staff .
Yale has produced many notable alumni , including  पाँच u.S. राष्ट्रपतियों , 19 u.S. परम् अदालत justices , और अनेक  foreign heads of state .
At the graduate level , Yale Law  स्कूल , yale स्कूल of आर्ट , और yale स्कूल  of Drama are consistently ranked the top programs in their field .
Yale Law  स्कूल is the सबसे चयनात्मक विधि  school in the United States .
Yale students compete intercollegiately as the Yale  bulldogs in the ncaa प्रभाग i  Ivy League .
The oldest intercollegiate athletic event in  the संयुक्त राज्य is the yale-harvard  regatta .
Artemisia  tridentata ( `` बिग sagebrush '' or `` sagebrush '' ) is an खुशबूदार झाड़ी इससे the परिवार asteraceae , जिससे  grows in arid and semi-arid conditions , throughout a range of cold desert , steppe , and mountain habitats in the Intermountain West of North America .
The vernacular name ``  sagebrush '' is भी प्रयुक्त लिये अनेक सम्बन्धित सदस्यों  of the genus Artemisia , such as California Sagebrush ( Artemisia californica ) .
Big  sagebrush और अन्य artemisia प्रजाति हैं the प्रबल पौधे आरपार  large portions of the Great Basin , covering some 422,000 square miles in 11 western U.S. & Canadian states .
it is the राज्य  flower of Nevada .
Sagebrush provides food and habitat for a variety of species , such as sage grouse ,  pronghorn antelope , धूसर vireo , सानो खरगोश  , and mule deer .
Big sagebrush was used as an herbal medicine  by देशी अमेरिकी throughout the intermountain वेस्ट of उत्तर america—especially  for preventing infection in wounds , stopping internal bleeding , and treating headaches and colds .
Chemically , the active medicinal  constituents शामिल camphor , terpenoids ,  and tannins .
Several major threats exist to sage brush ecosystems , including human  settlements , परिवर्तन to agricultural जमीन , पशुधन  grazing , invasive plant species , wildfires , and climate change .
Yahoo ! Mail is a free email service offered  by the अमरीकी ढूंढें इंजन  company Yahoo !
It was launched in 1997 , and , according to comScore , Yahoo !  मेल is the third-largest web-based  email service with 281 million users as of December 2012 .
Currently , Yahoo ! offers  तीन संस्करण of याहू  ! Mail .
The  परंपरागत `` याहू ! मेल  Classic '' continues the availability of the original interface introduced in 1997 .
A version introduced in 2005 included a new Ajax interface ,  drag-and-drop सुविधाएँ , improved ढूंढें कार्यक्षमता , कुंजीपटल शॉर्टकट , पता auto-complete  , tabs , and other updated features .
In October 2010 , Yahoo ! released a beta version of Yahoo ! Mail ,  जिससे शामिल सुधार to the डिज़ाइन , प्रदर्शन , ढूंढें कार्यक्षमता  , and Facebook integration .
In  may 2011 , बीटा परीक्षण लिये the नई संस्करण रोका  , and it became the default interface for Yahoo ! Mail .
In early 2008 , Yahoo  ! began offering असीमित मेल  storage to its users in response to heated competition in the free web-mail market segment .
On June 27 , 2009 , Yahoo !  मेसेंजर थी एकीकृत साथ याहू ! मेल  .
Tacoma ( , ) is a  mid-sized शहरी बंदरगाहों नगर और the काउंटी  seat of Pierce County , Washington , United States .
The city is on Washington 's Puget Sound , southwest  of सिएटल , पूर्वोत्तर of the राज्य पूंजी , ओलंपिया , और उत्तरपश्चिम  of Mount Rainier National Park .
The population was 198,397  , according to the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी  .
Tacoma is the second-largest city in the  puget ध्वनि क्षेत्रफल और  the third largest in the state .
Tacoma also serves as the center of business activity for the South Sound  प्रदेश , जिससे रै a जनसांख्यिकी of around  1 million people .
Tacoma  अपनाया इसके नाम बाद the आसपास  Mount Rainier , originally called Mount Tahoma .
It is known as the `` City of Destiny '' because the area was chosen to be the western terminus  of the उत्तरी प्रशांत  Railroad in the late 19th century .
The decision  of the रेलरोड थी बहकावे  by Tacoma 's neighboring deep-water harbor , Commencement Bay .
By connecting the bay with the railroad Tacoma 's motto became  `` जब rails मिलें sails  . ''
Today Commencement Bay serves  the बंदरगाहों of टकोमा , a बीच of अंतरराष्ट्रीय व्यापार on the प्रशांत  Coast and Washington state 's largest port .
Like most  सेंट्रल शहरों , टकोमा suffered a prolonged  decline in the mid-20th century as a result of suburbanization and divestment .
Since the 1990s , developments in the downtown core include the  विश्वविद्यालयों of वॉशिंगटन टकोमा ; टकोमा कड़ी , the पहला आधुनिक इलेक्ट्रिक लाइट रेल सेवा in the राज्य ;  the state 's highest density of art and history museums ; and a restored urban waterfront , the Thea Foss Waterway .
With a long history of blue-collar labor politics — from the railroad  मजदूर of the 19th सदी , to the longshoremen of the 20th सदी , to the मजदूर तैयार मजदूर  of today — Tacoma has long been known for its rough , gritty image .
A song about Tacoma , `` Thrice  सब अमरीकी '' , by अमरीकी singer-songwriter और पूर्व निवासी neko मामला , describes  it as `` a dusty old jewel in the South Puget Sound / where the factories churn / and the timber 's all cut down '' .
Tacoma-Pierce County has been named one  of the सबसे livable  areas in the country .
Tacoma  थी भी recently सूचीबद्ध  as the 19th most walkable city in the country .
In contrast , the city is also  क्रमित as the सबसे stressed-out नगर in the देश  in a 2004 survey .
In 2006 , women 's magazine Self named Tacoma the `` Most Sexually  स्वस्थ नगर '' in the संयुक्त राज्य  .
In 2012  , the एडवोकेट दिया टकोमा the शीर्षक of `` gayest नगर in अमेरिका  '' , in part because of the large diversity of public offices held , and Washington State passing a bill in 2012 allowing LGBT couples to marry .
Tacoma is famous  लिये the 1940 पतन  of the Tacoma Narrows Bridge .
Chula Vista ( ; ) is the second largest city in the San Diego  महानगर क्षेत्रफल , the सातवाँ largest नगर in दक्षिणी कैलिफ़ोर्निया  , the fourteenth largest city in the State of California , and the 77th-largest city in the United States .
The  जनसांख्यिकी थी 243,916 as of  the 2010 census .
Located just from downtown San Diego and from the Mexican border in the South  खाड़ी प्रदेश of the महानगर क्षेत्रफल , the नगर is at the बीच of एक of the richest आर्थिक  and culturally diverse zones in the United States .
Chula Vista  is  so named because of its scenic location between the San Diego Bay and coastal mountain foothills .
Founded in the early 19th  सदी , तेज़ जनसांख्यिकी विकास रै recently  been observed in the city .
As the second largest city in  सैन डिएगो काउंटी , chula विस्टा  has quickly become a destination popular to many tourists .
Located in the city is one of America 's few year-round United States Olympic  प्रशिक्षण centers और लोकप्रिय पर्यटक गंतव्यों शामिल क्रिकेट बेतार amphitheater , the  Chula Vista marina , and the Chula Vista Nature Center .
Metes and bounds  is a प्रणाली or विधि of describing जमीन  , real property ( in contrast to personal property ) or real estate .
The system has been  प्रयुक्त in इंग्लैण्ड लिये अनेक सदियां  , and is still used there in the definition of general boundaries .
By custom , it  थी लागू in the असली तेरह colonies कि became the संयुक्त राज्य ,  and in many other land jurisdictions based on English common law .
Typically the system uses physical features of the  लोकल भूगोल , साथ साथ दिशानिर्देश और दूरियाँ , to  define and describe the boundaries of a parcel of land .
The  सीमाएँ हैं वर्णित in a कार्यशील गद्य स्टाइल , working  around the parcel in sequence , from a point of beginning , returning back to the same point ; compare with the oral ritual of beating the bounds .
It may  शामिल सन्दर्भ to अन्य adjoining  parcels ( and their owners ) , and it , in turn , could also be referred to in later surveys .
At the time the description is compiled , it may have been marked on the ground with  स्थाई स्मारक लगाई जहाँ वहीँ यहूद no उपयुक्त प्राकृतिक  monuments .
The term `` metes '' refers to  a boundary पारिभाषित by the मापन of प्रत्येक सीधा चलाएं , निर्दिष्ट by a अलहदा  between the terminal points , and an orientation or direction .
A direction may be a  सरल कम्पास bearing , or a precise  orientation determined by accurate survey methods .
The term `` bounds '' refers to a more general  boundary वर्णन , ऐसे as साथ a निश्चित watercourse , a स्टोन वॉल , an adjoining  public road way , or an existing building .
The system is often used to  define larger टुकड़े of प्रॉपर्टी ( e.g . खेतो ) , और राजनैतिक subdivisions  ( e.g . town boundaries ) where precise definition is not required or would be far too expensive , or previously designated boundaries can be incorporated into the description .
Sir Isaac Newton ( 25 December 164220 March 1727 ) was an English physicist and mathematician who is widely regarded as one of the most  influential वैज्ञानिकों of सब समय और as a कुंजी फिगर  in the scientific revolution .
His book Philosophiæ Naturalis Principia Mathematica ( `` Mathematical Principles  of प्राकृतिक दर्शनशास्त्र '' ) , पहला प्रकाशित in 1687 , रखी the मूलाधार  for most of classical mechanics .
Newton also made seminal contributions to optics and shares  क्रेडिट साथ गॉटफ्राइड लैबनिट्ज़ लिये the आविष्कार of the infinitesimal  calculus .
Newton 's Principia formulated the laws of motion and universal gravitation that  वर्चस्व वैज्ञानिकों ' दृश्य of the शारीरिक ब्रह्मांड लिये  the next three centuries .
It also demonstrated that the motion of objects on the Earth and that of celestial  लाशें could be वर्णित by the वही  principles .
By deriving Kepler 's laws of planetary motion from his mathematical description of gravity , Newton  removed the पिछला संदेह परिचय the वैध of the heliocentric  model of the cosmos .
Newton built the first practical  reflecting दूरदर्शी और विकसित a सिद्धान्त of रंग आधारित  on the observation that a prism decomposes white light into the many colours of the visible spectrum .
he भी प्रतिपादित  an empirical law of cooling and studied the speed of sound .
In addition to his work on the calculus , as a  गणितज्ञ न्यूटन contributed to the पढ़ाई of शक्ति श्रेणी , generalised the द्विपद प्रमेय  to non-integer exponents , and developed Newton 's method for approximating the roots of a function .
Newton was a fellow of Trinity  कॉलेज और the दूसरी  Lucasian Professor of Mathematics at the University of Cambridge .
He was a devout but unorthodox Christian and  , unusually लिये a सदस्य of the कैम्ब्रिज संकाय , he refused to  take holy orders in the Church of England , perhaps because he privately rejected the doctrine of trinitarianism .
in जोड to उसके कार्य on the गणितीय sciences , न्यूटन भी समर्पित much of उसके समय to  the study of alchemy and biblical chronology , but most of his work in those areas remained unpublished until long after his death .
In his  बाद जीवन , न्यूटन became अध्यक्ष  of the Royal Society .
He also served the British  सरकारी as वार्डन  and Master of the Royal Mint .
Prof. Walter Lewin explains Newton 's law  of gravitation in एमआईटी कोर्स 8.01
Satellites and projectiles all  obey न्यूटन 's विधि of  gravitation
Newton 's law of  सार्वभौमिक gravitation राज्य कि प्रत्येक पाइंट द्रव्यमान in the ब्रह्मांड attracts प्रत्येक अन्य पाइंट द्रव्यमान साथ a फ़ोर्स  that is directly proportional to the product of their masses and inversely proportional to the square of the distance between them .
( Separately it was shown that large  spherically सममित masses आकर्षित और हैं आकर्षित as if सब उनके  mass were concentrated at their centers . )
This is a general physical law derived  इससे अनुभवजन्य observations by कया न्यूटन  called induction .
It is a part of classical mechanics and was formulated in Newton 's work  philosophiæ naturalis प्रिन्सिपिया mathematica ( `` the प्रिन्सिपिया ''  ) , first published on 5 July 1687 .
( When  न्यूटन 's किताब थी प्रस्तुत in 1686 to the royal समाज  , Robert Hooke made a claim that Newton had obtained the inverse square law from him – see History section below . )
In modern  भाषा , the विधि राज्य  the following:
Assuming SI units , F is measured in newtons ( N ) , m1 and m2 in  गामा ( kg ) , r in मीटर ( m ) , और the निरंतर g is  approximately equal to .
The value of the  निरंतर g थी पहला accurately संकल्पित इससे the परिणाम of the कैवेंडिश प्रयोग conducted  by the British scientist Henry Cavendish in 1798 , although Cavendish did not himself calculate a numerical value for G .
This experiment was also the first test of  न्यूटन 's सिद्धान्त of gravitation between masses  in the laboratory .
It took place 111 years after the publication of Newton 's Principia and 71 years after Newton 's death , so none of Newton 's  calculations could उपयोग the मान of g ; बजाय he could तभी गणना a फ़ोर्स सापेक्ष to  another force .
Newton 's law of  gravitation resembles कूलम्ब 's विधि of विद्युत शक्तियां ,  which is used to calculate the magnitude of electrical force between two charged bodies .
Both are inverse-square laws , in which force is  inversely आंशिक to the वर्गाकार of the अलहदा  between the bodies .
Coulomb 's Law has the product of two charges in place of the product of  the masses , और the electrostatic निरंतर in प्लेस of the गुरुत्वाकर्षक  constant .
Newton 's law  रै चूंकि महरूम superseded by आइंस्टीन 's  theory of general relativity , but it continues to be used as an excellent approximation of the effects of gravity .
Relativity is  जरूरी तभी जब वहीँ is a need लिये  extreme precision , or when dealing with gravitation for extremely massive and dense objects .
White and red flags , representing Iraqi and American deaths , sit in the grass  चतुष्कोण of the घाटी पुस्तकालयों on the corvallis , ऑरेगॉन , कैम्पस  of Oregon State University .
As part of the traveling Iraq Body Count  प्रदर्शनी इससे 2008 to 2009 ( नहीं सम्बन्धित to इराकी देह गिनती  project ) , the flags aim to `` raise awareness of the human cost of the Iraq War . ''
(  may  2008 )
Casualties of the conflict in Iraq since 2003 ( beginning with the 2003 invasion of Iraq , and continuing with the ensuing occupation of Iraq , as well as the activities of the various armed groups  ऑपरेटिंग in the देश ) have आइये in अनेक फ़ॉर्म , और the सटीकता of the सूचना उपलब्धियाँ on अलग प्रकार of इराकी युद्ध हताहत varies greatly .
The table below  summarizes विभिन्न estimates of the इराकी  casualty figures .
For troops in the U.S.-led multinational coalition , the death toll is carefully tracked and updated daily , and the names and  छायाचित्र of those मारे in कार्रवाई as खूब as  in accidents have been published widely .
A  कुल of 4,486 u.S. सैनिको  were killed in Iraq between 2003 and 2012 .
Regarding the  इराकी , however , सूचना on दोनो  military and civilian casualties is both less precise and less consistent .
Estimates of casualty levels are  उपलब्धियाँ इससे पत्रकारों on the झाँकी , इससे officials of शामिल संगठन  , and from groups that summarize information on incidents reported in the news media .
The word ``  हताहत `` in इसके सबसे सामान्य भाव शामिल  the injured as well as the dead .
Accounts  of the क्रमांक of गठबन्धन wounded vary widely , partly क्युकी  it is not obvious what should be counted : should only those injuries serious enough to put a soldier out of commission be included ?
Do illnesses or injuries caused by  दुर्घटनाओं गिनती , or चाहिए the फ़ोकस be प्रतिबंधित  to wounds caused by hostile engagement ?
Sources using different definitions may arrive at very different numbers , and  sometimes the precise परिभाषा is नहीं clearly  specified .
Asalto al  coche ( डकैती of the कोच  ) , by Francisco de Goya
A highwayman was  a चोर और brigand  who preyed on travellers .
This type of outlaw usually travelled and robbed by horse  , as compared to a footpad  who travelled and robbed on foot .
Mounted robbers were  widely माना to be socially  superior to footpads .
Such robbers operated in Great Britain and Ireland  इससे the elizabethan era  until the early 19th century .
The word highwayman is first known to be used in the  साल 1617 ; अन्य euphemisms शामिल `` शूरवीरों  of the road '' and `` gentlemen of the road . ''
Two terms applied to 19th-century North American highwaymen were  सड़क एजेंटों in कुछ उदाहरण लिये पहाड़ डाकुओं जबकि in  other cases the term is Rlallaala for mountain-based ruffians .
In the same time period in Australia ,  वे यहूद ज्ञात as  bushrangers .
Earvin `` Magic '' Johnson , Jr. ( born August 14 , 1959 ) is a retired American professional basketball player who played point  गार्ड लिये the लॉस एंजिल्स लेकर्स of the नेशनल  Basketball Association ( NBA ) .
After winning championships in high school and college , Johnson was  चयनित पहला overall in the  1979 NBA Draft by the Lakers .
He won a championship and an NBA Finals Most Valuable Player Award in his  रुकी ऋतु , और जीती चार अधिक championships  with the Lakers during the 1980s .
Johnson retired abruptly in 1991  बाद announcing कि he था contracted hiv , लकिन लौटे  to play in the 1992 All-Star Game , winning the All-Star MVP Award .
After protests from his fellow players , he retired again for four  सालो , लकिन लौटे in 1996 , at आयु 36 , to खेल 32 खेल लिये the लेकर्स पहले  retiring for the third and final time .
Johnson 's career achievements include three NBA MVP Awards , nine NBA Finals appearances , twelve All-Star games , and  टेन all-nba पहला  and Second Team nominations .
He led the  लीग in regular-season assists  four times , and is the NBA 's all-time leader in average assists per game , at 11.2 .
Johnson was a member of the `` Dream Team `` , the U.S. basketball  टोली कि जीती the ओलम्पिक सुनहरा पदक in 1992  .
After leaving the NBA in 1992 , Johnson formed the Magic Johnson All-Stars , a  barnstorming टोली कि travelled around the संसार playing प्रदर्शनी  games .
Johnson was honored as one of the 50 Greatest Players in NBA History in  1996 , और enshrined in the बास्केट हॉल of कीर्ति in 2002  .
He was rated the greatest NBA  पाइंट गार्ड of सब समय by ईएसपीएन in  2007 .
His friendship and rivalry  साथ बोस्टन सेल्टिक्स स्टार लैरी बर्ड , जिसको he faced in the 1979 ncaa फाइनल और  three NBA championship series , were well documented .
Since his retirement , Johnson has been an advocate for HIV/ AIDS prevention and safe sex , as  खूब as an उद्योगों , लोकसेवक , प्रसारणकर्ता और प्रेरक स्पीकर  .
Johnson was a part-owner of the Lakers for several years ,  और थी भाग of a समूह कि खरीदा  the Los Angeles Dodgers in 2012 .
Allium cells in different  phases of the कोशिका साईकिल
The  कोशिकाएं of eukaryotes  ( left ) and prokaryotes ( right )
The cell is the basic structural , functional and biological unit of all known  जीना जीवों  .
It is the smallest unit of life that is classified as a living thing (  मगर वायरस , जिससे consists तभी इससे dna/rna covered by प्रोटीन और lipids  ) , and is often called the building block of life .
It consists of a protoplasm enclosed within a membrane , which contains many  biomolecules ऐसे as प्रोटीन और  nucleic acids .
Organisms can be classified as unicellular ( consisting of a single cell ; including most bacteria ) or  बहुकोशिकीय ( सहित पौधे और पशु  ) .
While the number of cells in plants and animals varies  इससे प्रजाति to प्रजाति , इंसानो contain परिचय  100 trillion ( 1014 ) cells .
Most plant and animal cells  हैं between 1 और 100 micrometres और  therefore are visible only under the microscope .
The cell  थी खोजा by  Robert Hooke in 1665 .
The cell theory ,  पहला विकसित in 1839 by matthias jakob schleiden और theodor  Schwann , states that all organisms are composed of one or more cells , that all cells come from preexisting cells , that vital functions of an organism occur within cells , and that all cells contain the hereditary information necessary for regulating cell functions and for transmitting information to the next generation of cells .
Cells emerged on planet Earth at least  4.0–4.3 अरब  years ago .
The word cell comes from the  लैटिन गर्भगृह , अर्थ ``  small room '' .
The descriptive term for the smallest living biological structure was coined by Robert Hooke in a  किताब he प्रकाशित in 1665 जब he compared the कॉर्क कोशिकाएं he देखी through उसके सूक्ष्मदर्शी  to the small rooms monks lived in .
Grecian Formula is a  मेन 's बाल coloring उत्पाद in  the United States .
Canada and Europe previously banned the  उत्पाद क्युकी of इसके  use of lead acetate .
A motor scooter 's front  साथ an अव्यवहारिक क्रमांक और  variety of headlamps , added for decorative purposes
A headlamp is a lamp attached to the front  of a गाडी to लाइट  the road ahead .
Headlamp performance has steadily improved throughout the automobile age  , spurred by the ग्रेट disparity between दिन और nighttime  traffic fatalities : the U.S. National Highway Traffic Safety Administration states that nearly half of all traffic-related fatalities occur in the dark , despite only 25 % of traffic travelling during darkness .
While it is common for the term headlight to be used interchangeably in informal discussion , headlamp is the term for the device  itself , जबकि हेडलाइट properly refers to the बीम of लाइट उत्पादित और वितरित  by the device .
Other vehicles , such as trains and aircraft  , हैं जरूरी to  have headlamps .
Bicycle headlamps are often  प्रयुक्त on साइकिल , और हैं जरूरी  in some jurisdictions .
They can be powered by a battery or a small  विद्युत सृजनकर्ता on the  wheel .
Additionally  ऑटोमोटिव रात्रि दृष्टि प्रणालियों कार्य to संपूरक  headlamps .
Women 's rights  हैं the अधिकारों और entitlements claimed लिये महिलाओं  and girls of many societies worldwide .
In some places these rights are institutionalized or supported by law , local custom , and behaviour ,  whereas in अन्य वे may be उपेक्षित or suppressed  .
They differ from broader notions of human rights through  दावा of an अंतर्निहित ऐतिहासिक और परंपरागत पूर्वाग्रह विरूद्ध the कसरत  of rights by women and girls in favour of men and boys .
मुद्दे commonly संबद्ध साथ धारणाएं of महिलाओं 's अधिकारों शामिल , हालांकि हैं नहीं सीमित to , the सही : to  bodily integrity and autonomy ; to vote ( suffrage ) ; to hold public office ; to work ; to fair wages or equal pay ; to own property ; to education ; to serve in the military or be conscripted ; to enter into legal contracts ; and to have marital , parental and religious rights .
Caryn Elaine Johnson , best known as Whoopi  गोल्डबर्ग ( , ( born नवम्बर  13 , 1955 ) is an American comedienne , actress , singer-songwriter , political activist , author and talk show host .
Goldberg  बना उसके फिल्मी डेब्यू in the रंग जामुनी  ( 1985 ) , playing Celie , a mistreated black woman in the Deep South .
She received a nomination for the Academy Award for Best Actress and won her first Golden Globe Award  लिये उसके भूमिका in the फिल्मी  .
In 1990 , she played Oda Mae Brown , a wacky psychic  helping a slain man ( पैट्रिक swayze ) सहेजें उसके प्रेमी ( demi मूर ) in the ब्लॉकबस्टर  Ghost .
This performance won her a second Golden Globe and an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress ; this made Goldberg only the second black woman in the history of  the अकादमी पुरस्कार to जीत an एक्टिंग oscar—the पहला होने हैटी mcdaniel  who won for Gone With the Wind in 1939 .
Notable  बाद films शामिल सिस्टर अधिनियम और सिस्टर अधिनियम 2 , the खिलाड़ी ,  Made in America , How Stella Got Her Groove Back , Girl , Interrupted and Rat Race .
She is also acclaimed for her roles as the bartender Guinan in Star Trek : The Next Generation , as Terry Doolittle in Jumpin ' Jack Flash , and as  कार्मेन tibideaux in ग्ली , as खूब as the आवाज़ of shenzi the लकड़बग्घा in  The Lion King .
Goldberg has been nominated for 13 Emmy  पुरस्कार लिये उसके कार्य in टेलीविज़न  .
वो थी co-producer of the  popular game show Hollywood Squares from 1998 to 2004 .
वो रै महरूम the मॉडरेटर of the दिन  talk show The View since 2007 .
Goldberg has a  ग्रैमी , दो दिन emmys , दो सुनहरी ग्लोब्स  , a Tony ( for production , not acting ) , and an Oscar .
In addition , Goldberg has a British Academy Film Award ,  चार लोगों 's चुनाव पुरस्कार , और रै महरूम सम्मानित साथ a स्टार on the  Hollywood Walk of Fame .
She is one of the few  मनोरंजनकर्ता जो have जीती an एमी , ग्रैमी , ऑस्कर  , and Tony Award .
The National Hockey League ( NHL ; ) is an `` unincorporated not-for-profit association '' which operates a major professional ice hockey league of 30  franchised सदस्य क्लब , of जिससे सात हैं फिलहाल  located in Canada and 23 in the United States .
Headquartered in New  यॉर्क नगर , the एनएचएल is widely माना to be the प्रीमियर पेशेवर  ice hockey league in the world , and one of the major professional sports leagues in the United States and Canada .
The Stanley Cup , the oldest  पेशेवर खेल ट्रॉफी in उत्तर अमेरिका ,  is awarded annually to the league playoff champion at the end of each season .
The league was organized on November 26 , 1917 , in Montreal , Quebec ,  कनाडा , बाद the बर्खास्तगी of परिचालन of इसके पूर्ववर्ती संगठन ,  the National Hockey Association ( NHA ) , which had been founded in 1909 .
It started with  चार टीमों और , through a श्रेणी of expansions  , contractions , and relocations , the league is now composed of 30 active franchises .
The nation to which the name of the league originally referred  थी कनाडा , हालांकि the लीग रै अभी महरूम binational  since 1924 when it expanded into the United States .
After a labour dispute  कि led to the रद्दीकरण of the संपूर्ण 2004–05 ऋतु , the  league resumed play under a new collective bargaining agreement that included a salary cap .
In 2009 , the NHL enjoyed record highs in terms of  sponsorships , उपस्थिति ,  and television audiences .
The  एनएचएल draws अनेक अत्यधिक skilled  players from all over the world and currently has players from about 20 different countries .
Although Canadians have historically constituted the majority of the players in the NHL , over the past four plus  दशकों the percentages of us और यूरोपीय खिलाड़ी have increased दोनो क्युकी of the एनएचएल 's जारी विस्तार  from six to thirty clubs since 1967 , and the increased availability of highly skilled European players .
Maggots  feeding on carrion  .
A maggot is the larva of a fly ( order Diptera ) ; it is  लागू in particular to the लार्वे of brachyceran उड़ता , ऐसे as houseflies , चीज  flies , and blowflies , rather than larvae of the Nematocera , such as mosquitoes and Crane flies .
`` Maggot '' is not a technical term and should not be taken as  ऐसे ; in अनेक मानक पाठ्यपुस्तकों of कीटविज्ञान it करता नहीं  appear in the index at all .
In  अनेक non-technical ग्रन्थ  the term is used for insect larvae in general .
Other sources have coined their own  परिभाषाएं ; लिये उदाहरण : `` ...
The term applies to a grub when all trace of limbs has disappeared ...  '' और `` ... लागू to the footless लार्वे of dipters  . ''
Maggot-like fly larvae are of wide importance in ecology and medicine ; among other roles , various species are  prominent in रीसाइक्लिंग carrion और कचरा , attacking फसलों और foodstuffs , spreading  microbial infections , and causing myiasis .
Herod ( , Hordos , Greek : , Hērōdēs ) , also known  as हेरोदेस the ग्रेट ( 73/74 bce – 4 bce in  Jericho ) , was a Roman client king of Judea .
His epithet of `` the Great '' is  widely विवादित as he is वर्णित as `` a madman जो murdered उसके अपना  family and a great many rabbis `` .
He is also known for his colossal building projects in Jerusalem and elsewhere , including his expansion of the Second Temple in  जेरूसलम ( sometimes referred to as हेरोदेस 's टेम्पल ) और the निर्माण of the बंदरगाहों at caesarea  Maritima .
Important details of his  जीवनी हैं gleaned इससे the works of the  1st century CE Roman–Jewish historian Josephus Flavius .
The Romans made Herod 's son , Herod Archelaus , ethnarch of Judea , Samaria , and Idumea  ( biblical edom ) इससे 4 bce to 6 ce , referred  to as the tetrarchy of Judea .
Archelaus was judged incompetent by the Roman emperor Augustus  जो तब संयुक्त samaria , judea उचित और idumea into iudaea प्रांत अंतर्गत  rule of a prefect until age 41 .
Herod 's other son Herod Antipas was  tetrarch of galilee इससे  4 BCE–39 CE .
ABO blood  समूह antigens उपस्थित on रेड रक्त कोशिकाएं  and IgM antibodies present in the serum
The ABO blood group system is the most  महत्वपूर्ण रक्त प्रकार प्रणाली ( or रक्त समूह प्रणाली )  in human blood transfusion .
The  संबद्ध anti-a और anti-b antibodies हैं प्रायः igm antibodies , जिससे हैं प्रायः उत्पादित  in the first years of life by sensitization to environmental substances such as food , bacteria , and viruses .
ABO blood types are also  उपस्थित in कुछ अन्य पशु ,  for example apes such as chimpanzees , bonobos , and gorillas .
Year 1907 ( MCMVII ) was a common year starting on Tuesday ( link will display the full calendar ) of the  gregorian पंचांग और a आम साल starting on सोमवार of  the 13-day-slower Julian calendar .
Northville is  an affluent नगर स्तिथ  in and divided by Oakland and Wayne counties in the U.S. state of Michigan .
the क्षेत्रफल  is a suburb of Metropolitan Detroit .
the जनसांख्यिकी थी  5,970 at the 2010 census .
Most of  the नगर is in ओकलैंड  County , and is surrounded by the city of Novi .
The Wayne County  portion is घिरी by  Northville Township .
northville is परोसा  by Northville Public Schools .
The city is located northeast of  ऐन arbor और  northwest of Detroit .
Elaine Stritch ( born February 2 , 1925 ) is an  अमरीकी अभिनेत्री और vocalist  .
She has  appeared in numerous स्टेज plays और musicals , विशेषता films  , and many television programs .
She is known for her performance of `` The Ladies Who Lunch '' in Stephen Sondheim 's 1970 musical  कम्पनी , उसके 2001 one-woman दिखाएँ , ऐलेन stritch at स्वतंत्रता , और recently लिये उसके भूमिका as जोकर donaghy  's mother Colleen on NBC 's 30 Rock .
She  रै महरूम मनोनीत लिये the टोनी  Award five times in various categories .
Stritch is also a  three-time एमी पुरस्कार  winner .
Misfits is a British science fiction comedy-drama television show about a group of  यंग अपराधियों sentenced to कार्य  in a community service programme , where they obtain supernatural powers after a strange electrical storm .
The series  खोली in 2009 और is फिलहाल  ongoing .
Antonia Thomas , Iwan Rheon , Lauren Socha , Nathan Stewart-Jarrett , and Robert Sheehan  हैं introduced as अलीशा डैनियल्स , साइमन bellamy  , Kelly Bailey , Curtis Donovan , and Nathan Young respectively .
Sheehan left after the second series , replaced in  the तीसरा by जोसेफ gilgun  as Rudy Wade .
After the fourth  श्रेणी थी घोषित rheon , थामस और socha था बाएँ उनके भूमिकाएँ और होता be replaced by नई वर्ण  Karla Crome , Nathan McMullen and Matt Stokoe , as Jess , Finn and Alex respectively .
Midway  through the चौथी श्रेणी , stewart-jarrett  left while Natasha O'Keeffe joined the cast as Abbey Smith .
On 19 March 2013 , Channel 4 announced at a press event that they have  नवीनीकृत misfits लिये a पांचवां और फाइनल श्रेणी containing  8 episodes .
Brett Lorenzo Favre ( born October 10 , 1969 ) is a former American football quarterback who spent the majority of his  करियर साथ the ग्रीन खाड़ी पैकर्स of the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग  ( NFL ) .
He was a 20-year veteran of the NFL , having  निभाई क्वार्टरबैक लिये the अटलांटा falcons ( 1991 ) , ग्रीन खाड़ी पैकर्स (  1992 – 2007 ) , New York Jets ( 2008 ) and Minnesota Vikings ( 2009 – 2010 ) .
favre is the तभी क्वार्टरबैक in एनएफएल इतिहास to  throw for over 70,000 yards , over 500 touchdowns , over 300 interceptions , over 6,000 completions , and over 10,000 pass attempts .
Favre started at the quarterback position for the University of  दक्षिणी मिसिसिपी लिये चार सालो पहले होने चयनित in the दूसरी गोलाकार of the 1991  NFL Draft by Atlanta ( 33rd overall ) .
He was traded to Green Bay on February 10 , 1992 , for the 19th pick  in the 1992 एनएफएल ड्राफ्ट  .
Favre became the Packers '  starting क्वार्टरबैक in the चौथी  game of the 1992 season , stepping in for injured quarterback Don Majkowski , and started every game through the 2007 season .
He was traded to the New York Jets and started at quarterback for the 2008 season before  हस्ताक्षर साथ the वाइकिंग्स on अगस्त 18 , 2009 as उनके starting  quarterback .
He made  an एनएफएल रिकार्ड 297 लगातार  starts ( 321 including playoffs ) .
He is the only player to win  the  AP Most Valuable Player three consecutive times ( 1995–97 ) .
He has led teams to eight division championships ( 1995 , 1996 , 1997  , 2002 , 2003 , 2004 , 2007 , 2009 ) , पाँच nfc चैंपियनशिप खेल ( 1995 , 1996 , 1997 , 2007 , 2009 ) , और दो सुपर कटोरी दिखावे ( सुपर  Bowl XXXI , Super Bowl XXXII ) , winning one ( Super Bowl XXXI ) .
He holds many NFL records , including  सबसे करियर touchdown गुजरता , सबसे करियर गुजर गज , सबसे करियर pass completions , सबसे करियर pass  attempts , most career interceptions thrown , most consecutive starts by a player , most consecutive starts by a quarterback , most career victories as a starting quarterback , most sacked , and most fumbles .
He is also  referred to by उसके उपनाम  `` The Gunslinger '' .
The following  is a सूची of notable वायुयान  hijackings around the world .
The World Wide Web ( abbreviated as WWW or W3 , commonly  ज्ञात  as the web ) , is a system of interlinked hypertext documents accessed via the Internet .
With a web browser , one can view web pages that may contain text ,  बिंब , वीडियो , और अन्य मल्टीमीडिया , और navigate between उन्हें via hyperlinks  .
Using concepts from his earlier  हाइपरटेक्स्ट प्रणालियों जैसे enquire , अंग्रेजों इंजीनियर , कंप्यूटर वैज्ञानिक और at कि समय कर्मचारी of the cern , सर टिम berners-lee  , now Director of the World Wide Web Consortium ( W3C ) , wrote a proposal in March 1989 for what would eventually become the World Wide Web .
At CERN , a European research organisation near  जेनेवा straddling the किनारा between फ़्रांस और स्विट्ज़रलैंड , berners-lee और belgian कंप्यूटर वैज्ञानिक रॉबर्ट cailliau प्रस्तावित in 1990  to use hypertext `` to link and access information of various kinds as a web of nodes in which the user can browse at will '' , and they publicly introduced the project in December of the same year .
Wayne Lyman Morse ( October 20 , 1900July 22 , 1974 ) was a  राजनेता और attorney इससे ऑरेगॉन , संयुक्त राज्य , ज्ञात लिये उसके proclivity  for opposing his parties ' leadership , and specifically for his opposition to the Vietnam War on constitutional grounds .
Born in Madison , Wisconsin , and  शिक्षित at the विश्वविद्यालयों of wisconsin-madison और the विश्वविद्यालयों of मिनेसोटा विधि स्कूल , मोर्स  moved to Oregon in 1930 and began teaching at the University of Oregon School of Law .
During World War II he was elected to the United States  सीनेट as a रिपब्लिकन ; he became an स्वतंत्र  after Dwight D. Eisenhower 's election to the presidency in 1952 .
जबकि an स्वतंत्र , he नियत a रिकार्ड लिये  performing the second longest one-person filibuster in the history of the Senate .
Morse joined  the लोकतांत्रिक पार्टी in 1955  , and was reelected twice while a member of that party .
Morse made a brief run for the  लोकतांत्रिक पार्टी 's  presidential nomination in 1960 .
A few years later , Morse was one of only two Senators who opposed the Gulf of Tonkin Resolution , which authorized the  अध्यक्ष to लो सैन्य कार्रवाई in वियतनाम बगैर a घोषणा of युद्ध .
He  जारी to बोलो आउट विरूद्ध the युद्ध  in the ensuing years , and lost his 1968 bid for reelection to Bob Packwood , who criticized his strong opposition to the war .
Morse made two more bids  लिये reelection to the सीनेट पहले उसके  death in 1974 .
In parliamentary  कार्यविधि , a गति to तालिका रै  two different and contradictory meanings:
In the United States , to table usually means the to lay [ the topic ] on the table or to move for  postponement of विचार ; a प्रस्ताव to बर्खास्तगी विचार of a स्थगित  motion .
much कम प्रायः , it अर्थात् a गति  to `` put on the table '' : a proposal to begin consideration ( or reconsideration ) , a usage consistent with the rest of the English-speaking world .
In the rest of the English-speaking world such as the United Kingdom , to  तालिका अर्थात् to मूव to प्लेस [ the टॉपिक ] upon the तालिका ( or to मूव to प्लेस  on the table ) : a proposal to begin consideration ( or reconsideration ) of a proposal .
Both the American and the British dialects have the  भाव of `` to तालिका '' as to lay [ the टॉपिक ] on  the table or to cause [ the topic ] to lie on the table .
The difference is the idea of what the table is for , that of a shelf off to the  पक्ष , or an क्रियाशील  work bench .
The British meaning has the  भाव of the तालिका as होने an क्रियाशील कार्य बेंच , साथ the टॉपिक होने the बीच of ध्यान , माना और discussed by सब जबतक  it can be resolved , at which point it is taken off the 'table ' .
the अमरीकी भाव is कि the तालिका is जैसे कि of a शेल्फ , अभिलेख  , or long-term storage device , where the topic has been disposed of by sending it to the 'table ' and leaving it there .
Toy Story 3 is a 2010 American 3D computer  एनिमेटेड comedy-drama थाना फिल्मी , और the तीसरा  installment in the Toy Story series .
It was  उत्पादित by पिक्चर्स एनिमेशन  Studios and distributed by Walt Disney Pictures .
Directed  by ली unkrich , the फिल्मी थी released  worldwide from June through October in Disney Digital 3-D , RealD , and IMAX 3D .
Toy Story  3 थी  also the first film to be released theatrically with Dolby Surround 7.1 sound .
The screenplay was written by Michael  arndt , जबकि unkrich लिखा the स्टोरी साथ साथ  John Lasseter and Andrew Stanton , respectively director and co-writer of the two first films .
The plot focuses on the toys Woody , Buzz Lightyear , and their friends dealing with  an अनिश्चित भविष्य as उनके मालिक , एंडी  , prepares to leave for college .
Actors Tom Hanks , Tim  एलन , जोन cusack , डॉन rickles , estelle हैरिस , जॉन ratzenberger  , Wallace Shawn , Jeff Pidgeon , Jodi Benson , R. Lee Ermey , John Morris , and Laurie Metcalf reprised their voice-over roles from the previous films .
Jim Varney ,  जो निभाई slinky श्वान in the पहला दो  films , and Joe Ranft , who portrayed Lenny and Wheezy , both died before production began on Toy Story 3 .
The role of  slinky श्वान थी लिया over by ब्लेक क्लार्क ( a dost of varney ) ,  while Ranft 's characters and various others were written out of the story .
New characters include performances by Ned  beatty , टिमोथी डाल्टन , क्रिस्टन schaal , bonnie  Hunt , Whoopi Goldberg , Jeff Garlin , Richard Kind , and Michael Keaton .
The feature broke Shrek the Thirds record as the  biggest खोलने दिन उत्तर अमरीकी सकल लिये an एनिमेटेड  film unadjusted for inflation , and a big opening with an unadjusted gross of $ 110,307,189 .
It is also the highest-grossing opening weekend for a Pixar film , as well as the highest-grossing  खोलने वीकेंड  for a film to have opened in the month of June .
इस is the highest-grossing फिल्मी of  2010 , both in the United States and Canada , and worldwide .
In early August , it became Pixar 's highest-grossing film at the North American box office ( surpassing  ढूंढना nemo ) , और the highest-grossing एनिमेटेड फिल्मी of सब समय  worldwide ( surpassing Shrek 2 ) ; later that month , Toy Story 3 became the first ever animated film in history to make over $ 1 billion worldwide .
It is currently  the 10th-highest-grossing  film of all time .
खिलौना स्टोरी 3 थी मनोनीत लिये पाँच अकादमी पुरस्कार  , including Best Picture , Best Adapted Screenplay , and Best Sound Editing .
It  थी the तीसरा एनिमेटेड  film ( after Beauty and the Beast and Up ) to be nominated for Academy Award for Best Picture .
It won the awards for Best  एनिमेटेड विशेषता और बेहतरीन असली सोंग  .
जॉन levell starks  ( born August 10 , 1965 ) is an American retired professional basketball shooting guard .
Starks was listed at 6'5 '' and  190 पाउंड दौरान उसके एनबीए  playing career .
Although he was not drafted in the 1988 NBA Draft after attending four colleges in his native Oklahoma , including Oklahoma State University , he gained fame while playing for the New York  knicks of the नेशनल बास्केट संघ  in the 1990s .
Secure Digital or ( SD ) is a non-volatile memory card format for use in portable devices , such as mobile phones ,  डिजिटल कैमरे , gps नेविगेशन डिवाइस , और टैब्लेट कंप्यूटर .
The Secure Digital standard is maintained by the SD Card  संघ ( sda )  .
SD  technologies have महरूम implemented in अधिक than 400 ब्रांड्स  across dozens of product categories and more than 8,000 models .
The Secure Digital format includes four card families  उपलब्धियाँ in तीन अलग रूप कारकों  .
The four families are the original Standard-Capacity (  sdsc ) , the high-capacity ( sdhc ) , the extended-capacity ( sdxc ) ,  and the SDIO , which combines input/output functions with data storage .
The  तीन रूप कारकों हैं the असली आकार  , the `` mini '' size , and the `` micro '' size ( see illustration ) .
There are many combinations of form  कारकों और यंत्र परिवारों  .
Electrically passive adapters allow the  उपयोग of a छोटी कार्ड in a मेजबान यंत्र  built to hold a larger card .
Host devices that comply with  नए संस्करण of the specification provide पिछड़ा  compatibility and accept older SD cards , but this article explains several factors that can prevent the use of a newer SD card:
A newer card may offer greater capacity than the host  यंत्र can हैंडल  .
A newer card may use a file system the host  यंत्र can नहीं navigate  .
Use of an SDIO card requires the host device be designed for the  input/output कृत्यों the कार्ड provides  .
The organization of the card was changed  starting साथ the sdhc परिवार  .
Some vendors produced SDSC cards above 1 GB before the  sda था मानकीकृत a विधि of  doing so .
The SDA uses several  trademarked लोगो to enforce अनुपालन साथ इसके  specifications and assure users of compatibility .
Hugh John Mungo Grant ( born 9 September 1960 ) is a  अंग्रेजों कर्ता और फिल्मी निर्माता .
He has received a Golden  ग्लोब , a  BAFTA , and an Honorary César .
His films have earned  अधिक than us $ 2.4 अरब इससे  25 theatrical releases worldwide .
Grant achieved international stardom after appearing in  रिचर्ड कर्टिस 's कामयाब चार विवाह  and a Funeral ( 1994 ) .
He used this breakthrough role as a frequent cinematic persona  दौरान the 1990s , delivering कॉमिक प्रदर्शन in  mainstream films like Mickey Blue Eyes ( 1999 ) and Notting Hill ( 1999 ) .
By the turn of the 21st century , he had established  खुद as a अग्रणी man skilled साथ a satirical कॉमिक हुनर  .
Grant has expanded his oeuvre with critically acclaimed turns as a cad in Bridget Jones 's  डायरी ( 2001 ) , परिचय a लड़के ( 2002 ) , प्रेम दरअसल ( 2003  ) , and American Dreamz ( 2006 ) .
He later played against type with multiple cameo  भूमिकाएँ in the एपिक नाटक फिल्मी बादल एटलस ( 2012 )  .
Within the film industry , Grant is  cited as an anti-film स्टार जो approaches उसके भूमिकाएँ जैसे a अक्षर  actor , and attempts to make his acting appear spontaneous .
Hallmarks of his comic skills include a nonchalant  टच of विडंबना / sarcasm और पढ़ाई शारीरिक mannerisms  as well as his precisely-timed dialogue delivery and facial expressions .
The entertainment  मीडिया 's कवरेज of ग्रान्ट 's जीवन बंद  the big screen has often overshadowed his work as a thespian .
he रै महरूम गायन परिचय उसके अनादर लिये the व्यवसायिक of  acting , and in his disdain towards the culture of celebrity and hostility towards the media .
In a career spanning 30 years , Grant has repeatedly  claimed कि एक्टिंग is नहीं a सच्चा  calling but just a job he fell into .
The Han Dynasty ( ; ) ( 206 BC – 220 AD ) was an imperial dynasty of China , preceded by the Qin Dynasty (  221–207 bc ) और succeeded by the तीन kingdoms (  220–280 AD ) .
It was founded by the rebel leader  लियू बंग , ज्ञात  posthumously as Emperor Gaozu of Han .
It was  briefly बाधित by the xin राजवंश  ( 9–23 AD ) of the former regent Wang Mang .
This interregnum separates the Han into two  अवधि : the पश्चिमी हान ( 206 bc – 9  AD ) and Eastern Han ( 25–220 AD ) .
Spanning over four centuries , the period of  the हान राजवंश is माना a  golden age in Chinese history .
To this day , China 's majority ethnic group refers to itself as  the `` हान लोगों '' और the चाइनीज स्क्रिप्ट is referred to  as `` Han characters `` .
The Han Empire was divided into areas directly controlled by the central government , known  as commanderies , और a क्रमांक of semi-autonomous  kingdoms .
These kingdoms gradually lost all  vestiges of उनके स्वतंत्रता , विशेषकर following  the Rebellion of the Seven States .
The Xiongnu , a nomadic confederation which dominated the eastern Eurasian Steppe  , पराजित the हान फौज in बैटल  in 200 BC .
Following the defeat , a political marriage alliance was  negotiated in जिससे the हान became the de facto  inferior partner .
When ,  despite the सन्धि , the xiongnu जारी to  raid Han borders , Emperor Wu of Han ( r. 141–87 BC ) launched several military campaigns against them .
The ultimate Han victory in these wars eventually forced the Xiongnu  to accept vassal औकात as हान tributaries .
These campaigns expanded Han sovereignty into the Tarim Basin of Central Asia and helped  स्थापित the विशाल व्यापार संजाल ज्ञात as the रेशा सड़क , जिससे पहुँचे as दूर  as the Mediterranean world .
Han forces managed to divide  the xiongnu into दो स्पर्धा राष्ट्र , the दक्षिणी  and Northern Xiongnu , and forced the Northern Xiongnu across the Ili River .
Despite these victories , the territories north of Han  's सीमायें यहूद जल्दी overrun by  the nomadic Xianbei Confederation .
After 92 AD , the palace eunuchs increasingly involved themselves in court politics , engaging in violent power struggles between the various  consort clans of the empresses और सम्राज्ञी dowagers , causing the हान 's परम  downfall .
Imperial authority was also seriously challenged by large Daoist religious societies which instigated  the पीला पगड़ी विद्रोह और the पाँच pecks of राइस विद्रोह  .
Following the death of Emperor Ling ( r. 168–189 AD ) , the palace eunuchs suffered wholesale massacre by military officers , allowing  सदस्यों of the aristocracy और सैन्य राज्यपालों to become  warlords and divide the empire .
When Cao Pi , King of Wei , usurped the throne from  सम्राट xian , the हान राजवंश ceased to मौजूद  .
The Han Dynasty was an age of economic prosperity and saw a significant growth of the money economy  पहला स्थापित दौरान the झोऊ राजवंश  ( c. 1050–256 BC ) .
The coinage issued  by the सेंट्रल सरकारी मिंट in 119 bc  remained the standard coinage of China until the Tang Dynasty ( 618–907 AD ) .
To pay for its military campaigns and the settlement of newly conquered  frontier territories , the सरकारी राष्ट्रीयकृत the निजी नमक और आयरन  industries in 117 BC .
These government monopolies were repealed during the Eastern Han period , and the lost revenue was recouped through heavily taxing  निजी उद्यमियों  .
the सम्राट थी at  the pinnacle of Han society .
He presided over the Han  सरकारी लकिन साझा शक्ति साथ दोनो the धामों  and appointed ministers who came largely from the scholarly gentry class .
From the reign of Emperor Wu  onward , the चाइनीज अदालत officially प्रायोजित confucianism  in education and court politics , synthesized with the cosmology of later scholars such as Dong Zhongshu .
This policy endured  जबतक the पतन of the  Qing Dynasty in 1911 AD .
Science and technology  दौरान the हान  period saw significant advances , including papermaking , the nautical steering rudder , the use of negative numbers in mathematics , the raised-relief map , the hydraulic -powered armillary sphere for astronomy , and a seismometer employing an inverted pendulum .
Tourette syndrome ( also called Tourette 's syndrome , Tourette 's disorder , Gilles de la Tourette syndrome , GTS or , more commonly , simply Tourette 's or TS ) is an inherited neuropsychiatric disorder with onset in childhood ,  characterized by अनेक शारीरिक ( मोटर ) tics और at तनिक एक गायन  ( phonic ) tic .
These tics  characteristically मोम और wane  , can be suppressed temporarily , and are preceded by a premonitory urge .
Tourette 's is defined as part of a spectrum of tic disorders  , जिससे शामिल क्षणिक और दीर्घकालिक  tics .
Tourette 's was  एकबार माना a विरल और विचित्र सिंड्रोम , सबसे प्रायः संबद्ध  with the exclamation of obscene words or socially inappropriate and derogatory remarks ( coprolalia ) , but this symptom is present in only a small minority of people with Tourette 's .
Tourette 's is no longer considered a rare condition , but it is not  सदा correctly पहचाना क्युकी  most cases are mild and the severity of tics decreases for most children as they pass through adolescence .
Between 0.4 % and 3.8 % of  children आयु 5 to 18 may have tourette 's ; the व्यापकता of क्षणिक और दीर्घकालिक  tics in school-age children is higher , with the more common tics of eye blinking , coughing , throat clearing , sniffing , and facial movements .
Extreme Tourette 's in adulthood is a rarity , and Tourette 's does not  adversely affect प्रज्ञा or जीवन प्रत्याशा  .
Genetic and  पर्यावरणीय कारकों खेल a भूमिका in the etiology  of Tourette 's , but the exact causes are unknown .
in सबसे मामले  , medication is unnecessary .
There is no  प्रभावी उपचार लिये प्रत्येक मामला  of tics , but certain medications and therapies can help when their use is warranted .
Education is an important part of any treatment  योजना , और स्पष्टीकरण और reassurance  alone are often sufficient treatment .
Comorbid conditions ( co-occurring diagnoses other than Tourette 's ) such  as attention-deficit अतिसक्रियता विकार ( adhd ) और obsessive–compulsive विकार ( ओसीडी ) हैं उपस्थित  in many patients seen in tertiary specialty clinics .
These other conditions often cause more functional impairment to the individual than the tics that are the hallmark of Tourette 's , hence  it is महत्वपूर्ण to correctly पहचानो comorbid शर्तें और  treat them .
The eponym was bestowed by Jean-Martin Charcot ( 1825–1893 ) on behalf of his resident , Georges Albert Édouard Brutus  गाइल्स de la tourette ( 1859–1904 ) , a फ्रेंच चिकित्सक और neurologist  , who published an account of nine patients with Tourette 's in 1885 .
Sunbeam  बैज .
Sunbeam was a marque  पंजीकृत by जॉन marston  Co. Ltd of Wolverhampton , England , in 1888 .
The company first made bicycles , then motorcycles and cars from the late 19th century  जबतक परिचय 1936 , और लागू the marque to सब  three forms of transportation .
The company also  manufactured एयरो इंजन in the पहला संसार युद्ध  and 647 aircraft during the Second World War .
A Sunbeam was the first British car to win a Grand  प्रिक्स रेस , और नियत a क्रमांक  of land speed records .
The company  गई into receivership in 1935 और थी खरीदा  by the Rootes Group , which continued to use the Sunbeam marque .
Fox News Channel ( FNC ) , also known as Fox News , is a cable news channel owned by  the फॉक्स entertainment समूह , a subsidiary of न्यूज निगम  .
As of April 2009 , the channel was available to 102  लाख households in the संयुक्त राज्य और to दर्शक internationally  , broadcasting primarily from its New York studios .
The channel was created by Australian-American media mogul Rupert Murdoch  , जो नियुक्त पूर्व एनबीसी कार्यपालिका रोजर ailes as इसके  founding CEO .
It  शुभारम्भ on अक्तूबर  7 , 1996 to 17 million cable subscribers .
It grew during the late 1990s and 2000s to become the dominant  केबल न्यूज संजाल in the संयुक्त  States .
Critics have  stated कि फॉक्स न्यूज चैनल promotes रूढ़िवादी  political positions and biased reporting .
टीकाकारों , न्यूज anchors , और पत्रकारों at फॉक्स न्यूज चैनल have responded कि न्यूज रिपोर्टिंग और राजनैतिक  commentary operate independently of each other , and have denied any bias in news reporting .
The mandibular first molar or six-year molar is the tooth located distally ( away from the midline  of the फेस ) इससे दोनो the mandibular दूसरी premolars of the मुँह लकिन mesial  ( toward the midline of the face ) from both mandibular second molars .
It is located on the  mandibular ( निम्नतर ) मेहराब of the मुँह , और generally opposes the ऊर्ध्वहनु  ( upper ) first molars and the maxillary 2nd premolar in normal class I occlusion .
The  फलन of इस molar is समान to कि  of all molars in regard to grinding being the principal action during mastication , commonly known as chewing .
There are usually five well-developed cusps on  mandibular पहला molars : दो on the buccal ( पक्ष निकटतम the गाल  ) , two lingual ( side nearest the tongue ) , and one distal .
There are great differences between the  पतझड़ी ( baby ) mandibular molars और  those of the permanent mandibular molars , even though their function are similar .
The  स्थाई mandibular  molars are not considered to have any teeth that precede it .
Despite being named molars , the deciduous molars  हैं followed by स्थाई premolars  .
In the  सार्वभौमिक प्रणाली of संकेतन , the पतझड़ी mandibular  first molars are designated by a letter written in uppercase .
The right  पतझड़ी mandibular पहला  molar is known as `` S '' , and the left one is known as `` L '' .
The international notation has a different  प्रणाली of संकेतन  .
Thus , the right deciduous mandibular first molar is known as `` 84 '' ,  और the बाएँ एक is ज्ञात  as `` 74 '' .
In the  सार्वभौमिक प्रणाली of संकेतन  , the permanent mandibular first molars are designated by a number .
The right permanent  mandibular पहला molar is ज्ञात as `` 30  '' , and the left one is known as `` 19 '' .
The Palmer notation uses a number in  संयोजन साथ a प्रतीक designating  in which quadrant the tooth is found .
For this tooth  , the बाएँ और सही पहला molars होता have the वही क्रमांक , ``  6 '' , but the right one would have the symbol , `` ┐ '' , over it , while the left one would have , `` ┌ '' .
The international notation has a different numbering system than  the पिछला दो , और the सही स्थाई mandibular पहला molar is ज्ञात as `` 46 '' , और the बाएँ  one is known as `` 36 '' .
mandibular प्राथमिक  first molars usually have four pulp horns .
The first molar is usually the first permanent tooth to  erupt और  has adult undertones .
Anatomy : The mandibular first molar has five cusps : the mesiobuccal ( MB , toward midline and cheek ) , mesiolingual ( ML , toward midline and tongue ) , distolingual ( DL , away from midline and towards tongue ) ,  distobuccal ( db , दूर इससे midline और toward गाल ) , और distal ( d , दूर इससे midline ) , सूचीबद्ध in अनुक्रम  of decreasing size .
Listed in order of decreasing height they are : ML , DL , DF , MF ,  और D. an आठवीं cusp थी मिला in a प्राथमिक दूसरी निम्नतर molar  in an Argentinean child .
Viewed from the top of the tooth ( occlusal view ) , the mandibular first molar is pentagonal ( five sided ) in shape and tapers toward the lingual , with the  पहलू होने the buccal सतह , the mesial सतह , the lingual सतह , distal  surface , and the distobuccal surface .
The  occlusal सतह रै  four grooves .
The central groove is not straight but runs down  the बीच of the दाँत mesially to distally और contains चार गड्ढों ( mesial  , central , central , and distal ) .
The distobuccal groove runs from  the distal गड्ढे in the सेंट्रल नाली distobuccally  separating the distal and distobuccal cusps .
The lingual groove runs from the more distal of the central pits in the central  नाली toward the lingual सतह between the mesiolingual और distolingual पुलिन  .
The buccal groove runs from the more mesial of the central pits in the central groove  toward the buccal सतह between the mesiobuccal और distobuccal  cusps ending in the buccal pit .
The portion of the central  नाली between the सेंट्रल गड्ढों  is termed the Lewis offset and is mandatory to account for the locations of the buccal and lingual grooves ( buccal groove being more mesial than the lingual groove while they are parallel ) .
From the buccal (  buccal दृश्य ) , दो जड़ें  are present .
The distal root is  generally straighter , हालांकि दोनो प्रायः have a पतला  distal curvature .
The heights of contour on the mesial and distal contact the adjacent teeth and are located at the  जंक्शन of the occlusal और मध्य तिहाई  of the crown .
The Florida Legislature is the two houses that act as the state  विधानमंडल of the u.S. राज्य  of Florida .
The Florida Constitution states that `` The legislative power  of the राज्य shall be vested in a विधानमंडल of  the State of Florida , '' composed of a Senate and House of Representatives .
The  विधानमंडल is seated at the  Florida State Capitol in Tallahassee .
stained कांच चित्रण  of Daniel interceding with Arioch , the king 's guard .
Arioch  था महरूम चार्ज साथ हत्या सब the हिकमत मेन बाद वे  were not able to interpret Nebuchadnezzar 's dream .
Daniel 2  is the दूसरी अध्याय of the किताब  of Daniel in the Hebrew Bible .
The chapter 's source text  is predominantly लिखा  in Aramaic .
According to the text ,  nebuchadnezzar is the  king of Babylon who is troubled by his dreams .
He demands  an निर्वचन लिये उसके सपनो or  will have his mystic interpreters executed .
डेनियल seeks दैवी अक्ल to interpret the  king 's dreams and praises God with a short psalm .
God  देता डेनियल a दृष्टि in  the night to reveal the king 's dream .
Able to satisfy the  किंग , डेनियल is प्रचारित  over the whole province of Babylon .
एक comcast बीच  , the headquarters of Comcast in Philadelphia , PA .
the बूढ़ा comcast लोगो इससे  1969 to 1999 , when it was replaced with the crescent logo .
The Comcast Corporation is an  अमरीकी प्रदाता of entertainment , सूचना  and communications products and services .
It is the largest cable  ऑपरेटर , एक of the biggest द्रव्यमान मीडिया , घर अंतरजाल सेवा प्रदाता , और तीसरा largest घर टेलीफोन सेवा प्रदाता in the संयुक्त राज्य , providing केबल टेलीविज़न , ब्रॉडबैंड  Internet , telephone service and in some areas home security ( including burglar alarms , surveillance cameras , fire alarm systems and home automation ) to both residential and commercial customers in 40 states and the District of Columbia .
The company is  headquartered in फिलाडेल्फिया , पेन्सिलवेनिया  .
In 2011 , Comcast acquired a 51 % majority stake in media conglomerate NBCUniversal  इससे ge in जनवरी 2011 , और began the प्रक्रम of खरीदना the बाकी  49 % on February 12 , 2013 , at a cost of $ 16.7 billion .
it समाप्त  the purchase on March 19 , 2013 .
Comcast also has  significant पकड़कर  in several cable networks ( including E !
Entertainment Television , Style Network , G4 , the Golf Channel and NBC Sports Network ) ,  वितरण ( theplatform ) , और सम्बन्धित व्यवसायों  .
Comcast has been the subject of criticism for activities including  इसके stance on जाल neutrality , as खूब as ग़रीब परिणाम on ग्राहक संतोष  surveys .
Porcupines are rodents with a coat of sharp spines , or  quills , कि बचाव और camouflage  them from predators .
They are indigenous to the  americas , दक्षिणी एशिया ,  and Africa .
Porcupines are the third largest of the rodents  , पीछे the capybara और the बीवर  .
Most  porcupines हैं परिचय long  , with an long tail .
weighing  , they are rounded , large and slow .
porcupines आइये in विभिन्न  shades of brown , gray , and the unusual white .
Porcupines ' spiny protection resembles that of the unrelated  erinaceomorph hedgehogs और monotreme  echidnas .
the आम साही  is a herbivore .
It eats leaves , herbs , twigs and green plants like skunk cabbage  और क्लोवर और in the शीत it may खा छाल  .
The North  अमरीकी साही प्रायः  climbs trees to find food .
The African porcupine is not a  climber और forages on the  ground .
It is  ज़्यादातर nocturnal , लकिन होगा  sometimes forage for food in the day .
Porcupines  have become a pest  in Kenya and are eaten as a delicacy .
The name porcupine comes  इससे मध्य फ्रेंच porc espin  ( spined pig ) .
A regional  अमरीकी नाम लिये the  animal is quill pig .
First page of US patent  129,843 लिये सुधार in lubricators  for Steam-Engines
Elijah J. McCoy ( May 2 , 1844 – October 10 ,  1929 ) थी a ब्लैक canadian-american आविष्कारक और इंजीनियर , जो थी notable लिये उसके 57 u.S. patents , सबसे  to do with lubrication of steam engines .
Born free in Canada , he returned as a five-year-old child with his family to the United States in  1847 , जहाँ he जिया लिये the बाकी of उसके जीवन और became a us नागरिक  .
Honda FCX Clarity , a hydrogen fuel  कोशिका demonstration गाडी  introduced in 2008
A hydrogen vehicle is a vehicle that uses  हाइड्रोजन as इसके onboard ईंधन लिये motive  power .
Hydrogen vehicles include hydrogen fueled space  rockets , as खूब as ऑटोमोबाइल और अन्य परिवहन  vehicles .
The  शक्ति पौधे of ऐसे वाहनों बदलें the रासायनिक उर्जा of हाइड्रोजन to mechanical  energy either by burning hydrogen in an internal combustion engine , or by reacting hydrogen with oxygen in a fuel cell to run electric motors .
Widespread use of hydrogen for fueling  परिवहन is a कुंजी तत्व of a प्रस्तावित  hydrogen economy .
Hydrogen fuel does not occur naturally on  धरती और यूँ is नहीं an उर्जा सोर्स  ; rather it is an energy carrier .
It is most frequently made from methane or other fossil fuels , but it can be produced using sources ( such as wind , solar ,  or नाभिकीय ) कि हैं intermittent , too व्याप्त or too cumbersome to सीधे  propel vehicles .
Integrated wind-to-hydrogen plants , using electrolysis of water ,  हैं exploring technologies to उद्धार लागत कम पर्याप्त , और quantities ग्रेट पर्याप्त  , to compete with traditional energy sources .
Many  कंपनियाँ हैं working to develop technologies कि might  efficiently exploit the potential of hydrogen energy for mobile uses .
The attraction of using hydrogen as an energy currency  is कि , if हाइड्रोजन is prepared बगैर using चट्टान ईंधन inputs ,  vehicle propulsion would not contribute to carbon dioxide emissions .
The drawbacks of hydrogen use are high capital cost , low energy content per unit volume , high tankage weights , very high storage vessel pressures , the storage ,  परिवहन और भरना of गैसीय or द्रव हाइड्रोजन in वाहनों , the विशाल निवेश in अवसंरचना कि होता be जरूरी to ईंधन वाहनों , और the inefficiency  of production processes .
Sacramento is  the पूंजी नगर of the u.S. राज्य of कैलिफ़ोर्निया और  the seat of government of Sacramento County .
It is located at the confluence  of the sacramento नदी और the अमरीकी नदी in the  northern portion of California 's expansive Central Valley .
With an estimated 2011  जनसांख्यिकी of 477,891 , it is the sixth-largest नगर in कैलिफ़ोर्निया और the 35th  largest city in the United States .
sacramento is the कोर सांस्कृतिक और आर्थिक बीच of the sacramento महानगर क्षेत्रफल जिससे शामिल  seven counties with an estimated 2009 population of 2,527,123 .
Its metropolitan area is the fourth  largest in कैलिफ़ोर्निया बाद the वृहद लॉस एंजिल्स क्षेत्रफल , सैन  Francisco Bay Area , and the San Diego metropolitan area , as well as the 25th largest in the United States .
sacramento थी cited by समय पत्रिका  as America 's most ethnically and racially integrated city in 2002 .
sacramento became a नगर through the प्रयत्न of the स्विस अप्रवासी जॉन  Sutter , Sr. , his son John Sutter , Jr. , and James W. Marshall .
Sacramento grew quickly thanks to the protection of Sutter 's  फोर्ट , जिससे थी स्थापित by sutter  in 1839 .
During the California Gold Rush , Sacramento was a major distribution  पाइंट , a वाणिज्यिक और agricultural बीच , और a  terminus for wagon trains , stagecoaches , riverboats , the telegraph , the Pony Express , and the First Transcontinental Railroad .
California State University , Sacramento , more commonly  ज्ञात as sacramento राज्य or सैक राज्य  , is the largest local university .
It is one of the  twenty-three campuses of the कैलिफ़ोर्निया  State University system .
Drexel University  sacramento is स्तिथ in शहर  , Sacramento .
University of the  प्रशांत 's mcgeorge स्कूल of विधि is स्तिथ  in the Oak Park neighborhood .
In addition , the University of California , Davis is  स्तिथ in आसपास डेविस , वेस्ट of the पूंजी  .
The UC Davis Medical Center , a  world-renowned शोध हॉस्पिटल , is  located in the city of Sacramento .
The  ठहराना स्टोर is a कड़ी of खुदरा स्टोर्स स्वामित्व और संचालित  by Apple Inc. , dealing in computers and consumer electronics .
The stores sell Macintosh personal  कंप्यूटर  , software , iPods , iPads , iPhones , third-party accessories , and other consumer electronics such as Apple TV .
Some high profile stores feature a Theatre  लिये प्रस्तुतियों और वर्कशॉप और a स्टुडियो लिये प्रशिक्षण साथ ठहराना  products ; all stores offer a Genius Bar for technical support and repairs , as well as free workshops available to the public .
Under the leadership of Ron Johnson , the former Senior Vice President of Retail Operations , the Apple Stores have , according to  an आलेख in the नई यॉर्क टाइम्स , महरूम जिम्मेदार लिये `` [ turning ] the उबाऊ कंप्यूटर बिक्री मंजिल into a sleek playroom  filled with gadgets '' .
, Apple has 405 stores worldwide , with global sales of billion in  merchandise in 2011 , और वे सीसे the संयुक्त राज्य खुदरा मार्केट  in terms of sales per unit area .
स्टीवन पॉल `` स्टीव '' कार्य ( ; फ़रवरी 24 , 1955 – अक्तूबर  5 , 2011 ) was an American entrepreneur and inventor , best known as the co-founder , chairman , and CEO of Apple Inc .
through ठहराना , he थी widely पहचाना as a charismatic पायोनियर  of the personal computer revolution and for his influential career in the computer and consumer electronics fields , transforming `` one industry after another , from computers and smartphones to music and movies ... ''
Jobs also co-founded and served as chief executive of Pixar Animation Studios ; he  became a सदस्य of the  board of directors of The Walt Disney Company in 2006 , when Disney acquired Pixar .
Jobs was among the first to see the commercial potential of Xerox PARC  's चूहा -ड्राइवn आलेखीय उपयोक्ता इंटरफ़ेस , जिससे led to the सृष्टि of the  Apple Lisa and , one year later , the Macintosh .
He also played a role in introducing the  laserwriter , एक of the पहला widely उपलब्धियाँ लेज़र  printers , to the market .
After a power struggle with the board of directors in 1985 , Jobs left Apple and founded NeXT , a computer  मंच विकास कम्पनी specializing in the higher-education और कारोबार  markets .
In 1986 , he acquired the  कंप्यूटर ग्राफिक्स प्रभाग of लुकासफ़िल्म  , which was spun off as Pixar .
He was  credited in खिलौना स्टोरी  ( 1995 ) as an executive producer .
He served  as सीईओ और बहुमत shareholder जबतक डिज़्नी  's purchase of Pixar in 2006 .
In 1996 , after Apple had failed  to उद्धार इसके ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली , copland , gil amelio turned to अगला कंप्यूटर ,  and the NeXTSTEP platform became the foundation for the Mac OS X .
Jobs returned to  ठहराना as an सलाहकार  , and took control of the company as an interim CEO .
Jobs brought Apple from  निकट दिवालियापन to profitability  by 1998 .
As the new CEO of the company , Jobs oversaw the  विकास of the imac , itunes , ipod , iphone , और ipad , और on the सेवाएं पक्ष , the कम्पनी 's ठहराना  Retail Stores , iTunes Store and the App Store .
The success of these products and services provided several years of stable  वित्तीय रिटर्न , और propelled ठहराना to become the संसार 's सबसे मूल्यवान सरेआम  traded company in 2011 .
The reinvigoration of the company is  regarded by अनेक टीकाकारों as एक of the  greatest turnarounds in business history .
In 2003  , कार्य थी diagnosed साथ a  pancreas neuroendocrine tumor .
Though it was initially treated , he reported a hormone imbalance , underwent a liver  प्रत्यारोपण in 2009 , और appeared progressively thinner as  his health declined .
On medical leave for most of 2011 , Jobs resigned in August that year , and  थी निर्वाचित अध्यक्ष  of the Board .
He died of respiratory arrest related to his metastatic  ट्यूमर on अक्तूबर 5  , 2011 .
Jobs received a number of honors and public recognition for  उसके influence in the प्रौद्योगिकी  and music industries .
He has been referred to as ``  legendary '' , a `` futurist '' or बस `` दूरदर्शी '' , और रै महरूम वर्णित  as the `` Father of the Digital Revolution '' , a `` master of innovation '' , and a `` design perfectionist '' .
Entrance to  खण्ड ( 52 ) of the कोलोसियम  , with numerals still visible
Roman numerals , the numeric system  in प्राचीन रोम , उपयोग combinations of अक्षर इससे the लैटिन  alphabet to signify values .
The numbers 1 to  10 can be expressed  in Roman numerals as follows:
और  .
The  रोमन numeral प्रणाली is a cousin  of Etruscan numerals .
Use of Roman numerals continued after the decline of  the रोमन साम्राज्य .
From  the 14th सदी on , रोमन numerals began to be replaced in सबसे contexts by  more convenient Hindu-Arabic numerals ; however this process was gradual , and the use of Roman numerals in some minor applications continues to this day .
Effective  नाभिकीय चार्ज आरेख
The effective nuclear charge ( often symbolize as or Z* ) is the net positive  चार्ज अनुभवी by an इलेक्ट्रॉन in a multi-electron अणु  .
The term ``  प्रभावी '' is प्रयुक्त क्युकी the shielding प्रभाव of negatively चार्ज electrons  prevents higher orbital electrons from experiencing the full nuclear charge by the repelling effect of inner-layer electrons .
The  प्रभावी नाभिकीय चार्ज अनुभवी by the बाहरी शेल  electron is also called the core charge .
It is possible to determine the strength of the nuclear charge  by looking at the ऑक्सीकरण क्रमांक of the अणु  .
This is a list  of एपीसोड इससे the डिस्कवरी  Channel series , Storm Chasers .
A  ग्रामीण खींचें of i-5 , साथ दो गलियों in प्रत्येक दिशा अलग by a विशाल grassy  median , and with cross-traffic limited to overpasses and underpasses
The  ड्वाइट D. आइज़नहावर नेशनल प्रणाली of अंतरराज्यीय और रक्षा राजमार्गों ( commonly ज्ञात as the अंतरराज्यीय राजमार्ग प्रणाली , अंतरराज्यीय फ्रीवे  System , Interstate System , or simply the Interstate ) is a network of freeways that forms a part of the National Highway System of the United States .
The system is named for President Dwight D.  आइज़नहावर , जो championed  its formation .
Construction was authorized by the Federal Aid Highway Act of  1956 , और the असली portion  was completed 35 years later .
The network has since been extended , and , it had a total length of , making it the world 's second longest after China  's . , परिचय one-quarter of सब गाडी मील चलित in the देश उपयोग the  Interstate system .
The cost of construction has been estimated at $  425 अरब ( in  2006 dollars ) , making it the `` largest public works program since the Pyramids `` .
The system has contributed in  shaping the संयुक्त राज्य into a संसार आर्थिक महाशक्ति और  a highly industrialized nation .
.eu  is the देश कोड top-level डोमेन  ( ccTLD ) for the European Union ( EU ) .
Launched on 7 December 2005 , the domain is available  लिये संगठनों  in and residents of EU member states .
The TLD is administered by EURid , a consortium originally consisting of the  नेशनल  ccTLD registry operators of Belgium , Sweden , and Italy , joined later by the national registry operator of the Czech Republic .
Trademark  स्वामी यहूद समर्थ to submit  registrations through a sunrise period , in an effort to prevent cybersquatting .
Full  पंजीकरण प्रारंभ on  7 April 2006 .
Meister means master in German (  as in निपुण craftsman , or as an honorific  title such as Meister Eckhart ) .
The word is akin  to maestro  .
In sports , Meister is used for the current national , European or world  चैंपियन ( deutscher meister , *europameister , weltmeister )  .
अनेक आधुनिक दिन जर्मनी पुलिस शक्तियां  use the title Meister .
During the Second  संसार युद्ध , meister थी the  highest enlisted rank of the Ordnungspolizei .
meister रै महरूम उधार into अंग्रेज़ी  slang , where it is used in compound nouns .
A person referred to as “Meister” is one who has extensive theoretical knowledge and  व्यावहारिक कौशल in उसके व्यवसायिक , कारोबार , or कुछ अन्य दयालु of कार्य or कार्यकलाप  .
For example , a  “puzzle-meister” होता be किसी अत्यधिक  skilled at solving puzzles .
These neologisms sometimes have a sarcastic intent ( for example ,  “stubble-meister” लिये किसी साथ a छोटी , neat दाढ़ी  or “crier-meister” for someone who often cries ) .
Mighty Morphin Power Rangers is an American live-action children 's television series about teenagers with super-powers ,  आधारित on the 16th किश्त of the जापानी सुपर sentai मताधिकार , kyōryū  Sentai Zyuranger .
Both the show and its  सम्बन्धित merchandise देखी unbridled overnight  success , becoming a staple of 1990s pop culture in mere months .
Under the original name , `` Mighty Morphin Power Rangers '' the series ran from 1993  to 1995 और शाखित the विशेषता फिल्मी mighty morphin  Power Rangers : The Movie .
The second and third seasons of the show drew on footage and elements from the Super Sentai series Gosei Sentai Dairanger and  निंजा sentai kakuranger क्रमशः , हालांकि the zyuranger वेशभूषा यहूद स्टिल प्रयुक्त लिये the पाँच प्रमुख  Rangers and several regular villains .
Only the mecha and the Kiba Ranger costume ( worn by the White Ranger ) were retained from  dairanger लिये the दूसरी ऋतु , जबकि तभी the mecha इससे kakuranger यहूद प्रदर्शित  in the third season .
However the  kakuranger वेशभूषा यहूद बाद प्रयुक्त लिये the शीर्षक वर्ण  of the mini-series , Mighty Morphin Alien Rangers .
The series was produced by MMPR Productions  , वितरित by saban entertainment , और aired on फॉक्स बच्चे  .
The show 's merchandise was produced and distributed by  बंदाई entertainment  .
In 1996 , the  श्रेणी थी rebranded as the शक्ति रेंजरों मताधिकार ; renaming the श्रेणी प्रत्येक साल बाद , और  using costumes , props , and footage from subsequent Super Sentai series , as well as changing the cast and storyline .
While an overarching storyline  होता continue जबतक शक्ति रेंजरों खोया  Galaxy , subsequent series after MMPR are not sequels or spin-offs in the traditional sense .
In  2010 , a re-version of mighty morphin शक्ति रेंजरों , साथ a नई लोगो , कॉमिक book-referenced ग्राफिक्स , और अतिरिक्त वैकल्पिक  special effects , was broadcast on ABC Kids , and Bandai produced brand new toys to coincide with the series .
Edgar Allan Poe ( born Edgar Poe ; January 19 ,  1809 – अक्तूबर 7 , 1849 ) थी an अमरीकी लेखक , कवि , एडिटर और साहित्यिक आलोचक  , considered part of the American Romantic Movement .
Best known for his tales of mystery and the macabre , Poe was one of the  earliest अमरीकी practitioners of the छोटी  story and is generally considered the inventor of the detective fiction genre .
He is further credited with  contributing to the उभरते विधा  of science fiction .
He was the first well-known American writer to try to earn a living through writing alone ,  resulting in a financially मुश्किल जीवन  and career .
He was born as Edgar Poe in Boston , Massachusetts ; he was orphaned young when his mother died  shortly बाद उसके पिता abandoned the  family .
Poe was taken in by John and Frances Allan ,  of रिचमंड , वर्जिनिया  , but they never formally adopted him .
He attended the University of Virginia for  एक सेमेस्टर लकिन बाएँ due to कमी of धन  .
After enlisting in the Army and later failing as an officer 's cadet at  वेस्ट पाइंट , पो parted तरीके साथ the allans  .
His publishing career began  विनम्रतापूर्वक , साथ an बेनाम संग्रहण  of poems , Tamerlane and Other Poems ( 1827 ) , credited only to `` a Bostonian '' .
Poe switched his focus to prose and spent the next several years working for literary journals and periodicals , becoming known for  उसके अपना स्टाइल of साहित्यिक आलोचना  .
His work forced him to move among  अनेक शहरों , सहित बाल्टीमोर , फिलाडेल्फिया  , and New York City .
In  बाल्टीमोर in 1835 , he शादीशुदा  Virginia Clemm , his 13-year-old cousin .
In  जनवरी 1845 पो प्रकाशित उसके कविता  , `` The Raven `` , to instant success .
His  बीवी died of तपेदिक  two years after its publication .
he began नियोजन to उपज उसके अपना जर्नल  , The Penn ( later renamed The Stylus ) , though he died before it could be produced .
On October 7 , 1849 , at age 40 , Poe died in Baltimore ; the cause of his death is unknown and has been variously  attributed to दारू , दिमाग जमघट , हैजा , दवाएँ , दिल बीमारी , rabies  , suicide , tuberculosis , and other agents .
Poe and his works influenced literature in the United States and around the world  , as खूब as in specialized फ़ील्ड ,  such as cosmology and cryptography .
Poe and his work appear throughout  लोकप्रिय संस्कृति in साहित्य  , music , films , and television .
a क्रमांक of उसके घरों  are dedicated museums today .
The Mystery Writers of America present an  सालाना पुरस्कार ज्ञात as the एडगर पुरस्कार  for distinguished work in the mystery genre .
Lions are obligate carnivores ; they require up to  सात गामा ( 15 पाउंड ) of मांस  per day .
A major  घटक of उनके आहार is the  flesh of large mammals , like this African buffalo .
A carnivore ( ) meaning 'meat eater ' ( Latin , caro meaning 'meat ' or 'flesh ' and  vorare अर्थ 'to devour ' ) is an सजीव कि गर्भाशयी इसके उर्जा और  nutrient requirements from a diet consisting mainly or exclusively of animal tissue , whether through predation or scavenging .
Animals  कि निर्भर solely on एनिमल flesh लिये उनके  nutrient requirements are considered carnivores while those that also consume non-animal food are considered carnivores .
Omnivores also consume both animal and non-animal food , and apart from the more general definition , there is no clearly defined ratio of  संयंत्र to एनिमल सामग्री कि होता फर्क  a facultative carnivore from an omnivore .
A  carnivore कि sits at  the top of the foodchain is an apex predator .
Plants that capture and  डाइजेस्ट कीट हैं पुकारा  carnivorous plants .
Similarly , fungi that  कैप्चर microscopic पशु हैं प्रायः  called carnivorous fungi .
The FIFA World Cup , often simply the World Cup , is an  अंतरराष्ट्रीय संघ फ़ुटबॉल प्रतियोगिता लडे by the वरिष्ठ मेन 's नेशनल  teams of the members of Fédération Internationale de Football Association ( FIFA ) , the sport 's global governing body .
The championship has been awarded every four years since the inaugural tournament in 1930 , except  in 1942 और 1946 जब it थी नहीं  held because of the Second World War .
The current  champions हैं स्पेन  , who won the 2010 tournament .
The current format of the tournament involves 32 teams competing for the title at venues  भीतर the मेजबान स्वदेश ( s ) over a काल of परिचय a माह ; इस phase is प्रायः पुकारा the  World Cup Finals .
A qualification phase , which currently takes place  over the preceding तीन सालो  , is used to determine which teams qualify for the tournament together with the host nation ( s ) .
The 19 World Cup tournaments have been won by  आठ अलग नेशनल  teams .
Brazil have won five times , and they  हैं the तभी टोली to have निभाई in प्रत्येक टूर्नामेंट  .
The other World Cup winners are Italy , with four titles ; Germany , with three titles ;  अर्जेंटीना और inaugural विजेता उरुग्वे  , with two titles each ; and England , France , and Spain , with one title each .
The World  कप is the संसार 's सबसे widely viewed sporting इवेंट ;  an estimated 715.1 million people watched the final match of the 2006 FIFA World Cup held in Germany .
The next three World Cups will be hosted by Brazil in 2014 , Russia in 2018  , और क़तर in 2022  .
Heroes is an American science fiction television drama series created by Tim Kring that appeared  on एनबीसी लिये चार सीज़न इससे सितंबर 25 , 2006 through  February 8 , 2010 .
The series tells the stories of ordinary people who discover superhuman abilities  , और कैसा ये abilities लो प्रभाव in the  characters ' lives .
The series emulates the aesthetic style and storytelling of American comic books , using  multi-episode स्टोरी arcs कि निर्माण upon a larger , अधिक encompassing चाप  .
The series was produced by  tailwind प्रोडक्शन्स in संघ  with Universal Media Studios .
It was filmed primarily  in लॉस एंजिल्स , कैलिफ़ोर्निया  .
Four complete seasons  aired , समाप्ति on फ़रवरी 8  , 2010 .
The  critically acclaimed पहला ऋतु था a चलाएं of 23 एपीसोड और garnered an औसत  of 14.3 million viewers in the United States , receiving the highest rating for an NBC drama premiere in five years .
The second season of Heroes attracted an average of 13.1 million viewers in the U.S. , and marked  एनबीसी 's एकमात्र श्रेणी among the शीर्ष 20 क्रमित कार्यक्रम in कुल  viewership for the 2007–2008 season .
Heroes has earned a number of awards and  nominations , सहित प्राइमटाइम एमी पुरस्कार , सुनहरी ग्लोब्स , लोगों  's Choice Awards and British Academy Television Awards .
An online extension of the  श्रेणी  , Heroes 360 Experience , later rebranded as Heroes Evolutions , was created to explore the Heroes universe and provides insight into the show 's mythology .
Other official Heroes media include  मैगज़ीन , कार्रवाई आंकड़े , tie-in और इंटरैक्टिव वेबसाइटों , a मोबाईल खेल , a  novel , clothing and other merchandise .
In the fall of 2008 , NBC Digital Entertainment released a series of online content for the summer ,  सहित अधिक असली वेब सामग्री , बेतार आईटीवी interactivity , ग्राफिक novels उपलब्धियाँ लिये मोबाईल देखने  and webisodes .
NBC announced Heroes  रद्दीकरण on may 14 , 2010  .
Afterward , the network  माना बनाना a टेलीविज़न खास इवेंट to conclude the श्रेणी ; however , on सितंबर 9 , 2010 , एनबीसी  announced the decision to stop any further development of the Heroes franchise .
Tim  क्रिंग तब सुझाया कि the व्यापक आधार of नायक storylines  allowed for the franchise to return for fans , but he did not specify when or in what media format .
On April 17 ,  2013 , tv लकीर reported कि एमएसएन थी in बाते  to revive the series with a new cast .
John Pierpont  `` J. p  . ''
Morgan ( April 17 , 1837 – March 31 , 1913 ) was an  अमरीकी फाइनेंसर , बैंकर , लोकसेवक और आर्ट  collector who dominated corporate finance and industrial consolidation during his time .
In 1892 Morgan arranged the merger of Edison General  इलेक्ट्रिक और thomson-houston इलेक्ट्रिक कम्पनी to रूप  General Electric .
After financing the creation of the Federal Steel Company , he merged in 1901 with the Carnegie Steel Company and several other steel and iron businesses , including Consolidated Steel and  तार कम्पनी स्वामित्व by विलियम edenborn , to रूप the  United States Steel Corporation .
Morgan  died in रोम , इटली , in उसके नींद in 1913 at the आयु of 75 , leaving उसके सौभाग्य  and business to his son , John Pierpont `` Jack '' Morgan , Jr. , and bequeathing his mansion and large book collections to The Morgan Library & Museum in New York .
At the height of Morgan 's career during the early 1900s , he and his partners had financial investments in many large  corporations और यहूद अभियुक्त by आलोचकों of controlling the स्वदेश 's ऊँची वित्त  .
He directed  the बैंकिंग गठबन्धन कि  stopped the Panic of 1907 .
He was the leading financier of the Progressive Era , and his  समर्पण to दक्षता और modernization  helped transform American business .
This  is a सूची of एपीसोड  of the television series .
The episodes were directed by Shigeru Ueda  और उत्पादित by the yggdrasil कार्यपालिका कमेटी  which included Xebec and Genco .
The plot of the episodes is set in Tokyo and revolves around Rin Asōgi , an immortal  निजी अन्वेषक , as वो explores the रहस्य of आधुनिक और near-future संसार और the अलौकिक कार्यक्रम कि घेर  the fictional society of immortals like herself .
There are large time gaps in the  आतंरिक कालक्रम between the पहला पाँच एपीसोड  , ranging from one to thirty years .
The six episodes  यहूद ब्रॉडकास्ट मासिक on at-x  channel in Japan , between February 3 and July 6 , 2008 .
Each episode is 45  मिनट्स long .
Two pieces of theme music are used for the episodes : the opening theme  `` alsatia '' और the समाप्ति थीम `` कारण अस्तव्यस्तता  '' .
Both were composed  और performed by the जापानी  metal band Galneryus .
The series was produced to  commemorate the दसवाँ वर्षगांठ  of the AT-X network it originally aired on .
Aerial photo of FLETC ,  जहाँ us डिजिटल forensics मानकों  were developed in the 1980s and '90s
Digital forensics ( sometimes known as digital forensic science ) is a branch of forensic science encompassing the  रिकवरी और छानबीन of सामग्री मिला in डिजिटल डिवाइस  , often in relation to computer crime .
The term digital  forensics थी originally प्रयुक्त as a पर्याय लिये कंप्यूटर forensics  but has expanded to cover investigation of all devices capable of storing digital data .
With roots in the personal computing revolution of the late 1970s and early '80s , the  अनुशासन विकसित in a haphazard manner दौरान the 1990s , और it थी नहीं जबतक  the early 21st century that national policies emerged .
डिजिटल forensics investigations  have a variety of applications .
The most common is to support or refute a hypothesis before criminal or civil ( as part of the  इलेक्ट्रॉनिक डिस्कवरी प्रक्रम ) न्यायालयों  .
Forensics may also feature in the private sector ; such as during internal corporate investigations or  intrusion छानबीन ( a विशेषज्ञ जांच into the प्रकृति और extent of an अनधिकृत  network intrusion ) .
The technical aspect of an investigation is divided into several sub-branches , relating to the type of digital devices involved ; computer forensics , network forensics ,  forensic आंकड़ा विश्लेषण और मोबाईल यंत्र forensics  .
The typical forensic process encompasses the seizure , forensic  इमेजिंग ( अधिग्रहण ) और विश्लेषण of डिजिटल मीडिया और  the production of a report into collected evidence .
As well as identifying direct evidence of a crime , digital forensics can be used  to विशेषता प्रमाण to विशिष्ट संदिग्धों , confirm alibis  or statements , determine intent , identify sources ( for example , in copyright cases ) , or authenticate documents .
investigations हैं much broader in पैमाना than अन्य क्षेत्रों of forensic विश्लेषण ( जहाँ the usual  aim is to provide answers to a series of simpler questions ) often involving complex time-lines or hypotheses .
A comparison of the  chromaticities enclosed  by some color spaces .
A color model is an  अमूर्त गणितीय मॉडल describing the रास्ता रंगों  can be represented as tuples of numbers , typically as three or four values or color components ( e.g . RGB and CMYK are color models ) .
However , a color model with no associated mapping function to an absolute color space is a more or  कम मनमानी रंग प्रणाली साथ no कनेक्शन to कोई globally समझा प्रणाली of रंग निर्वचन  .
Adding a certain mapping function between the  रंग मॉडल और a निश्चित सन्दर्भ रंग स्पेस परिणाम in a definite  `` footprint '' within the reference color space .
This `` footprint '' is known as a gamut , and , in combination  साथ the रंग मॉडल , defines a नई रंग स्पेस  .
For example , Adobe RGB and sRGB are two different  निरपेक्ष रंग स्पेसेस , दोनो आधारित on the आरजीबी  model .
In the most generic sense of the definition above , color  स्पेसेस can be पारिभाषित बगैर the उपयोग of a रंग  model .
These spaces , such as Pantone , are in  प्रभाव a दिए नियत of names or संख्याएँ जिससे हैं  defined by the existence of a corresponding set of physical color swatches .
This  आलेख focuses on the गणितीय  model concept .
Labor Day  is an अमरीकी संघीय अवकाश observed on the पहला सोमवार in सितंबर  , that celebrates the economic and social contributions of workers .
Life insurance is a contract between an  insured ( बीमे नीति होल्डर ) और an insurer , जहाँ the insurer वादे to अदा a designated  beneficiary a sum of money ( the `` benefits '' ) upon the death of the insured person .
Depending on the contract , other events such as terminal illness or  नाजुक बीमारी may भी ट्रिगर  payment .
The policy  होल्डर typically pays a प्रीमियम  , either regularly or as a lump sum .
Other expenses ( such as funeral  खर्च ) हैं भी sometimes शामिल  in the benefits .
Life policies are legal  अनुबंध और the शर्तें of the अनुबंध describe  the limitations of the insured events .
Specific exclusions are often written into the contract to limit the liability of the insurer ; common examples are claims  relating to आत्महत्या , धोखाधड़ी , युद्ध , riot और सिविल commotion  .
life-based अनुबंध  tend to fall into two major categories:
सुरक्षा नीतियों – designed to provide  a benefit in the event of specified event , typically a lump sum payment .
A common form of this  डिज़ाइन is पद बीमे  .
Investment policies – where  the प्रमुख उद्देश्य is to सुकर the विकास of  capital by regular or single premiums .
Common forms ( in the US ) are whole life ,  सार्वभौमिक जीवन और परिवर्तनीय  life policies .
{ { infobox  Holiday
चाइनीज नई  Year
9 – 12  फ़रवरी (  Vietnam )
Mitzi  gaynor donahue ( born may 2 , 1962 in yorba लिंडा  , Orange County , California ) is an American actress , also credited and more popularly known as Mitzi Kapture .
Kapture  began उसके करियर in films  , most of which were not huge commercial successes .
She went on to make a few television  अतिथि दिखावे ( macgyver , 1st & टेन , और as a प्रतियोगी on the $ 100,000  Pyramid ) before she gained international exposure with her first major television role as Sergeant Rita Lee Lance in the television series Silk Stalkings .
Kapture 's role as Rita , the other half of the  दो `` sams '' लिये लगभग 5 सालो , cemented उसके  popularity .
Paired with Rob Estes who played Sergeant Chris Lorenzo , Kapture gained global  मान्यता साथ साथ उसके costar चूंकि the दिखाएँ थी ब्रॉडकास्ट in अनेक  countries .
Sergeant Lance eventually  became लेफ्टिनेंट तलवार by the समय kapture  left the series in 1995 to have her first child Madison .
During her time with the series , Kapture  briefly सत in the निदेशक 's कुर्सी , लिये दो एपीसोड  .
She was interviewed for the Silk Stalkings Season 1 DVD which was distributed by Anchor Bay  entertainment और  released in September 2004 .
After a  छोटी अंतराल इससे the स्क्रीन  following her exit from Silk Stalkings , Kapture returned in 1997 to the small screen and USA Network .
She played lead roles in two USA Pictures Originals telemovies , Perfect Crime ( based on a true story , also called Hide and Seek : The Joanne  जेन्सेन स्टोरी ) , जिससे भी स्ट्रक्चर चमेली  Guy and His Bodyguard .
She later starred in a few other  स्वतंत्र फिल्मी प्रोजेक्ट और थिएटर  productions and had several television guest appearances .
kapture भी था a पुनरावर्ती  role on Baywatch as Alexis Ryker .
She played Anita Hodges on The Young and the Restless from 2002 through 2004 , where she was  credited as mitzi kapture donahue , और स्ट्रक्चर in the made-for-tv फिल्म रात्रि of आतंक जिससे  premiered March 26 , 2006 on Lifetime Network .
Her latest is a supporting role in God 's Ears ,  released in  2007 .
Kapture is the official celebrity  प्रवक्ता लिये the xeroderma pigmentosum  Society .
The Xbox 360 is the  दूसरी वीडियो खेल कंसोल विकसित  by and produced for Microsoft and the successor to the Xbox .
The Xbox 360 competes with Sony 's PlayStation 3 and Nintendo 's Wii as  भाग of the सातवाँ पीढी of वीडियो  game consoles .
As of September 30 , 2012 , 70  लाख एक्सबॉक्स 360 consoles have महरूम बेची विश्वव्यापी  .
The Xbox 360 was officially unveiled on MTV on May 12 , 2005 , with detailed launch and game  सूचना divulged बाद कि माह at the इलेक्ट्रॉनिक entertainment  Expo ( E3 ) .
The  कंसोल बेची आउट completely  upon release in all regions except in Japan .
Several major features of the Xbox 360 are its integrated Xbox Live service that allows players to compete online ; download arcade games , game demos , trailers , TV  shows , म्यूज़िक और फिल्मों ; और इसके खिड़कियाँ मीडिया बीच मल्टीमीडिया सामर्थ्य  .
The Xbox Live also offers access to various ( often region-specific ) third-party  मीडिया स्ट्रीमिंग अनुप्रयोग  .
At their E3  प्रस्तुतीकरण on जून 14 , 2010 , microsoft घोषित a  redesigned Xbox 360 that would ship on the same day .
The redesigned console is slimmer than the previous Xbox 360 model and features integrated  802.11 b/g/n wi-fi , toslink s/pdif ऑप्टिकल ऑडियो आउटपुट , पाँच usb 2.0 पोर्ट ( compared to  the three from older versions ) and a special AUX port .
Older models of the Xbox  360 have चूंकि महरूम  discontinued .
The first new console to be released features a 250 GB  मुश्किल ड्राइव , जबकि a बाद , कम महंगी  SKU features 4 GB internal storage .
Backpack  may भी refer to a 2001  novel by Emily Barr
a आधुनिक  backpack
स्विस फौज backpack  ca . 1960
एकीकृत तुमको  frame .
A backpack ( also called rucksack , knapsack , packsack , pack ) is , in its simplest form , a cloth sack carried on one 's back and  secured साथ दो straps कि go over the कन्धों , लकिन वहीँ can  be exceptions .
Lightweight types of  backpacks हैं sometimes worn  on only one shoulder strap .
Backpacks are often preferred to handbags for carrying heavy loads or  carrying कोई sort of उपकरण , क्युकी of the सीमित  capacity to carry heavy weights for long periods of time in the hands .
Large backpacks , used to carry loads over 10 kg  ( 22 पाउंड ) , प्रायः offload the largest भाग ( up to  about 90 % ) of their weight onto padded hip belts , leaving the shoulder straps mainly for stabilising the load .
This improves the potential to carry heavy loads , as the hips  हैं stronger than the कन्धों , और  also increases agility and balance , since the load rides nearer the wearer 's own center of mass .
In ancient times , the backpack was used as a means to carry the hunter 's  larger खेल और अन्य प्रकार of शिकार और as a रास्ता  of easier transport for other materials .
In the cases of larger hunts , the hunters would dismember their prey and distribute the pieces of the animal around , each one packing the meat into many  wrappings और तब into बैग  which they placed on to their backs .
The bag itself was made up of different animal hide  और स्किन ( depending on कया sorts of पशु यहूद in the क्षेत्रफल ) और sewn साथ by  the intestines of said animals , which were woven together tightly to make a sturdy thread-like material .
Mexico ( ; ; ) , officially the United Mexican States (  ) , is a संघीय संवैधानिक गणतंत्र  in North America .
It is bordered on the north by the United States ; on the south and west by the Pacific  समंदर ; on the southeast by ग्वाटेमाला , बेलीज़ , और the caribbean समुद्र ; और on the ईस्ट  by the Gulf of Mexico .
Covering almost two million square kilometres ( over 760,000 sq mi ) , Mexico is  the पांचवां largest देश in the americas by कुल क्षेत्रफल और the 13th largest स्वतंत्र  nation in the world .
With an estimated population of over 113 million , it is the world 's eleventh most  populous देश और the सबसे populous spanish-speaking  country .
Mexico is a federation comprising thirty-one states and  a संघीय ज़िला , the  capital city .
In pre-Columbian Mexico many  संस्कृतियों matured into उन्नत सभ्यताओं ऐसे as the olmec , the toltec ,  the Teotihuacan , the Zapotec , the Maya and the Aztec before first contact with Europeans .
In 1521 , Spain conquered and colonized the territory from its base in  méxico-tenochtitlan , जिससे थी administered as the viceroyalty  of New Spain .
This  territory होता आखिरकार become  Mexico following recognition of the colony 's independence in 1821 .
The post-independence period was characterized by economic instability , the Mexican-American War and territorial  cession to the संयुक्त राज्य , a सिविल युद्ध  , two empires and a domestic dictatorship .
The latter led to the Mexican Revolution in 1910 , which culminated with the  promulgation of the 1917 संविधान और the emergence of the देश 's वर्तमान  political system .
Elections held in July 2000 marked the first  समय कि an विपक्ष पार्टी जीती the प्रेसिडेंसी इससे the संस्थागत  Revolutionary Party .
Since 2006 the country has  महरूम in the midst of a ड्रग युद्ध जिससे रै caused  60,000 deaths .
Mexico has  एक of the संसार 's largest economies  , and is considered both a regional power and middle power .
In addition , Mexico was the first Latin American member of  the संगठन लिये आर्थिक co-operation और  Development OECD ( since 1994 ) , and considered an upper-middle income country by the World Bank .
Mexico is  माना a newly industrialized  country and an emerging power .
It has the fourteenth largest nominal GDP and  the eleventh largest जीडीपी by खरीदना शक्ति  parity .
The economy is  strongly linked to those of इसके उत्तर अमरीकी फ़्री व्यापार अनुबंध  ( NAFTA ) partners , especially the United States of America .
Mexico ranks sixth in the world and first in the  americas by क्रमांक of युनेस्को संसार विरासत साइट साथ 31 ,  and in 2007 was the tenth most visited country in the world with 21.4 million international arrivals per year .
Babe Ruth  holds the एमएलबी करियर  slugging percentage record ( .690 ) .
In baseball statistics , slugging percentage (  abbreviated slg ) is a लोकप्रिय माप of  the power of a hitter .
It is calculated as  कुल bases विभाजित  by at bats :
where AB is the  क्रमांक of at-bats लिये a दिए खिलाड़ी , और  1B , 2B , 3B , and HR are the number of singles , doubles , triples , and home runs , respectively .
Walks are specifically  excluded इससे इस गणना  .
For example , in 1920 , Babe  रुथ निभाई उसके पहला ऋतु लिये  the New York Yankees .
In 458 at bats , Ruth had 172 hits , comprising 73 singles , 36  युगल , 9 तिगुना , और 54 घर रनों , जिससे  brings the total base count to ( 73 × 1 ) + ( 36 × 2 ) + ( 9 × 3 ) + ( 54 × 4 ) = 388 .
His total number  of bases ( 388 ) विभाजित by उसके कुल at-bats  ( 458 ) is .847 , his slugging percentage for the season .
The next year he slugged .846 , and these records went unbroken until 2001 , when Barry Bonds achieved 411 bases in 476  at-bats , bringing उसके slugging प्रतिशत to .863  , unmatched since .
is a role-playing video game developed and published by Square ( now Square  एनिक्स ) लिये the सुपर  Nintendo Entertainment System in 1995 .
Chrono Trigger 's development team included three designers that Square dubbed the `` Dream Team '' : Hironobu Sakaguchi , the creator of Square 's Final  काल्पनिक श्रेणी ; yuji horii , a freelance पंक्तियां और  creator of Enix 's popular Dragon Quest series ; and Akira Toriyama , a freelance manga artist famed for his work with Dragon Quest and Dragon Ball .
Kazuhiko Aoki produced the game , Masato Kato wrote most of the plot , while composer Yasunori Mitsuda scored  सबसे of the खेल पहले गिरना बीमार और deferring बाकी ट्रैक्स to फाइनल काल्पनिक composer  Nobuo Uematsu .
The game 's story  फ़ॉलो a समूह of adventurers जो सफर through समय to prevent  a global catastrophe .
Square re-released  a ported संस्करण by tose in जापानी लिये  Sony 's PlayStation in 1999 , later repackaged with a Final Fantasy IV port as Final Fantasy Chronicles in 2001 for the North American market .
A slightly enhanced  chrono ट्रिगर थी released लिये the निन्टेंडो ds on नवम्बर 25 , 2008 , in उत्तर अमेरिका  and Japan , and went on sale in Australia on February 3 , 2009 and in Europe on February 6 , 2009 .
The game was never released in PAL  territories पहले the निन्टेंडो ds संस्करण  .
Chrono Trigger was a critical and commercial  कामयाबी upon रिलीज और is माना आज  to be one of the greatest video games of all time .
Nintendo Power magazine described aspects of Chrono  ट्रिगर as क्रांतिकारी , सहित इसके अनेक endings , plot-related sidequests  focusing on character development , unique battle system , and detailed graphics .
Chrono Trigger was the third best-selling game of 1995 , and the game 's SNES and  प्लेस्टेशन iterations have shipped 2.65 लाख नक़ल as of कूच 2003  .
The version for the  निन्टेंडो ds बेची  790,000 copies as of March 2009 .
Chrono Trigger was also ported to mobile phones  , आभासी कंसोल , the प्लेस्टेशन संजाल ( तभी in the यूएसए ) , आईओएस डिवाइस  , and Android devices .
बकरी  cheese
Goat cheese , or chèvre ( from the French word for goat  ) , is चीज बना आउट of the  milk of goats .
Hyperthermia is elevated body  तापमान due to विफल thermoregulation कि occurs जब a देह produces  or absorbs more heat than it dissipates .
Extreme temperature elevation then  becomes a चिकित्सा आपात requiring तात्कालिक  treatment to prevent disability or death .
The most common causes include  ऊष्मा स्ट्रोक और प्रतिकूल  reactions to drugs .
The former is an acute temperature elevation caused by exposure to excessive heat , or combination of heat  और आर्द्रता , कि overwhelms the heat-regulating mechanisms  .
The latter is a relatively rare side effect of  अनेक दवाएँ , विशेषकर those कि affect the  central nervous system .
Malignant hyperthermia is a rare complication of some  प्रकार of सामान्य एनेस्थीसिया .
Hyperthermia can also be deliberately induced using drugs or medical devices and may be used in the treatment of some  kinds of कर्कट और अन्य शर्तें , सबसे commonly in संयोजन  with radiotherapy .
अतिताप differs इससे ज्वर in कि the  body 's temperature set point remains unchanged .
The opposite is hypothermia , which occurs when the temperature  बूंदें नीचे कि जरूरी to maintain सामान्य चयापचय  .
Belize , is a  देश स्तिथ on the northeastern  coast of Central America .
It is the only country in the area where English is the official language , although  kriol और स्पेनी हैं अधिक commonly बोला  .
Belize  is bordered on the उत्तर by मैक्सिको  , to the south and west by Guatemala and to the east by the Caribbean Sea .
Its  मेनलैंड is परिचय  long and wide .
With  of जमीन और a जनसांख्यिकी of तभी 312,698 निवासियों  ( 2010 census ) , Belize possesses the lowest population density in Central America .
The country 's population growth rate of 3.15 % ( 2012 est . ) is the second highest in the region and  एक of the उच्चतम in the पश्चिमी गोलार्ध  .
Belize 's abundance  of स्थलीय और समुद्री प्रजाति , और इसके विविधता  of ecosystems give it a key place within the globally significant Mesoamerican Biological Corridor .
Belize  रै a विविध समाज , comprising  many cultures and languages .
It is the only nation in the region with a British colonial heritage , but as a part of the Western  caribbean मण्डल , it भी साझा a आम विरासत साथ the fellow anglophone caribbean  countries .
In general , Belize is  माना to be a सेंट्रल अमरीकी और caribbean  nation with strong ties to both the Caribbean and Latin America .
Belize is a member of the  caribbean जातियाँ ( caricom ) , the जातियाँ of  Latin American and Caribbean States ( CELAC ) , and Central American Integration System ( SICA ) .
Belize is known for its September  जश्न , और is the जन्मस्थान  of chewing gum and Punta Rock .
The `` Betsy  रॉस  '' flag
A ``  बेट्सी रॉस '' ध्वज उड़ती  outside San Francisco City Hall
The Betsy Ross flag is an early design of the flag of the United States , popularly  attributed to बेट्सी रॉस , using the आम motifs of प्रत्यावर्ती red-and-white  striped field with five-pointed stars in a blue canton .
The flag was designed during  the अमरीकी क्रान्ति और सुविधाएँ 13  stars to represent the original 13 colonies .
The  distinctive विशेषता of the रॉस ध्वज  is the arrangement of the stars in a circle .
Although  the बेट्सी रॉस स्टोरी is स्वीकृत by सबसे अमेरिकी  , some flag historians and revisionists do not accept the Betsy Ross design as the first American flag .
According to the traditional account , the original flag  थी बना in जून 1776 , जब a छोटी committee—including जार्ज वॉशिंगटन  , Robert Morris and relative George Ross —visited Betsy and discussed the need for a new American flag .
Betsy accepted the job to manufacture the flag  , altering the कमेटी 's डिज़ाइन by replacing  the six-pointed stars with five-pointed stars .
While the Betsy Ross legend is questionable , the flag design is  ज्ञात to have महरूम in उपयोग by 1777 ; अल्फ्रेड b  . Street described it at the surrender of General Burgoyne and understood the circle of stars to represent equality among the American states .
It is one of the oldest versions of U.S. flags known to exist ; while it is not the oldest surviving flag artifact in cloth form , its likeness appears on older physical relics , namely , the  समकालीन रणभूमि paintings by जॉन trumbull और  Charles Willson Peale .
They depict the circular star  व्यवस्था होने flown इससे जलयान masts और  many other places , and thus provide the first known historical documentation of the flag 's appearance .
The seal of the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs uses the  बेट्सी रॉस ध्वज to represent सेवा to सब दिग्गजों इससे the अमरीकी  Revolution to the present day .
The Betsy Ross design of 13-star US flags has  महरूम प्रदर्शित in अनेक लोकप्रिय artworks ( sometimes inaccurately , as in वॉशिंगटन क्रासिंग the डेलावेयर  ) and films , such as the 1960 version of Pollyanna .
The  ध्वज continues to be एक  of the most popular symbols of the American Revolution .
A purr is a sound made by all species of felids and is a  भाग of बिल्ली संचार .
It  varies between बिल्लियों ( लिये उदाहरण by loudness  and tone ) , and from species to species , but can be characterized as a tonal buzzing .
The term `` purring '' has been used liberally in literature , and it has been claimed that viverrids ( civet ,  नेवला , genet ) , bears , badgers  , hyaenas ( et cetera ) purr .
Other animals that have been said  to purr हैं खरगोश , squirrels  , guinea pigs , tapirs , ring-tailed lemurs , elephants , raccoons and gorillas while eating .
however , using a सख्त परिभाषा of purring कि निरन्तर ध्वनि उत्पादन जरूर वैकल्पिक between pulmonic egressive और ingressive airstream ( और प्रायः go on लिये मिनट्स ) , पीटर्स ( 2002 )  , in an exhaustive review of the scientific literature , reached the conclusion that until then only ‘purring cats’ ( Felidae ) and two species of genets , Genetta tigrina , and most likely also Genetta genetta , had been documented to purr .
The platypus ( Ornithorhynchus anatinus ) is a semiaquatic  स्तनधारी endemic to पूर्वी ऑस्ट्रेलिया , सहित  Tasmania .
Together with the four species of echidna  , it is एक of the पाँच extant प्रजाति of  monotremes , the only mammals that lay eggs instead of giving birth .
It is the sole living representative of its family ( Ornithorhynchidae ) and genus ( Ornithorhynchus ) ,  हालांकि a क्रमांक of सम्बन्धित प्रजाति have महरूम मिला in  the fossil record .
The unusual appearance of this egg-laying , duck -billed , beaver -tailed , otter -footed mammal baffled European naturalists when they first encountered  it , साथ कुछ considering it an विस्तृत  fraud .
It is one of the few venomous mammals , the male platypus  having a spur on the हिन्द पैर कि delivers a venom सक्षम of causing  severe pain to humans .
The unique features of the platypus make it an important subject in the study of evolutionary biology and a recognisable  और iconic प्रतीक of ऑस्ट्रेलिया ; it रै appeared as a शुभंकर at नेशनल  events and is featured on the reverse of its 20-cent coin .
The  platypus is the एनिमल  emblem of the state of New South Wales .
Until  the जल्दी 20th सदी , it थी hunted लिये इसके फर  , but it is now protected throughout its range .
Although captive  प्रजनन programmes have था तभी सीमित कामयाबी और the  platypus is vulnerable to the effects of pollution , it is not under any immediate threat .
St.  एलिज़ाबेथ is a गाँव  in Miller County , Missouri , United States .
the जनसांख्यिकी थी 336 at  the 2010 census .
Wilton is a census-designated  प्लेस ( cdp ) in sacramento  County , California , United States .
It is part of the Sacramento  – arden-arcade – roseville  Metropolitan Statistical Area .
The  जनसांख्यिकी थी 5,363 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी , up  from 4,551 at the 2000 census .
In human-computer interaction ,  काटें और paste और नक़ल और paste हैं सम्बन्धित कमांड कि प्रस्ताव a user-interface बातचीत तकनीक लिये  transferring text , data , files or objects from a source to a destination .
Most ubiquitously , users require the ability  to काटें और paste भाग of मैदान  text .
The cut command removes the selected data from its original position , while the copy  कमांड creates a नकल ; in दोनो मामले the चयनित आंकड़ा is लगाई  in a clipboard .
The data in the clipboard is later  inserted in the स्थिति जहाँ the paste  command is issued .
The command names are an interface  रूपक आधारित on the शारीरिक कार्यविधि  used in manuscript editing to create a page layout .
This interaction technique has close associations with related techniques in  आलेखीय उपयोक्ता अंतरफलक कि उपयोग इंगित डिवाइस ऐसे as a कंप्यूटर चूहा  ( by drag and drop , for example ) .
Economic order quantity is the order quantity that minimizes total  inventory पकड़कर लागत और ordering लागत  .
It is one of the  oldest शास्त्रीय  production scheduling models .
The  फ्रेमवर्क प्रयुक्त to determine इस अनुक्रम मात्रा is  also known as Barabas EOQ Model or Barabas Formula .
The model was developed by Ford W. Harris in 1913 , but R. H. Wilson , a consultant who applied it  extensively , is दिए क्रेडिट लिये उसके in-depth  analysis .
स्टीफन `` स्टीवी '' रे vaughan ( अक्तूबर 3 , 1954 – अगस्त  27 , 1990 ) was an American guitarist , singer-songwriter , and record producer .
Often referred to by his initials SRV ,  vaughan is बेहतरीन ज्ञात as a founding सदस्य  and leader of Double Trouble .
साथ साथ वादक क्रिस layton  and bassist Tommy Shannon , they ignited the blues revival of the 1980s .
With a career spanning seven years  , vaughan और दोगुना ट्रबल  consistently sold out concerts while their albums frequently went gold .
He was born and raised in Dallas , Texas  , और लिये a छोटी काल of समय जिया  in Graham , Texas .
As the younger brother of Jimmie Vaughan  , vaughan प्रारंभ playing the गिटार  at age seven and formed several bands that occasionally performed in local nightclubs .
At age 17 , he dropped out of high  स्कूल और स्थानांतरित to ऑस्टिन to further pursue उसके  musical career , joining groups such as Krackerjack , the Nightcrawlers , and the Cobras .
In 1977 , he formed Triple Threat Revue  , a बैंड कि आखिरकार विकसित into दोगुना ट्रबल  and regularly performed around Austin .
In 1982 , Vaughan and Double Trouble performed at the Montreux Jazz Festival in Switzerland , catching the  ध्यान of संगीतकारों दाउद बोवी और  Jackson Browne .
Bowie asked Vaughan to play on his upcoming studio album Let 's Dance , while Browne offered the band  फ़्री उपयोग of उसके निजी स्टुडियो in लॉस एंजिल्स to रिकार्ड an एल्बम  .
In March 1983 , Vaughan and Double Trouble were signed to Epic Records by veteran record producer John  हैमंड sr. और released उनके डेब्यू एल्बम , टेक्सास  Flood in June of that year .
After successful  touring , the समूह released the एल्बम , could n't स्टैंड the मौसम  ( 1984 ) and Soul to Soul ( 1985 ) , the latter of which featured new keyboardist Reese Wynans .
Although his career had  progressed सफलतापूर्वक , vaughan checked into a पुनर्वास  hospital in Atlanta , Georgia to give up a cocaine and alcohol habit and returned to touring with the band .
In June 1989 , In Step was released and earned them a  ग्रैमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन समकालीन  Blues Performance .
On August 27 ,  1990 , vaughan थी मारे in a हेलीकाप्टर  crash following a performance in East Troy , Wisconsin .
Vaughan 's uniquely eclectic  yet तीव्र स्टाइल थी निकला इससे a किस्में  of musical genres .
He was  बहकावे by ब्लूज़ संगीतकारों सहित अल्बर्ट किंग , फ्रेडी किंग , ओटिस फटाफट  , and Muddy Waters , and rock guitarists such as Jimi Hendrix and Lonnie Mack .
His guitar playing reflected  the क्लासिक ब्लूज़ और pentatonic तराजू  .
He has received wide  नाजुक मान्यता लिये उसके गिटार playing , रैंकिंग  at # 6 on Rolling Stones list of `` 100 Greatest Guitarists '' in 2011 .
He  थी मरणोपरांत inducted into the ब्लूज़ हॉल  of Fame in 2000 and a memorial statue was erected in Austin 's Auditorium Shores park .
Stevie Ray Vaughan is  widely माना to be एक of the महानतम संगीतकारों  to come from the state of Texas .
The Las Vegas Strip  संसार of coca-cola संग्रहालय  in 2003
Coca-Cola is a carbonated soft drink sold in stores , restaurants  , और वेंडिंग मशीने in  every country except Cuba and North Korea .
It is produced by The Coca-Cola Company of Atlanta , Georgia  , और is प्रायः referred to बस as कोक ( a पंजीकृत ट्रेडमार्क of the coca-cola  Company in the United States since March 27 , 1944 ) .
Originally intended as a patent medicine when it was invented in the late 19th century by John Pemberton , Coca-Cola was bought out by businessman Asa Griggs Candler  , जिनकी विपणन tactics led कोक to इसके दबदबा of the संसार soft-drink मार्केट throughout  the 20th century .
The company produces concentrate , which is then  बेची to licensed coca-cola bottlers  throughout the world .
The bottlers , who hold territorially exclusive contracts  साथ the कम्पनी , उपज समाप्त उत्पाद in डिब्बे और बोतलों इससे  the concentrate in combination with filtered water and sweeteners .
The bottlers then  बेचें , वितरित और merchandise coca-cola  to retail stores and vending machines .
Such bottlers include Coca-Cola Enterprises , which is the  largest सिंगल coca-cola bottler in उत्तर अमेरिका और  western Europe .
The Coca-Cola Company also sells concentrate for soda fountains  to प्रमुख रेस्तरां और खाना  service distributors .
The Coca-Cola Company has , on occasion ,  introduced अन्य कोला पेय  under the Coke brand name .
The most  आम of ये is आहार कोक , साथ अन्य सहित caffeine-free  Coca-Cola , Diet Coke Caffeine-Free , Coca-Cola Cherry , Coca-Cola Zero , Coca-Cola Vanilla , and special versions with lemon , lime or coffee .
Based on  interbrand 's बेहतरीन वैश्विक ब्रांड 2011  , Coca-Cola was the world 's most valuable brand .
Barry Louis Larkin ( born  अप्रैल 28 , 1964 )  is a retired Major League Baseball player .
Larkin played  shortstop लिये the सिनसिनाटी लाल इससे 1986 to  2004 and was one of the pivotal players on the 1990 Reds ' World Series championship team .
Larkin was elected to the National Baseball Hall  of कीर्ति in जनवरी 2012 और थी  inducted on July 22 .
Larkin is considered one of the  शीर्ष खिलाड़ी of उसके era , जीतना  nine Silver Slugger awards and three Gold Glove awards .
He was selected to the Major League  all-star खेल बारह टाइम्स , और थी निर्वाचित the  1995 National League Most Valuable Player .
Brasília ( ) is the federal capital of Brazil and the seat of government of  the संघीय ज़िला  .
administratively , the नगर  is located in the Federal District which is in the Central-West Region .
Physically , it is located in the  ब्राज़ीलियाई हाइलैंड्स .
It has a  जनसांख्यिकी of परिचय 2,562,963 ( 3,716,996 in the महानगर  area ) as of the 2008 IBGE estimate , making it the fourth largest city in Brazil .
However , as a  महानगर क्षेत्रफल , it  ranks lower at sixth in population .
Brasília is the largest city in  the संसार कि किया  not exist at the beginning of the 20th century .
Brasília has the fifth largest GDP among Latin  अमरीकी शहरों  and the third in Brazil .
At around R $ 62,000 Brazilian reais ( equal to approximately $ 30,900 US dollars or €23,000 euros ) , the city  's प्रति capita आय is the उच्चतम among  Brazil 's largest cities .
As the national capital ,  brasília is the सीट of सब तीन शाखाओं of the  federal government of Brazil .
The city also hosts the  मुख्यालय of अनेक ब्राज़ीलियाई  companies .
Planning policies such as the  स्थान of आवासीय इमारतें around expansive शहरी क्षेत्रों , as खूब as भवन the नगर around विशाल avenues  and dividing it into sectors , have sparked a debate and reflection on life in big cities in the 20th century .
The city 's design divides it into numbered blocks as well  as सेक्टर लिये निर्दिष्ट क्रियाएँ , ऐसे  as the Hotel Sector , the Banking Sector or the Embassy Sector .
Brasília hosts 124 foreign  embassies  .
The city was planned and developed in 1956 with Lúcio  कोस्टा as the प्रिंसिपल शहरी प्लानर , ऑस्कर niemeyer as the प्रिंसिपल वास्तु  and Roberto Burle Marx as the landscape designer .
Brasilia is in the Unesco 's World  hertitage सूची due to इसके वास्तुकला  .
On April 22  , 1960 , it formally became ब्राज़ील  's national capital .
Viewed from above , the main  portion of the नगर resembles  an airplane or a butterfly .
The city is commonly referred to as  पूंजी संघीय , or  simply BSB .
Residents of Brasília are known as brasilienses or candangos ( the latter referring  to those नहीं born in the नगर लकिन जो migrated  there after it was established ) .
In local usage , the word `` Brasília '' usually refers only to the  पहला प्रशासनिक प्रदेश ( ra i ) भीतर the संघीय ज़िला ( distrito संघीय  ) , where the most important government buildings are located .
Brasília has a unique status in  ब्राज़ील , as it is an प्रशासनिक  division rather than a legal municipality like nearly all cities in Brazil .
Nationally ,  the पद is लगभग सदा प्रयुक्त synonymously साथ the  Federal District , which constitutes an indivisible Federative Unit , analogous to a state .
Several `` satellite cities '' exist which are also  भाग of the संघीय ज़िला  .
brasília अंतरराष्ट्रीय विमानक्षेत्र is the प्रमुख विमानक्षेत्र in brasília ,  connecting the capital to all major Brazilian cities and many international destinations .
It is the third  सबसे महत्वपूर्ण  airport in Brazil , in terms of passengers and aircraft movements .
Personifications  of जर्मनी , फ़्रांस , रूस , austria-hungary , और the संयुक्त  Kingdom attempting to keep the lid on the simmering cauldron of imperialist and nationalist tensions in the Balkans to prevent a general European war .
They were successful in 1912 and  1913 लकिन किया नहीं सफल in  in 1914 .
The causes of World War I , which began in  सेंट्रल यूरोपीय in लेट जुलाई 1914 और समाप्त in 1918  , included many factors , such as the conflicts and hostility of the four decades leading up to the war .
Militarism , alliances , imperialism , and nationalism played  प्रमुख भूमिकाएँ in the विरोध  as well .
The immediate origins of the war , however , lay in the decisions taken by statesmen  और सेनापतियों दौरान the संकट of 1914 , casus belli लिये जिससे थी the  assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand ( the Archduke of Austria Hungary ) and his wife Sophie by Gavrilo Princip , an irredentist Serb .
The crisis came after a long and  मुश्किल श्रेणी of राजनयिक clashes between the ग्रेट शक्तियां ( इटली , फ़्रांस , जर्मनी , the अंग्रेजों साम्राज्य  , the Austria-Hungarian Empire and Russia ) over European and colonial issues in the decade before 1914 that had left tensions high .
In turn  ये राजनयिक clashes can be traced  to changes in the balance of power in Europe since 1867 .
The more immediate cause for the war was tensions  over territory in  the Balkans .
austria-hungary competed साथ सर्बिया और रूस लिये territory और influence  in the region and they pulled the rest of the Great Powers into the conflict through their various alliances and treaties .
Although the  कड़ी of कार्यक्रम unleashed by the  assassination triggered the war , the war 's origins go deeper , involving national politics , cultures , economics , and a complex web of alliances and counterbalances that had developed between the various European powers since 1870 .
Some of the most important long term or structural causes are  : the विकास of राष्ट्रवाद आरपार यूरोपीय , अनसुलझे territorial विवादों , an intricate प्रणाली of alliances , the आभास विश्लेषण of the संतुलन of शक्ति  in Europe , convoluted and fragmented governance , the arms races of the previous decades , previous military planning , imperial and colonial rivalry for wealth , power and prestige , and economic and military rivalry in industry and trade – e.g. , the Pig War between Austria and Serbia .
Other causes that came into play during the diplomatic crisis that  preceded the युद्ध शामिल misperceptions of intent ( e.g. , the जर्मनी विश्वास कि the संयुक्त  Kingdom would remain neutral ) and delays and misunderstandings in diplomatic communications .
The various categories of  स्पष्टीकरण लिये संसार युद्ध i correspond to अलग  historians ' overall methods .
Most historians and popular commentators  शामिल कल्याणकारी इससे अधिक than एक श्रेणी of स्पष्टीकरण to provide  a rounded account of the causes of the war .
The deepest distinction among these accounts is between stories that see it as the  अपरिहार्य और predictable निष्कर्ष of निश्चित कारकों , और those कि describe it as an  arbitrary and unfortunate mistake .
In attributing causes for the war ,  इतिहासकारों और लड  had to deal with an unprecedented flood of memoirs and official documents , released as each country involved tried to avoid blame for starting the war .
Early releases of information by governments , particularly those released for use  by the `` आयोग on the जिम्मेदारी of the लेखक of the युद्ध '' यहूद  shown to be incomplete and biased .
In addition some documents , especially diplomatic cables  between रूस और फ़्रांस , यहूद मिला to  have been doctored .
Even in later decades however , when much more information had been  released , इतिहासकारों इससे the वही संस्कृति  have been shown to come to differing conclusions on the causes of the war .
Johnson  's नई चार्ट of नेशनल  emblems , published c. 1868 .
The large flags shown in the corners are the 37-star flag of the United States ( flown 1867-1877 ) , the Royal Standard of the United Kingdom , the Russian  इम्पीरियल मानक , और the फ्रेंच tricolore साथ इनसेट इम्पीरियल  Eagle .
Various  अन्य ध्वज flown  by ships are shown .
the ध्वज of क्यूबा  is labelled `` Cuban ( so called ) `` .
The Chinese dragon on  the ध्वज of चीन थी drawn mistakenly  as a western dragon .
A national  ध्वज is a ध्वज कि symbolizes  a country .
The flag  is flown by the सरकारी , लकिन प्रायः can  also be flown by citizens of the country .
Both public and private buildings such as schools and  courthouses may मक्खी the नेशनल  flag .
In  कुछ देशों , the नेशनल ध्वज हैं  only flown from non-military buildings on certain flag days .
There are three distinct  प्रकार of नेशनल ध्वज लिये उपयोग on जमीन , और  three for use at sea , though many countries use identical designs for several ( and sometimes all ) of these types of flag .
The American Civil  युद्ध ( acw ) , भी ज्ञात as the युद्ध between the राज्य or बस the सिविल युद्ध ( देखिए नामकरण ) , थी a सिविल युद्ध लड़ा इससे 1861 to 1865 between the संयुक्त राज्य ( the ``  Union '' or the `` North '' ) and several Southern slave states that declared their secession and formed the Confederate States of America ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ) .
The war had its origin in  the समस्या of गुलामी , विशेषकर  the extension of slavery into the western territories .
Foreign powers  किया नहीं intervene  .
After four years of bloody combat that left over 600,000 soldiers dead and destroyed much of the South 's infrastructure , the Confederacy collapsed  , गुलामी थी abolished , और the मुश्किल पुनर्निर्माण प्रक्रम of restoring नेशनल एकता और guaranteeing अधिकारों to the freed  slaves began .
In the 1860 presidential election , Republicans ,  led by अब्राहम lincoln , opposed expanding गुलामी  into United States ' territories .
Lincoln won , but before his inauguration on March 4 , 1861 , seven  cotton-based स्लेव राज्य formed the confederacy  .
Outgoing Democratic President James Buchanan and the incoming  republicans अस्वीकृत  secession as illegal .
Lincoln 's inaugural address declared his administration would not  initiate सिविल  war .
Eight remaining slave  राज्य जारी to अस्वीकृत  calls for secession .
confederate शक्तियां जब्त numerous  federal forts within territory claimed by the Confederacy .
A Peace Conference  विफल to ढूँढें a सुलह , और दोनो  sides prepared for war .
The  confederates assumed कि यूरोपीय देशों  were so dependent on `` King Cotton `` that they would intervene ; none did and none recognized the new Confederate States of America .
Hostilities began  on अप्रैल 12 , 1861 , जब  Confederate forces fired upon Fort Sumter , a key fort held by Union troops in South Carolina .
Lincoln called for each state to provide troops to retake the fort ; consequently , four  अधिक स्लेव राज्य joined the confederacy , bringing उनके कुल to ग्यारह  .
The Union soon  नियंत्रित the किनारा राज्य और  established a naval blockade that crippled the southern economy .
The Eastern  थिएटर थी inconclusive  in 1861–62 .
The autumn 1862 Confederate campaign into Maryland ( a Union  राज्य ) ended साथ confederate रिट्रीट at the बैटल of antietam , dissuading  British intervention .
lincoln जारी the emancipation  Proclamation , which made ending slavery a war goal .
To the west , by summer 1862 the Union destroyed the Confederate river navy , then much of their western armies  , और the संघ at vicksburg विभाजित the confederacy in दो at  the Mississippi River .
In  1863 , रॉबर्ट  E. Lee 's Confederate incursion north ended at the Battle of Gettysburg .
पश्चिमी सफलताओं led to ulysses  S. Grant command of all Union armies in 1864 .
In the Western Theater , William T. Sherman drove east to capture Atlanta  और marched to the समुद्र , destroying confederate  infrastructure along the way .
The Union marshaled the resources and manpower to attack the Confederacy from  सब दिशानिर्देश , और could afford to लड़ो लड़ाइयों of अपघर्षण  through the Overland Campaign towards Richmond , the Confederate capital .
The defending Confederate army failed , leading to Lee 's  आत्मसमर्पण to ग्रान्ट at appomattox अदालत हाउस on अप्रैल 9  , 1865 .
The  अमरीकी सिविल युद्ध थी एक of the  earliest true industrial wars .
Railroads , the  टेलीग्राफ , steamships , और mass-produced  weapons were employed extensively .
The mobilization of civilian factories , mines , shipyards , banks , transportation and  खाना आपूर्तियाँ सब foreshadowed संसार युद्ध  I .
It remains the deadliest war in American history , resulting in the deaths of an estimated 750,000 soldiers and  an undetermined क्रमांक  of civilian casualties .
Historian John Huddleston estimates the death toll at ten  प्रतिशत of सब उत्तरी males 20–45 सालो बूढ़ा , और 30  percent of all Southern white males aged 18–40 .
Norrie disease is a genetic  विकार कि primarily  affects the eye and almost always leads to blindness .
In addition to the congenital ocular symptoms , some patients suffer from a progressive hearing loss starting mostly in  उनके 2nd दशक of जीवन , जबकि another portion may be मानसिक  challenged .
Patients with Norrie disease may develop cataracts , leukocoria ( a condition where the pupils appear white when light is  shone on उन्हें ) , साथ साथ अन्य developmental मुद्दे in the नजर , ऐसे as shrinking  of the globe and the wasting away of the iris .
Around 30–50 %  of उन्हें होगा भी have developmental डेलाy/ दिमागी  retardation , psychotic-like features , incoordination of movements or behavioral abnormalities .
Most patients are born with  सामान्य सुनना ; however , the onset of सुनना घाटा is  very common in early adolescence .
About 15 % of the patients are estimated to  develop सब the सुविधाएँ of the बीमारी  .
The disease affects almost only male infants at birth or soon  बाद जनम , क्युकी the बीमारी is inherited x-linked  recessive .
Only in very rare cases , females have been  diagnosed साथ norrie बीमारी as खूब  .
The exact incidence number is unknown ;  तभी a few सौ मामले have महरूम reported  so far .
It is a very rare disorder that is  नहीं संबद्ध  with any specific ethnic or racial groups .
A contract is an agreement having a lawful object entered into voluntarily by two or more parties , each of whom intends to create one or  अधिक विधिक दायित्वों between उन्हें  .
The  तत्व of a अनुबंध हैं `` प्रस्ताव  '' and `` acceptance '' by `` competent persons '' having legal capacity who exchange `` consideration '' to create `` mutuality of obligation . ''
Proof of some or all of these elements may be done in  लिखने , हालांकि अनुबंध may be बना entirely orally or by conduct  .
The remedy for breach of contract can be `` damages '' in  the रूप of मुआवजे  of money or specific performance enforced through an injunction .
Both of these remedies award the party at loss  the `` लाभ of the सौदेबाजी '' or अपेक्षा  damages , which are greater than mere reliance damages , as in promissory estoppel .
The parties may  be प्राकृतिक व्यक्तियों  or juristic persons .
A contract is a legally enforceable promise  or undertaking कि कुछ होगा  or will not occur .
The word promise can be used as a legal synonym for contract , although care is required as a promise may not  have the पूरा खड़ा of a अनुबंध , as जब it is an अनुबंध बगैर विचार  .
Contract law varies  greatly इससे एक क्षेत्राधिकार to another , सहित मतभेद in आम विधि compared to सिविल  law , the impact of received law , particularly from England in common law countries , and of law codified in regional legislation .
Regarding Australian Contract Law for example , there are 40 relevant acts which impact  on the निर्वचन of अनुबंध at the राष्ट्रमंडल ( संघीय / नेशनल  ) level , and an additional 26 acts at the level of the state of NSW .
In addition there are 6 international  यंत्र or प्रथाओं जिससे हैं लागू लिये अंतरराष्ट्रीय  dealings , such as the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods .
ASP.NET is a server-side Web  अनुप्रयोग फ्रेमवर्क designed लिये वेब विकास to  produce dynamic Web pages .
It was developed by Microsoft to allow  प्रोग्रामर्स to निर्माण डायनेमिक वेब साइट , वेब अनुप्रयोग  and web services .
It was first released in January 2002 with  संस्करण 1.0 of the .neT फ्रेमवर्क  , and is the successor to Microsoft 's Active Server Pages ( ASP ) technology .
ASP.NET is built on the Common Language Runtime (  clr ) , allowing प्रोग्रामर्स to लिखें asp.net कोड  using any supported .NET language .
The ASP.NET SOAP  एक्सटेंशन फ्रेमवर्क allows asp.net  components to process SOAP messages .
Lysergic acid diethylamide , abbreviated LSD or LSD-25 , also known as lysergide ( INN ) and colloquially as acid , is a semisynthetic psychedelic drug of the ergoline  परिवार , खूब ज्ञात लिये इसके मनोवैज्ञानिक प्रभाव जिससे can शामिल altered सोच प्रक्रियाओं , बंद और खोलें नजर visuals , synesthesia , an altered भाव of समय और आध्यात्मिक अनुभवों  , as well as for its key role in 1960s counterculture .
It is used  मुख्यतः as an entheogen , recreational ड्रग , और  as an agent in psychedelic therapy .
LSD is non-addictive , is not known  to कारण दिमाग क्षति , और रै अत्यधिक  low toxicity relative to dose .
however , प्रतिकूल मनोरोग प्रतिक्रियाएँ  such as anxiety , paranoia , and delusions are possible .
LSD was first synthesized by Albert Hofmann in 1938 from  ergotamine , a रासायनिक निकला by आर्थर stoll इससे ergot , a  grain fungus that typically grows on rye .
the छोटी रूप `` एलएसडी '' आता इससे इसके जल्दी कोड नाम lsd-25 , जिससे  is an abbreviation for the German `` Lysergsäure-diethylamid '' followed by a sequential number .
LSD is sensitive to oxygen , ultraviolet light , and chlorine , especially in solution , though its potency  may पिछला लिये सालो if it is भंडारित दूर इससे लाइट और नमी at कम  temperature .
In pure form it is a  colorless , गंधहीन , tasteless  solid .
LSD is typically delivered orally , usually on a  substrate ऐसे as absorbent blotter पेपर  , a sugar cube , or gelatin .
In its liquid form ,  it can भी be administered by intramuscular  or intravenous injection .
LSD is very potent , with  20–30 μg (  micrograms ) being the threshold dose .
New experiments with LSD  प्रारंभ in 2009 लिये  the first time in 40 years .
Introduced by Sandoz Laboratories , with  trade-name delysid , as a ड्रग साथ विभिन्न मनोरोग उपयोग in 1947 , एलएसडी जल्दी became a therapeutic  agent that appeared to show great promise .
In the 1950s , officials at the  u.S. सेंट्रल प्रज्ञा एजेंसी ( सीआईए ) विचार the ड्रग might be लागू  to mind control and chemical warfare ; the agency 's MKULTRA research program propagated the drug among young servicemen and students .
The  subsequent recreational उपयोग of the  drug by youth culture in the Western world during the 1960s led to a political firestorm that resulted in its prohibition .
Currently , a number of organizations—including the Beckley Foundation , MAPS , Heffter Research Institute and the Albert Hofmann  foundation—exist to निधि , प्रोत्साहित और निर्देशांक शोध into the औषधीय और  spiritual uses of LSD and related psychedelics .
The United States Navy 's Sea , Air , Land Teams , commonly known  as the नेवी seals , हैं the u.S. नेवी 's प्रिंसिपल खास परिचालन फ़ोर्स और a भाग of the नवल  Special Warfare Command and United States Special Operations Command .
`` मुहर '' is सदा  capitalized in reference to members of the Naval Special Warfare community .
The acronym is derived from  उनके क्षमता to operate at समुद्र  , in the air , and on land .
SEALs are  पुरूष सदस्यों of the संयुक्त  States Navy .
An exchange program  साथ the coast गार्ड  , which graduated three Coast Guardsmen as SEALs , was suspended in 2011 .
The CIA 's highly secretive Special Activities Division ( SAD ) and  अधिक specifically इसके elite खास परिचालन  Group ( SOG ) recruits operators from the SEAL Teams .
Joint Navy SEALs and CIA operations go  वापस to the famed macv-sog दौरान the  Vietnam War .
This cooperation still exists today and is seen in the wars in Iraq  और अफगानिस्तान , और in the ढूंढना और हत्या of  Osama bin Laden in Pakistan .
World population estimates from 1800 to 2100 , based on UN 2010 projections  ( रेड , नारंगी , ग्रीन ) और us जनसांख्यिकी ब्यूरो ऐतिहासिक estimates ( ब्लैक  ) .
Actual  अंकित जनसांख्यिकी  figures are in blue .
According to the highest  अनुमान , the संसार जनसांख्यिकी may वृद्धि to 16 अरब  by 2100 ; according to the lowest estimate , it may decline to 6 billion .
The world population is the total number of living  इंसानो on धरती  .
As of today , it is estimated  to क्रमांक अरब by the संयुक्त  States Census Bureau ( USCB ) .
The USCB  estimates कि the संसार जनसांख्यिकी exceeded  7 billion on March 12 , 2012 .
according to a पृथक अनुमान by the संयुक्त राष्ट्र जनसांख्यिकी निधि  , it reached this milestone on October 31 , 2011 .
The world population has experienced continuous growth since the end of the Great Famine and the  ब्लैक मौत in 1350 , जब it stood at around 370 लाख .
The highest rates of growth – global population increases above 1.8 % per year – were seen briefly  दौरान the 1950s , और लिये a longer काल दौरान  the 1960s and 1970s .
The growth rate peaked at 2.2 % in  1963 , और था अस्वीकृत to 1.1 % by 2011  .
Total annual births were highest in the late 1980s at about 138 million , and are now expected to remain essentially constant at  उनके 2011 स्तर of 134 लाख , जबकि मौतों क्रमांक 56 लाख प्रति साल , और हैं अपेक्षित  to increase to 80 million per year by 2040 .
Current projections show a  जारी बढ़ाएँ in जनसांख्यिकी in the निकट भविष्य ( लकिन a स्थिर मनाही in the जनसांख्यिकी विकास रेट ) ,  with the global population expected to reach between 7.5 and 10.5 billion by 2050 .
Various  longer-term estimates भविष्यवाणी further विकास , stagnation  , or even overall decline in the global population by 2150 .
Some analysts have questioned the sustainability of further world population growth , citing the growing  pressures on the पर्यावरण , वैश्विक खाना आपूर्तियाँ , और  energy resources .
Memphis is a city in the  southwestern कोने of the u.S. राज्य of टेनेसी  , and the county seat of Shelby County .
The city is located on the 4th Chickasaw Bluff , south  of the संगम of the भेड़िया  and Mississippi rivers .
Memphis had a population of 672,277 in 2011 making it the largest city in the state of Tennessee , the largest city on the  मिसिसिपी नदी , the तीसरा largest in the southeastern संयुक्त राज्य  , and the 20th largest in the United States .
The greater Memphis  महानगर क्षेत्रफल , सहित सटा काउंटी in मिसिसिपी  and Arkansas , had a 2010 population of 1,316,100 .
This makes Memphis the second largest metropolitan area in Tennessee , surpassed only by  महानगर नैशविले , जिससे रै overtaken मेम्फिस  in recent years .
मेम्फिस is the  youngest of Tennessee 's major cities .
A resident of Memphis is  referred to as a memphian , और the मेम्फिस  region is known , particularly to media outlets , as `` Memphis & The Mid-South `` .
The Cattenom Nuclear  शक्ति संयंत्र in फ़्रांस  .
France produces around three quarters of its electricity by nuclear  शक्ति  .
The Grafenrheinfeld Nuclear Power Plant  in जर्मनी  .
Chancellor Angela Merkel 's coalition announced on May 30 , 2011 , that Germany’s 17 nuclear power  स्टेशन होगा be shut bas  by 2022 , in a policy reversal following Japan 's Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster .
Currently , 68 reactors  हैं अंतर्गत निर्माण in 15 देशों  .
Nuclear power  स्टेशन operate  in thirty countries .
In 2010 , before the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster , it was reported  कि an औसत of परिचय 10 नाभिकीय रिएक्टरों यहूद अपेक्षित to become operational प्रति साल , हालांकि according to the संसार  Nuclear Association , of the 17 civilian reactors planned to become operational between 2007 and 2009 , only five actually came on stream .
As of June  2011 , जर्मनी और स्विट्ज़रलैंड  are phasing-out nuclear power .
As of June 2011 , countries such as Australia , Austria , Denmark ,  यूनानियों , आयरलैंड , इटली , लातवियाई , liechtenstein , ध्वज , मलेशिया , माल्टा , नई  Zealand , Norway and Portugal remain opposed to nuclear power .
Skeletal  मांसपेशियां होमो sapiens
This is a table of muscles  of the इंसान anatomy  .
There are approximately 642 skeletal muscles within the typical human , and almost every muscle constitutes one part of a pair of identical bilateral muscles , found on both sides ,  resulting in लगभग 320 pairs  of muscles , as presented in this article .
Nevertheless , the exact  क्रमांक is मुश्किल to define क्युकी अलग स्त्रोत समूह मांसपेशियां differently , e.g . regarding कया  is defined as different parts of a single muscle or as several muscles .
उदाहरण दायरा इससे  640 to 850 .
The muscles of the human body can be categorized  into a क्रमांक of समूह जिससे शामिल मांसपेशियां relating to the सिर और  neck , muscles of the torso or trunk , muscles of the upper limbs , and muscles of the lower limbs .
The action  refers to the कार्रवाई of  each muscle from the standard anatomical position .
In other positions , other  क्रियाएँ may be performed  .
A reenactment of a battle at  फोर्ट फोस्टर , 1837 ( at hillsborough नदी  State Park )
The Seminole Wars , also known as the Florida Wars , were three conflicts in Florida between the Seminole — the collective name given to the amalgamation of various groups of  देशी अमेरिकी और ब्लैक लोगों जो settled in फ्लोरिडा in the जल्दी 18th सदी  — and the United States Army .
The First Seminole War was from 1814 to 1819 ( although sources differ ) , the Second Seminole  युद्ध इससे 1835 to 1842 , और the तीसरा seminole युद्ध इससे 1855  to 1858 .
The first conflict  साथ the seminoles arose आउट of तनाव relating to सामान्य  Andrew Jackson 's attack and destruction of Negro Fort in Florida in 1816 .
जैक्सन भी attacked the स्पेनी  at Pensacola .
Ultimately , the Spanish  क्राउन ceded the  colony to United States rule .
Orono is a town in Penobscot County , Maine ,  संयुक्त राज्य  .
It was first settled in 1774 and named in honor  of मुख्य जोसेफ orono of the penobscot स्वदेश  .
It is home to The  विश्वविद्यालयों  of Maine .
the जनसांख्यिकी  was 10,362 at the 2010 census .
View of  the  pyramid
Luxor Las Vegas is a hotel and casino on the Las Vegas  स्ट्रिप in स्वर्ग  , Nevada .
The  30-story होटल , स्वामित्व और संचालित by  MGM Resorts International , has a casino with over 2,000 slot machines and 87 table games .
In the 2008 to 2009 renovation , it has a new , highly modernized , and contemporary design and contains a total of 4,400 rooms , including 442 suites , lining the interior walls of a pyramid  स्टाइल मीनार और भीतर जुड़वा 22-story ziggurat मीनारें कि यहूद  built as later additions .
The hotel is named after the city of Luxor ( ancient  thebes ) in मिश्र  .
Luxor is the  दूसरी largest होटल in लास वेगास ( the largest  being the MGM Grand ) and the eighth largest in the world .
As of 2010 , the Luxor has a 4  कुंजी दरजा इससे  the Green Key Eco-Rating Program , which evaluates `` sustainable '' hotel operations .
A pilot experiment , also called a pilot study , is a small scale preliminary study conducted in order to evaluate  feasibility , समय , लागत , प्रतिकूल कार्यक्रम , और प्रभाव आकार ( सांख्यिकीय variability ) in an attempt to भविष्यवाणी an उचित  sample size and improve upon the study design prior to performance of a full-scale research project .
Pilot studies , therefore , may  नहीं be उचित  for case studies .
The Los  एंजिल्स आग विभाग ( lafd ) is the एजेंसी कि provides आग  protection and emergency medical services for the city of Los Angeles .
It may be unofficially referred to as the Los Angeles City  आग विभाग to फर्क  it from the Los Angeles County Fire Department .
The acre is a unit of  क्षेत्रफल प्रयुक्त in the इम्पीरियल  and U.S. customary systems .
An acre is about 40 % of a  हेक्टेयर – थोड़ा  smaller than an American football field .
The acre is no longer commonly used ,  हालांकि a few notable अपवाद शामिल the संयुक्त राज्य  , Australia , Burma and the United Kingdom ( as of 2010 , the acre is no longer officially used in the United Kingdom , though is still used in real estate descriptions ) .
It is still  प्रयुक्त , to कुछ extent  , in Canada .
The international symbol of the acre is  ac , और is पारिभाषित as 1/640  of a square mile .
The most  commonly प्रयुक्त  acre today is the international acre .
In the United States both the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय एकड़ और the थोड़ा अलग us सर्वेक्षण  acre are in use .
The most  आम उपयोग of the एकड़  is to measure tracts of land .
One international acre is  पारिभाषित as 4046.8564224  square metres .
During the Middle Ages , an acre was the amount of land that could be plowed in one  दिन साथ a  yoke of oxen .
Pawnee  initially refers to a देशी  American people and its language:
pawnee  people
Pawnee  भाषा
pawnee is भी the  name of several places in the United States:
pawnee  , Illinois
Pawnee ,  कान्सास
pawnee नगर , नेब्रास्का
pawnee  , Oklahoma
Pawnee  , टेक्सास
pawnee नेशनल  Grassland , Colorado
Pawnee  township ( बहुविकल्पी  )
pawnee काउंटी  ( disambiguation )
Pawnee  may भी refer  to:
Piper PA-25 Pawnee  , agricultural  aircraft
Hiller VZ-1  pawnee , प्रायोगिक  aircraft
Pawnee , Indiana ( fictional city ) the fictional  सेटिंग of the एनबीसी टेलीविज़न कॉमेडी पार्क  and Recreation .
Broca 's and  wernicke 's क्षेत्रों
Language processing refers to the way human beings use words to communicate  विचार और जज्बात , और कैसा ऐसे संचार  are processed and understood .
यूँ it is  how the brain creates and understands language .
Most recent  theories consider कि इस प्रक्रम is  carried out entirely by and inside the brain .
This is  माना एक of the सबसे characteristic abilities  of the human species - perhaps the most characteristic .
however बहुत छोटी is ज्ञात परिचय it और वहीँ  is huge scope for research on it .
Most of the knowledge acquired to date on the subject has come from patients who have suffered some type of significant head injury , whether external ( wounds , bullets )  or आतंरिक ( स्ट्रोक्स , tumors , अपक्षयी रोगों )  .
Studies have shown that most of the language processing  कृत्यों हैं carried आउट in the दिमागी  cortex .
The essential function of the cortical  भाषा क्षेत्रों is सांकेतिक प्रतिनिधित्व .
Even though language exists in different forms , all of them are based  on सांकेतिक प्रतिनिधित्व  .
The Bugatti Veyron EB 16.4 is a mid-engined grand  touring car , designed और विकसित by the volkswagen समूह और  manufactured in Molsheim , France by Bugatti Automobiles S.A.S .
The Super Sport version of the Veyron is the fastest  street-legal उत्पादन car in the संसार , साथ a शीर्ष गति  of .
The  असली संस्करण  has a top speed of .
It was named Car of the Decade ( 2000–2009 ) by the BBC  टेलीविज़न कार्यक्रम शीर्ष  Gear .
The standard Veyron won Top Gears Best  car चलित सब साल पुरस्कार in 2005  .
On 6 April 2013 ,  bugatti नियत the रिकार्ड लिये the तीव्रतम roadster in the संसार साथ the veyron  Grand Sport Vitesse , reaching on average a top speed of .
The Veyron 's chief designer was Hartmut Warkuss , and the exterior was designed by Jozef Kabaň of Volkswagen  , साथ much of the अभियान्त्रिकी कार्य होने conducted  under the guidance of engineering chief Wolfgang Schreiber .
A  क्रमांक of खास  variants have been produced .
In December 2010 , Bugatti began  offering prospective खरीदार the क्षमता to मनपसंद exterior और इंटीरियर्स रंग by using the  Veyron 16.4 Configurator application on the marque 's official website .
DVD is an optical  डिस्क भंडार स्वरूप , invented और  developed by Philips , Sony , Toshiba , and Panasonic in 1995 .
DVDs offer higher storage  क्षमता than कॉम्पैक्ट discs जबकि  having the same dimensions .
Pre-recorded DVDs are mass-produced using molding  मशीने कि physically स्टैम्प आंकड़ा onto  the DVD .
Such discs are known as  dvD- rom , क्युकी आंकड़ा can तभी be  read and not written nor erased .
Blank  recordable dvd discs ( dvd-r और dvd+r ) can be अंकित एकबार using a dvd रिकॉर्डर और तब  function as a DVD-ROM . Rewritable DVDs ( DVD-RW , DVD+RW , and DVD-RAM ) can be recorded and erased multiple times .
DVDs are used in DVD-Video consumer digital video format and  in dvd-audio उपभोक्ता डिजिटल ऑडियो स्वरूप  , as well as for authoring AVCHD discs .
DVDs containing other types of information may  be referred to as dvd आंकड़ा discs  .
What Chilli Wants is an American reality series on VH1 starring Chilli ,  one-third of the ग्रैमी पुरस्कार -winning r & b  trio TLC .
The show chronicles Chilli 's quest to find love with the help of  tionna T. smalls , an लेखक और  relationship coach .
The series premiered on April  11 , 2010 , और रै चूंकि महरूम  renewed for a second season .
The second season  premiered on संडे , जनवरी  2 , 2011 .
पीटर जीन hernandez ( born अक्तूबर 8 , 1985 ) , ज्ञात  by his stage name Bruno Mars , is an American singer-songwriter and record producer .
Raised in  होनोलूलू , हवाई , by a परिवार of संगीतकारों , मंगल began बनाना  music at a young age and performed in various musical venues in his hometown throughout his childhood .
He  ग्रैजुएट इससे ऊँची स्कूल और तब  moved to Los Angeles , California , to pursue a musical career .
Mars produced songs for  अन्य कलाकारों , joining उत्पादन टोली  The Smeezingtons .
Mars had an unsuccessful stint  साथ motown रिकॉर्ड , लकिन  then signed with Atlantic in 2009 .
He became recognized as a  सोलो  artist after lending his vocals and co-writing the hooks for the songs `` Nothin ' on You `` by B.o.B , and `` Billionaire `` by Travie McCoy .
He also co-wrote the hits ``  सही गोलाकार `` by flo rida featuring  Ke $ ha , and `` Wavin ' Flag `` by K'naan .
In October 2010 , he released his  डेब्यू एल्बम , doo-wops  & Hooligans .
Anchored by the worldwide  number-one singles `` बस the रास्ता तुम हैं `` और `` ग्रेनेड  `` , the album peaked at number three on the Billboard 200 .
Mars was nominated for  सात grammys at the 53rd ग्रैमी पुरस्कार , जीतना बेहतरीन  Male Pop Vocal Performance for `` Just the Way You Are '' .
His second studio  एल्बम , अपरंपरागत  Jukebox , was released on December 11 , 2012 .
Mars ' music is noted for  displaying a चौड़ी किस्में of शैलियाँ  and influences , and contains elements of many musical genres .
He has  worked साथ an assortment  of artists from various genres .
As a child , he was highly influenced by artists such as Little Richard , Elvis Presley and Michael  जैक्सन और होता प्रायः impersonate ये  artists from a young age .
Mars also incorporates reggae - and  motown -inspired ध्वनि into उसके कार्य  .
विश्वव्यापी , मंगल became the  best-selling digital artist in 2011 .
He had three singles in the top ten , including first place with ``  बस the रास्ता तुम हैं '' , जिससे बेची 12.5  million copies .
Mars won Best International  पुरूष सोलो कलाकार at the 2012 ब्रिट पुरस्कार  .
Bruno  मंगल रै बेची 6 लाख एल्बम और  40 million singles worldwide as a singer .
althought as a song-writer , निर्माता और सिंगर उसके कुल  single download sales surpass 100 million worldwide .
Bust of Zeus ,  otricoli ( sala रोटोंडा  , Museo Pio-Clementino , Vatican ) .
Greek mythology is the body of myths and teachings that belong to the ancient Greeks , concerning their gods and heroes , the nature of the world ,  और the origins और significance of उनके अपना cult और अनुष्ठान  practices .
It was a part of the religion in ancient Greece and is part of religion in  आधुनिक यूनानियों और around the संसार , ज्ञात as hellenismos  .
Modern scholars refer to  और पढ़ाई the मिथकों in an attempt to throw लाइट on the धार्मिक और राजनैतिक  institutions of Ancient Greece and its civilization , and to gain understanding of the nature of myth-making itself .
Greek mythology is explicitly embodied in a large collection of narratives , and implicitly in Greek representational arts ,  ऐसे as vase-paintings और votive  gifts .
Greek myth attempts to explain the origins of the world , and details the lives and adventures of a wide variety of gods ,  देवियाँ , नायक , heroines , और पौराणिक जीव  .
ये खाते initially यहूद disseminated in an  oral-poetic tradition ; today the Greek myths are known primarily from Greek literature .
The oldest known Greek  साहित्यिक स्त्रोत , होमर 's एपिक कविताएं इलियड  and Odyssey , focus on events surrounding the Trojan War .
Two poems by Homer 's near contemporary Hesiod , the Theogony and  the works और दिनों , contain खाते of the उत्पत्ति of the संसार , the उत्तराधिकार of दैवी शासकों , the उत्तराधिकार  of human ages , the origin of human woes , and the origin of sacrificial practices .
Myths are also preserved in the Homeric Hymns , in fragments of epic poems of the Epic  साईकिल , in lyric कविताएं , in the works of the tragedians of the पांचवां सदी bc , in कृतियाँ of विद्वानों  and poets of the Hellenistic Age , and in texts from the time of the Roman Empire by writers such as Plutarch and Pausanias .
Archaeological  निष्कर्षों provide a प्रिंसिपल सोर्स of विवरण परिचय यूनानी  mythology , with gods and heroes featured prominently in the decoration of many artifacts .
Geometric designs on pottery of the eighth century BC depict  दृश्यों इससे the trojan  cycle as well as the adventures of Heracles .
In the  succeeding  Archaic , Classical , and Hellenistic periods , Homeric and various other mythological scenes appear , supplementing the existing literary evidence .
Greek mythology has had an extensive influence on the culture , arts , and  साहित्य of पश्चिमी सभ्यता और remains  part of Western heritage and language .
Poets and artists from ancient times to the present have derived inspiration from Greek mythology and  have खोजा समकालीन significance और प्रासंगिकता  in the themes .
Mouth  & macneal  in 1971
Mouth &  macneal थी a पॉप duo इससे  the Netherlands .
They are best known for  उनके लाख selling  recording of `` How Do You Do `` .
The Boise State Broncos football program represents Boise State University in  कॉलेज फ़ुटबॉल और compete in the फ़ुटबॉल कटोरी subdivision ( fbs  ) of Division I as a member of the Mountain West Conference .
They are currently led by head coach Chris  petersen और खेल उनके घर खेल at bronco  Stadium .
The franc ( sign : Fr . or SFr . ; German : Franken , French and Romansh : franc , Italian : franco ; code : CHF ) is the currency and legal tender of Switzerland and  liechtenstein ; it is भी विधिक टेंडर in the इतालवी exclave campione  d'Italia .
Although  नहीं formally विधिक टेंडर in the जर्मनी exclave büsingen ( the एकमात्र विधिक  currency is the euro ) , it is in wide daily use there .
The  स्विस नेशनल बैंको मुद्दे  banknotes and the federal mint Swissmint issues coins .
The Swiss franc  is the तभी संस्करण of the फ़्रैंक  still issued in Europe .
The smaller denomination , a hundredth of a franc , is a Rappen ( Rp . ) in German , centime  ( c. ) in फ्रेंच , centesimo ( ct. ) in इतालवी , और रैप  ( rp . ) in Romansh .
The ISO code of the currency used by banks and financial  संस्थानों is chf , हालांकि `` fr . '' is प्रयुक्त by सबसे व्यवसायों और विज्ञापनदाता ; कुछ उपयोग  SFr . ; the Latinate `` CH '' stands for Confoederatio Helvetica .
Given the different languages used in Switzerland , Latin is used for  language-neutral  inscriptions on the coins .
Sir Charles Spencer `` Charlie '' Chaplin , ( 16 April  188925 दिसम्बर 1977 ) थी a अंग्रेजों कॉमिक  actor and filmmaker who rose to fame in the silent era .
चैपलिन became a विश्वव्यापी प्रतीक through उसके स्क्रीन persona `` the  Tramp `` and is considered one of the most important figures of the film industry .
His career spanned more than 75 years , from a  चाइल्ड in the विक्टोरियन era to बंद to उसके मौत at the आयु of 88 , और encompassed दोनो  adulation and controversy .
Raised in London , Chaplin 's childhood was defined by  गरीबी और hardship .
He was sent to a workhouse twice before the age of nine ; his father was absent ,  और उसके माँ थी वचनबद्ध to a दिमागी asylum  .
Chaplin began performing from a  यंग आयु , touring म्यूज़िक हॉल और बाद working  as a stage actor and comedian .
at 19 he थी हस्ताक्षरित to the prestigious  Fred Karno company , which took him to America .
Chaplin was scouted by the  फिल्मी उद्योग , और बना उसके पहला दिखावे  in 1914 with Keystone Studios .
He soon developed the Tramp persona and formed a  विशाल प्रशंसक आधार  .
Chaplin  निर्देशित उसके films इससे an जल्दी  stage , and continued to hone his craft as he moved to the Essanay , Mutual , and First National corporations .
By 1918 , he was one  of the सबसे प्रसिद्ध मेन in the  world .
In  1919 , चैपलिन co-founded the वितरण कम्पनी संयुक्त कलाकारों , giving  him complete control over his films .
His first feature-length picture was The Kid ( 1921 ) , followed by A Woman of Paris (  1923 ) , the सुनहरा फटाफट ( 1925 ) , और the सर्कस ( 1928 )  .
He refused  to मूव to ध्वनि films in the  1930s , instead producing City Lights ( 1931 ) and Modern Times ( 1936 ) without dialogue .
Chaplin became increasingly  राजनैतिक और उसके अगला फिल्मी ,  The Great Dictator ( 1940 ) , satirised Adolf Hitler .
the 1940s थी a दशक चिह्नित  with controversy for Chaplin , and his popularity declined rapidly .
He was accused of  कम्युनिस्ट sympathies , जबकि उसके भागीदारी in a paternity  suit and marriages to much younger women were considered scandalous .
An FBI  छानबीन थी खोली on चैपलिन , और he थी आखिरकार  forced to leave the United States and settle in Switzerland .
He abandoned the Tramp for his later films , which include Monsieur Verdoux ( 1947 ) , Limelight ( 1952 ) , A King in New York  ( 1957 ) , और a countess इससे हांग  Kong ( 1967 ) .
Chaplin wrote , directed , produced ,  संपादित , scored , और स्ट्रक्चर in सबसे  of his films .
He  थी a perfectionist , और उसके वित्तीय स्वतंत्रता  meant he often spent years on the development and production of a picture .
उसके films हैं characterised by slapstick संयुक्त  with pathos , and often feature the Tramp struggling against adversity .
Many contain social  और राजनैतिक विषयवस्तु , as खूब  as autobiographical elements .
In 1972 , as part of a renewed appreciation for his work , Chaplin received an Honorary  अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये `` the incalculable प्रभाव he रै था in बनाना  motion pictures the art form of this century '' .
He continues to be held in high regard , with The Gold Rush , City Lights , Modern Times , and The Great  तानाशाह प्रायः क्रमित among the महानतम  films of all time .
Planned Parenthood Federation of America ( PPFA ) , commonly shortened to  नियोजित parenthood , is the u.S. संबद्ध of the अंतरराष्ट्रीय नियोजित parenthood संघ  ( IPPF ) and one of its larger members .
PPFA is a non-profit organization providing  reproductive स्वास्थ्य और मातृ और चाइल्ड  health services .
The Planned Parenthood Action Fund , Inc. ( PPAF ) is a related organization which lobbies for pro-choice legislation ,  व्यापक sex शिक्षा , और अभिगम to सस्ती स्वास्थ्य परवाह  in the United States .
Planned Parenthood is the largest U.S. provider of reproductive health services , including cancer  स्क्रीनिंग , hiv स्क्रीनिंग और counseling , निरोधक  , and abortion .
Contraception accounts for 35 % of  ppfa 's कुल सेवाएं और abortions खाता लिये  3 % ; PPFA conducts roughly 300,000 abortions each year , among 3 million people served .
The organization has its  जड़ें in ब्रुकलीन , नई यॉर्क , जहाँ  Margaret Sanger opened the country 's first birth-control clinic .
Sanger founded the American Birth Control League in 1921 , which in 1942 became  भाग of the नियोजित parenthood संघ of अमेरिका  .
Since then , Planned Parenthood has grown to have over 820 clinic locations in  the u.S. , साथ a कुल बजट of us $  1 billion .
PPFA provides an array of services to over three million  लोगों in the संयुक्त राज्य , और supports  services for over one million clients outside the United States .
Mens rea is  लैटिन लिये ``  guilty mind '' .
In  दण्ड विधि  , it is viewed as one of the necessary elements of some crimes .
The standard  आम विधि परीक्षण of दण्ड  liability is usually expressed in the Latin phrase , actus non facit reum nisi mens sit rea , which means `` the act is not culpable unless the mind is guilty '' .
Thus , in  jurisdictions साथ due प्रक्रम , वहीँ जरूर be an actus reus , or `` अपराधी अधिनियम , '' accompanied  by some level of mens rea to constitute the crime with which the defendant is charged ( see the technical requirement of concurrence ) .
As a general rule , criminal liability does not attach to a person  जो acted साथ the अनुपस्थिति  of mental fault .
The exception  is सख्त देयता  crimes .
In civil law , it is usually not necessary  to prove a subjective दिमागी तत्व to स्थापित  liability for breach of contract or tort , for example .
However , if a tort is intentionally committed or a contract is intentionally breached , such  intent may बढ़ाएँ the पैमाना of देयता as  well as the measure of damages payable to the plaintiff .
Therefore , mens rea refers to the mental  तत्व of the अपराध कि accompanies the actus  reus .
In some jurisdictions  , the शर्तें पुरुषों rea और actus reus have महरूम replaced  by alternative terminology .
In Australia , for example , the elements of the federal offences are now designated as `` fault  तत्व '' or `` दिमागी तत्व '' ( पुरुषों rea ) और `` शारीरिक तत्व ''  or `` external elements '' ( actus reus ) .
This terminology was adopted to replace the obscurity of the Latin terms  साथ सरल और सटीक  phrasing .
Ulysses S. Grant ( born Hiram Ulysses Grant ; April 27 , 1822 – July 23 , 1885 ) was the 18th President of the United  राज्य ( 1869–1877 ) following उसके अत्यधिक कामयाब भूमिका as a युद्ध सामान्य in the दूसरी  half of the Civil War .
Under Grant , the Union Army defeated the Confederate military ; having effectively ended the war and  secession साथ the आत्मसमर्पण of रॉबर्ट E. ली 's फौज at appomattox  .
as अध्यक्ष he led the कट्टरपंथी  Republicans in their effort to eliminate all vestiges of Confederate nationalism and slavery .
Upset over uncontrolled  हिंसा in the दक्षिण और having desired to protect अफ़्रीकी अमरीकी  citizenship , President Grant effectively destroyed the Ku Klux Klan in 1871 .
Grant was the first President to establish  सिविल सेवा सुधार having निर्मित a two-year  federally funded Civil Service Commission in 1871 .
In terms of foreign policy , Grant revealed an `` unexpected capacity for deliberation  और परामर्श '' कि प्रचारित the नेशनल ब्याज  .
His reputation was marred by his repeated defense of  भ्रष्ट appointees , और by अमेरिका  's first industrial age economic depression ( called the `` Panic of 1873 `` ) that dominated his second term .
Although his  रिपब्लिकन पार्टी विभाजित in  1872 with reformers denouncing him , Grant was easily reelected .
By 1875 the conservative white Southern opposition regained control of every state in  the दक्षिण और as he बाएँ the श्वेत हाउस in कूच  1877 his policies were being undone .
A career soldier , he graduated from the United  राज्य सैन्य अकादमी  at West Point and served in the Mexican–American War .
When the Civil War began in 1861 ,  ग्रान्ट प्रशिक्षित संघ स्वयंसेवी regiments  in Illinois .
In 1862 , as a general he fought  a श्रेणी of लड़ाइयों और थी प्रचारित to प्रमुख सामान्य बाद  forcing the surrender of a large Confederate army and gaining control of Kentucky and most of Tennessee .
He then led Union forces to victory after  आरंभिक setbacks in the बैटल of shiloh  , earning a reputation as an aggressive commander .
In July 1863 , after a long , complex campaign , Grant  पराजित पाँच uncoordinated confederate सेना ( capturing एक of उन्हें )  and seized Vicksburg .
This famous victory gave the Union full control of the  मिसिसिपी नदी , विभाजित बंद the पश्चिमी  Confederacy , and opened the way for more Union triumphs .
After another win at the Battle of Chattanooga in late 1863 , President Abraham Lincoln made him  लेफ्टिनेंट सामान्य और कमांडर of सब of the संघ  Armies .
As commanding general of the army , Grant confronted Robert E. Lee in a series of very bloody battles in 1864 known as the  overland अभियान कि ended साथ the bottling up of ली at पीटर्सबर्ग , बाहर the confederate  capital of Richmond .
During the siege , Grant coordinated a series of devastating campaigns launched by William  tecumseh शरमन , फिलिप sheridan  , and George Thomas .
आखिरकार तोड़कर through ली  's trenches , the Union Army captured Richmond in April 1865 .
Lee surrendered his depleted forces  to ग्रान्ट at appomattox as the confederacy  collapsed .
Although pro-Confederate historians  attacked ग्रान्ट as a निष्ठुर कसाई  who won by brute force , most historians have hailed his military genius .
Grant 's two consecutive terms as President  stabilized the स्वदेश बाद the अमरीकी सिविल युद्ध और दौरान the turbulent  Reconstruction period that followed .
As president , he  enforced पुनर्निर्माण by enforcing  civil rights laws and fighting Ku Klux Klan violence .
Grant won passage of the Fifteenth Amendment ;  giving संवैधानिक सुरक्षा लिये  African-American voting rights .
He used the army to build the Republican Party in the South , based on black voters , Northern  newcomers ( `` carpetbaggers `` ) और देशी  white supporters ( `` Scalawags . '' )
As a  परिणाम , अफ़्रीकी अमेरिकी  were represented in the U.S. Congress for the first time in American history in 1870 .
Reformers praised Grant 's  भारतीय सलाम नीति by having टूटा the deadlock on भारतीय appropriations in कॉंग्रेस , the सृष्टि of  the Board of Indian Commissioners to make reform recommendations , and his enlistment of Quaker Protestants who controlled mid western Indian agencies , that effectively curbed Congressional patronage .
Grant remained determined in keeping Indians from being  exterminated इससे श्वेत settler अतिक्रमण or by the  U.S. military .
Grant 's  प्रतिष्ठा as अध्यक्ष by 1875 थी at an all-time ऊँची लिये उसके पिछला  veto of the Inflation Bill , the passage of the Resumption of Specie Act , and Secretary Bristow 's successful raids that shut down the Whiskey Ring .
Grant 's foreign policy , led by Secretary of State Hamilton Fish , implemented International  मध्यस्थता , settled the अलबामा  Claims with Britain and avoided war with Spain over the Virginius Affair .
A jukebox is a partially automated music-playing device , usually a coin-operated  यंत्र , कि होगा खेल a संरक्षक 's चयन इससे self-contained मीडिया  .
The  क्लासिक ज्यूकबॉक्स रै बटन साथ अक्षर और संख्याएँ  on them that , when entered in combination , are used to play a specific selection .
A drug test is a technical analysis of a biological specimen – for example urine , hair , blood , sweat , or oral fluid / saliva – to determine the  उपस्थिति or अनुपस्थिति of निर्दिष्ट जनक दवाएँ or उनके metabolites  .
Major uses of drug testing  हैं to detect the उपस्थिति of प्रदर्शन बढ़ाना  steroids in sport or for drugs prohibited by laws , such as cannabis , cocaine and heroin .
A ``  10-panel मूत्र स्क्रीन  '' consists of the following:
Amphetamines  ( सहित methamphetamine  )
barbiturates
benzodiazepines
cannabinoids  ( THC )
कोका
methadone
methaqualone
Opiates ( Codeine , Morphine , Heroin  , oxycodone , hydrocodone  , etc . )
phencyclidine (  PCP )
propoxyphene
Saturn  v प्रक्षेपास्त्र , प्रयुक्त लिये the अमरीकी  manned lunar landing missions
Space exploration is the discovery and  खोजी of बाहरी स्पेस by  means of space technology .
Physical exploration of space is conducted both by human spaceflights and by  रोबोटिक spacecraft  .
While the observation of objects in space , known as astronomy , predates reliable recorded history , it was the  विकास of विशाल और अपेक्षाकृत कुशल rockets दौरान the जल्दी 20th सदी कि अनुमत शारीरिक स्पेस खोजी to become  a reality .
Common rationales for exploring space include advancing  वैज्ञानिक शोध , uniting अलग राष्ट्र , ensuring  the future survival of humanity and developing military and strategic advantages against other countries .
Various criticisms of  स्पेस खोजी हैं sometimes  made .
Space  खोजी रै प्रायः महरूम  used as a proxy competition for geopolitical rivalries such as the Cold War .
The  जल्दी era of स्पेस खोजी थी चलित by a `` स्पेस रेस `` between the सोवियत संघ और the संयुक्त राज्य , the लॉन्च of the पहला man-made ऑब्जेक्ट to कक्षा the धरती , the ussr 's  Sputnik 1 , on 4 October 1957 , and the first Moon landing by the American Apollo 11 craft on 20 July 1969 are often taken as the boundaries for this initial period .
The Soviet space program achieved many of the first milestones , including the first living being in orbit in 1957 , the first human  spaceflight ( यूरी गगारिन सवार वोस्तोक 1 ) in 1961 , the पहला spacewalk ( by aleksei leonov ) on 18 कूच 1965 , the पहला स्वचालित  landing on another celestial body in 1966 , and the launch of the first space station ( Salyut 1 ) in 1971 .
After the first 20 years of exploration ,  फ़ोकस shifted इससे one-off फ़्लाइट to बेदर्दी  hardware , such as the Space Shuttle program , and from competition to cooperation as with the International Space Station ( ISS ) .
With  the substantial पूर्णता of the  ISS following STS-133 in March 2011 , plans for space exploration by the USA remain in flux .
Constellation , a  बुश प्रशासन कार्यक्रम लिये a वापसी to the चंद्रमा by 2020 थी  judged inadequately funded and unrealistic by an expert review panel reporting in 2009 .
The Obama Administration proposed a revision of Constellation in 2010 to focus on the development of the capability for crewed missions beyond low earth orbit ( LEO ) , envisioning extending the operation of the ISS beyond 2020 , transferring the development of launch vehicles for human crews from NASA to the private sector , and developing technology to enable missions to beyond LEO , such as Earth/Moon L1  , the चंद्रमा , earth/sun l2 , near-earth क्षुद्रग्रह  , and Phobos or Mars orbit .
As of March 2011 , the US Senate and House of  प्रतिनिधि हैं स्टिल working towards a सुलह नासा funding विधेयक , जिससे होगा  probably terminate Constellation and fund development of a heavy lift launch vehicle ( HLLV ) .
In  the 2000s , the लोगों 's गणतंत्र of चीन initiated  a successful manned spaceflight program , while the European Union , Japan , and India have also planned future manned space missions .
China , Russia , Japan , and India have advocated manned missions to the Moon during the 21st century , while the European Union has advocated  मानवयुक्त मिशन to दोनो the चंद्रमा और मंगल दौरान the  21st century .
From the 1990s onwards , private interests began promoting space tourism and then  निजी स्पेस खोजी of the चंद्रमा  ( see Google Lunar X Prize ) .
John Calvin  कूलिज , jr. ( जुलाई 4 , 1872january 5 , 1933  ) was the 30th President of the United States ( 1923–1929 ) .
A Republican lawyer from Vermont , Coolidge worked his way up the ladder of Massachusetts state politics ,  आखिरकार बनने राज्यपाल of कि  state .
His  conduct दौरान the बोस्टन पुलिस स्ट्राइक of  1919 thrust him into the national spotlight and gave him a reputation as a man of decisive action .
Soon after , he was elected as the 29th Vice President in 1920 and succeeded to the  प्रेसिडेंसी upon the अचानक मौत of वारेन G. हार्डिंग  in 1923 .
निर्वाचित in उसके अपना सही in 1924 , he gained a प्रतिष्ठा  as a small-government conservative , and also as a man who said very little .
Coolidge restored public confidence in the White House after the scandals of his predecessor 's  प्रशासन , और बाएँ दफ्तर साथ considerable लोकप्रियता  .
As a Coolidge biographer put it , `` He embodied the spirit and hopes of the  मध्य क्लास , could interpret  their longings and express their opinions .
That he did represent the genius of the average is the  सबसे convincing प्रमाण of  his strength . ''
Some later  criticized कूलिज as भाग of a सामान्य  criticism of laissez-faire government .
His  प्रतिष्ठा underwent a पुनर्जागरण दौरान the रोनाल्ड reagan प्रशासन , लकिन the परम मूल्यांकन of उसके प्रेसिडेंसी  is still divided between those who approve of his reduction of the size of government programs and those who believe the federal government should be more involved in regulating and controlling the economy .
Espresso is a concentrated  पेय brewed by forcing a छोटी राशि of nearly  boiling water under pressure through finely ground coffee beans .
Espresso often has a thicker consistency than coffee brewed by other methods , a higher concentration of suspended and dissolved solids  , और crema ( अर्थ मलाई , लकिन होने a सन्दर्भ to the झाग साथ a मलाईदार बनावट  that forms as a result of the pressure ) .
As a  परिणाम of the pressurized brewing प्रक्रम the जायका  and chemicals in a typical cup of espresso are very concentrated .
एस्प्रेसो is the आधार लिये अन्य पेय , ऐसे as  a latte , cappuccino , macchiato , mocha , or americano .
Espresso has more caffeine per unit volume than most beverages , but the usual  सेवारत आकार is smaller—a ठेठ 60 ml ( 2 us द्रव ounce ) of एस्प्रेसो रै 80 to 150 mg of कैफीन , छोटी  less than the 95 to 200 mg of a standard 240 mL ( 8 US fluid ounces ) cup of drip-brewed coffee .
ब्रायन कैथ केली ( born अक्तूबर  25 , 1961 ) is an American football coach and former player .
He is currently the head  फ़ुटबॉल कोच लिये the notre dame लड़ आयरिश  , a position he has held since December 2009 .
Kelly was  previously सिर कोच at ग्रैंड घाटी राज्य विश्वविद्यालयों ( 1991–2003 ) , सेंट्रल मिशिगन  University ( 2004–2006 ) , and University of Cincinnati ( 2006–2009 ) .
A contract is an agreement having a lawful  ऑब्जेक्ट डाला into voluntarily by दो or अधिक पार्टियों  , each of whom intends to create one or more legal obligations between them .
The elements of a contract are `` offer '' and `` acceptance '' by `` competent  व्यक्तियों '' having विधिक क्षमता जो एक्सचेंज `` विचार '' to बनाएँ ``  mutuality of obligation . ''
Proof  of कुछ or सब  of these elements may be done in writing , though contracts may be made entirely orally or by conduct .
The remedy for breach  of अनुबंध can be `` क्षतिपूर्ति '' in  the form of compensation of money or specific performance enforced through an injunction .
Both of these  remedies पुरस्कार the पार्टी at घाटा the `` लाभ of the सौदेबाजी  '' or expectation damages , which are greater than mere reliance damages , as in promissory estoppel .
The  पार्टियों may  be natural persons or juristic persons .
a अनुबंध is a legally  enforceable promise or undertaking that something will or will not occur .
the शब्द वादा can be प्रयुक्त as a विधिक पर्याय लिये अनुबंध , हालांकि  care is required as a promise may not have the full standing of a contract , as when it is an agreement without consideration .
Contract law varies greatly from one jurisdiction to another , including differences in common law compared to  सिविल विधि , the प्रभाव of प्राप्त विधि , विशेषकर इससे इंग्लैण्ड in  common law countries , and of law codified in regional legislation .
Regarding Australian  अनुबंध विधि लिये उदाहरण  , there are 40 relevant acts which impact on the interpretation of contract at the Commonwealth ( Federal / national ) level , and an additional 26 acts at the level of the state of NSW .
In addition there are 6  अंतरराष्ट्रीय यंत्र or प्रथाओं जिससे हैं लागू लिये अंतरराष्ट्रीय  dealings , such as the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods .
Sidney  पैट्रिक crosby , ons ( born अगस्त  7 , 1987 ) is a Canadian professional ice hockey player who is captain of the Pittsburgh Penguins of the National Hockey League ( NHL ) .
Crosby was drafted first overall by the Penguins  आउट of the क्यूबेक प्रमुख जूनियर हॉकी लीग  ( QMJHL ) .
During his two-year  प्रमुख जूनियर करियर साथ the rimouski océanic , he अर्जित back-to-back  CHL Player of the Year awards and led his club to the 2005 Memorial Cup final .
Nicknamed `` The Next One `` , he was one of the most highly regarded draft picks in hockey history , leading many to refer to  the 2005 ड्राफ्ट लॉटरी as the `` sidney crosby sweepstakes  '' .
In his  पहला एनएचएल ऋतु , crosby समाप्त छठे in लीग स्कोरिंग साथ 102  points ( 39 goals , 63 assists ) and was a runner-up for the Calder Memorial Trophy ( won by Alexander Ovechkin ) .
By his second season , he led the NHL with 120 points ( 36 goals , 84 assists ) to capture the Art Ross  ट्रॉफी , बनने the youngest खिलाड़ी और the तभी किशोरावस्था  to win a scoring title in any major North American sports league .
That same season , Crosby also won the Hart Memorial Trophy as the Professional Hockey  लेखक संघ 's चुनाव लिये सबसे मूल्यवान खिलाड़ी और the लेस्टर B. पियर्सन  Award as the NHL Players Association 's choice for most outstanding player , becoming the seventh player in NHL history to earn all three awards in one year .
Crosby started the 2007–08 season with the team  's कप्तानी और subsequently led  them to the 2008 Stanley Cup Finals , where they were defeated by the Detroit Red Wings in six games .
The Penguins returned to the Finals against Detroit the following year and won in seven games  ; crosby became the youngest कप्तान  in NHL history to win the Stanley Cup .
In the 2009–10 season , Crosby scored a career-high 51 goals , tying him with Steven Stamkos for the Rocket Richard Trophy as the league-leader ; with 58 assists , he  totaled 109 अंक , दूसरी in the  NHL .
During the off-season , Crosby received  the चिह्नित मेसियर नेतृत्व  Award .
In 2010–11 ,  crosby sustained a concussion as a  result of hits to the head in back-to-back games .
The injury left him  sidelined लिये  ten and a half months .
However , after playing eight games in the 2011–12 season ,  crosby 's concussion-like लक्षण लौटे in दिसम्बर 2011 , और he किया नहीं  return until mid-March 2012 .
Internationally , Crosby has represented  कनाडा in numerous tournaments लिये the  country 's junior and men 's teams .
After competing in the  2003 u-18 जूनियर संसार कप , he represented कनाडा  in back-to-back IIHF World U20 Championships , winning silver in 2004 and gold in 2005 .
At the 2006 IIHF World Championship , he led the tournament in scoring , while also  कमाई शीर्ष आगे और all-star टोली honours .
Four  सालो बाद , crosby  was named to Team Canada for the 2010 Winter Olympics in Vancouver .
Playing the United States in the gold medal game ,  he scored the game-winning लक्ष्य in ओवरटाइम  .
A United States cent ,  भी ज्ञात as  a penny .
`` My two cents '' ( 2¢ ) and its longer version `` put my two  सेंट in '' is an संयुक्त राज्य ( us ) idiomatic अभिव्यक्ति  , taken from the original English idiom expression : to put in `` my two pennies worth '' or `` my tuppence worth . ''
It is used to  preface the अंतरिम  stating of one’s opinion .
By deprecating the opinion to follow – suggesting its value is only two cents , a very small amount – the  उपयोक्ता of the phrase उम्मीदें to lessen the प्रभाव of a संभवतः बयान , प्रर्दशित politeness और  humility .
However , it is also sometimes used with  विडंबना जब expressing a strongly  felt opinion .
The  phrase is भी प्रयुक्त आउट of आदत  to preface uncontentious opinions .
For  example:
The Chinese Civil  युद्ध थी a सिविल युद्ध in चीन लड़ा between शक्तियां वफ़ादार to the सरकारी  of the Republic of China led by the Kuomintang ( KMT ) and forces of the Communist Party of China ( CPC ) .
The war began in April 1927 , amidst the Northern Expedition ,  और essentially ended जब प्रमुख क्रियाशील लड़ाइयों  ceased in 1950 .
The conflict eventually resulted in two de facto states ,  the गणतंत्र of चीन ( आरओसी ) in ताईवान और the लोगों  's Republic of China ( PRC ) in mainland China , both claiming to be the legitimate government of China .
The war represented an ideological split ( Left vs . Right ) between the  कम्युनिस्ट cpc , और the kmt 's ब्रांड of राष्ट्रवाद  .
The  सिविल युद्ध जारी intermittently जबतक लेट  1937 , when the two parties formed a Second United Front to counter a Japanese invasion .
China 's  full-scale सिविल युद्ध resumed in 1946 , a साल बाद  the end of hostilities with Japan .
After four more years ,  1950 देखी the cessation of प्रमुख सैन्य hostilities—with the newly संस्थापित लोगों 's गणतंत्र of चीन controlling मेनलैंड  China ( including Hainan ) , and the Republic of China 's jurisdiction being restricted to Taiwan , Penghu , Quemoy , Matsu and several outlying islands .
The Kuomintang defeat is attributed to several factors : Corruption -  च्यांग लिखा in उसके डायरी on जून 1948 कि the kmt था  failed , not because of external enemies but because of rot from within .
Strong initial support from the U.S.  diminished , और तब , रोका  .
( Partly because of KMT  भ्रष्टाचार और anti-democratic शासन , और partly क्युकी of the अनिश्चित u.S. विदेशी नीति  towards Communism between 1945 and 1950 ) ; Communist land reform policy promised poor peasants farmland from their landlords .
This ensured  pla लोकप्रिय  support .
After the  आत्मसमर्पण of जापानी at  the end of World War II , Soviet forces turned over their captured Japanese weapons to the CPC and allowed the CPC to take control of territory in Manchuria .
To this day , no armistice or peace  सन्धि रै कभी महरूम हस्ताक्षरित , और it is debated  as to the whether the Civil War has legally ended .
Cross-Strait relations have been hindered by military threats and political and economic pressure , particularly over Taiwan 's political status  , साथ दोनो सरकारें officially adhering to a `` one-china नीति .  ''
The PRC still actively claims Taiwan as part of its territory and continues to threaten the ROC with a military invasion if the ROC  officially declares स्वतंत्रता by बदलना इसके नाम to और gaining  international recognition as the Republic of Taiwan .
The ROC mutually claims mainland China , and they both continue the fight over  राजनयिक मान्यता  .
Today , the war as such occurs on  the राजनैतिक और आर्थिक fronts  in the form of cross-Strait relations ; however , the two separate de facto states have close economic ties .
The One Hundred Twelfth United States Congress was the meeting of the legislative branch of the United States federal  सरकारी , इससे जनवरी 3 , 2011 जबतक जनवरी  3 , 2013 .
It convened in Washington , D.C. on January 3 , 2011 , and  ended on जनवरी 3 , 2013 , 17 दिनों पहले the समाप्त of the अध्यक्षीय  term to which Barack Obama was elected in 2008 .
Senators elected  to नियमित शर्तें in 2006  completed those terms in this Congress .
This Congress included the last House of Representatives elected  इससे congressional जिले कि यहूद apportioned आधारित on  the 2000 census .
In the 2010 midterm elections , the Republican Party won  the बहुमत in the हाउस of प्रतिनिधि  .
While the Democrats kept their Senate  बहुमत , it  was reduced from the previous Congress .
This was the first Congress  in जिससे the हाउस और सीनेट यहूद नियंत्रित by अलग पार्टियों चूंकि the 107th कॉंग्रेस  ( 2001–2003 ) , and the first Congress to begin that way since the 99th Congress ( 1985–1987 ) .
In this  कॉंग्रेस , the हाउस of प्रतिनिधि था the largest  number of Republican members , 242 , since the 80th Congress ( 1947–1949 ) .
It was also the first Congress since 1947 in which no member of the  कैनेडी परिवार परोसा , as खूब as the सबसे नीतियां polarized कॉंग्रेस चूंकि पुनर्निर्माण  , with record low approval ratings .
Wealth in the United States is commonly measured in terms of net worth , which is the sum of all  एसेट , सहित घर इक्विटी ,  minus all liabilities .
The total net worth of US households  और  nonprofit organizations 1945–2009 , unadjusted for inflation or population change .
For example , a household in possession of an $ 800,000 house , $ 5,000 in mutual funds , $ 30,000 in cars , $ 20,000 worth of stock  in उनके अपना कम्पनी , और a $ 45,000 ira होता have  assets totaling $ 900,000 .
Assuming that this household would have a $ 250,000  बंधक , $ 40,000 in car लोन , और $ 10,000 in क्रेडिट कार्ड कर्ज़ , इसके debts होता  total $ 300,000 .
Subtracting the debts from the worth of this household 's  एसेट ( 900,000 - $ 300,000  = $ 600,000 ) , this household would have a net worth of $ 600,000 .
Net worth  can vary साथ  fluctuations in value of the underlying assets .
The wealth  —more specifically , the मध्य  net worth—of households in the United States is varied with relation to race , education , geographic location and gender .
As one  होता expect , households साथ वृहद आय  feature the highest net worths , though high income can not be taken as an always accurate indicator of net worth .
Overall the  क्रमांक of wealthier households is on the वृद्धि , साथ  baby boomers hitting the highs of their careers .
In addition , wealth is unevenly distributed ,  साथ the wealthiest 25 % of us households  owning 87 % of the wealth in the United States , which was $ 54.2 trillion in 2009 .
Including human capital such as skills  , the संयुक्त राष्ट्र अनुमानित  the total wealth of the United States in 2008 to be $ 118 trillion .
This article deals with Selective Dorsal Rhizotomy ( SDR ) rather than the rhizotomy procedures for pain relief  ; लिये those प्रक्रियाओं , जिससे have begun to लो the नाम `` rhizotomy '' in निश्चित उदाहरण , देखिए  facet rhizotomy and similar .
A rhizotomy ( ) is a term chiefly referring to a neurosurgical procedure that selectively destroys problematic nerve roots in the spinal  cord , सबसे प्रायः to relieve the लक्षण of neuromuscular शर्तें ऐसे as spastic diplegia और अन्य  forms of spastic cerebral palsy .
The selective dorsal rhizotomy ( SDR ) for spastic cerebral palsy has been the main  उपयोग of rhizotomy लिये neurosurgeons specialising in spastic cp चूंकि the 1980s ; in इस सर्जरी  , the spasticity-causing nerves are isolated and then targeted and destroyed .
The sensory nerve roots , where spasticity is located , are first separated from the motor ones , and  the तंत्रिका मछली to be काटें हैं तब पहचाना via electromyographic  stimulation .
The ones producing spasticity are then  selectively lesioned साथ छोटा विद्युत  pulses .
In  spasticity , rhizotomy precisely लक्ष्य और नष्ट the क्षतिग्रस्त nerves  that don’t receive gamma amino butyric acid , which is the core problem for people with spastic cerebral palsy .
These over-firing , non-GABA-absorbing nerves generate unusual electrical activity during the EMG testing phase in SDR and are thus considered to be the source of the patient 's hypertonia ;  वे हैं eliminated साथ the विद्युत pulses एकबार पहचाना , जबकि the बाकी  nerves and nerve routes carrying the correct messages remain fully intact and untouched .
This means that the spasticity is permanently dissolved , and that this is done without affecting nervous system sensitivity or function in other areas , because the only nerves  नष्ट हैं the over-firing ones जिम्मेदार लिये the मांसपेशी tightness  .
The terms rhizotomy and neurotomy are also increasingly becoming  interchangeable in the उपचार  of chronic back pain from degenerative disc disease .
This is a procedure called a facet rhizotomy and  is नहीं a सर्जिकल कार्यविधि लकिन is बजाय किया  on an outpatient basis using a simple probe to apply radiofrequency waves to the impinged pain-causing nerve root lying between the facet joint and the vertebral body .
Such radio frequency nerve lesioning results in five to eight or more months of pain relief before the nerve  regenerates और another गोलाकार  of the procedure needs to be performed .
A facet rhizotomy is just one of many different forms of  radiofrequency ablation , और इसके उपयोग of the `` rhizotomy '' नाम चाहिए नहीं be  confused with the SDR procedure .
Migrant workers  in कैलिफ़ोर्निया  , 1935
The term migrant worker has different  आधिकारिक meanings और connotations  in different parts of the world .
The United Nations ' definition is broad ,  सहित कोई लोगों working  outside of their home country .
The term can  भी be प्रयुक्त to describe किसी जो migrates भीतर a देश ,  possibly their own , in order to pursue work such as seasonal work .
फोटोग्राफ of लील वेन  with teardrop tattoos below his eyes .
The  teardrop टैटू or आंसू टैटू is a सांकेतिक  tattoo that is placed underneath the eye .
It  रै no फिक्स्ड  meaning but almost all meanings ( see below ) have some connection to prison .
U.S. Route 75 is a  north–south u.S. राजमार्ग  .
The highway 's northern terminus is in Kittson  काउंटी , मिनेसोटा , at the कनाडाई किनारा , जहाँ it एकबार जारी as मनिटोबा  Highway 75 on the other side of the now-closed border crossing .
Its southern terminus is at Interstate 30 and Interstate  45 in डलास , टेक्सास , जहाँ it is  known as North Central Expressway .
U.S. 75 was a border-to-border  रूट , इससे कनाडा to the गल्फ of  Mexico at Galveston , Texas .
However , the entire segment south of Dallas , Texas has been  decommissioned in एहसान of अंतरराज्यीय  45 , a cutoff section of town-to-town surface road having become State Highway 75 .
निम्नतर नवीं वार्ड  is a neighborhood of the city of New Orleans .
As the name  implies , it is भाग  of the Ninth Ward of New Orleans .
The Lower Ninth Ward is often thought of as the entire area within New Orleans downriver of  the औद्योगिक कनाल ; however , the नगर नियोजन आयोग divides इस क्षेत्रफल  into the Lower Ninth Ward ( 2 ) and Holy Cross ( 3 ) neighborhoods .
The term `` Lower '' refers to its location farther towards the mouth of the Mississippi  नदी , `` bas '' or `` नीचे '' the बाकी of the नगर  in local geographic terminology .
But the 9th Ward ,  जैसे सब wards in नई ऑरलियन्स , is a  voting district .
The 9th Ward was added as  a मतदान ज़िला  in 1852 .
The `` lower '' 9th Ward is composed of Ward 9 Districts 1 , 2 , 4 , and 7 which make  up the पावन क्रॉस क्षेत्रफल और वार्ड 9 जिले 3 ,  5 , 6 , and 8 .
Higher voting district  संख्याएँ in the 9th वार्ड ( 8-27 ) हैं on the  upriver side of the Industrial Canal .
The  क्षेत्रफल आए to नेशनल ध्यान  for its devastation in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina in 2005 .
हबल दृश्य of कोपरनिकस crater ( इनसेट )  , which is about 58 miles ( 93 km ) wide
Red and orange tinted Moon ,  as देखी इससे धरती दौरान a चंद्र ग्रहण  , where the Earth comes between the Moon and Sun
The Moon is the only natural  उपग्रह of the धरती , और the  fifth largest satellite in the Solar System .
It is the  largest प्राकृतिक उपग्रह of a ग्रह in the सौर प्रणाली सापेक्ष to the आकार of इसके  primary , having 27 % the diameter and 60 % the density of Earth , resulting in its mass .
The Moon  is the दूसरी densest  satellite after Io , a satellite of Jupiter .
The Moon is in synchronous rotation with Earth , always showing the same face with its near side marked  by अंधेरा volcanic मरिया कि भरण between  the bright ancient crustal highlands and the prominent impact craters .
it is the brightest ऑब्जेक्ट in the आसमान बाद  the Sun , although its surface is actually very dark , with a reflectance similar to that of coal .
Its prominence in  the आसमान और इसके नियमित साईकिल of phases have , चूंकि  ancient times , made the Moon an important cultural influence on language , calendars , art and mythology .
The Moon 's gravitational influence  produces the समंदर tides और the मिनट  lengthening of the day .
The Moon 's current orbital distance , about thirty times the diameter of  the धरती , कल्याणकारी it to appear लगभग the वही  size in the sky as the Sun , allowing it to cover the Sun nearly precisely in total solar eclipses .
This matching of apparent  विज़ुअल आकार is a संयोग  .
The Moon 's linear distance from the Earth is currently increasing at a rate of 3.82±0.07cm  प्रति साल , लकिन इस रेट  is not constant .
The Moon is thought to have formed nearly 4.5  अरब सालो पहले , नहीं long बाद the  Earth .
Although there have been several hypotheses for its origin in the past , the current most widely accepted explanation is that the Moon formed  इससे the मलबा बाएँ over बाद a दानव प्रभाव between धरती  and a Mars -sized body .
The Moon is the only  celestial देह अन्य than धरती  on which humans have set foot .
The Soviet Union 's Luna programme was the first to reach the Moon with unmanned spacecraft in 1959 ; the United States ' NASA Apollo program achieved the only manned missions to date , beginning  साथ the पहला मानवयुक्त चंद्र orbiting मिशन by अपोलो 8 in 1968 , और छह मानवयुक्त चंद्र अवतरण between 1969 और 1972 , साथ the  first being Apollo 11 .
These missions  लौटे over 380 kg of चंद्र रॉक्स ,  which have been used to develop a geological understanding of the Moon 's origins , the formation of its internal structure , and its subsequent history .
After the Apollo 17 mission in 1972 , the Moon has been  visited तभी by unmanned spacecraft , notably by the फाइनल  Soviet Lunokhod rover .
Since 2004 , Japan , China  , इण्डिया , the  United States , and the European Space Agency have each sent lunar orbiters .
These spacecraft have contributed to confirming the discovery of lunar water ice in  permanently shadowed craters at the डंडे और बंधी  into the lunar regolith .
Future manned missions to the Moon have been  नियोजित , सहित सरकारी as खूब as  privately funded efforts .
The Moon remains , under the Outer Space Treaty  , फ़्री to सब राष्ट्र to explore  for peaceful purposes .
Ronald Wilson Reagan ( ; February 6 , 1911 – June 5 , 2004 ) was the  40th अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य ( 1981–1989 )  .
Prior to that , he was the 33rd Governor of California (  1967–1975 ) , और a रेडियो , फिल्मी  and television actor .
Born in Tampico  , इलिनोइस , और उठाया in डिक्सन , reagan थी शिक्षित at यूरेका  College , earning a Bachelor of Arts degree in economics and sociology .
After graduating , Reagan moved first to Iowa to work as a radio broadcaster and then ,  in 1937 , to लॉस एंजिल्स जहाँ he began a करियर  as an actor , first in films and later television .
Some of his most notable films include Knute Rockne , All American ( 1940 ) , Kings Row  ( 1942 ) , और bedtime लिये bonzo ( 1951 )  .
Reagan served as President of the Screen Actors  गिल्ड और बाद as a प्रवक्ता लिये सामान्य इलेक्ट्रिक ( ge ) ; उसके  start in politics occurred during his work for GE .
Originally a member of the Democratic Party , his  स्थितियाँ began shifting rightward in the 1950s , और he  switched to the Republican Party in 1962 .
After delivering a rousing speech in support of Barry Goldwater 's presidential  उम्मीदवारी in 1964 , he थी persuaded to तलाश the कैलिफ़ोर्निया  governorship , winning two years later and again in 1970 .
He was defeated in his run for the Republican presidential nomination in 1968 and in 1976 , but won both the nomination and general  चुनाव in 1980 , defeating  incumbent Jimmy Carter .
As president ,  reagan implemented sweeping नई राजनैतिक  and economic initiatives .
His supply-side economic policies , dubbed `` Reaganomics `` , advocated reducing tax rates to spur economic  विकास , controlling the धन सप्लाई to reduce महंगाई , deregulation  of the economy , and reducing government spending .
In his first  पद he बच an हत्या attempt  , took a hard line against labor unions , announced a new War on Drugs , and ordered an invasion of Grenada .
He was re-elected in a  भूस्खलन in 1984 , proclaiming  that it was `` Morning in America `` .
His second term was primarily marked by foreign matters ,  ऐसे as the समाप्ति of the ठंडा युद्ध , the 1986 bombing  of Libya , and the revelation of the Iran-Contra affair .
Publicly  describing the सोवियत संघ as an `` दुष्ट साम्राज्य `` , he समर्थित anti-communist  movements worldwide and spent his first term forgoing the strategy of détente by ordering a massive military buildup in an arms race with the USSR .
Reagan negotiated with Soviet  सामान्य सचिव  Mikhail Gorbachev , culminating in the INF Treaty and the decrease of both countries ' nuclear arsenals .
Reagan  बाएँ दफ्तर in  1989 .
in 1994 , the पूर्व अध्यक्ष disclosed कि he था महरूम diagnosed  with Alzheimer 's disease earlier in the year ; he died ten years later at the age of 93 .
A conservative icon , he ranks  अत्यधिक in पब्लिक राय पोल of u.S. राष्ट्रपतियों  and is credited for generating an ideological renaissance on the American political right .
Complete set of scrolls ,  constituting the संपूर्ण tanakh  .
The Tanakh ( , or ; also Tenakh  , tenak , tanach  ) is a name used in Judaism for the canon of the Hebrew Bible .
The  tanakh is भी ज्ञात  as the Masoretic Text or the Miqra .
The name is an acronym formed from the  आरंभिक यहूदी अक्षर of the masoretic टेक्स्ट 's तीन परंपरागत subdivisions : the  Torah ( `` Teaching '' , also known as the Five Books of Moses ) , Nevi'im ( `` Prophets '' ) and Ketuvim ( `` Writings '' ) —hence TaNaKh .
The name `` Miqra '' ( מקרא ) , meaning `` that which is  पढ़ा '' , is an वैकल्पिक यहूदी पद  for the Tanakh .
The books of the Tanakh were relayed with an accompanying oral tradition  passed on by प्रत्येक पीढी  , called the Oral Torah .
The Kawasaki Ninja ZX-6R is a Kawasaki  600 cc क्लास खेल मोटरसाइकिल  .
it थी introduced in  1995 , and has been constantly updated throughout the years in response to new products from Honda , Suzuki , and Yamaha .
The ZX series is what was known as the  निंजा लकीर of कावासाकी मोटरसाइकिल in the 1980s  and still carries the name today .
Assassination attempts and plots on Presidents of the United States have been numerous : more than 20 attempts to kill sitting and  पूर्व राष्ट्रपतियों , as खूब as the presidents-elect , हैं ज्ञात  .
Four sitting presidents have been killed  : अब्राहम lincoln ( the 16th अध्यक्ष ) , जेम्स A. गारफ़ील्ड ( the 20th अध्यक्ष ) , विलियम mckinley  ( the 25th President ) and John F. Kennedy ( the 35th President ) .
Two presidents were injured in attempted assassinations : former President  थियोडोर रूज़वेल्ट ( the 26th अध्यक्ष )  , and President Ronald Reagan ( the 40th President ) .
Although the historian J.W . Clarke has suggested that most American assassinations were politically motivated  क्रियाएँ , carried आउट by तर्कसंगत मेन , नहीं सब ऐसे हमले have महरूम undertaken लिये  political reasons .
Some  हमलावर था questionable दिमागी स्थिरता  , and a few were judged legally insane .
Since the Vice President of the United States has for more than a  सदी महरूम निर्वाचित इससे the वही राजनैतिक पार्टी as the अध्यक्ष , the हत्या of  the President is unlikely to result in major policy changes .
This may  बताइये क्यों राजनैतिक समूह typically  do not make such attacks .
Where the Red Fern Grows is a novel written  by विल्सन राल्स  in 1961 about a boy who buys and trains two Redbone Coonhound hunting dogs .
Oklahoma ( ) ( Pawnee : Uukuhuúwa , Cayuga : Gahnawiyoˀgeh ) is a state  स्तिथ in वेस्ट दक्षिण सेंट्रल  United States .
Oklahoma is the 20th most extensive and the 28th most  populous of the 50 संयुक्त राज्य  .
The state 's name is derived from the Choctaw  शब्द okla और humma , अर्थ `` रेड लोगों ''  , and it is known informally by its nickname , The Sooner State .
Formed by the combination of Oklahoma Territory and Indian Territory on November 16 , 1907 ,  ओक्लाहोमा थी the 46th राज्य to डालें the  union .
Its residents are  ज्ञात as oklahomans or , informally  `` Okies '' , and its capital and largest city is Oklahoma City .
A major producer of natural gas , oil , and agriculture , Oklahoma relies on  an आर्थिक आधार of विमानन  , energy , telecommunications , and biotechnology .
It has one of the fastest growing economies in the  स्वदेश , रैंकिंग among the शीर्ष राज्य in प्रति capita आय विकास  and gross domestic product growth .
Oklahoma City and Tulsa serve as Oklahoma 's primary economic anchors , with nearly two thirds of Oklahomans living within their  महानगर  statistical areas .
With small mountain ranges , prairie , mesas , and eastern forests , most of Oklahoma  झूठ in the ग्रेट मैदान और the u.s . आंतरिक हाइलैंड्स —a प्रदेश विशेषकर prone  to severe weather .
In addition to having a prevalence of  अंग्रेज़ी , जर्मनी , स्कॉटिश , आयरिश और देशी अमरीकी  ancestry , more than 25 Native American languages are spoken in Oklahoma , second only to California .
Oklahoma is located on a confluence of three major American cultural regions and  historically परोसा as a रूट लिये चौपायों ड्राइव , a गंतव्य  for southern settlers , and a government-sanctioned territory for Native Americans .
Redwall , by Brian Jacques , is a  श्रेणी of children 's काल्पनिक  novels .
It is the title of the first book of the series , published in 1986 , as well as the name of the Abbey featured in the book and the name of an animated TV series based on  तीन of the novels ( redwall , mattimeo , और मार्टिन the योद्धा ) , जिससे पहला  aired in 1999 .
The books  हैं primarily aimed at पुरानी children  , but have fans of all ages .
There have been  twenty-two novels और दो  picture books published .
The twenty-second ,  और फाइनल , अनोखा , the दुष्ट क्रू  , was posthumously released on May 3 , 2011 .
Natural  गैस is प्रायः measured by आवाज़ in  the United States and is stated in cubic feet .
A cubic foot of  गैस is the राशि of गैस needed to भरण a आवाज़ of एक घन पैर अंतर्गत नियत शर्तें of दबाव और temperature.to माप larger amounts  of natural gas , a `` therm '' is used to denote 100 cubic feet , and `` mcf '' is used to denote 1,000 cubic feet .
To provide greater  सटीकता in comparing fuels , उर्जा  content is measured in terms of `` British Thermal Units ( BTU 's ) . ''
A BTU is the amount of heat required to raise one pound of water (  लगभग a pint ) , एक उपाधि फ़ारेनहाइट at or बंद to इसके पाइंट of अधिकतम  density .
One British therm ( symbol thm ) is a non- SI unit of heat energy  बराबर to 100,000 अंग्रेजों थर्मल  units ( BTU ) .
It is approximately the energy equivalent of burning  100 घन फीट ( प्रायः referred to as 1 ccf  ) of natural gas .
Since ( Natural Gas ) meters measure volume and not energy  सामग्री , a therm फ़ैक्टर is प्रयुक्त  by ( Natural ) gas companies to convert the volume of gas used to its heat equivalent , and thus calculate the actual energy use .
The therm factor is usually in  the इकाई therms/ccf  .
It will vary with the mix of hydrocarbons in  the प्राकृतिक  gas .
Natural gas with a higher than average concentration of ethane ,  प्रोपेन or ब्यूटेन होगा have a उच्चतर therm  factor .
Impurities , such  as कार्बन डाइऑक्साइड or नाइट्रोजन , निम्नतर  the therm factor .
The volume of  the गैस is गणना as if measured  at standard temperature and pressure ( STP ) .
The heat content of natural gas is  solely निर्भर on the संयोजन of the गैस , और is स्वतंत्र  of temperature and pressure .
One therm  is बराबर to परिचय 105.5 megajoules  , 25,200 kilocalories or 29.3 kilowatt-hours .
One therm can also be provided by  परिचय of प्राकृतिक गैस  .
The therm  sometimes रै महरूम उलझन साथ  the thermie ( see below ) .
The names of  दोनो इकाई आइये  from the Greek word for heat .
a thermie ( th ) is a मीट्रिक  unit of heat energy , part of the meter-tonne-second system sometimes used by European engineers .
The thermie is equal to the amount of energy  जरूरी to उठाएँ the तापमान  of 1 tonne of water by 1 °C .
The thermie is equivalent to 1,000 kilocalories ,  4.1868 megajoules or 3968.3  BTU .
The American  सिविल युद्ध ( acw ) , भी ज्ञात as the युद्ध between the राज्य or बस the सिविल युद्ध ( देखिए  naming ) , was a civil war fought from 1861 to 1865 between the United States ( the `` Union '' or the `` North '' ) and several Southern slave states that declared their secession and formed the Confederate States of America ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ) .
The war had its origin in the issue of slavery , especially the  एक्सटेंशन of गुलामी into the पश्चिमी territories  .
विदेशी शक्तियां किया  not intervene .
After four years of bloody  कॉम्बैट कि बाएँ over 600,000 सैनिको मुर्दे और नष्ट much of the दक्षिण 's अवसंरचना  , the Confederacy collapsed , slavery was abolished , and the difficult Reconstruction process of restoring national unity and guaranteeing rights to the freed slaves began .
In the 1860 presidential election , Republicans , led  by अब्राहम lincoln , opposed expanding गुलामी  into United States ' territories .
Lincoln won , but before his inauguration on  कूच 4 , 1861 , सात cotton-based स्लेव राज्य formed the confederacy  .
Outgoing Democratic President James  बुकानन और the आवक republicans अस्वीकृत  secession as illegal .
lincoln 's inaugural पता घोषित उसके प्रशासन  would not initiate civil war .
Eight remaining slave states continued to  अस्वीकृत काल्स लिये secession  .
Confederate forces seized numerous federal forts within  territory claimed by the confederacy  .
a सलाम सम्मेलन विफल to ढूँढें a सुलह  , and both sides prepared for war .
The Confederates assumed that European countries were so  निर्भर on `` किंग कपास `` कि वे होता intervene ; none किया और  none recognized the new Confederate States of America .
Hostilities began on April  12 , 1861 , जब confederate शक्तियां fired  upon Fort Sumter , a key fort held by Union troops in South Carolina .
Lincoln  पुकारा लिये प्रत्येक राज्य to provide सैनिकों  to retake the fort ; consequently , four more slave states joined the Confederacy , bringing their total to eleven .
The Union soon controlled the border states and  स्थापित  a naval blockade that crippled the southern economy .
The Eastern Theater was  inconclusive in 1861–62  .
The autumn 1862 Confederate campaign into Maryland ( a Union state )  ended साथ confederate रिट्रीट at the बैटल of antietam , dissuading  British intervention .
Lincoln issued the Emancipation  उदघोषणा ,  which made ending slavery a war goal .
To the west , by summer 1862 the Union destroyed the Confederate river navy , then much of their  पश्चिमी सेना , और the संघ at vicksburg विभाजित the confederacy in दो at the  Mississippi River .
In 1863 , Robert E. Lee 's  confederate incursion उत्तर ended at the बैटल of gettysburg  .
Western successes led  to ulysses S. ग्रान्ट कमांड  of all Union armies in 1864 .
In the  पश्चिमी थिएटर , विलियम T. शरमन drove ईस्ट to  capture Atlanta and marched to the sea , destroying Confederate infrastructure along the way .
the संघ marshaled the संसाधन और जनशक्ति  to attack the Confederacy from all directions , and could afford to fight battles of attrition through the Overland Campaign towards Richmond , the Confederate capital .
The defending Confederate  फौज विफल , अग्रणी to ली  's surrender to Grant at Appomattox Court House on April 9 , 1865 .
The American Civil War was one of  the earliest सच्चा औद्योगिक युद्धों  .
Railroads , the telegraph , steamships , and mass-produced  हथियार यहूद employed extensively  .
The mobilization of civilian factories , mines , shipyards ,  बैंको , परिवहन और खाना आपूर्तियाँ सब foreshadowed  World War I .
It remains the deadliest war in  अमरीकी इतिहास , resulting in the मौतों of an अनुमानित  750,000 soldiers and an undetermined number of civilian casualties .
Historian John Huddleston estimates the death  टोल at टेन प्रतिशत of सब उत्तरी males 20–45 सालो बूढ़ा , और 30  percent of all Southern white males aged 18–40 .
William Bruce Jenner ( born October 28 ,  1949 ) is a पूर्व u.S. track और फ़ील्ड खिलाड़ी  , motivational speaker , socialite , television personality and businessman .
He  जीती the सुनहरा पदक लिये  decathlon in the Montreal 1976 Summer Olympics .
Following his Olympic win and the related  मान्यता , he शादीशुदा क्रिस कार्दशियन , और उसके  professional career evolved into being a television celebrity .
By 1981 , he had starred in  अनेक made-for-tv फिल्मों और थी erik  Estrada 's replacement on the top rated TV series CHiPs .
He has six children : Burt ,  केसी , ब्रैंडन , ब्रोडी , केंडल और  Kylie .
Since his 1991 marriage to Kris Jenner ,  he is the stepfather to कोर्टनी , किम , khloe  and Rob Kardashian .
Since 2007 , he has appeared with his blended  परिवार on keeping up साथ the  Kardashians .
Escherichia coli ( ; commonly  abbreviated E. कोलाई ) is a gram-negative , rod-shaped  bacterium that is commonly found in the lower intestine of warm-blooded organisms ( endotherms ) .
Most E. coli strains are harmless  , लकिन कुछ serotypes can कारण गंभीर खाना विषाक्तता in इंसानो  , and are occasionally responsible for product recalls due to food contamination .
The  हानिरहित strains हैं भाग of the सामान्य फ्लोरा of the आंत , और can लाभ उनके होस्ट  by producing vitamin K2 , and by preventing the establishment of pathogenic bacteria within the intestine .
E. coli and related bacteria constitute about 0.1 % of gut flora , and fecal–oral transmission  is the प्रमुख रूट through जिससे रोगजनक strains  of the bacterium cause disease .
कोशिकाएं हैं समर्थ to जीवित बाहर  the body for a limited amount of time , which makes them ideal indicator organisms to test environmental samples for fecal contamination .
There is , however , a growing body of research that has examined  environmentally persistent E. कोलाई जिससे can जीवित लिये विस्तारित अवधि बाहर  of the host .
The bacterium can also be grown easily and inexpensively in a laboratory setting , and has been  intensively investigated  for over 60 years .
E. coli is the most widely studied prokaryotic model  सजीव , और an महत्वपूर्ण प्रजाति in the फ़ील्ड of जैवप्रौद्योगिकी  and microbiology , where it has served as the host organism for the majority of work with recombinant DNA .
Area code 217 is the North American  टेलीफोन क्षेत्रफल कोड लिये much of पश्चिमी और सेंट्रल  Illinois .
The 217 area includes Illinois '  पूंजी , springfield , प्लस champaign , urbana , decatur ,  Danville , Quincy , and Rantoul .
217  थी एक of the  original area codes , which were created in 1947 .
The only significant change in 217 's  सीमाएँ थी in 1957 , जब इसके उत्तरी portion  was combined with part of area code 815 to form area code 309 .
Image of the largest Antarctic ozone  छेद कभी अंकित ( सितंबर 2006 ) , over  the Southern pole
Layers of the  माहौल ( नहीं to  scale )
Ozone depletion describes two  पृथक लकिन सम्बन्धित phenomena observed चूंकि the लेट 1970s : a स्थिर मनाही of परिचय 4 % प्रति दशक  in the total volume of ozone in Earth 's stratosphere ( the ozone layer ) , and a much larger springtime decrease in stratospheric ozone over Earth 's polar regions .
The latter phenomenon is  referred to as the ओज़ोन  hole .
In addition to these well-known stratospheric phenomena , there are  भी springtime ध्रुवीय tropospheric ओज़ोन depletion कार्यक्रम  .
The details of polar ozone hole formation differ from that of mid-latitude thinning , but the most  महत्वपूर्ण प्रक्रम in दोनो is catalytic विनाश of ओज़ोन  by atomic halogens .
the प्रमुख सोर्स of ये हैलोजन  atoms in the stratosphere is photodissociation of man-made halocarbon refrigerants ( CFCs , freons , halons ) .
These compounds  हैं transported into the stratosphere  after being emitted at the surface .
Both types of ozone depletion were  observed to बढ़ाएँ as emissions of halo-carbons  increased .
CFCs and other contributory substances  हैं referred to as  ozone-depleting substances ( ODS ) .
Since the  ओज़ोन परत रोकता सबसे नुकसानदेह uvb wavelengths ( 280–315 nm ) of पराबैंगनी लाइट ( uv लाइट ) इससे गुजर through the धरती 's  atmosphere , observed and projected decreases in ozone have generated worldwide concern leading to adoption of the Montreal Protocol that bans the production of CFCs , halons , and other ozone-depleting chemicals such as carbon tetrachloride and trichloroethane .
It is suspected that a variety of  biological consequences ऐसे as increases in स्किन कर्कट , cataracts , क्षति to  plants , and reduction of plankton populations in the ocean 's photic zone may result from the increased UV exposure due to ozone depletion .
The Preamble  to the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान is a ब्रैड परिचयात्मक  statement of the Constitution 's fundamental purposes and guiding principles .
It  राज्य in सामान्य शर्तें , और न्यायालयों have referred to it as विश्वसनीय प्रमाण of , the founding fathers ' इरादों regarding the  Constitution 's meaning and what they hoped the Constitution would achieve as it pertains to all of the people of the United States .
As the phrase , `` we the people  '' suggests कि the नई सरकारी originates इससे the लोगों of the संयुक्त राज्य  and it sets into motion a question as it pertains to that vast population concerning the individual rights and equality among all people ; this can be seen most broadly in the divide between republicanism and social democracy .
Czechoslovakian shot putter  plihan at the 1957 ईस्ट जर्मनी अंदर एथलेटिक्स  Championships
The  शॉट put ( सुनाया ) is a track और फ़ील्ड इवेंट involving  `` throwing '' / '' putting '' ( throwing in a pushing motion ) a heavy spherical object —the shot—as far as possible .
the शॉट put प्रतियोगिता लिये मेन रै महरूम a भाग of the आधुनिक ओलंपिक  since their revival in 1896 , women 's competition began in 1948 .
Map of the United  राष्ट्र ( un ) सदस्य राज्य , साथ  their territories ( including dependent territories ) recognized by the UN in blue
There are United Nations ( UN ) member states , and  प्रत्येक of उन्हें is a सदस्य of the संयुक्त राष्ट्र  General Assembly .
The criteria for admission of new members are  नियत आउट in the संयुक्त  Nations Charter , Chapter II , Article 4:
A recommendation for admission from the Security Council requires affirmative votes from at least nine of the council 's fifteen  सदस्यों , साथ none of the पाँच स्थाई सदस्यों मतदान  against .
The Security Council 's recommendation must then  be subsequently स्वीकृत in the सामान्य सभा by  a two-thirds majority vote .
In principle , only sovereign states can become UN members , and currently all UN members are sovereign states ( although a few members  यहूद नहीं sovereign जब वे joined  the UN ) .
Because a state can only be admitted to the UN by the approval of the  सुरक्षा परिषद और the सामान्य सभा , a क्रमांक of राज्य कि may be माना sovereign राज्य according to the montevideo सम्मेलन मापदण्ड  are not members because the UN does not consider them to possess sovereignty , mainly due to the lack of international recognition or opposition from certain members .
In addition to the member states , the UN also invites non-member states ( currently two : the Holy See and Palestine ) , intergovernmental organizations , and other international organizations and entities whose statehood or sovereignty are not precisely defined , to become  observers at the सामान्य सभा , allowing उन्हें to participate और बोलो , लकिन नहीं vote , in सामान्य सभा  meetings .
the एफिल मीनार ( , ) is an आयरन जाली मीनार स्तिथ  on the Champ de Mars in Paris , named after the engineer Gustave Eiffel , whose company designed and built the tower .
Erected in 1889 as  the प्रवेश मेहराब to the 1889 संसार 's मेला , it रै become दोनो a वैश्विक  cultural icon of France and one of the most recognizable structures in the world .
The tower is the tallest structure in Paris and the most-visited  सशुल्क स्मारक in the संसार ; 7.1 लाख लोगों  ascended it in 2011 .
The third level observatory 's upper platform is at the highest accessible to public  in the यूरोपीय संघ और the उच्चतम in यूरोपीय as long as the मंच of the ostankino  Tower , at , remains closed as a result of the fire of August 2000 .
The tower received its 250  millionth आगंतुक in  2010 .
The  मीनार स्टैंड लम्बा , परिचय  the same height as an 81-storey building .
During its construction , the Eiffel Tower surpassed the  वॉशिंगटन स्मारक to assume the शीर्षक of the  tallest man-made structure in the world , a title it held for 41 years , until the Chrysler Building in New York City was built in 1930 .
Because of the addition ,  in 1957 , of the एंटीना atop the एफिल मीनार  , it is now taller than the Chrysler Building .
Not  सहित ब्रॉडकास्ट एन्टेना , it is the second-tallest  structure in France , after the Millau Viaduct .
The  मीनार रै तीन स्तर  for visitors .
Tickets  can be खरीदा to ascend , by  stairs or lift ( elevator ) , to the first and second levels .
The walk from ground level to the first level is over 300 steps , as is the  चलना इससे the पहला to the दूसरी स्तर  .
The third and highest level is accessible only by lift—stairs  do मौजूद लकिन हैं प्रायः बंद  to the public .
The first and second  स्तर have रेस्तरां  .
The tower has become the most prominent symbol of both Paris and France ,  प्रायः in the establishing शॉट of films नियत  in the city .
केनेथ वेन `` केन '' जेनिंग्स iii ( born may  23 , 1974 ) is an American game show contestant and author .
Jennings is noted for holding the record for the longest winning streak on the U.S.  syndicated खेल दिखाएँ jeopardy  !
and as being the  all-time अग्रणी धन विजेता  on American game shows .
In  2004 , जेनिंग्स जीती  74 Jeopardy !
games before he was defeated by  चैलेंजर नैंसी zerg  on his 75th appearance .
His  कुल आय  on Jeopardy !
are $ 3,172,700 , consisting of $ 2,520,700 over his 74 wins , a $ 2,000 second-place  पुरस्कार in उसके 75th रूप , a $ 500,000 second-place पुरस्कार in the  Jeopardy !
परम टूर्नामेंट of champions , as  well as half of a $ 300,000 prize in the IBM Challenge .
During  उसके पहला  run of Jeopardy !
appearances , Jennings earned  the रिकार्ड लिये the  highest American game show winnings .
His total was surpassed by  ब्रैड rutter , जो पराजित जेनिंग्स in the फाइनल of the  Jeopardy !
Ultimate  टूर्नामेंट of champions ( पहला aired  on May 25 , 2005 ) , adding $ 2,000,000 to Rutter 's existing Jeopardy !
winnings  .
Jennings regained the record after appearing  on अनेक अन्य खेल shows , culminating in an रूप on हैं तुम होशियार  Than a 5th Grader ?
( first  aired on अक्तूबर 10 ,  2008 ) , though Rutter retains the Jeopardy !
रिकार्ड  .
After his success on Jeopardy ! , Jennings wrote about his experience and explored  अमरीकी ट्रिविया इतिहास और संस्कृति in उसके किताब brainiac  : Adventures in the Curious , Competitive , Compulsive World of Trivia Buffs , published in 2006 .
The Canadian Football League or CFL ( ' [ LCF ] in French ) is a  पेशेवर खेल लीग स्तिथ  in Canada .
The CFL is the highest level of competition in Canadian football , a form  of gridiron फ़ुटबॉल closely  related to American football .
Its eight current teams , which are located in eight separate cities ,  हैं विभाजित into दो विभाजन  of four teams each — the East Division and the West Division .
The league 's  19-week नियमित ऋतु रनों इससे लेट जून to जल्दी नवम्बर  ; each team plays 18 games with one bye week .
Following the regular season , the three teams with the best records in their division ( except if the fourth place team in one division has a better record than  the तीसरा प्लेस टोली in the अन्य प्रभाग , जब the टोली साथ the बेहतर रिकार्ड makes the playoffs और `` crosses over '' to the अन्य प्रभाग 's playoff ) compete in the लीग 's three-week डिवीजनल playoffs , जिससे culminate in the  late-November Grey Cup championship , the country 's largest annual sports and television event .
The CFL was officially founded  on जनवरी 19 , 1958 , बनाना it the दूसरी oldest gridiron  football league in North America still in operation , although all its teams long predate the modern formation of the league .
It is the highest level of play in Canadian football , the most popular football league in Canada , and the second-most  लोकप्रिय प्रमुख खेल लीग in कनाडा , बाद the नेशनल हॉकी लीग .
Although  बर्फ हॉकी is कनाडा 's सबसे लोकप्रिय खेल , the cfl रै increased  the popularity of Canadian football in Quebec and Western Canada .
Canadian football is also played at amateur levels ( i.e .  युवावस्था , ऊँची स्कूल , cjfl , qjfl , cis और वरिष्ठ लीग  such as the Alberta Football League ) .
The 2010s will be a significant decade for the CFL in terms of growth ,  as टीमों have संवर , विस्तारित स्टेडियम , or योजना to निर्माण entirely  new stadiums .
The Montreal Alouettes accomplished this first ,  adding 5,000 सीटे to पर्सिवल molson मेमोरियल स्टेडियम in समय  for the 2010 CFL season .
The Edmonton Eskimos and Calgary  स्तेमपेड्रस भी संवर उनके संबंधित  stadiums and facilities for the 2010 season .
In  2011 , the bc शेर निभाई अंतर्गत a नई , retractable छत  in BC Place after spending one and a half seasons at Empire Field .
तब the विन्निपेग ब्लू बमवर्षक  will play in an entirely new stadium at the University of Manitoba , scheduled to open in time for the 2013 season .
The Hamilton Tiger-Cats , Saskatchewan Roughriders and the new Ottawa franchise are also looking at  नई or extensively-renovated स्टेडियम  in the following years .
There are  भी उम्मीदें of expanding the लीग to अटलांटिक कनाडा ( ideally  basing a team in either the more populated Halifax , or the more centralized Moncton ) , as 2010 and 2011 had regular season games hosted in Moncton .
According to sports historian Douglas Brei , the Canadian Football League holds the distinction of being the only professional sports  लीग in उत्तर अमेरिका , प्रमुख or नाबालिग लीग , in जिससे प्रत्येक मौजूदा मताधिकार  has won at least one league title while in their current location .
Each antibody  बांधता to a विशिष्ट प्रतिजन ; an  interaction similar to a lock and key .
An antibody ( Ab ) , also known as an immunoglobulin ( Ig ) , is a  विशाल y-shaped प्रोटीन उत्पादित by b-cells कि is प्रयुक्त by the प्रतिरक्षा प्रणाली to पहचानो  and neutralize foreign objects such as bacteria and viruses .
The  एंटीबॉडी recognizes a अद्वितीय भाग of the विदेशी  target , called an antigen .
Each tip of the `` Y '' of an antibody contains a paratope ( a structure  analogous to a ताला ) कि is विशिष्ट लिये एक particular epitope ( similarly analogous to a कुंजी ) on an प्रतिजन , allowing  these two structures to bind together with precision .
Using this binding mechanism , an antibody can tag a microbe or an infected cell for  आक्रमण by अन्य भाग of the प्रतिरक्षा प्रणाली , or can neutralize इसके निशाना सीधे ( लिये उदाहरण , by ब्लॉकिंग  a part of a microbe that is essential for its invasion and survival ) .
The production  of antibodies is the प्रमुख फलन  of the humoral immune system .
Antibodies are secreted by a type of white blood cell  पुकारा a प्लाज्मा कोशिका .
Antibodies  can occur in दो शारीरिक फ़ॉर्म , a घुलनशील रूप कि is स्रावित इससे the कोशिका  , and a membrane -bound form that is attached to the surface of a B cell and is referred to as the B cell receptor ( BCR ) .
The BCR is only found on the surface of B cells and facilitates the activation of these cells and their subsequent differentiation into either antibody factories  पुकारा प्लाज्मा कोशिकाएं , or मेमोरी b कोशिकाएं कि होगा जीवित in the देह और याद कि वही प्रतिजन so the  B cells can respond faster upon future exposure .
In  सबसे मामले , बातचीत of the b कोशिका साथ a t हेल्पर कोशिका is  necessary to produce full activation of the B cell and , therefore , antibody generation following antigen binding .
Soluble antibodies are released into the blood and tissue fluids , as well as many secretions  to continue to सर्वेक्षण  for invading microorganisms .
Antibodies are glycoproteins belonging to the immunoglobulin  superfamily ; the शर्तें एंटीबॉडी और immunoglobulin  are often used interchangeably .
Antibodies are typically made of  मौलिक संरचनात्मक units—each साथ दो विशाल  heavy chains and two small light chains .
There are several different types of antibody heavy chains , and several different kinds of antibodies  , जिससे हैं grouped into अलग isotypes आधारित on  which heavy chain they possess .
Five different  एंटीबॉडी isotypes हैं ज्ञात in स्तनधारियों , जिससे perform अलग भूमिकाएँ , और सहायता सीधा the उचित प्रतिरक्षा जवाब  for each different type of foreign object they encounter .
Though the general structure of all antibodies is very similar , a small region at the tip of  the प्रोटीन is अत्यधिक परिवर्तनीय , allowing लाखो of antibodies साथ  slightly different tip structures , or antigen binding sites , to exist .
This region is  ज्ञात as the hypervariable  region .
Each of these variants can  bind to a अलग  antigen .
This enormous diversity of antibodies allows the immune system to  recognize an बराबर चौड़ी किस्में of antigens  .
The large and diverse population of antibodies is  उत्पन्न by यादृच्छिक combinations of a नियत of जीन खण्ड कि encode अलग प्रतिजन बाइंडिंग साइट ( or paratopes ) ,  followed by random mutations in this area of the antibody gene , which create further diversity .
Antibody genes also re-organize in  a प्रक्रम पुकारा क्लास switching कि परिवर्तन the आधार of the भारी कड़ी  to another , creating a different isotype of the antibody that retains the antigen specific variable region .
This allows a single antibody to be used by several different  भाग of the प्रतिरक्षा प्रणाली  .
The symbol used  by the zodiac कातिल  to sign his correspondence
the zodiac कातिल थी a  serial killer who operated in Northern California in the late 1960s and early 1970s .
the कातिल 's पहचान  remains unknown .
The Zodiac  murdered पीड़ितों in benicia , vallejo , झील berryessa  , and San Francisco between December 1968 and October 1969 .
चार मेन और तीन महिलाओं  between the ages of 16 and 29 were targeted .
The killer originated  the नाम `` zodiac '' in a श्रेणी of  taunting letters sent to the local Bay Area press .
These letters included four  cryptograms ( or ciphers  ) .
Of the four cryptograms sent , only one has  महरूम definitively हल  .
Suspects have been named by law enforcement and amateur investigators , but no conclusive evidence  रै surfaced  .
In April 2004 , the San Francisco Police  विभाग चिह्नित the मामला `` निष्क्रिय  '' , yet re-opened the case at some point prior to March 2007 .
The  मामला भी remains खोलें in the नगर of  Vallejo , as well as in Napa County and Solano County .
The California Department of  इंसाफ रै कायम an खोलें मामला  file on the Zodiac murders since 1969 .
Jennings is a small city in and the parish seat of  जेफरसन डेविस मोहल्ला , louisiana ,  United States , near Lake Charles .
The population was 10,383 at the 2010 census , a  छोटी मनाही इससे the 2000 tabulation  .
The city is 68  प्रतिशत श्वेत  .
Jennings is the principal city of the Jennings  micropolitan सांख्यिकीय क्षेत्रफल , जिससे शामिल सब  of Jefferson Davis Parish .
It is also part of the larger Lake  charles-jennings संयुक्त सांख्यिकीय  Area .
Nanotechnology ( sometimes shortened to ``  nanotech '' ) is the हेरफेर  of matter on an atomic and molecular scale .
The earliest , widespread description of  nanotechnology referred to the particular technological लक्ष्य of precisely manipulating अणु  and molecules for fabrication of macroscale products , also now referred to as molecular nanotechnology .
A more generalized description of  nanotechnology थी subsequently स्थापित by the नेशनल nanotechnology पहल , जिससे defines nanotechnology  as the manipulation of matter with at least one dimension sized from 1 to 100 nanometers .
This definition reflects the fact that quantum mechanical effects are important at this quantum-realm scale , and so the definition  shifted इससे a particular technological लक्ष्य to a शोध श्रेणी समावेशी of सब प्रकार of शोध और technologies  that deal with the special properties of matter that occur below the given size threshold .
It is therefore common to see the plural form `` nanotechnologies '' as well  as `` nanoscale technologies '' to refer to the व्यापक दायरा of  research and applications whose common trait is size .
Because of the variety of potential applications (  सहित औद्योगिक और सैन्य ) , सरकारें have invested  billions of dollars in nanotechnology research .
Through its National Nanotechnology  पहल , the यूएसए रै invested 3.7 अरब  dollars .
the यूरोपीय संघ रै invested  1.2 billion and Japan 750 million dollars .
Nanotechnology as defined by size is naturally very  व्यापक , सहित फ़ील्ड of  science as diverse as surface science , organic chemistry , molecular biology , semiconductor physics , microfabrication , etc .
The associated research and applications are equally diverse , ranging from extensions of  conventional यंत्र भौतिकी to completely नई approaches आधारित upon आणविक self-assembly , इससे विकासशील नई सामग्री साथ आयाम on the nanoscale to सीधा  control of matter on the atomic scale .
वैज्ञानिकों फिलहाल बहस  the future implications of nanotechnology .
Nanotechnology may be  समर्थ to बनाएँ अनेक नई सामग्री और डिवाइस साथ a विशाल दायरा of अनुप्रयोग  , such as in medicine , electronics , biomaterials and energy production .
On the other hand , nanotechnology raises many of the same issues as any new technology , including concerns  परिचय the toxicity और पर्यावरणीय प्रभाव of nanomaterials , और उनके संभावित प्रभाव on वैश्विक  economics , as well as speculation about various doomsday scenarios .
These  चिंताएं have led to  a debate among advocacy groups and governments on whether special regulation of nanotechnology is warranted .
Map  of the  Eastern Bloc
The term Eastern Bloc or  कम्युनिस्ट bloc refers to the पूर्व कम्युनिस्ट राज्य of सेंट्रल और पूर्वी यूरोपीय ,  generally the Soviet Union and the countries of the Warsaw Pact .
The terms Communist Bloc and Soviet Bloc were also used to denote  groupings of राज्य लकीर साथ  the Soviet Union , although these terms might include states outside Central and Eastern Europe .
The New Jersey gubernatorial  चुनाव of 2009 took प्लेस on नवम्बर  3 , 2009 .
लोकतांत्रिक राज्यपाल jon corzine थी कार्यशील लिये a दूसरी पद  and was being challenged by Republican Chris Christie , Independent Christopher Daggett and nine others , in addition to several write-in candidates .
क्रिस्टी जीती the चुनाव , साथ परिचय 48.5 प्रतिशत of the  vote , to 44.9 percent for Corzine and 5.8 percent for Daggett .
Christie won the largest  हाशिया लिये a पहला पद  Republican since 1969 .
Christie  assumed दफ्तर on जनवरी  19 , 2010 .
This was the first election to fill the newly created  दफ्तर of लेफ्टिनेंट  Governor .
The candidates for governor and lieutenant  राज्यपाल यहूद joined साथ as a सिंगल चुनाव , so कि मतदाता किया नहीं have the अवसर  to split the ticket .
Kim Guadagno , Christie 's running mate , became New  जर्सी 's पहला लेफ्टिनेंट राज्यपाल  following her inauguration .
Health care in the United States is  provided by अनेक पृथक संगठन  .
Health care facilities  हैं largely स्वामित्व और संचालित by निजी सेक्टर  businesses .
Health insurance for public  सेक्टर कर्मचारी is primarily  provided by the government .
60-65 % of healthcare provision and spending comes from programs such as Medicare , Medicaid , TRICARE , the Children 's Health  बीमे कार्यक्रम , और the दिग्गजों स्वास्थ्य प्रशासन  .
Most of the population under 65 is  insured by उनके or a परिवार सदस्य 's नियोक्ता , कुछ  buy health insurance on their own , and the remainder are uninsured .
Of 17 high-income countries studied by the National Institutes of  स्वास्थ्य in 2013 , the संयुक्त राज्य थी at or निकट the नीचे in शिशु मृत्यु , दिल  and lung disease , sexually transmitted infections , adolescent pregnancies , injuries , homicides , and rates of disability .
Together , such issues place the U.S. at the  नीचे of the सूची लिये जीवन प्रत्याशा  .
On average , a U.S. male can  be अपेक्षित to सजीव लगभग चार कम सालो than those  in the top-ranked country .
According to the World Health Organization ( WHO ) , the United  राज्य खर्च अधिक on स्वास्थ्य परवाह प्रति capita ( $ 7,146  ) , and more on health care as percentage of its GDP ( 15.2 % ) , than any other nation in 2008 .
The  राष्ट्रमंडल निधि क्रमित the संयुक्त  States last in the quality of health care among similar countries , and notes U.S. care costs the most .
The U.S. Census Bureau reported that 49.9 million residents , 16.3 % of the population , were uninsured in 2010 ( up from 49.0 million  निवासियों , 16.1 % of the जनसांख्यिकी  , in 2009 ) .
A 2004 Institute of Medicine ( IOM ) report said : `` The United States is among the few industrialized nations in  the संसार कि करता नहीं गारंटी अभिगम to स्वास्थ्य  care for its population . ''
A 2004 OECD report said : `` With  the एक्सेप्शन of मैक्सिको , तुर्कों , और the संयुक्त राज्य , सब oecd देशों  had achieved universal or near-universal ( at least 98.4 % insured ) coverage of their populations by 1990 . ''
A 2010 report observed that lack of  स्वास्थ्य बीमे कल्याणकारी roughly 48,000  unnecessary deaths every year in the United States .
In 2007 , 62.1 % of filers for bankruptcies claimed high  चिकित्सा खर्च  .
A 2013 study found that about 25  % of सब वरिष्ठ नागरिकों घोषित दिवालियापन due  to medical expenses , and 43 % are forced to mortgage or sell their primary residence .
On March 23 , 2010 , the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act ( PPACA ) became law , providing for major  परिवर्तन in स्वास्थ्य बीमे  .
In  physiology , देह जल is the जल  content of the human body .
A  significant भिन्न of the इंसान  body is water .
आर्थर guyton 's textbook of चिकित्सा physiology राज्य कि `` the  total amount of water in a man of average weight ( 70 kilograms ) is approximately 40 litres , averaging 57 percent of his total body weight .
In a newborn infant , this may be as high as 75 percent of the body weight , but it  progressively decreases इससे जनम to बूढ़ा आयु , सबसे  of the decrease occurring during the first 10 years of life .
Also , obesity decreases the  प्रतिशत of जल in the देह , sometimes  to as low as 45 percent '' .
These figures are  सांख्यिकीय averages , so हैं illustrative , और जैसे सब biostatistics  , will vary with things like type of population , age and number of people sampled , and methodology .
So  वहीँ is नहीं , और can नहीं be , a फिगर  that is exactly the same for all people , for this or any other physiological measure .
For example , Jackson 's  ( 1985 ) anatomy & physiology लिये  Nurses gives a figure of 60 % for the proportion of body-weight attributable to water , which approximates Guyton 's 57 % .
In diseased states where body water is affected , the  कम्पार्टमेंट or compartments कि have बदला can दे clues to the प्रकृति  of the problem .
Body water is  regulated by हार्मोन , सहित  anti-diuretic hormone ( ADH ) , aldosterone and atrial natriuretic peptide .
Per Netter 's  एटलस of इंसान physiology , देह जल  is broken down into the following compartments:
Intracellular fluid ( 2/3 of  देह जल  ) .
Per Guyton , in a body containing 40 litres of fluid ,  परिचय 25 लीटर is intracellular , जिससे amounts to 62.5 % ( 5/8 ) , बंद पर्याप्त  to the 2/3 rule of thumb .
Jackson 's texts  राज्य 70 % of देह  fluid is intracellular .
extracellular द्रव  ( 1/3 of body water ) .
Per Guyton 's illustration , for a 40 litre body , about   15 litres is extracellular , which amounts to 37.5 % Again , this is close to the 1/3 rule of thumb cited here .
Plasma ( 1/5 of  extracellular द्रव ) .
Per Guyton 's illustration , of the 15  लीटर of extracellular द्रव , प्लाज्मा  volume averages 3 litres .
This  amounts to 20 % , the  same as per Netter 's Atlas .
Interstitial  द्रव ( 4/5 of extracellular  fluid )
Transcellular fluid ( a.k.a . ``  तीसरा स्पेस , '' सामान्यतः  ignored in calculations )
Contained inside  अंगों , ऐसे as the  gastrointestinal , cerebrospinal , peritoneal , and ocular fluids .
Self-esteem is  a पद प्रयुक्त in मनोविज्ञान to प्रतिबिंबित a व्यक्ति  's overall emotional evaluation of his or her own worth .
It is a judgement  of oneself as खूब as an रवैया  toward the self .
Self-esteem encompasses  मान्यताओं ( लिये उदाहरण , `` i am competent , ''  `` I am worthy '' ) and emotions such as triumph , despair , pride and shame .
Smith and Mackie  define it by saying  `` The self-concept is what we think about the self ; self-esteem , is the positive or negative evaluations of the self , as in how we feel about it . ''
Self-esteem is also known as the evaluative dimension of the self that includes feelings  of worthiness , prides और discouragement  .
One  's self-esteem is भी  closely associated with self-consciousness .
Self-esteem is a disposition that  a व्यक्ति रै जिससे represents उनके निर्णयों  of their own worthiness .
In the  mid-1960s , मॉरिस rosenberg और  social-learning theorists defined self-esteem as a personal worth or worthiness .
nathaniel branden in 1969 पारिभाषित self-esteem as `` the अनुभव  of being competent to cope with the basic challenges of life and being worthy of happiness . ''
According to  branden , self-esteem is the योग of self-confidence  ( a feeling of personal capacity ) and self-respect ( a feeling of personal worth ) .
It exists as a consequence of the implicit judgement that every person has of their ability to face life 's challenges ,  to समझे और solve समस्याएं , और उनके सही to achieve सुख , और  be given respect .
As a  सोशल मनोवैज्ञानिक construct , self-esteem is आकर्षक क्युकी शोधकर्ताओं have conceptualized it as an influential  predictor of relevant outcomes , such as academic achievement ( Marsh 1990 ) or exercise behavior ( Hagger et al . 1998 ) .
In addition , self-esteem has also been treated as an important outcome due to  इसके बंद संबंध साथ मनोवैज्ञानिक well-being  ( Marsh 1989 ) .
Self-esteem can apply specifically to a particular dimension ( for example , `` I believe I am a good  लेखक और i महसूस प्रसन्न परिचय कि '' ) or a वैश्विक extent  ( for example , `` I believe I am a bad person , and feel bad about myself in general '' ) .
Psychologists usually regard self-esteem as an enduring personality characteristic (  `` trait '' self-esteem ) , हालांकि सामान्य , short-term विसंगतियाँ  ( `` state '' self-esteem ) also exist .
Synonyms or near-synonyms of self-esteem include :  self-worth , self-regard , self-respect , और self-integrity  .
A Masonic Lodge , often termed a  निजी आवास or constituent आवास , is the  basic organisational unit of Freemasonry .
Every  नई आवास जरूर be warranted or चार्टर्ड by a ग्रैंड  Lodge , but is subject to its direction only in enforcing the published Constitution of the jurisdiction .
By exception the three surviving lodges that formed the world 's first known Grand Lodge  in लंदन ( आज पुकारा the संयुक्त ग्रैंड आवास of इंग्लैण्ड ) have the अद्वितीय विशेषाधिकार to operate as समय immemorial i.e . बगैर  such warrant ; only one other lodge operates without a warrant - this is the Grand Stewards ' Lodge in London , although it is not also entitled to the `` time immemorial '' title .
A Freemason is generally entitled to visit any Lodge , in any  क्षेत्राधिकार ( i.e . अंतर्गत कोई ग्रैंड  Lodge ) in amity with his own .
In some jurisdictions this privilege is restricted to  निपुण masons ( कि is , freemasons जो have  attained the Order 's third degree ) .
He is first usually required to check , and  certify , the नियमितता of the संबंध  of the Lodge - and be able to satisfy that Lodge of his regularity of membership .
Freemasons gather together as a  आवास to कार्य the तीन  basic Degrees of Entered Apprentice , Fellowcraft and Master Mason .
Pilkington Group Limited is a multinational glass manufacturing company headquartered in St Helens , United Kingdom and a  wholly स्वामित्व subsidiary of the japan-based  NSG Group .
Prior to its acquisition by NSG in 2006 it was an independent company listed on the London Stock  एक्सचेंज और लिये a समय थी a constituent of the ftse  100 Index .
A quotation is the repetition of one expression as part of another one , particularly when  the कोटेड अभिव्यक्ति is well-known or explicitly attributed by citation to  its original source , and it is indicated by ( punctuated with ) quotation marks .
A quotation can also refer to the repeated use of units  of कोई अन्य रूप of अभिव्यक्ति , विशेषकर भाग of कलाकारी works : तत्व  of a painting , scenes from a movie or sections from a musical composition .
Year 1877 ( MDCCCLXXVII ) was a common year starting on Monday ( link will display the full calendar )  of the gregorian पंचांग  and a common year starting on Saturday of the 12-day slower Julian calendar .
Black pepper ( Piper nigrum ) is  a flowering बेल in the परिवार piperaceae , cultivated  for its fruit , which is usually dried and used as a spice and seasoning .
The fruit , known as a  peppercorn जब सूखी , is लगभग in व्यास ,  dark red when fully mature , and , like all drupes , contains a single seed .
Peppercorns , and the ground pepper derived from them , may be described simply as pepper , or more precisely as black pepper ( cooked  और सूखी unripe फल ) , ग्रीन pepper ( सूखी unripe फल  ) and white pepper ( dried ripe seeds ) .
Black pepper is native to south  इण्डिया , और is extensively cultivated  there and elsewhere in tropical regions .
Currently Vietnam is the world 's largest producer and exporter of pepper ,  producing 34 % of the संसार 's पाइपर nigrum  crop as of 2008 .
Dried ground pepper has been  प्रयुक्त चूंकि प्राचीनता लिये दोनो  its flavour and as a medicine .
Black pepper is the world 's  सबसे traded मसाला  .
It is one of  the सबसे आम मसाले added to  European cuisine and its descendants .
The spiciness of black pepper is due to the chemical  piperine , नहीं to be उलझन साथ the  capsaicin that gives fleshy peppers theirs .
It is in the  आधुनिक संसार , प्रायः युग्म  with salt .
Fire hydrant in  charlottesville , वर्जिनिया ,  USA
A fire hydrant ( also known colloquially as a fire plug in the United States or as a johnny pump in New York City ) , is an active fire protection measure , and a source of water provided in most urban , suburban and rural  क्षेत्रों साथ नगरपालिका जल सेवा to enable अग्निशमन to tap into the नगरपालिका  water supply to assist in extinguishing a fire .
Buildings near a hydrant may qualify for an insurance discount since firefighters should be able  to अधिक rapidly बुझा a आग on the insured प्रॉपर्टी  .
The concept of  आग plugs तिथियाँ to at  least the 17th century .
This was a time when firefighters responding to a call would dig down to the wooden  जल मेन्स और hastily bore a छेद to सुरक्षित जल to लड़ो  fires .
The water would fill the hole creating a temporary well , and be transported from the well to  the आग by बाल्टी brigades or , बाद , by hand-pumped आग इंजन  .
The holes were then plugged with stoppers , normally redwood , which  over  time came to be known as fire plugs .
The location of the plug would often be recorded or marked so that it could  be  reused in future fires .
This is the  सोर्स of the colloquial पद आग प्लग  still used for fire hydrants today .
After the Great Fire of  लंदन in 1666 , the नगर संस्थापित जल मेन्स साथ छेद drilled at  intervals , equipped with risers , allowing an access point to the wooden fire plugs from street level .
The invention of a post- or pillar-type fire  hydrant is generally credited to फ्रेडरिक graff sr. , मुख्य इंजीनियर of the  Philadelphia Water Works around the year 1801 .
It had a  संयोजन hose/faucet आउटलेट और  was of `` wet barrel '' design with the valve in the top .
it is कहा कि graff आयोजित the पहला पेटेंट लिये a आग hydrant , लकिन इस can नहीं be  verified because the patent office in Washington D.C. caught on fire in 1836 destroying many patent records from that period in the process .
The President of  the गणतंत्र of दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी is the सिर of राज्य और सिर  of government under South Africa 's Constitution .
From 1961 to 1994 , the head of state was  पुकारा the राज्य अध्यक्ष  .
The President is elected by members of the National Assembly , the lower house of Parliament , and is usually the leader of the largest party , which has been the African  नेशनल कॉंग्रेस चूंकि the पहला non-racial चुनावों यहूद आयोजित on 27  April 1994 .
The  भूमिका थी originally संस्थापित to be पृथक इससे the अभी  defunct role of prime minister , but the two roles were merged in the 1983 constitution which specified a four-year term of office .
The 1993 and  बाद constitutions हद  the president 's time in office to two five-year terms .
The first President to be elected under the new constitution was Nelson  मंडेला , और the लाज़िम अध्यक्ष is याक़ूब zuma .
अंतर्गत the अंतरिम संविधान ( मान्य इससे 1994 to 1996 ) , वहीँ थी a सरकारी  of National Unity , in which an MP from the largest opposition party was entitled to a position as Deputy President .
Along with Thabo Mbeki , the last State  अध्यक्ष , f.w . de klerk भी परोसा as डिप्टी अध्यक्ष  , in his capacity as the leader of the National Party which was the second-largest party in the new Parliament .
But De Klerk later resigned  और गई into विपक्ष  with his party .
A voluntary coalition government continues to exist under the new constitution (  अपनाया in 1996 ) , हालांकि वहीँ have महरूम no नियुक्ति of विपक्ष राजनेता  to the post of deputy president .
Special education or special needs education is the education of students with special needs in a way that addresses the  विद्यार्थी ' व्यक्तिगत मतभेद  and needs .
Ideally , this process involves the individually planned and systematically monitored arrangement of teaching procedures , adapted equipment and materials , accessible settings , and other interventions designed to help learners with special  needs achieve a उच्चतर स्तर of निजी self-sufficiency और कामयाबी in स्कूल और जातियाँ than होता be उपलब्धियाँ if the छात्र यहूद तभी दिए अभिगम to a ठेठ कक्षा शिक्षा  .
Common special  needs शामिल चुनौतियां साथ सीखना , संचार चुनौतियां  , emotional and behavioral disorders , physical disabilities , and developmental disorders .
Students with these kinds of special needs are likely to benefit from additional educational services such as different  approaches to शिक्षण , उपयोग of प्रौद्योगिकी , a specifically adapted शिक्षण क्षेत्रफल , or  resource room .
Intellectual giftedness is a difference in learning and can also benefit from  specialized शिक्षण तकनीकों or अलग शैक्षणिक कार्यक्रम , लकिन the पद `` खास शिक्षा '' is generally प्रयुक्त to specifically indicate निर्देश of विद्यार्थी जिनकी खास needs reduce उनके क्षमता to  learn independently or in an ordinary classroom , and gifted education is handled separately .
In most developed countries , educators are modifying teaching methods and environments  so कि the अधिकतम क्रमांक of विद्यार्थी  are served in general education environments .
Special  शिक्षा in विकसित देशों is प्रायः regarded कम as a  `` place '' and more as `` a range of services , available in every school . ''
Integration can reduce social stigmas and improve academic achievement  लिये अनेक विद्यार्थी  .
The opposite  of खास शिक्षा  is general education .
General education is the standard curriculum presented with standard  शिक्षण विधि और बगैर अतिरिक्त supports  .
George Soros ( or ; ; ; born  अगस्त 12 , 1930 , as schwartz györgy ) is a hungarian-american कारोबार  magnate , investor , and philanthropist .
He is the  अध्यक्ष of सोरोस  Fund Management .
Soros supports  progressive-liberal कल्याणकारी .
He is known as `` The  man जो broke the बैंको of इंग्लैण्ड `` क्युकी of उसके in निवेश  profits during the 1992 Black Wednesday UK currency crisis .
Between 1979 and 2011 , Soros gave away over $ 8  अरब to इंसान अधिकारों , पब्लिक स्वास्थ्य  , and education causes .
He played a significant role in the peaceful transition from  साम्यवादी to पूंजीवाद in हंगेरियाई ( 1984–89 ) और  provided one of Europe 's largest higher education endowments to Central European University in Budapest .
सोरोस is भी the  chairman of the Open Society Institute .
An actor portraying  सिकंदर ग्राहम घंटी बोलना into an जल्दी मॉडल  telephone .
The invention of the telephone is the culmination of work done by many individuals , the history of which involves a  संग्रहण of दावा और counterclaims .
The  विकास of the आधुनिक विद्युत टेलीफोन  involved an array of lawsuits founded upon the patent claims of several individuals and numerous companies .
This article covers the early years from 1844 to 1898 , from conception of the idea of an electric voice-transmission  यंत्र , to विफल कोशिशें to उपयोग `` make-and-break '' वर्तमान , to कामयाब प्रयोग साथ इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक telephones by  Alexander Graham Bell and Thomas Watson , and finally to commercially successful telephones in the late 19th century .
A  निपुण of ठीक कला ( mfa , m.f.a . ) is a ग्रैजुएट उपाधि typically requiring 2–3 सालो  of postgraduate study beyond the bachelor 's degree ( BFA ) , although the term of study will vary by country or by university .
The MFA is a creative degree usually  awarded as a टर्मिनल उपाधि in विज़ुअल कला , रचनात्मक  writing , filmmaking , dance , or theatre and other performing arts .
Coursework is  primarily of an लागू or performing प्रकृति साथ the कार्यक्रम  often culminating in a major work or performance .
Master of Fine Arts programs have generally required a bachelor 's degree  prior to प्रवेश , लकिन अनेक do नहीं आवश्यकता कि the undergraduate  major be the same as the MFA field of study .
The most important  admissions आवश्यकता रै प्रायः महरूम a नमूना  portfolio or a performance audition .
The Master of Fine Arts differs from the Master of Arts in that the MFA , while an academic  कार्यक्रम , centers around अभ्यास in the particular फ़ील्ड , whereas कार्यक्रम अग्रणी to the ma प्रायः बीच on the scholarly , अकादमिक , or  critical study of the field .
Additionally , in the United States , an MFA is recognized as a terminal degree for practitioners of Visual Art , Design , Dance , Theatre , Film/Video , New Media , and Creative Writing - meaning that it is considered to be the highest degree in its field , and is used  as a न्यूनतम योग्यता to be समर्थ to लागू  to become a Full-Time Professor teaching at the University level in these disciplines .
There are exceptions to this standard in the Arts , notably in  the मामला of म्यूज़िक प्रदर्शन , जहाँ the mfa is नहीं देखी  as a terminal degree in the context of the more standardized DMA degree .
It is also critical to note that in the interest of extending the connection between creative production and continued  अकादमिक शोध , कुछ विश्वविद्यालयों have स्थापित practice-based ph.d कार्यक्रम  in fields such as creative writing , visual arts , new media , design and theater .
While this has had an effect in Creative Writing , and to a lesser extent  in डिज़ाइन और नई मीडिया , the influx of graduates इससे practice-based phd कार्यक्रम  has not appreciably changed the standard for the MFA as the terminal degree in most Arts disciplines yet .
This is an ongoing contentious topic , and is the frequent subject of academic panels , especially  at the सालाना कॉलेज आर्ट संघ सम्मेलन  .
The CAA 2008 guidelines regarding the MFA strongly  re-affirms कि the phd is नहीं जरूरी as a टर्मिनल  degree in the visual arts .
The atomic bombings of the cities of Hiroshima and Nagasaki in Japan were  conducted by the संयुक्त राज्य दौरान the फाइनल  stages of World War II in 1945 .
The two events are  the तभी उपयोग of नाभिकीय हथियार  in war to date .
Following a firebombing  अभियान कि  destroyed many Japanese cities , the Allies prepared for a costly invasion of Japan .
The war in Europe ended when Nazi Germany  हस्ताक्षरित इसके यंत्र of आत्मसमर्पण on 8 may , लकिन the प्रशांत  War continued .
Together with the United Kingdom and the Republic of China , the United States called for a surrender of Japan in the Potsdam  घोषणा on 26 जुलाई 1945 , threatening जापानी साथ `` संकेत और utter विनाश  '' .
The Japanese  सरकारी उपेक्षित इस ultimatum , और the संयुक्त राज्य तैनात  two nuclear weapons developed by the Manhattan Project .
American airmen dropped Little Boy on the city of Hiroshima on 6 August 1945  , followed by मोटे man over नागासाकी on 9 अगस्त  .
Within the first two to four months of the bombings , the acute effects killed 90,000–166,000 people in  हिरोशिमा और 60,000–80,000 in नागासाकी , साथ roughly  half of the deaths in each city occurring on the first day .
The Hiroshima prefecture health department estimated that , of the people who died on the day of  the विस्फोट , 60 % died इससे फ्लैश or ज्वाला burns ,  30 % from falling debris and 10 % from other causes .
During the following months , large  संख्याएँ died इससे the प्रभाव of burns , विकिरण  sickness , and other injuries , compounded by illness .
In a US estimate of the total immediate and short term cause of death  , 15–20 % died इससे विकिरण बीमारी , 20–30 % इससे burns  , and 50–60 % from other injuries , compounded by illness .
In both cities  , सबसे of the मुर्दे यहूद नागरिकों  , although Hiroshima had a sizeable garrison .
On 15 August , six days after the bombing of Nagasaki , Japan announced its surrender to the Allies ,  हस्ताक्षर the यंत्र of आत्मसमर्पण on 2 सितंबर  , officially ending World War II .
The bombings led , in part , to post-war Japan 's adopting Three Non-Nuclear  सिद्धान्त , forbidding the स्वदेश इससे नाभिकीय armament  .
The role of the bombings in Japan 's surrender and their ethical  औचित्य हैं स्टिल debated  .
Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi ( ; 2 October 1869 – 30 January 1948 ) , commonly known as Mahatma Gandhi , was the  preeminent नेता of भारतीय राष्ट्रवाद in  British-ruled India .
Employing non-violent civil disobedience , Gandhi led India to independence and inspired movements for  non-violence , सिविल अधिकारों और स्वतंत्रता आरपार the  world .
The son of a senior  सरकारी आधिकारिक , गांधी थी born और उठाया in a हिन्दू bania  community in coastal Gujarat , and trained in law in London .
Gandhi became famous by  लड़ लिये the सिविल अधिकारों of मुस्लिम और हिन्दू इंडियंस in दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी  , using new techniques of non-violent civil disobedience that he developed .
Returning to India in 1915 , he set about  organising peasants to विरोध excessive land-taxes  .
A lifelong opponent of `` communalism `` ( i.e . basing politics on religion ) he reached out  widely to सब धार्मिक समूह  .
He became a leader of Muslims protesting the  घटती औकात of the खिलाफत  .
Assuming  नेतृत्व of the भारतीय नेशनल कॉंग्रेस  in 1921 , Gandhi led nationwide campaigns for easing poverty , expanding women 's rights , building religious and ethnic amity , ending untouchability , increasing economic self-reliance , and above all for achieving Swaraj —the independence of India from British domination .
Gandhi led Indians in protesting the national salt tax with the Dandi Salt  कूच in 1930 , और बाद in demanding the अंग्रेजों to तत्काल  Quit India in 1942 , during World War II .
He was  imprisoned लिये कि और लिये numerous अन्य  political offenses over the years .
Gandhi sought to practice non-violence and  सच्चाई in सब परिस्थितियों , और advocated कि  others do the same .
He saw  the गांवों as the कोर of the सच्चा इण्डिया और प्रचारित  self-sufficiency ; he did not support the industrialization programs of his disciple Jawaharlal Nehru .
He  जिया modestly in a self-sufficient  residential community and wore the traditional Indian dhoti and shawl , woven with yarn he had hand spun on a charkha .
His chief  राजनैतिक दुश्मन in ब्रिटेन थी विंस्टन  Churchill , who ridiculed him as a `` half-naked fakir . ''
He was a dedicated vegetarian , and undertook long fasts as means of both  self-purification और राजनैतिक  mobilization .
In his last year , unhappy at the  विभाजन of इण्डिया , गांधी  worked to stop the carnage between Muslims , Hindus and Sikhs that raged in the border area between India and Pakistan .
He was assassinated on 30 January 1948  by nathuram गोडसे जो विचार  Gandhi was too sympathetic to India 's Muslims .
30 January is  observed as  Martyrs ' Day in India .
the honorific महात्मा ( `` ग्रेट  Soul '' ) was applied to him by 1914 .
In India he  थी भी पुकारा bapu  ( `` Father '' ) .
He is known in India as the Father of the Nation ;  उसके जन्मदिवस , 2 अक्तूबर , is commemorated वहीँ as गांधी jayanti  , a national holiday , and world-wide as the International Day of Non-Violence .
Gandhi 's  दर्शनशास्त्र थी नहीं सैद्धांतिक लकिन एक  of pragmatism , that is , practicing his principles in the moment .
Asked to give a message to the people  , he होता respond , `` my जीवन is  my message . ''
Joan Crawford ( March 23 , ca . 1904 – May 10 , 1977 ) , born Lucille Fay LeSueur , was an American actress  in फिल्मी , टेलीविज़न और थिएटर  .
Starting as a dancer in traveling theatrical companies before debuting on Broadway ,  क्रॉफर्ड थी हस्ताक्षरित to a गति चित्र  contract by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer in 1925 .
Initially frustrated by the size and quality of her parts ,  क्रॉफर्ड began a अभियान of self-publicity और became nationally ज्ञात  as a flapper by the end of the 1920s .
In the 1930s , Crawford 's fame  rivaled , और बाद outlasted , mgm सहयोगियों  Norma Shearer and Greta Garbo .
Crawford often played hardworking  यंग महिलाओं जो ढूँढें रोमांस और  financial success .
These `` rags-to-riches '' stories were well  प्राप्त by अवसाद -era ऑडियंस  and were popular with women .
Crawford became one of Hollywood 's most prominent movie stars and one of the highest  सशुल्क महिलाओं in the संयुक्त राज्य , लकिन उसके films began खोने धन और  by the end of the 1930s she was labeled `` box office poison '' .
After an absence of nearly two years from the screen , Crawford  मंचन a वापसी by अभिनीत in मिल्ड्रेड पियर्स  ( 1945 ) , for which she won the Academy Award for Best Actress .
In 1955 , she became involved with the  pepsi-cola कम्पनी through उसके विवाह to  company Chairman Alfred Steele .
After his death in 1959 , Crawford was elected to fill  उसके रिक्ति on the फलक of निर्देशकों  but was forcibly retired in 1973 .
She continued acting in film and television regularly through the 1960s , when her performances became fewer ; after  the रिलीज of the अंग्रेजों हॉरर फिल्मी trog in 1970 , क्रॉफर्ड रिटायर्ड इससे the स्क्रीन  .
Following a public appearance in 1974 , after which  unflattering छायाचित्र यहूद प्रकाशित , क्रॉफर्ड withdrew इससे पब्लिक जीवन  and became increasingly reclusive until her death in 1977 .
Crawford  शादीशुदा चार टाइम्स  .
Her first three marriages ended in divorce ; the last ended with the  मौत of husband  Alfred Steele .
She adopted five children , one of  जिसको थी reclaimed by उसके जनम माँ  .
Crawford 's  संबंध साथ उसके  two older children , Christina and Christopher , were acrimonious .
क्रॉफर्ड disinherited the दो और , बाद क्रॉफर्ड 's मौत  , Christina wrote a `` tell-all '' memoir , Mommie Dearest , in which she alleged a lifelong pattern of physical and emotional abuse perpetrated by Crawford .
She was voted the tenth  महानतम मादा स्टार in the इतिहास of अमरीकी सिनेमा  by the American Film Institute .
1910  बुइक tonneau बगैर  tonneau cover
1903  घाट मॉडल a  rear-door Tonneau
1903 lanchester  rear-door Tonneau
Tonneau cover ( or ) describes a hard or  नरम कवर प्रयुक्त to protect unoccupied यात्री सीटे in a  convertible or roadster , or the cargo bed in a pickup truck .
Hard tonneau covers open by a hinging or folding  यांत्रिकी जबकि नरम कवर खोलें by रोलिंग  up .
The tonneau  कवर is प्रयुक्त to छिपाते  cargo .
जब the कवर is खींचा आउट , it keeps वस्तुएं आउट of the  sun and provides extra security by keeping personal items out of sight , as well as shielding the driver from view .
Twitter is an online social networking service and microblogging service that enables its users to send and read  text-based संदेश of up to 140 वर्ण  , known as `` tweets '' .
Twitter was created in March 2006 by  जोकर dorsey और by जुलाई , the सोशल  networking site was launched .
The service rapidly gained worldwide popularity , with  over 500 लाख पंजीकृत उपयोक्ता as of 2012 , generating over 340 लाख tweets  daily and handling over 1.6 billion search queries per day .
चूंकि इसके लॉन्च , ट्विटर रै become एक of the टेन  most visited websites on the Internet , and has been described as `` the SMS of the Internet . ''
Unregistered users can read tweets , while registered users can post tweets through  the जालस्थल इंटरफ़ेस , sms , or a दायरा of ऐप्स  for mobile devices .
Twitter Inc. is based in San Francisco , with additional servers  और कार्यालयों in नई यॉर्क नगर , बोस्टन  , and San Antonio .
The Hangover is a 2009 American  कॉमेडी फिल्मी , co-produced और निर्देशित by  Todd Phillips and written by Jon Lucas and Scott Moore .
It is the first film of The Hangover franchise  .the फिल्मी सितारों ब्राडली कूपर , ed helms  , Zach Galifianakis , Heather Graham , Justin Bartha , and Jeffrey Tambor .
the hangover tells the स्टोरी of फिल wenneck , stu दाम और  Alan Garner , who travel to Las Vegas for a bachelor party to celebrate their friend Doug Billings ' impending marriage .
However , Phil , Stu and Alan  have no मेमोरी of the पिछला रात्रि 's कार्यक्रम  and must find Doug before the wedding can take place .
Lucas and  मूर लिखा the स्क्रिप्ट बाद कार्यपालिका निर्माता क्रिस bender 's dost disappeared  and had a large bill after being sent to a strip club .
After Lucas and Moore sold it to the studio for $ 2 million ,  फिलिप्स और जेरेमी garelick rewrote the स्क्रिप्ट to शामिल a बाघ as खूब as a  subplot involving a baby and a police cruiser , and also including boxer Mike Tyson .
Filming took place in Nevada for 15 days , and during filming , the three main  अभिनेताओं ( कूपर , helms और galifianakis  ) formed a friendship .
The Hangover was released on June 5 , 2009 ,  बनने a नाजुक और  commercial success .
It became the  tenth-highest-grossing फिल्मी of 2009  , with a worldwide gross of over US $ 467 million .
Critics praised the film 's comedic  दृष्टिकोण लकिन criticized it लिये  its vulgarity .
The film won the Golden Globe Award for Best Motion Picture – Musical or  कॉमेडी , और प्राप्त अनेक अन्य  accolades .
It is the tenth-highest-grossing film of  2009 in the संसार , as खूब as the दूसरी highest-grossing r-rated कॉमेडी कभी in the संयुक्त  States , surpassing a record previously held by Beverly Hills Cop for almost 25 years and later being surpassed by Ted in 2012 .
Out of all R-rated  films , it is the तीसरा highest-grossing कभी in the u.S. , पीछे तभी  The Passion of the Christ and The Matrix Reloaded .
A sequel , The Hangover  भाग ii , थी released  in 2011 , and a third and final film , The Hangover Part III , is set for release in 2013 .
कार्यक्रम involving meiosis , प्रर्दशित  chromosomal crossover
Meiosis ( ) is a special type of cell division necessary for sexual  जनन in eukaryotes  .
the कोशिकाएं उत्पादित by  meiosis are gametes or spores .
In many organisms , including all animals and land plants ( but not some other groups  ऐसे as fungi ) , गैमीट हैं पुकारा  sperm and egg cells .
Whilst the  प्रक्रम of meiosis bears a क्रमांक of similarities साथ the 'life-cycle  ' cell division process of mitosis , it differs in two important respects:
the chromosomes in meiosis undergo a recombination which shuffles the genes producing a different genetic combination in each gamete , compared with the co-existence of each of the two  पृथक pairs of प्रत्येक chromosome ( एक प्राप्त इससे प्रत्येक जनक ) in प्रत्येक कोशिका  which results from mitosis .
the outcome of meiosis is potentially four ( genetically  अद्वितीय ) अगुणित कोशिकाएं , compared साथ the दो ( genetically एकसमान  ) diploid cells produced from mitosis .
Meiosis begins with one diploid cell containing two copies of  प्रत्येक chromosome —one इससे the सजीव 's माँ और एक इससे  its father .
The cell divides twice ,  potentially producing up to चार अगुणित  cells containing one copy of each chromosome .
( `` Potentially '' because  in कुछ मामले , ऐसे as the  formation of oocytes in mammals , only one of the possible four haploid cells survives . )
In  पशु the अगुणित कोशिका  resulting from meiosis is a male or female gamete .
Each of the resulting chromosomes in  the gamete कोशिकाएं is a अद्वितीय मिश्रण of मातृ  and paternal DNA , resulting in offspring that are genetically distinct from either parent .
This gives rise to  जेनेटिक विविधता in sexually  reproducing populations .
This genetic diversity can provide the variation of physical and behavioural attributes ( phenotypes ) upon which natural selection can act , but , as described below in Section 6 , Origin  और फलन of meiosis , the जेनेटिक विविधता may be largely a by-product of the समजात recombination  that is primarily employed for its DNA repair function during meiosis .
It is  भी noteworthy कि दौरान meiosis , विशिष्ट जीनों हैं  more highly transcribed , and these are called the meiome , the term used in functional genomics for the meiotic transcriptome .
Meiosis is a key feature for all sexually reproducing eukaryotes in which  समजात chromosome pairing , अन्तर्ग्रथन और recombination  occur .
In addition to strong meiotic stage-specific expression of mRNA ( the meiome ) , however , there are also pervasive translational controls ( e.g . selective usage  of preformed mrna ) , regulating the परम meiotic stage-specific प्रोटीन अभिव्यक्ति of जीनों दौरान meiosis  .
Thus , both the meiome and translational controls determine the broad  restructuring of meiotic कोशिकाएं needed to carry आउट meiosis  .
Prior to the meiosis process the cell 's chromosomes are duplicated by a round of DNA replication , creating from the  मातृ और पैतृक संस्करण of प्रत्येक chromosome ( homologs ) दो सटीक नक़ल , सिस्टर  chromatids , attached at the centromere region .
In the  शुरूआत of meiosis the मातृ  and paternal homologs pair to each other .
Then they typically exchange parts by homologous  recombination अग्रणी to crossovers of डीएनए between the मातृ  and paternal versions of the chromosome .
Spindle  मछली bind to the centromeres of प्रत्येक  pair of homologs and arrange the pairs at the spindle equator .
Then  the मछली खींचो the recombined  homologs to opposite poles of the cell .
As the chromosomes move away from the center the cell divides into two daughter cells ,  प्रत्येक containing a अगुणित क्रमांक of गुणसूत्रों रचित  of two chromatids .
After the recombined maternal and paternal homologs have separated into the two daughter  कोशिकाएं , a दूसरी गोलाकार of कोशिका  division occurs .
There meiosis  ends as the दो सिस्टर chromatids बनाना up प्रत्येक homolog  are separated and move into one of the four resulting gamete cells .
Upon fertilization , for example when a  शुक्राणु enters an अंडा कोशिका , दो gamete कोशिकाएं  produced by meiosis fuse .
The gamete from the mother and the gamete from the father each contribute one half of the set of chromosomes that make  up the नई औलाद  's genome .
Meiosis uses many of the same mechanisms  as समसूत्रण , a प्रकार of कोशिका प्रभाग प्रयुक्त by eukaryotes  like plants and animals to split one cell into two identical daughter cells .
In all plants and in many protists meiosis results in the formation of spores :  अगुणित कोशिकाएं कि can divide vegetatively बगैर undergoing  fertilization .
Boxing ( pugilism , prize fighting , the sweet science or in Greek pygmachia ) is a martial art and combat sport in  जिससे दो लोगों engage in a प्रतियोगिता of शक्ति , गति , reflexes , सहनशीलता  and will by throwing punches with gloved hands .
Amateur boxing is an Olympic and Commonwealth sport and is  a आम fixture in सबसे of the प्रमुख अंतरराष्ट्रीय  games - it also has its own World Championships .
Boxing is supervised by a referee over a series of one- to  three-minute intervals पुकारा  rounds .
The result is decided when an opponent is deemed incapable to continue by a referee , is  disqualified लिये तोड़कर a नियम , resigns by फेंकना in a तौलिया ,  or is pronounced the winner or loser based on the judges ' scorecards at the end of the contest .
The birth hour of boxing  as a खेल may be इसके स्वीकृति by the प्राचीन यूनानियों as an ओलम्पिक खेल  as early as 688 BC .
Boxing evolved from 16th- and 18th-century prizefights , largely in  ग्रेट ब्रिटेन , to the forerunner of आधुनिक मुक्केबाज़ी in the mid-19th  century , again initially in Great Britain and later in the United States .
in 2004 , ईएसपीएन क्रमित मुक्केबाज़ी as the  most difficult sport in the world .
Agreement or concord happens when a word changes form depending  on the अन्य शब्द to जिससे it  relates .
It is an instance of  inflection , और प्रायः involves बनाना  the value of some grammatical category ( such as gender or person ) `` agree '' between different words or parts of the sentence .
For  उदाहरण , in मानक  English , one may say I am or he is , but not `` I is '' or `` he am '' .
This is  क्युकी the व्याकरण of the भाषा  requires that the verb and its subject agree in person .
The pronouns I and he are first and third person  क्रमशः , as हैं the क्रिया फ़ॉर्म am और  is .
The verb form must be selected  so कि it रै the वही व्यक्ति  as the subject .
The agreement based on overt grammatical categories as above is formal agreement , in  कंट्रास्ट to notional अनुबंध , जिससे is आधारित on अर्थ .
For instance , the phrase The United States is treated as singular for purposes of agreement , even  हालांकि it is formally बहुवचन .
This is a list of  स्थान नीचे औसत समुद्र स्तर  that are on land .
Places in tunnels , mines , basements , dug holes ( also with open sky ) , under  जल , अंतर्गत बर्फ , or मौजूदा temporarily as a  result of ebbing of sea tide etc . are not included .
All figures are in meters below  समुद्र level:
Debbie Macomber ( born October 22 , 1948 in Yakima , Washington ) is a  best-selling अमरीकी लेखक of over 150 रोमांस  novels and contemporary women 's fiction .
Over 140 million copies of her books are in print  throughout the संसार , और चार have  become made-for-TV-movies .
Macomber was the inaugural winner of the  fan-voted quill पुरस्कार लिये रोमांस in 2005 और रै  been awarded both a Romance Writers of America RITA and a lifetime achievement award by the Romance Writers of America .
catonsville is a census-designated  place ( CDP ) in Baltimore County , Maryland , United States .
The population was  41,567 at the 2010  census .
The community lies to the west of  बाल्टीमोर साथ the नगर  's border .
Catonsville is the home of  the विश्वविद्यालयों of मेरीलैंड , बाल्टीमोर काउंटी ( umbc ) ,  a public research university with over 12,000 students .
A lawyer , according to Black 's Law Dictionary , is `` a person learned  in the विधि ; as an  attorney , counsel or solicitor ; a person who is practicing law . ''
Law is the system of rules of conduct established by  the sovereign सरकारी of a समाज to सही wrongs , maintain the स्थिरता of राजनैतिक और सोशल प्राधिकार  , and deliver justice .
Working as a lawyer involves the practical application of abstract legal theories and knowledge to solve specific  individualized समस्याएं , or to अग्रिम the रूचि of those जो retain  ( i.e. , hire ) lawyers to perform legal services .
The role of the lawyer varies significantly across legal  jurisdictions , और so it can be treated यहाँ in  only the most general terms .
Vector Marketing is the domestic sales arm of Cutco Corporation , an Olean  , नई यॉर्क आधारित cutlery  manufacturer .
The Family and  चिकित्सा छोड़ अधिनियम of 1993 ( fmla ) is a संयुक्त राज्य संघीय विधि requiring  covered employers to provide employees job-protected and unpaid leave for qualified medical and family reasons .
Qualified medical and family  कारण शामिल : निजी or परिवार बीमारी , परिवार सैन्य छोड़ , गर्भावस्था  , adoption , or the foster care placement of a child .
The FMLA is administered by the Wage and Hour  प्रभाग of the संयुक्त राज्य विभाग  of Labor .
The bill was a major part of President Bill Clinton 's agenda  in उसके पहला पद  .
President Clinton signed the bill into law on February 5 , 1993 ( ; 29 U.S.C . sec . 2601 ; 29 CFR 825  ) और it took प्रभाव on अगस्त 5 , 1993 , छह महीने  later .
The FMLA was intended `` to balance  the मांगे of the कार्यस्थल साथ the needs  of families . ''
The Act allows eligible employees to take up to 12 work weeks of unpaid leave during any 12-month period to  attend to the गंभीर स्वास्थ्य कंडीशन of the कर्मचारी , जनक , जीवनसाथी  or child , or for pregnancy or care of a newborn child , or for adoption or foster care of a child .
In order to be  योग्य लिये fmla छोड़ , an कर्मचारी जरूर have महरूम at the कारोबार at तनिक 12 महीने  , and worked at least 1,250 hours over the past 12 months , and work at a location where the company employs 50 or more employees within 75 miles .
The FMLA covers both public- and private-sector employees , but  निश्चित श्रेणी of कर्मचारी हैं excluded , सहित  elected officials and their personal staff members .
The Vietnam War ( )  थी a ठंडा युद्ध -era सैन्य विरोध  that occurred in Vietnam , Laos , and Cambodia from 1 November 1955 to the fall of Saigon on 30 April 1975 .
This war followed the First Indochina War and was fought  between उत्तर वियतनाम , समर्थित by इसके कम्युनिस्ट allies , और the सरकारी of दक्षिण वियतनाम , समर्थित by  the United States and other anti-communist countries .
The Viet  cong ( भी ज्ञात as the नेशनल मुक्ति सामने , or nlf ) , a हलके हथियारबंद दक्षिण वियतनामी कम्युनिस्ट  common front directed by the North , largely fought a guerrilla war against anti-communist forces in the region .
The Vietnam People 's Army ( North Vietnamese Army ) engaged in a more conventional war , at  टाइम्स committing विशाल इकाई into बैटल  .
U.S. and South Vietnamese forces relied on air  बड़प्पन और overwhelming firepower to conduct ढूंढें और नष्ट परिचालन  , involving ground forces , artillery , and airstrikes .
The  u.S. सरकारी viewed भागीदारी in the युद्ध as a रास्ता to prevent a  communist takeover of South Vietnam as part of their wider strategy of containment .
The North Vietnamese government and  viet cong यहूद लड़ to reunify  Vietnam under communist rule .
They viewed the conflict as a colonial war , fought initially against France , backed by the  u.S. , और बाद विरूद्ध दक्षिण वियतनाम , जिससे it regarded as a u.S. कठपुतली राज्य  .
American military advisors arrived in what was  तब फ्रेंच इंडोचायना शुरूआत  in 1950 .
U.S. involvement escalated in the early  1960s , साथ troop स्तर tripling in 1961  and tripling again in 1962 .
U.S. combat units  यहूद तैनात  beginning in 1965 .
Operations spanned international borders  , साथ लाओस और कंबोडिया  heavily bombed .
American involvement in the war peaked in  1968 , at the समय of the  Tet Offensive .
After this , U.S. ground forces were gradually withdrawn  as भाग of a नीति ज्ञात as vietnamization  .
Despite the Paris Peace Accords , signed by  सब पार्टियों in जनवरी  1973 , fighting continued .
U.S. military involvement  ended on 15 अगस्त 1973 as a परिणाम of the case–church  Amendment passed by the U.S. Congress .
the कैप्चर of साइगॉन by the वियतनाम लोगों 's फौज in अप्रैल  1975 marked the end of the war , and North and South Vietnam were reunified the following year .
The war  exacted a विशाल इंसान लागत in  terms of fatalities ( see Vietnam War casualties ) .
Estimates of the number of Vietnamese soldiers and civilians  मारे vary इससे 800,000  to 3.1 million .
Some  200,000–300,000 cambodians , 20,000–200,000  Laotians , and 58,220 U.S. service members also died in the conflict .
Cleveland Volcano in the  aleutian आइलैंड्स of अलास्का photographed  from the International Space Station , May 2006 .
Ash plumes reached a height  of 19 km दौरान the climactic फटना  at Mount Pinatubo , Philippines in 1991 .
A volcano is  an खोलने , or rupture , in a ग्रह 's सतह or क्रस्ट , जिससे  allows hot magma , volcanic ash and gases to escape from the magma chamber below the surface .
Volcanoes are generally found where tectonic  प्लेटों हैं diverging or converging  .
A mid-oceanic ridge , for example the Mid-Atlantic Ridge , has examples of volcanoes caused by divergent tectonic plates  pulling अलावा ; the प्रशांत रिंग of आग रै उदाहरण of ज्वालामुखी caused by अभिसारी tectonic  plates coming together .
By contrast  , ज्वालामुखी हैं प्रायः नहीं निर्मित जहाँ दो tectonic  plates slide past one another .
Volcanoes can also form where there is  stretching और thinning of the धरती 's क्रस्ट in the इंटीरियर्स of प्लेटों , e.g. , in  the East African Rift , the Wells Gray-Clearwater volcanic field and the Rio Grande Rift in North America .
This type of volcanism falls under the  छतरियाँ of `` थाली  hypothesis '' volcanism .
Volcanism away from  थाली सीमाएँ रै भी  been explained as mantle plumes .
These so-called `` hotspots `` , for example Hawaii , are  postulated to उठता इससे upwelling diapirs साथ मैग्मा इससे the  core–mantle boundary , 3,000 km deep in the Earth .
Erupting volcanoes can pose  अनेक जोखिमों , नहीं तभी in the तात्कालिक  vicinity of the eruption .
Volcanic ash can be a threat to aircraft , in particular those with jet engines where  राख अणु can be melted by the ऊँची ऑपरेटिंग  temperature .
Large eruptions can affect temperature  as राख और droplets of sulfuric एसिड अस्पष्ट the सूर्य और कूल the धरती 's निम्नतर माहौल  or troposphere ; however , they also absorb heat radiated up from the Earth , thereby warming the stratosphere .
Historically , so-called  volcanic सर्दियों have caused  catastrophic famines .
A deep pothole  on नई यॉर्क नगर 's दूसरी  Avenue
A pothole ( sometimes called a kettle and known in parts of the Western United States as a chuckhole ) is a type of  disruption in the सतह of a roadway जहाँ a portion of the सड़क सामग्री रै टूटा  away , leaving a hole .
Renal cell carcinoma ( RCC , also known as hypernephroma ) is a kidney cancer that originates in the lining of the proximal convoluted tubule , the very small tubes in  the गुर्दा कि हस्तांतरण gf ( glomerular filtrate ) इससे the glomerulus to the descending limb of the  nephron .
RCC is the most common type of  गुर्दा कर्कट in वयस्कों , जिम्मेदार लिये  approximately 80 % of cases .
It is also known to be the most  lethal of सब the genitourinary  tumors .
Initial  उपचार is सबसे commonly a कट्टरपंथी or  partial nephrectomy and remains the mainstay of curative treatment .
Where the tumor is confined to the renal parenchyma  , the 5-year अस्तित्व रेट is 60-70 % , लकिन इस is lowered considerably जहाँ  metastases have spread .
It is relatively  resistant to विकिरण  therapy and chemotherapy , although some cases respond to immunotherapy .
Targeted cancer therapies such as sunitinib ,  temsirolimus , bevacizumab , interferon-alpha  , and sorafenib have improved the outlook for RCC .
Estée  lauder कंपनियाँ , inc. is a निर्माता और marketer of प्रतिष्ठा  skincare , makeup , fragrance and hair care products .
The company  रै इसके मुख्यालय  in Midtown Manhattan , New York City .
The  peritoneum ( ) is the serous झिल्ली कि फ़ॉर्म the अस्तर of the  abdominal cavity or the coelom —it covers most of the intra-abdominal ( or coelomic ) organs—in amniotes and some invertebrates ( annelids , for instance ) .
It is composed of a layer  of mesothelium समर्थित by a पतला परत of संयोजी  tissue .
the peritoneum दोनो supports the  abdominal organs and serves as a conduit for their blood and lymph vessels and nerves .
The abdominal  गुहा ( the स्पेस bounded by the vertebrae , abdominal मांसपेशियां , diaphragm और श्रोणि मंजिल ) चाहिए  not be confused with the intraperitoneal space ( located within the abdominal cavity , but wrapped in peritoneum ) .
The structures within the intraperitoneal space are called `` intraperitoneal '' ( e.g . the stomach ) , the structures in the abdominal cavity that are located behind the intraperitoneal space  हैं पुकारा `` retroperitoneal `` ( e.g . the गुर्दे ) , और those structures  below the intraperitoneal space are called `` subperitoneal '' or `` infraperitoneal '' ( e.g . the bladder ) .
Modern 2.5 '' SSD used in consumer  लैपटॉप और डेस्कटॉप कंप्यूटर  .
DDR  sdram आधारित  SSD .
अधिकतम  and .
PCI  संलग्न io त्वरक  SSD
PCI-E ,  dram , और नन्द आधारित  SSD .
It uses an external power supply  to मेक the dram  non-volatile .
A solid-state drive ( SSD ) ( also known as a solid-state disk or electronic disk , though it contains no actual ``  डिस्क '' of कोई दयालु ) is a आंकड़ा भंडार यंत्र using एकीकृत सर्किट सभाओं as  memory to store data persistently .
SSD technology uses electronic  अंतरफलक संगत साथ परंपरागत ब्लाक input/output ( i/o  ) hard disk drives .
SSDs have no moving mechanical components , which distinguish them from traditional electromechanical magnetic disks such as  मुश्किल डिस्क ड्राइव ( hdds ) or फ्लॉपी डिस्क , जिससे contain घूम डिस्क और  movable read/write heads .
Compared with electromechanical disks , SSDs  हैं typically कम susceptible  to physical shock , much quieter , have lower access time , and less latency .
however , जबकि the दाम of ssds रै जारी to  decline in 2012 , SSDs are still about 7 to 8 times more expensive per unit of storage than HDDs .
Many SSDs use I/O interfaces developed for hard disk drives , thus permitting simple  बदलना in आम अनुप्रयोग  .
, most SSDs use NAND-based flash  मेमोरी , जिससे retains  data without power .
For  अनुप्रयोग requiring तेज़ अभिगम , लकिन नहीं necessarily आंकड़ा हठ बाद शक्ति  loss , SSDs may be constructed from random-access memory ( RAM ) .
Such devices may employ separate power sources , such as batteries  , to maintain आंकड़ा बाद शक्ति घाटा  .
Hybrid drives or solid  राज्य संकर ड्राइव ( sshd ) combine the सुविधाएँ of ssds और hdds in the वही ईकाई , containing  a large hard disk drive and an SSD cache to improve performance of frequently accessed data .
These  डिवाइस may प्रस्ताव near-ssd  performance for many applications .
Salmon roe ( left ) and  sturgeon caviar ( सही ) परोसा साथ माँ of पर्ल  caviar spoons to avoid tainting the taste of the caviar .
Ossetra  caviar , सामन creme fraiche ,  potato shallot croquette , basil oil , egg whites and yolks
Caviar , according to the Food and Agriculture  संगठन , is a उत्पाद बना  from salt-cured fish-eggs of the Acipenseridae family .
The roe can be `` fresh '' ( non-pasteurized ) or pasteurized ,  साथ pasteurization reducing इसके culinary और आर्थिक  value .
Traditionally the  पद caviar refers तभी to roe इससे  wild sturgeon in the Caspian and Black Seas ( Beluga , Ossetra and Sevruga caviars ) .
Depending on the country , caviar may also be used to describe the roe of other fish such as salmon , steelhead ,  ट्राउट , lumpfish , whitefish , और अन्य  species of sturgeon .
caviar is माना a लक्ज़री  delicacy and is eaten as a garnish or a spread .
In 2012 , caviar  बेची लिये $ 2,500  per pound , or $ 3,000 to $ 5,500 per kilo .
The SEC Network is a television syndication  संजाल featuring सजीव प्रसारण of कॉलेज फ़ुटबॉल और बास्केट  events from the Southeastern Conference .
It is owned and operated by ESPN Plus and  is दिखाया in अधिक than 50 प्रतिशत of households in the संयुक्त राज्य  , mostly Southeastern United States markets .
The SEC Network typically airs in the noon eastern slot  कि थी पूर्व घर to the raycom खेल सेक खेल  of the week .
Games are shown locally on broadcast stations , regional  खेल संजाल , as खूब  as on ESPN GamePlan , ESPN Full Court , and ESPN3.com .
The SEC Network is also  उपलब्धियाँ in कनाडा via अटलांटा  's WPCH-TV .
The SEC Network uses the  वही on-screen ग्राफिक्स फिलहाल प्रयुक्त  by ESPN on ABC , a version of ESPN 's graphics package .
SEC Network 's football programming still uses a title safe area because most of its affiliates do not  letterbox उनके मानक परिभाषा फ़ीड्स , जबकि ईएसपीएन 's टेलीविज़न संजाल have अनुमत उनके ग्राफिक्स  to abandon the title safe , but letterbox for SD viewers .
starting साथ the सेक 2012 बास्केट ऋतु  , SEC Network 's graphics have been converted to a 16:9 Widescreen-only format .
This is also being used for  the 2013 बास्केट ऋतु , लकिन था स्टिल  adapted the former 4:3-safe graphics format for the 2012 SEC football season .
The 1990s , pronounced and also known as `` the  nineteen-nineties '' or abbreviated as `` the nineties '' or ``  the '90s '' , was a decade that began on January 1 , 1990 , and ended on December 31 , 1999 .
It was the 10th and last decade of the 20th century and the 100th  और पिछला दशक of the 2nd मिलेनियम  .
The decade is best known for the end of the Cold War at the beginning of  the दशक और the विस्तार और व्यावसायीकरण  of the Internet during the second half of the decade .
In much of the West the 1990s is remembered as a period of unprecedented peace and prosperity , though many parts of the so-called Third World faced various problems  सहित नरसंहार , एड्स और नई or continuing जातीय तनाव और सिविल युद्धों  .
Culturally speaking the  दशक थी characterized  by the rise of multiculturalism and alternative media .
Movements such as  grunge , the रेव झाँकी और हिप हॉप स्प्रेड around the संसार  to young people during the decade , aided by then-new technology such as cable television and the Internet .
A combination of factors , including the mass mobilization of capital markets through neoliberalism , the beginning of the widespread  अप्रसार of नई मीडिया ऐसे as the अंतरजाल , और the विच्छेद of the सोवियत संघ led to a realignment और reconsolidation of आर्थिक और राजनैतिक  power across the world , and within countries .
Income inequality among countries in the world rose  sharply between the 1980s और the mid-1990s , पहले levelling बंद और  then falling after 2000 .
New ethnic conflicts  उभरा in अफ़्रीकी , the balkans और the काकेशस , the पूर्व  two which led to the Rwandan genocide and Bosnian genocide , respectively .
The United States began its current  सैन्य occupation of  the Middle East during the summer of 1990 with Desert Shield after it cut off a large portion of the world 's petroleum supply .
Signs of any resolution of tensions between Israel  और the अरब संसार remained elusive , हालांकि the आयरिश परेशानियों आए to a standstill  in 1998 with the Good Friday Agreement after 30 years of violence .
The gray wolf or grey wolf ( Canis lupus ) is a species of canid native to the  wilderness और रिमोट क्षेत्रों of उत्तर अमेरिका , यूरेशिया , और उत्तर अफ़्रीकी .
It is the largest  सदस्य of इसके परिवार , साथ males  averaging , and females .
It is  समान in सामान्य रूप और proportions to a जर्मनी गड़रिये , or  sled dog , but has a larger head , narrower chest , longer legs , straighter tail and bigger paws .
Its winter fur is long and bushy , and predominantly a mottled gray in colour ,  हालांकि nearly pure श्वेत , रेड , or भूरा to ब्लैक भी occur  .
Within the genus Canis , the gray wolf represents a more specialised and progressive form than its smaller cousins ( the coyote and golden jackal ) , as  demonstrated by इसके morphological adaptations to शिकार विशाल शिकार , इसके अधिक मिलनसार प्रकृति और इसके अत्यधिक  advanced expressive behavior .
It  is a सोशल एनिमल  , travelling in nuclear families consisting of a mated pair , accompanied by the pair 's adult offspring .
The gray  भेड़िया is typically an apex परभक्षी throughout इसके दायरा  , with only humans and tigers posing a serious threat to it .
It feeds primarily on large  ungulates , हालांकि it भी eats छोटी  animals , livestock , carrion , and garbage .
The gray wolf is one of the world 's most well researched animals  , साथ संभवतः अधिक किताबे लिखा परिचय it  than any other wildlife species .
It has a long history of association with humans , having been despised and hunted in most agricultural communities due to its attacks on livestock , while  conversely होने आदरणीय by कुछ देशी अमरीकी  tribes .
It is the sole  पूर्वज of the श्वान , जिससे थी  first domesticated in the Middle East .
Although the fear of wolves is prevalent in many human societies , the  बहुमत of अंकित हमले on लोगों  have been attributed to animals suffering from rabies .
Non-rabid wolves have attacked and  मारे लोगों , मुख्यतः children , लकिन इस is असामान्य , as भेड़ियों  are relatively few , live away from people , and have been taught to fear humans by hunters and shepherds .
Hunting and trapping has reduced the species ' range to , though its still relatively widespread range and stable population means that the species is not  threatened at a वैश्विक स्तर , और is इसलिए वर्गीकृत by the आईयूसीएन as तनिक  Concern .
The Roman  साम्राज्य ( ) थी the post- रिपब्लिकन काल of the प्राचीन रोमन सभ्यता , characterised by an निरंकुश  form of government and large territorial holdings around the Mediterranean in Europe , Africa , and Asia .
The  500-year-old रोमन गणतंत्र , जिससे preceded it  , had been destabilized through a series of civil wars .
Several events marked the transition from Republic to Empire , including Julius Caesar 's appointment as perpetual dictator ( 44 BC ) ; the Battle of  actium ( 31 bc ) ; और the granting of the honorific augustus to octavian by the रोमन सीनेट ( 27 bc )  .
The first two centuries of the  साम्राज्य यहूद a काल of unprecedented  stability and prosperity known as the Pax Romana ( `` Roman Peace '' ) .
It reached its greatest expanse during the reign of  त्राजान ( 98–117  AD ) .
In the 3rd century , the Empire underwent a crisis that threatened  इसके अस्तित्व , लकिन थी reunified और stabilized अंतर्गत  the emperors Aurelian and Diocletian .
Christians rose to power in the 4th century , during which time a system of dual  नियम थी विकसित in the लैटिन वेस्ट और यूनानी ईस्ट  .
After  the पतन of सेंट्रल सरकारी in the वेस्ट in the  5th century , the eastern half continued as what would later be known as the Byzantine Empire .
Because of the Empire 's vast extent and  long सहनशीलता , the संस्थानों और संस्कृति of रोम था a profound और स्थायी influence on the विकास of भाषा , धर्म , वास्तुकला , दर्शनशास्त्र , विधि , और फ़ॉर्म of सरकारी in the territory it governed  , particularly Europe , and by means of European expansionism throughout the modern world .
Education in the United States is mainly provided by the public sector , with  कंट्रोल और funding  coming from three levels : local , state , and federal , in that order .
Child education is compulsory , and there are also a large number and wide variety of higher education  संस्थानों throughout the देश कि एक can चुनें to attend , दोनो सरेआम  and privately administered .
Public  शिक्षा is universally  available .
School curricula  , funding , शिक्षण , नियुक्ति , और अन्य नीतियों हैं नियत through locally निर्वाचित  school boards with jurisdiction over school districts with many directives from state legislatures .
School districts  हैं प्रायः पृथक इससे अन्य  local jurisdictions , with independent officials and budgets .
Educational  मानकों और  standardized testing decisions are usually made by state governments .
the आयु लिये अनिवार्य  education vary by state .
It  begins इससे आयु पाँच to आठ और ends  from ages fourteen to eighteen .
Compulsory education requirements can generally be satisfied by educating children in  पब्लिक स्कूलों , state-certified  private schools , or an approved home school program .
In most public and private schools , education is divided into three levels : elementary school , middle school (  sometimes पुकारा जूनियर ऊँची स्कूल ) , और ऊँची स्कूल ( sometimes referred to as द्वितीयक शिक्षा  ) .
In almost all schools at these levels , children are divided by age groups into grades , ranging from kindergarten ( followed by first grade ) for the youngest children  in elementary स्कूल , up to बारहवीं ग्रेड , the फाइनल साल of  high school .
The exact age  दायरा of विद्यार्थी in ये ग्रेड स्तर varies  slightly from area to area .
Post-secondary education , better known as `` college `` in the United States , is generally  governed separately इससे the elementary और ऊँची  school system , and is described in a separate section below .
Government supported , free public schools for all started being established after  the क्रान्ति , और विस्तारित in the 19th सदी , as the परिणाम of  efforts of men like Horace Mann and Booker T. Washington .
By 1870 ,  सब राज्य था फ़्री elementary स्कूलों  , albeit only in urban centers .
As the 20th century drew nearer , states  प्रारंभ गुजर कानून to मेक schooling अनिवार्य  , and by 1910 , 72 percent of children attended school .
Private schools continued to spread during this time , as well as colleges  and—in the  rural centers— land grant colleges .
the साल  of 1910 also saw the first true high schools .
During the rest of the 20th century , educational efforts centered on  reducing the असमानता of the schooling  system .
The  लैंडमार्क परम् अदालत मामला भूरा v. फलक of शिक्षा बना the desegregation of elementary  and high schools a national priority , while the Pell Grant program helped poor minorities gain access to college .
Special education was made  into संघीय विधि in 1975  .
The Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 made  मानकीकृत परीक्षण a आवश्यकता , और in 1983 , a आयोग थी स्थापित to evaluate  their results and propose a course of action .
The  resulting no चाइल्ड बाएँ पीछे  Act of 2001 was controversial and its goals proved to be unrealistic .
A  आयोग स्थापित in 2006 evaluated  higher education , but its recommendations have yet to be fully implemented .
Paul Bragg  ( फ़रवरी 6 , 1895 – दिसम्बर 7 , 1976  ) , nutritionist , was a pioneer in America’s wellness movement .
Health spending per capita , in $ US  ppp-adjusted , साथ the us और कनाडा compared amongst अन्य  first world nations .
Comparison of the health care systems in  कनाडा और the संयुक्त राज्य हैं प्रायः  made by government , public health and public policy analysts .
The two countries had similar health  परवाह प्रणालियों पहले कनाडा reformed इसके प्रणाली in the 1960s  and 1970s .
The United States spends much more money on health care than Canada , on  दोनो a per-capita  basis and as a percentage of GDP .
In 2006 ,  per-capita बिता लिये स्वास्थ्य परवाह in  Canada was US $ 3,678 ; in the U.S. , US $ 6,714 .
The U.S.  खर्च 15.3 % of जीडीपी on  health care in that year ; Canada spent 10.0 % .
In 2006 , 70 % of health care spending in Canada was financed by government ,  बनाम 46 % in  the United States .
Total government spending per capita in the U.S. on health care was 23 % higher than Canadian government spending ,  और u.S. सरकारी व्यय on स्वास्थ्य परवाह थी बस अंतर्गत 83 % of कुल कनाडाई बिता ( पब्लिक और निजी ) हालांकि  these statistics do n't take into account population differences .
अध्ययन have आइये to अलग conclusions  about the result of this disparity in spending .
A 2007  पुनर्विलोकन of सब अध्ययन comparing स्वास्थ्य  outcomes in Canada and the US in a Canadian peer-reviewed medical journal found that `` health outcomes may be superior in patients cared for in Canada versus the United States , but differences are not consistent . ''
Life expectancy is longer in Canada , and its  शिशु मृत्यु रेट is निम्नतर than कि of the u.S. , लकिन  there is debate about the underlying causes of these differences .
One commonly cited comparison , the 2000 World Health Organization 's ratings of `` overall health service performance '' , which used a `` composite measure of achievement in the level of health , the distribution of health ,  the स्तर of responsiveness और निष्पक्षता of वित्तीय योगदान '' , क्रमित कनाडा 30th  and the US 37th among 191 member nations .
This study rated the US ``  responsiveness '' , or विशेषता of सेवा लिये  individuals receiving treatment , as 1st , compared with 7th for Canada .
While the average life expectancy for Canadians was 80.34 years  compared साथ 78.6 सालो लिये निवासियों of the us , बस comparing the जीवन प्रत्याशा of दो समूह साथ अलग जातिगत मेकअप और अलग मोटापा  rates is likely not an effective way of determining which healthcare system is superior .
The WHO 's study methods were  criticized by कुछ analyses  .
Although there is a measure of consensus that life-expectancy and infant mortality mark the most reliable ways to compare nation-wide  स्वास्थ्य परवाह , assuming the जनसांख्यिकी मेकअप is समान , a हाल रपट by the congressional शोध सेवा carefully summarizes  some recent data and notes the `` difficult research issues '' facing international comparisons .
The sound source has  अभी टूटा through the ध्वनि गति अवरोध  , and is traveling at 1.4 times the speed of sound , ( Mach 1.4 ) .
Since the source is moving faster ( with a speed ) than the  ध्वनि लहरें it creates , it दरअसल लीड the advancing तरंगाग्र  .
The sound source will pass by a  stationary निरीक्षक ( साथ a गति ) पहले the निरीक्षक दरअसल  hears the sound it creates .
As a  परिणाम ,  an observer in front of the source will detect
and an observer behind the  सोर्स .
A sonic  बूम उत्पादित by an वायुयान चलती  at M=2.92 , calculated from the cone angle of 20 degrees .
An observer hears the  बूम जब the शॉक वेव , on  the edges of the cone , crosses his or her location .
Mach  कोन कोण
A sonic boom is the sound associated with the shock waves created by  an ऑब्जेक्ट traveling through the एयर  faster than the speed of sound .
Sonic booms generate enormous amounts of sound  उर्जा , sounding much जैसे  an explosion .
The crack of a supersonic bullet passing overhead is an example  of a सोनिक बूम in miniature  .
The Tonight Show with Jay Leno is an American late-night talk show hosted by Jay Leno that initially aired from May 25 , 1992 to  may 29 , 2009 , और resumed  production on March 1 , 2010 .
The fourth incarnation of the Tonight Show franchise made its debut on May 25 , 1992 ,  तीन दिनों following जॉनी कार्सन 's रिटायरमेंट as मेजबान  of the program .
The program originates from NBC Studios in Burbank , California , and  is ब्रॉडकास्ट सोमवार through शुक्रवार at 11:35 pm in the पूर्वी और  Pacific time zones ( 10:35 PM Central / Mountain time ) .
Unlike Carson or his predecessor Jack Paar ,  लीनो तभी एकबार utilized a अतिथि मेजबान , preferring  to host the series by himself .
On April 26 , 1999 , the show began broadcasting in 1080i  hdtv , बनने the पहला अमरीकी nightly बात दिखाएँ  to be shot in high definition .
the दिखाएँ is शॉट  in 16:9 aspect ratio .
The series , which followed the same basic  स्वरूप as कि of उसके पूर्ववर्तियों ( an खोलने monologue followed by कॉमेडी  routines , interviews and performances ) , ran until May 29 , 2009 , after which Leno was succeeded by Conan O'Brien .
NBC signed  लीनो to a नई सौदे  for a nightly talk show in the 10:00 pm ET timeslot .
The primetime series , titled The Jay Leno Show , debuted on September 14  , 2009 , following a समान स्वरूप to the  Leno incarnation of Tonight .
Neither  o'brien 's संस्करण  of the program , which premiered June 1 , 2009 , nor The Jay Leno Show generated the ratings that NBC had expected .
The network decided to move a condensed 30-minute version of Leno 's show to O'Brien 's time slot , and O'Brien  's tonight दिखाएँ a half-hour बाद  .
This decision met with opposition from  o'brien , जिनकी कार्यावधि on the tonight दिखाएँ ended जनवरी 22 , 2010 , बाद जिससे  he began his own talk show on TBS .
The Tonight Show with Jay Leno then began its second and  वर्तमान अवतार , the छठे of the  franchise , on March 1 , 2010 .
rfid चिप अगला  to a grain of rice .
This chip  contains a radio-frequency इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक  field coil that modulates an external magnetic field to transfer a coded identification number when queried by a reader device .
This small type is incorporated in consumer  उत्पाद , और implanted in पालतु  , for identification purposes .
Radio-frequency identification ( RFID ) is the wireless non-contact use of radio-frequency electromagnetic  फ़ील्ड to ट्रांसफ़र आंकड़ा , लिये the उद्देश्य of automatically  identifying and tracking tags attached to objects .
The tags contain  electronically भंडारित सूचना  .
Some tags are powered  और पढ़ा at छोटी सीमाएँ ( a few मीटर )  via magnetic fields ( electromagnetic induction ) .
Others use a local power source such as a battery  , or else have no बैटरी लकिन collect उर्जा इससे the interrogating em फ़ील्ड , और तब अधिनियम as a passive transponder  to emit microwaves or UHF radio waves ( i.e. , electromagnetic radiation at high frequencies ) .
Battery  संचालित टैग may operate  at hundreds of meters .
Unlike a bar code , the tag does not necessarily need to be within line  of sight of the रीडर , और may be अंतःस्थापित  in the tracked object .
RFID  टैग हैं प्रयुक्त in  many industries .
An RFID tag attached to an automobile during  उत्पादन can be प्रयुक्त to track इसके प्रगति through  the assembly line .
Pharmaceuticals can be  tracked through  warehouses .
Livestock and pets may have tags  injected , allowing धनात्मक पहचान of  the animal .
Since RFID tags can be attached to clothing , possessions , or even  implanted भीतर लोगों , the सम्भावना of  reading personally-linked information without consent has raised privacy concerns .
Id , ego  और super-ego हैं the तीन भाग of the मानसिक apparatus पारिभाषित in  Sigmund Freud 's structural model of the psyche ; they are the three theoretical constructs in terms of whose activity and interaction mental life is described .
According to this model of the psyche , the id is the set of  uncoordinated instinctual रुझान ; the super-ego plays the नाजुक और moralizing भूमिका ; और the  ego is the organized , realistic part that mediates between the desires of the id and the super-ego .
The super-ego  can रोकें तुम इससे doing निश्चित बाते कि अपना  id may want you to do .
Even though the model is structural and makes reference to an apparatus , the id , ego and super-ego are functions of the mind rather than parts of the brain and do not correspond one-to-one  साथ वास्तविक दैहिक structures of the दयालु dealt साथ by neuroscience  .
The concepts themselves arose at a late stage in the development of Freud 's thought : the `` structural model '' ( which succeeded his `` economic model '' and `` topographical model  '' ) थी पहला discussed in उसके 1920 निबन्ध `` परे the ख़ुशी principle `` और थी formalized  and elaborated upon three years later in his `` The Ego and the Id `` .
Freud  's प्रस्ताव थी बहकावे by the ambiguity of the  term `` unconscious `` and its many conflicting uses .
Air  फ़ोर्स  ROTC emblem
The Air  फ़ोर्स आरक्षित अधिकारी प्रशिक्षण corps ( afrotc ) is एक of the तीन प्राथमिक commissioning  sources for officers in the United States Air Force , the other two being the United States Air Force Academy ( USAFA ) and Air Force Officer Training School ( OTS ) .
A subordinate command of the Air University within the Air Education and Training Command ( AETC ) , AFROTC is aligned under  the jeanne M. holm  Center for Officer Accessions and Citizen Development at Maxwell AFB , Alabama .
The Holm Center , formerly known as the Air Force  अधिकारी accession और प्रशिक्षण स्कूलों ( afoats  ) , retains direct responsibility for both AFROTC and OTS .
AFROTC is the largest and oldest source of  commissioned अधिकारियों लिये the u.S. एयर फ़ोर्स  .
AFROTC 's stated  मिशन is to उपज विशेषता नेताओ  for the U.S. Air Force .
AFROTC units are located on  144 कॉलेज और विश्वविद्यालयों campuses साथ 984 अतिरिक्त संस्थानों  of higher learning participating in cross-town agreements that allow their students to attend AFROTC classes at a nearby `` host '' college or university .
According to AFOATS HQ , in 2006 , AFROTC commissioned  2,083 यूएसएएफ दूसरी lieutenants , साथ afrotc नामांकन ranging  from 23,605 in 1985 to 10,231 in 1993 , and around 13,000 enrolled today .
AFROTC units at colleges and universities are called `` detachments , '' and are typically headed by an active duty USAF officer in the rank of colonel or  लेफ्टिनेंट कर्नल जो कृत्यों as दोनो the detachment कमांडर  for USAF purposes and with the nominal title of Professor of Aerospace Studies ( PAS ) within the institution 's academic community .
Most colleges and universities will designate the AFROTC  detachment as the विभाग  of Aerospace Studies .
The PAS is assisted by three to four Assistant Professors of  aerospace अध्ययन ( apas ) , सब क्रियाशील ड्यूटी यूएसएएफ  officers in the ranks of major or captain .
Three USAF non-commissioned officers and one senior non-commissioned officer will typically provide military administrative support and are often augmented by  एक to दो civilian स्टाफ support कर्मचारी of the अकादमिक  institution .
Within AFROTC detachments , the students ( referred to as ``  cadets '' ) हैं व्यवस्थित into विंग्स , समूह , squadrons , और  flights , mirroring the USAF functional wing structure .
The AFROTC detachment 's cadet wing or cadet group is separated into two divisions : the General Military Course ( GMC ) consisting of the first two years of training , and the Professional  अधिकारी कोर्स ( poc ) consisting of the पिछला दो सालो of प्रशिक्षण  .
The AFROTC program is also divided into two training functions : the Academic Classroom Program ( Aerospace Studies classes ) and Cadet Activities ( i.e. , Leadership  प्रयोगशाला , शारीरिक  Training , and other training ) .
Paper density ( also known as  आधार वज़न और grammage ) is a पद प्रयुक्त in the गूदा और पेपर  industry and also for fabric industry to denote a measure of mass of the product per unit of area for a type of fabric , paper or paperboard .
The term `` density '' is not  प्रयुक्त in इसके परंपरागत  sense of mass per unit volume .
`` Paper density '' , rather ,  is a माप of  the area density .
पेपर उत्पाद कि let छोटी  or no light pass through ( e.g . poster board ) are considered dense or heavy .
Paper products that allow some light to pass through ( e.g .  ऊतक पेपर ) हैं माना  lightweight .
In the pulp and  पेपर उद्योग , it is आम to  set a commercial paper machine to produce paper to a target paper density .
Paper  घनत्व can भी be प्रयुक्त to फर्क पेपर इससे paperboard  as the latter usually has a grammage greater than 134 g/m2 .
Two ways of  expressing पेपर घनत्व  are commonly used:
Expressed in grams per square meter ( g/m2 ) ,  पेपर घनत्व is भी ज्ञात as grammage  .
This  is the माप  used in most parts of the world .
Expressed in terms  of the द्रव्यमान ( expressed as वज़न ) प्रति क्रमांक of चादरें , it is  known as basis weight .
The convention used in the United  राज्य और a few अन्य देशों using us पेपर आकार is पाउंड of a ream  of 500 ( or in some cases 1000 ) sheets of a given ( raw , still uncut ) basis size .
Japanese paper is  expressed as the वज़न in kg of 1000  sheets .
Candace Nicole Parker ( born April 19 , 1986 ) is an American basketball player  लिये the wnba 's लॉस एंजिल्स स्पार्क्स और ummc  Ekaterinburg of Russia .
She is the younger sister  of एनबीए खिलाड़ी  Anthony Parker .
वो attended the विश्वविद्यालयों  of Tennessee and was drafted by the Sparks in 2008 .
She may be best known for being the first woman to dunk in an NCAA  टूर्नामेंट खेल और the पहला स्त्री to डंक twice in a कॉलेज game—she नियत  both milestones as a redshirt freshman on March 19 , 2006 .
She also became only the second player  to डंक in a wnba खेल on जून  22 , 2008 .
A versatile player , she is mainly a forward , but was  सूचीबद्ध on टेनेसी 's रोस्टर  as a forward , center , and guard .
She was a  प्रारंभ on the महिला vols बास्केट  team , winners of the 2007 and 2008 NCAA championships .
Parker won the 2009 Nickelodeon Kids ' Choice award as the favorite female  खिलाड़ी in the खेल श्रेणी  .
And she was a  अतिथि स्टार on  Figure It Out .
A food guide  पिरामिड is a पिरामिड तराशा मार्गदर्शिका of स्वस्थ भोजन विभाजित into भाग  to show the recommended intake for each food group .
The first food pyramid was  प्रकाशित in स्वीडन in 1974  .
The most widely known food pyramid was introduced by the United States  विभाग of कृषि in the साल 1992 , थी अद्यतनीकृत in 2005  , and then replaced in 2011 .
Over 25 other  देशों और संगठनों  have also published food pyramids .
Hans Christian Andersen ( ; often referred to in Scandinavia as H. C. Andersen ;  अप्रैल 2 , 1805august 4 , 1875 ) थी a डैनिश  author and poet .
Although a prolific writer of plays  , travelogues , novels , और कविताएं , andersen is बेहतरीन remembered  for his fairy tales , a literary genre he so mastered that he himself has become as mythical as the tales he wrote .
Andersen 's popularity is not limited to  children ; उसके stories—called , or `` fantastic  tales '' —express themes that transcend age and nationality .
दौरान उसके आजीवन he थी  acclaimed for having delighted children worldwide and was feted by royalty .
Andersen 's fairy  किस्से , जिससे have महरूम अनूदित into अधिक than 125 भाषाएं , have become culturally अंतःस्थापित in the वेस्ट 's सामूहिक  consciousness , readily accessible to children , but presenting lessons of virtue and resilience in the face of adversity for mature readers as well .
They have  प्रेरित गति तस्वीरें  , plays , ballets , and animated films .
Two figures locking eyes in Caravaggio 's  the सौभाग्य teller
Eye contact occurs when `` two people look at each other  's आँखें at the वही समय  . ''
In human beings , eye  सम्पर्क is a रूप of अशाब्दिक संचार  and is thought to have a large influence on social behavior .
Coined in  the जल्दी to mid-1960s , the पद रै आइये in the  West to often define the act as a meaningful and important sign of confidence and social communication .
The customs  और significance of नजर सम्पर्क  vary widely between cultures , with religious and social differences often altering its meaning greatly .
The study of eye contact is  sometimes ज्ञात as oculesics  .
Bed bugs are parasitic insects of  the cimicid परिवार कि फीड  exclusively on blood .
The term most commonly refers to members of the genus Cimex of which Cimex lectularius , the common bed bug , is the best known as it prefers to feed on  इंसान रक्त हालांकि अन्य cimex प्रजाति हैं specialized to अन्य पशु , e.g. , चमगादड़ बग , C. pipistrelli  ( Europe ) , C. pilosellus ( western US ) , and C. adjunctus ( entire eastern US ) .
The name of the `` bed bug '' is  निकला इससे the पसन्दीदा आवास of cimex  lectularius : warm houses and especially nearby or inside of beds and bedding or other sleep areas .
Bed bugs are mainly  क्रियाशील at रात्रि , लकिन हैं नहीं exclusively  nocturnal .
वे प्रायः फीड on उनके  hosts without being noticed .
A number of adverse health effects may result from bed bug bites , including skin rashes ,  मनोवैज्ञानिक प्रभाव  , and allergic symptoms .
Diagnosis involves both finding bed bugs and the  occurrence of संगत लक्षण  .
Bed bugs  have महरूम ज्ञात as इंसान परजीवी  for thousands of years .
At a point in the early 1940s , they were mostly eradicated in the developed  संसार , लकिन have increased in व्यापकता  since 1995 .
क्युकी infestation of इंसान  habitats has been on the increase , bed bug bites and related conditions have been on the rise as well .
The Book of Isaiah ( ) is the first of the Latter Prophets in  the यहूदी बाइबल , preceding ezekiel , यिर्मयाह और  the Book of the Twelve .
( The order of the  subsequent किताबे differs somewhat  in the Christian Old Testament ) .
The  पहला 39 अध्याय prophesy यातना लिये a गुनाहगार यहूदा और लिये सब the राष्ट्र of the संसार कि oppose परमेश्वर , जबकि the पिछला 27 prophesy  the restoration of the nation of Israel and a new creation in God 's glorious future kingdom ; this section includes the Songs of the Suffering Servant , four separate passages referring to the nation of Israel , interpreted by Christians as prefiguring the coming of Jesus Christ .
Tradition ascribes authorship of the book to Isaiah son of Amoz , but now scholars widely agree that the book is the  कार्य of तीन अलग लेखक - few विद्वानों इनकार इस दृश्य , और those  that do , do so for theological reasons .
The first , termed Proto-Isaiah ( chapters 1–39 ) , contains the words of the 8th-century BCE prophet with 7th-century BCE expansions ; the second , Deutero-Isaiah ( chapters 40–55 ) , is the  कार्य of a 6th-century bce लेखक लिखने निकट the समाप्त of the babylonian  captivity ; and the third , the poetic Trito-Isaiah ( chapters 56–66 ) , was composed in Jerusalem shortly after the return from exile , probably by multiple authors .
Oregon State University ( OSU ) is a coeducational , public research university located  in corvallis  , Oregon , United States .
The university offers undergraduate , graduate and doctoral degrees  और a multitude of शोध अवसर  .
There  हैं अधिक than 200 अकादमिक उपाधि कार्यक्रम offered  through the university .
OSU 's programs in microbiology ,  नाभिकीय अभियान्त्रिकी , पारिस्थितिकी , वानिकी , पब्लिक स्वास्थ्य  , biochemistry , zoology , oceanography , food science and pharmacy are recognized nationally as top tier programs .
The  osu 's उदार कला कार्यक्रम have भी grown significantly  and the department is considered a `` cornerstone '' of the institution .
More than  200,000 लोगों have attended  OSU since its founding .
The Carnegie  न्यास classifies ऑरेगॉन राज्य  University as part of its top tier of research institutions .
As of 2008 ,  osu is एक  of only seventy-three land-grant universities .
The school is also  पहचाना as a sea-grant , space-grant और sun-grant संस्था , बनाना it  one of only two US institutions to retain all four designations and the only public university to do so ( Cornell is the only other with similar designations ) .
As one of the two flagship universities of the Oregon University System , OSU  receives अधिक funding लिये शोध , annually , than सब अन्य पब्लिक उच्चतर  education institutions in Oregon combined .
Female ejaculation is the expulsion of fluid by human females  इससे the paraurethral नलिकाएं through और  around the female urethra during or before an orgasm .
It is also known colloquially as gushing  or squirting , हालांकि ये हैं माना to be अलग  phenomena in some research publications .
The exact source and nature of the fluid continue to be a topic of debate among medical professionals ,  जिससे is भी सम्बन्धित to संदेह over the अस्तित्व of the g-spot  .
The Kanab ambersnail , scientific name Oxyloma haydeni  kanabensis or oxyloma kanabense  , is a critically endangered subspecies or species of small , air-breathing land snail , a terrestrial pulmonate gastropod mollusc in the family Succineidae , the amber snails .
The common name of the amber snails is based on the shell , which is  पारदर्शी और जब खाली प्रायः resembles एम्बर in  color .
This species is endemic to the United States ,  specifically the राज्य of एरिज़ोना और यूटा ,  where it was first collected in the early 20th century .
It has  महरूम सूचीबद्ध as endangered on  the United States Fish and Wildlife Service list of endangered species since 8 August 1991 .
This snail lives in wetlands , springs , and seeps , and only two of its natural habitats are known to exist : Three Lakes , a meadow  निकट kanab , यूटा , और vasey 's स्वर्ग , a वसन्त साथ the कोलोराडो  River within Grand Canyon National Park .
In its natural habitat it is rather polyphagous , feeding mainly  on जीवाणु , पौधे और fungi , और reproduces  during the summer .
Now considered a Critically Endangered  प्रजाति on the आईयूसीएन रेड सूची of threatened प्रजाति due to a श्रेणी of कारकों  ( including influence ) , the Kanab ambersnail has been reintroduced to three springs above the historic high water level along the Colorado River .
The  स्पेनी भाषा is the दूसरी  most used language in the United States .
There are more Spanish speakers in the  संयुक्त राज्य than वहीँ हैं अध्यक्षों of चाइनीज  , French , German , Italian , Hawaiian , and the Native American languages combined .
According to the 2010 American Community Survey conducted by the U.S. Census  ब्यूरो , स्पेनी is the प्राथमिक भाषा बोला at घर by लगभग 37 लाख  people aged five or older , a figure more than double that of 1990 .
There are 45 million Hispanophones who speak Spanish as a first or second language , as well as six million Spanish language students , composing the largest national Spanish-speaking community outside of  मैक्सिको और बनाना स्पेनी the रोमांस भाषा और the indo-european भाषा साथ largest क्रमांक of देशी अध्यक्षों in the  world .
Roughly half of all U.S. Spanish  अध्यक्षों भी बोलो अंग्रेज़ी `` बहुत खूब , '' आधारित  on the self-assessment Census question respondents .
The language came to the country since the 16th and 17th centuries with the arrival of Spanish colonists in areas that would later become the states of Florida , Texas , Colorado , New Mexico  , एरिज़ोना , नेवाडा , यूटा , और कैलिफ़ोर्निया और of the स्पेनी explorers - जो छान  areas of 42 states- .
Also  वेस्ट of louisiana territory थी स्पेनी between 1763 - 1800  ( year of the French recovery of territory ) , after the French and Indian War .
After of the incorporation of these states to the U.S. in first half of 19th century , the Spanish language was later reinforced by the acquisition of Puerto Rico in 1898 and by later waves  of the हिस्पैनिक करणों , मूलरूप इससे हिस्पैनिक अमेरिका , to the संयुक्त राज्य  beginning in the second half of 19th century until today .
is a Latin word that means `` thus '' or , in  लिखने , `` it थी यूँ in the सोर्स  material '' .
Sic  may भी  refer to:
Sic , Cluj , a  कम्यून in रोमानिया
SIC , the regional code  लिये सिसिली
Sic ( noise artist ) , styled as [ sic ] ,  स्टेज नाम of जेनिफर  Morris , a Canadian noise artist
Sic ( band ) is a modern Hardcore/Thrash  मेटल बैंड इससे torshavn , the पूंजी  of the Faroe Islands
`` ( sic ) '' , a song  by अमरीकी बैंड slipknot on the एल्बम  Slipknot
SIC , the initial  of मार्को simoncelli  .
SIC as an acronym  may स्टैंड  for:
SiC , Silicon carbide , a semiconducting  सामग्री , भी प्रयुक्त to  make metalworking tools
SIC ( cyclecar ) (  società इटालियाना  Cyclecars )
Standard Industrial  वर्गीकरण , a 20th-century  U.S. system for classifying industries
International Standard Industrial  वर्गीकरण a un प्रणाली  for economic activities
शेटलैंड आइलैंड्स  Council
the  स्विस interbank clearing  system
सैन isidro  Club , an Argentine rugby union club
Standing Interpretation Committee , a  कमेटी समर्पित to the निर्वचन of अंतरराष्ट्रीय  accounting standards IFRS
schwarz सूचना  criterion in the field of statistics
second-in-command  in the field of aviation
sistema interconectado  Central power grid in Chile
sociedade independente de  Comunicação ( SIC ) , a television channel in Portugal
Sea Isle City , New  जर्सी , a तटीय कस्बा in  the United States
Segmented Integer Counter mode , a mode of  आपरेशन in क्रिप्टोग्राफी
Sepang International Circuit , a high-end  racetrack कि होस्ट the मलेशियाई गोलाकार of सूत्र  1
Shanghai International Circuit , a motor  रेसिंग स्थान in शंघाई  , China
सरलीकृत निर्देशात्मक  computer , a hypothetical computer used in systems programming
SIC ( Sons Idées Couleurs ) , an  जल्दी  twentieth-century art magazine produced by French author Pierre Albert-Birot
Southeastern Illinois College , a  दो साल जूनियर कॉलेज in harrisburg  , Illinois , United States
Specific inductive capacity ,  abbreviated to sic , जिससे  is more commonly known as the relative permittivity or the dielectric constant
St Ignatius ' College ,  riverview ,  a Jesuit school in Sydney , Australia
alt=Five smiling  यंग लड़कियों in विभिन्न मुद्राएँ wearing श्वेत smocks over  thigh-length dresses of similar color to their hair .
The Tokyo  mew mew manga और दुश्मनी श्रेणी सुविधाएँ a डाल of  characters designed by Mia Ikumi .
The series takes place in Tokyo , Japan , where  पाँच adolescent लड़कियों , पुकारा mew mews , हैं infused  with the DNA of endangered species to combat aliens attempting to take over the Earth .
The manga series is followed by a short sequel  श्रेणी , टोकियो mew mew a la विधि , जिससे introduces  a new Mew Mew and a new threat .
The Mew Mews are led by the  प्रमुख अक्षर , ichigo momomiya , जिनकी पहला कार्य is to  gather the other four Mew Mews : Mint Aizawa , Lettuce Midorikawa , Pudding Fong , and Zakuro Fujiwara .
As the series progresses , Ichigo goes from having a crush on Masaya Aoyama to  बनने उसके गर्लफ्रेंड जबकि trying to छुपा उसके  secret double life from him .
The series  antagonists शामिल तीन  aliens , Kish , Pie , and Tart , and their leader , Deep Blue .
Originally from  धरती , the एलियंस यहूद मजबूर to छोड़  long ago due to deadly environmental changes .
वे have लौटे to मार the  humans , who they feel are destroying their planet , and reclaim the planet .
In a la Mode , middle school student Berry  shirayuki is introduced as the छठे mew mew और  , in the absence of Ichigo , the temporary leader of the Mew Mews .
A la Mode also introduces new set of antagonists , the Saint Rose  crusaders , a समूह of इंसान  teenagers with various psychic abilities with a desire to create their own utopia .
Led by Duke , they make several  कोशिशें to मार बेरी , आखिरकार turning the लोकल  populace against the Mew Mews .
Ikumi 's initial vision for Tokyo Mew Mew was a story called Tokyo  ब्लैक बिल्ली लड़की कि प्रदर्शित a cat-girl battling  alien invaders .
After the  स्टोरी थी transitioned to a अधिक upbeat स्टोरी of पाँच  female superheroes , the character designs were redone to have a lighter , more colorful feel .
The main series characters were praised  लिये होने a पूर्ण अनुरूप लिये the overall स्टोरी , as खूब  as for their cute appearances .
The characters introduced in a la Mode were also praised for their visual  दिखावे , लकिन criticized as होने  repeats of the original series .
The character Duke was also criticized for  having a डिज़ाइन reminiscent of the  white supremacy group , the Ku Klux Klan .
Middle Triassic marginal marine sequence of siltstones ( below ) and limestones ( above ) ,  वर्जिन गठन , southwestern यूटा ,  USA
Sedimentary rocks are  प्रकार of चट्टान कि हैं formed by the deposition  of material at the Earth 's surface and within bodies of water .
Sedimentation is  the सामूहिक नाम लिये प्रक्रियाओं कि कारण  mineral and/or organic particles ( detritus ) to settle and accumulate or minerals to precipitate from a solution .
अणु कि रूप  a sedimentary rock by accumulating are called sediment .
Before being deposited , sediment was formed by weathering and erosion in a source area , and then transported to the place of deposition by water , wind , ice , mass  गति or ग्लेशियर जिससे हैं पुकारा एजेंटों  of denudation .
The sedimentary rock cover of the continents of the Earth 's crust is extensive ,  लकिन the कुल योगदान of sedimentary रॉक्स is  estimated to be only 8 % of the total volume of the crust .
sedimentary रॉक्स हैं तभी a पतला veneer  over a crust consisting mainly of igneous and metamorphic rocks .
sedimentary रॉक्स हैं deposited in परतों  as strata , forming a structure called bedding .
The study of sedimentary rocks and rock strata provides information about the subsurface that is useful for civil engineering , for example in the  निर्माण of सड़कें , घरों , tunnels , नहरों or अन्य constructions  .
Sedimentary rocks are  भी महत्वपूर्ण स्त्रोत of प्राकृतिक संसाधन  like coal , fossil fuels , drinking water or ores .
The study of the sequence of  sedimentary चट्टान strata is the प्रमुख सोर्स  for scientific knowledge about the Earth 's history , including palaeogeography , paleoclimatology and the history of life .
the वैज्ञानिक अनुशासन कि अध्ययन the  properties and origin of sedimentary rocks is called sedimentology .
Sedimentology is both part of geology and physical geography and overlaps partly with other disciplines in the Earth sciences , such as pedology  , geomorphology , भूरसायन or संरचनात्मक  geology .
350px
Humans are born with over 270 bones , some of which fuse together into a longitudinal  अक्ष , the अक्षीय कंकाल , to जिससे the appendicular कंकाल  is attached .
Saint Patrick ( ; ; Modern ; ; c.  387 – 17 कूच c. 460 or c.  492 ) was a Romano-British Christian missionary and bishop in Ireland .
Known as the `` Apostle  of आयरलैंड '' , he is  the primary patron saint of the island along with Saints Brigid and Columba .
Two authentic letters from him survive  , इससे जिससे आइये  the only generally accepted details of his life .
When he was  परिचय 16 , he थी captured इससे उसके घर और लिया as a स्लेव to आयरलैंड , जहाँ he जिया लिये छह सालो  before escaping and returning to his family .
After becoming a cleric , he returned to northern and western  आयरलैंड as an ordained बिशप , लकिन छोटी is ज्ञात परिचय  the places where he worked .
By the seventh century , he had already come  to be revered as the संरक्षक संत of  Ireland .
Most available details of his life are from subsequent hagiographies , and these  हैं अभी नहीं स्वीकृत बगैर विस्तृत  criticism .
The Annals of Ulster state that he arrived in Ireland in 432 , ministered in Ulster around 443 ,  और died in 457 or 461 .
The text , however , distinguishes  between `` बूढ़ा पैट्रिक '' ( विचार to औसत palladius  ) and `` Patrick , archapostle of the Scots , '' who died in 492 .
The actual dates of Patrick 's life can not be fixed with certainty but , on a widespread interpretation , he was active as  a मिशनरी in आयरलैंड दौरान the दूसरी हाफ of the 5th सदी  .
He is generally credited with being  the पहला बिशप of armagh  , Primate of All Ireland .
संत पैट्रिक 's दिन is  observed on March 17 , the date of his death .
It is  मनाये दोनो अंदर और बाहर आयरलैंड ,  as both a religious and , especially outside Ireland , secular holiday .
In the dioceses of Ireland , it is both a  solemnity और a पावन दिन of दायित्व ; बाहर  Ireland , it can be a celebration of Ireland itself .
Line segments in the  सुनहरी अनुपात
A golden rectangle with longer side a and shorter side b , when placed adjacent to a square with sides of length a , will produce a similar  सुनहरी आयताकार साथ longer पक्ष a + b और shorter पक्ष  a .
This  illustrates  the relationship .
In mathematics and the arts , two quantities are in the  सुनहरी अनुपात if the अनुपात of the योग of the quantities to the larger मात्रा  is equal to the ratio of the larger quantity to the smaller one .
The figure on the  सही illustrates the ज्यामितीय  relationship .
Expressed  algebraically:
where the  यूनानी अक्षर फाई ( ) represents the  golden ratio .
Its  मान  is:
The golden ratio is also called the  सुनहरी खण्ड ( लैटिन : sectio  aurea ) or golden mean .
Other names include extreme and mean ratio , medial section , divine proportion , divine section (  लैटिन : sectio divina ) , सुनहरी proportion ,  golden cut , and golden number .
Many 20th century artists and architects have proportioned their works to approximate the golden ratio—especially in the  रूप of the सुनहरी आयताकार , in जिससे the अनुपात of the longer पक्ष to the shorter is the सुनहरी ratio—believing इस proportion to be aesthetically  pleasing ( see Applications and observations below ) .
Mathematicians since Euclid have studied the properties of the golden ratio , including its appearance in the dimensions of a  नियमित प्रस्तुतीकरण और in a सुनहरी आयताकार , जिससे can be काटें into a वर्गाकार और a छोटी आयताकार  with the same aspect ratio .
The golden  अनुपात रै भी महरूम प्रयुक्त to analyze the proportions of प्राकृतिक  objects as well as man-made systems such as financial markets , in some cases based on dubious fits to data .
North Myrtle Beach is  a तटीय रिज़ॉर्ट नगर in horry  County , South Carolina , United States .
It was created in 1968 from four existing municipalities north of  myrtle बीच , और serves as एक of the प्राथमिक  tourist towns along the Grand Strand .
The population was 13,752  at the 2010  census .
संसार युद्ध i ( wwi ) थी a वैश्विक  war centred in Europe that began on 28 July 1914 and lasted until 11 November 1918 .
It was predominantly called the World  युद्ध or the ग्रेट युद्ध इससे  its occurrence until the start of World War II in 1939 , and the First World War or World War I thereafter .
It involved all the world 's great powers , which were assembled in two opposing alliances : the Allies ( based on the Triple Entente of the United Kingdom , France and Russia ) and the Central Powers ( originally the Triple Alliance of Germany ,  austria-hungary और इटली ; लकिन , as austria–hungary  had taken the offensive against the agreement , Italy did not enter into the war ) .
These alliances were both reorganised and expanded as more  राष्ट्र डाला the युद्ध : इटली , जापानी और the संयुक्त राज्य joined the allies , और  the Ottoman Empire and Bulgaria the Central Powers .
Ultimately , more than 70 million  सैन्य कर्मियों  , including 60 million Europeans , were mobilised in one of the largest wars in history .
More than 9 million combatants were killed , largely because of  technological advancements कि led to विशाल increases  in the lethality of weapons without corresponding improvements in protection or mobility .
It  थी the fifth- deadliest विरोध in संसार इतिहास , subsequently  paving the way for various political changes , such as revolutions in many of the nations involved .
One of the long-term causes of the war was the  पुनरुत्थान of साम्राज्यवाद in the विदेशी नीतियों of the ग्रेट  powers of Europe .
More immediately , the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria , the heir to the throne of Austria-Hungary , on 28 June 1914 by Yugoslav nationalist Gavrilo Princip in Sarajevo triggered a  राजनयिक संकट जब austria-hungary subsequently वितरित an ultimatum  to the Kingdom of Serbia .
Several alliances formed over the  पिछला दशकों यहूद invoked  .
Within weeks , the major powers were at  युद्ध और , via उनके colonies , the विरोध  soon spread around the world .
On 28 July , the Austro-Hungarians fired the first shots of the war as  तैयारी लिये the आक्रमण of सर्बिया  .
While the Russians mobilised , the Germans invaded neutral Belgium and Luxembourg on the way to France , providing a  casus belli लिये ब्रिटेन 's घोषणा of युद्ध विरूद्ध जर्मनी  .
After the German march on Paris was brought to a halt—the so-called  चमत्कार of the marne —the पश्चिमी सामने settled into  a static battle of attrition with a trench line that changed little until 1917 .
on the पूर्वी सामने , the रूसी  army was successful against the Austro-Hungarians , but was stopped in its invasion of East Prussia by the Germans .
In November the Ottoman Empire joined  the युद्ध , खोलने up fronts in the काकेशस  , Mesopotamia and the Sinai .
Italy and  बुल्गारिया गई to युद्ध in 1915 और  Romania in 1916 .
In Russia , the tsar 's government collapsed in March  1917 और a subsequent क्रान्ति in नवम्बर brought  the Russians to terms with the Central Powers .
After a 1918 German  अप्रिय साथ the पश्चिमी सामने , the allies drove  back the Germans in a series of successful offensives and American forces began entering the trenches .
Germany , which had its own trouble with revolutionaries , agreed to an  armistice on 11 नवम्बर 1918  .
The war ended in victory  लिये the allies  .
Events on the home fronts were as tumultuous as on the battle fronts , as the  भागीदार आजमाया to mobilize उनके जनशक्ति और आर्थिक संसाधन  to fight a total war .
By the end of the war , four major imperial powers—the German , Russian , Austro-Hungarian and  उस्मानी empires—ceased to मौजूद  .
The successor states of the former two lost a great amount of territory ,  जबकि the latter दो यहूद dismantled  entirely .
The map of central Europe  थी redrawn into अनेक  smaller states .
The League of Nations was formed in the hope  of preventing  another such conflict .
The European nationalism spawned by the war and the breakup of empires , the repercussions of Germany 's defeat  और समस्याएं साथ the सन्धि of versailles हैं सहमत to be कारकों contributing  to World War II .
Camden is a city in  camden काउंटी , नई  Jersey , United States .
It is the county seat , located across the Delaware River from  फिलाडेल्फिया  .
As of the 2010 United States Census the city had  a कुल जनसांख्यिकी of 77,344 , representing a मनाही of 2,560 ( 3.2 % ) इससे the 79,904 निवासियों  enumerated during the 2000 Census , which had in turn declined by 7,588 ( 8.7 % ) from the 87,492 counted in the 1990 Census .
Camden ranked as the  12th-most populous नगरपालिका in the राज्य in 2010 बाद having  been ranked 10th in 2000 .
Camden was originally incorporated as a city  on फ़रवरी 13 , 1828 , इससे portions of the  now-defunct Newton Township , while the area was still part of Gloucester County .
On  कूच 13 , 1844 ,  Camden became part of the newly formed Camden County .
हालांकि एकबार a thriving बीच लिये निर्माण  and industry , Camden is perhaps best known for its struggles with urban dysfunction .
Three Camden mayors have been jailed for  भ्रष्टाचार , the सबसे हाल होने मिल्टन मिलान  in 2000 .
Since 2005 the school  प्रणाली और पुलिस विभाग have महरूम  operated by the state of New Jersey ; the takeover expired in 2012 .
In 2008 ,  camden था the उच्चतम अपराधों रेट in the u.S. साथ 2,333  violent crimes per 100,000 people while the national average was 455 per 100,000 .
Camden public schools spent $ 23,770 per student ( $ 19,118 on a budgetary  per-pupil आधार ) in the 2009–10 स्कूल  year and two-thirds of the students graduate .
Two out of  प्रत्येक पाँच निवासियों हैं नीचे the  national poverty line .
amitriptyline ( tryptomer , elavil , tryptizol , laroxyl , saroten , sarotex  , Lentizol , Endep ) is a tricyclic antidepressant ( TCA ) .
It is the most widely used TCA and  रै at तनिक बराबर efficacy विरूद्ध अवसाद as the नए क्लास of ssris  according to a study from early 2001 .
As well as reducing depressive symptoms , these types of tricyclics also ease migraines ,  टेंशन headaches , चिंता हमले और कुछ schizophrenic  symptoms .
It  is भी ज्ञात to reduce  aggression and violent behavior .
A  कंप्यूटर is a सामान्य purpose यंत्र कि can  be programmed to carry out a finite set of arithmetic or logical operations .
Since a sequence of  परिचालन can be readily बदला , the कंप्यूटर can  solve more than one kind of problem .
Conventionally , a computer consists of at least one processing element , typically a central processing  ईकाई ( cpu ) और कुछ रूप of  memory .
The processing element carries out arithmetic and logic operations , and a sequencing and control unit that can change the  अनुक्रम of परिचालन आधारित on भंडारित सूचना .
Peripheral devices allow information to be retrieved from an  बाह्य सोर्स , और the परिणाम of परिचालन saved  and retrieved .
The first  इलेक्ट्रॉनिक डिजिटल कंप्यूटर  were developed between 1940 and 1945 in the United Kingdom and United States .
originally वे यहूद the आकार of a विशाल रूम  , consuming as much power as several hundred modern personal computers ( PCs ) .
In this era mechanical analog computers were used for military  अनुप्रयोग  .
Modern computers based on integrated circuits are millions to billions  of टाइम्स अधिक सक्षम than the जल्दी मशीने , और occupy a भिन्न of  the space .
Simple computers  हैं छोटी पर्याप्त to  fit into mobile devices , and mobile computers can be powered by small batteries .
Personal computers in their various forms are icons of the  सूचना आयु और हैं कया सबसे लोगों सोचो of as  “computers.”
However , the embedded computers found in many devices from MP3 players to fighter  वायुयान और इससे खिलौने to औद्योगिक robots हैं the सबसे numerous  .
`` Barefoot and pregnant '' is a phrase most commonly associated with the controversial idea that women should not  कार्य बाहर the घर और चाहिए have अनेक children दौरान उनके reproductive  years .
It has several  अन्य meanings  as well .
it is a फिगर  of speech .
The phrase `` barefoot and  गर्भवती '' थी संभवतः पहला प्रयुक्त  sometime before 1950 .
An article from 1949  राज्य , `` by जल्दी 1949 , twa was—in the शब्द of इसके नई  president , Ralph S. Damon—both 'barefoot and pregnant . ' ''
Its usage may  तिथि as जल्दी  as the 1910s .
An  आलेख प्रकाशित  in 1958 states the phrase was first used by a `` Dr. Hertzler '' 40 years earlier .
`` Some forty years ago , Dr. Hertzler  उन्नत a परिकल्पना जिससे यंग महिलाओं of आज  seem bent on proving correct. '
The only way to keep a woman happy , ' he said  , 'is to रखना उसके barefoot और गर्भवती  . ' ''
Oakhurst  is a census-designated प्लेस और unincorporated  community within Ocean Township , in Monmouth County , New Jersey , United States .
As of the  2010 संयुक्त राज्य  Census , the CDP 's population was 3,995 .
University of Phoenix Stadium , opened August 1 , 2006 , is a  बहुउद्देशीय फ़ुटबॉल स्टेडियम स्तिथ in ग्लेनडेल  , Arizona .
It is  the घर of the एरिज़ोना कार्डिनल्स  of the National Football League ( NFL ) and the annual Fiesta Bowl .
The stadium is located  अगला द्वार to the jobing.com एरिना और it सुविधाएँ the पहला fully retractable प्राकृतिक  grass playing surface built in the United States on top of an AirField Systems drainage system .
An opening on one side of the stadium allows the playing field to move to the exterior of the building , allowing the entire natural turf  playing सतह to be उजागर to daylight  .
The stadium has hosted Super Bowl XLII , and the 2011  bcs नेशनल चैंपियनशिप खेल , a खेल कि it होस्ट प्रत्येक चार सालो , जिससे नियत the स्थान  's entertainment attendance record of 78,603 on January 11 , 2011 .
It will again host Super  कटोरी xlix in 2015  .
The University of Phoenix acquired the naming  अधिकारों in सितंबर 2006 , shortly बाद the  stadium had opened under the name Cardinals Stadium .
The `` University of  फीनिक्स `` नाम is लागू as a कॉरपोरेट प्रायोजक , और नहीं as the घर स्टेडियम of the विश्वविद्यालयों  ( which has no intercollegiate athletics program ) .
the स्टेडियम रै भी  hosted the WWE event WrestleMania XXVI with 72,219 fans in attendance .
The event was held in the  स्टेडियम on कूच 28th  2010 .
Joshua Lawrence Chamberlain ( September 8 , 1828  – फ़रवरी 24 , 1914 ) , born as लॉरेंस जोशुआ चेम्बरलेन , थी an अमरीकी  college professor from the State of Maine , who volunteered during the American Civil War to join the Union Army .
Although having no earlier education in military strategies , he became a highly respected and  सजा संघ अधिकारी , reaching the  rank of brigadier general ( and brevet major general ) .
For his gallantry at Gettysburg ,  he थी awarded the पदक of  Honor .
He was given the honor of commanding the Union troops at the surrender ceremony for the infantry of Robert E.  ली 's फौज at appomattox , वर्जिनिया  .
After the war , he entered politics  as a रिपब्लिकन और परोसा चार one-year शर्तें of दफ्तर as the 32nd  Governor of Maine .
He served on the faculty , and as president ,  of उसके अल्मा मेटर ,  Bowdoin College .
An inning , or  पारी , is a fixed-length खण्ड of a खेल  in any of a variety of sports – most notably cricket and baseball during which one team attempts to score while the other team attempts to prevent the first from scoring .
In cricket , the term innings is both singular and  बहुवचन और is सदा spelled और सुनाया साथ the टर्मिनल  `` s '' .
In baseball and softball , the  एकवचन रूप is inning और तभी the बहुवचन  takes an `` s '' .
In many other  खेल , the लंबाई of the खेल is लिखवाई by a क्लॉक और टीमों स्वैप अप्रिय और  defensive roles dynamically by taking possession of a ball or similar item .
In baseball and cricket , however , one team , said to be `` batting '' , attempts to score `` runs '' —see run (  बेसबॉल ) और चलाएं ( क्रिकेट ) —while the अन्य टोली , कहा to be `` क्षेत्ररक्षण  '' , attempts to prevent the scoring of runs and get members of the batting team out .
The teams switch  स्थान बाद the क्षेत्ररक्षण टोली रै  succeeded in getting a fixed number of players out , making a clock unnecessary .
In cricket , the term innings is also  प्रयुक्त to refer to the खेल of एक particular  player ( Smith had a poor innings , scoring only 12 ) .
By extension , this term  can be प्रयुक्त in अंग्रेजों अंग्रेज़ी लिये लगभग कोई कार्यकलाप जिससे takes a काल of समय  ( The Liberal government had a good innings , but finally lost office in 1972 , or You 've had a fair innings , now it 's my turn , meaning `` you have spoken for long enough , now let me speak '' ) .
It is also used in reference to someone who has  died at a reasonably बूढ़ा आयु  or lived a rich and rewarding life ( Ah , well .
जॉन थी 89  .
At  तनिक he था a शुभ पारी  ) .
The baseball-derived parallel to  इस in अमरीकी अंग्रेज़ी  is the term at bat .
According  to the ऑक्सफोर्ड अंग्रेज़ी शब्दकोष , the  term innings has been used in reference to cricket since at least 1735 .
As cricket was a mature  , अत्यधिक व्यवस्थित खेल in the 1600s in इंग्लैण्ड , the पद 's  origin could well precede this first recorded usage .
The word inning meaning 'a gathering in ' is  पहला अंकित in  1522 , and could be related .
Adenosine deaminase deficiency , also called ADA deficiency or  ada-scid , is an autosomal recessive metabolic विकार कि  causes immunodeficiency .
It occurs in fewer than one in  100,000 सजीव births विश्वव्यापी  .
It accounts for about 15 % of all cases of  कठोर संयुक्त immunodeficiency  ( SCID ) .
It is very rare ,  तुम have a  3 % chance of getting this gene .
ADA deficiency may be  उपस्थित in शैशव , बाल्यकाल  , adolescense , or adulthood .
Age of  onset और गंभीरता is सम्बन्धित to  some 29 known genotypes associated with the disorder .
An  उदाहरण of शहरी  poverty in this slum in Jakarta , Indonesia
Poverty  is the राज्य of एक जो lacks a निश्चित  amount of material possessions or money .
Absolute poverty  or destitution refers to the पिछडे of मौलिक इंसान needs , जिससे  commonly includes food , water , sanitation , clothing , shelter , health care and education .
Relative  गरीबी is पारिभाषित contextually as आर्थिक असमानता  in the location or society in which people live .
For much of history , poverty was considered largely unavoidable as traditional modes of  उत्पादन यहूद अपर्याप्त to  give an entire population a comfortable standard of living .
After the industrial revolution , mass production in  कारखानों बना माल increasingly अधिक inexpensive और  accessible .
Of more  महत्व is the modernization of कृषि  , such as fertilizers , in order to provide enough yield to feed the population .
The supply of basic needs can be restricted by constraints on  सरकारी सेवाएं ऐसे as भ्रष्टाचार , कर avoidance , कर्ज़ और ऋण conditionalities और by the दिमाग नाली  of health care and educational professionals .
रणनीति of increasing आय to  make basic needs more affordable typically include welfare , economic freedoms , and providing financial services .
Poverty reduction is a major goal  और समस्या लिये अनेक अंतरराष्ट्रीय संगठन ऐसे  as the United Nations and the World Bank .
the संसार बैंको अनुमानित 1.29  billion people were living in absolute poverty in 2008 .
Of these , about 400 million people in  निरपेक्ष गरीबी जिया  in India and 173 million people in China .
In USA 1 in 5  children जीवनदान in गरीबी  .
in शर्तें of प्रतिशत of  regional populations , sub-Saharan Africa at 47 % had the highest incidence rate of absolute poverty in 2008 .
Between 1990 and 2010 , about 663  लाख लोगों स्थानांतरित ऊपर  the absolute poverty level .
Still , extreme poverty is a global challenge ; it  is observed in सब भाग of the संसार , सहित the  developed economies .
Mushroom poisoning  ( भी ज्ञात as mycetism ) refers to नुकसानदेह  effects from ingestion of toxic substances present in a mushroom .
These symptoms can vary  इससे पतला जठरांत्र तकलीफ  to death .
The toxins present are secondary metabolites produced  in विशिष्ट biochemical pathways in the  fungal cells .
Mushroom poisoning is usually the result of ingestion of wild  मशरूम बाद misidentification of a विषाक्त  mushroom as an edible species .
The most common reason for this misidentification is close resemblance in terms of  रंग और सामान्य morphology of the  toxic mushrooms species with edible species .
Even very experienced wild mushroom gatherers are upon  विरल अवसर poisoned by खाने विषाक्त प्रजाति , despite होने  well aware of the risks , through carelessness .
To prevent mushroom  विषाक्तता , मशरूम gatherers need to be बहुत परिचित साथ  the mushrooms they intend to collect as well as with any similar-looking toxic species .
in जोड , edibility  of mushrooms may depend on methods of preparation for cooking .
Collectors also need to be well aware that  edibility or toxicity of कुछ प्रजाति varies  with geographic location .
Human height is the distance from the bottom of  the फीट to the शीर्ष of  the head in a human body , standing erect .
When populations share genetic background and  पर्यावरणीय कारकों , औसत ऊँचाई is अक्सर characteristic  within the group .
Exceptional height variation ( around 20 % deviation from average ) within such a population is sometimes due to gigantism or  dwarfism , जिससे हैं चिकित्सा शर्तें caused by विशिष्ट जीनों or अंतःस्रावी  abnormalities .
In regions of extreme poverty or prolonged warfare , environmental factors like chronic malnutrition during childhood or adolescence may account for  विलम्बित विकास and/or ( in कठोर मामले ) चिह्नित reductions in वयस्क stature भी बगैर  the presence of any of these medical conditions .
अपोलो 11 थी the spaceflight कि उतरा the पहला इंसानो  , Americans Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin , on the Moon on July 20 , 1969 , at 20:18 UTC .
Armstrong became the first to step onto the  चंद्र सतह 6 घंटों बाद on जुलाई 21 at  02:56 UTC .
Armstrong  खर्च परिचय दो और a हाफ घंटों  outside the spacecraft , Aldrin slightly less ; and together they collected of lunar material for return to Earth .
A third member of the mission , Michael Collins , piloted the command spacecraft alone in lunar orbit until Armstrong and  एल्ड्रिन लौटे to it बस अंतर्गत a दिन  later for the trip back to Earth .
Launched  by a शनि v प्रक्षेपास्त्र इससे कैनेडी स्पेस बीच  in Merritt Island , Florida on July 16 , Apollo 11 was the fifth manned mission of NASA 's Apollo program .
The Apollo spacecraft had three parts : a Command Module with a cabin for the three astronauts which was the only part  जिससे उतरा वापस on धरती ; a सेवा मोड्यूल जिससे समर्थित the कमांड  Module with propulsion , electrical power , oxygen and water ; and a Lunar Module for landing on the Moon .
After being sent to the Moon by the Saturn V 's upper stage , the astronauts separated the spacecraft from it  और travelled  for three days until they entered into lunar orbit .
Armstrong and  एल्ड्रिन तब स्थानांतरित into the चंद्र  Module and landed in the Sea of Tranquility .
They stayed a total of  परिचय 21 और a हाफ घंटों on  the lunar surface .
After lifting off in the upper part of the Lunar Module and  rejoining कॉलिन्स in the कमांड मोड्यूल , वे लौटे to धरती और उतरा in the प्रशांत  Ocean on July 24 .
Broadcast on live TV to a  world-wide दर्शक , आर्मस्ट्रांग stepped onto the चंद्र सतह और वर्णित  the event as `` one small step for [ a ] man , one giant leap for mankind . ''
Apollo 11 effectively ended the Space Race and fulfilled a national  लक्ष्य प्रस्तावित in 1961 by the लेट u.S. अध्यक्ष जॉन F. कैनेडी in a वाक पहले the संयुक्त  States Congress , `` before this decade is out , of landing a man on the Moon and returning him safely to the Earth . ''
The FIFA World Cup , often simply the World Cup , is an international association football competition contested by the senior men 's national teams of the members of  fédération internationale de फ़ुटबॉल संघ ( फीफा ) , the खेल 's वैश्विक  governing body .
The championship has been awarded every four years since  the inaugural टूर्नामेंट in 1930 , मगर in 1942 और 1946 जब  it was not held because of the Second World War .
The current  champions हैं स्पेन  , who won the 2010 tournament .
The current format of the tournament involves 32 teams competing for the title at venues within the  मेजबान स्वदेश ( s ) over a काल of परिचय a माह ; इस phase is प्रायः पुकारा  the World Cup Finals .
A qualification phase , which currently takes place over the preceding three years ,  is प्रयुक्त to determine जिससे टीमों qualify लिये the टूर्नामेंट साथ  with the host nation ( s ) .
The 19 World Cup  tournaments have महरूम जीती  by eight different national teams .
Brazil  have जीती पाँच टाइम्स , और वे हैं the तभी टोली  to have played in every tournament .
The other  संसार कप विजेता हैं इटली , साथ चार शीर्षक ; जर्मनी  , with three titles ; Argentina and inaugural winners Uruguay , with two titles each ; and England , France , and Spain , with one title each .
The World Cup is the world 's most widely viewed sporting  इवेंट ; an अनुमानित 715.1 लाख लोगों देखी the  final match of the 2006 FIFA World Cup held in Germany .
The next three World Cups will be hosted by  ब्राज़ील in 2014 , रूस in 2018 , और क़तर in  2022 .
Genocide is a term coined in 1944 by Raphael Lemkin to describe the deliberate and  व्यवस्थित विनाश , in पूरे or in भाग , of an जातीय  , racial , religious , or national group .
It is defined in Article 2 of the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide ( CPPCG ) of 1948 as `` any of the following acts committed with intent to destroy , in whole or in part , a national , ethnical , racial or religious group , as such : killing members of the  समूह ; causing गंभीर bodily or दिमागी नुक़सान to सदस्यों of the समूह ; deliberately inflicting on the समूह शर्तें of जीवन , गणना to लाओ परिचय इसके शारीरिक विनाश in पूरे or in भाग ; imposing उपायों intended  to prevent births within the group ; [ and ] forcibly transferring children of the group to another group . ''
skulls of पीड़ितों of  the Rwandan Genocide
The preamble to the CPPCG not only states that `` genocide is a crime under international law ,  contrary to the स्पिरिट और aims of the संयुक्त राष्ट्र और condemned by the civilized संसार '' , लकिन भी कि `` at सब अवधि of इतिहास नरसंहार  has inflicted great losses on humanity '' .
Determining what historical  कार्यक्रम constitute a नरसंहार और जिससे हैं merely दण्ड  or inhuman behavior is not a clear-cut matter .
In nearly every case where accusations of  नरसंहार have परिचालित , partisans of विभिन्न पहलू have fiercely विवादित the निर्वचन  and details of the event , often to the point of promoting wildly different versions of the facts .
An accusation of  नरसंहार is कतई नहीं लिया हलके और होगा  almost always be controversial .
the following सूची of genocides और कथित genocides  should be understood in this context and can not be regarded as the final word on these subjects .
A timing belt is a non-slipping mechanical drive  बेल्ट और the पद may refer  to either:
Toothed  बेल्ट , a लचीली बेल्ट साथ  teeth moulded onto its inner surface
Timing belt ( camshaft ) , a toothed  बेल्ट प्रयुक्त to ड्राइव the camshaft  ( s ) within an internal combustion engine
The culture of the United States is primarily a Western culture , but is  भी बहकावे by देशी अमरीकी , अफ़्रीकी , एशियाई , पोलिनेशियाई  , and Latin American cultures .
American  संस्कृति प्रारंभ इसके गठन over 10,000 सालो पहले साथ the माइग्रेशन  of Paleo-Indians from Asia into the region that is today the continental United States .
It has its own unique social and cultural characteristics such as dialect , music , arts  , सोशल आदतें , भोजन  , and folklore .
The United States of America is an ethnically and racially diverse country as a result of  large-scale आव्रजन इससे अनेक अलग  countries throughout its history .
Its chief early European influences came from English ,  स्कॉटिश , वेल्श और आयरिश settlers of औपनिवेशिक अमेरिका दौरान अंग्रेजों  rule .
British culture ,  due to औपनिवेशिक ties साथ ब्रिटेन कि स्प्रेड the  English language , legal system and other cultural inheritances , had a formative influence .
Other important  प्रभाव आए इससे अन्य भाग of पश्चिमी  Europe , especially Germany , France , and Italy .
Original elements also play a strong role , such as  the आविष्कार of jeffersonian  democracy .
Thomas Jefferson 's Notes on the State of Virginia was perhaps the first influential domestic  सांस्कृतिक critique by an अमरीकी और a प्रतिक्रियावादी टुकड़ा to the प्रचलित यूरोपीय  consensus that America 's domestic originality was degenerate .
Prevalent ideas  और आदर्शों कि विकसित domestically , ऐसे as नेशनल छुट्टियाँ , uniquely अमरीकी  sports , military tradition , and innovations in the arts and entertainment give a strong sense of national pride among the population as a whole .
American culture includes both conservative and liberal elements ,  वैज्ञानिक और धार्मिक प्रतिस्पर्धात्मकता , राजनैतिक structures , रिस्क लेने  and free expression , materialist and moral elements .
Despite certain consistent ideological principles ( e.g . individualism , egalitarianism , and  आस्था in स्वतंत्रता और लोकतंत्र ) , अमरीकी संस्कृति रै a किस्में of expressions due  to its geographical scale and demographic diversity .
The flexibility of U.S. culture and its highly symbolic nature lead some researchers  to categorize अमरीकी संस्कृति as a mythic पहचान  ; others see it as American exceptionalism .
It also includes elements that evolved from Indigenous Americans , and other ethnic cultures—most prominently the culture of African Americans  , संस्कृतियों इससे लैटिन अमेरिका , और एशियाई अमरीकी संस्कृतियों  .
Many American cultural elements , especially from popular culture , have  स्प्रेड आरपार the ग्लोब through  modern mass media .
The United States has often been thought of as a melting pot , but beginning in the late 1990s and early 2000s ,  it रुझान towards सांस्कृतिक विविधता , बहुलवाद और  the image of a salad bowl instead .
Due to the extent of American culture , there are many integrated but unique social  subcultures भीतर the संयुक्त राज्य  .
The cultural affiliations an individual in  the संयुक्त राज्य may have commonly निर्भर on सोशल  class , political orientation and a multitude of demographic characteristics such as religious background , occupation and ethnic group membership .
Samoan ( Gagana fa'a Sāmoa or Gagana Sāmoa — IPA : ) is the language of the Samoan  आइलैंड्स , comprising the स्वतंत्र देश of समोआ और the  United States territory of American Samoa .
It is an official language—alongside English  —in  both jurisdictions .
samoan , a पोलिनेशियाई भाषा , is  the first language for most of the Samoa Islands ' population of about 246,000 .
With many Samoan people living in  अन्य देशों , the कुल क्रमांक  of speakers worldwide is estimated at 370,000 .
The language is notable for the phonological  मतभेद between औपचारिक और अनौपचारिक वाक  as well as a ceremonial form used in Samoan oratory .
A glucose tolerance test is a medical test in which glucose is given and  रक्त नमूने लिया afterward to determine  how quickly it is cleared from the blood .
The test is  प्रायः प्रयुक्त to परीक्षण लिये मधुमेह , इंसुलिन प्रतिरोध , और sometimes  reactive hypoglycemia and acromegaly , or rarer disorders of carbohydrate metabolism .
In the most commonly performed version of the test , an oral glucose tolerance test ( OGTT ) , a standard  खुराक of ग्लूकोज is ingested by मुँह और रक्त स्तर हैं checked  two hours later .
Many  विसंगतियाँ of the gtt have महरूम devised over the सालो लिये विभिन्न उद्देश्य , साथ अलग मानक doses of ग्लूकोज , अलग रूट of प्रशासन  , different intervals and durations of sampling , and various substances measured in addition to blood glucose .
`` What About Me '' is a song  लिखा by गैरी तुषार और frances swan , पहला अंकित  by Australian rock band Moving Pictures from their album Days of Innocence .
It was the band 's first number-one single in Australia spending six consecutive weeks on  the शीर्ष ; वहीँ , it थी the second-highest selling  single of 1982 .
The success  of the सोंग led उन्हें to अमेरिका जहाँ  it became a hit , reaching # 29 on the U.S . Billboard Hot 100 chart .
The song stayed in the U.S. charts for such a long time that it managed to make  billboards शीर्ष 100 पॉप singles of 1983 , at # 88 ,  a rare feat for a single with such a low peak position .
the सोंग बना an असामान्य वापसी  in 1989 , peaking at # 46 .
On the left a chicken egg , the egg most commonly eaten by humans ,  और on the सही दो बटेर अंडे
Eggs are laid by females of many different species , including birds , reptiles , amphibians , and fish ,  और have महरूम खाया by mankind लिये हज़ारों of सालो  .
Bird and reptile eggs consist of a protective eggshell , albumen ( egg white ) , and vitellus ( egg  yolk ) , contained भीतर विभिन्न पतला झिल्लियों  .
Popular choices for egg  खपत हैं मुर्गा , बतख , बटेर , roe , और caviar , लकिन the अंडा  most often consumed by humans is the chicken egg , by a wide margin .
Egg yolks and whole eggs store  significant amounts of प्रोटीन और choline , और हैं  widely used in cookery .
Due to their protein content , the United States  विभाग of कृषि ( यूएसडीए ) categorizes अंडे as  Meats within the Food Guide Pyramid .
Despite the nutritional value of eggs , there are some potential health issues  arising इससे अंडा विशेषता , भंडार ,  and individual allergies .
Chickens and other  egg-laying जीव हैं widely रखा throughout the संसार , और द्रव्यमान  production of chicken eggs is a global industry .
In 2009 , an estimated 62.1  लाख मीट्रिक टन of अंडे यहूद उत्पादित विश्वव्यापी इससे a कुल लेटा  flock of approximately 6.4 billion hens .
There are issues of regional variation in demand and expectation , as well as  वर्तमान debates concerning विधि of द्रव्यमान उत्पादन , साथ the यूरोपीय संघ 's  ban on battery farming of chickens .
Major League Soccer ( MLS ) is a professional soccer  लीग representing the खेल 's उच्चतम स्तर  in the United States and Canada .
Sanctioned by the United States Soccer  संघ ( u.S. सॉकर ) , the लीग is रचित  of 19 teams — 16 in the U.S. and 3 in Canada .
Seasons presently run from March to  दिसम्बर , साथ प्रत्येक टोली playing 34 खेल in the नियमित  season .
टेन टीमों compete in the postseason mls कप playoffs culminating  in the championship game , the MLS Cup .
Major League Soccer was founded in  1993 as भाग of the संयुक्त राज्य ' बोली to मेजबान  the 1994 FIFA World Cup .
The first season took  प्लेस in 1996 शुरूआत साथ  ten teams .
बजाय of ऑपरेटिंग as an संघ of independently  owned teams , MLS is a single entity where each team is owned and controlled by the league 's investors .
The league 's closed membership makes it one of the  संसार 's few सॉकर लीग नहीं  using promotion and relegation .
The legality of cannabis varies  इससे देश to देश  .
Possession of cannabis is illegal in most countries and has been since the  शुरूआत of फैली कैनबिस निषेध  in the late 1930s .
However , many countries have decriminalized the possession of  छोटी quantities of कैनबिस , विशेषकर in उत्तर अमेरिका , दक्षिण  America and Europe .
Furthermore , possession is legal or effectively legal in the Netherlands , North Korea and  होता be in the u.S. राज्य of कोलोराडो और वॉशिंगटन if it यहूद नहीं लिये संघीय विधि , जिससे governs  persons in all states .
The medicinal use of  कैनबिस is विधिक in a क्रमांक of देशों  , including Canada , the Czech Republic and Israel .
While federal law in the United States bans all sale and possession of cannabis , enforcement varies widely at the state  स्तर और कुछ राज्य have स्थापित औषधीय मारिजुआना कार्यक्रम in कि खण्डन  federal law ; two states ( Colorado and Washington ) have repealed their laws prohibiting the recreational use of cannabis and replaced them with a regulatory regime , also contrary to federal statute .
Some countries have laws that are not as vigorously prosecuted as others but , apart from the countries that offer access to medical marijuana  , सबसे देशों have विभिन्न दंड ranging इससे lenient  to very severe .
Some infractions are taken more  seriously in कुछ देशों than अन्य in लिहाज़ to the cultivation , उपयोग  , possession or transfer of cannabis for recreational use .
A few jurisdictions have lessened penalties for  कब्ज़ा of छोटी quantities of कैनबिस , बनाना  it punishable by confiscation and a fine , rather than imprisonment .
Some jurisdictions/ drug courts use mandatory treatment programs  लिये यंग or बारंबार उपयोक्ता , साथ स्वतंत्रता इससे narcotic दवाएँ as the लक्ष्य और  a few jurisdictions permit cannabis use for medicinal purposes .
वहीँ हैं भी परिवर्तन in  a more restrictive direction as in Canada .
Drug tests to  detect कैनबिस हैं increasingly आम in अनेक देशों और have resulted  in jail sentences and people losing their jobs .
However , simple possession can carry long jail sentences in some countries , particularly in parts of East Asia and Southeast Asia where  the बिक्री of कैनबिस may सीसे to a वाक्य of जीवन in थाना or भी  execution .
In cardiovascular physiology , ejection fraction ( EF ) represents the volumetric fraction of  रक्त उत्तेजित आउट of the ventricle ( दिल ) साथ प्रत्येक दिल  beat or cardiac cycle .
It can be applied to either the right  ventricle जिससे ejects via the pulmonary वाल्व into the  pulmonary circulation or the left ventricle which ejects via the aortic valve into the systemic circulation .
Imaging of the physiology of the mammalian heart is the art  कि allows सार्थक  mathematical expression defining EF .
Noninvasive cardiac imaging has become a worldwide utility enabling  पढ़ाई of हृदय प्रदर्शन reproducibly और  inexpensively .
Simplified , Ejection fraction is  a गणितीय उत्पाद  allowed by cardiac imaging .
As a mathematical term , Ejection Fraction is an  एक्सटेंशन of the कार्य of एडाल्फ फिक in हृदय  output .
Dedicated technology such as Echocardiography , Computed Tomography , Magnetic Resonance Imaging and MUGA scanning have definitively allowed clinically relevant  गणित regarding ischemia , जन्मजात दिल बीमारी और दिल विफलता  .
राज्य रूट 14 ( sr 14 ) is a north–south राज्य  highway in the U.S. state of California , largely in the Mojave Desert .
The  दक्षिणी portion of the राजमार्ग is हस्ताक्षरित  as the Antelope Valley Freeway .
The route connects Interstate 5 , or Golden State  फ्रीवे , निकट  Santa Clarita and with U.S. Route 395 near Inyokern .
Legislatively , the route extends south of I-5 to State  रूट 1 in the प्रशांत palisades क्षेत्रफल of लॉस एंजिल्स , however the portion  south of the junction with I-5 has not been constructed .
The southern part of the constructed route is a busy commuter freeway serving and connecting the communities of Santa Clarita , Palmdale  और lancaster साथ the बाकी of the वृहद लॉस एंजिल्स क्षेत्रफल  .
the उत्तरी portion , इससे विंसेंट ( दक्षिण of palmdale ) to रूट 395 , is legislatively नामित the aerospace राजमार्ग , as the राजमार्ग  serves Edwards Air Force Base , once one of the primary landing strips for NASA 's Space Shuttle .
This section is rural , following the line between the hot Mojave desert and  the forming सिएरा नेवाडा  mountain range .
Most of  रूट 14 is loosely paralleled by a प्रमुख लकीर of the दक्षिणी प्रशांत रेलरोड  , used for the Antelope Valley Line of the Metrolink commuter rail system as well as a connection between Los Angeles and the California Central Valley via Tehachapi Pass .
Linked with US 395 , this road connects Los Angeles with  ऐसे स्थान as मैमथ पहाड़ , मोनो झील , yosemite नेशनल  Park and Reno , Nevada .
Route 14 was part of U.S. Route 6 prior  to truncation in 1964 , जब u.S. 6 थी a coast-to-coast  route from Long Beach to Provincetown , Massachusetts .
The non-freeway segment of SR 14 from Silver Queen Road north of Rosamond to  mojave is ज्ञात as सिएरा राजमार्ग , as is the बूढ़ा रूटिंग between अंतरराज्यीय 5 और चांदी महारानी सड़क  where SR 14 has been moved to a newer freeway alignment .
Portions of Route 14 remain signed with names associated with US 6 , including Midland Trail , Theodore  रूज़वेल्ट राजमार्ग और ग्रैंड फौज of the गणतंत्र  Highway .
This route is part of the California Freeway and  एक्सप्रेसवे प्रणाली  .
Blindness is the condition of  lacking विज़ुअल बोध due to physiological  or neurological factors .
Various scales have been developed to  describe the extent of दृष्टि घाटा और  define blindness .
Total blindness is the complete lack of form and visual light perception and is clinically recorded  as nlp , an संक्षिप्त लिये `` no लाइट बोध  . ''
Blindness is  अक्सर प्रयुक्त to  describe severe visual impairment with vision .
Those described as having only light perception have no more sight than the ability  to बताना लाइट इससे अंधेरा और the सामान्य दिशा of  a light source .
To determine which people may need special assistance because of their visual  disabilities , विभिन्न सरकारी jurisdictions have प्रतिपादित अधिक जटिल  definitions referred to as legal blindness .
In North America and most of Europe , legal blindness is defined as visual acuity ( vision ) of  20/200 ( 6/60 ) or कम in the बेहतर नजर साथ  best correction possible .
This means that a legally blind individual would have to stand  इससे an ऑब्जेक्ट to देखिए it—with corrective lenses  —with the same degree of clarity as a normally sighted person could from .
in अनेक क्षेत्रों , लोगों साथ औसत तीक्ष्णता जो nonetheless have a विज़ुअल फ़ील्ड of  less than 20 degrees ( the norm being 180 degrees ) are also classified as being legally blind .
Approximately ten percent of those  deemed legally अँधा , by कोई माप , have  no vision .
The rest  have कुछ दृष्टि , इससे लाइट बोध  alone to relatively good acuity .
Low  दृष्टि is sometimes प्रयुक्त  to describe visual acuities from 20/70 to 20/200 .
By the 10th Revision of the WHO International Statistical Classification of Diseases , Injuries and Causes of Death , low vision is defined as visual  तीक्ष्णता of कम than 20/60 ( 6/18 ) , लकिन बराबर to or बेहतर than 20/200 ( 6/60 ) , or सम्बन्धित विज़ुअल फ़ील्ड घाटा to कम than 20 डिग्री , in the बेहतर  eye with best possible correction .
Blindness is defined as visual acuity of  कम than 20/400 ( 6/120 ) , or सम्बन्धित विज़ुअल फ़ील्ड घाटा to कम than 10 डिग्री  , in the better eye with best possible correction .
Blind people with undamaged eyes may  स्टिल पंजीकरण लाइट non-visually लिये the purpose of circadian  entrainment to the 24-hour light/dark cycle .
लाइट सिग्नल लिये इस purpose  travel through the retinohypothalamic tract and are not affected by optic nerve damage beyond where the retinohypothalamic tract exits .
Earl Simmons ( born December 18 , 1970 ) ,  बेहतर ज्ञात by उसके स्टेज names dmx और  Dark Man X , is an American rapper and actor .
In 1999 , DMX released his best-selling album ... And Then There  थी x , जिससे प्रदर्शित the hit सिंगल `` पार्टी up ( up in यहाँ )  `` .
He has acted in films such as Belly , Romeo Must Die , Exit  wounds , पालना 2 the संगीन , और पिछला  Hour .
In  2006 , he स्ट्रक्चर in the वास्तविकता टेलीविज़न श्रेणी  , which was primarily aired on the BET cable television network .
In 2003 , DMX published a book  of उसके memoirs हकदार , e.a.r.l .  : The Autobiography of DMX .
dmx released a mixtape the  Weigh In as a prelude/promotion towards his album Undisputed ( 2012 ) .
DMX has sold  over 30 लाख रिकॉर्ड विश्वव्यापी  , making him one of the best-selling hip-hop artists of all time .
Professional certification , trade  प्रमाणन , or पेशेवर नामांकन , प्रायः पुकारा बस प्रमाणन or योग्यता  , is a designation earned by a person to assure qualification to perform a job or task .
Not all certifications that use post-nominal letters are an acknowledgement of educational  उपलब्धि , or an एजेंसी नियुक्त to safeguard the पब्लिक  interest .
Bugs Bunny is a funny animal cartoon character , best remembered for his  अभिनीत भूमिकाएँ in the looney धुनें और merrie melodies श्रेणी of नाट्य छोटी films उत्पादित by warner भाईs. दौरान  the Golden age of American animation .
His popularity during this era  led to उसके बनने a कॉरपोरेट  mascot of Warner Bros. Entertainment .
Bugs is an anthropomorphic  धूसर हरे or खरगोश जो is प्रसिद्ध लिये उसके flippant , व्यक्तित्व  , a pronounced New York accent , his portrayal as a trickster , and his catch phrase `` Eh ...
What  's up  , doc ? ''
( usually said  जबकि चबाने  a carrot ) .
Bugs has appeared in more films than any other cartoon character and  is the नवीं सबसे portrayed फिल्मी व्यक्तित्व in  the world .
According to his 1990 `` biography '' Bugs Bunny : 50 Years and Only One Grey Hare , Bugs was born on July 27 , 1940 in Brooklyn , New York  in a वारेन अंतर्गत ebbets फ़ील्ड , घर of the ब्रुकलीन डॉजर्स  .
In reality , he was brought to life by the animators and staff of Leon Schlesinger Productions ( later Warner Bros. Cartoons ) : including Tex Avery , who directed Bugs ' early definitive short A Wild Hare ( 1940 )  ; रॉबर्ट mckimson , जो निर्मित बग ' निर्णायक अक्षर डिज़ाइन ; और mel blanc , जो originated the आवाज़ of  Bugs .
The mucous membranes ( or mucosae or mucosas ; singular mucosa ) are linings of mostly endodermal  उत्पत्ति , covered in epithelium , जिससे  are involved in absorption and secretion .
They line cavities that are exposed  to the बाह्य पर्यावरण  and internal organs .
They are at several places contiguous with skin : at the  नथुनों , the होठ of the मुँह , the eyelids , the कानों , the  genital area , and the anus .
The sticky , thick  द्रव स्रावित by the श्लेष्मक झिल्लियों और ग्रंथियों  is termed mucus .
The term mucous membrane refers to where they are found in the  देह और नहीं प्रत्येक श्लेष्मक झिल्ली secretes mucus  .
The glans clitoridis , glans penis ( head of the penis ) , along with  the अंदर of the अग्रत्वचा और the  clitoral hood , are mucous membranes .
The urethra is also  a श्लेष्मक झिल्ली  .
The secreted  mucus फंदा the pathogens in the देह , preventing  any further activities of diseases .
A master  सार्जेंट is the सैन्य रैंक लिये a वरिष्ठ  non-commissioned officer in some armed forces .
केक is a रूप  of bread or bread-like food .
In its modern forms ,  it is typically a मीठी baked  dessert .
in इसके oldest फ़ॉर्म , cakes  were normally fried breads or cheesecakes , and normally had a disk shape .
Determining  whether a दिए खाना चाहिए be वर्गीकृत as ब्रैड ,  cake , or pastry can be difficult .
आधुनिक केक , विशेषकर परत cakes , सामान्यतः contain a संयोजन of आटा ,  sugar , eggs , and butter or oil , with some varieties also requiring liquid ( typically milk or water ) and leavening agents ( such as yeast or baking powder ) .
Flavorful ingredients like fruit purées ,  nuts , सूखी or candied फल , or extracts हैं प्रायः added , और numerous substitutions  for the primary ingredients are possible .
Cakes are often filled with fruit preserves or dessert sauces (  जैसे पेस्ट्री मलाई ) , आइस्ड साथ buttercream or अन्य  icings , and decorated with marzipan , piped borders or candied fruit .
Cake is often the dessert of choice for meals at  ceremonial अवसरों , विशेषकर  weddings , anniversaries , and birthdays .
There are countless cake recipes ; some are bread-like , some rich and elaborate , and many  हैं सदियां  old .
Cake making is no longer a complicated procedure ; while at one time considerable labor went into cake making ( particularly the whisking of egg foams ) , baking  उपकरण और दिशानिर्देश have महरूम सरलीकृत so कि  even the most amateur cook may bake a cake .
Tamara Faye LaValley Bakker Messner ( March 7 , 1942 – July 20 , 2007 ) was an American Christian singer ,  इंजीलवादी , उद्योगों , लेखक , बात दिखाएँ मेजबान , और टेलीविज़न व्यक्तित्व  .
She  थी शादीशुदा इससे 1961 to 1992 to  televangelist , and later convicted felon , Jim Bakker .
She co-hosted  साथ उसे on the ptl क्लबों  ( 1976–1987 ) .
She was a participant in  the 2004 ऋतु of the वास्तविकता दिखाएँ the  Surreal Life .
cambria is a गाँव in कोलंबिया  County , Wisconsin , United States .
The  जनसांख्यिकी थी  767 at the 2010 census .
It  is भाग of the मैडिसन  Metropolitan Statistical Area .
पब्लिक नीति is the principled मार्गदर्शिका to कार्रवाई लिया by the प्रशासनिक  executive branches of the state with regard to a class of issues in a manner consistent with law and institutional customs .
In general , the foundation is the  pertinent नेशनल और substantial संवैधानिक  law and implementing legislation such as the US Federal code .
Further substrates  शामिल दोनो न्यायिक interpretations और regulations जिससे हैं generally  authorized by legislation .
Other scholars define it as a system of `` courses of action ,  नियामक उपायों , कानून , और funding प्राथमिकताएं concerning a दिए टॉपिक promulgated  by a governmental entity or its representatives . ''
Public policy is  commonly समाविष्ट  `` in constitutions , legislative acts , and judicial decisions . ''
In  the संयुक्त राज्य , इस अवधारणा refers नहीं तभी to the  result of policies , but more broadly to the decision-making and analysis of governmental decisions .
As an academic discipline , public policy is studied by professors and  विद्यार्थी at पब्लिक नीति स्कूलों of प्रमुख विश्वविद्यालयों  throughout the country .
The U.S. professional association of public policy practitioners  , शोधकर्ताओं , विद्वानों , और विद्यार्थी is the संघ लिये पब्लिक  Policy Analysis and Management .
Digestion is the mechanical and chemical  विश्लेषण of खाना into छोटी components कि हैं अधिक easily अवशोषित  into a blood stream , for instance .
Digestion is a form of catabolism : a  विश्लेषण of विशाल खाना अणुओं  to smaller ones .
When food enters the mouth ,  पाचन of the खाना starts by the कार्रवाई of mastication ,  a form of mechanical digestion , and the wetting contact of saliva .
लार , a द्रव स्रावित by the salivary ग्रंथियों , contains salivary amylase , an एंजाइम  which starts the digestion of starch in the food .
बाद undergoing mastication और मंड पाचन  , the food will be in the form of a small , round slurry mass called a bolus .
It will then travel down the esophagus and into  the पेट by the कार्रवाई of peristalsis  .
Gastric juice in  the पेट  starts protein digestion .
Gastric  रस मुख्यतः contains हाइड्रोक्लोरिक  acid and pepsin .
As  ये दो रसायन may क्षति the पेट वॉल  , mucus is secreted by the stomach , providing a slimy layer that acts as a shield against the damaging effects of the chemicals .
At the same time protein digestion is occurring , mechanical mixing occurs by  peristalsis , जिससे हैं लहरें of muscular contractions  that move along the stomach wall .
This allows the mass of  खाना to further मिक्सर  with the digestive enzymes .
After some time ( typically an hour or two in humans , 4–6  घंटों in कुत्तो , somewhat shorter अवधि in  house cats ) , the resulting thick liquid is called chyme .
जब the pyloric sphincter वाल्व opens , chyme enters the duodenum  where it mixes with digestive enzymes from the pancreas , and then passes through the small intestine , in which digestion continues .
When the chyme is fully digested ,  it is अवशोषित into the  blood .
95 % of  अवशोषण of nutrients  occurs in the small intestine .
Water and minerals are reabsorbed  वापस into the रक्त in the कोलन ( विशाल आंत ) जहाँ  the pH is slightly acidic about 5.6 ~ 6.9 .
Some vitamins , such as biotin and  विटामिन k ( k2mk7 ) उत्पादित by जीवाणु in the कोलन  are also absorbed into the blood in the colon .
बर्बाद सामग्री is eliminated इससे  the rectum during defecation .
Henry  viii ( 28 जून 1491 – 28 जनवरी 1547 ) थी किंग  of England from 21 April 1509 until his death .
He was lord , and later king , of  आयरलैंड , as खूब as continuing the नाममात्र  claim by the English monarchs to the Kingdom of France .
Henry was the second monarch of the Tudor dynasty ,  succeeding उसके पिता  , Henry VII .
Besides his six marriages , Henry VIII is known for his role in the  विरह of the गिरिजाघर of इंग्लैण्ड इससे the रोमन  Catholic Church .
Henry 's struggles with Rome led to the separation of the  गिरिजाघर of इंग्लैण्ड इससे papal प्राधिकार , the विच्छेद of the monasteries  , and his own establishment as the Supreme Head of the Church of England .
Yet he remained a believer in core  कैथोलिक theological शिक्षाओं  , even after his excommunication from the Roman Catholic Church .
Henry oversaw the  विधिक संघ of इंग्लैण्ड और वेल्स साथ  the Laws in Wales Acts 1535 and 1542 .
In 1513 , the new king allied with the Holy Roman Emperor , Maximillian I , and invaded France in  1513 साथ a विशाल , well-equipped फौज , लकिन  achieved little at a considerable financial cost .
Maximillian , for his part ,  प्रयुक्त the अंग्रेज़ी आक्रमण to उसके अपना ends , और  this prejudiced England 's ability to defeat the French .
This foray would prove the start of an obsession for Henry  , जो invaded again in  1544 .
This time , Henry 's forces captured the important city of Boulogne , but again the Holy Roman Emperor , Charles  v , समर्थित हेनरी तभी as long as he  needed to and England , strained by the enormous cost of the war , ransomed the city back for peace .
His  contemporaries माना हेनरी in उसके प्रधान to be an आकर्षक , शिक्षित और संपन्नता  king , and he has been described as `` one of the most charismatic rulers to sit on the English throne '' .
Besides ruling with absolute  शक्ति , he भी सगाई खुद  as an author and composer .
His desire to provide England with a male heir – which stemmed partly from personal vanity and partly because he believed a daughter would be unable to consolidate the  ट्यूडर राजवंश और the नाजुक सलाम कि existed following the युद्धों of the गुलाब – led  to the two things for which Henry is most remembered : his six marriages and the English Reformation .
Henry became  रुग्ण मोटे और उसके स्वास्थ्य  suffered , contributing to his death in 1547 .
He is frequently characterised  in उसके बाद जीवन as a lustful  , egotistical , harsh , and insecure king .
Bongos ( Spanish : bongó ) are an Afro-Cuban  percussion यंत्र  .
The drums are of different  आकार : the larger ढोल is पुकारा  in Spanish the hembra ( female ) and the smaller the macho ( male ) .
They are membranophones , or instruments that  बनाएँ ध्वनि by a स्पंदन of a stretched  membrane .
Different religious groups include different books in their Biblical canons , in varying orders , and sometimes  divide or combine किताबे , or चरितार्थ अतिरिक्त सामग्री into canonical  books .
Christian  bibles दायरा इससे the sixty-six किताबे of the प्रोटोस्टेंट canon to the eighty-one  books of the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church canon .
The Hebrew Bible , or  tanakh , contains twenty-four किताबे विभाजित into तीन भाग ; the पाँच किताबे  of the Torah ( `` teaching '' or `` law '' ) , the Nevi'im ( `` prophets '' ) , and the Ketuvim ( `` writings '' ) .
The first part of Christian Bibles is the Old  वसीयत , जिससे contains , at न्यूनतम , the  twenty-four books of the Hebrew Bible divided into thirty-nine books and ordered differently from the Hebrew Bible .
The Catholic Church and Eastern Christian churches also hold  निश्चित deuterocanonical किताबे और passages to be भाग of the बूढ़ा वसीयत  canon .
The second part is the New Testament , containing twenty-seven books ; the four Canonical gospels , Acts of the  रसूलों , twenty-one epistles or अक्षर और the किताब of रहस्योद्घाटन  .
The Eastern Orthodox , Oriental Orthodox and Eastern Catholic churches may have  नाबालिग मतभेद in उनके सूचियाँ of स्वीकृत  books .
The list given  यहाँ लिये ये चर्च is the सबसे समावेशी :  if at least one Eastern church accepts the book it is included here .
The national flag of the United States of America , often simply referred to as the American flag , consists of thirteen equal horizontal  धारियाँ of रेड ( शीर्ष और नीचे ) प्रत्यावर्ती साथ श्वेत , साथ a ब्लू आयताकार in the कैण्टन ( referred to specifically as the `` संघ  '' ) bearing fifty small , white , five-pointed stars arranged in nine offset horizontal rows of six stars ( top and bottom ) alternating with rows of five stars .
The 50 stars on the flag represent the 50  राज्य of the संयुक्त राज्य of अमेरिका और the 13 धारियाँ represent the तेरह अंग्रेजों colonies कि घोषित स्वतंत्रता  from the Kingdom of Great Britain and became the first states in the Union .
Nicknames for the flag  शामिल the `` सितारों और धारियाँ  '' , `` Old Glory `` , and `` The Star-Spangled Banner . ''
dred स्कॉट v. sandford , , भी ज्ञात as the dred  Scott Decision , was a landmark decision by the U.S. Supreme Court .
It  बना दो प्रमुख  rulings .
The first ruling was that African-Americans were not citizens ,  और इसलिए था no खड़ा  to sue in federal court .
The second ruling was that the federal government  था no शक्ति to विनियमित गुलामी in कोई territory acquired subsequent to the सृष्टि  of the United States .
Given the first ruling , most scholars and many contemporary political figures ( including the leadership of the  then-new रिपब्लिकन पार्टी ) माना कि the दूसरी सत्ताधारी  was not binding precedent , but mere dictum .
The rationale of the Supreme Court regarding the jurisdictional ruling implied that people of African descent  ( दोनो स्लेव और फ़्री ) यहूद नहीं सुरक्षित by the संविधान  and were not U.S. citizens .
Since passage of the 14th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution , both  rulings हैं superseded और no longer मान्य यही  .
Nonetheless , the case retains historical significance as it is widely regarded as the  worst निर्णय कभी बना by the परम् अदालत  .
The opinion of  the अदालत , लिखा  by Chief Justice Roger B. Taney , stirred debate .
The decision was 7–2 , and every Justice besides Taney wrote a separate  concurrence or dissent  .
For the  पहला समय चूंकि marbury v. मैडिसन , the अदालत  held an Act of Congress to be unconstitutional .
Dred Scott , an African-American slave , had asked a United  राज्य सर्किट अदालत to पुरस्कार उसे उसके स्वतंत्रता क्युकी  he and his master had resided in a state ( Illinois ) and a territory ( Wisconsin Territory ) where slavery had been banned .
Chief Justice Roger Taney , writing for the court , held that Scott , as a person of African ancestry , was not  a नागरिक of the संयुक्त राज्य और इसलिए था no सही to मुकदमा in संघीय अदालत .
This holding was contrary to  the अभ्यास of numerous राज्य at the समय , विशेषकर फ़्री राज्य , जहाँ फ़्री अश्वेतों किया  in fact enjoy the rights of citizens , such as the right to vote and hold public office .
In what is sometimes considered mere obiter dictum , the Court went on to hold  कि कॉंग्रेस था no प्राधिकार to prohibit गुलामी in संघीय territories क्युकी स्लेव हैं निजी प्रॉपर्टी और the पांचवां amendment to the संविधान  protects property owners against deprivation of their property without due process of law .
In reaching this  निर्णय , taney था hoped to settle the growing विवाद  surrounding slavery in the United States , but it had the opposite effect .
The decision was fiercely debated across the country , as perhaps best  सरंचनाओं by the lincoln–douglas debates of 1858  .
Abraham Lincoln , the second-ever Republican  nominee लिये अध्यक्ष , थी समर्थ to जीत the  presidential election in 1860 ; the stopping of the further expansion of slavery was a key Republican party plank .
The decision played an important role in the timing of state secession and the Civil War , although it is extreme to say  the निर्णय `` caused '' the युद्ध  .
The decision is acknowledged for the influential role it played in altering the national political landscape : it is  credited साथ शुभारंभ अब्राहम lincoln’s नेशनल राजनैतिक  career and ultimately allowing for his election .
Although the Supreme Court has never explicitly overruled the Dred Scott case , the Court stated in the Slaughter-House Cases that at least one part of it had already been  overruled by the fourteenth amendment in 1868 , जिससे begins by stating , `` सब व्यक्तियों born or देशीयकृत in the संयुक्त राज्य , और विषय to the क्षेत्राधिकार thereof  , are citizens of the United States and of the State wherein they reside . ''
to जिससे  the Court noted:
The first observation we  have to मेक on इस clause is , कि it puts at  rest both the questions which we stated to have been the subject of differences of opinion .
It declares that persons may be citizens of the United States without regard to their citizenship of a particular State , and it overturns  the dred स्कॉट निर्णय by बनाना सब व्यक्तियों born भीतर the संयुक्त राज्य और विषय to इसके क्षेत्राधिकार  citizens of the United States .
There are dozens of  पड़ोस in कोलंबस  , Ohio .
Some are hard to define ,  as वे encompass विशाल क्षेत्रों  developed at different times—often with sub-neighborhoods within them .
Borders can also change based on popular  समझना of the क्षेत्रफल , as खूब as the  whims of the residents .
This article uses data from the Datasourcecolumbus Web site , Spotcrime.com ,  hellocolumbus.com , as खूब as the विभिन्न कोलंबस क्षेत्रफल आयोग to  define the various areas .
Excerpts and  किनारा सूचना हैं drawn सीधे  from the main articles .
A biologist is a scientist who studies living organisms and their  संबंध to उनके पर्यावरण  .
Biologists involved in basic research attempt to  discover underlying mechanisms  that govern how organisms work .
Biologists involved in applied research attempt to  develop or improve चिकित्सा  , industrial or agricultural processes .
Martinus Willem  beijerinck , a वनस्पतिशास्त्री  and microbiologist
आधार कूद इससे a चट्टान  in a wingsuit .
BASE jumping , also  sometimes लिखा as b.a.s.e . कूद , is an कार्यकलाप  where participants jump from fixed objects and use a parachute to break their fall .
`` BASE '' is an acronym that stands for four categories of fixed objects from which one can jump :  इमारतें , एन्टेना , spans ( पुलों ) , और धरती  ( cliffs ) .
The British Shorthair is a domesticated cat whose features make it a popular  नस्ल in बिल्ली shows  .
It has been the most popular breed of cat registered by the UK 's  शासी परिषद of the बिल्ली फैंसी ( gccf ) चूंकि 2001 , जब it overtook  the Persian breed .
The USA Basketball Men 's Senior National Team , commonly known as the United States men 's national basketball team , represents the United States of  अमेरिका in अंतरराष्ट्रीय मेन 's बास्केट  .
the यूएसए is the सबसे कामयाब टोली in अंतरराष्ट्रीय  competition , winning medals in all seventeen Olympic tournaments it has entered , coming away with fourteen golds .
दो of इसके सुनहरा medal-winning दस्तों यहूद inducted to the naismith मेमोरियल बास्केट  Hall of Fame as teams in August 2010—the 1960 team , which featured six Hall of Famers ( 4 players , 2 coaches ) , and the 1992 `` Dream Team '' , featuring 14 Hall of Famers ( 11 players , 3 coaches ) .
The United States is currently ranked  पहला in the fiba  World Rankings .
Traditionally  रचित of amateur खिलाड़ी , a 1989 नियम बदलें  by FIBA allowed USA Basketball to field teams with professional players .
The first such team , known as the ``  सपना टोली '' , जीती the सुनहरा पदक at the 1992 गर्मियाँ ओलंपिक in  Barcelona , Spain , playing in the final against Croatia .
With the introduction of professionals , the team was able to spark a  दूसरी चलाएं of दबदबा बाद capturing तभी a कांस्य  medal in 1988 .
A team of  पेशेवर खिलाड़ी competed at the  1994 FIBA World Championship , finishing first .
In 1996 , 2000 , 2008 , and 2012 the  यूएसए again captured सुनहरा  medals .
Facing increased competition , the USA failed to win a medal at the 2002  fiba संसार चैंपियनशिप , finishing  sixth .
The 2004 Summer Olympic team lost three games on its way to a bronze medal , a record that  represented अधिक नुकसान in a सिंगल साल than the देश 's ओलम्पिक टीमों था suffered in  all previous Olympiads combined .
Determined to put an end to these failures , USA  बास्केट initiated a long-term प्रोजेक्ट aimed at बनाना बेहतर  , more cohesive teams .
The USA won  इसके पहला सात खेल at the 2006 fiba संसार चैंपियनशिप in जापानी पहले खोने  against Greece in the semi-finals , ending the competition with the bronze medal .
The USA won gold  दो सालो बाद , हालांकि ,  at the 2008 Summer Olympics with a dominant performance .
This success was followed up at the 2010 FIBA World Championship , where despite fielding a roster featuring no players from  the 2008 ओलम्पिक टोली , the यूएसए किया नहीं खोना a सिंगल खेल en रूट to defeating मेजबान तुर्कों  for the gold medal .
The USA continued this streak of dominance by going undefeated and capturing  सुनहरा एकबार अधिक at the 2012  Summer Olympics .
The Steelers Super  कटोरी xl  ring
Joe Theismann 's Super  कटोरी रिंग ( सही  )
The Super Bowl ring is an award in the National Football  लीग दिए to the विजेता of the लीग 's सालाना संसार चैंपियनशिप  game , the Super Bowl .
Since only one Vince Lombardi Trophy is awarded to the team ( ownership ) itself , the Super  कटोरी रिंग offers a collectible memento लिये the वास्तविक खिलाड़ी  and team members to keep for themselves to symbolize the victory .
Image  प्रर्दशित the छह सबसे आम  speleothems with labels .
to  दृश्य लेबल्स  .
The  डायन 's उंगली  in the Carlsbad Caverns
A stalagmite ( or ; from the Greek σταλαγμίτης - stalagmitês , from σταλαγμίας - stalagmias , `` dropping , trickling '' ) is a  प्रकार of speleothem कि उदय इससे the मंजिल of a चूना गुफा due to the टपकता of mineralized  solutions and the deposition of calcium carbonate .
This stalagmite formation occurs only under  निश्चित ph शर्तें भीतर the भूमिगत  cavern .
The corresponding formation on the ceiling of a cave is  ज्ञात as a stalactite  .
If these formations  grow साथ , the  result is known as a column .
The Hall of Giants in the  carlsbad caverns
Stalagmites should normally not be touched , since the rock buildup is formed by minerals  precipitating आउट of the जल समाधान onto the बूढ़ा सतह ; स्किन oils can alter the सतह जहाँ  the mineral water will cling , thus affecting the growth of the formation .
Oils and dirt  इससे इंसान सम्पर्क can भी दाग the गठन  and change its color permanently .
Similar structures can also form in lava tubes ,  संबद्ध साथ कुछ प्रकार of lavacicles  , although the mechanism of formation is very different .
Stalactites and stalagmites can also form on concrete ceilings and floors  , हालांकि वे रूप much अधिक rapidly वहीँ than  in the natural cave environment .
The largest stalagmite in the world is high and is  स्तिथ  in the cave of Cueva Martin Infierno , Cuba .
In the Zagros Mountains of south  इरान , लगभग इससे the प्राचीन नगर of bishapur , in the shapur गुफा on the चौथी  of five terraces stands the 3rd century CE statue of Shapur I , second ruler of the Sassanid Empire .
The statue , carved  इससे एक stalagmite , is  nearly high .
How I Met Your Mother is an American sitcom that  premiered on सीबीएस on  September 19 , 2005 .
The show was created  by क्रेग थामस और  Carter Bays .
How I Met Your Mother is framed by the year 2030 , when Ted Mosby ( voiced  by bob saget ) gathers उसके बेटी ( lyndsy fonseca ) और बेटे ( दाउद henrie  ) to tell them the story of how he met their mother .
We flashback to where it begins in 2005 with Ted Mosby ( Josh Radnor ) as a single , 27-year-old architect living with his two best friends  इससे wesleyan विश्वविद्यालयों , मार्शल eriksen ( जेसन सेगल ) , a विधि  student , and Lily Aldrin ( Alyson Hannigan ) , a kindergarten teacher , who have been dating for almost nine years when Marshall proposes .
Their engagement causes Ted to think about finding his own  आत्मा mate , much to the disgust of उसके dost बार्नी stinson ( neil  Patrick Harris ) , a womanizer with an unnamed corporate job .
And thus , Ted begins his search for his perfect mate , and meets Robin  scherbatsky ( कोबी स्मल्डर्स ) , जिसको he भी  befriends .
the 100th एपीसोड of कैसा i  Met Your Mother aired on January 11 , 2010 .
On December 21 , 2012 , the  श्रेणी थी नवीनीकृत  for a ninth season .
On January 30 , 2013 , it was  घोषित कि ऋतु 9  will be its final season .
Gringo ( , , ) is a slang Spanish and Portuguese  शब्द प्रयुक्त in ibero-america , to denote विदेशियों  , often from the United States .
The term can be applied to someone  जो is दरअसल a foreigner , or it can denote  a strong association or assimilation into foreign ( particularly US ) society and culture .
In Spanish it does not  have a ऋणात्मक connotation  .
Roger  axtell , a सफर तहज़ीब विशेषज्ञ , टीप कि ``  [ t ] he word gringo is not necessarily a bad word .
It is  कठबोली लकिन is अपमानजनक  only in its use and context . ''
The word was used in Spain  long पहले it crossed the अटलांटिक to denote  foreign , non-native speakers of Spanish .
The great white shark , Carcharodon carcharias , also known as the great white , white pointer , white shark , or  श्वेत मौत , is a प्रजाति of विशाल lamniform शार्क जिससे can be मिला in the तटीय सतह  waters of all the major oceans .
The great white shark is mainly known for its size , with the largest  individuals ज्ञात to have approached or exceeded  in length , and in weight .
इस शार्क पहुँच इसके परिपक्वता  around 15 years of age and can have a life span of over 30 years .
The great white shark is arguably the world 's largest known extant macropredatory fish , and  is एक of the  primary predators of marine mammals .
It is also known to prey upon a variety of other marine  पशु , सहित मछली और seabirds  .
It is the only known surviving species of its genus  carcharodon , और is क्रमित पहला  in having the most attacks on humans .
The IUCN list the great white shark as a vulnerable species ,  जबकि it is शामिल in परिशिष्ट ii  of CITES .
The bestselling novel  जबड़े by पीटर benchley और the subsequent ब्लॉकबस्टर फिल्मी by  Steven Spielberg depicted the great white shark as a `` ferocious man eater `` .
In reality , humans are not the  पसन्दीदा शिकार of the ग्रेट  white shark .
The United States Armed Forces are the military forces of the  संयुक्त राज्य of अमेरिका  .
They consist of the Army , Navy ,  समुद्री corps , एयर फ़ोर्स , और coast गार्ड  .
The U.S. has a  दमदार परंपरा of  civilian control of the military .
The President is the  सैन्य 's overall सिर , और helps रूप सैन्य नीति साथ the u.S.  Department of Defense ( DoD ) , a federal executive department , acting as the principal organ by which military policy is carried out .
The DoD is headed by the Secretary of Defense , who is a  civilian और कैबिनेट सदस्य .
The Defense Secretary is second in the military 's chain of command , just below the President , and  serves as the प्रिंसिपल सहायक to the अध्यक्ष in सब dod-related  matters .
To  निर्देशांक सैन्य कार्रवाई साथ कूटनीति , the  President has an advisory National Security Council headed by a National Security Advisor .
Both the President and Secretary of  रक्षा हैं advised by a seven-member संयुक्त chiefs of स्टाफ , जिससे शामिल  the head of each of the Defense Department 's service branches as well as the chief of the National Guard Bureau .
Leadership is provided by the Chairman of the Joint  chiefs of स्टाफ और the वाइस अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त  Chiefs of Staff .
The Commandant of  the coast गार्ड is नहीं a सदस्य  of the Joint Chiefs of Staff .
All of the branches work together  दौरान परिचालन और संयुक्त मिशन , अंतर्गत the एकीकृत combatant कमांड , अंतर्गत the  authority of the Secretary of Defense with the exception of the Coast Guard .
The Coast Guard falls under the administration of the Department of  मातृभूमि सुरक्षा और receives इसके operational आदेश इससे  the Secretary of Homeland Security .
The Coast Guard may be transferred to the Department of the Navy by the  अध्यक्ष or कॉंग्रेस दौरान a समय of युद्ध  .
All  पाँच हथियारबंद सेवाएं हैं among the सात uniformed  services of the United States ; the others are the U.S. Public Health Service Commissioned Corps and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Commissioned Corps .
From the time of its inception , the military played a  निर्णायक भूमिका in the इतिहास of the  United States .
A sense of  नेशनल एकता और पहचान थी forged as a परिणाम of विजय  in the First Barbary War and the Second Barbary War .
Even so , the Founders were suspicious of a permanent military  फ़ोर्स और नहीं जबतक the outbreak of संसार युद्ध ii किया a विशाल  standing army become officially established .
The National Security Act of 1947 , adopted following World War II and during the Cold War 's onset , created the modern U.S. military framework ; the Act merged previously  cabinet-level विभाग of युद्ध और the विभाग of the  Navy into the National Military Establishment ( renamed the Department of Defense in 1949 ) , headed by the Secretary of Defense ; and created the Department of the Air Force and National Security Council .
The U.S. military  is एक of the largest militaries in शर्तें  of number of personnel .
it draws इसके जनशक्ति इससे a विशाल पूल of सशुल्क स्वयंसेवक  ; although conscription has been used in the past in various times of both war and peace , it has not been used since 1972 .
As of 2013 , the U.S. spends about $ 554.2 billion annually to fund its military  शक्तियां , और appropriates लगभग  $ 88.5 billion to fund Overseas Contingency Operations .
Put together , the U.S. constitutes roughly 43 percent of  the संसार 's सैन्य expenditures  .
the u.S. हथियारबंद शक्तियां as a पूरे possess विशाल quantities of उन्नत और शक्तिशाली उपकरण , साथ साथ फैली  placement of forces around the world , giving them significant capabilities in both defense and power projection .
Freedom of speech is the political right to communicate one 's opinions and ideas using one 's body  और प्रॉपर्टी to anyone जो is  willing to receive them .
The term freedom of expression is sometimes used synonymously , but includes any act of seeking , receiving and imparting  सूचना or विचार , regardless of the मीडियम प्रयुक्त  .
In practice , the right to  स्वतंत्रता of वाक is नहीं निरपेक्ष in कोई देश और the सही is commonly विषय  to limitations , as with libel , slander , obscenity , sedition ( including , for example inciting ethnic hatred ) , copyright violation , revelation of information that is classified or otherwise .
The right to freedom of expression is recognized as a human right under Article 19 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and recognized in  अंतरराष्ट्रीय इंसान अधिकारों विधि in the अंतरराष्ट्रीय वचन on सिविल और  Political Rights ( ICCPR ) .
Article 19 of the ICCPR states that `` [ e ] veryone shall have the right to hold opinions without interference '' and  `` everyone shall have the सही to स्वतंत्रता of अभिव्यक्ति ; इस सही shall शामिल स्वतंत्रता to तलाश ,  receive and impart information and ideas of all kinds , regardless of frontiers , either orally , in writing or in print , in the form of art , or through any other media of his choice '' .
Article 19 goes on to say that the exercise of these rights carries `` special duties and  जिम्मेदारियों `` और may `` इसलिए be विषय to निश्चित प्रतिबंध  '' when necessary `` [ f ] or respect of the rights or reputation of others '' or `` [ f ] or the protection of national security or of public order ( order public ) , or of public health or morals '' .
Freedom of speech may be  legally curtailed in कुछ धार्मिक  legal systems and in secular jurisdictions where it is found to cause religious offense , such as the British Racial and Religious Hatred Act 2006 .
The Big  बंग सिद्धान्त  logo .
The Big Bang Theory is an American comedy television series created and  कार्यपालिका उत्पादित by चक lorre  and Bill Prady .
Like the name of the series  itself , साथ the एक्सेप्शन of the पहला episode— '' पायलट '' —episode शीर्षक of the बिग बंग सिद्धान्त सदा प्रारंभ साथ `` the ''  and resemble the name of a scientific principle , theory or experiment , whimsically referencing a plot point or quirk .
, 133 episodes  have aired  .
The Big  बंग सिद्धान्त रै महरूम नवीनीकृत  for a seventh season .
Dwight David `` Ike '' Eisenhower ( pronounced , ; October 14 , 1890 – March 28 , 1969 ) was  the 34th अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य इससे 1953  until 1961 .
He had previously been a five-star general in the United States Army during World War II and served as Supreme Commander of the Allied Forces in Europe ; he had responsibility for planning and supervising  the आक्रमण of उत्तर अफ़्रीकी in आपरेशन मशाल in 1942–43 और the कामयाब आक्रमण of फ़्रांस और  Germany in 1944–45 from the Western Front .
In 1951 , he became the first  परम् कमांडर  of NATO .
Eisenhower was  of पेन्सिलवेनिया डच ancestry और थी reared  in a large family in Kansas by parents with a robust work ethic and religious background .
As one of six sons , he was  conditioned by a प्रतिस्पर्धी माहौल जिससे instilled self-reliance  .
He attended  और ग्रैजुएट इससे  West Point and later married and had two sons .
After World War II , Eisenhower served as Army Chief of Staff under President Harry  S. ट्रूमैन , तब assumed  the post of President at Columbia University .
Eisenhower entered the 1952 presidential race as a Republican to counter the non-interventionism of Senator Robert A. Taft and to crusade  विरूद्ध `` साम्यवादी , कोरियाई और भ्रष्टाचार  '' .
He won by a  भूस्खलन , defeating डेमोक्रेट  Adlai Stevenson and ending two decades of the New Deal Coalition .
In the first year of his  प्रेसिडेंसी , आइज़नहावर अपदस्थ the नेता of इरान in the 1953 ईरानी तख्तापलट d'état और प्रयुक्त  nuclear threats to conclude the Korean War with China .
His New Look policy of nuclear deterrence gave priority to  inexpensive नाभिकीय हथियार जबकि reducing the funding लिये conventional सैन्य शक्तियां ;  the goal was to keep pressure on the Soviet Union and reduce federal deficits .
In 1954 , Eisenhower first  articulated the domino सिद्धान्त in उसके वर्णन of the  threat presented by the spread of communism .
The Congress agreed to his request in 1955 for the Formosa Resolution , which enabled him to prevent Chinese communist aggression against Chinese  राष्ट्रवादियों और स्थापित the u.S. नीति of defending  Taiwan .
When  the soviets शुभारम्भ  Sputnik in 1957 , he had to play catch-up in the space race .
Eisenhower forced Israel , the UK , and France to end  उनके आक्रमण of मिश्र दौरान the स्वेज संकट  of 1956 .
In 1958 , he sent 15,000 US troops to Lebanon to prevent the pro-Western government from falling  to a nasser -inspired क्रान्ति  .
Near the end of his term , his efforts to set up a summit  बैठक साथ the soviets collapsed क्युकी of the u-2 घटना  .
On the domestic front , he  covertly opposed जोसेफ मैकार्थी और contributed  to the end of McCarthyism by openly invoking the modern expanded version of executive privilege .
he वरना बाएँ सबसे राजनैतिक कार्यकलाप  to his Vice President , Richard Nixon .
He was a moderate conservative who continued New Deal agencies and expanded  सोशल सुरक्षा .
Among his enduring innovations , he launched the Interstate Highway System ; the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency ( DARPA ) , which led to the internet , among many invaluable outputs ; the National Aeronautics  और स्पेस प्रशासन ( नासा ) , ड्राइविंग शांतिपूर्ण डिस्कवरी in स्पेस  ; the establishment of strong science education via the National Defense Education Act ; and encouraging peaceful use of nuclear power via amendments to the Atomic Energy Act .
In social policy , he sent federal  सैनिकों to छोटी चट्टान , अरकंसास , लिये the पहला  time since Reconstruction to enforce federal court orders to desegregate public schools .
He also signed civil rights legislation in 1957 and  1960 to protect the सही  to vote .
He implemented  desegregation of the हथियारबंद शक्तियां in दो सालो और  made five appointments to the Supreme Court .
He was  the पहला term-limited अध्यक्ष  in accordance with the 22nd Amendment .
Eisenhower 's two terms were  शांतिपूर्ण ones लिये the सबसे भाग और देखी  considerable economic prosperity except for a sharp recession in 1958–59 .
Eisenhower  is प्रायः क्रमित अत्यधिक  among the U.S. Presidents .
Air Force One is the official air traffic control call sign of a  संयुक्त राज्य एयर फ़ोर्स वायुयान carrying  the President of the United States .
In common  parlance the पद refers to those एयर फ़ोर्स वायुयान specifically  designed , built , and used for the purpose of transporting the president .
The Presidential aircraft  is a prominent प्रतीक  of the American presidency and its power .
The idea of designating specific military aircraft to  हस्तांतरण the अध्यक्ष arose  in 1943 , when officials of the United States Army Air Forces – the predecessor to the U.S. Air Force – became concerned with relying on commercial airlines to transport the President .
A C-87 Liberator  एक्स्प्रेस थी reconfigured लिये उपयोग as a अध्यक्षीय हस्तांतरण  ; however , it was rejected by the Secret Service amid concerns over the aircraft 's safety record .
A C-54 Skymaster was then converted for presidential use ; this  वायुयान , उतावले the पवित्र गाय , transported अध्यक्ष फ्रैंकलिन D. रूज़वेल्ट  to the Yalta Conference in February 1945 , and was subsequently used for another two years by President Harry S. Truman .
The `` Air Force One '' call sign was created  बाद a 1953 घटना दौरान जिससे a उड़ान carrying अध्यक्ष ड्वाइट D. आइज़नहावर डाला the वही airspace  as a commercial airline flight using the same call sign .
Several aircraft have been used as Air Force One since the creation of the presidential fleet , including two Boeing 707s introduced in the 1960s and 1970s , respectively ; since 1990 , the presidential fleet has  consisted of दो बोइंग vc-25as – specifically विन्यस्त , अत्यधिक customized बोइंग 747-200b श्रेणी वायुयान  .
The  एयर फ़ोर्स is looking into replacing  the two VC-25 aircraft with three replacement aircraft beginning in 2017 .
A wedding anniversary is the  वर्षगांठ of the तिथि  a wedding took place .
Traditional names exist  लिये सबसे of उन्हें : लिये उदाहरण  , 50 years of marriage is called a `` golden wedding anniversary '' or simply a `` golden anniversary '' .
A scanner  साथ duplexing स्वचालित  Document Feeder .
In multifunction or all-in-one printers , fax machines , photocopiers and scanners , an automatic document  फीडर or adf is a विशेषता जिससे takes अनेक पृष्ठों और फ़ीड्स the पेपर एक पेज at a समय into a स्कैनर or कॉपियर  , allowing the user to scan , and thereby copy , print , or fax , multiple-page documents without having to manually replace each page .
Most copiers allow scanning on the flatbed or platen ( the `` glass  '' ) or through a दस्तावेज़ फीडर  .
The vast majority of fax machines have  an adf , allowing the unattended sending  of multi-page faxes .
Due to the ubiquity of ADF in fax machines , some fax machine owners use the fax machine as a  स्कैनर , faxing multi-page दस्तावेज़ to  themselves .
Document feeders are described  by गति , in पृष्ठों प्रति मिनट or ppm , और क्षमता ,  usually in a range from 10 sheets to 200 .
There are two kinds of document feeders capable of two-sided ( duplex ) scanning : a reversing automatic document feeder or RADF scans one side of a page , then flips it  और scans the अन्य  side .
A duplexing automatic document feeder or DADF  scans दोनो पहलू  in one pass .
The  लाभ of the  DADF is faster speed for two-sided originals .
RADFs and DADFs are rated in images per minute ( IPM ) , the number  of पहलू वे can स्कैन प्रत्येक  minute .
Fair Park is a recreational and educational complex  स्तिथ in डलास , टेक्सास ( यूएसए  ) .
The complex is registered  as a डलास लैंडमार्क , नेशनल ऐतिहासिक लैंडमार्क और is घर  to nine museums , six performance facilities , a lagoon , and the largest Ferris wheel in North America .
Many of the buildings on the complex were  constructed लिये the टेक्सास centennial  Exposition in 1936 which drew over six million visitors .
Most of the buildings built for the exposition still survive and  it is पहचाना as a significant उदाहरण of आर्ट  Deco architecture .
Fair Park has been designated a Great Place in America by the  अमरीकी नियोजन संघ  .
The American Planning Association ( APA ) “is  an स्वतंत्र , not-for-profit शैक्षणिक  organization that provides leadership in the development of vital communities.”
The Great Places in American program helps to celebrate  क्षेत्रों साथ “exemplary अक्षर , विशेषता  , and planning.”
होने designated as a ग्रेट प्लेस  in America , Fair Park was one of only ten cities chosen in 2011 .
San Jose ( ; Spanish : St. Joseph ) is the third-largest city in California , the tenth-largest in the U.S. , and the  काउंटी सीट of सांता क्लारा काउंटी जिससे is स्तिथ at the दक्षिणी समाप्त of सैन फ्रांसिस्को  Bay .
San Jose is the largest city within Silicon Valley ,  जिससे is a प्रमुख घटक of the वृहद सैन फ्रांसिस्को खाड़ी क्षेत्रफल , a प्रदेश of  8.4 million people and the fifth largest metropolitan area ( CSA ) in the United States .
It is the  largest नगर in उत्तरी  California .
San Jose was founded on November 29 , 1777 , as  el pueblo de सैन जोस de guadalupe , the पहला civilian कस्बा  in the Spanish colony of Nueva California , which later became Alta California .
The city served as a farming community to support Spanish  सैन्य संस्थापना at सैन फ्रांसिस्को  and Monterey .
When California gained statehood in 1850 , San Jose served as  इसके पहला पूंजी  .
After more than 150 years as a small farming city , San Jose and  the surrounding सांता क्लारा घाटी became the पिछला ( और largest ) संलग्न  area of undeveloped land surrounding the San Francisco Bay .
San Jose  अनुभवी increased  demand for housing from soldiers and veterans returning from World War II .
San Jose then continued its aggressive  विस्तार दौरान the 1950s और  1960s by annexing more land area .
The rapid growth of  the high-technology और इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स उद्योग  further accelerated the transition from an agricultural center , to an urbanized metropolitan area .
by the 1990s , सैन जोस 's स्थान भीतर the booming लोकल प्रौद्योगिकी  industry earned the city its nickname , Capital of Silicon Valley .
San Jose now maintains global city status  और is the largest नगर in the सैन फ्रांसिस्को खाड़ी क्षेत्रफल in शर्तें  of population , land area , and industrial development .
The U.S. Census Bureau  reported the जनसांख्यिकी of the नगर  to be 945,942 as of the 2010 Census .
As of April 2013 , the  अनुमानित जनसांख्यिकी of सैन  Jose was 984,000 .
San Jose , along with the Santa Clara Valley ,  अनुभवी परिचय हाफ a सदी of spectacular suburban sprawl , साथ विशेषताएँ  of intense urbanization similar to the Los Angeles area of Southern California .
The city has taken definite steps to  avoid बनने `` l.A.  North '' .
However , the  sprawl in सैन जोस is बदतर than in  Los Angeles by measures such as population density and public transit safety , investment , and ridership .
Europe depicted by Antwerp cartographer  अब्राहम  Ortelius in 1595
The history of Europe covers the people inhabiting the European continent since it was first populated in prehistoric times to present ,  साथ the पहला होमो sapiens arriving between 45,000 और 25,000  BC .
The earliest settlers to  प्रागैतिहासिक यूरोपीय आए दौरान the  paleolithic era .
The arrival of  कृषि around 7000 bc ushered in  the neolithic age .
पाषाणकालीन यूरोपीय lasted लिये 4000 सालो , अतिव्यापी  with metal-using cultures that gradually spread throughout the continent .
Technological advances during the prehistoric age tended to arrive from the Middle East ,  spreading धीरे to the उत्तरपश्चिम  .
Some of the best-known civilizations of prehistoric Europe were Minoan and Mycenaean , which flourished  दौरान the कांस्य आयु जबतक वे collapsed  in a short period of time around 1200 BC .
The period known as classical antiquity began with the  वृद्धि of the city-states of प्राचीन  Greece .
Greek influence reached its zenith  अंतर्गत the expansive साम्राज्य  of Alexander the Great , spreading throughout Asia .
Northern and  पश्चिमी यूरोपीय यहूद वर्चस्व by  the La Tène culture , a precursor to the Celts .
Rome , a small  city-state traditionally संस्थापित in 753 bc ,  would grow to become the Roman Republic in 509 BC and would succeed Greek culture as the dominant Mediterranean civilization .
The events of the rule of Julius Caesar led to  reorganization of the गणतंत्र into  the Roman Empire .
The empire was later divided  by the सम्राट diocletian into  the Western and Eastern empires .
During the later years of the Roman Empire , the Germanic peoples of northern Europe grew in  शक्ति और दोहराया हमले led to the पतन of the पश्चिमी रोमन साम्राज्य in ad 476 , a तिथि जिससे traditionally marks the समाप्त of the शास्त्रीय काल और  the start of the Middle Ages .
During the Middle  आयु , the पूर्वी रोमन साम्राज्य बच  , though modern historians refer to this state as the Byzantine Empire .
in पश्चिमी यूरोपीय , germanic peoples स्थानांतरित into स्थितियाँ  of power in the remnants of the former Western Roman Empire and established kingdoms and empires of their own .
Of all  of the germanic peoples , the franks होता वृद्धि to a स्थिति of  Hegemony over western Europe , the Frankish Empire reaching its peak under Charlemagne around AD 800 .
Francia was divided into several parts ; West Francia would evolve into the Kingdom of France , while East Francia would evolve into the Holy Roman Empire ,  a precursor to आधुनिक जर्मनी  .
The British Isles  यहूद the साईट of अनेक large-scale  migrations .
Native Celtic peoples had been  अधिकारहीन दौरान the काल of रोमन ब्रिटेन , और जब the romans abandoned  the British Isles during the 400s , waves of Germanic Anglo-Saxons migrated to southern Britain and established a series of petty kingdoms in what would eventually develop into the Kingdom of England by AD 927 .
During this period , the Kingdom of Poland and Kingdom of  हंगेरियाई ( 1000–1945 ) यहूद व्यवस्थित  as well .
The Viking Age , a period of migrations  of scandinavian peoples , वर्चस्व  the period from the late 700s to the middle 1000s .
Chief among the Viking states was the Empire of Cnut the Great , a Danish leader who  होता become किंग of इंग्लैण्ड , डेनमार्क , और  Norway .
The Normans , a  viking लोगों जो settled in उत्तरी फ़्रांस और संस्थापित the duchy of normandy  , would have a significant impact on many parts of Europe , from the Norman conquest of England to Southern Italy and Sicily .
Another Scandinavian people , the  rus ' लोगों , होता go on to मिला kievan rus ' , an जल्दी राज्य जिससे  was a precursor for the modern country of Russia .
As the Viking Age drew to a close , the period known as the Crusades , a series of religiously-motivated military expeditions  originally intended to लाओ the levant वापस into  Christian rule , began .
अनेक जेहादी राज्य  were founded in the eastern Mediterranean .
These were all  short-lived  .
The Crusaders would have a profound  प्रभाव on अनेक भाग of यूरोपीय  .
Their Sack of  कुस्तुंतुनिया in 1204 brought an abrupt समाप्त to the  Byzantine Empire .
Extinct dog  breeds is a संकलन  of dog breeds that have become extinct .
Wii Speak is a  माइक्रोफोन accessory लिये निन्टेंडो  's Wii video game console .
कनेक्ट to the कंसोल via usb , the यंत्र  can be placed near the video display , allowing voice chat to be conducted with the entire room .
The device  सुविधाएँ an led to indicate  when the microphone is active .
Wii Speak was  घोषित at निन्टेंडो 's  2008 E3 media briefing .
It was released separately and bundled with Animal Crossing :  नगर लोक on नवम्बर 16 , 2008 , in उत्तर अमेरिका  , and was released on December 5 , 2008 , in Europe .
The Wii Speak accessory is succeeded by the embedded microphone on the  वी u 's gamepad नियंत्रक  .
निसान बुद्धिमान  Key®
A smart key is an electronic access and authorization system which is  उपलब्धियाँ as an विकल्प or मानक in अनेक गाड़ियाँ  .
It was  पहला विकसित by siemens in the mid-1990s और introduced  by Mercedes-Benz under the name `` Keyless Go '' in 1998 on the W220 S-Class following its design patent filed by Daimler-Benz on May 17 , 1997 .
Univisión ( ) is a Spanish-language  टेलीविज़न संजाल in the  United States .
The network is primarily dedicated for Latin American families who  reside in the संयुक्त राज्य .
It has the  largest दर्शक of spanish-language टेलीविज़न  viewers in the world according to Nielsen ratings .
Randy Falco , ( CEO as of June 29 , 2011 ) COO , has been in  चार्ज of the कम्पनी चूंकि the प्रस्थान of univision संचार अध्यक्ष और सीईओ जो uva in अप्रैल  2010 .
In recent years the network has reached parity with the U.S. 's five major  english-language टेलीविज़न संजाल , और is प्रायः a दमदार पांचवां , outranking the cw , साथ कुछ fourth-place साप्ताहिक placings , और as of  2012 , even first place rankings for individual programs over all five English networks due to the network 's consistent schedule of new telenovelas all 52 weeks of the year .
Univisión is headquartered in New York , and has its major studios , production facilities , and operations in  doral , फ्लोरिडा , a उपनगरीय of मियामी  .
In 2009 , another television studio was announced ,  univision studios , to be निर्मित in  Doral .
Univision is available on cable and satellite in most of the country , with local  स्टेशन in over 50 बाज़ार साथ विशाल हिस्पैनिक और लातीनी populations और a नेशनल केबल संजाल फीड वितरित  in markets without either the availability or the demand for a locally-based station .
Most of these stations air full local news and other local programming  in जोड to संजाल shows , और in प्रमुख बाज़ार ऐसे as लॉस एंजिल्स , नई यॉर्क , और मियामी the लोकल newscasts carried by the संजाल  's owned-and-operated station ( O & O ) stations are equally competitive with their English-language counterparts ratings-wise .
Univisión was acquired on March 29 , 2007 by a  consortium led by haim saban 's  Saban Capital Group ( who had previously owned the entity Saban Entertainment ) , TPG Capital , L.P. , Providence Equity Partners , Madison Dearborn Partners , and Thomas H. Lee Partners for $ 13.7 billion or $ 36.25 per share plus $ 1.4 billion in acquired debt .
The buyout  बाएँ the कम्पनी साथ a कर्ज़ स्तर of  twelve times its annual cash flow , which was twice the norm in buyouts done over the previous two years .
Artist 's  धारणा of a आदिग्रह  disk
The  गठन और of the सौर प्रणाली is अनुमानित to  have begun 4.6 billion years ago with the gravitational collapse of a small part of a giant molecular cloud .
Most of the collapsing mass collected in the centre , forming the Sun , while the  बाकी flattened into a आदिग्रह डिस्क आउट of जिससे the ग्रह , moons , क्षुद्रग्रह , और  other small Solar System bodies formed .
This widely accepted model , known as the nebular hypothesis , was first developed in the 18th century by Emanuel  swedenborg , immanuel kant , और  Pierre-Simon Laplace .
Its subsequent  विकास रै interwoven a किस्में  of scientific disciplines including astronomy , physics , geology , and planetary science .
Since the dawn of the  स्पेस आयु in the 1950s और the डिस्कवरी of extrasolar  planets in the 1990s , the model has been both challenged and refined to account for new observations .
The Solar System has evolved  considerably चूंकि इसके  initial formation .
Many moons have formed from circling discs of gas and dust around their parent planets , while  अन्य moons हैं विचार to have formed independently और बाद महरूम captured  by their planets .
Still  अन्य , as the धरती 's चंद्रमा  , may be the result of giant collisions .
Collisions between bodies have  occurred continually up to the उपस्थित दिन और have  been central to the evolution of the Solar System .
The positions of the planets often shifted , and  ग्रह have switched स्थान  .
This planetary migration is  अभी विचार to have महरूम जिम्मेदार लिये much of the सौर प्रणाली 's  early evolution .
In roughly 5 billion  सालो , the सूर्य होगा कूल और विस्तार outward अनेक टाइम्स इसके वर्तमान व्यास ( बनने a रेड  giant ) , before casting off its outer layers as a planetary nebula and leaving behind a stellar remnant known as a white dwarf .
In the far distant future , the gravity of passing stars will  धीरे reduce the सूर्य 's retinue of ग्रह  .
Some  ग्रह होगा be नष्ट  , others ejected into interstellar space .
Ultimately , over the course of tens of billions of  सालो , it is संभावित  that the Sun will be left with none of the original bodies in orbit around it .
The Trial ( Kafka 's original German title : , later as , and  ) is a अनोखा लिखा by फ्रांज काफ्का in 1914 और 1915 लकिन नहीं  published until 1925 .
एक of काफ्का 's best-known works ,  it tells the story of a man arrested and prosecuted by a remote , inaccessible authority , with the nature of his crime revealed to neither him nor the reader .
Like Kafka 's other novels  , the विचारण थी never समाप्त , हालांकि  it does include a chapter which brings the story to an end .
Because of this there are certain inconsistencies which exist within the  अनोखा , ऐसे as असमानताओं in समय in जोड  to other discontinuities in narration .
After Kafka 's death in 1924 his friend and  साहित्यिक executor अधिकतम brod संपादित the टेक्स्ट लिये  publication by Verlag Die Schmiede .
The original manuscript is held at the Museum  of आधुनिक साहित्य , marbach am neckar , जर्मनी  .
In 1999 , the book was listed in Le Mondes 100 Books of  the सदी और as no . 2 of the बेहतरीन जर्मनी novels of the  Twentieth Century .
Lisa Anne Loeb ( born March  11 , 1968 ) is an अमरीकी singer-songwriter  and actress .
She  शुभारम्भ उसके करियर in 1994 साथ the सोंग  , `` Stay ( I Missed You ) `` , which was included in the film Reality Bites .
She was the first  कलाकार to have a क्रमांक एक सिंगल in the संयुक्त राज्य  while not signed to a recording contract .
Her five studio CDs include her major label debut , the  gold-selling tails और इसके follow-up , the grammy-nominated , gold-selling पटाखा  .
Loeb has also  worked in  film , television , voice-over work and children’s recordings .
Loeb has appeared in  दो टेलीविज़न श्रेणी , dweezil & लिसा , a साप्ताहिक culinary  adventure for the Food Network and Number 1 Single , a reality show on the E !
Network in 2006 focused on her  क्वेस्ट लिये प्रेम , कामयाबी , करियर , और  family .
Her  children 's म्यूज़िक शामिल the  albums Catch the Moon ( 2003 ) , and Camp Lisa ( 2008 ) .
Her first joint children 's book and album Lisa Loeb 's Silly Sing-Along : The  निराशाजनक पैनकेक और अन्य zany गीतों थी प्रकाशित in 2011  .
In 2010 she founded the Lisa Loeb Eyewear  संग्रहण , जिससे is आधारित on  her own designs .
The Coat of arms of the  राज्य of नई जर्सी  includes:
A shield with three plows  emblazoned , प्रतिनिधि of नई जर्सी 's agricultural  tradition .
A  forward-facing  knight 's helmet .
A horse  's सिर as the crest  of the helmet .
The  मादा आंकड़े स्वतंत्रता  and Ceres , representative of the state 's motto ( see next item ) .
Liberty is holding a staff supporting a  `` स्वतंत्रता कैप `` ; ceres is पकड़कर  an overflowing cornucopia .
The streamer at the foot of the emblem contains the State Motto of New Jersey , ``  स्वतंत्रता और समृद्धि '' , और the साल of statehood , 1776  .
It was originally designed by  पियरे यूजीन du simitiere in 1777 और थी  modified slightly in 1928 .
The seal is the  सेंट्रल मोटिफ in the ध्वज of नई जर्सी और the  Great Seal of the State of New Jersey .
The  कोट of बाहें  contains a horse 's head .
A helmet showing that New Jersey governs itself accordingly and three plows  on a शील्ड referring to the राज्य 's कृषि  tradition , giving it the nickname `` Garden State '' .
The two Goddesses represent the State  motto , `` स्वतंत्रता और समृद्धि  '' .
Liberty is on  the बाएँ  .
She is holding a staff with a liberty  कैप on it , और the शब्द स्वतंत्रता  underneath her .
The goddess on the  सही is ceres , देवी of  agriculture .
She is holding a  cornucopia साथ समृद्धि लिखा  below her .
According  to the मिनट्स of the नई जर्सी सामान्य सभा लिये कूच 11 , 1896 , the तिथि in जिससे  the Assembly officially approved the flag as the state emblem , the buff color is due indirectly to George Washington , who had ordered on October 2 , 1779 , that the uniform coats of the New Jersey Continental Line be dark ( Jersey ) blue , with buff facings .
buff-colored facings था जबतक तब महरूम सुरक्षित तभी लिये  his own uniform and those of other Continental generals and their aides .
Then , on February 28 , 1780 , the Continental War Officers  in फिलाडेल्फिया निर्देशित कि the वर्दी कोट facings of सब regiments यहूद  to be the same as the background color of the regiments ' state flag .
The seal is described in New  जर्सी statute शीर्षक 52  , §2-1:
`` We Can Work It Out '' is a song by the  बीटल्स , लिखा by पॉल mccartney  and John Lennon .
It was released as a ``  दोगुना a-sided `` सिंगल साथ `` दिन tripper  `` , the first time both sides of a single were so designated in an initial release .
Both songs were recorded  दौरान the रबर आत्मा सत्र  .
The song is an example of Lennon–McCartney collaboration at a depth that happened only rarely after  वे लिखा the hit singles of  1963 .
This  सोंग , `` a दिन in the जीवन `` , ``  Baby , You 're a Rich Man `` and `` I 've Got a Feeling `` , are among the notable exceptions .
As a medical diagnosis , pedophilia or paedophilia is a  मनोरोग विकार in व्यक्तियों 16 सालो of आयु or पुरानी typically characterized by a प्राथमिक or विशेष यौन ब्याज  toward prepubescent children ( generally age 11 years or younger , though specific diagnosis criteria for the disorder extends the cut-off point for prepubescence to age 13 ) .
An adolescent who is 16 years of age or  पुरानी जरूर be at तनिक पाँच सालो पुरानी than  the prepubescent child before the attraction can be diagnosed as pedophilia .
The term  रै a दायरा of परिभाषाएं , as मिला  in psychiatry , psychology , the vernacular , and law enforcement .
The International Classification of Diseases ( ICD ) defines pedophilia as a `` disorder of adult personality and behaviour  '' in जिससे वहीँ is a यौन वरीयता लिये children of prepubertal or जल्दी pubertal  age .
According to the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders ( DSM  ) , it is a paraphilia in जिससे वयस्कों or adolescents 16 सालो of आयु or पुरानी have तीव्र और तूल यौन प्रेरणाएं towards  and fantasies about prepubescent children that they have either acted on or which cause them distress or interpersonal difficulty .
In popular  उपयोग , pedophilia अर्थात् कोई यौन ब्याज in  children or the act of child sexual abuse , often termed `` pedophilic behavior '' .
For example , The American Heritage Stedman 's Medical Dictionary states , `` Pedophilia is the act  or काल्पनिक on the भाग of an वयस्क of engaging in यौन कार्यकलाप साथ a चाइल्ड  or children . ''
This common use application also extends to  the यौन ब्याज in और यौन सम्पर्क साथ रोमिल or  post-pubescent minors .
Researchers  सुझाएँ कि ये imprecise उपयोग be avoided क्युकी हालांकि लोगों जो कमिट चाइल्ड यौन गाली commonly प्रदर्शनी  the disorder , some offenders do not meet the clinical diagnosis standards for pedophilia and these standards pertain to prepubescents .
Additionally , not  सब pedophiles दरअसल कमिट ऐसे  abuse .
Pedophilia  थी पहला formally पहचाना  and named in the late 19th century .
A significant amount of research in the area has taken  प्लेस चूंकि the 1980s  .
Although mostly documented in men , there are also women who  प्रदर्शनी the विकार , और शोधकर्ताओं assume उपलब्धियाँ  estimates underrepresent the true number of female pedophiles .
No cure for pedophilia has been developed , but there are therapies that can  reduce the incidence of a व्यक्ति committing  child sexual abuse .
In the United States , following Kansas v. Hendricks , sex offenders who are diagnosed with  निश्चित दिमागी विकार , विशेषकर pedophilia , can be विषय to indefinite सिविल प्रतिबद्धता , अंतर्गत विभिन्न राज्य कानून  ( generically called SVP laws ) and the federal Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act of 2006 .
At present , the exact causes of pedophilia  have नहीं महरूम conclusively स्थापित  .
Research suggests that pedophilia  may be correlated साथ अनेक अलग neurological  abnormalities , and often co-exists with other personality disorders and psychological pathologies .
In the contexts of forensic psychology and law enforcement , a variety of  typologies have महरूम सुझाया to categorize pedophiles  according to behavior and motivations .
Julio César  chávez ( born जूलियो césar chávez  González on July 12 , 1962 ) is a retired Mexican professional boxer .
Chávez is  माना by अनेक लोगों  for their sport statistics the greatest fighter ever to come out of Mexico .
He is a six-time  संसार चैंपियन in तीन वज़न विभाजन , और लिये अनेक सालो he थी माना  one of the best pound-for-pound boxer in the world .
In a career that spanned over 25 years , Chávez won five world titles in three weight  विभाजन : wbc सुपर featherweight in 1984 , wba lightweight in  1987 , WBC Lightweight in 1988 , WBC Light Welterweight in 1989 , IBF Light Welterweight in 1990 , and WBC Light Welterweight in 1994 .
He holds records for most successful consecutive defenses of  संसार शीर्षक ( 27 ) , सबसे शीर्षक झगड़े ( 37 ) , सबसे title-fight victories ( 31 ) और he  is after Joe Louis with ( 23 ) for most title defenses won by knockout ( 21 ) .
Chávez also has the  longest अपराजित streak in मुक्केबाज़ी इतिहास  , 13 years .
His record was 89-0-1 going into his  पहला घाटा to फ्रेंकी रान्डेल और था an 87 लड़ो जीत streak जबतक  his `` draw '' with Whitaker .
Julio César Chávez was known for his outstanding punching power , devastating body  आक्रमण , remarkably दमदार  chin and the relentless stalking of his opponents .
He ranks #  24 on ईएसपीएन 's 50 महानतम  Boxers Of All Time .
On December 7 ,  2010 , he थी inducted in the prestigious अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Boxing Hall of Fame for the Class of 2011 .
He is the father of  prospect ओमर chávez  and former WBC Middleweight Champion Julio César Chávez , Jr .
`` Selektion `` on the  judenrampe , auschwitz , may/june  1944 .
to be भेजा to the सही meant  slave labor ; to the left , the gas chamber .
इस चित्र shows the आगमन  of Hungarian Jews from Carpatho-Ruthenia , many of them from the Berehov ghetto .
The photographer  थी अर्नस्ट hofmann or बर्नहार्ड वाल्टर  of the SS . Image courtesy of Yad Vashem
The Holocaust ( from the Greek ' : hólos , `` whole '' and kaustós , `` burnt '' ) also known as the Shoah ( Hebrew : , HaShoah , `` catastrophe '' ; Yiddish : ,  churben or hurban , इससे the यहूदी लिये `` विनाश '' ) , थी the  mass murder or genocide of approximately six million Jews during World War II , a programme of systematic state-sponsored murder by Nazi Germany , led by Adolf Hitler and the Nazi Party , throughout German-occupied territory .
Of the nine million Jews who had  resided in यूरोपीय पहले the holocaust  , approximately two-thirds were killed .
Over one million Jewish children were killed  in the holocaust  , as were approximately two million Jewish women and three million Jewish men .
A network of over  40,000 सुविधाएं in जर्मनी और german-occupied territory  were used to concentrate , hold , and kill Jews and other victims .
Some scholars argue that the mass murder of the Romani and people with disabilities should be included in the definition  , और कुछ उपयोग the आम संज्ञा `` holocaust '' to describe अन्य नाजी द्रव्यमान हत्याएं , सहित those of सोवियत बंदियों of युद्ध , पॉलिश और सोवियत  civilians , and homosexuals .
Recent estimates based on figures obtained since the fall of the Soviet Union indicates some ten to eleven million  नागरिकों और बंदियों of युद्ध यहूद intentionally  murdered by the Nazi regime .
The persecution and genocide were carried  आउट in चरण  .
Various laws to remove the Jews from civil society , most prominently the  nuremberg कानून , यहूद enacted in जर्मनी सालो पहले the outbreak  of World War II .
Concentration camps were established in  जिससे inmates यहूद वशीभूत to स्लेव मजदूर जबतक वे died  of exhaustion or disease .
Where Germany conquered new territory in eastern Europe , specialized units  पुकारा einsatzgruppen murdered यहूदियों  and political opponents in mass shootings .
The occupiers required Jews and Romani to be confined in overcrowded ghettos before being transported by freight train to extermination camps where , if they survived the journey , most were  systematically मारे in गैस  chambers .
Every arm of Germany 's bureaucracy was involved in the logistics that  led to the genocides , turning the तीसरा reich into कया एक  Holocaust scholar has called `` a genocidal state '' .
4-H in the United States is a youth organization administered by the National Institute of  खाना और कृषि of the संयुक्त राज्य विभाग of कृषि ( यूएसडीए ) , साथ the मिशन of  `` engaging youth to reach their fullest potential while advancing the field of youth development . ''
The name  represents चार निजी विकास क्षेत्रों of फ़ोकस लिये the  organization : head , heart , hands , and health .
The organization has over 6.5  लाख सदस्यों in the संयुक्त राज्य , इससे  ages five to twenty-one , in approximately 90,000 clubs .
The goal of 4-H is to develop citizenship , leadership , responsibility and  जीवन कौशल of युवावस्था through experiential सीखना कार्यक्रम  and a positive youth development approach .
Though typically thought of as an agriculturally focused organization as a result of its history , 4-H today focuses on  नागरिकता , स्वस्थ जीना , विज्ञान , अभियान्त्रिकी , और  technology programs .
Today , 4-H and related programs exist in over eighty countries  around the संसार ; the संगठन और प्रशासन  varies from country to country .
Each of these programs operates independently , but cooperatively through international exchanges ,  वैश्विक शिक्षा कार्यक्रम , और संचार  .
The 4-H motto is `` To  मेक the बेहतरीन बेहतर '' , जबकि इसके स्लोगन  is `` Learn by doing '' ( sometimes written as `` Learn to do by doing '' ) .
The national flag of Chile , consists of two unequal horizontal  bands of श्वेत और रेड और a ब्लू वर्गाकार the वही ऊँचाई as the  white band in the canton , which bears a white five-pointed star in the center .
It was adopted on  18 अक्तूबर 1817  .
The Chilean flag is also known in Spanish as  la estrella solitaria ( the  Lone Star ) .
The star represents a guide to progress and honor ; blue symbolizes the sky and the  प्रशांत समंदर , श्वेत is लिये the snow-covered andes , और रेड स्टैंड लिये the रक्त  spilled to achieve independence .
According to the epic poem  la araucana  , the colors were derived from those from the flag flown by the Mapuche during the Arauco War .
`` Flag Day '' is held each year  on the नवीं of जुलाई to commemorate the 77 सैनिको  who died in the 1882 Battle of La Concepción .
Generation Y , also known as the Millennial Generation  , is the जनसांख्यिकी  cohort following Generation X .
There are no precise  तिथियाँ लिये जब पीढी  Y starts and ends .
Commentators  उपयोग शुरूआत जनम तिथियाँ  from the latter 1970s , or from the early 1980s to the early 2000s .
The Torches of  नीरो , by henryk  Siemiradzki .
According  to tacitus , नीरो targeted ईसाइयों  as those responsible for the fire .
The Great Fire of Rome ( ) was an  शहरी आग कि occurred शुरूआत  19 July AD 64 .
Virginia ( ) , officially the  राष्ट्रमंडल of वर्जिनिया , is  a U.S. state located in the South Atlantic region of the United States .
वर्जिनिया is nicknamed the `` बूढ़ा  Dominion '' and the `` Mother of Presidents '' after the eight U.S. presidents born there .
The geography and climate  of the राष्ट्रमंडल हैं तराशा by the ब्लू लकीरें  Mountains and the Chesapeake Bay , which provide habitat for much of its flora and fauna .
The capital of  the राष्ट्रमंडल is  Richmond ; and Virginia Beach is the most populous city .
फेयरफैक्स काउंटी is the सबसे  populous political subdivision .
The wealthiest is  loudoun काउंटी  .
The  राष्ट्रमंडल 's जनसांख्यिकी  is over eight million .
The area 's history begins with several indigenous groups ,  सहित the powhatan .
In 1607 the  लंदन कम्पनी स्थापित the उपनिवेश of वर्जिनिया  as the first permanent New World English colony .
Slave labor and the land acquired  इससे विस्थापित देशी अमरीकी  tribes each played a significant role in the colony 's early politics and plantation economy .
Virginia was one of the 13 Colonies  in the अमरीकी क्रान्ति और joined the confederacy in the अमरीकी सिविल युद्ध  , during which Richmond was made the Confederate capital and Virginia 's northwestern counties seceded to form the state of West Virginia .
हालांकि the राष्ट्रमंडल थी अंतर्गत रूढ़िवादी single-party नियम  for nearly a century following Reconstruction , both major national parties are competitive in modern Virginia .
The Virginia  सामान्य सभा is the oldest  legislature in the Western Hemisphere .
The state government has been repeatedly ranked  सबसे प्रभावी by the pew  Center on the States .
It is unique in how it treats cities and counties equally , manages local roads  , और prohibits इसके राज्यपालों इससे सेवारत लगातार शर्तें  .
Virginia 's economy has many sectors : agriculture in the Shenandoah Valley ; federal agencies in Northern Virginia ,  सहित the मुख्यालय of the विभाग of रक्षा और सीआईए ; और सैन्य सुविधाएं in हैम्पटन सड़कें , the  site of the region 's main seaport .
Virginia 's public schools and many colleges and  विश्वविद्यालयों have contributed to growing मीडिया  and technology sectors .
As a result , computer  चिप्स have  become the state 's leading export .
Windows Movie Maker ( formerly known as Windows Live Movie Maker , codenamed Sundance ) is a  फ्रीवेयर वीडियो संपादन तन्त्र by microsoft  .
It is a part of Windows Essentials software suite and offers the  क्षमता to  create and edit videos as well as to publish them on SkyDrive , Facebook , YouTube , and Flickr .
`` Brenda 's Got A Baby '' is the solo debut single  by तुपाक shakur , और  tenth track from his debut album , 2Pacalypse Now .
The song , which features R & B singer Dave Hollister , is about a twelve year-old girl named Brenda who lives in a ghetto ,  रै a baby , और is incapable of supporting  it .
The song  explores the समस्या of टीन गर्भावस्था और इसके  effect on the young mothers and their families .
Like many of Shakur 's songs , `` Brenda 's Got a  baby '' draws इससे the दुर्दशा of the impoverished  .
Using Brenda to represent young mothers in general , Shakur criticises the  कम स्तर of support इससे the baby 's पिता , the सरकारी  , and society in general .
Shakur wrote the song when he read a newspaper article about a twelve-year-old girl who  मिला गर्भवती इससे उसके cousin और , क्युकी वो किया नहीं want उसके अभिभावक to जान परिचय  the baby , threw it in a trash can .
The official logo of Pokémon  लिये इसके अंतरराष्ट्रीय रिलीज ; `` पोकीमॉन '' is छोटी लिये the असली  Japanese title of `` Pocket Monsters '' .
is a media franchise  प्रकाशित और स्वामित्व by जापानी वीडियो  game company Nintendo and created by Satoshi Tajiri in 1996 .
Originally released as a pair of interlinkable Game Boy role-playing video games developed by Game Freak  , पोकीमॉन रै चूंकि become the second-most कामयाब और lucrative वीडियो game-based मीडिया मताधिकार in  the world , behind only Nintendo 's own Mario franchise .
Pokémon properties have since been merchandised into anime , manga , trading cards  , खिलौने , किताबे , और अन्य  media .
The franchise  मनाये  in 2006 , and , cumulative sales of the video games ( including home console versions , such as the `` Pikachu '' Nintendo 64 ) have reached more than 200 million copies .
In November 2005 , 4Kids Entertainment , which had managed the  non-game सम्बन्धित लाइसेंसिंग of पोकीमॉन , घोषित  that it had agreed not to renew the Pokémon representation agreement .
Pokémon USA Inc. ( now The Pokémon Company  अंतरराष्ट्रीय ) , a subsidiary of जापानी 's पोकीमॉन co. , अभी oversees सब पोकीमॉन लाइसेंसिंग  outside of Asia .
The name Pokémon is the romanized contraction of  the जापानी ब्रांड  .
The term Pokémon , in addition to referring to the Pokémon franchise itself , also collectively refers to the 649 fictional species that have made appearances in Pokémon media as of the release of the fifth generation titles Pokémon Black 2 and White 2 ;  साथ the आगामी रिलीज of पोकीमॉन x और y , 6 नई पोकीमॉन have महरूम प्रदर्शित in प्रचार लिये the खेल .
`` Pokémon '' is identical in both the singular and plural , as is each  व्यक्तिगत प्रजाति नाम ; it is grammatically सही to कह ``  one Pokémon '' and `` many Pokémon '' , as well as `` one Pikachu `` and `` many Pikachu '' .
कवर of the पहला संस्करण of  the publication Dada by Tristan Tzara ; Zurich , 1917
Dada ( ) or Dadaism was an  आर्ट गति of the यूरोपीय avant-garde  in the early 20th century .
Many claim Dada began in Zurich , Switzerland in  1916 , spreading to बर्लिन shortly thereafter  but the height of New York Dada was the year before in 1915 .
To quote Dona  budd 's the भाषा of आर्ट ज्ञान , दादा  was born out of negative reaction to the horrors of World War I .
This international movement was begun  by a समूह of कलाकार और कवियों संबद्ध साथ the  Cabaret Voltaire in Zurich .
Dada rejected reason  और लॉजिक , prizing बकवास  , irrationality and intuition .
The origin of the  नाम दादा is unclear  ; some believe that it is a nonsensical word .
अन्य maintain कि it originates इससे the रोमानियाई कलाकारों ट्रिस्टन  Tzara and Marcel Janco 's frequent use of the words da , da , meaning yes , yes in the Romanian language .
Another theory says that the name `` Dada '' came during a meeting of the group when a paper knife stuck into a  french-german शब्दकोष happened to पाइंट to 'डैडa  ' , a French word for 'hobbyhorse ' .
The movement primarily  शामिल विज़ुअल कला , साहित्य , काव्य , आर्ट manifestoes , आर्ट सिद्धान्त , थिएटर , और ग्राफिक डिज़ाइन  , and concentrated its anti-war politics through a rejection of the prevailing standards in art through anti-art cultural works .
In addition to being anti-war , Dada was also anti- bourgeois and had  राजनैतिक affinities साथ the  radical left .
Dada  क्रियाएँ शामिल पब्लिक महफिलों , demonstrations , और प्रकाशन of  art/literary journals ; passionate coverage of art , politics , and culture were topics often discussed in a variety of media .
Key figures in the movement included Hugo Ball , Emmy Hennings , Hans Arp , Raoul Hausmann , Hannah Höch , Johannes Baader , Tristan Tzara , Francis Picabia , Richard  huelsenbeck , georg grosz , जॉन heartfield , मार्सल duchamp , beatrice लकडी , कर्ट schwitters , और hans रिक्टर , among अन्य  .
The  गति बहकावे बाद शैलियाँ जैसे the  avant-garde and downtown music movements , and groups including surrealism , Nouveau réalisme , pop art and Fluxus .
Dada is the groundwork to abstract art and sound poetry , a starting point for performance art , a prelude to postmodernism , an  influence on पॉप आर्ट , a जश्न of antiart to be बाद embraced लिये  anarcho-political uses in the 1960s and the movement that lay the foundation for Surrealism .
First  trophic स्तर  .
The plants in this image , and  the शैवाल और phytoplankton  in the lake , are primary producers .
They take  nutrients इससे the मृदा or the जल , और manufacture  their own food by photosynthesis , using energy from the sun .
The trophic level of an organism  is the स्थिति it occupies  in a food chain .
The word trophic derives  इससे the यूनानी τροφή ( trophē ) referring  to food or feeding .
A food chain represents a succession of organisms that eat  another सजीव और हैं , in फेरे , खाया themselves  .
The number of steps an organism is  इससे the प्रारंभ of the कड़ी is a माप of इसके  trophic level .
Food chains start at trophic level 1 with primary producers such as  पौधे , मूव to herbivores at स्तर 2 , परभक्षी at स्तर 3 और typically  finish with carnivores or apex predators at level 4 or 5 .
The path along the chain can form either a  one-way प्रवाह , or a  food `` web . ''
ecological समुदायों साथ उच्चतर  biodiversity form more complex trophic paths .
Four of the  सबसे महत्वपूर्ण domesticated  silk moths .
Top  to नीचे : bombyx mori , hyalophora cecropia  , Antheraea pernyi , Samia cynthia .
From Meyers  konversations-lexikon  ( 1885-1892 )
A  silk-producing  raspy cricket .
Silk is  a प्राकृतिक प्रोटीन fibre , कुछ फ़ॉर्म  of which can be woven into textiles .
The protein fibre  of रेशा is रचित मुख्यतः of fibroin  and produced by certain insect larvae to form cocoons .
The  best-known प्रकार of रेशा is प्राप्त  from the cocoons of the larvae of the mulberry silkworm Bombyx mori reared in captivity ( sericulture ) .
The shimmering appearance of silk is  due to the triangular प्रिज़्म -like ढांचा of the रेशा fibre , जिससे  allows silk cloth to refract incoming light at different angles , thus producing different colors .
Silks are produced by several other insects , but generally only the silk of moth  caterpillars रै महरूम प्रयुक्त लिये वस्त्र निर्माण  .
There  रै महरूम कुछ शोध into अन्य  silks , which differ at the molecular level .
Many silks are mainly produced by the larvae of insects undergoing complete metamorphosis  , लकिन कुछ वयस्क कीट ऐसे as webspinners उपज रेशा , और कुछ कीट ऐसे as raspy झींगुर  produce silk throughout their lives .
Silk  उत्पादन भी occurs in कलापक्ष ( मधुमक्खियों , wasps , और चींटियों )  , silverfish , mayflies , thrips , leafhoppers , beetles , lacewings , fleas , flies and midges .
Other types of arthropod  उपज रेशा , सबसे notably विभिन्न  arachnids such as spiders ( see spider silk ) .
लेट दिखाएँ साथ दाउद लेटरमैन is an अमरीकी  late-night talk show hosted by David Letterman on CBS .
The show debuted on August 30 , 1993 , and is produced by Letterman 's production  कम्पनी , विश्वव्यापी पैंट  Incorporated .
The show 's  म्यूज़िक निदेशक और band-leader of the हाउस  band , the CBS Orchestra , is Paul Shaffer .
The head writer is Matt Roberts and  the उद्घोषक  is Alan Kalter .
Of the major U.S.  late-night कार्यक्रम , लेट दिखाएँ बाँधने दूसरी  in cumulative average viewers over time and third in number of episodes over time .
The show  लीड अन्य लेट रात्रि shows  in ad revenue with $ 271 million in 2009 .
In most U.S. markets the show airs at 11:35 p.m.  eastern/pacific समय , लकिन is अंकित सोमवार through बुधवार at 4:30 p.m. , और गुरुवार  at 3:30 p.m and 6:00 p.m .
The  दूसरी गुरुवार एपीसोड प्रायः  airs on Friday of that week .
In 2002 , Late Show with David Letterman was  क्रमित no . 7 on tv मार्गदर्शिका 's 50 महानतम  TV Shows of All Time .
CBS has a contract with Worldwide Pants to  continue the दिखाएँ through 2014 ; by तब , लेटरमैन  will surpass Johnny Carson as the longest tenured late-night talk show host .
The  रियल housewives of नारंगी  County is an American reality documentary television program on Bravo , set in Orange County , California .
It was the first  the रियल housewives कार्यक्रम  in the series .
The series is a voyeuristic look into the wealthy lives  of ये housewives , as वे दूकान , मिलेंगी प्लास्टिक सर्जरी , गपशप , लड़ो  and live lavishly .
The financial crisis , the beginning of which coincided  लगभग exactly साथ the पहला ऋतु 's ब्रॉडकास्ट , रै चूंकि  trimmed the housewives ' lifestyles with job losses , evictions , mortgage defaults , foreclosures , and marital stress—all recorded in progressive seasons of the show .
Cyberstalking is the use of the Internet or  अन्य इलेक्ट्रॉनिक  means to stalk or harass an individual , a group of individuals , or an organization .
It may include the making of false accusations or statements of fact ( as in  मानहानि ) , निगरानी , बनाना खतरे , पहचान चोरी , क्षति to आंकड़ा or उपकरण ,  the solicitation of minors for sex , or gathering information that may be used to harass .
The  परिभाषा of `` उत्पीड़न '' जरूर मिलें the मानदंड कि  a reasonable person , in possession of the same information , would regard it as sufficient to cause another reasonable person distress .
cyberstalking is अलग इससे स्थानिक or ऑफ़लाइन stalking in कि it occurs  through the use of electronic communications technology such as the internet .
However , it sometimes  लीड to it , or is accompanied  by it .
Both are  दण्ड offenses  .
Cyberstalking shares  महत्वपूर्ण विशेषताएँ साथ  offline stalking .
Many stalkers – online or  बंद – हैं प्रेरित by a ख्वाहिश to  control their victims .
A cyberstalker may be an online  अजनबी or a व्यक्ति जिसको the निशाना  knows .
A cyberstalker may be anonymous and may solicit involvement of other  लोगों ऑनलाइन जो do नहीं भी जान the निशाना  .
cyberstalking is a दण्ड ठोकर कि आता into खेल अंतर्गत  state anti-stalking laws , slander laws , and harassment laws .
A cyberstalking conviction can result in a restraining order , probation , or even  दण्ड दंड विरूद्ध the assailant , सहित कारावास .
A business letter is usually used when writing from one company to another , or for correspondence between such organizations and their customers ,  क्लाइंट और अन्य बाह्य पार्टियों .
The overall style of letter will depend on  the संबंध between  the parties concerned .
There are many reasons to write a  कारोबार अक्षर .
It could be to request direct  सूचना or कार्रवाई इससे another पार्टी , to अनुक्रम आपूर्तियाँ इससे a प्रदायक , to पहचानो  a mistake that was committed , to reply directly to a request , to apologize for a wrong or simply to convey goodwill .
Even  आज , the कारोबार अक्षर is स्टिल बहुत उपयोगी  because it produces a permanent record , is confidential , formal and delivers persuasive , well-considered messages .
Tilapia ( ) is the  आम नाम लिये nearly a सौ प्रजाति of cichlid  fish from the tilapiine cichlid tribe .
Tilapia are mainly freshwater fish , inhabiting shallow streams , ponds , rivers  और झीलों , और कम commonly मिला  living in brackish water .
historically , वे have महरूम of प्रमुख महत्व in कारीगर फ़िशिंग  in Africa and the Levant , and are of increasing importance in aquaculture .
Tilapia can become problematic invasive species in new warm-water habitats , whether  deliberately or accidentally introduced , लकिन generally नहीं in शीतोष्ण climates due to उनके अक्षमता  to survive in cooler waters below about .
Turner & Hooch is a 1989 comedy drama crime film starring Tom Hanks and Beasley the Dog as the  eponymous वर्ण , टर्नर  and Hooch respectively .
The film also stars Mare Winningham ,  क्रेग T. नेल्सन , और रेगिनाल्ड  VelJohnson .
It was  निर्देशित by रोजर spottiswoode  ; the film was originally slated to be directed by Henry Winkler , but he was terminated due to `` creative differences '' .
It was co-written by Michael  blodgett इससे परे the घाटी  of the Dolls fame .
Although K-9 ( with James Belushi ) was released prior to this film ( exactly three months earlier ) , Turner & Hooch became more popular  और seemingly निष्प्रभ  its greater success , even though K-9 had a very similar plot .
A pilot for a Turner & Hooch TV series was made  और भागा as a भाग of the जादुई संसार of डिज़्नी .
This  is a सूची of israeli  airports , sorted by location .
प्रवेश  to Ovda Airport
Terminal 3  at बेन गुरियन
प्लेन लैंडिंग at  Be'er Sheva ( Teyman )
eilat  Airport
Adolf Hitler ( ; 20 April 1889 – 30 April 1945 ) was an Austrian -born German politician and the leader of  the नाजी पार्टी ( ( nsdap ) ; नेशनल समाजवादी जर्मनी  Workers Party ) .
He was chancellor of Germany from 1933 to 1945 and dictator of  नाजी जर्मनी ( as führer und reichskanzler ) इससे  1934 to 1945 .
Hitler was at the centre of  नाजी जर्मनी , संसार युद्ध ii  in Europe , and the Holocaust .
हिटलर थी a सजा  veteran of World War I .
He joined the German  मजदूर ' पार्टी ( precursor of the nsdap  ) in 1919 , and became leader of the NSDAP in 1921 .
In 1923 , he attempted a coup d'état in Munich  , ज्ञात as the बियर  Hall Putsch .
The failed coup resulted in Hitler 's imprisonment , during  जिससे समय he लिखा उसके संस्मरण , mein  Kampf ( My Struggle ) .
After his  रिलीज in 1924 , हिटलर gained लोकप्रिय support by  attacking the Treaty of Versailles and promoting Pan-Germanism , antisemitism , and anti-communism with charismatic oratory and Nazi propaganda .
After  उसके नियुक्ति as चांसलर in 1933 , he रूपांतरित the  Weimar Republic into the Third Reich , a single-party dictatorship based on the totalitarian and autocratic ideology of Nazism .
Hitler 's aim was to establish a New  अनुक्रम of निरपेक्ष नाजी जर्मनी आधिपत्य  in continental Europe .
To this end , his foreign and domestic policies had the aim of seizing Lebensraum ( `` living  स्पेस '' ) लिये the germanic  people .
He directed the rearmament of Germany and the invasion of Poland by the Wehrmacht  in सितंबर 1939 , resulting in the outbreak of संसार युद्ध ii in  Europe .
Under Hitler  's नियम , in 1941 जर्मनी शक्तियां और उनके यूरोपीय allies  occupied most of Europe and North Africa .
In 1943 ,  जर्मनी था महरूम मजबूर onto the  defensive and suffered a series of escalating defeats .
In the final days of the war , during the Battle of Berlin  in 1945 , हिटलर शादीशुदा उसके long-time  partner , Eva Braun .
On 30  अप्रैल 1945 , कम  than two days later , the two committed suicide to avoid capture by the Red Army , and their corpses were burned .
Hitler 's aggressive foreign policy is considered  the प्रमुख कारण of the outbreak  of World War II in Europe .
His antisemitic policies and racially motivated ideology  resulted in the मौतों of at तनिक 5.5 लाख यहूदियों , और लाखो  of other people deemed racially inferior .
अंगूठा
a डोमेन नाम is an पहचान स्ट्रिंग कि defines a फ्रेम  of administrative autonomy , authority , or control on the Internet .
Domain names  हैं formed by the नियम  and procedures of the Domain Name System ( DNS ) .
Technically , any name  पंजीकृत in the डीएनएस is a डोमेन  name .
Domain names are used in various networking contexts and  application-specific नामकरण और संबोधित उद्देश्य  .
In general , a domain name represents an Internet Protocol ( IP ) resource ,  ऐसे as a निजी कंप्यूटर प्रयुक्त to अभिगम the अंतरजाल , a सर्वर  computer hosting a web site , or the web site itself or any other service communicated via the Internet .
Domain names are organized in  अधीनस्थ स्तर ( subdomains ) of the  DNS root domain , which is nameless .
The first-level set of  डोमेन names हैं the top-level डोमेन ( tlds ) , सहित the जेनेरिक top-level डोमेन ( gtlds ) , ऐसे as the  prominent domains com , info , net and org , and the country code top-level domains ( ccTLDs ) .
Below these top-level domains in the DNS hierarchy are the second-level and  third-level डोमेन names कि हैं typically खोलें लिये रिज़र्वेशन by end-users जो काश  to connect local area networks to the Internet , create other publicly accessible Internet resources or run web sites .
The registration  of ये डोमेन names  is usually administered by domain name registrars who sell their services to the public .
A fully qualified domain name ( FQDN ) is a  डोमेन नाम कि is completely निर्दिष्ट in the पदानुक्रम  of the DNS , having no omitted parts .
Domain names are usually written in  लोअरकेस , हालांकि लेबल्स in the डोमेन  Name System are case-insensitive .
Nitrate  is a polyatomic आयन साथ the आणविक सूत्र no3− और a आणविक द्रव्यमान of  62.0049 g/mol . Nitrates also describe the organic functional group RONO2 .
These nitrate esters are a  specialized क्लास  of explosives .
A wheat  कटाई in  Idaho
This photo from a 1921 encyclopedia  shows a ट्रैक्टर ploughing a क्रॉप फ़ील्ड  .
Agriculture is a major industry in the United  राज्य और the देश  is a net exporter of food .
As of the last census of  कृषि in 2007 , वहीँ यहूद 2.2 लाख  farms , covering an area of , an average of per farm .
Although agricultural activity occurs in most states , it is  विशेषकर concentrated in the विशाल expanse of चपटा ,  arable land known as the Great Plains , which encompasses the central region of the nation .
The Mpemba effect , named after Tanzanian  छात्र erasto mpemba , is the assertion कि  warmer water can freeze faster than colder water .
Although there is  anecdotal support लिये the प्रभाव , वहीँ is no अनुबंध on exactly कया  the effect is and under what circumstances it occurs .
There  have महरूम रिपोर्ट्स of समान phenomena  since ancient times , although with insufficient detail for the claims to be replicated .
The phenomenon seems contrary to thermodynamics , but a number of possible  स्पष्टीकरण लिये the प्रभाव have महरूम प्रस्तावित  .
Further investigations will  need to decide on a precise  definition of `` freezing '' and control a vast number of starting parameters in order to confirm or explain the effect .
The Siamese ( , ) is one of the first  distinctly पहचाना breeds  of Oriental cat .
The breed originated in Thailand ( formerly known as Siam ) , where they are one of several  देशी breeds और हैं पुकारा wichian mat  ( วิเชียรมาศ , a name meaning `` moon diamond '' ) .
In the 20th century the Siamese cat became one of the most  लोकप्रिय breeds in यूरोपीय  and North America .
Quality Food Centers ( QFC )  is a सुपरमार्केट कड़ी आधारित in bellevue , वॉशिंगटन  , with 64 stores in the Puget Sound region of Washington state and in the Portland , Oregon metropolitan area .
In  अर्थशास्त्र , the धन  supply or money stock , is the total amount of monetary assets available in an economy at a specific time .
There are several ways to define `` money , '' but standard measures usually include currency in  परिसंचरण और माँग जमा ( जमाकर्ताओं ' easily  accessed assets on the books of financial institutions ) .
Money supply  आंकड़ा हैं अंकित और प्रकाशित , प्रायः by the  government or the central bank of the country .
Public and private sector analysts have long monitored  परिवर्तन in धन सप्लाई क्युकी of इसके प्रभाव on the दाम स्तर , महंगाई , the एक्सचेंज  rate and the business cycle .
That relation between money  और कीमतें is historically संबद्ध  with the quantity theory of money .
There is strong empirical evidence of a direct relation between money-supply growth and long-term price  महंगाई , at तनिक लिये रैपिड increases in the राशि of धन in the  economy .
That is , a country such as Zimbabwe which saw rapid  increases in इसके धन सप्लाई भी देखी रैपिड  increases in prices ( hyperinflation ) .
This is one reason for the reliance  on मौद्रिक नीति as a अर्थात्  of controlling inflation .
The  प्रकृति of इस  causal chain is the subject of contention .
Some heterodox economists argue that the money supply is endogenous ( determined by the workings of the economy , not by  the सेंट्रल बैंको ) और कि the स्त्रोत of महंगाई जरूर be मिला in the distributional  structure of the economy .
In addition , those economists seeing the central bank 's control over the money supply as feeble say  कि वहीँ हैं दो कमजोर कड़ी between the विकास of the  money supply and the inflation rate .
First , in the aftermath of a recession , when many resources are underutilized , an increase in the money supply can cause  a sustained बढ़ाएँ in रियल उत्पादन  instead of inflation .
Second , if the velocity of money , i.e. , the ratio between nominal GDP and money supply , changes , an  बढ़ाएँ in the धन सप्लाई could have either no प्रभाव , an अतिरंजित प्रभाव , or an  unpredictable effect on the growth of nominal GDP .
Logo  लिये imax  .
Warren  थिएटर imax सिनेमा  , Wichita , Kansas , USA , 601 seats .
A comparison  between 35 mm और  15/70 mm negative areas .
IMAX ( an abbreviation for Image Maximum ) is a motion picture film format and a set of cinema  प्रक्षेप मानकों निर्मित by the कनाडाई  company IMAX Corporation .
IMAX has the capacity to record and display images of far greater  आकार और रेज़ोल्यूशन than conventional फिल्मी प्रणालियों  .
Since 2002 , some feature films have been converted ( or  upgraded ) into imax स्वरूप लिये प्रदर्शक in imax थिएटर और  some have also been partially shot in IMAX .
IMAX is the most widely  प्रयुक्त प्रणाली लिये special-venue  film presentations .
, there are 697 IMAX  थिएटर in 52 देशों  .
Today 's Special is a Canadian children  's टेलीविज़न दिखाएँ उत्पादित by क्लाइव  VanderBurgh at TVOntario from 1981 to 1987 .
It also ran on Nickelodeon and the  आस्था और मान channel/odyssey ( अभी the hallmark चैनल ) as  well as many PBS stations throughout the United States .
It was set in a department store ,  आधारित on the फ्लैगशिप स्थान of the अभी defunct  Simpson 's in Toronto .
Many sequences for it were shot at the Queen Street West  और yonge गली  store after hours .
संविधानवाद , in इसके सबसे सामान्य अर्थ , is `` a जटिल of विचार , attitudes , और पैटर्न of  behavior elaborating the principle that the authority of government derives from and is limited by a body of fundamental law '' .
A political organization is constitutional to the extent that it `` contain [ s ] institutionalized mechanisms of power control for  the सुरक्षा of the रूचि और लिबर्टीज of the citizenry , सहित those  that may be in the minority `` .
As described by political  वैज्ञानिक और संवैधानिक विद्वान  David Fellman :
an ice-cream सिरदर्द , भी ज्ञात as दिमाग फ्रीज , cold-stimulus सिरदर्द , or इसके दिए वैज्ञानिक  name sphenopalatine ganglioneuralgia ( meaning `` nerve pain of the sphenopalatine ganglion `` ) , is a form of brief cranial pain or headache commonly associated with consumption ( particularly quick consumption ) of cold beverages or foods such as ice cream and ice pops .
It is caused by having something cold touch the roof of the mouth ( palate ) , and is believed to result from a nerve response causing rapid  constriction और सूजन of रक्त बरतन or a `` referring `` of पीड़ा इससे the छत of the मुँह to the सिर  .
The rate of intake for  ठंडा भोजन रै महरूम  studied as a contributing factor .
There are people who can not  अनुभव `` दिमाग फ्रीज  '' or similar symptoms .
The term ice-cream headache has been in use since at least 31 January 1937 , contained in a journal entry by Rebecca Timbres published in the 1939 book We did n't ask Utopia : a Quaker  परिवार in सोवियत रूस  .
The  पहला प्रकाशित उपयोग of the पद दिमाग फ्रीज  , as it pertains to cold-induced headaches , was on 27 May 1991 .
`` Auld Lang Syne '' ( : note `` s '' rather than `` z '' ) is a Scots poem written by Robert Burns in 1788  और नियत to the धुन of a परंपरागत  folk song ( Roud # 6294 ) .
It is well known in many countries , especially in the  english-speaking संसार ; इसके परंपरागत उपयोग होने to  celebrate the start of the New Year at the stroke of midnight .
By extension , it is also sung at funerals , graduations and as a farewell  or समाप्ति to अन्य अवसरों  .
The international Boy Scout youth movement ,  in अनेक देशों  , uses it as a close to jamborees and other functions .
The song 's Scots title may be translated into English  वस्तुतः as `` बूढ़ा long चूंकि '' , or अधिक  idiomatically , `` long long ago '' , `` days gone by '' or `` old times '' .
Consequently `` For auld lang  syne '' , as it appears in the पहला लकीर of the कोरस , might  be loosely translated as `` for ( the sake of ) old times '' .
The phrase `` Auld Lang Syne '' is also used in similar poems by Robert Ayton ( 1570–1638 ) , Allan  ramsay ( 1686–1757 ) , और जेम्स  Watson ( 1711 ) as well as older folk songs predating Burns .
मैथ्यू fitt उपयोग the phrase  `` In the days of auld lang syne '' as the equivalent of `` Once upon a time ...
`` in his  retelling of परी  tales in the Scots language .
Ben Schulz , player of  leeroy  Jenkins at BlizzCon 2007
Leeroy Jenkins , sometimes misspelled Leroy Jenkins and often elongated with numerous  अतिरिक्त अक्षर , is an अंतरजाल मीम नामित लिये  a player character created by Ben Schulz in Blizzard Entertainment 's MMORPG , World of Warcraft .
The character became popular due to a video of the game that  परिचालित around the अंतरजाल  .
The phenomenon has  चूंकि स्प्रेड परे the सीमाएँ of the  gaming community into other online and mainstream media .
Oscar Grant was fatally  शॉट by बार्ट पुलिस अधिकारी योहानेस mehserle in ओकलैंड , कैलिफ़ोर्निया  , United States , in the early morning hours of New Year 's Day 2009 .
Responding to reports of a fight on a crowded Bay Area Rapid Transit train returning from San  फ्रांसिस्को , बार्ट पुलिस अधिकारियों detained ऑस्कर ग्रान्ट और अनेक अन्य यात्री on  the platform at the Fruitvale BART Station .
Officer Johannes Mehserle  और another अधिकारी यहूद restraining  Grant , who was prostrate and allegedly resisting arrest .
Officer Mehserle  stood और , according to गवाह , कहा : `` मिलेंगी वापस ,  I 'm gon na tase him . ''
Then  mehserle खींचा उसके गन और शॉट ग्रान्ट एकबार in the वापस ; mehserle appeared  stunned , put his hands to his head and exclaimed , `` Oh , my God ! ''
During his court testimony ,  mehserle कहा कि ग्रान्ट  then exclaimed , `` You shot me ! ''
Grant turned out to be unarmed ; he was  सुनाया मुर्दे the अगला morning  at Highland Hospital in Oakland .
The events were captured on  अनेक डिजिटल वीडियो  and cell phone cameras .
The footage was disseminated to media outlets and to various  वेबसाइटों , जहाँ it थी देखी लाखो of टाइम्स  .
the following दिनों  saw both peaceful and violent protests .
The shooting has been variously labeled an involuntary manslaughter and a  सारांश निष्पादन .
On  जनवरी 13 , alameda काउंटी prosecutors  charged Mehserle with murder for the shooting .
he resigned उसके स्थिति  and pleaded not guilty .
the विचारण began  on June 10 , 2010 .
Michael Rains , Mehserle 's criminal defense attorney , argued that Mehserle  mistakenly शॉट ग्रान्ट साथ उसके पिस्टल , intending to उपयोग  his Taser when he saw Grant reaching for his waistband .
Pretrial filings argue that his client did not commit first-degree murder and asked a Los  एंजिल्स न्यायधीश to instruct the जूरी to सीमा इसके deliberations to either  second-degree murder or acquittal .
ओकलैंड सिविल अधिकारों attorney जॉन burris दायर  a $ 25 million wrongful death claim against BART on behalf of Grant 's family .
On July 8 , 2010 , the  जूरी लौटे इसके verdict : mehserle थी मिला अपराधी  of involuntary manslaughter and not guilty of second-degree murder and voluntary manslaughter .
Initial protests against the ruling were peacefully organized ; looting , arson , destruction of  प्रॉपर्टी , और छोटी दंगे broke आउट बाद अंधेरा  .
Nearly  80 लोगों यहूद आखिरकार  arrested .
On Friday , July 9 , 2010 , the U.S. Justice Department opened a civil rights case against Mehserle ; the federal  सरकारी can prosecute उसे independently लिये the वही अधिनियम अंतर्गत the पृथक अधिपति  exception to double jeopardy .
The  विभाग of इंसाफ होगा be working  with the U.S. Attorney 's office in San Francisco and the FBI .
On November 5 , 2010 , Mehserle  थी sentenced to दो सालो , ऋण  time served .
He served his time in the Los Angeles County Jail ,  occupying a निजी कोशिका दूर इससे अन्य बंदियों  .
He was released on June 13  , 2011 और is  now on parole .
Major  प्रतिनिधि of the  Harlem Renaissance .
The Harlem Renaissance was a  सांस्कृतिक गति कि spanned the  1920s .
At the time , it was  ज्ञात as the `` नई नीग्रो गति  '' , named after the 1925 anthology by Alain Locke .
Though it was centered in the Harlem  पड़ोस of नई यॉर्क नगर , अनेक french-speaking  black writers from African and Caribbean colonies who lived in Paris were also influenced by the Harlem Renaissance .
The Harlem  पुनर्जागरण is unofficially  recognized to have spanned from about 1919 until the early or mid-1930s .
Many of its ideas lived  on much longer  .
The zenith of this `` flowering of Negro literature '' , as James Weldon Johnson preferred to call the Harlem Renaissance , was placed between 1924 ( the year that Opportunity : A  जर्नल of नीग्रो जीवन hosted a पार्टी लिये ब्लैक लेखक जहाँ अनेक श्वेत प्रकाशक यहूद in उपस्थिति ) और 1929 ( the साल of the भण्डार  market crash and the beginning of the Great Depression ) .
African States  between 500 bce और 1500  CE
obelisk at  temple of Luxor , Egypt .
c. 1200  bce  .
African knight of  baguirmi in पूरा padded  armour suit .
The history of Africa begins with  the प्रागितिहास of अफ़्रीकी और the emergence of होमो sapiens in ईस्ट अफ़्रीकी , continuing  into the present as a patchwork of diverse and politically developing nation states .
Some early  प्रमाण of कृषि in अफ़्रीकी तिथियाँ  from 16,000 BCE , and metallurgy from about 4000 BCE .
The  अंकित इतिहास of जल्दी सभ्यता arose in  Egypt , and later in Nubia , the Maghreb and the Horn of Africa .
During the Middle  आयु , islam स्प्रेड through  the regions .
Crossing the Maghreb and the  सहेल , a प्रमुख बीच of मुस्लिम  culture was Timbuktu .
Some notable pre-colonial states and societies in Africa include the Nok culture , Mali Empire , Ashanti Empire , Kingdom of  mapungubwe , किंगडम of ज्या , किंगडम of saloum , किंगडम of baol , किंगडम of ज़िम्बाब्वे , किंगडम  of Kongo , Ancient Carthage , Numidia , Mauretania , the Aksumite Empire , the Ajuuraan State and the Adal Sultanate .
From the  लेट 15th सदी , europeans  and Arabs took slaves from West , Central and Southeast Africa overseas in the African slave trade .
European colonization of Africa developed rapidly in the  हाथापाई लिये अफ़्रीकी of the लेट  19th and early 20th centuries .
Following struggles for independence in many parts of the continent , as well as a weakened Europe after the Second World  युद्ध ; decolonization took प्लेस  .
Africa 's history has been challenging for researchers in the field of African studies  क्युकी of the किल्लत of लिखा  sources in large parts of sub-Saharan Africa .
Scholarly techniques such as  the रिकॉर्डिंग of मौखिक इतिहास , ऐतिहासिक  linguistics , archaeology and genetics have been crucial .
Curry Foley was the  पहला खिलाड़ी in प्रमुख लीग बेसबॉल  history to hit for the cycle .
In baseball , hitting for the cycle is the accomplishment of one  बैटर hitting a सिंगल , a दोगुना , a ट्रिपल , और a घर चलाएं  in the same game .
Collecting  the हिट्स in कि अनुक्रम is ज्ञात as  a `` natural cycle '' .
Cycles are uncommon in Major League Baseball ( MLB ) ,  और have occurred 294 टाइम्स चूंकि  the first by Curry Foley in 1882 .
The cycle is roughly as common as a no-hitter ( 279 occurrences in MLB history ) ; it has been called `` one of the rarest '' and `` most  मुश्किल feats '' in बेसबॉल  .
Based on 2009 offensive levels , the probability  of an औसत एमएलबी खिलाड़ी hitting लिये a साईकिल विरूद्ध an औसत टोली in a खेल is  approximately 0.00590 % ; this corresponds to about 2.5 cycles in a 162-game season with 30 teams .
In other  बेसबॉल लीग , the  cycle is achieved less frequently .
Through September  4 , 2008 , 62 खिलाड़ी in निप्पन पेशेवर  Baseball ( NPB ) , the top-level baseball organization in Japan , have hit for the cycle , the most recent being Michihiro Ogasawara .
Two  खिलाड़ी have hit लिये the साईकिल on the वही  day once in NPB history ; this has occurred twice in MLB history .
One NPB player has also hit for the cycle  in an npb all-star खेल  .
No player has ever hit for the  साईकिल in the एमएलबी all-star खेल  or the postseason .
The main slave routes  in मध्यकालीन अफ़्रीकी .
This article  discusses प्रणालियों , इतिहास  , and effects of slavery within Africa .
See Arab slave trade , Atlantic slave trade , Maafa , and Slavery in contemporary Africa  लिये अन्य चर्चाएँ  .
`` Slave  हस्तांतरण in अफ़्रीकी  '' .
Europeans  प्रायः किया नहीं डालें  the interior regions .
Slavery in Africa has existed throughout the  महाद्वीप लिये अनेक सदियां , और continues in the वर्तमान  day .
Systems of servitude and slavery were common in many parts of the continent , as they were in much of  the प्राचीन संसार .
In most African societies where  गुलामी थी प्रचलित , the enslaved लोगों यहूद largely treated as indentured बन्दों  and not treated as chattel slaves .
When the Arab slave trade and Atlantic slave trade began , many of the  लोकल स्लेव प्रणालियों बदला और began supplying captives लिये स्लेव  markets outside of Africa .
Slavery in historical Africa was practiced in many different forms and some of these do not clearly fit the definitions of  गुलामी elsewhere in  the world .
Debt slavery ,  enslavement of युद्ध captives  , military slavery , and criminal slavery were all practiced in various parts of Africa .
Although there had been some trans-Saharan trade from the interior of Sub-Saharan Africa to other regions , slavery was a small part of the economic  जीवन of अनेक समाजों in अफ़्रीकी जबतक the परिचय of transcontinental स्लेव  trades ( Arab and Atlantic ) .
Slave practices were again transformed with European colonization of Africa and the  औपचारिक abolition of गुलामी in the  early 1900s .
Windows Task Manager is a task manager or System monitor  अनुप्रयोग शामिल साथ the microsoft खिड़कियाँ nt परिवार of ऑपरेटिंग प्रणालियों कि provides सीमित सूचना परिचय कंप्यूटर प्रदर्शन और कार्यशील अनुप्रयोग , प्रक्रियाओं और cpu उपयोग , कमिट चार्ज और मेमोरी सूचना , संजाल कार्यकलाप और आंकडे , logged-in उपयोक्ता , और प्रणाली सेवाएं ( और as प्रायः is the मामला साथ  software tools provided by Microsoft for Windows , 3rd party software is available which fills the requirements more thoroughly , e.g , `` Process Explorer '' , `` Extended Task Manager '' , `` Anvir Task Manager '' , `` Process Hacker '' , and `` System Explorer '' ) .
The Task Manager can also be used to set process priorities , processor affinity , forcibly terminate processes , and  shut bas , restart , hibernate or log बंद इससे खिड़कियाँ  .
Windows Task Manager  थी introduced साथ खिड़कियाँ  NT 4.0 .
Previous  संस्करण of खिड़कियाँ nt शामिल the  Task List application , which had far fewer features .
The task list was capable of listing currently running processes and  हत्या उन्हें , or बनाना a नई प्रक्रम  .
In Windows XP only , a Shutdown menu is also present that allows  अभिगम to standby , hibernate , फेरे बंद , restart , log बंद और  Switch User .
पहले संस्करण of microsoft खिड़कियाँ ( microsoft  Windows 3.x , Windows 95 , Windows 98 ) had a program known as tasks to display the programs currently running .
This file was executed by running the  taskman.exe संचिका इससे  the C : \Windows directory .
The Troop is  an american-canadian live-action , सिंगल कैमरा कॉमेडी -adventure टेलीविज़न श्रेणी  about a trio of teenagers who fight and capture monsters and other supernatural phenomena that invade the fictional town of Lakewood .
Created and executive produced by  अधिकतम burnett , ग्रेग कूलिज और क्रिस  Morgan , the series premiered on Nickelodeon on September 18 , 2009 .
The second season premiered on June 25 ,  2011 और निकलोडियन रद्द the श्रेणी मिडवे  through it 's second season .
The remaining  एपीसोड of ऋतु 2 यहूद aired  on Nicktoons except the last 3..
Sparsely populated in relation to its area , the Democratic Republic of the Congo ( DRC ) is home to a vast potential of natural resources and mineral wealth , its untapped  जमा of कच्चा खनिज हैं अनुमानित to be लायक in excess of us $ 24 खरब , yet the अर्थव्यवस्था  of the DRC has declined drastically since the mid-1980s .
At the time of  इसके स्वतंत्रता in 1960 , drc थी the दूसरी  most industrialized country in Africa after South Africa ; it boasted a thriving mining sector and its agriculture sector was relatively productive .
If the viewer  stares at इस चित्र लिये 20–60 सेकेंड और stares at a श्वेत  object , a negative afterimage will appear ( in this case , it will be cyan on magenta ) .
This can also be  हासिल by the दर्शक closing  his/her eyes and tilting their head up .
an afterimage or भुत चित्र or चित्र burn-in is an ऑप्टिकल भ्रम  that refers to an image continuing to appear in one 's vision after the exposure to the original image has ceased .
One of the most common  afterimages is the उज्जवल glow कि seems  to float before one 's eyes after looking into a light source for a few seconds .
Closing the eye can help achieve a  बेहतर भाव of the रंग in इसके  own aspect .
Afterimages  आइये in दो फ़ॉर्म , ऋणात्मक ( उलट  ) and positive ( retaining original color ) .
The process behind positive afterimages is unknown ,  हालांकि विचार to be सम्बन्धित  to neural adaptation .
On the other hand  , ऋणात्मक afterimages हैं a retinal घटना  and are well understood .
Lost is an American serial drama  टेलीविज़न श्रेणी कि premiered on  September 22 , 2004 on the American Broadcasting Company ( ABC ) .
The series was created  by J. J. abrams और डैमन lindelof ,  based upon an original pilot script titled Nowhere written by Jeffrey Lieber .
Six seasons of the show aired , in addition to numerous  काटें shows to पूर्वावलोकन पिछला एपीसोड  .
ABC announced that Lost would end after six seasons ,  having उत्पादित a कुल of 121 एपीसोड  .
The series  फ़ॉलो the पास्ट , उपस्थित , और भविष्य अनुभव ( s ) of the survivors of a प्लेन क्रैश on  a passenger jet , Oceanic Flight 815 , flying from Sydney to Los Angeles after it crashes on a tropical island in the South Pacific .
The series also includes stories of the lives of  लोगों already जीना on the द्वीप — वे शामिल  the `` Others `` , who initially antagonize the survivors , as well as a group of people who arrive on the freighter Kahana .
Each episode typically features action on the island as well  as a द्वितीयक कथानक इससे another पाइंट  in a character 's life .
Season 6 features a detailing of the  जीवनदान of the survivors in a अलग वास्तविकता  , as if the flight had never crashed .
In the following list , the term `` featured character ( s ) '' refers to the character or characters  जो हैं प्रदर्शित in the द्वितीयक कथानक of प्रत्येक एपीसोड  .
``  no  .
in series '' refers to the episode 's number in  the overall श्रेणी , whereas ``  No .
in season ''  refers to the एपीसोड  's number in each particular season .
`` U.S. viewers  ( लाख ) '' refers to the क्रमांक  of Americans in millions who watched the episode live .
A total of 121  एपीसोड of खोया यहूद उत्पादित  , the last of which aired on May 23 , 2010 .
All seasons are available on DVD in Regions 1–4 and  on blu-ray in regions a और  B .
Flat feet ( also called pes planus or fallen arches ) is a formal reference to a medical condition in which the arch of the foot  collapses , साथ the संपूर्ण एकमात्र of the पैर coming into पूरा or near-complete सम्पर्क साथ  the ground .
In some  individuals ( an अनुमानित  20–30 % of the general population ) the arch simply never develops in one foot ( unilaterally ) or both feet ( bilaterally ) .
तीन अध्ययन ( देखिए citations नीचे in सैन्य खण्ड  ) of military recruits have shown no evidence of later increased injury , or foot problems , due to flat feet , in a population of people who reach military service age without prior foot problems .
However , these studies can not be used to judge possible future  क्षति इससे इस कंडीशन जब diagnosed  at younger ages .
They also can not be applied to persons whose flat feet are associated  साथ पैर लक्षण , or निश्चित लक्षण in अन्य भाग of the देह ( ऐसे as  the leg or back ) possibly referable to the foot .
Generation X , commonly abbreviated to Gen X , is the  पीढी born बाद the  Western post-World War II baby boom .
demographers , इतिहासकारों और टीकाकारों उपयोग  beginning birth dates from the early 1960s to the early 1980s .
The term was  popularized by डगलस coupland 's  1991 novel Generation X : Tales for an Accelerated Culture .
Before that , it  था महरूम प्रयुक्त लिये विभिन्न subcultures  or countercultures after the 1950s .
दबाव छाले , भी ज्ञात as decubitus छाले or bedsores , हैं स्थानीयकृत चोटों to the स्किन and/or underlying  tissue usually over a bony prominence , as a result of pressure , or pressure in combination with shear and/or friction .
Most commonly this will be the sacrum , coccyx , heels or the hips , but other sites such as  the elbows , अदब , ankles or the वापस of the cranium  can be affected .
The cause of pressure  छाले is दबाव लागू  to soft tissue so that blood flow to the soft tissue is completely or partially obstructed .
shear is भी a कारण  ; shear pulls on blood vessels that feed the skin .
Pressure  छाले सबसे commonly develop in व्यक्तियों  who are not moving about or are confined to wheelchairs .
It is widely believed that other factors can influence the tolerance of skin for pressure  और shear thereby increasing the रिस्क of दबाव  ulcer development .
These factors are protein-calorie malnutrition , microclimate ( skin wetness caused by sweating or incontinence ) , diseases that reduce blood flow to the skin , such  as arteriosclerosis or रोगों कि reduce the अहसास in the स्किन , ऐसे as paralysis  or neuropathy .
The healing of pressure  छाले may be slowed by the आयु of the व्यक्ति , चिकित्सा शर्तें (  such as arteriosclerosis , diabetes or infection ) , smoking or medications such as antiinflammatory drugs .
Although often prevented and treatable if found early , pressure ulcers can be very  मुश्किल to prevent in critically बीमार मरीजों , frail बड़ो , व्हीलचेयर उपयोक्ता ( विशेषकर जहाँ स्पाइनल  injury is involved ) and terminally ill patients .
Primary prevention is to  redistribute दबाव by turning the रोगी  regularly .
the लाभ of turning to avoid further sores  is well documented since at least the 19th century .
In addition to turning and re-positioning the patient in bed or wheelchair , eating a balanced diet with adequate protein  और keeping the स्किन फ़्री इससे एक्सपोज़र to मूत्र  and stool is very important .
The prevalence of  दबाव छाले in हॉस्पिटल जमावट is ऊँची  , but improvements are being made .
According to the 2010 IPUP ( International Pressure Ulcer Prevalence Survey ) conducted in Canada , there was a significant decrease  in the overall facility-acquired व्यापकता of दबाव छाले  from 2009-2010 .
Ulcers were most commonly identified at the sacral/coccyx ulcer location ; however  , एड़ी छाले यहूद the सबसे आम facility-acquired स्थान  in the survey .
overboard is a 1987 अमरीकी  romantic comedy film starring Goldie Hawn and Kurt Russell .
It was directed by Garry Marshall ,  उत्पादित by roddy mcdowell , और loosely प्रेरित  by the 1974 Italian film Swept Away .
In turn , Overboard was adapted into the 2006  दक्षिण कोरियाई टेलीविज़न  series , Couple or Trouble .
Green Bay is a city in and the county seat of Brown County in the U.S.  राज्य of विस्कॉन्सिन , स्तिथ at the सिर of ग्रीन  Bay , a sub-basin of Lake Michigan , at the mouth of the Fox River .
It has an elevation of above  समुद्र स्तर और  is located north of Milwaukee .
the जनसांख्यिकी  was 104,057 at the 2010 census .
It is the third-largest city in the state of  विस्कॉन्सिन , बाद मिल्वौकी और  Madison .
It is also the third-largest  नगर on the वेस्ट shore  of Lake Michigan , after Chicago and Milwaukee .
Green Bay is home to the Green Bay Packers of the National Football League , making it by far the  smallest महानगर क्षेत्रफल in  the USA to host a major professional sports franchise .
Green Bay is the principal city of the Green Bay  महानगर सांख्यिकीय क्षेत्रफल , जिससे कवर भूरा , kewaunee , और oconto  Counties and had a combined population of 282,599 at the 2000 census .
Green Bay is an industrial city with several meatpacking and  पेपर पौधे , और a बंदरगाहों on ग्रीन खाड़ी , an भुजा of झील मिशिगन  that locals call the Bay of Green Bay , to avoid conflating it with the eponymous city .
It is home to the National Railroad Museum ; the Neville Public Museum , with exhibitions of art , history , and  विज्ञान ; और the विश्वविद्यालयों of wisconsin–green खाड़ी  .
Luteinizing hormone ( LH , also known as lutropin and sometimes lutrophin ) is a hormone  उत्पादित by gonadotroph कोशिकाएं in the अग्रवर्ती pituitary  gland .
In females  , an अधि वृद्धि of lh  ( `` LH surge '' ) triggers ovulation and development of the corpus luteum .
In males , where LH had  भी महरूम पुकारा अंतरालीय  cell-stimulating hormone ( ICSH ) , it stimulates Leydig cell production of testosterone .
It acts  synergistically साथ  FSH .
सेलिना quintanilla-pérez ( अप्रैल 16  , 1971 – March 31 , 1995 ) , known simply as Selena , was an American singer-songwriter .
She was named the `` top Latin artist of the '90s '' and `` Best  selling लैटिन कलाकार of the दशक '' by बिलबोर्ड लिये उसके चौदह top-ten  singles in the Top Latin Songs chart , including seven number-one hits .
Selena  था the सबसे कामयाब singles of 1994  and 1995 , `` Amor Prohibido `` and `` No Me Queda Más `` .
She was called `` The Queen  of tejano म्यूज़िक ``  and the Mexican equivalent of Madonna .
Selena released her  पहला एल्बम , सेलिना y लॉस  Dinos , at the age of twelve .
She won Female Vocalist of the Year at the 1987 Tejano  म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार और उतरा a रिकॉर्डिंग अनुबंध साथ emi  a few years later .
Her fame grew throughout the early 1990s , especially in Spanish-speaking countries , and she  था begun रिकॉर्डिंग  in English as well .
Selena was murdered at the age of 23 on March 31 , 1995 by Yolanda Saldívar , the  पूर्व अध्यक्ष of उसके प्रशंसक क्लबों .
On April 12 , 1995 , two  सप्ताह बाद उसके मौत , जार्ज W. बुश , राज्यपाल  of Texas at the time , declared her birthday `` Selena Day '' in Texas .
Warner Bros. produced Selena ,  a फिल्मी आधारित on उसके जीवन अभिनीत जेनिफर लोपेज़ , in 1997 .
Selena 's life was  भी the आधार of the musical  Selena Forever starring Veronica Vazquez as Selena .
In June  2006 सेलिना थी commemorated साथ a life-sized कांस्य  statue ( Mirador de la Flor in Corpus Christi , Texas ) and a Selena museum opened there .
She has sold over  60 लाख एल्बम विश्वव्यापी , बनाना उसके एक of  the best-selling artists of all time .
She is also  the तभी मादा कलाकार to have पाँच  albums in U.S . Billboard 200 at the same time .
German  stahlhelm इससे संसार  War II
Insignia of the Bolivian Army Colorados regiment  , प्रर्दशित a stahlhelm और दो  crossed bayonets
Stahlhelm ( plural ,  stahlhelme ) is जर्मनी लिये  `` steel helmet '' .
The Imperial German Army began to replace  the परंपरागत boiled-leather pickelhaube ( spiked  combat helmet ) with the Stahlhelm during World War I in 1916 .
The term Stahlhelm refers both to a generic steel  हेल्मेट , और अधिक specifically to the distinctive  ( and iconic ) German design .
The Stahlhelm , with its distinctive `` coal scuttle `` shape , was an instantly recognizable icon  लिये सैन्य imagery और became a आम तत्व of सैन्य प्रचार on दोनो पहलू  , just like the Pickelhaube before it .
Its name was  भी प्रयुक्त by the stahlhelm , a अर्धसैनिक  nationalist organization established at the end of 1918 .
Glow-in-the-dark  may refer  to:
Bioluminescence , the production and  उत्सर्जन of लाइट by a जीना सजीव
Chemiluminescence  , is the उत्सर्जन of लाइट  ( luminescence ) without emission of heat
Phosphorescence , a specific type of photoluminescence  सम्बन्धित to प्रतिदीप्ति
radioluminescence , उत्पादन of संदीप्ति in  a material by the bombardment of ionizing radiation
Glow in the Dark Tour  , a 2008 कॉन्सर्ट दौरे by  Kanye West
Frankfurt Airport serves as a hub city for Lufthansa and  receives फ़्लाइट इससे स्टार गठबंधन वाहक  .
Airline hubs are airports ranked as large , medium , small , and non-hubs as one of the FAA airport  श्रेणी जिससे हैं re-evaluated प्रत्येक साल आधारित on क्रमांक of वाणिज्यिक यात्री  .
The more common but informal use for the phrase airline hub is an airport that an airline uses  as a ट्रांसफ़र पाइंट to मिलेंगी यात्री to उनके intended गंतव्य  .
it is भाग of a हब और spoke मॉडल , जहाँ travelers चलती between एयरपोर्ट नहीं  served by direct flights change planes en route to their destinations .
इस is as opposed to  the Point to Point model .
Many hubs of the  एयरलाइंस हैं भी situated  at airports in the cities of the respective head offices .
Some airlines may use only a  सिंगल हब , जबकि  other airlines use multiple hubs .
hubs हैं प्रयुक्त लिये दोनो यात्री  flights as well as cargo flights .
Many airlines also use focus cities , which  फलन much the वही as  hubs .
Airlines may also use secondary hubs , a non-technical  पद  for large focus cities .
A hub in the middle of a route is more effective  than at either समाप्त as connecting ट्रैफ़िक अधिक easily भरता the प्लेन - यात्री prefer a one-stop (  two-leg ) route over a two-stop ( three-leg ) route .
Hollow  lacedaemon  .
Site of the  menelaion , the shrine to हेलेन और menelaus constructed  anciently in the Bronze Age city that stood on the hill of Therapne on the left bank of the Eurotas River overlooking the future site of Dorian Sparta .
आरपार the घाटी  the successive ridges of Mount Taygetus are in evidence .
Sparta ( Doric Greek : ; Attic Greek : ) , or Lacedaemon , was a prominent city-state in ancient Greece ,  situated on the बैंको of the eurotas नदी in laconia , in  south-eastern Peloponnese .
It emerged as a political entity around the 10th century BC , when the invading Dorians  subjugated the लोकल , non-dorian जनसांख्यिकी  .
around 650 bc , it  rose to become the dominant military land-power in ancient Greece .
Given its military  pre-eminence , स्पार्टा थी पहचाना as the overall नेता of the संयुक्त  Greek forces during the Greco-Persian Wars .
Between 431 and 404 BC  , स्पार्टा थी the प्रिंसिपल दुश्मन of एथेंस दौरान the peloponnesian  War , from which it emerged victorious , though at great cost .
स्पार्टा 's शिकस्त by thebes in the बैटल  of Leuctra in 371 BC ended Sparta 's prominent role in Greece .
However , it  कायम इसके राजनैतिक स्वतंत्रता जबतक the  Roman conquest of Greece in 146 BC .
It then underwent a long period of decline , especially in the Middle Ages ,  जब अनेक spartans स्थानांतरित to  live in Mystras .
Modern Sparta is the capital of the Greek regional unit of  laconia और a बीच लिये the प्रसंस्करण of goods  such as citrus and olives .
Sparta was unique in ancient Greece for its social system  और संविधान , जिससे completely केन्द्रित on सैन्य प्रशिक्षण  and excellence .
Its inhabitants were classified as Spartiates ( Spartan citizens , who enjoyed full rights ) , Mothakes ( non-Spartan free men raised as Spartans ) , Perioikoi (  freedmen ) , और helots ( state-owned serfs , enslaved non-spartan लोकल  population ) .
Spartiates underwent the rigorous agoge training  और शिक्षा regimen , और spartan phalanges  were widely considered to be among the best in battle .
spartan महिलाओं enjoyed considerably अधिक  rights and equality to men than elsewhere in the classical world .
Sparta was the subject of  fascination in इसके अपना दिन , as खूब as in the वेस्ट following  the revival of classical learning .
This  प्रेम or admiration  of Sparta is known as Laconism or Laconophilia .
Fantasy football is an interactive competition in  जिससे उपयोक्ता compete विरूद्ध प्रत्येक  other as general managers of virtual teams .
The players that an individual is able to manage are  पेशेवर अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल खिलाड़ी in the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग  .
The different actions people are able to make are drafting ,  व्यापार , adding or छोड़ने खिलाड़ी , और बदलना  rosters .
Due to the growth of the Internet , Fantasy football has vastly increased in popularity , particularly  क्युकी काल्पनिक फ़ुटबॉल प्रदाताओं ऐसे as ईएसपीएन , याहू , सीबीएस , और the एनएफएल itself हैं समर्थ to रखना track of आंकडे entirely ऑनलाइन , eliminating  the need to check box scores and newspapers regularly to keep track of players .
Most  लीग have a सिंगल सप्ताह चैंपियनशिप  in Week 16 of the NFL season .
World population estimates from 1800 to 2100 , based  on un 2010 projections ( रेड , नारंगी , ग्रीन  ) and US Census Bureau historical estimates ( black ) .
Actual recorded population  आंकड़े हैं in ब्लू  .
According to the highest estimate , the world population may rise to 16  अरब by 2100 ; according to the  lowest estimate , it may decline to 6 billion .
The world population is  the कुल क्रमांक of जीना इंसानो  on Earth .
As of today , it is estimated to number billion by  the संयुक्त राज्य  Census Bureau ( USCB ) .
The USCB  estimates कि the संसार जनसांख्यिकी exceeded  7 billion on March 12 , 2012 .
According to a separate estimate by the United  राष्ट्र जनसांख्यिकी निधि , it पहुँचे  this milestone on October 31 , 2011 .
The world  जनसांख्यिकी रै अनुभवी निरन्तर  growth since the end of the Great Famine and the Black Death in 1350 , when it stood at around 370 million .
The highest rates of growth – global population increases  ऊपर 1.8 % प्रति साल – यहूद देखी briefly दौरान the 1950s , और लिये  a longer period during the 1960s and 1970s .
The growth rate peaked at 2.2  % in 1963 , और था अस्वीकृत  to 1.1 % by 2011 .
Total annual births were highest  in the लेट 1980s at परिचय 138 लाख , और हैं अभी अपेक्षित to remain essentially  constant at their 2011 level of 134 million , while deaths number 56 million per year , and are expected to increase to 80 million per year by 2040 .
Current projections show a continued increase in population in the near  भविष्य ( लकिन a स्थिर मनाही in the जनसांख्यिकी विकास रेट ) , साथ the वैश्विक जनसांख्यिकी अपेक्षित  to reach between 7.5 and 10.5 billion by 2050 .
Various longer-term estimates predict further growth , stagnation  , or भी overall मनाही in the वैश्विक  population by 2150 .
Some analysts have questioned the sustainability of further  संसार जनसांख्यिकी विकास , citing the growing pressures on the पर्यावरण  , global food supplies , and energy resources .
skeletal मांसपेशियां  homo sapiens
This  is a तालिका of मांसपेशियां of  the human anatomy .
There are approximately 642 skeletal muscles within the typical human , and almost every muscle constitutes one part of a pair of  एकसमान द्विपक्षीय मांसपेशियां , मिला on दोनो पहलू , resulting in लगभग 320  pairs of muscles , as presented in this article .
Nevertheless , the exact number is difficult to define because  अलग स्त्रोत समूह मांसपेशियां differently , e.g . regarding कया is पारिभाषित as  different parts of a single muscle or as several muscles .
उदाहरण दायरा  from 640 to 850 .
The muscles of the human body can be categorized into a number of groups  जिससे शामिल मांसपेशियां relating to the सिर और गर्दन , मांसपेशियां of the धड़ or  trunk , muscles of the upper limbs , and muscles of the lower limbs .
the कार्रवाई refers to the कार्रवाई  of each muscle from the standard anatomical position .
In other positions ,  अन्य क्रियाएँ may be performed  .
A gold bar is a quantity of refined metallic gold of any shape that is made by a bar producer meeting  मानक शर्तें of manufacture , labeling , और रिकार्ड  keeping .
Larger gold bars that are produced by  pouring the molten मेटल into molds हैं पुकारा  ingots .
Smaller bars may be  manufactured by minting or stamping इससे appropriately  rolled gold sheets .
The standard gold bar held as gold reserves by central banks and traded among bullion dealers is the 400-troy-ounce  ( 12.4 kg or 438.9 औंस  ) Good Delivery gold bar .
The kilobar  , जिससे is to कह 1000 गामा in द्रव्यमान  , is the bar that is more manageable and is used extensively for trading and investment .
The premium on these bars when traded is very low over the spot  मान of the  gold making it ideal for small transfers between banks and traders .
Most kilobars are flat ,  हालांकि कुछ निवेशकों , विशेषकर  in Europe , prefer the brick shape .
Elisha Archibald `` Archie '' Manning III ( born May 19 , 1949 ) is a  पूर्व अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल क्वार्टरबैक in the नेशनल  Football League , playing for the New Orleans Saints from 1971 to 1982 , then for the Houston Oilers and Minnesota Vikings .
He is the father of current Denver Broncos quarterback Peyton Manning , current New York Giants starting quarterback Eli  मैनिंग , और पूर्व ओले मिस receiver कूपर मैनिंग  .
Advocacy is a political process by an individual or group  जिससे aims to influence public-policy और संसाधन आवंटन  decisions within political , economic , and social systems and institutions .
Advocacy can include many activities that a person or  संगठन undertakes सहित मीडिया अभियान , पब्लिक  speaking , commissioning and publishing research or polls or the filing of an amicus brief .
Lobbying ( often by lobby groups ) is a form of  वकालत जहाँ a सीधा दृष्टिकोण  is made to legislators on an issue which plays a significant role in modern politics .
Research is beginning to explore how advocacy groups in the U.S. and Canada are  using सोशल मीडिया to सुकर नागरिक  engagement and collective action .
The flag of Mexico ( Spanish : Bandera de México ) is a vertical tricolor of green , white , and red with the national coat of arms  चार्ज in the बीच of the  white stripe .
While the meaning of the colors has changed over time ,  ये तीन रंगों यहूद अपनाया by मैक्सिको following स्वतंत्रता इससे स्पेन  during the country 's War of Independence , and subsequent First Mexican Empire .
The current flag  थी अपनाया in 1968 , लकिन the overall डिज़ाइन रै महरूम  used since 1821 , when the First National Flag was created .
The current law of national  प्रतीकों , विधि on the नेशनल बाहें , ध्वज ,  and Anthem , that governs the use of the national flag has been in place since 1984 .
रेड , श्वेत , और ग्रीन हैं the रंगों  of the national liberation army in Mexico .
The central emblem is the Aztec pictogram for Tenochtitlan (  अभी मैक्सिको नगर ) , the बीच of उनके  empire .
It recalls the legend  कि प्रेरित the aztecs to settle on  what was originally a lake-island .
The form of the  कोट of बाहें थी सबसे recently  revised in 1968 .
A ribbon  in the नेशनल रंगों is at the  bottom of the coat of arms .
Throughout history  , the ध्वज रै बदला चार टाइम्स , as the डिज़ाइन  of the coat of arms and the length-width ratios of the flag have been modified .
However , the coat of  बाहें रै था the वही सुविधाएँ throughout : an त्रिभुज , पकड़कर a serpent  in its talon , is perched on top of a prickly pear cactus ; the cactus is situated on a rock that rises above a lake .
The coat of arms is derived from an Aztec  लेजेंड कि उनके देवताओं बताई उन्हें to निर्माण a नगर जहाँ वे स्पॉट an त्रिभुज on  a nopal eating a serpent , which is now Mexico City .
The current national flag , the  चौथी नेशनल ध्वज , is भी प्रयुक्त as the  Mexican naval ensign by ships registered in Mexico .
A destination marketing organization or convention and visitor bureau promotes a town ,  नगर , प्रदेश , or देश in अनुक्रम to बढ़ाएँ  the number of visitors .
It promotes the development and  विपणन of a गंतव्य , focusing on सम्मेलन बिक्री , पर्यटन विपणन  , and services .
Such organizations promote economic development of a destination by increasing visits from tourists and business travelers , which generates overnight lodging for a  गंतव्य , विज़िट to रेस्तरां , और खरीदारी revenues .
Convention and visitor bureaus are the most important tourism marketing  संगठन in उनके संबंधित पर्यटक गंतव्यों , as वे हैं सीधे जिम्मेदार लिये विपणन  the destination brand through travel and tourism `` product awareness '' to visitors .
DMOs produce billions of  डॉलर in सीधा और अप्रत्यक्ष आय और कर लिये  their destinations ' economies with their marketing and sales expertise .
Destination marketing organizations are often called  सफर , सम्मेलन , विज़िटर , or पर्यटन  bureaux , welcome centers , information centers and more .
Regardless of the name  , ये संगठन प्रस्ताव अनेक  services to the traveling public .
The elk or wapiti ( Cervus canadensis ) is  एक of the largest प्रजाति of हिरण in the संसार , और एक of the  largest land mammals in North America and eastern Asia .
It was long believed to be a subspecies of the European red deer ( Cervus elaphus ) , but evidence from a 2004  पढ़ाई of the mitochondrial डीएनए indicates कि the दो  are distinct species .
This  एनिमल चाहिए नहीं be  confused with the larger moose ( Alces alces ) , to which the name `` elk '' applies in Eurasia .
अलावा इससे the मूस , the  only other member of the deer family to rival the elk in size is the south Asian sambar ( Rusa unicolor ) .
Elk range in  वन और forest-edge आवास  , feeding on grasses , plants , leaves , and bark .
Although native to North America and eastern Asia , they have adapted well to countries where they have  महरूम introduced , सहित अर्जेंटीना , ऑस्ट्रेलिया  , and New Zealand .
Their great adaptability may  threaten endemic प्रजाति और ecosystems  into which they have been introduced .
Male elk have large antlers  जिससे हैं शेड  each year .
Males also engage in ritualized mating behaviors during the rut ,  सहित posturing , antler कुश्ती ( sparring ) , और bugling , a लाउड श्रेणी of vocalizations  which establishes dominance over other males and attracts females .
नीलगाय हैं susceptible to a क्रमांक of संक्रामक  diseases , some of which can be transmitted to livestock .
Efforts to  eliminate संक्रामक रोगों इससे नीलगाय populations , largely  through vaccination , have had mixed success .
Some  संस्कृतियों आदर the  elk as a spiritual force .
In parts of Asia , antlers and their velvet are  प्रयुक्त in परंपरागत दवाइयाँ  .
Elk are hunted as a game species ; the meat  is leaner और उच्चतर in  protein than beef or chicken .
The George Washington University ( GW , GWU , or George  वॉशिंगटन ) is a व्यापक निजी , coeducational  research university located in Washington , D.C. .
It awards  प्रमाणपत्र , स्नातक डिग्री ,  Masters degrees , and PhDs across several dozen disciplines .
The university  थी चार्टर्ड by an अधिनियम of कॉंग्रेस on फ़रवरी  9 , 1821 as The Columbian College in the District of Columbia .
The lion (  पेंथेरा leo ) is एक of the चार बिग बिल्लियों in the genus  Panthera and a member of the family Felidae .
With  कुछ males exceeding in वज़न , it is  the second-largest living cat after the tiger .
Wild lions  फिलहाल मौजूद in sub-saharan अफ़्रीकी और in एशिया ( जहाँ an endangered remnant जनसांख्यिकी  resides in Gir Forest National Park in India ) while other types of lions have disappeared from North Africa and Southwest Asia in historic times .
Until the late Pleistocene , about 10,000 years ago , the lion was  the सबसे फैली विशाल जमीन  mammal after humans .
They were found in most of  अफ़्रीकी , आरपार यूरेशिया इससे पश्चिमी  Europe to India , and in the Americas from the Yukon to Peru .
The lion is a vulnerable species , having seen a  प्रमुख जनसांख्यिकी मनाही of 30–50 % over the पास्ट दो  decades in its African range .
शेर populations हैं untenable  outside designated reserves and national parks .
Although  the कारण of the मनाही is नहीं fully समझा , आवास घाटा और  conflicts with humans are currently the greatest causes of concern .
Within Africa , the West African lion  जनसांख्यिकी is विशेषकर endangered  .
Lions live for 10–14  सालो in the जंगली , जबकि in captivity  they can live longer than 20 years .
In the wild , males seldom live longer than 10  सालो , as चोटों sustained इससे continual लड़ साथ प्रतिद्वंद्वी males  greatly reduce their longevity .
They typically inhabit savanna and  घासभूमि , हालांकि वे may लो  to bush and forest .
Lions  हैं unusually सोशल  compared to other cats .
A pride of  शेर consists of सम्बन्धित  females and offspring and a small number of adult males .
Groups of female lions typically hunt together ,  preying ज़्यादातर on विशाल ungulates  .
Lions  हैं apex और keystone परभक्षी , हालांकि  they scavenge as opportunity allows .
जबकि शेर do  not typically hunt humans , some have been known to do so .
sleeping मुख्यतः  during the day , lions are primarily nocturnal , although bordering on crepuscular in nature .
Highly distinctive , the male lion is easily recognised by its mane , and its face is one  of the सबसे widely recognised एनिमल प्रतीकों in इंसान संस्कृति  .
Depictions have existed from the Upper Paleolithic period ,  साथ उत्कीर्णन और paintings इससे the lascaux और chauvet गुफाएं , through  virtually all ancient and medieval cultures where they once occurred .
It has been extensively depicted in sculptures , in  paintings , on नेशनल  flags , and in contemporary films and literature .
शेर have महरूम रखा in menageries चूंकि the समय of the रोमन  Empire , and have been a key species sought for exhibition in zoos over the world since the late 18th century .
Zoos are cooperating worldwide in  प्रजनन कार्यक्रम लिये the endangered  Asiatic subspecies .
In the history of video games , the seventh generation of consoles is the previous generation , and  शामिल consoles released चूंकि लेट by निन्टेंडो ,  Microsoft , and Sony .
For home  consoles , the सातवाँ पीढी began on 22 नवम्बर 2005 साथ the रिलीज  of Xbox 360 and continued with the release of PlayStation 3 on 11 November 2006 , and Wii on 19 November 2006 .
Each  नई कंसोल introduced a नई प्रकार  of breakthrough in technology .
The Xbox 360 offered games rendered natively at HD resolutions , the PlayStation 3 offered , in addition to FHD gaming ,  hd फिल्म प्लेबैक via a built-in 3d blu-ray डिस्क खिलाड़ी , और the वी केन्द्रित  on integrating controllers with movement sensors as well as joysticks .
Joining Nintendo in the motion market ,  सोनी released the प्लेस्टेशन मूव in सितंबर  2010 .
The PlayStation Move features  गति संवेदन गेमिंग , समान to कि of the  Wii .
microsoft भी joined सोनी  and Nintendo , with its Kinect .
नापसंद the अन्य दो प्रणालियों ( प्लेस्टेशन 3 और वी ) , kinect करता  not use any controllers of any sort and makes the users the `` controller . ''
Having sold 8 million  इकाई in इसके पहला 60 दिनों on the मार्केट , kinect रै claimed the गिनीज  World Record of being the `` fastest selling consumer electronics device '' .
While the Xbox 360 offers wired controllers as a standalone product , all PlayStation 3  परिरक्षक can be प्रयुक्त in तार और बेतार  configurations .
starting साथ हैंडहेल्ड consoles , the सातवाँ पीढी began on 21 नवम्बर 2004 साथ the उत्तर अमरीकी परिचय  of the Nintendo DS as a `` third pillar '' , alongside Nintendo 's existing Game Boy Advance and GameCube consoles .
The Nintendo DS ( NDS ) features a touch  स्क्रीन और built-in  microphone , and supports wireless IEEE 802.11 ( Wi-Fi ) standards .
Additionally , the revised version of the NDS , the DSi  , सुविधाएँ दो निर्मित in कैमरे  , the ability to download games from the DSi store , and a web browser .
The PlayStation Portable , or PSP , released later the same year on 12 December 2004  , followed a अलग  pattern .
It became the first handheld video game console to use an optical disc format  , सार्वभौमिक मीडिया डिस्क (  UMD ) , as its primary storage media .
Sony also gave  the psp मजबूत multi-media काबिलियत , कनेक्टिविटी  with the PlayStation 3 and other PSPs , and Internet connectivity .
The Nintendo DS  likewise रै कनेक्टिविटी to the अंतरजाल through the निन्टेंडो wi-fi कनेक्शन और निन्टेंडो ds ब्राउजर  , as well as wireless connectivity to other DS systems and Wii consoles .
Despite high sales numbers for both consoles , PlayStation Portable sales have consistently lagged behind those of the  निन्टेंडो ds ; nevertheless , the प्लेस्टेशन पोर्टेबल  has the distinction of being the best-selling non-Nintendo handheld gaming system .
Sgt . Pepper 's Lonely Hearts Club Band  ( प्रायः shortened to sgt . pepper ) is the आठवीं  studio album by English rock band the Beatles .
released in जून 1967 , the एल्बम शामिल गीतों ऐसे as `` साथ  a Little Help from My Friends `` , `` Lucy in the Sky with Diamonds `` , and `` A Day in the Life `` .
Continuing the artistic maturation seen on the band 's album Revolver ( 1966 ) , Sgt . Pepper further departed from the conventional pop rock  मुहावरा of the समय और incorporated  balladry , psychedelic , music hall , and symphonic influences .
During the Sgt . Pepper sessions , the group improved upon the quality  of उनके म्यूज़िक 's उत्पादन जबकि exploring प्रायोगिक  recording techniques .
Producer George  मार्टिन 's अभिनव दृष्टिकोण शामिल  the use of an orchestra .
Widely acclaimed and imitated , the album cover , designed by English pop artists Peter  ब्लेक और jann haworth , थी प्रेरित by a  sketch by Paul McCartney that depicted the band posing in front of a collage of some of their favourite celebrities .
Sgt . Pepper was a worldwide critical and commercial  कामयाबी , बिता 27 सप्ताह at the शीर्ष of the uk  Album Chart and 15 weeks at number one on the US Billboard 200 .
A  seminal कार्य in the उभरते साइकेडेलिक चट्टान स्टाइल , the एल्बम थी  critically acclaimed upon release and won four Grammy Awards in 1968 .
With an  अनुमानित 32 लाख नक़ल बेची  , it is one of the world 's best selling albums .
Sgt . Pepper is considered by many to be the most influential and famous rock album ever , and has  महरूम नामित the महानतम एल्बम of सब समय by दोनो सब समय  Top 1000 Albums and Rolling Stone .
The temporal lobe is a region of the cerebral  cortex कि is स्तिथ beneath the पार्श्ववर्ती फिशर on दोनो दिमागी  hemispheres of the mammalian brain .
The temporal lobes are involved in the retention of visual memories , processing sensory input  , comprehending भाषा , storing नई यादें , जज्बात  , and deriving meaning .
The  इंसान फेफड़े हैं the अंगों  of respiration in humans .
Humans have two lungs , a  सही फेफड़ों और a बाएँ  lung .
The right lung consists of three lobes while the left lung is slightly  छोटी consisting of तभी दो निर्मोक ( the बाएँ फेफड़ों रै a `` हृदय पायदान ''  allowing space for the heart within the chest ) .
Together , the lungs contain approximately of airways and 300 to 500 million alveoli ,  having a कुल सतह क्षेत्रफल of परिचय ( ) in वयस्कों — roughly the वही क्षेत्रफल as एक पक्ष of a टेनिस  court .
Furthermore , if all of the  capillaries कि घेर the alveoli यहूद unwound  and laid end to end , they would extend for about .
Each  फेफड़ों weighs , इसलिए  making the entire organ about .
इंसान  lungs
The trachea divides into two  bronchi ( एक लिये प्रत्येक पक्ष ) at the  level of T4 .
This  जंक्शन is भी ज्ञात as  the carina .
The conducting zone contains the trachea , the bronchi ,  the bronchioles , और the टर्मिनल bronchioles the respiratory मण्डल contains the respiratory  bronchioles , the alveolar ducts , and the alveoli .
The conducting zone  और the respiratory stuffers (  but not the alveoli ) are made up of airways .
The conducting zone has no gas exchange with the blood , and is  reinforced साथ उपास्थि in अनुक्रम to थाम खोलें the एयरवेज़  .
The conducting zone  warms the  air to and humidifies the air .
It also cleanses  the एयर by निकालना अणु via  cilia located on the walls of all the passageways .
The lungs are  घिरी by  the rib cage .
The  respiratory मण्डल is the साईट of गैस एक्सचेंज  with blood .
The sympathetic nervous system via  noradrenaline एक्टिंग on the बीटा receptors  causes bronchodilation .
The  parasympathetic बेचैन प्रणाली via acetylcholine , जिससे  acts on the M-3 muscarinic receptors , maintains the resting tone of the bronchiolar smooth muscle .
This action  is सम्बन्धित , हालांकि माना  distinct from bronchoconstriction .
Many other non-autonomic  बेचैन और biochemical stimuli , सहित कार्बन डाइऑक्साइड और ऑक्सीजन  , are also involved in the regulation process .
The pleural cavity is the potential space between the parietal pleura , lining the  भीतरी वॉल of the thoracic पिंजरा , और the visceral pleura अस्तर the फेफड़े .
The lung parenchyma is strictly used to refer solely to alveolar tissue with respiratory  bronchioles , alveolar नलिकाएं और टर्मिनल bronchioles  .
However , it often includes any form of lung  ऊतक , भी सहित bronchioles , bronchi , रक्त बरतन और फेफड़ों  interstitium .
The margarita is a Mexican cocktail consisting of tequila mixed with Cointreau  or समान नारंगी -flavoured liqueur और लाइम or नीबू रस , प्रायः परोसा साथ नमक on the कांच रिम .
It is the  सबसे आम tequila-based  cocktail in the United States .
The drink is served shaken with ice ( on the  रॉक्स ) , blended साथ बर्फ ( frozen मार्गरिटा ) , or बगैर  ice ( straight up ) .
Two bottles of  रेड बरगंडी वाइन  from Gevrey-Chambertin , Côtes de Nuits
Burgundy is a dark red  रंग संबद्ध साथ the बरगंडी वाइन of the वही नाम ,  which in turn is named after the Burgundy region of France .
The  रंग बरगंडी is  similar to other shades of dark red such as maroon .
When referring to the color , ``  बरगंडी '' is प्रायः नहीं capitalized  .
The first recorded use of ``  बरगंडी '' as a रंग नाम in अंग्रेज़ी  was in 1881 .
Grave of an unknown British  सिपाही , मारे in 1943  during the Battle of Leros .
क्युकी उसके पहचान is  unknown , he is missing in action .
Grave of an unknown  अमरीकी सिपाही in oise-aisne  Cemetery .
Killed  in 1917
Grave of  an अनजान छत्रसेना  , killed in the Battle of Arnhem , 1944 .
Photographed  in अप्रैल 1945
Graves of 11 unknown British  सैनिको मारे दौरान संसार  War II , in Rhodes CWGC war cemetery
Wall  crypts containing remains of अनजान  Italian soldiers killed during World War II , in a Rhodes cemetery
Some of  the 72,000 names  inscribed on the Thiepval Memorial to the Missing of the Somme
क़ब्रों of अनजान  French soldiers killed during World War One .
Each concrete cross has a metal plaque bearing the word ``  inconnu '' i.e . ``  Unknown ''
Ossuary at the Gallipoli battlefield , containing the remains of 3000  unidentified फ्रेंच सैनिको जो died in 1915
Graves of  अनजान eritrean ascaris मारे  in 1941 during the Battle of Keren
Missing in action ( MIA ) is a casualty Category assigned under the Status of Missing to armed services personnel who are  reported लापता दौरान क्रियाशील  service .
They may have been killed , wounded  , become a कैदी of युद्ध , or उजाड़  .
If  मृतक , neither उनके remains  nor grave can be positively identified .
Becoming MIA has been an occupational risk  लिये सेवा कर्मियों लिये as long as  there has been warfare .
Chamber of Commerce  भवन in बीच  .
This building is the original  कारावास , निर्मित साथ साथ the ऐतिहासिक  Courthouse .
Both  बैठना on the  Town Square .
The Rio  थिएटर in  Center
First  बैपटिस्ट गिरिजाघर at 117 कोरा गली  in Center is located next to the downtown section .
First Christian Church at 124 Cora Street in Center is one of the  oldest congregations in the जातियाँ  .
Center is a city in Shelby County  , टेक्सास , संयुक्त राज्य  .
The  जनसांख्यिकी थी 5,193 at  the 2010 census .
It is the  काउंटी सीट of  Shelby County .
It is named for its location near the  बीच of शेल्बी काउंटी , नहीं लिये इसके स्थान  in Texas as it is located near the Louisiana border .
Intense red-eye effect in blue  आँखें साथ dilated pupil
The red-eye effect in photography is the common  रूप of रेड विद्यार्थियों in रंग छायाचित्र of  eyes .
It occurs when using a  फ़ोटोग्राफ़िक फ्लैश बहुत बंद to the कैमरा लेंस ( as साथ  most compact cameras ) , in ambient low light .
The effect appears in the eyes of humans and animals  कि have tapetum lucidum .
Theatrical followspot operators , positioned nearly coincidentally with a very bright light and somewhat  दूर इससे the अभिनेताओं , occasionally गवाह red-eye in अभिनेताओं on स्टेज  .
The effect is not visible to  the बाकी of the दर्शक क्युकी it is reliant  on the very small angle between the followspot operator and the light .
The University of California , Santa Barbara ( commonly referred to as UC Santa Barbara or UCSB ) is a public research  विश्वविद्यालयों और एक of the टेन सामान्य campuses of the विश्वविद्यालयों of कैलिफ़ोर्निया  system .
The main campus is located on a site in Goleta , California , United States , from Santa  बारबरा और उत्तरपश्चिम of लॉस एंजिल्स  .
Tracing its roots back to 1891 as an independent teachers ' college , UCSB joined the University of California system in 1944 and is the  third-oldest general-education कैम्पस in the प्रणाली  .
UCSB is one of America 's  पब्लिक आइवी विश्वविद्यालयों , जिससे recognizes शीर्ष पब्लिक  research universities in the United States .
The university is a comprehensive doctoral university and is organized into  पाँच कॉलेजों और स्कूलों offering 87 undergraduate डिग्री  and 55 graduate degrees .
The campus  is the 6th-largest in the uc प्रणाली by नामांकन साथ  18,977 undergraduate and 2,950 graduate students .
In 2012 , UCSB was ranked 41st among `` National  विश्वविद्यालयों '' और 10th among पब्लिक विश्वविद्यालयों  by U.S. News & World Report .
The university was  भी क्रमित 35th विश्वव्यापी by the टाइम्स उच्चतर शिक्षा संसार  University Rankings and 34th worldwide ( 6th worldwide for engineering ) by the Academic Ranking of World Universities in 2012. < ref name= '' Shanghairanking.com/FieldENG2012 '' >
UC Santa Barbara is a `` very high activity ''  शोध विश्वविद्यालयों और खर्च $ 191.2 लाख on शोध expenditures  in the 2007 fiscal year , 97th-largest in the United States .
UCSB houses twelve national research centers  , सहित the प्रसिद्ध kavli संस्थान  for Theoretical Physics .
UCSB faculty includes five Nobel Prize  laureates , एक फ़ील्ड medalist , 29 सदस्यों of the नेशनल अकादमी of sciences  , 27 members of the National Academy of Engineering , and 31 members of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences .
UCSB was the No . 3 host on the ARPAnet  और थी निर्वाचित to the संघ of अमरीकी  Universities in 1995 .
The UC Santa Barbara Gauchos compete  in the ncaa प्रभाग i बिग  West Conference .
The Gauchos have won NCAA national  championships in मेन 's सॉकर और मेन 's जल  polo .
संत जोसेफ  with the Infant Jesus by Guido Reni
Saint Joseph 's Day , March 19 , the Feast of  st. जोसेफ is in पश्चिमी christianity the प्रिंसिपल feast  day of Saint Joseph , Spouse of the Blessed Virgin Mary .
He is also  the step-father of यीशु  of Nazareth /Jesus Christ .
It has the rank of a  solemnity in the रोमन कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर ; catholics जो follow  the Missal of 1962 celebrate it as a first class feast .
Previous to  1962 it थी मनाये as a feast  of the rank of double of the first class .
It is a feast or commemoration in the provinces of the Anglican  नियाज़ , और a feast or पर्व  in the Lutheran Church .
Saint  जोसेफ 's दिन is the patronal feast दिन लिये कैंडल as खूब as लिये कनाडा , व्यक्तियों नामित  Joseph , Josephine , etc. , for religious institutes , schools and parishes bearing his name , and for carpenters .
It is also Father 's Day in some  कैथोलिक देशों , मुख्यतः स्पेन  , Portugal , and Italy .
March 19 was dedicated to Saint Joseph in several Western  पंचांग by the दसवाँ सदी , और इस कस्टम थी  established in Rome by 1479 .
Pope St. Pius V extended its use to the entire Roman Rite by  उसके अपोस्टोलिक संविधान quo  Primum ( July 14 , 1570 ) .
Since 1969 , Episcopal  सम्मेलनों may , if वे काश , ट्रांसफ़र  it to a date outside Lent .
Between 1870 and 1955 , a feast was celebrated in honor of St. Joseph as Spouse of the  धन्य वर्जिन मरियम और संरक्षक of the सार्वभौमिक गिरिजाघर , the latter  title having been given to him by Pope Pius IX .
Originally celebrated on the third Sunday after  ईस्टर साथ an अष्टक , बाद divino afflatu of st. पायस x (  see Reform of the Roman Breviary by Pope Pius X ) , it was moved to the preceding Wednesday .
The feast was also retitled The  solemnity of संत  Joseph .
This celebration and its accompanying octave was abolished during the modernisation and  सरलीकरण of rubrics अंतर्गत पोप  Pius XII in 1955 .
It is  स्टिल कायम by catholics  who follow the missal of 1962 or earlier missals .
As the traditional holiday of the Apostles Ss . Philip and James , May 1 , had faded  इससे the मेमोरी of सबसे catholics by the mid-twentieth सदी , कि of जोसेफ the कार्यकर्ता थी निर्मित in अनुक्रम to coincide साथ  the celebration of international Labour Day ( May Day ) in many countries .
The feast of Ss .  फिलिप और जेम्स , जिससे था महरूम मनाये on कि तिथि चूंकि  the sixth century , was moved from its traditional place .
In the new  पंचांग प्रकाशित in 1969 , the feast , जिससे  at one time occupied the highest possible rank in the Church calendar , was reduced to an optional Memorial , the lowest rank for a saint 's day .
The Eastern  परंपरागत गिरिजाघर मनाता  Saint Joseph on the Sunday after Christmas .
Mariah Carey ( born March 27 , 1970 ) is an American singer , songwriter ,  रिकार्ड निर्माता , अभिनेत्री , और लोकसेवक  .
Under the guidance of Columbia Records  कार्यपालिका टॉमी mottola , कैरी released उसके self-titled डेब्यू स्टुडियो एल्बम mariah कैरी in  1990 ; it went multi-platinum and spawned four consecutive number one singles on the U.S . Billboard Hot 100 chart .
Following her marriage to Mottola in 1993 and success  साथ hit रिकॉर्ड भाव ( 1991 ) , म्यूज़िक बक्सा  ( 1993 ) , and Merry Christmas ( 1994 ) , Carey was established as Columbia 's highest-selling act .
Daydream ( 1995 ) made music history when its second single `` One Sweet Day `` , a duet with Boyz II Men , spent a record sixteen weeks on top  of the बिलबोर्ड hot 100 , और remains the longest-running  number-one song in U.S. chart history .
During the recording of the album , Carey began to  deviate इससे उसके r &  B and pop beginnings and slowly traversed into hip hop .
This musical change became evident with the release of Butterfly (  1997 ) , at जिससे समय  Carey had separated from Mottola .
Carey left Columbia in 2000 , and  हस्ताक्षरित a record-breaking $ 100  million recording contract with Virgin Records .
Before the release of her first feature film Glitter ( 2001 ) , she suffered a physical  और emotional विश्लेषण और थी hospitalized  for severe exhaustion .
Following the film 's poor reception , she was bought out of her recording contract for $ 50 million ,  जिससे led to a मनाही in उसके करियर  .
She signed a multi-million dollar contract  सौदे साथ द्वीप रिकॉर्ड in 2002 , और  after an unsuccessful period , returned to the top of music charts with The Emancipation of Mimi ( 2005 ) .
Its second single `` We Belong Together `` became her most successful single of the 2000s , and was later named `` Song  of the दशक '' by बिलबोर्ड .
Carey once again ventured into film with a well-received starring  भूमिका in ( 2009 ) ; वो थी awarded the `` भेदन  Performance Award '' at the Palm Springs International Film Festival , and Black Reel and NAACP Image Award nominations .
In a  करियर spanning over दो दशकों , कैरी रै बेची अधिक than 200 लाख  records worldwide , making her one of the best-selling music artists of all time .
In 1998 , she was honored as the world 's  best-selling रिकॉर्डिंग  artist of the 1990s at the World Music Awards .
Carey was  भी नामित the best-selling मादा  artist of the millennium in 2000 .
According to the Recording Industry Association of America , she is the third best-selling female  कलाकार in the संयुक्त राज्य , साथ  63.5 million certified albums .
With the release of `` Touch My Body `` ( 2008 ) , Carey  gained उसके eighteenth क्रमांक एक सिंगल in the संयुक्त राज्य , अधिक  than any other solo artist .
In 2012 , Carey was ranked second on VH1 's list of  the `` 100 महानतम महिलाओं in  Music '' .
Aside from her  वाणिज्यिक accomplishments , कैरी रै जीती पाँच  Grammy Awards , 17 World Music Awards , 11 American Music Awards , and 31 Billboard Music Awards .
Referred to as the `` songbird supreme '' by the Guinness World  रिकॉर्ड , वो is famed लिये उसके five-octave गायन दायरा  , power , melismatic style and signature use of the whistle register .
A bumblebee  is कोई सदस्य of the मधुमक्खी genus bombus  , in the family Apidae .
There are over 250  ज्ञात प्रजाति , मौजूदा primarily in the उत्तरी  Hemisphere although they also occur in South America .
They have been introduced to New Zealand and  the ऑस्ट्रेलियाई राज्य of  Tasmania .
Bumblebees are social insects that are  characterised by ब्लैक  and yellow body hairs , often in bands .
However , some species have orange or red  on उनके लाशें , or may be entirely  black .
Another obvious ( but not  अद्वितीय ) characteristic is the नरम प्रकृति of the बाल ( long  , branched setae ) , called pile , that covers their entire body , making them appear and feel fuzzy .
They are best distinguished from similarly large , fuzzy bees by the form  of the मादा हिन्द लेग , जिससे is परिवर्धित to रूप a corbicula : a चमकदार concave  surface that is bare , but surrounded by a fringe of hairs used to transport pollen ( in similar bees , the hind leg is completely hairy , and pollen grains are wedged into the hairs for transport ) .
Like their relatives the honey bees , bumblebees feed on nectar  और एकत्रित पराग  to feed their young .
A man  खुलकर carrying a handgun  in a Burger King in Eagle , Colorado .
In the United States , open  carry is आशुलिपि शब्दावली लिये `` खुलकर carrying a firearm in पब्लिक '' ,  as distinguished from concealed carry , where firearms can not be seen by the casual observer .
The  अभ्यास of खोलें carry , जहाँ गन स्वामी खुलकर carry firearms  while they go about their daily business , has seen an increase in the U.S. in recent years .
This has been marked by a  क्रमांक of व्यवस्थित कार्यक्रम intended to बढ़ाएँ  the visibility of open carry and public awareness about the practice .
Proponents of open carry point to history and  आंकडे , noting कि अपराधियों प्रायः  conceal their weapons .
Encouraged by groups like  opencarry.org , georgiacarry.org और कुछ भागीदार of the फ़्री राज्य प्रोजेक्ट , खोलें carry रै देखी a पुनरुद्धार in हाल  years , but it is not yet clear if this represents just a short-term trend .
The gun rights community has been mixed in  इसके जवाब  .
एलन gottlieb of the दूसरी amendment न्यास और the nra have महरूम cautious in expressing support  , while special-interest groups such as the aforementioned OpenCarry.org and GeorgiaCarry.org , and certain national groups such as the Gun Owners of America ( GOA ) have been more outspoken in favor of the practice .
Open carry is strongly opposed by gun control groups such as the Brady Campaign and the  गठबन्धन to रोकें गन हिंसा  .
the cattenom नाभिकीय  Power Plant in France .
France  produces around तीन quarters  of its electricity by nuclear power .
The Grafenrheinfeld Nuclear  शक्ति संयंत्र in जर्मनी  .
चांसलर एंजेला मार्केल 's गठबन्धन घोषित on may 30 , 2011 , कि  Germany’s 17 nuclear power stations will be shut down by 2022 , in a policy reversal following Japan 's Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster .
Currently  , 68 रिएक्टरों हैं अंतर्गत  construction in 15 countries .
नाभिकीय शक्ति  stations operate in thirty countries .
In 2010 , before the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster , it  थी reported कि an औसत of परिचय 10 नाभिकीय रिएक्टरों यहूद अपेक्षित to become operational प्रति साल , हालांकि  according to the World Nuclear Association , of the 17 civilian reactors planned to become operational between 2007 and 2009 , only five actually came on stream .
as of जून 2011 , जर्मनी और  Switzerland are phasing-out nuclear power .
As of June 2011 , countries such as Australia , Austria , Denmark , Greece , Ireland , Italy , Latvia , Liechtenstein , Luxembourg ,  मलेशिया , माल्टा , नई जीलैंड , नार्वे और पुर्तगाल  remain opposed to nuclear power .
Color motion picture film refers both to unexposed color photographic film in a format suitable for use in a motion picture camera , and to finished motion picture film , ready for use  in a प्रोजेक्टर , जिससे bears बिंब in रंग .
The first color  cinematography थी by अर्थात् of योगात्मक रंग प्रणालियों ऐसे as  the one patented in England by Edward Raymond Turner in 1899 and tested in 1902 .
A simplified additive system was developed by George Albert Smith and successfully  commercialized  in 1909 as Kinemacolor .
These early systems used black-and-white film to photograph and project  दो or अधिक घटक बिंब through अलग  color filters .
Still from footage recorded  by एडवर्ड टर्नर  in 1902
With the present-day technology , there are two distinct processes : Eastman Color Negative 2 chemistry (  कैमरा ऋणात्मक स्टॉक्स , duplicating interpositive और internegative स्टॉक्स ) और eastman रंग  Positive 2 chemistry ( positive prints for direct projection ) , usually abbreviated as ECN-2 and ECP-2 .
Fuji 's  उत्पाद हैं  compatible with ECN-2 and ECP-2 .
Ashanti Shequoiya Douglas ( born October 13 , 1980 ) is an American singer-songwriter ,  रिकार्ड निर्माता , और अभिनेत्री  .
Ashanti is most famous for her eponymous debut album , which featured the hit song `` Foolish `` , and  बेची over 503,000 नक़ल in इसके पहला सप्ताह of रिलीज throughout  the U.S. in April 2002 .
The  एल्बम नियत a soundscan रिकार्ड as the biggest  opening week sales for a new female artist , outselling debuts by Alicia Keys and Lauryn Hill .
In the same week , she became the first female performer to simultaneously hold the top two places on the  बिलबोर्ड hot 100 singles चार्ट साथ `` foolish ''  , and `` What 's Luv ? ``
( with  मोटे जो )  .
Ashanti broke records again by having three top ten songs , `` Foolish ,  '' `` कया 's luv ? '' और `` सदा on समय `` , on the बिलबोर्ड hot 100 चार्ट in the वही सप्ताह  , being the first woman to accomplish this feat and being second only to the Beatles .
In 2003 , the  self-titled डेब्यू एल्बम जीती  Ashanti her first Grammy Award for Best Contemporary R & B album .
As of April 1st 2013 ,  ashanti रै बेची over 27.7 लाख  records worldwide .
Ashanti ended the decade ( 2000–09 ) as the  तीसरा शीर्ष नई r & b कलाकार पीछे एलिसिया  Keys and Beyoncé .
वो भी ended the दशक  at number 38 on the Top Artist of the Decade list .
She is currently on the list of The Twenty Best Selling  म्यूज़िक singles चूंकि 1990 लिये उसके सिंगल foolish लिये selling 7.2  million copies to-date .
Ashanti has an  अनुमानित जाल लायक of $  40 million dollars [ USD ] .
Ashanti wrote and sang background on Jennifer Lopez 's `` Ai n't It Funny ( Murder Remix ) `` , which reached number one on Billboard Hot 100 , which  थी भी in the शीर्ष 10 चार्ट at the वही समय as `` foolish '' , `` सदा  on Time '' ( with Ja Rule ) , and `` What 's Luv '' ( with Fat Joe ) .
Later that year , she  थी acclaimed as the `` राजकुमारी of hip-hop &  R & B '' by her label and capped off her successful debut by winning eight Billboard awards and two American Music Awards .
Within  सात सालो of ashanti  's career , she has scored 16 top 40 hits on the Hot 100 .
Ashanti has endorsed numerous  उत्पाद सहित गैप , हर्बल  Essences and Mudd Jeans .
Ashanti cites Whitney Houston , Janet Jackson , Prince , Madonna , Tupac Shakur , Mary J. Blige , Ella Fitzgerald  , नशीले रॉबिन्सन , डोना गर्मियाँ , और ब्लू जादू as उसके musical  influences .
Praised as a gifted songwriter by her peers and critics  alike , ashanti रै written/co-written the बल्क  of all her music .
वो is फिलहाल working on  her own publishing company entitled Written Entertainment .
She released her fourth studio album entitled The Declaration on June 3 ,  2008 और is फिलहाल in the स्टुडियो  working on her fifth .
She also performed the charity tune `` Just Stand Up `` alongside 15 other female singers for the `` Stand Up to  कर्कट '' सजीव टेलीविज़न खास जिससे helped उठाएँ $ 100 लाख  dollars for cancer research .
The United  राज्य फौज एयर शक्तियां ( usaaf or aaf ) थी the सैन्य विमानन भुजा of the संयुक्त राज्य of अमेरिका दौरान और तत्काल बाद  World War II , and the direct predecessor of the United States Air Force .
The AAF was a component of the United States Army , which in 1942  थी विभाजित functionally by कार्यपालिका अनुक्रम into तीन autonomous शक्तियां :  the Army Ground Forces , the Services of Supply ( which in 1943 became the Army Service Forces ) , and the AAF .
Each of these forces had a commanding general who reported directly to the  मुख्य of स्टाफ of the संयुक्त राज्य  Army .
The AAF administered all parts of military aviation  formerly वितरित among the फौज एयर corps , सामान्य मुख्यालय एयर फ़ोर्स , और मैदान शक्तियां corps क्षेत्रफल कमांडरों , और यूँ became the पहला एयर  organization of the U.S. Army to control its own installations and support personnel .
in अभ्यास , the aaf थी  virtually autonomous inside the Army .
The peak size of the AAF was over 2.4 million men and women in  सेवा और nearly 80,000 वायुयान in 1944 , और 783 घरेलू  bases in December 1943 .
By VE Day it had 1.25 million men  stationed विदेशी और संचालित इससे  more than 1,600 airfields worldwide .
The Air Corps became the Army Air  शक्तियां in जून 1941 to provide the एयर भुजा a वृहद स्वायत्तता in जिससे to विस्तार अधिक efficiently , और to provide a ढांचा लिये  the additional command echelons required by a vastly increased force .
Although other nations already had separate air forces independent of  the फौज or नेवी ( ऐसे as the अंग्रेजों royal एयर फ़ोर्स और the जर्मनी luftwaffe ) , the  AAF remained a part of the United States Army until the United States Air Force came into being in September 1947 .
However , in its expansion and conduct of the  युद्ध , the aaf became अधिक  than just an arm of the greater organization .
By the end of World War II the AAF had  become वस्तुतः an स्वतंत्र सेवा  .
By regulation and executive order , the AAF was  a अधीनस्थ एजेंसी of the युद्ध विभाग tasked तभी साथ आयोजन , प्रशिक्षण  , and equipping combat units , limited in responsibility to the continental United States , as were the Army Ground Forces and the Army Service Forces .
In reality , Headquarters AAF controlled the conduct of all aspects of the air war in every part of  the संसार , determining एयर नीति और issuing आदेश बगैर  transmitting them through the Chief of Staff .
This `` contrast  between सिद्धान्त और फैक्ट is ... आधारभूत  to an understanding of the AAF . ''
The Freedom of Information Act ( FOIA ) is a federal freedom of  सूचना विधि कि allows लिये the पूरा or आंशिक प्रकटीकरण of  previously unreleased information and documents controlled by the United States government .
The Act defines agency records subject to disclosure  , outlines अनिवार्य  disclosure procedures and grants nine exemptions to the statute .
It was originally signed into law by  अध्यक्ष lyndon B. जॉनसन , despite  his misgivings , on July 4 , 1966 as and went into effect the following year .
The Federal Government 's Freedom of  सूचना अधिनियम चाहिए नहीं be उलझन  with the different and varying Freedom of Information Acts passed by the individual states .
Many of  those राज्य अधिनियमों may  be similar but not identical to the federal act .
the यूरोपीय संघ ( eu ) is an आर्थिक और  political union of 27 member states that are located primarily in Europe .
The EU operates  through a प्रणाली of supranational स्वतंत्र संस्थानों और intergovernmental  negotiated decisions by the member states .
Institutions of the EU  शामिल the यूरोपीय आयोग , the परिषद of the यूरोपीय  Union , the European Council , the Court of Justice of the European Union , the European Central Bank , the Court of Auditors , and the European Parliament .
the यूरोपीय पार्लियामेंट  is elected every five years by EU citizens .
The EU 's de  facto पूंजी  is Brussels .
The EU traces its origins from the European Coal and Steel Community ( ECSC ) and the European  आर्थिक जातियाँ ( eec ) , formed by the भीतरी  Six countries in 1951 and 1958 respectively .
In the intervening years the community and its successors have grown in size by the accession of new member states and in power by the  जोड of नीति क्षेत्रों  to its remit .
The Maastricht Treaty  स्थापित the यूरोपीय  Union under its current name in 1993 .
The latest major amendment  to the संवैधानिक आधार of the eu , the सन्धि  of Lisbon , came into force in 2009 .
The EU has  विकसित a सिंगल मार्केट through a  standardised system of laws that apply in all member states .
Within the Schengen Area ( which includes 22 EU and 4 non-EU  राज्य ) पासपोर्ट नियंत्रण have महरूम  abolished .
EU policies aim to ensure the free movement of people , goods , services , and capital , enact  विधान in  justice and home affairs , and maintain common policies on trade , agriculture , fisheries and regional development .
A monetary union , the eurozone , was  स्थापित in 1999 और is रचित of 17 सदस्य  states .
Through the Common Foreign and  सुरक्षा नीति the eu रै विकसित  a role in external relations and defence .
Permanent  राजनयिक मिशन  have been established around the world .
The EU is represented  at the संयुक्त राष्ट्र  , the WTO , the G8 and the G-20 .
With a combined population of over 500 million inhabitants , or 7.3 % of the world population , the EU  , in 2012 , उत्पन्न a नाममात्र सकल घरेलू उत्पाद ( जीडीपी ) of 16.584 खरब us डॉलर , representing लगभग 20 %  of the global GDP when measured in terms of purchasing power parity , and represents the largest nominal GDP and GDP PPP in the world .
The EU was the recipient of the 2012  नोबेल सलाम पुरस्कार  .
The Wales national rugby league  टोली represent  Wales in international rugby league football matches .
Currently the team is seventh in the  rlif संसार rankings .
The team were run under the auspices of the Rugby Football League , but an independent  देह , वेल्स रग्बी लीग , अभी रनों the  team from Cardiff .
A  कुल of तीन वेल्श खिलाड़ी have  been entered into the Rugby League Hall Of Fame .
Similar to many other Welsh national sporting teams , Wales strip has  महरूम primarily रेड लिये अनेक सालो , सहित  now .
However in their last World Cup campaign in 2000 they did wear a shirt featuring the  वेल्श ध्वज , adding a टच of ग्रीन और श्वेत  .
the टोली is ज्ञात as `` the ड्रेगन ''  and so the teams logo on the shirt is a red dragon .
The  टोली तिथि वापस to 1907 , बनाना उन्हें the  third oldest national side after England and New Zealand .
And it  थी a touring नई जीलैंड पक्ष कि वेल्स  first played against in 1908 , winning 9-8 at Aberdare .
Since  तब वेल्स have regularly निभाई इंग्लैण्ड , चूंकि 1935 फ़्रांस , as खूब as सत्कार  the touring Australia and New Zealand teams , although they rarely toured themselves , not playing a match in the Southern Hemisphere until 1975 .
For twenty-six years Wales  competed विरूद्ध उनके दो biggest विरोधियों , इंग्लैण्ड और फ़्रांस  , in the European Nations Cup , winning the trophy four times .
Wales have also competed in the World Cup on three  अवसरों , the पहला समय होने in  1975 .
in 1995 और 2000 वे था उनके सबसे कामयाब tournaments  to date , surprisingly making the Semi-Finals on both occasions before being beaten by England and Australia respectively .
Wales failed to qualify for the 2008 World Cup , being the second highest ranked side  नहीं to do so , having खोया to स्कॉटलैंड on अंक अंतर over दो  matches .
In  2008 ऑस्ट्रेलियाई जॉन डिक्सन became the  new head coach and appointed Lee Briers as captain , having played for Wales since 1998 .
In recent seasons Wales have taken massive strides under former player Iestyn Harris who has coached Wales to back to back  यूरोपीय कप सफलताओं , जिससे culminated in a चार राष्ट्र रूप  in 2011 .
Cardiomyopathy ( literally `` heart muscle disease '' )  is the measurable deterioration of the फलन of the myocardium ( the दिल मांसपेशी ) लिये कोई कारण , प्रायः  leading to heart failure ; common symptoms are dyspnea ( breathlessness ) and peripheral edema ( swelling of the legs ) .
People with cardiomyopathy are often at risk of dangerous forms  of irregular दिल  beat and sudden cardiac death .
The most common form of  cardiomyopathy is dilated cardiomyopathy  .
Fuck in its literal meaning  refers to the अधिनियम of यौन  intercourse .
It is an English word that is often used as a profanity , either to  denote तिरस्कार or as an intensifier  .
The origin of  the शब्द is  obscure .
It is usually considered to be first attested to  around 1475 , लकिन it may be considerably  older .
In modern usage , fuck and its derivatives ( such as fucker and fucking ) can be used in the position of  a संज्ञा , a क्रिया , an  adjective or an adverb .
There are many common phrases which make use of the  शब्द , as खूब as a क्रमांक of  compounds incorporating it , such as motherfucker .
Note : this article adopts the U.S. Department of Transportation 's  परिभाषा of a यात्री गाडी , to औसत a car or ट्रक , प्रयुक्त लिये  passengers , excluding buses and trains .
The United States is home to the  largest यात्री  vehicle market of any country in the world .
Overall , there were an estimated 254.4 million  पंजीकृत यात्री वाहनों in the  United States according to a 2007 DOT study .
This number , along with the average age of vehicles , has increased steadily since 1960 , indicating a  growing क्रमांक of वाहनों प्रति capita  .
The Chinese car market ,  however , is poised to जल्द exceed the संयुक्त राज्य ; by the समाप्त of 2012  , there were over 240 million cars on the road in China .
The United States is also home  to तीन विशाल गाडी निर्माताओं  : General Motors , Ford Motor Company and Chrysler , which have historically been referred to as the `` Big Three . ''
Chrysler however is no longer among the top three ; but  is क्रमांक पाँच , पीछे टोयोटा  and Honda .
The motor car has clearly become an integral part of American life , with  वाहनों outnumbering licensed  drivers .
Clinical laboratory in a Hospital setting  प्रर्दशित अनेक स्वचालित analysers  .
A  चिकित्सा प्रयोगशाला or नैदानिक प्रयोगशाला is a प्रयोगशाला जहाँ परीक्षण हैं  done on clinical specimens in order to get information about the health of a patient as pertaining to the diagnosis , treatment , and prevention of disease .
in पोकर , खिलाड़ी construct हैंड्स of पाँच ताश according  to predetermined rules , which vary according to which variant of poker is being played .
These hands are compared  using a हाथ रैंकिंग प्रणाली कि is मानक आरपार सब  variants of poker , the player with the highest-ranking hand winning that particular deal in most variants of poker .
In some  विसंगतियाँ , the lowest-ranking  hand can win or tie .
These hand  rankings हैं भी प्रयुक्त in कुछ अन्य कार्ड खेल  , and in poker dice .
The ranking of a  particular हाथ is increased by सहित अनेक ताश of the वही  card rank , by all five cards being from the same suit , or by all five cards being of consecutive rank .
The  सापेक्ष रैंकिंग  of the various hand categories is based on the probability of being randomly dealt such a hand from a well- shuffled deck .
Bruce Randall Hornsby ( born November 23 , 1954 ) is an  अमरीकी virtuoso ; a सिंगर , pianist , सिंथेसाइज़र  , accordion , and dulcimer player , and songwriter .
Known for the spontaneity and creativity of his live performances ,  hornsby draws अक्सर इससे शास्त्रीय , जैज़ , ब्लूग्रास , लोक , motown , इन्जील , चट्टान , ब्लूज़ , और jam बैंड musical  traditions with his songwriting and the seamless improvisations contained within .
Hornsby 's recordings have been recognised on  a क्रमांक of अवसरों साथ उद्योग पुरस्कार , सहित the बेहतरीन नई कलाकार ग्रैमी  in 1987 with Bruce Hornsby and the Range , the Best Bluegrass Recording Grammy in 1990 , and the Best Pop Instrumental Grammy in 1993 .
Hornsby has also achieved recognition for his solo albums and performances , his touring band Bruce Hornsby and the Noisemakers , his bluegrass project with Ricky Skaggs and  उसके दिखावे as a session- और guest-musician  .
He also collaborated with Grateful Dead and was a member of the band from September  1990 to कूच 1992 , playing at over एक सौ shows दौरान कि  period .
Sugarcane  वृक्षारोपण in ग्रामीण  Cuba
Agriculture in  क्यूबा रै निभाई an महत्वपूर्ण भाग  in the economy for several hundred years .
Agriculture  contributes कम than 10 प्रतिशत to the सकल घरेलू  product ( GDP ) , but it employs roughly 20 percent of the working population .
About 30  प्रतिशत of the देश 's  land is used for crop cultivation .
The inefficient  agricultural उद्योग in क्यूबा रै  led to the need to import large amounts of foods .
क्यूबा अभी imports परिचय 80 %  of the food it rations to the public .
The rationing program  खाते लिये परिचय a तीसरा of the खाना उर्जा  the average Cuban consumes .
Overall , however , Cuba is dependent on  imports लिये तभी 16  % of its food .
सही
Mega Millions ( initially called The Big Game Mega Millions  as the successor of the बिग खेल ) is an अमरीकी multi-jurisdictional  $ 1 lottery game .
The first ( The Big Game ) Mega Millions drawing  थी in 2002 ( देखिए नीचे  ) .
The minimum Mega Millions  advertised जैकपॉट is $ 12,000,000 , सशुल्क in 26  equal yearly installments ( unless the cash option is chosen ) ; usually , the jackpot increases when there is no top-prize winner .
However , despite no jackpot winner for the $  12,000,000 दिसम्बर 18 , 2012 आरेखण , the  jackpot remained at $ 12,000,000 for the drawing to be held on December 21 .
( See below  लिये सूचना on कैसा the खेल 's  jackpot is funded . )
Reflecting common practice among  अमरीकी lotteries , the जैकपॉट  is advertised as a nominal value of annual installments .
A cash value option ( the  usual चुनाव ) , जब चुनी by a जैकपॉट विजेता ( देखिए नीचे ) , pays the  approximate present value of the installments .
Mega Millions currently uses a  5/56 ( श्वेत गेंदें ) प्लस 1/46 ( the आचमन बॉल ) दोगुना  matrix to select its winning numbers .
Each game  लागत $  1 .
In 43 of the 44 Mega Millions jurisdictions ( California is the exception ) , there is an option , called Megaplier ( such  खेल हैं $ 2 प्रत्येक ) जहाँ non-jackpot पुरस्कार हैं  multiplied by 2 , 3 , or 4 .
The Megaplier was made available to all Mega Millions jurisdictions in January 2011 ; it began as a  टेक्सास -only विकल्प  .
Mega Millions is drawn at 10:59 p.m. Eastern time  मंगलवार और शुक्रवार , सहित  holidays .
Mega Millions is administered by a consortium of its 12  असली lotteries और the drawings हैं आयोजित at wsb-tv  in Atlanta , Georgia .
supervised  by the जॉर्जिया लॉटरी  .
The largest jackpot in Mega Millions , as well as  in अमरीकी लॉटरी इतिहास , थी $ 656,000,000 annuitized ( साथ a नकदी विकल्प of $ 474,000,000 ) लिये the कूच 30 , 2012  drawing in which there were three jackpot-winning tickets ; one each in Illinois , Kansas , and Maryland .
All  तीन टिकटें था महरूम claimed as of  April 18 , with each set of winners choosing the cash option .
is a  जापानी manga श्रेणी निर्मित by लेखक tsugumi  Ohba and manga artist Takeshi Obata .
The main  अक्षर is लाइट yagami , a ऊँची स्कूल छात्र जो discovers  a supernatural notebook , the `` Death Note '' , dropped on Earth by a shinigami ( a god of death ) named Ryuk .
The Death  नोट अनुदान इसके उपयोक्ता the क्षमता to मार anyone जिनकी नाम  and face they know , by writing the name in the notebook while picturing their face .
The series centers around Light 's attempt to create and rule a world `` cleansed of evil '' as `` God ''  using the कोपी , और the प्रयत्न of a जासूस  known as L to stop him .
Death Note was first serialized  in 108 अध्याय by shueisha in the जापानी manga  magazine Weekly Shōnen Jump from December 2003 to May 2006 .
The  श्रेणी थी भी प्रकाशित in tankōbon स्वरूप in जापानी starting  in May 2004 and ending in October 2006 with a total of thirteen volumes .
The anime series aired  in जापानी इससे अक्तूबर 3 , 2006  , to June 26 , 2007 .
Composed of 37 episodes , the anime was  विकसित by madhouse और निर्देशित  by Tetsuro Araki .
A light novel based on  the श्रेणी , लिखा by nisio  Isin , was released in Japan .
Additionally ,  विभिन्न वीडियो खेल have महरूम  published by Konami for Nintendo DS .
The  श्रेणी थी adapted into live-action films  released in Japan on June 17 , 2006 , November 3 , 2006 , and February 2 , 2008 .
Viz Media licensed the Death Note manga in North America and has published all the twelve volumes from the series , a 13th  आवाज़ जिससे serves as a `` रीडर 's मार्गदर्शिका '' , as खूब  as the light novels .
The episodes from the  दुश्मनी पहला appeared in  North America as downloadable by IGN .
Viz later  licensed the दुश्मनी श्रेणी और it aired  on Bionix in Canada and on Cartoon Network in the United States .
The live-action films briefly played  in निश्चित उत्तर अमरीकी  theaters since 2008 .
however , none of the वीडियो खेल have यूँ दूर  been published in North America or Europe .
Death  नोट is एक of साप्ताहिक shōnen jumps best-selling  manga series of all time , with sales over 26.5 million copies .
Halloween or  hallowe'en ( a संकुचन of `` सब hallows ' संध्या `` ) , भी ज्ञात as सब hallows ' संध्या , is a वार्षिक जश्न observed  in a number of countries on October 31 , the eve of the Western Christian feast of All Hallows ( or All Saints ) and the day initiating the triduum of Hallowmas .
According to many scholars , All Hallows ' Eve is a Christianised feast originally influenced by western European  कटाई त्यौहार , और त्यौहार of the मुर्दे साथ संभावित pagan जड़ें , विशेषकर the सेल्टिक samhain  .
Other scholars maintain that it originated independently of  samhain और रै solely ईसाई जड़ें  .
Typical festive Halloween activities include trick-or-treating ( also known as `` guising `` ) ,  उपस्थित वेशभूषा पार्टियों , नक्काशी pumpkins into jack-o'-lanterns , lighting bonfires , ठहराना bobbing , visiting haunted आकर्षण ,  playing pranks , telling scary stories , and watching horror films .
New York City taxicabs during  midtown फटाफट घंटा  in Manhattan
The taxicabs of New York City , with  उनके distinctive पीला पेंट , हैं a widely पहचाना  icon of the city .
Taxicabs are operated by  निजी कंपनियाँ और licensed by the  New York City Taxi and Limousine Commission ( TLC ) .
it भी oversees over 40,000 अन्य for-hire वाहनों  , including `` black cars '' , commuter vans and ambulettes .
`` Medallion taxis , '' the familiar yellow cabs , are the only vehicles  in the नगर permitted to चुनें up यात्री in जवाब  to a street hail .
Schematic cross section of part of  पत्ता , जाइलम दिखाया as रेड वृत्त at  figure 8 .
जाइलम is एक of the दो प्रकार of हस्तांतरण ऊतक  in vascular plants ( phloem is the other ) .
The word xylem  is निकला इससे the यूनानी  word ξύλον ( xylon ) , meaning `` wood '' ; the best-known xylem tissue is wood , though it is found throughout the plant .
Its basic function is to transport  जल , लकिन it भी transports कुछ  nutrients through the plant .
U.S. women  suffragists demonstrating  for the right to vote , February 1913 .
Women 's suffrage also known  as स्त्री suffrage is the सही of  women to vote and to run for office .
Limited  मतदान अधिकारों यहूद gained by महिलाओं  in Sweden , Finland and some western U.S. states in the late 19th century .
International organizations were formed to coordinate efforts , especially the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय परिषद of महिलाओं ( 1888 )  and the International Woman Suffrage Alliance ( 1904 ) .
In 1893 , New Zealand , then a self-governing British colony , granted adult women the right to vote and the self-governing British colony of South  ऑस्ट्रेलिया किया the वही in 1895 , लकिन भी permitted महिलाओं to चलाएं लिये  office .
Australia federated in 1901 , and  महिलाओं acquired the सही to vote और स्टैंड in संघीय चुनावों इससे 1902 , हालांकि  uneven restrictions on Aboriginal women voting in national elections were not completely removed until 1962 .
The first European country to introduce women 's suffrage was the Grand Duchy of  फिनलैंड , तब भाग of the रूसी साम्राज्य , जिससे भी उत्पादित the संसार 's पहला मादा सदस्यों of पार्लियामेंट  in the 1907 parliamentary elections .
Norway followed , granting  पूरा महिलाओं 's suffrage  in 1913 .
In most Western countries , women 's suffrage came after World I War I I , with some important late adopters being France in  1944 और स्विट्ज़रलैंड in  1971 .
Women 's suffrage has generally been recognized after political  अभियान to obtain it यहूद waged  .
In  अनेक देशों  it was granted before universal suffrage .
Women 's suffrage is explicitly stated as a right under the Convention on the Elimination of  सब फ़ॉर्म of पक्षपात विरूद्ध महिलाओं , अपनाया by the संयुक्त राष्ट्र in 1979 .
The  तेरहवीं टेल ( 2006 ) by डायने setterfield  is a gothic suspense novel , the author 's first published book .
Jehovah 's Witnesses is a millenarian restorationist Christian denomination with nontrinitarian beliefs distinct from mainstream Christianity .Sources for descriptors : • Millenarian : •  restorationist : • ईसाई : • denomination : the संगठन रिपोर्ट्स विश्वव्यापी सदस्यता of over 7.78 लाख adherents शामिल in इंजीलवाद  , convention attendance of over 12 million , and annual Memorial attendance of over 19 million .
They are directed by the Governing Body of Jehovah 's  गवाह , a समूह of बड़ो in ब्रुकलीन , नई  York , that establishes all doctrines .
Jehovah 's  गवाह ' मान्यताओं हैं आधारित on उनके interpretations of the बाइबल  and they prefer to use their own translation , the New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures .
They believe that the destruction of the present world system at  armageddon is निकट , और कि the स्थापना of परमेश्वर 's किंगडम on धरती is the तभी  solution for all problems faced by mankind .
The group emerged from the Bible Student movement —founded in the late 1870s by  चार्ल्स taze रसेल साथ the  formation of Zion 's Watch Tower Tract Society —with significant organizational and doctrinal changes under the leadership of Joseph Franklin Rutherford .
The name Jehovah 's witnesses , based on Isaiah 43:10–12 , was adopted in 1931 to distinguish  themselves इससे अन्य बाइबल छात्र समूह और symbolize a ब्रेक साथ the विरासत of रसेल  's traditions .
Jehovah  's गवाह हैं बेहतरीन ज्ञात लिये  their door-to-door preaching , distributing literature such as The Watchtower and Awake !
, and refusing military service  और रक्त transfusions  .
वे consider उपयोग of  the name Jehovah vital for proper worship .
They reject Trinitarianism , inherent immortality of the soul , and hellfire , which they consider to be  unscriptural doctrines  .
They do not observe Christmas ,  ईस्टर , जन्मदिन , or अन्य छुट्टियाँ और कस्टम वे consider to have  pagan origins incompatible with Christianity .
Adherents commonly refer to their body of  मान्यताओं as `` the सच्चाई '' और consider  themselves to be `` in the truth '' .
They consider secular society  to be morally  corrupt and under the influence of Satan , and most limit their social interaction with non-Witnesses .
Congregational  अनुशासनात्मक क्रियाएँ शामिल  disfellowshipping , their term for formal expulsion and shunning .
Baptized individuals who  formally छोड़ हैं माना  disassociated and are also shunned .
Disfellowshipped and  disassociated individuals may आखिरकार be reinstated if  deemed repentant .
The religion 's position  regarding ईमानदार आपत्ति to सैन्य  service and refusal to salute national flags has brought it into conflict with some governments .
Consequently , Jehovah  's गवाह have महरूम persecuted  and their activities are banned or restricted in some countries .
Persistent legal challenges by Jehovah 's  गवाह have बहकावे विधान सम्बन्धित to सिविल  rights in several countries .
Last Tango in Paris ( ) is a 1972 Franco-Italian  रोमांटिक नाटक फिल्मी निर्देशित by बर्नार्डो bertolucci जिससे portrays a हाल अमरीकी विधुर  who begins an anonymous sexual relationship with a young , betrothed Parisian woman .
It stars Marlon Brando , Maria Schneider  , और jean-pierre  Léaud .
The film 's raw portrayal of sexual violence and emotional turmoil led to international  विवाद और खींचा विभिन्न स्तर of सरकारी  censorship .
The  mpaa दिया the फिल्मी an x दरजा  upon release in the United States .
After revisions were made to  the mpaa दरजा कोड  , it was classified as an NC-17 in 1997 .
MGM  released a censored r-rated  cut in 1981 .
The  फिल्मी रै इसके nc-17 दरजा लिये  `` some explicit sexual content . ''
Windows XP is an operating system produced by Microsoft for use on personal  कंप्यूटर , सहित घर और कारोबार desktops , लैपटॉप  and media centers .
First released to computer manufacturers on August 24 , 2001 , it is the second  सबसे लोकप्रिय संस्करण of खिड़कियाँ , आधारित on संस्थापित  user base .
The name `` XP '' is  छोटी लिये `` अनुभव '' , highlighting  the enhanced user experience .
Windows XP  , the successor to खिड़कियाँ  2000 and Windows ME , was the first consumer-oriented operating system produced by Microsoft to be built on the Windows NT kernel .
Windows XP was released worldwide for retail sale on October 25 , 2001 , and over  400 लाख नक़ल यहूद in उपयोग in जनवरी  2006 .
It was succeeded by Windows Vista  in जनवरी 2007  .
Direct OEM and retail sales of  खिड़कियाँ xp ceased on जून 30 , 2008  .
Microsoft continued to sell Windows XP through their System Builders ( smaller OEMs who sell assembled  कंप्यूटर ) कार्यक्रम जबतक जनवरी 31 , 2009  .
On April 10 , 2012 , Microsoft reaffirmed that extended support for Windows XP and Office 2003 would end on April 8 , 2014  और सुझाया कि प्रशासकों शुरू तैयारी  to migrate to a newer OS .
The NT -based versions of Windows , which are programmed in C ,  C++ , और सभा , हैं ज्ञात  for their improved stability and efficiency over the 9x versions of Microsoft Windows .
Windows XP presented a significantly redesigned graphical user interface  , a बदलें microsoft प्रचारित as अधिक user-friendly  than previous versions of Windows .
In an attempt to further ameliorate the `` DLL hell `` that plagued the past versions of Windows , improved side-by-side assembly technology in  खिड़कियाँ xp allows side-by-side संस्थापना , पंजीकरण और सर्विसिंग of अनेक संस्करण of globally  shared software components in full isolation .
It is also the first version of Windows to  उपयोग उत्पाद सक्रियण to कॉम्बैट  illegal copying .
दौरान खिड़कियाँ xp 's विकास  , the project was codenamed `` Whistler '' , after Whistler , British Columbia , as many Microsoft employees skied at the Whistler-Blackcomb ski resort .
according to वेब analytics आंकड़ा उत्पन्न by  Net Applications , Windows XP was the most widely used operating system until August 2012 , when Windows 7 overtook it .
, Windows XP market share is at 38.99 % ,  having decreased लगभग प्रत्येक माह चूंकि at तनिक नवम्बर 2007 , the पहला माह लिये  which statistics are publicly available from Net Applications .
`` Por una Cabeza '' is an Argentine tango with music and lyrics written  in 1935 by कार्लोस gardel और अल्फ्रेडो le प्रभा क्रमशः  .
The name is a Spanish horse-racing phrase meaning `` by a head '' , which refers to a horse  जीतना a रेस by the लंबाई of एक  head .
The lyrics speak of a compulsive horse-track gambler who compares his addiction  लिये घोड़े साथ उसके आकर्षण  to women .
Alfredo Le Pera was a Brazilian from São Paulo , a much Italian-influenced area in  ब्राज़ील , और भी the जन्मस्थान of zequinha de abreu , composer  of Tico-Tico no Fubá .
Le Pera and Gardel died in an airplane crash  in medellín , ( कोलंबिया ) , on  June 24 , 1935 .
Por  ऊना cabeza
The tango has since been  performed by numerous टैंगो orchestras .
Tango scenes with `` Por una Cabeza '' appear in Delicatessen ( 1991 ) , Scent of a Woman ( 1992 ) , Schindler 's List ( 1993 ) , True Lies ( 1994 ) , Titanic ( 1996 ) , Bad Santa ( Uncut  संस्करण , 2003 ) , सब the किंग 's मेन ( 2006 ) , ग्रह 51 ( 2009 ) , एपीसोड 37 of nip/tuck ( 2003–2010 ) , एपीसोड 9 of दक्षिण कोरियाई नाटक श्रेणी मीठी जासूस ( 2005–08 ) , the शुरूआत और समाप्ति क्रेडिट of the दक्षिण कोरियाई नाटक ब्रॉडकास्ट i 'm sorry , i प्रेम  You ( 2004 ) , and the episode `` Down the Rabbit Hole `` ( 2007 ) .
In the movie Frida ( Salma  हायेक , 2002 ) , gardel is सुना  singing it on a radio .
It is also quoted in David Del  tredici 's `` शुभ न्यूज  !
Nilda is Back '' ( from the  सोंग साईकिल miz inez  Sez ) .
In Scent of a Woman ( 1992 ) , the  टैंगो is performed by the `` the टैंगो प्रोजेक्ट '' , जो दरअसल  appear in the dancing scene starring Al Pacino ( the recording used is available on one of their CD albums ) .
John Williams arranged a version of the piece that appears on the album  `` सिनेमा serenade '' साथ the सारंगी सोलो performed by  Itzhak Perlman .
Perlman and Williams  (  conducting ) have also performed the piece together in live concerts .
In 2012 a dance version was released  by the समूह `` da करेरा '' featuring the असली  vocal recording by Carlos Gardel .
The baroreflex or baroreceptor reflex is one  of the देह 's homeostatic mechanisms  for maintaining blood pressure .
It provides a negative  प्रतिक्रिया लूप in जिससे an elevated रक्त दबाव reflexively कल्याणकारी दिल रेट to घटी इसलिए causing रक्त  pressure to decrease ; likewise , decreased blood pressure activates the baroreflex , causing heart rate to increase thus causing an increase in blood pressure .
The  प्रणाली relies on specialized न्यूरॉन्स , ज्ञात as baroreceptors , in the aortic मेहराब  , carotid sinuses , and elsewhere to monitor changes in blood pressure and relay them to the brainstem .
Subsequent changes in blood  दबाव हैं mediated by the  autonomic nervous system .
Atrial natriuretic  पेप्टाइड फ़ॉर्म a समानांतर ऋणात्मक प्रतिक्रिया  loop in an endocrinological contrast to the renin-angiotensin system .
The Loma Prieta earthquake , also known as the Quake of '89 and the World Series Earthquake ,  थी a प्रमुख भूकंप कि struck the सैन फ्रांसिस्को खाड़ी क्षेत्रफल of कैलिफ़ोर्निया on  October 17 , 1989 , at 5:04 pm local time .
Caused by a slip along the San Andreas Fault ,  the भूकंप lasted 10–15 सेकेंड और measured 6.9 on दोनो the  moment magnitude scale ( surface-wave magnitude 7.1 ) and on the open-ended Richter Scale .
The  भूकंप मारे 63 लोगों throughout उत्तरी कैलिफ़ोर्निया , घायल  3,757 and left some 3,000–12,000 people homeless .
The earthquake occurred during the warm-up practice for the third  खेल of the 1989 संसार श्रेणी , featuring दोनो of the खाड़ी क्षेत्रफल 's प्रमुख लीग बेसबॉल टीमों , the ओकलैंड  Athletics and the San Francisco Giants .
Because of game-related sports coverage , this was the first major earthquake in the United States to have  इसके आरंभिक धक्का ब्रॉडकास्ट सजीव on टेलीविज़न .
Pawn in the  मानक staunton पैटर्न
The pawn ( ♙♟ ) is the most numerous and in most circumstances the weakest piece in the game of chess ,  historically representing infantry or , अधिक विशेषकर , हथियारबंद peasants or pikemen  .
In chess , each player begins the  खेल साथ आठ प्यादे , एक  on each square of the rank immediately in front of the other pieces .
( In algebraic  संकेतन , the  white pawns start on a2 , b2 , c2 , ... , h2 , while black pawns start on a7 , b7 , c7 , ... , h7 . )
व्यक्तिगत प्यादे हैं referred to by the  file on which they stand .
For example , one speaks of `` White 's f-pawn '' or `` Black 's b-pawn '' , or less  commonly ( using वर्णनात्मक संकेतन ) , `` श्वेत 's किंग 's बिशप साहूकार '' or `` ब्लैक 's महारानी 's  knight pawn '' .
It is also  आम to refer to a rook साहूकार , अर्थ कोई साहूकार on the a- or h-file , a नाईट साहूकार (  on the b- or g-file ) , a bishop pawn ( on the c- or f-file ) , a queen pawn ( on the d-file ) , a king pawn ( on the e-file ) , and a central pawn ( on either the d- or e-file ) .
The military forces of the world have differing approaches to the enlistment of  homosexual ( gay और लेस्बियन ) और द्विलिंगी individuals  .
The armed forces of most  विकसित देशों have अभी removed नीतियों excluding non-heterosexual  individuals ( with strict policies on sexual harassment ) .
Nations that permit gay people to serve openly in the military include the 4 of the 5 members of the UN Security Council ( United States ,  संयुक्त किंगडम , फ़्रांस , और रूस ) , the गणतंत्र of चीन ( ताईवान ) , ऑस्ट्रेलिया  , Israel , South Africa , Argentina , and all NATO members excluding Turkey .
Hydrogen  उत्पादन is the परिवार of औद्योगिक  methods for generating hydrogen .
Currently the dominant technology for direct  उत्पादन is भाप reforming इससे hydrocarbons  .
Many other methods are known including  electrolysis और thermolysis  .
In 2006 , the United States  थी अनुमानित to have a उत्पादन क्षमता  of 11 million tonnes of hydrogen .
5 million tonnes of hydrogen were consumed on-site in oil refining , and in the production of ammonia ( Haber process ) and  methanol  ( reduction of carbon monoxide ) .
0.4 million tonnes were an incidental by-product of the  chlor-alkali प्रक्रम  .
हाइड्रोजन उत्पादन  is an estimated $ 100 billion industry .
A basis point ( often denoted as bp ,  colloquially referred to in the बहुवचन as `` bips ''  , also known as a `` beep '' ) is a unit equal to one hundredth of a percentage point , or one part per ten thousand , 1/10000 .
The same unit is also ( rarely )  पुकारा a permyriad , वस्तुतः अर्थ 'for ( प्रत्येक ) असंख्य ( टेन हजार ) ' , और in कि कॉन्टेक्स्ट is लिखा  with which looks like a percent sign ( % ) with two extra zeroes at the end ( like a stylized form of the four zeros in the denominator , although it originates as a natural extension of the percent ( % ) and permille ( ‰ ) signs ) .
A basis  पाइंट is पारिभाषित  as:
1  आधार पाइंट  = 1 permyriad = one one-hundredth percent
1 bp = 1 = 0.01 %  = 0.1‰ = 10−4  = = 0.0001
1 % = 100  bp = 100
Basis points are used as a convenient unit of measurement  in contexts जहाँ प्रतिशत मतभेद  of less than 1 % are discussed .
The most common example is interest rates , where differences in interest rates of  कम than 1 % प्रति साल हैं प्रायः सार्थक to  talk about .
For example , a difference of 0.10 percentage points is  समतुल्य to a बदलें of 10 आधार अंक ( e.g . a 4.67 % रेट increases  by 10 basis points to 4.77 % ) .
Like percentage points , basis points avoid the ambiguity between relative and  निरपेक्ष चर्चाएँ परिचय ब्याज दरों by dealing  only with the absolute change in numeric value of a rate .
For example , if a report says there has been a `` 1 % increase '' from a 10 % interest rate , this could refer to an increase either from 10 % to 10.1 % ( relative  , 1 % of 10 % ) , or इससे 10 % to 11 % ( निरपेक्ष ,  1 % plus 10 % ) .
If , however , the report says there has been a `` 10 basis point increase ''  इससे a 10 % ब्याज रेट , तब we जान कि the ब्याज रेट of 10 % रै increased  by 0.10 % ( the absolute change ) to a 10.1 % rate .
It is  आम अभ्यास in the वित्तीय उद्योग to उपयोग आधार अंक to denote a रेट  change in a financial instrument , or the difference ( spread ) between two interest rates , including the yields of fixed-income securities .
Since certain loans and bonds may commonly be  कोटेड in संबंध to कुछ अनुक्रमणिका or underlying सुरक्षा  , they will often be quoted as a spread over ( or under ) the index .
For example , a loan that  bears ब्याज of 0.50 % प्रति annum ऊपर  the London Interbank Offered Rate ( LIBOR ) is said to be 50 basis points over LIBOR , which is commonly expressed as `` L+50bps '' or simply `` L+50 '' .
The term `` basis point '' has its origins in trading the `` basis  '' or the स्प्रेड between दो ब्याज  rates .
Since the basis is usually small , these are quoted  multiplied up by 10000 , और hence a `` पूरा पाइंट ''  movement in the `` basis '' is a basis point .
Contrast with pips in  fx आगे बाज़ार  .
The relationship between percentage changes and basis  अंक can be summarized as फ़ॉलो : 1 प्रतिशत पाइंट बदलें = 100  basis points , and 0.01 percentage points = 1 basis point .
So , a bond whose yield increases from 5 % to 5.5 % is said to increase by 50 basis points  ; or ब्याज दरों कि have risen  1 percentage point are said to have increased by 100 basis points .
The British Royal Family is the  समूह of बंद रिश्तेदारों of the monarch of the  United Kingdom .
The term is also commonly applied to the same group of people who are the relations of the monarch in her or his role as sovereign of any of the other Commonwealth realms  , यूँ sometimes at variance साथ आधिकारिक नेशनल शर्तें लिये the परिवार  .
Members of the Royal Family belong to , either by birth or marriage , the House of  विंडसर , चूंकि 1917 , जब जार्ज v बदला the नाम of the  royal house from Saxe-Coburg and Gotha .
This decision was primarily taken because Britain and her Empire were at war with Germany and  दिए the अंग्रेजों royal परिवार 's दमदार जर्मनी ancestry ; it थी लगा कि इसके पब्लिक चित्र  could be improved by choosing a more British house name .
The new name chosen , Windsor , had absolutely no connection other than as the name of the castle which  थी और continues to be a royal निवास  .
Although in the United Kingdom there is no strict  विधिक or औपचारिक परिभाषा of जो is or is नहीं a सदस्य of the royal परिवार , और अलग सूचियाँ होगा शामिल अलग लोगों , those  carrying the style Her or His Majesty ( HM ) , or Her or His Royal Highness ( HRH ) are always considered members , which usually results in the application of the term to the monarch , the consort of the monarch , the widowed consorts of previous monarchs , the children of the monarch and previous monarchs , the male-line grandchildren of the monarch and previous monarchs , and the spouses and the widows of a monarch 's and previous monarch 's sons and male-line grandsons .
On 30 November 1917 , King George V issued Letters Patent defining who are members of the Royal  परिवार ; the टेक्स्ट of the सूचना इससे the लंदन  Gazette is as follows:
In 1996 , Her Majesty The Queen  परिवर्धित ये अक्षर पेटेंट ,  as was evidenced by this Notice from the London Gazette:
In 2013 Letters Patent were issued to extend a title and a style borne by members of the Royal Family to  अतिरिक्त व्यक्तियों to be born , evidenced by इस सूचना इससे  the London Gazette:
Members and relatives of the  अंग्रेजों royal परिवार historically represented the monarch in विभिन्न स्थान  throughout the British Empire , sometimes for extended periods as viceroys , or for specific ceremonies or events .
Today , they often perform ceremonial and social duties throughout  the संयुक्त किंगडम और विदेश on निमित्त of the  United Kingdom .
Aside from the monarch , their only constitutional role in the affairs of government is to serve , if eligible and when appointed by letters patent , as a Counsellor of State , two  or अधिक of जिसको कसरत the प्राधिकार of the क्राउन ( भीतर stipulated  limits ) in the indisposal or absence from the British realm of the monarch .
In the  अन्य realms of the राष्ट्रमंडल  royalty do not serve as Counsellors of State .
However in each such realm the monarch 's  परिवार सदस्यों may अधिनियम on निमित्त of , हैं वित्तपोषित by , और represent  the sovereign of that particular state , and not the United Kingdom .
The Queen , her consort  , उसके children और grandchildren , as खूब as सब पूर्व अधिपति ' children और grandchildren  hold places in the first sections of the official orders of precedence in England and Wales , Scotland , and Northern Ireland .
Wives of the said enjoy their husbands '  पूर्वता , और पतियों of राजकुमारियों हैं unofficially  but habitually placed with their wives as well .
However , the Queen changed the private order of precedence in the Royal Family in favour of Princesses Anne and Alexandra , who henceforth take private precedence over the  duchess of कॉर्नवॉल , जो is वरना the फ्रेम 's उच्चतम रैंकिंग स्त्री बाद  the Queen herself .
She did not alter the relative precedence of  अन्य born-princesses , ऐसे as the बेटियां  of her younger sons .
Haiti ( ; Haitian Creole Ayiti ) ,  officially the गणतंत्र of हैती ( ; ) , is a caribbean  country .
It occupies the western , smaller portion of the island of Hispaniola , in the Greater  antillean द्वीपसमूह , जिससे it साझा  with the Dominican Republic .
Ayiti (  जमीन of ऊँची kyu  ) was the indigenous Taíno or Amerindian name for the island .
The  देश 's उच्चतम  point is Pic la Selle , at .
The  कुल क्षेत्रफल of हैती is  and its capital is Port-au-Prince .
Haitian Creole and  फ्रेंच हैं the आधिकारिक  languages .
हैती 's क्षेत्रीय  , historical , and ethno-linguistic position is unique for several reasons .
It was the first independent nation of Latin America and the Caribbean , the first black -led republic in the world , and the second republic in the Americas when it gained independence in 1804 as  भाग of a कामयाब स्लेव क्रान्ति स्थायी nearly a दशक  .
in 2012 , हैती घोषित इसके इरादे to  seek associate membership status in the African Union .
Haiti is the most populous of the predominantly  francophone स्वतंत्र राष्ट्र  in the Americas .
It is one of only two independent nations in the Americas ( along with Canada ) to designate French as an official  भाषा ; the अन्य french-speaking क्षेत्रों हैं सब  overseas départements , or collectivités , of France .
Haiti is the most populous full  member-state of  the Caribbean Community ( CARICOM ) .
It is  the poorest देश in the americas as  measured by the Human Development Index .
Political violence has occurred  regularly throughout इसके इतिहास  , leading to government instability .
Most recently , in February 2004 , a  तख्तापलट d'état originating in  the north of the country forced the resignation and exile of President Jean-Bertrand Aristide .
A provisional government  took कंट्रोल साथ सुरक्षा provided  by the United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti ( MINUSTAH ) .
Michel Martelly , the current  अध्यक्ष , थी निर्वाचित  in the Haitian general election , 2011 .
The island has had a  इतिहास of destructive  earthquakes .
A 7.0  परिमाण भूकंप struck  Haiti on 12 January 2010 and devastated Port-au-Prince .
The highest  विश्वसनीय मौत गिनती थी  estimated at 220,000 .
Haitian  सरकारी estimates  were higher .
The Presidential palace ,  पार्लियामेंट और अनेक अन्य महत्वपूर्ण structures यहूद नष्ट , साथ साथ  countless homes and businesses , leaving hundreds of thousands of people homeless .
The country has yet to recover from the  2010 भूकंप ( और subsequent incidents ) due to दोनो the गंभीरता of  the damage Haiti endured in 2010 , as well as a government that was ineffective well before the earthquake .
United States aid  संगठन have दान  $ 2 billion .
Combined with other international donations , these funds are intended  to योगदान to the पुनर्निर्माण of the  country .
The Bloody Beetroots is the pseudonym of Sir Bob Cornelius Rifo , the  इतालवी इलेक्ट्रो हाउस और dance-punk म्यूज़िक  producer , DJ and photographer .
the खूनी beetroots is well-known लिये  the black Venom mask he wears during performances .
In fact , the only identifying public feature of Rifo is the year `` 1977 '' tattooed across his chest ,  जिससे is दोनो the साल कि the निर्माता और punk-rock  was born .
`` The Bloody Beetroots DJ set ''  contains सर bob कॉर्नेलियस  Rifo and Tommy Tea .
A Motorola  सलाहकार alphanumeric पेजर प्रयुक्त  in Brazil in the 1990s , operated by Teletrim
A pager is a wireless telecommunications device that receives and  प्रदर्शक न्यूमेरिक or टेक्स्ट संदेश , or receives  and announces voice messages .
One-way pagers can only receive messages , while  जवाब pagers और two-way pagers can भी acknowledge , जवाब  to , and originate messages using an internal transmitter .
Pagers operate as part of a paging  प्रणाली जिससे शामिल एक or अधिक फिक्स्ड ट्रांसमीटरों ( or in the मामला of जवाब pagers और  two-way pagers , one or more base stations ) , as well as a number of pagers carried by mobile users .
These systems can range from a  रेस्तरां प्रणाली साथ a सिंगल low-power ट्रांसमीटर , to a देशभर प्रणाली साथ हज़ारों  of high-power base stations .
एक of the पहला व्यावहारिक paging सेवाएं  was launched in 1950 for physicians in the New York City area .
Physicians paid US $ 12 per month for the service and carried a ( 6 oz ) pager  कि होता प्राप्त फोन संदेश भीतर ( 25 mi ) of  a single transmitter tower .
The system was manufactured by  the reevesound कम्पनी  and operated by Telanswerphone .
In 1960 , John Francis Mitchell combined elements of  मोटोरोला 's walkie talkie और ऑटोमोबाइल रेडियो technologies to बनाएँ the पहला transistorized पेजर  , and from this point , paging technology continued to advance , and pager adoption continued to expand , until the early 1990s .
However , by the mid-1990s , as cellular technologies became cheaper and more widely  उपलब्धियाँ , उन्नत सेवाएं began to displace paging as a वाणिज्यिक  product .
Today , pagers exist largely as niche products , finding preferential use in applications such as hospitals , public safety  , और खुदरा स्थितियाँ जहाँ उनके सादगी , ऊँची विश्वसनीयता  , and low cost represent significant advantages .
Reevesville is a town  in dorchester काउंटी , दक्षिण कैरोलिना  , United States .
The population was 196  at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी  .
As defined by the U.S. Office of Management and Budget , and used by the U.S. Census Bureau for statistical purposes  तभी , reevesville is शामिल भीतर the charleston-north charleston-summerville  metropolitan area .
Frida Kahlo de Rivera (  born magdalena कार्मेन frieda kahlo y calderón ; जुलाई 6 , 1907 – जुलाई 13 , 1954 ) थी a मैक्सिकन चित्रकार  , born in Coyoacán , who is best known for her self-portraits .
kahlo 's जीवन began और ended in  Mexico City , in her home known as the Blue House .
She gave her birth  तिथि as जुलाई 7 , 1910  , but her birth certificate shows July 6 , 1907 .
Kahlo had allegedly wanted the year of her birth to coincide with the  साल of the शुरूआत of the मैक्सिकन क्रान्ति  so that her life would begin with the birth of modern Mexico .
Her work has been celebrated in Mexico as emblematic of national  और स्वदेशी परंपरा , और by  feminists for its uncompromising depiction of the female experience and form .
मैक्सिकन संस्कृति और amerindian सांस्कृतिक परंपरा हैं महत्वपूर्ण  in her work , which has been sometimes characterized as Naïve art or folk art .
Her work has also been described as `` surrealist '' , and in 1938 André Breton , principal  initiator of the surrealist गति  , described Kahlo 's art as a `` ribbon around a bomb '' .
Kahlo had a volatile  विवाह साथ the प्रसिद्ध मैक्सिकन कलाकार डिएगो  Rivera .
She  suffered lifelong स्वास्थ्य  problems .
Many of her  स्वास्थ्य समस्याएं यहूद the परिणाम  of a traffic accident she survived as a teenager .
Recovering from her injuries isolated her from other people and this  अलगाव बहकावे उसके works  , many of which are self-portraits of one sort or another .
Kahlo suggested , `` I paint myself because I am so often alone and because I  am the विषय i जान बेहतरीन .  ''
She also stated , `` I was  born a कुतिया .
i थी born  a painter . ''
300px
theresienwiese on the  day before Oktoberfest 2006
Oktoberfest is a 16-day festival celebrating beer  आयोजित annually in म्यूनिख , बायर्न , जर्मनी , कार्यशील इससे लेट  September to the first weekend in October .
It is one of the most famous events in Germany and  is the संसार 's largest मेला , साथ अधिक than 6 लाख  people from around the world attending the event every year .
To the locals , it is not  पुकारा oktoberfest  , but `` die Wiesn '' , after the colloquial name of the fairgrounds themselves .
The Oktoberfest is an important part of Bavarian culture  , having महरूम आयोजित  since 1810 .
Other cities across the world also hold  oktoberfest जश्न , modeled बाद the  original Munich event .
The Munich Oktoberfest originally  took प्लेस दौरान the सोलह  days up to , and including , the first Sunday in October .
In 1994 , the schedule was  परिवर्धित in जवाब to जर्मनी reunification so कि if the पहला संडे in अक्तूबर  falls on the 1st or 2nd , then the festival would go on until October 3 ( German Unity Day ) .
Thus , the festival is now 17 days when the  पहला संडे is अक्तूबर  2 and 18 days when it is October 1 .
In 2010 , the festival lasted until the  पहला सोमवार in अक्तूबर  , to mark the anniversary of the event .
The festival is held in an area named the  theresienwiese ( फ़ील्ड , or मर्ग , of therese ) , प्रायः  called Wiesn for short , located near Munich 's center .
Large quantities of Oktoberfest Beer are consumed , with almost 7  लाख liters परोसा दौरान the 16 दिन पर्व  in 2007 .
Visitors may also enjoy a wide variety of traditional food such as Hendl ( chicken ) , Schweinebraten ( roast pork ) , Schweinshaxe ( grilled ham hock ) , Steckerlfisch ( grilled fish on a stick ) , Würstl ( sausages ) along with Brezeln ( Pretzel ) , Knödel ( potato or  ब्रैड पकौड़ी ) , käsespätzle ( चीज नूडल्स ) , reiberdatschi ( आलू pancakes ) , sauerkraut or rotkohl/blaukraut ( रेड गोभी ) साथ साथ ऐसे bar delicacies as obatzda ( a spiced cheese-butter स्प्रेड ) और weisswurst ( a श्वेत सॉसेज  ) .
A platter  साथ चीज और  garnishes
पहियों of  Gouda
चीज is a जेनेरिक पद लिये a विविध  group of milk-based food products .
Cheese is produced in  wide-ranging जायका , बनावट  , and forms .
Cheese consists of proteins and fat  इससे मिल्क , प्रायः the मिल्क of गायों , भैंस  , goats , or sheep .
it is उत्पादित by जामन  of the milk protein casein .
Typically , the milk is acidified  और जोड of the एंजाइम  rennet causes coagulation .
The solids are separated  और दबाया into फाइनल  form .
Some cheeses have molds  on the rind or  throughout .
Most cheeses melt  at कुकिंग तापमान  .
Hundreds  of प्रकार of चीज इससे  various countries are produced .
Their styles , textures and flavors depend on the origin of the milk ( including the animal 's  आहार ) , whether वे have महरूम pasteurized , the butterfat सामग्री  , the bacteria and mold , the processing , and aging .
Herbs  , मसाले  , or wood smoke may be used as flavoring agents .
The yellow to red  रंग of अनेक cheeses , ऐसे as रेड लीसेस्टर , is सामान्यतः formed  from adding annatto .
For a few cheeses  , the मिल्क is curdled by adding  acids such as vinegar or lemon juice .
Most cheeses are acidified to a lesser degree by bacteria , which turn milk sugars into lactic acid , then the  जोड of rennet completes the curdling  .
Vegetarian alternatives to rennet are available ; most are  उत्पादित by fermentation of the  fungus Mucor miehei , but others have been extracted from various species of the Cynara thistle family .
Cheese  is valued लिये इसके पोर्टेबिलिटी  , long life , and high content of fat , protein , calcium , and phosphorus .
चीज  is more compact and has a longer shelf life than milk , although how long a cheese will keep may depend on the type of cheese ; labels on packets of cheese often claim that a cheese should be consumed within three to five days of opening .
Generally speaking , hard  cheeses पिछला longer than नरम cheeses , ऐसे as brie  or goat 's milk cheese .
Cheesemakers near a dairy region may benefit from fresher ,  lower-priced मिल्क , और निम्नतर शिपिंग  costs .
The long storage  जीवन of कुछ चीज , विशेषकर if it  is encased in a protective rind , allows selling when markets are favorable .
अतिरिक्त संघटक may be added  to some cheeses , such as black peppers , garlic , chives or cranberries .
A specialist seller of cheese is  sometimes ज्ञात as a  cheesemonger .
To become an expert in this field , like wine or cooking , requires  कुछ औपचारिक शिक्षा और सालो of चख  and hands-on experience .
This position is typically responsible for all aspects of the  चीज inventory ; selecting the चीज मेनू  , purchasing , receiving , storage , and ripening .
Legal citation signals are a set of brief abbreviated  वाक्यांश or शब्द प्रयुक्त to clarify the प्राधिकार or significance  of a legal citation as it relates to a proposition .
Signals help a reader quickly discern meaning or usefulness of a particular  सन्दर्भ जब the सन्दर्भ itself करता नहीं provide पर्याप्त  information .
सबसे citation सिग्नल हैं लगाई  in front of the citation to which they apply .
For  उदाहरण , in  the paragraph When writing a legal argument , it is important to refer to primary sources .
To assist  पाठक in locating ये  sources , it is desirable to use a standardized citation format .
See  generally हार्वर्ड विधि पुनर्विलोकन संघ  , The Bluebook : A Uniform System of Citation ( 18th ed . 2005 ) .
नोट , however , कि कुछ न्यायालयों  may require any legal papers that are submitted to them to conform to a different citation format .
the signal is the phrase `` see generally , '' which indicates that the citation `` The Bluebook : A Uniform System of Citation ( 18th ed . 2005 ) '' provides general  पृष्ठभूमि सूचना  on the topic .
Neil Alden Armstrong ( August 5 , 1930 –  अगस्त 25 , 2012 ) थी an अमरीकी astronaut और  the first person to walk on the Moon .
He was also an  aerospace इंजीनियर  , naval aviator , test pilot , and university professor .
पहले बनने an astronaut , आर्मस्ट्रांग थी  an officer in the U.S. Navy and served in the Korean War .
After the war , he earned his bachelor 's degree at Purdue University and served as a test pilot at the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics  high-speed उड़ान स्टेशन , अभी ज्ञात as the ड्राइडेन उड़ान शोध बीच , जहाँ he logged over 900 फ़्लाइट  .
he बाद समाप्त ग्रैजुएट  studies at the University of Southern California .
A participant in the U.S. Air Force 's Man in Space Soonest and X-20 Dyna-Soar human spaceflight programs , Armstrong  joined the नासा astronaut corps in 1962  .
he बना उसके पहला स्पेस उड़ान , as कमांड पायलट  of Gemini 8 , in 1966 , becoming NASA 's first civilian astronaut to fly in space .
On this mission , he performed the first docking of two  spacecraft , साथ पायलट दाउद  Scott .
आर्मस्ट्रांग 's दूसरी और पिछला spaceflight थी as मिशन कमांडर of  the Apollo 11 moon landing , in July 1969 .
On this mission , Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin descended to the lunar surface and spent two and a half hours exploring , while  माइकल कॉलिन्स remained in  lunar orbit in the Command Module .
Along with Collins and Aldrin , Armstrong was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom by President Richard Nixon ; in 1978 , President Jimmy Carter presented Armstrong the Congressional Space Medal of Honor  in 1978 ; he और उसके पूर्व crewmates प्राप्त the congressional सुनहरा पदक  in 2009 .
Armstrong died in Cincinnati , Ohio , on August 25 , 2012 , at the age of 82 , after  जटिलताओं इससे कोरोनरी धमनी  bypass surgery .
Secretariat ( March 30 , 1970 – October 4 , 1989 ) was an American Thoroughbred  racehorse कि in 1973 became the पहला u.s . ट्रिपल क्राउन चैंपियन in 25  years .
He set race records in all three events in the Series — the Kentucky  डर्बी ( 1:59.4 ) , the preakness stakes ( 1:53 ) , और the belmont stakes ( 2:24 ) — रिकॉर्ड  that still stand today .
He is considered to be one of the  महानतम thoroughbreds of सब  time .
In 1999 , ESPN ranked Secretariat the 35th best athlete of the  20th सदी , the उच्चतम रैंकिंग racehorse  on the list URL_http .
He ranked  दूसरी पीछे man o ' युद्ध in the blood-horse  's List of the Top 100 U.S. Racehorses of the 20th Century .
सचिवालय थी sired by  Bold Ruler out of Somethingroyal , by Princequillo .
He was foaled at  the मर्ग in कैरोलीन  County , Virginia .
Like his famous predecessor Man o ' War , Secretariat was a large chestnut  टट्टू और थी दिए  the same nickname , `` Big Red . ''
सचिवालय 's grandsire , nasrullah  , is also the great-great-grandsire of 1977 Triple Crown winner Seattle Slew .
Owned by Penny Chenery , he  थी प्रशिक्षित by lucien laurin और मुख्यतः ridden by कनाडाई jockey रॉन  Turcotte , along with apprentice jockey Paul Feliciano ( first two races ) , and veteran Eddie Maple ( last race ) .
He raced  in chenery 's मर्ग stable 's ब्लू और  white checkered colors and his groom was Eddie Sweat .
Secretariat stood  लगभग  tall , and weighed , with a 75-inch girth , in his racing prime .
Madrid ( , ) is the capital  और largest नगर  of Spain .
The population of the city is roughly 3.3 million and the entire population of the Madrid metropolitan area is  गणना to be around 6.5 लाख .
It is  the third-largest नगर in the यूरोपीय  Union , after London and Berlin , and its metropolitan area is the third-largest in the European Union after London and Paris .
The city spans  a कुल of  .
The city is located on the Manzanares river in the centre of both the country and the Community of Madrid ( which comprises the city of  मैड्रिड , इसके conurbation और विस्तारित उपनगरों और  villages ) ; this community is bordered by the autonomous communities of Castile and León and Castile-La Mancha .
As the capital city of Spain , seat of government , and residence of the Spanish  monarch , मैड्रिड is भी the राजनैतिक , आर्थिक और सांस्कृतिक  centre of Spain .
the वर्तमान महापौर is ana botella  from the People 's Party ( PP ) .
The Madrid urban agglomeration has the third-largest GDP  in the यूरोपीय संघ और इसके प्रभाव in राजनीती , शिक्षा  , entertainment , environment , media , fashion , science , culture , and the arts all contribute to its status as one of the world 's major global cities .
Due to its economic output , high standard  of जीना , और मार्केट आकार , मैड्रिड is माना the प्रमुख  financial centre of Southern Europe and the Iberian Peninsula ; it hosts the head offices of the vast majority of the major Spanish companies , such as Telefónica , Iberia or Repsol .
Madrid is the most  touristic नगर of स्पेन , the fourth-most touristic of  the continent , and the seventh most visited city in the world according to Forbes .
Is the 10th most livable city in the world  according to monocle पत्रिका , in इसके  2010 index .
Madrid also ranks among the 12 greenest European cities in 2010. < ref name= '' http :  //www.citymayors.com/environment/greenest-cities-europe.html '' > मैड्रिड is फिलहाल  a Candidate City for the 2020 Summer Olympics .
Madrid houses the headquarters of the World Tourism Organization ( WTO ) , belonging to the  संयुक्त राष्ट्र संगठन ( un ) , the segib , the संगठन  of Ibero-American States ( OEI ) , and the Public Interest Oversight Board ( PIOB ) .
It also hosts major international  संस्थानों regulators of स्पेनी : the खड़ा कमेटी of the संघ of स्पेनी भाषा अकादमियों  , headquarters of the Royal Spanish Academy ( RAE ) , the Cervantes Institute and the Foundation of Urgent Spanish ( Fundéu ) .
मैड्रिड organizes मेलों as fitur , आरको  , SIMO TCI and the Cibeles Madrid Fashion Week .
While Madrid possesses a modern  अवसंरचना , it रै preserved the dekh और महसूस of  many of its historic neighbourhoods and streets .
Its landmarks include the Royal Palace of Madrid ; the Teatro Real ( Royal theatre ) with its restored 1850 Opera House ; the Buen Retiro Park , founded in 1631 ; the 19th-century National  पुस्तकालयों भवन ( संस्थापित in 1712 ) containing कुछ of स्पेन 's ऐतिहासिक अभिलेख ; a विशाल क्रमांक of नेशनल संग्रहालय , और the सुनहरी त्रिभुज of आर्ट , स्तिथ साथ the paseo डेल प्राडो  and comprising three art museums : Prado Museum , the Museo Nacional Centro de Arte Reina Sofía , a museum of modern art , and the Thyssen-Bornemisza Museum , which completes the shortcomings of the other two museums .
cibeles राजमहल और फव्वारा  have become the monument symbol of the city .
The  पाथ of the via appia  and of the Via Appia Traiana .
Remains of the Appian Way in  रोम , निकट quarto miglio
निकट रोम  .
The Appian Way ( Latin and Italian : Via Appia ) was one of  the earliest और रणनीतिक सबसे  important Roman roads of the ancient republic .
It  कनेक्ट रोम to brindisi  , Apulia , in southeast Italy .
Its importance is  indicated by  its common name , recorded by Statius :
Appia teritur regina  longarum viarum
`` the Appian way is the queen of  the long सड़कें ''
The road is named after Appius Claudius Caecus , the Roman censor  जो began और समाप्त the पहला खण्ड as a सैन्य सड़क to  the south in 312 BC during the Samnite Wars .
The Draupner wave , a single giant wave measured on New Year 's Day 1995 ,  आखिरकार पुष्टि the अस्तित्व of freak लहरें , जिससे था previously  been considered near-mythical
Rogue waves ( also known as freak  लहरें , दानव लहरें , कातिल लहरें ,  extreme waves , and abnormal waves ) are relatively large and spontaneous ocean surface waves that occur far out at sea , and are a threat even to large ships and ocean liners .
In oceanography , they are more precisely defined as waves whose height is more than twice the significant wave height ( SWH ) , which is itself  पारिभाषित as the औसत of the largest तीसरा of लहरें in a वेव रिकार्ड  .
Therefore rogue waves are not necessarily the biggest waves found  at समुद्र ; वे हैं , बल्कि , surprisingly विशाल लहरें लिये  a given sea state .
Rogue waves seem  नहीं to have a सिंगल पृथक कारण , लकिन occur जहाँ शारीरिक कारकों ऐसे as  high winds and strong currents cause waves to merge to create a single exceptionally large wave .
electress sophia of हनोवर  ( 1630–1714 )
the लकीर of उत्तराधिकार to the अंग्रेजों सिंहासन is the  ordered sequence of all those people eligible to succeed to the throne of the United Kingdom and the other 15 Commonwealth realms .
The Act of Settlement 1701 bestowed  उत्तराधिकार on the electress sophia of हनोवर और उसके  descendants while excluding Roman Catholics .
The British government does not publish an official list  of सब those in लकीर to सफल , लकिन the कार्य of genealogical  authors and amateur researchers suggests that there are several thousand people potentially in line .
At a summit in Perth , Western Australia in 2011 , the heads of government of all 16 Commonwealth realms agreed to take steps to adopt  निरपेक्ष primogeniture , समाप्त the exclusion of लोगों शादीशुदा to रोमन catholics ,  and make other changes in the succession rules .
The line of succession is also used to  चुनें the counsellors of राज्य ( और a रीजेंट if the need arises ) अंतर्गत the प्रावधानों  of the Regency Act 1937 .
For earlier versions of the line of succession , see  इतिहास of the अंग्रेजों लकीर of उत्तराधिकार  .
Edward Montgomery Clift ( October 17 , 1920July 23 , 1966 ) was an American film and  स्टेज कर्ता the नई यॉर्क times’ obituary  noted his portrayal of `` moody , sensitive young men '' .
He often played outsiders and `` victim-heroes  '' ; उदाहरण शामिल the सोशल climber in जार्ज स्टीवंस 's a प्लेस in the सूर्य , the anguished कैथोलिक पुजारी  in Hitchcock 's I Confess , the doomed regular soldier Robert E. Lee Prewitt in Fred Zinnemann 's From Here to Eternity , and the Jewish GI bullied by antisemites in Edward Dmytryk 's The Young Lions .
Later , after a disfiguring car crash in 1956 , and alcohol and prescription drug abuse , he became  erratic  .
Nevertheless  महत्वपूर्ण भूमिकाएँ यहूद स्टिल उसके , सहित `` the लापरवाह , alcoholic , mother-fixated रोडियो यजमान  '' in John Huston 's The Misfits , the title role in Huston 's , and the concentration camp victim in Stanley Kramer 's Judgment at Nuremberg . ''
Clift  प्राप्त चार अकादमी पुरस्कार nominations दौरान  his career , three for Best Actor and one for Best Supporting Actor .
The War on Terror ( also known as the Global War on Terrorism ) is a  पद commonly लागू to an अंतरराष्ट्रीय सैन्य अभियान  which started as a result of the 11 September 2001 terrorist attacks on the United States .
This resulted  in an अंतरराष्ट्रीय सैन्य  campaign to eliminate al-Qaeda and other militant organizations .
The United Kingdom and  अनेक अन्य नाटो और non-nato राष्ट्र participate  in the conflict .
The phrase 'War on  आतंक ' थी पहला प्रयुक्त by us अध्यक्ष जार्ज W. बुश  on 20 September 2001 .
The Bush administration and the Western media have since used the term to signify a global military , political , lawful , and conceptual struggle—targeting both  संगठन designated as आतंकवादी  and regimes accused of supporting them .
It was typically  प्रयुक्त साथ a particular फ़ोकस on उग्रवादी  Islamists , al-Qaeda , and other jihadi groups .
Although the term is not officially used by the administration of US President Barack Obama ( which instead uses the  पद विदेशी आकस्मिकता आपरेशन ) , it is स्टिल commonly प्रयुक्त by राजनेता , in the मीडिया और by कुछ पहलुओं of सरकारी  officially , such as the United States ' Global War on Terrorism Service Medal .
German battleship Schleswig-Holstein ,  westerplatte , सितंबर  1 , 1939
Destroyer USS  शॉ exploding बाद उसके आगे पत्रिका थी  detonated during the Attack on Pearl Harbor
The main causes of World War II were  nationalistic मुद्दे , अनसुलझे मुद्दे , और resentments resulting इससे संसार युद्ध i और the interwar काल  in Europe , in addition to the effects of the Great Depression in the 1930s .
The culmination of events that led to the outbreak of war are generally understood to be the  1939 आक्रमण of कैंडल by जर्मनी और सोवियत रूस और the 1937 आक्रमण of the  Republic of China by the Empire of Japan .
These military aggressions were the result of decisions made by the  सत्तावादी सत्ताधारी नाजी elite in जर्मनी और by the नेतृत्व of the  Kwantung Army in Japan .
World War II started after these aggressive  क्रियाएँ यहूद मिले साथ an आधिकारिक घोषणा  of war and/or armed resistance .
The following is a list of gods and other divine  और semi-divine आंकड़े  from Greek mythology .
The list does not include creatures ; for these ,  देखिए सूची of यूनानी पौराणिक  creatures .
The Mitsubishi Galant is an automobile manufactured by  मित्सुबिशी मोटर्स between 1969 और 2012  .
The name was  निकला इससे the फ्रेंच शब्द galant  , meaning `` chivalrous '' .
There have  महरूम नौ पृथक पीढियां  , and cumulative sales now exceed five million .
It began as a compact sedan , but over the course of its life has  विकसित into a larger mid-size  car .
Initial production was only based in Japan , but since 1994 the American market has been served by vehicles assembled at  the पूर्व diamond-star मोटर्स ( dsm ) सुविधा in सामान्य  , Illinois .
Blood pressure ( BP ) , sometimes referred to as arterial blood pressure , is the pressure  exerted by circulating रक्त upon the दीवारें of रक्त बरतन  , and is one of the principal vital signs .
When used without further specification , `` blood  दबाव '' प्रायः refers to the arterial दबाव of  the systemic circulation .
During each heartbeat , blood pressure varies  between a अधिकतम ( systolic ) और a न्यूनतम  ( diastolic ) pressure .
The blood pressure in the circulation is principally due  to the pumping कार्रवाई of the  heart .
मतभेद in औसत रक्त दबाव हैं जिम्मेदार  for blood flow from one location to another in the circulation .
The rate of mean blood flow depends on the resistance to flow  प्रस्तुत by the रक्त  vessels .
Mean blood pressure decreases as the circulating blood  चालें दूर इससे the दिल  through arteries and capillaries due to viscous losses of energy .
Mean blood  दबाव बूंदें over the पूरे परिसंचरण , हालांकि  most of the fall occurs along the small arteries and arterioles .
Gravity affects blood pressure via hydrostatic forces ( e.g. , during  खड़ा ) और valves in रगों , श्वास , और pumping इससे संकुचन of skeletal मांसपेशियां भी  influence blood pressure in veins .
Blood  दबाव बगैर further specification प्रायः refers to the प्रणालीगत arterial दबाव measured at a व्यक्ति 's अपर भुजा  and is a measure of the pressure in the brachial artery , the major artery in the upper arm .
A person’s blood  दबाव is प्रायः expressed in शर्तें of the systolic  pressure over diastolic pressure and is measured in millimetres of mercury ( mmHg ) , for example 120/80 .
A  वीटो – लैटिन लिये `` i forbid '' – is the शक्ति ( प्रयुक्त by an  officer of the state , for example ) to unilaterally stop an official action , especially the enactment of legislation .
A veto can be absolute , as for instance in  the संयुक्त राष्ट्र सुरक्षा  Council , whose permanent members ( China , France , Russia , United Kingdom , United States of America ) can block any resolution .
Or it can be limited , as in the  विधान प्रक्रम of the संयुक्त राज्य  , where a two-thirds vote in both the House and Senate may override a Presidential veto of legislation .
A veto only gives power to stop  परिवर्तन , नहीं to अपनाना उन्हें ( मगर लिये the विरल  `` amendatory veto '' ) .
Thus a veto  allows इसके होल्डर to  protect the status quo .
The concept of a veto  देह originated साथ  the Roman consuls and tribunes .
Either of the two consuls holding office in a given year could  ब्लाक a सैन्य or सिविल निर्णय by the अन्य ; कोई ट्रिब्यून था the शक्ति to unilaterally  block legislation passed by the Roman Senate .
Sulfur dioxide ( also sulphur dioxide ) is the  रासायनिक यौगिक साथ the सूत्र  .
It is a toxic gas with a pungent , irritating smell , that  is released by ज्वालामुखी और in विभिन्न  industrial processes .
Since coal and petroleum often contain  गंधक यौगिकों , उनके दहन generates गंधक डाइऑक्साइड जबतक the गंधक  compounds are removed before burning the fuel .
Further oxidation of SO2 , usually in the presence of  a उत्प्रेरक ऐसे as no2 , फ़ॉर्म h2so4 , और यूँ एसिड बरसात  .
Sulfur dioxide emissions are also a precursor to  अभिकण in the माहौल  .
Both of these impacts are cause for concern over the  पर्यावरणीय प्रभाव of ये fuels  .
Myasthenia gravis ( from Greek μύς `` muscle '' , ``  कमज़ोरी '' , और `` गंभीर '' ;  abbreviated MG ) is an autoimmune neuromuscular disease leading to fluctuating muscle weakness and fatigability .
It is an autoimmune disorder , in which weakness is caused by  circulating antibodies कि ब्लाक acetylcholine receptors at the postsynaptic neuromuscular जंक्शन  , inhibiting the excitatory effects of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine on nicotinic receptors throughout neuromuscular junctions .
Myasthenia is treated medically with  acetylcholinesterase inhibitors  or immunosuppressants , and , in selected cases , thymectomy .
The disease  incidence is 3–30 मामले प्रति लाख  per year and rising as a result of increased awareness .
MG must be distinguished from congenital myasthenic syndromes that can  उपस्थित समान लक्षण लकिन प्रस्ताव no जवाब to immunosuppressive  treatments .
परावर्तक मुड़ nematic  liquid crystal display .
Polarizing filter  फिल्मी साथ a लंबवत  axis to polarize light as it enters .
कांच substrate  with ITO electrodes .
The shapes of these electrodes will  determine the आकार कि होगा appear जब  the LCD is turned ON .
Vertical  ridges  etched on the surface are smooth .
Twisted nematic  द्रव क्रिस्टल .
Glass substrate with  आम एलेक्ट्रोड फिल्मी ( ito ) साथ आड़ा  ridges to line up with the horizontal filter .
Polarizing filter  फिल्मी साथ a आड़ा  axis to block/pass light .
परावर्तक सतह to भेजें लाइट  back to viewer .
( In a backlit LCD  , इस परत is replaced  with a light source . )
A liquid-crystal display (  एलसीडी ) is a चपटा फलक प्रदर्शक  , electronic visual display , or video display that uses the light modulating properties of liquid crystals .
द्रव crystals do  not emit light directly .
LCDs are available to display arbitrary images ( as in a general-purpose computer display ) or fixed images which can be displayed or hidden , such as preset  शब्द , अंक , और 7-segment प्रदर्शक as in a डिजिटल क्लॉक  .
They use the same basic  प्रौद्योगिकी , मगर कि मनमानी बिंब  are made up of a large number of small pixels , while other displays have larger elements .
LCDs are used in a wide range of  अनुप्रयोग सहित कंप्यूटर मॉनीटर , टेलीविज़न  , instrument panels , aircraft cockpit displays , and signage .
They are  आम in उपभोक्ता डिवाइस ऐसे as वीडियो खिलाड़ी , गेमिंग डिवाइस , घड़ियाँ ,  watches , calculators , and telephones , and have replaced cathode ray tube ( CRT ) displays in most applications .
They are available in a wider  दायरा of स्क्रीन आकार than crt और प्लाज्मा प्रदर्शक  , and since they do not use phosphors , they do not suffer image burn-in .
LCDs are , however , susceptible  to चित्र हठ  .
The LCD screen is  अधिक उर्जा कुशल और can  be disposed of more safely than a CRT .
Its low electrical power consumption enables it to be used in battery  -powered इलेक्ट्रॉनिक उपकरण  .
It is an electronically modulated optical device  बना up of कोई क्रमांक of खण्ड भर साथ द्रव crystals और arrayed in सामने of a लाइट  source ( backlight ) or reflector to produce images in color or monochrome .
Liquid  crystals यहूद पहला  discovered in 1888 .
By 2008 , worldwide sales of televisions with LCD screens exceeded annual sales of CRT units ; the  crt became obsolete लिये सबसे उद्देश्य  .
The Borgata Hotel Casino and Spa is a  लक्ज़री होटल , कसीनो , और स्पा in अटलांटिक नगर , नई जर्सी  , United States .
It is  स्वामित्व by मरीना ज़िला विकास , a संयुक्त venture  between Boyd Gaming and a divesture trust established by MGM Resorts International .
The $ 1.1 billion  कसीनो होटल सुविधाएँ 2,002 कक्ष  and is the largest hotel in New Jersey .
The Borgata opened in July 2003 as a Las Vegas-style megaresort  और is the top-grossing कसीनो in अटलांटिक  City .
A  बोतल of ऊँची potency  B-complex vitamin supplement pills .
A vitamin ( or ) is an organic compound  जरूरी by an सजीव as a vital nutrient  in limited amounts .
An organic chemical compound ( or related set of  यौगिकों ) is पुकारा a विटामिन जब it can नहीं be synthesized in sufficient quantities  by an organism , and must be obtained from the diet .
Thus , the term is  सशर्त दोनो on the  circumstances and on the particular organism .
For example , ascorbic acid ( vitamin C ) is a vitamin  लिये इंसानो , लकिन नहीं लिये  most other animals , and biotin and vitamin D are required in the human diet only in certain circumstances .
By convention , the term vitamin includes neither  अन्य अनिवार्य nutrients , ऐसे as dietary खनिज , अनिवार्य वसीय acids , or अनिवार्य अमीनो acids ( जिससे हैं needed in larger amounts  than vitamins ) nor the large number of other nutrients that promote health but are otherwise required less often .
Thirteen vitamins are  universally पहचाना  at present .
Vitamins are classified by their biological and chemical  कार्यकलाप , नहीं उनके ढांचा  .
Thus , each `` vitamin '' refers to a  क्रमांक of vitamer यौगिकों कि सब  show the biological activity associated with a particular vitamin .
Such a set of chemicals is grouped under an alphabetized vitamin `` generic descriptor '' title , such as `` vitamin A `` , which  शामिल the यौगिकों retinal , रेटिनॉल , और चार  known carotenoids .
Vitamers by definition are convertible to the active form of the vitamin in the  देह , और हैं sometimes inter-convertible to एक another  , as well .
विटामिन have विविध  biochemical functions .
Some have hormone-like functions as regulators of mineral metabolism ( such as vitamin D )  , or regulators of कोशिका और ऊतक विकास और differentiation ( ऐसे  as some forms of vitamin A ) .
Others function as antioxidants (  e.g. , विटामिन e और sometimes  vitamin C ) .
The largest number of vitamins ( such as B complex vitamins ) function as precursors for enzyme cofactors ,  कि सहायता एंजाइमों in उनके कार्य as catalysts  in metabolism .
In this  भूमिका , विटामिन may be tightly बंधी to एंजाइमों as भाग of prosthetic  groups : For example , biotin is part of enzymes involved in making fatty acids .
Vitamins may also be less tightly bound to enzyme catalysts as coenzymes , detachable molecules that function  to carry रासायनिक समूह or electrons between अणुओं  .
For  उदाहरण , फोलिक एसिड may  carry methyl , formyl , and methylene groups in the cell .
Although these roles in assisting enzyme-substrate reactions are  विटामिन ' best-known फलन , the अन्य  vitamin functions are equally important .
Until the mid-1930s , when the first commercial yeast-extract vitamin B complex and semi-synthetic vitamin C supplement tablets were sold , vitamins were obtained solely through food intake , and changes in diet (  जिससे , लिये उदाहरण , could occur दौरान a particular growing ऋतु ) प्रायः greatly  altered the types and amounts of vitamins ingested .
However , vitamins have been produced as commodity chemicals and made widely available as inexpensive semisynthetic and synthetic-source  multivitamin dietary और खाना पूरक और एडिटिव , चूंकि the मध्य of  the 20th century .
World Muslim population by percentage ( Pew  शोध बीच , 2009  )
World  मुस्लिम जनसांख्यिकी  in millions
Islam is the world 's  दूसरी largest धर्म  after Christianity .
according to a 2010 पढ़ाई , islam रै 1.62  billion adherents , making up over 23 % of the world population .
Islam is the predominant religion in the  मध्य ईस्ट , in सहेल , in the  Horn of Africa and northern Africa , and in some parts of Asia .
Large communities of Muslims are  भी मिला in चीन , the balkans , और  Russia .
Other parts of the world host  विशाल मुस्लिम अप्रवासी समुदायों ; in पश्चिमी यूरोपीय , लिये  instance , Islam is the second largest religion after Christianity , where it represents 6 % of the total population .
According to the Pew  शोध बीच in 2010 वहीँ यहूद 49 muslim-majority  countries .
Around 62 % of the world 's Muslims live in South and Southeast Asia ,  साथ over 1 अरब adherents  .
The largest Muslim country is Indonesia , home to 12.7 % of the world 's Muslims , followed by Pakistan ( 11.0 %  ) , इण्डिया ( 10.9 % ) , और  Bangladesh ( 9.2 % ) .
About 20  % of मुसलमान सजीव in  Arab countries .
In the Middle East , the non-Arab  देशों of तुर्कों और इरान हैं the largest muslim-majority देशों ; in अफ़्रीकी  , Egypt and Nigeria have the most populous Muslim communities .
A study conducted by  the pew शोध बीच in 2010 और released जनवरी  2011 found that there are 1.62 billion Muslims around the world .
The study found more Muslims in the United Kingdom than in Lebanon and more  in चीन than in सीरियाई  .
Rhode  द्वीप ( or ) , officially the राज्य  of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations , is a state in the New England region of the United States .
Rhode Island is the smallest in area ,  the आठवीं तनिक populous , लकिन the दूसरी सबसे densely  populated of the 50 US states behind New Jersey .
Rhode Island is bordered by Connecticut to the west and  मैसाचुसेट्स to the उत्तर और ईस्ट , और it साझा a जल boundary साथ नई यॉर्क  's Long Island to the southwest .
Rhode Island was the first  of the 13 असली colonies to घोषित स्वतंत्रता  from British rule , declaring itself independent on May 4 , 1776 , two months before any other colony .
The State was also the last of the thirteen original colonies to  ratify the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान  .
Rhode Island 's official nickname is `` The Ocean State '' , a reference to the State 's geography , since Rhode Island  रै अनेक विशाल bays और inlets कि राशि to परिचय 14 % of  its total area .
इसके जमीन क्षेत्रफल is  , but its total area is significantly larger .
Dubai ( ; ' , ) is a city in the United Arab  अमीरात , स्तिथ भीतर  the emirate of the same name .
The emirate of Dubai is located on the southeast coast of the Persian Gulf on  the arabian प्रायद्वीप और  is one of the seven emirates that make up the country .
it रै the largest  population in the UAE ( 2,106,177 ) and the second-largest land territory by area ( 4,114 km2 ) after Abu Dhabi .
Dubai and Abu Dhabi , the national capital , are the only  दो अमीरात to have वीटो शक्ति over नाजुक matters of नेशनल  importance in the country 's legislature .
The city of Dubai is  स्तिथ on the अमीर 's उत्तरी तटरेखा और  heads up the Dubai-Sharjah-Ajman metropolitan area .
Dubai is nowadays often misperceived as a country or city-state and ,  in कुछ मामले , the uae as a पूरे रै महरूम वर्णित  as 'Dubai ' .
The earliest mention of Dubai is in 1095  ad , और the earliest  recorded settlement in the region dates from 1799 .
The Sheikhdom of Dubai was formally established in 1833 by Sheikh Maktoum  बिन butti al-maktoum जब he persuaded around 800 सदस्यों of उसके जनजाति of the bani yas , जीना in कया थी तब the  Second Saudi State and now part of Saudi Arabia , to follow him to the Dubai Creek by the Abu Falasa clan of the Bani Yas .
It remained under the tribe 's control when the United Kingdom assumed protection of the Sheikhdom in 1892 and joined the  nascent संयुक्त अरब अमीरात upon स्वतंत्रता in 1971 as the  country 's second emirate .
Its strategic geographic location made the town an important trading  हब और by the शुरूआत of the 20th सदी , दुबई  was already an important regional port .
Today , Dubai has emerged as a cosmopolitan metropolis that  रै grown steadily to become a वैश्विक नगर और a कारोबार और सांस्कृतिक हब of the मध्य ईस्ट और  the Persian Gulf region .
Although Dubai 's economy was historically built on the oil industry , the emirate 's Western-style model of business  ड्राइव इसके अर्थव्यवस्था साथ the  main revenues now coming from tourism , real estate , and financial services .
Dubai has recently attracted world attention through many  अभिनव विशाल निर्माण प्रोजेक्ट  and sports events .
The city has become symbolic for its skyscrapers and high-rise buildings , such as the  संसार 's tallest burj खलीफा , in जोड to महत्वाकांक्षी विकास प्रोजेक्ट सहित  man-made islands , hotels , and some of the largest shopping malls in the region and the world .
This  increased ध्यान रै भी highlighted मजदूर और  human rights issues concerning the city 's largely South Asian paid workforce .
दुबई 's प्रॉपर्टी मार्केट अनुभवी a  major deterioration in 2008–2009 as a result of the worldwide economic downturn following the financial crisis of 2007-2008 .
However , Dubai has made a steady and gradual  रिकवरी साथ सहायता coming  from neighboring emirates .
The handful of new projects that are in the pipeline  have महरूम समर्थ to सहायता दुबई रियल एस्टेट मेक  a comeback .
As of 2012 , Dubai is the 22nd most expensive city in the world ,  और the सबसे महंगी नगर in the मध्य ईस्ट , surpassing  Israel 's Tel Aviv ( 31st ) .
Dubai has also been rated as one of the  बेहतरीन स्थान to सजीव in the मध्य ईस्ट , सहित by us अमरीकी  global consulting firm Mercer who rated the city as the best place to live in the Middle East in 2011 .
The following is a list  of कॉलेजों और विश्वविद्यालयों in the u.S.  state of Illinois .
Surface of the Atlantic ocean  बैठक the धरती 's ग्रहीय boundary  layer and troposphere .
Waves on  an समंदर coast  .
This animation  उपयोग धरती विज्ञान आंकड़ा इससे a किस्में of सेंसर on नासा  Earth observing satellites to measure physical oceanography parameters such as ocean currents , ocean winds , sea surface height and sea surface temperature .
An ocean ( ; the World Ocean of classical antiquity ) is a body of saline  जल कि composes a विशाल  part of a planet 's hydrosphere .
In the context of Earth , it refers to  एक or सब of the प्रमुख विभाजन of the ग्रह  's World Ocean – they are , in descending order of area , the Pacific , Atlantic , Indian , Southern ( Antarctic ) , and Arctic Oceans .
The word `` sea  `` is प्रायः प्रयुक्त interchangeably साथ `` समंदर '' , लकिन सख्ती  speaking a sea is a body of saline water ( possibly a division of the World Ocean ) partly or fully enclosed by land .
Earth is the only planet known to have an ocean ( or  कोई विशाल amounts of खोलें द्रव जल  ) .
Approximately 72 % of  the ग्रह 's सतह ( ~3.6x108 km2 ) is covered by saline जल कि  is customarily divided into several principal oceans and smaller seas , with the ocean covering approximately 71 % of the Earth 's surface .
In terms of the hydrosphere of the Earth , the  समंदर contains 97 % of  the Earth 's water .
Oceanographers have stated that  आउट of 97 % , तभी 5 % of the समंदर  as a whole on Earth has been explored .
Because it is the principal component of Earth 's hydrosphere , the world ocean is integral to all known life , forms part of the carbon cycle , and influences climate and weather  पैटर्न  .
The total volume is  लगभग 1.3 अरब घन किलोमीटर ( 310  million cu mi ) with an average depth of .
It is the  आवास of 230,000 ज्ञात प्रजाति , हालांकि much of the समंदर 's  depths remain unexplored and it is estimated that over two million marine species exist .
The origin of Earth  's महासागर is स्टिल अनजान  , but oceans are believed to have formed in the Hadean period and may have been the impetus for the emergence of life .
extraterrestrial महासागर may be रचित  of a wide range of elements and compounds .
The only confirmed large stable bodies of extraterrestrial surface liquids are the lakes of Titan , although there  is प्रमाण  for the existence of oceans elsewhere in the Solar System .
Early in their  भूगर्भिक histories , मंगल और शुक्र  are theorized to have had large water oceans .
The Mars  समंदर परिकल्पना suggests कि nearly a तीसरा of the सतह  of Mars was once covered by water , though the water on Mars is no longer oceanic , and a runaway greenhouse effect may have boiled away the global ocean of Venus .
Compounds such as salts and ammonia dissolved in water lower its freezing point , so that water might exist in  विशाल quantities in extraterrestrial environments as brine or convecting  ice .
Unconfirmed oceans are speculated beneath the  सतह of अनेक बौना ग्रह और प्राकृतिक satellites ; notably , the  ocean of Europa is believed to have over twice the water volume of Earth .
The Solar  प्रणाली 's गैस दानव ग्रह हैं  also believed to possess liquid atmospheric layers of yet to be confirmed compositions .
Oceans may also exist on exoplanets and exomoons ,  सहित सतह महासागर of द्रव जल  within a circumstellar habitable zone .
Ocean planets are a hypothetical type of planet with a surface completely  covered साथ द्रव  .
Elvis Aaron Presley  ( जनवरी 8 , 1935 – अगस्त 16 , 1977  ) was an American singer and actor .
A cultural icon , he is  commonly ज्ञात by  the single name Elvis .
One of the most popular  संगीतकारों of the 20th सदी , he is प्रायः referred  to as the `` King of Rock and Roll '' or `` the King '' .
Born in Tupelo , Mississippi , Presley  स्थानांतरित to मेम्फिस , टेनेसी  , with his family at the age of 13 .
He  began उसके करियर वहीँ in 1954 , working साथ सूर्य रिकॉर्ड मालिक  Sam Phillips , who wanted to bring the sound of African-American music to a wider audience .
Accompanied by guitarist Scotty Moore and bassist Bill Black , Presley was the most important popularizer of rockabilly , an  uptempo , backbeat -ड्राइवn संलयन of देश  and rhythm and blues .
RCA Victor acquired his contract in a deal arranged  by कर्नल tom पार्कर , जो गई on to मैनेज  the singer for over two decades .
Presley 's first  आरसीए सिंगल , `` heartbreak होटल `` , released in  January 1956 , was a number-one hit .
He became the leading figure of the newly popular sound of rock and roll with a series of network  टेलीविज़न दिखावे और chart-topping  records .
His energized interpretations of songs , many from African-American sources , and his uninhibited  प्रदर्शन स्टाइल बना उसे enormously  popular—and controversial .
In November 1956 , he made his film debut  in प्रेम me टेंडर  .
Drafted into military service in 1958 , Presley relaunched his recording career two years later with some  of उसके सबसे commercially कामयाब  work .
He  मंचन few कॉन्सर्ट however , और हिदायत by पार्कर  , proceeded to devote much of the 1960s to making Hollywood movies and soundtrack albums , most of them critically derided .
In 1968 , after seven years away from the stage , he returned to live performance in a  मनाये वापसी टेलीविज़न खास कि led to an विस्तारित लास वेगास कॉन्सर्ट रेसिडेंसी  and a string of profitable tours .
In 1973 Presley staged the first concert broadcast  globally via उपग्रह , aloha इससे  Hawaii .
नुस्खा ड्रग गाली severely deteriorated  his health , and he died suddenly in 1977 at the age of 42 .
प्रेस्ली is regarded as एक of  the most important figures of 20th-century popular culture .
He had a  बहुमुखी आवाज़ और unusually चौड़ी कामयाबी encompassing  many genres , including country , pop ballads , gospel , and blues .
He is  the best-selling सोलो कलाकार  in the history of popular music .
Nominated for 14 competitive Grammys ,  he जीती तीन , और प्राप्त the ग्रैमी आजीवन  Achievement Award at age 36 .
He has been  inducted into अनेक म्यूज़िक हॉल  of fame .
A  कांच of  root beer with foam
Root beer is a carbonated ,  sweetened पेय , originally बना using the रूट of a sassafras संयंत्र ( or  the bark of a sassafras tree ) as the primary flavor .
Root beer , popularized  in उत्तर अमेरिका ,  comes in two forms : alcoholic and soft drink .
The historical root beer was analogous to small beer in that the process  provided a पेय साथ a बहुत कम दारू सामग्री  .
Although roots are used as the source of many  नरम पेय throughout  the world , often different names are used .
Fluorescent minerals emit visible light when  उजागर to पराबैंगनी  light
Fluorescence is the emission of light by  a पदार्थ कि रै अवशोषित  light or other electromagnetic radiation .
It is a form  of संदीप्ति  .
In most cases , the  उत्सर्जित लाइट रै a longer wavelength , और  therefore lower energy , than the absorbed radiation .
However , when the absorbed electromagnetic radiation is intense , it is possible for one electron to absorb two photons ; this  two-photon अवशोषण can सीसे to उत्सर्जन of विकिरण having a shorter wavelength than the अवशोषित विकिरण  .
The  उत्सर्जित विकिरण may भी be of the  same wavelength as the absorbed radiation , termed `` resonance fluorescence '' .
The  सबसे striking उदाहरण of प्रतिदीप्ति occur जब the अवशोषित विकिरण is in the पराबैंगनी  region of the spectrum , and thus invisible to the human eye , and the emitted light is in the visible region .
Fluorescence has many practical applications , including mineralogy , gemology , chemical sensors ( fluorescence  स्पेक्ट्रमिकी ) , fluorescent लेबलिंग  , dyes , biological detectors , and , most commonly , fluorescent lamps .
Informal  लॉजिक , intuitively  , refers to the principles of logic and logical thought outside of a formal setting .
However , perhaps because of the informal in the title , the precise definition of  अनौपचारिक लॉजिक is a पदार्थ of कुछ विवाद  .
Ralph H. Johnson and J. Anthony Blair define informal logic as `` a branch of logic whose task is to develop non-formal standards , criteria ,  प्रक्रियाओं लिये the विश्लेषण , निर्वचन , मूल्यांकन , आलोचना और  construction of argumentation . ''
This definition reflects what had been implicit in their practice and what others were doing in  उनके अनौपचारिक लॉजिक  texts .
Informal logic is associated with ( informal ) fallacies , critical thinking , the Thinking  कौशल गति और the interdisciplinary पूछताछ ज्ञात as  argumentation theory .
Frans H. van  eemeren writes कि the लेबल `` अनौपचारिक लॉजिक '' कवर a `` संग्रहण of normative approaches  to the study of reasoning in ordinary language that remain closer to the practice of argumentation than formal logic . ''
USA annual real GDP 1910–60 ,  साथ the सालो of the  Great Depression ( 1929–1939 ) highlighted .
Unemployment rate in the US  1910–1960 , साथ the सालो of the ग्रेट अवसाद  ( 1929–1939 ) highlighted .
The Great Depression began in August of  1929 , जब the संयुक्त राज्य अर्थव्यवस्था  first went into an economic recession .
Although the country spent two months with declining GDP , it was not until the Wall Street Crash of October ,  1929 कि the प्रभाव of a घटती अर्थव्यवस्था यहूद लगा , और a प्रमुख  worldwide economic downturn ensued .
The market crash marked the beginning of a decade of high unemployment , poverty , low  profits , अपस्फीति , plunging फार्म incomes , और खोया अवसर लिये  economic growth and personal advancement .
Although its causes are still  अनिश्चित और विवादास्पद , the जाल प्रभाव  was a sudden and general loss of confidence in the economic future .
The usual explanations include numerous factors , especially high consumer debt , ill-regulated  बाज़ार कि permitted overoptimistic लोन by बैंको और निवेशकों , और the कमी of high-growth नई उद्योग  , all interacting to create a downward economic spiral of reduced spending , falling confidence , and lowered production .
Industries that  suffered the सबसे शामिल निर्माण , कृषि as dust-bowl शर्तें persisted  in the agricultural heartland , shipping , mining , and logging as well as durable goods like automobiles and appliances that could be postponed .
The economy reached bottom in the winter of 1932–33  ; तब आए चार सालो of  very rapid growth until 1937 , when the Recession of 1937 brought back 1934 levels of unemployment .
The  अवसाद caused प्रमुख राजनैतिक  changes in America .
Three years into the depression , Herbert Hoover lost the 1932  अध्यक्षीय चुनाव to फ्रैंकलिन delano रूज़वेल्ट  in a sweeping landslide .
Roosevelt  's आर्थिक रिकवरी योजना , the नई सौदे , instituted unprecedented कार्यक्रम  for relief , recovery and reform , and brought about a major realignment of American politics .
The  अवसाद भी resulted in an बढ़ाएँ  of emigration of people to other countries for the first time in American history .
For example , some immigrants went back to their native  देशों , और कुछ देशी us नागरिकों गई  to Canada , Australia , and South Africa .
It also resulted in the mass migration of people  इससे badly hit क्षेत्रों in the ग्रेट मैदान और the दक्षिण to स्थान  such as California and the North , respectively ( see Okies and the Great Migration of African Americans ) .
Racial  तनाव भी increased  during this time .
By the 1940s  आव्रजन था लौटे वापस  to normal , and emigration declined .
A well-known example of an emigrant was Frank McCourt , who went to  आयरलैंड , as recounted in  his book Angela 's Ashes .
The memory of the Depression also shaped modern theories of economics and resulted in many changes in how the government dealt  साथ आर्थिक downturns , ऐसे as the उपयोग of stimulus पैकेज , keynesian  economics , and Social Security .
It also shaped modern American literature , resulting in famous  novels ऐसे as जॉन steinbeck 's `` the अंगूर  of Wrath `` and `` Of Mice and Men `` .
The Great Depression of the 1930s started with the stock  मार्केट क्रैश of अक्तूबर 1929 .
Turkey ( ) , officially the Republic  of तुर्कों , is a transcontinental देश  , located mostly on Anatolia in Western Asia and on East Thrace in Southeastern Europe .
Turkey is bordered by eight countries : Bulgaria to the northwest ; Greece to the west ; Georgia to the northeast ; Armenia ,  इरान और the अज़रबैजानी exclave of nakhchivan to the ईस्ट ; और इराकी और सीरियाई  to the southeast .
The Mediterranean Sea is to the  दक्षिण ; the ईजियन समुद्र is to the वेस्ट  ; and the Black Sea is to the north .
the समुद्र of मरमरा , the bosphorus और the dardanelles ( जिससे साथ रूप the तुर्की  Straits ) demarcate the boundary between Thrace and Anatolia ; they also separate Europe and Asia .
Turkey 's location at the  क्रॉसरोड्स of यूरोपीय और एशिया makes  it a country of significant geostrategic importance .
The country 's  आधिकारिक भाषा is तुर्की , a turkic भाषा , जिससे is बोला  by approximately 85 % of the population as mother tongue .
The most numerous ethnic group is the Turks , who constitute between 70 %  और 75 % of the जनसांख्यिकी according to the संसार factbook  .
Kurds are the largest ethnic minority and , according to the same source ,  क्रमांक around 18 % of the जनसांख्यिकी  while other ethnic minorities are estimated to be at 7–12 % .
The vast majority of  the जनसांख्यिकी is मुस्लिम  .
The area now called Turkey has been inhabited since the Paleolithic , including  विभिन्न प्राचीन आनातोलियाई सभ्यताओं  and Thracian peoples .
After  सिकंदर the ग्रेट 's conquest , the क्षेत्रफल  was Hellenized , which continued with the Roman rule and the transition into the Byzantine Empire .
The Seljuk Turks began migrating into the area in the 11th century , starting the process of Turkification , which was greatly accelerated by the  सलजूक़ विजय over the byzantines at the बैटल of manzikert in 1071  .
The Seljuk Sultanate of Rûm  शासित आनातोलिया जबतक the mongol आक्रमण  in 1243 , upon which it disintegrated into several small Turkish beyliks .
Starting from the late 13th century , the Ottoman beylik united Anatolia and  निर्मित an साम्राज्य encompassing much of southeastern यूरोपीय , पश्चिमी एशिया और उत्तर  Africa .
After the Ottoman  साम्राज्य collapsed following इसके शिकस्त in संसार युद्ध i , भाग  of it were occupied by the victorious Allies .
A cadre of young military officers , led by Mustafa Kemal Atatürk and his colleagues , organized a successful resistance to the Allies ; in 1923 they established the modern  गणतंत्र of तुर्कों , साथ अतातुर्क as इसके पहला अध्यक्ष .
Turkey is  a लोकतांत्रिक , धर्मनिरपेक्ष , एकात्मक , संवैधानिक  republic with a diverse cultural heritage .
Turkey has  become increasingly एकीकृत साथ the वेस्ट through सदस्यता in संगठनों ऐसे  as the Council of Europe , NATO , OECD , OSCE and the G-20 major economies .
Turkey began full  सदस्यता negotiations साथ the यूरोपीय संघ in 2005 , having महरूम  an associate member of the European Economic Community since 1963 and having joined the EU Customs Union in 1995 .
Turkey has also fostered close cultural , political and economic relations with the Middle East , Caucasus , the Turkic states of Central Asia and the African countries through membership in organisations such as the Turkic Council , Joint Administration of  turkic कला और संस्कृति , संगठन of इस्लामी सहयोग  and the Economic Cooperation Organisation .
Turkey 's growing economy and  राजनयिक पहलों  have led to its recognition as a regional power .
Turkey is the world 's 17th largest  अर्थव्यवस्था by नाममात्र जीडीपी और the 16th largest  by purchasing power parity .
Caryn Elaine Johnson , best known as Whoopi Goldberg ( , ( born November 13 , 1955 ) is an American comedienne , actress ,  singer-songwriter , राजनैतिक activist , लेखक  and talk show host .
Goldberg made her film debut  in the रंग जामुनी ( 1985 ) , playing  Celie , a mistreated black woman in the Deep South .
She  प्राप्त a नामांकन लिये the अकादमी  Award for Best Actress and won her first Golden Globe Award for her role in the film .
In 1990 , she  निभाई oda mae भूरा , a wacky मानसिक helping a slain man ( पैट्रिक swayze ) सहेजें  his lover ( Demi Moore ) in the blockbuster Ghost .
This  प्रदर्शन जीती उसके a दूसरी सुनहरी ग्लोब और an अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन supporting अभिनेत्री ; इस बना गोल्डबर्ग तभी the दूसरी ब्लैक स्त्री in  the history of the Academy Awards to win an acting Oscar—the first being Hattie McDaniel who won for Gone With the Wind in 1939 .
Notable  बाद films शामिल सिस्टर  Act and Sister Act 2 , The Player , Made in America , How Stella Got Her Groove Back , Girl , Interrupted and Rat Race .
She is also acclaimed for her roles as the  बारटेंडर guinan in स्टार ट्रेक : the अगला पीढी , as टेरी doolittle in jumpin ' जोकर फ्लैश , और as कार्मेन  Tibideaux in Glee , as well as the voice of Shenzi the hyena in The Lion King .
गोल्डबर्ग रै महरूम मनोनीत  for 13 Emmy Awards for her work in television .
She was co-producer of the popular game show  हॉलीवुड वर्गों इससे 1998  to 2004 .
She has been the moderator of the daytime  बात दिखाएँ the दृश्य चूंकि  2007 .
Goldberg has a Grammy , two Daytime  emmys , दो सुनहरी ग्लोब्स , a टोनी ( लिये उत्पादन  , not acting ) , and an Oscar .
In addition ,  गोल्डबर्ग रै a अंग्रेजों अकादमी फिल्मी पुरस्कार , चार लोगों 's चुनाव पुरस्कार , और  has been honored with a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame .
She is  एक of the few मनोरंजनकर्ता  who have won an Emmy , Grammy , Oscar , and Tony Award .
augusta is a संचित नगर in the u.S. राज्य of जॉर्जिया ,  located at the fall line of the Savannah River , at the head of its navigable portion .
As of the 2010 census , the Augusta–  रिचमंड काउंटी जनसांख्यिकी थी 195,844 नहीं गिनती the unconsolidated  cities of Hephzibah and Blythe .
Augusta is the principal city of the Augusta – Richmond County Metropolitan Statistical  क्षेत्रफल , जिससे as of 2010 था an अनुमानित जनसांख्यिकी of 556,877 , बनाना it दोनो the second-largest  city and the second-largest metro area in the state after Atlanta .
It is  the 116th-largest  city in the United States .
Internationally , Augusta is best known for  होस्टिंग the मास्टर्स टूर्नामेंट in गोल्फ़ प्रत्येक  spring .
A CD-ROM ( )  is a pre-pressed कॉम्पैक्ट डिस्क  which contains data .
The name is an acronym which stands for ``  कॉम्पैक्ट डिस्क read-only मेमोरी ``  .
कंप्यूटर can पढ़ा  CD-ROMs , but can not write on them .
CD-ROMs are popularly used to distribute computer  तन्त्र , सहित वीडियो खेल  and multimedia applications , though any data can be stored ( up to the capacity limit of a disc ) .
Some CDs , called enhanced  cds , थाम दोनो कंप्यूटर आंकड़ा और  audio with the latter capable of being played on a CD player , while data ( such as software or digital video ) is only usable on a computer ( such as ISO 9660 format PC CD-ROMs ) .
The Yellow  किताब is the तकनीकी  standard that defines the format of CD-ROMs .
One of a set of  color-bound किताबे कि contain the तकनीकी विशेषताएँ लिये सब cd स्वरुप , the पीला  Book , created by Sony and Philips , was the first extension of Compact Disc Digital Audio .
It  adapted the स्वरूप to थाम  any form of data .
The Chicago Blackhawks ( spelled as Black Hawks  पहले 1986 , और ज्ञात colloquially as  the Hawks ) are a professional ice hockey team based in Chicago , Illinois .
They are members of the  सेंट्रल प्रभाग of the पश्चिमी सम्मेलन  of the National Hockey League ( NHL ) .
They have won four Stanley Cup  championships चूंकि उनके founding in 1926 , सबसे  recently in 2009–10 .
The Blackhawks are one of the Original Six NHL teams , along with  the डेट्रॉयट रेड विंग्स , मॉन्ट्रियल canadiens , टोरंटो मेपल leafs , बोस्टन bruins  and New York Rangers .
Since the  ब्लैकहॉक्स have निभाई उनके घर खेल  at the United Center after having spent 65 years playing at Chicago Stadium .
Lent celebrants  carrying आउट a गली  procession during Holy Week .
The violet color is often associated with  penance और detachment .
Similar Christian penitential practice is seen in other Catholic  देशों , sometimes संबद्ध साथ mortification of the flesh  .
Granada ,  निकारागुआ  .
Lent ( Latin : Quadragesima ) is a solemn observance in the liturgical year of many  ईसाई denominations , स्थायी लिये a काल of लगभग छह सप्ताह अग्रणी  up to Easter Sunday .
In the general Latin-rite and most Western denominations Lent is taken  to चलाएं इससे राख बुधवार to maundy  Thursday ( Holy Thursday ) morning or to Easter Eve .
In  the कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर , lent lasts  until Holy Thursday , while other denominations run until Easter Eve .
The  परंपरागत purpose of lent is the तैयारी of the  believer through prayer , penance , repentance , almsgiving , and self-denial .
Its institutional purpose is heightened in the annual commemoration of Holy Week , marking the death , burial and  क़यामत of यीशु , जिससे recalls the कार्यक्रम of the बाइबल जब यीशु is crucified on शुभ शुक्रवार , जिससे तब culminates in the जश्न  on Easter Sunday of the Resurrection of Jesus Christ .
During Lent ,  अनेक of the वफादार कमिट  to fasting or giving up certain types of luxuries as a form of penitence .
The  स्टेशन of the क्रॉस , a devotional commemoration of मसीह 's  carrying the Cross and of his execution , are often observed .
Many Roman Catholic and some Protestant  चर्च हटाएँ पुष्प इससे उनके altars , जबकि crucifixes , धार्मिक मूर्तियाँ , और  other elaborate religious symbols are often veiled in violet fabrics in solemn observance of the event .
In certain pious Catholic countries , some  adherents चिह्नित the ऋतु साथ the परंपरागत abstention  from the consumption of meat .
In some countries , grand religious processions and cultural customs  हैं observed , और the वफादार attempt  to visit seven churches during Holy Week in honor of Jesus Christ heading to Mount Calvary .
Lent is traditionally described as lasting for  चालीस दिनों , in commemoration of the चालीस दिनों जिससे , according to the gospels  of Matthew , Mark and Luke , Jesus spent fasting in the desert before the beginning of his public ministry , where he endured temptation by the Devil .
However , different Christian denominations  गणना the चालीस दिनों of lent differently  .
In most Western traditions the Sundays are not  गिने as भाग of lent ; यूँ  the period from Ash Wednesday until Easter consists of 40 days when the Sundays are excluded .
However in  the रोमन कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर lent is अभी लिया to समाप्त  on Holy Thursday rather than Easter Eve , and hence lasts 38 days excluding Sundays , or 44 days in total .
This event ,  साथ साथ इसके परहेज़गारों कस्टम हैं observed  by Catholics , Lutherans , Methodists , Presbyterians , and Anglicans .
Location of Chernobyl  नाभिकीय शक्ति संयंत्र
The abandoned  नगर of pripyat साथ chernobyl  plant in the distance
Abandoned  आवास ब्लॉक  in Pripyat
The  chernobyl विपत्ति ( , chornobylska katastrofa – chornobyl प्रलय ) थी  a catastrophic nuclear accident that occurred on 26 April 1986 at the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant in Ukraine ( then officially the Ukrainian SSR ) , which was under the direct jurisdiction of the central authorities of the Soviet Union .
An explosion and  आग released विशाल quantities of रेडियोसक्रिय अणु into the माहौल , जिससे  spread over much of the western USSR and Europe .
The Chernobyl disaster is widely considered to have been the worst nuclear power plant  दुर्घटना in इतिहास , और is एक of तभी दो वर्गीकृत as a स्तर 7 इवेंट on the अंतरराष्ट्रीय नाभिकीय इवेंट स्केल ( the अन्य होने the फुकुशिमा  Daiichi nuclear disaster in 2011 ) .
The battle to contain the contamination and  avert a वृहद प्रलय ultimately शामिल over 500,000  workers and cost an estimated 18 billion rubles .
The official Soviet  casualty गिनती of 31 मौतों रै महरूम विवादित , और long-term प्रभाव ऐसे as  cancers and deformities are still being accounted for .
In grammar , a subject complement is a predicative expression that follows a  linking क्रिया ( copula ) और कि complements ( completes ) the विषय of the  sentence by either ( 1 ) renaming it or ( 2 ) describing it .
In the former case , a renaming noun  phrase ऐसे as a संज्ञा or सर्वनाम is पुकारा a predicative  nominal .
An adjective following the copula and describing the  विषय is पुकारा a predicative क्रियाशील  .
In  either मामला the predicative  complement in effect mirrors the subject .
विषय complements हैं प्रयुक्त साथ a छोटी क्लास  of verbs called linking verbs or copula , of which be is the most common .
Since copula are stative verbs , subject  complements हैं नहीं प्रभावित by कोई कार्रवाई of the क्रिया  .
Subject complements  हैं typically नहीं clause वितर्क  , nor are they clause adjuncts .
throughout the fifty-five साल इतिहास of the ग्रैमी पुरस्कार  , many significant records have been set .
This page only includes the  प्रतिस्पर्धी पुरस्कार जीती  by various artists .
This does not include the various special awards that are presented by the  नेशनल अकादमी of रिकॉर्डिंग कला और sciences ऐसे as आजीवन उपलब्धि पुरस्कार , trustees पुरस्कार , तकनीकी  Awards or Legend Awards .
The page however does include other non-performance related Grammys (  ज्ञात as the शिल्प & उत्पादन  Fields ) that may have been presented to the artist ( s ) .
Marshall Bruce Mathers  iii ( born अक्तूबर 17 , 1972 ) , बेहतर ज्ञात by उसके स्टेज नाम एमिनेम ( stylized as eminǝm ) और by  his alter ego Slim Shady , is an American rapper , record producer , songwriter and actor .
Eminem , along with his solo  करियर , is a सदस्य of उसके समूह d12 , और भी एक हाफ  of the hip hop duo Bad Meets Evil , with Royce da 5'9 '' .
Eminem is  एक of the best-selling कलाकारों in the संसार  and is the best-selling artist of the 2000s .
He has been listed and ranked as one of the  महानतम कलाकारों of सब  time by many magazines , including Rolling Stone magazine which ranked him 82nd on its list of The 100 Greatest Artists of All Time .
The  वही पत्रिका घोषित  him The King of Hip Hop .
Including his work with D12 and Bad Meets Evil , Eminem has achieved  टेन number-one एल्बम on the बिलबोर्ड  200 .
He has sold  अधिक than 100 लाख  records worldwide , including 42 million tracks and 49.1 million albums in the United States .
As  an भूमिगत rapper एमिनेम released  his debut solo album , Infinite in 1996 .
the एल्बम थी a नाजुक  and commercial failure .
He gained mainstream popularity in 1999 after the release of his  major-label डेब्यू एल्बम the  Slim Shady LP .
The LP also earned Eminem his first Grammy  पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन रैप  Album .
His next two  रिकॉर्ड the मार्शल mathers lp ,  and The Eminem Show , also won Best Rap Album Grammy Awards , making Eminem the first artist to win Best Rap Album for three consecutive LPs .
This was followed by  another स्टुडियो रिलीज in 2004 titled  Encore .
एमिनेम तब गई  on hiatus after touring in 2005 .
He released his first album in five years titled Relapse  , on may 15 , 2009  .
In 2010 , Eminem released  उसके सातवाँ स्टुडियो एल्बम  Recovery .
Recovery was  an अंतरराष्ट्रीय कामयाबी और थी नामित the बेहतरीन selling एल्बम  of 2010 worldwide , joining The Eminem Show , which was the best seller of 2002 .
Eminem won Grammy Awards for both Relapse  और रिकवरी , giving उसे a कुल of 13 grammys  in his career .
Eminem has opened other ventures ,  सहित उसके अपना रिकार्ड लेबल छायादार  Records with his manager Paul Rosenberg .
He also  रै उसके अपना रेडियो  channel , Shade 45 on Sirius XM Radio .
Eminem began an acting career in 2002 ,  जब he स्ट्रक्चर in the  hip hop drama film 8 Mile .
He won the Academy Award for  बेहतरीन असली सोंग , बनने the पहला  rap artist ever to win the award .
He has also made cameo  दिखावे in the  Wash ( 2001 ) , Funny People ( 2009 ) and the television series Entourage .
The acre is a unit of area used in the imperial and U.S.  प्रथागत प्रणालियों  .
An acre is about 40 % of a hectare – slightly  छोटी than an अमरीकी  football field .
The acre is no longer commonly used , although a few  notable अपवाद शामिल the संयुक्त राज्य , ऑस्ट्रेलिया , बर्मा  and the United Kingdom ( as of 2010 , the acre is no longer officially used in the United Kingdom , though is still used in real estate descriptions ) .
It  is स्टिल प्रयुक्त  , to some extent , in Canada .
The international  प्रतीक of the एकड़ is ac , और is पारिभाषित as 1/640 of  a square mile .
The  सबसे commonly प्रयुक्त एकड़ आज is  the international acre .
In the United States both the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय एकड़ और the थोड़ा अलग  US survey acre are in use .
The  सबसे आम उपयोग  of the acre is to measure tracts of land .
One international  एकड़ is पारिभाषित as 4046.8564224  square metres .
During  the मध्य आयु , an एकड़ थी the राशि  of land that could be plowed in one day with a yoke of oxen .
Antoine Lavoisier 's discovery of the Law of  संरक्षण of द्रव्यमान led to अनेक नई निष्कर्षों  in the 19th century .
Joseph Proust 's law of definite proportions and John Dalton 's  परमाणु सिद्धान्त branched इससे the discoveries  of Antoine Lavoisier .
Lavoisier 's quantitative  प्रयोग नाज़िल कि दहन शामिल ऑक्सीजन बल्कि than कया थी  previously thought to be phlogiston .
The law of conservation of mass , or principle of mass conservation , states that for any system closed to all transfers of  पदार्थ और उर्जा ( दोनो of जिससे have द्रव्यमान ) , the द्रव्यमान of the प्रणाली जरूर remain निरंतर over समय , as प्रणाली द्रव्यमान can नहीं बदलें मात्रा if  it is not added or removed .
Hence , the quantity of  द्रव्यमान is `` conserved ''  over time .
The  विधि implies कि द्रव्यमान can neither be निर्मित nor नष्ट , हालांकि it may be rearranged in स्पेस , or the entities संबद्ध साथ it  may be changed in form , as for example when light or physical work is transformed into particles that contribute the same mass to the system as the light or work had contributed .
The law implies ( requires ) that during any chemical reaction , nuclear reaction , or radioactive decay in an  पृथक प्रणाली , the द्रव्यमान of the reactants  or starting material must equal the mass of the products .
The concept of mass conservation is widely used in many fields such as chemistry  , यांत्रिकी , और द्रव डायनामिक्स  .
Historically , mass  संरक्षण थी खोजा in रासायनिक प्रतिक्रियाएँ by एंटोनी लाव्वाज़्ये  in the late 18th century , and was of crucial importance in the progress from alchemy to the modern natural science of chemistry .
The  closely सम्बन्धित अवधारणा of पदार्थ संरक्षण थी मिला to थाम शुभ in रसायन to ऐसे ऊँची सन्निकटन कि it  failed only for the high energies treated by the later refinements of relativity theory , but otherwise remains useful and sufficiently accurate for most chemical calculations , even in modern practice .
In special relativity ,  needed लिये सटीकता जब विशाल उर्जा हस्तांतरण between प्रणालियों is शामिल , the  difference between thermodynamically closed and isolated systems becomes important , since conservation of mass is strictly and perfectly upheld only for so-called isolated systems , i.e . those completely isolated from all exchanges with the environment .
In this circumstance , the  mass-energy equivalence प्रमेय राज्य कि द्रव्यमान संरक्षण is समतुल्य to कुल उर्जा संरक्षण ,  which is the first law of thermodynamics .
By contrast , for a thermodynamically closed system ( i.e. , one which is closed to exchanges of  पदार्थ , लकिन खोलें to exchanges of non-material उर्जा , ऐसे  as heat and work , with the surroundings ) mass is ( usually ) only approximately conserved .
The input or output of non-material energy must change the mass of the system in relativity theory , although the change is usually small , since  अपेक्षाकृत विशाल amounts of ऐसे उर्जा ( by तुलना साथ ordinary अनुभव ) carry  only a small amount of mass ( again by ordinary standards of measurement ) .
In  खास आपेक्षिकता , द्रव्यमान is नहीं परिवर्तित to उर्जा , चूंकि उर्जा in सब of  its forms always retains its equivalent amount of mass throughout any transformation or translocation into , or out of , a system .
However ,  निश्चित प्रकार of पदार्थ ( a अलग अवधारणा ) may  be converted to energy , so long as the mass of the system is unchanged in the process .
However , if such energy is removed from systems , they must lose  the द्रव्यमान कि is संबद्ध  with it .
In general relativity , mass ( and energy ) conservation in expanding volumes of space is a complex concept , subject to different  परिभाषाएं , और neither द्रव्यमान nor उर्जा is as सख्ती और बस conserved as is  the case in special relativity and in Minkowski space .
For a  चर्चा ,  see mass in general relativity .
A pig is any of the  पशु in the genus सस ,  within the Suidae family of even-toed ungulates .
Pigs include the domestic pig , its ancestor the wild boar , and  अनेक अन्य जंगली रिश्तेदारों  .
Young and  छोटी सूअर हैं ज्ञात  as piglets .
Pigs  हैं omnivores और हैं  highly social and intelligent animals .
8-inch , -inch , and  -inch फ्लॉपी  disks
8-inch , -inch  ( full height ) , and -inch drives
A 3.5-inch  diskette 's `` फ्लॉपी '' चुम्बकीय सामग्री  , removed from its housing
A floppy disk , or diskette , is a disk storage medium composed of a disk of  पतला और लचीली चुम्बकीय भंडार मीडियम , sealed in a आयताकार प्लास्टिक  carrier lined with fabric that removes dust particles .
They are read and written by a floppy  डिस्क ड्राइव ( fdd  ) .
Floppy disks , initially as media and later in and 3.5-inch ( 90 mm ) sizes , were a ubiquitous form of data storage and  एक्सचेंज इससे the mid-1970s खूब into the  first decade of the 21st century .
By 2010 , computer motherboards were rarely manufactured with floppy drive support ; `` floppies could be used as an  बाह्य usb ड्राइव , लकिन `` , 8 `` , और  non-standard drives could only be handled by old equipment .
While floppy disk drives still have some limited uses , especially with legacy industrial computer equipment , they have been superseded by data storage methods with much  वृहद क्षमता , ऐसे as usb फ्लैश ड्राइव , पोर्टेबल बाह्य मुश्किल डिस्क ड्राइव  , optical discs , memory cards , and computer networks .
An animated  आरेख of a कटर
In baseball , a cutter , or cut fastball , is a type of fastball which breaks  थोड़ा toward the पिचर 's दस्ताने पक्ष as it  reaches home plate .
इस पिच is कही between a स्लाइडर और a fastball  , as it is usually thrown faster than a slider but with more motion than a typical fastball .
Some pitchers use  a कटर as a रास्ता  to prevent hitters from expecting their regular fastballs .
A common technique used to throw a cutter is to use a  four-seam fastball पकड़ साथ the बेसबॉल  set slightly off center in the hand .
जब a बैटर is समर्थ to hit a कटर पिच , it प्रायः परिणाम  in soft contact and an easy out , due to the pitch 's movement keeping the ball away from the bat 's sweet spot .
The cutter is typically  2–5 किमी धीमा than a पिचर  's four-seam fastball .
In 2010 , the average  पिच वर्गीकृत as a कटर by pitchf/x thrown by a right-handed  pitcher was 88.6 mph ; the average four-seamer was 92.1 mph .
`` What It Takes '' is a power  ballad by अमरीकी मुश्किल चट्टान बैंड एरोस्मिथ  .
It was written by Steven Tyler , Joe Perry ,  और डेसमंड  Child .
It was released in 1990 as the third single from  एरोस्मिथ 's critically और commercially  successful 1989 album Pump .
In the video The Making of Pump , A & R man John Kalodner  वर्णित the सोंग as ``  a masterpiece '' .
During live  प्रदर्शन , टायलर गाती the पहला श्लोक a cappella  and belts out one of his signature screams right before the chorus .
The album version of the song is  followed by an बेनाम  hidden track .
Head of Odysseus from a Greek  2nd सदी bc संगमरमर समूह representing odysseus blinding  Polyphemus , found at the villa of Tiberius at Sperlonga
Detail of an ancient Roman mosaic of  ulysses in ट्यूनीशिया
Odysseus ( or ; Greek : , ) ,  भी ज्ञात by the रोमन नाम ulysses ( ; ) , थी a legendary  Greek king of Ithaca and a hero of Homer 's epic poem the Odyssey .
Odysseus also plays a key role  in होमर 's इलियड और अन्य  works in that same Epic Cycle .
Husband of Penelope , father of Telemachus , and son of Laërtes ( or Sisyphus ) and Anticlea , Odysseus is renowned for his brilliance , guile , and versatility ( polytropos ) , and is hence known by  the epithet odysseus the cunning ( mētis , or `` cunning  intelligence `` ) .
He is most famous for the ten eventful years he took to return home after the  decade-long trojan युद्ध और उसके प्रसिद्ध trojan घोड़ा ploy to कैप्चर the नगर  of Troy .
Erie is a Statutory Town in Boulder  और वेल्ड काउंटी in the u.S. राज्य  of Colorado .
The population according to the 2010 census is  18,135 और थी अंकित as 6,291  at the 2000 census .
The  कस्बा of erie is स्तिथ बस वेस्ट of i-25 लिये  easy access to I-70 , Denver International Airport and Colorado 's entire Front Range .
Erie 's Planning Area spans 48 square miles , extending from the north side of State Highway 52  दक्षिण to राज्य राजमार्ग 7 , और between us 287 on the वेस्ट और अंतरराज्यीय 25  to the east .
Erie is approximately 35 minutes from Denver International Airport , 25  मिनट्स to डेनवर और 20 मिनट्स  from Boulder .
The Board of Trustees serves as the legislative and governing body of the Town of Erie and is  जिम्मेदार लिये establishing कस्बा नीतियों  and goals .
The Board has the authority to adopt laws , ordinances and resolutions as needed to conduct the business of the Town , and by ordinance may enter into contracts or  intergovernmental समझौतों to furnish , प्राप्त सेवाएं or to provide लिये सहकारी  service delivery .
Appointed by and serving at the pleasure of the Board of Trustees , the Town Administrator is  the मुख्य ऑपरेटिंग और प्रशासनिक अधिकारी of the कस्बा और is जिम्मेदार लिये providing पेशेवर  leadership in the administration and execution of policies and objectives formulated by the Board .
The mission of the Erie Police Department is to  communicate और कार्य साथ the जातियाँ to maintain a सुरक्षित पर्यावरण  , prevent crime and enforce the law , while protecting the rights of all .
Erie Municipal Airport ( EIK ) is owned and operated by the Town of Erie and is strategically located in the  denver-boulder महानगर क्षेत्रफल on कोलोराडो राजमार्ग 7 , a छोटी  over three miles west of Interstate 25 .
The main runway is concrete paved and  4,700 फीट long  .
the is a घर वीडियो खेल कंसोल  produced by Sony Computer Entertainment .
It is the  successor to the प्लेस्टेशन  2 , as part of the PlayStation series .
The PlayStation 3 competes with  microsoft 's एक्सबॉक्स 360 और निन्टेंडो 's वी as भाग  of the seventh generation of video game consoles .
It  थी पहला released on नवम्बर 11 , 2006  , in Japan , with international markets following shortly thereafter .
The console was  पहला officially घोषित  at E3 2005 .
Originally set for a spring 2006 release date ,  it थी विलम्बित अनेक टाइम्स जबतक आखिरकार hitting  stores at the end of the year .
It was the first and currently only console to use Blu-ray Disc  as इसके प्राथमिक भंडार मीडियम  .
Major features of the console include its unified online gaming service , the PlayStation Network  , और इसके कनेक्टिविटी साथ the प्लेस्टेशन पोर्टेबल और प्लेस्टेशन वीटा , in सितंबर  2009 the updated PlayStation 3 Slim , was released .
This Slim is lighter and thinner than the  असली संस्करण , हालांकि it lacks प्लेस्टेशन 2 पीछे  compatibility ( removed on later original models ) , but notably featured a re-designed logo and marketing design .
As of November 4 , 2012  , 70 लाख प्लेस्टेशन 3s have  been sold worldwide .
Its  successor , प्लेस्टेशन  4 , is set for a Q4 2013 release .
Salvador Domingo Felipe Jacinto Dalí i Domènech , 1st Marqués de Dalí de Pubol ( May 11 , 1904January 23 , 1989 ) , known as Salvador Dalí ( ) , was a  prominent स्पेनी surrealist चित्रकार born in figueres  , Spain .
Dalí was a  skilled draftsman , बेहतरीन ज्ञात लिये the striking  and bizarre images in his surrealist work .
His painterly  कौशल हैं प्रायः  attributed to the influence of Renaissance masters .
His  best-known कार्य , the हठ  of Memory , was completed in 1931 .
Dalí 's expansive artistic repertoire included film , sculpture , and  छायाचित्र , in सहयोग साथ a दायरा of  artists in a variety of media .
Dalí attributed his `` love of  सबकुछ कि is gilded और excessive , my जुनून लिये लक्ज़री और my प्रेम  of oriental clothes '' to a self-styled `` Arab lineage '' , claiming that his ancestors were descended from the Moors .
Dalí was highly imaginative , and also enjoyed  indulging in असामान्य और वैभवशाली  behavior .
His eccentric manner and attention-grabbing public actions sometimes drew more  ध्यान than उसके कलाकृति , to the dismay of those जो आयोजित उसके कार्य  in high esteem , and to the irritation of his critics .
Philosopher Plato  by silanion
The humanities are academic disciplines that study human culture , using methods that are  primarily विश्लेषणात्मक , नाजुक , or सट्टे , और having a significant ऐतिहासिक तत्व , as विशिष्ट इससे  the mainly empirical approaches of the natural sciences .
The humanities include ancient and modern languages ,  साहित्य , दर्शनशास्त्र , धर्म , और विज़ुअल और performing कला  such as music and theatre .
The humanities that are also regarded as social sciences include history , anthropology , area studies ,  संचार अध्ययन , सांस्कृतिक अध्ययन , विधि  , economics and linguistics .
Scholars working in the humanities are  sometimes वर्णित as `` humanists  '' .
however , कि पद भी describes the philosophical स्थिति  of humanism , which some `` antihumanist `` scholars in the humanities reject .
Some secondary schools offer humanities  वर्ग , प्रायः consisting of अंग्रेज़ी साहित्य  , global studies , and art .
Human disciplines like history , cultural  मानवशास्त्र और मनोविश्लेषण पढ़ाई विषय matters to जिससे the प्रायोगिक  method does not apply , and they have access instead to the comparative method and comparative research .
The 2005 Blue Room  क्रिसमस पेड़
the श्वेत हाउस क्रिसमस पेड़ , भी ज्ञात as the ब्लू रूम  Christmas Tree , is the official indoor Christmas tree at the residence of the President of the United States , the White House .
The first indoor Christmas tree was installed in the White House sometime  in the 19th सदी ( वहीँ हैं varying दावा as to the सटीक साल ) और  since 1961 the tree has had a themed motif at the discretion of the First Lady of the United States .
The President of the United States of America ( POTUS ) is the head of  राज्य और सिर of सरकारी of the संयुक्त  States .
The president leads the  कार्यपालिका शाखा of the संघीय सरकारी और  is the commander-in-chief of the United States Armed Forces .
Article II of the U.S. Constitution vests the executive power of the United  राज्य in the अध्यक्ष और आरोप उसे साथ the निष्पादन of संघीय विधि , alongside the जिम्मेदारी of  appointing federal executive , diplomatic , regulatory , and judicial officers , and concluding treaties with foreign powers , with the advice and consent of the Senate .
The president is further empowered to grant federal  pardons और reprieves ,  and to convene and adjourn either or both houses of Congress under extraordinary circumstances .
Since the founding of the United States , the power of the president and the federal government have grown substantially and each modern president , despite possessing no formal legislative powers beyond signing or vetoing congressionally passed bills , is largely responsible for  dictating the विधान कार्यसूची of उसके पार्टी और the विदेशी और घरेलू नीति  of the United States .
The president is  अक्सर वर्णित as the सबसे  powerful person in the world .
The president is indirectly elected by the people  through the चुनावी कॉलेज to a four-year  term , and is one of only two nationally elected federal officers , the other being the Vice President of the United States .
The  twenty-second amendment , अपनाया in 1951 , prohibits anyone  from ever being elected to the presidency for a third full term .
It also prohibits a person from being elected to the presidency more than once if that person previously had served as president ,  or एक्टिंग अध्यक्ष , लिये अधिक than दो  years of another person 's term as president .
In all , 43  individuals have परोसा 55 four-year  terms .
On  जनवरी 20 , 2009 , बराक ओबामा became the  44th and current president .
On  नवम्बर 6 , 2012 , he थी re-elected  and is scheduled to serve until January 20 , 2017 .
Senses are physiological capacities of  जीवों कि provide आंकड़ा  for perception .
The senses and their operation , classification , and theory are overlapping topics studied by a variety of fields , most notably  neuroscience , संज्ञानात्मक मनोविज्ञान ( or संज्ञानात्मक  science ) , and philosophy of perception .
The nervous system has a specific sensory system or organ ,  समर्पित to प्रत्येक भाव .
इंसानो have a multitude  of senses .
Sight ( ophthalmoception ) , hearing ( audioception ) , taste ( gustaoception ) ,  महकते ( olfacoception or olfacception ) , और टच (  tactioception ) are the five traditionally recognized .
While the ability to detect other stimuli beyond those governed by  the परंपरागत होश exists , सहित तापमान ( thermoception ) , kinesthetic भाव ( proprioception ) , पीड़ा ( nociception ) , संतुलन ( equilibrioception  ) , acceleration ( kinesthesioception ) , and various internal stimuli ( e.g . the different chemoreceptors for detecting salt and carbon dioxide concentrations in the blood ) , only a small number of these can safely be classified as separate senses in and of themselves .
What constitutes a sense is a matter of some debate ,  अग्रणी to कठिनाइयों  in defining what exactly a sense is .
Animals also have receptors to sense the world around  उन्हें , साथ डिग्री of काबिलियत varying greatly between  species .
Humans have a  comparatively कमजोर भाव of महकते  , while some animals may lack one or more of the traditional five senses .
Some animals may also intake and  interpret संवेदी stimuli in बहुत अलग तरीके  .
Some species of animals are able to sense the world in a way that humans can not ,  साथ कुछ प्रजाति समर्थ to भाव विद्युत  and magnetic fields , and detect water pressure and currents .
Spiders ( order Araneae ) are air-breathing arthropods that have eight legs and  chelicerae साथ fangs कि इंजेक्ट  venom .
They are the largest order of arachnids and rank seventh in total species  विविधता among सब अन्य समूह of जीवों  .
Spiders are found worldwide on every  महाद्वीप मगर लिये अंटार्कटिक , और  have become established in nearly every habitat with the exception of air and sea colonization .
As of 2008 , at least  43,678 मकड़ी प्रजाति , और 109 परिवारों have महरूम अंकित by taxonomists ; however , वहीँ रै महरूम  confusion within the scientific community as to how all these families should be classified , as evidenced by the over 20 different classifications that have been proposed since 1900 .
Anatomically , spiders differ from other arthropods in that the usual body segments  हैं fused into दो tagmata , the cephalothorax और उदर , और joined by a छोटी  , cylindrical pedicel .
Unlike insects ,  मकड़ियों do नहीं have antennae  .
In all except the most primitive group , the Mesothelae , spiders have the most centralized nervous systems of all arthropods ,  as सब उनके ganglia हैं fused into एक द्रव्यमान in the cephalothorax  .
नापसंद सबसे arthropods , मकड़ियों have no extensor  muscles in their limbs and instead extend them by hydraulic pressure .
Their abdomens bear appendages that have been  परिवर्धित into spinnerets  that extrude silk from up to six types of silk glands within their abdomen .
मकड़ी webs vary widely in आकार  , shape and the amount of sticky thread used .
It now appears that the spiral orb web may be one  of the earliest फ़ॉर्म , और मकड़ियों कि उपज उलझे  cobwebs are more abundant and diverse than orb-web spiders .
Spider-like arachnids with silk-producing spigots appeared in  the devonian काल परिचय , लकिन  these animals apparently lacked spinnerets .
True spiders have been found in Carboniferous rocks from , and are very similar  to the सबसे आदिम surviving  order , the Mesothelae .
The main groups of modern spiders , Mygalomorphae and Araneomorphae , first  appeared in the triassic काल  , before .
A herbivorous  प्रजाति , bagheera kiplingi , थी वर्णित in 2008 , लकिन सब अन्य  known species are predators , mostly preying on insects and on other spiders , although a few large species also take birds and lizards .
Spiders use a wide  दायरा of रणनीति to कैप्चर शिकार : trapping it  in sticky webs , lassoing it with sticky bolas , mimicking the prey to avoid detection , or running it down .
Most detect prey mainly by sensing vibrations , but the active hunters have acute vision , and hunters of the genus Portia show signs of intelligence in their  चुनाव of tactics और क्षमता  to develop new ones .
मकड़ियों ' गुस्ताखी हैं too सीमित to लो solids , और वे liquidize उनके  food by flooding it with digestive enzymes and grinding it with the bases of their pedipalps , as they do not have true jaws .
Male spiders identify themselves by a variety of  जटिल प्रेमालाप संस्कार to avoid  being eaten by the females .
Males of most species survive a few matings ,  सीमित मुख्यतः by उनके छोटी जीवन spans .
Females weave silk egg-cases , each of which may  contain सैंकड़ों of अंडे  .
Females of many species care for their young , for example by carrying  उन्हें around or by sharing खाना साथ  them .
A minority of species are  सोशल , भवन सांप्रदायिक webs  that may house anywhere from a few to 50,000 individuals .
Social behavior ranges from precarious toleration , as in the widow  मकड़ियों , to co-operative शिकार और food-sharing  .
हालांकि सबसे मकड़ियों सजीव लिये at सबसे दो  years , tarantulas and other mygalomorph spiders can live up to 25 years in captivity .
While the venom of a few species is dangerous to humans , scientists are now researching the  उपयोग of मकड़ी venom in आयुर्विज्ञान और as non-polluting pesticides  .
Spider silk provides a combination of lightness , strength and elasticity that is superior  to कि of सिंथेटिक सामग्री , और मकड़ी रेशा जीनों have महरूम  inserted into mammals and plants to see if these can be used as silk factories .
As a result  of उनके चौड़ी दायरा of व्यवहार , मकड़ियों have become आम प्रतीकों in आर्ट और mythology  symbolizing various combinations of patience , cruelty and creative powers .
Grey  's anatomy is an अमरीकी टेलीविज़न  medical drama that premiered on the American Broadcasting Company ( ABC ) , as a mid-season replacement on March 27 , 2005 .
The series has aired nine seasons , and focuses  on the fictional जीवनदान of सर्जिकल interns और निवासियों  as they gradually evolve into seasoned doctors , while trying to maintain personal lives .
The show 's premise originated with Shonda Rhimes , who serves as an executive producer ,  साथ साथ बेट्सी beers , चिह्नित गॉर्डन , क्रिस्टा vernoff ,  Rob Corn , Mark Wilding , and Allan Heinberg .
The series was created  to be racially विविध , utilizing  a color-blind casting technique .
It is primarily filmed in  लॉस एंजिल्स , कैलिफ़ोर्निया  .
The series ' protagonist is Dr.  मेरेडिथ धूसर ( एलेन pompeo ) , जो originally is स्वीकृत  into the residency program at the fictional Seattle Grace Hospital .
Meredith is  आबंटित to कार्य अंतर्गत dr. मिरांडा बेली ( चन्द्रा विल्सन ) , साथ साथ dr. क्रिस्टीना यांग ( सैंड्रा oh  ) , Dr. George O'Malley ( T. R. Knight ) , Dr. Izzie Stevens ( Katherine Heigl ) , and Dr. Alex Karev ( Justin Chambers ) .
following o'malley 's मौत और स्टीवंस ' प्रस्थान , the हॉस्पिटल 's विलय साथ रहमत वेस्ट brings in dr. जैक्सन  Avery ( Jesse Williams ) and Dr. April Kepner ( Sarah Drew ) , in the sixth season .
The surgical  wing is primarily पर्यवेक्षित by dr. रिचर्ड webber (  James Pickens , Jr. ) , who is eventually replaced by Dr. Derek Shepherd ( Patrick Dempsey ) , and later Dr. Owen Hunt ( Kevin McKidd ) .
Dr. Preston Burke ( Isaiah Washington ) departs at the conclusion of the third season , and is replaced by  dr. एरिका hahn ( ब्रुक स्मिथ ) , जो पत्ते the दिखाएँ दौरान the पांचवां ऋतु , और बाद dr. टेडी altman ( किम raver  ) , who departs at the end of the eighth season .
Introduced in the second season is Dr. Addison Montgomery ( Kate Walsh ) , who  पत्ते the दिखाएँ at the समाप्त of the तीसरा ऋतु ,  in order to launch her own spin-off medical drama Private Practice .
Dr. Callie Torres ( Sara Ramirez ) and Dr. Mark Sloan ( Eric Dane )  भी डालें the दिखाएँ in the दूसरी ऋतु , जबकि the latter मरता in the प्रीमियर  of the ninth season .
Meredith 's half-sister , Dr. Lexie Grey ( Chyler Leigh ) , appears from season three and  मरता at the  end of season eight .
dr. एरिज़ोना रॉबिन्स ( जेसिका capshaw  ) is given series regular status at the beginning of the sixth season .
Grey 's Anatomy is the  highest-rated नाटक in the कुंजी  18–49 demographic .
Previously  among the overall top-ten रेटेड shows in the संयुक्त राज्य , धूसर 's anatomy  has been well received by critics .
Considered  an प्रभाव on संस्कृति , the श्रेणी रै प्राप्त numerous पुरस्कार  , and has also been included in various critics ' top ten lists .
The  दिखाएँ रै उत्पादित अनेक specials , as खूब as वितरित  all seasons to DVD , and released a collection of merchandise .
In  2012 , धूसर 's anatomy थी नामित the fifth-highest आय कमाई दिखाएँ  , in terms of advertising per half-hour .
On May 11 , 2012 , the  श्रेणी थी नवीनीकृत  for a ninth season , which premiered on September 27 , 2012 .
Schizophrenia ( or ) is a mental disorder  characterized by a विश्लेषण of विचार प्रक्रियाओं और by  a deficit of typical emotional responses .
Common symptoms include auditory hallucinations , paranoid or  विचित्र delusions , or disorganized वाक और सोच , और it  is accompanied by significant social or occupational dysfunction .
The onset of symptoms typically occurs in young  adulthood , साथ a वैश्विक आजीवन  prevalence of about 0.3–0.7 % .
Diagnosis is based on observed  बर्ताव और the रोगी 's  reported experiences .
Genetics , early environment , neurobiology , and psychological and social processes appear to be  महत्वपूर्ण contributory कारकों ; कुछ recreational और नुस्खा दवाएँ appear to कारण  or worsen symptoms .
Current research is focused on the role of  neurobiology , हालांकि no सिंगल पृथक सशुल्क  cause has been found .
The many possible combinations of symptoms have triggered debate about  whether the निदान represents a सिंगल विकार or  a number of discrete syndromes .
Despite the etymology of the term from the Greek roots  skhizein ( σχίζειν , `` to विभाजित '' ) और phrēn , phren- ( φρήν , φρεν- ; `` दिमाग '' ) , schizophrenia करता नहीं imply a `` विभाजित व्यक्तित्व ''  , or `` multiple personality disorder '' ( which is known these days as dissociative identity disorder ) —a condition with which it is often confused in public perception .
Rather , the term means a `` splitting of mental functions '' , because of the  symptomatic प्रस्तुतीकरण of  the illness .
The mainstay of treatment is antipsychotic medication ,  जिससे primarily दबा  dopamine ( and sometimes serotonin ) receptor activity .
मनोचिकित्सा और वोकेशनल और सोशल पुनर्वास  are also important in treatment .
In more serious  cases—where वहीँ is रिस्क to स्वः और others— involuntary  hospitalization may be necessary , although hospital stays are now shorter and less frequent than they once were .
The disorder is thought mainly to affect cognition , but it also usually contributes to chronic problems  साथ बर्ताव और जज्बात  .
People with schizophrenia are likely to have additional ( comorbid ) conditions , including major depression  और चिंता विकार ; the आजीवन occurrence of पदार्थ  use disorder is almost 50 % .
Social problems , such as long-term  बेरोजगारी , गरीबी , और homelessness  are common .
The average life expectancy of  लोगों साथ the विकार is 12 to 15 सालो  less than those without , the result of increased physical health problems and a higher suicide rate ( about 5 % ) .
Paul Leslie Snider ( April 15 , 1951–August 14 , 1980 ) was the estranged husband and  मैनेजर of प्लेबॉय मॉडल डोरोथी stratten  , whom he murdered before killing himself the same day .
The Epic of Gilgamesh , an epic poem from Mesopotamia , is amongst the earliest surviving works  of साहित्य  .
The literary history of Gilgamesh begins with five independent Sumerian poems  परिचय 'bilgamesh ' ( sumerian लिये gilgamesh  ) , king of Uruk .
Four of  ये यहूद प्रयुक्त as सोर्स सामग्री  for a combined epic in Akkadian .
This first combined epic , known as the `` Old Babylonian '' version , dates to the 18th century BC and is  titled बाद इसके incipit , shūtur एली  sharrī ( `` Surpassing All Other Kings '' ) .
Only a few  fragments of it  have survived .
The later `` Standard Babylonian '' version dates  इससे the 13th to the 10th सदियां bc  and bears the incipit Sha naqba īmuru ( `` He who Saw the Deep '' ) .
Fragments of  लगभग दो तिहाई  of this longer , twelve-tablet version have been recovered .
Some of  the बेहतरीन नक़ल यहूद खोजा in the पुस्तकालयों तबाह  of the 7th-century BC Assyrian king Ashurbanipal .
The story  centers on a दोस्ती  between Gilgamesh and Enkidu .
Enkidu is a wild man created by the  देवताओं as gilgamesh 's बराबर  to distract him from oppressing the people of Uruk .
Together , they journey to the Cedar  पहाड़ to शिकस्त humbaba , इसके  monstrous guardian .
Later  वे मार the सांड of स्वर्ग , जिससे  the goddess Ishtar sends to punish Gilgamesh for spurning her advances .
As a  दंड लिये ये क्रियाएँ  , the gods sentence Enkidu to death .
The second half of the epic focuses on Gilgamesh 's  तकलीफ at enkidu 's मौत , और उसके क्वेस्ट  for immortality .
In order to learn the secret of  अनन्त जीवन , gilgamesh undertakes a long और  perilous journey .
He  learns कि `` the जीवन  that you are seeking you will never find .
When the gods created man they allotted to him  मौत , लकिन जीवन वे retained in उनके अपना keeping  . ''
This quote was originally attributed to Siduri in the Old Babylonian version of the epic , and then  attributed to the अमर बाढ़ नायिका utnapishtim in the अक्कादी संस्करण  of the epic .
Nevertheless , Gilgamesh 's fame lived on after his death , because of his great building  प्रोजेक्ट , और उसके खाता of कया utnapishtim बताई उसे happened दौरान the  flood .
The story  रै महरूम अनूदित into अनेक अलग भाषाएं ,  and Gilgamesh has since become adapted in works of popular fiction .
A eukaryote ( or ) is an organism whose cells contain complex structures  enclosed भीतर  membranes .
eukaryotes may अधिक formally be referred  to as the taxon Eukarya or Eukaryota .
The defining membrane-bound structure that sets  eukaryotic कोशिकाएं अलावा इससे prokaryotic कोशिकाएं is the केंद्रक  , or nuclear envelope , within which the genetic material is carried .
The  उपस्थिति of a केंद्रक देता eukaryotes उनके नाम , जिससे आता  from the Greek ( eu , `` good '' ) and ( karyon , `` nut '' or `` kernel '' ) .
Most eukaryotic  कोशिकाएं भी contain अन्य membrane-bound organelles  such as mitochondria , chloroplasts and the Golgi apparatus .
All large complex organisms are eukaryotes ,  सहित पशु , पौधे और fungi  .
The group also includes many  एककोशिकीय  organisms .
Cell division in eukaryotes is  अलग इससे कि in जीवों  without a nucleus ( Prokaryote ) .
It involves separating the  duplicated गुणसूत्रों , through  movements directed by microtubules .
There are two types of  प्रभाग प्रक्रियाओं  .
In mitosis , one cell divides to  उपज दो genetically  identical cells .
In meiosis , which is required in sexual reproduction ,  एक द्विगुणित कोशिका ( having दो उदाहरण of प्रत्येक chromosome , एक इससे प्रत्येक जनक ) undergoes recombination of प्रत्येक जोड़ी of parental  chromosomes , and then two stages of cell division , resulting in four haploid cells ( gametes ) .
Each gamete has  बस एक पूरक of गुणसूत्रों , प्रत्येक a  unique mix of the corresponding pair of parental chromosomes .
eukaryota appears to be monophyletic  , and so makes up one of the three domains of life .
The two other domains ,  जीवाणु और आर्किया , हैं prokaryotes  and have none of the above features .
Eukaryotes represent a tiny minority of all living things ; even in a human body  वहीँ हैं 10 टाइम्स अधिक  microbes than human cells .
However , due to their much larger size their collective  विश्वव्यापी बायोमास is अनुमानित at परिचय बराबर  to that of prokaryotes .
They are considered to  have पहला विकसित लगभग  1.6–2.1 billion years ago .
The use of Internet services or software with Internet access to defraud victims or to otherwise take advantage of them , for example by  चोरी निजी सूचना , जिससे can भी सीसे to पहचान चोरी  .
A very common form of  अंतरजाल धोखाधड़ी is the वितरण  of rogue security software .
Internet services can be used to present fraudulent solicitations to  prospective पीड़ितों , to conduct बेईमान ट्रांजेक्शन , or to संचारण the  proceeds of fraud to financial institutions or to others connected with the scheme .
Internet fraud can occur in chat rooms ,  ईमेल , संदेश फलक , or on  websites .
The International Security  सहायता फ़ोर्स ( isaf ) is a नाटो -led सुरक्षा मिशन in अफगानिस्तान  that was established by the United Nations Security Council in December 2001 by Resolution 1386 , as envisaged by the Bonn Agreement .
Its main purpose is to  ट्रैन the अफगान नेशनल सुरक्षा शक्तियां ( ansf ) और assist अफगानिस्तान in पुनर्निर्माण कुंजी सरकारी संस्थानों  but is also engaged in the 2001-present war with insurgent groups .
ISAF was initially charged with  securing काबुल और surrounding क्षेत्रों इससे the तालिबान , al qaeda और factional warlords , so as to allow लिये the स्थापना  of the Afghan Transitional Administration headed by Hamid Karzai .
In October 2003 , the UN Security Council authorized the expansion of the ISAF mission throughout  अफगानिस्तान , और isaf subsequently विस्तारित the मिशन in चार प्रमुख चरण over the पूरे of  the country .
From 2006 to 2011 , ISAF had been involved  in increasingly अधिक intensive कॉम्बैट परिचालन in  southern and eastern Afghanistan .
Troop contributors include from  the संयुक्त राज्य , संयुक्त किंगडम  , NATO member states and a number of other countries .
The intensity of the combat faced by  contributing राष्ट्र varies greatly , साथ the संयुक्त राज्य , संयुक्त किंगडम , और कनाडा sustaining the  majority of casualties in intensive combat operations , with other contributors sustaining significantly less .
As of early 2010  , वहीँ यहूद at तनिक 700 सैन्य bases  inside Afghanistan but more were expected to be built in the coming years .
About 400 of these were used by American‐led  नाटो शक्तियां और 300 by ansf .
Cocaine ( benzoylmethylecgonine ) ( INN ) is a crystalline  tropane एल्कलॉएड कि is प्राप्त  from the leaves of the coca plant .
The name comes from `` coca '' and the alkaloid suffix -ine ,  forming कोका .
It is a stimulant , an  भूख suppressant  , and a topical anesthetic .
Biologically , cocaine acts as a serotonin–norepinephrine–dopamine reuptake inhibitor , also  ज्ञात as a ट्रिपल reuptake inhibitor ( ट्राई )  .
It is  addictive क्युकी of इसके प्रभाव  on the mesolimbic reward pathway .
Unlike most molecules , cocaine has pockets  साथ दोनो ऊँची hydrophilic और lipophilic दक्षता ,  violating the rule of hydrophilic-lipophilic balance .
This causes it to cross the blood–brain barrier far better than other psychoactive chemicals  और may भी induce blood-brain अवरोध  breakdown .
It is illegal to possess ,  उपज , or वितरित कोका लिये non-medicinal  and non-government-sanctioned purposes in almost every country .
Whole beef  tri-tip rump ,  roasted medium rare
The tri-tip is a cut of  बीफ इससे the नीचे  sirloin primal cut .
It is a small  triangular मांसपेशी , प्रायः 1.5 to 2.5 पाउंड .  ( 675 to 1,150g ) per side of beef .
the वैज्ञानिक नाम of इस मांसपेशी is प्रदिश fasciae latae , inserted in the fascia lata , the संयोजी ऊतक covering the quadriceps  femoris , also called quadriceps extensor , a group of four muscles which in turn insert in the patella , or knee cap of the animal .
Willmar is a city in , and the county  सीट of , kandiyohi काउंटी , मिनेसोटा  , United States .
The population was  19,610 at the 2010  census .
Willmar has been assigned ZIP code 56201 by the United  राज्य डाक सेवा  .
U.S .  रूट 12 और 71 और मिनेसोटा राज्य  Highways 23 and 40 are four of the main routes in the city .
The  स्पीकर of the संयुक्त राज्य हाउस of प्रतिनिधि  ( or Speaker of the House ) is the presiding officer of the chamber .
The office  थी स्थापित in 1789 by आलेख i , खण्ड 2 of the संयुक्त राज्य  Constitution , which states in part , `` The House of Representatives shall chuse their Speaker ... ''
The current Speaker is John  boehner , a रिपब्लिकन जो represents  Ohio 's 8th congressional district .
the संविधान करता नहीं आवश्यकता कि the स्पीकर be a सदस्य of  Congress , but no non-member has ever been elected to the office .
The  स्पीकर is दूसरी in the संयुक्त राज्य अध्यक्षीय लकीर of उत्तराधिकार  , after the Vice President and ahead of the President pro tempore of the U.S. Senate .
Unlike some Westminster system parliaments , in which the office  of स्पीकर is माना non-partisan , in the संयुक्त राज्य the स्पीकर of the हाउस is a नेतृत्व स्थिति  and the office-holder actively works to set the majority party 's legislative agenda .
The  स्पीकर प्रायः करता नहीं personally preside over debates , बजाय delegating  the duty to members of the House from the majority party .
Aside from duties relating to heading the House and the majority political party , the Speaker also performs  प्रशासनिक और प्रक्रियात्मक कृत्यों , और represents उसके  or her Congressional district .
A bicycle frame is the main component of a bicycle , on to  जिससे पहियों और अन्य  components are fitted .
The modern and most common frame design for an upright bicycle is based on the safety bicycle , and  consists of दो त्रिकोण , a प्रमुख त्रिभुज और a युग्म पश्च  triangle .
This is known as the  डायमंड फ़्रेम  .
Frames are required to be strong , stiff and light ,  जिससे वे do by combining अलग सामग्री  and shapes .
`` Simple gravity  लोलक '' मॉडल assumes  no friction or air resistance .
An exemplar animation of a pendulum  प्रर्दशित the गति  and acceleration vectors
A pendulum is a weight suspended  इससे a so  that it can swing freely .
When a pendulum is displaced sideways from its resting equilibrium position , it is subject to a  restoring फ़ोर्स due to गम्भीरता कि होगा accelerate it वापस toward the संतुलन स्थिति  .
When released , the restoring force combined with the pendulum 's mass causes it to oscillate about  the संतुलन स्थिति , सुहाने वापस और forth  .
The time for one complete cycle  , a बाएँ झूले और  a right swing , is called the period .
A pendulum  swings साथ a विशिष्ट काल जिससे  depends ( mainly ) on its length .
From its  डिस्कवरी around 1602 by गैलीलियो गैलिली the नियमित गति of pendulums थी  used for timekeeping , and was the world 's most accurate timekeeping technology until the 1930s .
Pendulums are  प्रयुक्त to विनियमित लोलक घड़ियाँ , और  are used in scientific instruments such as accelerometers and seismometers .
Historically they were used as gravimeters to  माप the त्वरण  of gravity in geophysical surveys , and even as a standard of length .
The word 'pendulum ' is new  लैटिन , इससे the लैटिन pendulus , अर्थ  'hanging ' .
The simple gravity pendulum is an  idealized गणितीय मॉडल of a लोलक  .
इस is a वज़न ( or bob ) on  the end of a massless cord suspended from a , without friction .
When given an initial push , it will swing back  और forth at a निरंतर आयाम .
Real pendulums are subject to friction  और एयर खीचें , so the आयाम of उनके  swings declines .
The First Battle of Bull Run , also known as First Manassas ( the name used by  confederate शक्तियां ) , थी लड़ा on जुलाई 21 , 1861 , in प्रिंस विलियम काउंटी  , Virginia , near the city of Manassas .
it थी the पहला प्रमुख जमीन  battle of the American Civil War .
Just months after the start of the war at Fort Sumter , the Northern public clamored for a march against the  confederate पूंजी of रिचमंड , वर्जिनिया , जिससे वे अपेक्षित to लाओ an जल्दी समाप्त to the विद्रोह  .
Yielding to political pressure , Brig . Gen. Irvin McDowell led his unseasoned Union Army across Bull  चलाएं विरूद्ध the बराबर अनुभवहीन confederate  Army of Brig . Gen. P. G. T. Beauregard camped near Manassas Junction .
McDowell 's ambitious plan for a surprise flank attack on the Confederate left was poorly executed by his officers and men ; nevertheless ,  the confederates , जो था महरूम नियोजन to आक्रमण the संघ बाएँ  flank , found themselves at an initial disadvantage .
Confederate reinforcements under Brig . Gen.  जोसेफ E. johnston arrived इससे the shenandoah घाटी  by railroad and the course of the battle quickly changed .
A brigade of Virginians under a relatively unknown colonel from  the वर्जिनिया सैन्य संस्थान , थामस J. जैक्सन , stood उनके मैदान  and Jackson received his famous nickname , `` Stonewall Jackson '' .
The Confederates then launched a strong counterattack , and as the Union troops began withdrawing under fire , many panicked and it  turned into a rout as mcdowell 's मेन frantically भागा बगैर अनुक्रम in the दिशा of वॉशिंगटन  , D.C .
Both armies were sobered by the fierce fighting and many casualties , and realized  the युद्ध थी going to be much  longer and bloodier than either had anticipated .
Thunderstorm  निकट garajau , madeira
Weather is  the राज्य of the माहौल , to the उपाधि कि it is hot or ठंडा ,  wet or dry , calm or stormy , clear or cloudy .
Most weather  phenomena occur in the क्षोभमण्डल  , just below the stratosphere .
Weather  generally refers to day-to-day तापमान और वर्षण कार्यकलाप  , whereas climate is the term for the average atmospheric conditions over longer periods of time .
When used without qualification , `` weather '' is  समझा to be the मौसम of  Earth .
Weather is driven by air pressure ( temperature  और नमी ) मतभेद  between one place and another .
These pressure and temperature differences can occur due to the sun angle at any particular  स्पॉट , जिससे varies by अक्षांश  from the tropics .
The strong  तापमान कंट्रास्ट between ध्रुवीय  and tropical air gives rise to the jet stream .
Weather systems in the mid-latitudes ,  ऐसे as extratropical cyclones , हैं caused by instabilities  of the jet stream flow .
Because the Earth 's axis is tilted relative to its  कक्षीय प्लेन , धूप is घटना at अलग कोण  at different times of the year .
On Earth 's surface , temperatures usually range ±40  °c ( −40 °f to 100 °f  ) annually .
Over thousands of years , changes in Earth 's orbit affect the amount and distribution of solar energy  प्राप्त by the धरती और influence long-term जलवायु  and global climate change .
Surface  तापमान मतभेद in फेरे कारण  pressure differences .
Higher  altitudes हैं कूलर than निम्नतर  altitudes due to differences in compressional heating .
Weather forecasting is the application of science and technology to  भविष्यवाणी the राज्य of the माहौल लिये a भविष्य  time and a given location .
The atmosphere is a chaotic system , so small changes to one part of the system  can grow to have विशाल प्रभाव on the  system as a whole .
Human attempts to control the weather have occurred throughout human history , and there is  प्रमाण कि इंसान कार्यकलाप ऐसे as कृषि  and industry has inadvertently modified weather patterns .
Studying how the weather works on other planets has been  सहायक in समझना  how weather works on Earth .
A famous landmark in the Solar  प्रणाली , बृहस्पति 's ग्रेट रेड स्पॉट , is an  anticyclonic storm known to have existed for at least 300 years .
However  , मौसम is नहीं सीमित  to planetary bodies .
A star 's corona is constantly being lost to space , creating what is  essentially a बहुत पतला  atmosphere throughout the Solar System .
The movement  of द्रव्यमान ejected इससे  the Sun is known as the solar wind .
Katy Perry is an  अमरीकी singer-songwriter इससे  Santa Barbara , California .
वो हस्ताक्षरित साथ  Capitol Records .
Perry has released three studio albums , including her debut  ईसाई प्रयत्न कैटी हडसन , एक of the लड़कों  , and Teenage Dream .
Perry 's mainstream career was kicked off with the massive  चार्ट कामयाबी of उसके  debut single `` I Kissed a Girl `` .
During her career , Perry has been  मनोनीत लिये numerous प्रमुख म्यूज़िक  awards , primarily for Teenage Dream and One of the Boys .
The following is a list of  sovereign राज्य और territories जहाँ अंग्रेज़ी is an  official language or language of government .
In 2012 ,  वहीँ यहूद  88 states in total ( 60 sovereign states and 28 non-sovereign states ) .
In many  देशों अंग्रेज़ी is the प्रबल भाषा  , but does not have official status .
In Australia , English is spoken by the vast majority of the population and is the only language  प्रयुक्त in सरकारी संस्थानों , लकिन ऑस्ट्रेलिया करता नहीं have an  official language .
The case is the same in the United Kingdom and the United States , though many states and regions  भीतर the u.S. do have अंग्रेज़ी as an आधिकारिक  language .
English is the dominant language of New Zealand and an official language of  कनाडा ( साथ साथ फ्रेंच ) , इण्डिया ( साथ साथ हिंदी  and several other languages ) , Ireland ( along with Irish ) , and the Philippines ( along with Tagalog ) .
English is the sole official language of the Commonwealth of  राष्ट्र और the राष्ट्रमंडल खेल .
English is one of the official languages of the United  राष्ट्र , the यूरोपीय संघ और the अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Olympic Committee .
Many of these countries are current or former colonies or dependencies of the United Kingdom ( see also British Empire ) , or of the United States ,  itself a पूर्व उपनिवेश  of the UK .
Notable exceptions  शामिल रवांडा ,  which was a former Belgian colony and Eritrea , which was an Italian colony where the British Empire spanned its control only in World War II and shortly after ( 1941-1952 ) .
India  's भाषाई चित्र  is complex .
According to the Constitution of India , `` Hindi in the Devanagari script '' is the official language of the union ; and English the 'subsidiary official language ' ; however , English is mandated for the authoritative  ग्रन्थ of सब संघीय कानून और परम् अदालत निर्णय और ( साथ  with Hindi ) is one of the two languages of the Indian Parliament .
English is used almost  exclusively लिये उच्चतर  education , business and science .
Courses  in बहुमत of the स्कूलों हैं सिखाया  exclusively in English .
English is extensively  प्रयुक्त लिये प्रशासनिक  purposes in India .
India is the  second-largest english-speaking देश  in the world by number of speakers , after the United States .
As such , many consider  अंग्रेज़ी  to be the de facto official language of India .
देखिए आधिकारिक  languages of India .
The linguistic makeup of  पाकिस्तानी is similarly  complex .
While the national language  is उर्दू , अंग्रेज़ी is  an official language and used in business , government and law .
English is  a अनिवार्य भाषा  in schools .
All school  पाठ्यक्रम हैं सिखाया in अंग्रेज़ी  .
Pakistan is the 9th largest English-speaking  देश in the संसार by जनसांख्यिकी  .
Southern Cone ( , ) is  a भौगोलिक प्रदेश रचित of the southernmost  areas of South America , south of the Tropic of Capricorn .
Although geographically this includes Southern and part of Southeast ( São Paulo ) of Brazil , in terms of political geography the Southern cone has  traditionally comprised अर्जेंटीना  , Chile , Paraguay , and Uruguay .
In the narrowest sense , it only covers Argentina , Chile and Uruguay , bounded on the north by the states of Brazil , Paraguay , Bolivia and Peru ,  on the वेस्ट by the प्रशांत समंदर , और दक्षिण to the जंक्शन between the प्रशांत और अटलांटिक  Oceans , which it is the closest continental area of Antarctica ( 1000 km ) .
High life expectancy , the highest Human Development Index of Latin America , high Standard of living , significant participation in the  वैश्विक बाज़ार और the उभरते अर्थव्यवस्था of इसके सदस्यों मेक the दक्षिणी कोन the सबसे prosperous macro-region in दक्षिण अमेरिका  .
For  multi-event एथलेटिक प्रतियोगिताओं  see Track and Field Competitions , section `` Meetings '' .
Meetings  हैं sometimes आयोजित around  conference tables .
In  a बैठक , दो or अधिक लोगों आइये  together to discuss one or more topics , often in a formal setting .
An official game in baseball ,  भी sometimes पुकारा a विनियमन खेल , is a  game that has progressed beyond the point at which it can be considered complete if necessary .
This is approximately  the halfway पाइंट  of the game .
In the case of inclement  मौसम , कोई खेल जिससे रै पहुँचे  this point may be stopped and shortened as needed , with the result being final , and all records and statistics counted .
A game which has not reached this point before being stopped is either considered a  निलंबित खेल ( to be जारी at a बाद तिथि इससे the पाइंट of stoppage  ) , or is simply canceled and replayed from the start .
( This depends on the rules of each  व्यक्तिगत लीग  . )
in either मामला , no  statistics are counted until the game becomes official .
Since most professional baseball games are nine innings long , the fifth inning is used as the  दहलीज  for an official game .
If the visiting team is leading , or  the खेल is tied , the समाप्त of the  fifth inning marks this point .
If the home team ( which bats last ) is already ahead in the score ,  और theoretically होता नहीं need  its half of the fifth inning , then 41⁄2 innings ( i.e. , the middle of the fifth ) is considered an official game .
The  खेल is भी माना आधिकारिक if the घर टोली स्कोर to लो the सीसे in the नीचे  of the fifth inning , since the game would end immediately if the same thing happened in the ninth .
In nearly all cases , the `` official game '' status is used to determine  whether a बरसात जाँच होगा be सम्मानित लिये प्रशंसक पकड़कर टिकटें  .
If a game is started but does not reach the point of becoming official , fans are entitled to a new  टिकट लिये the make-up खेल or ( in सबसे मामले ) कोई अन्य उपलब्धियाँ खेल of उनके  choice .
If a game is halted after it becomes  आधिकारिक , the खेल is बस shortened और  no rain check is given .
The `` official game '' statistic received some  ध्यान दौरान the 1995 ऋतु , जब कैलोरी ripken , jr. थी approaching the  record for consecutive games played , previously held by Lou Gehrig .
विशाल संख्याएँ यहूद लटका on the पक्ष of the  B & O Warehouse at Oriole Park at Camden Yards to show the number of games in Ripken 's streak .
Each day , a new number was unfurled during the fifth  inning बाद प्रत्येक खेल था become आधिकारिक ( चूंकि  the statistic would not have counted if the game had been stopped before that point ) .
A similar practice has been used to count down toward the demolition of several stadiums ( including Veterans Stadium in Philadelphia in 2003 , Busch Memorial Stadium in St. Louis in 2005 , and the original Yankee Stadium and Shea Stadium in New York City in 2008 ) ; as each game became  आधिकारिक , the टोली होता unveil a नई ( निम्नतर ) क्रमांक प्रर्दशित the क्रमांक of खेल बाएँ to be निभाई  in the stadium .
A telephone number or phone number is a sequence of digits used to call from one telephone line to  another in a पब्लिक switched टेलीफोन संजाल  .
When telephone numbers were invented , they  यहूद छोटी — as few as एक , दो or तीन अंक  — and were given orally to a switchboard operator .
As phone systems have grown and  interconnected to encompass  the world , telephone numbers have become longer .
In addition  to telephones , वे अभी अभिगम अन्य  devices , such as computers and fax machines .
The number contains the information necessary  to पहचानो uniquely the intended endpoint  for the telephone call .
Each such endpoint must  have a अद्वितीय क्रमांक भीतर  the public switched telephone network .
Most countries use  फिक्स्ड लंबाई संख्याएँ ( लिये सामान्य लाइनों at तनिक ) और  therefore the number of endpoints determines the necessary length of the telephone number .
It is also possible for each subscriber to have a set of shorter  संख्याएँ लिये the endpoints सबसे प्रायः  used .
These `` shorthand '' or `` speed calling '' numbers are  automatically अनूदित to अद्वितीय  telephone numbers before the call can be connected .
Some special services have their own short numbers ( e.g. , 1-1-9 , 9-1-1 , 0-0-0 , 9-9-9 , 1-1-1 , and 1-1-2 being the Emergency Services numbers for China , Japan , South Korea , Taiwan and Sri Lanka ; Canada and the United States ; Australia ; the United Kingdom , Ireland , South Africa , Poland , Saudi Arabia , the United Arab Emirates , Morocco , Macao ,  बहरीन , क़तर , बांग्लादेश , बोत्सवाना , घाना , कीनिया , हांग काँग , मलेशिया , मॉरीशस , सिंगापुर , ज़िम्बाब्वे , त्रिनिदाद , टोबैगो ; नई जीलैंड ; कुवैत और the यूरोपीय संघ ,  respectively . )
Many systems  भी allow काल्स भीतर a लोकल  area to be made without dialing the local area code .
For example , a phone number in North America will start with  तीन संख्याएँ ( ऐसे as 661 ) , जिससे is the क्षेत्रफल कोड , followed by सात अंक विभाजित into भाग of तीन  and four ( such as 550-1212 ) , which is the local number .
Some areas now have  अनिवार्य ten-digit डायलिंग in  place , even for local calls .
Most telephone  संजाल आज ( अपवाद होने निजी intercom और सुरक्षित फोन संजाल ) हैं interconnected  in the international telephone network , where the format of telephone numbers is standardized by ITU-T in the recommendation E.164 .
This specifies that the entire  क्रमांक चाहिए be 15 अंक or shorter  , and begin with a country prefix .
For most countries ,  इस is followed by an क्षेत्रफल कोड or नगर कोड और the सदस्य क्रमांक , जिससे  might consist of the code for a particular telephone exchange .
ITU-T recommendation E.123 describes how to represent an international  टेलीफोन क्रमांक in लिखने or छपाई , starting साथ a प्लस चिह्न  ( `` + '' ) and the country code .
When calling an international number from a fixed line phone , the + must be replaced  साथ the अंतरराष्ट्रीय कॉल उपसर्ग चुनी by the देश  the call is being made from .
Some mobile phones  allow the + to be डाला  directly .
The  स्वरूप और आवंटन of लोकल फोन संख्याएँ हैं नियंत्रित by प्रत्येक  nation 's respective government , either directly or by sponsored organizations ( such as NANPA overseen by NeuStar Inc. ) .
Before a telephone call is connected , the telephone number must be dialed by the calling  पार्टी  or Caller .
The called party might have equipment that presents  कॉलर id पहले the कॉल is answered  .
A  संग्रहण एजेंसी is a कारोबार कि  pursues payments of debts owed by individuals or businesses .
Most  संग्रहण एजेंसियों operate as एजेंटों of  creditors and collect debts for a fee or percentage of the total amount owed .
There are many types of  संग्रहण  agencies .
First-party agencies  हैं oftentimes subsidiaries of the असली  company the debt is owed to .
Third-party agencies are separate companies contracted by a company to collect debts  on उनके निमित्त लिये a शुल्क  .
Debt buyers purchase the  कर्ज़ at a प्रतिशत  of its value , then attempt to collect it .
Each country has its own rules and  regulations  regarding them .
Cannabis  पुष्प साथ दृश्य  trichomes
Cannabis , also known as marijuana ( from the Mexican Spanish  marihuana ) , और by अन्य names , is a तैयारी of the कैनबिस संयंत्र intended  for use as a psychoactive drug and as medicine .
pharmacologically , the प्रिंसिपल psychoactive constituent of कैनबिस is tetrahydrocannabinol ( thc ) ; it  is one of 483 known compounds in the plant , including at least 84 other cannabinoids , such as cannabidiol ( CBD ) , cannabinol ( CBN ) , tetrahydrocannabivarin ( THCV ) .
and  cannabigerol ( cbg  ) .
This is  a सूची of अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल quarterbacks जो have प्रारंभ लिये the  Washington Redskins , as well as its predecessors the Boston Braves ( 1932 ) and Boston Redskins ( 1933 – 1936 ) , in the National Football League ( NFL ) .
The Washington Redskins franchise was originally founded in Boston , Massachusetts as the  बोस्टन braves , नामित  after the local baseball franchise .
The name was  बदला the following साल  to the Redskins .
In 1937 ,  the मताधिकार स्थानांतरित to  Washington , D.C .
Of  the 49 redskins starting quarterbacks , दो have महरूम inducted  into the Pro Football Hall of Fame : Sammy Baugh and Sonny Jurgensen .
Robert Griffin  iii 2012-present
Jason  कैम्पबेल  2005-2009
Mark Burnell  2004-2007
Mark Rypien  1986-1993
जो theismann  1974-1985
Sammy  baugh 1937-1952
1st Special Forces Operational Detachment-Delta ( 1st SFOD-D ) , popularly known as Delta Force , is one of the  संयुक्त राज्य ' चार गुपचुप tier-one counter-terrorism और खास मिशन  Units .
It was formerly listed as the Combat Applications Group by the Department of Defense but  रै चूंकि महरूम officially re-designated  the Army Compartmented Elements ( ACE ) .
While 1st SFOD-D is administratively  समर्थित by usasoc , it जलप्रपात अंतर्गत the operational कंट्रोल of the  Joint Special Operations Command .
Delta Force and its Navy counterpart , the Naval  खास warfare विकास समूह , हैं the संयुक्त राज्य सैन्य 's  primary counter-terrorism units .
Delta Force 's primary tasks are counter-terrorism , direct action , and national  हस्तक्षेप परिचालन , हालांकि it is an अत्यधिक बहुमुखी समूह सक्षम of conducting अनेक प्रकार of गुप्त मिशन , सहित , लकिन नहीं सीमित to  , hostage rescues and raids .
The Central Intelligence Agency 's highly secretive Special  क्रियाएँ प्रभाग ( उदास ) और अधिक specifically इसके elite खास परिचालन समूह ( sog  ) often works with – and recruits – operators from Delta Force .
Alpha decay is one example type of radioactive  क्षय , in जिससे an परमाणु केंद्रक emits an अल्फा कण , और thereby परिणत ( or 'क्षयs  ' ) into an atom with a mass number 4 less and atomic number 2 less .
अनेक अन्य प्रकार  of decays are possible .
Radioactive decay , also known as nuclear decay or radioactivity , is the process by which a nucleus of an unstable  अणु loses उर्जा by emitting अणु  of ionizing radiation .
A material that spontaneously emits this kind of radiation — which includes the emission of  ऊर्जावान अल्फा अणु , बीटा अणु  , and gamma rays — is considered radioactive .
There are many different types of  रेडियोसक्रिय क्षय ( देखिए तालिका  below ) .
A decay , or loss of  उर्जा , परिणाम जब an अणु साथ एक प्रकार of केंद्रक , पुकारा the जनक radionuclide , परिणत  to an atom with a nucleus in a different state , or to a different nucleus containing different numbers of protons and neutrons .
Either of these products  is नामित  the daughter nuclide .
In some decays the parent and daughter are different  रासायनिक तत्व , और यूँ the क्षय प्रक्रम परिणाम in नाभिकीय transmutation  ( creation of an atom of a new element ) .
The first decay processes to be discovered were alpha decay , beta  क्षय , और गामा क्षय .
Alpha decay  occurs जब the केंद्रक ejects an अल्फा कण  ( helium nucleus ) .
This is the most common process of emitting nucleons ,  लकिन in rarer प्रकार of decays , nuclei can  eject protons , or specific nuclei of other elements ( in the process called cluster decay ) .
Beta decay occurs when the nucleus  emits an इलेक्ट्रॉन or positron और a प्रकार of न्यूट्रिनो , in a प्रक्रम कि परिवर्तन a प्रोटॉन to  a neutron or the other way around .
The nucleus may capture an orbiting electron , converting a proton  into a न्यूट्रॉन ( इलेक्ट्रॉन  capture ) .
सब of ये प्रक्रियाओं  result in nuclear transmutation .
By  कंट्रास्ट , वहीँ मौजूद रेडियोसक्रिय  decay processes that do not result in transmutation .
The energy of an excited nucleus may be emitted as a gamma ray in gamma  क्षय , or प्रयुक्त to eject an कक्षीय इलेक्ट्रॉन by बातचीत साथ the उत्साहित  nucleus in a process called internal conversion .
Radioisotopes occasionally  emit neutrons , और इस परिणाम in a बदलें in an  element from one isotope to another .
One type of radioactive decay results in  उत्पाद जिससे हैं नहीं पारिभाषित , लकिन appear in a दायरा of ``  pieces '' of the original nucleus .
इस क्षय is पुकारा  spontaneous fission .
This decay happens when a large unstable nucleus spontaneously splits into two ( and occasionally three ) smaller daughter nuclei , and usually  emits गामा किरणें , neutrons , or अन्य अणु as a consequence  .
Radioactive decay is a stochastic ( i.e. , random ) process at the level of single atoms , in that , according to quantum theory , it is  नामुमकिन to भविष्यवाणी जब a particular अणु होगा  decay .
However , the  मौका कि a दिए अणु  will decay is constant over time .
For a large number of atoms , the decay rate for the collection is computable from the  measured क्षय स्थिरांक of the न्यूक्लाइड  ( or equivalently from the half-lifes ) .
Waxing is a form of  semi-permanent बाल हटाना जिससे  removes the hair from the root .
New hair will not grow  वापस in the previously waxed  area for two to eight weeks , although some people will start to see regrowth in only a week .
Almost any area of the body can be waxed , including eyebrows ,  फेस , बिकिनी क्षेत्रफल , टाँगे , बाहें , वापस , उदर  and feet .
There are many types of  वैक्सिंग उपयुक्त लिये निकालना  unwanted hair .
Strip waxing is accomplished by spreading a wax  thinly over the  skin .
A cloth or paper strip is then  दबाया on the शीर्ष और ripped  off the direction of hair growth .
इस removes the  wax along with the hair .
Strip  मोम can भी be बना  at home using lemon juice , water , sugar and honey .
Hot waxing utilizes Hot wax  ( as opposed to स्ट्रिप मोम  ) .
In this case , the wax is  लागू somewhat thickly और साथ no cloth  or paper strips .
The wax then hardens when it  cools , यूँ allowing the आसान हटाना by a चिकित्सक बगैर the  aid of cloths .
This waxing method is very beneficial to  लोगों जो have संवेदनशील  skin .
Wall painting ( 1st century AD )  इससे pompeii depicting a multigenerational  banquet
Ancient  रोमन संस्कृति existed throughout  the almost 1200-year history of the civilization of Ancient Rome .
The term refers to the culture of the Roman Republic , later the Roman Empire ,  जिससे , at इसके शिखर , covered an क्षेत्रफल इससे lowland स्कॉटलैंड और  Morocco to the Euphrates .
Life in ancient Rome revolved around the  नगर of रोम , इसके famed सात पहाड़ियाँ , और इसके स्मारकीय structures ऐसे as the flavian amphitheatre ( अभी पुकारा  the Colosseum ) , the Forum of Trajan , and the Pantheon .
The  नगर भी था अनेक थिएटर  , gymnasiums , and many taverns , baths , and brothels .
throughout the territory अंतर्गत प्राचीन रोम 's कंट्रोल , आवासीय वास्तुकला ranged इससे बहुत modest घरों to देश  villas , and in the capital city of Rome , there were imperial residences on the elegant Palatine Hill , from which the word palace is derived .
The vast majority of the population lived in the city center  , packed into insulae ( अपार्टमेंट  blocks ) .
The city of Rome was the largest megalopolis of  कि समय , साथ a जनसांख्यिकी कि may  well have exceeded one million people , with a high end estimate of 3.6 million and a low end estimate of 450,000 .
Historical estimates indicate that around 30 percent of the  जनसांख्यिकी अंतर्गत the नगर 's क्षेत्राधिकार जिया in innumerable शहरी centers , साथ जनसांख्यिकी of at तनिक 10,000 और  several military settlements , a very high rate of urbanization by pre-industrial standards .
The most urbanized part of the Empire was Italy , which had an estimated rate of urbanization  of 32 % , the वही रेट of शहरी of इंग्लैण्ड  in 1800 .
Most Roman towns and cities had a forum , temples and the same type of  इमारतें , on a छोटी स्केल , as मिला in रोम  .
The large urban population required an endless supply of food which was a complex logistical task , including  acquiring , transporting , storing और वितरण of खाना लिये रोम और अन्य  urban centers .
Italian farms supplied vegetables and fruits , but fish  और मांस यहूद luxuries  .
Aqueducts were built to bring water  to शहरी centers और वाइन और आयल यहूद आयातित  from Hispania , Gaul and Africa .
वहीँ थी a बहुत विशाल राशि of कॉमर्स between  the provinces of the Roman Empire , since its transportation technology was very efficient .
The  औसत लागत of हस्तांतरण और the प्रौद्योगिकी  were comparable with 18th-century Europe .
The later city of Rome did not fill the  स्पेस भीतर इसके प्राचीन aurelian दीवारें जबतक  after 1870 .
Eighty percent of the population under the jurisdiction of ancient Rome lived in the  countryside in settlements साथ कम than 10 हजार निवासियों  .
Landlords generally resided in cities and their  estates यहूद बाएँ in the परवाह of फार्म प्रबंधक  .
The plight  of ग्रामीण स्लेव थी generally बदतर than  their counterparts working in urban aristocratic households .
To stimulate a higher labor productivity most landlords freed a  विशाल क्रमांक of स्लेव और अनेक प्राप्त  wages .
Some records indicate that `` as many as 42 people lived in one small farm hut in Egypt , while  छह परिवारों स्वामित्व a सिंगल ज़ैतून पेड़ .  '' .
Such a rural environment continued to induce migration of population to urban centers until the early 2nd century ,  जब the शहरी जनसांख्यिकी रोका growing और प्रारंभ to मनाही  .
Starting in the middle of the 2nd century BC , private Greek culture was  increasingly in ascendancy , in spite of tirades विरूद्ध the `` softening '' प्रभाव  of Hellenized culture from the conservative moralists .
By the time of Augustus , cultured Greek household  स्लेव सिखाया the रोमन यंग ( sometimes भी the लड़कियों  ) ; chefs , decorators , secretaries , doctors , and hairdressers—all came from the Greek East .
Greek sculptures  सुशोभित hellenistic लैंडस्केप बागवानी on  the Palatine or in the villas , or were imitated in Roman sculpture yards by Greek slaves .
The Roman cuisine preserved in the  cookery किताबे ascribed to apicius is essentially  Greek .
Roman writers  disdained लैटिन  for a cultured Greek style .
Only in law and  शासन थी the तिरछा प्रकृति  of Rome 's accretive culture supreme .
Against this human background , both the urban and rural setting ,  एक of इतिहास 's सबसे influential सभ्यताओं  took shape , leaving behind a cultural legacy that survives in part today .
James Joseph `` Duffy '' Waldorf ,  jr. ( born अगस्त 20 , 1962  ) is an American professional golfer .
कांच बोतलों ( लिये खीरा  slices ) on shipping pallets
A  सोवियत मेयोनेज़  jar
A modern  `` फ्रेंच  Kilner '' jar
Glass production involves two  प्रमुख विधि – the  float glass process , which produces sheet glass , and glassblowing which produces bottles and other containers .
A season is a subdivision  of the साल , चिह्नित  by changes in weather , ecology , and hours of daylight .
सीज़न परिणाम इससे the वार्षिक क्रान्ति of the धरती  around the Sun and the tilt of the Earth 's axis relative to the plane of revolution .
In temperate and polar regions , the seasons are marked  by परिवर्तन in the तीव्रता of धूप कि पहुँच the धरती  's surface , variations of which may cause animals to go into hibernation or to migrate , and plants to be dormant .
During May , June and July , the  उत्तरी गोलार्ध is उजागर to  more direct sunlight because the hemisphere faces the sun .
The same is  सच्चा of the दक्षिणी गोलार्ध in नवम्बर  , December and January .
It is the tilt of the Earth that causes the Sun to be higher in the  आसमान दौरान the गर्मियाँ  months which increases the solar flux .
However , due to seasonal lag , June , July and August are the hottest months in the northern hemisphere and December , January and February are  the hottest महीने in the दक्षिणी गोलार्ध  .
In temperate and subpolar regions , generally four calendar -based seasons ( with their adjectives ) are  पहचाना : वसन्त ( vernal ) , गर्मियाँ ( estival ) , पतझड़ ( autumnal ) और शीत  ( hibernal ) .
However , ecologists mostly use a six season model  लिये शीतोष्ण जलवायु regions कि शामिल pre-spring ( prevernal ) और लेट  summer ( serotinal ) as distinct seasons along with the traditional four .
Hot regions have two or three seasons ; the rainy ( or wet , or monsoon )  ऋतु और the शुष्क ऋतु , और in कुछ तीव्र क्षेत्रों ,  a cool or mild season .
In some parts of  the संसार , खास `` सीज़न '' हैं loosely पारिभाषित  based on important events such as a hurricane season , tornado season or a wildfire season .
The six  ecological सीज़न
The four calendar seasons ,  चित्रित in an  ancient Roman mosaic from Tunisia
The Battle of Fort Sumter ( April 12–14 , 1861 ) was  the बमबारी और आत्मसमर्पण of फोर्ट sumter , निकट चार्ल्सटन , दक्षिण  Carolina , that started the American Civil War .
Following declarations of secession  by सात दक्षिणी राज्य , दक्षिण कैरोलिना मांगे कि the  U.S. Army abandon its facilities in Charleston Harbor .
On December 26 , 1860 , U.S.  प्रमुख रॉबर्ट एंडरसन surreptitiously स्थानांतरित उसके छोटी कमांड इससे  the indefensible Fort Moultrie on Sullivan 's Island to Fort Sumter , a substantial fortress controlling the entrance of Charleston Harbor .
An attempt by U.S. President James Buchanan to reinforce and resupply Anderson , using the unarmed merchant ship Star of the  वेस्ट , विफल जब it थी fired upon by shore बैटरी  on January 9 , 1861 .
दक्षिण कैरोलिना अधिकारियों  then seized all Federal property in the Charleston area , except for Fort Sumter .
During the early months  of 1861 , the हालात around फोर्ट sumter increasingly began  to resemble a siege .
In March  , ब्रिगेडियर . gen. P. G. T. beauregard , the पहला सामान्य  officer of the newly formed Confederate States of America , was placed in command of Confederate forces in Charleston .
Beauregard energetically directed the strengthening of  बैटरी around चार्ल्सटन हार्बर aimed  at Fort Sumter .
शर्तें in the फोर्ट grew dire as the  Union soldiers rushed to complete the installation of additional guns .
Anderson  थी छोटी of मेन  , food , and supplies .
The  resupply of फोर्ट sumter became the पहला संकट  of the administration of President Abraham Lincoln .
He notified  the राज्यपाल of दक्षिण कैरोलिना , फ्रांसिस W. pickens , कि  he was sending supply ships , which resulted in an ultimatum from the Confederate government : evacuate Fort Sumter immediately .
Major  एंडरसन refused to आत्मसमर्पण  .
Beginning at 4:30 a.m. on April 12 , the  confederates bombarded the फोर्ट इससे तोपखाने बैटरी  surrounding the harbor .
Although the  संघ गैरीसन लौटे आग , वे यहूद significantly outgunned  and , after 34 hours , Major Anderson agreed to evacuate .
There was no loss of life on either side as a direct result of this engagement , although a gun explosion during  the आत्मसमर्पण ceremonies on  April 14 caused two Union deaths .
Following the battle , there was  फैली support इससे दोनो उत्तर और दक्षिण लिये  further military action .
Lincoln 's immediate call for 75,000 volunteers to suppress  the विद्रोह resulted in an अतिरिक्त चार दक्षिणी स्लेव राज्य  also declaring their secession and joining the Confederacy .
The Civil War  था begun  .
3G , short for third Generation , is the third generation of  मोबाईल दूरसंचार प्रौद्योगिकी  .
3G telecommunication networks support  सेवाएं कि provide an सूचना  transfer rate of at least 200 kbit/s .
However , many services advertised  as 3g provide उच्चतर गति  than the minimum technical requirements for a 3G service .
Recent 3G releases , often denoted 3.5G and 3.75G , also  provide मोबाईल ब्रॉडबैंड अभिगम of अनेक mbit/s to स्मार्टफ़ोन और मोबाईल modems  in laptop computers .
3G finds application in wireless voice telephony , mobile Internet access ,  फिक्स्ड बेतार अंतरजाल अभिगम , वीडियो काल्स और मोबाईल tv .
`` Mazel Tov ! ''  लिखा on  a wine glass tag
traditionally , बाद the दूल्हे ब्रेक  the glass , the guests shout `` Mazel Tov ! `` .
A birthday cake , iced with the words `` מזל טוב '' ( mazal  tov ) , as is प्रायः किया  in Israel .
Here the  phrase is लिखा in यहूदी  cursive .
`` Mazel tov '' or `` mazal tov '' ( Hebrew / Yiddish : `` מזל  טוב '' , यहूदी : `` mazal tov '' ; यहूदी  : `` mazel tov '' ; lit .
`` good luck '' ) is a phrase used to express  बधाई लिये a प्रसन्न और  significant occasion or event .
hepatitis c is an संक्रामक बीमारी affecting  primarily the liver , caused by the hepatitis C virus ( HCV ) .
The infection is often asymptomatic , but  दीर्घकालिक संक्रमण can सीसे to scarring of the जिगर  and ultimately to cirrhosis , which is generally apparent after many years .
In some cases , those with  cirrhosis होगा go on to develop  liver failure , liver cancer or life-threatening esophageal and gastric varices .
HCV is spread  primarily by blood-to-blood सम्पर्क संबद्ध साथ intravenous ड्रग उपयोग  , poorly sterilized medical equipment and transfusions .
An  अनुमानित 130–200 लाख  people worldwide are infected with .
The existence of ( originally `` non- A non- B  hepatitis '' ) थी postulated in the 1970s  and proven in 1989 .
only infects  इंसानो और chimpanzees  .
the वायरस persists in  the liver in about 85 % of those infected .
This persistent infection can be  treated साथ दवा : the मानक चिकित्सा is a संयोजन of peginterferon  and ribavirin , with either boceprevir or telaprevir added in some cases .
overall , 50–80 % of  people treated are cured .
those जो develop cirrhosis  or liver cancer may require a liver transplant .
is the leading cause of liver  प्रत्यारोपण , हालांकि the वायरस  usually recurs after transplantation .
No vaccine against  is उपलब्धियाँ  .
A flexible spending account ( FSA ) , also known as a flexible spending arrangement , is one of a number of  tax-advantaged वित्तीय खाते कि can be नियत up through a कैफेटेरिया योजना of an नियोक्ता in the संयुक्त  States .
An FSA allows an employee to set aside a portion of  आय to अदा लिये योग्य खर्च as स्थापित in the कैफेटेरिया  plan , most commonly for medical expenses but often for dependent care or other expenses .
Money deducted from an employee 's pay into  an fsa is नहीं विषय  to payroll taxes , resulting in substantial payroll tax savings .
One significant  disadvantage to using an fsa is कि निधि नहीं प्रयुक्त by the समाप्त  of the plan year are lost to the employee , known as the `` use it or lose it '' rule .
The most common type of flexible spending account , the medical expense FSA ( also medical FSA or health FSA  ) , is समान to a स्वास्थ्य बचत खाता ( hsa ) or a स्वास्थ्य reimbursement  account ( HRA ) .
However , while  hsas और hras हैं लगभग exclusively प्रयुक्त as components  of a consumer driven health care plan , medical FSAs are commonly offered with more traditional health plans as well .
In  जोड , निधि in a स्वास्थ्य बचत  account are not lost when the plan year is over , unlike funds in an FSA .
Paper  फ़ॉर्म or an fsa डेबिट कार्ड ,  also known as a Flexcard , may be used to access the account funds .
Tennessee ( ) ( ) is a U.S. state  स्तिथ in the southeastern  United States .
Tennessee is the 36th  सबसे extensive और the  17th most populous of the 50 United States .
Tennessee is bordered by Kentucky and Virginia to the north , North Carolina to the east , Georgia , Alabama , and  मिसिसिपी to the दक्षिण , और अरकंसास और मिसौरी  to the west .
The  एपलाशियन kyu dominate the पूर्वी भाग of the राज्य , और the मिसिसिपी नदी  forms the state 's western border .
टेनेसी 's पूंजी और दूसरी  largest city is Nashville , which has a population of 609,644 .
मेम्फिस is the राज्य 's largest  city , with a population of 652,050 .
The state of Tennessee is rooted in the Watauga Association  , a 1772 frontier अनुबंध generally regarded as  the first constitutional government west of the Appalachians .
What is now Tennessee was initially part of North Carolina , and later part  of the दक्षिणपश्चिम territory  .
Tennessee was admitted to the  संघ as the 16th राज्य  on June 1 , 1796 .
Tennessee was the last state to leave the Union and join the Confederacy at the outbreak of the U.S. Civil War in 1861 , and the  पहला राज्य to be readmitted to the संघ at the समाप्त of the युद्ध  .
टेनेसी सुसज्जित अधिक सैनिको लिये the confederate फौज than  any other state , and more soldiers for the Union Army than any other Southern state .
in the 20th सदी , टेनेसी transitioned  from an agrarian economy to a more diversified economy , aided at times by federal entities such as the Tennessee Valley Authority .
In the early 1940s , the city  of ओक लकीरें थी स्थापित to हाउस the मैनहटन प्रोजेक्ट 's यूरेनियम संवर्धन सुविधाएं  , helping to build the world 's first atomic bomb .
Tennessee has played a critical role  in the विकास of अनेक  forms of American popular music , including rock and roll , blues , country , and rockabilly .
beale गली in मेम्फिस is माना by अनेक to be the जन्मस्थान of the  blues , with musicians such as W.C . Handy performing in its clubs as early as 1909 .
Memphis was also home to Sun Records , where musicians such as Elvis  प्रेस्ली , इसहाक़ हेज़ , जॉनी नकदी , कार्ल perkins , जेरी ली लुईस , रॉय orbison  , and Charlie Rich began their recording careers , and where rock and roll took shape in the 1950s .
The 1927 Victor recording sessions in Bristol generally mark  the शुरूआत of the देश म्यूज़िक विधा और the वृद्धि of the ग्रैंड ओले opry in the 1930s helped मेक  Nashville the center of the country music recording industry .
Three bricks and mortar museums recognize Tennessee 's role in nurturing various forms  of लोकप्रिय म्यूज़िक : the मेम्फिस चट्टान n ' आत्मा संग्रहालय , the देश  Music Hall of Fame and Museum in Nashville , and the International Rock-A-Billy Museum in Jackson .
In addition , the Rockabilly Hall of  कीर्ति , an ऑनलाइन साईट recognizing the विकास of rockabilly  in which Tennessee played a crucial role , is based in Nashville .
Tennessee 's  प्रमुख उद्योग शामिल कृषि  , manufacturing , and tourism .
Poultry , soybeans , and cattle are the state 's primary agricultural products , and major  निर्माण निर्यात शामिल रसायन , परिवहन उपकरण  , and electrical equipment .
The  ग्रेट smoky kyu नेशनल पार्क , the स्वदेश 's सबसे visited नेशनल  park , is headquartered in the eastern part of the state , and a section of the Appalachian Trail roughly follows the Tennessee-North Carolina border .
Other major tourist attractions include the Tennessee Aquarium  in चट्टानूगा , the sunsphere in knoxville , dollywood in कबूतर forge , the पार्थेनन , the देश म्यूज़िक हॉल of  Fame and Museum , and Ryman Auditorium in Nashville , and Elvis Presley 's Graceland residence and tomb in Memphis .
One  डिज़ाइन रूपांतर of  a cock ring .
A cock ring is a ring that can be placed around a man 's penis , usually at the  आधार , primarily to slow the प्रवाह of रक्त इससे the वीर्यपात  penile tissue , thus maintaining an erection for a much longer period of time .
Cock rings can be worn  around बस the शिश्न or दोनो the शिश्न और scrotum , or  just the scrotum alone , though this is usually called a testicle cuff .
Rings can be made of a  किस्में of अलग सामग्री , सबसे commonly चमड़े , रबर , or  silicone , though nylon and metal are also used either as the main component or part of the closure .
The term cock ring is sometimes used as a synonym for a Prince Albert piercing , a piercing of the penis  कि is प्रायः , हालांकि नहीं सदा  , a metal ring .
When used in cases of erectile dysfunction they are known by  विभिन्न names ऐसे as `` स्तंभन रिंग  '' and `` tension ring '' .
The headquarters of Major League  बेसबॉल at 245 पार्क एवेन्यू ,  Midtown Manhattan , New York City , USA .
Major League Baseball ( MLB ) is a  पेशेवर बेसबॉल लीग , consisting  of teams that play in the National League and the American League .
Dating to 1876 and 1901 respectively , the two leagues merged in 2000 into a single organization led by the Commissioner of Baseball , after 100 years as  पृथक विधिक entities  .
MLB constitutes one of the major  पेशेवर खेल लीग  of the United States and Canada .
It is composed of 30 teams — 29 in the  संयुक्त राज्य और एक in  Canada .
Teams in MLB  खेल 162 खेल प्रत्येक ऋतु  over six months ( April through September ) .
Five teams in each league advance to a four-round postseason tournament that culminates in the World Series , a best-of-seven-games  चैंपियनशिप श्रेणी between the दो लीग champions जिससे तिथियाँ to 1903  .
The organization oversees many minor-league baseball leagues which operate about 240  टीमों संबद्ध साथ the major-league क्लब  .
साथ the अंतरराष्ट्रीय बेसबॉल संघ , the लीग  also manages the international World Baseball Classic tournament .
MLB has the  उच्चतम ऋतु उपस्थिति of कोई खेल लीग in the संसार  with nearly 75 million spectators in 2012 .
Delaware ( ) is a U.S. state located on the Atlantic Coast in the Mid-Atlantic  प्रदेश of the संयुक्त  States .
It is bordered to the south and west  by मेरीलैंड , to the पूर्वोत्तर by नई जर्सी  , and to the north by Pennsylvania .
The state takes its name from Thomas West , 3rd Baron De La Warr , an English nobleman and Virginia 's first colonial  राज्यपाल , बाद जिसको कया is अभी पुकारा केप  Henlopen was originally named .
Delaware is located in  the northeastern portion of the delmarva प्रायद्वीप और is the  second smallest , the sixth least populous , but the sixth most densely populated of the fifty United States .
Delaware is  विभाजित into तीन  counties .
From north to south , these three counties are New Castle  , केंट , और ससेक्स  .
While the  दक्षिणी दो काउंटी have historically  been predominantly agricultural , New Castle County has been more industrialized .
Before its coastline was explored by Europeans in the 16th century , Delaware was  inhabited by अनेक समूह of देशी अमेरिकी , सहित the lenape in the उत्तर और nanticoke  in the south .
It was initially colonized by Dutch  व्यापारियों at zwaanendael , स्तिथ निकट the उपस्थित  town of Lewes , in 1631 .
Delaware was one of the 13 colonies participating in the American Revolution and on  दिसम्बर 7 , 1787 , became the पहला राज्य to ratify  the Constitution of the United States , thereby becoming known as The First State .
Energy  परिवर्तन in  Energy Systems Language
Energy transformation or energy  परिवर्तन is the प्रक्रम  of changing one form of energy to another .
In physics , the term energy describes the capacity to produce certain changes within a system , without  लिहाज़ to सीमाएं in परिवर्तन  imposed by Entropy .
Changes in total energy of systems can only be accomplished by adding or subtracting  उर्जा इससे उन्हें , as उर्जा is a मात्रा जिससे is conserved  , according to the first law of thermodynamics .
According to special relativity ,  परिवर्तन in the उर्जा of प्रणालियों होगा भी coincide साथ परिवर्तन in the प्रणाली  's mass , and the total amount of mass of a system is a measure of its energy .
Energy in a system may be transformed so  कि it resides in a अलग राज्य , or a अलग  type of energy .
Energy in many  राज्य may be प्रयुक्त to do अनेक किस्में  of physical work .
Energy may be used in natural processes or machines , or else to  provide कुछ सेवा to समाज ( ऐसे  as heat , light , or motion ) .
For example , an internal combustion engine converts the potential chemical energy in gasoline  और ऑक्सीजन into ऊष्मा , जिससे is तब रूपांतरित into the propulsive उर्जा ( गतिज  energy that moves a vehicle ) .
A solar cell converts solar radiation into electrical  उर्जा कि can तब be प्रयुक्त to लाइट  a bulb or power a computer .
The generic name for a device which converts energy  इससे एक रूप to another , is a  transducer .
In general , most types of energy , save for thermal  उर्जा , may be परिवर्तित  efficiently to any other kind of energy .
Sometimes this occurs with an efficiency of essentially 100 % , such as when potential energy is  परिवर्तित to गतिज उर्जा as an ऑब्जेक्ट जलप्रपात in वैक्यूम , or जब it orbits nearer  or farther from another object , in space .
Conversion of other types of  energies to ऊष्मा may भी occurs साथ  nearly perfect efficiency ( many types of friction do this ) .
Exceptions for perfect conversion efficiency ( even for isolated systems ) occur when energy has already been partly  वितरित among अनेक उपलब्धियाँ क्वांटम राज्य लिये a संग्रहण of अणु , जिससे हैं freely अनुमत to explore  any state of momentum and position ( phase space ) .
In such circumstances , a measure called Entropy , or  evening-out of उर्जा वितरण in ऐसे राज्य , dictates  that future states of the system must be of at least equal evenness in energy distribution .
( There is no way , taking the universe as a whole , to collect  उर्जा into कम राज्य , एकबार it रै  spread to them ) .
A consequence of this requirement is that there are limitations to the efficiency with which thermal energy can be converted to other kinds of energy , since thermal energy in equilibrium at a given temperature already represents the maximal  evening-out of उर्जा between सब संभावित राज्य  .
Such energy is  sometimes माना `` degraded  energy , '' because it is not entirely usable .
The second law of thermodynamics is a way of stating that , for this reason , thermal  उर्जा in a प्रणाली may be परिवर्तित to अन्य kinds of उर्जा साथ efficiencies approaching 100 % , तभी if the एन्ट्रॉपी ( even-ness or विकार ) of the ब्रह्मांड is increased  by other means , to compensate for the decrease in entropy associated with the disappearance of the thermal energy and its entropy content .
Otherwise , only a part of thermal energy may be converted to other kinds of energy ( and thus , useful work ) , since the remainder of the heat must be reserved to be transferred to a thermal reservoir at a lower  तापमान , in ऐसे a रास्ता कि the बढ़ाएँ in एन्ट्रॉपी लिये इस प्रक्रम अधिक than compensates लिये the एन्ट्रॉपी घटी संबद्ध साथ परिवर्तन of the बाकी of the ऊष्मा into अन्य प्रकार  of energy .
The National Hockey League ( NHL ; ) is an `` unincorporated not-for-profit association '' which operates a major professional ice hockey league of  30 franchised सदस्य क्लब , of जिससे सात हैं फिलहाल स्तिथ in कनाडा  and 23 in the United States .
Headquartered in New York City , the NHL is widely considered to be the premier professional ice  हॉकी लीग in the संसार , और एक of the प्रमुख पेशेवर खेल लीग in the संयुक्त  States and Canada .
The Stanley Cup , the oldest  पेशेवर खेल ट्रॉफी in उत्तर अमेरिका  , is awarded annually to the league playoff champion at the end of each season .
The league was organized on November 26 , 1917 , in Montreal , Quebec , Canada  , बाद the बर्खास्तगी of परिचालन of इसके पूर्ववर्ती संगठन , the नेशनल हॉकी संघ  ( NHA ) , which had been founded in 1909 .
It started with four teams and ,  through a श्रेणी of expansions , contractions  , and relocations , the league is now composed of 30 active franchises .
The nation to  जिससे the नाम of the लीग originally referred थी कनाडा  , although the league has now been binational since 1924 when it expanded into the United States .
After a labour dispute that led to the cancellation of the entire 2004–05 season , the league resumed play under a new collective  bargaining अनुबंध कि शामिल a सैलरी कैप .
In 2009 , the NHL enjoyed record  highs in शर्तें of sponsorships , उपस्थिति , और टेलीविज़न  audiences .
The  एनएचएल draws अनेक अत्यधिक skilled खिलाड़ी इससे  all over the world and currently has players from about 20 different countries .
Although Canadians have  historically गठित the बहुमत of the खिलाड़ी in the एनएचएल , over the पास्ट चार प्लस दशकों the percentages of us और यूरोपीय खिलाड़ी  have increased both because of the NHL 's continued expansion from six to thirty clubs since 1967 , and the increased availability of highly skilled European players .
This is the complete list  of the ratified और unratified amendments to the संयुक्त राज्य  Constitution which received the approval of the United States Congress .
Twenty-seven amendments have been ratified since the original signing of the  संविधान , the पहला टेन of जिससे हैं ज्ञात collectively as  the Bill of Rights .
The procedure  लिये amending the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान  is governed by Article V of the original text .
There have been many other proposals for amendments to the  संयुक्त राज्य संविधान introduced in कॉंग्रेस , लकिन नहीं सुपुर्द  to the states .
Before an amendment can take effect , it must be proposed to the states by a two-thirds vote of both houses of Congress or by a convention ( known as an Article V convention ) called  by two-thirds of the राज्य , और ratified by three-fourths of the राज्य or by three-fourths of प्रथाओं thereof , the विधि of अनुसमर्थन होने संकल्पित by कॉंग्रेस  at the time of proposal .
To date , no convention for proposing  amendments रै महरूम पुकारा by the राज्य , और तभी once—in  1933 for the ratification of the twenty-first amendment —has the convention method of ratification been employed .
FMR LLC ( Fidelity Management and Research ) or Fidelity Investments is an  अमरीकी बहुराष्ट्रीय वित्तीय सेवाएं निगम  .
It is one of the  largest परस्पर निधि और वित्तीय  services groups in the world .
It was founded in 1946 and serves  उत्तर  American investors .
Fidelity Ventures is  इसके venture पूंजी  arm .
Fidelity International Limited ( FIL ) , was an  अंतरराष्ट्रीय संबद्ध संस्थापित in 1969 , सेवारत  most countries in the rest of the world .
In September 2011 , FIL was rebranded  as 'fidelity विश्वव्यापी निवेश  ' .
Fidelity Investments manages a large family of mutual funds , provides fund distribution and investment advice services , as well as providing discount brokerage services , retirement services , wealth management ,  प्रतिभूति निष्पादन और क्लीयरेंस , जीवन बीमे  and a number of other services .
जून 2006 थी the  sixth month of that year .
It began on a  गुरुवार और ended बाद 30  days on a Friday The following events also occurred during the month:
Sociology is the scientific study of human society and its origins ,  विकास , संगठन ,  and institutions .
It is a social science which uses various methods of empirical investigation and  नाजुक विश्लेषण to develop a देह of ज्ञान परिचय इंसान सोशल  activity , structures , and functions .
A goal for many sociologists is to conduct research which may be  लागू सीधे to सोशल नीति  and welfare , while others focus primarily on refining the theoretical understanding of social processes .
Subject matter ranges from the micro level of individual agency and interaction to the macro  स्तर of प्रणालियों और the सोशल  structure .
The traditional focuses of sociology  शामिल सोशल स्तरीकरण , सोशल क्लास , संस्कृति , रेस  and ethnicity , gender and sexuality , social mobility , religion , secularization , law , and deviance .
As all spheres of  इंसान कार्यकलाप हैं प्रभावित by the interplay between सोशल ढांचा और व्यक्तिगत एजेंसी , समाजशास्त्र रै धीरे विस्तारित इसके फ़ोकस to  further subjects , such as health , medical , military and penal institutions , the Internet , environmental sociology , political economy and the role of social activity in the development of scientific knowledge .
The range of social  वैज्ञानिक विधि रै भी  expanded .
Social researchers draw upon a variety of  गुणात्मक और quantitative  techniques .
The linguistic and cultural turns of the mid-twentieth century led to increasingly  interpretative , hermeneutic , और philosophic approaches  to the analysis of society .
Conversely , recent decades have seen the rise of new analytically , mathematically and computationally  कठोर तकनीकों , ऐसे as agent-based मॉडलिंग और  social network analysis .
Sociology should not be confused with various general social studies  पाठ्यक्रम जिससे भालू छोटी संबंध to समाजशास्त्रीय  theory or social science research methodology .
Thunder is the  ध्वनि caused  by lightning .
Depending on the nature of the  बिजली और अलहदा of the श्रोता , थंडर  can range from a sharp , loud crack to a long , low rumble ( brontide ) .
The sudden  बढ़ाएँ in दबाव और तापमान इससे बिजली  produces rapid expansion of the air surrounding and within a bolt of lightning .
In  फेरे , इस विस्तार of एयर creates a सोनिक शॉक  wave , similar to a sonic boom , which produces the sound of thunder , often referred to as a clap , crack , or peal of thunder .
The distance of  the बिजली can be गणना by the श्रोता  based on the time interval from when the lightning is seen to when the sound is heard .
Palma ( , , ) , in full Palma de Mallorca , is  the प्रमुख नगर और बंदरगाहों on the द्वीप of majorca ( mallorca  ) and capital city of the autonomous community of the Balearic Islands in Spain .
The names  ciutat de mallorca ( नगर of majorca ) और ciutat ( नगर ) यहूद प्रयुक्त पहले  the War of the Spanish Succession and are still used by people in Majorca .
However , the official name  थी mallorca , the वही  as the island .
It is  situated on the दक्षिण coast of the द्वीप  on the Bay of Palma .
As of the 2009 census , the population of the city of Palma proper was 401,270 , and the  जनसांख्यिकी of the संपूर्ण शहरी क्षेत्रफल थी 517,285 , रैंकिंग as the बारहवीं  largest urban area of Spain .
Almost half of  the कुल जनसांख्यिकी of majorca  live in Palma .
The  cabrera द्वीपसमूह , हालांकि widely अलग इससे पालमा उचित ,  is administratively considered part of the municipality .
Its  विमानक्षेत्र , बेटे सन्त  Joan , serves over 22 million passengers each year .
The Marivent Palace  थी offered by the नगर to  the then Prince Juan Carlos I of Spain .
The royals have  चूंकि खर्च उनके गर्मियाँ  holidays in Palma .
Luthor  redirects  here .
For  अन्य उपयोग , देखिए लूथर  ( disambiguation ) .
Alexander Joseph `` Lex '' Luthor is a fictional character , a  supervillain appearing in कॉमिक किताबे प्रकाशित by dc कॉमिक्स  .
Luthor is  the archenemy of सुपरमैन , और as a high-status supervillain , रै  also come into conflict with Batman and other superheroes in the DC Universe .
Created by Jerry Siegel  और जो shuster , the अक्षर पहला appeared in  Action Comics # 23 ( April 1940 ) .
luthor is वर्णित as `` a power-mad , दुष्ट  scientist '' of high intelligence and incredible technological prowess .
Luthor 's goals typically  बीच on हत्या सुपरमैन , the foremost बाधा  to achieving the villain 's megalomaniacal goals .
Despite periodically wearing a powered exoskeleton ,  luthor रै traditionally lacked  superpowers or a dual identity .
The character was originally depicted as a mad scientist who , in  the रग of गूदा novels , wreaks कहर on the संसार साथ  his futuristic weaponry .
In his earliest  दिखावे , luthor is दिखाया साथ a पूरा सिर  of red hair .
Despite this , the character  बाद became hairless as  the result of an artist 's mistake .
A 1960 story by Jerry Siegel expanded upon Luthor 's origin and motivations , revealing him to be a childhood friend of Superman 's who lost his hair when a fire  नष्ट उसके प्रयोगशाला ; luthor vowed  revenge .
Following the 1985 limited series Crisis on Infinite Earths , the character was re-imagined as a Machiavellian industrialist and  white-collar दण्ड , भी briefly सेवारत as अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त  States .
In recent years ,  विभिन्न लेखक have  revived Luthor 's mad scientist persona from the 1940s .
The character was  क्रमित as the 8th महानतम विलेन  by Wizard on its 100 Greatest Villains of All Time list .
IGN 's list of the Top 100 Comic Book Villains of  सब समय क्रमित luthor  as # 4 .
luthor is भी वर्णित as a `` megavillain '' by कॉमिक किताब आलोचक पीटर sanderson , एक of a few genre-crossing  villains whose adventures take place `` in a world in which the ordinary laws of nature are slightly suspended '' ; characters such as Professor Moriarty , Count Dracula , Hannibal Lecter , Doctor Doom , and Darth Vader , also fit this description .
Martin Luther King , Jr. Day is a United States federal holiday  अंकन the जन्मदिवस of रेव . dr. मार्टिन लूथर  King , Jr .
It is observed on the  तीसरा सोमवार of जनवरी प्रत्येक साल , जिससे is around the समय  of King 's birthday , January 15 .
The floating holiday is similar to holidays set under the Uniform  सोमवार अवकाश अधिनियम , हालांकि the अधिनियम predated the  establishment of Martin Luther King , Jr. Day by 15 years .
King was the chief spokesman for nonviolent  सक्रियता in the सिविल अधिकारों गति , जिससे सफलतापूर्वक  protested racial discrimination in federal and state law .
The  अभियान लिये a संघीय अवकाश in किंग 's सम्मान  began soon after his assassination in 1968 .
Ronald Reagan signed the holiday into  विधि in 1983 , और it थी पहला observed  on January 20 , 1986 .
At first , some states resisted observing the  अवकाश as ऐसे , giving it वैकल्पिक  names or combining it with other holidays .
It was officially  observed in सब 50 राज्य लिये the पहला  time in 2000 .
The camera phone solution  allows तत्काल sharing  of pictures .
As it 's automatic and instant , the  उपयोक्ता करता नहीं have to उपयोग a केबल or removable  media to connect to a personal computer .
A camera  फोन is a मोबाईल फोन जिससे is समर्थ to कैप्चर  still photographs ( and usually video ) .
Since early in the 21st century the majority  of मोबाईल फोन in उपयोग  are camera phones .
Most camera  फोन हैं simpler  than separate digital cameras .
Their usual fixed focus lenses and smaller  सेंसर सीमा उनके प्रदर्शन  in poor lighting .
Lacking a physical shutter ,  सबसे have a long शटर  lag .
Flash , where  उपस्थित , is प्रायः  weak .
Optical  जूम और तिपाई  screws are rare .
Some also lack a USB  कनेक्शन , removable मेमोरी कार्ड , or अन्य रास्ता of transferring  their pictures more quickly than by the phone 's inherent communication feature .
Some of the more expensive camera phones have only a few of these  तकनीकी disadvantages , जिससे लागू सबसे acutely in कम लाइट शर्तें और  in any case have not inhibited their widespread use .
Most model lines improve in  ये प्रणाम प्रत्येक साल  or two .
Some , such as the Droid Incredible  तभी have a मेनू चुनाव to प्रारंभ an अनुप्रयोग  program to activate the camera .
Others , such as the BlackBerry Storm 2 , Droid  x , मोटोरोला v980 और नोकिया 5800 भी have  a separate camera button for quickness and convenience .
Windows Phones can  be विन्यस्त to operate as a कैमरा  even if the phone is asleep .
Some camera phones are designed to resemble separate low-end digital compact cameras in appearance and to some extent in features and picture quality  , और हैं ब्रांडेड as दोनो मोबाईल फोन और कैमरे  , including certain Sony phones .
The principal advantages of camera phones are cost  और compactness ; बेशक लिये a उपयोक्ता जो carries a मोबाईल फोन वैसे  , the additional size and cost are negligible .
Smartphones that are camera phones may run mobile  अनुप्रयोग to add सामर्थ्य ऐसे  as geotagging and image stitching .
A few high end phones can use their touch screen to  सीधा उनके कैमरा to फ़ोकस on a particular ऑब्जेक्ट in the फ़ील्ड of दृश्य , giving भी an अनुभवहीन उपयोक्ता a उपाधि of फ़ोकस कंट्रोल  exceeded only by seasoned photographers using manual focus .
`` Whatever Happened to  the man of कल ? '' is a 1986 कॉमिक किताब स्टोरी featuring  the DC Comics character of Superman .
Written by Alan Moore with help from long-time , and soon to be retiring , Superman editor , Julius Schwartz , the story was  प्रकाशित in दो भाग , शुरूआत in सुपरमैन # 423 और समाप्ति in कार्रवाई कॉमिक्स # 583 , दोनो  published in September 1986 .
The story was drawn by long-time artist Curt Swan , in his final major  योगदान to the सुपरमैन शीर्षक , और थी inked by जार्ज pérez in the समस्या  of Superman and Kurt Schaffenberger in the issue of Action Comics .
The story was an imaginary tale which told the final story of the Silver Age Superman and his long history , which was being  rebooted following the कार्यक्रम of संकट on अनन्त earths , पहले उसके आधुनिक परिचय in the जॉन byrne श्रेणी  , The Man of Steel .
Moore wanted his plot to honor the long history  of the अक्षर और to serve  as a complete conclusion to his mythology .
The story is a frame story set ten years after Superman was last seen ,  जहाँ लोइस लेन recounts the टेल of the समाप्त of सुपरमैन 's करियर  to a reporter from the Daily Planet .
Her story  शामिल numerous हिंसक हमले विरूद्ध सुपरमैन by उसके दुश्मनों , the पब्लिक  revelation of his secret identity of Clark Kent and a number of deaths of those closest to him .
The story has  महरूम cited as एक of the बेहतरीन कहानियां  of the character of Superman , and critics and audiences frequently choose it as one of the most memorable comics ever published .
It  is प्रयुक्त as an उदाहरण of कैसा to बंद  the long-time continuity of a comic book character .
The story 's legacy has  endured साथ समान कहानियां लिखा  as tributes to it .
The title is a reference to one of the nicknames of Superman  as the man of कल , और थी प्रयुक्त in the  title of another Superman .
The Bugatti Veyron EB 16.4 is a mid-engined grand  touring car , designed और विकसित by the volkswagen  Group and manufactured in Molsheim , France by Bugatti Automobiles S.A.S .
The  सुपर खेल संस्करण of the veyron is the  fastest street-legal production car in the world , with a top speed of .
The original  संस्करण रै a शीर्ष गति  of .
It was named Car of the Decade ( 2000–2009 )  by the बीबीसी टेलीविज़न कार्यक्रम  Top Gear .
The  मानक veyron जीती शीर्ष  Gears Best Car Driven All Year award in 2005 .
On 6 April 2013 , Bugatti set the record for the fastest roadster in the world with the  veyron ग्रैंड खेल vitesse , reaching on औसत a  top speed of .
The Veyron 's chief designer was Hartmut  warkuss , और the exterior थी designed by jozef kabaň of volkswagen , साथ much of the अभियान्त्रिकी कार्य होने conducted अंतर्गत  the guidance of engineering chief Wolfgang Schreiber .
A number of  खास विसंगतियाँ have  been produced .
In  दिसम्बर 2010 , bugatti began offering prospective खरीदार the क्षमता to मनपसंद exterior और  interiors colours by using the Veyron 16.4 Configurator application on the marque 's official website .
The institution of the Eucharist has been a key theme in the depictions of the Last Supper in Christian  आर्ट , as in इस 16th-century जुआन de juanes पेंटिंग  .
`` At the Last Supper , on the night he was betrayed , our Savior  instituted the eucharistic बलिदान of उसके  Body and Blood . ''
( Catechism of the  कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर 1323  )
Eucharist in the Catholic Church refers to both the celebration of the  द्रव्यमान , कि is , the eucharist  liturgy , and the bread and wine which after the consecration are transubstantiated ( changed in substance ) into the body and blood of Jesus Christ , Lord and God , a declaration formulated by the Council of Trent with an anathema against anyone who denied this .
Blessed Sacrament is a devotional term used in the Roman Catholic Church to refer to the Eucharistic species ( the  देह और रक्त  of Christ ) .
The following is a  सूची of कॉलेजों और विश्वविद्यालयों  in the U.S. state of Louisiana .
A short story is a  ब्रैड कार्य of साहित्य , प्रायः  written in narrative prose .
Emerging from earlier oral storytelling  परंपराओं in the 17th सदी , the छोटी स्टोरी रै grown  to encompass a body of work so diverse as to defy easy characterization .
At its most prototypical the  छोटी स्टोरी सुविधाएँ a छोटी  cast of named characters , and focuses on a self-contained incident with the intent of evoking a `` single effect '' or mood .
In so  doing , छोटी कहानियां मेक उपयोग of प्लाट , अनुनाद  , and other dynamic components to a far greater degree than is typical of an anecdote , yet to a far lesser degree than a novel .
While the short story is  largely पृथक इससे the अनोखा , लेखक  of both generally draw from a common pool of literary techniques .
Short stories have  no नियत लंबाई  .
In terms of word count there is  no आधिकारिक demarcation  between an anecdote , a short story , and a novel .
Rather , the form 's parameters are  दिए by the rhetorical और व्यावहारिक कॉन्टेक्स्ट in जिससे a दिए स्टोरी is उत्पादित  and considered , so that what constitutes a short story may differ between genres , countries , eras , and commentators .
Like the novel , the short story 's predominant shape reflects the demands of  the उपलब्धियाँ बाज़ार लिये प्रकाशन , और the एवोल्यूशन of the रूप seems closely tied to the एवोल्यूशन of the प्रकाशन उद्योग और the सबमिशन  guidelines of its constituent houses .
The short story has been  माना दोनो an शिक्षुता रूप preceding अधिक lengthy  works , and a crafted form in its own right , collected together in books of similar length , price , and distribution as novels .
Short story writers may  define उनके works as भाग of the कलाकारी और निजी  expression of the form .
They may also attempt to resist  categorization by विधा और फिक्स्ड रूप  .
Area codes  in मिशिगन
Area code 810 is the telephone  क्षेत्रफल कोड सेवारत पूर्वी  Michigan .
The raccoon ( , Procyon lotor ) , sometimes spelled racoon , also known as the common raccoon , North American raccoon  , उत्तरी raccoon और colloquially as कून , is a medium-sized स्तनधारी देशी  to North America .
The raccoon  is the largest of the procyonid परिवार  , having a body length of and a body weight of .
Its grayish coat  ज़्यादातर consists of घना underfur जिससे  insulates against cold weather .
Two of the raccoon 's most distinctive features are its  अत्यधिक dexterous सामने पंजे और इसके फेशियल मुखौटा ,  which are themes in the mythology of several Native American tribes .
Raccoons are noted for their intelligence , with studies showing that they are able to  याद the समाधान to कार्य लिये up to तीन  years .
The diet of the omnivorous raccoon  , जिससे is प्रायः nocturnal , consists of परिचय  40 % invertebrates , 33 % plant foods , and 27 % vertebrates .
The original habitats of the raccoon are deciduous and  मिश्रित वनों , लकिन due to उनके adaptability वे have विस्तारित उनके दायरा  to mountainous areas , coastal marshes , and urban areas , where some homeowners consider them to be pests .
As a result of escapes and deliberate introductions in the mid-20th century , raccoons are  अभी भी वितरित आरपार the यूरोपीय मेनलैंड , the काकेशस  region and Japan .
Though previously thought to be solitary ,  वहीँ is अभी प्रमाण कि raccoons engage in gender-specific  social behavior .
Related females often share a common area , while unrelated males live together in groups of up to four animals to  maintain उनके स्थितियाँ विरूद्ध विदेशी males दौरान  the mating season , and other potential invaders .
Home range sizes vary anywhere from 3 hectares ( 7 acres ) for  महिलाओं in शहरों to 50 km2  ( 20 sq mi ) for males in prairies .
बाद a gestation काल of परिचय  65 days , two to five young , known as `` kits '' , are born in spring .
The kits are subsequently raised by  उनके माँ जबतक dispersion  in late fall .
Although captive raccoons have been known to live over 20 years , their average life  प्रत्याशा in the जंगली is तभी  1.8 to 3.1 years .
In many areas , hunting and  vehicular चोट  are the two most common causes of death .
The 2010 Haiti earthquake was a catastrophic magnitude 7.0 Mw earthquake ,  साथ an उपरिकेंद्र निकट the कस्बा of léogâne ( ouest विभाग ) , लगभग  west of Port-au-Prince , Haiti 's capital .
The  भूकंप occurred at 16:53 लोकल समय ( 21:53  UTC ) on Tuesday , 12 January 2010 .
By 24 January , at  तनिक 52 aftershocks measuring  4.5 or greater had been recorded .
An estimated three million  लोगों यहूद प्रभावित  by the quake .
The highest reliable  मौत गिनती थी अनुमानित  at 220,000 .
Haitian government  estimates यहूद  higher .
The government of Haiti  अनुमानित कि 250,000 निवास और 30,000  commercial buildings had collapsed or were severely damaged .
The earthquake caused major damage in  port-au-prince , jacmel और अन्य settlements  in the region .
Many  notable लैंडमार्क इमारतें यहूद significantly क्षतिग्रस्त or नष्ट , सहित the अध्यक्षीय  Palace , the National Assembly building , the Port-au-Prince Cathedral , and the main jail .
Among those killed were Archbishop of Port-au-Prince Joseph  सर्ज miot , और विपक्ष  leader Micha Gaillard .
The headquarters of the United Nations Stabilization  मिशन in हैती ( minustah ) , स्तिथ in the पूंजी , collapsed  , killing many , including the Mission 's Chief , Hédi Annabi .
Many countries responded to appeals for humanitarian aid ,  pledging निधि और dispatching बचाव और चिकित्सा  teams , engineers and support personnel .
Communication systems , air , land , and sea transport facilities , hospitals , and electrical networks had been damaged by the earthquake , which  hampered बचाव और सहायता प्रयत्न ; भ्रम over जो थी in चार्ज  , air traffic congestion , and problems with prioritisation of flights further complicated early relief work .
Port-au-Prince 's morgues were  अभिभूत साथ  tens of thousands of bodies .
These had to be  दफ्न in द्रव्यमान  graves .
As  छुटकारा tailed बंद ,  supplies , medical care and sanitation became priorities .
Delays in aid distribution led to angry appeals  इससे सहायता मजदूर और survivors , और  looting and sporadic violence were observed .
On 22 January the United Nations  विख्यात कि the आपात phase of the राहत आपरेशन थी आरेखण to a बंद , और on the following  day the Haitian government officially called off the search for survivors .
Mister Ed is a fictional talking horse , originally appearing in short stories by Walter R. Brooks , and later in an American television situation comedy produced by Filmways that first aired  in अनुप्रयोग इससे जनवरी 5 to जुलाई 2 , 1961 , और तब on  CBS from October 1 , 1961 to February 6 , 1966 .
The stars of the show were  मिस्टर ed , a palomino घोड़ा जो could `` बात '' , निभाई by gelding बाँसुरी harvester  and voiced by former Western star Allan Lane ( who went uncredited for the entire length of the series ) , and his owner , an eccentric and enormously klutzy , yet friendly , architect named Wilbur Post ( Alan Young ) .
much of the कार्यक्रम 's  humor stemmed from the fact Mister Ed would speak only to Wilbur , as well as Ed 's notoriety as a troublemaker .
Other running jokes centered on Wilbur 's  अक्षर होने a विशाल klutz और inadvertently causing  harm to himself or others .
According to the show 's producer , Arthur Lubin , Young was chosen as the lead character  क्युकी he `` बस लगा जैसे the sort of guy  a horse would talk to '' .
Lubin , a friend of Mae  वेस्ट , scored a तख्तापलट  by persuading the screen icon to guest star in one episode .
In the United States , reruns aired on Nick  at नाइट इससे कूच 3 , 1986 , to  February 1 , 1993 .
Sister station  tv जमीन भी reran  the show from 1996–98 and again from 2003-06 .
The series  is फिलहाल ब्रॉडकास्ट प्रत्येक morning on इस tv  , along with Highway Patrol , and The Patty Duke Show .
It  is भी फिलहाल ब्रॉडकास्ट on hallmark  Movie Channel .
As of January 1 , 2011 , the first two  सीज़न of the दिखाएँ हैं  available on Hulu .
The Rapture is a term in Christian eschatology which  refers to the `` होने caught up '' discussed in 1 thessalonians 4:17 ,  when the `` dead in Christ '' and `` we who are alive and remain '' will be `` caught up in the clouds '' to meet `` the Lord in the air '' .
the पद `` rapture '' is प्रयुक्त  in at least two senses .
In the pre-tribulation  दृश्य , a समूह of लोगों होगा be  left behind on earth after another group literally leaves `` to meet the Lord in the air . ''
This is  अभी the सबसे आम उपयोग of the  term , especially among fundamentalist Christians and in the United States .
The other , older use of the term `` Rapture '' is simply as a synonym for the final  क़यामत generally , बगैर a विश्वास कि a समूह of लोगों is बाएँ पीछे on धरती लिये an विस्तारित tribulation  period after the events of 1 Thessalonians 4:17 .
This distinction is important as  कुछ प्रकार of christianity never refer to `` the rapture '' in धार्मिक  education , but might use the older and more general sense of the word `` rapture '' in referring to what happens during the final resurrection .
There are many views among Christians regarding the timing of Christ 's return ( including whether it will occur in one event or two ) ,  और विभिन्न दृश्य regarding the गंतव्य of the aerial महफ़िल वर्णित  in 1 Thessalonians 4 .
Denominations such as Roman Catholics , Orthodox Christians , Lutheran Christians , and Reformed Christians believe in a  rapture तभी  in the sense of a general final resurrection , when Christ returns a single time .
They do not believe that a  समूह of लोगों is बाएँ पीछे on धरती लिये an विस्तारित  Tribulation period after the events of 1 Thessalonians 4:17 .
Pre-tribulation rapture theology was developed in the 1830s by John Nelson Darby and the Plymouth Brethren ,  और popularized in the संयुक्त राज्य in the जल्दी 20th सदी by the चौड़ी परिसंचरण  of the Scofield Reference Bible .
Kris Nathan Humphries ( born February 6  , 1985 ) is an अमरीकी पेशेवर बास्केट  player with the Brooklyn Nets .
The Philistine cities  of गाजा , ashdod  , Ashkelon , Ekron , and Gath
The Philistines ( , , , or ; , Plištim ) , Pleshet or Peleset , were a people who as part of the Sea Peoples  appeared in the दक्षिणी तटीय क्षेत्रफल of canaan at the शुरूआत of the आयरन आयु  ( circa 1175 BC ) , most probably from the Aegean region .
According to the Bible , they ruled the five city-states ( the `` Philistine Pentapolis '' ) of Gaza , Ashkelon , Ashdod  , ekron और gath , इससे wadi गाजा in the दक्षिण to the yarqon नदी in the उत्तर , लकिन  with no fixed border to the east .
The  बाइबल paints उन्हें as the किंगडम  of Israel 's most dangerous enemy .
Originating somewhere in the Aegean , their population was around 25,000 in the 12th century BC , rising to a peak of  30,000 in the 11th सदी bc , of जिससे the ईजियन तत्व थी नहीं अधिक than हाफ the कुल  , and perhaps much less .
Nothing is known for certain about the original language or  भाषाएं of the philistines  , however they were not part of the Semitic Canaanite population .
There is some limited evidence in favour of the assumption that the  philistines यहूद indo-european-speakers either इससे यूनानियों and/or luwian  speakers from the coast of Asia Minor .
Philistine-related  शब्द मिला in the बाइबल हैं नहीं सामीती , और can in कुछ  cases , with reservations , be traced back to Proto-Indo-European roots .
By the  शुरूआत of the 1st मिलेनियम bce वे था अपनाया  the general Canaanite language of the region .
The Armed Services Vocational Aptitude Battery ( ASVAB ) is a multiple choice test , administered by the United States Military Entrance  प्रसंस्करण कमांड , प्रयुक्त to determine योग्यता लिये  enlistment in the United States armed forces .
It is often offered  to अमरीकी ऊँची स्कूल विद्यार्थी जब वे हैं  in the 10th , 11th and 12th grade , though anyone eligible for enlistment may take it .
Although the test is administered by the  सैन्य , it is नहीं ( और never रै महरूम ) a आवश्यकता  that a test-taker with a qualifying score enlist in the armed forces .
In financial accounting , a balance sheet or statement of financial  स्थिति is a सारांश of the वित्तीय balances of a एकमात्र बंदोबस्त  , a business partnership , a corporation or other business organization , such as an LLC or an LLP .
Assets , liabilities and ownership equity are listed as of a  विशिष्ट तिथि , ऐसे as the  end of its financial year .
a संतुलन चादर is  often described as a `` snapshot of a company 's financial condition '' .
Of the four basic financial statements , the balance sheet  is the तभी बयान जिससे applies to a सिंगल पाइंट  in time of a business ' calendar year .
A standard company balance sheet has  तीन भाग : एसेट  , liabilities and ownership equity .
The main categories of  एसेट हैं प्रायः सूचीबद्ध  first , and typically in order of liquidity .
Assets  हैं followed by the  liabilities .
The difference between the assets and the liabilities is known as  इक्विटी or the जाल एसेट or the जाल लायक or पूंजी of the कम्पनी और according to the हिसाब समीकरण , जाल लायक  must equal assets minus liabilities .
Another way to look at the same equation is that assets equals  देनदारी प्लस मालिक 's इक्विटी  .
Looking at the equation in this way shows how assets were financed : either by borrowing money (  देयता ) or by using the मालिक 's धन ( मालिक 's इक्विटी )  .
Balance sheets are usually presented  साथ एसेट in एक खण्ड और देनदारी और जाल लायक in  the other section with the two sections `` balancing . ''
A  कारोबार ऑपरेटिंग entirely in नकदी can माप  its profits by withdrawing the entire bank balance at the end of the period , plus any cash in hand .
however , अनेक व्यवसायों हैं नहीं सशुल्क तत्काल  ; they build up inventories of goods and they acquire buildings and equipment .
In other words : businesses have assets and so they can not , even if they want to ,  तत्काल फेरे ये into नकदी at the समाप्त of प्रत्येक काल  .
Often , these businesses owe money to suppliers and to tax authorities , and the proprietors do not withdraw  सब उनके असली पूंजी और profits at the समाप्त of प्रत्येक  period .
In other words businesses also  have देनदारी  .
.17 Hornady Magnum Rimfire  , commonly ज्ञात as the .17  HMR , is a rimfire rifle cartridge developed by the ammunition company Hornady in 2002 .
It descended from the .22 Magnum by necking down the .22 Magnum case to take a .17 caliber ( 4.5 mm ) bullet , and it is more costly to shoot than traditional .22 caliber rimfire  कारतूस  .
Commonly loaded with a 17 grain ( 1.1  g ) गोली , it can उद्धार muzzle गतियाँ in excess  of 2550 ft/s ( 775 m/s ) .
The Schaumburg Flyers were a professional baseball team  आधारित in schaumburg , इलिनोइस , in the संयुक्त  States .
The Flyers were to be a charter member of the North American League , which is not affiliated with Major League Baseball ,  however , the टोली folded in कूच 2011 , पहले वे began  play in the NAL .
इससे the 1999 ऋतु to the  2010 season , the Flyers played their home games at Alexian Field , near the Elgin O'Hare Expressway .
The  टोली formerly निभाई in थंडर खाड़ी , ओंटारियो , जहाँ वे यहूद  known as the Thunder Bay Whiskey Jacks .
The team was originally a member  of the उत्तरी लीग इससे  1993 to 2010 .
On July 27 , 2009 , the Flyers played host to Battle of the Sexes II , which pitted the Flyers against the National Pro  fastpitch सॉफ्टबॉल champions  , the Chicago Bandits .
Played by  आधिकारिक सॉफ्टबॉल नियम , the  game was seen by an overflow record crowd of 8,918 , and was won by the Bandits 4-2 .
In 1999 , the Flyers hired their  पहला मैनेजर , रॉन kittle  .
Kittle is best known for his playing days with the Chicago White Sox , and former Chicago Cubs and White  sox खिलाड़ी ग्रेग hibbard थी the pitching  coach .
दौरान the जल्दी सालो of the मताधिकार , kittle किया a श्रेणी of  TV commercials to promote the team , using the gimmick `` Ma Kittle . '' where he played both himself and his `` Ma . ''
The ads were successful at sparking some initial  ब्याज in the टोली as the flyers hoped  to steal away fans from the nearby Kane County Cougars .
The ad mimicked the highly successful Converse  विज्ञापन जहाँ लैरी जॉनसन स्ट्रक्चर as दोनो खुद और `` gramama  . ''
At the end of the 2001  ऋतु , however , kittle resigned इससे उसके  managerial position , and Jim Boynewicz was hired to replace him .
In 2004 , the  flyers बना it to the उत्तरी  League Championship Series against the St. Paul Saints .
Despite leading the  five-game श्रेणी 2-1  , Schaumburg eventually lost the series .
In Game 5 , Flyers relief pitcher Lyle Prempas allowed a game winning  ग्रैंड स्लैम by st. पॉल infielder मार्क mirizzi  in the ninth inning .
The Flyers appeared in the Northern  लीग playoffs चार टाइम्स ( 1999 , 2003 , 2004 , 2006 ) लकिन  never won the championship .
Some famous players who played for the Flyers were former  ओकलैंड a 's outfielder ozzie canseco और पूर्व शिकागो  Cubs outfielder Dwight Smith .
रेचल हन्ना वाइज़ ( / वाइस / ; born 7 कूच  1970 ) is an English film and theatre actress and former fashion model .
Weisz began her acting  करियर at ट्रिनिटी हॉल , कैम्ब्रिज in the जल्दी 1990s , तब प्रारंभ working in टेलीविज़न , appearing in इंस्पेक्टर मोर्स , the अंग्रेजों  mini-series Scarlet and Black , and the television film Advocates II .
She made her film début in the film Death Machine ( 1994 ) ,  लकिन उसके भेदन भूमिका आए in the फिल्मी कड़ी प्रतिक्रिया ( 1996 ) , अग्रणी to a high-profile भूमिका as  Evelyn Carnahan-O'Connell in the films The Mummy ( 1999 ) and The Mummy Returns ( 2001 ) .
Other notable films featuring Weisz are Enemy at the Gates , About a Boy , Constantine , The  फव्वारा और the निरंतर माली , लिये जिससे वो प्राप्त an अकादमी पुरस्कार , a सुनहरी ग्लोब और a स्क्रीन अभिनेताओं  ' Guild award for her supporting role as Tessa Quayle .
She has been labelled an `` English  रोज़ '' चूंकि उसके नाबालिग भूमिका in चोरी  Beauty ( 1996 ) .
वाइज़ भी  works in theatre .
Her  स्टेज भेदन थी the 1994 पुनरुद्धार  of Noël Coward 's play Design for Living , which earned her the London Critics Circle Award for the most promising newcomer .
Weisz 's performances also include the 1999 Donmar Warehouse  उत्पादन of टेनेसी विलियम्स ' एकाएक , पिछला गर्मियाँ , और उनके 2009 पुनरुद्धार of a स्ट्रीटकार  Named Desire .
Her portrayal of Blanche DuBois in the  latter खेल अर्जित उसके the आलोचकों ' वृत्त  Theatre Award for Best Actress .
She has recently played  evanora in oz the ग्रेट और  Powerful .
The American Civil War ( ACW ) , also known as the War between the States or simply the Civil War ( see naming ) , was a civil war fought from 1861 to 1865 between the United States ( the `` Union '' or the `` North '' )  और अनेक दक्षिणी स्लेव राज्य कि घोषित उनके secession और formed the confederate  States of America ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ) .
The war had its origin in the issue  of गुलामी , विशेषकर  the extension of slavery into the western territories .
Foreign powers did not  intervene  .
After four years of bloody combat that left over 600,000 soldiers dead and destroyed much of the South 's infrastructure , the Confederacy collapsed , slavery was abolished  , और the मुश्किल पुनर्निर्माण प्रक्रम of restoring नेशनल एकता और guaranteeing अधिकारों to the freed  slaves began .
In the 1860 presidential election , Republicans , led by Abraham Lincoln , opposed expanding  गुलामी into संयुक्त  States ' territories .
Lincoln won , but before his inauguration on  कूच 4 , 1861 , सात  cotton-based slave states formed the Confederacy .
Outgoing  लोकतांत्रिक अध्यक्ष जेम्स बुकानन और  the incoming Republicans rejected secession as illegal .
Lincoln 's inaugural address  घोषित उसके प्रशासन  would not initiate civil war .
Eight remaining slave states  जारी to अस्वीकृत काल्स लिये secession  .
Confederate forces seized numerous federal forts within  territory claimed by the confederacy  .
A Peace Conference failed to find a compromise ,  और दोनो पहलू prepared  for war .
The Confederates assumed that European countries were so dependent on `` King  कपास `` कि वे होता intervene ; none किया और none पहचाना the नई confederate राज्य of अमेरिका  .
Hostilities began on April 12 , 1861 , when  confederate शक्तियां fired upon  Fort Sumter , a key fort held by Union troops in South Carolina .
Lincoln  पुकारा लिये प्रत्येक राज्य to provide सैनिकों to retake the फोर्ट  ; consequently , four more slave states joined the Confederacy , bringing their total to eleven .
The Union soon controlled the border states and established a naval  नाकेबंदी कि अबोध the दक्षिणी  economy .
The  पूर्वी थिएटर  was inconclusive in 1861–62 .
The autumn 1862 Confederate campaign into Maryland ( a Union state ) ended with Confederate retreat at the  बैटल of antietam , dissuading अंग्रेजों हस्तक्षेप  .
Lincoln issued  the emancipation उदघोषणा  , which made ending slavery a war goal .
To the west , by summer 1862 the Union destroyed the Confederate river navy , then much of their western armies , and the  संघ at vicksburg विभाजित the confederacy in दो at the मिसिसिपी  River .
In 1863 , Robert E.  ली 's confederate incursion  north ended at the Battle of Gettysburg .
Western  सफलताओं led to ulysses  S. Grant command of all Union armies in 1864 .
In the Western Theater , William T. Sherman drove east to capture Atlanta and marched to  the समुद्र , destroying confederate अवसंरचना  along the way .
The  संघ marshaled the संसाधन और जनशक्ति to आक्रमण the confederacy इससे सब दिशानिर्देश , और  could afford to fight battles of attrition through the Overland Campaign towards Richmond , the Confederate capital .
The defending Confederate army failed  , अग्रणी to ली 's आत्मसमर्पण to ग्रान्ट at appomattox  Court House on April 9 , 1865 .
The  अमरीकी सिविल युद्ध थी एक of the  earliest true industrial wars .
Railroads , the  टेलीग्राफ , steamships , और mass-produced  weapons were employed extensively .
The mobilization of civilian factories ,  खानों , shipyards , बैंको , परिवहन और खाना  supplies all foreshadowed World War I .
It remains the deadliest war in American history  , resulting in the मौतों of an अनुमानित 750,000 सैनिको और an undetermined  number of civilian casualties .
Historian John Huddleston estimates the death toll at ten percent of all  उत्तरी males 20–45 सालो बूढ़ा , और 30 प्रतिशत of सब  Southern white males aged 18–40 .
Potato bread is a form of bread in which potato  replaces a portion of the नियमित  wheat flour .
It is cooked in a variety of methods ,  सहित  by baking it on a hot griddle or pan , or in an oven .
It  may be leavened  or unleavened , and may have a variety of other ingredients baked into it .
The ratio  of आलू to गेहूं आटा varies significantly इससे रेसिपी to रेसिपी ,  with some recipes having a majority of potato , and others having a majority of wheat flour .
Some  व्यंजनों कॉल लिये mashed  potatoes , with others calling for dehydrated potato flakes .
It is available as a  वाणिज्यिक उत्पाद in अनेक  countries , with similar variations in ingredients , cooking method , and other variables .
The  प्रशांत समय  Zone observes standard time by subtracting eight hours from Coordinated Universal Time ( ) .
The clock time in this zone is  आधारित on the औसत सौर समय of the 120th मध्याह्न वेस्ट  of the Greenwich Observatory .
During daylight saving time  , इसके समय ऑफसेट is .
In the United States and  कनाडा , इस समय मण्डल is generically  called Pacific Time ( PT ) .
Specifically , it is Pacific  मानक समय ( pst ) जब observing मानक समय  ( winter ) , and Pacific Daylight Time ( PDT ) when observing daylight saving time ( summer ) .
सबसे of  Canada uses daylight saving time .
In Mexico the UTC−8 time zone is known as  the उत्तरपश्चिम मण्डल , जिससे is synchronized साथ the u.S. पीडीटी  daylight saving schedule .
The largest city in the Pacific Time Zone is Los Angeles in California from USA ; the city 's  महानगर क्षेत्रफल is the largest  in the zone .
The zone is  एक घंटा ahead of the अलास्का समय मण्डल , एक घंटा पीछे the पहाड़  Time Zone and three hours behind the Eastern Time Zone .
Stereo 8 , commonly known as the eight-track cartridge  , eight-track टेप , or बस  eight-track , is a magnetic tape sound recording technology .
It was  लोकप्रिय in the  United States from the mid-1960s through to the early 1980s , but was relatively unknown in many European countries .
It  थी , however , बहुत लोकप्रिय in the  United Kingdom during this period .
Stereo 8 was  निर्मित in 1964 by a consortium led by विधेयक lear of lear जेट निगम , साथ साथ  Ampex , Ford Motor Company , General Motors , Motorola , and RCA Victor Records ( RCA ) .
It was a further  विकास of the समान stereo-pak four-track  cartridge created by Earl `` Madman '' Muntz .
A later quadraphonic version of the format was  घोषित by आरसीए in अप्रैल 1970 और पहला ज्ञात as quad-8 , तब  later changed to just Q8 .
Ramesses II ( 1303 BC – July or August 1213 BC ; Egyptian : , alternatively transcribed as Rameses and Ramses or ) , referred to as Ramesses  the ग्रेट , थी the तीसरा मिश्र pharaoh ( reigned 1279 bc – 1213 bc ) of the उन्नीसवीं राजवंश  .
He is often  regarded as the महानतम , सबसे मनाये  , and most powerful pharaoh of the Egyptian Empire .
His  successors और बाद उन्होंने  called him the `` Great Ancestor . ''
रामेसेस ii led अनेक सैन्य  expeditions into the Levant , re-asserting Egyptian control over Canaan .
He also led expeditions to the south  , into नुबिया , commemorated in inscriptions at  Beit el-Wali and Gerf Hussein .
At age fourteen ,  रामेसेस थी नियुक्त  Prince Regent by his father Seti I .
He is believed to have taken the throne in his late teens and is known to have ruled Egypt  इससे 1279 bc to 1213 bc लिये 66 सालो और 2 महीने , according to  both Manetho and Egypt 's contemporary historical records .
he थी एकबार कहा to  have lived to be 99 years old , but it is more likely that he died in his 90th or 91st year .
If he became Pharaoh in 1279 BC as most Egyptologists today believe , he would have  assumed the सिंहासन on may 31 , 1279 bc , आधारित on उसके ज्ञात  accession date of III Shemu day 27 .
Ramesses II celebrated an unprecedented 14 sed festivals ( the first held after thirty years of a  pharaoh 's शासनकाल , और तब प्रत्येक तीन सालो  ) during his reign—more than any other pharaoh .
On his death , he was buried in a tomb in the Valley of the Kings ; his body was later moved to a  royal संचय जहाँ it थी खोजा in 1881 , और is अभी on प्रदर्शक  in the Cairo Museum .
The early part of his reign was focused on building cities  , मंदिरों और स्मारक  .
He established the city of Pi-Ramesses  in the nile डेल्टा as उसके नई पूंजी और  main base for his campaigns in Syria .
This city was built on the remains of the city of Avaris ,  the पूंजी of the हिक्सोस जब वे took over , और थी the  location of the main Temple of Set .
He is also known as Ozymandias in the  यूनानी स्त्रोत , इससे a लिप्यन्तरण into यूनानी of a भाग of रामेसेस  's throne name , , `` Ra 's mighty truth , chosen of Ra '' .
The Texas Rangers are a professional baseball team  स्तिथ in the dallas-fort  Worth Metroplex , based in Arlington , Texas .
The Rangers  मताधिकार is फिलहाल a सदस्य of the पश्चिमी प्रभाग  of Major League Baseball 's American League .
Since , the Rangers have played in Rangers  ballpark in आर्लिंगटन in आर्लिंगटन  , Texas .
The team  's नाम is उधार इससे the प्रसिद्ध  law enforcement agency of the same name .
The franchise was established in 1961 by the name of the Washington  सीनेटरों , an विस्तार टोली awarded to वॉशिंगटन , d.C. , बाद the नगर 's पहला  ballclub , the original Washington Senators , moved to Minnesota and became the Twins .
After the season  , the नई सीनेटरों स्थानांतरित to  Arlington , Texas , and debuted as the Rangers the following spring .
The Texas Rangers  बेसबॉल क्लबों रै बना छह दिखावे in the एमएलबी postseason ,  all following division championships , in 1996 , 1998 , 1999 , 2010 , 2011 and 2012 .
In 2010 , the  रेंजरों उन्नत पास्ट the प्रभाग श्रेणी  for the first time , defeating the Tampa Bay Rays .
Texas then brought home their first American League Pennant  बाद धड़कन the नई यॉर्क यांकीज़  in six games .
In the 2010  संसार श्रेणी , the मताधिकार 's पहला , the  Rangers fell to the San Francisco Giants in five games .
उनके लोन विजय बना उन्हें the पहला टेक्सास टोली to जीत  a World Series game , the Houston Astros having been swept in their 2005 World Series appearance .
They repeated as American League champions the  following साल , तब खोया the 2011 संसार श्रेणी to  the St. Louis Cardinals in seven games .
Gaius Julius Caesar ( , July 100 BC – 15 March 44 BC ) was a Roman  सामान्य , statesman , कौंसुल और notable  author of Latin prose .
He played a critical role in the events that led  to the निधन of the रोमन गणतंत्र और  the rise of the Roman Empire .
in 60 bc , सीज़र , crassus और pompey  formed a political alliance that was to dominate Roman politics for several years .
Their attempts to amass power through populist tactics were opposed by the  रूढ़िवादी elite भीतर the रोमन सीनेट , among उन्हें केटो the younger साथ the  frequent support of Cicero .
Caesar 's conquest of Gaul , completed by 51 BC , extended  रोम 's territory to the अंग्रेज़ी  Channel and the Rhine .
Caesar became the first Roman general to cross  दोनो जब he निर्मित a सेतु आरपार the राइन  and conducted the first invasion of Britain .
These achievements granted him unmatched military power  और threatened to ग्रहण the खड़ा of pompey , जो था  realigned himself with the Senate after the death of Crassus in 53 BC .
With the Gallic  युद्धों concluded , the सीनेट ordered सीज़र to  lay down his military command and return to Rome .
Caesar refused , and marked his defiance in 49 BC by  क्रासिंग the rubicon साथ a लीजन , leaving  his province and illegally entering Roman territory under arms .
Civil war resulted , from which he  उभरा as the unrivaled नेता  of Rome .
After assuming control of government , Caesar began a program of  सोशल और सरकारी reforms ,  including the creation of the Julian calendar .
He centralised the bureaucracy of the  गणतंत्र और थी आखिरकार proclaimed  `` dictator in perpetuity '' .
But the underlying political  विरोध था नहीं महरूम resolved , और on the ides of  March ( 15 March ) 44 BC , Caesar was assassinated by a group of senators led by Marcus Junius Brutus .
A new  श्रेणी of सिविल युद्धों broke आउट , और the संवैधानिक  government of the Republic was never restored .
Caesar 's adopted heir Octavian ,  बाद ज्ञात as augustus , रोज़ to एकमात्र शक्ति  , and the era of the Roman Empire began .
Much of Caesar 's life is known from his own accounts of his military campaigns , and from other contemporary sources , mainly  the अक्षर और भाषणों of सिसरो और the ऐतिहासिक कृतियाँ  of Sallust .
The later  biographies of सीज़र by suetonius और प्लूटार्क  are also major sources .
Caesar is deemed to be one of the greatest military  कमांडरों  of history .
Linguistic  मैप of सीरियल ,  Cameroon , and Benin .
चिह्न in अंग्रेज़ी ,  outside the University of Lagos
There are hundreds of  भाषाएं बोला  in Nigeria .
The major languages  हैं योरूबा , हौसा , इग्बो  , Edo , Fulfulde , Kanuri , and Ibibio .
The official language of Nigeria ,  अंग्रेज़ी , the पूर्व औपनिवेशिक भाषा , थी चुनी to  facilitate the cultural and linguistic unity of the country .
अंग्रेज़ी , however , remains an विशेष बचाना of the देश  's urban elite , and is not widely spoken in rural areas , which comprise three quarters of the countries population .
Nigeria 's linguistic  विविधता is a microcosm of अफ़्रीकी as a पूरे , encompassing  three major African languages families : Afroasiatic , Nilo-Saharan , and Niger–Congo .
Nigeria also has several as-yet unclassified languages , such as Cen Tuum , which may represent a  relic of an भी वृहद विविधता prior to the  spread of the current language families .
Daucus carota ( common names include wild carrot , ( UK ) bird 's nest , bishop 's lace , and Queen Anne 's lace ( North America ) ) is a flowering plant in the  परिवार apiaceae , देशी to शीतोष्ण regions of यूरोपीय , दक्षिणपश्चिम एशिया और naturalised to उत्तर अमेरिका  and Australia .
Domesticated carrots are cultivars of a  subspecies , daucus carota subsp . sativus  .
In the United  राज्य , the शीर्षक of संघीय न्यायधीश प्रायः अर्थात् a न्यायधीश नियुक्त by the अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य और  confirmed by the United States Senate pursuant to the Appointments Clause in Article II of the United States Constitution .
In addition to the Supreme Court of the United States , whose existence and some aspects of whose jurisdiction are beyond the constitutional power of Congress to alter , acts of Congress have established 13 courts of appeals ( also called `` circuit courts '' ) with  appellate  jurisdiction over different regions of the United States , and 94 United States district courts .
Every judge appointed to such a court may be categorized as a federal judge ; such positions include the Chief Justice and Associate Justices  of the परम् अदालत , सर्किट  Judges of the courts of appeals , and district judges of the United States district courts .
All of these judges described thus far are referred to sometimes as `` Article III judges '' because they exercise the judicial  शक्ति vested in the न्यायिक शाखा of the संघीय सरकारी by आलेख iii of the u.S. संविधान  .
In addition , judges of the Court of International Trade  कसरत न्यायिक शक्ति pursuant to आलेख  III .
Other judges serving in the federal courts , including magistrate judges and bankruptcy judges , are also  sometimes referred to as `` संघीय न्यायाधीशों '' ; however , वे हैं neither नियुक्त by the अध्यक्ष nor पुष्टि by the सीनेट , और उनके शक्ति गर्भाशयी  from Article I instead .
See Article I  और आलेख  III tribunals .
Nelly Kim Furtado ( born December 2 , 1978 ) is a  कनाडाई सिंगर , songwriter और अभिनेत्री  .
She has sold 20 million albums worldwide and more 20 million singles , bringing her  कुल बिक्री to over 40 लाख रिकॉर्ड around  the world .
फ़र्टाडो पहला gained  fame with her debut album , Whoa , Nelly !
, which spawned two successful singles  , `` i 'm जैसे a बर्ड `` और `` फेरे बंद the लाइट  `` . ``
I 'm Like A Bird '' won a 2001 Juno  पुरस्कार लिये सिंगल of the साल और a 2002 ग्रैमी पुरस्कार  for Best Female Pop Vocal Performance .
In 2003 , Furtado released  लोकगीत , जिससे उत्पादित तीन अंतरराष्ट्रीय  singles— `` Powerless ( Say What You Want ) `` , `` Try `` and `` Força `` .
Three years later she released  ढीला , a विश्वव्यापी वाणिज्यिक  success .
the एल्बम शाखित चार number-one हिट्स : `` promiscuous ``  , `` Maneater `` , `` Say It Right `` and `` All Good Things ( Come to an End ) `` .
After a three-year  ब्रेक , वो released उसके पहला  full-length Spanish album , Mi Plan , and Furtado received a Latin Grammy for Best Female Pop Vocal Album .
In 2012 , Furtado 's fourth English-language  स्टुडियो एल्बम , the स्पिरिट अविनाशी  was released .
Furtado 's work has earned her numerous awards  और accolades , सहित 2 ग्रैमी पुरस्कार , 10 juno पुरस्कार , 3 muchmusic  Video Awards and a star on Canada 's Walk of Fame .
जीव of the  Night is the tenth studio album by Kiss .
It is the band 's last album for Casablanca  रिकॉर्ड , the तभी लेबल the समूह था कभी अंकित  for at that point .
The album was dedicated to the memory of Casablanca founder and early Kiss supporter Neil  bogart , जो था died of कर्कट दौरान the रिकॉर्डिंग  sessions .
It is also the band 's last album recorded with Ace Frehley credited as an official member ( until 1998 's Psycho Circus ) , and its first album with Vinnie  विंसेंट as the initially uncredited सीसे guitarist ( विंसेंट होता बाद be credited , लकिन नहीं प्रदर्शित  pictorially on the cover , of 1985 's reissue of the album ) .
Touch is a  निर्णायक अर्थात् of receiving  information .
This photo shows tactile markings identifying  सीढ़ियाँ लिये visually impaired  people .
The somatosensory system is a diverse sensory system comprising the receptors and processing centres to produce the sensory modalities such as  टच , तापमान , proprioception ( देह स्थिति ) , और  nociception ( pain ) .
The sensory receptors cover the skin and epithelia ,  skeletal मांसपेशियां , हड्डियों और joints , आतंरिक  organs , and the cardiovascular system .
While touch is considered one of the five traditional senses , the impression  of टच is formed इससे अनेक modalities  .
In medicine , the colloquial term `` touch '' is usually replaced with  `` दैहिक होश '' to बेहतर प्रतिबिंबित  the variety of mechanisms involved .
Somatic senses are  sometimes referred to as somesthetic होश , साथ the समझना कि somesthesis शामिल  touch , proprioception and ( depending on usage ) also haptic perception .
The system reacts to diverse stimuli using different receptors :  thermoreceptors , nociceptors , mechanoreceptors और chemoreceptors  .
हस्तांतरण of सूचना इससे the receptors गुजरता via संवेदी nerves  through tracts in the spinal cord and into the brain .
Processing primarily occurs in the primary  somatosensory क्षेत्रफल in the parietal पालि of the दिमागी cortex  .
The cortical  homunculus थी devised  by Wilder Penfield .
At its simplest , the system works when activity in a  संवेदी न्यूरॉन is triggered by a विशिष्ट stimulus ऐसे as ऊष्मा ; इस सिग्नल आखिरकार  passes to an area in the brain uniquely attributed to that area on the body—this allows the processed stimulus to be felt at the correct location .
The point-to-point mapping of the body surfaces in the  दिमाग is पुकारा a homunculus और is अनिवार्य  in the creation of a body image .
This  brain-surface ( `` cortical  '' ) map is not immutable , however .
नाटकीय शिफ्ट can occur in  response to stroke or injury .
magnolia is a विशाल genus  of about 210 flowering plant species in the subfamily Magnolioideae of the family Magnoliaceae .
It is named after  फ्रेंच वनस्पतिशास्त्री पियरे  Magnol .
Magnolia  is an प्राचीन  genus .
Appearing before bees did , the  पुष्प विकसित to प्रोत्साहित परागण  by beetles .
To avoid damage from  pollinating भृंग , the carpels of magnolia  flowers are extremely tough .
Fossilised specimens of Magnolia acuminata have been found dating to 20 million years ago , and of  पौधे identifiably belonging to the magnoliaceae डेटिंग to 95 लाख सालो पहले  .
Another aspect of Magnolias that is considered to represent an ancestral state is that the flower bud is  enclosed in a bract बल्कि than in sepals ; the perianth भाग हैं undifferentiated और पुकारा  tepals rather than distinct sepals and petals .
Magnolia shares the tepal characteristic with several other  flowering पौधे निकट the आधार of the flowering संयंत्र lineage  such as Amborella and Nymphaea ( as well as with many more recently derived plants such as Lilium ) .
The natural  दायरा of magnolia प्रजाति is a disjunct वितरण , साथ a  main centre in east and southeast Asia and a secondary centre in eastern North America , Central America , the West Indies , and some species in South America .
अंगूठा
`` White Christmas '' is an Irving  बर्लिन सोंग reminiscing परिचय an old-fashioned  Christmas setting .
According to the Guinness Book of World  रिकॉर्ड , the संस्करण सुंग by bing crosby is the best-selling सिंगल of  all time , with estimated sales in excess of 50 million copies worldwide .
Accounts vary  as to जब और जहाँ  Berlin wrote the song .
One story is that he wrote it in 1940 , in warm La Quinta , California , while staying at the La Quinta Hotel , a frequent  हॉलीवुड रिट्रीट भी favored by writer-producer फ़्रैंक capra , हालांकि the एरिज़ोना biltmore  also claims the song was written there .
He often stayed up all night writing  — he बताई उसके सचिव , `` पकड़ें अपना कलम और  take down this song .
I just wrote the best song I 've ever written — heck , I just wrote  the बेहतरीन सोंग कि  anybody 's ever written ! ''
Cross-country skiing ( or XC skiing ) is a form of ski touring in which participants propel  themselves आरपार snow-covered मैदान using skis और डंडे .
The activity is popular in many  स्थान साथ विशाल snowfields , primarily  Northern Europe , Canada , and Alaska .
Cross-country skiing is part of the Nordic skiing  खेल परिवार , जिससे शामिल स्की कूद , nordic संयुक्त ( cross-country स्कीइंग और स्की  jumping ) , Biathlon ( skiing and rifle marksmanship ) and ski-orienteering ( which includes map navigation along snow trails and tracks ) .
Cross-country skiing is the modern style of skiing that most resembles prehistoric skiing ,  विशेषकर जब किया in the  backcountry .
It is also  सम्बन्धित to telemark  skiing .
A use tax in United States is complementary to sales  कर जिससे अर्थात् , if तुम ख़रीदे a taxable product/services बगैर  paying any Sales tax to vendor , you owe use tax .
You must self assess use tax and pay it directly to  the राज्य जहाँ the उत्पाद यहूद खपत or सेवाएं  were rendered .
Use tax typically  is a कर on खपत लकिन if तुम ख़रीदे an मद (  without paying sales tax ) and store it in your warehouse initially , use tax applies to that location where goods were stored .
Later on when the final consumption takes place at some other location , you are required to pay  the अवकल of कर रेट to the क्षेत्राधिकार of परम  place of consumption .
This really means that you do n't have to pay both Sales Tax as well as Use Tax on  एक लेनदेन  .
It is only one or the other  कि तुम हैं जरूरी to अदा on खरीदें of taxable  products/services .
If vendor does n't charge any Sales tax on its invoice then it is the obligation of the buyer to  स्वः assess उपयोग कर और अदा it to the  appropriate Jurisdication .
Use Tax is generally charged  at the वही कर रेट of बिक्री कर  but in some states the tax rate is different .
Use tax is also termed as ``  खपत कर ''  or `` Consumer Use Tax '' .
A use tax is a type  of excise कर levied in the संयुक्त राज्य  by numerous state governments .
It is assessed upon tangible personal property purchased by a resident of the assessing state for use , storage , or consumption in that state ( not for resale ) , regardless of  जहाँ the खरीदें took प्लेस  .
If a resident of a state makes a purchase  भीतर उसके घर राज्य , पूरा बिक्री  tax is paid at the time of the transaction .
The use tax applies when a resident of the assessing state  purchases an मद कि is नहीं विषय to  his home state 's sales tax .
Usually , this is due to out-of-state purchases , as well as ordering  वस्तुएं through the मेल , by फोन , or over the अंतरजाल इससे अन्य  states .
The use tax is  typically assessed at the वही रेट as the बिक्री कर कि होता have महरूम owed ( if  any ) had the same goods been purchased in the state of residence .
For example , a resident of Massachusetts , with a 6.25 % `` sales and use tax '' on certain goods and services , purchases  non-exempt goods or सेवाएं in नई हैम्पशायर लिये उपयोग , भंडार or  other consumption in Massachusetts .
Under New Hampshire law , the New Hampshire vendor collects no sales taxes on the goods  , लकिन the मैसाचुसेट्स purchaser/user जरूर स्टिल अदा 6.25  % of the sales price directly to the Department of Revenue in Massachusetts as a use tax .
If the same goods are purchased in a US state that does collect sales tax for such goods at time of purchase , whatever taxes were paid by the purchaser to that  राज्य can be deducted ( as a कर क्रेडिट ) इससे the 6.25  % owed for subsequent use , storage or consumption in Massachusetts .
With few exceptions , no state 's vendors will charge the native state 's sales tax on  goods shipped आउट of राज्य , अर्थ सब goods ordered इससे out-of-state  are essentially free of sales tax .
The purchaser is therefore required to declare  और अदा the उपयोग कर to उसके  home state on these ordered goods .
The assessing  क्षेत्राधिकार may मेक the उपयोग कर  payable annually , but some states require a monthly payment .
For example , where a Vermont resident has not paid at least 6 % sales tax on property brought in for use in the state , Vermont law requires filing a tax  वापसी ( रूप su-452 और भुगतान ) by the 20th दिन of the माह following non-exempt purchases to avoid a $ 50 लेट शुल्क , a 5 % दंड प्रति माह , to a अधिकतम  of 25 % , plus statutory interest on the unpaid tax and penalties .
Typical exemptions include purchases by  charitable non-profit संगठन or सरकारी एजेंसियों , purchases लिये पुनर्विक्रय in कॉमर्स , और  purchases via `` casual sales '' by individuals not in the ordinary course of business .
Also note that there are thousands of tax  jurisdictions in the u.S. और अनेक have ever-changing सूचियाँ of विशिष्ट प्रकार  of goods and services that are not taxable .
As an illustration of the complexities : a 2006 Massachusetts law requires payment of tax on `` pre-written '' ( not custom ) software  खरीदा और डाउनलोड over the अंतरजाल लिये संस्थापना और उपयोग in मैसाचुसेट्स  , regardless of where it originates .
However , the actual use of the same software downloaded by a Massachusetts resident to a  सर्वर in another राज्य remains a non-taxed  `` service '' .
In contrast , Arkansas generally does not tax anything delivered over the Internet ( such as downloaded  तन्त्र or म्यूज़िक ) , मगर voip जिससे is specifically  defined as taxable `` telecommunications services '' .
Software ( pre-written or custom ) `` delivered thru a tangible medium '' ( i.e. , on disk ) in Arkansas is taxable even if ordered online , except `` custom software for a  particular ग्राहक '' जिससे is non-taxable `` प्रोग्रामिंग सेवाएं '' भी if वितरित  on a disk .
In most cases , this complexity is part  of the underlying बिक्री कर कानून ; लकिन जबकि a brick-and-mortar स्टोर रै to सौदे साथ तभी the बिक्री कर कानून of इसके अपना स्थान , रिमोट विक्रेता have to सौदे  with the use tax laws of many jurisdictions—up to every US state and locality that assesses them , if the company has a presence or `` nexus '' in every state ( as large `` brick-and-mortar '' sellers like Wal-Mart and Best Buy do ) .
In medicine , pulmonary hypertension ( PH ) is an increase of blood pressure in the pulmonary artery , pulmonary vein , or pulmonary capillaries , together known as  the फेफड़ों vasculature , अग्रणी to shortness of साँस , dizziness , fainting  , and other symptoms , all of which are exacerbated by exertion .
Pulmonary hypertension can be a severe disease with  a markedly decreased कसरत  tolerance and heart failure .
It was first identified by Dr.  अर्नस्ट वोन romberg in 1891  .
According to the most recent classification , it can be  एक of पाँच अलग प्रकार : arterial , venous , hypoxic , thromboembolic  or miscellaneous .
सही
सही
Sanuk , a division of Deckers Outdoor Corporation , is a  जूते ब्रांड आधारित in दक्षिणी कैलिफ़ोर्निया  .
Sanuk , the Thai word  लिये मजा , थी संस्थापित by दक्षिणी कैलिफ़ोर्निया देशी जेफ़ kelley जब  he started making sandals out of indoor-outdoor carpet .
The first product created was green carpeted and entitled the  `` फर रियल '' बाद एक दूकान  owner asked if the novelty sandal was `` For Real . ''
The Fur  रियल पहला became a runaway hit  through boutique stores and not the intended surf shops .
The novelty act was followed up by a sandal wrapped in wire mesh , a leopard print  संस्करण , और शैलियाँ बना आउट of a poncho सामग्री  in a variety of colors .
Sanuk has grown to  शामिल स्टाइल विकल्प लिये मेन , महिलाओं और  youth and is distributed across the United States and in over 50 countries throughout Europe , Asia , South America and Australia .
Sanuk centers  itself around a धनात्मक जीवनशैली  advocating the slogan , `` Smile , Pass it on ! `` .
In computer science , array programming languages ( also known as vector or multidimensional languages )  generalize  operations on scalars to apply transparently to vectors , matrices , and higher dimensional arrays .
सरणी प्रोग्रामिंग primitives concisely  express broad ideas about data manipulation .
The level of conciseness can be dramatic in certain cases : it is not uncommon to find array  प्रोग्रामिंग भाषा one-liners कि आवश्यकता अधिक than a युगल of पृष्ठों of जावा  code .
APL , designed by Ken Iverson , was the first programming  भाषा to provide सरणी प्रोग्रामिंग  capabilities .
The  mnemonic apl refers to the शीर्षक of उसके seminal किताब `` a  Programming Language '' and not to arrays per se . Iverson 's contribution to rigor and clarity was probably more important than the simple extension of dimensions to functions .
In the United States an annuity contract is created when an insured party , usually an individual ,  pays a जीवन बीमे कम्पनी a सिंगल प्रीमियम कि होगा  later be distributed back to the insured party over time .
Annuity contracts traditionally provide a guaranteed distribution of income over time , such as via fixed payments , until the death of the person or persons named in  the अनुबंध or जबतक a फाइनल तिथि , whichever  comes first .
However , the majority of modern annuity customers use annuities only to accumulate funds free of  आय और पूंजी gains कर और to बाद लो lump-sum withdrawals बगैर  using the guaranteed-income-for-life feature .
President  बराक ओबामा  .
Barack  ओबामा साथ उसके पहला  Supreme Court nominee , Sonia Sotomayor .
Following is a list of all United States federal judges appointed by  अध्यक्ष बराक ओबामा दौरान उसके प्रेसिडेंसी  .
As of April 30 , 2013 , 187 Obama nominees to Article III judgeships have been confirmed by the United States Senate , namely two Justices to the Supreme Court of the United States , 35 judges to the  संयुक्त राज्य न्यायालयों of appeals और 150 न्यायाधीशों to the संयुक्त राज्य ज़िला न्यायालयों .
25 further nominations are currently  प्रतीक्षारत सीनेट कार्रवाई .
There are currently 16 vacancies on the United States Courts of  appeals , 67 vacancies on the संयुक्त राज्य ज़िला  courts and 22 additional federal judiciary vacancies that are anticipated to occur before the end of Obama 's second term .
Obama has not made any  recess नियुक्ति  to the federal courts .
Obama has made two nominations to the United States  अदालत of अंतरराष्ट्रीय व्यापार , an आलेख iii  tribunal .
Obama  भी designated बैठे न्यायधीश एमिली C. हेविट  of the United States Court of Federal Claims , an Article I court , to be Chief Judge of that court .
This is a list of airports in  मैक्सिको , sorted  by location .
Mexico has about 1,834 airports , ranking 2nd in  क्रमांक of एयरपोर्ट in उत्तर अमेरिका  , and 3rd in the world .
Only major  नेशनल  and International Airports are shown .
Agency debt also known as an Agency bond  is a सुरक्षा , प्रायः a  bond , issued by a U.S. government-sponsored agency .
The offerings of  ये एजेंसियों हैं समर्थित लकिन नहीं गारंटी by the us सरकारी  since the agencies are private entities .
Some prominent issuers of these  प्रतिभूति हैं छात्र ऋण विपणन संघ ( sallie mae ) , संघीय नेशनल बंधक  Association ( Fannie Mae ) and Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation ( Freddie Mac ) .
Agency securities are usually  exempt इससे राज्य और लोकल कर , लकिन  not federal tax .
Agency  कर्ज़ is भी  called an agency security .
The Susquehanna Steam Electric  स्टेशन , a खौलते जल रिएक्टर  .
The  रिएक्टरों हैं स्तिथ  inside the rectangular containment buildings towards the front of the cooling towers .
Three nuclear-powered American warships , ( top to bottom ) nuclear cruisers  uss bainbridge और uss long बीच साथ uss एंटरप्राइज़ the पहला  nuclear-powered aircraft carrier in 1964 .
Crew members are spelling out  आइंस्टीन 's mass-energy equivalence  formula E = mc2 on the flight deck .
The Russian nuclear-powered icebreaker NS Yamal on a 1994 joint  expedition साथ  the NSF .
Nuclear power is the use of  sustained नाभिकीय परिवर्द्धन  to generate heat and electricity .
नाभिकीय शक्ति पौधे provided परिचय 5.7 %  of the world 's energy and 13 % of the world 's electricity , in 2012 .
In 2013 , the IAEA report that there are 437 operational nuclear power reactors (  हालांकि नहीं सब हैं producing विद्युत ) ,  in 31 countries .
In addition , there  हैं लगभग  140 naval vessels using nuclear propulsion in operation , powered by some 180 reactors .
There is an ongoing debate about the  उपयोग of नाभिकीय उर्जा  .
Proponents , such as  the संसार नाभिकीय संघ , the iaea और पर्यावरणविद  for Nuclear Energy contend that nuclear power is a sustainable energy source that reduces carbon emissions .
Opponents , such as Greenpeace  अंतरराष्ट्रीय और nirs , मानना कि नाभिकीय  power poses many threats to people and the environment .
Nuclear power plant accidents include the  chernobyl विपत्ति ( 1986 ) , फुकुशिमा daiichi नाभिकीय विपत्ति ( 2011 ) , और the  Three Mile Island accident ( 1979 ) .
There have also been some  nuclear-powered पनडुब्बी  mishaps .
Research  into सुरक्षा सुधार is continuing  and nuclear fusion , believed to be safer , may be used in the future .
As of 2012 , according to the IAEA ,  विश्वव्यापी वहीँ यहूद 68 सिविल नाभिकीय  power reactors under construction in 15 countries .
In the US the licenses of almost half its reactors have been extended to 60 years , and plans to build  another दर्जन हैं अंतर्गत गंभीर विचार  .
However , Japan 's 2011 Fukushima Daiichi nuclear  विपत्ति prompted a पुनर्विचार of  nuclear energy policy in many countries .
Germany decided to close all its  रिएक्टरों by 2022 , और इटली रै बैन नाभिकीय शक्ति  .
Following Fukushima , the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय उर्जा एजेंसी halved  its estimate of additional nuclear generating capacity to be built by 2035 .
फोटोग्राफ  of the Berlin Wall taken from the West side .
The Wall was built  in 1961 to prevent ईस्ट  Germans from fleeing from Communism .
It was an iconic symbol of the Cold  युद्ध और इसके पतन in 1989 चिह्नित  the end of the War .
The Cold War , often dated from 1947 to 1991 , was a sustained state of political and military tension between powers in  the पश्चिमी bloc , वर्चस्व by the संयुक्त राज्य साथ नाटो among इसके allies , और शक्तियां in the पूर्वी bloc , वर्चस्व by the सोवियत  Union along with the Warsaw Pact .
This began after the  कामयाबी of उनके अस्थाई wartime गठबंधन विरूद्ध नाजी जर्मनी , leaving  the USSR and the US as two superpowers with profound economic and political differences .
A neutral faction arose with the Non-Aligned Movement  संस्थापित by मिश्र , इण्डिया , और यूगोस्लाविया ; इस गुट अस्वीकृत संघ साथ either  the US-led West or the Soviet-led East .
The Cold War was so named because the two major powers—each possessing  नाभिकीय हथियार और thereby threatened साथ परस्पर assured  destruction —never met in direct military combat .
Instead , in their  संघर्ष लिये वैश्विक influence वे  engaged in ongoing psychological warfare and in regular indirect confrontations through proxy wars .
चक्र of सापेक्ष शांत होता be followed  by high tension , which could have led to world war .
The tensest times were during the Berlin Blockade ( 1948–1949 ) , the Korean War ( 1950–1953 ) , the Suez Crisis ( 1956 ) , the Berlin Crisis of 1961 , the Cuban missile crisis  ( 1962 ) , the वियतनाम युद्ध ( 1959–1975 ) , the योम kippur युद्ध ( 1973 ) , the सोवियत युद्ध in अफगानिस्तान ( 1979–1989 ) , the सोवियत downing of कोरियाई एयर लाइनों उड़ान 007 ( 1983 )  , and the `` Able Archer '' NATO military exercises ( 1983 ) .
The  विरोध थी expressed through सैन्य coalitions , रणनीतिक conventional फ़ोर्स deployments , extensive  aid to client states , espionage , massive propaganda campaigns , conventional and nuclear arms races , appeals to neutral nations , rivalry at sports events ( in particular the Olympics ) , and technological competitions such as the Space Race .
The US and USSR became involved in political and military conflicts in  the तीसरा संसार देशों of लैटिन अमेरिका , अफ़्रीकी , the मध्य ईस्ट , और southeast  Asia .
To alleviate the risk of a potential nuclear war , both  पहलू sought राहत of राजनैतिक तनाव  through détente in the 1970s .
In the 1980s , the  संयुक्त राज्य increased राजनयिक , सैन्य , और आर्थिक pressures on the सोवियत संघ , at a समय  when the communist state was already suffering from economic stagnation .
In the mid-1980s , the new Soviet President Mikhail  गोर्बाचेव introduced the liberalizing reforms of  perestroika ( `` reorganization '' , 1987 ) and glasnost ( `` openness '' , ca . 1985 ) .
Pressures  लिये नेशनल स्वतंत्रता  grew stronger in Eastern Europe , especially Poland .
They reached a breaking point when  गोर्बाचेव refused to उपयोग सोवियत सैनिकों to support the faltering  government of East Germany in late 1989 .
Within weeks all the satellite states broke free from Moscow in a peaceful wave of  revolutions ( वहीँ थी कुछ हिंसा in रोमानिया  ) .
The pressures escalated inside the Soviet  संघ , जहाँ साम्यवादी गिरी और the ussr थी  formally dissolved in late 1991 .
The United States  remained as the संसार  's only superpower .
The Cold War and its events have left a  significant विरासत , और it is प्रायः referred to in लोकप्रिय संस्कृति , विशेषकर  in media featuring themes of espionage and the threat of nuclear warfare .
Pikes Peak State Park is a state park  of आयोवा , यूएसए , featuring a bluff निहार  the Upper Mississippi River opposite the confluence of the Wisconsin River .
The park  is संचालित by the आयोवा  Department of Natural Resources .
It is  nearly a हजार एकड़  ( 4 km2 ) in extent .
The  निकटतम नगर is मैकग्रेगर  , Iowa .
Iowa Highway 76  लगभग defines  its northern boundary .
It  gets इसके नाम इससे the आयोवा अवतार of pikes शिखर  , a particularly high point overlooking the gorge of the Upper Mississippi , and like Pikes Peak in Colorado , is named for Zebulon Pike .
There are  चढ़ाई trails , campgrounds  and RV facilities .
Mountain bikes are  permitted in निश्चित portions  of the park .
Aside from recreational development , the land in the park was never cleared and to a large extent remains  as it थी पहले the आगमन of श्वेत उपनिवेश  .
It is part of a  larger जटिल of पार्क , reserves और refuges जिससे शामिल  Effigy Mounds National Monument , the various components of the Yellow River State Forest , the enormous Upper Mississippi River National Wildlife and Fish Refuge and much smaller , much less well known Driftless Area National Wildlife Refuge .
The Northeast Iowa Legacy  ट्रेल प्रणाली is undergoing  development , and will connect elements of these sites .
Zac  भूरा बैंड is an अमरीकी country/folk  band based in Atlanta , Georgia .
The lineup consists of Zac Brown (  सीसे vocals , गिटार ) , jimmy de मार्टिनी ( चलाऊ , vocals ) , जॉन driskell हॉपकिंस ( बास गिटार , vocals ) , coy bowles ( गिटार , keyboards  ) , Chris Fryar ( drums ) , Clay Cook ( guitar , keyboards , mandolin , steel guitar , vocals ) , and Daniel de los Reyes ( percussion ) .
The band has  toured throughout the संयुक्त राज्य , सहित  a slot on the 2009 and 2010 Bonnaroo Music Festival .
They have also recorded five studio albums , and charted nine Number One singles on the Billboard country charts : `` Chicken Fried `` , `` Toes `` , ``  राजमार्ग 20 सवारी `` , `` फ़्री `` , `` as वो 's चलना दूर `` , `` colder मौसम `` , `` घुटना गहन  `` , `` Keep Me In Mind `` , and `` Goodbye in Her Eyes `` in addition to the singles `` Whatever It Is `` and `` No Hurry `` , which peaked at number 2 on the same chart .
Talk radio is a radio format  containing चर्चा परिचय  topical issues .
Most shows are regularly hosted by a single individual ,  और प्रायः विशेषता साक्षात्कार साथ a क्रमांक of अलग  guests .
Talk radio  typically शामिल an तत्व of श्रोता  participation , usually by broadcasting live conversations between the host and listeners who `` call in '' ( usually via telephone ) to the show .
Listener contributions are usually screened by a show 's producer ( s )  in अनुक्रम to अधिकतम दर्शक ब्याज और , in the मामला of वाणिज्यिक  talk radio , attract advertisers .
Generally , the shows are organized into segments , each separated by a pause for advertisements ; however , in public or  non-commercial रेडियो , म्यूज़िक is sometimes निभाई in प्लेस of commercials to पृथक  the program segments .
Variations of talk  रेडियो शामिल रूढ़िवादी  talk , hot talk , liberal talk and sports talk .
While talk radio has historically been associated with AM/FM , starting around  2005 the प्रौद्योगिकी लिये internet-based talk-radio  shows became cost effective in the form of podcasts .
Now , it is possible for an individual to use a variety of  सेवाएं to मेजबान an internet-based talk-radio दिखाएँ  without carriage by a traditional radio station .
In addition TV programming from talk  और न्यूज आउटलेट  such as BBC , CNN , Bloomberg and Fox are now often available expanding the world of talk radio further .
Talk radio listening is now enjoyed not only on radios , but a wide  किस्में of अन्य डिवाइस और सेवाएं सहित pcs using  iTunes , station directories such as Tunein , show directory smartphones with apps such as Stitcher .
Hippa is a  genus of decapod crustaceans in the  family Hippidae , containing the following species:
hippa adactyla  Fabricius , 1787
hippa admirabilis  ( Thallwitz , 1892 )
hippa alcimede  ( De Man , 1902 )
Hippa  australis  Hale , 1927
hippa carcineutes  Holthuis & Manning , 1970
Hippa  celaeno ( de  Man , 1896 )
hippa granulatus  ( Borradaile , 1904 )
Hippa  hirtipes ( दाना  , 1852 )
Hippa indica Haig ,  मुरुगन & बालकृष्णन नायर  , 1986
Hippa  marmorata ( hombron & jacquinot  , 1846 )
Hippa ovalis ( A.  milne-edwards , 1862 )
Hippa  picta ( heller  , 1861 )
hippa strigillata  ( Stimpson , 1860 )
Hippa testudinaria  ( herbst  , 1791 )
Hippa  truncatifrons ( miers  , 1878 )
It is closely related to the genus Emerita , and species  have प्रायः महरूम transferred between the  two genera .
Jakarta ( ) , officially known as the Special Capital  प्रदेश of जकार्ता ( ) , is the पूंजी और largest  city of Indonesia .
Located on the northwest coast of Java , Jakarta is the country 's economic , cultural and political centre , and with a population of 10,187,595 as of November 2011  , it is the सबसे populous नगर in इंडोनेशिया और in southeast एशिया , और is the  thirteenth most populated city in the world .
The official metropolitan area , known as Jabodetabek ( a name formed by combining the  आरंभिक syllables of जकार्ता , bogor ,  Depok , Tangerang and Bekasi ) , is the second largest in the world , yet the metropolis 's suburbs still continue beyond it .
Jakarta is listed as a global city in the 2008 Globalization and World Cities Study Group  और संजाल ( gawc )  research .
and has  an  area of .
This area has population of  खूब over 28 लाख , बनाना it एक of the संसार 's largest conurbations  in terms of number of inhabitants .
In 2011 , Jakarta ranked 17th  among the संसार 's 200 largest शहरों  , a jump from its 2007 ranking of 171 .
Jakarta has grown more rapidly than  kuala lumpur , बीजिंग और बैंकॉक  .
Established in  the चौथी सदी , the नगर  became an important trading port for the Kingdom of Sunda .
It was the de facto capital of the Dutch East Indies ( when it was known as Batavia ) and has continued as the capital  of इंडोनेशिया चूंकि the देश 's स्वतंत्रता थी घोषित  in 1945 .
The  नगर is the सीट  of the ASEAN Secretariat .
Jakarta  is परोसा by the soekarno–hatta अंतरराष्ट्रीय विमानक्षेत्र , हलीम perdanakusuma  International Airport , and Tanjung Priok Harbour ; it is connected by several intercity and commuter railways , and served by several bus lines running on reserved busways .
A typical home air  कंडीशनिंग खिड़की ईकाई  .
Air conditioning is the process of altering the properties of air (  primarily तापमान और आर्द्रता ) to अधिक favourable  conditions .
More generally , air conditioning can refer to any form of  technological कूलिंग , हीटिंग , वेंटिलेशन , or कीटाणुशोधन कि  modifies the condition of air .
An air conditioner ( often referred to as air con , AC or A/C , and not to be confused with the abbreviation for alternating current ) is a  प्रमुख or घर appliance , प्रणाली , or यांत्रिकी designed to बदलें the एयर तापमान और आर्द्रता भीतर an क्षेत्रफल  ( used for cooling and sometimes heating depending on the air properties at a given time ) .
The cooling is typically done using a simple refrigeration cycle , but sometimes  वाष्पीकरण is प्रयुक्त , commonly लिये सुकून कूलिंग  in buildings and motor vehicles .
In construction ,  a पूरा प्रणाली of हीटिंग  , ventilation and air conditioning is referred to as `` HVAC `` .
`` 6 Foot 7 Foot '' ( also  styled as `` 6'7 '' ) is a सोंग by अमरीकी  rapper Lil Wayne featuring label mate , Cory Gunz .
It is  लिया इससे उसके नवीं  studio album , Tha Carter IV ( 2011 ) .
It was officially released on  itunes on दिसम्बर 16 , 2010  .
It  थी उत्पादित by  `` A Milli `` producer Bangladesh .
The song samples `` Day-O ( The Banana  नाव सोंग ) `` by हैरी  Belafonte .
DC Talk ( styled as dc Talk ) , is a  ग्रैमी -winning ईसाई रैप  trio .
The group was formed in Lynchburg , Virginia in 1987 by Toby  mckeehan , माइकल tait , और केविन अधिकतम स्मिथ .
They have released five major studio albums  साथ : dc बात ( 1989 ) , nu थांग ( 1990 ) ,  Free at Last ( 1992 ) , Jesus Freak ( 1995 ) , and Supernatural ( 1998 ) .
In 2002 , the Encyclopedia of Contemporary  ईसाई म्यूज़िक पुकारा dc बात `` the सबसे लोकप्रिय  overtly Christian act of all time . ''
In 2000 ,  the समूह released an ep titled सोलो जिससे contained  two solo songs from each member .
Since that time , DC  बात रै महरूम on an indefinite अंतराल ,  and the three band members have each led solo careers .
They have performed  और अंकित व्यक्तिगत गीतों साथ अनेक टाइम्स दौरान the 2000s  , although the group never officially reunited or disbanded .
the समूह 's musical  style evolved significantly throughout their career .
Their first two releases , DC Talk  और nu थांग , यहूद of the हिप  hop genre .
DC Talk 's third album , Free at Last , also mainly  took influence इससे the हिप हॉप स्टाइल , हालांकि  their music began taking on a rock sound .
The trio 's last two albums ,  यीशु freak और अलौकिक , यहूद  predominantly pop rock .
The Bible is  a संकलन of अनेक shorter  books written at different times and later assembled into the biblical canon .
All but the shortest of these books have been divided into chapters , generally a page or so in length , since the  जल्दी 13th  century .
Since the mid-16th century , each chapter has  महरूम further विभाजित into `` आयतें ''  of a few short lines or sentences .
Sometimes a sentence spans more than one  श्लोक , as in the मामला of , और sometimes  there is more than one sentence in a single verse , as in the case of .
As the chapter and verse  विभाजन यहूद नहीं भाग of the असली ग्रन्थ , वे रूप  part of the paratext of the Bible .
The Jewish divisions of the Hebrew text  differ at विभिन्न अंक इससे those प्रयुक्त by ईसाइयों  .
For instance , in Jewish tradition , the ascriptions to many Psalms are regarded as independent verses , making  116 अधिक आयतें , whereas the स्थापित ईसाई  practice is to count and number each Psalm ascription together with the first verse following it .
Some chapter divisions also  occur in अलग स्थान , e.g . in  Hebrew Bibles is numbered as in Christian translations .
An index ( plural : indexes ) is a list  of शब्द or वाक्यांश ( 'headings ' ) और संबद्ध संकेतक ( 'लोकेटरs ' ) to जहाँ उपयोगी सामग्री relating  to that heading can be found in a document .
In a traditional  back-of-the-book अनुक्रमणिका the headings होगा शामिल names  of people , places and events , and concepts selected by a person as being relevant and of interest to a possible reader of the book .
The pointers are typically page numbers  , अनुच्छेद संख्याएँ  or section numbers .
In a  पुस्तकालयों कैटलॉग the शब्द  are authors , titles , subject headings , etc. , and the pointers are call numbers .
Internet search engines ,  ऐसे as google , और पूरा टेक्स्ट searching सहायता provide अभिगम to सूचना लकिन हैं नहीं as चयनात्मक  as an index , as they provide non-relevant links , and may miss relevant information if it is not phrased in exactly the way they expect .
In United States financial regulation , a suspicious activity report ( or SAR ) is a report made by a financial institution  to the वित्तीय अपराधों प्रवर्तन संजाल ( fincen ) , an एजेंसी of the संयुक्त राज्य विभाग of the राजकोष  , regarding suspicious or potentially suspicious activity .
फेसबुक  on the Ad-tech 2010
Facebook is an online social networking service , whose  नाम तना इससे the colloquial  name for the book given to students at the start of the academic year by some university administrations in the United States to help students get to know each other .
It was founded in February 2004 by Mark Zuckerberg with his college roommates and fellow Harvard University students  एडुआर्डो saverin , एंड्रयू mccollum , डस्टिन moskovitz  and Chris Hughes .
the जालस्थल 's सदस्यता थी initially सीमित by the संस्थापकों to  Harvard students , but was expanded to other colleges in the Boston area , the Ivy League , and Stanford University .
It gradually added support for  विद्यार्थी at विभिन्न अन्य विश्वविद्यालयों पहले खोलने  to high school students , and eventually to anyone aged 13 and over .
Facebook now allows any users who declare themselves to  be at तनिक 13 सालो बूढ़ा to  become registered users of the site .
Users must  पंजीकरण पहले using the साईट , बाद जिससे वे may बनाएँ a निजी  profile , add other users as friends , and exchange messages , including automatic notifications when they update their profile .
Additionally , users may join common-interest user groups , organized by workplace , school or college , or  अन्य विशेषताएँ , और categorize उनके मित्रों into सूचियाँ ऐसे as `` लोगों इससे  Work '' or `` Close Friends '' .
As  of सितंबर 2012  , Facebook has over one billion active users .
According to a May 2011 Consumer Reports survey , there are 7.5 million  children अंतर्गत 13 साथ खाते और 5 लाख अंतर्गत 10  , violating the site 's terms of service .
In May 2005  , accel साझेदार  invested $ 12.7 million in Facebook , and Jim Breyer added $ 1 million of his own money to the pot .
A  जनवरी 2009 compete.com पढ़ाई क्रमित  Facebook as the most used social networking service by worldwide monthly active users .
Entertainment Weekly included the site on its end-of-the-decade `` best-of '' list  , saying , `` कैसा on धरती  did we stalk our exes , remember our co-workers ' birthdays , bug our friends , and play a rousing game of Scrabulous before Facebook ? ''
Critics , such as Facebook Detox , state that Facebook has turned into a national  obsession in the संयुक्त राज्य , resulting in  vast amounts of time lost and encouraging narcissism .
Quantcast estimates Facebook has 138.9  लाख मासिक अद्वितीय  U.S. visitors in May 2011 .
According to Social Media Today , in April 2010 an estimated 41.6 % ( 129.5 million )  of the u.S. जनसांख्यिकी था a फेसबुक  account .
Nevertheless , Facebook 's market growth  प्रारंभ to स्टाल in कुछ regions , साथ the साईट खोने 7 लाख क्रियाशील  users in the United States and Canada in May 2011 .
Facebook eventually filed for an initial public offering on February 1 , 2012 ,  और थी headquartered  in Menlo Park , California .
Facebook Inc. began  selling भण्डार to  the public and trading on the NASDAQ on May 18 , 2012 .
सल्फोनेमाइड  functional group
hydrochlorothiazide  is a sulfonamide and a thiazide .
furosemide is a सल्फोनेमाइड  , but not a thiazide .
Sulfonamide or sulphonamide is the basis of  अनेक समूह  of drugs .
The original antibacterial sulfonamides ( sometimes called sulfa drugs or sulpha drugs ) are synthetic  रोगाणुरोधी एजेंटों कि contain the सल्फोनेमाइड  group .
Some  sulfonamides हैं भी विहीन of जीवाणुरोधी  activity , e.g. , the anticonvulsant sultiame .
The sulfonylureas and thiazide diuretics are  नए ड्रग समूह आधारित on the जीवाणुरोधी  sulfonamides .
Sulfa allergies are common , hence  medications containing sulfonamides हैं विहित  carefully .
It is important to make a distinction between sulfa drugs and other sulfur-containing drugs and additives , such as sulfates  और sulfites , जिससे हैं chemically unrelated to the सल्फोनेमाइड समूह , और do नहीं कारण the वही hypersensitivity प्रतिक्रियाएँ देखी in the sulfonamides  .
This  is a सूची of वर्ण  from George Lopez .
Domestic geese ( Anser anser domesticus or Anser cygnoides ) are  domesticated धूसर geese ( either ग्रेलैग geese or swan geese ) रखा as मुर्गीपालन लिये उनके मांस  , eggs , and down feathers since ancient times .
30 Seconds to Mars is an  अमरीकी चट्टान बैंड इससे लॉस एंजिल्स  , formed in 1998 .
Since 2007 , the band has consisted of actor Jared Leto ( lead vocals , rhythm  गिटार , songwriter ) , शैनन leto ( ड्रम , percussion ) और tomo miličević ( सीसे  guitar , keyboards ) .
Following the departure of  मैट wachter ( अभी of फ़रिश्ते & airwaves ) in 2007 , टिम kelleher became the bassist लिये the  group , performing live only with both Jared and Miličević recording bass for studio recordings , while Braxton Olita ( keyboards ) was added to the touring lineup in 2009 .
Previously , the group  भी प्रदर्शित guitarists solon bixler ( अभी  of Great Northern ) and Kevin Drake ( now of Polaroid Kiss ) .
To date , 30 Seconds to Mars have released three studio albums – 30 Seconds to Mars ( 2002 ) , A Beautiful Lie ( 2005 ) ,  इस is युद्ध ( 2009 ) और तीन विस्तारित  plays – AOL Sessions Undercover ( 2007 ) , To the Edge of the Earth ( 2008 ) , and MTV Unplugged : 30 Seconds to Mars ( 2011 ) .
30 Seconds to Mars ' music has been associated  ज़्यादातर साथ neo-prog , प्रगतिशील मेटल और post-grunge ,  but they have also included emo , screamo , space rock and synthrock into their music .
They have been compared to Pink Floyd ( who were an influence on  उनके कार्य ) और औजार  because of their use of philosophical and spiritual lyrics , concept albums and their use of experimental music .
A Christmas Story is a 1983 American Christmas comedy film  आधारित on the छोटी कहानियां और semi-fictional उपाख्यानों of लेखक और raconteur जां गड़रिये , आधारित on उसके किताब in परमेश्वर we  Trust , All Others Pay Cash , with some elements derived from Wanda Hickey 's Night of Golden Memories .
It was directed  by bob क्लार्क  .
The film has since become a holiday classic and is shown numerous times on television during the Christmas  ऋतु on the संजाल tbs , प्रायः  in a 24-hour marathon .
In 2012 , the film was  चयनित लिये संरक्षण in the नेशनल फिल्मी रजिस्ट्री by the पुस्तकालयों of कॉंग्रेस लिये होने  `` culturally , historically , or aesthetically significant '' .
A Joe 's Crab Shack  शाखा in  San Diego , CA .
The building was  initially a rowing क्लबों  and was later converted into the restaurant .
Joe 's Crab  shack is an अमरीकी कड़ी  of beach-themed seafood casual dining restaurants owned by Ignite Restaurant Group .
Founded  in ह्यूस्टन , टेक्सास , the रेस्तरां अभी operates  locations all across the United States of America .
It  serves seafood और  American cuisine .
The restaurants also have a gift  दूकान कि बिकता facetious t-shirts featuring वाक्यांश  advertising Joe 's seafood choices .
It is  आधारित in ह्यूस्टन  , Texas .
New York City Cruise Liner Terminal in Hell  's रसोईघर at 52nd गली  .
The New York Passenger Ship Terminal ( also known as the Luxury Liner Row or Manhattan Cruise Terminal or  नई यॉर्क क्रूज टर्मिनल ) is a टर्मिनल लिये ocean-going  passenger ships on Manhattan 's west side .
The terminal consists of North River Piers 88 , 90 , 92 and 94 on the Hudson River between West 46th  और वेस्ट 54th गली  .
(  as a सामान्य नियम , बांध संख्याएँ  in Manhattan can be determined by adding 40 to the corresponding cross-street . )
Ships  अभी डॉक at पियर  88 , 90 and 92 .
बांध 94 on the उत्तर पक्ष is  now used for exhibition space .
Pier 86 , once used by  संयुक्त राज्य लाइनों , is अभी घर  to the USS Intrepid .
In 2003 ,  the टर्मिनल संभाला  900,000 passengers .
The city is forecasting that 1.5  लाख होगा उपयोग the टर्मिनल by 2017  .
The piers are  long और अलावा  .
They were first completed in 1935 to replace the Chelsea  पियर as the नगर 's लक्ज़री  liner terminal .
The new terminal was built to handle bigger ships that had  outgrown the चेल्सी  Piers .
The piers were  संवर in 1970 और हैं फिलहाल undergoing  another $ 150 million renovation .
The renovated  योजनाएँ कॉल लिये it to हैंडल तीन  large ships at a time .
In doing renovations , the  नगर is भी considering  decommissioning Pier 92 .
Logo  of the नई यॉर्क  Cruise Terminal.For
decades the terminal was the only ocean-going  यात्री टर्मिनल in नई यॉर्क  harbor .
With an upsurge in cruise ship traffic and the terminal 's ability to handle comfortably only three large ships at a time , two new terminals have opened in the harbor — the Cape Liberty Cruise Port opened in 2004 in Bayonne , New Jersey ( used by Royal Caribbean Cruise Line , Celebrity Cruises and Azamara  क्रूज़ ) , और the ब्रुकलीन क्रूज टर्मिनल ( प्रयुक्त by the महारानी मरियम 2 और अन्य जहाजों of the कार्निवल निगम  cruise brands ) opened in 2006 in Brooklyn , New York .
The West Side Highway takes a small jog east from the piers to  नीचे वेस्ट 42nd गली क्युकी जब the टर्मिनल थी निर्मित जमीन था to  be taken away from Manhattan to allow for longer piers .
The US Army Corps of Engineers ,  जो कंट्रोल the waterfront आयाम , होता नहीं extend the pierhead लकीर दूर into  the river , so the city extended the pier by cutting away at the land .
The city earlier did this for the Chelsea Piers ; however in  चेल्सी तभी लैंडफिल  was taken away .
At the Passenger Terminal actual  मैनहटन schist थी लिया  away .
इससे डाउनस्ट्रीम  in the river
Many major passenger ships have docked there ,  सहित the rms महारानी मरियम 2 और स्वतंत्रता of the समंदर , पहले the  Brooklyn and Bayonne terminals opened .
The SS Normandie caught fire and subsequently  capsized at इसके बांध 88 berth  during World War II .
The Normandie , renamed USS Lafayette , lies  capsized in the frozen मिट्टी at बांध 88 in the शीत  of 1942
Norwegian  क्रूज लकीर 's जल्द to be नवीनतम जलयान the नॉर्वेजियाई  Breakaway will sail year-round out of the New York Passenger Ship Terminal .
The city will spend $ 4 million to renovate and  उन्नयन the क्रूज  terminal to accommodate the ship .
This is an overview of the regular ,  पुनरावर्ती , और अन्य वर्ण of the  TV series NCIS .
Christian right is a term used in the United States to describe right-wing Christian political groups that  हैं characterized by उनके दमदार support of socially रूढ़िवादी  policies .
Christian conservatives principally seek to apply their understanding of the teachings of Christianity to politics and public policy by  proclaiming the मान of those शिक्षाओं and/or by seeking to उपयोग those शिक्षाओं to influence  law and public policy .
In the U.S. , the Christian right is an informal coalition  formed around a कोर of धर्मान्तरण protestants कि draws `` support इससे नीतियां  conservative Catholics , Jews , Mormons , and occasionally secularists '' who share their goals .
The movement has its roots  in अमरीकी राजनीती going वापस as दूर  the 1940s and has been especially influential since the 1970s .
Their  influence draws , in भाग , इससे grassroots सक्रियता as खूब as उनके फ़ोकस on सोशल मुद्दे और  ability to motivate the electorate around those issues .
The Christian right is notable today for advancing socially conservative positions  on मुद्दे सहित स्कूल दुआ , स्टेम कोशिका शोध ,  homosexuality , contraception , abortion , and pornography .
Although the Christian right is usually associated with the U.S. , the movement has been a key factor in the politics of  कनाडा , the नीदरलैंड्स , उत्तरी आयरलैंड और ऑस्ट्रेलिया , among  others .
Far  ईस्ट गति ( stylized as far★east गति  or abbreviated FM ) is an American hip hop band quartet based in Los Angeles .
The group formed in 2003 and consists of Kev Nish ( Kevin Nishimura ) , Prohgress ( James Roh ) ,  j-splif ( jae choung ) , और dj virman  ( Virman Coquia ) .
Far East Movement 's first claim to fame was their song `` Round Round ''  प्रदर्शित in the हॉलीवुड फिल्म , the तेज़ और the क्रोधित : टोकियो बहाव  , and its subsequent soundtrack , video game and DVD .
Since `` Round Round '' , the group has been featured on various network shows including , ,  अनुगामी , गपशप लड़की , और finishing the खेल ( a प्रदर्शित  film at Sundance 2007 ) .
Their single  `` जैसे a g6 `` hit क्रमांक एक on  the Billboard Hot 100 Chart and on iTunes as well in late October 2010 .
Far East Movement also has the distinction of being the first Asian-American group to  earn a # 1 hit on the बिलबोर्ड  Hot 100 in the United States .
LR44 is the IEC designation for an  क्षारीय 1.5 वोल्ट बटन कोशिका , commonly प्रयुक्त in छोटी led  flashlights , digital thermometers , calculators , calipers , watches , clocks , toys and laser pointers .
LR44  क्षारीय  cell
The battery nomenclature is defined by the International Electrotechnical Commission (  आईईसी ) in इसके 60086-3 मानक ( प्राथमिक बैटरी , भाग 3 देखें  batteries ) .
The letter L indicates the electrochemical  प्रणाली प्रयुक्त ; a जस्ता ऋणात्मक एलेक्ट्रोड , मैंगनीज डाइऑक्साइड  depolarizer and positive electrode , and an alkaline electrolyte .
R44 indicates a round cell 11.4±0.2 mm diameter and  5.2±0.2 mm ऊँचाई as पारिभाषित by the आईईसी मानक 60086  .
Manufacturers have  उनके अपना भाग संख्याएँ  for IEC type LR44 batteries including:
lr44 , lr44g  , LR44GD , LR44H
LR1154 , L1154 , L1154C , L1154F ,  l1154g , l1154h
6135-99-792-8475 ( nsn )
1166a
AG13 , A613 , AG14 ,  ag-14 , g13a , g13-a
157 ,  303 , 357
A76 , GDA76 , GP76A  , gpa7 , gpa75 , gpa76 ,  GPS76A,
1128MP , 208-904 , A-76 , CA18 ,  ca19 , cr44 , d76a , ka , ka76 , ms76h , px76a , px675a  , RPX675 , RW82 , SB-F9 , V13GA
4.5-volt , D , C , AA ,  aaa , aaaa , a23 , 9-volt  , CR2032 and LR44 batteries
Other types of batteries are or were  बना in the r44  size .
Formerly , mercury batteries were made  as बटन कोशिकाएं ( प्रकार mr44 और  NR44 ) .
Zinc-air  बैटरी प्रकार pr44 आवश्यकता  air to work .
Silver-oxide batteries  प्रकार sr44 may provide अतिरिक्त क्षमता  compared to LR44 types but have slightly different voltage characteristics .
Performance of a device  meant to उपयोग a silver-oxide बैटरी may be degraded साथ प्रतिस्थापन  of LR44 types .
Manufacturer 's numbers for  चांदी ऑक्साइड r44 आकार  cells include:
sr44/sr44w/sr44sw
6135-99-651-3240  ( NSN )
sr1154
1107so
1131sop
sg13
s76
EPX76  ( energizer  )
303/357  ( D357H )
Hurricane Katrina was the deadliest and most destructive  अटलांटिक hurricane of the 2005 अटलांटिक  hurricane season .
It was the costliest natural disaster , as well as one of the five  deadliest hurricanes , in the इतिहास of the  United States .
Among recorded Atlantic hurricanes , it was the  छठे strongest overall  .
At least 1,833 people died in the hurricane  और subsequent floods , बनाना it the deadliest u.S. hurricane चूंकि the 1928 okeechobee hurricane  ; total property damage was estimated at $ 81 billion ( 2005 USD ) , nearly triple the damage brought by Hurricane Andrew in 1992 .
Hurricane Katrina formed over the Bahamas on August 23 , 2005 and crossed southern Florida as a  मॉडरेट श्रेणी 1 hurricane , causing कुछ मौतों और बाढ़ वहीँ पहले strengthening  rapidly in the Gulf of Mexico .
The hurricane strengthened to a Category 5 hurricane over the warm Gulf water , but weakened before making its second landfall  as a श्रेणी 3 hurricane on the morning of सोमवार , अगस्त 29 in southeast louisiana  .
It  caused कठोर विनाश साथ the  Gulf coast from central Florida to Texas , much of it due to the storm surge .
The most significant  क्रमांक of मौतों occurred in नई ऑरलियन्स , louisiana , जिससे flooded as  the levee system catastrophically failed , in many cases hours after the storm had moved inland .
Eventually 80 % of the city and large tracts of neighboring  parishes became flooded , और the floodwaters lingered  for weeks .
However , the worst property damage occurred in coastal areas , such as all Mississippi beachfront towns , which were flooded over 90  % in घंटों , as नौकाएँ और कसीनो barges rammed इमारतें  , pushing cars and houses inland , with waters reaching 6–12 miles ( 10–19 km ) from the beach .
The hurricane surge protection failures in New Orleans are considered the worst civil  अभियान्त्रिकी विपत्ति in u.S. इतिहास और prompted a मुकदमा  against the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers ( USACE ) , the designers and builders of the levee system as mandated by the Flood Control Act of 1965 .
Responsibility for the failures and flooding was laid squarely  on the फौज corps in जनवरी 2008 by न्यायधीश stanwood  Duval , U.S. District Court , but the federal agency could not be held financially liable due to sovereign immunity in the Flood Control Act of 1928 .
There was also  an छानबीन of the प्रतिक्रियाएँ इससे संघीय , राज्य और लोकल सरकारें , resulting in the इस्तीफा of संघीय  Emergency Management Agency ( FEMA ) director Michael D. Brown , and of New Orleans Police Department ( NOPD ) Superintendent Eddie Compass .
अनेक एजेंसियों सहित the संयुक्त राज्य coast गार्ड ( uscg ) ,  National Hurricane Center ( NHC ) , and National Weather Service ( NWS ) were commended for their actions .
They  provided सटीक hurricane मौसम  tracking forecasts with sufficient lead time .
Even the most insistent appeals from national , state and local  पब्लिक officials to निवासियों to evacuate पहले the तूफ़ान किया नहीं warn कि the  levees could breach and fail .
U.S. debt from  1940 to 2011  .
Red lines indicate the `` debt held by the public '' and black lines  indicate the कुल नेशनल कर्ज़ or सकल  public debt .
The difference is the `` intragovernmental debt , '' which includes  दायित्वों to सरकारी कार्यक्रम ऐसे as सोशल सुरक्षा  .
Stated as a  सूत्र , नेशनल कर्ज़ = कर्ज़  held by the Public + Intragovernmental Debt .
The second panel shows the two debt figures as a percentage of U.S. GDP ( dollar value  of u.S. आर्थिक उत्पादन लिये कि साल  ) .
The top panel is  deflated so प्रत्येक साल is  in 2010 dollars .
The United States public debt is the money borrowed by the federal government of the United States through  the issuing of प्रतिभूति by the राजकोष और अन्य  federal government agencies .
US public  कर्ज़ consists  of two components:
कर्ज़ आयोजित by the पब्लिक  includes Treasury securities held by investors outside the federal government , including that held by individuals , corporations , the Federal Reserve System and foreign , state and local governments .
Debt held by government accounts or intragovernmental debt includes non-marketable Treasury securities held  in खाते administered by the संघीय सरकारी कि हैं owed to कार्यक्रम  beneficiaries , such as the Social Security Trust Fund .
Debt held by government accounts represents the cumulative surpluses ,  सहित ब्याज आय , of ये खाते कि have महरूम invested  in Treasury securities .
Public debt increases or decreases as a result of the  सालाना एकीकृत बजट deficit  or surplus .
The  संघीय सरकारी बजट deficit or surplus is the अंतर  between government receipts and spending , ignoring intra-governmental transfers .
However , some spending that is excluded from the deficit  ( supplemental appropriations ) भी adds to the  debt .
Historically , the US  पब्लिक कर्ज़ as a share of जीडीपी increased  during wars and recessions , and subsequently declined .
For example , debt held by the public as a share of GDP peaked  बस बाद संसार युद्ध ii ( 113 % of जीडीपी in 1945 ) , लकिन  then fell over the following 30 years .
In recent decades , however , large budget deficits and the resulting  increases in कर्ज़ have led to चिंता परिचय the long-term स्थिरता of the संघीय सरकारी  's fiscal policies .
On 2 April  2013 , कर्ज़ आयोजित by the पब्लिक  was approximately $ 11.959 trillion or about 75 % of GDP .
Intragovernmental holdings stood at $ 4.846 trillion ,  giving a संयुक्त  total public debt of $ 16.805 trillion .
As of January 2013 , $ 5.6 trillion or approximately 47 % of the  कर्ज़ आयोजित by the पब्लिक थी स्वामित्व by विदेशी निवेशकों ,  the largest of which were the People 's Republic of China and Japan at just over $ 1.1 trillion each .
In basketball , an assist is attributed to a player who passes the  बॉल to a teammate in a रास्ता कि लीड to a स्कोर by फ़ील्ड लक्ष्य , अर्थ कि  he or she was `` assisting '' in the basket .
There is some  निर्णय शामिल in deciding  whether a passer should be credited with an assist .
An assist can be scored for the passer even if the player who  receives the pass makes a बास्केट बाद ड्रिब्लिंग the  ball .
However , the original definition of an assist did not include such situations , so the  तुलना of assist आंकडे आरपार eras is a  complex matter .
Only the pass directly before the score may be counted as an assist , so no more  than एक assist can be अंकित प्रति फ़ील्ड लक्ष्य ( नापसंद in अन्य खेल , ऐसे as  ice hockey ) .
A pass that leads to a shooting foul and scoring by free throws does  नहीं गिनती as an assist in the  NBA , but does in FIBA play ( only one assist is awarded per set of free throws in which at least one free throw is made ) .
Point guards tend to get the most assists  प्रति खेल ( apg ) , as उनके भूमिका is primarily  that of a passer and ballhandler .
Centers tend to get fewer assists , but centers with  शुभ मंजिल उपस्थिति और अदालत दृष्टि can  dominate a team by assisting .
Being inside the key , the center often has the best angles and the best  स्थिति लिये `` बर्तन '' और अन्य छोटी गुजरता in the  scoring area .
Center  wilt चेम्बरलेन led the  NBA in assists in 1968 .
A strong  बीच साथ inside-scoring prowess , ऐसे as पूर्व एनबीए बीच hakeem olajuwon , can भी be  an effective assistor because the defense 's double-teaming tends to open up offense in the form of shooters .
The NBA single-game assist record is 30 , held by Scott Skiles of the Orlando Magic against the Denver Nuggets , on  दिसम्बर 30 , 1990  .
The NBA record for most career assists is held  by जॉन स्टॉकटन साथ  15,806 .
The mill or mille ( ) ( sometimes mil in the UK  , जब discussing प्रॉपर्टी कर in the संयुक्त राज्य , or previously  in Cyprus and Malta ) is a now-abstract unit of currency used sometimes in accounting .
In the United States , it is a  notional ईकाई समतुल्य to of a संयुक्त  States dollar ( a tenth of a cent ) .
In the United  किंगडम it थी प्रस्तावित दौरान the दशकों  of discussion on the decimalization of the pound as a division of the pound sterling .
Several other  मुद्राएँ प्रयुक्त the मिल ,  such as the Maltese lira .
The term  आता इससे the लैटिन `` millesimum ''  , meaning `` thousandth part '' .
The  greco-persian युद्धों ( भी प्रायः पुकारा the पारसी युद्धों ) यहूद a श्रेणी of विरोध  between the Achaemenid Empire of Persia and city-states of the Hellenic world that started in 499 BC and lasted until 449 BC .
The collision between the fractious  राजनैतिक संसार of the यूनानियों और the विशाल  empire of the Persians began when Cyrus the Great conquered Ionia in 547 BC .
Struggling to rule the independent-minded cities of Ionia , the Persians appointed  उत्पीड़क to नियम प्रत्येक of उन्हें  .
This would prove to be  the सोर्स of much ट्रबल लिये  the Greeks and Persians alike .
In 499 BC , the then tyrant of Miletus , Aristagoras , embarked on an expedition to  जीतें the द्वीप of naxos , साथ पारसी support ; however , the expedition थी a क़हर  and , pre-empting his dismissal , Aristagoras incited all of Hellenic Asia Minor into rebellion against the Persians .
This was the beginning of the Ionian Revolt  , जिससे होता पिछला जबतक 493 bc , progressively आरेखण अधिक regions of एशिया नाबालिग  into the conflict .
Aristagoras secured military support from Athens and  eretria , और in 498 bc ये शक्तियां helped to  capture and burn the Persian regional capital of Sardis .
The Persian king Darius the  ग्रेट vowed to have बदला  on Athens and Eretria for this act .
The revolt continued  , साथ the दो पहलू  effectively stalemated throughout 497–495 BC .
In 494 BC ,  the फारसियों regrouped , और attacked the  epicentre of the revolt in Miletus .
At the Battle of Lade , the Ionians  suffered a निर्णायक शिकस्त , और the विद्रोह collapsed , साथ  the final members being stamped out the following year .
Seeking to secure his empire from further revolts and from the interference of the  मेनलैंड यूनानियों , दारा embarked on a योजना to जीतें यूनानियों और to सजा  Athens and Eretria for burning Sardis .
The first Persian invasion of Greece began in 492 BC , with  the पारसी सामान्य mardonius conquering thrace और macedon पहले अनेक  mishaps forced an early end to the campaign .
In 490  bc a दूसरी फ़ोर्स थी भेजा to यूनानियों , इस समय आरपार  the Aegean Sea , under the command of Datis and Artaphernes .
This expedition  subjugated the cyclades , पहले  besieging , capturing and razing Eretria .
However , while en route to attack Athens , the Persian force was decisively defeated by the Athenians at the Battle of  मैराथन , समाप्ति पारसी प्रयत्न लिये the  time being .
Darius then began to plan to complete the conquest of Greece , but died in 486 BC and responsibility for  the conquest passed to  his son Xerxes I .
In 480 BC , Xerxes personally led the second Persian invasion of Greece with one  of the largest प्राचीन सेना कभी  assembled .
Victory over the 'Allied ' Greek states ( led by Sparta and Athens ) at the Battle of Thermopylae allowed the  फारसियों to मशाल एथेंस और overrun  most of Greece .
However , while seeking to  नष्ट the संयुक्त यूनानी बेड़े  , the Persians suffered a severe defeat at the Battle of Salamis .
The following year , the confederated Greeks went on the offensive , defeating the Persian army at the Battle of Plataea , and  समाप्ति the आक्रमण of यूनानियों  .
The allied  यूनानियों followed up उनके कामयाबी  by destroying the rest of the Persian fleet at the Battle of Mycale , before expelling Persian garrisons from Sestos ( 479 BC ) and Byzantium ( 478 BC ) .
The  क्रियाएँ of the सामान्य pausanias at the घेरा of byzantium alienated अनेक of the यूनानी राज्य  from the Spartans , and the anti-Persian alliance was therefore reconstituted around Athenian leadership , as the so-called Delian League .
The Delian League continued to campaign against Persia for the next three decades , beginning with the  expulsion of the बाकी पारसी garrisons इससे यूरोपीय  .
At the Battle of the Eurymedon  in 466 bc , the लीग जीती a दोगुना विजय कि आखिरकार secured  freedom for the cities of Ionia .
However , the League  's भागीदारी in an मिश्र विद्रोह ( इससे 460–454 bc ) resulted  in a disastrous defeat , and further campaigning was suspended .
A fleet was sent to Cyprus in  451 bc , लकिन हासिल छोटी , और जब it  withdrew the Greco-Persian Wars drew to a quiet end .
Some historical sources suggest the end of hostilities was marked by a peace treaty  between एथेंस और फारस , the so-called सलाम of callias  .
hooverville निकट पोर्टलैंड  , Oregon
A ``  hooverville  '' is the popular name for shanty towns built by homeless people during the Great Depression .
They were named after Herbert  हूवर , जो थी अध्यक्ष  of the United States during the onset of the Depression and widely blamed for it .
The term was  coined by चार्ल्स माइकेल्सन , publicity  chief of the Democratic National Committee .
Matthew Michael Hasselbeck ( born September 25 , 1975 ) is an  अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल क्वार्टरबैक लिये the इंडियानापोलिस कोल्टस  of the National Football League ( NFL ) .
He was drafted in  the छठे गोलाकार of the  1998 NFL Draft by the Green Bay Packers .
After a season on the practice squad and two seasons backing up Brett Favre ,  he थी traded to the सिएटल  Seahawks in 2001 .
Hasselbeck gained the starting role in 2003 , and led  सिएटल to छह playoff दिखावे और a सुपर कटोरी रूप ; he थी चयनित  to three Pro Bowls and an All-Pro selection .
Following ten seasons with the  सीहॉक्स , hasselbeck  joined the Tennessee Titans in 2011 .
Hasselbeck then  हस्ताक्षरित a अनुबंध साथ the इंडियानापोलिस कोल्टस in 2013 कम  than 24 hours after being released by the Tennessee Titans .
ICT is  inevitably सम्बन्धित to the  computer network .
Information and Communications Technology or ( ICT ) , is often used as an extended synonym for information technology ( IT ) , but is a more specific term that stresses the role of unified communications and the integration of telecommunications (  टेलीफोन लाइनों और बेतार सिग्नल ) , कंप्यूटर as खूब as जरुरी एंटरप्राइज़ तन्त्र , middleware , भंडार  , and audio-visual systems , which enable users to access , store , transmit , and manipulate information .
The phrase  आईसीटी था महरूम प्रयुक्त by अकादमिक शोधकर्ताओं चूंकि the 1980s , लकिन it became लोकप्रिय बाद it थी प्रयुक्त in a रपट to the  UK government by Dennis Stevenson in 1997 and in the revised National Curriculum for England , Wales and Northern Ireland in 2000 .
The term ICT is now also used to refer to the convergence of audio-visual and  टेलीफोन संजाल  with computer networks through a single cabling or link system .
वहीँ हैं विशाल आर्थिक प्रोत्साहन ( विशाल लागत बचत due to विलोपन  of the telephone network ) to merge the audio-visual , building management and telephone network with the computer network system using a single unified system of cabling , signal distribution and management .
The term  infocommunications is प्रयुक्त in कुछ मामले as a  shorter form of information and communication ( s ) technology .
In fact Infocommunications is the expansion of telecommunications with information processing and content  हैंडलिंग कृत्यों on a आम डिजिटल प्रौद्योगिकी  base .
For a comparison  of ये और अन्य शर्तें  , see .
For ICT  विकास अनुक्रमणिका  around the world , see .
This is a list of  वर्ण इससे जार्ज लोपेज़  .
A schematic presentation of the plum pudding model of the atom ; in Thomson 's mathematical model the ``  corpuscles '' ( or आधुनिक electrons ) यहूद  arranged non-randomly , in rotating rings
The current model of the sub-atomic  ढांचा involves a घना केंद्रक घिरी  by a probabilistic `` cloud '' of electrons
The plum pudding model  of the अणु by J. J. thomson , जो खोजा the इलेक्ट्रॉन in 1897 , थी  proposed in 1904 before the discovery of the atomic nucleus in order to add the electron to the atomic model .
In this model , the atom is composed of electrons ( which Thomson still called `` corpuscles '' , though G. J. Stoney had proposed that atoms of electricity be called electrons in  1894 ) घिरी by a सूप of धनात्मक चार्ज to संतुलन the electrons ' ऋणात्मक आरोप , जैसे negatively चार्ज `` plums `` घिरी by positively  charged `` pudding `` .
The electrons ( as we know them today ) were thought to be positioned throughout the atom , but with many structures possible for  positioning अनेक electrons , विशेषकर घूर्णन बजती of electrons ( देखिए  below ) .
बजाय of a सूप , the अणु थी  also sometimes said to have had a `` cloud '' of positive charge .
With this model , Thomson abandoned his earlier `` nebular atom '' hypothesis in which the  अणु थी रचित of immaterial vortices  .
Now , at least part of the atom  थी to be रचित of thomson 's particulate ऋणात्मक corpuscles , हालांकि  the rest of the positively charged part of the atom remained somewhat nebulous and ill-defined .
the 1904 thomson मॉडल थी  disproved by the 1909 gold foil experiment of Hans Geiger and Ernest Marsden .
इस थी interpreted  by Ernest Rutherford in 1911
to  imply a बहुत छोटी केंद्रक of the अणु containing a बहुत ऊँची  positive charge ( in the case of gold , enough to balance about 100 electrons ) , thus leading to the Rutherford model of the atom .
Although gold has an atomic number of 79 , immediately after Rutherford 's paper appeared in 1911  antonius वैन डेन broek बना the सहज सुझाव कि  atomic number is nuclear charge .
The matter  जरूरी  experiment to decide .
Henry Moseley 's work  दिखाया experimentally in 1913 ( देखिए moseley 's विधि ) कि  the effective nuclear charge was very close to the atomic number ( Moseley found only one unit difference ) , and Moseley referenced only the papers of Van den Broek and Rutherford .
This work culminated in the solar-system-like ( but  quantum-limited ) bohr मॉडल of the अणु in the वही साल , in जिससे  a nucleus containing an atomic number of positive charge is surrounded by an equal number of electrons in orbital shells .
Bohr had also  प्रेरित moseley  's work .
Thomson 's  मॉडल थी compared ( हालांकि  not by Thomson ) to a British dessert called plum pudding , hence the name .
Thomson 's paper was published in the March 1904 edition of the Philosophical Magazine , the leading British science  जर्नल of the  day .
In Thomson 's view : ...  the अणु of the तत्व consist of a क्रमांक of negatively  electrified corpuscles enclosed in a sphere of uniform positive electrification , ...
In this model ,  the electrons यहूद फ़्री  to rotate within the blob or cloud of positive substance .
These orbits were stabilized in  the मॉडल by the फैक्ट कि जब an इलेक्ट्रॉन स्थानांतरित दूर  from the center of the positive cloud , it felt a larger net positive inward force , because there was more material of opposite charge , inside its orbit ( see Gauss 's law ) .
In Thomson 's model , electrons were free to rotate in rings which were further stabilized by interactions between  the electrons , और spectra यहूद to be accounted लिये by उर्जा मतभेद  of different ring orbits .
Thomson attempted to make his model account for some of the major spectral lines known for some elements , but  थी नहीं notably कामयाब  at this .
Still , Thomson 's model ( along with a similar Saturnian ring model for atomic electrons , also put forward in 1904 by Nagaoka after James Clerk Maxwell 's model of Saturn 's rings ) , were earlier harbingers of the later  और अधिक कामयाब solar-system-like bohr मॉडल of the अणु  .
Typical strip  of बेकन  .
Bacon is a cured meat prepared  इससे a सुअर  .
It is first cured using large quantities of salt , either in a brine or  in a शुष्क पैकिंग ; the परिणाम  is fresh bacon ( also known as green bacon ) .
भैस बेकन may तब be further  dried for weeks or months in cold air , or it may be boiled or smoked .
Fresh and dried  बेकन is typically पकाया पहले  eating .
Boiled bacon is ready to eat , as is some smoked bacon , but may be  पकाया further  before eating .
Bacon  is prepared इससे  several different cuts of meat .
It is usually made from  पक्ष और वापस कटौती of पोर्क , मगर in the संयुक्त राज्य , जहाँ  it is almost always prepared from pork belly ( typically referred to as `` streaky '' , `` fatty '' , or `` American style '' outside of the US and Canada ) .
The side cut has more  मांस और कम मोटे than the  belly .
Bacon may  be prepared इससे either of दो पृथक वापस कटौती  : fatback , which is almost pure fat , and pork loin , which is very lean .
Bacon-cured pork loin is  ज्ञात as वापस बेकन  .
Uncooked pork belly  बेकन स्ट्रिप्स  .
Bacon may be eaten smoked , boiled ,  fried , baked , or ग्रील्ड  , or used as a minor ingredient to flavor dishes .
Bacon is also used for barding  और larding roasts , विशेषकर खेल , e.g  . venison , pheasant .
The word is derived from the Old High  जर्मनी bacho , अर्थ `` buttock '' , `` हैम '' or `` पक्ष  of bacon '' , and cognate with the Old French bacon .
In continental Europe  , इस भाग of the सुअर is प्रायः नहीं स्मोक्ड जैसे बेकन is  in the United States ; it is used primarily in cubes ( lardons ) as a cooking ingredient , valued both as a source of fat and for its flavor .
In Italy , this is called pancetta and is usually cooked in small cubes or served  uncooked और thinly sliced as  part of an antipasto .
Meat from other animals , such as beef , lamb , chicken ,  बकरी , or तुर्कों , may भी be काटें , cured , or वरना prepared to resemble  bacon , and may even be referred to as `` bacon '' .
Such  उपयोग is आम in क्षेत्रों साथ  significant Jewish and Muslim populations .
The USDA defines bacon as `` the cured belly of a swine carcass '' ; other cuts and  विशेषताएँ जरूर be separately योग्य ( e.g. , `` स्मोक्ड  pork loin bacon '' ) .
For  सुरक्षा , बेकन जरूर be treated to prevent trichinosis  , caused by Trichinella , a parasitic roundworm which can be destroyed by heating , freezing , drying , or smoking .
Bacon is distinguished from salt pork  और हैम by मतभेद  in the brine ( or dry packing ) .
Bacon brine has added curing ingredients , most notably sodium nitrite , and occasionally sodium nitrate  or पोटैशियम नाइट्रेट ( साल्टपीटर ) ; सोडियम ascorbate or erythorbate  are added to accelerate curing and stabilize color .
Flavorings such  as भूरा शुगर or मेपल हैं प्रयुक्त लिये  some products .
If used , sodium polyphosphates are added to improve sliceability and  reduce spattering जब the  bacon is pan fried .
Today , a brine for ham , but not bacon ,  शामिल a विशाल राशि of शुगर  .
historically , `` हैम '' और `` बेकन '' referred to अलग कटौती of  meat that were brined or packed identically , often together in the same barrel .
The Employee  रिटायरमेंट आय सुरक्षा अधिनियम of 1974 ( erisa ) ( , संहिताबद्ध in भाग at ) is  a federal law which establishes minimum standards for pension plans in private industry and provides for extensive rules on the federal income tax effects of transactions associated with employee benefit plans .
ERISA was enacted to protect the interests of employee benefit  योजना भागीदार और उनके beneficiaries  by:
Requiring the disclosure of financial  और अन्य सूचना concerning  the plan to beneficiaries ;
establishing मानकों of  conduct for plan fiduciaries ;
Providing for appropriate  remedies और अभिगम to the  federal courts .
ERISA is sometimes used to  refer to the पूरा देह of कानून regulating कर्मचारी लाभ  plans , which are found mainly in the Internal Revenue Code and ERISA itself .
Responsibility for the  निर्वचन और प्रवर्तन of erisa is विभाजित among the विभाग  of Labor , the Department of the Treasury ( particularly the Internal Revenue Service ) , and the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation .
Illegal immigration to the United  राज्य is the अधिनियम of विदेशी नागरिकों प्रवेश the संयुक्त राज्य , बगैर सरकारी  permission and in violation of United States nationality law , or staying beyond the termination date of a visa , also in violation of the law .
A  चेतावनी चिह्न at the अंतरराष्ट्रीय boundary  between the United States and Canada in Point Roberts , Washington .
A much different approach at the U.S.-Mexico  किनारा निकट el पासो , टेक्सास
The  undocumented अप्रवासी जनसांख्यिकी of the संयुक्त राज्य  in 2008 was estimated by the Center for Immigration Studies to be about 11 million people , down from 12.5 million people in 2007 .
Other estimates  दायरा इससे 7 to 20 लाख  .
According to a 2005 Pew Hispanic Center report , 56 % of undocumented immigrants were from Mexico ; 22 % were from other Latin American countries ; 13 % were from Asia ; 6 % were from  यूरोपीय और कनाडा ; और 3 % यहूद इससे अफ़्रीकी और the बाकी of the संसार .
Alvin Independent School District is a school  ज़िला आधारित in एल्विन , टेक्सास  ( USA ) .
Alvin ISD is a large suburban school district south of Houston in the communities of Alvin , Manvel ,  pearland , hillcrest , rosharon , आयोवा उपनिवेश , लिवरपूल  , and Amsterdam .
AISD serves Pearland city 's rapidly growing western portion of the city  सहित the नई विशाल master-planned समुदायों of छाया  Creek Ranch , South Fork , and Southern Trails .
एल्विन isd कवर  of land .
In human anatomy , the ulnar nerve is a  तंत्रिका जिससे रनों निकट  the ulna bone .
The ulnar collateral ligament of elbow joint is in  संबंध साथ the ulnar तंत्रिका  .
The nerve is the largest unprotected nerve in the human body ( meaning unprotected by  मांसपेशी or अस्थि ) , so चोट  is common .
This nerve is directly connected to  the छोटी उंगली , और the सटा हाफ of the रिंग  finger , supplying the palmar side of these fingers , including both front and back of the tips , perhaps as far back as the fingernail beds .
One method  of injuring the तंत्रिका is to स्ट्राइक the medial epicondyle of the humerus इससे posteriorly  , or inferiorly with the elbow flexed .
The ulnar nerve  is फंस between  the bone and the overlying skin at this point .
This is  commonly referred  to as bumping one 's `` funny bone '' .
This name is thought to be a pun , based on the  ध्वनि प्रतिरूप between the नाम  of the bone of the upper arm , the `` humerus `` and the word `` humorous `` .
Alternatively , according to the Oxford English Dictionary it may refer to  `` the peculiar सनसनी अनुभवी जब it is struck  '' .
Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry , shortened Hogwarts , is a fictional British school of magic for students aged eleven to eighteen , and is the  प्राथमिक सेटिंग लिये the पहला छह किताबे in j.K.  Rowling 's Harry Potter series .
Rowling has suggested that she may have inadvertently taken the name from the hogwort plant ( Croton capitatus ) , which she had seen at Kew Gardens  कुछ समय पहले लिखने the श्रेणी , हालांकि the names `` the  Hogwarts '' and `` Hoggwart '' appear in the 1954 Nigel Molesworth book How To Be Topp by Geoffrey Willans .
हॉग्वार्ट्स स्कूल थी voted as the 36th  best Scottish educational establishment in a 2008 online ranking , outranking Edinburgh 's Loretto School .
According to a director of the Independent Schools Network Rankings ,  it थी added to the स्कूलों लिस्टिंग `` लिये मजा '' और थी तब voted on  .
The U.S.  subprime बंधक संकट थी a नियत of  events and conditions that led to a financial crisis and subsequent recession that began in 2008 .
It was characterized by a rise in subprime mortgage delinquencies and foreclosures , and  the resulting मनाही of प्रतिभूति समर्थित by कहा  mortgages .
Several major financial institutions collapsed in September 2008 , with significant disruption in the flow of  क्रेडिट to व्यवसायों और उपभोक्ता और the onset of  a severe global recession .
There were many causes of the crisis , with commentators assigning different levels of blame to financial  संस्थानों , regulators , क्रेडिट एजेंसियों , सरकारी  housing policies , and consumers , among others .
A proximate cause  थी the वृद्धि in  subprime lending .
The percentage of  lower-quality subprime mortgages  originated during a given year rose from the historical 8 % or lower range to approximately 20 % from 2004 to 2006 , with much higher ratios in some parts of the U.S .
A high percentage of these subprime  mortgages , over 90 % in  2006 for example , were adjustable-rate mortgages .
These two changes were part of a broader trend of lowered lending  मानकों और higher-risk बंधक उत्पाद  .
Further , U.S. households had become increasingly indebted , with the ratio of debt to disposable personal income rising  इससे 77 % in 1990 to 127 % at the समाप्त of 2007 , much of इस बढ़ाएँ mortgage-related  .
When U.S. home prices declined steeply after peaking in mid-2006 , borrowers '  क्षमता to पुनर्वित्त उनके लोन became अधिक  difficult .
As adjustable-rate mortgages began to reset at higher interest rates ( causing higher monthly  भुगतान ) , बंधक delinquencies  soared .
Securities backed with mortgages , including subprime  mortgages , widely आयोजित by वित्तीय firms  globally , lost most of their value .
Global investors also drastically reduced purchases of mortgage-backed debt and other securities as part of a decline  in the क्षमता और willingness of the निजी वित्तीय प्रणाली to support  lending .
Concerns about the  soundness of u.S. क्रेडिट और वित्तीय  markets led to tightening credit around the world and slowing economic growth in the U.S. and Europe .
The crisis had severe , long-lasting  consequences लिये the u.S. और यूरोपीय economies  .
The U.S. entered a  गहन मंदी , साथ nearly 9 लाख कार्य खोया  during 2008 and 2009 , roughly 6 % of the workforce .
U.S. housing prices fell  nearly 30 % on औसत और the u.S. भण्डार  market fell approximately 50 % by early 2009 .
As of early 2013 , the U.S. stock market had recovered to its pre-crisis peak but housing prices  remained निकट उनके कम पाइंट और बेरोजगारी  remained elevated .
Economic growth remained below  pre-crisis स्तर  .
Europe also continued to struggle with  इसके अपना आर्थिक संकट .
Carl Jung  in 1910  .
Myers and Briggs extrapolated their MBTI theory from Jung 's  कृतियाँ in उसके किताब मनोवैज्ञानिक  Types .
The Myers-Briggs Type Indicator ( MBTI )  मूल्यांकन is a psychometric प्रश्नावली designed to माप  psychological preferences in how people perceive the world and make decisions .
These preferences were extrapolated from the typological theories proposed by Carl Gustav Jung and first published in his 1921  किताब मनोवैज्ञानिक प्रकार ( अंग्रेज़ी  edition , 1923 ) .
Jung theorized that there are four principal psychological functions by which we experience  the संसार : सनसनी , अंतर्ज्ञान  , feeling , and thinking .
एक of  these four functions is dominant most of the time .
The original developers  of the व्यक्तित्व inventory यहूद katharine कुक briggs और उसके बेटी , इसाबेल briggs मायर्स  ; these two , having studied extensively the work of Jung , turned their interest of human behavior into a devotion of turning the theory of psychological types to practical use .
They  began बनाना the indicator दौरान संसार युद्ध ii , believing कि a ज्ञान of व्यक्तित्व वरीयताओं  would help women who were entering the industrial workforce for the first time to identify the sort of war-time jobs that would be `` most comfortable and effective '' .
The  आरंभिक प्रश्नावली grew into the myers-briggs  Type Indicator , which was first published in 1962 .
The MBTI focuses on normal populations and emphasizes the  मान of naturally occurring  differences .
Robert Kaplan and Dennis Saccuzzo believe `` the underlying assumption of the MBTI is that we all have specific preferences in the way we  construe हमारी अनुभवों , और ये वरीयताओं underlie हमारी रूचि , needs , मान , और प्रेरणा  '' ( p. 499 ) .
`` Judas ''  is a सोंग by अमरीकी रिकॉर्डिंग कलाकार  Lady Gaga , from her second studio album Born This Way ( 2011 ) .
It was  released by interscope रिकॉर्ड on अप्रैल  15 , 2011 , four days ahead of its scheduled release .
Written and  उत्पादित by महिला गागा और redone , `` यहूदा '' is  a dance and electro house song about a woman in love with a man who betrayed her .
It  embodies the incidents कि have haunted गागा in the पास्ट , और  its core meaning refers to the negative parts of her life that she ca n't escape .
Gaga has further explained that the song was  भी परिचय honoring एक 's भीतरी अंधेरा  in order to bring oneself into the light .
the कलाकृति लिये the सिंगल थी  designed by Gaga in Microsoft Word .
In spite of a polarizing impact on several religious groups , the song was generally  खूब प्राप्त by आलोचकों , जो likened  the song to `` Bad Romance `` with some noting it should have been the album 's lead single .
The song has a similar sound to Gaga 's previous  redone-produced ट्रैक्स , सहित `` पोकर फेस  `` , `` LoveGame `` , `` Bad Romance '' , and `` Alejandro `` .
It contains three distinct  hooks और a हाउस -influenced  break down .
Gaga explained that the lines spoken during the breakdown talk about her as beyond redemption ,  regarding the परंपरागत दृश्य of कया a स्त्री चाहिए be .
`` Judas '' initially had a strong sales opening , but was  कम कामयाब commercially in तुलना  to Gaga 's previous singles .
The song reached the top ten of the charts in most major music markets , and also reached the top of the  चार्ट in दक्षिण कोरियाई  .
A music video for the song was filmed in April 2011 , co-directed by Gaga and Laurieann Gibson  और co-starring नॉर्मन reedus  .
It has a Biblical storyline  जहाँ reedus निभाई यहूदा इस्कैरियट और गागा निभाई  Mary Magdalene .
The video portrays them as  आधुनिक दिन प्रचारकों going  to Jerusalem .
It included the Biblical story  of यहूदा betraying यीशु , और ended  with Gaga as Magdalene getting stoned to death .
Before its release , the Catholic League condemned Gaga for the alleged  उपयोग of धार्मिक  imagery and her role in the video .
However , critics generally praised the  वीडियो , नहीं ढूंढना कोई अप्रिय  content .
The video was  मनोनीत लिये दो पुरस्कार at the 2011  MTV Video Music Awards .
Gaga has performed `` Judas '' on a  क्रमांक of टेलीविज़न shows , सहित  The Graham Norton Show , Saturday Night Live , Good Morning Americas `` Summer Concert Series '' , the French X Factor as well as on The Ellen DeGeneres Show .
Marvin Gaye ( April 2 ,  1939april 1 , 1984 ) , born मारविन pentz gay , jr. , थी an अमरीकी singer-songwriter  and musician .
Gaye helped to shape the sound of Motown Records in the 1960s  साथ a स्ट्रिंग of हिट्स सहित `` कैसा मीठी it is ( to be loved by तुम ) `` और `` i सुना it through the grapevine `` और duet  recordings with Mary Wells and Tammi Terrell , later earning the titles `` Prince of Motown '' and `` Prince of Soul '' .
During the 1970s , Gaye recorded the concept albums What 's  going on और let 's मिलेंगी it on और became among the पहला कलाकारों in motown  to break away from the reins of its production company .
Gaye  's बाद रिकार्डिंग बहकावे  several R & B subgenres such as quiet storm and neo-soul .
Following a period in Europe under a tax exile in the early 1980s , Gaye released the 1982 Grammy  award-winning hit `` यौन healing `` और the मध्यरात्रि  Love album .
Since his death in 1984 , Gaye has been posthumously honored by many institutions , including the Grammy Lifetime  उपलब्धि पुरस्कार और the चट्टान और फेंकें हॉल of कीर्ति  .
The Academy Award for Best Picture is one of the Academy Awards of Merit presented annually by the Academy  of गति चित्र कला और sciences ( ampas ) to निर्माता working in the गति चित्र उद्योग और is the तभी श्रेणी in जिससे  every member is eligible to nominate for .
Best Picture is considered the most important of the Academy Awards , as it represents all the  directing , एक्टिंग , म्यूज़िक composing , लिखने , संपादन  and other efforts put forth into a film .
Consequently , Best Picture is the final award and  the निष्कर्ष of the सालाना अकादमी  Awards ceremony .
The Grand Staircase columns at  the dolby थिएटर in लॉस एंजिल्स , जहाँ the अकादमी पुरस्कार ceremonies  have been held since 2002 , showcase every film that has won the Best Picture title since the award 's inception 85 years ago .
Heavy  बरसात is an इंटरैक्टिव नाटक  action-adventure video game created by French developer Quantic Dream exclusively for the PlayStation 3 .
The game is written and  निर्देशित by quantic सपना 's संस्थापक  and CEO David Cage .
Heavy Rains story is a  नाटकीय थ्रिलर modelled बाद फिल्मी noir , featuring चार protagonists शामिल साथ the रहस्य of the  Origami Killer , a serial killer who uses extended periods of rainfall to drown his victims .
Ethan Mars is trying to save his son from being the next victim ,  जबकि investigative पत्रकार मैडिसन paige , एफबीआई profiler नॉर्मन jayden , और  private detective Scott Shelby are each trying to track down clues to the Origami Killer 's identity .
The player interacts with the game by performing actions highlighted on screen related to motions on the controller , and in some  मामले , performing a श्रेणी of जल्दी समय कार्यक्रम दौरान fast-paced कार्रवाई sequences  .
The player 's decisions and  क्रियाएँ दौरान the खेल होगा affect  the narrative .
The main characters can be killed , and certain actions may  सीसे to अलग दृश्यों और endings  .
A playable demo  थी released on 11  February 2010 .
The demo was released prior to this date for  लोगों जो took भाग in a चार दिन चुनौती on 5 फ़रवरी  2010 .
A patch to allow use of the  प्लेस्टेशन मूव नियंत्रक to खेल the खेल थी  released in September 2010 .
Heavy Rain was  critically acclaimed और  has sold over two million copies .
It won 2010 's Game of the Year  इससे सीएनएन और गेमिंग संघ , और  Best PS3 Game of 2010 by GameSpy and IGN .
A  परिवर्धित संस्करण of the खेल थी released titled भारी बरसात संस्करण modifiée  exclusively in France , aimed towards a younger audience .
In 2010 , the game was included in the  किताब 1001 वीडियो खेल तुम  Must Play Before You Die .
Total superannuation  उद्योग देनदारी : सदस्यों निधि  and reserves ( A $ millions ) since 1988 .
Annual total superannuation industry asset  विकास 1996-2005  .
superannuation in ऑस्ट्रेलिया refers to the इंतजाम जिससे लोगों मेक  in Australia to have funds available for them in retirement .
In Australia , superannuation arrangements are government-supported  और प्रोत्साहित , और न्यूनतम प्रावधानों हैं अनिवार्य लिये  employees .
For example , employers are required to pay a proportion of an employee 's salaries and wages (  फिलहाल 9 % ) into a superannuation निधि , लकिन लोगों  are encouraged to put aside additional funds into superannuation .
The minimum obligation required by employers is set to  बढ़ाएँ to 12 % धीरे stepping  annually from 2013 to 2020 .
an व्यक्तिगत can withdraw निधि आउट of a superannuation निधि जब  the person meets one of the conditions of release contained in Schedule 1 of the Superannuation Industry ( Supervision ) Regulations 1994 .
This is a list of the characters from the  अमरीकी comedy-drama टेलीविज़न श्रेणी the  Game .
Electoral College map showing  the परिणाम of the 2012  U.S. presidential election .
President Barack Obama ( D - IL ) won the popular vote in 26 states and  the ज़िला of कोलंबिया ( denoted  in blue ) to capture 332 electoral votes .
Former Governor Mitt Romney ( R - MA ) won the popular vote in 24  राज्य ( denoted in रेड ) to कैप्चर 206 चुनावी  votes .
Cartogram representation of the Electoral College  vote लिये the 2012 चुनाव ,  with each square representing one electoral vote .
The United States Electoral College is the institution that officially elects the President  और वाइस अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य प्रत्येक  four years .
The  अध्यक्ष और वाइस अध्यक्ष हैं  not elected directly by the voters .
Instead , they are elected by `` electors '' who are chosen by popular  vote on a state-by-state आधार .
Electors are  apportioned to प्रत्येक राज्य और the ज़िला of कोलंबिया , लकिन नहीं to territorial  possessions of the United States , such as Puerto Rico and Guam .
The number of electors in  प्रत्येक राज्य is बराबर to the क्रमांक  of members of Congress to which the state is entitled .
The Twenty-third Amendment has  सदा resulted in the ज़िला of कोलंबिया having तीन निर्वाचक  .
There are  538 निर्वाचक , आधारित on वहीँ होने  435 representatives and 100 senators , plus the three electors from the District of Columbia .
Electors are pledged to particular presidential and vice presidential  उम्मीदवार , हालांकि unpledged  electors are possible .
In all states , except Maine and Nebraska , electors are  निर्वाचित on a `` winner-take-all '' आधार  .
That is , all electors pledged to the  अध्यक्षीय प्रत्याशी जो विन्स  the most votes in a state become electors for that state .
Maine and Nebraska use the `` congressional district method '' , selecting one  elector भीतर प्रत्येक congressional ज़िला by लोकप्रिय vote  and selecting the remaining two electors by a statewide popular vote .
Although no elector is required by federal law to honor a pledge , there  have तभी महरूम बहुत few अवसरों जब an elector voted contrary  to a pledge .
The Twelfth Amendment  specifies कैसा a अध्यक्ष और वाइस अध्यक्ष हैं निर्वाचित और requires  each elector to cast one vote for President and another vote for Vice President .
Critics  argue कि the चुनावी कॉलेज is inherently undemocratic और देता  swing states disproportionate influence in electing the President and Vice President .
The Electoral College gives a numeric advantage in the election of the president to the smaller states ,  as the न्यूनतम क्रमांक of निर्वाचक लिये the छोटी राज्य is तीन  compared to one for the election of representatives .
On the other hand , the winner-take-all  विधि of मतदान favors the  larger states .
A number of constitutional amendments have been proposed seeking to alter the Electoral  कॉलेज or बदलें it साथ a सीधा  popular vote .
बराक hussein ओबामा ii ( ; born अगस्त 4 , 1961 ) is  the 44th and current President of the United States , the first African American to hold the office .
Born in Honolulu , Hawaii ,  ओबामा is a ग्रैजुएट of कोलंबिया विश्वविद्यालयों  and Harvard Law School , where he was president of the Harvard Law Review .
He was a community organizer in  शिकागो पहले कमाई उसके  law degree .
He worked as a civil  अधिकारों attorney in शिकागो और सिखाया संवैधानिक विधि at the  University of Chicago Law School from 1992 to 2004 .
He served  तीन शर्तें representing the 13th ज़िला in the  Illinois Senate from 1997 to 2004 , running unsuccessfully for the United States House of Representatives in 2000 .
In 2004 , Obama received national attention during his campaign to represent Illinois in the United States Senate with his victory in the March Democratic Party primary , his keynote address at the  लोकतांत्रिक नेशनल सम्मेलन in जुलाई , और उसके  election to the Senate in November .
He began his presidential campaign in 2007 , and in 2008 , after a close primary campaign against Hillary  rodham क्लिंटन , he जीती sufficient delegates in the लोकतांत्रिक पार्टी primaries  to receive the presidential nomination .
He then defeated Republican nominee John McCain in the general  चुनाव , और थी उदघाटन  as president on January 20 , 2009 .
Nine months later , Obama was named the 2009 Nobel  सलाम पुरस्कार laureate  .
He was re-elected president in  नवम्बर 2012 , defeating रिपब्लिकन nominee mitt romney , और थी sworn in  for a second term on January 20 , 2013 .
Early in his first term in office , Obama signed into law economic stimulus legislation in response to the Great Recession in the form  of the अमरीकी रिकवरी और reinvestment अधिनियम of 2009 और the कर राहत , बेरोजगारी बीमे reauthorization , और जॉब  Creation Act of 2010 .
Other major domestic initiatives in his presidency include the  रोगी सुरक्षा और सस्ती परवाह अधिनियम , प्रायः referred to as ``  Obamacare '' ; the Dodd–Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act ; the Do n't Ask , Do n't Tell Repeal Act of 2010 ; the Budget Control Act of 2011 ; and the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 .
In May 2012 , he became the first sitting U.S. president to publicly support same-sex marriage and in 2013 his administration filed briefs which  urged the परम् अदालत to नियम in एहसान of same-sex युगल in  two high-profile cases .
In foreign policy , Obama ended U.S. military involvement in the Iraq War , increased  troop स्तर in अफगानिस्तान , हस्ताक्षरित the नई प्रारंभ बाहें कंट्रोल सन्धि साथ  Russia , ordered U.S. military involvement in Libya , and ordered the military operation that resulted in the death of Osama bin Laden .
The Honda  cbr1100xx सुपर blackbird थी a होंडा मोटरसाइकिल  made from 1996 to 2007 .
The bike was developed to challenge the Kawasaki Ninja ZX-11 as the world 's fastest  उत्पादन मोटरसाइकिल , और होंडा succeeded साथ a शीर्ष गति of  .
Two years later the  शीर्षक passed to the  Suzuki Hayabusa , which reached .
The  blackbird is नामित बाद the लॉकहीड  SR-71 , also a speed record holder .
नमूना दृश्य of an इलेक्ट्रॉनिक  health record based on images
Sample  दृश्य of an इलेक्ट्रॉनिक  health record
An electronic health record ( EHR ) is an evolving  अवधारणा पारिभाषित as a व्यवस्थित  collection of electronic health information about individual patients or populations .
It  is a रिकार्ड in डिजिटल स्वरूप कि  is theoretically capable of being shared across different health care settings .
In some cases this sharing can  occur by रास्ता of network-connected enterprise-wide सूचना  systems and other information networks or exchanges .
EHRs may  शामिल a दायरा of आंकड़ा , सहित जनसांख्यिकी , चिकित्सा इतिहास , दवा और allergies , immunization  status , laboratory test results , radiology images , vital signs , personal stats like age and weight , and billing information .
The Mariner up on the mast  in a तूफ़ान  .
One of the  wood-engraved illustrations  by Gustave Doré .
The Rime of the Ancient Mariner (  originally the rime of the ancyent marinere ) is the longest प्रमुख कविता by the अंग्रेज़ी कवि सैमुएल टेलर कॉलरिज  , written in 1797–98 and published in 1798 in the first edition of Lyrical Ballads .
Modern editions use a later  संशोधित संस्करण मुद्रित in 1817 कि  featured a gloss .
Along with other poems in Lyrical Ballads , it was a signal shift to  आधुनिक काव्य और the शुरूआत of अंग्रेजों  Romantic literature .
A proxy auto-config ( PAC ) file defines how web browsers and other user agents can automatically choose the appropriate  प्रॉक्सी सर्वर ( अभिगम विधि ) लिये fetching  a given URL .
A PAC  संचिका contains a जावास्क्रिप्ट  function “FindProxyForURL ( url , host ) ” .
This function  रिटर्न a स्ट्रिंग साथ एक or अधिक  access method specifications .
These specifications cause  the उपयोक्ता एजेंट to उपयोग a particular  proxy server or to connect directly .
Multiple specifications provide a fall-back when a  प्रॉक्सी fails to respond .
The browser fetches this  pac संचिका पहले requesting अन्य  URLs .
The URL of the PAC file is either configured  हस्तचालित or संकल्पित automatically by the वेब प्रॉक्सी  Autodiscovery Protocol .
Zendaya Coleman ( born September 1 ,  1996 ) , ज्ञात mononymously as  Zendaya , is an American actress , singer and dancer .
she  सितारों on the डिज़्नी चैनल  sitcom Shake It Up as Rocky Blue .
She has starred in two films and played one of the  सीसे भूमिकाएँ in the फिल्मी frenemies  as Halley Brandon .
वो voiced फर्न  in the Pixie Hollow Games .
She appeared in Good Luck Charlie as Rocky Blue and in a Good  लक चार्ली और शेक it up क्रॉसओवर  title Charlie Shake It Up .
She appeared on PrankStars as herself in the episode `` Walk The Prank ''  और on a.n.t . फार्म as sequoia जोन्स in the एपीसोड `` रचनात्मक  ConsultANT . ''
zendaya is  also a musician .
She signed a deal with Hollywood Records on August 8 , 2012 and  प्रारंभ रिकॉर्डिंग गीतों लिये उसके डेब्यू एल्बम on अगस्त  12 , 2012 .
She released a single from an independent label called `` Swag It  आउट `` और  another single with Bella Thorne called `` Watch Me , '' which is featured on the Break It Down album .
On March 20 , 2012 , Zendaya and Bella Thorne released an album together  पुकारा शेक it up : सजीव 2 नृत्य , प्रत्येक have उनके अपना सोंग on it , साथ साथ a mash-up  of both songs together as one .
On August 21 , 2012 , Zendaya and Bella Thorne  released an ep पुकारा शेक it up : बना  In Japan .
Zendaya has a Christmas song called `` Shake Santa Shake ,  '' जिससे is on the डिज़्नी चैनल अवकाश प्लेलिस्ट cd , जिससे थी released  on October 2 , 2012 .
On March 5 , 2013 the third Shake It Up soundtrack was released , entitled I < 3  नृत्य ; on it , zendaya रै दो गीतों साथ बेला - `` संक्रामक प्रेम '' और `` इस is my नृत्य मंजिल  '' - as well as one solo song , `` Beat of My Drum . ''
This is a list of  एयरपोर्ट in पेन्सिलवेनिया ( a u.S. राज्य ) , grouped  by type and sorted by location .
It contains all public-use and  सैन्य एयरपोर्ट in the राज्य  .
Some private-use and former airports may be included where notable , such as airports that were previously  public-use , those साथ वाणिज्यिक enplanements अंकित by the faa or एयरपोर्ट आबंटित an  IATA airport code .
iOS ( previously iPhone OS ) is a mobile operating system developed and distributed by Apple Inc . Originally released in 2007 for the iPhone  और ipod टच प्लेटफ़ॉर्म , it रै महरूम विस्तारित to support अन्य ठहराना डिवाइस ऐसे as the ipad और  Apple TV .
नापसंद microsoft 's खिड़कियाँ फोन और google  's Android , Apple does not license iOS for installation on non-Apple hardware .
, Apple 's App Store contained more than 700,000  आईओएस अनुप्रयोग , जिससे have collectively महरूम डाउनलोड  more than 30 billion times .
It had a 21 % share of the smartphone mobile operating system units shipped in the fourth  क्वार्टर of 2012 , पीछे तभी google 's एंड्रॉइड  .
In  जून 2012 , it accounted लिये 65 % of मोबाईल वेब  data consumption ( including use on both the iPod Touch and the iPad ) .
At the half of  2012 , वहीँ यहूद 410  million devices activated .
According to the special media event held  by ठहराना on सितंबर 12 , 2012 , 400 लाख डिवाइस have महरूम बेची through  June 2012 .
The user interface of iOS is based on  the अवधारणा of सीधा हेरफेर , using multi-touch  gestures .
Interface  कंट्रोल तत्व consist of  sliders , switches , and buttons .
Interaction with the OS includes gestures such as swipe , tap , pinch , and reverse pinch , all of which have  विशिष्ट परिभाषाएं भीतर the कॉन्टेक्स्ट of the आईओएस ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली  and its multi-touch interface .
Internal accelerometers are used by some applications to respond to shaking the device ( one common result is the undo command ) or  घूर्णन it in तीन आयाम ( एक आम परिणाम  is switching from portrait to landscape mode ) .
आईओएस is निकला इससे os  X , with which it shares the Darwin foundation .
iOS is Apple 's mobile version of the OS X  ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली प्रयुक्त on ठहराना कंप्यूटर  .
In iOS , there are four abstraction layers  : the कोर os परत , the कोर सेवाएं परत  , the Media layer , and the Cocoa Touch layer .
The current version of the operating system ( iOS 6.1.3 ) dedicates 1-1.5  gb of the यंत्र 's फ्लैश मेमोरी  for the system partition , using roughly 800 MB of that partition ( varying by model ) for iOS itself .
iOS currently runs  on iphone , ipad , ipod  touch and Apple TV .
The  plymouth superbird is प्रसिद्ध  for its extremely high rear wing .
1987 Audi Sport  quattros1 साथ इसके विशाल  wings at Pikes Peak
A spoiler is an automotive aerodynamic device whose intended design function is to 'spoil ' unfavorable air movement  आरपार a देह of a गाडी in गति , प्रायः वर्णित as turbulence  or drag .
Spoilers on the front of a vehicle are often called air dams , because in addition to directing air flow they also reduce  the राशि of एयर बहती underneath the गाडी जिससे generally reduces  aerodynamic lift and drag .
विघ्न हैं प्रायः fitted to  race and high-performance sports cars , although they have become common on passenger vehicles as well .
Some spoilers are added to cars primarily for  स्टाइलिंग उद्देश्य और have either छोटी aerodynamic  benefit or even make the aerodynamics worse .
Spoilers for cars are  प्रायः incorrectly उलझन साथ , or the पद प्रयुक्त  interchangeably with , wings .
Automotive wings are devices whose intended design is to generate downforce as air  गुजरता around उन्हें , नहीं बस disrupt मौजूदा  airflow patterns .
Mario , who serves as Nintendo 's mascot , is a fictional character  निर्मित by खेल पंक्तियां शिगेरू miyamoto और  voiced by Charles Martinet .
This is a list of video games where the character Mario plays a  भाग , either as the समर्थक , विपक्षी , supporting अक्षर , as भाग of  an ensemble cast , as a cameo , or in a game within a game .
It does not include simple  सन्दर्भ to the अक्षर , ऐसे as the portraits  of Mario found in The Legend of Zelda : A Link to the Past .
The year indicated is the year the game was first released , most commonly in Japan ; games were  sometimes released सालो बाद in  other regions of the world .
The list includes ports ,  remakes और compilations  .
It  करता n't शामिल कोई  Virtual Console re-releases .
`` Man of Constant Sorrow '' ( also known as `` I Am A Man of Constant Sorrow '' ) is a  परंपरागत अमरीकी लोक सोंग पहला अंकित by लंड burnett , a partially अँधा fiddler  from Kentucky .
The song was originally  अंकित by burnett as `` विदाई सोंग  '' printed in a Richard Burnett songbook , circa 1913 .
An early version was recorded by Emry  आर्थर in 1928 ( vocalion vo  5208 ) .
Public  ब्याज in the सोंग थी नवीनीकृत  after the release of the 2000 film O Brother , Where Art Thou ?
, as it plays a central role in  the फिल्मी 's  plot .
the सोंग थी भी शामिल  in the film 's highly successful , multiple-platinum selling soundtrack .
Josephson junction array chip developed by  the नेशनल ब्यूरो of मानकों  as a standard volt
The volt ( symbol : V ) is the SI derived unit for electric potential ( voltage ) , electric  संभावित अंतर , और विद्युतवाहक  force .
The volt is named in honor of the Italian physicist  alessandro volta ( 1745–1827 ) , जो  invented the voltaic pile , possibly the first chemical battery .
A plaque commemorating the location of the Sarajevo assassination and  कदम of gavrilo princip ( चित्र लिया in 1987 , पहले कदम यहूद removed in 1992 और प्लैक  changed from Cyrillic to Latin script )
A plaque commemorating the  स्थान of the साराजेवो  assassination ( image taken in 2009 )
On 28 June 1914 , Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria , heir presumptive to the Austro-Hungarian throne , and his wife , Sophie , Duchess of Hohenberg , were  शॉट मुर्दे in साराजेवो , by gavrilo princip , एक of a समूह of छह बोस्नियाई serb हत्यारे समन्वित  by Danilo Ilić .
The political objective of the  हत्या थी to ब्रेक बंद austria-hungary 's  south-Slav provinces so they could be combined into a Greater Serbia or a Yugoslavia .
The  हत्यारे ' motives यहूद सतत  with the movement that later became known as Young Bosnia .
सर्बियाई सैन्य अधिकारियों  stood behind the attack .
At the top of these Serbian military conspirators was Chief  of सर्बियाई सैन्य प्रज्ञा dragutin dimitrijević  , his righthand man Major Vojislav Tankosić , and Masterspy Rade Malobabić .
Major Tankosić  हथियारबंद the हत्यारे साथ बम और  pistols and trained them .
The assassins were given access to the same clandestine tunnel of safe-houses  और एजेंटों कि rade  Malobabić used for the infiltration of weapons and operatives into Austria-Hungary .
The assassins , the key members of  the clandestine टनल , और the कुंजी सर्बियाई सैन्य षड्यंत्रकारियों जो यहूद स्टिल जिंदा  were arrested , tried , convicted and punished .
Those  जो यहूद गिरफ्तार in बोस्निया  were tried in Sarajevo in October 1914 .
the अन्य षड्यंत्रकारियों यहूद गिरफ्तार और आजमाया पहले a सर्बियाई कंगारू अदालत on the  French-controlled Salonika Front in 1916–1917 on unrelated false charges ; Serbia executed three of the top military conspirators .
much of कया is ज्ञात  about the assassinations comes from these two trials and related records .
Assignment of responsibility for the bombing and murders of 28 June is highly  विवादास्पद क्युकी the आक्रमण led to the outbreak  of World War I one month later .
Mission San Juan Capistrano was a Spanish  मिशन in दक्षिणी कैलिफ़ोर्निया , स्तिथ in present-day सैन  Juan Capistrano .
It was founded on All Saints ' Day November 1 ,  1776 , by स्पेनी catholics of the franciscan  Order .
Named for Giovanni da Capistrano , a 15th century theologian and `` warrior priest '' who resided in the Abruzzo region of Italy , San Juan Capistrano has  the भेद of होने घर to the oldest भवन in कैलिफ़ोर्निया स्टिल in उपयोग , a चैपल निर्मित in 1782 .
Known alternately as `` Serra 's Chapel '' and ``  पिता सेरा 's गिरिजाघर , '' it is the तभी extant ढांचा जहाँ it रै महरूम प्रलेखित  that the padre Junipero Serra celebrated mass .
One of the best known of the Alta California missions ( and one  of the few मिशन to have दरअसल महरूम संस्थापित twice—others होने मिशन सैन  Gabriel Arcángel and Mission La Purísima Concepción ) .
The site was originally consecrated on October 30 , 1775 , by Father Fermín Lasuén , but was quickly  abandoned due to अशांति among the स्वदेशी जनसांख्यिकी  in San Diego .
The success of the  उपनिवेश is evident  in its historical records .
Prior to the  आगमन of the प्रचारकों , कुछ 550 natives यहूद  scattered throughout the local area .
By 1790 , the number of converted Christians had grown to 700 , and just six years  बाद nearly 1,000 `` neophytes `` ( हाल converts ) जिया in  or around the Mission compound .
1,649 baptisms  यहूद conducted कि साल अलोन , आउट of the कुल 4,639  souls converted between 1776 and 1847 .
अधिक than 2,000 पूर्व निवासियों ( ज़्यादातर juaneño  Indians ) are buried in unmarked graves in the Mission 's cemetery ( campo santo ) .
The remains of  पिता ( बाद monsignor ) st. जॉन o'sullivan , जो पहचाना the प्रॉपर्टी 's ऐतिहासिक मान और working tirelessly to conserve  and rebuild its structures , are buried at the entrance to the cemetery on the west side of the property , and a statue raised in his honor stands at the head of the crypt .
The surviving chapel also serves as the final resting place of three padres who passed on while serving at the Mission : Fathers José Barona ,  विसेंट fustér , और विसेंट पास्कुआल oliva हैं सब entombed beneath  the sanctuary floor .
The Criolla or `` Mission grape , '' was first planted at San Juan Capistrano in 1779 ; in  1783 , the पहला वाइन उत्पादित in alta कैलिफ़ोर्निया उभरा  from the Mission 's winery .
The Mission entered a long period of  क्रमिक मनाही बाद secularization in  1833 .
Numerous efforts were made over the years to restore the Mission to its former glory , but none met with great success until  the आगमन of पिता o'sullivan  in 1910 .
Restoration efforts continue , and `` Serra 's Chapel  '' is स्टिल प्रयुक्त लिये धार्मिक सेवाएं  .
About half-a-million visitors , including 80,000  स्कूल children , आइये to the मिशन प्रत्येक साल  .
And while the ruins of ``  the ग्रेट स्टोन गिरिजाघर '' ( जिससे थी सब लकिन leveled by an 1812 भूकंप ) हैं a प्रसिद्ध architectural  wonder , the Mission is perhaps best known for the annual `` Return of the Swallows '' which is traditionally observed every March 19 ( Saint Joseph 's Day ) .
Mission San Juan Capistrano has served as a favorite subject for many notable artists , and has been immortalized in literature and on film  numerous टाइम्स , शायद अधिक than कोई अन्य मिशन  .
In 1984 , a modern church complex was  constructed बस उत्तर और वेस्ट of the मिशन यौगिक  and is now known as Mission Basilica San Juan Capistrano .
Today , the mission compound serves as a museum , with the Serra Chapel  भीतर the यौगिक सेवारत as a चैपल लिये the मिशन मोहल्ला  .
बेहतर बंद मुर्दे is a 1985 अमरीकी  teen romantic comedy film starring John Cusack and written and directed by Savage Steve Holland .
It tells the story of high school student Lane Myer who is suicidal after his girlfriend breaks  up साथ उसे .
mercedes-benz superdome ( originally louisiana superdome और commonly  The Superdome ) is a sports and exhibition stadium , located in the Central Business District of New Orleans , Louisiana , USA .
Plans were drawn up in 1967 , by the New Orleans  modernist architectural कड़ of कर्टिस और डेविस  .
Its steel frame covers a  expanse  .
इसके गुम्बद is बना of a lamella multi-ringed  frame and has a diameter of , making it the largest fixed domed structure in the world .
It is home to the NFL 's New Orleans Saints , the NCAA 's Division I-A Tulane Green Wave football team ( the largest football stadium in  सम्मेलन यूएसए ) , the राज्य फार्म bayou क्लासिक , the r+l  Carriers New Orleans Bowl , the Allstate Sugar Bowl and , every fourth year , the BCS National Championship Game .
Because of the size and location in one  of the प्रमुख पर्यटक गंतव्यों in the संयुक्त राज्य  , the Superdome routinely makes the `` short list '' of candidates being considered for major sporting events , such as the Super Bowl and the Final Four .
In 2005 , the Superdome gained international attention of a  अलग प्रकार जब it housed हज़ारों of लोगों seeking  shelter from Hurricane Katrina .
The building suffered extensive damage as a result of  the तूफ़ान , और थी बंद लिये अनेक महीने  afterward .
On  अक्तूबर 3 , 2011 , it थी घोषित  that German automaker Mercedes-Benz purchased naming rights to the stadium .
The new name took effect on  अक्तूबर 23 , 2011  .
It is the third stadium that has naming  अधिकारों इससे mercedes-benz ( और पहला in the संयुक्त राज्य ) , बाद  the Mercedes-Benz Arena , the stadium of Bundesliga club VfB Stuttgart , in Stuttgart , Germany and the Mercedes-Benz Arena in Shanghai , China .
लॉबी of जम्बो  House
Giraffe on the  savannah at जम्बो  House
Disney 's Animal Kingdom Lodge  is an african-themed डीलक्स रिज़ॉर्ट  at the Walt Disney World Resort .
it खोली on अप्रैल  16 , 2001 .
the रिज़ॉर्ट is स्वामित्व  and operated by Walt Disney Parks and Resorts .
Disney 's Animal Kingdom Lodge is located in the Animal Kingdom Resort Area  , सटा to डिज़्नी 's एनिमल  Kingdom .
It gives guests the  अवसर to दृश्य चरने वन्यजीव बाहर उनके कक्ष और  public areas in the resort within proximity of the animals , conveying the feeling of being in an African savanna .
The People 's Party , also  ज्ञात as the `` populists '' , थी a short-lived राजनैतिक पार्टी in the  United States established in 1891 during the Populist movement ( United States , 19th Century ) .
It was most important in  1892-96 , और तब rapidly धुंधली दूर  .
Based  among ग़रीब , श्वेत कपास किसानो in the दक्षिण ( विशेषकर उत्तर कैरोलिना , अलबामा  , and Texas ) and hard-pressed wheat farmers in the plains states ( especially Kansas and Nebraska ) , it represented a radical crusading form of agrarianism and hostility to banks , railroads , and elites generally .
It sometimes formed coalitions with labor unions , and  in 1896 the डेमोक्रेट endorsed उनके अध्यक्षीय nominee  , William Jennings Bryan .
The terms `` populist '' and `` populism `` are  commonly प्रयुक्त लिये anti-elitist appeals in विपक्ष to स्थापित रूचि  and mainstream parties .
भाषाई मैप of सीरियल  , Cameroon , and Benin .
Sign in English , outside  the विश्वविद्यालयों  of Lagos
There are hundreds of  भाषाएं  spoken in Nigeria .
The major languages are Yoruba , Hausa ,  इग्बो , ईदो , fulfulde , कनूरी ,  and Ibibio .
The official language of Nigeria , English , the former colonial language , was chosen to  सुकर the सांस्कृतिक और भाषाई एकता of the देश  .
English , however , remains an exclusive preserve of the  देश 's शहरी elite , और is नहीं widely बोला in ग्रामीण क्षेत्रों , जिससे comprise  three quarters of the countries population .
सीरियल 's भाषाई विविधता is a microcosm of अफ़्रीकी as a पूरे  , encompassing three major African languages families : Afroasiatic , Nilo-Saharan , and Niger–Congo .
Nigeria also has several as-yet unclassified languages , such as Cen Tuum , which may represent a relic of an even greater diversity prior to the spread of the current  भाषा परिवारों  .
A series of events led to the  आक्रमण on पर्ल  Harbor .
युद्ध between जापानी और the संयुक्त राज्य था महरूम a  possibility that each nation 's military forces planned for since the 1920s , though real tension did not begin until the 1931 invasion of Manchuria by Japan .
Over the next decade ,  जापानी विस्तारित धीरे into चीन ,  leading to all out war between the two in 1937 .
In 1940 Japan  invaded फ्रेंच इंडोचायना in an प्रयत्न to embargo सब imports into  China , including war supplies purchased from the U.S .
This move prompted the United States to embargo all oil exports ,  अग्रणी the इम्पीरियल जापानी नेवी to अनुमान कि it था  less than two years of bunker oil remaining and to support the existing plans to seize oil resources in the Dutch East Indies .
Planning had been underway for some time on an attack on  the `` दक्षिणी संसाधन क्षेत्रफल '' to add it to the वृहद ईस्ट एशिया co-prosperity  Sphere that Japan envisioned in the Pacific .
The Philippine islands , at that time an  अमरीकी territory  , were also a Japanese target .
The Japanese military concluded that an  आक्रमण of the फिलीपीन होता provoke an  American military response .
Rather than seize and fortify the islands , and wait for the inevitable US counterattack , Japan 's military leaders instead  decided on the pre-emptive पर्ल हार्बर आक्रमण , जिससे वे assumed होता negate the अमरीकी  forces needed for the liberation and reconquest of the islands .
Planning for the attack had begun in very early  1941 , by admiral isoroku यामामोटो  .
He  आखिरकार जीती assent इससे the नवल ऊँची कमांड by , among  other things , threatening to resign .
The attack was approved in the summer at  an इम्पीरियल सम्मेलन और again  at a second Conference in the fall .
simultaneously over the साल , पायलटों  were trained , and ships prepared for its execution .
Authority for the attack was granted at the  दूसरी इम्पीरियल सम्मेलन if a राजनयिक परिणाम  satisfactory to Japan was not reached .
After final approval by Emperor Hirohito the order to attack was issued  at the शुरूआत of दिसम्बर  .
A  आम दफ्तर stapler
A  आम  school stapler
A stapler is a mechanical device that joins sheets of paper or similar material by driving a  पतला मेटल स्टेपल through the चादरें और फोल्डिंग the ends .
Staplers are widely used in government ,  कारोबार , कार्यालयों , घरों  and schools .
The word `` stapler '' can actually  refer to a क्रमांक of अलग  devices of varying uses .
In addition to joining paper sheets together ,  staplers can भी be प्रयुक्त in a सर्जिकल सेटिंग to जुड़ें ऊतक साथ साथ सर्जिकल स्टेपल्स  to close a surgical wound ( much in the same way as stitches or sutures ) .
typically , सबसे  staplers are used to join multiple sheets of paper .
Paper staplers come in  दो पृथक प्रकार : हस्तचालित और  electric .
Manual staplers are normally hand-held ,  हालांकि मॉडल कि हैं प्रयुक्त जबकि नियत on a डेस्क  or other surface are not uncommon .
इलेक्ट्रिक staplers मौजूद  in a variety of different designs and models .
Their primary  ऑपरेटिंग फलन is to जुड़ें विशाल संख्याएँ of  paper sheets together in rapid succession .
Some  इलेक्ट्रिक staplers  can join up to 20 sheets at a time .
Swallowing , known scientifically as deglutition , is the process in the human or animal body that  makes कुछ pass इससे the मुँह , to the pharynx , और into the  esophagus , while shutting the epiglottis .
If this fails  और the ऑब्जेक्ट goes through the  trachea , then choking or pulmonary aspiration can occur .
In the human body it is controlled  by the swallowing reflex  .
Thaddeus Stevens ( April 4 , 1792 – August 11 , 1868 ) , of Pennsylvania , was a leader of the Radical  रिपब्लिकन गुट of the रिपब्लिकन पार्टी और a  fierce opponent of slavery .
He was one of  the सबसे influential  members in the history of Congress .
As chairman of the powerful House Ways and Means Committee , Stevens , a witty , sarcastic speaker and flamboyant party  नेता , वर्चस्व the हाउस इससे 1861  until his death .
He wrote much of the financial legislation  कि सशुल्क लिये the अमरीकी सिविल युद्ध  .
Stevens and Senator Charles Sumner were the prime leaders of  the कट्टरपंथी republicans दौरान the  war and Reconstruction era .
Scholarly views of Stevens have swung sharply since his death as  interpretations of पुनर्निर्माण have  changed .
इतिहासकारों of the dunning स्कूल ( 1890s–1940s ) आयोजित स्टीवंस जिम्मेदार लिये demanding हर्ष उपचार of the श्वेत  South and violating American traditions of republicanism , depicting Stevens as a villain for his advocacy of harsh measures in the South such as disfranchising all ex-Confederates .
This highly negative  characterization आयोजित sway into  the 1950s .
The rise of the neo-abolitionist school in the 1950s led to a strong positive appreciation of  स्टीवंस ' कार्य on सिविल अधिकारों लिये freedmen  .
A recent biographer characterizes him as , `` The Great Commoner , savior of free public education in Pennsylvania , national Republican leader in the struggles against slavery in the United States and intrepid mainstay of the attempt to secure racial  इंसाफ लिये the freedmen दौरान पुनर्निर्माण , the तभी सदस्य of the हाउस of प्रतिनिधि कभी to have महरूम ज्ञात  as the 'dictator ' of Congress . ''
Overview of  the अनुवाद of  eukaryotic messenger RNA
आरेख प्रर्दशित the अनुवाद  of mRNA and the synthesis of proteins by a ribosome
In molecular biology and genetics , translation is the  प्रक्रम through जिससे सेल्यूलर  ribosomes manufacture proteins .
It is  भाग of the प्रक्रम  of gene expression .
In translation , messenger RNA ( mRNA )  उत्पादित by ट्रांसक्रिप्शन is decoded by the राइबोसोम to उपज a विशिष्ट अमीनो एसिड कड़ी  , or polypeptide , that will later fold into an active protein .
In bacteria ,  अनुवाद occurs in the कोशिका 's कोशिकाद्रव्य , जहाँ the विशाल और  small subunits of the ribosome are located , and bind to the mRNA .
In eukaryotes , translation  occurs आरपार the झिल्ली of the endoplasmic reticulum  in a process called vectorial synthesis .
The ribosome facilitates decoding by inducing the binding of tRNAs with complementary  anticodon sequences to कि  of the mRNA .
The tRNAs carry specific amino acids that are  chained साथ into a polypeptide as the mrna  passes through and is `` read '' by the ribosome in a fashion reminiscent to that of a stock ticker and ticker tape .
In many instances , the entire  ribosome/mrna जटिल बांधता to the बाहरी झिल्ली of the अशिष्ट endoplasmic reticulum और रिलीज the nascent प्रोटीन polypeptide  inside for later vesicle transport and secretion outside of the cell .
Many types of transcribed RNA , such as transfer RNA ,  ribosomal rna , और छोटी नाभिकीय rna , do नहीं undergo  translation into proteins .
Translation  proceeds in चार phases : दीक्षा , elongation , translocation  and termination ( all describing the growth of the amino acid chain , or polypeptide that is the product of translation ) .
Amino acids are  brought to ribosomes और समवेत  into proteins .
In activation , the  सही अमीनो एसिड is covalently बंधुआ  to the correct transfer RNA ( tRNA ) .
The amino acid is  joined by इसके carboxyl  group to the 3 ' OH of the tRNA by an ester bond .
When the tRNA has an  अमीनो एसिड linked to it , it  is termed `` charged '' .
Initiation involves the small subunit of the ribosome binding to the 5 ' end of mRNA with  the सहायता of दीक्षा कारकों (  IF ) .
Termination of the  polypeptide happens जब the a साईट of the  ribosome faces a stop codon ( UAA , UAG , or UGA ) .
No tRNA can  recognize or bind to इस  codon .
Instead , the stop  codon induces the बाइंडिंग of a रिलीज फ़ैक्टर प्रोटीन कि prompts  the disassembly of the entire ribosome/mRNA complex .
A number of antibiotics act by inhibiting translation ; these include anisomycin , cycloheximide ,  chloramphenicol , tetracycline , streptomycin , erythromycin , और puromycin , among अन्य  .
Prokaryotic ribosomes have a different structure from that of eukaryotic ribosomes ,  और यूँ एंटीबायोटिक can specifically  target bacterial infections without any detriment to a eukaryotic host 's cells .
a मल्टीमीडिया  message on a mobile phone .
Multimedia Messaging Service ( MMS ) is a standard way to send messages that include  मल्टीमीडिया सामग्री to और इससे मोबाईल फोन  .
It extends the core SMS ( Short Message Service ) capability that  अनुमत एक्सचेंज of टेक्स्ट संदेश तभी up to 160 वर्ण  in length .
The most popular use is to send photographs from camera-equipped handsets , although it is also popular as a method of delivering  न्यूज और entertainment सामग्री सहित वीडियो , तस्वीरें , टेक्स्ट पृष्ठों और ringtones  .
The standard is developed by the Open Mobile  गठबंधन ( ओमो ) , हालांकि दौरान विकास it  was part of the 3GPP and WAP groups .
Smallpox was an infectious disease unique  to इंसानो , caused by either of दो  virus variants , Variola major and Variola minor .
The disease is also known by the Latin names Variola or Variola vera , derived  इससे varius ( `` spotted '' ) or varus ( `` मुंहासे '' )  .
The disease was originally known in English as the `` pox '' or `` red  प्लेग '' ; the पद `` smallpox '' थी पहला  used in Britain in the 15th century to distinguish variola from the `` great pox '' ( syphilis ) .
The last naturally occurring case of smallpox ( Variola minor )  थी diagnosed on 26 अक्तूबर 1977  .
Smallpox localized in  छोटी रक्त  vessels of the skin and in the mouth and throat .
In the  स्किन it resulted in a characteristic  maculopapular rash and , later , raised fluid-filled blisters .
V. major produces a more serious  बीमारी और रै an overall  mortality rate of 30–35 % .
V. minor causes a milder form of disease ( also known  as alastrim , cottonpox , milkpox  , whitepox , and Cuban itch ) which kills about 1 % of its victims .
Long-term complications of  V. प्रमुख संक्रमण शामिल characteristic  scars , commonly on the face , which occur in 65–85 % of survivors .
Blindness resulting from corneal ulceration and scarring , and limb deformities due to  गठिया और osteomyelitis हैं कम आम  complications , seen in about 2–5 % of cases .
Smallpox  is believed to have  emerged in human populations about 10,000 BC .
The earliest physical evidence of it is probably the pustular  खाज on the mummified देह of pharaoh ramses v of मिश्र  .
The disease killed an estimated 400,000  europeans annually दौरान the closing सालो of the 18th सदी (  including five reigning monarchs ) , and was responsible for a third of all blindness .
Of all those infected ,  20–60 % —and over 80 %  of infected children—died from the disease .
Smallpox was responsible for an estimated  300–500 लाख मौतों  during the 20th century .
As recently as 1967 , the World Health Organization ( WHO ) estimated that 15  लाख लोगों contracted the बीमारी और कि दो  million died in that year .
After  टीकाकरण अभियान throughout the 19th और 20th सदियां ,  the WHO certified the eradication of smallpox in 1979 .
Smallpox is one of two infectious diseases to have been eradicated , the  अन्य होने rinderpest , जिससे थी घोषित eradicated  in 2011 .
`` I Want to Hold Your Hand ''  is a सोंग by the  English rock band the Beatles .
Written by John Lennon and Paul McCartney , and recorded in October 1963 , it was the  पहला बीटल्स रिकार्ड to be बना using four-track  equipment .
With advance orders exceeding one million copies in the United Kingdom , `` I Want to Hold Your Hand '' would ordinarily  have गए सीधा to the शीर्ष of the अंग्रेजों रिकार्ड चार्ट on इसके दिन of रिलीज ( 29 नवम्बर 1963 ) था it नहीं महरूम  blocked by the group 's first million seller `` She Loves You `` , the Beatles ' previous UK single , which was having a resurgent spell in the top position following intense media coverage of the group .
Taking two weeks to dislodge its predecessor , `` I Want to Hold Your Hand '' stayed at number  एक लिये पाँच सप्ताह और remained in the uk शीर्ष पचास लिये  twenty-one weeks in total .
It was also the group 's first American number one , entering the  बिलबोर्ड hot 100 चार्ट on 18 जनवरी 1964 at क्रमांक  forty-five and starting the British invasion of the American music industry .
By 1 February it held the number one spot — for seven  सप्ताह — पहले होने replaced by `` वो loves तुम '' , a रिवर्स परिदृश्य of कया था  occurred in Britain , and remained in the US charts for a total of fifteen weeks .
`` i want  to Hold Your Hand '' became the Beatles ' best-selling single worldwide .
A gasser  थी a प्रकार of hot लाठी originating on the dragstrips of the संयुक्त राज्य  in the late 1950s and continued until the early 1970s .
Gassers were based on production models from the 1930s to  mid-1960s , जिससे have महरूम stripped of extraneous वज़न और jacked up using a ट्रक बीम धुरी to provide बेहतर वज़न वितरण  on acceleration ( Beam axles are also lighter than an independent front suspension ) , though a raised stock front suspension is common as well .
Common weight  कटौती तकनीकों शामिल fiberglass देह panels  , stripped interiors and plexiglass windows ( sometimes color tinted ) .
Because they were primarily  निर्मित लिये रेसिंग , ये गाड़ियाँ typically  had the engine swapped to a larger or more powerful one , the existing stock engine modified ( often heavily ) or both .
It was very common to fit a Roots supercharger and mechanical fuel injection , such as one  इससे algon , hilborn , or crower  .
With form being dictated by function , their appearance is often very top heavy and ungainly , largely due to front  ends होने उठाया उच्चतर than भण्डार , to assist in the  weight transfer during rapid acceleration ( racing ) .
Having their exhaust pipes exit through the  सामने फेंडर खूब is a आम characteristic of gassers  , as is having bodies painted in flamboyant metalflakes , pearls , and candy finishes complemented by lettering in wild fonts .
The name arose because they competed in a gasoline -fueled drag  रेसिंग क्लास , बल्कि than एक using methanol or nitromethane  .
The gasser is the predecessor  of the आधुनिक मजेदार car  .
Twelve-lead EKG of a  26-year-old  male
Electrocardiography ( ECG or EKG from ) is a transthoracic ( across the thorax or chest ) interpretation of the electrical activity of the heart over a period of time , as  detected by electrodes संलग्न to the सतह of  the skin and recorded by a device external to the body .
The  रिकॉर्डिंग उत्पादित by इस noninvasive  procedure is termed an electrocardiogram ( also ECG or EKG ) .
An ECG is used to measure the rate and regularity of heartbeats , as well as the size and position of the chambers , the presence of any damage  to the दिल , और the प्रभाव of दवाएँ or डिवाइस प्रयुक्त to  regulate the heart , such as a pacemaker .
Most ECGs are performed for diagnostic or research purposes on human hearts , but may also be  performed on पशु , प्रायः लिये निदान  of heart abnormalities or research .
Donald John Trump , Sr. ( born June  14 , 1946 ) is an अमरीकी कारोबार महारथी  , television personality and author .
He is the chairman and  अध्यक्ष of the ट्रम्प संगठन और the  founder of Trump Entertainment Resorts .
Trump 's extravagant lifestyle , outspoken manner , and role on the NBC reality show The  प्रशिक्षु have बना उसे a well-known हस्ती जो थी no .  14 on the 2012 Forbes Celebrity 100 list .
Trump is the son of Fred Trump , a wealthy  नई यॉर्क नगर real-estate  developer .
He worked for his father 's firm , Elizabeth Trump & Son , while  उपस्थित the व्हार्टन स्कूल of the विश्वविद्यालयों of पेन्सिलवेनिया , और in 1968 officially joined  the company .
He was  दिए कंट्रोल of the कम्पनी in 1971 और  renamed it The Trump Organization .
In 2010 , Trump expressed an interest in becoming a candidate for president of the United States in the 2012 election  , हालांकि in may 2011 , he घोषित he होता  not be a candidate .
In December 2011 ,  ट्रम्प थी सुझाया as a संभावित  vice presidential selection by Michele Bachmann , if she were to win the Republican nomination .
`` A Change Is Gon na Come '' is a 1964 single by R & B singer-songwriter Sam  cooke , लिखा और पहला अंकित in 1963 और released अंतर्गत  the RCA Victor label shortly after his death in late 1964 .
Though only a modest hit for  cooke in तुलना साथ उसके पिछला singles  , the song came to exemplify the 1960s ' Civil Rights Movement .
The song has gained in popularity and critical  acclaim in the दशकों चूंकि इसके रिलीज , और is # 12 on  Rolling Stone 's 500 Greatest Songs of All Time .
Steam rising from the Nesjavellir Geothermal  शक्ति स्टेशन in आइसलैंड  .
Geothermal energy is thermal energy generated and  भंडारित in the धरती  .
Thermal energy is the  उर्जा कि determines  the temperature of matter .
The Geothermal energy of the Earth 's crust originates from the  असली गठन of the ग्रह ( 20 % )  and from radioactive decay of minerals ( 80 % ) .
The geothermal gradient ,  जिससे is the अंतर in तापमान between the कोर of the ग्रह और  its surface , drives a continuous conduction of thermal energy in the form of heat from the core to the surface .
The adjective geothermal originates  इससे the यूनानी जड़ें γη ( ge ) , अर्थ धरती , और θερμος  ( thermos ) , meaning hot .
At the core of the Earth , thermal energy is created by radioactive decay and temperatures  may पहुँचें over 5000 °c ( 9,000 °f  ) .
Heat conducts from the core to surrounding  कूलर चट्टान  .
The high temperature and pressure cause some rock to melt , creating magma convection upward since  it is हल्का than the ठोस  rock .
The magma  heats चट्टान और जल in the  crust , sometimes up to 370 °C ( 700 °F ) .
From hot springs , geothermal energy has  महरूम प्रयुक्त लिये स्नान चूंकि paleolithic टाइम्स और लिये स्पेस  heating since ancient Roman times , but it is now better known for electricity generation .
Worldwide , about 10,715  megawatts ( mw ) of geothermal  power is online in 24 countries .
An additional 28 gigawatts of direct geothermal heating capacity is installed  लिये ज़िला हीटिंग , स्पेस हीटिंग , स्पा  , industrial processes , desalination and agricultural applications .
Geothermal power  is लागत प्रभावी , विश्वसनीय , चिरस्थायी  , and environmentally friendly , but has historically been limited to areas near tectonic plate boundaries .
Recent technological advances have dramatically expanded  the दायरा और आकार of सुगठित संसाधन , विशेषकर लिये अनुप्रयोग ऐसे as घर हीटिंग  , opening a potential for widespread exploitation .
Geothermal wells release greenhouse gases trapped deep within the earth , but these emissions  हैं much निम्नतर प्रति उर्जा ईकाई than those of  fossil fuels .
As a result , geothermal  शक्ति रै the संभावित to सहायता mitigate वैश्विक  warming if widely deployed in place of fossil fuels .
The Earth 's geothermal resources  हैं theoretically अधिक than पर्याप्त to सप्लाई  humanity 's energy needs , but only a very small fraction may be profitably exploited .
Drilling and exploration for  गहन संसाधन is बहुत महंगी  .
Forecasts for the future of geothermal power depend  on assumptions परिचय प्रौद्योगिकी , उर्जा  prices , subsidies , and interest rates .
Pilot programs like EWEB 's customer opt in Green  शक्ति कार्यक्रम दिखाएँ कि ग्राहक होता be willing  to pay a little more for a renewable energy source like geothermal .
But  as a परिणाम of सरकारी assisted शोध  and industry experience , the cost of generating geothermal power has decreased by 25 % over the past two decades .
In 2001 ,  geothermal उर्जा लागत between  two and ten cents per kwh .
Ownership of property may be private , collective , or common and  the प्रॉपर्टी may be वस्तुएँ , land/real एस्टेट  , or intellectual property .
Determining ownership in law involves determining who  रै निश्चित अधिकारों और कर्तव्य over  the property .
These rights and duties , sometimes called a  'bundle of अधिकारों ' , can be अलग और आयोजित by अलग पार्टियों  .
The question of ownership  पहुँच वापस to the प्राचीन दार्शनिकों  , Plato and Aristotle , who held different opinions on the subject .
Plato ( 428/427 BC – 348/347 BC ) thought private property created  divisive inequalities , जबकि अरस्तू ( 384 bc – 322 bc ) विचार निजी प्रॉपर्टी सक्रिय लोगों  to receive the full benefit of their labor .
Private property can circumvent what is now referred to as the “ tragedy of  the कॉमन्स ” प्रॉब्लम , जहाँ लोगों tend to रुसवा आम प्रॉपर्टी  more than they do private property .
Given a short-sighted owner , however , a  निजी प्रॉपर्टी प्रणाली can मेक ये tragedies worse—for उदाहरण , a निजी मालिक of a टुकड़ा of oil-rich प्रॉपर्टी , depending on उसके worldview  , might be more interested in short-term financial gain than incremental use with an eye toward other 's concerns ( e.g. , those of future generations , the disenfranchised , etc . ) .
While Aristotle justified  the अस्तित्व of निजी स्वामित्व , he बाएँ खोलें सवाल of ( 1 ) कैसा to allocate  property between what is private and common and ( 2 ) how to allocate the private property within society .
over the सहस्राब्दियों , और आरपार  cultures what can be property and how it is regarded culturally have varied widely .
Ownership is the basis for many other concepts that form the foundations of ancient and modern  समाजों ऐसे as धन , व्यापार , कर्ज़ , दिवालियापन , the criminality  of theft , and private vs. public property .
Ownership is the key  भवन ब्लाक in the विकास  of the capitalist socio-economic system .
आदम स्मिथ stated कि एक of the  sacred laws of justice was to guard a person 's property and possessions .
The process and  यांत्रिकी of स्वामित्व हैं fairly जटिल : एक can लाभ  , transfer and lose ownership of property in a number of ways .
To acquire property one can purchase it with money , trade it  लिये अन्य प्रॉपर्टी , प्राप्त it as a  gift , steal it , find it , make , it or homestead it .
One can transfer or lose ownership of property by selling it for money , exchanging it for other property , giving it as a gift , being robbed of it , it , or having it  stripped  from one 's ownership through legal means such as eviction , foreclosure , seizure , or taking .
Ownership is  self-propagating in कि the मालिक of कोई  property will also own the economic benefits of that property .
``  कया 's my नाम ? '' is a सोंग  recorded by Barbadian recording artist Rihanna , for her fifth studio album Loud ( 2010 ) .
Featuring guest vocals from Canadian rapper Drake , the song was released as the second single  इससे लाउड on अक्तूबर 29 , 2010 through डेफ jam रिकार्डिंग  .
The R & B song was produced by the Norwegian production duo StarGate , and was written by the  duo साथ साथ ester डीन , traci hale  , and Drake .
lyrically , it incorporates  themes of sexual intercourse and romance .
म्यूज़िक आलोचकों दिया the सोंग धनात्मक समीक्षाएँ , citing  it some of Rihanna 's best vocal work to date ; there was a praise regarding its romantic nature , as well as its sexual tones .
`` What 's My Name ? '' was a commercial success and topped the US  बिलबोर्ड hot 100 चार्ट , giving रिहाना उसके तीसरा number-one सिंगल in 2010  , as well as her eighth overall on the chart .
The song also  अव्वल the चार्ट in हंगेरियाई और the संयुक्त  Kingdom and reached the top five in Canada , Ireland , New Zealand , Norway and Slovakia .
The song received a nomination at  the 54th ग्रैमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन rap/sung  Collaboration .
An accompanying music video , directed by Philip Andelman , portrays a  रोमांटिक एनकाउंटर between रिहाना और ड्रेक in a किराना स्टोर साथ साथ रोमांटिक दृश्यों between the जोड़ी और रिहाना  walking through Manhattan 's Lower East Side .
`` What 's My Name ? '' was promoted with live performances across both sides of the Atlantic , including Saturday Night Live  in अमेरिका और the श्रेणी सात finale of the x फ़ैक्टर in the संयुक्त  Kingdom .
The latter performance resulted in an investigation  इससे the देश 's मीडिया नियामक ,  Ofcom , for the raunchy nature of Rihanna 's outfit .
a गणितीय निरंतर is a खास  number , usually a real number , that is `` significantly interesting in some way '' .
Constants arise in many different areas of mathematics , with constants such as e ( mathematical constant ) | and pi| occurring in such diverse contexts as  भूगोल  , number theory and calculus .
What it means for a constant to arise `` naturally '' , and what makes a constant  `` दिलचस्प '' , is ultimately a पदार्थ of स्वाद , और कुछ गणितीय स्थिरांक  are notable more for historical reasons than for their intrinsic mathematical interest .
The more popular constants have been studied  throughout the आयु और computed  to many decimal places .
All mathematical  स्थिरांक हैं definable संख्याएँ और प्रायः हैं भी computable  numbers ( Chaitin 's constant being a significant exception ) .
Elections to the United States Senate were held on November 2 , 2010 , for 37  of the संयुक्त राज्य  Senate 's 100 seats .
( A special election on January 19 , 2010 in  मैसाचुसेट्स थी आयोजित पहले in the साल  . )
Thirty-four  of the सीटे यहूद लिये six-year  terms to the Senate 's `` class three '' , and three were special elections for shorter terms .
Of the 37 elections , 19 featured incumbent Democrats ( 7 of whom retired or were defeated in the primary ) and 18 featured  लाज़िम republicans ( आठ of जिसको रिटायर्ड or यहूद पराजित in the  primary ) .
After the previous elections ( in  2008 ) , the संयुक्त राज्य सीनेट थी रचित of 58 डेमोक्रेट  , 40 Republicans , and 2 independents who caucus with the Democrats .
Republicans won four  सीटे आयोजित by retiring डेमोक्रेट  and Republicans defeated two incumbent Democrats .
This was the largest number of Republicans gains since the 1994 elections and also the first time since that  चुनाव कि republicans सफलतापूर्वक defended सब  of their own seats .
This was the fourth consecutive  चुनाव of `` क्लास 3 '' सीनेटरों जहाँ डेमोक्रेट have विफल to लाभ  seats and the third consecutive mid-term election held in a president 's first term where Republicans have picked-up seats .
Despite these Republican wins , however , the Democrats retained a majority of the Senate with 51 seats  प्लस 2 independents जो caucus साथ उन्हें , compared  to the 47 Republicans .
A solstice is an astronomical event that occurs twice each year as the Sun reaches its  उच्चतम or न्यूनतम excursion सापेक्ष to  the celestial equator on the celestial sphere .
As a result , on the  दिन of the संक्रांति , the सूर्य appears to have पहुँचे इसके उच्चतम or न्यूनतम सालाना ऊँचाई  in the sky above the horizon at local solar noon .
The word solstice is derived from the  लैटिन सोल ( सूर्य ) और sistere ( to स्टैंड स्टिल ) , क्युकी at the solstices  , the Sun stands still in declination ; that is , the seasonal movement of the Sun 's path ( as seen from Earth ) comes to a stop before reversing direction .
The solstices  , साथ  with the equinoxes , are connected with the seasons .
In many cultures the solstices mark  either the शुरूआत  or the midpoint of winter and summer .
The term solstice can also be used in a broader sense ,  as the तिथि ( दिन ) जब इस occurs  .
The day of the solstice is either the  longest दिन of the साल ( in गर्मियाँ )  or the shortest day of the year ( in winter ) for any place outside of the tropics .
Jerry Lee Lewis ( born September 29 , 1935 ) is an  अमरीकी चट्टान और फेंकें और देश म्यूज़िक singer-songwriter  and pianist .
He is known  by the उपनाम `` the कातिल '' और is प्रायः viewed  as “rock & roll 's first great wild man” .
An early  पायोनियर of चट्टान और फेंकें  music , in 1956 Lewis made his first recordings at Sun Records .
`` Crazy Arms `` sold 300,000 copies in the South , but it was his 1957 hit `` Whole Lotta  shakin ' going on `` कि शॉट लुईस to कीर्ति विश्वव्यापी .
Lewis followed this in that same year when he recorded songs such as ``  ग्रेट गेंदें of आग `` , `` breathless `` और `` ऊँची स्कूल गोपनीय  `` .
Lewis sold more records than Elvis  प्रेस्ली at इस समय .
However , Lewis ' rock 'n '  फेंकें करियर faltered in the वेक of  his marriage to his young cousin .
he था छोटी कामयाबी in the चार्ट following  the scandal and his popularity quickly faded .
His live performance fees plummeted from  $ 10,000 प्रति  night to $ 250 .
In the  meantime he थी संकल्पित  to gain back some of his popularity .
During the early 60’s he did  n't have much चार्ट कामयाबी साथ few अपवाद  such as `` What 'd I Say `` .
उसके सजीव प्रदर्शन at इस  time were increasingly wild and energetic .
His album Live at the Star Club , Hamburg  इससे 1964 is प्रायः regarded by अनेक  music journalists and fans as one of the wildest and greatest rock and roll concert albums ever .
After recording songs such as `` I 'm on Fire '' for several years  साथ छोटी कामयाबी , in 1968 लुईस बना a परिवर्तन  into country music and had hits with songs such as `` Another Place , Another Time '' .
This  reignited उसके करियर और throughout the लेट '60s  and '70s he regularly topped the country-western charts .
His # 1 country hits  शामिल `` to मेक प्रेम मीठी लिये तुम `` , `` वहीँ जरूर be  More to Love Than This `` , `` Would You Take Another Chance on Me `` and `` Me And Bobby McGee `` .
Lewis 's successes continued throughout the decade and he  embraced उसके चट्टान 'n ' फेंकें पास्ट साथ गीतों ऐसे as a कवर of the बिग bopper 's ``  Chantilly Lace `` and `` Rockin ' My Life Away `` .
In the 21st century Lewis continues to  दौरे to ऑडियंस around the संसार और  still releases new albums .
One such album , titled Last Man Standing , is  उसके बेहतरीन selling to तिथि at over a लाख  copies sold worldwide .
This was followed by  औसत बूढ़ा man जिससे रै  received some of the best sales of Lewis’s career .
Lewis has had a dozen gold records in both rock and country ,  जीती अनेक ग्रैमी  awards , including a Lifetime Achievement Award .
Lewis was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 1986 ,  और उसके pioneering योगदान to the विधा रै  been recognized by the Rockabilly Hall of Fame .
In  1989 , उसके जीवन थी chronicled in  the movie Great Balls of Fire , starring Dennis Quaid .
In 2003 ,  रोलिंग स्टोन पत्रिका सूचीबद्ध उसके बक्सा नियत सब कातिल , no फिलर  : The Anthology number 242 on their list of `` 500 greatest albums of all time `` .
In 2004 , they ranked him number 24 on their list of the 100  महानतम कलाकारों of सब  Time .
Lewis is the last surviving member of Sun Records ' Million Dollar  quartet और the क्लास of '55 एल्बम , जिससे भी शामिल जॉनी नकदी , कार्ल  Perkins , Roy Orbison and Elvis Presley .
Henry Louis Stephens ,  बेनाम watercolor ( 1863 ) of a man पढना a समाचारपत्र साथ  headline `` Presidential Proclamation / Slavery '' .
The Emancipation Proclamation was an order issued to all segments of the Executive branch  ( सहित the फौज और नेवी ) of the संयुक्त राज्य by अध्यक्ष अब्राहम lincoln  on January 1 , 1863 , during the American Civil War .
It was based on the president 's  संवैधानिक प्राधिकार as कमांडर in मुख्य of the हथियारबंद  forces ; it was not a law passed by Congress .
It proclaimed all those enslaved in Confederate territory to be forever free , and ordered the Army ( and all segments of  the कार्यपालिका शाखा ) to दावत as फ़्री सब those enslaved in टेन  states that were still in rebellion , thus applying to 3.1 million of the 4 million slaves in the U.S .
The Proclamation could not be enforced in areas still under rebellion , but as  the फौज took कंट्रोल of confederate regions , the स्लेव in those  regions were emancipated rather than returned to their masters .
From 20,000 to 50,000 former slaves in regions where rebellion had  already महरूम subdued यहूद तत्काल emancipated  , and over 3 million more were emancipated as the Union army advanced .
The Proclamation did not apply to the five slave states that were not in rebellion , nor to most regions already controlled by the Union army ; emancipation there would come after separate  राज्य क्रियाएँ and/or the दिसम्बर 1865 अनुसमर्थन of the तेरहवीं amendment , जिससे बना गुलामी illegal everywhere  in the U.S .
the उदघोषणा किया नहीं compensate the स्वामी  , did not itself outlaw slavery , and did not make the ex-slaves ( called freedmen ) citizens .
It made the eradication of slavery  an सुस्पष्ट युद्ध लक्ष्य , in जोड  to the goal of reuniting the Union .
On September 22 , 1862 , Lincoln had issued a preliminary proclamation that he would order the emancipation of all slaves in any state of the  confederate राज्य of अमेरिका कि किया नहीं वापसी to संघ कंट्रोल  by January 1 , 1863 .
None returned , and the order , signed and issued January 1 , 1863 , took effect  मगर in स्थितियाँ जहाँ the संघ था  already mostly regained control .
The Proclamation outraged white Southerners who envisioned a race war , angered some Northern Democrats ,  सक्रिय anti-slavery शक्तियां , और weakened शक्तियां in यूरोपीय कि चाही to intervene to सहायता the confederacy  .
It also  lifted the आत्माओं of अफ़्रीकी अमेरिकी दोनो in the दक्षिणी और उत्तरी राज्य , और  led to many slaves escaping their masters and running behind Union lines in order to have their emancipation enforced .
Sucker Punch is a 2011 American fantasy action film directed by Zack  स्नाइडर और co-written by उसे  and Steve Shibuya .
It  is स्नाइडर 's पहला  film based on an original script .
The film stars Emily Browning , Abbie Cornish ,  जेना malone , वैनेसा  Hudgens , Jamie Chung , and Carla Gugino .
The storyline follows the fantasies of a young woman who is committed to a mental institution  , as वो makes a योजना to एस्केप the हॉस्पिटल पहले कष्ट  a lobotomy .
The film was released  in दोनो conventional और imax थिएटर  in the United States at midnight on March 25 , 2011 .
It received generally  ऋणात्मक समीक्षाएँ इससे आलोचकों ,  but was a moderate box office success .
Front and back of Canon PowerShot A95 , a typical  pocket-size डिजिटल  camera
Haselblad 503CW with Ixpress V96C digital back , an example  of a पेशेवर डिजिटल  camera system
A digital camera ( or digicam ) is a  कैमरा कि takes वीडियो or स्टिल छायाचित्र by  recording images on an electronic image sensor .
Most cameras sold today are digital , and  डिजिटल कैमरे हैं incorporated into अनेक डिवाइस ranging  from PDAs and mobile phones ( called camera phones ) to vehicles .
Digital and film cameras share an optical system ,  typically using a लेंस साथ a परिवर्तनीय diaphragm  to focus light onto an image pickup device .
The  diaphragm और शटर admit the सही राशि  of light to the imager , just as with film but the image pickup device is electronic rather than chemical .
However , unlike film cameras , digital cameras can display images on a screen immediately after  होने अंकित , और स्टोर  and delete images from memory .
Many digital cameras can also  रिकार्ड चलती वीडियो साथ ध्वनि  .
Some digital cameras can crop and  सिलाई तस्वीरें और perform  other elementary image editing .
The inside and front of a Dell  poweredge वेब सर्वर , a कंप्यूटर designed  for rack mounting
Multiple web servers may be used for a high  ट्रैफ़िक जालस्थल , यहाँ चार सूर्य आग x4200 सर्वर हैं  installed together
Web server can refer to either the hardware ( the computer ) or the software ( the computer application  ) कि helps to उद्धार वेब सामग्री कि can be पहुँचा through the अंतरजाल  .
The most common use of web servers is to host websites , but there are  अन्य उपयोग ऐसे as गेमिंग , आंकड़ा भंडार or कार्यशील  enterprise applications .
The American Red Cross ( ARC ) , also known as the American National Red  क्रॉस , is a humanitarian संगठन कि provides आपात  assistance , disaster relief and education inside the United States .
It is the designated U.S. affiliate of the International Federation of Red Cross and  रेड crescent समाजों .
Today , in addition to domestic disaster relief , the American Red Cross offers services in five other areas : community  सेवाएं कि सहायता the मोहताज ; संचार सेवाएं और सुकून लिये सैन्य सदस्यों और उनके परिवार सदस्यों ; the संग्रहण , प्रसंस्करण और  distribution of blood and blood products ; educational programs on preparedness , health , and safety ; and international relief and development programs .
Issued a corporate charter by the United States Congress under Title 36 of the United States Code , Section 3001 , the American National Red Cross is governed by volunteers and supported by  जातियाँ दान , आय इससे स्वास्थ्य और सुरक्षा प्रशिक्षण और उत्पाद , और आय इससे रक्त उत्पाद .
The American Red Cross  is headquartered in वॉशिंगटन  , D.C .
The Chairman of the Board of Governors ,  सेवारत उसके दूसरी three-year पद , is bonnie mcelveen-hunter  .
The current President and Chief  कार्यपालिका अधिकारी is गेल  J. McGovern .
A  मुर्गा in कोसोवो
A rooster , showing wattles  , earlobes और कंघी
A  मुर्गा crowing (  with audio )
सही
A rooster ( also called a cockerel or cock ) is a  पुरूष gallinaceous बर्ड  .
It  प्रायः refers to a पुरूष  chicken ( Gallus gallus ) .
Immature male chickens less  than एक साल बूढ़ा हैं पुकारा cockerels  .
The term `` rooster '' originates in the United States , and the term is widely used  throughout उत्तर अमेरिका , as खूब as ऑस्ट्रेलिया  and New Zealand .
In the United Kingdom and Ireland the  पुरानी पद `` cockerel '' is अधिक commonly  used .
`` Cock '' is in general use as the  नाम लिये a पुरूष of अन्य प्रजाति  of bird , for example `` Cock sparrow '' .
`` Roosting '' is the action of perching  aloft to नींद at रात्रि  , and is done by both sexes .
The rooster is polygamous , but  can नहीं गार्ड अनेक nests  of eggs at once .
He guards the general area where his hens are nesting ,  और होगा आक्रमण अन्य roosters कि  enter his territory .
During the daytime , he usually sits on a high perch , usually 3–5 feet  बंद the मैदान to serve as a lookout लिये उसके झुण्ड  .
He  होगा ध्वनि a distinctive  alarm call if predators are nearby .
The Pokémon Trading Card Game ( Pokémon TCG ) is a collectible card game based on the Pokémon video game  श्रेणी , पहला प्रकाशित in अक्तूबर 1996 by  Media Factory in Japan .
In the US  , it थी initially प्रकाशित by wizards  of the Coast , the company that produces , in December 1998 .
Nintendo  took over प्रकाशन  in June 2003 .
It  is एक of निन्टेंडो 's पिछला  remaining strong links to its heritage as a playing card company .
Land Rover is a British car manufacturer with its headquarters in Gaydon , Warwickshire ,  संयुक्त किंगडम जिससे specialises in four-wheel-drive  vehicles .
It is part of the Jaguar Land Rover group , a  subsidiary of tata मोटर्स of  India .
it is the दूसरी oldest four-wheel-drive  car brand in the world ( after Jeep ) .
The Land Rover name  थी originally प्रयुक्त by the रोवर कम्पनी लिये  one specific vehicle model , named simply the Land Rover , launched by Rover in 1948 .
Over the following years it developed  into a marque encompassing a दायरा of four-wheel-drive मॉडल , सहित  the Defender , Discovery , Freelander , Range Rover , Range Rover Sport and Range Rover Evoque .
Land Rovers  हैं फिलहाल समवेत in the कम्पनी 's halewood और solihull पौधे , साथ  research and development taking place at JLR 's Gaydon and Whitley engineering centres .
Land Rover sold  194,000 वाहनों विश्वव्यापी  in 2009 .
Although the brand originates from the original 1948 model , Land  रोवर as a कम्पनी रै तभी existed चूंकि 1978  .
Prior to this , it was a product line of the Rover Company which was subsequently  अवशोषित into the rover-triumph प्रभाग of the अंग्रेजों  Leyland Motor Corporation ( BL ) following Leyland Motor Corporation ’s takeover of Rover in 1967 .
The ongoing commercial success of the original Land Rover series models , and latterly  the दायरा रोवर in the 1970s in the midst of bl’s खूब प्रलेखित कारोबार परेशानियों prompted the स्थापना  of a separate Land Rover company but still under the BL umbrella , remaining part of the subsequent Rover Group in 1988 , under the ownership of British Aerospace after the remains of British Leyland were broken up and privatised .
In  1994 रोवर समूह  plc was acquired by BMW .
In 2000 , Rover Group was broken-up by BMW and Land Rover was sold  to घाट मोटर कम्पनी , बनने  part of its Premier Automotive Group .
In 2006 Ford  खरीदा the रोवर ब्रांड इससे bmw लिये  around £6 million .
This reunited the Rover and Land Rover brands for the first time since 2000  जब the रोवर समूह  was broken up by BMW .
In June 2008 , Ford sold both Land  रोवर और जैगुआर गाड़ियाँ  to Tata Motors .
This sale  भी शामिल the dormant  Rover brand
The cover of the  पहला dvd संकलन released  by Aniplex of The New Captain Shūsuke Amagai arc
The ninth  ऋतु of the ब्लीच  anime series is named .
The  श्रेणी is आधारित  on Tite Kubo 's manga with same name .
The episodes are directed  by noriyuki abe और  produced by TV Tokyo , Dentsu , and Studio Pierrot .
The episodes ' plot focuses on the introduction of a new Soul Reaper captain , Shūsuke Amagai ,  और the रहस्य surrounding the kasumiōji गोत्र  , one of the families that constitute the nobility of Soul Society .
The season began airing on  अप्रैल 23 , 2008 in जापानी on tv टोकियो और ended  on October 7 , 2008 .
The English adaptation of the Bleach anime is  licensed by viz मीडिया , और इस चाप began airing on अगस्त 28 ,  2010 on Cartoon Network 's Adult Swim , and finished on January 29 , 2011 .
Five DVD compilations , each containing four episodes of the season , have been released by Aniplex ;  the पहला dvd संकलन थी released  on November 26 , 2008 and the fifth on March 25 , 2009 .
A DVD box will be  प्रकाशित by viz मीडिया on दिसम्बर  13 , 2011 .
The episodes use three pieces of theme music : one  खोलने थीम और दो closing  themes .
The opening theme is ``  chu-bura `` by kelun  .
The first closing theme is `` Orange '' by  lil'b , प्रयुक्त लिये एपीसोड 168 to 179 , और the दूसरी closing  theme is `` Gallop '' by pe'zmoku , used for the remainder of the episodes .
The regulation of prostitution in the United States is not among the enumerated powers of the federal government ; Under the Tenth Amendment to the United States  संविधान , it is इसलिए exclusively the डोमेन of the राज्य to परमिट , prohibit , or वरना विनियमित वाणिज्यिक sex , मगर  insofar as Congress may regulate it as part of interstate commerce with laws like the Mann Act .
In most states , prostitution is considered a  misdemeanor in the श्रेणी of पब्लिक  order crime , a crime that disrupts the order of a community .
it थी at एक समय  considered to be a vagrancy crime .
Currently , Nevada is the only state to allow brothel  वेश्यावृति , the शर्तें of जिससे हैं stipulated in the नेवाडा  Revised Statutes .
Only 8  काउंटी फिलहाल contain क्रियाशील  brothels .
All forms of prostitution are illegal in Clark County ( which contains the Las  vegas–paradise महानगर क्षेत्रफल ) , washoe काउंटी ( जिससे contains रेनो ) , कार्सन नगर  , Douglas County , and Lincoln County .
The other counties theoretically allow brothel prostitution ,  लकिन कुछ of ये काउंटी  currently have no active brothels .
Street prostitution , `` pandering , '' and   living off of the proceeds of a prostitute remain illegal under Nevada law , as elsewhere in the country .
As with other countries , prostitution in the United States can be divided into three broad categories : street  वेश्यावृति , वेश्यालय वेश्यावृति , और अनुरक्षण  prostitution .
The East Coast of the United States , also known as the Eastern Seaboard or the Atlantic  seaboard और commonly shortened to ईस्ट coast , refers to the  easternmost coast of the United States along the Atlantic Ocean .
The states which have shoreline on the East Coast  हैं , इससे उत्तर to दक्षिण , the u.S. राज्य of maine , नई हैम्पशायर , मैसाचुसेट्स , rhode द्वीप , कनेक्टिकट , नई  York , New Jersey , Delaware , Maryland , Virginia , North Carolina , South Carolina , Georgia , and Florida .
Richard Milhous Nixon ( January 9 , 1913 – April 22 , 1994 ) was  the 37th अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य , सेवारत इससे 1969 to  1974 , when he became the only president to resign the office .
Nixon had previously served as a Republican U.S. representative and senator from  कैलिफ़ोर्निया और as the 36th वाइस अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य  from 1953 to 1961 .
निक्सन थी born  in Yorba Linda , California .
He graduated from Whittier College in 1934 and Duke University  स्कूल of विधि in 1937 , returning to कैलिफ़ोर्निया  to practice law .
He and his  बीवी , पैट निक्सन ,  moved to Washington to work for the federal government in 1942 .
He subsequently served in the  संयुक्त राज्य नेवी दौरान संसार  War II .
Nixon was elected in  कैलिफ़ोर्निया to the हाउस of प्रतिनिधि  in 1946 and to the Senate in 1950 .
His pursuit of the Alger Hiss case  स्थापित उसके प्रतिष्ठा as a अग्रणी anti-communist  , and elevated him to national prominence .
He was the  कार्यशील mate of ड्वाइट D. आइज़नहावर , the रिपब्लिकन  Party presidential nominee in the 1952 election .
निक्सन परोसा लिये आठ  years as vice president .
He waged an unsuccessful presidential campaign in 1960 , narrowly losing to John F. Kennedy ,  और खोया a रेस लिये राज्यपाल of कैलिफ़ोर्निया in 1962  .
In 1968 , he ran again for  the प्रेसिडेंसी  and was elected .
Although Nixon initially escalated America 's  भागीदारी in the वियतनाम युद्ध , he subsequently ended  U.S. involvement in 1973 .
Nixon 's visit to the People 's Republic of China in 1972  खोली राजनयिक संबंध between the दो  nations , and he initiated détente and the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty with the Soviet Union the same year .
Domestically , his  प्रशासन generally embraced नीतियों कि  transferred power from Washington to the states .
Among other things , he launched initiatives to fight cancer and illegal drugs , imposed wage and price controls , enforced  desegregation of कुछ दक्षिणी स्कूलों , और स्थापित the पर्यावरणीय  Protection Agency .
Though he presided over the  चंद्र अवतरण शुरूआत साथ अपोलो 11 , he scaled वापस मानवयुक्त  space exploration .
He was  re-elected  by a landslide in 1972 .
Nixon 's second term saw an Arab oil embargo , the resignation of his vice president , Spiro Agnew , and a continuing series of  खुलासे परिचय the वाटरगेट कांड और अन्य misconduct by सदस्यों  of the administration .
The scandal escalated , costing Nixon much of his political support , and on  अगस्त 9 , 1974 , he resigned in the फेस of लगभग निश्चित महाभियोग  and removal from office .
After his resignation  , he controversially प्राप्त  a pardon issued by his successor , Gerald Ford .
In retirement , Nixon 's work as an  elder statesman , authoring अनेक किताबे और undertaking अनेक विदेशी  trips , helped to rehabilitate his public image .
He suffered a debilitating  स्ट्रोक on अप्रैल 18 , 1994 , और died  four days later at the age of 81 .
Sertraline hydrochloride ( trade names Zoloft , Lustral  ) is an antidepressant of the चयनात्मक serotonin reuptake inhibitor  ( SSRI ) class .
It was  introduced to the  market by Pfizer in 1991 .
Sertraline is primarily prescribed for major depressive disorder in adult outpatients as well as  obsessive–compulsive , दहशत , और सोशल चिंता विकार in दोनो वयस्कों और children .
In 2011 , it was the second-most prescribed antidepressant on the U.S. retail  मार्केट , साथ 37,208,000 prescriptions  .
the efficacy of sertraline लिये अवसाद  is similar to that of older tricyclic antidepressants , but its side effects are much less pronounced .
Differences with newer  antidepressants हैं subtler  and also mostly confined to side effects .
Evidence suggests that  sertraline may कार्य बेहतर than fluoxetine ( prozac )  for some subtypes of depression .
Treatment of panic disorder with sertraline results in  a significant घटी of the क्रमांक of दहशत  attacks and in improved quality of life .
For obsessive-compulsive disorder , sertraline is not as effective as cognitive behavioral therapy ; the best  परिणाम have महरूम हासिल by combining ये  two treatments .
Although approved for social phobia and posttraumatic stress disorder , sertraline leads to only  modest सुधार in ये शर्तें  .
sertraline भी alleviates the लक्षण of premenstrual  dysphoric disorder and can be used in sub-therapeutic doses or intermittently for its treatment .
Sertraline shares the common side effects and contraindications of other SSRIs , with high rates of nausea , diarrhea , insomnia , and sexual side effects ; however , it does  नहीं कारण वज़न लाभ , और इसके प्रभाव on दोनो संज्ञान और सतर्कता  are relatively mild .
In pregnant women taking sertraline , the drug was present in significant  एकाग्रता in fetal रक्त , और थी भी संबद्ध साथ a उच्चतर रेट of विभिन्न  birth defects .
Similarly to other  antidepressants , the उपयोग of sertraline लिये अवसाद may  be associated with a higher rate of suicidality .
The Five Heartbeats is a 1991 musical drama film directed by Robert Townsend , who  co-wrote the स्क्रिप्ट साथ keenan  Ivory Wayans .
Distributed by 20th Century Fox ,  the फिल्मी 's प्रमुख डाल शामिल टाउनसेंड , माइकल राइट , लिओन रॉबिन्सन , हैरी  J. Lennix , Tico Wells , Harold Nicholas of the Nicholas Brothers , and Diahann Carroll .
The plot of  the फिल्मी ( जिससे is loosely आधारित on the जीवनदान of अनेक कलाकारों : the dells ,  The Temptations , Four Tops , Wilson Pickett , James Brown , Frankie Lymon , Sam Cooke and others ) follows the three decade career of the R & B vocal group The Five Heartbeats .
The film depicts the rise and fall of a Motown inspired soul act through the eyes of the film 's main protagonist ,  डोनाल्ड `` बतख '' matthews ( portrayed by टाउनसेंड ) , जो serves  as a narrator throughout the film .
However , a  बहुमत of the सिनेमा is प्रस्तुत in a लगातार समय लकीर  as opposed to traditional flash backs .
The film  शामिल a significant राशि of असली म्यूज़िक conceived by विभिन्न कलाकारों लिये the  film 's soundtrack , including singles such as `` A Heart Is a House for Love `` , `` We Have n't Finished Yet '' , and `` Nothing But Love '' .
The film was released to most North American audiences March 29 , 1991 however  it थी नहीं बना उपलब्धियाँ to ऑडियंस in अन्य महाद्वीपों  until 2002 when a DVD was released prior to another DVD release in 2006 for the film 's 15th anniversary .
The movie received mixed  समीक्षाएँ इससे  critics .
Secretariat ( March 30 , 1970 – October 4 , 1989  ) थी an अमरीकी thoroughbred racehorse कि in 1973 became the  first U.S . Triple Crown champion in 25 years .
He set  रेस रिकॉर्ड in सब तीन कार्यक्रम in the श्रेणी — the केंटकी डर्बी  ( 1:59.4 ) , the Preakness Stakes ( 1:53 ) , and the Belmont Stakes ( 2:24 ) — records that still stand today .
He is  माना to be एक of the महानतम  Thoroughbreds of all time .
In 1999 , ESPN ranked Secretariat the 35th best athlete of the 20th  सदी , the उच्चतम रैंकिंग racehorse  on the list URL_http .
He ranked second behind Man  o ' युद्ध in the blood-horse 's सूची of the शीर्ष 100 u.S. racehorses  of the 20th Century .
सचिवालय थी sired  by Bold Ruler out of Somethingroyal , by Princequillo .
He was  foaled at the मर्ग  in Caroline County , Virginia .
Like his famous predecessor Man o ' War , Secretariat was  a विशाल शाहबलूत टट्टू और थी दिए the वही उपनाम , `` बिग रेड  . ''
Secretariat 's grandsire ,  nasrullah , is भी the great-great-grandsire  of 1977 Triple Crown winner Seattle Slew .
Owned by Penny Chenery , he was trained by Lucien Laurin and mainly ridden by Canadian jockey Ron Turcotte , along with apprentice  jockey पॉल फेलिसियानो ( पहला दो दौड़ ) , और दिग्गज एडी मेपल ( पिछला  race ) .
He raced in Chenery 's Meadow  stable 's ब्लू और श्वेत  checkered colors and his groom was Eddie Sweat .
सचिवालय stood लगभग लम्बा , और  weighed , with a 75-inch girth , in his racing prime .
A typical 12 V  , 40 ah lead-acid  car battery
An automotive battery is a type of rechargeable battery that  आपूर्तियाँ इलेक्ट्रिक उर्जा to an ऑटोमोबाइल  .
Usually this refers to an SLI battery ( starting ,  lighting , प्रज्वलन ) to शक्ति the प्रारंभ मोटर , the  lights , and the ignition system of a vehicle’s engine .
ऑटोमोटिव sli बैटरी हैं प्रायः lead-acid प्रकार  , and are made of six galvanic cells in series to provide a 12 volt system .
Each cell provides 2.1  volts लिये a कुल of  12.6 volt at full charge .
Heavy vehicles such as highway trucks or tractors  , प्रायः equipped साथ डीज़ल इंजन  , may have two batteries in series for a 24 volt system , or may have parallel strings of batteries .
Lead-acid batteries are made up  of प्लेटों of सीसे और पृथक प्लेटों of सीसे डाइऑक्साइड , जिससे हैं submerged  into an electrolyte solution of about 38 % sulfuric acid and 62 % water .
This causes a  रासायनिक प्रतिक्रिया कि रिलीज electrons , allowing  them to flow through conductors to produce electricity .
As the battery discharges , the acid of the  electrolyte प्रतिक्रियाएँ साथ the सामग्री of  the plates , changing their surface to lead sulfate .
When the battery is recharged , the chemical  प्रतिक्रिया is reversed : the सीसे सल्फेट reforms  into lead dioxide and lead .
With the plates restored to their original  कंडीशन , the प्रक्रम may अभी  be repeated .
Battery recycling of automotive batteries reduces the  need लिये संसाधन जरूरी लिये manufacture of नई  batteries , diverts toxic lead from landfills , and prevents risk of improper disposal .
Full-time employment is employment in which a  व्यक्ति works a न्यूनतम  number of hours defined as such by his/her employer .
Full-time employment often comes with benefits that are not typically offered to part-time , temporary ,  or लचीली मजदूर , ऐसे as सालाना छोड़ ,  sickleave , and health insurance .
full-time कार्य हैं प्रायः  considered careers .
They  generally अदा अधिक  than part-time jobs , and usually carry more hours per week .
The Fair Labor Standards Act (  flsa ) करता नहीं define full-time नियुक्ति  or part-time employment .
This is a matter generally to be  संकल्पित by the नियोक्ता ( us  Department of Labor ) .
The definition by employer can vary and is generally published  in a कम्पनी 's कर्मचारी  Handbook .
Companies commonly require from 30–35 or 40 hours per week to be defined as full-time  और इसलिए योग्य लिये  benefits .
Full-Time status varies  between कम्पनी और is प्रायः आधारित on the शिफ़्ट  the employee must work during each work week .
The `` standard '' work week consists of five eight-hour days  , commonly  served between 9:00AM to 5:00PM totaling 40 hours .
While a  four-day सप्ताह generally consists of चार ten-hour दिनों  ; it may also consist of as little as nine hours for a total of a 36 hour work week .
Twelve-hour shifts are often  तीन दिनों प्रति सप्ताह , जबतक the कम्पनी  has the intention of paying out the employee overtime .
Overtime  is legally सशुल्क आउट anytime an कर्मचारी works  more than 40 hours per week .
The legal minimum for  ओवरटाइम starts  at Base Pay + One-Half .
The increased payout is considered to compensate slightly for the increased fatigue which a  व्यक्ति अनुभवों on  such long shifts .
Shifts can also be very  irregular , as in खुदरा , लकिन  are still full-time if the required number of hours is reached .
There are some situations where a person who needs full-time work is dropped to part-time , which is  sometimes a रूप of constructive dismissal to avoid paying बेरोजगारी लाभ  to a laid-off worker .
Seahorse is the title given to 54  प्रजाति of समुद्री मछली in  the genus Hippocampus .
`` Hippocampus '' comes from the Ancient Greek hippos meaning ``  घोड़ा '' और kampos अर्थ  `` sea monster '' .
The Controlled Substances Act ( CSA ) was enacted into law by the Congress of the United  राज्य as शीर्षक ii of the व्यापक ड्रग गाली रोकथाम  and Control Act of 1970 .
The CSA is the federal U.S.  ड्रग नीति अंतर्गत जिससे the manufacture , importation  , possession , use and distribution of certain substances is regulated .
The Act also  परोसा as the नेशनल implementing  legislation for the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs .
The legislation created five Schedules ( classifications ) ,  साथ varying योग्यता लिये  a substance to be included in each .
Two federal agencies , the Drug Enforcement Administration and the Food and Drug  प्रशासन , determine जिससे substances हैं added to or removed इससे the विभिन्न schedules , हालांकि the statute passed by कॉंग्रेस निर्मित the आरंभिक लिस्टिंग , और कॉंग्रेस रै sometimes अनुसूचित अन्य substances through विधान ऐसे as the hillory J. farias और सामन्था reid date-rape रोकथाम अधिनियम of  2000 , which placed gamma hydroxybutyrate in Schedule I . Classification decisions are required to be made on criteria including potential for abuse ( an undefined term ) , currently accepted medical use in treatment in the United States , and international treaties .
माया numerals
Maya numerals are a  vigesimal ( आधार - बीस  ) numeral system used by the Pre-Columbian Maya civilization .
The numerals are made up of three  प्रतीकों ; शून्य ( शेल आकार ) ,  one ( a dot ) and five ( a bar ) .
For example , thirteen is written as three dots in a  आड़ा पंक्ति ऊपर दो आड़ा  lines stacked above each other .
Lyndon Baines Johnson ( August 27 , 1908 – January 22 , 1973 ) , often  referred to as lbj , थी the 36th अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य ( 1963–1969 ) , a स्थिति he assumed  after his service as the 37th Vice President of the United States ( 1961–1963 ) .
He is one of only four people who  परोसा in सब चार निर्वाचित संघीय कार्यालयों of the संयुक्त राज्य :  Representative , Senator , Vice President , and President .
Johnson , a Democrat from Texas , served as a United  राज्य प्रतिनिधि इससे 1937–1949 और as a सीनेटर इससे 1949–1961 , सहित छह सालो as संयुक्त राज्य सीनेट  Majority Leader , two as Senate Minority Leader and two as Senate Majority Whip .
After  campaigning unsuccessfully  for the Democratic nomination in 1960 , Johnson was asked by John F. Kennedy to be his running mate for the 1960 presidential election .
Johnson succeeded to the presidency following the assassination of John F. Kennedy on November 22 , 1963 , completed Kennedy 's term and was  निर्वाचित अध्यक्ष in उसके अपना सही , जीतना by a विशाल हाशिया over बैरी  Goldwater in the 1964 election .
Johnson was greatly supported by the Democratic Party and as President , he was responsible for designing the  `` ग्रेट समाज `` विधान कि शामिल कानून कि  upheld civil rights , public broadcasting , Medicare , Medicaid , environmental protection , aid to education , and his `` War on Poverty . ''
जॉनसन थी प्रसिद्ध लिये उसके domineering व्यक्तित्व  and the `` Johnson treatment , '' his coercion of powerful politicians in order to advance legislation .
Meanwhile , Johnson escalated American involvement in the Vietnam War ,  इससे 16,000 अमरीकी advisors/soldiers in 1963 to 550,000 कॉम्बैट  troops in early 1968 , as American casualties soared and the peace process bogged down .
The involvement stimulated a large angry  antiwar गति आधारित विशेषकर on विश्वविद्यालयों  campuses in the U.S. and abroad .
Summer riots broke out in most major cities after 1965 , and crime rates  soared , as उसके प्रतिद्वंद्वियों उठाया  demands for `` law and order '' policies .
The Democratic Party split in multiple feuding factions  , और बाद जॉनसन किया poorly in the 1968 नई हैम्पशायर प्राथमिक  , he ended his bid for reelection .
रिपब्लिकन रिचर्ड  Nixon was elected to succeed him .
Historians argue that Johnson 's presidency marked the  शिखर of आधुनिक उदारतावाद in the संयुक्त  States after the New Deal era .
Johnson is ranked favorably by  कुछ इतिहासकारों क्युकी  of his domestic policies .
प्रोजेस्टेरोन भी ज्ञात as p4 ( pregn-4-ene-3,20-dione ) is a c-21 स्टेरॉयड हार्मोन  involved in the female menstrual cycle , pregnancy ( supports gestation ) and embryogenesis of humans and other species .
Progesterone belongs to a class of hormones  पुकारा progestogens , और is the प्रमुख naturally  occurring human progestogen .
Big  बर्ड is a समर्थक of  the children 's television show Sesame Street .
Officially  performed by caroll spinney चूंकि 1969 , he is an eight-foot  two-inch ( 249 cm ) tall bright primrose-yellow bird .
He can roller skate , ice skate ,  नृत्य , गाओ , लिखें काव्य  , draw and even ride a unicycle .
But despite this wide array of talents , he is prone to frequent misunderstandings , on one occasion even singing the alphabet as one  बिग long शब्द ( इससे the सोंग पुकारा `` abc-def-ghi , '' सुनाया `` ab-keddef-gajihkel-monop-quristuv-wixyz  '' ) , pondering what it could ever mean .
He lives in a large nest behind the 123  तिल गली brownstone और रै a टेडी भालू नामित  Radar .
Webtrends is a  निजी कम्पनी  headquartered in Portland , Oregon , United States .
It provides web , social , and mobile  analytics और अन्य तन्त्र  solutions related to marketing intelligence .
The  कम्पनी थी संस्थापित in 1993 और अभी serves अधिक than  10,000 large and small firms. < ref name='Intelligent Enterprise 2007-05-21 ' >
The Second Crusade (  1145–1149 ) थी the दूसरी प्रमुख crusade  launched from Europe .
The Second Crusade was started in  जवाब to the पतन of the काउंटी of edessa the पिछला  year to the forces of Zengi .
The county had been founded during the First  crusade ( 1096–1099 ) by baldwin  of Boulogne in 1098 .
While it was the first Crusader state to be founded , it  थी भी the पहला to  fall .
The Second Crusade was announced by Pope Eugene III , and was the first of the crusades to be led by European kings , namely Louis VII of France  और कोनराड iii of जर्मनी , साथ सहायता इससे a क्रमांक of  other European nobles .
the सेना of the दो किंग्स marched separately  across Europe .
After crossing Byzantine territory into Anatolia , both armies  यहूद separately पराजित  by the Seljuq Turks .
The main Western  ईसाई सोर्स , odo of deuil  , and Syriac Christian sources claim that the Byzantine emperor Manuel I Comnenus secretly hindered the crusaders ' progress , particularly in Anatolia where he is alleged to have deliberately ordered Turks to attack them .
Louis and Conrad and the  remnants of उनके सेना पहुँचे जेरूसलम और , in  1148 , participated in an ill-advised attack on Damascus .
The  crusade in the ईस्ट थी a विफलता लिये the crusaders  and a great victory for the Muslims .
It would ultimately have a key influence on the fall of  जेरूसलम और दे वृद्धि to the तीसरा crusade at  the end of the 12th century .
the तभी कामयाबी of the दूसरी crusade आए to  a combined force of 13,000 Flemish , Frisian , Norman , English , Scottish , and German crusaders in 1147 .
Travelling from  इंग्लैण्ड , by जलयान , to the पावन जमीन , the फौज रोका और helped the छोटी ( 7,000 ) पुर्तगाली  army in the capture of Lisbon , expelling its Moorish occupants .
Wal-Mart Stores , Inc. ( ) , branded as Walmart , is  an अमरीकी बहुराष्ट्रीय खुदरा  corporation that runs chains of large discount department stores and warehouse stores .
The company is the world 's third largest public corporation , according to the Fortune Global 500 list in 2012 , the  biggest निजी नियोक्ता in the संसार साथ over दो लाख कर्मचारी , और is  the largest retailer in the world .
Walmart  remains a family-owned कारोबार , as the कम्पनी is नियंत्रित  by the Walton family , who own a 48 percent stake in Walmart .
It is also  एक of the संसार 's सबसे  valuable companies .
The company was founded by Sam Walton in 1962 , incorporated on October 31 , 1969 ,  और सरेआम traded on the नई यॉर्क भण्डार एक्सचेंज  in 1972 .
It is  headquartered in  Bentonville , Arkansas .
Walmart is also the largest  किराना रिटेलर in the संयुक्त  States .
In 2009 , it  उत्पन्न 51 प्रतिशत of इसके us $ 258 अरब  sales in the U.S. from grocery business .
It also owns and  operates the sam 's क्लबों खुदरा warehouses  in North America .
By 1988 ,  wal-mart थी the सबसे लाभप्रद रिटेलर in the us , और  by November 1990 , it outsold K-mart .
By 1991 it outsold Sears in  खुदरा , बनाना it अमेरिका 's largest रिटेलर , a भेद  it still holds .
Walmart has 8,500  स्टोर्स in 15 देशों , अंतर्गत  55 different names .
The company operates under the Walmart name in the United States ,  सहित the 50 राज्य और प्यूर्टो रीको  .
It operates in  मैक्सिको as walmex , in the संयुक्त  Kingdom as Asda , in Japan as Seiyu , and in India as Best Price .
It has wholly owned operations  in अर्जेंटीना ,  Brazil , and Canada .
Walmart 's investments outside North America have had mixed results : its operations in the United Kingdom , South America , and  चीन हैं अत्यधिक कामयाब , whereas ventures in जर्मनी और दक्षिण कोरियाई यहूद  unsuccessful .
Robert William Gary Moore ( 4 April 1952 – 6 February 2011 ) , was a Northern Irish musician , most widely  recognised as a सिंगर और  guitarist .
In a career dating back to the 1960s , Moore played with artists including Phil Lynott  और ब्रायन downey दौरान उसके  teens , leading him to memberships with the Irish bands Skid Row and Thin Lizzy on three separate occasions .
Moore shared the stage  साथ ऐसे ब्लूज़ और चट्टान luminaries as  B.B . King , Albert King , Colosseum II , George Harrison and Greg Lake , as well as having a successful solo career .
He guested on a number of albums recorded by high profile musicians , including a cameo appearance playing  the सीसे गिटार सोलो on `` वो 's my baby `` इससे traveling wilburys  Vol . 3 .
An example of rack mounted  सर्वर
A web hosting service is a type of Internet hosting service that allows individuals and  संगठन to मेक उनके जालस्थल accessible  via the World Wide Web .
Web hosts are companies that provide  स्पेस on a सर्वर स्वामित्व or leased  for use by clients , as well as providing Internet connectivity , typically in a data center .
Web hosts can also provide data center space and connectivity to the Internet for other servers  स्तिथ in उनके आंकड़ा बीच , पुकारा colocation  , also known as Housing in Latin America or France .
The scope of web hosting  सेवाएं  varies greatly .
The most basic is web page and small-scale file  होस्टिंग , जहाँ फाइलें can be अपलोड via संचिका ट्रांसफ़र  Protocol ( FTP ) or a Web interface .
The files are usually  वितरित to the वेब `` as is '' or साथ  minimal processing .
Many Internet  सेवा प्रदाताओं ( isps  ) offer this service free to subscribers .
Individuals and organizations may also obtain Web  पेज होस्टिंग इससे वैकल्पिक सेवा  providers .
Personal web  साईट होस्टिंग is  typically free , advertisement-sponsored , or inexpensive .
Business  वेब साईट होस्टिंग प्रायः  has a higher expense depending upon the size and type of the website .
Single page  होस्टिंग is generally  sufficient for personal web pages .
A complex site calls for a more comprehensive package that provides database support  और अनुप्रयोग विकास प्लेटफ़ॉर्म ( e.g . पीएचपी , जावा , माणिक्य on  Rails , ColdFusion , or ASP.NET ) .
These facilities allow  ग्राहक to लिखें or स्थापना स्क्रिप्ट लिये अनुप्रयोग  like forums and content management .
Also , Secure Sockets  परत ( एसएसएल ) is typically  used for e-commerce .
The host may also provide an interface or control  फलक लिये मैनेजिंग the वेब सर्वर और installing स्क्रिप्ट , as खूब as अन्य मौड्यूल और  service applications like e-mail .
Some hosts specialize in certain software or services ( e.g . e-commerce ) ,  जिससे हैं commonly प्रयुक्त  by larger companies that outsource network infrastructure .
Obstetrics ( from the Latin obstare , `` to stand by '' ) is the medical specialty dealing with the care of all women 's  reproductive tracts और उनके children दौरान गर्भावस्था ( prenatal काल  ) , childbirth and the postnatal period .
Many obstetricians  हैं भी स्त्रीरोग , अर्थ  they perform in both specialties .
In the  संयुक्त राज्य , ये physicians  are commonly referred to as OB/GYNs .
The Wright brothers , Orville ( August 19 , 1871 – January 30 , 1948 ) and Wilbur ( April 16 , 1867 – May 30 , 1912 ) , were two American brothers , inventors , and aviation pioneers who were credited with inventing and building the world 's first successful  वायुयान और बनाना the पहला नियंत्रित , संचालित और sustained heavier-than-air इंसान  flight , on December 17 , 1903 .
From 1905 to 1907  , the भाइयो विकसित उनके उड़ती  machine into the first practical fixed-wing aircraft .
Although not the first to build and fly experimental aircraft  , the राइट भाइयो यहूद the पहला to इफ़तेरा वायुयान  controls that made fixed-wing powered flight possible .
The brothers '  आधारभूत भेदन थी उनके आविष्कार of three-axis  control , which enabled the pilot to steer the aircraft effectively and to maintain its equilibrium .
इस विधि became मानक और remains  standard on fixed-wing aircraft of all kinds .
From the beginning of their aeronautical work , the Wright brothers focused on developing a reliable method of pilot  कंट्रोल as the कुंजी to solving `` the  flying problem '' .
This approach differed significantly from other  experimenters of the समय जो put अधिक जोर on विकासशील  powerful engines .
Using a small homebuilt wind tunnel , the Wrights also collected more accurate data than any before , enabling  उन्हें to डिज़ाइन और निर्माण विंग्स और propellers कि यहूद अधिक कुशल  than any before .
Their first U.S. patent , 821,393 , did not claim invention of a flying machine , but rather ,  the आविष्कार of a प्रणाली of aerodynamic कंट्रोल  that manipulated a flying machine 's surfaces .
They gained the mechanical skills  अनिवार्य लिये उनके कामयाबी by working  for years in their shop with printing presses , bicycles , motors , and other machinery .
Their work with  साइकिल in particular बहकावे उनके विश्वास कि  an unstable vehicle like a flying machine could be controlled and balanced with practice .
From 1900 until their first powered flights in late 1903 , they  conducted extensive glider परीक्षण कि भी विकसित उनके कौशल  as pilots .
Their bicycle shop employee Charlie  टेलर became an महत्वपूर्ण भाग of the टोली , भवन उनके पहला वायुयान  engine in close collaboration with the brothers .
The Wright brothers '  औकात as आविष्कारक of the वायुयान रै महरूम  subject to counter-claims by various parties .
Much controversy persists  over the अनेक स्पर्धा दावा  of early aviators .
America 's Next Top Model , Cycle 12 is the twelfth cycle of America 's Next Top Model and  the छठे ऋतु to एयर on the cw संजाल  .
It premiered on  कूच 4 , 2009 .
The  साईकिल 's कैच  phrase is `` Get In The Fold . ''
the साईकिल 's promotional सोंग  is Lady Gaga 's `` The Fame '' .
The  पुरस्कार  for this cycle are:
A  मॉडलिंग अनुबंध  with Elite Model Management .
A fashion  स्प्रेड और कवर  in Seventeen .
A 100,000 contract with  covergirl कॉस्मेटिक्स  .
The first half of the cycle took place in New York City ,  चलती the दिखाएँ वापस इससे लॉस एंजिल्स  last season .
The international destination  लिये इस साईकिल is são पाउलो , ब्राज़ील , the श्रेणी  first visit to South America .
The  क्रमांक of लड़कियों थी घटाया  to 13 , the first time since Cycle 9 , after being maintained at 14 in the last two cycles .
इस थी the पिछला समय paulina  Porizkova participated as judge .
The winner was  20-year-old teyona एंडरसन  from Woodstown , New Jersey .
This season averaged 4.35  लाख दर्शक  per episode .
Exxon Mobil Corporation , or ExxonMobil , is an  अमरीकी बहुराष्ट्रीय आयल और गैस निगम  headquartered in Irving , Texas , United States .
It is a direct  वंशज of जॉन D. rockefeller 's मानक आयल कम्पनी , और थी formed  on November 30 , 1999 , by the merger of Exxon and Mobil .
It is affiliated with  इम्पीरियल आयल जिससे operates in  Canada .
ExxonMobil is the world 's largest company by revenue and in 2013 , became the largest publicly traded company by market  capitalization  in the world .
The company  is क्रमित # 5 globally in  Forbes Global 2000 list in 2013 .
Exxon  mobil 's reserves यहूद 72  billion oil-equivalent barrels at the end of 2007 and , at then ( 2007 ) rates of production , are expected to last over 14 years .
With 37 oil refineries in 21 countries constituting a combined daily  शोधन क्षमता of , exxon mobil is the largest refiner in the संसार , a शीर्षक कि  was also associated with Standard Oil since its incorporation in 1870 .
ExxonMobil is the largest of the world 's supermajors with daily production of 3.921  लाख boe ( barrels of आयल समतुल्य  ) .
In 2008 , this was approximately 3 % of world production , which is  कम than अनेक of the largest state-owned पेट्रोलियम  companies .
When  क्रमित by आयल और गैस reserves  it is 14th in the world with less than 1 % of the total .
A 2012  आलेख in the रोज़ टेलीग्राफ says कि exxonmobil रै ``  grown into one of the planet’s most hated corporations , able to determine American foreign policy and the fate of entire nations '' .
In terms  of इसके पर्यावरणीय रिकार्ड , exxonmobil increasingly drills in  terrains leased to them by dictatorships , such as those in Chad and Equatorial Guinea .
Lee  रेमंड , the corporation’s मुख्य  executive until 2005 , was `` notoriously sceptical about climate change and disliked government interference at any level '' .
The company was  widely criticized लिये इसके slow जवाब to सफ़ाई  its 1989 Valdez oil spill in Alaska .
इस आलेख is परिचय the  Globe Theatre of Shakespeare .
For the modern reconstruction in  लंदन , देखिए शेक्सपियर 's ग्लोब  .
For other  उपयोग , देखिए ग्लोब  Theatre ( disambiguation ) .
The Globe Theatre was a theatre in London  संबद्ध साथ विलियम  Shakespeare .
It was built in 1599 by Shakespeare 's playing company , the Lord Chamberlain 's Men , on land owned by Thomas Brend and inherited by his son , Nicholas Brend and  पोता सर मैथ्यू brend , और थी नष्ट by आग on 29 जून  1613 .
A second Globe Theatre was built on the same site by June  1614  and closed in 1642 .
A  आधुनिक पुनर्निर्माण of the ग्लोब , नामित `` शेक्सपियर  's Globe `` , opened in 1997 approximately from the site of the original theatre .
It 's a Wonderful Life is a 1946 American Christmas drama film produced  और निर्देशित by फ़्रैंक capra , आधारित on the छोटी स्टोरी `` the महानतम तोहफा `` , जिससे फिलिप वैन doren stern  wrote in 1939 and privately published in 1945 .
The film is considered one of the most loved films in American cinema and has become traditional viewing during  the क्रिसमस ऋतु , alongside लोकप्रिय क्लासिक ऐसे as चार्ल्स  Dickens ' A Christmas Carol .
The film stars James Stewart as George Bailey , a man who has  दिए up उसके सपनो in अनुक्रम to सहायता अन्य और जिनकी निकट आत्महत्या on क्रिसमस संध्या brings परिचय the  intervention of his guardian angel , Clarence Odbody ( Henry Travers ) .
क्लेरेंस shows जार्ज सब the जीवनदान he रै छुआ और  how different life in his community of Bedford Falls would be had he never been born .
Despite initially performing poorly at the box office due to high production costs and stiff competition at the  समय of इसके रिलीज , the फिल्मी रै आइये to be regarded as a क्लासिक  and is a staple of Christmas television around the world .
theatrically , the फिल्मी 's break-even पाइंट थी दरअसल  $ 6.3 million , approximately twice the production cost , a figure it never came close to achieving in its initial release .
An appraisal in 2006 reported : `` Although it was not the complete box office failure that today everyone believes ... it was initially a major disappointment and  पुष्टि , at तनिक to the studios , कि capra थी no longer सक्षम of turning आउट the populist सुविधाएँ कि बना उसके films the must-see , money-making कार्यक्रम वे एकबार  were . ''
The film was  मनोनीत लिये पाँच ऑस्कर और रै महरूम  recognized by the American Film Institute as one of the 100 best American films ever made , placing number 11 on its initial 1998 greatest movie list , and would also place number one on its list of the most inspirational American films of all time .
Data  गोदाम अवलोकन
In computing , a data warehouse  or एंटरप्राइज़ आंकड़ा गोदाम ( dw , dwh , or edw ) is  a database used for reporting and data analysis .
It is a central repository of  आंकड़ा जिससे is निर्मित by  integrating data from one or more disparate sources .
Data warehouses store current as well as historical data and are used for creating trending reports  लिये वरिष्ठ प्रबन्धन रिपोर्टिंग ऐसे as सालाना और  quarterly comparisons .
The data stored in the warehouse are uploaded from the operational systems ( such  as विपणन , बिक्री etc. , दिखाया in the फिगर  to the right ) .
The data may pass through an operational data  स्टोर लिये अतिरिक्त परिचालन पहले वे हैं  used in the DW for reporting .
The typical  etl -आधारd आंकड़ा गोदाम  uses staging , data integration , and access layers to house its key functions .
The  स्टेजिंग परत or स्टेजिंग डेटाबेस स्टोर्स  raw data extracted from each of the disparate source data systems .
The integration  परत integrates the disparate आंकड़ा सेट by transforming the आंकड़ा इससे the स्टेजिंग परत  often storing this transformed data in an operational data store ( ODS ) database .
The integrated data are then moved to yet another database , often called the data warehouse database , where  the आंकड़ा is arranged into hierarchical समूह प्रायः पुकारा आयाम और into तथ्य  and aggregate facts .
The combination  of तथ्य और आयाम is sometimes पुकारा  a star schema .
The access  परत helps उपयोक्ता retrieve  data .
A data warehouse constructed from an integrated data source systems does not  आवश्यकता etl , स्टेजिंग databases , or operational  data store databases .
The integrated data source systems may be considered  to be a भाग of a  distributed operational data store layer .
Data federation methods or data virtualization methods may be used to access the distributed integrated source data systems to  consolidate और कुल आंकड़ा  directly into the data warehouse database tables .
Unlike the ETL-based data warehouse , the integrated  सोर्स आंकड़ा प्रणालियों और the आंकड़ा गोदाम हैं सब एकीकृत चूंकि  there is no transformation of dimensional or reference data .
This integrated data warehouse architecture  supports the ड्रिल bas इससे  the aggregate data of the data warehouse to the transactional data of the integrated source data systems .
आंकड़ा warehouses can be subdivided  into data marts .
Data marts store subsets of data  इससे a गोदाम  .
This definition of the  आंकड़ा गोदाम focuses  on data storage .
The main source of the data is cleaned , transformed , cataloged and made available for use by  प्रबंधक और अन्य कारोबार पेशेवर लिये आंकड़ा खनन , ऑनलाइन विश्लेषणात्मक प्रसंस्करण , मार्केट शोध  and decision support ( Marakas & O'Brien 2009 ) .
However , the means to retrieve and analyze data , to extract , transform and load data , and to manage the  आंकड़ा शब्दकोष हैं भी माना अनिवार्य components of a  data warehousing system .
Many references to data  warehousing उपयोग इस broader  context .
Thus , an expanded definition for data warehousing includes business intelligence tools , tools to extract , transform and load data into  the repository , और टूल्स to मैनेज और retrieve  metadata .
Portland stone quarry on the Isle  of पोर्टलैंड , इंग्लैण्ड
An abandoned construction aggregate  पाषाण निकट एडिलेड , दक्षिण  Australia
A quarry is a type of  open-pit मेरा इससे जिससे चट्टान or खनिज  are extracted .
Quarries are generally used for extracting  भवन सामग्री , ऐसे as आयाम स्टोन , निर्माण  aggregate , riprap , sand , and gravel .
They are often collocated with concrete and  डामर पौधे due to the आवश्यकता लिये विशाल  amounts of aggregate in those materials .
Open mines that produce minerals are typically  referred to as खोलें गड्ढे खानों  .
The word quarry can include underground quarrying for  स्टोन , ऐसे as नहाना  stone .
Mormons ( ) are a  धार्मिक और सांस्कृतिक समूह सम्बन्धित to mormonism , the  principal branch of the Latter Day Saint movement of Restorationist Christianity , which began with the visions of Joseph Smith in upstate New York during the 1820s .
After Smith 's death in 1844 the Mormons  followed ब्रिघम यंग to कया होता become the  Utah Territory .
Today  mormons हैं समझा to be सदस्यों  of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints ( LDS Church ) .
Some  mormons हैं भी either  independent or non-practicing .
The center of Mormon cultural influence is in Utah , and North America has more Mormons than  कोई अन्य महाद्वीप , हालांकि the बहुमत of mormons सजीव बाहर the संयुक्त राज्य  .
Mormons have developed a strong sense of  communality कि तना इससे  their doctrine and history .
During the 19th century Mormon converts tended to gather to a central geographic location , and  between 1852 और 1890 a अल्पसंख्यक of mormons खुलकर practiced बहुवचन विवाह , a रूप of धार्मिक  polygamy .
mormons dedicate विशाल amounts of समय और  resources to serving in their church , and many young Mormons choose to serve a full-time proselytizing mission .
mormons have a स्वास्थ्य कोड कि eschews alcoholic  beverages , tobacco , coffee , tea , and other addictive substances .
They tend to be very family-oriented , and have strong connections across  पीढियां और साथ  extended family , reflective of their belief that families can be sealed together beyond death and throughout eternity .
Mormons also have a strict law of chastity , requiring abstention from sexual  संबंध बाहर of विवाह और सख्त वफ़ादारी भीतर  marriage .
Mormons self-identify as  ईसाई , हालांकि कुछ of उनके मान्यताओं differ  from mainstream Christianity .
Mormons believe in the Bible , as well as other books of scripture , such as  the किताब of mormon .
They have a unique view of cosmology , and believe that all  लोगों हैं spirit-children  of God .
Mormons believe that returning to God requires following the  उदाहरण of यीशु मसीह , और accepting उसके प्रायश्चित through ordinances  such as baptism .
They believe that  मसीह 's गिरिजाघर थी  restored through Joseph Smith , and is guided by living prophets and apostles .
Central to Mormon  आस्था is the विश्वास कि परमेश्वर बोलती  to his children and answers their prayers .
In financial  हिसाब , एसेट हैं आर्थिक  resources .
Anything tangible or intangible that is  सक्षम of होने स्वामित्व or नियंत्रित to उपज मान और कि  is held to have positive economic value is considered an asset .
Simply stated , assets represent value of  स्वामित्व कि can be परिवर्तित  into cash ( although cash itself is also considered an asset ) .
the संतुलन चादर of  a firm records the monetaryJ .
G. Siegel , N. Dauber & J. K. Shim , `` The Vest Pocket CPA '' , Wiley , 2005.There are different  विधि of assessing the मौद्रिक मान of the एसेट अंकित on  the Balance Sheet .
In some cases , the Historical Cost is used ; such that the value of the asset when it was bought in the past is  प्रयुक्त as the मौद्रिक  value .
In other instances , the present fair market value of the asset is  प्रयुक्त to determine the मान दिखाया on the संतुलन  sheet .
value of the assets  स्वामित्व by the कड़  .
It is money and other valuables belonging  to an व्यक्तिगत or  business .
Two major asset classes are tangible assets and  intangible एसेट  .
Tangible assets contain  विभिन्न subclasses , सहित  current assets and fixed assets.J .
Downes , J.E . Goodman , `` Dictionary of Finance & Investment Terms '' , Baron 's Financial Guides , 2003 Current assets include inventory , while fixed assets include such items as buildings and equipment .J . Downes , J.E . Goodman , `` Dictionary of Finance & Investment Terms '' , Baron 's Financial Guides , 2003 ; and J. G. Siegel , N. Dauber & J. K. Shim ,  `` the बनियान जेब cpa '' , wiley , 2005  .
Intangible assets are  nonphysical संसाधन और अधिकारों कि have a मान  to the firm because they give the firm some kind of advantage in the market place .
Examples of intangible assets are goodwill ,  copyrights , trademarks , patents और कंप्यूटर  programs , and financial assets , including such items as accounts receivable , bonds and stocks .
A neuron ( or ; also known as a neurone or nerve cell ) is an electrically  excitable कोशिका कि प्रक्रियाओं और transmits सूचना through  electrical and chemical signals .
A chemical signal occurs via a synapse ,  a specialized कनेक्शन साथ  other cells .
Neurons connect to each other to  रूप neural संजाल .
Neurons are  the कोर components of the बेचैन प्रणाली ,  which includes the brain , spinal cord , and peripheral ganglia .
A number of specialized types of neurons exist : sensory neurons respond to touch , sound , light and  numerous अन्य stimuli affecting कोशिकाएं of the संवेदी अंगों  that then send signals to the spinal cord and brain .
Motor neurons receive  सिग्नल इससे the दिमाग और स्पाइनल cord , कारण  muscle contractions , and affect glands .
interneurons कनेक्ट न्यूरॉन्स to अन्य न्यूरॉन्स भीतर  the same region of the brain or spinal cord .
A typical neuron possesses a cell body ( often called  the सोम ) , dendrites , और  an axon .
Dendrites are thin structures that arise from the cell body ,  प्रायः extending लिये सैंकड़ों of micrometres  and branching multiple times , giving rise to a complex `` dendritic tree '' .
An axon is a special cellular extension that arises from the cell  देह at a साईट पुकारा the axon उभरकर और ट्रेवल्स लिये  a distance , as far as 1 meter in humans or even more in other species .
The cell body of a neuron frequently  देता वृद्धि to अनेक dendrites , लकिन never to अधिक than एक  axon , although the axon may branch hundreds of times before it terminates .
At the majority of  synapses , सिग्नल हैं  sent from the axon of one neuron to a dendrite of another .
वहीँ हैं , however , अनेक अपवाद to ये नियम : न्यूरॉन्स कि कमी dendrites  , neurons that have no axon , synapses that connect an axon to another axon or a dendrite to another dendrite , etc .
All neurons are  electrically excitable , maintaining वोल्टेज अनुपात आरपार उनके झिल्लियों by अर्थात् of metabolically चलित आयन पंपों , जिससे combine  with ion channels embedded in the membrane to generate intracellular-versus-extracellular concentration differences of ions such as sodium , potassium , chloride , and calcium .
Changes in the  cross-membrane वोल्टेज can alter  the function of voltage-dependent ion channels .
If the voltage  परिवर्तन by a विशाल पर्याप्त राशि , an all-or-none electrochemical पल्स पुकारा an कार्रवाई संभावित is उत्पन्न  , which travels rapidly along the cell 's axon , and activates synaptic connections with other cells when it arrives .
Neurons do not  undergo कोशिका प्रभाग  .
In most cases , neurons are  उत्पन्न by खास प्रकार of स्टेम कोशिकाएं  .
Astrocytes , a type of glial  कोशिका , have भी महरूम observed to फेरे  into neurons by virtue of the stem cell characteristic pluripotency .
In humans , neurogenesis largely ceases during adulthood—but in two brain areas , the hippocampus and olfactory bulb ,  वहीँ is दमदार प्रमाण लिये पीढी of substantial संख्याएँ of नई  neurons .
Super  कटोरी xliii थी an अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल खेल between the अमरीकी  Football Conference ( AFC ) champion Pittsburgh Steelers and the National Football Conference ( NFC ) champion Arizona Cardinals to decide the National Football League ( NFL ) champion for the 2008 season .
The Steelers defeated the  कार्डिनल्स by the स्कोर  of 27–23 .
The game was played  on फ़रवरी 1  , 2009 , at Raymond James Stadium in Tampa , Florida .
With this win , the  स्टीलर्स became the पहला टोली  to win six Super Bowls .
Pittsburgh , who finished the regular season with a 12–4 record , also won their second Super Bowl in four years after winning  सुपर कटोरी xl at the समाप्त of the 2005 ऋतु  .
The Cardinals entered the game seeking their first NFL title  चूंकि 1947 , the longest चैंपियनशिप  drought in the league .
The club became an unexpected winner during the regular season , compiling a 9–7  रिकार्ड , और the playoffs साथ the सहायता of सिर कोच केन whisenhunt  , who was the Steelers ' offensive coordinator in Super Bowl XL , and the re-emergence of quarterback Kurt Warner , who was the Super Bowl MVP in Super Bowl XXXIV with his former team , St. Louis Rams .
Pittsburgh jumped to a 17–7 halftime lead , aided by linebacker James  हैरिसन 's सुपर कटोरी रिकार्ड 100-yard interception वापसी लिये a touchdown  .
Trailing 20–7 at the start of the fourth quarter , Arizona scored 16 unanswered points , including wide receiver  लैरी fitzgerald 's 64-yard touchdown रिसेप्शन , to लो the सीसे  with 2:37 remaining in the game .
But the Steelers marched 78 yards to score on wide receiver Santonio Holmes ' 6-yard  game-winning touchdown कैच साथ 35  seconds left .
Holmes , who caught nine passes for 131 yards and a touchdown , including four receptions for 73 yards on that final  game-winning ड्राइव , थी नामित सुपर  Bowl MVP .
He became the  छठे चौड़ी receiver to जीत  the award , and also was the third Pittsburgh receiver to win the award , following Lynn Swann and Hines Ward .
Despite  the वैश्विक वित्तीय संकट और सीमित राशि of आनुषंगिक festivities कि हैं सामान्यतः आयोजित पहले the खेल  , the NBC television network broadcast attracted an average U.S. audience of 98.7 million viewers , making it the most watched Super Bowl in history to that point .
A diagram of the  इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक वर्णक्रम , प्रर्दशित विभिन्न गुण आरपार the दायरा  of frequencies and wavelengths
The electromagnetic spectrum is the range of all possible  बारंबारता of इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक  radiation .
The `` electromagnetic spectrum '' of an object has a different meaning , and is instead the  characteristic वितरण of इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक विकिरण उत्सर्जित  or absorbed by that particular object .
the इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक वर्णक्रम extends इससे नीचे the कम बारंबारता प्रयुक्त लिये आधुनिक रेडियो संचार  to gamma radiation at the short- wavelength ( high-frequency ) end , thereby covering wavelengths from thousands of kilometers down to a fraction of the size of an atom .
The limit for long wavelengths is the size of the universe itself , while it is thought that the short wavelength limit is in  the vicinity of the  Planck length , although in principle the spectrum is infinite and continuous .
Most parts of the electromagnetic spectrum are used in science for spectroscopic and other probing interactions  , as तरीके to पढ़ाई और characterize पदार्थ  .
In addition , radiation from various parts of the spectrum has found many other uses for  संचार और निर्माण ( देखिए इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक विकिरण लिये  more applications ) .
लेजेंड
marchantia  , a liverwort
Bryophyte is a traditional name used to refer to all embryophytes ( land plants ) that  do नहीं have सच्चा vascular ऊतक और हैं इसलिए पुकारा ' non-vascular पौधे  ' .
Some bryophytes do have specialized tissues  लिये the हस्तांतरण of जल ; however  since these do not contain lignin , they are not considered to be true vascular tissue .
Currently bryophytes are thought not to be a natural or monophyletic  समूह ; however the नाम is सुविधाजनक  and remains in use as a collective term for mosses , hornworts , and liverworts .
bryophytes उपज enclosed reproductive  structures ( gametangia and sporangia ) , but they produce neither flowers nor seeds , reproducing via spores .
The term  ब्रायोफाइटा आता इससे यूनानी βρύον , bryon , `` tree-moss  , oyster-green '' + φυτόν - phyton `` plant '' .
A bank is a  वित्तीय संस्था और a वित्तीय intermediary  that accepts deposits and channels those deposits into lending activities , either directly by loaning or indirectly through capital markets .
A bank is the connection between customers that have capital  deficits और ग्राहक साथ पूंजी surpluses  .
Due to their influence within a financial  प्रणाली और an अर्थव्यवस्था , बैंको हैं generally  highly regulated in most countries .
Most banks operate  अंतर्गत a प्रणाली ज्ञात as fractional आरक्षित बैंकिंग जहाँ वे थाम तभी  a small reserve of the funds deposited and lend out the rest for profit .
They are generally subject to minimum capital requirements which are based on an international set of  पूंजी मानकों , ज्ञात as the basel  Accords .
The  oldest बैंको स्टिल in अस्तित्व is मोंटे देई  Paschi di Siena , headquartered in Siena , Italy , which has been operating continuously since 1472 .
It is followed by Berenberg  बैंको of हैम्बर्ग  ( 1590 ) and Sveriges Riksbank of Sweden ( 1668 ) .
Banking in its  आधुनिक भाव विकसित in समृद्ध शहरों of पुनर्जागरण इटली , ऐसे as  Florence , Venice and Genoa .
In the history of banking , a number of banking dynasties —among them notably Medici , Fugger , Welser , Berenberg ,  baring और रोथ्सचाइल्ड —have निभाई a सेंट्रल भूमिका over अनेक सदियां  .
The Xbox is a video  खेल कंसोल manufactured by  Microsoft .
It was  released on नवम्बर 15 , 2001 in उत्तर अमेरिका  , February 22 , 2002 in Japan , and March 14 , 2002 in Australia and Europe .
It was  microsoft 's पहला foray into  the gaming console market .
As part of the sixth-generation of gaming , the Xbox competed with Sony 's PlayStation 2 , Sega  's dreamcast ( जिससे रोका अमरीकी बिक्री पहले  the Xbox went on sale ) , and Nintendo 's GameCube .
The Xbox was the first  कंसोल offered by an अमरीकी कम्पनी बाद  the Atari Jaguar stopped sales in 1996 .
The integrated Xbox Live service launched in  नवम्बर 2002 अनुमत खिलाड़ी to खेल  games online with a broadband connection .
It first competed with  dreamcast 's ऑनलाइन सेवा लकिन  later primarily competed with PlayStation 2 's online service .
Although these two are free while Xbox Live required a subscription , as well as broadband-only connection which was not completely adopted yet , Xbox Live was a success due to  बेहतर सर्वर , सुविधाएँ ऐसे as a दोस्त सूची , और पड़ाव शीर्षक जैसे हेलो 2 released in नवम्बर 2004 , जिससे is the best-selling एक्सबॉक्स वीडियो खेल और थी by दूर  the most popular online game for years .
Xbox 's  successor , the एक्सबॉक्स 360 , थी  launched in November 2005 .
The Xbox was discontinued in late 2005  in जापानी जहाँ बिक्री यहूद  poor .
It was  discontinued in लेट 2006 in यूरोपीय और  early 2007 in North America .
The last Xbox game in Europe was Tony Hawk 's  प्रोजेक्ट 8 released in नवम्बर 2006 , और the  last game in North America was Madden NFL 09 released in August 2008 .
Support for out-of-warranty Xbox consoles was discontinued on March 2 , 2009 , stating that any  in-warranty मरम्मत अभी needed होगा नहीं be undertaken  .
Xbox access to Xbox Live  थी रोका  on April 15 , 2010 .
The Gospel According to John ( Greek τὸ κατὰ Ἰωάννην εὐαγγέλιον ) , commonly referred to as the  इन्जील of जॉन or बस जॉन और प्रायः referred to in नई वसीयत स्कॉलरशिप as the  Fourth Gospel , is an account of the public ministry of Jesus .
It begins with the witness and affirmation by John the Baptist and concludes with the death , burial  , क़यामत , और post-resurrection दिखावे  of Jesus .
This account is  चौथी of the canonical  gospels , after the synoptics Matthew , Mark and Luke .
states  कि the किताब गर्भाशयी इससे the गवाही  of the ' disciple whom Jesus loved . '
Along with Peter , the unnamed  शिष्य is विशेषकर बंद to यीशु , और early-church परंपरा पहचाना  him as John the Apostle , one of Jesus ' Twelve Apostles .
The gospel is closely related in style and content to the three surviving Epistles of John such that  टीकाकारों दावत the चार किताबे साथ , yet , according to सबसे आधुनिक विद्वानों , जॉन थी नहीं the लेखक  of any of these books .
Recent Christian Scripture scholarship more and more has  लगाई जॉन भीतर a first-century यहूदी  context .
Raymond E. Brown did pioneering work to trace the  विकास of the  tradition from which the gospel arose .
The discourses seem  to be चिंतित साथ the वास्तविक  issues of the church-and-synagogue debate at the time when the Gospel was written .
It is notable  कि , in the इन्जील , the जातियाँ स्टिल appears to  define itself primarily against Judaism , rather than as part of a wider Christian church .
Though  christianity प्रारंभ  as a movement within Judaism , gradually Christians and Jews became bitterly opposed .
John presents a  `` उच्चतर '' christology than the synoptics  , meaning that it describes Jesus as the incarnation of the divine Logos through whom all things were made , as the object of veneration , and more explicitly as God incarnate .
Only in John does Jesus talk at length about himself  और उसके दैवी भूमिका , प्रायः  shared with the disciples only .
Against the  synoptics , जॉन focuses largely on अलग  miracles ( including resurrecting Lazarus ) , given as signs meant to engender faith .
Synoptic elements such as  parables और exorcisms हैं  not found in John .
It  presents a एहसास eschatology in जिससे मोक्ष  is already present for the believer .
The Plagues of Egypt ( ) , also called the Ten Plagues ( ) or the Biblical Plagues , were ten calamities that  , according to the biblical किताब of exodus , इसराईल 's परमेश्वर , yahweh , inflicted upon मिश्र to राजी pharaoh to  release the ill-treated Israelites from slavery .
Pharaoh capitulated after the tenth  प्लेग , triggering the exodus of  the Jewish people .
The  plagues यहूद designed  to contrast the power of Yahweh with the impotence of Egypt 's various gods .
Some commentators have associated several of the plagues with judgment on  विशिष्ट देवताओं संबद्ध साथ the nile , प्रजनन और प्राकृतिक  phenomena .
The plagues of Egypt are also mentioned in the  कुरान ( 7,133–136  ) .
According to the Book of Exodus  , परमेश्वर proclaims कि सब the देवताओं of  Egypt will be judged through the tenth and final plague:
John Martin  's पेंटिंग of the  plague of hail and fire ( 1823 ) .
A role-playing game ( RPG and sometimes roleplaying game ) is a game in which players  assume the भूमिकाएँ of वर्ण  in a fictional setting .
Players take responsibility for acting out these roles within a  कथा , either through  literal acting or through a process of structured decision-making or character development .
Actions taken within many games succeed  or असफल according to a औपचारिक प्रणाली  of rules and guidelines .
There are several  फ़ॉर्म of आरपीजी .
The original form , sometimes called the tabletop RPG , is conducted  through चर्चा , whereas in सजीव कार्रवाई role-playing  games ( LARP ) players physically perform their characters ' actions .
In both of these  फ़ॉर्म , an arranger पुकारा a खेल निपुण ( gm ) प्रायः decides on the नियम और सेटिंग to be प्रयुक्त और अधिनियमों as रेफरी , जबकि  each of the other players plays the role of a single character .
Several varieties of RPG also exist in electronic media , such as multi-player text-based MUDs and their  graphics-based successors , massively एकाधिक  online role-playing games ( MMORPGs ) .
Role-playing games also  शामिल single-player ऑफ़लाइन role-playing  video games in which players control a character or team who undertake quests , and may include capabilities that advance using statistical mechanics .
These games often share settings and rules with tabletop RPGs , but emphasize  अक्षर उन्नति अधिक than collaborative storytelling  .
Despite this variety of forms , some  खेल फ़ॉर्म ऐसे as व्यापार कार्ड खेल  and wargames that are related to role-playing games may not be included .
role-playing कार्यकलाप  may sometimes be present in such games , but it is not the primary focus .
The term is also sometimes used to describe roleplay simulation games and exercises used in  शिक्षण , प्रशिक्षण , और अकादमिक  research .
The American Civil War ( ACW ) , also known as the War between the States or simply the Civil War ( see naming ) , was a civil war fought from 1861 to 1865 between the United States ( the `` Union '' or the `` North '' ) and several Southern slave  राज्य कि घोषित उनके secession और formed the confederate राज्य  of America ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ) .
The war  था इसके उत्पत्ति in the समस्या of गुलामी  , especially the extension of slavery into the western territories .
Foreign  शक्तियां किया नहीं  intervene .
After four years of bloody combat that left over  600,000 सैनिको मुर्दे और नष्ट much of the दक्षिण 's अवसंरचना , the confederacy collapsed , गुलामी थी abolished  , and the difficult Reconstruction process of restoring national unity and guaranteeing rights to the freed slaves began .
In the 1860  अध्यक्षीय चुनाव , republicans , led by अब्राहम lincoln ,  opposed expanding slavery into United States ' territories .
Lincoln won , but before his inauguration  on कूच 4 , 1861 , सात cotton-based स्लेव  states formed the Confederacy .
outgoing लोकतांत्रिक अध्यक्ष जेम्स बुकानन  and the incoming Republicans rejected secession as illegal .
Lincoln  's inaugural पता घोषित  his administration would not initiate civil war .
Eight  बाकी स्लेव राज्य जारी  to reject calls for secession .
Confederate forces seized numerous federal forts within territory  claimed by the confederacy  .
A Peace Conference  विफल to ढूँढें a सुलह , और  both sides prepared for war .
The Confederates assumed that European countries were so dependent on `` King Cotton `` that they would intervene ;  none किया और none पहचाना  the new Confederate States of America .
Hostilities began on April 12 , 1861 , when Confederate forces fired upon  फोर्ट sumter , a कुंजी फोर्ट आयोजित by संघ सैनिकों in दक्षिण कैरोलिना  .
Lincoln called for each state to provide troops to retake the  फोर्ट ; नतीजतन , चार अधिक स्लेव राज्य joined the  Confederacy , bringing their total to eleven .
The  संघ जल्द नियंत्रित the  border states and established a naval blockade that crippled the southern economy .
The Eastern  थिएटर थी inconclusive  in 1861–62 .
The  पतझड़ 1862 confederate  campaign into Maryland ( a Union state ) ended with Confederate retreat at the Battle of Antietam , dissuading British intervention .
lincoln जारी the emancipation  Proclamation , which made ending slavery a war goal .
To the west , by summer 1862 the Union destroyed the Confederate river navy , then much of their western armies , and the Union at Vicksburg  विभाजित the confederacy in दो at the मिसिसिपी  River .
In  1863 , रॉबर्ट E. ली 's confederate  incursion north ended at the Battle of Gettysburg .
Western successes led to Ulysses S.  ग्रान्ट कमांड of सब संघ सेना  in 1864 .
In the Western Theater , William T. Sherman drove east to capture Atlanta and marched  to the समुद्र , destroying confederate अवसंरचना  along the way .
The Union marshaled the resources and manpower to attack the Confederacy from all directions , and could afford to fight battles of attrition through the  overland अभियान towards रिचमंड ,  the Confederate capital .
The defending Confederate army failed , leading to Lee 's surrender to Grant at Appomattox Court  हाउस on अप्रैल 9 , 1865  .
The American Civil War  थी एक of the earliest  true industrial wars .
Railroads , the  टेलीग्राफ , steamships  , and mass-produced weapons were employed extensively .
The mobilization of civilian factories , mines ,  shipyards , बैंको  , transportation and food supplies all foreshadowed World War I .
It remains the deadliest war in American  इतिहास , resulting in the मौतों of an अनुमानित 750,000 सैनिको और an undetermined क्रमांक  of civilian casualties .
Historian John Huddleston estimates the death toll at ten percent of all Northern males 20–45  सालो बूढ़ा , और 30 प्रतिशत of सब दक्षिणी श्वेत  males aged 18–40 .
The definition of the world 's busiest airport has been  निर्दिष्ट by the एयरपोर्ट  Council International in Geneva , Switzerland .
the aci defines और उपायों  the following three types of airport traffic:
यात्री ट्रैफ़िक : कुल यात्री emplaned  and deplaned , passengers in transit counted once
कार्गो ट्रैफ़िक : loaded और मोड  freight and mail in metric tonnes
Traffic movements :  अवतरण और take-offs  of aircraft
World War I ( WWI ) was a global war centred in  यूरोपीय कि began on 28 जुलाई 1914  and lasted until 11 November 1918 .
It was predominantly called the  संसार युद्ध or the ग्रेट युद्ध इससे  its occurrence until the start of World War II in 1939 , and the First World War or World War I thereafter .
It involved all the world 's great powers , which were assembled in two opposing alliances : the Allies ( based on the Triple Entente  of the संयुक्त किंगडम , फ़्रांस और रूस ) और the सेंट्रल  Powers ( originally the Triple Alliance of Germany , Austria-Hungary and Italy ; but , as Austria–Hungary had taken the offensive against the agreement , Italy did not enter into the war ) .
ये alliances यहूद दोनो reorganised  and expanded as more nations entered the war : Italy , Japan and the United States joined the Allies , and the Ottoman Empire and Bulgaria the Central Powers .
Ultimately , more than 70 million military personnel ,  सहित 60 लाख europeans , यहूद mobilised in एक of the largest  wars in history .
More than 9 million combatants were killed , largely because of technological advancements that led to enormous increases in the  lethality of हथियार बगैर सम्बन्धित सुधार in सुरक्षा  or mobility .
It was the fifth- deadliest conflict in world history , subsequently paving the way for various political changes , such as revolutions in many of the  राष्ट्र शामिल  .
One of the long-term causes of the war was the resurgence of imperialism in the foreign  नीतियों of the ग्रेट शक्तियां of यूरोपीय  .
More immediately , the assassination of  archduke फ्रांज फर्डिनेंड of ऑस्ट्रिया , the वारिस to  the throne of Austria-Hungary , on 28 June 1914 by Yugoslav nationalist Gavrilo Princip in Sarajevo triggered a diplomatic crisis when Austria-Hungary subsequently delivered an ultimatum to the Kingdom of Serbia .
Several alliances formed over the  पिछला दशकों यहूद invoked  .
Within weeks , the major powers were at war and , via their colonies , the  विरोध जल्द स्प्रेड around  the world .
On 28 July , the Austro-Hungarians fired the  पहला गोलियाँ of the युद्ध as तैयारी लिये the आक्रमण  of Serbia .
While the Russians mobilised , the Germans invaded neutral Belgium and  ध्वज on the रास्ता to फ़्रांस , providing a casus belli लिये  Britain 's declaration of war against Germany .
After the German march on Paris was brought to a halt—the so-called Miracle of the Marne —the Western Front settled into a static  बैटल of अपघर्षण साथ a गर्त लकीर कि बदला छोटी जबतक  1917 .
On the Eastern Front , the Russian army  थी कामयाब विरूद्ध the austro-hungarians  , but was stopped in its invasion of East Prussia by the Germans .
In November the Ottoman  साम्राज्य joined the युद्ध , खोलने up fronts in the काकेशस  , Mesopotamia and the Sinai .
Italy and Bulgaria went to  युद्ध in 1915 और रोमानिया in 1916  .
In Russia , the tsar 's  सरकारी collapsed in कूच 1917 और a subsequent क्रान्ति  in November brought the Russians to terms with the Central Powers .
After a 1918 German offensive along the  पश्चिमी सामने , the allies drove वापस the germans in a श्रेणी  of successful offensives and American forces began entering the trenches .
Germany ,  जिससे था इसके अपना ट्रबल साथ क्रांतिकारियों  , agreed to an armistice on 11 November 1918 .
The war ended in  विजय लिये the allies  .
Events on the home fronts were as tumultuous as on the battle fronts , as the  भागीदार आजमाया to mobilize उनके जनशक्ति और आर्थिक  resources to fight a total war .
By the end of the war , four major imperial powers—the German ,  रूसी , austro-hungarian और उस्मानी empires—ceased  to exist .
The successor states of the  पूर्व दो खोया a ग्रेट राशि of territory , जबकि the latter  two were dismantled entirely .
The map of central  यूरोपीय थी redrawn into अनेक  smaller states .
The League of Nations was formed in  the आशा of preventing another  such conflict .
The European nationalism spawned by the war and the breakup of  empires , the परखना of जर्मनी 's शिकस्त और समस्याएं साथ the  Treaty of Versailles are agreed to be factors contributing to World War II .
The Deepwater Horizon oil spill ( also referred to as the BP oil spill , the BP oil disaster , the Gulf of  मैक्सिको आयल spill , और the macondo blowout ) थी an आयल spill in the गल्फ of मैक्सिको on the bp -operated macondo prospect , माना the largest आकस्मिक समुद्री आयल  spill in the history of the petroleum industry , estimated to be between 8 % and 31 % larger in volume than the earlier Ixtoc I oil spill .
Following the  विस्फोट और डूब of the deepwater क्षितिज आयल रिग , जिससे claimed 11 जीवनदान , a sea-floor आयल gusher flowed unabated  for 87 days , until it was capped on 15 July 2010 .
The  कुल निर्वहन  is estimated at .
A massive response ensued to protect beaches , wetlands and estuaries from the  spreading आयल utilizing skimmer जहाजों , फ्लोटिंग  booms , controlled burns and of Corexit oil dispersant .
After several failed efforts to contain  the प्रवाह , the खूब थी  declared sealed on 19 September 2010 .
Some reports indicate the well site  continues to लीक  .
Due to the months-long spill , along with adverse effects from the  जवाब और क्लीनअप क्रियाएँ , extensive क्षति to समुद्री और वन्यजीव habitats  , fishing and tourism industries , and human health problems have continued through 2013.Three years after the spill , tar balls could still be found on the Mississippi coast .
Numerous  investigations छान the  causes of the explosion and record-setting spill .
Notably , the U.S. government 's September 2011 report pointed to defective cement on the well ,  faulting ज़्यादातर bp , लकिन भी खूब  operator Transocean and contractor Halliburton .
Earlier in 2011 , a White House commission likewise blamed BP and its partners for a series of cost-cutting decisions and an insufficient safety system , but also  concluded कि the spill resulted इससे `` प्रणालीगत '' रूट कल्याणकारी और `` अनुपस्थित significant सुधार in दोनो उद्योग practices  and government policies , might well recur '' .
In November 2012 , BP and the United States Department of Justice settled federal criminal  आरोप साथ bp pleading अपराधी to 11 रिश्तो of manslaughter , दो misdemeanors  , and a felony count of lying to Congress .
bp भी सहमत to चार सालो of सरकारी निगरानी of इसके सुरक्षा practices और आचार  , and the Environmental Protection Agency announced that BP would be temporarily banned from new contracts with the US government .
BP  और the विभाग of इंसाफ सहमत to a record-setting $ 4.525 अरब in जुर्माना और अन्य भुगतान लकिन further विधिक  proceedings not expected to conclude until 2014 are ongoing to determine payouts and fines under the Clean Water Act and the Natural Resources Damage Assessment .
as of फ़रवरी 2013 , दण्ड और सिविल  settlements and payments to a trust fund had cost the company $ 42.2 billion .
`` Where the Streets Have No Name '' is  a सोंग by चट्टान  band U2 .
It is the opening track from their 1987 album The Joshua Tree and was released as the album 's  तीसरा सिंगल in अगस्त 1987  .
The song 's hook is a repeating guitar arpeggio using a delay effect , played  दौरान the सोंग 's परिचय और again  at the end .
Lead vocalist Bono wrote  the गीत in जवाब to the ख़्याल कि  it is possible to identify a person 's religion and income based on the street on which they lived , particularly in Belfast .
During the band 's difficulties recording the song , producer Brian Eno  माना erasing the सोंग 's टेपों to have उन्हें प्रारंभ  from scratch .
`` Where the Streets Have No Name '' was praised by critics and became a commercial  कामयाबी , peaking at क्रमांक तेरह in the us , क्रमांक चौदह in कनाडा , क्रमांक टेन in the नीदरलैंड्स , और क्रमांक चार in the संयुक्त  Kingdom .
The song has become one of the band 's most popular songs and has remained a staple of their live  अधिनियम चूंकि the सोंग debuted in 1987 on  The Joshua Tree Tour .
The song was notably performed on a Los Angeles rooftop for the filming of its music video , which won a  ग्रैमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन प्रदर्शन म्यूज़िक वीडियो .recently the सोंग रै महरूम प्रयुक्त by the एनएफएल 's बाल्टीमोर ravens as उनके  entrance song in Super Bowl XLVII
Thomas Jeffrey `` Tom '' Hanks  ( born जुलाई 9 , 1956  ) is an American actor , producer , writer , and director .
Hanks is known for his roles in  अपोलो 13 , बिग , कि बात  You Do !
, The Green Mile , You 've Got Mail , Sleepless in Seattle , Charlie Wilson 's War , Catch Me If You Can ,  फॉरेस्ट गंप , डाल दूर , a लीग of उनके अपना , the da विंची कोड , फ़रिश्ते & राक्षसों , as  well as animated films like the Toy Story film series , The Polar Express , and The Simpsons Movie .
He has earned and been  मनोनीत लिये numerous पुरस्कार दौरान उसके करियर , सहित जीतना a सुनहरी ग्लोब लिये बेहतरीन कर्ता  and an Academy Award for Best Actor for his role in Philadelphia and a Golden Globe , an Academy Award , a Screen Actors Guild Award , and a People 's Choice Award for Best Actor for his role in Forrest Gump , and earning the Stanley Kubrick Britannia Award for Excellence in Film from the BAFTAs in 2004 .
Hanks  is भी ज्ञात लिये उसके सहयोग साथ फिल्मी निदेशक स्टीवन स्पिलबर्ग  on Saving Private Ryan and the mini-series Band of Brothers , which launched Hanks also as a successful director , producer and writer .
As of 2012 , Hanks ' films have grossed over $ 4.2 billion at the United States box office alone , and over  $ 8.5 अरब विश्वव्यापी बनाना उसे the उच्चतम all-time  box office star .
The Cape is an  अमरीकी सुपरहीरो  drama series .
It premiered on NBC during the 2010–2011 television season as a mid-season replacement beginning with a two-hour pilot  एपीसोड on संडे , जनवरी 9 , 2011 at 9 pm पूर्वी और प्रशांत  Time .
An encore played on Monday , January 10 , with follow-up episodes  continuing on सोमवार evenings  in the 9 pm timeslot beginning on January 17 .
NBC  subsequently काटें the कुल  number of episodes to be aired from 13 to 10 as a result of low ratings .
On March 2 , 2011 , NBC  घोषित कि the श्रेणी finale होता तभी be aired on  the network 's website .
Halley 's  धूमकेतु or धूमकेतु हैली (  or ) , officially designated 1P/Halley , is the best-known of the short-period comets and is visible from Earth every 75–76 years .
Halley is the only short-period comet that is clearly visible to the  नग्न नजर इससे धरती , और यूँ the तभी naked-eye धूमकेतु  that might appear twice in a human lifetime .
अन्य naked-eye धूमकेतुओं may be उज्जवल और अधिक spectacular  , but will appear only once in thousands of years .
Halley 's  रिटर्न to the भीतरी सौर प्रणाली have  been observed and recorded by astronomers since at least 240 BCE .
Clear records of the comet 's appearances were made by Chinese , Babylonian , and medieval  यूरोपीय chroniclers , लकिन यहूद नहीं पहचाना as reappearances of the वही  object at the time .
The comet 's periodicity was first determined in 1705 by  अंग्रेज़ी astronomer edmond हैली , बाद जिसको it is अभी  named .
Halley 's Comet last appeared in  the भीतरी सौर प्रणाली  in 1986 and will next appear in mid-2061 .
During its 1986 apparition , Halley became the first comet to be observed in detail by spacecraft ,  providing the पहला observational आंकड़ा on the ढांचा of a धूमकेतु केंद्रक और the यांत्रिकी of कोमा और टेल गठन  .
ये observations समर्थित a क्रमांक of longstanding hypotheses परिचय धूमकेतु निर्माण , विशेषकर फ्रेड whipple  's `` dirty snowball '' model , which correctly predicted that Halley would be composed of a mixture of volatile ices – such as water , carbon dioxide and ammonia – and dust .
The missions also provided data which substantially  reformed और reconfigured ये विचार ; लिये उदाहरण it is अभी समझा कि हैली 's सतह is largely  composed of dusty , non-volatile materials , and that only a small portion of it is icy .
The following  is a सूची of the सबसे populous incorporated  places of the United States of America .
As defined by the United States Census  ब्यूरो , an `` incorporated प्लेस `` शामिल a किस्में of designations  , including city , town , village , borough , and municipality .
A few  असाधारण जनसांख्यिकी designated  Places ( CDPs ) are also included in the Census Bureau 's listing of incorporated places .
Consolidated  city-counties represent a पृथक प्रकार of सरकारी कि  includes the entire population of a county , or county equivalent .
Some  संचित city-counties  , however , include multiple incorporated places .
This list presents only that portion ( or `` balance '' ) of such consolidated city-counties that are not a part of  another incorporated प्लेस  .
Note that this list refers only to the population of individual municipalities within their defined limits , which does not include other  municipalities or unincorporated suburban क्षेत्रों भीतर शहरी agglomerations  .
A different ranking is evident  जब considering u.S. महानगर क्षेत्रफल  populations .
The Mayflower was the ship that in 1620 transported  102 अंग्रेज़ी तीर्थयात्रियों , सहित a कोर समूह of separatists  , to New England .
Their story is one of  travail और अस्तित्व in a हर्ष  New World environment .
A New Zealand forward ( in white ) takes a shot on goal  विरूद्ध कैमरून in  the 2011 FIFA U-20 World Cup .
आगे , भी ज्ञात as strikers , हैं the खिलाड़ी on  a team in association football who play nearest to the opposing team 's goal , and are therefore principally responsible for scoring goals .
This very advanced position and its limited defensive  जिम्मेदारियों औसत आगे सामान्यतः स्कोर अधिक लक्ष्य than अन्य  players .
This position requires intelligence , speed , and power , both of execution and of thought , to perform  the भूमिका खूब  .
आधुनिक टोली formations प्रायः  include one to three forwards ; two is the most common .
Coaches typically field one striker who  plays in an उन्नत स्थिति ( the केन्द्र आगे ) , और another  attacking forward who plays somewhat deeper and assists in making goals as well as scoring ( the second striker ) .
It should be noted that inside forwards  develop इससे attacking midfield  positions and hence are naturally midfielders .
Barcelona FC star Lionel Messi is a typical Attacking Midfielder seen as a  आगे due to उसके शॉट सटीकता  .
A California domestic partnership is a legal relationship available  to same-sex युगल , और to निश्चित opposite-sex युगल in जिससे  at least one party is at least 18 years of age .
It affords the couple `` the same rights , protections , and benefits , and ... the same  जिम्मेदारियों , दायित्वों , और कर्तव्य अंतर्गत विधि ... ''  as married spouses .
Enacted in 1999 , the domestic partnership registry was the  पहला of इसके दयालु in the संयुक्त राज्य निर्मित  by a legislature without court intervention .
initially , घरेलू partnerships enjoyed  very few privileges—principally just hospital-visitation rights and the right to be claimed as a next of kin of the estate of a deceased partner .
The legislature has since  विस्तारित the पैमाना of कैलिफ़ोर्निया घरेलू partnerships to शामिल  all of the rights and responsibilities common to marriage .
As such , California domestic partnerships are  functionally समतुल्य to सिविल संघ offered in अनेक अन्य राज्य  .
Although the program  enjoys व्यापक support in कैलिफ़ोर्निया , it रै  been the source of some controversy .
Groups opposed to the recognition  of same-sex परिवारों have challenged  the expansion of domestic partnerships in court .
Conversely , advocates of same-sex marriage contend that anything less than full marriage rights extended to same-sex  साझेदार is analogous to the `` पृथक लकिन बराबर '' जातिगत कानून of the जिम कौवा  era .
Mark A. Jackson ( born April 1 , 1965 ) is an American basketball coach , and former player  जो is the वर्तमान सिर कोच  of the Golden State Warriors of the NBA .
A point guard from St. John 's University  , he निभाई लिये the नई यॉर्क knicks , इंडियाना पेसर्स , लॉस एंजिल्स क्लिपर्स  , Denver Nuggets , Toronto Raptors , Utah Jazz and Houston Rockets in the NBA in a career spanning from 1987 to 2004 .
Jackson has also  worked as a कमेंटेटर लिये ईएसपीएन और एबीसी alongside उसके पूर्व कोच जेफ़  Van Gundy and play-by-play man Mike Breen .
He was previously an NBA  विश्लेषक लिये the यस  Network 's New Jersey Nets games .
South Africa has eleven official languages : Afrikaans , English , Ndebele , Northern Sotho  , sotho , swazi , tswana , सोंगा , venda , ख़ोसा और  Zulu .
Fewer than two percent of South Africans  बोलो a पहला भाषा अन्य than an आधिकारिक  one .
Most South Africans can speak more  than एक भाषा .
डच और अंग्रेज़ी यहूद  the first official languages of South Africa from 1910 to 1925 .
Afrikaans was added as a  भाग of  Dutch in 1925 .
Dutch was replaced by Afrikaans when  दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी became a गणतंत्र in 1961 , और डच थी dropped in 1983 , so between  1983 and 1994 , South Africa had two official languages : English and Afrikaans .
The English version of the South African constitution refers  to the भाषाएं by the names in those भाषाएं : isizulu , isixhosa , अफ्रीकी , sepedi ( referring to उत्तरी sotho ) , setswana  , English , Sesotho ( referring to Southern Sotho ) , Xitsonga , Siswati , Tshivenda and isiNdebele ( referring to Southern Ndebele ) .
In South Africa , Southern Ndebele is known simply as Ndebele , as most  अध्यक्षों of उत्तरी ndebele सजीव in ज़िम्बाब्वे  .
The 1993 version of the Constitution referred to Northern Sotho as  sesotho sa leboa , लकिन the 1996 संस्करण  referred to the language as Sepedi .
Different  सरकारी विभाग और आधिकारिक लाशें  use different terms to denote Northern Sotho .
The main language of government is English even if South Africans often take pride in using  स्वदेशी भाषाएं लिये कोई purpose  .
Afrikaans also features  prominently in कॉमर्स साथ साथ अंग्रेज़ी as the भाषाएं  with the highest number of fluent speakers are Afrikaans and English .
In terms of linguistic classification , the official languages include two  west-germanic भाषाएं ( अंग्रेज़ी और  Afrikaans ) and nine Bantu languages .
Four of these are Nguni  भाषाएं ( ज़ुलू , ख़ोसा , स्वाति  and Ndebele ) and three are Sotho–Tswana languages ( Northern Sotho , Southern Sotho and Tswana ) .
Tsonga is a  tswa–ronga भाषा  .
South African Sign Language is a distinct though incompletely emerged  नेशनल मानक भाषा जिससे भी subsumes  a cluster of semi-standardised dialects .
Aluminium nitrate is a salt of aluminium and nitric acid , existing normally as a crystalline hydrate , most  commonly as एल्युमिनियम नाइट्रेट  nonahydrate , Al ( NO3 ) 3·9H2O .
The New York Jets are a professional  फ़ुटबॉल टोली headquartered  in Florham Park , New Jersey , representing the New York metropolitan area .
The team is a member of the Eastern Division of the American Football  सम्मेलन ( afc ) in the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग ( एनएफएल ) .
In a unique arrangement for the league , the Jets share MetLife Stadium in East  रदरफोर्ड , नई जर्सी साथ the नई यॉर्क  Giants .
The  मताधिकार is legally और corporately पंजीकृत  as New York Jets , LLC .
the टोली थी संस्थापित  in 1959 as the Titans of New York , an original member of the American Football League ; later , the franchise joined the NFL in the AFL–NFL merger .
the टोली began to खेल  in 1960 at the Polo Grounds .
Under new ownership , the current name was adopted in  1963 और the मताधिकार थी relocated to shea स्टेडियम in 1964  and then to the Meadowlands Sports Complex in 1984 .
The Jets advanced to the playoffs for the first time  in 1968 और गई on to compete in सुपर कटोरी  III where they defeated the Baltimore Colts , becoming the first AFL team to defeat an NFL club in an AFL-NFL World Championship Game .
Since 1968 , the Jets have appeared in the playoffs thirteen times ,  और in the afc चैंपियनशिप खेल चार  times , most recently losing to the Pittsburgh Steelers in 2010 .
However , the Jets have never returned to the Super Bowl , making them one of three NFL teams to win their lone Super Bowl appearance ,  साथ साथ the नई ऑरलियन्स संतो और tampa  Bay Buccaneers .
The team 's  प्रशिक्षण सुविधा , अटलांटिक  Health Jets Training Center , which opened in 2008 , is located in Florham Park .
The team currently holds their annual training camp sessions on the campus of the  राज्य विश्वविद्यालयों of नई यॉर्क at cortland in cortland , नई  York while holding occasional sessions at the Florham Park complex .
psilocybe semilanceata
Psilocybin mushrooms , also known as psychedelic mushrooms , are  fungi कि contain psychoactive indole alkaloids  .
वहीँ हैं अनेक colloquial शर्तें  for psilocybin mushrooms , the most common being shrooms and magic mushrooms .
Biological genera containing psilocybin mushrooms include Agrocybe , Conocybe , Copelandia ,  galerina , gerronema , gymnopilus , hypholoma  , Inocybe , Mycena , Panaeolus , Pluteus , and Psilocybe .
There are approximately 190 species of  psilocybin मशरूम और सबसे of उन्हें पतन in the genus psilocybe  .
psilocybin मशरूम have संभावित महरूम प्रयुक्त चूंकि  prehistoric times and may have been depicted in rock art .
Many cultures have used these  मशरूम in धार्मिक  rites .
In modern Western society they are used recreationally for their  साइकेडेलिक प्रभाव  .
Recent studies done at Imperial College London and Johns Hopkins  स्कूल of आयुर्विज्ञान conclude कि जब प्रयुक्त properly , psilocybin  acts as an anti-depressant as suggested by fMRI brain scans .
Alaska ( ) is a state in the United  राज्य , situated in the उत्तरपश्चिम extremity of the उत्तर अमरीकी महाद्वीप , साथ  the international boundary with Canada to the east , the Arctic Ocean to the north , and the Pacific Ocean to the west and south , with Russia further west across the Bering Strait .
Alaska is the  largest राज्य in the संयुक्त राज्य by क्षेत्रफल , the 4th  least populous and the least densely populated of the 50 United States .
लगभग हाफ of अलास्का 's 731,449 निवासियों सजीव भीतर  the Anchorage metropolitan area .
Alaska 's economy  is वर्चस्व by the आयल , प्राकृतिक गैस , और फ़िशिंग  industries ; it has these resources in abundance .
अलास्का थी खरीदा इससे रूस on कूच 30 , 1867 , लिये $ 7.2 लाख  ( $ adjusted for inflation ) at approximately two cents per acre ( $ 4.74/km2 ) .
the जमीन गई through अनेक प्रशासनिक परिवर्तन पहले बनने an व्यवस्थित  ( or incorporated ) territory on May 11 , 1912 , and the 49th state of the U.S. on January 3 , 1959 .
The name `` Alaska '' ( Аляска ) was already introduced in the Russian colonial period , when it was used only for the peninsula and is derived from  the aleut alaxsxaq , अर्थ `` the मेनलैंड '' or , अधिक वस्तुतः  , `` the object towards which the action of the sea is directed '' .
It is also known as Alyeska , the `` great land '' , an Aleut  शब्द निकला इससे the वही  root .
The 101  फ्रेंच विभाग हैं विभाजित into 342 arrondissements  , which may be translated into English as districts .
The capital of  an arrondissement/district  is called a subprefecture .
When an arrondissement contains the prefecture ( capital ) of the department , that prefecture is the  पूंजी of the arrondissement , एक्टिंग दोनो as a प्रीफ़ेक्चर  and as a subprefecture .
arrondissements हैं further  divided into cantons and communes .
The vagina ( from Latin vāgīna , literally `` sheath '' or `` scabbard `` ) is a tubular tract which is a sex organ and has two main  कृत्यों ; यौन मैथुन  and childbirth .
In humans , this passage leads from the opening of the  भग to the गर्भाशय ( गर्भ ) , लकिन  the vaginal tract ends at the cervix .
Unlike men , who have only one genital orifice ,  महिलाओं have दो , the urethra और the योनि  .
The vaginal  खोलने is much larger than the urethral  opening , and both openings are protected by the labia .
The inner mould of  the योनि रै a foldy बनावट जिससे can बनाएँ  friction for the penis during intercourse .
During  arousal , the योनि gets नम to सुकर  the entrance of the penis .
The  latinate बहुवचन `` vaginae  '' is rarely used in English .
Colloquially , the  शब्द योनि is प्रायः प्रयुक्त to refer to the  vulva or to the female genitals in general .
However , by its dictionary and anatomical definitions , vagina refers  exclusively to the विशिष्ट  internal structure .
The  सिनसिनाटी लाल हैं a प्रमुख लीग  Baseball team based in Cincinnati , Ohio .
They are members of the National  लीग सेंट्रल प्रभाग  .
Established in 1881 as an independent club , the  टोली became a चार्टर सदस्य of the  American Association in 1882 , and joined the National League in 1890 .
The club  traditionally traces इसके उत्पत्ति to बेसबॉल  's first openly professional team in 1869 .
The Reds have won five  संसार श्रेणी शीर्षक , एक अमरीकी  Association pennant , nine National League pennants and ten division titles .
The Reds played in the National League West between  1969 और 1993 और have महरूम in the नेशनल  League Central since 1994 .
Since 2003 , the Reds have played at Great  अमरीकी बॉल पार्क , निर्मित अगला to उनके घर  from 1970 to 2002 , Riverfront Stadium .
Bob  castellini रै स्वामित्व the  Cincinnati Reds since 2006 .
A  शरारत बदबू बमबारी  .
A stink bomb is a device  designed to बनाएँ an अप्रिय  smell .
They range in effectiveness from simple pranks to military grade  malodorants or riot कंट्रोल रासायनिक  agents .
The  गिनीज किताब  of Records lists two smelliest substances .
One is  `` us सरकारी मानक बाथरूम malodor '' ; a मिश्रण  of eight chemicals with a stench resembling human feces , only much stronger , designed to test the efficacy of deodorizers and air fresheners .
Another one , `` Who me ? `` ,  is a मिश्रण of पाँच sulfur-containing  chemicals and smells like rotting food and carcasses .
The  कहावत `` a चित्र is लायक a हजार  words '' refers to the notion that a complex idea can be conveyed with just a single still image .
it भी aptly characterizes एक of the  main goals of visualization , namely making it possible to absorb large amounts of data quickly .
The  अभिव्यक्ति ``  Use a picture .
It 's worth a thousand words . '' appears in a 1911 newspaper article quoting newspaper  एडिटर आर्थर ब्रिसबेन discussing पत्रकारिता और publicity  .
1913  समाचारपत्र  advertisement
A similar phrase , `` One Look Is Worth A Thousand Words '' , appears in a 1913 newspaper  विज्ञापन लिये the  Piqua Auto Supply House of Piqua , Ohio .
An early use of the exact phrase appears in an 1918 newspaper  विज्ञापन लिये the सैन अंतोनियो लाइट जिससे says : एक of the स्वदेश 's महानतम सम्पादक says : एक चित्र is  Worth a Thousand Words The San Antonio Light 's Pictorial Magazine of the War Exemplifies the truth of the above statement -- judging from the warm reception it has received at the hands of the Sunday Light readers .
It is believed by some that the modern use of the phrase stems from an article by Fred R.  बर्नार्ड in the विज्ञापन व्यापार जर्नल मुद्रक ' स्याही , promoting the उपयोग of बिंब  in advertisements that appeared on the sides of streetcars .
The  दिसम्बर 8 , 1921 समस्या carries  an ad entitled , `` One Look is Worth A Thousand Words . ''
another ad by बर्नार्ड appears in the कूच 10  , 1927 issue with the phrase `` One Picture Worth Ten Thousand Words , '' where it is labeled a Chinese proverb ( 一圖勝萬言 ) .
The Home Book of Proverbs , Maxims ,  और परिचित वाक्यांश उद्धरण बर्नार्ड as saying  he called it `` a Chinese proverb , so that people would take it seriously . ''
Soon after , the proverb would become popularly  attributed to कन्फ्यूशियस  .
The discussion of `` One Picture Worth Thousand Words ''  बनाम `` एक चित्र लायक टेन हजार शब्द '' wan येन i hua और 10.000 मील  worth 10.000 books is cited in Information graphics where the concept of many in different disciplines and cultures .
A  चित्र is लायक a हजार  words
Despite this modern origin of the popular  phrase , the भावना रै महरूम expressed  by earlier writers .
For example the Russian writer Ivan Turgenev wrote ( in Fathers and Sons in 1862 ) , `` A picture  shows me at a glance कया it  takes dozens of pages of a book to expound . ''
Computer programmer and author  फ्रेड ब्रूक्स makes an विपरीत बयान regarding  programming in The Mythical Man-Month : `` Show me your flowcharts and conceal your tables , and I shall continue to be mystified .
Show me your tables , and I won’t usually need your  flowcharts ; they’ll be  obvious . ''
The phrase has  भी महरूम spoofed by जॉन मैकार्थी , the प्रसिद्ध कंप्यूटर वैज्ञानिक , to  make the opposite point : `` As the Chinese say , 1001 words is worth more than a picture . ''
A season is a subdivision of the year ,  चिह्नित by परिवर्तन in मौसम , पारिस्थितिकी , और घंटों of  daylight .
Seasons result from  the वार्षिक क्रान्ति of the धरती  around the Sun and the tilt of the Earth 's axis relative to the plane of revolution .
In temperate and polar regions , the seasons are marked by changes in the intensity of sunlight that reaches the Earth 's  सतह , विसंगतियाँ of जिससे may  cause animals to go into hibernation or to migrate , and plants to be dormant .
During May , June and July , the northern hemisphere is exposed  to अधिक सीधा धूप क्युकी the गोलार्ध चेहरों  the sun .
The same is true of the southern  गोलार्ध in नवम्बर , दिसम्बर और जनवरी  .
It is the tilt of the Earth that causes the Sun to be higher in the sky  दौरान the गर्मियाँ महीने जिससे increases the  solar flux .
However , due to seasonal lag , June , July and August are the hottest months in the northern  गोलार्ध और दिसम्बर , जनवरी और फ़रवरी  are the hottest months in the southern hemisphere .
In temperate and subpolar regions , generally four  पंचांग -आधारd सीज़न ( साथ उनके adjectives ) हैं पहचाना  : spring ( vernal ) , summer ( estival ) , autumn ( autumnal ) and winter ( hibernal ) .
However , ecologists mostly use a six season model for temperate climate regions  कि शामिल pre-spring ( prevernal ) और लेट गर्मियाँ ( serotinal ) as पृथक सीज़न साथ साथ  the traditional four .
Hot regions have two or three seasons ; the rainy ( or  गीला , or मानसून ) ऋतु और the शुष्क ऋतु  , and in some tropical areas , a cool or mild season .
In some  भाग of the संसार , खास `` सीज़न '' हैं loosely पारिभाषित आधारित  on important events such as a hurricane season , tornado season or a wildfire season .
The  छह ecological  seasons
The four calendar seasons  , चित्रित in an  ancient Roman mosaic from Tunisia
Dutch  निर्यात  in 2006
At the time of writing the Netherlands is the 17th largest  अर्थव्यवस्था of the  world .
(  देखिए : सूची  of countries by GDP ( nominal ) )
GDP per capita is roughly $ 42,000 which puts it in  the शीर्ष 10 of richest राष्ट्र in the संसार ( देखिए : सूची of देशों by  GDP ( PPP ) per capita ) .
between 1996 और 2000 सालाना आर्थिक  growth ( GDP ) averaged over 4 % , well above the European average .
Growth  slowed considerably  in 2001-05 as part of the global economic slowdown .
2006 and 2007 however showed economic  विकास of 3.4 % और 3.9 %  .
The Dutch economy was hit considerably by the ongoing global  वित्तीय संकट और the ensuing  European debt crisis .
अनेक बैंको गई दिवालिया , और  a number of others had to receive governmental aid .
In 2009 the economy  अस्वीकृत साथ 3.5 % , followed by दो सालो of mild  growth .
The Dutch economy is currently in a recession again ,  साथ an आर्थिक मनाही  of 0.5 % in 2012 .
महंगाई is  at 3.2 % in February 2013 .
Unemployment has been  अपेक्षाकृत कम compared to अन्य eu राष्ट्र लिये दशकों लकिन बाद  mid-2012 it has seen a fast increase and in February 2013 it has hit 7.7 % .
The Netherlands managed to maintain its AAA rating at  तनिक जबतक कूच 2013 according to the तीन  major credit rating agencies .
Historically , the Dutch introduced and invented the stock market by  the merchandise व्यापार through  Dutch West India Company .
The Netherlands is a founding member of the European Union ,  the oecd और the संसार  Trade Organization .
Loyal to the Game is the tenth studio album  और छठे स्टुडियो एल्बम  by Tupac Shakur .
it contains remixes of previously  unreleased music recorded by Shakur before his death in 1996 .
Released in the United States on December 14 , 2004 ( December 12 in the United  किंगडम ) , वफ़ादार to the खेल थी  produced by Eminem .
The original panel of The View ; Meredith Vieira , Star Jones , Debbie  matenopoulos और बारबरा walters  in 1997 .
The View is an American talk show broadcast on ABC that debuted in  1997 as भाग of the संजाल 's दिन प्रोग्रामिंग  block .
Created by Barbara Walters and Bill Geddie , who both also serve as the show 's  कार्यपालिका निर्माता , the कार्यक्रम सुविधाएँ a फलक  of women as co-hosts .
Along with Walters , the  वर्तमान फलक शामिल whoopi गोल्डबर्ग , जो  serves as the moderator , Joy Behar , Elisabeth Hasselbeck , and Sherri Shepherd .
International versions of the program  हैं aired in अनेक देशों  .
As of the 2012–13 season , its 16th ,  the दृश्य is the fourth-longest कार्यशील नेशनल दिन बात दिखाएँ in इतिहास , पीछे the फिल donahue  Show ( 29 ) , the variously-named Live !
programs ( 25 ) , and The  ओपरा विनफ्रे दिखाएँ (  25 ) .
Prunus virginiana , commonly called  bitter-berry , chokecherry , वर्जिनिया बर्ड चेरी और पश्चिमी chokecherry ( भी ब्लैक chokecherry लिये P. virginiana var . demissa  ) , is a species of bird cherry ( Prunus subgenus Padus ) native to North America ; the natural historic range of P. virginiana includes most of the continent , except for the far north and far south .
Los Angeles International Airport  is the प्राथमिक विमानक्षेत्र सेवारत the वृहद लॉस एंजिल्स  Area , the second-most populated metropolitan area in the United States .
It is  सबसे प्रायः referred to by इसके iata विमानक्षेत्र  code LAX , with the letters pronounced individually .
LAX is located in southwestern Los Angeles  साथ the प्रशांत coast in the पड़ोस of westchester , इससे the शहर कोर और is the प्राथमिक विमानक्षेत्र  of Los Angeles World Airports ( LAWA ) , an agency of the Los Angeles city government formerly known as the Department of Airports .
In 2011 , LAX was the sixth busiest airport in the world after Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International  विमानक्षेत्र , बीजिंग पूंजी अंतरराष्ट्रीय विमानक्षेत्र , लंदन हीथ्रो विमानक्षेत्र  , Chicago O'Hare International Airport , and Tokyo Haneda International Airport with 61,862,052 passengers .
The airport holds the claim  लिये `` the संसार 's व्यस्ततम उत्पत्ति और गंतव्य ( o & d ) विमानक्षेत्र '' in 2011  that involves non-connecting passenger traffic .
It is also  the तभी विमानक्षेत्र to रैंक among  the top five U.S. airports for both passenger and cargo traffic .
LAX is the busiest airport in the Greater Los Angeles Area , but other airports including Bob Hope  विमानक्षेत्र , जॉन वेन विमानक्षेत्र , long बीच विमानक्षेत्र , la/ontario अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Airport , and Palm Springs International Airport also serve the region .
LAX is  भी the व्यस्ततम विमानक्षेत्र in कैलिफ़ोर्निया और the वेस्ट coast of the संयुक्त राज्य in शर्तें of उड़ान परिचालन  , passenger traffic and air cargo activity , leading it to be referred to as the `` Gateway to the Pacific Rim `` .
Peyton Williams Manning ( born  कूच 24 , 1976 ) is an अमरीकी  football quarterback for the Denver Broncos of the National Football League ( NFL ) .
He played for the  इंडियानापोलिस कोल्टस लिये 14 सीज़न  from 1998 to 2011 .
He is the son of  पूर्व एनएफएल क्वार्टरबैक आर्ची मैनिंग  and an elder brother of New York Giants quarterback Eli Manning .
Manning played college football for the University of Tennessee , leading the Volunteers  to the 1997 सेक चैंपियनशिप in उसके  senior season .
However , No . 3 Tennessee lost to the No . 2 Nebraska Cornhuskers 42-17 in the Orange Bowl  giving नेब्रास्का और tom ओसबोर्न उनके 3rd नेशनल  championship in 4 years .
He was chosen by the Indianapolis Colts with  the पहला overall चुनें in the  1998 NFL Draft .
From 1998 to 2010 , he led the Colts to eight ( seven AFC South and one AFC East ) division championships , two AFC championships , and to  a सुपर कटोरी चैंपियनशिप (  Super Bowl XLI ) .
He has won a record four league most valuable player awards , was the most valuable  खिलाड़ी of सुपर कटोरी xli , रै महरूम नामित to बारह प्रो प्याले , रै बारह 4,000-yard गुजर सीज़न , और is  the Indianapolis Colts ' all-time leader in passing yards ( 54,828 ) and touchdown passes ( 399 ) .
In 2009 , he was named the  बेहतरीन खिलाड़ी in the एनएफएल और फॉक्स खेल  along with Sports Illustrated named him the NFL player of the decade of the 2000s .
In May 2011 , he underwent neck surgery to alleviate neck pain and  भुजा कमज़ोरी he dealt साथ दौरान the पिछला few सीज़न पहले हस्ताक्षर a five-year  , $ 90 million contract extension with the Colts in July 2011 .
Manning had hoped to play in the 2011  ऋतु , लकिन in सितंबर 2011 , he underwent a much अधिक गंभीर  second surgery : a level one cervical fusion procedure .
Manning had never missed an NFL game in his career , but  थी मजबूर to मिस the संपूर्ण 2011 ऋतु  .
he थी released by the कोल्टस on कूच 7 , 2012 , और बाद  an almost two-week period where he visited with and worked out for several NFL teams , he signed with the Denver Broncos on March 20 , 2012 .
Manning 's pre-snap routine has earned him the nickname , `` The  शेरिफ '' और is एक of the सबसे recognizable और parodied  in the NFL .
The  इंडियानापोलिस कोल्टस ' लगभग विशेष उपयोग of the hurry-up ठोकर led to मैनिंग using an सरणी  of gestures and verbal commands to call the play at the line of scrimmage rather than in the huddle .
The America  मीनार of the अमरीकी सामान्य  Center , the headquarters of Baker Hughes
Baker  ह्यूजेस is एक of the संसार 's largest oilfield  services companies .
It operates in  over 90 देशों , providing the आयल और गैस उद्योग साथ उत्पाद  and services for drilling , formation evaluation , completion , production and reservoir consulting .
Baker Hughes has its headquarters in the  अमेरिका मीनार in the अमरीकी सामान्य  Center in Neartown , Houston .
Baker Hughes Incorporated was formed when  बेकर अंतरराष्ट्रीय और ह्यूजेस  Tool Company merged in 1987 .
Baker Hughes operates worldwide with major offices in  लिवरपूल , संयुक्त किंगडम ; सिंगापुर ; दुबई ; a शोध और मेंटेनेंस  facility in Celle , Germany ; Lafayette , Louisiana ; Houston , Texas ; Pescara , Italy ; and Kuala Lumpur , Malaysia .
the कम्पनी is administered broadly in दो बांटती : the पूर्वी गोलार्ध साथ पाँच regions ( यूरोपीय , अफ़्रीकी , the मध्य ईस्ट , एशिया प्रशांत और  Russia/Caspian ) and the western hemisphere with four regions ( Canada , US Land , US Gulf , and Latin America ) .
Each of these  regions is subdivided into  markets .
The United States one- cent coin , commonly known as a penny , is a unit of currency  equaling एक one-hundredth of a संयुक्त राज्य डालर  .
The cent  's प्रतीक is  ¢ .
Its obverse has  प्रदर्शित the प्रोफ़ाइल of अध्यक्ष अब्राहम  Lincoln since 1909 , the centennial of his birth .
इससे 1959 ( the sesquicentennial of lincoln  's birth ) to 2008 , the reverse featured the Lincoln Memorial .
Four different reverse designs in 2009 honored Lincoln 's 200th birthday and a new ,  स्थाई रिवर्स – the संघ शील्ड – थी introduced  in 2010 .
The  सिक्का is 0.75 इंच  ( 19.05 mm ) in diameter and 0.061 inches ( 1.55 mm ) in thickness .
The U.S. Mint 's official name for a penny is `` '' and the U.S.  राजकोष 's आधिकारिक नाम is `` एक cent  piece '' .
The colloquial term penny derives from the British coin of the  वही नाम , the pre-decimal संस्करण of जिससे था a समान मान  .
In American  अंग्रेज़ी , कौड़ी is the बहुवचन रूप , अन्य  plural forms pence and pee ( standard use in British English ) are not used .
As of 2012 , it costs the U.S. Mint 2.00 cents to make a cent  क्युकी of the लागत of  materials and production .
This figure includes the Mint’s fixed  components लिये वितरण  and fabrication , estimated at $ 13 million in FY 2011 .
It also includes Mint overhead allocated to the  पैनी , जिससे थी $ 17.7  million for 2011 .
Fixed costs and overhead  होता have to be अवशोषित by अन्य circulating  coins without the penny .
The loss  in profitability  due to producing the one cent coin in the United States for the year of 2012 was $ 58,000,000 .
This was a slight decrease from 2011 , the year  पहले , जिससे  had a production loss of $ 60,200,000 .
or more  specifically , हैं शोभायमान किस्में of domesticated आम कार्प  ( Cyprinus carpio ) that are kept for decorative purposes in outdoor koi ponds or water gardens .
कोई किस्में हैं विशिष्ट by coloration  , patterning , and scalation .
Some of  the प्रमुख रंगों हैं  white , black , red , yellow , blue , and cream .
The most popular category of koi is the Gosanke , which is made up of the  kohaku , taisho sanshoku  , and Showa Sanshoku varieties .
The American Federation of Government Employees ( AFGE ) is an American labor union representing over 650,000 employees of the federal government , about 5,000 employees of the District of Columbia ,  और a few सौ निजी सेक्टर कर्मचारी , ज़्यादातर  in and around federal facilities .
AFGE is the largest union for civilian , non- postal federal employees and the largest union for District of Columbia employees who report  सीधे to the महापौर ( i.e. ,  outside of D.C. public schools ) .
It is  संबद्ध साथ  the AFL-CIO .
A late  सिल्यूरियन sporangium  .
Green : A  spore tetrad  .
Blue : A spore  bearing a trilete चिह्नित –  the -shaped scar .
the बीजाणुओं  are about 30-35 μm across
The evolution of plants has resulted in increasing levels of  जटिलता , इससे the earliest algal मैट्स , through bryophytes  , lycopods , ferns to the complex gymnosperms and angiosperms of today .
While many of the  समूह जिससे appeared पहले  continue to thrive , especially in the environments in which they evolved , for a time each new grade of organisation became more `` successful '' than its predecessors .
In  the ordovician काल ,  around , the first land plants appeared .
These began to diversify in the late Silurian Period , around , and the results of their diversification are displayed in remarkable detail in an early Devonian fossil  assemblage  from the Rhynie chert .
This chert preserved early plants in  सेल्यूलर विवरण , petrified  in volcanic springs .
By the middle of the  devonian काल , सबसे of the सुविधाएँ recognised in पौधे आज हैं उपस्थित , सहित  roots , leaves and secondary wood ; and , by late Devonian times , seeds had evolved .
Late Devonian plants had thereby reached a degree of sophistication that allowed them to  रूप वनों of लम्बा  trees .
Evolutionary innovation  जारी into the carboniferous काल  and is still ongoing today .
Most  संयंत्र समूह यहूद अपेक्षाकृत unscathed by the permo-triassic  extinction event , although the structures of communities changed .
This may have set the scene for the  रूप of the flowering पौधे in the triassic  ( ~ ) , and their later diversification in the Cretaceous and Paleogene .
The latest major group of plants to evolve were the grasses , which  became महत्वपूर्ण in the mid-paleogene  , from around .
The grasses , as well as many other groups ,  विकसित नई mechanisms of चयापचय to जीवित the कम और  warm , dry conditions of the tropics over the last .
the जीतना सुपर  Bowl team receives the Vince Lombardi Trophy .
The Super Bowl is an annual American football game  कि determines the चैंपियन of the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल  League ( NFL ) .
The contest is held in an American city that is chosen three to four years beforehand ,  प्रायः in warm-weather or domed साइट  .
Since 1971 , the winner of the American Football Conference ( AFC )  चैंपियनशिप खेल रै faced the विजेता of the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल सम्मेलन  ( NFC ) Championship Game in the culmination of the NFL playoffs .
Before the 1970 merger between the American Football League ( AFL ) and the National  फ़ुटबॉल लीग ( एनएफएल ) , the दो लीग मिले in चार  such contests .
The first two were known as  the `` afl-nfl संसार चैंपियनशिप  Game . ''
Super Bowl III in  1969 थी the पहला ऐसे खेल कि carried the `` सुपर कटोरी  '' moniker , the names `` Super Bowl I `` and `` Super Bowl II `` were retroactively applied to the first two games .
The NFC  /nfL लीड in सुपर कटोरी विन्स  with 25 , while the AFC /AFL has won 22 .
Eighteen different franchises , including teams that  relocated to another नगर , have जीती the सुपर  Bowl .
The Pittsburgh Steelers have won the most Super Bowls with six championships ( record 6–2 ) , while both the Dallas Cowboys and San Francisco 49ers  have पाँच विन्स प्रत्येक ( cowboys 5–3 ;  49ers 5–1 ) .
डलास और पिट्सबर्ग have the सबसे सुपर कटोरी  appearances with eight , while the Buffalo Bills have the most consecutive appearances with four losses in a row from 1990 to 1993 .
The New England Patriots  , डेनवर broncos और मिनेसोटा वाइकिंग्स have भी खोया a रिकार्ड  four Super Bowls .
Buffalo and  मिनेसोटा हैं दोनो 0–4 , डेनवर is 2–4  and New England is 3–4 .
The record for  लगातार विन्स is दो और is साझा by सात franchises : the 1966-67  Green Bay Packers , the 1972-73 Miami Dolphins , the 1974-75 and 1978-79 Pittsburgh Steelers ( the only team to accomplish this feat twice ) , the 1988-89 San Francisco 49ers , the 1992-93 Dallas Cowboys , the 1997-98 Denver Broncos , and the 2003-04 New England Patriots .
The  तभी टोली साथ अनेक सुपर कटोरी दिखावे और no  losses is the Baltimore Ravens , who in winning Super Bowl XLVII unseated and replaced the 49ers in that position .
Four current NFL teams have never appeared in a Super Bowl , including franchise relocations and renaming : the Cleveland Browns , Detroit Lions , Jacksonville Jaguars , and Houston Texans ,  हालांकि दोनो the भूरा और शेर था जीती एनएफएल चैंपियनशिप  games prior to the creation of the Super Bowl .
Martin  काउंटी is a काउंटी स्तिथ  in the U.S. state of Texas .
As of the  2010 जनसांख्यिकी , इसके जनसांख्यिकी  was 4,799 .
इसके सीट is  Stanton .
The county is  नामित लिये wylie मार्टिन , an जल्दी  settler .
Martin County is  एक of 30 निषेध , or entirely  dry , counties in the state of Texas .
Alkaline phosphatase ( ALP , ALKP ) ( ) is a hydrolase enzyme responsible for removing phosphate groups from many types of molecules ,  सहित nucleotides , प्रोटीन , और  alkaloids .
The process  of निकालना the  phosphate group is called dephosphorylation .
As  the नाम suggests  , alkaline phosphatases are most effective in an alkaline environment .
It is  sometimes प्रयुक्त synonymously as मौलिक  phosphatase .
Triticale ( × Triticosecale ) , ( ) is a hybrid of wheat (  triticum ) और rye ( secale ) पहला करवाया in laboratories  during the late 19th century .
the अनाज थी originally  bred in Scotland and Sweden .
Commercially available triticale is almost always a second generation  संकर , i.e. , a क्रॉस between दो kinds of प्राथमिक  ( first cross ) triticales .
As a rule , triticale combines the  उपज संभावित और अनाज विशेषता of गेहूं साथ the बीमारी  and environmental tolerance ( including soil conditions ) of rye .
Only recently has it been  विकसित into a commercially सुगठित  crop .
Depending on  the cultivar , triticale can  more or less resemble either of its parents .
It is grown mostly  लिये forage or चारा , हालांकि कुछ triticale-based भोजन can be खरीदा at  health food stores or are to be found in some breakfast cereals .
जब क्रासिंग गेहूं और rye , गेहूं  is used as the female parent and rye as the male parent ( pollen donor ) .
The resulting hybrid is sterile ,  और जरूर be treated साथ colchicine to  induce polyploidy and thus the ability to reproduce itself .
The primary producers of triticale are  कैंडल , जर्मनी ,  France , Belarus and Australia .
In 2009 , according to the Food and Agriculture Organization ( FAO ) ,  15.0 लाख टन यहूद harvested in 29  countries across the world .
The triticale hybrids are all amphidiploid , which means the plant is  द्विगुणित लिये दो genomes निकला इससे अलग प्रजाति  .
In other  शब्द , triticale is  an allotetraploid .
In  पहले सालो , सबसे कार्य थी  done on octoploid triticale .
Different ploidy  स्तर have  been created and evaluated over time .
The tetraploids showed little  वादा , लकिन hexaploid  triticale was successful enough to find commercial application .
The CIMMYT triticale improvement program wanted to improve food  उत्पादन और पोषण in विकासशील देशों  .
Triticale has potential in the production of bread and other food products , such  as कुकीज़ , पास्ता , पिज़्ज़ा आटा  and breakfast cereals .
The protein content is higher than that of wheat , although the  glutenin भिन्न  is less .
The grain has also been stated to have higher  स्तर of lysine  than wheat .
Assuming increased acceptance , the milling industry will have to adapt to triticale  , as the मिलिंग तकनीकों employed लिये गेहूं हैं  unsuited to triticale .
Sell et al . found triticale could be used as a feed grain , and later research  मिला इसके मंड थी विशेषकर  readily digested .
As a feed grain ,  triticale is already खूब स्थापित  and of high economic importance .
It has received attention  as a संभावित उर्जा क्रॉप , और शोध is फिलहाल होने  conducted on the use of the crop 's biomass in bioethanol production .
`` Puff  , the जादू ड्रैगन '' is a सोंग लिखा by लियोनार्ड lipton  and Peter Yarrow , and made popular by Yarrow 's group Peter , Paul and Mary in a 1963 recording .
The song  हासिल ग्रेट  popularity .
A college football national championship in the  उच्चतम स्तर of कॉलेजिएट खेल in the संयुक्त राज्य , फिलहाल the नेशनल कॉलेजिएट एथलेटिक संघ ( ncaa ) प्रभाग i फ़ुटबॉल  Bowl Subdivision ( FBS ) , is a designation awarded annually by various third-party organizations to their selection ( s ) of the best college football team ( s ) .
प्रभाग i fbs ( formerly प्रभाग i-a )  football is the only NCAA sport in which a yearly champion is not determined by an NCAA sanctioned championship event .
Because the  चैंपियनशिप टोली is नहीं संकल्पित by a ncaa चैंपियनशिप or टूर्नामेंट  event , it is sometimes unofficially referred to as a `` mythical national championship `` .
Since the NCAA , the sport 's  शासी देह , करता नहीं determine  or declare a national champion in this field , determination of such has often engendered controversy .
A  चैंपियनशिप टोली is independently घोषित  by various individuals and organizations , often referred to as `` selectors '' .
These  चुनाव हैं sometimes  at odds with each other .
जबकि the ncaa रै never officially endorsed an  annual championship team , it has documented the choices of several selectors in the official NCAA Football Bowl Subdivision Records .
In addition , various third party analysts have  independently प्रकाशित उनके अपना सूचियाँ of कया वे  have determined to be the most legitimate selections for each season .
These are also often at odds with each other as well as individual school 's claims on national championships ,  जिससे , लिये कोई particular ऋतु , may or may नहीं correlate to the चयन प्रकाशित  elsewhere .
Currently , two widely recognized national champions selectors are the Associated Press , which conducts a poll of football sportswriters , and the USA Today Coaches ' Poll , a poll of American Football Coaches  संघ क्रियाशील कोच कि is contractually obligated to नाम the विजेता of the कटोरी चैंपियनशिप श्रेणी चैंपियनशिप  game as its national champion .
The Milwaukee Brewers are a  पेशेवर बेसबॉल टोली आधारित in मिल्वौकी  , Wisconsin .
The team is a member of the Central Division of Major League Baseball 's National  लीग और plays इसके घर खेल  at Miller Park .
The team is so named because of the city 's  संघ साथ the brewing  industry .
The Washington Nationals are a  पेशेवर बेसबॉल टोली  based in Washington , D.C .
The Nationals are a  सदस्य of the ईस्ट प्रभाग of the नेशनल  League of Major League Baseball ( MLB ) .
The team 's home ballpark is Nationals  पार्क , स्तिथ on दक्षिण कैपिटल गली in  Southeast D.C. , near the Anacostia River .
The park opened in  2008 , replacing rfk स्टेडियम  , the team 's home from 2005 to 2007 .
The Nationals ' name derives from the former  वॉशिंगटन बेसबॉल टोली कि था the वही नाम  ( used interchangeably with Senators ) .
Their nickname is `` the Nats '' —a shortened  संस्करण कि थी भी प्रयुक्त  by the old D.C. teams .
An expansion franchise , the club was founded in as  the मॉन्ट्रियल expos ,  the first major league team in Canada .
They were based in Montreal , Quebec , and played their home  खेल at jarry पार्क स्टेडियम और बाद  in Olympic Stadium .
In , the Expos won a division championship , won their first-ever playoff  श्रेणी by defeating the फिलाडेल्फिया फ़िलीज़ , 3–2 , और उन्नत to the नेशनल लीग चैंपियनशिप  Series , where they would go on to lose to the Los Angeles Dodgers , 3–2 , in their only postseason appearance during the strike-shortened season .
the expos था उनके उच्चतम जीतना प्रतिशत in  the strike-shortened season of , when the team had the best record in baseball .
The team 's subsequent  shedding of खिलाड़ी caused प्रशंसक  interest to drop off .
After the  2001 ऋतु , एमएलबी माना  revoking the team 's franchise , along with either the Minnesota Twins or the Tampa Bay Devil Rays .
After being purchased by MLB in 2002 , the team was moved before the  ऋतु to वॉशिंगटन और renamed the नागरिकों , the  first relocation since the second Washington Senators moved to Arlington , Texas , and became the Texas Rangers in .
The Nationals are one of two MLB franchises , and the only one in  the नेशनल लीग , कि रै never निभाई in a संसार श्रेणी ( the सिएटल मैरीनेर्स  are the other ) .
A contingent fee ( in the United States ) or conditional fee ( in  इंग्लैण्ड और वेल्स ) is कोई शुल्क लिये सेवाएं provided जहाँ the शुल्क is देय तभी if वहीँ is  a favourable result .
In the law , it is defined as a `` fee charged for a lawyer 's services only if  the मुकदमा is कामयाब or is favorably  settled out of court ... .
Contingent fees are usually calculated as a  प्रतिशत of the क्लाएंट 's जाल रिकवरी  . ''
In the English legal system , it is  generally referred to as no जीत  no fee .
A  सशर्त शुल्क अनुबंध between  a law firm and a client .
The usual form of this agreement is that the  solicitor होगा लो a विधि मामला on the समझना  that if lost , no payment is made .
however , if the मामला is जीती  , the lawyer will be entitled to the normal fee based on hourly billing , plus a success fee .
The success fee in  इंग्लैण्ड जरूर be as a प्रतिशत  no greater than 100 % of the normal fee .
This contrasts with the contingency fee in the US , which gives the  कामयाब attorney a प्रतिशत of the क्षतिपूर्ति awarded in एहसान of उसके क्लाएंट .
This makes it easier for the  ग़रीब to pursue उनके सिविल अधिकारों चूंकि वरना ,  to sue someone for a tort , one must first be wealthy enough to pursue such litigation in the first place .
However , because of the high risk , few attorneys will  लो मामले on a आकस्मिकता आधार जबतक  they feel the case has good merit .
According to a 2004 book by law professor Herbert  kritzer , निर्भर शुल्क यहूद अनुमत as of कि साल in the following देशों : ऑस्ट्रेलिया , ब्राज़ील  , Canada , the Dominican Republic , France , Greece , Ireland , Japan , New Zealand , the United Kingdom and the United States .
They are also allowed  in निजी चोट  actions in Lithuania .
Recently , they have been allowed in  बेल्जियम as खूब .
A Convocation (  लैटिन 'calling साथ ' , translating the यूनानी  ecclesia ) is a group of people formally assembled for a special purpose .
Sons of Anarchy is a television  नाटक श्रेणी निर्मित by कर्ट sutter परिचय the जीवनदान of a close-knit गैरकानूनी मोटरसाइकिल  club operating in Charming , a fictional town in California 's Central Valley .
The show centers on protagonist Jackson `` Jax '' Teller  ( चार्ली hunnam ) , the then-vice अध्यक्ष of  the club , who begins questioning the club and himself .
Sons  of अराजकता premiered on सितंबर  3 , 2008 , on cable network FX .
The  तीसरा ऋतु of the श्रेणी आकर्षित an औसत of 4.9 लाख दर्शक प्रति सप्ताह , बनाना it fx 's उच्चतम  rated series ever , surpassing FX 's other hits The Shield , Nip/Tuck , and Rescue Me .
On February 3 , 2012 ,  बेटे of अराजकता थी नवीनीकृत लिये दो  additional seasons , a fifth and a sixth .
Those involved in the production of the series imply that a seventh and  फाइनल ऋतु is निर्माता कर्ट sutter 's  plan .
The Grímsvötn sub-glacial lakes ( ; vötn = `` waters '' , singular : ) and  the ज्वालामुखी of the वही नाम हैं in south-east आइसलैंड  .
They are in the highlands of Iceland at the  northwestern पक्ष of the vatnajökull  ice-cap .
The  झीलों हैं  at , at an elevation of .
Beneath the lakes is  the मैग्मा  chamber of the Grímsvötn volcano .
grímsvötn is a basaltic ज्वालामुखी जिससे रै the उच्चतम फटना आवृत्ति of  all the volcanoes in Iceland and has a southwest-northeast-trending fissure system .
The massive climate-impacting Laki fissure eruption of  1783–1784 थी a भाग of the वही फिशर  system .
Grímsvötn was  erupting at the वही समय as laki  during 1783 , but continued to erupt until 1785 .
Because most of the volcano lies underneath  vatnajökull , सबसे of इसके eruptions have  been subglacial and the interaction of magma and meltwater from the ice causes phreatomagmatic explosive activity .
On 21 May 2011 at 19:25 UTC , an eruption began , with high  plumes accompanied by अनेक भूकंप , resulting in रद्दीकरण of 900 फ़्लाइट in आइसलैंड  , and in the United Kingdom , Greenland , Germany , Ireland and Norway on 22–25 May .
Until 25 May the  फटना स्केल था महरूम larger  than that of the 2010 eruption of Eyjafjallajökull .
The eruption stopped at 02:40 UTC on 25 May 2011 , although there was some explosive activity from the tephra vents affecting  तभी the क्षेत्रफल around the crater  .
Vetting is the process of performing a background check on  किसी पहले offering उन्हें नियुक्ति , डाक्टरेट an पुरस्कार  , etc .
A prospective person  or प्रोजेक्ट may be vetted  before making a hiring decision .
In addition , in intelligence gathering ,  एसेट हैं vetted to determine  their usefulness .
Former  मुख्यालय और वर्तमान कॉरपोरेट  offices
Caesars Entertainment Corporation ( formerly Harrah 's Entertainment from 1995 to 2010 ) is an American public gaming corporation that owns and  operates over 50 कसीनो , होटल , और सात गोल्फ़ पाठ्यक्रम अंतर्गत अनेक ब्रांड्स  .
The company , based in Paradise , Nevada ,  is the largest गेमिंग कम्पनी in the संसार , साथ सालाना  revenues of $ 8.9 billion ( 2010 ) .
Caesars is a public company , with a joint venture of Apollo Global Management and Texas Pacific Group ownig a  विशाल portion of the स्टेक और blackstone  Group also holding a significant stake .
The name change from `` Harrah 's Entertainment Inc. '' to `` Caesars Entertainment  निगम '' थी बना आधिकारिक on नवम्बर 23  , 2010 .
Harrah 's remains a  कुंजी ब्रांड in the कम्पनी .
On November 5 ,  2010 , harrah 's घोषित an आरंभिक पब्लिक offering  of 31,250,000 shares but retracted this offering on November 19 .
A Permanent Resident in Canada is a person who is not a  कनाडाई नागरिक लकिन जो रै महरूम granted अनुमति  to live and work in Canada without any time limit on his or her stay .
A permanent resident must live in  कनाडा लिये दो सालो आउट of प्रत्येक पाँच or रिस्क खोने  that status .
A  स्थाई निवासी holds अनेक of the वही अधिकारों और जिम्मेदारियों as a कनाडाई  citizen , among others the right to work for any enterprise as well as for the federal or provincial government ( under restriction of access rights to certain regulated professions ) .
The main differences  हैं कि निवासियों  can not :
vote in  चुनावों in कनाडा  ;
चलाएं लिये निर्वाचित  office ;
hold  कनाडाई passports  ;
In addition , they may be allowed  to जुड़ें कनाडा 's हथियारबंद शक्तियां if  the national interest would not be prejudiced .
Permanent residents also risk  प्रत्यर्पण लिये गंभीर अपराधों वचनबद्ध जबकि  resident in Canada .
Permanent residents may apply for Canadian  नागरिकता बाद तीन सालो in कनाडा ; however इस is नहीं अनिवार्य  .
Erica Kane is a  fictional अक्षर इससे the अमरीकी  ABC Daytime soap opera All My Children .
The character was portrayed by actress Susan Lucci from her debut on January 16 , 1970 until the last  ब्रॉडकास्ट टेलीविज़न एपीसोड aired on सितंबर 23 , 2011  .
On February 11 , 2013 , it was announced that Lucci  होगा guest-star on the  Prospect Park 's continuation of All My Children .
in the u.S. , एरिका is माना  to be the most popular character in soap opera history .
Regarding the North-American market , TV Guide calls her ``  unequivocally the सबसे प्रसिद्ध साबुन ओपेरा अक्षर in the इतिहास of  daytime TV '' , and included her in their 2013 list of The 60 Nastiest Villains of All Time .
A graph of the US CPI from 1913 to 2006 ( in blue )  , और इसके प्रतिशत सालाना  change ( in red )
A  उपभोक्ता दाम अनुक्रमणिका ( cpi ) उपायों  changes in the price level of a market basket of consumer goods and services purchased by households .
The CPI in the United States is defined by the Bureau of Labor  आंकडे as `` a माप of the औसत बदलें over समय in the कीमतें सशुल्क by शहरी उपभोक्ता  for a market basket of consumer goods and services . ''
The CPI is a statistical estimate  constructed using the कीमतें of a नमूना of प्रतिनिधि  items whose prices are collected periodically .
Sub-indexes and sub-sub-indexes are computed for  अलग श्रेणी और sub-categories of goods और सेवाएं , होने संयुक्त to उपज  the overall index with weights reflecting their shares in the total of the consumer expenditures covered by the index .
It is one of several price indices calculated by most  नेशनल सांख्यिकीय एजेंसियों  .
The annual percentage  बदलें in a cpi is  used as a measure of inflation .
A CPI can be used to index ( i.e. , adjust for the effect of inflation ) the real value of wages , salaries  , pensions , लिये regulating कीमतें और लिये deflating मौद्रिक  magnitudes to show changes in real values .
In most countries , the CPI is , along with the population census and the USA  नेशनल आय और उत्पाद खाते , एक of the सबसे closely देखी नेशनल  economic statistics .
Knocking on wood , or to touch wood , refers to the apotropaic tradition  in पश्चिमी लोकगीत of वस्तुतः touching/knocking on लकडी , or merely stating कि तुम हैं doing or intend वही  , in order to avoid `` tempting fate `` after making a favourable observation , a boast , or declaration concerning one 's own death .
रॉकर  arm
Generally referred to within the context of the internal combustion engine of automotive , marine ,  मोटरसाइकिल और प्रत्यागमनी विमानन इंजन , the रॉकर  arm is an oscillating lever that conveys radial movement from the cam lobe into linear movement at the poppet valve to open it .
One end is raised and  lowered by a घूर्णन पालि of the camshaft ( either सीधे  or via a tappet ( lifter ) and pushrod ) while the other end acts on the valve stem .
When the camshaft lobe  उठाता the बाहर of the भुजा , the अंदर दबाता  down on the valve stem , opening the valve .
When the outside of the arm is permitted to return due to the  camshafts रोटेशन , the अंदर उदय , allowing the वाल्व वसन्त to बंद  the valve .
The drive  कैम is चलित by  the camshaft .
This pushes the rocker arm up and down about the  trunnion pin or रॉकर शाफ्ट  .
Friction may be reduced at the point of contact with the  वाल्व स्टेम by a रोलर कैम अनुसरणकर्ता  .
A similar arrangement transfers the motion via  another रोलर कैम अनुसरणकर्ता to a दूसरी  rocker arm .
This rotates about the rocker shaft , and transfers  the गति via a tappet  to the poppet valve .
In this case this opens the intake valve  to the बेलन सिर  .
The effective leverage of the arm ( and thus the force it can exert on the valve stem )  is संकल्पित by the रॉकर भुजा अनुपात , the अनुपात of the अलहदा इससे  the rocker arm 's center of rotation to the tip divided by the distance from the center of rotation to the point acted on by the camshaft or pushrod .
Current automotive design favors rocker arm ratios of  परिचय 1.5:1 to 1.8:1  .
However , in the past smaller positive ratios ( the valve lift is greater than the cam lift ) and even negative ratios  ( वाल्व लिफ्ट छोटी than the  cam lift ) have been used .
Many pre-WW2 engines use 1:1 (  न्यूट्रल ) ratios  .
For car engines the rocker arms are  generally स्टील stampings , providing  a reasonable balance of strength , weight and economical cost .
Because the rocker arms are , in part , reciprocating weight , excessive mass especially at the  लीवर ends हद the इंजन 's क्षमता to पहुँचें ऊँची  operating speeds .
`` The Night the Lights Went Out in  जॉर्जिया '' is a दक्षिणी गोथिक सोंग लिखा by songwriter bobby  Russell and performed in 1972 by his then-wife Vicki Lawrence .
Reba McEntire later  covered it in 1991  .
Recorded in late October 1972 in  united/western studios on सूर्यास्त in हॉलीवुड और released कम than दो सप्ताह बाद in नवम्बर 1972  , the song centers around the older brother of the narrator , falsely convicted of and executed for a murder , which the narrator herself has committed .
In postal mail , a return address is an explicit  समावेश of the पता of the  person sending the message .
It provides the recipient ( and sometimes authorized intermediaries ) with a means to determine how to  respond to the प्रेषक of the संदेश if needed  .
The return address need not include a sender 's name , but  चाहिए शामिल पता or p.o . बक्सा विवरण in the वही रास्ता as the डिलीवरी पता  should .
In some countries , the return address is  conventionally स्तिथ in the अपर बाएँ हाथ  corner of the envelope , card , or label .
In the  संयुक्त किंगडम , the वापसी पता is प्रायः  placed on the reverse of the envelope , near the top .
व्यवसायों प्रायः उपयोग लिफाफे  preprinted with a return address .
Many individuals  have चादरें of चिपकने लेबल्स preprinted  with their home address to affix to their correspondence .
Charities  sometimes शामिल ऐसे  sheets in mailshots .
Rolls of Return Address Labels can be purchased from companies that sell personalized labels to provide  individuals an आसान रास्ता to छिलके और स्टिक वापसी  address labels to their envelopes .
The  वापसी पता is  not required on postal mail .
However , lack of a return address prevents the postal service from being  समर्थ to वापसी the मद if it proves undeliverable ; ऐसे as इससे क्षति , postage  due , or invalid destination .
Such mail may thus become  मुर्दे अक्षर मेल  .
Should the return address be of a different state or  देश , the मेल may be routed through  that location for ease of return .
A nerve guidance conduit ( also referred to as an artificial nerve conduit or artificial nerve graft , as opposed to an autograft ) is an  कृत्रिम अर्थात् of guiding axonal regrowth to सुकर तंत्रिका regeneration और is एक of अनेक नैदानिक  treatments for nerve injuries .
When direct suturing of the two stumps of a severed nerve can not be accomplished without tension , the standard  नैदानिक उपचार लिये परिधीय तंत्रिका चोटों  is autologous nerve grafting .
Due to the limited availability of donor tissue and functional recovery in autologous nerve grafting , neural tissue engineering research has focused on the development of bioartificial nerve  मार्गदर्शन conduits as an वैकल्पिक उपचार  , especially for large defects .
Similar techniques are also being explored for nerve repair in the spinal cord but nerve regeneration  in the सेंट्रल बेचैन प्रणाली मुद्राएँ a वृहद चुनौती क्युकी इसके axons do नहीं regenerate appreciably  in their native environment .
The creation of artificial conduits is also known as entubulation because the  तंत्रिका ends और intervening गैप हैं enclosed भीतर a ट्यूब रचित of biological or  synthetic materials .
Whether the conduit is in the form of a biologic tube , synthetic tube or tissue-engineered conduit , it should facilitate neurotropic and neurotrophic communication between  the proximal और distal ends of the तंत्रिका गैप , ब्लाक बाह्य inhibitory कारकों  , and provide a physical guidance for axonal regrowth .
The most basic objective of a nerve  मार्गदर्शन conduit is to combine शारीरिक , रासायनिक  , and biological cues under conditions that will foster tissue formation .
Materials that have been used to make biologic tubes include blood vessels and skeletal muscles , while nonabsorbable and bioabsorbable  सिंथेटिक tubes have महरूम बना इससे silicone और polyglycolide  respectively .
Tissue-engineered nerve guidance conduits are a combination of many elements : scaffold structure , scaffold material , cellular therapies ,  neurotrophic कारकों और biomimetic सामग्री  .
The choice of which physical , chemical and biological cues to use is based on the properties of the nerve  पर्यावरण , जिससे is नाजुक in बनाना the सबसे वांछनीय पर्यावरण लिये axon regeneration  .
The factors that  कंट्रोल सामग्री चयन शामिल biocompatibility  , biodegradability , mechanical integrity , controllability during nerve growth , implantation and sterilization .
हार्डकोर साहूकार is an अमरीकी वास्तविकता टेलीविज़न श्रेणी उत्पादित by rdf यूएसए ( बाद zodiak यूएसए ) और रिचर्ड dominick  Productions for truTV about the day-to-day operations of American Jewelry and Loan , a family-owned pawn shop located at 20450 Greenfield Road , between 8 Mile Road and the John C. Lodge Freeway in Detroit , Michigan .
The series premiered on  अगस्त 16 ,  2010 , delivering two million viewers , setting a record as truTV 's most-watched series premiere ever .
amoxicillin  BP
Amoxicillin ( INN ) , formerly amoxycillin ( BAN ) , and abbreviated amox , is a moderate-spectrum , bacteriolytic , β-lactam antibiotic used  to दावत बैक्टीरियल infections caused by susceptible microorganisms  .
It is usually  the ड्रग of चुनाव भीतर the  class because it is better absorbed , following oral administration , than other β-lactam antibiotics .
Amoxicillin is one of the most  आम एंटीबायोटिक विहित लिये children  .
The drug  became उपलब्धियाँ  in 1972 .
Amoxicillin is susceptible to degradation by β-lactamase -producing bacteria , which are resistant to a broad spectrum of  β-lactam एंटीबायोटिक , ऐसे as पेनिसिलीन .
For this reason , it is often combined with  clavulanic एसिड , a β-lactamase inhibitor  .
This increases effectiveness by  reducing इसके susceptibility to  β-lactamase resistance .
Lyndon  baines जॉनसन ( अगस्त 27 , 1908 – जनवरी 22 , 1973 ) , प्रायः referred  to as LBJ , was the 36th President of the United States ( 1963–1969 ) , a position he assumed after his service as the 37th Vice President of the United States ( 1961–1963 ) .
He is one of only  चार लोगों जो परोसा in सब चार निर्वाचित संघीय कार्यालयों  of the United States : Representative , Senator , Vice President , and President .
Johnson , a Democrat from Texas , served as  a संयुक्त राज्य प्रतिनिधि इससे 1937–1949 और as a सीनेटर इससे 1949–1961  , including six years as United States Senate Majority Leader , two as Senate Minority Leader and two as Senate Majority Whip .
After campaigning unsuccessfully for the Democratic nomination in 1960 , Johnson was asked by  जॉन F. कैनेडी to be उसके कार्यशील mate लिये the 1960 अध्यक्षीय  election .
Johnson succeeded to the presidency following the assassination of John F. Kennedy on November  22 , 1963 , समाप्त कैनेडी 's पद और थी निर्वाचित अध्यक्ष in उसके अपना सही  , winning by a large margin over Barry Goldwater in the 1964 election .
Johnson was greatly supported by the Democratic Party and as  अध्यक्ष , he थी जिम्मेदार लिये डिजाइनिंग the `` ग्रेट समाज `` विधान कि  included laws that upheld civil rights , public broadcasting , Medicare , Medicaid , environmental protection , aid to education , and his `` War on Poverty . ''
Johnson was renowned for his domineering  व्यक्तित्व और the `` जॉनसन उपचार , '' उसके coercion of  powerful politicians in order to advance legislation .
Meanwhile , Johnson escalated  अमरीकी भागीदारी in the वियतनाम युद्ध , इससे 16,000 अमरीकी advisors/soldiers in 1963 to 550,000  combat troops in early 1968 , as American casualties soared and the peace process bogged down .
The involvement stimulated a large angry antiwar movement based especially on  विश्वविद्यालयों campuses in the u.S. और विदेश  .
Summer riots broke out in most  प्रमुख शहरों बाद 1965 , और अपराधों दरों soared , as उसके प्रतिद्वंद्वियों उठाया  demands for `` law and order '' policies .
The Democratic Party split in multiple feuding factions , and after Johnson did poorly in the  1968 नई हैम्पशायर प्राथमिक  , he ended his bid for reelection .
Republican Richard  निक्सन थी निर्वाचित to सफल  him .
Historians argue that Johnson 's presidency marked  the शिखर of आधुनिक उदारतावाद in the संयुक्त राज्य  after the New Deal era .
Johnson is  क्रमित favorably by कुछ  historians because of his domestic policies .
The Big Bang Theory cast at Comic Con  2009 , इससे बाएँ : कुणाल नय्यर , साइमन helberg , kaley  Cuoco , Jim Parsons , and Johnny Galecki
The American sitcom The Big Bang Theory , created and executive  उत्पादित by चक lorre और विधेयक prady , premiered on सीबीएस on  September 24 , 2007 .
The show centers on five characters : roommates Sheldon Cooper and Leonard  hofstadter , दो caltech physicists ; पैनी , a वेट्रेस और aspiring अभिनेत्री जो जीवनदान आरपार the हॉल ; और लियोनार्ड और शेल्डन 's मित्रों  and co-workers aerospace engineer Howard Wolowitz , and astrophysicist Rajesh Koothrappali .
Over time , several supporting characters have been promoted to starring roles : Leslie Winkle ( season 1 recurring ; season 2 regular ; season 3 guest ) , a physicist colleague , and , at different times , a lover of both Leonard and Howard ; Bernadette Rostenkowski-Wolowitz  ( ऋतु 3 पुनरावर्ती ; ऋतु 4-present नियमित ) , a microbiologist , हावर्ड 's fiancée और subsequent बीवी , और पूर्व part-time वेट्रेस alongside पैनी ; neuroscientist एमी farrah fowler ( ऋतु 3 अतिथि ; ऋतु 4 पुनरावर्ती ; ऋतु 4-present नियमित ) , जो joins the समूह बाद होने matched to शेल्डन on a डेटिंग जालस्थल ; और कॉमिक  book store-owner , Stuart Bloom ( seasons 2–5 recurring ; season 6-present regular ) , who replaces Howard as Raj 's best friend when Howard is in space .
The show also  सुविधाएँ numerous supporting वर्ण  , each of whom plays a prominent role in a small group of episodes .
The American Civil War ( ACW ) ,  भी ज्ञात as the युद्ध between the राज्य or बस the सिविल युद्ध ( देखिए नामकरण ) , थी a सिविल युद्ध लड़ा  from 1861 to 1865 between the United States ( the `` Union '' or the `` North '' ) and several Southern slave states that declared their secession and formed the Confederate States of America ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ) .
The war had its origin in the  समस्या of गुलामी , विशेषकर the एक्सटेंशन of गुलामी  into the western territories .
विदेशी शक्तियां  did not intervene .
After four years of  खूनी कॉम्बैट कि बाएँ over 600,000 सैनिको मुर्दे और नष्ट much of the दक्षिण 's अवसंरचना , the confederacy collapsed , गुलामी थी abolished  , and the difficult Reconstruction process of restoring national unity and guaranteeing rights to the freed slaves began .
In the 1860 presidential election , Republicans , led by  अब्राहम lincoln , opposed expanding गुलामी into संयुक्त  States ' territories .
Lincoln won ,  लकिन पहले उसके उद्घाटन on कूच  4 , 1861 , seven cotton-based slave states formed the Confederacy .
Outgoing Democratic  अध्यक्ष जेम्स बुकानन और the  incoming Republicans rejected secession as illegal .
Lincoln 's  inaugural पता घोषित उसके प्रशासन  would not initiate civil war .
Eight remaining slave states  जारी to अस्वीकृत काल्स लिये secession  .
Confederate  शक्तियां जब्त numerous संघीय दुर्गों  within territory claimed by the Confederacy .
A Peace  सम्मेलन विफल to ढूँढें a सुलह , और  both sides prepared for war .
The Confederates assumed that European countries  यहूद so निर्भर on `` किंग कपास `` कि वे होता intervene ; none किया और none पहचाना  the new Confederate States of America .
Hostilities began on April 12 , 1861 , when Confederate forces fired  upon फोर्ट sumter , a कुंजी फोर्ट आयोजित by संघ सैनिकों  in South Carolina .
lincoln पुकारा लिये प्रत्येक राज्य to provide सैनिकों to retake the फोर्ट ; नतीजतन , चार अधिक स्लेव राज्य  joined the Confederacy , bringing their total to eleven .
The Union soon controlled the border states and established a  नवल नाकेबंदी कि अबोध the दक्षिणी  economy .
The Eastern Theater was  inconclusive in 1861–62  .
The autumn 1862  confederate अभियान into मेरीलैंड ( a संघ राज्य ) ended  with Confederate retreat at the Battle of Antietam , dissuading British intervention .
Lincoln issued the Emancipation  उदघोषणा , जिससे बना समाप्ति गुलामी  a war goal .
To the west , by summer 1862 the Union destroyed the  confederate नदी नेवी , तब much of उनके पश्चिमी सेना , और  the Union at Vicksburg split the Confederacy in two at the Mississippi River .
In 1863 , Robert E. Lee 's Confederate incursion  उत्तर ended at the बैटल  of Gettysburg .
Western successes led to Ulysses S. Grant  कमांड of सब संघ सेना  in 1864 .
In the Western Theater , William T. Sherman drove east to capture Atlanta and marched to the sea ,  destroying confederate अवसंरचना साथ the  way .
The Union marshaled the resources and manpower to attack the  confederacy इससे सब दिशानिर्देश , और could afford to लड़ो लड़ाइयों of अपघर्षण  through the Overland Campaign towards Richmond , the Confederate capital .
The defending  confederate फौज विफल , अग्रणी  to Lee 's surrender to Grant at Appomattox Court House on April 9 , 1865 .
The  अमरीकी सिविल युद्ध थी एक  of the earliest true industrial wars .
Railroads  , the टेलीग्राफ , steamships , और  mass-produced weapons were employed extensively .
The mobilization of civilian  कारखानों , खानों , shipyards , बैंको , परिवहन  and food supplies all foreshadowed World War I .
It remains the deadliest war in  अमरीकी इतिहास , resulting in the मौतों of an अनुमानित  750,000 soldiers and an undetermined number of civilian casualties .
Historian John Huddleston estimates the death toll at ten percent of all Northern males  20–45 सालो बूढ़ा , और 30 प्रतिशत of सब दक्षिणी  white males aged 18–40 .
इंसान एवोल्यूशन refers to the विकासवादी  process leading up to the appearance of modern humans .
While it began with the last common ancestor of  सब जीवन , the टॉपिक प्रायः कवर तभी the विकासवादी इतिहास  of primates , in particular the genus Homo , and the emergence of Homo sapiens as a distinct species of hominids ( or `` great apes '' ) .
The study of human evolution involves many scientific disciplines , including physical anthropology ,  primatology , पुरातत्व , भाषाविज्ञान , विकासवादी मनोविज्ञान , भ्रूणविज्ञान  and genetics .
According to genetic studies , primates diverged from other mammals about in the Late Cretaceous  काल , और the earliest जीवाश्मों  appear in the Paleocene , around .
The family Hominidae diverged from the Hylobatidae ( Gibbon ) family 15-20 million years ago , and  around , the ponginae ( orangutans ) , diverged इससे  the Hominidae family .
Bipedalism is the  मौलिक adaption of the hominin लकीर , और the earliest bipedal hominin  is considered to be either Sahelanthropus or Orrorin , with Ardipithecus , a full bipedal , coming somewhat later .
The gorilla  और चिंपैंजी diverged around the वही समय , परिचय 4-6 लाख सालो पहले , और either  Sahelanthropus or Orrorin may be our last shared ancestor with them .
The  जल्दी bipedals आखिरकार  evolved into the australopithecines and later the genus Homo .
The earliest documented members of the genus Homo are Homo habilis which evolved around ; the  earliest प्रजाति लिये जिससे वहीँ is धनात्मक प्रमाण of उपयोग  of stone tools .
The brains of these  जल्दी hominins यहूद परिचय  the same size as that of a chimpanzee .
During the next million years a process of  encephalization began , और साथ the आगमन of होमो इरेक्टस in the चट्टान रिकार्ड , cranial  capacity had doubled to 850 cm3 .
Homo erectus and Homo  ergaster यहूद the पहला of the hominina to छोड़ अफ़्रीकी , और ये प्रजाति  spread through Africa , Asia , and Europe between .
It is believed that these species  यहूद the पहला to उपयोग आग और  complex tools .
According to the Recent African Ancestry theory , modern humans evolved in Africa possibly from Homo  heidelbergensis , होमो rhodesiensis or होमो antecessor और migrated आउट of the महाद्वीप कुछ 50,000 to 100,000 सालो पहले , replacing  local populations of Homo erectus , Homo denisova , Homo floresiensis and Homo neanderthalensis .
Archaic Homo sapiens , the  forerunner of anatomically आधुनिक इंसानो , विकसित  between 400,000 and 250,000 years ago .
Recent DNA evidence suggests that several haplotypes of Neanderthal origin are  उपस्थित among सब non-african populations , और neanderthals और अन्य hominids , ऐसे as denisova hominin may have contributed  up to 6 % of their genome to present-day humans. < ref name= '' 10.1126/science.1209202 '' > Anatomically modern humans evolved from archaic Homo sapiens in the Middle Paleolithic , about 200,000 years ago .
The transition to behavioral modernity with the development of symbolic culture , language , and specialized  lithic प्रौद्योगिकी happened around 50,000 सालो पहले according to अनेक विज्ञानियों  although some suggest a gradual change in behavior over a longer time span .
Lisa Cuddy , M.D . , is a  fictional अक्षर on  the Fox network medical drama House .
वो is portrayed by  Lisa Edelstein .
Cuddy was the Dean of Medicine and hospital administrator of the  fictional princeton-plainsboro शिक्षण हॉस्पिटल in  New Jersey .
She also becomes House 's  प्रेम ब्याज through the सालो  to start a relationship with him in season seven .
Cuddy quit her job after the events of season  सात 's finale `` चलती on ``  .
Track and field is a sport comprising various competitive athletic contests based on running  , कूद , और फेंकना  .
The name of the sport derives from the  प्रतियोगिता स्थान : a  stadium with an oval running track around a grass field .
The throwing and jumping  कार्यक्रम generally लो प्लेस  in the central enclosed area .
Track and  फ़ील्ड जलप्रपात अंतर्गत the छतरियाँ खेल of एथलेटिक्स , जिससे भी शामिल  road running , cross country running , and race walking .
The two most prestigious international track and field competitions are held under the banner of athletics : the athletics  प्रतियोगिता at the ओलम्पिक खेल और the आइएएएफ  World Championships in Athletics .
The International Association of Athletics Federations is the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय शासी देह लिये track और फ़ील्ड  .
Track and field events are generally  व्यक्तिगत खेल साथ एथलीट चुनौतीपूर्ण प्रत्येक  other to decide a single victor .
The racing events are won by the athlete with  the तीव्रतम समय , जबकि the कूद  and throwing events are won by the athlete who has achieved the greatest distance or height in the contest .
The running  कार्यक्रम हैं categorised as sprints ,  middle and long-distance events , relays , and hurdling .
Regular jumping events include long jump ,  ट्रिपल जम्प , ऊँची जम्प और ध्रुव वॉल्ट , जबकि the सबसे आम फेंकना  events are shot put , javelin , discus and hammer .
There are also `` combined events ''  , ऐसे as heptathlon और decathlon , in जिससे  athletes compete in a number of the above events .
रिकॉर्ड हैं रखा of the बेहतरीन प्रदर्शन in  specific events , at world and national levels , right down to a personal level .
However , if athletes are deemed  to have violated the  event 's rules or regulations , they are disqualified from the competition and their marks are erased .
In North America , the term track and field may be used to refer to  एथलेटिक्स in सामान्य , बल्कि than specifically track  and field events .
The Gulf War ( 2 August 1990 – 28 February  1991 ) , codenamed आपरेशन मरुस्थल तूफ़ान ( 17 जनवरी  1991 – 28 February 1991 ) was a war waged by a U.N.-authorized Coalition force from 34 nations led by the United States , against Iraq in response to Iraq 's invasion and annexation of Kuwait .
The war is also known under other names , such as the Persian Gulf War , First Gulf War , Gulf War I , or the First Iraq War , before the term `` Iraq War '' became  पहचाना बजाय साथ the 2003 इराकी युद्ध ( भी referred to in the  U.S. as `` Operation Iraqi Freedom '' ) .
Kuwait 's invasion by Iraqi troops that began 2 August 1990 was met with international condemnation , and brought immediate economic  प्रतिबंधों विरूद्ध इराकी by सदस्यों  of the U.N. Security Council .
U.S. President George H. W. Bush deployed U.S. forces into Saudi Arabia , and  urged अन्य देशों to भेजें उनके अपना शक्तियां  to the scene .
An  सरणी of राष्ट्र joined  the Coalition .
The great majority of the Coalition  's सैन्य शक्तियां यहूद  from the U.S. , with Saudi Arabia , the United Kingdom and Egypt as leading contributors , in that order .
सऊदी अरब सशुल्क  around US $ 36 billion of the US $ 60 billion cost .
The war was marked by the beginning of live news on the front lines of the fight , with the primacy  of the u.S. संजाल सीएनएन  .
The war has also earned the nickname Video Game War after the daily  ब्रॉडकास्ट बिंब on फलक the u.S. बमवर्षक दौरान आपरेशन  Desert Storm .
The initial conflict to expel Iraqi  सैनिकों इससे कुवैत began साथ an aerial  bombardment on 17 January 1991 .
This was followed by a  मैदान उत्पीड़न on 24  February .
This was a decisive victory for  the गठबन्धन शक्तियां , जो liberated कुवैत  and advanced into Iraqi territory .
The Coalition ceased their advance , and declared a  cease-fire 100 घंटों बाद the मैदान  campaign started .
Aerial and ground combat was confined to Iraq , Kuwait ,  और क्षेत्रों on सऊदी अरब 's  border .
Iraq launched Scud  मिसाइलें विरूद्ध गठबन्धन सैन्य  targets in Saudi Arabia and against Israel .
The nickel ,  in अमरीकी उपयोग , is a  five- cent coin issued by the United States Mint .
Composed of 75 %  तांबे और 25 % निकल , the टुकड़ा रै  been struck since 1866 .
The silver half dime , equal to five cents , had been issued  चूंकि the 1790s  .
The American Civil War caused economic hardship , driving gold and silver from circulation ; in response , in place  of low-value सिक्के , the सरकारी at पहला  issued paper currency .
In 1865 , Congress  abolished the five-cent fractional करेंसी नोट बाद स्पेंसर M. क्लार्क , सिर of the करेंसी  Bureau ( today the Bureau of Engraving and Printing ) , placed his own portrait on the denomination .
After successful introduction of two-cent and three-cent pieces ,  बगैर अनमोल मेटल , कॉंग्रेस भी प्राधिकृत a five-cent  piece consisting of base metal ; the Mint began striking this version in 1866 .
The initial design of the Shield nickel was struck until 1883 , then replaced by  the स्वतंत्रता सिर निकल  .
The Buffalo nickel was introduced in 1913 as part  of a ड्राइव to बढ़ाएँ the सौंदर्य of  American coinage ; in 1938 , the Jefferson nickel followed .
In 2004 and 2005  , खास डिजाइन in सम्मान of the bicentennial  of the Lewis and Clark Expedition were issued .
In 2006 , the Mint reverted to using Jefferson nickel  पंक्तियां फेलिक्स schlag 's असली रिवर्स ( or `` tails '' पक्ष ) , हालांकि  a new obverse , by Jamie Franki , was substituted .
As of 2013 , it costs  अधिक than ग्यारह सेंट to उपज a निकल ; the मिंट is  exploring the possibility of reducing cost by using less expensive metals .
A  पोस्टर साथ पुष्प or क्लस्टर of पुष्प उत्पादित  by twelve species of flowering plants from different families
A flower , sometimes known as a bloom or blossom , is the reproductive structure found in flowering plants ( plants of the division  magnoliophyta , भी पुकारा angiosperms )  .
The  biological फलन of a पुष्प is to  effect reproduction , usually by providing a mechanism for the union of sperm with eggs .
Flowers may facilitate outcrossing ( fusion of sperm and eggs from different individuals in a population ) or allow  selfing ( संलयन of शुक्राणु और अंडा इससे the वही  flower ) .
Some flowers  उपज diaspores बगैर  fertilization ( parthenocarpy ) .
Flowers contain sporangia and  हैं the साईट जहाँ gametophytes  develop .
पुष्प दे वृद्धि  to fruit and seeds .
Many flowers have evolved to be attractive to  पशु , so as to कारण उन्हें  to be vectors for the transfer of pollen .
In addition to facilitating the reproduction of flowering plants , flowers  have long महरूम admired और प्रयुक्त by इंसानो to beautify उनके पर्यावरण , और भी as  objects of romance , ritual , religion , medicine and as a source of food .
The McDonnell Douglas ( now Boeing ) F-15 Eagle is a twin-engine , all-weather tactical fighter  designed by mcdonnell डगलस to लाभ और maintain एयर बड़प्पन  in aerial combat .
It is  माना among the सबसे कामयाब आधुनिक  fighters , with over 100 aerial combat victories with no losses in dogfights .
Following reviews of proposals , the  संयुक्त राज्य एयर फ़ोर्स चयनित mcdonnell डगलस ' डिज़ाइन  in 1967 to meet the service 's need for a dedicated air superiority fighter .
the त्रिभुज पहला  flew in July 1972 , and entered service in 1976 .
Since the 1970s , the Eagle has been exported to  इसराईल , जापानी , सऊदी अरब , और  other nations .
The F-15 was originally envisioned as a  pure एयर बड़प्पन वायुयान  .
Its design included a  द्वितीयक ground-attack काबिलियत  that was largely unused .
The design proved flexible enough that an all-weather strike  डेरिवेटिव , the f-15e स्ट्राइक त्रिभुज  , was later developed , and entered service in 1989 .
The F-15  त्रिभुज is अपेक्षित to be in सेवा  with the U.S. Air Force past 2025 .
Mimio is a brand name  of a लकीर of प्रौद्योगिकी उत्पाद aimed at  the education market .
The primary products are focused  around कंप्यूटर whiteboard इंटरैक्टिव  teaching devices .
MimioCapture devices also allow users to capture all of the ink  स्ट्रोक्स कि हैं लिखा  on the whiteboard .
When used in  संयोजन साथ a वीडियो प्रोजेक्टर it turns the ordinary  whiteboard surface into a fully interactive whiteboard .
the उत्पाद लकीर थी originally  designed by Virtual Ink .
on अक्तूबर 4 , 2006 newell rubbermaid acquired  the Mimio interactive whiteboard ( iWB ) product line .
rahab of  Jericho
Rahab , ( ; ; ) was , according to the Book of Joshua , a woman who  जिया in जेरिको in the promised जमीन और  assisted the Israelites in capturing the city .
Nearly all English translations of Joshua  describe उसके  as a harlot or prostitute .
The Organization of American States  ( स्पेनी : organización de लॉस estados americanos , पुर्तगाली : organização  dos Estados Americanos , French : Organisation des États américains ) , or the OAS , is a regional international organization .
The OAS was founded on 30 April 1948 , and  रै इसके मुख्यालय in वॉशिंगटन  , D.C. , United States .
Its members  हैं the 35 स्वतंत्र  states of the Americas .
Since 26 May 2005 , the  सचिव सामान्य of  OAS has been José Miguel Insulza .
Christopher Columbus ( Italian : Cristoforo Colombo ; Spanish : Cristóbal Colón ; Portuguese : Cristóvão Colombo ; before 31 October 145120  may 1506 ) थी an इतालवी एक्सप्लोरर , नाविक , और colonizer , born in the गणतंत्र of जेनोआ , in कया is आज northwestern  Italy .
Under the auspices of the Catholic Monarchs of Spain , he completed four voyages across the  अटलांटिक समंदर कि led to सामान्य यूरोपीय जागरूकता of the अमरीकी  continents .
Those voyages , and  उसके प्रयत्न to स्थापित स्थाई settlements  on the island of Hispaniola , initiated the Spanish colonization of the New World .
In the context of emerging western imperialism and economic competition between European kingdoms seeking wealth through the establishment of trade routes and colonies , Columbus 's speculative proposal , to reach the East Indies by sailing westward , eventually received the  support of the स्पेनी क्राउन , जिससे देखी in it a वादा , however रिमोट , of gaining the अपर हाथ over प्रतिद्वंद्वी शक्तियां in the प्रतियोगिता लिये the lucrative मसाला व्यापार साथ  Asia .
During his first voyage in 1492 , instead of  reaching जापानी as he था intended , कोलंबस उतरा in the बहामा द्वीपसमूह  , at a locale he named San Salvador .
Over the course of three more voyages , Columbus visited the  वृहद और lesser antilles , as खूब as the caribbean coast of  Venezuela and Central America , claiming them for the Spanish Empire .
Though Columbus was not the first European explorer to reach the Americas ( having been preceded by the Norse expedition led by Leif  ericson in the 11th सदी ) , कोलंबस 's voyages led to the पहला स्थायी यूरोपीय सम्पर्क साथ the americas  , inaugurating a period of European exploration , conquest , and colonization that lasted for several centuries .
They had , therefore , an enormous impact in the historical  विकास  of the modern Western world .
Columbus himself saw his accomplishments primarily in the light of the  spreading of the ईसाई  religion .
Never admitting that he had reached a continent previously unknown to Europeans , rather than  the ईस्ट इंडीज he था नियत आउट लिये , कोलंबस पुकारा the निवासियों  of the lands he visited indios ( Spanish for `` Indians `` ) .
कोलंबस 's strained संबंध साथ the स्पेनी क्राउन और इसके नियुक्त औपनिवेशिक प्रशासकों in अमेरिका  led to his arrest and dismissal as governor of the settlements on the island of Hispaniola in 1500 , and later to protracted litigation over the benefits which Columbus and his heirs claimed were owed to them by the crown .
Bred in Germany , the Boxer is a breed of stocky  , medium-sized , short-haired  dogs .
the कोट is चिकना और tight-fitting  ; colors are fawn or brindled , with or without white markings , which may cover the entire body .
Boxers are brachycephalic ( they have broad , short skulls ) , and have a square  muzzle , mandibular prognathism ( an underbite ) , बहुत दमदार जबड़े , और a शक्तिशाली काटना  ideal for hanging on to large prey .
The Boxer was bred from the Old English Bulldog and  the अभी विलुप्त bullenbeisser  , and is part of the Molosser group .
Boxers were first  exhibited in a श्वान दिखाएँ लिये st. bernards in म्यूनिख in 1895 ,  the first Boxer club being founded the next year .
Based on 2012  अमरीकी kennel क्लबों आंकडे , मुक्केबाज आयोजित स्थिर as the सातवाँ  most popular breed of dog in the United States for the third consecutive year .
Serial ATA ( SATA ) is a computer bus interface that connects host  बस adapters to द्रव्यमान भंडार डिवाइस ऐसे as मुश्किल डिस्क ड्राइव और ऑप्टिकल  drives .
Serial ATA replaces the older AT Attachment standard ( ATA ; later referred to as Parallel ATA or PATA ) ,  offering अनेक लाभ over the पुरानी इंटरफ़ेस : घटाया केबल आकार और लागत ( सात conductors बजाय of 40 ) , देशी hot swapping , तेज़ आंकड़ा ट्रांसफ़र  through higher signalling rates , and more efficient transfer through an ( optional ) I/O queuing protocol .
SATA host adapters and  डिवाइस communicate via a high-speed सीरियल  cable over two pairs of conductors .
In contrast , parallel ATA ( the redesignation  लिये the विरासत ata विशेषताएँ ) प्रयुक्त a 16-bit चौड़ी आंकड़ा  bus with many additional support and control signals , all operating at much lower frequency .
To ensure backward  संगतता साथ विरासत ata तन्त्र और अनुप्रयोग , sata उपयोग the वही  basic ATA and ATAPI command-set as legacy ATA devices .
SATA has replaced parallel ATA in consumer desktop and laptop computers , and has largely  replaced pata in नई अंतःस्थापित अनुप्रयोग  .
SATA 's market share  in the डेस्कटॉप pc मार्केट  was 99 % in 2008 .
PATA remains widely used in industrial and embedded  अनुप्रयोग कि उपयोग compactflash  storage , even though the new CFast standard is based on SATA .
Serial  ata उद्योग संगतता विशेषताएँ originate  from The Serial ATA International Organization ( aka .
sata-io , serialata.org  ) .
The SATA-IO group collaboratively  creates , समीक्षाएँ  , ratifies , and publishes the interoperability specifications , the test cases , and plug-fests .
As with many other industry compatibility standards , the SATA content  स्वामित्व is transferred to अन्य उद्योग लाशें :  primarily the INCITS T13 subcommittee ATA , the INCITS T10 subcommittee ( SCSI ) ; a subgroup of T10 responsible for Serial Attached SCSI ( SAS ) .
the पूरा specification  from SATA-IO .
The remainder of this article will try  to उपयोग the शब्दावली  and specifications of SATA-IO .
The history of the Internet began with the  विकास  of electronic computers in the 1950s .
The public was first introduced to the concepts that would lead to the Internet when a message was sent over the ARPANet from computer science  प्राध्यापक लियोनार्ड kleinrock 's प्रयोगशाला at विश्वविद्यालयों of कैलिफ़ोर्निया , लॉस एंजिल्स ( ucla ) , बाद the दूसरी टुकड़ा of संजाल उपकरण थी  installed at Stanford Research Institute ( SRI ) .
Packet switched networks such as  arpanet , चिह्नित i at npl in the uk , cyclades , मेरिट संजाल , tymnet , और telenet , यहूद  developed in the late 1960s and early 1970s using a variety of protocols .
The ARPANET in particular led to the development of protocols for internetworking , in which multiple separate networks  could be joined साथ into a संजाल of संजाल .
In 1982 , the Internet protocol suite ( TCP/IP ) was  मानकीकृत , और नतीजतन , the अवधारणा of a world-wide संजाल  of interconnected TCP/IP networks , called the Internet , was introduced .
Access to the  arpanet थी विस्तारित in 1981 जब the नेशनल विज्ञान न्यास ( nsf  ) developed the Computer Science Network ( CSNET ) and again in 1986 when NSFNET provided access to supercomputer sites in the United States from research and education organizations .
Commercial  अंतरजाल सेवा प्रदाताओं ( isps  ) began to emerge in the late 1980s and early 1990s .
The  arpanet थी decommissioned  in 1990 .
the अंतरजाल थी commercialized in 1995 जब  NSFNET was decommissioned , removing the last restrictions on the use of the Internet to carry commercial traffic .
Since the mid-1990s , the Internet has had a revolutionary impact on culture and commerce , including the rise of near-instant communication by electronic mail , instant messaging ,  आवाज़ over अंतरजाल प्रोटोकॉल ( voip ) `` फोन काल्स '' , two-way इंटरैक्टिव वीडियो काल्स , और the संसार चौड़ी वेब साथ इसके चर्चा  forums , blogs , social networking , and online shopping sites .
The research and education  जातियाँ continues to develop और उपयोग उन्नत संजाल ऐसे as nsf 's बहुत ऊँची गति  Backbone Network Service ( vBNS ) , Internet2 , and National LambdaRail .
Increasing amounts of data are transmitted at  उच्चतर और उच्चतर speeds over रेशा ऑप्टिक संजाल ऑपरेटिंग at 1-gbit/s  , 10-Gbit/s , or more .
The Internet 's takeover over the global communication landscape was almost instant in historical terms : it only communicated 1 % of the information  बहती through two-way दूरसंचार संजाल in the साल 1993  , already 51 % by 2000 , and more than 97 % of the telecommunicated information by 2007 .
Today the Internet continues to grow , driven by ever  वृहद amounts of ऑनलाइन सूचना  , commerce , entertainment , and social networking .
The Gift is the second album by Scottish singer Susan Boyle ,  जिससे थी released on 8 नवम्बर 2010  .
Boyle hinted that the album has a 1960s feel  `` क्युकी कि  was [ her ] era '' .
on 30 November 2011 , the album received a nomination in 54th Grammy Awards for  बेहतरीन परंपरागत  Pop Vocal Album .
`` This Is Just To Say '' ( 1934 ) is a  प्रसिद्ध imagist  poem by William Carlos Williams .
प्राध्यापक ऐल्बस पर्सिवल wulfric ब्रायन डम्बल्डोर  is a major character and protagonist of J. K. Rowling 's Harry Potter series .
For  सबसे of the श्रेणी , he is  the headmaster of the wizarding school Hogwarts .
As part of his backstory , it is revealed that he is the founder and leader of the Order of the Phoenix , an organisation  समर्पित to लड़ the प्रमुख विपक्षी of the श्रेणी  , Lord Voldemort .
डम्बल्डोर is portrayed by रिचर्ड हैरिस in the फिल्मी adaptions of हैरी  Potter and the Philosopher 's Stone and Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets .
After Harris ' death , Michael  gambon portrayed डम्बल्डोर लिये सब of  the remaining films .
Rowling stated she  chose the नाम डम्बल्डोर , जिससे is an जल्दी आधुनिक अंग्रेज़ी शब्द  for `` bumblebee `` , because of Dumbledore 's love of music : she imagined him walking around `` humming to himself a lot '' .
calcitonin ( भी ज्ञात as thyrocalcitonin ) is a 32-amino एसिड रैखिक polypeptide  hormone that is produced in humans primarily by the parafollicular cells ( also known as C-cells ) of the thyroid , and in many other animals in the ultimobranchial body .
It acts to reduce blood calcium ( Ca2+  ) , opposing the प्रभाव  of parathyroid hormone ( PTH ) .
Calcitonin has been found in fish ,  सरीसृपों , पक्षियों , और स्तनधारियों  .
Its importance in humans has not been as well established as its  महत्व in अन्य पशु , as इसके फलन is प्रायः नहीं  significant in the regulation of normal calcium homeostasis .
It belongs  to calcitonin-like  protein family .
A mousepad with a padded  कलाई बाकी  .
A mousepad ( US ) or mouse mat ( UK ) is a  सतह लिये रखकर  and moving a computer mouse .
A mousepad enhances the usability of the mouse compared to using a mouse directly on a table by providing a surface to allow  the ट्रैकिंग led or बॉल ( in पूर्व मॉडल ) to माप गति accurately और बगैर जिटर  .
Some mousepads increase ergonomics by  providing a padded कलाई  rest .
The  स्टेडियम देखी इससे  above in 1980
दिसम्बर  29 , 2002 implosion
The Riverfront  स्टेडियम साईट in जून  , 2006 .
This photo was taken  इससे the पश्चिमी concourse of ग्रेट अमरीकी  Ball Park .
A small portion of the Riverfront Stadium site is now occupied by the Reds ' Hall of  कीर्ति और संग्रहालय और प्रमुख गली , जिससे थी विस्तारित जब the नई  park was built .
The Cincinnati Bengals '  पॉल भूरा स्टेडियम is in the  distance .
Riverfront Stadium (  1970–1995 ) , बाद ज्ञात as cinergy फ़ील्ड ( 1996–2002 ) , थी the घर of  the Cincinnati Reds National League baseball team and the Cincinnati Bengals National Football League team .
Located on the  ओहियो नदी in शहर सिनसिनाटी , the स्टेडियम थी बेहतरीन ज्ञात as  the home of `` The Big Red Machine `` , as the Reds were often called in the 1970s .
निर्माण began on फ़रवरी 1 , 1968 , और थी  completed at a cost of less than $ 50 million .
On June 30 , 1970 , the Reds hosted the  अटलांटा braves in उनके ग्रैंड खोलने  , with Hank Aaron hitting the first ever home run at Riverfront .
Two  सप्ताह बाद on जुलाई 14 , 1970  , Riverfront hosted the 1970 Major League Baseball All-Star Game .
This game is best remembered for the  often-replayed टक्कर at घर थाली between  Reds star Pete Rose and catcher Ray Fosse of the Cleveland Indians .
In September 1996 , Riverfront  स्टेडियम थी renamed `` cinergy फ़ील्ड  '' in a sponsorship deal with Greater Cincinnati 's energy company , Cinergy Corporation .
In  2001 , to मेक रूम लिये ग्रेट अमरीकी बॉल पार्क  , the seating capacity at Cinergy Field was reduced to 39,000 .
वहीँ थी a विशाल वॉल in बीच फ़ील्ड दृश्य  after the renovations , to serve as the batter 's eye .
the स्टेडियम थी demolished  by implosion on December 29 , 2002 .
Nexen Tire is a tire manufacturer , headquartered in Yangsan , South Gyeongsang Province  , और सियोल , दोनो in दक्षिण कोरियाई  .
Its major domestic competitors are Hankook Tire  और kumho टायर  .
the कम्पनी 's नाम is reflected in the कम्पनी  slogan , `` Next Century Tire . ''
The silent majority is an unspecified  विशाल बहुमत of लोगों in a देश  or group who do not express their opinions publicly .
The term was  popularized ( हालांकि नहीं पहला प्रयुक्त ) by u.S. अध्यक्ष रिचर्ड निक्सन in a नवम्बर 3 , 1969 , वाक  in which he said , `` And so tonight—to you , the great silent majority of my fellow Americans—I ask for your support . ''
In this usage it referred to  those अमेरिकी जो किया नहीं जुड़ें in the विशाल demonstrations विरूद्ध the वियतनाम युद्ध at the समय , जो किया  not join in the counterculture , and who did not participate in public discourse .
Nixon along with many  अन्य देखी इस समूह of मध्य अमेरिकी as होने निष्प्रभ  in the media by the more vocal minority .
The phrase was used in the 19th century as a euphemism referring to all the people who have died , and  अन्य have प्रयुक्त it पहले और बाद निक्सन to refer to समूह of मतदाता  in various nations of the world .
Sam , a rhesus monkey ,  उड़ाया to an ऊँचाई  of 88 km in 1959 .
(  नासा  )
Before humans went into space , several animals were launched into space , including numerous monkeys , so that  वैज्ञानिकों could investigate the biological  effects of space travel .
The  संयुक्त राज्य शुभारम्भ  flights containing primate cargo primarily between 1948-1961 with one flight in 1969 and one in 1985 .
France  शुभारम्भ दो monkey-carrying  flights in 1967 .
The Soviet Union and Russia  शुभारम्भ बंदरों between 1983 और  1996 .
Most  बंदरों यहूद anesthetized पहले  lift-off .
overall thirty-two बंदरों उड़ाया  in the space program ; none flew more than once .
Numerous  back-up बंदरों भी गई  through the programs but never flew .
Monkeys from several species were used , including rhesus monkeys , cynomolgus  बंदरों , गिलहरी बंदरों , और pig-tailed  macaques .
Some chimpanzees ( which are  apes बल्कि than बंदरों )  were also used .
RAID ( redundant array of independent disks ,  originally अनावश्यक सरणी of inexpensive डिस्क ) is  a storage technology that combines multiple disk drive components into a logical unit .
Data is distributed across  the ड्राइव in एक of अनेक तरीके पुकारा  `` RAID levels '' , depending on the level of redundancy and performance required .
The term `` RAID '' was first defined by David Patterson ,  garth A. गिब्सन , और रैंडी katz at the विश्वविद्यालयों  of California , Berkeley in 1987 .
Marketers representing industry RAID manufacturers later  attempted to reinvent the पद to describe a अनावश्यक सरणी of स्वतंत्र डिस्क as a अर्थात्  of disassociating a low-cost expectation from RAID technology .
RAID is now used as an umbrella term for computer data storage schemes that can divide and replicate data among  अनेक शारीरिक ड्राइव : रेड is an उदाहरण of भंडार  virtualization and the array can be accessed by the operating system as one single drive .
The different schemes or  architectures हैं नामित by the शब्द रेड followed by a क्रमांक ( e.g .  RAID 0 , RAID 1 ) .
Each scheme provides  a अलग संतुलन between the कुंजी लक्ष्य : विश्वसनीयता  and availability , performance and capacity .
RAID levels greater than RAID 0 provide protection against unrecoverable ( sector ) read  त्रुटियाँ , as खूब as पूरे डिस्क  failure .
A lymphocyte is a type of white  रक्त कोशिका in the vertebrate प्रतिरक्षा  system .
Under the microscope ,  lymphocytes can be विभाजित  into large lymphocytes and small lymphocytes .
Large  granular lymphocytes शामिल  natural killer cells ( NK cells ) .
Small lymphocytes  consist of t कोशिकाएं और b कोशिकाएं  .
The Big Lebowski is a 1998 dark  कॉमेडी फिल्मी लिखा  and directed by Joel and Ethan Coen .
Jeff Bridges stars as Jeff  lebowski , an बेरोजगार लॉस एंजिल्स  slacker and avid bowler , nicknamed `` The Dude . ''
After a case of mistaken identity , The Dude is  introduced to a करोड़पति भी नामित  Jeffrey Lebowski .
When the millionaire Lebowski 's trophy wife is later kidnapped  , he आयोग the यार to उद्धार the फिरौती to सुरक्षित  her release .
The plan goes awry  जब the यार 's dost वाल्टर  Sobchak ( John Goodman ) schemes to keep the full ransom .
Steve Buscemi , Philip Seymour Hoffman , David Huddleston , Julianne  मूर , tara reid , और जॉन turturro भी स्टार in the फिल्मी , जिससे  is narrated by a cowboy known only as `` The Stranger '' , played by Sam Elliott .
The film is loosely  प्रेरित by  the work of Raymond Chandler .
Joel Coen stated : `` We wanted to do a Chandler kind of story – how  it चालें episodically , और सौदे साथ the वर्ण  trying to unravel a mystery , as well as having a hopelessly complex plot that 's ultimately unimportant . ''
The  असली स्कोर थी रचित  by Carter Burwell , a longtime collaborator of the Coen Brothers .
The Big Lebowski was a disappointment at  the u.S. बक्सा दफ्तर और प्राप्त  mixed reviews at the time of its release .
समीक्षाएँ have trended towards the धनात्मक over समय , और  the film has become a cult favorite , noted for its idiosyncratic characters , dream sequences , unconventional dialogue , and eclectic soundtrack .
Severus Snape is a fictional character in the Harry Potter book  श्रेणी लिखा by j.K.  Rowling .
In the first novel of the series , he  is शत्रु toward हैरी और is निर्मित up to be the प्राथमिक विपक्षी  until the final chapters .
As the series progresses , Snape 's character  becomes अधिक परतदार और जटिल  .
Rowling  करता नहीं fully खुलासा the विवरण of उसके  true loyalties until the end of the final book , Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows .
Over the course of the  श्रेणी , snape 's portrayal evolves इससे कि of a दुर्भावनापूर्ण और दलगत टीचर  to that of a pivotal character of considerable complexity and moral ambiguity .
Snape primarily teaches Potions at Hogwarts , though in  the छठे अनोखा he सिखाती  Defence Against the Dark Arts , a position which he was known to have desired throughout the series .
he ultimately becomes हेडमास्टर  of Hogwarts in the final novel .
Rowling has described him as `` a  तोहफा of a अक्षर  '' .
Grits refers to a ground-corn food of Native American origin  , कि is आम in the दक्षिणी संयुक्त  States and mainly eaten at breakfast .
Modern  grits हैं commonly बना of  alkali-treated corn known as hominy .
Grits are similar to other thick maize-based porridges from  around the संसार ऐसे as polenta or the thinner  farina .
`` Instant grits '' have  महरूम processed to गति  cooking .
The word `` grits '' derives from the Old English word  `` grytt ,  '' meaning coarse meal .
इस शब्द originally referred to गेहूं  and other porridges now known as groats in parts of the U.K..
Maize , unknown in Europe in the Middle Ages , is a food derived from corn ( a New World  संयंत्र ) और `` मकई '' था महरूम प्रयुक्त to describe गेहूं उत्पाद in अनेक यूरोपीय  regions .
`` Grits '' may be either singular  or बहुवचन ; historically , in the अमरीकी दक्षिण the शब्द थी invariably एकवचन notwithstanding इसके बहुवचन  form ( cf . such food names as `` spaghetti '' or `` linguine '' , likewise plural in form , but singular in use ) .
Sometimes , grits are called  sofkee or sofkey ( इससे  a native American Muskogee word ) .
In molecular biology , human chorionic  gonadotropin ( hcg ) is a हार्मोन उत्पादित by the निषेचित  egg after conception .
Later during pregnancy it is made by the developing placenta , and  बाद by the placental घटक syncytiotrophoblast  .
Some cancerous tumors produce this hormone ;  इसलिए , elevated स्तर measured जब the रोगी is नहीं गर्भवती  can lead to a cancer diagnosis .
However , it is not known  whether इस  production is a contributing cause or an effect of tumorigenesis .
The pituitary analogue of hCG , known as luteinizing hormone ( LH ) , is produced in the  pituitary ग्रंथि of males और महिलाओं  of all ages .
, the FDA has prohibited the sale of ``  होम्योपैथिक '' और over the काउंटर hcg आहार उत्पाद  and declared them fraudulent and illegal .
The Las Vegas Strip  संसार of coca-cola  museum in 2003
Coca-Cola is a carbonated soft drink sold in stores ,  रेस्तरां , और वेंडिंग मशीने in प्रत्येक देश  except Cuba and North Korea .
It is produced  by the coca-cola कम्पनी of अटलांटा , जॉर्जिया , और is प्रायः referred to बस as कोक  ( a registered trademark of The Coca-Cola Company in the United States since March 27 , 1944 ) .
Originally intended as a patent medicine when it was invented in the late 19th century by John Pemberton , Coca-Cola was bought out by businessman Asa Griggs Candler , whose marketing tactics led Coke to its dominance of the  संसार soft-drink मार्केट throughout the 20th सदी  .
The company produces concentrate , which is then sold to licensed Coca-Cola  bottlers throughout the संसार .
The bottlers , who hold territorially exclusive  अनुबंध साथ the कम्पनी , उपज समाप्त  product in cans and bottles from the concentrate in combination with filtered water and sweeteners .
The bottlers then sell , distribute and merchandise  coca-cola to खुदरा  stores and vending machines .
Such bottlers include Coca-Cola  उद्यमों , जिससे is the largest सिंगल coca-cola bottler in  North America and western Europe .
The Coca-Cola Company also sells concentrate for soda  स्रोतों to प्रमुख रेस्तरां और खाना सेवा  distributors .
The Coca-Cola Company has , on occasion , introduced other  कोला पेय अंतर्गत the कोक ब्रांड  name .
The most common of these is Diet Coke , with others including Caffeine-Free Coca-Cola , Diet Coke Caffeine-Free , Coca-Cola Cherry , Coca-Cola Zero ,  coca-cola वैनिला , और खास संस्करण साथ नीबू , लाइम or कॉफी  .
Based on  interbrand 's बेहतरीन वैश्विक ब्रांड  2011 , Coca-Cola was the world 's most valuable brand .
An ombudsman is an official , usually appointed by the government or by parliament but with a  significant उपाधि of स्वतंत्रता , जो is चार्ज साथ representing the रूचि  of the public by investigating and addressing complaints of maladministration or violation of rights .
In some countries an Inspector General , Citizen Advocate or other official may have duties similar to those of a national  ombudsman , और may भी be नियुक्त by the विधानमंडल  .
Below the national level an ombudsman may be appointed by a state , local or  नगरपालिका सरकारी , और unofficial ombudsmen may be नियुक्त by , or भी कार्य लिये , a निगम  such as a utility supplier or a newspaper , for an NGO , or for a professional regulatory body .
whether नियुक्त by the विधानमंडल , the कार्यपालिका , or an संगठन ( or , कम अक्सर , निर्वाचित  by the constituency that he or she serves ) , the typical duties of an ombudsman are to investigate complaints and attempt to resolve them , usually through recommendations ( binding or not ) or mediation .
Ombudsmen  sometimes भी उद्देश्य to पहचानो  systemic issues leading to poor service or breaches of people 's rights .
At the national level , most ombudsmen have a wide mandate to deal with the entire public sector , and sometimes also  तत्व of the निजी सेक्टर ( लिये  example , contracted service providers ) .
In some cases , there is a more  प्रतिबंधित जनादेश , लिये उदाहरण साथ particular  sectors of society .
More recent developments have  शामिल the सृष्टि of specialised children  's Ombudsman and Information Commissioner agencies .
In some jurisdictions an ombudsman charged with the handling of concerns about national government is more formally referred to as the ``  संसदीय कमिश्नर '' ( e.g . the संयुक्त किंगडम संसदीय  Commissioner for Administration , and the Western Australian state Ombudsman ) .
In many countries where the ombudsman 's remit extends beyond dealing with alleged  maladministration to promoting और protecting इंसान  rights , the ombudsman is recognised as the national human rights institution .
The post of ombudsman had by the end  of the 20th सदी महरूम instituted by सबसे सरकारें  and by some intergovernmental organizations such as the European Union .
Making a complaint  to an ombudsman is प्रायः  free of charge .
Sign  at georgetown  University Washington DC
Sign in  बांजुल , the  Gambia
Autumn in New England ,  watercolor , मौरिस  Prendergast .
Ca .  1910–1913
Fall  foliage in the कस्बा of  Stowe , Vermont
New England is a region in the northeastern corner of the United States consisting of the  छह राज्य of maine , नई हैम्पशायर , वर्मांट ,  Massachusetts , Rhode Island , and Connecticut .
New England is bordered  by नई यॉर्क राज्य to the दक्षिणपश्चिम , क्यूबेक to the उत्तरपश्चिम , और  New Brunswick and the Atlantic Ocean to the east .
In one of the earliest English settlements in North America , Pilgrims from England first  settled in नई इंग्लैण्ड in 1620 , to रूप plymouth उपनिवेश  .
Ten years later , the Puritans settled north of Plymouth Colony in  बोस्टन , यूँ forming मैसाचुसेट्स  Bay Colony .
Over the next 130 years , New England fought in four French and Indian Wars , until the British defeated  the फ्रेंच और उनके देशी allies in उत्तर अमेरिका  .
In the late 18th century , the  नई इंग्लैण्ड colonies initiated the प्रतिरोध to the अंग्रेजों पार्लियामेंट 's प्रयत्न  to impose new taxes without the consent of the colonists .
The Boston Tea Party was a protest to which Great Britain responded with a series of punitive laws stripping  मैसाचुसेट्स of self-government , जिससे यहूद termed the `` असहनीय अधिनियमों `` by the colonists  .
The confrontation led to open warfare in 1775 , the expulsion of the British authorities from New England in spring  1776 , और the घोषणा of स्वतंत्रता in जुलाई  1776 .
Some of the first movements of American literature  , दर्शनशास्त्र , और  education originated in New England .
The region played a prominent  भूमिका in the गति to abolish गुलामी , और थी the पहला प्रदेश of the संयुक्त राज्य  to be transformed by the Industrial Revolution .
Today , New  इंग्लैण्ड is a प्रमुख संसार बीच  of education , high technology , insurance , and medicine .
Boston  is इसके सांस्कृतिक , वित्तीय , शैक्षणिक  , medical and transportation center .
Each state is principally subdivided into small incorporated  municipalities ज्ञात as नई इंग्लैण्ड कस्बों , जिससे हैं  often governed by town meeting .
The only  unincorporated territory in नई इंग्लैण्ड exists  in the sparse , northern regions of Vermont , New Hampshire , and Maine .
Since 1970 , voters have more often supported liberal candidates at the  राज्य और संघीय स्तर than those of कोई अन्य प्रदेश  in the United States .
नई इंग्लैण्ड is the तभी एक of the संयुक्त राज्य जनसांख्यिकी ब्यूरो 's नौ  regional divisions whose name does not derive from its geography , and it is the only multi-state region with clear , consistent boundaries .
It maintains a strong sense of cultural identity set apart from the rest of the country ,  हालांकि the शर्तें of इस पहचान हैं प्रायः लडे , combining puritanism साथ उदारतावाद , कृषिक  life with industry , and isolation with immigration .
आपात  !
is an American television series that  combines the चिकित्सा नाटक और action-adventure  genres .
It was produced by Mark VII  सीमित और वितरित by सार्वभौमिक  Studios .
It  debuted as a midseason बदलना on जनवरी  15 , 1972 , on NBC , replacing the two short-lived series The Partners and The Good Life , and ran until September 3 , 1977 , with six additional two-hour television films during the following two years .
आपात  !
was created and produced by Jack Webb  और रॉबर्ट A. cinader , दोनो of जिसको  were also responsible for the police dramas Adam-12 and Dragnet .
The  पूर्वी समय मण्डल ( et ) encompasses 17 u.S. राज्य in the पूर्वी भाग  of the contiguous United States , parts of Canada and three countries in South America .
Places that use Eastern Standard  समय ( est ) जब observing मानक समय ( autumn/winter  ) are 5 hours behind Coordinated Universal Time ( ) .
Eastern Daylight Time ( EDT ) , when observing  daylight छायांकन समय ( spring/summer ) is 4 घंटों पीछे समन्वित  Universal Time ( ) .
In the northern parts of the time zone , during the second Sunday  in कूच , at 2:00 a.m. est , घड़ियाँ हैं उन्नत  to 3:00 a.m. EDT leaving a one hour `` gap . ''
During the first Sunday in November , at 2:00 a.m. EDT ,  घड़ियाँ हैं स्थानांतरित वापस to 1:00 a.m. est  , thus `` duplicating '' one hour .
Southern parts of the zone ( Panama and the Caribbean ) do not  observe daylight छायांकन  .
मानक रूप of the  periodic table .
The colors represent different  श्रेणी of तत्व समझाया  below .
The periodic table is a tabular  प्रदर्शक of the रासायनिक तत्व , व्यवस्थित  on the basis of their atomic numbers , electron configurations , and recurring chemical properties .
तत्व हैं प्रस्तुत  in order of increasing atomic number ( number of protons ) .
The  मानक रूप of तालिका comprises an 18 × 7 ग्रिड or  main body of elements , positioned above a smaller double row of elements .
The table can also be deconstructed into four rectangular blocks : the s-block to the left , the  p-block to the सही , the d-block in the मध्य , और  the f-block below that .
The rows of the table are called periods ; the columns  of the s- , d- , और p-blocks हैं पुकारा  groups , with some of these having names such as the halogens or the noble gases .
Since , by definition , a periodic table incorporates recurring trends , any such table can be used to derive relationships between  the गुण of the तत्व और भविष्यवाणी the गुण of नई , yet to be खोजा  or synthesized , elements .
As a result , a periodic table—whether in the standard form or some other variant—provides a  उपयोगी फ्रेमवर्क लिये analyzing रासायनिक बर्ताव ,  and such tables are widely used in chemistry and other sciences .
Although precursors exist ,  dmitri mendeleev is generally credited साथ the  publication , in 1869 , of the first widely recognized periodic table .
He developed his table to  illustrate आवधिक रुझान in the  properties of the then-known elements .
Mendeleev also predicted some properties of  then-unknown तत्व कि होता  be expected to fill gaps in this table .
Most of his predictions were proved correct when the elements in  सवाल यहूद subsequently खोजा  .
Mendeleev 's periodic table has since been expanded and refined with the  डिस्कवरी or संश्लेषण of further नई तत्व और the विकास of नई  theoretical models to explain chemical behavior .
All  तत्व इससे परमाणु  numbers 1 ( hydrogen ) to 118 ( ununoctium ) have been discovered or synthesized .
The elements from 1 to 98 ( californium ) have been found to exist naturally , although some are found only in trace amounts and were  initially खोजा by संश्लेषण in  laboratories .
The elements after 98 have only been  synthesized in laboratories  .
Production of elements beyond ununoctium is being pursued , with the question of how the periodic table may need to  be परिवर्धित to accommodate कोई ऐसे परिवर्धन  being a matter of ongoing debate .
Numerous synthetic radionuclides of naturally  occurring तत्व  have also been produced in laboratories .
Minecraft is a sandbox indie game  originally निर्मित by स्वीडिश प्रोग्रामर markus  `` Notch '' Persson and later developed and published by Mojang .
It was publicly released for the PC on May 17 , 2009 , as a developmental alpha version and , after gradual  अद्यतन , थी प्रकाशित as a पूरा रिलीज संस्करण on  November 18 , 2011 .
A  संस्करण लिये एंड्रॉइड थी released a माह पहले  on October 7 , and an iOS version was released on November 17 , 2011 .
On May 9 , 2012 , the game was released on Xbox 360  as an एक्सबॉक्स सजीव आर्केड खेल , co-developed  by 4J Studios .
All  संस्करण of minecraft  receive periodic updates .
The creative and building aspects of Minecraft allow players to build  constructions आउट of textured घन in a  3D procedurally generated world .
Other  क्रियाएँ in the खेल शामिल खोजी , महफ़िल  resources , crafting and combat .
Gameplay in its commercial release has two principal modes : survival , which requires  खिलाड़ी to acquire संसाधन और maintain उनके स्वास्थ्य और भूख ; और रचनात्मक , जहाँ खिलाड़ी have an असीमित सप्लाई of संसाधन  , the ability to fly , and no health or hunger .
A third gameplay mode named hardcore is the same as survival , differing only in difficulty ; it is set to hardest  सेटिंग और respawning is  disabled , forcing players to delete their worlds upon death .
Minecraft received five awards from the 2011 Game Developers Conference : it was awarded the Innovation Award , Best Downloadable Game Award , and the Best Debut Game Award from the Game Developers  चुनाव पुरस्कार ; और the दर्शक पुरस्कार , as खूब as the seumas mcnally ग्रैंड पुरस्कार , इससे the स्वतंत्र  Games Festival in 2011 .
In 2012 , Minecraft  थी awarded a सुनहरी जॉयस्टिक पुरस्कार  in the category Best Downloadable Game .
As of April 8 , 2013 , the game has sold over 10 million copies on PC and as of  जनवरी 22 , 2013 , over 20 लाख नक़ल आरपार सब प्लेटफ़ॉर्म  .
The Dark Knight is a 2008 British-American superhero film directed  , उत्पादित , और co-written by क्रिस्टोफर  Nolan .
Based on the DC Comics character  बैटमैन , the फिल्मी is the दूसरी भाग of नोलन 's बैटमैन फिल्मी श्रेणी  and a sequel to 2005 's Batman Begins .
Christian Bale reprises the lead role of Bruce Wayne/Batman , with a returning cast of  माइकल caine as अल्फ्रेड pennyworth , गेरी oldman as जेम्स गॉर्डन और मॉर्गन  Freeman as Lucius Fox .
The film introduces the character of Harvey Dent ( Aaron Eckhart ) , Gotham 's newly elected District Attorney and  the consort of ब्रूस वेन 's बाल्यकाल dost रेचल dawes ( मैगी जिलएनहॉल ) , जो joins बैटमैन और the  police in combating the new rising threat of a criminal mastermind calling himself `` The Joker `` ( Heath Ledger ) .
Nolan 's  प्रेरणा लिये the फिल्मी थी the जोकर 's कॉमिक किताब डेब्यू in 1940 , the 1988  graphic novel , and the 1996 series , which retold Two-Face 's origin .
The nickname `` the Dark Knight '' was first applied to  बैटमैन in बैटमैन no . 1 ( 1940 ) , in a स्टोरी  written by Bill Finger .
The Dark Knight  थी फिल्माया primarily in शिकागो , as खूब as in अनेक अन्य  locations in the United States , the United Kingdom , and Hong Kong .
Nolan used an IMAX camera to film some sequences ,  सहित the जोकर 's पहला रूप  in the film .
On January 22 , 2008 , some months after he  था समाप्त फिल्मांकन on the अंधेरा नाईट  and six months before the film 's release , Heath Ledger died from a toxic combination of prescription drugs , leading to intense attention from the press and movie-going public .
Warner Bros. had initially created a viral  विपणन अभियान लिये the अंधेरा नाईट , विकासशील promotional वेबसाइटों  and trailers highlighting screen shots of Ledger as the Joker , but after Ledger 's death , the studio refocused its promotional campaign .
The Dark Knight was released on July 16 , 2008 in Australia , on  जुलाई 18 , 2008 in उत्तर अमेरिका , और on जुलाई 24  , 2008 in the United Kingdom .
Considered one of  the बेहतरीन films of the 2000s और एक of the बेहतरीन सुपरहीरो films कभी  made , the film received highly positive reviews and set numerous records during its theatrical run .
With over $ 1 billion in revenue worldwide , it is the 14th-highest-grossing film of all time  , unadjusted लिये महंगाई  .
The film received eight Academy Award nominations ; it won  the पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन ध्वनि संपादन और लेजर थी मरणोपरांत  awarded Best Supporting Actor .
The Dark Knight Rises , the  फाइनल भाग of the त्रयी , थी released  on July 20 , 2012 .
The  समयरेखा of रेडियो सूचियाँ भीतर the इतिहास of रेडियो , the  technology and events that produced instruments that use radio waves and activities that people undertook .
Later , the history is  वर्चस्व by प्रोग्रामिंग और  contents , which is closer to general history .
The Sydney Opera House is a  multi-venue performing कला केन्द्र in नई दक्षिण वेल्स , ऑस्ट्रेलिया  .
It was conceived and largely built by Danish architect Jørn Utzon , opening  in 1973 बाद a long gestation कि  began with his competition-winning design in 1957 .
Joseph Cahill 's  नई दक्षिण वेल्स सरकारी दिया  the go-ahead for work to begin in 1958 .
The  सरकारी 's बिंदास निर्णय to चुनें  Utzon 's design is often overshadowed by the scandal that followed .
It is on Bennelong Point in Sydney  harbour , बंद to the सिडनी harbour सेतु  .
It sits at the northeastern tip of the Sydney central business district ( the  सीबीडी ) , घिरी on तीन पहलू by the harbour  ( Sydney Cove and Farm Cove ) and inland by the Royal Botanic Gardens .
Contrary to its  नाम , it घरों अनेक प्रदर्शन  venues .
It is among the busiest performing arts centres in the world , hosting over 1,500  प्रदर्शन प्रत्येक साल attended by कुछ 1.2 लाख लोगों  .
It provides a venue for many performing-arts companies , including the four key resident companies Opera Australia , The Australian  बैले , the सिडनी थिएटर कम्पनी और the सिडनी सिंफनी ऑर्केस्ट्रा , और presents a चौड़ी दायरा of प्रोडक्शन्स  on its own account .
It is also one  of the सबसे लोकप्रिय आगंतुक आकर्षण  in Australia , with more than seven million people visiting each year , 300,000 of whom take a guided tour .
It is administered by the  सिडनी ओपेरा हाउस विश्वास , अंतर्गत the  New South Wales Ministry of the Arts .
On 28 June 2007 , it was made a  युनेस्को संसार विरासत साईट  .
It is  एक of the 20th सदी 's सबसे distinctive इमारतें और  one of the most famous performing arts centres in the world .
A graph of body mass  अनुक्रमणिका as a फलन of देह द्रव्यमान और देह  height is shown above .
the dashed लाइनों  represent subdivisions within a major class .
For instance the `` Underweight ''  वर्गीकरण is further विभाजित into `` कठोर '' , `` मॉडरेट  '' , and `` mild '' subclasses .
The body mass index ( BMI ) , or Quetelet index , is a measure for human body shape based on  an व्यक्तिगत 's वज़न और ऊँचाई  .
It was devised between 1830 and 1850 by the Belgian polymath Adolphe  quetelet दौरान the कोर्स of विकासशील `` सोशल  physics '' .
Body mass index is defined as  the व्यक्तिगत 's देह द्रव्यमान विभाजित  by the square of their height .
the formulae universally प्रयुक्त in आयुर्विज्ञान  produce a unit of measure of kg/m2 .
बीएमआई can भी be संकल्पित using a बीएमआई चार्ट , जिससे प्रदर्शक बीएमआई as a फलन of वज़न ( आड़ा  axis ) and height ( vertical axis ) using contour lines for different values of BMI or colors for different BMI categories .
†  the फ़ैक्टर लिये uk/us इकाई is अधिक precisely  703.06957964 , but that level of precision is not meaningful for this calculation .
To work from stone and pounds first multiply the stone by 14 then add the pounds to give the whole mass  in पाउंड ; to कार्य इससे फीट और इंच पहला गुणा the फीट by 12 तब add the इंच  to give the whole height in inches .
Thomas Paine ( January 29 , 1737 ( NS  फ़रवरी 9 , 1737 ) – जून 8 , 1809 ) थी an english-american राजनैतिक  activist , author , political theorist and revolutionary .
As the author of two highly influential pamphlets at the start of the American Revolution , he  प्रेरित the देशप्रेमी in 1776 to घोषित स्वतंत्रता  from Britain .
His ideas reflected  आत्मज्ञान era बयानबाजी of transnational इंसान  rights .
He has  महरूम पुकारा `` a corsetmaker  by trade , a journalist by profession , and a propagandist by inclination . ''
Born in Thetford , England , in the county of Norfolk , Paine emigrated to the British American colonies in 1774 with the help of Benjamin  फ्रैंकलिन और he arrived in समय to participate in the अमरीकी क्रान्ति  .
His principal contributions were the powerful , widely read pamphlet Common Sense ( 1776 ) , the all-time best-selling American book that advocated colonial  अमेरिका 's स्वतंत्रता इससे the किंगडम of ग्रेट ब्रिटेन , और the अमरीकी संकट ( 1776–83 ) , a pro-revolutionary  pamphlet series .
Common Sense was so influential that John Adams said , `` Without the pen of the  लेखक of आम भाव , the तलवार of वॉशिंगटन होता  have been raised in vain.”
Paine lived in France for most of the 1790s , becoming  deeply शामिल in the फ्रेंच  Revolution .
He wrote the Rights of  man ( 1791 ) , in भाग a रक्षा  of the French Revolution against its critics .
उसके हमले on अंग्रेजों लेखक एडमंड बुर्के  led to a trial and conviction in absentia in 1792 for the crime of seditious libel .
In 1792 , despite not  होने समर्थ to बोलो फ्रेंच , he थी निर्वाचित  to the French National Convention .
The  girondists regarded  him as an ally .
Consequently , the Montagnards , especially  robespierre , regarded उसे  as an enemy .
in दिसम्बर 1793 ,  he was arrested and imprisoned in Paris , then released in 1794 .
He became notorious because of The Age of Reason (  1793–94 ) , उसके किताब कि अधिवक्ताओं देववाद , promotes कारण और freethinking  , and argues against institutionalized religion in general and Christian doctrine in particular .
he भी लिखा the pamphlet कृषिक इंसाफ ( 1795  ) , discussing the origins of property , and introduced the concept of a guaranteed minimum income .
In 1802 , he returned to America  जहाँ he died on जून  8 , 1809 .
Only six people attended his funeral as he  था महरूम ostracized लिये उसके उपहास  of Christianity .
Clinical trials are sets of tests in medical research and drug development that generate safety and efficacy data ( or more specifically  , सूचना परिचय प्रतिकूल ड्रग प्रतिक्रियाएँ और प्रतिकूल प्रभाव of अन्य उपचार ) लिये स्वास्थ्य  interventions ( e.g. , drugs , diagnostics , devices , therapy protocols ) .
They are conducted only after satisfactory  सूचना रै महरूम gathered on the विशेषता of the गैर नैदानिक सुरक्षा , और  health authority/ethics committee approval is granted in the country where approval of the drug or device is sought .
Previously , many emerging  देशों किया नहीं आवश्यकता लोकल ट्रायल लिये उत्पाद  approvals .
Now , though  उभरते देशों स्टिल accept आंकड़ा इससे u.s./europe  , they also require some local trials .
Depending on the type of  उत्पाद और the स्टेज of इसके विकास , जांचकर्ताओं initially enroll स्वयंसेवक and/or मरीजों into छोटी पायलट अध्ययन , और subsequently conduct  larger scale studies in patients that often compare the new product with others already approved for the affliction of interest .
As positive safety and  efficacy आंकड़ा हैं gathered , the क्रमांक  of patients is typically increased .
Clinical trials can vary in size , and can involve a single research  एंटिटी in एक देश or अनेक ऐसे entities in  multiple countries .
A full series of  ट्रायल may incur sizable लागत , और the बोझ of paying  for all the necessary people and services is usually borne by the sponsor , which may be a governmental organization or a pharmaceutical , biotechnology or medical device company .
When the diversity of required support roles exceeds the resources of the sponsor , a clinical trial is  प्रबंधित by an outsourced संगी , ऐसे as a अनुबंध  research organization or a clinical trials unit in the academic sector .
The Green Bay  पैकर्स हैं an अमरीकी  football team based in Green Bay , Wisconsin .
They are members of the North Division of the National  फ़ुटबॉल सम्मेलन ( nfc ) in  the National Football League ( NFL ) .
Green Bay is  the third-oldest मताधिकार in the एनएफएल  , having been organized and playing in 1919 .
The Packers are  the तभी non-profit , community-owned प्रमुख  league professional sports team in the United States .
The Packers are the last vestige of `` small  कस्बा टीमों '' कि यहूद एकबार आम  in the NFL during the 1920s and 1930s .
Founded in  1919 by अर्ल `` घुंघराले '' lambeau ( hence the नाम lambeau  Field on which the team plays ) and George Whitney Calhoun , the Green Bay Packers can trace their lineage to other semi-professional teams in Green Bay dating back to 1896 .
In 1919 and 1920 the Packers competed as a  semi-professional फ़ुटबॉल टोली विरूद्ध क्लब इससे around विस्कॉन्सिन  and the Midwest .
They joined the American Professional  फ़ुटबॉल संघ ( apfa ) in 1921 , the forerunner  to what is known today as the National Football League ( NFL ) .
Although Green Bay is the last NFL `` small town '' team , its local fan base and media extends  into आसपास मिल्वौकी ; the टोली  also played selected home games there between 1933 and 1994 .
The Green Bay Packers have won 13 league championships ( more than any other team in the  एनएफएल ) , सहित नौ एनएफएल championships prior to the सुपर कटोरी era और चार सुपर  Bowl victories —in 1967 ( Super Bowl I ) , 1968 ( Super Bowl II ) , 1997 ( Super Bowl XXXI ) and 2011 ( Super Bowl XLV ) .
The Packers have long-standing , bitter  rivalries साथ उनके nfc उत्तर ( formerly the nfc सेंट्रल  ) opponents , the Chicago Bears , Minnesota Vikings and the Detroit Lions .
The Bears-Packers rivalry is one of the oldest  rivalries in एनएफएल इतिहास , डेटिंग वापस  to 1921 .
Ethanol fuel is ethanol ( ethyl alcohol ) , the same type  of दारू मिला in alcoholic  beverages .
It is most  प्रायः प्रयुक्त as a मोटर ईंधन , मुख्यतः  as a biofuel additive for gasoline .
World ethanol production for transport fuel tripled between 2000 and 2007  इससे 17  billion to more than 52 billion liters .
From 2007 to 2008 , the share  of इथेनॉल in वैश्विक गैसोलीन प्रकार ईंधन  use increased from 3.7 % to 5.4 % .
In 2011 worldwide ethanol fuel production reached 22.36 billion U.S. liquid gallons ( bg ) ( 84.6 billion liters ) , with the United  राज्य as the शीर्ष निर्माता साथ 13.9 bg ( 52.6 अरब liters ) , हिसाब लिये 62.2 % of वैश्विक उत्पादन , followed  by Brazil with 5.6 bg ( 21.1 billion liters ) .
Ethanol fuel has a `` gasoline gallon equivalency `` ( GGE )  मान of , जिससे अर्थात् 1.5 गैलन of इथेनॉल उपज  the energy of one gallon of gasoline .
Ethanol fuel is widely used in Brazil  और in the संयुक्त राज्य , और साथ दोनो देशों यहूद जिम्मेदार लिये 87.1 % of the  world 's ethanol fuel production in 2011 .
सबसे गाड़ियाँ on the सड़क आज in the u.S. can चलाएं on मिश्रणों  of up to 10 % ethanol , and ethanol represented 10 % of the U.S. gasoline fuel supply derived from domestic sources in 2011 .
Since 1976 the  ब्राज़ीलियाई सरकारी रै बना it अनिवार्य to मिश्रण इथेनॉल साथ गैसोलीन , और चूंकि 2007 the  legal blend is around 25 % ethanol and 75 % gasoline ( E25 ) .
By December 2011 Brazil had a fleet of 14.8 million flex-fuel automobiles and light trucks and 1.5 million flex-fuel  मोटरसाइकिल कि regularly उपयोग neat  ethanol fuel ( known as E100 ) .
Bioethanol is a  रूप of बेदर्दी उर्जा  that can be produced from agricultural feedstocks .
It can be made from very common crops  ऐसे as शुगर cane , आलू ,  manioc and corn .
There has been considerable debate about how useful bioethanol  होगा be in replacing  gasoline .
Concerns about its production and use relate to increased  खाना कीमतें due to the विशाल राशि of arable जमीन जरूरी लिये फसलों  , as well as the energy and pollution balance of the whole cycle of ethanol production , especially from corn .
Recent  developments साथ cellulosic इथेनॉल उत्पादन  and commercialization may allay some of these concerns .
Cellulosic ethanol offers promise because cellulose fibers , a major and universal component in plant cells  दीवारें , can be प्रयुक्त to उपज  ethanol .
According to the International Energy Agency , cellulosic  इथेनॉल could allow इथेनॉल fuels to खेल a much बडे भूमिका in the भविष्य  than previously thought .
Saab 9-3  sportcombi biopower  .
The second E85 flexifuel model  introduced by साब in the स्वीडिश  market .
A plaque commemorating the location of the Sarajevo assassination and steps of Gavrilo  princip ( चित्र लिया in 1987 , पहले कदम यहूद removed in 1992  and plaque changed from Cyrillic to Latin script )
A plaque commemorating the location  of the साराजेवो हत्या ( चित्र  taken in 2009 )
On 28 June 1914 , Archduke Franz Ferdinand of  ऑस्ट्रिया , वारिस presumptive to the austro-hungarian सिंहासन , और उसके बीवी , सोफी , duchess of hohenberg ,  were shot dead in Sarajevo , by Gavrilo Princip , one of a group of six Bosnian Serb assassins coordinated by Danilo Ilić .
The  राजनैतिक उद्देश्य of the हत्या थी to ब्रेक बंद austria-hungary  's south-Slav provinces so they could be combined into a Greater Serbia or a Yugoslavia .
The assassins ' motives were  सतत साथ the गति  that later became known as Young Bosnia .
Serbian military  अधिकारियों stood पीछे the आक्रमण  .
At the top of these Serbian military conspirators was Chief of Serbian Military Intelligence Dragutin Dimitrijević , his righthand  man प्रमुख vojislav tankosić , और masterspy  Rade Malobabić .
Major Tankosić armed the  हत्यारे साथ बम और pistols  and trained them .
The assassins were given access to the  वही clandestine टनल of safe-houses और एजेंटों कि rade malobabić  used for the infiltration of weapons and operatives into Austria-Hungary .
The assassins , the key members of the clandestine tunnel , and the key Serbian military  षड्यंत्रकारियों जो यहूद स्टिल जिंदा यहूद गिरफ्तार , आजमाया  , convicted and punished .
Those who were arrested in Bosnia were tried in Sarajevo in  अक्तूबर 1914  .
The other conspirators were arrested and tried before a Serbian kangaroo court on the  french-controlled salonika सामने in 1916–1917 on unrelated गलत आरोप  ; Serbia executed three of the top military conspirators .
Much of what is known about the  assassinations आता इससे  these two trials and related records .
Assignment of responsibility for  the bombing और हत्याएं of 28 जून is अत्यधिक विवादास्पद क्युकी the आक्रमण led  to the outbreak of World War I one month later .
Renée  कैथलीन zellweger ( born अप्रैल  25 , 1969 ) is an American actress and producer .
Zellweger first gained widespread attention for her role in the film Jerry Maguire ( 1996 ) , and subsequently received two nominations for the Academy Award for Best  अभिनेत्री लिये उसके भूमिकाएँ as ब्रिजेट जोन्स in the कॉमेडी ब्रिजेट जोन्स 's डायरी ( 2001 ) , और as roxie हार्ट in the musical  Chicago ( 2002 ) .
She won the Academy Award  लिये बेहतरीन supporting अभिनेत्री लिये उसके प्रदर्शन in the नाटक  Cold Mountain ( 2003 ) .
She has won  an अकादमी पुरस्कार , तीन सुनहरी ग्लोब पुरस्कार , तीन स्क्रीन अभिनेताओं गिल्ड पुरस्कार , और a bafta पुरस्कार  ; was named Hasty Pudding 's Woman of the Year in 2009 ; and established herself as one of the highest-paid Hollywood actresses as of 2007 .
The ossicles ( also called auditory ossicles ) are the three smallest bones in the human body , the  malleus ,  the incus and the stapes .
They are contained within the middle ear space and  serve to संचारण ध्वनि इससे the एयर to the fluid-filled  labyrinth ( cochlea ) .
The absence of the auditory ossicles would constitute a  moderate-to-severe सुनना घाटा  .
The term `` ossicles '' literally means `` tiny bones '' and commonly refers to the auditory  ossicles , हालांकि the पद may refer to कोई छोटी अस्थि throughout  the body .
The New  वचन ( यहूदी • • — यूनानी • • diatheke kaine ) is a biblical  interpretation originally derived from a phrase in the Book of Jeremiah , in the Hebrew Scriptures .
It is often thought of as an  eschatological मुक्तिदाता आयु or संसार to आइये और is सम्बन्धित to the biblical  concept of the Kingdom of God .
Generally ,  ईसाइयों मानना कि the नई वचन थी instituted at  the Last Supper as part of the Eucharist , which in the Gospel of John includes the New Commandment .
There are several Christian eschatologies  कि further define the नई वचन , as an उदाहरण an उदघाटन eschatology defines और describes the नई वचन as an जारी संबंध between  Christian believers and God that will be in full fruition after the Second Coming of Christ ; that is , it will not only be in full fruition in believing hearts , but in the future external world as well .
The connection between the Blood of Christ and the New Covenant is seen in  सबसे आधुनिक अंग्रेज़ी अनुवाद of the नई वसीयत साथ the saying  : `` this cup that is poured out for you is the new covenant in my blood '' .
Christians believe that Jesus is the mediator of the New Covenant , and that the Blood of Christ shed at his  crucifixion is the  required blood of the covenant .
As with all  covenants between परमेश्वर और man वर्णित in  the Bible , the New Covenant is considered `` a bond in blood sovereignly administered by God . ''
It has been theorized  कि the नई वचन is the विधि of  Christ as spoken during his Sermon on the Mount .
The following List  of लोगों pardoned or granted दया by the अध्यक्ष  of the United States documents the most prominent cases of each presidency .
As granted by the Constitution ( Article II  , खण्ड 2 , clause 1 ) , राष्ट्रपतियों have the शक्ति to ग्रान्ट दया in एक  or more of the following ways : the ability to grant a full pardon , to commute a sentence , or to rescind a fine .
U.S. Presidents  have no शक्ति to ग्रान्ट दया  for crimes prosecuted under state law .
As to the  अंतर between a pardon और  a commutation:
A pardon is an  कार्यपालिका अनुक्रम vacating  a conviction .
A commutation is the mitigation of the sentence of someone currently serving a sentence for a crime pursuant to a conviction ,  बगैर vacating the conviction  itself .
Approximately  20,000 pardons और clemencies  were issued by U.S. presidents in the 20th century alone .
The records of acts of clemency were  पब्लिक जबतक 1934  .
In 1981 the Office of the Pardon Attorney was created  और रिकॉर्ड इससे अध्यक्ष  H. W. Bush forward are now listed .
This list includes pardons  और commutations  .
Tampa ( )  is a नगर in the u.S. राज्य  of Florida .
It serves as the county seat for  hillsborough काउंटी और is स्तिथ on the वेस्ट coast of फ्लोरिडा  , on Tampa Bay near the Gulf of Mexico .
The population of  tampa in 2011  was 346,037 .
The current location of Tampa was once inhabited by indigenous peoples of the Safety Harbor culture  , सबसे notably the tocobaga और the pohoy , जो जिया साथ the shores  of Tampa Bay .
It was briefly explored by Spanish explorers in the  जल्दी 16th सदी , लकिन वहीँ यहूद no स्थाई अमरीकी or यूरोपीय  settlements within today 's city limits until after the United States had acquired Florida from Spain in 1819 .
In 1824 , the United States Army established a frontier outpost called  फोर्ट ब्रुक at the मुँह of the hillsborough  River , near the site of today 's Tampa Convention Center .
The first civilian residents were pioneers who settled near the fort for protection from the  आसपास seminole जनसांख्यिकी  .
The town grew slowly until the 1880s , when railroad links , the discovery of phosphate , and the arrival  of the सिगार उद्योग jump-started tampa 's विकास और helped it to grow  into an important city by the early 1900s .
Today ,  tampa is a भाग of  the metropolitan area most commonly referred to as the Tampa Bay Area .
लिये u.S. जनसांख्यिकी उद्देश्य  , Tampa is part of the Tampa-St. Petersburg-Clearwater , Florida Metropolitan Statistical Area .
The four-county area is composed of roughly 2.7 million residents , making it the second largest metropolitan  सांख्यिकीय क्षेत्रफल ( एमएसए ) in the राज्य , और the चौथी largest in the southeastern  United States , behind Miami , Washington , D.C. , and Atlanta .
The  वृहद tampa खाड़ी क्षेत्रफल रै बस over  4 million residents and generally includes the Tampa and Sarasota metro areas .
The Tampa Bay Partnership and U.S. Census data  दिखाया an औसत सालाना विकास of 2.47 प्रतिशत  , or a gain of approximately 97,000 residents per year .
Between 2000 and 2006 , the Greater  tampa खाड़ी मार्केट अनुभवी a संयुक्त विकास रेट of 14.8 प्रतिशत , growing  from 3.4 million to 3.9 million and hitting the 4 million people mark on April 1 , 2007 .
A 2012 estimate shows the Tampa Bay area population to have  4,310,524 लोगों और a 2017 प्रक्षेप  of 4,536,854 people .
Tampa has a number of sports teams , such as  the tampa खाड़ी buccaneers of the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग , the tampa खाड़ी बिजली of  the National Hockey League , and the Tampa Bay Storm of the Arena Football League .
The Tampa Bay Rays in Major League Baseball and the Tampa Bay Rowdies of  the उत्तर अमरीकी सॉकर लीग खेल उनके घर खेल in neighboring st.  Petersburg , Florida .
In 2008 , Tampa was ranked as  the 5th बेहतरीन बाहरी नगर  by Forbes .
A 2004 survey by the NYU  समाचारपत्र वॉशिंगटन वर्गाकार न्यूज क्रमित tampa as  a top city for `` twenty-somethings . ''
Tampa  is अभी क्रमित as a `` गामा  '' world city by Loughborough University .
according to loughborough  , Tampa ranks alongside other world cities such as Phoenix , Santo Domingo , and Osaka .
In recent  सालो tampa रै देखी a notable upsurge  in high-market demand from consumers , signaling more wealth concentrated in the area .
tampa hosted the 2012  Republican National Convention .
The  शेवरलेट cavalier थी  a compact automobile produced from 1982 to 2005 by General Motors .
Built on the company 's J platform , the  cavalier उत्पादित the उच्चतम  sales in 1984 .
AT & T Mobility LLC branded and referred to as AT & T ( formerly Cingular Wireless LLC ) , is a wholly owned subsidiary of AT & T  inc. कि provides बेतार सेवाएं to 107 लाख सदस्य in the संयुक्त राज्य , सहित  Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands .
AT & T Mobility is  the दूसरी largest बेतार दूरसंचार प्रदाता in the  United States and Puerto Rico , behind Verizon Wireless , which serves 115.78 million customers as of the fourth quarter of 2012 .
AT & T Mobility is headquartered in  the lenox पार्क क्षेत्रफल of dekalb co. जॉर्जिया  , just outside Atlanta .
Originally Cingular  बेतार llc इससे 2000 to 2007 , a संयुक्त venture between sbc संचार और bellsouth , the कम्पनी acquired  the old AT & T Wireless in 2004 ; SBC later acquired the original AT & T and re-branded as `` AT & T '' .
Cingular became wholly owned by AT & T in  दिसम्बर 2006 as a परिणाम of at & t  's acquisition of BellSouth .
In January 2007 , Cingular confirmed it  होता re-brand itself अंतर्गत the at &  T name .
Although the legal corporate name change occurred immediately , for both  नियामक और brand-awareness कारण दोनो ब्रांड्स यहूद प्रयुक्त  in the company 's signage and advertising during a transition period .
The transition concluded in late June , just prior  to the rollout of the ठहराना  iPhone .
On March 20 ,  2011 , at & t गतिशीलता घोषित इसके इरादे  to acquire T-Mobile USA from Deutsche Telekom for $ 39 billion .
If it had received government and regulatory approval , AT  & t होता have था अधिक than 130 लाख  subscribers .
However , the U.S. Department of Justice , the Federal  संचार आयोग , और at & t गतिशीलता 's प्रतिस्पर्धी ( ऐसे as स्प्रिंट nextel  ) opposed the move on the grounds that it would reduce competition in the cellular communications market .
In December 2011 , in the face of both governmental and  फैली उपभोक्ता विपक्ष , at & t withdrew उनके प्रस्ताव  to complete the merger .
Martin Luther  किंग , jr. ( जनवरी 15 , 1929 – अप्रैल 4 , 1968 )  was an American clergyman , activist , and leader in the African-American Civil Rights Movement .
He is  बेहतरीन ज्ञात लिये उसके भूमिका in the उन्नति  of civil rights using nonviolent civil disobedience .
किंग रै become a नेशनल  icon in the history of American progressivism .
A  बैपटिस्ट मंत्री , किंग became  a civil rights activist early in his career .
He led the 1955 Montgomery Bus Boycott and helped  मिला the दक्षिणी ईसाई नेतृत्व सम्मेलन ( sclc  ) in 1957 , serving as its first president .
With the SCLC , King led an unsuccessful struggle against segregation in Albany , Georgia , in 1962 , and  व्यवस्थित nonviolent विरोध in बर्मिंघम , अलबामा , कि आकर्षित नेशनल ध्यान following टेलीविज़न न्यूज  coverage of the brutal police response .
King also helped to organize the 1963 March on Washington , where he  वितरित उसके `` i have  a Dream `` speech .
There , he established his  प्रतिष्ठा as एक of the महानतम orators in अमरीकी  history .
He also established his reputation as a radical , and became an object of the Federal Bureau of Investigation 's  cointelpro लिये the बाकी of उसके जीवन  .
FBI agents investigated him for possible communist ties , recorded  उसके extramarital liaisons और reported on उन्हें to सरकारी officials , और on  one occasion , mailed King a threatening anonymous letter that he interpreted as an attempt to make him commit suicide .
On October 14 , 1964  , किंग प्राप्त the नोबेल सलाम  Prize for combating racial inequality through nonviolence .
In 1965 , he and the SCLC helped to organize the Selma to Montgomery marches and the  following साल , he took the गति उत्तर to  Chicago .
In the final years of his life ,  किंग विस्तारित उसके फ़ोकस to शामिल गरीबी और the वियतनाम युद्ध  , alienating many of his liberal allies with a 1967 speech titled `` Beyond Vietnam '' .
King was planning a national  occupation of वॉशिंगटन , d.C. , पुकारा the  Poor People 's Campaign .
King was assassinated on April 4 , 1968  , in मेम्फिस ,  Tennessee .
His death was followed by riots  in अनेक u.S. शहरों  .
Allegations that James Earl Ray , the man convicted of killing King , had been framed or acted in concert with government agents  persisted लिये दशकों बाद the शूटिंग , और  the jury of a 1999 civil trial found Loyd Jowers to be complicit in a conspiracy against King .
किंग थी awarded the अध्यक्षीय  Medal of Freedom and the Congressional Gold Medal posthumously .
Martin Luther King ,  jr. दिन थी स्थापित as  a U.S. federal holiday in 1986 .
Hundreds of streets in the U.S.  have महरूम renamed in उसके  honor .
A memorial  प्रतिमा on the नेशनल मॉल थी खोली  to the public in 2011 .
The tiger (  पेंथेरा tigris ) is the largest बिल्ली प्रजाति , reaching  a total body length of up to and weighing up to .
It is the third largest land  carnivore ( पीछे तभी the ध्रुवीय  bear and the brown bear ) .
Its most recognizable feature is a pattern of dark vertical stripes on  reddish-orange फर साथ a हल्का underside  .
It has exceptionally stout teeth , and the canines are the longest  among जीना felids साथ a क्राउन ऊँचाई of as much as or भी  .
In  zoos , टाइगर्स have  lived for 20 to 26 years , which also seems to be their longevity in the wild .
They are territorial and generally solitary but social animals , often requiring  विशाल संलग्न क्षेत्रों of आवास कि support उनके शिकार  requirements .
This , coupled with the fact that they are indigenous to some of the more densely populated places on Earth ,  रै caused significant विरोध साथ इंसानो  .
Tigers once ranged widely across Asia , from Turkey in the west to the  पूर्वी coast of रूस  .
Over the  पास्ट 100 सालो , वे have खोया 93 % of उनके ऐतिहासिक दायरा , और have  been extirpated from southwest and central Asia , from the islands of Java and Bali , and from large areas of Southeast and Eastern Asia .
Today , they range  इससे the siberian ताइगा to खोलें grasslands  and tropical mangrove swamps .
The remaining six tiger  subspecies have  been classified as endangered by IUCN .
The global  जनसांख्यिकी in the जंगली is अनुमानित to क्रमांक between 3,062 और 3,948 individuals , bas  from around 100,000 at the start of the 20th century , with most remaining populations occurring in small pockets isolated from each other .
प्रमुख कारण लिये जनसांख्यिकी  decline include habitat destruction , habitat fragmentation and poaching .
The extent of  क्षेत्रफल occupied by टाइगर्स is अनुमानित at कम  than , a 41 % decline from the area estimated in the mid-1990s .
Tigers are among the most recognisable and  लोकप्रिय of the संसार 's charismatic  megafauna .
They have  प्रदर्शित prominently in प्राचीन mythology  and folklore , and continue to be depicted in modern films and literature .
Tigers  appear on अनेक ध्वज , coats  of arms , and as mascots for sporting teams .
The Bengal tiger  is the नेशनल एनिमल  of both India and Bangladesh .
The simplified  आतंरिक ढांचा  of a chloroplast
Overview of the  calvin साईकिल और  carbon fixation
The light-independent  प्रतिक्रियाएँ of photosynthesis हैं रासायनिक  reactions that convert carbon dioxide and other compounds into glucose .
These reactions occur in the stroma , the  fluid-filled क्षेत्रफल of a हरितलवक बाहर of  the thylakoid membranes .
These reactions take the  light-dependent प्रतिक्रियाएँ और  perform further chemical processes on them .
There are three phases  to the light-independent प्रतिक्रियाएँ , collectively पुकारा the calvin साईकिल : कार्बन fixation , कटौती  reactions , and ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate ( RuBP ) regeneration .
Despite its name , this process  occurs तभी जब लाइट  is available .
Plants do  नहीं carry आउट the calvin  cycle by night .
They , instead , release sucrose into the  फ्लोएम इससे उनके मंड  reserves .
This process  happens जब लाइट is उपलब्धियाँ स्वतंत्र of the दयालु of photosynthesis ( c3 कार्बन fixation , c4 कार्बन fixation  , and Crassulacean Acid Metabolism ) ; CAM plants store malic acid in their vacuoles every night and release it by day in order to make this process work .
A linen handkerchief with  खींचा लड़ी कढ़ाई around  the edges
Linen cloth recovered from Qumran  गुफा 1 निकट the मुर्दे  Sea .
Linen ( ) is a textile made from the  मछली of the flax संयंत्र , linum  usitatissimum .
Linen is labor-intensive to manufacture ,  लकिन जब it is बना into  garments , it is valued for its exceptional coolness and freshness in hot weather .
The word `` linen ''  is of वेस्ट germanic उत्पत्ति और cognates साथ the लैटिन नाम  for the flax plant linum , and the earlier Greek λινόν ( linon ) .
This word history has given rise to a number of  अन्य शर्तें in अंग्रेज़ी , the सबसे notable of जिससे is the अंग्रेज़ी शब्द लकीर  , derived from the use of a linen ( flax ) thread to determine a straight line .
वस्त्र in a लिनेन बुनते बनावट , भी जब बना  of cotton , hemp and other non-flax fibers are also loosely referred to as `` linen '' .
Such fabrics generally  have उनके अपना विशिष्ट names अन्य than लिनेन ; लिये  example , fine cotton yarn in a linen-style weave is called Madapolam .
The collective term `` linens `` is still often used generically to describe a class of woven and  भी knitted bed , नहाना , तालिका और रसोईघर वस्त्र  .
The  नाम linens is retained क्युकी traditionally , लिनेन  was used for many of these items .
In the past , the word `` linens '' was also used to mean lightweight  undergarments ऐसे as शर्ट , chemises , waistshirts , lingerie  ( a word also cognate with linen ) , and detachable shirt collars and cuffs , which were historically made almost exclusively out of linen .
The inside cloth layer of fine  कम्पोजिट कपडे garments ( as लिये उदाहरण jackets ) थी traditionally  made of linen , and this is the origin of the word lining .
Linen textiles appear to be some of the oldest in  the संसार : उनके  history goes back many thousands of years .
Fragments of straw , seeds , fibers , yarns , and various types of fabrics which  तिथि वापस to परिचय 8000 bc have महरूम मिला in  Swiss lake dwellings .
Dyed flax fibers found in a prehistoric cave in Georgia suggest the use of  woven लिनेन fabrics इससे जंगली flax may तिथि वापस  even earlier to 36,000 BP .
Linen was sometimes used as currency in  प्राचीन मिश्र .
Egyptian  mummies यहूद लपेटा in लिनेन क्युकी  it was seen as a symbol of light and purity , and as a display of wealth .
कुछ of ये fabrics , woven इससे हाथ spun yarns ,  were very fine for their day , but are coarse compared to modern linen .
Today , linen is usually an expensive textile ,  और is उत्पादित in अपेक्षाकृत छोटी  quantities .
It has a long `` staple '' ( individual fiber  लंबाई ) सापेक्ष to कपास और अन्य प्राकृतिक  fibers .
Many products are made of linen : aprons ,  बैग , तौलिये ( swimmers , नहाना , बीच , देह और धो तौलिये  ) , napkins , bed linens , linen tablecloths , runners , chair covers , and men 's & women 's wear .
The FIFA World Cup , often simply the World Cup , is an  अंतरराष्ट्रीय संघ फ़ुटबॉल प्रतियोगिता लडे by the वरिष्ठ मेन 's नेशनल टीमों  of the members of Fédération Internationale de Football Association ( FIFA ) , the sport 's global governing body .
The championship has been  awarded प्रत्येक  four years since the inaugural tournament in 1930 , except in 1942 and 1946 when it was not held because of the Second World War .
The current  champions हैं स्पेन , जो  won the 2010 tournament .
The current format of the tournament involves 32 teams competing for the title at venues  भीतर the मेजबान स्वदेश ( s ) over a काल  of about a month ; this phase is often called the World Cup Finals .
A qualification phase , which currently takes place over the preceding three years , is used to  determine जिससे टीमों qualify लिये the टूर्नामेंट साथ साथ  the host nation ( s ) .
The 19 World Cup tournaments have been won by  आठ अलग नेशनल  teams .
Brazil have won five times , and they  हैं the तभी टोली to  have played in every tournament .
The other World Cup winners are Italy , with four titles ; Germany , with three titles ; Argentina and inaugural winners  उरुग्वे , साथ दो शीर्षक प्रत्येक ; और इंग्लैण्ड , फ़्रांस , और स्पेन , साथ एक  title each .
The World Cup is the world 's most widely viewed sporting event ; an  अनुमानित 715.1 लाख लोगों  watched the final match of the 2006 FIFA World Cup held in Germany .
The next three World Cups will be hosted by Brazil in  2014 , रूस in 2018 , और क़तर in  2022 .
The is an expansion device for the Wii Remote video game controller  लिये the वी कि allows  it to more accurately capture complex motion .
According to  निन्टेंडो , the सेंसर in the यंत्र पूरक the  accelerometer and Sensor Bar capabilities of the Wii Remote to enable actions to be rendered identically on the screen in real time .
The Wii 's successor console , the Wii U , supports the Wii MotionPlus and its peripherals in games where use of its touchscreen-built-in primary controller  is नहीं जरुरी .
majulah singapura ( onward  Singapore ) is the national anthem of Singapore .
रचित by zubir कहा in 1958 as a थीम सोंग लिये आधिकारिक  functions of the City Council of Singapore , the song was selected in 1959 as the island 's anthem when it attained self-government .
Upon full independence in 1965 , Majulah Singapura was formally adopted as  सिंगापुर 's नेशनल  anthem .
By law the anthem may only be sung with its original Malay lyrics  , हालांकि वहीँ मौजूद प्राधिकृत अनुवाद of the  lyrics of the anthem in Singapore 's three other official languages : English , Mandarin and Tamil .
Originally composed in the key of G major , in 2001 the national anthem was  officially relaunched in the निम्नतर कुंजी of f प्रमुख as इस थी कहा to allow लिये a ``  grander and more inspiring arrangement '' .
The national anthem is regularly performed or sung in schools and armed forces camps at ceremonies held at the beginning and/or the end of each day ,  दौरान जिससे the नेशनल ध्वज is भी उठाया और lowered और the नेशनल  pledge is taken .
Singaporeans are especially  प्रोत्साहित to गाओ the नेशनल गान on अवसरों of नेशनल जश्न or नेशनल significance ऐसे as at the  National Day Parade , at National Day observance ceremonies conducted by educational institutions and government departments , and at sporting events at which Singapore teams are participating .
An  expedition 's  shipwrights building a brigantine , 1541 .
shipbuilding is the निर्माण of जहाजों  and floating vessels .
It normally takes place in a  specialized सुविधा ज्ञात as a डॉकयार्ड .
Shipbuilders , also  पुकारा shipwrights , follow a specialized occupation  that traces its roots to before recorded history .
shipbuilding और जलयान मरम्मत ,  both commercial and military , are referred to as `` naval engineering '' .
The construction of  नौकाएँ is a समान कार्यकलाप  called boat building .
The dismantling of ships is  पुकारा जलयान तोड़कर  .
wakonda is a कस्बा in मिट्टी काउंटी  , South Dakota , United States .
The  जनसांख्यिकी थी  321 at the 2010 census .
The following is a list of the most populous  incorporated स्थान of the संयुक्त राज्य of अमेरिका  .
As defined by the United States Census Bureau , an ``  incorporated प्लेस `` शामिल a किस्में of designations  , including city , town , village , borough , and municipality .
A few exceptional  जनसांख्यिकी designated स्थान ( cdps ) हैं  also included in the Census Bureau 's listing of incorporated places .
संचित city-counties represent a पृथक प्रकार of सरकारी  that includes the entire population of a county , or county equivalent .
Some  संचित city-counties  , however , include multiple incorporated places .
This list presents only that portion (  or `` संतुलन  '' ) of such consolidated city-counties that are not a part of another incorporated place .
Note that this list refers only to  the जनसांख्यिकी of व्यक्तिगत municipalities भीतर  their defined limits , which does not include other municipalities or unincorporated suburban areas within urban agglomerations .
A different ranking is evident when considering U.S.  महानगर क्षेत्रफल  populations .
alt=Larger  flashcart , दिखाया साथ छोटी  card and U.S. quarter for size
Nintendo DS storage devices are devices used to store a licensed developer 's  work-in-progress बिंब , homebrew वीडियो खेल और डाउनलोड वाणिज्यिक खेल ( चूंकि the निन्टेंडो ds is नहीं  sold with a rewritable storage medium ) .
Licensed  डेवलपर , however , can उपयोग a ब्लू बुद्धिमान  Systems Nitro Emulator box to flash cards .
These devices are  भी ज्ञात as `` flashcarts  '' or `` flashcards '' .
There are two main classes of flashcarts : older devices which  अनुरूप in slot-2 ( the खेल लड़के अग्रिम खेल पाक  slot ) and newer devices that fit in Slot-1 ( the DS Game Card slot ) .
Slot-2 ( or first-generation ) devices have been historically cheaper due to economies of scale ( inherited from their use  साथ खेल लड़के अग्रिम ) , लकिन आवश्यकता a booting औजार  in Slot-1 in order to use the touch screen and other DS features .
Second-generation devices ( those which only use Slot-1 ) do not work with GBA  homebrew , लकिन became कम महंगी और easier to उपयोग , rivaling अनेक slot-2 डिवाइस  in price .
First-generation  डिवाइस शामिल gba फ्लैश कारतूस  , GBAMP CF , SuperCard , and M3 .
Second-generation devices include R4  क्रान्ति , cyclods , g6 रियल और  DS-X .
The storage device either  contains फ्लैश मेमोरी or a स्लॉट  for a memory card to store homebrew .
Storage devices with a memory-card  स्लॉट प्रायः have अधिक भंडार क्षमता than  flash-memory devices .
Although flash-memory capacity is usually measured  in megabits ( mb ) , memory-card  capacity is usually measured in megabytes ( MB ) ( where 8 Mb is 1 MB ) .
Storage-device brands differ in their support  लिये homebrew ; ds और खेल लड़के अग्रिम roms  ; special features ( such as ability to play media files ) ; physical size and cost .
Strictly speaking , a storage device is not  जरुरी लिये ds साथ flashme संस्थापित क्युकी  homebrew can be sent to the DS using WMB .
However , this is not an easily-portable method because the DS needs to be  भीतर दायरा of a उपयुक्त wi-fi  card .
हैं अमरीकी लोगों  of Japanese heritage .
Japanese Americans have historically been among the three largest Asian American  समुदायों , लकिन in हाल दशकों , it रै become the छठे largest समूह at roughly  1,304,286 , including those of mixed-race or mixed-ethnicity .
In the 2010 census , the largest Japanese American communities were found in California with 272,528 , Hawaii with 185,502 , New York with  37,780 , वॉशिंगटन साथ 35,008 , और इलिनोइस साथ  17,542 .
Southern California has the  largest japanese-american  population in North America .
200px
This is a comprehensive listing which highlights significant achievements and milestones based upon Billboard magazine  's singles चार्ट , सबसे notably the बिलबोर्ड hot 100  .
This list spans from the  समस्या दिनाँक जनवरी 1 , 1955 to  present .
The Billboard Hot 100 began with the issue dated August 4 ,  1958 , और is फिलहाल the मानक लोकप्रिय म्यूज़िक चार्ट  in the United States .
Prior to the creation of the Hot 100 , Billboard published four singles charts : `` Best Sellers in Stores '' ,  `` सबसे निभाई by jockeys '' , `` सबसे निभाई in jukeboxes '' और ``  The Top 100 '' .
These charts , which ranged  इससे 20 to 100 स्लॉट , यहूद phased आउट  at different times between 1957 and 1958 .
हालांकि technically नहीं भाग of the hot  100 chart history , their data is included for computational purposes , and to avoid unenlightening or misleading characterizations .
All items listed below are from the Hot 100 era ,  जबतक वरना विख्यात ( pre-hot 100  charts ) .
V is an American science fiction television series that ran for two  सीज़न on एबीसी , इससे नवम्बर 3 , 2009 to कूच  15 , 2011 .
A remake of the 1983  miniseries निर्मित by केनेथ जॉनसन , the नई श्रेणी क्रॉनिकल्स the आगमन  on Earth of a technologically advanced alien species which ostensibly comes in peace , but actually has sinister motives .
V stars Morena Baccarin , Lourdes Benedicto , Morris Chestnut ,  जोएल gretsch , लोगन huffman , चार्ल्स mesure , एलिज़ाबेथ मिशेल , लौरा  Vandervoort and Scott Wolf , and was executive produced by Scott Rosenbaum , Yves Simoneau , Scott Peters , and Jace Hall .
The series was produced by The Scott  पीटर्स कम्पनी , hdfilms और warner भाईs. टेलीविज़न  .
Geocaching is an outdoor recreational activity , in which the participants  उपयोग a वैश्विक positioning प्रणाली ( gps ) receiver or मोबाईल यंत्र और अन्य navigational तकनीकों  to hide and seek containers , called `` geocaches '' or `` caches '' , anywhere in the world .
A typical cache is a small waterproof container containing a logbook where the  geocacher enters the तिथि वे मिला it और लक्षण  it with their established code name .
After signing into the log , the cache  जरूर be लगाई वापस exactly जहाँ  the person found it .
Larger containers  ऐसे as प्लास्टिक भंडार containers ( tupperware or समान )  or ammunition boxes can also contain items for trading , usually toys or trinkets of little value .
geocaching साझा  many aspects with benchmarking , trigpointing , orienteering , treasure-hunting , letterboxing , and waymarking .
Boogie Down Productions was a hip  हॉप समूह कि  was originally composed of KRS-One , D-Nice , and DJ Scott La Rock .
DJ Scott La  चट्टान थी murdered on अगस्त 27 , 1987 , महीने  after the release of BDP 's debut album , Criminal Minded .
The name of the group , Boogie Down ,  गर्भाशयी इससे a उपनाम लिये the दक्षिण bronx खण्ड of the bronx ,  one of the five boroughs of New York City .
The group  pioneered the संलयन of डांसहॉल रेगी और हिप हॉप म्यूज़िक और उनके डेब्यू lp  Criminal Minded contained frank descriptions of life in the South Bronx of the late 1980s thus setting the stage for what would eventually become gangsta rap .
a नगरपालिका बंध is a बंध जारी  by a local government , or their agencies .
Potential issuers of municipal bonds include states ,  शहरों , काउंटी , redevelopment एजेंसियों , special-purpose जिले , स्कूल जिले  , public utility districts , publicly owned airports and seaports , and any other governmental entity ( or group of governments ) at or below the state level .
Municipal bonds may be general obligations of the issuer or  secured by निर्दिष्ट revenues  .
In the United States , interest income received by holders of municipal bonds is often exempt from the federal income tax and from the income tax of the state in which they are issued , although  नगरपालिका bonds जारी लिये निश्चित उद्देश्य  may not be tax exempt .
Unlike new issue stocks that are brought to market with price restrictions until the deal is  बेची , नगरपालिका bonds हैं फ़्री to व्यापार at कोई समय एकबार वे  are purchased by the investor .
Professional traders regularly  व्यापार और retrade the वही bonds अनेक  times a week .
`` Gim me Some Lovin ' '' is a song written  by स्टीव winwood , स्पेंसर  Davis and Muff Winwood , and originally performed by The Spencer Davis Group .
The basic riff of the song was borrowed from the Homer  बैंको सोंग `` ( ai n't कि ) a लॉट of प्रेम '' , लिखा  by Banks and Willie Dean `` Deanie '' Parker .
`` Gim me Some Lovin ' '' was a UK  # 2 in the पतझड़ of 1966  and a US # 7 .
The song is ranked # 247 on the Rolling Stone  पत्रिका 's सूची of the 500 महानतम  Songs of All Time .
The version issued in the UK ( and probably most of Europe ) is different from  कि जारी in the us on the संयुक्त कलाकारों  label , being slower , and lacking the backing vocals and `` live sounding '' performance found on the US single .
( The US version has more often  महरूम प्रयुक्त on reissue cds , भी those  coming from Europe . )
The single  सुविधाएँ the ध्वनि of the  Hammond B-3 organ .
The Internet Movie Database ( IMDb ) is an  ऑनलाइन डेटाबेस of सूचना सम्बन्धित to films , टेलीविज़न  programs , and video games .
This includes actors , production crew personnel , and fictional  वर्ण प्रदर्शित in ये तीन विज़ुअल  entertainment media .
It is one of  the सबसे लोकप्रिय ऑनलाइन entertainment गंतव्यों , साथ  over 100 million unique users each month and a solid and rapidly growing mobile presence .
IMDb was  शुभारम्भ on अक्तूबर 17 , 1990 , और in  1998 was acquired by Amazon.com .
As of April 27 , 2013 , IMDb had 2,503,783 titles ( includes episodes )  और 5,192,493 personalities in इसके डेटाबेस , as खूब as 43 लाख  registered users .
The website has an Alexa  रैंक of  48 .
Fibre Channel Host Bus Adapter (  64-bit pci-x कार्ड  )
SCSI  मेजबान बस एडाप्टर  ( 16-bit ISA card )
In computer hardware , a host controller , host adapter , or host bus adapter (  hba ) connects a मेजबान प्रणाली ( the कंप्यूटर  ) to other network and storage devices .
The terms are primarily used to refer to devices for connecting SCSI , Fibre Channel and eSATA  डिवाइस  .
However , devices for connecting to  आईडीई , ईथरनेट , firewire , usb और अन्य  systems may also be called host adapters .
Recently , the advent of iSCSI and Fibre Channel over Ethernet has brought about Ethernet HBAs , which are different from Ethernet NICs  in कि वे शामिल टीसीपी offload इंजन  .
There are also converged  hbas कि support दोनो ईथरनेट और fibre चैनल  called Converged Network Adapters ( CNAs ) .
cashmere  Scarves
Modern men 's  cashmere sweaters  for sale .
Cashmere wool , usually simply known as cashmere , is a fiber  प्राप्त इससे cashmere बकरियों और अन्य प्रकार  of goat .
The word cashmere derives from an  बूढ़ा स्पेलिंग of काश्मीर  .
Cashmere is fine  in बनावट , दमदार  , light , and soft .
garments बना इससे it provide  excellent insulation .
In the United States , under the U.S . Wool Products Labeling Act of 1939 , as amended , ( 15 Uction 68b ( a ) ( 6 ) ) , states  कि a ऊन or वस्त्र उत्पाद may नहीं be labeled as containing cashmere  unless:
such wool product is the  ठीक ( dehaired ) undercoat मछली उत्पादित  by a cashmere goat ( Capra hircus laniger ) ;
the average diameter of the  रेशा of ऐसे ऊन उत्पाद करता  not exceed 19 microns ; and
such wool product does not contain more than 3  प्रतिशत ( by वज़न ) of cashmere मछली  with average diameters that exceed 30 microns .
The  औसत रेशा व्यास may be विषय to a गुणांक  of variation around the mean that shall not exceed 24 percent .
Jennifer Convertibles Inc. is the owner and licensor of sofabed and leather specialty retail stores in the United  राज्य , साथ स्टोर्स स्तिथ throughout the पूर्वी seaboard , in the मिडवेस्ट  , on the West Coast and in the Southwest .
The company  थी संस्थापित in 1975  and is based in Woodbury , New York .
On July 19 , 2010 , the company announced that it had filed for bankruptcy as a  consequence of `` substantial नुकसान  '' .
According to Furniture Today the company was number 48  among फर्नीचर रिटेलर साथ us $ 114 लाख in बिक्री  for the year ending August 29 , 2009 .
It subsequently emerged from  अध्याय 11 अंतर्गत the कंट्रोल of इसके प्रमुख  supplier , the Haining Mengnu Group .
Egg roll is a term used for  अनेक अलग भोजन around the संसार  .
2__Egg_roll __ Varieties of egg rolls are found in mainland China , many Chinese-speaking  regions of एशिया , और चाइनीज अप्रवासी  communities around the world .
Egg rolls as referred  to in चीन .
In Guangdong and Hong Kong , egg roll usually refers to  बिस्किट फेंकें  .
This  is a प्रकार  of biscuit .
the संघटक शामिल  egg , flour and sugar .
Egg roll also is a dish  in कैण्टन और हांग  Kong , this is usually made with vegetable .
Within China egg rolls are eaten predominantly in the southeast and are not as  commonly खपत in the उत्तर और पश्चिमी  parts of China .
In American Chinese cuisine , an egg  फेंकें is a savory डिश typically परोसा  as an appetizer .
It is usually stuffed with chicken , pork  or झींगा , गोभी , गाजर , टमाटर , सेम  sprouts and other vegetables , and then deep fried .
This variety of the egg roll is very common and popular , across even regional  किस्में of अमरीकी चाइनीज खाना , और is प्रायः शामिल as भाग of a `` संयोजन platter  '' .
In Montreal , Canada , open-ended  eggrolls हैं a jewish-chinese  fusion dish .
They can be either  कोषेर certified or  merely kosher style .
Pain  और कष्ट is the विधिक पद लिये the शारीरिक और emotional  stress caused from an injury ( see also pain and suffering ) .
Some damages that might be under this category would be :  aches , अस्थाई और स्थाई सीमाएं on कार्यकलाप , संभावित shortening of जीवन  , depression or scarring .
When filing a lawsuit as a result of an injury , it is common for someone to seek money  दोनो in मुआवजे लिये वास्तविक धन कि  is lost and for the pain and stress associated with virtually any injury .
In a suit , pain and suffering is part of the `` general damages '' section of the claimant 's  अर्जी , or , alternatively , it is an तत्व of `` compensatory '' non-economic क्षतिपूर्ति कि allows रिकवरी लिये the दिमागी anguish and/or  physical pain endured by the claimant as a result of injury for which the plaintiff seeks redress .
Apart from money damages awarded in trial , money damages are also given informally outside the  न्यायिक प्रणाली in mediations , मध्यस्थता ( दोनो of जिससे may be अदालत annexed  or non litigated claims ) as well as in routine insurance settlements .
Individual claimants or those  represented by वकील प्रायः उपस्थित  demands to insurers to settle for money .
These  माँग लिये bodily चोट मुआवजे monies प्रायः नियत  out damages that are similarly used in the court litigated pleadings .
Demands are  प्रायः लिखा summaries of a claimant 's चिकित्सा परवाह  and the facts which resulted in the injury .
Sample of a Medallion signature  गारंटी stampin
the  संयुक्त राज्य और कनाडा , a medallion हस्ताक्षर गारंटी is  a special signature guarantee for the transfer of securities .
It is a guarantee by the transferring financial institution that the signature is genuine and the financial  संस्था स्वीकृत देयता लिये कोई जालसाजी .
Signature guarantees protect shareholders by preventing unauthorized transfers and possible  निवेशकों नुकसान  .
They also limit the liability of  the ट्रांसफ़र एजेंट जो स्वीकृत  the certificates .
Different institutions have different policies as to what  प्रकार of पहचान वे आवश्यकता to provide the गारंटी  and whether they charge a fee for such service ( usually nominal if any ) .
Most institutions will not  गारंटी a हस्ताक्षर of किसी जो रै नहीं already  been their customer .
A medallion signature guarantee is not the same as an acknowledgment by a notary public , in the sense that a `` signature guarantee '' is a certification by the institution that the signature is authentic  , और an acknowledgment is a प्रमाणन by a नोटरी पब्लिक attesting कि the signer हस्ताक्षरित  a document voluntarily .
Some banks may no longer provide this service , however , many still do as well as  अन्य वित्तीय संस्थानों ऐसे as  a Savings and Loans and Credit Unions .
At  उनके एकमात्र discretion , ये संस्थानों may  still decline to provide the Medallion Signature Guarantees .
When US citizens are abroad , some  वित्तीय संस्थानों may accept संयुक्त राज्य दूतावास seals  , in place of the Medallion Signature Guarantee Stamp .
प्रशांत इलेक्ट्रिक रेल streetcars stacked  at a junkyard on Terminal Island , Los Angeles County , California , March 1956
The General Motors streetcar conspiracy ( also known as the Great American streetcar scandal ) refers to allegations and convictions in relation to a program  by सामान्य मोटर्स ( gm ) और अन्य कंपनियाँ जो खरीदा और तब dismantled स्ट्रीटकार और इलेक्ट्रिक  train systems in many American cities .
Between 1936 and 1950 , National City Lines and Pacific City Lines —with investment from GM , Firestone Tire , Standard Oil of California , Phillips Petroleum , Mack Trucks , and the Federal Engineering Corporation—bought over 100 electric surface-traction systems in 45  शहरों सहित बाल्टीमोर , न्यूर्क , लॉस एंजिल्स , नई यॉर्क नगर , ओकलैंड और सैन डिएगो और परिवर्तित  them into bus operation .
Several of the companies involved were convicted in 1949  of षड्यंत्र to monopolize  interstate commerce but were acquitted of conspiring to monopolize the ownership of these companies .
Some suggest that this program played a key role in the decline of public transit in cities across the United States ;  notably एडविन J. quinby , जो पहला खींचा ध्यान to the कार्यक्रम in 1946 , और तब  Bradford C. Snell , an anti-trust attorney for the United States Senate whose controversial 1974 testimony to a Senate inquiry brought the issue to national awareness .
Both Quinby and Snell argued that  the deliberate विनाश of streetcars थी  part of a larger strategy to push the United States into automobile dependency .
अन्य कह कि स्वतंत्र आर्थिक कारकों brought परिचय परिवर्तन in the पारगमन प्रणाली , सहित the ग्रेट अवसाद , the पब्लिक यूटिलिटी पकड़कर कम्पनी  Act of 1935 , labor unrest , market forces , rapidly increasing traffic congestion , urban sprawl , taxation policies that favored private vehicle ownership , and general enthusiasm for the automobile .
One writer on the subject has suggested that Snell and others fell  into simplistic षड्यंत्र सिद्धान्त सोच , bordering on paranoid  delusions saying `` Clearly , GM waged a war on electric traction .
It was  बेशक an सब आउट उत्पीड़न , लकिन by no अर्थात्  the single reason for the failure of rapid transit .
Also , it is just as clear that actions  और inactions by सरकारी  contributed significantly to the elimination of electric traction . ''
Only a small handful of U.S. cities have surviving  प्रभावी rail-based शहरी हस्तांतरण  systems based on streetcars or trams , including Newark , Philadelphia , San Francisco , Pittsburgh , and Boston ; others are re-introducing them .
The story has been explored several times in print  , फिल्मी और अन्य मीडिया , notably in जो framed रोजर खरगोश , लिया लिये a सवारी और  The End of Suburbia .
corwin हाउस , सलेम , मैसाचुसेट्स  , built ca . 1660 , First Period English
American colonial architecture includes several building design styles  संबद्ध साथ the औपनिवेशिक काल of the संयुक्त राज्य , सहित पहला काल अंग्रेज़ी ( late-medieval ) ,  French Colonial , Spanish Colonial , Dutch Colonial and Georgian .
These styles are associated  साथ the घरों  , churches and government buildings of the period from about 1600 through the 19th century .
`` In the Mood '' is a big band era # 1 hit  अंकित by अमरीकी bandleader ग्लेन  Miller .
It topped the charts in 1940 in  the u.S. और एक साल बाद थी प्रदर्शित in the  movie Sun Valley Serenade .
in 1999 , नेशनल पब्लिक रेडियो ( npr )  included the 1939 Glenn Miller recording on RCA Bluebird on the NPR 100 , the list of `` The 100 most important American musical works of the 20th century '' .
वरुण लोगो
The NEPTUNE  कनाडा प्रोजेक्ट is the world’s पहला regional-scale भाटे समंदर  observatory that plugs directly into the Internet .
Since December 2009 , it has allowed  लोगों to `` लहरे '' the seafloor जबकि समंदर वैज्ञानिकों चलाएं  deep-water experiments from labs and universities around the world .
Along with its sister project ,  शुक्र , वरुण offers a अद्वितीय  approach to ocean science .
traditionally , समंदर वैज्ञानिकों have relied on infrequent  ship cruises or space-based satellites to carry out their research , while the NEPTUNE project uses a remotely operated crawler .
A gramophone record , commonly known as a phonograph record ( in American English ) , vinyl record ( in reference to vinyl , the  सामग्री सबसे commonly प्रयुक्त बाद परिचय 1950 ) , or colloquially  , `` a record '' , is an analog sound storage medium consisting of a flat disc with an inscribed , modulated spiral groove .
The groove usually starts  निकट the periphery और ends निकट the बीच  of the disc .
Phonograph records are generally described by their diameter in inches ( 12-inch , 10-inch , 7-inch , etc . ) , the rotational speed at which they  हैं निभाई ( `` 33 आरपीएम `` , `` 78 '' , `` 45 '' , इत्यादि . ) , उनके समय क्षमता ( `` long playing '' ) , उनके reproductive सटीकता , or `` वफ़ादारी  `` ( `` high fidelity '' , `` Orthophonic '' , `` full-range '' , etc . ) , and the number of channels of audio provided ( `` mono `` , `` stereo `` , `` quadraphonic `` , etc . ) .
Phonograph records were the primary medium used for music  जनन लिये सबसे of the 20th सदी , replacing the फोनोग्राफ बेलन ,  with which it had co-existed , by the 1920s .
By the late 1980s , digital media had gained a  larger मार्केट share , और the विनाइल रिकार्ड बाएँ the मुख्यधारा  in 1991 .
They  continue to be manufactured और  sold in the 21st century .
In 2008 , nearly 2.9 million units shipped , the most in any year  चूंकि 1998 और the स्वरूप रै जारी to धीरे  regain popularity .
They are  विशेषकर प्रयुक्त by djs और audiophiles लिये अनेक  types of music .
As of 2013 , vinyl records continue  to be प्रयुक्त लिये वितरण  .
Grassland  in the सांता रोजा  Plateau , California .
Grassland in the  antelope घाटी , कैलिफ़ोर्निया
The Konza tallgrass prairie in the  चकमक पहाड़ियाँ of northeastern कान्सास  .
A grassland  in the फिलीपीन  .
An Inner  मंगोलियाई घासभूमि  in the People 's Republic of China
Grasslands are  क्षेत्रों जहाँ the वनस्पति is वर्चस्व by grasses ( पोएसी ) , however sedge  ( Cyperaceae ) and rush ( Juncaceae ) families can also be found .
Grasslands occur  naturally on सब महाद्वीपों मगर  Antarctica .
In temperate  latitudes , ऐसे as northwestern यूरोपीय और the ग्रेट मैदान और कैलिफ़ोर्निया in उत्तर अमेरिका , देशी  grasslands are dominated by perennial bunch grass species , whereas in warmer climates annual species form a greater component of the vegetation .
Grasslands  हैं मिला in सबसे ecoregions  of the Earth .
For example there are five terrestrial ecoregion classifications ( subdivisions ) of the temperate grasslands , savannas , and shrublands biome  ( ' ecosystem ' ) , जिससे is एक of आठ स्थलीय ecozones  of the Earth 's surface .
Henna ( Lawsonia inermis  , भी पुकारा हिना पेड़ ) or हिना is a flowering संयंत्र , the  sole species in the genus Lawsonia in the family Lythraceae .
The English name `` henna  '' आता इससे the अरबी ( ala-lc : ḥinnāʾ /  pronounced ) or colloquially , loosely pronounced .
The name is  भी प्रयुक्त लिये डाई preparations  derived from the plant , and for the art of temporary tattooing based on those dyes .
Henna has been  प्रयुक्त चूंकि प्राचीनता to डाई स्किन , बाल  , and fingernails , as well as fabrics including Silk , wool and leather .
Additionally , the name is misused for other skin and hair  dyes , ऐसे as ब्लैक हिना or न्यूट्रल हिना , जिससे हैं नहीं निकला  from the plant .
A thin film is a  परत of सामग्री ranging इससे भिन्नों of  a nanometer ( monolayer ) to several micrometers in thickness .
Electronic semiconductor devices and optical coatings are the main  अनुप्रयोग लाभकारी  from thin-film construction .
A familiar application of thin films is the  household दर्पण , जिससे typically रै a पतला मेटल कोटिंग on the वापस  of a sheet of glass to form a reflective interface .
The process of  silvering थी एकबार commonly प्रयुक्त to  produce mirrors .
A very-thin-film coating ( less than a nanometer thick  ) is प्रयुक्त to उपज two-way  mirrors .
The performance of optical coatings ( e.g . antireflective , or AR , coatings ) are  typically उन्नत जब the thin-film कोटिंग consists of अनेक परतों having varying thicknesses  and refractive indices .
Similarly , a periodic structure of alternating thin films of  अलग सामग्री may collectively रूप a so-called superlattice  which exploits the phenomenon of quantum confinement by restricting electronic phenomena to two-dimensions .
Work is being done with ferromagnetic and ferroelectric thin films for use as  कंप्यूटर मेमोरी  .
It is also being applied to  दवाएँ  , via thin-film drug delivery .
Thin-films are used  to उपज thin-film बैटरी  .
Thin  films हैं  also used in dye-sensitized solar cells .
Ceramic  पतला films  are in wide use .
The relatively high  कठोरता और inertness of सिरेमिक सामग्री मेक इस प्रकार of पतला कोटिंग of ब्याज लिये सुरक्षा  of substrate materials against corrosion , oxidation and wear .
In particular , the use of such coatings on cutting tools can extend  the जीवन of ये वस्तुएं by अनेक आदेश  of magnitude .
Research is being done on a new class of  thin-film अकार्बनिक ऑक्साइड सामग्री , पुकारा amorphous heavy-metal cation multicomponent आक्साइड  , which could be used to make transparent transistors that are inexpensive , stable , and environmentally benign .
Gears of War is a military science fiction third-person  शूटर वीडियो खेल विकसित by एपिक खेल  and published by Microsoft Game Studios .
It was initially released as an exclusive title for the Xbox 360 in November 2005  in उत्तर अमेरिका , ऑस्ट्रेलिया , और सबसे of यूरोपीय और शामिल a `` सीमित  Collector 's Edition '' with added content and an art book titled Destroyed Beauty that detailed much of the game 's back-story .
Despite the initial statements of Xbox 360 exclusivity , a Microsoft Windows version of the game was developed in conjunction  साथ लोगों can मक्खी और released a साल बाद , featuring नई सामग्री सहित अतिरिक्त  campaign levels , a new multiplayer game mode , and Games for Windows Live functionality .
The  खेल focuses on the सैनिकों of डेल्टा स्क्वाड as वे wield a हताश , last-ditch attempt to सहेजें the बाकी  human inhabitants of the fictional planet Sera from a relentless and seemingly unstoppable subterranean enemy known as the Locust Horde .
The player assumes the role of Marcus Fenix ( but can also play as Dominic Santiago ) , a  पूर्व कैदी और war-hardened  soldier .
The game is based on the use of cover and strategic fire for the player to advance through the scenarios ; a second player  can खेल cooperatively through  the main campaign to assist .
The game also  सुविधाएँ अनेक  online multiplayer game modes for up to eight players .
Gears of War sold over three million copies in just ten weeks and was  the fastest-selling वीडियो खेल of 2005 as खूब as the  second-most played game over Xbox Live during .
It currently stands as the 5th best  selling एक्सबॉक्स 360 खेल of  all time .
The  खेल रै चूंकि बेची over  five million copies by September 2008 .
The game was well received by critics , who praised its  gameplay और विस्तृत visuals , और it जीती अनेक  `` Game of the Year '' awards in 2006 .
The success of the game has led to the development of the Gears of War  मताधिकार , सहित the 2008 sequel गियर्स of युद्ध 2 और इसके follow-up , गियर्स of युद्ध 3 , जिससे थी released on सितंबर 20 , 2011 , बाद  having initially been set to have been released on April 5 , 2011 , the date upon which Epic Games ' Cliff Bleszinski was a guest on Late Night with Jimmy Fallon .
Adaptations to books , comics , as  खूब as a विशेषता फिल्मी हैं to  be expected .
A Tree Grows in Brooklyn is a 1943  अनोखा लिखा by बेट्टी स्मिथ .
The story  focuses on an irish-american परिवार  in Williamsburg , Brooklyn , New York City .
The novel is set  in the पहला और दूसरी  decades of the 20th century .
The book was an  immense कामयाबी  .
The main metaphor of the book is  the हार्डी पेड़ of स्वर्ग , देशी to चीन और  Taiwan , now considered invasive , and common in the vacant lots of New York City .
World map with the  intertropical मण्डल  highlighted in red .
Tropical  जलवायु zones of the धरती जहाँ  all twelve months have mean temperatures above 18 °C ( 64 °F ) .
The tropics is a region of  the धरती surrounding the equator  .
It is limited in latitude by the Tropic of Cancer in the northern  गोलार्ध at लगभग n और the tropic of मकर in the दक्षिणी  hemisphere at S ; these latitudes correspond to the axial tilt of the Earth .
The  ऊष्णकटिबन्ध हैं भी referred to as the तीव्र  zone and the torrid zone ( see geographical zone ) .
The tropics include all the  क्षेत्रों on the धरती जहाँ the सूर्य पहुँच  a point directly overhead at least once during the solar year .
The tropics are distinguished from the other climatic and biomatic regions of  धरती , the मध्य latitudes और the ध्रुवीय regions on either  side of the equatorial zone .
For the INXS song ,  देखिए कया तुम need ( सोंग  ) .
`` What You Need '' is  an एपीसोड of the अमरीकी टेलीविज़न  anthology series The Twilight Zone .
It is based on the short story of the same name by Lewis  padgett ( हेनरी kuttner और C. L. मूर  ) .
PlayhouseSquare  , in the क्लीवलैंड थिएटर ज़िला in शहर  Cleveland , Ohio , is the second-largest theater complex in the United States , second only to New York City 's Lincoln Center ) .
Constructed in a span of 19 months in the early 1920s , the  थिएटर यहूद subsequently बंद bas , लकिन यहूद revived through a grassroots प्रयत्न  .
Their renovation and reopening helped usher in a new era of  शहर पुनरोद्धार in क्लीवलैंड , और थी पुकारा `` एक of the शीर्ष  ten successes in Cleveland history . ''
The driver  और यात्री सामने airbags  , after having been deployed , in a British Peugeot 306 car .
An airbag is  a गाडी सुरक्षा  device .
It is an occupant restraint system consisting of a flexible fabric envelope or cushion designed to  inflate rapidly दौरान an ऑटोमोबाइल  collision .
Its purpose is to cushion occupants during a crash and provide protection to their  लाशें जब वे स्ट्राइक आंतरिक वस्तुएँ ऐसे as the परिचालन व्हील or a खिड़की .
Modern vehicles may contain multiple airbag modules in various side and frontal locations of the passenger  seating स्थितियाँ , और सेंसर may तैनात एक or अधिक airbags in an प्रभाव मण्डल at परिवर्तनीय दरों आधारित  on the type , angle and severity of impact ; the airbag is designed to only inflate in moderate to severe frontal crashes .
Airbags  हैं सामान्यतः designed साथ the इरादे of supplementing  the protection of an occupant who is correctly restrained with a seatbelt .
Most designs are inflated  through pyrotechnic अर्थात्  and can only be operated once .
Newer side-impact airbag modules consist of compressed air cylinders that are  triggered in the इवेंट of a पक्ष प्रभाव गाडी  impact .
The first commercial designs were introduced in  यात्री ऑटोमोबाइल दौरान the 1970s  with limited success .
Broad commercial adoption of airbags occurred in many markets during the late 1980s and early 1990s with a  ड्राइवर एयरबैग , और a सामने यात्री एयरबैग as खूब on कुछ गाड़ियाँ  ; and many modern vehicles now include four or more units .
IRS tax forms are used for taxpayers and  tax-exempt संगठन to रपट वित्तीय सूचना  to the Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ) of the United States .
वे हैं प्रयुक्त to रपट आय , गणना कर to be सशुल्क to the संघीय  government of the United States , and disclose other information as required by the Internal Revenue Code ( IRC ) .
वहीँ हैं over 800 विभिन्न  forms and schedules .
The best-known of these is Form 1040  प्रयुक्त by individuals  .
In the United States , driver 's licenses are  जारी by प्रत्येक व्यक्तिगत राज्य ( सहित वॉशिंगटन , d.C.  and territories ) , rather than the federal government because of the political concept of federalism .
Drivers are normally required to obtain a license from their state of residence and all  राज्य recognize प्रत्येक अन्य 's पंक्तियां लिये अस्थाई विज़िटर  subject to normal age requirements .
A state may also suspend an individual 's  ड्राइविंग विशेषाधिकार भीतर इसके सीमायें  for traffic violations .
Many  राज्य share a आम प्रणाली of अनुज्ञा  classes , with some exceptions , and commercial license classes are standardized by federal regulation at 49 CFR part 383 .
चीन रै महरूम the सोर्स of अनेक आविष्कारों , सहित the  Four Great Inventions : papermaking , the compass , gunpowder , and printing ( both woodblock and movable type ) .
The list below  contains ये और अन्य आविष्कारों  .
The Chinese invented technologies involving mechanics , hydraulics , and mathematics applied to  horology , metallurgy , खगोलशास्त्र , कृषि , अभियान्त्रिकी , म्यूज़िक सिद्धान्त  , craftsmanship , nautics , and warfare .
By the Warring States Period ( 403–221 BC ) , they had advanced  metallurgic प्रौद्योगिकी , सहित the धमाका भट्टी और cupola भट्टी  , while the finery forge and puddling process were known by the Han Dynasty ( 202 BC – AD 220 ) .
A sophisticated economic system  in चीन दिया जनम to आविष्कारों ऐसे  as paper money during the Song Dynasty ( 960–1279 ) .
The invention of gunpowder by the 10th century led to an array of inventions such as the fire lance , land mine , naval mine , hand cannon ,  exploding गोलों , multistage प्रक्षेपास्त्र , और प्रक्षेपास्त्र  bombs with aerodynamic wings and explosive payloads .
With the navigational aid of  the 11th-century कम्पास और क्षमता to steer at ऊँची समुद्र साथ  the 1st-century sternpost rudder , premodern Chinese sailors sailed as far as East Africa and Egypt .
In water-powered clockworks , the premodern Chinese had used the escapement mechanism since the 8th century and the endless power-transmitting chain  ड्राइव in the 11th सदी  .
They also made large mechanical puppet theaters  चलित by waterwheels और carriage पहियों  and wine-serving automatons driven by paddle wheel boats .
The contemporaneous Peiligang and Pengtoushan cultures represent the  oldest पाषाणकालीन संस्कृतियों of चीन और यहूद formed around  7000 BC .
Some of the first inventions of Neolithic , prehistoric China include semilunar and rectangular stone knives , stone hoes and spades , the cultivation of millet , rice and the soybean  , the refinement of sericulture , the भवन of rammed धरती structures साथ लाइम -plastered हाउस floors , the सृष्टि of the कुम्हार 's व्हील , the सृष्टि of pottery साथ  cord-mat-basket designs , the creation of pottery tripods and pottery steamers , and the development of ceremonial vessels and scapulimancy for purposes of divination .
Francesca Bray argues that the domestication of the ox and buffalo  दौरान the longshan संस्कृति ( c. 3000–c . 2000 bc ) काल , the अनुपस्थिति of longshan-era सिंचाई or high-yield फसलों , पूरा प्रमाण of longshan cultivation  of dry-land cereal crops which gave high yields `` only when the soil was carefully cultivated , '' suggest that the plow was known at least by the Longshan culture period and explains the high agricultural production yields which allowed the rise of Chinese civilization during the Shang Dynasty ( c. 1600–c . 1050 BC ) .
With later inventions such as the multiple-tube seed drill and heavy moldboard iron  हल , चीन 's agricultural आउटपुट could sustain a much larger जनसांख्यिकी  .
For the purposes of this list , inventions are regarded as technological firsts developed in China , and as such does not include foreign technologies which the Chinese  acquired through सम्पर्क , ऐसे as the पवनचक्की इससे the मध्य ईस्ट or the दूरदर्शी इससे जल्दी आधुनिक यूरोपीय  .
It also does not include technologies developed elsewhere and later invented  separately by the चाइनीज  , such as the odometer and chain pump .
Scientific , mathematic or  प्राकृतिक discoveries , परिवर्तन in नाबालिग अवधारणाओं of डिज़ाइन or स्टाइल और  artistic innovations can not be regarded as inventions and do not appear on the list .
Gross domestic product in 2011 US dollars per capita , adjusted for inflation and purchasing power parity ( log scale ) from  1860 to 2011 , साथ जनसांख्यिकी ( डिस्क क्षेत्रफल ) लिये the us ( पीला ) , uk ( नारंगी ) , जापानी ( रेड ) , चीन  ( red ) , and India ( blue ) .
Globalization ( or globalisation—see spelling differences ) is the process of international integration arising from the  इंटरचेंज of संसार दृश्य , उत्पाद , विचार , और अन्य पहलुओं of  culture .
Put in simple terms , globalization refers to processes that  प्रचार world-wide exchanges  of national and cultural resources .
Advances in transportation and  दूरसंचार अवसंरचना , सहित the वृद्धि of the अंतरजाल , हैं प्रमुख कारकों in वैश्वीकरण  , generating further interdependence of economic and cultural activities .
हालांकि अनेक विद्वानों प्लेस the origins of वैश्वीकरण  in modern times , others trace its history long before the European age of discovery and voyages to the New World .
Some even trace the origins to the third  मिलेनियम bce  .
Since the beginning of the 20th century , the pace of globalization has intensified at  a रैपिड रेट , विशेषकर दौरान the पोस्ट ठंडा युद्ध  era .
The term  वैश्वीकरण रै महरूम  in increasing use since the mid-1980s and especially since the mid-1990s .
In 2000 , the International Monetary Fund ( IMF ) identified four basic aspects of  वैश्वीकरण : व्यापार और ट्रांजेक्शन , पूंजी और निवेश  movements , migration and movement of people and the dissemination of knowledge .
Further , environmental challenges such as climate change , cross-boundary water  और एयर प्रदूषण , और over-fishing of the समंदर  are linked with globalization .
Globalizing processes affect and are affected by business  और कार्य संगठन , अर्थशास्त्र , socio-cultural संसाधन  , and the natural environment .
The  replacements is a 2000 अमरीकी  sports comedy film directed by Howard Deutch .
It stars  कियानू रीव्स , जीन  Hackman , and Brooke Langton .
An American Airlines  वायुयान takes बंद इससे dallas/fort  Worth International Airport .
This airport is the  एयरलाइन 's largest  hub .
American Airlines flies to 79 domestic  गंतव्यों और 78 अंतरराष्ट्रीय गंतव्यों  in 48 countries .
( as  of December 2012 )
The list includes the city , country , the codes of the International Air Transport Association ( IATA airport code ) and  the अंतरराष्ट्रीय सिविल विमानन संगठन ( icao विमानक्षेत्र कोड ) , और the विमानक्षेत्र 's नाम  , with the airline 's hubs , focus cities and seasonal destinations marked .
The list also contains  गंतव्यों no longer परोसा by the  airline , which are marked as terminated destinations .
It does not include destinations served for American  एयरलाइंस by इसके क्षेत्रीय affiliates अमरीकी त्रिभुज  Airlines , Executive Airlines , and AmericanConnection .
`` Day-O ( The Banana  नाव सोंग ) '' is a परंपरागत jamaican mento लोक सोंग , the best-known संस्करण of जिससे  was sung by Harry Belafonte and an alternate version interspersed with another Jamaican folksong , Hill and Gully Rider , by Dame Shirley Bassey .
Despite the song 's mento influences , `` Day-O ( The Banana Boat  सोंग ) '' is widely  known as an example of calypso music .
It is a work song ,  इससे the पाइंट of दृश्य of डॉक  workers working the night shift loading bananas onto ships .
daylight रै आइये , the शिफ़्ट is over  and they want their work to be counted up so that they can go home .
World War I ( WWI ) was a global war centred in Europe that  began on 28 जुलाई 1914 और lasted जबतक  11 November 1918 .
It was predominantly called the World War or the Great War from its  occurrence जबतक the प्रारंभ of संसार युद्ध ii in 1939 ,  and the First World War or World War I thereafter .
It involved all the world 's great powers , which were assembled in two opposing alliances : the Allies ( based on the Triple Entente of the United Kingdom , France  और रूस ) और the सेंट्रल शक्तियां ( originally the ट्रिपल गठबंधन of जर्मनी , austria-hungary और इटली ; लकिन , as austria–hungary था लिया the अप्रिय विरूद्ध  the agreement , Italy did not enter into the war ) .
These alliances were both reorganised and expanded as more nations entered the war : Italy , Japan and  the संयुक्त राज्य joined the allies , और the  Ottoman Empire and Bulgaria the Central Powers .
Ultimately ,  अधिक than 70 लाख सैन्य कर्मियों ,  including 60 million Europeans , were mobilised in one of the largest wars in history .
More than 9 million combatants were killed ,  largely क्युकी of technological advancements कि led to विशाल increases in the lethality  of weapons without corresponding improvements in protection or mobility .
It was the fifth- deadliest  विरोध in संसार इतिहास , subsequently paving the रास्ता  for various political changes , such as revolutions in many of the nations involved .
One of the long-term causes of the war was the resurgence of imperialism in the foreign  नीतियों of the ग्रेट शक्तियां  of Europe .
More immediately , the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria , the heir to the throne of  austria-hungary , on 28 जून 1914 by यूगोस्लाव राष्ट्रवादी gavrilo princip in साराजेवो triggered a राजनयिक संकट  when Austria-Hungary subsequently delivered an ultimatum to the Kingdom of Serbia .
Several alliances formed over the  पिछला दशकों यहूद invoked  .
Within weeks , the major  शक्तियां यहूद at युद्ध और , via उनके colonies  , the conflict soon spread around the world .
On 28 July , the  austro-hungarians fired the पहला गोलियाँ of the  war as preparation for the invasion of Serbia .
While the Russians mobilised , the Germans invaded  न्यूट्रल बेल्जियम और ध्वज on the रास्ता to फ़्रांस , providing a casus  belli for Britain 's declaration of war against Germany .
After the German march  on पेरिस थी brought to a halt—the so-called चमत्कार of the marne —the पश्चिमी सामने  settled into a static battle of attrition with a trench line that changed little until 1917 .
On the Eastern Front , the Russian army was successful against  the austro-hungarians , लकिन थी रोका in इसके आक्रमण of  East Prussia by the Germans .
In November the Ottoman Empire joined the war , opening up  fronts in the काकेशस , मेसोपोटामिया और the sinai  .
Italy and Bulgaria went to war in 1915 and  रोमानिया in 1916  .
In  रूस , the त्सार 's सरकारी collapsed in कूच 1917  and a subsequent revolution in November brought the Russians to terms with the Central Powers .
After a 1918 German offensive along the western front , the  allies drove वापस the germans in a श्रेणी of कामयाब  offensives and American forces began entering the trenches .
Germany , which had its own trouble  साथ क्रांतिकारियों , सहमत to an  armistice on 11 November 1918 .
The war  ended in विजय लिये  the Allies .
Events on the home fronts were as  उग्र as on the बैटल fronts  , as the participants tried to mobilize their manpower and economic resources to fight a total war .
By the end of the war , four major imperial powers—the German ,  रूसी , austro-hungarian और उस्मानी empires—ceased  to exist .
The successor states of the former two lost a great  राशि of territory , जबकि the latter दो यहूद dismantled  entirely .
The map of central Europe  थी redrawn into अनेक  smaller states .
The League of Nations was formed in  the आशा of preventing another  such conflict .
The European nationalism spawned by the war and the breakup of empires , the repercussions of Germany 's defeat and problems with the Treaty of Versailles are agreed to be factors  contributing to संसार युद्ध  II .
Nurse Jackie is an American series that premiered on June 8  , 2009 , on showtime ,  Movie Central and The Movie Network .
The series stars Edie Falco as the title character Jackie Peyton ,  an आपात विभाग नर्स at सब संतो ' हॉस्पिटल in  New York City .
For Jackie , `` Every day is a high wire act of juggling  मरीजों , डॉक्टर , fellow नर्स और उसके अपना  indiscretions . ''
Keeping Up with the Kardashians ( often referred to simply as The Kardashians ) is an  अमरीकी वास्तविकता  television series that premiered on October 14 , 2007 , on E ! .
It follows the lives of the  kardashian/jenner परिवार , सहित बहनों  Kourtney , Kim , and Khloé Kardashian .
The series ' success has led to the spin-offs Kourtney and Kim Take New York , Khloé & Lamar , Kourtney and Khloé Take Miami  , और कोर्टनी और किम लो मियामी  .
Afghanistan ( ; ; ) , officially the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan , is a  landlocked sovereign राज्य forming भाग of दक्षिण एशिया , सेंट्रल एशिया  , and to some extent Western Asia .
It has a population of around 30 million inhabiting an area of  लगभग , बनाना it the 42nd सबसे populous और 41st largest स्वदेश  in the world .
It is bordered  by पाकिस्तानी in the दक्षिण और  the east , Iran in the west , Turkmenistan , Uzbekistan and Tajikistan in the north , and China in the far northeast .
Afghanistan has been an ancient  फोकल पाइंट of the रेशा सड़क  and human migration .
archaeologists have मिला प्रमाण of इंसान  habitation from as far back as the Middle Paleolithic .
Urban civilization may have begun in  the क्षेत्रफल as जल्दी  as 3,000 to 2,000 BCE .
Sitting at an important  geostrategic स्थान कि connects the मध्य ईस्ट संस्कृति साथ सेंट्रल एशिया और the भारतीय उपमहाद्वीप , the जमीन रै महरूम घर to  various peoples through the ages and witnessed many military campaigns , notably by Alexander the Great , Genghis Khan , and in modern era Western forces .
The land also served as a source from which the Greco-Bactrians , Kushans , Hephthalites  , saffarids , ghaznavids , ghorids , khiljis , timurids , मुगलों  , Durranis , and others have risen to form major empires .
The political history of the modern  राज्य of अफगानिस्तान begins in 1709 , जब the hotaki  dynasty was established in Kandahar followed by Ahmad Shah Durrani 's rise to power in 1747 .
In the late 19th century , Afghanistan became a buffer  राज्य in the `` ग्रेट खेल `` between  the British and Russian empires .
Following the 1919 Anglo-Afghan War , King Amanullah began a European style  modernization of the देश लकिन थी रोका by the  ultra-conservatives .
During the Cold War , after the withdrawal of the British from  neighboring इण्डिया in 1947 , the संयुक्त राज्य और the सोवियत संघ began spreading प्रभाव in अफगानिस्तान , जिससे led to a खूनी युद्ध  between the US-backed mujahideen forces and the Soviet-backed Afghan government in which over a million Afghans lost their lives .
This was followed  by the 1990s सिविल युद्ध , the वृद्धि और पतन of the  extremist Taliban government and the 2001–present war .
In December 2001 ,  the संयुक्त राष्ट्र सुरक्षा परिषद प्राधिकृत the सृष्टि of the अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Security Assistance Force ( ISAF ) to help maintain security in Afghanistan and assist the Karzai administration .
Three decades of war made Afghanistan  एक of the संसार 's सबसे खतरनाक देशों  , including the largest producer of refugees and asylum seekers .
While the international community is rebuilding war-torn Afghanistan , terrorist groups such as the Haqqani Network and Hezbi Islami are actively involved in a  देशभर तालिबान -led उग्रवाद , जिससे शामिल सैंकड़ों of assassinations और आत्महत्या  attacks .
According to the United Nations , the insurgents were responsible for 80 % of  civilian हताहत in 2011  and 2012 .
The American Civil War ( ACW ) , also known as the War between the States or simply the Civil War ( see naming ) , was a civil war fought from 1861 to 1865 between the United States ( the `` Union '' or the `` North '' ) and  अनेक दक्षिणी स्लेव राज्य कि घोषित उनके secession और formed the confederate राज्य of अमेरिका ( the `` confederacy  '' or the `` South '' ) .
The war had its origin in the issue of slavery , especially the  एक्सटेंशन of गुलामी into the पश्चिमी territories .
Foreign  शक्तियां किया नहीं intervene  .
After four years of bloody combat that left over 600,000 soldiers dead and  नष्ट much of the दक्षिण 's अवसंरचना , the  Confederacy collapsed , slavery was abolished , and the difficult Reconstruction process of restoring national unity and guaranteeing rights to the freed slaves began .
In the 1860 presidential election ,  republicans , led by अब्राहम lincoln , opposed expanding  slavery into United States ' territories .
Lincoln  जीती , लकिन पहले उसके उद्घाटन  on March 4 , 1861 , seven cotton-based slave states formed the Confederacy .
Outgoing  लोकतांत्रिक अध्यक्ष जेम्स बुकानन और the आवक republicans  rejected secession as illegal .
Lincoln 's inaugural address declared his  प्रशासन होता नहीं initiate  civil war .
Eight remaining slave  राज्य जारी to  reject calls for secession .
Confederate forces seized  numerous संघीय दुर्गों भीतर territory  claimed by the Confederacy .
A Peace Conference failed to find a compromise , and  दोनो पहलू prepared लिये युद्ध .
The Confederates assumed that European countries were so dependent on `` King Cotton `` that they would  intervene ; none किया और none पहचाना  the new Confederate States of America .
Hostilities began on April 12 , 1861 , when  confederate शक्तियां fired upon फोर्ट sumter , a कुंजी  fort held by Union troops in South Carolina .
Lincoln called for  प्रत्येक राज्य to provide सैनिकों to retake the फोर्ट ; नतीजतन  , four more slave states joined the Confederacy , bringing their total to eleven .
The Union  जल्द नियंत्रित the किनारा राज्य  and established a naval blockade that crippled the southern economy .
The Eastern Theater was  inconclusive  in 1861–62 .
The autumn 1862 Confederate campaign into Maryland  ( a संघ राज्य ) ended साथ confederate  retreat at the Battle of Antietam , dissuading British intervention .
Lincoln issued the Emancipation  उदघोषणा , जिससे बना  ending slavery a war goal .
To the west , by summer 1862 the Union destroyed the  confederate नदी नेवी , तब much of उनके पश्चिमी  armies , and the Union at Vicksburg split the Confederacy in two at the Mississippi River .
In 1863 ,  रॉबर्ट E. ली 's confederate incursion उत्तर  ended at the Battle of Gettysburg .
Western successes led to Ulysses S. Grant  कमांड of सब संघ  armies in 1864 .
In the Western Theater , William T. Sherman drove east to capture Atlanta and marched  to the समुद्र , destroying confederate अवसंरचना  along the way .
The Union marshaled the resources and manpower to attack the Confederacy from all directions , and  could afford to लड़ो लड़ाइयों of अपघर्षण through the  Overland Campaign towards Richmond , the Confederate capital .
The defending Confederate army failed , leading to Lee 's surrender to Grant at  appomattox अदालत हाउस on अप्रैल 9  , 1865 .
The American Civil War was one of the  earliest सच्चा औद्योगिक  wars .
Railroads , the telegraph ,  steamships , और mass-produced  weapons were employed extensively .
The mobilization  of civilian कारखानों , खानों  , shipyards , banks , transportation and food supplies all foreshadowed World War I .
It remains the deadliest war in American history  , resulting in the मौतों of an अनुमानित 750,000  soldiers and an undetermined number of civilian casualties .
Historian John Huddleston estimates the death  टोल at टेन प्रतिशत of सब उत्तरी males 20–45 सालो  old , and 30 percent of all Southern white males aged 18–40 .
Cost of goods sold ( COGS ) refer to  the inventory लागत of those goods a कारोबार  has sold during a particular period .
Costs are associated with particular goods using one of several formulas  , सहित विशिष्ट पहचान , first-in first-out  ( FIFO ) , or average cost .
Costs include all costs of purchase , costs of conversion and other costs  incurred in bringing the inventories to उनके उपस्थित स्थान और  condition .
Costs of goods made by the business  शामिल सामग्री , मजदूर  , and allocated overhead .
The costs of those goods not yet sold are deferred as  लागत of inventory जबतक the inventory is बेची or लिखा  down in value .
freak lunchbox कैंडी स्टोर  in Halifax , Nova Scotia
A confectionery store ( more commonly referred to as a sweet shop in the United Kingdom , a candy store in the North America , or a lolly shop  in ऑस्ट्रेलिया ) बिकता confectionery और is प्रायः  targeted to children .
Most confectionery stores are  भर साथ an assortment of मिठाई दूर larger than  a grocer or convenience store could accommodate .
They often offer a selection of  बूढ़ा fashioned ट्रीट , और मिठाई इससे  different countries .
Very often unchanged in  लेआउट चूंकि उनके inception  , confectioneries are known for their warming and nostalgic feel .
The village of Pateley Bridge claims  to have the oldest confectionery  store in England .
The oldest sweet shop in England  , in the गाँव of pateley सेतु
Oklahoma ( ) ( Pawnee :  uukuhuúwa , cay : gahnawiyoˀgeh ) is a राज्य  located in West South Central United States .
Oklahoma is  the 20th सबसे extensive और  the 28th most populous of the 50 United States .
The state 's name is derived  इससे the choctaw शब्द okla और humma , अर्थ `` रेड लोगों '' ,  and it is known informally by its nickname , The Sooner State .
Formed by the combination of Oklahoma Territory and Indian Territory  on नवम्बर 16 , 1907 , ओक्लाहोमा थी the 46th राज्य to  enter the union .
Its  निवासियों हैं ज्ञात as oklahomans or , informally `` okies  '' , and its capital and largest city is Oklahoma City .
A major producer of natural gas , oil , and agriculture ,  ओक्लाहोमा relies on an आर्थिक आधार of  aviation , energy , telecommunications , and biotechnology .
It has one of the fastest growing economies in the nation , ranking among  the शीर्ष राज्य in प्रति capita आय विकास और सकल घरेलू  product growth .
Oklahoma City and Tulsa serve as Oklahoma 's primary economic anchors , with nearly two  तिहाई of oklahomans जीना भीतर उनके महानगर  statistical areas .
साथ छोटी पहाड़ सीमाएँ , प्रेयरी , mesas , और पूर्वी  forests , most of Oklahoma lies in the Great Plains and the U.S . Interior Highlands —a region especially prone to severe weather .
In addition to having  a व्यापकता of अंग्रेज़ी , जर्मनी , स्कॉटिश , आयरिश और देशी अमरीकी  ancestry , more than 25 Native American languages are spoken in Oklahoma , second only to California .
Oklahoma is located on a confluence of  तीन प्रमुख अमरीकी सांस्कृतिक regions और historically परोसा as a रूट लिये चौपायों  drives , a destination for southern settlers , and a government-sanctioned territory for Native Americans .
stacked और खड़ा  car tires
A tire ( or tyre ) is a ring-shaped covering that  fits around a व्हील 's रिम to protect it और  enable better vehicle performance .
Most tires ,  ऐसे as those लिये ऑटोमोबाइल और साइकिल , provide कर्षण between  the vehicle and the road while providing a flexible cushion that absorbs shock .
The materials of modern  न्यूमेटिक टायर हैं सिंथेटिक रबर , प्राकृतिक रबर , कपड़ा  and wire , along with carbon black and other chemical compounds .
They  consist of a tread  and a body .
The tread provides traction while the body  provides containment लिये a मात्रा of  compressed air .
पहले रबर थी विकसित , the पहला संस्करण of  tires were simply bands of metal that fitted around wooden wheels to prevent wear and tear .
Early rubber tires  यहूद ठोस ( नहीं  pneumatic ) .
Today , the majority of tires are pneumatic inflatable structures , comprising a doughnut-shaped body of cords and  wires encased in रबर और generally भर साथ संपीडित एयर  to form an inflatable cushion .
Pneumatic tires are used on many types of  वाहनों , सहित गाड़ियाँ , साइकिल , मोटरसाइकिल , ट्रक ,  earthmovers , and aircraft .
Metal tires are still used on locomotives and railcars , and solid rubber ( or other  पॉलिमर ) टायर हैं स्टिल प्रयुक्त in विभिन्न non-automotive अनुप्रयोग , ऐसे as कुछ  casters , carts , lawnmowers , and wheelbarrows .
Dr. Joseph Warren ( June 11 , 1741 – June 17 , 1775 ) was an American doctor who played a leading role in American Patriot organizations in Boston in early days of the American Revolution ,  आखिरकार सेवारत as अध्यक्ष of the क्रांतिकारी मैसाचुसेट्स  Provincial Congress .
Warren enlisted Paul Revere and William Dawes on April 18 , 1775 , to leave Boston and spread the alarm that the  अंग्रेजों गैरीसन in बोस्टन थी सेटिंग आउट to रेड the  town of Concord and arrest rebel leaders John Hancock and Samuel Adams .
Warren  participated in the अगला दिन 's लड़ाइयों of lexington और concord  , which are commonly considered to be the opening engagements of the American Revolutionary War .
Warren had been  commissioned a प्रमुख सामान्य in the उपनिवेश 's मिलिशिया shortly  before the June 17 , 1775 Battle of Bunker Hill .
Rather than exercising his rank , Warren served in the battle as a private soldier , and  थी मारे in कॉम्बैट जब अंग्रेजों सैनिकों stormed the redoubt  atop Breed 's Hill .
His death , immortalized in John Trumbull 's painting , The Death of General Warren at the Battle of Bunker 's Hill , June 17 , 1775 , galvanized  the विद्रोही शक्तियां , और he रै महरूम स्मरणीय in अनेक प्लेस  names in the United States .
STM image  of self-assembled supramolecular जंजीरों of  the organic semiconductor Quinacridone on Graphite .
An organic semiconductor is an organic material with semiconductor  गुण , कि is , साथ an विद्युत चालकता between  that of insulators and that of metals .
सिंगल अणुओं , छोटी कड़ी  ( oligomers ) and organic polymers can be semiconductive .
Semiconducting small  अणुओं ( खुशबूदार hydrocarbons ) शामिल the polycyclic खुशबूदार  compounds pentacene , anthracene , and rubrene .
Polymeric organic  semiconductors शामिल बहु ( 3-hexylthiophene  ) , poly ( p-phenylene vinylene ) , as well as polyacetylene and its derivatives .
There are two major overlapping classes  of सशुल्क semiconductors  .
These are organic charge-transfer complexes and various  linear-backbone conductive polymers निकला इससे polyacetylene  .
Linear backbone organic  semiconductors शामिल polyacetylene itself और इसके डेरिवेटिव  polypyrrole , and polyaniline .
At least locally ,  charge-transfer देवालय  often exhibit similar conduction mechanisms to inorganic semiconductors .
Such mechanisms arise from  the उपस्थिति of छेद और इलेक्ट्रॉन conduction  layers separated by a band gap .
While such classic mechanisms are important  locally , as साथ अकार्बनिक amorphous semiconductors , tunnelling , स्थानीयकृत राज्य , गतिशीलता  gaps , and phonon -assisted hopping also significantly contribute to conduction , particularly in polyacetylenes .
Like inorganic semiconductors ,  सशुल्क semiconductors  can be doped .
Organic semiconductors susceptible to doping  ऐसे as polyaniline ( ormecon  ) and are also known as organic metals .
Typical current carriers in organic  semiconductors हैं छेद  and electrons in π-bonds .
Almost all organic  solids हैं insulators  .
But when their constituent molecules have π-conjugate systems , electrons can move via π-electron  बादल overlaps , विशेषकर by hopping  , tunnelling and related mechanisms .
Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons and phthalocyanine  नमक crystals हैं उदाहरण of इस  type of organic semiconductor .
Mainly due to low mobility , even unpaired electrons  may be stable in charge-transfer  complexes .
ऐसे unpaired  electrons can function as current carriers .
This type of  सेमीकंडक्टर is भी प्राप्त by pairing  an electron donor molecule with an electron acceptor molecule .
Female  स्खलन is the expulsion of द्रव by इंसान  females from the paraurethral ducts through and around the female urethra during or before an orgasm .
It is also known colloquially as gushing or  squirting , हालांकि ये हैं माना to be अलग  phenomena in some research publications .
The exact source and nature of the fluid continue to be a topic of debate among  चिकित्सा पेशेवर , जिससे is भी सम्बन्धित to संदेह over the अस्तित्व  of the G-Spot .
The FIFA Women  's संसार कप is an अंतरराष्ट्रीय संघ फ़ुटबॉल प्रतियोगिता लडे by the वरिष्ठ महिलाओं  's national teams of the members of Fédération Internationale de Football Association ( FIFA ) , the sport 's global governing body .
The championship has been  awarded प्रत्येक चार सालो चूंकि  the inaugural tournament in 1991 .
जापानी जीती the 2011 टूर्नामेंट  in a penalty shootout .
The current format of the tournament  involves 16 टीमों स्पर्धा लिये the शीर्षक at venues भीतर the मेजबान स्वदेश ( s ) over  a period of about three weeks ; – this phase is often called the World Cup Finals .
A qualification phase , which currently takes place over the preceding three years , is used to  determine जिससे टीमों qualify लिये the टूर्नामेंट  together with the host nation ( s ) .
The FIFA Women 's World Cup is recognized as the most important International competition  in महिलाओं 's फ़ुटबॉल और is निभाई amongst महिलाओं  's national football teams of the member states of FIFA , the sport 's global governing body .
The first Women 's World Cup tournament , named the Women 's World  चैंपियनशिप , थी आयोजित in 1991 , sixty-one सालो बाद the मेन 's पहला  FIFA World Cup tournament in 1930 .
the छह संसार कप tournaments  have been won by four different national teams .
The next World Cup will be  hosted by कनाडा in 2015  .
Scorpions is a young adult  अनोखा लिखा by वाल्टर डीन मायर्स , पहला प्रकाशित in the संयुक्त राज्य by हार्पर  & Row on June 20 , 1988 .
Front page of a 17th century Hebrew Bible by Joseph Athias ,  अभी at बेथ hatefutsoth , इसराईल
'Son of man ' is the  अनुवाद of विभिन्न यहूदी और यूनानी वाक्यांश  used in both the Hebrew Bible and the New Testament .
It has  विविध meanings , ranging इससे a  normal human being to a prophesied eternal , divine ruler .
The  यहूदी अभिव्यक्ति `` बेटे of man '' ( בן–אדם  i.e . ben-'adam ) appears one hundred and seven times in the Hebrew Bible .
This is the most common Hebrew construction for the  एकवचन लकिन is प्रयुक्त ज़्यादातर in ezekiel  ( 93 times ) and 14 times elsewhere .
In thirty two cases the phrase  appears in इंटरमीडिएट बहुवचन  form `` sons of men '' , i.e . human beings .
As generally interpreted by Jews , it  denotes humankind generally  .
In the  koine यूनानी of the नई वसीयत , `` the बेटे of man  '' is invariably used as `` ὁ υἱὸς τοὺ ἀνθρώπου '' with a definite article .
The use of the definite article in `` the son  of man '' in the ईसाई gospels is अनोखा , और पहले इसके उपयोग वहीँ , no रिकॉर्ड  of its use in any of the surviving Greek documents of antiquity exist .
Geza  vermes रै stated कि `` the बेटे of man '' in the ईसाई  gospels is unrelated to Hebrew Bible usages .
In Christian usage , unlike the Son of God title , which has been an essential element of Christian creeds  चूंकि the अपोस्टोलिक आयु , the उदघोषणा of `` यीशु  as the Son of man '' has never been an article of faith in Christianity .
The interpretation of the use of `` the Son of man '' in the New  वसीयत रै remained चुनौतीपूर्ण  and after 150 years of debate no consensus on the issue has emerged among scholars .
Master of foxhounds leads the field from Powderham Castle in Devon  , इंग्लैण्ड , साथ the hounds  in front .
Fox hunting is an activity involving the tracking , chase , and sometimes killing of a fox , traditionally a red fox , by trained foxhounds or other scent hounds  , और a समूह of निहत्थे अनुसरणकर्ता led by a निपुण of foxhounds , जो follow the  hounds on foot or on horseback .
Fox hunting originated in the form practised until recently in the United Kingdom in the 16th century , but is practised all over the world ,  सहित in ऑस्ट्रेलिया , कनाडा , फ़्रांस , आयरलैंड , इटली और the संयुक्त राज्य  .
In Australia , the  पद भी refers to the शिकार  of foxes with firearms similar to spotlighting or deer hunting .
In much of the world hunting in general is understood to relate to any game animals or weapons ( e.g. , deer hunting with bow and arrow ) ; in Britain and Ireland  , `` शिकार '' बगैर योग्यता implies फॉक्स शिकार ( or अन्य फ़ॉर्म of शिकार  with hounds- beagling , stag hunting , mink hunting , drag hunting or hunting the clean boot ) as described here .
The sport is controversial , particularly in the UK , where it was banned in Scotland in 2002 , and in England and Wales in  नवम्बर 2004 ( विधि enforced इससे फ़रवरी 2005 ) , हालांकि शूटिंग foxes  as vermin remained legal .
Proponents of fox hunting view it as an important  भाग of ग्रामीण संस्कृति और उपयोगी लिये कारण of  conservation and pest control , while opponents argue that it is cruel and unnecessary .
Tobacco  विज्ञापन is the विज्ञापन of तम्बाकू उत्पाद or उपयोग ( typically सिगरेट धूम्रपान  ) by the tobacco industry through a variety of media including sponsorship , particularly of sporting events .
It is now one  of the सबसे अत्यधिक regulated  forms of marketing .
Some or all forms of tobacco  विज्ञापन हैं बैन  in many countries .
Bally Technologies  , inc. is a निर्माता of  slot machines and other gaming technology based in Las Vegas , Nevada .
The company was founded in  1968 as उन्नत पेटेंट  Technology .
It  आखिरकार बदला इसके नाम to गठबंधन गेमिंग और acquired  , in 1996 , Bally Gaming International , a former division of Bally Manufacturing .
In 2006 , the entire company adopted the Bally name , a trademark that  originated in 1932 by the बल्ली निर्माण  Corporation .
Gustave Doré 's engravings  illustrated the दैवी कॉमेडी ( 1861–1868  ) ; here , Dante is lost in Canto 1 of the Inferno .
Inferno ( Italian for ``  नरक `` ) is the पहला भाग of दांते एलीगियरी 's  14th-century epic poem Divine Comedy .
It is followed by Purgatorio and  paradiso .
It is an allegory telling of the journey of Dante through Hell ,  हिदायत by the रोमन कवि  Virgil .
In the  कविता , नरक is चित्रित as नौ वृत्त of कष्ट  located within the Earth .
Allegorically , the Divine Comedy  represents the यात्रा of the आत्मा  towards God , with the Inferno describing the recognition and rejection of sin .
Smirnoff is a brand of vodka owned and produced by the  अंग्रेजों कम्पनी  Diageo .
the स्मरनॉफ ब्रांड began साथ a वोदका डिस्टिलरी  founded in Moscow by Pyotr Arsenievich Smirnov ( 1831–1898 ) .
It is  अभी वितरित  in 130 countries .
It is produced in several countries including India , Ireland , Italy , the  संयुक्त किंगडम और the संयुक्त राज्य  .
Smirnoff products include vodka ,  flavoured वोदका , और malt पेय  .
In March 2006 , Diageo North America claimed that Smirnoff vodka was the  best-selling आसुत स्पिरिट ब्रांड in  the world .
Big Brown ( foaled April 10 , 2005 in Kentucky ) is a retired champion American Thoroughbred racehorse and winner of the 2008 Kentucky Derby and 2008  preakness stakes  .
Bred by Dr. Gary B. Knapp 's  monticule खेतो in lexington , केंटकी , he  won his first five race starts .
He was sired by Grade III winner Boundary , a son of North  अमरीकी चैंपियन sire danzig  , a son of Northern Dancer .
Big Brown 's dam was Mien  , भी a  granddaughter of Northern Dancer through her sire , Nureyev .
The Serenity Prayer is the common name for an originally untitled  दुआ by the अमरीकी theologian  Reinhold Niebuhr ( 1892–1971 ) .
It has been adopted by Alcoholics  बेनाम और अन्य twelve-step कार्यक्रम .
The best-known form is : God , grant me the  serenity to accept the बाते  I can not change,
The  हिम्मत to बदलें the  things I can,
And wisdom  to जान the  difference .
The Declaration and Resolves of the First Continental Congress ( also known as the Declaration of Colonial Rights , or the Declaration of Rights ) , was a statement adopted by the First Continental Congress on October 14 , 1774 ,  in जवाब to the असहनीय अधिनियमों passed by the अंग्रेजों पार्लियामेंट .
The Declaration outlined colonial objections to the Intolerable  अधिनियमों , सूचीबद्ध a औपनिवेशिक विधेयक of अधिकारों , और provided a विस्तृत सूची  of grievances .
It was similar to the Declaration of Rights and Grievances , passed by the Stamp  अधिनियम कॉंग्रेस a दशक पहले  .
The  घोषणा concluded साथ an रूपरेखा of कॉंग्रेस 's योजनाएँ : to डालें into a बहिष्कार of अंग्रेजों व्यापार ( the महाद्वीपीय  Association ) until their grievances were redressed , to publish addresses to the people of Great Britain and British America , and to send a petition to the King .
पल्स दबाव is the दबाव  that is felt when feeling the pulse .
Measured in  millimeters of पारा ( mmhg ) , the दबाव अंतर between the systolic और  diastolic pressures is the pressure change to create the pulse , which is the pulse pressure .
If resting blood pressure is ( systolic/diastolic ) 120/80 millimeters of mercury  ( mmhg ) , पल्स दबाव is  40 .
The Hills is a reality television series  जिससे originally aired on एमटीवी  from May 31 , 2006 until July 13 , 2010 .
The show uses a  वास्तविकता टेलीविज़न स्वरूप , following the निजी जीवनदान of अनेक यंग वयस्कों जीना in लॉस  Angeles , California , but tends towards a narrative format more commonly found in scripted genres such as soap operas .
The series originally followed  the निजी जीवन of पूर्व लगुना बीच स्टार  Lauren Conrad and her friends ' new lives in Los Angeles .
After five seasons , Conrad left the  श्रेणी और थी replaced by another पूर्व लगुना बीच स्टार , kristin cavallari , शुरूआत in  the second half of the fifth season .
The  श्रेणी concluded at the  end of the sixth season .
entertainment साप्ताहिक क्रमित the पहाड़ियाँ  82nd on their list of `` The 100 Best Shows of the Last 25 Years , '' stating that the series was a `` New Classic . ''
AOL TV  पुकारा it tv 's biggest  Guilty Pleasure .
The series premiered in syndication in  the पतन of 2009 alongside लगुना बीच : the रियल  Orange County .
In poker , bad beat is a subjective term for a hand in which a  खिलाड़ी साथ कया appear to be दमदार ताश  nevertheless loses .
It most often occurs where one player bets the  clearly stronger हाथ और उनके प्रतिद्वन्दी makes a ग़रीब कॉल  that eventually `` hits '' and wins .
There is no consensus among poker players as to what exactly constitutes a bad beat and often players will  असहमत परिचय whether a particular हाथ थी a ख़राब ताल  .
The goldfish ( Carassius  auratus auratus ) is a freshwater  fish in the family Cyprinidae of order Cypriniformes .
It was one of the earliest fish to be domesticated ,  और is एक of the सबसे commonly  kept aquarium fish .
A relatively small member of the carp family ( which also includes the koi carp  और the crucian कार्प ) , the goldfish is a domesticated संस्करण  of a less-colorful carp ( Carassius auratus ) native to east Asia .
It was first domesticated in China more  than a हजार सालो पहले , और अनेक पृथक  breeds have since been developed .
Goldfish breeds vary greatly in size , body shape  , जोडे विन्यास और coloration (  various combinations of white , yellow , orange , red , brown , and black are known ) .
uncooked  Rouladen
Rouladen ( or Rinderroulade , singular : roulade ) is a German meat roulade usually  consisting of बेकन , प्याज , सरसों और अचार  wrapped in thinly sliced beef which is then cooked .
In some  देशों , the roulade  is also known as `` beef olive '' .
Beef or veal is used as meat though some food scholars tend to believe that the  असली संस्करण थी संभवतः venison or पोर्क  , and pork is still popular in some areas .
The beef rouladen as we know them today have become  लोकप्रिय over the पिछला  century .
The cut is usually  topside बीफ or silverside चूंकि  this is the cheaper cut .
The  अधिक महंगी संस्करण होता be the गोलाकार स्टीक ,  also known as rump steak .
The  मांस is काटें into  large , thin slices .
The filling is a mixture of smoked and cooked pork  पेट , कटा प्याज और कटा अचार ( gurken ) जिससे is at टाइम्स varied by adding  minced meat , sausage meat , pine nuts and mustard .
The mixture  varies इससे प्रदेश to प्रदेश  .
Rouladen are traditionally  परोसा लिये डिनर  .
Red wine is  प्रायः परोसा  with this dish .
Typical  eukaryotic कोशिका .
Cellular respiration is the set of the metabolic reactions and processes that take place in the cells of organisms to convert biochemical energy from  nutrients into एडीनोसिन ट्राइफॉस्फेट ( एटीपी ) , और तब रिलीज बर्बाद उत्पाद  .
The reactions involved in respiration are catabolic  प्रतिक्रियाएँ , जिससे ब्रेक विशाल अणुओं into छोटी ones , releasing उर्जा in the प्रक्रम as कमजोर so-called `` high-energy  '' bonds are replaced by stronger bonds in the products .
श्वसन is एक of the  key ways a cell gains useful energy to fuel cellular activity .
Cellular respiration is considered an  ऊष्माक्षेपी रेडॉक्स प्रतिक्रिया  .
The overall reaction is broken into many smaller ones when it occurs in the body  , सबसे of जिससे हैं रेडॉक्स प्रतिक्रियाएँ  themselves .
हालांकि technically , सेल्यूलर श्वसन is a  combustion reaction , it clearly does not resemble one when it occurs in a living cell .
This difference is because it  occurs in अनेक पृथक  steps .
While the overall  प्रतिक्रिया is a दहन प्रतिक्रिया , no सिंगल  reaction that comprises it is a combustion reaction .
Nutrients that are commonly used by animal and plant cells in respiration include sugar , amino acids and fatty acids , and a  आम oxidizing एजेंट ( इलेक्ट्रॉन acceptor ) is आणविक ऑक्सीजन  ( O2 ) .
The energy stored in ATP (  इसके तीसरा फास्फेट समूह is weakly बंधुआ to the बाकी of the अणु और is cheaply टूटा allowing stronger  bonds to form , thereby transferring energy for use by the cell ) can then be used to drive processes requiring energy , including biosynthesis , locomotion or transportation of molecules across cell membranes .
देशों by 2011 जीडीपी ( नाममात्र  ) according to the CIA World Factbook .
इस आलेख शामिल a सूची of देशों in the संसार sorted  by their gross domestic product ( GDP ) , the market value of all final goods and services from a nation in a given year .
The GDP dollar estimates presented here are calculated at market or  सरकारी आधिकारिक एक्सचेंज दरों  .
Several economies which are not  माना to be देशों ( संसार , the eu ,  and some dependent territories ) are included in the lists because they appear in the sources .
These economies are not ranked in the charts here , but are  सूचीबद्ध जहाँ लागू  .
The figures presented here do not take into account differences in the cost of living in different countries , and the results  can vary greatly इससे एक साल to another आधारित on  fluctuations in the exchange rates of the country 's currency .
Such fluctuations may change  a देश 's रैंकिंग इससे  one year to the next , even though they often make little or no difference to the standard of living of its population .
इसलिए ये आंकड़े चाहिए be प्रयुक्त  with caution .
Some countries/regions may have  नागरिकों जिससे हैं on  average wealthy .
ये countries/regions could  appear in this list as having a small GDP .
This would be because the country/region listed has a  छोटी जनसांख्यिकी , और इसलिए  small total economy ; the GDP is calculated as the population times the wealth per capita .
Comparisons of national wealth are also frequently made on the basis of purchasing power parity ( PPP ) , to adjust for  मतभेद in  the cost of living in different countries .
( See  सूची of देशों by  GDP ( PPP ) )
PPP largely removes the exchange rate problem , but has its own drawbacks ; it does not reflect the value of  आर्थिक आउटपुट in अंतरराष्ट्रीय व्यापार , और it भी requires  more estimation than nominal GDP .
On the whole , PPP per  capita आंकड़े हैं अधिक narrowly स्प्रेड than  nominal GDP per capita figures .
The first list includes data compiled by  the संयुक्त राष्ट्र आंकडे  Division for 2011 .
The second list largely includes data (  अनुमान ) compiled by the अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Monetary Fund for 2012 .
The  तीसरा सूची shows the संसार बैंको 's ज़्यादातर 2011 estimates  , and the fourth list includes mostly 2012 estimates from the CIA World Factbook .
Lapping is a  machining प्रक्रम , in जिससे दो सतहों हैं मला साथ साथ an अक्खड़ between उन्हें  , by hand movement or by way of a machine .
इस can  take two forms .
The first type of lapping ( traditionally called grinding ) , typically involves rubbing a brittle material such as glass against a  सतह ऐसे as आयरन or कांच itself ( भी ज्ञात as the `` गोद '' or पीस औजार ) साथ an अक्खड़  such as aluminum oxide , jeweller 's rouge , optician 's rouge , emery , silicon carbide , diamond , etc. , in between them .
This produces microscopic conchoidal fractures as  the अक्खड़ रोल्स परिचय between the दो सतहों और removes  material from both .
The other form of lapping involves a softer material such as pitch or a  सिरेमिक लिये the गोद , जिससे is `` चार्ज '' साथ the अक्खड़  .
The lap is then  प्रयुक्त to काटें a harder  material—the workpiece .
The abrasive embeds within the softer material which  holds it और permits it to स्कोर आरपार  and cut the harder material .
Taken to a finer limit , this  होगा उपज a polished सतह ऐसे as साथ a पॉलिशिंग  cloth on an automobile , or a polishing cloth or polishing pitch upon glass or steel .
Taken to the ultimate limit , with the aid of accurate interferometry and specialized  पॉलिशिंग मशीने or skilled हाथ पॉलिशिंग , lensmakers  can produce surfaces that are flat to better than 30 nanometers .
इस is एक बीसवीं of the wavelength  of light from the commonly used 632.8 nm helium neon laser light source .
Surfaces this flat can be molecularly bonded ( optically contacted ) by bringing them  साथ अंतर्गत the सही  conditions .
( This is not the same as the wringing effect of  जोहानसन ब्लॉक , हालांकि it is समान  ) .
The term `` America 's Team '' is a  लोकप्रिय उपनाम in  the United States that refers to the Dallas Cowboys in the National Football League .
The nickname originated  साथ the टोली 's 1978 हाइलाइट फिल्मी , जहाँ the narrator opens साथ the following परिचय : the पद is पहचाना और प्रायः  used by media outlets , including ESPN , Yahoo ! , HBO Sports , and Sports Illustrated .
My  दाई 's a पिशाच ( फ्रेंच : ma gardienne est un पिशाच  ) is a 2011 Canadian television series , based on the television film of the same name .
In Canada , the series premiered in French on Télétoon on February 28 , 2011 , in  अंग्रेज़ी on teletoon on कूच 14 , 2011 ,  and on Disney Channel in the United States on June 27 , 2011 .
The show  थी निर्मित by भैस  TV , creators of 6teen and Total Drama .
The show follows Ethan Morgan ( Matthew Knight ) , who , in the television film , learns that  उसके दाई सारा ( वैनेसा मॉर्गन ) is a पिशाच  .
In the film , he learns he is able to have visions and his best  dost बेनी वीयर ( atticus मिशेल )  is a spellmaster .
The series follows the three as they take on supernatural forces and have adventures , with occasional help from  fellow vampires रोरी ( cameron कैनेडी ) और एरिका ( केट  Todd ) , while dealing with the troubles of regular high school life .
A second season was confirmed to start production in September 2011  और it पहला premiered on डिज़्नी चैनल on जून 29 , 2012 , it premiered  on Teletoon September 6 , 2012 .
Télétoon started featuring season 2  sneak-peak एपीसोड on अक्तूबर 28 , 2012 और premiered  it on January 10 , 2013
Dodge B Series  यूटिलिटी circa 1950 , चलित  by Albert Namatjira
A pickup  ट्रक or pick-up , प्रायः बस  referred to as a pickup , is a light motor vehicle with an open-top , rear cargo area ( bed ) .
In North America , the term pickup is used for light trucks with a lighter duty chassis and factory built , integrated bed , as well as for coupé utility vehicles , often based on a personal car chassis , but also  प्रायः on a खास समर्पित chassi लिये  such use .
Some countries have their own terms similar to pickup , such as  ute in ऑस्ट्रेलिया और नई  Zealand , or bakkie in South Africa .
विशाल पिकअप ट्रक हैं somewhat विरल in यूरोपीय  , where vans and light lorries are commonly used for similar roles .
The  अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य of अमेरिका  ( POTUS ) is the head of state and head of government of the United States .
The president leads the executive branch of the federal government  और is the commander-in-chief  of the United States Armed Forces .
Article II of the U.S. Constitution  vests the कार्यपालिका शक्ति of the संयुक्त राज्य in the अध्यक्ष और आरोप उसे  with the execution of federal law , alongside the responsibility of appointing federal executive , diplomatic , regulatory , and judicial officers , and concluding treaties with foreign powers , with the advice and consent of the Senate .
The president is further  सशक्त to ग्रान्ट संघीय pardons और  reprieves , and to convene and adjourn either or both houses of Congress under extraordinary circumstances .
Since the founding of the United States , the power of the president and the federal government have grown substantially and each modern president , despite possessing no formal legislative powers beyond  हस्ताक्षर or vetoing congressionally passed बिल्स , is largely  responsible for dictating the legislative agenda of his party and the foreign and domestic policy of the United States .
The  अध्यक्ष is अक्सर  described as the most powerful person in the world .
The president is indirectly elected by the  लोगों through the चुनावी कॉलेज to a four-year पद  , and is one of only two nationally elected federal officers , the other being the Vice President of the United States .
The Twenty-second Amendment , adopted in 1951 , prohibits anyone from  कभी होने निर्वाचित to the प्रेसिडेंसी लिये a तीसरा पूरा  term .
It also prohibits a person from being  निर्वाचित to the प्रेसिडेंसी अधिक than एकबार if कि  person previously had served as president , or acting president , for more than two years of another person 's term as president .
In  सब , 43 individuals  have served 55 four-year terms .
On  जनवरी 20 , 2009 ,  Barack Obama became the 44th and current president .
On  नवम्बर 6 , 2012 , he थी re-elected और is  scheduled to serve until January 20 , 2017 .
Bottled  खनिज जल
Bottled water is drinking water ( e.g.  , खूब जल , आसुत जल , खनिज जल , or वसन्त  water ) packaged in plastic or glass water bottles .
बोतलबंद जल  may be carbonated or not .
Sizes range from small single serving bottles  to विशाल carboys  for water coolers .
Map of the major rivers , lakes , and  टंकी in  India
Map showing rivers  और बाढ़ prone क्षेत्रों in  India
Rivers of India play an  महत्वपूर्ण भूमिका in the जीवनदान  of the Indian people .
The river systems provide irrigation , potable water , cheap transportation , electricity , and the  livelihoods लिये a विशाल क्रमांक of लोगों सब over  the country and to rural areas .
This easily explains  क्यों nearly सब the  major cities of India are located by the banks of rivers .
The rivers also have an  महत्वपूर्ण भूमिका in हिन्दू mythology  and are considered holy by all Hindus in the country .
Seven major  नदियाँ साथ साथ उनके numerous tributaries  make up the river system of India .
Most of the rivers pour their waters into the Bay of Bengal ; however ,  कुछ of the नदियाँ जिनकी पाठ्यक्रम लो उन्हें through the पश्चिमी भाग of the देश  and towards the east of the state of Himachal Pradesh empty into the Arabian Sea .
Parts of Ladakh , northern parts of the  aravlli दायरा और the arid भाग of the थार  Desert have inland drainage .
Dr.Francis Buchanan  surveyed the पाठ्यक्रम of the नदियाँ  of India along with their tributaries and branches in 1810-11 AD and presented a minute account of it .
The shifting of  the पाठ्यक्रम और  bed over the centuries is very remarkable .
Many of the channels mentioned in that survey have  अभी become मुर्दे , सूखी or भी  extinct .
All major rivers of India originate  इससे एक of the  three main watersheds :
The  हिमालय और  the Karakoram ranges
विंध्य और satpura सीमाएँ और chotanagpur  plateau in central India
Sahyadri or Western  ghats in पश्चिमी  India
The Bretton Woods system of monetary management established the rules  लिये वाणिज्यिक  and financial relations among the world 's major industrial states in the mid-20th century .
The Bretton Woods system was the first example of a  fully negotiated मौद्रिक अनुक्रम intended to govern मौद्रिक संबंध among  independent nation-states .
Preparing to rebuild the international economic system as World War II was still  raging , 730 delegates इससे सब 44 अलाइड राष्ट्र gathered at the माउंट वॉशिंगटन होटल in bretton  Woods , New Hampshire , United States , for the United Nations Monetary and Financial Conference .
The delegates deliberated during 1–22 July 1944 , and signed  the अनुबंध on इसके फाइनल  day .
Setting up a system of rules , institutions , and procedures to regulate the international monetary system , the planners at Bretton Woods established  the अंतरराष्ट्रीय मौद्रिक निधि ( imf ) और the अंतरराष्ट्रीय बैंको लिये पुनर्निर्माण और विकास ( ibrd  ) , which today is part of the World Bank Group .
These  संगठन became operational  in 1945 after a sufficient number of countries had ratified the agreement .
The chief features of the Bretton Woods system were an  दायित्व लिये प्रत्येक देश to अपनाना a मौद्रिक नीति कि कायम the एक्सचेंज रेट by tying इसके  currency to the U.S. dollar and the ability of the IMF to bridge temporary imbalances of payments .
On 15 August 1971 , the United States  unilaterally terminated convertibility of the us  $ to gold .
This brought the Bretton  वुड्स प्रणाली to an समाप्त  and saw the dollar become fiat currency .
This action , referred to as the Nixon  शॉक , निर्मित the हालात in जिससे the संयुक्त राज्य डालर  became a reserve currency used by many states .
At the same time , many fixed currencies ( such as GBP ,  लिये उदाहरण ) , भी became फ़्री फ्लोटिंग  .
Ducati Motor Holding S.p.A. is an Italian  कम्पनी  that designs and manufactures motorcycles .
Headquartered in Bologna , Italy , Ducati is owned by Audi  through इसके इतालवी subsidiary  Lamborghini .
A credit score is a numerical expression based on  a सांख्यिकीय विश्लेषण of a व्यक्ति 's क्रेडिट  files , to represent the creditworthiness of that person .
A credit score is primarily  आधारित on क्रेडिट रपट  information typically sourced from credit bureaus .
Lenders , such as banks and credit card companies , use credit scores to evaluate the  संभावित रिस्क posed by lending धन  to consumers and to mitigate losses due to bad debt .
Lenders use credit scores to determine who qualifies for a  ऋण , at कया ब्याज रेट , और  what credit limits .
Lenders also use credit scores to  determine जिससे ग्राहक हैं संभावित to लाओ in  the most revenue .
The use of credit or identity scoring prior to authorizing access or granting credit is  an क्रियान्वयन of a विश्वसनीय  system .
Credit  स्कोरिंग is नहीं सीमित  to banks .
Other organizations ,  ऐसे as मोबाईल फोन कंपनियाँ , बीमे  companies , landlords , and government departments employ the same techniques .
Credit scoring also has a lot of overlap with  आंकड़ा खनन , जिससे  uses many similar techniques .
These techniques combine  हज़ारों of कारकों लकिन वे हैं अधिक or कम समान  or the same .
The seven SI base units and the interdependency of their definitions : for example , to extract the definition of the metre from the speed of light  , the परिभाषा of the दूसरी जरूर be ज्ञात जबकि the ampere  and candela are both dependent on the definition of energy which in turn is defined in terms of length , mass and time .
The International System of Units ( SI ) defines seven  इकाई of माप as a मौलिक नियत इससे जिससे  all other SI units are derived .
These SI base units and their  शारीरिक quantities  are:
metre for length  ( us अंग्रेज़ी :  meter )
किलोग्राम लिये द्रव्यमान ( नोट  : not the gram )
दूसरी  for time
ampere  लिये इलेक्ट्रिक  current
kelvin  लिये तापमान
candela लिये  luminous intensity
mole for the amount  of पदार्थ  .
The SI base quantities form a set of mutually  स्वतंत्र आयाम as जरूरी by आयामी  analysis commonly employed in science and technology .
however , in a दिए realization of ये इकाई वे may  well be interdependent , i.e . defined in terms of each other .
The names of SI units are written in lowercase  वर्ण ( the 'degree सेल्सियस ' meets इस नियम , as  'degree ' is the unit , and 'Celsius ' is a modifier ) .
The symbols  of इकाई हैं लिखा in लोअरकेस ( e.g . मीटर रै the प्रतीक m ) , मगर  that symbols for units named after persons are written with an initial capital letter ( e.g. , the hertz has the uppercase symbol Hz ) .
Many other units , such as the litre (  us अंग्रेज़ी : लीनियर ) , हैं formally नहीं भाग of the si  , but are accepted for use with SI .
स्मारक  Canyon
Colorado National Monument ( locally referred to as The Monument ) is a  भाग of the नेशनल पार्क  Service near the city of Grand Junction , Colorado .
Spectacular canyons cut  गहन into sandstone और भी granite–gneiss–schist  rock formations , in some areas .
This is an area of desert land high on the Colorado Plateau , with pinion and  juniper वनों on the पठार  .
The park hosts a wide range of wildlife , including red-tailed hawks and golden eagles , ravens ,  jays , मरुस्थल bighorn शीप , और  coyotes .
Activities include hiking , horseback riding ,  सड़क bicycling , और दर्शनीय ड्राइव ; a आगंतुक  center on the west side contains a natural history museum and gift shop .
वहीँ हैं भव्य दृश्य इससे trails और the  Rim Rock Drive , which winds along the plateau .
Nearby are the Book Cliffs  , और the largest flat-topped पहाड़  in the world , the Grand Mesa .
Its feature attraction is Monument Canyon , which runs the width of the park , and includes rock formations  ऐसे as स्वतंत्रता स्मारक  , the Kissing Couple , and Coke Ovens .
The monument includes 20,500 acres ( 32 square  मील ) , much of जिससे रै महरूम अनुशंसित to कॉंग्रेस लिये नामांकन  as wilderness .
left to right : Utility  वर्दी , ब्लू पोशाक वर्दी , सेवा वर्दी  , and Evening Dress uniforms
The Uniforms of the United  राज्य समुद्री corps  serve to distinguish Marines from members of other services .
Among current uniforms in the United States Armed Forces , the Marines '  वर्दी have महरूम in सेवा the longest .
The Marine Dress Blue uniform has , with few changes , been worn in essentially  इसके वर्तमान रूप चूंकि the 19th सदी  .
North American telephone area codes 419 and 567 serve the northwest  quadrant of the u.S. राज्य of  Ohio .
The largest city served by these area codes  is टोलेडो ( और इसके उपनगरों of हॉलैंड , maumee , northwood , ऑरेगॉन  , Ottawa Hills , Perrysburg , Rossford , Sylvania , Swanton , Waterville , and Whitehouse ) .
अन्य शहरों परोसा by ये क्षेत्रफल कोड शामिल एडीए , ashland , bellevue , bluffton , बोलिंग ग्रीन , ब्रायन , bucyrus , celina , क्लाइड , crestline , defiance , delphos , एडिसन  , Erastus , Findlay , Fostoria , Fremont , Galion , Kenton , Lima , Mansfield , Mount Gilead , Napoleon , Norwalk , Oak Harbor , Port Clinton , Sandusky , Shelby , St. Marys , Tiffin , Upper Sandusky , Van Wert , Wapakoneta , Wauseon , Willard .
Other areas served include the Lake  erie आइलैंड्स उत्तर  of Port Clinton and west of Sandusky .
The main area code , 419 , was created as one of the original area codes in October  1947 ; the ओवरले क्षेत्रफल कोड 567 थी निर्मित on जनवरी 1 ,  2002 .
Despite the presence of Toledo , the state  's fourth-largest नगर , 419 थी the पिछला of ओहियो 's असली चार क्षेत्रफल  codes to have been split or overlaid .
Mickey Leroy Gilley ( born March 9 , 1936 )  is an अमरीकी देश म्यूज़िक  singer and musician .
हालांकि he प्रारंभ आउट गायन straight-up देश और पश्चिमी  material in the 1970s , he moved towards a more pop -friendly sound in the 1980s , bringing him further success on not just the country charts , but the pop charts as well .
Among his biggest hits are ``  रूम पूरा of गुलाब , '' `` do n't the लड़कियों सब मिलेंगी  Prettier at Closing Time , '' and the remake of the Soul hit `` Stand by Me `` .
He is also the cousin of Jerry Lee  लुईस , कार्ल mcvoy , जिम gilley और  Jimmy Swaggart .
According to the Federal Aviation Administration ,  gilley is a licensed पायलट , जो holds an यंत्र दरजा साथ वाणिज्यिक पायलट privileges लिये multi-engine airplanes  , as well as private pilot privileges for single engine aircraft .
The September 11 attacks ( also referred to as September 11 , September 11th , or 9/11 ) were a series of  चार समन्वित आतंकवादी हमले शुभारम्भ by the इस्लामी  terrorist group al-Qaeda upon the United States in New York City and the Washington , D.C. area on September 11 , 2001 .
Four passenger airliners were hijacked by 19  al-qaeda आतंकवादी so वे could  be flown into buildings in suicide attacks .
Two of those planes , American Airlines Flight 11 and United Airlines Flight 175 , were crashed into the North and  दक्षिण मीनारें , क्रमशः , of the संसार व्यापार बीच जटिल  in New York City .
Within two hours , both towers collapsed with debris and the resulting fires causing partial or complete  पतन of सब अन्य इमारतें in the wtc जटिल , as खूब as प्रमुख क्षति to टेन अन्य विशाल  surrounding structures .
A third plane , American Airlines  उड़ान 77 , थी क्रैश into the प्रस्तुतीकरण ( the  headquarters of the United States Department of Defense ) , leading to a partial collapse in its western side .
The fourth plane , United Airlines Flight 93 , was targeted at the United States Capitol in  वॉशिंगटन , d.C. , लकिन क्रैश into a फ़ील्ड निकट shanksville , पेन्सिलवेनिया , बाद  its passengers tried to overcome the hijackers .
In total ,  लगभग 3,000 लोगों died in the हमले , सहित  the 227 civilians and 19 hijackers aboard the four planes .
Suspicion  जल्दी गिरी on  al-Qaeda .
Although the group 's leader , Osama bin Laden ,  initially अस्वीकृत कोई भागीदारी , in 2004 he claimed जिम्मेदारी  for the attacks .
Al-Qaeda and bin Laden cited U.S. support of Israel , the presence of  u.S. सैनिकों in सऊदी अरब , और प्रतिबंधों विरूद्ध इराकी  as motives for the attacks .
The United States responded to the attacks by launching the War on Terror and invading Afghanistan to  depose the तालिबान , जिससे था harbored  al-Qaeda .
Many  देशों strengthened उनके anti-terrorism  legislation and expanded law enforcement powers .
Having evaded capture for years , bin Laden  थी स्तिथ और मारे by u.S. शक्तियां  in May 2011 .
The  विनाश of the जुड़वा मीनारें और अन्य गुण caused  serious damage to the economy of Lower Manhattan and had a significant effect on global markets .
Cleanup of the  संसार व्यापार बीच साईट थी समाप्त  in May 2002 , and the Pentagon was repaired within a year .
Numerous memorials have been  constructed , सहित the नेशनल सितंबर 11 मेमोरियल & संग्रहालय in नई यॉर्क , the प्रस्तुतीकरण  Memorial , and the Flight 93 National Memorial in Pennsylvania .
After a lengthy delay , the One World Trade Center is expected to  be समाप्त at मैदान शून्य in नई यॉर्क नगर in 2013  .
Finding Nemo is a 2003  अमरीकी computer-animated comedy-drama एडवेंचर फिल्मी लिखा और निर्देशित by एंड्रयू stanton , released  by Walt Disney Pictures , and the fifth film produced by Pixar Animation Studios .
It tells the story of the over-protective clownfish named Marlin ( Albert Brooks ) who , along with a regal  तंग नामित dory ( एलेन degeneres ) , खोज लिये उसके abducted बेटे nemo ( सिकंदर gould )  all the way to Sydney Harbour .
साथ the रास्ता , marlin learns  to take risks and let Nemo take care of himself .
It is Pixar 's first film to be released  in cinemas in the उत्तरी गोलार्ध  summer .
The film was re-released for the first time in 3D on  सितंबर 14 , 2012 , और it थी released  on Blu-ray on December 4 , 2012 .
A sequel ,  ढूंढना dory , is फिलहाल  in development , set to be released on November 25 , 2015 .
The film received universal critical acclaim and won the  अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन एनिमेटेड विशेषता , और थी मनोनीत in तीन  more categories including Best Original Screenplay .
It was the  दूसरी highest-grossing फिल्मी of  2003 , earning a total of $ 921 million worldwide .
Finding Nemo is also the best-selling DVD of all time , with  over 40 लाख नक़ल बेची as of 2006 , और थी the highest-grossing g-rated फिल्मी of सब समय  before Pixar 's own Toy Story 3 overtook it .
It is also the 23rd highest-grossing film of all time , as well as the 3rd  highest-grossing एनिमेटेड फिल्मी .
In 2008 , the American Film Institute  नामित it the दसवाँ महानतम एनिमेटेड  film ever made during their Top 10 .
The sixth season of America  's बेहतरीन नृत्य क्रू , भी ज्ञात as अमेरिका 's बेहतरीन  Dance Crew : Season of the Superstars , premiered on April 7 , 2011 and concluded on June 5 , 2011 .
Auditions were held in four cities from January 21 through  फ़रवरी 5 : शिकागो , ह्यूस्टन , नई  York , and Los Angeles .
This season takes a different  रूट इससे पास्ट सीज़न  .
The crews must perform to the music of one specific artist each week ,  सहित रिहाना  , Lil Wayne , and other popular stars .
This season also features  खास अतिथि दिखावे by विभिन्न म्यूज़िक  celebrities including Justin Bieber , The Black Eyed Peas , Katy Perry , Kesha , Nicki Minaj , and Kanye West .
Dominic `` D-Trix '' Sandoval , a former member of Quest Crew , the winner of the third  ऋतु of अमेरिका 's बेहतरीन नृत्य क्रू , joins returning न्यायाधीशों लील मामा  and JC Chasez as the newest judge .
In the season finale , I aM mE was declared the winner of Season 6 and received  the $ 100,000 ( usd ) पुरस्कार  .
In the United States , Social Security refers to the Old-Age ,  survivors , और विकलांगता बीमे ( oasdi ) संघीय कार्यक्रम  .
The  असली सोशल सुरक्षा अधिनियम ( 1935 ) और the वर्तमान संस्करण of the अधिनियम  , as amended , encompass several social welfare and social insurance programs .
Social Security is primarily  वित्तपोषित through समर्पित payroll कर पुकारा संघीय  Insurance Contributions Act tax ( FICA ) .
Tax deposits are formally entrusted to the Federal Old-Age and Survivors  बीमे विश्वास निधि , the संघीय विकलांगता बीमे विश्वास निधि , the संघीय हॉस्पिटल बीमे  Trust Fund , or the Federal Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Fund which comprise the Social Security Trust Fund .
Upward redistribution of income is responsible for about 43 % of the projected Social  सुरक्षा shortfall over  the next 75 years .
According to economist Martin Feldstein , the combined spending  लिये सब सोशल बीमे कार्यक्रम in 2003 गठित 37 % of सरकारी  expenditure and 7 % of the gross domestic product .
Social Security  is फिलहाल अनुमानित to  keep roughly 40 percent of all Americans age 65 or older out of poverty .
The Social Security  प्रशासन is headquartered  in Woodlawn , Maryland , just west of Baltimore .
The alcohol by volume shown on  a बोतल of absinthe  .
Alcohol by volume ( abbreviated as ABV , abv , or alc/vol ) is a  मानक माप of कैसा much दारू ( इथेनॉल ) is contained  in an alcoholic beverage ( expressed as a percentage of total volume ) .
the abv मानक  is used worldwide .
In some countries , alcohol by volume is referred to as  डिग्री gay-lussac ( बाद the फ्रेंच केमिस्ट  Joseph Louis Gay-Lussac ) .
Laurel  खोखला is a गाँव in the कस्बा of सीप खाड़ी  in Nassau County , New York in the United States .
The population  थी 1,952 at the  2010 census .
Charles John Huffam  डिकेंस ( ; 7 फ़रवरी 1812 – 9 जून 1870  ) was an English writer and social critic .
he निर्मित कुछ of the संसार 's सबसे यादगार fictional  characters and is generally regarded as the greatest novelist of the Victorian period .
During his life , his works enjoyed  unprecedented कीर्ति , और by the बीसवीं सदी  his literary genius was broadly acknowledged by critics and scholars .
His novels and short stories  continue to be widely  popular .
Born in Portsmouth , England , Dickens left  स्कूल to कार्य in a फैक्टरी बाद उसके पिता थी thrown  into debtors ' prison .
Although he had little formal education , his  जल्दी impoverishment drove उसे to सफल  .
Over his career he edited a weekly journal for 20 years , wrote 15 novels , 5 novellas and hundreds of short stories and non-fiction articles , lectured and performed  extensively , थी an indefatigable अक्षर लेखक  , and campaigned vigorously for children 's rights , education , and other social reforms .
Dickens sprang to fame with the 1836  सीरियल प्रकाशन of the pickwick  Papers .
Within a few years he had become an international literary celebrity , famous for his  ह्यूमर , व्यंग्य , और keen अवलोकन of अक्षर और समाज  .
His novels , most published in monthly or weekly instalments , pioneered the serial publication of narrative fiction , which became the  प्रबल विक्टोरियन विधि लिये अनोखा प्रकाशन  .
The instalment format allowed Dickens to evaluate his  दर्शक 's प्रतिक्रिया , और he प्रायः परिवर्धित उसके  plot and character development based on such feedback .
For example , when his wife 's chiropodist  expressed तकलीफ at the रास्ता मिस mowcher in दाउद कॉपरफील्ड लगा  to reflect her disabilities , Dickens went on to improve the character with positive lineaments .
Fagin in Oliver Twist apparently mirrors the famous fence Ikey Solomon  ; उसके कैरीकेचर of leigh हंट in the फिगर of mr skimpole in bleak हाउस  was likewise toned down on advice from some of his friends , as they read episodes .
In the same novel , both  लॉरेंस boythorne और मूनी the beadle हैं drawn इससे रियल जीवन – boythorne  from Walter Savage Landor and Mooney from 'Looney ' , a beadle at Salisbury Square .
His plots were carefully  constructed , और डिकेंस प्रायः wove in तत्व  from topical events into his narratives .
Masses of the illiterate poor chipped in ha'pennies to have each new monthly episode  पढ़ा to उन्हें , खोलने up और प्रेरणादायी a नई क्लास of पाठक  .
Dickens was regarded as the  साहित्यिक colossus of  his age .
His 1843 novella , A Christmas Carol , is one of the most influential works ever written , and it  remains लोकप्रिय और continues to inspire adaptations in प्रत्येक कलाकारी  genre .
His creative genius  रै महरूम praised by  fellow writers—from Leo Tolstoy to G. K. Chesterton and George Orwell —for its realism , comedy , prose style , unique characterisations , and social criticism .
On the other hand Oscar Wilde , Henry James and Virginia Woolf complained of a lack of  मनोवैज्ञानिक गहराई , ढीला लिखने , और a रग of  saccharine sentimentalism .
Martin Luther King and other civil rights leaders in front of the statue of Abraham  lincoln , अगस्त 28 , 1963
The civil rights  गति थी a श्रेणी of विश्वव्यापी राजनैतिक आंदोलनों  for equality before the law that peaked in the 1960s .
In many situations it took  the रूप of अभियान of सिविल प्रतिरोध  aimed at achieving change by nonviolent forms of resistance .
In some situations it was  accompanied , or followed , by  civil unrest and armed rebellion .
The  प्रक्रम थी long और tenuous in अनेक देशों , और अनेक of ये  movements did not fully achieve their goals although , the efforts of these movements did lead to improvements in the legal rights of previously oppressed groups of people .
The main aim of the civil rights movement included  , और शामिल , ensuring कि the अधिकारों of सब लोगों  are equally protected by the law , including the rights of minorities .
Civil rights movements ranging from the global LGBT rights movement to the global Women 's  अधिकारों गति to विभिन्न जातिगत अल्पसंख्यक अधिकारों  movements around the world continue .
The 2010 FIFA World Cup was the 19th FIFA World Cup , the world championship  लिये मेन 's नेशनल संघ  football teams .
It took place  in दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी इससे  11 June to 11 July 2010 .
The bidding process for hosting the tournament finals was open  तभी to अफ़्रीकी राष्ट्र ; in 2004 , the अंतरराष्ट्रीय फ़ुटबॉल संघ , फीफा , चयनित दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी over  Egypt and Morocco to become the first African nation to host the finals .
The matches were played in ten stadiums in nine host cities around the country , with the final played at the  सॉकर नगर स्टेडियम in दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी 's largest नगर , जोहान्सबर्ग  .
Thirty-two teams were selected for participation via a worldwide  योग्यता  tournament that began in August 2007 .
In the first round of the tournament finals , the teams competed in  round-robin समूह  of four teams for points , with the top two teams in each group proceeding .
These sixteen teams advanced to the knockout stage , where three rounds of  खेल decided जिससे टीमों होता participate in the  final .
In the final , Spain , the European champions , defeated third-time finalists the Netherlands 1–0 after extra time , with Andrés Iniesta 's goal in the 116th minute  giving स्पेन उनके पहला संसार शीर्षक , बनने the आठवीं स्वदेश to जीत the टूर्नामेंट , और the पहला यूरोपीय स्वदेश to जीत the  tournament outside its home continent .
मेजबान स्वदेश दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी , 2006 संसार champions  Italy and 2006 runners-up France were all eliminated in the first round of the tournament .
It was the first time that the hosts  यहूद eliminated in the पहला  round .
New Zealand with their three draws were the only undefeated team in  the टूर्नामेंट , लकिन यहूद भी eliminated in the पहला गोलाकार  .
The McMuffin  is a परिवार of नाश्ता सैंडविच in विभिन्न आकार और configurations  , sold by the fast-food restaurant chain McDonald 's .
The Egg McMuffin is the signature  नाश्ता सैंडविच ; it थी invented by the लेट मैकडोनाल्ड 's वाल  Herb Peterson in the late 1960s and was introduced nationwide in 1972 .
John Lennon was an English musician who gained worldwide fame as one of the  संस्थापकों of the बीटल्स , लिये उसके subsequent सोलो करियर , और  for his political activism and pacifism .
He was shot by Mark David Chapman at the entrance of the building where he lived , The Dakota , in  नई यॉर्क नगर on 8 दिसम्बर 1980 .
Lennon had just returned from Record Plant Studio  साथ उसके बीवी , योको  Ono .
Lennon was pronounced dead on arrival at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center , where it was stated that  nobody could have जिया लिये अधिक than a few मिनट्स बाद sustaining ऐसे चोटों  .
Shortly after local news  स्टेशन reported लेनन 's मौत , crowds  gathered at Roosevelt Hospital and in front of the Dakota .
Lennon was cremated on 10  दिसम्बर 1980 at the ferncliff कब्रिस्तान in hartsdale  , New York ; the ashes were given to Ono , who chose not to hold a funeral for him .
The first report of Lennon 's death to a  u.S. नेशनल दर्शक थी घोषित by हावर्ड cosell , on  ABC 's Monday Night Football .
New Orleans ( or , locally or ; ) is a major United States port  और the largest नगर और  metropolitan area in the state of Louisiana .
The population  of the नगर थी 343,829  as of the 2010 U.S. Census .
The New Orleans  महानगर क्षेत्रफल ( नई orleans–metairie–kenner महानगर  Statistical Area ) had a population of 1,167,764 in 2010 and was the 46th largest in the United States .
The New  orleans–metairie–bogalusa संयुक्त सांख्यिकीय क्षेत्रफल , a larger व्यापार  area , had a 2010 population of 1,214,932 .
The city is named after Orléans , a city located on the Loire River in Centre , France , and is well known for its distinct  फ्रेंच क्रियोल वास्तुकला , as खूब as इसके cross-cultural और बहुभाषी विरासत  .
New Orleans is also famous for its  भोजन , म्यूज़िक ( विशेषकर as the जन्मस्थान of जैज़ ) , और इसके  annual celebrations and festivals , most notably Mardi Gras .
The city is often  referred to as  the `` most unique '' in America .
New Orleans  is स्तिथ in southeastern louisiana  , straddling the Mississippi River .
The city and  ऑरलियन्स मोहल्ला  ( ) are .
The city and parish are bounded by the parishes of St. Tammany  to the उत्तर , st. बर्नार्ड  to the east , Plaquemines to the south and Jefferson to the south and west .
Lake Pontchartrain , part of which is included in the city limits , lies to the north  और झील borgne झूठ to the ईस्ट  .
The United States presidential election of 1968 was the 46th quadrennial  अध्यक्षीय चुनाव , आयोजित on मंगलवार , नवम्बर 5 , 1968  .
The Republican nominee , former Vice-President Richard Nixon , won the election over the Democratic  nominee , लाज़िम vice-president  Hubert Humphrey .
Nixon ran  on a अभियान कि promised to restore विधि और अनुक्रम  to the nation 's cities , torn by riots and crime .
Analysts have argued the election of 1968 is a realigning  चुनाव as it permanently disrupted the नई सौदे गठबन्धन कि था  dominated presidential politics for 36 years .
Coming four years after Democrat Lyndon B. Johnson  जीती in a ऐतिहासिक भूस्खलन , the चुनाव देखी the लाज़िम अध्यक्ष मजबूर आउट of the रेस और a रिपब्लिकन  elected for the first time in twelve years .
It was a wrenching  नेशनल अनुभव , conducted दौरान a साल of हिंसा कि शामिल the हत्या of सिविल अधिकारों नेता मार्टिन लूथर किंग , jr. , और subsequent रेस दंगे आरपार the स्वदेश , the assasination of लोकतांत्रिक अध्यक्षीय  candidate Robert F. Kennedy , widespread opposition to the Vietnam War across university campuses , and violent confrontations between police and anti-war protesters at the 1968 Democratic National Convention as the Democratic party split again and again .
The  चुनाव प्रदर्शित the strongest तीसरा  party effort since 1912 by former Alabama Governor George Wallace , a Democrat .
Because Wallace 's  अभियान opposed संघीय हस्तक्षेप in the दक्षिण to  end school segregation , he carried the Deep South and ran well in ethnic industrial districts in the North .
This was the last election in which New York had the most votes  in the चुनावी कॉलेज  ( 43 votes ) .
After the 1970 census , California gained the most  चुनावी मत और रै remained the सबसे populous राज्य  since then .
This is the latest election where a presidential ticket won without  carrying the वाइस अध्यक्षीय प्रत्याशी  's home state .
Karak ( ; also known as Garak , Garrak , and Gorg ) is a village in  gamasiyab ग्रामीण ज़िला , in the सेंट्रल ज़िला of nahavand  County , Hamadan Province , Iran .
At the 2006  जनसांख्यिकी , इसके जनसांख्यिकी थी  294 , in 65 families .
Kurt 's  हस्ताक्षर
Kurt Donald Cobain ( February 20 , 1967  – अप्रैल 5 , 1994 ) थी an अमरीकी संगीतकार और कलाकार , बेहतरीन  known as the lead singer , guitarist and primary songwriter of the grunge band Nirvana .
Cobain formed Nirvana with Krist Novoselic in Aberdeen , Washington in  1985 और स्थापित  it as part of the Seattle music scene , having its debut album Bleach released on the independent record label Sub Pop in 1989 .
After signing  साथ प्रमुख लेबल dgc रिकॉर्ड , the बैंड मिला भेदन कामयाबी  with `` Smells Like Teen Spirit `` from its second album Nevermind ( 1991 ) .
Following the success of  nevermind , निर्वाण थी labeled `` the फ्लैगशिप बैंड '' of पीढी x  , and Cobain hailed as `` the spokesman of a generation '' .
Cobain ,  however , थी प्रायः असहज और कुंठित , believing  his message and artistic vision to have been misinterpreted by the public , with his personal issues often subject to media attention .
He challenged Nirvana 's audience  साथ इसके फाइनल स्टुडियो एल्बम  In Utero ( 1993 ) .
During the last years of his life  , कोबेन struggled साथ हेरोइन व्यसन  , illness and depression .
He also  था परेशानी coping साथ उसके कीर्ति और पब्लिक चित्र  , and the professional and lifelong personal pressures surrounding himself and his wife , musician Courtney Love .
On April 8 , 1994 , Cobain was found dead at his  घर in सिएटल , the शिकार of कया थी officially शासित a आत्महत्या  by a self-inflicted shotgun wound to the head .
The circumstances  of उसके मौत at आयु 27 have become a टॉपिक  of public fascination and debate .
Since their debut , Nirvana , with Cobain as a songwriter , has sold  over 25 लाख एल्बम in the u.S. , और over 50 लाख  worldwide .
A millwright is a craftsman or  tradesman सगाई साथ the निर्माण और  maintenance of machinery .
More generally in the English speaking world , early millwrights were specialist carpenters who erected  मशीने प्रयुक्त in कृषि , खाना प्रसंस्करण और प्रसंस्करण lumber और  paper .
In the early part of the Industrial Revolution , their skills  यहूद दबाया into सेवा भवन the earliest संचालित वस्त्र  mills .
Modern millwrights work with steel and other materials in addition to wood and must often combine the skills of several skilled trades in order to  सफलतापूर्वक fabricate औद्योगिक मशीनरी or to इकट्ठे मशीने  from pre-fabricated parts .
The modern millwright must also be able to read blueprints and  अन्य schematics to सहायता उसे in the निर्माण  of complex systems .
Millwrights are frequently unionized ,  साथ around 45 % unionized in the us , हालांकि अनुभवी millwrights  often set themselves up as independent contractors .
The Adjustment Bureau is a 2011 American romantic action thriller film loosely based on the  फिलिप K. लंड छोटी स्टोरी , `` समायोजन टोली  `` .
the फिल्मी थी लिखा  and directed by George Nolfi and stars Matt Damon and Emily Blunt .
The cast also includes Anthony  mackie , जॉन slattery , माइकल केली , और  Terence Stamp .
The score was composed by Thomas Newman , with two songs by Richard Ashcroft ( ``  भविष्य 's उज्जवल '' लिये the खोलने अनुक्रम ; `` हैं तुम तैयार ?  '' for the closing credits ) .
Sodium azide is  the अकार्बनिक यौगिक  with the formula NaN3 .
This colorless salt is the gas-forming component  in अनेक car एयरबैग प्रणालियों  .
It is  प्रयुक्त लिये the तैयारी  of other azide compounds .
It is an ionic substance , is highly soluble in  जल , और is बहुत acutely विषाक्त  .
Double rainbow and supernumerary rainbows  on the अंदर of the प्राथमिक चाप  .
The shadow of the photographer 's head on the  नीचे marks the केन्द्र of the  rainbow circle ( antisolar point ) .
A rainbow is an optical and meteorological phenomenon that is caused by reflection of  लाइट in जल droplets in the धरती  's atmosphere , resulting in a spectrum of light appearing in the sky .
it takes the रूप  of a multicoloured arc .
rainbows caused by धूप  always appear in the section of sky directly opposite the sun .
In a `` primary rainbow '' , the arc shows red on the  बाहरी भाग और बैंगनी on the  inner side .
This rainbow is caused by light being refracted while  प्रवेश a droplet of जल , तब reflected  inside on the back of the droplet and refracted again when leaving it .
In a double rainbow , a second arc is seen  बाहर the प्राथमिक चाप , और  has the order of its colours reversed , red facing toward the other one , in both rainbows .
This second rainbow  is caused by लाइट reflecting  twice inside water droplets .
The  रूढ़िवादी पार्टी , officially the रूढ़िवादी और  Unionist Party and colloquially referred to as the Tory Party or the Tories , is a centre-right political party in the United Kingdom that espouses the philosophies of conservatism and British unionism .
it is the largest political party in the United Kingdom , being the largest single party in the House of  कॉमन्स साथ 303 mps , the largest पार्टी in लोकल सरकारी साथ 9,391 पार्षदों , और the largest  British party in the European Parliament with 25 MEPs .
It governs in  गठबन्धन साथ the उदार डेमोक्रेट ,  with party leader David Cameron as Prime Minister .
The  रूढ़िवादी पार्टी थी संस्थापित in 1834 , और थी  one of two dominant parties in the 19th century , along with the Liberal Party .
It changed its name to the Conservative and Unionist Party in 1912 after merging with the Liberal Unionist Party , although that name  is rarely प्रयुक्त और it is generally referred to as बस  the Conservative Party .
In the 1920s , the Liberal vote greatly diminished and the Labour Party  became the conservatives ' प्रमुख विरोधियों  .
Conservative Prime Ministers led governments for 57 years of the 20th century , including Winston  चर्चिल ( 1940–45 , 1951–55 ) और मार्गरेट थैचर  ( 1979–90 ) .
Thatcher 's tenure led to wide-ranging economic liberalisation and saw the  conservatives become the सबसे eurosceptic  of the three major parties .
The party was returned to government in coalition , having failed to win a  बहुमत , in 2010 अंतर्गत the अधिक `` उदार '' नेतृत्व  of David Cameron .
In the European Parliament , the Conservatives are the largest British party with 25 MEPs , who sit with the soft eurosceptic European Conservatives and Reformists ( ECR )  संसदीय समूह , जबकि the पार्टी itself is a सदस्य of the गठबंधन of यूरोपीय conservatives  and Reformists ( AECR ) Europarty .
They  हैं the third-largest पार्टी in the स्कॉटिश पार्लियामेंट  and second-largest in the Welsh Assembly .
They were formally allied to the Ulster Unionist Party ( UUP ) as part  of the ulster conservatives और unionists व्यवस्था , साथ the uup फिलहाल participating  in the five-party Northern Ireland Executive .
Destiny 's Child was an American R & B girl group whose final , and perhaps most recognizable , line-up comprised  बेयोंस नॉलेस , केली rowland और मिशेल विलियम्स  .
Formed in 1990 in Houston , Texas , Destiny 's Child members began their  musical endeavors as लड़की 's टीमे comprising , among  others , Knowles , Rowland , LaTavia Roberson and LeToya Luckett .
After years of limited  कामयाबी , वे यहूद हस्ताक्षरित to कोलंबिया रिकॉर्ड  as Destiny 's Child .
Destiny 's Child was launched into mainstream recognition following the  रिलीज of उनके best-selling दूसरी एल्बम , the लिखने 's on the वॉल  , which contained the number-one singles `` Bills , Bills , Bills `` and `` Say My Name `` .
despite नाजुक और वाणिज्यिक कामयाबी , the समूह थी plagued by आतंरिक विरोध और विधिक turmoil , as roberson और luckett attempted  to split from the group 's manager Mathew Knowles , citing favoritism of Knowles and Rowland , his daughter and niece , respectively .
Both Roberson and Luckett were soon  replaced साथ विलियम्स और farrah फ्रैंकलिन ; however , in 2000 , फ्रैंकलिन थी  dismissed , leaving them as a trio .
Their third album , Survivor , which contains themes the public  interpreted as a चैनल to the समूह 's अनुभव , contains the  worldwide hits `` Independent Women `` , `` Survivor `` and `` Bootylicious `` .
In 2002 , they announced a hiatus and re-united two years later  लिये the रिलीज of उनके चौथी स्टुडियो एल्बम ,  Destiny Fulfilled ( 2004 ) .
Destiny  's चाइल्ड रै बेची अधिक  than 50 million records worldwide to date .
Billboard magazine ranks the group as one of the greatest musical trios of all time , the ninth most  कामयाब artist/band of the 2000s , और लगाई the समूह 68th in इसके  All-Time Hot 100 Artists list in 2008 .
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( CDC ) is a United States federal agency under the Department of Health and Human  सेवाएं headquartered in druid पहाड़ियाँ , unincorporated dekalb  County , Georgia , in Greater Atlanta .
It works to protect public health and  सुरक्षा by providing सूचना to बढ़ाएँ स्वास्थ्य निर्णय , और it promotes स्वास्थ्य  through partnerships with state health departments and other organizations .
The CDC focus national attention on developing and applying disease prevention and control ( especially infectious diseases and foodborne pathogens and other microbial infections ) , environmental  स्वास्थ्य , occupational सुरक्षा और स्वास्थ्य , स्वास्थ्य प्रमोशन , चोट रोकथाम और शिक्षा क्रियाएँ designed to improve the  health of the people of the United States .
The CDC is the United States ' national public  स्वास्थ्य संस्थान और is a founding सदस्य of the अंतरराष्ट्रीय संघ  of National Public Health Institutes .
Earthquake prediction `` is usually defined as the specification of the time , location , and magnitude of a future  भूकंप भीतर stated हद '' , और विशेषकर of `` the अगला दमदार भूकंप to occur in a प्रदेश  . ''
This can be distinguished from earthquake forecasting , which is the probabilistic assessment of general earthquake hazard ,  सहित the आवृत्ति और परिमाण of damaging भूकंप ,  in a given area over periods of years or decades .
This can be further  विशिष्ट इससे real-time भूकंप चेतावनी प्रणालियों , जिससे , upon डिटेक्शन of  a severe earthquake , can provide neighboring regions a few seconds warning of potentially significant shaking .
To be useful , an earthquake prediction must  be precise पर्याप्त to वारंट the लागत of increased एहतियात , सहित  disruption of ordinary activities and commerce , and timely enough that preparation can be made .
Predictions must also be reliable , as false alarms and cancelled alarms are not only  economically costly , लकिन seriously undermine  confidence in , and thereby the effectiveness of , any kind of warning .
With over 7,000 earthquakes around the world each year with a magnitude of 4.0 or greater , trivial success in  भूकंप भविष्यवाणी is easily प्राप्त using fear व्यापक पैरामीटर्स  of time , location , or magnitude .
However , such trivial `` successful  पूर्वानुमान '' हैं नहीं  useful .
Major earthquakes are often followed by reports that they were  पूर्वानुमानित , or at तनिक anticipated , लकिन no अर्जी of a कामयाब भविष्यवाणी  of a major earthquake has survived close inquiry .
In the 1970s there was intense optimism amongst scientists that some method of predicting earthquakes might be  मिला , लकिन by the 1990s continuing विफलता led अनेक वैज्ञानिकों to सवाल whether it  was even possible .
While many  वैज्ञानिकों स्टिल थाम कि , दिए पर्याप्त संसाधन , भविष्यवाणी might be  possible , many others maintain that earthquake prediction is inherently impossible .
Deborah Ann `` Debby '' Ryan ( born May 13 , 1993  ) is an अमरीकी अभिनेत्री , सिंगर , संगीतकार , songwriter  and record producer .
Ryan is best known for starring as Bailey Pickett in the Disney  चैनल असली श्रेणी the सुइट जीवन  on Deck .
In 2008 , The Suite Life on Deck ranked as  tv 's शीर्ष श्रेणी among बच्चे 6-11 और the no . 2  scripted series among tweens 9-14 .
रयान प्रारंभ एक्टिंग in पेशेवर थिएटर at the आयु of सात  ; in 2007 she appeared in the Barney & Friends straight-to-DVD film Barney : Let 's Go to the Firehouse and then was discovered in a nationwide search by Disney .
She is also known for appearing in  the 2008 विशेषता फिल्मी the longshots as  Edith .
In 2009 , she guest  स्ट्रक्चर in an एपीसोड of wizards of waverly प्लेस in wizards on डेक साथ हन्ना मोंटाना as बेली पिकेट  along with her other cast mates from The Suite Life on Deck .
Then , in 2010 , she starred in the film 16 Wishes ,  जिससे थी the सबसे देखी केबल कार्यक्रम on  the day of its premiere on the Disney Channel .
16 Wishes introduced Ryan to new audiences ; the movie received high viewership in  the वयस्कों जनसांख्यिकी ( 18-34 )  .
Soon after that ,  रयान स्ट्रक्चर in the स्वतंत्र नाट्य फिल्मी  , What If ... , which premiered on August 20 , 2010 .
Ryan also starred in the new  डिज़्नी चैनल असली फिल्म , रेडियो विद्रोही , जहाँ वो portrays the भूमिका of tara  Adams , a shy 17-year-old girl who adopts the radio personality , Radio Rebel .
released फ़रवरी  17 , 2012 .
Ryan  सितारों in the titular भूमिका in the डिज़्नी  Channel Original Series , Jessie .
Stührling  tourbillon गति (  ) .
In  horology , a tourbillon ( ; `` whirlwind  '' ) is an addition to the mechanics of a watch escapement .
Developed around 1795 by the French-Swiss watchmaker Abraham-Louis Breguet from an earlier idea by the English chronometer maker John Arnold , a tourbillon aims to  काउंटर the प्रभाव of गम्भीरता by mounting the escapement और संतुलन व्हील in a घूर्णन पिंजरा , to negate the प्रभाव of गम्भीरता जब the  timepiece ( thus the escapement ) is stuck in a certain position .
Originally an attempt to improve accuracy , tourbillons are still included in some  महंगी आधुनिक घड़ियाँ as a विलक्षणता और demonstration  of watchmaking virtuosity .
The  यांत्रिकी is प्रायः उजागर  on the watch 's face to show it off .
The Windows Installer ( previously known as Microsoft Installer ) is a software  घटक प्रयुक्त लिये the संस्थापना , मेंटेनेंस , और हटाना of तन्त्र on आधुनिक  Microsoft Windows systems .
The installation information , and often the files themselves , are packaged in installation packages , loosely relational  databases संरचित as com संरचित storages और commonly ज्ञात as `` msi फाइलें '' , इससे  their default file extension .
Windows Installer contains significant changes  इससे इसके पूर्ववर्ती , सेटअप  API .
New features include a GUI framework and automatic  पीढी of the uninstallation  sequence .
Windows Installer is positioned as an  वैकल्पिक to stand-alone executable installer  frameworks such as older versions of InstallShield and NSIS .
Microsoft encourages third parties to use Windows Installer as the basis for  संस्थापना frameworks , so कि वे synchronize correctly साथ अन्य installers और रखना the आतंरिक  database of installed products consistent .
Important  सुविधाएँ ऐसे as rollback और versioning  depend on a consistent internal database for reliable operation .
furthermore , खिड़कियाँ installer facilitates  the principle of least privilege by performing software installations by proxy for unprivileged users .
Four Loko is a line of alcoholic beverages ,  originally marketed as उर्जा पेय , बेची by phusion  Projects of Chicago , Illinois .
Phusion operates as  पेय चार brewing  Company .
Four Loko , the company 's most  लोकप्रिय पेय , debuted in the संयुक्त राज्य  market in 2005 .
It is now  बेची in 48 राज्य , और in कनाडा ,  The Bahamas , Bolivia , Honduras , and Europe .
The  नाम `` चार '' is निकला इससे  the original energy drink 's four main ingredients : alcohol , caffeine , taurine , and guarana .
Four branded products have been the object of legal , ethical , and health concerns related to the  कम्पनी allegedly विपणन उन्हें to the underaged  and the purported danger of combining alcohol and caffeine .
After the beverage was banned in several states , a product reintroduction  in दिसम्बर 2010 removed कैफीन , taurine , और guarana as संघटक , और the malt पेय is no  longer marketed as an energy drink .
The neck of a guitar showing the nut  ( in the पृष्ठभूमि , coloured श्वेत ) और पहला  four metal frets .
A fret is a  उठाया तत्व on the  neck of a stringed instrument .
frets प्रायः extend  across the full width of the neck .
On most modern western  fretted यंत्र  , frets are metal strips inserted into the fingerboard .
On some historical instruments and non-European  यंत्र , frets हैं बना of टुकड़े  of string tied around the neck .
Frets divide the neck into  फिक्स्ड खण्ड at intervals सम्बन्धित to a musical  framework .
On  यंत्र ऐसे as guitars , प्रत्येक fret represents  one semitone in the standard western system where one octave is divided into twelve semitones .
Fret is often  प्रयुक्त as a क्रिया , अर्थ  simply `` to press down the string behind a fret . ''
fretting प्रायः refers to the frets  and/or their system of placement .
वहीँ थी खपत of दारू  both during and after prohibition .
The 18th Amendment prohibited the production  , वितरण और बिक्री of alcoholic पेय in the संयुक्त राज्य और थी widely समर्थित  by the American public when it went into effect in 1920 .
The temperance movement had popularized the belief that alcohol was the major cause of most personal and  सोशल समस्याएं और निषेध थी देखी as the समाधान to the  nation 's poverty , crime , violence , and other ills .
Upon ratification of the amendment , the famous  इंजीलवादी बिली संडे कहा कि ``  The slums will soon be only a memory .
We will  फेरे हमारी जेलों into  factories and our jails into storehouses and corncribs . ''
(  compare christianity  and alcohol . )
Since alcohol was to be banned and since it was seen as the cause of most , if not all ,  अपराधों , कुछ समुदायों बेची उनके  jails .
The nation was highly optimistic and the leading prohibitionist in the United States Congress  confidently asserted कि `` वहीँ is as much मौका of repealing the eighteenth amendment as वहीँ is लिये  a hummingbird to fly to the planet Mars with the Washington Monument tied to its tail.”
The metre ( meter in American English ) , ( SI unit  प्रतीक : m ; si आयाम  symbol : L ) , is the fundamental unit of length in the International System of Units ( SI ) .
Originally intended to be one ten-millionth of the distance from the  धरती 's equator to the उत्तर ध्रुव ( at समुद्र स्तर ) , इसके परिभाषा  has been periodically refined to reflect growing knowledge of metrology .
Since 1983 , it has  महरूम पारिभाषित as `` the लंबाई  of the path travelled by light in vacuum during a time interval of 1/299,792,458 of a second . ''
Geologists exploring Jurassic sedimentary rocks in Makhtesh  gadol , negev मरुस्थल  , Israel
geologists explaining  the importance of volcanic ash layers to students on field in Iceland
A geologist is a scientist who studies the solid and liquid  पदार्थ कि constitutes the धरती as खूब as the  processes and history that has shaped it .
Geologists  प्रायः engage in अध्ययन  geology .
Geologists , studying more of an  लागू विज्ञान than a सैद्धांतिक एक , जरूर  approach Geology using physics , chemistry and biology as well as other sciences .
Geologists , compared to scientists engaged in  अन्य फ़ील्ड , हैं generally अधिक उजागर to the बाहरी than रहकर  in laboratories ; although some geologists prefer to perform most of their studies in the lab .
Geologists are engaged in exploration for mining  कंपनियाँ in ढूंढें  of metals , oils , and other Earth resources .
They are also in the  forefront of प्राकृतिक जोखिमों और आपदाओं चेतावनी और शमन , अध्ययन भूकंप , volcanic कार्यकलाप , tsunamis , मौसम तूफ़ान  , and the like ; their studies are used to warn the general public of the occurrence of these events .
Currently , geologists  हैं भी सगाई in the चर्चा of जलवायु बदलें , as वे पढ़ाई  the history and evidence for this Earth process .
Below is a comprehensive drill and tap  आकार चार्ट लिये सब drills , इम्पीरियल  and metric , and taps up to 36.5 mm .
Modern vacuum  tubes , ज़्यादातर miniature  style
In electronics , a  वैक्यूम ट्यूब , इलेक्ट्रॉन ट्यूब ( in उत्तर अमेरिका ) , तापायनिक वाल्व , ट्यूब , or वाल्व  is a device controlling electric current through a vacuum in a sealed container .
The container is often thin  पारदर्शी कांच in a roughly  cylindrical shape .
The simplest vacuum  ट्यूब , the डायोड , is essentially  an incandescent light bulb with an added electrode inside .
When  the बल्ब 's फिलामेंट is heated white-hot , electrons हैं  `` boiled '' off its surface and into the vacuum inside the bulb .
If the electrode -- called a `` plate '' or `` anode '' -- is made more  धनात्मक than the hot फिलामेंट , a सीधा वर्तमान बहती  through the vacuum to the electrode ( a demonstration of the Edison effect ) .
As the current only flows in one  दिशा , it makes it संभावित to बदलें  an alternating current applied to the filament to direct current .
The introduction of a third electrode , a grid  between the फिलामेंट और the थाली  , yields another function .
A voltage applied  to the ग्रिड नियंत्रण  the current flowing from the filament to the plate .
Thus , it allows the device to be used as an  इलेक्ट्रॉनिक प्रवर्धक .
Vacuum tubes are thus used  लिये rectification , प्रवर्धन , switching  , or similar processing or creation of electrical signals .
The vast majority of modern day tubes consist of a sealed container  साथ a वैक्यूम अंदर , और essentially rely on तापायनिक उत्सर्जन of electrons  from a hot filament or a cathode heated by the filament .
Some exceptions to this are dealt with in the  खण्ड परिचय gas-filled  tubes below .
Vacuum tubes were critical to the development of electronic technology , which drove the expansion and commercialization of radio broadcasting , television , radar ,  ध्वनि reinforcement , ध्वनि रिकॉर्डिंग और जनन , विशाल टेलीफोन संजाल  , analog and digital computers , and industrial process control .
Although some applications had counterparts using earlier technologies such as the  चिंगारी गैप ट्रांसमीटर or mechanical कंप्यूटर , it थी the आविष्कार of the वैक्यूम ट्यूब साथ तीन  electrodes ( called a triode ) and its capability of electronic amplification that made these technologies widespread and practical .
In most applications , solid-state devices such as  transistors और अन्य सेमीकंडक्टर  devices have replaced tubes .
Solid-state devices last longer and are smaller , more  कुशल , अधिक विश्वसनीय , और सस्ता than tubes  .
Tubes can be fragile , sometimes generate significant unwanted heat , and can take many seconds—many minutes in critical applications—after  powering on to गरम to a तापमान जहाँ वे  perform within operational tolerance .
However , tubes still find uses where solid-state devices have not been developed , are impractical , or where a tube has superior performance , as with some devices in  पेशेवर ऑडियो और high-power रेडियो ट्रांसमीटरों .
Tubes are  स्टिल उत्पादित लिये  such applications .
Tubes are less likely than semiconductor devices to be destroyed  by the इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक पल्स उत्पादित by नाभिकीय विस्फोट और geomagnetic  storms produced by giant solar flares .
Skittles is a brand of  fruit-flavoured मिठाई , फिलहाल उत्पादित और marketed by the wm .  Wrigley Jr. Company , a division of Mars , Inc .
They have hard  शुगर शेल जिससे carry  the letter S .
The inside is mainly  शुगर , मकई सिरप , और hydrogenated ताड़ कर्नेल आयल साथ साथ फल रस  , citric acid , and natural and artificial flavours .
The confectionery has been sold in a variety of flavour  संग्रहण , ऐसे as तीव्र और जंगली बेरी  .
Sir Winston Leonard Spencer-Churchill  , ( 30 नवम्बर 1874 – 24 जनवरी 1965 ) थी a अंग्रेजों राजनेता  who was the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom from 1940 to 1945 and again from 1951 to 1955 .
Widely regarded as  एक of the महानतम wartime नेताओ of the 20th सदी ,  Churchill was also an officer in the British Army , a historian , a writer , and an artist .
He is the only British Prime Minister in history to have received the Nobel  पुरस्कार in साहित्य , और थी भी the पहला व्यक्ति to be बना an मानद नागरिक of the संयुक्त राज्य  .
Churchill was born into an  वैभवशाली परिवार as the पोता  of the 7th Duke of Marlborough .
His father ,  रब randolph चर्चिल , थी a charismatic राजनेता जो परोसा as  Chancellor of the Exchequer ; his mother , Jennie Jerome , was an American socialite .
As a young army officer , he saw action in British  इण्डिया , the सूडान , और the  Second Boer War .
He gained fame as a war correspondent and wrote books about  उसके अभियान  .
At the forefront of  राजनीती लिये पचास  years , he held many political and cabinet positions .
Before the First World War , he served as President of the Board of Trade , Home Secretary , and First Lord of the Admiralty  as भाग of the asquith उदार  government .
During the war , he continued as First Lord of the Admiralty until the disastrous Gallipoli Campaign caused his departure  इससे सरकारी  .
He then briefly resumed active army service on the  पश्चिमी सामने  as commander of the 6th Battalion of the Royal Scots Fusiliers .
He returned to government as Minister of  munitions , सचिव of राज्य लिये युद्ध , और सचिव  of State for Air .
After  the युद्ध , चर्चिल परोसा as चांसलर of the exchequer in the रूढ़िवादी ( baldwin ) सरकारी of 1924–29 , controversially returning  the pound sterling in 1925 to the gold standard at its pre-war parity , a move widely seen as creating deflationary pressure on the UK economy .
Also controversial was his  विपक्ष to increased घर नियम लिये इण्डिया और उसके प्रतिरोध  to the 1936 abdication of Edward VIII .
Out of office and politically `` in the wilderness '' during the 1930s , Churchill took the  सीसे in चेतावनी परिचय नाजी जर्मनी और in campaigning  for rearmament .
On the outbreak  of the दूसरी संसार युद्ध , he थी  again appointed First Lord of the Admiralty .
Following the resignation of  नेविली चेम्बरलेन on 10 may  1940 , Churchill became Prime Minister .
His steadfast refusal to consider  शिकस्त , आत्मसमर्पण , or a सुलह सलाम helped  inspire British resistance , especially during the difficult early days of the War when Britain stood alone among European countries in its active opposition to Adolf Hitler .
Churchill was particularly noted for his speeches  और रेडियो प्रसारण , जिससे helped inspire the अंग्रेजों  people .
He led  ब्रिटेन as प्रधान मंत्री  until victory over Nazi Germany had been secured .
After the Conservative Party lost the 1945 election  , he became नेता of the विपक्ष to the श्रमिक (  Attlee ) government .
After  जीतना the 1951 चुनाव , he again  became Prime Minister , before retiring in 1955 .
Upon his death , Elizabeth II granted him the honour of a state funeral , which saw one of  the largest सभाओं of संसार कूटनीतिज्ञों in  history .
Named the Greatest Briton of all time in a 2002 poll , Churchill is widely regarded as  होने among the सबसे  influential people in British history .
Ruby Gloom is  an एनिमेटेड  television show based on an apparel franchise .
The show is  उत्पादित by nelvana और began airing  on October 13 , 2006 in Canada on the network YTV .
It stars the voices of  सारा gadon , एमिली  Hampshire , and Peter Keleghan .
The Ford Focus  is a कॉम्पैक्ट car ( c-segment in यूरोपीय )  manufactured by the Ford Motor Company since 1998 .
Ford began  बिक्री of the फ़ोकस to यूरोपीय  in July 1998 and in North America during 1999 for the 2000 model year .
In Europe ,  दक्षिण अमेरिका , उत्तर अमेरिका और दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी  , the Focus replaced the various versions of the Ford Escort sold in those markets .
In Asia and  australasia , it replaced  the Ford Laser .
As of the first half of  2012 , the फ़ोकस surpassed the टोयोटा कोरोला to become  the world 's best selling automobile nameplate .
The Focus has been considered  एक of the 50 महानतम गाड़ियाँ of the पास्ट पचास सालो  by British magazine CAR .
An agar  थाली -- an उदाहरण of a बैक्टीरियल  growth medium .
Specifically , it is a streak  थाली ; the नारंगी लाइनों और dots  are formed by bacterial colonies .
A growth medium or culture medium is a  द्रव or gel designed to support the विकास of microorganisms  or cells , or small plants like the moss Physcomitrella patens .
There are different types of media for growing  अलग प्रकार of कोशिकाएं  .
There are two major types of growth media : those used for cell culture , which use  विशिष्ट कोशिका प्रकार निकला इससे पौधे or पशु , और microbiological संस्कृति , जिससे हैं प्रयुक्त लिये growing microorganisms  , such as bacteria or yeast .
The most common growth media for microorganisms are nutrient broths and agar plates ;  specialized मीडिया हैं sometimes जरूरी  for microorganism and cell culture growth .
कुछ जीवों , termed सुकुमार जीवों , आवश्यकता specialized  environments due to complex nutritional requirements .
Viruses , for example ,  हैं obligate intracellular  parasites and require a growth medium containing living cells .
A talent agent , or booking agent , is a person who finds jobs for actors , authors , film directors ,  संगीतकारों , मॉडल , निर्माता , पेशेवर एथलीट , लेखक और अन्य  people in various entertainment businesses .
An  एजेंट भी defends , supports  and promotes the interest of his/her clients .
Agents  can नहीं उपज उनके अपना shows  due to conflict of interest .
A talent agent must be  परिचित साथ उनके क्लाइंट  .
An agent has to know what kind of work the client  can और can नहीं do in अनुक्रम to मैच उन्हें साथ  various jobs .
Having an agent is not required , but  करता सहायता  the artist in getting jobs .
In many cases casting directors , or other businesses , go to talent agencies  to ढूँढें कलाकारों वे हैं looking  for .
The agent is paid a percentage of the star 's earnings  ( typically 10 % ) .
Agents  sometimes होगा be referred to as  `` 10 percenters . ''
There  हैं अलग regulations कि govern अलग प्रकार of एजेंटों कि हैं  established by artist 's unions and the legal jurisdiction in which the agent operates .
There are also  पेशेवर संगठन  that license talent agencies .
Since the decline in viewership in theaters , from the 1950s to 1960s , this caused a monumental shift in how studios would produce  films और यूँ reducing the लागत of विशेष और महंगी अभिनेताओं  .
Actors and actresses were working for the studios but were not owned by one major studio entity and so were able  to कार्य on भीतर उनके समय और साथ अन्य studios  .
Because of this , agents were now seen  as a necessity बजाय of an विकल्प  .
Agents now became third parties  कि negotiated between studios  and clients , this making their services imperative between each party .
Since talent agencies are working with lucrative contracts , all talent agencies must be licensed under special sections of the  कैलिफ़ोर्निया मजदूर कोड , जिससे काल्स an एजेंट a `` व्यक्ति or निगम जो engages in the occupation of  procuring , offering , promising , or attempting to procure employment for artist or artists . ''
Mars has two known  moons , phobos  and Deimos , which are thought to be captured asteroids .
Both  satellites यहूद खोजा in 1877  by Asaph Hall and are named after the characters Phobos ( panic/fear ) and Deimos ( terror/dread ) who , in Greek mythology , accompanied their father Ares , god of war , into battle .
Ares was known as  मंगल to the romans  .
It is  संभावित कि मंगल may have moons छोटी than 50 - 100  meters and a dust ring between Phobos and Deimos may be present but none have been discovered .
In law enforcement parlance , the term murder book  refers to the मामला संचिका of a हत्या  investigation .
Typically , murder books include crime scene photographs and sketches ,  पोस्टमार्टम और forensic रिपोर्ट्स , transcripts of जांचकर्ताओं  ' notes and witness interviews .
The murder book encapsulates the complete paper trail of a murder investigation  , इससे the समय the हत्या is पहला reported through  the arrest of a suspect .
Law enforcement  एजेंसियों typically गार्ड हत्या किताबे carefully , और it is असामान्य लिये नागरिकों to be  given unfettered access to these kinds of records , especially for unsolved cases .
a melon  baller
Melon balls are balls of melon made using a melon baller that varies from around 1 centimeter to 3 centimeters  ( परिचय 3/8 इंच  to 1 inch ) .
वे हैं generally  used in fruit salad .
A KSA , or Knowledge , Skills , and Abilities , is a series of  कथा कथन कि हैं जरूरी जब applying to  United States Federal government job openings .
KSAs are used to determine , along with resumes , who the  बेहतरीन आवेदकों हैं जब अनेक उम्मीदवार  qualify for a job .
The knowledge  , कौशल और abilities ( ksas ) जरुरी लिये the कामयाब प्रदर्शन  of a position are contained on each job vacancy announcement .
In 2009 the Office of Personal Management asked federal  एजेंसियों to रोकें requiring जॉब आवेदकों to भरण आउट the questionnaires  , to be phased out within a year .
KSAs are brief and focused essays about one 's career and educational background  कि presumably qualify एक to perform the कर्तव्य of the स्थिति  being applied for .
A knowledge , skills , and abilities ( KSA ) is a concise  निबन्ध परिचय एक 's हुनर और विशेषज्ञता और सम्बन्धित अनुभवों ( कार्य , शिक्षा , स्वयंसेवी  ) and accomplishments .
A series of KSA statements are usually  जरूरी जब applying लिये सबसे संघीय सरकारी  and some state and city government jobs .
KSAs are used as a yardstick to assess the capabilities of  a prospective आवेदक in शर्तें of संभावित क्षमता to perform  the duties of the job .
Most government hiring  officials dekh लिये a छोटी , कुरकुरे और साफ ksa कि emphasizes परिणाम  or accomplishments obtained in previous work .
KSA statements are also  ज्ञात as मूल्यांकन कारकों  .
Other  एजेंसियों sometimes कॉल उन्हें `` दरजा कारकों '' , `` विशेषता रैंकिंग कारकों '' , `` ज्ञान , abilities  , skills and Other Characteristics '' , or `` Job Elements '' .
The name can be just a name but often it influences  सामग्री और लंबाई of the  essay .
Every agency has its own  regulations लकिन सबसे of the समय the प्रत्येक ksa फ़ैक्टर  should be 1/2 to 11⁄2 pages long .
The below definitions are  पारिभाषित by the u.S. दफ्तर  of Personnel Management :
Knowledge , Skills , and Abilities ( KSAs ) - The attributes required to perform a job and are  generally demonstrated through qualifying सेवा  , education , or training .
ज्ञान - is a देह of सूचना लागू  directly to the performance of a function .
Skill - Is an  observable competence to  perform a learned psychomotor act .
Ability - Is competence to perform an observable behavior or  a बर्ताव कि परिणाम  in an observable product .
The scoring of KSA essays is based  on a स्केल of इससे  one to 100 .
Job applicants must score  ऊपर 70 to be माना  for the position .
High scores are derived through answering the KSA question as specifically as possible , providing examples from previous employment  or प्रशिक्षण कि  clearly demonstrate you meet the qualifications .
When  applying to संघीय सरकारी स्थितियाँ , a संघीय  Resume is usually required in addition to KSA statements .
सही
Whole grains are  खाद्यान्न दाने कि contain खाद्यान्न रोगाणु , भ्रूणपोष , और चोकर , in कंट्रास्ट to परिष्कृत  grains , which retain only the endosperm .
आम पूरे  grains include:
गेहूं
oat
Barley - Hulled and Dehulled  ( नहीं पर्ल )
मक्का
भूरा राइस
farro
spelt
emmer
einkorn
kamut
rye
बाजरा
quinoa
चौलाई
triticale
teff
sprouted  Grains
buckwheat
Common whole grain  उत्पाद include:
पूरे गेहूं  flour
पूरे गेहूं  Bread
पूरे गेहूं  Pasta
Rolled  जई or oat  groats
triticale  flour
पॉपकॉर्न
Teff  आटा
Common refined  non-whole अनाज उत्पाद  include:
Love Always is the debut album of American R & B duo K-Ci & JoJo ,  released on जून 17 , 1997 , by mca  Records .
It was recorded at various studios in New York and  the लॉस एंजिल्स क्षेत्रफल in 1996  and 1997 .
It was produced  by जोजो और अनेक अन्य , सहित devante  Swing , James Mtume , and Jeff Redd .
The duo were originally a part  of jodeci पहले इस एल्बम .
The album peaked at sixth on the US Billboard 200  और भी appeared on अंतरराष्ट्रीय चार्ट  .
The single `` All My Life `` charted number one in multiple countries , and all four of the album 's singles peaked above the top 25  in the us hot r & b/hip-hop गीतों और the  New Zealand Top 40 Singles .
Love Always was received favorably by critics , who  praised the भाइयो ' गायन  ability and the production .
The album has been certified three times  प्लेटिनम by the रिकॉर्डिंग उद्योग संघ of अमेरिका ( riaa ) और  gold by Music Canada and IFPI Sweden .
As of June 1999 it  था बेची 2.9 लाख नक़ल  in the United States .
A variable-rate mortgage , adjustable-rate mortgage ( ARM ) , or tracker mortgage  is a बंधक ऋण साथ the  interest rate on the note periodically adjusted based on an index which reflects the cost to the lender of borrowing on the credit markets .
The loan may be  offered at the lender  's standard variable rate/ base rate .
There may be a direct and  legally-defined कड़ी to the underlying अनुक्रमणिका , लकिन जहाँ  the lender offers no specific link to the underlying market or index the rate can be changed at the lender 's discretion .
The term ``  variable-rate बंधक '' is सबसे आम बाहर the संयुक्त राज्य , whilst in the संयुक्त राज्य , `` adjustable-rate  mortgage '' is most common , and implies a mortgage regulated by the Federal government , with caps on charges .
In many countries , adjustable rate mortgages are the  norm , और in ऐसे स्थान , may बस be referred  to as mortgages .
Among the most common indices are the rates on  1-year constant-maturity राजकोष ( cmt  ) securities , the Cost of Funds Index ( COFI ) , and the London Interbank Offered Rate ( LIBOR ) .
A few lenders  उपयोग उनके अपना लागत of निधि  as an index , rather than using other indices .
इस is किया to ensure a स्थिर हाशिया लिये the  lender , whose own cost of funding will usually be related to the index .
Consequently , payments made by the borrower  may बदलें over समय साथ the बदलना ब्याज रेट (  alternatively , the term of the loan may change ) .
This is distinct from the graduated payment mortgage , which  offers बदलना भुगतान amounts  but a fixed interest rate .
Other forms of mortgage loan include the interest  तभी बंधक , the फिक्स्ड रेट बंधक , the ऋणात्मक  amortization mortgage , and the balloon payment mortgage .
समायोज्य दरों ट्रांसफ़र भाग of the  interest rate risk from the lender to the borrower .
They can be used where unpredictable interest rates make fixed  रेट लोन मुश्किल to obtain  .
The borrower benefits if the interest  रेट जलप्रपात लकिन loses if the ब्याज  rate increases .
The borrower  लाभ इससे घटाया मार्जिन to the underlying लागत  of borrowing compared to fixed or capped rate mortgages .
The assassination of Robert Francis `` Bobby '' Kennedy , a United States Senator  और bhai of assassinated अध्यक्ष जॉन fitzgerald `` जोकर '' कैनेडी , took प्लेस shortly बाद मध्यरात्रि on जून  5 , 1968 , in Los Angeles , California , during the campaign season for the United States Presidential election , 1968 .
After winning the California and South Dakota primary elections for the Democratic nomination for President of the United States , Kennedy was shot as he walked  through the रसोईघर of the दूत होटल और died in the शुभ सामरी  Hospital twenty-six hours later .
Sirhan Sirhan , a 24-year-old Palestinian / Jordanian  अप्रवासी , थी convicted of कैनेडी 's हत्या और is सेवारत a  life sentence for the crime .
Sirhan  's वकील have released कथन  claiming evidence that he was framed .
The shooting was  अंकित on ऑडियो टेप by a freelance समाचारपत्र  reporter , and the aftermath was captured on film .
Kennedy 's body lay in repose at St. Patrick 's Cathedral in  नई यॉर्क लिये दो दिनों पहले a अंत्येष्टि द्रव्यमान  was held on June 8 .
His body was interred near his  bhai जॉन at आर्लिंगटन  National Cemetery .
His  मौत prompted the सुरक्षा of अध्यक्षीय  candidates by the United States Secret Service .
Hubert Humphrey went on to win the Democratic nomination  लिये the प्रेसिडेंसी , लकिन ultimately narrowly  lost the election to Richard Nixon .
As with his  bhai जोकर 's मौत , bobby 's हत्या  and the circumstances surrounding it have spawned a variety of conspiracy theories .
As of 2013 Kennedy  remains एक of तभी दो बैठे संयुक्त राज्य सीनेटरों  to be assassinated ( the other being Huey Long ) .
The Modern Age of Comic Books is an informal name for the period in the history of  मुख्यधारा अमरीकी कॉमिक किताबे generally माना to पिछला इससे  the mid-1980s until present day .
In this period , comic book characters generally became darker and more psychologically complex , creators became  better-known और क्रियाशील in बदलना the उद्योग , स्वतंत्र कॉमिक्स flourished , और larger प्रकाशन घरों became  more commercialized .
An  वैकल्पिक नाम लिये इस काल is the अंधेरा आयु of  Comic Books , due to the popularity and artistic influence of grim titles , such as and Watchmen .
When Harry Met Sally ... is a 1989 American  रोमांटिक कॉमेडी फिल्मी लिखा by नोरा ephron  and directed by Rob Reiner .
It stars Billy Crystal as Harry and  मेग रयान as सैली  .
The story follows the title characters from the time they meet just before sharing a  cross-country ड्राइव , through बारह सालो or so of मौका मुठभेड़ों  in New York City .
The film raises the question `` Can men and women ever just be friends ? '' and advances many ideas about relationships  कि became household अवधारणाओं  , such as those of the `` '' girlfriend and the `` transitional person '' .
The  origins of the फिल्मी आए इससे reiner 's  return to single life after a divorce .
An interview Ephron conducted with Reiner  provided the आधार  for Harry .
Sally  थी आधारित on ephron और  some of her friends .
Crystal came on  फलक और बना उसके अपना योगदान to the  screenplay , making Harry funnier .
Ephron  supplied the ढांचा of the फिल्मी साथ much of the संवाद  based on the real-life friendship between Reiner and Crystal .
The soundtrack consists of standards performed by Harry Connick , Jr. ,  साथ a बिग बैंड और ऑर्केस्ट्रा arranged by  Marc Shaiman .
Connick won his  पहला ग्रैमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन जैज़ पुरूष  Vocal Performance .
Columbia Pictures released the film using the `` platform '' technique , which  शामिल खोलने it in a few चुनें शहरों , letting धनात्मक शब्द of मुँह generate ब्याज  , and then gradually expanding distribution over subsequent weeks .
When Harry Met Sally ... grossed a  कुल of us $ 92 .8 लाख  in North America .
Ephron received a British Academy Film Award , an Oscar nomination , and a Writers Guild of  अमेरिका पुरस्कार नामांकन  for her screenplay .
The film is ranked 23rd on AFI 's 100 Years ... 100 Laughs list of the top comedy films in American  सिनेमा और क्रमांक 60 on ब्रावो  's `` 100 Funniest Movies '' .
In early 2004 , the film was  adapted लिये the स्टेज in  a production starring Luke Perry and Alyson Hannigan .
200px
Hamburger Helper is a line of packaged food products primarily consisting  of boxed पास्ता bundled साथ a पैकेट  or packets of powdered sauce or seasonings .
The contents of each box  हैं संयुक्त साथ browned मैदान बीफ  , water and milk to create a complete dish .
The product line also features products with other  starches ऐसे as राइस or आलू बजाय of पास्ता  .
it is बना  by General Mills .
Although the classic boxed Hamburger Helper products only supply the starch item and the sauce packets , some varieties  of the उत्पाद शामिल  ground beef .
These include  a frozen खाना लकीर , जिससे सुविधाएँ कुछ of the ब्रांड 's क्लासिक किस्में in a पूरा  meal kit form , with frozen ground beef and frozen sauce packaged separately from the noodles in the same bag .
वहीँ is भी an `` तत्काल '' संस्करण of हैमबर्गर हेल्पर containing  dehydrated meat , noodles and seasonings in a small pouch , requiring only water to be added .
The Hamburger Helper mascot is the `` Helping Hand '' , an anthropomorphic animated , four fingered left-hand  दस्ताने , जिससे appears in the  product 's television commercials and on the packages .
Ceres as  देखी साथ the हबल  Space Telescope .
It is the only dwarf  ग्रह in the  asteroid belt .
प्लूटो in सन्निकट सच्चा  colour based on Hubble Space Telescope albedo data
Haumea with its moons , Hiʻiaka and  namaka ( कलाकार 's धारणा  )
माकेमाके ( कलाकार  's conception )
Eris and its moon  dysnomia as देखी साथ the  Hubble Space Telescope
A dwarf planet is a planetary-mass object that is neither a  ग्रह nor  a satellite .
More explicitly , the International Astronomical Union ( IAU ) defines a dwarf planet as a  celestial देह in सीधा कक्षा of the सूर्य कि is विशाल पर्याप्त लिये इसके आकार to be नियंत्रित  by gravitation , but that unlike a planet has not cleared its orbital region of other objects .
The term dwarf planet was adopted in 2006 as part of a three-way  categorization of लाशें orbiting the सूर्य , brought परिचय by an बढ़ाएँ in discoveries of trans-neptunian  objects that rivaled Pluto in size , and finally precipitated by the discovery of an even more massive object , Eris .
This classification states that bodies large enough to have cleared the  neighbourhood of उनके कक्षा हैं पारिभाषित as ग्रह , जबकि those कि हैं नहीं विशाल पर्याप्त to be rounded by उनके अपना गम्भीरता  are defined as small Solar System bodies .
बौना ग्रह  come in between .
The exclusion of dwarf planets from the roster of planets by the IAU has been both praised and criticized ; it was  कहा to be the `` सही निर्णय '' by माइक भूरा , जो खोजा और अन्य नई बौना ग्रह , लकिन  has been rejected by Alan Stern , who had coined the term dwarf planet in 1990 .
The IAU currently recognizes five dwarf  ग्रह in the सौर प्रणाली  : , Pluto , , , and .
However , only two of these bodies , Ceres  और प्लूटो , have महरूम observed in पर्याप्त विवरण  to demonstrate that they fit the definition .
Eris has been  स्वीकृत as a बौना ग्रह  because it is more massive than Pluto .
The IAU subsequently decided that unnamed  trans-neptunian वस्तुएँ साथ an निरपेक्ष परिमाण उज्जवल than +1 ( और hence a व्यास of ≥838 km assuming a  geometric albedo of ≤1 ) are to be named under the assumption that they are dwarf planets .
The only two such objects known at the time , Makemake and Haumea , went through this naming procedure and  यहूद घोषित  to be dwarf planets .
It is suspected that  another सौ or so ज्ञात वस्तुएँ  in the Solar System are dwarf planets .
Estimates are that up to 200 dwarf planets may be found when the  संपूर्ण प्रदेश ज्ञात as the kuiper बेल्ट is छान , और कि the क्रमांक may exceed 10,000 जब वस्तुएँ बिखरे  outside the Kuiper belt are considered .
Individual astronomers recognize several of these , and in August  2011 माइक भूरा प्रकाशित a सूची of 390 प्रत्याशी  objects , ranging from `` nearly certain '' to `` possible '' dwarf planets . '
Brown identifies nine known objects – the five accepted by the  iau प्लस , , , और – as `` वस्तुतः निश्चित '' , साथ  another two dozen highly likely , and there are probably a hundred or so such objects in total .
The classification of bodies in other planetary systems with  the विशेषताएँ of बौना ग्रह  has not been addressed .
A debit card ( also known as a bank card or check card ) is a plastic payment card that  provides the cardholder इलेक्ट्रॉनिक अभिगम to उसके or उसके बैंको खाता  ( s ) at a financial institution .
Some cards have a stored  मान साथ जिससे a भुगतान is बना ,  while most relay a message to the cardholder 's bank to withdraw funds from a payee 's designated bank account .
The card ,  जहाँ स्वीकृत  , can be used instead of cash when making purchases .
In some cases , the primary account number is assigned exclusively for use  on the अंतरजाल और वहीँ is no शारीरिक  card .
In many countries , the use of debit cards has become so widespread that their volume has overtaken or entirely  replaced cheques और , in कुछ उदाहरण ,  cash transactions .
The development of debit cards  , नापसंद क्रेडिट ताश और चार्ज ताश , रै generally महरूम देश विशिष्ट resulting  in a number of different systems around the world , which were often incompatible .
चूंकि the mid-2000s , a क्रमांक  of initiatives have allowed debit cards issued in one country to be used in other countries and allowed their use for internet and phone purchases .
Unlike credit and charge cards , payments using a debit card are immediately transferred from the cardholder 's  designated बैंको खाता , बजाय of उन्हें paying the धन वापस  at a later date .
Debit cards usually also allow for instant  वापसी of नकदी , एक्टिंग as the  ATM card for withdrawing cash .
Merchants may also offer cashback  सुविधाएं to ग्राहक , जहाँ  a customer can withdraw cash along with their purchase .
Francois Henri `` Jack '' LaLanne ( September 26 , 1914 - January 23 , 2011 ) was an American fitness , exercise , and nutritional expert and motivational speaker who is sometimes called ``  the गॉडफादर of फ़िटनेस '' और the `` पहला फ़िटनेस सुपरहीरो . ''
He described himself as being a `` sugarholic '' and  a `` जंक खाना junkie '' जबतक he थी  15 .
He also had behavioral problems , but `` turned his life around '' after listening to a public lecture by Paul  ब्रैग , a well-known पोषण स्पीकर .
During his career ,  he आए to मानना कि the देश 's overall स्वास्थ्य depended on the स्वास्थ्य of इसके  population , writing that `` physical culture and nutrition — is the salvation of America . ''
Decades before health  और फ़िटनेस began होने प्रचारित by हस्तियाँ जैसे जेन फोंडा और रिचर्ड सीमन्स ,  LaLanne was already widely recognized for publicly preaching the health benefits of regular exercise and a good diet .
He  प्रकाशित numerous किताबे on  fitness and hosted a fitness television show between 1953 and 1985 .
As early as 1936 , at age 21 , he opened one of the nation 's first fitness gyms in Oakland ,  कैलिफ़ोर्निया , जिससे became a प्रोटोटाइप लिये दर्जनों of समान gyms using उसके नाम .
One of his 1950s television exercise programs was aimed toward women ,  जिसको he भी प्रोत्साहित to जुड़ें उसके स्वास्थ्य क्लब  .
He invented a number of exercise machines ,  सहित leg-extension और चरखी  devices .
Besides producing his own series of  वीडियो , he coached the बुजुर्ग और निष्क्रिय नहीं to forgo कसरत , believing  it would enable them to enhance their strength .
LaLanne also gained recognition for his success as a bodybuilder , as well as for his prodigious feats of  शक्ति  .
Arnold Schwarzenegger once stated , `` That  जोकर lalanne 's an एनिमल ! , '' बाद lalanne , at 54 , ताल a 21-year-old  Schwarzenegger `` badly '' in an informal contest .
On  the अवसर of lalanne 's मौत , श्वार्ज़नेगर credited lalanne  for being `` an apostle for fitness '' by inspiring `` billions all over the world to live healthier lives , '' and , as governor of California , had earlier placed him on his Governor 's Council on Physical Fitness .
Steve Reeves credited LaLanne as his  प्रेरणा to निर्माण उसके muscular  physique while keeping a slim waist .
He was  inducted to the कैलिफ़ोर्निया हॉल of कीर्ति  and has a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame .
Air forces of  सबसे of the देशों  use system similar to Armies .
However , the RAF and the air forces of many Commonwealth countries , or those formerly under a British influence , use a different set of ranks loosely based on naval equivalents ; Lieutenant , Commander , Captain and Commodore are prefixed for air force  उपयोग साथ उड़ान , wing , समूह और एयर , क्रमशः ( the पहला तीन होने the इकाई कि वे प्रयुक्त  to command ) .
Penélope Cruz Sánchez ( ; born April 28 ,  1974 ) is a स्पेनी अभिनेत्री  .
Signed by an agent at age 15 , she made her  एक्टिंग डेब्यू at 16 on टेलीविज़न और उसके विशेषता फिल्मी डेब्यू  the following year in Jamón , jamón ( 1992 ) , to critical acclaim .
Her subsequent roles in the 1990s and 2000s included  खोलें अपना आँखें ( 1997  ) , The Hi-Lo Country ( 1999 ) , The Girl of Your Dreams ( 2000 ) and Woman on Top ( 2000 ) .
Cruz achieved recognition for her lead  भूमिकाएँ in the 2001 films  Vanilla Sky and Blow .
She has since built a successful  करियर , appearing in films इससे a चौड़ी दायरा of जाति , सहित the कॉमेडी waking up in रेनो ( 2002 ) , the  thriller Gothika ( 2003 ) , the Christmas movie Noel ( 2004 ) , and the action adventure Sahara ( 2005 ) .
She has received critical acclaim for her roles  in volver ( 2006 ) और नौ ( 2009 ) receiving सुनहरी  Globe and Academy Award nominations for each .
She won the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress in 2008  लिये विक्की क्रिस्टीना बार्सिलोना  .
She was the first Spanish  अभिनेत्री in इतिहास to प्राप्त an अकादमी पुरस्कार और the पहला  Spanish actress to receive a star at the Hollywood Walk of Fame .
Cruz has modeled for companies  ऐसे as आम , ralph  Lauren and L'Oréal .
Penélope and  उसके younger सिस्टर  Mónica Cruz have designed items for Mango .
She has donated both her time  और धन to  charities .
Cruz has volunteered in Uganda and India , where she spent one week working for Mother Teresa ; she  दान उसके सैलरी इससे ' to  help fund the late nun 's mission .
A wax sculpture of Cruz  होगा be लगाई in a प्रीमियर स्पॉट in the  Grevin Wax Museum in Paris .
File Explorer , previously known as Windows Explorer , is a file manager application and also a navigation tool  कि is शामिल साथ रिलीज of the microsoft खिड़कियाँ ऑपरेटिंग  system from Windows 95 onwards .
It provides a graphical user interface for  accessing the  file systems .
It is also the component of the operating system  कि presents अनेक उपयोक्ता इंटरफ़ेस वस्तुएं  on the monitor such as the taskbar and desktop .
Controlling the computer is possible without Windows Explorer running ( for  उदाहरण , the संचिका | चलाएं कमांड in कार्य मैनेजर on nt-derived संस्करण of खिड़कियाँ होगा फलन  without it , as will commands typed in a command prompt window ) .
Located in the C : \Windows directory , it is sometimes referred  to as the खिड़कियाँ शेल , explorer.exe  , or simply “Explorer” .
The Care Bears are characters created by American  बधाई in 1981 लिये उपयोग on ग्रीटिंग  cards .
The original artwork for the  ताश थी चित्रित by कलाकार एलेना  Kucharik .
In 1983 , Kenner turned the Care Bears  into plush  teddy bears .
The Care Bears appeared in their own TV specials called The  परवाह bears in the जमीन बगैर जज्बात ( 1983 ) और  The Care Bears Battle the Freeze Machine ( 1984 ) .
They also had their own television series from  1985 to 1988 , in जोड to तीन विशेषता  films : The Care Bears Movie ( 1985 ) , Care Bears Movie II : A New Generation ( 1986 ) , and The Care Bears Adventure in Wonderland ( 1987 ) .
Each Care Bear  आता in a अलग रंग और रै a specialized  insignia on its belly that represents its duty and personality .
इस तमगा थी ज्ञात  as their `` tummy symbol . ''
however , the फिल्म परवाह bears : oopsy करता  It ! renamed them `` belly badges '' .
Adding  to the परवाह भालू परिवार हैं the `` परवाह भालू cousins ''  , which feature a lion , rabbit , penguin , raccoon , and other such animals created in the same style as the teddy bears .
In 2002 , the bears were  reintroduced साथ नई खिलौने  .
Made by Play-Along Toys , the new toys offered features such as  illuminated bellies upon  touch , aerobic bears , and glow-in-the-dark bears .
As part of this comeback , the Bears have appeared in two  computer-animated फिल्मों : परवाह bears : यात्रा to joke-a-lot ( 2004 ) और the  Care Bears ' Big Wish Movie ( 2005 ) .
In  2007 , the मताधिकार मनाये इसके 25th वर्षगांठ  ; another relaunch took place , as well as the release of Care Bears : Oopsy Does It ! .
In mid-2011 , AG announced a revival TV  एनिमेटेड श्रेणी titled `` परवाह  Bears : Welcome to Care-a-Lot `` .
The premiere of the series utilizes  `` 30 सालो  of caring '' .
It premiered  on the हब on जून  2 , 2012 .
As of 2013 ,  परवाह bears merchandise is  still being marketed .
During 2008 and 2009 , Canada 's Cookie Jar Group and France 's  moonscoop समूह attempted to acquire the  franchise from AGC , with no apparent success .
Interstate 70 ( I-70 ) is  an अंतरराज्यीय राजमार्ग in the संयुक्त  States that runs from Interstate 15 near Cove Fort , Utah , to a Park and Ride near Baltimore , Maryland .
It was the  पहला अंतरराज्यीय राजमार्ग  project in the United States .
I-70 approximately  traces the पाथ of u.S. रूट 40 ( और भी  the old National Road ) east of the Rocky Mountains .
West  of the rockies  , the route of I-70 was derived from multiple sources .
I-70 is the fifth longest Interstate  राजमार्ग , बाद i-90 , i-80 , i-40 , और i-10 .
The construction of I-70 in Colorado and Utah is considered an  अभियान्त्रिकी आश्चर्य as the रूट गुजरता through the आइज़नहावर  Tunnel , Glenwood Canyon , and the San Rafael Swell .
The Eisenhower Tunnel is  the उच्चतम पाइंट साथ the अंतरराज्यीय राजमार्ग  system with an elevation of .
The sections of the interstate in Missouri  और कान्सास have रखी अर्जी to be the पहला  interstate in the United States .
Though disputed , the Federal Highway Administration has claimed the section  of i-70 through glenwood canyon , समाप्त in 1992 , थी the पिछला टुकड़ा of the अंतरराज्यीय  Highway system , as originally planned , to open to traffic .
Photo of  1999 कुल  eclipse
As seen from the Earth , a solar eclipse occurs when the Moon passes between the Sun and Earth , and the  चंद्रमा fully or partially ब्लॉक ( `` occults  `` ) the Sun .
इस can happen तभी at नई चंद्रमा , जब  the Sun and the Moon are in conjunction as seen from Earth in an alignment referred to as syzygy .
In a total eclipse , the disk of the Sun is fully  obscured by the चंद्रमा .
In partial and annular  eclipses तभी भाग of the सूर्य is obscured  .
If the Moon were in a perfectly circular orbit , a little closer to the Earth , and in the same orbital plane , there  होता be कुल सौर eclipses प्रत्येक सिंगल  month .
However , the Moon 's orbit is  inclined ( tilted ) at अधिक than 5 डिग्री  to Earth 's orbit around the Sun ( see ecliptic ) so its shadow at new moon usually misses Earth .
Earth 's orbit  is पुकारा the ecliptic प्लेन as the चंद्रमा 's कक्षा  must cross this plane in order for an eclipse ( both solar as well as lunar ) to occur .
In  जोड , the चंद्रमा 's वास्तविक कक्षा is अंडाकार , प्रायः लेने it  far enough away from Earth that its apparent size is not large enough to block the Sun totally .
The orbital planes cross each year at a line of nodes  resulting in at तनिक  two , and up to five , solar eclipses occurring each year ; no more than two of which can be total eclipses .
However , total solar eclipses are rare at any particular  स्थान क्युकी totality exists तभी साथ a सीमित पाथ on  Earth 's surface traced by the Moon 's shadow or umbra .
an ग्रहण is a प्राकृतिक  phenomenon .
nevertheless , in कुछ प्राचीन और आधुनिक संस्कृतियों , सौर eclipses  have been attributed to supernatural causes or regarded as bad omens .
A total solar eclipse can be frightening to people who are unaware of its astronomical  स्पष्टीकरण , as the सूर्य seems to गायब दौरान  the day and the sky darkens in a matter of minutes .
Because  it is खतरनाक to dekh सीधे at the सूर्य , observers चाहिए उपयोग खास  eye protection or indirect viewing techniques when viewing a partial eclipse , or the partial phases of a total eclipse .
It is safe to view the total phase of a total solar  ग्रहण साथ the unaided नजर और बगैर सुरक्षा  , however .
लोगों referred to as ग्रहण chasers or umbraphiles होगा  travel to remote locations to observe or witness predicted central solar eclipses .
A political party ( from , Genitive partis , `` part '' , `` portion '' ) is a political organization that typically seeks to influence ,  or entirely कंट्रोल , सरकारी नीति , प्रायः by nominating उम्मीदवार साथ लकीर राजनैतिक दृश्य और  trying to seat them in political office .
Parties participate in  चुनावी अभियान और शैक्षणिक मंगवाने  or protest actions .
Parties often  espouse an विचारधारा or दृष्टि , expressed  in a party program , bolstered by a written platform with specific goals , forming a coalition among disparate interests .
The mango is a fleshy stone  फल belonging to the genus  Mangifera , consisting of numerous tropical fruiting trees in the flowering plant family Anacardiaceae .
The mango is native to South Asia , from where it has been  वितरित विश्वव्यापी  to become one of the most cultivated fruits in the tropics .
जबकि अन्य mangifera प्रजाति ( e.g . घोड़ा आम , M. foetida ) हैं भी  grown on a more localized basis , Mangifera indica – the 'common mango ' or 'Indian mango ' – is the only mango tree commonly cultivated in many tropical and subtropical regions .
It is the national fruit of India  , पाकिस्तानी और फिलीपीन  .
In several cultures , its fruit and leaves  हैं ritually प्रयुक्त as पुष्पक सजावट at विवाह , पब्लिक जश्न  and religious ceremonies .
Gill Arnette Byrd , < ref name > http :  //www.pro-football-reference.com/players/b/byrdgi00.htm ( born फ़रवरी 20 , 1961 in सैन फ्रांसिस्को , कैलिफ़ोर्निया  ) is a former professional American football player .
He was a two  समय प्रो कटोरी cornerback in 1991 और 1992 लिये the सैन डिएगो chargers  after graduating from San Jose State University .
Byrd was inducted  into the chargers हॉल  of Fame in 1998 .
He was an  all-city कार्यशील वापस और रक्षात्मक वापस  at Lowell High School ( San Francisco ) , helping to lead the Cardinals to the city championship in his senior season of 1978 .
World map  प्रर्दशित the tropic  of Cancer
The Tropic of Cancer , also referred to as the Northern tropic , is the circle of latitude on the Earth  कि marks the सबसे northerly स्थिति at जिससे the सूर्य may appear सीधे  overhead at its zenith .
This event occurs once per year , at the time  of the जून संक्रांति , जब the उत्तरी गोलार्ध is tilted  toward the Sun to its maximum extent .
It currently ( Year 2013 ) lies at 23° 26′  15.143′′ उत्तर of the equator  .
Its Southern Hemisphere  बंटवारा , अंकन the सबसे southerly स्थिति at जिससे  the Sun may appear directly overhead , is the Tropic of Capricorn .
These tropics are two of the five major degree measures or major circles of latitude that mark maps of the Earth  , besides the आर्कटिक और अंटार्कटिक वृत्त और the equator  .
The positions of these circles of latitude ( other than the Equator ) are dictated by the tilt of the Earth  's अक्ष of रोटेशन सापेक्ष to the प्लेन of इसके कक्षा  .
DVD-Video is a consumer video format used to store digital video on DVD discs , and is currently the dominant  उपभोक्ता वीडियो स्वरूप in एशिया , उत्तर अमेरिका , यूरोपीय , और ऑस्ट्रेलिया  .
Discs using the DVD-Video specification require a DVD drive and an H.262/MPEG-2  भाग 2 डिकोडर ( e.g. , a dvd खिलाड़ी , or a कंप्यूटर  DVD drive with a software DVD player ) .
Commercial  dvd फिल्मों हैं एनकोडेड using a संयोजन of h.262/mpeg-2  Part 2 compressed video and audio of varying formats ( often multi-channel formats as described below ) .
typically , the आंकड़ा रेट लिये dvd फिल्मों  ranges from 3 Mbit/s to 9.5 Mbit/s , and the bit rate is usually adaptive .
it थी पहला उपलब्धियाँ  for retail around 1997 .
The DVD-Video specification was created by DVD Forum and can be  प्राप्त इससे dvd format/logo लाइसेंसिंग  Corporation for a fee of $ 5,000 .
The specification is not publicly available , because every  सदस्य जरूर चिह्न a non-disclosure अनुबंध  .
निश्चित सूचना in  the DVD Book is proprietary and confidential .
In computing and specifically Internet , a leech is one who benefits , usually  deliberately , इससे अन्य ' सूचना or प्रयत्न लकिन करता नहीं प्रस्ताव anything in वापसी  , or makes only token offerings in an attempt to avoid being called a leech .
In economics ,  इस प्रकार of बर्ताव is पुकारा ``  free riding '' and is associated with the free rider problem .
Depending on context , leeching does not necessarily refer to illegal use of computer resources  , लकिन प्रायः बजाय to लालची उपयोग according to तहज़ीब  : to wit , using too much of what is freely given without contributing a reasonable amount back to the community that provides it .
The name derives  इससे the जोंक , an एनिमल कि झंझट  blood and then tries to leave unnoticed .
Other terms  हैं प्रयुक्त , ऐसे as ``  freeloader '' , but leech is the most common .
The full eagle logo , used in various  संस्करण इससे 1970 to 1993  .
The United States Postal Service ( USPS ) , also known as the Post Office and U.S. Mail , is an independent agency  of the संयुक्त राज्य संघीय सरकारी जिम्मेदार लिये providing डाक  service in the United States .
It is  एक of the few सरकारी एजेंसियों  explicitly authorized by the United States Constitution .
The USPS traces its roots to 1775 during the  दूसरी महाद्वीपीय  Congress , where Benjamin Franklin was appointed the first postmaster general .
The cabinet-level Post Office Department was created in 1792 from Franklin 's operation and  रूपांतरित into इसके वर्तमान रूप in 1971 अंतर्गत the डाक  Reorganization Act .
The USPS employs  over 574,000 मजदूर और operates  over 260,000 vehicles .
The  usps is the ऑपरेटर  of the largest vehicle fleet in the world .
the usps is legally obligated  to serve all Americans , regardless of geography , at uniform price and quality .
The USPS has exclusive access to letter boxes marked `` U.S. Mail '' and  निजी letterboxes in the संयुक्त राज्य , लकिन  still competes against private package delivery services , such as UPS and FedEx .
The USPS has not directly received taxpayer-dollars since the early  1980s साथ the नाबालिग एक्सेप्शन of subsidies लिये लागत संबद्ध  with the disabled and overseas voters .
Since the 2006 all-time peak mail volume , after which Congress passed the Postal Accountability and Enhancement Act `` , ( which mandated $ 5.5 billion per year to be paid into an account to pre-fund retiree health-care , 75 years  into the भविष्य , a आवश्यकता अद्वितीय among संगठन और व्यवसायों in the u.S. ) , आय dropped sharply due to recession-influenced घटती मेल आवाज़ , prompting the डाक  service to look to other sources of revenue while cutting costs to reduce its budget deficit .
Washington , D.C. has been the  पूंजी of the संयुक्त राज्य  since 1800 .
आठ अन्य शहरों have परोसा as the बैठक प्लेस लिये  Congress and are therefore considered to have once been the capital of the United States .
In addition , each of the 50 U.S. states and the five principal  territories of the संयुक्त राज्य maintains इसके अपना  capital .
राजकुमारी काटें  diamond set in a ring
The  राजकुमारी काटें is the दूसरी सबसे लोकप्रिय  cut shape for diamonds , next to a round brilliant .
The face-up shape of the princess cut is square or rectangular and the profile or side-on  आकार is समान to कि of an उलट पिरामिड साथ चार  beveled sides .
The  राजकुमारी काटें is a अपेक्षाकृत नई डायमंड  cut , having been created in the 1960s .
It has gained in popularity in recent years as a more  distinctive वैकल्पिक to the अधिक लोकप्रिय गोलाकार शानदार काटें , in जिससे the शीर्ष of डायमंड  , called the crown , is cut with a round face-up shape and the bottom , called the pavilion , is shaped similar to a cone .
A princess cut with the same width as the  व्यास of a गोलाकार शानदार होगा तौल  more as it has four corners which would otherwise have been cut off and rounded to form a round brilliant .
The princess cut is  sometimes referred to as a  square modified brilliant .
However , while displaying the same high degree of brilliance , its faceting  स्टाइल is अद्वितीय और completely अलग इससे कि  of a round brilliant .
The Princess cut had its  origins in the जल्दी `` फ्रेंच '' काटें , having a step-modified `` double-french '' or `` क्रॉस '' काटें क्राउन और a श्रेणी of अद्वितीय  , chevron-shaped facets in the pavilion which combine to give a distinct cross-shaped reflection when the stone is viewed directly through the table .
Effectively , the Princess cut combines the high  उपाधि of लाइट वापसी of a गोलाकार शानदार काटें साथ  a distinctive square or rectangular shape .
The square princess cut diamond is usually  थोड़ा सस्ता than गोलाकार शानदार काटें ईंट  of the same carat weight because it retains about 80 % of the rough diamond , as opposed to the round brilliant which retains only about 50 % of the rough .
The ability to retain  अधिक क्रिस्टल वज़न makes इस आकार  popular amongst diamond cutters .
Accredited Gem Appraisers ( AGA ) and American Gem Society Laboratory ( AGSL ) and European Gem Laboratories-USA ( EGL-USA )  हैं फिलहाल the तभी लैब्स कि ग्रेड the राजकुमारी  cut for cut .
There is no universal definition of what measurements make an ideal  राजकुमारी काटें डायमंड और अनेक डायमंड निर्माताओं मार्केट आदर्श ईंट साथ  differing facet patterns and angles as `` ideal cut '' .
In contrast to the AGSL , AGA , and EGL-USA the Gemological Institute of America ( GIA ) has stated that there is not enough industry consensus or empirical data to  बताएँ काटें ग्रेडिंग मानकों लिये राजकुमारी काटें ईंट और to do so is at the रिस्क of उपभोक्ता जो may be धोखे by ईंट  accompanied by unqualified Ideal or Excellent cut grades .
The name `` Princess Cut '' was  originally प्रयुक्त in कनेक्शन साथ another डायमंड काटें , वरना  known as the `` Profile '' cut , designed by Arpad Nagy , a London cutter , in 1961 .
The same name was  बाद प्रयुक्त और बना लोकप्रिय by ygal पर्लमैन  , Betzalel Ambar , and Israel Itzkowitz in Israel in 1979 .
A similar cut with only 49  facets , as opposed to the असली 58 facets of the राजकुमारी काटें  , was later branded the `` Quadrillion '' and initially distributed by Ambar Diamonds in Los Angeles .
Three years of optical research yielded a square stone with  faceting समान to कि of a गोलाकार शानदार काटें  diamond .
A  तुलना
The  क्रमांक of chevrons can affect  the overall outlook of a princess cut diamond .
This can  प्रायः be संकल्पित by the तार आरेख  that is plotted in diamond grading reports .
By adding more chevrons on the pavilion side of  the डायमंड , the व्यक्तिगत facets of the डायमंड होगा अभी be टूटा bas  into smaller facets .
As a result , it can give a  राजकुमारी काटें डायमंड a `` कुचल बर्फ  '' look .
Vice versa , when a princess  काटें डायमंड रै lesser chevrons , it tends to दे the  diamond a chunky outlook due to broader facets .
The domestic dog ( Canis lupus familiaris ) is a subspecies of the gray wolf ( Canis lupus ) , a  सदस्य of the कैनिडाए परिवार of the mammalian अनुक्रम carnivora  .
The term `` domestic dog '' is generally used for  दोनो domesticated और feral किस्में  .
The dog has been the first animal to be  domesticated और रै महरूम the सबसे widely रखा  working , hunting , and pet animal in human history .
The word `` dog '' may also mean the male of a canine species , as opposed to the word `` bitch '' for  the मादा of the प्रजाति  .
MtDNA evidence shows an evolutionary split between the modern dog 's lineage and the modern  भेड़िया 's lineage around 100,000 सालो पहले लकिन , , the oldest चट्टान नमूनों genetically  linked to the modern dog 's lineage date to approximately 33,000-36,000 years ago .
Dogs ' value to  जल्दी इंसान hunter-gatherers led to उन्हें जल्दी  becoming ubiquitous across world cultures .
Dogs perform many roles for people  , ऐसे as शिकार , herding , pulling loads , सुरक्षा , assisting  police and military , companionship , and , more recently , aiding handicapped individuals .
This impact on human society has given them the nickname  `` man 's बेहतरीन dost  '' in the Western world .
In some cultures , dogs  हैं भी a सोर्स of मांस  .
In 2001 ,  वहीँ यहूद अनुमानित to be 400  million dogs in the world .
सबसे breeds of कुत्तो हैं at सबसे a few सौ  years old , having been artificially selected for particular morphologies and behaviors by people for specific functional roles .
Through this selective breeding , the dog has developed into hundreds of varied breeds , and shows more behavioral  और morphological विभिन्नता  than any other land mammal .
For example , height measured to the withers ranges from in the Chihuahua to about in the Irish Wolfhound ;  रंग varies इससे श्वेत through grays ( प्रायः पुकारा `` ब्लू '' ) to ब्लैक , और भूरा इससे लाइट ( तन ) to अंधेरा ( `` रेड '' or `` चॉकलेट  '' ) in a wide variation of patterns ; coats can be short or long , coarse-haired to wool-like , straight , curly , or smooth .
It is  आम लिये सबसे breeds  to shed this coat .
Diagram of a transmission  इलेक्ट्रॉन सूक्ष्मदर्शी
A 1973  siemens इलेक्ट्रॉन सूक्ष्मदर्शी  , Musée des Arts et Métiers , Paris
An electron microscope ( EM ) is a type of microscope that  उपयोग an इलेक्ट्रॉन बीम to illuminate a नमूना और  produce a magnified image .
An EM has  वृहद resolving शक्ति than a लाइट  microscope and can reveal the structure of smaller objects because electrons have wavelengths about 100,000 times shorter than visible light photons .
They can achieve better than 50 pm resolution and magnifications of up to about 10,000,000x whereas ordinary ,  non-confocal लाइट microscopes हैं सीमित by विवर्तन to परिचय 200 nm रेज़ोल्यूशन  and useful magnifications below 2000x .
The  इलेक्ट्रॉन सूक्ष्मदर्शी उपयोग electrostatic  and electromagnetic lenses to control the electron beam and focus it to form an image .
These electron  ऑप्टिकल lenses हैं  analogous to the glass lenses of a light optical microscope .
Electron microscopes are used to investigate the  ultrastructure of a चौड़ी दायरा of biological और अकार्बनिक नमूनों सहित microorganisms  , cells , large molecules , biopsy samples , metals , and crystals .
Industrially , the electron microscope is  प्रायः प्रयुक्त लिये विशेषता कंट्रोल  and failure analysis .
Modern electron microscopes produce electron micrographs , using specialized digital  कैमरे or फ़्रेम grabbers to कैप्चर the चित्र  .
Popeyes Louisiana  रसोईघर is a कड़ी of fried मुर्गा तेज़ खाना रेस्तरां संस्थापित in 1972 in नई  Orleans , Louisiana .
Often referred to as  popeyes और sometimes as popeyes मुर्गा & बिस्कुट or popeyes मुर्गा & seafood , it थी acquired  by Sandy Springs , Georgia -based AFC Enterprises , originally America 's Favorite Chicken Company , in 1993 .
According to a company press release dated June 29 , 2007 , Popeyes is the second-largest `` quick-service chicken restaurant group , measured by number of units '' , with more than 1,800  रेस्तरां in अधिक than 40 राज्य और the ज़िला of कोलंबिया , और over 22 देशों विश्वव्यापी सहित तुर्कों , उत्तरी साइप्रस , बहरीन , चीन , हांग काँग , इराकी  , Indonesia , Jordan , Kuwait , United Arab Emirates , Japan , Malaysia , Saudi Arabia , South Korea , Singapore , Canada , Jamaica , Guyana , Suriname , Mexico , Trinidad , Puerto Rico , Honduras , Vietnam , Panama , Peru , and Costa Rica .
परिचय तीस स्थितियाँ हैं company-owned  , the rest franchised .
The leg press is a weight training exercise in which the individual pushes a  वज़न or प्रतिरोध दूर इससे उन्हें using उनके  legs .
The  पद लेग दबायें भी refers to the  apparatus used to perform this exercise .
The leg press can be used to evaluate an athlete 's overall lower  देह शक्ति ( इससे  knee joint to hip ) .
Using  the तिर्यक sled-type लेग  press machine .
There are  दो प्रमुख प्रकार  of leg press:
The diagonal or vertical  'sled ' प्रकार लेग दबायें .
Weight disks ( plates ) are attached directly to the sled  , जिससे is आरोहित on  rails .
The user sits below the sled and pushes it  upward साथ उनके  feet .
These machines normally include adjustable safety brackets that prevent  the उपयोक्ता इससे होने फंस अंतर्गत the वज़न  .
the 'cable ' प्रकार लेग दबायें , or 'seated  leg press ' , commonly found on multigyms .
The  उपयोक्ता sits कतरा और pushes आगे साथ उनके  feet onto a plate that is attached to the weight stack by means of a long steel cable .
Wendy Williams Hunter ( born Wendy Joan Williams ; July 18 , 1964  ) is an अमरीकी मीडिया व्यक्तित्व , अभिनेत्री और लेखक  .
She hosts a syndicated  टेलीविज़न बात दिखाएँ , the वेन्डी विलियम्स  Show .
Prior to television , Williams  थी a `` शॉक jockette `` on  several radio shows .
Williams has gained notoriety for  उसके on-air spats साथ हस्तियाँ  .
She was  the विषय of the 2006 vh1 वास्तविकता  TV series called The Wendy Williams Experience which broadcast events surrounding her radio show .
She has written an  आत्मकथा और अनेक अन्य किताबे , और रै निर्मित a उत्पाद लकीर पुकारा  Adorn by Wendy Williams .
Patrick Henry  `` देशद्रोह '' वाक पहले the  House of Burgesses in an 1851 painting by Peter F. Rothermel
``  दे me स्वतंत्रता , or दे me मौत ! '' is a quotation attributed  to Patrick Henry from a speech he made to the Virginia Convention .
On that day , at St. John 's  गिरिजाघर in रिचमंड , वर्जिनिया , और is credited साथ having swung the संतुलन in convincing the वर्जिनिया  House of Burgesses to pass a resolution delivering the Virginia troops to the Revolutionary War .
Among the  delegates to the सम्मेलन  were future US Presidents Thomas Jefferson and George Washington .
Newfoundland and Labrador (  , locally ) is the easternmost  province of Canada .
Situated in the country 's Atlantic region , it incorporates the island of Newfoundland  और मेनलैंड labrador to the उत्तरपश्चिम , साथ a संयुक्त क्षेत्रफल  of .
In 2011 , the  प्रांत 's जनसांख्यिकी थी  514,536 .
Approximately 92 percent of the  प्रांत 's जनसांख्यिकी जीवनदान on the द्वीप of न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड ( सहित  its associated smaller islands ) , of which more than half live on the Avalon Peninsula .
The province is Canada 's  सबसे linguistically homogenous , साथ 97.6  % of residents reporting English ( Newfoundland English ) as their mother tongue in the 2006 census ; .
historically , न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड थी भी घर to अद्वितीय किस्में  of French , and Irish , as well as the now-extinct Beothuk language .
In Labrador , local dialects of  innu-aimun और inuktitut हैं भी बोला .
न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड और labrador 's पूंजी और largest नगर , st. जॉन 's , is कनाडा 's 20th-largest जनसांख्यिकी महानगर  Area , and is home to almost 40 percent of the province 's population .
St. John 's is the  सीट of सरकारी , घर to the हाउस of सभा of न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड  and Labrador and the highest court in the jurisdiction , the Newfoundland and Labrador Court of Appeal .
A former colony and dominion of  the संयुक्त किंगडम , न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड और labrador became the दसवाँ  province to enter the Canadian Confederation on March 31 , 1949 , as Newfoundland .
On December 6 , 2001 , an amendment was made to the Constitution of Canada to change the province 's official name to  न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड और labrador .
In day-to-day conversation , however , Canadians generally still  refer to the प्रांत itself as न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड और to the प्रदेश on the  Canadian mainland as Labrador .
थियोडोर `` t.r  . ''
Roosevelt , Jr. ( ; October 27 , 1858—January 6 , 1919 )  थी the 26th अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त  States ( 1901–1909 ) .
He is noted for his exuberant personality , range of interests and  उपलब्धियाँ , और उसके नेतृत्व of the प्रगतिशील गति , as खूब as उसके  `` cowboy `` persona and robust masculinity .
He was a leader of the Republican Party and  संस्थापक of the पहला अवतार of the  short-lived Progressive ( `` Bull Moose '' ) Party of 1912 .
Before becoming  अध्यक्ष , he आयोजित कार्यालयों  at the city , state , and federal levels .
Roosevelt  's उपलब्धियाँ as a naturalist , एक्सप्लोरर , शिकारी , लेखक , और सिपाही हैं as much  a part of his fame as any office he held as a politician .
Roosevelt was 42 years old when sworn in as President of the United  राज्य in 1901 , बनाना उसे the youngest अध्यक्ष कभी ; he ताल आउट the youngest निर्वाचित  president , John F. Kennedy , by only one year .
Roosevelt was also the  पहला of तभी तीन बैठे राष्ट्रपतियों to have जीती  the Nobel Peace Prize .
The Teddy bear is named after him ,  despite उसके  contempt for being called `` Teddy '' .
Born into a wealthy family in New York City , Roosevelt was a  sickly चाइल्ड जो suffered इससे दमा और  stayed at home studying natural history .
To overcome his physical  कमज़ोरी , he embraced a ज़ोरदार  life .
home-schooled , he became an eager  student of nature .
He attended Harvard University , where he studied  जीवविज्ञान ,  boxed and developed an interest in naval affairs .
In 1881 , one year out of Harvard , he was elected to the New York  राज्य सभा , जहाँ he became a नेता of the सुधार गुट  of his Republican Party ( the `` GOP '' ) .
His The Naval War of 1812 ( 1882 ) established his professional  प्रतिष्ठा as a गंभीर इतिहासकार ; he लिखा numerous किताबे on शिकार  , the outdoors , and current political issues , as well as frontier history .
In 1884 , his first  बीवी और उसके माँ died  on the same day .
He temporarily left politics and went to the frontier ,  बनने a rancher in the `` badlands '' in the dakotas  .
Returning to New York City , he ran for mayor in 1886 ,  finishing तीसरा साथ 60,000  votes .
He later gained fame by taking vigorous  चार्ज  of the city police .
At the  नेशनल स्तर  , he was a leader in civil service reform .
The Spanish–American War broke out in 1898  जबकि रूज़वेल्ट थी , effectively , कार्यशील  the Department of the Navy .
He promptly resigned and formed the Rough Riders – a volunteer  प्यादे रेजीमेंट कि लड़ा in क्यूबा  .
The war hero  थी निर्वाचित राज्यपाल  in 1898 and in 1900 was nominated for vice president .
He successfully energized the GOP base as a highly visible campaigner to reelect President  विलियम mckinley on a मंच of ऊँची tariffs  , the gold standard , imperialism , prosperity at home and victory abroad .
In 1901 , President William McKinley was  assassinated और रूज़वेल्ट  became President .
He attempted to move the Republican Party ( GOP ) toward Progressivism ,  सहित विश्वास busting और increased  regulation of businesses .
Roosevelt  became the पहला व्यक्ति निर्वाचित to a पद in उसके अपना सही in 1904 बाद having  ascended to the Presidency ( from the Vice-Presidency ) upon the death of his predecessor , winning the largest percentage of the popular vote since the uncontested election of 1820 .
Roosevelt coined the phrase `` Square Deal  `` to describe उसके घरेलू कार्यसूची , emphasizing  that the average citizen would get a fair share under his policies .
As an outdoorsman  और naturalist , he प्रचारित  the conservation movement .
On the world stage ,  रूज़वेल्ट 's नीतियों यहूद characterized by  his slogan , `` Speak softly and carry a big stick `` .
A cousin is a relative with whom a person shares one or  अधिक आम पूर्वज ( s ) ( अन्य than a जनक , child/descendant , सहोदर , child/descendant  of a sibling , or sibling of a parent/ancestor ) .
However in common parlance , ``  cousin '' सामान्यतः specifically  means `` first cousin '' .
प्रणालियों of `` डिग्री '' और `` removals '' हैं  used in the English-speaking world to describe the exact relationship between two cousins ( in the broad sense ) and the ancestor they have in common .
Various governmental entities have established systems for legal use that can more precisely  बताएँ kinships साथ आम पूर्वजो मौजूदा कोई क्रमांक of पीढियां in the पास्ट , हालांकि आम उपयोग  often eliminates the degrees and removals and refers to people with common ancestry as simply `` distant cousins '' or `` relatives '' .
Webster is an American situation comedy that aired on ABC from  सितंबर 16 , 1983 जबतक may 8 , 1987 , और in first-run अनुप्रयोग इससे  September 21 , 1987 until March 10 , 1989 .
The series was  निर्मित by stu चांदी  .
The show stars Emmanuel Lewis in the title role as a young boy who , after losing his  अभिभावक , is अपनाया by उसके एनएफएल -pro गॉडफादर , portrayed by एलेक्स karras , और उसके नई socialite  wife , played by Susan Clark .
The focus was largely on how this impulsively married couple had to adjust to  उनके नई जीवनदान और अचानक parenthood , लकिन it थी  the congenial Webster himself who drove much of the plot .
The series was produced by Georgian Bay Ltd. , Emmanuel Lewis  entertainment उद्यमों , inc. ( 1986-1989 ) और सर्वोपरि  Television .
Like NBC 's earlier hit Diff'rent Strokes , Webster featured a young African-American boy  अपनाया by a  white family .
तीन प्रकार of कोशिका  division
Cell division is the process by which a parent cell divides into two  or अधिक बेटी कोशिकाएं  .
कोशिका प्रभाग प्रायः occurs  as part of a larger cell cycle .
In eukaryotes , there are two distinct type of cell division : a vegetative division , whereby each  बेटी कोशिका is genetically एकसमान to the जनक कोशिका ( समसूत्रण ) , और a reductive कोशिका प्रभाग  , whereby the number of chromosomes in the daughter cells is reduced by half , to produce haploid gametes ( meiosis ) .
Both of these cell division cycles are required in sexually reproducing organisms at some point in their life cycle , and  दोनो हैं believed to be उपस्थित in the पिछला eukaryotic आम पूर्वज  Prokaryotes also undergo a vegetative cell division known as binary fission , where their genetic material is segregated equally into two daughter cells .
All cell divisions , regardless of organism ,  हैं preceded by a  single round of DNA replication .
For simple  एककोशिकीय जीवों ऐसे as the amoeba  , one cell division is equivalent to reproduction – an entire new organism is created .
On a larger scale , mitotic cell division can create progeny from  बहुकोशिकीय जीवों , ऐसे as पौधे कि grow इससे cuttings  .
Cell division also enables sexually reproducing  जीवों to develop इससे the one-celled zygote , जिससे itself थी  produced by cell division from gametes .
And after growth ,  कोशिका प्रभाग allows लिये continual निर्माण और  repair of the organism .
A  इंसान होने 's देह अनुभवों परिचय 10,000  trillion cell divisions in a lifetime .
Cell  प्रभाग रै महरूम modeled  by finite subdivision rules .
The primary concern of cell division is the maintenance  of the असली कोशिका  's genome .
Before division can occur , the genomic information that is stored in  गुणसूत्रों जरूर be replicated , और the duplicated genome जरूर be अलग cleanly  between cells .
A great deal of cellular infrastructure is involved in keeping genomic  सूचना सतत between `` पीढियां  '' .
पहाड़ सीमाएँ of  Massachusetts , United States .
Howard Jones ( born John Howard Jones ,  23 फ़रवरी 1955 , southampton , हैम्पशायर , इंग्लैण्ड  ) is a British musician , singer and songwriter .
according to the गिनीज किताब of अंग्रेजों hit singles & एल्बम , `` जोन्स is an  accomplished singer-songwriter who was a regular chart visitor in the mid-1980s with his brand of synthpop .
Jones , who was equally  लोकप्रिय in the  U.S. , appeared at Live Aid `` .
Allmusic  पत्रकार , स्टीफन थामस erlewine adds  , `` Jones was one of the defining figures of mid-1980s synthpop .
His music merged the technology intensive sound of New Wave with the cheery optimism  of hippies  and late 1960s pop .
जोन्स racked up a स्ट्रिंग of हिट्स in the  mid and late 1980s , before he retreated into being a cult figure in the 1990s '' .
The International Isle of Man TT ( Tourist Trophy ) Race is a motorcycle racing event  आयोजित on the आइल of man और थी लिये अनेक सालो the सबसे prestigious  motorcycle race in the world .
The  इवेंट थी भाग of the fim मोटरसाइकिल ग्रैंड प्रिक्स संसार चैंपियनशिप दौरान the काल 1949–1976  before being transferred to the United Kingdom after safety concerns and run by the FIM as the British Grand Prix for the 1977 season .
The Isle of Man TT Races became part of the  tt सूत्र 1 चैंपियनशिप इससे 1977  to 1990 to preserve the event 's racing status .
From 1989 the racing  रै महरूम विकसित by the आइल of man विभाग  of Tourism as the Isle of Man TT Festival .
the रेस is चलाएं in a time-trial स्वरूप on  public roads closed for racing by the provisions of an Act of Tynwald ( the parliament of the Isle of Man ) .
the पहला रेस थी आयोजित on मंगलवार 28 may 1907  and was called the International Auto-Cycle Tourist Trophy .
The event  थी संगठित by the auto-cycle  Club over 10 laps of the St John 's Short Course of 15 miles 1,470 yards for road-legal touring motorcycles with exhaust silencers , saddles , pedals and mud-guards .
The winner of  the single-cylinder क्लास , और overall विजेता of the पहला इवेंट in 1907 , थी चार्ली collier सवारी a matchless मोटरसाइकिल  in a time of 4 hours , 8 minutes and 8 seconds at an average race speed of 38.21 mph .
The winner of the  twin-cylinder क्लास थी rem fowler सवारी a peugeot एंजिन  Norton in a time of 4 hours 21 minutes and 52 seconds at an average race speed of 36.21 mph .
The trophy presented to  चार्ली collier as the विजेता of the 1907 आइल  of Man TT Race , was donated by the Marquis de Mouzilly St. Mars .
It  प्रदर्शित a stylised संस्करण of ओलम्पिक  God Hermes by Giovanni Da Bologna as a silver figurine astride a winged wheel .
The trophy was  समान in डिज़ाइन to the 18 कैरेट सुनहरा montague ट्रॉफी प्रस्तुत to जॉन नेपियर ( arrol-johnston  ) as the inaugural winner of the Isle of Man Tourist Trophy car race in 1905 now known as the RAC Tourist Trophy .
The Marquis de Mouzilly St. Mars Trophy is now presented annually to the winner  of the आइल of man वरिष्ठ tt motor-cycle रेस  .
The 2007 Isle of Man TT was the Centenary event which ran between  26 may और 8 जून 2007 और प्रदर्शित a खास re-enactment of the 1907 आइल of man  TT Race held on the village green next to Tynwald Hill in St John 's on Monday 28 May 2007 .
The  विंटेज परेड of 100 क्लासिक मोटरसाइकिल लिये the centenary re-enactment on the असली  St John 's Short Course was flagged away by former World Motor-Cycle Champion Geoff Duke .
The first of the participants to be flagged away was the recently restored twin-cylinder  peugeot-norton ridden by rem fowler दौरान the पहला आइल  of Man TT Race in 1907 .
Also participating in the 2007 Re-enactment was TT race  प्रतिस्पर्धी guy मार्टिन सवारी a 1938 triumph बाघ 100 500 cc और अन्य पूर्व  TT competitors including Alan Cathcart , Sammy Miller , Nick Jefferies and Mick Grant also completed the Re-enactment lap .
upright=1.15
बेरोजगारी ( or joblessness ) occurs जब लोगों हैं  without work and actively seeking work .
The  बेरोजगारी रेट is a माप of the व्यापकता of बेरोजगारी और it is गणना  as a percentage by dividing the number of unemployed individuals by all individuals currently in the labor force .
During periods of recession , an economy  प्रायः अनुभवों a अपेक्षाकृत ऊँची  unemployment rate .
According to  अंतरराष्ट्रीय श्रमिक संगठन रपट , अधिक than 197 लाख लोगों globally  are out of work or 6 % of the world 's workforce were without a job in 2012 .
There remains considerable  सैद्धांतिक बहस regarding the कल्याणकारी , consequences  and solutions for unemployment .
Classical  अर्थशास्त्र , नई शास्त्रीय अर्थशास्त्र , और the आस्ट्रिया स्कूल  of economics argue that market mechanisms are reliable means of resolving unemployment .
These theories argue against interventions imposed on the labor market from the outside , such as unionization , minimum wage  कानून , कर , और अन्य regulations कि वे अर्जी discourage  the hiring of workers .
Keynesian  अर्थशास्त्र emphasizes the cyclical प्रकृति of बेरोजगारी और अनुशंसा  government interventions in the economy that it claims will reduce unemployment during recessions .
This theory focuses on recurrent shocks that  एकाएक reduce कुल माँग लिये goods और सेवाएं और  thus reduce demand for workers .
Keynesian models recommend government interventions designed to increase demand for workers ; these can include  वित्तीय stimuli , सरेआम वित्तपोषित जॉब सृष्टि , और expansionist  monetary policies .
In addition to these comprehensive theories of unemployment , there are a few  categorizations of बेरोजगारी कि हैं प्रयुक्त to अधिक  precisely model the effects of unemployment within the economic system .
The main types of unemployment include structural unemployment which focuses on structural problems in the economy and inefficiencies inherent in labour markets ,  सहित a बेमेल between the सप्लाई और माँग of laborers साथ  necessary skill sets .
Structural arguments  emphasize कल्याणकारी और समाधान सम्बन्धित to  disruptive technologies and globalization .
Discussions of frictional unemployment focus on  voluntary निर्णय to कार्य आधारित on प्रत्येक individuals ' valuation of उनके अपना कार्य और  how that compares to current wage rates plus the time and effort required to find a job .
Causes and solutions for  frictional बेरोजगारी प्रायः पता  job entry threshold and wage rates .
Behavioral economists  हाइलाइट व्यक्तिगत biases in निर्णय बनाना , और प्रायः involve  problems and solutions concerning sticky wages and efficiency wages .
Collectivism is any philosophic ,  राजनैतिक , धार्मिक , आर्थिक , or सोशल आउटलुक कि emphasizes  the interdependence of every human being in a society or civilization .
Collectivism is a basic cultural element that exists as the reverse of individualism in  इंसान प्रकृति ( in the वही रास्ता ऊँची कॉन्टेक्स्ट संस्कृति  exists as the reverse of low context culture ) .
Collectivist  orientations तनाव the महत्व of मिलाप भीतर सोशल समूह  ( such as an `` in-group '' , in what specific context it is defined ) and in some cases , the priority of group goals over individual goals .
collectivists प्रायः फ़ोकस on  community , society , nation or country .
It has been used as an element in many different and diverse types of government and political ,  आर्थिक और शैक्षणिक तत्त्वज्ञान throughout इतिहास और सबसे  human societies in practice contain elements of both individualism and collectivism .
Some examples of collectivist cultures  शामिल इण्डिया और जापानी  .
Collectivism can be divided  into आड़ा collectivism और लंबवत  collectivism .
Horizontal collectivism stresses collective decision-making among equal individuals , and is thus  प्रायः आधारित on decentralization  and egalitarianism .
Vertical collectivism is based on hierarchical structures of power and on moral and cultural conformity ,  और is इसलिए आधारित on centralization और पदानुक्रम .
A cooperative enterprise would be an example  of आड़ा collectivism , whereas  a military hierarchy would be an example of vertical collectivism .
Acute disseminated encephalomyelitis ( ADEM ) is an immune  mediated बीमारी of the दिमाग  .
It usually occurs following a viral infection but may appear  following टीकाकरण , बैक्टीरियल  or parasitic infection , or even appear spontaneously .
As it involves  असंक्राम्य demyelination , it is समान  to multiple sclerosis , and is considered part of the Multiple sclerosis borderline diseases .
The incidence rate is about 8 per  1,000,000 लोगों प्रति साल  .
Although it  occurs in सब आयु , सबसे reported मामले हैं in children और  adolescents , with the average age around 5 to 8 years old .
The mortality  रेट may be as ऊँची as 5 % , पूरा रिकवरी is देखी in 50 to  75 % of cases , while up to 70 to 90 % recover with some minor residual disability .
The average time to recover is  एक to छह महीने  .
ADEM produces multiple inflammatory lesions in the  दिमाग और स्पाइनल cord ,  particularly in the white matter .
Usually these are found in the subcortical and central white matter and cortical gray-white junction of both cerebral hemispheres  , cerebellum , brainstem , और स्पाइनल cord , लकिन periventricular श्वेत पदार्थ और धूसर पदार्थ of the cortex  , thalami and basal ganglia may also be involved .
When the patient suffers more than one demyelinating episode , it is called recurrent disseminated  encephalomyelitis or multiphasic disseminated encephalomyelitis  ( MDEM ) .
The stomach is a muscular , hollow , dilated part of the digestion system which functions as an important organ of the digestive tract  in कुछ पशु , सहित vertebrates ,  echinoderms , insects ( mid-gut ) , and molluscs .
It is involved in the second phase  of पाचन , following mastication  ( chewing ) .
The stomach is located between  the ग्रासनाल और  the small intestine .
It secretes protein-digesting enzymes called protease and strong acids to aid in food digestion , ( sent to it via esophageal  peristalsis ) through चिकना  muscular contortions ( called segmentation ) before sending partially digested food ( chyme ) to the small intestines .
The word stomach is  निकला इससे the लैटिन stomachus जिससे is निकला इससे the यूनानी शब्द stomachos  ( στόμαχος ) , ultimately from stoma ( ) , `` mouth '' .
The words  gastro- और gastric ( अर्थ सम्बन्धित  to the stomach ) are both derived from the Greek word gaster ( ) .
1940 Pontiac Special  श्रेणी 25 woodie
A woodie is a car body style , especially a station  वैगन , जहाँ the पश्च bodywork is constructed  of wood framework with infill panels of wood or painted metal .
After the demise of  वास्तविक लकडी निर्माण , निर्माताओं प्रयुक्त अनुकरण  woodgrain sheet vinyl—sometimes augmented with three-dimensional , simulated framework—to recall wood construction .
In 2008  , लकडी निर्माण थी जगाई  abstractly on the Ford Flex with a series of side and rear horizontal grooves .
A pearl is a hard object produced within the  नरम ऊतक ( specifically the mantle  ) of a living shelled mollusc .
Just like the  शेल of a clam , a पर्ल is बना up of कैल्सियम  carbonate in minute crystalline form , which has been deposited in concentric layers .
The ideal pearl is perfectly round and  चिकना , लकिन अनेक अन्य आकार of मोती ( बरॉक  pearls ) occur .
The finest quality natural pearls have been highly valued as gemstones and objects of beauty for many centuries , and because of this , the word pearl has become a  रूपक लिये कुछ बहुत विरल , ठीक , सराहनीय  , and valuable .
The most valuable  मोती occur अनायास  in the wild , but they are extremely rare .
These wild  मोती हैं referred  to as natural pearls .
Cultured or farmed pearls from pearl oysters and  freshwater mussels मेक up the बहुमत of those कि  are currently sold .
Imitation pearls are also widely  बेची in inexpensive आभूषण , लकिन the विशेषता of उनके iridescence is प्रायः बहुत  poor , and often , artificial pearls are easily distinguished from genuine pearls .
Pearls have been harvested and  cultivated primarily लिये उपयोग in आभूषण , लकिन in the पास्ट  they were also stitched onto lavish clothing .
Pearls have also been  कुचल और प्रयुक्त in कॉस्मेटिक्स , दवाइयाँ  , and in paint formulations .
Whether wild or cultured , gem quality pearls  हैं लगभग सदा nacreous  and , as is the interior of the shell that produces them .
However , almost all species of shelled molluscs are capable of producing pearls ( formally  referred to as `` calcareous concretions '' by कुछ स्त्रोत ) of lesser चमक  or less spherical shape .
Although these may also be legitimately referred to as `` pearls '' by gemological labs  और भी अंतर्गत u.S. संघीय व्यापार आयोग नियम , और हैं formed in the  same way , most of them have no value , except as curiosities .
Bing ( known  previously as सजीव ढूंढें , खिड़कियाँ सजीव ढूंढें  , and MSN Search ) is a web search engine ( advertised as a `` decision engine `` ) from Microsoft .
Bing was unveiled by  microsoft सीईओ स्टीव बाल्मर on may 28 , 2009  at the All Things Digital conference in San Diego for release on June 1 .
Notable changes include the listing of search suggestions while queries are entered and a list of related searches ( called `` Explore pane '' ) based  on semantic प्रौद्योगिकी इससे powerset जिससे microsoft खरीदा in 2008  .
On  जुलाई 29 , 2009 , microsoft और याहू ! घोषित  a deal in which Bing would power Yahoo ! Search .
All Yahoo ! Search global  ग्राहक और साझेदार हैं अपेक्षित  to have made the transition by early 2012 .
In October 2011 , Bing announced it was  working on नई back-end ढूंढें अवसंरचना , साथ the लक्ष्य of  delivering faster and slightly more relevant search results for users .
Known as `` Tiger '' , the new  index-serving प्रौद्योगिकी रै महरूम incorporated into  Bing globally , since August 2011 .
In May 2012 ,  bing घोषित another redesign of इसके ढूंढें इंजन कि शामिल `` साइडबार  '' , a social feature that searches users ' social networks for information relevant to the search query .
A diagram showing an I Formation on  ठोकर और a 4-3 गठन  on defense
In American football , each team  रै ग्यारह खिलाड़ी on the  field at one time .
the विशिष्ट भूमिका कि a खिलाड़ी takes  on the field is called their position .
Under the modern rules of American football , teams  हैं अनुमत असीमित subsititutions , कि is टीमों  may change any number of players after any play .
This has resulted in the development of three ``  platoons '' of खिलाड़ी , the ठोकर ( the टोली साथ the  ball , who is trying to score ) , the defense ( the team trying to prevent the other team from scoring , and to take the ball from them ) , and the special teams ( who play in kicking situations ) .
Within  those platoons , विभिन्न विशिष्ट स्थितियाँ मौजूद depending  on what the player 's main job is .
The  आयरिश लोगों ( or na héireannaigh ; ulster-scots : airish fowk ) हैं an जातीय  group who originate in Ireland , an island in northwestern Europe .
Ireland has been populated for around 9,000 years (  according to पुरातत्व अध्ययन  , see Prehistoric Ireland ) .
The Irish people 's earliest ancestors are recorded in legends – they are claimed  to be descended इससे समूह ऐसे as the nemedians , fomorians ,  Fir Bolg , Tuatha Dé Danann and the Milesians .
Lebor Gabála Érenn , a book of Irish mythology tells that Milesians  यहूद स्काइथियन वंशजों  .
The main  समूह कि interacted साथ the आयरिश  in the Middle Ages include the Picts , Scots , and the Vikings .
Due to this  सम्पर्क , icelanders  are noted for having some Irish descent .
The Anglo-Norman  आक्रमण of the ऊँची मध्य आयु , the अंग्रेज़ी बागानों  and the subsequent English rule of the country introduced the Normans and Flemish into Ireland .
Welsh , Picts , Bretons , and small parties of Gauls and even Anglo-Saxons  हैं ज्ञात in आयरलैंड इससे much  earlier times .
There have been many notable  आयरिश लोगों throughout  history .
The 6th century Irish monk and missionary Columbanus is  regarded as एक of the `` fathers of यूरोपीय ''  , followed by Kilian of Würzburg and Vergilius of Salzburg .
the वैज्ञानिक रॉबर्ट  Boyle is considered the `` father of chemistry `` .
Famous Irish explorers include Brendan the  नाविक , रॉबर्ट mcclure , अर्नेस्ट shackleton और  Tom Crean .
By some accounts , the first European child born in North America had Irish  descent on दोनो पहलू ; और an irishman थी the पहला यूरोपीय to नियत पैर  on American soil in Columbus ' expedition of 1492 .
There are  वंशजों of आयरिश लोगों जीना in अनेक पश्चिमी  countries , particularly in English-speaking countries .
Historically , emigration  रै महरूम caused by राजनीती , अकाल  and economic issues .
An estimated 50 to 80 million people are descendants of Irish people , primarily in the United Kingdom , the United States , Australia , Canada and Iceland ; there are also smaller  संख्याएँ in अर्जेंटीना , चिली , मैक्सिको , जमैका , बारबाडोस , दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी , नई जीलैंड , फ़्रांस , जर्मनी और ब्राज़ील  .
The largest  क्रमांक of वंशजों of आयरिश  people live in the United States .
The number of people  जीना in ऑस्ट्रेलिया जो हैं of आयरिश descent  is higher , as a percentage of total population , than that of any other country .
लगभग चालीस प्रतिशत of the उपनिवेश  population of Iceland came from Ireland or Scotland .
The very first  निवासियों of आइसलैंड  were Irish .
The Hubble  स्पेस दूरदर्शी ( hst ) is a स्पेस दूरदर्शी कि थी carried  into orbit by a Space Shuttle in 1990 and remains in operation .
A aperture telescope in low  धरती कक्षा , हबल 's चार प्रमुख यंत्र observe in the  near ultraviolet , visible , and near infrared .
The  दूरदर्शी is नामित बाद the  astronomer Edwin Hubble .
Hubble 's orbit outside the  distortion of धरती 's माहौल allows it to लो अत्यधिक शार्प  images with almost no background light .
Hubble 's Deep Field have been some of the most detailed visible-light images ever ,  allowing a गहन दृश्य into स्पेस  and time .
Many Hubble observations have led  to सफलताएँ in astrophysics , ऐसे as accurately  determining the rate of expansion of the universe .
Although not the first space telescope , Hubble is one of the largest and most  बहुमुखी , और is खूब ज्ञात as दोनो a vital  research tool and a public relations boon for astronomy .
The HST was built by the United States  स्पेस एजेंसी नासा , साथ योगदान इससे the  European Space Agency , and is operated by the Space Telescope Science Institute .
The HST is one of NASA 's Great Observatories ,  साथ साथ the कॉम्पटन गामा रे वेधशाला , the चन्द्रा  X-ray Observatory , and the Spitzer Space Telescope .
Space  telescopes यहूद प्रस्तावित  as early as 1923 .
Hubble was funded in the 1970s , with a proposed launch  in 1983 , लकिन the प्रोजेक्ट थी घिरा by तकनीकी  delays , budget problems , and the Challenger disaster .
When finally launched in 1990 ,  वैज्ञानिकों मिला कि the प्रमुख दर्पण था महरूम  ground incorrectly , compromising the telescope 's capabilities .
The telescope was restored to its intended quality by a  सर्विसिंग मिशन in 1993  .
Hubble  is the तभी दूरदर्शी designed  to be serviced in space by astronauts .
Between 1993 and 2002 , four missions repaired , upgraded , and replaced systems on the  दूरदर्शी ; a पांचवां मिशन थी रद्द  on safety grounds following the Columbia disaster .
However , after spirited public discussion , NASA administrator  माइक griffin स्वीकृत एक फाइनल सर्विसिंग मिशन  , completed in 2009 by Space Shuttle Atlantis .
The  दूरदर्शी is अभी अपेक्षित to फलन  until at least 2013 .
Its scientific  successor , the जेम्स webb स्पेस दूरदर्शी  ( JWST ) , is to be launched in 2018 or possibly later .
anti-inflammatory refers to the  property of a substance or treatment that reduces inflammation .
Anti-inflammatory drugs make up about half  of analgesics , remedying पीड़ा by reducing सूजन as opposed to opioids  , which affect the central nervous system .
The Tonight Show is a US late-night talk  दिखाएँ कि रै  aired on NBC since 1954 .
It is the longest currently running regularly scheduled entertainment program in the US  और the तीसरा longest-running दिखाएँ on एनबीसी बाद  Meet the Press and Today .
The Tonight Show was hosted by Steve Allen ( 1954–1957 ) , Jack Paar (  1957–1962 ) , जॉनी कार्सन ( 1962–1992 ) , jay लीनो ( 1992–2009 , 2010–present  ) , and Conan O'Brien ( 2009–2010 ) .
Several guest hosts also appeared ,  विशेषकर दौरान the paar और  Carson eras .
The longest-serving host to date was Johnny Carson , who hosted The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson for 30 seasons from the fall of  1962 through the वसन्त of 1992  .
The current host of the show is Jay Leno , who had  previously hosted the दिखाएँ इससे 1992 to 2009 और began  his second tenure on March 1 , 2010 .
On April 3 , 2013 ,  एनबीसी घोषित jimmy fallon  would become the new host of The Tonight Show .
The Tonight Show with Jimmy Fallon will premiere  फ़रवरी 24 , 2014 , the दिन बाद the closing  ceremonies of the 2014 Winter Olympics .
SS Andrea  डोरिया .
Pronounced was an ocean liner for the Italian Line ( Società di navigazione Italia ) home ported in Genoa , Italy  , सबसे प्रसिद्ध लिये इसके डूब in 1956 , जब  52 people died ( 51 from immediate impact ) .
Named after the 16th-century Genoese admiral Andrea Doria , the ship had a gross  पंजीकरण tonnage of 29,100 और a क्षमता of परिचय 1,200  passengers and 500 crew .
For a country attempting to rebuild its economy and reputation after World War II  , एंड्रिया डोरिया थी an प्रतीक of इतालवी नेशनल  pride .
Of all Italy 's ships at the time , Andrea  डोरिया थी the largest , तीव्रतम  and supposedly safest .
Launched on 16 June 1951 , the ship  undertook इसके maiden voyage on 14 जनवरी  1953 .
On 25 July 1956 , while the  एंड्रिया डोरिया थी approaching the coast of nantucket , मैसाचुसेट्स , बंधी लिये नई यॉर्क नगर , the eastbound  of the Swedish American Line collided with it in what became one of history 's most infamous maritime disasters .
Struck in the side , the top-heavy Andrea Doria immediately started to list  severely to स्टारबोर्ड , जिससे बाएँ हाफ of  its lifeboats unusable .
The consequent shortage of lifeboats might have resulted in significant loss of life , but the efficiency of the  जलयान 's तकनीकी डिज़ाइन अनुमत it to रहो  afloat for over 11 hours after the ramming .
The good behavior of the crew , improvements in communications  और the रैपिड जवाब of अन्य जहाजों averted  a disaster similar in scale to that of the in 1912 .
1,660 passengers and crew were rescued and survived , while 46 people died as a  consequence of the टक्कर  .
The  evacuated लक्ज़री लाइनर capsized और  sank the following morning .
This accident  remains the worst मेरीटाइम विपत्ति to  occur in United States waters since the sinking of the in 1915 .
The incident and its aftermath were heavily  covered by the न्यूज मीडिया  .
While the rescue efforts were both successful and commendable , the  कारण of the टक्कर साथ the स्टॉकहोम और the  loss of Andrea Doria generated much interest in the media and many lawsuits .
Largely because of an out-of-court settlement agreement between the two shipping companies during hearings  तत्काल बाद the विपत्ति , no determination of the कारण ( s ) थी कभी formally प्रकाशित  .
Although greater blame appeared initially to fall on the  इतालवी लाइनर , अधिक हाल discoveries have indicated  that a misreading of radar on the Swedish ship may have initiated the collision course , leading to errors on both ships .
Andrea Doria was the last major transatlantic passenger vessel to sink before aircraft  became the पसन्दीदा विधि of  travel .
डायलिसिस  tubing
Dialysis tubing is a type of semi- or partially permeable  झिल्ली tubing बना इससे regenerated cellulose or सेलोफेन  .
It can be used for diffusion with solutes  or परासरण if प्रयुक्त साथ  water only .
Osmosis is when water  गुजरता through a semi-permeable  layer to reach equilibrium .
diffusion , on the अन्य हाथ , allows  the movement of molecules from high concentration to low concentration .
It will only allow molecules to pass through a  semi-permeable झिल्ली or परत if the अणु is छोटी पर्याप्त  to fit through the membrane or a membrane 's pore .
This usually  परिणाम साथ the प्रभाव of diffusion through a  membrane only really affects small molecules , and almost never larger molecules .
Dialysis tubing is used in clinical circumstances to ensure a  filtered प्रवाह of अणुओं , preventing the प्रवाह of larger solute अणुओं  .
Small  अणुओं can be `` धोया '' आउट of a समाधान जिससे is उत्तेजित through the  tubing into a solvent , usually water , which surrounds it and in which they can be flushed away .
In demonstrations of semi-permeable membranes , a solution containing several types of molecules , usually glucose and starch , is  लगाई into a semi-permeable डायलिसिस थैला , ऐसे as a cellulose झिल्ली साथ छिद्र  , and the bag is sealed with a knot or elastic band .
the sealed डायलिसिस थैला is  placed in a container of a different solution , or water .
Molecules small enough to pass through the tubing ( water , salts , monosaccharides , and other small  अणुओं ) tend to मूव into or आउट of the डायलिसिस थैला in the दिशा of अवरोहण विशेषज्ञता , इसलिए displaying  diffusion .
Larger molecules ( such as proteins , or polysaccharides )  कि have आयाम significantly वृहद than the pore व्यास हैं  retained inside the dialysis bag .
The water and smaller solutes in a  hypotonic समाधान ( a समाधान कि रै a lesser solute विशेषज्ञता than the समाधान it is संदर्भित to ) होगा क्रॉस a semi-permeable  membrane , like dialysis tubing , into a hypertonic solution ( a solution that has a higher solute concentration than the solution it is referenced to ) in an attempt to reach equilibrium , where the solute concentration of each solution is in equilibrium .
Mercury  प्रयोगशाला  thermometer
A thermometer ( from the Greek , thermos , meaning `` hot '' and μἐτρον , metron , `` measure '' ) is a  यंत्र कि उपायों तापमान  or temperature gradient using a variety of different principles .
A thermometer has two important elements  : the तापमान सेंसर ( e.g . the बल्ब on a mercury-in-glass थर्मामीटर ) in जिससे कुछ शारीरिक बदलें occurs साथ तापमान  , plus some means of converting this physical change into a numerical value ( e.g . the visible scale that is marked on a mercury-in-glass thermometer ) .
There are many  प्रकार और अनेक उपयोग लिये thermometers  , as detailed below in sections of this article .
Snow White and the  सात dwarfs is a 1937 अमरीकी एनिमेटेड musical काल्पनिक फिल्मी  produced by Walt Disney and released by RKO Radio Pictures .
Based on the German fairy tale by the Brothers Grimm , it is the first  full-length cel एनिमेटेड विशेषता फिल्मी और the earliest in  the Walt Disney Animated Classics series .
The story was adapted by storyboard artists Dorothy Ann Blank , Richard Creedon , Merrill De Maris , Otto Englander  , अर्ल hurd , लंड rickard , टेड सियर्स  and Webb Smith .
दाउद हाथ थी the supervising निदेशक , जबकि विलियम cottrell , विल्फ्रेड  Jackson , Larry Morey , Perce Pearce , and Ben Sharpsteen directed the film 's individual sequences .
Snow White premiered at the Carthay Circle Theatre on December 21 , 1937 , followed by a nationwide release on February 4 , 1938 , and with international  आय of $ 8 लाख दौरान इसके आरंभिक रिलीज briefly assumed the रिकार्ड  of highest grossing sound film at the time .
The popularity of the film has led to it being re-released theatrically many  टाइम्स , जबतक इसके घर वीडियो रिलीज in  the 1990s .
Adjusted for inflation , it is  एक of the शीर्ष टेन performers at the उत्तर  American box office .
At the  11th अकादमी पुरस्कार , वॉल्ट डिज़्नी थी  awarded an honorary Oscar , and the film was nominated for Best Musical Score .
It was added to the United  राज्य नेशनल फिल्मी रजिस्ट्री in 1989 और is क्रमित  in the American Film Institute 's list of the 100 greatest American films , who also named the film as the greatest American animated film of all time in 2008 .
Disney 's take on the fairy tale has had a big  सांस्कृतिक प्रभाव , resulting in a लोकप्रिय  theme park attraction , a video game , and a Broadway musical .
Childbirth , labour , delivery ,  जनम , partus , or parturition is the culmination of  a pregnancy period with the expulsion of one or more newborn infants from a woman 's uterus .
The process of normal childbirth is categorized in three stages of labour : the shortening and dilation of the  ग्रीवा , descent और जनम  of the infant , and birth of the placenta .
In many cases and with increasing frequency , childbirth is achieved through  प्रेरण of मजदूर or caesarean खण्ड , जिससे is the हटाना of the neonate through a सर्जिकल incision in  the abdomen , rather than through vaginal birth .
Childbirth by C-Sections increased 50 % in the U.S. from 1996  to 2006 , और comprise nearly 32  % of births in the U.S. and Canada .
With respect to induced labor , more than 22 % of women  undergo प्रेरण of श्रमिक in the संयुक्त राज्य  .
Medical professional policy makers find that induced births and  elective cesarean can be नुकसानदेह to the भ्रूण और neonate as खूब as नुकसानदेह or बगैर लाभ to the माँ , और have स्थापित सख्त दिशानिर्देश  for non-medically indicated induced births and elective cesarean before 39 weeks .
Viva La Bam was an MTV & Viva show  जिससे followed bam margera और उसके क्रू as वे undertook चुनौतियां  , performed stunts and traveled the world .
the दिखाएँ भागा लिये 5 सीज़न  between 2003 and 2005 .
Flushed Away is a 2006  british/american कंप्यूटर एनिमेटेड कार्रवाई / एडवेंचर  comedy film directed by David Bowers and Sam Fell .
It was made in the partnership between Aardman Animations and DreamWorks Animation , and  is aardman 's पहला completely computer-animated विशेषता  as opposed to the usual stop-motion .
The film stars the  आवाज़ talents of ह्यूज जैकमैन , केट विंसलेट , एंडी  Serkis , Bill Nighy , Ian McKellen , Shane Richie and Jean Reno .
The story was by Sam Fell , Peter Lord , Dick Clement , and Ian La Frenais , and the screenplay  थी लिखा by लंड सहनशील , इयान la frenais , क्रिस्टोफर लॉयड , जो keenan  , and William Davies .
The film was released in US on 3  नवम्बर 2006 , और in uk on दिसम्बर 1 2006 , और थी  distributed by Paramount Pictures , except for Switzerland , Spain , and the Netherlands , which were handled by Universal Pictures .
The Atlanta Braves are a  पेशेवर बेसबॉल टोली  based in Atlanta .
The Braves are a member of the Eastern Division of Major  लीग बेसबॉल 's नेशनल लीग  .
The Braves  have निभाई in टर्नर  Field since 1997 .
The `` Braves '' name , which was first used in  1912 , originates इससे a पद लिये  a Native American warrior .
वे हैं nicknamed `` the bravos '' , और प्रायः referred to as  `` America 's Team `` in reference to the team 's games being broadcast on the nationally available TBS from the 1970s until 2007 , gaining a wide fanbase .
From 1991 to 2005 the Braves were one of the most successful franchises in baseball , winning division  शीर्षक an unprecedented 14 लगातार टाइम्स in कि काल ( omitting the strike-shortened 1994 ऋतु in जिससे  there were no official division champions ) .
The Braves won the NL West 1991–93 and the NL East 1995–2005 , and  लौटे to the playoffs as the नेशनल लीग जंगली  Card in 2010 .
The Braves advanced to the World Series five times in  the 1990s , जीतना the शीर्षक in  1995 .
Since their debut in the National League in 1876 , the  मताधिकार रै जीती 16 डिवीजनल शीर्षक , 17 नेशनल लीग pennants , as खूब as तीन संसार श्रेणी championships—in 1914 as the बोस्टन braves  , in 1957 as the Milwaukee Braves , and in 1995 in Atlanta .
The Braves are the  तभी एमएलबी मताधिकार to have जीती the संसार श्रेणी  in three different home cities .
The club is one of the National League 's two remaining charter franchises ( the other being the Chicago Cubs ) and was founded  in बोस्टन , मैसाचुसेट्स , in 1871 as the बोस्टन रेड stockings ( नहीं to be उलझन साथ the अमरीकी लीग 's बोस्टन रेड sox  ) .
They are considered ``  the oldest  continuously playing team in major North American sports . ''
There is an argument as to who is actually older because although the Cubs are a full season `` older '' ( formed as the Chicago White Stockings in 1870 ) Chicago  खोया दो सीज़न to the ग्रेट शिकागो आग , यूँ the braves have निभाई अधिक लगातार सीज़न  .
After various name  परिवर्तन ( ऐसे as the बोस्टन beaneaters ) ,  the team operated as the Boston Braves for most of the first half of the 20th century .
In 1953 , the  टोली स्थानांतरित to मिल्वौकी , विस्कॉन्सिन  and became the Milwaukee Braves , followed by the move to Atlanta in 1966 .
The team 's tenure in Atlanta is famous  लिये हांक  Aaron breaking Babe Ruth 's career home run record in 1974 , though the majority of Aaron 's home runs were hit while the team was in Milwaukee .
His record stood until  2007 , जब सैन फ्रांसिस्को बाएँ क्षेत्ररक्षक बैरी  Bonds broke the record .
The  पत्ते of a  Beech tree
3D rendering  of a μct स्कैन of a पत्ता  piece , resolution circa 40 μm/ voxel .
A leaf is an organ of a vascular plant , as defined  in वनस्पति शर्तें , और in particular  in plant morphology .
Foliage is a mass noun that  refers to पत्ते as a विशेषता  of plants .
Typically a leaf is a thin , flattened organ borne above ground and specialized for photosynthesis , but many types of leaves are adapted in ways almost unrecognisable in those terms : some are not flat ( for example many succulent leaves and conifers ) , some are not  ऊपर मैदान ( ऐसे as बल्ब तराजू ) , और कुछ हैं बगैर प्रमुख photosynthetic फलन ( consider लिये उदाहरण cataphylls  , spines , and cotyledons ) .
Conversely , many structures of  non-vascular पौधे , or भी of कुछ lichens , जिससे हैं नहीं पौधे  at all ( in the sense of being members of the kingdom Plantae ) , do look and function much like leaves .
Furthermore  , अनेक structures मिला in vascular  plants look like leaves but are not actually leaves ; they differ from leaves in their structures and origins .
Examples  शामिल phyllodes , cladodes  , and phylloclades .
Title card for the  1937 हमारी गिरोह कॉमेडी  Rushin ' Ballet .
Our  गिरोह ( भी ज्ञात as the छोटी दुष्टों or एचएएल रोच 's दुष्टों  ) are a series of American comedy short films about a group of poor neighborhood children and their adventures .
Created by comedy producer Hal Roach , the series is noted for showing children behaving in a relatively natural way , as Roach and original  निदेशक रॉबर्ट F. mcgowan worked to फिल्मी the unaffected , कच्चा nuances apparent in नियमित children बल्कि than have उन्हें  imitate adult acting styles .
In addition , Our Gang notably put boys , girls , whites and blacks together in a group as equals ,  कुछ कि `` broke  new ground , '' according to film historian Leonard Maltin .
Such a thing had  never महरूम किया पहले in सिनेमा लकिन रै  since been repeated after the success of Our Gang .
The first production at the Roach  स्टुडियो in 1922 थी a श्रेणी  of silent short subjects .
When Roach changed  वितरकों इससे pathé to metro-goldwyn-mayer ( mgm ) in 1927 , और  converted the series to sound in 1929 , the series took off even further .
Production continued at the  रोच स्टुडियो जबतक 1938 , जब the श्रेणी थी बेची to mgm  , who then continued producing the comedies until 1944 .
The Our Gang series includes a total of 220 shorts and one  विशेषता फिल्मी , सामान्य spanky , featuring over forty-one  child actors .
As MGM retained the rights to the Our Gang trademark  following उनके खरीदें of the उत्पादन अधिकारों , the 80 roach-produced `` टॉकीज़ '' यहूद syndicated  for television under the title The Little Rascals beginning in 1955 .
Both Roach 's The Little Rascals package (  अभी स्वामित्व by सीबीएस टेलीविज़न वितरण ) और mgm 's हमारी गिरोह पैकेज ( अभी स्वामित्व  by Warner Bros. Entertainment ) have since remained in syndication , with periodic new productions based on the shorts surfacing over the years , including a 1994 Little Rascals feature film released by Universal Pictures .
Zacharias Janssen ( also  zacharias जानसन or sacharias जानसन ) ( b.1580-88 , d.pre-1632 to  1638 ) was a Dutch spectacle-maker from Middelburg associated with the invention of the first optical telescope .
Janssen is sometimes also  credited लिये inventing the पहला  truly compound microscope .
However , the origin  of the सूक्ष्मदर्शी , बस जैसे the उत्पत्ति  of the telescope , is a matter of debate .
Lake Tahoe ( ; Washo : dáʔaw ) is a  विशाल freshwater झील in the सिएरा  Nevada of the United States .
At a surface elevation of , it is located along the border between California  और नेवाडा , वेस्ट of कार्सन नगर  .
Lake Tahoe is  the largest अल्पाइन  lake in North America .
Its depth is , making it the United State 's  second-deepest ( the deepest is crater झील in ऑरेगॉन  , being deeper , at ) .
Additionally , Lake Tahoe is  सूचीबद्ध as the 26th largest  lake by volume in the world at .
The lake was formed about 2 million years ago and is a part of  the झील tahoe जलाशय साथ the आधुनिक  lake being shaped during the ice ages .
It is known for the clarity of  इसके जल और the परिदृश्य of surrounding  mountains on all sides .
The area surrounding the lake is  भी referred to as झील tahoe  , or simply Tahoe .
Lake Tahoe is a major tourist attraction  in दोनो नेवाडा और कैलिफ़ोर्निया  .
It is home to a number of ski resorts , summer  बाहरी मनोरंजन , और पर्यटक  attractions .
हिम और स्कीइंग हैं  a significant part of the area 's economy and reputation .
Mountain and lake scenery are  आकर्षण throughout  the year .
The Nevada side also  शामिल विशाल  casinos .
Highways provide  year-round अभिगम इससे रेनो , कार्सन  City , and Sacramento .
Page 1  of the twenty-seventh  Amendment 's certification in the National Archives
पेज 2 of the amendment  's certification
Page 3 of the amendment 's  प्रमाणन
The Twenty-seventh Amendment ( Amendment XXVII ) prohibits any  विधि कि increases or decreases the सैलरी of सदस्यों  of the Congress from taking effect until the start of the next set of terms of office for Representatives .
It is the most recent amendment  to the संयुक्त  States Constitution .
It was submitted to the states for  अनुसमर्थन in 1789 और  was adopted in 1992 .
“First they came ... ” is a famous  बयान और उत्तेजक कविता attributed  to pastor Martin Niemöller ( 1892–1984 ) about the sloth of German intellectuals following the Nazis ' rise to power and the subsequent purging of their chosen targets , group after group .
There is some disagreement over the exact wording of the quotation and when it was created ; the content of the quotation may  have महरूम प्रस्तुत differently by niemöller on अलग  occasions .
This list of islands by  क्षेत्रफल शामिल सब आइलैंड्स in the संसार वृहद than 2,500  km2 ( ) and several other islands over 500 km2 ( ) , sorted in descending order by area .
For comparison ,  महाद्वीपों हैं भी  shown .
Four  तिहाई  logo
The Four Thirds system is a standard created by Olympus and Kodak for digital single-lens reflex camera ( DSLR )  डिज़ाइन और development. < संदर्भ name='dpreview.com  2001-02-13 ' >
The system provides a standard that , with digital cameras and lenses available from multiple manufacturers , allows  लिये the इंटरचेंज of lenses और लाशें इससे अलग  manufacturers .
seems  to कवर  the standard .
Proponents describe it as an  खोलें मानक , लकिन कंपनियाँ may तभी  use it under a non-disclosure agreement .
Unlike older SLR systems , Four Thirds has  महरूम designed इससे the मैदान up to be  entirely digital .
Many lenses are extensively computerized , to the point  कि ओलम्पस offers फर्मवेयर अद्यतन  for many of them .
Lens design has  महरूम tailored to the आवश्यकताएँ of डिजिटल सेंसर  , most notably through telecentric designs .
The size of the sensor is  significantly छोटी than लिये सबसे dslrs और इस implies कि  lenses , especially telephoto lenses , can be smaller .
For example , a Four Thirds lens with a  300 mm फोकल लंबाई होता कवर परिचय the वही कोण  of view as a 600 mm focal length lens for the 35 mm film standard , and is correspondingly more compact .
Thus , the Four Thirds System has crop factor ( focal  लंबाई गुणक ) of परिचय 2 , और जबकि इस enables longer फोकल लंबाई लिये वृहद आवर्धन  , it does n't aid the manufacture of wide angle lenses .
The image sensor format , generally intermediate  between those of larger slrs और छोटी कॉम्पैक्ट कैमरे , generally देता स्तर  of cost , performance and convenience intermediate between those two classes .
HVAC systems use ventilation air ducts installed throughout a building to supply conditioned air to a room through outlet vents ,  पुकारा diffusers ; और नलिकाएं to हटाएँ एयर through return-air  grilles .
HVAC  ( हीटिंग , वेंटिलेशन  , and air conditioning ) is the technology of indoor and automotive environmental comfort .
HVAC system  डिज़ाइन is a subdiscipline of mechanical अभियान्त्रिकी  , based on the principles of thermodynamics , fluid mechanics , and heat transfer .
प्रशीतन is sometimes  added to the field 's abbreviation as HVAC & R or HVACR , or ventilating is dropped as in HACR ( such as the designation of HACR-rated circuit breakers ) .
HVAC is important in the design of medium to large industrial and office buildings such as skyscrapers and in marine environments such as  एक्वैरियम , जहाँ सुरक्षित और स्वस्थ भवन शर्तें हैं  regulated with respect to temperature and humidity , using fresh air from outdoors .
Ventilation on the downdraught system , by  impulsion , or the 'plenum ' principle , लागू to  schoolrooms ( 1899 )
Heating , ventilating , and air conditioning is based on inventions and discoveries made by Nikolay Lvov , Michael Faraday , Willis  वाहक , reuben trane , जेम्स जूल , विलियम rankine  , Sadi Carnot , and many others .
The invention of the components of HVAC systems went hand-in-hand with the industrial revolution , and new  विधि of modernization , उच्चतर दक्षता  , and system control are constantly introduced by companies and inventors worldwide .
The three central functions of heating , ventilating , and air-conditioning are interrelated , especially with the need to provide thermal  सुकून और स्वीकार्य अंदर एयर विशेषता भीतर उचित संस्थापना , आपरेशन  , and maintenance costs .
HVAC systems can provide  वेंटिलेशन , reduce एयर घुसपैठ , और maintain दबाव  relationships between spaces .
The means of air delivery and removal from  स्पेसेस is ज्ञात as रूम  air distribution .
The starting point in carrying out an  अनुमान दोनो लिये कूलिंग और  heating depends on the exterior climate and interior specified conditions .
However before taking up the heat load calculation  , it is जरुरी to ढूँढें भैस  air requirements for each area in detail , as pressurization is an important consideration .
In modern buildings the design , installation , and control systems of these functions are integrated into  एक or अधिक hvac प्रणालियों  .
लिये बहुत छोटी इमारतें , ठेकेदारों सामान्यतः  capacity engineer and select HVAC systems and equipment .
For larger buildings , building services  designers और इंजीनियर्स , ऐसे as mechanical  , architectural , or building services engineers analyze , design , and specify the HVAC systems , and specialty mechanical contractors fabricate and commission them .
Building permits and code-compliance inspections of the installations are  सामान्यतः जरूरी लिये  all sizes of buildings .
The HVAC industry is a worldwide enterprise , with roles including operation and maintenance , system design and  निर्माण , उपकरण निर्माण और बिक्री , और in शिक्षा  and research .
The HVAC industry  थी historically regulated by the निर्माताओं of hvac उपकरण , लकिन regulating और मानकों संगठन ऐसे as hardi , ashrae , smacna  , ACCA , Uniform Mechanical Code , International Mechanical Code , and AMCA have been established to support the industry and encourage high standards and achievement .
Royal Navy Commander James Bond , CMG , RNVR , is a fictional character  निर्मित by अंग्रेजों पत्रकार और  novelist Ian Fleming in 1953 .
He is the  समर्थक of the जेम्स बंध श्रेणी  of novels , films , comics and video games .
Fleming wrote twelve Bond novels and two short story collections before his death , although the  पिछला दो books— the man साथ the सुनहरी गन और octopussy और the जीना daylights  —were published posthumously .
The Bond character is a Secret Service  एजेंट , कोड क्रमांक 007 , residing in लंदन  but active internationally .
Bond was a  कम्पोजिट अक्षर जो थी आधारित on a क्रमांक of कमांडो जिसको फ्लेमिंग knew दौरान उसके सेवा in the नवल प्रज्ञा  Division during World War II , to whom Fleming added his own style and a number of his own tastes ; Bond 's name was appropriated from American ornithologist James Bond .
Bond has a number of character traits which run  throughout the किताबे , सहित an enjoyment of गाड़ियाँ , a प्रेम  of food and drink , and an average intake of sixty custom-made cigarettes a day .
Since Fleming 's death in 1964 , there have been other authorised writers of Bond material , including John Gardner , who wrote fourteen novels  और दो novelizations और रेमंड बेंसन , जो लिखा छह novels ,  three novelizations and three short stories .
There have also been three authors who wrote one book each , Kingsley Amis ( writing as Robert  markham ) , सेबेस्टियन faulks और jeffery deaver  .
Additionally a  श्रेणी of novels आधारित on बंध 's youth—  Young Bond —was written by Charlie Higson .
As spin-offs from the literary works , there was a television adaptation of the  पहला अनोखा , कसीनो royale , in जिससे बंध थी  played as an American agent .
A comic strip series  भी भागा in  the Daily Express newspaper .
There have also  महरूम twenty-five बंध films ; सात अभिनेताओं  have played Bond in these films .
`` Nature Boy  '' is a सोंग by ईडन ahbez  , published in 1947 .
The song tells a fantasy of a `` strange enchanted boy ... who wandered very far '' only to learn that ``  the महानतम बात ... थी बस to प्रेम और be loved in वापसी  '' .
Nat King Cole 's 1948 recording  of the सोंग थी a प्रमुख hit और  `` Nature Boy '' has since become a pop and jazz standard , with dozens of major artists interpreting the song .
Louisiana ( or ; , ; Louisiana Creole : Léta de la Lwizyàn ) is a  राज्य स्तिथ in the दक्षिणी प्रदेश  of the United States of America .
Louisiana is the 31st most  extensive और the 25th सबसे  populous of the 50 United States .
इसके पूंजी is baton  Rouge and largest city is New Orleans .
Louisiana is the  तभी राज्य in the u.S. साथ राजनैतिक subdivisions termed  parishes , which are local government 's equivalent to counties .
The largest  मोहल्ला by जनसांख्यिकी is ईस्ट baton रूज मोहल्ला , और  the largest by land area is Cameron Parish .
Much of  the राज्य 's lands यहूद formed इससे sediment धोया bas the  Mississippi River , leaving enormous deltas and vast areas of coastal marsh and swamp .
These contain a rich southern biota ;  ठेठ उदाहरण शामिल  birds such as ibis and egrets .
There  हैं भी अनेक प्रजाति of पेड़ मेंढक  , and fish such as sturgeon and paddlefish .
In more elevated areas , fire is a natural process in the landscape , and has produced extensive  क्षेत्रों of longleaf पाइन वन और  wet savannas .
These support an exceptionally large number of plant species ,  सहित अनेक प्रजाति of orchids और  carnivorous plants .
Some Louisiana urban environments have a multicultural , multilingual heritage , being so strongly  बहकावे by an जिसमें of 18th-century फ्रेंच , स्पेनी , देशी अमरीकी ( भारतीय ) और अफ़्रीकी संस्कृतियों  that they are considered to be somewhat exceptional in the U.S .
Before the  अमरीकी खरीदें of the territory , the वर्तमान  Louisiana State had been both a Spanish and French colony .
In addition , the pattern of development included importing numerous African slaves in the 18th  सदी , साथ अनेक इससे the वही प्रदेश of वेस्ट अफ़्रीकी , यूँ  concentrating their culture .
In the post-Civil War  पर्यावरण , anglo-americans increased the दबाव लिये anglicization  , and in 1915 , English was made the only official language of the state .
Women 's rights are  the अधिकारों और entitlements claimed लिये  women and girls of many societies worldwide .
In some  स्थान ये अधिकारों हैं institutionalized  or supported by law , local custom , and behaviour , whereas in others they may be ignored or suppressed .
They differ from broader notions of human rights through claims of  an अंतर्निहित ऐतिहासिक और परंपरागत पूर्वाग्रह विरूद्ध the कसरत of अधिकारों by  women and girls in favour of men and boys .
Issues commonly associated with notions of women 's rights include  , हालांकि हैं नहीं सीमित to , the सही : to bodily अखंडता और स्वायत्तता ; to vote  ( suffrage ) ; to hold public office ; to work ; to fair wages or equal pay ; to own property ; to education ; to serve in the military or be conscripted ; to enter into legal contracts ; and to have marital , parental and religious rights .
The laws of science or scientific laws are statements that describe ,  भविष्यवाणी , और शायद बताइये क्यों , a दायरा of phenomena व्यवहार as वे appear to in  nature .
The term `` law ''  रै विविध उपयोग in अनेक मामले : सन्निकट , सटीक  , broad or narrow theories , in all natural scientific disciplines ( physics , chemistry , biology , geology , astronomy etc . ) .
An analogous  पद लिये a वैज्ञानिक  law is a principle .
वैज्ञानिक विधिs:
summarize a large collection of facts  संकल्पित by प्रयोग into a सिंगल  statement,
can usually be formulated mathematically as one or several statements or equation , or at least stated in  a सिंगल वाक्य , so कि it can be प्रयुक्त to भविष्यवाणी the निष्कर्ष of an प्रयोग  , given the initial , boundary , and other physical conditions of the processes which take place,
are strongly supported by empirical evidence - they are scientific  ज्ञान कि प्रयोग have repeatedly सत्यापित  ( and never falsified ) .
Their accuracy does not change when new theories are worked out , but rather the scope of  अनुप्रयोग , चूंकि the समीकरण ( if कोई )  representing the law does not change .
As with other scientific knowledge , they do not  have निरपेक्ष certainty जैसे गणितीय theorems or पहचान , और it is सदा  possible for a law to be overturned by future observations .
are often quoted as a fundamental  controlling influence बल्कि than a वर्णन of observed तथ्य  .
I.e .  `` the कानून of गति  require that ''
Laws differ from hypotheses and postulates , which are  प्रस्तावित  during the scientific process before and during validation by experiment and observation .
These are not  कानून चूंकि वे have नहीं महरूम सत्यापित to the वही उपाधि और may नहीं be fear सामान्य  , although they may lead to the formulation of laws .
A law is a more  solidified और औपचारिक बयान , आसुत  from repeated experiment .
Although the concepts of a law or principle in nature is borderline to philosophy , and presents the depth to which  गणित can describe प्रकृति , वैज्ञानिक कानून हैं माना इससे a वैज्ञानिक परिप्रेक्ष्य और follow the वैज्ञानिक विधि ; वे `` serve उनके purpose '' बल्कि than `` questioning वास्तविकता '' ( philosophical )  or `` statements of logical absolution '' ( mathematical ) .
For  उदाहरण , whether a  law `` refers to reality '' is a philosophical issue , rather than scientific .
fundamentally , सब वैज्ञानिक कानून follow इससे भौतिकी  , laws which occur in other sciences ultimately follow from physical laws .
Often , from mathematically fundamental viewpoints ,  सार्वभौमिक स्थिरांक emerge  from scientific laws .
The launch of the PlayStation 3 into the Japanese market on 10 November 2006  चिह्नित the दूसरी प्रमुख सातवाँ पीढी entertainment  system to be released .
The system was released seven days later on 17 November in the  संयुक्त राज्य  .
Introduction into other world markets was delayed by a shortage of diodes for use in the Blu-ray disc player ;  the यंत्र थी शुभारम्भ in यूरोपीय और अन्य संसार बाज़ार in the पहला  half of 2007 .
Lauren Fenmore Baldwin ( formerly  विलियम्स और grainger ) is a fictional अक्षर  from the CBS soap operas The Young and the Restless and The Bold and the Beautiful , portrayed by Tracey E. Bregman .
She made her debut  दौरान the एपीसोड airing  on January 21 , 1983 .
In  1992 , bregman began बनाना विरल दिखावे on the बिंदास और the खूबसूरत  , later resulting in the character migrating there fully in 1995 .
Following a guest appearance in 2000 , Bregman returned to The Young and the Restless on  अगस्त 24 , 2001 , बाकी on पुनरावर्ती औकात  .
In 2013 ,  it थी घोषित कि bregman  had been placed on contract .
Much of Lauren 's history has revolved around her  romances साथ पॉल विलियम्स , स्कॉट grainger , sr. , और माइकल baldwin among अनेक अन्य causing a fierce फंसने  with Traci Abbott Connolly .
लॉरेन is भी प्रसिद्ध लिये उसके long , हिंसक  rivalry with Sheila Carter .
The 2010 NBA Finals was the National Basketball Association (  एनबीए ) चैंपियनशिप श्रेणी लिये the 2009–10 ऋतु  .
The best-of-seven playoff was contested between the Los Angeles Lakers  , champions of the पश्चिमी सम्मेलन और defending एनबीए champions  , and the Boston Celtics , champions of the Eastern Conference .
The Lakers defeated the Celtics , four games to three , to win the franchise 's  16th एनबीए चैंपियनशिप  .
The 64th edition of the championship series was played between June 3  और जून  17 , was broadcast on ABC , and was watched by an average of 18.1 million people .
The Celtics  अर्जित उनके berth into the  playoffs by winning the Atlantic Division .
The Lakers won  the प्रशांत प्रभाग  to earn their berth .
The Celtics reached the NBA Finals by defeating the Miami Heat in the best-of-seven Eastern Conference First Round , the Cleveland Cavaliers in the best-of-seven Eastern Conference Semifinals , and defending Eastern conference  चैंपियन ऑरलैंडो जादू in the best-of-seven पूर्वी सम्मेलन  Finals .
The Lakers reached  the एनबीए फाइनल by defeating the ओक्लाहोमा नगर थंडर in the best-of-seven पश्चिमी सम्मेलन पहला गोलाकार , the यूटा  Jazz in the best-of-seven Western Conference Semifinals , and the Phoenix Suns in the best-of-seven Western Conference Finals .
The NBA Finals were scheduled in the Major League Baseball World Series 2–3–2 seven game format , with the Lakers possessing  home-court लाभ as a बदला लिये finishing साथ बेहतर नियमित  season record than the Celtics .
Repeated baskets from starters Kobe Bryant ,  pau gasol , और रॉन artest brought the लेकर्स बंद  to victory in Game 1 .
A record breaking  प्रदर्शन इससे रे एलन 's आठ three-point  baskets ensured the Celtics a Game 2 triumph .
Derek Fisher ’s 11 points in the fourth quarter helped  the लेकर्स जीत खेल  3 .
The Celtics won Game 4 ; it did n't hurt that they netted an excellent performance in baskets by the team’s reserves , while  पॉल पियर्स led the टोली to a खेल 5 जीत साथ 27 अंक on 57 % शूटिंग  from the floor .
The Lakers avoided elimination by winning a decisive  खेल 6 साथ 24 अंक contributed by उनके बेंच  .
Although  वे trailed the सेल्टिक्स by 13 अंक जल्दी in the तीसरा क्वार्टर , the लेकर्स rallied और जीती उनके दूसरी लगातार चैंपियनशिप  by taking over an exciting Game 7 aided by late contributions on offense by Pau Gasol and Artest and rebounding .
Bryant was named Most Valuable Player of the  फाइनल लिये उसके दूसरी लगातार  trophy .
This was the first NBA Finals to go the full seven games since and only  the चौथी चूंकि the एनबीए फाइनल लौटे to a  2–3–2 format in .
The Laker franchise has 16 NBA Championships ( Five in  मिनियापोलिस , 11 in लॉस एंजिल्स ) trailing the सेल्टिक्स ' सत्रह  championships .
The NBA Finals used the `` World Series '' Format in 1949 Minneapolis Lakers defeated the Washington Capitols  4 खेल to 2 ; in 1953 मिनियापोलिस पराजित the नई यॉर्क knicks 4 खेल to 1 ; in 1954 मिनियापोलिस  defeated the Syracuse Nationals 4 games to 3 ; and in 1955 Syracuse Nationals defeated the Fort Wayne Pistons 4 games to 3 .
The NBA  होता वापसी to the 2–2–1–1–1 नेशनल  Hockey League seven game series format until 1985 .
Black pepper ( Piper nigrum ) is a flowering vine in the  परिवार piperaceae , cultivated लिये इसके  fruit , which is usually dried and used as a spice and seasoning .
The fruit , known as a peppercorn when dried , is approximately in diameter , dark red  जब fully वयस्क , और , जैसे सब drupes , contains  a single seed .
Peppercorns , and the ground pepper derived from them , may be  वर्णित बस as pepper , or अधिक precisely as ब्लैक  pepper ( cooked and dried unripe fruit ) , green pepper ( dried unripe fruit ) and white pepper ( dried ripe seeds ) .
Black  pepper is देशी to दक्षिण इण्डिया , और is extensively  cultivated there and elsewhere in tropical regions .
Currently Vietnam is the world  's largest निर्माता और निर्यातक of pepper , producing  34 % of the world 's Piper nigrum crop as of 2008 .
Dried ground pepper  रै महरूम प्रयुक्त चूंकि प्राचीनता  for both its flavour and as a medicine .
Black pepper is the world 's  सबसे traded मसाला  .
It is one of the most common spices added to  यूरोपीय भोजन  and its descendants .
The spiciness of black pepper is due to the chemical  piperine , नहीं to be उलझन साथ the capsaicin  that gives fleshy peppers theirs .
It is in  the आधुनिक संसार  , often paired with salt .
In cardiovascular physiology , ejection fraction ( EF ) represents the volumetric fraction of  रक्त उत्तेजित आउट of the ventricle ( दिल ) साथ प्रत्येक दिल ताल  or cardiac cycle .
It can be applied  to either the सही ventricle जिससे  ejects via the pulmonary valve into the pulmonary circulation or the left ventricle which ejects via the aortic valve into the systemic circulation .
Imaging of the physiology of the  mammalian दिल  is the art that allows meaningful mathematical expression defining EF .
noninvasive हृदय इमेजिंग रै become a विश्वव्यापी  utility enabling study of cardiac performance reproducibly and inexpensively .
Simplified , Ejection fraction is a mathematical  उत्पाद अनुमत by हृदय  imaging .
As a  गणितीय पद , ejection भिन्न is an एक्सटेंशन  of the work of Adolph Fick in cardiac output .
Dedicated technology such as Echocardiography , Computed Tomography , Magnetic Resonance Imaging and MUGA  स्कैनिंग have definitively अनुमत clinically प्रासंगिक गणित regarding ischemia , जन्मजात दिल  Disease and Heart Failure .
The prosecutor is the chief legal representative of the prosecution in countries with either  the आम विधि adversarial प्रणाली , or the सिविल विधि inquisitorial  system .
The prosecution is the legal party responsible for  पेश the मामला in a दण्ड विचारण  against an individual accused of breaking the law .
Strawberry shortcake  सबसे commonly अर्थात् a मिठाई in the shortcake  family of cakes .
Strawberry shortcake  may भी refer to:
स्ट्रॉबेरी shortcake , a अक्षर  and franchise created by American Greetings
The shortened title  of स्ट्रॉबेरी on the shortcake  , a Japanese romance movie .
Abū al-Qāsim Muḥammad ibn ʿAbd Allāh ibn ʿAbd al-Muṭṭalib ibn Hāshim ( ) ( circa| 570 – circa| 8 June 632 ) , also transliterated as Muhammad ( ) , was a religious ,  राजनैतिक , और सैन्य नेता इससे मक्का जो एकीकृत अरब into a सिंगल धार्मिक polity अंतर्गत islam  .
He is believed by Muslims and Bahá'ís to be a messenger  और नबी of परमेश्वर  .
Muhammad is almost  universally माना by मुसलमान as the पिछला नबी  sent by God for mankind .
Non-Muslims regard  मुहम्मद as the संस्थापक  of Islam .
Muslims consider him to be the restorer of an unaltered original monotheistic faith of  आदम , नूह , अब्राहम , मूसा , यीशु , और अन्य नबियों  .
Born in about 570 CE in the Arabian city of Mecca , he was orphaned  at an जल्दी आयु और brought up अंतर्गत the परवाह of उसके ताऊ  Abu Talib .
He later worked mostly as a merchant , as well  as a गड़रिये , और थी पहला शादीशुदा by आयु 25  .
Being in the habit of periodically  retreating to a गुफा in the surrounding kyu लिये अनेक नाइट्स of seclusion और दुआ , he बाद reported  that it was there , at age 40 , that he received his first revelation from God .
Three years after this event Muhammad started preaching these revelations publicly ,  proclaiming कि `` परमेश्वर is एक `` , कि पूरा `` आत्मसमर्पण '' to  Him ( lit .
islām ) is the only way ( dīn )  स्वीकार्य to परमेश्वर , और कि he खुद  was a prophet and messenger of God , in the same vein as other Islamic prophets .
Muhammad gained few followers early on , and was  मिले साथ दुश्मनी इससे कुछ meccan जनजातियों ; he और उसके अनुसरणकर्ता  were treated harshly .
To escape persecution , Muhammad sent some of his followers to Abyssinia before he and his  अनुसरणकर्ता in मक्का migrated to मदीना ( तब ज्ञात as yathrib ) in the साल  622 .
This event  , the हिज्र , marks the शुरूआत  of the Islamic calendar , which is also known as the Hijri Calendar .
In Medina , Muhammad united the tribes  अंतर्गत the संविधान of मदीना  .
After eight years of fighting with the Meccan tribes  , उसके अनुसरणकर्ता , जो by तब था grown to 10,000 , took  control of Mecca in the largely peaceful Conquest of Mecca .
He destroyed the pagan idols in the city and then sent his  अनुसरणकर्ता आउट to नष्ट सब of the बाकी pagan मंदिरों  in Eastern Arabia .
In 632 , a few months after  returning to मदीना  from The Farewell Pilgrimage , Muhammad fell ill and died .
By the time  of उसके मौत , सबसे of the arabian प्रायद्वीप था परिवर्तित  to Islam , and he had united Arabia into a single Muslim religious polity .
The  खुलासे  ( or Ayah , lit .
`` Signs [ of God ] '' ) — which Muhammad reported receiving until his death – form the verses of the Quran , regarded by Muslims  as the `` शब्द of परमेश्वर '' और around जिससे the धर्म  is based .
Besides the Quran ,  मुहम्मद 's जीवन ( सिरा ) और परंपराओं  ( sunnah ) are also upheld by Muslims as the sources of sharia law .
They discuss Muhammad and other prophets of Islam with reverence , adding the phrase peace be  upon उसे whenever उनके names हैं उल्लेखित  .
While conceptions  of मुहम्मद in मध्यकालीन christendom और premodern टाइम्स यहूद  largely negative , appraisals in modern history have been far less so .
The Great   Books ( second edition )
Great Books of the Western World is a series of books originally  प्रकाशित in the संयुक्त राज्य in 1952 by ब्रिटैनिका विश्वकोष  Inc. to present the Great Books in a single package of 54 volumes .
The series is now  in इसके दूसरी संस्करण और contains  60 volumes .
The original editors of the series chose three criteria for inclusion : a book must be relevant to contemporary issues , and not only  महत्वपूर्ण in इसके ऐतिहासिक कॉन्टेक्स्ट ; it जरूर बदला rereading ; और it जरूर be a  part of `` the great conversation about the great ideas , '' relevant to at least 25 of the 102 great ideas identified by the editors .
Books were not chosen on the  आधार of जातीय or सांस्कृतिक inclusiveness , ऐतिहासिक  influence , or the editors ' agreement with the views expressed .
`` Cocaine '' is a song written and  अंकित by jj cale in 1976 , लकिन भी  known as a cover version recorded by Eric Clapton .
Allmusic calls the latter `` among [ Clapton 's ] most enduringly popular hits '' and notes that `` even for an artist  जैसे क्लैप्टन साथ a विशाल देह of high-quality कार्य , 'cocaine ' बाँधने among  his best . ''
Glyn Johns , who had previously worked with The Who , Led Zeppelin and The Rolling Stones , produced the Clapton recording ,  जिससे थी released on क्लैप्टन 's 1977 एल्बम slowhand और as a सिंगल in 1980  .
The live version of `` Cocaine '' , from the Just One Night album recorded in Tokyo , charted on the Billboard Hot 100 as the  b-side of `` तुलसा समय `` , जिससे थी a  No . 30 hit in 1980. ``
Cocaine '' was one  of अनेक of cale 's गीतों अंकित by क्लैप्टन , सहित  `` After Midnight `` and `` Travelin ' Light '' .
The attack on  पर्ल हार्बर ( पुकारा हवाई आपरेशन or आपरेशन ai by the जापानी इम्पीरियल सामान्य मुख्यालय ( आपरेशन  Z in planning ) and the Battle of Pearl Harbor ) was a surprise military strike conducted by the Imperial Japanese Navy against the United States naval base at Pearl Harbor , Hawaii , on the morning of December 7 , 1941 ( December 8 in Japan ) .
From the standpoint of the defenders , the attack  commenced at 7:48 a.m. हवाई समय .
The attack was intended as a preventive  कार्रवाई in अनुक्रम to रखना the u.S. प्रशांत बेड़े इससे दखल साथ सैन्य क्रियाएँ  the Empire of Japan was planning in Southeast Asia against overseas territories of the United Kingdom , the Netherlands , and the United States .
the आधार थी attacked by 353 जापानी  fighters , bombers and torpedo planes in two waves , launched from six aircraft carriers .
सब आठ u.S. नेवी battleships  were damaged , with four being sunk .
Two of these were later raised , and with the  बाकी चार repaired , छह battleships लौटे  to service later in the war .
The Japanese also sank or damaged three cruisers , three destroyers , an  anti-aircraft प्रशिक्षण जलयान  , and one minelayer .
188 U.S. aircraft were destroyed  ; 2,402 अमेरिकी यहूद मारे  and 1,282 wounded .
Important base installations such as the power station , shipyard , maintenance , and fuel and torpedo  भंडार सुविधाएं , as खूब as the पनडुब्बी पियर और मुख्यालय भवन  ( also home of the intelligence section ) were not attacked .
Japanese losses were light : 29 aircraft and five midget submarines lost , and  65 servicemen मारे or wounded  .
One Japanese  नाविक थी  captured .
The attack came as a profound shock to the American people and led directly to the American entry into  संसार युद्ध ii in दोनो the प्रशांत और यूरोपीय थिएटर  .
The following  दिन ( दिसम्बर 8 ) ,  the United States declared war on Japan .
Domestic support for  non-interventionism , जिससे था महरूम दमदार  , disappeared .
clandestine support of ब्रिटेन ( लिये उदाहरण  the Neutrality Patrol ) was replaced by active alliance .
subsequent परिचालन by the u.S. prompted जर्मनी और इटली to घोषित युद्ध on the  U.S. on December 11 , which was reciprocated by the U.S. the same day .
There were numerous  ऐतिहासिक precedents लिये unannounced सैन्य  action by Japan .
However , the lack of any formal warning , particularly while  negotiations यहूद स्टिल जाहिर जारी , led अध्यक्ष फ्रैंकलिन D. रूज़वेल्ट  to proclaim December 7 , 1941 , `` a date which will live in infamy `` .
Project Runway Season 2 was the second season of Bravo 's  कामयाब प्रोजेक्ट रनवे , a वास्तविकता  competition for fashion designers .
Season 2 began  airing on दिसम्बर  7 , 2005 .
Following a nationwide search earlier in the year , sixteen  designers यहूद चुनी as semi-finalists और  brought to New York City in June , 2005 .
After the first challenge , called `` Road To The  रनवे '' , चौदह गई on  to compete as finalists .
The winning designer , Chloe Dao , received $ 100,000 in seed money to help launch her own line , a 2007 Saturn Sky  roadster , a स्प्रेड in elle पत्रिका , और a mentorship साथ the banana गणतंत्र डिज़ाइन टोली  .
Winning  alongside dao थी उसके मॉडल , अनुग्रह kelsey , जो  received the ELLE Magazine spread .
Michael Kors and Nina Garcia  लौटे as न्यायाधीशों लिये the दूसरी  season .
The fourth judging seat rotated each  सप्ताह , आधारित on the चुनौती  .
Tim Gunn , fashion chair at  पार्सन्स the नई स्कूल  for Design , returned as a mentor for the designers .
Kara Janx later  appeared in प्रोजेक्ट रनवे : सब सितारों in 2012  , where she finished 7th out of 13 .
Andrae Gonzalo , in the  वही साल , competed in the दूसरी ऋतु of the सब  Stars edition placing 10th out of 13 .
An example of  a heraclius  mule
In numismatics , a mule is a coin or medal minted with  obverse और रिवर्स डिजाइन नहीं  normally seen on the same piece .
These can be intentional or  उत्पादित by गलती  .
This type of error is highly  sought बाद , और उदाहरण can लाने  steep prices from collectors .
The earliest mules are found among ancient  यूनानी और रोमन सिक्के  .
Opinion is divided between those who think that they are accidental , the  परिणाम of an गलत संयोजन of a नई die साथ एक कि था officially  been withdrawn from use , or the work of coiners working with dies stolen from an official mint , perhaps at a time when one of them should have been destroyed .
The name derives from the mule , the hybrid offspring of a  घोड़ा और a गधा , due to ऐसे a सिक्का having दो पहलू intended लिये अलग  coins , much as a mule has parents of two different species .
This page documents the  tornadoes और बवंडर outbreaks  of 2010 .
the बहुमत of tornadoes  form in the U.S. , but they can occur almost anywhere under the right conditions .
A lesser  क्रमांक occur बाहर the u.S. , सबसे notably in भाग of neighboring दक्षिणी कनाडा  during the Northern Hemisphere 's summer season , but are also known in South America , Europe , Asia , and Australia .
There were 1,531 tornadoes reported in the United  राज्य in 2010 ( of जिससे at तनिक  1,266 were confirmed ) , with 45 confirmed fatalities .
Elsewhere in the world  , 11 लोगों यहूद मारे in tornadoes , छह in अर्जेंटीना , तीन  in the Bahamas , one in Bangladesh , and one in Germany .
The year was near average for tornadoes despite an extremely quiet early  वसन्त काल , however ऐसे बदला बाद a विशाल  upswing starting in late April and a busy late spring and summer period .
The autumn  महीने यहूद थोड़ा  above average .
A  lymphocyte is a प्रकार of श्वेत रक्त  cell in the vertebrate immune system .
Under the microscope ,  lymphocytes can be विभाजित into विशाल lymphocytes  and small lymphocytes .
Large granular lymphocytes include  प्राकृतिक कातिल कोशिकाएं ( nk  cells ) .
Small lymphocytes consist of T  कोशिकाएं और b कोशिकाएं  .
Windows PowerShell is  microsoft 's कार्य स्वचालन फ्रेमवर्क , consisting  of a command-line shell and associated scripting language built on .NET Framework .
PowerShell provides full access to COM and WMI , enabling  प्रशासकों to perform प्रशासनिक कार्य on दोनो लोकल  and remote Windows systems .
In PowerShell ,  प्रशासनिक कार्य हैं generally performed by cmdlets ( सुनाया command-lets  ) , which are specialized .NET classes implementing a particular operation .
Sets of cmdlets may be combined together in scripts , executables ( which  हैं स्टैंडअलोन अनुप्रयोग ) , or by instantiating  regular .NET classes ( or WMI/COM Objects ) .
These work by accessing data in different data stores , like the filesystem or registry , which are made  उपलब्धियाँ to the powershell runtime  via Windows PowerShell providers .
Windows  powershell भी provides a होस्टिंग api साथ  which the Windows PowerShell runtime can be embedded inside other applications .
These applications  can तब उपयोग खिड़कियाँ powershell कार्यक्षमता  to implement certain operations , including those exposed via the graphical interface .
This capability has been used by Microsoft Exchange Server 2007 to expose its management functionality as PowerShell  cmdlets और प्रदाताओं और implement the आलेखीय प्रबन्धन टूल्स as powershell होस्ट जिससे invoke  the necessary cmdlets .
Other Microsoft  अनुप्रयोग सहित microsoft एसक्यूएल सर्वर 2008 भी  expose their management interface via PowerShell cmdlets .
With PowerShell  , आलेखीय interface-based प्रबन्धन अनुप्रयोग  on Windows are layered on top of Windows PowerShell .
A PowerShell scripting interface for Windows  उत्पाद is mandated by the  Common Engineering Criteria .
खिड़कियाँ powershell शामिल इसके अपना extensive , console-based  help , similar to man pages in Unix shells , via the Get-Help cmdlet .
Mary Poppins is a 1964 musical film starring Julie Andrews , Dick Van  dyke , दाउद tomlinson , और glynis जॉन्स , उत्पादित by वॉल्ट  Disney , and based on the Mary Poppins books series by P. L. Travers .
The film was directed by Robert Stevenson  और लिखा by विधेयक वाल्श और डॉन dagradi , साथ गीतों  by the Sherman Brothers .
It was shot at Walt  डिज़्नी studios in burbank  , California .
Julie Andrews won the Academy Award for Best Actress for her performance as Mary Poppins and the film also won Oscars for Best Film  संपादन , असली म्यूज़िक स्कोर , बेहतरीन सोंग लिये `` chim chim  Cher-ee '' and Best Visual Effects , and received a total of 13 nominations .
a स्टोरी चाप is an विस्तारित or continuing कथानक  in episodic storytelling media such as television , comic books , comic strips , boardgames , video games , and in some cases , films .
On a television program , for example , the story would unfold  over अनेक एपीसोड  .
In television , the use of the  स्टोरी चाप is much अधिक आम in dramas  than in comedies , especially in soap operas .
Webcomics are more likely to use story arcs than newspaper comics , as most web comics have readable archives online  कि a newcomer to the स्ट्रिप can पढ़ा in अनुक्रम to समझे  what is going on .
Although story arcs  have existed लिये दशकों , the पद `` स्टोरी चाप '' थी  coined in 1988 in relation to the television series Wiseguy , and was quickly adapted for other uses .
Many  अमरीकी कॉमिक किताब श्रेणी हैं  now written in four or six-issue arcs , within a continuing series .
Short story arcs are easier to package as  व्यापार paperbacks लिये पुनर्विक्रय , और अधिक accessible  to the casual reader than the never-ending continuity that once characterised comics .
Black Friday is the day following Thanksgiving Day  in the संयुक्त राज्य , प्रायः regarded as the शुरूआत of  the Christmas shopping season .
In recent years , most major retailers have opened extremely early and offered  promotional बिक्री to लात बंद the अवकाश खरीदारी ऋतु , समान  to Boxing Day sales in many Commonwealth Nations .
Black Friday is not an official  पब्लिक अवकाश as ऐसे , लकिन अनेक  non-retail employees and schools have both Thanksgiving and the day after off , followed by a weekend , thereby increasing the number of potential shoppers .
It has routinely been the busiest shopping day of the year since 2005 , although news reports , which at  कि समय यहूद inaccurate , have वर्णित it as the व्यस्ततम खरीदारी दिन of  the year for a much longer period of time .
The day 's name  originated in फिलाडेल्फिया , जहाँ it originally थी प्रयुक्त to describe the  heavy and disruptive pedestrian and vehicle traffic which would occur on the day after Thanksgiving .
Use of the term started  पहले 1961 और began to देखिए broader  use outside Philadelphia around 1975 .
Later an alternative explanation began to be offered  : कि `` ब्लैक शुक्रवार '' indicates the पाइंट  at which retailers begin to turn a profit , or are `` '' .
For many years , it  थी आम लिये रिटेलर to खोलें  at 6:00 a.m. , but in the late 2000s many had crept to 5:00 or even 4:00 .
This was taken to  a नई चरम in 2011 , जब अनेक रिटेलर ( सहित  Target , Kohl 's , Macy 's , Best Buy , and Bealls ) opened at midnight for the first time .
In 2012 ,  walmart और अनेक अन्य रिटेलर घोषित कि वे होता खोलें सबसे of उनके स्टोर्स at 8:00  p.m. on Thanksgiving Day ( except in states where opening on Thanksgiving is prohibited due to blue laws , such as Massachusetts where they still opened around midnight ) , prompting calls for a walkout among some workers .
Black Friday shopping is known for attracting aggressive crowds , with  सालाना रिपोर्ट्स of assaults , shootings , और throngs of लोगों trampling  on other shoppers in an attempt to get the best deal on a product before supplies run out .
The Family That Preys is a 2008 American movie  नाटक लिखा , उत्पादित , और  directed by Tyler Perry .
The screenplay focuses on two families , one  धनवान और the अन्य working क्लास , जिनकी जीवनदान हैं  intertwined in both love and business .
The movie is the second of four in which Perry 's  हस्ताक्षर अक्षर , madea , करता नहीं मेक  an appearance .
It is also the second  perry-directed फिल्मी ( alongside पापा  's Little Girls ) that is not based on any of the filmmaker 's stage plays .
Net 10 , Net 15 , Net 30 and Net 60 ( also Net 10  दिनों , et al ) हैं फ़ॉर्म of व्यापार क्रेडिट जिससे बताएँ कि the जाल राशि ( the कुल बकाया on the चालान  ) is expected to be paid in full and received by the seller within 10 , 15 , 30 or 60 days after the goods are dispatched or service is completed .
Net 30 or Net 60  शर्तें हैं प्रायः coupled  with a credit for early payment .
The word net  in इस भाव अर्थात्  `` total after all discounts . ''
It originally derives from the Latin nitere ( to shine ) and nitidus ( elegant  , trim ) , और अधिक recently इससे the फ्रेंच जाल ( शार्प  , neat , clean ) .
roadtown  , Tortola
The British  वेस्ट इंडीज यहूद the आइलैंड्स in  and around the Caribbean that were part of the British Empire .
In 1912  , the अंग्रेजों वेस्ट इंडीज यहूद विभाजित into आठ colonies : the  Bahamas , Barbados , British Guiana , British Honduras , Jamaica ( with its dependencies the Turks and Caicos Islands and the Cayman Islands ) , Trinidad and Tobago , the Windward Islands and the Leeward Islands .
Between 1958 and 1962 , all of the island territories except the British Virgin Islands , the  बहामा , अंग्रेजों होंडुरास और अंग्रेजों guiana यहूद संगठित into the  West Indies Federation .
It was hoped that  the संघ होता become स्वतंत्र as a सिंगल  nation , but it had limited powers , many practical problems , and a lack of popular support .
नतीजतन , the वेस्ट इंडीज  Federation was dissolved .
Most of the territories , including all the larger ones , are now independent as separate countries , with membership to many international forums such as the Organization of American States , the Association of Caribbean States , the World Trade  संगठन , the संयुक्त राष्ट्र , the caribbean जातियाँ , the राष्ट्रमंडल of राष्ट्र और the caribbean विकास बैंको among  others .
The  शेष हैं अंग्रेजों  overseas territories .
All the former nations  of the अंग्रेजों वेस्ट इंडीज , मगर the राष्ट्रमंडल  of Dominica , Guyana and Trinidad and Tobago , are Commonwealth Realms .
The term is still used for British Overseas Territories in the  caribbean , ऐसे as the केमन आइलैंड्स  .
The  बाकी अंग्रेजों  West Indies
`` What a  अद्भुत संसार '' is a सोंग लिखा by bob  Thiele ( as `` George Douglas '' ) and George David Weiss .
It was first recorded by Louis Armstrong and  released as a सिंगल in  1967 .
Thiele and Weiss were both prominent in the music world (  thiele as a निर्माता और वेइस as a composer/performer  ) .
Armstrong 's recording was inducted in  the ग्रैमी हॉल of कीर्ति in  1999 .
The publishing for  इस सोंग is नियंत्रित by मेमोरी लेन म्यूज़िक  Group , Carlin Music Corp. , and Bug Music , Inc .
उद्घाटन दिन 2009 on the वेस्ट कदम  of the U.S. Capitol .
President George W. Bush and  पहला महिला लौरा बुश सीसे the inaugural परेड  down Pennsylvania Avenue to the White House , 2005
The inauguration of the president of the United States is a ceremonial event marking the  शुरुआत of a नई four-year पद of  a president of the United States .
The day a  अध्यक्षीय उद्घाटन occurs is ज्ञात as `` उद्घाटन दिन  '' and occurs on January 20 ( or 21st if the 20th is a Sunday ) .
( Prior to the Twentieth Amendment , the date was March 4 , the day  of the साल on जिससे the संविधान of the संयुक्त राज्य पहला took प्रभाव in 1789 ; the पिछला उद्घाटन to लो प्लेस on the पुरानी तिथि  was Franklin D. Roosevelt 's first one on March 4 , 1933 . )
The most recent public presidential inauguration ceremony , the swearing in of President Barack Obama to begin his second four-year term in office , took  प्लेस on सोमवार , जनवरी 21 , 2013  .
The only inauguration element mandated by the United States Constitution is that  the अध्यक्ष मेक an शपथ or प्रतिज्ञान पहले कि व्यक्ति can `` डालें on the  Execution '' of the office of the presidency .
However , over the years , various traditions have arisen that  have विस्तारित the उद्घाटन इससे a सरल oath-taking रस्म to a day-long  event , including parades , speeches , and balls .
इससे the प्रेसिडेंसी of एंड्रयू जैक्सन through  that of Jimmy Carter , the primary Inauguration Day ceremony took place on the Capitol 's East Portico .
Since the 1981 inauguration of Ronald Reagan , the ceremony has been  आयोजित at the कैपिटल  's West Front .
the inaugurations  of William Howard Taft in 1909 and Reagan in 1985 were moved indoors at the Capitol due to cold weather .
the युद्ध of 1812 और संसार युद्ध ii caused दो  inaugurations to be held at other locations in Washington , D.C .
When George Washington was inaugurated , the oath was administered by Robert Livingston , Chancellor of New York State , in 1789 , and by William  cushing , संबद्ध इंसाफ of  the Supreme Court , in 1793 .
Since Chief Justice Oliver Ellsworth swore in President  जॉन एडम्स , no मुख्य इंसाफ रै  missed an Inauguration Day .
When Inauguration Day has fallen on a Sunday ,  the मुख्य इंसाफ रै administered the शपथ to the अध्यक्ष  on the Sunday privately and then again the next day publicly .
When a new president takes over mid-term due to the death or resignation of a president , the oath of office  is administered लकिन औपचारिक , पब्लिक उद्घाटन  events have not been held .
Stefani Joanne  एंजेलीना germanotta ( ; born कूच 28 , 1986 ) , ज्ञात by उसके स्टेज  name Lady Gaga , is an American singer , songwriter , record producer , dancer , activist , businesswoman , fashion designer , actress and philanthropist .
Born and  उठाया in नई यॉर्क नगर , वो primarily पढ़ाई at the कान्वेंट of the पवित्र दिल  and briefly attended New York University 's Tisch School of the Arts before withdrawing to focus on her musical career .
She soon began performing in the rock  म्यूज़िक झाँकी of मैनहटन  's Lower East Side .
By the  समाप्त of 2007 , रिकार्ड कार्यपालिका और निर्माता  Vincent Herbert signed her to his label Streamline Records , an imprint of Interscope Records .
Initially working as a songwriter at Interscope Records , her vocal abilities captured the attention of recording artist Akon , who  भी हस्ताक्षरित उसके to kon सजीव वितरण , उसके अपना लेबल अंतर्गत interscope  .
Lady Gaga came to  prominence as a रिकॉर्डिंग कलाकार following the रिलीज of उसके डेब्यू एल्बम , the कीर्ति ( 2008 ) , जिससे थी a नाजुक और वाणिज्यिक  success that topped charts around the world and included the international number-one singles `` Just Dance `` and `` Poker Face `` .
After  embarking on the the कीर्ति बॉल दौरे , वो followed the एल्बम  with The Fame Monster ( 2009 ) , which spawned the worldwide hit singles `` Bad Romance `` , `` Telephone `` , and `` Alejandro `` .
The Fame Monsters success allowed her to embark on the eighteen-month  long दानव बॉल दौरे , जिससे बाद became एक of the highest-grossing कॉन्सर्ट टुर  of all time .
Her most recent  एल्बम , born इस रास्ता ( 2011  ) , topped the charts of most major markets and generated more international chart-topping singles , including `` Born This Way `` , `` Judas `` , and `` The Edge of Glory `` .
Influenced by Britney  स्पीयर्स , दाउद बोवी , माइकल जैक्सन , मैडोना , और महारानी , महिला  Gaga is recognized for her flamboyant , diverse and outré contributions to the music industry through her fashion , performances and music videos .
As of October 2011 , she has sold an estimated 23 million  एल्बम और 64 लाख singles विश्वव्यापी  and her singles are some of the best-selling worldwide .
Her  उपलब्धियाँ शामिल पाँच ग्रैमी पुरस्कार  and 13 MTV Video Music Awards .
Lady Gaga has consecutively appeared on Billboard magazine 's Artists of the Year ( scoring the definitive title in 2010 ) , ranked fourth in VH1 's list of 100 Greatest Women in Music , is  the छठे बेहतरीन selling डिजिटल singles कलाकार in us according to riaa , is regularly लगाई on  lists composed by Forbes magazine and was named one of the most influential people in the world by Time magazine .
besides उसके musical करियर , वो involves  herself with humanitarian causes and LGBT activism .
McKethan Stadium home  of घड़ियाल बेसबॉल
A  चित्र of the 1924  Baseball team
The Florida Gators baseball team  represents the विश्वविद्यालयों  of Florida in the sport of baseball .
The Florida Gators compete in  प्रभाग i of the नेशनल कॉलेजिएट एथलेटिक्स संघ ( ncaa ) , और the पूर्वी  Division of the Southeastern Conference ( SEC ) .
They play their home games in Alfred A. McKethan  स्टेडियम on the विश्वविद्यालयों  's Gainesville , Florida campus , and are currently led by head coach Kevin O'Sullivan .
In the ninety-eight season history of the  gators बेसबॉल कार्यक्रम , the टोली रै जीती बारह  SEC championships and has appeared in eight College World Series tournaments .
``  electioneering  '' redirects here .
For the  radiohead सोंग  , see OK Computer .
Presidential campaign button  लिये अब्राहम lincoln , 1860  .
The reverse side of the button shows a  पोर्ट्रेट of उसके कार्यशील mate hannibal  Hamlin .
A political campaign is an organized effort which seeks to influence the  निर्णय बनाना प्रक्रम भीतर a विशिष्ट समूह .
In democracies , political  अभियान प्रायः refer to चुनावी अभियान  , wherein representatives are chosen or referendums are decided .
In modern politics , the most high profile political campaigns are focused on candidates for head of  राज्य or सिर of सरकारी , प्रायः a अध्यक्ष or  Prime Minister .
Elizabeth Cady Stanton and her  बेटी , harriot
Elizabeth Cady Stanton ( November 12 , 1815 – October 26 , 1902 ) was an  अमरीकी सोशल activist , abolitionist , और अग्रणी फिगर of the जल्दी महिलाओं 's अधिकारों  movement .
Her Declaration of Sentiments , presented at the first women 's rights convention held in 1848 in Seneca Falls , New York , is often credited with initiating the first  व्यवस्थित महिलाओं 's अधिकारों और महिलाओं 's suffrage आंदोलनों in the संयुक्त राज्य .
Before Stanton narrowed her political focus almost  exclusively to महिलाओं 's अधिकारों , वो थी  an active abolitionist together with her husband , Henry Brewster Stanton and cousin , Gerrit Smith .
नापसंद अनेक of those शामिल in the महिलाओं 's अधिकारों गति  , Stanton addressed various issues pertaining to women beyond voting rights .
Her concerns included women 's parental and custody rights , property rights , employment and income rights , divorce , the economic health  of the परिवार , और जनम कंट्रोल .
She was also an outspoken supporter of  the 19th-century temperance गति  .
After the American Civil War , Stanton 's commitment to female suffrage caused a schism in the women 's rights movement when she , together  साथ सुसान B. एंथोनी , अस्वीकृत to support ड्योढ़ी of the fourteenth और पंद्रहवीं amendments to the  United States Constitution .
She  opposed giving added विधिक सुरक्षा और मतदान अधिकारों  to African American men while women , black and white , were denied those same rights .
Her position on this  समस्या , साथ साथ उसके विचार on व्यवस्थित christianity और महिलाओं 's मुद्दे परे मतदान अधिकारों , led to the गठन of  two separate women 's rights organizations that were finally rejoined , with Stanton as president of the joint organization , approximately twenty years after her break from the original women 's suffrage movement .
Stanton died in 1902 having  authored दोनो the स्त्री 's बाइबल और उसके आत्मकथा , साथ साथ अनेक आलेख  and pamphlets concerning female suffrage and women 's rights .
My Fair Lady is a musical based upon George Bernard  शॉ 's pygmalion और साथ किताब और गीत  by Alan Jay Lerner and music by Frederick Loewe .
The  स्टोरी चिंताएं eliza doolittle , a काकनी पुष्प लड़की  who takes speech lessons from professor Henry Higgins , a phoneticist , so that she may pass as a well-born lady .
The musical 's 1956 Broadway production was a hit , setting what was then the record for the longest run of any major musical  थिएटर उत्पादन in  history .
It was followed by a  hit लंदन उत्पादन , a लोकप्रिय फिल्मी  version , and numerous revivals .
it रै महरूम पुकारा  `` the perfect musical '' .
Deregulation is the act or process of removing or  reducing राज्य regulations  .
It is therefore opposite of regulation , which   refers to the process of the government regulating certain activities .
The Boston Bruins Radio Network is a 25-station ( 17 A.M. , 8 F.M . plus 2 F.M . translators ) CBS Radio  संजाल जिससे carries सजीव खेल प्रसारण of the बोस्टन  Bruins .
The network 's flagship station is WBZ-FM /98.5-  बोस्टन , मैसाचुसेट्स  .
Dave Goucher announces  play-by-play  .
Bob Beers provides  रंग commentary  .
This article is about  the छोटी स्टोरी  .
For  the कविता by सारा teasdale  , see There Will Come Soft Rains .
`` There Will Come Soft Rains '' is a short story by  विज्ञान fiction लेखक रे bradbury जिससे थी  first published in the May 6 , 1950 issue of Collier 's .
Later that  वही साल the स्टोरी थी शामिल  in Bradbury 's The Martian Chronicles ( 1950 ) .
With over 1.2  अरब लोगों , हान चाइनीज  is the largest ethnic group in the world .
Pashtun people of the Pashtunistan region , which sits in an area between south of the Hindu Kush in  अफगानिस्तान और the सिंधु नदी in पाकिस्तानी  .
They  क्रमांक around  50 million .
The  korowai लोगों of पापुआ गिने  just around 3,000 people , and were uncontacted until the 1970s .
Ethnicity or ethnic group is a socially defined category  आधारित on आम संस्कृति or राष्ट्रीयता  .
Ethnicity can , but does not have to , include common ancestry , appearance ,  भोजन , ड्रेसिंग स्टाइल , विरासत , इतिहास , भाषा or dialect , धर्म , प्रतीकों ,  traditions , or other cultural factor .
Ethnic identity is constantly  reinforced through आम विशेषताएँ जिससे  set the group apart from other groups .
The 19.9 MW Gemasolar solar plant in  स्पेन सुविधाएँ 15 घंटों of भंडार और can सप्लाई शक्ति  24 hours a day .
Solar energy , radiant light and heat from the sun , has been harnessed by humans since ancient times  using a दायरा of ever-evolving technologies  .
Solar energy technologies include solar heating , solar photovoltaics , solar thermal electricity , solar architecture and artificial photosynthesis , which can make considerable contributions to solving some of the most  तात्कालिक उर्जा समस्याएं the संसार  now faces .
Solar technologies are broadly characterized as either passive solar or  क्रियाशील सौर depending on the रास्ता वे  capture , convert and distribute solar energy .
Active solar techniques  शामिल the उपयोग of photovoltaic panels और  solar thermal collectors to harness the energy .
Passive solar techniques include orienting a building to the Sun ,  selecting सामग्री साथ अनुकूल थर्मल द्रव्यमान  or light dispersing properties , and designing spaces that naturally circulate air .
In 2011 , the International Energy Agency said that `` the  विकास of सस्ती , inexhaustible और साफ सौर उर्जा technologies  will have huge longer-term benefits .
It will increase countries’ energy security through reliance on an indigenous , inexhaustible and mostly  import-independent संसाधन , बढ़ाएँ स्थिरता , reduce प्रदूषण , निम्नतर the लागत  of mitigating climate change , and keep fossil fuel prices lower than otherwise .
These  लाभ  are global .
Hence the additional costs of the incentives for early deployment should be considered learning investments  ; वे जरूर be बुद्धिमानी खर्च और need to be widely  shared '' .
The classical Latin alphabet or Roman alphabet evolved from a western variety of the  यूनानी वर्णमाला पुकारा the cumaean वर्णमाला , जिससे थी अपनाया  and modified by the Etruscans who ruled early Rome .
The Etruscan alphabet was in turn adopted and further modified  by the प्राचीन romans to लिखें  the Latin language .
During the Middle Ages , the Latin  वर्णमाला थी adapted to रोमांस भाषाएं  , direct descendants of Latin , as well as to Celtic , Germanic , Baltic , and some Slavic languages .
With the age of colonialism and Christian evangelism , the Latin script was spread overseas  , और लागू to स्वदेशी अमरीकी , ऑस्ट्रेलियाई , ऑस्ट्रोनीशियाई , austroasiatic  , and African languages .
More recently , linguists have also tended to prefer the Latin script or the International Phonetic Alphabet ( itself largely based on Latin script ) when  transcribing or बनाना लिखा मानकों लिये non-european भाषाएं  , such as the African reference alphabet .
The term Latin alphabet may refer to either the alphabet used to write Latin ( as described in this article ) , or other alphabets  आधारित on the लैटिन स्क्रिप्ट , जिससे is the मौलिक नियत of अक्षर आम to the विभिन्न alphabets descended इससे the  classical Latin one , such as the English alphabet .
These Latin-derived alphabets may discard letters ,  जैसे the rotokas वर्णमाला , or add नई  letters , like the Danish and Norwegian alphabet .
Letter shapes have changed over the centuries , including the creation for Medieval Latin of lower case  फ़ॉर्म जिससे किया नहीं मौजूद in the शास्त्रीय  period .
The assassination of  संयुक्त राज्य अध्यक्ष अब्राहम lincoln took प्लेस on शुभ  Friday , April 14 , 1865 , as the American Civil War was drawing to a close .
The  हत्या occurred पाँच दिनों बाद the कमांडर of the confederate फौज of उत्तरी वर्जिनिया  , General Robert E. Lee , surrendered to Lieutenant General Ulysses S. Grant and the Union Army of the Potomac .
Lincoln was the first American president  to be assassinated , हालांकि an unsuccessful attempt था महरूम  made on Andrew Jackson 30 years before in 1835 .
The assassination was planned and carried  आउट by the well-known स्टेज कर्ता जॉन  Wilkes Booth , as part of a larger conspiracy in a bid to revive the Confederate cause .
Booth 's co-conspirators were Lewis Powell and David Herold , who were assigned to  मार सचिव of राज्य विलियम H. seward , और जार्ज atzerodt जो  was to kill Vice President Andrew Johnson .
By simultaneously  eliminating the शीर्ष तीन लोगों in the प्रशासन , बूथ और उसके co-conspirators  hoped to sever the continuity of the United States government .
Lincoln was shot while watching the play Our  अमरीकी cousin साथ उसके बीवी मरियम टॉड lincoln at घाट 's थिएटर  in Washington , D.C. on the night of April 14 , 1865 .
He died early  the अगला morning  .
The rest of the conspirators ' plot failed ; Powell only managed to wound  seward , जबकि atzerodt , जॉनसन  's would-be assassin , lost his nerve and fled Washington .
add-on might  mean:
Plug-in ( computing  ) , a टुकड़ा of तन्त्र जिससे  enhances another software application and usually can not be run independently
Browser extension , which modifies  the इंटरफ़ेस and/or बर्ताव  of web browsers
add-on ( मोज़िला ) , a टुकड़ा of तन्त्र कि  enhances and customizes Mozilla-based applications
Add-ons for Firefox ( addons.mozilla.org ) ,  the आधिकारिक मोज़िला न्यास वेब साईट जिससे serves as a repository  of add-ons for Mozilla-based applications
परिधीय , an वैकल्पिक कंप्यूटर हार्डवेयर घटक कि significantly  supplements or enhances the functionality of the original unit
Video game accessory , a piece of  हार्डवेयर प्रयुक्त in संयोजन साथ a वीडियो खेल कंसोल  for playing video games
Club level seating is a special section of  seating in आधुनिक  sports stadiums .
The Club Level is usually located towards the middle of the stage of  seating भाग , ऊपर the निम्नतर डेक लकिन  below the upper deck .
They are usually right next to the Luxury Boxes , either  सही ऊपर , सही नीचे , or sandwiched  between two levels of Luxury Boxes .
क्लबों स्तर seating  is considered as higher class than sitting anywhere else in the arena , but lower class compared to the Luxury Boxes .
Unlike the Luxury Boxes , most club  स्तर do नहीं रैप entirely around  the arena .
Some club levels stop at a certain point , giving way to an expansion of the Mezzanine , while  अन्य दे रास्ता to निम्नतर क्लास लक्ज़री बाक्स ( ऐसे  as `` Party Suites '' ) .
A notable exception to  इस is अमीरात स्टेडियम in लंदन  , which has a complete tier of club seating .
Club Levels allow fans multiple levels of  entertainment .
Club Level seating is open to the elements , as opposed to the entirely enclosed luxury boxes , which gives more of an outdoors  छाप at roofless और open-roof स्टेडियम  and arenas .
क्लबों स्तर seating is सामान्यतः खरीदा  on a contract basis to allow for maximum profit on the part of the stadium .
The Club Level provides fans with special access  to an अंदर भाग of the एरिना विशेष to प्रशंसक साथ खास टिकटें  .
These areas are air conditioned and allow  अभिगम to खास रेस्तरां , merchandise  stands , and lounge areas of the stadium that are not otherwise available .
Concession stands and vendors on the Club Level also often offer different menus  than in अन्य स्टैंड to दे अधिक of a खास महसूस to the क्लबों  .
These areas are closed off to the rest of the stadium , and they usually  can तभी be पहुँचा through  the exclusive , private club entrances .
Sophia  लोरेन ( ; born सोफिया villani scicolone  ; 20 September 1934 ) is an Italian actress .
Loren is widely recognized as Italy 's most  प्रसिद्ध और सम्मानित अभिनेत्री  .
She  थी the पहला अभिनेत्री of the talkie era to जीत an अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये  a non-English-speaking performance , for her portrayal of Cesira in Vittorio De Sica 's Two Women .
Her other awards include a Grammy Award , five  खास सुनहरी ग्लोब्स , a bafta पुरस्कार  and a Laurel Award .
In 1995 she received  the सेसिल B. demille पुरस्कार लिये आजीवन  achievements , one of many such awards .
उसके films शामिल : houseboat ( 1958 ) , el सीआईडी ( 1961 ) , कल , आज और कल  ( 1963 ) , Marriage Italian-Style ( 1964 ) , and A Special Day ( 1977 ) .
In later years she has appeared in American  blockbusters ऐसे as grumpier बूढ़ा मेन  ( 1995 ) , and Nine ( 2009 ) .
In 1994 she starred in Robert Altman 's Prêt-à-Porter , which earned her a Golden  ग्लोब नामांकन the वही साल  .
She has also achieved critical  और वाणिज्यिक  success in TV movies such as Courage ( 1986 ) .
Deaths  लिये self-inflicted चोटों  per 100,000 inhabitants in 2004 .
Incidence of suicide is  underreported due to दोनो धार्मिक और सोशल  pressures , and possibly completely unreported in some areas .
Nevertheless , from reported cases ,  निश्चित रुझान हैं apparent  .
Since the  आंकड़ा is skewed  , comparing suicide rates between nations is statistically unsound .
The trends  themselves हैं नहीं the कारण ,  but may be indicative of a root cause .
The Oprah Winfrey Leadership Academy for Girls - South Africa is a female boarding school founded in January 2007 and located in Henley on Klip near  meyerton , दक्षिण of जोहान्सबर्ग  , South Africa .
The academy was founded by Oprah Winfrey with  the लक्ष्य of providing शैक्षणिक और नेतृत्व अवसर  for academically gifted girls from impoverished backgrounds .
Oprah Winfrey Leadership  अकादमी लिये लड़कियों
Digicel is a mobile phone network  प्रदाता ऑपरेटिंग in 31 बाज़ार आरपार the  Caribbean , Central America , and Oceania regions .
The company is owned by Irishman Denis  o'brien , is incorporated in बरमूडा , और आधारित  in Jamaica .
it रै परिचय  13 million wireless users .
As of 2012 , Digicel 's markets comprise : Anguilla , Antigua and Barbuda , Aruba , Barbados , Bermuda , Bonaire , the British Virgin Islands , the Cayman  आइलैंड्स , कुराकाओ , डोमिनिकन  , El Salvador , Fiji , French Guiana , Grenada , Guadeloupe , Guyana , Haiti , Jamaica , Martinique , Nauru , Panama , Papua New Guinea , Samoa , Saint Kitts and Nevis , Saint Lucia , Saint Vincent and the Grenadines , Suriname , Tonga , Trinidad & Tobago , Turks and Caicos , and Vanuatu .
This is a list of  रिकॉर्ड of the फीफा संसार  Cup and its qualification matches .
Hospital Emergency Codes  हैं प्रयुक्त in अस्पताल विश्वव्यापी to चेतावनी स्टाफ to  various emergencies .
The use of codes is intended to convey essential  सूचना जल्दी  and with minimal misunderstanding to staff , while preventing stress and panic among visitors to the hospital .
These codes may be posted on  placards throughout the हॉस्पिटल , or मुद्रित on कर्मचारी  identification badges for ready reference .
Back of a hospital ID badge  प्रर्दशित विपत्ति  codes .
Hospital emergency codes may denote different events at  अलग अस्पताल , सहित आसपास ones  .
Because many physicians work at more than one  सुविधा , इस may सीसे to भ्रम in emergencies  , so uniform systems have been proposed .
The route of the Eifel aqueduct ,  साथ इसके औसत  slope .
The Eifel Aqueduct  थी एक of the longest  aqueducts of the Roman Empire .
The aqueduct , constructed in AD 80 , carried water some from the hilly Eifel region of what is now Germany to the ancient city of Colonia  claudia आरा agrippinensium ( present-day  Cologne ) .
If the auxiliary spurs to  अतिरिक्त स्रोतों हैं शामिल  , the length was .
The  निर्माण थी लगभग entirely नीचे मैदान , और the प्रवाह of the  water was produced entirely by gravity .
A few bridges , including one  up to in लंबाई  , were needed to pass over valleys .
नापसंद कुछ of the अन्य प्रसिद्ध रोमन aqueducts , the eifel जलसेतु थी specifically  designed to minimize the above-ground portion to protect it from damage and freezing .
In chemistry , a disulfide  बंध ( br.e . disulphide बंध ) is a covalent बंध , प्रायः  derived by the coupling of two thiol groups .
The linkage is also called an  ss-bond or disulfide सेतु  .
The overall  कनेक्टिविटी is  therefore R-S-S-R .
The terminology is  widely प्रयुक्त in biochemistry  .
In formal terms , the connection is a persulfide , in analogy to its congener , peroxide ( R-O-O-R ) , but this terminology is obscure and  is no longer प्रयुक्त ( मगर in सन्दर्भ to r-s-s-h  or H-S-S-H compounds ) .
Formal  चित्रण of disulfide  bond formation as an oxidation .
वेस्टमिंस्टर ऐबी  is used for the coronation of British monarchs
Religion in the  संयुक्त किंगडम और in the देशों कि preceded it , रै महरूम वर्चस्व ,  for over 1,400 years , by various forms of Christianity .
According to some  सर्वेक्षण , a बहुमत of नागरिकों स्टिल पहचानो साथ christianity , हालांकि नियमित गिरिजाघर उपस्थिति रै गिरे dramatically  since the middle of the 20th century , and immigration and demographic change have contributed to the growth of other faiths .
Religious affiliations of UK citizens are recorded by regular surveys ,  the चार प्रमुख ones होने the uk जनसांख्यिकी , the श्रमिक फ़ोर्स सर्वेक्षण , the अंग्रेजों सोशल attitudes सर्वेक्षण  and the European Social Survey .
According to the 2001 UK  जनसांख्यिकी , christianity is the प्रमुख धर्म , followed  by Islam , Hinduism , Sikhism , Judaism and Buddhism in terms of number of adherents .
This , and the relatively large number of individuals with nominal or no religious  संबद्धों रै led टीकाकारों to variously  describe the United Kingdom as a multi-faith , secularised , or post-Christian society .
The United Kingdom was formed by the union of previously independent countries from  1707 , और नतीजतन सबसे of the largest धार्मिक समूह do  not have UK-wide organisational structures .
While some groups have  पृथक structures लिये the व्यक्तिगत देशों of the संयुक्त किंगडम , अन्य may have a  single structure covering England and Wales or Great Britain .
Similarly , due to the relatively recent creation of Northern Ireland in 1921 , most major religious  समूह in उत्तरी आयरलैंड हैं संगठित on an all-ireland  basis .
the 1967 न्यूर्क दंगे यहूद  a major civil disturbance that occurred in the city of Newark , New Jersey between July 12 and July 17 , 1967 .
the छह दिनों of rioting , लूटने , और  destruction left 26 dead and hundreds injured .
In  संयुक्त राज्य कॉलेज एथलेटिक्स  , redshirt is a delay or suspension of an athlete 's participation in order to lengthen his or her period of eligibility .
Typically , a student 's  एथलेटिक पात्रता in a दिए खेल is चार सीज़न , a क्रमांक निकला इससे the चार सालो of  academic classes that are normally required to obtain a bachelor 's degree at an American college or university .
However , a student  खिलाड़ी may be offered the अवसर to redshirt लिये up to दो सालो , जिससे allows the खिलाड़ी  to spread those four years of eligibility over five , or sometimes six years .
In a  redshirt साल , a छात्र खिलाड़ी may attend  classes at the college or university , practice with an athletic team , and dress for play but he or she may not compete during the game .
Using this mechanism , a student athlete has up  to पाँच अकादमिक सालो to उपयोग  the four years of eligibility , thus becoming a fifth-year senior .
The term is used as  a क्रिया , संज्ञा ,  and adjective .
For example , a coach may choose to redshirt a player  जो is तब referred to as a redshirt freshman or  simply a redshirt .
The opposite of this  is a `` सच्चा freshman . ''
World War I ( WWI ) was a global  युद्ध केंद्रित in यूरोपीय कि began  on 28 July 1914 and lasted until 11 November 1918 .
It was predominantly called the World War or the Great War  इससे इसके occurrence जबतक the प्रारंभ of संसार  War II in 1939 , and the First World War or World War I thereafter .
It involved all the world 's great powers , which were assembled in two opposing alliances : the Allies ( based on the  ट्रिपल entente of the संयुक्त किंगडम , फ़्रांस और रूस ) और the सेंट्रल शक्तियां ( originally the ट्रिपल गठबंधन  of Germany , Austria-Hungary and Italy ; but , as Austria–Hungary had taken the offensive against the agreement , Italy did not enter into the war ) .
These alliances were both reorganised and expanded as more nations entered the war : Italy , Japan and  the संयुक्त राज्य joined the allies  , and the Ottoman Empire and Bulgaria the Central Powers .
Ultimately ,  अधिक than 70 लाख सैन्य कर्मियों  , including 60 million Europeans , were mobilised in one of the largest wars in history .
More than 9  लाख combatants यहूद मारे , largely क्युकी of technological advancements  that led to enormous increases in the lethality of weapons without corresponding improvements in protection or mobility .
It was the fifth- deadliest  विरोध in संसार इतिहास , subsequently paving the  way for various political changes , such as revolutions in many of the nations involved .
One of the long-term causes of the war  थी the पुनरुत्थान of साम्राज्यवाद in the विदेशी नीतियों of the ग्रेट  powers of Europe .
More immediately , the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria , the heir to the throne of Austria-Hungary , on 28 June 1914 by Yugoslav  राष्ट्रवादी gavrilo princip in साराजेवो triggered a  diplomatic crisis when Austria-Hungary subsequently delivered an ultimatum to the Kingdom of Serbia .
Several  alliances formed  over the previous decades were invoked .
Within  सप्ताह , the प्रमुख शक्तियां यहूद at  war and , via their colonies , the conflict soon spread around the world .
On 28 July , the Austro-Hungarians fired the first shots of the war  as तैयारी लिये  the invasion of Serbia .
While the Russians mobilised , the Germans invaded neutral Belgium and Luxembourg on the way to France , providing a  casus belli लिये ब्रिटेन 's घोषणा  of war against Germany .
After the German march on Paris  थी brought to a halt—the so-called  Miracle of the Marne —the Western Front settled into a static battle of attrition with a trench line that changed little until 1917 .
On the Eastern Front , the Russian  फौज थी कामयाब विरूद्ध the austro-hungarians  , but was stopped in its invasion of East Prussia by the Germans .
In November the Ottoman  साम्राज्य joined the युद्ध , खोलने up  fronts in the Caucasus , Mesopotamia and the Sinai .
Italy and Bulgaria  गई to युद्ध in 1915 और रोमानिया  in 1916 .
In Russia , the tsar 's government collapsed in  कूच 1917 और a subsequent क्रान्ति in नवम्बर  brought the Russians to terms with the Central Powers .
After a 1918  जर्मनी अप्रिय साथ the पश्चिमी सामने , the allies drove  back the Germans in a series of successful offensives and American forces began entering the trenches .
Germany , which had its own trouble with  क्रांतिकारियों , सहमत to an armistice on 11 नवम्बर  1918 .
The  युद्ध ended in विजय  for the Allies .
Events on the home fronts were as tumultuous as on the battle fronts , as the participants tried to  mobilize उनके जनशक्ति और आर्थिक संसाधन to लड़ो a कुल  war .
By the end of the war , four major imperial powers—the  जर्मनी , रूसी , austro-hungarian और उस्मानी  empires—ceased to exist .
The successor states of the former two lost a great amount of  territory , जबकि the latter दो यहूद dismantled entirely  .
The map of central Europe was redrawn  into अनेक छोटी  states .
The  लीग of राष्ट्र थी  formed in the hope of preventing another such conflict .
The European nationalism spawned by the war and the breakup of empires , the  परखना of जर्मनी 's शिकस्त और समस्याएं  with the Treaty of Versailles are agreed to be factors contributing to World War II .
Map of countries that declared themselves to be socialist states under the  marxist–leninist or माओवादी परिभाषा - कि is to कह , `` कम्युनिस्ट राज्य '' - between  1979 and 1983 .
This period marked the greatest  territorial extent of कम्युनिस्ट राज्य  .
A communist state is a state  जहाँ the अर्थात् of उत्पादन हैं collectively  owned by the society .
It has a  रूप of सरकारी characterized by single-party नियम or dominant-party नियम of a कम्युनिस्ट पार्टी ( referred as तानाशाही of the proletariat  by its proponents ) and a professed allegiance to a Leninist or Marxist–Leninist ideology as the guiding principle of the state .
Technically , `` communist state '' is a contradictio in terminis as a communist  समाज as पारिभाषित by दोनो माक्र्सवादी और anarcho-communists  is in principle stateless .
इससे इस परिप्रेक्ष्य  , the term Marxist-Leninist state is more appropriate .
Historically , a `` communist state '' referred to a system where public ownership of all or most means of production by the Communist party -run state is deemed necessary to further  the रूचि of the working क्लास ; आज , a कम्युनिस्ट राज्य can भी , लिये उदाहरण , refer to समकालीन चीन और वियतनाम , जहाँ a कम्युनिस्ट  Party-run state exists alongside a mixed economy .
According to Marxist–Leninists , the state is a tool in the  हैंड्स of the सत्ताधारी क्लास , जिससे in a समाजवादी समाज is the working क्लास  , so a socialist state is , according to Leninists , a state of the working class .
In practice , communist states do  नहीं दरअसल refer to themselves as ऐसे  .
They do this not to disguise the fact that the  सत्ताधारी पार्टी is कम्युनिस्ट , लकिन बल्कि  because they do not consider themselves to be a communist society at present .
Instead , they constitutionally identify themselves as  समाजवादी राज्य or मजदूर '  states .
The primary goal of these states , which also explains their official  नाम , is to मार्गदर्शिका उनके संबंधित देशों in the प्रक्रम of भवन समाजवादी , ultimately अग्रणी to  communism .
Communist states may have several legal political parties , but the communist party is usually granted a special or  प्रबल भूमिका in सरकारी , प्रायः by statute or  under the constitution .
Consequently , the  संस्थानों of the राज्य और of the कम्युनिस्ट पार्टी become intimately  entwined , such as in the development of parallel institutions .
In the 20th century , most  कम्युनिस्ट राज्य अपनाया नियोजित economies  .
However , there were exceptions : The Soviet Union during the 1920s and late 1980s and Yugoslavia after World War II  अनुमत सीमित बाज़ार और a उपाधि of कार्यकर्ता self-management , जबकि चीन , वियतनाम और  Laos introduced far-reaching market reforms after the 1980s .
In the 21st century , China and Vietnam  have अनुमत a मिश्रित अर्थव्यवस्था  to develop .
The fundamental concepts of communist states often  diverge इससे the असली socio-economic विचारधाराओं इससे जिससे वे  develop .
As a result , many adherents of these ideologies often oppose the political  प्रणालियों commonly संबद्ध साथ ये राज्य  .
For example , dissenting communists such as Trotskyists were often opposed to the  कम्युनिस्ट राज्य of the 20th सदी , claiming either कि वे था nothing to do साथ `` रियल '' साम्यवादी or कि the  ideology of such states had reached a point of irrevocable corruption .
Michael Fred Phelps II ( born June 30 , 1985 ) is a retired American swimmer and the most  सजा ओलंपियन of सब समय , साथ a कुल of 22 medals  .
Phelps also holds the all-time records for Olympic gold medals ( 18 , double the second highest record holders ) , Olympic gold medals in individual  कार्यक्रम ( 11 ) , और ओलम्पिक medals in व्यक्तिगत कार्यक्रम लिये a पुरूष  ( 13 ) .
In winning eight gold medals at the 2008  बीजिंग खेल , फेल्प्स took the रिकार्ड लिये the सबसे first-place  finishes at any single Olympic Games .
Five of those  victories यहूद in  individual events , tying the single Games record .
In the 2012 Summer  ओलंपिक in लंदन , फेल्प्स जीती चार golds और दो चांदी medals  , making him the most successful athlete of the Games for the third Olympics in a row .
Phelps is the  long कोर्स संसार recordholder in the 100-meter तितली , 200-meter तितली और 400-meter व्यक्तिगत  medley as well as the former long course world recordholder in the 200-meter freestyle and 200-meter individual medley .
He has won a total of 71 medals in major international long-course competition , 57 gold , 11 silver , and  तीन कांस्य spanning the ओलंपिक , the संसार , और the पण प्रशांत championships  .
Phelps 's international titles and  record-breaking प्रदर्शन have अर्जित उसे the संसार तैराक of the साल पुरस्कार  seven times and American Swimmer of the Year Award nine times as well as the FINA Swimmer of the Year Award in 2012 .
His unprecedented  ओलम्पिक कामयाबी in 2008 अर्जित फेल्प्स खेल illustrated  magazine 's Sportsman of the Year award .
बाद the 2008 गर्मियाँ ओलंपिक , फेल्प्स प्रारंभ  the Michael Phelps Foundation , which focuses on growing the sport of swimming and promoting healthier lifestyles .
He  expects to do further कार्य साथ  his foundation after the 2012 Olympics , which he has said will be his last .
Lenovo Group  सीमित ( ) is a चाइनीज बहुराष्ट्रीय कंप्यूटर हार्डवेयर और इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स  company with its headquarters in Beijing , China and Morrisville , North Carolina and its registered office in Hong Kong , China .
Its products include personal computers , tablet computers ,  मोबाईल फोन , workstations , सर्वर , इलेक्ट्रॉनिक भंडार डिवाइस , it प्रबन्धन  software and smart televisions .
Lenovo is the world 's second-largest PC  विक्रेता by 2012 ईकाई बिक्री  .
It  बाज़ार the थिंकपैड लकीर of कोपी कंप्यूटर और the  ThinkCentre line of desktops .
Lenovo has operations in more than 60 countries and sells its  उत्पाद in around 160 देशों  .
Lenovo was founded in Beijing in  1984 और incorporated in हांग काँग in 1988 अंतर्गत  its previous name , Legend .
Lenovo is listed on the Hong  काँग भण्डार एक्सचेंज और is a constituent of the हैंग  Seng China-Affiliated Corporations Index .
Slug is a common name for an  जाहिर shell-less स्थलीय  gastropod mollusk .
The word  `` स्लग '' is भी प्रायः प्रयुक्त as भाग of the आम नाम  of any gastropod mollusc that has no shell , has a very reduced shell , or has only a small internal shell .
( This is in contrast to the common name `` snail `` , which is  लागू to gastropods कि have a नतीजे शेल कि is विशाल पर्याप्त कि  the soft parts of the animal can retract fully into it . )
Slugs exist on land and in the sea , and  वहीँ is भी एक genus of freshwater slugs , acochlidium  .
The unadorned word `` slug '' is however applied primarily to land slugs , whereas  slugs इससे the समुद्र or इससे freshwater हैं प्रायः  referred to as `` sea slugs `` and `` freshwater slugs '' .
Land gastropods with a shell that is not quite vestigial ,  लकिन is too छोटी to retract into ( जैसे अनेक in the परिवार urocyclidae  ) , are known as semislugs .
the विभिन्न taxonomic परिवारों of slugs रूप  part of several quite different evolutionary lineages which also include snails .
Thus , for example , the various families of land slugs are not very closely related to one  another , despite a सतही समानता in the overall देह रूप .
The  shell-less कंडीशन रै arisen अनेक टाइम्स  independently during the evolutionary past , and thus the category `` slug '' is emphatically a polyphyletic one .
Slugs , like  सब अन्य gastropods , undergo torsion ( a 180° टेढ़ी  of the internal organs ) during development .
Internally , slug anatomy clearly shows the effects of this rotation , but externally the  लाशें of जमीन slugs appear to be अधिक or कम सममित , मगर लिये the positioning of the pneumostome  , which is on one side of the animal , normally the right hand side .
The soft , slimy bodies of slugs are prone to desiccation , so land-living slugs are confined to moist environments and  जरूर रिट्रीट to नम छुपाना स्थान जब the मौसम  is dry .
The subsequent information in this  आलेख applies to जमीन  slugs .
is a Latin word that means  `` यूँ '' or , in लिखने , ``  it was thus in the source material '' .
Sic may  भी  refer to:
sic , cluj  , a commune in Romania
SIC , the  क्षेत्रीय कोड  for Sicily
Sic (  रव कलाकार ) , styled as [ sic ] , स्टेज  name of Jennifer Morris , a Canadian noise artist
Sic ( band ) is a modern Hardcore/Thrash metal band  इससे torshavn , the पूंजी of the  Faroe Islands
`` ( sic ) '' , a song by  अमरीकी बैंड slipknot on  the album Slipknot
SIC ,  the आरंभिक of  Marco Simoncelli .
SIC as  an एक्रोनिम  may stand for:
SiC , Silicon carbide , a  semiconducting सामग्री , भी  used to make metalworking tools
SIC ( cyclecar ) (  società  Italiana Cyclecars )
Standard Industrial Classification  , a 20th-century  U.S. system for classifying industries
International  मानक औद्योगिक वर्गीकरण  a UN system for economic activities
Shetland  आइलैंड्स परिषद
the Swiss Interbank  clearing प्रणाली
सैन isidro क्लबों ,  an Argentine rugby union club
Standing Interpretation  कमेटी , a कमेटी समर्पित to  the interpretation of international accounting standards IFRS
Schwarz  सूचना मानदंड  in the field of statistics
second-in-command in the फ़ील्ड  of aviation
Sistema  interconectado सेंट्रल शक्ति  grid in Chile
Sociedade  independente de comunicação  ( SIC ) , a television channel in Portugal
Sea Isle City ,  नई जर्सी ,  a coastal town in the United States
Segmented Integer Counter mode , a mode of  आपरेशन in क्रिप्टोग्राफी
Sepang  अंतरराष्ट्रीय सर्किट , a  high-end racetrack that hosts the Malaysian round of Formula 1
Shanghai  अंतरराष्ट्रीय सर्किट , a मोटर रेसिंग  venue in Shanghai , China
Simplified instructional computer , a hypothetical  कंप्यूटर प्रयुक्त in प्रणालियों प्रोग्रामिंग
SIC  ( बेटे idées couleurs ) , an जल्दी twentieth-century  art magazine produced by French author Pierre Albert-Birot
Southeastern Illinois College , a two year Junior College in  harrisburg , इलिनोइस , संयुक्त  States
Specific inductive capacity ,  abbreviated to sic , जिससे is अधिक commonly ज्ञात  as the relative permittivity or the dielectric constant
St Ignatius ' College ,  riverview , a जेसुइट स्कूल in सिडनी  , Australia
Imperial Standard of  नेपोलियन  I
Napoleon Bonaparte ( , ; 15 August 1769 – 5 May 1821 ) was a French military and political  नेता जो रोज़ to prominence दौरान the latter चरण of the फ्रेंच क्रान्ति और इसके संबद्ध  wars in Europe .
As  नेपोलियन i , he थी सम्राट  of the French from 1804 to 1815 .
His legal reform , the Napoleonic Code , has been a major influence on many civil law jurisdictions worldwide , but he is best remembered for his  भूमिका in the युद्धों led विरूद्ध फ़्रांस by a श्रेणी of coalitions , the so-called  Napoleonic Wars .
He established hegemony over most of continental Europe and sought to spread the ideals of the French  क्रान्ति , जबकि consolidating an इम्पीरियल साम्राज्य जिससे लौटी पहलुओं  of the deposed Ancien Régime .
Due to his  कामयाबी in ये युद्धों , प्रायः विरूद्ध numerically श्रेष्ठ दुश्मनों , he is generally regarded as  one of the greatest military commanders of all time , and his campaigns are studied at military academies worldwide .
Napoleon was born at Ajaccio in Corsica in a family of noble  इतालवी ancestry जिससे था  settled Corsica in the 16th century .
He trained as an  तोपखाने  officer in mainland France .
He rose to prominence under the French First  गणतंत्र और led कामयाब अभियान विरूद्ध the पहला  and Second Coalitions arrayed against France .
He led a successful  आक्रमण of the इतालवी  peninsula .
In 1799 , he staged a coup d'état and installed himself as First Consul ; five  सालो बाद the फ्रेंच सीनेट proclaimed उसे सम्राट  , following a plebiscite in his favour .
In the first decade of  the 19th सदी , the फ्रेंच साम्राज्य अंतर्गत  Napoleon engaged in a series of conflicts—the Napoleonic Wars —that involved every major European power .
After a streak of victories , France secured a  प्रबल स्थिति in महाद्वीपीय यूरोपीय , और नेपोलियन कायम the फ्रेंच गोला of  influence through the formation of extensive alliances and the appointment of friends and family members to rule other European countries as French client states .
The Peninsular War and 1812 French invasion of  रूस चिह्नित turning अंक in नेपोलियन  's fortunes .
His Grande Armée was badly damaged in the  अभियान और never fully  recovered .
In 1813 , the Sixth Coalition defeated his forces at Leipzig ; the following year the  गठबन्धन invaded फ़्रांस , मजबूर नेपोलियन to  abdicate and exiled him to the island of Elba .
Less than a year later , he escaped Elba and returned  to शक्ति , लकिन थी पराजित at the बैटल  of Waterloo in June 1815 .
Napoleon spent the last six  सालो of उसके जीवन in कारावास  by the British on the island of Saint Helena .
An autopsy concluded he died of stomach cancer , but there has been  कुछ बहस परिचय the कारण of उसके मौत , as कुछ विद्वानों have  speculated that he was a victim of arsenic poisoning .
This is a chronological  लिस्टिंग of the संयुक्त  States Senators from Pennsylvania .
United States Senators are  popularly निर्वाचित , लिये a six-year पद  , beginning January 3 .
Elections are held the  पहला मंगलवार बाद नवम्बर  1 .
Before 1914 , they were chosen  by the पेन्सिलवेनिया सामान्य सभा  , and before 1935 , their terms began March 4 .
The South Africa national rugby union team (  ज्ञात as the springboks ) represents  South Africa in rugby union .
They compete in the annual Rugby Championship , along with  southern-hemisphere counterparts अर्जेंटीना , ऑस्ट्रेलिया  and New Zealand .
They have won this championship on  तीन अवसरों in सोलह  years .
They are currently ranked second in the world by the International Rugby Board , and were named 2008 World Team  of the साल at the laureus संसार  Sports Awards .
Although South Africa was instrumental in the creation of the Rugby World Cup competition , the Springboks did not  compete in the पहला दो संसार cups in 1987 और 1991 क्युकी of anti-apartheid sporting  boycotts of South Africa .
The team made its World Cup debut in 1995 , when  the newly लोकतांत्रिक दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी hosted the टूर्नामेंट  .
The Springboks then defeated the All Blacks 15–12 in  the फाइनल , जिससे is अभी  remembered as one of the greatest moments in South Africa 's sporting history , and a watershed moment in the post-Apartheid nation-building process .
South  अफ़्रीकी regained उनके शीर्षक as champions  12 years later , when they defeated England 15–6 in the 2007 final .
As a result of the 2007 World Cup tournament the  springboks यहूद प्रचारित to पहला प्लेस in the आईआरबी संसार rankings , a स्थिति वे आयोजित जबतक जुलाई  the following year when New Zealand regained the top spot .
The Springboks play in green and gold jerseys , and their  प्रतीक हैं the  Springbok and the Protea .
The side has been playing international rugby since 1891  , जब a अंग्रेजों isles पक्ष toured the स्वदेश , playing  South Africa in their first Test on 30 July .
South Africa was coached by Jake White  , जो led the boks to the  2007 World Cup title , announcing his resignation effectively from the end of 2007 .
His replacement 's ( Peter de Villiers ) contract expired in 2011 , following  a 11–9 शिकस्त to ऑस्ट्रेलिया in the रग्बी संसार कप quarter-final , जो तब stated he होता  not be signing a new deal .
The previous captain was John Smit , who before he retired in 2011  निभाई वेश्या लिये सबसे of उसके करियर , हालांकि  he has also been a prop , mainly in 2008 and 2009 .
Due to Smit being  अनुपलब्ध लिये the नवम्बर 2010 परीक्षण बाद  surgery , lock Victor Matfield took Smit 's place as captain for that tour .
The  वर्तमान कप्तान  is Jean de Villiers .
The Battle of Gettysburg ( , with an sound ) , was  लड़ा जुलाई 1–3 , 1863 , in और around the कस्बा of gettysburg  , Pennsylvania .
It was the battle with the largest number of casualties in the  अमरीकी सिविल युद्ध और is प्रायः वर्णित  as the war 's turning point .
Union Maj. Gen. George Gordon Meade 's Army of the Potomac defeated  हमले by confederate gen. रॉबर्ट E. ली 's फौज of उत्तरी वर्जिनिया  , ending Lee 's invasion of the North .
After his success at Chancellorsville in Virginia in May 1863 , Lee led his  फौज through the shenandoah घाटी  to begin his second invasion of the North—the Gettysburg Campaign .
With his army in high spirits , Lee intended to shift the  फ़ोकस of the गर्मियाँ अभियान इससे war-ravaged उत्तरी वर्जिनिया और hoped to influence उत्तरी  politicians to give up their prosecution of the war by penetrating as far as Harrisburg , Pennsylvania , or even Philadelphia .
Prodded by President Abraham Lincoln , Maj. Gen. Joseph  वेश्या स्थानांतरित उसके फौज in pursuit , लकिन थी सुकून बस तीन  days before the battle and replaced by Meade .
तत्व of the दो सेना initially collided at gettysburg on जुलाई  1 , 1863 , as Lee urgently concentrated his forces there , his objective being to engage the Union army and destroy it .
Low ridges to the  उत्तरपश्चिम of कस्बा यहूद defended initially by a संघ प्यादे प्रभाग  under Brig . Gen. John Buford , and soon reinforced with two corps of Union infantry .
However , two large Confederate corps assaulted them from the  उत्तरपश्चिम और उत्तर , collapsing the hastily विकसित  Union lines , sending the defenders retreating through the streets of town to the hills just to the south .
On the second day of  बैटल , सबसे of दोनो सेना  had assembled .
The Union line was laid out in a defensive  गठन resembling a fishhook  .
In the late afternoon of July 2 , Lee launched a heavy assault on the Union left  पार्श्व , और fierce लड़ raged at छोटी गोलाकार शीर्ष , the wheatfield , शैतान 's डेन  , and the Peach Orchard .
On the Union right ,  demonstrations escalated into full-scale assaults  on Culp 's Hill and Cemetery Hill .
All across the battlefield , despite significant losses ,  the संघ defenders आयोजित उनके  lines .
On  the तीसरा दिन of बैटल , जुलाई 3 , लड़ resumed on culp 's हिल , और प्यादे लड़ाइयों raged to the ईस्ट और दक्षिण  , but the main event was a dramatic infantry assault by 12,500 Confederates against the center of the Union line on Cemetery Ridge , known as Pickett 's Charge .
The charge was repulsed by Union rifle and artillery fire , at great  नुकसान to the confederate  army .
Lee led his  फौज on a torturous रिट्रीट  back to Virginia .
Between 46,000 and  51,000 सैनिको इससे दोनो  armies were casualties in the three-day battle .
That November , President Lincoln used the  समर्पण रस्म लिये the gettysburg नेशनल कब्रिस्तान to सम्मान the  fallen Union soldiers and redefine the purpose of the war in his historic Gettysburg Address .
An academic discipline , or field of study , is a branch of knowledge  कि is सिखाया और शोधकार्य at the कॉलेज or विश्वविद्यालयों  level .
Disciplines are defined ( in part ) , and recognized by the academic  जर्नल्स in जिससे शोध is प्रकाशित , और the सीखे  societies and academic departments or faculties to which their practitioners belong .
However , there exists no formal criteria for when  शैक्षणिक कार्यक्रम और scholarly जर्नल्स रूप  an academic discipline .
A huge difference exists between , on the one hand , well established disciplines that exist in almost all universities all over the world , have a long  इतिहास , और have a खूब स्थापित नियत of जर्नल्स और सम्मेलनों  , and , on the other hand , suggestions for new fields supported only by few universities and publications .
Fields of study usually have  अनेक sub-disciplines or शाखाओं , और the distinguishing लाइनों  between these are often both arbitrary and ambiguous .
PHP is a server-side scripting language designed for web development but also used  as a general-purpose प्रोग्रामिंग  language .
PHP is now installed on more than 244  लाख वेबसाइटों और  2.1 million web servers .
Originally created by Rasmus Lerdorf in 1995 , the reference implementation of PHP is  अभी उत्पादित by the पीएचपी समूह  .
While PHP originally stood for Personal Home Page , it now stands for PHP  : हाइपरटेक्स्ट preprocessor , a recursive एक्रोनिम  .
PHP code is interpreted by a web server  साथ a पीएचपी प्रोसेसर मोड्यूल जिससे generates the resulting वेब पेज : पीएचपी कमांड can be अंतःस्थापित  directly into an HTML source document rather than calling an external file to process data .
It has also evolved to include a command-line interface  काबिलियत और can be प्रयुक्त in स्टैंडअलोन  graphical applications .
PHP is free software  released अंतर्गत the पीएचपी अनुज्ञा , जिससे is असंगत साथ the  GNU General Public License ( GPL ) due to restrictions on the usage of the term PHP .
PHP can  be तैनात on सबसे वेब सर्वर और भी as a स्टैंडअलोन  shell on almost every operating system and platform , free of charge .
John Fitzgerald `` Jack '' Kennedy ( May 29 , 1917 – November 22 , 1963 ) , often referred to by  उसके आद्याक्षर jfk , थी the 35th अध्यक्ष of the  United States , serving from 1961 until his death in 1963 .
After military service as commander of the Motor  torpedo नौकाएँ pt-109 और pt-59 दौरान संसार युद्ध ii in the दक्षिण प्रशांत , कैनेडी represented मैसाचुसेट्स ' 11th congressional ज़िला in the u.S.  House of Representatives from 1947 to 1953 as a Democrat .
Thereafter , he served in the U.S.  सीनेट इससे  1953 until 1960 .
कैनेडी पराजित वाइस अध्यक्ष और रिपब्लिकन प्रत्याशी  Richard Nixon in the 1960 U.S. presidential election .
At 43 years of age , he is the youngest to have been elected to the office , the  second-youngest अध्यक्ष ( बाद थियोडोर रूज़वेल्ट ) , और the पहला व्यक्ति born  in the 20th century to serve as president .
A Catholic , Kennedy is the only non- Protestant  अध्यक्ष , और is the तभी अध्यक्ष to have  won a Pulitzer Prize .
Events during his presidency  शामिल the खाड़ी of सूअर आक्रमण , the क्यूबन मिसाइल संकट , the भवन of the बर्लिन  Wall , the Space Race , the African-American Civil Rights Movement , and early stages of the Vietnam War .
Therein , Kennedy  increased the क्रमांक of सैन्य advisers , खास  operation forces , and helicopters in an effort to curb the spread of communism in South East Asia .
The Kennedy administration adopted the policy of the Strategic Hamlet Program which  थी implemented by the दक्षिण  Vietnamese government .
It involved certain forced relocation , village  internment , और पृथक्करण of ग्रामीण दक्षिण वियतनामी इससे  the northern and southern communist insurgents .
Kennedy was assassinated on November 22 ,  1963 in डलास ,  Texas .
Lee Harvey Oswald was charged with the crime , but he was shot and killed by Jack Ruby two  दिनों बाद , पहले a विचारण  could take place .
The FBI and the  वारेन आयोग officially concluded  that Oswald was the lone assassin .
However , the United States House Select Committee on Assassinations ( HSCA ) concluded that those investigations  यहूद flawed और कि कैनेडी थी संभवतः assassinated as the परिणाम of a षड्यंत्र  .
However , ABC News in  उनके छानबीन , the कैनेडी हत्या : परे षड्यंत्र  , confirmed the findings of the Warren Commission ; having concluded Oswald acted alone .
Kennedy 's  विवादास्पद विभाग of रक्षा tfx सेनानी bomber कार्यक्रम led to a congressional  investigation that lasted from 1963 to 1970 .
Since the 1960s information  concerning कैनेडी 's निजी जीवन रै आइये to लाइट  .
Details of  कैनेडी 's स्वास्थ्य समस्याएं  in which he struggled have become better known , especially since the 1990s .
Although initially kept secret from the general public  , रिपोर्ट्स of कैनेडी 's philandering  have garnered much press .
Kennedy ranks highly in public  राय दरजा of u.S.  presidents .
`` स्टैंड by me '' is a सोंग originally performed by बेन E. किंग और लिखा by किंग , जेरी leiber , और  Mike Stoller , inspired by the spiritual `` Lord Stand by Me , '' plus two lines rooted in Psalms 46:2–3 .
There have been  over 400 अंकित  versions of the song .
A political cartoon from an 1894 Puck magazine by illustrator S.D . Ehrhart , shows a farm woman  labeled `` लोकतांत्रिक पार्टी '' sheltering इससे a बवंडर  of political change .
A metaphor is a  फिगर of वाक कि describes a विषय by asserting कि it is , on  some point of comparison , the same as another otherwise unrelated object .
Metaphor is a type of analogy and is closely related to other rhetorical figures of speech that achieve  उनके प्रभाव via संघ , तुलना or प्रतिरूप सहित allegory  , hyperbole , and simile .
in simpler शर्तें  , a metaphor compares two objects or things without using the words `` like '' or `` as '' .
One of the most prominent examples of a metaphor in English literature is  the सब the संसार 's a  stage monologue from As You Like It :
All  the संसार 's a स्टैगe,
And all the men  और महिलाओं merely खिलाड़ी  ;
They have their exits and their  entrances ; — विलियम शेक्सपियर  , As You Like It , 2/7
This quote is a metaphor  क्युकी the संसार  is not literally a stage .
By figuratively  asserting कि the संसार is a स्टेज , शेक्सपियर उपयोग the अंक  of comparison between the world and a stage to convey an understanding about the mechanics of the world and the lives of the people within it .
Mount Fuji , from the Thirty-six Views  of माउंट फुजी , रंग  woodcut by Katsushika Hokusai
rembrandt वैन rijn , self-portrait  , etching , c.1630
Francisco Goya , There  is no एक to सहायता उन्हें , आपदाओं  of War series , aquatint c.1810
Felix Vallotton  , la raison probante ( the cogent  Reason ) , woodcut from the series Intimités , 1898
Printmaking is the  प्रक्रम of बनाना artworks by मुद्रण  , normally on paper .
Printmaking normally covers only the process of creating prints with an element  of मौलिकता , बल्कि than बस होने a फ़ोटोग्राफ़िक  reproduction of a painting .
Except in the case of monotyping , the process is capable of producing  multiples of the वही टुकड़ा , जिससे is पुकारा  a print .
Each print produced is not considered a `` copy '' but  बल्कि is माना an `` असली  '' .
This is because typically each print varies to an extent due to variables intrinsic to the printmaking process , and also because the imagery of a print is typically not simply a reproduction of another work but  बल्कि is प्रायः a अद्वितीय चित्र designed इससे the प्रारंभ to be expressed in a particular printmaking तकनीक  .
A print  may be  known as an impression .
Printmaking ( other than monotyping  ) is नहीं चुनी तभी लिये इसके क्षमता to उपज अनेक impressions  , but rather for the unique qualities that each of the printmaking processes lends itself to .
Prints are created by transferring  स्याही इससे a मेट्रिक्स or through a prepared स्क्रीन to a चादर  of paper or other material .
Common types of matrices include : metal plates , usually copper or zinc , or polymer plates for engraving or etching ; stone , aluminum ,  or पॉलिमर लिये lithography ; ब्लॉक of लकडी लिये woodcuts और लकडी engravings ; और linoleum  for linocuts .
Screens made  of रेशा or सिंथेटिक fabrics हैं प्रयुक्त  for the screenprinting process .
Other types of matrix substrates and  सम्बन्धित प्रक्रियाओं हैं discussed  below .
Multiple  impressions मुद्रित इससे the वही  matrix form an edition .
Since the late 19th century , artists have  generally हस्ताक्षरित व्यक्तिगत impressions इससे an संस्करण और  often number the impressions to form a limited edition .
Prints may also be  मुद्रित in किताब रूप  , such as illustrated books or artist 's books .
Il Divo is an English multinational operatic pop vocal group created by music manager , executive , and  वास्तविकता tv स्टार साइमन cowell  .
Formed in the  संयुक्त किंगडम , वे हैं भी  signed to Cowell 's record label , Syco Music .
Il Divo is a group of  चार पुरूष गायकों : फ्रेंच पॉप सिंगर सेबेस्तियन izambard , स्पेनी  baritone Carlos Marín , American tenor David Miller , and Swiss tenor Urs Bühler .
to तिथि , वे have बेची अधिक  than 26 million albums worldwide .
Su-15 , one of the principal Soviet Air Defence  interceptors in the 1970s  and 1980s
An interceptor aircraft ( or simply interceptor  ) is a प्रकार of सेनानी वायुयान designed specifically to prevent मिशन  of enemy aircraft , particularly bombers and reconnaissance aircraft , and destroy them , relying usually on great speed and powerful armament .
Being used since the First World War , after the late 1960s , interceptors became less important due to shifting from bombers to  इंटरकांटिनेंटल बैलिस्टिक मिसाइलें ( icbms ) लिये नाभिकीय warfare  .
A  वियतनामी अमरीकी ( ) is an  American of Vietnamese descent .
They make up about half of all overseas Vietnamese ( Người Việt Hải Ngoại ) and are the  fourth-largest एशियाई अमरीकी समूह  .
Mass Vietnamese immigration  to the संयुक्त राज्य  started after 1975 , after the end of the Vietnam War .
Early immigrants were refugee  नाव लोगों  fleeing persecution or poverty .
Forced to flee from their homeland and often thrust  into ग़रीब शहरी पड़ोस , ये newcomers have nevertheless  managed to establish strong communities in a short amount of time .
More than sixty percent of Vietnamese Americans reside in the states of California , Texas ,  वॉशिंगटन , फ्लोरिडा , और वर्जिनिया .
Front page of the U.S. Armed Forces newspaper , Stars  और धारियाँ , 2 may  1945
Adolf Hitler committed suicide by  gunshot on 30 अप्रैल 1945 in उसके führerbunker  in Berlin .
His  बीवी एवा ( née braun )  committed suicide with him by ingesting cyanide .
कि दोपहर , in accordance साथ हिटलर 's prior निर्देश , उनके remains  were carried up the stairs through the bunker 's emergency exit , doused in petrol and set alight in the Reich Chancellery garden outside the bunker .
The Soviet  अभिलेख रिकार्ड कि उनके जले  remains were recovered and interred in successive locations until 1970 when they were again exhumed , cremated and the ashes scattered .
Accounts differ as to the cause of death ; one that he died by poison only and another that  he died by a self-inflicted gunshot , जबकि biting bas  on a cyanide capsule .
Contemporary historians have rejected these accounts  as होने either सोवियत प्रचार or an attempted सुलह in अनुक्रम to  reconcile the different conclusions .
One eye-witness recorded that the body showed signs of having been shot  through the मुँह , लकिन इस रै  been proven unlikely .
There is also  विवाद regarding  the authenticity of skull and jaw fragments which were recovered .
In 2009 , DNA tests were  performed on a कपाल सोवियत officials था long  believed to be Hitler 's .
The tests revealed that the skull was actually  कि of a स्त्री कम than 40  years old .
स्थान  of Missouri
The alcohol laws of Missouri are among the least restrictive and most  lax और permissive in the  United States .
Missouri is known throughout the Midwest for its largely laissez-faire approach to alcohol regulation  , in शार्प कंट्रास्ट to the बहुत सख्त दारू कानून of  some of its neighbors , like Kansas and Oklahoma .
Necrotizing fasciitis ( or ) or NF , commonly known as flesh-eating disease or flesh-eating bacteria syndrome ,  is a विरल संक्रमण of the deeper परतों of स्किन और subcutaneous  tissues , easily spreading across the fascial plane within the subcutaneous tissue .
Necrotizing fasciitis is quickly progressing ,  having वृहद रिस्क of विकासशील in the immunocompromised due to शर्तें जैसे  diabetes , cancer , etc .
It is a severe  बीमारी of अचानक onset और is प्रायः treated तत्काल  with high doses of intravenous antibiotics .
Type I describes a polymicrobial infection , whereas Type II  describes a monomicrobial संक्रमण  .
Many types of bacteria can cause necrotizing  fasciitis ( e.g. , समूह a streptococcus ( streptococcus  pyogenes ) , Staphylococcus aureus , Clostridium perfringens , Bacteroides fragilis , Aeromonas hydrophila ) .
Such infections are more likely to  occur in लोगों साथ compromised  immune systems .
Historically , Group A streptococcus made up  सबसे मामले of प्रकार  II infections .
However , since as early as 2001 , another serious form of monomicrobial  necrotizing fasciitis रै महरूम observed साथ increasing आवृत्ति , caused  by methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus ( MRSA ) .
Some published case reports have implied a possible link between use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and NF , though the evidence of  the कड़ी थी कहा to be कमजोर क्युकी of a छोटी क्रमांक of मामला मरीजों और it थी unclear  whether the drugs just masked the symptoms of a secondary infection or were a cause per se .
World War II ( WWII or WW2 ) , also  ज्ञात as the दूसरी संसार युद्ध , थी a वैश्विक युद्ध  that lasted from 1939 to 1945 .
It involved the vast majority of the world  's राष्ट्र —including सब  of the great powers —eventually forming two opposing military alliances : the Allies and the Axis .
it थी the सबसे फैली युद्ध in इतिहास , साथ अधिक than  100 million people serving in military units from over 30 different countries .
In a state of `` total war `` , the  प्रमुख भागीदार लगाई उनके  entire economic , industrial , and scientific capabilities at the service of the war effort , erasing the distinction between civilian and military resources .
Marked by mass deaths of civilians , including the Holocaust and the only use of nuclear weapons  in warfare , it resulted in 50 लाख to over  75 million fatalities .
These deaths make World War II by far the deadliest  विरोध in इंसान इतिहास  .
The Empire of Japan aimed to dominate East Asia and was already at war with the Republic of China in 1937 , but  the संसार युद्ध is generally कहा to have begun on 1 सितंबर 1939 साथ  the invasion of Poland by Germany and subsequent declarations of war on Germany by France and Britain .
From late 1939 to early 1941 , in a series of  अभियान और treaties , जर्मनी formed the अक्ष गठबंधन  with Italy , conquering or subduing much of continental Europe .
Following the  molotov–ribbentrop अनुबंध ,  Germany and the Soviet Union partitioned and annexed territories between themselves of their European neighbours , including Poland .
The United Kingdom and the other members of the British Commonwealth were the only major Allied forces  continuing the लड़ो विरूद्ध the अक्ष , साथ लड़ाइयों लेने प्लेस  in North Africa as well as the long-running Battle of the Atlantic .
In June 1941 , the European Axis launched an invasion of the Soviet Union , giving a start to the largest land  थिएटर of युद्ध in इतिहास , जिससे tied bas the प्रमुख भाग  of the Axis ' military forces for the rest of the war .
In December  1941 , जापानी joined the अक्ष , attacked the संयुक्त राज्य और यूरोपीय territories  in the Pacific Ocean , and quickly conquered much of the Western Pacific .
The Axis advance was stopped in  1942 , बाद जापानी खोया a श्रेणी of नवल लड़ाइयों और यूरोपीय  Axis troops were defeated in North Africa and , decisively , at Stalingrad .
In 1943 , with a series of German defeats in Eastern Europe , the Allied invasion of Italy , and American victories in the  प्रशांत , the अक्ष खोया the पहल और  undertook strategic retreat on all fronts .
In 1944 , the Western  allies invaded फ़्रांस , जबकि the सोवियत  Union regained all of its territorial losses and invaded Germany and its allies .
दौरान 1944 और 1945 the  United States defeated the Japanese Navy and captured key Western Pacific islands .
The war in Europe ended with the capture of Berlin by Soviet and Polish troops and the subsequent German  unconditional आत्मसमर्पण on 8  May 1945 .
Following the Potsdam Declaration by the Allies on 26 July 1945 , the United States dropped atomic bombs on  the जापानी शहरों of हिरोशिमा on 6 अगस्त , और नागासाकी on 9 अगस्त  .
With an invasion of the Japanese archipelago imminent , and the Soviet Union  having घोषित युद्ध on जापानी by आक्रमणकारी मंचूरिया , जापानी surrendered on 15 अगस्त 1945  , ending the war in Asia and cementing the total victory of the Allies over the Axis .
World War II altered the  राजनैतिक संरेखण और सोशल ढांचा of the संसार  .
The United Nations ( UN ) was  स्थापित to फोस्टर अंतरराष्ट्रीय सहयोग और  prevent future conflicts .
The great powers that were the victors of the war—the United States , the Soviet Union , China , the United Kingdom , and  france—became the स्थाई सदस्यों of the संयुक्त राष्ट्र सुरक्षा परिषद .
The  सोवियत संघ और the संयुक्त राज्य उभरा as प्रतिद्वंद्वी  superpowers , setting the stage for the Cold War , which lasted for the next 46 years .
Meanwhile , the influence of European great powers  प्रारंभ to मनाही , जबकि the decolonisation  of Asia and Africa began .
Most countries whose industries had been damaged  स्थानांतरित towards आर्थिक रिकवरी  .
Political integration , especially in Europe , emerged as  an प्रयत्न to stabilise postwar संबंध और लड़ो अधिक effectively  in the Cold War .
A limited liability company ( LLC ) is a flexible  रूप of एंटरप्राइज़ कि मिश्रणों तत्व  of partnership and corporate structures .
Note than  an llc is नहीं a निगम  , and calling an LLC a corporation is technically incorrect .
An LLC is a legal form of company that provides limited  देयता to इसके स्वामी in the विशाल बहुमत of संयुक्त राज्य jurisdictions  .
llcs do नहीं need to be व्यवस्थित  for profit .
Five  k-cups
The inside of a used K-Cup , with  the शीर्ष foil और the  used coffee grounds removed .
This shows the  फिल्टर अंदर  the K-Cup .
K-Cup portion packs are used with Keurig or  अन्य सिंगल कप brewing प्रणालियों to काढ़ा a कप of कॉफी ,  tea , or hot chocolate .
Each K-Cup is  a प्लास्टिक संग्राहक साथ  a coffee filter inside .
मैदान कॉफी सेम हैं packed  in the K-Cup and sealed air-tight with a combination plastic and foil lid .
When the K-Cup is placed in a Keurig brewer , the brewer punctures the foil lid and the bottom of the K-Cup  और शक्तियां hot जल अंतर्गत दबाव through  the K-Cup and into a mug .
Keurig licenses its K-Cup technology to coffee roasters and tea makers such as Green Mountain Coffee Roasters , Diedrich/ Gloria Jeans , Timothy 's World Coffee ,  वैन houtte , हिरण कॉफी , celestial seasonings , bigelow चाय कम्पनी , twinings , टली 's , कॉफी लोगों और न्युमैन 's  Own .
Keurig 's patents on the original  k-cup डिज़ाइन समाप्त  in September 2012 .
Keurig holds at least one additional , still-active US patent and another patent application ,  detailing सुधार कि have subsequently महरूम  incorporated in their K-Cup design .
Electa Pocket Chronograph ( ca . 1890s )  manufactured by the gallet देखें  Company in La Chaux-de-Fonds , Switzerland .
Gallet MultiChron Astronomic ( ca . 1959 ) —complex mechanical chronograph with 12  घंटा recoding सामर्थ्य , स्वचालित दिन , तिथि , माह  , and moon phase display
A modern Seiko quartz wristwatch using the chronograph function (  गति 7t92 )  .
Citizen Atessa Eco-Drive  atv53-3023 analog-digital chronograph साथ 4 क्षेत्रफल रेडियो नियंत्रित  reception ( North America , Europe , China , Japan ) .
A chronograph is a specific type of watch that is  प्रयुक्त as a stopwatch संयुक्त साथ a प्रदर्शक  watch .
A basic chronograph has an independent sweep  दूसरी हाथ ; it can be प्रारंभ , रोका , और लौटे  to zero by successive pressure on the stem .
Louis  moinet invented  the chronograph in 1816
Conventional PCI ( PCI is an initialism formed from Peripheral Component Interconnect , part of the PCI  लोकल बस मानक और प्रायः shortened to बस पीसीआई ) is a लोकल कंप्यूटर बस लिये attaching  hardware devices in a computer .
The PCI bus supports the functions found on a processor bus , but in a  मानकीकृत स्वरूप कि is स्वतंत्र of कोई  particular processor .
Devices connected to the bus  appear to the प्रोसेसर to be कनेक्ट सीधे to the प्रोसेसर बस , और हैं आबंटित  addresses in the processor 's address space .
Attached devices can take  either the रूप of an एकीकृत सर्किट fitted onto the मदरबोर्ड itself , पुकारा a planar  device in the PCI specification , or an expansion card that fits into a slot .
The PCI Local Bus was first implemented in  ibm pc compatibles , जहाँ it विस्थापित the संयोजन  of ISA plus one VESA Local Bus as the bus configuration .
It  रै subsequently  been adopted for other computer types .
PCI and PCI-X are being replaced by PCI Express , but , most  motherboards हैं स्टिल बना साथ एक or अधिक पीसीआई स्लॉट  , which are sufficient for many uses .
The PCI specification covers the physical size of the bus ( including the size  और अंतरण of the सर्किट फलक किनारे विद्युत सम्पर्क ) , विद्युत  characteristics , bus timing , and protocols .
The specification can be  खरीदा इससे the पीसीआई खास  Interest Group ( PCI-SIG ) .
Typical PCI cards used in PCs include : network cards , sound cards , modems , extra ports such as  usb or सीरियल , tv ट्यूनर ताश और डिस्क परिरक्षक  .
PCI video cards replaced ISA and VESA cards , until growing bandwidth requirements  outgrew the सामर्थ्य of पीसीआई ; the पसन्दीदा  interface for video cards became AGP , and then PCI Express .
PCI  वीडियो ताश remain उपलब्धियाँ लिये  use with old PCs without AGP or PCI Express slots .
Many devices previously provided on PCI expansion cards are now commonly integrated onto motherboards or available in  सार्वभौमिक सीरियल बस और पीसीआई एक्स्प्रेस  versions .
Michael Whitaker Smith (  born अक्तूबर 7 , 1957 ) is an अमरीकी समकालीन ईसाई संगीतकार , जो  has charted primarily in the contemporary Christian and occasionally in the mainstream charts .
His biggest success in  मुख्यधारा म्यूज़िक थी in 1991 जब `` प्लेस in इस संसार  '' hit No . 6 on the Billboard Hot 100 .
Smith is a three-time Grammy Award winner , and  रै अर्जित 40 dove पुरस्कार  .
Over the course of his career , he sold more than 13 million  एल्बम और अंकित 29 no . 1 hit गीतों , चौदह  gold albums , and five platinum albums .
Smith is an American  म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार प्राप्तकर्ता ; he थी भी नामित  one of People magazine 's `` Most Beautiful People '' .
An American poster from the World War II -era  कि थी प्रयुक्त to inform लोगों परिचय कया वे चाहिए do  if they suspect sabotage .
तोड़फोड़ is a deliberate कार्रवाई aimed at weakening another  entity through subversion , obstruction , disruption , or destruction .
In a workplace setting ,  तोड़फोड़ is the सचेत वापसी of दक्षता  generally directed at causing some change in workplace conditions .
One who engages in  तोड़फोड़ is a saboteur  .
As a rule , saboteurs try to conceal  उनके पहचान क्युकी of the consequences  of their actions .
For example , whereas an environmental pressure group might be happy to  be पहचाना साथ an अधिनियम of तोड़फोड़ , it होता नहीं want  the individual identities of the perpetrators known .
Patrick Henry College ( PHC ) is a private ,  स्वतंत्र कॉलेज साथ an धर्मान्तरण ईसाई आधार कि focuses  on teaching classical liberal arts and government , located in Purcellville , Virginia , United States .
Patrick Henry is known for its  रूढ़िवादी धर्मान्तरण ईसाई  focus .
As of April 17 , 2007 ,  the कॉलेज थी accredited by the transnational संघ of ईसाई कॉलेजों  and Schools , a national faith-related accrediting organization recognized by the Department of Education and the Council for Higher Education Accreditation .
The school was founded with the help of the Home School Legal  रक्षा संघ , और अभी serves  as the headquarters for the organization , with which it is still closely connected .
The history of  टेलीविज़न comprises the कार्य  of numerous engineers and inventors in several countries over many decades .
The earliest  प्रस्ताव थी in 1908 , in a पेपर by a . A. campbell-swinton  and postulated the use of cathode rays .
The first  व्यावहारिक demonstrations of टेलीविज़न , however  , were developed using electromechanical methods to scan , transmit , and reproduce an image .
As electronic camera and display tubes were  perfected , electromechanical टेलीविज़न दिया रास्ता to all-electronic  systems in nearly all applications .
l'idéal cinéma - ज़ाक tati at aniche खोली  November 23rd 1905 ; the oldest still-active movie theater in the world
A  सिनेमा in ऑस्ट्रेलिया
A  ठेठ मल्टीप्लेक्स ( एएमसी सैर 16  in Woodland Hills , Los Angeles , U.S. )
A movie theater ( also called a cinema , movie house , film house , film theater or picture house )  is a स्थान , प्रायः  a building , for viewing films .
Most but not all movie theaters are commercial  परिचालन केटरिंग to the सामान्य पब्लिक , जो attend  by purchasing a ticket .
The movie is projected with a movie  प्रोजेक्टर onto a विशाल प्रक्षेप स्क्रीन at the  front of the auditorium .
Most movie theaters are now equipped  लिये डिजिटल सिनेमा प्रक्षेप  , removing the need to create and transport a physical film print .
Southern California Norton Owner 's Club on  कैलिफ़ोर्निया राज्य रूट 41  , near Creston .
A motorcycle club is a group of individuals whose  प्राथमिक ब्याज और क्रियाएँ involve मोटरसाइकिल  .
Lyme disease , Lyme borreliosis is an infectious disease caused  by at तनिक तीन प्रजाति of जीवाणु belonging to  the genus Borrelia .
Borrelia burgdorferi sensu stricto is the main cause of Lyme disease in North  अमेरिका , whereas borrelia afzelii और borrelia  garinii cause most European cases .
The disease is named after the towns of Lyme and Old Lyme , Connecticut , USA ,  जहाँ a क्रमांक of मामले यहूद पहचाना  in 1975 .
हालांकि एलन steere एहसास कि lyme बीमारी थी a tick-borne  disease in 1978 , the cause of the disease remained a mystery until 1981 , when B. burgdorferi was identified by Willy Burgdorfer .
Lyme  बीमारी is the सबसे आम  tick-borne disease in the Northern Hemisphere .
Borrelia is transmitted to humans  by the काटना of संक्रमित ticks  belonging to a few species of the genus Ixodes ( `` hard ticks '' ) .
Early symptoms may include fever , headache  , थकान , अवसाद , और a characteristic  circular skin rash called erythema migrans ( EM ) .
Left untreated , later symptoms may involve the  joints , दिल , और सेंट्रल बेचैन  system .
In most cases , the infection and its symptoms  हैं eliminated by एंटीबायोटिक  , especially if the illness is treated early .
Delayed or inadequate treatment can  सीसे to अधिक गंभीर लक्षण , जिससे can be  disabling and difficult to treat .
Penises of minke whales on display at  the आइसलैंडिक phallological  Museum
Penis ( plural penises or penes ) is a  सामान्य पद लिये the अंगों साथ जिससे पुरूष और उभयलिंगी  animals introduce sperm into receptive females during copulation .
Such organs occur in many animals , both vertebrate and invertebrate , but males do not bear a penis in every animal species , and in  those प्रजाति in जिससे the पुरूष करता भालू a so-called शिश्न , the penes in the विभिन्न  species are not necessarily homologous .
For example , the penis of a  स्तनधारी is at सबसे analogous  to the penis of a male insect or barnacle .
The term penis applies to many reproductive intromittent organs , but not to all ;  लिये उदाहरण the intromittent अंग of सबसे cephalopoda is the hectocotylus  , a specialised arm , and male spiders use their pedipalps .
In most species of animals in which there is an organ that might reasonably be described as a penis , it has  no प्रमुख फलन अन्य than intromission , or at तनिक conveying the शुक्राणु to the मादा , लकिन in the placental स्तनधारियों the शिश्न bears  the distal part of the urethra , which discharges both urine during urination and semen during copulation as the occasion requires .
Artists and repertoire ( A & R ) is the division of a record  लेबल or म्यूज़िक प्रकाशन कम्पनी कि is जिम्मेदार  for talent scouting and overseeing the artistic development of recording artists and/or songwriters .
It also acts as a liaison between artists and the record label or  प्रकाशन कम्पनी ; प्रत्येक कार्यकलाप involving कलाकारों to the पाइंट of एल्बम रिलीज is generally माना अंतर्गत  the purview of , and responsibility of , A & R .
A furlong is a measure of distance in imperial units and U.S. customary units equal to one-eighth  of a मील , समतुल्य to 220 गज , 660 फीट , 40 छड़  , or 10 chains .
The  सटीक मान  of the furlong varies slightly among English-speaking countries .
Five furlongs are  लगभग 1 किलोमीटर ( 1.0058  km is a closer approximation ) .
Since the original definition of the metre was one-quarter of one ten-millionth of the circumference of the Earth ( along the great circle coincident with the meridian of  देशांतर गुजर through पेरिस ) , the परिधि  of the Earth is about 40,000 km or about 200,000 furlongs .
cr2032 लिथियम बटन  cell battery
Lithium  9 वोल्ट , aa  , & AAA sizes
Lithium batteries  हैं डिस्पोजेबल ( प्राथमिक ) बैटरी कि  have lithium metal or lithium compounds as an anode .
They stand apart from other batteries in their high charge density ( long life  ) और ऊँची लागत प्रति  unit .
Depending on the design and  रासायनिक यौगिकों प्रयुक्त , लिथियम कोशिकाएं can उपज voltages इससे 1.5 v ( comparable to a zinc–carbon  or alkaline battery ) to about 3.7 V. Lithium batteries are widely used in products such as portable consumer electronic devices .
Raymond `` Ray '' Charles Jack LaMontagne ( ; born June 18 , 1973  ) is an अमरीकी  singer-songwriter .
LaMontagne has released four studio  एल्बम , ट्रबल , तक the सूर्य turns ब्लैक ,  Gossip in the Grain and God Willin ' & the Creek Do n't Rise .
He  थी born in नई हैम्पशायर और थी  inspired to create music after hearing an album by Stephen Stills .
Critics have compared  lamontagne 's म्यूज़िक to कि of the बैंड  , Van Morrison , Nick Drake , and Tim Buckley .
He lives in  मैसाचुसेट्स साथ उसके  wife and two children .
When the  हवा blows is a  novel by James Patterson .
It is the precursor to The Lake  हाउस और प्रेरित the अधिकतम  Ride series .
The novel is currently  नियत to be adapted  into a movie .
the पिट्सबर्ग  Steelers were founded in 1933 .
Over the course of the team 's history , the team has had several logos while  wearing वस्तुतः the वही वर्दी over the सालो , साथ हल्का परिवर्तन बना to दे the  uniforms an updated look .
The team colors , uniforms , and logo are often ranked as being  among the बेहतरीन in the एनएफएल  .
Facebook on  the ad-tech  2010
Facebook is an online social networking service , whose name stems from the colloquial name for the book given to students at the start of the academic year by some  विश्वविद्यालयों administrations in the संयुक्त राज्य to सहायता विद्यार्थी मिलेंगी to जान  each other .
It was founded in February 2004 by Mark  zuckerberg साथ उसके कॉलेज roommates और fellow हार्वर्ड विश्वविद्यालयों विद्यार्थी एडुआर्डो saverin  , Andrew McCollum , Dustin Moskovitz and Chris Hughes .
The website 's membership was initially limited by the founders to  हार्वर्ड विद्यार्थी , लकिन थी विस्तारित to अन्य कॉलेजों in the  Boston area , the Ivy League , and Stanford University .
It gradually added support for  विद्यार्थी at विभिन्न अन्य विश्वविद्यालयों पहले खोलने to ऊँची स्कूल विद्यार्थी , और  eventually to anyone aged 13 and over .
Facebook now allows any users who declare themselves to be  at तनिक 13 सालो बूढ़ा to become पंजीकृत उपयोक्ता  of the site .
उपयोक्ता जरूर पंजीकरण पहले using the साईट , बाद जिससे वे may बनाएँ a निजी  profile , add other users as friends , and exchange messages , including automatic notifications when they update their profile .
Additionally , users may join common-interest user groups , organized by workplace , school or college , or other  विशेषताएँ , और categorize उनके मित्रों into सूचियाँ ऐसे as `` लोगों इससे कार्य '' or `` बंद मित्रों  '' .
As of  सितंबर 2012 , फेसबुक  has over one billion active users .
according to a may 2011 उपभोक्ता रिपोर्ट्स  survey , there are 7.5 million children under 13 with accounts and 5 million under 10 , violating the site 's terms of service .
In May 2005 , Accel  साझेदार invested $ 12.7 लाख in फेसबुक , और जिम breyer added $ 1 लाख  of his own money to the pot .
A January 2009 Compete.com study ranked Facebook as the most  प्रयुक्त सोशल नेटवर्किंग  service by worldwide monthly active users .
Entertainment Weekly  शामिल the साईट on इसके end-of-the-decade `` best-of ''  list , saying , `` How on earth did we stalk our exes , remember our co-workers ' birthdays , bug our friends , and play a rousing game of Scrabulous before Facebook ? ''
Critics , such as Facebook Detox , state that  फेसबुक रै turned into a नेशनल obsession in the संयुक्त राज्य , resulting  in vast amounts of time lost and encouraging narcissism .
Quantcast  estimates फेसबुक रै  138.9 million monthly unique U.S. visitors in May 2011 .
According to Social Media Today , in April 2010 an estimated 41.6 % (  129.5 लाख ) of the u.S.  population had a Facebook account .
Nevertheless , Facebook 's market growth started to stall  in कुछ regions , साथ the साईट खोने 7 लाख क्रियाशील उपयोक्ता  in the United States and Canada in May 2011 .
Facebook eventually filed for an initial public offering on February 1 , 2012 , and  थी headquartered in मेनलो पार्क ,  California .
Facebook Inc. began selling stock to the public  और व्यापार on the नैस्डैक on may 18 ,  2012 .
Erwin Johannes  eugen ख़बरों ( 15 नवम्बर 1891  – 14 October 1944 ) , popularly known as The Desert Fox ( Wüstenfuchs , ) , was a German Field Marshal of World War II .
He earned the respect of both his own troops and the  दुश्मनों  he fought .
Rommel was a highly  सजा अधिकारी in संसार युद्ध i और थी awarded  the Pour le Mérite for his exploits on the Italian front .
In World War II , he further distinguished himself  as the कमांडर of the 7th panzer प्रभाग  during the 1940 invasion of France .
His leadership of German and Italian forces in the North African campaign established him as one of the most able  कमांडरों of the युद्ध , और अर्जित उसे the appellation of the मरुस्थल फॉक्स  .
He is regarded as one of the most skilled  कमांडरों of मरुस्थल  warfare in the conflict .
He  बाद commanded the जर्मनी शक्तियां opposing the अलाइड  cross-channel invasion in Normandy .
His assignments never  took उसे to the  Eastern Front .
Rommel is  regarded as having महरूम a दयालु और  professional officer .
His  afrika कोर्प्स थी never अभियुक्त of युद्ध अपराधों , और सैनिको  captured during his Africa campaign were reported to have been treated humanely .
Orders to kill Jewish soldiers , civilians and  captured कमांडो यहूद उपेक्षित  .
Late in the war , Rommel was linked to the conspiracy to  assassinate एडोल्फ हिटलर  .
Since Rommel was a  नेशनल नायिका , हिटलर  desired to eliminate him quietly .
He forced Rommel to commit suicide with a cyanide pill , in return for assurances that Rommel 's family would not be persecuted  following उसके मौत .
Stained glass  प्रतिनिधित्व of the पावन स्पिरिट  as a dove , c. 1660 .
The seven gifts of the Holy Spirit is an enumeration of seven spiritual gifts originating with patristic authors ,  बाद elaborated by पाँच बौद्धिक virtues और  four other groups of ethical characteristics .
They are : wisdom , understanding , wonder and awe (  भय of the रब ) , counsel , ज्ञान , fortitude  , and piety ( reverence ) .
The Earth Day Flag , the latest  प्रस्ताव of जॉन mcconnell लिये a ध्वज of  Earth Day
Earth Day is an annual event , celebrated  on अप्रैल 22 , on जिससे कार्यक्रम हैं आयोजित विश्वव्यापी to demonstrate  support for environmental protection .
It was first celebrated in 1970 , and is now coordinated globally by the Earth Day Network , and  मनाये in अधिक than 192 देशों प्रत्येक साल  .
In 1969 at a UNESCO  सम्मेलन in सैन फ्रांसिस्को ,  the date proposed was March 21 , 1970 , the first day of spring in the northern hemisphere .
This day of nature 's equipoise was later  मंजूर in a उदघोषणा हस्ताक्षरित by सचिव सामान्य u thant  at the United Nations .
A month later a separate Earth Day was founded by United States Senator Gaylord Nelson as an environmental teach-in  पहला आयोजित on अप्रैल 22 , 1970  .
Nelson was later awarded the  अध्यक्षीय पदक of स्वतंत्रता पुरस्कार  in recognition of his work .
While this April 22 Earth  दिन थी केन्द्रित on the संयुक्त राज्य , an संगठन शुभारम्भ  by Denis Hayes , who was the original national coordinator in 1970 , took it international in 1990 and organized events in 141 nations .
Numerous communities celebrate  धरती सप्ताह , an संपूर्ण सप्ताह of क्रियाएँ  focused on environmental issues .
Iodine is a  रासायनिक तत्व साथ प्रतीक  I and atomic number 53 .
The name is from Greek  ioeidēs , अर्थ बैंगनी or जामुनी , due  to the color of elemental iodine vapor .
Iodine  और इसके यौगिकों हैं primarily प्रयुक्त in पोषण , और  industrially in the production of acetic acid and certain polymers .
Iodine 's relatively high atomic number , low toxicity , and ease of attachment to organic compounds have  बना it a भाग of अनेक x-ray कंट्रास्ट सामग्री in आधुनिक  medicine .
आयोडीन रै तभी  one stable isotope .
A number of iodine radioisotopes are also used  in चिकित्सा अनुप्रयोग  .
Iodine is found on Earth mainly as the highly water-soluble iodide ion , I− , which concentrates  it in महासागर  and brine pools .
Like the other halogens , free iodine occurs mainly as a diatomic  अणु i2 , और तब तभी momentarily बाद  being oxidized from iodide by an oxidant like free oxygen .
In the universe and on Earth , iodine 's high atomic number  makes it a अपेक्षाकृत विरल तत्व  .
However , its  उपस्थिति in समंदर जल  has given it a role in biology .
It is the heaviest essential element utilized widely by life in biological functions  ( तभी टंगस्टन , employed in एंजाइमों by a few प्रजाति of जीवाणु , is अत्यधिक  ) .
Iodine 's rarity in many soils , due to initial low abundance as a crust-element , and also leaching of  घुलनशील आयोडाइड by rainwater , रै led to अनेक कमियां समस्याएं in जमीन पशु और अंतर्देशीय इंसान populations  .
Iodine deficiency  affects परिचय दो अरब लोगों और is the अग्रणी  preventable cause of intellectual disabilities .
Iodine is required by higher  पशु , जिससे उपयोग it to synthesize थायराइड  hormones , which contain the element .
Because of this function , radioisotopes of iodine are  concentrated in the थायराइड ग्रंथि साथ साथ  nonradioactive iodine .
If inhaled , the radioisotope iodine-131 , which  रै a ऊँची परिवर्द्धन उत्पाद उपज , concentrates in the  thyroid , but is easily remedied with potassium iodide treatment .
Lobbying ( also lobby  ) is the अधिनियम of attempting to influence निर्णय बना  by officials in the government , most often legislators or members of regulatory agencies .
Lobbying is done by many different types of people and  व्यवस्थित समूह , सहित individuals in the निजी सेक्टर , corporations , fellow विधायक  or government officials , or advocacy groups ( interest groups ) .
Lobbyists may be among a legislator 's constituencies , meaning a voter or bloc of voters within his or her electoral  ज़िला , or नहीं ; वे may engage in lobbying as a कारोबार , or  not .
Professional lobbyists are people whose business is trying to  influence विधान on निमित्त of  a group or individual who hires them .
Individuals and nonprofit organizations can also lobby as an act of volunteering or as a small part of their normal job ( for  उदाहरण , a सीईओ बैठक साथ a प्रतिनिधि परिचय a प्रोजेक्ट महत्वपूर्ण to his/her कम्पनी ,  or an activist meeting with his/her legislator in an unpaid capacity ) .
सरकारें प्रायः define और विनियमित  organized group lobbying that has become influential .
The  आचार और नैतिकता  of lobbying are .
lobbying is प्रायः बोला of साथ अवमानना , जब the implication is कि लोगों साथ अत्यधिक socioeconomic  power are corrupting the law ( twisting it away from fairness ) in order to serve their own conflict of interest .
But another side of lobbying is making sure that others ' interests are duly  defended विरूद्ध अन्य ' भ्रष्टाचार , or भी बस बनाना यकीनन कि अल्पसंख्यक रूचि  are fairly defended against mere tyranny of the majority .
For example , a medical association , or a  व्यापार संघ of स्वास्थ्य बीमे कंपनियाँ , may लॉबी a विधानमंडल in अनुक्रम to counteract the influence  of tobacco companies , in which case the lobbying would be viewed by most people as justified ( duly defending against others ' corruption ) .
The difficulty in drawing objective lines between which lobbyists are `` good lobbyists '' and which ones are `` bad ones '' is compounded by the  cleverness साथ जिससे lobbyists or उनके क्लाइंट can argue कि उनके अपना lobbying is of the  `` good '' kind .
At  दिल , the प्रयत्न to influence  legislation is a power struggle .
As in other forms of power struggle , such as war or law enforcement , motives range  इससे to self-defense to लड़ लिये इंसाफ , और the dividing लकीर between  predation and justice is subject to rationalization .
सनशाइन of अपना  love guitar riff
Cream were a 1960s British rock supergroup consisting of bassist/vocalist  जोकर ब्रूस , guitarist/vocalist eric क्लैप्टन , और  drummer Ginger Baker .
Their sound was characterised by a hybrid of blues rock , hard rock and psychedelic rock ,  combining the psychedelia-themed गीत , eric क्लैप्टन 's ब्लूज़ गिटार playing और vocals , जोकर ब्रूस 's आवाज़  and prominent bass playing and Ginger Baker 's jazz -influenced drumming .
The group 's third album , Wheels of Fire ,  थी the संसार 's पहला platinum-selling दोगुना एल्बम  .
Cream are  widely regarded as होने the संसार  's first successful supergroup .
In their  करियर , वे बेची  over 15 million albums worldwide .
Cream 's music included songs based on traditional blues such as ``  क्रॉसरोड्स `` और `` spoonful `` , और आधुनिक ब्लूज़ ऐसे as `` born अंतर्गत a ख़राब चिह्न `` , as खूब  as more eccentric songs such as `` Strange Brew `` , `` Tales of Brave Ulysses `` and `` Toad `` .
Cream 's biggest hits were `` I Feel Free `` ( UK , number 11 ) , `` Sunshine of Your  प्रेम `` ( us , क्रमांक 5 ) , `` श्वेत रूम `` ( us , क्रमांक 6 ) , `` क्रॉसरोड्स '' ( us , क्रमांक  28 ) , and `` Badge `` ( UK , number 18 ) .
Cream made a significant impact on the popular music of the time , and , along with Jimi  हेंड्रिक्स , और टेरी कठ of शिकागो , popularised the उपयोग  of the wah-wah pedal .
They provided a heavy yet technically proficient  musical थीम कि foreshadowed और बहकावे the emergence of  British bands such as The Jeff Beck Group in the late 1960s .
The  बैंड 's सजीव प्रदर्शन  influenced progressive rock acts such as Rush .
Cream were inducted  into the चट्टान और  Roll Hall of Fame in 1993 .
They were included in both Rolling Stone and VH1 's lists of the  `` 100 महानतम कलाकारों of सब समय ''  .
They were also ranked number 16 on  vh1 's `` 100 महानतम  Artists of Hard Rock '' .
Hairspray is a 1988 comedy film written and directed by John Waters  , और अभिनीत ricki झील , सन्नी बोनो , डिब्बी हैरी , माइकल st. जेरार्ड  , Shawn Thompson , Colleen Fitzpatrick , Jerry Stiller , and in his last film role , Divine .
Hairspray was a dramatic departure from Waters ' earlier works ,  साथ a much broader intended दर्शक  .
In fact , Hairsprays PG is the mildest rating a Waters film has received ; most of his previous films  यहूद रेटेड x by the mpaa  .
Set in 1962 Baltimore ,  मेरीलैंड , the फिल्मी घूमती around self-proclaimed `` pleasantly plump ''  teenager Tracy Turnblad as she pursues stardom as a dancer on a local TV show and rallies against racial segregation .
Hairspray was  तभी a मॉडरेट कामयाबी  upon its initial theatrical release , earning a modest gross of $ 8 million .
However , it managed to attract a  larger दर्शक on घर वीडियो in the जल्दी 1990s  and became a cult classic .
Most critics praised the film , although some were displeased  साथ the overall campiness  .
In 2002 , the film was adapted into a Broadway musical of the same name , which won eight Tony Awards ,  सहित  Best Musical in 2003 .
A second film version of Hairspray , an adaptation of the stage  musical , थी भी released by नई लकीर सिनेमा in 2007 , जिससे शामिल अनेक परिवर्तन of  scripted items from the original .
The film also ranks # 444 on Empire  पत्रिका 's 2008 सूची of the 500 महानतम फिल्मों of सब  time .
A Christian  denomination is an identifiable धार्मिक  body under a common name , structure , and doctrine within Christianity .
Some groups included do not consider themselves a denomination ( e.g. , the Catholic  गिरिजाघर considers itself the एक सच्चा गिरिजाघर और the अपोस्टोलिक देखिए  , and as pre-denominational ) .
Some groups viewed by non-adherents as  denominational actively resist होने पुकारा a  denomination and do not have any formal denominational structure , authority , or record-keeping beyond the local congregation ; several groups within Restoration Movement fall into this category .
Some groups are large ( e.g . Catholics , Lutherans , Anglicans or Baptists ) , while others  हैं बस a few छोटी चर्च , और in सबसे मामले the सापेक्ष आकार is  not evident in this list .
Modern movements such as Fundamentalist Christianity , Pietism , Evangelicalism , Pentecostalism and the Holiness movement sometimes  क्रॉस denominational लाइनों , or in कुछ मामले बनाएँ नई denominations आउट of दो or अधिक continuing समूह , ( as is the मामला लिये अनेक संयुक्त और uniting चर्च , लिये उदाहरण  ) .
Such subtleties and  complexities हैं नहीं clearly  depicted here .
प्रमुख विभाजन  within Christianity .
Note : This is not a complete list , but aims to provide a  comprehensible अवलोकन of the विविधता  among denominations of Christianity .
As there are reported to be approximately 41,000 Christian denominations , many  of जिससे can नहीं be सत्यापित to be significant , तभी those denominations साथ विकिपीडिया  articles will be listed in order to ensure that all entries on this list are notable and verifiable .
Between denominations , theologians , and  तुलनात्मक religionists वहीँ हैं considerable मतभिन्नता परिचय जिससे समूह can be  properly called Christian , disagreements arising primarily from doctrinal differences between groups .
For the purpose of simplicity , this list is intended to reflect the  self-understanding of प्रत्येक denomination  .
Explanations of different opinions concerning their status as  ईसाई denominations can be मिला at उनके संबंधित  articles .
There is no official recognition in most parts of  the संसार लिये धार्मिक लाशें , और वहीँ is no आधिकारिक clearinghouse  which could determine the status or respectability of religious bodies .
Often there is considerable  असहमति between विभिन्न चर्च परिचय whether अन्य चर्च चाहिए  be labeled with pejorative terms such as `` cult '' , or about whether this or that group enjoys some measure of respectability .
Such considerations often vary from place to place , where one religious group may enjoy majority status in one region  , लकिन be widely regarded as a `` खतरनाक cult '' in another  part of the world .
Inclusion on this list does not  indicate कोई निर्णय परिचय the आकार , महत्व , or  character of a group or its members .
1804 map of ``  louisiana `` , edged on the वेस्ट  by the Rocky Mountains .
The Louisiana Purchase ( `` Sale of Louisiana '' ) was the acquisition by the United  राज्य of अमेरिका in 1803 of of फ़्रांस 's अर्जी to the territory of louisiana  .
The U.S. paid  50 लाख francs ( $ 11 ,250,000 ) प्लस रद्दीकरण  of debts worth 18 million francs ( $ 3,750,000 ) , for a total sum of 15 million dollars ( less than 3 cents per acre ) for the Louisiana territory ( $ million in dollars , less than 42 cents per acre ) .
The  louisiana territory encompassed  all or part of 15 present U.S. states and two Canadian provinces .
The land purchased contained all of present-day Arkansas , Missouri , Iowa , Oklahoma , Kansas , and Nebraska ; parts of Minnesota that were west of the Mississippi River ; most of North Dakota ; most of South Dakota ; northeastern New Mexico ; northern Texas ; the portions of Montana , Wyoming , and  कोलोराडो ईस्ट of the महाद्वीपीय divide ; louisiana वेस्ट of the मिसिसिपी नदी , सहित the नगर of नई ऑरलियन्स ; और छोटी portions of जमीन कि होता आखिरकार become भाग of the कनाडाई प्रांतों of अलबर्टा और  Saskatchewan .
France  नियंत्रित इस विशाल क्षेत्रफल इससे 1699 जबतक 1762  , the year it gave the territory to its ally Spain .
Under Napoleon  बोनापार्ट , फ़्रांस took वापस the territory in 1800 in the  hope of building an empire in North America .
A slave revolt in Haiti and an impending war with Britain , however , led France to abandon these plans and sell the entire  territory to the संयुक्त राज्य , जो था originally intended तभी to तलाश the खरीदें of नई ऑरलियन्स और इसके सटा  lands .
the खरीदें of the territory of louisiana  took place during the presidency of Thomas Jefferson .
At the  समय , the खरीदें faced घरेलू  opposition because it was thought to be unconstitutional .
Although he agreed that the U.S. Constitution did not contain provisions for acquiring territory , Jefferson decided to go ahead with the  खरीदें वैसे in अनुक्रम to हटाएँ फ़्रांस 's उपस्थिति in the प्रदेश और to protect  both U.S. trade access to the port of New Orleans and free passage on the Mississippi River .
Ceremony at Place d'Armes , New Orleans marking  ट्रांसफ़र of louisiana to the संयुक्त राज्य , 10 कूच  1804 , as depicted by Thure de Thulstrup .
`` Cool Jerk '' is a  लोकप्रिय सोंग लिखा by डोनाल्ड storball  and originally performed by The Capitols .
Released in 1966 , it reached No . 2 on  the अमरीकी r & b चार्ट  and No . 7 on the pop chart .
The backing track for this song was actually recorded  ( secretly ) by the motown हाउस  band The Funk Brothers .
Per one of the Funk Brothers , the  सोंग थी originally to be पुकारा `` pimp  Jerk . ''
This was taken from watching  पड़ोस pimps , जो होता नृत्य in the  clubs , but were too `` cool '' to do the jerk like regular folks .
Their version  थी subsequently  named `` the Pimp Jerk . ''
The producer was afraid that a song with the  शब्द pimp in the शीर्षक होता be बैन or नहीं प्राप्त  much positive attention , and had the title changed to its current form .
The Go-Go 's , Todd Rundgren , Big  ट्रबल , इंसान यौन जवाब , the la de da 's , the सृष्टि ,  and The Coasters have covered the song .
Todd Rundgren did his version in an odd  समय हस्ताक्षर ( 7/4 ) , giving an obviously  jerky feel to the song .
The Go-Go 's covered the song for their 1982 album Vacation and  बाद re-recorded it लिये उनके 1990  album Greatest .
In the feature  फिल्मी घर अलोन 2 : खोया  in New York , Uncle Frank ( Gerry Bamman ) sings `` Cool Jerk '' in the shower .
A version of the song with different lyrics ( `` Do the Cool Whip '' ) is used  in कूल चाबुक commercials  .
a रिकॉर्डिंग of `` कूल झटका '' by रिकार्डो  Ray is featured in the feature film Donnie Brasco ( 1997 ) .
The song features in the film Standing in the Shadows of Motown ,  performed by the दुर्गंध भाइयो साथ सीसे vocals  by Bootsy Collins .
the सोंग is सुना briefly in the  animated feature , Madagascar 3 : Europe 's Most Wanted .
Despite this reason , it is listed  in कुछ विसंगतियाँ of  the film 's soundtrack .
A league is a unit of  लंबाई ( or , rarely  , area ) .
It was  long आम in यूरोपीय और लैटिन अमेरिका , लकिन it  is no longer an official unit in any nation .
The league originally referred to the distance a  व्यक्ति could चलना in an घंटा  .
चूंकि the मध्य आयु , अनेक मान have महरूम निर्दिष्ट  in several countries .
In the context of  nautical दूरियाँ , the 3 मील (  4.8 km ) distance corresponds to how far an observer of average height ( 5'9 '' or 1.78 m ) can see when standing at sea level .
Thus , a ship traveling one `` league '' has  पहुँचे कया थी  previously the farthest visible distance on the horizon .
The lack of a historical and global standard for the exact measure of a `` league '' can be accounted for  by the परिवर्तनीय उन्नयन of the निरीक्षक  ( i.e. , sightings from a ship 's deck vs. masthead ) .
The Irish state came into being  in 1922 as the आयरिश फ़्री राज्य , a डोमिनियन  of the British Commonwealth , having seceded from the United Kingdom under the Anglo-Irish Treaty .
It comprises 26 of Ireland  's 32 काउंटी  .
Since 1949 it has  existed as the गणतंत्र of  Ireland .
From its foundation , the Irish Free State was embroiled in a civil war between  राष्ट्रवादियों supporting the सन्धि और प्रतिद्वंद्वियों जो समर्थित  a republic .
The  pro-treaty पक्ष , संगठित  as Cumann na nGaedheal emerged victorious from the conflict and won subsequent elections .
They formed the government of the state until 1932 , when they  शांतिपूर्वक हात over शक्ति to the anti-treaty गुट in fianna fáil , जो  defeated them in an election .
The Irish state ,  despite इसके हिंसक beginnings , रै remained a उदार  democracy throughout its existence .
A new constitution in 1937 removed many of the  कड़ी साथ ब्रिटेन स्थापित अंतर्गत the सन्धि और  Ireland 's neutrality in the Second World War demonstrated its independence in foreign policy matters from Britain .
In 1948 Ireland formally  बाएँ the अंग्रेजों राष्ट्रमंडल  and adopted the title of `` Republic '' .
In the economic  गोला , the आयरिश राज्य  has had a mixed performance .
On independence , it was  एक of the wealthier देशों  in Europe per head of population .
However it also  inherited इससे अंग्रेजों नियम the समस्याएं of बेरोजगारी  , emigration , uneven geographical development and lack of a native industrial base .
For much of its  इतिहास , the राज्य struggled to rectify  these problems .
Particular peaks of  करणों यहूद अंकित दौरान the लेट 1930s ,  1950s and 1980s , when the Irish economy recorded little growth .
In the 1930s , Fianna Fáil governments attempted to create Irish domestic industries using  subsidies और सुरक्षात्मक  tarifs .
In the late 1950s , these policies were dropped in  पक्ष of फ़्री व्यापार साथ चयनित देशों और प्रोत्साहित of विदेशी निवेश  with low taxes .
This was  विस्तारित जब आयरलैंड डाला  the European Economic Community in 1972 .
In  the 1990s और 2000s , आयरलैंड अनुभवी an आर्थिक बूम ज्ञात  as the Celtic Tiger , in which the country 's GDP surpassed many of its European neighbours .
Immigration also  surpassed करणों , bringing the राज्य 's जनसांख्यिकी up to  over 4 million .
However , since 2008 , Ireland has experienced a severe crisis  in the बैंकिंग सेक्टर और साथ sovereign  debt .
The resultant economic slump has deepened the effect  of the संसार मंदी on  Ireland .
From 1937 to 1998 , the Irish constitution included a claim on Northern Ireland  as a भाग of the नेशनल territory .
However , the state also opposed  और प्रयुक्त इसके सुरक्षा शक्तियां विरूद्ध those हथियारबंद समूह - प्रधानतया  the Provisional Irish Republican Army , who tried to unite Ireland by force .
This occurred in  the 1950s , throughout the 1970s  and 1980s and has continued on a reduced scale .
Irish governments meanwhile tried to broker an agreement to the conflict  ज्ञात as the परेशानियों भीतर उत्तरी आयरलैंड इससे 1968 to the  late 1990s .
The British government  officially recognised the सही of the आयरिश सरकारी to be a पार्टी  to the Northern negotiations in the Anglo-Irish Agreement of 1985 .
In 1998 , as part of the  शुभ शुक्रवार अनुबंध , the आयरिश संविधान थी altered by referendum to हटाएँ the territorial अर्जी to उत्तरी आयरलैंड  and instead extend the right of Irish citizenship to all the people of the island should they wish to have it .
John  क्विंसी एडम्स ( जुलाई 11 , 1767february 23 , 1848 ) थी  the sixth President of the United States ( 1825–1829 ) .
He served as American  राजनयिक , सीनेटर , और congressional  representative .
He was a member of the Federalist ,  democratic-republican , नेशनल रिपब्लिकन ,  and later Anti-Masonic and Whig parties .
Adams was the son of former  अध्यक्ष जॉन एडम्स और  Abigail Adams .
As a diplomat , Adams  निभाई an महत्वपूर्ण भूमिका in  negotiating many international treaties , most notably the Treaty of Ghent , which ended the War of 1812 .
As Secretary of  राज्य , he negotiated साथ the संयुक्त किंगडम over अमेरिका 's उत्तरी  border with Canada , negotiated with Spain the annexation of Florida , and authored the Monroe Doctrine .
इतिहासकारों सहमत he थी एक of the महानतम राजनयिकों  and secretaries of state in American history .
As president , he sought to modernize the  अमरीकी अर्थव्यवस्था और प्रचारित  education .
Adams  enacted a भाग of उसके कार्यसूची और  paid off much of the national debt .
He was stymied by a Congress controlled  by उसके दुश्मनों , और उसके  lack of patronage networks helped politicians eager to undercut him .
He lost his  1828 बोली लिये re-election to  Andrew Jackson .
In doing  so , he became the पहला अध्यक्ष  since his father to serve a single term .
Adams is best known as a diplomat who shaped America 's  विदेशी नीति in लकीर साथ उसके ardently राष्ट्रवादी प्रतिबद्धता to अमेरिका  's republican values .
More  recently होवे ( 2007 ) portrayed एडम्स  as the exemplar and moral leader in an era of modernization .
During Adams '  आजीवन , technological नवप्रवर्तनों और नई अर्थात् of संचार स्प्रेड संदेश  of religious revival , social reform , and party politics .
Goods ,  धन , और लोगों traveled अधिक  rapidly and efficiently than ever before .
Adams was elected a U.S. Representative from Massachusetts after  leaving दफ्तर , सेवारत लिये the पिछला 17 सालो of उसके जीवन साथ  far greater acclamation than he had achieved as president .
He is , so far , the only president later elected to the United  राज्य हाउस of प्रतिनिधि ( हालांकि जॉन टायलर थी निर्वाचित to  the House of Representatives of the Confederate States just before his death in 1862 ) .
Animated by his growing revulsion  विरूद्ध गुलामी , एडम्स became a अग्रणी  opponent of the Slave Power .
He predicted that if a civil war were to break out , the president could abolish  गुलामी by using उसके युद्ध शक्तियां  .
Adams also predicted the Union 's dissolution over the slavery issue , but said that  if the दक्षिण became स्वतंत्र वहीँ होता be a श्रेणी  of bloody slave revolts .
Windows  अंतरजाल एक्सप्लोरर 9  ( IE9 ) is a version of the Internet Explorer web browser from Microsoft .
It was released to the public on  कूच 14 ,  2011 .
Microsoft has released Internet Explorer  9 as a प्रमुख out-of-band संस्करण कि is नहीं tied to the  release schedule of any particular version of Windows , unlike previous versions .
it is the पहला संस्करण चूंकि अंतरजाल एक्सप्लोरर 2 to नहीं be bundled साथ a खिड़कियाँ  operating system , although some OEMs have installed it with Windows 7 on their PCs , as well as new Windows 7 laptops .
The system requirements for Internet Explorer 9 are Windows 7 , Windows Server 2008 R2 , Windows Vista Service Pack  2 or खिड़कियाँ सर्वर 2008 sp2 साथ the मंच  Update .
Windows XP and  पहले हैं  not supported .
Internet Explorer 9 is the last version of Internet  एक्सप्लोरर to be समर्थित on खिड़कियाँ विस्टा  .
Both IA-32  और x64 builds हैं  available .
Internet Explorer 9 supports several CSS 3 properties , embedded  आईसीसी v2 or v4 रंग प्रोफ़ाइल support via खिड़कियाँ  Color System , and has improved JavaScript performance .
It is the last of the five major web  browsers to implement support लिये स्केलेबल वेक्टर ग्राफिक्स  ( SVG ) .
It also features hardware-accelerated graphics rendering  using direct2d , hardware-accelerated टेक्स्ट रेंडरिंग using directwrite , hardware-accelerated वीडियो रेंडरिंग  using Media Foundation , imaging support provided by Windows Imaging Component , and high fidelity printing powered by the XML Paper Specification ( XPS ) print pipeline .
Internet Explorer 9 also supports the  html5 वीडियो और ऑडियो  tags and the Web Open Font Format .
Alka-Seltzer is an effervescent antacid and pain reliever first marketed by  the dr . मील आयुर्विज्ञान कम्पनी  .
It was developed  by मौरिस treener , सिर  chemist at Miles , in Elkhart , Indiana .
alka-seltzer is marketed लिये राहत of नाबालिग aches ,  pains , inflammation , fever , headache , heartburn , sour stomach , indigestion , and hangovers , while neutralizing excess stomach acid .
It was  शुभारम्भ  in 1931 .
A spin-off of Alka-Seltzer made to relieve colds and flu ,  alka-seltzer प्लस , थी बाद introduced  .
A  short-lived antacid non-aspirin रूपांतर , alka-mints  , was introduced in 1994 and discontinued in 1997 .
Alka-Seltzer is  फिलहाल स्वामित्व by बायर  Schering Pharma AG , Germany .
The name `` Alka-Seltzer '' has been extended to incorporate an entire line of medications sold over the counter and taken by means of rapidly  dissolving टैबलेट कि रूप a कार्बोनेटेड समाधान in जल  .
Cherry Alka  seltzer प्लस टैब्लेट dissolving  in water
Image showing the six most common  speleothems साथ लेबल्स  .
Enlarge  to दृश्य लेबल्स  .
A stalactite ( , ; from the Greek stalasso , ( σταλάσσω ) , `` to drip '' , and meaning ``  कि जिससे drips '' ) is a प्रकार of speleothem ( द्वितीयक खनिज  ) that hangs from the ceiling of limestone caves .
It is a type of  dripstone  .
The  सम्बन्धित गठन on the  floor of the cave is known as a stalagmite .
उपाधि abbreviations हैं प्रयुक्त as an वैकल्पिक रास्ता to बताएँ an अकादमिक  degree instead of spelling out the title in full , such as in reference books like Who 's Who and on business cards .
Many degrees have more  than एक संक्षिप्त  .
In the UK , it is not  generally the कस्टम to punctuate abbreviations लिये डिग्री साथ  full stops ( e.g . `` BSc '' rather than `` B.Sc . `` .
Race is a classification system used to  categorize इंसानो into विशाल और पृथक  populations or groups by anatomical , cultural , ethnic , genetic , geographical , historical , linguistic , religious , or social affiliation .
First used to  denote नेशनल संबद्धों , the पद  began to be used to relate to physical traits in the 17th century .
In the early 20th century the  पद थी प्रायः प्रयुक्त , in a taxonomic भाव  , to denote genetically differentiated human populations defined by phenotype .
While biologists sometimes use the concept of race to make distinctions among  फजी सेट of traits , अन्य in the वैज्ञानिक जातियाँ सुझाएँ कि the विचार of रेस प्रायः  is used in a naive or simplistic way , i.e . that among humans , race has no taxonomic significance : all living humans belong to the same species , Homo sapiens and subspecies , Homo sapiens sapiens .
Social conceptions and groupings of races vary over  समय , involving लोक taxonomies
that define of individuals based on  आभास traits  .
Scientists consider biological essentialism  obsolete , और generally discourage जातिगत स्पष्टीकरण लिये सामूहिक  differentiation in both physical and behavioral traits .
Since the second half of the 20th century the associations of race with the ideologies and theories that grew out of the work of  19th-century विज्ञानियों और physiologists रै led to the उपयोग of  the word race itself becoming problematic .
Although still used in general contexts ,  it is अभी प्रायः replaced by अन्य शब्द जिससे हैं कम अस्पष्ट और  emotionally charged , such as populations , people ( s ) , ethnic groups or communities depending on context .
Lucy Stone ( August 13 , 1818 – October 19 ,  1893 ) थी a prominent अमरीकी abolitionist और suffragist , और  a vocal advocate and organizer promoting rights for women .
In 1847 , Stone became  the पहला स्त्री इससे मैसाचुसेट्स to  earn a college degree .
She spoke out  लिये महिलाओं 's अधिकारों और विरूद्ध गुलामी  at a time when women were discouraged and prevented from public speaking .
Stone was the first recorded American woman to  retain उसके अपना पिछला नाम बाद  marriage .
Stone 's organizational activities for the  कारण of महिलाओं 's अधिकारों yielded ठोस  gains in the difficult political environment of the 19th century .
Stone helped initiate the first National Women  's अधिकारों सम्मेलन और वो समर्थित और sustained it  annually along with a number of other local , state and regional activist conventions .
Stone spoke in front of a number of legislative bodies to promote laws  giving अधिक अधिकारों to महिलाओं .
She assisted in  establishing the स्त्री 's नेशनल वफ़ादार लीग to सहायता pass the तेरहवीं amendment  and thereby abolish slavery , after which she helped form the largest group of like-minded women 's rights reformers , the politically moderate American Woman Suffrage Association , which worked for decades at the state level in favor of women 's right to vote .
Stone wrote extensively about a wide range of women 's rights ,  प्रकाशन और distributing भाषणों by herself और अन्य , और  convention proceedings .
In the long-running and influential Woman 's Journal , a weekly periodical that she established and  प्रचारित , स्टोन aired दोनो उसके अपना और differing दृश्य  about women 's rights .
Called `` the orator '' and `` the morning  स्टार of the स्त्री 's अधिकारों गति '' , स्टोन वितरित a वाक  which sparked Susan B. Anthony to take up the cause of women 's suffrage .
Elizabeth Cady Stanton wrote  कि `` लुसी स्टोन थी the पहला व्यक्ति by जिसको  the heart of the American public was deeply stirred on the woman question . ''
Together , Anthony , Stanton , and Stone have been called the  19th सदी `` triumvirate `` of महिलाओं 's suffrage  and feminism .
In finance , a bond is an instrument of indebtedness  of the बंध जारीकर्ता to the  holders .
It is a debt security , under  जिससे the जारीकर्ता owes the धारकों a कर्ज़ और , depending on the शर्तें of the  bond , is obliged to pay them interest ( the coupon ) or to repay the principal at a later date , termed the maturity .
Interest is usually payable at fixed intervals (  semiannual , सालाना , sometimes मासिक )  .
Very  प्रायः the बंध is परक्राम्य , i.e . the स्वामित्व  of the instrument can be transferred in the secondary market .
Thus a bond is a form of loan or IOU :  the होल्डर of the बंध is the lender ( creditor  ) , the issuer of the bond is the borrower ( debtor ) , and the coupon is the interest .
Bonds  provide the borrower साथ बाह्य निधि to  finance long-term investments , or , in the case of government bonds , to finance current expenditure .
Certificates of deposit ( CDs ) or short term commercial paper are considered  to be धन मार्केट यंत्र और नहीं bonds : the प्रमुख अंतर is  in the length of the term of the instrument .
Bonds and stocks are both securities , but the major difference between the two is that ( capital ) stockholders have an equity stake in the company  ( i.e . वे हैं स्वामी ) , whereas bondholders have a creditor हिस्सेदारी in the कम्पनी ( i.e . वे हैं lenders )  .
Another difference is that bonds usually have a defined term , or maturity , after  जिससे the बंध is redeemed , whereas स्टॉक्स may be बकाया  indefinitely .
An exception is an irredeemable bond , such as Consols  , जिससे is a perpetuity  , i.e . a bond with no maturity .
A scale model of  the मीनार  of London .
This  मॉडल can be मिला  inside the tower .
Scale  मॉडल of जल संचालित  turbine
L to R with 12 inch ruler at bottom : 1:64  matchbox शेवरलेट tahoe , 1:43 घाट f-100 , 1:25 revell monogram 1999 घाट  Mustang Cobra , 1:18 Bburago 1987 Ferrari F40
Model  जहाजों और  castle
A scale model is a physical model , a representation or copy of an object that is larger or smaller than the actual size of the object ,  जिससे seeks to maintain the सापेक्ष proportions ( the स्केल फ़ैक्टर ) of the शारीरिक आकार of the असली ऑब्जेक्ट  .
Very often the scale model is used as a guide to making the  ऑब्जेक्ट in पूरा आकार  .
Scale models  हैं निर्मित or एकत्रित  for many reasons .
The Zune HD was a portable media player in the Zune  उत्पाद परिवार released on सितंबर 15 , 2009  by Microsoft .
It was a direct competitor  साथ the ठहराना  iPod and iPhone series of mobile devices .
It was  initially released in 16  and 32 GB capacities .
A 64  gb संस्करण थी  released on April 9 , 2010 .
It utilized a touchscreen interface for navigation  और शामिल wi-fi लिये तुल्यकालन , अभिगम  to the Zune Marketplace and Web browsing .
The Zune HD utilized the  nvidia tegra apx 2600 चिप , allowing it to खेल 720p वीडियो through the वैकल्पिक  HDMI Zune dock on a high-definition television .
Otherwise , content would  be scaled bas to 480x272 पिक्सेल  on the player 's OLED touchscreen .
Old Sparky , the electric chair  प्रयुक्त at गाओ  Sing prison
Execution by electrocution , usually performed using an electric chair , is an execution  विधि originating in the संयुक्त राज्य in जिससे the condemned व्यक्ति is  strapped to a specially built wooden chair and electrocuted through electrodes placed on the body .
This execution method was created by employees of Thomas Edison during  the युद्ध of currents , और रै महरूम प्रयुक्त तभी in the संयुक्त राज्य और , लिये a काल of अनेक दशकों , in  the Philippines ( its first use there in 1924 under American occupation , last in 1976 ) .
Historically , once the condemned person was attached to the chair ,  विभिन्न चक्र ( differing in वोल्टेज और अवधि ) of प्रत्यावर्ती  current would be passed through the individual 's body , in order to cause fatal damage to the internal organs ( including the brain ) .
The first jolt of electric current  थी designed to कारण तात्कालिक  unconsciousness and brain death ; the second one was designed to cause fatal damage to the vital organs .
Death  थी अक्सर caused  by electrical overstimulation of the heart .
Although in the United States the electric chair has become a symbol of  the मौत दंड , इसके उपयोग is in मनाही due to the वृद्धि of lethal इंजेक्शन , जिससे is  widely believed to be a more humane method of execution .
Although some states still maintain electrocution as a method of  निष्पादन , आज it is तभी कायम as a  secondary method that may be chosen over lethal injection at the request of the prisoner .
As  of 2010 , electrocution is an वैकल्पिक रूप  of execution in Alabama , Florida , South Carolina and Virginia .
They allow  the कैदी  to choose lethal injection as an alternative method .
In the states of Kentucky and Tennessee , the electric chair has been retired except for those whose capital crimes were committed prior to  legislated तिथियाँ in 1998 ( केंटकी : कूच 31 , 1998 ; टेनेसी  : December 31 , 1998 ) and who chose electrocution .
In both states , inmates who do not choose electrocution or inmates who  वचनबद्ध उनके अपराधों बाद the designated तिथि हैं मारे  by lethal injection .
The electric chair  is an वैकल्पिक रूप of निष्पादन स्वीकृत लिये संभावित उपयोग in अरकंसास और ओक्लाहोमा  if other forms of execution are found unconstitutional in the state at the time of execution .
It is the sole method of execution in Vermont , where  देशद्रोह is the तभी  capital crime .
On February 8 , 2008 ,  the नेब्रास्का परम् अदालत  determined that execution by electric chair was a `` cruel and unusual punishment '' under the state 's constitution .
This brought executions of this type to an end in Nebraska , the only remaining state to retain  electrocution as इसके एकमात्र विधि of निष्पादन लिये  murder .
The Maryland House of Delegates is the lower house of the General Assembly , the state legislature of the American State  of मेरीलैंड , और is रचित of 141 delegates  elected from 47 districts .
The House of Delegates Chamber is located in the Maryland State House ( state  कैपिटल ) on राज्य वृत्त in annapolis , जिससे is the राज्य  capital .
The State House  भी घरों the मेरीलैंड राज्य सीनेट कक्ष और  the offices of the Governor and Lieutenant Governor of the State of Maryland .
Each Delegate has offices in Annapolis  , in the आसपास कैस्पर R. टेलर , jr. हाउस  Office Building .
The Liberation of Paris ( also known as the Battle  लिये पेरिस ) took प्लेस दौरान संसार युद्ध ii इससे 19 अगस्त 1944 जबतक the आत्मसमर्पण of the  occupying German garrison on 25 August .
The Liberation of Paris started with an uprising by the French  प्रतिरोध विरूद्ध the जर्मनी  garrison .
On 24 August , the French Forces of the Interior ( Forces françaises de l'intérieur , FFI ) received reinforcements from the  फ़्री फ्रेंच फौज of मुक्ति और इससे the u.S. तीसरा फौज अंतर्गत सामान्य patton  .
The capital region of France had been governed by Nazi Germany since the signing of the Second Compiègne Armistice in  जून 1940 , जब the जर्मनी फौज occupied उत्तरी और westernmost फ़्रांस , और जब the कठपुतली शासन of vichy फ़्रांस  was established in the town of Vichy in central France .
This battle marked  the मुक्ति of पेरिस  and the exile of the Vichy government to Sigmaringen in Germany .
However , there was still much heavy fighting to be done before France was liberated , including the campaign in southern France during  august-september ( in provence और extending into the southwestern प्रदेश of the vosges kyu ) , साथ the german-held seaports of पश्चिमी फ़्रांस ( ऐसे as at brest और dunkirk  ) , in Alsace and Lorraine in eastern France , and in northeastern France , such as along the Rhine and Moder Rivers .
The German Army and  ss लड़ा doggedly in ये क्षेत्रों  for the remainder of 1944 and into 1945 .
`` Feelin ' Alright ? '' also known as `` Feeling  alright '' is a सोंग लिखा by डेव मेसन of the अंग्रेज़ी  rock band Traffic from their eponymous 1968 album , Traffic .
The song was also a  hit सिंगल लिये अनेक performers : जो cocker  ( 1969 , # 69 , recharted in 1972 , US # 33 ) , Mongo Santamaría ( 1969 , # 95 ) and Grand Funk Railroad ( 1971 , US # 54 ) .
It has also been recorded by Three Dog Night ( 1969 ) , The 5th Dimension ( 1970 ) , Lou Rawls , Freddie King , Paul Weller , Lulu , Chairmen of the Board ( 1970 ) , Rare Earth , The Electric Concept Orchestra , Mother 's  finest ( 1973 ) , the ओहियो खिलाड़ी ( 1971 ) , डायना रॉस साथ the जैक्सन  5 ( 1971 ) , Maceo Parker , Gladys Knight & the Pips , Widespread Panic and The Black Crowes .
A Steel Drum version by Trinidad  आयल कम्पनी थी reissued on the dancefloor जैज़  compilation Blue Juice 2 .
It was also  प्रदर्शित in the 2000 फिल्मी  Duets , sung by Huey Lewis .
Both the original and the Joe Cocker cover were featured  in the फिल्म उड़ान  , starring Denzel Washington .
Devon Werkheiser ( born March 8,1991 ) is an American actor , voice actor , singer , songwriter and musician , best  ज्ञात लिये उसके अभिनीत भूमिका as ned bigby on the निकलोडियन sitcom ned 's declassified  School Survival Guide and for his role in the 2007 TV Movie Shredderman Rules , as the lead character Nolan Byrd .
Werkheiser also played Peter Parkes in the fourth  और फाइनल ऋतु of the एबीसी परिवार  show Greek .
Sample view of an  इलेक्ट्रॉनिक स्वास्थ्य रिकार्ड आधारित  on images
Sample view of an  इलेक्ट्रॉनिक स्वास्थ्य रिकार्ड
An electronic health record ( EHR ) is an evolving concept  पारिभाषित as a व्यवस्थित संग्रहण of इलेक्ट्रॉनिक  health information about individual patients or populations .
It is a record in digital format that is theoretically  सक्षम of होने साझा आरपार अलग  health care settings .
In some cases this sharing  can occur by रास्ता of network-connected enterprise-wide सूचना  systems and other information networks or exchanges .
EHRs may include a range of data ,  सहित जनसांख्यिकी , चिकित्सा इतिहास , दवा और allergies  , immunization status , laboratory test results , radiology images , vital signs , personal stats like age and weight , and billing information .
Loan origination is the process by which a borrower applies for a new loan , and a lender  प्रक्रियाओं कि अनुप्रयोग  .
Origination generally includes all the steps from  लेने a ऋण अनुप्रयोग up to disbursal of निधि ( or घटती  the application ) .
Loan servicing covers  सबकुछ  after disbursing the funds until the loan is fully paid off .
Loan  origination is a specialized संस्करण  of new account opening for financial services organizations .
Certain people and organizations  specialize in ऋण origination  .
Mortgage brokers and other mortgage originator  कंपनियाँ serve as a prominent  example .
There  हैं अनेक अलग प्रकार  of loans .
For more information on loan  प्रकार , देखिए the ऋण और उपभोक्ता  lending articles .
Steps involved in originating a loan vary  by ऋण प्रकार , विभिन्न kinds  of loan risk , regulator , lender policy , and other factors .
Top left : The Tennessee Valley Authority , part of  the नई सौदे , होने हस्ताक्षरित into  law in 1933 .
Top  सही : फ्रैंकलिन delano रूज़वेल्ट  , who was responsible for initiatives and programs collectively known as the New Deal .
Bottom : A  पब्लिक भित्ति इससे एक of the कलाकारों  employed by the New Deal .
the नई सौदे थी a श्रेणी of आर्थिक  programs enacted in the United States between 1933 and 1936 .
They involved presidential executive orders or laws passed by Congress during the first term  of अध्यक्ष फ्रैंकलिन D. रूज़वेल्ट  .
The programs were in response to the Great Depression , and focused on what  इतिहासकारों कॉल the `` 3 rs '' : राहत  , Recovery , and Reform .
That is Relief for the  बेरोजगार और ग़रीब ; रिकवरी of the अर्थव्यवस्था to सामान्य स्तर  ; and Reform of the financial system to prevent a repeat depression .
The New Deal produced a political realignment , making the Democratic Party the majority ( as well as the party that held the White  हाउस लिये सात आउट of नौ अध्यक्षीय शर्तें इससे 1933 to 1969 ) , साथ इसके आधार in उदार विचार , the श्वेत  South , traditional Democrats , big city machines , and the newly empowered labor unions and ethnic minorities .
The Republicans were split , with conservatives opposing the  संपूर्ण नई सौदे as an दुश्मन of कारोबार और विकास , और उदारवादियों accepting  some of it and promising to make it more efficient .
The realignment crystallized into the New Deal Coalition that dominated most presidential  चुनावों into the 1960s , जबकि the विपक्ष रूढ़िवादी  Coalition largely controlled Congress from 1937 to 1963 .
By 1936 the term `` liberal '' typically was used for  समर्थक of the नई सौदे , और `` रूढ़िवादी  `` for its opponents .
From 1934 to 1938 , Roosevelt was assisted in his endeavours  by a “pro-spender” बहुमत in कॉंग्रेस ( drawn इससे two-party ,  competitive , non-machine , Progressive , and Left party districts ) .
As noted by Alexander Hicks , “Roosevelt , backed by rare , non-Southern Democrat  majorities — 270 non-southern डेमोक्रेट प्रतिनिधि और 71 non-southern डेमोक्रेट  senators — spelled Second New Deal reform.”
Many historians distinguish between a `` First New Deal '' ( 1933–34 ) and a `` Second New Deal '' ( 1935–38 ) , with the second one more liberal and more  विवादास्पद  .
The `` First New Deal '' ( 1933–34  ) dealt साथ विविध समूह , इससे बैंकिंग और railroads to उद्योग और खेती , सब  of which demanded help for economic survival .
The Federal Emergency Relief Administration , for instance , provided $ 500 million for relief operations by states and cities , while the short-lived CWA ( Civil Works  प्रशासन ) दिया  localities money to operate make-work projects in 1933-34 .
The `` Second New Deal `` in 1935–38 included the Wagner Act to promote labor unions , the Works Progress Administration ( WPA ) relief program ( which made the federal government by far the  largest सिंगल नियोक्ता in the स्वदेश ) , the सोशल सुरक्षा अधिनियम , और  new programs to aid tenant farmers and migrant workers .
the फाइनल प्रमुख वस्तुएं of नई सौदे विधान यहूद the सृष्टि of the संयुक्त  States Housing Authority and Farm Security Administration , both in 1937 , and the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 , which set maximum hours and minimum wages for most categories of workers .
The economic downturn of  1937–38 , और the कड़वा  split between the AFL and CIO labor unions led to major Republican gains in Congress in 1938 .
Conservative Republicans and Democrats in  कॉंग्रेस joined in the अनौपचारिक  Conservative Coalition .
By  1942–43 वे shut bas राहत कार्यक्रम ऐसे as the wpa और  CCC and blocked major liberal proposals .
Roosevelt himself turned his  ध्यान to the युद्ध प्रयत्न , और  won reelection in 1940 and 1944 .
The Supreme Court declared the National Recovery Administration ( NRA ) and the first version of the Agricultural Adjustment Act ( AAA ) unconstitutional ,  however the aaa थी rewritten  and then upheld .
as the पहला रिपब्लिकन अध्यक्ष निर्वाचित  after FDR , Dwight D. Eisenhower ( 1953–61 ) left the New Deal largely intact , even expanding it in some areas .
In the 1960s , Lyndon B. Johnson 's Great Society used the New Deal as  प्रेरणा लिये a नाटकीय विस्तार of उदार  programs , which Republican Richard M. Nixon generally retained .
बाद 1974 , however  , the call for deregulation of the economy gained bipartisan support .
The New Deal regulation  of बैंकिंग ( glass–steagall अधिनियम ) थी  suspended in the 1990s .
Many New Deal programs remain active , with some still operating under the original names , including the  संघीय जमा बीमे निगम ( fdic ) , the संघीय क्रॉप बीमे निगम ( fcic ) , the  Federal Housing Administration ( FHA ) , and the Tennessee Valley Authority ( TVA ) .
The largest programs still in existence today are the  सोशल सुरक्षा प्रणाली और the प्रतिभूति और एक्सचेंज आयोग ( सेक )  .
A  स्त्री ( ) , pl :  women ( ) is a female human .
The  पद स्त्री is प्रायः सुरक्षित लिये an  adult , with the term girl being the usual term for a female child or adolescent .
however , the पद स्त्री is भी sometimes  used to identify a female human , regardless of age , as in phrases such as `` Women 's rights `` .
महिलाओं हैं typically सक्षम of giving  birth , though older women who have gone through menopause and some intersex women can not .
`` I Do n't Want to  मिस a बात '' is a सोंग  performed by American rock band Aerosmith for the 1998 film Armageddon .
Written by Diane Warren , the song debuted at number one on the  बिलबोर्ड hot 100 ( the पहला # 1 लिये the बैंड बाद 28  years together ) .
The  सोंग ठहरे at क्रमांक एक लिये चार सप्ताह  from September 5 to September 26 , 1998 .
The song also stayed at number 1 for several  सप्ताह in अनेक अन्य देशों  .
In the UK , the song peaked at number four , becoming Aerosmith 's highest charting song in the UK , where  it थी the 17th best-selling सिंगल of 1998 , और रै बेची  over a million copies .
Although not  प्रयुक्त by the बहुमत of the  world 's countries , daylight saving time is common in the Western world .
daylight छायांकन समय ( dst ) —also गर्मियाँ समय in अंग्रेजों अंग्रेज़ी — is  the practice of advancing clocks during the lighter months so that evenings have more daylight and mornings have less .
Typically clocks are adjusted forward one hour  निकट the प्रारंभ of वसन्त  and are adjusted backward in autumn .
The modern idea of daylight  छायांकन थी पहला प्रस्तावित in 1895 by जार्ज vernon हडसन और it थी  first implemented during the First World War .
Many countries have used it at various times  चूंकि तब  .
Much  of the संयुक्त राज्य प्रयुक्त dst in the 1950s और 1960s ,  and DST use expanded following the 1970s energy crisis and has been widely used in North America and Europe since then .
The  अभ्यास रै  been both praised and criticized .
Adding daylight to evenings benefits retailing , sports , and other activities that exploit sunlight after working hours ,  लकिन can कारण समस्याएं लिये संध्या entertainment  and other occupations tied to the sun .
Although an early goal of DST was to reduce evening usage of incandescent lighting ( formerly  a प्राथमिक उपयोग of विद्युत ) , आधुनिक हीटिंग और कूलिंग उपयोग पैटर्न  differ greatly , and research about how DST currently affects energy use is limited or contradictory .
DST clock shifts  उपस्थित अन्य चुनौतियां  .
They complicate timekeeping , and can disrupt meetings ,  सफर , बिलिंग , रिकार्ड keeping , चिकित्सा डिवाइस , भारी उपकरण  , and sleep patterns .
Software can often adjust computer clocks automatically , but  इस can be सीमित और error-prone  , particularly when DST dates are changed .
Floorplan of  the château  de Montargis
Montargis is a commune in the Loiret department  in north-central फ़्रांस  on the Loing river .
The town is  स्तिथ परिचय दक्षिण of पेरिस  and east of Orléans in the Gâtinais .
montargis is the दूसरी largest  city in the Loiret , after Orléans .
It is near a large forest ,  और contains लाइट उद्योग  and farming , including saffron .
Due to its numerous canals and bridges , Montargis sometimes  बिल्स itself as the `` वेनिस of the gâtinais  . ''
Though quite modern , it  retains a मध्यकालीन आकर्षण in इसके शहर  area .
In computer storage , a logical unit number , or LUN , is a number used to identify a logical unit , which is a device addressed  by the scsi प्रोटोकॉल or प्रोटोकॉल जिससे  encapsulate SCSI , such as Fibre Channel or iSCSI .
A LUN may be used with any device  जिससे supports read/write परिचालन , ऐसे as a टेप ड्राइव , लकिन is सबसे  often used to refer to a logical disk as created on a SAN .
Though not technically correct ,  the पद `` lun '' is प्रायः  also used to refer to the logical disk itself .
The Gospel According to Mark ( , , to euangelion kata Markon ) , commonly  shortened to the इन्जील of चिह्नित or बस चिह्नित , is the  second book of the New Testament .
This canonical account of the life of  यीशु of नासरत is  one of the three synoptic gospels .
It was thought to be an epitome , which accounts for its place as  the दूसरी इन्जील in the बाइबल  .
However , most contemporary scholars now  लिहाज़ it as the earliest of the canonical  gospels ( c 70 ) .
कि चिह्नित थी प्रयुक्त as a सोर्स लिये the  other synoptic gospels Gospel of Matthew and Gospel of Luke is widely held by many , although not all , New Testament scholars .
The Gospel of Mark  narrates the मंत्रालय of यीशु इससे  his baptism by John the Baptist to his death and resurrection .
It  focuses विशेषकर  on the last week of his life ( chapters 11–16 ) in Jerusalem .
Its swift narrative portrays  यीशु as a वीर man  of action , an exorcist , healer and miracle worker .
An  महत्वपूर्ण थीम of चिह्नित is  the Messianic Secret .
Jesus silences the demoniacs he heals , tries unsuccessfully to keep his messianic identity  रहस्य , और conceals उसके संदेश साथ parables  .
Meanwhile , the disciples fail to understand both the  implication of the चमत्कार of यीशु और the अर्थ  of the things he predicts about his arrest , death and resurrection .
Most scholars believe that the original text of the gospel ends at Mark 16:8 with the discovery of  यीशु ' खाली मकबरा और कि the following खाता of उसके क़यामत दिखावे  is a later addition .
According to tradition and some early  गिरिजाघर लेखक , the लेखक is चिह्नित the इंजीलवादी  , the companion of the apostle Peter .
The gospel , however , appears to rely on several underlying sources , varying in form and in theology , which tells  विरूद्ध the परंपरा कि the इन्जील  was based on Peter 's preaching .
The text is a compilation which may include eye-witness accounts as  खूब as ज्ञात अपोस्टोलिक preachings , और pre-existing लिखा  records that do not exist today but can be confirmed from 2nd-century commentators .
Some of the stories in  the इन्जील may have  been transmitted orally before being written down .
Various elements within the gospel suggest that  the लेखक लिखा in सीरियाई or फिलिस्तीन  for a non-Jewish Christian community .
The Lord of the  बजती is an एपिक ऊँची काल्पनिक अनोखा लिखा by अंग्रेज़ी  philologist and University of Oxford professor J. R. R. Tolkien .
The story began as a sequel to Tolkien 's 1937 children 's fantasy novel The Hobbit  , लकिन आखिरकार विकसित into a much larger  work .
It was written in stages between 1937 and 1949 ,  much of it दौरान संसार  War II .
It  is the दूसरी best-selling  novel ever written , with over 150 million copies sold .
The title of the novel  refers to the स्टोरी 's प्रमुख विपक्षी , the अंधेरा रब sauron , जो था in an पहले आयु निर्मित the एक रिंग to नियम the  other Rings of Power as the ultimate weapon in his campaign to conquer and rule all of Middle-earth .
From quiet beginnings in  the शायर , a होब्बिट जमीन नहीं नापसंद the अंग्रेज़ी countryside , the स्टोरी सीमाएँ आरपार north-west middle-earth , following the कोर्स of the युद्ध of the रिंग through the आँखें of इसके वर्ण , notably the hobbits frodo  Baggins , Samwise `` Sam '' Gamgee , Meriadoc `` Merry '' Brandybuck and Peregrin `` Pippin '' Took , but also the hobbits ' chief allies and travelling companions : Aragorn , a Human Ranger ; Boromir , a man from Gondor ; Gimli , a Dwarf warrior ; Legolas , an Elven prince ; and Gandalf , a Wizard .
The work was initially intended  by tolkien to be एक आवाज़ of a two-volume नियत , साथ the अन्य होने  The Silmarillion , but this idea was dismissed by his publisher .
It was decided for economic reasons to publish The Lord of the Rings as three volumes over the course of a  साल इससे 29 जुलाई 1954 to 20 अक्तूबर 1955 , यूँ बनाना the अभी परिचित  Lord of the Rings trilogy .
The three volumes  यहूद हकदार the फेलोशिप of the रिंग , the दो मीनारें  , and The Return of the King .
Structurally , the novel is divided internally  into छह किताबे , दो प्रति आवाज़ , साथ अनेक appendices of पृष्ठभूमि  material included at the end of the third volume .
The Lord of the Rings has since been reprinted numerous times and  अनूदित into अनेक भाषाएं  .
Tolkien  's कार्य रै महरूम the विषय  of extensive analysis of its themes and origins .
Although a major work in itself , the story was only the last movement of a larger epic  tolkien था worked on चूंकि 1917 , in a प्रक्रम he वर्णित  as mythopoeia .
Influences on this earlier work , and on the story of The Lord of the Rings , include  philology , mythology , धर्म और the लेखक 's distaste लिये the प्रभाव of industrialization , as खूब  as earlier fantasy works and Tolkien 's experiences in World War I .
The Lord of the  बजती in इसके फेरे is माना to have था a ग्रेट प्रभाव on आधुनिक काल्पनिक ; the प्रभाव of tolkien  's works is such that the use of the words `` Tolkienian '' and `` Tolkienesque '' have been recorded in the Oxford English Dictionary .
The enduring popularity of The Lord of the Rings has led to numerous references in popular culture , the  founding of अनेक समाजों by प्रशंसक of tolkien 's  works , and the publication of many books about Tolkien and his works .
The Lord of  the बजती रै प्रेरित , और continues to inspire ,  artwork , music , films and television , video games , and subsequent literature .
Award-winning adaptations of The Lord of the Rings have been made for  रेडियो , थिएटर , और फिल्मी  .
The following is  an एपीसोड सूची लिये the  Nickelodeon sitcom Drake & Josh .
The series debuted on  जनवरी 11 , 2004  .
A TV film Merry Christmas , Drake  & जोश थी बना अलावा इससे the  regular series on December 5 , 2008 .
There are a total of  60 एपीसोड यहूद उत्पादित spanning  four seasons .
Drake Bell , Josh Peck , and Miranda Cosgrove were the  तभी अभिनेताओं to appear  in all 60 episodes .
The San Francisco 49ers conduct training camp at the team 's  मुख्यालय और अभ्यास सुविधा in सांता क्लारा , कैलिफ़ोर्निया  in August 2010 .
The offense is wearing  रेड jerseys साथ the एक्सेप्शन of क्वार्टरबैक  Alex Smith , who is in a black jersey ; the defense in white .
in the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग , प्रशिक्षण  camp refers to the time before the season commences .
During this time , teams will sometimes  congregate at an बाहर स्थान , प्रायः a विश्वविद्यालयों  , to conduct training camp for at least the first few weeks .
इस is समान  to baseball 's spring training .
Training camp is  प्रयुक्त in अनेक  different ways .
New players and coaches use it to  acclimate themselves to नई teammates  and systems .
For younger players , it serves as a  काल of मूल्यांकन ; लिये दिग्गजों  , it is time to round back into form .
Training camp is divided into several  अलग components  .
the पहला  is scrimmages .
These  हैं pseudo-games जहाँ टीमों चलाएं  nearly full games ' worth of plays .
sometimes , दो अभ्यास  sessions are held on the same day .
This concept is referred  to as  two-a-days .
Other parts of training camp include drills , meetings with coaches and other  खिलाड़ी at एक 's स्थिति , वज़न  training , and pre-season games .
The  latter हाफ of प्रशिक्षण शिविर लीड सीधे  into the exhibition season .
With NFL training camps  starting in late-july , the  biggest concern has been dehydration .
In 2001 , Minnesota Vikings player Korey Stringer died of a  चिकित्सा कंडीशन आधारित इससे निर्जलीकरण और heatstroke  .
The death of Stringer prompted the NFL to  बदलें उनके प्रशिक्षण नीतियों  .
At each practice , every  टोली जरूर have the टोली डॉक्टर और प्रशिक्षकों on the  field ; additionally , an ambulance must be present during practices .
साथ एनएफएल प्रशिक्षण शिविरों शुरूआत  in late July , severe weather can affect practice and exhibition games .
In 2002 , a Cleveland Browns exhibition game ended  due to बिजली निकट क्लीवलैंड भूरा स्टेडियम , और  severe storms have been known to disrupt training camps .
Fans are often able to visit their favorite team 's training camp to catch an early look at  the खिलाड़ी ; प्रवेश to practices is प्रायः फ़्री or substantially कम महंगी than a खेल टिकट  , making training camp trips a popular option for fans who can not attend many games due to financial or other reasons .
NFL teams often sell souvenirs and concessions at camp sites along with offering activities and events to  मेक प्रशिक्षण शिविर a अधिक fan-friendly अनुभव  .
in कम्प्यूटिंग , a संचिका प्रणाली ( or filesystem  ) is a type of data store which can be used to store , retrieve and update a set of files .
The term could refer to the abstract data structures used to define files , or to the actual software or  फर्मवेयर components कि implement the अमूर्त विचार  .
Some file systems are used on local data storage devices ;  अन्य provide संचिका अभिगम via a संजाल प्रोटोकॉल ( e.g  . NFS , SMB , or 9P clients ) .
Some file systems are `` virtual '' ,  in कि the `` फाइलें '' supplied हैं computed on निवेदन  ( e.g . procfs ) or are merely a mapping into a different file system used as a backing store .
The file system manages access to both the  सामग्री of फाइलें और the मेटाडेटा परिचय  those files .
It is responsible for arranging storage space ;  विश्वसनीयता , दक्षता , और ट्यूनिंग साथ लिहाज़ to the शारीरिक भंडार मीडियम  are important design considerations .
William Howard Taft ( September 15 , 1857 – March 8 , 1930 ) was the 27th President of  the संयुक्त राज्य ( 1909–1913 ) और बाद the दसवाँ मुख्य  Justice of the United States ( 1921–1930 ) .
He is the only person to have  परोसा in  both of these offices .
पहले बनने अध्यक्ष , taft , a रिपब्लिकन , थी  selected to serve on the Superior Court of Cincinnati in 1887 .
In 1890 , Taft was appointed Solicitor General of the  संयुक्त राज्य और in 1891 a न्यायधीश on the संयुक्त राज्य अदालत of  Appeals for the Sixth Circuit .
In 1900 , President  विलियम mckinley नियुक्त  Taft Governor-General of the Philippines .
In 1904 , President Theodore Roosevelt  नियुक्त taft सचिव of युद्ध in an प्रयत्न to दूल्हे taft ,  then his close political ally , into his handpicked presidential successor .
Taft assumed a prominent role in problem solving , assuming on some occasions the  भूमिका of एक्टिंग सचिव of राज्य , जबकि  declining repeated offers from Roosevelt to serve on the Supreme Court .
Riding a wave of popular support for fellow  रिपब्लिकन रूज़वेल्ट , taft जीती an आसान  victory in his 1908 bid for the presidency .
In his only term , Taft 's domestic agenda emphasized trust-busting ,  सिविल सेवा सुधार , strengthening the अंतरराज्यीय  Commerce Commission , improving the performance of the postal service , and passage of the Sixteenth Amendment .
Abroad , Taft sought to further the  आर्थिक विकास of राष्ट्र in लैटिन अमेरिका और एशिया through `` डालर कूटनीति `` , और दिखाया decisiveness और  restraint in response to revolution in Mexico .
The task-oriented Taft was oblivious to the political ramifications of his decisions , often alienated his own  कुंजी constituencies , और थी overwhelmingly पराजित in उसके बोली  for a second term in the presidential election of 1912 .
In surveys of presidential scholars ,  taft is प्रायः क्रमित निकट the मध्य of सूचियाँ  of all American Presidents .
After leaving office , Taft  खर्च उसके समय in academia , मध्यस्थता  , and the search for world peace through his self-founded League to Enforce Peace .
In 1921 , after the First World War ,  अध्यक्ष वारेन G. हार्डिंग नियुक्त  Taft Chief Justice of the United States .
Taft served in this capacity until  shortly पहले उसके मौत  in 1930 .
The Ten Commandments is a 1956 epic film produced  और निर्देशित by सेसिल B. demille कि dramatized  the biblical story of the Exodus , in which the Hebrew-born Moses , an adopted Egyptian prince , becomes the deliverer of the Hebrew slaves .
It starred Charlton Heston in  the सीसे भूमिका , yul brynner as उसके adoptive bhai , pharaoh rameses ii , ऐनी बैक्सटर as  Nefretiri , Edward G. Robinson as Dathan , Yvonne De Carlo as Sephora , Debra Paget as Lilia , and John Derek as Joshua .
The supporting  डाल शामिल सर सेड्रिक hardwicke as pharaoh सेती i , नीना foch as bithiah  , Martha Scott as Yoshebel , Judith Anderson as Memnet , Vincent Price as Baka , and John Carradine as Aaron .
The film was released by Paramount Pictures in VistaVision  on अक्तूबर 5 , 1956  .
The Ten  आयतें , जिससे demille narrated  , was the last film that he directed .
He  थी नियत to सीधा the 1958 रीमेक of उसके 1938 फिल्मी the buccaneer  , but his final illness forced him to relinquish the directing chores to his son-in-law , actor Anthony Quinn .
DeMille had also planned to film the life of Lord Baden  पावेल , the संस्थापक of the स्काउट गति , साथ दाउद niven ;  this project was never realized .
The Ten  आयतें is a आंशिक  remake of DeMille 's 1923 silent film .
कुछ of the डाल और क्रू  of the 1956 version worked on the original .
It has  चूंकि महरूम remade as a  television miniseries broadcast in April 2006 .
The Ten  आयतें is एक of the सबसे financially कामयाब films कभी  made , grossing over $ 65 million at the U.S. box office .
Adjusting for inflation , this makes it the sixth  highest-grossing फिल्मी domestically , साथ an समायोजित  total of $ 1,025,730,000 in 2012 .
The box office  जालस्थल `` the संख्याएँ ''  lists the domestic gross at $ 80 million .
In 1999 , The Ten Commandments was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the  पुस्तकालयों of कॉंग्रेस as होने `` culturally , historically , or aesthetically  significant '' .
In June 2008 , the American Film Institute revealed its `` Ten Top Ten `` —the best  टेन films in टेन अमरीकी फिल्मी genres—after polling  over 1,500 people from the creative community .
the टेन आयतें थी  listed as the tenth best film in the epic genre .
The film received seven Academy Award nominations including Best Picture , and won the Academy  पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन विज़ुअल  Effects .
चार्ल्टन हेस्टन थी मनोनीत लिये a सुनहरी  Globe Award for Best Motion Picture Actor in the drama category .
Yul Brynner won the National  फलक of पुनर्विलोकन पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन कर्ता लिये उसके भूमिका  as Rameses , along with his other roles in The King and I and Anastasia .
Louisville ( , or ) is a major city  और the largest नगर in the u.S. राज्य of केंटकी  and the county seat of Jefferson County .
Since 2003 , the city 's borders have been with those of the  काउंटी क्युकी of a city-county विलय  .
The city 's total  संचित जनसांख्यिकी at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी थी 741,096 ( louisville 's संतुलन कुल , 602,011  , excludes semi-autonomous towns and is the population listed in most sources and national rankings ) .
As of 2010 , the Louisville metropolitan area (  एमएसए ) था a जनसांख्यिकी of 1,307,647 रैंकिंग  42nd nationally .
The metro area includes Louisville-Jefferson County and 12 surrounding counties  , आठ in केंटकी और चार in दक्षिणी इंडियाना  ( see Geography below ) .
The Louisville  संयुक्त सांख्यिकीय क्षेत्रफल , having a जनसांख्यिकी of  1,451,564 , includes the MSA , Hardin County and Larue County in Kentucky , and Scott County , Indiana .
An important internal shipping port in the 19th century , Louisville today is best  ज्ञात as the स्थान of the केंटकी डर्बी , the पहला of तीन सालाना  thoroughbred horse races making up the Triple Crown .
A typical experimental setup for an  aldol प्रतिक्रिया  .
Both flasks are submerged in a dry ice/acetone cooling bath ( −78  °c ) the तापमान of जिससे is होने monitored by  a thermocouple ( the wire on the left ) .
A cooling bath , in laboratory chemistry ( often but not always organic chemistry ) practice , is a liquid mixture which is used to maintain low  temperatures , typically between 13 °c और −196  °C .
These low  temperatures हैं प्रयुक्त to collect liquids बाद आसवन  , to remove solvents using a rotary evaporator , or to perform a chemical reaction below room temperature ( see : kinetic control ) .
Cooling baths are generally one of two types : ( a ) a cold fluid ( particularly liquid nitrogen , water , or even air ) — but most commonly the term refers to ( b ) a mixture of 3 components : ( 1 ) a cooling agent ( such as dry ice or water ice ) ; ( b ) a liquid 'carrier ' ( such as liquid water , ethylene glycol , acetone ,  इत्यादि . ) , जिससे हस्तांतरण ऊष्मा between the नहाना और the पोत ; ; और ( c ) an योगात्मक to गुमसुम the melting-point  of the solid/liquid system .
( A familiar example  of इस is the उपयोग of an ice/rock-salt मिश्रण  to freeze ice cream .
The phase-change of ice into liquid water requires energy ,  'pulling ' ऊष्मा इससे  the system .
Adding salt lowers the temp at which this happens , meaning more energy has to be absorbed from the  पर्यावरण in अनुक्रम  to melt the ice .
This effectively makes the ice 'colder ' — it must 'pull ' more  ऊष्मा इससे इसके  environment to become liquid . )
Eating disorders are conditions defined by abnormal eating habits that may involve either insufficient  or excessive खाना सेवन to the detriment of an व्यक्तिगत 's शारीरिक  and mental health .
Bulimia nervosa and anorexia nervosa are the  सबसे आम विशिष्ट फ़ॉर्म in the संयुक्त किंगडम  .
Other types of eating disorders include binge eating  विकार और खाने  disorder not otherwise specified .
Bulimia nervosa  is a विकार characterized by binge खाने  and purging .
Purging can include self-induce vomiting ,  over-exercising , और the उपयोग of diuretics , enemas ,  and laxatives .
Anorexia nervosa is characterized by  चरम खाना प्रतिबंध to the  point of self-starvation and excessive weight loss .
Though primarily thought of as  affecting महिलाओं ( an अनुमानित 5–10 लाख होने  affected in the U.K. ) , eating disorders affect males as well .
An estimated 10 – 15 % of people with  खाने विकार हैं males ( गोर्गान , 1999  ) .
(  an अनुमानित 1 लाख  U.K. males being affected ) .
Although eating disorders are increasing all over the world among both men and women , there is evidence to suggest that it is women in the  पश्चिमी संसार जो हैं at the उच्चतम रिस्क of विकासशील उन्हें  and the degree of westernization increases the risk .
Nearly half of all Americans personally  जान किसी साथ an खाने विकार  .
The skill to comprehend the central processes of appetite has increased tremendously since leptin was  खोजा , और the कौशल to observe the कृत्यों of the दिमाग as खूब .
Interactions between motivational , homeostatic and self-regulatory  कंट्रोल प्रक्रियाओं हैं शामिल in खाने आचरण , जिससे is a कुंजी घटक in खाने विकार  .
The precise cause of eating disorders is not entirely understood , but there  is प्रमाण कि it may be linked to अन्य चिकित्सा  conditions and situations .
Cultural idealization of  thinness और youthfulness have contributed to खाने विकार affecting  diverse populations .
One study showed that girls with ADHD have a greater chance of getting an  खाने विकार than those  not affected by ADHD .
Another study suggested that women with PTSD , especially due to sexually related  आघात , हैं अधिक संभावित to develop एनोरेक्सिया नर्वोज़ा .
One study showed that foster girls are more  संभावित to develop bulimia  nervosa .
Some  सोचो कि पीर दबाव और idealized body-types  seen in the media are also a significant factor .
Some research show that for certain people there are genetic reasons why they may be  prone to विकासशील an खाने  disorder .
Recent  अध्ययन have मिला प्रमाण a सहसंबंध  between patients with bulimia nervosa and substance use disorders .
In addition , anxiety disorders and  व्यक्तित्व विकार हैं आम आवृत्ति  with clients of eating disorders .
While proper treatment can be highly effective for many suffering from specific types of eating  विकार , the consequences of खाने विकार can be कठोर , सहित मौत ( whether इससे सीधा चिकित्सा प्रभाव of अशांत खाने  habits or from comorbid conditions such as suicidal thinking ) .
गुलामी in the संयुक्त राज्य existed इससे the जल्दी सालो of the औपनिवेशिक  period ; it was firmly established by the time the United States sought independence from Great Britain in 1776 .
However , by 1804 , all states north of the Mason and Dixon Line had either abolished slavery  outright or passed कानून लिये the क्रमिक abolition of गुलामी  .
In 1787 Congress  निषिद्ध गुलामी in the  Northwest Territory .
But slavery gained new life  in the दक्षिण साथ the कपास उद्योग  after 1800 , and expanded into the Southwest .
The nation was polarized into slave and free states along  the mason-dixon लकीर , जिससे अलग पेन्सिलवेनिया  and Maryland .
the संयुक्त राज्य और ग्रेट ब्रिटेन दोनो निषिद्ध the अंतरराष्ट्रीय  slave trade in 1808 , but the domestic trade , with sales to the Deep South , expanded dramatically , and many captives were shipped by the coastwise slave trade .
Before  the 1840s , the दक्षिण थी vigorously defending  slavery and its expansion into the territories .
In the North some abolitionists denounced it as  गुनाहगार , और numerous anti-slavery शक्तियां अस्वीकृत it  as detrimental to the rights of free men .
After failed compromises and Abraham Lincoln 's election ,  in 1861 ग्यारह स्लेव राज्य broke दूर to रूप the confederate  States of America , leading to the American Civil War .
The  संघीय सरकारी in 1862  made abolition of slavery a war goal .
In January  1863 अध्यक्ष lincoln freed स्लेव  in the Confederacy through the Emancipation Proclamation .
After  the युद्ध , the तेरहवीं amendment , प्रभावी दिसम्बर 1865  , abolished slavery throughout the entire United States , including the Border states and the Indian territories .
From the 16th to the 19th centuries , an estimated 12 million  africans यहूद shipped as स्लेव to the americas .
See  गुलामी in the  Americas .
The great majority went to the sugar  बागानों of the वेस्ट इंडीज  or Brazil , where mortality was high .
About 645,000 were brought to  कया is अभी the संयुक्त राज्य  .
By the 1860 United States Census , the slave population in the American South  था grown to चार लाख  .
Of all 1,515,605 families in the 15 slave states , nearly 400,000 held slaves (  roughly एक in चार ) , amounting to 8 % of सब अमरीकी  families .
While some slaves worked as house  बन्दों और शहरी शिल्पकार , the ग्रेट बहुमत worked on बागानों  or large farms , cultivating lucrative cash crops , such as rice , tobacco , sugar and , after 1800 , chiefly cotton .
By 1860 most slaves  यहूद  held in the Deep South , where they served in work-gangs ; two-thirds worked in cotton .
In small operations ,  वे worked साथ उनके  owners .
In large plantations  वे यहूद निर्देशित  by white paid overseers .
Under the system that became chattel slavery ( ownership of a human being , and of his/her descendants ) , a racial element was fundamental :  स्लेव यहूद अश्वेतों of अफ़्रीकी descent और स्वामित्व , लगभग universally  , by whites of European descent .
In the 17th century , Virginia ,  followed by अन्य दक्षिणी colonies , enacted विधि कि children of स्लेव माताओं  were born into slavery .
Slaves could gain freedom only by running away ( which was difficult and illegal  to do ) , or by manumission by स्वामी , जिससे थी regulated by  states , and became increasingly difficult or prohibited .
In the earliest era of chattel slavery , the colonies also  व्यवस्थित कार्य by a प्रणाली of बंधुआ मजदूर ज्ञात  as indentured servitude .
This typically lasted for several years for both poor  europeans और africans alike , to अदा  off the costs of transport to the colonies .
They contracted  लिये ऐसे इंतजाम क्युकी of  poor economies in their home countries .
Between 1680 and 1700 , as fewer Europeans migrated to the colonies , planters  began to आयात अधिक africans as स्लेव  .
Recognizing the importance of slavery , the House of  burgesses in वर्जिनिया enacted a नई स्लेव कोड in 1705 ; it संयुक्त a किस्में of विधान और added नई  provisions enforcing white supremacy in the law .
Schematic  क्रॉस खण्ड of भाग of पत्ता , जाइलम दिखाया  as red circles at figure 8 .
Xylem is one of the two types of  हस्तांतरण ऊतक in vascular पौधे ( फ्लोएम is the  other ) .
The word xylem is derived from the Greek word ξύλον (  xylon ) , अर्थ `` लकडी '' ; the best-known  xylem tissue is wood , though it is found throughout the plant .
Its basic function is to transport water , but it  भी transports कुछ nutrients  through the plant .
This clock  प्रतिनिधित्व shows कुछ of the  major units of geological time and definitive events of Earth history .
The Hadean eon  represents the समय पहले चट्टान रिकार्ड  of life on Earth ; its upper boundary is now regarded as 4.0 Ga ( billion years ago ) .
अन्य subdivisions  reflect the evolution of life ; the Archean and Proterozoic are both eons , the Palaeozoic , Mesozoic and Cenozoic are eras of the Phanerozoic eon .
The two million year  quaternary काल , the समय  of recognizable humans , is too small to be visible at this scale .
The geologic time scale is a system of chronological measurement that relates  स्तरिकी to समय , और is प्रयुक्त by geologists , paleontologists , और अन्य धरती वैज्ञानिकों to  describe the timing and relationships between events that have occurred throughout Earth 's history .
The table of  भूगर्भिक समय spans प्रस्तुत यहाँ agrees साथ the तिथियाँ और नामकरण  set forth by the International Commission on Stratigraphy standard color codes of the International Commission on Stratigraphy .
Evidence from  radiometric डेटिंग indicates कि the  Earth is about 4.54 billion years old .
the भूविज्ञान or गहन समय of धरती 's पास्ट रै महरूम व्यवस्थित  into various units according to events which took place in each period .
Different spans of time on the GTS are usually delimited by changes in the composition of strata which correspond to them , indicating major  geological or paleontological कार्यक्रम , ऐसे as द्रव्यमान  extinctions .
For example , the boundary between the Cretaceous period and  the paleogene काल is पारिभाषित by the cretaceous–paleogene extinction इवेंट , जिससे  marked the demise of the dinosaurs and many other groups of life .
Older time spans which predate the  विश्वसनीय चट्टान रिकार्ड ( पहले the proterozoic इओन  ) are defined by absolute age .
The TI-82 is a graphing calculator made by  टेक्सास यंत्र  .
The TI-82 was  designed in 1993 as a stripped bas , अधिक उपयोक्ता दोस्ताना संस्करण  of the TI-85 , and as a replacement for the TI-81 .
It was the direct predecessor  of the ti-83  .
It shares with the TI-85  a 6 mhz zilog z80  microprocessor .
Like the TI-81 , the TI-82 features a  96x64 पिक्सेल प्रदर्शक , और the कोर विशेषता  set of the TI-81 with many new features .
The cast of  वर्ण of  The King of Fighters XI .
The King of Fighters fighting game  श्रेणी , उत्पादित by snk playmore , शामिल  a wide cast of characters , some of which are taken from other SNK games .
The story takes place in a fictional  ब्रह्मांड in जिससे an सालाना  series of 3-on-3 or 4-on-4 fighting tournaments are held .
The first game in the series introduces the initial main character of the series ,  kyo kusanagi , a यंग जापानी सेनानी जो is the वारिस to a शक्तिशाली समूह  of martial artists having pyrokinetic abilities .
Kyo fights against the Kusanagi clan 's  दुश्मनों , उसके प्रतिद्वंद्वी iori yagami , और the परमेश्वर orochi और इसके इंसान  followers , among others .
The first four games in the series revolve about these fights ,  जबकि the किंग of सेनानी '99 introduces a नई स्टोरी चाप , घूमती around k ' , a यंग man जो seeks to नष्ट the रहस्यमय nests संगठन  because they kidnapped him at an early age and stripped him of his past memories , so that they could force him to be a fighter under their control .
In The King of Fighters 2003 , a new  अक्षर नामित राख crimson  enters the tournament , to steal the powers of the clans who sealed the Orochi in the past for an unknown reason .
A new group of antagonists , known as Those From the Past , also appears in the series ; they want to obtain Orochi 's power for  the purpose of giving it to उनके अनजान निपुण  .
The plot and the characters  आए इससे the yamata no orochi  legend .
There are also several characters in the games that  हैं parodies or homages to अनेक  popular anime , manga , and films .
Merchandise based on the characters has also been  released , सहित कार्रवाई आंकड़े और keychains  .
The characters have garnered  तारीफ़ इससे अनेक वीडियो खेल publications लिये  the quality of their designs and movesets .
Comments focused  on the कमी of सुधार in कुछ  of the characters , but added that the roster is greatly diverse .
Whale Wars is a weekly American documentary-style reality television series that premiered on  नवम्बर 7 , 2008 on the एनिमल ग्रह केबल चैनल .
The program follows Paul Watson , founder of the Sea Shepherd  संरक्षण समाज , as he और the क्रू सवार उनके विभिन्न बरतन harass  Japanese whalers off the coast of Antarctica .
On January 5 , 2013 ,  एनिमल ग्रह नवीनीकृत the श्रेणी  for a sixth season .
The Harpy Eagle (  harpia harpyja ) is a neotropical  species of eagle .
It is sometimes known as the American Harpy Eagle to distinguish it from the Papuan Eagle  जिससे is sometimes ज्ञात as the नई  Guinea Harpy Eagle or Papuan Harpy Eagle .
It is the largest and most powerful raptor found  in the americas , और among  the largest extant species of eagles in the world .
It usually inhabits tropical lowland  rainforests in the  upper ( emergent ) canopy layer .
Destruction of its  प्राकृतिक आवास रै देखी it vanish  from many parts of its former range , and it is nearly extirpated in Central America .
Biological classification , or scientific  वर्गीकरण in जीवविज्ञान , is a विधि of वैज्ञानिक taxonomy प्रयुक्त to समूह और  categorize organisms into groups such as genus or species .
These groups are known as  taxa ( एकवचन : टैक्सोन  ) .
Modern biological classification has its root in the work of Carolus Linnaeus , who grouped  प्रजाति according to साझा शारीरिक विशेषताएँ  .
These groupings have since been revised to improve consistency with the Darwinian  principle of आम descent  .
With the introduction of the cladistic method in the late 20th  सदी , phylogenetic taxonomy in जिससे जीवों हैं grouped आधारित purely on inferred  evolutionary relatedness , ignoring morphological similarity , has become common in some areas of biology .
Molecular phylogenetics , which uses DNA sequences as data , has also driven many recent  revisions और is संभावित to continue  doing so .
Biological  वर्गीकरण belongs to the विज्ञान  of biological systematics .
लेनन 's हस्ताक्षर
John Winston Ono Lennon , ( born John Winston Lennon ; 9 October 1940 – 8 December 1980 ) was an English musician , singer and songwriter who rose to worldwide fame as a founder member  of the बीटल्स , एक of the सबसे commercially कामयाब और critically acclaimed  acts in the history of popular music .
With Paul McCartney , he formed one of the most celebrated songwriting  partnerships of the 20th सदी  .
Born and raised in Liverpool , as a teenager Lennon became involved in the  skiffle craze ; उसके पहला बैंड , the quarrymen  , evolved into the Beatles in 1960 .
As the group disintegrated towards the end of the decade , Lennon embarked on a solo career that produced the critically  acclaimed एल्बम जॉन lennon/plastic ओनो बैंड और imagine , और iconic गीतों ऐसे as `` दे सलाम a मौका `` और `` imagine  `` .
After his marriage to Yoko Ono in 1969 , he changed his  नाम to जॉन ओनो लेनन  .
Lennon disengaged himself from the music business in 1975 to devote time to  उठाने उसके शिशु बेटे शॉन , लकिन re-emerged साथ ओनो in 1980 साथ  the new album Double Fantasy .
He was  murdered तीन सप्ताह बाद  its release .
Lennon revealed a rebellious nature and  acerbic wit in उसके म्यूज़िक , लिखने , drawings , on फिल्मी और in साक्षात्कार  .
Controversial through his political and peace activism , he moved to New York City in 1971 ,  जहाँ उसके आलोचना of the वियतनाम युद्ध resulted in a lengthy attempt by रिचर्ड निक्सन 's प्रशासन to निर्वासन उसे , जबकि कुछ of उसके  songs were adopted as anthems by the anti-war movement .
As of 2012 , Lennon 's solo album sales in the United States exceed 14 million units  , और as लेखक , co-writer or यजमान , he is जिम्मेदार  for 25 number-one singles on the US Hot 100 chart .
In 2002 , a BBC  पोल on the 100 महानतम britons voted उसे आठवीं  , and in 2008 , Rolling Stone ranked him the fifth-greatest singer of all time .
He was posthumously inducted into  the songwriters हॉल of कीर्ति in 1987  and into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 1994 .
Statue of  rip वैन winkle in  Irvington , New York , not far from `` Sunnyside `` , the home of Washington Irving
`` Rip Van Winkle '' is a short story by American author Washington Irving  प्रकाशित in 1819 , as खूब as the नाम of the स्टोरी  's fictional protagonist .
Written  जबकि इरविंग थी जीना in बर्मिंघम  , England , it was part of a collection entitled The Sketch Book of Geoffrey Crayon .
Although the story is set in New York 's  catskill kyu , इरविंग  later admitted , `` When I wrote the story , I had never been on the Catskills . ''
Throughout the fifty-five year history of  the ग्रैमी पुरस्कार , अनेक significant रिकॉर्ड have महरूम  set .
This page only includes  the प्रतिस्पर्धी पुरस्कार जीती  by various artists .
This does not include the various special awards that are presented by the National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences such as Lifetime  उपलब्धि पुरस्कार , trustees पुरस्कार  , Technical Awards or Legend Awards .
The page however  करता शामिल अन्य non-performance सम्बन्धित grammys ( ज्ञात as the  Craft & Production Fields ) that may have been presented to the artist ( s ) .
Pee-wee Herman is a comic fictional character  निर्मित और portrayed  by American comedian Paul Reubens .
He is best known for his two television  श्रेणी और फिल्मी श्रेणी दौरान the 1980s  .
The childlike Pee-wee Herman character developed as a  स्टेज अधिनियम कि जल्दी led to an एचबीओ खास in 1981  .
As the stage performance gained further  लोकप्रियता , reubens took the अक्षर to गति चित्र साथ pee-wee 's बिग एडवेंचर in 1985  , toning down the adult innuendo for the appeal of children .
This paved the way for Pee-wee  's playhouse , an एमी पुरस्कार जीतना children  's series that ran on CBS from 1986-1991 .
Another  फिल्मी , बिग शीर्ष pee-wee  , was released in 1988 .
Due to negative media attention following a scandal in 1991 , Reubens decided to shelve his alter ego during the  1990s , और तब धीरे resurrected it दौरान  the following decade .
It was  at कि समय कि  Reubens addressed plans to write a new Pee-wee film , Pee-wee 's Playhouse : The Movie .
In June 2007 , Reubens appeared as Pee-wee Herman for the first  समय चूंकि 1991 at स्पाइक tv 's  Guys ' Choice Awards .
That '70s Show is an American television period sitcom that centers on the lives of a group of  teenage मित्रों जीना in the fictional suburban कस्बा of पाइंट प्लेस , विस्कॉन्सिन  , from May 17 , 1976 , to December 31 , 1979 .
It  debuted on the फॉक्स टेलीविज़न संजाल , पहला airing on अगस्त 23 ,  1998 , running for eight consecutive seasons , and concluding with the 200th episode on May 18 , 2006 .
The main teenage cast members were Topher Grace , Mila Kunis , Ashton  कूचर , डैनी masterson , लौरा prepon , और wilmer  Valderrama .
The main adult cast  सदस्यों यहूद डेबरा jo rupp , kurtwood  Smith , Don Stark and , during the first three seasons , Tanya Roberts .
Kansas ( ) is a U.S. state  स्तिथ in the midwestern संयुक्त  States .
It  is नामित बाद the कान्सास नदी जिससे बहती through it ,  which in turn was named after the Kansa Native American tribe , which inhabited the area .
The  जनजाति 's नाम ( natively kką : ze ) is प्रायः कहा to औसत `` लोगों of the  wind '' or `` people of the south wind , '' although this was probably not the term 's original meaning .
Residents of  कान्सास हैं पुकारा ``  Kansans . ''
लिये हज़ारों of सालो कया is अभी  Kansas was home to numerous and diverse Native American tribes .
Tribes in the Eastern part of the state generally lived in villages  साथ the नदी घाटियों  .
Tribes in the  पश्चिमी भाग  of the state were semi- nomadic and hunted large herds of bison .
Kansas was first settled by European Americans in the 1830s , but the pace of settlement accelerated in the  1850s , in the midst of राजनैतिक युद्धों over the गुलामी समस्या .
When officially  खोली to उपनिवेश by the u.S. सरकारी in 1854 , abolitionist free-staters इससे  New England and pro-slavery settlers from neighboring Missouri rushed to the territory to determine if Kansas would become a free state or a slave state .
Thus , the area was a hotbed of violence and chaos in its early  दिनों as ये शक्तियां collided , और थी ज्ञात as  Bleeding Kansas .
The abolitionists eventually prevailed and on January 29  , 1861 , कान्सास डाला the संघ as a फ़्री राज्य  .
After the Civil  युद्ध , the जनसांख्यिकी of कान्सास grew rapidly , जब  waves of immigrants turned the prairie into farmland .
आज , कान्सास is एक of the सबसे उत्पादक agricultural राज्य , producing  high yields of wheat , sorghum and sunflowers .
Kansas is  the 15th सबसे extensive और the 33rd  most populous of the 50 United States .
Psychology is an academic  और लागू अनुशासन  that involves the scientific study of mental functions and behaviors .
Psychology has the immediate goal of understanding individuals and groups by both  establishing सामान्य सिद्धान्त और researching विशिष्ट मामले , और by  many accounts it ultimately aims to benefit society .
In this field , a professional or researcher is called  a मनोवैज्ञानिक और can be वर्गीकृत as a सोशल , behavioral  , or cognitive scientist .
Psychologists attempt to understand the role  of दिमागी कृत्यों in व्यक्तिगत और सोशल बर्ताव , जबकि भी exploring  the physiological and neurobiological processes that underlie certain cognitive functions and behaviors .
psychologists explore अवधारणाओं ऐसे as बोध  , cognition , attention , emotion , phenomenology , motivation , brain functioning , personality , behavior , and interpersonal relationships .
Psychologists of  विविध धारियाँ भी consider  the unconscious mind .
Psychologists employ empirical methods to infer causal and  correlational संबंध  between psychosocial variables .
In  जोड , or in विपक्ष , to employing  empirical and deductive methods , some—especially clinical and counseling psychologists—at times rely upon symbolic interpretation and other inductive techniques .
Psychology has been described as a `` hub  विज्ञान '' , साथ मनोवैज्ञानिक निष्कर्षों linking to शोध और perspectives इससे the सोशल sciences  , natural sciences , medicine , and the humanities , such as philosophy .
While psychological  ज्ञान is प्रायः लागू to the मूल्यांकन और उपचार of दिमागी स्वास्थ्य समस्याएं , it is भी  directed towards understanding and solving problems in many different spheres of human activity .
The  बहुमत of psychologists हैं शामिल in कुछ दयालु of therapeutic  role , practicing in clinical , counseling , or school settings .
Many do scientific research on a wide range of topics related to mental processes and behavior , and typically work in university psychology departments or  सिखा in अन्य अकादमिक जमावट ( e.g. ,  medical schools , hospitals ) .
Some are employed in industrial and organizational settings , or in other areas such as human development and aging , sports , health , and  the मीडिया , as खूब as in forensic छानबीन  and other aspects of law .
Thomas Jefferson ( April 13 , 1743 (  अप्रैल 2 , 1743 o.S. ) – जुलाई 4 , 1826 ) थी an अमरीकी founding  Father , the principal author of the Declaration of Independence ( 1776 ) and the third President of the United States ( 1801–1809 ) .
At the beginning of the American Revolution , he served in the Continental Congress ,  representing वर्जिनिया और तब परोसा as a wartime राज्यपाल of  Virginia ( 1779–1781 ) .
Just after the war  ended , इससे mid-1784 जेफरसन परोसा as a राजनयिक , stationed  in Paris .
In May 1785 , he became the United  राज्य मंत्री  to France .
जेफरसन थी the पहला  United States Secretary of State ( 1790–1793 ) serving under President George Washington .
With his close friend James Madison he organized the  democratic-republican पार्टी , और subsequently resigned इससे वॉशिंगटन 's कैबिनेट  .
Elected Vice President in  1796 , जब he आए in दूसरी to जॉन एडम्स of the federalists , जेफरसन opposed  Adams and with Madison secretly wrote the Kentucky and Virginia Resolutions , which attempted to nullify the Alien and Sedition Acts .
Elected president in what Jefferson called the Revolution of 1800 , he oversaw the purchase of the vast Louisiana Territory from France ( 1803 ) , and sent  the लुईस और क्लार्क expedition  ( 1804–1806 ) to explore the new west .
His second term was beset with troubles at home , such as the failed treason trial of his former  वाइस अध्यक्ष  Aaron Burr .
With escalating trouble with  ब्रिटेन जो थी चुनौतीपूर्ण अमरीकी neutrality और threatening शिपिंग at समुद्र , he आजमाया  economic warfare with his embargo laws which only damaged American trade .
In 1803 , President Jefferson initiated a process of Indian tribal removal and relocation to the Louisiana  territory वेस्ट of the मिसिसिपी नदी  , in order to open lands for eventual American settlers .
A leader in the Enlightenment , Jefferson was a polymath who  spoke पाँच भाषाएं धड़ल्ले और थी deeply दिलचस्पी in विज्ञान , आविष्कार , वास्तुकला , धर्म और दर्शनशास्त्र , रूचि  that led him to the founding of the University of Virginia after his presidency .
He designed his own  विशाल mansion on a 5,000 एकड़  plantation near Charlottesville , Virginia , which he named Monticello .
While not a notable orator , Jefferson was  a skilled लेखक और corresponded साथ अनेक influential लोगों  in America and Europe throughout his adult life .
Though  जेफरसन स्वामित्व अनेक स्लेव , he opposed  the institution all his life and consequently treated and took care of them very well and expected them to work no more than free farmers .
चूंकि 1802 इतिहासकारों और अन्य have महरूम विभाजित over the विवाद  of whether Jefferson was the father of one or more children belonging to Sally Hemings , a slave at Monticello . ''
Historians are  भी in असहमति साथ कैसा  much Jefferson was committed to the anti-slavery cause .
In 1807 ,  अध्यक्ष जेफरसन हस्ताक्षरित into विधि a विधेयक कि बैन  the importation of slaves into the United States .
After Martha Jefferson , his wife of eleven years , died in 1782 , Jefferson remained a widower for  the बाकी of उसके जीवन ; उनके विवाह उत्पादित छह children , of जिसको दो बच  to adulthood .
Though Jefferson  रै महरूम criticized by अनेक  modern day scholars over the issue of slavery , he remains rated as one of the greatest U.S. presidents .
`` Sun  नगर '' is a 1985 विरोध सोंग लिखा by स्टीवन वैन zandt , उत्पादित  by Van Zandt and Arthur Baker and recorded by Artists United Against Apartheid to convey opposition to the South African policy of apartheid .
The primary means of  कि विपक्ष is to घोषित कि सब the कलाकारों शामिल होता इंकार कोई और सब offers to perform at सूर्य नगर , a रिज़ॉर्ट जिससे थी  located in Bantustan of Bophuthatswana , one of a number of internationally unrecognized supposed `` independent '' states created by the South African government to forcibly relocate its black population .
This page is a list of characters in the  पुलिस अकादमी फिल्मी  and television series .
Bill  रसेल जीती 11 championships  with the Boston Celtics .
इस is a सूची of एनबीए खिलाड़ी  with most championships won as a player .
The National Basketball  संघ ( एनबीए ) is a  major professional basketball league in North America .
It was founded in 1946 as  the बास्केट  Association of America ( BAA ) .
The league adopted  इसके वर्तमान नाम at the प्रारंभ of the जब  it merged with the National Basketball League ( NBL ) .
The NBA Finals is  the चैंपियनशिप श्रेणी लिये the  NBA and the conclusion of the sport 's postseason .
the जीतना टोली of the श्रेणी  receives the Larry O'Brien Championship Trophy .
Players from the winning team usually receive championship rings  इससे the टोली honoring उनके योगदान  .
However , in some rare occasion ,  the टीमों opted to दिया अन्य commemorative वस्तुएं  , such as wrist watches , instead of rings .
The number of championships won by NBA superstars is often used  as a मापन of उनके विशालता  .
Boston Celtics center  विधेयक रसेल holds the रिकार्ड लिये the सबसे एनबीए championships  won with 11 titles during his 13-year playing career .
He won his first championship  साथ the बोस्टन सेल्टिक्स in  his rookie year .
Afterwards , he went on to  जीत 10 championships in the अगला 12 सालो , सहित  eight consecutive championships from 1959 to 1966 .
He won  the पिछला दो championships in  1968 and 1969 as player-coach .
Russell 's teammate , Sam Jones , won 10 championships  इससे 1959 to 1969 , the दूसरी सबसे  in NBA history .
Four Celtics players , Tom Heinsohn , K. C. Jones , Satch Sanders and John  havlicek , जीती आठ championships  each .
Two other  सेल्टिक्स , जिम loscutoff  and Frank Ramsey , won seven championships each .
Four players , Bob Cousy , Kareem Abdul-Jabbar , Michael Jordan  और scottie pippen , जीती छह championships  each .
Jordan and Pippen are  सदस्यों of the शिकागो bulls टोली जो जीती तीन लगातार  championships twice in the 1990s .
Robert Horry and  जॉन salley हैं the तभी खिलाड़ी to have  won the championships with three different teams .
Horry won seven championships with the Houston Rockets , the Los Angeles Lakers and the San Antonio  स्पर्स , जबकि salley जीती चार championships साथ the डेट्रॉयट  Pistons , the Bulls and the Lakers .
Frank Saul and Steve Kerr  हैं the तभी खिलाड़ी to जीत दो  championships with two different teams in consecutive seasons .
Saul won consecutive championships with the Rochester Royals and the Minneapolis Lakers in the 1950s ,  जबकि केर जीती लगातार championships  with the Bulls and the Spurs in the 1990s,
Accuracy indicates proximity of measurement results to the true value , precision to  the repeatability , or reproducibility  of the measurement
In the  फ़ील्ड of विज्ञान , अभियान्त्रिकी , उद्योग ,  and statistics , the accuracy of a measurement system is the degree of closeness of measurements of a quantity to that quantity 's actual ( true ) value .
The  परिशुद्धता of a मापन प्रणाली , भी पुकारा reproducibility or  repeatability , is the degree to which repeated measurements under unchanged conditions show the same results .
हालांकि the दो शब्द reproducibility और repeatability  can be synonymous in colloquial use , they are deliberately contrasted in the context of the scientific method .
A measurement system can be accurate  लकिन नहीं precise , precise लकिन नहीं सटीक  , neither , or both .
For example , if an experiment contains a systematic error , then increasing  the नमूना आकार generally increases परिशुद्धता लकिन करता नहीं  improve accuracy .
The result would be a  सतत yet inaccurate स्ट्रिंग of परिणाम इससे  the flawed experiment .
Eliminating the systematic error improves accuracy but does  नहीं बदलें  precision .
A measurement  प्रणाली is designated  valid if it is both accurate and precise .
Related terms include bias ( non- random or  निर्देशित प्रभाव caused by a फ़ैक्टर or कारकों unrelated to the  independent variable ) and error ( random variability ) .
The terminology  is भी लागू to अप्रत्यक्ष measurements—that  is , values obtained by a computational procedure from observed data .
In addition to accuracy and precision , measurements  may भी have a मापन रेज़ोल्यूशन , जिससे is the  smallest change in the underlying physical quantity that produces a response in the measurement .
In the case of full reproducibility , such as when rounding a  क्रमांक to a representable फ्लोटिंग पाइंट क्रमांक , the शब्द परिशुद्धता रै  a meaning not related to reproducibility .
For example , in the IEEE  754-2008 मानक it अर्थात् the क्रमांक of बिट्स in the significand , so it is प्रयुक्त as a  measure for the relative accuracy with which an arbitrary number can be represented .
Fuck in its literal meaning refers to the  अधिनियम of यौन मैथुन  .
It is an English word  कि is प्रायः प्रयुक्त as a profanity  , either to denote disdain or as an intensifier .
The origin of  the शब्द is अस्पष्ट  .
It is usually considered to be first  attested to around 1475 , लकिन it may be  considerably older .
In modern usage , fuck and its derivatives ( such as fucker and fucking ) can be used in the  स्थिति of a संज्ञा , a क्रिया , an क्रियाशील  or an adverb .
There are many common phrases which make use of the word , as well as  a क्रमांक of यौगिकों incorporating it , ऐसे as motherfucker  .
Animated , color-coded map showing  the विभिन्न महाद्वीपों और  regions .
Depending on the convention and model ,  कुछ महाद्वीपों  may be consolidated or subdivided : for example , Eurasia is most often subdivided into Europe and Asia ( red shades ) , while North and South America are sometimes recognized as one American continent ( green shades ) .
A  महाद्वीप is एक of  several very large landmasses on Earth .
They are generally identified by convention rather than any strict criteria , with up to seven regions commonly  regarded as continents—they हैं ( इससे largest  in size to smallest ) : Asia , Africa , North America , South America , Antarctica , Europe , and Australia .
In geology , continents are  वर्णित by अर्थात् of  tectonic plates .
Plate  विवर्तनिकी is the प्रक्रम और पढ़ाई  of the movement , collision and division of continents , earlier known as continental drift .
Biker Boyz is  a 2003 फिल्मी परिचय a समूह of भूमिगत  motorcycle drag racers .
It stars Laurence Fishburne , Djimon Hounsou , Derek  ल्यूक , meagan शुभ , और larenz टेट और is लिखा और निर्देशित by reggie  Rock Bythewood .
It also features Lisa  bonet , ऑरलैंडो जोन्स  , Kid Rock and Vanessa Bell Calloway .
For the  स्टील पैंथर सोंग  , see Feel the Steel .
Community property is a marital property regime that originated in  सिविल विधि jurisdictions और is अभी भी  found in some common law jurisdictions .
The states of the United States that recognize community property are primarily in the West ; it was inherited from Mexico 's ganancial community system , which itself was  inherited इससे स्पेनी विधि ( a रोमन -derived सिविल विधि प्रणाली ) और ultimately इससे the visigoths  .
While under Spanish rule  louisiana अपनाया the ganancial जातियाँ प्रणाली of acquests और  gains , which replaced the traditional French community of movables and acquests in its civil law system .
Map of the United  राज्य साथ जातियाँ प्रॉपर्टी राज्य highlighted  in red .
In addition to the highlighted states ,  अलास्का is a पृथक प्रॉपर्टी राज्य कि permits युगल  to opt into a community property arrangement .
In a community property jurisdiction , most property  acquired दौरान the विवाह ( मगर लिये उपहार or inheritances  ) —the community , or communio bonorum—is owned jointly by both spouses and is divided upon divorce , annulment or death .
Joint ownership is automatically presumed by law in the absence  of विशिष्ट प्रमाण कि होता पाइंट to  a contrary conclusion for a particular piece of property .
Division of  जातियाँ प्रॉपर्टी may लो प्लेस by  item , by splitting all items or by value .
In some jurisdictions , such as California , a 50/50 division of community property is strictly mandated by  statute , अर्थ कि the फ़ोकस तब शिफ्ट to whether particular वस्तुएं हैं to  be classified as community or separate property .
in अन्य jurisdictions , ऐसे as टेक्सास , a तलाक अदालत may डिक्री an `` निष्पक्ष वितरण ``  of community property , which may result in an unequal division of such .
In non-community property states  प्रॉपर्टी may be विभाजित by  equitable distribution .
Generally speaking , the property that each partner brings into the marriage or receives by gift ,  bequest or मक्कारी दौरान विवाह is पुकारा पृथक प्रॉपर्टी ( i.e.  , not community property ) .
See  प्रभाग of प्रॉपर्टी  .
Division of community  debts may नहीं be the वही as प्रभाग  of community property .
For example , in  कैलिफ़ोर्निया , जातियाँ प्रॉपर्टी is जरूरी to be विभाजित  `` equally '' while community debt is required to be divided `` equitably '' .
Property that is owned by one spouse before the marriage is the separate property of that spouse ,  जबतक the प्रॉपर्टी is `` transmuted '' into जातियाँ प्रॉपर्टी  .
The rules for this vary  इससे क्षेत्राधिकार  to jurisdiction .
the ड्यूक और duchess  of Cambridge waving to the crowd at The Mall shortly after the wedding .
the विवाह of प्रिंस विलियम  , Duke of Cambridge , and Catherine Middleton took place on 29 April 2011 at Westminster Abbey in London .
The groom , Prince William , Duke of Cambridge  , is the ज्येष्ठ बेटे of चार्ल्स , प्रिंस of वेल्स , और is दूसरी in the लकीर  of succession to the British Throne and the thrones of fifteen other Commonwealth realms .
The bride ,  कैथरीन `` केट '' मिडलटन is the  eldest of three children of Michael and Carole Middleton of Bucklebury , Berkshire .
The Dean of Westminster , John Hall , presided at the service ; the Archbishop of Canterbury , Rowan Williams , conducted the marriage ; Richard Chartres , the Bishop of  लंदन , preached the उपदेश ; और a पढना थी दिए by the बहू  's brother , James .
William 's best  man थी उसके bhai , प्रिंस हैरी , जबकि  the bride 's sister , Pippa , was maid of honour .
The ceremony was attended by the bride 's and groom 's families , as well as many foreign  रॉयल्स , राजनयिकों , और the युगल  's chosen personal guests .
बाद the रस्म , the युगल बना the परंपरागत  appearance on the balcony of Buckingham Palace .
as प्रिंस विलियम थी नहीं the वारिस apparent to the सिंहासन  , the wedding was not a full state occasion and many details were left to the couple to decide , such as much of the guest list of about 1,900 .
प्रिंस विलियम  and Kate Middleton met in 2001 .
Their engagement on 20  अक्तूबर 2010 थी घोषित  on 16 November 2010 .
The build-up to the wedding and the occasion itself  आकर्षित much मीडिया ध्यान , होने compared in अनेक तरीके साथ the 1981 विवाह  of William 's parents .
The occasion was a public holiday in the United Kingdom and featured many ceremonial  पहलुओं , सहित उपयोग of the राज्य carriages  and roles for the Foot Guards and Household Cavalry .
Events were held around the Commonwealth to mark the wedding ; organisations and hotels held events across Canada , over 5,000 street  पार्टियों यहूद आयोजित throughout the संयुक्त किंगडम , और एक लाख लोगों lined  the route between Westminster Abbey and Buckingham Palace .
The  रस्म थी viewed सजीव by tens of लाखो अधिक  around the world , including 72 million on the YouTube Royal Channel .
In the United Kingdom ,  टेलीविज़न ऑडियंस peaked at 26.3 लाख दर्शक  , with a total of 36.7 million watching part of the coverage .
Vanessa Joy Lachey ( née Minnillo ; born November 9 , 1980 ) is an  अमरीकी टेलीविज़न व्यक्तित्व , टेलीविज़न मेजबान , फ़ैशन  model , and actress .
Minnillo was  भी नामित मिस टीन यूएसए  in 1998 .
She has been a New York  -आधारd correspondent लिये entertainment tonight  and hosted Total Request Live on MTV .
A hand ( med . /  lat . : manus , pl . manūs ) is a prehensile , multi-  fingered extremity located at the end of an arm or forelimb of primates and humans , chimpanzees , monkeys , and lemurs .
A few other vertebrates such as the koala (  जिससे रै दो opposable thumbs on प्रत्येक `` हाथ '' और फिंगरप्रिंट remarkably  similar to human fingerprints ) are often described as having either `` hands '' or `` paws '' on their front limbs .
Hands are the main structures for physically manipulating the environment ,  प्रयुक्त लिये दोनो सकल मोटर कौशल ( ऐसे as grasping a विशाल ऑब्जेक्ट ) और ठीक मोटर कौशल ( ऐसे as picking  up a small pebble ) .
The fingertips contain some of the densest areas of nerve endings on the body , are the richest  सोर्स of tactile प्रतिक्रिया , और have the महानतम positioning काबिलियत of the देह ; यूँ  the sense of touch is intimately associated with hands .
Like other paired organs ( eyes , feet , legs ) , each hand is dominantly controlled by the opposing brain hemisphere , so that handedness , or the preferred hand choice for single-handed activities such as writing with a pencil , reflects individual  दिमाग कामकाज  .
Some evolutionary anatomists use the term hand to refer to the appendage of digits on the forelimb more generally — for example , in the  कॉन्टेक्स्ट of whether the तीन अंक of the बर्ड हाथ शामिल the वही समजात घाटा of दो अंक as in the डायनासोर  hand .
The human hand has 27 bones ,  नहीं सहित the sesamoid हड्डियों  which number varies between people .
14 of which are the  phalanges ( proximal  , intermediate and distal ) of the fingers .
The metacarpals are the bones that connects the  उंगलियाँ और the कलाई .
Each human hand  रै 5 metacarpals और 8  carpal bones .
Too Cool was a  पेशेवर कुश्ती टैग टोली और पूर्व गुट सबसे notably क्रियाशील  in World Wrestling Federation/Entertainment between 1998 and 2001 and for a short time in 2004 .
Basic digital  सचेतक क्लॉक बगैर  a radio .
The mark in the top-left of  the प्रदर्शक indicates कि the समय  is 4:00pm , not 4:00am .
A 1969 radio  सचेतक क्लॉक ( सोनी digimatic 8fc-59w  ) with an early mechanical-digital display .
A digital clock is a type of clock that displays the  समय डिजिटली , i.e . in numerals or अन्य प्रतीकों , as opposed to an एनालॉग क्लॉक  , where the time is indicated by the positions of rotating hands .
Digital clocks are often associated with electronic drives , but the `` digital '' description  refers तभी to the प्रदर्शक , नहीं to the ड्राइव यांत्रिकी .
( Both analog and digital clocks can  be चलित either mechanically or electronically , लकिन `` घटीयंत्र '' mechanisms साथ डिजिटल  displays are rare . )
The biggest  डिजिटल क्लॉक is the lichtzeitpegel ( `` लाइट समय स्तर  '' ) on the television tower Rheinturm Düsseldorf , Germany .
Family Guy creator  सेठ macfarlane भी provides the आवाज़ें of  Peter Griffin , Stewie Griffin , Brian Griffin , and Glenn Quagmire .
Family Guy is an American animated sitcom that features five  प्रमुख आवाज़ अभिनेताओं , और numerous नियमित डाल और पुनरावर्ती  guest stars .
The principal  आवाज़ डाल  consists of show creator Seth MacFarlane , Alex Borstein , Seth Green , Mila Kunis ( who replaced Lacey Chabert after the first season ) and Mike Henry and now , the new actor Beau Osborne .
Recurring voice actors include Patrick Warburton , Adam West , John G. Brennan , Nicole Sullivan and Jennifer Tilly  , और repeat अतिथि सितारों शामिल फिलिस diller , चार्ल्स durning , फटाफट limbaugh  , and Phil LaMarr .
Many cast members provide  आवाज़ें लिये अनेक  characters .
The voice actors , in portraying the various character personalities on the  दिखाएँ , चित्रण प्रेरणा इससे हस्तियाँ और पॉप  culture .
Family Guy characters have been played  by अधिक than एक कर्ता , बाद सदस्यों of the दिखाएँ बाएँ the  series or had conflicting obligations .
Kunis was nominated for an Annie Award for voicing Meg Griffin  in the ऋतु 5 एपीसोड `` मुश्किल विधिक `` और macfarlane रै भी जीती an एमी पुरस्कार लिये बकाया voice-over प्रदर्शन  and an Annie Award for Best Voice Acting in an Animated Television Production , though no other cast member has won an award for their work on the series .
The five sets of the board game Monopoly depicted here show the evolution of the game  's कलाकृति और डिजाइन in  the United States from 1935–2005 .
The history of  the फलक खेल एकाधिकार  can be traced back to the early 20th century .
The earliest known design was by the American , Elizabeth Magie , patented in 1904  लकिन मौजूदा as जल्दी as 1902 .
Magie 's original intent was to publish a board game to illustrate an economic principle ,  namely the georgist अवधारणा of a सिंगल  land value tax .
A  श्रेणी of फलक खेल यहूद विकसित इससे 1906 through  the 1930s that involved the buying and selling of land and the development of that land .
By 1934 , a board game had been  निर्मित much जैसे the संस्करण of एकाधिकार बेची by पार्कर भाइयो और इसके सम्बन्धित  companies through the rest of the 20th century , and into the 21st .
Several people , mostly in the Midwestern  संयुक्त राज्य और निकट  the East Coast , contributed to the game 's design and evolution .
By the 1970s , the idea that the game had been created solely by Charles Darrow had become popular folklore ; it  थी मुद्रित in the खेल 's निर्देश लिये अनेक सालो , in a 1974 किताब devoted to एकाधिकार , और थी cited  in a general book about toys even as recently as 2007 .
Even a guide  to परिवार खेल प्रकाशित लिये रीडर 's डाइजेस्ट in 2003 तभी दिया  credit to Darrow and Elizabeth Magie , erroneously stating that Magie 's original game was created in the 1800s , and not acknowledging any of the game 's development between Magie 's creation of the game , and the eventual publication by Parker Brothers .
Also in the 1970s , Professor Ralph Anspach , who had himself published a board game intended to illustrate the principles of both  monopolies और विश्वास busting , लड़ा पार्कर भाइयो और इसके तब जनक कम्पनी , सामान्य मिलों , over the trademarks  of the Monopoly board game .
Through the research of Anspach and others , much of the  जल्दी इतिहास of the खेल  was `` rediscovered '' .
Anspach confronted Maxine Brady , author of the 1974  किताब the एकाधिकार किताब : रणनीति और tactics of the संसार 's सबसे लोकप्रिय  Game over the actual history of the game on Barry Farber 's New York City talk show in 1975 .
Because of the lengthy court process , including appeals , the legal status  of पार्कर भाइयो ' trademarks on the खेल थी नहीं settled  until 1985 .
The game 's name remains a registered trademark of Parker  भाइयो , as do इसके विशिष्ट डिज़ाइन तत्व  .
At the conclusion of the court case , the game 's logo and graphic design  तत्व became भाग of a larger एकाधिकार ब्रांड , licensed by पार्कर  Brothers ' parent companies onto a variety of items through the present day .
Despite the `` rediscovery '' of the board game 's early history in the 1970s and 1980s , and several books and journal articles on the subject , Hasbro ( Parker Brothers  ' वर्तमान जनक कम्पनी ) किया नहीं acknowledge कोई of the खेल 's इतिहास पहले चार्ल्स darrow on इसके आधिकारिक एकाधिकार जालस्थल  as recently as June 2012 .
Nor did Hasbro acknowledge anyone other than Darrow in materials  प्रकाशित or प्रायोजित by उन्हें , at तनिक as recently  as 2006 .
International tournaments , first held in the early 1970s ,  continue to the उपस्थित , साथ the अगला संसार चैंपियनशिप  likely scheduled for 2013 .
Starting in 1985 , a new generation of spin-off board games  और कार्ड खेल appeared on दोनो पहलू of the अटलांटिक  Ocean .
In 1989 , the  पहला of अनेक वीडियो खेल  and computer game editions was published .
Since 1994 , many official variants of the game , based on locations other  than अटलांटिक नगर , नई जर्सी ( the आधिकारिक u.S. सेटिंग ) or लंदन ( the आधिकारिक राष्ट्रमंडल  setting , excepting Canada ) , have been published by Hasbro or its licensees .
In 2008 , Hasbro permanently changed the color scheme and some of the  gameplay of the मानक u.s . संस्करण of the खेल to मैच the uk संस्करण , हालांकि the u.S. मानक संस्करण maintains the अटलांटिक  City property names .
Hasbro also modified the official logo to give the `` Mr . Monopoly '' character a 3-D  computer-generated dekh , जिससे रै चूंकि महरूम अपनाया by licensees usaopoly , जीतना चालें और  Winning Solutions .
And Hasbro has also been including the Speed Die , introduced in 2006 's Monopoly : The Mega Edition by Winning Moves Games , in versions produced directly by  हास्ब्रो ( ऐसे as the 2009 चैंपियनशिप  Edition ) .
In baseball , a sacrifice fly is  a batted बॉल कि  satisfies four criteria:
There are fewer than  दो outs जब the  ball is hit .
The ball is hit to the outfield ( fair or foul ) ,  or to infield  foul territory .
The batter is put out because an outfielder ( or an infielder running in the outfield , or foul territory ) catches the ball on the fly ( alternatively if the batter would have  महरूम आउट if नहीं लिये an गलती or if the outfielder बूंदें the बॉल और another  runner is put out ) .
A runner who is already  on आधार स्कोर on the  play .
It is called a `` sacrifice '' fly because the batter presumably intends to cause a teammate to  स्कोर a चलाएं , जबकि sacrificing उसके अपना क्षमता  to do so .
Minnesota ( ) is a U.S. state  स्तिथ in the midwestern संयुक्त  States .
Minnesota was carved out of the  पूर्वी हाफ of the मिनेसोटा territory  and admitted to the Union as the 32nd state on May 11 , 1858 .
Known as the `` Land of 10,000 Lakes '' , the state 's name  आता इससे a डकोटा शब्द लिये `` sky-tinted  water '' .
Those waters , together with forests , parks , and wilderness areas , offer residents and tourists a variety of  बाहरी recreational अवसर  .
Minnesota is the 12th most extensive and  the 21st सबसे populous of the  U.S. states .
Nearly 60 % of its residents live in the Minneapolis–Saint Paul metropolitan area ( known  as the `` जुड़वा शहरों '' ) , the बीच of परिवहन , कारोबार , उद्योग  , education , government and home to an internationally known arts community .
the शेष of the राज्य consists of पश्चिमी prairies अभी दिए over  to intensive agriculture ; deciduous forests in the southeast , now cleared , farmed and settled ; and the less populated North Woods , used for mining , forestry , and recreation .
Minnesota is known for its relatively mixed  सोशल और राजनैतिक orientations ,  and has a high rate of civic participation and voter turnout .
Minnesota ranks among the healthiest  राज्य , और रै a अत्यधिक साक्षर जनसांख्यिकी  .
The large majority of  निवासियों हैं of scandinavian  and German descent .
The state is known as a center  of scandinavian अमरीकी  culture .
Ethnic diversity has increased in  हाल दशकों .
Substantial influxes of Asian , African , and Latin American immigrants have joined the descendants of European  settlers और the  original Native American inhabitants .
अनुदान हैं non-repayable निधि by एक पार्टी ( ग्रान्ट makers ) , प्रायः a सरकारी विभाग  , corporation , foundation or trust , to a , often ( but not always ) a nonprofit entity , educational institution , business or an individual .
In order to receive a grant , some form of `` Grant  लिखने '' प्रायः referred to as either a प्रस्ताव  or an application is usually required .
Most grants are made to fund a specific project and  आवश्यकता कुछ स्तर of अनुपालन  and reporting .
The grant writing process  involves an आवेदक submitting a प्रस्ताव ( or सबमिशन ) to a संभावित  funder , either on the applicant 's own initiative or in response to a Request for Proposal from the funder .
Other grants can be given to  individuals , ऐसे as पीड़ितों of प्राकृतिक  disasters or individuals who seek to open a small business .
Sometimes grant makers require grant seekers to have some form of tax-exempt  औकात , be a पंजीकृत nonprofit  organization or a local government .
For example , tiered funding for a freeway are very large grants  negotiated at सरकारी नीति स्तर  .
However smaller  अनुदान may be provided  by a government agency ( e.g . municipal government ) .
Project-related funding involving governments ,  कारोबार , समुदायों , और individuals is प्रायः  arranged by application either in writing or online .
Naturally occurring cobalt ( Co ) is composed of 1 stable isotope , 59Co . 28 radioisotopes have been characterized with the most  stable होने 60co साथ a half-life of 5.2714 सालो , 57co साथ a half-life of 271.79 दिनों , 56co साथ a half-life  of 77.27 days , and 58Co with a half-life of 70.86 days .
All of the remaining  रेडियोसक्रिय isotopes have half-lives कि हैं कम than  18 hours and the majority of these have half-lives that are less than 1 second .
This element also has 11  मेटा राज्य , सब of जिससे have half-lives  less than 15 minutes .
The isotopes of cobalt  दायरा in परमाणु वज़न  from 47Co to 75Co .
The primary decay mode for isotopes with atomic mass unit values less than that of the most abundant stable isotope  , 59co , is इलेक्ट्रॉन कैप्चर और the प्राथमिक विधि of क्षय लिये those of वृहद than 59 परमाणु  mass units is beta decay .
The primary decay products  पहले 59co हैं आयरन isotopes और the प्राथमिक  products after are nickel isotopes .
Standard atomic mass :  58.933195 ( 5 ) u
Who  स्थानांतरित my  Cheese ?
An Amazing Way to Deal with Change in Your Work and in Your  जीवन , प्रकाशित in 1998 , is a प्रेरक किताब by स्पेंसर  Johnson written in the style of a parable or business fable .
It describes change in one 's work  और जीवन , और चार ठेठ प्रतिक्रियाएँ to कहा बदलें by दो चूहे  and two `` littlepeople '' , during their hunt for cheese .
A New York Times business bestseller since release , Who  स्थानांतरित my चीज ?
remained on the list for almost five years and spent over 200 weeks on  प्रकाशक साप्ताहिक 's सजिल्द nonfiction सूची  .
It has  बेची अधिक than 26 लाख  copies worldwide in 37 languages and remains to be one of the best-selling business books .
Nikita  sergeyevich khrushchev ( – सितंबर 11 , 1971 )  led the Soviet Union during part of the Cold War .
He served as First Secretary of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union  इससे 1953 to 1964 , और as अध्यक्ष of the परिषद of मंत्रियों  , or Premier , from 1958 to 1964 .
Khrushchev was responsible for the partial de-Stalinization of the Soviet Union , for backing the  प्रगति of the जल्दी सोवियत स्पेस कार्यक्रम , और लिये अनेक अपेक्षाकृत उदार  reforms in areas of domestic policy .
Khrushchev 's party colleagues removed him  इससे शक्ति in 1964 , replacing  him with Leonid Brezhnev as First Secretary and Alexei Kosygin as Premier .
Khrushchev was born in the Russian village of Kalinovka in 1894 ,  बंद to the present-day किनारा between रूस  and Ukraine .
He was employed as a metalworker in his youth ,  और दौरान the रूसी सिविल युद्ध थी a राजनैतिक  commissar .
With the help of Lazar  kaganovich , he worked  his way up the Soviet hierarchy .
He supported Joseph Stalin 's purges , and approved  हज़ारों of रखवाले  .
In  1939 , स्टालिन भेजा उसे  to govern Ukraine , and he continued the purges there .
During what was known in the Soviet Union as the Great  patriotic युद्ध ( पूर्वी सामने of संसार युद्ध ii ) , khrushchev थी again a  commissar , serving as an intermediary between Stalin and his generals .
Khrushchev was present at the bloody defense of  stalingrad , a फैक्ट he took ग्रेट  pride in throughout his life .
After the war , he returned to  युक्त पहले होने recalled to मास्को  as one of Stalin 's close advisers .
In the power struggle triggered by Stalin 's death  in 1953 , khrushchev , बाद अनेक  years , emerged victorious .
On February 25 , 1956 , at the 20th Party Congress ,  he वितरित the `` रहस्य वाक , '' denouncing स्टालिन  's purges and ushering in a less repressive era in the Soviet Union .
His domestic policies , aimed at bettering  the जीवनदान of ordinary नागरिकों , यहूद प्रायः अप्रभावी  , especially in the area of agriculture .
Hoping eventually to rely on  मिसाइलें लिये नेशनल रक्षा , khrushchev  ordered major cuts in conventional forces .
Despite the cuts , Khrushchev 's rule  देखी the tensest सालो of the  Cold War , culminating in the Cuban Missile Crisis .
Some of Khrushchev 's policies were seen as erratic , particularly by his  उभरते विरोधियों , जो चुपचाप रोज़ in शक्ति और अपदस्थ उसे in अक्तूबर 1964  .
He did not suffer the deadly fate of some previous losers of Soviet power struggles , but was pensioned off with an  अपार्टमेंट in मास्को और a dacha in the countryside  .
His lengthy memoirs were  smuggled to the वेस्ट और प्रकाशित  in part in 1970 .
Khrushchev died  in 1971 of दिल  disease .
Upper gastrointestinal (  gi ) bleeding refers to hemorrhage  in the upper gastrointestinal tract .
The anatomic cut-off for upper GI bleeding is the ligament of Treitz , which  connects the चौथी portion of the  duodenum to the diaphragm near the splenic flexure of the colon .
Upper  gi bleeds हैं माना चिकित्सा  emergencies , and require admission to hospital for urgent diagnosis and management .
due to अग्रिम in medications  and endoscopy , upper GI hemorrhage is now usually treated without surgery .
World  जनसांख्यिकी estimates इससे 1800 to 2100 , आधारित on un 2010 projections  ( red , orange , green ) and US Census Bureau historical estimates ( black ) .
Actual  अंकित जनसांख्यिकी आंकड़े  are in blue .
According to the highest estimate , the world population may rise  to 16 अरब by 2100 ; according to the न्यूनतम अनुमान , it may  decline to 6 billion .
the संसार जनसांख्यिकी is the कुल  number of living humans on Earth .
As of today , it is estimated to number  अरब by the संयुक्त राज्य जनसांख्यिकी  Bureau ( USCB ) .
The  uscb estimates कि the संसार जनसांख्यिकी  exceeded 7 billion on March 12 , 2012 .
According to a separate estimate by the United  राष्ट्र जनसांख्यिकी निधि , it पहुँचे  this milestone on October 31 , 2011 .
The world population has experienced continuous growth since the end of the  ग्रेट अकाल और the ब्लैक मौत in 1350 , जब it stood at around  370 million .
The highest rates of growth – global population increases above 1.8 % per year – were seen briefly during the  1950s , और लिये a longer काल दौरान the 1960s और  1970s .
The growth  रेट peaked at 2.2 % in 1963 , और  had declined to 1.1 % by 2011 .
Total annual births were  उच्चतम in the लेट 1980s at परिचय 138 लाख , और हैं अभी अपेक्षित  to remain essentially constant at their 2011 level of 134 million , while deaths number 56 million per year , and are expected to increase to 80 million per year by 2040 .
Current projections  दिखाएँ a जारी बढ़ाएँ in जनसांख्यिकी in the निकट भविष्य ( लकिन a स्थिर मनाही  in the population growth rate ) , with the global population expected to reach between 7.5 and 10.5 billion by 2050 .
Various longer-term estimates predict further growth , stagnation , or even overall decline in  the वैश्विक जनसांख्यिकी by 2150  .
Some analysts have  questioned the स्थिरता of further संसार जनसांख्यिकी  growth , citing the growing pressures on the environment , global food supplies , and energy resources .
Philips Lumileds Lighting Company is the manufacturer of a wide range of  high-power/high-efficiency light-emitting diodes ( leds  ) .
It is a  अभी a fully स्वामित्व प्रभाग  of Philips Lighting .
Knuckle mnemonic for the number of days in each  माह of the gregorian पंचांग  .
प्रत्येक projecting knuckle  represents a 31-day month .
A mnemonic ( , with a silent `` m '' ) , or mnemonic device  , is कोई सीखना तकनीक  that aids information retention .
Mnemonics aim to translate information into a form  कि the इंसान दिमाग can retain  better than its original form .
Even the process of applying  इस परिवर्तन might already सहायता the ट्रांसफ़र of सूचना  to long-term memory .
Commonly encountered mnemonics are often for lists and in auditory form , such as short poems , acronyms , or memorable phrases , but mnemonics can also be for  अन्य प्रकार of सूचना और in विज़ुअल or kinesthetic  forms .
Their use is based on the observation that the human mind more easily remembers spatial , personal , surprising , physical ,  यौन , humorous , or वरना 'relatable ' सूचना , बल्कि than अधिक अमूर्त or  impersonal forms of information .
The word  mnemonic is निकला इससे the प्राचीन यूनानी शब्द μνημονικός ( mnēmonikos ) , अर्थ `` of  memory '' and is related to Mnemosyne ( `` remembrance '' ) , the name of the goddess of memory in Greek mythology .
Both of these words  हैं निकला इससे  μνήμη ( mnēmē ) , `` remembrance , memory '' .
Mnemonics in antiquity were most often  माना in the कॉन्टेक्स्ट of  what is today known as the Art of memory .
Ancient Greeks and Romans distinguished between two types of  मेमोरी : the 'natural ' मेमोरी और the 'artificial ' मेमोरी .
The former is inborn , and is the one that  everyone उपयोग automatically  and without thinking .
The artificial memory in contrast has to be trained  और विकसित through the सीखना  and practicing of a variety of mnemonic techniques .
Mnemonic systems are special techniques or strategies consciously used  to improve मेमोरी , it helps employ सूचना already भंडारित  in long-term memory to make memorization an easier task .
President Bush signing the No Child Left  पीछे अधिनियम at हैमिल्टन h.s  . in Hamilton , Ohio .
The No Child Left Behind Act of 2001 ( NCLB ) is a United States Act of Congress that is a reauthorization of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act , which included Title I , the government 's  फ्लैगशिप सहायता कार्यक्रम लिये सुविधाहीन विद्यार्थी .
NCLB supports standards-based education reform based on the premise that  सेटिंग ऊँची मानकों और establishing measurable लक्ष्य can  improve individual outcomes in education .
The Act requires states to develop  आकलन in मौलिक कौशल  .
States must give these assessments  to सब विद्यार्थी at चुनें ग्रेड स्तर  in order to receive federal school funding .
The Act does  नहीं assert a नेशनल उपलब्धि  standard ; standards are set by each individual state .
NCLB expanded the federal role in public education through  सालाना परीक्षण ,  annual academic progress , report cards , teacher qualifications , and funding changes .
The bill passed in the U.S.  कॉंग्रेस साथ  bipartisan support .
Dodge B Series utility circa 1950 ,  चलित by  Albert Namatjira
A pickup truck or pick-up , often simply  referred to as a पिकअप , is a लाइट मोटर  vehicle with an open-top , rear cargo area ( bed ) .
In North America , the term pickup is used for light  ट्रक साथ a हल्का ड्यूटी chassis और फैक्टरी  built , integrated bed , as well as for coupé utility vehicles , often based on a personal car chassis , but also often on a special dedicated chassi for such use .
Some countries have their own terms  समान to पिकअप , ऐसे as ute in ऑस्ट्रेलिया और नई जीलैंड , or bakkie  in South Africa .
Large pickup trucks are somewhat rare in Europe , where vans and  लाइट lorries हैं commonly प्रयुक्त  for similar roles .
This  15th-century चित्रण of शारलेमेन और पोप एड्रियन i shows  a well-bred medieval horse with arched neck , refined head and elegant gait .
Horses in the Middle Ages differed in size , build and breed from the  आधुनिक घोड़ा , और यहूद  , on average , smaller .
They were also more central  to समाज than उनके आधुनिक counterparts , होने अनिवार्य  for war , agriculture , and transport .
Consequently , specific types of horse developed , many of which have no  आधुनिक समतुल्य  .
While an understanding of modern horse breeds and equestrianism is vital for any  विश्लेषण of the मध्यकालीन घोड़ा , शोधकर्ताओं भी need to consider  documentary ( both written and pictorial ) and archaeological evidence .
Horses in the Middle Ages were rarely differentiated by breed , but  बल्कि by उपयोग .
This led them to be described , for example , as `` chargers  `` ( युद्ध घोड़े ) , `` palfreys  `` ( riding horses ) , cart horses or packhorses .
Reference is also given to their place of origin , such as `` Spanish  घोड़े , '' लकिन whether  this referred to one breed or several is unknown .
Another difficulty arising during any study of medieval documents or literature is  the लचीलापन of the मध्यकालीन भाषाएं , जहाँ अनेक शब्द  can be used for one thing ( or , conversely , several objects are referred to by one word ) .
Words such  as ' courser ' और 'चार्जr ' हैं प्रयुक्त interchangeably ( भी भीतर एक  document ) , and where one epic may speak disparagingly of a rouncey , another praises its skill and swiftness .
Significant technological advances in equestrian equipment , often  introduced इससे अन्य संस्कृतियों , अनुमत लिये significant  changes in both warfare and agriculture .
In particular , improved designs for the solid-treed saddle as well as the  आगमन of the रकाब , नाल और घोड़ा कॉलर यहूद  significant advances in medieval society .
Consequently , the assumptions and theories developed by  इतिहासकारों हैं नहीं निर्णायक , और बहस स्टिल rages on अनेक मुद्दे  , such as the breeding or size of the horse , and a number of sources must be consulted in order to understand the breadth of the subject .
the म्यूज़िक man is a musical  with book , music , and lyrics by Meredith Willson , based on a story by Willson and Franklin Lacey .
The plot concerns  कॉन man हेरोल्ड हिल , जो मुद्राएँ as a लड़कों ' बैंड आयोजक और नेता और बिकता बैंड  instruments and uniforms to naive townsfolk before skipping town with the cash .
In River City , Iowa , prim librarian and piano teacher Marian Paroo  sees through उसे , लकिन जब हिल helps उसके younger  brother overcome his fear of social interactions due to his lisp , Marian begins to fall in love with Harold .
Harold ,  in फेरे गिरना लिये marian ,  risks being caught to win her .
In 1957 , the show became a hit on Broadway ,  जीतना पाँच टोनी पुरस्कार , सहित  Best Musical , and running for 1,375 performances .
The cast album won the first Grammy Award for `` Best Original Cast Album '' and was number one on  the बिलबोर्ड चार्ट लिये 245 सप्ताह  .
The show 's success led to revivals and a popular 1962 film adaptation and a  2003 टेलीविज़न रीमेक  .
It  अक्सर is उत्पादित  by both professional and amateur theater companies .
Surveyor  's व्हील
A surveyor 's wheel  , भी पुकारा a clickwheel , hodometer , waywiser , trundle व्हील ,  measuring wheel , or perambulator is a device for measuring distance .
largest non-polar  deserts
Sand dunes in the Rub '  al खली ( `` खाली क्वार्टर  '' ) of Saudi Arabia .
Makhtesh Ramon ,  negev मरुस्थल , इसराईल
A desert is a landscape or region  of जमीन कि is बहुत शुष्क क्युकी of कम वर्षा amounts ( वर्षण ) , प्रायः रै  little coverage by plants , and in which streams dry up unless they are supplied by water from outside areas .
Deserts can also be described as areas where more water is lost by  evapotranspiration than जलप्रपात as वर्षण  .
मरुस्थल पौधे जरूर  have special adaptations to survive with this little water .
रेगिस्तान generally प्राप्त  less than 25 cm of rain ( precipitation ) each year .
Semideserts or steppes  हैं regions जिससे प्राप्त  between and .
In the Köppen climate classification system ,  रेगिस्तान हैं classed as bwh ( hot मरुस्थल ) or  BWk ( temperate desert ) .
In the Thornthwaite climate classification system , deserts would be  वर्गीकृत as arid megathermal  climates .
World War I ( WWI ) was a global war centred in Europe that  began on 28 जुलाई 1914 और lasted  until 11 November 1918 .
It was predominantly called the World War or the Great War from its  occurrence जबतक the प्रारंभ of संसार युद्ध ii in 1939 , और  the First World War or World War I thereafter .
It involved all the world 's great powers , which were assembled in two opposing  alliances : the allies ( आधारित on the ट्रिपल entente of the संयुक्त किंगडम , फ़्रांस और रूस ) और the सेंट्रल शक्तियां  ( originally the Triple Alliance of Germany , Austria-Hungary and Italy ; but , as Austria–Hungary had taken the offensive against the agreement , Italy did not enter into the war ) .
These alliances were both  reorganised और विस्तारित as अधिक राष्ट्र  entered the war : Italy , Japan and the United States joined the Allies , and the Ottoman Empire and Bulgaria the Central Powers .
ultimately , अधिक than 70 लाख सैन्य कर्मियों  , including 60 million Europeans , were mobilised in one of the largest wars in history .
More  than 9 लाख combatants यहूद मारे , largely क्युकी of technological advancements कि led to विशाल increases  in the lethality of weapons without corresponding improvements in protection or mobility .
It was the fifth- deadliest conflict in world history , subsequently paving the way for various political changes , such as  revolutions  in many of the nations involved .
One of the long-term causes of the war was the resurgence of  साम्राज्यवाद in the विदेशी नीतियों of the  great powers of Europe .
More immediately , the assassination  of archduke फ्रांज फर्डिनेंड of ऑस्ट्रिया , the वारिस to the सिंहासन of austria-hungary , on 28 जून 1914  by Yugoslav nationalist Gavrilo Princip in Sarajevo triggered a diplomatic crisis when Austria-Hungary subsequently delivered an ultimatum to the Kingdom of Serbia .
अनेक alliances  formed over the previous decades were invoked .
Within weeks  , the प्रमुख शक्तियां यहूद at युद्ध और , via  their colonies , the conflict soon spread around the world .
On 28 July , the Austro-Hungarians  fired the पहला गोलियाँ of the युद्ध as तैयारी  for the invasion of Serbia .
While the Russians mobilised , the Germans  invaded न्यूट्रल बेल्जियम और ध्वज  on the way to France , providing a casus belli for Britain 's declaration of war against Germany .
बाद the जर्मनी  march on Paris was brought to a halt—the so-called Miracle of the Marne —the Western Front settled into a static battle of attrition with a trench line that changed little until 1917 .
On the  पूर्वी सामने , the रूसी फौज थी  successful against the Austro-Hungarians , but was stopped in its invasion of East Prussia by the Germans .
In November the Ottoman Empire joined the war , opening up fronts in the Caucasus ,  मेसोपोटामिया और the sinai .
Italy  और बुल्गारिया गई to युद्ध in 1915  and Romania in 1916 .
In Russia ,  the त्सार 's सरकारी collapsed in कूच 1917 और a subsequent  revolution in November brought the Russians to terms with the Central Powers .
After a 1918 German offensive along the western front , the Allies drove back  the germans in a श्रेणी of कामयाब offensives और अमरीकी शक्तियां began प्रवेश the trenches  .
Germany , which had its own  ट्रबल साथ क्रांतिकारियों  , agreed to an armistice on 11 November 1918 .
The war ended in victory for  the allies .
Events on the home fronts were as tumultuous as on the battle fronts , as the  भागीदार आजमाया to mobilize उनके जनशक्ति और आर्थिक संसाधन to लड़ो  a total war .
By the end of the war , four major imperial powers—the German  , रूसी , austro-hungarian और उस्मानी empires—ceased to मौजूद  .
The  successor राज्य of the पूर्व  two lost a great amount of territory , while the latter two were dismantled entirely .
The map of  सेंट्रल यूरोपीय  was redrawn into several smaller states .
The League of Nations was formed in the  आशा of preventing another ऐसे  conflict .
The European nationalism spawned by  the युद्ध और the ब्रेकअप of empires , the परखना  of Germany 's defeat and problems with the Treaty of Versailles are agreed to be factors contributing to World War II .
`` Girls Just Want to Have Fun '' is a 1979  सोंग originally लिखा by रॉबर्ट जोखिम और बना प्रसिद्ध by सिंगर  Cyndi Lauper .
It was the first major single released by Lauper as a solo  कलाकार और the lead-off सिंगल इससे उसके डेब्यू एल्बम  She 's So Unusual .
lauper’s संस्करण gained मान्यता  as a feminist anthem and promoted by an award-winning video .
It has been covered on either an album or in  सजीव कॉन्सर्ट by over 30 अन्य  artists .
The single was Lauper  's भेदन hit , reaching  # 2 on the Billboard Hot 100 and becoming a worldwide hit throughout late 1983 and early 1984 .
It remains one of  lauper 's हस्ताक्षर गीतों और थी  a widely popular song during the era of its release , the 1980s .
The `` Rolling Stone & MTV : '100 Greatest  पॉप गीतों ' : 1-50 '' , `` रोलिंग स्टोन : `` the 100 शीर्ष म्यूज़िक वीडियो '' '' और the `` vh1 : 100 महानतम वीडियो '' सूचियाँ क्रमित  the song at # 22 , # 39 and # 45 , respectively .
The song received a Grammy Award nomination for Record of the Year and Best Female Pop  गायन प्रदर्शन  .
View of defibrillator electrode  स्थिति और अवस्थिति  .
Defibrillation is a common treatment for life-threatening cardiac  dysrhythmias , ventricular fibrillation , और pulseless ventricular  tachycardia .
Defibrillation consists of delivering a therapeutic dose of electrical energy to the  प्रभावित दिल साथ a यंत्र पुकारा a defibrillator  .
This depolarizes a critical mass  of the दिल मांसपेशी , terminates the dysrhythmia , और allows सामान्य sinus लय to be reestablished  by the body 's natural pacemaker , in the sinoatrial node of the heart .
defibrillators can be बाह्य ,  transvenous , or implanted , depending on the type of device used or needed .
Some external units , known as automated external defibrillators (  aeds ) , automate the निदान of treatable लय , अर्थ कि lay responders or bystanders  are able to use them successfully with little , or in some cases no training at all .
The Cato Institute is an American libertarian  सोचो टैंक headquartered in वॉशिंगटन ,  D.C .
It was founded as the Charles Koch Foundation in 1974 by Murray  rothbard , ed क्रेन और चार्ल्स  Koch , chairman of the board and chief executive officer of the conglomerate Koch Industries , Inc. .
In  जुलाई 1976 , the नाम  was changed to the Cato Institute .
According to the 2011 Global Go To Think Tank Index , Cato is the 6th most influential US based think tank ,  रैंकिंग 3rd in आर्थिक नीति और 2nd in सोशल नीति  .
The Institute 's stated mission is `` to increase the  समझना of पब्लिक नीतियों आधारित on the सिद्धान्त  of limited government , free markets , individual liberty , and peace .
The Institute will  उपयोग the सबसे प्रभावी अर्थात् to originate , एडवोकेट , प्रचार , और  disseminate applicable policy proposals that create free , open , and civil societies in the United States and throughout the world . ''
Cato  विद्वानों यहूद नाजुक of जार्ज W. बुश 's रिपब्लिकन प्रशासन ( 2001–2009 ) on अनेक मुद्दे , सहित  the Iraq War , civil liberties , education , agriculture , energy policy , and excessive government spending .
On other issues , they supported Bush administration  पहलों , सबसे notably स्वास्थ्य परवाह , सोशल सुरक्षा , वैश्विक वार्मिंग ,  tax policy , and immigration .
During the  2008 u.S. अध्यक्षीय चुनाव , केटो  scholars criticized both major-party candidates , John McCain and Barack Obama .
Cato has criticized President Obama 's stances on policy issues since his inauguration , such as fiscal stimulus , healthcare reform , foreign policy , and the War on  दवाएँ , जबकि supporting उसके stance on the repeal of do n't पूछो , do n't बताना और  liberal immigration policy .
Dracula is an  1897 गोथिक हॉरर अनोखा  by Irish author Bram Stoker .
Famous for introducing the character of the vampire Count Dracula , the novel tells the story of Dracula 's attempt to relocate from  transylvania to इंग्लैण्ड , और the बैटल between ड्रैकुला और a छोटी समूह of मेन  and women led by Professor Abraham Van Helsing .
Dracula has been assigned to many  साहित्यिक जाति सहित पिशाच साहित्य , हॉरर  fiction , the gothic novel and invasion literature .
The novel touches on themes such as  the भूमिका of महिलाओं in विक्टोरियन संस्कृति , यौन  conventions , immigration , colonialism , and post-colonialism .
Although Stoker did not invent the vampire , he defined its modern  रूप , और the अनोखा रै शाखित numerous नाट्य  , film and television interpretations .
Quidditch is a  प्रतिस्पर्धी खेल in the wizarding संसार of the हैरी कुम्हार  universe , and is from the series of children 's novels and movies .
It is an extremely  अशिष्ट लकिन बहुत लोकप्रिय semi-contact खेल ,  played by wizards and witches .
Matches are played  between दो टीमों of सात खिलाड़ी सवारी  flying broomsticks , using four balls and six elevated ring-shaped goals , three on each side of the Quidditch pitch ( field ) .
In the Harry Potter universe ,  quidditch holds a fervent following समान to the स्थिति कि संघ  football holds as a globally popular sport .
The sport is monumental  throughout the wizarding संसार  .
Harry plays an important position for his house team  at हॉग्वार्ट्स : he is the seeker  and becomes the captain in his sixth year there .
Regional and international competitions are mentioned  throughout the श्रेणी  .
In Goblet of Fire , Quidditch at  हॉग्वार्ट्स is रद्द लिये the tri-wizard टूर्नामेंट , लकिन  Harry and the Weasleys attend the Quidditch World Cup .
In addition , Harry uses his  quidditch कौशल to कैप्चर a सुनहरी अंडा इससे a ड्रैगन पुकारा the हंगेरियाई horntail ( in the पहला कार्य of the tri-wizard टूर्नामेंट ) , to कैप्चर a उड़ती कुंजी in पारस 's स्टोन , और on दो कुंजी  occasions in Deathly Hallows — getting hold of Ravenclaw 's Diadem , and during the final fight with Voldemort — the `` unerring skill of the Seeker '' is useful to him in snatching the Elder Wand out of the air .
Harry Potter has owned two broomsticks , the Nimbus 2000 and the  firebolt , दोनो of जिससे हैं नष्ट  by the series ' end .
The game has been  अपनाया in the रियल संसार in the रूप  of Muggle Quidditch .
The United States Congress is the bicameral legislature of the federal government of the United States consisting of two houses : the lower house known as the  हाउस of प्रतिनिधि और the अपर हाउस ज्ञात as the  Senate .
Congress meets in the  कैपिटल in वॉशिंगटन  , D.C .
Both  प्रतिनिधि और सीनेटरों  are chosen through direct election .
Congress has a total of 535 voting members : 435 members in the House of  प्रतिनिधि और 100 सदस्यों in the सीनेट  .
सदस्यों of the हाउस of प्रतिनिधि  serve two-year terms representing the people of a district .
Congressional districts are apportioned to  राज्य by जनसांख्यिकी using the संयुक्त राज्य जनसांख्यिकी परिणाम , प्रत्येक राज्य in the  union having at least one representative in the House of Representatives .
Regardless of population , each of the 50 states has two senators  ; the 100 सीनेटरों प्रत्येक  serve a six-year term .
The terms are staggered so every two years approximately  one-third of the सीनेट is up लिये चुनाव  .
प्रत्येक लड़खड़ाते समूह  of one-third of the senators are called 'classes ' .
No  राज्य of the संयुक्त राज्य रै  two senators from the same class .
सबसे incumbents तलाश re-election , और उनके ऐतिहासिक  likelihood of winning subsequent elections exceeds 90 percent .
In August 2012 , a Gallup poll reported that Congress’s  स्वीकृति दरजा amongst अमेरिकी थी at 10 % , मिलान a 38-year कम  reached in November 2011 .
`` A Little More Country Than That '' is the title of a song written by Joey + Rory 's Rory Lee Feek , Wynn Varble , and Don  poythress , और अंकित by अमरीकी देश कलाकार ईस्टन  Corbin .
It was released in August 2009 as Corbin 's debut  सिंगल और is शामिल on उसके self-titled डेब्यू  album .
In April  2010 , the सोंग पहुँचे क्रमांक एक on the देश म्यूज़िक चार्ट  , making Corbin the first male solo artist in seven years to send a debut single to Number One .
It has been  certified सुनहरा by  the RIAA .
The BlackBerry is a line of wireless handheld  डिवाइस और सेवाएं designed और marketed  by Research In Motion Limited ( RIM ) operating as BlackBerry .
The first BlackBerry device , an email pager , was released  in 1999 ; the सबसे हाल ब्लैकबेरी डिवाइस , the z10 और q10 , यहूद  announced on January 30 , 2013 .
The user interface varies by model ; most  विशेषता a शारीरिक क्वर्टी कुंजीपटल  , while newer generations have relied on a multi-touch screen and virtual keyboard .
A BlackBerry can shoot video , take photos , play music , and  perform ऑनलाइन कृत्यों  such as web-browsing and emailing .
They can also send and receive push email  और तत्काल संदेश जबकि maintaining a ऊँची स्तर of सुरक्षा through on-device संदेश  encryption , and are designed to function as personal digital assistants .
BlackBerry devices support a large variety of instant messaging  सुविधाएँ , साथ the सबसे लोकप्रिय होने the मालिकाना  BlackBerry Messenger service .
the ब्लैकबेरी playbook  is a tablet computer offered by the company .
The 100 millionth BlackBerry smartphone was shipped in June quarter  of 2010 और the 200 millionth  smartphone was shipped in September quarter of 2012 .
BlackBerry accounts for 3 % of mobile device sales worldwide in 2011 , making its manufacturer the sixth most popular device  मेकर ( 25 % of मोबाईल यंत्र बिक्री हैं स्मार्टफ़ोन  ) .
The consumer BlackBerry Internet  सेवा is उपलब्धियाँ in 91 देशों विश्वव्यापी on over 500  mobile service operators using various mobile technologies .
As  of सितंबर 2012 , वहीँ  were eighty million subscribers worldwide to BlackBerry .
In 2011 the Caribbean and Latin America had the highest penetrations of BlackBerry  स्मार्टफ़ोन विश्वव्यापी , साथ up to परिचय 45 प्रति cent in the प्रदेश  having a RIM device .
BlackBerry , iPhone ,  एंड्रॉइड , और खिड़कियाँ फोन  are considered the four major smartphone brands .
BlackBerry is widely referred to as ``  crackberry '' in the संयुक्त राज्य , जिससे alludes  to its excessive use by its owners and is a reference to the addictiveness of crack cocaine .
Use of the term CrackBerry became so widespread that in November 2006  वेबस्टर 's नई संसार कॉलेज शब्दकोष नामित  `` crackberry '' the `` New Word of the Year . ''
An example of a  माँग वक्र shifting  .
The shift from D1 To D2 means an increase in  माँग साथ consequences  for the other variables
In economics , the demand curve is the graph  depicting the संबंध between the दाम of a निश्चित कमोडिटी और  the amount of it that consumers are willing and able to purchase at that given price .
It is a  ग्राफिक प्रतिनिधित्व  of a demand schedule .
the माँग वक्र लिये सब उपभोक्ता साथ फ़ॉलो  from the demand curve of every individual consumer : the individual demands at each price are added together .
Demand curves are used to estimate behaviors in competitive markets , and are often combined with supply curves to estimate the equilibrium price ( the price at which sellers together are willing to sell the same amount as buyers together are willing to buy , also known as market clearing price ) and the  संतुलन मात्रा ( the राशि of कि शुभ or सेवा कि होगा be उत्पादित और खरीदा बगैर surplus/excess सप्लाई or shortage/excess माँग ) of कि मार्केट  .
In a monopolistic market , the demand curve facing  the monopolist is  simply the market demand curve .
historia
by nikolaos  Gysis ( 1892 )
History ( from  यूनानी - historia , अर्थ `` पूछताछ , ज्ञान acquired  by investigation '' ) is an umbrella term that relates to past events as well as the discovery , collection , organization , and presentation of information about these events .
The term  शामिल लौकिक , भूगर्भिक , और सशुल्क  history , but is often generically implied to mean human history .
विद्वानों जो लिखें परिचय  history are called historians .
History can also refer to the academic discipline which uses a  कथा to जाँचें और analyse a अनुक्रम of पास्ट कार्यक्रम , और objectively  determine the patterns of cause and effect that determine them .
Historians sometimes debate the nature of history and its usefulness by discussing the study of the discipline as an end in  itself और as a रास्ता of providing ``  perspective '' on the problems of the present .
Stories common to a particular culture , but not supported by external sources ( such as the tales surrounding King Arthur ) are usually classified as cultural heritage or legends , because they  do नहीं support the `` disinterested छानबीन '' जरूरी of the अनुशासन of इतिहास  .
Events  occurring prior to लिखा रिकार्ड  are considered prehistory .
Herodotus , a 5th century B.C . Greek historian is  माना भीतर the पश्चिमी परंपरा to be the `` पिता of इतिहास '' , और , साथ साथ  his contemporary Thucydides , helped form the foundations for the modern study of human history .
Their work continues to be read today and the divide between the  culture-focused हिरोडोटस और the military-focused thucydides remains a पाइंट of contention  or approach in modern historical writing .
In the Eastern tradition , a state chronicle the Spring and  पतझड़ annals थी ज्ञात to be compiled इससे as जल्दी as  722 BCE although only 2nd century BCE texts survived .
Ancient influences have helped spawn variant interpretations of the nature  of इतिहास जिससे have विकसित over the सदियां और continue to बदलें  today .
The modern study of history is wide-ranging , and includes the study  of विशिष्ट regions और the पढ़ाई of निश्चित topical or thematical तत्व  of historical investigation .
Often history  is सिखाया as भाग of प्राथमिक और द्वितीयक शिक्षा  , and the academic study of history is a major discipline in University studies .
Malcolm X ( ; May 19 , 1925February 21 , 1965 ) , born Malcolm Little and also known as El-Hajj Malik El-Shabazz ( ) , was an African-American Muslim  मंत्री और इंसान अधिकारों activist  .
To his admirers , he  थी a साहसी एडवोकेट लिये the अधिकारों  of blacks , a man who indicted white America in the harshest terms for its crimes against black Americans .
Detractors accused him of preaching racism , black  सर्वोच्चता , और  violence .
He has been called one of the greatest  और सबसे influential अफ़्रीकी अमेरिकी  in history .
Malcolm X 's  पिता died—killed by श्वेत supremacists , it थी rumored—when  he was young , and at least one of his uncles was lynched .
When he was 13 , his mother was placed in a  दिमागी हॉस्पिटल , और he थी लगाई in  a series of foster homes .
In 1946 , at  आयु 20 , he गई to थाना लिये तोड़कर  and entering .
In prison  , मैल्कम x became a सदस्य of the स्वदेश  of Islam ; after his parole in 1952 , he quickly rose to become one of its leaders .
For a dozen years , Malcolm X was the public face of the  विवादास्पद समूह , लकिन मोहभंग साथ स्वदेश  of Islam head Elijah Muhammad led him to leave the Nation in March 1964 .
बाद a काल of सफर in अफ़्रीकी और the मध्य ईस्ट , he लौटे  to the United States , where he founded Muslim Mosque , Inc. and the Organization of Afro-American Unity .
in फ़रवरी 1965 , कम than a  year after leaving the Nation of Islam , he was assassinated by three members of the group .
Malcolm X 's expressed  मान्यताओं बदला substantially  over time .
As a spokesman for the Nation of Islam he taught black supremacy and advocated separation  of ब्लैक और श्वेत अमेरिकी —in कंट्रास्ट  to the civil rights movement 's emphasis on integration .
After breaking with the Nation of Islam in 1964—saying of his association  साथ it , `` i किया अनेक बाते as a [ ब्लैक ] मुस्लिम कि i 'm sorry  for now .
I was a zombie then ... pointed in a certain  दिशा और बताई to कूच '' —and बनने a सुन्नी मुस्लिम , he disavowed जातिवाद और expressed willingness  to work with civil rights leaders , he continued to emphasize Pan-Africanism , black self-determination , and self-defense .
हेनरी merritt `` हांक '' paulson , jr. ( born कूच 28 , 1946 ) is an  American banker who served as the 74th United States Secretary of the Treasury .
He had served as the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Goldman Sachs , and is now chairman of the Paulson Institute , which he founded in 2011 to  प्रचार चिरस्थायी आर्थिक विकास और a क्लीनर पर्यावरण around the संसार  , with an initial focus on the United States and China .
A virtual machine ( VM )  is a तन्त्र implemented abstraction  of the underlying hardware , which is presented to the application layer of the system .
Virtual machines may be based on specifications  of a काल्पनिक कंप्यूटर or emulate the कंप्यूटर वास्तुकला और कृत्यों of a रियल  world computer .
Spiders ( order Araneae ) are air-breathing arthropods  कि have आठ टाँगे  and chelicerae with fangs that inject venom .
They are the largest order of  arachnids और रैंक सातवाँ in कुल  species diversity among all other groups of organisms .
Spiders are found worldwide on every  महाद्वीप मगर लिये अंटार्कटिक , और have  become established in nearly every habitat with the exception of air and sea colonization .
As of 2008 ,  at तनिक 43,678 मकड़ी प्रजाति , और 109 परिवारों have महरूम  recorded by taxonomists ; however , there has been confusion within the scientific community as to how all these families should be classified , as evidenced by the over 20 different classifications that have been proposed since 1900 .
Anatomically , spiders differ from other arthropods in that the usual body  खण्ड हैं fused into दो tagmata , the cephalothorax  and abdomen , and joined by a small , cylindrical pedicel .
Unlike insects , spiders  do नहीं have antennae  .
In all except the most primitive group , the Mesothelae , spiders have the most  centralized बेचैन प्रणालियों of सब arthropods , as सब उनके  ganglia are fused into one mass in the cephalothorax .
Unlike most arthropods , spiders have no extensor muscles in their limbs and instead extend  उन्हें by हाइड्रोलिक दबाव  .
Their abdomens bear appendages that have been modified into  spinnerets कि extrude रेशा इससे up to  six types of silk glands within their abdomen .
Spider webs vary widely  in आकार , आकार और  the amount of sticky thread used .
It now appears that the spiral orb web may be one of the earliest forms ,  और मकड़ियों कि उपज उलझे cobwebs हैं अधिक  abundant and diverse than orb-web spiders .
Spider-like  arachnids साथ silk-producing spigots  appeared in the Devonian period about , but these animals apparently lacked spinnerets .
True spiders have been found in Carboniferous rocks from ,  और हैं बहुत समान to the सबसे आदिम  surviving order , the Mesothelae .
The main groups of modern spiders ,  mygalomorphae और araneomorphae , पहला  appeared in the Triassic period , before .
A herbivorous species , Bagheera kiplingi , was described in 2008 , but all other known species are predators , mostly preying on insects and on other  मकड़ियों , हालांकि a few विशाल प्रजाति भी लो पक्षियों और lizards .
Spiders use a wide range of strategies to capture prey :  trapping it in स्टिकी webs , lassoing it साथ स्टिकी bolas , mimicking the शिकार  to avoid detection , or running it down .
Most detect prey mainly by sensing vibrations , but the active  hunters have अधि दृष्टि , और hunters of the genus portia दिखाएँ लक्षण of प्रज्ञा in उनके  choice of tactics and ability to develop new ones .
Spiders ' guts are too narrow to take solids , and they liquidize  उनके खाना by बाढ़ it साथ digestive एंजाइमों और पीस it साथ the bases  of their pedipalps , as they do not have true jaws .
Male spiders identify themselves by a variety of  जटिल प्रेमालाप संस्कार to avoid होने  eaten by the females .
Males of most species survive a few  matings , सीमित मुख्यतः by उनके  short life spans .
Females weave silk egg-cases , each  of जिससे may contain सैंकड़ों  of eggs .
Females of many  प्रजाति परवाह लिये उनके  young , for example by carrying them around or by sharing food with them .
A minority of species are social , building communal webs  कि may हाउस anywhere इससे a few  to 50,000 individuals .
Social behavior ranges from precarious toleration , as in the widow spiders , to  co-operative शिकार  and food-sharing .
Although  सबसे मकड़ियों सजीव लिये at सबसे दो सालो  , tarantulas and other mygalomorph spiders can live up to 25 years in captivity .
While the venom of a few species is  खतरनाक to इंसानो , वैज्ञानिकों हैं अभी  researching the use of spider venom in medicine and as non-polluting pesticides .
Spider silk provides a combination of lightness , strength and elasticity that is superior to that of synthetic  सामग्री , और मकड़ी रेशा जीनों have महरूम inserted into स्तनधारियों और पौधे to  see if these can be used as silk factories .
As a result of their wide range of behaviors , spiders have become common  प्रतीकों in आर्ट और mythology symbolizing विभिन्न combinations  of patience , cruelty and creative powers .
Donna Marie Pinciotti ( Born February 13 , 1960 ) is a fictional character and  एक of the दो मादा लीड in the फॉक्स sitcom कि '70s दिखाएँ  , appearing in all eight seasons .
Portrayed by Laura Prepon , Donna  is the प्रेम ब्याज to eric forman  .
US  काउंटी household  median income 2009 .
Median  us household  income , 2001-2011
Household income is a measure commonly used by the United  राज्य सरकारी और निजी संस्थानों  .
Each  household is measured by the  income of every resident over the age of 15 .
Income  शामिल मजदूरी और salaries , बेरोजगारी बीमे , विकलांगता भुगतान , चाइल्ड support  payments received , regular rental receipts , as well as any personal business , investment , or other kinds of income received routinely .
While  inflation-adjusted ( `` रियल '' ) household आय था महरूम increasing लगभग  every year from 1945 to 1999 , it has since been flat and even decreased recently .
U.S. median  household आय गिरी इससे $ 51,144 in 2010 to $  50,502 in 2011 .
Extreme poverty in the United States , meaning households living on less than $ 2 per day before government benefits , doubled  इससे 1996 to 1.5 लाख households in 2011 , सहित 2.8  million children .
The residents of the  household do नहीं have to be सम्बन्धित to the सिर of the  household for their earnings to be considered part of the household 's income .
As households tend to share a similar economic  कॉन्टेक्स्ट , the उपयोग of household  income remains among the most widely accepted measures of income .
That the size of a household is not commonly taken into account in such measures may distort any analysis of fluctuations  भीतर or among the household आय श्रेणी , और may रेंडर सीधा comparisons between  quintiles difficult or even impossible .
a पंजीकृत एजेंट , भी ज्ञात as a निवासी एजेंट or statutory एजेंट , in संयुक्त राज्य कारोबार विधि  , is a business or individual designated to receive service of process ( SOP ) when a business entity is a party in a legal action such as a lawsuit or summons .
The  पंजीकृत एजेंट 's पता may  also be where the state will send the paperwork for the yearly renewal of the business entity 's charter .
The registered agent for a business entity may be an individual member of the company , or ( more  प्रायः ) a तीसरा पार्टी , ऐसे as the संगठन 's  lawyer or a service company .
Failure to  properly maintain a पंजीकृत एजेंट can affect  a company negatively .
दफ्तर लिये आपात  Management .
दफ्तर of युद्ध  Information war poster 1941 - 1945
`` Life , Liberty , and the pursuit of Happiness '' is a well-known phrase in the United States  घोषणा of स्वतंत्रता  .
The phrase is meant to exemplify the `` unalienable rights ''  साथ जिससे सब इंसान beings हैं endowed by उनके निर्माता  for their protection of which they institute governments .
Fencing , is typically  विभाजित into ओलम्पिक तलवारबाजी , शास्त्रीय  fencing and historical fencing , .
The  खेल of तलवारबाजी ( commonly  called olympic fencing or competitive fencing ) is divided into three weapon categories : foil , sabre and épée .
Classical fencing uses the  वही तीन हथियार , लकिन  approaches fencing as a martial art .
Competitive Fencing is one of  पाँच खेल जिससे रै महरूम प्रदर्शित at प्रत्येक एक of the आधुनिक ओलम्पिक खेल , the अन्य चार  being Athletics , Cycling , Swimming , and Gymnastics .
The quadriceps femoris ( Latin for `` four-headed muscle of the femur `` ) , also called simply the quadriceps , quadriceps extensor , quads , is a large  मांसपेशी समूह कि शामिल the चार प्रचलित  muscles on the front of the thigh .
It is  the ग्रेट extensor मांसपेशी of  the knee , forming a large fleshy mass which covers the front and sides of the femur .
the उचित लैटिन बहुवचन  form of the adjective quadriceps would be quadricipites .
In modern English  उपयोग , quadriceps is प्रयुक्त in दोनो एकवचन  and plural .
The  एकवचन रूप quadricep  , produced by hypercorrection , is frequently used .
RMS Titanic was a  अंग्रेजों यात्री लाइनर कि sank in the उत्तर अटलांटिक समंदर on  15 April 1912 after colliding with an iceberg during her maiden voyage from Southampton , UK to New York City , US .
The sinking of Titanic caused the deaths of 1,502  लोगों in एक of the deadliest peacetime मेरीटाइम आपदाओं  in modern history .
The RMS Titanic was the largest ship afloat at the  समय of उसके maiden  voyage .
She  थी the दूसरी of तीन ओलम्पिक क्लास समंदर liners संचालित by the श्वेत स्टार लकीर , और वो थी निर्मित  by the Harland and Wolff shipyard in Belfast with Thomas Andrews , who perished with the ship , as her naval architect .
On her maiden voyage ,  वो carried 2,224  passengers and crew .
Under the command of Edward  स्मिथ , उसके यात्री शामिल कुछ of the wealthiest लोगों in the संसार , as खूब as सैंकड़ों  of emigrants from Great Britain and Ireland , Scandinavia and elsewhere throughout Europe seeking a new life in North America .
The ship was designed to be  the पिछला शब्द in सुकून और लक्ज़री , साथ an on-board gymnasium  , swimming pool , libraries , high-class restaurants and opulent cabins .
She also had a powerful wireless telegraph provided  लिये the convenience of यात्री as खूब as  for operational use .
Though she had advanced safety features such as watertight compartments and remotely activated  watertight द्वार , वो lacked पर्याप्त lifeboats to  accommodate all of those aboard .
Because of outdated  मेरीटाइम सुरक्षा regulations , वो carried तभी पर्याप्त lifeboats  for 1,178 people—slightly more than half of the number travelling on the maiden voyage , and one-third her total passenger and crew capacity .
After leaving Southampton on 10  अप्रैल 1912 , टाइटैनिक पुकारा  at Cherbourg in France and Queenstown ( now Cobh ) in Ireland before heading westwards towards New York .
On 14 April 1912 , four days into the crossing and about 375 miles  ( 600 km ) दक्षिण of न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड , वो hit an हिमशैल  at 11:40 pm ship 's time .
The glancing collision  caused titanics हल प्लेटों to बकल inwards साथ उसके स्टारबोर्ड पक्ष और खोली पाँच of उसके सोलह  watertight compartments to the sea ; the ship gradually filled with water .
Meanwhile , passengers and some crew members were evacuated in lifeboats ,  अनेक of जिससे यहूद शुभारम्भ तभी partly  loaded .
A  अनुपातहीन क्रमांक of मेन यहूद बाएँ सवार  because of a `` women and children first `` protocol followed by some of the officers loading the lifeboats .
By 2:20 AM , she broke apart and  foundered , साथ खूब over  one thousand people still aboard .
Just under two hours after the Titanic foundered , the  cunard लाइनर rms carpathia arrived on the  scene of the sinking , where she brought aboard an estimated 705 survivors .
The  विपत्ति थी greeted साथ विश्वव्यापी शॉक और आक्रोश at the विशाल  loss of life and the regulatory and operational failures that had led to it .
Public inquiries in Britain and the United States led to major improvements  in मेरीटाइम सुरक्षा  .
One of their most important legacies was the establishment in 1914 of the International Convention for the Safety of Life at  समुद्र ( solas ) , जिससे स्टिल governs मेरीटाइम  safety today .
Additionally , several new wireless regulations  यहूद passed around the संसार in an प्रयत्न to सीख इससे the अनेक missteps in बेतार संचार --  -which could have saved many more passengers .
Many of the survivors lost  सब of उनके धन और possessions और यहूद बाएँ  destitute ; many families , particularly those of crew members from Southampton , lost their primary bread-winners .
They were helped by an outpouring of  पब्लिक सहानुभूति और charitable  donations .
Some of the male survivors were accused of cowardice for leaving the ship while people were still on board ; the White  स्टार लकीर 's अध्यक्ष , J. ब्रूस ismay , faced  social ostracism for the rest of his life .
The wreck  of the टाइटैनिक remains on the समुद्रतल  , split in two and gradually disintegrating at a depth of .
चूंकि इसके डिस्कवरी in 1985 , हज़ारों  of artefacts have been recovered and put on display at museums around the world .
टाइटैनिक रै become एक of the सबसे प्रसिद्ध जहाजों in  history , her memory kept alive by numerous books , folk songs , films , exhibits , and memorials .
The human leg is the  संपूर्ण निम्नतर extremity or limb of the इंसान देह , सहित the पैर , जांघ और भी the हिप or gluteal प्रदेश ;  however , the precise definition in human anatomy refers only to the section of the lower limb extending from the knee to the ankle .
Legs are used for standing ,  चलना , कूद , कार्यशील , kicking , और समान क्रियाएँ  , and constitute a significant portion of a person 's mass .
This article is about the demographic features of the population of Turkey , including  जनसांख्यिकी घनत्व , नस्ल , शिक्षा स्तर , स्वास्थ्य of the populace , आर्थिक  status , religious affiliations and other aspects of the population .
As of 2010 , the population of Turkey is estimated  to be 73.7 लाख साथ a विकास रेट  of 1.21 % per annum ( 2009 figure ) .
The  जनसांख्यिकी is अपेक्षाकृत यंग साथ 26.6 %  falling in the 0-14 age bracket .
According to the OECD/World Bank population statistics in Turkey the  जनसांख्यिकी विकास इससे 1990 to 2008 थी  16 million or 29 % .
1998 bmw 750il
बुइक  Roadmaster
A  full-size car is a विपणन पद प्रयुक्त in उत्तर  America for an automobile larger than a mid-size car .
In the United States , the EPA uses  the पद `` विशाल car '' to denote full-size गाड़ियाँ  .
Joel Grey  ( born अप्रैल 11 , 1932 ) is an  American stage and screen actor , singer , and dancer , known for his role as the Master of Ceremonies in both the stage and film adaptation of the Kander & Ebb musical Cabaret .
He has won the Academy Award , Tony  पुरस्कार और सुनहरी ग्लोब  Award .
He also originated the role of George  M. cohan in the musical  George M !
in  1973 , the जादूगर in  the musical Wicked .
Grey also starred in the Broadway revivals of Anything Goes as Moonface  मार्टिन , और शिकागो as अमोस हार्ट  .
James  मैडिसन , jr. ( कूच 16 , 1751 ( o.s . कूच  5 ) – June 28 , 1836 ) was an American statesman and political theorist , the fourth President of the United States ( 1809–1817 ) .
He is hailed as the “Father of the Constitution” for being instrumental in the  drafting of the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान और as  the key champion and author of the United States Bill of Rights .
He served  as a राजनेता much  of his adult life .
After the constitution had been drafted , Madison became  एक of the नेताओ in the  movement to ratify it .
His  सहयोग साथ सिकंदर हैमिल्टन और  John Jay produced the Federalist Papers ( 1788 ) .
Circulated only in New York at the time , they  होता बाद be माना among the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण polemics in support  of the Constitution .
He was also a delegate to the Virginia constitutional ratifying convention ,  और थी इंस्ट्रूमेंटल to the कामयाब अनुसमर्थन  effort in Virginia .
Like most of his contemporaries ,  मैडिसन बदला उसके  political views during his life .
During the drafting and ratification of the constitution , he  favored a दमदार नेशनल सरकारी , हालांकि बाद he grew to एहसान stronger राज्य  governments , before settling between the two extremes late in his life .
In 1789 , Madison became a leader in the  नई हाउस of प्रतिनिधि , drafting  many basic laws .
He is notable for drafting the first ten amendments to the Constitution , and thus is known as the `` Father of the  विधेयक of अधिकारों `` .
Madison worked  closely साथ अध्यक्ष जार्ज  Washington to organize the new federal government .
तोड़कर साथ हैमिल्टन और कया became the federalist पार्टी in 1791 ,  Madison and Thomas Jefferson organized what they called the Republican Party ( later called by historians the Democratic-Republican Party )
As Jefferson’s Secretary of State ( 1801–1809 ) , Madison supervised the Louisiana Purchase  , जिससे doubled the nation’s  size .
After his election to the presidency , he presided  over नवीनीकृत समृद्धि लिये अनेक सालो  .
As president (  1809–17 ) , बाद the  failure of diplomatic protests and a trade embargo against Great Britain , he led the nation into the War of 1812 .
He was responding to  अंग्रेजों encroachments on अमरीकी सम्मान और अधिकारों ; in जोड  , he wanted to end the influence of the British among their Indian allies , whose resistance blocked United States settlement in the Midwest around the Great Lakes .
Madison found the war to be an  प्रशासनिक दुःस्वप्न , as the संयुक्त राज्य था neither a दमदार  army nor financial system ; as a result , he afterward supported a stronger national government and a strong military , as well as the national bank , which he had long opposed .
Like other Virginia statesmen in the slave  समाज , he थी a slaveholder जो inherited उसके वृक्षारोपण ज्ञात  as Montpelier , and owned hundreds of slaves during his lifetime to cultivate tobacco and other crops .
Madison supported the three-fifths compromise  कि अनुमत three-fifths of the enumerated  population of slaves to be counted for representation .
`` Roman 's Revenge '' is a song performed by American rapper Nicki Minaj from her  डेब्यू स्टुडियो एल्बम गुलाबी शुक्रवार  .
It was written by Minaj and rapper Eminem ,  जो is भी प्रदर्शित in the सोंग , और  was produced by Swizz Beatz .
It was released  exclusively on अक्तूबर 30 , 2010 through  the US iTunes Store , as a promotional release preceding the album 's release .
The song initiated a feud between Lil ' Kim and Minaj , where many people felt the song was directed at Lil ' Kim and  regarded around उसके जज्बात towards minaj  's rise to fame .
The song references Minaj 's  alter-ego , रोमन zolanski , और  Eminem 's alter-ego , Slim Shady .
The song garnered very positive reviews from critics ,  सबसे of जिससे praised the  song as a stand-out track on the album .
An official  रिमिक्स featuring minaj 's mentor , लील वेन  , was released to the US iTunes Store on January 19 , 2011 .
The instrumental was used in the song 'Firing  स्क्वाड ' by नाल  G.A.N.G .
Hydraulic  द्रव होने poured  .
Hydraulic fluids ,  भी पुकारा हाइड्रोलिक liquids ,  are the medium by which power is transferred in hydraulic machinery .
Common  हाइड्रोलिक fluids हैं आधारित  on mineral oil or water .
Examples of equipment that might use hydraulic fluids include excavators and backhoes , hydraulic brakes , power steering systems , transmissions , garbage trucks ,  वायुयान उड़ान कंट्रोल प्रणालियों , lifts ,  and industrial machinery .
Hydraulic systems like the  ones उल्लेखित ऊपर होगा कार्य सबसे efficiently if  the hydraulic fluid used has no compressibility
महिंद्रा ट्रैक्टर
Mahindra Tractors , the farm equipment division of  महिंद्रा & महिंद्रा , builds और स्त्रोत tractors कि  are sold worldwide across six continents .
Mahindra is also  among the शीर्ष तीन ट्रैक्टर निर्माताओं  in the world .
Mahindra has a huge consumer base in India , China and  अमेरिका और a growing आधार in  Australia .
The company builds more tractors in India than any other  निर्माता , और रै the क्षमता to निर्माण 150,000 tractors  a year .
In 1963 , M & M formed a joint venture with  अंतरराष्ट्रीय harvester to manufacture tractors carrying the महिंद्रा  nameplate for the Indian market .
Armed with engineering , tooling and manufacturing know-how gained from  इस संबंध , m & m विकसित  its first tractor , the B-275 .
Mahindra Tractors with sales of nearly 85,000 units  annually is एक of the largest ट्रैक्टर कंपनियाँ  in the world , and is number one in sales in India - the largest tractor market in the world .
To expand into the  growing ट्रैक्टर मार्केट in चीन ,  Mahindra acquired majority stake in Jiangling .
To raise awareness about Mahindra in the US , Mahindra USA  घोषित इसके नई प्रायोजन in the nascar देशभर श्रेणी साथ r3 मोटरस्पोर्ट , जिससे is participating  with a # 23 Mahindra Tractors Chevrolet .
The car will be driven by Robert Richardson , Jr.  महिंद्रा यूएसए , inc. घोषित a 17-race प्राथमिक और 18-race संबद्ध  sponsorship for the 2009 NASCAR Nationwide Series .
With this sponsorship , Mahindra was  the पहला भारतीय कम्पनी  to sponsor a car in NASCAR .
In 2008 , Mahindra was a  प्रायोजक of the मैकडोनाल्ड मोटरस्पोर्ट टोली  which ran the # 81 car in the NASCAR Nationwide Series .
The POWER6 is a microprocessor developed by IBM  कि implemented the शक्ति  ISA v.2.03 .
When it  became उपलब्धियाँ in प्रणालियों  in 2007 , it succeeded the POWER5+ as IBM 's flagship Power microprocessor .
It is part of the eCLipz project , said to have a goal of  converging ibm 's सर्वर हार्डवेयर जहाँ व्यावहारिक ( hence  `` ipz '' in the acronym : iSeries , pSeries , and zSeries ) .
The American middle class is a social  क्लास in the संयुक्त राज्य  .
While the concept is typically ambiguous in popular opinion and common language use ,  समकालीन सोशल वैज्ञानिकों  have put forward several , more or less congruent , theories on the American middle class .
Depending on class model used , the middle class may constitute  anywhere इससे 25 % to 66 % of households  .
One of the first major  अध्ययन of the मध्य क्लास in अमेरिका  was White Collar : The American Middle Classes , published in 1951 by sociologist C. Wright Wright_Mills Mills Wright_Mills .
Later sociologists such as Dennis  गिल्बर्ट of हैमिल्टन कॉलेज commonly divide the  middle class into two sub-groups .
Constituting roughly 15 % to 20 % of households is the upper or professional middle class consisting of highly educated  , वेतनभोगी पेशेवर और प्रबंधक  .
constituting roughly एक तीसरा  of households is the lower middle class consisting mostly of semi-professionals , skilled craftsmen and lower-level management .
Middle-class persons commonly have a comfortable  मानक of जीना , significant आर्थिक सुरक्षा , considerable कार्य  autonomy and rely on their expertise to sustain themselves .
सदस्यों of the मध्य क्लास belong  to diverse groups which overlap with each other .
Overall , middle-class persons , especially  upper-middle-class individuals , हैं characterized by conceptualizing  , creating and consulting .
यूँ , कॉलेज शिक्षा is एक of  the main indicators of middle-class status .
Largely attributed to the nature of middle-class occupations , middle class  मान tend to emphasize स्वतंत्रता , adherence to मूलभूत  standards , valuing innovation and respecting non-conformity .
Politically more  क्रियाशील than अन्य जनसांख्यिकी , कॉलेज शिक्षित मध्य  class professionals are split between the two major parties .
Income varies considerably from near the national  मध्य to खूब in excess of $ 100,000  .
Household income figures , however , do not always reflect class status and standard of living , as they are largely influenced by  the क्रमांक of आय earners और असफल to recognize household  size .
It is therefore  संभावित लिये a विशाल , dual-earner , निम्नतर मध्य क्लास  household to out-earn a small , one-earner , upper middle class household .
The middle classes are very influential , as they  encompass the बहुमत of मतदाता , लेखक , शिक्षक , पत्रकारों  , and editors .
Most societal trends in the US originate  भीतर the मध्य वर्ग  .
The following is a list of  शनिवार रात्रि सजीव डाल सदस्यों  , past and present .
The cast  सदस्यों of शनिवार  Night Live were originally referred to as the `` Not Ready For Prime Time Players '' .
The original  डाल ( l to r ) : laraine न्युमैन , जॉन  Belushi , Jane Curtin , Gilda Radner , Dan Aykroyd , Garrett Morris , and Chevy Chase
Ruins from the 1906 San Francisco earthquake , remembered as one of the  worst प्राकृतिक आपदाओं in संयुक्त राज्य इतिहास
A disaster is a  प्राकृतिक or man-made ( or technological ) जोखिम resulting in an इवेंट of substantial  extent causing significant physical damage or destruction , loss of life , or drastic change to the environment .
A disaster can be ostensively defined as any tragic event stemming from events such as  भूकंप , floods , अनर्थकारी दुर्घटनाओं , फ़ायर  , or explosions .
It is a phenomenon that can cause damage to life and property and destroy the economic , social  और सांस्कृतिक  life of people .
In contemporary academia , disasters are seen as the  consequence of  inappropriately managed risk .
These risks are the product of  a संयोजन of  both hazard/s and vulnerability .
Hazards that strike in  क्षेत्रों साथ कम vulnerability होगा never become  disasters , as is the case in uninhabited regions .
Developing  देशों suffer the महानतम लागत जब a विपत्ति हिट्स – अधिक than 95 प्रतिशत of सब मौतों caused by आपदाओं  occur in developing countries , and losses due to natural disasters are 20 times greater ( as a percentage of GDP ) in developing countries than in industrialized countries .
In computing , booting ( also known as booting up ) is the initial set of operations that a  कंप्यूटर प्रणाली performs जब विद्युत शक्ति to the cpu is switched  on .
The process begins when a computer is turned on for the first time or is re-energized after being turned off , and  ends जब the कंप्यूटर is तैयार to perform इसके सामान्य परिचालन  .
On modern general purpose computers , this can take tens of seconds and typically involves performing a power-on self-test , locating and  initializing परिधीय डिवाइस , और तब ढूंढना , लदान और starting an ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली  .
Many  कंप्यूटर प्रणालियों भी allow ये  operations to be initiated by a software command without cycling power , in what is known as a soft reboot , though some of the initial operations might be skipped on a soft reboot .
A boot loader is a  कंप्यूटर कार्यक्रम कि loads the प्रमुख ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली or runtime पर्यावरण  for the computer after completion of the self-tests .
The computer term boot is short for bootstrap or  बूटस्ट्रैप लोड और गर्भाशयी इससे the phrase  to pull oneself up by one 's bootstraps .
The usage calls attention to the requirement that , if most software is loaded onto a computer by other software already running on  the कंप्यूटर , कुछ यांत्रिकी जरूर मौजूद to लोड आरंभिक तन्त्र onto  the computer .
जल्दी कंप्यूटर प्रयुक्त a किस्में of ad-hoc विधि  to get a small program into memory to solve this problem .
The invention of integrated circuit read-only memory ( ROM ) of various types solved this paradox by  allowing कंप्यूटर to be shipped साथ a प्रारंभ up कार्यक्रम  that could not be erased .
Growth in the capacity of ROM has  अनुमत कभी अधिक विस्तृत प्रारंभ  up procedures to be implemented .
On  सामान्य purpose कंप्यूटर , the बूट प्रक्रम begins  with the execution of an initial program stored in boot ROMs or read in another fashion .
In some older computers , the initial program might have been  the अनुप्रयोग to चलाएं , if no ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली थी प्रयुक्त  , or the operating system .
In other computers , the initial program is a boot loader that may then load into random-access memory ( RAM ) , from  nonvolatile द्वितीयक भंडार ( ऐसे as a मुश्किल डिस्क ड्राइव ) or , in कुछ पुरानी कंप्यूटर , इससे a मीडियम ऐसे as punched ताश , punched टेप , or चुम्बकीय  tape in older computers , the binary code of an operating system or runtime environment and then execute it .
If the boot loader is limited in its size and capabilities , it may , instead , load a larger and more capable secondary boot  लोडर , जिससे होता तब लोड the ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली or runtime  environment .
Some embedded systems do not require a noticeable boot  अनुक्रम to शुरू कामकाज और जब turned on may बस चलाएं operational  programs that are stored in ROM .
Firebird is an open source  एसक्यूएल रिलेशनल डेटाबेस प्रबन्धन प्रणाली कि  runs on Linux , Windows , and a variety of Unix .
The database forked from Borland 's open source  संस्करण of interbase in 2000 , लकिन  since Firebird 1.5 the code has been largely rewritten .
Outsourcing is the contracting out  of an आतंरिक कारोबार  process to a third-party organization .
The practice of contracting a business process  आउट to a तीसरा पार्टी बल्कि  than staffing it internally is common in the modern economy .
The term `` outsourcing '' became popular in  the संयुक्त राज्य निकट the फेरे  of the 21st century .
Outsourcing sometimes involves transferring employees and assets from one firm to another , but not  सदा  .
The  परिभाषा of आउटसोर्सिंग शामिल दोनो विदेशी और घरेलू contracting , और sometimes  includes offshoring , which means relocating a business function to another country .
वित्तीय बचत इससे निम्नतर अंतरराष्ट्रीय मजदूर  rates is a big motivation for outsourcing/offshoring .
The opposite of outsourcing is called insourcing , which entails bringing processes handled by  third-party firms in-house , और is sometimes संपन्नता  via vertical integration .
However , a business can provide a contract  सेवा to another कारोबार बगैर necessarily  insourcing that business process .
Human immunodeficiency virus (  hiv ) is a lentivirus ( धीरे replicating retrovirus ) कि कल्याणकारी acquired immunodeficiency  syndrome ( AIDS ) , a condition in humans in which progressive failure of the immune system allows life-threatening opportunistic infections and cancers to thrive .
Infection with HIV occurs by the transfer of blood  , वीर्य , vaginal द्रव  , pre-ejaculate , or breast milk .
भीतर ये bodily fluids , hiv is उपस्थित  as both free virus particles and virus within infected immune cells .
HIV infects vital cells in the human immune system such as helper T  कोशिकाएं ( specifically cd4 + t कोशिकाएं ) , macrophages , और dendritic  cells .
HIV infection leads to low levels of CD4+ T cells through a number of mechanisms including : apoptosis of uninfected bystander cells , direct viral killing of infected  कोशिकाएं , और हत्या of संक्रमित cd4+ t कोशिकाएं by cd8 cytotoxic lymphocytes कि  recognize infected cells .
When CD4+ T cell numbers decline below a critical level , cell-mediated immunity is  खोया , और the देह becomes progressively अधिक susceptible to opportunistic  infections .
the firepole in  a fire station in Toronto
A fireman 's pole ( also called a sliding pole or firepole ) is a wooden pole or a metal tube or  पाइप संस्थापित between floors in आग स्टेशन , allowing अग्निशमन responding to an सचेतक to जल्दी descend to the मैदान मंजिल  faster than by using a standard staircase .
The device was invented in the 1870s by David Kenyon , in Chicago ,  इलिनोइस , हालांकि it is प्रायः incorrectly credited to  the Boston Fire Department .
Mary Poppins is the title character of a series of children 's books  लिखा by P. L. ट्रेवर्स  .
Throughout the Mary Poppins series , which  lasted इससे 1934 to 1988 , मरियम shepard थी the  illustrator and acted as a second author .
The books  केन्द्र on a जादुई  English nanny , Mary Poppins .
She is blown by the East wind to Number Seventeen Cherry Tree Lane , London ,  और into the बैंको ' household to परवाह लिये उनके children  .
Encounters  साथ चिमनी sweeps , दुकानदारों और विभिन्न  adventures follow until Mary Poppins abruptly leaves , i.e. , `` pops-out '' .
The adventures take  प्लेस over a कुल of आठ  books .
However , only the first three books  विशेषता मरियम poppins arriving  and leaving .
The later five books recount previously  unrecorded adventures इससे उसके असली  three visits .
As P. L. Travers explains in her introduction to Mary Poppins in the Park , `` She can  नहीं forever arrive  and depart . ''
The books were adapted in 1964 into a  musical डिज़्नी फिल्मी  starring Julie Andrews and Dick Van Dyke .
In 2004 , Disney Theatrical produced a stage musical  अनुकूलन in the वेस्ट समाप्त थिएटर  .
The stage musical was transferred to Broadway in 2006 where it  भागा जबतक इसके closing  on March 3 , 2013 .
It  रै महरूम अत्यधिक  successful , as was the 1964 film .
The Last Song is a 2010 American coming of age teen romantic drama film  विकसित alongside निकोलस स्पार्क्स ' अनोखा by the वही नाम .
The film was directed by Julie Anne Robinson  in उसके विशेषता फिल्मी directorial  debut and co-written by Sparks and Jeff Van Wie .
The Last Song stars Miley Cyrus , Liam Hemsworth , and Greg Kinnear and follows a troubled teenager as she  reconnects साथ उसके estranged पिता और जलप्रपात in प्रेम दौरान a गर्मियाँ in a शांत दक्षिणी संयुक्त राज्य  beach town .
The film is  वितरित by touchstone तस्वीरें  .
Sparks was approached  to लिखें दोनो the फिल्मी 's पटकथा  and the novel .
स्पार्क्स समाप्त the पटकथा in जनवरी 2009 ,  prior to the completion of the novel , making The Last Song his first script to be optioned for film .
The setting , originally in North Carolina like the  अनोखा , स्थानांतरित to जॉर्जिया बाद the  states had campaigned for months to host production .
upon शुरूआत उत्पादन in  Tybee Island , Georgia and nearby Savannah , The Last Song became the first movie to be both shot and set in Tybee Island .
Filming lasted from June 15 to  अगस्त 18 , 2009 साथ much of it occurring on the द्वीप  's beach and pier .
The Last Song was originally  अनुसूचित लिये चौड़ी रिलीज on जनवरी 8 , 2010  , but was postponed to March 31 , 2010 .
लिखा simlish
simlish is a fictional भाषा  featured in EA Games ' Sim series of games .
It debuted in  simcopter , और रै महरूम विशेषकर prominent in  The Sims , The Sims 2 and The Sims 3 .
The Sims development team created the unique Simlish language by experimenting  साथ fractured यूक्रेनी , फ्रेंच , लैटिन , फ़िनिश , अंग्रेज़ी ,  Fijian , Cebuano , and Tagalog .
simlish can भी be सुना in  SimCity 4 , SimCity Societies and SimCity 2013 , but far less frequently .
Civilized Creatures in Spore can also be taught  to बोलो simlish  .
It is also featured to an extent  in  Firaxis Games ' Sid Meier 's SimGolf .
Designer Will Wright was  सचेत of the need लिये संवाद in the खेल , लकिन विचार कि using a रियल भाषा होता मेक it ध्वनि too दोहराए और  would also be too costly to hire translators for world languages .
Initially , inspired by the Native  अमरीकी कोड talkers of संसार युद्ध ii , सीम निर्माता होगा राइट और भाषा  expert Marc Gimbel suggested experimenting with the Navajo language to create Simlish .
However , they ultimately decided that Simlish worked best as a `` language  '' बना up of gibberish शब्द कि could n't be अनूदित , so  that its meaning would be left open to the imagination of the player .
Wright later commented that using `` nonsense language ''  turned आउट to be the सही  development choice , as people were capable of imagining it more realistically than a computer could simulate a real one .
the वास्तविक  sound of Simlish was created improvisationally by voice actors Stephen Kearin and Gerri Lawlor .
An example of Ultrasonic  परीक्षण ( ut ) on ब्लेड जड़ें  of a V2500 IAE aircraft engine .
Step 1 : The UT probe is placed on the root of the  ब्लेड to be inspected साथ the सहायता of a खास  borescope tool ( video probe ) .
कदम 2 : यंत्र जमावट  are input .
Step 3 : The probe is scanned  over the ब्लेड  root .
In this case ,  an indication ( शिखर in the आंकड़ा ) through the  red line ( or gate ) indicates a good blade ; an indication to the left of that range indicates a crack .
Principle of  अल्ट्रासोनिक परीक्षण  .
LEFT : A probe  भेजना a ध्वनि वेव into a परीक्षण  material .
There are two indications , one from the initial pulse of the probe , and the  दूसरी due to the वापस वॉल  echo .
RIGHT : A defect creates a third  indication और simultaneously reduces the आयाम of the वापस  wall indication .
The  गहराई of the defect  is determined by the ratio D/E
In ultrasonic testing ( UT )  , बहुत छोटी अल्ट्रासोनिक pulse-waves साथ बीच बारंबारता ranging इससे 0.1-15  MHz and occasionally up to 50 MHz are launched into materials to detect internal flaws or to characterize materials .
A common example is  अल्ट्रासोनिक मोटाई मापन , जिससे परीक्षण the मोटाई of the  test object , for example , to monitor pipework corrosion .
Ultrasonic testing is often performed on steel and other metals and alloys , though  it can भी be प्रयुक्त on कंक्रीट , लकडी और composites  , albeit with less resolution .
It is a form of  non-destructive परीक्षण प्रयुक्त in अनेक उद्योग सहित aerospace  , automotive and other transportation sectors .
The vas deferens ( plural : vasa deferentia ) , also called  ductus deferens ( लैटिन : `` carrying-away पोत '' ; बहुवचन : ductus  deferentes ) , is part of the male anatomy of many vertebrates ; they transport sperm from the epididymis in anticipation of ejaculation .
vascular ischemia of the toes  with characteristic cyanosis .
In medicine  , ischemia , भी spelled as ischaemia or ischæmia , ( ; इससे  Greek language ισχαιμία , ischaimía ; isch- root denoting a restriction or thinning or to make or grow thin/lean , haema blood ) is a restriction in blood supply to tissues , causing a shortage of oxygen and glucose needed for cellular metabolism ( to keep tissue alive ) .
Ischemia is generally  caused by समस्याएं साथ रक्त  vessels , with resultant damage to or dysfunction of tissue .
It also means local anemia in a given  भाग of a देह sometimes resulting इससे  congestion ( such as vasoconstriction , thrombosis or embolism ) .
Down syndrome ( DS ) or Down 's syndrome , also known as trisomy 21 , is a  जेनेटिक विकार caused by the उपस्थिति of सब or भाग of a तीसरा नक़ल of chromosome  21 .
Down syndrome is  the सबसे आम chromosome  abnormality in humans .
It is typically  संबद्ध साथ a विलंब in संज्ञानात्मक क्षमता ( दिमागी  retardation , or MR ) and physical growth , and a particular set of facial characteristics .
The average IQ of young adults with Down syndrome is  around 50 , whereas यंग वयस्कों बगैर the कंडीशन typically  have an IQ of 100 .
( MR  रै historically महरूम  defined as an IQ below 70 . )
A large  proportion of individuals साथ  Down syndrome have a severe degree of intellectual disability .
bas सिंड्रोम is नामित बाद जॉन langdon bas  , the British physician who described the syndrome in 1866 .
The condition was clinically described earlier by  जां etienne dominique esquirol  in 1838 and Edouard Seguin in 1844 .
Down syndrome was identified as a  chromosome 21 trisomy  by Dr. Jérôme Lejeune in 1959 .
Down syndrome can be  पहचाना in a baby at जनम or पहले जनम  by prenatal screening .
pregnancies साथ इस  diagnosis are often terminated .
The CDC estimates that about  एक of प्रत्येक 691 शिशु born  in the United States each year is born with Down syndrome .
Many children with Down syndrome are educated in regular school  वर्ग जबकि अन्य आवश्यकता specialised  educational facilities .
Some children graduate from high school , and , in the US , there  हैं increasing अवसर लिये participating  in post-secondary education .
Education and proper care has been  दिखाया to improve विशेषता of  life significantly .
Many adults with Down Syndrome are able to work at paid employment in the  जातियाँ , जबकि अन्य आवश्यकता a अधिक sheltered कार्य  environment .
Hot  flashes ( भी ज्ञात as hot flushes , or रात्रि sweats if वे happen at रात्रि ) हैं a  symptom which may have several other causes , but which is often caused by the changing hormone levels that are characteristic of menopause .
The Servicemen 's Readjustment Act of 1944 ( P.L . 78-346 , 58 Stat . 284m ) , known informally as the G.I . Bill , was a law that provided  a दायरा of लाभ लिये returning संसार युद्ध ii दिग्गजों ( commonly referred to as  G.I.s ) .
Benefits included low-cost mortgages , low-interest loans to start a business or farm , cash payments of tuition and living expenses to attend  कॉलेज , ऊँची स्कूल or वोकेशनल शिक्षा , as खूब as एक साल of बेरोजगारी मुआवजे  .
It was available to every veteran who had been on active duty during the war years for at  तनिक नब्बे दिनों और था  not been dishonorably discharged ; combat was not required .
By the end of the program in  1956 , roughly 2.2 लाख दिग्गजों था  used the G.I . Bill education benefits in order to attend colleges or universities , and an additional 6.6 million used these benefits for some kind of training program .
Since the original 1944 law , the term has  आइये to शामिल अन्य दिग्गज लाभ कार्यक्रम निर्मित to  assist veterans of subsequent wars as well as peacetime service .
Historians and economists consider the G.I . Bill a major political  success—especially in कंट्रास्ट to the उपचार of संसार युद्ध i veterans—and  a major contribution to America 's stock of human capital that sped long-term economic growth .
The Watergate scandal was a political scandal that occurred in the United States in the 1970s as a result of the June 17 , 1972 break-in at the  लोकतांत्रिक नेशनल कमेटी मुख्यालय at the वाटरगेट दफ्तर जटिल in वॉशिंगटन , d.C. , और the निक्सन प्रशासन 's attempted cover-up  of its involvement .
The scandal eventually led to the  इस्तीफा of रिचर्ड निक्सन , the अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त  States , on August 9 , 1974 — the only resignation of a U.S. President .
The scandal also resulted in the  indictment , विचारण , conviction , और  incarceration of forty-three persons , dozens of whom were Nixon 's top administration officials .
The  affair began साथ the गिरफ़्तार of पाँच मेन  for breaking and entering into the Democratic National Committee ( DNC ) headquarters at the Watergate complex on June 17 , 1972 .
The Federal Bureau of Investigation ( FBI ) connected cash found on the  burglars to a slush निधि प्रयुक्त by the कमेटी लिये the re-election of the अध्यक्ष , the आधिकारिक संगठन  of Nixon 's campaign .
In  जुलाई 1973 , as प्रमाण आरोहित विरूद्ध the अध्यक्ष 's स्टाफ , सहित गवाही provided by पूर्व स्टाफ  members in an investigation conducted by the Senate Watergate Committee , it was revealed that President Nixon had a tape-recording system in his offices and he had recorded many conversations .
Recordings from these tapes implicated the president , revealing he had attempted to cover up the questionable ( and illegal ) goings-on that had taken place  दौरान उसके प्रशासन , दोनो पहले और बाद the break-in .
After a protracted series of bitter court battles , the U.S. Supreme Court  unanimously शासित कि the अध्यक्ष था to हाथ over the टेपों to सरकारी जांचकर्ताओं  ; he ultimately complied .
Facing near-certain  महाभियोग in the हाउस of प्रतिनिधि और a दमदार  possibility of a conviction in the Senate , Nixon resigned the presidency on August 9 , 1974 .
His successor ,  जेराल्ड घाट , तब जारी  a pardon to him .
Elizabeth Imogene Webber ( formerly Lansing and Spencer ) is a  fictional अक्षर on the एबीसी दिन साबुन ओपेरा सामान्य  Hospital .
Elizabeth is  the पोती  of Dr. Steve Hardy ( John Beradino ) , one of the originating core characters of the series .
Rebecca Herbst originated the character on August 1 , 1997  और रै महरूम the तभी अनुबंध  actress to play the role .
Elizabeth is part of two  supercouple pairings , भाग्यशाली  Spencer and Elizabeth Webber and Jason Morgan and Elizabeth Webber .
The United States presidency of Ronald Reagan , also  ज्ञात as the reagan प्रशासन , थी a रिपब्लिकन  administration headed by Ronald Reagan from January 20 , 1981 , to January 20 , 1989 .
Domestically , the administration favored reducing  सरकारी कार्यक्रम और introduced the  largest across-the-board tax cuts in American history .
The economic policies enacted in  1981 , ज्ञात as `` reaganomics ``  , were an example of supply-side economics .
Reagan aimed to encourage entrepreneurship and limit  the विकास of सोशल बिता , as खूब as the  reduction of regulation and inflation .
Economic growth saw a strong  रिकवरी in the 1980s , helping  Reagan to win a landslide re-election .
The national debt  increased significantly  , however .
Regarding foreign policy , the administration was  steadfastly anti-communist , कॉलिंग  the Soviet Union an `` evil empire `` and ending 1970s détente .
reagan त्वरित the विशाल buildup of the सैन्य प्रारंभ by उसके पूर्ववर्ती , सहित  an invasion of Grenada , the first major overseas action by U.S. troops since the end of the Vietnam War .
The `` Reagan Doctrine `` controversially granted aid  to अर्धसैनिक शक्तियां seeking to फेकने कम्युनिस्ट सरकारें , विशेषकर  in war-torn Central America and Afghanistan .
Reagan also promoted new  technologies ऐसे as मिसाइल रक्षा प्रणालियों in अनुक्रम to confront  the Soviets and their allies .
In  कूटनीति , reagan forged a दमदार गठबंधन साथ  UK Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher , and he met with Soviet General Secretary Mikhail Gorbachev four times , aiming to shrink the superpowers ' nuclear arsenals .
Reagan 's presidency has been termed the `` Reagan Revolution '' , or the Age of Reagan in recognition of the political  realignment दोनो भीतर और परे the u.S. in एहसान of उसके ब्रांड of कोसा और उसके आस्था in फ़्री  markets .
The Reagan administration worked toward the collapse of Soviet  साम्यवादी , और it किया पतन बस  as he left office .
Victory in the Cold War led to a unipolar  संसार साथ the u.S. as the संसार  's sole superpower .
While the  damaging iran-contra affair engulfed अनेक reagan aides दौरान उसके दूसरी पद , reagan खुद  left office with a 63 percent approval rating , one of the higher approval ratings of departing presidents .
After years of unstinting praise from the right , and unrelenting criticism from the left , historian David Henry finds that by 2009 a consensus had emerged among scholars that Reagan revived conservatism and turned the nation to the right by demonstrating a  `` pragmatic कोसा '' कि प्रचारित विचारधारा भीतर the constraints imposed by the विभाजित राजनैतिक  system .
Furthermore , says Henry  , the सर्वसम्मति viewpoint agrees कि he revived आस्था in the प्रेसिडेंसी  and American self-confidence , and contributed critically to ending the Cold War .
Crude death rate by country  ( 2006 )  .
Mortality rate is a  माप of the क्रमांक of मौतों ( in सामान्य , or due to a विशिष्ट  cause ) in a population .
Scaled  to the आकार  of that population , per unit of time .
Mortality rate is typically  expressed in इकाई of मौतों प्रति 1000 individuals  per year ; thus , a mortality rate of 9.5 ( out of 1000 ) in a population of 1,000 would mean 9.5 deaths per year in that entire population , or 0.95 % out of the total .
It is distinct  इससे morbidity रेट , जिससे refers to the क्रमांक of individuals in ग़रीब स्वास्थ्य  during a given time period ( the prevalence rate ) or the number of newly appearing cases of the disease per unit of time ( incidence rate ) .
The term `` mortality `` is also sometimes  inappropriately प्रयुक्त to refer to the क्रमांक of मौतों among a नियत of diagnosed  hospital cases for a disease or injury , rather than for the general population of a country or ethnic group .
This disease mortality  statistic is अधिक precisely  referred to as `` case fatality rate `` ( CFR ) .
एक distinguishes:
The crude death rate , the total  क्रमांक of मौतों प्रति साल प्रति  1000 people .
the  crude मौत रेट लिये the पूरे संसार is परिचय 8.37  per 1000 per year according to the current CIA World Factbook .
The perinatal mortality rate , the sum of neonatal deaths and fetal deaths (  stillbirths ) प्रति 1000 births  .
The maternal mortality ratio , the number of maternal deaths per 100,000 live  births in वही समय काल .
The maternal mortality rate , the number of maternal deaths per 1,000 women of reproductive age  in the जनसांख्यिकी ( generally पारिभाषित as 15–44 सालो  of age ) .
The  शिशु मृत्यु रेट , the क्रमांक of मौतों of children  less than 1 year old per 1000 live births .
The  चाइल्ड मृत्यु रेट , the क्रमांक of मौतों  of children less than 5 years old per 1000 live births .
The standardised mortality ratio ( SMR ) -  इस represents a आंशिक तुलना to the संख्याएँ of मौतों  that would have been expected if the population had been of a standard composition in terms of age , gender , etc .
The age-specific mortality rate ( ASMR ) - This  refers to the कुल क्रमांक of मौतों प्रति साल  per 1000 people of a given age ( e.g . age 62 last birthday ) .
In regard to the or failure of medical  उपचार  or procedures , one would also distinguish:
The  जल्दी मृत्यु रेट , the कुल क्रमांक of मौतों in the  early stages of an ongoing treatment , or in the period immediately following an treatment .
The late mortality rate , the total number of deaths in the late stages of an ongoing treatment , or a  significant लंबाई of समय बाद  an acute treatment .
Note that the crude death rate as defined above and  लागू to a पूरे जनसांख्यिकी can दे a भ्रामक छाप  .
The crude death rate depends on the age ( and gender ) specific mortality rates and the age  ( और लिंग ) वितरण of the जनसांख्यिकी  .
The number of deaths per 1000 people can be higher for developed nations than in less-developed countries , despite life expectancy being  उच्चतर in विकसित देशों due to मानकों of स्वास्थ्य  being better .
This happens because developed countries typically have a completely  अलग जनसांख्यिकी आयु वितरण  , with a much higher proportion of older people , due to both lower recent birth rates and lower mortality rates .
A more complete  चित्र of मृत्यु is दिए by a जीवन तालिका जिससे shows the  mortality rate separately for each age .
A life table is necessary to give  a शुभ अनुमान of जीवन प्रत्याशा  .
An otoacoustic  उत्सर्जन ( oae ) is a ध्वनि जिससे is उत्पन्न  from within the inner ear .
Having been predicted by Thomas Gold in 1948 , its existence was first demonstrated experimentally by David Kemp in 1978 and  otoacoustic emissions have चूंकि महरूम दिखाया to उठता by a क्रमांक of अलग सेल्यूलर mechanisms भीतर the भीतरी  ear .
Studies have shown that OAEs disappear after the inner ear has been damaged , so OAEs are often  प्रयुक्त in the प्रयोगशाला और the क्लिनिक as a माप of भीतरी कान स्वास्थ्य  .
Broadly speaking , there are two types of otoacoustic emissions :  spontaneous otoacoustic emissions ( soaes ) , जिससे can occur बगैर बाह्य उत्तेजनाओं  , and evoked otoacoustic emissions ( EOAEs ) , which require an evoking stimulus .
Hurricane Tomas was the  उन्नीसवीं नामित तूफ़ान और बारहवीं hurricane of  the 2010 Atlantic hurricane season .
Tomas developed from a tropical wave  ईस्ट of the  Windward Islands on October 29 .
Quickly intensifying into a hurricane , it moved through the Windward Islands and passed very  निकट संत लूसिया  .
After reaching Category 2 status on the Saffir-Simpson scale , Tomas quickly weakened to a  तीव्र तूफ़ान in the सेंट्रल caribbean समुद्र , due to दमदार हवा  shear and dry air .
Tomas  बाद regained  hurricane status as it reorganized near the Windward passage .
Throughout the hurricane 's path , 71 people are known to  have महरूम मारे , 14 of जिसको यहूद  in Saint Lucia .
Monetary losses throughout the Windward Islands were estimated at US $ 588  लाख , मुख्यतः in संत लूसिया  .
In the wake of the  तूफ़ान in हैती , बाढ़ intensified an  ongoing cholera outbreak indirectly causing more fatalities .
According to a report released in December 2010 , 55 people were killed  in क्यूबा और hispanola , हालांकि the वितरण of ये fatalities  are unknown .
overall क्षति इससे the  storm was at least $ 741 million .
Victoria Jackson ( born August 2 , 1959 ) is an American comedian , actress , satirist  , सिंगर और अंतरजाल ब्लॉगर बेहतरीन ज्ञात as a डाल सदस्य of the एनबीसी टेलीविज़न स्केच  comedy series Saturday Night Live ( SNL ) from 1986 to 1992 .
She has received attention as a vocal critic of President Barack Obama , and is an  क्रियाशील भागीदार in the चाय पार्टी गति  .
Postmodern literature is literature characterized by heavy reliance on techniques like fragmentation , paradox , and questionable narrators , and is often ( though not  exclusively ) पारिभाषित as a स्टाइल or ट्रेंड जिससे उभरा in the post–world  War II era .
Postmodern works are seen as a reaction against Enlightenment thinking and  modernist approaches to साहित्य  .
Postmodern literature , like postmodernism as a whole , tends to resist definition or  वर्गीकरण as a `` गति  '' .
Indeed , the convergence of postmodern  साहित्य साथ विभिन्न मोड्स of नाजुक सिद्धान्त , विशेषकर reader-response और deconstructionist  approaches , and the subversions of the implicit contract between author , text and reader by which its works are often characterised , have led to pre-modern fictions such as Cervantes ' Don Quixote ( 1605,1615 ) and Laurence Sterne 's eighteenth-century satire Tristram Shandy being retrospectively inducted into the fold .
While there is little consensus on the precise characteristics , scope , and importance of postmodern literature , as is  प्रायः the मामला साथ कलाकारी आंदोलनों , postmodern साहित्य  is commonly defined in relation to a precursor .
For example , a postmodern literary work tends not to conclude  साथ the neatly tied-up समाप्ति  as is often found in modernist literature , but often parodies it .
Postmodern authors  tend to celebrate मौका over शिल्प , और  further employ metafiction to undermine the writer 's authority .
Another characteristic of postmodern literature is the questioning of distinctions between high and low culture through the use  of pastiche , the संयोजन  of subjects and genres not previously deemed fit for literature .
Enigma is an  इलेक्ट्रॉनिक musical प्रोजेक्ट संस्थापित in जर्मनी by माइकल  Cretu , David Fairstein and Frank Peterson in 1990 .
The Romanian-born Cretu conceived the Enigma project while working in Germany , but  आधारित उसके रिकॉर्डिंग स्टुडियो a.r.t . studios in ibiza , स्पेन , इससे the जल्दी 1990s जबतक may 2009 , जहाँ  he has recorded all of Enigma 's studio releases to date .
Cretu is both the composer and  the निर्माता  of the project .
His former wife , pop singer Sandra ,  प्रायः provided vocals on पहेली ट्रैक्स  .
Jens  gad co-arranged और निभाई गिटार  on three of the Enigma albums .
Peter  कॉर्नेलियस भी contributed to  Enigma during the 1990s .
Seven studio  एल्बम have महरूम उत्पादित अंतर्गत the  name of the project .
Scooby-Doo  is an अमरीकी एनिमेटेड कार्टून मताधिकार , comprising अनेक  animated television series produced from 1969 to the present day .
The  असली श्रेणी , scooby-doo  , Where Are You !
, was  निर्मित लिये hanna-barbera  Productions by writers Joe Ruby and Ken Spears in 1969 .
This  शनिवार morning कार्टून श्रेणी प्रदर्शित चार teenagers— फ्रेड जोन्स , daphne ब्लेक , velma dinkley , और norville `` shaggy '' रोजर्स —  and their talking brown Great Dane dog named Scooby-Doo , who solve mysteries involving supposedly supernatural creatures through a series of antics and missteps .
Following the success of the original series , Hanna-Barbera and  इसके successor warner ब्रदर्स . एनिमेशन have उत्पादित numerous follow-up और spin-off  animated series and several related works , including television specials and telefilms , a line of direct-to-video films , and two Warner Bros. –produced theatrical feature films .
Some versions  of scooby-doo विशेषता अलग विसंगतियाँ on the दिखाएँ 's  supernatural theme , and include characters such as Scooby 's cousin Scooby-Dum and nephew Scrappy-Doo in addition to or instead of some of the original characters .
scooby-doo थी originally ब्रॉडकास्ट  on CBS from 1969 to 1976 , when it moved to ABC .
ABC aired the show  जबतक canceling it in 1986 , और प्रस्तुत a spin-off  featuring the characters as children , A Pup Named Scooby-Doo , from 1988 until 1991 .
Two new Scooby-Doo series ,  कया 's नई , scooby-doo  ?
and Shaggy and Scooby-Doo Get a a Clue ! ] ] , aired as part of Kids WB on The WB network  और इसके successor , the cw संजाल , इससे 2002 जबतक  2008 .
The most recent  scooby-doo श्रेणी , scooby-doo  !
रहस्य incorporated , aired  on Cartoon Network from 2010 to 2013 .
Repeats of the various Scooby-Doo series are broadcast frequently on  कार्टून संजाल और boomerang in the संयुक्त राज्य  and other countries .
Call of Duty is a  first-person और third-person शूटर  computer/ video game franchise .
The series  began on the pc , और बाद विस्तारित  to consoles and handhelds .
Several spin-off games have also  महरूम released  .
The earlier games in the series are set primarily in World War II  , इस शामिल : कॉल of ड्यूटी ,  Call of Duty 2 , and Call of Duty 3 .
Beginning with  आधुनिक warfare , जिससे is नियत in  modern times , the series has shifted focus away from World War II .
कॉल of ड्यूटी 4 : आधुनिक warfare ( released  November 2007 ) was followed by Call of Duty : World at War and Call of Duty : Modern Warfare 2 .
Black Ops ( released November 2010 ) takes place in the Cold War , while Modern Warfare 3 (  released नवम्बर 2011 ) takes प्लेस in the near-future सेटिंग  .
Black Ops 2 ( Released November  13 , 2012 ) takes प्लेस  in the year 2025 .
The Call of Duty games  हैं प्रकाशित और स्वामित्व by एक्टिविजन  with Aspyr Media publishing it for Apple OS X .
While the studio Infinity Ward  primarily स्टिल develops उन्हें , treyarch  has also developed several of the titles with the release of the studios ' games interlaced with each other .
Some games have been developed by Gray  पदार्थ इंटरैक्टिव , चिंगारी असीमित  , Amaze Entertainment , n-Space , Rebellion Developments , Ideaworks Game Studio , Sledgehammer Games and nStigate Games .
The games use a variety of engines , including the id Tech 3 ,  the treyarch ngl , और the iw 5.0  .
Other products in the franchise include a line of action figures designed by Plan-B Toys , a card game  निर्मित by अपर डेक , और a कॉमिक किताब mini-series प्रकाशित  by WildStorm .
As of November 11 , 2011 , the Call Of Duty series have  बेची over 100  million copies .
As of March 31 , 2012 there are 40 million monthly active players across all of the Call of Duty titles ,  साथ 10 लाख कॉल of ड्यूटी : elite उपयोक्ता  and 2 million paying annual members .
Over 1.6 billion hours of  ऑनलाइन gameplay have महरूम logged आधुनिक warfare  3 since its 2011 release .
The estate  कर in the संयुक्त राज्य is a कर imposed on the ट्रांसफ़र of the `` taxable एस्टेट  `` of a deceased person , whether such property is transferred via a will , according to the state laws of intestacy or otherwise made as an incident of the death of the owner , such as a transfer of property from an intestate estate or trust , or the payment of certain life insurance benefits or financial account sums to beneficiaries .
The estate tax is one part of the  एकीकृत तोहफा और एस्टेट कर प्रणाली  in the United States .
The other part of the system , the gift tax ,  imposes a कर on हस्तांतरण of प्रॉपर्टी दौरान a व्यक्ति 's जीवन  ; the gift tax prevents avoidance of the estate tax should a person want to give away his/her estate .
In addition to the federal government , many states also  थोपने an एस्टेट कर , साथ the राज्य संस्करण पुकारा either an एस्टेट  tax or an inheritance tax .
Opponents of the estate tax  कॉल it the `` मौत  tax '' .
If an asset is left to a spouse or a Federally  पहचाना दान , the कर प्रायः  does not apply .
In addition , up to $ 5,250,000 can be given by an  व्यक्तिगत , पहले and/or upon उनके मौत  , without incurring federal gift or estate taxes .
Gavin McGregor Rossdale ( born 30 October 1967 ) is an English actor and musician  , ज्ञात as the सीसे सिंगर और  rhythm guitarist of the rock band Bush .
Following Bush 's separation in 2002 , which lasted for  आठ सालो , he थी the सीसे सिंगर  and guitarist for Institute , and later began a solo career .
When performing solo , Gavin plays songs from  उसके extensive musical पुस्तकालयों  .
Rossdale has been ranked in the Top 100 Heavy Metal  vocalists by hit parader ( # 75 )  .
Raffaello Sanzio da Urbino ( April 6 or March 28 , 1483 –  अप्रैल 6 , 1520 ) , बेहतर ज्ञात बस as राफेल  , was an Italian painter and architect of the High Renaissance .
His work is admired for its clarity of form  और आसानी of संयोजन और लिये  its visual achievement of the Neoplatonic ideal of human grandeur .
Together with Michelangelo and Leonardo da  विंची , he फ़ॉर्म the परंपरागत ट्रिनिटी  of great masters of that period .
Raphael was  enormously उत्पादक , कार्यशील an unusually विशाल कार्यशाला , और  despite his death at 37 , a large body of his work remains .
Many of his works are found in the Vatican Palace , where the  frescoed राफेल कक्ष यहूद the सेंट्रल , और  the largest , work of his career .
The best known work is The School of Athens  in the वेटिकन stanza  della Segnatura .
After his early years in Rome much of his work was self-designed , but for the most part executed by the workshop  इससे उसके drawings , साथ considerable घाटा of विशेषता  .
He was  अत्यधिक influential  in his lifetime , though outside Rome his work was mostly known from his collaborative printmaking .
After his death , the influence of his great rival Michelangelo was more widespread until the 18th and 19th  सदियां , जब राफेल 's अधिक निर्मल और समन्वयात्मक qualities यहूद again regarded as the  highest models .
His career falls naturally into three phases and three styles , first described by Giorgio Vasari : his early years in Umbria , then a period of  परिचय चार सालो ( इससे 1504–1508 ) absorbing the कलाकारी परंपराओं of फ्लोरेंस , followed by उसके पिछला  hectic and triumphant twelve years in Rome , working for two Popes and their close associates .
Julia Fiona Roberts ( born  अक्तूबर 28 , 1967 ) is an अमरीकी अभिनेत्री  .
She became a Hollywood star after  headlining the रोमांटिक कॉमेडी pretty स्त्री ( 1990 )  , which grossed $ 464 million worldwide .
After receiving Golden Globe Awards and Academy Award  nominations लिये स्टील magnolias ( 1989 ) और pretty स्त्री , वो जीती  the Academy Award for Best Actress for her performance in Erin Brockovich ( 2000 ) .
Her films The Pelican Brief ( 1993 ) , My Best Friend 's Wedding ( 1997 ) , Mystic Pizza ( 1988 ) , Notting Hill ( 1999 ) , Runaway Bride ( 1999 ) , Ocean 's Eleven ( 2001 ) , Ocean 's Twelve ( 2004 ) , Charlie Wilson 's War ( 2007 ) , Valentine 's Day ( 2010 ) , Eat Pray  प्रेम ( 2010 ) , और दर्पण दर्पण ( 2012 ) have collectively brought बक्सा दफ्तर रसीदें of over  $ 2.6 billion , making her one of the most successful actresses in terms of box office receipts .
Roberts had become one of the highest-paid  अभिनेत्रियों in the संसार , टॉपिंग the हॉलीवुड पत्रकारों सालाना ``  power list '' of top-earning female stars from 2005 to 2006 .
Her fee for 1990 's Pretty Woman was $ 300,000 ; in 2003 , she was  सशुल्क an unprecedented $ 25 लाख लिये उसके भूमिका in mona  Lisa Smile ( 2003 ) .
As of 2010  , रॉबर्ट्स 's जाल लायक थी  estimated to be $ 140 million .
Roberts has been named one of People magazine 's `` 50 Most  खूबसूरत लोगों in the संसार  '' eleven times , tied with Halle Berry .
In 2011 , she was named one of the `` 100 Hottest Women of  all-time '' by मेन 's  Health .
In 2001 , Ladies Home Journal  क्रमित उसके as the 11th सबसे  powerful woman in the United States .
Mark Elliot Zuckerberg ( born May 14 ,  1984 ) is an अमरीकी कंप्यूटर  programmer and Internet entrepreneur .
He is best known as one of five co-founders of the  सोशल नेटवर्किंग जालस्थल फेसबुक  .
As of April 2013 , Zuckerberg is the chairman and chief executive of Facebook , Inc. and in 2013  उसके निजी माल थी अनुमानित to be us $ 13 .3 अरब  .
Together with his college roommates and fellow Harvard University students Eduardo Saverin , Andrew McCollum , Dustin Moskovitz and Chris  ह्यूजेस , zuckerberg शुभारम्भ फेसबुक इससे हार्वर्ड 's  dormitory rooms .
The group then introduced Facebook onto  अन्य campuses देशभर और स्थानांतरित to पालो आल्टो  , California , United States ( U.S. ) shortly afterwards .
In 2007 , at the age of  twenty-three सालो , zuckerberg became a अरबपति as a परिणाम of फेसबुक और the क्रमांक of फेसबुक  users worldwide reached a total of one billion in 2012 .
zuckerberg थी शामिल in विभिन्न विधिक विवादों कि यहूद initiated  by others in the group , who claimed a share of the company based upon their involvement during the development phase of Facebook .
Since 2010 , Zuckerberg has been named among the 100 wealthiest  और सबसे influential लोगों in the संसार by  Time magazine as a part of its Person of the Year accolade .
Zuckerberg was played by actor Jesse Eisenberg in the 2010  हॉलीवुड फिल्मी the सोशल संजाल  in which the rise of Facebook is portrayed .
The Mayflower was the ship that in 1620 transported 102 English  तीर्थयात्रियों , सहित a कोर समूह of separatists , to नई  England .
Their story is one of travail and survival in a harsh New  संसार पर्यावरण  .
framedthe
Committee of Ways and Means is the chief tax -writing committee of the  संयुक्त राज्य हाउस of प्रतिनिधि  .
Members of the Ways and Means Committee are not allowed to serve on any other House Committees unless they apply for a waiver from their party  's congressional  leadership .
The  कमेटी रै क्षेत्राधिकार over सब कराधान , tariffs और अन्य revenue-raising  measures , as well as a number of other programs including:
सोशल सुरक्षा
बेरोजगारी  benefits
medicare
प्रवर्तन  of child support laws
Temporary Assistance for Needy  परिवारों , a संघीय welfare  program
फोस्टर परवाह  and adoption programs
The U.S. Constitution requires that all bills  regarding कराधान जरूर originate in the हाउस  of Representatives .
Since House procedure is that all bills regarding taxation must go through this committee  , the कमेटी is बहुत influential , as is इसके सीनेट बंटवारा  , the U.S. Senate Committee on Finance .
The Ways and Means Committee in the  111th कॉंग्रेस थी chaired by चार्ली rangel  , who had taken a leave of absence as chairman until House ethics violations were resolved .
However , his leave of  अनुपस्थिति as अध्यक्ष थी  ruled to be a resignation .
Pete Stark resigned as acting chairman , so Sander Levin held that  स्थिति जबतक the प्रारंभ of the 112th कॉंग्रेस  .
Dave Camp became the committee chair for the 112th  कॉंग्रेस , बाद the republicans जीती कंट्रोल of the हाउस  in the 2010 election .
The blue whale (  balaenoptera musculus ) is a समुद्री स्तनधारी belonging to the suborder of baleen  whales ( called Mysticeti ) .
At in  लंबाई और or अधिक in वज़न  , it is the largest known animal to have ever existed .
Long and  slender , the ब्लू व्हेल 's देह can be विभिन्न शेड्स  of bluish-grey dorsally and somewhat lighter underneath .
There are at least three distinct  subspecies : B. m. musculus of the उत्तर अटलांटिक  and North Pacific , B. m. intermedia of the Southern Ocean and B. m. brevicauda ( also known as the pygmy blue whale ) found in the Indian Ocean and South Pacific Ocean .
B. m. indica , found in the  भारतीय समंदर , may be  another subspecies .
As with  अन्य baleen whales , इसके आहार consists  almost exclusively of small crustaceans known as krill .
Blue whales were abundant in nearly all the oceans on Earth until the  शुरूआत of the बीसवीं सदी  .
For over a century , they were  hunted लगभग to extinction by whalers जबतक  protected by the international community in 1966 .
A 2002 report  अनुमानित वहीँ यहूद 5,000 to 12,000 ब्लू whales विश्वव्यापी  , located in at least five groups .
More recent  शोध into the सानो subspecies  suggests this may be an underestimate .
Before whaling , the largest population  थी in the अंटार्कटिक , क्रमांकन लगभग  239,000 ( range 202,000 to 311,000 ) .
There remain only much smaller ( around  2,000 ) एकाग्रता in प्रत्येक of the पूर्वी  North Pacific , Antarctic , and Indian Ocean groups .
There are two more groups in the  उत्तर अटलांटिक , और at तनिक दो in  the Southern Hemisphere .
The globe artichoke ( Cynara cardunculus  var . scolymus ) is a किस्में  of a species of thistle cultivated as a food .
The edible matter is buds that form within the flower  heads पहले the पुष्प आइये into खिलते  .
The  कलियों go दूर or बदलें to a coarse  , barely edible form when the flower blooms .
The uncultivated or  जंगली किस्में of the प्रजाति  is called a cardoon .
It is a  बारहमासी संयंत्र देशी to the भूमध्यसागरीय  region .
The United  राज्य एक hundred-dollar  bill ( $ 100 ) is a denomination of United States currency .
U.S. statesman , inventor  , और राजनयिक बेंजामिन फ्रैंकलिन is फिलहाल  featured on the obverse of the bill .
On the reverse of the banknote  is an चित्र of स्वतंत्रता  Hall .
The $ 100 bill is the largest denomination that has  महरूम मुद्रित चूंकि जुलाई 13 , 1969 , जब the denominations of $ 500 , $  1,000 , $ 5,000 , and $ 10,000 were retired .
The Bureau of Engraving and Printing  says the औसत जीवन of a $ 100 विधेयक in परिसंचरण is 90 महीने  ( 7.5 years ) before it is replaced due to wear and tear .
The bills are also commonly referred to as `` Benjamins '' , in reference to the  उपयोग of बेंजामिन फ्रैंकलिन 's पोर्ट्रेट on the denomination , or `` c-notes '' , आधारित on the  Roman numeral for 100 .
The bill is one of two denominations printed  आज कि करता नहीं विशेषता a अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त  States ; the other is the $ 10 bill , featuring Alexander Hamilton .
The time on the clock of Independence Hall on the reverse , according  to the u.S. ब्यूरो of नक्काशी  and Printing , shows approximately 4:10 .
One hundred hundred-dollar  बिल्स हैं वितरित by संघीय आरक्षित  Banks in mustard-colored straps ( $ 10,000 ) .
The Series 2009 $ 100 bill redesign was unveiled on April 21 , 2010 ,  और थी to be जारी to the पब्लिक on फ़रवरी 11 , 2011 , लकिन उत्पादन थी shut bas in दिसम्बर 2010  because as many as 30 % were unusable due to a manufacturing flaw .
A vertical crease in the paper reveals a  रिक्त स्पेस on the विधेयक जब  pulled out .
In their replacement , and continuing the high demand of  इस denomination , the श्रेणी 2006a थी शुभारम्भ retaining the  previous design ( 1996-generation ) .
On April 24  , 2013 , the संघीय आरक्षित घोषित the नई  $ 100 bill would enter circulation on October 8 , 2013 .
King David in robes of a  बीज़ान्टिन सम्राट  .
miniature इससे  the Paris Psalter .
David ( ; ISO 259-3 Dawid ; ' ; Strong 's : Daveed ) according to the Hebrew Bible  , थी the दूसरी किंग of the संयुक्त किंगडम of इसराईल , और according to the  New Testament Gospels of Matthew and Luke , an ancestor of Jesus .
His life is conventionally dated to c. 1040–970 BCE ,  उसके शासनकाल over यहूदा c. 1010–1002 bce , और उसके शासनकाल  over the United Kingdom of Israel c. 1002–970 BCE .
The Books of Samuel , 1 Kings , and 1 Chronicles  हैं the तभी स्त्रोत of सूचना on दाउद , हालांकि the tel डान stele ( दिनाँक c. 850–835 bce ) contains the phrase  ( bytdwd ) , read as `` House of David '' , which most scholars take as confirmation of the existence in the mid-9th century BCE of a Judean royal dynasty called the House of David .
He is depicted as a righteous  किंग , हालांकि नहीं बगैर त्रुटियां , as खूब as an acclaimed योद्धा , संगीतकार  , and poet , traditionally credited for composing many of the psalms contained in the Book of Psalms .
David is central  to यहूदी , ईसाई ,  and Islamic doctrine and culture .
biblical परंपरा maintains कि a  direct descendant of David will be the Messiah .
In  islam he is माना to be a नबी  and the king of a nation .
Kathmandu  ( ; ) is the पूंजी और largest शहरी  agglomerate of Nepal .
The agglomerate consists of  काठमांडू महानगर नगर  at its core , and its sister cities Patan , Kirtipur , Thimi , and Bhaktapur .
It also  शामिल the recently पहचाना शहरी क्षेत्रों of shankhapur  , Karyabinayak , and Champapur .
Banepa , Dhulikhel , and Panauti are satellite urban areas of Kathmandu located just  बाहर the काठमांडू घाटी  .
Kathmandu is also known informally as `` KTM '' or the  `` tri-city '' .
According to a census conducted in 2011 , Kathmandu  metropolis अलोन रै 975,453 निवासियों  ; and the agglomerate has a population of more than 2.5 million inhabitants .
The metropolitan city area is and has a population  घनत्व of 19,250  per km2 .
The city stands at an elevation of approximately in the  bowl-shaped काठमांडू घाटी of सेंट्रल  Nepal .
It is surrounded by four  प्रमुख kyu : shivapuri , phulchoki  , Nagarjun , and Chandragiri .
Kathmandu Valley is part of three districts (  काठमांडू , ललितपुर , और भक्तपुर ) , रै the उच्चतम  population density in the country , and is home to about a twelfth of Nepal 's population .
During Rana and Shah eras , the name `` Nepal '' referred only to the Kathmandu  घाटी ; it थी कया लोगों जो जिया बाहर the घाटी पुकारा  it .
During this period , British historians called the  घाटी itself `` नेपाल  Proper '' .
आज , काठमांडू is नहीं तभी the पूंजी of the संघीय  Democratic Republic of Nepal , but also the headquarters of the Central Development Region of Nepal .
The  सेंट्रल प्रदेश comprises तीन zones  : Bagmati , Narayani , and Janakpur .
Kathmandu is  स्तिथ in the bagmati  Zone .
काठमांडू is the  gateway to tourism in Nepal .
It is also the nerve center  of the देश 's अर्थव्यवस्था  .
It has the most advanced infrastructure of any urban area in  नेपाल , और इसके अर्थव्यवस्था is केन्द्रित on पर्यटन , जिससे accounted लिये  3.8 % of Nepal 's GDP in 1995–96 .
(  पर्यटन in काठमांडू अस्वीकृत thereafter दौरान  a period of political unrest , but since then has improved . )
The city has a rich  इतिहास , spanning nearly 2000 सालो  , as inferred from inscriptions found in the valley .
Religious and cultural festivities form a  प्रमुख भाग of the जीवनदान of लोगों residing  in Kathmandu .
Most of Kathmandu 's people follow Hinduism and  अनेक अन्य follow buddhism  .
There are people of other religious beliefs as well , giving  काठमांडू a कॉस्मोपॉलिटन  culture .
Nepali is the  सबसे commonly बोला भाषा  in the city .
नेपाल bhasa is the स्वदेशी  language spoken by the Newar people .
Hindi is widely  समझा और अंग्रेज़ी is समझा  by Kathmandu 's educated residents .
The city  's साक्षरता रेट  is 98 % .
Kathmandu 's sister cities ( Lalitpur Patan ) and Bhaktapur are integral to Kathmandu 's cultural heritage , tourism  उद्योग , और अर्थव्यवस्था ; इसलिए युनेस्को 's संसार विरासत साईट सूचियाँ सब तीन  cities ' monuments and attractions together under one heading , `` Kathmandu Valley- UNESCO World Heritage Site `` .
Field hockey , usually referred to simply as hockey , is a team sport of the hockey  परिवार जिससे is निभाई between दो टीमों of ग्यारह खिलाड़ी साथ हॉकी  sticks and a hard , solid plastic ball .
At the turn of the 21st century , the game is played globally , with particular popularity  throughout यूरोपीय , एशिया , महासागरीय , और दक्षिण अमेरिका – in जोड to होने  the national sport of Pakistan and India .
The term `` field hockey '' is used  primarily in कनाडा , the संयुक्त राज्य , और अन्य regions  of the world where the sport of ice hockey is more popular .
During play , goal keepers are the only players who are allowed to touch the ball with any part of their body ( with the exception of a player 's hand considered 'part of  the स्टिक ' ) , साथ इस तभी applying भीतर the शूटिंग वृत्त ( भी ज्ञात as the d , or शूटिंग चाप , or बस the वृत्त )  , while field players play the ball with the flat side of their stick .
The team that  स्कोर the  most goals by the end of the match wins .
If the  स्कोर is tied at the समाप्त of the खेल , either a चित्रण is घोषित or the खेल goes into अतिरिक्त समय and/or  a penalty shootout , depending on the competition 's format .
The governing body of hockey is the International Hockey  संघ ( fih ) , साथ मेन और महिलाओं होने represented internationally in प्रतियोगिताओं सहित the ओलम्पिक खेल , राष्ट्रमंडल खेल , हॉकी संसार कप , champions  Trophy and Junior Hockey World Cup , with many countries running extensive junior , senior , and masters ' club competitions .
The FIH is also  जिम्मेदार लिये organising the हॉकी नियम फलक  and developing the rules for the sport .
A popular variant of field hockey is indoor hockey  , जिससे differs in a क्रमांक  of respects while embodying the primary principles of hockey .
Indoor hockey is a 6-a-side  रूपांतर , साथ a फ़ील्ड जिससे is घटाया to लगभग  40m × 20m .
With many of the rules remaining the same , including obstruction and feet , there are several key variations - Players may not raise the ball unless shooting on  लक्ष्य , खिलाड़ी may नहीं hit the बॉल ( बजाय utilising pushes to ट्रांसफ़र the बॉल ) , और the sidelines हैं replaced साथ ठोस बाधाओं जिससे the बॉल  will rebound off .
Ethan `` Cane '' Ashby ( né  एटकिन्सन ) is a fictional अक्षर इससे the अमरीकी  CBS soap opera The Young and the Restless .
He is  portrayed by ऑस्ट्रेलियाई कर्ता डेनियल गोडार्ड , जो originally  auditioned for Brad Snyder on As the World Turns but was recommended for a role on The Young and the Restless instead .
The role was to be portrayed as an American , but Goddard 's  ऑस्ट्रेलियाई descent बहकावे  the character 's background .
Former head writer Lynn Marie Latham introduced him during the  एपीसोड airing on जनवरी 12 , 2007 as an ऑस्ट्रेलियाई बारटेंडर in ढूंढें of उसके परिवार , a डेब्यू कि  received a mixed response .
Latham created Cane as the son of Phillip Chancellor II ( Donnelly Rhodes ) and Jill Foster Abbott ( Jess Walton ) but the character 's  पृष्ठभूमि थी rewritten by मरिया एरिना घंटी in 2009 , reestablishing उसे as the बेटे of कोलिन  and Genevieve Atkinson ( Tristan Rogers and Genie Francis ) .
Though characterized as `` mysterious '' , Cane is `` loyal and  समर्पित '' , जबकि गोडार्ड वर्णित the अक्षर  as a `` typical Australian , working-class kind of guy '' .
He was the first member of the Atkinson family to appear on  the श्रेणी , followed by उसके अभिभावक और  identical twin brother .
Soon after his debut , he became a leading character  , a निर्णय praised by दर्शक  and critics .
The character has been involved with Amber Moore ( Adrienne Frantz ) ,  क्लो मिशेल ( एलिज़ाबेथ hendrickson ) और सबसे notably लिली सर्दियों ( christel  Khalil ) , a romance that garnered significant fan attention .
In 2009 , Cane and Lily were married ; Global  bc होता बाद कॉल लिली the  love of Cane 's life .
The pair had two children , Charlie  और mattie ashby  .
In 2011 , the actor was fired , and  cane थी शॉट to मौत onscreen  .
However , Goddard was  rehired जल्द बाद दर्शक campaigned लिये उसके वापसी , revealing कि cane  's identical twin brother was in fact the man who died .
This sacrificed his marriage to Lily , but  the युगल यहूद remarried on वेलेंटाइन  's Day in 2012 .
Goddard has been widely acclaimed for his portrayal ; Canyon News said that he  portrays the अक्षर honestly  , and is `` always dependable , on fire and exciting '' .
John  क्रिस्टोफर `` जॉनी '' डेप ii ( born जून 9  , 1963 ) is an American actor , film producer , and musician .
He has won the Golden Globe  पुरस्कार और स्क्रीन अभिनेताओं गिल्ड  award for Best Actor .
Depp rose to prominence on the 1980s  टेलीविज़न श्रेणी 21 जम्प गली ,  becoming a teen idol .
Dissatisfied with that status , Depp turned to film for  अधिक चुनौतीपूर्ण भूमिकाएँ ; he निभाई the शीर्षक अक्षर of the acclaimed एडवर्ड scissorhands ( 1990 ) और बाद मिला बक्सा दफ्तर कामयाबी  in films such as Sleepy Hollow ( 1999 ) , Charlie and the Chocolate Factory ( 2005 ) , Alice in Wonderland ( 2010 ) , Rango ( 2011 ) and the Pirates of the Caribbean film series ( 2003–present ) .
He has collaborated with director and friend Tim Burton in  आठ films ; the सबसे हाल  being Dark Shadows ( 2012 ) .
Depp has gained acclaim for his portrayals of such people as Ed Wood in Ed Wood , Joseph D.  pistone in donnie brasco , शिकारी S. थॉम्पसन in भय और loathing in लास वेगास , जार्ज जंग in उड़ा  , and the bank robber John Dillinger in Michael Mann 's Public Enemies .
Films featuring Depp have grossed over $ 3.1 billion  at the संयुक्त राज्य बक्सा दफ्तर  and over $ 7.6 billion worldwide .
He has been nominated for top awards many times , winning the Best Actor Awards  इससे the सुनहरी –_motion_picture_musical_or_comedy ग्लोब्स –_motion_picture_musical_or_comedy लिये स्वीनी टॉड : the राक्षस नाई of बेड़े  Street and from the Screen Actors Guild for Pirates of the Caribbean : The Curse of the Black Pearl .
He also has garnered a sex symbol status in  अमरीकी सिनेमा  , being twice named as the `` Sexiest Man Alive `` by People magazine in 2003 and 2009 .
He has been listed in the 2012  गिनीज किताब of संसार रिकॉर्ड as the उच्चतम सशुल्क  actor , with $ 75 million .
The World Wide Web ( abbreviated as WWW or W3 , commonly known as the web ) , is a  प्रणाली of interlinked हाइपरटेक्स्ट दस्तावेज़ पहुँचा  via the Internet .
With a web browser , one can view web pages that may contain text , images ,  वीडियो , और अन्य मल्टीमीडिया , और  navigate between them via hyperlinks .
Using concepts from his earlier hypertext systems like ENQUIRE , British  इंजीनियर , कंप्यूटर वैज्ञानिक और at कि समय कर्मचारी of the cern , सर टिम berners-lee , अभी निदेशक of the संसार चौड़ी वेब consortium ( w3c ) , लिखा  a proposal in March 1989 for what would eventually become the World Wide Web .
At CERN , a European research organisation near Geneva straddling the border between France and  स्विट्ज़रलैंड , berners-lee और belgian कंप्यूटर वैज्ञानिक रॉबर्ट cailliau प्रस्तावित in 1990 to उपयोग हाइपरटेक्स्ट `` to कड़ी और अभिगम  information of various kinds as a web of nodes in which the user can browse at will '' , and they publicly introduced the project in December of the same year .
Mark Travis John Sanchez ( born  नवम्बर 11 , 1986 ) is an अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल क्वार्टरबैक  for the New York Jets of the National Football League ( NFL ) .
He was drafted in the first round of the 2009 NFL Draft as  the पांचवां overall चयन by the jets और the  second quarterback taken overall .
He played college football  at the विश्वविद्यालयों of दक्षिणी  California ( USC ) .
Sanchez grew  up in a well-disciplined और एथलेटिक  family .
In the eighth grade , he began to play  फ़ुटबॉल और सीख the intricacies of the क्वार्टरबैक स्थिति  , training with his father , Nick .
A well-regarded  prospect , सांचेज़ वचनबद्ध to दक्षिणी कैलिफ़ोर्निया following उसके कामयाब ऊँची स्कूल  career in which he led his team to a championship title during his final season .
At USC , Sanchez was relegated as the backup quarterback during his first three years though he rose to prominence due  to उसके ब्रैड दिखावे on the फ़ील्ड in  2007 due to injuries suffered by starting quarterback John David Booty .
Sanchez also became popular within the  जातियाँ due to उसके mexican-american  heritage .
Named the starter in 2008 , Sanchez led USC to a 12–1 record and won the Rose Bowl against Penn State for  जिससे सांचेज़ थी awarded the सबसे मूल्यवान खिलाड़ी पुरस्कार  for his performance on offense .
Although  अनेक माना उसे  too inexperienced , Sanchez announced his intention to enter the 2009 NFL Draft .
He was selected by the Jets after they traded up with the Cleveland Browns , and was named the starting quarterback prior  to the प्रारंभ of the ऋतु .
Despite a subpar performance , Sanchez led the Jets to the AFC Championship Game , a losing effort  to the इंडियानापोलिस कोल्टस , बनने the चौथी रुकी क्वार्टरबैक in एनएफएल इतिहास  to win his first playoff game and the second to win two playoff games .
In his second season , Sanchez continued to develop and led the Jets to the playoffs and the team 's second consecutive AFC  चैंपियनशिप खेल जहाँ वे narrowly खोया  to the Pittsburgh Steelers , 24–19 .
With the win over the New England Patriots the week prior , Sanchez tied four other  quarterbacks लिये the दूसरी सबसे post-season सड़क victories by a क्वार्टरबैक  in NFL history .
In leading the Jets to two consecutive conference championships , Sanchez  joined क्वार्टरबैक बेन roethlisberger as the तभी दो quarterbacks in एनएफएल  history to reach the conference championship in their first two seasons in the league .
The next two seasons would  be a स्लोप लिये दोनो the टोली और सांचेज़  as they failed to reach the playoffs .
Fans and media critics  पुकारा लिये a struggling  Sanchez to be benched .
He eventually  थी replaced towards  the end of the 2012 season with Greg McElroy .
Paul Avery ( April 2 , 1934December 10 , 2000 )  थी an अमरीकी पुलिस रिपोर्टर , बेहतरीन ज्ञात लिये उसके कहानियां  on the infamous serial killer known as the Zodiac , and later for his work on the Patricia Hearst kidnapping .
A small  submersible ac sump पंप साथ  a garden hose connector
A sump  पंप is a पंप प्रयुक्त to हटाएँ जल कि रै संचित  in a water collecting sump basin , commonly found in the basement of homes .
The water may enter via the perimeter drains of a basement waterproofing system , funneling into the basin or because of rain or natural  मैदान जल , if the तहखाने is नीचे the जल तालिका  level .
Sump pumps are used where basement flooding happens  regularly और to उपाय dampness जहाँ the जल तालिका is ऊपर  the foundation of a home .
Sump pumps send water away from a house to any place  जहाँ it is no longer समस्यापूर्ण , ऐसे as a  municipal storm drain or a dry well .
Pumps may discharge to the sanitary  सीवर in पुरानी संस्थापना  .
Once considered acceptable , this practice may now violate the plumbing code or  नगरपालिका bylaws , क्युकी it can  overwhelm the municipal sewage treatment system .
municipalities urge homeowners to डिस्कनेक्ट और  reroute sump pump discharge away from sanitary sewers .
Fines may  be imposed  for noncompliance .
Many homeowners have inherited their sump pump  configurations और do नहीं एहसास  that the pump discharges to the sewer .
If the  निर्वहन is खिलाया to a  laundry sink in the basement , it 's likely going to the sewer .
Usually hardwired into a home 's electrical  प्रणाली , sump पंपों may have a बैटरी बैकअप  .
The home 's pressurized water supply powers some pumps , eliminating the need for electricity at the expense of using potable water , potentially making them  अधिक महंगी to operate than विद्युत पंपों और बनाना an अतिरिक्त  water disposal problem .
Since a sump basin may overflow if not constantly pumped , a backup system is important for cases when the main power is out for prolonged  अवधि  of time , as during a severe storm .
There  हैं generally दो प्रकार of sump  pumps — pedestal and submersible .
The pedestal  पंप 's मोटर is आरोहित ऊपर the sump , जहाँ  it is more easily serviced , but is also more conspicuous .
The pump impeller is driven by a long ,  लंबवत एक्सटेंशन शाफ्ट और the impeller is in a  scroll housing in the base of the pump .
The  submersible पंप is entirely आरोहित अंदर the sump , और  is specially sealed to prevent electrical short circuits .
Sump pump systems are also utilized  in औद्योगिक और वाणिज्यिक अनुप्रयोग to कंट्रोल  water table -related problems in surface soil .
An  आर्टेसियन aquifer or आवधिक ऊँची जल तालिका  situation can cause the ground to become unstable due to water saturation .
As long  as the पंप कृत्यों  , the surface soil will remain stable .
These sumps are typically ten feet in depth or more ; lined  साथ corrugated मेटल पाइप कि contains perforations or नाली  holes throughout .
They may include electronic control systems with visual and audible  सचेतक और हैं प्रायः covered to prevent मलबा और पशु इससे गिरना  in .
Bleeding Kansas , Bloody Kansas or the Border War , was a series of violent political confrontations involving anti-slavery  free-staters और pro-slavery `` किनारा ruffian `` तत्व , कि took प्लेस in the कान्सास territory और the  neighboring towns of Missouri between 1854 and 1861 .
At the heart of the conflict was the question of whether  कान्सास होता डालें the संघ as a फ़्री  state or slave state .
As such , Bleeding Kansas was a proxy war between  northerners और southerners over the समस्या  of slavery in the United States .
The term `` Bleeding Kansas '' was coined by  होरेस greeley of the नई यॉर्क ट्रिब्यून ; the कार्यक्रम it  encompasses directly presaged the American Civil War .
Congress had long  struggled to संतुलन the रूचि of  pro-slavery forces and anti-slavery forces .
The events later known as Bleeding Kansas  यहूद नियत into गति by the kansas–nebraska  Act of 1854 , which nullified the Missouri Compromise and instead implemented the concept of popular sovereignty .
An ostensibly democratic idea , popular sovereignty stated that the inhabitants of each territory or state should decide whether it  होता be a फ़्री or स्लेव राज्य ; however , इस resulted in आव्रजन en masse  to Kansas by activists from both sides .
At one point , Kansas had two separate governments , each with its own  संविधान , हालांकि तभी एक थी federally पहचाना  .
On January 29 , 1861 , Kansas was admitted to the Union as  a फ़्री राज्य , कम than तीन महीने पहले  the Battle of Fort Sumter which began the Civil War .
Benzene is an  सशुल्क रासायनिक यौगिक साथ  the molecular formula C6 H|Hydrogen|H6 .
Its molecule is composed of 6 carbon atoms joined in a ring ,  साथ 1 हाइड्रोजन अणु संलग्न to प्रत्येक  carbon atom .
Because its molecules contain only carbon  और हाइड्रोजन अणु , बेंजीन is classed as  a hydrocarbon .
Benzene is a  प्राकृतिक constituent of crude  oil , and is one of the most basic petrochemicals .
बेंजीन is an खुशबूदार हाइड्रोकार्बन और the दूसरी [ n ] -  annulene ( [ 6 ] -annulene ) , a cyclic hydrocarbon with a continuous pi bond .
It is sometimes abbreviated Ph –H . Benzene  is a colorless और अत्यधिक  flammable liquid with a sweet smell .
It is mainly used as a precursor to heavy chemicals , such as  ethylbenzene और cumene , जिससे हैं  produced on a billion kilogram scale .
Because it has a high octane number , it is an  महत्वपूर्ण घटक of गैसोलीन , composing a few प्रतिशत of इसके  mass .
Most non-industrial  अनुप्रयोग have महरूम सीमित by  benzene 's carcinogenicity .
giovanni virginio स्क्यापारेल्ली ( ; 14  March 1835 – 4 July 1910 ) was an Italian astronomer and science historian .
Wii homebrew refers to the reuse of Nintendo 's Wii  खेल कंसोल to चलाएं तन्त्र कि रै  not been authorized by Nintendo .
it achieves इस by defeating the वी  's copy protection and code signing measures .
In more general terms , Wii Homebrew refers to the use of the Wii 's hardware , accessories and  तन्त्र लिये उद्देश्य बाहर those intended by the निर्माता  .
Original efforts focused on using the Wii Remote as a  इंगित यंत्र on अन्य ऑपरेटिंग प्रणालियों , or कार्यशील web-based  games in the built-in web browser .
Subsequent developments in games exploits , such as the `` Twilight hack `` , ``  bannerbomb '' और इसके बाद अवतार `` letterbomb '' , `` तोड़ स्टेक '' , `` इंडियाना pwns '' , `` yu-gi-owned  '' , `` bathaxx '' , and `` Return of the Jodi '' , made installing the `` Homebrew Channel `` possible .
Hadley ( right ) discussing  the 2006 israel-lebanon  crisis with Bush and Rice .
Stephen John Hadley ( born February 13 , 1947 ) was the 21st U.S. Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs ( commonly  referred as नेशनल सुरक्षा सलाहकार ) , सेवारत अंतर्गत अध्यक्ष जार्ज W. बुश  .
Take identical growing plants and give  उर्वरक to हाफ of उन्हें  .
If there are differences between the  निषेचित संयंत्र समूह और the unfertilized `` कंट्रोल '' समूह  , these differences may be due to the fertilizer .
A scientific control is an experiment or observation designed to minimize the effects of variables other than the  सिंगल स्वतंत्र परिवर्तनीय  .
This increases the reliability of the results ,  प्रायः through a तुलना between कंट्रोल माप  and the other measurements .
Scientific  नियंत्रण हैं a  part of the scientific method .
For example , during drug testing , scientists  होगा कोशिश to कंट्रोल दो समूह to रखना उन्हें as एकसमान  as possible , then allow one group to try the drug .
Another example might be testing plant  उर्वरक by giving it to तभी हाफ the पौधे in a गार्डन : the पौधे कि प्राप्त no उर्वरक  are the control group , because they establish the baseline level of growth that the fertilizer-treated plants will be compared against .
Without a control group , the experiment can not determine whether  the fertilizer-treated पौधे grow अधिक  than they would have if untreated .
Ideally , all variables in an  प्रयोग होगा be नियंत्रित ( accounted  for by the control measurements ) and none will be uncontrolled .
In such an experiment , if all the controls work as expected , it is possible to  conclude कि the प्रयोग is working as  intended and that the results of the experiment are due to the effect of the variable being tested .
That is ,  वैज्ञानिक नियंत्रण allow an अन्वेषक  to make a claim like `` Two situations were identical until factor X occurred .
चूंकि फ़ैक्टर x is the तभी अंतर between the दो  situations , the new outcome was caused by factor X . ''
< <  रासायनिक तत्व  data references
John Adams ( October 30 , 1735 ( O.S  . अक्तूबर 19 , 1735 ) – जुलाई 4 , 1826 ) थी  the second president of the United States ( 1797–1801 ) , having earlier served as the first vice president of the United States .
An  अमरीकी founding पिता , he थी  a statesman , diplomat , and a leading advocate of American independence from Great Britain .
Well educated , he was an Enlightenment  राजनैतिक theorist जो प्रचारित republicanism और लिखा prolifically परिचय उसके प्रायः  seminal ideas , both in published works and in letters to his wife and key adviser Abigail as well as to other Founding Fathers .
एडम्स आए to prominence in the जल्दी  stages of the American Revolution .
A lawyer and public figure in Boston , as a delegate from Massachusetts to the Continental  कॉंग्रेस , he निभाई a अग्रणी भूमिका in persuading  Congress to declare independence .
He assisted Thomas Jefferson in  drafting the घोषणा of स्वतंत्रता in 1776 , और थी इसके  primary advocate in the Congress .
Later ,  as a राजनयिक in यूरोपीय , he helped negotiate the eventual  peace treaty with Great Britain , and was responsible for obtaining vital governmental loans from Amsterdam bankers .
A political theorist and  इतिहासकार , एडम्स largely लिखा the मैसाचुसेट्स संविधान  in 1780 , which together with his earlier Thoughts on Government , influenced American political thought .
One of his greatest roles was as a judge of character : in 1775 , he nominated George Washington to be commander-in-chief , and 25  सालो बाद मनोनीत जॉन मार्शल to be मुख्य इंसाफ of the  United States .
Adams ' revolutionary credentials  secured उसे दो शर्तें as जार्ज वॉशिंगटन  's vice president and his own election in 1796 as the second president .
During his one term , he encountered ferocious attacks by the Jeffersonian  republicans , as खूब as the प्रबल  faction in his own Federalist Party led by his bitter enemy Alexander Hamilton .
Adams signed the controversial  एलियन और राजद्रोह अधिनियमों , और निर्मित up the फौज और नेवी विशेषकर in  the face of an undeclared naval war ( called the `` Quasi-War `` ) with France , 1798–1800 .
The major accomplishment of his presidency was his peaceful  रेज़ोल्यूशन of the विरोध in the फेस of हैमिल्टन  's opposition .
In 1800 , Adams was  पराजित लिये re-election by थामस  Jefferson and retired to Massachusetts .
He later resumed his  दोस्ती  with Jefferson .
He and his wife , Abigail Adams , founded an accomplished family line of  राजनेता , राजनयिकों , और इतिहासकारों अभी referred to as the एडम्स राजनैतिक  family .
Adams was the  पिता of जॉन क्विंसी एडम्स , the  sixth President of the United States .
His achievements have received greater  मान्यता in आधुनिक टाइम्स , हालांकि उसके योगदान  were not initially as celebrated as those of other Founders .
Adams was the first U.S. president to reside  in the भवन कि आखिरकार became ज्ञात  as the White House .
A  वाट भाप इंजन  .
The steam engine ,  fuelled primarily by कोयले , propelled the औद्योगिक  Revolution in Great Britain and the world .
The Industrial Revolution was the transition to new manufacturing processes that occurred in the  काल इससे परिचय 1760 to कुछ समय between 1820 और 1840 .
This transition included going from hand  उत्पादन विधि to मशीने ,  new chemical manufacturing and iron production processes , improved efficiency of water power , the increasing use of steam power and development of machine tools .
The transition also included the change from wood  और अन्य bio-fuels to कोयले  .
The Industrial revolution began in Britain and  भीतर a few दशकों स्प्रेड to  Western Europe and the United States .
The Industrial Revolution marks a major turning point in  इतिहास ; लगभग प्रत्येक  aspect of daily life was influenced in some way .
Most notably , average income and population began to  प्रदर्शनी unprecedented  sustained growth .
In the words of Nobel Prize winner Robert E. Lucas , Jr. , `` For the first time in history , the living standards of the masses of ordinary people have begun to undergo sustained growth ...  nothing remotely जैसे इस आर्थिक बर्ताव is उल्लेखित by the शास्त्रीय अर्थशास्त्रियों , भी  as a theoretical possibility . ''
William  घंटी स्कॉट आयरन और कोयले  , 1855-60
The period of  समय covered by the औद्योगिक  Revolution varies with different historians .
Eric Hobsbawm held that it  'broke आउट ' in ब्रिटेन in the 1780s  and was not fully felt until the 1830s or 1840s , while T. S. Ashton held that it occurred roughly between 1760 and 1830 .
Some 20th-century historians such as John Clapham and Nicholas Crafts have argued that the process of economic and  सोशल बदलें took प्लेस धीरे और the पद क्रान्ति is a misnomer  .
This is still a subject  of बहस among इतिहासकारों  .
GDP per capita was broadly stable before the Industrial  क्रान्ति और the emergence of the आधुनिक  capitalist economy .
The Industrial Revolution began an era of per-capita economic  विकास in पूंजीवादी economies  .
Economic historians are in agreement that the onset of the Industrial Revolution is the most  महत्वपूर्ण इवेंट in the इतिहास of मानवता चूंकि the domestication of पशु  and plants .
The First Industrial Revolution evolved into the Second Industrial Revolution in the  परिवर्तन सालो between 1840 और 1870 , जब technological और आर्थिक प्रगति gained आवेग साथ the increasing  adoption of steam-powered boats , ships and railways , the large scale manufacture of machine tools and the increasing use of steam powered factories .
Juliet AnnMarie Huddy ( born September 27 , 1969 ) , is an American television news  रिपोर्टर , फिलहाल appearing on फॉक्स न्यूज चैनल  .
This  सूची बाँधने u.S. शहरों by  land area ( not including bodies of water ) .
Total areas ( including water ) are also given , but note that , when  क्रमित by कुल क्षेत्रफल , a क्रमांक of तटीय शहरों appear  disproportionately `` larger '' .
San Francisco is an extreme example ; water makes up nearly 80 %  of इसके कुल क्षेत्रफल of 232 वर्गाकार  miles ( 601 km2 ) .
Note also that in many cases a city may be geographically large primarily  क्युकी इसके नगरपालिका सरकारी रै मिलाया साथ the सरकारी  of the surrounding county .
In some cases the county no longer exists , while in others the arrangement has  formed a संचित city–county ( or city- बरो in अलास्का , or city-  parish in Louisiana ) .
These are shown in bold in the list below ( but not all  उदाहरण may be indicated  ) .
** These are independent cities ,  अर्थ वे हैं नहीं a  part of any county .
The large intestine  ( or bowel , कोलन ) is the पिछला भाग  of the digestive system in vertebrate animals .
Its function is to absorb water from the  बाकी indigestible खाना पदार्थ , और तब to pass  useless waste material from the body .
This article is primarily about  the इंसान आंत , हालांकि the सूचना  about its processes are directly applicable to most mammals .
The large  आंत consists of  the cecum , rectum and anal canal .
It starts in the right iliac region of the pelvis , just at or below the  सही कमर , जहाँ it is joined to the नीचे समाप्त of the छोटी  intestine .
From here  it continues up the उदर , तब आरपार the चौडाई of the  abdominal cavity , and then it turns down , continuing to its endpoint at the anus .
The large intestine  is परिचय long , जिससे is परिचय one-fifth  of the whole length of the intestinal canal .
In Terminologia Anatomica the large intestine  शामिल the cecum  , colon , rectum , and anal canal .
However , some  स्त्रोत exclude the गुदा  canal .
The Green Bay Packers are an  अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल  team based in Green Bay , Wisconsin .
They are members of the  उत्तर प्रभाग of the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल सम्मेलन  ( NFC ) in the National Football League ( NFL ) .
Green Bay is the  third-oldest मताधिकार in the एनएफएल , having  been organized and playing in 1919 .
The  पैकर्स हैं the तभी non-profit , community-owned  major league professional sports team in the United States .
The Packers are the last  vestige of `` छोटी कस्बा टीमों  '' that were once common in the NFL during the 1920s and 1930s .
Founded in 1919 by Earl `` Curly ''  lambeau ( hence the नाम lambeau फ़ील्ड on जिससे the टोली plays ) और जार्ज  Whitney Calhoun , the Green Bay Packers can trace their lineage to other semi-professional teams in Green Bay dating back to 1896 .
In 1919 and 1920 the Packers competed as a semi-professional football team against  क्लब इससे around विस्कॉन्सिन और  the Midwest .
They joined the American Professional Football Association ( APFA  ) in 1921 , the forerunner to कया  is known today as the National Football League ( NFL ) .
Although Green Bay is the last  एनएफएल `` छोटी कस्बा ''  team , its local fan base and media extends into nearby Milwaukee ; the team also played selected home games there between 1933 and 1994 .
The Green Bay Packers have won 13 league championships ( more than any other team in the NFL ) , including nine NFL championships prior to the Super Bowl era and four Super Bowl  victories —in 1967 ( सुपर कटोरी i ) , 1968 ( सुपर कटोरी ii ) , 1997 ( सुपर कटोरी xxxi ) और 2011 ( सुपर कटोरी xlv )  .
The Packers have long-standing , bitter rivalries with their NFC North ( formerly the NFC Central )  प्रतिद्वंद्वियों , the शिकागो bears , मिनेसोटा वाइकिंग्स  and the Detroit Lions .
the bears-packers फंसने is एक of the  oldest rivalries in NFL history , dating back to 1921 .
The  सैन फर्नांडो घाटी ( locally ज्ञात as `` the घाटी '' ) is  an urbanized valley located in the Los Angeles metropolitan area of southern California , United States , defined by the mountains of the Transverse Ranges circling it .
Home to 1.76  लाख लोगों , it झूठ उत्तर of the  larger and more populous Los Angeles Basin .
Nearly two  तिहाई of the घाटी  's land area is part of the City of Los Angeles .
The other incorporated cities in the valley are  ग्लेनडेल , burbank , सैन फर्नांडो , छुपा  Hills and Calabasas .
सैन फर्नांडो  Valley , Los Angeles
The exterior  of the वर्तमान संसार  of Coca-Cola at Pemberton Place .
The World of Coca-Cola , is a permanent exhibition  featuring the इतिहास of the coca-cola  Company .
Its well-known advertising as well as a host of  entertainment क्षेत्रों और आकर्षण , और is स्तिथ in अटलांटा , जॉर्जिया ( जहाँ the  company 's headquarters are located ) at Pemberton Place ( named in honor of John Pemberton , the inventor of Coca-Cola ) .
as  भाग of जॉर्जिया  's museums .
the जटिल स्तिथ आरपार बेकर गली इससे centennial  Olympic Park that is home to the Georgia Aquarium and future Center for Civil & Human Rights .
It  खोली to the पब्लिक on may 24 , 2007 , relocating  from and replacing the original exhibit .
Pretties is a 2005  विज्ञान fiction अनोखा और the दूसरी किताब of the  Uglies Trilogy written by Scott Westerfeld .
It is set  in a भविष्य dystopian संसार  in which everyone is turned `` Pretty '' by extreme cosmetic surgery upon reaching age 16 .
It tells the story of teenager Tally Youngblood who  विद्रोहियों विरूद्ध समाज 's enforced  conformity .
Susan Leigh Vaughan Smith ( born September 26 , 1971 ) is an  अमरीकी स्त्री sentenced to जीवन in थाना  for murdering her children .
Born in Union , South Carolina , and a former student of the University of South Carolina Union , she was convicted on July 22 , 1995 for  murdering उसके दो बेटे , 3-year-old माइकल डेनियल  Smith , born October 10 , 1991 , and 14-month-old Alexander Tyler Smith , born August 5 , 1993 .
The case gained worldwide attention shortly after it  विकसित , due to उसके claiming कि a  black man stole her car and kidnapped her sons .
She later claimed that  वो suffered इससे दिमागी स्वास्थ्य मुद्दे  that impaired her judgment .
According to the South Carolina Department of Corrections , Smith will be  योग्य लिये पैरोल on  November 4 , 2024 , after serving a minimum of thirty years .
She is incarcerated at South Carolina 's Leath  correctional संस्था , निकट greenwood  .
Mount McKinley ( also known as Denali  लिया इससे the इनुइट koyukon athabaskan भाषा अर्थ `` the ग्रेट एक '' ) is the  highest mountain peak in the United States and in North America with a summit elevation of above sea level .
At some , the base to peak rise is considered the largest of any mountain  situated entirely ऊपर समुद्र स्तर  .
measured by स्थलाकृतिक prominence , it is the तीसरा सबसे  prominent peak after Mount Everest and Aconcagua .
Located in the Alaska Range in the interior of US state of Alaska , it is the  centerpiece of denali नेशनल पार्क  and Preserve .
The first European to  दस्तावेज़ sighting the पहाड़ थी जार्ज वैंकूवर  in 1794 .
In 1903 , James Wickersham  अंकित the पहला attempt at चढ़ाई  McKinley which was unsuccessful .
in 1906 , फ्रेडरिक  Cook claimed the first ascent which was later proven to be false .
The first verifiable ascent to McKinley 's summit was achieved on June 7 , 1913 by climbers  हडसन stuck , हैरी karstens , वाल्टर  Harper , and Robert Tatum .
In 1951 , Bradford  washburn pioneered the वेस्ट buttress रूट  considered to be the safest and easiest route and therefore the most popular currently in use .
The Honda S600 is an  ऑटोमोबाइल manufactured by  Honda .
It was  शुभारम्भ in कूच  1964 .
Available as a roadster – bearing strong resemblance to the Honda S500 – and as a fastback coupé – introduced in March 1965  – the s600 थी the पहला होंडा उपलब्धियाँ in दो trim स्तर  .
During its production run up to 1966 , the model styling would remain pretty much the same , with the most notable changes coming to the front grille  , बम्पर , और headlights  .
Powered by a DOHC , water-cooled , four-cylinder inline engine with four carburetors , the engine  क्षमता थी increased to 606 cc इससे the s500  's 531 cc .
The engine produced at 8,500 rpm  और था a शीर्ष गति  of .
With the convertible weighing in at mere , the extra sheet metal of the coupe only  added to the overall वज़न  .
Suspension was  स्वतंत्र साथ sealed रोलर  chain drive to each rear wheel .
The S600 was  the पहला द्रव्यमान marketed  Honda car .
First offered only in  right-hand ड्राइव , it जल्द became उपलब्धियाँ  in left-hand drive to appeal to export markets .
There were a few pre-production S500s  manufactured in बाएँ हाथ ड्राइव , दो or तीन भी होने दिखाया in कुछ जल्दी  sales brochures .
Both the S600 roadster and coupé were available in standard trim and a special , upgraded package called the SM600 which included , among other items , special paint colors , exclusive badging , a  मानक रेडियो और स्पीकर , a खास एंटीना in the यात्री पक्ष सूर्य छज्जा , मानक  reversing lights , a standard cigarette lighter , a standard heater , better cushioned seats , and a detachable seat track for quick removal of the passenger seat .
Honda built 3,912 roadsters in 1964 , with  उत्पादन चढ़ाई to 7,261  convertibles and 1,519 coupes in 1965 .
Production dropped off in 1966 ( as they were shifting to  the s800 ) साथ तभी 111 roadsters और 281 coupes , giving  tallies of 11,284 convertibles and 1,800 coupes for the 3 year span .
Everybody Hates Chris is an American television period sitcom that depicts the teenage experiences of comedian Chris Rock ( who is also the narrator ) while growing  up in the bedford-stuyvesant पड़ोस of  Brooklyn , New York .
The show  is नियत between 1983 और 1987 ;  however , Rock himself was a teenager between 1978 and 1983 .
Rock grew up with a  लड़के नामित केनी montero , जिसको he रै प्रायः referred to  as the inspiration for a lot of the episodes .
in अनेक साक्षात्कार , चट्टान रै  described Kenny as the reason he got into comedy in the first place .
The show 's  शीर्षक parodies the सीबीएस  sitcom Everybody Loves Raymond .
Rock stated : `` Everybody Loves Raymond but  everybody hates क्रिस  ! `` .
The show 's lead actors are Tyler James  विलियम्स , टेरी क्रू , tichina अर्नाल्ड , tequan रिचमंड , imani  Hakim , and Vincent Martella .
In Fall 2008 , the The CW moved Everybody Hates Chris and  the खेल to the शुक्रवार रात्रि मौत  slot .
The fourth season of the series premiered Friday , October 3 ,  2008 , at 8:00pm eastern/7:00pm सेंट्रल  .
On May 21 , 2009 , The CW announced that it had  रद्द everybody hates क्रिस  .
Prior to this , executive producer Chris  चट्टान घोषित कि the समाप्त of ऋतु  4 matched up with his own past—dropping out of high school to become a comedian—and that it was time to end the show .
Pleural effusion is excess fluid that accumulates between  the दो pleural परतों , the fluid-filled स्पेस कि  surrounds the lungs .
Excessive amounts of such fluid can impair breathing by limiting the  विस्तार of the फेफड़े  during ventilation .
Beowulf ( ; in Old English or ) is the conventional title of an Old English heroic epic poem consisting  of 3182 alliterative long लाइनों , नियत in scandinavia , commonly cited as एक of the  most important works of Anglo-Saxon literature .
it survives in a सिंगल  manuscript known as the Nowell Codex .
Its  संयोजन by an बेनाम anglo-saxon कवि  is dated between the 8th and the early 11th century .
In 1731 , the manuscript was badly damaged by a fire that swept through a building housing a collection  of मध्यकालीन पांडुलिपियों समवेत by सर रॉबर्ट ब्रूस कपास  .
The poem fell into obscurity for decades , and its existence did not become widely known  again जबतक it थी मुद्रित in 1815 in an संस्करण prepared by the icelandic-danish विद्वान  Grímur Jónsson Thorkelin .
In the poem , Beowulf , a hero of the Geats  in scandinavia , आता to the सहायता of hroðgar , the किंग  of the Danes , whose mead hall ( in Heorot ) has been under attack by a monster known as Grendel .
After Beowulf slays him , Grendel 's  माँ हमले the हॉल  and is then also defeated .
Victorious , Beowulf goes home  to geatland in स्वीडन  and later becomes king of the Geats .
After a period of fifty years has passed ,  बियोवुल्फ़ defeats a ड्रैगन , लकिन  is fatally wounded in the battle .
After his death , his  सेवकों दफनाने उसे in a tumulus  , a burial mound , in Geatland .
Shem Ham and Japheth by  जेम्स tissot  1904 .
Shem ( ; Sēm ; Arabic : Sām ; Ge'ez : ሴም , Sēm ; `` renown ;  समृद्धि ; नाम '' ) थी एक of the बेटे of  Noah in the Hebrew Bible as well as in Islamic literature .
He is most popularly regarded as the eldest son , though some  परंपराओं लिहाज़ उसे as the दूसरी  son .
Genesis 10:21 refers to relative ages of Shem and his brother Japheth ,  लकिन साथ sufficient ambiguity to have yielded अलग  translations .
The verse is translated in the KJV as `` Unto Shem also , the father of all the children of Eber ,  the bhai of japheth the elder , भी  to him were children born . `` .
However , the New American Standard Bible  देता , `` भी to shem , the पिता of सब the children  of Eber , and the older brother of Japheth , children were born . ''
Genesis 11:10 records that Shem was still 100 years old at the birth of Arphaxad , ( but  nearly 101 - देखिए कालक्रम नोट , ) दो सालो बाद the बाढ़ , बनाना उसे मुश्किल 99 at the  time the flood began ; and that he lived for another 500 years after this , making his age at death 600 years .
The children of Shem were Elam , Asshur , Arphaxad , Lud ,  और aram , in जोड  to daughters .
Abraham , the patriarch of the Hebrews and Arabs ,  थी एक of the  descendants of Arphaxad .
Islamic  साहित्य describes shem as  one of the believing sons of Noah .
Some sources  भी पहचानो shem as a नबी in उसके अपना सही  and that he was the next prophet after his father .
In one Muslim legend , Shem was one of the people that God made  यीशु उठाएगा as a चिह्न to the children of इसराईल  .
The 1st century historian Flavius  josephus , among अनेक अन्य , recounted the परंपरा कि ये पाँच बेटे यहूद  the progenitors of the nations of Elam , Assyria , Chaldea , Lydia , and Syria , respectively .
Semitic is still a commonly used term for the Semitic languages , as a subset of the Afro-Asiatic  भाषाएं , denoting the आम भाषाई विरासत of अरबी , aramaic , अक्कादी , ethiopic , यहूदी और फ़ोनीशियाई भाषाएं  .
According to some Jewish traditions ( e.g. , B. Talmud Nedarim 32b ; Genesis Rabbah 46:7 ; Genesis Rabbah 56:10 ; Leviticus Rabbah 25:6 ; Numbers Rabbah  4:8 . ) , shem is believed to have महरूम melchizedek , किंग of सलेम जिसको अब्राहम is अंकित to have मिले बाद the बैटल of the  four kings .
In a few of the many extra-biblical sources  कि describe उसे ,  Shem is also credited with killing Nimrod , son of Cush .
Shem is mentioned in Genesis 5:32 , 6:10 ; 7:13 ; 9:18,23,26-27 ; 10 ; 11:10 ;  भी in 1 क्रॉनिकल्स 1:4  .
Geographic identifications of Flavius Josephus , c. 100 AD ;  japheth 's बेटे दिखाया in रेड , हैम 's बेटे in ब्लू  , Shem 's sons in green .
Go Daddy or Go Daddy Group Inc. is a  privately आयोजित कम्पनी कि is primarily an  internet domain registrar and web hosting company .
Go Daddy Group Inc. filed for an IPO in 2006 ,  लकिन बाद रद्द it , due to `` मार्केट  uncertainties '' .
In addition to domain registration and hosting Go  पापा भी बिकता e-business सम्बन्धित तन्त्र  and services .
On June 24 , 2011 , The Wall Street Journal reported that private-equity firms KKR and Silver Lake Partners , along  साथ a तीसरा निवेशकों , यहूद nearing a सौदे to ख़रीदे  the company for between $ 2–2.5 billion .
On July 1 , 2011 Go Daddy confirmed that KKR ,  चांदी झील साझेदार और प्रौद्योगिकी क्रॉसओवर ventures था बंद the सौदे .
Although the purchase price was not  officially घोषित it थी reported to be $  2.25 billion , for 65 % of the company .
, Bob Parsons had ceded the CEO role of Go Daddy to Warren Adelman , who had  महरूम साथ the कम्पनी लिये परिचय 10  years .
The  andorran कोट of  arms at the Andorran parliament .
Andorra ( ; , ) , officially the Principality of Andorra ( ) , also  पुकारा the principality of the घाटियों of अंडोरा , ( ) , is a landlocked microstate in southwestern यूरोपीय , स्तिथ in the  eastern Pyrenees mountains and bordered by Spain and France .
It is the sixth  smallest स्वदेश in यूरोपीय , having an क्षेत्रफल of और an  estimated population of 85,000 in 2012 .
Its capital , Andorra la  वेला , is the उच्चतम पूंजी नगर in यूरोपीय  , at an elevation of above sea level .
The official language is Catalan ,  हालांकि स्पेनी , पुर्तगाली , और फ्रेंच हैं भी commonly  spoken .
Created under a charter in 988 , the  उपस्थित principality थी  formed in 1278 .
It is known as a  principality as it is a साम्राज्य headed  by two co-princes – the Bishop of Urgell and the President of France .
Andorra is a prosperous country mainly because of its tourism industry , which services an estimated 10.2 million  विज़िटर annually , और भी क्युकी of इसके  status as a tax haven .
It is not a member of the European Union , but the euro is the de  facto करेंसी .
The people of Andorra have the 4th highest human life expectancy in  the संसार  — 82 years at birth .
The  जार्ज वॉशिंगटन विश्वविद्यालयों ( gw  , GWU , or George Washington ) is a comprehensive private , coeducational research university located in Washington , D.C. .
It awards  प्रमाणपत्र , स्नातक  degrees , Masters degrees , and PhDs across several dozen disciplines .
The university was chartered by an Act of Congress on  फ़रवरी 9 , 1821 as the columbian कॉलेज in  the District of Columbia .
Kimberly  नोएल `` किम '' कार्दशियन ( born  October 21 , 1980 ) is an American socialite , television personality and occasional actress .
In 2007 , she gained notoriety as the subject of a sex tape that subsequently resulted in a court awarding  उसके $ 5 लाख ; बाद in कि वही साल , वो और उसके  family rose to prominence with their E !
reality television series Keeping Up with the Kardashians ,  और इसके subsequent spin-offs , सहित कोर्टनी  and Kim Take New York and Kourtney and Kim Take Miami .
In 2010 , Kardashian  थी the highest-earning वास्तविकता  star , with estimated earnings of $ 6 million .
With sisters Kourtney and Khloé ,  कार्दशियन co-owns the फ़ैशन बुटीक कड़ी  D-A-S-H .
She has been involved in the  उत्पादन of अनेक लाइनों of कपडे  and fragrances .
In August 2011 , Kardashian married basketball player Kris Humphries in a  widely publicized रस्म .
That October , Kardashian filed for divorce  following 72 दिनों of विवाह .
The move garnered significant backlash from the media ,  जो labeled it a `` publicity  stunt '' .
After 536 days , Kardashian  और humphries पहुँचे an अघोषित उपनिवेश at the लॉस एंजिल्स  Superior Court , finalizing the divorce in April 2013 .
Aerial  दृश्य of oahu साथ freeways और राजमार्गों  , 3D computer-generated image
fly-around  tour of the island
Oahu ( ) or Oahu , known as `` The Gathering Place '' , is the  तीसरा largest of the हवाई आइलैंड्स और the सबसे  populous of the islands in the U.S. state of Hawaii .
The state capital , Honolulu  , is on oahu 's southeast  coast .
Including small close-in offshore islands such as Ford Island and the islands in  kaneohe खाड़ी और बंद the पूर्वी ( windward ) coast , it रै a कुल जमीन  area of , making it the 20th largest island in the United States .
In the greatest dimension ,  इस volcanic द्वीप is long  and across .
The  लंबाई of the  shoreline is .
The island is the result of two  पृथक शील्ड ज्वालामुखी : waianae और koolau , साथ a व्यापक `` घाटी ''  or saddle ( the central Oahu Plain ) between them .
The highest point is Mt  . ka'ala in the  Waianae Range , rising to above sea level .
The base currency  of the संयुक्त राज्य is the u.S. डालर , और is मुद्रित on  bills in denominations of $ 1 , $ 2 , $ 5 , $ 10 , $ 20 , $ 50 , and $ 100 .
At one time , however , U.S. currency  शामिल  five larger denominations .
Notes in the denominations of $ 500 , $ 1,000 , $ 5,000 , and $ 10,000 were printed for general use , and a $ 100,000  नोट थी मुद्रित लिये निश्चित आतंरिक ट्रांजेक्शन  .
British  होंडुरास थी a अंग्रेजों  colony in Central America .
In 1981 , the colony gained full  स्वतंत्रता , और is अभी the स्वतंत्र स्वदेश of बेलीज़  .
First colonised by Spaniards in the  17th सदी , the territory on the ईस्ट coast  of Central America , south of Mexico , became a British crown colony in 1862 .
In 1964 , it  became a self-governing  colony .
बेलीज़ became fully स्वतंत्र  from the United Kingdom in 1981 .
Belize was the last  महाद्वीपीय कब्ज़ा  of the United Kingdom in the Americas .
Spelt , also known as dinkel wheat , or hulled wheat ,  is an प्राचीन प्रजाति of गेहूं इससे the  fifth millennium BC .
Spelt was an important staple in parts of Europe from the  कांस्य आयु to मध्यकालीन टाइम्स ; it अभी survives as a relict क्रॉप  in Central Europe and northern Spain and has found a new market as a health food .
Spelt is  sometimes माना a subspecies of the closely सम्बन्धित प्रजाति  common wheat ( T. aestivum ) , in which case its botanical name is considered to be Triticum aestivum subsp . spelta .
It is a hexaploid wheat , which means it has  छह सेट of गुणसूत्रों  .
Sherlock Holmes ( or  ) is a fictional जासूस निर्मित by लेखक और  physician Sir Arthur Conan Doyle .
A London-based ``  परामर्श जासूस '' जिनकी abilities किनारा on the fantastic , holmes  is famous for his astute logical reasoning , his ability to adopt almost any disguise , and his use of forensic science skills to solve difficult cases .
Holmes , who first appeared in  प्रकाशन in 1887 , थी प्रदर्शित in चार novels  and 56 short stories .
The first novel , A Study in Scarlet , appeared in Beeton  's क्रिसमस सालाना in 1887 और the दूसरी  , The Sign of the Four , in Lippincott 's Monthly Magazine in 1890 .
The character grew tremendously in  लोकप्रियता साथ the पहला श्रेणी of छोटी कहानियां in the strand पत्रिका , शुरूआत  with A Scandal in Bohemia in 1891 ; further series of short stories and two novels published in serial form appeared between then and 1927 .
The stories cover a  काल इससे around  1880 up to 1914 .
All but four stories are narrated by Holmes 's  dost और biographer , dr. जॉन H. वाटसन ; दो हैं narrated by holmes खुद ( `` the blanched सिपाही `` और `` the शेर 's माने `` ) और दो अन्य हैं लिखा  in the third person ( `` The Mazarin Stone `` and `` His Last Bow `` ) .
In two stories (  `` the musgrave अनुष्ठान ``  and `` The Gloria Scott `` ) , Holmes tells Watson the main story from his memories , while Watson becomes the narrator of the frame story .
The first and fourth novels , A Study in Scarlet and The  घाटी of भय , प्रत्येक शामिल a long अंतराल of सर्वज्ञ narration recounting  events unknown to either Holmes or Watson .
The United States House of Representatives is one  of the दो घरों of the संयुक्त राज्य कॉंग्रेस  ( a bicameral legislature ) .
It is frequently referred  to as the  House .
The  अन्य हाउस is  the Senate .
The  संयोजन और शक्तियां of the हाउस हैं स्थापित in  Article One of the United States Constitution .
The major power of the House is to pass federal  विधान कि affects the संपूर्ण देश हालांकि इसके बिल्स जरूर भी be passed  by the Senate and further agreed to by the U.S. President before becoming law ( unless both the House and Senate re-pass the legislation with a two-thirds majority in each chamber ) .
The House has several exclusive powers : the power  to initiate आय बिल्स , to impeach officials , और to elect the u.S. अध्यक्ष  in case there is no majority in the Electoral College .
Each U.S. state is represented in the  हाउस in proportion to इसके  population but is entitled to at least one representative .
The most populous state , California ,  फिलहाल रै 53 प्रतिनिधि  .
The total number of voting  प्रतिनिधि is फिक्स्ड by विधि at 435  .
प्रत्येक प्रतिनिधि serves  for a two-year term .
The Speaker of the United States House of Representatives , who  presides over the कक्ष , is निर्वाचित by the सदस्यों of the हाउस ,  and is therefore traditionally the leader of the House Democratic Caucus or the House Republican Conference , whichever party has more voting members .
The House meets in the south wing of  the संयुक्त राज्य कैपिटल  .
jell-o is a ब्रांड नाम belonging to u.s.-based kraft भोजन लिये a क्रमांक of जिलेटिन  desserts , including fruit gels , puddings and no-bake cream pies .
The brand 's popularity has led to it being used as a generic  पद लिये जिलेटिन मिठाई आरपार the u.S.  and Canada .
Kennywood is an amusement park located in West Mifflin ,  पेन्सिलवेनिया , a उपनगरीय of पिट्सबर्ग  .
The park first opened in 1898 as a `` trolley park '' attraction at the end of  the mellon परिवार 's monongahela गली रेल  .
The park was purchased in 1906 by F. W.  henninger और एंड्रयू mcswigan और यूँ began  the Kennywood Entertainment company that has remained a closely held family business for over 100 years .
This traditional amusement park still has structures and rides dating back to its opening  और the जल्दी 1900s  .
Along with  rye playland पार्क , it is एक of तभी दो मनोरंजन  parks listed in the National Register of Historic Places .
Kennywood is owned  by kennywood entertainment कम्पनी , जिससे जबतक दिसम्बर 2007 थी a closely  held family business owned by the Henninger and McSwigan families .
Kennywood Entertainment is now operated by California-based Palace Entertainment , a subsidiary  of parques reunidos , an अंतरराष्ट्रीय मनोरंजन  park company based in Madrid , Spain .
Parque Reunidos is in turn  a subsidiary of candover  Investments , an investment fund based in the UK .
A Social Security card issued by the  रेलरोड रिटायरमेंट फलक in 1943 to a अभी  deceased person .
In the United States , a Social Security number ( SSN ) is a nine-digit number issued to U.S. citizens , permanent residents , and temporary (  working ) निवासियों अंतर्गत खण्ड 205 ( c ) ( 2 ) of the सोशल सुरक्षा अधिनियम , संहिताबद्ध as  .
The number is issued to an  व्यक्तिगत by the सोशल सुरक्षा प्रशासन , an स्वतंत्र  agency of the United States government .
Its primary purpose is to  track individuals  for Social Security purposes .
A Social Security number may be obtained by applying  on रूप ss-5  , `` Application for A Social Security Number Card '' .
Minimalism describes movements in various forms of art and design  , विशेषकर विज़ुअल आर्ट और म्यूज़िक , जहाँ the कार्य is नियत आउट to expose the essence or पहचान of a विषय through  eliminating all non-essential forms , features or concepts .
Minimalism is any design or style in  जिससे the सरलतम और fewest तत्व  are used to create the maximum effect .
As a specific movement in the arts it is identified with developments in post–World War II Western  आर्ट , सबसे strongly  with American visual arts in the 1960s and early 1970s .
Prominent artists associated with this movement include Donald Judd , John McCracken , Agnes Martin  , डान flavin , रॉबर्ट मॉरिस , ऐनी truitt  , and Frank Stella .
It is rooted in the reductive aspects of  modernism  , and is often interpreted as a reaction against Abstract expressionism and a bridge to Postminimal art practices .
The terms have expanded to encompass a movement in music which features repetition and iteration , as in the  रचनाएं of la मोंटे यंग , टेरी रिले , स्टीव reich , फिलिप कांच , और जॉन  Adams .
Minimalist  रचनाएं हैं sometimes ज्ञात  as systems music .
The term `` minimalist '' is often applied  colloquially to designate anything  that is spare or stripped to its essentials .
It has also been used to describe the plays and novels of Samuel Beckett , the films of Robert Bresson , the stories of  रेमंड carver , और भी  the automobile designs of Colin Chapman .
The word was first used in English in the early  20th सदी to describe the  Mensheviks .
In chemistry and physics , Dalton 's  विधि ( भी पुकारा डाल्टन 's विधि of आंशिक pressures )  states that the total pressure exerted by the mixture of non-reactive gases is equal to the sum of the partial pressures of individual gases .
This empirical law was observed by John  डाल्टन in 1801 और is सम्बन्धित to the  ideal gas laws .
Mathematically , the pressure of a mixture of gases  can be पारिभाषित as the संकलन
or
where  represent the आंशिक दबाव  of each component .
it is assumed कि the  gases do not react with each other
where is the mole fraction of the i-th  घटक in the कुल मिश्रण  of n components .
the संबंध नीचे provides a रास्ता to determine  the volume based concentration of any individual gaseous component
where is the  विशेषज्ञता of the i-th  component expressed in ppm .
Dalton 's  विधि is नहीं exactly  followed by real gases .
Those  deviations हैं considerably  large at high pressures .
In such conditions , the volume occupied  by the अणुओं can become significant compared to the फ़्री स्पेस  between them .
In particular , the short average  दूरियाँ between अणुओं उठाता the तीव्रता of intermolecular शक्तियां between गैस अणुओं पर्याप्त to substantially  change the pressure exerted by them .
Neither of those effects are  माना by the आदर्श गैस मॉडल  .
This is a list of the  largest संयुक्त राज्य कॉलेजों और विश्वविद्यालयों by नामांकन  for colleges and universities in the United States .
What  इस सूची शामिलs:
कॉलेजों और  universities within the United States
University systems if the system is run  अंतर्गत a सिंगल  administration
Enrollment  is the योग of the headcount  of undergraduate and graduate students
Enrollment is counted by the Integrated  post-secondary शिक्षा प्रणाली भीतर  the U.S. Department of Education .
Enrollment is the 12-month  unduplicated headcount , indicating the क्रमांक of अद्वितीय  students who attended the university during the year .
What this list does not  include:
Any indication of how many of the enrolled students are full or part time ( e.g. , some  विश्वविद्यालयों may have a ऊँची नामांकन , लकिन have सबसे विद्यार्थी नामांकित in तभी a  single class )
For other  सूचियाँ कि माप विश्वविद्यालयों नामांकन ,  see the See Also section below .
`` Right Round '' is a  सोंग performed by अमरीकी rapper flo rida , released as the सीसे  single from his second studio album , R.O.O.T.S . ( 2009 ) .
The song  सुविधाएँ अतिथि  vocals from Kesha .
It was released to radio on  27 जनवरी 2009 और थी  digitally released on 10 February by Poe Boy Entertainment and Atlantic Records .
The song lyrically speaks of Flo  rida 's जाल बॉल रेफरी enthusiasm , जबकि  adapting the chorus of the 1984 Dead or Alive song `` You Spin Me Round ( Like a Record ) `` in its hook .
According to one of the song 's writers ,  the कोरस refers to  oral sex .
Kesha contributed  अतिथि vocals to the सोंग , लकिन in the संयुक्त राज्य  , during the run atop the chart , Kesha was uncredited .
The song received mostly negative reviews from critics , who  claimed it थी kitsch और  misogynistic .
However , it was a commercial success , reaching the top ten  of the चार्ट in उन्नीस  countries worldwide .
In the United States , it became Flo Rida 's second number-one single and broke the record for  first-week बिक्री जब it थी released to डिजिटल रिटेलर  .
The single 's accompanying music video was directed by Malcolm Jones and  मनोनीत लिये an एमटीवी वीडियो म्यूज़िक  Award .
The song  रै महरूम प्रयुक्त in अनेक फिल्मों , ऐसे as the hangover  , The Ugly Truth and the Telugu movie Pilla Zamindar .
In the movie Pitch Perfect , the  सोंग is performed by the a cappella  group the Treblemakers .
The Chief Justice of the United States is the head of the United States federal court system ( the judicial branch of the federal  सरकारी of the संयुक्त राज्य ) और the मुख्य न्यायधीश of the परम्  Court of the United States .
The Chief Justice is one of  नौ परम् अदालत justices ; the अन्य आठ हैं the संबद्ध  Justices of the Supreme Court of the United States .
From 1789  जबतक 1866 , the दफ्तर  was known as the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court .
The Chief Justice is the highest judicial officer in the country , and acts as a chief administrative officer for the federal courts and as  सिर of the न्यायिक सम्मेलन of the संयुक्त राज्य appoints  the director of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts .
The  मुख्य इंसाफ  also serves as a spokesperson for the judicial branch .
The Chief Justice  लीड the कारोबार of  the Supreme Court .
He presides over oral arguments before the  अदालत .
When the court renders an opinion , the Chief Justice—when in the  majority—decides जो writes  the court 's opinion .
The Chief Justice also has significant agenda-setting  शक्ति over the अदालत 's बैठक  .
In the case of an impeachment of a President of the United States , which has  occurred twice , the मुख्य इंसाफ presides over the विचारण  in the Senate .
In modern tradition , the Chief  इंसाफ रै the ceremonial  duty of administering the oath of office of the President of the United States .
The first Chief  इंसाफ थी जॉन jay  .
The 17th and current  मुख्य इंसाफ is जॉन G.  Roberts , Jr .
Caribou  निकट prudhoe खाड़ी  , 1973
Prudhoe Bay Oil Field is a large oil  फ़ील्ड on अलास्का 's  North Slope .
It is the largest oil field in both the United States and in North  अमेरिका , covering और originally containing  approximately of oil .
The amount of recoverable oil in the field is more than  दोगुना कि of the अगला largest  field in the United States , the East Texas oil field .
The field is operated by BP ; partners are ExxonMobil and  conocophillips  Alaska .
Labor unions are legally  पहचाना as प्रतिनिधि of मजदूर in अनेक उद्योग  in the United States .
Their activity today centers on collective bargaining over wages , benefits ,  और working शर्तें लिये उनके सदस्यता , और on representing उनके सदस्यों in विवादों  with management over violations of contract provisions .
Larger unions also typically engage in lobbying activities and  electioneering at the राज्य और संघीय स्तर  .
Most unions in America are aligned with one of two larger umbrella organizations  : the afl-cio निर्मित in 1955 , और the बदलें to जीत संघ जिससे विभाजित इससे  the AFL-CIO in 2005 .
Both advocate  नीतियों और विधान on निमित्त of मजदूर in the  United States and Canada , and take an active role in politics .
the afl-cio is विशेषकर चिंतित  with global trade issues .
In 2010 , the percentage of workers belonging to a union in the United States ( or total labor union `` density '' ) was 11.4 % ,  compared to 18.4 % in जर्मनी , 27.5 % in कनाडा , और  70 % in Finland .
संघ सदस्यता in the निजी  sector has fallen under 7 % — levels not seen since 1932 .
Unions allege that employer-incited opposition  रै contributed to इस मनाही in सदस्यता  .
The most prominent  संघ हैं among पब्लिक सेक्टर  employees such as teachers and police .
Members of unions are  disproportionately पुरानी , पुरूष और  residents of the Northeast , the Midwest , and California .
Union workers average 10-30 % higher pay than non-union in America after controlling for individual , job ,  और मजदूर मार्केट विशेषताएँ  .
Although much smaller compared to their peak membership in the 1950s , American unions remain a prominent political factor , both through mobilization of their own memberships and through coalitions with  like-minded activist संगठन around मुद्दे ऐसे as अप्रवासी अधिकारों , व्यापार नीति , स्वास्थ्य परवाह , और जीना मजदूरी  campaigns .
To fight alleged employer anti-union programs , unions are currently advocating new `` card check `` federal legislation that would require employers to bargain with a union if  अधिक than 50 % of मजदूर हस्ताक्षरित फ़ॉर्म , or `` ताश , '' stating  they wish to be represented by that union .
The current procedure  involves प्रतीक्षारत 45 to 90 दिनों लिये a federally पर्यवेक्षित  secret-ballot employee referendum on the subject .
The economist Joseph Stiglitz has asserted that , `` Strong unions  have helped to reduce असमानता , whereas weaker  unions have made it easier for CEOs , sometimes working with market forces that they have helped shape , to increase it . ''
The  मनाही in unionization चूंकि wwii in the संयुक्त राज्य  has been associated with a pronounced rise in income and wealth inequality .
A Christian Lacroix  फ़ैशन  boutique
A boutique is a small shopping  आउटलेट , विशेषकर एक कि  specializes in elite and fashionable items such as clothing and jewelry .
The word  is फ्रेंच लिये  `` shop '' , via Latin from Greek ἀποθήκη ( apothēkē ) , `` storehouse '' .
The term entered into everyday English use in the  लेट 1960s जब , लिये a ब्रैड काल , लंदन  was the centre of the fashion trade .
Carnaby Street and the Kings Road were  the फ़ोकस of much मीडिया ध्यान as  home to the most fashionable boutiques of the era .
Now the East of London has been regenerated and more Boutiques pop up in fashionable areas ,  ऐसे as मीनार सेतु सड़क  .
It can also refer to a specialised firm such as a boutique investment  बैंको or बुटीक  law firm .
The word is often used to describe a property in the independent section  of the होटल मार्केट ( ऐसे as the rockwell in लंदन ) in अनुक्रम  to distinguish themselves from larger chains ( such as Hilton Hotels ) .
In such cases the  establishments उद्देश्य to convey the विचार कि  the operation is elite and highly specialised .
In the strictest sense of the word , boutiques would be one-of-a-kind but more generally speaking , some  जंजीरों can be referred to as boutiques if वे specialize  in particular styles .
Recently , the term `` boutique '' has started being applied to normally-mass-market items that are  either niche or उत्पादित  in intentionally small numbers at very high prices .
इस may be referred to as  boutique manufacturing .
For example , before the release of the Wii , a Time Magazine article suggested that Nintendo could become a `` boutique video-game company '' , producing games for niche  ऑडियंस , बल्कि than trying to compete सीधे साथ microsoft  and Sony .
In the traditional luxury- watch industry Scalfaro International is considered as the  precursor in निर्माण और बिक्री of bespoke घड़ियाँ  .
The Swiss company uses a highly flexible boutique manufacturing site  , जिससे allows producing छोटी श्रेणी or भी अद्वितीय  timepieces .
Although some boutiques specialise in hand-made items and other truly one-of-a-kind items ,  अन्य बस उपज t-shirts , स्टिकर , और अन्य फ़ैशन accessories in artificially छोटी  runs and sell them at unusually high prices .
In the  जल्दी 1990s सेलिना प्रारंभ  manufacturing her own line of women 's clothing .
Opening two boutiques  labeled as `` सेलिना इत्यादि . बुटीक  & Salon '' One located in Corpus Christi and one located in San Antonio , Texas .
One was due to  खोलें in monterrey , मैक्सिको , in 1995  but due to her death it was not opened .
Around 1999 the San Antonio  स्थान बंद और the कॉर्पस  Christi location was closed in 2009 .
In late 1990s some European retail traders developed the idea of tailoring a shop towards a  जीवनशैली थीम , in the रूप of `` अवधारणा स्टोर्स '' , जिससे specialised in cross-selling बगैर using  separate departments .
One of the first concept stores was 10 Corso Como in Milan , Italy followed by Colette  in पेरिस और quartier 206 in बर्लिन  .
Several well-known American chains such as Urban Outfitters ,  d-a-s-h , और the गैप , ऑस्ट्रेलियाई कड़ी billabong और ,  though less common , Lord & Taylor adapted to the concept store trend after 2000 .
Navy Federal Credit Union (  or नेवी संघीय ) is a क्रेडिट संघ headquartered in  Vienna , Virginia , chartered and regulated under the authority of the National Credit Union Administration ( NCUA ) of the U.S. federal government .
Navy Federal is the largest  प्राकृतिक सदस्य ( or खुदरा ) क्रेडिट संघ in  the world , both in asset size and in membership .
As of  सितंबर 2012 , नेवी संघीय था over $  50 billion USD in assets , and over 4 million members .
Stevland Hardaway Morris ( born May 13 , 1950 as Stevland Hardaway Judkins ) , known by his stage name Stevie Wonder , is an  अमरीकी सिंगर , songwriter , और multi-instrumentalist , a चाइल्ड prodigy जो विकसित into एक of the सबसे रचनात्मक  musical figures of the late 20th century .
Blind since shortly after birth , Wonder signed with Motown 's Tamla label at the age  of ग्यारह , और continues to perform और रिकार्ड लिये motown to इस दिन  .
Among Wonder 's best known works  हैं singles ऐसे as `` अंधविश्वास `` , ``  Sir Duke `` , `` You Are the Sunshine of My Life `` and `` I Just Called to Say I Love You `` .
Well known albums also include Talking  किताब , innervisions और गीतों in the कुंजी  of Life .
He has recorded more than thirty U.S. top  टेन हिट्स और प्राप्त twenty-two ग्रैमी पुरस्कार , the सबसे  ever awarded to a male solo artist .
Wonder is also noted for his work as an activist for  राजनैतिक कल्याणकारी , सहित उसके 1980 अभियान to मेक  Martin Luther King , Jr. 's birthday a holiday in the United States .
In 2009 , Wonder was named a United  राष्ट्र मेसेंजर of सलाम  .
In 2008 ,  बिलबोर्ड पत्रिका released a सूची of the hot 100 all-time शीर्ष कलाकारों  to celebrate the US singles chart 's fiftieth anniversary , with Wonder at number five .
By popular vote , Stevie was inducted into The SoulMusic Hall of Fame  at soulmusic.com in दिसम्बर 2012  .
Psychosis ( from  the यूनानी ψυχή `` psyche '' , लिये mind/soul , और -ωσις `` -ओएसआईs '' , लिये असामान्य कंडीशन or derangement ) refers to an असामान्य  condition of the mind , and is a generic psychiatric term for a mental state often described as involving a `` loss of contact with reality `` .
लोगों कष्ट इससे मनस्ताप हैं  described as psychotic .
Psychosis is given to the more severe forms of psychiatric disorder , during which  मति और delusions , सकल उत्तेजना or बेहोशी और impaired इनसाइट  may occur .
the पद `` मनस्ताप '' is बहुत व्यापक और can औसत  anything from relatively normal aberrant experiences through to the complex and catatonic expressions of schizophrenia and bipolar type 1 disorder .
Moreover a wide variety of central nervous system diseases , from both external  substances और आतंरिक physiologic बीमारी , can उपज लक्षण  of psychosis .
This led many  पेशेवर to कह कि मनस्ताप is  not specific enough as a diagnostic term .
Despite this , `` psychosis '' is generally given to noticeable deficits in normal behavior ( negative signs ) and more commonly  to विविध प्रकार of मति or delusional मान्यताओं ( e.g . grandiosity  , delusions of persecution ) .
Someone exhibiting very obvious signs may  be वर्णित as `` frankly psychotic '' , whereas एक exhibiting बहुत हल्का  signs could be classified in the category of an `` attenuated psychotic risk syndrome '' .
An excess in dopaminergic signalling is traditionally linked to the positive  लक्षण of मनस्ताप , विशेषकर those of schizophrenia  .
This is thought to occur through a  यांत्रिकी of aberrant salience  of environmental stimuli .
Many antipsychotic drugs accordingly target the dopamine system ; meta-analyses of placebo-controlled trials of these drugs , however , show either no significant difference between drug and placebo , or a very small effect  आकार , suggesting कि the pathophysiology of मनस्ताप is much अधिक जटिल than  an overactive dopamine system .
People experiencing psychosis may  प्रदर्शनी कुछ व्यक्तित्व  changes and thought disorder .
Depending on its severity , this may be accompanied by unusual or bizarre behavior , as  खूब as परेशानी साथ सोशल बातचीत  and impairment in carrying out daily life activities .
General  grievous is a fictional  character in the Star Wars universe .
A recurring antagonist , he is the Supreme Commander of the Confederacy of Independent Systems , a political faction of planetary  प्रणालियों waging युद्ध on the गांगेय गणतंत्र  .
Trained in all seven forms  of lightsaber कॉम्बैट by गिनती dooku , he is a निष्ठुर और शक्तिशाली  warrior devoted to Jedi 's destruction during the Clone Wars .
His acts of wanton  आक्रामकता और ऊँची जेडी देह गिनती होता संकेत the आकाशगंगा  to give him the nickname the Knightslayer .
Though the notorious Jedi slayer was the being in the galaxy during the Clone Wars who had killed the most Jedi in single  कॉम्बैट , he किया नहीं संकोच to भागो इससे लड़ाइयों he knew he होता खोना  .
Statistics  खेल an महत्वपूर्ण भूमिका in summarizing  baseball performance and evaluating players in the sport .
Since the flow of a baseball game has natural breaks to it , and normally players act individually rather  than performing in क्लस्टर , the खेल lends itself to आसान record-keeping और आंकडे  .
Statistics have been kept for professional baseball since the creation  of the नेशनल लीग और अमरीकी लीग , अभी  part of Major League Baseball .
Many statistics are also available from outside of Major League Baseball , from leagues such  as the नेशनल संघ of पेशेवर आधार बॉल खिलाड़ी  and the Negro Leagues .
Dorothea Lange 's Migrant Mother depicts destitute pea pickers in California , centering on Florence Owens Thompson , age 32 , a mother of  सात children , in nipomo , कैलिफ़ोर्निया , कूच 1936  .
USA annual real GDP from 1910–60 , with the years  of the ग्रेट अवसाद ( 1929–1939 ) highlighted  .
The unemployment rate  in the us 1910–1960 ,  with the years of the Great Depression ( 1929–1939 ) highlighted .
The Great Depression was a severe worldwide economic depression  in the दशक preceding संसार युद्ध  II .
The  समय of the ग्रेट अवसाद varied आरपार राष्ट्र , लकिन in सबसे  countries it started in 1930 and lasted until the late 1930s or middle 1940s .
It was the longest ,  सबसे फैली , और deepest  depression of the 20th century .
In the 21st century , the Great Depression is commonly  प्रयुक्त as an उदाहरण of कैसा दूर the संसार  's economy can decline .
The depression originated in the U.S. , after the  पतन in भण्डार कीमतें कि began around सितंबर 4 , 1929 , और became विश्वव्यापी न्यूज साथ the  stock market crash of October 29 , 1929 ( known as Black Tuesday ) .
The Great  अवसाद था विनाशकारी प्रभाव in देशों  rich and poor .
Personal income , tax  आय , profits और कीमतें dropped  , while international trade plunged by more than 50 % .
Unemployment in the U.S. rose to 25 % ,  और in कुछ देशों  rose as high as 33 % .
Cities all around the world were hit  मुश्किल , विशेषकर those निर्भर  on heavy industry .
Construction was virtually halted  in अनेक देशों  .
खेती और ग्रामीण क्षेत्रों suffered  as crop prices fell by approximately 60 % .
Facing plummeting  माँग साथ few वैकल्पिक स्त्रोत of कार्य , क्षेत्रों निर्भर on  primary sector industries such as cash cropping , mining and logging suffered the most .
Some economies started to recover by  the mid-1930s  .
In many  देशों , the ऋणात्मक प्रभाव of the ग्रेट अवसाद  lasted until the end of World War II .
A premature ventricular contraction ( PVC ) , also known as a premature ventricular  जटिल , ventricular असामयिक संकुचन ( or जटिल or देवालय ) ( vpc ) , ventricular  premature beat ( VPB ) , or ventricular extrasystole ( VES ) , is a relatively common event where the heartbeat is initiated by Purkinje fibres in the ventricles rather than by the sinoatrial node , the normal heartbeat initiator .
The electrical events of the heart detected by the  electrocardiogram allow a पीवीसी to be easily विशिष्ट  from a normal heart beat .
A  पीवीसी may be आभास as a `` छोड़ा ताल  `` or felt as palpitations in the chest .
In a normal heartbeat ,  the ventricles अनुबंध बाद the atria have helped to भरण उन्हें by contracting ; in इस  way the ventricles can pump a maximized amount of blood both to the lungs and to the rest of the body .
In a PVC , the ventricles contract first and before the  atria have optimally भर the ventricles साथ रक्त , जिससे अर्थात् कि  circulation is inefficient .
However , single beat PVC arrhythmias do not usually  पोज़ a खतरे और can be asymptomatic  in healthy individuals .
William Gary Busey ( born June 29 , 1944 ) , better known as Gary Busey , is  an अमरीकी फिल्मी और स्टेज कर्ता , और  artist .
He has appeared in a variety of films , including Lethal Weapon , Point Break , and  अंतर्गत घेरा , as खूब as अतिथि दिखावे on gunsmoke , वाकर , टेक्सास  Ranger , Law & Order , and Entourage .
He was nominated for an  अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन कर्ता  in 1978 for his role in The Buddy Holly Story .
The  anti-counterfeiting व्यापार अनुबंध ( acta ) , is  a multinational treaty for the purpose of establishing international standards for intellectual property rights enforcement .
The agreement aims to establish an international legal framework for targeting counterfeit goods , generic medicines and copyright infringement on the Internet , and would create a new governing body outside existing forums  , ऐसे as the संसार व्यापार संगठन , the संसार बौद्धिक प्रॉपर्टी संगठन , or the संयुक्त राष्ट्र .
The agreement was signed in October  2011 by ऑस्ट्रेलिया , कनाडा , जापानी , मोरक्को  , New Zealand , Singapore , South Korea , and the United States .
In 2012 , Mexico , the European Union and 22 countries which are  सदस्य राज्य of the यूरोपीय संघ हस्ताक्षरित as खूब  .
One signatory ( Japan ) has ratified ( formally approved ) the agreement , which would come into force in  देशों कि ratified  it after ratification by six countries .
समर्थक have वर्णित the अनुबंध as a जवाब to ``  the increase in global trade of counterfeit goods and pirated copyright protected works '' .
Trades Unions representing workers in the music , film and TV industries and large intellectual property-based organizations such as the Motion Picture Association  of अमेरिका और फार्मास्युटिकल शोध और निर्माताओं of अमेरिका यहूद  active in the treaty 's development .
Opponents say the convention adversely affects fundamental  अधिकारों सहित स्वतंत्रता of अभिव्यक्ति  and privacy .
ACTA has also been criticised by Doctors Without Borders for endangering access  to दवाइयाँ in विकासशील देशों  .
The secret nature of negotiations has excluded civil society groups , developing countries and the general public  इससे the अनुबंध 's negotiation प्रक्रम और it रै महरूम वर्णित as नीति laundering by आलोचकों सहित the इलेक्ट्रॉनिक frontier न्यास  and the Entertainment Consumers Association .
The signature of the EU and many of its member states resulted in the  इस्तीफा in विरोध of the यूरोपीय पार्लियामेंट 's नियुक्त मुख्य अन्वेषक , rapporteur  Kader Arif , as well as widespread protests across Europe .
In 2012 the newly-appointed rapporteur , British MEP David Martin , recommended against the  सन्धि , stating : `` the  intended benefits of this international agreement are far outweighed by the potential threats to civil liberties '' .
On 4 July 2012 , the  यूरोपीय पार्लियामेंट अस्वीकृत the अनुबंध in plenary  session , with 478 voting against the treaty , 39 in favour and 165 MEPs abstaining .
FAW  semi-trailer  truck in China
ट्रैक्टर साथ पक्ष  dump trailer semi-trailer
A tractor with an  auto-transport semi-trailer  .
Semi-trailer truck  साथ स्लीपर पीछे  the cab .
A semi-trailer truck is an articulated vehicle that consists of a towing engine , known as a  ट्रैक्टर in the संयुक्त राज्य और  truck in many other places , attached to one or more semi-trailers to carry freight .
It is also known as a transport in Canada , prime mover in Australia , semi , tractor-trailer , truck and  ट्रेलर , ट्रांसफ़र ट्रक , 18-wheeler , mack ट्रक , बिग रिग in  the United States , or artic , short for articulated lorry , in Britain and Ireland .
A  semi-trailer करता नहीं ट्रेल completely पीछे the  towing vehicle , but is attached at a point that is just forward of the rear-most axle of the towing unit .
This is done so that a fraction of the weight of the trailer is  carried  by the prime mover .
This arrangement means that both  ट्रैक्टर और semi-trailer  will have a distinctly different design than a rigid truck and trailer .
The Pittsburgh  स्टीलर्स हैं a पेशेवर फ़ुटबॉल टोली आधारित  in Pittsburgh , Pennsylvania .
The team currently belongs to the North Division of the American Football  सम्मेलन ( afc ) in the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग  ( NFL ) .
Founded in , the Steelers are the  oldest मताधिकार in the  AFC .
Pittsburgh has won more Super Bowl titles ( six ) , won more AFC Championship Games ( eight ) and played in ( fifteen )  और hosted अधिक ( ग्यारह ) सम्मेलन चैंपियनशिप खेल than कोई  other AFC or NFC team .
the स्टीलर्स share the रिकार्ड  for most Super Bowl appearances with the Dallas Cowboys ( eight ) .
The Steelers won their  सबसे हाल चैंपियनशिप , सुपर कटोरी xliii ,  on February 1 , 2009 .
The Steelers were founded as the Pittsburgh Pirates on July 8 , 1933 , by Art Rooney , taking its original name from the baseball team of the  वही नाम , as थी आम अभ्यास लिये एनएफएल टीमों to do at  the time .
The  स्वामित्व of the  Steelers has remained within the Rooney family since its founding .
The current owner is Art 's son , Dan Rooney , who has given much control of  the मताधिकार to उसके बेटे आर्ट रूनी ii .
Long one of the NFL 's flagship teams , the Steelers  आनंद a विशाल , फैली fanbase nicknamed  Steeler Nation .
The Steelers currently play their home games at Heinz  फ़ील्ड on पिट्सबर्ग 's उत्तर पक्ष in the उत्तर shore पड़ोस , जिससे भी  hosts the University of Pittsburgh Panthers .
Built in 2001 ,  the स्टेडियम replaced तीन नदियाँ  Stadium which hosted the Steelers for 31 seasons .
Prior to Three Rivers , the Steelers had played their games in Pitt  स्टेडियम और फोर्ब्स फ़ील्ड  .
Three different  kinds of गेहूं  and rye flour
Flour  is a चूर्ण जिससे is बना by पीस  cereal grains , or other seeds or roots ( like Cassava ) .
It is the main  संघटक of ब्रैड , जिससे is a स्टेपल खाना लिये अनेक संस्कृतियों  , making the availability of adequate supplies of flour a major economic and political issue at various times throughout history .
Wheat flour is one of the most important foods in European , North American ,  मध्य पूर्वी , भारतीय और उत्तर अफ़्रीकी संस्कृतियों , और is the धमक संघटक in सबसे of उनके शैलियाँ of breads  and pastries .
While wheat is  the सबसे आम आधार लिये आटा , मकई आटा रै महरूम महत्वपूर्ण in  Mesoamerican cuisine since ancient times , and remains a staple throughout the Americas .
Rye flour is an important constituent of bread in much of  सेंट्रल यूरोपीय , और राइस can भी be प्रयुक्त in आटा , हालांकि  this is relatively uncommon .
Heart rate is the number of  heartbeats प्रति ईकाई of समय  , typically expressed as beats per minute ( bpm ) .
Heart rate can vary  as the देह 's need to अवशोषित ऑक्सीजन और excrete कार्बन डाइऑक्साइड परिवर्तन , ऐसे as दौरान शारीरिक  exercise , sleep , illness , or as a result of ingesting drugs :
Central nervous system  stimulants ऐसे as amphetamines  increase heart rate .
Central nervous system depressants or sedatives decreases the heart rate ( apart from some particularly strange ones  साथ बराबर अजीब प्रभाव , ऐसे as केटामाइन जिससे can कारण - amongst अनेक अन्य बाते - stimulant-like प्रभाव  such as tachycardia ) .
There are many ways in which the  दिल रेट speeds  up or slows down .
Most involve stimulant-like endorphins and hormones being released in the  दिमाग , अनेक of जिससे हैं those कि हैं 'forced'/'enticed ' आउट  by the ingestion and processing of drugs .
Due to individuals having a constant blood volume , one of the physiological  तरीके to उद्धार अधिक ऑक्सीजन to an अंग is to बढ़ाएँ दिल रेट to  permit blood to pass by the organ more often .
Normal resting heart  दरों दायरा इससे 60-100  bpm .
Bradycardia is defined as a resting  दिल रेट नीचे 60  bpm .
However , heart rates from 50 to 60 bpm  हैं आम among स्वस्थ लोगों और do नहीं necessarily आवश्यकता  special attention .
Tachycardia is defined as a resting heart rate above 100 bpm , though persistent rest rates between 80-100 bpm , mainly if they  हैं उपस्थित दौरान नींद , may be लक्षण of हाइपरथाइरॉयडिज़्म or रक्ताल्पता  ( see below ) .
Catherine II 's carved , painted and  gilded राजतिलक कोच  ( Hermitage Museum )
A carriage is a wheeled vehicle for people , usually  horse-drawn ; litters ( palanquins ) और सेडान कुर्सियां  are excluded , since they are wheelless vehicles .
the carriage is विशेषकर designed लिये निजी यात्री उपयोग और  for comfort or elegance , though some are also used to transport goods .
It may be light ,  smart और तेज़ or भारी , विशाल  and comfortable .
Carriages normally have suspension using leaf springs ,  अंडाकार स्रोतों ( in  the 19th century ) or leather strapping .
A public passenger vehicle would  नहीं प्रायः be पुकारा a carriage – शर्तें  for such include stagecoach , charabanc and omnibus .
Working vehicles such as the ( four-wheeled ) wagon and ( two-wheeled ) cart  share महत्वपूर्ण भाग of the इतिहास of the carriage , as is the तेज़ ( two-wheeled ) रथ  .
The 2004 Indian  समंदर भूकंप थी an undersea  megathrust earthquake that occurred at 00:58:53 UTC on Sunday , 26 December 2004 , with an epicentre off the west coast of Sumatra , Indonesia .
The quake itself is known by the scientific  जातियाँ as the sumatra–andaman  earthquake .
The resulting tsunami was given various names , including the 2004 Indian Ocean  सुनामी , दक्षिण एशियाई सुनामी , इंडोनेशियाई सुनामी , और the मुक्केबाज़ी दिन सुनामी  .
The earthquake was caused by subduction and  triggered a श्रेणी of विनाशकारी tsunamis साथ the coasts of सबसे landmasses bordering the भारतीय समंदर , हत्या over 230,000 लोगों in चौदह  countries , and inundating coastal communities with waves up to high .
It was one of the deadliest  प्राकृतिक आपदाओं in अंकित  history .
इंडोनेशिया थी the hardest-hit  country , followed by Sri Lanka , India , and Thailand .
साथ a परिमाण of mw 9.1–9.3  , it is the third largest earthquake ever recorded on a seismograph .
The earthquake had the longest duration of faulting ever  observed , between 8.3 और 10 मिनट्स  .
It  caused the संपूर्ण ग्रह to हिलना as  much as and triggered other earthquakes as far away as Alaska .
Its epicentre was between Simeulue and  मेनलैंड इंडोनेशिया  .
The plight of the affected people and  देशों prompted a विश्वव्यापी  humanitarian response .
In all , the worldwide  जातियाँ दान अधिक than  $ 14 billion ( 2004 US $ ) in humanitarian aid .
Steam rising  इससे the nesjavellir geothermal शक्ति  Station in Iceland .
Geothermal  उर्जा is थर्मल उर्जा  generated and stored in the Earth .
Thermal energy  is the उर्जा कि determines  the temperature of matter .
the geothermal उर्जा of the धरती 's क्रस्ट originates इससे the असली  formation of the planet ( 20 % ) and from radioactive decay of minerals ( 80 % ) .
The geothermal gradient , which is the difference in temperature between the core  of the ग्रह और इसके सतह , ड्राइव a निरन्तर conduction of थर्मल उर्जा  in the form of heat from the core to the surface .
The adjective geothermal originates from  the यूनानी जड़ें γη ( ge ) , अर्थ  earth , and θερμος ( thermos ) , meaning hot .
At the core of the Earth , thermal energy is created by radioactive decay  और temperatures may पहुँचें over 5000 °c ( 9,000  °F ) .
Heat  conducts इससे the  core to surrounding cooler rock .
The high temperature and pressure cause some rock to melt , creating magma convection upward since it  is हल्का than the ठोस  rock .
The  मैग्मा heats चट्टान और जल in the क्रस्ट  , sometimes up to 370 °C ( 700 °F ) .
From hot springs , geothermal energy has been used  लिये स्नान चूंकि paleolithic टाइम्स और लिये स्पेस हीटिंग  since ancient Roman times , but it is now better known for electricity generation .
Worldwide , about 10,715  megawatts ( mw ) of geothermal  power is online in 24 countries .
An additional 28 gigawatts of direct geothermal heating capacity is installed for district heating , space heating  , स्पा , औद्योगिक प्रक्रियाओं  , desalination and agricultural applications .
Geothermal power is cost effective , reliable , sustainable , and environmentally friendly  , लकिन रै historically महरूम सीमित to क्षेत्रों  near tectonic plate boundaries .
Recent technological advances have dramatically expanded the range and size of viable resources , especially for  अनुप्रयोग ऐसे as घर हीटिंग , खोलने a संभावित लिये  widespread exploitation .
Geothermal wells release greenhouse gases trapped deep within the earth , but  ये emissions हैं much निम्नतर प्रति उर्जा ईकाई than those of चट्टान fuels  .
As a result , geothermal power has the potential to  सहायता mitigate वैश्विक वार्मिंग if widely  deployed in place of fossil fuels .
The Earth 's geothermal resources are theoretically more than adequate to supply humanity 's energy  needs , लकिन तभी a बहुत छोटी भिन्न  may be profitably exploited .
Drilling and  खोजी लिये गहन संसाधन  is very expensive .
Forecasts for the future  of geothermal शक्ति निर्भर on assumptions  about technology , energy prices , subsidies , and interest rates .
Pilot  कार्यक्रम जैसे eweb 's ग्राहक  opt in Green Power Program show that customers would be willing to pay a little more for a renewable energy source like geothermal .
But as a result of government assisted research and industry experience , the cost of  generating geothermal शक्ति रै decreased  by 25 % over the past two decades .
In  2001 , geothermal उर्जा  cost between two and ten cents per kwh .
The term cubic foot is an Imperial and US customary ( non- metric ) unit of volume , used in  the संयुक्त राज्य और the संयुक्त किंगडम  .
It is defined as  the  volume of a cube with sides of one foot ( 0.3048 m ) in length .
To  गणना घन फीट गुणा लंबाई  X width X height .
Hồ Chí Minh (  उत्तरी वियतनामी उच्चारण : , दक्षिणी वियतनामी उच्चारण  : ) ; 19 May 1890 – 2 September 1969 ) , born Nguyễn Sinh Cung and also known as Nguyễn Tất Thành and Nguyễn Ái Quốc , was a Vietnamese communist revolutionary leader who was prime minister ( 1945–1955 ) and president ( 1945–1969 ) of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam ( North Vietnam ) .
He was a key figure in the foundation of the Democratic  गणतंत्र of वियतनाम in 1945 , as खूब as the people’s  Army of Vietnam ( PAVN ) and the Việt Cộng ( NLF or VC ) during the Vietnam War .
He led the Việt Minh independence movement from 1941  onward , establishing the कम्युनिस्ट -नियमd लोकतांत्रिक गणतंत्र of वियतनाम  in 1945 and defeating the French Union in 1954 at the battle of Điện Biên Phủ .
He officially stepped down from power in 1955  due to स्वास्थ्य समस्याएं , लकिन remained a अत्यधिक दृश्य figurehead और प्रेरणा  for those Vietnamese fighting for his cause—a united , communist Vietnam—until his death .
After the war , Saigon , capital of  the गणतंत्र of वियतनाम , थी renamed hồ  Chí Minh City .
All Roads Lead Home is  a विशेषता फिल्मी released  on September 26 , 2008 .
Directed by Dennis Fallon , it stars Peter Boyle ,  patton oswalt , जेसन लंदन , vivien cardone , वैनेसा शाखा  , Peter Coyote , Stephen Milton , and Allan Kayser .
The movie was  फिल्माया in और around कान्सास  City , Missouri .
The movie made its World  प्रीमियर जनवरी 27 at the सांता बारबरा अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Film Festival .
The film  रै भी recently महरूम  in several film festivals , and has received bad reviews .
Peter Boyle  died पहले the फिल्म  's release .
It  थी the पिछला  movie he appeared in .
Sales taxes in the United States are taxes  लगाई on the बिक्री or पट्टे of goods और सेवाएं  in the United States .
While no national general sales tax exists , the federal government levies several national  चयनात्मक बिक्री कर on the बिक्री or पट्टे of particular goods  and services .
Furthermore , forty-five states , the District of Columbia , and Guam impose general sales taxes that apply  to the बिक्री or पट्टे of सबसे goods और कुछ सेवाएं , और राज्य भी may लेवी चयनात्मक  sales taxes on the sale or lease of particular goods or services .
States may also delegate to local governments  the प्राधिकार to थोपने अतिरिक्त  general or selective sales taxes .
Sales tax  is गणना by multiplying  the purchase price by the applicable tax rate .
Tax rates  vary widely by क्षेत्राधिकार  and range from less than 1 % to over 10 % .
Sales tax  is एकत्रित by the विक्रेता  at the time of sale .
Use tax is self assessed by a buyer who  रै नहीं सशुल्क बिक्री कर on a taxable खरीदें  .
Unlike the value added tax , a sales tax is  imposed तभी एकबार , at  the retail level .
However , in cases where items are sold at retail more than once ,  ऐसे as प्रयुक्त गाड़ियाँ , the बिक्री  tax can be charged on the same item indefinitely .
The definition of retail sales  और कया goods और सेवाएं हैं taxable vary  among the states .
Nearly all jurisdictions provide numerous  श्रेणी of goods और सेवाएं कि  are exempt from sales tax , or taxed at reduced rates .
The purchase of goods for further  manufacture or लिये पुनर्विक्रय is uniformly  exempt from sales tax .
Most jurisdictions exempt food sold in grocery stores , prescription medications , and many  agricultural आपूर्तियाँ  .
Sales taxes , including  those imposed by लोकल सरकारें  , are generally administered at the state level .
States imposing sales tax require retail sellers to collect tax from customers , file  रिटर्न , और remit the कर  to the state .
Procedural rules  vary widely .
Sellers generally must collect tax from  in-state purchasers जबतक the क्रेता provides an exemption  certificate .
सबसे राज्य allow or आवश्यकता  electronic remittance .
A central processing unit (  cpu ) , भी referred to as a सेंट्रल प्रोसेसर ईकाई , is the हार्डवेयर भीतर  a computer that carries out the instructions of a computer program by performing the basic arithmetical , logical , and input/output operations of the system .
The term has been in use in the computer  उद्योग at तनिक चूंकि the  early 1960s .
The form , design , and implementation of CPUs have changed over  the कोर्स of उनके इतिहास , लकिन उनके आधारभूत आपरेशन  remains much the same .
A computer can have more than one CPU ;  इस is पुकारा multiprocessing  .
Some integrated circuits ( ICs ) can contain multiple  cpu on a सिंगल चिप ; those ics हैं पुकारा  multi-core processors .
Two typical components of a CPU are the arithmetic logic unit ( ALU ) , which performs arithmetic and logical operations , and the control unit ( CU ) , which extracts instructions from  मेमोरी और decodes और चलाता उन्हें , कॉलिंग on the alu जब जरुरी  .
Not all computational  प्रणालियों rely on a सेंट्रल प्रसंस्करण  unit .
An array processor or vector processor has  अनेक समानांतर कम्प्यूटिंग तत्व , साथ  no one unit considered the `` center '' .
In the distributed computing model , problems are solved by a  वितरित interconnected नियत of processors  .
rfid चिप अगला  to a grain of rice .
This chip contains a  radio-frequency इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक फ़ील्ड कुंडली कि modulates an बाह्य चुम्बकीय फ़ील्ड to ट्रांसफ़र  a coded identification number when queried by a reader device .
This small type is incorporated in consumer  उत्पाद , और implanted in पालतु , लिये पहचान  purposes .
Radio-frequency identification ( RFID ) is the wireless non-contact use of radio-frequency electromagnetic fields to transfer data , for the purposes of  automatically identifying और ट्रैकिंग टैग संलग्न  to objects .
The  टैग contain electronically  stored information .
Some tags are powered and read at short  सीमाएँ ( a few मीटर ) via चुम्बकीय  fields ( electromagnetic induction ) .
Others use a local power source such as a battery , or else have no battery but collect energy from the interrogating EM field , and then act as a passive  transponder to emit microwaves or uhf रेडियो लहरें ( i.e. , इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक विकिरण at ऊँची बारंबारता  ) .
Battery powered tags may operate at hundreds  of मीटर  .
Unlike a bar code , the tag does not necessarily need to  be भीतर लकीर of sight of the रीडर  , and may be embedded in the tracked object .
RFID tags are  प्रयुक्त in अनेक उद्योग  .
An RFID tag attached to an automobile during production can be used to  track इसके प्रगति through the सभा  line .
दवाएँ can be tracked  through warehouses .
पशुधन और पालतु may have टैग injected , allowing  positive identification of the animal .
Since RFID tags can be attached to clothing , possessions , or even implanted within  लोगों , the सम्भावना of पढना personally-linked सूचना बगैर सहमति  has raised privacy concerns .
Overtime  is the राशि of समय किसी works परे  normal working hours .
Normal hours may  be संकल्पित in अनेक  ways:
by custom ( what is considered healthy or  उचित by समाज  ) ,
by practices of a given  व्यापार or profession,
by  legislation,
by agreement between employers and  मजदूर or उनके प्रतिनिधि  .
Most  राष्ट्र have ओवरटाइम मजदूर कानून  designed to dissuade or prevent employers from forcing their employees to work excessively long hours .
These laws may take into account other considerations than the humanitarian , such as preserving the  स्वास्थ्य of मजदूर so कि वे may continue  to be productive , or increasing the overall level of employment in the economy .
One common approach to  regulating ओवरटाइम is to आवश्यकता नियोक्ता  to pay workers at a higher hourly rate for overtime work .
Companies may choose to pay workers higher overtime pay even if not obliged to do so by law ,  विशेषकर if वे मानना कि वे फेस a पिछड़ा झुकने  supply curve of labour .
Overtime pay  दरों can कारण मजदूर to कार्य longer घंटों  than they would at a flat hourly rate .
ओवरटाइम  laws , attitudes toward overtime and hours of work vary greatly from country to country and between different economic sectors .
Visualization of  कड़ी between पृष्ठों on a विक using  a force-directed layout .
Force-directed graph drawing algorithms are a class of  algorithms लिये आरेखण  graphs in an aesthetically pleasing way .
Their purpose is to position the nodes of a graph in two-dimensional or three-dimensional space so that all the edges are of more or less equal length and there are as few crossing edges as possible , by assigning  शक्तियां among the नियत of किनारे और the नियत of नोड , आधारित on उनके सापेक्ष स्थितियाँ , और तब using ये शक्तियां either to सिमुलेट the  motion of the edges and nodes or to minimize their energy .
While graph drawing can be a difficult problem , force-directed algorithms , being  शारीरिक simulations , प्रायः आवश्यकता no खास  knowledge about graph theory such as planarity .
Purchasing power ( sometimes retroactively called  समायोजित लिये महंगाई ) is the राशि of goods  or services that can be purchased with a unit of currency .
For  उदाहरण , if तुम था लिया एक डालर to a स्टोर in the 1950s , तुम होता have महरूम समर्थ to  buy a greater number of items than you would today , indicating that you would have had a greater purchasing power in the 1950s .
करेंसी can be either a कमोडिटी धन , जैसे सुनहरा or चांदी , or fiat  currency , or free-floating market-valued currency like US dollars .
As Adam Smith noted , having money gives one the ability to `` command '' others ' labor , so purchasing power  to कुछ extent is शक्ति over अन्य लोगों , to the extent  that they are willing to trade their labor or goods for money or currency .
If one 's monetary income stays the  वही , लकिन the दाम स्तर increases , the खरीदना  power of that income falls .
Inflation does not always imply falling purchasing power of one 's money  आय चूंकि it may वृद्धि तेज़ than the दाम  level .
A  उच्चतर रियल आय अर्थात् a उच्चतर  purchasing power since real income refers to the income adjusted for inflation .
For a price index , its value in the base year is  प्रायः सामान्यीकृत to a मान of 100  .
the खरीदना शक्ति of a ईकाई of करेंसी , कह a डालर , in  a given year , expressed in dollars of the base year , is 100/P , where P is the price index in that year .
So , by definition the purchasing power of a  डालर decreases as the दाम स्तर उदय  .
The purchasing power in today 's money of an amount C of  धन , t सालो into the भविष्य , can be computed  with the formula for the present value :
जहाँ in इस मामला i is  an assumed future annual inflation rate .
Education in South Korea is viewed as being crucial for success and  प्रतियोगिता is नतीजतन बहुत heated और fierce .
A central administration oversees the process for the  शिक्षा of children इससे किंडरगार्टन  to the third and final year of high school .
Mathematics , science  , कोरियाई , अंग्रेज़ी  , and social studies are generally considered to be the most important subjects .
Normally physical education is not considered important as it is not recognised , by the generally  अकादमिक elitist दक्षिण कोरियाई populace , as शिक्षा  and therefore many schools lack high-quality gymnasiums and varsity athletics .
South Korea was the first  देश in the संसार to provide  high-speed internet access to all primary , junior , and high schools .
Although South Korean students often rank highly on international comparative assessments when compared to  विद्यार्थी of सबसे पश्चिमी शिक्षा प्रणालियों , the दक्षिण कोरियाई शिक्षा प्रणाली is criticised  for emphasising too much upon passive learning and memorisation .
The South Korean education system  is बल्कि notably सख्त और overly संरचित as compared  to its counterparts in most Western societies .
भी , the व्यापकता of  non-school for-profit private institutes such as academies or cram-schools ( Hagwon [ 학원 ] ) , which too emphasise on passive memorisation , as opposed to conceptual understanding , in students are criticised as a major social problem .
The My Lai Massacre ( , ; , , or ) was the Vietnam War mass  हत्या of between 347 और 504 निहत्थे नागरिकों in दक्षिण वियतनाम on  March 16 , 1968 , by United States Army soldiers of `` Charlie '' Company of 1st Battalion , 20th Infantry Regiment , 11th Brigade of the Americal Division .
पीड़ितों शामिल  women , men , children , and infants .
Some of  the महिलाओं यहूद gang-raped और उनके लाशें यहूद  later found to be mutilated and many women were allegedly raped prior to the killings .
While 26 U.S. soldiers were initially charged with criminal offenses for their actions at Mỹ  lai , तभी दूसरी लेफ्टिनेंट विलियम calley , a प्लाटून नेता in चार्ली कम्पनी , थी  convicted .
Found guilty of killing 22 villagers , he was originally given a life  वाक्य , लकिन तभी परोसा तीन और a हाफ  years under house arrest .
The massacre took place in the  hamlets of my lai और my khe of बेटे my गाँव  .
The event is also known as  the बेटे my नरसंहार , विशेषकर in the वियतनामी  state media .
The U.S.  सैन्य codeword लिये the  `` Viet Cong stronghold '' was `` Pinkville '' .
The incident prompted global outrage when it  became पब्लिक ज्ञान in 1969  .
The massacre also increased domestic  विपक्ष to the u.S. भागीदारी  in the Vietnam War .
Three U.S. servicemen who had tried to halt the massacre  और protect the wounded यहूद initially denounced  by several U.S . Congressmen as traitors .
They  प्राप्त नफ़रत मेल और मौत खतरे और मिला mutilated  animals on their doorsteps .
The three were  बाद widely praised  and decorated by the Army for their heroic actions .
the hijackers in the सितंबर  11 attacks were 19 men affiliated with al-Qaeda , and 15 of the 19 were citizens of Saudi Arabia .
अन्य यहूद  from Egypt , Lebanon , and the UAE .
The hijackers were organized into four teams , each led by a pilot-trained hijacker with  चार `` मांसपेशी hijackers '' जो यहूद प्रशिक्षित to सहायता subdue the पायलटों  , passengers , and crew .
The first hijackers to arrive in  the संयुक्त राज्य  were Khalid al-Mihdhar and Nawaf al-Hazmi , who settled in the San Diego area in January 2000 .
They were followed by three hijacker-pilots , Mohamed  atta , marwan al-shehhi  , and Ziad Jarrah early in the summer of 2000 to undertake flight training in south Florida .
The fourth hijacker-pilot , Hani  hanjour , arrived in सैन डिएगो  in December 2000 .
The rest of the `` muscle hijackers ''  arrived in the वसन्त और जल्दी गर्मियाँ of 2001  , just months before the September 11 attacks .
Abū al-Qāsim Muḥammad ibn ʿAbd Allāh ibn ʿAbd al-Muṭṭalib ibn  hāshim ( ) ( circa| 570 – circa| 8 जून 632 ) , भी transliterated as मुहम्मद ( ) , थी a धार्मिक  , political , and military leader from Mecca who unified Arabia into a single religious polity under Islam .
He is  believed by मुसलमान और bahá'ís  to be a messenger and prophet of God .
Muhammad is almost universally considered by  मुसलमान as the पिछला नबी भेजा by परमेश्वर लिये mankind  .
non-muslims लिहाज़ मुहम्मद  as the founder of Islam .
Muslims consider him to be the restorer of an unaltered original monotheistic faith of Adam ,  नूह , अब्राहम , मूसा , यीशु , और अन्य नबियों  .
Born in about 570 CE in the Arabian city of Mecca , he was orphaned  at an जल्दी आयु और brought up अंतर्गत the परवाह  of his uncle Abu Talib .
He later worked mostly as a merchant , as well as a shepherd , and was  पहला शादीशुदा by आयु  25 .
Being in the habit of periodically retreating to a cave  in the surrounding kyu लिये अनेक नाइट्स of seclusion और दुआ , he बाद reported  that it was there , at age 40 , that he received his first revelation from God .
Three years after this event Muhammad  प्रारंभ उपदेश ये खुलासे सरेआम , proclaiming  that `` God is One `` , that complete `` surrender '' to Him ( lit .
islām ) is the only way ( dīn ) acceptable to God , and that he himself was a prophet and messenger of God , in  the वही रग as अन्य इस्लामी नबियों  .
मुहम्मद gained few अनुसरणकर्ता जल्दी on , और थी मिले साथ दुश्मनी  from some Meccan tribes ; he and his followers were treated harshly .
To escape persecution , Muhammad sent some of his  अनुसरणकर्ता to अबीसीनिया पहले he और उसके अनुसरणकर्ता in मक्का migrated to  Medina ( then known as Yathrib ) in the year 622 .
This event , the Hijra ,  marks the शुरूआत of the इस्लामी पंचांग , जिससे is भी  known as the Hijri Calendar .
In Medina , Muhammad united the  जनजातियों अंतर्गत the संविधान  of Medina .
After eight years of fighting with the  meccan जनजातियों , उसके अनुसरणकर्ता , जो by तब था grown to  10,000 , took control of Mecca in the largely peaceful Conquest of Mecca .
He destroyed the pagan idols in the  नगर और तब भेजा उसके अनुसरणकर्ता आउट to नष्ट सब  of the remaining pagan temples in Eastern Arabia .
In 632 , a few months after returning to Medina from The  विदाई यात्राएं , मुहम्मद  fell ill and died .
By  the समय of उसके मौत , सबसे of  the Arabian Peninsula had converted to Islam , and he had united Arabia into a single Muslim religious polity .
The revelations  ( or ayah , lit  .
`` Signs [ of God ] '' ) — which Muhammad reported receiving until his death – form the verses of the  कुरान , regarded by मुसलमान as the `` शब्द of परमेश्वर '' और around  which the religion is based .
Besides the Quran , Muhammad 's life ( sira ) and traditions (  सुन्नत ) हैं भी upheld by मुसलमान as the स्त्रोत  of sharia law .
They discuss Muhammad and other prophets of Islam with reverence , adding  the phrase सलाम be upon उसे whenever उनके names  are mentioned .
While conceptions of Muhammad in medieval  christendom और premodern टाइम्स यहूद largely ऋणात्मक , appraisals in आधुनिक इतिहास  have been far less so .
This is a list of tables of the verified  oldest लोगों in the संसार in ordinal  rank , such as oldest person or oldest man .
In these tables , a  supercentenarian is माना 'verified ' if उसके or उसके अर्जी रै महरूम  validated by an international body that specifically deals in longevity research , such as the Gerontology Research Group ( GRG ) or Guinness World Records .
The longest unambiguously documented human lifespan  is कि of jeanne calment of फ़्रांस ( 1875–1997  ) , who died at age 122 years , 164 days .
She met Vincent  वैन gogh जब वो थी  12 or 13 .
This led to news media  ध्यान in 1985 , बाद calment  turned 110 .
Subsequent investigation found  दस्तावेज़ीकरण लिये calment 's आयु , परे  any reasonable question , in the records of her native city , Arles , France .
अधिक प्रमाण of calment 's जीवनकाल रै महरूम उत्पादित than लिये कोई अन्य  supercentenarian ; her case serves as an archetype in the methodology for verifying the ages of the world 's oldest people .
The longest undisputed lifespan for male supercentenarians is  कि of jiroemon किमुरा , जो फिलहाल जीवनदान in जापानी और is आयु  as of .
Since the death of 115-year old Dina Manfredini of the United States ,  on 17 दिसम्बर 2012 , किमुरा , born 19 अप्रैल 1897 , is the oldest जीना व्यक्ति  in the world whose age can be documented .
He has also been the oldest living man since the death of  114-year बूढ़ा वाल्टर breuning on 14 अप्रैल 2011  .
Since the death of 115-year old Koto Okubo of Japan on 12 January 2013  , the oldest जीना स्त्री रै महरूम -year-old misao okawa , भी इससे  Japan , born on 5 March 1898 .
This is a timeline of the  african-american सिविल अधिकारों गति  .
The Civil Rights movement was a freedom struggle  by अफ़्रीकी अमेरिकी in the  1950s and 1960s to gain equality .
The goals of the movement were freedom from discrimination , equal opportunity in employment ,  शिक्षा और आवास , the सही to vote और बराबर अभिगम to पब्लिक सुविधाएं  .
Heavy metal ( often  referred to as मेटल ) is a विधा of चट्टान म्यूज़िक कि विकसित  in the late 1960s and early 1970s , largely in the United Kingdom and in the United States .
With roots in blues rock and psychedelic rock , the bands that created heavy metal developed a thick , massive sound , characterized by highly amplified  distortion , विस्तारित गिटार solos , emphatic बीट्स , और overall  loudness .
Heavy  मेटल गीत और प्रदर्शन शैलियाँ हैं  generally associated with masculinity and machismo .
The first heavy metal bands such as Led Zeppelin , Deep Purple and Black Sabbath attracted large  ऑडियंस , हालांकि वे यहूद प्रायः derided by आलोचकों , a औकात आम throughout the  history of the genre .
In the mid-1970s Judas Priest helped spur the genre  's एवोल्यूशन by discarding much of इसके ब्लूज़  influence ; Motörhead introduced a punk rock sensibility and an increasing emphasis on speed .
Bands in  the नई वेव of अंग्रेजों भारी मेटल ऐसे  as Iron Maiden followed in a similar vein .
Before  the समाप्त of the दशक , भारी मेटल प्रशंसक became ज्ञात  as `` metalheads `` or `` headbangers `` .
During the 1980s , glam metal  became a वाणिज्यिक फ़ोर्स साथ समूह  like Mötley Crüe and Poison .
Underground scenes produced an array of more extreme , aggressive styles : thrash metal broke into the mainstream with bands such as Metallica , Megadeth , Slayer , and  एंथ्रेक्स , जबकि अन्य शैलियाँ of the सबसे चरम subgenres of मेटल  like death metal and black metal remain subcultural phenomena .
Since the mid-1990s ,  लोकप्रिय शैलियाँ ऐसे as nu मेटल , जिससे प्रायः incorporates तत्व of grunge और हिप हॉप ;  and metalcore , which blends extreme metal with hardcore punk , have further expanded the definition of the genre .
The far-right (  भी ज्ञात as the चरम सही ) refers to the  highest degree of rightism in right-wing politics .
Far right politics involves support of strong or complete social hierarchy in society  , और supports सर्वोच्चता of निश्चित  individuals or groups deemed to be innately superior or preferable who are to be more valued than those deemed to be innately inferior or undesirable .
The far right 's advocacy of  supremacism is आधारित on कया इसके adherents perceive as  innate characteristics of people that can not be changed .
This stands as a point of difference  साथ the centre-right 's आरोपण of behaviours  , such as laziness or decadence , as the primary sources of social inequalities .
The centre right—unlike the far right—claims that people can end their behavioural inferiority  through बदलना उनके आदतें और चुनाव  .
The original far right , which emerged in France after the French Revolution , refused to accept the French  गणतंत्र और समर्थित a counter-revolution to restore  the French monarchy and aristocracy .
The far right is commonly associated with persons or groups who hold extreme  राष्ट्रवादी , xenophobic , जातिवाद , धार्मिक fundamentalist  or reactionary views .
The most extreme-right movements have pursued oppression and genocide against  समूह of लोगों on the आधार of उनके कथित हीनता  .
Thomas Hobbes of Malmesbury ( 5 April 1588 – 4 December 1679 ) , in some older texts Thomas Hobbs of Malmsbury  , थी an अंग्रेज़ी पारस , बेहतरीन ज्ञात आज लिये उसके कार्य on राजनैतिक  philosophy .
His 1651 book Leviathan established the foundation for most of Western political  दर्शनशास्त्र इससे the परिप्रेक्ष्य of  social contract theory .
Hobbes was a champion of absolutism for the sovereign , but he also developed some of the fundamentals of European liberal thought : the right of the individual ; the natural equality of all men ;  the कृत्रिम अक्षर of the राजनैतिक अनुक्रम ( जिससे led to the बाद भेद between सिविल समाज और the राज्य  ) ; the view that all legitimate political power must be `` representative '' and based on the consent of the people ; and a liberal interpretation of law which leaves people free to do whatever the law does not explicitly forbid .
He was one of the founders of  आधुनिक राजनैतिक  philosophy .
His understanding of humans as being  पदार्थ और गति , obeying the वही शारीरिक कानून as अन्य पदार्थ और गति , remains influential ; और उसके खाता of इंसान प्रकृति as self-interested  cooperation , and of political communities as being based upon a `` social contract `` remains one of the major topics of political philosophy .
In  जोड to राजनैतिक दर्शनशास्त्र , hobbes भी contributed to a  diverse array of other fields , including history , geometry , the physics of gases , theology , ethics , and general philosophy .
Emotional intelligence ( EI ) is the ability to identify , assess , and control the emotions of oneself  , of अन्य , और of समूह  .
It can be divided into ability  ei और trait ei  .
Ability EI is usually measured using maximum performance tests and has stronger relationships with traditional intelligence  , whereas trait ei is प्रायः measured using self-report questionnaires और रै stronger संबंध साथ व्यक्तित्व  .
Criticisms have centered on whether EI is a real intelligence and whether it has incremental validity  over iq और the बिग पाँच व्यक्तित्व  traits .
Heredity is the passing of traits to offspring from  इसके अभिभावक or पूर्वज .
This is the process  by जिससे an औलाद कोशिका or सजीव acquires  or becomes predisposed to the characteristics of its parent cell or organism .
Through heredity , variations exhibited by  individuals can accumulate और कारण कुछ प्रजाति  to evolve .
The study of  आनुवंशिकता in जीवविज्ञान is पुकारा आनुवंशिकी , जिससे  includes the field of epigenetics .
For United States individual income tax , adjusted gross income  ( agi )  is total gross income minus specific reductions .
taxable आय is समायोजित सकल आय  minus allowances for personal exemptions and itemized deductions .
For  सबसे व्यक्तिगत कर उद्देश्य  , AGI is more relevant than gross income .
Gross income is  बिक्री दाम of goods  or property , minus cost of the property sold , plus other income .
It includes wages , interest , dividends , business income , rental  आय , और सब अन्य प्रकार  of income .
Adjusted gross income is  सकल आय कम deductions इससे a कारोबार or  rental activity and 21 other specific items .
Several deductions ( e.g . medical expenses and  विविध itemized  deductions ) are limited based on a percentage of AGI .
Certain phase outs , including those of lower tax rates and itemized deductions , are  आधारित on स्तर  of AGI .
Many states base state income  कर on agi साथ निश्चित deductions  .
``  आलसी नजर '' is the तीसरा सिंगल इससे  Silversun Pickups ' debut album Carnavas .
The band performed the song on the Late Show with David Letterman , The Tonight Show with Jay Leno ,  बाद साथ jools हॉलैंड , और पिछला कॉल  with Carson Daly .
the सोंग is a playable track  on Rock Band 2 and Guitar Hero : World Tour .
An alternate version of the song , with a  लंबाई of 7:27 , थी निभाई on xmu पहले the shorter  version was played on FM and other XM channels .
This version was featured on  उनके डेमो cd ( जिससे प्रदर्शित जल्दी  versions of four tracks ) .
A telephone prefix is the first set of digits of a telephone number ; in the North  अमरीकी क्रमांकन योजना देशों ( देश  code 1 ) , it is the first three digits of a seven-digit phone number .
In other countries both the prefix and the number  may have अलग lengths  .
It shows  जिससे एक्सचेंज  the remaining numbers refer to .
A full telephone number is usually made up of country code ( required for international calls only ) , area code ( required for calls between  टेलीफोन क्षेत्रों ) , उपसर्ग , और सदस्य क्रमांक  .
Some places restrict certain  prefixes to फैक्स संख्याएँ or कोशिका  phones only ; in other places such dedicated prefixes are not used .
As telephone technology advanced , the precise significance of the prefix  became धुंधला in अनेक स्थान ; 485 in लंदन , uk , थी एकबार the gulliver एक्सचेंज  , but now 44207485xxxx is just considered one of many number blocks served by the CLKEN Kentish Town exchange ; 4420770703xx is another .
metformin ( bp , सुनाया , ; originally  sold as Glucophage ) is an oral antidiabetic drug in the biguanide class .
It is the  first-line ड्रग of चुनाव लिये the उपचार of प्रकार 2 मधुमेह , in particular  , in overweight and obese people and those with normal kidney function .
Its use in gestational  मधुमेह रै महरूम सीमित by सुरक्षा  concerns .
It is also used in the treatment of polycystic ovary syndrome ,  और रै महरूम investigated लिये अन्य रोगों जहाँ इंसुलिन  resistance may be an important factor .
Metformin works by suppressing glucose  उत्पादन by the जिगर  .
Metformin is the  तभी antidiabetic ड्रग कि रै महरूम conclusively दिखाया  to prevent the cardiovascular complications of diabetes .
It helps reduce LDL cholesterol and  triglyceride स्तर , और is नहीं संबद्ध  with weight gain .
, metformin is one of only two oral antidiabetics in the World Health Organization Model List of Essential  दवाइयाँ ( the अन्य होने glibenclamide  ) .
When prescribed appropriately ,  metformin कल्याणकारी few प्रतिकूल प्रभाव ( the सबसे आम is जठरांत्र  upset ) and is associated with a low risk of hypoglycemia .
Lactic acidosis ( a buildup of lactate in the blood ) can be a serious  चिंता in overdose और जब it is विहित to लोगों साथ contraindications , लकिन वरना ,  there is no significant risk .
First  synthesized और मिला to reduce रक्त  sugar in the 1920s , metformin was forgotten for the next two decades as research shifted to insulin and other antidiabetic drugs .
Interest in  metformin थी rekindled in the लेट 1940s बाद अनेक रिपोर्ट्स कि it could reduce रक्त शुगर स्तर in लोगों , और in 1957 , फ्रेंच चिकित्सक  Jean Sterne published the first clinical trial of metformin as a treatment for diabetes .
It was introduced to the United Kingdom in 1958 , Canada in 1972 , and the  संयुक्त राज्य in 1995  .
Metformin is  अभी believed to be the सबसे widely विहित antidiabetic ड्रग in the संसार ; in the संयुक्त राज्य  alone , more than 48 million prescriptions were filled in 2010 for its generic formulations .
The Mount Rushmore National Memorial is a sculpture carved into the granite face of  माउंट rushmore निकट keystone , दक्षिण डकोटा , in the संयुक्त राज्य  .
Sculpted by Danish-American Gutzon Borglum and his son , Lincoln Borglum , Mount Rushmore features sculptures  of the heads of चार संयुक्त राज्य राष्ट्रपतियों : जार्ज वॉशिंगटन , थामस जेफरसन , थियोडोर  Roosevelt and Abraham Lincoln .
The entire memorial  कवर और is ऊपर  sea level .
The  tallest पहाड़  in the region is Harney Peak ( ) .
South Dakota historian Doane Robinson is credited with  conceiving the विचार of नक्काशी the likenesses of  famous people into the Black Hills region of South Dakota in order to promote tourism in the region .
Robinson 's initial idea  थी to sculpt the needles ; however , gutzon borglum अस्वीकृत the needles साईट क्युकी of the ग़रीब विशेषता  of the granite and strong opposition from environmentalists and Native American groups .
They settled on the Mount Rushmore location , which also has the  लाभ of facing southeast  for maximum sun exposure .
Robinson wanted it to feature western heroes like Lewis and Clark , Red Cloud and Buffalo Bill Cody but Borglum decided the  मूर्तिकला चाहिए have a अधिक नेशनल फ़ोकस , और chose the चार राष्ट्रपतियों जिनकी likenesses  would be carved into the mountain .
After securing federal funding , construction on the memorial began in 1927 , and the presidents ' faces  यहूद समाप्त between 1934 और  1939 .
Upon Gutzon Borglum 's death in March 1941 , his son Lincoln Borglum took  over निर्माण  .
Although the initial concept called for each president to be  चित्रित इससे सिर to कमर , कमी of funding मजबूर  construction to end in late October 1941 .
The U.S. National Park Service took control of the  मेमोरियल in 1933 , जबकि it थी स्टिल अंतर्गत  construction , and has managed the memorial to the present day .
It attracts nearly  तीन लाख लोगों  annually .
Charvet dress  कमीज़ इससे the 1930s , norsk folkemuseum  , Oslo .
A shirt , dress shirt , button-front ,  button-front कमीज़ , or  button-up shirt is a garment with a collar , a full-length opening at the front from the collar to the hem , and sleeves with cuffs .
Shirts are predominantly used by men , since  महिलाओं प्रायः पहनें blouses  .
The front opening is fastened using buttons or studs ,  और the cuffs बंद साथ बटन or  cuff links .
Shirts are normally made from woven cloth , and are often  accompanied by a जैकेट और टाई , लिये उदाहरण साथ  a suit or formalwear , but shirts are also worn more casually .
In British English , dress  कमीज़ अर्थात् specifically the अधिक औपचारिक  evening garment worn with black- or white- tie , also discussed below .
Some of these formal shirts have stiff fronts and detachable collars  संलग्न साथ कॉलर  studs .
The term `` button-down '' (  जिससे refers a प्रकार of कमीज़ जिससे  has a collar fastened down by buttons ) is sometimes used in error to apply to all shirts ( with or without buttoned down collars ) , being used as a synonym for `` button-up '' or `` button-front '' .
Administrative Professionals Day ( also known as  secretaries दिन or एडमिन दिन ) is an unofficial धर्मनिरपेक्ष अवकाश observed in अनेक देशों to recognize the कार्य of secretaries , प्रशासनिक  assistants , receptionists , and other administrative support professionals .
In North America , it is celebrated on the Wednesday of the last  पूरा सप्ताह of अप्रैल ( अप्रैल 24  in 2013 ) .
In France it is  मनाये on the तीसरा गुरुवार in अप्रैल  ( April 18 in 2013 ) .
In Australia it is celebrated on  the पहला शुक्रवार  in May
धमाकेदार can be:
अक्खड़ धमाकेदार
धमाका  furnace
चट्टान धमाकेदार
Nicolas  poussin ( ; 15 जून 1594 – 19 नवम्बर 1665 ) थी the अग्रणी चित्रकार of the शास्त्रीय  French Baroque style , although he spent most of his working life in Rome .
His  कार्य is characterized by स्पष्टता , लॉजिक , और  order , and favors line over color .
Until the 20th century he remained a major inspiration for such  classically उन्मुख कलाकारों as jacques-louis दाउद  , Jean-Auguste-Dominique Ingres and Paul Cézanne .
He worked in Rome for a circle of leading collectors there and elsewhere ,  मगर लिये a छोटी काल जब कार्डिनल रिचलू ordered उसे वापस  to France to serve as First Painter to the King .
Most of  उसके works हैं इतिहास paintings of धार्मिक or पौराणिक  subjects that very often have a large landscape element .
Jackie Keith Whitley ( July 1 , 1954Stambler , Irwin , and Grelun Landon ( 2000 ) . - Country Music : The Encyclopedia . - New York : St. Martin 's Press . - p.533 . - ISBN 978-0-312-26487-1.—Carlin , Richard ( 2003 ) . - Country Music :  a biographical शब्दकोष . - नई यॉर्क : routledge - p.427 . - isbn 978-0-415-93802-0.—larkin , कोलिन ( 1995 ) . - the गिनीज ज्ञानकोष of लोकप्रिय म्यूज़िक . - नई यॉर्क : स्टॉकटन दबायें - p.4462 . - isbn 978-0-85112-662-3.—stanton , स्कॉट ( 2003 ) . - the tombstone पर्यटक : संगीतकारों . - नई यॉर्क : जेब किताबे . - p.395 . - isbn 978-0-7434-6330-0.—hicks , जोकर . - `` सिंगर कैथ whitley 's मेमोरी जिंदा through गीतों , प्रेम in घर कस्बा '' . - the केंटकी पोस्ट . - सितंबर 25 , 1991.— '' देश म्यूज़िक स्टार कैथ whitley मुर्दे at 33 '' . - lexington herald-leader .  - May 10 , 1989.——Hurst , Jack . - `` Whitley 's Last Days '' . - Chicago Tribune . - May 14 , 1989.— '' Alcohol Kills Country Singer Keith Whitley '' . - United Press International . - ( c/o The San Francisco Chronicle ) . - May 10 , 1989 . — May 9 , 1989 ) , known professionally as Keith Whitley , was an American country music singer .
Whitley 's brief career in  मुख्यधारा देश म्यूज़िक lasted इससे 1984 जबतक उसके मौत in 1989  , but he continues to influence an entire generation of singers and songwriters .
He charted 19 singles on the Billboard country charts , including five consecutive Number Ones : `` Do n't Close Your Eyes `` , `` When You Say Nothing at All ``  , `` i 'm no अजनबी to the बरसात `` , `` i अचरज do तुम  Think of Me `` and `` It Ai n't Nothin ' `` ( the last two posthumously ) .
statute of  Grand Duchy of Lithuania , written in Polish
A statute is a formal written enactment of a  विधान प्राधिकार कि governs  a state , city , or county .
Typically  , statutes कमांड or  prohibit something , or declare policy .
The word is often used to distinguish law made by legislative  लाशें इससे मामला विधि , decided by न्यायालयों , और regulations जारी by सरकारी  agencies .
Statutes are sometimes  referred to as विधान or `` ब्लैक  letter law . ''
As a source of law ,  statutes हैं माना प्राथमिक प्राधिकार  ( as opposed to secondary authority ) .
Ideally all  statutes जरूर be in सामंजस्य साथ  the fundamental law of the land ( constitutional ) .
This word  is प्रयुक्त in contradistinction to  the common law .
Statutes acquire their force from the time  of उनके ड्योढ़ी , however  unless otherwise provided .
Statutes are of several kinds  ; namely , पब्लिक or  private .
declaratory or remedial  .
Temporary or  perpetual  .
A temporary statute is one which is limited in its  अवधि at the समय of इसके enactment  .
It continues  in फ़ोर्स जबतक the समय of इसके limitation  has expired , unless sooner repealed .
A perpetual statute is one for the  फिराकर of जिससे वहीँ is no सीमित समय , हालांकि  it may not be expressly declared to be so .
If , however , a statute which did not itself contain any limitation is to be governed by another which is temporary only , the former  होगा भी be अस्थाई और निर्भर upon the अस्तित्व  of the latter .
पहले a statute becomes विधि in कुछ देशों  , it must be agreed upon by the highest executive in the government , and finally published as part of a code .
In many countries , statutes  हैं व्यवस्थित in topical इंतजाम ( or `` संहिताबद्ध  '' ) within publications called codes , such as the United States Code .
In many nations statutory law is distinguished  इससे और अधीनस्थ  to constitutional law .
The external iliac arteries are two major arteries which bifurcate off the common  iliac धमनियों अग्रवर्ती to the sacroiliac  joint of the pelvis .
They proceed anterior and inferior along the medial border  of the psoas प्रमुख मांसपेशियां  .
They exit the pelvic girdle posterior and inferior to the  वंक्षण स्नायु परिचय एक तीसरा laterally इससे the प्रविष्ट पाइंट of the वंक्षण स्नायु  on the pubic tubercle at which point they are referred to as the femoral arteries .
The external iliac artery is usually the artery used to attach the renal  धमनी to the प्राप्तकर्ता of a गुर्दा प्रत्यारोपण  .
Steam is a digital distribution , digital  अधिकारों प्रबन्धन , एकाधिक और संचार मंच  developed by Valve Corporation .
It is used to distribute games and  सम्बन्धित मीडिया ऑनलाइन , इससे छोटी स्वतंत्र डेवलपर  to larger software houses ; in October 2012 , Valve expanded the service to include non-gaming software .
Steam provides the user with  संस्थापना और स्वचालित प्रबन्धन of तन्त्र आरपार अनेक कंप्यूटर , जातियाँ  features such as friends lists and groups , cloud saving , and in-game voice and chat functionality .
The software provides a freely available application programming interface , Steamworks , that developers can take advantage of to integrate many of Steam 's functions within their software  उत्पाद , सहित नक़ल सुरक्षा , नेटवर्किंग और matchmaking  , in-game achievements and micro-transactions , and support for user-created content through Steam Workshop .
Though initially developed for use on Microsoft Windows , the client has expanded to include OS X and Linux versions , and clients with limited functionality on  the प्लेस्टेशन 3 कंसोल और लिये दोनो आईओएस और एंड्रॉइड मोबाईल डिवाइस  .
In addition to being a central hub for gaming software ,  वाल्व रै निर्मित a संस्करण of भाप साथ altered कार्यक्षमता to be प्रयुक्त in  schools for educational software , including a modified version of Portal 2 for teaching science and critical thinking lessons .
, there are nearly 2000 games  उपलब्धियाँ through भाप , और  54 million active user accounts .
As of  जनवरी 2013 , भाप रै देखी over  6.6 million concurrent players .
Steam has an  अनुमानित 50–70 % share of the डिजिटल वितरण  market for video games .
The Steam logo is a stylised left-side fly-crank and rod from the Walschaerts valve gear  of a भाप लोकोमोटिव .
Jerry Lewis ( born March 16 , 1926 ) is an American comedian , actor  , सिंगर , फिल्मी निर्माता , screenwriter और फिल्मी निदेशक  .
He is  ज्ञात लिये उसके slapstick ह्यूमर in फिल्मी  , television , stage and radio .
He was  originally युग्म up साथ डीन मार्टिन  in 1946 , forming the famed comedy team of Martin and Lewis .
In addition to the duo 's popular nightclub work , they starred in a successful series of comedy  films लिये सर्वोपरि तस्वीरें  .
लुईस is भी ज्ञात लिये उसके दान fund-raising  telethons and position as national chairman for the Muscular Dystrophy Association ( MDA ) .
Lewis has won  अनेक पुरस्कार लिये आजीवन उपलब्धियाँ इससे the अमरीकी कॉमेडी पुरस्कार , लॉस  Angeles Film Critics Association , and Venice Film Festival , and he has two stars on the Hollywood Walk of Fame .
In 2005 , he received the Governors Award of the Academy of Television Arts & Sciences Board  of राज्यपालों , जिससे is the उच्चतम एमी पुरस्कार प्रस्तुत  .
On February 22 ,  2009 , the अकादमी of गति चित्र  Arts and Sciences awarded Lewis the Jean Hersholt Humanitarian Award .
The Rhine ( ; ; ) is a European river that runs from the Swiss canton of Grisons in the southeastern Swiss Alps through Germany and eventually flows into  the उत्तर समुद्र coast in the नीदरलैंड्स और is the बारहवीं  longest river in Europe , at about , with an average discharge of more than .
The Rhine and the Danube  formed सबसे of the उत्तरी अंतर्देशीय frontier of the रोमन  Empire and , since those days , the Rhine has been a vital and navigable waterway carrying trade and goods deep inland .
It has also served as a defensive feature and  रै महरूम the आधार लिये क्षेत्रीय और अंतरराष्ट्रीय  borders .
The many castles and prehistoric fortifications along the Rhine  गवाही to इसके महत्व as a  waterway .
River traffic could be stopped at these locations , usually for the purpose of  collecting tolls , by the राज्य कि नियंत्रित कि  portion of the river .
श्री ( सिंहली  )
Sri ( Devanagari : श्री , IAST ; Śrī ) , also  transliterated as sree or shri or श्री is a शब्द of संस्कृत उत्पत्ति , प्रयुक्त in the भारतीय उपमहाद्वीप as विनम्र रूप of पता समतुल्य to the अंग्रेज़ी  `` Mr. '' in written and spoken language , or as a title of veneration for deities ( usually translated as `` Holy '' ) .
Design of complex structures like the International Space  स्टेशन needs in-depth समझना of  Structural Analysis .
Civil engineering is a professional engineering discipline that deals with the design ,  निर्माण , और मेंटेनेंस of the शारीरिक और naturally निर्मित पर्यावरण , सहित works जैसे सड़कें , पुलों  , canals , dams , and buildings .
Civil engineering is the oldest engineering discipline after military  अभियान्त्रिकी , और it थी पारिभाषित to फर्क non-military  engineering from military engineering .
It  is traditionally टूटा into अनेक sub-disciplines सहित पर्यावरणीय अभियान्त्रिकी , भूतकनीकी अभियान्त्रिकी , भूभौतिकी  , geodesy , control engineering , structural engineering , biomechanics , nanotechnology , transportation engineering , earth science , atmospheric sciences , forensic engineering , municipal or urban engineering , water resources engineering , materials engineering , coastal engineering , surveying , and construction engineering .
Civil engineering takes place on all levels  : in the पब्लिक सेक्टर इससे नगरपालिका through to नेशनल सरकारें , और in the निजी सेक्टर इससे व्यक्तिगत  homeowners through to international companies .
कैथरीन dunham  in Tropical Revue
कैथरीन dunham in  Studio
Katherine Dunham in Tropical Review Tropical Review ,  मार्टिन बेक थिएटर
Katherine  dunham wearing नृत्य  costume
कैथरीन dunham  in Cumbia
Katherine Dunham (  जून 22 , 1909 – may 21 , 2006 ) थी an अमरीकी  dancer , choreographer , author , educator , and social activist .
Dunham had one  of the सबसे कामयाब नृत्य करियर in अमरीकी  and European theater of the 20th century , and directed her own dance company for many years .
She has been called the ``  matriarch और महारानी माँ of ब्लैक  dance '' .
During her heyday in the 1940s and 1950s , Dunham was renowned throughout Europe and Latin America and was widely popular in the  संयुक्त राज्य , जहाँ the वॉशिंगटन पोस्ट पुकारा उसके `` नर्तकी कैथरीन the  Great '' .
For almost thirty years she maintained the Katherine Dunham Dance Company , the only self-supported American black dance troupe at that time , and over her long career she  choreographed अधिक than नब्बे व्यक्तिगत  dances .
Dunham was an innovator in African-American modern dance as well as a leader in the field of  नृत्य मानवशास्त्र ,  or ethnochoreology .
Sphagnum is a genus of between 1510 and 3500 species of mosses , commonly  पुकारा peat मॉस due to इसके व्यापकता in गीला habitats जहाँ it contributes  to the formation of peat bogs and mires .
Sphagnum accumulations can store water , since both living and dead plants can hold large quantities of water inside their cells ; plants may  थाम इससे 16-26 टाइम्स as much जल as उनके शुष्क वज़न depending on the प्रजाति  .
The empty cells help  retain जल in drier शर्तें  .
Hence , as sphagnum moss grows , it can slowly spread into drier  शर्तें , forming larger peatlands , दोनो उठाया bogs और कंबल  bogs .
These peat accumulations then provide habitat for a wide array of  peatland पौधे , सहित sedges और ericaceous shrubs , as खूब as orchids  and carnivorous plants .
sphagnum और the peat formed इससे  it do not decay readily because of the phenolic compounds embedded in the moss 's cell walls .
In addition , bogs , like all wetlands , develop anaerobic soil conditions , which  produces धीमा अवायवीय क्षय बल्कि than एरोबिक सूक्ष्मजैविक  action .
Peat moss can  भी acidify इसके परिवेश by लेने  up cations , such as calcium and magnesium , and releasing hydrogen ions .
Under the  सही शर्तें ,  peat can accumulate to a depth of many meters .
Different species of  sphagnum have अलग सहिष्णुता  limits for flooding and pH , so any one peatland may have a number of different Sphagnum species .
Individual peat moss plants consist of a main stem , with tightly arranged clusters of branch  fascicles प्रायः consisting of दो or तीन spreading शाखाओं और दो to चार फांसी शाखाओं  .
The top of the plant , or  capitulum , रै कॉम्पैक्ट क्लस्टर  of young branches .
Along the stem are scattered leaves of  विभिन्न आकार , नामित स्टेम पत्ते  ; the shape varies according to species .
The leaves consist of two kinds of cells ; small , green , living  कोशिकाएं ( chlorophyllose कोशिकाएं ) , और विशाल , साफ , संरचनात्मक  , dead cells ( hyaline cells ) .
the latter have  the large water-holding capacity .
The earliest version of the Network Card  , जारी हस्तचालित बल्कि  than through an APTIS machine .
The first  aptis संस्करण  of the Network Card .
This was used from the start of the APTIS era in 1986/1987 until well into the  1990s , as स्टॉक्स था to be प्रयुक्त up despite the परिचय  of the new-look orange-banded version in 1991 .
The  परिचय of the weekday न्यूनतम किराया कंडीशन in 2002 resulted in a नाबालिग बदलें  : the red `` R '' shows that this is the `` Revised '' version of the railcard .
This version is  स्टिल in  use as of 2007 .
The Network Railcard is a discount card introduced in 1986 by  अंग्रेजों रेल , upon the सृष्टि of उनके संजाल southeast क्षेत्रफल around लंदन  , England .
The card  is intended to प्रोत्साहित अवकाश सफर by रेल by offering  discounts for adults and accompanying children on a wide range of off-peak fares .
The range of discounts available , and the  दाम of the कार्ड , have varied चूंकि  that time , but the card has always been valid for a year 's unlimited use .
It can be purchased by any person aged 16 or over from any staffed National Rail  स्टेशन or रेल नियुक्त सफर एजेंट , by completing an अनुप्रयोग  form - no photographic identification or other documentation is needed to buy or use the card .
It is one of a number of concessionary  किराया योजनाएं उपलब्धियाँ on the अंग्रेजों रेल  system .
The United Nations ( UN ;  फ्रेंच : संगठन देस राष्ट्र unies  , ONU ) is the world 's largest , foremost , and most prominent international organization .
The stated aims of the United Nations include promoting and facilitating cooperation in international law , international security , economic  विकास , सोशल प्रगति , इंसान अधिकारों , सिविल अधिकारों , सिविल लिबर्टीज , राजनैतिक freedoms  , democracy , and the achievement of lasting world peace .
The UN was founded in 1945 after World War II to replace the League  of राष्ट्र , to रोकें युद्धों between देशों ,  and to provide a platform for dialogue .
It contains multiple subsidiary organizations to  carry आउट इसके मिशन  .
At its founding , the UN  था 51 सदस्य राज्य ; as of 2011  , there are 193 .
From its  कार्यालयों around the संसार , the un और इसके specialized एजेंसियों  decide on substantive and administrative issues in regular meetings held throughout the year .
The organization has six principal organs : the General Assembly ( the main deliberative assembly ) ; the Security Council ( for deciding certain resolutions for peace and security ) ; the Economic and Social Council ( for assisting in promoting international economic and social cooperation and development ) ; the Secretariat ( for providing studies , information , and facilities needed  by the un ) ; the अंतरराष्ट्रीय अदालत of इंसाफ ( the प्राथमिक न्यायिक अंग ) ; और the संयुक्त राष्ट्र ट्रस्टीशिप परिषद  ( which is currently inactive ) .
Other prominent UN System agencies include the  संसार स्वास्थ्य संगठन ( जो ) , the संसार  Food Programme ( WFP ) and United Nations Children 's Fund ( UNICEF ) .
The UN 's most prominent position is that of the office of Secretary-General  जिससे रै महरूम आयोजित by बैन ki-moon  of South Korea since 2007 .
The United Nations Headquarters resides in international  territory in नई यॉर्क नगर , साथ further प्रमुख  offices at Geneva , Nairobi , and Vienna .
The organization is financed from assessed and voluntary  योगदान इससे इसके सदस्य राज्य , और रै छह आधिकारिक भाषाएं : अरबी , चाइनीज , अंग्रेज़ी , फ्रेंच  , Russian , and Spanish .
दक्षिण बीच , भी nicknamed sobe , is a पड़ोस in the नगर of मियामी  Beach , Florida , United States , located due east of Miami city proper between Biscayne Bay and the Atlantic Ocean .
The area encompasses all of the barrier  आइलैंड्स of मियामी बीच  south of Indian Creek .
This area was the first section of Miami Beach to be developed , starting in the 1910s , thanks to the development efforts of Carl G. Fisher , the Lummus  भाइयो , और जॉन S. कॉलिन्स , the latter जिनकी निर्माण of the कॉलिन्स सेतु provided the पहला vital जमीन  link between mainland Miami and the beaches .
The area has gone through numerous artificial and natural changes over the years , including a booming regional economy , increased tourism , and the 1926 hurricane , which  नष्ट much of the क्षेत्रफल  .
As  of 2010 , परिचय 39,186  residents live in South Beach .
The United States presidential election of 1960 was the  44th quadrennial अध्यक्षीय चुनाव , आयोजित on मंगलवार  , November 8 , 1960 .
The Republican Party nominated  लाज़िम vice-president रिचर्ड निक्सन , जबकि the लोकतांत्रिक  Party nominated John F. Kennedy , Senator from Massachusetts .
The incumbent President , Republican Dwight D. Eisenhower , was not  योग्य लिये re-election बाद सेवारत  the maximum two terms allowed by the Twenty-second Amendment .
Kennedy  थी निर्वाचित साथ a सीसे of 112,827 मत , or 0.17 % of the  popular vote , giving him a victory of 303 to 219 in the Electoral College , the closest since 1916 .
This was the first election in which  सब पचास of the वर्तमान संयुक्त राज्य  participated .
A number of factors explain why  the चुनाव थी so बंद  .
Kennedy gained since there was an economic recession which hurt the incumbent Republican , and he had the  लाभ of 17 लाख अधिक पंजीकृत डेमोक्रेट than republicans  .
Furthermore , the new votes that Kennedy gained among Catholics almost neutralized the new  मत निक्सन gained among protestants  .
Kennedy 's campaigning skills decisively  outmatched  Nixon 's .
In  the समाप्त , निक्सन 's जोर on उसके अनुभव carried छोटी वज़न , और he wasted उर्जा by  campaigning in all 50 states instead of concentrating on the swing states .
Kennedy used his large , well-funded  अभियान संगठन to जीत the नामांकन , सुरक्षित समर्थन  , and , with the aid of the last of the big-city bosses , to get out the vote in the big cities .
He relied on running mate Lyndon  B. जॉनसन to थाम the  South and used television effectively .
This election is notable as being the first time in U.S. history that two sitting U.S . Senators ( Kennedy and Johnson ) were elected as president and vice-president , a phenomenon that has been repeated once , by  बराक ओबामा और जो बिडेन in 2008 ( in दोनो मामले , the अध्यक्ष थी the younger , अधिक जूनियर सीनेटर  ) .
A poster for a c. 1884 American  उत्पादन of  Macbeth , starring Thomas W. Keene .
Depicted , counter clockwise from top-left ,  हैं : मैकबेथ और banquo मिलें the witches  ; just after the murder of Duncan ; Banquo 's ghost ; Macbeth duels Macduff ; and Macbeth .
Macbeth  is a खेल लिखा  by William Shakespeare .
It is considered one of his  darkest और सबसे शक्तिशाली tragedies  .
Set in Scotland , the play dramatizes the corroding psychological and political  प्रभाव उत्पादित जब इसके समर्थक , the स्कॉटिश रब मैकबेथ ,  chooses evil as the way to fulfill his ambition for power .
He commits regicide to become  किंग और तब furthers उसके moral  descent with a reign of murderous terror to stay in power , eventually plunging the country into civil war .
In the end  , he loses सबकुछ  that gives meaning and purpose to his life before losing his life itself .
The play is  believed to have महरूम लिखा between 1603 और 1607 , और  is most commonly dated 1606 .
The earliest account of a performance of what was probably Shakespeare 's play is April  1611 , जब साइमन forman अंकित देखकर ऐसे a खेल at the ग्लोब थिएटर  .
It was first published  in the folio of 1623 , संभवतः  from a prompt book .
It was most likely written during the reign of James I , who had been James VI of Scotland before he  succeeded to the  English throne in 1603 .
James was a patron of Shakespeare’s acting company , and of all the plays Shakespeare wrote during James’s reign  , मैकबेथ सबसे clearly reflects the  playwright’s relationship with the sovereign .
Macbeth is  shakespeare’s shortest त्रासदी , और tells the स्टोरी of a वीर स्कॉटिश सामान्य नामित मैकबेथ जो receives  a prophecy from a trio of witches that one day he will become King of Scotland .
Consumed by ambition and spurred to action by his wife , Macbeth murders  किंग डंकन और takes the सिंहासन  for himself .
His reign is racked with guilt and paranoia , and he soon becomes a tyrannical ruler as he is forced to  कमिट अधिक और अधिक हत्याएं to protect खुद इससे enmity और suspicion .
The bloodbath swiftly takes  मैकबेथ और महिला मैकबेथ into realms of arrogance , दीवानगी , और  death .
Shakespeare 's source for the tragedy is the account of King Macbeth of Scotland , Macduff , and Duncan in Holinshed 's Chronicles ( 1587 ) , a history of England ,  स्कॉटलैंड और आयरलैंड परिचित to शेक्सपियर और उसके contemporaries , हालांकि the कार्यक्रम in the खेल  differ extensively from the history of the real Macbeth .
In the backstage world of  थिएटर , कुछ मानना कि the खेल is शापित , और होगा  not mention its title aloud , referring to it instead as `` the Scottish play `` .
Over the  कोर्स of अनेक सदियां , the खेल रै  attracted some of the most renowned actors to the roles of Macbeth and Lady Macbeth .
It has been adapted to film , television , opera , novels  , कॉमिक किताबे , और अन्य मीडिया .
The Milton Hershey  स्कूल is a निजी परोपकारी ( pre-k through 12 ) बोर्डिंग स्कूल  in Hershey , Pennsylvania .
Originally named the Hershey Industrial School , the institution was founded and funded by chocolate industrialist Milton  snavely hershey और उसके बीवी , कैथरीन स्वीनी hershey  .
The school was originally established for impoverished , healthy , Caucasian , male  अनाथ , जबकि आज it serves विद्यार्थी of  various backgrounds .
The Milton Hershey School Trust , which funds the school , owns controlling interest in The Hershey Company  और owns the hershey entertainment और रिसॉर्ट कम्पनी ( herco ) जिससे  oversees many of the area hotels along with a theme park called Hersheypark .
With over six  अरब डॉलर in एसेट , the मिल्टन  Hershey School is one of the wealthiest schools in the world .
the स्कूल  is overseen by a Board of Managers .
The school currently serves 1,818 students  , और योजनाएँ to grow to 2,100 विद्यार्थी  by 2013 .
a सदस्य of कोर : गठबन्धन लिये आवासीय शिक्षा  , it is the largest residential education program in the US .
Epub may  refer to:
EPUB  , a फ़्री और खोलें  e-book standard
Electronic article , articles in scholarly  जर्नल्स or मैगज़ीन कि can be पहुँचा via इलेक्ट्रॉनिक  transmission
The Controlled Substances Act ( CSA ) was enacted into law by the  कॉंग्रेस of the संयुक्त राज्य as शीर्षक ii of  the Comprehensive Drug Abuse Prevention and Control Act of 1970 .
The CSA is the  संघीय u.S.  drug policy under which the manufacture , importation , possession , use and distribution of certain substances is regulated .
The Act also served as the national  implementing विधान लिये the सिंगल सम्मेलन  on Narcotic Drugs .
The legislation created five Schedules (  classifications ) , साथ varying योग्यता लिये a पदार्थ  to be included in each .
Two federal agencies , the Drug Enforcement Administration and the  खाना और ड्रग प्रशासन , determine जिससे substances हैं added to or removed इससे the विभिन्न schedules , हालांकि the statute passed by कॉंग्रेस निर्मित the आरंभिक लिस्टिंग , और कॉंग्रेस रै sometimes अनुसूचित अन्य substances through विधान  such as the Hillory J. Farias and Samantha Reid Date-Rape Prevention Act of 2000 , which placed gamma hydroxybutyrate in Schedule I . Classification decisions are required to be made on criteria including potential for abuse ( an undefined term ) , currently accepted medical use in treatment in the United States , and international treaties .
Second-language acquisition or second-language  सीखना is the प्रक्रम by जिससे लोगों सीख a दूसरी  language .
second-language अधिग्रहण ( प्रायः abbreviated  to SLA ) also refers to the scientific discipline devoted to studying that process .
Second language refers to any language learned in addition to a person 's first language ; although the concept is named  second-language अधिग्रहण , it can भी चरितार्थ the सीखना of तीसरा  , fourth , or subsequent languages .
Second-language  अधिग्रहण refers to कया learners  do ; it does not refer to practices in language teaching .
the अकादमिक अनुशासन of second-language  acquisition is a subdiscipline of applied linguistics .
It is  broad-based और  relatively new .
As well as the various branches of  भाषाविज्ञान , second-language अधिग्रहण is भी  closely related to psychology , cognitive psychology , and education .
To separate the academic discipline from the learning process itself , the  शर्तें second-language अधिग्रहण शोध , second-language अध्ययन , और second-language  acquisition studies are also used .
SLA research began as an interdisciplinary field , and  क्युकी of इस it is मुश्किल to पहचानो a precise starting  date .
However , it does appear to have  विकसित a ग्रेट सौदे चूंकि the mid-1960s  .
The term acquisition was originally used to  emphasize the अवचेतन प्रकृति of the  learning process , but in recent years learning and acquisition have become largely synonymous .
second-language अधिग्रहण can चरितार्थ विरासत भाषा  learning , but it does not usually incorporate bilingualism .
Most SLA researchers see bilingualism as being the end result of learning a language , not the process itself , and  देखिए the पद as referring to native-like fluency  .
Writers in fields such as education and psychology , however  , प्रायः उपयोग bilingualism loosely to refer  to all forms of multilingualism .
Second-language acquisition is also not to be contrasted with the acquisition of a foreign language ; rather , the learning of  दूसरी भाषाएं और the सीखना of विदेशी भाषाएं involve the  same fundamental processes in different situations..
There has been much debate  परिचय exactly कैसा भाषा is सीखे  , and many issues are still unresolved .
There are many theories of  second-language अधिग्रहण , लकिन none हैं स्वीकृत as  a complete explanation by all SLA researchers .
Due to the interdisciplinary nature of the field of  second-language अधिग्रहण , इस is नहीं अपेक्षित  to happen in the foreseeable future .
Forbes list of billionaires is an annual ranking  of the संसार 's wealthiest लोगों , compiled और प्रकाशित by फोर्ब्स , an  American national business magazine .
The total net  लायक of प्रत्येक व्यक्तिगत  on the list is estimated , in United States dollars , based on their assets and accounting for debt .
The list  तभी represents प्रत्येक व्यक्ति 's valuation  on a single day , due to daily fluctuations among exchange rates and stock valuations .
The United States Secret Service is a U.S. federal law  प्रवर्तन एजेंसी कि is भाग of the संयुक्त राज्य विभाग  of Homeland Security .
The sworn members are divided among the  खास एजेंटों और the uniformed प्रभाग  .
Until March 1  , 2003 , the सेवा थी भाग of the संयुक्त  States Department of the Treasury .
The U.S.  रहस्य सेवा रै दो पृथक  areas of responsibility:
Financial Crimes , covering missions such as prevention and investigation of counterfeiting of U.S.  करेंसी और u.S. राजकोष प्रतिभूति , और छानबीन of प्रमुख  fraud .
Protection , which entails ensuring the safety of current and former national leaders and their families , such as the President , past presidents , vice  राष्ट्रपतियों , अध्यक्षीय उम्मीदवार , visiting heads of राज्य ,  and foreign embassies ( per an agreement with the U.S. State Department 's Bureau of Diplomatic Security ( DS ) Office of Foreign Missions ( OFM ) , etc . )
The Secret Service 's initial responsibility was to investigate  counterfeiting of u.S. करेंसी , जिससे थी अनियंत्रित following the  U.S. Civil War .
The agency then evolved  into the संयुक्त राज्य ' पहला घरेलू प्रज्ञा  and counterintelligence agency .
Many of the agency 's missions were later taken over by subsequent agencies such as the Federal Bureau of Investigation ( FBI ) , Bureau of Alcohol , Tobacco , Firearms and  विस्फोटक ( atf ) , आव्रजन और कस्टम प्रवर्तन ( बर्फ ) , और आतंरिक  Revenue Service ( IRS ) .
`` Me and Bobby McGee '' is a song  लिखा by क्रिस kristofferson और फ्रेड फोस्टर , originally  performed by Roger Miller .
Others performed the song later , including Kristofferson himself , and Janis Joplin who topped the U.S. singles chart with the song in 1971 after her death ,  बनाना the सोंग the दूसरी posthumous number-one सिंगल in u.S. चार्ट इतिहास बाद `` ( sittin ' on ) the  Dock of the Bay `` by Otis Redding .
Franklin Delano Roosevelt ( or ; January 30 , 1882 – April 12 , 1945 ) , also known by his initials  , fdr , थी the 32nd अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य ( 1933–1945 ) और a सेंट्रल फिगर in संसार कार्यक्रम दौरान the mid-20th सदी , अग्रणी the संयुक्त राज्य  during a time of worldwide economic depression and total war .
A dominant leader of the Democratic  पार्टी और the तभी अमरीकी अध्यक्ष निर्वाचित  to more than two terms , he built a New Deal Coalition that realigned American politics after 1932 , as his domestic policies defined American liberalism for the middle third of the 20th century .
With the bouncy  लोकप्रिय सोंग `` प्रसन्न दिनों हैं यहाँ  Again `` as his campaign theme , FDR defeated incumbent Republican Herbert Hoover in November 1932 , at the depth of the Great Depression .
Energized by his personal  विजय over पोलियो , fdr 's unfailing आशावाद  and activism contributed to a renewal of the national spirit .
He worked  closely साथ अंग्रेजों प्रधान मंत्री विंस्टन चर्चिल और सोवियत सामान्य सचिव जोसेफ स्टालिन in अग्रणी  the Allies against Germany and Japan in World War II , and restoring prosperity to the nation 's economy .
in उसके पहला सौ दिनों in दफ्तर , जिससे began कूच 4 , 1933 , रूज़वेल्ट  spearheaded major legislation and issued a profusion of executive orders that instituted the New Deal —a variety of programs designed to produce relief ( government jobs for the unemployed ) , recovery ( economic growth ) , and reform ( through regulation of Wall Street , banks and transportation ) .
The economy improved rapidly  इससे 1933 to 1937 , लकिन तब relapsed into  a deep recession .
The bipartisan Conservative Coalition that formed in 1937 prevented his packing the Supreme Court or passing any  considerable विधान ; it abolished अनेक of the राहत कार्यक्रम जब बेरोजगारी diminished दौरान  World War II .
Most of the regulations on  कारोबार यहूद ended परिचय 1975–85 , मगर लिये the विनियमन of वॉल गली  by the Securities and Exchange Commission , which still exists .
Along with several  छोटी कार्यक्रम , प्रमुख surviving कार्यक्रम शामिल the संघीय जमा  Insurance Corporation , which was created in 1933 , and Social Security , which Congress passed in 1935 .
As World War II loomed after 1938 , with the Japanese invasion of China and the aggression of Nazi Germany , FDR  दिया दमदार राजनयिक  and financial support to China and Great Britain , while remaining officially neutral .
His goal was to make America the ``  आर्सेनल of लोकतंत्र `` जिससे  would supply munitions to the Allies .
In March 1941 , Roosevelt , with Congressional approval , provided Lend-Lease  सहायता to the देशों लड़ विरूद्ध  Nazi Germany with Britain .
With very strong  नेशनल support , he बना युद्ध on जापानी और जर्मनी बाद the जापानी आक्रमण on पर्ल हार्बर on दिसम्बर  7 , 1941 , calling it a `` date which will live in infamy `` .
He supervised the mobilization of the U.S.  अर्थव्यवस्था to support the अलाइड  war effort .
As an active military leader , Roosevelt implemented an overall war strategy on two fronts that ended in the defeat of the Axis  शक्तियां और the विकास of the संसार  's first atom bomb .
In 1942 Roosevelt  ordered the internment  of 100,000 Japanese American civilians .
Unemployment dropped to 2 % , relief programs largely ended , and the industrial economy grew rapidly to new heights as  लाखो of लोगों स्थानांतरित to नई कार्य in युद्ध centers , और 16 लाख मेन और 300,000 महिलाओं यहूद  drafted or volunteered for military service .
Roosevelt dominated the American political scene not only  दौरान the बारह सालो of उसके प्रेसिडेंसी , लकिन  also for decades afterward .
He orchestrated the realignment of voters that created  the पांचवां पार्टी प्रणाली  .
FDR 's New  सौदे गठबन्धन संयुक्त मजदूर संघ , बिग नगर मशीने  , white ethnics , African Americans and rural white Southerners .
He also  बहकावे the बाद सृष्टि  of the United Nations and Bretton Woods .
Roosevelt is consistently rated by scholars as one of the top three U.S. Presidents ,  साथ साथ अब्राहम lincoln और जार्ज  Washington .
A liberal Democrat , Roosevelt defined his ideological position as ``  a छोटी बाएँ of बीच . ''
Mara Salvatrucha ( commonly abbreviated as MS , Mara , and  ms-13 ) is a transnational दण्ड गिरोह कि originated in लॉस  Angeles and has spread to other parts of the United States , Canada , Mexico , and Central America .
The majority of the gang is ethnically composed of  सेंट्रल अमेरिकी और क्रियाशील in शहरी  and suburban areas .
In the U.S. , the MS-13 has an especially heavy presence in  लॉस एंजिल्स काउंटी और the सैन फ्रांसिस्को खाड़ी क्षेत्रफल in उत्तरी कैलिफ़ोर्निया ; the वॉशिंगटन , d.C. महानगर क्षेत्रों of फेयरफैक्स काउंटी , वर्जिनिया , मोंटगोमरी काउंटी , मेरीलैंड  , and Prince George 's County , Maryland ; Long Island , New York ; the Boston , Massachusetts area ; Charlotte , North Carolina ; and Houston , Texas .
There is also a  उपस्थिति of ms-13  in Toronto , Ontario , Canada .
Members of MS distinguish themselves by tattoos covering the body and also  प्रायः the फेस , as खूब as the उपयोग of उनके अपना  sign language .
They are notorious for their use of violence and a subcultural moral code that predominantly consists of merciless  बदला और बेदर्द  retributions .
This cruelty of the distinguished  सदस्यों of the `` maras '' or `` mareros '' अर्जित उन्हें a पाथ to be recruited by the sinaloa  Cartel battling against Los Zetas in an ongoing drug war south of the United States border .
Their wide-ranging activities have drawn the attention of the FBI and Immigration and Customs Enforcement , who  have initiated wide-scale छापे विरूद्ध ज्ञात और suspected गिरोह सदस्यों  – netting hundreds of arrests across the country .
Bones is an American crime comedy-drama television  श्रेणी कि premiered on the फॉक्स संजाल in the  United States on September 13 , 2005 .
The show is based on forensic anthropology and forensic  पुरातत्व , साथ प्रत्येक एपीसोड focusing on an एफबीआई मामला संचिका concerning the रहस्य पीछे इंसान remains  brought by FBI Special Agent Seeley Booth ( David Boreanaz ) to the forensic anthropologist Dr. Temperance `` Bones '' Brennan ( Emily Deschanel ) .
The rest of the main cast includes  michaela conlin , T. J. thyne , eric millegan , tamara टेलर  , Jonathan Adams , and John Francis Daley .
Created by Hart Hanson , the series is  बहुत loosely आधारित on the जीवन  and writings of novelist and forensic anthropologist Kathy Reichs , who also produces the show .
Its title character , Temperance  ब्रेनन , is नामित बाद  the protagonist of Reichs ' crime novel series .
Conversely , Dr. Brennan writes successful mystery novels based  around a fictional ( in the हड्डियों ब्रह्मांड ) forensic  anthropologist named Kathy Reichs .
Bones is a joint production  by जोसेफसन entertainment , दूर फ़ील्ड  Productions and 20th Century Fox Television .
The series has completed airing its eighth season and has been renewed for a ninth  ऋतु .
Super Bowl XXV was an American football game between the American Football Conference ( AFC ) champion Buffalo Bills and the National  फ़ुटबॉल सम्मेलन ( nfc ) चैंपियन नई यॉर्क दिग्गज to decide the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग ( एनएफएल ) चैंपियन  for the 1990 season .
The Giants defeated the Bills by the  स्कोर of 20–19 , जीतना उनके दूसरी कभी  Super Bowl .
It is the only  सुपर कटोरी decided by  one point .
The game was held  at tampa स्टेडियम in tampa , फ्लोरिडा  , on January 27 , 1991 , during the height of the Gulf War .
It was thus  निभाई अंतर्गत much patriotic fervor  .
The proceedings included a  rousing rendition of `` the star-spangled  Banner `` by Whitney Houston during the pregame ceremonies .
The Bills and their explosive no-huddle offense were making their first Super Bowl appearance after finishing  the नियमित ऋतु साथ a 13-3 रिकार्ड , और अग्रणी the लीग in  total points scored with 428 .
In advancing to their second Super Bowl , the Giants also posted a  13-3 नियमित ऋतु रिकार्ड , लकिन साथ a ball-control ठोकर और a  defense that allowed a league low 211 points .
The game is best remembered for Bills placekicker Scott Norwood 's last-second field goal attempt which went wide right  of the uprights , अग्रणी to a दिग्गज विजय , और starting a four-game खोने streak in the सुपर कटोरी लिये  the Bills .
The Giants  नियत a सुपर कटोरी रिकार्ड पकड़कर कब्ज़ा of  the ball for 40 minutes and 33 seconds .
New York also overcame a 12-3 second-quarter deficit , and made a 75-yard  touchdown ड्राइव कि खपत  a Super Bowl record 9:29 off the clock .
Giants running back  ottis एंडरसन , जो carried the बॉल 21 टाइम्स लिये 102 गज  and one touchdown , was named Super Bowl MVP .
He was the first awardee to receive the newly  नामित `` पीट rozelle ट्रॉफी '' ( नामित लिये  the former commissioner ) .
Anderson  भी अंकित  one reception for seven yards .
Malcolm X ( ; May 19 , 1925February 21 , 1965 ) , born Malcolm  छोटी और भी ज्ञात as el-hajj malik el-shabazz ( ) , थी an african-american मुस्लिम मंत्री और इंसान  rights activist .
To his admirers , he was a courageous advocate for the rights of blacks , a man who indicted white America in the harshest terms for its crimes  विरूद्ध ब्लैक अमेरिकी .
Detractors accused him of preaching  जातिवाद , ब्लैक सर्वोच्चता  , and violence .
He has been called one of the greatest and  सबसे influential अफ़्रीकी अमेरिकी in इतिहास  .
Malcolm X 's father died—killed by white supremacists , it was rumored—when he was  यंग , और at तनिक एक of उसके uncles थी  lynched .
When he was 13 , his mother was placed  in a दिमागी हॉस्पिटल , और  he was placed in a series of foster homes .
In 1946  , at आयु 20 , he गई to थाना लिये  breaking and entering .
In prison , Malcolm X became a member of the Nation of Islam ; after his parole in 1952  , he जल्दी रोज़ to become एक of इसके  leaders .
For a dozen years , Malcolm X was the public face of the controversial group ,  लकिन मोहभंग साथ स्वदेश of islam  head Elijah Muhammad led him to leave the Nation in March 1964 .
After a period  of सफर in अफ़्रीकी और the मध्य ईस्ट , he लौटे  to the United States , where he founded Muslim Mosque , Inc. and the Organization of Afro-American Unity .
In February 1965 , less than a year after leaving the  स्वदेश of islam , he थी assassinated by तीन  members of the group .
Malcolm X 's  expressed मान्यताओं बदला  substantially over time .
As a spokesman for the Nation of Islam he taught black supremacy and  advocated विरह of ब्लैक और श्वेत अमेरिकी —in कंट्रास्ट to  the civil rights movement 's emphasis on integration .
After breaking with the Nation of Islam in 1964—saying of his association  साथ it , `` i किया अनेक बाते  as a [ Black ] Muslim that I 'm sorry for now .
i थी a प्रेत तब ... pointed in a निश्चित दिशा और बताई to कूच '' —and बनने a सुन्नी मुस्लिम , he  disavowed racism and expressed willingness to work with civil rights leaders , he continued to emphasize Pan-Africanism , black self-determination , and self-defense .
The third season of 90210 , an American television  श्रेणी , premiered on सोमवार सितंबर  13 , 2010 .
The CW officially renewed the show for a  तीसरा ऋतु on फ़रवरी 16 , 2010 .
With the reveal of the networks  पतन 2010 अनुसूची , वे घोषित उनके निर्णय to मूव  90210 to Monday nights at 8:00 pm , as a lead-in to Gossip Girl .
It premiered on September 13 , 2010 and was  मिले साथ generally धनात्मक  reviews from critics .
The season  चयन up at the समाप्त of  summer and focuses on the students senior year of high school .
It follows Adrianna 's rise to fame , a new relationship between Silver and  navid और a उलझन टेडी जो decides to खुलासा  to his family and friends he is gay .
It also deals with  the aftermath of नाओमी क्लार्क  's assault .
Regular cast members for the season included Shenae Grimes , Tristan Wilds , AnnaLynne McCord , Ryan  eggold , जेसिका stroup , माइकल steger , जेसिका lowndes , मैट lanter , गिलियन zinser , ट्रेवर डोनोवन और लोरी loughlin  .
Rebecca  sinclair जारी उसके भूमिका  as executive producer for the season .
The  ऋतु premiered to 1.96 लाख  viewers and a 0.9 rating in the adults 18–49 demographic .
christmas-themed एपीसोड `` अवकाश दीवानगी '' , hit ऋतु highs in सब कुंजी demos साथ  2.1 in The CW 's target demo of women 18–34 , a 1.4 in adults 18–34 and a 1.1 in adults 18–49 .
It was also the most  देखी एपीसोड in over a साल साथ  2.2 million viewers tuning in .
The season finale  aired on may 16 , 2011  .
The season averaged 1.75 million live viewers  और a 0.9 वयस्कों  18–49 rating .
It was released on  dvd in the संयुक्त राज्य on  August 30 , 2011 .
Elizabeth II ( Elizabeth Alexandra Mary ; born 21 April 1926 ) is the constitutional monarch of 16 sovereign  राज्य , ज्ञात as the राष्ट्रमंडल  realms , and their territories and dependencies , and head of the 54-member Commonwealth of Nations .
She is Supreme Governor of the Church of England and , in some of her realms , carries  the शीर्षक of defender of the आस्था as भाग of उसके पूरा शीर्षक  .
On her accession on 6 February 1952 , Elizabeth  became सिर of the राष्ट्रमंडल और महारानी regnant of सात स्वतंत्र राष्ट्रमंडल  countries : the United Kingdom , Canada , Australia , New Zealand , South Africa , Pakistan and Ceylon .
From 1956 to 1992  , the क्रमांक of उसके realms varied as  territories gained independence and some realms became republics .
At present , in addition to the first four aforementioned  देशों , एलिज़ाबेथ is महारानी of जमैका , बारबाडोस , the बहामा , हरा , पापुआ नई गिनी , the सुलेमान आइलैंड्स , तुवालू , संत लूसिया , संत विंसेंट और the grenadines , बेलीज़ ,  Antigua and Barbuda and Saint Kitts and Nevis .
Her reign of years is currently the second longest for a  अंग्रेजों monarch ; तभी महारानी विक्टोरिया रै reigned longer at over  63 years .
Elizabeth  थी born in लंदन और शिक्षित  privately at home .
उसके पिता acceded to the सिंहासन as जार्ज vi in 1936 on the abdication  of his brother Edward VIII , from which time she was the heir presumptive .
She began to undertake public duties during  the दूसरी संसार युद्ध , in जिससे वो परोसा in the auxiliary territorial  Service .
In 1947 , she married Prince Philip , Duke of Edinburgh ,  साथ जिसको वो रै चार children : चार्ल्स  , Anne , Andrew , and Edward .
Her coronation service  took प्लेस in 1953 और थी  the first to be televised .
The Queen 's many historic visits and meetings include a  राज्य विज़िट to the गणतंत्र of आयरलैंड और reciprocal विज़िट  to and from the Pope .
The Queen has seen major constitutional  परिवर्तन in उसके realms , ऐसे  as devolution in the United Kingdom and the patriation of the Canadian constitution .
Times of personal significance have included the births and marriages of her children , the births of her grandchildren , the investiture of the Prince of  वेल्स , और the जश्न of माइलस्टोन ऐसे as उसके चांदी , सुनहरी , और डायमंड jubilees in 1977 , 2002 , और 2012 , क्रमशः .
Major events in the Queen 's reign have included the Troubles in Northern  आयरलैंड , the falklands युद्ध , युद्धों साथ इराकी और the युद्ध  in Afghanistan .
There have been times of personal sorrow for her which include the death of her father at 56 , the assassination  of प्रिंस फिलिप 's ताऊ , रब माउंटबेटन , the विश्लेषण of उसके children 's विवाह in 1992 ( a साल deemed उसके annus horribilis ) , the  death in 1997 of her former daughter-in-law , Diana , Princess of Wales , and the deaths of her mother and sister in 2002 .
The Queen has occasionally faced severe press  आलोचना of the royal परिवार और रिपब्लिकन sentiments , लकिन support लिये the साम्राज्य  and her personal popularity remain high .
The 2010  संयुक्त राज्य सीनेट चुनाव in फ्लोरिडा took प्लेस on नवम्बर 2 , 2010 साथ साथ अन्य चुनावों to the संयुक्त  States Senate in other states as well as all elections to the United States House of Representatives and various state and local elections .
Republican Marco  rubio , पूर्व स्पीकर of the फ्लोरिडा हाउस of प्रतिनिधि , पराजित स्वतंत्र  Charlie Crist and Democrat Kendrick Meek in a three-way race .
One  पद सीनेटर mel मार्टिनेज थी  elected in a very close race against Democrat Betty Castor in 2004 with 49 % of the vote .
Martinez  घोषित on दिसम्बर 2 , 2008 कि he होता नहीं तलाश re-election to the सीनेट  , and would resign prior to the end of his term .
In August 2009 , Governor  चार्ली crist घोषित कि he होता  appoint his former Chief of Staff , George LeMieux , a Republican , to the Senate seat being vacated by Martinez .
Governor Crist publicly announced  he थी कार्यशील लिये the सीट  in mid-2009 .
At the time he received many Republican endorsements , such as the National Republican Senatorial Committee , Martinez ,  और the 2008 रिपब्लिकन अध्यक्षीय nominee जॉन मैक्केन  .
His support of the  अमरीकी रिकवरी और reinvestment अधिनियम  of 2009 hurt his popularity among conservatives , and candidate Marco Rubio surged .
In April 2010 Crist announced he would drop out of  the रिपब्लिकन प्राथमिक और चलाएं as  an independent .
The National Republican Senatorial Committee withdrew its endorsement  of crist और मांगे a refund of इसके अभियान निधि कि it  provided for the Crist campaign .
कांग्रेसी kendrick नम्र  was the first Democrat to declare his intention to run .
सिकंदर snitker थी the पहला सदस्य of the  Libertarian Party on the ballot for senator in Florida 's history .
उपग्रह दृश्य of  Doha
Doha ( , ' or ' , literally : `` the big  पेड़ '' ) is the पूंजी  city of the state of Qatar .
स्तिथ on the coast  of the Persian Gulf ,
it had a population of 998,651 in 2008 , and is also one of  the  municipalities of Qatar .
Doha is Qatar 's largest city , with over 60 % of the nation 's  जनसांख्यिकी residing in दोहा or इसके surrounding  suburbs , and is also the economic centre of the country .
Doha also  serves as the सीट of सरकारी of क़तर , जिससे  is ruled by Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani .
Doha is home to the Education City  , an क्षेत्रफल devoted to शोध  and education .
Doha was the  साईट of the पहला ministerial-level बैठक of  the Doha Development Round of World Trade Organization negotiations .
The city of Doha held the 2006 Asian  खेल , जिससे थी the largest एशियाई खेल कभी  held .
Doha also hosted the 2011 Pan Arab  खेल और सबसे of the  games at the 2011 AFC Asian Cup .
Doha hosted the UNFCCC Climate Negotiations ( COP 18 ) December 2012 and  होगा मेजबान a विशाल क्रमांक of the venues लिये the  2022 FIFA World Cup .
The  संसार पेट्रोलियम परिषद आयोजित the  20th World Petroleum Conference in Doha in December 2011 .
Paranasal sinuses are a group of four paired air-filled spaces that surround the nasal cavity ( maxillary sinuses  ) , ऊपर the आँखें ( frontal साइनस ) , between the आँखें ( ethmoid साइनस  ) , and behind the ethmoids ( sphenoid sinuses ) .
The sinuses are named  लिये the फेशियल हड्डियों in जिससे  they are located .
Lean manufacturing , lean enterprise , or lean production , often simply , `` Lean ,  '' is a उत्पादन अभ्यास कि considers the व्यय of संसाधन लिये  any goal other than the creation of value for the end customer to be wasteful , and thus a target for elimination .
Working from  the परिप्रेक्ष्य of the ग्राहक जो consumes  a product or service , `` value '' is defined as any action or process that a customer would be willing to pay for .
essentially , झुकना is केन्द्रित  on preserving value with less work .
Lean manufacturing is a  प्रबन्धन दर्शनशास्त्र निकला ज़्यादातर इससे the टोयोटा उत्पादन प्रणाली ( tps ) ( hence the पद  Toyotism is also prevalent ) and identified as `` Lean '' only in the 1990s .
TPS is renowned for its focus on reduction of the original Toyota seven  wastes to improve overall ग्राहक मान , लकिन वहीँ हैं varying perspectives  on how this is best achieved .
The steady growth of Toyota , from a small company to the world 's largest automaker ,  रै केन्द्रित ध्यान on कैसा it रै  achieved this success .
icarly  logo
iCarly is an American sitcom that  airs on निकलोडियन , जिससे  premiered on September 8 , 2007 .
Nickelodeon promoted many episodes so far  ऐसे as `` ido '' , `` ihire an idiot '' , `` ipity the nevel '' , `` idate sam &  Freddie '' , etc . as specials , despite their being regular episodes .
Every  एपीसोड शीर्षक begins साथ a निम्नतर मामला  i which represents the internet , as in `` iCarly '' .
The  दिखाएँ थी मनोनीत लिये  an Emmy award for Outstanding Children 's Program in 2009 .
The series starring Miranda Cosgrove as Carly  शे , a 13-year-old जो becomes  an Internet star .
The series ended on November 23 ,  2012 साथ the  one-hour special episode `` iGoodbye '' .
A total of 7  सीज़न और 109 एपीसोड  were broadcast .
The largest audience of the series was  11.2 लाख दर्शक , साथ the खास  episode `` iSaved Your Life '' premiered in January 2010 .
When Carly ( Miranda Cosgrove ) and her sassy best friend Sam ( Jennette McCurdy ) act funny at a school talent show audition  , tech-savvy फ्रेडी ( नाथन kress ) टेपों it और पोस्ट it ऑनलाइन बगैर  telling them .
After seeing the girls ' strong chemistry and banter ,  the ऑनलाइन दर्शक clamors लिये अधिक  and the iCarly webcast is born .
While grappling with  ठेठ मुद्दे of किशोरावस्था , कार्ली , sam , और फ्रेडी ढूँढें आउट कि वे have भी  become online celebrities as their show – which features talent contests , recipes , problem-solving , and random dancing – garners international accolades .
Carly lives in Seattle , Washington with her 26-year-old brother and guardian Spencer ( Jerry Trainor ) and produces the  दिखाएँ in a makeshift third-floor स्टुडियो मचान in उनके अपार्टमेंट  .
Their mother has never been seen or mentioned , but their father , Steven Shay ( David Chisum ) , is a U.S. Air Force  अधिकारी temporarily stationed on a पनडुब्बी , और is प्रायः उल्लेखित लकिन is  only seen in person during the series finale episode , `` iGoodbye '' .
Westlife were an Irish boy band which formed in 1998  और disbanded in 2012  .
Originally signed by Simon Cowell and  प्रबंधित by लुई वाल्श , the समूह 's फाइनल line-up consisted  of Nicky Byrne , Kian Egan , Mark Feehily and Shane Filan .
Brian McFadden was a member from  1998 जबतक उसके प्रस्थान in 2004  .
Westlife sold over 50 million  रिकॉर्ड विश्वव्यापी , a कुल कि शामिल  studio albums , singles , video releases , and compilation albums .
The group accumulated 14 number-one singles in  the संयुक्त किंगडम ( the third-highest in uk इतिहास ) , tying साथ चट्टान रिचर्ड और  ranking just behind The Beatles and Elvis Presley .
They achieved  a कुल of 26 शीर्ष  ten singles over their 14-year career .
By 2010 ,  westlife थी सूचीबद्ध in the गिनीज संसार रिकॉर्ड  , as the UK 's top-selling album group of the 21st century .
They also won The Record of the Year ( the only music award based on public votes in the UK ) a record-breaking four times and in 2012 , the Official Charts  कम्पनी सूचीबद्ध westlife 34th amongst the biggest-selling singles कलाकारों in अंग्रेजों  music history .
Despite their European and Asian success , Westlife never managed to break into the U.S. market ,  achieving तभी एक hit सिंगल in 2000 : `` कसम it again  `` .
In October  2011 , westlife घोषित उनके इरादे to विभाजित  in 2012 , following their Greatest Hits Tour and the release of their Greatest Hits album .
The boyband 's final concerts were held on 22 and 23  जून 2012 at croke पार्क स्टेडियम in डबलिन  .
The first farewell concert , offering 85,000 tickets , sold out in a  record-breaking 5 मिनट्स और the latter screened सजीव in cinemas विश्वव्यापी  .
Vitamin A is a group of  nutritionally असंतृप्त hydrocarbons , जिससे  include retinol , retinal , retinoic acid and several provitamin A carotenoids among which beta-carotene is the most important .
Vitamin A has multiple  कृत्यों , it is महत्वपूर्ण लिये विकास और विकास  , for the maintenance of the immune system and good vision .
Vitamin A is needed by the retina of the eye in the form of retinal , which combines with protein  opsin to रूप rhodopsin the light-absorbing अणु , कि is जरुरी लिये दोनो  low-light ( scotopic vision ) and color vision .
Vitamin A also  कृत्यों in a बहुत अलग भूमिका as an irreversibly oxidized  form of retinol known as retinoic acid , which is an important hormone-like growth factor for epithelial and other cells .
In foods of animal origin , the major form of vitamin A is  an ester , primarily retinyl palmitate  , which is converted to retinol ( chemically an alcohol ) in the small intestine .
The retinol form functions as  a भंडार रूप of the विटामिन , और can be परिवर्तित  to and from its visually active aldehyde form , retinal .
The associated acid (  retinoic एसिड ) , a metabolite कि can be irreversibly  synthesized from vitamin A , has only partial vitamin A activity , and does not function in the retina for the visual cycle .
retinoic एसिड is प्रयुक्त लिये  growth and cellular differentiation .
All forms of vitamin A have a beta-ionone  रिंग to जिससे an isoprenoid कड़ी  is attached , called a retinyl group .
Both structural features are  अनिवार्य लिये विटामिन  activity .
The orange pigment of carrots – beta-carotene – can be represented as two  कनेक्ट retinyl समूह , जिससे हैं प्रयुक्त in the देह to योगदान  to vitamin A levels .
alpha-carotene और gamma-carotene  also have a single retinyl group , which give them some vitamin activity .
none of the  other carotenes have vitamin activity .
The carotenoid beta- cryptoxanthin possesses an ionone group and  रै विटामिन कार्यकलाप in इंसानो  .
विटामिन a can be  found in two principal forms in foods :
Retinol , the form of vitamin A absorbed  जब खाने एनिमल खाना  sources , is a yellow , fat-soluble substance .
Since the pure  दारू रूप is अस्थिर , the विटामिन  is found in tissues in a form of retinyl ester .
It is also commercially produced and  administered as esters ऐसे as retinyl एसीटेट or palmitate  .
The carotenes alpha-carotene ,  beta-carotene , gamma-carotene ; और the xanthophyll beta-cryptoxanthin ( सब of जिससे contain beta-ionone बजती ) , लकिन  no other carotenoids , function as provitamin A in herbivores and omnivore animals , which possess the enzyme ( 15-15'-dioxygenase ) which cleaves beta-carotene in the intestinal mucosa and converts it retinol .
In general , carnivores are poor converters of ionine-containing carotenoids , and pure carnivores such as cats and ferrets lack 15-15'-dioxygenase and can not convert any carotenoids to  retinal ( resulting in none of the carotenoids होने  forms of vitamin A for these species ) .
Selena Marie Gomez ( born July 22 ,  1992 ) is an अमरीकी सिंगर और अभिनेत्री .
She made  उसके डेब्यू as  a child actress in Barney & Friends .
In 2007 , Gomez came to  prominence as a अभिनीत डाल सदस्य in the टेलीविज़न श्रेणी  Wizards of Waverly Place .
वो हस्ताक्षरित to हॉलीवुड रिकॉर्ड the following  year , and became the founder and lead singer of the pop band Selena Gomez & the Scene .
Their studio albums Kiss & Tell ( 2009 ) , A Year Without Rain ( 2010 ) , and When the Sun Goes Down ( 2011 ) were certified Gold by the Recording Industry Association of America ( RIAA  ) और have शाखित platinum-certified singles `` naturally `` , ``  Who Says `` , and `` Love You like a Love Song `` .
After the  रिलीज of टेलीविज़न films और उनके accompanying soundtracks , गोमेज़ बना उसके नाट्य  film debut in Ramona and Beezus in 2010 and starred in Monte Carlo in 2011 .
Upon the conclusion of Wizards of Waverly Place and the hiatus of Selena Gomez  & the झाँकी in 2012 , वो केन्द्रित on उसके फिल्मी करियर , सेवारत as a आवाज़ अभिनेत्री  in Hotel Transylvania and starring in Spring Breakers the following year .
उसके डेब्यू सोलो एल्बम is tentatively अनुसूचित  to be released in summer 2013 , and is preceded by its lead single `` Come & Get It `` .
Outside of her  कार्य in the entertainment उद्योग , गोमेज़ is शामिल  in philanthropic activities through charity work and various social and environmental causes .
Tracie Monique Spencer ( born July 12 , 1976 )  is an अमरीकी r & b और पॉप singer-songwriter  , actress , and model .
Sacramento is the capital city of the U.S. state of California and the seat of  सरकारी of sacramento  County .
It is located at the confluence of the Sacramento River and the American River in the  उत्तरी portion of कैलिफ़ोर्निया 's expansive  Central Valley .
With an estimated 2011 population of 477,891 , it is the sixth-largest city  in कैलिफ़ोर्निया और the 35th largest नगर in the संयुक्त राज्य  .
Sacramento is the core cultural and economic center of the Sacramento  महानगर क्षेत्रफल जिससे शामिल सात काउंटी साथ an अनुमानित 2009  population of 2,527,123 .
Its metropolitan area is the fourth largest in California after the Greater  लॉस एंजिल्स क्षेत्रफल , सैन फ्रांसिस्को खाड़ी क्षेत्रफल , और the सैन डिएगो महानगर क्षेत्रफल ,  as well as the 25th largest in the United States .
Sacramento was cited by Time magazine as America  's सबसे ethnically और racially  integrated city in 2002 .
Sacramento became a city through  the प्रयत्न of the स्विस अप्रवासी  John Sutter , Sr. , his son John Sutter , Jr. , and James W. Marshall .
Sacramento grew quickly thanks to the protection of Sutter 's Fort ,  जिससे थी स्थापित by  Sutter in 1839 .
During the California Gold Rush , Sacramento was a major distribution point , a commercial and agricultural center , and a terminus for wagon trains , stagecoaches ,  riverboats , the टेलीग्राफ , the टट्टू एक्स्प्रेस , और the पहला transcontinental रेलरोड  .
California State University , Sacramento , more commonly known as Sacramento State or Sac State , is the largest  लोकल विश्वविद्यालयों  .
It is one of the twenty-three campuses of the California  राज्य विश्वविद्यालयों प्रणाली  .
Drexel University  sacramento is स्तिथ in शहर  , Sacramento .
University of  the प्रशांत 's mcgeorge  School of Law is located in the Oak Park neighborhood .
In addition , the University of California ,  डेविस is स्तिथ in आसपास डेविस , वेस्ट of the  capital .
The UC Davis Medical Center  , a world-renowned शोध हॉस्पिटल  , is located in the city of Sacramento .
Memorial Day is a United States federal  अवकाश जिससे occurs प्रत्येक साल on the फाइनल  Monday of May .
Memorial Day is a  दिन of remembering the मेन  and women who died while serving in the United States Armed Forces .
formerly ज्ञात as सजावट दिन , it originated  after the American Civil War to commemorate the Union and Confederate soldiers who died in the Civil War .
By the 20th century  मेमोरियल दिन था महरूम विस्तारित to सम्मान सब अमेरिकी  who have died in all wars .
It  typically marks the प्रारंभ of the गर्मियाँ  vacation season , while Labor Day marks its end .
Many people visit cemeteries and  memorials , विशेषकर to सम्मान those  who have died in military service .
Many volunteers place an American flag on  प्रत्येक संगीन in नेशनल कब्रिस्तान  .
By the early 20th century , Memorial Day was an occasion for more  सामान्य expressions of मेमोरी , as लोगों visited the क़ब्रों  of their deceased relatives in church cemeteries , whether they had served in the military or not .
It also became a long weekend increasingly devoted to shopping , family gatherings  , आतिशबाजी , यात्राएँ to the बीच , और नेशनल मीडिया  events .
Annual Decoration Days for particular cemeteries are held on a Sunday in late  वसन्त or जल्दी गर्मियाँ in कुछ ग्रामीण क्षेत्रों of the अमरीकी दक्षिण  , notably in the mountains .
In cases involving a family  graveyard जहाँ रिमोट पूर्वजो as खूब as those जो यहूद मृतक अधिक recently हैं दफ्न  , this may take on the character of an extended family reunion to which some people travel hundreds of miles .
People gather on the designated day and put  पुष्प on क़ब्रों और  renew contacts with kinfolk and others .
There often is a  धार्मिक सेवा और a `` डिनर on the मैदान , '' the परंपरागत  term for a potluck meal in which people used to spread the dishes out on sheets or tablecloths on the grass .
It is  believed कि इस अभ्यास began पहले the अमरीकी सिविल युद्ध  and thus may reflect the real origin of the `` memorial day '' idea .
Memorial Day is not to be confused with Veterans Day ; Memorial Day is a day of  remembering the मेन और महिलाओं जो died जबकि सेवारत , जबकि दिग्गजों दिन मनाता  the service of all U.S. military veterans , living or dead .
Mt . Zion  गिरिजाघर राज्य इतिहास मार्कर  near Philadelphia , Mississippi .
Freedom  गर्मियाँ ( भी ज्ञात as the मिसिसिपी गर्मियाँ प्रोजेक्ट ) थी a अभियान in the संयुक्त राज्य शुभारम्भ in  June 1964 to attempt to register as many African American voters as possible in Mississippi , which had historically excluded most blacks from voting .
The project also set up dozens of Freedom Schools , Freedom Houses , and community centers in small  कस्बों throughout मिसिसिपी to सहायता the लोकल ब्लैक  population .
The  प्रोजेक्ट थी व्यवस्थित by the परिषद of federated संगठन ( cofo ) ,  a coalition of the Mississippi branches of the four major civil rights organizations ( SNCC , CORE , NAACP and SCLC ) .
Most of the impetus , leadership , and  financing लिये the गर्मियाँ प्रोजेक्ट आए इससे the  SNCC .
Robert Parris  मूसा , sncc फ़ील्ड सचिव और  co-director of COFO , directed the summer project .
Blues is the name given to  दोनो a musical रूप और a म्यूज़िक विधा कि originated in समुदायों of primarily the `` गहन दक्षिण ``  of the United States around the end of the 19th century from spirituals , work songs , field hollers , shouts and chants , and rhymed simple narrative ballads .
The blues form , ubiquitous in jazz , rhythm and blues , and rock and roll is  characterized by विशिष्ट कॉर्ड progressions , of जिससे the twelve-bar ब्लूज़  chord progression is the most common .
The blue notes that , for expressive purposes  हैं सुंग or निभाई flattened or धीरे झुकी ( नाबालिग 3rd to प्रमुख 3rd ) in संबंध  to the pitch of the major scale , are also an important part of the sound .
The blues genre is based on the blues form but  possesses अन्य विशेषताएँ ऐसे as विशिष्ट गीत  , bass lines , and instruments .
Blues can be subdivided into several subgenres ranging from country to  शहरी ब्लूज़ कि यहूद अधिक or कम लोकप्रिय दौरान अलग  periods of the 20th century .
Best known are the Delta , Piedmont , Jump  , और शिकागो ब्लूज़ शैलियाँ  .
World War II marked the transition from acoustic to electric blues and the  प्रगतिशील खोलने of ब्लूज़ म्यूज़िक to a wider दर्शक , विशेषकर  white listeners .
In the 1960s  और 1970s , a संकर रूप पुकारा  blues-rock evolved .
The term `` the blues '' refers to the `` blue devils '' , meaning  वेदना और उदासी ; an जल्दी उपयोग of the पद in इस भाव is मिला in जार्ज colman 's one-act  farce Blue Devils ( 1798 ) .
Though the use of the phrase in African-American music may be older , it has been attested to since 1912 ,  जब हार्ट wand 's `` डलास ब्लूज़ `` became the पहला स्वत्वाधिकार  blues composition .
in गीत the phrase is प्रायः  used to describe a depressed mood .
A quarter dollar , commonly shortened to  क्वार्टर , is a सिक्का लायक 1⁄4 of a संयुक्त  States dollar or 25 cents .
the क्वार्टर रै महरूम उत्पादित  since 1796 .
The choice of 25¢ as a denomination , as opposed to 20¢ which is more common in  अन्य भाग of the संसार  , originated with the practice of dividing Spanish Milled Dollars into eight wedge shaped segments ( cf. `` pieces of eight `` ) .
At one time `` two bits `` , i.e . two wedges , each wedge an  आठवीं , यूँ a क्वार्टर of the स्पेनी रियल  , was a common nickname for a quarter .
Day of the Dead ( ) is a Mexican holiday  मनाये throughout मैक्सिको और around the संसार in अन्य संस्कृतियों  .
The holiday focuses on gatherings of family and friends to pray  लिये और याद मित्रों और परिवार  members who have died .
It is  विशेषकर मनाये in मैक्सिको , जहाँ it is  a national holiday , and all banks are closed .
The celebration takes place on  नवम्बर 1 और 2 , in कनेक्शन साथ  the Catholic holidays of All Saints ' Day and All Souls ' Day .
Traditions connected with the holiday include building private  altars honoring the मृतक using शुगर skulls  , marigolds , and the favorite foods and beverages of the departed and visiting graves with these as gifts .
They also leave  possessions of the  deceased .
Scholars  ट्रेस the origins of the आधुनिक  Mexican holiday to indigenous observances dating back hundreds of years and to an Aztec festival dedicated to the goddess Mictecacihuatl .
The holiday has spread throughout the world : In Brazil , Dia de Finados is a public holiday that many  brazilians celebrate by visiting कब्रिस्तान और चर्च  .
In  स्पेन , वहीँ हैं त्यौहार और  parades , and , at the end of the day , people gather at cemeteries and pray for their dead loved ones .
Similar observances occur elsewhere in Europe , and  similarly प्रसंग जश्न  appear in many Asian and African cultures .
ANITA  mk viii  .
The ANITA Mark VII and ANITA Mark VIII calculators  यहूद शुभारम्भ simultaneously  in late 1961 as the world 's first all- electronic desktop calculators .
Designed and  निर्मित by the घंटी  Punch Co .
in Britain , and marketed through its Sumlock  comptometer प्रभाग , वे प्रयुक्त वैक्यूम tubes और  cold-cathode switching tubes in their logic circuits and nixie tubes for their numerical displays .
They were the first of a series of  डेस्कटॉप और hand-held इलेक्ट्रॉनिक calculators कि the कम्पनी  was to develop and sell under the ANITA name into the mid-1970s .
George Washington ( – ,  1799 ) थी the पहला अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य ( 1789–1797 ) , the commander-in-chief  of the Continental Army during the American Revolutionary War , and one of the Founding Fathers of the United States .
He  presided over the सम्मेलन कि drafted the संविधान , जिससे replaced the  Articles of Confederation and established the position of President .
वॉशिंगटन थी निर्वाचित अध्यक्ष as the सर्वसम्मत  choice of the 69 electors in 1788 , and he served two terms in office .
He oversaw the creation of a strong , well-financed national government that maintained neutrality in the wars  raging in यूरोपीय , suppressed विद्रोह , और जीती स्वीकृति among अमेरिकी of सब  types .
His leadership style  स्थापित अनेक फ़ॉर्म और संस्कार of सरकारी  that have been used since , such as using a cabinet system and delivering an inaugural address .
Further , the peaceful transition from his  प्रेसिडेंसी to the प्रेसिडेंसी of जॉन  Adams established a tradition that continues into the 21st century .
Washington was hailed as ``  पिता of उसके देश ``  even during his lifetime .
Washington was born into the provincial gentry of Colonial Virginia ;  उसके धनवान planter  family owned tobacco plantations and slaves .
After both his father and older brother died  जब he थी यंग , वॉशिंगटन became personally और professionally  attached to the powerful William Fairfax , who promoted his career as a surveyor and soldier .
Washington quickly became a senior officer in the  औपनिवेशिक शक्तियां दौरान the पहला चरण of the फ्रेंच  and Indian War .
Chosen by the Second  महाद्वीपीय कॉंग्रेस in 1775 to be commander-in-chief of the महाद्वीपीय फौज in the अमरीकी  Revolution , Washington managed to force the British out of Boston in 1776 , but was defeated and almost captured later that year when he lost New York City .
बाद क्रासिंग the डेलावेयर नदी in the मुर्दे of शीत , he पराजित  the British in two battles , retook New Jersey and restored momentum to the Patriot cause .
Because of his strategy , Revolutionary forces  captured दो प्रमुख अंग्रेजों सेना at साराटोगा in  1777 and Yorktown in 1781 .
Historians laud Washington for his selection and supervision of his generals , encouragement of morale and ability to hold together the army , coordination with the state  राज्यपालों और राज्य मिलिशिया इकाई , संबंध साथ कॉंग्रेस और ध्यान to आपूर्तियाँ , लोजिस्टिक्स  , and training .
In  बैटल , however , वॉशिंगटन  was repeatedly outmaneuvered by British generals with larger armies .
After victory had been finalized in 1783 , Washington  resigned as commander-in-chief बल्कि than seize शक्ति , proving उसके विपक्ष  to dictatorship and his commitment to American republicanism .
Dissatisfied with the weaknesses of the Articles of  कनफेडरेशन , in 1787 वॉशिंगटन presided over the संवैधानिक  Convention that drafted the United States Constitution .
Elected unanimously as the first President of the United  राज्य in 1789 , he attempted to लाओ प्रतिद्वंद्वी गिरोहों  together to unify the nation .
He supported Alexander Hamilton 's programs to pay off all state and national debt ,  to implement an प्रभावी कर प्रणाली  and to create a national bank ( despite opposition from Thomas Jefferson ) .
Washington proclaimed the United  राज्य न्यूट्रल in the युद्धों raging in यूरोपीय  after 1793 .
He avoided war with Great Britain and guaranteed a decade of peace and profitable trade by securing  the jay सन्धि in 1795 , despite तीव्र  opposition from the Jeffersonians .
Although  never officially  joining the Federalist Party , he supported its programs .
Washington 's Farewell Address was an influential primer on republican virtue and a warning  विरूद्ध partisanship , sectionalism  , and involvement in foreign wars .
He retired  इससे the प्रेसिडेंसी in 1797 और लौटे to उसके  home , Mount Vernon , and his domestic life where he managed a variety of enterprises .
He freed all his  स्लेव by उसके फाइनल  will .
Washington had a vision of a great and powerful nation that  होता be निर्मित on रिपब्लिकन लाइनों using संघीय  power .
He sought to use the national government to preserve liberty , improve  अवसंरचना , खोलें the पश्चिमी lands , प्रचार कॉमर्स , मिला a स्थाई पूंजी  , reduce regional tensions and promote a spirit of American nationalism .
At his death , Washington was eulogized as ``  पहला in युद्ध , पहला in सलाम , और पहला in the दिल  of his countrymen '' by Henry Lee .
The Federalists made him the symbol of their party but for many years ,  the jeffersonians जारी to अविश्वास उसके influence और विलम्बित  building the Washington Monument .
As the leader of the first successful  क्रान्ति विरूद्ध a औपनिवेशिक साम्राज्य in संसार इतिहास , वॉशिंगटन became  an international icon for liberation and nationalism , especially in France and Latin America .
Fiscal Year 2012  u.S. संघीय बिता  – Cash or Budget Basis .
Fiscal Year 2012 U.S.  संघीय रसीदें  .
The Budget of the United  राज्य सरकारी प्रायः begins as the अध्यक्ष  's proposal to the U.S. Congress which recommends funding levels for the next fiscal year , beginning October 1 .
However , Congress is the body required by law  to pass a बजट annually और to submit the बजट passed  by both houses to the President for signature .
Congressional  निर्णय हैं governed by नियम और विधान regarding  the federal budget process .
बजट समितियों नियत बिता हद लिये the हाउस और सीनेट समितियों  and for Appropriations subcommittees , which then approve individual appropriations bills to allocate funding to various federal programs .
If Congress fails to pass an  सालाना बजट ( as रै महरूम the मामला चूंकि 2009 )  , a series of Appropriations bills must be passed as `` stop gap '' measures .
After Congress approves an appropriations bill , it is  भेजा to the अध्यक्ष , जो may चिह्न  it into law , or may veto it ( as he would a budget when passed by the Congress ) .
A vetoed bill is sent back to Congress  , जिससे can pass it into विधि साथ a two-thirds  majority in each chamber .
Congress may also  combine सब or कुछ appropriations बिल्स  into an omnibus reconciliation bill .
In addition , the president may  निवेदन और the कॉंग्रेस may pass supplemental appropriations  bills or emergency supplemental appropriations bills .
Several government agencies  provide बजट आंकड़ा और  analysis .
These include the Government Accountability Office ( GAO  ) , congressional बजट दफ्तर , the दफ्तर of प्रबन्धन और  Budget ( OMB ) and the U.S. Treasury Department .
These agencies have  reported कि the संघीय सरकारी  is facing a series of important financing challenges .
In the short-run , tax revenues have declined significantly  due to a कठोर मंदी और कर नीति चुनाव , जबकि expenditures have  expanded for wars , unemployment insurance and other safety net spending .
In the long-run , expenditures related to  healthcare कार्यक्रम ऐसे as medicare और medicaid  are projected to grow faster than the economy overall as the population matures .
New Guinea ( also , Tok Pisin : Niugini , Dutch : Nieuw Guinea , and ; historically : Papua ) is the  संसार 's दूसरी largest द्वीप , बाद ग्रीनलैंड , covering a जमीन  area of 786,000 km2 .
Located in the southwest Pacific Ocean ,  it झूठ geographically to the ईस्ट of the मलय द्वीपसमूह , साथ जिससे  it is sometimes included as part of a greater Indo-Australian Archipelago .
geologically it is a भाग of  the same tectonic plate as Australia .
When world  समुद्र स्तर यहूद कम , the दो  shared shorelines ( which now lie 100 to 140 metres below sea level ) , combining with lands now inundated into the tectonic continent of Sahul , also known as Greater Australia .
The two landmasses became  अलग जब the क्षेत्रफल अभी ज्ञात as the टोरेस  Strait flooded after the end of the last glacial period .
Anthropologically  , नई गिनी  is considered part of Melanesia .
Politically , the western half of the island comprises two Indonesian  प्रांतों : पापुआ और वेस्ट पापुआ  .
The eastern half forms the  मेनलैंड of the देश  of Papua New Guinea .
The island has a population of  परिचय 7.5 लाख , साथ a  very low population density of only 8 inh/km2 .
New Guinea is differentiated from its drier , flatter , and less  fertile दक्षिणी बंटवारा , ऑस्ट्रेलिया , by इसके much उच्चतर वर्षा और इसके क्रियाशील volcanic  geology , with its highest point , Puncak Jaya , reaching an elevation of 4,884 m ( 16,023 ft ) .
Yet the two land  masses share a समान एनिमल fauna , साथ marsupials , सहित  wallabies and possums , and the egg-laying monotreme , the spiny anteater , or echidna .
Other than bats and some two dozen indigenous rodent  genera , वहीँ हैं no pre-human  indigenous placental mammals .
Pigs , several additional species  of चूहे , और the पूर्वज of the नई गिनी  Singing Dog were introduced with human colonization .
The human presence on the island  तिथियाँ वापस at तनिक 40,000 सालो to the oldest इंसान migrations  out of Africa .
Research indicates that the highlands were an  जल्दी और स्वतंत्र बीच of कृषि , साथ प्रमाण  of irrigation going back at least 10,000 years .
Because of the time depth of its inhabitation and its highly fractured landscape , an unusually high number of languages are  बोला on the द्वीप , साथ कुछ 1,000 भाषाएं ( a फिगर उच्चतर than कि of सबसे महाद्वीपों ) having  been catalogued out of an estimated world-wide pre-Columbian total of 6,000 human dialects .
Most are classified as Papuan languages , a generally accepted geographical term  जिससे a अल्पसंख्यक of लेखक थाम to be a जेनेटिक  one .
A number  of ऑस्ट्रोनीशियाई भाषाएं हैं  spoken on the coast and on offshore islands .
In the 16th  सदी स्पेनी explorers खोजा  the island and called it Nueva Guinea .
In recent history western New Guinea was  शामिल in the डच ईस्ट  Indies colony .
The Germans annexed the northern coast of the eastern half of the  द्वीप as जर्मनी नई गिनी in उनके pre–world युद्ध i प्रयत्न to स्थापित themselves  as a colonial power , whilst the south eastern portion was reluctantly claimed by Britain .
Following the Treaty of Versailles , the German portion was awarded to Australia ( which was already governing the British claim , named the  territory of पापुआ ) as a लीग of राष्ट्र जनादेश  .
The eastern half of the island  थी granted स्वतंत्रता इससे ऑस्ट्रेलिया as पापुआ  New Guinea in 1975 .
The western half  gained स्वतंत्रता इससे the डच in 1961 , लकिन became  part of Indonesia soon afterwards in controversial circumstances .
`` The Van Buren Boys '' is the 148th episode  of the sitcom seinfeld , और नाम of a fictional  New York street gang .
Their sign is crossing the hands ,  साथ एक हाथ साथ सब the उंगलियाँ 'up  ' and spread out .
The other hand has all but the thumb and  सूचक उंगली up , लिये a कुल of आठ  ( 8 ) .
The gang is named for the 8th President of the United States , Martin Van Buren (  जो थी the पहला अध्यक्ष इससे नई  York ) .
This was the 14th  एपीसोड लिये the 8th ऋतु  .
It  aired on फ़रवरी  6 , 1997 .
bevo चिह्न
Bevo  थी a non-alcoholic  malt beverage , or near beer , brewed in the United States by the Anheuser-Busch company beginning in the early 20th century .
Bevo enjoyed its  महानतम कामयाबी दौरान the समय of निषेध  , when beer , wine and distilled liquors , were made illegal for thirteen years .
The Anheuser-Busch company started brewing Bevo when alcoholic beverages were  निषिद्ध in 1916 by the संयुक्त राज्य हथियारबंद शक्तियां  .
उत्पादन रोज़ greatly साथ नेशनल निषेध  in 1919 , and Bevo was by far the most popular of the many `` cereal beverages '' or `` near beers '' of the time .
at the शिखर of इसके लोकप्रियता  in the early 1920s , more than five million cases of Bevo were sold annually .
Renard  साथ a मग of bevo ,  depicted in terra cotta on the interior walls of the Bevo building , St. Louis
Labels on the  बोतलों billed  it as `` Bevo the Beverage '' .
The name `` Bevo '' was coined from  the शब्द `` पेय '' और the स्लावी भाषा शब्द लिये बियर `` pivo  '' , and was pronounced `` Bee-vo '' .
Some Bevo advertising featured the character `` Renard the Fox `` ( based on the protagonist of a medieval  फ्रेंच folk-tale ) , और promotional मग साथ इस अक्षर  were manufactured .
In 1930 Anheuser-Busch built a series of boat-bodied cars in its St. Louis shops called  the `` bevo नौकाएँ '' जिससे यहूद प्रयुक्त लिये प्रमोशन  .
Seven are believed to have been  निर्मित on pierce-arrow 8-cylinder chassis  while one surviving example was based upon 1930 Cadillac 353 V8 .
Billboard  विज्ञापन bevo in trenton  , New Jersey , 1917
A contemporary advertisement read ``  कूलिंग और invigorating ,  Bevo the Beverage .
Order  by the मामला इससे अपना पंसारी  , druggist , or dealer . ''
The paper label on the back of the bottle read ``  the all-year-round नरम पेय .
Appetizing -  healthful - पौष्टिक  - Refreshing .
Milk or water  may contain  bacteria .
BEVO  never करता  . ''
Bevo became part of the popular culture of the  समय , और is उल्लेखित in विभिन्न लोकप्रिय गीतों  and Vaudeville skits of the era .
This led to secondary slang uses of the word ; for example , in  अमरीकी सैन्य कठबोली a यंग और अनुभवहीन  officer was called a `` Bevo '' .
The  विश्वविद्यालयों of टेक्सास नामित इसके शुभंकर  `` Bevo '' , a name which has stuck to this day .
Irving Berlin included a paean to the drink , `` You Ca n't  रहो up on bevo '' , in उसके 1917 फौज revue  , Yip Yip Yaphank .
In  the लेट 1920s smuggled बूटलेग  beer and liquor as well as `` homebrew `` , cut into Bevo 's marketshare .
With sales  flattening to 100,000 मामले  by 1929 , Anheuser-Busch stopped production .
The Bevo Mill , St.  लुई , in 2008
The Bevo building , with the Renard character  prominently प्रदर्शित at the किनारे , स्टिल operates as a bottling सुविधा at  their main brewery in St. Louis , Missouri .
The landmark  bevo मिल , constructed by अगस्त  Anheuser Busch , Sr. in 1917 .
it थी बंद in 2009 ,  but it reopened in October 2009 under new owners .
Bevo is also mentioned in the short  स्टोरी `` the हत्यारे `` by  Ernest Hemingway ; as well as in Babbitt by Sinclair Lewis .
Mylanta is an over the counter medication used for  the उपचार of एसिड reflux , heartburn , और gastroesophageal reflux बीमारी  ( also known as GERD ) .
foremilk और hindmilk नमूने  of human breast milk
A glass of  pasteurized गाय मिल्क
मिल्क is a श्वेत द्रव उत्पादित  by the mammary glands of mammals .
It is  the प्राथमिक सोर्स of पोषण  for young mammals before they are able to digest other types of food .
Early- lactation milk contains colostrum , which carries the mother 's  antibodies to the baby और can reduce the रिस्क of  many diseases in the baby .
It  भी contains  many other nutrients .
As an agricultural product , milk is  निकाली इससे स्तनधारियों और प्रयुक्त as खाना लिये इंसानो  .
Worldwide , dairy farms produced  परिचय 730 लाख टन of मिल्क  in 2011 .
India is  the संसार 's largest निर्माता और  consumer of milk , yet neither exports nor imports milk .
New Zealand , the European Union 's 27 member states , Australia , and the United  राज्य हैं the संसार 's largest निर्यातक of मिल्क और मिल्क उत्पाद  .
चीन और रूस हैं the संसार 's largest importers  of milk and milk products .
throughout the  world , there are more than 6 billion consumers of milk and milk products .
Over 750  लाख लोगों सजीव भीतर  dairy farming households .
Milk  is a कुंजी योगदानकर्ता to improving  nutrition and food security particularly in developing countries .
Improvements in livestock and  दुग्ध प्रौद्योगिकी प्रस्ताव significant  promise in reducing poverty and malnutrition in the world .
Motorcycle speedway , usually  referred to as स्पीडवे , is a मोटरसाइकिल खेल  involving four and sometimes up to six riders competing over four anti-clockwise laps of an oval circuit .
Speedway motorcycles use only one gear and have no brakes and racing takes place on a flat oval track usually  consisting of मैल or loosely packed shale  .
प्रतिस्पर्धी उपयोग इस सतह to स्लाइड उनके मशीने  sideways , powersliding or broadsiding into the bends .
On the  सीधा भाग of the track  the motorcycles reach speeds of up .
The exact origins of the  खेल हैं अनजान लकिन वहीँ is प्रमाण of a प्रकार of स्पीडवे रेसिंग होने practised in the यूएसए  before the First World War and in Australia in the late 1910s and early 1920s .
वहीँ हैं अभी दोनो घरेलू और अंतरराष्ट्रीय प्रतियोगिताओं in a क्रमांक  of countries including the Speedway World Cup whilst the highest overall scoring individual in the Speedway Grand Prix events is pronounced the world champion .
Speedway is  लोकप्रिय in सेंट्रल और उत्तरी यूरोपीय  and to a lesser extent in Australia and North America .
A variant of track racing , speedway is administered internationally by the Fédération  internationale de  Motocyclisme ( FIM ) .
Domestic speedway  कार्यक्रम हैं regulated  by FIM affiliated national motor sport federations .
Vitamin D is a group of  fat-soluble secosteroids जिम्मेदार लिये intestinal अवशोषण  of calcium and phosphate .
In humans , the  सबसे महत्वपूर्ण सम्बन्धित यौगिकों  of vitamin D are vitamin D2 and vitamin D3 .
Cholecalciferol (  विटामिन d3 ) और ergocalciferol ( विटामिन  D2 ) are unique as they constitute what we know as vitamin D and can be ingested from the diet and/or supplements .
The body can also synthesize vitamin D ( from cholesterol ) when sun  एक्सपोज़र is पर्याप्त ( hence इसके उपनाम  , the `` sunshine vitamin '' ) .
Although vitamin D is commonly called a  विटामिन , it is नहीं दरअसल an अनिवार्य dietary विटामिन in the सख्त  sense , as it can be synthesized in adequate amounts by most mammals exposed to sunlight .
( Cats and dogs can not  synthesize विटामिन d efficiently  and must receive it in their diet . )
An organic chemical compound ( or  सम्बन्धित नियत of यौगिकों ) is तभी scientifically पुकारा a विटामिन जब it can नहीं be synthesized  in sufficient quantities by an organism , and must be obtained from their diet .
However , as with other compounds commonly called vitamins , vitamin D was discovered in an effort to find the  dietary पदार्थ कि थी lacking in a बीमारी , namely  , rickets , the childhood form of osteomalacia .
Additionally , like other compounds called vitamins , in  the विकसित संसार विटामिन d is  added to staple foods , such as milk , to avoid disease due to deficiency .
उपायों of सीरम स्तर प्रतिबिंबित endogenous संश्लेषण इससे एक्सपोज़र to धूप as खूब  as intake from the diet , and it is believed that synthesis may contribute generally to the maintenance of adequate serum concentrations .
The evidence indicates that the synthesis of vitamin D from sun exposure works in a feedback loop that prevents toxicity but , because of  अनिश्चितता परिचय the कर्कट रिस्क इससे धूप , no सुझाव हैं जारी by the संस्थान of आयुर्विज्ञान , यूएसए , लिये the राशि  of sun exposure required to meet vitamin D requirements .
Accordingly , the Dietary Reference Intakes for vitamin D assume that no  संश्लेषण occurs और कि सब of a व्यक्ति 's  vitamin D is from their diet , although that will rarely occur in practice .
In the liver vitamin D  is परिवर्तित to calcidiol , जिससे is भी ज्ञात as calcifediol ( इन ) , 25-hydroxycholecalciferol , or 25-hydroxyvitamin  D—abbreviated 25 ( OH ) D ; and which is the specific vitamin D metabolite that is measured in serum to determine a person 's vitamin D status .
Part of the calcidiol is converted by the kidneys to calcitriol , the biologically active form of vitamin D. Calcitriol  circulates as a हार्मोन in the रक्त , regulating the विशेषज्ञता of कैल्सियम और फास्फेट in the bloodstream  and promoting the healthy growth and remodeling of bone .
Calcidiol is also converted to calcitriol outside of the kidneys for other purposes , such as the proliferation , differentiation and apoptosis of cells ;  calcitriol भी affects neuromuscular  function and inflammation .
Beyond its use to prevent osteomalacia or rickets , the evidence for other health effects of vitamin  d supplementation in the सामान्य जनसांख्यिकी is असंगत .
The best evidence of benefit is for bone health and a  घटी in मृत्यु in बुजुर्ग महिलाओं .
The Duramax is a General Motors diesel engine family for  light- और मीडियम ड्यूटी ट्रक , designed by  Isuzu .
The 6.6-liter Duramax is produced by DMAX , a joint venture between GM  और isuzu in moraine  , Ohio .
This engine was initially installed in 2001 model year Chevy and GMC trucks  और रै महरूम an विकल्प चूंकि तब in pickups , वैन ,  and medium-duty trucks .
In 2006 , production at Moraine was reportedly limited to  लगभग 200,000 इंजन प्रति साल  .
On May 9 , 2007 , DMAX  घोषित the उत्पादन of the 1,000,000th duramax  V-8 diesel at its Moraine facility .
duramax lml
balto  .
is also  a परंपरागत लिखा संक्षिप्त  for Baltimore , Maryland .
Statue of Balto  in सेंट्रल पार्क  ( New York City )
Balto ( 1919 – March 14 , 1933 ) was a Siberian Husky sled dog who led his team on the final leg of the 1925 serum run to Nome , in which diphtheria antitoxin was  transported इससे anchorage , अलास्का , to nenana , अलास्का , by ट्रैन और तब to nome by श्वान sled to कॉम्बैट  an outbreak of the disease .
The run  is commemorated by  the annual Iditarod Trail Sled Dog Race .
Balto was named after the Sami  एक्सप्लोरर सैमुएल balto  .
Balto died at the  आयु of 14  .
Professor Stephen Hawking , known  लिये होने a सैद्धांतिक physicist , रै appeared  in many works of popular culture .
The Nissan Maxima is a mid-size /  entry-level लक्ज़री car manufactured by  Nissan , marketed as the `` four-door sports car '' .
The origins of the Maxima began in July 1976 as the Datsun 810 , an upscale six-cylinder version of the Bluebird , and was spun into its own  लकीर in 1981 , having महरूम बना लगातार चूंकि तब  .
The `` Maxima '' name was applied  धीरे , शुरूआत in 1981  .
Most pre-2004 Maximas were built in Oppama , Japan , until the current  उत्तर अमरीकी maximas प्रारंभ होने समवेत in smyrna , टेनेसी  .
The ``  उच्चिष्ट '' रै  also been applied to Cefiros and Laurels in various markets .
propolis as छत्ता  sealing
Propolis is a resinous mixture that honey bees  collect इससे पेड़ कलियों , sap बहती , or अन्य वनस्पति स्त्रोत  .
It  is प्रयुक्त as  a sealant for unwanted open spaces in the hive .
Propolis is used for small gaps (  लगभग or कम ) , जबकि  larger spaces are usually filled with beeswax .
Its color varies depending on its botanical  सोर्स , the सबसे आम होने अंधेरा  brown .
Propolis is sticky at and above room  तापमान  , .
At lower temperatures , it  becomes मुश्किल और बहुत भंगुर  .
Steven Tyler ( born Steven  विक्टर tallarico  ; March 26 , 1948 ) is an American singer , songwriter , and multi-instrumentalist , best known as the frontman and lead singer of the Boston -based rock band Aerosmith , in which he also plays the harmonica , and occasional piano and percussion .
He is known as the `` Demon  of screamin ' '' due to उसके ऊँची चिल्लाती  and his wide vocal range .
he is भी ज्ञात लिये  his on-stage acrobatics .
During his high-energy performances , he usually dresses in bright , colorful outfits with  उसके ट्रेडमार्क स्कार्फ फांसी इससे उसके  microphone stand .
In the 1970s , Tyler rose to prominence as the frontman of Aerosmith ,  जिससे released ऐसे पड़ाव मुश्किल चट्टान  albums as Toys in the Attic and Rocks .
In the  लेट 1970s और जल्दी 1980s , टायलर था a  heavy drug and alcohol addiction , and the band 's popularity waned .
He completed drug rehabilitation in 1986 and subsequently maintained sobriety for over 20 years , but had a relapse with prescription painkillers in the late 2000s , for  जिससे he सफलतापूर्वक प्राप्त उपचार in 2009 .
After Aerosmith launched a remarkable comeback in the late 1980s and early  1990s साथ the एल्बम स्थाई अवकाश ,  Pump , and Get a Grip , Tyler became a household name and has remained a relevant rock icon .
As a result , he has since embarked on several solo endeavors including guest appearances on other artists ' music , film and TV  भूमिकाएँ ( सहित as a न्यायधीश on अमरीकी आइडल ) , authoring a bestselling किताब  , and solo work ( including a Top 40 hit single in 2011 ) .
However , he has continued to  रिकार्ड म्यूज़िक और perform साथ एरोस्मिथ  , after more than 43 years in the band .
The band 's latest album ,  म्यूज़िक इससे another आयाम  !
, was released on  नवम्बर 6 , 2012  .
Tyler is included among  रोलिंग पत्थरों 100 महानतम  Singers .
He was also ranked 3rd on Hit Parader  's शीर्ष 100 मेटल vocalists  of All Time .
In 2001 he was inducted  into the चट्टान और फेंकें हॉल of कीर्ति साथ एरोस्मिथ  , and he was the presenter when AC/DC was inducted into the Hall of Fame in 2003 .
In 2013 , Tyler and his songwriting partner Joe Perry will be recipients of the ASCAP Founders Award  और होगा भी be inducted  into the Songwriters Hall of Fame .
The liver  produces यूरिया in the यूरिया साईकिल  as a waste product of the digestion of protein .
Normal human adult blood should contain between 7 to  21 mg of यूरिया नाइट्रोजन  per 100 ml ( 7–21 mg/ dL ) of blood .
Individual laboratories may have  अलग सन्दर्भ सीमाएँ  , and this is because the procedure may vary .
Wayne Fontes ( born February 2 , 1940 ) is a former  अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल कोच और कॉलेज और पेशेवर  football player who was the head coach of the NFL 's Detroit Lions from 1988 to 1996 .
His 67 wins  और 71 नुकसान हैं प्रत्येक the  most for a head coach in team history .
The Jews ( ISO 259-3  israeli उच्चारण ) , भी ज्ञात as the यहूदी  people , are a nation and an ethnoreligious group , originating in the Israelites or Hebrews of the Ancient Near East .
The Jewish ethnicity , nationality , and religion are strongly interrelated  , as judaism is the परंपरागत आस्था of the यहूदी  nation .
Converts to Judaism ,  जिनकी औकात as यहूदियों भीतर the यहूदी ethnos is बराबर  to those born into it , have been absorbed into the Jewish people throughout the millennia .
In Jewish  परंपरा , यहूदी ancestry is  traced to the Biblical patriarchs Abraham , Isaac and Jacob in the second millennium BCE .
The modern State of Israel was established as a  यहूदी nation-state , और defines itself as ऐसे in इसके  Basic Laws .
Its Law of  वापसी अनुदान the सही  of citizenship to any Jew who requests it .
Israel is the only country where  यहूदियों हैं a बहुमत of the  population .
Jews also enjoyed political autonomy  twice पहले  in ancient history .
The first of  ये अवधि lasted इससे 1350 to 586 bce , और encompassed the अवधि of the न्यायाधीशों , the संयुक्त  Monarchy , and the Divided Monarchy of the Kingdoms of Israel and Judah , ending with the destruction of the First Temple .
The second was the period of  the hasmonean किंगडम spanning  from 140 to 37 BCE .
Since the destruction of the  पहला टेम्पल , सबसे यहूदियों  have lived in diaspora .
A minority in every country in which they live ( except  इसराईल ) , वे have अक्सर अनुभवी persecution throughout इतिहास , resulting  in a population that has fluctuated both in numbers and distribution over the centuries .
The world Jewish population reached a peak of 15  लाख prior to the दूसरी संसार युद्ध , लकिन छह लाख  Jews were killed in the Holocaust .
Since then the population has risen again and , was estimated at 13.4 million by the North American Jewish Data Bank ,  or कम than 0.2 % of the कुल संसार जनसांख्यिकी ( roughly एक in प्रत्येक 514 लोगों  ) .
According to this report , about 42.5 % of all Jews reside in Israel ( 5.7 million )  , और 39.3 % in the संयुक्त राज्य ( 5.3 लाख ) , साथ सबसे of the शेष  living in Europe ( 1.5 million ) and Canada ( 0.4 million ) .
ये संख्याएँ शामिल सब those जो consider  themselves Jews , whether or not they are affiliated with a Jewish organization .
The total world  यहूदी जनसांख्यिकी , however , is मुश्किल  to measure .
In addition to issues with census methodology , there are halakhic  विवादों regarding जो is a jew और धर्मनिरपेक्ष , राजनैतिक  , and ancestral identification factors that may affect the figure considerably .
Corpus  christi बारात  .
Oil on canvas by  कार्ल एमिल doepler  .
कॉर्पस domini  redirects here .
लिये अन्य  uses see Corpus Domini ( disambiguation )
The Feast of Corpus  christi ( लैटिन लिये देह of मसीह ) , भी ज्ञात as कॉर्पस domini , is a लैटिन रीति liturgical  solemnity celebrating the tradition and belief in the body and blood of Jesus Christ and his Real Presence in the Eucharist .
It emphasizes  the आनन्द of the संस्था of the eucharist ,  which was observed on Holy Thursday in the somber atmosphere of the nearness of Good Friday .
In the present Roman Missal , the feast is designated the  solemnity of the सबसे पावन देह और  Blood of Christ .
It is also celebrated in some Anglican , Lutheran , and Old Catholic Churches that hold similar  मान्यताओं regarding the रियल उपस्थिति .
The feast is liturgically  मनाये on the गुरुवार बाद ट्रिनिटी संडे or , `` जहाँ the solemnity of the सबसे पावन देह और रक्त  of Christ is not a Holy Day of Obligation , it is assigned to the Sunday after the Most Holy Trinity as its proper day '' .
At the end of Holy Mass , there is often a procession of the Blessed Sacrament ,  generally प्रदर्शित in a  monstrance .
The procession is followed by Benediction of the  धन्य sacrament  .
A notable Eucharistic procession is that  presided over by the पोप प्रत्येक साल in रोम , जहाँ it begins at the archbasilica of st. जॉन lateran  and makes its way to the Basilica of Saint Mary Major , where it concludes with Benediction .
C-reactive protein ( CRP ) is a protein found in the blood , the  स्तर of जिससे वृद्धि in जवाब to सूजन ( i.e . c-reactive  protein is an acute-phase protein ) .
Its physiological role is to bind to phosphocholine expressed on the surface of dead or dying cells ( and some types of bacteria ) in  अनुक्रम to activate the पूरक प्रणाली via the  C1Q complex .
CRP is synthesized by the liver in response to  कारकों released by macrophages  and fat cells ( adipocytes ) .
It is a member of the  pentraxin परिवार of  proteins .
It is not related  to c-peptide or प्रोटीन  C .
c-reactive प्रोटीन थी the पहला  pattern recognition receptor ( PRR ) to be identified .
The start of the systematic European colonization of the Americas is typically dated to 1492 , when a Spanish expedition headed by Christopher  कोलंबस sailed लिये इण्डिया to खोलें व्यापार लकिन inadvertently खोजा the americas  .
यूरोपीय conquest , large-scale खोजी  and colonization soon followed .
Seeing that Europe was preoccupied with many internal wars and was slowly recovering from the many deaths that  the bubonic प्लेग caused , the रैपिड विस्तार at जिससे it grew in माल  and power was unforeseeable in the early 1400s .
The first  रिझाने occurred साथ the caribbean coasts on the आइलैंड्स of हिस्पानिओला  , Puerto Rico and Cuba , and after 1500 extended into the interiors of both North and South America .
In 1497 , sailing from the north on behalf of England , John Cabot landed on the North American  coast , और a साल बाद , कोलंबस 's तीसरा voyage पहुँचे the दक्षिण अमरीकी  coast .
France founded colonies in much of eastern North America , on a  क्रमांक of caribbean आइलैंड्स , और  in South America .
पुर्तगाल colonized  Brazil .
Eventually , the entire Western Hemisphere came under the control of European governments , leading to profound changes  to इसके लैंडस्केप , जनसांख्यिकी , और संयंत्र  and animal life .
In the 19th century alone  over 50 लाख लोगों बाएँ  Europe for the Americas .
The post-1492 era is  ज्ञात as the काल of the  Columbian Exchange .
Keith Richards ( born 18 December 1943 ) is an English musician ,  singer-songwriter और संस्थापक सदस्य of the अंग्रेज़ी चट्टान बैंड  the Rolling Stones .
Rolling Stone  पत्रिका कहा रिचर्ड्स था निर्मित `` चट्टान 's महानतम सिंगल देह  of riffs '' , ranking him 4th on its list of 100 best guitarists .
Fourteen  गीतों रिचर्ड्स लिखा साथ the रोलिंग  Stones ' lead vocalist Mick Jagger are listed among Rolling Stone magazine 's `` 500 Greatest Songs of All Time `` .
Richards ' notoriety for illicit drug use stems in part from several drug busts during the late 1960s and 1970s and his candour regarding  उसके व्यसन to और eventual abstinence  from heroin .
टेस्टोस्टेरोन is a स्टेरॉयड हार्मोन इससे the androgen समूह  and is found in mammals , reptiles , birds , and other vertebrates .
In mammals , testosterone is primarily secreted in the testicles of  males और the अंडाशय of महिलाओं , हालांकि छोटी  amounts are also secreted by the adrenal glands .
It is  the प्रिंसिपल पुरूष sex हार्मोन  and an anabolic steroid .
In men , testosterone plays a key role in the development of male reproductive tissues such as the testis and prostate as well as promoting  द्वितीयक यौन विशेषताएँ ऐसे as increased मांसपेशी , अस्थि द्रव्यमान , और the  growth of body hair .
In addition ,  टेस्टोस्टेरोन is अनिवार्य लिये स्वास्थ्य  and well-being as well as the prevention of osteoporosis .
On average , in adult human males , the plasma concentration of testosterone is about 7–8 times as great as the concentration in adult human females ' plasma , but as the  metabolic खपत of टेस्टोस्टेरोन in males is वृहद , the रोज़ उत्पादन is परिचय 20  times greater in men .
महिलाओं भी हैं अधिक  sensitive to the hormone .
Testosterone is observed  in सबसे vertebrates  .
Fish  मेक a थोड़ा अलग  form called 11-ketotestosterone .
Its counterpart  in कीट is ecdysone  .
These ubiquitous  steroids सुझाएँ कि sex हार्मोन have an प्राचीन  evolutionary history .
Cluster sampling is a sampling  तकनीक प्रयुक्त जब `` प्राकृतिक '' लकिन अपेक्षाकृत  homogeneous groupings are evident in a statistical population .
It is often used  in विपणन शोध  .
In this  तकनीक , the कुल जनसांख्यिकी is विभाजित  into these groups ( or clusters ) and a simple random sample of the groups is selected .
Then the required information is collected from a simple random sample of the  तत्व भीतर प्रत्येक चयनित समूह  .
This may be done for every element in these  समूह or a subsample of तत्व may be चयनित भीतर  each of these groups .
A common motivation for cluster sampling  is to reduce the कुल क्रमांक of साक्षात्कार और  costs given the desired accuracy .
assuming a फिक्स्ड नमूना आकार , the तकनीक  gives more accurate results when most of the variation in the population is within the groups , not between them .
Jamestown is a town in Guilford County  , उत्तर कैरोलिना , संयुक्त राज्य , और is a उपनगरीय of the आसपास  cities of Greensboro and High Point .
The population was  3,382 at the 2010  census .
Natalie Portman ( born Natalie Hershlag ; ; June 9 , 1981 ) is an actress and  मॉडल साथ डुअल अमरीकी और israeli नागरिकता .
Her first role was as an  अनाथ लिया in by a हिटमैन in the 1994 कार्रवाई फिल्मी , लकिन मुख्यधारा कामयाबी आए  when she was cast as Padmé Amidala in the Star Wars prequel trilogy ( released in 1999 , 2002 and 2005 ) .
In 1999 , she enrolled at Harvard University to study psychology while  स्टिल working as  an actress .
She completed her  स्नातक 's उपाधि  in 2003 .
In 2001 , Portman opened in New York City 's Public Theater production of  एंटोन चेखव  's The Seagull .
In 2005 , Portman received a nomination for  the अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन supporting अभिनेत्री और  won the Golden Globe Award for Best Supporting Actress - Motion Picture for the drama Closer .
वो जीती a नक्षत्र पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन मादा प्रदर्शन और  a Saturn Award for Best Actress for her starring role in V for Vendetta ( 2006 ) .
वो निभाई अग्रणी भूमिकाएँ in the  historical dramas Goya 's Ghosts ( 2006 ) and The Other Boleyn Girl ( 2008 ) .
In May 2008 ,  वो परोसा as the youngest सदस्य of the 61st  Annual Cannes Film Festival jury .
Portman 's directorial debut , Eve , opened the 65th Venice International Film  पर्व 's शॉर्ट्स प्रतियोगिता  in 2008 .
Portman directed a  खण्ड of the सामूहिक फिल्मी  New York , I Love You .
In 2011 , Portman won the Academy Award , the Golden Globe Award  , the bafta पुरस्कार , the स्क्रीन अभिनेताओं गिल्ड पुरस्कार , और the स्वतंत्र  Spirit Award for her lead performance as Nina Sayers in Black Swan .
Copper  is a रासायनिक तत्व साथ the प्रतीक  Cu ( from ) and atomic number 29 .
It is a ductile metal with very high  थर्मल और विद्युत चालकता  .
Pure  तांबे is नरम और malleable ; a freshly उजागर  surface has a reddish-orange color .
It is used as a conductor of heat and electricity , a building material  , और a constituent of विभिन्न मेटल alloys  .
The metal and its alloys  have महरूम प्रयुक्त लिये हज़ारों  of years .
In the Roman era , copper was principally mined on Cyprus , hence the origin of the name  of the मेटल as сyprium ( मेटल  of Cyprus ) , later shortened to сuprum .
Its compounds are commonly encountered as copper ( II ) salts , which often impart blue or green colors to  खनिज ऐसे as azurite और फ़िरोज़ा और have महरूम widely प्रयुक्त historically as pigments  .
Architectural  structures निर्मित साथ तांबे  corrode to give green verdigris ( or patina ) .
Decorative art prominently features  तांबे , दोनो by itself और as  part of pigments .
Copper is essential to all living organisms as a  ट्रेस dietary खनिज क्युकी it is a कुंजी constituent of the respiratory  enzyme complex cytochrome c oxidase .
In molluscs and crustacea copper is a constituent of the blood pigment hemocyanin , which  is replaced by the iron-complexed हीमोग्लोबिन in मछली और  other vertebrates .
The main  क्षेत्रों जहाँ तांबे is मिला in vertebrates  are liver , muscle and bone .
In sufficient  विशेषज्ञता , तांबे यौगिकों हैं जहरीला to उच्चतर  organisms and are used as bacteriostatic substances , fungicides , and wood preservatives .
The major  पेशेवर खेल लीग , or बस प्रमुख लीग  , in the United States and Canada are the highest professional competitions of team sports in the two countries .
Although individual sports  ऐसे as गोल्फ़ , टेनिस , और स्वचालित रेसिंग हैं भी बहुत  popular , the term is usually limited to team sports .
The term `` major league '' was  पहला प्रयुक्त in 1921 in सन्दर्भ to प्रमुख लीग बेसबॉल ( एमएलबी  ) , the top level of professional American baseball .
Today , the major northern North America professional team  खेल लीग हैं प्रमुख लीग बेसबॉल ( एमएलबी ) , the नेशनल बास्केट संघ ( एनबीए ) , the नेशनल  Football League ( NFL ) , and the National Hockey League ( NHL ) .
Other notable leagues include Major League Soccer ( MLS ) , the Canadian Football League ( CFL ) , the Arena Football  लीग , प्रमुख लीग lacrosse , the नेशनल lacrosse लीग और the महिलाओं 's नेशनल बास्केट संघ  .
The NFL , MLB , NBA , and NHL are  commonly referred  to as the Big Four .
Each of these is the richest  पेशेवर क्लबों प्रतियोगिता  in its sport worldwide .
The best players can become cultural icons in  दोनो देशों और elsewhere in the संसार , क्युकी the लीग  enjoy a significant place in popular culture in the US and Canada .
The NFL  रै 32 टीमों , और the  others have 30 each .
The vast majority of major league teams are concentrated in the most  populous महानगर  areas of the United States .
Baseball , football , hockey , and soccer  have था पेशेवर लीग लिये over 100 सालो ;  early leagues such as the National Association , Ohio League , and National Hockey Association formed the basis of the modern MLB , NFL and NHL respectively .
Soccer was first professionalized  in 1894 , लकिन लीग suffered greatly  from lack of sustainability and seldom lasted more than a decade .
Soccer 's greatest successes were in the form of the American  सॉकर लीग ( 1921-1933 ) , the असली उत्तर अमरीकी सॉकर लीग ( 1968-1984 ) , the नेशनल पेशेवर  Soccer League ( 1984-2001 ) and , currently , Major League Soccer ( 1996-present ) .
Basketball is a relatively new  विकास ; the एनबीए विकसित इससे the नेशनल बास्केट  League and its splinter group the Basketball Association of America , taking on its current form in 1949 .
Every major league averages 15,000 fans in attendance per  खेल or उच्चतर as  of 2011 .
Meridian Altitude is an  खगोलीय नेविगेशन विधि of calculating  an observer 's latitude .
Earned value management ( EVM ) , or Earned value project/performance management ( EVPM ) is a project management  तकनीक लिये measuring प्रोजेक्ट प्रदर्शन और प्रगति in an उद्देश्य  manner .
Because EVM has  the क्षमता to combine  measurements of :
पैमाना
अनुसूची
and  cost,
in  a  single integrated system , Earned Value Management is able to provide accurate forecasts of project performance problems , which is an important contribution for project management .
Early  evm शोध दिखाया कि the क्षेत्रों of नियोजन और कंट्रोल  are significantly impacted by its use ; and similarly , using the methodology improves both scope definition as well as the analysis of overall project performance .
अधिक हाल शोध अध्ययन have दिखाया कि the सिद्धान्त  of EVM are positive predictors of project success .
Popularity of EVM has grown significantly in recent years beyond government contracting , in which  सेक्टर इसके महत्व continues to वृद्धि ( e.g.  , recent new DFAR rules ) , in part because EVM can also surface in and help substantiate contract disputes .
Colorful  वसन्त  garden flowers
Spring is one of the  चार conventional शीतोष्ण सीज़न  , following winter and preceding summer .
There are various technical definitions of  वसन्त , लकिन लोकल उपयोग of the पद varies according to लोकल जलवायु , संस्कृतियों और कस्टम  .
When it is spring in the northern hemisphere , it will be  पतझड़ in the दक्षिणी गोलार्ध  .
At the spring equinox , days are close to 12 hours long  साथ दिन लंबाई increasing  as the season progresses .
Spring and `` springtime '' refer to the season , and also to ideas of rebirth , rejuvenation , renewal , resurrection , and regrowth , with festivals such as Carnival ,  ईस्टर और holi होने मनाये at इस  time .
Jamestown was a  उपनिवेश in the उपनिवेश of वर्जिनिया ,  the first permanent English settlement in the Americas .
Established by the Virginia Company of  लंदन as `` जेम्स फोर्ट '' on may 14 , 1607 ( o.s . , may  24 , 1607 N.S . ) , it followed several earlier failed attempts , including the Lost Colony of Roanoke .
Jamestown served as the capital of the colony  लिये 83 सालो , इससे 1616  until 1699 .
The settlement was located within  the territory of a राजनैतिक एंटिटी ज्ञात as tsenacommacah , the राज्य of the powhatan  Confederacy , with around 14,000 native inhabitants , and specifically was in part of the subdivision known as the Paspahegh tribe .
The natives initially welcomed the colonists with dancing , feasting and tobacco  ceremonies , और वे provided निर्णायक प्रावधानों और support लिये the अस्तित्व of the colonists , जो यहूद  not agriculturally inclined , although relations with the newcomers also soured fairly early on , leading to the total annihilation of the Paspahegh in warfare within 3 years .
Within a year of Jamestown 's founding , the Virginia Company  brought पॉलिश और डच colonists  to help improve the settlement .
In 1619 , the first documented Africans were brought to Jamestown , though the modern conception of slavery in the future United  राज्य किया नहीं शुरू in वर्जिनिया जबतक 1660  .
When the colony was subdivided  into the असली आठ  shires of Virginia in 1634 , the town became located in the eponymous James City Shire .
The London Company 's second settlement , Bermuda , claims to be the site of the oldest town in the English New World , as St. George 's , Bermuda was officially established ( as New London ) in 1612 , whereas James Fort , in Virginia , was not  to be परिवर्तित into जेम्स  towne until 1619 , and further did not survive into the present day .
In 1699 , the capital was relocated from Jamestown to what is today Williamsburg ,  बाद जिससे jamestown ceased to मौजूद as a उपनिवेश , मौजूदा आज तभी as an  archaeological site .
आज , jamestown is एक of तीन स्थितियाँ comprising  the Historic Triangle of Colonial Virginia , along with Williamsburg and Yorktown , with two primary heritage sites .
ऐतिहासिक jamestowne , the पुरातत्व साईट on jamestown द्वीप , is a सहकारी प्रयत्न  by Jamestown National Historic Site ( part of Colonial National Historical Park ) , and Preservation Virginia .
The Jamestown Settlement , a living history  interpretive साईट , is संचालित by the jamestown yorktown न्यास in  conjunction with the Commonwealth of Virginia .
James Christopher Frey ( born  सितंबर 12  , 1969 ) is an American writer .
His  किताबे a लाख छोटी टुकड़े ( 2003 ) और  My Friend Leonard ( 2005 ) , as well as Bright Shiny Morning ( 2008 ) , were bestsellers .
He was the  विषय of a कांड जब जांचकर्ताओं खोजा कि थाना समय और the extent of निश्चित  injuries were exaggerated in A Million Little Pieces , a purportedly autobiographical account of the author 's struggle with addiction .
Deere & Company , most commonly known by  इसके नाम जॉन deere , is an अमरीकी निगम आधारित in moline , इलिनोइस , और एक of  the largest manufacturers of agricultural machinery in the world .
In 2012 , it was listed as 97th in the  सौभाग्य 500 अमेरिका 's रैंकिंग और 190th in the सौभाग्य  500 Global ranking .
Deere and Company agricultural products , sold under the John Deere name ,  शामिल tractors , combine हार्वेस्टर , कपास हार्वेस्टर , balers  , planters / seeders , sprayers , and UTVs .
The company is also a manufacturer of construction equipment and forestry equipment , as well as a supplier of diesel engines and drivetrains  ( axles , ट्रांसमिशन , gearboxes ) प्रयुक्त in  heavy equipment .
Additionally , John Deere manufactures equipment used in lawn , grounds , and turf  परवाह , ऐसे as walk-behind लॉन mowers , zero-turn लॉन  mowers , lawn tractors , and snowthrowers .
To support the core businesses , John  deere भी provides वित्तीय  services and other related activities .
The company 's slogan  is `` nothing रनों जैसे a deere '' और रै a चित्र  of a leaping deer as a logo , a word play pun on `` nothing runs like a deer '' .
Carl Westby coined the phrase `` Nothing Runs Like a  deere '' लिये a विपणन अभियान to बेचें snowmobiles  .
The company 's products are also identifiable by its distinctive  शेड of ग्रीन पेंट , प्रायः augmented by पीला trim  .
The United States ten-dollar bill ( $ 10 ) is a  denomination of संयुक्त राज्य करेंसी .
The first U.S. Secretary of the Treasury ( 1789–95 ) , Alexander  हैमिल्टन , is फिलहाल प्रदर्शित on the obverse of the विधेयक , जबकि the u.S. राजकोष भवन  is featured on the reverse .
( Hamilton is one of two  non-presidents प्रदर्शित on फिलहाल  issued U.S. bills .
The other is Benjamin Franklin ,  on the $ 100 विधेयक  .
हैमिल्टन is एक of तभी चार लोगों प्रदर्शित on u.S. पेपर करेंसी (  1861 to the present ) who was not born in the continental United States , as he was from the West Indies .
The  अन्य हैं : अल्बर्ट gallatin , स्विट्ज़रलैंड ( $ 500 1862/63 विधिक टेंडर ) ; जार्ज  Meade , Spain ( $ 1,000 1890/91 Treasury Note ) ; and Robert Morris , England ( $ 1,000 1862/63 Legal Tender ; $ 10 1878/80 Silver Certificate ) .
In addition , Kamehameha I , appears  on the 2008 हवाई राज्य  quarter . )
All $ 10 bills issued today are  संघीय आरक्षित टीप  .
The Bureau of Engraving and Printing says the  औसत जीवन of a $ 10 विधेयक in  circulation is 18 months before it is replaced due to wear .
Approximately 6 % of all US  banknotes मुद्रित in 2009 यहूद  $ 10 bills .
टेन डालर बिल्स हैं  delivered by Federal Reserve Banks in yellow straps .
The source of  the फेस on the $ 10 विधेयक is जॉन trumbull ’s 1805 पोर्ट्रेट of  Hamilton that belongs to the portrait collection of New York City Hall .
The $ 10 bill is the only U.S. paper currency in circulation in which the portrait faces to the left ( the $  100,000 विधेयक प्रदर्शित a पोर्ट्रेट of वुडरो विल्सन facing to the बाएँ , लकिन थी प्रयुक्त तभी  for intra-government transactions ) .
Andy Samuel Griffith ( June 1 , 1926 – July 3 , 2012 ) was an American  कर्ता , टेलीविज़न निर्माता , ग्रैमी पुरस्कार -winning  Southern-gospel singer , and writer .
He was a Tony Award  nominee लिये दो भूमिकाएँ , और gained prominence in the अभिनीत भूमिका in निदेशक एलिया कज़न 's फिल्मी a फेस in the भीड ( 1957  ) before he became better known for his television roles , playing the lead characters in the 1960–1968 situation comedy The Andy Griffith Show and in the 1986–1995 legal drama Matlock .
Theresa Penelope `` Terri '' Irwin , ( née Raines ; born July 20 , 1964 ) is an Australian -based , American -born naturalist  , लेखक , the विधवा of ऑस्ट्रेलियाई naturalist स्टीव इरविन और मालिक of ऑस्ट्रेलिया  Zoo at Beerwah , Queensland , Australia .
She co-starred with her husband on The Crocodile Hunter , their unconventional  टेलीविज़न प्रकृति वृत्तचित्र श्रेणी साथ साथ इसके spin-off श्रेणी ,  Croc Files and The Crocodile Hunter Diaries .
She has lived in Australia since 1992  , जब वो शादीशुदा  Steve Irwin .
Andreas Cellarius 's illustration of the  copernican प्रणाली , इससे the harmonia macrocosmica  ( 1660 ) .
Heliocentrism , or heliocentricism , is the astronomical model in which the Earth and planets revolve  around a अपेक्षाकृत stationary सूर्य at the बीच of the सौर  System .
The word comes from the  यूनानी ( helios `` सूर्य '' और kentron  `` center '' ) .
Historically , heliocentrism was opposed  to geocentrism , जिससे लगाई  the Earth at the center .
The notion that the Earth revolves around the Sun had been proposed as  जल्दी as the 3rd सदी bc by aristarchus of samos , लकिन aristarchus 's heliocentrism  attracted little attention until Copernicus revived and elaborated it .
Lucio Russo , however , argues that this is a misleading impression resulting from the loss  of वैज्ञानिक works of the hellenistic era  .
Using  अप्रत्यक्ष प्रमाण he  argues that a heliocentric view was expounded in Hipparchus 's work on gravity .
It was not until the 16th century that a fully predictive mathematical model of a heliocentric  प्रणाली थी प्रस्तुत , by the पुनर्जागरण गणितज्ञ , astronomer  , and Catholic cleric Nicolaus Copernicus of Poland , leading to the Copernican Revolution .
in the following सदी , योहानेस कॅप्लर elaborated upon और विस्तारित  this model to include elliptical orbits , and supporting observations made using a telescope were presented by Galileo Galilei .
With the observations of William Herschel , Friedrich Bessel , and others , astronomers realized that the sun was not the center of the universe  और by the 1920s एडविन हबल था दिखाया कि it थी भाग of a आकाशगंगा ( the मिल्की रास्ता ) कि थी तभी एक of अनेक अरबों  .
Norah Jones ( born Geetali Norah  जोन्स शंकर ; कूच 30 , 1979 ) is an अमरीकी  singer-songwriter , pianist , and actress .
She is the daughter of  भारतीय सितार खिलाड़ी रवि  Shankar and Sue Jones .
She is also Anoushka Shankar 's  half-sister .
In 2002 , she launched her solo music career with the release of the commercially successful and  critically acclaimed एल्बम आइये दूर साथ me , a संलयन  of country music and pop with elements of jazz which was certified diamond album , selling over 26 million copies .
The record earned Jones five Grammy Awards  , सहित the एल्बम of the साल , रिकार्ड of the  Year , and Best New Artist .
Her subsequent studio albums , Feels Like Home , released in 2004 , Not Too Late , released  in 2007 , the वही साल वो बना उसके फिल्मी डेब्यू in my ब्लूबेरी नाइट्स , और उसके 2009 रिलीज the पतन  all gained Platinum status , selling over a million copies and were generally well received by critics .
Jones ' fifth studio album , Little Broken Hearts ,  थी released on अप्रैल 27  , 2012 .
Jones has won nine Grammy Awards and was 60th on Billboard  पत्रिका 's कलाकारों of  the 2000–2009 decade chart .
Throughout her career , Jones has won  numerous पुरस्कार और रै बेची अधिक than 50 लाख  albums worldwide .
बिलबोर्ड नामित उसके the  top jazz artist of the 2000–2009 decade .
Not  to be उलझन साथ  Dimension of a physical quantity .
For other uses , see  आयाम ( बहुविकल्पी  ) .
From left to right , the  वर्गाकार , the घन  , and the tesseract .
The square is bounded by 1-dimensional lines , the cube by 2-dimensional areas , and  the tesseract  by 3-dimensional volumes .
A projection  of the घन is दिए  since it is viewed on a two-dimensional screen .
The same applies to the tesseract , which  additionally can तभी be दिखाया as a प्रक्षेप  even in three-dimensional space .
A diagram showing  the पहला चार  spatial dimensions .
In physics and mathematics , the dimension of a space or object is informally defined  as the न्यूनतम क्रमांक of निर्देशांक  needed to specify any point within it .
Thus a line has a dimension of one because  तभी एक निर्देशांक is needed to बताएँ a पाइंट on  it ( for example , the point at 5 on a number line ) .
A surface such as a plane or the surface of a cylinder or sphere has a dimension of two because two  निर्देशांक हैं needed to बताएँ a पाइंट on it ( लिये उदाहरण , to locate a पाइंट  on the surface of a sphere you need both its latitude and its longitude ) .
The inside of a cube , a cylinder or a sphere is  three-dimensional क्युकी तीन निर्देशांक हैं needed  to locate a point within these spaces .
In physical terms , dimension refers to  the constituent ढांचा of सब स्पेस ( आवाज़ ) और इसके स्थिति  in time ( perceived as a scalar dimension along the t-axis ) , as well as the spatial constitution of objects within—structures that correlate with both particle and field conceptions , interact according to relative properties of mass —and are fundamentally mathematical in description .
These , or other axes , may be referenced  to uniquely पहचानो a पाइंट or ढांचा in इसके रवैया और  relationship to other objects and occurrences .
Physical theories that incorporate time , such as general relativity , are said to work in  4-dimensional `` spacetime `` , ( पारिभाषित as a मिन्कोवस्की  space ) .
Modern  theories tend to be `` higher-dimensional ''  including quantum field and string theories .
The state-space of  क्वांटम यांत्रिकी is an infinite-dimensional  function space .
The concept of  आयाम is नहीं प्रतिबंधित  to physical objects .
High-dimensional spaces occur in  गणित और the sciences लिये अनेक कारण , अक्सर as विन्यास स्पेसेस  such as in Lagrangian or Hamiltonian mechanics ; these are abstract spaces , independent of the physical space we live in .
Fontana ( ) is a  नगर of 200,762 निवासियों in सैन bernardino  County , California .
Founded in 1913 , it  remained essentially ग्रामीण जबतक संसार युद्ध  II , when entrepreneur Henry J. Kaiser built a large steel mill in the area .
It is now a regional hub of the trucking industry , with Interstate 10 and State Route 210 transecting the city from east to west , and  अंतरराज्यीय 15 गुजर diagonally through इसके northwestern quadrant  .
It is home to the largest of the San Bernardino County  प्रणाली पुस्तकालयों , a संवर ऐतिहासिक थिएटर  , a municipal park , and the Auto Club Speedway on the site of the Kaiser Steel Mill .
Fontana also  होस्ट the fontana  Days Half Marathon and 5K run .
This race is the fastest  half-marathon कोर्स in the संसार  .
The U.S. 2012 Census reported  कि fontana 's जनसांख्यिकी थी 200,762 in 2012 , बनाना it the  second most populous city in San Bernardino county county and 14th in the state .
Cowboys Stadium is  a स्टेडियम साथ a retractable  roof in Arlington , Texas .
It serves as the home of the  नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग 's डलास  Cowboys .
It replaced the partially covered Texas Stadium ,  जिससे खोली in 1971 , और परोसा as the  Cowboys ' home through the 2008 season .
It was  समाप्त on  May 27 , 2009 .
The stadium seats  85,000 , बनाना it the तीसरा largest  stadium in the NFL by seating capacity .
The maximum  क्षमता of the स्टेडियम  , including standing room , is 105,000 .
The Party Pass ( open areas ) sections are behind seats in each end  मण्डल और on a श्रेणी of छह elevated प्लेटफ़ॉर्म कनेक्ट  by stairways .
It has the world 's largest  column-free आंतरिक और the चौथी largest ऊँची  definition video screen , which hangs from 20 yard line to 20 yard line .
The facility can also be used for a variety of other activities outside of its main purpose ( professional football ) such as concerts , basketball  खेल , मुक्केबाज़ी मिलान , कॉलेज फ़ुटबॉल और ऊँची स्कूल फ़ुटबॉल प्रतियोगिताओं , सॉकर मिलान  , and motocross races .
कनाडाई इतिहासकारों जबतक the 1980s  tended to focus on economic history , including labour history .
In part this is because Canada has had far  कम राजनैतिक or सैन्य विरोध than  other societies .
This was  विशेषकर सच्चा in the पहला हाफ of the बीसवीं  century when economic history was overwhelmingly dominant .
Many of the most prominent English Canadian historians  इससे इस काल यहूद आर्थिक  historians , such as Harold Innis , Donald Creighton and Arthur R. M. Lower
Scholars of Canadian history were heirs to the traditions that developed in Europe  और the संयुक्त राज्य , लकिन frameworks  that worked well elsewhere often failed in Canada .
the heavily मार्क्सवादी बहकावे  economic history that dominates Europe has little relevance to most of Canadian history .
A focus on  क्लास , शहरी क्षेत्रों , और उद्योग  fails to address Canada 's rural and resource based economy .
similarly , the monetarist स्कूल कि is  dominant in the United States also has been difficult to transfer north of the border .
The study of economic history in Canada became highly focused on  आर्थिक भूगोल , और लिये अनेक सालो the प्रबल  school of thought has been the staples thesis .
This school of thought bases the study of the  कनाडाई अर्थव्यवस्था on the पढ़ाई of प्राकृतिक संसाधन  .
इस दृष्टिकोण रै चूंकि भी become प्रयुक्त बाहर  of Canada in Australia and in many developing nations .
Before the arrival of Europeans , the First Nations  of कया होता become कनाडा था a विशाल  and vibrant trade network .
Furs , tools  , सजावटी वस्तुएं , और अन्य goods  were often transported thousands of kilometres , mostly by canoe throughout the many rivers and lakes of the region .
The early European history of the Canadian economy is usually studied through the staples thesis which argues the  कनाडाई अर्थव्यवस्था विकसित through the शोषण of a श्रेणी of स्टेपल्स कि होता be exported  to Europe .
Carbon-14 , 14C , or radiocarbon , is a radioactive  समस्थानिक of कार्बन साथ a केंद्रक containing 6 protons और 8 neutrons  .
Its presence in organic  सामग्री is the आधार of the radiocarbon डेटिंग विधि pioneered by willard लिब्बी  and colleagues ( 1949 ) to date archaeological , geological and hydrogeological samples .
Carbon-14 was  खोजा on 27 फ़रवरी 1940 , by मार्टिन कामेन और sam रूबेन at  the University of California Radiation Laboratory in Berkeley , although its existence had been suggested by Franz Kurie in 1934 .
There are three naturally occurring isotopes of carbon on Earth : 99 % of the carbon is carbon-12 , 1 % is carbon-13 , and carbon-14 occurs in trace  amounts , i.e. , बनाना up परिचय 1 भाग प्रति खरब ( 0.0000000001  % ) of the carbon in the atmosphere .
The half-life  of carbon-14 is 5,730±40  years .
Carbon-14 decays  into nitrogen-14 through  beta decay .
The primary natural source of carbon-14 on Earth is cosmic ray action upon nitrogen in the atmosphere , and it  is इसलिए a cosmogenic  nuclide .
However , open-air  नाभिकीय परीक्षण between 1955–1980  contributed to this pool .
The different isotopes of carbon do not  differ appreciably in उनके रासायनिक  properties .
This is used in chemical and biological research , in a technique called carbon labeling : carbon-14 atoms can be used to replace nonradioactive carbon , in  अनुक्रम to ट्रेस रासायनिक और biochemical प्रतिक्रियाएँ involving कार्बन अणु इससे कोई दिए सशुल्क  compound .
Lightning is a highly visible form of  उर्जा ट्रांसफ़र
Lightning strikes are  विद्युत discharges on a विशाल स्केल  between the atmosphere and an earth-bound object .
They mostly  originate in thunderclouds और terminate on  the ground , called Cloud to Ground ( CG ) lightning .
However , they may also be initiated  इससे a बहुत लम्बा grounded ऑब्जेक्ट और पहुँचें  into the clouds .
Although `` a lightning strike '' is commonly used to describe all lightning , it is rather erroneous and a misnomer , as only about 25 % of all lightning events worldwide are CG , the  विशाल बल्क of बिजली कार्यक्रम हैं intracloud ( ic ) or बादल  to Cloud ( CC ) , where discharge only occurs high in the atmosphere .
The scientific name for the complete process of a single lightning event is a and it  is a बहुत जटिल , अनेक stepped बातचीत , जिससे is नहीं completely  understood .
Most  cg flashes तभी `` स्ट्राइक  '' one physical location , referred to as a termination .
The primary conducting  चैनल , the उज्जवल coursing लाइट तुम may देखिए और कॉल a `` स्ट्राइक '' , is तभी  about 1 inch in diameter , although to our eyes it looks much larger .
They are miles long ,  upwards of tens of मील  .
And the entire flash , lasts only a few  भिन्नों of a दूसरी , सबसे  of which is not visible to human eyes .
Thunder is always produced  by बिजली  .
Just like lightning , that deceives our eyes , usually  looking larger or करीब than it वाकई is , the धरती 's माहौल और हमारी दिमाग 's बोध of the  outside world , ultimately determines whether it is `` heard '' or not .
Lightning can not happen in a  वैक्यूम विहीन of ions , nor can  thunder occur without molecules to vibrate .
थंडर is a शारीरिक निरपेक्ष  for every single flash of lightning .
Contrary to popular belief , a lightning strike itself  is प्रायः नहीं जिम्मेदार  for multiple deaths or injuries from a single event .
It would be impossible given the natural tendencies of  a फ्लैश , जबतक लोगों or पशु यहूद stacked on  top of each other , or they were somehow arranged vertically and part of the flash channel .
When lightning ignites an available fuel source  और an विस्फोट occurs , it is the शॉक वेव or आग causing  the injuries , not the strike itself .
Ground Currents , also called step potential , of an earth termination is what truly causes  सबसे चोटों or मौत  to humans and animals .
The  निकट instantaneous फटाफट of सतह आरोप , induced by the  overhead thundercloud itself , race to the strike point from hundreds to thousands of feet away during discharge .
इस वर्तमान , caused दौरान प्रत्येक स्ट्रोक , takes  the path of least resistance , which may be ion rich human or animal legs , over poorly conducting earth .
This is why it is best to  crouch , साथ फीट बंद साथ , if कभी caught  in the open during a thunderstorm .
दुर्भाग्यवश , सबसे रिपोर्ट्स do नहीं चित्रण a भेद between the रियल कारण of चोट or मौत  , be it the strike itself , a resulting explosion or fire , or usually responsible step potential .
Peter F. Kilmartin (  born 1962 ) is the वर्तमान  Attorney General of Rhode Island .
Kilmartin is also a retired police captain and a  पूर्व सदस्य of the rhode  Island House of Representatives .
A couple  following उनके विवाह  in the Manti Utah Temple .
Sealing is an ordinance ( ritual )  performed in latter दिन  Saints temples by a person holding the sealing authority .
The purpose of this  अध्यादेश is to मुहर परिचित संबंध  , making possible the existence of family relationships throughout eternity .
LDS teachings place great  महत्व on the  specific authority required to perform these sealings .
Church  doctrine सिखाती  that this authority , called the Priesthood , corresponds to that given to Saint Peter in .
sealings हैं typically performed  as marriages or as sealing of children to parents .
They were performed prior to the  मौत of जोसेफ स्मिथ , jr. ( the प्रमुख संस्थापक of the latter दिन  Saint movement ) , and are currently performed in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints .
हालांकि कुछ अन्य denominations , ऐसे as the जातियाँ of मसीह , दृश्य  sealing as an artifact of Smith 's practice of plural marriage , some do still perform them .
The 2000s , pronounced `` two thousands  '' , थी a दशक कि began on जनवरी  1 , 2000 , and ended on December 31 , 2009 .
Globalization , which had accelerated after the  जल्दी 1990s पतन of साम्यवादी , जारी  to be a force in the 2000s .
The growth of the Internet was one of the prime contributors to globalization during the decade , making it possible for people to interact with other people , express ideas , introduce others to different cultures and backgrounds , use goods and services  , बेचें और ख़रीदे ऑनलाइन , शोध और सीख परिचय बाते , साथ साथ experiencing the संसार बगैर having  to leave home .
The institutions , linkages and technologies that emerged or were  redefined पहले होता subsequently in इस दशक  benefit many countries , in particular China and India .
However , in other parts of the world such progress failed to address ongoing struggles with modernity ,  सबसे notably characterized by the वृद्धि of al-qaeda  and other Islamist groups .
The September 11 attacks in 2001 led to the United States ,  संयुक्त किंगडम , स्पेन , कनाडा और अन्य राष्ट्र आक्रमणकारी अफगानिस्तान , as खूब as implementing  various anti-terrorist measures at home and abroad in what was known as the War on Terror .
The European Union saw further integration and expansion  throughout much of यूरोपीय  .
The economic growth of the 2000s had considerable environmental consequences , raised  माँग लिये घटाते उर्जा संसाधन , और थी स्टिल दिखाया to be vulnerable  as demonstrated during the Global Financial Crisis of the late 2000s .
The Gunfight at the  o.k . corral थी a gunfight कि took प्लेस at परिचय 3:00 p.m. on बुधवार , अक्तूबर  26 , 1881 , in Tombstone , Arizona Territory , and is generally regarded as the most famous gunfight in the history of the American Old West .
The gunfight , believed to have lasted only about thirty seconds , was fought  between the गैरकानूनी cowboys बिली claiborne , आइक और बिली clanton , और tom और फ़्रैंक mclaury , और the opposing कस्बा मार्शल वर्जिल earp  and his brothers Assistant Town Marshal Morgan and temporary lawman Wyatt , aided by Doc Holliday designated as a temporary marshal by Virgil .
Ike Clanton and Billy  claiborne भागा इससे the लड़ो unharmed , लकिन आइक  's brother Billy Clanton was killed , along with both McLaurys .
lawmen वर्जिल और  Morgan Earp and Doc Holliday were wounded .
Only Wyatt Earp came  through the लड़ो unharmed  .
The fight has come to represent a time  in अमरीकी इतिहास जब the frontier थी खोलें दायरा लिये outlaws opposed  by law enforcement that was spread thin over vast territories , leaving some areas unprotected .
The gunfight was not well known to the American public until 1931 when author Stuart Lake published what has since been determined to be a largely fictionalized  जीवनी , व्याट earp : frontier मार्शल , दो सालो बाद earp 's मौत  .
Lake retold his story in a 1946 book that director  जॉन घाट विकसित into the फिल्म  My Darling Clementine .
After the movie Gunfight at the O.K .  corral थी released in 1957 , the गोलीबारी  came to be known by that name .
Since then , the conflict has been  portrayed साथ varying डिग्री of सटीकता  in numerous Western films and books .
Despite its name , the gunfight actually occurred in a narrow lot six doors west of the rear entrance to the O.K . Corral  on fremont गली , और भी  in the street .
The two opposing parties were  initially तभी परिचय अलावा  .
About thirty shots were fired in  तीस सेकेंड  .
Ike Clanton filed murder charges against the Earps and Doc Holliday  लकिन वे यहूद आखिरकार exonerated by a लोकल न्यायधीश बाद a 30-day प्रारंभिक सुनना  and then again by a local grand jury .
On December 28 , 1881 , Virgil Earp was maimed in an assassination attempt by the outlaw Cowboys ,  और on कूच 18 , 1882 , वे assassinated मॉर्गन  Earp .
The suspects furnished solid alibis , and newly appointed Deputy U.S . Marshal Wyatt Earp took matters into his own hands during  the earp वेंडेट्टा सवारी  , ironically pursued by county Sheriff Johnny Behan with warrants for the Earp 's arrest .
hdmi ( high-definition मल्टीमीडिया इंटरफ़ेस ) is a कॉम्पैक्ट audio/video इंटरफ़ेस लिये transferring uncompressed वीडियो  data and compressed/uncompressed digital audio data from a HDMI-compliant device ( `` the source device '' ) to a compatible computer monitor , video projector , digital television , or digital audio device .
HDMI is a digital  बदलना लिये मौजूदा एनालॉग  video standards .
There are a number of HDMI-standard cable connectors available , each of which can be used for any uncompressed TV or PC video format , including  मानक , उन्नत , ऊँची परिभाषा , और 3d वीडियो सिग्नल ; up to 8 चैनल्स of संपीडित or uncompressed डिजिटल ऑडियो ; a cec ( उपभोक्ता  Electronics Control ) connection ; and an Ethernet data connection .
hdmi implements the eia/cea-861 मानकों , जिससे  define video formats and waveforms , transport of compressed , uncompressed , and LPCM audio , auxiliary data , and implementations of the VESA EDID .
The CEC allows HDMI devices to control each  अन्य जब जरुरी और allows the उपयोक्ता to operate अनेक डिवाइस  with one remote control handset .
Because HDMI is electrically compatible with  the cea-861 सिग्नल प्रयुक्त by डिजिटल विज़ुअल इंटरफ़ेस ( dvi ) , no सिग्नल परिवर्तन is जरुरी ,  nor is there a loss of video quality when a DVI-to-HDMI adapter is used .
As an uncompressed CEA-861 connection , HDMI is independent of the various digital  टेलीविज़न मानकों प्रयुक्त by व्यक्तिगत डिवाइस , ऐसे as atsc और dvb , as ये हैं encapsulations of संपीडित एमपीईजी  video streams ( which can be decoded and output as an uncompressed video stream on HDMI ) .
Production of consumer HDMI products started  in लेट 2003 .
In Europe either DVI-HDCP or HDMI is included in the HD ready in-store labeling  specification लिये tv सेट लिये hdtv , प्रतिपादित by eicta  with SES Astra in 2005 .
HDMI  began to appear on उपभोक्ता hdtv  camcorders and digital still cameras in 2006 .
As of January 8 ,  2013 , जिससे is टेन सालो बाद the रिलीज of the पहला hdmi specification  , over 3 billion HDMI devices have shipped since the launch of the HDMI standard .
Bree Van  de kamp ( née मेसन ; भी ज्ञात in the श्रेणी  as Bree Hodge and Bree Weston ) is a fictional character and one of the four protagonists on the ABC television series Desperate Housewives .
She is played by actress Marcia Cross , who has received multiple awards and nominations for her  portrayal , सहित an एमी पुरस्कार नामांकन , तीन सुनहरी ग्लोब पुरस्कार nominations , और दो  Screen Actors Guild Awards .
Cross 's portrayal  of ब्री रै महरूम widely praised by आलोचकों  and fans .
Cross originally auditioned for the role of Mary Alice Young  , लकिन श्रेणी निर्माता मार्क चेरी विचार  she was better suited for the role of Bree .
Dana Delany , who eventually was cast as Katherine Mayfair , was originally chosen for the  भूमिका लकिन turned it bas , saying it थी too समान  to her role in Pasadena .
Bree 's main struggle throughout the series has been her attempts to maintain a  पूर्ण जीवन despite विभिन्न बाधाएं ऐसे as widowhood  , divorce , and alcoholism hindering her .
She has been married  तीन टाइम्स ; to रेक्स वैन de kamp ( स्टीवन culp ) , orson  Hodge ( Kyle MacLachlan ) and Trip Weston ( Scott Bakula ) .
See also  the कस्बा of algoma in winnebago  County , Wisconsin .
See  भी algoma ( बहुविकल्पी  ) .
Algoma is a  नगर in kewaunee काउंटी in  the U.S. state of Wisconsin .
The population was 3,167  at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी  .
Algoma is part of the Green  खाड़ी महानगर सांख्यिकीय  Area .
The Hangover Part II is a 2011 American comedy film produced by Legendary  तस्वीरें और वितरित by  Warner Bros. Pictures .
It is the sequel to 2009  's the hangover और  the second film in The Hangover franchise .
Todd Phillips directed the film in addition to co-authoring the  स्क्रिप्ट साथ क्रेग mazin , और scot  Armstrong .
the फिल्मी सितारों ब्राडली कूपर , ed helms , zach galifianakis  , Ken Jeong , Jeffrey Tambor , Justin Bartha and Paul Giamatti .
The Hangover Part II  tells the स्टोरी of फिल , stu , एलन  , and Doug as they travel to Thailand for Stu 's wedding .
बाद the स्नातक पार्टी in लास वेगास  , Stu takes no chances and opts for a safe , subdued pre-wedding brunch .
However , things do not go as planned ,  resulting in another ख़राब hangover साथ no यादें  of the previous night .
विकास of the hangover भाग ii  began in April 2009 , two months before The Hangover was released .
The principal actors were cast in March 2010 to reprise  उनके भूमिकाएँ इससे the पहला फिल्मी  .
Production began in October  2010 , in ओंटारियो , कैलिफ़ोर्निया , पहले  moving on location in Thailand .
The film was released on May 26 , 2011 and , despite receiving mostly negative reviews from critics , it became the highest-grossing R-rated comedy  दौरान इसके नाट्य चलाएं .
A third film  is नियत लिये on may  24 , 2013 .
Young Man Among Roses , portrait miniature  by निकोलस hilliard  , 1588 , V & A .
Believed to be the  अर्ल of एसेक्स
The  ditchley पोर्ट्रेट of एलिज़ाबेथ  I by the foreign Marcus Gheeraerts the Younger , c.1592
The English Renaissance  थी a सांस्कृतिक और कलाकारी गति in  England dating from the late 15th and early 16th centuries to the early 17th century .
It is associated with the pan-European Renaissance  कि is प्रायः regarded as  beginning in Italy in the late 14th century .
Like most of northern Europe , England saw little of these developments until  अधिक than a सदी बाद .
The beginning of the English Renaissance is often taken , as a convenience , to  be 1485 , जब the बैटल of bosworth फ़ील्ड ended the युद्धों of the  Roses and inaugurated the Tudor Dynasty .
Renaissance style and ideas , however , were slow in penetrating  इंग्लैण्ड , और the elizabethan era in the दूसरी हाफ of the 16th सदी is  usually regarded as the height of the English Renaissance .
Elizabeth Ann Bloomer Warren `` Betty '' Ford ( April 8 , 1918 – July 8 , 2011 ) , was First Lady of the United  राज्य इससे 1974 to 1977 दौरान the प्रेसिडेंसी of  her husband Gerald Ford .
As First Lady , she was active in social policy and created precedents  as a नीतियां क्रियाशील अध्यक्षीय  wife .
Throughout her  husband 's पद in दफ्तर , वो कायम  high approval ratings despite opposition from some conservative Republicans who objected to her more moderate and liberal positions on social issues .
Ford was noted for raising breast cancer awareness following  उसके 1974 mastectomy और थी a passionate  supporter of , and activist for , the Equal Rights Amendment ( ERA ) .
Pro-choice on abortion and a leader in the Women 's Movement , she  gained कीर्ति as एक of the सबसे निष्कपट पहला महिलाओं in इतिहास , commenting on प्रत्येक hot-button समस्या of the समय , सहित  feminism , equal pay , the ERA , sex , drugs , abortion , and gun control .
She also raised awareness of addiction when she  घोषित उसके long-running बैटल साथ alcoholism  in the 1970s .
Following her White House years , she  जारी to लॉबी लिये the era और remained  active in the feminist movement .
She was the founder , and served as the first chair of the board of directors , of the Betty Ford Center for substance abuse and addiction and is a recipient of the Congressional Gold Medal (  co-presentation साथ उसके husband , जेराल्ड R. घाट , अक्तूबर 21 , 1998 ) और the अध्यक्षीय पदक of स्वतंत्रता ( अलोन , प्रस्तुत 1991 , by जार्ज H. W. बुश )  .
Platelet endothelial cell adhesion molecule ( PECAM-1 ) also known as  क्लस्टर of differentiation 31 ( cd31 )  is a protein that in human is encoded by the PECAM1 gene found on chromosome 17 .
PECAM-1 plays a key role in removing aged  neutrophils इससे the देह  .
Jessica Rafalowski ,  मिस फ्लोरिडा यूएसए 2008
Jenna Edwards , Miss  फ्लोरिडा यूएसए  2007
Melissa Witek , Miss  फ्लोरिडा यूएसए 2005
Kristen  berset , मिस फ्लोरिडा  USA 2004
The Miss Florida USA competition is the pageant that selects the representative for the state  फ्लोरिडा in the मिस यूएसए pageant  .
While Florida has been successful in terms of  runners-up , finalists और semi-finalists , the राज्य रै never जीती the मिस यूएसए pageant  , although Cheryl Patton became Miss USA after Sylvia Hitchcock won Miss Universe .
Florida 's best  परिणाम यहूद दौरान the mid-1960s  to mid-1970s .
Their  सबसे हाल फाइनलिस्ट  was Lissette Garcia who placed in the top 16 in 2011 .
दो पूर्व मिस फ्लोरिडा टीन यूएसए titleholders  have won this competition , and three titleholders have also competed at Miss America .
The  वर्तमान titleholder is मिशेल  Aguirre of Hialeah .
Anglo-Saxon England refers to the period of the history of the part of Britain that became known as  इंग्लैण्ड , स्थायी इससे the समाप्त of रोमन occupation और स्थापना of anglo-saxon kingdoms  in the 5th century until the Norman conquest of England in 1066 by William the Conqueror .
Anglo-Saxon is a general term referring  to the germanic peoples जो आए to ब्रिटेन दौरान the 5th और 6th  centuries , including Angles , Saxons , Frisii , and Jutes .
The term also refers to the language spoken at the time in England , which is now called Old English , and to the culture of  the era , जिससे रै long आकर्षित लोकप्रिय और scholarly  attention .
Until the 9th century Anglo-Saxon England was  वर्चस्व by the heptarchy  , the kingdoms of Northumbria , Mercia , East Anglia , Essex , Kent , Sussex , and Wessex .
In terms of religion the kingdoms followed Anglo-Saxon paganism during  the जल्दी काल , लकिन परिवर्तित to christianity  during the 7th century .
Paganism had a  फाइनल stronghold in a काल of mercian आधिपत्य दौरान the 640s  , ending with the death of Penda of Mercia in 655 .
Facing the threat of Viking invasions , the House of Wessex became dominant  दौरान the 9th सदी , अंतर्गत the नियम  of Alfred the Great .
During the 10th century , the individual kingdoms unified under the rule of Wessex into  the किंगडम of इंग्लैण्ड , जिससे stood opposed to the danelaw , the viking  kingdoms established from the 9th century in the north and east of England .
The Kingdom of England fell in the Viking invasion from Denmark in  1013 और थी शासित by the हाउस of डेनमार्क जबतक 1042 , जब the  Anglo-Saxon House of Wessex was restored .
The last Anglo-Saxon king ,  हेरोल्ड godwinson ,  was killed in 1066 at the Battle of Hastings .
lighting a परंपरागत  red brick John Ross Jr kiln
Smoked salmon is a preparation of salmon , typically a  fillet कि रै महरूम  cured and hot or cold smoked .
Due to its  मध्यम ऊँची दाम , स्मोक्ड सामन  is considered a delicacy .
Although the term lox is sometimes applied to smoked salmon  , वे हैं अलग उत्पाद  .
View of defibrillator  एलेक्ट्रोड स्थिति और  placement .
Defibrillation is a common treatment for  life-threatening हृदय dysrhythmias , ventricular fibrillation , और pulseless  ventricular tachycardia .
defibrillation consists of delivering a therapeutic खुराक of विद्युत  energy to the affected heart with a device called a defibrillator .
This depolarizes a critical mass of the heart  मांसपेशी , terminates the dysrhythmia , और allows सामान्य sinus लय to be reestablished by the देह  's natural pacemaker , in the sinoatrial node of the heart .
Defibrillators can be external , transvenous , or implanted , depending on the type of  यंत्र प्रयुक्त or  needed .
Some external units , known as automated external defibrillators ( AEDs ) , automate the diagnosis of treatable rhythms ,  अर्थ कि lay responders or bystanders हैं समर्थ to  use them successfully with little , or in some cases no training at all .
Gabrielle `` Coco '' Bonheur Chanel ( August 19  , 1883 – जनवरी 10 ,  1971 ) was a French fashion designer and founder of the Chanel brand .
She was the only fashion  पंक्तियां to appear on समय पत्रिका  's list of the 100 most influential people of the 20th century .
Along with Paul  poiret , चैनल थी credited साथ liberating महिलाओं  from the constraints of the `` corseted silhouette '' and popularizing the acceptance of a sportive , casual chic as the feminine standard in the post- World War I era .
A prolific fashion creator , Chanel 's  influence विस्तारित परे  couture clothing .
Her design  aesthetic थी एहसास in आभूषण ,  handbags , and fragrance .
Her signature scent  , चैनल no . 5 , रै become  an iconic product .
Chanel was known for her  lifelong determination , महत्वाकांक्षा और उर्जा जिससे  she applied to her professional and social life .
She achieved both success as a  businesswoman और सोशल prominence धन्यवाद  to the connections she made through her work .
These included many artists  और craftspeople to जिसको वो  became a patron .
However , Chanel 's highly competitive , opportunistic personality led her  to मेक questionable जीवन  choices which have generated controversy around her reputation , particularly her behaviour during the German occupation of France in World War II .
Allied  मिलों आटा मिल on the  banks of the Manchester Ship Canal
a gristmill (  also : grist mill , corn mill or flour mill ) grinds grain into flour .
The term can refer to both the grinding mechanism and the  भवन कि holds it .
Romania ( ; dated spellings Roumania and Rumania ; ) is a country located at the intersection of  सेंट्रल और southeastern यूरोपीय , bordering on  the Black Sea .
Romania shares a border with Hungary  और सर्बिया to the वेस्ट , युक्त और moldova to the  northeast and east , and Bulgaria to the south .
At , Romania is the eighth largest country  of the यूरोपीय संघ by क्षेत्रफल , और रै the सातवाँ largest  population of the European Union with more than 19 million people .
Its capital and  biggest नगर is बुखारेस्ट , the 11th  largest city in the EU .
The  संयुक्त principalities उभरा  when the territories of Moldavia and Wallachia were united under Prince Alexander Ioan Cuza in 1859 .
In 1866 Prince Karl of Hohenzollern-Sigmaringen was called to the throne as the Ruling Prince of the Romanian  principate और in 1881 he थी आखिरकार पहनाया as किंग कैरोल i the पहला  monarch of the Kingdom of Romania .
Independence from the Ottoman Empire was declared on 9 May 1877 ,  और थी internationally  recognized the following year .
At the  समाप्त of संसार युद्ध i , transylvania , bukovina  and Bessarabia united with the Kingdom of Romania .
World War II gave cause to the rise of a military dictatorship in  रोमानिया अंतर्गत फासिस्ट सामान्य  Ion Antonescu , who chose to fight on the side of the Axis powers from 1941 to 1944 .
बाद उसके हटाना , रोमानिया  switched sides in 1944 and joined the Allies .
By the end of the war , some formerly Romanian  northeastern territories यहूद occupied by the  Soviet Union , with Red Army units stationed on Romanian soil .
In  1947 रोमानिया forcibly became a लोगों  's Republic ( 1947-1965 ) and a member of the Warsaw Pact .
In 1965 Nicolae Ceauşescu  became सामान्य सचिव of the रोमानियाई कम्युनिस्ट पार्टी , और the हर्ष austerity  measures , political repression , and cult of personality he implemented led to the Socialist Republic of Romania ( 1965-1989 ) becoming the most Stalinist police state in the Eastern bloc .
Eventually his authoritarian  सरकारी थी toppled in दिसम्बर 1989 दौरान the रोमानियाई क्रान्ति  of 1989 .
With the fall of the Iron Curtain , Romania  began इसके परिवर्तन towards लोकतंत्र और a पूंजीवादी मार्केट  economy .
After a decade of  post-revolution आर्थिक समस्याएं और living-standards  decline , extensive reforms fostered economic recovery .
As of 2010 , Romania is an  upper-middle-income देश साथ a ऊँची इंसान विकास  index .
Romania joined NATO on 29 March 2004 ,  और the यूरोपीय संघ on 1 जनवरी  2007 .
It is also a member of the : Latin Union , Francophonie ,  osce , wto , bsec , संयुक्त राष्ट्र , इत्यादि .
Today , Romania is a unitary  semi-presidential गणतंत्र , in जिससे the कार्यपालिका शाखा  consists of the President and the Government .
`` प्राचीन  '' redirects here .
For  अन्य उपयोग , देखिए प्राचीनता  ( disambiguation ) .
The times before writing belong either to  protohistory or to प्रागितिहास  .
khafre 's पिरामिड ( 4th  dynasty ) and Great Sphinx of Giza ( c. 2500 BC or perhaps earlier )
Ancient history is the study of the written  पास्ट इससे the शुरूआत of अंकित इंसान इतिहास  to the Early Middle Ages .
The span of recorded history is roughly 5,000 years , with Cuneiform script , the oldest discovered form of coherent  लिखने , इससे the protoliterate काल around the 30th सदी  BC .
This is the beginning of history , as opposed to prehistory ,  according to the परिभाषा प्रयुक्त  by most historians .
The term  शास्त्रीय प्राचीनता is प्रायः  used to refer to history in the Old World from the beginning of recorded Greek history in 776 BC ( First Olympiad ) .
This roughly coincides with the traditional date of the founding of Rome in 753 BC , the beginning of  the इतिहास of प्राचीन रोम , और the शुरूआत of the  Archaic period in Ancient Greece .
Although the ending date of ancient history is disputed , some Western  विद्वानों उपयोग the पतन of the पश्चिमी रोमन साम्राज्य in 476 ad , the closure of the platonic अकादमी in 529 ad , the मौत of the सम्राट जुस्तिनियन  I , the coming of Islam or the rise of Charlemagne as the end of ancient and Classical European history .
In India , the period  शामिल the जल्दी काल of the मध्य kingdoms ,  and , in China , the time up to the Qin Dynasty is included .
Methylcobalamin ( shown ) is a form of  विटामिन b12 .
Physically it resembles the other forms of vitamin B12 , occurring as dark red  crystals कि freely रूप cherry-colored पारदर्शी समाधान  in water .
Vitamin B12 , vitamin B12 or  विटामिन b-12 , भी पुकारा cobalamin , is a water-soluble विटामिन साथ a कुंजी  role in the normal functioning of the brain and nervous system , and for the formation of blood .
It is one of the  आठ b विटामिन  .
It is normally involved in the metabolism of every cell of the human body , especially  affecting डीएनए संश्लेषण और विनियमन , लकिन भी वसीय एसिड संश्लेषण  and energy production .
Neither fungi , plants  , nor पशु  are capable of producing vitamin B12 .
Only bacteria and archaea have the enzymes required for its synthesis , although  अनेक भोजन हैं a प्राकृतिक सोर्स of b12 क्युकी  of bacterial symbiosis .
The  विटामिन is the largest और सबसे structurally जटिल विटामिन और  can be produced industrially only through bacterial fermentation-synthesis .
Vitamin B12 consists of a class  of chemically सम्बन्धित यौगिकों ( vitamers ) , सब  of which have vitamin activity .
It  contains the biochemically विरल  element cobalt .
जैवसंश्लेषण of the मौलिक ढांचा of the विटामिन is संपन्नता तभी by जीवाणु ( जिससे प्रायः उपज  hydroxocobalamin ) , but conversion between different forms of the vitamin can be accomplished in the human body .
A common semi-synthetic form of the vitamin , cyanocobalamin , does not occur in nature , but is produced from bacterial hydroxocobalamin and  तब प्रयुक्त in अनेक दवाएँ और पूरक , और  as a food additive , because of its stability and lower production cost .
In the body it is converted to the human physiological forms methylcobalamin and adenosylcobalamin , leaving behind the cyanide ,  albeit in minimal विशेषज्ञता  .
More recently ,  hydroxocobalamin , methylcobalamin , और  adenosylcobalamin can be found in more expensive pharmacological products and food supplements .
The extra utility of these  is फिलहाल debated  .
Vitamin B12 was discovered from its relationship to the  बीमारी घातक रक्ताल्पता , जिससे is an असंक्राम्य बीमारी in  which parietal cells of the stomach responsible for secreting intrinsic factor are destroyed .
Intrinsic factor is crucial for the  सामान्य अवशोषण of b12 , so a कमी of मूलभूत फ़ैक्टर , as देखी  in pernicious anemia , causes a vitamin B12 deficiency .
Many other subtler kinds  of विटामिन b12 कमियां और उनके  biochemical effects have since been elucidated .
The Roman Empire ( ) was the post- Republican period of the ancient Roman civilization , characterised by  an निरंकुश रूप of सरकारी और विशाल territorial holdings around the  Mediterranean in Europe , Africa , and Asia .
The 500-year-old Roman Republic , which preceded it  , था महरूम destabilized through a श्रेणी  of civil wars .
Several events marked the transition from Republic to Empire , including Julius Caesar 's appointment as perpetual dictator ( 44 BC ) ; the Battle of Actium ( 31 BC  ) ; और the granting of the honorific augustus  to Octavian by the Roman Senate ( 27 BC ) .
The first two centuries of the Empire were a period of unprecedented stability and prosperity known as  the pax romana (  `` Roman Peace '' ) .
It reached its greatest  expanse दौरान the शासनकाल of  Trajan ( 98–117 AD ) .
In the 3rd century , the Empire underwent a crisis that threatened its existence  , लकिन थी reunified और stabilized अंतर्गत  the emperors Aurelian and Diocletian .
Christians rose to power in the 4th century , during which  समय a प्रणाली of डुअल नियम थी विकसित in the लैटिन वेस्ट और  Greek East .
After the collapse of central government in the West in the 5th century  , the पूर्वी हाफ जारी as कया होता बाद  be known as the Byzantine Empire .
Because of the Empire 's vast extent and long endurance , the  संस्थानों और संस्कृति of रोम था a profound और स्थायी influence on the विकास of भाषा , धर्म , वास्तुकला , दर्शनशास्त्र , विधि , और फ़ॉर्म of सरकारी  in the territory it governed , particularly Europe , and by means of European expansionism throughout the modern world .
Total body surface area ( TBSA  ) is an मूल्यांकन माप of  burns of the skin .
in वयस्कों , the `` नियम of nines '' is  used to determine the total percentage of area burned for each major section of the body .
In some cases , the burns may cover more  than एक देह भाग , or may नहीं fully कवर  such a part ; in these cases , burns are measured by using the casualty 's palm as a reference point for 1 % of the body .
For children and infants , the  lund-browder चार्ट is प्रयुक्त to assess  the burned body surface area .
Different  percentages हैं प्रयुक्त क्युकी the अनुपात of the संयुक्त सतह  area of the head and neck to the surface area of the limbs is typically larger in children than that of an adult .
Typical values for common  समूह of इंसानो follow .
(  due to rounding , मान may  not add to 100 % . )
World infant mortality  दरों by पाँच सालो averages  in 2008 .
इस is a सूची of देशों  by infant mortality rate .
Jonah Kirsten Sorrentino (  born जून 26 , 1975 ) , बेहतर  known by his stage name KJ-52 , is a Christian rapper from Tampa , Florida .
The `` KJ '' part of his name refers to his old rap alias , `` King J.  मैक , '' a नाम जिससे he बाद वर्णित in एक of उसके  podcasts as `` horribly cheesy . ''
`` 52 '' , which is pronounced `` five two '' , not `` fifty-two '' , is a reference to the Biblical story of Jesus feeding the  multitude साथ पाँच loaves और दो मछली , जिससे is भी सुंग परिचय in उसके सोंग `` धक्का up '' इससे the yearbook और in the `` kj पाँच दो '' on it 's सुनाया  'Five Two .
He was awarded the Rap/Hip Hop Recorded Song of the Year for  `` never dekh दूर '' और rap/hip हॉप एल्बम of the साल at the जीएमए  Dove Awards of 2007 .
On July 28 , 2009 , KJ-52 released `` End of My Rope '' , which is  the पहला सिंगल  for his album Five-Two Television .
His song `` Dear Slim '' is based  on एमिनेम 's सोंग `` स्टेन `` और is a sort of निजी  message from KJ-52 to Eminem .
The degree symbol ( ° ) is a typographical symbol that is used , among  अन्य बाते , to represent डिग्री of चाप ( e.g . in भौगोलिक निर्देशांक प्रणालियों  ) , hours ( in the medical field ) , or degrees of temperature .
The  प्रतीक consists of a छोटी  raised circle , historically a zero glyph .
In Unicode  it is एनकोडेड  at .
This is a list of roots , suffixes , and prefixes used in medical terminology , their  meanings  , and their etymology .
There are a few rules when  using चिकित्सा  roots .
Firstly , prefixes and suffixes ,  primarily in यूनानी  , but also in Latin , have a droppable -o- .
As a general rule , this -o- almost always acts as a  joint-stem to कनेक्ट दो consonantal जड़ें , e.g . arthr- + -o- + logy  = arthrology .
But generally , the -o- is dropped when connecting to a vowel-stem ;  e.g . arthr- + itis = गठिया , बजाय  of arthr-o-itis .
Secondly , medical  जड़ें generally go साथ according to भाषा : यूनानी  prefixes go with Greek suffixes and Latin prefixes with Latin suffixes .
Although  अंतरराष्ट्रीय वैज्ञानिक शब्दावली is नहीं कठोर परिचय segregating  combining forms of different languages , it is advisable when coining new words not to mix different lingual roots .
Stomach cancer , or gastric cancer  , refers to कर्कट  arising from any part of the stomach .
पेट कर्कट कल्याणकारी  about 800,000 deaths worldwide per year .
prognosis is ग़रीब ( 5-year अस्तित्व < 5 to 15  % ) because most patients present with advanced disease .
Sara Lynn Evans ( born February 5 , 1971 ) is  an अमरीकी देश  singer and songwriter .
For her entire  करियर , वो रै महरूम हस्ताक्षरित  to RCA Records Nashville .
Evans ' debut , Three Chords and the  सच्चाई , किया नहीं उपज a शीर्ष 40 hit  on the Hot Country Songs charts .
She followed this up with No Place That Far ( 1998  ) , born to मक्खी ( 2000 ) ,  Restless ( 2003 ) and Real Fine Place ( 2005 ) .
No Place That Far received a gold certification from the Recording Industry Association of America ( RIAA  ) , जबकि the अन्य तीन एल्बम सब यहूद  certified platinum .
These discs include the number 1 singles `` No  प्लेस कि दूर `` , `` born to मक्खी `` , `` suds in the बाल्टी `` और `` a रियल ठीक प्लेस to प्रारंभ  `` , plus the top 10 hits `` I Could Not Ask for More `` ( a cover of the Edwin McCain song ) , `` I Keep Looking `` , `` Perfect `` and `` Cheatin ' `` .
Her 2007 Greatest Hits included the top 15 hits  `` तुम 'll सदा be my baby  `` and `` As If `` .
Stronger ( 2011 ) included her fifth number 1 hit , `` A Little Bit Stronger `` , which  थी co-written by हिलेरी स्कॉट of महिला  Antebellum .
Evans has also won one award each  इससे बिलबोर्ड , the अकादमी of देश  Music , Country Music Association , Broadcast Music Incorporated ( BMI ) and a Dove Award .
The world 's  प्रिंसिपल धर्मों और आध्यात्मिक परंपराओं may be वर्गीकृत  into a small number of major groups , although this is by no means a uniform practice .
This  सिद्धान्त began in the 18th सदी  with the goal of recognizing the relative levels of civility in societies .
berliners watching a c-54 जमीन at  Tempelhof Airport ( 1948 )
The Berlin blockade ( 24 June  1948 – 12 may 1949 ) थी एक of the पहला  major international crises of the Cold War .
During the multinational occupation of post–World War II Germany , the Soviet Union blocked the Western Allies ' railway , road ,  और कनाल अभिगम to the सेक्टर of बर्लिन  under Allied control .
Their aim was to force the western powers to allow the Soviet zone to start supplying Berlin with food and fuel , thereby giving the  soviets व्यावहारिक कंट्रोल over the  entire city .
In response ,  the पश्चिमी allies व्यवस्थित the बर्लिन  airlift to carry supplies to the people in West Berlin .
Aircrews from the United States Air Force , the British Royal Air  फ़ोर्स , the royal ऑस्ट्रेलियाई एयर फ़ोर्स , the royal कनाडाई एयर फ़ोर्स , the royal नई जीलैंड एयर फ़ोर्स , और the दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी एयर फ़ोर्स  flew over 200,000 flights in one year , providing up to 4700 tons of daily necessities such as fuel and food to the Berliners .
By the  वसन्त of 1949 , the प्रयत्न थी clearly succeeding और , by अप्रैल ,  the airlift was delivering more cargo than had previously been transported into the city by rail .
The success of the Berlin Airlift brought embarrassment to the  soviets जो था refused to मानना it could  make a difference .
The  नाकेबंदी थी lifted in may 1949  and resulted in the creation of two separate German states .
The Federal Republic of Germany ( West Germany ) and the German  लोकतांत्रिक गणतंत्र ( ईस्ट जर्मनी ) विभाजित  up Berlin .
In  स्मरण of the एयरलिफ्ट , तीन एयरपोर्ट  in the former western zones of the city served as the primary gateways to Germany for another fifty years .
The euro sign ; logotype  और हस्तलिखित  .
The euro sign is the  करेंसी चिह्न प्रयुक्त लिये the यूरोपियन , the आधिकारिक  currency of the Eurozone in the European Union ( EU ) .
The design was presented to the  पब्लिक by the यूरोपीय  Commission on 12 December 1996 .
The international three-letter code ( according to ISO  मानक आईएसओ 4217 ) लिये the यूरोपियन is  EUR .
in युनिकोड  it is encoded at .
In English , the  चिह्न precedes  the value .
In some styleguides , but  नहीं अन्य , the यूरोपियन चिह्न  is unspaced .
Mate ( , ; sometimes also spelled maté ) , also known as chimarrão ( ) or cimarrón ( ) , is a traditional South American infused drink , particularly in Argentina  , उरुग्वे , पैराग्वे और the दक्षिणी राज्य of ब्राज़ील और to a lesser उपाधि in दक्षिण of चिली , the bolivian chaco  , Syria and Lebanon .
It is prepared from steeping dried leaves of yerba mate ( llex paraguariensis ,  ज्ञात in पुर्तगाली as erva-mate  ) in hot water .
Mate is served  साथ a मेटल स्ट्रॉ इससे a  shared hollow calabash gourd .
the स्ट्रॉ is पुकारा a bombilla in कुछ लैटिन  American countries , a bomba in Portuguese , and a bombija or , more generally , a masassa ( type of straw ) in Arabic .
The  स्ट्रॉ is traditionally  made of silver .
Modern , commercially available straws are typically made of nickel silver ,  पुकारा alpaca ; बेदाग स्टील , or hollow-stemmed  cane .
The gourd is known as a mate or a guampa ; while in Brazil , it has the specific  नाम of cuia , or भी cabaça ( the नाम लिये indigenous-influenced  calabash gourds in other regions of Brazil , still used for general food and drink in remote regions ) .
भी if the जल is supplied इससे a आधुनिक thermos  , the infusion is traditionally drunk from mates or cuias .
As with other brewed herbs , yerba mate leaves are dried , chopped , and  मैदान into a powdery मिश्रण पुकारा yerba  .
The  bombilla अधिनियमों as दोनो  a straw and a sieve .
The submerged end is flared , with small holes or slots that allow the brewed  द्रव in , लकिन ब्लाक the चंकी पदार्थ कि makes up much of the  mixture .
A modern bombilla design uses a straight tube  साथ छेद , or वसन्त स्लीव to अधिनियम  as a sieve .
`` Tea-bag '' type infusions of mate ( mate cocido ) have been on the market in Argentina , Paraguay and Uruguay for many years under such trade names as `` Taragüí Vitality '' in Argentina , ``  pajarito '' और `` kurupí '' in पैराग्वे , और in ब्राज़ील अंतर्गत the नाम  `` Mate Leão '' .
This is considered  a completely अलग  drink .
It is never drunk from cuias  or पुकारा chimarrão , nor is it संबद्ध  with the gaucho/gaúcho culture .
The  ऑटोमोटिव उद्योग is a पद कि कवर a चौड़ी दायरा of कंपनियाँ  and organisations involved in the design , development , manufacture , marketing , and selling of motor vehicles , towed vehicles , motorcycles and mopeds .
It is one of the world 's most  महत्वपूर्ण आर्थिक सेक्टर  by revenue .
The term automotive industry usually does not include industries dedicated to the maintenance of  ऑटोमोबाइल following डिलीवरी to the end-user  , such as repair shops and motor fuel filling stations .
The term automotive was created from Greek autos ( self ) , and Latin motivus ( of  गति ) to represent कोई रूप of self-powered  vehicle .
This term was  प्रस्तावित by sae सदस्य  Elmer Sperry .
David Michael `` Dave '' Bautista , Jr. ( born January 18 , 1969 ) , is an American mixed martial artist , bodybuilder , actor , and  पूर्व पेशेवर पहलवान बेहतरीन ज्ञात लिये उसके समय in संसार कुश्ती entertainment  competing under the ring name Batista .
In WWE , he became a six-time world champion , winning the World Heavyweight Championship four times ,  और the डब्ल्यूडब्ल्यूई चैंपियनशिप  two times .
He is the  longest-reigning संसार  Heavyweight Champion in WWE history .
In addition to these championships , Batista has won the  संसार टैग टोली चैंपियनशिप तीन टाइम्स ( twice साथ ric फ्लेयर और एकबार साथ जॉन सीना ) और  the WWE Tag Team Championship once ( with Rey Mysterio ) .
Batista was also the winner of the 2005 Royal Rumble match and went on to headline  रेसलमेनिया 21 , एक of the शीर्ष पाँच highest-grossing  pay-per-view events in pro wrestling history .
After trying out  at संसार चैंपियनशिप कुश्ती 's  Power Plant , Batista signed a contract with the WWF in 2000 and was sent to its developmental territory , Ohio Valley Wrestling ( OVW ) , where he won the OVW Heavyweight Championship .
In August 2012 , Bautista signed a contract  साथ क्लासिक entertainment & खेल to लड़ो  in mixed martial arts .
He won his MMA debut on  अक्तूबर 6 , 2012 , defeating विंस lucero  via TKO in the first round .
Henry T. Thomas Sampson , Jr. ( born in Jackson ,  मिसिसिपी in 1934 ) is an african-american आविष्कारक  .
He  ग्रैजुएट इससे ऊँची स्कूल  in 1951 from Lanier High School in Jackson , Mississippi .
He then attended Morehouse College for a couple of years before  transferring to purdue विश्वविद्यालयों जहाँ he became a  member of the Omega Psi Phi fraternity .
He received a Bachelor 's degree in science  इससे purdue विश्वविद्यालयों in  1956 .
He  ग्रैजुएट साथ an ms उपाधि in अभियान्त्रिकी इससे  the University of California , Los Angeles in 1961 .
Sampson also received his MS in Nuclear Engineering  इससे the विश्वविद्यालयों of इलिनोइस urbana-champaign  in 1965 , and his PhD in 1967 .
He is the  पहला अफ़्रीकी अमरीकी to earn a ph.d.in  Nuclear Engineering in the United States .
Some of his accomplishments include being a member of the United States Navy between the years 1962 and 1964 and earning an Atomic  उर्जा आयोग सम्मान between 1964  and 1967 .
Later he was awarded  the ब्लैक चित्र पुरस्कार इससे aerospace  Corporation in 1982 .
He was awarded the Blacks in Engineering , Applied Science Award ,  और पुरस्कार लिये शिक्षा , by the  Los Angeles Council of Black Professional Engineers in 1983 .
In June 2007 , Sampson was  शादीशुदा to लौरा howzell यंग in st.  Thomas , U.S. Virgin Islands .
Young-Sampson is a professor in the College of Education at California State  विश्वविद्यालयों सैन bernardino  .
Robert Lane Gibbs ( born March 29 , 1971 ) is  a वरिष्ठ अभियान adviser लिये us अध्यक्ष  Barack Obama .
Previously , he was  the 28th श्वेत  House Press Secretary .
Gibbs was the communications  निदेशक लिये then- u.s . सीनेटर ओबामा  and his 2008 presidential campaign .
Gibbs , who has worked with Obama since 2004 , was press secretary of John Kerry 's 2004 presidential campaign and has  previously specialized in सीनेट अभियान , having परोसा as संचार निदेशक लिये the लोकतांत्रिक  Senatorial Campaign Committee and for four individual Senate campaigns , including those of Obama in 2004 and Fritz Hollings in 1998 .
गिब्स थी भी the दबायें  secretary of Representative Bob Etheridge .
On  नवम्बर 22 , 2008 , गिब्स थी घोषित as the  press secretary of the Obama administration .
He assumed the role of press  सचिव on जनवरी 20 , 2009 , और  gave his first official briefing on January 22 .
On January 5 , 2011 , Gibbs announced that he would leave the White House to  become an बाहर adviser to the  administration .
He left on  फ़रवरी 11 , 2011  .
On February 12 , 2013 , it was  घोषित कि गिब्स था महरूम नियुक्त as  a contributor for cable-news channel MSNBC .
His first appearance was  on the वही रात्रि  prior to the 2013 State Of The Union Address .
अरमांडो pérez ( born जनवरी 15 ,  1981 ) , better known by his stage name Pitbull , is an American rapper , songwriter , and record producer .
His first  अंकित प्रदर्शन थी इससे the लील  Jon album Kings of Crunk in 2002 .
In  2004 , he released उसके डेब्यू एल्बम titled m.i.a.m.i  . ( short for Money Is A Major Issue ) under TVT Records .
Since then , he has released three other albums under the label  : el mariel in 2006 , the boatlift in 2007 , और  Planet Pit in 2011 .
He released  rebelution in 2009 , जिससे  included singles `` I Know You Want Me ( Calle Ocho ) `` and `` Krazy `` .
The latter peaked at No . 30 on the Hot 100 and No . 11 on the Hot Rap Tracks charts while `` I Know You Want Me '' peaked at No . 2 on the Hot 100 and peaked  भीतर the शीर्ष टेन धब्बे of चार्ट in the uk , कनाडा  , Italy , and the Netherlands .
The song reached No  . 1 in फ़्रांस और the यूरोपीय hot 100 on the सप्ताह समाप्ति  August 29 , 2009 according to Billboard magazine .
he बाद हस्ताक्षरित साथ पोलो grounds म्यूज़िक  through Sony Music and created his own label Mr. 305 Inc .
another सिंगल इससे rebelution  was `` Hotel Room Service `` , which peaked at No . 8 on the Hot 100 .
Rebelution went on to sell over  7.5 लाख विश्वव्यापी डिजिटल singles  and albums combined .
Nevertheless , he dropped a smash called `` Give Me Everything '' which reached # 1  विश्वव्यापी , और प्रदर्शित  artists Ne-yo , Nayer , and Afrojack .
He has also performed as a featured artist in the remixes of many other hit songs , like Tik Tok , Scream & Shout , Lo Hecho Esta Hecho , Bad , Papi , Diamonds ,  कैसा कम , tonight ( i 'm lovin ' तुम ) , वीडियो फोन , over to तुम अभी और bumpy सवारी  .
Pérez is also the host of  उसके अपना spanish-language कार्यक्रम on the केबल  channel Mun2 titled La Esquina ( Spanish for The Corner ) .
In 2005 Pérez and rapper Sean 'Diddy ' Combs co-founded Bad Boy Latino  , a subsidiary of combs ' ख़राब लड़के रिकॉर्ड  label .
It primarily focuses on Latin hip hop , Latin soul , Latin pop and other Tropical music ,  और रै कार्यालयों in नई यॉर्क और  Miami , Florida .
Along with co-founding it , Pérez  फिलहाल heads the a  & R division of the label .
Pérez has become a product endorser , representing alongside Drake , Rihanna , and Trey Songz the “So Kodak” campaign for the Kodak brand and embarking on a partnership with the soft drink giant Dr Pepper as  भाग of the अभियान “ विदा 23 ” लिये जिससे he अंकित the सोंग specifically प्रदर्शित on  his album Armando .
Pitbull also announced he has  become the प्रवक्ता लिये voli  Vodka , in which he holds a majority equity stake , and Budweiser has chosen Pitbull to promote its Bud Light line of beer .
The commercials  फिलहाल हाइलाइट pitbull नाचना और gyrating  on stage holding up a bottle of Bud Light .
Pitbull has also purchased an equity stake in Miami  subs पिज़्ज़ा और ग्रिल  .
Halloween or Hallowe'en ( a contraction of `` All Hallows ' Evening `` ) , also known as All  hallows ' संध्या , is a वार्षिक जश्न observed in a क्रमांक of देशों on अक्तूबर 31 , the संध्या of the पश्चिमी ईसाई  feast of All Hallows ( or All Saints ) and the day initiating the triduum of Hallowmas .
According to many  विद्वानों , सब hallows ' संध्या is a christianised feast originally बहकावे by पश्चिमी यूरोपीय  harvest festivals , and festivals of the dead with possible pagan roots , particularly the Celtic Samhain .
Other scholars maintain that it  originated independently of samhain और रै solely ईसाई  roots .
Typical festive Halloween activities include trick-or-treating ( also known as `` guising `` ) , attending costume parties , carving pumpkins into  jack-o'-lanterns , lighting bonfires , ठहराना bobbing , visiting haunted आकर्षण , playing pranks , telling डरावने कहानियां , और watching हॉरर films  .
Freedom  of वाक is the राजनैतिक सही to communicate एक 's राय  and ideas using one 's body and property to anyone who is willing to receive them .
The term freedom of expression is  sometimes प्रयुक्त synonymously , लकिन शामिल कोई अधिनियम  of seeking , receiving and imparting information or ideas , regardless of the medium used .
In practice , the right to freedom of speech is not  निरपेक्ष in कोई देश और the सही is commonly विषय to सीमाएं , as साथ  libel , slander , obscenity , sedition ( including , for example inciting ethnic hatred ) , copyright violation , revelation of information that is classified or otherwise .
The right to freedom of  अभिव्यक्ति is पहचाना as a इंसान सही अंतर्गत आलेख 19 of the सार्वभौमिक घोषणा of इंसान अधिकारों और पहचाना in अंतरराष्ट्रीय  human rights law in the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights ( ICCPR ) .
Article 19 of the ICCPR states that `` [ e ] veryone shall have the right to hold opinions without interference '' and `` everyone shall have the right to freedom of expression ; this right shall include freedom to seek , receive  और impart सूचना और विचार of सब kinds , regardless of frontiers , either orally , in लिखने  or in print , in the form of art , or through any other media of his choice '' .
Article 19 goes on to say that the exercise of these rights carries `` special duties and responsibilities `` and may `` therefore be subject to certain  प्रतिबंध '' जब जरुरी `` [ f ] or आदर of the अधिकारों or प्रतिष्ठा of अन्य '' or `` [ f ] or the सुरक्षा  of national security or of public order ( order public ) , or of public health or morals '' .
स्वतंत्रता of वाक may be legally curtailed in कुछ धार्मिक विधिक प्रणालियों और in धर्मनिरपेक्ष  jurisdictions where it is found to cause religious offense , such as the British Racial and Religious Hatred Act 2006 .
Sydney Harbour from the air , showing the Opera House , the CBD , Circular Quay , the  सेतु , the parramatta नदी ,  North Sydney and Kirribilli in the foreground
The Sydney Harbour Bridge is a steel through arch bridge across Sydney  harbour कि carries रेल , vehicular , सायकिल और पैदल  traffic between the Sydney central business district ( CBD ) and the North Shore .
The dramatic  दृश्य of the सेतु , the harbour  , and the nearby Sydney Opera House is an iconic image of Sydney , New South Wales , and Australia .
The bridge is  nicknamed `` the coathanger  '' because of its arch-based design .
Under the directions of Dr J.J.C . Bradfield of the NSW Department of Public Works , the  सेतु थी designed और निर्मित by अंग्रेजों कड़ dorman long और co ltd of middlesbrough  and opened in 1932 .
The bridge 's design was  बहकावे by the नरक फाटक सेतु in  New York .
It was  the संसार 's widest long-span सेतु , at 48.8  meters ( 160 feet ) wide , until construction of the new Port Mann Bridge in Vancouver .
It is also the fifth longest spanning-arch  सेतु in the संसार , और it is the tallest स्टील मेहराब सेतु ,  measuring from top to water level .
Until 1967  the harbour सेतु थी सिडनी  's tallest structure .
The  हवाई हॉटस्पॉट is a volcanic हॉटस्पॉट स्तिथ निकट the namesake  Hawaiian Islands , in the northern Pacific Ocean .
One of the most well-known and  heavily पढ़ाई हॉटस्पॉट in the संसार , the हवाई plume is जिम्मेदार  for the creation of the Hawaiian – Emperor seamount chain , an over 5,800 kilometres ( 3,600 mi ) long chain of volcanoes , four of which are active , two of which are dormant , and more than 123 of which are extinct , many having since been ground beneath the waves by erosion as seamounts and atolls .
The chain extends from south of the  द्वीप of हवाई to the किनारे of the aleutian  Trench , near the eastern edge of Russia .
While most volcanoes are created by geological activity at tectonic plate boundaries , the Hawaii hotspot is located far from nearby plate boundaries ; the classic hotspot  सिद्धान्त , पहला प्रस्तावित in 1963 by जॉन tuzo विल्सन , proposes कि a सिंगल , फिक्स्ड mantle plume builds ज्वालामुखी  that then , cut off from their source by the movement of the Pacific Plate , become increasingly inactive and eventually erode below sea level over millions of years .
According to this theory , the  nearly 60° बेंड separating the सम्राट और हवाई  segments of the chain was caused by a sudden shift in the movement of the Pacific Plate .
In 2003 , fresh investigations of this irregularity led to the proposal of a mobile  हॉटस्पॉट सिद्धान्त , suggesting कि हॉटस्पॉट हैं मोबाईल , नहीं  fixed , and that the 47 million year old bend was caused by a shift in the hotspot 's motion rather than the plate 's .
Ancient Hawaiians were  the पहला to recognize the increasing आयु और weathered राज्य of  the volcanoes to the north as they progressed on fishing expeditions along the islands .
The volatile state of the Hawaiian volcanoes and their constant battle with the sea was a major element  in हवाई mythology , समाविष्ट in pele , the देवता of ज्वालामुखी  .
After the  आगमन of europeans on the द्वीप , in 1880-1881 जेम्स ड्वाइट दाना निर्देशित the पहला औपचारिक geological पढ़ाई of the हॉटस्पॉट  's volcanics , confirming the relationship long observed by the natives .
1912 marked the founding of the Hawaiian Volcano  वेधशाला by volcanologist थामस jaggar , initiating  continuous scientific observation of the islands .
In the 1970s , a mapping project was initiated to gain more  सूचना परिचय the जटिल भूविज्ञान of हवाई 's seafloor  .
The hotspot has since been tomographically imaged , showing it to be wide and up to deep , and olivine and garnet -based  अध्ययन have दिखाया इसके मैग्मा कक्ष is  approximately .
In its at least 85 million years of activity the hotspot  रै उत्पादित an अनुमानित of चट्टान  .
The chain 's rate of drift has slowly increased over time , causing the amount of time each individual volcano is active to decrease , from 18 million years for the 76 million year old Detroit Seamount , to just under  900,000 लिये the एक लाख year-old kohala ; on the अन्य हाथ , eruptive आवाज़ रै increased इससे प्रति साल  to about .
Overall , this has caused a trend towards more active but quickly-silenced , closely spaced volcanoes—whereas volcanoes on the near side of the hotspot overlap each other ( forming such  superstructures as हवाई द्वीप और the प्राचीन मावी नुई ) , the oldest of the सम्राट  seamounts are spaced as far as apart .
David Palmer , director of the show , announced that the season 4  finale is the श्रेणी finale क्युकी निकलोडियन रद्द  the show .
Petitions are  होने हस्ताक्षरित to लाओ  the show for a fifth season .
The show airs on Treehouse TV  कनाडा और उपनाम jr. ( formerly  Noggin ) .
Eddie and the Cruisers is a  1983 अमरीकी फिल्मी निर्देशित by मार्टिन  Davidson with the screenplay written by the director and Arlene Davidson , based on the novel by P. F. Kluge .
It was marketed  साथ the टैगलाइन `` विद्रोही  .
रॉकर .
प्रेमी  .
आइडल  .
vanished  . ''
Osteonecrosis of the jaw (  onj ) is a कठोर अस्थि बीमारी  that affects the maxilla and the mandible .
Various forms of ONJ have been  वर्णित over the पिछला 160 सालो , और a  number of causes have been suggested in the literature .
Osteonecrosis of the jaws  संबद्ध साथ bisphosphonate चिकित्सा , जरूरी by कुछ कर्कट उपचार regimens  , has been identified and defined as a pathological entity since 2003 .
the संभावित रिस्क इससे निम्नतर मौखिक doses of bisphosphonates  , taken by patients to prevent or treat osteoporosis , remains uncertain .
Various treatment options have been explored , however  कठोर मामले of onj स्टिल आवश्यकता सर्जिकल हटाना  of the affected bone .
A  thorough इतिहास और assessement of pre-existing प्रणालीगत समस्याएं और संभावित  sites of dental infection are required to help prevent the condition , especially if bisphosphonate therapy is considered .
The Boston Red Sox are a professional baseball team based in  बोस्टन , मैसाचुसेट्स , और a सदस्य of प्रमुख लीग  Baseball 's American League Eastern Division .
Founded in as one of the American League 's eight charter franchises , the Red Sox  's घर ballpark रै महरूम fenway पार्क चूंकि .
The `` Red Sox '' name was chosen by the team owner , John I. Taylor , around , following  पिछला बोस्टन टीमों कि था महरूम ज्ञात as the `` रेड stockings  `` .
They have played in 11  संसार श्रेणी , जीतना  7 .
Boston was a dominant team in the new  लीग , defeating the पिट्सबर्ग pirates  in the first World Series in and winning four more championships by .
However , they then went into one of the longest championship droughts in baseball history , called by some the `` Curse of the Bambino `` after  इसके कथित शुरूआत साथ the रेड sox 's बिक्री of बेब रुथ to the प्रतिद्वंद्वी यांकीज़ दो सालो  after their world championship in 1918 , an 86-year wait before the team 's sixth World Championship in .
However , the team 's history during that period was hardly one of  futility , लकिन थी बल्कि punctuated साथ कुछ of the सबसे यादगार पल in संसार श्रेणी इतिहास  , including Enos Slaughter 's `` mad dash `` in , the `` Impossible Dream `` of , Carlton Fisk 's home run in , and Bill Buckner 's error in .
Red Sox history has also been marked by the team 's intense rivalry with the New York Yankees ,  arguably the fiercest और सबसे ऐतिहासिक in उत्तर  American professional sports .
The Boston Red Sox are owned by  fenway खेल समूह , जो भी अपना लिवरपूल  Football Club of the Premier League in England .
The Red Sox are consistently one  of the शीर्ष एमएलबी टीमों in औसत सड़क उपस्थिति , जबकि  the small capacity of Fenway Park prevents them from leading in overall attendance .
From May 15 , 2003 to April 10 , 2013 , the Red Sox sold out  प्रत्येक घर game-a कुल of 820 खेल ( 794 नियमित ऋतु ) लिये  a major professional sports record that lasted almost a decade .
mince पाई भर  with mincemeat
Mincemeat is a mixture  of कटा सूखी फल , आसुत  spirits and spices , and sometimes beef suet , beef , or venison .
Originally , mincemeat  सदा contained मांस  .
Many modern recipes contain beef suet ,  हालांकि सब्ज़ी shortening  is sometimes used in its place .
विसंगतियाँ of mincemeat हैं मिला in ऑस्ट्रेलिया , ब्रिटनी  , Canada , northern Europe , Ireland , South Africa , the United Kingdom and the United States .
In  कुछ देशों the पद mincemeat  refers to minced or ground meat .
Diana , Princess of Wales ( Diana Frances ; née Spencer ; 1 July 1961 – 31 August 1997 ) was the first wife of Charles ,  प्रिंस of वेल्स , the ज्येष्ठ बेटे और वारिस apparent of महारानी  Elizabeth II .
She was well known for her  fund-raising कार्य लिये अंतरराष्ट्रीय धर्मार्थ और as  an eminent celebrity of the late 20th century .
Her wedding to the Prince of Wales on 29 July 1981 was held at St Paul 's Cathedral and seen by a  वैश्विक टेलीविज़न दर्शक of over  750 million .
While married she bore the  शीर्षक राजकुमारी of वेल्स , duchess  of Cornwall , Duchess of Rothesay , Countess of Chester and Baroness of Renfrew .
The marriage produced two sons , the princes William and Harry , who became  दूसरी और तीसरा in लकीर to  the British throne .
Diana was born into an  वैभवशाली अंग्रेज़ी  family with royal ancestry .
She was the fourth child of John  स्पेंसर , 8th अर्ल स्पेंसर और उसके बीवी frances , बेटी  of Maurice Roche , 4th Baron Fermoy .
She became a public  फिगर साथ the घोषणा  of her engagement .
She also  प्राप्त मान्यता लिये उसके दान कार्य और लिये उसके support  of the International Campaign to Ban Landmines .
From 1989 , she was the president of the Great Ormond  गली हॉस्पिटल लिये children  , in addition to dozens of other charities .
डायना remained the ऑब्जेक्ट  of worldwide media scrutiny during and after her marriage , which ended in divorce on 28 August 1996 .
Media attention and public mourning were considerable following her  मौत in a car क्रैश in  Paris on 31 August 1997 .
Argentina , officially the Argentine Republic ( ) ,  is the दूसरी largest देश  in both South America and the Latin America region .
The country is a federation of 23  प्रांतों और the autonomous नगर of buenos आयर्स  , its capital and largest city .
It is the eighth  -largest देश in the संसार by जमीन क्षेत्रफल और the largest among spanish-speaking  nations by geographical area of 2,780,400 km2 and is the fourth by population , with over 41 million people .
Argentina is a founding member of the United Nations , Mercosur ,  the संघ of दक्षिण अमरीकी राष्ट्र , the संगठन of ibero-american राज्य , the संसार बैंको समूह और  the World Trade Organization , and is one of the G-15 and G-20 major economies .
Argentina is located in South America , bordered by Chile  to the वेस्ट और दक्षिण , बोलीविया  and Paraguay to the north and Brazil and Uruguay to the northeast .
Argentina claims sovereignty over part of Antarctica , the  फ़ॉकलैंड आइलैंड्स ( ) और  South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands .
Argentina  is the successor राज्य of the viceroyalty of the río  de la Plata , an overseas colony of the Spanish Empire .
Argentina declared independence during the Argentine War of Independence , which was  followed by the अर्जेंटाइन सिविल युद्धों दौरान सबसे of the  19th century .
The country faced several military coups and political instability during the 20th century , along with  आवधिक आर्थिक संकट कि continue to इस  day .
A recognized Southern Cone power , and middle power , Argentina is Latin  अमेरिका 's third-largest अर्थव्यवस्था , साथ a `` बहुत ऊँची  '' rating on the Human development index .
Within Latin America , Argentina has the fifth highest nominal GDP per capita and the  उच्चतम in खरीदना  power terms .
The Legatum Institute have argued that the country has a `` foundation for  भविष्य विकास due to इसके मार्केट आकार , स्तर  of foreign direct investment , and percentage of high-tech exports as share of total manufactured goods '' , and it is classed by investors as middle emerging economy .
Argentina is the Latin American country with  the सबसे नोबेल पुरस्कार , लिये a कुल of पाँच  , all obtained during the second half of the twentieth century .
The country has three Nobel prizes in science and  दो of सलाम  .
The most important aspects of science and technology in Argentina are concerned with medicine , nuclear  भौतिकी , जैवप्रौद्योगिकी , nanotechnology , स्पेस और प्रक्षेपास्त्र प्रौद्योगिकी  and several fields related to the country 's Main Economic Activities .
The country also has  the आचमन प्रदर्शनी बीच of विज्ञान , प्रौद्योगिकी  , industry and art that are Latin America 's largest .
Hickory is a city in Catawba County , with parts also in  बुर्के काउंटी और काल्डवेल  County .
The  नगर 's 2010 अनुमानित  population is 40,010 .
hickory is the प्रिंसिपल  city in the Hickory-Lenoir-Morganton MSA , in which the population at the 2010 Census was 365,497 .
Polyethylene terephthalate ( sometimes written poly ( ethylene terephthalate ) ) , commonly abbreviated PET , PETE , or the obsolete PETP or  pet-p , is a thermoplastic पॉलिमर राल of the पॉलिएस्टर परिवार और is प्रयुक्त in सिंथेटिक मछली ; पेय  , food and other liquid containers ; thermoforming applications ; and engineering resins often in combination with glass fiber .
The term polyethylene  terephthalate is a सोर्स of भ्रम  because this substance , PET , does not contain polyethylene .
Thus , the alternate form , poly ( ethylene terephthalate ) ,  is प्रायः प्रयुक्त in scholarly जर्नल्स लिये  the sake of accuracy and clarity .
Depending on its processing and thermal history , polyethylene terephthalate may exist both as an  amorphous ( पारदर्शी ) और as a semi-crystalline पॉलिमर  .
The semicrystalline material might appear transparent ( particle size < 500 nm ) or opaque and white ( particle size up to a few microns )  depending on इसके क्रिस्टल ढांचा और कण आकार .
Its monomer ( bis-β-hydroxyterephthalate )  can be synthesized by the esterification प्रतिक्रिया between terephthalic एसिड और  ethylene glycol with water as a byproduct , or by transesterification reaction between ethylene glycol and dimethyl terephthalate with methanol as a byproduct .
Polymerization is through a polycondensation  प्रतिक्रिया of the monomers ( किया तत्काल बाद  esterification/transesterification ) with water as the byproduct .
The majority of the world 's PET production is for synthetic fibers ( in  excess of 60 % ) , साथ बोतल उत्पादन हिसाब  for around 30 % of global demand .
In the context of textile  अनुप्रयोग , पालतु is referred to by इसके आम नाम , `` पॉलिएस्टर  , '' whereas the acronym `` PET '' is generally used in relation to packaging .
Polyester makes up about 18 % of world polymer production and is the  third-most-produced पॉलिमर ; polyethylene ( pe ) और polypropylene ( pp ) हैं  first and second , respectively .
पालतु consists of polymerized इकाई of  the monomer ethylene terephthalate , with repeating C10H8O4 units .
PET is commonly recycled , and has the  क्रमांक `` 1 '' as  its recycling symbol .
louisiana थी admitted to the संघ on अप्रैल  30 , 1812 , and elects senators to Classes 2 and Class 3 .
इसके वर्तमान सीनेटरों हैं डेमोक्रेट  Mary Landrieu and Republican David Vitter .
Black pudding , blood pudding or blood  सॉसेज is a प्रकार of सॉसेज बना by कुकिंग रक्त or सूखी  blood with a filler until it is thick enough to congeal when cooled .
The dish exists in various cultures  इससे एशिया to यूरोपीय  and the Americas .
Pig ,  चौपायों , शीप , बतख , और बकरी रक्त can be प्रयुक्त  depending on different countries .
In Europe and the Americas ,  ठेठ fillers शामिल  meat , fat , suet , bread , cornmeal , sweet potato , onion , chestnuts , barley , and oatmeal .
In Spain  , पुर्तगाल और  Asia , potato is often replaced by rice .
Stakeholder  may refer  to:
Stakeholder ( corporate ) , a person , group , organization , member or system who affects  or can be प्रभावित by an संगठन  's actions
Stakeholder ,  an एंटिटी कि can be प्रभावित by the  results of that in which they are said to be stakeholders , i.e. , that in which they have a stake .
Project stakeholder , a person , group or organization  साथ an ब्याज in a प्रोजेक्ट
Stakeholder theory , a theory that identifies and models the  समूह जिससे हैं हितधारकों  of a corporation or project
Stakeholder  विश्लेषण , the प्रक्रम of identifying  those affected by a project or event
Stakeholder ( law ) , a third party who temporarily holds money or  प्रॉपर्टी जबकि इसके मालिक is स्टिल होने  determined
Jack Smight ( March 9 , 1925 - September 1 , 2003 ) was an American  थिएटर और फिल्मी निदेशक .
Smight was born in Minneapolis ,  मिनेसोटा और गई to  school with future actor Peter Graves .
His film credits include The Traveling Executioner , Rabbit , Run , Loving Couples , Midway , Harper , Airport 1975  , फटकार alley और the एमी पुरस्कार -winning एडी , as खूब as अनेक एपीसोड of टेलीविज़न श्रेणी ऐसे as the गोधूलि  Zone and The Alfred Hitchcock Hour .
He also directed the 1960 Broadway play  the 49th cousin और रचित the म्यूज़िक लिये the फिल्मी adaption of  Roll of Thunder Hear My Cry .
smight died इससे कर्कट  in Los Angeles , California .
Dmitri Ivanovich Mendeleev ( ; 8  फ़रवरी 1834 – 2 फ़रवरी 1907 o.s .  27 January 1834 – 20 January 1907 ) was a Russian chemist and inventor .
He formulated the Periodic Law , created his own version of the  आवधिक तालिका of तत्व , और प्रयुक्त it to सही the गुण of कुछ already खोजा तत्व  and also to predict the properties of elements yet to be discovered !
Modesto ( Spanish for `` modest '' ) , officially the City of Modesto , is the county seat  और largest नगर of stanislaus काउंटी , कैलिफ़ोर्निया  , United States .
With a population of  लगभग 201,165 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी , modesto  ranks as the 18th largest city in the state of California .
the modesto जनसांख्यिकी काउंटी प्रभाग  , which includes the cities of Ceres and Riverbank , has a population of 312,842 as of 2010 .
Modesto is located in the central valley area of Northern California , 90 miles north of Fresno , 92 miles east of San Francisco ,  68 मील दक्षिण of the राज्य पूंजी of sacramento , 66 मील वेस्ट of yosemite नेशनल पार्क , और 24 मील दक्षिण of स्टॉकटन  .
Modesto , a 29-time Tree City USA honoree , is surrounded by rich farmland ,  lending to a रैंकिंग लिये the काउंटी as  6th among all California counties in farm production .
Led  by मिल्क , बादाम , मुर्गियों , अखरोट , और मकई साइलेज , the काउंटी  grossed nearly $ 3.1 billion in agricultural production in 2011 .
Modesto was  immortalized in the 1973 जार्ज लुकास फिल्मी  American Graffiti .
The award winning film captured the  स्पिरिट of `` cruising '' और दोस्ती on 10th और 11th गलियों in 1962 और led to the पुनरुद्धार of  1950 's nostalgia that included the TV show Happy Days and the other spin-offs .
Ron Howard ,  हैरिसन  Ford and Richard Dreyfuss starred in the film .
The soundtrack was a  विशाल कामयाबी  .
Director  जार्ज लुकास is a देशी of modesto  , graduating from Downey High School in 1962 .
The Gallup-Healthways Well-Being  अनुक्रमणिका लिये 2011 , जिससे साक्षात्कार 1,000 भागीदार रोज़ और asks individuals  to assess their jobs , finances , physical health , emotional state of mind and communities , ranked Modesto 126 out of the 190 cities surveyed .
In December 2009 ,  फोर्ब्स क्रमित modesto 48th आउट of 100 among  `` Best Bang-for-the-Buck Cities '' .
In this ranking , Modesto ranked 8th in housing affordability  और सफर समय लकिन भी क्रमित 86th in जॉब भविष्यवाणी  growth and 99th in foreclosures .
Independence Day , commonly known as the Fourth of July , is a federal holiday in the United States  commemorating the अपनाना of the घोषणा of स्वतंत्रता on जुलाई 4  , 1776 , declaring independence from the Kingdom of Great Britain .
Independence Day is commonly associated with fireworks , parades , barbecues , carnivals , fairs , picnics , concerts , baseball games , family reunions , and political speeches and ceremonies , in addition to various other public and private  कार्यक्रम celebrating the इतिहास , सरकारी , और परंपराओं of the संयुक्त राज्य  .
Independence Day is the national day  of the संयुक्त राज्य  .
A gender symbol  denotes the sex of an सजीव  or characterizes an agent by gender .
The two standard gender symbols denoting male ♂ and female ♀ are derived from  astrological प्रतीकों , denoting the शास्त्रीय ग्रह मंगल और शुक्र  , respectively .
These symbols have been in use since the  पुनर्जागरण भी denoting तत्व in alchemy , specifically the धातुओं  iron and copper .
They were first used to denote the effective  लिंग of पौधे ( i.e . sex of व्यक्तिगत in a दिए crossbreed , चूंकि सबसे पौधे  are hermaphroditic ) by Carolus Linnaeus in 1751 .
A leasehold estate is an ownership of a temporary  सही to थाम जमीन or प्रॉपर्टी in जिससे  a lessee or a tenant holds rights of real property by some form of title from a lessor or landlord .
Although a tenant does hold rights to  रियल प्रॉपर्टी , a leasehold एस्टेट is typically माना  personal property .
Leasehold is a form of land tenure or property tenure where one party buys the right to  occupy जमीन or a भवन लिये a दिए लंबाई  of time .
As lease is a legal estate , leasehold  एस्टेट can be खरीदा और  sold on the open market .
A leasehold thus differs from a freehold or fee simple where the ownership of a property is purchased outright and thereafter held for an indeterminate length of time , and  भी differs इससे a tenancy जहाँ a प्रॉपर्टी is let ( rented ) on a आवधिक आधार ऐसे  as weekly or monthly .
Until the end of the lease period ( often measured in decades or centuries ; a 99 year lease  is काफी आम ) the leaseholder रै the सही to remain in occupation as an assured  tenant paying an agreed rent to the owner .
Terms of the  अनुबंध हैं contained in a पट्टे , जिससे  has elements of contract and property law intertwined .
The term estate for  सालो may occasionally be प्रयुक्त  .
This refers to a leasehold estate  लिये कोई विशिष्ट काल of समय  ( the word `` years '' is misleading ) .
An estate for years is not  automatically  renewed .
colloquially , `` पट्टे '' और `` पट्टे `` हैं प्रायः a formalization of a longer  , specific period as compared with a `` rental '' that created a tenancy at will , terminable or renewable at the end of a short period .
Olivia ( also known as  स्वागत to the संसार of the सुअर ओलिविया ) is a british-american children 's एनिमेटेड  television series produced by media company Chorion and based on Ian Falconer 's books .
it is देखी on उपनाम  Jr. in the US , Milkshake !
, Nick Jr. in the UK and Ireland , and Disney Junior in Latin America  और ब्राज़ील , treehouse  TV in Canada .
The show has won  a चांदी अभिभावक ' चुनाव  Award for its positive story lines and characters .
Location of Panama  between प्रशांत ( नीचे ) और caribbean  ( top ) , with canal at top center
The Panama Canal ( ) is a ship canal in Panama that connects the Atlantic Ocean ( via the  caribbean समुद्र ) to the प्रशांत समंदर  .
The canal  कटौती आरपार the isthmus of पनामा  and is a key conduit for international maritime trade .
There are locks at each end to lift ships up to  gatun झील ( ऊपर sea-level  ) .
Gatun Lake was created to  reduce the राशि of कार्य  required for the canal .
The  वर्तमान ताले  are wide .
A third ,  wider लेन  of locks is being built .
France began work on the  कनाल in 1881 , लकिन था to रोकें  because of engineering problems and high mortality due to disease .
The United States ( US ) later took  over  the project and took a decade to complete the canal in 1914 , enabling ships to avoid the lengthy Cape Horn route around the southernmost tip of South America ( via the Drake Passage ) or to navigate the Strait of Magellan .
One of the largest and most difficult engineering projects ever undertaken , the Panama Canal shortcut made it possible for  जहाजों to सफर between the अटलांटिक और  Pacific Oceans in half the time previously required .
The shorter , faster , safer route  to the us वेस्ट coast और to राष्ट्र in और साथ the प्रशांत समंदर  allowed those places to become more integrated with the world economy .
दौरान इस समय , स्वामित्व of the territory  that is now the Panama Canal was first Colombian , then French , and then American ; the United States completed the construction .
The canal was taken over in 1999 by  the panamanian सरकारी  , as long planned .
Annual traffic has risen from about 1,000 ships when the canal opened in 1914 , to 14,702 vessels in 2008 , the latter  measuring a कुल of 309.6 लाख पनामा canal/universal मापन  System ( PC/UMS ) tons .
By 2008 , more than 815,000 vessels had passed  through the कनाल , अनेक of उन्हें much larger than the असली planners could have envisioned ; the largest जहाजों  that can transit the canal today are called Panamax .
The American Society of Civil Engineers has named the  पनामा कनाल एक of the सात चमत्कार of  the modern world .
Benjamin Franklin ( April 17 , 1790 ) was one of the Founding  fathers of the संयुक्त राज्य  .
A noted polymath , Franklin was  a अग्रणी लेखक , मुद्रक , राजनैतिक theorist , राजनेता  , postmaster , scientist , musician , inventor , satirist , civic activist , statesman , and diplomat .
As a scientist , he was a major figure in the American Enlightenment and  the इतिहास of भौतिकी लिये उसके discoveries और theories regarding  electricity .
He  invented the बिजली  rod , bifocals , the Franklin stove , a carriage odometer , and the glass 'armonica ' .
He facilitated many civic  संगठन , सहित a  fire department and a university .
Franklin  अर्जित the शीर्षक of `` the पहला अमरीकी '' लिये उसके जल्दी और indefatigable campaigning लिये औपनिवेशिक एकता ; as an लेखक और प्रवक्ता  in London for several colonies , then as the first United States Ambassador to France , he exemplified the emerging American nation .
Franklin was foundational in defining the American ethos as a marriage of the practical values of thrift , hard work , education , community spirit , self-governing institutions , and opposition to authoritarianism both political  और धार्मिक , साथ the वैज्ञानिक और सहिष्णु मान of the आत्मज्ञान .
In the words of historian Henry Steele Commager , `` In a Franklin could be merged the virtues of Puritanism without its defects ,  the illumination of the आत्मज्ञान  without its heat . ''
To Walter Isaacson , this makes Franklin `` the most accomplished American of his age and the most  influential in inventing the प्रकार of समाज  America would become . ''
Franklin , always proud of his working class roots , became a successful newspaper editor  और मुद्रक in फिलाडेल्फिया , the अग्रणी  city in the colonies .
He was also partners with William Goddard and  जोसेफ गैलोवे the तीन of जिसको प्रकाशित the पेन्सिलवेनिया वृत्तान्त  , a newspaper that was known for its revolutionary sentiments and criticisms of the British monarchy in the American colonies .
He became wealthy publishing Poor Richard  's almanack और the पेन्सिलवेनिया  Gazette .
Franklin gained international renown as a scientist for his  प्रसिद्ध प्रयोग in विद्युत और लिये उसके  many inventions , especially the lightning rod .
He played a major role in establishing the University of  पेन्सिलवेनिया और थी निर्वाचित the पहला अध्यक्ष of the अमरीकी  Philosophical Society .
Franklin became a national hero in America when  he पथप्रदर्शन the  effort to have Parliament repeal the unpopular Stamp Act .
An  संपन्नता राजनयिक , he थी widely admired among the फ्रेंच  as American minister to Paris and was a major figure in the development of positive Franco-American relations .
For many years he was  the अंग्रेजों postmaster लिये the  colonies , which enabled him to set up the first national communications network .
He was active in community  अफेयर्स , औपनिवेशिक और राज्य राजनीती , as खूब  as national and international affairs .
From 1785 to 1788  , he परोसा as राज्यपाल  of Pennsylvania .
Toward the end of his  जीवन , he freed उसके स्लेव और became एक  of the most prominent abolitionists .
His colorful life and legacy of scientific and political achievement , and  औकात as एक of अमेरिका 's सबसे influential founding fathers , have देखी फ्रैंकलिन सम्मानित on coinage और धन  ; warships ; the names of many towns , counties , educational institutions , namesakes , and companies ; and more than two centuries after his death , countless cultural references .
Criminal Minds is an American police  प्रक्रियात्मक टेलीविज़न कार्यक्रम कि premiered  September 22 , 2005 , on CBS .
The series follows a team of profilers from the FBI 's Behavioral  विश्लेषण ईकाई ( bau ) आधारित in क्वांटिको , वर्जिनिया  .
The BAU is part of the FBI National Center for the  विश्लेषण of हिंसक अपराधों  .
The show differs from many procedural  dramas by focusing on प्रोफाइलिंग the दण्ड , बल्कि  than the crime itself .
The show is produced by The Mark Gordon  कम्पनी in संघ साथ सीबीएस टेलीविज़न studios ( originally सर्वोपरि संजाल टेलीविज़न  then CBS Paramount Network Television ) and ABC Studios ( originally Touchstone Television ) .
CBS  घोषित in अक्तूबर 2009  that Legacy Interactive would develop a video game based on the show .
the खेल होता आवश्यकता खिलाड़ी to जाँचें  crime scenes for clues to help solve murder mysteries .
The interactive puzzle game was released in  2012 , लकिन किया नहीं विशेषता कोई of the आवाज़ें of the दिखाएँ 's डाल , nor थी the डाल शामिल  with the project .
On March 14 , 2012 , CBS renewed Criminal Minds for an  आठवीं ऋतु , जिससे premiered on सितंबर  26 , 2012 .
``  heart-shaped बक्सा '' is a सोंग by the अमरीकी  grunge band Nirvana , written by vocalist and guitarist Kurt Cobain .
The song was  released as the पहला सिंगल इससे the  group 's third and final studio album , In Utero , in 1993 .
It was one of two songs from  the एल्बम मिश्रित by स्कॉट litt  in order to augment the original production by producer Steve Albini .
While Nirvana 's label DGC Records did not release a physical single  लिये बिक्री in the संयुक्त राज्य , `` heart-shaped बक्सा  '' received much American radio airplay , reaching number one on the Billboard Modern Rock Tracks chart .
The international release of the  सिंगल पहुँचे क्रमांक पाँच on the uk singles  Chart .
The  सोंग 's म्यूज़िक वीडियो ,  directed by Anton Corbijn , garnered critical plaudits .
The orbital speed of a body , generally a planet , a natural satellite , an artificial satellite , or a multiple star , is the speed at which it  orbits around the barycenter of a प्रणाली , प्रायः around a अधिक विशाल देह  .
It can be used to refer to either the mean orbital speed , the average speed as it  completes an कक्षा , or instantaneous कक्षीय गति ,  the speed at a particular point in its orbit .
The orbital speed at any position in the orbit can be computed from the distance to the central body at that position , and the specific  कक्षीय उर्जा , जिससे is स्वतंत्र of स्थिति : the गतिज उर्जा  is the total energy minus the potential energy .
भूरा राजमहल आंतरिक  and Atrium
Brown  राजमहल होटल is the second-oldest ऑपरेटिंग होटल  in Denver , Colorado and is one of the first atrium-style hotel ever built .
It is now  संचालित by कोरम  Hotels and Resorts .
It was built in 1892 , one year later than  the ऑक्सफोर्ड होटल  .
It was named for its original owner , Henry C. Brown , and was  designed साथ इसके विषम triangular आकार by  architect Frank Edbrooke .
The hotel is located at 321 17th St , Denver , CO between  17th गली , ब्रॉडवे और tremont street/pl in शहर डेनवर पीछे the गणतंत्र  Plaza .
The main entrance  द्वार is on tremont गली  .
DVD-Video is a consumer video format used to store digital video on DVD discs , and is  फिलहाल the प्रबल उपभोक्ता वीडियो स्वरूप in एशिया , उत्तर  America , Europe , and Australia .
Discs using the DVD-Video  specification आवश्यकता a dvd ड्राइव और an h.262/mpeg-2 भाग  2 decoder ( e.g. , a DVD player , or a computer DVD drive with a software DVD player ) .
Commercial DVD movies are encoded using a combination  of h.262/mpeg-2 भाग 2 संपीडित वीडियो और ऑडियो of varying स्वरुप ( प्रायः  multi-channel formats as described below ) .
typically , the आंकड़ा रेट लिये dvd फिल्मों सीमाएँ इससे  3 Mbit/s to 9.5 Mbit/s , and the bit rate is usually adaptive .
It was first  उपलब्धियाँ लिये  retail around 1997 .
The DVD-Video specification was created by DVD Forum and can be obtained from DVD  format/logo लाइसेंसिंग निगम लिये a शुल्क of $ 5,000  .
The specification is not  सरेआम उपलब्धियाँ , क्युकी प्रत्येक सदस्य जरूर चिह्न a non-disclosure  agreement .
Certain information in the DVD  किताब is मालिकाना और गोपनीय  .
The nautical  मील ( प्रतीक m , nm or nmi ) is a ईकाई of लंबाई  that is about one minute of arc of latitude measured along any meridian , or about one minute of arc of longitude at the equator .
By  अंतरराष्ट्रीय अनुबंध it रै महरूम नियत at  1,852 metres exactly ( about 6,076 feet ) .
It is a non- SI unit ( although accepted for use in the International System of Units by the BIPM ) used especially by navigators  in the शिपिंग और विमानन उद्योग , और  also in polar exploration .
It is commonly  प्रयुक्त in अंतरराष्ट्रीय विधि और  treaties , especially regarding the limits of territorial waters .
It developed from the sea mile and the related  भौगोलिक मील .
The nautical mile remains in use by sea  और एयर navigators विश्वव्यापी क्युकी of  its convenience when working with charts .
Most nautical charts use the Mercator projection whose scale varies by about a  फ़ैक्टर of छह इससे the equator to 80° अक्षांश  , so charts covering large areas can not use a single linear scale .
The nautical mile is nearly equal to a minute of latitude on a chart , so a distance measured with a chart divider can be  roughly परिवर्तित to nautical मील using  the chart 's latitude scale .
shippensburg is a बरो in कम्बरलैंड  and Franklin counties in the U.S. state of Pennsylvania .
Settled in  1730 , shippensburg झूठ in the कम्बरलैंड घाटी , 41 मील ( 66 km ) west-southwest  of Harrisburg , and is part of the Harrisburg– Carlisle Metropolitan Statistical Area .
In 1900 , 3,228 people lived there ;  in 1910 , 3,457 ; और in 1940 , 5,244  people lived there .
The  जनसांख्यिकी थी 5,492  at the 2010 census .
shippensburg थी incorporated as a  borough on January 21 , 1819 .
In the past , there were furniture factories , engine and pump works , and other  औद्योगिक works स्तिथ भीतर  the town .
Shippensburg is also the home of The Beistle Company , the oldest and largest manufacturer of  सजावट और पार्टी goods , जिससे बिकता इसके distinctive मधुकोश पेपर सजावट  worldwide .
It is also the location of  pague और fegan , the oldest लगातार  operated hardware store in Pennsylvania .
In May 2012 ,  वोल्वो निर्माण उपकरण began  a $ 100 million expansion project to bring its American headquarters to Shippensburg .
Shippensburg is also home to Shippensburg University of Pennsylvania ,  एक of 14 विश्वविद्यालयों of the पेन्सिलवेनिया राज्य प्रणाली of उच्चतर  Education .
Yearly the last full  सप्ताह of जुलाई , the shippensburg जातियाँ  Fair is held .
Begun in 1958 , the fair  बिल्स itself as पेन्सिलवेनिया 's largest bi-county  fair .
The fair includes agricultural exhibits , a craft show ,  खाना विक्रेता , और कार्निवल  rides amongst other things .
Every summer on the last Saturday of August , Shippensburg holds the Corn  पर्व , an इवेंट कि brings क्षेत्रीय शिल्पकार और विक्रेता  to operate stands downtown .
The downtown is closed to traffic  लिये at तनिक 5 ब्लॉक  for most of the day .
Average attendance at the festival  is अनुमानित at 60,000  - 70,000 each year .
Black hairy tongue ( BHT , also termed lingua villosa  nigra ) refers to a कंडीशन of the जीभ जहाँ  the filiform papillae elongate with black or brown discoloration , giving a black and hairy appearance .
The appearance may be alarming , but it  is a हानिरहित कंडीशन  .
Predisposing factors include smoking ,  xerostomia ( शुष्क मुँह ) , नरम आहार , ग़रीब मौखिक hygiene और  certain medications .
Management is by improving  मौखिक hygiene , विशेषकर  scraping or brushing the tongue .
The  आईईईई 1394 इंटरफ़ेस is a सीरियल बस इंटरफ़ेस  standard for high-speed communications and isochronous real-time data transfer .
It was developed  in the लेट 1980s और जल्दी 1990s  by Apple , who called it FireWire .
The 1394  इंटरफ़ेस is comparable to usb , और  often those two technologies are considered together , though USB has more market share .
Apple first included FireWire in some of its  1999 मॉडल , और सबसे ठहराना कंप्यूटर चूंकि the साल 2000 have शामिल firewire पोर्ट  , though , as of 2013 , nothing beyond the 800 version ( IEEE-1394b ) .
The interface is also known by the brand  i.link ( सोनी ) , और लिंक्स ( टेक्सास  Instruments ) .
IEEE 1394 replaced parallel SCSI in many  अनुप्रयोग , क्युकी of निम्नतर  implementation costs and a simplified , more adaptable cabling system .
The 1394 standard  भी defines a backplane इंटरफ़ेस  , though this is not as widely used .
IEEE 1394 is the High-Definition Audio-Video Network  गठबंधन ( हाना ) मानक कनेक्शन इंटरफ़ेस लिये a/v ( audio/visual  ) component communication and control .
FireWire is also available in wireless , fiber  ऑप्टिक , और समाक्षीय संस्करण using  the isochronous protocols .
स्टीफन `` स्टीवी '' रे vaughan ( अक्तूबर 3 , 1954 – अगस्त  27 , 1990 ) was an American guitarist , singer-songwriter , and record producer .
Often  referred to by उसके आद्याक्षर srv  , Vaughan is best known as a founding member and leader of Double Trouble .
Together with drummer Chris  layton और bassist टॉमी शैनन , वे ignited  the blues revival of the 1980s .
With a career spanning seven years , Vaughan and  दोगुना ट्रबल consistently बेची आउट कॉन्सर्ट जबकि उनके  albums frequently went gold .
He was born and  उठाया in डलास , टेक्सास , और लिये a  short period of time lived in Graham , Texas .
As the younger brother of Jimmie Vaughan , Vaughan started playing  the गिटार at आयु सात और formed  several bands that occasionally performed in local nightclubs .
At age 17 , he dropped out of high  स्कूल और स्थानांतरित to ऑस्टिन to further  pursue his musical career , joining groups such as Krackerjack , the Nightcrawlers , and the Cobras .
In 1977 , he formed Triple Threat Revue , a band that eventually  विकसित into दोगुना ट्रबल और regularly  performed around Austin .
In 1982 , Vaughan and Double Trouble performed at the  montreux जैज़ पर्व in स्विट्ज़रलैंड , catching  the attention of musicians David Bowie and Jackson Browne .
Bowie asked Vaughan to  खेल on उसके आगामी स्टुडियो एल्बम let 's नृत्य , जबकि browne offered the बैंड  free use of his personal studio in Los Angeles to record an album .
In March 1983 , Vaughan and Double Trouble were signed to Epic Records by veteran record producer John  हैमंड sr. और released उनके डेब्यू एल्बम , टेक्सास  Flood in June of that year .
After  कामयाब touring , the समूह released the एल्बम , could n't स्टैंड  the Weather ( 1984 ) and Soul to Soul ( 1985 ) , the latter of which featured new keyboardist Reese Wynans .
Although his career had progressed  सफलतापूर्वक , vaughan checked into a पुनर्वास हॉस्पिटल in  Atlanta , Georgia to give up a cocaine and alcohol habit and returned to touring with the band .
In June 1989 , In  कदम थी released और  earned them a Grammy Award for Best Contemporary Blues Performance .
On  अगस्त 27 , 1990 , vaughan थी मारे  in a helicopter crash following a performance in East Troy , Wisconsin .
Vaughan 's uniquely eclectic yet intense style  थी निकला इससे a किस्में of musical जाति  .
He was influenced  by ब्लूज़ संगीतकारों सहित अल्बर्ट किंग , फ्रेडी किंग , ओटिस फटाफट , और muddy waters ,  and rock guitarists such as Jimi Hendrix and Lonnie Mack .
His  गिटार playing reflected the  classic blues and pentatonic scales .
He has received wide critical  मान्यता लिये उसके गिटार playing , रैंकिंग at # 6 on रोलिंग पत्थरों सूची  of `` 100 Greatest Guitarists '' in 2011 .
He was  मरणोपरांत inducted into the ब्लूज़ हॉल of कीर्ति in 2000  and a memorial statue was erected in Austin 's Auditorium Shores park .
Stevie Ray Vaughan is widely considered to be one of the greatest  संगीतकारों to आइये इससे the राज्य  of Texas .
GigE  redirects  here .
For the camera  प्रोटोकॉल , देखिए  GigE vision .
In computer networking ,  gigabit ईथरनेट ( gbe or 1 gige ) is a पद describing विभिन्न technologies लिये transmitting  Ethernet frames at a rate of a gigabit per second ( 1,000,000,000 bits per second ) , as defined by the IEEE 802.3-2008 standard .
It came into use beginning in 1999 , gradually  supplanting तेज़ ईथरनेट in तार लोकल संजाल ,  where it performed considerably faster .
The cables and equipment are very similar  to पिछला मानकों और यहूद  very common and economical by 2010 .
Half-duplex gigabit links connected  through hubs हैं अनुमत by the specification  , but full-duplex usage with switches is much more common .
Intel  pro/1000 gt पीसीआई  network interface card
The main components of a  stamp:
1 .  चित्र
2 .  perforations
3 .  denomination
4  . देश  name
A postage stamp  is a छोटी टुकड़ा of पेपर  that is purchased and displayed on an item of mail as evidence of payment of postage .
Typically , stamps are made from special paper  , साथ a नेशनल नामांकन और denomination ( दाम )  on the face , and a gum adhesive on the reverse side .
Postage stamps are purchased from a postal administration or other authorized vendor and are  प्रयुक्त to अदा लिये the लागत शामिल in चलती मेल as खूब as अन्य कारोबार necessities ऐसे as बीमे और पंजीकरण  .
the stamp’s आकार is प्रायः कि of a छोटी आयताकार of varying  proportions , though triangles or other shapes are occasionally used .
The stamp is affixed to an  लिफाफा or अन्य डाक कवर ( i.e. , पैकेट , बक्सा , mailing  cylinder ) that the customer wishes to send .
The item is then processed by the postal system , where a  postmark , sometimes ज्ञात as a रद्दीकरण  mark , is usually applied over the stamp and cover ; this procedure marks the stamp as used , which prevents its reuse .
The postmark indicates the date and  पाइंट of उत्पत्ति of the mailing  .
The mailed item is then  वितरित to the पता  that the customer has applied to the envelope or cover .
Postage stamps  have facilitated the डिलीवरी of  mail since the 1840s .
Before this time , ink and hand-stamps ( hence the word 'stamp ' ) ,  प्रायः बना इससे लकडी or कॉर्क , यहूद प्रायः  used to frank the mail and confirm the payment of postage .
The first  चिपकने postage स्टैम्प , commonly referred to  as the Penny Black , was issued in the United Kingdom in 1840 .
The invention of the stamp was a part of the attempt to reform and improve the postal system in the United Kingdom of Great  ब्रिटेन और आयरलैंड , जिससे in the जल्दी 19th सदी  was in disarray and rife with corruption .
There are varying accounts of the  आविष्कारक or आविष्कारक of the  stamp .
Before the introduction  of postage stamps , मेल in the uk थी सशुल्क लिये by the प्राप्तकर्ता , a प्रणाली कि थी संबद्ध साथ an irresolvable प्रॉब्लम : the लागत of delivering  mail were not recoverable by the postal service when recipients were unable or unwilling to pay for delivered items , and senders had no incentive to restrict the number , size , or weight of items sent , whether or not they would ultimately be paid for .
The postage stamp resolved this issue in a simple and elegant manner , with  the अतिरिक्त लाभ of रूम लिये an तत्व of सौंदर्य to be  introduced .
Later related inventions include postal stationery such as  prepaid-postage लिफाफे  , post cards , lettercards , aerogrammes and wrappers , postage meters , and , more recently , specialty boxes and envelopes provided free to the customer by the U.S. postal service for priority or express mailing .
The postage stamp afforded  convenience लिये दोनो the मेलर और डाक officials , अधिक efficiently  recovered costs for the postal service , and ultimately resulted in a better , faster postal system .
With the  conveniences stamps  offered , their use resulted in greatly increased mailings during the 19th and 20th centuries .
Postage stamps during this era were the most popular way of paying for mail , but by the end  of the 20th सदी यहूद rapidly होने आत by the उपयोग of metered postage और बल्क mailing  by businesses . )
The same result with respect to communications by private parties occurred over the  पिछला दशक of the 20th सदी और the पहला दशक of the 21st due to घटती लागत of long  distance telephone communications and the development and explosive spread of electronic mailing ( `` e-mail '' via the Internet ) and bill paying systems had .
As postage stamps with their  engraved imagery began to appear on a फैली  basis , historians and collectors began to take notice .
The study of postage stamps and their use is referred  to as philately  .
Stamp collecting can be  दोनो a शौक और a रूप of ऐतिहासिक पढ़ाई और सन्दर्भ , as government-issued postage stamps और उनके mailing  systems have always been involved with the history of nations .
The University of Alabama at Birmingham (  uab ) is a पब्लिक विश्वविद्यालयों in बर्मिंघम in the u.S.  state of Alabama .
Developing from an extension  बीच स्थापित in 1936 , the संस्था became an autonomous संस्था  in 1969 and is today one of three institutions in the University of Alabama System .
UAB  offers over 140 कार्यक्रम of पढ़ाई in 12 अकादमिक विभाजन  leading to bachelor 's , master 's , doctoral , and professional degrees in the social and behavioral sciences , the liberal arts , business , education , engineering , and health-related fields such as medicine , dentistry , optometry , nursing , and public health .
The school is highly renowned  लिये इसके चिकित्सा शोध और प्राकृतिक sciences कार्यक्रम  .
The UAB  स्वास्थ्य प्रणाली , एक of the largest अकादमिक  medical centers in the United States , is affiliated with the university .
UAB Hospital sponsors residency programs in  विभिन्न चिकित्सा specialties , सहित आतंरिक  medicine , neurology , surgery , radiology , and anesthesiology .
UAB Hospital  is the तभी acs सत्यापित स्तर i  trauma center in Alabama , as rated by the American College of Surgeons Trauma Program .
UAB is the state 's largest employer , with  अधिक than 18,000  faculty and staff and over 53,000 jobs at the university and in the health system .
An estimated 10 percent of the jobs in the Birmingham-Hoover Metropolitan Area and 1 in  33 कार्य in the राज्य of अलबामा हैं सीधे or  indirectly related to UAB .
The  विश्वविद्यालयों 's overall सालाना आर्थिक प्रभाव  was estimated to be $ 4.6 billion in 2010 .
In  the पतन of 2012 , the विश्वविद्यालयों of अलबामा at बर्मिंघम  enrolled 17,999 students from more than 110 countries , including 1,605 freshmen .
There are plans to commence with an `` aggressive '' growth in  नामांकन at  UAB .
The current UAB President  is dr. रे L. watts  .
Tofu , also called bean curd , is a food made by coagulating soy juice and then pressing  the resulting curds  into soft white blocks .
It is a component in  अनेक ईस्ट एशियाई और southeast  Asian cuisines .
There are many different varieties of tofu ,  सहित भैस टोफू और टोफू कि रै महरूम  processed in some way .
Tofu has a subtle flavor and can be used in  savory और मीठी बर्तन  .
It is  प्रायः seasoned or  marinated to suit the dish .
Tofu originated  in प्राचीन चीन  some 2,000 years ago .
Chinese legend ascribes its  आविष्कार to प्रिंस लियू an ( चाइनीज  : 劉安 Liú Ān , 179–122 BC ) .
Tofu and  इसके उत्पादन तकनीक यहूद introduced into कोरियाई  and then Japan during the Nara period .
It spread into  अन्य भाग of ईस्ट  Asia as well .
This spread likely  coincided साथ the स्प्रेड of buddhism क्युकी  it is an important source of protein in the vegetarian diet of East Asian Buddhism .
Li Shizhen in the  मिंग राजवंश वर्णित a विधि  of making tofu in Bencao Gangmu .
Tofu has a  कम कैलोरी गिनती , अपेक्षाकृत विशाल amounts  of protein , and little fat .
It is high in iron and  depending on the coagulant  used in manufacturing , may also be high in calcium and/or magnesium .
Bubbles ( born 1983 ) is a common chimpanzee , known for being the one-time pet of  अमरीकी रिकॉर्डिंग कलाकार माइकल जैक्सन , जो खरीदा the primate इससे a टेक्सास  research facility in the early 1980s .
The animal was a frequent travel companion to the singer , whose attachment to the animal led to  मीडिया mockery और , among अन्य कारकों , to a पब्लिक बोध of जैक्सन  as an eccentric .
During the Bad World Tour , for example ,  जैक्सन brought बुलबुले  with him to Japan , where they both drank tea with the mayor of Osaka .
Bubbles was initially kept at the  जैक्सन परिवार 's घर in encino , लॉस एंजिल्स , लकिन थी  moved to Neverland Ranch in 1988 .
There , he slept in a crib in Jackson 's bedroom , used the  सिंगर 's प्रसाधन , और ate कैंडी in the neverland  movie theater .
In 2003 the public learned that , like all captive chimpanzees ,  बुलबुले था matured into a विशाल और  aggressive adult chimp unsuitable as a companion animal .
He was sent to a California animal trainer  , जहाँ he थी reported to have  attempted suicide .
When the trainer shut down his operation in 2004 , Bubbles was  स्थानांतरित to the बीच लिये ग्रेट apes , a अभयारण्य in wauchula , फ्लोरिडा  , where he has lived since 2005 .
Muse are an  अंग्रेज़ी चट्टान बैंड इससे teignmouth  , Devon , which formed in 1994 .
The band consists of school friends Matthew Bellamy ( lead vocals , lead guitar , piano , keyboards , keytar ) ,  क्रिस्टोफर wolstenholme ( बास , vocals , keyboards , लय गिटार , हार्मोनिका ) और डोमिनिक हावर्ड  ( drums , percussion , synthesisers , sampling ) .
Since the release of their 2006 album  ब्लैक छेद और खुलासे , keyboardist और percussionist  Morgan Nicholls has performed live with the band .
Muse are known for their energetic and extravagant live  प्रदर्शन और उनके संलयन of अनेक म्यूज़िक जाति , सहित स्पेस चट्टान  , progressive rock , alternative rock , heavy metal , classical music and electronica .
Muse have released six studio albums :  showbiz ( 1999 ) , उत्पत्ति of सममिति ( 2001 ) , absolution  ( 2003 ) , Black Holes and Revelations ( 2006 ) , The Resistance ( 2009 ) and The 2nd Law ( 2012 ) .
They have  भी जारी तीन सजीव एल्बम , hullabaloo साउंडट्रैक ( 2002 ) , जिससे is भी a संकलन  of B-sides , Absolution Tour ( 2005 ) , and HAARP ( 2008 ) , which documents the band 's performances at Wembley Stadium in 2007 .
Black Holes and Revelations earned the band a Mercury Prize nomination and a third place finish in the NME  एल्बम of the साल सूची लिये 2006  .
Muse have also won a collection of music awards  throughout उनके इतिहास , सहित पाँच एमटीवी यूरोपीय म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार , छह q पुरस्कार , आठ nme पुरस्कार , दो ब्रिट पुरस्कार  —winning `` Best British Live Act '' twice , an MTV Video Music Award , four Kerrang !
पुरस्कार और an  American Music Award .
They were also nominated for  पाँच ग्रैमी पुरस्कार , of जिससे वे जीती बेहतरीन  Rock Album , for their fifth studio album The Resistance ( 2009 ) .
Muse have  बेची over 15 लाख एल्बम  worldwide .
Bloemfontein ( , ; Dutch for ``  फव्वारा of पुष्प '' ) is the पूंजी नगर of the फ़्री राज्य प्रांत of दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी ; और , as  the judicial capital of the nation , one of South Africa 's three national capitals – the other two being Cape Town , the legislative capital , and Pretoria , the administrative capital .
Bloemfontein is popularly and  poetically ज्ञात as `` the नगर of गुलाब `` ,  owing to the abundance of these flowers and the annual rose festival held there .
The  नगर 's sesotho नाम is mangaung , अर्थ `` प्लेस of cheetahs  `` and it has been included in the Mangaung Local Municipality since 2000 .
bloemfontein is situated on शुष्क  grassland at , at an altitude of above sea level .
The  नगर is घर to 369,568 निवासियों , जबकि the  Mangaung Local Municipality has a population of 645,455 .
Where  do we आइये  From ?
What  हैं we  ?
Where Are We  going  ?
One of Post-Impressionist Paul  gauguin 's सबसे प्रसिद्ध paintings  .
The meaning of life is a philosophical question concerning the  significance of जीवन or अस्तित्व in सामान्य  .
It can also be expressed in different forms , such as `` Why are we here ? `` , ``  कया is जीवन सब परिचय ? `` , और `` कया is the purpose  of existence ? ''
It has been the subject of much philosophical ,  वैज्ञानिक , और theological अटकलें  throughout history .
There have been a large number of proposed answers to these  सवाल इससे अनेक अलग सांस्कृतिक और वैचारिक  backgrounds .
The meaning of life is in the  philosophical और धार्मिक conceptions of अस्तित्व , सोशल ties , चेतना , और सुख , और सीमायें  on many other issues , such as symbolic meaning , ontology , value , purpose , ethics , good and evil , free will , the existence of one or multiple Gods , conceptions of God , the soul , and the afterlife .
Scientific contributions focus primarily on describing related empirical facts about the universe ,  exploring the कॉन्टेक्स्ट और पैरामीटर्स concerning  the 'how ' of life .
Science also studies and can provide  सुझाव लिये the pursuit of well-being  and a related conception of morality .
An  वैकल्पिक , humanistic दृष्टिकोण मुद्राएँ the  question `` What is the meaning of my life ? ''
The value of  the सवाल pertaining to the purpose of जीवन may coincide साथ the उपलब्धि  of ultimate reality , or a feeling of oneness , or even a feeling of sacredness .
Family Guy creator Seth MacFarlane also provides  the आवाज़ें of पीटर griffin , stewie griffin  , Brian Griffin , and Glenn Quagmire .
Family Guy is an American animated sitcom that features five main  आवाज़ अभिनेताओं , और numerous नियमित डाल और पुनरावर्ती  guest stars .
The principal voice cast consists of show creator Seth MacFarlane , Alex Borstein , Seth Green ,  mila kunis ( जो replaced लेसी chabert बाद  the first season ) and Mike Henry and now , the new actor Beau Osborne .
Recurring voice actors include Patrick Warburton , Adam West  , जॉन G. ब्रेनन , निकोल सुलीवान और जेनिफर tilly , और repeat  guest stars include Phyllis Diller , Charles Durning , Rush Limbaugh , and Phil LaMarr .
Many cast members  provide आवाज़ें  for multiple characters .
The voice actors , in  portraying the विभिन्न अक्षर personalities  on the show , draw inspiration from celebrities and pop culture .
Family Guy characters  have महरूम निभाई by अधिक than एक कर्ता , बाद  members of the show left the series or had conflicting obligations .
Kunis was nominated  लिये an एनी पुरस्कार लिये voicing मेग griffin in the ऋतु 5 एपीसोड `` मुश्किल विधिक `` और macfarlane  has also won an Emmy Award for Outstanding Voice-Over Performance and an Annie Award for Best Voice Acting in an Animated Television Production , though no other cast member has won an award for their work on the series .
1911  उदाहरण by एडमंड  Dulac
`` The Princess and the Pea '' ( ; literal translation : `` The Princess on the Pea '' ) is a literary fairy tale by Hans Christian  andersen परिचय a यंग स्त्री जिनकी royal पहचान is स्थापित by  a test of her physical sensitivity .
the टेल थी पहला प्रकाशित साथ तीन  others by Andersen in an inexpensive booklet on 8 May 1835 in Copenhagen by C.A . Reitzel .
Andersen had heard the story as a child , and  it संभावित रै इसके सोर्स in लोक सामग्री , संभवतः originating  from Sweden as it is unknown in the Danish oral tradition .
Neither `` The Princess and the Pea '' nor  andersen 's अन्य किस्से of 1835 यहूद खूब प्राप्त by डैनिश आलोचकों ,  who disliked their casual , chatty style , and their lack of morals .
In  1959 `` the राजकुमारी और the मटर '' थी adapted to the musical  stage in a production called Once Upon a Mattress starring Carol Burnett .
जर्मनी अमेरिकी ( ) हैं नागरिकों of the संयुक्त  States who were either born in Germany or are of German ancestry .
They comprise about 50  लाख लोगों , बनाना उन्हें the largest ancestry समूह ahead  of Irish Americans , African Americans and English Americans .
They comprise  परिचय 1/3 of the जर्मनी diaspora  all over the world .
None of the German  राज्य था नई संसार colonies  .
Not until the 1670s did the first significant groups of German immigrants arrive in the British colonies ,  settling primarily in नई यॉर्क और पेन्सिलवेनिया  .
Immigration continued in very large numbers during the 19th century  , साथ कुछ आठ लाख आमद  from Germany .
वे यहूद खींचा by the आकर्षण of जमीन और  religious freedom , and pushed out of Europe by shortages of land and religious or political oppression .
Many arrived seeking religious or political freedom ,  अन्य लिये आर्थिक अवसर  greater than those in Europe , and others simply for the chance to start fresh in the New World .
The arrivals before 1850 were mostly farmers who sought out the most  उत्पादक जमीन , जहाँ उनके intensive खेती तकनीकों  would pay off .
After 1840 , many came to cities , where ``  germania '' —german-speaking districts—soon  emerged .
जर्मनी अमेरिकी स्थापित the पहला kindergartens  in the United States , introduced the Christmas tree tradition , and originated popular American foods such as hot dogs and hamburgers .
German American celebrations are held throughout the country , one of the most well-known being the  german-american steuben परेड in नई यॉर्क नगर , आयोजित प्रत्येक  third Saturday in September .
There are also major annual events in Chicago , Cincinnati , Milwaukee ,  पिट्सबर्ग , st. लुई और अन्य शहरों  .
Like many other immigrants that came to the United States , an  overwhelming क्रमांक of लोगों of जर्मनी or आंशिक जर्मनी descent have essentially  become Americanized .
The Preamble to the United States Constitution is  a ब्रैड परिचयात्मक बयान of the संविधान  's fundamental purposes and guiding principles .
It states in general terms , and courts have referred to it as  विश्वसनीय प्रमाण of , the founding fathers ' इरादों regarding the संविधान 's अर्थ और कया वे hoped the संविधान  would achieve as it pertains to all of the people of the United States .
As the phrase , ``  we the लोगों '' suggests कि the नई सरकारी originates इससे the लोगों of the संयुक्त राज्य और it सेट into  motion a question as it pertains to that vast population concerning the individual rights and equality among all people ; this can be seen most broadly in the divide between republicanism and social democracy .
The history of the Internet began with the  विकास of इलेक्ट्रॉनिक कंप्यूटर in the  1950s .
The public was first introduced to the concepts that would lead to the  अंतरजाल जब a संदेश थी भेजा over the arpanet इससे कंप्यूटर विज्ञान प्राध्यापक लियोनार्ड kleinrock 's प्रयोगशाला at विश्वविद्यालयों of कैलिफ़ोर्निया , लॉस एंजिल्स ( ucla  ) , after the second piece of network equipment was installed at Stanford Research Institute ( SRI ) .
Packet switched networks such as ARPANET , Mark I at NPL in the UK , CYCLADES , Merit  संजाल , tymnet , और telenet , यहूद विकसित in the लेट 1960s  and early 1970s using a variety of protocols .
The ARPANET in particular led to the development of protocols for  internetworking , in जिससे अनेक पृथक संजाल could be joined साथ into  a network of networks .
In 1982 , the Internet protocol suite ( TCP/IP ) was standardized , and consequently , the  अवधारणा of a world-wide संजाल  of interconnected TCP/IP networks , called the Internet , was introduced .
Access to the ARPANET was expanded in 1981 when the National Science Foundation ( NSF ) developed the Computer Science Network ( CSNET ) and again in 1986 when NSFNET provided  अभिगम to महासंगणक साइट in the संयुक्त राज्य इससे शोध और  education organizations .
Commercial Internet service providers ( ISPs ) began to emerge  in the लेट 1980s और  early 1990s .
The ARPANET was  decommissioned  in 1990 .
The Internet was commercialized in 1995  जब nsfnet थी decommissioned , निकालना  the last restrictions on the use of the Internet to carry commercial traffic .
Since the mid-1990s , the Internet has had a  क्रांतिकारी प्रभाव on संस्कृति और कॉमर्स , सहित the वृद्धि of near-instant संचार by इलेक्ट्रॉनिक  mail , instant messaging , Voice over Internet Protocol ( VoIP ) `` phone calls '' , two-way interactive video calls , and the World Wide Web with its discussion forums , blogs , social networking , and online shopping sites .
The research and education community continues to develop  और उपयोग उन्नत संजाल ऐसे as nsf 's बहुत ऊँची गति रीढ़ संजाल सेवा ( vbns  ) , Internet2 , and National LambdaRail .
Increasing amounts of data are transmitted at higher and higher  speeds over रेशा ऑप्टिक संजाल  operating at 1-Gbit/s , 10-Gbit/s , or more .
The Internet 's takeover over the global  संचार लैंडस्केप थी लगभग तत्काल in ऐतिहासिक शर्तें : it तभी communicated 1 % of the सूचना बहती  through two-way telecommunications networks in the year 1993 , already 51 % by 2000 , and more than 97 % of the telecommunicated information by 2007 .
Today the Internet continues to grow , driven by ever greater amounts of online  सूचना , कॉमर्स , entertainment , और सोशल नेटवर्किंग  .
Southwest Airlines Co. ( ) is a major U.S. airline  और the संसार 's largest low-cost वाहक , headquartered  in Dallas , Texas .
It was  स्थापित in 1967 और अपनाया  its current name in 1971 .
The airline  रै अधिक than 46,000 कर्मचारी और operates अधिक  than 3,400 flights per day .
As of June 5 ,  2011 , it carries the सबसे  domestic passengers of any U.S. airline .
As of April 2013 , Southwest Airlines has scheduled service  to 84 गंतव्यों in 41 राज्य और  Puerto Rico .
Southwest  एयरलाइंस रै solely संचालित बोइंग 737s ,  except for a few years in the 1970s and 1980s , when it operated Boeing 727s .
As of August 2012 , Southwest is the largest operator of the 737  विश्वव्यापी साथ over 550 in सेवा , प्रत्येक ऑपरेटिंग an औसत of छह फ़्लाइट  per day .
in may 2011 , the एयरलाइन acquired airtran एयरवेज़  , with integration of the carriers expected to be complete by 2014 .
On March 1 , 2012 , the company was issued a  सिंगल ऑपरेटिंग प्रमाणपत्र , technically बनने  one airline .
Rolling Rock is a 4.6 % abv pale lager launched in 1939 by  the latrobe brewing  Company .
Although founded as a local beer in Western  पेन्सिलवेनिया , it थी marketed aggressively और आखिरकार became a  national product .
The brand  थी बेची to anheuser-busch of st. लुई  , Missouri , in mid 2006 , which transferred brewing operations to New Jersey .
Benedict XVI ( , , ; born Joseph Aloisius Ratzinger on  16 अप्रैल 1927 ) is पोप emeritus  of the Catholic Church .
He  परोसा as पोप इससे 2005  to 2013 .
In that position , he was both the leader of the  कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर और sovereign  of the Vatican City State .
Benedict was elected on 19 April 2005 in a papal conclave , celebrated his Papal Inauguration Mass on  24 अप्रैल 2005 , और took कब्ज़ा of उसके गिरजाघर , the archbasilica of st. जॉन lateran  , on 7 May 2005 .
Ordained as a priest in 1951 in his native  बायर्न , ratzinger स्थापित खुद as a अत्यधिक regarded विश्वविद्यालयों theologian by the लेट 1950s  and was appointed a full professor in 1958 .
After a long career as an academic , serving as a professor of theology at several German universities—the last being the University of Regensburg , where he served as Vice President of the university in 1976  और 1977—he थी नियुक्त archbishop of म्यूनिख और freising और कार्डिनल by पोप पॉल vi in  1977 , an unusual promotion for someone with little pastoral experience .
In 1981 , he settled in  रोम जब he became prefect of the सभा लिये the doctrine  of the Faith , one of the most important dicasteries of the Roman Curia .
From  2002 जबतक उसके चुनाव as पोप , he थी  also Dean of the College of Cardinals , and as such , the primus inter pares among the cardinals .
Prior to becoming pope , he was `` a major figure on the Vatican stage for a quarter of a century '' as `` one of the most respected , influential and controversial members of the  कॉलेज of कार्डिनल्स '' ; he था an influence `` दूसरी to none जब  it came to setting church priorities and directions '' as one of Pope John Paul II 's closest confidants .
He was originally a liberal theologian , but  अपनाया रूढ़िवादी दृश्य बाद 1968  .
His prolific writings defend  परंपरागत कैथोलिक doctrine  and values .
During his papacy , Benedict XVI advocated a return to  आधारभूत ईसाई मान to काउंटर the increased  secularisation of many Western countries .
He views relativism  's denial of उद्देश्य सच्चाई , और the denial of  moral truths in particular , as the central problem of the 21st century .
He  सिखाया the महत्व of दोनो the कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर  and an understanding of God 's redemptive love .
Pope  बेनेडिक्ट भी revived a क्रमांक  of traditions including elevating the Tridentine Mass to a more prominent position .
He renewed the relationship between the Catholic Church and art , viewing the use of beauty as a path to the sacred  , प्रचारित the उपयोग of लैटिन , और reintroduced परंपरागत papal garments , लिये जिससे  reason he was called `` the pope of aesthetics '' .
He has  महरूम वर्णित as `` the प्रमुख बौद्धिक  force in the Church '' since the mid-1980s .
Several of Pope  बेनेडिक्ट 's विद्यार्थी इससे उसके अकादमिक करियर  are also prominent churchmen today and confidantes of him , notably Christoph Schönborn .
On 11 February 2013 , Pope Benedict announced his resignation in a speech in  लैटिन पहले the कार्डिनल्स , citing a `` कमी of शक्ति of दिमाग और देह '' due  to his advanced age .
His resignation  became प्रभावी  on 28 February 2013 .
He is the first pope to resign since Pope Gregory XII in 1415 , and the  पहला to do so on उसके अपना पहल  since Pope Celestine V in 1294 .
As pope  emeritus , बेनेडिक्ट retains the स्टाइल of उसके पवित्रता , और the शीर्षक of पोप  , and will continue to dress in the papal colour of white .
He  थी succeeded by पोप फ्रांसिस on 13 कूच 2013 ,  and he moved into the newly renovated Mater Ecclesiae monastery for his retirement on 2 May 2013..
Pocket stereoscope  साथ असली  test image .
Used by military to examine stereoscopic pairs of  aerial छायाचित्र  .
View of  बोस्टन , c. 1860 ; an जल्दी stereoscopic  card for viewing a scene from nature
Kaiser-Panorama consisted of a multi-station  देखने apparatus और सेट of स्टीरियो  slides .
patented by A. fuhrmann  around 1890 .
Company of  महिलाओं watching stereoscopic छायाचित्र  , painting by Jacob Spoel , before 1868 .
A very early depiction  of लोगों using  a stereoscope .
Stereoscopy ( also called stereoscopics or 3D imaging ) is a technique for creating or enhancing the illusion of depth in  an चित्र by अर्थात् of stereopsis लिये binocular  vision .
The word  stereoscopy गर्भाशयी इससे the यूनानी `` στερεός '' ( stereos ) , `` कड़ , ठोस '' + ``  σκοπέω '' ( skopeō ) , `` to look '' , `` to see '' .
Most stereoscopic  विधि उपस्थित दो ऑफसेट बिंब separately to the बाएँ और  right eye of the viewer .
These two-dimensional  बिंब हैं तब संयुक्त in  the brain to give the perception of 3D depth .
This technique is distinguished from 3D displays that display an image in three full dimensions , allowing the  निरीक्षक to बढ़ाएँ सूचना परिचय the 3-dimensional वस्तुएँ होने प्रदर्शित by  head and eye movements .
John  एडम्स ( अक्तूबर 30 , 1735 ( o.s . अक्तूबर 19 , 1735 ) – जुलाई 4 , 1826 ) थी the दूसरी अध्यक्ष of the  United States ( 1797–1801 ) , having earlier served as the first vice president of the United States .
An American Founding Father , he was a statesman , diplomat , and a  अग्रणी एडवोकेट of अमरीकी स्वतंत्रता इससे ग्रेट  Britain .
Well educated , he was an Enlightenment political theorist who promoted  republicanism और लिखा prolifically परिचय उसके प्रायः seminal विचार , दोनो in प्रकाशित works और in अक्षर  to his wife and key adviser Abigail as well as to other Founding Fathers .
Adams came to  prominence in the जल्दी चरण  of the American Revolution .
A lawyer and public figure in Boston , as a delegate from Massachusetts  to the महाद्वीपीय  Congress , he played a leading role in persuading Congress to declare independence .
He assisted Thomas  जेफरसन in drafting the घोषणा of स्वतंत्रता  in 1776 , and was its primary advocate in the Congress .
Later , as a diplomat in Europe , he helped negotiate the eventual  सलाम सन्धि साथ ग्रेट ब्रिटेन , और थी जिम्मेदार  for obtaining vital governmental loans from Amsterdam bankers .
A political theorist and historian , Adams largely wrote the  मैसाचुसेट्स संविधान in 1780 , जिससे साथ साथ उसके पहले विचार on  Government , influenced American political thought .
One of his greatest roles was as a judge of character : in 1775 ,  he मनोनीत जार्ज वॉशिंगटन to be commander-in-chief  , and 25 years later nominated John Marshall to be Chief Justice of the United States .
Adams ' revolutionary credentials secured  उसे दो शर्तें as जार्ज वॉशिंगटन 's वाइस अध्यक्ष और उसके अपना चुनाव in  1796 as the second president .
During his one term , he encountered ferocious attacks by the Jeffersonian Republicans , as  खूब as the प्रबल गुट in उसके अपना federalist पार्टी led by उसके कड़वा  enemy Alexander Hamilton .
Adams signed the controversial Alien and  राजद्रोह अधिनियमों , और निर्मित up the फौज और नेवी विशेषकर in the फेस of an undeclared  naval war ( called the `` Quasi-War `` ) with France , 1798–1800 .
The major accomplishment of his presidency was his peaceful resolution of the conflict  in the फेस of हैमिल्टन 's विपक्ष  .
In 1800  , एडम्स थी पराजित लिये re-election  by Thomas Jefferson and retired to Massachusetts .
He later  resumed उसके  friendship with Jefferson .
He and his wife , Abigail Adams ,  संस्थापित an संपन्नता परिवार लकीर of राजनेता  , diplomats , and historians now referred to as the Adams political family .
Adams was the father of John Quincy Adams , the sixth  अध्यक्ष of the  United States .
His achievements have received greater recognition in modern times ,  हालांकि उसके योगदान यहूद नहीं initially as मनाये as those  of other Founders .
Adams was the first  u.S. अध्यक्ष to reside in the भवन  that eventually became known as the White House .
The United States ten-dollar bill ( $ 10 ) is a  denomination of संयुक्त राज्य  currency .
the पहला u.S. सचिव of the राजकोष ( 1789–95 )  , Alexander Hamilton , is currently featured on the obverse of the bill , while the U.S. Treasury Building is featured on the reverse .
( Hamilton is one of two  non-presidents प्रदर्शित on फिलहाल जारी  U.S. bills .
The  अन्य is बेंजामिन फ्रैंकलिन  , on the $ 100 bill .
हैमिल्टन is एक of तभी चार लोगों प्रदर्शित on u.S. पेपर करेंसी ( 1861 to  the present ) who was not born in the continental United States , as he was from the West Indies .
The others are : Albert Gallatin , Switzerland ( $ 500 1862/63 Legal Tender ) ; George Meade , Spain ( $ 1,000 1890/91 Treasury Note ) ; and Robert Morris , England ( $  1,000 1862/63 विधिक टेंडर ;  $ 10 1878/80 Silver Certificate ) .
In  जोड , kamehameha  I , appears on the 2008 Hawaii state quarter . )
All $ 10  बिल्स जारी आज  are Federal Reserve Notes .
the ब्यूरो of नक्काशी और मुद्रण says the औसत जीवन  of a $ 10 bill in circulation is 18 months before it is replaced due to wear .
लगभग 6 % of सब  US banknotes printed in 2009 were $ 10 bills .
Ten dollar bills are  वितरित by  Federal Reserve Banks in yellow straps .
The source of the face on the $ 10 bill is John  trumbull ’s 1805 पोर्ट्रेट of हैमिल्टन कि belongs to the  portrait collection of New York City Hall .
The $ 10 bill is the only U.S. paper currency in circulation in which the portrait faces to the left ( the $ 100,000 bill  प्रदर्शित a पोर्ट्रेट of वुडरो विल्सन facing to the बाएँ , लकिन  was used only for intra-government transactions ) .
A  सवार on a यामाहा waverunner  XL performing a high-speed turn .
A  jetboat is a नाव propelled by a  jet of water ejected from the back of the craft .
Unlike a powerboat or motorboat that uses a propeller in the water below or behind  the नाव , a jetboat draws the जल इससे अंतर्गत the नाव into a पंप अंदर the नाव ,  then expels it through a nozzle at the stern .
Jetboats were  originally designed by सर विलियम हैमिल्टन ( जो विकसित a waterjet in 1954 ) लिये आपरेशन in the fast-flowing और  shallow rivers of New Zealand , specifically to overcome the problem of propellers striking rocks in such waters .
Previous attempts at waterjet propulsion had very  छोटी lifetimes , generally due to the अकुशल डिज़ाइन of the इकाई  and the fact that they offered few advantages over conventional propellers .
Unlike these previous waterjet developments , such as Campini 's and the Hanley Hydrojet , Hamilton had a specific need for a propulsion system to  operate in very-shallow जल , और the waterjet proved  to be the ideal solution .
From this , the popularity of the  जेट ईकाई और jetboat increased rapidly  .
Through further developments , it was found the waterjet offered several other advantages over  propellers लिये a चौड़ी दायरा of पोत प्रकार , और as ऐसे , waterjets हैं प्रयुक्त widely  today for many high-speed vessels , including passenger ferries , rescue craft , patrol boats and offshore supply vessels .
Jetboats are highly maneuverable  , और अनेक can , इससे पूरा गति , be reversed और brought to  a stop within little more than their own length , in a maneuver known as a `` crash stop '' .
The well known Hamilton turn or `` jet spin '' is a  high-speed maneuvre जहाँ the नाव 's इंजन throttle is काटें ,  the steering is turned sharply and the throttle opened again , causing the boat to spin quickly around with a large spray of water .
There is no engineering limit to the size of jetboats , though  the वैध of उनके उपयोग depends a लॉट on the प्रकार  of application .
Classic prop-drives are generally more efficient and economical at  कम speeds , up to परिचय , लकिन as नाव गति increases परे इस , the अतिरिक्त हल प्रतिरोध उत्पन्न by struts , rudders , shafts ( इत्यादि . ) अर्थात् waterjets  are more efficient in the 20-50 knot range ( up to ) .
Also , in situations with very large propellers turning at slow speeds ( such as tug boats ) , the  समतुल्य आकार waterjet होता be too बिग to be व्यावहारिक  .
For these reasons , the vast majority of waterjet units are installed in  high-speed बरतन और in particular परिस्थितियों जहाँ उथले draught , maneuverability  , and load flexibility are main concerns .
The biggest  jet-driven बरतन हैं मिला in सैन्य  use or the high-speed passenger/car ferry industry .
दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी 's s ( लगभग  long ) are the biggest jet-propelled vessels so far .
Even these German-built  बरतन हैं सक्षम of  performing `` crash stops '' .
uveitis is broadly पारिभाषित as सूजन  of the uvea .
The uvea  consists of the मध्य , pigmented  , vascular structures of the eye and includes the iris , ciliary body , and choroid .
Uveitis requires an urgent referral and thorough examination by an  ophthalmologist or optometrist साथ साथ तात्कालिक उपचार  to control the inflammation .
Eric  `` e . ''
Murphy is a fictional character  on the comedy-drama टेलीविज़न  series Entourage .
He is played by Kevin  connolly  .
The Shining is a 1980  मनोवैज्ञानिक हॉरर फिल्मी उत्पादित और निर्देशित by स्टेनली kubrick , co-written साथ उपन्यासकार डायने जॉनसन , और अभिनीत जोकर निकोल्सन  , Shelley Duvall , Scatman Crothers , and Danny Lloyd .
The  फिल्मी is आधारित on the स्टीफन  King novel The Shining .
A writer , Jack Torrance , takes a job as an  off-season कार्यवाहक at an पृथक होटल  .
His young son possesses psychic  abilities और is समर्थ to देखिए बाते  from the past and future , such as the ghosts who inhabit the hotel .
Soon after settling in , the family is trapped in the hotel by a snowstorm , and Jack gradually becomes influenced by a supernatural presence ; he  उतरता into दीवानगी और कोशिशें to हत्या उसके बीवी और बेटे  .
Unlike  पिछला kubrick films , जिससे विकसित an दर्शक धीरे by भवन  on word-of-mouth , The Shining was released as a mass-market film , opening at first in just two cities on Memorial Day , then nationwide a month later .
Although initial response  to the फिल्मी थी मिश्रित , बाद नाजुक मूल्यांकन थी अधिक अनुकूल  and it is now viewed as a classic of the horror genre .
Film director Martin Scorsese , writing in  the रोज़ जानवर , क्रमित it as एक of the 11 scariest हॉरर फिल्मों of सब  time .
Film  आलोचकों , फिल्मी विद्यार्थी , और kubrick 's निर्माता , जन harlan  , have remarked on the enormous influence the film has had on popular culture .
The initial European release of The Shining was 25 minutes  shorter than the अमरीकी संस्करण , हासिल by निकालना सबसे of the दृश्यों लेने प्लेस  outside the environs of the hotel .
Patio  कोला बोतल
Patio Diet Cola was a brand of diet soda  introduced by पेप्सी in 1963  .
It was created  in जवाब to आहार रीति कोला  , which was the first diet cola on the market .
Fitness promoter  डिब्बी ड्रेक थी  Patio Diet Cola 's spokesperson .
In 1964 , Patio released  नारंगी , अंगूर , और रूट बियर  flavors .
This flavor line was not meant  to compete साथ ब्रांड्स  like Orange Crush , but rather fill out the line .
आँगन sodas यहूद उपलब्धियाँ in the  cold-bottle market : grocery and mom-and-pop stores .
Advertising for Patio was comparatively scarce ; at the time , bottlers were  regionally franchised ,  and related advertising was necessarily local .
In 1964 ,  आँगन आहार  cola became Diet Pepsi .
The newly branded diet soda was advertised  alongside पेप्सी साथ the टैगलाइन `` पेप्सी either  way '' , which replaced the slogan `` Dances with flavor '' .
the छोटी  life span of Patio Diet cola makes it a great addition for bottle collectors .
Most of  the बाकी आँगन लकीर of जायका  were phased out by the early 1970s , while a few survived until the mid 70s
Infrastructure is basic physical and  organizational structures needed लिये the आपरेशन of a समाज or एंटरप्राइज़ , or the सेवाएं और  facilities necessary for an economy to function .
It can be generally defined as the set of interconnected structural  तत्व कि provide फ्रेमवर्क supporting  an entire structure of development .
It is an important  पद लिये judging a देश  or region 's development .
The term typically refers to the technical structures that support a society , such as  सड़कें , पुलों , जल सप्लाई , sewers , विद्युत ग्रिड , दूरसंचार , और so forth , और can be पारिभाषित as `` the शारीरिक components of interrelated प्रणालियों providing commodities  and services essential to enable , sustain , or enhance societal living conditions . ''
Viewed functionally , infrastructure facilitates the production of goods and services , and also the distribution of finished products to markets , as well as basic social  सेवाएं ऐसे as स्कूलों और अस्पताल ; लिये उदाहरण , सड़कें enable the  transport of raw materials to a factory .
In military  parlance , the पद refers to the इमारतें और स्थाई संस्थापना  necessary for the support , redeployment , and operation of military forces .
To make it simple , infrastructure  is anything कि is needed  everyday , an everyday item .
A  आलेखीय प्रतिनिधित्व  of the ideal human karyotype
mitochondrial  DNA .
Human genetic variation is the genetic differences  दोनो भीतर और among  populations .
There may be multiple  विसंगतियाँ of कोई दिए जीन in the  human population ( genes ) , leading to polymorphism .
Many genes are  नहीं बहुरूपी , अर्थ  that only a single allele is present in the population : the gene is then said to be fixed .
no दो इंसानो  are genetically identical .
Even monozygotic twins , who develop from one zygote , have infrequent  जेनेटिक मतभेद  due to mutations occurring during development and gene copy number variation .
मतभेद between individuals , भी  closely related individuals , are the key to techniques such as genetic fingerprinting .
Alleles occur at different frequencies in different human populations , with  populations कि हैं अधिक geographically  and ancestrally remote tending to differ more .
Causes of differences between  individuals शामिल the एक्सचेंज of जीनों  during meiosis and various mutational events .
There are  at तनिक दो कारण क्यों जेनेटिक  variation exists between populations .
Natural selection may confer an adaptive advantage to individuals in a specific environment if an allele  provides a प्रतिस्पर्धी लाभ  .
Alleles under selection are likely to occur only in those geographic  regions जहाँ वे confer an लाभ  .
The second main cause  of जेनेटिक विभिन्नता is due to the ऊँची  degree of neutrality of most mutations .
सबसे mutations do नहीं appear  to have any selective effect one way or the other on the organism .
The main cause is genetic drift , this is the  प्रभाव of यादृच्छिक परिवर्तन  in the gene pool .
In humans , founder effect and past small population size ( increasing the likelihood of  जेनेटिक बहाव ) may have था an महत्वपूर्ण influence in न्यूट्रल मतभेद between  populations .
The theory that  इंसानो recently migrated आउट of  Africa supports this .
The study of human genetic variation has both evolutionary significance and medical  अनुप्रयोग .
It can help scientists understand ancient  इंसान जनसांख्यिकी migrations  as well as how different human groups are biologically related to one another .
For medicine , study of human genetic variation may be important because some disease-causing alleles occur  अधिक प्रायः in लोगों इससे विशिष्ट भौगोलिक  regions .
New findings show that each human has on  औसत 60 नई mutations  compared to their parents .
Apart from mutations , many genes that may have aided humans in  प्राचीन टाइम्स प्लेग इंसानो  today .
For example , it is suspected that genes that allow humans to more efficiently  प्रक्रम खाना हैं those कि मेक लोगों susceptible to मोटापा और  diabetes today .
Tea Party protesters on the West Lawn of the U.S. Capitol and the  नेशनल मॉल at the करदाताओं  March on Washington on September 12 , 2009 .
The Tea Party movement is an American political movement that advocates strict adherence to  the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान , reducing u.S. सरकारी बिता और कर , और कटौती of the u.S. नेशनल  debt and federal budget deficit .
the गति रै महरूम पुकारा partly  conservative , partly libertarian , and partly populist .
The movement has sponsored protests and supported  राजनैतिक उम्मीदवार चूंकि 2009  .
The name of the movement is derived from the  बोस्टन चाय पार्टी of 1773 , an iconic इवेंट in  American history .
Anti-tax protesters in the United States have often referred to the original  बोस्टन चाय पार्टी लिये प्रेरणा  .
सन्दर्भ to the बोस्टन चाय पार्टी यहूद  part of Tax Day protests held throughout the 1990s and earlier .
By 2001 , a  कस्टम था विकसित among कुछ रूढ़िवादी कार्यकर्ताओं  of mailing tea bags to legislators and other officials as a symbolic act .
The currencies of Puerto Rico  closely follow the ऐतिहासिक विकास  of Puerto Rico .
As a colony of Spain and the  संयुक्त राज्य , प्यूर्टो रीको थी granted  the use of both foreign and provincial currencies .
Following the Spanish colonization in 1502 , Puerto  रीको became an महत्वपूर्ण बंदरगाहों , साथ  its own supply of gold .
however , as the खनिज reserves  ran empty within the century , the archipelago 's economy suffered .
The Spanish Crown issued the Situado Mexicano , which meant that a semi-regular shipment of gold from the Viceroyalty of New  स्पेन होता be भेजा to the द्वीप , as a रास्ता to provide आर्थिक support  .
Between 1636 and 1637 , Philip IV of Spain imposed  a कर जिससे था to be सशुल्क using a आय  stamp .
Inspired by this , Puerto Rico began producing banknotes in 1766 , becoming the first colony to print 8-  रियल banknotes in the स्पेनी साम्राज्य और जिससे in the स्पेनी सरकारी 's स्वीकृति of subsequent  issues .
The situado was discontinued during the 19th century , creating an economic  संकट , as a परिणाम of मैक्सिको gaining इसके स्वतंत्रता  from Spain .
साल्वाडोर meléndez bruna , the औपनिवेशिक राज्यपाल in दफ्तर  , ordered the issue of provincial banknotes , creating the Puerto Rican peso .
However , printing of these  banknotes ceased बाद 1815  .
During the following  दशकों , विदेशी सिक्के became  the widespread currency .
In the  1860s और 1870s  , banknotes reemerged .
On  फ़रवरी 1 , 1890 , the banco español  de Puerto Rico was inaugurated and began issuing banknotes .
The  बैंको designed चार श्रेणी  and placed three in circulation under Spanish rule .
In 1895 , a Royal Decree  ordered the उत्पादन of प्रांतीय  peso coins .
On August 13 , 1898 , the Spanish-American War  ended साथ स्पेन ceding प्यूर्टो  Rico to the United States .
The Banco Español de Puerto Rico was renamed Bank of Porto Rico and  जारी बिल्स समतुल्य to the संयुक्त राज्य  dollar , creating the Puerto Rican dollar .
In 1902 , the First National Bank of Porto  रीको जारी banknotes in a समानांतर  manner .
Two  अधिक श्रेणी यहूद  issued until 1913 .
After Puerto Rico 's  अर्थव्यवस्था और मौद्रिक प्रणाली  was fully integrated into the United States ' economic and monetary system , the Puerto Rican dollars were redeemed for those issued by the United States Treasury .
The peso and dollar have been followed by other contemporary issues , including commemorative  banknotes , निजी करेंसी , और a क्वार्टर सिक्का designed साथ फोर्ट सैन फेलिप डेल morro  in the face .
Pepsi ( stylized in lowercase as pepsi , formerly stylized in uppercase as PEPSI ) is a  कार्बोनेटेड नरम पेय कि is उत्पादित और manufactured by पेप्सिको  .
Created and developed  in 1893 और introduced as ब्रैड 's पेय , it थी renamed as  Pepsi-Cola on August 28 , 1898 , then to Pepsi in 1961 .
The  किताब of ezekiel is the तीसरा of the latter नबियों in the यहूदी  Bible , following the books of Isaiah and Jeremiah and preceding the Book of the Twelve .
( The order is somewhat different in  the ईसाई बूढ़ा वसीयत ) .
It derives its name from , and records the  visions of , the 6th सदी bc पुजारी और नबी ezekiel  .
According to the book , the prophet , exiled in  बाबुल , अनुभवी a श्रेणी of सात visions दौरान the 22 सालो  from 593 to 571 BC , a period which spans the final destruction of Jerusalem in 586 .
The visions , and the book , are structured around three themes : ( 1 ) judgment on Israel ( chapters 1-24 ) ; ( 2 )  निर्णय on the राष्ट्र ( अध्याय 25-32 ) ; और भविष्य आशीर्वाद लिये  Israel ( chapters 33-48 ) .
New Orleans (  or , locally or ; ) is a प्रमुख संयुक्त राज्य  port and the largest city and metropolitan area in the state of Louisiana .
The  जनसांख्यिकी of  the city was 343,829 as of the 2010 U.S. Census .
The New  ऑरलियन्स महानगर क्षेत्रफल ( नई orleans–metairie–kenner महानगर सांख्यिकीय  Area ) had a population of 1,167,764 in 2010 and was the 46th largest in the United States .
The  नई orleans–metairie–bogalusa संयुक्त सांख्यिकीय क्षेत्रफल  , a larger trading area , had a 2010 population of 1,214,932 .
The city is named after Orléans , a city located on the  loire नदी in केन्द्र , फ़्रांस , और is खूब  known for its distinct French Creole architecture , as well as its cross-cultural and multilingual heritage .
New  ऑरलियन्स is भी प्रसिद्ध लिये इसके भोजन , म्यूज़िक ( विशेषकर as the जन्मस्थान  of jazz ) , and its annual celebrations and festivals , most notably Mardi Gras .
The city is often referred to as  the `` सबसे अद्वितीय '' in अमेरिका  .
New  ऑरलियन्स is स्तिथ in southeastern  Louisiana , straddling the Mississippi River .
the नगर और ऑरलियन्स  Parish ( ) are .
The city and parish are bounded by the parishes of St. Tammany to the north , St. Bernard to the east , Plaquemines  to the दक्षिण और जेफरसन to the  south and west .
Lake Pontchartrain , part  of जिससे is शामिल in  the city limits , lies to the north and Lake Borgne lies to the east .
The National  जनम कंट्रोल लीग थी a जनम  control organization in the United States .
It was founded in March 1915 by Mary  dennett , क्लारा gruening stillman और  Jessie Ashley .
Its main purpose was to overturn the  कानून जिससे बैन contraceptives  from the U.S. mails .
Campaigns were mounted in  नई यॉर्क , लकिन in 1919 the लीग थी disbanded  and reformed into the Voluntary Parenthood League .
Cancer , known medically as a malignant neoplasm  , is a व्यापक समूह of विभिन्न रोगों , सब involving  unregulated cell growth .
In cancer , cells divide  और grow uncontrollably , forming malignant  tumors , and invade nearby parts of the body .
the कर्कट may भी स्प्रेड to अधिक दूर भाग  of the body through the lymphatic system or bloodstream .
Not  सब tumors हैं  cancerous .
benign tumors do नहीं grow uncontrollably , do नहीं invade  neighboring tissues , and do not spread throughout the body .
There are over 200  अलग ज्ञात cancers  that afflict humans .
determining कया कल्याणकारी  cancer is complex .
Many things are known to increase the  रिस्क of कर्कट , सहित तम्बाकू उपयोग , निश्चित infections , विकिरण , कमी of  physical activity , obesity , and environmental pollutants .
These can directly damage genes or  combine साथ मौजूदा जेनेटिक त्रुटियां  within cells to cause the disease .
Approximately  पाँच to टेन प्रतिशत of cancers  are entirely hereditary .
Cancer can be detected in a  क्रमांक of तरीके , सहित the उपस्थिति of निश्चित लक्षण और  symptoms , screening tests , or medical imaging .
Once a possible cancer is  detected it is diagnosed  by microscopic examination of a tissue sample .
Cancer is  प्रायः treated साथ कीमोथेरेपी  , radiation therapy and surgery .
The chances of surviving the disease vary greatly by the type and  स्थान of the कर्कट और the extent of बीमारी at  the start of treatment .
While cancer can affect people of all ages , and a few types of cancer are more common in children ,  the रिस्क of विकासशील कर्कट generally increases साथ  age .
In 2007 , cancer caused  परिचय 13 % of सब इंसान मौतों विश्वव्यापी  ( 7.9 million ) .
Rates are rising as more people live to an old age and as mass lifestyle  परिवर्तन occur in the विकासशील संसार  .
Spring ski touring  on hardangervidda  , Norway
Skiing is a recreational activity and competitive sport in which the participant attaches long runners or skis  to बूट or जूते on the फीट और उपयोग उन्हें to सफर on शीर्ष of हिम  .
Aside from recreation and competition , skiing has been used for military purposes  और भी यात्राएं in क्षेत्रों कि अनुभव  heavy snowfall .
Many types of  प्रतिस्पर्धी स्कीइंग कार्यक्रम हैं पहचाना by the  International Olympic Committee , and the International Ski Federation .
John Maynard Keynes , 1st Baron Keynes , CB , FBA ( ; 5 June 1883 – 21 April 1946 ) was a British economist whose ideas have  fundamentally प्रभावित the सिद्धान्त और अभ्यास of आधुनिक macroeconomics , और सूचित the आर्थिक नीतियों  of governments .
He built on and greatly refined earlier  कार्य on the कल्याणकारी of कारोबार चक्र , और  is widely considered to be one of the founders of modern macroeconomics and the most influential economist of the 20th century .
His  विचार हैं the आधार लिये the स्कूल of विचार  known as Keynesian economics , as well as its various offshoots .
In many ways , subsequent developments in 20th century economics can be  viewed as either भवन on keynes '  ideas or reacting against them .
In the 1930s , Keynes spearheaded a revolution in economic thinking , overturning the older ideas of neoclassical economics  कि आयोजित कि फ़्री बाज़ार होता , in the  short to medium term , automatically provide full employment , as long as workers were flexible in their wage demands .
Keynes instead argued that aggregate demand  संकल्पित the overall स्तर of आर्थिक कार्यकलाप , और कि अपर्याप्त कुल माँग could सीसे  to prolonged periods of high unemployment .
He advocated the use of fiscal and monetary measures to mitigate  the प्रतिकूल प्रभाव of आर्थिक  recessions and depressions .
Following the outbreak of the Second World War , Keynes 's  विचार concerning आर्थिक नीति यहूद अपनाया by अग्रणी  Western economies .
In 1942 , Keynes was awarded a  खानदानी peerage as सामन्त keynes of tilton in the काउंटी  of Sussex .
Keynes died in 1946 , but during the 1950s and 1960s the success of Keynesian  अर्थशास्त्र resulted in लगभग सब पूंजीवादी सरकारें adopting  its policy recommendations .
Keynes 's influence waned in the 1970s , partly as a result of  समस्याएं कि began to पहुँचकर the anglo-american economies इससे the प्रारंभ of the दशक , और  partly because of critiques from Milton Friedman and other economists who were pessimistic about the ability of governments to regulate the business cycle with fiscal policy .
However , the advent of the global  वित्तीय संकट in 2007 caused a  resurgence in Keynesian thought .
Keynesian economics provided the theoretical underpinning for economic policies undertaken in response to the crisis by Presidents George W. Bush and Barack Obama of  the संयुक्त राज्य , प्रधान मंत्री गॉर्डन भूरा of the संयुक्त किंगडम , और अन्य heads of  governments .
In 1999 , Time magazine included Keynes in their list of the 100 most important  और influential लोगों of the 20th सदी , commenting कि : `` उसके कट्टरपंथी विचार कि सरकारें चाहिए खर्च  money they do n't have may have saved capitalism . ''
In addition to  होने an अर्थशास्त्री , keynes थी भी a सिविल नौकर , a निदेशक of  the British Eugenics Society , a director of the Bank of England , a patron of the arts and an art collector , a part of the Bloomsbury Group of intellectuals , an advisor to several charitable trusts , a writer , a philosopher , a private investor , and a farmer .
This 1768 parchment ( 612×502 mm ) by Jekuthiel Sofer  emulated the 1675 टेन आयतें at the  Amsterdam Esnoga synagogue .
The Ten Commandments , also known as the Decalogue ,  हैं a नियत of biblical कानून relating to आचार और इबादत , जिससे  play a fundamental role in Judaism , Islam and Christianity .
They include instructions to worship only God , to keep the sabbath  पावन और prohibitions विरूद्ध idolatry , इनकार  , murder , theft , deception and adultery .
Different groups follow slightly different traditions for  interpreting और क्रमांकन उन्हें .
The Ten Commandments appear  twice in the यहूदी बाइबल , in the किताबे  of Exodus and Deuteronomy .
According to the story in Exodus , God  inscribed उन्हें on दो स्टोन टैबलेट  , which he gave to Moses on Mount Sinai .
Modern  स्कॉलरशिप रै मिला संभावित प्रभाव  in Hittite and Mesopotamian laws and treaties , but is divided over exactly when the Ten Commandments were written and who wrote them .
The discography of the English alternative rock band The Smiths consists of four  स्टुडियो एल्बम , एक विस्तारित खेल ( ep ) , एक सजीव एल्बम  , ten compilation albums , twenty singles , one video album and fourteen music videos on the Rough Trade , Sire and WEA record labels .
The  बैंड थी formed in 1982 in मैनचेस्टर by vocalist morrissey  , guitarist Johnny Marr , bass player Andy Rourke and drummer Mike Joyce .
Despite being championed by  बीबीसी रेडियो 1 डिस्क jockey जॉन छिलके , the बैंड  's debut single , `` Hand in Glove `` ( May 1983 ) , failed to chart .
Its follow-up , `` This Charming Man `` ( October 1983 ) , met with critical  acclaim और पहुँचे क्रमांक twenty-five  on the UK Singles Chart .
The Smiths ' cult status was  followed by मुख्यधारा कामयाबी in 1984 , as वे पहुँचे क्रमांक बारह in the uk साथ the `` कया अंतर करता  It Make ? `` single and reached number two on the UK Albums Chart with their debut album , The Smiths ( 1984 ) .
Their next three singles all reached the top twenty of  the चार्ट in the uk , helping to consolidate  their previous chart success .
The next studio album , Meat Is Murder ( 1985 ) , reached the top of the British  चार्ट ; however , the तभी सिंगल to be released इससे the एल्बम , ``  That Joke Is n't Funny Anymore `` ( 1985 ) , failed to break the UK Top 40 .
Returning to form , The Smiths ' next six singles all reached the higher than number  तीस in the uk और उनके तीसरा एल्बम , the महारानी is मुर्दे  ( 1986 ) , reached number two in the UK .
Despite the band 's chart success , Marr left the group in  अगस्त 1987 due to a strained संबंध साथ  Morrissey .
Failing to find a replacement  , the smiths disbanded by the समय उनके फाइनल स्टुडियो एल्बम ,  Strangeways , Here We Come , was released in September that year .
Strangeways , Here We Come reached number two in the UK and became the  बैंड 's highest-charting रिलीज in the संयुक्त राज्य  when it reached number fifty-five on the Billboard 200 .
In early 1992 , WEA acquired the entire back catalogue of The Smiths and produced two compilations – Best  ... i और ... बेहतरीन ii – the पहला of जिससे पहुँचे the शीर्ष of the uk एल्बम चार्ट  .
WEA released two further singles compilations in 1995 and 2001 , with a further compilation ,  the ध्वनि of the smiths , released in नवम्बर 2008  .
Gone with the Wind is a novel  लिखा by मार्गरेट मिशेल , पहला प्रकाशित  in 1936 .
It is  प्रायः लगाई in  the literary sub-genre of the historical romance novel .
However , it has been argued the  अनोखा is a `` निकट मिस '' और करता नहीं contain सब of the तत्व of the रोमांस  genre , making it simply a historical novel .
The story is set in Clayton County , Georgia , and Atlanta  दौरान the अमरीकी सिविल युद्ध और पुनर्निर्माण  .
It depicts the experiences of Scarlett O'Hara  , the बिगड़े बेटी of a well-to-do वृक्षारोपण मालिक , जो जरूर  use every means at her disposal to come out of the poverty she finds herself in after Sherman 's `` March to the Sea '' .
Margaret Mitchell began writing Gone with the  हवा in 1926 to pass the  time while recovering from an auto-crash injury that refused to heal .
In April 1935 ,  हेरोल्ड लैथम of macmillan  , an editor who was looking for new fiction , read what she had written and saw that it could be a best-seller .
बाद लैथम सहमत to प्रकाशित the किताब , मिशेल worked लिये another छह  months checking the historical references , and rewrote the opening chapter several times .
Mitchell and her husband John Marsh , a copy editor by  व्यापार , संपादित the फाइनल संस्करण  of the novel .
Mitchell wrote the book 's final moments  पहला , और तब लिखा the कार्यक्रम कि led  up to it .
As to what became of her lovers , Rhett and Scarlett , after the novel ended  , मिशेल किया नहीं जान , और कहा , `` लिये सब i जान , रहेट may have  found someone else who was less difficult . ''
Mitchell received the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction  लिये the किताब  in 1937 .
the किताब थी adapted  into a 1939 American film .
Gone with the Wind is the only  अनोखा by मिशेल प्रकाशित  during her lifetime .
endodontics ( इससे the यूनानी endo `` अंदर '' ; और odons `` दाँत '' ) is एक of the दंत specialties  recognized by the American Dental Association , Royal College of Dentists of Canada , and Royal Australasian College of Dental Surgeons , and deals with the tooth pulp and the tissues surrounding the root of a tooth .
Endodontists perform a variety of procedures including endodontic therapy ( commonly known as `` root canal therapy '' ) , endodontic retreatment ,  सर्जरी , treating cracked दांत , और  treating dental trauma .
Root  कनाल चिकित्सा is एक  of the most common procedures .
If the pulp ( containing nerves , arterioles , venules , lymphatic tissue , and fibrous tissue ) becomes diseased or injured , endodontic treatment  is जरूरी to सहेजें the दाँत  .
Serial Attached SCSI ( SAS ) is a point-to-point serial protocol that  चालें आंकड़ा to और इससे कंप्यूटर भंडार डिवाइस ऐसे  as hard drives and tape drives .
SAS replaces the older Parallel SCSI (  सुनाया `` scuzzy '' ) बस  technology that first appeared in the mid-1980s .
SAS , like its predecessor ,  उपयोग the मानक scsi  command set .
SAS offers  पिछड़ा संगतता साथ second-generation  SATA drives .
SATA 3 Gbit/s drives may be  कनेक्ट to sas backplanes , लकिन sas ड्राइव can नहीं कनेक्ट to  SATA backplanes .
The T10 technical committee  of the अंतरराष्ट्रीय कमेटी लिये सूचना प्रौद्योगिकी मानकों ( incits ) develops  and maintains the SAS protocol ; the SCSI Trade Association ( SCSITA ) promotes the technology .
भाग of the संवैधानिक प्रावधान  as it appeared in 1787
Status as a natural-born citizen of the United States is  एक of the पात्रता आवश्यकताएँ स्थापित in the संयुक्त  States Constitution for election to the office of President or Vice President .
This  आवश्यकता थी intended to protect  the nation from foreign influence .
The Constitution  करता नहीं define the phrase natural-born नागरिक  , and various opinions have been offered over time regarding its precise meaning .
A 2011  congressional शोध सेवा  report stated
The natural-born-citizen clause has been mentioned in passing in several decisions of the  संयुक्त राज्य परम् अदालत और निम्नतर न्यायालयों dealing साथ the सवाल of पात्रता लिये नागरिकता by  birth , but the Supreme Court has never directly addressed the question of a specific presidential or vice-presidential candidate 's eligibility as a natural-born citizen .
Kurtis Eugene  `` कर्ट '' warner ( born जून  22 , 1971 ) is a former American football player .
He played quarterback for three  नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग ( एनएफएल ) टीमों : the st. लुई मेढ़ों  , the New York Giants , and the Arizona Cardinals .
He was  originally हस्ताक्षरित by the ग्रीन खाड़ी पैकर्स as an  undrafted free agent in 1994 after playing college football at Northern Iowa .
Warner would go on to be considered the best undrafted player of all  समय , following a 12-year करियर regarded as एक of the  greatest stories in NFL history .
Warner first attained stardom while playing  लिये the st. लुई मेढ़ों इससे 1998 to 2003 , जहाँ he जीती दो  NFL MVP awards in 1999 and 2001 as well as the Super Bowl MVP award in Super Bowl XXXIV .
He led the 2008 Arizona  कार्डिनल्स to सुपर कटोरी xliii ( the  franchise 's first Super Bowl berth ) , and owns the three highest single-game passing yardage totals in Super Bowl history .
Warner currently holds the seventh-highest career passer rating of all-time ( 93.7 ) , and the third-highest career completion  प्रतिशत in एनएफएल इतिहास साथ  65.5 % .
In 13 career playoff games , Warner ranks first all-time in completion  प्रतिशत ( 66.5 % ) , गज प्रति attempt ( 8.55 ) ,  and second in passer rating ( 102.8 ) .
He also  holds the उच्चतम पूर्णता प्रतिशत लिये a सिंगल खेल दौरान the नियमित ऋतु  , at 92.3 percent ( 24/26 ) , on September 20 , 2009 , against the Jacksonville Jaguars .
He announced his retirement on  जनवरी 29 , 2010. < संदर्भ name='cnn  2010-01-29 ' >
Janet  काय ruthven hagan ( ; born may 26 , 1953 ) is the  junior United States Senator from North Carolina , in office since January 2009 .
Previously she  परोसा in the उत्तर कैरोलिना सीनेट  from 1999 to 2009 .
She is a member of the  लोकतांत्रिक पार्टी और is viewed as  a moderate member of her party .
When Hagan defeated Republican  लाज़िम एलिज़ाबेथ dole in the 2008 संयुक्त राज्य सीनेट  election , she became the first woman to defeat an incumbent woman in a Senate election .
The Heisman  मेमोरियल ट्रॉफी पुरस्कार ( प्रायः ज्ञात colloquially  as the Heisman Trophy or the Heisman ) , is awarded annually to the player deemed the most outstanding player in collegiate football .
It was created in 1935 as the Downtown Athletic Club  ट्रॉफी और renamed in 1936 following the मौत of the क्लबों 's एथलेटिक निदेशक , जॉन heisman ( पूर्व भूरा विश्वविद्यालयों और विश्वविद्यालयों of पेन्सिलवेनिया  player ; head football coach at Oberlin College , Auburn University , Clemson University , Rice University , and the University of Pennsylvania ; and football , basketball , and baseball head coach and athletic director at Georgia Tech ) .
The award is presented by the  heisman ट्रॉफी विश्वास in जल्दी दिसम्बर  before the postseason bowl games .
It is the oldest of several overall awards in college football , including the Maxwell Award ,  वाल्टर शिविर पुरस्कार , और the ap खिलाड़ी of the साल  .
The Heisman and the AP Player of the Year are the only awards to honor the most  बकाया खिलाड़ी , जबकि the मैक्सवेल पुरस्कार और वाल्टर शिविर  Award recognize the best player , and the Archie Griffin Award recognizes the most valuable player .
The United Nations Command ( UNC ) is the unified command structure for the multinational military forces supporting the Republic of Korea (  दक्षिण कोरियाई or rok ) दौरान और बाद the कोरियाई युद्ध  .
After troops of the Democratic People 's Republic of Korea ( North  कोरियाई or dprk ) invaded दक्षिण कोरियाई on जून 25 , 1950  , the United Nations Security Council adopted Resolution 82 calling on North Korea to cease hostilities and withdraw to the 38th parallel .
On June 27 , 1950 , it adopted Resolution 83 ,  recommending कि सदस्यों of the संयुक्त राष्ट्र provide सहायता to the गणतंत्र  of Korea `` to repel the armed attack and to restore international peace and security to the area '' .
Security  परिषद रेज़ोल्यूशन 84 , अपनाया on जुलाई 7 , 1950 , अनुशंसित कि सदस्यों providing सैन्य शक्तियां और अन्य सहायता  to South Korea `` make such forces and other assistance available to a unified command under the United States of America '' .
हालांकि the रिज़ॉल्यूशन सुझाया the शक्तियां अंतर्गत  the UNC were `` United Nations forces '' , and United Nations itself could be considered a belligerent , in practice the United Nations exercised no control over the combat forces , which were controlled by the United States .
Most observers concluded that the forces under the UNC were not in law United Nations  सैनिकों , और the अधिनियमों of the unc यहूद नहीं the अधिनियमों of the संयुक्त  Nations .
The UNC can be regarded as an  गठबंधन of नेशनल सेना , ऑपरेटिंग अंतर्गत the सामूहिक सही  of self-defense .
On August 29 , 1950 , the British Commonwealth 's 27th Infantry  ब्रिगेड arrived at बुसान to जुड़ें the unc , जिससे जबतक  then included only ROK and U.S. forces .
The 27th  ब्रिगेड स्थानांतरित into the naktong  River line west of Daegu .
Troop units from other countries  of the un followed in रैपिड उत्तराधिकार ; ऑस्ट्रेलिया , belgian  United Nations Command , Canada , Colombia , Ethiopia , France , Greece , Luxembourg , the Netherlands , New Zealand , the Philippines , Thailand and Turkey .
The Union of South Africa provided air units which  लड़ा alongside the एयर शक्तियां of अन्य सदस्य  nations .
Denmark ,  इण्डिया , नार्वे , और स्वीडन provided  medical units .
Italy provided a hospital , even  हालांकि it थी नहीं a un सदस्य  .
The United Nations Command and the  chinese-north कोरियाई कमांड हस्ताक्षरित the कोरियाई armistice अनुबंध on 27 जुलाई  1953 , ending the heavy fighting .
the armistice अनुबंध स्थापित the सैन्य armistice  Commission ( MAC ) , consisting of representatives of the two signatories , to supervise the implementation of the armistice terms .
The North  korean-chinese मैक रै महरूम replaced by  Panmumjon Representatives under exclusive North Korean management .
Regular meetings have been stopped , although duty officers of Joint Security Area , commonly known as the Truce Village of  panmunjom , इससे प्रत्येक पक्ष मिलें regularly  .
Lincoln Heights is an American family drama television series about Eddie Sutton ,  a मिशन विस्टा पुलिस अधिकारी जो चालें उसके परिवार वापस to उसके बूढ़ा पड़ोस , lincoln हाइट्स  , to start a new life and to help out his old neighborhood .
It is a dangerous place to raise a family , and through the many  ट्रायल the परिवार goes through , वे जल्द सीख  that settling in is not as easy as it seems .
While Officer  सटन struggles to cope साथ प्रत्येक दिन जीवन as a गली cop in लॉस एंजिल्स , उसके बच्चे कोशिश  to fit in at their new schools and with their new neighbors .
The show premiered January 8 , 2007 on the ABC Family network with 13 episodes ordered  लिये the पहला ऋतु  .
it थी स्वीकृत लिये a दूसरी ऋतु  , which premiered September 4 , 2007 .
Vanessa Hudgens ' song , Say  ok था महरूम प्रयुक्त in a वाणिज्यिक to प्रचार  the second season .
To promote the third season , they showed clips of Cassie and Charles 's relationship to the song , Crush by  the अमरीकी आइडल 's सातवाँ  season runner-up , David Archuleta .
To promote season 4  , वे 're using the सोंग , हिमस्खलन by मारी  Digby .
The show 's theme song was written and performed by bassist Stanley Clarke and  singer-songwriter blaire reinhard .
On January 29 , 2010 ,  एबीसी परिवार घोषित the रद्दीकरण  of the series after four seasons .
A Christian denomination is an  identifiable धार्मिक देह  under a common name , structure , and doctrine within Christianity .
In the Orthodox tradition , churches are divided often along  जातीय और भाषाई लाइनों , into पृथक  churches and traditions .
Technically , divisions between one group and  another हैं पारिभाषित by doctrine  and church authority .
Issues  ऐसे as the प्रकृति of यीशु , the प्राधिकार of अपोस्टोलिक  succession , eschatology , and papal primacy separate one denomination from another .
The Roman Catholic Church is the largest denomination with over 1.1 billion members , over half of all Christians worldwide , making it the largest denomination for any religion worldwide (  हालांकि the गिरिजाघर करता नहीं दृश्य itself as a denomination , लकिन as the असली pre-denominational गिरिजाघर  ) .
Protestant denominations comprise roughly 38–39 % of Christians worldwide , and  साथ the catholics , protestants , anglicans , और अन्य closely  related denominations comprise Western Christianity .
the पूर्वी परंपरागत गिरिजाघर , प्राच्य परंपरागत चर्च  and the Assyrian Church of the East are considered Eastern Christian denominations .
Western  ईसाई denominations जीतना  in Western Europe and its former colonies .
Eastern Christian  denominations हैं represented ज़्यादातर in पूर्वी  Europe , the Middle East and North Africa .
Christians have various doctrines about the Church , the body of faithful that they believe  थी स्थापित by यीशु मसीह , और कैसा the  divine church corresponds to Christian denominations .
Both the Catholics and the Eastern Orthodox consider each of  themselves solely to faithfully represent the एक पावन कैथोलिक  and Apostolic Church to the exclusion of the other .
Protestants separated from the Catholic Church because of theologies and practices that they  माना to be in उल्लंघन of उनके  interpretation .
Generally , members of the various denominations acknowledge each other as Christians , at least to the extent that they have mutually recognized baptisms and acknowledge historically orthodox  दृश्य सहित the देवत्व of यीशु और doctrines of सिन और मोक्ष , भी हालांकि doctrinal और ecclesiological बाधाएं रोकते पूरा नियाज़ between  churches .
Since the reforms surrounding Vatican II , the Catholic Church has referred to Protestant communities as `` denominations '' , while reserving the term ``  गिरिजाघर '' लिये अपोस्टोलिक चर्च , सहित the पूर्वी परंपरागत ( देखिए subsistit in  and branch theory ) .
There are however some  non-denominational ईसाइयों जो do नहीं follow  any particular branch .
The panda (  ailuropoda  melanoleuca , lit .
`` black and white cat-foot '' ) , also known as the giant panda to distinguish it from the unrelated red panda , is a bear  देशी to central-western और दक्षिण पश्चिमी चीन .
It is easily  पहचाना by the विशाल , distinctive  black patches around its eyes , over the ears , and across its round body .
Though it belongs  to the अनुक्रम carnivora  , the panda 's diet is 99 % bamboo .
pandas in the जंगली होगा occasionally खा अन्य  grasses , wild tubers , or even meat in the form of birds , rodents or carrion .
In captivity  , वे may प्राप्त मधु , अंडे , मछली , yams  , shrub leaves , oranges , or bananas along with specially prepared food .
The giant panda lives in a few mountain ranges  in सेंट्रल चीन , मुख्यतः  in Sichuan province , but also in the Shaanxi and Gansu provinces .
As a result of farming , deforestation and other development , the  पांडा रै महरूम चलित आउट of the lowland  areas where it once lived .
The panda is  a संरक्षण reliant  endangered species .
A 2007 report shows 239 pandas living in captivity  अंदर चीन और another 27 बाहर the देश  .
Wild population estimates vary ; one estimate  shows कि वहीँ हैं परिचय 1,590 individuals जीना in the जंगली  , while a 2006 study via DNA analysis estimated that this figure could be as high as 2,000 to 3,000 .
Some  रिपोर्ट्स भी दिखाएँ कि the क्रमांक  of pandas in the wild is on the rise .
However , the IUCN does not believe there is enough certainty  yet to reclassify the प्रजाति इससे endangered to  Vulnerable .
While the dragon has often served as China 's national emblem ,  internationally the पांडा appears  at least as commonly .
As such , it is becoming widely used within China in  अंतरराष्ट्रीय contexts , लिये उदाहरण the  five Fuwa mascots of the Beijing Olympics .
The Kite Runner is a 2007 American drama film directed by Marc Forster based  on the अनोखा of the वही नाम  by Khaled Hosseini .
It tells the story of Amir , a well-to-do boy from the Wazir Akbar Khan district of Kabul , who is  tormented by the guilt of abandoning उसके dost हसन , the बेटे of उसके पिता  's Hazara servant .
The story is set against a  backdrop of उग्र  events , from the fall of the monarchy in Afghanistan through the Soviet military intervention , the mass exodus of Afghan refugees to Pakistan and the United States , and the Taliban regime .
Though  सबसे of the फिल्मी is नियत in अफगानिस्तान , ये भाग यहूद ज़्यादातर शॉट in  Kashgar , China , due to the dangers of filming in Afghanistan at the time .
The majority of the film 's  संवाद is in जमींदारी , साथ the शेष  spoken in English .
The child actors  हैं देशी अध्यक्षों , लकिन अनेक वयस्क  actors had to learn Dari .
Filming wrapped up on December 21 , 2006 , and the film was  अपेक्षित to be released on नवम्बर 2  , 2007 .
However , after concern for the safety of the young actors in the film due to fears of violent reprisals to the sexual nature of some  दृश्यों in जिससे वे appear , इसके रिलीज तिथि थी धकेल वापस छह सप्ताह to  December 14 , 2007 .
the पतंग धावक थी released  on DVD on March 25 , 2008 .
A HD DVD release was announced for the same date , but  थी रद्द following the स्वरूप  's demise .
The film  थी मनोनीत लिये the सुनहरी ग्लोब पुरस्कार  for Best Foreign Language Film in 2007 .
The film 's  स्कोर by अल्बर्टो इग्लेसियस थी मनोनीत  for Best Original Score at the Golden Globes and the Academy Awards .
The legality of  कैनबिस varies इससे देश to  country .
Possession of cannabis is illegal in most  देशों और रै महरूम चूंकि the  beginning of widespread cannabis prohibition in the late 1930s .
However , many countries have decriminalized the  कब्ज़ा of छोटी quantities of कैनबिस , विशेषकर  in North America , South America and Europe .
Furthermore , possession is legal or effectively legal in the Netherlands , North Korea and would be in the U.S. states of Colorado and  वॉशिंगटन if it यहूद नहीं लिये संघीय विधि , जिससे governs व्यक्तियों in सब राज्य  .
The medicinal use of cannabis is legal in a number of countries  , सहित कनाडा , the  Czech Republic and Israel .
While federal law in the United States bans all sale and possession of cannabis , enforcement varies widely at the state level and some states have  स्थापित औषधीय मारिजुआना कार्यक्रम in कि खण्डन संघीय विधि ; दो राज्य ( कोलोराडो और वॉशिंगटन ) have repealed  their laws prohibiting the recreational use of cannabis and replaced them with a regulatory regime , also contrary to federal statute .
Some countries have  कानून कि हैं नहीं as vigorously prosecuted as अन्य लकिन , अलावा  from the countries that offer access to medical marijuana , most countries have various penalties ranging from lenient to very severe .
Some infractions are taken more seriously in some countries than others in regard to the cultivation , use , possession  or ट्रांसफ़र of कैनबिस लिये recreational उपयोग  .
A few jurisdictions have lessened penalties for possession of small quantities of cannabis , making it  दंडनीय by confiscation और a ठीक  , rather than imprisonment .
Some jurisdictions/ drug courts use  अनिवार्य उपचार कार्यक्रम लिये यंग or बारंबार उपयोक्ता , साथ स्वतंत्रता  from narcotic drugs as the goal and a few jurisdictions permit cannabis use for medicinal purposes .
There are also changes in a more restrictive  दिशा as in  Canada .
Drug tests to detect  कैनबिस हैं increasingly आम in अनेक देशों और have  resulted in jail sentences and people losing their jobs .
however , सरल कब्ज़ा can carry long कारावास वाक्य in कुछ देशों , विशेषकर in भाग of  East Asia and Southeast Asia where the sale of cannabis may lead to a sentence of life in prison or even execution .
Loxahatchee is a community  स्तिथ in ताड़ बीच काउंटी , फ्लोरिडा  , United States .
It  is स्तिथ in the क्षेत्रों उत्तर of वेलिंगटन और वेस्ट  and northwest of Royal Palm Beach , Florida and approximately west of West Palm Beach .
Loxahatchee is also the name of the Post  दफ्तर कि serves इस क्षेत्रफल , जिससे is अंतर्गत  the zip code of 33470 .
The name Loxahatchee  अर्थात् `` कछुआ  river . ''
Loxahatchee is located within the Indian Trails  सुधार ज़िला और the loxahatchee groves जल  Control District .
Lion Country Safari , a drive-through  safari पार्क , is स्तिथ in loxahatchee  .
In 2006 , the state of Florida approved incorporation of part of Loxahatchee as  the कस्बा of loxahatchee groves to become the 38th नगरपालिका  in Palm Beach County .
The main reason for  incorporating थी to बेहतर protect the क्षेत्रफल इससे बुवाई विकास  and to preserve the rural character of the neighborhood .
Perhaps the most rural area  भीतर a बंद निकटता to वेस्ट ताड़ बीच , साथ लॉट  sizes range from 1-20 acres .
Along  साथ the acreage , it is notable लिये ढीला  land restrictions and the native and exotic animal presence is quite notable .
Seminole Ridge High  स्कूल serves the  area .
The Canadian Citizenship Test is a test , administered by Citizenship and Immigration Canada ( CIC ) , that is required  लिये सब आवेदकों लिये कनाडाई नागरिकता जो हैं aged between 18 और 54 और जो मिलें the मौलिक आवश्यकताएँ लिये नागरिकता  .
The test is available in  दोनो फ्रेंच और अंग्रेज़ी , the आधिकारिक  languages of Canada .
Renaissance Cruises , originally founded in 1989 owned by Fearnley & Eger Rederi in Oslo - Norway , later purchased by Edward Rudner  ( संस्थापक of alamo car rental ) as the कम्पनी faltered दौरान the गल्फ युद्ध  .
They operated year-round cruise itineraries to the  भूमध्यसागरीय , the यूनानी isles , tahiti और the  South Pacific , Northern Europe and Scandinavia .
The company ceased operations on 25 September 2001 and accommodated up  to 220,000 अतिथि in  2000 .
While the company had been in poor  वित्तीय स्वास्थ्य लिये काफी कुछ समय , the आर्थिक मनाही resulting इससे the सितंबर  11th terrorist attacks are credited with the demise of this cruise line .
The  बेड़े is सूचीबद्ध अंतर्गत सूची of  cruise ships .
It was headquartered in Fort  lauderdale , फ्लोरिडा  .
Epithelium is one of the four basic types of  एनिमल ऊतक , साथ साथ संयोजी  tissue , muscle tissue and nervous tissue .
Epithelial tissues line the cavities and surfaces of  structures throughout the देह , और  also form many glands .
Functions of epithelial cells include secretion ,  चयनात्मक अवशोषण , सुरक्षा , transcellular  transport and detection of sensation .
In Greek  `` ἐπί '' ( `` epi '' ) अर्थात् `` on ''  or `` upon '' , and `` θηλή '' ( `` thēlē '' ) means `` nipple '' .
Epithelial layers are avascular , so they must receive  nourishment via diffusion of substances इससे the underlying  connective tissue , through the basement membrane .
Epithelia can also be  व्यवस्थित into क्लस्टर of कोशिकाएं कि  function as exocrine and endocrine glands .
Kent E.  hovind ( born जनवरी 15 ,  1953 ) is an American young Earth creationist .
Hovind has spoken on creation science and has aimed to convince listeners to reject theories of evolution , geophysics  , और cosmology in एहसान of उसके निर्वचन of the  Genesis creation narrative from the Bible .
Hovind 's views are  contradicted by वैज्ञानिक प्रमाण और कुछ of उसके विचार have भी महरूम criticized  by young Earth creationist organizations such as Answers in Genesis .
hovind स्थापित the सृष्टि विज्ञान इंजीलवाद in 1991 , और अक्सर  spoke on young Earth creationism at seminars at private schools and churches , debates , and on radio and television broadcasts .
Since January 2007 , Hovind has been serving a ten-year prison sentence after being convicted of 58  संघीय रिश्तो , सहित 12 कर offenses , एक गिनती of obstructing संघीय एजेंटों  , and 45 counts of structuring cash transactions .
he is incarcerated  at the Federal Correctional Institution at Berlin , New Hampshire .
Bride with Bindi  सजा माथे
A bindi ( , from Sanskrit bindu , meaning `` a drop , small particle , dot '' ) , or a pottu/bottu ( in Tamil , Telugu , and Malayalam ) is  a माथे सजावट worn in दक्षिण एशिया ( विशेषकर इण्डिया , बांग्लादेश , नेपाल , श्री लंका  and Mauritius ) and Southeast Asia .
Traditionally it is a bright dot of red color applied in the center of the forehead close to the eyebrows , but it can  भी consist of a चिह्न or टुकड़ा of आभूषण worn at इस स्थान  .
The New York gubernatorial election of 2010 was held on Tuesday , November 2 , 2010 , to elect the  राज्यपाल of नई यॉर्क , to serve a four-year पद कि began in जनवरी  2011 .
Incumbent Democratic Governor David Paterson , elected as Lieutenant  राज्यपाल in 2006 as the कार्यशील mate of पूर्व राज्यपाल एलियट स्पिट्जर  , chose not to run for a full-term .
On November 2 ,  नई यॉर्क attorney सामान्य और डेमोक्रेट  Andrew Cuomo defeated Republican Carl Paladino .
Green Party candidate Howie Hawkins received over 57,000 votes , allowing the New York Green Party to  be सूचीबद्ध on the बैलट लिये the अगला 4  years .
The main cast of Dragon Ball at  the समाप्त of the  manga .
The Dragon Ball manga and anime  श्रेणी सुविधाएँ an extensive डाल of वर्ण निर्मित  by Akira Toriyama .
The series takes place in a fictional universe , the same as Toriyama 's previous series Dr. Slump , and follows the adventures of martial artist Son Goku from childhood to  adulthood as he खोज लिये the सात spheres ज्ञात as the ड्रैगन गेंदें , प्रयुक्त to  summon a wish-granting dragon .
During the course of the story , he encounters allies such as Bulma , Yamcha , Kuririn and Trunks , rivals such as  tenshinhan , piccolo और vegeta , और दुश्मनों  such as Freeza and Cell .
While many of the characters are humans with superhuman strength and/or  अलौकिक abilities , the डाल भी शामिल anthropomorphic  animals and later , extraterrestrial lifeforms .
The series also includes depictions of the  आफ्टरलाइफ , साथ अनेक वर्ण होने देवताओं कि govern  the universe .
250px
The Comanche are a Plains  भारतीय जनजाति जिनकी ऐतिहासिक territory , ज्ञात as comancheria , consisted of उपस्थित दिन  eastern New Mexico , southern Colorado , northeastern Arizona , southern Kansas , all of Oklahoma , and most of northwest Texas .
The Comanche people are enrolled  in the federally  recognized Comanche Nation , in Oklahoma .
Historically ,  the comanches यहूद hunter-gatherers  with a horse culture .
There may have been as many as  45,000 comanches in the लेट  18th century .
Today  , the comanche स्वदेश comanche जनजातीय नामांकन संख्याएँ 15,191  with approximately 7,763 members residing in the Lawton – Fort Sill and surrounding areas of Southwest Oklahoma .
The Comanche Nation Homecoming  powwow is आयोजित annually in walters , ओक्लाहोमा in  mid-July .
The Comanche spoke the Comanche language , a Numic language of the Uto-Aztecan family , sometimes  वर्गीकृत as a shoshone dialect ; however , तभी परिचय 1  % of Comanches speak it today .
Ethan Frome is a novel published in 1911 by the Pulitzer Prize  -winning अमरीकी लेखक एडिथ व्हार्टन  .
It is set in the fictitious  कस्बा of starkfield  , Massachusetts .
The novel was adapted into a  फिल्मी , ethan frome  , in 1993 .
Times Square Studios ( TSS ) is an American  टेलीविज़न स्टुडियो स्तिथ in the टाइम्स वर्गाकार  neighborhood of the Manhattan borough of New York City , New York .
The studio is best known as the  उत्पादन घर of एबीसी न्यूज ' शुभ morning  America ( GMA ) , a morning news and talk program and segments for GMA on ABC News Now .
the लास वेगास स्ट्रिप  World of Coca-Cola museum in 2003
Coca-Cola is a carbonated soft drink sold  in स्टोर्स , रेस्तरां  , and vending machines in every country except Cuba and North Korea .
It is produced by The Coca-Cola Company of  अटलांटा , जॉर्जिया , और is प्रायः referred to बस as कोक ( a पंजीकृत ट्रेडमार्क  of The Coca-Cola Company in the United States since March 27 , 1944 ) .
Originally intended as  a पेटेंट आयुर्विज्ञान जब it थी invented in the लेट 19th सदी by जॉन pemberton , coca-cola थी खरीदा आउट by बिजनेसमैन asa  Griggs Candler , whose marketing tactics led Coke to its dominance of the world soft-drink market throughout the 20th century .
The company produces concentrate , which is  तब बेची to licensed coca-cola bottlers throughout the संसार  .
The bottlers , who hold territorially exclusive contracts with the company , produce finished product in cans and bottles from the concentrate in combination  साथ filtered जल और  sweeteners .
The bottlers then sell , distribute and merchandise  coca-cola to खुदरा स्टोर्स  and vending machines .
Such bottlers  शामिल coca-cola उद्यमों , जिससे is the largest सिंगल coca-cola  bottler in North America and western Europe .
The Coca-Cola  कम्पनी भी बिकता concentrate लिये सोडा स्रोतों  to major restaurants and food service distributors .
The Coca-Cola Company has , on occasion  , introduced अन्य कोला पेय  under the Coke brand name .
The most common of these is Diet Coke , with others including Caffeine-Free Coca-Cola , Diet Coke  caffeine-free , coca-cola चेरी , coca-cola शून्य , coca-cola वैनिला , और खास संस्करण साथ नीबू , लाइम or कॉफी  .
Based on Interbrand 's best  वैश्विक ब्रांड 2011 , coca-cola थी the  world 's most valuable brand .
Types  of bar-lines
In musical  संकेतन , a बार ( or माप ) is a खण्ड of समय पारिभाषित  by a given number of beats , each of which are assigned a particular note value .
Dividing music into bars  provides नियमित सन्दर्भ अंक to pin  point locations within a piece of music .
It also makes written music easier  to follow , चूंकि प्रत्येक बार of स्टाफ प्रतीकों  can be read and played as a batch .
Typically , a piece consists of several bars of the same length , and in modern musical notation the number of beats in each bar is  निर्दिष्ट at the शुरूआत of the स्कोर by the शीर्ष क्रमांक of a समय हस्ताक्षर ( ऐसे as 3/4 ) , जबकि the नीचे क्रमांक  indicates the note value of the beat ( the beat has a quarter note value in the 3/4 example ) .
The word bar is more common in British English , and  the शब्द माप is अधिक आम in अमरीकी अंग्रेज़ी , हालांकि  musicians generally understand both usages .
In American English  , हालांकि the शब्द बार और माप हैं प्रायः  used interchangeably the correct use of the word 'bar ' refers only to the vertical line itself , while the word 'measure ' refers to the beats contained between bars .
In international usage , it is equally  सही to बोलो of बार संख्याएँ और माप संख्याएँ , e.g  . ‘bars 9–16’ or ‘mm . 9–16’ .
Along the same lines , it is  हिकमत to आरक्षित the abbreviated  form ‘bb .
3–4’ etc  . लिये बीट्स तभी ; बार चाहिए  be referred to by name in full .
The first metrically complete measure within a piece of  म्यूज़िक is पुकारा ‘bar 1’ or ‘m  . 1’ .
When the piece begins with an anacrusis ( an incomplete measure at the head of a piece  of म्यूज़िक ) , ‘bar 1’ or ‘m . 1’ is the following  measure .
The 19.9 MW  gemasolar सौर संयंत्र in स्पेन  features 15 hours of storage and can supply power 24 hours a day .
Solar energy , radiant light and heat  इससे the सूर्य , रै महरूम harnessed by  humans since ancient times using a range of ever-evolving technologies .
Solar energy technologies include solar heating , solar photovoltaics , solar thermal electricity , solar architecture and artificial photosynthesis , which can make considerable contributions to solving  कुछ of the सबसे तात्कालिक उर्जा समस्याएं the संसार  now faces .
Solar  technologies हैं broadly characterized  as either passive solar or active solar depending on the way they capture , convert and distribute solar energy .
Active solar techniques  शामिल the उपयोग of photovoltaic  panels and solar thermal collectors to harness the energy .
Passive solar techniques include orienting a building to the Sun , selecting materials with favorable  थर्मल द्रव्यमान or लाइट dispersing गुण  , and designing spaces that naturally circulate air .
In 2011 , the International Energy Agency said that `` the development of affordable ,  inexhaustible और साफ सौर उर्जा technologies होगा have विशाल longer-term  benefits .
It will increase countries’ energy security  through रिलायंस on an स्वदेशी , inexhaustible और ज़्यादातर import-independent संसाधन , बढ़ाएँ स्थिरता , reduce प्रदूषण  , lower the costs of mitigating climate change , and keep fossil fuel prices lower than otherwise .
These  लाभ  are global .
Hence the additional costs  of the प्रोत्साहन लिये जल्दी deployment चाहिए be माना सीखना  investments ; they must be wisely spent and need to be widely shared '' .
प्राथमिक परवाह  may be provided in community health centres .
Primary care is  the स्वास्थ्य परवाह दिए by a स्वास्थ्य  care provider .
Typically this provider acts as the principal point of consultation for patients  भीतर a स्वास्थ्य परवाह प्रणाली और निर्देशांक अन्य specialists कि the रोगी  may need .
Such a professional can be a primary care physician , such as a general practitioner or family physician , or depending on the locality , health system organization , and patient 's discretion , they may see a pharmacist , a physician  सहायक , a नर्स practitioner , a नर्स ( ऐसे as in the संयुक्त किंगडम ) , a नैदानिक अधिकारी ( ऐसे as in भाग of अफ़्रीकी ) , or an आयुर्वेदिक or अन्य  traditional medicine professional ( such as in parts of Asia ) .
Depending on the nature of the health condition , patients may  तब be referred लिये द्वितीयक or tertiary  care .
`` Ocean Avenue '' is a  सोंग अंकित by अमरीकी पॉप पंक  group Yellowcard .
it थी released in फ़रवरी 2004 as the दूसरी  single from Ocean Avenue and the third track .
It is known for  bringing उन्हें into the मुख्यधारा  , as it received numerous spins on MTV and increasing radio airplay .
Ocean Avenue is a street  in jacksonville , फ्लोरिडा , the बैंड 's stomping grounds  near their high school , Douglas Anderson School of the Arts , and another street mentioned in the song , Cherry Street .
The name of Ocean  एवेन्यू in jacksonville is दरअसल  Beach Boulevard .
They left their original base  पीछे जब वे स्थानांतरित to  Los Angeles .
The song was  प्रदर्शित on the much म्यूज़िक  compilation album Big Shiny Tunes 9 .
A psychiatrist is a  चिकित्सक जो specializes  in psychiatry .
A  मनोचिकित्सक specializes in the उपचार  of mental disorders .
Psychiatrists are authorized  to prescribe आयुर्विज्ञान , conduct शारीरिक examinations , अनुक्रम और interpret प्रयोगशाला परीक्षण , उपयोग मनोचिकित्सा और may अनुक्रम दिमाग  imaging studies such as computed tomography ( CT/CAT Scan ) , magnetic resonance imaging ( MRI ) , and positron emission tomography ( PET ) scanning .
Within the framework of the World Health Organization 's ( WHO ) definition  of स्वास्थ्य as a राज्य of पूरा शारीरिक , दिमागी और सोशल  well-being , and not merely the absence of disease or infirmity , reproductive health , or sexual health/hygiene , addresses the reproductive processes , functions and system at all stages of life .
Reproductive health , therefore , implies that people are able to have a  जिम्मेदार , संतोषजनक और safer sex जीवन और कि वे have the काबिलियत to reproduce  and the freedom to decide if , when and how often to do so .
One interpretation of this implies that men and women ought to be informed of and to have access to safe , effective , affordable and acceptable methods of birth control ; also access to appropriate health care services of sexual , reproductive medicine  और क्रियान्वयन of स्वास्थ्य शिक्षा कार्यक्रम to तनाव the महत्व of महिलाओं to go सकुशल through गर्भावस्था और प्रसव  could provide couples with the best chance of having a healthy infant .
On the  अन्य हाथ individuals do फेस  inequalities in reproductive health services .
Inequalities vary based on socioeconomic  औकात , शिक्षा स्तर , आयु , नस्ल , धर्म , और संसाधन  available in their environment .
It is possible for example , that low income individuals lack the resources for appropriate health services and the knowledge to know what is appropriate  लिये maintaining reproductive स्वास्थ्य  .
According to the WHO , `` Reproductive and  यौन ill-health खाते लिये 20 % of the वैश्विक बोझ  of ill-health for women , and 14 % for men . ''
Reproductive health is a part of Sexual and  reproductive स्वास्थ्य और अधिकारों  .
This is a list of episodes for the Disney Channel original series The Suite Life on Deck , which aired for three seasons on Disney  चैनल इससे सितंबर 26 , 2008 to may 6 , 2011  .
Core 2 is a brand encompassing a range  of इंटेल 's उपभोक्ता 64-bit x86-64 single- ,  dual- , and quad-core microprocessors based on the Core microarchitecture .
The single- and dual-core models are single- die , whereas the  quad-core मॉडल comprise दो मरता  , each containing two cores , packaged in a multi-chip module .
The introduction of Core 2 relegated  the pentium ब्रांड to the mid-range मार्केट , और reunified लैपटॉप  and desktop CPU lines , which previously had been divided into the Pentium 4 , Pentium D , and Pentium M brands .
The Core 2 brand was introduced on 27 July 2006 , comprising the Solo (  single-core ) , duo ( dual-core ) , क्वाड ( quad-core ) , और in 2007 , the चरम  ( dual- or quad-core CPUs for enthusiasts ) subbrands .
Intel Core 2 processors with vPro technology ( designed for businesses )  शामिल the dual-core और quad-core शाखाओं  .
The Super Bowl is the annual championship game of the National Football League ( NFL ) , the highest level of professional American football in the United States , culminating  a ऋतु कि  begins in the late summer of the previous calendar year .
The  सुपर कटोरी उपयोग रोमन numerals to  identify each game , rather than the year in which it is held .
For example , Super Bowl I was played on January 15 , 1967 , following the 1966 regular season ,  जबकि सुपर कटोरी xlvii थी निभाई on फ़रवरी 3 , 2013  , following the 2012 season .
The game was created as part of a merger agreement between the NFL and its then-rival  लीग , the अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल लीग ( afl  ) .
It was  सहमत कि the दो लीग ' चैंपियन टीमों होता खेल  in an AFL–NFL World Championship Game until the merger was to officially begin in 1970 .
After the merger , each league was  redesignated as a `` सम्मेलन `` , और the खेल थी तब निभाई  between the conference champions .
Currently , the  नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल सम्मेलन ( nfc ) लीड the श्रेणी साथ  25 wins to 22 wins for the American Football Conference ( AFC ) .
The day  on जिससे the सुपर कटोरी is निभाई , अभी माना by कुछ a de  facto American national holiday , is called `` Super Bowl Sunday `` .
It is the second-largest day for U.S.  खाना खपत , बाद थैंक्सगिविंग  Day .
In addition , the Super Bowl has frequently been the most watched American  टेलीविज़न ब्रॉडकास्ट of the साल  .
Super Bowl XLV , played in 2011 , became the most-watched American television program in history , drawing an average  दर्शक of 111 लाख दर्शक और लेने over the स्पॉट आयोजित by the पिछला साल 's सुपर कटोरी , जिससे itself था  taken over the # 1 spot held for twenty-eight years by the final episode of M*A*S*H .
The Super Bowl is also among the most watched sporting events in the world , almost all being North American audiences , and is  दूसरी to संघ फ़ुटबॉल ’s यूईएफए champions लीग फाइनल as the  most watched annual sporting event worldwide .
Because of its high viewership , commercial airtime during the Super  कटोरी ब्रॉडकास्ट is the सबसे महंगी of the  year .
Due to the high cost of  निवेश in विज्ञापन on the सुपर कटोरी ,  companies regularly develop their most expensive advertisements for this broadcast .
as a परिणाम , watching और discussing  the broadcast 's commercials has become a significant aspect of the event .
in जोड , अनेक लोकप्रिय गायकों  and musicians have performed during the event 's pre-game and halftime ceremonies because of the exposure .
Fiona is a  feminine दिए  name .
The name Fiona was invented , and first used , by the Scottish poet James Macpherson ( 1736–96 ) , author  of the ossian कविताएं , जिससे he claimed यहूद अनुवाद इससे  ancient Gaelic sources ( sources , when challenged , he never produced ) .
The name was subsequently used as a pseudonym by William Sharp ( 1855–1905 ) , who authored several  रोमांटिक works अंतर्गत the नाम ``  Fiona Macleod '' .
The name has since become  लोकप्रिय in इंग्लैण्ड , स्कॉटलैंड  and Ireland .
The name is considered to be a Latinised form of the  गैलिक शब्द fionn , अर्थ ``  white '' , `` fair '' .
The name Fiona is also sometimes used as an Anglicisation of  the irish-language नाम fíona , हालांकि ये names  are otherwise unrelated ( as Fíona is derived from an element meaning `` vine '' ) .
There is also a modern  tendency to equate the प्रामाणिक स्कॉटिश गैलिक feminine  name Fionnghal with Fiona .
The name Fiona is rising in popularity particularly  in जर्मनी -speaking देशों  .
Fiona was the 49th most popular  नाम लिये baby लड़कियों born in 2008  in Germany .
Fiona was tied for third place in the ranking of most popular names for baby girls born in the tiny principality  of liechtenstein in 2008  .
The name was the 347th most popular name for girls born in the United States in 2008 , where it has ranked  among the शीर्ष 1,000 सबसे लोकप्रिय names लिये लड़कियों चूंकि 1990 और among the शीर्ष 500 चूंकि 1999 .
The name Fiona has been particularly popular  लिये लड़कियों of एशियाई or प्रशांत islander descent in नई यॉर्क नगर , जहाँ फिओना  ranked as the ninth most popular name for girls from those groups in 2007 .
Many languages are used , or  historically have महरूम प्रयुक्त in the  United States .
The most  commonly प्रयुक्त भाषा  is English .
There are also many languages indigenous to North America or to U.S. states or  holdings in the प्रशांत  region .
Languages brought to the country by colonists or immigrants from Europe , Asia , or other parts of the world make up a large portion of the languages currently used ; several  भाषाएं , सहित creoles और चिह्न भाषाएं , have भी विकसित  in the United States .
Approximately 337 languages  हैं बोला or हस्ताक्षरित by the जनसांख्यिकी , of जिससे 176 हैं स्वदेशी  to the area .
Fifty-two languages  formerly बोला in the देश 's territory  are now extinct .
The variety of English spoken  in the संयुक्त राज्य is ज्ञात  as American English .
English is the de facto national language of the United States , with 80 % of the population  claiming it as a माँ जीभ , और कुछ 95 % claiming to बोलो it `` खूब  '' or `` very well '' .
However , no official language  exists at the संघीय स्तर  .
There have been several proposals to make  अंग्रेज़ी the नेशनल भाषा in amendments to आव्रजन  reform bills , but none of these bills has become law with the amendment intact .
The situation is quite varied at the state and territorial levels , with some states mirroring the federal policy of adopting no official  भाषा in a de jure क्षमता , अन्य adopting अंग्रेज़ी अलोन , अन्य officially adopting अंग्रेज़ी as खूब as लोकल भाषाएं  , and still others adopting a policy of de facto bilingualism .
Spanish is the second most common language in the  देश , और is बोला by over 12 % of the  population .
The  संयुक्त राज्य holds the संसार 's पांचवां largest spanish-speaking जनसांख्यिकी , outnumbered  only by Mexico , Spain , Colombia , and Argentina .
Throughout the Southwestern United States , long-established Spanish-speaking  समुदायों coexist साथ विशाल संख्याएँ of अधिक हाल hispanophone  immigrants .
Although many new Latin American immigrants are less than fluent in English , nearly all second-generation Hispanic Americans  बोलो अंग्रेज़ी धड़ल्ले , जबकि तभी परिचय हाफ स्टिल बोलो स्पेनी  .
According to the 2000 US census , people of German ancestry make up the largest single ethnic group  in the संयुक्त राज्य , और the जर्मनी भाषा बाँधने  fifth .
Italian , Polish , and French are still  widely बोला among populations descending इससे आप्रवासियों इससे  those countries in the early 20th century , but the use of these languages is dwindling as the older generations die .
Russian is also  बोला by अप्रवासी populations  .
Tagalog and Vietnamese have over one million speakers each in the United  राज्य , लगभग entirely भीतर हाल  immigrant populations .
दोनो भाषाएं , साथ साथ the किस्में of the चाइनीज भाषा , जापानी  , and Korean , are now used in elections in Alaska , California , Hawaii , Illinois , New York , Texas , and Washington .
Native American languages are spoken in  छोटी pockets of the देश  , but these populations are decreasing , and the languages are almost never widely used outside of reservations .
Hawaiian , although having few native  अध्यक्षों , is an आधिकारिक भाषा साथ साथ अंग्रेज़ी  at the state level in Hawaii .
The state  सरकारी of louisiana offers सेवाएं  and documents in French , as does New Mexico in Spanish .
Besides  अंग्रेज़ी , स्पेनी , फ्रेंच , जर्मनी , navajo और अन्य देशी अमरीकी भाषाएं , सब अन्य भाषाएं हैं प्रायः  learned from immigrant ancestors that came after the time of independence or learned through some form of education .
1990 's  pontiac ग्रैंड am  Sedan fender and quarter panel
On an automobile , a quarter panel ( or rear  wing as it is ज्ञात in अंग्रेजों अंग्रेज़ी ) is प्रायः माना the देह फलक जिससे goes between the पश्च द्वार और the ट्रंक और typically wraps around the  wheel well ; however , the similar front section Fender ( vehicle ) , between the door and the hood , is sometimes incorrectly referred to as a quarter panel .
The quarter panel is typically made of Sheet  मेटल , लकिन is sometimes बना of fiberglass or fiber-reinforced  plastic ; although , this varies with different makes and models .
A quarter panel is typically a  welded on घटक of the uni-body ढांचा or  Monocoque .
Replacement of a sheet metal quarter panel typically  requires it to be काटें बंद the गाडी और a बदलना भाग to be welded ( or  sometimes bonded ) to the Vehicle .
Due to this high amount of specialized labor , a quarter panel may often be repaired rather than replaced by hammering out the  क्षति , और a देह फिलर sometimes referred to as bondo to be लागू to finalize  the original surface .
shropshire ( or ; alternatively  Salop ; abbreviated , in print only , Shrops ) is a county in the West Midlands region of England .
It borders Wales to the  वेस्ट , चेशायर to the उत्तर , staffordshire  to the east , Worcestershire to the south-east and Herefordshire to the south .
A unitary authority ( Shropshire Council ) was created on 1 April 2009 , taking over from the previous county council and 5 district  councils , और कवर सबसे of the काउंटी  .
The borough of Telford and  wrekin  has been a separate unitary authority since 1998 but continues to be included in the ceremonial county .
The county 's population and economy is centred on  पाँच कस्बों : the काउंटी कस्बा of shrewsbury , जिससे is culturally और historically महत्वपूर्ण और is स्तिथ in the केन्द्र of  the county ; Telford , a new town in the east which was constructed around a number of older towns , most notably Wellington , Dawley and Madeley , which is today the most populous ; and Oswestry in the north-west , Bridgnorth just to the south of Telford , and Ludlow in the south .
The county has many further market towns , including  whitchurch in the उत्तर , न्यूपोर्ट बस to the north-east  of Telford , and Market Drayton in the north-east of the county .
The Ironbridge Gorge area is a UNESCO World Heritage Site ,  covering ironbridge  , Coalbrookdale and a part of Madeley .
There are , additionally , other notable historic industrial sites located around the county , such as  at shrewsbury , broseley , snailbeach और highley as खूब as  the Shropshire Union Canal .
The Shropshire Hills Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty covers about a  क्वार्टर of the काउंटी  , mainly in the south .
Shropshire is one of England 's most rural and sparsely populated counties , with the population density of  the shropshire परिषद क्षेत्रफल होने बस 91/km2 ( 337/sq  mi ) .
The Wrekin is one of the most famous natural landmarks in the county ,  हालांकि the उच्चतम पहाड़ियाँ हैं the clee पहाड़ियाँ , stiperstones  and the Long Mynd .
Wenlock Edge is another  significant भौगोलिक और geological  landmark .
In the low-lying northwest of the county  ( और अतिव्यापी the किनारा साथ वेल्स ) is  the Fenn 's , Whixall and Bettisfield Mosses National Nature Reserve , one of the most important and best preserved bogs in Britain .
The River Severn , Great Britain 's longest river , runs through the  काउंटी , exiting into वॉस्टरशायर via  the Severn Valley .
shropshire is landlocked , और  with an area of , is England 's largest inland county .
The  काउंटी पुष्प is the  round-leaved sundew .
For Eurostat purposes , the  काउंटी ( कम the एकात्मक ज़िला of telford और  Wrekin ) is a NUTS 3 region ( code UKG22 ) .
The two Shropshire unitary areas ( covering all of the ceremonial county ) ,  साथ साथ the अधिकारियों covering the ceremonial काउंटी of staffordshire  , comprise the `` Shropshire and Staffordshire '' NUTS 2 region .
the बिग बंग सिद्धान्त डाल at कॉमिक कॉन 2009 , इससे बाएँ  : Kunal Nayyar , Simon Helberg , Kaley Cuoco , Jim Parsons , and Johnny Galecki
The American sitcom The Big Bang  सिद्धान्त , निर्मित और कार्यपालिका उत्पादित by  Chuck Lorre and Bill Prady , premiered on CBS on September 24 , 2007 .
The show centers on five  वर्ण : roommates शेल्डन कूपर और लियोनार्ड hofstadter , दो caltech physicists ; पैनी , a वेट्रेस और aspiring  actress who lives across the hall ; and Leonard and Sheldon 's friends and co-workers aerospace engineer Howard Wolowitz , and astrophysicist Rajesh Koothrappali .
Over time , several supporting characters have been promoted to starring roles : Leslie Winkle ( season 1 recurring ; season 2 regular ; season 3 guest ) , a physicist colleague , and , at different times , a lover of both Leonard and Howard  ; bernadette rostenkowski-wolowitz ( ऋतु 3 पुनरावर्ती ; ऋतु 4-present नियमित ) , a microbiologist , हावर्ड 's fiancée और subsequent बीवी , और पूर्व part-time वेट्रेस alongside  Penny ; neuroscientist Amy Farrah Fowler ( season 3 guest ; season 4 recurring ; season 4-present regular ) , who joins the group after being matched to Sheldon on a dating website ; and comic book store-owner , Stuart Bloom ( seasons 2–5 recurring ; season 6-present regular ) , who replaces Howard as Raj 's best friend when Howard is in space .
The show also  सुविधाएँ numerous supporting वर्ण , प्रत्येक of जिसको plays  a prominent role in a small group of episodes .
The A-Team is an American action-adventure  टेलीविज़न श्रेणी , कार्यशील इससे 1983 to 1987 , परिचय a fictional समूह of ex– संयुक्त राज्य फौज खास  Forces personnel who work as soldiers of fortune , while on the run from the Army after being branded as war criminals for a `` crime they did n't commit `` .
A feature film based on the series was released by  20th सदी फॉक्स on जून 11 , 2010  .
A comic book series , A-Team  : shotgun विवाह , began  March 9 , 2010 .
डायना प्रिंस is a fictional  character appearing regularly in stories published by DC Comics .
She debuted in Sensation Comics # 1 ( January 1942 )  और serves as the civilian और रहस्य पहचान  of the superhero Wonder Woman .
The character was  निर्मित by चार्ल्स moulton और  Harry G. Peter .
Wat  phra kaew , बैंकॉक  , Thailand
There is no official state religion in the Thai constitution ,  जिससे guarantees धार्मिक स्वतंत्रता लिये सब थाई नागरिकों , हालांकि the किंग is  required by law to be Buddhist .
According to the last census  ( 2000 ) 94.6 % of thais हैं  Buddhists of the Theravada tradition .
Muslims are  the दूसरी largest धार्मिक समूह  in Thailand at 4.6 % .
Thailand 's southernmost  प्रांतों - pattani , yala , narathiwat और भाग of songkhla  Chumphon have dominant Muslim populations , consisting of both ethnic Thai and Malay .
the दक्षिणी  tip of Thailand is mostly ethnic Malays .
Christians , mainly Catholics ,  represent 0.7 % of the जनसांख्यिकी  .
A small but influential community of  सिखों in थाईलैंड और कुछ हिन्दुओं भी सजीव in the देश  's cities , and are heavily engaged in retail commerce .
There is also a small Jewish  जातियाँ in थाईलैंड , डेटिंग  back to the 17th century .
Since 2001 , Muslim activists , generally  वर्णित by the थाई सरकारी as आतंकवादी or separatists , have rallied विरूद्ध the सेंट्रल सरकारी  because of alleged corruption and ethnic bias on the part of officials .
Thailand 's Department of Religion , currently under the Ministry of Culture , is formally responsible for the registration of religious groups in Thailand URL_http which hold properties  through legally स्थापित मूलाधार  .
It has oversight , along with the Immigration Police , over the work permits of missionaries who are ``  प्रवासी धार्मिक मजदूर ''  of all religions .
A value  added कर ( vat ) is a रूप of खपत  tax .
From the perspective of the buyer , it is  a कर on the खरीदें  price .
From that of the seller , it is a tax only on the value added  to a उत्पाद , सामग्री , or सेवा , इससे an हिसाब पाइंट of दृश्य ,  by this stage of its manufacture or distribution .
The manufacturer remits to the government the difference between these two amounts , and retains the rest  लिये themselves to ऑफसेट the कर वे था previously  paid on the inputs .
The value added to a product by or with a business is the sale price  चार्ज to इसके ग्राहक , ऋण the लागत of सामग्री और अन्य taxable  inputs .
A VAT is like a sales tax in  कि ultimately तभी the समाप्त  consumer is taxed .
It differs from the sales tax in that , with the latter , the tax is collected  और remitted to the सरकारी तभी एकबार , at the पाइंट of खरीदें  by the end consumer .
With  the vat , संग्रहण , remittances to the सरकारी , और क्रेडिट लिये कर  already paid occur each time a business in the supply chain purchases products .
A  रेफरी कॉलिंग a high-sticking  penaltyHigh
-sticking is the name of two infractions in the sport of ice hockey that  may occur जब a खिलाड़ी intentionally or inadvertently plays साथ उसके or उसके स्टिक ऊपर the ऊँचाई  of the shoulders or above the cross bar of a hockey goal .
This  can परिणाम in a stoppage  of play or in a penalty .
in the नियम of the नेशनल  Hockey League , high-sticking is defined as a penalty in Rule 60 and as a non-penalty foul in Rule 80 .
A stoppage in play results  if a ऊँची स्टिक आता in सम्पर्क साथ the पक  and the team who touched it regains control of the puck .
However  , खेल प्रायः continues if a खिलाड़ी  touches the puck with a high stick and the opposing team gains control of the puck .
If the puck  goes into the opposing जाल बाद coming into  contact with a high stick , the goal is disallowed .
The level at which a stick is  माना too ऊँची लिये a लक्ष्य is the crossbar  of the net .
However , if a player knocks the  पक into उसके अपना जाल साथ a ऊँची  stick , the goal is allowed .
A penalty is assessed if  a खिलाड़ी हमलों another खिलाड़ी  with a high stick .
The  खिलाड़ी is दिए a नाबालिग दंड जबतक उसके  high stick caused an injury , in which case the referee has the option to assess a double-minor , major or match penalty .
It is the referee 's discretion which penalty to assess : the rule calls for a double minor for an accidental injury , or a match penalty for a deliberate attempt  to injure ( whether the विपक्ष खिलाड़ी थी दरअसल घायल )  .
Injury is usually  decided by the ऊँची स्टिक causing bleeding , लकिन the उपस्थिति of  blood does not automatically mean an extra penalty is awarded .
Some referees have been known to award an extra penalty without the presence of blood if the  रेफरी determines कि the चोट sustained थी sufficient  to warrant a double-minor penalty .
ठेठ आधुनिक मेमोरी कार्ड रीडर , संगत  with many common formats
A memory card reader is a device , typically having a USB interface , for accessing the data on a memory card such as a  compactflash ( cf ) , सुरक्षित डिजिटल ( sd ) or multimediacard  ( MMC ) .
Most card  पाठक भी प्रस्ताव लिखें काबिलियत  , and together with the card , this can function as a pen drive .
कुछ मुद्रक और निजी  computers have a built-in card reader .
A multi card reader is used for communication with more  than एक प्रकार of फ्लैश मेमोरी  card .
Multi card readers do not have built-in memory capacity , but  हैं समर्थ to accept अनेक प्रकार और शैलियाँ  of memory cards .
The number of compatible memory cards varies from  रीडर to रीडर और can शामिल अधिक than  20 different types .
The number of different memory cards that a multi card reader can accept is expressed as  x-in-1 , साथ x होने a फिगर of मेरिट indicating the क्रमांक of मेमोरी ताश स्वीकृत , ऐसे  as 35-in-1 .
There are three categories of card readers sorted by the type and quantity of the card slots : single card reader ( e.g . 1x SD-only  ) , मल्टी कार्ड रीडर ( e.g . 9-in-1 ) और श्रेणी कार्ड रीडर ( e.g . 4x sd तभी ) .
Some kinds of memory cards with their own USB functions  do नहीं need the कार्ड रीडर , ऐसे as the बुद्धिमान स्टिक मेमोरी कार्ड  , which can plug directly into a USB slot .
The USB device  क्लास प्रयुक्त is  0x08 .
Bullying is detrimental to  विद्यार्थी ' well-being और  development .
धमकाना is the उपयोग of फ़ोर्स  or coercion to abuse or intimidate others .
The  बर्ताव can be habitual और involve an असंतुलन  of social or physical power .
It can include verbal harassment or threat , physical assault or coercion and may be directed repeatedly towards particular victims ,  शायद on grounds of रेस , धर्म , लिंग , कामुकता ,  or ability .
If bullying is done by a  समूह , it is पुकारा mobbing  .
The victim of bullying is sometimes  referred to as a `` निशाना  '' .
Bullying can be defined  in अनेक अलग  ways .
the uk फिलहाल रै no विधिक परिभाषा of  bullying , while some U.S. states have laws against it .
Bullying consists of three basic  प्रकार of गाली – emotional , मौखिक  , and physical .
It typically involves subtle methods  of coercion ऐसे as  intimidation .
Bullying ranges from simple one-on-one bullying to more complex bullying in which the bully may have one or more `` lieutenants '' who may  seem to be willing to assist the प्राथमिक बुली in उसके or उसके धमकाना क्रियाएँ .
Bullying in school and the  कार्यस्थल is भी referred to  as peer abuse .
रॉबर्ट W. फुलर रै analyzed  bullying in the context of rankism .
A bullying culture can develop in  कोई कॉन्टेक्स्ट in जिससे इंसान beings  interact with each other .
This includes school ,  गिरिजाघर , परिवार , the कार्यस्थल ,  home , and neighborhoods .
Happy slapping in the Instituto Regional Federico  errázuriz , सांता क्रूज़ , चिली
Laura Bush and Rae Leigh Bradbury ( formerly missing ) on April 4 , 2007 , in Austin , Texas , after the 8-year-old introduced Mrs. Bush during announcement of the  भविष्य खोलने of the टेक्सास क्षेत्रीय दफ्तर of the नेशनल बीच लिये लापता और शोषित children  .
Rae  leigh थी the पहला चाइल्ड in the u.S. to be बरामद  as a result of an AMBER Alert when she was 8 weeks old in November 1998 .
An AMBER  चेतावनी or a चाइल्ड abduction आपात ( वही कोड  : CAE ) is a child abduction alert system originating in 1996 , now employed in 9 countries .
AMBER is  officially a backronym लिये अमेरिका 's लापता  : Broadcasting Emergency Response , named for Amber Hagerman , a 9-year-old abducted and murdered in Arlington , Texas in 1996 .
Alternate regional alert names were once used ; in Georgia , `` Levi 's Call '' ( named after Levi Frady ) ; in Hawaii , `` Maile Amber Alert '' ( after Maile Gilbert ) ;  और अरकंसास , `` मॉर्गन उपनाम एम्बर  Alert '' ( in memory of Morgan Chauntel Nick ) .
AMBER Alerts are distributed via commercial radio stations , Internet radio , satellite radio , television stations , and cable  tv by the आपात चेतावनी प्रणाली और noaa मौसम रेडियो ( जहाँ वे हैं termed `` चाइल्ड abduction  Emergency '' or `` Amber Alerts '' ) .
The alerts are also issued via e-mail , electronic traffic-condition signs , the  led billboards जिससे हैं स्तिथ बाहर of नए walgreens स्थितियाँ , साथ साथ the led/lcd लक्षण of बिलबोर्ड  companies such as Clear Channel Outdoor , CBS Outdoor and Lamar , or through wireless device SMS text messages .
AMBER Alert has also teamed up with Google  और फेसबुक to रिले सूचना regarding an एम्बर चेतावनी  to an ever growing demographic .
Those interested in subscribing  to प्राप्त एम्बर चेतावनियाँ in उनके क्षेत्रफल via sms संदेश can विज़िट  Wireless Amber Alerts , which are offered by law as free messages .
in कुछ राज्य , the प्रदर्शक  scrollboards in front of lottery terminals are also used .
The decision to  घोषित an एम्बर चेतावनी is बना by प्रत्येक पुलिस संगठन  ( in many cases , the state police or highway patrol ) which investigates each of the abductions .
Public  सूचना in an एम्बर चेतावनी प्रायः consists of the नाम और वर्णन  of the abductee , a description of the suspected abductor , and a description and license plate number of the abductor 's vehicle , if available .
Monica Samille Lewinsky (  born जुलाई 23 , 1973 ) is an अमरीकी स्त्री साथ जिसको संयुक्त राज्य अध्यक्ष विधेयक  Clinton admitted to having had an `` improper relationship '' while she worked at the White House in 1995 and 1996 .
The affair and its repercussions (  जिससे शामिल क्लिंटन 's महाभियोग  ) became known as the Lewinsky scandal .
House of Night is a series of vampire -themed fantasy novels by American  लेखक P. C. डाल और उसके बेटी kristin डाल  .
It follows the adventures of Zoey Redbird , a sixteen-year-old girl who has just  become a `` fledgling vampyre '' और is जरूरी to attend the हाउस of रात्रि बोर्डिंग स्कूल in तुलसा , ओक्लाहोमा  .
The series has been on the New York Times Best Seller list for 63 weeks and there are over seven million copies  in छपाई in उत्तर अमेरिका अलोन  .
The sixth novel , Tempted ,  जिससे गई on बिक्री on अक्तूबर 27 , 2009 साथ a पहला  printing of a million copies , entered the USA Today bestseller list that week at # 1 .
In January , 2010 ,  gezeichnet , a जर्मनी अनुवाद of चिह्नित  , reached the # 1 spot on the Der Spiegel bestseller list .
the श्रेणी रै so दूर बेची  more than ten million books in 39 countries .
Burned was released on April 27 ,  2010 , और जैसे इम्तिहान , it  entered the USA Today bestseller list that week at # 1 .
Awakened , released in January , 2011 ,  भी डाला the  list at # 1 .
The series , which is published by St  मार्टिन 's दबायें is नियोजित  to include twelve books .
In 2008 , plans for a film  अनुकूलन यहूद  also announced .
The tenth book in  the श्रेणी , छुपा , थी released  on October 16 , 2012 .
The second book in the  novellas ( जिससे दे पृष्ठभूमि on supporting वर्ण  ) , Lenobia 's Vow , was released January 31 , 2012 .
Book eleven is currently called Revealed , and the Casts have announced that two  अधिक novellas , neferet’s अभिशाप , नियोजित to be released फ़रवरी 19 , 2013 , और a प्रीक्वेल अनोखा परिचय  Kalona , are to be released to coincide with the eleventh and twelfth books .
In Greek mythology , the Trojan War was waged against the city of Troy by the Achaeans ( Greeks ) after Paris of  ट्रॉय took हेलेन इससे उसके husband menelaus किंग of स्पार्टा  .
The war is one of  the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण कार्यक्रम in यूनानी mythology और रै महरूम narrated  through many works of Greek literature , most notably through Homer 's Iliad and the Odyssey .
The Iliad relates a part of the last year  of the घेरा of ट्रॉय ; the ओडिसी describes odysseus  's journey home .
Other  भाग of the युद्ध हैं contained  in a cycle of epic poems , which have survived through fragments .
Episodes from the war provided material for Greek tragedy  और अन्य works of यूनानी साहित्य  , and for Roman poets including Virgil and Ovid .
The war originated from a quarrel between the goddesses Athena , Hera , and Aphrodite  , बाद eris , the देवी of संघर्ष और अनबन , दिया उन्हें a सुनहरी ठहराना , sometimes ज्ञात as the ठहराना  of Discord , marked `` for the fairest '' .
Zeus sent the goddesses to Paris , who judged that Aphrodite ,  as the `` fairest '' , चाहिए प्राप्त the  apple .
In exchange , Aphrodite  बना हेलेन , the सबसे खूबसूरत of सब  women and wife of Menelaus , fall in love with Paris , who took her to Troy .
Agamemnon , king of  mycenae और the bhai of हेलेन 's husband  Menelaus , led an expedition of Achaean troops to Troy and besieged the city for ten years because of Paris ' insult .
After the deaths of many heroes , including the Achaeans Achilles and Ajax , and the Trojans Hector  और पेरिस , the नगर गिरी to the ruse of the trojan  Horse .
The Achaeans slaughtered the Trojans ( except for some of the women and children whom they kept or sold as  स्लेव ) और desecrated the मंदिरों , यूँ कमाई the देवताओं  ' wrath .
Few of  the achaeans लौटे सकुशल  to their homes and many founded colonies in distant shores .
The Romans later traced their origin to Aeneas ,  एक of the ट्रोजन्स , जो  was said to have led the surviving Trojans to modern-day Italy .
The  प्राचीन यूनानियों विचार कि the trojan युद्ध थी a ऐतिहासिक  event that had taken place in the 13th or 12th century BC , and believed that Troy was located in modern-day Turkey near the Dardanelles .
By modern times , both the war  और the नगर यहूद widely believed to be non-historical  .
In 1868 , however , the German archaeologist Heinrich Schliemann met Frank Calvert , who convinced Schliemann that Troy was at Hissarlik and  schliemann took over calvert 's excavations on प्रॉपर्टी belonging to calvert ; इस अर्जी is अभी स्वीकृत by सबसे विद्वानों  .
whether वहीँ is कोई ऐतिहासिक  reality behind the Trojan War is an open question .
Many scholars believe that there is a  ऐतिहासिक कोर to the टेल , हालांकि इस may बस औसत कि the homeric कहानियां हैं  a fusion of various tales of sieges and expeditions by Mycenaean Greeks during the Bronze Age .
Those who believe that the stories of the Trojan War are derived from a  विशिष्ट ऐतिहासिक विरोध प्रायः तिथि it to the 12th or 11th सदियां bc , प्रायः preferring  the dates given by Eratosthenes , 1194–1184 BC , which roughly corresponds with archaeological evidence of a catastrophic burning of Troy VIIa .
Anarchists have  employed निश्चित प्रतीकों लिये उनके कारण , सहित सबसे prominently the  circle-A and the black flag , although anarchists have historically largely denied the importance of symbols to political movement .
Since the  पुनरुद्धार of अराजकतावाद around the प्रारंभ of the 21st-century संयुक्त साथ the  rise of the anti-globalization movement , anarchist cultural symbols are widely present .
The greater palatine canal ( or pterygopalatine canal ) is a passage in the skull that  transmits the वृहद palatine धमनी , रग , और तंत्रिका between the pterygopalatine  fossa and the oral cavity .
Surface temperature of Antarctica in winter and summer from  the यूरोपीय केन्द्र लिये medium-range मौसम  Forecasts
The climate of Antarctica is the  coldest on the पूरे of  Earth .
Antarctica has the lowest naturally occurring temperature ever recorded on the ground on  धरती : −89.2 °c ( −128.6 °f ) at वोस्तोक  Station .
It is also extremely dry ( technically a desert ) , averaging 166 mm ( 6.5  in ) of वर्षण प्रति  year .
Even so , on most parts of the continent the  हिम rarely melts और is आखिरकार  compressed to become the glacial ice that makes up the ice sheet .
Weather fronts rarely penetrate far  into the महाद्वीप  .
Most of Antarctica has an ice cap  जलवायु ( köppen ef ) साथ बहुत ठंडा , generally अत्यधिक शुष्क मौसम throughout  the year and no month averaging above 0 °C ( 32 °F ) .
कुछ फ्रिंज तटीय क्षेत्रों have a टुण्ड्रा जलवायु  ( Köppen ET ) with a short summer averaging above freezing , and much higher precipitation .
Current head  कोच माइक tomlin  , during the 2007 season
The  पिट्सबर्ग स्टीलर्स मताधिकार रै था 16 सिर  coaches throughout its history .
Founded as the Pittsburgh Pirates in , the name was changed to the Steelers prior to the season  to celebrate the नगर 's विरासत of producing  steel .
Joe  बच परोसा दो पृथक  terms as head coach and Walt Kiesling served three separate terms .
During the and seasons , due to the amount of players who fought in World  युद्ध ii , the स्टीलर्स संयुक्त उनके टोली साथ फिलाडेल्फिया  and Chicago , respectively .
During these seasons , Steelers ' coach Walt Kiesling shared coaching duties with Greasy  neale और फिल हैंडलर , जो have नहीं महरूम शामिल  within this list .
struggling लिये much of the मताधिकार 's जल्दी सालो , the टोली 's  first season with more wins than losses was coached by Jock Sutherland in .
In , under Sutherland , the Steelers  निभाई उनके पहला playoff खेल विरूद्ध  the Philadelphia Eagles .
Ten of the 16 head coaches spent their entire  पेशेवर कोचिंग करियर साथ the मताधिकार , सहित जॉन mcnally ,  Walt Kiesling and Chuck Noll , who have also been voted into the Pro Football Hall of Fame .
One of only four  मेन to कोच the वही  team for 23 years , Chuck Noll retired in .
Noll is also the only coach in  नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग इतिहास  to win four Super Bowls .
विधेयक cowher , noll 's बदलना , coached  the Steelers to their fifth Super Bowl victory , in 2005 .
The Steelers sixth Super Bowl win came in Super Bowl XLIII ,  जबकि सिर coached by माइक tomlin ,  the team 's current head coach .
In criminal law ,  धोखाधड़ी is जानबूझकर deception बना लिये निजी  gain or to damage another individual ; the related adjective is fraudulent , and verb is defraud .
Fraud is a crime  और a सिविल विधि उल्लंघन , हालांकि the विशिष्ट  criminal law definition varies by legal jurisdiction .
Defrauding  लोगों or entities of धन or  valuables is a common purpose of fraud .
A hoax also involves deception , but  बगैर the इरादे of लाभ or of damaging  or depriving the victim .
Fraud is a defense in a civil action for breach of contract  or विशिष्ट प्रदर्शन of a अनुबंध  .
Fraud is a basis  लिये निष्पक्ष क्षेत्राधिकार  .
Passover , or Pesach ( from : in Hebrew , Yiddish ) , Tiberian : , Modern Hebrew :  /ˈpesaχ/ pesah , pesakh , यहूदी : peysekh , paysakh  , Paysokh ) is an important Biblically -derived Jewish festival .
Historically , together with Shavuot ( `` Pentecost '' ) and Sukkot ( `` Tabernacles '' ) , Passover is one of the three pilgrimage festivals ( Shalosh Regalim ) during which the entire  जनसांख्यिकी of the किंगडम of यहूदा बना a यात्राएं to the टेम्पल in जेरूसलम  .
Samaritans still make this pilgrimage to Mount Gerizim , but  तभी मेन participate in पब्लिक  worship .
Passover  commences on the 15th of the यहूदी माह of nisan  and lasts for either seven days ( in Israel ) or eight days ( in the diaspora ) .
In Judaism , a  दिन commences at संध्या और lasts  until the following dusk , thus the first day of Passover only begins after dusk of the 14th of Nisan and ends at dusk of the 15th day of the month of Nisan .
The rituals unique to the  passover जश्न commence साथ  the Passover Seder when the 15th of Nisan has begun .
In the  उत्तरी गोलार्ध passover takes प्लेस in  spring as the Torah prescribes it : `` in the month of [ the ] spring '' ( בחדש האביב ) .
It is one of the most widely  observed यहूदी छुट्टियाँ  .
The Jewish people celebrate Passover as a commemoration  of उनके मुक्ति over 3,300 सालो पहले by परमेश्वर इससे गुलामी in प्राचीन मिश्र कि थी  ruled by the Pharaohs , and their birth as a nation under the leadership of Moses .
It commemorates the story of the Exodus as described in the Hebrew Bible  विशेषकर in the किताब of exodus , in जिससे the israelites यहूद  freed from slavery in Egypt .
In the narrative of the Exodus , the Bible tells that God helped the Children of Israel escape from their slavery in Egypt by inflicting ten plagues upon the ancient Egyptians before the Pharaoh would release his Israelite slaves ; the tenth  और worst of the plagues थी the मौत of the  Egyptian first-born .
The Israelites were  instructed to चिह्नित the doorposts of उनके घरों साथ  the blood of a slaughtered spring lamb and , upon seeing this , the spirit of the Lord knew to pass over the first-born in these homes , hence the name of the holiday .
There is some debate over where the term is  दरअसल निकला इससे  .
When the Pharaoh freed the  israelites , it is कहा कि वे बाएँ  in such a hurry that they could not wait for bread dough to rise ( leaven ) .
In commemoration , for the  अवधि of passover no leavened ब्रैड is खाया , लिये  which reason it is called `` The Festival of the Unleavened Bread '' .
Thus Matzo ( flat unleavened bread )  is खाया दौरान passover  and it is a symbol of the holiday .
Halley 's Comet or Comet Halley ( or ) , officially designated 1P/Halley , is the  best-known of the short-period धूमकेतुओं और is दृश्य इससे धरती प्रत्येक 75–76 सालो  .
Halley is the only short-period  धूमकेतु कि is clearly दृश्य to the नग्न नजर इससे  Earth , and thus the only naked-eye comet that might appear twice in a human lifetime .
Other naked-eye comets may be brighter and more  spectacular , लकिन होगा appear तभी एकबार in  thousands of years .
Halley 's  रिटर्न to the भीतरी सौर  System have been observed and recorded by astronomers since at least 240 BCE .
Clear records of the comet 's appearances were made by  चाइनीज , babylonian , और मध्यकालीन यूरोपीय  chroniclers , but were not recognized as reappearances of the same object at the time .
The comet 's  periodicity थी पहला संकल्पित in 1705 by अंग्रेज़ी  astronomer Edmond Halley , after whom it is now named .
Halley 's Comet last  appeared in the भीतरी सौर प्रणाली in 1986 और  will next appear in mid-2061 .
During  इसके 1986 apparition , हैली became the पहला धूमकेतु to be observed  in detail by spacecraft , providing the first observational data on the structure of a comet nucleus and the mechanism of coma and tail formation .
These observations supported a number of longstanding hypotheses about comet construction , particularly Fred Whipple 's `` dirty snowball '' model ,  जिससे correctly पूर्वानुमानित कि हैली होता be रचित of a मिश्रण of volatile ices – ऐसे as जल , कार्बन डाइऑक्साइड  and ammonia – and dust .
The missions also provided data which substantially reformed  और reconfigured ये विचार ; लिये उदाहरण  it is now understood that Halley 's surface is largely composed of dusty , non-volatile materials , and that only a small portion of it is icy .
anti-communism is विपक्ष  to communism .
Organized anti-communism developed in reaction to the rise of communism , especially after the 1917  अक्तूबर क्रान्ति in रूस और reaching वैश्विक आयाम  during the Cold War .
Most anti-communists reject the concept of  ऐतिहासिक भौतिकवाद ,  which is a central idea in Marxism .
Anti-communists reject  the मार्क्सवादी विश्वास कि पूंजीवाद होगा be followed  by socialism and communism , just as feudalism was followed by capitalism .
Anti-communists question the validity of the Marxist claim that the socialist state will ``  wither दूर '' जब it becomes अनावश्यक  in a true communist society .
Anti-communists argue that the repression in the early years of Bolshevik rule , while not as extreme as that during Joseph Stalin 's rule , was still severe by reasonable standards , citing examples such as  फेलिक्स dzerzhinsky 's रहस्य पुलिस , जिससे eliminated numerous राजनैतिक प्रतिद्वंद्वियों by extrajudicial executions , और the क्रूर  crushing of the Kronstadt rebellion and Tambov rebellion .
Some anti-communists refer to both Communism and fascism as totalitarianism ,  देखकर समानता between the क्रियाएँ of कम्युनिस्ट और फासिस्ट सरकारें  .
इतिहासकार रॉबर्ट conquest रै argued कि साम्यवादी थी  responsible for tens of millions of deaths during the 20th century .
प्रतिद्वंद्वियों argue कि कम्युनिस्ट पार्टियों कि have आइये to  power have tended to be rigidly intolerant of political opposition .
These opponents claim that most Communist countries have shown no signs of  advancing इससे मार्क्स 's समाजवादी स्टेज of अर्थव्यवस्था to an  ideal communist stage .
Rather ,  कम्युनिस्ट सरकारें have महरूम अभियुक्त of बनाना a नई सत्ताधारी क्लास ( a nomenklatura  ) , with powers and privileges greater than those previously enjoyed by the upper classes in the non- communist regimes .
Gil Heron ( 9 April 1922 – 27  नवम्बर 2008 ) थी a jamaican  professional footballer .
He was the first black player to play for Scottish club  सेल्टिक , और थी the पिता of कवि  and musician Gil Scott-Heron .
He died in  डेट्रॉयट of a दिल  attack on 27 November 2008 .
The soybean ( US ) or soya bean  ( uk ) ( glycine अधिकतम ) is a प्रजाति of legume देशी to  East Asia , widely grown for its edible bean which has numerous uses .
The plant is classed  as an oilseed बल्कि than a पल्स by the un खाना और agricultural  Organization ( FAO ) .
Fat-free  ( defatted ) सोयाबीन भोजन is a significant और सस्ती सोर्स  of protein for animal feeds and many prepackaged meals ; soy vegetable oil is another product of processing the soybean crop .
For example , soybean products such as textured vegetable protein ( TVP ) are ingredients in  अनेक मांस और दुग्ध analogues  .
Soybeans  उपज significantly अधिक  protein per acre than most other uses of land .
परंपरागत nonfermented खाना  uses of soybeans include soy milk , and from the latter tofu and tofu skin .
Fermented foods include soy  सॉस , fermented सेम paste , natto  , and tempeh , among others .
The oil is used in  अनेक औद्योगिक अनुप्रयोग  .
the प्रमुख निर्माता  of soy are the United States ( 35 % ) , Brazil ( 27 % ) , Argentina ( 19 % ) , China ( 6 % ) and India ( 4 % ) .
The beans  contain significant amounts of phytic  acid , alpha-linolenic acid , and isoflavones .
Harrison Ford ( born July 13 , 1942  ) is an अमरीकी  film actor and producer .
He is famous for his performances as Han Solo in the original Star Wars trilogy and  the शीर्षक अक्षर of the इंडियाना जोन्स  film series .
Ford is also known for his roles as Rick Deckard in Blade Runner  , जॉन किताब in गवाह और जोकर रयान in patriot खेल और साफ  and Present Danger .
His career has spanned six decades and  शामिल भूमिकाएँ in अनेक हॉलीवुड blockbusters , सहित presumed निर्दोष ,  The Fugitive , Air Force One , and What Lies Beneath .
At one  पाइंट , चार of the शीर्ष छह box-office हिट्स  of all time included one of his roles .
Five of his films have been inducted  into the नेशनल फिल्मी रजिस्ट्री  .
In 1997 , Ford was  क्रमित no . 1 in साम्राज्य `` the  Top 100 Movie Stars of All Time '' list .
, the United States domestic box office grosses of Ford 's films total over US $ 3.5 billion ,  साथ विश्वव्यापी grosses surpassing $ 6 अरब , बनाना घाट the तीसरा  highest grossing U.S. domestic box-office star .
Ford  is the husband of अभिनेत्री  Calista Flockhart .
A  ट्यूब of chapstick
ChapStick is a brand name for lip balm manufactured by  फाइजर उपभोक्ता healthcare और प्रयुक्त  in many countries worldwide .
It  is intended to सहायता दावत और  prevent chapped lips ; hence the name .
Many  किस्में भी शामिल सनस्क्रीन  in order to prevent sunburn .
Due to  इसके लोकप्रियता  , the term has become a genericized trademark .
It popularly refers to any lip  बाम contained in a lipstick-style ट्यूब और लागू in the वही  manner as lipstick .
However , the term is still a registered  ट्रेडमार्क , साथ अधिकारों exclusively स्वामित्व  by Pfizer .
In Sweden and in the United Kingdom , the product 's main competitor is Lypsyl , made by Novartis Consumer Health ,  जिससे is वितरित in समान पैकेजिंग to chapstick  .
George Berkeley ( ; 12 March 168514 January 1753 ) , also known as Bishop Berkeley ( Bishop of Cloyne  ) , थी an anglo-irish पारस जिनकी प्राथमिक उपलब्धि थी the उन्नति of a सिद्धान्त he पुकारा `` immaterialism '' ( बाद referred  to as `` subjective idealism `` by others ) .
This theory denies the existence of material substance and instead contends that familiar objects like tables and chairs are only ideas in the minds of  perceivers , और as a परिणाम can नहीं  exist without being perceived .
Thus , as  बर्कली famously put it , लिये शारीरिक वस्तुएँ `` esse  est percipi '' ( `` to be is to be perceived `` ) .
Berkeley is also known for his critique of abstraction , an important premise  in उसके तर्क लिये immaterialism  .
In 1709 , Berkeley published his  पहला प्रमुख कार्य , , in जिससे he discussed the  limitations of human vision and advanced the theory that the proper objects of sight are not material objects , but light and colour .
This foreshadowed his chief philosophical work A Treatise Concerning the  सिद्धान्त of इंसान ज्ञान in 1710 जिससे , बाद इसके ग़रीब रिसेप्शन , he rewrote in संवाद  form and published under the title Three Dialogues between Hylas and Philonous in 1713 .
In this book , Berkeley 's views were represented by Philonous ( Greek : 'lover of mind ' ) , while Hylas ( Greek  : 'मैटr ' ) embodies the आयरिश thinker’s प्रतिद्वंद्वियों , in particular जॉन  Locke .
Berkeley argued against Sir Isaac Newton 's doctrine of absolute space , time and  गति in de मोटू ( on  Motion ) , published 1721 .
His arguments were  a precursor to the दृश्य  of Mach and Einstein .
In 1732 , he published Alciphron , a Christian apologetic against the free-thinkers  , और in 1734 , he प्रकाशित the विश्लेषक , an empiricist  critique of the foundations of infinitesimal calculus , which was influential in the development of mathematics .
His last major philosophical work , Siris ( 1744  ) , begins by वकालत the औषधीय उपयोग of तारकोल जल  , and then continues to discuss a wide range of topics including science , philosophy , and theology .
Interest in Berkeley 's work increased after World  युद्ध ii , क्युकी he tackled अनेक of the मुद्दे of सर्वोपरि  interest to philosophy in the 20th century such as the problems of perception , the difference between primary and secondary qualities , and the importance of language .
Qingdao ( ) , historically known as Tsingtao , is a major city in eastern Shandong  प्रांत , पूर्वी चीन , साथ a जनसांख्यिकी  of over 8.715 million ( 2010 census ) .
Its built up area , made of 6 urban  जिले और 4 county-level शहरों ,  is home to about 4,896,000 inhabitants in 2010 .
It borders Yantai to the northeast , Weifang to the  वेस्ट और rizhao to the दक्षिणपश्चिम  .
Qīng ( ) in Chinese  अर्थात् `` ग्रीन '' or `` रसीले ''  , while dǎo ( ) means `` island '' .
Qingdao is  administered at the sub-provincial  level .
Lying across the Shandong Peninsula while looking out to the Yellow  समुद्र , चिंगदाओ is a प्रमुख seaport , नवल आधार  , and industrial centre .
It is also the site of  the tsingtao  Brewery .
The world 's longest  समुद्र सेतु , the चिंगदाओ haiwan सेतु , कड़ी the प्रमुख शहरी क्षेत्रफल of  Qingdao with Huangdao district , straddling the Jiaozhou Bay sea areas .
Qingdao is named  चीन 's सबसे livable नगर  .
Mimivirus is a viral genus containing a single identified species named Acanthamoeba polyphaga mimivirus ( APMV ) , or is a group of phylogenetically related large viruses ( designated  प्रायः mimin ) .
In  colloquial वाक , apmv is अधिक commonly  referred to as just `` mimivirus '' .
Until October 2011 , when a larger virus Megavirus  chilensis  was described , it had the largest capsid diameter of all known viruses .
mimivirus रै a विशाल और जटिल  genome compared with most other viruses .
Mimivirus , short for ``  mimicking microbe '' , is so  called to reflect its large size and apparent Gram-staining properties .
The Mexican War of Independence ( 1810–1821 ) was an armed conflict between the  लोगों of मैक्सिको और the स्पेनी औपनिवेशिक अधिकारियों जिससे प्रारंभ on सितंबर  16 , 1810 .
The movement , which became known as the Mexican War of Independence , was led by Mexican-born Spaniards , Mestizos and Amerindians  जो sought स्वतंत्रता  from Spain .
It  प्रारंभ as an आदर्शवादी peasants  ' rebellion against their colonial masters , but ended as an unlikely alliance between Mexican ex-royalists and Mexican guerrilla insurgents .
crohn 's बीमारी , भी ज्ञात as crohn सिंड्रोम और क्षेत्रीय enteritis , is a प्रकार of जलन bowel बीमारी  that may affect any part of the gastrointestinal tract from mouth to anus , causing a wide variety of symptoms .
It primarily causes abdominal pain , diarrhea ( which may be bloody if inflammation is at its worst ) , vomiting ( can be continuous ) , or weight loss , but may also cause complications outside the gastrointestinal tract  ऐसे as स्किन rashes , गठिया , सूजन of the नजर , थकान , और  lack of concentration .
Crohn 's disease is caused by  interactions between पर्यावरणीय , immunological  and bacterial factors in genetically susceptible individuals .
This results in a chronic inflammatory disorder  , in जिससे the देह 's प्रतिरक्षा प्रणाली हमले  the gastrointestinal tract possibly directed at microbial antigens .
Crohn 's disease has wrongly been described as an  असंक्राम्य बीमारी in the पास्ट ; हाल जांचकर्ताओं  have described it as an immune deficiency state .
There is a genetic association with Crohn 's disease , primarily with variations  of the nod2 जीन और इसके प्रोटीन , जिससे  senses bacterial cell walls .
Siblings of affected individuals are  at उच्चतर रिस्क .
Males and females  हैं बराबर प्रभावित  .
Smokers are two times more likely to develop  crohn 's बीमारी than nonsmokers  .
Crohn 's disease affects between 400,000  और 600,000 लोगों in  North America .
Prevalence  estimates लिये उत्तरी यूरोपीय have ranged इससे  27–48 per 100,000 .
Crohn 's disease tends to  उपस्थित initially in the किशोर  and twenties , with another peak incidence in the fifties to seventies , although the disease can occur at any age .
There is no known pharmaceutical or  सर्जिकल इलाज़ लिये crohn 's बीमारी  .
Treatment options are restricted to  controlling लक्षण  , maintaining remission , and preventing relapse .
The disease was named after gastroenterologist  burrill बर्नार्ड crohn , जो , in 1932 , साथ साथ दो अन्य सहयोगियों at माउंट sinai हॉस्पिटल  in New York , described a series of patients with inflammation of the terminal ileum , the area most commonly affected by the illness .
This is an incomplete list of the tallest  इमारतें और structures by  country .
The list directly  शामिल the tallest इमारतें और structures  for each country , and where appropriate , it also points to more detailed country-specific lists .
Rough and  तैयार is a census-designated प्लेस in नेवाडा  County , California , United States .
It is located west of  ग्रास घाटी , कैलिफ़ोर्निया , लगभग  62 miles ( 100 km ) from Sacramento .
The population was 963  at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी  .
YouTube is a video-sharing website , created by  तीन पूर्व paypal कर्मचारी in फ़रवरी 2005  , on which users can upload , view and share videos .
The company is based in San Bruno , California , and uses Adobe Flash Video and HTML5 technology to display a wide variety of user-generated video content , including  फिल्म क्लिप्स , tv क्लिप्स , और म्यूज़िक वीडियो , as खूब as amateur सामग्री ऐसे as वीडियो blogging , छोटी असली वीडियो , और शैक्षणिक वीडियो  .
Most of the content on YouTube has been uploaded by individuals , although media  corporations सहित सीबीएस , the बीबीसी , vevo , hulu , और अन्य संगठन प्रस्ताव कुछ  of their material via the site , as part of the YouTube partnership program .
Unregistered  उपयोक्ता can देखें वीडियो , जबकि पंजीकृत उपयोक्ता can अपलोड an  unlimited number of videos .
Videos considered to contain potentially  अप्रिय सामग्री हैं उपलब्धियाँ तभी to पंजीकृत  users at least 18 years old .
In November 2006 , YouTube , LLC was bought by Google for US $ 1.65  अरब , और operates as a subsidiary of google  .
Sister Act is a musical  लिखा by cheri steinkellner और विधेयक steinkellner साथ अतिरिक्त  book material by Douglas Carter Beane , with lyrics by Glenn Slater and music by Alan Menken .
It  is आधारित on the hit  1992 film comedy of the same name .
The 2009  वेस्ट समाप्त उत्पादन  was produced by Stage Entertainment , Whoopi Goldberg , and Michael Reno for Sis Acts LLC .
Goldberg is  भी a निर्माता of the  2011 Broadway adaptation .
Microsoft DirectX is a collection of application programming interfaces ( APIs  ) लिये हैंडलिंग कार्य सम्बन्धित to मल्टीमीडिया , विशेषकर  game programming and video , on Microsoft platforms .
Originally , the names of  ये api सब began साथ सीधा , ऐसे  as Direct3D , DirectDraw , DirectMusic , DirectPlay , DirectSound , and so forth .
The name  डाइरेक्टएक्स थी coined as आशुलिपि पद लिये सब of ये api ( the  X standing in for the particular API names ) and soon became the name of the collection .
When Microsoft  बाद नियत आउट to develop a गेमिंग कंसोल , the x थी प्रयुक्त as the  basis of the name Xbox to indicate that the console was based on DirectX technology .
The X initial has been carried forward in the naming of APIs designed for the Xbox such as XInput and the Cross-platform Audio  सृष्टि औजार ( xact ) , जबकि the डाइरेक्टएक्स पैटर्न रै महरूम जारी  for Windows APIs such as Direct2D and DirectWrite .
Direct3D ( the 3D graphics API within DirectX ) is widely  प्रयुक्त in the विकास of वीडियो खेल लिये microsoft खिड़कियाँ , microsoft एक्सबॉक्स  , Microsoft Xbox 360 and some Sega Dreamcast games .
Direct3D is also used by other software applications for  कल्पना और ग्राफिक्स कार्य ऐसे as cad/cam  engineering .
As Direct3D is the most widely publicized component of  डाइरेक्टएक्स , it is आम to देखिए the names `` डाइरेक्टएक्स '' और `` direct3d  '' used interchangeably .
The DirectX software development kit ( SDK ) consists of runtime  पुस्तकालयों in redistributable शब्दकोष रूप , साथ साथ accompanying दस्तावेज़ीकरण  and headers for use in coding .
Originally , the runtimes  यहूद तभी संस्थापित by खेल  or explicitly by the user .
Windows 95 did not  लॉन्च साथ डाइरेक्टएक्स , लकिन डाइरेक्टएक्स थी  included with Windows 95 OEM Service Release 2 .
Windows 98 and Windows NT 4.0 both shipped with DirectX  , as रै प्रत्येक संस्करण of खिड़कियाँ released  since .
The SDK is  उपलब्धियाँ as a फ़्री  download .
While the runtimes are proprietary , closed-source software  , सोर्स कोड is provided लिये सबसे of the sdk  samples .
Starting with the release of Windows 8 Developer  पूर्वावलोकन , डाइरेक्टएक्स sdk रै महरूम एकीकृत into खिड़कियाँ  SDK .
Direct3D 9Ex , Direct3D 10 , and Direct3D 11 are only available for Windows Vista and newer because each of these new versions was  निर्मित to निर्भर upon the नई खिड़कियाँ प्रदर्शक ड्राइवर मॉडल कि थी  introduced for Windows Vista .
The new Vista/WDDM graphics architecture includes a new video memory manager  supporting आभासीकरण of ग्राफिक्स हार्डवेयर लिये विभिन्न अनुप्रयोग  and services like the Desktop Window Manager .
quetzaltenango , भी commonly ज्ञात by इसके स्वदेशी  name , Xelajú , or more commonly , Xela , is the second largest city of Guatemala .
It is both  the पूंजी of quetzaltenango विभाग  and the municipal seat of Quetzaltenango municipality .
It has  an अनुमानित जनसांख्यिकी  of 224,703 .
The population is about 61 %  स्वदेशी or amerindian , 34 % मेस्टिज़ो or  ladino and 5 % European .
Quetzaltenango is located in a mountain valley  at an उन्नयन of 2,330 मीटर (  7,655 ft ) above sea level at its lowest part .
It may reach above 2,400 meters  भीतर the नगर  .
The  नगरपालिका of quetzaltenango consists  of an area of .
municipalities abutting the नगरपालिका of quetzaltenango शामिल : salcajá , cantel , almolonga , zunil ,  El Palmar , Concepción Chiquirichapa , San Mateo , La Esperanza , Olintepeque , and San Andrés Xecul .
All these municipalities are part of the Department of Quetzaltenango , except San Andrés Xecul which is a  भाग of the विभाग of totonicapán  .
The Epic of Gilgamesh , an epic poem from Mesopotamia , is  amongst the earliest  surviving works of literature .
The literary history of Gilgamesh begins with five independent Sumerian poems about  'bilgamesh ' ( sumerian लिये gilgamesh ) , किंग of uruk  .
Four of these were  प्रयुक्त as सोर्स सामग्री  for a combined epic in Akkadian .
This first combined epic , known as the `` Old Babylonian  '' संस्करण , तिथियाँ to the 18th  century BC and is titled after its incipit , Shūtur eli sharrī ( `` Surpassing All Other Kings '' ) .
Only a few fragments of it  have बच  .
The later `` Standard Babylonian '' version dates from the 13th to the  10th सदियां bc और bears the incipit शा naqba īmuru  ( `` He who Saw the Deep '' ) .
Fragments of approximately two thirds of this longer , twelve-tablet  संस्करण have महरूम बरामद .
Some of  the बेहतरीन नक़ल यहूद खोजा  in the library ruins of the 7th-century BC Assyrian king Ashurbanipal .
The story centers on a friendship between  gilgamesh और enkidu .
Enkidu is a wild man created by the gods as Gilgamesh 's equal to distract him from oppressing  the लोगों of  Uruk .
Together , they journey to the Cedar Mountain  to शिकस्त humbaba , इसके monstrous  guardian .
Later they kill the Bull of Heaven , which the goddess  इश्तार भेजना to सजा gilgamesh लिये spurning उसके अग्रिम  .
As a  दंड लिये ये क्रियाएँ , the देवताओं  sentence Enkidu to death .
The second half of the epic focuses on  gilgamesh 's तकलीफ at enkidu 's मौत  , and his quest for immortality .
In order to learn the secret  of अनन्त जीवन , gilgamesh  undertakes a long and perilous journey .
He learns  कि `` the जीवन  that you are seeking you will never find .
When the gods created man they allotted to him death , but life  वे retained in उनके अपना keeping  . ''
This quote was originally attributed to Siduri in the Old Babylonian version of the epic , and then  attributed to the अमर बाढ़ नायिका utnapishtim  in the Akkadian version of the epic .
Nevertheless , Gilgamesh 's fame lived on after  उसके मौत , क्युकी of उसके ग्रेट भवन प्रोजेक्ट , और उसके  account of what Utnapishtim told him happened during the flood .
The story has been translated into many different  भाषाएं , और gilgamesh रै चूंकि become adapted  in works of popular fiction .
There are numerous debates over who  निर्मित the पहला वीडियो खेल , साथ the जवाब  depending largely on how video games are defined .
The evolution of  वीडियो खेल represents a उलझे वेब of अनेक अलग उद्योग  , including scientific , computer , arcade , and consumer electronics .
the `` वीडियो '' in `` वीडियो खेल `` traditionally  refers to a raster display device .
With the popular catch phrase use of the term `` video game  '' , the पद अभी implies सब प्रदर्शक प्रकार  , formats , and platforms .
Historians have also  sought to बायपास the समस्या by बजाय  using the more specific `` digital games '' descriptive .
This term leaves out  the पहले  analog-based computer games .
This is a list of best-selling video game franchises that have sold or  shipped at तनिक 5 लाख नक़ल  .
Unless otherwise stated ,  संख्याएँ indicate विश्वव्यापी इकाई  sold , ordered alphabetically whenever two or more list the same amount .
The exception are the ones specifying  शिपमेंट , जिससे have निम्नतर पूर्वता  than others listing sales .
मताधिकार बिक्री शामिल विस्तार पैक  even though they are not considered full video games .
For best-selling individual video  खेल , देखिए  List of best-selling video games .
the बिक्री आंकड़े दिए नीचे do  not include arcade game sales , which can be found at List of highest-grossing arcade video games .
– This color indicates a  sub-series of a larger वीडियो खेल  franchise .
This does not  necessarily लागू लिये श्रेणी कि हैं नहीं वीडियो game-based  .
Dorothy  ऐन विलिस रिचर्ड्स ( सितंबर 1 , 1933 – सितंबर 13 , 2006  ) was an American politician and the 45th Governor of Texas .
She first came to national attention as the state treasurer of Texas ,  जब वो वितरित the keynote पता  at the 1988 Democratic National Convention .
Richards served as  the 45th राज्यपाल of टेक्सास इससे 1991  to 1995 and was defeated for re-election in 1994 by George W. Bush .
Ann Richards was the second  मादा राज्यपाल  of Texas .
Data Execution Prevention ( DEP  ) is a सुरक्षा विशेषता शामिल in आधुनिक  operating systems .
It is known to be  उपलब्धियाँ in लिनक्स , मैक os x , आईओएस , microsoft खिड़कियाँ और एंड्रॉइड ऑपरेटिंग प्रणालियों और is intended to prevent  an application or service from executing code from a non-executable memory region .
इस helps prevent निश्चित कारनामे  that store code via a buffer overflow , for example .
DEP runs in two  मोड्स : hardware-enforced dep लिये cpu कि can चिह्नित मेमोरी पृष्ठों as nonexecutable  , and software-enforced DEP with limited protection for CPUs that do not have hardware support .
Software-enforced DEP does not protect against execution of code in data pages  , लकिन बजाय counters seh मिटाकर  , another type of attack .
DEP was introduced on Linux in 2004 ( kernel 2.6.8 ) , on Windows in 2004 with Windows XP Service Pack 2 , while Apple  introduced dep जब वे स्थानांतरित to x86 in  2006 .
उदाहरण उदाहरण  of two common futanari variants
, is the  जापानी शब्द लिये hermaphroditism , जिससे is भी प्रयुक्त  in a broader sense for androgyny .
Beyond Japan the term is used to describe a commonly pornographic genre of computer games ,  कॉमिक्स और एनिमेशन , जिससे शामिल वर्ण कि दिखाएँ दोनो  primary sexual characteristics .
But in today 's language it refers almost exclusively for characters who have  an overall feminine रूप .
In that case the term is also often abbreviated as futa ( s ) , which is occasionally also  प्रयुक्त as पद लिये the works itself  .
Early CAPTCHAs such as these ,  उत्पन्न by the ez-gimpy कार्यक्रम  , were used on Yahoo !
A  आधुनिक captcha , बल्कि than attempting to बनाएँ a distorted पृष्ठभूमि और ऊँची स्तर of  warping on the text , might focus on making segmentation difficult by adding an angled line .
Another way to make segmentation difficult is to crowd symbols  साथ , as in याहू ! 's वर्तमान captcha स्वरूप  .
Some CAPTCHAs try to utilize the ability of  लोगों to देखिए three-dimensional  objects .
On this image , symbols are drawn with lines of  अलग मोटाई to मेक an  effect of extrusion .
A CAPTCHA ( ) is a type of challenge-response test used in computing as an attempt  to ensure कि the जवाब is उत्पन्न by a इंसान  being .
The process usually involves a computer asking a user to  पूरा a सरल परीक्षण जिससे the कंप्यूटर is समर्थ to  grade .
These tests are designed to be easy for a computer to generate  लकिन मुश्किल लिये a कंप्यूटर to solve , लकिन again आसान  for a human .
If a  सही समाधान is प्राप्त , it can be  presumed to have been entered by a human .
A common type of CAPTCHA requires the user to type letters and/or digits from a  distorted चित्र कि appears on the स्क्रीन  .
Such tests are commonly used to prevent unwanted internet bots from accessing websites , since a  सामान्य इंसान can easily पढ़ा a captcha  , while the bot can not process the image letters and therefore , can not answer properly , or at all .
Although most CAPTCHAs are letter pictures randomly generated , many of them have become difficult even for a human to read , so picture CAPTCHAs were  निर्मित in जिससे a इंसान is दिखाया a सरल परीक्षण to दिखाएँ a चित्र of a निश्चित एनिमल ( दिए few एनिमल तस्वीरें ) , जिससे is सरल लिये a इंसान होने to प्रक्रम  , and therefore easy to pick , while a bot can not process and solve the question because although it can analyze the picture , it can not easily guess the animal .
The term `` CAPTCHA '' was coined in 2000 by Luis von Ahn , Manuel Blum , Nicholas J. Hopper ,  और जॉन langford ( सब of कार्नेगी mellon विश्वविद्यालयों )  .
It is an acronym based on the  शब्द `` कैप्चर '' और खड़ा लिये `` completely  Automated Public Turing test to tell Computers and Humans Apart '' .
Carnegie Mellon University  attempted to ट्रेडमार्क the पद on 15 अक्तूबर 2004  , but the trademark application was abandoned on 21 April 2008 .
A CAPTCHA is sometimes  वर्णित as a रिवर्स turing परीक्षण , क्युकी it is administered by a यंत्र और targeted  at a human , in contrast to the standard Turing test that is typically administered by a human and targeted at a machine .
Jacques-Yves Cousteau ( ; commonly known in English as  ज़ाक cousteau ; 11 जून 1910 – 25 जून 1997 ) थी a फ्रेंच नवल अधिकारी , एक्सप्लोरर , conservationist , फिल्मकार , innovator ,  scientist , photographer , author and researcher who studied the sea and all forms of life in water .
He co-developed the Aqua-Lung ,  pioneered समुद्री संरक्षण और थी a सदस्य  of the Académie française .
KFC ( Kentucky Fried Chicken ) is a fast food restaurant chain headquartered  in louisville , केंटकी , संयुक्त राज्य  , which specializes in fried chicken .
An `` American icon '' , it is the world 's second largest restaurant chain overall (  as measured by बिक्री ) बाद मैकडोनाल्ड 's , साथ over  18,000 outlets in 120 countries and territories .
The  कम्पनी is a subsidiary  of Yum !
Brands , a  रेस्तरां कम्पनी जिससे भी  owns Pizza Hut and Taco Bell .
KFC was founded  by harland सैंडर्स  , who began selling fried chicken from his roadside restaurant in Corbin , Kentucky during the Great Depression .
Sanders was one of the first people to see the potential of the  रेस्तरां फ़्रेंचाइज़िंग अवधारणा , साथ the पहला ``  Kentucky Fried Chicken '' franchise opening in Utah in 1952 .
The franchise popularized chicken in the fast food industry , thereby diversifying the market  और चुनौतीपूर्ण the दबदबा of the  hamburger .
Marketing himself as `` Colonel Sanders '' , he became a legendary figure of American cultural  इतिहास , और उसके चित्र is स्टिल prominently प्रयुक्त in केएफसी ब्रांडिंग  .
The company  's रैपिड विस्तार  saw it grow too large for Sanders to manage , and in 1964 he sold the company to a group of investors led by John Y . Brown , Jr. and Jack Massey .
KFC was one of the first fast food chains to expand internationally ,  खोलने आउटलेट in इंग्लैण्ड , मैक्सिको और प्यूर्टो  Rico by the mid-1960s .
Throughout the 1970s and 1980s , KFC experienced mixed  सौभाग्य domestically , as it गई  through a series of corporate owners who had little or no experience in the restaurant business .
In the  जल्दी 1970s , केएफसी थी बेची to the आत्माओं  firm Heublein , who were taken over by the R.J. Reynolds food and tobacco conglomerate , who sold the chain to PepsiCo .
the कड़ी जारी to विस्तार विदेशी  however , and in 1987 KFC became the first Western restaurant chain to open in China .
The chain has since expanded rapidly in China ,  और the देश is अभी the कम्पनी 's सबसे  profitable market .
PepsiCo spun off its restaurants division as Tricon  वैश्विक रेस्तरां , जिससे बाद बदला इसके नाम to  Yum !
ब्रांड्स .
KFC primarily sells fried chicken pieces and  विसंगतियाँ ऐसे as मुर्गा सैंडविच और wraps , सलाद  and side dishes such as French fries and coleslaw , desserts and soft drinks , often supplied by PepsiCo .
Its most famous product is pressure  fried मुर्गा टुकड़े ,  seasoned with Sanders ' `` Original Recipe '' of 11 herbs and spices .
The exact nature of these ingredients is unknown , and  represents a notable  trade secret .
larger portions of fried मुर्गा हैं परोसा in a distinctive गत्ता `` बाल्टी  '' , which has become a signature of the chain since being introduced by franchisee Pete Harman .
KFC is famous for the slogan  `` उंगली lickin ' शुभ '' , जिससे रै चूंकि महरूम  replaced by `` Nobody does chicken like KFC '' and `` So good '' .
Cnidaria ( with a silent c ) or Coelenterata is a phylum  containing over 10,000 प्रजाति of पशु मिला exclusively in जलीय  and mostly marine environments .
Their distinguishing  विशेषता is cnidocytes , specialized कोशिकाएं कि वे उपयोग मुख्यतः  for capturing prey .
Their bodies consist of mesoglea , a non-living jelly-like substance ,  sandwiched between दो परतों of epithelium  that are mostly one cell thick .
They have two basic body forms : swimming medusae and sessile  polyps , दोनो of जिससे हैं radially सममित साथ mouths घिरी by  tentacles that bear cnidocytes .
Both forms  have a सिंगल orifice और देह  cavity that are used for digestion and respiration .
Many cnidarian species produce  colonies कि हैं सिंगल जीवों  composed of medusa-like or polyp-like zooids , or both .
Cnidarians ' activities are coordinated by a  विकेन्द्रित तंत्रिका जाल और सरल receptors  .
Several  free-swimming cubozoa और scyphozoa possess balance-sensing  statocysts , and some have simple eyes .
Not all  cnidarians reproduce  sexually .
Many have complex lifecycles with  अलैंगिक polyp चरण और यौन medusae ,  but some omit either the polyp or the medusa stage .
Cnidarians were for a long time  grouped साथ ctenophores in the phylum coelenterata  , but increasing awareness of their differences caused them to be placed in separate phyla .
Cnidarians are classified into four main groups : the almost wholly sessile Anthozoa ( sea anemones , corals , sea pens ) ; swimming Scyphozoa ( jellyfish ) ; Cubozoa ( box jellies ) ; and Hydrozoa , a diverse group  कि शामिल सब the freshwater cnidarians as खूब as अनेक समुद्री फ़ॉर्म , और रै दोनो स्थानबद्ध  members such as Hydra and colonial swimmers such as the Portuguese Man o ' War .
staurozoa have recently महरूम recognised as a क्लास in उनके अपना सही बल्कि than a sub-group  of Scyphozoa , and there is debate about whether Myxozoa and Polypodiozoa are cnidarians or closer to bilaterians ( more complex animals ) .
सबसे cnidarians शिकार on जीवों ranging in आकार इससे प्लवक to पशु अनेक टाइम्स  larger than themselves , but many obtain much of their nutrition from endosymbiotic algae , and a few are parasites .
Many are preyed upon by other animals  सहित starfish , समुद्र slugs ,  fish and turtles .
Coral reefs , whose polyps are rich  in endosymbiotic शैवाल , support कुछ of the संसार 's सबसे  productive ecosystems , and protect vegetation in tidal zones and on shorelines from strong currents and tides .
While corals are almost entirely restricted to warm ,  उथले समुद्री waters , अन्य cnidarians सजीव in the गहराइयों ,  in polar seas and in freshwater .
Fossil cnidarians have been found in rocks formed  परिचय , और अन्य जीवाश्मों  show that corals may have been present shortly before and diversified a few million years later .
Fossils  of cnidarians कि  do not build mineralized structures are very rare .
Scientists currently think that cnidarians , ctenophores and bilaterians are more closely  सम्बन्धित to calcareous sponges than ये हैं to अन्य sponges , और कि anthozoans हैं the विकासवादी `` aunts '' or `` बहनों '' of अन्य cnidarians  , and the most closely related to bilaterians .
Recent analyses have  concluded कि cnidarians , हालांकि माना अधिक `` आदिम  '' than bilaterians , have a wider range of genes .
The  एज़टेक पिरामिड at st. cecilia  Acatitlan , Mexico State .
Aztec jade mask  depicting the  god Xipe Totec .
Large  सिरेमिक प्रतिमा of an एज़टेक  Eagle Warrior
Aztec  cosmogram in the pre-hispanic  Codex Fejérváry-Mayer - the fire god Xiuhtecuhtli is in the center .
The Aztec people  यहूद निश्चित जातीय समूह of सेंट्रल मैक्सिको , विशेषकर  those groups who spoke the Nahuatl language and who dominated large parts of Mesoamerica from the 14th to 16th centuries .
The Nahuatl words aztecatl ( singular ) and aztecah ( plural ) mean `` people from  aztlan `` , a पौराणिक प्लेस लिये the nahuatl-speaking संस्कृति of the समय  , and later adopted as the word to define the Mexica people .
Often the term `` Aztec '' refers exclusively to the  mexica लोगों of tenochtitlan ( अभी the स्थान of मैक्सिको नगर ) , situated  on an island in Lake Texcoco , who referred to themselves as Mexica Tenochca or Cōlhuah Mexica .
Sometimes the term also includes the inhabitants of Tenochtitlan 's  दो प्रिंसिपल अलाइड city-states , the acolhuas of texcoco और the tepanecs of tlacopan , जो साथ साथ the  Mexica formed the Aztec Triple Alliance which controlled what is often known as `` the Aztec Empire '' .
In other contexts , Aztec may refer to  सब the विभिन्न नगर राज्य और उनके peoples , जो साझा विशाल भाग of उनके जातीय इतिहास  and cultural traits with the Mexica , Acolhua and Tepanecs , and who often also used the Nahuatl language as a lingua franca .
In this meaning it is possible  to बात परिचय an एज़टेक सभ्यता सहित सब the particular सांस्कृतिक पैटर्न  common for most of the peoples inhabiting Central Mexico in the late postclassic period .
From the  13th सदी , the घाटी of मैक्सिको थी the दिल of एज़टेक सभ्यता : यहाँ  the capital of the Aztec Triple Alliance , the city of Tenochtitlan , was built upon raised islets in Lake Texcoco .
The Triple Alliance  formed a उपनदी साम्राज्य expanding इसके राजनैतिक आधिपत्य दूर परे  the Valley of Mexico , conquering other city states throughout Mesoamerica .
At its pinnacle , Aztec  संस्कृति था समृद्ध और जटिल पौराणिक और धार्मिक परंपराओं , as खूब as reaching उल्लेखनीय  architectural and artistic accomplishments .
In 1521 Hernán  cortés , साथ साथ a विशाल क्रमांक of नावातल बोलना स्वदेशी allies , conquered  Tenochtitlan and defeated the Aztec Triple Alliance under the leadership of Hueyi Tlatoani Moctezuma II .
Subsequently the Spanish founded the new settlement of Mexico City  on the साईट of the ruined एज़टेक पूंजी , इससे जहाँ वे proceeded  with the process of colonizing Central America .
Aztec culture and  इतिहास is primarily ज्ञात through पुरातत्व प्रमाण मिला in excavations ऐसे as कि of the प्रसिद्ध templo महापौर in मैक्सिको नगर ; इससे स्वदेशी छाल पेपर codices ; इससे eyewitness खाते by स्पेनी conquistadors ऐसे as hernán cortés और बर्नल  Díaz del Castillo ; and especially from 16th and 17th century descriptions of Aztec culture and history written by Spanish clergymen and literate Aztecs in the Spanish or Nahuatl language , such as the famous Florentine Codex compiled by the Franciscan monk Bernardino de Sahagún with the help of indigenous Aztec informants .
Anderson Hays Cooper ( born June 3 ,  1967 ) is an अमरीकी पत्रकार , लेखक , और टेलीविज़न  personality .
He is the primary anchor of the  सीएनएन न्यूज दिखाएँ एंडरसन  Cooper 360° .
The program is normally broadcast live from a New York City  स्टुडियो ; however , कूपर प्रायः प्रसारण सजीव on स्थान  for breaking news stories .
As of September  2011 , he भी serves as मेजबान of उसके अपना eponymous syndicated  daytime talk show , Anderson Live , which will be cancelled at the end of the second season .
A plot of a normal distribution ( or bell-shaped curve ) where each band has a width of 1  मानक विचलन – देखिए भी : 68-95-99.7  rule
संचयी संभाव्यता of a  normal distribution with expected value 0 and standard deviation 1 .
In statistics and probability  सिद्धान्त , मानक विचलन ( represented by the प्रतीक सिग्मा , σ ) shows कैसा much विभिन्नता or  dispersion exists from the average ( mean ) , or expected value .
A low standard deviation indicates that the data points tend to be very close to  the औसत ; ऊँची मानक विचलन indicates कि the आंकड़ा अंक  are spread out over a large range of values .
The  मानक विचलन of a यादृच्छिक परिवर्तनीय , सांख्यिकीय जनसांख्यिकी  , data set , or probability distribution is the square root of its variance .
It is algebraically simpler though  practically कम मजबूत than the औसत  absolute deviation .
A useful property of  मानक विचलन is कि , नापसंद variance  , it is expressed in the same units as the data .
Note , however , that for measurements with percentage as unit , the standard  विचलन होगा have प्रतिशत अंक  as unit .
In addition to expressing the variability of a population ,  मानक विचलन is commonly प्रयुक्त to  measure confidence in statistical conclusions .
For example , the margin of error in polling data is  संकल्पित by calculating the अपेक्षित मानक विचलन in the  results if the same poll were to be conducted multiple times .
The reported  हाशिया of गलती is typically परिचय twice the मानक विचलन  ­– the radius of a 95 percent confidence interval .
In science , researchers commonly report the standard deviation of experimental data , and only effects that fall far outside the range of standard deviation are considered  statistically significant – सामान्य यादृच्छिक गलती or विभिन्नता in the माप is in इस रास्ता विशिष्ट इससे causal  variation .
Standard deviation  is भी महत्वपूर्ण in वित्त , जहाँ the मानक विचलन on the  rate of return on an investment is a measure of the volatility of the investment .
When only a sample of data from a population is available , the  मानक विचलन of the जनसांख्यिकी can be अनुमानित by a परिवर्धित  quantity called the `` sample standard deviation '' .
When the sample is the entire population , its  unmodified मानक  deviation is called the `` population standard deviation '' .
Ulluco ( u : ju :  kɔ : ) ( ullucus tuberosus  ) is a plant grown primarily as a root vegetable , secondarily as a leaf vegetable .
The ulluco is one of the most widely  grown और economically महत्वपूर्ण रूट फसलों in the andean प्रदेश of दक्षिण  America , second only to the potato .
It is known there with  the आम नाम of पापा लिसा , लकिन भी by the क्षेत्रीय  names melloco ( Ecuador ) , olluco ( Peru ) , chugua ( Colombia ) or ruba ( Venezuela ) , among others .
The leaf and the tuber are edible , similar to spinach and  the आलू , क्रमशः  .
They are known to contain  ऊँची स्तर  of protein , calcium , and carotene .
Papalisa were used by the Incas prior  to आगमन of europeans in दक्षिण  America .
Ulluco tubers are  marketed as `` धरती  Gems '' in New Zealand , by Halfords Exotic Produce .
Ulluco tubers in  नई जीलैंड
An April 24 ,  1851 पोस्टर चेतावनी the `` रंगीन लोगों of बोस्टन  '' about policemen acting as slave catchers .
The Fugitive Slave Law or Fugitive Slave Act was passed by the United States Congress on September 18 , 1850 , as part  of the सुलह of 1850 between दक्षिणी slave-holding  interests and Northern Free-Soilers .
This was one of the most controversial acts of the 1850 compromise and  heightened उत्तरी fears of a `` स्लेव शक्ति  conspiracy '' .
It declared that all runaway slaves were  , upon कैप्चर , to be लौटे  to their masters .
Abolitionists nicknamed it the `` Bloodhound Law  '' लिये the कुत्तो कि यहूद प्रयुक्त  to track down runaway slaves .
Frank  जोसेफ pallone , jr. ( born अक्तूबर  30 , 1951 ) is the U.S. Representative for , serving since 1993 .
He is a member  of the लोकतांत्रिक पार्टी  .
He previously represented the  3rd ज़िला इससे 1988 to  1993 .
Trin-i-tee 5:7 is  a इन्जील duo इससे नई ऑरलियन्स  , Louisiana in the United States .
The group was marketed as a  इन्जील वैकल्पिक to r & b लड़की  groups such as Destiny 's Child and TLC .
trin-i-tee 5:7 रै  sold over 2.5 million albums .
In 1998 , the group released  उनके पहला एल्बम हकदार trin-i-tee 5:7  which debut at # 1 on the Top Gospel charts .
The album  प्रदर्शित the गीतों ``  God 's Grace '' and the cover song `` Oh !
Mary Do n't  तुम रोते ''  .
The album later  became certified  gold .
In  1999 ,  Terri Brown left the group and was later replaced by singer Adrian Anderson .
During that year , the  समूह अंकित और released  their second album , Spiritual Love .
The album became the group 's second # 1  एल्बम on the शीर्ष इन्जील चार्ट  .
The album contained the singles ``  put अपना हैंड्स '' और ``  My Body '' .
In 2002 , the group released  उनके तीसरा एल्बम the चुंबन जिससे debuted  at # 2 on the Top Gospel charts .
In 2007 , the group left  gospocentric रिकॉर्ड और हस्ताक्षरित a रिकार्ड  deal with Spirit Rising Music .
In late 2007 ,  trin-i-tee 5:7 released उनके पांचवां एल्बम t57  , which featured the top ten gospel single `` Listen '' .
T57 charted # 2 on the Top Gospel Albums , # 5 on the Top  ईसाई चार्ट , और # 12 on the शीर्ष r & b चार्ट  .
The United States federal earned income tax credit  or अर्जित आय क्रेडिट ( eitc or eic ) is a refundable कर क्रेडिट लिये low- और medium-income  individuals and couples , primarily for those who have qualifying children .
When the  क्रेडिट exceeds the राशि of कर owed  , it results in a tax refund to those who claim the credit .
This credit is provided to offset the burden of social security taxes and  भी to प्रचार an प्रोत्साहन  to work .
In order for a person or couple to claim one or more persons as their qualifying child ( ren ) , the age , relationship , and shared residency requirements must  be मिले , as खूब as कुछ अन्य आवश्यकताएँ  .
U.S. tax forms 1040EZ ,  1040a , or 1040 can be प्रयुक्त to अर्जी eic  without qualifying children .
To claim the credit with qualifying children  , 1040a or 1040  must be used , as well as attaching Schedule EIC .
EIC phases in slowly , has a medium-length plateau , and then  phases आउट अधिक धीरे than it phased  in .
Since the credit phases out at 21 % ( for two children and for three or more qualilfying  children ) or 16 % ( लिये एक qualifying चाइल्ड ) , it is सदा अस्तबलों to have एक अधिक डालर of वास्तविक सैलरी or मजदूरी ( हालांकि technically , चूंकि the eic तालिका चालें  by fifty dollar increments , it 's always preferable to have an extra fifty-dollar increment of salary or wages ) .
For tax year 2011 ,  the अधिकतम eic लिये a सिंगल व्यक्ति or युगल दाखिल  without qualifying children was $ 464 .
the अधिकतम eic साथ एक qualifying चाइल्ड थी $ 3,094 , साथ  two children was $ 5,112 , and with three or more qualifying children was $ 5,751 .
These amounts are  indexed annually  for inflation .
The earned  आय कर क्रेडिट रै महरूम भाग of राजनैतिक debates in the संयुक्त राज्य  regarding whether raising the minimum wage or increasing EIC will better address a seeming shortage of good-paying jobs .
The following is a list of halftime shows  आयोजित at the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग  's championship game , the Super Bowl .
While halftime shows are a tradition  दौरान फ़ुटबॉल खेल at सब स्तर of प्रतियोगिता , the सुपर कटोरी मध्यांतर दिखाएँ represents a आधारभूत कड़ी  to pop culture , which helps broaden the television audience and nationwide interest .
In most years since the mid-1980s , the halftime show of the Super Bowl has  प्रदर्शित लोकप्रिय रिकॉर्डिंग कलाकारों और  other well-known celebrities .
It has measurably increased television  दर्शक दौरान और  after the halftime show .
The performance is regarded one of the most-watched events in American television annually with over 100  लाख दर्शक in the संयुक्त राज्य अलोन  .
Musical genres over the years have represented a broad  दायरा of म्यूज़िक प्रकार , सहित पॉप , चट्टान , क्लासिक चट्टान  , country , hip hop , rap , blues , and soul .
in कुछ सालो , छोटी skits  or drama scenes are acted out on a stage .
The performance group Up with  लोगों रै performed at the सबसे सुपर कटोरी मध्यांतर  shows , starring in four during the 1970s and 1980s .
According to Nielsen ratings , Super Bowl XLVI halftime show headlined by Madonna in 2012 remains the most-watched  मध्यांतर दिखाएँ in इतिहास , साथ 114 लाख दर्शक  or about 3 million more than the actual game .
Beyonce 's 2013  मध्यांतर दिखाएँ प्रदर्शन  was the second most viewed show in history .
It is listed on the Guinness World  रिकॉर्ड as the largest tv  audience for a Super Bowl half-time performance .
अंतरराष्ट्रीय मेन 's दिन ( imd ) is an सालाना अंतरराष्ट्रीय  event celebrated on 19th November .
Inaugurated in 1999 in Trinidad and Tobago , the day and its  कार्यक्रम ढूँढें support इससे a किस्में of individuals और समूह in ऑस्ट्रेलिया , the caribbean  , North America , Asia , Europe and Africa .
Speaking on behalf of UNESCO , Director of Women and Culture of Peace Ingeborg Breines said of  imd , `` इस is an बेहतरीन विचार और होता दे कुछ लिंग  balance . ''
She added that UNESCO  थी looking आगे  to cooperating with the organizers .
the उद्देश्य of celebrating an अंतरराष्ट्रीय मेन  's Day include focusing on men 's and boys ' health , improving gender relations , promoting gender equality , and highlighting positive male role models .
It is an occasion to highlight discrimination against men and boys and to celebrate their achievements and contributions  , in particular लिये उनके योगदान to जातियाँ  , family , marriage , and child care .
The broader and  परम उद्देश्य of the इवेंट is to प्रचार  basic humanitarian values .
International Men 's Day is celebrated in over 60 countries , including Trinidad and Tobago , Jamaica , Australia , India , China , United States , Romania , Singapore  , माल्टा , संयुक्त किंगडम , दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी , तंजानिया , ज़िम्बाब्वे , बोत्सवाना , australia , बुरुंडी , हंगेरियाई , आयरलैंड , आइल of man , घाना  , Canada , Denmark , Norway , Austria , Bosnia and Herzegovina , Ukraine , France , Italy , Pakistan , Cuba , Antigua and Barbuda , St. Kitts and Nevis , St. Lucia , Grenada and Cayman Islands , on 19 November , and global support for the celebration is broad .
Valley Village  parkvalley
Village is a district in the  सैन फर्नांडो घाटी प्रदेश of लॉस  Angeles , California .
the मध्य आयु of इसके जनसांख्यिकी , at 36 , is ``  old for the city of Los Angeles . '' and its average household size of two people is low , compared to other parts of the city .
Developmental psychology is the scientific study of  परिवर्तन कि occur in इंसान beings over  the course of their life span .
Originally concerned with  infants और children , the फ़ील्ड रै विस्तारित to शामिल  adolescence , adult development , aging , and the entire life span .
This field examines change across a broad range of topics including motor skills and other psycho-physiological processes ; cognitive development  involving क्षेत्रों ऐसे as प्रॉब्लम  solving , moral understanding , and conceptual understanding ; language acquisition ; social , personality , and emotional development ; and self-concept and identity formation .
Developmental psychology includes issues such as the extent to which development occurs through the gradual accumulation  of ज्ञान बनाम stage-like विकास , or the extent to जिससे children हैं born साथ स्वाभाविक दिमागी  structures versus learning through experience .
Many researchers  हैं दिलचस्पी in the बातचीत  between personal characteristics , the individual 's behavior , and environmental factors including social context , and their impact on development ; others take a more narrowly-focused approach .
Developmental psychology informs several applied fields , including : educational  मनोविज्ञान , चाइल्ड psychopathology , और forensic  developmental psychology .
Developmental psychology complements several other basic research fields in psychology including social psychology , cognitive  मनोविज्ञान , ecological मनोविज्ञान , और तुलनात्मक मनोविज्ञान  .
Joseph Michael `` Joey '' Stivic is a fictional  अक्षर जो पहला appeared on the 1970s अमरीकी  sitcom All in the Family .
Joey Stivic was the son and only child of  माइक stivic ( निभाई by रोब reiner ) और ग्लोरिया stivic ( निभाई  by Sally Struthers ) , and the grandson of Archie Bunker ( Carroll O'Connor ) and Edith Bunker ( Jean Stapleton ) .
The character first appeared as a newborn baby in a two-part episode of All in the Family  जिससे aired in दिसम्बर  1975 .
After many appearances on All in the Family until Reiner and Struthers left the series in 1978 ( by that time , Joey had been played most often by alternating twins Jason and Justin Draeger ) , the Joey Stivic character next appeared on the All in the Family spin-off series ( some call it a continuation of the  असली ) आर्ची बंकर 's प्लेस in a अतिथि रूप in the नवम्बर 1979 एपीसोड `` थैंक्सगिविंग पुनर्मिलन .  ''
In this instance , the  अक्षर थी निभाई by चाइल्ड कर्ता  Dick Billingsley and was appropriately pre-school age .
With Gloria now  अलग इससे माइक , वो लौटे to आर्ची बंकर 's प्लेस  with Joey in the February 1982 episode `` Gloria Comes Home . ''
In this episode ,  जॉय थी निभाई  by Christopher Johnston .
Joey Stivic was a  नियमित अक्षर on the सब in the परिवार  spin-off series Gloria in 1982 and 1983 .
On this series , in which the now-divorced Gloria Bunker  अक्षर था स्थानांतरित to upstate नई यॉर्क in अनुक्रम to कार्य as an सहायक veterinarian  , the part of Joey Stivic was played by ten-year-old actor Christian Jacobs .
After Gloria was canceled in 1983 , Joey Stivic disappeared  इससे प्रधान समय टेलीविज़न लिये 11 सालो , जबतक the अक्षर बना एक पिछला रूप on 704 hauser , a short-lived  1994 series about a black family who had moved into the old Bunker home , years after Bunker had sold it .
In this  रूप , the जॉय stivic अक्षर थी निभाई  by Casey Siemaszko , an actor born in 1961 ( 14 years before Joey Stivic 's fictional birth ) .
In 1976 the Ideal Toy Company released a 14-inch ``  जॉय stivic गुड़िया '' ( पुकारा `` आर्ची बंकर 's पोता  '' ) which was billed as the `` first anatomically correct male doll . ''
The doll inspired mild controversy at  the समय , और is a collectors  ' item today .
The 2011  रोज़ कटोरी थी  the 97th edition of the annual bowl game played on January 1 , 2011 , as part of the 2010 college football season .
Played in Pasadena , California , the TCU Horned Frogs of the Mountain West Conference defeated the  विस्कॉन्सिन badgers of the बिग टेन सम्मेलन by a  score of 21 – 19 .
the pasadena टूर्नामेंट  of Roses Association was the organizer of the game .
Vizio Inc. was the  कॉरपोरेट प्रायोजक और the खेल थी officially नामित  `` The Rose Bowl Game presented by Vizio '' .
This game marked the first time a team from a non-Automatic Qualifying Conference  निभाई in , और जीती , the रोज़ कटोरी in इसके 97 सालो .
The contest was broadcast on cable television station ESPN  साथ a रेडियो ब्रॉडकास्ट on ईएसपीएन रेडियो और xm उपग्रह  Radio and ESPN3 streaming video over the internet .
Coverage  began at 1:30 pm ( pst ) साथ  kickoff at 2:10 PM ( PST ) .
This marked the first time  कि the खेल थी नहीं ब्रॉडकास्ट nationally `` over-the-air ''  ( terrestrial television ) since the games prior to the 1952 Rose Bowl , which was the first nationally televised college football game .
The Rose Bowl Game , themed Building Dreams , Friendships , & Memories , was a contractual sell-out , with 64,500  टिकटें आबंटित to the participating टीमों  and conferences .
Ticket prices for all  सीटे in the  Rose Bowl are listed at $ 145 .
The remaining  टिकटें गई to the टूर्नामेंट of गुलाब सदस्यों  , sponsors , City of Pasadena residents , and the general public .
The Rose Bowl  स्टेडियम क्षमता is सूचीबद्ध at  approximately 91,000 .
The Declaration of Independence is a statement adopted by the Continental Congress on July 4  , 1776 , जिससे घोषित कि the तेरह अमरीकी colonies , तब at युद्ध साथ ग्रेट ब्रिटेन , regarded  themselves as independent states , and no longer a part of the British Empire .
Instead they now formed  a नई nation—the संयुक्त राज्य of  America .
John Adams was a leader in  pushing लिये स्वतंत्रता , जिससे थी unanimously  approved on July 2 .
A committee had already drafted the formal declaration , to be ready when  कॉंग्रेस voted on स्वतंत्रता  .
Adams persuaded the committee to  चुनें थामस जेफरसन to लिखें the असली ड्राफ्ट of  the document , which congress would edit to produce the final version .
The  घोषणा थी ultimately a औपचारिक स्पष्टीकरण of क्यों कॉंग्रेस था voted on जुलाई 2 to घोषित  independence from Great Britain , more than a year after the outbreak of the American Revolutionary War .
The national birthday , the  स्वतंत्रता दिन is मनाये on जुलाई 4 ,  although Adams wanted July 2 .
बाद ratifying  the text on July 4 , Congress issued the Declaration of Independence in several forms .
It was initially published as the printed Dunlap broadside that was  widely वितरित और पढ़ा to the  public .
The most famous version of the Declaration , a signed copy that is popularly regarded  as the घोषणा of स्वतंत्रता , is प्रदर्शित at the नेशनल अभिलेख in वॉशिंगटन  , D.C .
Although the wording of the Declaration was approved on July 4 , the date of  इसके हस्ताक्षर  was August 2 .
The original July 4 United States Declaration of Independence manuscript was lost while  सब अन्य नक़ल have महरूम निकला इससे इस असली  document .
The sources and interpretation of the Declaration have  महरूम the विषय of much scholarly  inquiry .
The Declaration justified the independence of the United States by listing colonial  grievances विरूद्ध किंग जार्ज iii , और by asserting निश्चित प्राकृतिक और विधिक  rights , including a right of revolution .
Having served its original  purpose in announcing स्वतंत्रता , the टेक्स्ट of the  Declaration was initially ignored after the American Revolution .
Since then ,  it रै आइये to be माना a प्रमुख बयान on इंसान अधिकारों  , particularly its second sentence:
We hold  ये सच्चाई to be self-evident , कि सब मेन हैं निर्मित बराबर , कि वे हैं endowed by  their Creator with certain unalienable Rights , that among these are Life , Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness .
This has been called `` one of the best-known sentences in the English language '' , containing `` the  सबसे potent और consequential शब्द in अमरीकी इतिहास  . ''
The passage  आए to represent a moral मानक  to which the United States should strive .
This view was notably promoted by Abraham Lincoln , who considered the Declaration to be the foundation of his political philosophy , and argued that the  घोषणा is a बयान of सिद्धान्त through जिससे the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान  should be interpreted .
It has inspired work for the  अधिकारों of अधिकारहीन लोगों  throughout the world .
chitty chitty बंग बंग is a 1968  British musical film loosely based on Ian Fleming 's novel .
The film 's script is by Roald Dahl and  केन ह्यूजेस और इसके गीतों by the शरमन  Brothers .
It stars  लंड वैन dyke as caractacus  Potts and Sally Ann Howes as Truly Scrumptious .
The film was directed by Ken Hughes and produced by Albert R.  ब्रोकोली ( co-producer of the जेम्स बंध श्रेणी  of films , also based on Fleming 's novels ) .
जॉन stears पर्यवेक्षित  the special effects .
Irwin Kostal  पर्यवेक्षित और conducted the म्यूज़िक , जबकि the  musical numbers were staged by Marc Breaux and Dee Dee Wood .
A region is arid when it is  characterized by a कठोर कमी of उपलब्धियाँ जल , to the extent of hindering  or preventing the growth and development of plant and animal life .
Environments subject to arid climates  tend to कमी वनस्पति और हैं पुकारा  xeric or desertic .
Most ``  arid '' climates घेर the equator ; ये स्थान शामिल सबसे of  Africa and parts of South America and Central America .
Cancer ( ♋ ) is an astrological sign , which is  संबद्ध साथ the नक्षत्र  Cancer .
It spans the 90-120th degree of the zodiac , between 90 and  125.25 उपाधि of celestial देशांतर , जिससे the सूर्य  transits this area on average between June 22 to July 22 each year .
And under the  sidereal zodiac , it is फिलहाल  from July 21 to August 9 .
The United States  अध्यक्षीय चुनाव of 1960 थी the 44th quadrennial  presidential election , held on Tuesday , November 8 , 1960 .
The  रिपब्लिकन पार्टी मनोनीत लाज़िम vice-president रिचर्ड निक्सन ,  while the Democratic Party nominated John F. Kennedy , Senator from Massachusetts .
The incumbent President , Republican Dwight D. Eisenhower , was not eligible for re-election after serving the  अधिकतम दो शर्तें अनुमत by the twenty-second amendment  .
Kennedy was elected with a lead of 112,827 votes , or 0.17 % of the popular vote , giving him a victory  of 303 to 219 in the चुनावी कॉलेज , the closest चूंकि  1916 .
This was the first election  in जिससे सब पचास of the वर्तमान संयुक्त  States participated .
A  क्रमांक of कारकों बताइये  why the election was so close .
Kennedy gained since there was  an आर्थिक मंदी जिससे ठेस the लाज़िम रिपब्लिकन , और he था the लाभ of 17 लाख  more registered Democrats than Republicans .
Furthermore ,  the नई मत कि कैनेडी gained among catholics  almost neutralized the new votes Nixon gained among Protestants .
कैनेडी 's  campaigning skills decisively outmatched Nixon 's .
In the end , Nixon 's emphasis on his experience carried little weight , and he wasted  उर्जा by campaigning in सब 50 राज्य  instead of concentrating on the swing states .
Kennedy used his large , well-funded campaign organization  to जीत the नामांकन , सुरक्षित समर्थन  , and , with the aid of the last of the big-city bosses , to get out the vote in the big cities .
He  relied on कार्यशील mate lyndon  B. Johnson to hold the South and used television effectively .
This election is notable as being the first time in U.S. history that two sitting U.S .  सीनेटरों ( कैनेडी और जॉनसन ) यहूद निर्वाचित as अध्यक्ष और  vice-president , a phenomenon that has been repeated once , by Barack Obama and Joe Biden in 2008 ( in both cases , the president was the younger , more junior senator ) .
Sherwood is a city in  वॉशिंगटन काउंटी , ऑरेगॉन , संयुक्त राज्य  .
Located in the southeast corner of the county , it is  a आवासीय जातियाँ in the tualatin घाटी  southwest of Portland .
The  जनसांख्यिकी थी 11,791 at the 2000  census .
According to the 2010 census , the  जनसांख्यिकी थी 18,205 निवासियों  .
indirectly नामित लिये the शेरवुड  Forest in England , it was first incorporated in 1893 as a town .
the यूएसए patriot अधिनियम of 2001 is an अधिनियम of  the U.S. Congress that was signed into law by President George W. Bush on October 26 , 2001 .
The title of the act is a ten letter acronym ( USA PATRIOT ) that stands for Uniting (  और ) strengthening अमेरिका ( by ) providing उचित टूल्स जरूरी ( to ) इंटरफेस  ( and ) Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 .
The act , as a response to the terrorist attacks of September 11th , significantly reduced restrictions in law enforcement agencies ' gathering of intelligence within the United States ; expanded the Secretary of the Treasury’s authority to regulate financial transactions , particularly those involving foreign individuals and  entities ; और broadened the discretion of विधि प्रवर्तन और आव्रजन अधिकारियों in निमाड़ और deporting आप्रवासियों suspected  of terrorism-related acts .
The act also expanded the definition of terrorism to include domestic terrorism , thus enlarging the number  of क्रियाएँ to जिससे the यूएसए patriot act’s विस्तारित विधि प्रवर्तन  powers can be applied .
On May 26 , 2011 , President Barack Obama used an Autopen to sign the PATRIOT Sunsets Extension Act of 2011 , a four-year extension of three key provisions in the USA PATRIOT Act while he was  in फ़्रांस : roving wiretaps , खोज of कारोबार रिकॉर्ड ( the `` पुस्तकालयों रिकॉर्ड प्रावधान `` ) , और conducting निगरानी of `` लोन भेड़ियों '' — individuals suspected of terrorist-related क्रियाएँ  not linked to terrorist groups .
Republican  नेताओ questioned if the उपयोग of the autopen मिले the संवैधानिक  requirements for signing a bill into law .
A house  in महारानी ऐनी स्टाइल  at 223 Avenue A .
Snohomish  is a नगर in snohomish  County , Washington , United States .
The population was 9,098 at the  2010 जनसांख्यिकी  .
The mayor of  snohomish is karen guzak , और  the City Manager is Larry Bauman .
Snohomish prides itself for  इसके ऐतिहासिक शहर , और थी एकबार ज्ञात लिये इसके अनेक पुरातन  shops when it was known as the `` Antique Capital of the Northwest . ''
The historic business and residential center of the town constitutes the Snohomish Historic  ज़िला , जिससे is सूचीबद्ध on the नेशनल पंजीकरण of ऐतिहासिक  Places .
Many houses bear  प्लाक साथ the साल the हाउस थी निर्मित और the नाम  of the family or individual who originally occupied it .
Once every year , the city gives  टुर of the ऐतिहासिक घरों ; एक of उन्हें , the blackman हाउस  , is a year-round museum .
A general aviation airfield ,  घनघोर एयरफील्ड , is कम than एक  mile southwest of Downtown Snohomish .
Dave Matthews Band ( DMB ) is an American rock  बैंड कि थी formed in charlottesville , वर्जिनिया  , United States , in 1991 .
The founding members were singer-songwriter and guitarist Dave Matthews , bassist Stefan  lessard , वादक /backing vocalist कार्टर beauford और saxophonist leroi  Moore .
Boyd  tinsley थी added  to the band as a violinist soon after the band was formed .
Moore  died एकाएक in अगस्त 2008 due  to complications from injuries sustained in an ATV accident .
GRAMMY Award -winner Jeff Coffin of Béla Fleck and the Flecktones has since filled Moore 's  स्पॉट as the बैंड 's saxophonist  .
Rashawn Ross and Tim Reynolds have also  become full-time touring सदस्यों  of the band .
The band 's 2009 album Big Whiskey and the GrooGrux King ( the first album since Moore 's death )  debuted at क्रमांक एक on the बिलबोर्ड 200 , कमाई the बैंड उनके पांचवां लगातार number-one debut— बनाना उन्हें the दूसरी  band behind Metallica to do so .
Their most recent  एल्बम , दूर इससे the संसार , थी released in  2012 , and also debuted at number one on the Billboard chart .
As of 2010 , the Dave Matthews Band has sold over 30  लाख रिकॉर्ड विश्वव्यापी  .
The band is known for their annual summer-long tours of the United States and Europe , featuring  lengthy improvisational renditions of उनके गीतों , accompanied by an विस्तृत वीडियो  and lighting show .
This portion of the  दौरे रै become a स्टैम्प of dmb और रै grown साथ  the band since Fenton Williams began working with them in the early 1990s .
After twenty consecutive years of touring the band announced  कि it होता लो the गर्मियाँ of 2011  off .
Dave  matthews बैंड रै जीती एक ग्रैमी  Award , and was awarded the NAACP Chairman 's Award .
According to  जूलियन बंध , ``  they sell out the largest arenas on Earth , but frequently give their music away . ''
Transcendental Wild Oats : A Chapter  इससे an अलिखित रोमांस is a गद्य व्यंग्य लिखा  by Louisa May Alcott , about her family 's involvement with the Transcendentalist community Fruitlands in the early 1840s .
The work was first published in a New  यॉर्क समाचारपत्र  in 1873 , and reprinted in 1874 , 1876 , and 1915 and after .
In her account , Alcott provides the real  लोगों शामिल साथ पतला pseudonymous  disguises .
Her father Amos Bronson Alcott is `` Abel Lamb , '' while his partner and community co-founder Charles Lane is `` Timon Lion ; '' Abigail  may alcott , louisa 's माँ और bronson 's बीवी , is `` सिस्टर  Hope . ''
Alcott depicts her father as dominated by his  अधिक forceful संगी , और दोनो मेन as लापरवाह  and impractical dreamers .
the मेन of the जातियाँ खर्च उनके समय  in pointless debates while Sister Hope works from dawn to dusk to maintain their existence .
A crisis arises at  कटाई समय , जब the अनाज क्रॉप is  threatened by an approaching storm .
In Alcott  's शब्द , `` परिचय the समय the अनाज थी तैयार to हाउस  , some call of the Oversoul wafted all the men away . ''
Sister Hope organizes the only available  सहायता , तीन छोटी लड़कियों  and a boy , and manages to save the crop .
The little community collapses as soon as the weather turns cold , when it becomes clear that their provisions are  too meager to पिछला the coming शीत  .
Timon Lion and his son abscond to join the Shakers  — हालांकि timon is अप्रसन्न to सीख कि जीवन among उन्हें is `` सब  work and no play . ''
Abel is crushed by the failure of the enterprise ; after days of  despair he begins to खा again तभी जब he realizes  that his family needs him .
Sister Hope finds a way for  उन्हें to subsist और persevere .
Alcott 's view of male arrogance and female exploitation in  इस टुकड़ा is paralleled in उसके अनोखा  , published in the same year as `` Transcendental Wild Oats . ''
`` Transcendental Wild Oats '' has been reprinted  in अनेक आधुनिक संस्करण  .
Mount of  the पावन क्रॉस is the northernmost 14,000-foot पहाड़ in  the Sawatch Range , part of the Rocky Mountains in Colorado .
It is located in the Holy Cross Wilderness near the ghost town of Holy  क्रॉस नगर और in त्रिभुज  County .
It was named for the distinctive cross-shaped  snowfield on the पूर्वोत्तर फेस  .
Under USDA Forest  सेवा प्रशासन , the पहाड़ थी proclaimed ``  Holy Cross National Monument '' by Herbert Hoover on May 11 , 1929 .
The  स्मारक थी transferred to the  National Park Service in 1933 .
In 1950 , it  थी लौटे to the वन सेवा और खोया इसके नेशनल स्मारक status—the  number of visitors to the mountain and the nearby `` Pilgrim 's Hut '' had waned , and the expense of full-time staff could not be justified .
This mountain has been the subject of  चित्रकार , फ़ोटोग्राफ़र और भी a कविता by हेनरी वाड्सवर्थ लांगफेलो  , ( The Cross of Snow ) .
the पहला सरेआम  available photograph was published in National Geographic magazine .
Thomas Moran depicted the mountain in an oil painting , which  अभी is भाग of the संग्रहण of the संग्रहालय  of the American West , part of the Autry National Center in Los Angeles , California .
It is still  much photographed लकिन  it is not as well known today as it was in the past .
Nearby features include Bowl of  आंसू झील , सीधे अंतर्गत the ईस्ट फेस of the शिखर , tuhare  Lakes , in a cirque that lies south of a significant subpeak , and several other lakes .
notable स्थितियाँ भीतर शामिल the dotsero  volcano ( near Interstate 70 ) , Vail and Aspen .
US 24 runs near the peak  through gilman  .
photochrom छपाई of माउंट  of the Holy Cross c. 1900 .
This image is a reversed view of the  पहाड़ compared to कैसा it  actually appears .
The first recorded ascent of Holy Cross was in 1873 , by F. V. Hayden and  फ़ोटोग्राफ़र W. H. जैक्सन दौरान एक of hayden 's भौगोलिक सर्वेक्षण  .
However , the peak may well have been ascended previously by miners  or अमरीकी इंडियंस  .
The first winter ascent of the peak was made in 1943 by Russel Keene and Howard  freedman of the 10th पहाड़ प्रभाग , तब stationed at शिविर hale  .
Holy  क्रॉस can be climbed by at तनिक चार अलग रूट , साथ the easiest और सबसे आम  route being the North Ridge , which involves of vertical gain over and is rated YDS Class 2 for moderate scrambling .
The  क्रॉस couloir रूट फ़ॉर्म the लंबवत portion  of the famous cross feature , and provides an advanced snow climb or extreme ski descent .
Mount of  the पावन क्रॉस रै  a history of endangering the lives of many hikers .
Primarily , the hikers who require rescue are  unfamiliar साथ the risks of प्रवेश wilderness क्षेत्रों और do नहीं लाओ पर्याप्त उपकरण और  supplies to respond to emergency conditions .
Although the summit on Mount of the Holy Cross is frequently reached on a long day hike , unprepared hikers are frequently stranded or lost due  to बदलना पर्यावरणीय शर्तें और भ्रम regarding the surrounding  landscape , especially on the descent of North Ridge .
Thorough research and reasonable  नियोजन चाहिए prevent  most tragedies .
माउंट of the पावन क्रॉस is accessible  from Tigiwon Road , south of Minturn , Colorado .
The Half Moon Pass Trail is the standard route to the summit of Mount of  the पावन क्रॉस via the उत्तर  Ridge .
Following the  पतन क्रीक ट्रेल to an ascent of  Notch Mountain Trail provides the best view of the Holy Cross snow feature from Notch Mountain Ridge .
The GSM logo  is प्रयुक्त to पहचानो  compatible handsets and equipment
GSM ( Global  प्रणाली लिये मोबाईल संचार , originally ' ) , is a मानक नियत विकसित by the यूरोपीय दूरसंचार  Standards Institute ( ETSI ) to describe protocols for second generation ( 2G ) digital cellular networks used by mobile phones .
It became  the de facto वैश्विक मानक लिये मोबाईल  communications with over 80 % market share .
The GSM  मानक थी विकसित as a  replacement for first generation ( 1G ) analog cellular networks , and originally described a digital , circuit switched network optimized for full duplex voice telephony .
This was expanded over time to include data  संचार , पहला by सर्किट switched हस्तांतरण , तब पैकेट आंकड़ा हस्तांतरण via gprs ( सामान्य पैकेट रेडियो सेवाएं  ) and EDGE ( Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution or EGPRS ) .
Further  सुधार यहूद बना जब the 3gpp विकसित तीसरा पीढी  ( 3G ) UMTS standards followed by fourth generation ( 4G ) LTE Advanced standards .
`` GSM '' is a trademark owned by  the जीएसएम संघ  .
President Franklin  D. रूज़वेल्ट लक्षण the lend-lease  bill to give aid to Britain and China ( 1941 )
The Lend  पट्टे अधिनियम थी an अधिनियम जहाँ the  United States had supported its allies .
Lend-Lease ( ) was the law that started a program under which the United States of America supplied the  संयुक्त किंगडम , the ussr  , Republic of China , Free France , and other Allied nations with materiel between 1941 and 1945 .
It was signed into  विधि on कूच 11 , 1941  , a year and a half after the outbreak of World War II in Europe in September 1939 .
This was  नौ महीने पहले the u.S. डाला  the war in December 1941 .
Formally titled An Act to Further Promote the Defense of the United States  , the अधिनियम effectively ended the संयुक्त राज्य '  pretense of neutrality .
A total of $ 50 .1 billion (  समतुल्य to $ आज ) लायक of आपूर्तियाँ यहूद shipped : $ 31.4 अरब to ब्रिटेन  , $ 11.3 billion to the Soviet Union , $ 3.2 billion to France , $ 1.6 billion to China , and smaller sums to other Allies .
Reverse Lend-Lease  comprised सेवाएं ऐसे as किराया on एयर bases कि  went to the U.S. , and totaled $ 7.8 billion ; of this , $ 6.8 billion came from the British and the Commonwealth .
The terms of the  अनुबंध provided कि the materiel थी to be  used until time for their return or destruction .
Supplies after the termination date were sold to Britain at a large discount  लिये £1 .075 अरब using long-term लोन  from the United States .
कनाडा संचालित a समान कार्यक्रम  that sent $ 4.7 billion in supplies to the United Kingdom and the Soviet Union .
The  संयुक्त राज्य किया नहीं चार्ज लिये सहायता supplied  under this legislation .
This program was a decisive step away from non-interventionist policy , which  था वर्चस्व संयुक्त राज्य विदेशी संबंध चूंकि the समाप्त of  World War I , towards international involvement .
The Jerusalem artichoke ( Helianthus tuberosus ) , also called sunroot , sunchoke , earth apple or topinambour , is a species of sunflower native to  पूर्वी उत्तर अमेरिका , और मिला इससे पूर्वी कनाडा और maine वेस्ट to उत्तर डकोटा , और दक्षिण to उत्तरी फ्लोरिडा और  Texas .
It is  भी cultivated widely आरपार the शीतोष्ण मण्डल  for its tuber , which is used as a root vegetable .
Castillo  सैन फेलिप डेल morro भी ज्ञात as फोर्ट सैन फेलिप डेल  Morro or Morro Castle , is a 16th-century citadel located in San Juan , Puerto Rico .
Stonehenge  is a प्रागैतिहासिक  monument in Wiltshire , England , about west of Amesbury and north of Salisbury .
One of the most famous sites in the  संसार , stonehenge is the  remains of a ring of standing stones set within earthworks .
It  is in the मध्य of the सबसे घना  complex of Neolithic and Bronze Age monuments in England , including several hundred burial mounds .
archaeologists मानना it थी निर्मित  anywhere from 3000 BC to 2000 BC .
Radiocarbon dating in 2008 suggested that the first stones were raised between 2400 and 2200 BC , whilst  another सिद्धान्त suggests कि bluestones may have महरूम उठाया at the साईट as जल्दी as 3000  BC .
The surrounding circular  धरती बैंको और खाई , जिससे constitute  the earliest phase of the monument , have been dated to about 3100 BC .
The site and its surroundings were added to the UNESCO 's  सूची of संसार विरासत साइट in 1986 in a co-listing  with Avebury Henge .
It is a national legally protected  अनुसूचित प्राचीन  Monument .
Stonehenge is owned by the Crown and managed by English Heritage ,  जबकि the surrounding जमीन  is owned by the National Trust .
Archaeological evidence found by the Stonehenge Riverside Project in 2008 indicates  कि stonehenge could have महरूम a दफ़न मैदान  from its earliest beginnings .
The dating of cremated remains found on the site indicate that deposits contain human bone from as early  as 3000 bc , जब the खाई और बैंको यहूद  first dug .
Such  जमा जारी at stonehenge  for at least another 500 years .
The site is a  प्लेस of धार्मिक  significance and pilgrimage in Neo-Druidry .
The NCAA Women 's Division I Championship is an annual college basketball  टूर्नामेंट लिये  women .
Held each April , the Women  's चैंपियनशिप थी उदघाटन  in the 1981–82 season .
The NCAA tournament was preceded by the AIAW  महिलाओं 's बास्केट टूर्नामेंट , जिससे  was held annually from 1972 to 1982 .
बास्केट थी एक of बारह महिलाओं 's खेल added to the ncaa चैंपियनशिप कार्यक्रम लिये the 1981-82 स्कूल साल , as the ncaa  engaged in battle with the Association for Intercollegiate Athletics for Women for sole governance of women 's collegiate sports .
The AIAW continued to conduct its established championship program in the same twelve ( and other ) sports ; however , after a year of  डुअल महिलाओं 's championships , the ncaa prevailed , जबकि the aiaw disbanded  .
Attendance and interest in the Women 's Division I Championship have grown over the years , especially since 2003 , when the final  चैंपियनशिप खेल थी स्थानांतरित to the मंगलवार following the सोमवार मेन 's चैंपियनशिप  game .
The women 's  चैंपियनशिप खेल is अभी the फाइनल overall खेल of the कॉलेज  basketball season .
Before that , the Women 's  फाइनल चार थी प्रायः निभाई on the शुक्रवार पहले  the Men 's Final Four or the hours before the men played on the final Saturday of the tournament .
The final was usually  निभाई the संडे दोपहर following  the Men 's Final Four .
The tournament  कोष्ठक is बना up of champions इससे  each Division I conference , which receive automatic bids .
The remaining slots  हैं at-large बोलियों , साथ टीमों चुनी by an ncaa  selection committee .
The selection process and tournament seedings are based on several factors , including team rankings , win-loss records and Ratings Percentage  अनुक्रमणिका ( rpi ) आंकड़ा  .
Unlike the men 's tournament , there are only 32  at-large बोलियों ( as of the अगला टूर्नामेंट in  2014 ) , and no play-in game .
The women 's  टूर्नामेंट , जैसे the मेन 's , is मंचन in a सिंगल विलोपन स्वरूप ,  and is part of the media and public frenzy known colloquially as March Madness or The Big Dance .
सब 63 खेल have  been broadcast on television since 2003 on ESPN and ESPN2 .
Similar to the pre-2011 men 's  टूर्नामेंट कवरेज on सीबीएस , लोकल टीमों हैं दिखाया on प्रत्येक चैनल जब  available , with `` whip-around '' coverage designed to showcase the most competitive contests in the rest of the country .
the rosetta स्टोन  in the British Museum
The Rosetta Stone is an ancient Egyptian granodiorite stele inscribed with a decree  जारी at मेम्फिस in 196 bc on  behalf of King Ptolemy V .
The decree appears in three scripts : the upper  टेक्स्ट is प्राचीन मिश्र चित्रलिपि , the मध्य  portion Demotic script , and the lowest Ancient Greek .
Because it presents essentially the same text in all three scripts ( with some minor  मतभेद between उन्हें ) , it provided the कुंजी to the  modern understanding of Egyptian hieroglyphs .
Originally displayed  भीतर a टेम्पल , the स्टोन थी संभवतः स्थानांतरित दौरान the जल्दी ईसाई or मध्यकालीन काल और आखिरकार  used as building material in the construction of Fort Julien near the town of Rashid ( Rosetta ) in the Nile Delta .
It was rediscovered there in 1799 by a  सिपाही , pierre-françois bouchard , of the  French expedition to Egypt .
As the first Ancient Egyptian bilingual text recovered  in आधुनिक टाइम्स , the rosetta स्टोन aroused फैली पब्लिक  interest with its potential to decipher this hitherto untranslated ancient language .
lithographic नक़ल और प्लास्टर casts  began circulating among European museums and scholars .
Meanwhile , British  सैनिकों पराजित the फ्रेंच in मिश्र in 1801  , and the original stone came into British possession under the Capitulation of Alexandria .
Transported to London , it has been on  पब्लिक प्रदर्शक  at the British Museum since 1802 .
It is the  most-visited ऑब्जेक्ट in  the British Museum .
Ever since its rediscovery , the stone has been the focus of nationalist rivalries , including its transfer from French to British possession during the Napoleonic Wars , a long-running dispute over the  सापेक्ष मान of यंग 's और champollion 's योगदान to the decipherment , और चूंकि  2003 , demands for the stone 's return to Egypt .
Study of the decree  थी already अंतर्गत रास्ता as the पहला पूरा  translation of the Greek text appeared in 1803 .
It was 20 years , however , before the  लिप्यन्तरण of the मिश्र स्क्रिप्ट थी घोषित by jean-françois champollion in पेरिस in 1822 ; it  took longer still before scholars were able to read Ancient Egyptian inscriptions and literature confidently .
Major advances in the decoding were :  मान्यता कि the स्टोन offered तीन संस्करण of the वही टेक्स्ट ( 1799 ) ; कि the demotic टेक्स्ट प्रयुक्त ध्वन्यात्मक वर्ण  to spell foreign names ( 1802 ) ; that the hieroglyphic text did so as well , and had pervasive similarities to the demotic ( Thomas Young , 1814 ) ; and that , in addition to being used for foreign names , phonetic characters were also used to spell native Egyptian words ( Champollion , 1822–1824 ) .
Two other fragmentary copies of the same decree were  खोजा बाद , और अनेक समान मिश्र दुभाषिया or trilingual inscriptions हैं  now known , including two slightly earlier Ptolemaic decrees ( the Decree of Canopus in 238 BC , and the Memphis decree of Ptolemy IV , ca . 218 BC ) .
The Rosetta Stone is therefore no longer unique , but it  थी the अनिवार्य कुंजी to आधुनिक समझना of प्राचीन  Egyptian literature and civilization .
The term Rosetta Stone is now used in other contexts as the  नाम लिये the अनिवार्य सुराग to a नई फ़ील्ड of ज्ञान  .
Poison dart frog ( also  dart-poison मेंढक , ज़हर मेंढक or formerly ज़हर तीर मेंढक ) is the आम नाम of a समूह  of frogs in the family Dendrobatidae which are native to Central and South America .
These species are  diurnal और प्रायः have  brightly colored bodies .
Although all wild dendrobatids  हैं at तनिक somewhat विषाक्त , स्तर of toxicity  vary considerably from one species to the next and from one population to another .
Many species are  threatened  .
These amphibians are often called `` dart frogs ''  due to the amerindians ' स्वदेशी उपयोग of उनके to ज़हर  the tips of blowdarts .
However , of over 175 species , only four have been documented as being used for this purpose ( curare  पौधे हैं अधिक commonly प्रयुक्त ) , सब of जिससे आइये इससे the phyllobates  genus , which is characterized by the relatively large size and high levels of toxicity of its members .
Cajeta is a Mexican confection  of thickened सिरप प्रायः बना of sweetened caramelised  milk .
According to chef Rick Bayless , the name for cajeta came from the Spanish phrase al punto de cajeta , which means `` a liquid thickened to the  पाइंट at जिससे a चमचा drawn through the द्रव reveals the नीचे  of the pot in which it is being cooked '' .
Another hypothesis  is कि it takes इसके नाम  from the small wooden boxes in which it was traditionally packed .
Mexican cajeta is considered a specialty of the city of Celaya in the state of Guanajuato , although it is also  उत्पादित साथ the परंपरागत विधि in अनेक  towns of the state of Jalisco , such as Mazamitla , Sayula , and Atotonilco el Alto .
Cajeta is made by simmering goat 's milk , or occasionally a sweetened liquid ,  stirring अक्सर , जबतक it becomes बहुत  viscous due to evaporation of water , and caramelized .
While goat milk is the  सबसे usual आधार , अन्य liquids  or juices may be used .
In Celaya , and eventually the rest of Mexico , the confection of half goat 's milk and half cow 's milk became known  by the नाम cajeta , लकिन elsewhere , the मिल्क कैंडी became ज्ञात as leche  quemada , dulce de leche , etc .
It has cousins in the many Indian milk-based sweets like pera and the milk fudge burfi , and in the opera fudge of the U.S. Cajeta  is खाया on इसके अपना as a मीठी , as a स्प्रेड or भरना लिये breads और pastries , ऐसे as churros , और  as a topping for ice cream .
Certain liquors are added to special recipes  पुकारा cajeta envinada  .
In  जोड , cajeta envinada especial  is enriched with raisins , almonds , pecans or nuts .
Often it is used as  a टॉपिंग लिये crêpes , as a मीठी सॉस boiled और  softened down with milk to soak the crepes , resulting in a tasty dessert .
In Mexico many brands make cajeta but  the सबसे आम ब्रांड  is Coronado .
It is also very common to place  cajeta between obleas  to make a traditional Mexican dessert .
Prince William , Duke of Cambridge ( William Arthur Philip Louis ; born 21 June 1982 ) ,  is the elder बेटे of चार्ल्स , प्रिंस of वेल्स , और डायना , राजकुमारी of  Wales , and third-eldest grandchild of Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip , Duke of Edinburgh .
He is second in the line of succession , behind his father , to the thrones of sixteen independent  sovereign राज्य ज्ञात as the राष्ट्रमंडल realms : the संयुक्त किंगडम , कनाडा , ऑस्ट्रेलिया , नई जीलैंड , जमैका , बारबाडोस , the बहामा , हरा , पापुआ नई गिनी  , the Solomon Islands , Tuvalu , Saint Lucia , Saint Vincent and the Grenadines , Belize , Antigua and Barbuda , and Saint Kitts and Nevis .
Prince William was educated at four schools in the  संयुक्त किंगडम और प्राप्त a उपाधि इससे the विश्वविद्यालयों  of St Andrews .
He spent  भाग of a गैप साल in चिली , बेलीज़ , तंजानिया  , and Kenya where he has lived and holidayed several times .
प्रिंस विलियम रै भी लिया kiswahili  studies at universities in Kenya and Tanzania .
He was commissioned as a Lieutenant in the Blues and Royals Regiment of the Household Cavalry —serving with his brother Prince  हैरी —and , दो सालो बाद , अर्जित उसके  wings by completing pilot training at Royal Air Force College Cranwell .
In 2009 , he transferred to the Royal Air Force , was promoted to Flight  लेफ्टिनेंट और underwent हेलीकाप्टर उड़ती प्रशिक्षण in अनुक्रम to become a full-time  pilot with the Search and Rescue Force .
in 2010 , he समाप्त उसके सामान्य और special-to-type हेलीकाप्टर  training and went on to RAF Valley on No . 22 Squadron performing co-pilot duties on board a Sea King search and rescue helicopter .
Prince William married his longtime girlfriend , Catherine Middleton , on  29 अप्रैल 2011 at वेस्टमिंस्टर ऐबी  .
Hours prior to his wedding ,  प्रिंस विलियम थी निर्मित ड्यूक of कैम्ब्रिज  , Earl of Strathearn , and Baron Carrickfergus .
Mali is  a बहुभाषी  country .
The languages spoken there reflect ancient  उपनिवेश पैटर्न  , migrations , and its long history .
ऍथनोलॉग रिश्तो  50 languages .
Of these , French is  the आधिकारिक भाषा और bambara is the  most widely spoken .
Altogether 13 of the indigenous languages of Mali have the legal status  of नेशनल भाषा  .
Sign in  फ्रेंच , at a स्मारक  in Bamako .
{ {  infobox अवकाश
चाइनीज नई साल
9 – 12  फ़रवरी ( वियतनाम  )
Rogers Building , the headquarters  of रोजर्स संचार
Rogers Communications Inc. is a diversified public Canadian  संचार और मीडिया कम्पनी  .
It is particularly in the field of wireless communications , cable television , telephone ,  और अंतरजाल कनेक्टिविटी साथ significant अतिरिक्त दूरसंचार  and mass media assets .
The  कम्पनी is headquartered  in the Rogers Building in Toronto , Ontario .
The company claims the heritage of the Rogers Vacuum Tube Company , founded in  1925 by एडवर्ड रोजर्स , जिससे प्रारंभ the cfrb रेडियो स्टेशन in टोरंटो , जिससे थी  later acquired by outside interests .
The  उपस्थित एंटरप्राइज़ तिथियाँ to 1960 , जब रोजर्स ' बेटे  , Ted Rogers , founded Rogers Radio Broadcasting Ltd .
That company acquired CHFI that year , as well as Aldred-Rogers Broadcasting , a  साझेदारी साथ जोएल aldred जिससे helped लॉन्च cfto  in 1961 .
Rogers later bought out  aldred और प्रारंभ the वर्तमान केबल और बेतार परिचालन  , known as Rogers Cablesystems Ltd .
The chief competitor to the company is Bell Canada , which has a similarly extensive portfolio of radio and  टेलीविज़न मीडिया एसेट , as खूब as बेतार , टेलीविज़न वितरण , और टेलीफोन सेवाएं , विशेषकर in पूर्वी और सेंट्रल कनाडा ; the दो  companies are often seen as having a duopoly on communications services in their regions .
However , the company also  competes nationally साथ telus लिये बेतार सेवाएं , और primarily  indirectly with Shaw Communications for television service .
the कम्पनी भी competes साथ a क्रमांक of अन्य  media companies in the broadcasting industry .
The Internet is a global system of interconnected computer networks that use the  मानक अंतरजाल प्रोटोकॉल सुइट ( tcp/ip ) to serve अरबों of उपयोक्ता  worldwide .
It is a network of networks that consists of millions of private  , पब्लिक , अकादमिक , कारोबार  , and government networks , of local to global scope , that are linked by a broad array of electronic , wireless and optical networking technologies .
The  अंतरजाल carries an extensive दायरा of सूचना संसाधन और सेवाएं ,  such as the inter-linked hypertext documents of the World Wide Web ( WWW ) and the infrastructure to support email .
Most traditional communications media including telephone , music , film , and television are being reshaped or redefined by the Internet , giving birth to new  सेवाएं ऐसे as आवाज़ over अंतरजाल प्रोटोकॉल ( voip ) और अंतरजाल प्रोटोकॉल टेलीविज़न  ( IPTV ) .
Newspaper , book and other  छपाई प्रकाशन हैं adapting to वेब साईट प्रौद्योगिकी  , or are reshaped into blogging and web feeds .
The  अंतरजाल रै सक्रिय और त्वरित नई फ़ॉर्म of इंसान interactions  through instant messaging , Internet forums , and social networking .
Online  खरीदारी रै boomed  both for major retail outlets and small artisans and traders .
Business-to-business and  वित्तीय सेवाएं on the अंतरजाल affect सप्लाई  chains across entire industries .
The origins of the  अंतरजाल पहुँचें वापस to शोध commissioned by the संयुक्त राज्य सरकारी  in the 1960s to build robust , fault-tolerant communication via computer networks .
The funding of a new U.S. backbone by the National  विज्ञान न्यास in the 1980s , as खूब as निजी funding  for other commercial backbones , led to worldwide participation in the development of new networking technologies , and the merger of many networks .
The  व्यावसायीकरण of कया थी by the 1990s an अंतरराष्ट्रीय  network resulted in its popularization and incorporation into virtually every aspect of modern human life .
, more than 2.4 billion people—over a third of the world 's human population —have used the services of the Internet ; approximately 100 times more people  than यहूद using it in 1995 , जब it थी ज़्यादातर प्रयुक्त by tech-savvy मध्य और अपर क्लास लोगों in the  United States and several other countries .
The Internet has no centralized  शासन in either technological क्रियान्वयन or नीतियों लिये अभिगम  and usage ; each constituent network sets its own policies .
Only the  overreaching परिभाषाएं of the दो प्रिंसिपल नाम स्पेसेस in the अंतरजाल , the अंतरजाल प्रोटोकॉल पता स्पेस  and the Domain Name System , are directed by a maintainer organization , the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers ( ICANN ) .
The technical underpinning and  मानकीकरण of the कोर प्रोटोकॉल ( ipv4 और ipv6 ) is an कार्यकलाप of the अंतरजाल अभियान्त्रिकी कार्य फ़ोर्स ( ietf ) , a non-profit संगठन  of loosely affiliated international participants that anyone may associate with by contributing technical expertise .
The 2006 Winter Olympics , officially known  as the xx ओलम्पिक शीत खेल , थी a शीत multi-sport  event which was celebrated in Turin , Italy from February 10 , 2006 , through February 26 , 2006 .
This marked the second time Italy hosted the Olympic Winter  खेल , the पहला होने the सात ओलम्पिक शीत खेल  in Cortina d'Ampezzo in 1956 .
Italy also hosted the Games of  the xvii ओलंपियाड in  Rome in 1960 .
Turin was  चयनित  as the host city for the 2006 games in 1999 .
The official logo displayed the name ``  टोरिनो '' , the इतालवी नाम of the नगर ; the नगर is ज्ञात as  `` Turin '' in both English and the local traditional language , Piedmontese .
The Olympic  mascots of टोरिनो 2006 यहूद neve  ( `` snow '' in Italian ) , a female snowball , and Gliz , a male ice cube .
the आधिकारिक  motto of the XX Olympic Winter Games was `` Passion lives here '' .
`` Help ! '' is a song by the Beatles that served as the title song  लिये दोनो the 1965 फिल्मी और इसके साउंडट्रैक  album .
It was also released as a  सिंगल , और थी क्रमांक एक लिये  three weeks in both the United States and the United Kingdom .
``  सहायता ! '' थी लिखा primarily  by John Lennon , but credited to Lennon–McCartney .
दौरान an इंटरव्यू साथ  Playboy in 1984 , Paul McCartney stated that the title was `` out of desperation '' .
Poster  लिये  the 2005 exhibition
Siegfried   Bing ( 26 February 1838 – 6 September 1905 ) , who usually gave his name as S. Bing , and was thus often referenced erroneously as `` Samuel Bing '' ( Samuel Otto Bing , 1850–1905 , was his brother ) was a German art dealer who lived in Paris as an adult , and who helped introduce Japanese art and artworks to the West and was a factor in the development of the Art Nouveau style during the late nineteenth century .
Comparison of male and female life expectancy at birth  लिये देशों और territories as पारिभाषित in the 2011 सीआईए factbook  , with selected bubbles labelled .
The  बिंदीदार लकीर corresponds to बराबर  female and male life expectancy .
The apparent 3D volumes of the bubbles are  linearly आंशिक to उनके  population .
This  is a सूची of देशों  by life expectancy at birth .
Kennewick is a city in Benton County in the southeastern  भाग of the u.S. राज्य of वॉशिंगटन , निकट the  Hanford nuclear site .
It is the most populous of the  तीन शहरों collectively referred to  as the Tri-Cities ( the others being Pasco and Richland ) .
Kennewick is located along the  दक्षिणपश्चिम बैंको of the कोलंबिया नदी ,  opposite Pasco and just south of the confluence of the Columbia and Yakima rivers .
The  जनसांख्यिकी थी  73,917 at the 2010 census .
April 1 , 2012 estimates from the Washington State Office  of वित्तीय प्रबन्धन put the नगर 's जनसांख्यिकी at 75,160  .
The nearest commercial airport  is the tri-cities विमानक्षेत्र in pasco ,  a regional commercial and private airport .
Forbes magazine named Kennewick the # 2 area in the United States for job growth , while  आसपास yakima थी  named # 1 .
The article cites  the क्रमांक of वैज्ञानिकों employed by the प्रशांत उत्तरपश्चिम नेशनल प्रयोगशाला  and area farmland for this outlook .
The prothrombin time ( PT ) and  इसके निकला उपायों of prothrombin अनुपात ( pr ) और अंतरराष्ट्रीय  normalized ratio ( INR ) are measures of the extrinsic pathway of coagulation .
This test is also called  `` protime inr '' और ``  PT/INR '' .
They are used to determine the clotting tendency of blood , in the measure  of warfarin dosage , जिगर  damage , and vitamin K status .
PT measures factors I (  फाइब्रिनोजेन ) , ii (  prothrombin ) , V , VII , and X .
It is used in conjunction with the activated partial  thromboplastin समय ( aptt ) जिससे उपायों the मूलभूत  pathway .
`` I 'm in the Mood for Love ''  is a लोकप्रिय  song .
The  म्यूज़िक थी लिखा  by Jimmy McHugh , the lyrics by Dorothy Fields .
The song was  प्रकाशित in 1935  .
It was introduced by Frances Langford in the movie Every  रात्रि at आठ released कि साल .
The song was featured in the 1936  हमारी गिरोह ( छोटी दुष्टों ) छोटी , the पिंच सिंगर , सुंग  by Carl `` Alfalfa '' Switzer , and in the 1936 film Palm Springs .
It is often known to be  switzer 's हस्ताक्षर  song .
James Moody 's saxophone solo on a 1952  रिकॉर्डिंग of इस सोंग प्रेरित the सोंग `` मूडी 's मनोदशा  for Love `` .
Hip hop artist  प्रिंस पॉल sampled the  song as the basis for the track `` Mood for Love '' on his album A Prince Among Thieves ( 1999 ) , with Don Newkirk singing its original lyrics .
The  सोंग 's शीर्षक प्रेरित the अंग्रेज़ी  title of Wong Kar Wai 's movie In the Mood for Love .
Cross-cultural psychology is  the वैज्ञानिक पढ़ाई of इंसान बर्ताव और दिमागी प्रक्रियाओं ,  including both their variability and invariance , under diverse cultural conditions .
Through expanding research methodologies to recognize  सांस्कृतिक variance in बर्ताव , भाषा , और अर्थ it seeks to  extend and develop psychology .
Since psychology as an academic discipline was developed largely in North America , some psychologists became concerned that constructs accepted as universal were not as invariant as  previously assumed , विशेषकर चूंकि अनेक कोशिशें to replicate notable प्रयोग in अन्य संस्कृतियों था varying  success .
Since there are questions as to whether theories dealing with central themes , such as affect , cognition ,  conceptions of the स्वः , और मुद्दे ऐसे as psychopathology , चिंता , और अवसाद , may कमी बाह्य वैध जब `` exported '' to अन्य सांस्कृतिक contexts  , cross-cultural psychology re-examines them using methodologies designed to factor in cultural differences so as to account for cultural variance .
Although some critics have pointed to methodological flaws in cross-cultural psychological research and claim that serious shortcomings in the theoretical and methodological bases used impede rather than  सहायता the वैज्ञानिक ढूंढें लिये सार्वभौमिक सिद्धान्त in मनोविज्ञान , cross-cultural psychologists हैं turning अधिक to the पढ़ाई of कैसा मतभेद ( variance ) occur , बल्कि than searching लिये universals in the स्टाइल of भौतिकी or  chemistry .
In 1972 the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय संघ of cross-cultural  Psychology ( IACCP ) was established .
This branch of psychology has continued to expand as there has been an  increasing लोकप्रियता of incorporating संस्कृति  and diversity into studies .
Cross-cultural psychology is differentiated  इससे सांस्कृतिक मनोविज्ञान .
The latter is the branch of psychology that holds that human behavior is significantly influenced by cultural differences , meaning that psychological phenomena can only be  compared साथ प्रत्येक अन्य आरपार संस्कृतियों to a बहुत सीमित  extent .
In  कंट्रास्ट , cross-cultural मनोविज्ञान शामिल a ढूंढें  for possible universals in behavior and mental processes .
Walter J. Lonner , writing for Eye on Psi Chi , has  stated कि `` cross-cultural मनोविज्ञान can be विचार of as a प्रकार शोध methodology , बल्कि than an entirely  separate field within psychology ( 2000 ) . ''
`` Judas '' is a song by  अमरीकी रिकॉर्डिंग कलाकार महिला गागा , इससे  her second studio album Born This Way ( 2011 ) .
It was released by  interscope रिकॉर्ड on अप्रैल  15 , 2011 , four days ahead of its scheduled release .
Written and produced by Lady Gaga and  redone , `` यहूदा '' is a नृत्य और इलेक्ट्रो हाउस सोंग परिचय a स्त्री in  love with a man who betrayed her .
It embodies the incidents that have haunted Gaga in the past , and its core meaning  refers to the ऋणात्मक भाग  of her life that she ca n't escape .
Gaga has further explained that the song was also about honoring  एक 's भीतरी अंधेरा in अनुक्रम to लाओ oneself  into the light .
The  कलाकृति लिये the सिंगल थी  designed by Gaga in Microsoft Word .
In spite of a polarizing impact on several religious groups , the song was generally well received by critics , who likened the song to `` Bad  रोमांस `` साथ कुछ noting it चाहिए have महरूम the एल्बम 's सीसे सिंगल  .
The song has a similar sound to Gaga 's previous RedOne-produced tracks ,  सहित `` पोकर फेस  `` , `` LoveGame `` , `` Bad Romance '' , and `` Alejandro `` .
It contains  तीन पृथक hooks और a  house -influenced break down .
Gaga explained that the  लाइनों बोला दौरान the विश्लेषण बात परिचय उसके as परे मोचन  , regarding the traditional views of what a woman should be .
``  यहूदा '' initially था a दमदार बिक्री खोलने ,  but was less successful commercially in comparison to Gaga 's previous singles .
The song reached the top ten of the charts in most major music markets , and also  पहुँचे the शीर्ष of the चार्ट in दक्षिण  Korea .
A music video for the song was filmed in April 2011 , co-directed  by गागा और laurieann गिब्सन और co-starring नॉर्मन  Reedus .
It has a Biblical storyline where Reedus  निभाई यहूदा इस्कैरियट और गागा निभाई मरियम  Magdalene .
The video  portrays उन्हें as आधुनिक दिन प्रचारकों  going to Jerusalem .
It included the Biblical story of Judas betraying Jesus , and  ended साथ गागा as magdalene getting  stoned to death .
Before its release , the Catholic League condemned Gaga for the  कथित उपयोग of धार्मिक imagery और उसके भूमिका in the वीडियो  .
However , critics generally praised the video ,  नहीं ढूंढना कोई अप्रिय सामग्री  .
The video  थी मनोनीत लिये दो पुरस्कार  at the 2011 MTV Video Music Awards .
Gaga has performed `` Judas '' on a number of  टेलीविज़न shows , सहित the ग्राहम नॉर्टन दिखाएँ , शनिवार रात्रि सजीव , शुभ morning  Americas `` Summer Concert Series '' , the French X Factor as well as on The Ellen DeGeneres Show .
H.264/MPEG-4 Part 10 or AVC ( Advanced Video Coding ) is a standard for video compression , and is currently one of the most commonly used formats for the  रिकॉर्डिंग , संपीडन , और वितरण of ऊँची परिभाषा  video .
The final drafting  कार्य on the पहला संस्करण  of the standard was completed in May 2003 .
H.264/MPEG-4 AVC is a  block-oriented motion-compensation  -based codec standard developed by the ITU-T Video Coding Experts Group ( VCEG ) together with the ISO/IEC JTC1 Moving Picture Experts Group ( MPEG ) .
The project partnership  प्रयत्न is ज्ञात as the संयुक्त वीडियो टोली  ( JVT ) .
The ITU-T H.264 standard and the ISO/IEC MPEG-4 AVC  मानक ( formally , iso/iec 14496-10 – mpeg-4 भाग 10 , उन्नत वीडियो कोडिंग ) हैं jointly  maintained so that they have identical technical content .
H.264 is perhaps best known as being  एक of the कोडेक मानकों लिये blu-ray discs ; सब blu-ray डिस्क खिलाड़ी जरूर be समर्थ to डिकोड  H.264 .
It is also widely used by streaming internet sources , such as  वीडियो इससे vimeo , youtube , और the itunes स्टोर , वेब तन्त्र ऐसे as the adobe फ्लैश  Player and Microsoft Silverlight , and also various HDTV broadcasts over terrestrial ( ATSC , ISDB-T , DVB-T or DVB-T2 ) , cable ( DVB-C ) and satellite ( DVB-S and DVB-S2 ) .
non-binding मध्यस्थता is a प्रकार of मध्यस्थता in जिससे the arbitrator makes a determination  of the rights of the parties to the dispute , but this determination is not binding upon them , and no enforceable arbitration award is issued .
The `` award '' is in effect an advisory opinion of the  arbitrator 's दृश्य  of the respective merits of the parties cases .
Non-binding arbitration is used in  कनेक्शन साथ कोशिशें to पहुँचें a negotiated  settlement .
The  भूमिका of an arbitrator in non-binding मध्यस्थता is ,  on the surface , similar to that of a mediator in a mediation .
However , the principal distinction is that whereas a mediator will try to help the parties find a middle ground to compromise at , the arbitrator remains totally removed from the settlement process and will only give a  determination of देयता और , if उचित , an indication of the क्वांटम of क्षतिपूर्ति देय  .
Subsequent to a non-binding arbitration , the parties remain free to pursue their claims either through the courts , or by way of a binding arbitration , although  in अभ्यास a उपनिवेश  is the most common outcome .
The award and reasoning in a  non-binding मध्यस्थता is लगभग invariably inadmissible  in any subsequent action in the courts or in another arbitration tribunal .
Non-binding  मध्यस्थता is utilised ज़्यादातर in  the United States and Canada .
It is largely unknown in Europe , although in the United Kingdom there is a practice of parties who are seeking a settlement to jointly  instruct a महारानी 's counsel लिये an राय on the merits और संभावित क्वांटम of a अर्जी , और तब to negotiate on the आधार of the  views expressed in that opinion .
Augustine Volcano is a Lava Dome Complex on Augustine Island in southwestern Cook Inlet in the Kenai  प्रायद्वीप बरो of southcentral तटीय अलास्का  , southwest of Anchorage .
The Alaska Volcano Observatory currently rates Mount Augustine as Level of  चिंता रंग कोड ग्रीन लिये विमानन और the ज्वालामुखी चेतावनी स्तर is at सामान्य  .
Augustine Island has a land area of , while West Island ,  बस बंद अगस्टाइन 's पश्चिमी shores , रै  .
The island  is बना  up mainly of past eruption deposits .
Scientists have  महरूम समर्थ to discern  that past dome collapse has resulted in large avalanches .
A map  of बेलीज़  .
The country of Belize has roughly 386 km  of तटरेखा , और रै अनेक मूँगा reefs , cays  , and islands in the Caribbean Sea .
Most  of ये रूप  the Belize Barrier Reef , the longest in the western hemisphere stemming approximately .
The  रीफ और इसके आइलैंड्स have महरूम a युनेस्को  World Heritage Site since 1996 .
The  following is a सूची of oceanic आइलैंड्स of बेलीज़ , arranged  according to region but all of which are in the Caribbean Sea .
Most of  the आइलैंड्स variate in स्पेलिंग between  `` cay '' and `` caye '' , and also use the Spanish `` cayo '' .
River islands have not  महरूम सूचीबद्ध  .
Drive Letter Access ( DLA ) is a discontinued commercial packet  लिखने अनुप्रयोग लिये the microsoft खिड़कियाँ  operating system that allows optical disc data storage devices to be used in a manner similar to floppy disks .
DLA is  a पैकेट लिखने प्रौद्योगिकी  for CD and DVD media that uses the UDF file system .
DLA is not compatible with Windows Vista and  नए , हालांकि a पैच exists to फिक्स इस समस्या  under Windows Vista .
roxio बर्न थी introduced  on April 30 , 2009 .
As a  बदलना लिये dla , it remedies संगतता  issues Internet Explorer 8 .
Alpha Rex  emmanuel humbard  ( August 13 , 1919 – September 21 , 2007 ) was a well-known American television evangelist whose Cathedral of Tomorrow show was shown on over 600 stations at the peak of its popularity .
Limitless is a 2011 American thriller film directed by Neil Burger and starring  ब्राडली कूपर , abbie cornish , और  Robert De Niro .
It is  आधारित on the 2001 अनोखा  The Dark Fields by Alan Glynn with the screenplay by Leslie Dixon .
Alaska ( ) is a state in the United States , situated in the northwest extremity of the North American  महाद्वीप , साथ the अंतरराष्ट्रीय boundary साथ कनाडा to the ईस्ट , the आर्कटिक समंदर to the उत्तर , और the प्रशांत  Ocean to the west and south , with Russia further west across the Bering Strait .
Alaska is the largest state in the United States by area , the 4th least  populous और the तनिक densely आबादी of the 50 संयुक्त राज्य  .
Approximately  हाफ of अलास्का  's 731,449 residents live within the Anchorage metropolitan area .
Alaska 's economy is dominated by the oil , natural  गैस , और फ़िशिंग उद्योग ; it रै  these resources in abundance .
Alaska was purchased from Russia on March 30 , 1867 ,  लिये $ 7.2 लाख ( $ समायोजित लिये महंगाई ) at  approximately two cents per acre ( $ 4.74/km2 ) .
The land went through  अनेक प्रशासनिक परिवर्तन पहले बनने an व्यवस्थित  ( or incorporated ) territory on May 11 , 1912 , and the 49th state of the U.S. on January 3 , 1959 .
The name `` Alaska '' ( Аляска ) was already  introduced in the रूसी औपनिवेशिक काल , जब it थी प्रयुक्त तभी लिये the प्रायद्वीप और is निकला इससे the aleut alaxsxaq  , meaning `` the mainland '' or , more literally , `` the object towards which the action of the sea is directed '' .
It is  भी ज्ञात as alyeska , the `` ग्रेट  land '' , an Aleut word derived from the same root .
Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University ( NMMU ) is a South African  tertiary शिक्षा संस्था साथ इसके प्रमुख प्रशासन in  the coastal city of Port Elizabeth .
A merging of three institutions founded NMMU in  जनवरी 2005 लकिन इसके इतिहास तिथियाँ वापस to 1882 साथ the न्यास  of Port Elizabeth Art School .
The University draws  अंतरराष्ट्रीय विद्यार्थी  from all over the world .
There are over 3000 international students and include students from the United States ,  फ़्रांस , चीन , जर्मनी , बेल्जियम , डेनमार्क , फिनलैंड , नीदरलैंड्स , नार्वे , स्वीडन , संयुक्त किंगडम और अनेक अन्य  countries .
NMMU is a comprehensive university offering professional and  वोकेशनल प्रशिक्षण  .
The University has six campuses - five in  बंदरगाहों एलिज़ाबेथ और एक  in George .
The main campus is the  दक्षिण कैम्पस  .
विद्यार्थी at nmmu can पढ़ाई towards diplomas  and degrees up to and including doctoral level qualifications .
A number of courses include  कार्यस्थल अनुभव as भाग of the curriculum  .
CoverGirl is an American cosmetics brand  संस्थापित in मेरीलैंड , by the noxzema रासायनिक  Company ( later called Noxell ) and acquired by Procter & Gamble in 1989 .
The Noxell Company advertised this cosmetics line by allowing `` cover girls ''  , फ़ैशन मॉडल जो appear on the सामने कवर of महिलाओं 's मैगज़ीन , to  wear its products .
CoverGirl makes up for lack of direct individual customer service by providing a wide variety  of कॉस्मेटिक्स उपलब्धियाँ at उचित  prices .
On the Origin of  प्रजाति , प्रकाशित on 24 नवम्बर 1859 , is a कार्य of वैज्ञानिक साहित्य  by Charles Darwin which is considered to be the foundation of evolutionary biology .
Its full title was On  the उत्पत्ति of प्रजाति by अर्थात् of प्राकृतिक  Selection , or the Preservation of Favoured Races in the Struggle for Life .
For  the छठे संस्करण of 1872 , the छोटी  title was changed to The Origin of Species .
डार्विन 's किताब introduced the वैज्ञानिक सिद्धान्त कि populations  evolve over the course of generations through a process of natural selection .
It  प्रस्तुत a देह of प्रमाण कि the  diversity of life arose by common descent through a branching pattern of evolution .
Darwin included evidence that he  था gathered on the beagle expedition  in the 1830s and his subsequent findings from research , correspondence , and experimentation .
Various  विकासवादी विचार था already महरूम प्रस्तावित  to explain new findings in biology .
There was growing  support लिये ऐसे विचार among dissident anatomists और the सामान्य पब्लिक  , but during the first half of the 19th century the English scientific establishment was closely tied to the Church of England , while science was part of natural theology .
Ideas about the transmutation of species were controversial as they conflicted with the beliefs that species were  अपरिवर्तनशील भाग of a designed पदानुक्रम और कि इंसानो यहूद अद्वितीय , unrelated to अन्य पशु  .
The political and  theological implications यहूद पडती debated , लकिन transmutation थी नहीं  accepted by the scientific mainstream .
The book was written for non-specialist  पाठक और आकर्षित फैली ब्याज  upon its publication .
As  डार्विन थी an प्रतिष्ठित वैज्ञानिक , उसके निष्कर्षों यहूद लिया seriously  and the evidence he presented generated scientific , philosophical , and religious discussion .
The debate over the book contributed to the campaign by T.H . Huxley and his fellow members of the X Club  to secularise विज्ञान by promoting  scientific naturalism .
Within two decades there was widespread scientific agreement that evolution , with a branching pattern of common descent , had  occurred , लकिन वैज्ञानिकों यहूद slow to दे प्राकृतिक चयन the significance कि  Darwin thought appropriate .
During the `` eclipse of Darwinism `` from the 1880s to the 1930s , various other  mechanisms of एवोल्यूशन यहूद  given more credit .
With the development of the modern evolutionary synthesis in the 1930s and 1940s , Darwin 's concept of  विकासवादी अनुकूलन through प्राकृतिक चयन became सेंट्रल to आधुनिक विकासवादी सिद्धान्त , अभी the unifying अवधारणा  of the life sciences .
Charles Dillon `` Casey '' Stengel ( ; July 30 , 1890 – September 29 , 1975 ) , nicknamed `` The  बूढ़ा perfessor '' , थी an अमरीकी प्रमुख लीग बेसबॉल outfielder और मैनेजर  .
He was elected to the  बेसबॉल हॉल of कीर्ति  in .
Stengel was born in Kansas City , Missouri , and originally nicknamed  `` डच '' , a आम उपनाम at कि समय  for Americans of German ancestry .
After his  प्रमुख लीग करियर began , he acquired the उपनाम `` केसी '' , जिससे originally  came from the initials of his hometown ( `` K. C. '' ) , which evolved into `` Casey '' , influenced by the wide popularity of the poem Casey at the Bat .
In the 1950s , sportswriters dubbed him with yet another nickname , `` The Old Professor '' ( or `` Perfessor  '' ) , लिये उसके शार्प wit और उसके क्षमता to बात at लंबाई on anything बेसबॉल  -related .
Although his baseball career spanned a number  of टीमों और शहरों , he is primarily संबद्ध  with clubs in New York City .
Between playing and managing , he is the only man to have worn four of New York 's  प्रमुख लीग क्लब '  uniforms .
He was  the पहला of चार मेन ( through the ऋतु ) to मैनेज  both the New York Yankees and New York Mets ; Yogi Berra , Dallas Green , and Joe Torre are the others .
जैसे टोरेस , he भी  managed the Braves and the Dodgers .
He ended his baseball career as the beloved manager for the then  विस्तार नई यॉर्क मेट्स , जिससे जीती over the दिल of नई यॉर्क partly due to the अद्वितीय अक्षर  of their veteran leader .
June ( ) is the sixth month of the  साल in the जूलियन और gregorian पंचांग और  one of the four months with a length of 30 days .
Ovid provides two  etymologies लिये जून 's नाम in उसके कविता  concerning the months entitled the Fasti .
The first is that the  माह is नामित बाद the रोमन देवी  Juno , wife of Jupiter and equivalent to the Greek goddess Hera ; the second is that the name comes from the Latin word iuniores , meaning `` younger ones , '' as opposed to maiores ( `` elders '' ) for which the preceding month May may be named ( Fasti VI.1–88 ) .
See :  महीने in विभिन्न पंचांग भी पुकारा the ऋतु of the जून  is the month with the longest daylight hours of the year in the Northern Hemisphere and the shortest daylight hours of the year in the Southern Hemisphere .
June in the Northern Hemisphere is the seasonal equivalent to December in  the दक्षिणी गोलार्ध और  vice versa .
In the Northern hemisphere , the beginning of the  meteorological गर्मियाँ is  1 June .
In the Southern hemisphere , the  शुरूआत of the meteorological शीत  is 1 June .
At the start of June , the sun rises in the  नक्षत्र of वृष ; at the समाप्त of  June , the sun rises in the constellation of Gemini .
However , due to the precession of the equinoxes , June begins with the sun in the astrological  चिह्न of मिथुन , और ends साथ the सूर्य in the astrological  sign of Cancer .
June is known for the large  क्रमांक of विवाह कि occur  over the course of the month .
According to one etymology , June is  नामित बाद juno ( hera )  .
Juno was the goddess of marriage and a married couple 's  household , so कुछ consider it  good luck to be married in this month .
According to  another etymology provided by the रोमन कवि ओविड , जून  is named for the iuniores , latin for `` young people '' ( Fasti VI.88 ) and that the month of May is named for the maiores , Latin for `` elders '' .
in आइसलैंड , लोकगीत says कि if तुम bathe नग्न in the morning ओस on  the morning of June 24 , you are supposed to keep aging at bay for longer .
A constitution is a set of fundamental principles  or स्थापित precedents according to जिससे  a state or other organization is governed .
These rules together make up , i.e . constitute  , कया the एंटिटी is .
When these principles  हैं लिखा bas into a सिंगल दस्तावेज़ or नियत of विधिक दस्तावेज़ , those दस्तावेज़ may be कहा to embody a लिखा  constitution ; if they are written down in a single comprehensive document , it is said to embody a codified constitution .
Constitutions concern different levels  of संगठन , इससे sovereign राज्य to कंपनियाँ और  unincorporated associations .
A treaty which  establishes an अंतरराष्ट्रीय संगठन is भी  its constitution , in that it would define how that organization is constituted .
Within states , whether sovereign or federated , a constitution defines the principles upon which the  राज्य is आधारित , the कार्यविधि in जिससे कानून हैं  made and by whom .
कुछ constitutions , विशेषकर संहिताबद्ध constitutions , भी  act as limiters of state power , by establishing lines which a state 's rulers can not cross , such as fundamental rights .
George Washington at Constitutional  सम्मेलन of 1787 , हस्ताक्षर of  U.S. Constitution .
The Constitution of India is the longest written constitution of any sovereign country in the world , containing 448 articles , 12 schedules and 100 amendments , with 117,369 words in its English language version ,  जबकि the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान is the shortest लिखा संविधान , at 7 आलेख और 27 amendments .
Ron Diftler ( left ) , NASA Robonaut manager  assisting in a robonaut familiarization  training session in the Space Environment Simulation Laboratory at NASA 's Johnson Space Center .
Engineering management is a  specialized रूप of प्रबन्धन कि is चिंतित साथ  the application of engineering principles to business practice .
Engineering management is a career that brings together the technological problem-solving savvy of engineering and the organizational , administrative , and planning abilities of management in  अनुक्रम to oversee जटिल उद्यमों इससे धारणा  to completion .
Example areas of engineering are product development , manufacturing , construction , design engineering , industrial engineering , technology ,  उत्पादन , or कोई अन्य फ़ील्ड कि employs कर्मियों जो perform an अभियान्त्रिकी  function .
Successful engineering managers  typically आवश्यकता प्रशिक्षण और अनुभव in कारोबार  and engineering .
Technically inept managers tend to be  वंचित of support by उनके तकनीकी टोली , और non-commercial प्रबंधक  tend to lack commercial acumen to deliver in a market economy .
Largely , engineering managers manage engineers who  हैं चलित by non-entrepreneurial सोच , यूँ  require the necessary people skills to coach , mentor and motivate technical professionals .
Engineering professionals joining manufacturing companies sometimes become engineering  प्रबंधक by डिफॉल्ट बाद a काल  of time .
They are required to learn how to manage once they are on the job , though this is  प्रायः an अप्रभावी रास्ता to develop managerial abilities  .
In an insurance policy , the deductible is  the राशि of खर्च कि जरूर be सशुल्क आउट of जेब पहले an insurer होगा अदा कोई खर्च  .
In general usage , the term deductible may be used to describe one  of अनेक प्रकार of clauses ( देखिए नीचे ) कि हैं प्रयुक्त by बीमे कंपनियाँ  as a threshold for policy payments .
deductibles हैं typically प्रयुक्त to deter the विशाल क्रमांक of  trivial claims that a consumer can be reasonably expected to bear the cost of .
By restricting its coverage to events that are significant enough to incur large costs , the insurance  कड़ expects to अदा आउट थोड़ा  smaller amounts much less frequently , incurring much higher savings .
As a result , insurance  प्रीमियम हैं  typically cheaper when they involve higher deductibles .
Deductibles are  सामान्यतः provided as clauses in an बीमे नीति कि dictate कैसा much of an insurance-covered  expense is borne by the policyholder .
वे हैं सामान्यतः कोटेड  as a fixed quantity and is a part of most policies covering losses to the policy holder .
The insurer then becomes liable for claimable expenses that exceed this amount ( subject to  the अधिकतम योग claimable indicated in the अनुबंध  ) .
Depending on the  नीति , the deductible  may apply per covered incident , or per year .
For policies where  incidences हैं नहीं आसान to delimit  ( for example health insurance ) , the deductible is typically applied per year .
Several deductibles can be  नियत by the insurer आधारित on the  cause of the claim .
For example , a single  आवास बीमे नीति may contain  multiple deductible amounts for loss or damage arising from theft , fire , natural calamities , evacuation etc .
There are also deductible reimbursement programs that  reimburse a deductible in the इवेंट of an स्वचालित , घर  , boat/yacht or health insurance claim .
An invoice or bill is a commercial  दस्तावेज़ जारी by a विक्रेता to a खरीदार , indicating the उत्पाद , quantities  , and agreed prices for products or services the seller has provided the buyer .
An  चालान indicates  the sale transaction only .
Payment terms are independent of the invoice and are  negotiated by the खरीदार और the विक्रेता  .
Payment terms are usually  शामिल on the चालान  .
The buyer could have already paid for the products  or सेवाएं सूचीबद्ध on the चालान  .
Buyer can also have a maximum  क्रमांक of दिनों in जिससे to अदा लिये  these goods and is sometimes offered a discount if paid before the due date .
In the rental industry , an invoice must include a specific reference to the duration of the time being  billed , so in जोड to मात्रा , दाम और छूट the  invoicing amount is also based on duration .
generally प्रत्येक लकीर of a rental  invoice will refer to the actual hours , days , weeks , months , etc. , being billed .
From the  पाइंट of दृश्य of a विक्रेता , an  invoice is a sales invoice .
From the point of view of a buyer  , an चालान is a खरीदें  invoice .
The document indicates the  खरीदार और विक्रेता , लकिन the पद चालान  indicates money is owed or owing .
In English , the context of the term invoice is usually used to clarify its meaning , such as `` We  भेजा उन्हें an चालान '' ( वे owe us धन ) or `` we प्राप्त an चालान  from them '' ( we owe them money ) .
The right main bronchus ( or right primary bronchus  , or सही प्रिंसिपल bronchus ) is a bronchus of the  respiratory system .
It is wider , shorter , and more  लंबवत in दिशा  than the left .
It is about 2.5 cm long , and enters the right lung  nearly विपरीत the पांचवां thoracic  vertebra .
The azygos vein arches over it from behind ; and the  सही pulmonary धमनी झूठ at पहला नीचे और तब in  front of it .
About 2 cm from its  शुरुआत it देता बंद a शाखा  to the upper lobe of the right lung .
This is termed the eparterial branch of the bronchus , because it arises  ऊपर the सही pulmonary धमनी  .
The bronchus now passes below the artery  , और is ज्ञात as the hyparterial शाखा ; it  divides into two branches for the middle and lower lobes .
If a foreign body in the airway passes through the trachea , it will most likely enter the right main  bronchus बजाय of the बाएँ , due to the straighter संरेखण of the सही bronchus  to the trachea .
Squash is a racquet sport played by two ( singles ) or four players ( doubles  ) in a four-walled अदालत साथ a छोटी ,  hollow rubber ball .
The players must  वैकल्पिक in striking the बॉल साथ उनके racquet और  hit the ball onto the playable surfaces of the four walls of the court .
The game was formerly called squash racquets , a  सन्दर्भ to the `` squashable '' नरम बॉल प्रयुक्त in the खेल ( compared  with the fatter ball used in its parent game racquets or rackets ) .
स्क्वैश is पहचाना by the ioc और समर्थक  are lobbying for its incorporation in a future Olympic program .
In  2003 , फोर्ब्स रेटेड स्क्वैश  as the number one healthiest sport to play .
Residual oil is oil  मिला in कम एकाग्रता  naturally or in exhausted oil fields .
प्रायः मिश्रित साथ जल  , it can not be recovered by conventional techniques .
However , it can be recovered using carbon dioxide-enhanced oil recovery ( CO2  eor ) जिससे involves injecting कार्बन डाइऑक्साइड into the  well reducing viscosity and enhancing flow of the oil .
The technique is not new but has not been used extensively  on अवशेष आयल zones , low-grade जमा of पेट्रोलियम ऐसे as the 38 वर्गाकार  miles in the Permian Basin of Texas leased by Elliott Roosevelt Jr .
The technique is  सीमित by उपलब्धता of  carbon dioxide .
It does not result in  sequestration of the कार्बन डाइऑक्साइड  but the gas is recycled as much as possible .
United States reserves of residual oil are  अनुमानित to be 100 अरब  barrels .
Artist 's rendering of  the आग , by जॉन R. chapin , originally मुद्रित  in Harper 's Weekly ; the view faces northeast across the Randolph Street Bridge .
The Great Chicago Fire was a conflagration that burned  इससे संडे , अक्तूबर 8 , to जल्दी मंगलवार , अक्तूबर 10 ,  1871 , killing hundreds and destroying about in Chicago , Illinois .
Though the fire was  एक of the largest u.S. आपदाओं of the 19th सदी , the पुनर्निर्माण  that began helped develop Chicago as one of the most populous and economically important American cities .
Henry VIII ( 28 June  1491 – 28 जनवरी 1547 ) थी किंग  of England from 21 April 1509 until his death .
He was lord , and later king , of Ireland , as well as continuing the  नाममात्र अर्जी by the अंग्रेज़ी monarchs to the किंगडम  of France .
Henry was the second monarch of  the ट्यूडर राजवंश  , succeeding his father , Henry VII .
Besides his six marriages , Henry VIII is known  लिये उसके भूमिका in the विरह of  the Church of England from the Roman Catholic Church .
Henry 's struggles with Rome led to the separation of the Church of England  इससे papal प्राधिकार , the विच्छेद of the monasteries ,  and his own establishment as the Supreme Head of the Church of England .
Yet he remained a believer in core Catholic theological  शिक्षाओं , भी बाद  his excommunication from the Roman Catholic Church .
Henry oversaw the legal union of England and Wales with the Laws  in वेल्स अधिनियमों 1535 और  1542 .
In 1513 ,  the नई किंग अलाइड साथ the पावन रोमन सम्राट , maximillian i , और  invaded France in 1513 with a large , well-equipped army , but achieved little at a considerable financial cost .
Maximillian , for his part , used the English invasion to his own ends , and this  prejudiced इंग्लैण्ड 's क्षमता to शिकस्त the फ्रेंच  .
This foray  होता prove the प्रारंभ of an obsession  for Henry , who invaded again in 1544 .
This time , Henry 's forces captured  the महत्वपूर्ण नगर of boulogne , लकिन again the पावन  Roman Emperor , Charles V , supported Henry only as long as he needed to and England , strained by the enormous cost of the war , ransomed the city back for peace .
His contemporaries considered Henry in  उसके प्रधान to be an आकर्षक , शिक्षित और संपन्नता किंग  , and he has been described as `` one of the most charismatic rulers to sit on the English throne '' .
Besides ruling with absolute power , he also  सगाई खुद as an लेखक और  composer .
His desire  to provide इंग्लैण्ड साथ a पुरूष वारिस – जिससे stemmed partly इससे निजी वैनिटी और partly क्युकी he believed a बेटी  would be unable to consolidate the Tudor dynasty and the fragile peace that existed following the Wars of the Roses – led to the two things for which Henry is most remembered : his six marriages and the English Reformation .
हेनरी became रुग्ण मोटे  and his health suffered , contributing to his death in 1547 .
He is  अक्सर characterised in उसके बाद जीवन as  a lustful , egotistical , harsh , and insecure king .
La Reina del Sur ( The Queen of the South ) is a Spanish-language  telenovela उत्पादित by the संयुक्त राज्य टेलीविज़न संजाल telemundo , in संयोजन  with the Antena 3 network and RTI Producciones .
Based on a novel of the same  नाम by स्पेनी लेखक arturo pérez-reverte , the नाटक depicts  the rise of Teresa Mendoza ( Kate del Castillo ) , a young woman from Mexico who becomes the most powerful drug trafficker in southern Spain .
Patricio Wills , the  अध्यक्ष of telemundo टेलीविज़न studios  , was the executive producer .
हालांकि la reina डेल सूर थी मनोनीत लिये novela  of the Year , Favorite Lead Actress , and Best Bad Luck Video , it won no awards .
With a $ 10  लाख बजट , la reina डेल सूर थी the  most expensive telenovela ever produced by Telemundo .
The program 's premiere on February 28  , 2011 , थी the संजाल 's उच्चतम  rated premiere for a telenovela to date .
The program frequently  वर्चस्व इसके समय स्लॉट , भी over  English language programming on other major U.S. networks .
La Reina del Sur completed its 63  एपीसोड चलाएं on telemundo और इसके 13  episode run on Antena 3 simultaneously on May 30 , 2011 .
the फाइनल एपीसोड थी the उच्चतम रेटेड ब्रॉडकास्ट in telemundo 's 19-year इतिहास ( 4.2 लाख  viewers ) , and beat all of the English language U.S. television networks to earn the number one slot in the 18-49 adult demographic .
The program 's success spurred Telemundo to  लॉन्च इसके पहला अभियान  to gain the series an Emmy Award nomination .
A one-night special featuring several cast members aired on May 31 , 2011 , and marked the  telemundo डेब्यू of विख्यात latina टेलीविज़न व्यक्तित्व क्रिस्टीना saralegui  .
La Reina del Sur  is ब्रॉडकास्ट in अनेक अन्य बाज़ार , सहित सर्बिया , कोलंबिया  , Chile , Cyprus , Nicaragua , Costa Rica , Mexico , Albania , Hungary , Slovenia , Croatia , Romania , ( among others ) .
An  उदाहरण  of rack mounted servers
A web hosting service is a type of Internet  होस्टिंग सेवा कि allows individuals और संगठन  to make their website accessible via the World Wide Web .
Web hosts are companies that provide space on a server owned  or leased लिये उपयोग by क्लाइंट , as खूब as providing  Internet connectivity , typically in a data center .
Web  होस्ट can भी provide आंकड़ा बीच स्पेस और कनेक्टिविटी  to the Internet for other servers located in their data center , called colocation , also known as Housing in Latin America or France .
The  पैमाना of वेब होस्टिंग सेवाएं  varies greatly .
The most basic is web page and small-scale file hosting , where files can be uploaded via  संचिका ट्रांसफ़र प्रोटोकॉल ( एफटीपी ) or  a Web interface .
The files are usually delivered to the Web `` as is '' or with  minimal प्रसंस्करण  .
अनेक अंतरजाल सेवा प्रदाताओं ( isps  ) offer this service free to subscribers .
Individuals and  संगठन may भी obtain वेब पेज होस्टिंग  from alternative service providers .
Personal web site hosting is  typically फ़्री ,  advertisement-sponsored , or inexpensive .
Business web site  होस्टिंग प्रायः रै a उच्चतर व्यय  depending upon the size and type of the website .
Single page hosting is generally  sufficient लिये निजी वेब पृष्ठों  .
A  जटिल साईट काल्स लिये a अधिक व्यापक पैकेज कि provides डेटाबेस support और  application development platforms ( e.g . PHP , Java , Ruby on Rails , ColdFusion , or ASP.NET ) .
These facilities allow customers to write or install scripts for applications  जैसे forums और सामग्री प्रबन्धन  .
भी , सुरक्षित sockets  Layer ( SSL ) is typically used for e-commerce .
The host may also provide an interface or control panel for managing the Web server and  installing स्क्रिप्ट , as खूब as अन्य मौड्यूल और सेवा अनुप्रयोग जैसे  e-mail .
Some hosts specialize in certain software or  सेवाएं ( e.g . e-commerce ) , जिससे हैं commonly प्रयुक्त  by larger companies that outsource network infrastructure .
Madden NFL ( known as John Madden Football before 1993 ) is an  अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल वीडियो खेल श्रेणी विकसित by इलेक्ट्रॉनिक कला  Tiburon for EA Sports .
The  खेल श्रेणी is नामित बाद प्रो फ़ुटबॉल हॉल of famer जॉन मैडेन ,  a well-known former Super Bowl –winning coach of the Oakland Raiders and color commentator .
The series is the  बेहतरीन selling ea खेल  series .
the खेल have consistently  been a best seller , and has even spawned TV shows where players compete .
Among the game 's realistic features include  sophisticated playbooks और खिलाड़ी आंकडे , और आवाज़ commentary कि allows  players to hear the game as if it were a real TV broadcast .
The Madden NFL series has been  nicknamed the एनएफएल 's 33rd मताधिकार  .
The series was originally conceived by Electronic Arts founder Trip Hawkins ,  जो तब approached मैडेन in 1984 लिये उसके समर्थन  and expertise .
Due to Madden 's insistence  कि the खेल be as यथार्थवादी as संभावित , the  first version of John Madden Football was not released until 1988 .
The second version of the game was released in  1990 , साथ सालाना संस्करण चूंकि  then .
The series ' name was changed to Madden NFL in 1993 after EA acquired the rights to use  एनएफएल टीमों और  players .
Despite Madden 's retirement as a broadcaster in 2009  , he continues to lend उसके नाम और provide विशेषज्ञता  for the game .
Cindy Lee  मिलर sheehan ( born जुलाई 10 , 1957 ) is an अमरीकी antiwar activist जिनकी  son , U.S. Army Specialist Casey Sheehan , was killed by enemy action during the Iraq War .
She attracted national and international media attention in August 2005 for her extended antiwar protest at a makeshift  शिविर बाहर अध्यक्ष जार्ज W. बुश 's टेक्सास ranch —a स्टैंड कि  drew both passionate support and angry criticism .
Sheehan ran  unsuccessfully लिये कॉंग्रेस in  2008 .
She is a vocal critic of President  बराक ओबामा 's विदेशी  policy .
Her memoir  , सलाम माँ : a माँ 's यात्रा  Through Heartache to Activism , was published in 2006 .
Sheehan was the 2012 vice-presidential nominee  of the सलाम और स्वतंत्रता पार्टी  .
Wyclef Jeanelle Jean ( ; ; born  अक्तूबर 17 , 1969 ) wyclef  Dumped From Haiti 's Presidential Ballot – TIME , Aug 21 , 2010 .
`` Before he announced on August 5 that he was  कार्यशील लिये अध्यक्ष of हैती , wyclef जां थी स्टिल लिस्टिंग  his age as only 37 years old .
But after declaring himself a presidential candidate , the Haitian-American-Irish hip-hop star also decided to come clean and confirm that he was really 40 . '' is  a  three-time Grammy Award -winning Haitian-American rapper , singer-songwriter , musician , record producer , and politician .
At age nine , Jean moved to the  संयुक्त राज्य साथ उसके परिवार और रै खर्च much of उसके जीवन  in the country .
He first received fame as a  सदस्य of the acclaimed नई जर्सी  hip hop group the Fugees .
On August 5 ,  2010 , जां दायर लिये उम्मीदवारी in the 2010 haitian अध्यक्षीय चुनाव , हालांकि the  Electoral Commission subsequently ruled him ineligible to stand as he had not met the requirement to have been resident in Haiti for five years .
Wyclef Jean to appeal  विरूद्ध हैती चुनाव सत्ताधारी  – BBC News , Aug 22 , 2010 .
Haiti 's electoral commission said that Mr Jean was ineligible  to स्टैंड as the haitian संविधान requires उम्मीदवार  to have lived in the country for five years prior to an election .
The  40-year-old सिंगर जीवनदान in  the US .
Jean 's efforts at earthquake relief , highly publicized in  2010 throughout हैती और the संयुक्त राज्य , यहूद channeled through  his charitable organization , Yéle Haiti .
the दान , जिससे performed a किस्में  of charitable works in Haiti between 2005 and 2010 , effectively closed in 2012 .
In law , a set-off is a statutory defense to the whole or to a  portion of a अभियोक्ता 's  claim .
It had no existence under the English common law , being  निर्मित by 2 जियो . ii c. 22 लिये the राहत of insolvent कर्जदार , हालांकि set-off  was recognized in equity .
Such a defense could  be pleaded तभी in आदर of परस्पर debts of a definite अक्षर , और किया नहीं लागू  to cases in which damages were claimed , nor to equitable claims or demands .
By the rules of the Supreme Court ( O. XIX  . r. 3 ) a प्रतिवादी in an कार्रवाई may नियत बंद or नियत up कोई सही or अर्जी by रास्ता of counterclaim विरूद्ध the दावा of a अभियोक्ता  , and such set-off or counterclaim has the same effect as a statement of claim in a cross-action .
The legal defense of set-off ( above ) was originally introduced to prevent the unfair situation whereby a person  ( `` पार्टी a '' ) जो owed धन to another ( `` पार्टी b '' ) could be भेजा to कर्जदार थाना , despite  the fact that Party B also owed money to Party A .
The law thus allows both parties to defer payment until their  संबंधित दावा have महरूम सुना in  court .
Upon judgment , both claims are extinguished and replaced by a single net sum owing ( e.g . If Party A owes Party B 100 and Party B  owes पार्टी a 105 , the दो रकम हैं नियत बंद और replaced  with a single obligation of 5 from Party B to Party A ) .
Set-off can also be incorporated by  contractual अनुबंध so कि , जहाँ a पार्टी मूलभूत ,  the mutual amounts owing are automatically set off and extinguished .
In certain  jurisdictions ( सहित the uk ) , set-off takes  place automatically upon the insolvency of a company .
This means that , for each party which is both a creditor and  debtor of the insolvent कम्पनी , परस्पर debts हैं set-off  against each other , and then either the bankrupt 's creditor can claim the balance in the bankruptcy or the trustee in bankruptcy can ask for the balance remaining to be paid , depending on which side owed the most .
This has been criticized as an undeclared  सुरक्षा ब्याज कि  violates the principle of pari passu .
The alternative , where a creditor has to pay all its debts , but receive  तभी a सीमित portion of the leftover moneys कि अन्य  unsecured creditors get , poses the danger of 'knock-on ' insolvencies .
The right to  नियत बंद is विशेषकर महत्वपूर्ण जब रिपोर्टिंग a बैंको  's exposures to regulatory authorities .
The situation where a bank has to report that it has lent a large sum to a borrower ( and is therefore exposed , because there is a risk that the borrower might default thereby leading to the loss of the bank 's or its depositors ' money ) is thus replaced ( where the bank has taken  सुरक्षा over साझा or प्रतिभूति of the borrower ) साथ an एक्सपोज़र of the धन lent ऋण the मान of the सुरक्षा  taken .
Jennifer Joanna Aniston ( born February 11 , 1969 ) is  an अमरीकी अभिनेत्री , फिल्मी निदेशक , और निर्माता  .
Aniston gained  विश्वव्यापी मान्यता in the 1990s लिये  portraying Rachel Green on the television sitcom Friends , a role which earned her an Emmy Award , a Golden Globe Award , and a Screen Actors Guild Award .
Aniston has also  enjoyed a कामयाब  Hollywood film career .
She gained critical acclaim for her performances in the independent  films वो 's the एक ( 1996 ) , दफ्तर स्पेस ( 1999 ) ,  The Good Girl ( 2002 ) and Friends with Money ( 2006 ) .
She has had her greatest commercial successes with the films Bruce Almighty ( 2003 ) , The Break-Up ( 2006 ) , Marley &  me ( 2008 ) , बस go साथ it ( 2011 ) और भयानक  Bosses ( 2011 ) .
Aniston received a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame on  फ़रवरी 22 ,  2012 .
A white Bengal tiger  at the ह्यूस्टन एक्वेरियम
(  वीडियो  )
A  श्वेत बाघ  at Tobu Zoo , in Saitama , Japan .
the श्वेत बाघ is a recessive म्यूटेंट of the बंगाल बाघ , जिससे  was reported in the wild from time to time in Assam , Bengal , Bihar and especially from the former State of Rewa .
Conventional PCI ( PCI is an initialism formed from Peripheral  घटक इंटरकनेक्ट , भाग of the पीसीआई लोकल बस मानक और प्रायः  shortened to just PCI ) is a local computer bus for attaching hardware devices in a computer .
The PCI bus supports the functions  मिला on a प्रोसेसर बस , लकिन in a  standardized format that is independent of any particular processor .
Devices connected to the bus appear to  the प्रोसेसर to be कनेक्ट सीधे to the प्रोसेसर  bus , and are assigned addresses in the processor 's address space .
Attached  डिवाइस can लो either the रूप of an एकीकृत सर्किट fitted onto  the motherboard itself , called a planar device in the PCI specification , or an expansion card that fits into a slot .
The PCI Local Bus was first implemented in IBM PC compatibles , where it displaced  the संयोजन of isa प्लस एक vesa लोकल बस as the बस  configuration .
It  रै subsequently महरूम  adopted for other computer types .
PCI and PCI-X are being replaced by PCI Express  , लकिन , सबसे motherboards हैं स्टिल बना साथ एक or अधिक पीसीआई स्लॉट  , which are sufficient for many uses .
The  पीसीआई specification कवर the शारीरिक आकार of the बस ( सहित  the size and spacing of the circuit board edge electrical contacts ) , electrical characteristics , bus timing , and protocols .
The specification can be purchased from  the पीसीआई खास ब्याज समूह ( pci-sig  ) .
Typical PCI cards used in PCs include :  संजाल ताश , ध्वनि ताश , modems , अतिरिक्त पोर्ट ऐसे as usb or सीरियल , tv ट्यूनर ताश  and disk controllers .
PCI video cards replaced ISA and VESA cards , until  growing बैंडविड्थ आवश्यकताएँ outgrew the सामर्थ्य of पीसीआई ; the पसन्दीदा  interface for video cards became AGP , and then PCI Express .
PCI video cards remain available for use  साथ बूढ़ा pcs बगैर अगप  or PCI Express slots .
Many devices previously provided on PCI expansion cards are now commonly integrated onto  motherboards or उपलब्धियाँ in सार्वभौमिक सीरियल बस और पीसीआई एक्स्प्रेस संस्करण  .
Caffeine is a bitter ,  श्वेत crystalline xanthine  alkaloid that acts as a stimulant drug .
Caffeine is found in varying quantities in the seeds ,  पत्ते , और फल of कुछ पौधे , जहाँ it अधिनियमों as a प्राकृतिक कीटनाशक कि paralyzes और  kills certain insects feeding on the plants , as well as enhancing the reward memory of pollinators .
It is most commonly consumed by humans in infusions extracted from the seed of the coffee plant and the leaves of the tea bush , as well as from various  भोजन और पेय containing उत्पाद निकला इससे the कोला नट  .
Other sources include yerba maté , guarana berries , guayusa ,  और the yaupon  holly .
In humans , caffeine acts as a central nervous  प्रणाली उत्तेजक  , temporarily warding off drowsiness and restoring alertness .
It is the world 's most widely consumed psychoactive drug , but unlike many other psychoactive substances ,  it is विधिक और unregulated in nearly सब भाग of the संसार  .
Beverages containing caffeine  , ऐसे as कॉफी , चाय , नरम पेय  , and energy drinks , enjoy great popularity .
In North America , 90 % of  वयस्कों consume कैफीन  daily .
Part  of the कारण कैफीन is वर्गीकृत by the खाना और ड्रग प्रशासन as ग्रा ( generally  recognized as safe ) is that toxic doses ( over 10 grams ) are much higher than typically used doses ( less than 500 milligrams ) .
Ordinary consumption can have low health risks , even when  carried on लिये सालो – वहीँ may be a modest सुरक्षात्मक प्रभाव  against some diseases , including Parkinsons Disease , and certain types of cancer .
कैफीन can have दोनो धनात्मक और  negative effects on anxiety disorders .
Some people experience sleep disruption if they consume caffeine , especially during the evening hours , but others show  छोटी disturbance और the प्रभाव of कैफीन on नींद is  highly variable .
Evidence  of a रिस्क to गर्भावस्था is equivocal  , but some authorities have concluded that prudent advice is for pregnant women to limit consumption to the equivalent of two cups of coffee per day or less .
The American Congress of  obstetricians और स्त्रीरोग  ( ACOG ) concluded in 2010 that caffeine consumption is safe up to 200 mg per day in pregnant women .
Caffeine has pressor and mild diuretic  प्रभाव जब administered to लोगों जो हैं नहीं प्रयुक्त to it , लकिन नियमित उपयोक्ता develop a सहिष्णुता to इस प्रभाव  , and studies have generally failed to support the common notion that ordinary consumption contributes significantly to dehydration .
With heavy use , tolerance develops rapidly to autonomic  प्रभाव ऐसे as elevated दिल रेट और मांसपेशी twitching  , but not to the cognitive or arousal effects of caffeine .
The degree to which caffeine can produce clinically  significant शारीरिक और दिमागी dependence remains a विषय of विवाद  in the medical literature .
a kicktail  cruiser
A  longboard is a longer रूपांतर  of a skateboard .
It is commonly used for cruising , downhill racing , slalom  रेसिंग , स्लाइडिंग , and/or हस्तांतरण  .
Sources outside of Wikipedia  दे differing अनुमानs:
The CIA 's World Factbook gives the world population as 7,021,836,029 ( July  2012 est . ) और the वितरण of धर्मों as ईसाई 100 % ( of जिससे रोमन कैथोलिक 18.85 % , प्रोटोस्टेंट 8.15  % , Orthodox 4.96 % , Anglican 1.26 % ) , Muslim 22.74 % , Hindu 13.8 % , Buddhist 6.77 % , Sikh 0.35 % , Jewish 0.22 % , Baha'i 0.11 % , other religions 10.95 % , non-religious 9.66 % , atheists 2.01 % .
( 2010 est  . ) .
The Coast Ranges of California span from Humboldt County ,  कैलिफ़ोर्निया दक्षिण to सांता  Barbara County .
The other three coastal California mountain ranges are the Transverse  सीमाएँ , प्रायद्वीपीय सीमाएँ  and the Klamath Mountains .
Physiographically , they are a section of the larger  प्रशांत किनारा प्रांत , जिससे in फेरे हैं भाग  of the larger Pacific Mountain System physiographic division .
UNESCO has included the `` California Coast  सीमाएँ जीवमंडल आरक्षित `` in इसके man और the जीवमंडल  Programme of World Network of Biosphere Reserves since 1983 .
Vehicles  in उपयोग प्रति देश इससे 2001  to 2007 .
It  shows the significant विकास  in BRIC .
World  मैप of यात्री  cars per 1000 people
An automobile , autocar ,  मोटर car or car is a wheeled मोटर गाडी प्रयुक्त लिये transporting  passengers , which also carries its own engine or motor .
Most  परिभाषाएं of the पद बताएँ कि ऑटोमोबाइल हैं designed to चलाएं primarily  on roads , to have seating for one to eight people , to typically have four wheels , and to be constructed principally for the transport of people rather than goods .
The term motorcar has also been used in the context of electrified rail systems to denote a car which functions as a small locomotive  लकिन भी provides स्पेस लिये यात्री  and baggage .
These locomotive cars were  प्रायः प्रयुक्त on suburban रूट by दोनो interurban और intercity  railroad systems .
it थी अनुमानित  in 2010 that the number of automobiles had risen to over 1 billion vehicles , up from the 500 million of 1986 .
The numbers are increasing rapidly  , विशेषकर  in China and India .
John Fitzgerald `` Jack '' Kennedy ( May 29 , 1917 – November 22 , 1963 ) , often  referred to by उसके आद्याक्षर jfk , थी the 35th अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य ,  serving from 1961 until his death in 1963 .
After military service as commander of the Motor  torpedo नौकाएँ pt-109 और pt-59 दौरान  World War II in the South Pacific , Kennedy represented Massachusetts ' 11th congressional district in the U.S. House of Representatives from 1947 to 1953 as a Democrat .
thereafter , he परोसा in the u.S.  Senate from 1953 until 1960 .
Kennedy defeated Vice President and Republican  प्रत्याशी रिचर्ड निक्सन in  the 1960 U.S. presidential election .
At 43 years of age , he is the youngest to  have महरूम निर्वाचित to the दफ्तर , the second-youngest अध्यक्ष  ( after Theodore Roosevelt ) , and the first person born in the 20th century to serve as president .
A Catholic , Kennedy is  the तभी non- प्रोटोस्टेंट अध्यक्ष  , and is the only president to have won a Pulitzer Prize .
Events during his presidency included the Bay of Pigs Invasion , the Cuban Missile Crisis , the building of the Berlin Wall , the Space Race , the  african-american सिविल अधिकारों गति , और जल्दी चरण of the  Vietnam War .
Therein , Kennedy increased the number of military advisers , special operation forces , and helicopters in an  प्रयत्न to कोर the स्प्रेड of साम्यवादी in दक्षिण ईस्ट एशिया .
The Kennedy  प्रशासन अपनाया the नीति of  the Strategic Hamlet Program which was implemented by the South Vietnamese government .
It involved  निश्चित मजबूर relocation , गाँव internment , और पृथक्करण  of rural South Vietnamese from the northern and southern communist insurgents .
Kennedy was assassinated on  नवम्बर 22 ,  1963 in Dallas , Texas .
Lee Harvey Oswald was charged with  the अपराधों , लकिन he थी शॉट और मारे by जोकर माणिक्य दो दिनों  later , before a trial could take place .
The FBI and the Warren Commission  officially concluded कि ओसवाल्ड थी the लोन  assassin .
However , the United States House Select Committee on Assassinations ( HSCA ) concluded  कि those investigations यहूद flawed  and that Kennedy was probably assassinated as the result of a conspiracy .
However , ABC News in their investigation , The Kennedy Assassination : Beyond Conspiracy ,  पुष्टि the निष्कर्षों of the वारेन आयोग ; having concluded  Oswald acted alone .
Kennedy 's controversial  विभाग of रक्षा tfx सेनानी bomber कार्यक्रम led to a congressional  investigation that lasted from 1963 to 1970 .
Since the 1960s information  concerning कैनेडी 's निजी  life has come to light .
Details of Kennedy 's health problems in which  he struggled have become बेहतर ज्ञात , विशेषकर चूंकि  the 1990s .
Although initially kept secret from the general  पब्लिक , रिपोर्ट्स of कैनेडी 's philandering have  garnered much press .
Kennedy ranks highly in public  राय दरजा of u.S.  presidents .
A Siemens MXL fire alarm control panel ( top ) and  ग्राफिक annunciator ( नीचे  ) for Potomac Hall , at James Madison University .
A Vigilant  vm-1 आग सचेतक कंट्रोल ईकाई ( facu  ) / autonomous control unit ( ACU ) with integrated voice evacuation and fire fighter telephone system .
manufactured by एडवर्ड्स  , A UTC F & S Company
A Fire Alarm Control Panel (  facp ) , or आग सचेतक कंट्रोल ईकाई ( facu ) , is the  controlling component of a Fire Alarm System .
The panel receives information from environmental sensors designed to detect changes associated with fire , monitors their  operational अखंडता और provides लिये स्वचालित कंट्रोल of उपकरण , और हस्तांतरण of सूचना जरुरी  to prepare the facility for fire based on a predetermined sequence .
The panel may also supply electrical  उर्जा to operate कोई संबद्ध सेंसर  , control , transmitter , or relay .
There are four basic  प्रकार of panels : coded panels , conventional  panels , addressable panels , and multiplex systems .
This is a list of the first music videos broadcast on MTV 's  पहला दिन , अगस्त 1 ,  1981 .
MTV 's first day on the air was rebroadcast on VH1  क्लासिक in 2006 और अपलोड onto youtube in 2010 ( हालांकि तभी the  first four hours were authentic ; the rest were edited VH1 rebroadcasts ) .
Bandaranaike International Airport ( BIA ) ( also known as Katunayake International  विमानक्षेत्र और कोलोन अंतरराष्ट्रीय विमानक्षेत्र ) is एक of the दो अंतरराष्ट्रीय  airports serving the city of Colombo , the other is Ratmalana International Airport .
Mattala Rajapaksa International Airport located in southern  नगर of hambantota is the अन्य अंतरराष्ट्रीय  airport in Sri Lanka .
Bandaranaike International  विमानक्षेत्र is स्तिथ in katunayake , 22 मील ( 35  km ) north of Colombo .
It is  administered by विमानक्षेत्र और विमानन सेवाएं  ( Sri Lanka ) Ltd .
It is the hub of SriLankan Airlines , the  नेशनल वाहक of श्री लंका , और mihin  Lanka , the budget airline of Sri Lanka .
Black Swan is a 2010 American psychological thriller and horror  फिल्मी निर्देशित by डैरेन aronofsky और अभिनीत  Natalie Portman , Vincent Cassel , and Mila Kunis .
The plot revolves around a  उत्पादन of tchaikovsky 's swan झील बैले  by a prestigious New York City company .
The production requires a ballerina to play the innocent and fragile White Swan , for which the committed dancer Nina ( Portman ) is a  पूर्ण अनुरूप , as खूब as the अंधेरा और कामुक ब्लैक swan ,  which are qualities embodied by the new arrival Lily ( Kunis ) .
Nina is overwhelmed by a feeling of immense pressure  जब वो पाता herself स्पर्धा लिये the भाग , causing उसके to खोना  her tenuous grip on reality and descend into a living nightmare .
Aronofsky conceived the premise  by connecting उसके viewings of a उत्पादन of swan झील साथ  an unrealized screenplay about understudies and the notion of being haunted by a double , similar to the folklore surrounding doppelgängers .
Aronofsky cites Fyodor Dostoyevsky 's `` The  दोगुना `` as another  inspiration for the film .
The director also considered Black Swan a  साथी टुकड़ा to उसके 2008 फिल्मी the पहलवान , साथ दोनो  films involving demanding performances for different kinds of art .
He and Portman first  discussed the प्रोजेक्ट in 2000 , और बाद a ब्रैड अनुलग्नक to सार्वभौमिक studios , ब्लैक swan  was produced in New York City in 2009 by Fox Searchlight Pictures .
पोर्टमैन और kunis प्रशिक्षित in बैले लिये अनेक महीने prior to फिल्मांकन , और notable आंकड़े इससे  the ballet world helped with film production to shape the ballet presentation .
The film premiered as the opening  फिल्मी लिये the 67th वेनिस अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Film Festival on September 1 , 2010 .
It had a limited release in the United States  starting दिसम्बर  3 , 2010 and opened nationwide on December 17 .
Black Swan received critical praise upon its  रिलीज , विशेषकर लिये पोर्टमैन 's प्रदर्शन और aronofsky 's दिशा , और थी a significant बक्सा दफ्तर कामयाबी  , grossing $ 329 million worldwide .
The film received five Academy  पुरस्कार nominations और पोर्टमैन जीती the  Best Actress award for the film , as well as many other Best Actress awards in several guilds and festivals , while Aronofsky was nominated for Best Director .
In addition , the film itself  प्राप्त a नामांकन  for Best Picture .
The world’s first ice-calorimeter , used in the winter of 1782-83 , by Antoine Lavoisier and Pierre-Simon Laplace , to determine the heat  शामिल in विभिन्न रासायनिक परिवर्तन ; calculations जिससे यहूद आधारित on जोसेफ ब्लैक ’s prior डिस्कवरी of  latent heat .
These  प्रयोग चिह्नित the न्यास  of thermochemistry .
A calorimeter ( from Latin calor , meaning heat ) is an object  प्रयुक्त लिये कैलोरीमिति , or the प्रक्रम of measuring the ऊष्मा of रासायनिक  reactions or physical changes as well as heat capacity .
Differential  स्कैनिंग calorimeters , समतापी  microcalorimeters , titration calorimeters and accelerated rate calorimeters are among the most common types .
A simple calorimeter just consists of a thermometer attached to a  मेटल संग्राहक पूरा of जल निलंबित ऊपर a  combustion chamber .
To find  the enthalpy बदलें प्रति mole of a पदार्थ a in a प्रतिक्रिया between दो substances a और  B , the substances are added to a calorimeter and the initial and final temperatures ( before the reaction started and after it has finished ) are noted .
Multiplying the temperature change by the mass and specific heat capacities of the substances gives a value for  the उर्जा दिए बंद or अवशोषित दौरान the  reaction .
Dividing the energy change by how many moles of A were present gives its enthalpy  बदलें of प्रतिक्रिया  .
This method  is प्रयुक्त primarily in अकादमिक  teaching as it describes the theory of calorimetry .
It does not account for the heat loss through the container or the heat capacity  of the थर्मामीटर और संग्राहक  itself .
In addition , the object placed inside the calorimeter  shows कि the वस्तुएँ transferred उनके ऊष्मा to the ऊष्मामापी और  into the liquid , and the heat absorbed by the calorimeter and the liquid is equal to the heat given off by the metals .
A pair of green  flip-flops
Flip-flops (  भी पुकारा zōri , thongs , jandals , or a किस्में of अन्य names throughout  the world ) are a type of open-toed sandal typically worn in casual situations , such as outside or at the beach .
They consist of a flat sole held loosely on the foot by a Y-shaped strap that passes between the  पहला और दूसरी toes और around either  side of the foot .
They may also be held to the foot with a single  डोरी over the सामने of the पैर  rather than a thong .
The name ``  flip-flop '' originated  because of the sound that is made by slapping between the sole of the foot and the floor when walking .
This style of footwear has been worn by the people of many cultures throughout the  संसार , originating as जल्दी as the प्राचीन  Egyptians in 4,000 B.C .
The modern flip-flop descends from the Japanese zōri , which became popular after  संसार युद्ध ii जब सैनिको returning to the संयुक्त राज्य brought उन्हें वापस .
They  became लोकप्रिय in कैज़ुअल जमावट दौरान the 1960s ,  1990s , and 2000s , and some varieties have even found their way into more formal attire , despite criticism .
the उपयोग of flip-flops can परिणाम  in many pains and injuries , including ankle sprains and broken bones .
Some individuals who walk for long  अवधि रपट पीड़ा in the फीट ,  ankles , and lower legs .
The lack of support provided by flip-flops often results in  over-pronation चोटों , caused by the पैर घुसते  inwards further than normal .
This can lead  to चपटा  feet and tendonitis .
Other injuries that may result are due  to the जूते 's open-toed प्रकृति , ऐसे  as stubbed toes , cuts , and bruises .
Doctors recommend purchasing pricier sandals with thick-cushioned  सोल्स , as खूब as those कि have a डोरी कि is नहीं कैनवास और  that comes back almost to the ankle .
The owners of  hanjin ओसाका , देखी यहाँ transiting the पनामा कनाल in 2008  , declared general average following an explosion in the ship 's engine room on .
The law of general average is a legal principle of  मेरीटाइम विधि according to जिससे सब पार्टियों in a समुद्र venture proportionally share  any losses resulting from a voluntary sacrifice of part of the ship or cargo to save the whole in an emergency .
In the exigencies of hazards faced at sea , crew members often have precious little time in  जिससे to determine precisely जिनकी कार्गो वे  are jettisoning .
Thus , to avoid quarrelling that could waste valuable time , there arose the equitable practice whereby all the merchants whose cargo landed safely  होता be पुकारा on to योगदान a portion , आधारित upon a share or प्रतिशत , to the व्यापारी or व्यापारियों जिनकी goods था  been tossed overboard to avert imminent peril .
While general  औसत traces इसके origins in प्राचीन मेरीटाइम  law , still it remains part of the admiralty law of most countries .
The first codification of general average was  the यॉर्क antwerp  Rules of 1890 .
American  कंपनियाँ स्वीकृत it  in 1949 .
General average requires three  तत्व जिससे हैं clearly stated  by Mr. Justice Grier in Barnard v. Adams:
``  1st .
A common danger :  a खतरे in जिससे पोत , कार्गो और क्रू सब participate ; a खतरे  imminent and apparently 'inevitable , ' except by voluntarily incurring the loss of a portion of the whole to save the remainder . ''
`` 2nd . There must be a voluntary jettison , jactus  , or ढलाई दूर , of कुछ portion of the संयुक्त चिंता लिये the purpose of बचने  this imminent peril , periculi imminentis evitandi causa , or , in other words , a transfer of the peril from the whole to a particular portion of the whole . ''
`` 3rd  .
This attempt to avoid  the निकट आम  peril must be successful '' .
Example Polish call for  टीकाकरण विरूद्ध डिप्थीरिया  and Tetanus .
A vaccination schedule is a  श्रेणी of vaccinations , सहित the समय of सब doses , जिससे may be either  recommended or compulsory , depending on the country of residence .
A vaccine is an antigenic preparation used to produce active immunity to a  बीमारी , in अनुक्रम to prevent or reduce the प्रभाव of संक्रमण by  any natural or `` wild '' pathogen .
Many vaccines require multiple doses for  अधिकतम प्रभावकारिता , either to उपज sufficient आरंभिक प्रतिरक्षा  response or to boost response that fades over time .
For example , tetanus vaccine  boosters हैं प्रायः अनुशंसित  every 10 years .
Vaccine schedules are developed by governmental agencies or physicians groups to achieve maximum effectiveness  using जरूरी और अनुशंसित टीके लिये a मोहल्ले  while minimizing the number of health care system interactions .
Over the past two decades , the recommended vaccination  अनुसूची रै grown rapidly और become अधिक जटिल as अनेक नई टीके  have been developed .
Some vaccines are recommended only in certain areas ( countries  , subnational क्षेत्रों , or at-risk  populations ) where a disease is common .
For instance , yellow fever vaccination is on the routine  टीका अनुसूची of फ्रेंच guiana , is अनुशंसित in निश्चित  regions of Brazil but in the United States is only given to travelers heading to countries with a history of the disease .
In developing countries , vaccine  सुझाव भी लो into खाता the स्तर of स्वास्थ्य परवाह अभिगम , the  cost of vaccines and issues with vaccine availability and storage .
Sample vaccinations schedules discussed by the World Health Organization show a developed country using a schedule which extends over the first five years of a child 's life  और उपयोग टीके जिससे लागत over $ 700 सहित प्रशासन लागत जबकि a विकासशील देश उपयोग a अनुसूची providing टीके in the पहला  9 months of life and costing only $ 25 .
This difference is due to the lower cost of health care , the lower cost of many vaccines provided to developing nations , and  कि अधिक महंगी टीके , प्रायः लिये कम आम रोगों , हैं नहीं utilized  .
In 1900 , the smallpox  टीका थी the तभी एक administered  to children .
By the early 1950s , children routinely received four vaccines , for protection against ( diphtheria  , pertussis , टेटनस , पोलियो , और smallpox  ) , and as many as five shots by two years of age .
Since the mid-1980s , many vaccines  have महरूम added to the अनुसूची  .
, the US Centers  लिये बीमारी कंट्रोल और रोकथाम ( सीडीसी ) अभी अनुशंसा  vaccination against at least fourteen diseases .
By two years of age , U.S. children receive as many as 24  टीका injections , और might प्राप्त up  to five shots during one visit to the doctor .
The use of combination vaccine products means that , , the United  किंगडम 's immunization कार्यक्रम consists of 10 injections by the आयु of दो  , rather than 25 if vaccination for each disease was given as a separate injection .
Two revellers dance  in the गलियों  .
The form of dancing is  पुकारा `` wining '' ( घुमावदार )  pronounced wine-ing
A Music Truck  entertains the भीड on the गलियों  .
Trucks are an  अभिन्न भाग of the गली परेड , featuring सजीव  performances or deejays
The Trinidad and Tobago  कार्निवल is an सालाना इवेंट आयोजित on the सोमवार और मंगलवार पहले राख बुधवार  , and is well known for participant 's colorful costumes and exuberant celebrations .
Carnival in Trinidad  और टोबैगो is the सबसे significant इवेंट on the आइलैंड्स ' सांस्कृतिक और पर्यटन  calendar , with numerous cultural events running in the lead up to the street parade on Carnival Monday and Tuesday .
It is said that if the islanders are not celebrating it , then they are preparing for it , while  reminiscing परिचय the  past year 's festival .
The heart of the musical celebration has been calypso ; recently soca  रै replaced  calypso as the most celebrated type of music .
Costumes , stickfighting and  limbo प्रतियोगिताओं  are also important components of the festival .
Carnival as it is celebrated in Trinidad and  टोबैगो is भी मनाये in शहरों  worldwide .
These including Toronto 's Caribana , Miami 's Miami Carnival , Houston  carifest , लंदन 's नॉटिंग हिल कार्निवल as खूब  as New York City 's Labor Day Carnival to name a few .
Carnival was created when West African slaves  mimicked उनके फ्रेंच स्वामी जो  where known for their lavish costumes balls .
Forbidden to  partake in ये festivities और confined  to their quarters , slaves combined elements from their own cultures to their master 's fete .
Hence the creation of characters such as Jab  jab or jab molassie ( शैतानों ) , मध्यरात्रि लुटेरों , imps , lagahroo  , Soucouyant , La Diablesse and Demons .
With  the abolition of गुलामी in 1838 , freed africans took  their version of Carnival to the streets through expression of drums , riddim sections like tamboo bamboo and as each new immigrant population entered Trinidad , Carnival evolved into what we know today .
The city of Chicago , Illinois held a nonpartisan  mayoral चुनाव on मंगलवार ,  February 22 , 2011 .
Incumbent Mayor Richard M. Daley , a member of the Democratic  पार्टी जो था महरूम in दफ्तर चूंकि 1989 , किया नहीं तलाश  a seventh term as mayor .
उम्मीदवार needed to collect 12,500 याचिका  signatures by November 22 , 2010 to qualify for a place on the ballot .
April 5 , 2011 was scheduled to be a  runoff चुनाव तिथि if no प्रत्याशी  received an absolute majority .
Rahm  emanuel जीती the रेस  for mayor with more than 55 % of the vote .
He was  उदघाटन on  May 16 , 2011 .
`` Pumped Up Kicks '' is a song by American indie pop  बैंड फोस्टर the लोगों  .
It  थी released as the समूह 's डेब्यू सिंगल in सितंबर  2010 , and the following year was included on their EP Foster the People and their debut album Torches .
`` Pumped  up kicks '' became the समूह  's breakthrough hit and was one of the most popular songs of 2011 .
The song was written and recorded by frontman  चिह्नित फोस्टर जबकि he थी  working as a commercial jingle writer .
Contrasting with the upbeat musical  संयोजन , the गीत describe the homicidal  thoughts of a troubled youth .
The track  प्राप्त considerable ध्यान बाद it थी posted ऑनलाइन in 2010 as a फ़्री डाउनलोड  , and it helped the group garner a multi-album record deal with Columbia Records imprint Startime International .
``  उत्तेजित up kicks '' proved to be a स्लीपर hit ; in 2011 ,  after receiving significant airplay on modern rock stations , the song crossed-over onto contemporary hit radio stations .
The song spent eight consecutive weeks at number three on the Billboard Hot 100 chart in the United States , making it the first Billboard  वैकल्पिक गीतों number-one सिंगल to क्रैक the u.S. शीर्ष 5 चूंकि किंग्स of लिओन 's `` उपयोग  Somebody `` in 2009 .
The song was widely  praised by आलोचकों , और it रै महरूम licensed  for use in a wide range of popular media since its release .
`` Pumped Up Kicks '' received a Grammy Award  नामांकन लिये बेहतरीन पॉप duo/group  Performance .
The State  मेला of वेस्ट वर्जिनिया is an सालाना  state fair for West Virginia .
It is held annually in mid-August on the State  fairgrounds in fairlea , निकट lewisburg , वेस्ट वर्जिनिया  in the southeastern part of the state .
The State Fairgrounds consists of a large open field for  carnivals और प्रदर्शनियों , a घोड़ा track , grandstands , और अनेक प्रदर्शनी  buildings .
Free parking is provided adjacent to the  fairgrounds और , जबतक 2006 , फ़्री कैंप थी भी उपलब्धियाँ in a  large field with running-water toilets and showers , but no hookups .
Campers are now  चार्ज a छोटी शुल्क  .
The White House , the  अध्यक्ष 's आधिकारिक निवास और बीच of the प्रशासन
Under the United States Constitution , the President of the United States is the head of state and head of  सरकारी of the संयुक्त राज्य  .
As chief of the executive branch and head of the federal government as a whole , the  प्रेसिडेंसी is the उच्चतम राजनैतिक दफ्तर in the संयुक्त राज्य by influence  and recognition .
The president is  भी the commander-in-chief  of the United States Armed Forces .
The president is indirectly elected to a four-year term by an  चुनावी कॉलेज ( or by the हाउस of प्रतिनिधि चाहिए the चुनावी कॉलेज  fail to award an absolute majority of votes to any person ) .
Since the ratification of the Twenty-second Amendment to the United States  संविधान in 1951 , no व्यक्ति may be निर्वाचित अध्यक्ष अधिक than twice , और no एक जो रै परोसा अधिक than दो सालो of a पद  to which someone else was elected may be elected more than once .
Upon the death , resignation , or removal from office  of an लाज़िम अध्यक्ष , the वाइस अध्यक्ष  assumes the office .
the अध्यक्ष जरूर be  at least 35 years of age and a `` natural born '' citizen of the United States .
This list includes only those persons who were sworn  into दफ्तर as अध्यक्ष following the अनुसमर्थन  of the United States Constitution , which took effect on March 4 , 1789 .
For American  नेताओ पहले इस अनुसमर्थन  , see President of the Continental Congress .
The list  करता नहीं शामिल कोई एक्टिंग  Presidents under the Twenty-fifth Amendment to the United States Constitution .
There have been 43 people sworn into office , and 44 presidencies , as Grover  क्लीवलैंड परोसा दो non-consecutive  terms and is counted chronologically as both the 22nd and 24th president .
Of the individuals elected as president , four died in office of natural causes ( William Henry Harrison , Zachary Taylor , Warren G. Harding , and Franklin D. Roosevelt ) , four were assassinated ( Abraham Lincoln , James A. Garfield ,  विलियम mckinley , और जॉन F. कैनेडी ) और एक resigned ( रिचर्ड  Nixon ) .
George Washington , the first  अध्यक्ष , थी उदघाटन in 1789 बाद a सर्वसम्मत  vote of the Electoral College .
William Henry Harrison spent the shortest time in office with 32 days in 1841 , and  फ्रैंकलिन D. रूज़वेल्ट खर्च the longest  with over twelve years , but died shortly into his fourth term in 1945 .
He is the only president to serve more than two terms , and a constitutional amendment , affecting presidents after Harry  ट्रूमैन , थी passed to सीमा the क्रमांक of टाइम्स an व्यक्तिगत can be निर्वाचित अध्यक्ष  .
Andrew Jackson , the seventh president , was the first to be elected by men of all classes in  1828 बाद सबसे कानून barring  non-land-owners from voting were repealed .
Warren Harding was the first  निर्वाचित बाद महिलाओं gained मतदान अधिकारों  in 1920 .
History records four presidents – John Q Adams , Rutherford B.  हेज़ , बेंजामिन हैरिसन और जार्ज W. बुश – जो खोया  the popular vote but assumed office .
John F.  कैनेडी रै महरूम the तभी अध्यक्ष  of Roman Catholic faith , and the current president , Barack Obama , is the first president of African descent .
`` Lombardi  ट्रॉफी '' redirects  here .
For the award awarded annually to the best  कॉलेज फ़ुटबॉल lineman or linebacker  , see Lombardi Award .
The Vince Lombardi Trophy is the trophy awarded each year to the winning team of the National  फ़ुटबॉल लीग 's चैंपियनशिप खेल , the सुपर कटोरी  .
The trophy  is नामित in सम्मान  of legendary NFL coach Vince Lombardi .
This is a list of tables of the verified oldest  लोगों in the संसार in ordinal  rank , such as oldest person or oldest man .
In these tables , a supercentenarian is considered 'verified ' if his or her claim has been validated by an international body that  specifically सौदे in आयु शोध , ऐसे as the जराविद्या  Research Group ( GRG ) or Guinness World Records .
The longest unambiguously documented human lifespan is that of Jeanne Calment of  फ़्रांस ( 1875–1997 ) , जो died at आयु 122 सालो  , 164 days .
She  मिले विंसेंट  van Gogh when she was 12 or 13 .
This led to news media attention in 1985  , बाद calment turned 110  .
Subsequent investigation  मिला दस्तावेज़ीकरण लिये calment 's आयु ,  beyond any reasonable question , in the records of her native city , Arles , France .
More evidence of Calment 's lifespan has been produced than for  कोई अन्य supercentenarian ; उसके मामला serves as an archetype in the methodology लिये  verifying the ages of the world 's oldest people .
The longest undisputed lifespan for male  supercentenarians is कि of jiroemon किमुरा , जो फिलहाल  lives in Japan and is age as of .
Since the death of  115-year बूढ़ा दीना manfredini of the संयुक्त राज्य , on 17 दिसम्बर 2012  , Kimura , born 19 April 1897 , is the oldest living person in the world whose age can be documented .
He has  भी महरूम the oldest जीना man चूंकि the मौत of 114-year बूढ़ा  Walter Breuning on 14 April 2011 .
Since the death of 115-year old Koto Okubo of Japan on 12  जनवरी 2013 , the oldest जीना स्त्री रै महरूम -year-old misao okawa , भी  from Japan , born on 5 March 1898 .
The People 's Court is an American  arbitration-based वास्तविकता अदालत दिखाएँ , फिलहाल presided over by रिटायर्ड  Florida State Circuit Court Judge Marilyn Milian , in which small claims disputes are handled .
The People 's Court is  the पहला अदालत दिखाएँ to उपयोग  binding arbitration , introducing the format into the genre in 1981 .
The system has been  duplicated by सबसे of the दिखाएँ 's successors  in the judicial genre .
Moreover , The People 's Court is the first popular ,  long-running वास्तविकता in the  judicial genre .
It was preceded  तभी by a few short-lived हकीकत in the विधा ; ये short-lived पूर्ववर्तियों यहूद तभी loosely  related to judicial proceedings , except for one : Parole ( 1959 ) took footage from real-life courtrooms holding legal proceedings .
Prior to The People 's  अदालत , the विशाल बहुमत of tv courtroom shows प्रयुक्त अभिनेताओं , और बनाई or fictional  cases ( as did radio before that ) .
Among  उदाहरण of ये प्रकार of  court shows include Famous Jury Trials and Your Witness .
The People 's  अदालत रै था दो चिहृ  lives .
The show 's first life was presided  over solely by पूर्व लॉस एंजिल्स काउंटी श्रेष्ठ  Court Judge Joseph Wapner .
His tenure lasted from the show 's debut on September  14 , 1981 , जबतक may 21 , 1993 , जब the दिखाएँ थी रद्द  due to low ratings .
This left the show with a total of 2,484 1⁄2-hour  एपीसोड और 12 सीज़न  .
the दिखाएँ थी taped  in Los Angeles during its first life .
After being  रद्द , reruns aired जबतक  September 9 , 1994 .
On September 8 , 1997 , after being out  of उत्पादन लिये चार सालो , the  People 's Court was revived for a second life in first-run syndication as a 60-minute program .
Former lawyer  और महापौर of नई यॉर्क ed koch थी चुनी as arbiter , जिससे he कायम लिये 2 सीज़न इससे the  1997–98 season through the 1998–99 season ( the present life 's 2nd season and overall show 's 14th ) .
By the 1999–00 season , husband of Judith Sheindlin ( who  presides over न्यायधीश जुडी ) और पूर्व नई यॉर्क राज्य परम् अदालत  Judge Jerry Sheindlin succeeded Koch .
Sheindlin lasted one and a  हाफ सीज़न as he थी replaced towards  the end of the 2000–01 season ( present life 's 4th season and overall show 's 17th ) .
Beginning in  वसन्त 2001 , फ्लोरिडा न्यायधीश मर्लिन milian took  over The People 's Court and has presided over the show ever since .
Once Milian completes the 2012–13 season , she will  have परोसा as longest  arbiter over the series with 12 and a half seasons .
As of the present , however ,  उसके सालो on the कार्यक्रम टाई wapner  at 12 seasons .
In the 2009-10  टेलीविज़न ऋतु , the लोगों 's न्यायालयों 2nd/present जीवन  outlasted its first when it reached 13 seasons .
While the show taped  in नई यॉर्क नगर लिये the पहला 15 सीज़न of  its second life , it now tapes in Stamford , Connecticut as of the 2012-13 season .
On  सितंबर 3 , 2012 , the लोगों 's अदालत 's 2nd/present  life entered its 16th season ( 28th overall season ) .
With 28 total seasons , The People 's Court ranks as the 2nd longest-running courtroom program behind the ongoing Divorce  अदालत at 33 सीज़न ( इससे इसके 3 संयुक्त जीवनदान )  .
Utah ( or ) ( Arapaho : Wo'tééneihí  ' ) is a राज्य in the पश्चिमी  United States .
It became  the 45th राज्य admitted to  the Union on January 4 , 1896 .
Utah is the  13th-largest , the 34th-most populous , और the  10th-least-densely populated of the 50 United States .
Approximately 80 % of Utah 's 2,817,222 people live along the Wasatch Front , centering on  नमक झील नगर , leaving विशाल expanses of the राज्य nearly uninhabited और बनाना  the population the sixth most urbanized in the U.S. Utah is bordered by Colorado on the east , Wyoming on the northeast , Idaho on the north , Arizona on the south , and Nevada on the west .
It also  छू a कोने of  New Mexico on the southeast .
Utah is the most religiously  समरूप राज्य in the संघ  .
Approximately 63 % of Utahns are reported to be members of The  गिरिजाघर of यीशु मसीह of latter-day संतो or lds ( mormons  ) , which greatly influences Utah culture and daily life .
The world headquarters of The  गिरिजाघर of यीशु मसीह of latter-day  Saints ( LDS Church ) is located in Utah 's state capital .
The state is a center of  परिवहन , शिक्षा , सूचना  technology and research , government services , mining , and a major tourist destination for outdoor recreation .
According to the U.S. Census Bureau 's population estimates , Utah is the  पांचवां fastest-growing राज्य in the संयुक्त राज्य as of  2012 .
St. George , was the fastest–growing  महानगर क्षेत्रफल in the संयुक्त राज्य इससे  2000 to 2005 .
A 2012 Gallup national survey found Utah overall to  be the `` बेहतरीन राज्य to सजीव in '' आधारित  on 13 forward-looking measurements including various economic , lifestyle , and health-related outlook metrics .
Coldwater is a small  कस्बा in टेट काउंटी  , Mississippi .
It  is in the मेम्फिस  Metropolitan Area .
The population was 1,674  at the 2000 जनसांख्यिकी  .
The hard palate is a  पतला आड़ा  bony plate of the skull , located in the roof of the mouth .
It spans the arch  formed by the  upper teeth .
It is  formed by the palatine प्रक्रम of the  maxilla and horizontal plate of palatine bone .
it फ़ॉर्म a विभाजन between the  nasal passages and the mouth .
Also on the anterior portion of the roof of the hard palate is the Rugae which are the irregular ridges in the mucous  झिल्ली कि सहायता सुकर the गति of खाना पीछे towards the pharynx  .
इस विभाजन is जारी  deeper into the mouth by a fleshy extension called the soft palate .
Complete set of scrolls ,  constituting the संपूर्ण tanakh  .
The Tanakh ( , or ;  भी tenakh , tenak , tanach ) is a नाम  used in Judaism for the canon of the Hebrew Bible .
the tanakh is भी ज्ञात as  the Masoretic Text or the Miqra .
The name is an acronym formed from the initial Hebrew letters of  the masoretic टेक्स्ट 's तीन परंपरागत subdivisions : the तोरा ( `` शिक्षण '' , भी  known as the Five Books of Moses ) , Nevi'im ( `` Prophets '' ) and Ketuvim ( `` Writings '' ) —hence TaNaKh .
The name ``  miqra '' ( מקרא ) , अर्थ `` कि जिससे is पढ़ा  '' , is an alternative Hebrew term for the Tanakh .
The  किताबे of the tanakh यहूद relayed साथ an accompanying मौखिक  tradition passed on by each generation , called the Oral Torah .
गम्भीरता नाका  in Germany
Driving under the influence ( DUI ) , driving while intoxicated ( DWI ) ,  शराबी ड्राइविंग , नशे ड्राइविंग , पेय ड्राइविंग , ऑपरेटिंग अंतर्गत the influence , पीने और ड्राइविंग , or impaired  driving is the crime of driving a motor vehicle with blood levels of alcohol in excess of a legal limit ( `` Blood Alcohol Content '' , or `` BAC '' ) .
Similar regulations  कवर ड्राइविंग or ऑपरेटिंग निश्चित प्रकार of मशीनरी जबकि प्रभावित by पीने  alcohol or taking other drugs , including , but not limited to prescription drugs .
This is a  दण्ड ठोकर in  most nations .
Convictions do not  necessarily involve वास्तविक ड्राइविंग of  the vehicle .
In most jurisdictions a measurement such as a blood alcohol content ( BAC ) in  excess of a विशिष्ट दहलीज स्तर , ऐसे as 0.05 % or 0.08 % defines  the offense , with no need to prove impairment or being under the influence of alcohol .
In some jurisdictions , there is an aggravated category of the  ठोकर at a उच्चतर स्तर e.g . 0.12 % .
In most countries , anyone who is convicted of injuring or killing someone while under the influence of alcohol or drugs can be  heavily fined , as in फ़्रांस , in जोड to होने दिए a lengthy थाना  sentence .
Some jobs have their own  नियम और bac हद , लिये उदाहरण वाणिज्यिक पायलट  , and the Federal Railroad Administration in the United States has a 0.04 % limit for train crew .
Some jurisdictions have multiple levels of BAC ;  लिये उदाहरण , the राज्य of कैलिफ़ोर्निया रै a 0.08 % bac सीमा , जिससे is lowered to 0.04 % if the ऑपरेटर  holds a commercial driver 's license .
The California BAC  सीमा is 0.01 % लिये those younger than 21 सालो of आयु और those  on probation for a previous DUI conviction .
Some large corporations have  उनके अपना नियम ; संघ प्रशांत रेलरोड रै उनके अपना bac सीमा of 0.02 % कि , if violated दौरान a यादृच्छिक परीक्षण or  a for-cause test — for example , after a traffic accident — can result in termination of employment with no chance of future re-hire .
अनेक राज्य in the u.S. और प्रांतों in कनाडा have अपनाया सच्चाई in sentencing कानून  that enforce strict guidelines on sentencing , differing from previous practice where prison time was reduced or suspended after sentencing had been issued .
Some  jurisdictions have न्यायिक  guidelines requiring a mandatory minimum sentence .
Penalties for DUI charges range from expensive  शुल्क to forfetiruree of अपना अनुज्ञा प्लेटों और  in some serious circumstances , your vehicle .
A  नशे ड्राइविंग सिम्युलेटर  in Montréal , Canada
The specific criminal  ठोकर may be पुकारा , depending on the क्षेत्राधिकार , ड्राइविंग अंतर्गत the influence [ of दारू or अन्य दवाएँ ] ( dui ) , ड्राइविंग अंतर्गत तीव्र influence ( duii ) , ड्राइविंग जबकि intoxicated ( dwi ) , ऑपरेटिंग  under the influence ( OUI ) operating while intoxicated ( OWI ) , operating a motor vehicle while intoxicated ( OMVI ) , driving under the combined influence of alcohol and/or other drugs , driving under the influence per se or drunk in charge [ of a vehicle ] .
Many such laws apply also to motorcycling , boating , piloting aircraft ,  उपयोग of motile फार्म उपकरण ऐसे as tractors और combines , सवारी घोड़े  or driving a horse-drawn vehicle , or bicycling , possibly with different BAC level than driving .
In some jurisdictions there are separate charges depending on the vehicle used , such  as bwi ( bicycling जबकि intoxicated ) , जिससे may carry a हल्का  sentence .
In the United States , local law enforcement agencies made 1,467,300 arrests nationwide for driving under the influence of alcohol in 1996 ,  compared to 1.9 लाख ऐसे रखवाले दौरान the शिखर साल  in 1983 .
In 1997 an estimated 513,200 DWI  अपराधियों यहूद in थाना  or jail , down from 593,000 in 1990 and up from 270,100 in 1986 .
Officers from US  कस्टम और किनारा सुरक्षा बोर्डिंग a जलयान
Law enforcement in the United States is one of three  प्रमुख components of the दण्ड इंसाफ प्रणाली of  the United States , along with courts and corrections .
Although there exists an inherent interrelatedness between the different groups that make up the criminal justice system based on their crime  deterrence purpose , प्रत्येक घटक operates independently इससे एक another  .
However , the judiciary  is vested साथ the शक्ति to मेक विधिक determinations regarding  the conduct of the other two components .
Apart from maintaining order and service functions , the purpose  of policing is the  investigation of suspected criminal activity and the referral of the results of investigations and of suspected criminals to the courts .
Law enforcement , to varying degrees at different levels of government and in different agencies , is  भी commonly चार्ज साथ the जिम्मेदारियों of deterring दण्ड कार्यकलाप और of preventing the कामयाब आयोग of अपराधों in प्रगति ; the सेवा और प्रवर्तन  of warrants , writs and other orders of the courts .
Law enforcement agencies are also  शामिल in providing पहला जवाब to emergencies और अन्य खतरे to पब्लिक  safety ; the protection of certain public facilities and infrastructure ; the maintenance of public order ; the protection of public officials ; and the operation of some correctional facilities ( usually at the local level ) .
Elmer Figueroa Arce ( born June 28 , 1968 ) , best  ज्ञात अंतर्गत the स्टेज नाम chayanne , is  a Puerto Rican Latin pop singer and actor .
As a solo artist ,  chayanne रै  released 21 solo albums and sold over 15 million albums worldwide .
`` World War Hulk '' is a comic book crossover storyline that ran through a self titled  सीमित श्रेणी और विभिन्न अन्य शीर्षक प्रकाशित by आश्चर्य कॉमिक्स  in 2007 , featuring the Hulk .
The series consists of five main issues titled World War Hulk , with Greg Pak as writer and John Romita , Jr.  as penciller , और तीन अन्य सीमित श्रेणी : संसार युद्ध हल्क :  Front Line , World War Hulk : Gamma Corps , and World War Hulk : X-Men .
It  भी भागा through अनेक  other Marvel comics series .
The plot is the culmination of a series of events that began with the Hulk  होने tricked into स्पेस by the illuminati और a जीवन मॉडल decoy of उपनाम फ़्यूरी , the हल्क 's subsequent  exile seen in Planet Hulk and his imminent return to Earth to seek revenge on the Illuminati .
Marion Mitchell  मॉरिसन ( born marion रॉबर्ट मॉरिसन ; may 26 , 1907 – जून 11 , 1979 ) , बेहतर ज्ञात  by his stage name John Wayne , was an American film actor , director and producer .
An Academy Award -winner ,  वेन थी among the शीर्ष बक्सा दफ्तर draws लिये तीन  decades , and was named the all-time top money-making star .
An enduring American icon , he epitomized rugged masculinity and is famous  लिये उसके demeanor , सहित उसके distinctive शांत  voice , walk , and height .
Wayne was born in Winterset , Iowa but his family relocated to the  वृहद लॉस एंजिल्स क्षेत्रफल जब he थी  four years old .
He found work at local film studios  जब he खोया उसके फ़ुटबॉल स्कॉलरशिप to यूएससी  as a result of a bodysurfing accident .
initially working लिये the फॉक्स फिल्मी निगम  , he mostly appeared in small bit parts .
His first leading role came in the widescreen  एपिक the बिग ट्रेल ( 1930 ) , जिससे led to अग्रणी भूमिकाएँ in numerous  films throughout the 1930s , many of them in the western genre .
His career rose to further heights in 1939 ,  साथ जॉन घाट 's stagecoach बनाना उसे an  instant superstar .
Wayne would go on to star in 142  तस्वीरें , primarily  typecast in Western films .
Among his best known later films are The Quiet Man ( 1952 ) , which follows him as an Irish-American boxer and his love affair with a fiery spinster played by Maureen O'Hara ; The Searchers ( 1956 ) , in which he plays a  सिविल युद्ध दिग्गज जो seeks आउट उसके abducted भांजी ; रिओ ब्रावो ( 1959 ) , playing a शेरिफ साथ डीन मार्टिन ; सच्चा grit ( 1969 ) , playing a humorous u.s . मार्शल जो सेट आउट to avenge a man 's मौत in the भूमिका कि जीती वेन an अकादमी  Award ; and The Shootist ( 1976 ) , his final screen performance in which he plays an aging gunslinger battling cancer .
Wayne moved to Orange County , California in the 1960s ,  और थी a prominent रिपब्लिकन in हॉलीवुड , supporting  anti-communist positions .
He  died of पेट कर्कट  in 1979 .
In June 1999  , the अमरीकी फिल्मी संस्थान नामित वेन 13th  among the Greatest Male Screen Legends of All Time .
Galileo  गैलिली ( ; 15 फ़रवरी 1564 – 8 जनवरी 1642 ) , थी an इतालवी physicist , गणितज्ञ  , astronomer , and philosopher who played a major role in the Scientific Revolution .
उसके उपलब्धियाँ शामिल सुधार to the  telescope and consequent astronomical observations and support for Copernicanism .
Galileo has been called the `` father of modern observational astronomy `` , the `` father of modern physics  `` , the `` पिता of विज्ञान '' , और `` the पिता of आधुनिक  Science '' .
His contributions to observational astronomy include the telescopic confirmation of the phases of Venus , the discovery of the four largest  satellites of बृहस्पति ( नामित the galilean moons in उसके इज्ज़त ) , और the अवलोकन और विश्लेषण  of sunspots .
Galileo also worked in applied science and technology , inventing an improved  सैन्य कम्पास और अन्य यंत्र  .
Galileo 's championing of heliocentrism was controversial within his lifetime , when most  subscribed to either geocentrism  or the Tychonic system .
He met with  विपक्ष इससे खगोलशास्त्रियों , जो doubted heliocentrism  due to the absence of an observed stellar parallax .
The matter was investigated by the Roman Inquisition in 1615 , and they concluded that it  could be समर्थित as तभी a सम्भावना , नहीं an स्थापित फैक्ट  .
Galileo later defended his views in Dialogue  concerning the दो मुख्य संसार प्रणालियों , जिससे appeared to आक्रमण पोप शहरी viii और यूँ  alienated him and the Jesuits , who had both supported Galileo up until this point .
He was tried by the Inquisition , found `` vehemently suspect of heresy '' ,  मजबूर  to recant , and spent the rest of his life under house arrest .
It was while Galileo was under house arrest that he wrote one of his finest  works , दो नई sciences , in जिससे he summarised the कार्य he था किया कुछ चालीस सालो पहले , on the दो sciences अभी पुकारा  kinematics and strength of materials .
55 '' LG OLED TV showcased  at ces 2012
Prototype OLED lighting  फलक विकसित  by Lumiotec
Demonstration of a  लचीली oled यंत्र
an oled ( सशुल्क light-emitting डायोड ) is a light-emitting डायोड ( led ) in  which the emissive electroluminescent layer is a film of organic compound which emits light in response to an electric current .
This  परत of सशुल्क सेमीकंडक्टर  is situated between two electrodes .
generally , at तनिक एक  of these electrodes is transparent .
OLEDs are used to create digital displays in devices such as  टेलीविज़न screens , कंप्यूटर मॉनीटर , पोर्टेबल  systems such as mobile phones , handheld games consoles and PDAs .
A major area of research is the development of white  oled डिवाइस लिये उपयोग in solid-state lighting अनुप्रयोग  .
There are two main families  of oleds : those आधारित on छोटी अणुओं  and those employing polymers .
Adding  मोबाईल ions to an oled creates a light-emitting electrochemical  cell or LEC , which has a slightly different mode of operation .
OLED displays can use  either passive-matrix ( pmoled )  or active-matrix addressing schemes .
Active-matrix OLEDs ( AMOLED  ) आवश्यकता a thin-film ट्रांजिस्टर backplane to स्विच प्रत्येक व्यक्तिगत  pixel on or off , but allow for higher resolution and larger display sizes .
An OLED display  works बगैर  a backlight .
यूँ , it can प्रदर्शक गहन ब्लैक  levels and can be thinner and lighter than a liquid crystal display ( LCD ) .
In low ambient light  शर्तें ऐसे as a अंधेरा रूम an oled स्क्रीन can achieve a  higher contrast ratio than an LCD , whether the LCD uses cold cathode fluorescent lamps or LED backlight .
A carton and a glass of eggnog from Montreal , Canada , showing its French facade ( English reverse ) and the French term  लेत de poule ( वस्तुतः , `` मुर्गी 's मिल्क '' )
Eggnog , or egg nog , is a  sweetened दुग्ध -आधारd पेय traditionally बना साथ मिल्क and/or  cream , sugar , and whipped eggs ( which gives it a frothy texture ) .
ब्रांडी , rum , व्हिस्की , bourbon , वोदका , or a संयोजन  of liquors are often added .
The finished serving is  प्रायः garnished साथ a sprinkling of  ground cinnamon or nutmeg .
It was also  ज्ञात as the अंडा मिल्क  punch .
Eggnog  is a लोकप्रिय पेय throughout the संयुक्त  States and Canada , and is usually associated with Christmas .
Eggnog may be added as a flavoring to food  or पेय ऐसे as कॉफी और चाय .
Eggnog as a custard can also be  प्रयुक्त as an बर्फ मलाई  base .
A pasty ( , ) , ( sometimes known in Britain as a Cornish pasty , and in the United States as a pastie or British pasty ) is a baked pastry , a  परंपरागत किस्में of जिससे is विशेषकर  associated with Cornwall , the westernmost county in England .
It is made by placing uncooked filling typically of meat and vegetables , without meat in vegetarian versions ,  on a चपटा पेस्ट्री वृत्त और फोल्डिंग it to रैप the भरना , crimping the  edge to form a seal .
After baking , the result is a  उठाया semicircular  comestible .
The traditional Cornish pasty ,  जिससे रै सुरक्षित भौगोलिक indication ( pgi ) औकात in यूरोपीय , is भर साथ बीफ , sliced or  diced potato , swede ( also known as a yellow turnip or rutabaga – referred to in Cornwall as turnip ) and onion , seasoned with salt and pepper , and is baked .
Today , the pasty is the food most associated with Cornwall , it is  regarded as the नेशनल डिश , और it खाते  for 6 % of the Cornish food economy .
Pasties with many different fillings are made ; some shops specialise in  selling सब sorts of pasties  .
The origins of the pasty are unclear , though there are many  सन्दर्भ to उन्हें throughout ऐतिहासिक दस्तावेज़ और fiction  .
The pasty is now  लोकप्रिय world-wide due to the स्प्रेड of cornish खनिक  , and variations can be found in Australia , the United States , Mexico and elsewhere .
The ( ortho- ) sympathetic nervous system ( SNS ) is one of three major parts of  the autonomic बेचैन प्रणाली : the अन्य होने  the enteric and parasympathetic systems .
Its general action is  to mobilize the देह 's  nervous system fight-or-flight response .
It is  , however , constantly क्रियाशील at a मौलिक  level to maintain homeostasis .
Secure Digital or ( SD ) is a  non-volatile मेमोरी कार्ड स्वरूप लिये उपयोग in  portable devices , such as mobile phones , digital cameras , GPS navigation devices , and tablet computers .
The Secure Digital standard is  कायम by the sd  Card Association ( SDA ) .
SD technologies have been implemented in  अधिक than 400 ब्रांड्स आरपार दर्जनों of उत्पाद  categories and more than 8,000 models .
The Secure Digital format includes four card  परिवारों उपलब्धियाँ in  three different form factors .
The four families are the original Standard-Capacity (  sdsc ) , the high-capacity ( sdhc ) , the extended-capacity  ( SDXC ) , and the SDIO , which combines input/output functions with data storage .
The three form factors are the original size , the  `` मिनी '' आकार , और the `` सूक्ष्म '' आकार  ( see illustration ) .
There are many  combinations of रूप कारकों और यंत्र  families .
Electrically  passive adapters allow the उपयोग  of a smaller card in a host device built to hold a larger card .
Host devices that comply with newer versions of the specification provide backward  संगतता और accept पुरानी sd ताश , लकिन इस आलेख explains अनेक कारकों कि can  prevent the use of a newer SD card:
A newer card may  प्रस्ताव वृहद  capacity than the host device can handle .
A newer card may use a file system the host  यंत्र can नहीं navigate  .
उपयोग of an sdio कार्ड requires the मेजबान  device be designed for the input/output functions the card provides .
The  संगठन of the कार्ड थी बदला  starting with the SDHC family .
Some  विक्रेता उत्पादित sdsc ताश ऊपर 1 gb पहले the sda  had standardized a method of doing so .
The SDA uses several trademarked logos to enforce  अनुपालन साथ इसके विशेषताएँ और assure  users of compatibility .
The  following is a  List of critics of the New Deal .
Daniel Lawrence Whitney ( born February 17 , 1963 ) best known by his stage name and character Larry the Cable Guy , is an  अमरीकी stand-up हास्य , कर्ता , देश म्यूज़िक कलाकार , आवाज़ कर्ता ,  and former radio personality .
He was one of the members of the  ब्लू कॉलर कॉमेडी दौरे , a कॉमेडी troupe जिससे शामिल विधेयक engvall  , Ron White , and Jeff Foxworthy ( with whom he has starred on Blue Collar TV ) .
Whitney has released seven  कॉमेडी एल्बम , of जिससे तीन have  been certified gold by the RIAA for shipments of 500,000 copies .
In addition , he has starred in three Blue Collar Comedy Tour-related movies , as  खूब as in the films लैरी the केबल guy : स्वास्थ्य  Inspector , Delta Farce , and Witless Protection , as well as voicing Mater in the Cars franchise .
Whitney 's  catchphrase : `` git-r-done  ! '' is also the title of his book .
On January 26 , 2010 , the TV  चैनल इतिहास घोषित कि it थी ordering a श्रेणी अभिनीत व्हिटनी पुकारा तभी in अमेरिका साथ लैरी the  Cable Guy , in which he would explore the country and immerse himself in different lifestyles , jobs , and hobbies .
The  पहला एपीसोड of the श्रेणी aired  on February 8 , 2011 .
Vitamin D is a group of fat-soluble  secosteroids जिम्मेदार लिये intestinal अवशोषण of कैल्सियम  and phosphate .
In humans , the most important related  यौगिकों of विटामिन d हैं विटामिन d2 और विटामिन  D3 .
Cholecalciferol ( vitamin D3 ) and ergocalciferol ( vitamin D2 ) are unique as they  constitute कया we जान as विटामिन d और can be ingested इससे the  diet and/or supplements .
The  देह can भी synthesize विटामिन d ( इससे कोलेस्ट्रॉल  ) when sun exposure is adequate ( hence its nickname , the `` sunshine vitamin '' ) .
Although vitamin D is commonly  पुकारा a विटामिन , it is नहीं दरअसल an अनिवार्य dietary विटामिन in the सख्त भाव , as it  can be synthesized in adequate amounts by most mammals exposed to sunlight .
( Cats  और कुत्तो can नहीं synthesize  vitamin D efficiently and must receive it in their diet . )
An organic chemical compound ( or related set of compounds ) is only scientifically called a vitamin when it can not be  synthesized in sufficient quantities by an सजीव , और जरूर be प्राप्त इससे उनके  diet .
However , as with other  यौगिकों commonly पुकारा विटामिन , विटामिन d थी खोजा  in an effort to find the dietary substance that was lacking in a disease , namely , rickets , the childhood form of osteomalacia .
Additionally , like other compounds called vitamins , in the developed world vitamin D  is added to स्टेपल भोजन , ऐसे as मिल्क , to avoid बीमारी  due to deficiency .
Measures of serum levels reflect endogenous synthesis from exposure to sunlight as well as  सेवन इससे the आहार , और it is believed कि संश्लेषण may योगदान generally to the मेंटेनेंस of पर्याप्त  serum concentrations .
The evidence indicates that the synthesis of vitamin D from sun exposure works in a feedback loop that prevents toxicity but , because of  अनिश्चितता परिचय the कर्कट रिस्क इससे धूप , no सुझाव हैं जारी by the संस्थान of आयुर्विज्ञान , यूएसए , लिये the राशि of सूर्य  exposure required to meet vitamin D requirements .
Accordingly , the Dietary Reference Intakes for  विटामिन d assume  that no synthesis occurs and that all of a person 's vitamin D is from their diet , although that will rarely occur in practice .
In the liver vitamin D is converted to calcidiol , which is also known as calcifediol ( INN ) , 25-hydroxycholecalciferol , or 25-hydroxyvitamin D—abbreviated 25 ( OH ) D ; and which is the specific vitamin D  metabolite कि is measured in सीरम  to determine a person 's vitamin D status .
Part of the calcidiol is  परिवर्तित by the गुर्दे to calcitriol , the biologically क्रियाशील रूप of विटामिन D. calcitriol circulates as a हार्मोन in the रक्त ,  regulating the concentration of calcium and phosphate in the bloodstream and promoting the healthy growth and remodeling of bone .
Calcidiol is also converted to calcitriol outside of the kidneys for other purposes , such as the proliferation ,  differentiation और apoptosis of कोशिकाएं ; calcitriol  also affects neuromuscular function and inflammation .
Beyond its use to prevent osteomalacia or rickets , the evidence for other health effects of  विटामिन d supplementation in the सामान्य जनसांख्यिकी is असंगत  .
The best evidence of benefit is for  अस्थि स्वास्थ्य और a घटी in मृत्यु  in elderly women .
Standard form of  the आवधिक तालिका  .
The colors  represent अलग श्रेणी of तत्व  explained below .
The periodic table is a tabular display of the chemical  तत्व , व्यवस्थित on the आधार of उनके परमाणु संख्याएँ , इलेक्ट्रॉन configurations  , and recurring chemical properties .
Elements are presented in order of increasing atomic  क्रमांक ( क्रमांक of protons ) .
The standard form of  तालिका comprises an 18 × 7 ग्रिड or प्रमुख देह of  elements , positioned above a smaller double row of elements .
The table can also be deconstructed into four rectangular blocks : the s-block to the left ,  the p-block to the सही , the d-block in the मध्य , और the f-block  below that .
The rows of the table are called periods ; the columns of the s- , d- , and p-blocks  हैं पुकारा समूह , साथ कुछ  of these having names such as the halogens or the noble gases .
Since , by definition , a periodic table incorporates recurring trends , any such table can be used  to derive संबंध between the गुण of the तत्व और भविष्यवाणी the गुण  of new , yet to be discovered or synthesized , elements .
As a result , a periodic table—whether in the standard form or some other variant—provides a useful framework for analyzing chemical  बर्ताव , और ऐसे टेबल हैं widely प्रयुक्त in रसायन और अन्य sciences  .
Although precursors exist ,  dmitri mendeleev is generally  credited with the publication , in 1869 , of the first widely recognized periodic table .
he विकसित उसके तालिका to illustrate आवधिक रुझान  in the properties of the then-known elements .
Mendeleev also  पूर्वानुमानित कुछ गुण of then-unknown तत्व  that would be expected to fill gaps in this table .
Most of his predictions were proved correct when  the तत्व in सवाल यहूद subsequently  discovered .
Mendeleev 's periodic table has since been expanded and refined with the discovery or synthesis of further new elements and the  विकास of नई सैद्धांतिक मॉडल to बताइये रासायनिक  behavior .
All elements from atomic numbers 1 ( hydrogen ) to 118 (  ununoctium ) have महरूम खोजा or synthesized  .
The elements from 1 to 98 ( californium ) have been found to exist  naturally , हालांकि कुछ हैं मिला तभी in ट्रेस amounts और यहूद initially  discovered by synthesis in laboratories .
The  तत्व बाद 98 have तभी  been synthesized in laboratories .
Production of elements beyond  ununoctium is होने धड़ा , साथ the  question of how the periodic table may need to be modified to accommodate any such additions being a matter of ongoing debate .
Numerous synthetic radionuclides of naturally  occurring तत्व have भी महरूम उत्पादित in laboratories  .
Minimum wage by U.S. state and U.S.  territory ( अमरीकी समोआ , गुआम , प्यूर्टो  Rico , Virgin Islands ) , as of Jan. 1 , 2013 .
In the United States , workers are  generally हकदार to be सशुल्क no कम than the statutory  minimum wage .
The federal government mandates a nationwide minimum wage level of $ 7.25 per hour , while some  राज्य और municipalities have नियत न्यूनतम मजदूरी स्तर उच्चतर than the संघीय स्तर , साथ the उच्चतम राज्य न्यूनतम  wage being $ 9.19 per hour in Washington as of 2013 .
Among those paid by the hour  in 2012 , 1.6 लाख यहूद reported  as earning exactly the prevailing federal minimum wage .
About 2.0 million  यहूद reported as कमाई मजदूरी  below the minimum .
Together , these 3.6 million  मजदूर साथ मजदूरी at or नीचे  the minimum made up 4.7 percent of all hourly-paid workers .
A selection of Bourbons and Tennessee  whiskeys offered at a liquor स्टोर in decatur  , Georgia
Evan Williams  bourbon whiskey
Bourbon whiskey is a  प्रकार of अमरीकी whiskey – a barrel-aged  distilled spirit made primarily from corn .
The name of the spirit derives from its historical association with an area known as Old Bourbon , around  कया is अभी bourbon काउंटी , केंटकी ( जिससे , in फेरे , थी नामित बाद the फ्रेंच  House of Bourbon royal family ) .
It has been produced since  the 18th सदी  .
While it may be made anywhere in the United States , it  is strongly संबद्ध साथ the अमरीकी दक्षिण in सामान्य  , and Kentucky in particular .
The Mona Lisa ( La Gioconda or La Joconde ) is a half-length portrait of a woman by the Italian artist Leonardo da Vinci , which has been acclaimed as `` the best  ज्ञात , the सबसे visited , the सबसे लिखा परिचय , the सबसे सुंग परिचय , the सबसे parodied कार्य of आर्ट in the संसार .  ''
The painting , thought to be a  पोर्ट्रेट of लिसा gherardini , the बीवी of francesco डेल giocondo , is in आयल on a poplar फलक , और  is believed to have been painted between 1503 and 1506 .
It was acquired  by किंग फ्रांसिस i of फ़्रांस और is अभी the प्रॉपर्टी  of the French Republic , on permanent display at the Musée du Louvre in Paris since 1797 .
The ambiguity of the subject 's expression , which is frequently described as enigmatic , the monumentality of the composition , the subtle modeling of forms  और the वायुमंडलीय illusionism यहूद अनोखा qualities कि have contributed  to the continuing fascination and study of the work .
Robert  एलन पामर ( 19 जनवरी 1949 – 26  September 2003 ) , was an English singer-songwriter and musician .
He was known for his distinctive voice and the eclectic mix of  musical शैलियाँ on उसके एल्बम , combining आत्मा  , jazz , rock , pop , reggae and blues .
he मिला कामयाबी दोनो in उसके सोलो करियर  and in the musical act The Power Station , and had Top 10 songs in both the UK and the US .
His iconic music videos by Terence Donovan for the hits ``  आदी to प्रेम `` और `` बस irresistible `` प्रदर्शित identically वेश नाचना  women with pale faces , dark eye makeup and bright red lipstick , which resembled the women in the art of Patrick Nagel , an artist popular in the 1980s .
sharp-suited , उसके भागीदारी in the म्यूज़िक उद्योग  commenced in the 1960s , covered five decades and included a spell with Vinegar Joe .
Palmer received a number  of पुरस्कार throughout उसके करियर , सहित दो ग्रैमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन पुरूष चट्टान गायन प्रदर्शन  , an MTV Video Music Award , and was twice nominated for the Brit Award for Best British Male .
Computed tomography angiography ( CTA ) is a computed tomography  तकनीक प्रयुक्त to visualize arterial और venous बरतन throughout  the body .
This ranges from arteries serving the brain to those bringing blood to  the फेफड़े , गुर्दे , बाहें  and legs .
The Champs-Élysées  सजा साथ  flags for Bastille Day
Horseman of the French  रिपब्लिकन गार्ड दौरान the 2007 सैन्य परेड  on the Champs-Élysées .
Prise de la Bastille by  jean-pierre-louis-laurent houel
Bastille Day is the name given in  english-speaking देशों to the फ्रेंच  National Day , which is celebrated on the 14th of July each year .
In France , it is formally  पुकारा la fête nationale ( ; the नेशनल जश्न ) और  commonly Le quatorze juillet ( ; the fourteenth of July ) .
It commemorates the 1790 Fête de la Fédération , held on the first anniversary of  the storming of the bastille on 14 जुलाई 1789 ; the वर्षगांठ of the storming of the bastille fortress-prison  was seen as a symbol of the uprising of the modern nation , and of the reconciliation of all the French inside the constitutional monarchy which preceded the First Republic , during the French Revolution .
Festivities and official ceremonies are  आयोजित सब over फ़्रांस  .
The oldest and largest regular military parade  in यूरोपीय is आयोजित on the morning of 14 जुलाई , on the champs-élysées  avenue in Paris in front of the President of the Republic , French officials and foreign guests .
The United States of America ( USA or U.S.A. ) , commonly called the United States ( US or U.S. ) or America , is a federal  गणतंत्र consisting of पचास राज्य और a संघीय ज़िला  .
The lower forty-eight contiguous states and the federal district of  वॉशिंगटन , d.C. हैं in सेंट्रल उत्तर अमेरिका between कनाडा और मैक्सिको  .
The state of Alaska is  वेस्ट of कनाडा और ईस्ट of रूस आरपार the बेरिंग जलसन्धि  , and the state of Hawaii is in the mid-North Pacific .
The country also has five  आबादी और नौ unpopulated territories  in the Pacific and the Caribbean .
At 3.79 million square miles ( 9.83  लाख km2 ) और साथ around 315 लाख लोगों , the संयुक्त राज्य is the  third- or fourth-largest country by total area and the third-largest by both land area and population .
It is one  of the संसार 's सबसे ethnically विविध और multicultural  nations , the product of large-scale immigration from many countries .
The geography and climate of the U.S. is also  अत्यधिक विविध , साथ रेगिस्तान , मैदान , वनों , और kyu कि  are home to a wide variety of species .
Paleoindians  migrated इससे एशिया to कया is अभी  the United States mainland around 15,000 years ago .
After 1500 ,  बूढ़ा संसार रोगों introduced by europeans  greatly reduced their populations .
European colonization began around 1600 and  आए ज़्यादातर इससे इंग्लैण्ड  .
The  संयुक्त राज्य उभरा इससे तेरह  British colonies located along the Atlantic seaboard .
विवादों between ग्रेट ब्रिटेन और the अमरीकी  colonies led to the American Revolution .
On July 4 , 1776 , delegates from the 13 colonies unanimously issued the  घोषणा of स्वतंत्रता , जिससे स्थापित the संयुक्त राज्य  of America .
The American Revolutionary War , which ended with the recognition of  स्वतंत्रता of the संयुक्त राज्य इससे the किंगडम of ग्रेट ब्रिटेन , थी the पहला कामयाब  war of independence against a European colonial empire .
The current Constitution  थी अपनाया on सितंबर 17 , 1787 ; twenty-seven  Amendments have since been added to the Constitution .
The first ten amendments , collectively named the Bill of Rights , were ratified in 1791 and guarantee many fundamental civil  अधिकारों और freedoms  .
Driven by the doctrine of manifest  नियति , the संयुक्त  States embarked on a vigorous expansion across North America throughout the 19th century .
This involved displacing native tribes , acquiring new  territories , और धीरे  admitting new states .
The American Civil War ended  legalized गुलामी  in the United States .
by the समाप्त of the उन्नीसवीं सदी , the  United States extended into the Pacific Ocean , and its economy was the world 's largest .
The  spanish–american युद्ध और पुष्टि  the country 's status as a global military power .
The United  राज्य उभरा इससे as a वैश्विक महाशक्ति , the पहला देश  with nuclear weapons , and a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council .
The end of the Cold War and the  विच्छेद of the सोवियत  Union left the United States as the sole superpower .
The United States is a developed country and has the world 's largest national economy , with an  अनुमानित 2012 जीडीपी of $ 15.6 खरब 19 % of वैश्विक जीडीपी at purchasing-power पैरिटी  , as of 2011 .
The per capita GDP of the U.S. was the world 's sixth-highest as of 2010 , although America 's wealth  असमानता थी भी क्रमित उच्चतम  among OECD countries by the World Bank .
The economy is  fueled by an प्रचुरता of प्राकृतिक संसाधन , a well-developed अवसंरचना , और  high productivity ; and while its economy is considered post-industrial it continues to be one of the world 's largest manufacturers .
The country accounts for 39 % of global military  बिता , और is a अग्रणी आर्थिक , राजनैतिक , और सांस्कृतिक फ़ोर्स in the संसार , as खूब as a नेता in वैज्ञानिक शोध और technological  innovation .
The NCAA Men 's Division I Basketball Championship is a single-elimination tournament played each spring in the United States , currently featuring 68 college basketball teams , to determine the national championship of the  प्रमुख कॉलेज बास्केट  teams .
The tournament ,  व्यवस्थित by the नेशनल कॉलेजिएट एथलेटिक संघ ( ncaa ) , थी निर्मित  during 1939 by the National Association of Basketball Coaches , and was the idea of Ohio State University coach Harold Olsen .
Played mostly during March , it is known informally  as कूच दीवानगी or the बिग नृत्य , और रै become एक of the  most famous annual sporting events in the United States .
The NCAA has credited Bob Walsh  of the सिएटल आयोजन  Committee for starting the March Madness celebration during 1984 .
The tournament teams include champions from 31 Division I conferences (  जिससे प्राप्त स्वचालित बोलियों ) , और 37 टीमों जिससे  are awarded at-large berths .
These `` at-large '' teams are  चुनी by an ncaa चयन  committee , as detailed below .
The 64 teams are divided into four regions and  व्यवस्थित into a सिंगल विलोपन  `` bracket '' , which predetermines , when a team wins a game , which team it will face next .
Each team is ``  seeded '' , or क्रमित , भीतर  its region .
After an initial four games  between आठ lower-ranked टीमों , the टूर्नामेंट occurs  during the course of three weekends , at pre-selected neutral sites around the United States .
Lower-ranked teams are placed  in the कोष्ठक विरूद्ध उच्चतर  ranked teams .
Each weekend eliminates three-fourths of  the टीमों , इससे a गोलाकार of 64 , to a `` मीठी सोलह '' , और लिये the  last weekend of the Tournament a Final Four ; the Final Four is usually played during the first weekend of April .
These four teams , one from each  प्रदेश , तब compete in एक स्थान  for the national championship .
The tournament has  महरूम at तनिक partially televised  since 1969 .
Presently ,  the खेल हैं reported by सीबीएस , tbs  , TNT , and truTV by the trade-name NCAA March Madness .
Since 2011 , all games are  उपलब्धियाँ लिये देखने देशभर  .
as टेलीविज़न कवरेज रै grown  , so too has the tournament 's popularity .
Presently ,  लाखो of अमेरिकी  `` fill out a bracket '' , predicting winners of all 67 games .
With 11 national titles , UCLA has  the रिकार्ड लिये the सबसे ncaa मेन 's प्रभाग i बास्केट  Championships ; John Wooden coached UCLA to 10 of its 11 titles .
The  विश्वविद्यालयों of केंटकी  is second , with 8 national titles , while Indiana University and the University of North Carolina are tied for third with 5 national titles .
ड्यूक विश्वविद्यालयों बाँधने पांचवां साथ  4 national titles .
A sample of  सिंथेटिक मोटर  oil
Synthetic oil is a lubricant consisting of chemical  यौगिकों कि हैं artificially बना (  synthesized ) .
Synthetic lubricants can be manufactured using chemically  परिवर्धित पेट्रोलियम components बल्कि than पूरे crude आयल , लकिन  can also be synthesized from other raw materials .
सिंथेटिक आयल is प्रयुक्त as a स्थानापन्न लिये स्नेहक परिष्कृत इससे पेट्रोलियम जब ऑपरेटिंग in extremes of तापमान ,  because , in general , it provides superior mechanical and chemical properties than those found in traditional mineral oils .
Aircraft jet engines , for example , require the use of synthetic oils ,  whereas वायुयान पिस्टन इंजन  do not .
Jackass is an American reality series , originally shown on MTV from 2000 to 2002 , featuring people performing various dangerous , crude  self-injuring  stunts and pranks .
The show served as a launchpad for the television and acting careers of Bam Margera , Steve-O , and also Johnny Knoxville , who previously had  तभी a few  minor acting roles .
Since 2002 , three Jackass  films have महरूम उत्पादित और released by एमटीवी कॉरपोरेट  sibling Paramount Pictures , continuing the franchise after its run on television .
The show sparked several spin-offs including Viva La Bam , Wildboyz ,  homewrecker , dr. steve-o और blastazoid .
The  दिखाएँ लगाई # 68 on entertainment साप्ताहिक  `` New TV Classics '' list .
Roseanne Cherrie Barr ( born November 3 , 1952 ) is an American actress , comedienne , writer , television producer , director  , और 2012 अध्यक्षीय nominee of the कैलिफ़ोर्निया -आधारd सलाम और स्वतंत्रता  Party .
Barr began her  करियर in stand-up कॉमेडी at क्लब पहले gaining कीर्ति लिये  her role in the sitcom Roseanne .
The show was a hit and lasted nine  सीज़न , इससे 1988 to  1997 .
She won both an Emmy and a Golden Globe  पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन अभिनेत्री लिये उसके कार्य on the  show .
Barr had crafted a `` fierce working-class domestic goddess '' persona in the eight years  preceding उसके sitcom और चाही to do a यथार्थवादी दिखाएँ परिचय a  strong mother who was not a victim of patriarchal consumerism .
The granddaughter of immigrants  इससे यूरोपीय और रूस , barr थी the oldest of चार children in a working-class यहूदी नमक झील नगर परिवार ;  she was also active in the LDS Church .
In 1974 , she married Bill Pentland , with whom she had three children ,  पहले divorcing in 1990 और marrying  comedian Tom Arnold for four years .
Controversy arose when she sang `` The Star-Spangled Banner `` off-key at a 1990  nationally aired बेसबॉल खेल , followed  by grabbing her crotch and spitting .
After her  sitcom ended , वो शुभारम्भ  her own talk show , The Roseanne Show , which aired from 1998 to 2000 .
In 2005 , she returned  to stand-up कॉमेडी  with a world tour .
In 2011 , she starred in an unscripted TV show , Roseanne 's Nuts ,  कि lasted इससे जुलाई to सितंबर of  that year , about her life on a Hawaiian farm .
In early 2012 , Barr announced her  उम्मीदवारी लिये the अध्यक्षीय नामांकन  of the Green Party .
Barr lost  the नामांकन to jill  Stein .
She then  sought the अध्यक्षीय नामांकन of the सलाम  and Freedom Party , which she won on August 4 , 2012 .
Barr received 61,971 votes in the  सामान्य चुनाव , रखकर  sixth overall .
Francesco Albani 's  17th सदी बपतिस्मा of मसीह is a ठेठ चित्रण साथ the आसमान  opening and the Holy Spirit descending as a dove .
The baptism of  यीशु marks the शुरूआत  of his public ministry .
इस इवेंट is अंकित in the canonical  gospels of Matthew , Mark and Luke .
John 's gospel does not describe  यीशु ' बपतिस्मा , लकिन जॉन the बैपटिस्ट  does testify of the other things in .
In the New Testament , John the Baptist preached the baptism of repentance for the  remission of पापों ( ) , और घोषित खुद a forerunner of he कि होता baptize `` साथ the पावन भुत और साथ  fire '' ( ) .
In so doing he was  तैयारी the रास्ता लिये  Jesus .
Jesus came to the Jordan  नदी जहाँ he थी  baptized by John .
the baptismal झाँकी शामिल the आकाश खोलने , a dove-like descent of the पावन  Spirit , and a voice from heaven saying , `` This is my beloved Son , in whom I am well pleased . ''
Most modern scholars view the fact that Jesus was baptized by John as an historical  इवेंट to जिससे a ऊँची उपाधि of certainty  can be assigned .
Along with the crucifixion of Jesus most scholars view it as one of the two historically certain  तथ्य परिचय उसे , और प्रायः उपयोग it as the starting अंक लिये the पढ़ाई of the ऐतिहासिक यीशु .
The baptism  is एक of the पाँच प्रमुख माइलस्टोन in  the gospel narrative of the life of Jesus , the others being the Transfiguration , Crucifixion , Resurrection , and Ascension .
Most Christian denominations  दृश्य the बपतिस्मा of यीशु as an महत्वपूर्ण  event and a basis for the Christian rite of baptism ( see also ) .
In Eastern Christianity , Jesus '  बपतिस्मा is commemorated on 6 जनवरी  , the feast of Epiphany .
In the Roman Catholic Church , the Anglican Communion ,  the लूथरन चर्च और कुछ अन्य पश्चिमी denominations , it is recalled on a दिन  within the following week , the feast of the baptism of the Lord .
In Roman Catholicism , the baptism of Jesus is  एक of the चमकदार रहस्यों sometimes added to  the Rosary .
It is a  trinitarian feast in the  Eastern Orthodox Churches .
Methylcobalamin  ( दिखाया ) is a रूप of  vitamin B12 .
Physically it resembles  the अन्य फ़ॉर्म of विटामिन b12 , occurring as अंधेरा रेड crystals कि freely  form cherry-colored transparent solutions in water .
Vitamin B12 , vitamin B12 or vitamin B-12 , also called cobalamin , is a water-soluble vitamin with a key  भूमिका in the सामान्य कामकाज of the दिमाग और बेचैन प्रणाली , और लिये the गठन of रक्त  .
It is one of the eight B  विटामिन  .
It is normally involved in the metabolism of every cell of the human body , especially affecting DNA synthesis  और विनियमन , लकिन  also fatty acid synthesis and energy production .
Neither fungi ,  पौधे , nor पशु हैं सक्षम  of producing vitamin B12 .
Only bacteria and archaea have the enzymes required for its synthesis , although  अनेक भोजन हैं a प्राकृतिक सोर्स of b12 क्युकी of बैक्टीरियल symbiosis  .
The vitamin is  the largest और सबसे structurally जटिल विटामिन और can be  produced industrially only through bacterial fermentation-synthesis .
Vitamin B12 consists of a class of chemically  सम्बन्धित यौगिकों ( vitamers ) , सब of जिससे have  vitamin activity .
It contains the biochemically  विरल तत्व कोबाल्ट  .
Biosynthesis of the basic structure of the vitamin  is संपन्नता तभी by जीवाणु ( जिससे प्रायः उपज hydroxocobalamin ) , लकिन परिवर्तन between  different forms of the vitamin can be accomplished in the human body .
A common semi-synthetic form of the vitamin , cyanocobalamin , does not occur in nature , but is produced from bacterial hydroxocobalamin and then used in many pharmaceuticals and supplements ,  और as a खाना योगात्मक , क्युकी of इसके स्थिरता और निम्नतर उत्पादन  cost .
In the  देह it is परिवर्तित to the इंसान physiological फ़ॉर्म methylcobalamin  and adenosylcobalamin , leaving behind the cyanide , albeit in minimal concentration .
More recently ,  hydroxocobalamin , methylcobalamin , और adenosylcobalamin can be मिला in  more expensive pharmacological products and food supplements .
The extra  यूटिलिटी of ये is  currently debated .
Vitamin B12 was discovered from its relationship to the disease pernicious anemia , which is an autoimmune  बीमारी in जिससे parietal कोशिकाएं of the पेट जिम्मेदार लिये  secreting intrinsic factor are destroyed .
Intrinsic factor is crucial for  the सामान्य अवशोषण of b12 , so a कमी of मूलभूत फ़ैक्टर ,  as seen in pernicious anemia , causes a vitamin B12 deficiency .
Many other subtler kinds of  विटामिन b12 कमियां और उनके biochemical  effects have since been elucidated .
Full Metal Jacket is a 1987 war  फिल्मी उत्पादित , निर्देशित  and co-written by Stanley Kubrick .
It is an adaptation of Gustav Hasford 's 1979 novel The Short-Timers  और सितारों मैथ्यू modine , विंसेंट d'onofrio , R. ली ermey , arliss  Howard , and Adam Baldwin .
the फिल्मी फ़ॉलो a प्लाटून of u.S. marines through  their training and the experiences of two of the platoon 's Marines in the Tet Offensive during the Vietnam War .
The film 's title refers to the  पूरा मेटल जैकेट गोली प्रयुक्त  by infantry riflemen .
The film  प्राप्त नाजुक acclaim  .
It received an Academy Award nomination for Best  adapted पटकथा लिये kubrick ,  Michael Herr and Gustav Hasford .
In 2001 , the American Film Institute  लगाई पूरा मेटल जैकेट at # 95 in उनके `` एएफआई  's 100 Years ... 100 Thrills `` poll .
TMZ  is a हस्ती न्यूज जालस्थल कि  debuted on November 8 , 2005 .
It was a collaboration between AOL and  telepictures प्रोडक्शन्स , a प्रभाग of warner  Bros. , until Time Warner divested AOL in 2009 .
However , it remained affiliated with  एओएल न्यूज और रै the एओएल न्यूज लोगो affixed in  the upper right corner .
The  नाम tmz स्टैंड लिये the ऐतिहासिक `` स्टुडियो मण्डल `` or 30-mile मण्डल दायरा  from the intersection of West Beverly Boulevard and North La Cienega Boulevard in Los Angeles .
TMZ 's  मैनेजिंग एडिटर is घनघोर levin , a lawyer-turned-journalist  who was previously a legal expert for the Los Angeles television station KCBS-TV .
The site claims that it does not pay for stories or interviews ; however , Levin has  admitted कि tmz करता `` sometimes अदा स्त्रोत लिये  leads on stories '' .
Levin has stated that `` everything is  शोधकार्य और vetted लिये सटीकता  . ''
A  साथी  TV series , TMZ on TV , debuted on September 10 , 2007 .
Scream 3 is a 2000 American slasher film created by Kevin Williamson , directed by  वेस craven और लिखा by ehren क्रूगर , अभिनीत neve कैम्पबेल , courteney कॉक्स arquette और दाउद  Arquette .
It was released on February 4 , 2000  as the तीसरा किश्त in the चीख फिल्मी  series .
The events of the story are set three years after those of Scream 2 and  फ़ॉलो sidney प्रेस्कॉट ( कैम्पबेल ) जो रै गए into self-imposed अलगाव following  the events of the previous two films but is drawn to Hollywood after a new Ghostface begins killing the cast of the film within a film `` Stab 3 '' .
Scream 3  combines the हिंसा of the slasher विधा साथ कॉमेडी और `` whodunit `` रहस्य  while satirizing the cliché of film trilogies .
Unlike the  पिछला चीख films , वहीँ थी an increased जोर on comedic तत्व और the  violence and horror was reduced in response to increased public scrutiny about violence in media following the Columbine High School massacre .
The film was the concluding chapter of the Scream series until it was revived  साथ a sequel , चीख 4 ,  in 2011 .
Williamson provided a five-page outline for two sequels to Scream when  auctioning उसके असली स्क्रिप्ट , उम्मीद to entice bidders साथ the संभावित of खरीदे  a franchise .
Williamson 's commitments to other projects meant he was unable to develop a complete script for Scream 3 and writing duties  यहूद undertaken by ehren  Kruger who discarded much of Williamson 's notes .
Craven and Marco Beltrami returned to direct  और स्कोर the फिल्मी क्रमशः as वे  had with the previous two series entries .
Production was troubled with script rewrites , with pages sometimes only ready on the  दिन of फिल्मांकन , और scheduling कठिनाइयों  with the main cast .
Scream 3 performed both financially and critically worse  than इसके preceding films , कमाई over $ 161 लाख और साथ  many critics claiming that the film had become what Scream originally `` spoofed `` .
Despite negative criticism the film did  प्राप्त तारीफ़ साथ reviewers कॉलिंग it the पूर्ण  end to the Scream trilogy .
As of 2012 , the film is  फिलहाल the क्रमांक 3 highest-grossing slasher-film in उत्तर अमेरिका  , following Scream at number 1 and Scream 2 at number 2 .
The film 's soundtrack was well-received , spending fourteen weeks on  the बिलबोर्ड 200 और reaching a ऊँची of #  32 .
कंधे impingement सिंड्रोम , भी पुकारा दुखद चाप सिंड्रोम , supraspinatus सिंड्रोम , तैराक 's कंधे  , and thrower 's shoulder , is a clinical syndrome which occurs when the tendons of the rotator cuff muscles become irritated and inflamed as they pass through the subacromial space , the passage beneath the acromion .
इस can परिणाम in पीड़ा  , weakness and loss of movement at the shoulder .
JLA was a monthly comic book published  by dc कॉमिक्स इससे जनवरी 1997 to अप्रैल 2006 featuring  the Justice League .
The colonial history of the United States covers the history of  यूरोपीय settlements इससे the प्रारंभ of colonization of अमेरिका  until their incorporation into the United States .
In the late 16th century ,  इंग्लैण्ड , फ़्रांस , स्पेन और the नीदरलैंड्स  launched major colonization programs in eastern North America .
Small early attempts—such as the English Lost Colony of Roanoke —often  disappeared ; everywhere the मौत रेट of the पहला आमद थी बहुत ऊँची  .
nevertheless कामयाब  colonies were established .
European  settlers आए इससे a किस्में of सोशल और  religious groups .
No  aristocrats settled permanently  , but a number of adventurers , soldiers , farmers , and tradesmen arrived .
Diversity was an American characteristic as the Dutch of New  netherland , the swedes और finns of नई स्वीडन , the अंग्रेज़ी quakers of पेन्सिलवेनिया , the अंग्रेज़ी puritans of नई इंग्लैण्ड  , the English settlers of Jamestown , and the `` worthy poor '' of Georgia , came to the new continent and built colonies with distinctive social , religious , political and economic styles .
Occasionally one colony took control of another ( during  युद्धों between उनके यूरोपीय अभिभावक  ) .
Only in Nova Scotia (  अभी भाग of कनाडा ) किया the conquerors  expel the previous colonists .
बजाय वे सब  lived side by side in peace .
There were no major civil wars among the 13 colonies , and the two chief armed rebellions ( in Virginia in  1676 और in नई यॉर्क in 1689–91 ) यहूद short-lived  failures .
Wars between the French and the British—the  फ्रेंच और भारतीय युद्धों और पिता rale 's युद्ध —were तूल , और शामिल  French-support for Wabanaki Confederacy attacks on the frontiers .
By 1760 France was defeated and the British  जब्त इसके colonies  .
The four distinct regions were : New England , the Middle  colonies , the chesapeake खाड़ी colonies ( अपर दक्षिण )  and the Lower South .
कुछ इतिहासकारों add a पांचवां प्रदेश , the  Frontier , which was never separately organized .
By the time European settlers arrived around 1600–1650 , the majority of the Native Americans living in the eastern United States had  महरूम decimated by नई रोगों , introduced to उन्हें  decades before by explorers and sailors .
See  समयरेखा of औपनिवेशिक अमेरिका लिये सूची of  historical events .
Gloria Laura  वेंडरबिल्ट ( born फ़रवरी 20 , 1924 ) is an अमरीकी कलाकार , लेखक  , actress , heiress , and socialite most noted as an early developer of designer blue jeans .
She is a member of the prominent  वेंडरबिल्ट परिवार of नई यॉर्क और the  mother of CNN 's Anderson Cooper .
Greece ( Romanization of  greek| ) , officially  the Hellenic Republic ( ' ) , is a country in Southeast Europe .
According to the  2011 जनसांख्यिकी  , Greece 's population is around 11 million .
Athens is the nation 's capital and largest city , its urban  क्षेत्रफल भी सहित piraeus  .
Greece is strategically located at the crossroads of Europe , Asia , the Middle East , and Africa , and has land borders with Albania  , the गणतंत्र of मकदूनिया और बुल्गारिया to the उत्तर , और तुर्कों to the पूर्वोत्तर  .
The Aegean Sea lies to the east of mainland Greece , the Ionian Sea to the  वेस्ट , और the भूमध्यसागरीय समुद्र to the  south .
Greece has the 11th longest  तटरेखा in the संसार at in लंबाई , featuring a विशाल क्रमांक of आइलैंड्स  ( approximately 1,400 , of which 227 are inhabited ) , including Crete , the Dodecanese , the Cyclades , and the Ionian Islands among others .
Eighty percent of Greece  consists of kyu , of जिससे  Mount Olympus is the highest at .
Modern Greece traces its roots to the civilization of  प्राचीन यूनानियों , generally माना  the cradle of Western civilization .
As such , it is the birthplace of democracy , Western philosophy , the Olympic Games , Western literature and historiography , political  विज्ञान , प्रमुख वैज्ञानिक और गणितीय सिद्धान्त , और पश्चिमी नाटक , सहित दोनो त्रासदी  and comedy .
This legacy is partly reflected in the seventeen UNESCO  संसार विरासत साइट स्तिथ in यूनानियों , रैंकिंग it 7th in  Europe and 13th in the world .
The  आधुनिक यूनानी  state was established in 1830 , following the Greek War of Independence .
Greece is a founding member of the United Nations , has been a member of what is now the European  संघ चूंकि 1981 ( और the eurozone चूंकि 2001 ) , और रै महरूम a सदस्य of  NATO since 1952 .
यूनानियों is a विकसित देश साथ an उन्नत , high-income अर्थव्यवस्था और बहुत ऊँची मानकों  of living , including the world 's 21st highest quality of life as of 2010 .
Greece 's economy is also the largest in  the balkans , जहाँ यूनानियों is an महत्वपूर्ण क्षेत्रीय  investor .
A prime meridian is a meridian , i.e . a line of  देशांतर , at जिससे देशांतर is पारिभाषित to be  0° .
A prime meridian and its opposite in a 360°-system , the  180th मध्याह्न ( at 180° देशांतर ) , रूप  a great circle .
This  ग्रेट वृत्त divides the गोला  , e.g . the Earth , into two hemispheres .
If one uses  दिशानिर्देश of ईस्ट और वेस्ट इससे a पारिभाषित प्रधान मध्याह्न  , then they can be called Eastern Hemisphere and Western Hemisphere .
Gerardus Mercator in his Atlas Cosmographicae ( 1595 ) uses a  प्रधान मध्याह्न कही बंद to 25°w , गुजर बस  to the west of Santa Maria Island in the Atlantic .
His 180th  मध्याह्न रनों साथ the जलसन्धि  of Anián ( Bering Strait )
A prime meridian is ultimately arbitrary , unlike an equator , which  is संकल्पित by the अक्ष of rotation—and विभिन्न  conventions have been used or advocated in different regions and throughout history .
Minka Dumont Kelly ( born Minka Dumont Dufay  ; जून 24 , 1980 ) is  an American actress .
She is perhaps best known for her roles in  चार्ली 's फ़रिश्ते  , Friday Night Lights , and The Roommate .
R.O.B . ( Robotic Operating Buddy ) , released in  जापानी as the , is an accessory लिये the निन्टेंडो  Entertainment System ( NES ) .
It was released in July 1985 in  जापानी और बाद कि साल in  North America .
It had  a छोटी उत्पाद जीवनकाल , साथ support लिये तभी दो  games which comprised the `` Robot Series '' ; Gyromite and Stack-Up .
R.O.B . was released with the intention of portraying the Nintendo  entertainment प्रणाली as कुछ अनोखा  in order to alleviate retail fears following the video game crash of 1983 .
R.O.B . was available in the Deluxe Set , a configuration for the  कंसोल कि शामिल , among अन्य बाते , r.o.b  . and Gyromite .
Stack-Up was  खरीदा separately  and included its own physical game pieces .
The Walking Liberty  हाफ डालर थी a चांदी 50-cent टुकड़ा or हाफ डालर  coin issued by the United States Mint from 1916 to 1947 ; it was designed by Adolph A. Weinman .
In 1915 , the new Mint Director , Robert W. Woolley , came to believe that he was not only allowed but required  by विधि to बदलें सिक्का डिजाइन कि था महरूम in उपयोग लिये 25 सालो  .
He therefore  began the प्रक्रम of replacing the नाई coinage : dimes , quarters और हाफ डॉलर , सब bearing समान  designs by long-time Mint Engraver Charles E. Barber , and first struck in 1892 .
Woolley had the Commission of Fine  कला conduct a प्रतियोगिता , as a परिणाम of जिससे weinman  was selected to design the dime and half dollar .
Weinman 's design of Liberty striding towards the Sun for the  हाफ डालर proved मुश्किल to पूर्ण , और राजकोष सचिव  William G. McAdoo , whose department included the Mint , considered having Barber create his own design .
Mint officials were successful in getting  weinman 's डिज़ाइन into उत्पादन , हालांकि  it never struck very well , which may have been a factor in its replacement by the Franklin half dollar beginning in 1948 .
Nevertheless , art historian Cornelius  vermeule माना the टुकड़ा to be among  the most beautiful US coins .
Since 1986 , a  परिवर्धन of weinman 's obverse डिज़ाइन रै महरूम प्रयुक्त  for the American Silver Eagle .
The Toyota 4Runner is a mid-size sport utility vehicle (  एसयूवी ) उत्पादित by the जापानी निर्माता टोयोटा और बेची throughout the संसार  from 1984 to present .
In Japan  it थी ज्ञात as  the Toyota Hilux Surf .
The original 4Runner was a compact SUV and little more than a Toyota pickup truck with a fiberglass shell over the bed , but the model has since undergone significant  स्वतंत्र विकास into a क्रॉस between a कॉम्पैक्ट और a mid-size  SUV .
All 4Runners have been built at Toyota 's Tahara plant in Tahara , Aichi , Japan  , or at hino मोटर्स ' hamura , जापानी संयंत्र , और in  Brazil .
Its mid-size crossover SUV  बंटवारा is the टोयोटा  Highlander .
This article deals with medicine as practiced by trained  पेशेवर इससे प्राचीन टाइम्स to the उपस्थित  .
the प्राचीन उन्होंने था  a system of medicine that was very advanced for its time and influenced later medical traditions .
The Egyptians and Babylonians both introduced the concepts of diagnosis ,  prognosis , और चिकित्सा परिक्षा  .
the यूनानियों गई भी  further , and advanced as well medical ethics .
the hippocratic शपथ , स्टिल लिया by  doctors today , was written in Greece in the 5th century BCE .
In  the मध्यकालीन era , सर्जिकल practices inherited इससे the प्राचीन  masters were improved and then systematized in Rogerius 's The Practice of Surgery .
विश्वविद्यालयों began व्यवस्थित प्रशिक्षण  of physicians around the years 1220 in Italy .
During the  पुनर्जागरण , समझना of anatomy improved  , and the microscope was invented .
The germ theory of  बीमारी in the 19th  century led to cures for many infectious diseases .
Military doctors advanced the  विधि of आघात  treatment and surgery .
Public health measures were developed especially in the 19th century as  the रैपिड विकास of शहरों जरूरी व्यवस्थित  sanitary measures .
Advanced research  centers खोली in the जल्दी  20th century , often connected with major hospitals .
The mid-20th century was characterized by new  biological उपचार , ऐसे as एंटीबायोटिक  .
These advancements ,  साथ साथ developments  in chemistry , genetics , and lab technology ( such as the x-ray ) led to modern medicine .
Medicine was heavily professionalized in the  20th सदी , और नई करियर खोली to महिलाओं  as nurses ( from the 1870s ) and as physicians ( especially after 1970 ) .
The 21st century is characterized by very  उन्नत शोध involving numerous फ़ील्ड  of science .
The Hippocratic Corpus ,  is a संग्रहण of जल्दी चिकित्सा works इससे प्राचीन यूनानियों strongly संबद्ध  with the ancient Greek physician Hippocrates and his teachings .
Potassium is a  रासायनिक तत्व साथ प्रतीक k ( इससे neo-latin  kalium ) and atomic number 19 .
Elemental potassium is a soft silvery-white alkali metal  कि oxidizes rapidly in एयर और is बहुत प्रतिक्रिया साथ जल , generating  sufficient heat to ignite the hydrogen emitted in the reaction and burning with a lilac flame .
Because potassium and sodium are chemically very  समान , उनके लवण यहूद नहीं  at first differentiated .
The existence of multiple elements in their salts was suspected from 1702 , and this was proven in  1807 जब पोटैशियम और सोडियम यहूद  individually isolated from different salts by electrolysis .
Potassium in nature occurs only in  ionic लवण  .
As such , it is found dissolved in seawater ( which is 0.04 %  पोटैशियम by वज़न ) , और is भाग of  many minerals .
Most industrial chemical applications of potassium employ the  अपेक्षाकृत ऊँची घुलनशीलता in जल of पोटैशियम यौगिकों  , such as potassium soaps .
Potassium metal has only a few special applications , being replaced  in सबसे रासायनिक  reactions with sodium metal .
Potassium ions are necessary for the  फलन of सब जीना  cells .
Potassium ion diffusion is a key mechanism in nerve transmission , and potassium depletion in  पशु , सहित इंसानो , परिणाम in  various cardiac dysfunctions .
Potassium  accumulates in संयंत्र कोशिकाएं , और यूँ भैस  fruits and vegetables are a good dietary source of it .
conversely , सबसे पौधे मगर  specialist halophytes are intolerant of salt , and sodium is present in them only in low concentration .
This resulted in potassium first being isolated from potash , the ashes  of पौधे , giving the  element its name .
लिये the वही कारण , भारी क्रॉप उत्पादन rapidly depletes  soils of potassium , and agricultural fertilizers consume 95 % of global potassium chemical production .
The Singapore dollar or  डालर ( चिह्न : $ ; कोड : sgd ) is the  official currency of Singapore .
It is  सामान्यतः abbreviated साथ the डालर चिह्न $ , or alternatively s $  to distinguish it from other dollar -denominated currencies .
it is विभाजित  into 100 cents .
The Monetary Authority of Singapore and the Brunei  करेंसी और मौद्रिक फलक स्टिल maintain the ऐतिहासिक  exchangeability of their two currencies , the Singaporean dollar and the Brunei dollar , respectively .
The dollar is accepted as ``  प्रथागत टेंडर  '' in Brunei according to the Currency Interchangeability Agreement .
Likewise , the Brunei dollar is customarily  स्वीकृत in सिंगापुर
James Samuel Coleman ( May 12 , 1926 – March 25 , 1995 )  थी an अमरीकी समाजशास्त्री , theorist और अनुभवजन्य शोधकर्ता , आधारित chiefly  at the University of Chicago .
He was elected president of the  अमरीकी समाजशास्त्रीय  Association .
Coleman studied  the समाजशास्त्र of शिक्षा , पब्लिक नीति , और थी  one of the earliest users of the term `` social capital `` .
His Foundations of  सोशल सिद्धान्त बहकावे समाजशास्त्रीय  theory .
His The Adolescent Society ( 1961 ) and `` Coleman Report '' ( Equality of Educational  अवसर , 1966 ) यहूद दो of the सबसे heavily cited किताबे in शैक्षणिक समाजशास्त्र  .
The  लैंडमार्क कोलमैन रपट helped रूपांतरण शैक्षणिक सिद्धान्त , reshape नेशनल शिक्षा  policies , and influenced public and scholarly opinion regarding the role of schooling in determining equality and productivity in the United States .
Superman ( from DC comics  ) थी the पहला सुपरहीरो  created , art by Jim Lee .
A superhero ( sometimes rendered super-hero or super  नायिका ) is a प्रकार of भण्डार अक्षर possessing  `` extraordinary or superhuman powers '' and dedicated to protecting the public .
Since the debut of the prototypical superhero  सुपरमैन in 1938 , कहानियां of superheroes—ranging इससे ब्रैड episodic adventures to continuing  years-long sagas—have dominated American comic books and crossed over into other media .
The word itself  तिथियाँ to at तनिक  1917 .
A female superhero is sometimes called a superheroine (  भी rendered super-heroine  or super heroine ) .
`` SUPER HEROES '' is  a ट्रेडमार्क co-owned by dc कॉमिक्स और  Marvel Comics .
By most definitions , characters do not strictly require actual superhuman powers to be deemed superheroes , although terms such as costumed crime  सेनानी or नकाबपोश vigilantes हैं sometimes प्रयुक्त to refer to those ऐसे as बैटमैन और ग्रीन तीर बगैर ऐसे  powers who share other common superhero traits .
Such characters were  generally referred to as `` रहस्य मेन '' in the so-called सुनहरी  Age of Comic Books to distinguish them from characters with super-powers .
Normally , superheroes use their powers to counter  day-to-day अपराधों जबकि भी combating खतरे विरूद्ध मानवता by supervillains  , their criminal counterparts .
Often , one of these  supervillains होगा be the सुपरहीरो  's archenemy .
As  खूब , कुछ longrunning superheroes  , such as Superman , Batman , Spider-Man and Iron Man each has a rogues gallery of enemies .
As well , superheroes sometimes will combat such irregular threats  as एलियंस , magical/ काल्पनिक  entities , American war enemies such as nazism or communism , and godlike or demonic creatures .
The following is a historical list of actors and  प्राथमिक अक्षर भूमिकाएँ जिससे appear on the अमरीकी साबुन ओपेरा एक  Life to Live .
The  shawshank मोचन is a 1994 अमरीकी  drama film written and directed by Frank Darabont and starring Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman .
Adapted from the Stephen King novella Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption , the film tells the story of Andy Dufresne , a  बैंकर जो खर्च nearly दो दशकों in shawshank राज्य थाना लिये  the murder of his wife and her lover despite his claims of innocence .
During his time at the prison , he befriends a fellow inmate , Ellis Boyd `` Red ''  redding , और पाता खुद सुरक्षित by the गार्ड बाद the वार्डन begins using उसे in उसके  money laundering operation .
Despite a lukewarm box office reception that barely recouped its budget , the film  प्राप्त अनुकूल समीक्षाएँ इससे आलोचकों , अनेक पुरस्कार nominations  , and has since enjoyed a remarkable life on cable television , VHS , DVD , and Blu-ray .
It was included in the American Film Institute 's 100 Years ... 100 Movies  10th वर्षगांठ  Edition .
IT  प्रबन्धन is the अनुशासन whereby सब  of the technology resources of a firm are managed in accordance with its needs and priorities .
These resources may  शामिल ठोस निवेश जैसे कंप्यूटर हार्डवेयर  , software , data , networks and data centre facilities , as well as the staffs who are hired to maintain them .
मैनेजिंग इस जिम्मेदारी भीतर a कम्पनी entails अनेक of the मौलिक प्रबन्धन कृत्यों , जैसे budgeting  , staffing , and organizing and controlling , along with other aspects that are unique to technology , like change management , software design , network planning , tech support etc .
The Penitentiary of New Mexico Prison Riot , which took place on February 2 and 3 , 1980 , in the state 's maximum  सुरक्षा थाना दक्षिण of सांता fe , थी एक of the सबसे हिंसक थाना दंगे in the इतिहास of the अमरीकी correctional  system : 33 inmates died and more than 200 inmates were treated for injuries .
None of the 12 officers taken hostage were killed ,  लकिन सात यहूद treated लिये चोटों caused by beatings  and rapes .
इस थी the तीसरा प्रमुख riot at  the NM State Penitentiary , the first occurring on 19 July 1922 and the second on 15 June 1953 .
Author Roger Morris suggests the death toll may have been higher , as a number  of लाशें यहूद incinerated or dismembered दौरान the  course of the mayhem .
`` Red Cardinal ''  redirects यहाँ  .
For the plant Erythrina  herbacea , देखिए मूँगा  Bean .
The Northern Cardinal ( Cardinalis cardinalis ) is a North  अमरीकी बर्ड in the genus cardinalis ; it is भी ज्ञात colloquially  as the redbird or common cardinal .
It  can be मिला in दक्षिणी कनाडा , through the  eastern United States from Maine to Texas and south through Mexico .
It is found in woodlands ,  gardens , shrublands , और  swamps .
The Northern  कार्डिनल is a mid-sized songbird साथ  a body length of 21 centimeters ( 8.3 inches ) .
It  रै a distinctive crest on the  head and a mask on the face which is black in the male and gray in the female .
The male is a vibrant red , while the female  is a फीकी red-brown शेड  .
The Northern Cardinal is mainly  granivorous , लकिन भी फ़ीड्स on कीट  and fruit .
The male behaves territorially ,  अंकन आउट उसके territory साथ  song .
दौरान प्रेमालाप  , the male feeds seed to the female beak-to-beak .
A clutch of three to four eggs is  रखी , और दो to चार चंगुल  are produced each year .
It was once prized as  a पालतु , लकिन इसके बिक्री as पिंजरा पक्षियों is  now banned in the United States by the Migratory Bird Treaty Act of 1918 .
Surface runoff , also  पुकारा nonpoint सोर्स प्रदूषण , इससे a फार्म  field in Iowa during a rain storm .
Topsoil as well as farm fertilizers and other potential pollutants run  बंद unprotected फार्म फ़ील्ड जब भारी  rains occur .
Topsoil is the  अपर , outermost परत of  soil , usually the top to .
It has the highest concentration of organic matter and  microorganisms और is जहाँ सबसे of the धरती 's biological  soil activity occurs .
Musical  cryptogram : `` aschbeg '' नियत in schoenberg 's sechs  kleine Klavierstücke , Op . 19 , no . 1 , m. 5 .
Note that the  टीप do नहीं आइये in स्पेलिंग  order but are all adjacent ( not separated by other notes ) .
Sechs kleine Klavierstücke , Op . 19 ( or Six Little Piano Pieces  ) is a नियत of टुकड़े लिये सोलो पियानो लिखा  by the Austrian composer Arnold Schoenberg , published in 1913 .
McAfee ,  inc. ( ) is an अमरीकी वैश्विक कंप्यूटर सुरक्षा तन्त्र कम्पनी headquartered  in Santa Clara , California , and the world 's largest dedicated security technology company .
As  of फ़रवरी  28 , 2011 , McAfee is a wholly owned subsidiary of Intel .
McAfee 's competitors in the antivirus  उद्योग हैं avira  , BitDefender , BullGuard , F-Secure , Frisk , Kaspersky , Symantec , and Trend Micro to name a few .
Saint Rita of Cascia ( Born Margherita Lotti 1381 - May 22 ,  1457 ) थी an इतालवी augustinian नन , विधवा और संत venerated  in the Roman Catholic Church .
Rita was married  at an जल्दी  age .
The marriage lasted for 18 years , during which she is  remembered लिये उसके ईसाई मान as a  model wife and mother who made efforts to convert her husband from his abusive behavior .
Upon the murder of her husband  by another feuding परिवार , वो  sought to dissuade her sons from revenge .
She subsequently joined an Augustinian community of religious sisters , where she was known for practicing  mortification of the flesh , साथ साथ the apparent efficacy  of her prayers .
St. Rita is venerated due to various  चमत्कार attributed to उसके सिफ़ारिश , और is प्रायः portrayed साथ a bleeding घाव on उसके माथे , जिससे the रोमन कैथोलिक  Church claims to have been a partial stigmata .
The Roman Catholic Church , under the pontificate of Pope  leo xiii officially canonized रीता on may 24 , 1900  , while her feast day is celebrated every May 22 .
in अनेक परहेज़गारों कैथोलिक देशों  , Rita is known to be a patroness for abused wives and mourning women .
North America is a continent wholly  भीतर the उत्तरी गोलार्ध और लगभग  wholly within the Western Hemisphere .
It is also considered a northern  उपमहाद्वीप of the americas  .
It is bordered to the north by the Arctic Ocean , to the east by  the अटलांटिक समंदर , to the वेस्ट और दक्षिण by the प्रशांत समंदर ,  and to the southeast by South America and the Caribbean Sea .
North America covers an area of about 24,709,000 square kilometers (  9,540,000 वर्गाकार मील ) , परिचय  4.8 % of the planet 's surface or about 16.5 % of its land area .
As of July 2008 , its population was estimated at nearly 529  लाख लोगों आरपार 23 स्वतंत्र राज्य  , representing about 7.5 % of the human population .
North America is the third-largest continent in area  , following एशिया और  Africa , and the fourth in population after Asia , Africa , and Europe .
The first  लोगों to सजीव in उत्तर अमेरिका यहूद paleoindians जो  began to arrive during the last glacial period by crossing the Bering land bridge .
They differentiated into a  क्रमांक of विविध संस्कृतियों  and communities across the continent .
The largest  और सबसे उन्नत pre-columbian सभ्यताओं in उत्तर अमेरिका  were the Aztecs in what is now Mexico and the Mayans in Central America .
European colonists began to arrive starting in the 16th and 17th centuries , wiping out large  संख्याएँ of the देशी populations और शुरूआत an era of  European dominance .
Jermaine Lamarr  कोल ( born जनवरी 28  , 1985 ) , better known by his stage name J. Cole , is an American hip-hop recording artist and record producer from Fayetteville , North Carolina .
In 2009 , he  became the पहला कलाकार to चिह्न to jay-z  's Roc Nation label .
His long-awaited debut album , entitled Cole World : The  sideline स्टोरी , थी released on सितंबर  27 , 2011 .
the एल्बम debuted at क्रमांक एक on the us बिलबोर्ड  200 , Top R & B Albums and Top Rap Albums chart , selling more than 218,000 in its first week .
He  प्राप्त a नामांकन लिये बेहतरीन नई  Artist at the 54th Grammy Awards .
The two main characters of the series ,  ratchet ( सही ) और  Clank ( left ) .
Ratchet & Clank is a series of  मंच वीडियो खेल  .
The franchise was created and developed by Insomniac Games and published by Sony Computer Entertainment for many different PlayStation consoles  , ऐसे as प्लेस्टेशन 2 और प्लेस्टेशन 3 साथ the exclusion of आकार matters और रहस्य एजेंट clank , जिससे यहूद विकसित by ऊँची प्रभाव खेल लिये  the PlayStation Portable .
Every game in the series has been released for every console , as the IP  is स्वामित्व by सोनी कंप्यूटर entertainment  .
An animated feature film  अनुकूलन उत्पादित by rainmaker  Entertainment and Blockade Entertainment is scheduled for a theatrical release sometime in 2015 .
The games take place in a science fiction setting and follow the adventures of  ratchet ( an animalistic human-like अक्षर ज्ञात as a lombax , जो is a मैकेनिक ) और clank ( a diminutive , sentient रोबोट ) as वे सफर through  the universe , saving it from evil forces on a regular basis .
The series is noted for the inclusion of many exotic and unique , over the  शीर्ष हथियार और डिवाइस , a अवधारणा कि insomniac खेल  also expanded into their other games .
A will or testament is a legal declaration by which a person  , the testator , names एक or अधिक व्यक्तियों to मैनेज his/her एस्टेट और provides  for the transfer of his property at death .
For the devolution  of प्रॉपर्टी नहीं disposed of by होगा , देखिए उत्तराधिकार  and intestacy .
In the strictest sense , a `` will '' has historically been limited to real property while `` testament '' applies only to dispositions of personal property ( thus giving rise to the popular  शीर्षक of the दस्तावेज़ as `` पिछला होगा और वसीयत '' ) , हालांकि इस भेद is seldom  observed today .
A will may also create a testamentary trust  कि is प्रभावी तभी बाद  the death of the testator .
The 19.9 MW Gemasolar solar plant in Spain features 15 hours of storage and can  सप्लाई शक्ति 24 घंटों a  day .
Solar energy , radiant light and heat from the sun , has been  harnessed by इंसानो चूंकि प्राचीन टाइम्स using a  range of ever-evolving technologies .
Solar energy technologies include solar heating , solar photovoltaics , solar thermal electricity , solar architecture and  कृत्रिम photosynthesis , जिससे can मेक considerable  contributions to solving some of the most urgent energy problems the world now faces .
Solar technologies are broadly characterized  as either passive सौर or क्रियाशील सौर depending  on the way they capture , convert and distribute solar energy .
Active  सौर तकनीकों शामिल the उपयोग of photovoltaic panels  and solar thermal collectors to harness the energy .
Passive solar techniques include orienting a building to the Sun , selecting materials with favorable thermal mass or light dispersing properties ,  और डिजाइनिंग स्पेसेस कि  naturally circulate air .
In 2011 , the International Energy Agency said that `` the  विकास of सस्ती , inexhaustible और साफ सौर  energy technologies will have huge longer-term benefits .
It will increase countries’  उर्जा सुरक्षा through रिलायंस on an स्वदेशी , inexhaustible  and mostly import-independent resource , enhance sustainability , reduce pollution , lower the costs of mitigating climate change , and keep fossil fuel prices lower than otherwise .
These  लाभ  are global .
Hence the additional costs of the incentives for early deployment  चाहिए be माना सीखना निवेश ; वे जरूर be बुद्धिमानी खर्च और  need to be widely shared '' .
Sir Thomas More ( ; 7 February 14786 July 1535 ) , known to Roman Catholics as Saint Thomas More since 1935 , was an English lawyer ,  सोशल पारस , लेखक , statesman  , and noted Renaissance humanist .
he थी an महत्वपूर्ण पार्षद to हेनरी viii of  England and was Lord Chancellor from October 1529 to 16 May 1532 .
He was  canonized by पोप पायस xi  in 1935 as one of the early martyrs of the schism that separated the Church of England from Rome in the 16th century .
In  2000 , पोप जॉन पॉल ii घोषित  him patron of Catholic statesmen and politicians .
More was an opponent of the Protestant Reformation , in particular of  मार्टिन लूथर और विलियम टिंडेल  .
However  , चूंकि 1980 , he is भी commemorated by the गिरिजाघर  of England as a reformation martyr .
More coined the word `` utopia `` – a name he gave to the ideal and imaginary island nation ,  the राजनैतिक प्रणाली of जिससे he वर्णित in यूटोपिया , प्रकाशित in  1516 .
He opposed the  किंग 's विरह इससे the रोमन कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर और refused  to accept him as Supreme Head of the Church of England , a title which had been given by parliament through the Act of Supremacy of 1534 .
He  थी imprisoned in 1534 लिये उसके refusal to लो the शपथ जरूरी by the पहला  Succession Act , because the act disparaged Papal Authority and Henry’s marriage to Catherine of Aragon .
In 1535 ,  he थी आजमाया लिये देशद्रोह ,  convicted on perjured testimony , and beheaded .
More also  helped to originate the phrase `` grasp at लोभी '' to औसत  `` desperately trying even useless things '' , in his Dialogue of Comfort Against Tribulation .
Intellectuals  और कूटनीतिज्ञों आरपार  Europe were stunned by More 's execution .
Erasmus saluted him as one `` whose  आत्मा थी अधिक pure than कोई हिम , जिनकी  genius was such that England never had and never again will have its like '' .
There was a more  विवादास्पद पक्ष to अधिक 's जीवन , क्युकी  he advocated the persecution and execution of Protestants who refused to recant their faith .
However , the judgement of history has been  largely willing to forgive इस in लाइट of the टाइम्स he  lived in and his martyrdom in the Roman Catholic cause .
Two centuries later Jonathan Swift said More was `` the person of the  महानतम पुण्य इस किंगडम कभी उत्पादित '' , a भावना साथ  which Samuel Johnson agreed .
Historian Hugh  trevor-roper कहा in 1977 कि अधिक थी `` the  first great Englishman whom we feel that we know , the most saintly of humanists , the most human of saints , the universal man of our cool northern renaissance . ''
Captain Nemo , also known as Prince Dakkar  , is a fictional अक्षर invented by the फ्रेंच विज्ञान  fiction author Jules Verne .
Nemo appears in two of Verne 's novels , Twenty Thousand  लीग अंतर्गत the समुद्र ( 1870 ) और the रहस्यमय द्वीप ( 1874 ) , और makes a कैमियो रूप  in Verne 's play Journey Through the Impossible ( 1882 ) .
Nemo , one of the most  प्रसिद्ध antiheroes in fiction , is a रहस्यमय  figure .
The son of an Indian Raja , he is a scientific genius who roams the depths of the sea in his submarine , the Nautilus ,  जिससे थी निर्मित on a उजाड़  island .
Nemo tries to project a stern , controlled confidence , but he is driven by a thirst for vengeance and  a द्वेष of साम्राज्यवाद ( विशेषकर the  British Empire ) .
He is also wracked by remorse over the deaths of his crew members and even  by the मौतों of दुश्मन sailors  .
Nemo has appeared in  विभिन्न adaptations of वर्न 's novels , सहित  films , where he has been portrayed by a number of different actors .
he रै furthermore महरूम अपनाया by अन्य लेखक लिये समावेश in उनके novels , सबसे notably in  Alan Moore 's The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen and Philip José Farmer 's The Other Log of Phileas Fogg .
Listed below are the Major League Baseball teams with the best season won-lost records in history  , as संकल्पित by जीतना प्रतिशत ( .700 or  better ) , minimum 120 games played .
Acoustic  coupler मॉडेम
A modem ( modulator-demodulator ) is a device  कि modulates an एनालॉग वाहक सिग्नल to encode डिजिटल सूचना , और भी  demodulates such a carrier signal to decode the transmitted information .
The goal  is to उपज a सिग्नल कि can be transmitted  easily and decoded to reproduce the original digital data .
modems can be प्रयुक्त over कोई अर्थात् of  transmitting analog signals , from light emitting diodes to radio .
The most familiar example is a voice band modem that turns the digital data of a personal computer  into modulated विद्युत सिग्नल in the आवाज़ आवृत्ति दायरा  of a telephone channel .
These signals can  be transmitted over टेलीफोन लाइनों और demodulated by another  modem at the receiver side to recover the digital data .
modems हैं generally वर्गीकृत by the राशि of आंकड़ा  they can send in a given unit of time , usually expressed in bits per second ( bit/s , or bps ) , or bytes per second ( B/s ) .
Modems can  alternatively be वर्गीकृत by उनके प्रतीक  rate , measured in baud .
The  baud ईकाई denotes प्रतीकों  per second , or the number of times per second the modem sends a new signal .
For example , the ITU V.21 standard used audio frequency shift keying with two possible  बारंबारता सम्बन्धित to दो पृथक प्रतीकों ( or एक  bit per symbol ) , to carry 300 bits per second using 300 baud .
By contrast , the original ITU V.22 standard , which was able to  संचारण और प्राप्त चार पृथक प्रतीकों ( दो बिट्स प्रति प्रतीक ) ,  handled 1,200 bit/s by sending 600 symbols per second ( 600 baud ) using phase shift keying .
The Declaration of Independence is a statement adopted by the Continental  कॉंग्रेस on जुलाई 4 , 1776 , जिससे घोषित कि the तेरह अमरीकी colonies , तब at युद्ध  with Great Britain , regarded themselves as independent states , and no longer a part of the British Empire .
बजाय वे  now formed a new nation—the United States of America .
John Adams was a leader in pushing for  स्वतंत्रता , जिससे थी unanimously  approved on July 2 .
A committee had already drafted the formal declaration  , to be तैयार जब कॉंग्रेस voted on स्वतंत्रता .
Adams persuaded the committee to select Thomas Jefferson to compose the  असली ड्राफ्ट of the दस्तावेज़ , जिससे कॉंग्रेस होता संपादन to उपज the  final version .
The Declaration was ultimately  a औपचारिक स्पष्टीकरण of क्यों कॉंग्रेस था voted  on July 2 to declare independence from Great Britain , more than a year after the outbreak of the American Revolutionary War .
The national birthday , the Independence Day is celebrated  on जुलाई 4 , हालांकि एडम्स  wanted July 2 .
After ratifying the  टेक्स्ट on जुलाई 4 , कॉंग्रेस  issued the Declaration of Independence in several forms .
It was initially published as the printed Dunlap  broadside कि थी widely वितरित और पढ़ा to the  public .
The most famous  संस्करण of the घोषणा , a हस्ताक्षरित नक़ल कि is popularly regarded  as the Declaration of Independence , is displayed at the National Archives in Washington , D.C .
Although the wording of the Declaration was approved  on जुलाई 4 , the तिथि of इसके हस्ताक्षर थी अगस्त  2 .
The original July 4 United States Declaration of Independence  पाण्डुलिपि थी खोया जबकि सब अन्य नक़ल have  been derived from this original document .
The sources and interpretation of the  घोषणा have महरूम the विषय  of much scholarly inquiry .
The Declaration justified the independence of the United States by  लिस्टिंग औपनिवेशिक grievances विरूद्ध किंग जार्ज  III , and by asserting certain natural and legal rights , including a right of revolution .
Having served its original purpose in announcing independence , the  टेक्स्ट of the घोषणा थी initially उपेक्षित बाद the अमरीकी  Revolution .
Since then , it  रै आइये to be माना a प्रमुख बयान on  human rights , particularly its second sentence:
We hold these truths to be self-evident , that all men are created equal , that they are endowed by their Creator with certain  unalienable अधिकारों , कि among ये हैं जीवन , स्वतंत्रता और the pursuit of सुख  .
This has been called `` one of the best-known sentences  in the अंग्रेज़ी भाषा '' , containing `` the सबसे potent और consequential  words in American history . ''
The passage came to represent a moral  मानक to जिससे the संयुक्त  States should strive .
This view was notably promoted by Abraham Lincoln , who considered the Declaration to be the foundation of his political philosophy ,  और argued कि the घोषणा is a बयान of सिद्धान्त through जिससे the संयुक्त राज्य  Constitution should be interpreted .
It has inspired work for the rights of  अधिकारहीन लोगों throughout  the world .
The Economy of Greenland can  be characterized as छोटी  , mixed and vulnerable .
The present economy consists of a big public sector and  व्यापक विदेशी व्यापार , जिससे रै resulted in an अर्थव्यवस्था साथ अवधि of  strong growth , considerable inflation , unemployment problems and extreme dependence on capital inflow from Denmark and use of outside , mainly Danish , skilled labor .
GDP per capita is similar to the average European economies but the economy is critically dependent upon substantial support from the Danish government , which supplies  परिचय हाफ the revenues of the घर नियम सरकारी जो in फेरे employ परिचय  8,000 Greenlanders out of a labor force of 40,156 ( Jan. 2012 ) .
Unemployment nonetheless  remains ऊँची , साथ the बाकी of the अर्थव्यवस्था निर्भर  upon demand for exports of shrimp and fish .
हाइड्रोजन is a रासायनिक तत्व  with symbol H and atomic number 1 .
With an atomic weight of ( for hydrogen-1 ) , hydrogen is the lightest element and its monatomic form ( H1 ) is the most  abundant रासायनिक पदार्थ , constituting roughly 75 % of the ब्रह्मांड 's baryonic  mass .
Non- remnant stars  हैं मुख्यतः रचित of हाइड्रोजन  in its plasma state .
At standard temperature and pressure , hydrogen is a colorless , odorless , tasteless , non-toxic , nonmetallic , highly combustible diatomic  गैस साथ the आणविक सूत्र  H2 .
Most of the hydrogen on Earth is in molecules such as water  और सशुल्क यौगिकों क्युकी हाइड्रोजन readily फ़ॉर्म covalent  compounds with most non-metallic elements .
हाइड्रोजन plays a विशेषकर महत्वपूर्ण भूमिका in  acid-base chemistry with many reactions exchanging protons between soluble molecules .
In ionic compounds , it can take a  ऋणात्मक चार्ज ( an anion ज्ञात as a हाइड्राइड और लिखा as  H− ) , or as a positively charged species H+ .
The latter cation  is लिखा as हालांकि रचित of a bare  proton , but in reality , hydrogen cations in ionic compounds always occur as more complex species .
The most common isotope of hydrogen is protium ( name rarely used ,  प्रतीक 1h ) साथ a  single proton and no neutrons .
As  the सरलतम अणु  known , the hydrogen atom has been of theoretical use .
For example  , as the तभी न्यूट्रल अणु साथ an analytic समाधान to the  Schrödinger equation , the study of the energetics and bonding of the hydrogen atom played a key role in the development of quantum mechanics .
हाइड्रोजन गैस थी पहला artificially  produced in the early 16th century , via the mixing of metals with acids .
In 1766–81 , Henry Cavendish was the first to recognize that  हाइड्रोजन गैस थी a अलहदा पदार्थ , और कि it produces जल जब burned , a प्रॉपर्टी जिससे  later gave it its name : in Greek , hydrogen means `` water-former '' .
Industrial production is mainly from the steam reforming of natural gas , and less often from more energy-intensive hydrogen  उत्पादन विधि जैसे the electrolysis of  water .
Most hydrogen is employed near its production site , with the two largest uses being fossil fuel processing ( e.g. , hydrocracking ) and ammonia  उत्पादन , ज़्यादातर लिये the उर्वरक मार्केट  .
Hydrogen is a concern in  metallurgy as it can  embrittle many metals , complicating the design of pipelines and storage tanks .
Unstoppable is a 2010 American  कार्रवाई थ्रिलर फिल्मी निर्देशित by टोनी स्कॉट , लिखा by चिह्नित bomback , और  starring Denzel Washington and Chris Pine .
The film , loosely based on the real-life CSX 8888 incident , tells the story of a runaway freight  ट्रैन , और the दो मेन ( वॉशिंगटन और पाइन ) जो मैनेज  to stop it .
It was Scott 's final feature film  पहले उसके मौत in 2012 .
The film was released in the United States and Canada  on नवम्बर 12 , 2010 , और in the संयुक्त किंगडम on नवम्बर  24 , 2010 .
It  प्राप्त ज़्यादातर अनुकूल समीक्षाएँ इससे फिल्मी आलोचकों ; it garnered a `` certified भैस  '' rating on Rotten Tomatoes based upon aggregated reviews and a rating of `` Generally favorable reviews '' at Metacritic .
The film was nominated  लिये an अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन ध्वनि संपादन at  the 83rd Academy Awards , but lost to Inception .
In photography , bracketing is  the सामान्य तकनीक of लेने अनेक  shots of the same subject using different camera settings .
Bracketing is useful and often recommended in situations that make it difficult to obtain a satisfactory image with a  सिंगल शॉट , विशेषकर जब a छोटी विभिन्नता in एक्सपोज़र  parameters has a comparatively large effect on the resulting image .
Autobracketing is automatic bracketing by using a  सेटिंग on the कैमरा to लो अनेक bracketed गोलियाँ ( in  contrast to the photographer altering the settings by hand between each shot ) .
Given the time it takes to  accomplish अनेक गोलियाँ , it is typically  , but not always , used for static subjects .
Insulated glazing ( IG ) , more commonly known as double glazing ( or double-pane , and increasingly triple  glazing/pane ) हैं दोगुना or ट्रिपल कांच खिड़की panes अलग by an एयर or अन्य  gas filled space to reduce heat transfer across a part of the building envelope .
Insulated Glass Units  हैं manufactured साथ कांच in दायरा of मोटाई  from 3 mm to 10 mm or more in special applications .
Laminated or  tempered कांच may भी be प्रयुक्त as  part of the construction .
Most units are  manufactured साथ the वही मोटाई of कांच प्रयुक्त on दोनो panes लकिन खास अनुप्रयोग ऐसे as ध्वनिक क्षीणन  or security may require wide ranges of thicknesses to be incorporated in the same unit .
A sectioned diagram of a fixed Insulated Glazed Unit ( IGU  ) , indicating the क्रमांकन सम्मेलन  used in this article .
Surface # 1 is facing outside , Surface # 2 is the inside surface of the  exterior फलक , सतह # 3 is the बाहर सतह of the आंतरिक फलक , और सतह # 4 is  the inside surface of interior pane .
The window frame is labelled # 5 , a spacer is indicated as # 6 , seals are shown in  रेड ( # 7 ) , the आतंरिक खुलासा is on the सही हाथ पक्ष  ( # 8 ) and the exterior windowsill on the left ( # 9 )
To reduce shear effects on the sealed unit ( a major cause of premature  विफलता ) , निर्माताओं  use a rule of thumb that permits a difference of 1 mm between the thickness of the panes of glass used in the unit and still maintain the warranty for the unit .
For example , a unit may be ordered with a 4 mm pane on  the exterior और a 3 mm फलक on the आंतरिक  .
These  विसंगतियाँ हैं अनुमत लिये architectural  and cost reasons .
Other combinations can be specified  और उत्पादित लकिन the निर्माता may आरक्षित the सही to सीमा the पद  of the warranty or refuse to warranty the unit altogether .
For ease of description the surfaces of a double paned unit are named according to the following convention : Surface # 1 ( facing outside ) , Surface # 2 ( inside of outside  फलक ) , सतह # 3 ( बाहर of अंदर फलक ) और सतह # 4 ( अंदर सतह of अंदर फलक  ) .
Applying the corresponding nomenclature  लिये ट्रिपल paned इकाई परिणाम in सतहों # 1 through  # 6 .
The performance  of insulating  glazing can be modified through the use of the following:
A typical installation of  insulated glazing खिड़कियाँ साथ upvc  window frames .
सेलेनियम is a रासायनिक तत्व  with symbol Se and atomic number 34 .
It is a nonmetal with properties that are  इंटरमीडिएट between those of इसके आवधिक  table column-adjacent chalcogen elements sulfur and tellurium .
It rarely  occurs in इसके elemental  state in nature , or as pure ore compounds .
Selenium ( Greek σελήνη selene meaning `` Moon '' ) was  खोजा in 1817 by jöns याक़ूब berzelius , जो विख्यात the समानता of the नई तत्व to  the previously-known tellurium ( named for the Earth ) .
सेलेनियम is मिला impurely in मेटल  sulfide ores , where it partially replaces the sulfur .
Commercially , selenium is produced as a  byproduct in the शोधन of ये ores , सबसे  often during copper production .
खनिज कि हैं pure selenide or selenate  compounds are known , but are rare .
The chief commercial uses for  सेलेनियम आज हैं in glassmaking  and in pigments .
Selenium is a  सेमीकंडक्टर और is प्रयुक्त  in photocells .
Uses in electronics , once  महत्वपूर्ण , have महरूम ज़्यादातर supplanted by  silicon semiconductor devices .
Selenium continues to be used in a few types of DC power surge  protectors और एक प्रकार of fluorescent  quantum dot .
Selenium salts are toxic in large amounts , but trace amounts are  जरुरी लिये सेल्यूलर फलन in अनेक जीवों ,  including all animals .
Selenium is a component of the antioxidant enzymes glutathione peroxidase and thioredoxin reductase (  जिससे indirectly reduce निश्चित oxidized अणुओं in पशु  and some plants ) .
it is भी मिला in तीन deiodinase एंजाइमों  , which convert one thyroid hormone to another .
Selenium requirements in  पौधे differ by प्रजाति  , with some plants requiring relatively large amounts , and others apparently requiring none .
the संयुक्त राज्य अध्यक्षीय  election of 2008 was the 56th quadrennial presidential election .
It was held on Tuesday ,  नवम्बर 4 , 2008 .
Democrat Barack Obama , then the junior Senator from Illinois ,  पराजित रिपब्लिकन जॉन मैक्केन , the वरिष्ठ  Senator from Arizona .
As the campaign progressed , the War in Iraq and outgoing Republican President George W. Bush had become increasingly  unpopular , और the major-party उम्मीदवार भागा on a मंच of बदलें और  reform .
Domestic policy and the  अर्थव्यवस्था आखिरकार उभरा as the प्रमुख विषयवस्तु in the पिछला  few months of the election campaign after the onset of the worst recession since the 1930s .
Obama would go on to win a  निर्णायक विजय over मैक्केन  in both the electoral and popular vote .
Obama received the most votes for a presidential candidate in American history , and won the popular and electoral vote by the  largest हाशिया in 12 सालो , as खूब as the largest प्रतिशत of the लोकप्रिय vote लिये a डेमोक्रेट in nearly  a half-century .
This was the  पहला u.S. अध्यक्षीय चुनाव in  which an African American was elected , having also been the first in which an African American won the nomination of either major party .
This election was also notable for being the first time in U.S. history that both major party candidates were sitting U.S . Senators , only the third time ( after 1920 and 1960 ) that  कोई बैठे u.s . सीनेटर थी निर्वाचित अध्यक्ष , और तभी the दूसरी समय कि the जीतना  President and Vice President ( Obama and Biden ) were both sitting U.S . Senators .
This was also the first election since 1952 in which neither of the major parties  ' नामांकित थी the लाज़िम अध्यक्ष or  Vice President .
The Sovereign Prince or Princess of Monaco is the  reigning monarch और सिर of राज्य of the principality  of Monaco .
All princes  or राजकुमारियों have officially लिया the नाम of  the House of Grimaldi , but have belonged to various other houses ( Goyon de Matignon , Polignac ) in male line .
the reigning प्रिंस  is Albert II .
Visualization of fragmentation and  तब of defragmentation
In the maintenance of file systems , defragmentation is a process that  reduces the राशि of fragmentation  .
It does this by physically organizing the contents of the mass storage device used to  स्टोर फाइलें into the smallest क्रमांक of संलग्न  regions ( fragments ) .
It also attempts to  बनाएँ larger regions of फ़्री स्पेस using  compaction to impede the return of fragmentation .
Some defragmentation utilities try to keep smaller files within a single directory  साथ , as वे हैं प्रायः पहुँचा in अनुक्रम .
defragmentation is लाभदायक और प्रासंगिक  to file systems on electromechanical disk drives .
the गति of the मुश्किल ड्राइव 's read/write  heads over different areas of the disk when accessing fragmented files is slower , compared to accessing the entire contents of a non-fragmented file sequentially without moving the read/write heads to seek other fragments .
A service-level agreement ( SLA  ) is a भाग of a सेवा अनुबंध जहाँ  a service is formally defined .
In practice , the term SLA is sometimes used to  refer to the contracted डिलीवरी समय ( of the  service or performance ) .
As an example , internet service providers will commonly include service level agreements within the  शर्तें of उनके अनुबंध साथ ग्राहक to define  the level ( s ) of service being sold in plain language terms .
In this case the SLA will typically have a technical  परिभाषा in शर्तें of औसत समय between असफलताओं ( mtbf ) , औसत समय to मरम्मत  or mean time to recovery ( MTTR ) ; various data rates ; throughput ; jitter ; or similar measurable details .
Union Station is  a पूर्व खरीदारी मॉल in  Union City , Georgia , in southwest metro Atlanta adjacent to Interstate 85 .
After new ownership and renovations in 2006 , the name was changed from  शैनन southpark मॉल in 2007 to संघ  Station Mall .
A  पिछला नवीकरण थी  done in the late 1990s .
The  मॉल रै महरूम बंद  since November 2010 .
This map shows the  संलग्न संयुक्त राज्य और , in insets at the निम्नतर  left , the two states that are not contiguous .
The contiguous United States are the 48 adjoining U.S. states on the continent of North America that are  दक्षिण of कनाडा और उत्तर of मैक्सिको , प्लस the ज़िला of  Columbia .
The term excludes the states of  अलास्का और हवाई , और सब off-shore u.S. territories  and possessions , such as Puerto Rico .
Together , the 48 contiguous  राज्य और d.C. occupy a संयुक्त  area of , which is 1.58 % of the total surface area of the Earth .
Of this , is  जमीन , composing 83.65  % of U.S. land area .
Officially , is  जल क्षेत्रफल ,  composing 62.66 % of the nation 's water area .
The 2010 census  जनसांख्यिकी थी 306,675,006 , composing 99.33 % of the स्वदेश 's जनसांख्यिकी , और a घनत्व of 103.639 inhabitants/sq  mi ( 40.015/km2 ) , compared to 87.264/sq mi ( 33.692/km2 ) for the nation as a whole .
`` Why '' is the title of a  सोंग अंकित by  American country band Rascal Flatts .
It is the  तीसरा सिंगल इससे उनके छठे स्टुडियो  album , Unstoppable .
It was released to  रेडियो स्टेशन on सितंबर 29 , 2009 और debuted at # 44 on the u.s . बिलबोर्ड  US Billboard Hot Country Songs chart for the week of October 10 , 2009 .
It  थी लिखा by  Rob Mathes and Allen Shamblin .
Utilization management is the evaluation of the appropriateness , medical need and  दक्षता of स्वास्थ्य परवाह सेवाएं प्रक्रियाओं और सुविधाएं according to स्थापित  criteria or guidelines and under the provisions of an applicable health benefits plan .
typically it शामिल नई क्रियाएँ  or decisions based upon the analysis of a case .
Utilization management describes proactive procedures , including  निर्वहन नियोजन , संयुक्त नियोजन , pre-certification  and clinical case appeals .
It also covers proactive processes , such as concurrent  नैदानिक समीक्षाएँ और पीर समीक्षाएँ , as खूब  as appeals introduced by the provider , payer or patient .
As  pre-certification और संयुक्त पुनर्विलोकन of मामले grew , utilization  management spun out of utilization review .
While not synonymous  , स्वास्थ्य परवाह पेशेवर tend to उपयोग  the terms as interchangeable .
The  अंतर is utilization प्रबन्धन is और intends to मैनेज स्वास्थ्य परवाह मामले efficiently और लागत  effectively before and during health care administration .
utilization पुनर्विलोकन is अधिक considering whether स्वास्थ्य  care was appropriately applied after it was administered .
There are  चार मौलिक तकनीकों in utilization  management:
माँग प्रबन्धन
utilization पुनर्विलोकन
Case  प्रबन्धन
Disease  प्रबन्धन
The Outsiders is a  coming-of-age अनोखा by S. E. hinton , पहला प्रकाशित  in 1967 by Viking Press .
Hinton was 15 when she started  लिखने the अनोखा , लकिन किया सबसे of the कार्य जब वो थी सोलह  and a junior in high school .
Hinton was 18  जब the किताब थी  published .
The book follows two rival groups , the Greasers and the Socs ( pronounced by the author as , short for Socials ) , who are  विभाजित by उनके socioeconomic  status .
The book takes place in Tulsa ,  ओक्लाहोमा , in 1965 , लकिन it is never  stated in the book .
A film adaptation was produced in 1983 , and a little-known short-lived  टेलीविज़न श्रेणी appeared in 1990 , picking up जहाँ  the movie left off .
The United States House  of प्रतिनिधि is एक of the दो घरों of the संयुक्त  States Congress ( a bicameral legislature ) .
It is frequently  referred to  as the House .
The other house is  the सीनेट  .
The composition and powers of the House are established in Article One of the  संयुक्त राज्य संविधान .
The major power of the House is to pass federal legislation that affects the entire country although its bills must also be passed by the Senate and further agreed to by the U.S. President before  बनने विधि ( जबतक दोनो the हाउस और सीनेट  re-pass the legislation with a two-thirds majority in each chamber ) .
The House has several exclusive powers : the power to initiate revenue bills , to impeach  officials , और to elect the u.S.  President in case there is no majority in the Electoral College .
Each U.S.  राज्य is represented in the हाउस in proportion  to its population but is entitled to at least one representative .
the सबसे populous  state , California , currently has 53 representatives .
The total number of  मतदान प्रतिनिधि is  fixed by law at 435 .
Each  प्रतिनिधि serves  for a two-year term .
The Speaker of the United States House of  प्रतिनिधि , जो presides over the कक्ष  , is elected by the members of the House , and is therefore traditionally the leader of the House Democratic Caucus or the House Republican Conference , whichever party has more voting members .
The House meets in the  दक्षिण wing of the संयुक्त  States Capitol .
A supply chain is actually a complex and dynamic  सप्लाई और माँग संजाल  .
( cf .  wieland/wallenburg  , 2011 )
A supply chain is a system of  संगठन , लोगों , क्रियाएँ , सूचना , और संसाधन शामिल in चलती a उत्पाद  or service from supplier to customer .
Supply chain activities  रूपांतरण प्राकृतिक संसाधन , कच्चा  materials , and components into a finished product that is delivered to the end customer .
In sophisticated supply chain systems , used products may re-enter the supply chain at  कोई पाइंट जहाँ अवशेष मान is recyclable .
Supply chains  कड़ी मान जंजीरों  .
`` Purple Haze '' is a song written and recorded  by जिमि हेंड्रिक्स in 1967 , released as the दूसरी सिंगल by the जिमि हेंड्रिक्स अनुभव  in both the United Kingdom and the United States .
It later appeared on the American version of  the बैंड 's 1967 एल्बम  Are You Experienced .
``  जामुनी haze '' रै become एक of the `` archetypical  psychedelic drug songs of the sixties '' .
``  जामुनी haze 's '' गिटार virtuosic  techniques would be emulated by many metal guitarists .
A close up picture of a  गैंडा स्किन  .
Skin  is the नरम बाहरी  covering of vertebrates .
Other animal coverings such as the arthropod  बहि have अलग  developmental origin , structure and chemical composition .
The  क्रियाशील cutaneous अर्थात् ``  of the skin '' ( from Latin cutis , skin ) .
In mammals , the skin is the largest organ of the integumentary  प्रणाली बना up of अनेक परतों of ectodermal ऊतक , और गार्ड the underlying  muscles , bones , ligaments and internal organs .
स्किन of a अलग प्रकृति exists  in amphibians , reptiles , and birds .
All mammals have some hair on  उनके स्किन , भी समुद्री स्तनधारियों  which appear to be hairless .
The  स्किन अंतरफलक साथ the पर्यावरण  and is the first line of defense from external factors .
For example , the skin plays a key role in protecting  the देह विरूद्ध pathogens और excessive जल  loss .
Its  अन्य कृत्यों  are insulation , temperature regulation , sensation , and the production of vitamin D folates .
severely क्षतिग्रस्त स्किन may चंगा by forming  scar tissue .
This is  sometimes discoloured और  depigmented .
The thickness of  स्किन भी varies इससे स्थान  to location on an organism .
In humans for example , the skin  स्तिथ अंतर्गत the आँखें और around the eyelids is the thinnest  skin in the body at 0.5 mm thick , and is one of the first areas to show signs of aging such as `` crows feet '' and wrinkles .
The skin on the palms  और the सोल्स of the फीट is 4 mm मोटा  and the thickest skin in the body .
Fur  is घना  hair .
Primarily , fur augments the insulation the skin provides but can also serve  as a द्वितीयक यौन characteristic or as  camouflage .
On some animals , the skin is very hard and thick , and can  be processed to बनाएँ  leather .
Reptiles and fish have hard  सुरक्षात्मक तराजू on उनके स्किन  for protection , and birds have hard feathers , all made of tough β- keratins .
Amphibian skin is not a strong barrier to  ड्योढ़ी of रसायन और is प्रायः विषय to परासरण  and diffusive forces .
For  उदाहरण , a मेंढक बैठे in an anesthetic समाधान होता be sedated  quickly , as the chemical diffuses through its skin .
थामस स्कॉट
The Rev . Thomas Scott ( 1747-1821 ) was an influential preacher and author who is  प्रधानतया ज्ञात लिये उसके best-selling कार्य a commentary on the पूरे बाइबल और the  Force of Truth , and as one of the founders of the Church Missionary Society .
Daniel Radcliffe , who portrays Harry Potter , has been  the प्रतीक of the फिल्मी श्रेणी चूंकि the रिलीज of the पहला फिल्मी  in 2001 .
Some of the most  प्रसिद्ध अभिनेताओं of the संयुक्त किंगडम और आयरलैंड have voiced or portrayed वर्ण  appearing in the Harry Potter film series based on the book series by J. K. Rowling .
Daniel Radcliffe , Rupert Grint and Emma Watson have played Harry Potter , Ron  वीज़्ली और हर्माइनी ग्रेंजर in सब the films  .
When they were cast only Radcliffe had  previously acted in a फिल्मी  .
Complementing them on screen are such actors as Helena Bonham Carter , Jim Broadbent , John Cleese , Robbie Coltrane , Warwick Davis , Ralph Fiennes , Michael Gambon  , ब्रेंडन gleeson , रिचर्ड ग्रीफिथ , रिचर्ड हैरिस , जॉन ठेस , जेसन isaacs , miriam margolyes , हेलेन mccrory , गेरी oldman , एलन rickman , फिओना शॉ , मैगी स्मिथ , टिमोथी  Spall , Imelda Staunton , David Thewlis , Emma Thompson , and Julie Walters , among others .
Thirteen actors have appeared as  the वही अक्षर  in all eight films of the franchise .
Some well-known British  अभिनेताओं जो have नहीं appeared in the श्रेणी ,  are asked in jest why they have not been cast .
When David Yates was directing the fifth film , Bill Nighy ,  जो था previously collaborated साथ येट्स on तीन of उसके टेलीविज़न प्रोजेक्ट , कहा कि he joked साथ  Yates that maybe now he would n't be the only actor in England who had n't been in Harry Potter .
`` But nobody called '' ,  nighy added  .
But in 2009 , Yates cast Nighy as Minister of Magic Rufus Scrimgeour  in deathly hallows  .
Nighy said , `` I am no longer the only  अंग्रेज़ी कर्ता नहीं to be in हैरी कुम्हार  and I am very pleased . ''
Jude Law has quipped ,  `` nobody 's  asked me .
I was a bit  too बूढ़ा लिये हैरी  '' .
When a reporter compared potions professor Horace Slughorn 's  obsession साथ प्रसिद्ध names to the श्रेणी ' कनेक्शन to `` प्रत्येक notable अंग्रेजों कर्ता , '' जिम broadbent , जो plays  Slughorn said , `` Well , not every actor gets invited .
I know  कुछ जो हैं स्टिल  waiting . ''
With the exception of Chris Columbus , each director has had a cameo appearance in his respective film : Alfonso Cuarón appears as a wizard holding a candle during a scene at The Three Broomsticks in Prisoner of Azkaban ; Mike Newell is  सुना briefly as the रेडियो प्रस्तुतकर्ता in फ़्रैंक ब्राइस  's house in Goblet of Fire ; and David Yates features as a wizard within a magical moving portrait in Order of the Phoenix .
निर्माता दाउद heyman भी makes a कैमियो रूप  as a wizard featured within a magical moving portrait in the third film , Prisoner of Azkaban .
J. K. Rowling gave a speech during the world premiere of the final film in  the series— हैरी कुम्हार और the deathly hallows भाग 2 —on 7 जुलाई 2011 in लंदन ,  England .
She announced that she could never have dreamt of the  प्रतिभाशाली अभिनेताओं और अभिनेत्रियों जो have appeared in सब  the Harry Potter movies .
Rowling also  घोषित कि वहीँ हैं सात हैरी कुम्हार फिल्मी श्रेणी डाल सदस्यों , जो वो refers to as  `` The Big Seven '' , they are Daniel Radcliffe , Rupert Grint , Emma Watson , Tom Felton , Matthew Lewis , Evanna Lynch and Bonnie Wright .
The list below is sorted by film and character , as  कुछ वर्ण have महरूम portrayed by  multiple actors .
कुंजी
(  v ) indicates  the actor or actress lent only his or her voice for his or her film character
( y ) indicates the  कर्ता or अभिनेत्री portrayed the भूमिका in a फ्लैशबैक झाँकी  or when the character was young .
( f ) indicates the actor or actress did  नहीं appear in कोई नई फुटेज लिये the  film ; footage from an earlier film or films was used .
A light grey cell ( such as the one in the `` Charity Burbage '' row in the `` Philosopher 's  स्टोन '' कालम ) indicates the  character was not in the film adaptation .
a twelve-step कार्यक्रम is a नियत of guiding सिद्धान्त ( स्वीकृत by सदस्यों  as 'spiritual principles , ' based on the approved literature ) outlining a course of action for recovery from , compulsion , or other behavioral problems .
Originally  प्रस्तावित by alcoholics बेनाम ( aa ) as a विधि of रिकवरी इससे  alcoholism , the Twelve Steps were first published in the book Alcoholics Anonymous : The Story of How More Than One Hundred Men Have Recovered from Alcoholism in 1939 .
The method  थी तब adapted और  became the foundation of other twelve-step programs .
As  summarized by the अमरीकी मनोवैज्ञानिक  Association , the process involves the following:
admitting that one can not control  एक 's व्यसन or मजबूरी ;
recognizing a higher power that  can दे शक्ति  ;
examining  पास्ट त्रुटियाँ साथ the सहायता of  a sponsor ( experienced member ) ;
making amends  लिये ये  errors ;
learning to live a new life  साथ a नई कोड of बर्ताव  ;
helping अन्य जो suffer  from the same addictions or compulsions .
Witness impeachment , in the  विधि of प्रमाण of the संयुक्त राज्य , is the प्रक्रम of कॉलिंग into  question the credibility of an individual who is testifying in a trial .
The Federal  नियम of प्रमाण contain the  rules governing impeachment in federal courts .
Party leaders and whips of the United  राज्य हाउस of प्रतिनिधि हैं निर्वाचित by उनके संबंधित पार्टियों  in a closed-door caucus by secret ballot and are also known as floor leaders .
The U.S. House of Representatives does not officially use the  पद `` अल्पसंख्यक नेता '' हालांकि the मीडिया अक्सर  do .
The House instead uses the terms `` Republican Leader '' or  `` लोकतांत्रिक नेता '' depending on जिससे पार्टी holds a अल्पसंख्यक of सीटे  .
The current House  बहुमत नेता is रिपब्लिकन eric cantor , जबकि the  current House Minority Leader is Democrat Nancy Pelosi .
The current House Majority Whip is Republican Kevin McCarthy , while  the वर्तमान हाउस अल्पसंख्यक चाबुक is डेमोक्रेट steny hoyer  .
following the outbreak of संसार युद्ध i in  1914 , the German Army opened the Western Front by first invading Luxembourg and Belgium , then gaining military control of important industrial regions in France .
The  tide of the अग्रिम थी dramatically  turned with the Battle of the Marne .
Following the race to the sea , both sides  खोदा in साथ a meandering लकीर of fortified trenches , stretching  from the North Sea to the Swiss frontier with France .
This line remained essentially  अपरिवर्तित लिये सबसे  of the war .
Between 1915 and 1917  वहीँ यहूद अनेक प्रमुख offensives  along this front .
The attacks employed massive artillery  bombardments और massed infantry अग्रिम  .
However , a combination of entrenchments , machine gun  nests , कंटीले तार , और तोपखाने repeatedly  inflicted severe casualties on the attackers and counterattacking defenders .
As a result , no significant  अग्रिम यहूद बना  .
Among the most costly of these offensives were the Battle of Verdun with a combined [  अनुमानित ] 700,000 मुर्दे , the बैटल of the somme साथ अधिक than [ an अनुमानित  ] million casualties , and the Battle of Passchendaele with roughly [ an estimated ] 600,000 casualties .
In an  प्रयत्न to ब्रेक the  deadlock , this front saw the introduction of new military technology , including poison gas , aircraft and tanks .
But it was only after the  अपनाना of improved tactics कि कुछ उपाधि of  mobility was restored .
The German Spring  अप्रिय of 1918 थी बना संभावित  by the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk that marked the end of the conflict on the Eastern Front .
Using  the recently-introduced घुसपैठ tactics , the जर्मनी  armies advanced nearly to the west , which marked the deepest advance by either side since 1914 and very nearly succeeded in forcing a breakthrough .
In spite of the generally stagnant nature of this  सामने , इस थिएटर होता prove निर्णायक  .
The inexorable advance of the Allied armies during the second half of 1918 persuaded the German  कमांडरों कि शिकस्त थी अपरिहार्य , और the सरकारी थी मजबूर to  sue for conditions of an armistice .
The terms of peace were agreed upon  साथ the हस्ताक्षर of the  Treaty of Versailles in 1919 .
The following is a list of recurring  और नाबालिग वर्ण in the डिज़्नी  Channel Original Series The Suite Life of Zack & Cody .
These  वर्ण यहूद regularly घुमाया  , often disappearing for long periods during the series .
The following list of  वर्ण रै महरूम sorted  alphabetically , by first name .
Some of the  वर्ण था no पिछला नाम और सबसे यहूद commonly referred to by उनके  first name so this appeared to be the most logical method .
In the case of Chef Paolo , who had no  ज्ञात पहला नाम , वे have महरूम  listed by title .
The First  महिला of the संयुक्त राज्य  ( FLOTUS ) is the hostess of the White House .
Because this position is  traditionally भर by the बीवी of the अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य , the  title is most often applied to the wife of a sitting president .
the वर्तमान  First Lady is Michelle Obama .
After her husband Barack Obama was re-elected on November 6 , 2012 , she is  अनुसूचित to serve जबतक जनवरी 20 , 2017  .
सेप्टिक शॉक is a चिकित्सा कंडीशन as a परिणाम  of severe infection and sepsis , though the microbe may be systemic or localized to a particular site .
It can  कारण अनेक  organ dysfunction syndrome ( formerly known as multiple organ failure ) and death .
Its most common victims are children , immunocompromised individuals , and the elderly , as  उनके प्रतिरक्षा प्रणालियों can नहीं सौदे साथ the संक्रमण as effectively as  those of healthy adults .
अक्सर , मरीजों कष्ट  from septic shock are cared for in intensive care units .
The mortality rate  इससे सेप्टिक शॉक is लगभग  25–50 % .
Kevin  brereton ( born फ़रवरी 20 , 1972 ) , बेहतर ज्ञात by उसके स्टेज  name k-os ( ; `` chaos '' ) , is a Canadian rapper , singer , songwriter and record producer .
His given name may also be cited as Kheaven ,  a स्पेलिंग he बाद अपनाया  .
The alias `` k-os '' ,  spelled साथ a निम्नतर मामला `` k '' , थी intended to be कम आक्रामक than the pseudonyms of अन्य  rappers whose names were all upper case , such as KRS-One .
It is an acronym for `` Knowledge of Self , '' although in a later  इंटरव्यू he कहा कि it originally stood लिये `` केविन  's Original Sound . '' k-os ' music incorporates a wide variety of music genres , including rap , funk , rock , and reggae .
The lyrics frequently focus on promoting a `` positive message '' while at times expressing  आलोचना of मुख्यधारा हिप हॉप संस्कृति 's obsession साथ धन , कीर्ति और glorification of हिंसा  .
A musician as well as a producer , k-os has  लिखा और उत्पादित nearly प्रत्येक  part of all four of his albums .
k-os  प्रायः performs साथ a सजीव बैंड  , something that is uncommon in the hip hop genre .
He sometimes plays  गिटार और कुंजीपटल दोनो  during live performances and in the studio .
k-os received his first  musical एक्सपोज़र साथ the सिंगल  `` Musical Essence '' , released in 1993 .
After the release of his second single `` Rise Like the Sun '' in 1996 , he withdrew from the industry  क्युकी he थी असंतुष्ट साथ उसके musical  style .
He reappeared briefly in 1999 and released  उसके डेब्यू एल्बम निकास in 2002  .
The album  प्राप्त धनात्मक समीक्षाएँ लकिन  sold relatively few copies .
He released his second album Joyful Rebellion in  2004 , जिससे प्राप्त प्लेटिनम  status in Canada .
A third album , , was released in 2006  और भी गई प्लेटिनम  .
उसके चौथी  album , Yes !
, was  released  in 2009 .
His fifth album  ब्लैक on सुनहरे थी  released in 2013 .
The official 2007 edition of  the ucc .
भी the गोपनीय  rough drafts of the UCC were saved and published as a 10-volume set .
The Uniform Commercial Code ( UCC or the Code ) , first  प्रकाशित in 1952 , is एक of a क्रमांक of वर्दी अधिनियमों कि have महरूम promulgated  in conjunction with efforts to harmonize the law of sales and other commercial transactions in all 50 states within the United States of America .
Multi-pitch climbing is the ascent of climbing  रूट साथ एक or अधिक stops at a belay  station .
Each section of  वास्तविक चढ़ाई between stops at the  belay stations is called a pitch .
The leader ascends  the पिच , रखकर गियर और  stopping to anchor themselves to the belay station .
The reason  लिये the stops can be संकल्पित by  choice , convention or necessity .
For  example:
The  रस्सी is too छोटी to do the संपूर्ण  route in one pitch ( necessity ) .
The leader has run  आउट of सुरक्षात्मक गियर  ( necessity ) .
There is a convenient protectable ledge , or fixed  bolts लगाई by पिछला चढना , at  the location for a belay station ( convention ) .
The leader chooses to rest  or एक्सचेंज लीड पहले the  next section of the climb ( choice ) .
The general purpose of these stops is to allow the second to ascend to the point of the lead  climber जबकि collecting the सुरक्षात्मक गियर इससे the  route in the course of the lead climber 's ascent .
At the belay station , the protective gear is collected , possibly exchanged to a new  नेता , और the नेता of the अगला पिच ascends the रूट  .
A diagram  प्रर्दशित an i गठन  on offense and a 4-3 Formation on defense
In American football , each team has eleven players on  the फ़ील्ड at एक समय  .
The specific role that a player  takes on the फ़ील्ड is पुकारा  their position .
Under the modern rules of American football , teams are allowed unlimited subsititutions , that is  टीमों may बदलें कोई क्रमांक of खिलाड़ी  after any play .
This has resulted in the development of three `` platoons '' of players , the offense ( the team with the ball , who is  trying to स्कोर ) , the रक्षा ( the टोली trying to prevent the अन्य टोली इससे स्कोरिंग , और to लो the बॉल इससे  them ) , and the special teams ( who play in kicking situations ) .
भीतर those platoons , विभिन्न विशिष्ट  positions exist depending on what the player 's main job is .
The Controlled Substances Act ( CSA ) was enacted into law by the  कॉंग्रेस of the संयुक्त राज्य as शीर्षक  II of the Comprehensive Drug Abuse Prevention and Control Act of 1970 .
The CSA is the federal U.S. drug policy under which the manufacture , importation ,  कब्ज़ा , उपयोग और वितरण of निश्चित substances is regulated  .
The Act also  परोसा as the नेशनल implementing विधान लिये the सिंगल  Convention on Narcotic Drugs .
The legislation created five  schedules ( classifications ) , साथ varying योग्यता  for a substance to be included in each .
Two federal agencies , the Drug Enforcement Administration and the Food and Drug Administration , determine which substances are added to or removed from the various schedules , though the statute passed by Congress created the initial listing , and Congress has sometimes scheduled other  substances through विधान ऐसे as the hillory J. farias और सामन्था reid date-rape रोकथाम अधिनियम of 2000 , जिससे लगाई गामा hydroxybutyrate in अनुसूची i . वर्गीकरण  decisions are required to be made on criteria including potential for abuse ( an undefined term ) , currently accepted medical use in treatment in the United States , and international treaties .
The Wayne Route 23 Transit Center is  a नई जर्सी पारगमन park-and-ride स्टेशन in वेन , नई जर्सी साथ the montclair-boonton लकीर  that provides bus service to New York City and various other points in the area as well as Montclair-Boonton Line train service to New York , Hoboken , and intermediate points along the line between Hackettstown and Montclair State University .
It is located off of the  southbound गलियों of नई जर्सी रूट 23 on वेस्ट बेल्ट सड़क ,  near the interchange where Route 23 , Interstate 80 , and U.S. Route 46 meet , across from the Willowbrook Mall .
The station opened in January 2008 and has 1,000  पार्किंग स्पेसेस .
New Jersey Transit intends for this combined rail and bus station to become an ``  interceptor स्टेशन , '' कि होगा सहायता relieve the habitual जमघट at  the West Belt Road Interchange , where the three major highways meet .
In addition , the construction of the  स्टेशन थी meant to भी आसानी the जमघट at कया थी तब रूट 23 पार्क & सवारी , a बस डिपो on रूट 23 उत्तर कि रै  since been renamed Mother 's Park & Ride , and the Willowbrook Mall Park & Ride ; the now-Mother 's site had limited parking while NJT was having trouble with overfull parking areas at Willowbrook .
The Wayne Township bus garage is located on the  विपरीत पक्ष of रूट  23 .
वहीँ रै महरूम a प्रस्ताव to निर्माण a पार्किंग डेक  with another thousand spots and develop the land at the station .
In addition to  montclair-boonton  trains , the Transit Center is served by the following New Jersey Transit bus lines:
75  to न्यूर्क  Penn Station and Butler
194 to Port Authority Bus  टर्मिनल और  Butler/Newfoundland
198 to  बंदरगाहों प्राधिकार बस टर्मिनल  and William Paterson University
324 to  बंदरगाहों प्राधिकार  and Wayne Route 23
748 to  willowbrook  Mall and Paterson
The at sign @ is also  commonly पुकारा the at प्रतीक , ampersat , apetail  or commercial at in English—and less commonly a wide range of other terms .
the फैक्ट कि वहीँ is no सिंगल शब्द in अंग्रेज़ी लिये the प्रतीक रै prompted कुछ लेखक to  use the French arobase or Spanish and Portuguese arroba—or to coin new words such as asperand , ampersat—but none of these has achieved wide currency .
Originally an accounting and commercial invoice abbreviation meaning `` at the rate of '' ( e.g . 7 widgets  @ $ 2 = $ 14 ) , it थी नहीं शामिल on the  keyboard of the earliest commercially successful typewriters , but was on at least one 1889 model and the very successful Underwood models from the `` Underwood No . 5 '' in 1900 onward .
It is now  universally शामिल on  computer keyboards .
in हाल सालो , इसके अर्थ रै grown to शामिल the भाव  of being `` located at , '' `` and , '' or `` directed at '' , especially in email addresses and social media , particularly Twitter .
The  चिह्नित is एनकोडेड  at .
The Catcher in the  rye is a 1951  novel by J. D. Salinger .
Originally published for  वयस्कों , it रै चूंकि become लोकप्रिय साथ adolescent  readers for its themes of teenage angst and alienation .
It  रै महरूम अनूदित into लगभग सब  of the world 's major languages .
Around 250,000 copies are sold  प्रत्येक साल साथ कुल  sales of more than 65 million books .
The novel 's protagonist and antihero , Holden  caulfield , रै become an प्रतीक लिये teenage विद्रोह  .
The novel was included on Times 2005  सूची of the 100 बेहतरीन english-language novels लिखा चूंकि 1923 , और it थी नामित  by Modern Library and its readers as one of the 100 best English-language novels of the 20th century .
It has been  अक्सर challenged in the संयुक्त राज्य  and other countries for its liberal use of profanity and portrayal of sexuality .
It also deals with complex issues  of पहचान , belonging  , connection , and alienation .
Skeletal  मांसपेशियां होमो  sapiens
इस is a तालिका  of muscles of the human anatomy .
There are approximately 642 skeletal muscles within the typical human , and almost every muscle constitutes one part of a pair of identical bilateral muscles  , मिला on दोनो पहलू , resulting in लगभग 320 pairs of मांसपेशियां , as प्रस्तुत in  this article .
Nevertheless , the exact number is difficult  to define क्युकी अलग स्त्रोत समूह मांसपेशियां  differently , e.g . regarding what is defined as different parts of a single muscle or as several muscles .
उदाहरण दायरा  from 640 to 850 .
The muscles of the human body can  be categorized into a क्रमांक of समूह जिससे शामिल मांसपेशियां relating to the सिर और गर्दन , मांसपेशियां of the धड़  or trunk , muscles of the upper limbs , and muscles of the lower limbs .
The action refers to the action  of प्रत्येक मांसपेशी इससे the  standard anatomical position .
in अन्य  positions , other actions may be performed .
Bad Girls Club ( BGC ) is an American reality television  श्रेणी निर्मित by जोनाथन मरे लिये the ऑक्सीजन टेलीविज़न  station .
The show centers on seven feisty and mischievous women with different  पृष्ठभूमि और personalities , जो have a क्रमांक  of psychological and behavioral problems .
They are introduced to the show off their  घातक बर्ताव और  accomplish specific goals .
The cast , deemed `` bad girls '' , enjoy a luxurious  जीवनशैली in a ठीक mansion  for three months , during which they must obey specified rules .
Their lives inside – and outside – of the  हाउस हैं chronicled और अंकित  by the production team .
The Bad Girls Club is  ब्रॉडकास्ट in पाँच देशों ( संयुक्त राज्य , नीदरलैंड्स  , Australia , Hungary , and Sweden ) .
it रै प्राप्त ऋणात्मक  reviews from critics , who believe the show promotes violence by adolescent viewers .
Furthermore , several cast members made  विवादास्पद remarks जिससे outraged  many viewers .
The format of the show has  बदला इससे जल्दी  seasons .
If a `` bad girl '' breaks a rule , she is  evicted इससे the दिखाएँ और , if it is जल्दी in the ऋतु , replaced  by a new `` bad girl '' .
There have been nine complete seasons of The Bad Girls  क्लबों , साथ the दसवाँ ऋतु फिलहाल  airing .
The fourth season had the highest ratings in the show  's इतिहास , बनने इसके `` भेदन ऋतु  '' .
There have been  तीन spin-offs of  The Bad Girls Club .
One of them , Love Games : Bad Girls Need Love Too  , जहाँ पास्ट डाल सदस्यों तलाश  true love , has gained high ratings .
Oxygen has also  released a मोबाईल खेल , कॉमिक स्ट्रिप और  merchandise to promote the show .
Of the 92 contestants , Kerry Harvick ( of  ऋतु एक ) थी a कामयाब देश सिंगर पहले the  show .
Tanisha Thomas ( of season two ) later  hosted ऑक्सीजन 's  OxygenLive !
and the subsequent seasons of Love Games : Bad  लड़कियों need प्रेम  Too .
Thomas , who has been dubbed the `` godmother '' to  सब प्रतियोगी , रै उसके अपना टेलीविज़न  documentary entitled Tanisha Gets Married .
as of ऋतु 8 वो 's महरूम  the host of the reunion specials .
the आयोवा सीनेट is the  upper house of the Iowa General Assembly .
There are 50 seats in the Iowa Senate  , representing 50 single-member जिले आरपार the राज्य  with populations of approximately 60,927 per constituency , .
Each Senate district  is रचित of  two House districts .
the सीनेट meets  at the Iowa State Capitol in Des Moines .
Unlike the lower house  , the आयोवा हाउस of प्रतिनिधि , सीनेटरों serve four-year शर्तें  , with half of the Senate staggered for re-election every two years .
There are no  पद हद लिये  the Senate .
mechanical  repair
Maintenance , repair , and operations ( MRO ) or maintenance , repair , and  overhaul involves फिक्सिंग कोई sort of mechanical  , plumbing or electrical device should it become out of order or broken ( known as repair , unscheduled or casualty maintenance ) .
It also includes performing routine actions which keep the  यंत्र in working अनुक्रम ( ज्ञात as अनुसूचित  maintenance ) or prevent trouble from arising ( preventive maintenance ) .
MRO may be defined as , ``  सब क्रियाएँ जिससे have the उद्देश्य of retaining or restoring an मद in  or to a state in which it can perform its required function .
The  क्रियाएँ शामिल the संयोजन of सब  technical and corresponding administrative , managerial , and supervision actions . ''
MRO operations can be categorised by whether the product remains the property of the customer , i.e . a service is being offered , or whether  the उत्पाद is खरीदा by the reprocessing संगठन और बेची to कोई ग्राहक wishing to मेक the खरीदें ( guadette , 2002 ) .
In the former case it  may be a backshop  operation within a larger organisation or smaller operation .
The former of these  represents a बंद लूप सप्लाई कड़ी और  usually has the scope of maintenance , repair or of the product .
The  latter of the categorisations is an खोलें लूप सप्लाई  chain and is typified by refurbishment and remanufacture .
the प्रमुख characteristic of the बंद लूप प्रणाली is कि  the demand for a product is matched with the supply of a used product .
Neglecting asset write-offs and exceptional activities the total population of the  उत्पाद between the ग्राहक  and the service provider remains constant .
Prince William , Duke of Cambridge ( William Arthur Philip Louis ;  born 21 जून 1982 ) , is the elder बेटे of चार्ल्स  , Prince of Wales , and Diana , Princess of Wales , and third-eldest grandchild of Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip , Duke of Edinburgh .
He is second in the line of succession , behind his father , to the thrones of sixteen independent sovereign states known as the  राष्ट्रमंडल realms : the संयुक्त किंगडम , कनाडा , ऑस्ट्रेलिया , नई जीलैंड , जमैका , बारबाडोस , the बहामा , हरा  , Papua New Guinea , the Solomon Islands , Tuvalu , Saint Lucia , Saint Vincent and the Grenadines , Belize , Antigua and Barbuda , and Saint Kitts and Nevis .
Prince William was educated at four schools in the United Kingdom and obtained a  उपाधि इससे the विश्वविद्यालयों of st एंड्रयूज  .
He spent parts of a  गैप साल in चिली , बेलीज़ , तंजानिया  , and Kenya where he has lived and holidayed several times .
Prince William has  भी लिया kiswahili  studies at universities in Kenya and Tanzania .
He was commissioned as  a लेफ्टिनेंट in the ब्लूज़ और रॉयल्स रेजीमेंट of the household प्यादे  —serving with his brother Prince Harry —and , two years later , earned his wings by completing pilot training at Royal Air Force College Cranwell .
In 2009 , he transferred to the Royal Air Force , was promoted to Flight  लेफ्टिनेंट और underwent हेलीकाप्टर उड़ती प्रशिक्षण in अनुक्रम to become a full-time पायलट  with the Search and Rescue Force .
In 2010 , he  समाप्त उसके सामान्य और special-to-type  helicopter training and went on to RAF Valley on No . 22 Squadron performing co-pilot duties on board a Sea King search and rescue helicopter .
Prince William married his longtime girlfriend ,  कैथरीन मिडलटन , on 29 अप्रैल 2011  at Westminster Abbey .
Hours prior to his wedding , Prince  विलियम थी निर्मित ड्यूक of कैम्ब्रिज , अर्ल of strathearn  , and Baron Carrickfergus .
DeAndre Cortez Way ( born July 28 , 1990 ) , better known by his stage name Soulja Boy Tell 'Em , or simply Soulja Boy ,  is an अमरीकी rapper , रिकार्ड निर्माता , कर्ता , और उद्योगों  .
In September 2007 ,  उसके सिंगल `` crank कि ( soulja  Boy ) `` reached number one on the Billboard Hot 100 .
The  सिंगल थी initially self-published on the अंतरजाल  , and it later became a number-one hit in the United States for seven non-consecutive weeks starting in September 2007 .
On August 17 Way was listed at # 18 on the Forbes list of Hip-Hop Cash  किंग्स of 2010 कमाई $ 7 लाख लिये  that year .
Way has  फिलहाल released तीन स्टुडियो एल्बम और एक स्वतंत्र एल्बम : उसके डेब्यू  studio album Souljaboytellem.com ( 2007 ) was certified platinum by the RIAA .
However , his next two albums , iSouljaBoyTellem ( 2008 ) and The DeAndre Way ( 2010  ) किया नहीं मैच the वाणिज्यिक कामयाबी of उसके डेब्यू , the latter तभी selling 100,000  copies , despite the success of several singles across both albums , such as `` Kiss Me Thru the Phone `` and `` Turn My Swag On `` ( iSouljaBoyTellem ) and `` Pretty Boy Swag `` ( The DeAndre Way ) .
This was mainly due to negotiation problems with Interscope Records which  meant a सीमित राशि of रिकॉर्ड यहूद बना उपलब्धियाँ to  the public .
As of 2011 , Way has confirmed he is working on his fourth  स्टुडियो एल्बम , हकदार यूएसए ड्रे , जिससे होगा be  released in 2013 .
The  इलेक्ट्रॉन हस्तांतरण कड़ी in the सूत्रकणिका is the साईट of  oxidative phosphorylation in eukaryotes .
The NADH and succinate generated  in the साइट्रिक एसिड साईकिल हैं  oxidized , providing energy to power ATP synthase .
Photosynthetic electron  हस्तांतरण कड़ी of the thylakoid  membrane .
An electron transport  कड़ी ( इत्यादि ) युगल इलेक्ट्रॉन ट्रांसफ़र between an इलेक्ट्रॉन दाता  ( such as NADH ) and an electron acceptor ( such as O2 ) with the transfer of H+ ions ( protons ) across a membrane .
The resulting electrochemical  प्रोटॉन अनुपात is प्रयुक्त to generate रासायनिक  energy in the form of adenosine triphosphate ( ATP ) .
Electron transport chains are the cellular mechanisms used for  extracting उर्जा इससे  sunlight in photosynthesis and also from redox reactions , such as the oxidation of sugars ( respiration ) .
In chloroplasts , light  ड्राइव the परिवर्तन of जल to ऑक्सीजन और nadP+ to  NADPH with transfer of H+ ions across chloroplast membranes .
In mitochondria , it is the conversion of oxygen to water  , nadh to naD+ और succinate to fumarate कि हैं जरूरी  to generate the proton gradient .
Electron transport chains are major sites of premature electron leakage to oxygen ,  generating superoxide और potentially resulting in increased oxidative तनाव  .
Tramadol hydrochloride ( trademarked as Conzip , Ryzolt , Ultracet , Ultram in the USA , Ralivia , Zytram XL Durella { CR-100/200 mg } in Canada or Adolonta in Spain ) is a centrally acting synthetic analgesic used to  दावत मॉडरेट to मध्यम  severe pain .
The drug has a wide range of applications , including treatment of rheumatoid arthritis , restless legs syndrome  , मोटर neurone  disease and fibromyalgia .
It  थी शुभारम्भ और marketed as tramal by  the German pharmaceutical company Grünenthal GmbH in 1977 .
Tramadol is a weak μ-opioid  receptor agonist कि भी induces serotonin रिलीज और inhibits  the reuptake of norepinephrine .
Tramadol  is metabolized to o-desmethyltramadol  , a significantly more potent μ-opioid agonist .
Tramadol and its major metabolite ( s ) are  विशिष्ट इससे अन्य अधिक potent opioid  agonists by relative selectivity for μ-opioid receptors .
बर्नार्ड लॉरेंस `` बर्नी '' madoff ( ;  born April 29 , 1938 ) is an American former stockbroker , investment advisor , financier , and white collar criminal .
He is the former non-executive Chairman of the NASDAQ stock market , and the admitted  ऑपरेटर of a पेन्शन योजना कि is माना to  be the largest financial fraud in U.S. history .
Madoff founded the Wall Street firm Bernard L. Madoff  निवेश प्रतिभूति llc in  1960 , and was its chairman until his arrest on December 11 , 2008 .
The firm was one of the top market maker businesses on Wall Street ,  जिससे bypassed `` विशेषज्ञ '' firms by सीधे निष्पादित  orders over the counter from retail brokers .
He employed at the firm his brother Peter as Senior Managing Director and Chief  अनुपालन अधिकारी ; पीटर रै चूंकि  been sentenced to 10 years in prison .
Peter 's daughter Shana  madoff as the कड़ 's नियम और अनुपालन अधिकारी और attorney , और उसके बेटे एंड्रयू और चिह्नित  ( Mark committed suicide by hanging exactly two years after his father 's arrest ) .
On December 10 , 2008 , Madoff 's  बेटे बताई अधिकारियों कि उनके पिता था confessed to उन्हें  that the asset management unit of his firm was a massive Ponzi scheme , and quoted him as describing it as `` one big lie . ''
The following day , FBI  एजेंटों गिरफ्तार madoff और चार्ज उसे  with one count of securities fraud .
The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) had previously conducted  investigations into madoff 's कारोबार practices , लकिन किया नहीं ख़ोज  the massive fraud .
In March 2009 , Madoff pleaded guilty to 11 federal felonies and admitted to turning his wealth management business into  a विशाल पेन्शन योजना कि झांसे हज़ारों of निवेशकों of अरबों of डॉलर  .
Madoff said he began the Ponzi scheme in  the जल्दी 1990s  .
However , federal investigators believe the fraud began as early as the 1970s , and those charged with recovering the  लापता धन मानना the निवेश आपरेशन may never have महरूम legitimate  .
The amount missing from client  खाते , सहित  fabricated gains , was almost $ 65 billion .
The court-appointed trustee estimated actual losses  to निवेशकों of $ 18  billion .
On June 29 , 2009 , he was sentenced to 150 years in  थाना , the अधिकतम अनुमत  .
Administrative Professionals Day ( also known as Secretaries Day or Admin Day ) is an unofficial secular holiday observed in  अनेक देशों to recognize the कार्य of secretaries  , administrative assistants , receptionists , and other administrative support professionals .
In  उत्तर अमेरिका , it is मनाये on  the Wednesday of the last full week of April ( April 24 in 2013 ) .
in फ़्रांस it is मनाये  on the third Thursday in April ( April 18 in 2013 ) .
In Australia it is celebrated on  the पहला शुक्रवार  in May
A quasi-judicial body is an entity such as an arbitrator or tribunal  फलक , generally of a पब्लिक प्रशासनिक एजेंसी , जिससे रै  powers and procedures resembling those of a court of law or judge , and which is obligated to objectively determine facts and draw conclusions from them so as to provide the basis of an official action .
Such actions are able to remedy a situation or impose legal penalties , and may affect the  विधिक अधिकारों , कर्तव्य or privileges of विशिष्ट पार्टियों  .
Monument of Tycho Brahe and  योहानेस कॅप्लर in प्राग
Tycho Brahe ( 14 December 154624  अक्तूबर 1601 ) , born tyge ottesen ब्राहे , थी a डैनिश nobleman ज्ञात लिये उसके सटीक  and comprehensive astronomical and planetary observations .
He was born in Scania , then part of  डेनमार्क , अभी भाग of modern-day स्वीडन  .
Tycho was well  ज्ञात in उसके आजीवन as an astronomer  and alchemist .
In his De nova stella ( On the  नई स्टार ) of 1573 , he refuted the aristotelian विश्वास in  an unchanging celestial realm .
His precise measurements indicated that `` new stars , '' ( stellae novae , now known as supernovae ) in particular that of 1572 , lacked the parallax expected in  sub-lunar phenomena , और यहूद इसलिए नहीं `` वायुमंडलीय '' tailless धूमकेतुओं as previously believed , लकिन यहूद ऊपर  the atmosphere and moon .
Using similar measurements he showed that comets were also not  वायुमंडलीय phenomena , as previously विचार , और जरूर pass through the माना `` अपरिवर्तनीय  '' celestial spheres .
As an astronomer , Tycho worked to combine what he saw as  the geometrical लाभ of the copernican प्रणाली साथ the philosophical लाभ of the ptolemaic प्रणाली into  his own model of the universe , the Tychonic system .
furthermore , he थी the पिछला of the प्रमुख नग्न  eye astronomers , working without telescopes for his observations .
Tycho Brahe was granted an estate on the island of Hven and the funding to build the Uraniborg , an early research institute ,  जहाँ he निर्मित विशाल खगोलीय यंत्र और took अनेक  careful measurements , and later Stjerneborg , underground , when he discovered that his instruments in the former were not sufficiently steady .
On the island ( on which he demonstrated autocratic character and behavior toward the residents ) he founded  manufactories ऐसे as paper-making to provide सामग्री  for printing his results .
After  मतभिन्नता साथ the नई डैनिश किंग ईसाई iv in  1597 , he was invited by the Bohemian king and Holy Roman emperor Rudolph II to Prague , where he became the official imperial astronomer .
He built the new observatory  at benátky nad jizerou  .
Here , from 1600 until his death in  1601 , he थी assisted by योहानेस कॅप्लर जो बाद प्रयुक्त tycho  's astronomical data to develop Kepler 's laws of planetary motion .
Guro District ( Guro-gu ) is a district of  सियोल , दक्षिण कोरियाई , जिससे थी अलग  from Yeongdeungpo District on April 1 , 1980 .
Located in the southwestern part of the city , where besides Yangcheon District and Geumcheon District Guro District has an important  स्थिति as a हस्तांतरण कड़ी जिससे contains  railroads , land routes from the rest of Seoul to the south of the country .
The Gyeongbu and Gyeongin  रेल लाइनों कनेक्ट सियोल to  Busan and Incheon .
In addition ,  सियोल महानगर सबवे लाइनों 1  , 2 , and 7 , and major highways intersect in Guro District .
The name Guro originates  इससे the लेजेंड कि नौ ( ) बूढ़ा मेन (  Korean : ro ) enjoyed longevity in the district .
A  डिजिटल औद्योगिक जटिल is स्तिथ  in Guro District .
The Guro Digital Industrial Complex , which played a leading industrial role mainly with textile  निर्माण , dressmaking और अन्य  labour-intensive industries in 1967 , has been rapidly changed into an IT industrial complex .
This complex played a pivotal role in the  आर्थिक विकास of the दक्षिण कोरियाई 's विकास era , referred to as the `` चमत्कार  on the Han River `` , and also contributed 10 percent of national export in the 1970s .
Twenty-one percent of the total area of  guro ज़िला is a प्रतिबंधित मण्डल to be  used as a greenbelt with the only arboretum in Seoul .
The zone is changing into a lively district as large  labour-intensive कारखानों हैं चलती इससे the क्षेत्रफल और the परिषद  is developing what it terms its four zones .
An `` e-government `` system based on this hosted the international  e-participation फ़ोरम on फ़रवरी 7–9 , 2007  , with the participation of more than thirty-seven countries .
The forum was launched  साथ the थीम `` promoting लोकतंत्र और क्षेत्रीय विकास '' और twenty-five mayors सहित आंद्रे santini ( issy-les-moulineaux  , France ) , Kevin Foy ( Chapel Hill , US ) , Apirak Kosayothin ( Bangkok , Thailand ) , Uvais Mohamed Emthiyas ( Colombo , Sri Lanka ) , and world experts such as Dr William H. Dutton ( Director of Oxford Internet Institute at the University of Oxford , UK ) and Dr Ari-Veiko Anttiroiko ( professor at the University of Tampere , Finland ) participated in the forum .
The Guro Declaration , adopted during the forum , aims to set up a portal site for e-government development and to establish a concrete project in order  to सेतु the डिजिटल divide among  the world 's cities .
This practice has been recognised for  providing a नई महत्वपूर्ण कदम in the विकास  of e-democracy .
The e-participation forum was a key factor  लिये guro to खेल the अग्रणी भूमिका in bridging the डिजिटल divide among शहरों , to provide i.t . उद्यमों स्तिथ in guro  Digital Industrial Complex the opportunity to launch into the international market , to improve its image and become a global leader to concrete e-democracy .
The international  e-participation फ़ोरम on फ़रवरी  7–9 , 2007
A wonton ( also spelled wantan ,  wanton , or wuntun in ट्रांसक्रिप्शन इससे  Cantonese ; Mandarin : húndùn ) is a type of dumpling commonly found in a number of Chinese cuisines .
Many people were  शामिल in the आविष्कार of  radio as we now know it .
Several possible methods of wireless communication were considered , including inductive and  capacitive प्रेरण और हस्तांतरण through the मैदान , however the विधि प्रयुक्त लिये रेडियो  today exclusively involves the transmission and reception of electromagnetic waves .
After early speculation on the subject , experimental work on the connection between electricity and magnetism began around 1820 with the work of Hans  ईसाई ओर्स्टेड और जारी साथ the कार्य of andré-marie  Ampère , Joseph Henry , and Michael Faraday .
ये investigations culminated  in the complete theory of electromagnetism developed by James Clerk Maxwell .
This theory described the theoretical basis of the propagation of  इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक  waves .
After Maxwell 's theory was published many people experimented  साथ बेतार संचार , कुछ intentionally  using Maxwell 's theory some not .
It is considered likely that the first  जानबूझकर हस्तांतरण of a सिग्नल by अर्थात् of इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक लहरें थी performed  by David Edward Hughes around 1880 , although this was considered to be induction at the time .
The first systematic and unequivocal transmission of EM waves was performed by  heinrich रुडॉल्फ हर्ट्ज़ और वर्णित in papers प्रकाशित in 1887 और 1890  .
Hertz famously  माना ये परिणाम as होने  of little practical value .
After Hertz 's work many  लोगों यहूद शामिल in the  development of components and theory involved with the transmission and reception of electromagnetic waves .
Others , notably Guglielmo Marconi , were concerned with  व्यावहारिक सुधार और the वाणिज्यिक अनुप्रयोग of  radio to wireless telegraphy .
बाद on रेगिनाल्ड A. fessenden became  the first to send an audio signal by means of electromagnetic waves .
Scurvy is a disease resulting from  a कमियां of विटामिन c , जिससे is जरूरी लिये the  synthesis of collagen in humans .
The chemical name for vitamin C , ascorbic acid , is derived from the Latin name of scurvy  , scorbutus , जिससे भी provides the क्रियाशील scorbutic ( `` of ,  characterized by or having to do with scurvy '' ) .
Scurvy often presents  itself initially as लक्षण of malaise और lethargy  , followed by formation of spots on the skin , spongy gums , and bleeding from the mucous membranes .
Spots are most  abundant on the जांघों और टाँगे , और a व्यक्ति साथ the ailment  looks pale , feels depressed , and is partially immobilized .
As scurvy  अग्रिम , वहीँ can be खोलें , suppurating wounds  , loss of teeth , jaundice , fever , neuropathy and death .
Scurvy was at one time common among sailors , pirates and others aboard ships at sea longer than perishable fruits and vegetables could be stored ( subsisting instead only on cured and salted meats and  सूखी दाने ) और by सैनिको similarly वंचित of ये भोजन लिये विस्तारित अवधि  .
It was described by Hippocrates ( c. 460 BC–c . 380 BC ) , and herbal  cures लिये स्कर्वी have महरूम ज्ञात in अनेक  native cultures since prehistory .
Scurvy was one of the limiting factors of marine travel ,  प्रायः हत्या विशाल संख्याएँ of the यात्री और क्रू on  long-distance voyages .
This became a significant issue in Europe from  the शुरूआत of the आधुनिक era in the आयु of डिस्कवरी  in the 15th century , continuing to play a significant role through World War I in the 20th century .
While today scurvy is known to be caused by a nutritional deficiency , until the isolation of vitamin C and direct evidence of its link to scurvy in  1932 , numerous theories और उपचार यहूद प्रस्तावित , प्रायः  on little or no experimental data .
This  असंगति is attributed to the कमी of विटामिन c as a पृथक अवधारणा ,  an inability to reliably link different foods ( notably present in fresh citrus , watercress , and organ meat ) to scurvy .
An additional concept required to understand scurvy was the  degradation of विटामिन c by एक्सपोज़र to एयर और तांबे और अन्य परिवर्तन मेटल लवण ऐसे  as those of iron , thus changing the links of foods to scurvy over time .
Treatment by fresh food , particularly citrus fruit , was periodically  implemented , as it था महरूम चूंकि  antiquity .
however जबतक the 1930s , उपचार थी असंगत  , with many ineffective treatments used into the 20th century .
It was a Scottish surgeon in the  royal नेवी , जेम्स lind जो पहला proved it could be treated साथ citrus फल  in experiments he described in his 1753 book , A Treatise of the Scurvy , though his advice was not implemented by the Royal Navy for several decades .
In infants , scurvy is  sometimes referred to as barlow 's बीमारी , नामित  after Sir Thomas Barlow , a British physician who described it .
However  , barlow 's बीमारी  may also refer to mitral valve prolapse .
Other eponyms for scurvy include  moeller 's बीमारी और cheadle  's disease .
Scurvy does not  occur in सबसे पशु क्युकी  they can synthesize their own vitamin C .
However , humans and other higher  primates ( the simians - बंदरों और apes - और tarsiers ) , गिनी सूअर , सबसे or सब bats , और  some species of birds and fish lack an enzyme ( L-gulonolactone oxidase ) necessary for such synthesis and must obtain vitamin C through their diet .
Vitamin C is widespread in plant tissues  , साथ विशेषकर ऊँची एकाग्रता  occurring in citrus fruits ( oranges , lemons , limes , grapefruits ) , tomatoes , potatoes , cabbages , and green peppers .
Iron  is a रासायनिक तत्व  with the symbol Fe ( from ) and atomic number 26 .
It is a  मेटल in the पहला परिवर्तन  series .
It is the most common element ( by mass ) forming the  ग्रह धरती as a पूरे , forming much of धरती 's बाहरी  and inner core .
It is  the चौथी सबसे आम  element in the Earth 's crust .
Iron 's very common presence in rocky planets like Earth is due to its abundant production as a result of fusion in high-mass stars , where the production of nickel-56 ( which decays to the most  आम समस्थानिक of आयरन ) is the पिछला  nuclear fusion reaction that is exothermic .
इस कल्याणकारी रेडियोसक्रिय निकल  to become the last element to be produced before collapse of a supernova leads to the explosive events that scatter this precursor radionuclide of iron abundantly into space .
Like other group 8 elements , iron exists in a wide  दायरा of ऑक्सीकरण राज्य , −2 to +6 , हालांकि +2 और +3 हैं  the most common .
Elemental iron occurs in meteoroids and other low oxygen  environments , लकिन is प्रतिक्रिया to  oxygen and water .
Fresh iron surfaces appear  lustrous silvery-gray , लकिन oxidize in सामान्य एयर to दे hydrated आयरन  oxides , commonly known as rust .
Unlike many  अन्य धातुओं जिससे रूप passivating ऑक्साइड परतों , आयरन आक्साइड  occupy more volume than iron metal , and thus iron oxides flake off and expose fresh surfaces for corrosion .
Iron metal has been used since ancient times ,  हालांकि तांबे alloys , जिससे have निम्नतर melting  temperatures , were used first in history .
Pure iron is soft ( softer than aluminium ) ,  लकिन is unobtainable by smelting  .
The material is significantly  hardened और strengthened  by impurities from the smelting process , such as carbon .
A certain proportion of carbon (  between 0.002 % और 2.1 % ) produces स्टील ,  which may be up to 1000 times harder than pure iron .
Crude iron metal is  उत्पादित in धमाका furnaces , जहाँ अयस्क  is reduced by coke to pig iron , which has a high carbon content .
Further refinement with oxygen reduces the  कार्बन सामग्री to the सही proportion  to make steel .
Steels and low carbon  आयरन alloys साथ अन्य धातुओं ( मिश्रधातु steels ) हैं by दूर the सबसे आम  metals in industrial use , due to their great range of desirable properties and the abundance of iron .
Iron chemical compounds , which include ferrous  और ferric यौगिकों , have अनेक  uses .
Iron oxide mixed with aluminium  चूर्ण can be ignited to बनाएँ  a thermite reaction , used in welding and purifying ores .
It  फ़ॉर्म शब्दकोष यौगिकों साथ the  halogens and the chalcogens .
Among its organometallic compounds is ferrocene , the first sandwich  यौगिक खोजा  .
Iron plays an important role in  जीवविज्ञान , forming देवालय  with molecular oxygen in hemoglobin and myoglobin ; these two compounds are common oxygen transport proteins in vertebrates .
Iron is also the metal used at the active site of  अनेक महत्वपूर्ण रेडॉक्स एंजाइमों dealing साथ सेल्यूलर श्वसन और ऑक्सीकरण  and reduction in plants and animals .
The  ब्लू क्रॉस ब्लू शील्ड संघ ( bcbsa ) is  a federation of 38 separate health insurance organizations and companies in the United States .
Combined , they directly or indirectly provide health  बीमे to over 99 लाख अमेरिकी  .
The history of  ब्लू क्रॉस तिथियाँ वापस to 1929 , जबकि the  history of Blue Shield dates to 1939 .
The Blue Cross Association dates back  to 1960 , जबकि इसके ब्लू शील्ड बंटवारा  was created in 1948 .
The two  संगठन मिलाया in 1982 , forming  the current association .
A potato chip ( known as a chip in American , Australian , New Zealand , Canadian ,  singaporean , हांग काँग , दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी और jamaican अंग्रेज़ी ; as a कुरकुरे in अंग्रेजों अंग्रेज़ी और  Hiberno-English , and as either a chip or wafer in Indian English ) is a thin slice of potato that is deep fried or baked until crunchy .
Potato chips are  commonly परोसा as an  appetizer , side dish , or snack .
The basic chips are cooked and salted ; additional varieties are manufactured using various flavorings and  संघटक सहित seasonings , herbs , मसाले , cheeses , और कृत्रिम  additives .
`` Crisps '' , however , may also refer to  अनेक अलग प्रकार of savory स्नैक उत्पाद बेची in the संयुक्त किंगडम  and Ireland , some made from potato , but may also be made from maize , tapioca or other cereals .
An  उदाहरण of ये kinds of  savory snacks is Monster Munch .
Potato chips are a  predominant भाग of the स्नैक खाना मार्केट in  English-speaking countries and numerous other Western nations .
The global  आलू चिप मार्केट उत्पन्न  total revenues of US $ 16.4 billion in 2005 .
This accounted for 35.5 % of the total savory  स्नैक्स मार्केट in कि साल ( us $  46.1 billion ) .
Henry Clay , Sr. ( April 12 , 1777 – June 29 , 1852 ) was a lawyer ,  राजनेता और skilled orator जो represented केंटकी  in both the Senate and in the House of Representatives .
He served three different terms as Speaker of  the संयुक्त राज्य  House of Representatives and was also Secretary of State from 1825 to 1829 .
He lost his campaigns for  अध्यक्ष in 1824 , 1832  and 1844 .
Clay was a dominant figure in  दोनो the पहला और दूसरी  Party systems .
As a leading war hawk  in 1812 , he favored युद्ध साथ ब्रिटेन और  played a significant role in leading the nation to war in the War of 1812 .
In 1824 he ran for president  और खोया , लकिन फेंका उसके चुनावी मत to जॉन क्विंसी एडम्स ,  who made him secretary of state as the Jacksonians denounced what they considered a `` corrupt bargain . ''
He ran and lost again in 1832 and 1844  as the प्रत्याशी of the whig पार्टी , जिससे he संस्थापित  and usually dominated .
Clay was the foremost proponent of the American System , fighting  लिये an बढ़ाएँ in tariffs to फोस्टर उद्योग in the संयुक्त राज्य , the उपयोग of संघीय funding to निर्माण और maintain  infrastructure , and a strong national bank .
He opposed the annexation of Texas , fearing it would inject the  गुलामी समस्या into  politics .
Clay also  opposed the mexican-american युद्ध और the ``  Manifest Destiny `` policy of Democrats , which cost him votes in the close 1844 election .
Dubbed the `` Great Pacificator , ''  मिट्टी brokered महत्वपूर्ण compromises दौरान the nullification  Crisis and on the slavery issue .
As part of the `` Great Triumvirate `` or `` Immortal Trio , '' along with his colleagues Daniel Webster and John C. Calhoun , he was instrumental in  formulating the मिसौरी सुलह of 1820 और the सुलह of 1850  .
he थी viewed as the प्राथमिक प्रतिनिधि of पश्चिमी रूचि  in this group , and was given the names `` Henry of the West '' and `` The Western Star . ''
A plantation owner , Clay held slaves  दौरान उसके आजीवन लकिन  freed them in his Will .
Abraham Lincoln , the Whig leader in  इलिनोइस , थी a ग्रेट admirer  of Clay , saying he was `` my ideal of a great man . ''
Lincoln  wholeheartedly समर्थित मिट्टी  's economic programs .
In 1957 , a Senate Committee selected Clay as one of the five greatest U.S . Senators ,  साथ साथ डेनियल वेबस्टर , जॉन C. calhoun , रॉबर्ट la  Follette , and Robert Taft .
BJ 's Wholesale Club , Inc. ,  commonly referred to बस as bj 's , is a membership-only  warehouse club chain operating on the United States East Coast , as well as in the state of Ohio .
The company is ranked # 232 on Fortune magazine 's 2010  लिस्टिंग of अमेरिका 's 500 largest  public corporations .
the जादूगर of oz , ज्ञात दौरान उसके शासनकाल as the ग्रेट और शक्तिशाली  Oz , is the epithet of Oscar Zoroaster Phadrig Isaac Norman Henkel Emmannuel Ambroise Diggs , a fictional character in the Land of Oz , created by American author L. Frank Baum .
The character was further  popularized by the क्लासिक  1939 movie , wherein his full name is not mentioned .
Kristinia Jamie  debarge ( ; born कूच 8 , 1990 ) is  an American singer , songwriter , dancer and actress .
She first  appeared on नेशनल टेलीविज़न in 2003 as a प्रतियोगी on  the American Idol spin-off , American Juniors .
In 2009 , DeBarge signed a contract with the Island Records department  sodapop , releasing उसके डेब्यू एल्बम उजागर  in July of the same year .
The first single , `` Goodbye `` , reached  the शीर्ष 20 in the us और कनाडा  .
The lead single ( `` Cry Wolf '' ) from her untitled  sophomore एल्बम थी  released on September 27 , 2012 .
The Hawaii Warriors football team represents the University of Hawaiʻi at Mānoa in NCAA Division I FBS  कॉलेज फ़ुटबॉल  .
The team  is coached  by Norm Chow .
It was part of the Western Athletic  सम्मेलन जबतक  July 2012 , when the team joined the Mountain West Conference .
The Hawaii Warriors were the third non-AQ team to play in a BCS bowl game ; losing  to जॉर्जिया 41–10 in the शुगर कटोरी on जनवरी 1 , 2008 in नई ऑरलियन्स  , Louisiana .
Marvin Gaye ( April 2 , 1939April 1 , 1984 ) , born Marvin  pentz gay , jr. , थी an अमरीकी singer-songwriter  and musician .
Gaye helped to shape the sound of Motown Records in the 1960s with a string of hits including ``  कैसा मीठी it is ( to be loved by तुम ) `` और `` i सुना it through the grapevine `` और duet रिकार्डिंग साथ मरियम कुएं और tammi terrell , बाद  earning the titles `` Prince of Motown '' and `` Prince of Soul '' .
During the 1970s , Gaye recorded the concept albums What 's Going On and Let 's Get It On and became among the first artists in Motown  to ब्रेक दूर इससे the बागडोर of इसके उत्पादन  company .
Gaye 's  बाद रिकार्डिंग बहकावे अनेक  R & B subgenres such as quiet storm and neo-soul .
Following a period in Europe under a tax exile in the early 1980s , Gaye released the 1982 Grammy Award-winning hit ``  यौन healing `` और the मध्यरात्रि प्रेम एल्बम  .
Since his death in 1984 , Gaye has been posthumously honored by many institutions , including  the ग्रैमी आजीवन उपलब्धि पुरस्कार और the चट्टान और फेंकें  Hall of Fame .
स्थान of chernobyl  nuclear power plant
The abandoned city of Pripyat with  chernobyl संयंत्र  in the distance
abandoned आवास  blocks in Pripyat
The Chernobyl disaster ( , Chornobylska Katastrofa – Chornobyl Catastrophe ) was a catastrophic nuclear accident  कि occurred on 26 अप्रैल 1986 at the chernobyl नाभिकीय शक्ति संयंत्र in युक्त ( तब officially  the Ukrainian SSR ) , which was under the direct jurisdiction of the central authorities of the Soviet Union .
An explosion and  आग released विशाल quantities of रेडियोसक्रिय अणु  into the atmosphere , which spread over much of the western USSR and Europe .
The Chernobyl disaster is widely considered to have been the  worst नाभिकीय शक्ति संयंत्र दुर्घटना in इतिहास , और is एक of तभी दो वर्गीकृत as a स्तर  7 event on the International Nuclear Event Scale ( the other being the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster in 2011 ) .
The battle to contain the contamination and avert a greater catastrophe ultimately involved over 500,000  मजदूर और लागत an अनुमानित 18 अरब  rubles .
The official Soviet casualty count of 31 deaths has  महरूम विवादित , और long-term प्रभाव ऐसे as cancers  and deformities are still being accounted for .
Mrs. Claus says goodbye to her husband as he sets off on  उसके यात्रा in इस  1919 postcard
Mrs. Claus is the wife of Santa Claus , the  क्रिसमस gift-bringer in उत्तर अमरीकी  and European Christmas tradition .
She  is ज्ञात लिये बनाना कुकीज़ साथ the elves  and preparing toys with her husband Santa Claus .
Her first name is a mystery ,  हालांकि वो रै महरूम referred to as मरियम , जेसिका  , Layla , Annette , Heidi , or Martha .
HijackThis ( also HiJackThis or  hjt ) is an खोलें सोर्स enumerating औजार लिये microsoft खिड़कियाँ  originally created by Merijn Bellekom , and later sold to Trend Micro .
The program is notable for targeting browser-hijacking methods , rather  than relying on a डेटाबेस of  known spyware .
It scans a user 's computer quickly , and  प्रदर्शक ब्राउजर hijacking स्थितियाँ  , showing what entries are there .
HijackThis is used primarily for diagnosis of browser hijacking , as uninformed use of its  हटाना सुविधाएं can कारण significant तन्त्र क्षति to a कंप्यूटर  .
HijackThis does not remove or detect spyware ;  it सूचियाँ सबसे आम स्थितियाँ  where browser hijacking activity can occur .
Browser hijacking  can कारण मैलवेयर to  be installed on a computer .
On  फ़रवरी 16 , 2012 , ट्रेंड सूक्ष्म released the hijackthis सोर्स  code as open source and it is now available on the SourceForge site .
Saddle Creek  रिकॉर्ड is an अमरीकी रिकार्ड लेबल  based in Omaha , Nebraska .
प्रारंभ as a कॉलेज क्लास प्रोजेक्ट on उद्यमिता  , the label was founded by Mike Mogis and Justin Oberst in 1993 ( as Lumberjack Records ) .
Mogis soon  turned over उसके भूमिका  in the company to Robb Nansel .
The label is named after Saddle Creek Road , a street that cuts through the east side of midtown Omaha , and the beginnings of a scene whose members included Conor Oberst ( then a solo artist , currently of Bright Eyes , Conor Oberst and the Mystic  घाटी बैंड , desaparecidos और राक्षस of लोक ) , टिम kasher ( तब of slowdown वर्जिनिया , फिलहाल of कर्सिव  and The Good Life ) , and others .
Collectively , they were known  unofficially as the `` creekers  '' .
काठी क्रीक पहला appeared in छपाई on  a show flyer , offering to `` Spend an evening with Saddle Creek '' ( later to be the title of the label 's DVD . )
Saddle Creek became an  incorporated एंटिटी as a परिणाम of a क्लास  project on entrepreneurship .
वितरण is संभाला by the वैकल्पिक  Distribution Alliance , which is under the Warner Music Group umbrella .
Saddle Creek Records continues to be the flagship label of a style of music called `` The Omaha Sound ``  , characterized by a पतला  country twang .
This is  increasingly inaccurate , हालांकि , साथ the वृद्धि of अधिक इलेक्ट्रॉनिक  sounds such as those favored by The Faint and Broken Spindles .
The eclectic sounds of Saddle Creek 's  disparate सदस्य bands is somewhat समझाया by उनके  history ; a number of the original members of the label attended grade school together .
A `` sister label '' , of  sorts , to काठी क्रीक is टोली प्रेम  , started by Conor Oberst in 2004 .
The label opened arms to their first  bands नहीं आधारित in ओमाहा in 2001 साथ रिलीज by अभी it 's ओवरहेड और sorry  About Dresden .
Other non-Nebraskan artists followed , including Los Angeles 's Rilo Kiley , Eric Bachmann ( formerly leader of Archers of Loaf and Crooked Fingers from North  कैरोलिना ) , georgie जेम्स ( वॉशिंगटन d.C. ) , दो gallants ( सैन फ्रांसिस्को ) , और सबसे recently टोकियो  Police Club ( Toronto ) .
In 2005 , Spend an  संध्या साथ काठी क्रीक  , a documentary detailing the first ten years of the record label 's history , was released .
The DVD features extensive  साक्षात्कार साथ the काठी क्रीक bands  , archival footage , and rare live performances .
On June 8 ,  2007 , the लेबल खोली उनके अपना म्यूज़िक  venue named Slowdown ( after the group Slowdown Virginia ) , located in downtown Omaha , Nebraska .
The following is a list of episodes for the  टेलीविज़न दिखाएँ  Full House .
In total , there  यहूद 192 एपीसोड फिल्माया लिये the  show over the course of its eight seasons , from 1987 to 1995 .
Full House is a situation comedy which  क्रॉनिकल्स a विधवा पिता 's struggles of उठाने  his three young daughters and the lives that they have touched .
The patriarch of the family , Danny ( Bob Saget ) , invites his brother-in-law Jesse ( John Stamos ) and his best friend Joey ( Dave Coulier ) , to help raise  उसके children ( candace cameron , jodie sweetin , और मरियम kate/ashley olsen ) , बाद उसके बीवी थी मारे  during an automobile accident involving a drunk driver .
After episodes 88 and 89 , Jesse marries  बेकी ( लोरी loughlin ) , और वे  move into the attic .
Then , after episodes 104 and 105 , Becky and Jesse have twin  लड़कों नामित nicky और एलेक्स ( डेनियल और केविन renteria/blake  and Dylan Tuomy-Wilhoit ) .
The  श्रेणी ends साथ एपीसोड 192 , `` मिशेल यात्राएँ again  Part 2 '' , when Michelle loses her memory and the family tries to restore it .
Notice of Stamp  अधिनियम of 1765  in Newspaper
American newspapers reacted to the Stamp Act  साथ गुस्सा और पूर्वानुमान  of the demise of journalism .
The Stamp Act 1765 ( short title Duties in American Colonies Act 1765  ; 5 जार्ज iii , c. 12 ) imposed a सीधा कर by the अंग्रेजों पार्लियामेंट specifically on the colonies of अंग्रेजों अमेरिका , और it जरूरी कि अनेक मुद्रित सामग्री in the  colonies be produced on stamped paper produced in London , carrying an embossed revenue stamp .
ये मुद्रित सामग्री यहूद विधिक दस्तावेज़ , मैगज़ीन , अखबारों और अनेक  other types of paper used throughout the colonies .
Like previous taxes , the stamp tax had to be  सशुल्क in मान्य अंग्रेजों करेंसी , नहीं in औपनिवेशिक पेपर  money .
The purpose of the tax was to help pay for troops  stationed in उत्तर  America after the British victory in the Seven Years ' War .
The British  सरकारी लगा कि the colonies यहूद the प्राथमिक  beneficiaries of this military presence , and should pay at least a portion of the expense .
The Stamp Act  मिले ग्रेट प्रतिरोध  in the colonies .
The colonies sent no representatives to Parliament , and therefore had no influence over  कया कर यहूद उठाया  , how they were levied , or how they would be spent .
Many  colonists माना it a उल्लंघन of उनके अधिकारों as अंग्रेजो to be taxed  without their consent —consent that only the colonial legislatures could grant .
Colonial assemblies sent  याचिकाएं और विरोध  .
The Stamp Act Congress held in New York City ,  reflecting the पहला significant संयुक्त औपनिवेशिक जवाब to कोई अंग्रेजों माप ,  also petitioned Parliament and the King .
Local protest groups , led by colonial merchants and landowners , established connections through correspondence that created  a ढीला गठबन्धन कि विस्तारित इससे  New England to Georgia .
Protests and demonstrations initiated by the Sons of Liberty often turned  हिंसक और destructive as the  masses became involved .
Very soon all stamp tax distributors were intimidated into  resigning उनके आयोग  , and the tax was never effectively collected .
Opposition to the Stamp  अधिनियम थी नहीं सीमित to the  colonies .
British merchants and manufacturers , whose exports to the colonies were threatened by colonial economic problems  exacerbated by the कर  , also pressured Parliament .
The Act was repealed on  कूच 18 , 1766 as a पदार्थ of expedience , लकिन पार्लियामेंट affirmed इसके शक्ति to legislate लिये the colonies  “in all cases whatsoever” by also passing the Declaratory Act .
There  followed a श्रेणी of नई कर और regulations , likewise  opposed by the colonists .
The episode played a major role in defining the  grievances और enabling the व्यवस्थित औपनिवेशिक  resistance that led to the American Revolution in 1775 .
pt-105 underway  .
PT boats were a variety of torpedo-armed fast  आक्रमण शिल्प प्रयुक्त by the संयुक्त राज्य नेवी in संसार युद्ध ii to आक्रमण  larger surface ships .
`` PT '' is  the  US hull classification symbol for `` Patrol Torpedo '' .
The PT boat  squadrons यहूद nicknamed ``  the mosquito fleet '' .
the जापानी पुकारा  them `` Devil Boats '' .
The original pre– World War I torpedo  नौकाएँ यहूद designed साथ `` विस्थापन  '' hulls .
They  विस्थापित up to  300 tons and the top speed was .
The PT  नौकाएँ प्रयुक्त in संसार युद्ध ii यहूद निर्मित  using the planing -type hull form developed for racing boats .
They were much smaller ( 30–75 tons  ) और तेज़ ( 35–40  knots ) .
दोनो प्रकार यहूद designed to स्ट्राइक at larger warships साथ torpedoes  , using relatively high speed to get close , and small size to avoid being spotted and hit by gunfire .
They were  much कम महंगी than  large warships .
PT boats were  much तेज़ , छोटी , और सस्ता than conventional ( विस्थापन  hull ) vessels .
दौरान संसार युद्ध ii , अमरीकी pt नौकाएँ सगाई दुश्मन destroyers और  numerous other surface craft , ranging from small boats to large supply ships .
PT boats also operated as gunboats against enemy small craft , such as armored barges used by the Japanese forces  लिये inter-island हस्तांतरण .
Good Friday is a religious holiday observed primarily by  ईसाइयों commemorating the crucifixion of यीशु  Christ and his death at Calvary .
The holiday is observed during  पावन सप्ताह as भाग of the paschal  Triduum on the Friday preceding Easter Sunday , and may coincide with the Jewish observance of Passover .
It is also known as Holy Friday , Great Friday , Black Friday , or Easter Friday ,  हालांकि the latter properly refers to the शुक्रवार  in Easter week .
Based on the details of the  canonical gospels , the crucifixion of यीशु थी सबसे  likely to have been on a Friday ( the day before the Sabbath ) ( ) .
The estimated year of the Crucifixion is AD 33 , by two different groups , and originally as AD 34 by Isaac Newton via the differences between the Biblical and Julian  पंचांग और the crescent of the चंद्रमा  .
A third  विधि , using a completely अलग खगोलीय दृष्टिकोण  based on a lunar Crucifixion darkness and eclipse model ( consistent with Apostle Peter 's reference to a `` moon of blood '' in Acts 2:20 ) , points to Friday , 3 April AD 33 .
The Great Basin is the  largest क्षेत्रफल of endorheic watersheds in  North America .
It is noted for both its arid conditions and its Basin and range topography that varies from the North American low point at Badwater Basin to the highest point of the contiguous United States  , कम than दूर at the समिट of माउंट व्हिटनी  .
The region spans  अनेक physiographic विभाजन ,  biomes / ecoregions , and deserts .
Raster  may refer to:
Raster graphics ,  आलेखीय तकनीकों using arrays  of pixel values
Raster graphics editor , a  कंप्यूटर कार्यक्रम
Raster scan , the pattern of image readout , transmission ,  भंडार , और पुनर्निर्माण in टेलीविज़न  and computer images
Rasterisation , or rasterization ,  परिवर्तन of a वेक्टर चित्र to  a raster image
Raster image  प्रोसेसर , or rip , a घटक  of a printing system that performs rasterisation
Raster interrupt  , a कंप्यूटर  interrupt signal
रास्टर to वेक्टर  , an image conversion process
रास्टर बार , an प्रभाव प्रयुक्त  in computer demos
Raster-Noton , a  रिकार्ड लेबल
Rastrum , a device used  in मध्यकालीन म्यूज़िक पांडुलिपियों  to draw staff lines
Raster  दस्तावेज़ ऑब्जेक्ट  , a file format
Beowulf ( ; Old English : ) is a legendary Geatish hero and later turned  किंग in the एपिक कविता नामित बाद उसे , एक of the oldest surviving  pieces of literature in the English language .
The attack on  पर्ल हार्बर ( पुकारा हवाई आपरेशन or आपरेशन ai by the जापानी इम्पीरियल सामान्य मुख्यालय ( आपरेशन z in नियोजन ) और  the Battle of Pearl Harbor ) was a surprise military strike conducted by the Imperial Japanese Navy against the United States naval base at Pearl Harbor , Hawaii , on the morning of December 7 , 1941 ( December 8 in Japan ) .
From the  standpoint of the defenders ,  the attack commenced at 7:48 a.m. Hawaiian Time .
The attack was intended as a preventive action in order to keep the U.S. Pacific Fleet from interfering with military actions the Empire of Japan  थी नियोजन in southeast एशिया विरूद्ध विदेशी territories of the संयुक्त किंगडम  , the Netherlands , and the United States .
The base was attacked by 353 Japanese  सेनानी , बमवर्षक और  torpedo planes in two waves , launched from six aircraft carriers .
All eight U.S. Navy battleships were  क्षतिग्रस्त , साथ चार  being sunk .
Two of  ये यहूद बाद उठाया , और साथ the  remaining four repaired , six battleships returned to service later in the war .
The Japanese also sank or damaged three cruisers , three destroyers , an  anti-aircraft प्रशिक्षण जलयान , और एक minelayer  .
188  u.S. वायुयान  were destroyed ; 2,402 Americans were killed and 1,282 wounded .
Important base installations such as the power station , shipyard , maintenance , and fuel and torpedo storage  सुविधाएं , as खूब as the पनडुब्बी पियर और मुख्यालय भवन ( भी घर of the प्रज्ञा खण्ड ) यहूद नहीं  attacked .
Japanese losses were light : 29  वायुयान और पाँच midget submarines खोया , और  65 servicemen killed or wounded .
One Japanese sailor was  captured  .
the आक्रमण आए as a profound शॉक to the अमरीकी लोगों  and led directly to the American entry into World War II in both the Pacific and European theaters .
The following day (  दिसम्बर 8 ) , the संयुक्त राज्य  declared war on Japan .
Domestic support for  non-interventionism , जिससे था महरूम दमदार  , disappeared .
Clandestine support of Britain (  लिये उदाहरण the neutrality पैट्रोल  ) was replaced by active alliance .
Subsequent operations by the U.S. prompted Germany and  इटली to घोषित युद्ध on the u.S. on दिसम्बर 11 , जिससे थी reciprocated  by the U.S. the same day .
वहीँ यहूद numerous ऐतिहासिक precedents  for unannounced military action by Japan .
However , the lack of any formal warning , particularly while negotiations were  स्टिल जाहिर जारी , led अध्यक्ष फ्रैंकलिन D. रूज़वेल्ट to proclaim  December 7 , 1941 , `` a date which will live in infamy `` .
U.S. Route 85 ( US 85 ) is a  north–south संयुक्त राज्य राजमार्ग कि रनों लिये in  the Mountain - Northern Plains states of the United States .
The southern terminus of the route is at the United  states-mexico किनारा in el पासो , टेक्सास , connecting  with Mexican Federal Highway 45 .
The northern  टर्मिनस is at the संयुक्त states-canada किनारा  in Fortuna , North Dakota , where the route continues north as Saskatchewan Highway 35 .
In both the United States and Saskatchewan ,  कनाडा the रूट is ज्ञात as the canam  Highway .
Sections of US 85 are  माना भाग of the थियोडोर रूज़वेल्ट  Expressway .
The  संयुक्त राज्य अध्यक्षीय चुनाव of 1968 थी the 46th  quadrennial presidential election , held on Tuesday , November 5 , 1968 .
The Republican nominee , former  vice-president रिचर्ड निक्सन , जीती  the election over the Democratic nominee , incumbent Vice-President Hubert Humphrey .
Nixon ran on a  अभियान कि promised to restore विधि  and order to the nation 's cities , torn by riots and crime .
Analysts have argued the election of 1968 is a realigning  चुनाव as it permanently disrupted the नई सौदे गठबन्धन  that had dominated presidential politics for 36 years .
Coming four years after Democrat Lyndon B. Johnson won in a historic landslide , the  चुनाव देखी the लाज़िम अध्यक्ष  forced out of the race and a Republican elected for the first time in twelve years .
It was a  विदारक नेशनल अनुभव , conducted दौरान a साल of हिंसा कि शामिल the हत्या of सिविल अधिकारों नेता मार्टिन लूथर किंग , jr. , और  subsequent race riots across the nation , the assasination of Democratic presidential candidate Robert F. Kennedy , widespread opposition to the Vietnam War across university campuses , and violent confrontations between police and anti-war protesters at the 1968 Democratic National Convention as the Democratic party split again and again .
The election featured  the strongest तीसरा पार्टी प्रयत्न चूंकि 1912 by पूर्व  Alabama Governor George Wallace , a Democrat .
Because Wallace 's campaign  opposed संघीय हस्तक्षेप in the दक्षिण to समाप्त स्कूल पृथक्करण  , he carried the Deep South and ran well in ethnic industrial districts in the North .
This was  the पिछला चुनाव in जिससे नई यॉर्क था the सबसे मत  in the electoral college ( 43 votes ) .
After the 1970 census , California gained  the सबसे चुनावी मत और रै remained the  most populous state since then .
This is the latest election where a presidential ticket won  बगैर carrying the वाइस अध्यक्षीय प्रत्याशी 's घर  state .
खिड़कियाँ कार्य मैनेजर is a कार्य मैनेजर or प्रणाली मॉनिटर अनुप्रयोग शामिल साथ the microsoft खिड़कियाँ nt परिवार of ऑपरेटिंग प्रणालियों कि provides सीमित सूचना परिचय कंप्यूटर प्रदर्शन और कार्यशील अनुप्रयोग , प्रक्रियाओं और cpu उपयोग ,  commit charge and memory information , network activity and statistics , logged-in users , and system services ( and as often is the case with software tools provided by Microsoft for Windows , 3rd party software is available which fills the requirements more thoroughly , e.g , `` Process Explorer '' , `` Extended Task Manager '' , `` Anvir Task Manager '' , `` Process Hacker '' , and `` System Explorer '' ) .
The Task Manager can also be used to set process priorities , processor affinity , forcibly terminate processes , and shut down , restart ,  hibernate or log बंद इससे  Windows .
Windows Task  मैनेजर थी introduced साथ  Windows NT 4.0 .
Previous versions of Windows NT included the  कार्य सूची अनुप्रयोग , जिससे था दूर कम  features .
The task list was  सक्षम of लिस्टिंग फिलहाल कार्यशील प्रक्रियाओं  and killing them , or creating a new process .
In Windows XP only , a Shutdown menu is also present that allows  अभिगम to standby , hibernate , फेरे  off , Restart , Log Off and Switch User .
Earlier versions of Microsoft Windows ( Microsoft Windows 3.x , Windows 95 , Windows 98 ) had a program  ज्ञात as कार्य to प्रदर्शक the कार्यक्रम फिलहाल  running .
इस संचिका थी चलाया by  running the taskman.exe file from the C : \Windows directory .
Kanji ( ; ) are the adopted logographic Chinese characters ( hanzi ) that are used in the modern Japanese writing system along with hiragana ( ひらがな , ) , katakana ( カタカナ  , ) , hindu-arabic numerals , और the occasional उपयोग of the लैटिन वर्णमाला  .
The Japanese term kanji ( ) for the Chinese  वर्ण वस्तुतः अर्थात् `` हान वर्ण '' और is  written using the same characters as the Chinese hanzi ( ) .
John R  विलियम्स ( may 4 , 1782 – अक्तूबर 20 , 1854 ) थी an अमरीकी सिपाही , व्यापारी  , and politician who is most well known for serving as the first mayor of Detroit , Michigan .
In total , he served as Detroit  's महापौर लिये पाँच अन्य शर्तें  .
He also  थी a ब्रिगेडियर सामान्य in the संयुक्त राज्य  Army during the Black Hawk War .
a सरल शुष्क चुम्बकीय  portable compass .
A smartphone that  can be प्रयुक्त as a कम्पास क्युकी  of the magnetometer inside .
An  iphone कि can be प्रयुक्त as a  geological compass because of the 3-axis teslameter and 3-axis accelerometer inside it
A military compass  कि थी प्रयुक्त दौरान संसार  War I .
A compass is a navigational instrument that shows directions in a  फ़्रेम of सन्दर्भ कि is stationary सापेक्ष  to the surface of the earth .
The frame of  सन्दर्भ defines the चार कार्डिनल दिशानिर्देश ( or अंक )  – north , south , east , and west .
इंटरमीडिएट दिशानिर्देश  are also defined .
Usually , a diagram called a compass rose , which shows  the दिशानिर्देश ( साथ उनके names प्रायः abbreviated to आद्याक्षर ) , is चिह्नित  on the compass .
When the compass is in use ,  the रोज़ is लकीर साथ the रियल दिशानिर्देश in the फ़्रेम of सन्दर्भ ,  so , for example , the `` N '' mark on the rose really points to the north .
Frequently , in addition to the rose or sometimes instead of it ,  कोण markings in डिग्री हैं दिखाया on the कम्पास  .
North  corresponds to शून्य डिग्री , और the कोण बढ़ाएँ  clockwise , so east is 90 degrees , south is 180 , and west is 270 .
These numbers allow the compass to  दिखाएँ azimuths or बियरिंग , जिससे हैं commonly  stated in this notation .
the चुम्बकीय कम्पास थी पहला invented as a यंत्र लिये  divination as early as the Chinese Han Dynasty ( Since about 206 BC ) .
The compass was used in Song Dynasty China by the military for  navigational orienteering by 1040-1044 , और थी प्रयुक्त  for maritime navigation by 1111 to 1117 .
The  उपयोग of a कम्पास is अंकित  in Western Europe between 1187 and 1202 , and in Persia in 1232 .
The dry compass was invented  in यूरोपीय around  1300 .
This was supplanted in the early 20th century by  the liquid-filled चुम्बकीय  compass .
The Inca Empire or Inka Empire  ( quechua : tawantinsuyu  ) was the largest empire in pre-Columbian America .
The administrative , political and  सैन्य बीच of the साम्राज्य थी स्तिथ in कुज़्को  in modern-day Peru .
The Inca civilization arose from the highlands of Peru sometime  in the जल्दी 13th सदी  .
From 1438 to 1533 , the Incas used a variety of methods , from conquest to peaceful assimilation , to incorporate a large portion of western South America , centered on the Andean mountain ranges , including , besides Peru , large parts of  आधुनिक इक्वाडोर , पश्चिमी और दक्षिण सेंट्रल बोलीविया , उत्तरपश्चिम अर्जेंटीना , उत्तर और सेंट्रल चिली , और दक्षिणी कोलंबिया into a राज्य comparable to the ऐतिहासिक empires  of Eurasia .
The official language of the empire was  quechua , हालांकि सैंकड़ों  of local languages and dialects of Quechua were spoken .
The  इन्का referred to उनके साम्राज्य as tawantinsuyu  which can be translated as The Four Regions or The Four United Provinces .
There were  अनेक लोकल फ़ॉर्म of इबादत , सबसे of उन्हें concerning लोकल पवित्र `` huacas `` , लकिन the  Inca leadership encouraged the worship of Inti —the sun god—and imposed its sovereignty above other cults such as that of Pachamama .
The Incas considered their King , the Sapa Inca , to  be the `` चाइल्ड of the सूर्य .  ''
The kidneys are organs that  serve अनेक अनिवार्य नियामक भूमिकाएँ  in most animals , including vertebrates and some invertebrates .
वे हैं अनिवार्य in the urinary प्रणाली और भी serve  homeostatic functions such as the regulation of electrolytes , maintenance of acid–base balance , and regulation of blood pressure ( via maintaining salt and water balance ) .
They serve the  देह as a प्राकृतिक फिल्टर of the रक्त ,  and remove wastes which are diverted to the urinary bladder .
In producing urine  , the गुर्दे excrete wastes ऐसे  as urea and ammonium , and they are also responsible for the reabsorption of water , glucose , and amino acids .
The kidneys  भी उपज हार्मोन सहित calcitriol  , erythropoietin , and the enzyme renin .
Located at the rear of the  abdominal गुहा in the retroperitoneum , the गुर्दे प्राप्त रक्त  from the paired renal arteries , and drain into the paired renal veins .
Each kidney excretes urine into a ureter , itself a paired  ढांचा कि empties into the urinary ब्लैडर  .
Renal physiology is the study of kidney  फलन , जबकि nephrology  is the medical specialty concerned with kidney diseases .
Diseases of the kidney are diverse , but individuals with kidney  बीमारी अक्सर प्रदर्शक characteristic नैदानिक  features .
आम नैदानिक शर्तें involving the गुर्दा शामिल the  nephritic and nephrotic syndromes , renal cysts , acute kidney injury , chronic kidney disease , urinary tract infection , nephrolithiasis , and urinary tract obstruction .
Various cancers of the kidney exist ; the  सबसे आम वयस्क renal कर्कट is renal कोशिका  carcinoma .
Cancers , cysts , and some other renal  शर्तें can be प्रबंधित साथ  removal of the kidney , or nephrectomy .
When renal  फलन , measured  by glomerular filtration rate , is persistently poor , dialysis and kidney transplantation may be treatment options .
Although they are not severely harmful , kidney  पत्थरों can be दुखद और a  nuisance .
The removal of kidney stones involves ultrasound treatment to break up the stones into smaller  टुकड़े , जिससे हैं तब passed  through the urinary tract .
One common symptom of kidney  पत्थरों is a शार्प पीड़ा in the  medial/lateral segments of the lower back .
Lockton Companies Inc. is the world 's largest privately held insurance brokerage firm ,  providing बीमे , रिस्क प्रबन्धन और कर्मचारी लाभ समाधान  .
In addition to its  कान्सास नगर , मिसौरी मुख्यालय  , Lockton operates 60 locations in 17 countries .
Lockton is currently home to  अधिक than 4,450 शरीक  worldwide .
The company was  संस्थापित by जोकर lockton in 1966 और रै चूंकि become  the world’s 9th largest insurance brokerage firm .
Lockton serves a wide array of industries with services that include risk management  , casualty , surety , पेशेवर indemnity और अधिक  .
For 46 years , Lockton posted extraordinary  सशुल्क विकास , साथ वैश्विक revenues reaching  $ 915 million in fiscal 2012 .
lockton लाभ समूह : lockton’s कर्मचारी benefit’s टोली  works closely with insurance carriers and administrators to create comprehensive and integrated benefits strategies for clients .
The Lockton Benefits Group provides services including compliance ,  कार्यपालिका लाभ , स्वास्थ्य और welfare , स्वास्थ्य रिस्क समाधान , रिटायरमेंट  and more .
lockton अपनापन : lockton अपनापन , an संबद्ध of lockton कंपनियाँ , meets the बीमे  needs of affinity groups , franchises , professional organizations , and associations of all sizes .
Lockton  अपनापन offers a किस्में  of insurance product options and programs .
Products include : General Liability , Professional Liability , Property , Workers Compensation , Directors & Officers Liability , Commercial Auto ,  specialty कवरेज , excess , स्वास्थ्य योजनाएँ और अधिक  .
Lockton International : Lockton International operates offices in the UK and Ireland , as well  as कार्यालयों throughout एशिया और लैटिन अमेरिका  .
In Europe , Lockton  अंतरराष्ट्रीय is a संगी in eos risq , europe’s अग्रणी बीमे ब्रोकिंग और रिस्क  management consultancy .
EOS RISQ is an equity-based European partnership of major independent insurance brokers with  over 3,500 कर्मचारी आधारित  in more than 30 countries in Europe .
Lockton  अंतरराष्ट्रीय provides specialized समाधान लिये  personal lines , SME’s and major multi-national clients .
White  चॉकलेट is a चॉकलेट  derivative .
It commonly consists of cocoa butter ,  शुगर , मिल्क solids और नमक , और  is characterized by a pale yellow or ivory appearance .
The melting point of cocoa butter , its primary  cocoa सेम घटक , is ऊँची पर्याप्त to रखना  white chocolate solid at room temperature .
Donald Leon `` Don ''  blankenship ( born कूच 14 , 1950 ) थी अध्यक्ष और सीईओ of massey उर्जा  Co. , the sixth largest coal company ( by 2008 production ) in the United States .
He served in  those भूमिकाएँ इससे नवम्बर 30 ,  2000 , until December 31 , 2010 .
Blankenship is an active financial  backer of the रिपब्लिकन पार्टी और भागीदार  in local and state politics , especially in his home state of West Virginia .
He has frequently spoken out publicly about politics ,  the पर्यावरण ,  unions , and coal production .
U.S.  प्रतिभूति और एक्सचेंज आयोग filings दिखाएँ blankenship  was paid $ 17.8 million in 2009 , the highest in the coal industry .
उसके 2009 अदा represents a $ 6.8  million raise over 2008 and almost double his compensation package in 2007 .
Blankenship also received a deferred compensation package  valued at $ 27.2  million in 2009 .
On December 3 , 2010 , Blankenship announced that he was retiring as CEO at the end of the year , and  होता be succeeded by massey अध्यक्ष बैक्सटर F. phillips  Jr .
Bow Wow is one of the transcriptions used in  अंग्रेज़ी to describe a श्वान 's छाल  .
Bow Wow  may भी  refer to:
Bow Wow ( band  ) , a जापानी मुश्किल rock/heavy  metal band
Bow  wow ( rapper ) , an अमरीकी  rapper and actor
Bow Wow Sauce , a sauce developed  in the cotswolds प्रदेश  of England
Bow  wow wow , a  UK new wave band
`` Bow Wow '' , a song by The Fiery Furnaces  इससे उनके 2003 एल्बम gallowsbird  's Bark
`` Bow Wow Blues ( My Mama Treat Me like a Dog ) '' , a song composed in the 1920s by Cliff Friend &  nat  Osborne
Negligence ( Lat . negligentia , from  neglegere , to उपेक्षा , वस्तुतः `` नहीं to चुनें up कुछ '' ) is a विफलता  to exercise the care that a reasonably prudent person would exercise in like circumstances .
The area of tort law known as negligence  involves नुक़सान caused by carelessness  , not intentional harm .
According to Jay M. Feinman of the Rutgers  विश्वविद्यालयों स्कूल  of Law ;
`` The core  विचार of लापरवाही is कि लोगों चाहिए कसरत उचित  care when they act by taking account of the potential harm that they might foreseeably cause harm to other people . ''
`` those who go personally or bring property where they know  कि वे or it may आइये into टक्कर साथ the व्यक्तियों  or property of others have by law a duty cast upon them to use reasonable care and skill to avoid such a collision . ''
Fletcher v Rylands ( [ 1866 ]  lr 1 ex 265  )
Through civil litigation , if an injured person proves that another person  acted negligently to कारण उनके चोट , वे can रिकवर क्षतिपूर्ति to compensate लिये  their harm .
Proving a case for negligence can potentially entitle the injured  अभियोक्ता to मुआवजे लिये नुक़सान to उनके देह , प्रॉपर्टी  , mental well-being , financial status , or intimate relationships .
However , because negligence cases are very fact-specific , this general definition does not fully explain the concept of when the law will  आवश्यकता एक व्यक्ति to compensate another लिये नुकसान caused  by accidental injury .
Further , the law of  लापरवाही at आम विधि is  only one aspect of the law of liability .
Although resulting damages must be proven in order to recover compensation in a  लापरवाही कार्रवाई , the प्रकृति और extent of those क्षतिपूर्ति हैं नहीं the प्राथमिक फ़ोकस of लापरवाही मामले  .
A melanocytic nevus ( also known as `` Nevocytic nevus ''  ) is a प्रकार of lesion कि contains nevus कोशिकाएं ( a प्रकार  of melanocyte ) .
Some sources  equate the पद mole साथ  `` melanocytic nevus '' .
Other  स्त्रोत आरक्षित the पद  `` mole '' for other purposes .
The majority of moles appear during the first two decades of a person’s life , while  परिचय एक in प्रत्येक 100 शिशु is born साथ औज़ार  .
acquired औज़ार हैं a रूप of benign फुलाव , जबकि जन्मजात औज़ार , or जन्मजात  nevi , are considered a minor malformation or hamartoma and may be at a higher risk for melanoma .
A mole can  be either subdermal ( अंतर्गत the स्किन ) or a pigmented  growth on the skin , formed mostly of a type of cell known as a melanocyte .
The high concentration  of the body’s pigmenting एजेंट , मेलेनिन  , is responsible for their dark color .
Moles are a member of the  परिवार of स्किन lesions ज्ञात as  nevi .
The comprehensive metabolic panel , or chemical screen , ( CMP ; CPT  कोड 80053 ) is a फलक of 14 रक्त परीक्षण जिससे serves as an आरंभिक  broad medical screening tool .
The CMP provides a rough check of kidney function , liver function , and electrolyte and fluid  संतुलन , लकिन it is दूर इससे पूर्ण  .
Abnormal values from a CBC may be a result of false positives and  यूँ the cbc may need to be दोहराया लिये a रोगी ( or replaced साथ a  more specific test ) .
The CMP is an expanded version of the basic metabolic  फलक ( bmp ) , जिससे करता नहीं शामिल  liver tests .
A CMP  ( or bmp ) can be ordered as भाग of a दिनचर्या शारीरिक  examination , or may be used to monitor a patient with a chronic disease , such as diabetes mellitus or hypertension .
Previous names for the panel of tests have been Chem 12 , Chemistry panel ,  रसायन स्क्रीन , sma 12 , sma 20 और smac ( sequential अनेक  Analysis - Computer ) .
The tests are performed on machines  आधारित on the autoanalyzer invented  in 1957 .
Natural gas extraction by countries  in घन मीटर प्रति साल .
Natural gas is a naturally occurring hydrocarbon gas  मिश्रण consisting primarily of मिथेन , लकिन commonly  including varying amounts of other hydrocarbons , carbon dioxide , nitrogen , and hydrogen sulfide .
Natural gas is an energy source often  प्रयुक्त लिये हीटिंग , कुकिंग , और विद्युत  generation .
It is also used as fuel for vehicles and as a chemical feedstock in the  manufacture of प्लास्टिक और अन्य commercially महत्वपूर्ण  organic chemicals .
Natural gas is found in  गहन भूमिगत प्राकृतिक चट्टान formations  or associated with other hydrocarbon reservoirs in coal beds and as methane clathrates .
Petroleum is also another resource found in  निकटता to और साथ प्राकृतिक गैस  .
Most natural gas was created  over समय by दो mechanisms : biogenic और  thermogenic .
Biogenic gas is created by  methanogenic जीवों in marshes ,  bogs , landfills , and shallow sediments .
Deeper in the earth , at greater temperature and pressure , thermogenic gas  is निर्मित इससे दफ्न  organic material .
Before natural gas can be used as a fuel , it must undergo processing  to हटाएँ impurities , सहित जल , to मिलें the  specifications of marketable natural gas .
The by-products of processing include ethane , propane , butanes , pentanes , and higher molecular weight hydrocarbons , hydrogen sulfide ( which may be converted into  pure गंधक ) , कार्बन डाइऑक्साइड , जल वाष्प , और sometimes हीलियम और नाइट्रोजन  .
Natural gas is often informally referred to simply as  गैस , विशेषकर जब compared to अन्य उर्जा  sources such as oil or coal .
This page is  परिचय the कल्पना  Movers band .
For  सूचना परिचय the tv दिखाएँ  starring the band , see Imagination Movers ( TV series ) .
Imagination  मूवर्स is a बैंड formed in नई ऑरलियन्स  , Louisiana , in 2003 .
The lineup  शामिल समृद्ध कॉलिन्स , स्कॉट durbin  , Dave Poche , and Scott `` Smitty '' Smith .
सदस्यों of the समूह यहूद  longtime friends and neighbors .
The group started as a television/music concept which  थी pitched to  local PBS affiliates in New Orleans .
WLAE-TV was the first to take an interest in the group and later introduced them to Beth Courtney , the President & Chief  कार्यपालिका अधिकारी at louisiana पब्लिक प्रसारण  .
Soon after , LPB began airing  one-minute वीडियो उत्पादित by  the Imagination Movers themselves .
The Movers built a sizable regional following by setting educational songs for  बच्चे to melodies और लय कि वयस्कों  appreciate as well .
They sold more than 100,000 copies  of उनके self-produced cds और dvds  .
Their three indie CDs : ``  शुभ विचार , '' `` कॉलिंग सब मूवर्स , '' और `` आठ फीट '' साथ साथ उनके ग्रास जड़ें dvd ``  Stir It Up '' have , combined , won fourteen national awards , from such groups as the National Association of Parenting Publications ( NAPPA ) and Parents ' Choice .
In early 2005 , Disney took notice ,  और initiated negotiations to add  the Movers to the company 's roster .
These were interrupted in August when the flood protection designed  और निर्मित by the फौज  Corps of Engineers to protect New Orleans failed .
The resulting  floodwater claimed the बैंड 's दफ्तर , as खूब as the घरों of  Collins , Durbin and Poche – but the deal was signed in the spring of 2006 .
In 2008 , Walt Disney Records introduced the Imagination  मूवर्स ' म्यूज़िक to the स्वदेश साथ the रिलीज  of the Movers ' first nationally-released CD , `` Juice Box Heroes . ''
In  सितंबर 2008 , a 30-minute दिखाएँ featuring the समूह began airing on the  Disney Channel 's preschool programming block known as Playhouse Disney , and currently airs on Playhouse Disney 's replacement , Disney Junior .
The Movers write and perform all the  गीतों on उनके  show .
Moreover , the Imagination Movers have received critical kudos  लिये उनके सजीव  concert performances .
In October 2009 , the Imagination  मूवर्स प्रारंभ the `` सजीव इससे the विचार गोदाम  Concert Tour 2009 '' .
Traveling from mid-October to mid-December 2009 their live performances include lots of  उनके पसंदीदा गीतों और नाचना , as खूब as वीडियो दिखावे  of Warehouse Mouse .
Beginning in early-February 2011 and wrapping up in late May 2011 , the  कल्पना मूवर्स प्रस्तुत उनके `` in a बिग गोदाम कॉन्सर्ट दौरे , '' playing अधिक than  100 shows in 50+ cities across North America .
From March to October 2012 , the  कल्पना मूवर्स toured उत्तर अमेरिका  on their post-Disney `` Rock-O-Matic '' tour .
The show maintained several elements of the original TV concept , such as an on-stage `` idea emergency '' and several  सेट इससे उनके पुरानी कैटलॉग ; however , साथ the प्रस्थान of वेन्डी calio वापस to उसके देशी हवाई , the अक्षर `` नीना '' , साथ  with her musical numbers , is not present .
The tour promotes the Imagination Movers ' new album/DVD release , ``  rock-o-matic  '' , which features all new music from the band .
The album itself is produced independently of Disney and has a  notably अधिक वयस्क , समकालीन rock-and-roll ध्वनि  , though still very appropriate for children .
Several performance dates were moved to later in 2012 to  लाभ इससे the increased एक्सपोज़र  of the Imagination Movers TV show now playing daily on Disney Junior .
The platypus ( Ornithorhynchus anatinus ) is a semiaquatic mammal  endemic to पूर्वी ऑस्ट्रेलिया , सहित तस्मानिया .
Together with the four species of echidna , it is one of the five extant species of  monotremes , the तभी स्तनधारियों कि lay अंडे बजाय of  giving birth .
It is the sole living representative of its family ( Ornithorhynchidae ) and genus ( Ornithorhynchus ) ,  हालांकि a क्रमांक of सम्बन्धित प्रजाति  have been found in the fossil record .
The unusual appearance of this egg-laying , duck -billed , beaver -tailed ,  otter -footed स्तनधारी मनोरथ यूरोपीय naturalists जब वे पहला encountered  it , with some considering it an elaborate fraud .
It is one of the few venomous mammals  , the पुरूष platypus having a spur on the हिन्द पैर  that delivers a venom capable of causing severe pain to humans .
The unique features of the platypus make it an important subject in the study of  विकासवादी जीवविज्ञान और a recognisable और iconic प्रतीक of ऑस्ट्रेलिया ; it रै appeared  as a mascot at national events and is featured on the reverse of its 20-cent coin .
The platypus is the animal emblem of the state of  नई दक्षिण वेल्स  .
Until the early 20th century , it was hunted for its fur ,  लकिन it is अभी सुरक्षित throughout  its range .
Although captive breeding programmes have had only limited success and the  platypus is vulnerable to the प्रभाव of प्रदूषण , it is नहीं अंतर्गत  any immediate threat .
The Chupacabra or Chupacabras ( , from chupar `` to suck '' and cabra `` goat '' ,  वस्तुतः `` बकरी चूषक '' ) is a legendary cryptid rumored to inhabit भाग  of the Americas .
It is associated more recently with sightings of an allegedly unknown animal in Puerto Rico ( where  ये sightings यहूद पहला reported ) , मैक्सिको  , and the United States , especially in the latter 's Latin American communities .
The name comes  इससे the एनिमल 's reported आदत of attacking  and drinking the blood of livestock , especially goats .
Physical  descriptions of the  creature vary .
Eyewitness sightings have been claimed as early as 1995 in Puerto Rico , and have since been  reported as दूर उत्तर as maine , और as दूर दक्षिण as चिली , और भी होने spotted  outside the Americas in countries like Russia and The Philippines .
It is  माना a भारी प्राणी , the आकार of a छोटी भालू  , with a row of spines reaching from the neck to the base of the tail .
Sighting reports of the Chupacabra have been  disregarded as uncorroborated or lacking प्रमाण , जबकि सबसे रिपोर्ट्स in उत्तरी  Mexico and the southern United States have been verified as canids afflicted by mange .
Biologists and wildlife management  officials दृश्य the chupacabra as a समकालीन  legend .
The North American Free Trade Agreement ( NAFTA ) is an agreement  हस्ताक्षरित by कनाडा , मैक्सिको , और the संयुक्त राज्य  , creating a trilateral trade bloc in North America .
the अनुबंध आए into फ़ोर्स  on January 1 , 1994 .
It superseded the Canada–United States Free Trade  अनुबंध between the u.S. , कनाडा , और  Mexico
NAFTA has two supplements : the North American  अनुबंध on पर्यावरणीय सहयोग ( naaec ) और the उत्तर अमरीकी अनुबंध  on Labor Cooperation ( NAALC ) .
Thermal comfort is the condition of mind that expresses  संतोष साथ the थर्मल पर्यावरण और is assessed by subjective मूल्यांकन  ( ANSI / ASHRAE Standard 55 ) .
Maintaining this standard of thermal comfort for occupants of buildings or other enclosures is one of the important goals of HVAC ( heating ,  वेंटिलेशन , और एयर कंडीशनिंग  ) design engineers .
The Predicted Mean Vote ( PMV ) model stands  among the सबसे पहचाना थर्मल सुकून मॉडल .
It was developed using principles of heat balance and experimental data collected in a controlled climate  कक्ष अंतर्गत स्थिर राज्य शर्तें  .
Because the PMV model was derived from data  एकत्रित in a नियंत्रित जलवायु , it is नहीं उपयुक्त लिये अनुप्रयोग in  naturally ventilated spaces which often have high levels of air movement .
This shortcoming motivated the development of a family of empirical  सांख्यिकीय मॉडल of थर्मल सुकून  in naturally ventilated spaces known as adaptive models .
Adaptive models of thermal comfort consider occupants as  dynamically interacting साथ उनके पर्यावरण , और controlling उनके थर्मल सुकून by अर्थात्  of clothing or window-opening and closing .
This is in contrast to thermal comfort in sealed buildings , in which occupants  अनुभव the पर्यावरण passively  .
Thermal comfort is affected by heat  conduction , संवहन , विकिरण , और evaporative ऊष्मा घाटा  .
Thermal comfort is maintained when the heat generated by human metabolism is allowed to dissipate  , यूँ maintaining थर्मल संतुलन  with the surroundings .
It has been long  पहचाना कि the सनसनी of अहसास hot  or cold is not just dependent on air temperature alone .
Thermal  सुकून calculations according to ansi/ashrae  Standard 55 can be freely performed with the CBE Thermal Comfort Tool for ASHRAE-55 .
Durante degli Alighieri , simply referred to  as दांते ( , ; ; c. 1265–1321 ) , थी a प्रमुख  Italian poet of the Middle Ages .
His Divine Comedy , originally called ' and later called ' by  boccaccio , is widely माना the महानतम  literary work composed in the Italian language and a masterpiece of world literature .
In  इटली he  is known as ' ( `` the Supreme Poet '' ) or just ' .
He ,  petrarch और boccaccio हैं भी ज्ञात  as `` the three fountains '' or `` the three crowns '' .
Dante is also called the `` Father of the  इतालवी भाषा ''  .
Headquarters (  कोबे , जापानी  )
( ) is a tire and  रबर कम्पनी आधारित  in Japan .
It is part of the  sumitomo समूह  .
The company traces its origins to 1909 , when the Sumitomo Group made an investment in Dunlop Japan , the  newly formed जापानी subsidiary of the अंग्रेजों  company Dunlop Rubber .
Over the years Sumitomo and Dunlop developed a  बंद कारोबार संबंध , और in 1963 the sumitomo  Group acquired control of Dunlop Japan and renamed it Sumitomo Rubber Industries Ltd .
In 1985 , when Dunlop Rubber was taken over by BTR plc , the company acquired the automobile  टायर एसेट of dunlop , सहित the सही to उपयोग the dunlop ब्रांड  on automobile tires .
the अधिग्रहण किया नहीं शामिल the us और ऑस्ट्रेलियाई व्यवसायों  , which were separately owned , but in 1986 Sumitomo also acquired the Dunlop Tire Corporation of the US from its management .
In 1997 ,  sumitomo formed a संयुक्त venture साथ goodyear टायर और रबर  Company , by which Goodyear and Sumitomo agreed to manufacture tires for each other 's markets , including Dunlop branded tires .
As part of the agreement , Goodyear acquired 75 %  रूचि in dunlop टायर , the uk कम्पनी जिससे sumitomo था formed , और  in Dunlop Tire Corporation .
Goodyear and Sumitomo also  बना निवेश in प्रत्येक  other .
Today , the company makes a wide range of rubber based products , including automobile  टायर , गोल्फ़ गेंदें और टेनिस  balls .
Microsoft Visual Studio Express is a set of freeware integrated development  environments ( आईडीई ) विकसित by microsoft कि हैं lightweight संस्करण of the microsoft विज़ुअल स्टुडियो  product line .
Express  संस्करण यहूद conceived शुरूआत  with Visual Studio 2005 .
The idea of Express  संस्करण is to provide streamlined , easy-to-use और easy-to-learn ides लिये उपयोक्ता  other than professional software developers , such as hobbyists and students .
The Alps are one of the great mountain range systems of Europe stretching approximately across  आठ अल्पाइन देशों इससे ऑस्ट्रिया और स्लोवेनियाई in the ईस्ट , स्विट्ज़रलैंड , liechtenstein , जर्मनी , फ़्रांस  to the west and Italy and Monaco to the south .
The mountains were formed over hundreds of  लाखो of सालो  as the African and Eurasian tectonic plates collided .
Extreme shortening caused by the event resulted in marine  sedimentary रॉक्स उठती by thrusting और फोल्डिंग into ऊँची  mountain peaks such as Mont Blanc and the Matterhorn .
Mont Blanc  spans the french–italian किनारा , और  at is the highest mountain in the Alps .
The Alpine region area contains many peaks higher than ,  ज्ञात as the `` four-thousanders  `` .
The altitude and size of the range  affects the जलवायु in यूरोपीय ; in the kyu  precipitation levels vary greatly and climatic conditions consist of distinct zones .
Wildlife such as ibex live in the higher peaks to  elevations of , और पौधे ऐसे as edelweiss grow in रॉकी क्षेत्रों  in lower elevations as well as in higher elevations .
प्रमाण of इंसान habitation in  the Alps goes back to the Paleolithic era .
A mummified man , determined to be 5,000  सालो बूढ़ा , थी खोजा on a हिमानी  at the Austrian–Italian border in 1991 .
By the 6th century BC , the  सेल्टिक la tène संस्कृति थी खूब  established .
Hannibal may have crossed the Alps with a herd of  हाथियों , और the romans था settlements  in the region .
In 1800 Napoleon  crossed एक of the  mountain passes with an army of 40,000 .
The 18th and 19th centuries saw  an influx of naturalists , लेखक , और कलाकारों , in particular the romantics , followed by the सुनहरी आयु  of alpinism as mountaineers began to ascend the peaks .
In World War II the  तीसरा reich invaded the अल्पाइन देशों , साथ the एक्सेप्शन of  Switzerland and Liechtenstein ; Adolf Hitler kept a base of operation in the Bavarian Alps throughout the war .
The  अल्पाइन प्रदेश रै  a strong cultural identity .
The traditional culture of farming , cheesemaking , and woodworking still exists in Alpine villages , although the tourist industry  began to grow जल्दी in the 20th सदी और विस्तारित greatly बाद संसार युद्ध ii  to become the dominant industry by the end of the century .
The Winter Olympic Games have  महरूम hosted in the स्विस , फ्रेंच , इतालवी  , Austrian and German Alps .
At present the region is home to 14 million people and has 120  लाख सालाना विज़िटर  .
लोइस patrice griffin  ( née Pewterschmidt ) is a character from the animated television series Family Guy .
She is voiced by writer Alex Borstein and first appeared on television , along with the  बाकी of the परिवार in the 15-minute छोटी on दिसम्बर  20 , 1998 .
Lois was created and designed  by श्रेणी निर्माता सेठ macfarlane  .
MacFarlane was asked to pitch a pilot to the Fox Broadcasting Company based on Larry and Steve , a short made by MacFarlane  जिससे प्रदर्शित a middle-aged अक्षर नामित लैरी और an बौद्धिक  dog , Steve .
After the  पायलट थी दिए the ग्रीन लाइट , the griffin परिवार appeared on the  episode `` Death Has a Shadow `` .
Lois  is the माँ  of the Griffin family .
With her husband Peter ,  वो रै था तीन  children : Meg , Chris , and Stewie .
Lois is often portrayed as a stereotypical television mother , despite her admitting to being a  ड्रग उपयोक्ता , a recovering मेथ नशेड़ी kleptomaniac  .
Lois has also had several affairs , one of which  allegedly resulted in the धारणा of मेग  .
She has appeared in other media relating to Family Guy—including a video game , commercials and  books—and प्रेरित an संपूर्ण लकीर of merchandise  .
Lois 's distinctive New York accent originated from a character in a stage show that  एलेक्स borstein था performed in , जिससे थी largely  inspired by a relative who grew up on Long Island , New York .
Family  हस्तांतरण of बास्क भाषा (  Basque as initial language )
Percentage of students  पंजीकृत in बास्क भाषा स्कूलों ( 2000–2005  ) .
Location of the  basque-language प्रांतों भीतर स्पेन  and France
Basque ( endonym : , ) is the ancestral language of the Basque people , who  inhabit the बास्क देश , a प्रदेश spanning an क्षेत्रफल in northeastern स्पेन और southwestern  France .
It is  बोला by 27 % of  Basques in all territories ( 714,136 out of 2,648,998 ) .
Of these , 663,035 live in the  स्पेनी भाग  of the Basque country and the remaining 51,100 live in the French part .
In academic discussions of the distribution of Basque in Spain and France , it is customary  to refer to तीन प्राचीन प्रांतों in फ़्रांस और चार स्पेनी  provinces .
Native speakers are concentrated  in a संलग्न क्षेत्रफल सहित भाग of the स्पेनी autonomous  communities of the Basque Country and Navarre and in the western half of the French département of Pyrénées-Atlantiques .
The Basque Autonomous Community is an administrative  एंटिटी भीतर the binational ethnographic बास्क देश incorporating the परंपरागत  Spanish provinces of Biscay , Gipuzkoa , and Álava , which retain their existence as politico-administrative divisions .
These provinces and many areas of Navarre are heavily populated by ethnic Basques , but Basque was , at least until the 1990s , not spoken as a native language in most of Álava ,  पश्चिमी भाग of biscay और सेंट्रल और दक्षिणी क्षेत्रों of नावारा , either क्युकी it था महरूम replaced by स्पेनी साथ the सदियां , in कुछ क्षेत्रों , or क्युकी it था never महरूम बोला वहीँ , in अन्य क्षेत्रों  .
In southwestern France , the  प्राचीन basque-populated प्रांतों यहूद labourd  , Lower Navarre , and Soule .
They and other regions were consolidated  into a सिंगल département in 1790 अंतर्गत the नाम basses-pyrénées  , a name which persisted until 1970 .
A standardized form of the Basque language ,  पुकारा euskara batua , थी विकसित  by the Basque Language Academy in the late 1960s .
Euskara Batua was created so that Basque language could be used—and easily understood by all Basque speakers—in formal  परिस्थितियों ( शिक्षा , द्रव्यमान मीडिया , साहित्य ) , और इस  is its main use today .
The role of this  मानक बास्क भाषा depends  on the linguistic educational model of each region and each school .
In most areas of the Spanish Basque Country , the educational Model D , where all subjects are taught in Basque , except `` Spanish  भाषा और साहित्य '' ( जिससे is सिखाया in  Spanish ) is now the predominant model .
In France , the Basque language school Seaska and the association for a bilingual ( Basque and French ) schooling Ikasbi meet a  चौड़ी दायरा of बास्क भाषा शैक्षणिक needs up to the छठे रूप , जबकि प्रायः struggling to surmount वित्तीय और  administrative constraints .
Apart from this  मानकीकृत संस्करण , वहीँ हैं पाँच प्रमुख बास्क dialects : bizkaian  , Gipuzkoan , and Upper Navarrese in Spain , and Navarrese–Lapurdian and Zuberoan ( in France ) .
हालांकि वे लो उनके names इससे the उल्लेखित ऐतिहासिक प्रांतों  , the dialect boundaries are not congruent with province boundaries .
The President , Directors and Company , of the Bank of the  संयुक्त राज्य , commonly ज्ञात as the पहला बैंको of the संयुक्त राज्य , थी a सेंट्रल  bank , chartered for a term of twenty years , by the United States Congress on February 25 , 1791 .
Establishment of the  बैंको थी शामिल in a three-part विस्तार of संघीय फिस्कल और मौद्रिक शक्ति ( साथ साथ a संघीय  mint and excise taxes ) championed by Alexander Hamilton , first Secretary of the Treasury .
Hamilton believed a central bank was necessary to  stabilize और improve the स्वदेश 's क्रेडिट , और  to improve handling of the financial business of the United States government under the newly enacted Constitution .
Officially proposed to the first session of the First  कॉंग्रेस in 1790 , हैमिल्टन 's बैंको faced फैली प्रतिरोध इससे  opponents of increased federal power .
सचिव of राज्य थामस जेफरसन और जेम्स मैडिसन led the विपक्ष , जिससे claimed  that the bank was unconstitutional , and that it benefited merchants and investors at the expense of the majority of the population .
The First Bank building is  अभी a नेशनल ऐतिहासिक लैंडमार्क स्तिथ in  Philadelphia , Pennsylvania within Independence National Historical Park .
James Wesley Marsters ( born  अगस्त 20 , 1962 ) is an अमरीकी कर्ता  and musician .
Marsters first came to the attention of the  सामान्य पब्लिक playing the लोकप्रिय अक्षर स्पाइक , a platinum-blond yobbish अंग्रेज़ी पिशाच in the  television series Buffy the Vampire Slayer and its spin-off series , Angel , from 1997 to 2004 .
Since then , he has gone on to play other science fiction roles , such as the alien supervillain Brainiac on the Superman -inspired  श्रेणी smallville , the omnisexual समय मुसाफ़िर कप्तान जॉन हार्ट in अंग्रेजों science-fiction दिखाएँ torchwood और आतंकवादी  Barnabas Greeley in Sci fi 's Caprica .
marsters appeared in a supporting  role in the 2007 movie P.S .
I Love You and as the main antagonist  , piccolo , in the 2009 काल्पनिक  adventure film Dragonball Evolution .
He appeared as a recurring character in  the पहला ऋतु of the पुनरुद्धार  of Hawaii 5-0 .
In molecular biology , human chorionic gonadotropin (  hcg ) is a हार्मोन उत्पादित by the निषेचित  egg after conception .
Later during pregnancy it is made by  the विकासशील placenta , और बाद by the  placental component syncytiotrophoblast .
Some cancerous tumors produce this hormone ;  इसलिए , elevated स्तर measured जब the रोगी  is not pregnant can lead to a cancer diagnosis .
However , it is not known whether this production  is a contributing कारण or an प्रभाव of tumorigenesis  .
The pituitary analogue of hCG , known as luteinizing hormone ( LH ) , is  उत्पादित in the pituitary ग्रंथि of males और महिलाओं  of all ages .
, the  एफडीए रै निषिद्ध the बिक्री of `` होम्योपैथिक '' और over the काउंटर  hCG diet products and declared them fraudulent and illegal .
Beyoncé Giselle Knowles-Carter ,  ज्ञात by उसके स्टेज नाम बेयोंस ( ; born  September 4 , 1981 ) , is an American singer , songwriter , dancer , and actress .
born और उठाया in ह्यूस्टन , टेक्सास , वो performed in गायन और नाचना प्रतियोगिताओं as a चाइल्ड पहले  forming in 1990 a group with Kelly Rowland and LaTavia Roberson that was eventually named Destiny 's Child .
Once signed to  कोलंबिया रिकॉर्ड , the लड़कियों subsequently became  one of the world 's best-selling girl groups of all time .
The group was plagued by internal conflict and legal turmoil  और नॉलेस suffered इससे अवसाद कि lasted  for a number of years .
During the group 's hiatus , Knowles released her debut solo album  dangerously in प्रेम ( 2003 ) , जिससे अर्जित उसके पाँच ग्रैमी  Awards and has sold a total of 4.9 million copies in the US alone .
It spawned  बिलबोर्ड क्रमांक एक singles `` क्रेजी in प्रेम , '' माना  by VH1 to be the `` Greatest Song Of the 00 's , '' and `` Baby Boy . ''
Following the disbandment of Destiny 's Child in 2005 , Knowles  's दूसरी सोलो एल्बम b'day ( 2006 ) contained the शीर्ष पाँच singles `` déjà vu  `` , `` Irreplaceable `` , and `` Beautiful Liar `` .
Her  प्रदर्शन in dreamgirls ( 2006 ) अर्जित उसके  two Golden Globe nominations .
नॉलेस ' कार्य playing etta  James in that film inspired her subsequent album I Am ...
Sasha Fierce ( 2008 ) which spawned hits `` If I Were a Boy `` , `` Single Ladies (  put a रिंग on it ) `` , `` हेलो `` , और `` मीठी सपनो  `` .
The album also helped  नॉलेस earn छह grammys in 2010  , breaking the record for most Grammy Awards won by a female artist in one night .
Her fourth  एल्बम 4 ( 2011 ) deviated towards परंपरागत  R & B and became her fourth consecutive number one album on the Billboard 200 .
In January 2012 , Knowles gave birth to daughter  ब्लू आइवी कार्टर , उसके पहला चाइल्ड साथ husband jay-z  .
Knowles has  बेची over 13 लाख एल्बम in the us और 118 लाख रिकॉर्ड विश्वव्यापी ( as खूब as a further  50 million records with Destiny 's Child ) , and is one of the best-selling music artists of all time .
The Recording Industry Association of America ( RIAA )  पहचाना नॉलेस as the शीर्ष certified कलाकार  of the 2000s .
In 2009 , Billboard named her  the शीर्ष रेडियो गीतों कलाकार of the दशक और क्रमित उसके  the Top Female Artist and the fourth Artist of the Decade .
Beyoncé Knowles is the most nominated woman in Grammy Award history , receiving 17 awards ; other accolades  शामिल 12 एमटीवी वीडियो म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार , 7 बिलबोर्ड पुरस्कार सहित a मिलेनियम पुरस्कार , और a स्टार on the हॉलीवुड चलना of कीर्ति as भाग of नियति 's चाइल्ड .
`` Angry All the Time '' is the title of a song written by  ब्रूस robison और पहला अंकित  on his 1998 album Wrapped .
It was later covered by Tim  mcgraw साथ अतिथि vocalist  Faith Hill .
Released in July  2001 , mcgraw 's संस्करण थी the दूसरी सिंगल इससे mcgraw  's Set This Circus Down album .
The song reached Number One on the Billboard Hot Country Singles &  ट्रैक्स ( अभी hot देश  Songs ) charts .
Dear John is a 2010 American romantic drama - war film starring Amanda Seyfried  और चेनिंग  Tatum .
It was released  theatrically in उत्तर अमेरिका  on February 5 , 2010 .
The film was  निर्देशित by lasse hallström , और it is  an adaptation of Nicholas Sparks 's novel of the same name .
It follows the life of a soldier ( Channing Tatum ) after he falls in love with  a यंग स्त्री ( अमांडा  Seyfried ) .
They decide to exchange letters to each other after he is  तैनात to the युद्ध .
The movie was filmed in 2009 in  चार्ल्सटन ,  South Carolina .
Despite receiving negative reviews , the film made a strong box  दफ्तर प्रदर्शन , knocking बंद अवतार बाद सात सप्ताहांत  in first place and grossing a total of $ 114,977,104 worldwide .
The film was released on May 25 , 2010 on  dvd और blu-ray  .
These are lists of the  व्यस्ततम एयरपोर्ट in the संयुक्त  States .
Hartsfield–Jackson Atlanta International Airport  is the व्यस्ततम सिंगल विमानक्षेत्र in the संयुक्त राज्य  .
However , all of  the नई यॉर्क नगर महानगर क्षेत्रफल 's एयरपोर्ट combine to बनाएँ the largest विमानक्षेत्र प्रणाली in the संयुक्त राज्य ,  second in the world in terms of passenger traffic , and first in the world in terms of total flight operations .
Dora the  एक्सप्लोरर is an अमरीकी एनिमेटेड टेलीविज़न श्रेणी  created by Chris Gifford , Valerie Walsh , and Eric Weiner .
Dora the Explorer became a  नियमित श्रेणी in 2000 .
The show is carried on the Nickelodeon cable  टेलीविज़न संजाल , सहित  the associated Nick Jr. channel .
It aired  on सीबीएस जबतक सितंबर  2006 .
A Spanish-dubbed version first aired as part of a Nick en español block on NBC Universal -owned Telemundo through September  2006 ; चूंकि अप्रैल 2008 , इस संस्करण of the कार्यक्रम रै महरूम carried  on Univision as part of the Planeta U block .
Santa Fe ( ;  ( tewa : ogha po'oge , ) ) is  the capital of the U.S. state of New Mexico .
it is the fourth-largest  city in the state and is the seat of .
Santa Fe ( meaning “holy faith” in Spanish ) had a  जनसांख्यिकी of 67,947 in the 2010  census .
It is the principal city of a Metropolitan  सांख्यिकीय क्षेत्रफल जिससे encompasses सब of सांता fe काउंटी और  is part of the larger Albuquerque-Santa Fe-Las Vegas Combined Statistical Area .
The city’s full  नाम जब संस्थापित थी la विला रियल de la सांता fé de सैन फ्रांसिस्को de  Asís ( “The Royal Town of the Holy Faith of St. Francis of Assisi” ) .
Pepsi ( stylized in lowercase  as पेप्सी , formerly stylized in अपरकेस as पेप्सी ) is  a carbonated soft drink that is produced and manufactured by PepsiCo .
Created and developed in 1893 and introduced as Brad 's  पेय , it थी renamed as pepsi-cola on अगस्त 28 ,  1898 , then to Pepsi in 1961 .
1765 broadside
The Sons of Liberty  थी a समूह consisting of अमरीकी देशप्रेमी कि originated  in the pre-independence North American British colonies .
the समूह थी formed to protect  the rights of the colonists and to take to the streets against the taxes by the British government .
They are best known for  undertaking the बोस्टन चाय पार्टी in 1773 , जिससे led to the असहनीय  Acts ( an intense crackdown by the British government ) , and a counter-mobilization by the Patriots .
ओसाका किला
is a city in the Kansai region of  जापानी 's प्रमुख द्वीप of होन्शू , a designated नगर अंतर्गत the लोकल स्वायत्तता  Law , the capital city of Osaka Prefecture and also the largest part of the Keihanshin metropolis , which comprises three major cities of Japan , Kyoto , Osaka and Kobe .
Located at  the मुँह of the yodo नदी on ओसाका  Bay , Osaka is Japan 's third largest city by population after Tokyo ( special wards ) and Yokohama .
keihanshin is the दूसरी largest महानगर क्षेत्रफल in जापानी by जनसांख्यिकी और एक  of the largest metropolitan areas highly ranked in the world , with nearly 19 million people , and by GDP the second largest area in Japan and the seventh largest area in the world .
Historically  the वाणिज्यिक बीच of  Japan , Osaka functions as one of the command centers for the Japanese economy .
The ratio  between दिन और  night time population is 141 % , the highest in Japan , highlighting its status as an economic center .
Its nighttime population is 2.6 million , the third in the country , but in daytime the population surges to 3.7 million , second only after Tokyo ( combining the special wards of  टोकियो , जिससे is नहीं a सिंगल incorporated नगर , लिये सांख्यिकीय  purposes ; see the Tokyo article for more information on the definition and makeup of Tokyo ) .
Osaka used to be  referred to as the in सामंती ईदो काल क्युकी it थी the केन्द्र of व्यापार  for rice , creating the first modern futures exchange market in the world .
The Little Mermaid  is a 1989 अमरीकी एनिमेटेड musical काल्पनिक  film produced by Walt Disney Feature Animation and distributed by Walt Disney Pictures .
Based on the Danish  परी टेल by hans ईसाई andersen , the छोटी मरमेड tells  the story of a beautiful mermaid who dreams of becoming human .
Written , directed , and produced by  रॉन क्लेमेंट्स और जॉन musker , साथ म्यूज़िक by एलन menken और हावर्ड ashman , the फिल्मी सुविधाएँ the आवाज़ें  Jodi Benson , Christopher Daniel Barnes , Pat Carroll , Samuel E. Wright , Jason Marin , Kenneth Mars , Buddy Hacket , and Rene Auberjonois .
The 28th film in the Walt Disney Animated Classics series , The Little Mermaid was released to theaters on November 14 , 1989 to largely positive reviews , garnering $ 84 million at the box  दफ्तर दौरान इसके आरंभिक रिलीज  , and $ 211 million in total lifetime gross .
After  the कामयाबी of the 1988 डिज़्नी / amblin फिल्मी जो framed रोजर खरगोश , the  Little Mermaid is given credit for breathing life back into the art of Disney animated feature films after a string of critical or commercial failures produced by Disney that dated back to the early 1970s .
It  भी चिह्नित the प्रारंभ of the  era known as the Disney Renaissance .
a स्टेज अनुकूलन of the फिल्मी साथ a किताब by डग राइट और  additional songs by Alan Menken and new lyricist Glenn Slater opened in Denver in July 2007 and began performances on Broadway January 10 , 2008 .
alt=Close-up  फ़ोटो of a मेटल चमचा भर  with a viscous , clear purple fluid
Purple drank is a slang term for  a recreational ड्रग लोकप्रिय in the हिप हॉप जातियाँ  in the southern United States , originating in Houston , Texas .
Its main  संघटक is नुस्खा  -strength cough syrup containing codeine and promethazine .
Cough  सिरप is typically मिश्रित साथ संघटक  such as Sprite soft drink or Mountain Dew and pieces of Jolly Rancher candy .
The  purplish वर्ण of जामुनी  drank comes from dyes in the cough syrup .
There are numerous slang terms for  जामुनी पिया , सहित sizzurp , झुकना , सिरप  , drank , barre , purple jelly , Texas tea , and Tsikuni .
First/given , middle , and  last/family/surname आरेख साथ J. S.  Bach as example .
J. S. Bach shared his given name with six  तात्कालिक परिवार सदस्यों और अनेक विस्तारित  family members .
He shared  उसके परिवार  name with most family members .
A given name , in Western contexts often referred to as a first name , is a personal name that specifies and differentiates between members of a group of  individuals , विशेषकर in a परिवार , सब of जिनकी सदस्यों प्रायः share the वही परिवार  name ( surname ) .
A  दिए नाम is purposefully दिए , प्रायः by  a child 's parents at or near birth , in contrast to an inherited one such as a family name .
A given name is  sometimes legally बदला through  a name change .
Given names are often used in a familiar and  दोस्ताना manner in अनौपचारिक परिस्थितियों  .
In more formal  परिस्थितियों the उपनाम is प्रयुक्त बजाय , जबतक  it is necessary to distinguish between people with the same surname .
The idiom `` on a first-name basis '' ( or `` on  first-name शर्तें '' ) alludes to the अपनेपन  of addressing another by a given name .
The western style of having both a family name ( surname ) and  a दिए नाम is दूर इससे सार्वभौमिक  .
In many countries it is common for ordinary  लोगों to have तभी एक नाम ( a mononym  ) .
Hydrochloric  एसिड is a साफ , colourless  solution of hydrogen chloride ( H Cl ) in water .
It is a highly  क्षयकारी , दमदार खनिज एसिड साथ अनेक औद्योगिक  uses .
Hydrochloric acid is found  naturally in gastric  acid .
historically पुकारा muriatic एसिड , और आत्माओं  of salt , hydrochloric acid was produced from vitriol ( sulfuric acid ) and common salt .
It first appeared during the Renaissance , and then it was used by chemists such as  glauber , प्रीस्टलि और डेवी in उनके  scientific research .
With major production starting in the Industrial Revolution , hydrochloric acid is used in the  रासायनिक उद्योग as a रासायनिक अभिकर्मक in the large-scale उत्पादन of विनाइल chloride  for PVC plastic , and MDI / TDI for polyurethane .
It has numerous smaller-scale  अनुप्रयोग , सहित household सफ़ाई , उत्पादन of जिलेटिन और  other food additives , descaling , and leather processing .
About 20 million tonnes of  हाइड्रोक्लोरिक एसिड हैं उत्पादित  annually .
Wheat ( Triticum spp  . ) is a खाद्यान्न अनाज , originally  from the Levant region of the Near East and Ethiopian Highlands , but now cultivated worldwide .
In 2010 , world  उत्पादन of गेहूं थी 651 लाख टन , बनाना it the तीसरा most-produced  cereal after maize ( 844 million tons ) and rice ( 672 million tons ) .
Wheat was the second most-produced cereal in  2009 ; संसार उत्पादन in कि साल थी 682 लाख टन  , after maize ( 817 million tons ) , and with rice as a close third ( 679 million tons ) .
इस अनाज is grown  on more land area than any other commercial food .
World trade in wheat is greater  than लिये सब अन्य फसलों  combined .
Globally , wheat is the leading  सोर्स of सब्ज़ी प्रोटीन in इंसान खाना , having a उच्चतर  protein content than soybeans or the other major cereals , maize ( corn ) or rice .
In terms of total production tonnages used for food , it is currently second to rice as the main human food crop and ahead of maize ,  बाद allowing लिये मक्का 's अधिक extensive उपयोग in एनिमल फ़ीड्स  .
Wheat was a key factor enabling the emergence of city-based societies at the start of civilization because it was one of the  पहला फसलों कि could be easily cultivated on a विशाल स्केल , और था the अतिरिक्त लाभ of  yielding a harvest that provides long-term storage of food .
Wheat contributed to the  emergence of city-states in the fertile crescent  , including the Babylonian and Assyrian empires .
Wheat grain is a staple food used to make flour for leavened , flat and steamed breads , biscuits , cookies , cakes ,  नाश्ता खाद्यान्न , पास्ता , नूडल्स , couscous और  for fermentation to make beer , other alcoholic beverages , or biofuel .
Wheat is planted to a limited extent as a forage crop for livestock , and its straw can be  प्रयुक्त as a निर्माण सामग्री लिये  roofing thatch .
The whole grain can be milled to  छोड़ बस the भ्रूणपोष लिये  white flour .
The  by-products of इस  are bran and germ .
The whole grain is a concentrated source of vitamins , minerals , and  प्रोटीन , जबकि the परिष्कृत अनाज is ज़्यादातर  starch .
मुद्रण
To publish is to make  सामग्री उपलब्धियाँ to the  general public .
While specific use of the term may vary among countries , it is usually  लागू to टेक्स्ट , बिंब , or अन्य audio-visual सामग्री on कोई परंपरागत  medium , including paper ( newspapers , magazines , catalogs , etc . ) .
The word publication means the act of  प्रकाशन , और भी refers to कोई मुद्रित  copies .
Melissa & Joey is an ABC  परिवार असली टेलीविज़न श्रेणी  starring Melissa Joan Hart and Joey Lawrence .
It first  aired on एबीसी  Family on August 17 , 2010 .
The series  फ़ॉलो लोकल राजनेता mel बुर्के ( मेलिसा जोन हार्ट ) और जो longo ( जॉय  Lawrence ) , whom Mel hires to look after her niece and nephew after a Ponzi scheme leaves him broke .
The series was renewed by ABC Family for a second season of fifteen  एपीसोड , जिससे began airing on may 30 , 2012 और  ended on August 29 , 2012 .
Melissa & Joey ranks as cable TV 's # 1 telecast at 8 o'clock across target  ऑडियंस 18–34 , 18–49 और  12–34 demographics .
On  अगस्त 17 , 2012 , एबीसी परिवार नवीनीकृत  Melissa & Joey for a third season , set to premiere in spring 2013 .
The  धर्मं व्हील  , often used to represent the Noble Eightfold Path
The Noble Eightfold Path ( , ) is one of the  प्रिंसिपल शिक्षाओं of the बुद्ध , जो वर्णित it as  the way leading to the cessation of suffering ( dukkha ) and the achievement of self-awakening .
It is used to develop insight into the true  प्रकृति of phenomena ( or वास्तविकता ) और to eradicate लोभ  , hatred , and delusion .
The Noble Eightfold Path is the fourth of the Buddha 's Four Noble Truths ; the first element of the Noble Eightfold Path is  , in फेरे , an समझना of the चार प्रतिष्ठित सच्चाई  .
It is also  ज्ञात as  the Middle Path or Middle Way .
All eight elements of  the पाथ शुरू साथ the शब्द `` सही '' , जिससे  translates the word samyañc ( in Sanskrit ) or sammā ( in Pāli ) .
These denote completion ,  एकजुटता , और coherence , और can भी  suggest the senses of `` perfect '' or `` ideal '' .
'Samma ' is also  अनूदित as `` wholesome '' , ``  wise '' and `` skillful '' .
In Buddhist symbolism , the Noble Eightfold Path is often  represented by अर्थात् of the धर्मं व्हील ( dharmachakra ) , जिनकी आठ तीलियां  represent the eight elements of the path .
The Grammy Award for Song of the Year is an honor presented at the Grammy Awards , a ceremony  कि थी स्थापित in 1958 और originally  called the Gramophone Awards .
Awards in several categories are distributed annually by the National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences of the United States to `` honor artistic achievement ,  तकनीकी proficiency और overall excellence in the रिकॉर्डिंग उद्योग , बगैर लिहाज़ to एल्बम बिक्री or  chart position . ''
Economics is  the सोशल विज्ञान कि  analyzes the production , distribution , and consumption of goods and services .
The term economics comes from the  प्राचीन यूनानी ( ' , `` प्रबन्धन of a household , प्रशासन '' ) इससे ( ' , `` हाउस  '' ) + ( ' , `` custom '' or `` law '' ) , hence `` rules of the house ( hold ) '' .
Political economy was the earlier name for the subject , but economists in the late 19th century suggested `` economics '' as a shorter term for `` economic science '' that also avoided a narrow  political-interest connotation और as समान in रूप to `` गणित `` , `` आचार '' , और  so forth .
A focus of the subject is how economic agents  व्यवहार or interact और कैसा economies  work .
Consistent with this ,  a प्राथमिक textbook  distinction is between microeconomics and macroeconomics .
microeconomics examines the बर्ताव of मौलिक तत्व in the अर्थव्यवस्था , सहित  individual agents ( such as households and firms or as buyers and sellers ) and markets , and their interactions .
macroeconomics analyzes the संपूर्ण अर्थव्यवस्था और  issues affecting it , including unemployment , inflation , economic growth , and monetary and fiscal policy .
Other broad distinctions include those between positive economics ( describing `` what is '' ) and normative economics ( advocating `` what ought to be '' ) ; between economic theory and applied economics ; between rational and behavioral economics ; and between mainstream economics (  अधिक `` परंपरागत '' और dealing साथ the `` rationality-individualism-equilibrium नेक्सस '' ) और शास्त अर्थशास्त्र ( अधिक `` कट्टरपंथी '' और dealing साथ the `` institutions-history-social  structure nexus '' ) .
Economic  विश्लेषण may be लागू throughout समाज , as in कारोबार , वित्त  , health care , and government , but also to such diverse subjects as crime , education , the family , law , politics , religion , social institutions , war , and science .
At the turn of the 21st century , the  expanding डोमेन  of economics in the social sciences has been described as economic imperialism .
An increasing number of economists have called for increased emphasis on environmental  स्थिरता ; इस क्षेत्रफल of शोध is ज्ञात as ecological  economics .
This is a list of Schedule IV drugs under the Controlled  substances अधिनियम लिये the संयुक्त  States .
जरूरी निष्कर्षों लिये  drugs to be placed in this schedule:
The drug or other substance has a low potential for abuse  सापेक्ष to the दवाएँ or अन्य substances  in schedule III .
The drug or other substance has a  फिलहाल स्वीकृत चिकित्सा  use in treatment in the United States .
Abuse of the drug or other substance may lead to limited physical dependence or psychological  dependence सापेक्ष to the दवाएँ or अन्य substances  in schedule III .
The complete list of Schedule IV  दवाएँ हैं as फ़ॉलो  .
The Administrative Controlled Substances Code  क्रमांक लिये प्रत्येक ड्रग is शामिल  .
US county household  मध्य आय 2009  .
Median US  household आय , 2001-2011
household आय is a माप  commonly used by the United States government and private institutions .
Each household is measured by the income of every  निवासी over the आयु  of 15 .
Income includes wages and salaries ,  बेरोजगारी बीमे , विकलांगता भुगतान , चाइल्ड support भुगतान  received , regular rental receipts , as well as any personal business , investment , or other kinds of income received routinely .
While inflation-adjusted ( `` real '' ) household income had  महरूम increasing लगभग प्रत्येक साल इससे 1945 to 1999  , it has since been flat and even decreased recently .
U.S. median  household आय गिरी इससे $ 51,144  in 2010 to $ 50,502 in 2011 .
Extreme poverty in the United States , meaning households living on less than $ 2 per day before government  लाभ , doubled इससे 1996 to 1.5 लाख households in 2011 , सहित  2.8 million children .
The  निवासियों of the household do नहीं have to be सम्बन्धित  to the head of the household for their earnings to be considered part of the household 's income .
As households tend to share a similar economic  कॉन्टेक्स्ट , the उपयोग of household आय remains  among the most widely accepted measures of income .
That the size of a household is not commonly taken into account in such measures may distort any analysis of fluctuations within or among the household income  श्रेणी , और may रेंडर सीधा comparisons between quintiles मुश्किल or भी नामुमकिन  .
The lapse rate is defined as the rate  of घटी साथ ऊँचाई लिये  an atmospheric variable .
The variable involved  is तापमान जबतक  specified otherwise .
The terminology arises from the word lapse in the  भाव of a घटी or मनाही  .
While most often applied to Earth 's atmosphere the concept can be extended  to कोई gravitationally समर्थित  ball of gas .
Blue Mountain State is an American comedy  श्रेणी कि premiered on स्पाइक on जनवरी 11 , 2010 .
The series producers include Chris Romano and Eric Falconer , and it is produced  by lionsgate टेलीविज़न  .
The series is  परिचय a fictional विश्वविद्यालयों , ब्लू पहाड़  State , and its football team , `` The Mountain Goats . ''
It portrays certain aspects of American  विश्वविद्यालयों जीवन , सहित फ़ुटबॉल  , sex , binge drinking , drugs , wild partying , and hazing .
In February 2012 , it was  reported कि  Blue Mountain State would not be renewed for a fourth season .
In March 2013 , Ed Marinaro stated that he is working on a  ब्लू पहाड़ राज्य फिल्मी  .
Apple Inc. , formerly Apple  कंप्यूटर , inc. , is an अमरीकी बहुराष्ट्रीय निगम headquartered  in Cupertino , California that designs , develops , and sells consumer electronics , computer software and personal computers .
Its best-known hardware products are the Mac line of computers , the iPod music player ,  the iphone स्मार्टफोन , और the ipad टैब्लेट कंप्यूटर .
Its software includes the OS X  और आईओएस ऑपरेटिंग प्रणालियों , the itunes मीडिया ब्राउजर , the safari  web browser , and the iLife and iWork creativity and production suites .
The company was founded on April 1 , 1976 , and incorporated as  ठहराना कंप्यूटर , inc. on  January 3 , 1977 .
The word `` Computer '' was removed from its name on January 9 ,  2007 , reflecting इसके shifted फ़ोकस towards  consumer electronics after the introduction of the iPhone .
Apple is the world 's second-largest information technology company by revenue  बाद samsung इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स , और the संसार 's third-largest मोबाईल फोन मेकर बाद samsung और  Nokia .
Fortune magazine  नामित ठहराना the सबसे admired  company in the United States in 2008 , and in the world from 2008 to 2012 .
however , the कम्पनी रै प्राप्त आलोचना लिये इसके  contractors ' labor practices , and for Apple 's own environmental and business practices .
,  ठहराना maintains 394 खुदरा स्टोर्स in चौदह  countries as well as the online Apple Store and iTunes Store .
It is the second-largest  सरेआम traded निगम in the संसार  by market capitalization , with an estimated value of US $ 414 billion as of January 2013 .
, the company had 72,800 permanent full-time employees and 3,300 temporary full-time  कर्मचारी विश्वव्यापी  .
Its worldwide  सालाना आय in 2012 totalled $ 156  billion .
खण्ड 8 आवास  in the South Bronx
Section 8 of the Housing Act of 1937 ( ) , often simply known as Section 8 , as repeatedly amended , authorizes the  भुगतान of rental आवास सहायता to निजी जमींदार on निमित्त of लगभग  3.1 million low-income households .
It operates through several programs , the largest of which , the  आवास चुनाव वाउचर कार्यक्रम , pays  a large portion of the rents and utilities of about 2.1 million households .
The US Department of Housing  और शहरी विकास manages the खण्ड  8 programs .
The Housing Choice  वाउचर कार्यक्रम provides `` tenant-based '' rental सहायता , so a किरायेदार can मूव  from one unit of at least minimum housing quality to another .
It also allows individuals to apply their  मासिक वाउचर towards the खरीदें of a घर , साथ over $ 17 अरब going towards  such purchases each year ( from ncsha.org analysis ) .
The  अधिकतम अनुमत वाउचर  is $ 2200 a month .
Section 8 also authorizes a variety of `` project-based '' rental assistance programs , under which the owner reserves some or all of the units in a building for low-income tenants , in return  लिये a संघीय सरकारी गारंटी to मेक up the अंतर between the किरायेदार 's योगदान और  the rent for 1 cent in the owner 's contract with the government .
A tenant who leaves a  subsidized प्रोजेक्ट होगा खोना अभिगम  to the project-based subsidy .
The United States Department of Housing and Urban Development and United States Department of Veterans Affairs have a special Section 8 program called VASH ( Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing ) , or HUD-VASH , which gives out a certain number of  खण्ड 8 वाउचर to योग्य बेघर और वरना vulnerable us हथियारबंद शक्तियां दिग्गजों  .
Restaurants categorized by type  और सूचना परिचय ये  different types .
U.S.  संघीय आरक्षित टीप  in the mid-1990s
The history of the  संयुक्त राज्य डालर कवर  more than 200 years .
