A partly submerged glacier cave on perito Moreno Glacier .
The barf mukhar is approximately 60 m high
Ice formations in the Titlis himne gufa
A glacier cave is a gufa formed bhitr the ice of a glacier .
Glacier caves are often called ice caves , but this term is properly used to describe bedrock caves kiya contain year-round barf .
In physics , circular motion is a movement of an object along the prrhira of a vrat or rotation along a circular path .
It can be uniform , with constant angular rate of rotaon ( aor nirtar gati ) , or non-uniform with a changing rate of rotation .
The rotation around a fixed axis of a three-dimensional deh involves circular motion of its parts .
The equations of motion describe the gati of the bech of mass of a body .
Examples of circular motion include : an artificial satellite orbiting the Earth at constant height , a stone jisse is tied to a rassi aor is hona swung in vrat , a car turning through a curve in a race track , an electron moving perpendicular to a uniform magnetic field , and a gear turning inside a mechanism .
Since the object 's velocity vector is constantly badnla disha , the chalti aakt is undergoing acceleration by a centripetal force in the direction of the center of rotation .
Without inse twarn , the object would move in a straight line , according to Newton 's laws of motion .
aplo panth is a fictional ashrr isse the Rocky films , initially portrayed as the Undisputed Heavyweight Champion of the World .
He was played by Carl weathers .
Creed had multiple nicknames , including The Master of Disaster , The King of Sting , The Dancing Destroyer , The Prince of Punch , The One and Only and The Count of mote Fisto .
Urban legend raay kiya aplo panth 's naam is a wordplay on the rulo ' Creed , a statement of belief used in Christian churches .
All of Apollo 's championship fights were scheduled liya the 15 golar ulhara .
Championship fights did not convert from 15 rounds to 12 rounds until 1987 .
Rocky Balboa is often wrongly credited with popularizing the red , white , and blue trunks ; Creed was the first man to wear them ( latterly worn by Rocky Balboa in the 3rd and 4th installments and finally by Tommy `` the antar '' gunn ( tamm morsio ) in the 5th installment ) although normally he wore red and white , as seen in Rocky II .
Balboa 's signature rango yhoo blaec aor kaa he used in the latest movie .
In the United States , the title of federal judge usually means a judge appointed by the President of the United States and pushi by the sont raay sinte pursuant to the nitki Clause in Article II of the United States Constitution .
In addition to the pram adalt of the sont raay , jinke astivat aor kuch faluo of jinke chastar hain pura the constitutional power of Congress to alter , acts of Congress have established 13 courts of appeals ( also called `` circuit courts '' ) with appellate jurisdiction over different regions of the United States , and 94 United States district courts .
Every judge appointed to such a court may be categorized as a federal ndeshi ; aisa sthai shaml the mukhy Justice and Associate Justices of the Supreme Court , Circuit Judges of the courts of appeals , and district judges of the United States district courts .
All of these judges varnn yaun dhur hain referred to sometimes as `` aleh III judges '' because they exercise the judicial power vested in the judicial branch of the federal government by Article III of the U.S. Constitution .
In jod , dhythoii of the adalt of International Trade exercise judicial power pursuant to Article III .
Other judges serving in the sanhiyn nyloy , including magistrate judges and bankruptcy judges , are also sometimes referred to as `` federal judges '' ; however , they are neither appointed by the President nor confirmed by the Senate , and their power derives from Article I instead .
See aleh I and Article III tribunals .
The Beretta 21A Bobcat is a small pocket-sized semi-automatic pistol designed by beretta in itli .
Production began in late 1984 , solely in the beretta u.s.A. swida in Accokeek , Maryland .
It is a further development of the Beretta Model 20 , whose utpann ended in 1985 .
Variable Universal Life Insurance ( often shortened to VUL ) is a type of life bima kiya builds a nadi value .
In a VUL , the cash value can be invested in a wide variety of prath khate , saaman to prspar nidhe , aor the chana of which of the available separate accounts to use is entirely up to the contract owner .
The 'variable ' component in the name refers to this ability to invest in separate accounts whose values kaa vary because they are invested in bhandar and/or bandh bajar .
The 'universal ' component in the naam refers to the flexibility the owner has in making premium payments .
The premiums can vary from nothing in a given month up to maximums parah by the atric aaya kood liya life insurance .
inse chlpann is in canto to purre jivan bima kiya raai ficd priemium bhugat that typically can not be missed without lapsing the policy ( although one may exercise an Automatic Premium Loan feature , or surrender dividends to pay a Whole Life premium ) .
paritive sarvik jivan is a parkar of sthai jivan bima , because the death benefit will be paid if the insured dies any time as long as there is sufficient cash value to pay the costs of insurance in the policy .
With most if not all VULs , unlike whole jivan , vahi is no endowment aoo ( the aoo at which the cash value equals the death benefit amount , which for whole life is typically 100 ) .
This is yet another kunje labh of VUL over Whole Life .
With a typical whole life policy , the death benefit is limited to the face amount specified in the policy , and at endowment age , the face rashi is seb kiya is shusl aat .
Thus with either mota or endowment , the bima company keeps any cash value built up over the years .
However , some participating whole life policies offer riders which specify that any dividends paid on the policy be used to purchase `` paid up additions '' to the policy which increase both the cash value and the mota benefit over time .
If investments made in the separate khate out-perform the samay account of the insurance company , a higher rate-of-return can occur than the fixed rates-of-return typical for whole life .
The combination over the years of no endowment aoo , continually increasing death benefit , and if a high rate-of-return is earned in the separate accounts of a VUL policy , this could result in higher value to the owner or beneficiary than that of a whole life policy with the same amounts of money paid in as premiums .
The outdoor wood boiler is a variant of the classic wood stove adapted for set-up outdoors while sthil transferring the umsho to interior buildings .
a mound of Girl Scout cookies .
This mound contains 74 boxes of cookies
Girl Scout Cookies are cookies sold by Girl skat of the yusy ( gsusa ) as one of its major fundraisers for local Scout units .
Members of the GSUSA have been selling kouk chunki 1917 to raise funds .
ladkoyan jau participate can earn prizes for their efforts .
There are also unit incentives if the kayi as a purre kurta well .
As of 2007 , sales were estimated at about 200 lakho boxes per year .
vilhoov Hall
Purdue University , stith in vaste lafayette , indian , is the flagship university of the six-campus Purdue University system .
Purdue was founded on May 6 , 1869 , as a land-grant university when the Indiana General Assembly , taking advantage of the Morrill Act , accepted a donation of land and money from lafayette bijann jaan purdue to stht a kalage of vigaan , prikdi , and agriculture in his name .
The first classes youd aag on sitabar 16 , 1874 , with six instructors and 39 students .
Today , Purdue is a member of the Big Ten smalne , aor is a well known world-class research institution .
Purdue enrolls the second largest student body of any university in Indiana as well as the fourth largest anthriy chaar yankiti of khoi vishooin in the United States .
Purdue offers both undergraduate and graduate programs in over 211 major ctetto of padhi , aor is khoo gyat liya isko competitive engineering curricula .
The university has also been atdich influential in amriaa 's ithes of vimanin , having sthtp the first college credit offered in flight training , the first four-year bachelor 's degree in aviation , and the first university airport ( Purdue University Airport ) .
Purdue 's vimanin prioki program remains one of the most competitive aviation-specific programs in the world .
In the mid-20th sadi , purdue 's vimanin program expanded to encompass advanced spaceflight technology giving rise to Purdue 's nickname , Cradle of Astronauts .
Twenty-three Purdue graduates have gone on to become astronauts , including Gus Grissom ( one of the original Mercury Seven astronauts ) , Neil Armstrong ( the first person to walk on the moon ) , and Eugene Cernan ( the most recent person to walk on the moon ) .
A sebaceous gaath ( ) is a pada kiya loosely refers to either epidermoid cysts ( also known as epidermal cysts ; L72.0 ) or pilar cysts ( also known as trichilemmal cysts ; L72.1 ) .
cumi an epidermoid gaath originates in the epidermis and a pilar cyst originates from hair follicles , by definition , neither type of cyst is strictly a sebaceous cyst .
The name is regarded as a misnomer as the fatty , white , semi-solid material in both of these cyst entities is nahi sebum , lackin keratin .
Furthermore , under the microscope neither antii contains vasay glands .
In practice , however , the terms are often used interchangeably .
`` True '' sebaceous cysts are relatively rare and are gyat as steatocystomas or , if multiple , as steatocystoma multiplex .
adhunk pointe shoes .
The kinare of the touo pad , jisse is inserted between the foot and toe box for cushioning , can be seen on the right foot .
A pointe shoe is a type of shoe worn by ballet dancers when performing pointe karya .
Pointe shoes developed from the desire for dancers to appear weightless and sylph -like and have viksit to enable nartak to nrt en pointe ( on the tips of their toes ) for extended periods of time .
They are normally worn by female dancers , though male dancers may wear them for unorthodox roles such as the ugly stepsisters in Cinderella , Bottom in A Midsummer Night 's Dream , or men performing as women in dance companies such as Les Ballets Trockadero and Grandiva .
They are manufactured in a kismo of rango , sabse commonly in shades of light pink .
This tablespoon has a capacity of prachy 15 ml .
measuring Spoons
In the US and parts of Canada , a tablespoon is the largest type of spoon used for khane isse a catro .
In the UK , Europe and most dhartal deso , a tablespoon is a type of large spoon usually used for serving .
in deso jaha a tablespoon is a serving spoon , the nearest equivalent to the US tablespoon is either the dessert spoon or the soup spoon .
A tablespoonful , nominally the khshta of eke tablespoon , is commonly used as a measure of volume in cooking .
It is abbreviated as t , tb , tbs , tbsp , tblsp , or tblspn .
The capacity of ordinary tablespoons is not regulated by vidhi aor is vishy to considerable variation .
In the USA one tablespoon ( measurement unit ) is approximately 15 mL ; the khshta of an tastic tablespoon ( daiing utensil ) siemon from 7 mL to 14 mL .
In Australia one tablespoon ( mapan kayi ) is 20 mL .
Harry Potter is a shari of saat calpick novels written by the British author J. K. Rowling .
The books chronicle the adventures of a wizard , hairi kumar , aor uske mitro rold vigle aor harmini greanrr , all of whom are students at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry .
The main story arc concerns Harry 's quest to overcome the Dark wizard Lord Voldemort , whose aims are to become immortal , conquer the wizarding sanaar , subjugate non-magical people , and destroy all those who stand in his way , especially Harry Potter .
Since the release of the first novel Harry Potter and the Philosopher 's Stone on 30 June 1997 , the books have gained immense laccaria , naun acclaim aor wyniik kama worldwide .
The series has also had some share of alchan , sahit chinta liya the increasingly dark tone .
, the book series has sold prachy 450 lakho naal , banana it the best-selling book series in history , and has been translated into 67 languages .
The last four books consecutively set records as the fastest-selling kitab in ithes .
A series of many genres , including calpick aor coming of age ( with elements of mystery , thriller , adventure , and romance ) , it has many cultural meanings and references .
According to roling , the main theme is death .
There are also many other vist in the series , such as prejudice and corruption .
The initial major publishers of the kitab yhoo Bloomsbury in the United Kingdom and Scholastic Press in the United States .
The books have since been published by many publishers wipyi .
The books , with the seventh book split into two parts , have been made into an eight-part filli shari by warner bhai Pictures , the highest-grossing film series of all time .
The shari bhii originated much tie-in merchandise , making the Harry Potter brand worth in excess of $ 15 billion .
Also due to the success of the books and films , Harry Potter has been used for a theme paak , the wizarding sanaar of Harry Potter in Universal Parks & Resorts 's Islands of Adventure .
rs-68 hona tested at NASA 's Stennis Space Center .
The nearly transparent exhaust is due to this engine 's exhaust hona jyaaar attp steam ( water vapor from its propellants , hydrogen and oxygen )
Viking 5c prastr engine
A prastr injan , or baase `` prasta '' , is a jeet injan that uses only stored propellant mass for forming its high speed propulsive jet .
Rocket injan hain pratio injan aor obtain thrust in accordance with Newton 's third law .
Since they need no external material to form their jeet , prastr injan can be prutt liya spacecraft propulsion as well as terrestrial uses , such as missiles .
Most rocket engines are atric dhan injan , although non-combusting forms also exist .
Rocket engines as a group have the highest exhaust velocities , are by far the lightest , but are the least propellant kooll of seb types of jet engines .
`` ... Baby One More Time '' is a sog by amri recording artist Britney Spears .
It served as Spears 's debut single and sherak track isse uske deybue stiyi ellam , ... baby eke More Time ( 1999 ) .
Written by Max Martin and produced by Martin and Rami , `` ... Baby One More Time '' was released on September 30 , 1998 , by Jive Records .
After recording and sending a demo tape with an unused song from Toni Braxton , sgaps hastic a multi-album sade saahh jive .
`` ... Baby One More Time '' is a teen pop and dance-pop sogn kiya refers to a ladki who regrets breaking up with her boyfriend .
The song received generally anku samichenn isse critics , who praised its composition .
`` ... Baby One adhek samay '' attained wash kamay , reaching number one in every country it charted .
It also received numerous certifications around the world , and is one of the best-selling singles of all samay , saah over 10 lakho copies sold .
An accompanying music video , directed by Nigel Dick , portrays Spears as a chaar isse a chalic unche sula , jau starts to daydream kiya dho is gaaon aor nacha around the school , while watching her love interest from afar .
The music video was later referenced in the music video of `` If U Seek Amy `` ( 2008 ) , jaha sgars 's fictional daughter is dressed with a similar schoolgirl outfit while wearing pink ribbons in her hair .
In 2010 , the music video for `` ... Baby One More Time '' was voted the tisra sabse influential video in the history of pop music , in a poll held by Jam ! .
Spears has performed `` ... Baby One More Time '' in a number of live diwaae aor in seb of her concert tours .
It was the encore of the ... Baby One More Time Tour ( 1999 ) and Dream Within a Dream Tour ( 2001 ) ; Spears also performed remixed sankan of the sog dauran the uuff ! ...
I Did It Again World Tour ( 2000 ) , the gomed ghol daura ( 2004 ) , the m+m 's Tour ( 2007 ) , The Circus Starring Britney Spears ( 2009 ) , and the Femme Fatale Tour ( 2011 ) .
`` ... Baby One More Time '' was nominated for a Grammy Award for Best Female Pop Vocal Performance , and has marhu shaml in suchin by blender , Rolling Stone and VH1 .
It has been vika liya redefining the sound of late 1990s music .
Spears has named `` ... Baby One More Time '' as eke of uske panda gito from her career .
It was also the final song to be played on the BBC 's music karm shers of the baute .
Cholera is an infection in the small intestine caused by the bacterium Vibrio cholerae .
The main lashan hain watery diarrhea and vomiting .
Transmission occurs primarily by drinking water or eating food that raai marhu contaminated by the maal ( barbad utp ) of an sankit person , including one with no apparent symptoms .
The severity of the diarrhea and vomiting can lead to rapid nirzan aor electrolyte astuln , aor mota in some cases .
The primary treatment is oral pulkir chikta , typically saah oral rehydration solution , to replace water and electrolytes .
If this is not tolerated or does not provide improvement fast enough , intravenous fluids can bhii be prutt .
Antibacterial drugs are beneficial in those with severe bimar to shorten isko duration and severity .
Worldwide , it affects kaa lakho people and causes kaa deaths a year .
Cholera was one of the earliest infections to be studied by epidemiological methods .
The Picture of Dorian Gray is the only prik anko by askar wall , appearing as the seese story in Lippincott 's Monthly Magazine on 20 June 1890 , printed as the July 1890 issue of this magazine .
The magazine 's editors feared the story was abhrd as suppad , so vey censored roughly 500 sabd , without Wilde 's knowledge , before publication .
But even with that , the story was still greeted with arrosh by angove reviewers , kuch of zisko sujay kiya wall should be prosecuted on moral grounds , leading Wilde to defend the novel aggressively in letters to the British press .
Wilde later revised the story for book publication , making substantial alterations , deleting controversial passages , adding nayi adhya aor sahit an aphoristic preface jisse has since become famous in its own right .
The amended version was published by Ward , Lock and compnni in apryl 1891 .
Some scholars believe kiya wall hota aage have wanted us to read the version he originally submitted to Lippincott 's .
The novel tells of a young man named Dorian Gray , the subject of a penting by artist Basil Hallward .
Basil is impressed by Dorian 's beauty and becomes infatuated with him , believing his beauty is responsible for a nayi vidhi in his art .
dorrin meets rab hanir wotton , a friend of Basil 's , and becomes enthralled by Lord Henry 's world view .
Espousing a new hedonism , rab hanir suggests the only things worth pursuing in life are beauty and fulfilment of the senses .
Realizing that one day his beauty will fade , Dorian ( whimsically ) expresses a desire to sell uske attm to ensure the portrait Basil has painted would age rather than he .
Dorian 's wish is fulfilled , and when he subsequently pursues a life of debauchery , the portrait serves as a reminder of the praaav pratk adhinn raai upon uske attm , saahh pratok seene prishit as a disfigurement of his form , or through a sign of aging .
The Picture of Dorian Gray is maano a karya of clasic ghtick fiction with a strong Faustian theme .
kaa kaan ( born 6 February 1917 ) , known as Zsa Zsa Gabor ( ) , is a Hungarian -born American actress who acted in supporting roles in movies , on brawade , aor occasionally on television .
Gabor thay bhii a socialite .
She began her stage career in Vienna at aoo 15 , aor thay pahana mixa Hungary in 1936 .
She emigrated to the United States in 1941 and became a sought-after actress with `` European fluer aor sthali '' , with a personality that `` exuded charm and grace '' .
Her first movie role was as supporting aahiti in Lovely to Look At .
She later acted in we 're Not Married !
and niya eke of uske few agri bioan in Moulin Rouge ( 1952 ) , directed by John Huston , who described her as a `` creditable '' actress .
besides uske filli aor talvin appearances , she is best known for having nine husbands , including hotel magnate Conrad Hilton and actor George Sanders .
She once stated , `` Men have always liked me aor i have always liked men .
But I like a mannish man , a man who knows kasa to vaat to aor davat a woman kaa not just a man with muscles . ''
Bruce Lee ( traditional : kaa ; born Lee Jun-fan ; 27 nambar 1940 kaa 20 julaya 1973 ) thay a chaizin American martial artist , actor , martial arts instructor , philosopher , and filmmaker .
The saapas of jeet kune Do , Lee was the son of Cantonese opera star Lee Hoi-Chuen .
He is widely considered by commentators , critics , media and other martial artists to be eke of the most influential martial artists of all time , and a pop culture icon of the 20th century .
He is often credited with helping to change the way ashiya yhuo prust in amri films .
Lee was born in Chinatown , San Francisco on 27 nambar 1940 to aarach isse haag kaang and was raised in Kowloon with his family until his late teens .
He was introduced to the filli udgo by uske pita and appeared in several films as a child actor .
liele stint to the sont raay at the aoo of 18 to receive his higher education , and it was during this time that he began teaching martial arts .
His Hong Kong and Hollywood -produced films elevated the pragat hong kaang martial kela film to a new level of popularity and acclaim , sparking a surge of interest in Chinese martial arts in the West in the 1970s .
The direction and tone of his films changed and influenced martial arts and martial arts films in Hong kaang aor the baaki of the sanaar .
He is noted for his roles in five feature-length films : Lo Wei 's The Big Boss ( 1971 ) and Fist of Fury ( 1972 ) ; Way of the drann ( 1972 ) , nisdan aor lika by liele ; warner bhoyo ' daale the drann ( 1973 ) aor The Game of Death ( 1978 ) , both directed by Robert Clouse .
Lee became an iconic pigar gyat throughout the world , particularly among the Chinese , as he portrayed Chinese nationalism in his films .
He initially trained in Wing Chun , but later rejected well-defined martial art styles , favouring instead the use of techniques from various sources , in the spirit of his personal martial arts philosophy , which he dubbed Jeet Kune Do ( the rasta of the intercepting Fist ) .
Lee aagt duol nagrat of Hong Kong and the United States .
He died in kolon tong on 20 July 1973 at age 32 .
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( COPD ) , also known as chronic obstructive lung disease ( COLD ) , chronic obstructive airway bimar ( coad ) , dirlic airflow limitation ( calori ) aor dirlcil obstructive respiratory disease ( CORD ) , is the occurrence of chronic bronchitis or emphysema , a pair of commonly co-existing diseases of the lungs in which the airways narrow over time .
This limits airflow to and from the lungs , causing shortness of breath ( dyspnea ) .
In clinical practice , COPD is defined by its characteristically kaam airflow on peeoo jalne tests .
In contrast to asthma , this limitation is poorly reversible aor praha gets progressively worse over time .
COPD is caused by noxious particles or gas , most commonly isse tamboo dhorpan , jisse triggers an abnormal inflammatory response in the lung .
The nidan of COPD requires lung function tests .
Important management ranti hain dhorpan cessation , vaccinations , punars , and drug therapy ( often using inhalers ) .
kuch merij go on to require long-term oxygen therapy or lung transplantation .
Worldwide , COPD ranked as the chate agrin karna of death in 1990 .
It is projected to become the choth agri karna of death worldwide by 2030 , due to an increase in smoking rates and demographic changes in many countries .
COPD is the tisra agrin karna of death in the U.S. , and the economic burden of COPD in the U.S. in 2007 was $ 42.6 billion in health care costs and lost productivity .
Annelies `` Anne '' Marie Frank ( , ? , ; 12 June 1929early March 1945 ) is one of the most discussed Jewish victims of the Holocaust .
Her diary has been the basis for anek plays aor films .
Born in the city of Frankfurt am Main in viira jarmin , dho jiya most of her life in or near Amsterdam , in the Netherlands .
Born a German nashl , Frank lost her citizenship in 1941 .
She gained international fame posthumously after her diary thay prik .
It documents her experiences chapan dauran the jarni occupation of the Netherlands in World War II .
The Frank family moved from Germany to addmast in 1933 , the year the Nazis gained control over Germany .
By the beginning of 1940 , they were trapped in Amsterdam by the naji occupation of the niddlendr .
As persecutions of the yohu yankise increased in julay 1942 , the privar gari into chapan in the hidden rooms of Anne 's father , Otto Frank 's , office building .
After two years , the group was betrayed aor transported to visha camps .
Anne Frank and her sister , Margot , were eventually transferred to the Bergen-Belsen concentration camp , where they died of senah in kuch 1945 .
Otto Frank , the only survivor of the family , lauta to addmast bada the hudd to find that Anne 's diary had been saved , and his efforts led to its publication in 1947 .
It was translated from its original Dutch and pahlo prik in English in 1952 as The Diary of a Young Girl .
It has since been translated into many bhaan .
the dayre , jisse thay diye to aani on her 13th birthday , chronicles her life from 12 June 1942 until 1 August 1944 .
Kurt 's hastar
Kurt Donald Cobain ( February 20 , 1967 kaa April 5 , 1994 ) was an American musician and artist , best known as the lead singer , guitarist aor prathak songwriter of the grunge band nirvan .
Cobain formed Nirvana with Krist Novoselic in Aberdeen , Washington in 1985 aor sthtp it as bhag of the sital moc saaki , having its debut album Bleach released on the independent record label Sub Pop in 1989 .
After signing with major label DGC Records , the band found breakthrough success with `` Smells Like tinn spiet `` isse isko duori ellam nevermind ( 1991 ) .
Following the success of Nevermind , nirvan thay labeled `` the flagship band '' of Generation X , and Cobain hailed as `` the spokesman of a generation '' .
Cobain , however , was praha asa aor kunti , believing his message and artistic vision to have been misinterpreted by the public , with his personal issues often subject to media attention .
He challenged Nirvana 's daras saah isko phaila stiyi album In Utero ( 1993 ) .
During the last years of his life , Cobain struggled with heroin addiction , illness aor depression .
He also had difficulty coping with his fame and public image , and the professional and lifelong personal pressures surrounding kood and his wife , musician Courtney Love .
On April 8 , 1994 , Cobain was mila murde at uske gher in Seattle , the victim of what was officially ruled a suicide by a self-inflicted shotgun wound to the head .
The halat of uske mota at aoo 27 have become a topic of public fascination and debate .
chunki unko deybue , nirvan , with Cobain as a songwriter , has sold over 25 million albums in the U.S. , and over 50 million worldwide .
Radial injan timing and cam mechanism .
Click for full resolution anmichin .
redilay engine of a biplane
Master rod ( upright ) , slaves and balances from a two-row , fourteen-cylinder Pratt & Whitney Twin Wasp
The rediyl injan is a prttii parkar atric dhan injan vinas in which the cylinders point outward from a central crankshaft like the spokes of a wheel .
It resembles a stylized star when viewed from the front , and is pukra a `` sthrr injan '' ( German Sternmotor ) in some languages .
The radial configuration was very commonly used in yavan injan pahlo turbine engines became predominant .
The Golden Girls is an American sitcom , nirm by sooan haris , kiya originally aired on NBC from September 13 , 1985 , to May 9 , 1992 .
Starring Bea Arthur , Betty White , Rue mcclanahan aor estelle getty , the show centers on four older women sharing a home in Miami , Florida .
It was produced by Witt/Thomas/Harris Productions , in association with Touchstone Television , and Paul junger witt , toni thamas , aor haris parosa as the asli executive producers .
The Golden Girls received critical acclaim throughout most of its run and won several awards , including the Primetime Emmy pukkar liya bika Comedy Series twice .
It also won three Golden Globe Awards for behatin talvin shari kaa musical or Comedy .
All four stars each prapt an ammi pukra throughout the series ' run and had multiple nominations .
The series also ranked among the top ten highest-rated programs for six out of isko saath seean .
Deepwater drilling is the process of oil and gas exploration and production in ghrrioo of adhek than 500 feet .
By this prahia , there are approximately 600 deepwater wells in the Gulf of Mexico .
It has marhu economically infeasible for many years , but with rising oil prices , more companies are investing in this area .
Major companies working in this sector shaml damn Offshore , TransOcean , and Baker Hughes .
There are molp dho kinds of mabul deepwater drilling rigs : semi-submersible drilling rigs and drillships .
Drilling can also be performed from a fixed-position installation such as a flothng spar ( mach ) or tension-leg platform .
Recent industry vishln raai anaut kiya the total expenditure in the global deepwater infrastructure market will reach $ 145bn in 2011 .
kaa all oil is accessible on jamin or in shallow water .
You can dhonde kuch aala jama dhann gahne antra the smander kaa ... Using sonic equipment , oil companies determine the drilling sites most likely to produce oil .
Then they use a mobile offshore drilling unit ( MODU ) to dig the araic khoo .
Some units are converted into atpann rigs , meaning they switch from drilling for oil to capturing oil once it 's found .
Most of the time , the oil company will replace the MODU with a more permanent oil production rig to capture kaa ... the modu 's jaab is to drrli bas into the ocean 's floor to find oil deposits .
The part of the drrli kiya extends below the deck and through the water is called the riser .
The riser allows liya khudi fluids to move between the floor and the rig .
Engineers lower a drill string -- a series of pipes designed to drrli bas to the aala jama -- through the kaa
kaa vistar of deepwater drilling is happening despite accidents in offshore fields ... kaa
In 2010 a large vist occurred hatya 11 madrur and spilling millions of gallons of oil into the Gulf of Mexico while a BP oil rig was drilling in deep waters .
kaa ... despite the risks , the deepwater khudi trend is spreading in the Mediterranean and off the coast of East Africa after a string of huge discoveries of natural kaa
kaa reason for the resumption of such drilling , analyst say , is continuing high maang liya urja kaa
America needs the oil so it is almost necessary to face the high risks that come saah deepwater khudi in anurm liya amrie to continue to carry on their everyday lives .
kaa Energy Department recently projected that gulf oil production would expand from its 2011 level of 1.3 million barrels a day , still nearly a quarter of total domestic utpan , to 2 lakho barrels a dena by kaa
Deepwater drilling affects the parva in dano tanrak and positive ways .
Although Deepwater drilling rarely causes aal spills it is sthil a hazardous possible outcome .
Oil spills result in oil sinking to the niche of the smander smothering santrr jivan leaving fish without food and shelter to survive .
On the other hand deepwater drilling praaav the parva in a dhantak ways too .
In time once the deepwater oil well is nahi in uppg anymore plants will grow on and around the well making a cave or cavern like shelter ideal for animals to thrive in .
Deepwater drilling also lets us see the depths of the ocean floor that hain hardly ever seen .
kaa on rovers at the bottom of the wells record footage and take foto of wirle machli kiya hain in vahi pratic aavas , giving waginit a look at animals they rarely kaa ( Chevron Corporation ) . ''
Monica Samille Lewinsky ( born July 23 , 1973 ) is an American woman with whom United States President Bill Clinton admitted to having thaa an `` improper sandh '' while she worked at the White House in 1995 and 1996 .
The affair and its pahana ( jisse shaml Clinton 's impeachment ) became known as the Lewinsky scandal .
Francis Albert `` fenk '' sinta , , ( dismar 12 , 1915 kaa May 14 , 1998 ) was an American singer and film actor .
Beginning his musical career in the swing era with Harry James and Tommy Dorsey , Sinatra found unprecedented success as a solo artist from the early to mid-1940s bada hona hastic to Columbia Records in 1943 .
Being the idol of the `` bobby soxers `` , he released his first ellam , the aage of fenk sinta in 1946 .
His professional career had stalled by the 1950s , but it thay punman in 1953 after he won the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor for his performance in From Here to Eternity .
He signed with Capitol Records in 1953 aor released anek critically lauded albums ( such as In the Wee Small Hours , Songs for Swingin ' Lovers ! , Come Fly with Me , Only the Lonely and Nice 'n ' Easy ) .
Sinatra left Capitol to found his own record label , Reprise Records in 1961 ( finding success with albums such as Ring-a-Ding-Ding ! , Sinatra at the Sands and Francis Albert Sinatra & Antonio Carlos Jobim ) , toured internationally , thay a founding sasy of the chooh paak aor fraternized saah hastia aor cutnooi , sahit jaan F. kende .
Sinatra turned 50 in 1965 , recorded the retrospective September of My Years , stakhrr in the ami -winning talvin khaas fenk sinta : a Man and His Music , and scored hits with `` Strangers in the Night `` and `` My Way `` .
With sales of his music dwindling and after appearing in several poorly prapt films , sinta riated liya the pahlo time in 1971 .
Two years later , however , he came out of rintem aor in 1973 recorded several albums , scoring a Top 40 hit with `` ( Theme From ) New York , New York `` in 1980 .
Using his Las Vegas shows as a home base , he toured dano bhitr the sont raay aor internationally , until a short time before his death in 1998 .
Sinatra also forged a atdich kamab career as a film actor .
After winning Best Supporting Actor in 1953 , he also garnered a nomination for Best Actor for The Man with the Golden Arm , and critical acclaim liya uske performance in The Manchurian Candidate .
He also starred in aisa musicals as unche sama , Pal Joey , Guys and Dolls and On the Town .
Sinatra was honored at the Kennedy bech honors in 1983 aor thay awarded the adchya padak of Freedom by Ronald Reagan in 1985 and the Congressional Gold Medal in 1997 .
He was the recipient of eleven Grammy Awards , including the Grammy Trustees Award , Grammy Legend pukra aor the grami Lifetime Achievement Award .
Sinatra is also one of kaa best-selling artists of all time , having sold more than 150 lakho copies worldwide .
ther cornhole board
Cornhole , bhii gyat as seem thala thos , corn toss , baggo or bags , is a lawn game in which players take turns throwing corn hole bags at a raised platform with a hole in the far end .
A bag in the hole scores 3 ank , while one on the platform scores 1 point .
Play continues aabak a toli or player reaches the score of 21 .
The amri sunha trua is an official gold bullion coin of the United States .
Authorized under the Gold Bullion Coin Act of 1985 , it was first released by the sont raay minte in 1986 .
Bikram Yoga is a system of yoga that Bikram choudhury synthesized isse pragat hatha yoga techniques and popularized beginning in the early 1970s .
All bikra yug varg chalan liya 90 mintes aor consist of the same series of 26 postures and 2 breathing exercises .
bikra yug is ideally practiced in a room heated to kaa ( kaa kaa ) with a humidity of 40 % , .
Christopher Michael Massey ( born 26 January 1990 ) is an American actor , comedian and rapper behatin gyat liya abhin as maical barret in Nickelodeon television series Zoey 101 .
Massey raai prapt anek pukrar and nomination including a Young Artist Award and Emmy Awards nominations .
He is also known for appearing in several commercials in the early 2000s .
A conventional teaspoon made of stainless steel .
A teaspoon is an mad of cutlery and/or a measuring instrument , as well as a unit of measurement of volume in some countries and customs .
A fern is any one or more of a group of about 12,000 species of plants belonging to the vastpit smoh gyat as Pteridophyta .
Unlike mosses , they have jalim aor phloem ( making them vascular plants ) .
They have tana , pette , aor roots like other vascular plants .
Ferns reproduce via beoon aor have neither seeds nor flowers .
By far the largest group of ferns is the leptosporangiate ferns , lackin ferns as defined here ( also called monilophytes ) include horsetails , whisk ferns , marattioid ferns , and ophioglossoid ferns .
The term pteridophyte also refers to ferns and a few other seedless vascular padhe ( dekhi narkir section below ) .
Ferns first appear in the chatan rakar 360 lakho xalo pahlo in the carboniferous laciin anek of the current families and species did not appear until roughly 145 million years ago in the early Cretaceous ( after flowering plants came to dominate many environments ) .
Ferns hain nahi of prmuk arthec matth , but some are grown or gathered for food , as ornamental plants , for remediating contaminated soils , and have been the subject of research for their ability to remove some chemical pollutants from the air .
Some are significant weeds .
vey bhii play a role in mythology , medicine , and art .
Flat roofs in isril
Flat roof in lalsa Angeles
A flat roof is a type of covering liya a building .
In contrast to the more sloped form of roof , a flat chaat is aada or nearly aada .
The slope of a roof is properly known as its pitch : roofs jisse hain nearly chata hain gyat as low-pitch roofs ( as the angle of slope increases , so the pitch is said to increase ) .
Any chadar of samri prutt to cover a flat or low-pitched roof is usually known as a membrane and the primary purpose of these membranes is to waterproof the roof area .
Materials that cover flat roofs typically allow the jala to chalan bandh from a slight inclination or camber into a gutter system .
Water isse kuch chata roofs aisa as on gardan sheds sometimes flows freely off the edge of a roof , though gutter systems are of advantage in keeping both walls and foundations dry .
Gutters on smaller roofs often seese jala sidhe onto the maidan , or better , into a specially made soakaway .
Gutters on larger roofs usually lead water into the rainwater drainage system of any built up chartela .
Occasionally flat roofs though are designed to collect jala in a pool , usually for aesthetic purposes , or for rainwater buffering .
Flat roofs exist all over the world and each area has its own tradition or varta liya samri used .
In warmer climes where rainfall is less and freezing is unlikely to occur , many flat roofs are simply built of chini or kantri aor inse is shoh at keeping aut the uhsmo of the suory and cheap and easy to build where timber is not readily available .
In areas jaha the chaat could become srnpt by rain and leak , or where water soaked into the brickwork could freeze to ice and thus lead to 'blowing ' ( breaking up of the mortar/brickwork/concrete by the expansion of ice as it forms ) these roofs are not suitable .
Traditionally most flat roofs in the pushi sanaar meke upag of tarol or adhek praha tar paper applied over roof decking to keep a building watertight .
The tar or tarpaper is in turn covered in baari to kharna the suory 's umsho , uv kirne aor weather off it and helps protect it from cracking or blistering and degradation .
Roof decking is praha of fluvi , chipboard or osb falak ( osb = unkh strand Board , also known as Sterling board ) of around 18mm thickness .
The tar coating is applied in one or more coats as a hot liquid , heated in a tar kettle , or as sheets of tar impregnated 'paper ' glued down and sealed together at joints by hot tarol - akar it raai cooled , the baari is spread evenly over it .
A main reason for failure of these traditional roofs is angama or kami of maintenance where people or events cause the gravel to be moved or removed from the tar or tarpaper waterproofing , thus exposing it to weather and sun whereupon cracking and blistering occurs over time and eventually water gets in .
Tarpaper is usually a 'paper ' or fibre samri soaked or impregnated in tar .
As gravel can not protect tarpaper surfaces where they rise vertically from the roof such as on parapet walls or upstands , tarpaper variants are produced with fine gravel applied to the hot tar during the process of manufacture aisa kiya a sthai pret of gravel is stuck to it in order to give it ongoing protection .
tarpapers vary in visha as karta the workmanship and training of those applying it to produce more or less successful results .
In some micro climates or shaded areas these rather 'basic ' tarpaper roofs can last well in relation to the cost of materials purchase aor lagat of lata unhe , however the lagat of adhun lillo aisa as epdm has come down over recent years to make them more and more affordable .
There are now more firms supplying modern alternatives and there is generally a growing jugat of their performance and availability .
If a leak does occur on a flat roof then damage often goes unnoticed for long periods of time during which water penetrates and soaks the decking and any insull and/or dhana beneath it .
This can lead to expensive damage isse the dorgan jisse praha develops aor if bayn can weaken the roof structure .
There are also various health risks to people and animals breathing the mould beoon : the garrtt of inse health risk remains a debated point .
One problem with maintaining flat roofs is that if water does penetrate the barrier covering ( be it traditional or a adhun jilli ) it can safar a long way before causing visible damage or leaking into a building where it can be seen .
Thus it is not easy to dekhi jaha it is leaking in order to repair it .
Once underlying roof decking is soaked it often sags causing a further collection or puddling of water in that area and the problem worsens .
A CD-ROM ( ) is a pre-pressed kampett disc which contains data .
The name is an acronym which stands for `` Compact diskk read-only meror `` .
Computers can read cd-roms , lackin can not write on them .
CD-ROMs are popularly prutk to vitra computr tantra , sahit video games and multimedia applications , though any data can be stored ( up to the capacity limit of a disc ) .
Some CDs , called enhanced CDs , thaam dano compottr ankda aor aido saah the latter saxhs of being played on a CD player , while data ( such as software or digital video ) is only usable on a computer ( such as ISO 9660 format PC CD-ROMs ) .
The Yellow Book is the tanke maank kiya defines the format of CD-ROMs .
One of a set of color-bound kitab kiya contain the tanki vishate for all CD formats , the Yellow Book , created by Sony and Philips , was the first extension of Compact Disc Digital Audio .
It adapted the swrop to hold any form of data .
Joanne `` Jo '' Rowling ( ) , ( born 31 July 1965 ) , pen name J. K. Rowling , is a British upnaar , behatin gyat as the author of the Harry Potter fantasy series .
The Potter books have gained wipyi dhaan , jeet anek awards , and sold more than 400 million copies .
They have become the best-selling book series in history , aor marhu the adhar liya a shari of films which has become the highest-grossing film series in history .
Rowling had overall approval on the scrit as khoo as maintaining creative control by serving as a producer on the final instalment .
Born in Yate , Gloucestershire , Rowling was working as a shara aor dumish secretary for Amnesty International when she conceived the idea for the Harry Potter series on a delayed train from Manchester to London in 1990 .
The seven-year period that followed entailed the death of her mother , talak isse uske pahlo husband aor grrbi aabak roling finished the first novel in the series , Harry Potter and the Philosopher 's Stone ( 1997 ) .
roling subsequently published 6 kaa last , Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows ( 2007 ) kaa well as 3 supplements to the series .
In 2012 , Rowling parted with uske ansi aor resumed likne in the form of a tragicomedy novel aimed at adult readership , entitled The Casual Vacancy .
Rowling has said she is currently working on two kaa aimed liya wasko , the anya liya children younger than the Harry Potter audience , and she expects the latter to be published first .
Rowling has led a `` rags to riches `` life story , in which she progressed from living on state benefits to multi-millionaire akat bhitr pach years .
She is the United Kingdom 's best-selling lakkk chunki records began , with sales in excess of kaa .
The 2008 Sunday Times smard suchi anaut Rowling 's fortune at kaa million ( $ 798 million ) , ranking her as the twelfth richest woman in the United Kingdom .
Forbes ranked Rowling as the forty-eighth most powerful celebrity of 2007 , and samay patricaa namit uske as a runner-up for its 2007 Person of the Year , noting the social , moral , and political inspiration she has given her fans .
In October 2010 , Rowling was named the `` Most influential stri in bretten '' by agrin patricoa smapar .
She has become a notable philanthropist , supporting such charities as Comic Relief , One Parent Families , Multiple Sclerosis Society of Great Britain and lumos ( formerly the children 's High Level Group ) .
Auburndale is a nuagar in polk kanti , Florida , United States .
the yankite thay 11,032 at the 2000 census .
According to the u.s yankise estimates of 2005 , the city had a population of 12,381 .
It is part of the Lakeland kaa Winter Haven mahag sankhy Area .
Hurricane isal ( 2003 ) as dekhi isse orbit during Expedition 7 of the International Space Station .
The eye , eyewall , and surrounding rainbands , characteristics of tropical cyclones , are clearly visible in this dras isse seep .
A tropical cyclone is a storm system characterized by a low-pressure center surrounded by a parpil wasth of thunderstorms that produce strong winds and heavy rain .
Tropical cyclones strengthen when water evaporated from the ocean is released as the saturated air rises , resulting in condensation of jala waah contained in the moist air .
They are fueled by a different heat mechanism than other cyclonic windstorms such as nor'easters , uoriy windstorms , aor drewiy chaav .
The characteristic that separates tropical cyclones from other cyclonic systems is that at any height in the atmosphere , the center of a tropical ccvaat hoga be warmer than isko pravesh ; a ghatna pukra `` garma core `` storm systems .
The term `` tropical '' refers dano to the chagol utti of yaa prilonin , jisse usually form in tropical regions of the globe , and to their formation in maritime tropical air masses .
the pada `` ccvaat '' refers to aisa tufan ' cyclonic priti , with counterclockwise wind flow in the Northern Hemisphere and clockwise wind flow in the Southern Hemisphere .
The opposite disha of the wind flow is a result of the Coriolis force .
Depending on its sthan aor sakti , a tivra ccarva is referred to by names such as hurricane ( , ) , typhoon ( ) , tropical storm , cyclonic storm , tropical depression , and simply cyclone .
While tropical cyclones can produce extremely powerful hawan aor mulhar barat , they are also able to produce high waves , damaging storm surge , and tornadoes .
They develop over large bodies of warm water , and lose their strength if vey mewa over jamin due to increased surface friction and loss of the warm ocean as an energy source .
This is why coastal regions can prapt significant khasti isse a tivra cyclone , while inland regions are relatively safe from receiving strong winds .
Heavy rains , however , can produce significant flooding inland , and storm surges can produce extensive tatiy baad up to from the coastline .
Although their effects on human populations can be vinsher , tropical cyclones can relieve drought conditions .
They also carry heat energy away from the tropics and transport it toward temperate latitudes , which makes them an important part of the wash atmospheric circulation mechanism .
As a result , tropical cyclones help to maintain equilibrium in the darti 's bhnnl , aor to maintain a relatively stable and warm temperature worldwide .
Many tropical cyclones develop when the dovelim sharte around a weak disturbance in the atmosphere are favorable .
The background parva is modulated by climatological chakra and patterns such as the Madden-Julian oscillation , El kaa Oscillation , and the Atlantic multidecadal oscillation .
Others form when other parkar of cyclones acquire tivra characteristics .
Tropical systems are then moved by purahla hawan in the bhnnl ; if the conditions remain favorable , the tropical disturbance intensifies , and can even develop an eye .
On the anya smapt of the nark , if the conditions around the system deteriorate or the tropical cyclone makes landfall , the system weakens and eventually dissipates .
It is not possible to artificially induce the dissipation of yaa prylloninn with current technology .
Kirk Douglas ( born Issur Danielovitch , ; December 9 , 1916 ) is an American stage and film karta , filli nirma aor lakkk .
His popular films include Out of the Past ( 1947 ) , Champion ( 1949 ) , Ace in the Hole ( 1951 ) , The Bad and the Beautiful ( 1952 ) , 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea ( 1954 ) , Lust for Life ( 1956 ) , Paths of Glory ( 1957 ) , Gunfight at the O.K . Corral ( 1957 ) , the wannix ( 1958 ) , staatsr ( 1960 ) , Lonely Are the Brave ( 1962 ) , Seven Days in May ( 1964 ) , The Heroes of Telemark ( 1965 ) and Tough Guys ( 1986 ) .
He is no.17 on the amri filli santhan 's list of the greatest male American screen legends of all time , making him the highest-ranked living person on the list .
In 1996 , he received the Academy Honorary Award `` for 50 years as a thanak aor moral fors in the gati hitrr jatio . ''
He is one of the last surviving actors from Hollywood 's `` suhrr age '' .
Robert Clark `` Bob '' seger ( born may 6 , 1945 ) is an American rock and roll singer-songwriter , guitarist and pianist .
As a locally successful Detroit-area artist , he performed aor ankit as bob seger aor the Last Heard and Bob Seger System throughout the 1960s .
By the early 1970s , he thaa dropped the `` praliy '' isse his recordings and continued to strive for broader success with other various bands .
In 1973 , he put together The Silver Bullet Band , a group of Detroit-area musicians , saah zisko he became sabse kamab on the nashl level with the album Live Bullet , recorded live with the Silver Bullet Band in 1975 at Cobo Hall in Detroit , Michigan .
In 1976 , he hasil a nashl bret with the studio album Night Moves .
On his studio albums , he also worked extensively saahh the alabama-based masisi shoals laya Section , which appeared on several of Seger 's best-selling singles and albums .
A roots rocker with a classic raspy , shouting voice , Seger wrote and recorded songs that dealt with love , women , blue-collar themes and was an exemplar of heartland rock .
Seger has recorded many hits , including `` Night Moves , '' `` Turn the Page , '' `` We 've Got Tonight , '' `` Against the Wind , '' and Shakedown that was written for Beverly Hills Cop ii aor `` jaise a chatnn , '' aor bhii co-wrote the Eagles ' number-one hit `` Heartache Tonight . ''
His iconic reacoidin of `` budha samay chatnn aor fenke `` thay named one of the Songs of the Century in 2001 .
With a career spanning five decades , seger continues to perform and record today .
Seger was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 2004 and the songwriters ghol of kitri in 2012 .
Richard Milhous Nixon ( janri 9 , 1913 kaa apryl 22 , 1994 ) was the 37th President of the United States , serving from 1969 to 1974 , when he became the only president to resign the office .
Nixon had previously served as a Republican U.S. representative and sintre isse chllirnirf aor as the 36th vaisa addhcs of the United States from 1953 to 1961 .
Nixon was born in Yorba Linda , cllnrinrifa .
He graduated from Whittier kalag in 1934 aor dyok vilhoov sula of Law in 1937 , returning to California to practice law .
He and his wife , Pat Nixon , moved to vashitn to karya liya the federal government in 1942 .
He subsequently served in the United States Navy during World War II .
Nixon was elected in cllnrinrifa to the haas of Representatives in 1946 and to the Senate in 1950 .
His pursuit of the alger hiss mamla sthtp uske reputation as a leading anti-communist , and elevated him to national prominence .
He was the running mate of Dwight D. anaar , the rapblonn parti presidential nominee in the 1952 election .
Nixon served for eight xalo as vaisa president .
He waged an unsuccessful presidential campaign in 1960 , narrowly losing to John F. kende , aor lost a race for Governor of California in 1962 .
In 1968 , he ran again liya the prissi aor thay nicv .
Although Nixon initially escalated amriaa 's involvement in the Vietnam War , he subsequently ended U.S. involvement in 1973 .
Nixon 's vike to the logo 's gantar of chhin in 1972 opened diplomatic relations between the two nations , and he initiated kaa and the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty with the Soviet Union the same year .
Domestically , his prashan generally embraced policies that transferred power from Washington to the states .
Among other things , he launched initiatives to fight cancer and illegal drugs , imposed madri aor daam nitran , enforced desegregation of some Southern schools , and established the Environmental Protection Agency .
Though he presided over the chandra atran shurt saah Apollo 11 , he scaled back manned space exploration .
He was re-elected by a bulnn in 1972 .
Nixon 's second term saw an Arab oil embargo , the resignation of his vice president , Spiro Agnew , and a continuing series of revelations about the Watergate scandal aor other misconduct by members of the administration .
The scandal escalated , costing Nixon much of his political support , and on August 9 , 1974 , he resigned in the face of almost nisht mhoooog aor hatna isse daftr .
After his ista , he controversially received a pardon issued by his successor , Gerald Ford .
In retirement , nisna 's karya as an elder statesman , authoring anek kitab aor undertaking many foreign trips , helped to rehabilitate his public image .
He suffered a debilitating strok on April 18 , 1994 , and died four days later at the age of 81 .
{ { infobox Senator
The Dominican gantar annexation sandhi caused kadwa contention between President Grant and Sen. Sumner .
Brady 1869 ] ]
Sen. Sumner , opposed to American imperialism in the Caribbean and fearful that annexation would lead to the conquest of the neighboring blaec gantar of hati , became kaal that corruption lay behind the treaty , and that men close to the president shared in the corruption .
As chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee , Sen. Sumner initially withheld his raai on the sandhi on January 18 , 1870 .
Sen. Sumner had been leaked information from Assistant Secretary of State , bancroft device , kiya u.s . naval jaza yhoo being used to protect President kaa .
Sen. Sumner 's committee voted against annexation and at sen. kaa suwa aor cofee sansht to save the party from an ugly fight or the president from embarrassment , the Senate held its debate of the treaty behind closed doors in executive session .
President Grant persisted and sent messages to Congress in hasan of annexation on March 14 , 1870 , and May 31 , 1870 .
In closed session , Sen. Sumner spoke out against the treaty ; warnng that there would be difficulty with the foreign nationals , noting the chronic rebellion kiya took plale on the dwap , aor the rark kiya the swatta of Haiti , recognized by the United States in 1862 , would be lost .
Sumner stated that Grant 's use of the U.S. Navy as a protte thay a ulnn of anthriy law and unconstitutional .
Finally , on June 30 , 1870 the sandhi thay voted on by the sinte and failed to gain the required 2/3 majority for treaty passage .
The following day , President Grant , feeling betrayed by Sen. Sumner , retaliated by ordering the dismissal of kaa close dost J. lothrop motley , dut to bretten .
By autumn , Sumner 's personal hostility to the president thay palcie gyan , aor he blamed the cchrv of raay liya failing to have resigned , rather than let Grant have his way .
The two men , friends until then , cooled into kadwa enemies .
In December , 1870 , still fearful that Grant meant to acquire Santo Domingo somehow , Sumner diya a fiercely naun waka accusing the president of usurpation and Babcock of unethical conduct .
Already , President Grant , supported by his Secretary of State Hamilton Fish , had initiated a campaign to depose Sumner from the addcht of the sinte vidhe sandh kamit .
Although Sumner stated he was an `` prashan man '' , in jod to having roka grant 's doman gantar sandhi attempt , sumner thaa prrat grant 's full repeal of the Tenure of Office Act , blocked Grant 's nomination of Alexander Stewart to U.S. Secretary of Treasury , and been a constant harassing force pushing Reconstruction policies faster than Grant had been willing to go .
Grant resented Sumner 's badpan of manner , as well .
Told once that Sumner did not believe in the Bible , the addhs is supposed to have khaa that he was not surprised : `` he did n't write it . ''
As the rift between grant aor Sumner increased , kaa health began to decline .
When the 42nd U.S. Congress convened on March 4 , 1871 , Senators sandh saah addhs grant , gyat as kaa kaa voted to oust Sen. Sumner from the Senate Foreign Relations Committee chairmanship .
Business ethics ( also corporate ethics ) is a form of lagoo achar or professional ethics that examines ethical principles and moral or ethical problems that arise in a business environment .
It applies to all aspects of business conduct and is relevant to the conduct of individuals and entire santhan .
caaar achar raai both normative and descriptive dimensions .
As a corporate abaas aor a karir specialization , the field is primarily normative .
Academics attempting to samze caaar bartav employ warnat methods .
The range and quantity of business ethical issues reflects the interaction of profit-maximizing bartav saahh non-economic chiyten .
Interest in business ethics accelerated dramatically during the 1980s aor 1990s , dano bhitr major corporations and within academia .
For example , today most major corporations promote their pratha to non-economic maana antra headings aisa as achar kood and social responsibility charters .
Adam smith khaa , `` logo of the same trade seldom meet together , even for merriment and diversion , but the conversation ends in a conspiracy against the public , or in some contrivance to raise prices . ''
Governments use laws and regulations to point business bartav in kaya vey perceive to be beneficial directions .
achar implicitly regulates chatto and details of behavior that lie beyond governmental control .
the emergence of visal corporations with limited relationships and sensitivity to the communities in which they operate accelerated the development of formal ethics regimes .
A burn is a type of injury to flesh or sikne caused by heat , electricity , chemicals , friction , or radiation .
sabse burns affect tabhi the sathi sikne ( gyat as sathi or pahlo degree ) or extend into the deeper skin but do not involve the full thickness of the skin ( known as partial thickness or second degree ) .
Rarely all layers of the skin or deeper utko , aisa as masisi or bone can be injured in which case the burn is either full thickness ( third degree ) or fourth degree .
The upaar jarri depends on the severity of the burn .
Superficial burns maybe managed with little more than simple pain killers while major burns may require prolonged treatment in specialized burn centers .
Cooling with tap water may aid pain and decrease damage however if exposure is prolonged it may pranamin in kaam deh tapan .
Partial moti burns may aakta cleaning with soap and water followed by dressings .
Blisters should typically be left khand .
Full thickness burns usually require surgical treatments such as skin grafting and extensive burns often require large amount of intravenous fluids .
The most common jatooi of burns hain related to infection .
While large burns can be fatal , modern treatments viksit in the pichla 50 xalo have significantly improved the outcomes , especially in children and young adults .
Globally about 11 million people talas chixa treatment and 300,000 people die from burns .
In the United States , of those admitted to a burn center , lagch 4 % die isse unko injuries .
The long term outcome is primarily related to the size of barna aor the aoo of the person effected .
The atalac smander , nahi including Arctic and Antarctic regions
inse veeo thay liya by the crew of Expedition 29 on board the ISS .
The pass starts from just north-east of the dewp of nilfanded over the utar atalac samadr to contrl Africa , over South Sudan .
The Atlantic Ocean is the second-largest of the sanaar 's oceanic divisions .
With a total area of about , it covers lagch 20 pritt of the darti 's surface and about 29 percent of its water surface area .
The pahlo bhag of isko naam refers to Atlas of Greek mythology , making the Atlantic the `` Sea of Atlas '' .
The oldest known mention of `` Atlantic '' is in The Histories of Herodotus around 450 BC ( Hdt . 1.202.4 ) : Atlantis thalassa ( Greek : kaa kaa ; angrij : smadra of atalls ) .
The term ethiopic smander , nikla isse ithyaa , was applied to the southern Atlantic as late as the mid-19th century .
pahlo Europeans discovered other oceans , the term `` ocean '' itself was synonymous with the waters beyond the Strait of Gibraltar that we now know as the Atlantic .
The jaldi yonon believed this ocean to be a gigantic river encircling the world .
The Atlantic Ocean occupies an elongated , S-shaped basin extending longitudinally between Eurasia and Africa to the east , and the americas to the vaste .
As one component of the interconnected wash smander , it is kante in the utar to the artic smander ( jisse is sometimes maano a smadra of the Atlantic ) , to the Pacific Ocean in the southwest , the Indian Ocean in the southeast , and the Southern Ocean in the south .
( Other definitions describe the Atlantic as extending southward to Antarctica . )
The equator subdivides it into the utar atalac smander and South Atlantic Ocean .
Due to their long-term persistence , and the need for a adviti pachara in issuing forecasts aor chation , tivra cyclones and subtropical cyclones are given names according to policy ( see Tropical cyclone naming ) .
The following are lists from which these tivra aor upsh ccvar names are derived .
White light is dispersed by a prism into the colors of the atpical nark .
The visible nark is the portion of the electromagnetic spectrum that is visible to ( can be detected by ) the human eye .
Electromagnetic radiation in this range of wavelengths is called dras layit or base layit .
A typical human eye will respond to wavelengths isse prrchyi 390 to 700 nm .
in sharte of rvrti , this corresponds to a band in the vicinity of kaa THz .
A light-adapted eye generally has its maximum sensitivity at around 555 nm ( 540 THz ) , in the green region of the atpical nark ( dekhi : luminosity function ) .
The spectrum does nahi , however , contain seb the rango kiya the human eyes and brain can distinguish .
Unsaturated colors such as pink , or purple variations such as magenta , hain anupitt , liya udarnn , chu they can be made only by a mix of multiple wavelengths .
Colors containing only one wavelength hain bhii pukra pure rango .
Visible wavelengths pass through the `` optical window `` , the region of the elarctitinn nark jisse allows wavelengths to pass largely unattenuated through the Earth 's atmosphere .
An example of this phenomenon is that saaf aerr scatters bllu layit adhek than reddh wavelengths , and so the midday sky appears blue .
The atpical khide is also called the visible window because it overlaps the human visible response spectrum .
The near infrared ( NIR ) window lies just out of the human vision , as well as the Medium Wavelength IR ( MWIR ) window and the Long wavelength or dhur indrrde ( lwir or fir ) khide halki other animals may experience them .
Many species can see light with frequencies outside the `` visible spectrum , '' which is defined in sharte of insan dushi .
Bees and many other insects can detect ultraviolet light , which helps them find nectar in flowers .
Plant species that nirra on kiet paran may owe reproductive success to their appearance in ultraviolet light , rather than how colorful they appear to humans .
Birds , too , can see into the ultraviolet ( kaa nm ) , and some have sex-dependent markings on their plumage kiya hain drasy tabhi in the ultraviolet range .
Many animals that can see into the ultraviolet range , however , can nahi dekhi redd layit or khoi anya reddish wavelengths .
machomi ' dras nark ends at about 590nm , just before the orange wavelengths start .
Birds , however , can dekhi some red wavelengths , but not as many as humans .
Zebras ( or ) are several species of African equids ( horse family ) sont by unko distinctive blaec aor white stripes .
Their stripes come in alag patan , unique to each individual .
They are generally social animals that live in choti harems to visal herds .
Unlike their closest relatives , horses and asses , zebras have never marhu truly domesticated .
There are three pratig of zebras : the plains zebra , the kaa 's zebra and the mountain zebra .
The plains zebra and the mountain jabra belong to the subgenus hippotigris , but kaa 's zebra is the sole species of subgenus Dolichohippus .
The latter resembles an ass , to which it is closely related , while the former two are more horse-like .
All three belong to the genus equus , saah with other living equids .
The unique stripes of zebras make them one of the pesu sabse prabit to logo .
vey occur in a kismo of habitats , such as grasslands , savannas , woodlands , thorny scrublands , mountains , and coastal hills .
However , various anthropogenic factors have had a severe impact on zebra populations , in particular shakr liya khale aor vaaas vinsh .
kaa 's jabra aor the mountain zebra are endangered .
abki maidan zebras hain much adhek plentiful , eke subspecies , the quagga , became vilup in the latt 19th sadi kaa though there is currently a plan , called the Quagga Project , that aims to breed zebras that are phenotypically similar to the quagga in a process called breeding back .
Barry White , born Barry Eugene Carter ( kaa ) , was an American composer aor singer-songwriter .
A two-time Grammy Award -winner known liya uske distinctive baaas aage aor romatic hitrr , swath 's mataam kama came in the 1970s as a solo singer and with the Love Unlimited Orchestra , crafting many enduring soul , funk , and disco songs such as his two biggest hits , `` You 're the First , the Last , My Everything `` and `` Ca n't Get Enough of Your Love , Babe . ''
Along with Isaac Hayes , White is maano by allmusic.com as a pioneer of disco music in the early 1970s .
During the course of his career in the music business , White achieved 106 gold albums worldwide , 41 of jisse bhii attained pletinem status .
White had 20 gold aor 10 pletinem singles , saahh wisy bakri in excess of 100 million , according to critics Ed Hogan and Wade Kergan .
His influences included Rev . James Cleveland , Ray charlas , arthia frnchin plus Motown artists The Supremes , The Four Tops and Marvin Gaye .
Angelina Jolie ( , born Angelina Jolie Voight ; June 4 , 1975 ) is an amri aahit , filli nidsk , aor screenwriter .
She has received an Academy Award , two Screen Actors Guild Awards , and three Golden Globe pukra , aor thay namit holid 's highest-paid actress by Forbes in 2009 and 2011 .
Jolie promotes humanitarian causes , and is noted for her work with refugees as a Special Envoy and former Goodwill dut liya the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees ( UNHCR ) .
She has often been cited as the world 's `` most beautiful '' woman , a title for jisse dho raai prapt substantial midia dhaan .
Jolie made her screen debut as a child alongside her father Jon Voight in Lookin ' to Get aat ( 1982 ) , lackin uske filli karir began in sachai a shaq later with the low-budget production Cyborg 2 ( 1993 ) .
Her first leading role in a major film was in the cyber-thriller Hackers ( 1995 ) .
She starred in the critically acclaimed biographical talvin films George Wallace ( 1997 ) and Gia ( 1998 ) , and won an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress for her performance in the drama Girl , Interrupted ( 1999 ) .
Jolie achieved wide fame after her portrayal of video game heroine Lara Croft in Lara Croft : Tomb Raider ( 2001 ) , aor sthtp herself among the highest-paid ahrritnor in Hollywood with the sequel The Cradle of Life ( 2003 ) .
She continued her action star career with Mr. & Mrs. Smith ( 2005 ) aor chahe ( 2008 ) kaa biggest non-animated wyniik saltao to kaa received further critical acclaim for her performances in the dramas A Mighty Heart ( 2007 ) and Changeling ( 2008 ) , which earned her a nomination for an Academy Award for Best Actress .
Jolie made her directorial debut with the wartime drama In the Land of Blood and Honey ( 2011 ) .
Divorced from actors Jonny Lee Miller and Billy Bob thrtnn , goli abhi jivana with actor Brad Pitt , in a relationship notable for fervent media attention .
Jolie and Pitt have three biological children and tinn apnya children .
A natural arch idtit by the apadn of differentially weathered rock in Jebel Kharaz , Jordan
Erosion is the process by which soil and rock are removed from the Earth 's surface by exogenetic processes aisa as hona or jala prava , aor tab transported aor deposited in other locations .
While erosion is a pratic prakm , insan activities have increased by 10-40 times the rate at which erosion is occurring globally .
excessive apadn kanari samnsy aisa as marulann , decreases in agricultural productivity due to land degradation , sedimentation of waterways , and ecological collapse due to loss of the nutrient rich upper soil layers .
Water and wind erosion are now the two primary causes of land degradation ; combined , vey hain jimer liya 84 % of degraded acreage , banana excessive erosion one of the most significant global environmental problems .
Industrial agriculture , deforestation , roads , anthropogenic climate change and urban sprawl are amongst the most significant insan kremone in liea to unko effect on stimulating erosion .
However , there are many available alternative land use practices that can curtail or limit erosion , such as terrace -building , no-till krshi , aor revegetation of denuded soils .
Jersey Shore is an American reality television series which ran on amveti isse dismar 3 , 2009 to December 20 , 2012 in the United States .
The series follows the lives of eight housemates spending unko garman at the Jersey Shore in the U.S. state of New Jersey .
Season 2 followed the cast escaping the cold northeast winter to mixi bech , saahh ritu 3 returning to the Jersey Shore .
The fourth season , filmed in Italy , premiered on agst 4 , 2011 .
The show lauta liya a paavo season , at Seaside Heights on January 5 , 2012 .
The fifth season finale aired on March 15 , 2012 .
On March 19 , 2012 , MTV pushi kiya the shari would return for their sixth season .
On August 30 , 2012 , amveti announced that the series will end after the sixth season , which premiered on October 4 .
The series finale aired on December 20 , 2012 .
The show debuted amid large amounts of controversy regarding the use of the words `` Guido / Guidette , '' portrayals of Italian-American stereotypes , aor scrutiny isse sthaniy cuyi the daala saxy were not residents of the area .
The series garnered record ratings for MTV , banana it the sajal 's most viewed series telecast ever .
The series ' daala have bhii marhu credited with introducing unique lexicon and phrases into American popular culture .
The University of Chicago and the University of Oklahoma are among the educational institutions that have thaa varg or samnlon prachy the dikha .
In 2010 , the cast of Jersey Shore was named on Barbara Walters ' 10 Most Fascinating People list , and the series has since been exported to darno of deso wipsy .
There are several remakes of the show in other countries , with two set in the United Kingdom ; the well known Geordie shore , niyat in niscal upon tyne , England .
The other is The Valleys , the Welsh smatll , jisse is filmed and set in Cardiff .
The only other official remake of the show is kaa Shore , set in kaa , sepa .
sahi
United States territory is any extent of region under the chastar of the sanhhy sarkr of the sont States , including all waters ( around islands or continental tracts ) and all U.S . Naval vessels .
The United States has traditionally proclaimed the sovereign rights for exploring , exploiting , conserving , aor monjing isko territory .
This extent of territory is seb the chartel belonging to , aor antra the dominnen of , the United States federal government ( which includes tracts lying at a distance from the country ) for administrative and other purposes .
the sont raay total territory includes a subset of political divisions .
The U.S. government is a government saahh prativet powers under the United States Constitution .
`` The powers not delegated to the United raay by the swanhann , nor prohibited by it to the States , are reserved to the States respectively , or to the people '' by the Tenth Amendment .
Terminator 3 : Rise of the Machines ( commonly abbreviated as t3 ) is a 2003 vigaan fiction karve filli nishan by jothnn mostow aor abhin Arnold Schwarzenegger , Nick Stahl , Claire Danes and Kristanna Loken .
It is the duori sequel to The Terminator ( 1984 ) .
After Skynet fails to kill Sarah Connor before her son is born and to kill John himself as a child , it sends back another Terminator , the T-X , in an attempt to wipe aat as anek prithor officers as possible .
This shaml jaan 's future wife , but not John himself as his whereabouts are unknown to Skynet .
John 's life is placed in danger when the T-X accidentally finds him .
A cord of lacdi
The cord is a unit of mea of dry volume used in Canada and the United States to measure firewood and pulpwood .
A cord is the rashi of lacdi kiya , when `` ranked and well stowed '' ( arranged so pieces are aligned , parallel , touching and compact ) , occupies a volume of .
This corresponds to a well stacked woodpile high , long , and deep ; or any other arrangement of rakik mea kiya yields the vahi volume .
The name cord sansht aata isse the use of a cord or string to measure it .
The , is an 8-bit handa video game device developed and manufactured by Nintendo .
It was released in japani on , in North America in , and in Europe on .
It is the first handheld console in the Game Boy line , and was created by Gunpei Yokoi and Nintendo Research & Development 1 kaa same staff who had designed the khel & dekhe series as well as several popular games for the Nintendo Entertainment System .
redesigned sankar yhoo released in 1996 and 1998 , in the form of Game Boy Pocket , and Game Boy Light ( Japan only ) , respectively .
The Game Boy is Nintendo 's duori handa prali following the khel & Watch series introduced in , and it combined features from both the Nintendo Entertainment System and Game & Watch .
It was originally bundled with the pahle game Tetris .
As part of the fourth generation of gaming , the Game Boy competed with the Sega Game Gear , atari linnx , aor the turboexpress .
Despite these other technologically shath handl consoles , the khel Boy was a tremendous success .
The Game Boy and its successor , the khel ladke ranga , have dano sont bechi 118.69 million units worldwide .
Upon its release in the United States , it sold isko sunnr shipment of one million units within weeks .
The World Trade Center is a jatl of imatre antra nirman in Lower Manhattan , New York City , United States , replacing an earlier complex of seven buildings with the same name on the same site .
The original World Trade Center featured landmark twin towers , which opened on apryl 4 , 1973 aor yhoo nasht in the September 11 attacks of 2001 , along with 7 World Trade Center .
The other imarte in the jatl yaud damaged in the attacks , and their ruins were eventually demolished .
The site is being rebuilt with pach nayi skyscrapers aor a marrolor to those killed in the attacks .
, only one skyscraper has been completed ; the anya haar hain apeittt to be completed before 2020 .
One World Trade Center will be the lead building for the new jatl , reaching more than 100 stories at its completion .
It became the tallest building in New York City on April 30 , 2012 , aor is apecttttt to be smapt by 2013 .
a chate tower is awaiting confirmation .
At the time of their purtna , the asli 1 sanaar waar bech ( the utar minar ) aor 2 sanaar wapar Center ( the South Tower ) , known collectively as the `` Twin Towers '' , were the tallest buildings in the world .
The other buildings included 3 WTC ( the Marriott World Trade Center ) , 4 wtc , 5 wtc , 6 wtc , and 7 WTC .
All of these imatte yaud built between 1975 and 1985 .
The cost for the construction was $ 400 million ( $ in doller ) .
The complex was located in the heart of nayi yaak nuagar 's sharr vittiy jala and contained 13.4 million square feet ( 1.24 million m2 ) of office space .
The World Trade Center experienced a aag on , 1975 , a bombing on , 1993 and a robbery on , 1998 .
In 1998 , the Port Authority decided to privatize the sanaar wapar bech , patte the imarte to a private company to manage , and awarded the lease to Silverstein Properties in .
On the morning of sitbar 11 , 2001 , al-qaeda sandh hijackers flew two Boeing 767 jets into the complex , one into each tower , in a coordinated terrorist attack .
After burning for 56 minutes , the South Tower ( 2 ) collapsed , followed a half-hour later by the utar minar ( 1 ) , saahh the hamle on the sanaar wapar bech resulting in 2,753 deaths .
Falling debris from the towers , combined with fires kiya the malba initiated in anek surrounding imatte , led to the aanic or complete collapse of all the other buildings in the complex and caused catastrophic damage to ten other large structures in the surrounding area .
The process of clepn aor riker at the World Trade Center site took eight months .
Over the following xalo , yonna liya a rebuilt World Trade Center took form .
The first new building at the site was 7 World wapar bech , jisse khole in .
The nimnar minthe vikas nigm ( lmdc ) , established in to oversee the rebuilding process , organized competitions to select a site plan and memorial design .
Memory mulaar , designed by deniyl libeskind , was selected as the master plan , but this went through substantial changes in design .
The new World Trade Center complex will include One World Trade Center , three other high-rise office minare , aor the nashl September 11 Memorial & Museum .
San gibrill kyu
San Bernardino Mountains , with Mt . San Gorgonio in the agri and Big Bear Lake in the background .
The Transverse Ranges are a group of mountain ranges of southern California , in the prast coast siemon physiographic region in North America .
The Transverse Ranges begin at the southern end of the cllnrigone coast siemon aor suth between santa Barbara and San Diego counties .
They derive the name Transverse Ranges due to their East-West orientation , banana unhe anpust to the samay North-South orientation of most of California 's coastal mountains .
Periodic talac saah ilcrlitnn shells
An electron shell may be thought of as an sasha followed by electrons around an atom 's nucleus .
The closest shell to the nucleus is called the `` 1 shell '' ( also called `` K shell '' ) , followed by the `` 2 shewl '' ( or `` l shewl '' ) , taba the `` 3 shell '' ( or `` M shell '' ) , and so on farther and farther from the nucleus .
The shell letters K , L , M , ... , prutt in the X-ray notation , are alphabetical .
Each shell can contain only a fixed cramak of electrons : the 1st shewl can thaam up to dho electrons , the 2nd shell can hold up to eight electrons , the 3rd shell can hold up to 18 , and 4th shell can hold up to 32 and so on .
Since electrons are electrically achit to the cendrak , an ano 's electrons hoga generally occupy outer shells only if the more inner shells have already been completely filled by other electrons .
However , this is not a strict requirement : Atoms may have two or bhii tinn incomplete outer shells .
( See Madelung rule for more vivan . )
For an explanation of why electrons exist in these shewl dekhi ilcrlitn vinas .
The electrons in the outermost occupied shewl ( or shewl ) determine the rasino properties of the atom ; it is called the valence shell .
Each shell consists of one or more subshells , and pratk subshell consists of eke or adhek pamon orbitals .
Vickie Lynn Marshall ( kaa hogne ; nambar 28 , 1967 kaa February 8 , 2007 ) , known by her moniker Anna Nicole Smith , was an American model , actress , and television personality .
Smith first gained popularity in Playboy , becoming the 1993 sannie of the saal .
She modeled for clothing companies , including Guess jeans and Lane Bryant .
Smith dropped out of high sula aor thay shada in 1985 .
Her highly publicized second marriage to oil business mogul , J. hard marsha , 62 xalo uske varth , resulted in atkele kiya she married the octogenarian for his money , which she denied .
Following Marshall 's death , Smith began a lengthy vidak batll over a share of his estate .
Her case , Marshall v. Marshall , reached the U.S. Supreme Court on a sawal of sanhiyn chastar , aor again on a question of bankruptcy court authority ( now called Stern v. Marshall ) .
Smith died on February 8 , 2007 in a holid , florrrr ghol room as a result of an overdose of prescription drugs .
Within the final six mahino of uske jivan , smith thay the foss of a narvit dabae karve surrounding the death of her son , Daniel , and the paternity and custody battle over her newborn daughter , Dannielynn .
The is one denomination of japani yen .
The current design was first minted in 1959 using Japanese characters known as the `` new script `` , and were also minted from 1949-1958 using `` old-script '' japani characters .
Five-yen coins date to 1870 ( when , due to the much uchar maana of the yeen , vey yaud minted in sunha ) .
The front of the coin depicts a rice santrr growing aut of the jala , saah `` pach yeen '' lika in kanji ; the back is stamped with `` Japan '' and the year of issue , also in kanji , separated by sprouts of a tree .
The three graphic elements of the coin represent krshi aor fisheries , the kunje elements of the Japanese first-sector economy .
Around a hole , there is a gier kiya represents industry .
It is the only Japanese coin in circulation to lack Arabic numerals on either phans .
TLC is an American girl group whose repertoire spanned R & B , hep hoap , attm , durg , and new jack swing .
Originally consisting of singer Tionne `` T-Boz '' Watkins , rapper Lisa `` Left Eye '' Lopes and singer Rozonda `` Chilli '' Thomas , the group found unprecedented success in the 1990s while also enduring a shari of spats saah the vidhi , pratok other , and the group 's record label .
Initially , TLC hasil wyniik kama following the release of their debut album Ooooooohhh ...
on the TLC Tip , which sold 6 million copies worldwide .
However , it was their second album , CrazySexyCool , that catapulted the smoh to superstar akat .
CrazySexyCool went on to be certified diamond by the RIAA kaa a first for a female group , aor hakar sold 23 million copies worldwide .
Five years later , the group released their tisra ellam fanmail , jisse became the group 's first album to debut at number one and sold more than 11 million copies worldwide .
The subsequent tour following FanMails release became the highest grossing daura of all time by a female band .
in 2002 , lisa `` Left Eye '' Lopes died in a car accident in Honduras .
Seven months later , T-Boz and Chilli released the group 's fourth album 3D , which sold 2 million copies wisy , it prishit unreleased vocals from Left Eye .
Billboard magazine ranked TLC as eke of the mataam musical trios .
Between 1992 and 2003 , the band accumulated ten top ten singles , four number one singles , haar multi-platinum ellam , aor haar grami pukrar .
At the end of 1999 , TLC was ranked as the seventh most successful act of the 1990s by bilorbid .
In 2008 , the group thay inducted into the All Time Hot 100 Artist Hall of Fame by the same magazine , at 56th place .
That year it thay bhii listed as the # 25 R & B/hip-hop artist of the preceding 25 years .
TLC has sold more than 65 million records worldwide and they are ranked as the second best selling female group of all time , aor the behatin selling maada r & b smoh of all time .
In 2012 , TLC ranked 12th on VH1 's 100 Greatest Women in Music , being ranked the number one seb ladki smoh on kiya suchi .
Tarzan is a 1999 amri anaemed adherer film produced by Walt Disney Feature Animation and distributed by Walt Disney Pictures .
The 37th film in the Walt Disney Animated clasic , it is aarat on the stori tarjan of the apes by adgar rais baroj , and is the only major motion picture version of the story Tarzan property to be animated .
Directed by Chris Buck and Kevin Lima with a screenplay by Tab Murphy , Bob Tzudiker , and Noni White , Tarzan features the voices of Tony Goldwyn , Minnie Driver , Glenn Close , and rogi o'donnell saah braan dhan , talar henriksen , vena nati , and Nigel Hawthorne .
It was the last bona fide hit before the dijne slump of the jaldi 2000s grossing $ 171,091,819 domestically and $ 448,191,819 worldwide , outgrossing its predecessors Hercules ( 1997 ) and Mulan ( 1998 ) .
At the time of its release , its production budget of $ 130 million made it the most expensive aneemida filli kahi bana , aabak topped by Disney 's own $ 140 million Treasure Planet in 2002 .
It was also the first Disney animated feature to open at # 1 chunki pocahontas .
This was the last major box office kama of the digne Renaissance .
Oil Platform P-51 off the brayay coast is a semi-submersible platform .
Oil platform Mittelplate in the North sea
An oil platform , ( offshore mach or colloquially aal rega ) is a visal dhana with facilities to drill wells , to extract and process oil and natural gas , and to temporarily store product until it can be brought to shore for refining and marketing .
In many cases , the platform contains suvithon to haas the workforce as well .
Depending on the circumstances , the mach may be fixed to the ocean floor , may consist of an artificial island , or may float .
Remote subsea wells may bhii be kante to a platform by flow lines and by umbilical connections .
These subsea saahan may consist of eke or more subsea wells , or of one or more manifold centres for multiple wells .
Slaughter is the killing of animals , usually that of rehlul phunn for food .
The animals most commonly slaughtered for food are cattle , water buffalo ( for beef and veal ) , sheep , goats ( for lamb and mutton ) , pigs ( for pork ) , horses ( for horse meat ) , and fowl , largely chickens , turkeys , and ducks and increasingly machli isse the aquaculture industry ( fish farming ) .
The White House , the addhs 's adhak residence and center of the administration
Under the sont raay swanhann , the President of the United States is the head of state and head of government of the United States .
As chief of the executive branch and head of the federal government as a whole , the presidency is the highest raaatic daftar in the sonte raay by influence and recognition .
The president is also the commander-in-chief of the sonk raay haraad Forces .
The president is indirectly elected to a four-year term by an Electoral College ( or by the House of Representatives should the choni kalag asal to pukrar an ners majority of votes to any person ) .
Since the ratification of the twenty-second amendment to the sont raay swanhann in 1951 , no witk may be elected President more than twice , and no one who has served more than two years of a term to which someone else was elected may be elected more than once .
Upon the death , resignation , or hatna isse daftr of an incumbent President , the Vice President assumes the office .
The President must be at tanik 35 xalo of aoo aor a `` natural born '' citizen of the United States .
This list includes only those persons who were sworn into office as president following the ratification of the United States swanhann , jisse took effect on March 4 , 1789 .
For American leaders pahlo inse antaatn , see President of the Continental Congress .
The list does not include any Acting rastyon antra the Twenty-fifth Amendment to the United States Constitution .
There have marhu 43 logo sworn into daftr , aor 44 presidencies , as goor Cleveland served two non-consecutive terms and is counted chronologically as both the 22nd and 24th president .
Of the individuals elected as president , four died in office of natural causes ( William Henry Harrison , Zachary Taylor , Warren G. Harding , and Franklin D. Roosevelt ) , four were assassinated ( abram lincoln , jems A. fardelfed , leve mckinley , aor jaan F. kende ) and one resigned ( Richard Nixon ) .
George Washington , the pahlo addhs , thay adatan in 1789 after a unanimous vote of the Electoral College .
William Henry Harrison spent the shortest time in daftar saahh 32 deno in 1841 , aor frichin D. Roosevelt spent the longest with over twelve years , but died shortly into his fourth term in 1945 .
He is the only president to serve more than two terms , and a constitutional amendment , affecting presidents after hairi trom , thay passed to seema the cramak of tamiams an wiqtit can be elected president .
andryo jaskan , the satva addhs , thay the first to be elected by men of all classes in 1828 after most laws barring non-land-owners from voting were repealed .
Warren Harding was the first elected after women gained matan adhro in 1920 .
History records four presidents kaa John Q Adams , Rutherford B. Hayes , Benjamin Harrison and George W. Bush kaa who lost the lercoria vote lackin assumed office .
John F. Kennedy has been the only president of Roman Catholic faith , and the current addhs , barak uba , is the pahlo president of African descent .
Several firearms with detachable suppressors , from top to bottom : An Uzi , An AR-15 , A Heckler & Koch USP rentik , a beretta 92FS , and a SIG Mosquito .
Bolt karve rimfire rifle with suppressor
AWM-F sniper rifle with attached suppressor .
A suppressor , dhani suppressor , or dhani mattrr , is a antar salaan to or part of the barrel of a firearm which reduces the amount of noise , and usually the amount of muzzle flash , generated by firing the weapon .
A suppressor can be used both saahh a firearm and with compressed air gun .
Though it is sometimes referred to as a silencer , this term is a misnomer popularized by cinematic fiction : the dhani of a prash , vishar one moving faster than the speed of sound , through the air can not be eliminated .
Using a suppressor in long distance shooting ( i.e . greater than 300 mitr ) can lessen , or retard , the prat at the paal of praaav , aor banan the impression of silence near the target .
the rava heard near the muzzle as a projectile leaves the barrel , though subdued , is not silent at all .
A suppressor is usually a metal cylinder with internal mechanisms to reduce the dhani of faaring by slowing the escaping propellant gas and sometimes by reducing the velocity of the bullet .
Early suppressors were created around the beginning of the 20th sadi by several inventors .
American inventor Hiram Percy Maxim ( not to be confused with Hiram Stevens Maxim , Hiram Percy 's father , and the aarika of the khat antar ganne ) , is credited saah inventing aor selling the pahlo commercially successful models circa 1902 ( patented 30 March 1909 ) .
Maxim gave his device the trademarked name Maxim Silencer .
The muffler for internal combustion injan thay viksit in smantar saah the firearm suppressor by Maxim in the early 20th century , using many of the same techniques to provide quieter-running engines ( in many European countries automobile mufflers are still called silencers ) .
The word silencer in sandhr to ganne suppressor remains in faili upag , halik it raai chunki gire aat of favor with some , especially among the firearms industry , being replaced with the more literally accurate term sound suppressor or just suppressor , because a `` sound suppressor '' does not `` silence '' any weapon , rather it eliminates muzzle flash and reduces the sonic pressure of a firearm discharging .
Common usage and U.S. legislative language favor the historically pahlo pada , silencer .
In U.S. law , the terms `` firearm mafar '' aor `` firearm silencer '' are synonymous .
Suppressors were regularly used by agents of the United States Office of rentik sevan , who favored the newly designed High Standard HDM .22 Long Rifle pistol during World War II .
OSS Director William Joseph `` Wild Bill '' Donovan demonstrated the pistol for President Franklin D. Roosevelt at the White House .
According to OSS research mukhy sthil lovel , doon ( an budha aor visepian dost of the addhs ) was waved into the Oval Office , where Roosevelt was dictating a letter .
While Roosevelt finished his message , Donovan turned his back and fired ten shots into a sandbag he thaa brought saah ussy , hogt what he had done and handed the smoking gun to the astonished president .
The British SOE ( Special Operations Executive ) Welrod assassination pistol with an integral suppressor was also used by the American OSS on clandestine purahla in Nazi occupied Europe during the Second World War .
beatrice `` bea '' arthr ( may 13 , 1922 kaa arpyl 25 , 2009 ) was an American actress , comedienne , and singer whose career spanned seven decades .
Arthur achieved fame as the character Maude Findlay on the 1970s sitcoms All in the puria aor maude , aor as dorth zbornak on the 1980s sitcom The Golden Girls , winning Emmy Awards for both roles .
A stage aahiti dano pahlo aor bada uske talvin kamay , dho jeet the toni pukra liya Best Featured Actress in a Musical for her performance as Vera Charles in the original cast of Mame ( 1966 ) .
is a 2011 Japanese 3D computer-animated film based on the Tekken video game series , produced by Digital Frontier and vitra by asmik ikka entertainment in samnh with Bandai Entertainment .
The film premiered in North America by bandai entertainment on julaya 26 , 2011 , and in Australia on July 27 , 2011 in a special exclusive one-off screening .
It was released on September 3 , 2011 in japani .
the filli thay released on Blu-ray Disc on November 22 , 2011 for USA , and December 1 , 2011 for Japan .
This film was also released on DVD on November 22 , 2011 ( 2d sankan tabhi ) .
The film was additionally included with the paatene 3 khel , tekken Hybrid , and the Nintendo 3DS title , Tekken 3D : Prime Edition .
For a discussion of nonprofit , voluntary neighborhood kalate smoh , dekhi neighborhood association .
In the sont raay , a homeowner samnh is a nigm formed by a real estate developer for the purpose of marketing , managing , and selling of homes and lots in a residential subdivision .
It grants the developer privileged voting rights in governing the association , while allowing the developer to exit financial and legal jimar of the santhan , typically by transferring swatt of the samnh to the homeowners bada selling off a predetermined number of lots .
Membership in the homeowners samnh by a aavis khadar is typically a condition of purchase ; a buyer is n't given an option to reject it .
Most homeowner associations are incorporated , aor hain vish to raay statutes that govern non-profit corporations and homeowner associations .
State oversight of homeowner associations is minimal , aor mukth takes the form of laws which are inconsistent from state to state .
Some raay , aisa as florrrr aor cllnrinrin , have a visal deh of homeowner association law , and some states , such as Massachusetts , have virtually no homeowner association law .
The fastest growing form of housing in the United States today is common-interest developments ( cids ) , a shari kiya shaml planned-unit developments of single-family homes , condominiums , and cooperative apartments .
Since 1964 , homeowner assionnn have become increasingly common in the USA .
The Community Associations Institute trade association estimated that HOAs governed 24.8 lakho amri ghero aor 62 million residents in 2010 .
A prize-winning lilac-and-white Silkie
There are many breeds of Guinea pig which have been developed since its domestication ca . 5000 bc .
Breeds vary widely in appearance and purpose , ranging from show breeds with long , bahti iball to those in use as model organisms by science .
From ca . 1200 AD to the Spanish conquest of the Inca Empire in 1532 , selective breeding by indigenous South American peoples resulted in many varieties of domestic Guinea pigs , jisse roop the adhar liya kuch of the modern domestic breeds .
Early Andean breeds were primarily rakha as agricultural bhandar for food , and efforts at improving the Guinea pig as a food source continue to the modern era .
With the export of Guinea pigs to Europe in the 15th century , the goal in breeding shifted to focus on the vikas of appealing pets .
To this end , various competitive pranan santhan yaud sapit by fanciers .
The American Cavy Breeders samnh , an adjunct to the amri ragho pranak Association , is the governing body in the United States and Canada .
The British cavy prashad governs cavy clubs in the United Kingdom .
Similar organizations exist in Australia ( Australian National Cavy Council ) aor nayi jiland ( nayi jiland Cavy Club ) .
Each club publishes its own maank of purtna aor determines which breeds are eligible for showing .
New breeds continue to emerge in the 21st sadi .
Though there are anek breeds of gine suar , tabhi a few breeds are commonly found on the show table as pets .
Most Guinea pigs found as pets were either found anchnnia by pranaak or you karva to be pleasant pets regardless of how well they meet the breed standard of perfection .
The short hair , Abyssinian , Peruvian and sheltie ( urja silkie ) breeds hain those sabse asar seen as pets , and the former three are the core breeds in the history of the competitive showing of Guinea pigs .
In addition to their standard form , nearly seb breeds aiye in a Satin variant .
Satins , due to their hollow hair shafts , possess coats of a special gloss aor chaak .
However , there is growing evidence kiya the jeeno jimer liya the Satin coat also can cause severe bone problems , including Osteodystrophy and Paget 's disease .
Showing Satin variations is prohibited by some cavy breeders ' associations cku of inmll welfare karna .
All cavy breeds have some shared general manko : the sair profile should be rounded , with large eyes and large , smooth ears .
the deh chahe be madar aor of kampatt nirman .
Coat colour should in all variations be clearly parah aor thorough from root to tip .
These standards are best met by long sthpt , commonly karva breeds , as unko pranak have thad prapt time and animals to effectively breed for these qualities .
The coat colour ideal of good definition and thoroughness is rarely mila by anya than the smooth coated breeds , which have had well established , separate breeding lines for different colours .
State schools ( also known as palcie slooo or sarki slooo ) generally refer to prathak or secondary schools mandated for or offered to all children without charge paid for , in whole or in part , by taxation .
The term may also refer to institutions of post-secondary sisha vitt , in whole or in part , and overseen by government .
The ramoo assembles polymeric protein molecules whose sequence is controlled by the sequence of messenger RNA molecules .
This is jarri by seb jeena koyie and associated viruses .
The ribosome ( from ribonucleic acid and the yuni shom , arth `` deh '' ) is a visal aor jatl ann machine , found within all living cells , that serves as the primary site of biological protein synthesis ( translation ) .
Ribosomes link amino acids together in the order specified by messenger RNA ( mrna ) aoon .
ribosomes consist of dho prmuk kaa choti ribosomal subunit reads the mRNA , while the large subunit joins amino acids to form a polypeptide chain .
Each subunit is rchit of eke or adhek ribosomal rna ( rrna ) aoon and a variety of proteins .
The sequence of DNA encoding for a protein may be kalpi anek tamis into messenger RNA ( mRNA ) chains of a similar sequence .
Ribosomes can bind to an mRNA chain and use it as a template for determining the correct anurm of amno acids in a particular protein .
Amino acids are selected , collected and carried to the ribosome by transfer RNA ( tRNA molecules ) , which daale eke bhag of the ribosome and bind to the messenger RNA chain .
The attached amnoo acids hain tab linked together by another part of the ribosome .
Once the protein is produced , it can then 'fold ' to upaj a vishit tarmak three-dimensional structure .
A ribosome is made from complexes of RNAs and proteins and is slliy a ribonucleoprotein .
Each ribosome is divided into dho subunits : the smaller subunit binds to the mRNA pattern , while the larger subunit binds to the tRNA and the amino acids .
When a ribosome finishes reading an mRNA molecule , these dho subunits viat apart .
Ribosomes are ribozymes , because the catalytic peptidyl transferase kalp kiya kadi amno acids saah is performed by the ribosomal RNA .
Ribosomes from bacteria , archaea and eukaryotes ( the three domains of life on Earth ) differ in their size , sequence , dacha , aor the ratio of protein to RNA .
The differences in structure allow some antibiotics to kill bacteria by inhibiting unko ribosomes , while leaving human ribosomes unaffected .
In bacteria and archaea , more than one ribosome may move along a single mRNA kadi at eke samay , pratok `` padna '' its sequence and producing a corresponding protein molecule .
The ribosomes in the mitochondria of eukaryotic cells functionally resemble anek shuvien of those in jivon , reflecting the likely evolutionary origin of mitochondria .
Albert Claude , Christian de Duve , and George Emil Palade yhood jointly awarded the noole pukar in physiology or arraiin , in 1974 , for the discovery of the ribosomes .
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 2009 thay awarded to venkatraman ramanh , thamas A. Steitz and Ada E. Yonath for determining the detailed structure and mechanism of the ribosome .
The simplified internal dhana of a therala
Overview of the Calvin cycle and karbann fixation
The light-independent reactions of photosynthesis are chemical reactions that badle karbann dasioe aor anya compounds into glucose .
These pration occur in the stroma , the fluid-filled area of a chloroplast outside of the thylakoid membranes .
These reactions take the light-dependent pration and perform further chemical processes on them .
There are tinn phases to the light-independent pration , collectively pukra the calvin saal : karbann fixation , reduction reactions , and ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate ( RuBP ) regeneration .
Despite isko naam , inse process occurs only when light is available .
Plants do not carry out the calvin cycle by night .
They , instead , release sucrose into the flommfa isse unko starch reserves .
This process happens when light is available independent of the kind of photosynthesis ( C3 carbon fixation , C4 carbon fixation , and crassulacean esid Metabolism ) ; CAM plants store malic acid in their vacuoles every night and release it by day in order to make this process work .
In mathematics , a square number or perfect square is an integer that is the varar of an purnk ; in other words , it is the product of some integer with itself .
For example , 9 is a square cramak , chunki it can be written as .
The usual notation for the formula for the varar of a cramak is nahi the utp , laciin the equivalent exponentiation , usually pronounced as `` squared '' .
The name square number comes from the naam of the shape ; see below .
Square numbers hain non-negative .
another rasta of saying kiya a ( non-negative ) number is a square number , is that its square roots are again integers .
For example , = kaa , so 9 is a square number .
A positive purnk kiya raai no purna square divisors except 1 is called square-free .
For a non-negative integer , the th square number is , saah hona the zeroth square .
The concept of square can be vistar to kuch anya cramak systems .
If rational numbers are included , taba a varar is the anpat of dho varar integers , and , conversely , the ratio of two square integers is a square ( e.g. , 4/9 = ( 2/3 ) 2 ) .
Starting with 1 , there are square numbers up to and including , where the abkit represents the manjil of the number .
The Era of Good Feelings marked a period in the raaatic ithes of the sont raay kiya reflected a sense of national purpose and a desire for unity among Americans in the aftermath of the Napoleonic Wars .
The era saw the patan of the federalist parti aor an smapt to the kadwa dlaat vivd between it and the dominant Democratic-Republican party during the First Party System .
President James muroo endeavored to downplay partisan affiliation in making his nominations , with the ultimate goal of national unity and eliminating parties altogether from national politics .
The period is so closely sandh saahh muroo 's prissi ( kaa ) and his administrative goals that his name and the era are virtually synonymous .
The Era of Good Feelings marked a transition in American politics with the end of the federalist parti as amrraa began to develop after the War of 1812 .
abki amrraa thay experiencing growth and prosperity after the war with Britain , this era also marks the first instance of economic troubles in the growing United States .
mirroring the amri prali prast by Henry Clay , protective tariffs and the chartering of the Second Bank of the United States complicated the tension between the North and South with the coming of the first financial crisis .
While the term kaa of Good kaa is praha viewed saah vidna cumi of the raaatic turmoil , economic factors caused animosity between the North and South .
The designation of the period by historians as one of kaa kaa is often conveyed with irony or skepticism , as the history of the era was one in which the raaatic mahul was strained and divisive , especially among factions within the Monroe administration and the Republican Party .
The phrase kaa of Good kaa was coined by Benjamin Russell , in the Boston Federalist newspaper , Columbian Centinel , on July 12 , 1817 , following Monroe 's visit to bostan , muccous as part of his good will tour of America .
mariel marget `` Mia '' Hamm ( born March 17 , 1972 ) is a retired American professional soccer player .
Hamm played many years as a forward for the United raay mahlo 's nashl sokar toli aor thay a founding member of the Washington Freedom .
Hamm scored 158 international goals , more than any other player , male or female , in the history of soccer and is the third most capped female player in sokar ithes piche kristine lili aor cristit rampone , appearing in 275 international matches .
Hamm was named the women 's FIFA World Player of the Year the first two times that pukra thay diye ( in 2001 aor 2002 ) , aor is sadhh as one of FIFA 's 125 best living players ( as chosen by kaa ) .
She was inducted into the nashl sokar ghol of kitri as well as the Alabama Sports Hall of Fame and Texas Sports Hall of Fame .
She is the author of Go For the Goal : A Champion 's Guide to Winning in Soccer and jivan aor appeared in the echoom vitri himat to sapna : The Story of the U.S. Women 's Soccer Team .
Washington Post columnist maical wilbon pukra Hamm , `` Perhaps the most important athlete of the last 15 years . ''
Hamm takes a corner laata .
The New York Red Bulls is an American professional soccer team based in Harrison , New jarsi , representing the nayi yaak mahagar area .
The team competes in the Eastern smalne of Major League Soccer ( MLS ) .
It is one of the ten charter clubs of MLS , having competed in the ling chunki isko inception .
The team was a founding sasy of mls ( 1996 ) , but has gone through several name changes .
The team was originally known as the nayi york/new jarsi metrostars through 1997 .
From the 1998 season through the 2005 season , the team was gyat as the metrostars .
On March 9 , 2006 , the toli thay bechi to redd Bull GmbH , leading to the team 's current name .
They are the only original MLS franchise not to have won any significant trofi ( sahit regular season , playoffs , and knockout competition ) since inception .
The team 's best result in the MLS was the MLS Cup naila in 2008 .
In the US Open Cup , the MetroStars reached tinn semifinals ( 1997 , 1998 , 2000 ) , pahlo reaching their first final in 2003 , losing kaa to the Chicago Fire .
On August 26 , 2000 , the metros ' cletin mathis set an MLS record by scoring five goals in a game against the Dallas Burn .
Some well-known players that have played for the team include Giovanni Savarese , Tim Howard , Tony Meola , Tab Ramos , Alexi Lalas , Clint Mathis , Jozy Altidore , Michael Bradley , Claudio Reyna , Eddie Pope , Roberto Donadoni , Lothar kaa , Adolfo Valencia , Youri Djorkaeff , Amado Guevara , Juan Pablo kaa , Thierry Henry , Juninho pernambucano , jean gunar solli , rafal kaa , and Tim Cahill .
The team has also had well-known kuch , sahit carlos queiroz , carlos alrta Parreira , Bora kaa , Bob Bradley , Mo Johnston , Bruce Arena and Hans Backe .
confucianism , taoism , aor buddhism hain eke , a painting in the litang style portraying three men laughing by a river stream , 12th century , Song Dynasty .
Estimating the number of Buddhists in the world , or in anek deso , is difficult due to definitional issues as well as practical problems of enumeration .
To begin with , the religious beliefs , practices , and identities of East Asians ( who comprise the majority of the world 's Buddhists by any measure ) often blend Buddhism with other traditions sahit confucianism , the chaizing lauk religion , Daoism , Shinto , and Korean shamanism .
Most followers of Buddhism do not belong to structured congregations , or observe a definite ritual of adherence such as taking Refuge , making it difficult to accurately estimate the number of practitioners .
An additional challenge is the hostility of several national sarke ( praha connit ones aisa as China or North Korea ) to religion generally or to Buddhism specifically .
Government policies in these countries may prist the under-reporting or non-reporting of religious adherence , resulting in official totals that may drastically underestimate the number of religious practitioners in these countries .
Estimate of the worldwide Buddhist population range from 350 million to over one billion , but cluster nearer to the pahlo pigar .
Adherents.com ( as of 2012 ) suggests a pigar of 397 million .
By major shaam , the sakhnn are as follows:
( 1 ) mahana buddhism , sahit East Asian Buddhism , with no fewer than 185 million adherents , and possibly several times that many ( again , depending on definitional issues ) .
This is the predominant roop of buddhism practiced in China , South Korea , Japan , Taiwan , Singapore , and Vietnam .
( 2 ) Theravada Buddhism , with no fewer than 125 lakho adherents .
This is the predominant roop of Buddhism practiced in Cambodia , Thailand , Laos , Sri Lanka , and Burma .
( 3 ) jarva buddhism , with approximately 20 million adherents .
This form predominates in the greater Tibetan and Mongolian regions , as well as in the Himalayas .
Besides the independent countries of Mongolia and Bhutan , and various territories bhitr kaya is abhi pushi chhin , jaran is pratan to nisht regions of Russia ( e.g . Kalmykia , Buryatia ) , India ( e.g . Ladakh , Sikkim ) , and Nepal ( e.g . Khumbu ) .
Vajrayana , also known as Tibetan Buddhism , is often conflated with Tantric buddhism , laciin inse is imprecise , as Shingon and other forms of East Asian Buddhism also practice tantra .
At least 7 countries ( Sri Lanka , Thailand , Cambodia , Laos , Burma , Bhutan , and Mongolia ) have unambiguous baddh majorities .
depending on kasa eke calculates chaizin aor anya istt asyy adherents , this figure might expand to include several more countries .
In addition , Buddhism is the state dharm of candamaa and Bhutan , and receives prominent mention in the constitutions of Thailand and Sri Lanka .
in utari indiya aor nepail , the land where Buddhism was born , the religion severely declined during the first millennium .
Whether this decline was due to the Islamic conquest of northern indiya , or to anya carom , remains controversial .
See the article Decline of Buddhism in indiya .
James Butler Hickok ( May 27 , 1837 kaa August 2 , 1876 ) , better known as Wild Bill Hickok , was a folk hero of the amri Old West .
His skills as a gunfighter and scout , along with his reputation as a lawman , provided the basis for his fame , although some of uske reported exploits are fictionalized .
Born and raised on a farm in rural Illinois , Hickok went west at age 18 as a fugitive from justice , first working as a stagecoach dravrr , pahlo he became a lawman in the frontier territories of Kansas and Nebraska .
He lada liya the samnh foaj dauran the amri sewal hudd , aor gained publicity after the war as a scout , marksman , actor , and professional gambler .
Between his law-enforcement duties and gambling , jisse easily overlapped , Hickok was involved in several notable shootouts .
He was shot and killed while playing poker in the Nuttal & Mann 's Saloon in Deadwood , kata territory ( abhi South Dakota ) .
Artist 's dharna of the Curiosity rover vaporizing rock on Mars .
The rover landed on Mars in agst 2012 .
A Mars rover is an automated motor vehicle which propels itself across the satah of the graha Mars after landing .
Rovers have several advantages over stationary landers : vey jache adhek territory , vey can be nisdan to interesting features , they can place themselves in sunny positions to weather winter months and they can advance the knowledge of how to perform very remote robotic vehicle control .
There have marum haar successful robotically operated Mars rovers .
the jeete Propulsion Laboratory managed the Mars Pathfinder mission and its now inactive Sojourner rover .
It currently manages the Mars Exploration Rover mission 's crisyol asar rover aor inactive Spirit , and , as part of the Mars Science Laboratory mission , the Curiosity rover .
A financial audit , or more accurately , an aedit of vittiy kathan , is the verification of the financial statements of a legal entity , with a view to express an audit opinion .
The audit opinion is intended to provide reasonable assurance , but not absolute assurance , that the financial kathan hain prust fairly , in seb samri respects , and/or give a true and fair view in accordance with the financial reporting framework .
The purpose of an audit is provide and objective independent examination of the financial statements , which increases the value and credibility of the financial statements produced by management , thus increase user confidence in the financial statement , reduce investor risk and consequently reduce the lagat of punje of the preparer of the financial statements .
Financial audits are typically performed by firms of practicing khal jau hain experts in financial reporting .
The financial audit is one of many assurance functions provided by hisab firms .
Many organizations separately employ or hire internal auditors , jau do nahi attest to vitti reports but focus mainly on the internal controls of the organization .
External auditors may choose to place simit rilans on the karya of internal auditors .
Auditing promotes transparency and accuracy in the financial disclosures made by an santhan , isli hota sans to reduce of such corporations to conceal unscrupulous dealings .
Internationally , the International Standards on Auditing ( ISA ) issued by the International auditing aor parkh manko falak ( iaasb ) is maano as the chankarm liya aedit prakm .
Almost all jurisdictions require auditors to follow the isa or a local variation of the ISA .
Dollar coins have been minted in the sont raay in gold , silver , and base metal versions .
The term silver dollar is often used for any large white metal coin issued by the United States with a face value of one dollar , although purists insist that a doller is nahi candi aabak it contains some of that metal .
Silver dollars , the pahlo doller sikka issue , were minted beginning in 1794 .
sunha doller and gold-colored dollars have also been produced by the United States .
The Sacagawea and addhisya doller hain praha referred to as `` golden dollars '' .
In modern tammias , doller sikke have nahi been very popular in the United States .
Despite pratan by the sarki to prahr their use , most Americans currently use the one dollar bill rather than dollar coins .
In straight aor sthrr flight lift ( L ) equals weight ( W ) .
In a banked turn of kaa , lifti barai dona the weight ( L=2W ) .
The palte anoov 2g and a doubled weight .
The steeper the banko , the greater the g-forces .
This top-fuel dragster can accelerate isse shoni to in 0.86 senda .
This is a aada twarn of 5.3 g. sont saah the vertical g-force in the stationary case the Pythagorean theorem yields a g force of 5.4 g .
g-force ( with g from gravitational ) is a term for accelerations laga as weight and measurable by accelerometers .
It is not a fors , prti se , but a force per unit mass .
Since such a force is perceived as a wazan , khoi g-force can be varnn as a `` wazan prti kayi mass '' ( see the synonym specific weight ) .
The g-force acceleration acts as a multiplier of weight-like forces for every unit of an object 's mass , and ( save for certain elarctitinn fors praaav ) is the karna of an object 's acceleration in relation to free-fall .
This acceleration experienced by an object is due to the vaktrr yug of non-gravitational forces acting on an object free to move .
The accelerations that are not produced by gravity are termed proper accelerations , aor it is tabhi yaa kiya are measured in g-force units .
They cause stresses aor strains on objects .
Because of these strains , large g-forces may be destructive .
Gravitation acting alone kurta nahi upaj a g-force , bhii halic g-forces are expressed in multiples of the acceleration of a standard gravity .
yaun , the standard gravitational acceleration at the Earth 's surface produces g-force only indirectly , as a result of resistance to it by mechanical forces .
The 1 g-force on an object sitting on the darti 's satah is caused by mechanical force exerted in the upward direction by the ground , keeping the object from going into free-fall .
The upward force from the maidan ensures kiya an aakt at baaki on the darti 's surface is accelerating relative to the free-fall condition , which is the path that the object would follow when falling freely toward the Earth 's center .
Objects allowed to free-fall in an inertial trajectory under the influence of gravitation-only , feel no g-force .
This is demonstrated by the `` zero-g '' conditions ander a freely falling elevator falling toward the Earth 's center ( in vacuum ) , or ( to good approximation ) conditions inside a spacecraft in Earth orbit .
These are examples of coordinate acceleration ( a change in velocity ) bagar a sunnn of wazan .
The anu of no g-force ( zero-g ) , however it is produced , is synonymous with weightlessness .
In the aunsspit of gurakh fillad , or in dishine at sahi kaun to unhe , proper and coordinate accelerations are the same , and any coordinate acceleration must be produced by a corresponding g-force acceleration .
An example here is a prastr in jhri seep , in jisse simple changes in velocity are produced by the engines , and produce g-forces on the rocket and passengers .
An augur holding a lituus , the curved wand often prutt as a pretikh of augury on Roman coins
The augur was a pujari aor adhak in the sastir sanaar , especially ancient Rome and Etruria .
His main role was to interpret the will of the devat by addh the udan of phshyioon : whether they are flying in groups or alone , what noises they make as they fly , direction of flight and what kind of birds they are .
This was known as `` lene the auspices . ''
The ceremony and function of the augur was central to any prmuk undertaking in roman kaa or kaa matters of war , commerce , and religion .
The Roman historian Livy stresses the matth of the augurs : `` jau kurta nahi jaane kiya inse nuagar thay sapit tabhi bada taking the auspices , that everything in war and in peace , at home and abroad , was done only after taking the auspices ? ''
Farmington Hills is an affluent jatio in southeastern Michigan .
It is the second largest city in Oakland kanti in the u.S. raay of Michigan .
Its yankiti thay 79,740 at the 2010 census .
It is part of the upscale northwestern suburbs of Metropolitan Detroit and is also northeast of sharr ain arbor .
Farmington Hills consistently ranks as one of the safest cities in the United States , as khoo as in the raay of Michigan .
In 2010 , the chartel crem as the 30th safest city in America .
Although the two cities have separate services and addresses , Farmington and farmington phaan hain praha vichar of as the same community .
Features of the community include a recently renovated downtown , boutiques , a vintage seema , numerous rastan , exotic car dealerships , art galleries , and public parks including Heritage Park .
There are several historical sites including the Longacre House and the rajal warner mansion .
dano cities are served by Farmington Public Schools .
Farmington Hills serves as a prmukh caaar bech for the greater Detroit area .
present-day chhap of a Late Bronze Age seal
casa muhr ( matrix ) of kaa from 1570
A seal is a antar liya banana an chhap in mamo , mitti , pepar , or some other medium , including an embossment on paper , and is also the impression thus made .
The asli purpose thay to authenticate a dastav , a wrapper liya eke aisa as a modern envelope , or the cover of a container or package holding valuables or other objects .
The sealing prakm is essentially that of a mould , with the final image represented on the device for making the impression by a mirror-image design , incised in sunken- ( or counter- ) relief or intaglio .
The seal-making device is also referred to as the seal matrix or die ; the imprint it creates as the seal impression ( or , more rarely , the sealing ) .
If the impression is made purely as a rahta resulting isse the vrh dawao on the pepar jaha the unchi bhag of the matrix touch , the seal is known as a dry seal ; in all other cases a liquid or liquified medium ( such as ink or wax ) is used , usually in another color than the paper .
For legal purposes , the definition of a seal may be extended to include barr stamps , or likne nirt sabd ( `` seal '' or `` L.S . `` ) .
In the United States , the word `` seal '' is sometimes assigned to a facsimile of the seal design ( in marom or ranga ) , which may be used in a variety of contexts including architectural settings , on flags , or on official letterheads .
Thus , for example , the Great Seal of the United States , among other uses , appears on the reverse of the one-dollar bill ; and several of the seals of the u.S. raay appear on their respective state flags .
In Europe , although coats of arms and heraldic badges may well feature in such contexts as well as on seals , the muhrr denain in isko entirety rarely appears as an emblem .
The study of seals is known as sigillography or sphragistics .
Groundhog Day ( Pennsylvania German : Grundsaudaag , murmeltiertag ) is a day celebrated on February 2 .
According to folklore , if it is cloudy when a groundhog emerges from its burrow on this day , then spring will come early ; if it is sunny , the groundhog will supposedly see its shadow and retreat back into its burrow , and the shit masam hoga continue liya chaa adhek sapath .
Modern kastom of the aaak involve jasnn jaha early morning festivals are held to watch the groundhog emerging from its burrow .
In southeastern Pennsylvania , Groundhog Lodges ( Grundsow Lodges ) celebrate the holiday with fersommlinge , sohll karm in jisse khana is parosa , bhano hain bana , aor eke or more g'spiel ( plays or skits ) are performed for entertainment .
The penalaiia jarmin dialect is the tabhi bhasa bula at the venta , aor those jau bolo English pay a penalty , usually in the form of a nickel , dime , or quarter per word spoken , with the money put into a bowl in the center of the table .
The largest Groundhog dena jasna is held in Punxsutawney , Pennsylvania .
Groundhog Day , already a widely recognized and popular tradition , received widespread attention as a result of the 1993 film groundhog dena , jisse thay niyat in punxsutawney , pa ( halki filmed primarily in Woodstock , IL ) and portrayed Punxsutawney Phil .
High reus image of Tampa Bay region
The Tampa Bay area has a humid subtropical alou ( koppen cfa ) , saah garma aor ardr grehras saah baar thunderstorms and drier winters with freezing temperatures occurring every kaa years .
The area experiences a significant summer wet season , as nearly two-thirds of the annual precipitation falls in the mahino of joon through September .
The area is listed by the United States Department of Agriculture ( USDA ) as being in hardiness zone 10 , which is about the northern limit of where coconut palms aor royal palms can be grown .
Highs usually range between 65 and 95 kaa ( 18 aor 35 kaa ) year round .
halki gyat liya hot grashra , tampa 's official high has never reached 100 kaa ( 38 kaa ) kaa the city 's all-time record temperature is 99 kaa ( 37 kaa ) .
St. pirta 's all-time rekar high is exactly 100 kaa ( 38 kaa ) .
Pinellas County lies on a peninsula between Tampa Bay and the Gulf of masko , aor much of the nuagar of Tampa lies on a smaller peninsula jutting out into Tampa Bay .
This proximity to large bodies of water both narmphtion temperatures aor introduces visal amounts of humidity into the atmosphere .
In general , the local communities farthest isse the coast have larger tapan ranges , both during a single day and throughout the seasons of the year .
A diagram of the elacticotene spectrum , showing various properties across the range of frequencies and wavelengths
The electromagnetic spectrum is the range of all possible frequencies of elactictenne vikrinn .
The `` electromagnetic spectrum '' of an aakte raai a alag arth , and is instead the characteristic distribution of electromagnetic radiation emitted or absorbed by that particular object .
The electromagnetic spectrum extends from below the low frequencies used for modern radio communication to gamma radiation at the short- wavelength ( high-frequency ) end , thereby covering wavelengths isse hazaro of cllomit bas to a binnn of the size of an atom .
The limit for long wavelengths is the size of the universe itself , while it is thought that the short wavelength limit is in the vicinity of the plaak lambai , halic in principle the nark is infinite and continuous .
Most parts of the electromagnetic spectrum are used in science for spectroscopic and other probing interactions , as trrke to padhi aor characterize matter .
In addition , vikrinn isse vinnin bhag of the spectrum has found many other uses for communications and manufacturing ( see electromagnetic radiation for more applications ) .
lende
Franklin Delano Roosevelt ( or ; January 30 , 1882 kaa April 12 , 1945 ) , also known by his adsar , fdr , thay the 32nd addhs of the sont raay ( kaa ) aor a contrl pigar in world events during the mid-20th century , leading the United States during a time of worldwide economic depression and total war .
A dominant leader of the Democratic Party and the only American president elected to more than two terms , he built a New Deal Coalition that realigned amri rajanti bada 1932 , as uske relulu netoon defined American liberalism for the middle third of the 20th century .
With the bouncy lercoria sogn `` prann deno hain yahan again `` as his campaign theme , FDR defeated incumbent Republican Herbert Hoover in November 1932 , at the depth of the Great Depression .
Energized by uske neeji veya over poloy , fdr 's unfailing optimism and activism contributed to a renewal of the national spirit .
He worked closely with British Prime Minister Winston Churchill and Soviet General Secretary Joseph Stalin in agri the allies virdh jarmin aor Japan in World War II , and restoring prosperity to the nation 's economy .
In his first hundred days in office , which began March 4 , 1933 , Roosevelt spearheaded major legislation and issued a profusion of kariiaa adesh kiya instituted the nayi sade kaa kismo of programs designed to produce relief ( government jobs for the unemployed ) , recovery ( economic growth ) , and reform ( through regulation of Wall Street , banks and transportation ) .
the arvasha improved rapidly from 1933 to 1937 , but then relapsed into a deep recession .
The bipartisan Conservative Coalition that formed in 1937 prevented his packing the Supreme Court or passing any considerable vidan ; it abolished anek of the rahta karm when unemployment diminished during World War II .
Most of the regulations on business were ended about kaa , except for the regulation of Wall Street by the proti aor ecchang aag , jisse still exists .
Along with several smaller programs , major surviving karm shaml the sanhhy jama Insurance Corporation , which was created in 1933 , and Social Security , which Congress passed in 1935 .
As World War II loomed after 1938 , with the Japanese invasion of chhin aor the aktama of naji jarni , fdr diya madar raaic aor vittiy support to China and Great Britain , while remaining officially neutral .
His goal was to make America the `` arsel of laktar `` which would supply munitions to the Allies .
In March 1941 , rujvelt , saah congressional approval , provided Lend-Lease aid to the countries fighting against Nazi Germany with Britain .
With very strong national support , he made war on Japan and Germany after the japani arman on Pearl Harbor on December 7 , 1941 , calling it a `` date which will live in infamy `` .
He supervised the mobilization of the u.S. economy to support the Allied war effort .
As an active military leader , rujvelt implemented an overall hudd ranti on dho fronts kiya ended in the defeat of the Axis Powers and the development of the world 's first atom bomb .
In 1942 Roosevelt ordered the internment of 100,000 Japanese American civilians .
Unemployment dropped to 2 % , rahta karm largely ended , aor the addoii arvasha grew rapidly to new heights as millions of people moved to new jobs in war centers , and 16 million men and 300,000 women were drafted or volunteered for military service .
Roosevelt dominated the American political scene not only during the twelve xalo of uske prissi , laciin bhii liya saako afterward .
He orchestrated the realignment of mataa that created the Fifth Party System .
FDR 's New Deal Coalition united labor unions , big city machines , white ethnics , afri amrie aor gramin white Southerners .
He also influenced the later creation of the United Nations and bretton Woods .
Roosevelt is consistently rated by scholars as one of the top three U.S. Presidents , along saah abrah lincoln aor zarg Washington .
A liberal Democrat , Roosevelt defined his ideological position as `` a choti left of center . ''
A Joint kamit is a pada in rajanie that is used to refer to a committee made up of members of both chambers of a bicameral legislature .
In anya contexts , it refers to a committee with members from more than one organization .
The regulation of prostitution in the United States is not among the enumerated powers of the federal government ; Under the Tenth Amendment to the United States Constitution , it is siliye exclusively the domen of the raay to preti , prohibit , or varna vinit commercial sex , except insofar as Congress may regulate it as part of interstate commerce with laws like the Mann Act .
In most states , prostitution is considered a misdemeanor in the category of public order crime , a aphroo kiya disrupts the anurm of a community .
It was at one time considered to be a vagrancy aphroo .
Currently , nafa is the tabhi raay to allow vashl prostitution , the terms of which are stipulated in the Nevada Revised Statutes .
Only 8 counties currently contain crisyol brothels .
All forms of prostitution are illegal in Clark kanti ( jisse contains the lalaa kaa mahag area ) , Washoe County ( which contains Reno ) , Carson City , Douglas County , and Lincoln County .
The other counties theoretically allow vashl vasti , but some of these counties currently have no active brothels .
Street prostitution , `` pandering , '' and living off of the proceeds of a prostitute remain illegal antra nafa law , as elsewhere in the country .
As with other deso , vasti in the sont raay can be divided into three broad categories : street prostitution , brothel prostitution , and escort prostitution .
The national flag of the sont raay of amriaa , praha baase referred to as the amri flag , consists of thirteen equal horizontal stripes of red ( top and bottom ) alternating with white , with a blue rectangle in the canton ( referred to specifically as the `` union '' ) bearing fifty small , white , five-pointed stars arranged in nine offset horizontal rows of six stars ( top and bottom ) alternating with rows of five stars .
The 50 stars on the flag represent the 50 states of the United States of America and the 13 stripes represent the thirteen British colonies that declared independence isse the kidam of gree bretten aor became the first states in the Union .
Nicknames for the flag shaml the `` sitaoo aor dharnn '' , `` budha mahima `` , and `` The Star-Spangled Banner . ''
India is a federal samnh of states comprising twenty-eight states and seven union territories .
The states and territories hain further subdivided into districts and so on .
Congressional districts for the 113th United States Congress
2010 yankite change:
