A  partly submerged  glacier cave on Perito Moreno Glacier .
the बर्फ  facade is approximately 60 m high
Ice formations in the  titlis हिमानी  cave
A  हिमानी गुफा  is a cave formed within the ice of a glacier .
Glacier caves are often called ice caves , but this term is properly used to  describe bedrock  caves that contain year-round ice .
In physics , circular motion is a movement of an object along the circumference of a circle or  रोटेशन साथ  a circular path .
It can be  वर्दी , साथ निरंतर कोणीय रेट  of rotation ( and constant speed ) , or non-uniform with a changing rate of rotation .
The  रोटेशन around a  fixed axis of a three-dimensional body involves circular motion of its parts .
The equations of motion describe the movement of the  बीच of द्रव्यमान of a देह  .
उदाहरण of गोलाकार गति शामिल : an कृत्रिम उपग्रह orbiting the धरती at निरंतर  height , a stone which is tied to a rope and is being swung in circles , a car turning through a curve in a race track , an electron moving perpendicular to a uniform magnetic field , and a gear turning inside a mechanism .
Since the object 's velocity vector is constantly changing direction , the moving object is  undergoing त्वरण by a अभिकेन्द्रीय  force in the direction of the center of rotation .
Without this acceleration , the object  होता मूव in a सीधा लकीर  , according to Newton 's laws of motion .
अपोलो पंथ is a fictional अक्षर इससे the रॉकी films , initially portrayed as the undisputed हेवीवेट चैंपियन of the संसार .
He was played  by कार्ल  Weathers .
Creed had multiple nicknames , including The Master of  विपत्ति  , The King of Sting , The Dancing Destroyer , The Prince of Punch , The One and Only and The Count of Monte Fisto .
Urban legend states that Apollo  Creed  's name is a wordplay on the Apostles ' Creed , a statement of belief used in Christian churches .
All of Apollo 's championship  झगड़े यहूद अनुसूचित  for the 15 round distance .
Championship fights did not  बदलें  from 15 rounds to 12 rounds until 1987 .
Rocky Balboa is often wrongly credited with popularizing the red , white , and blue trunks ; Creed was the first man to wear them ( latterly worn by Rocky Balboa in the 3rd and 4th installments and finally by Tommy `` The Machine '' Gunn (  Tommy  Morrison ) in the 5th installment ) although normally he wore red and white , as seen in Rocky II .
Balboa 's signature colors were black  और gold—colors he  used in the latest movie .
In the  संयुक्त राज्य  , the title of federal judge usually means a judge appointed by the President of the United States and confirmed by the United States Senate pursuant to the Appointments Clause in Article II of the United States Constitution .
In addition to the Supreme Court of the United States , whose existence and some aspects of whose jurisdiction are beyond the constitutional power of Congress to alter , acts of Congress have established 13 courts of appeals ( also called `` circuit courts '' ) with appellate jurisdiction over different  regions of the संयुक्त  States , and 94 United States district courts .
Every judge  नियुक्त to ऐसे a अदालत may be categorized  as a federal judge ; such positions include the Chief Justice and Associate Justices of the Supreme Court , Circuit Judges of the courts of appeals , and district judges of the United States district courts .
All of these judges described thus far are referred to sometimes as `` Article  iii न्यायाधीशों '' क्युकी वे कसरत the न्यायिक शक्ति vested in the न्यायिक  branch of the federal government by Article III of the U.S. Constitution .
In addition , judges of the Court of  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Trade exercise judicial power pursuant to Article III .
Other judges serving in the federal courts , including magistrate judges and bankruptcy judges , are also sometimes referred to as `` federal judges '' ; however , they are neither  नियुक्त by the अध्यक्ष nor पुष्टि  by the Senate , and their power derives from Article I instead .
See  आलेख i और  Article III tribunals .
The Beretta 21A Bobcat is a small pocket-sized semi-automatic  पिस्टल designed  by Beretta in Italy .
Production began in late 1984 ,  solely in  the Beretta U.S.A. facility in Accokeek , Maryland .
It is a further development of  the beretta  Model 20 , whose production ended in 1985 .
Variable Universal Life Insurance ( often  shortened  to VUL ) is a type of life insurance that builds a cash value .
In a VUL , the cash value can be invested  in a  wide variety of separate accounts , similar to mutual funds , and the choice of which of the available separate accounts to use is entirely up to the contract owner .
The 'variable ' component in the name refers to this ability to  invest in पृथक खाते जिनकी  values vary—they vary because they are invested in stock and/or bond markets .
The 'universal ' component in the name refers to the flexibility the owner has in making  प्रीमियम  payments .
The premiums can vary from nothing in a given month up to maximums defined by the Internal   Revenue Code for life insurance .
This flexibility is in contrast to whole life insurance that has fixed premium payments that typically can not be missed without  lapsing the नीति ( हालांकि एक may कसरत an स्वचालित प्रीमियम  Loan feature , or surrender dividends to pay a Whole Life premium ) .
Variable universal life is a type of permanent life insurance ,  क्युकी the मौत लाभ होगा be सशुल्क if the insured मरता कोई समय  as long as there is sufficient cash value to pay the costs of insurance in the policy .
With most if not all VULs , unlike whole life , there is no endowment age ( the age at which the cash value equals the death  लाभ राशि , जिससे लिये पूरे जीवन  is typically 100 ) .
This is yet another key advantage of VUL  over  Whole Life .
With a typical whole life policy , the death benefit is limited to the  फेस राशि  specified in the policy , and at endowment age , the face amount is all that is paid out .
Thus with either  मौत or endowment  , the insurance company keeps any cash value built up over the years .
However , some participating  पूरे जीवन नीतियों प्रस्ताव  riders which specify that any dividends paid on the policy be used to purchase `` paid up additions '' to the policy which increase both the cash value and the death benefit over time .
If investments made in the separate accounts out-perform the general account  of the बीमे कम्पनी , a उच्चतर rate-of-return  can occur than the fixed rates-of-return typical for whole life .
The combination over the years of no endowment age , continually increasing death benefit , and if a high rate-of-return is earned in the separate accounts of a VUL policy , this could  परिणाम in उच्चतर मान to the मालिक  or beneficiary than that of a whole life policy with the same amounts of money paid in as premiums .
The outdoor wood boiler is a variant of the  क्लासिक  wood stove adapted for set-up outdoors while still transferring the heat to interior buildings .
A mound of  लड़की स्काउट  cookies .
This  mound  contains 74 boxes of cookies
Girl Scout Cookies are cookies sold by Girl Scouts of the USA ( GSUSA ) as one of its major  fundraisers लिये लोकल स्काउट इकाई  .
Members of the GSUSA have been  selling कुकीज़ चूंकि  1917 to raise funds .
Girls who participate can earn  पुरस्कार  for their efforts .
There are also unit incentives if the unit as a whole  करता खूब .
As of 2007 , sales were estimated at about 200  लाख  boxes per year .
विश्वविद्यालयों हॉल
Purdue University , located in West Lafayette , Indiana  , is the फ्लैगशिप विश्वविद्यालयों  of the six-campus Purdue University system .
purdue थी  founded on May 6 , 1869 , as a land-grant university when the Indiana General Assembly , taking advantage of the Morrill Act , accepted a donation of land and money from Lafayette businessman John Purdue to establish a college of science , technology , and agriculture in his name .
The first classes were held on  सितंबर 16  , 1874 , with six instructors and 39 students .
Today , Purdue is a member of the Big Ten Conference , and is a well known  world-class शोध संस्था  .
Purdue enrolls the second largest student body of any university in Indiana as well as  the चौथी largest अंतरराष्ट्रीय  student population of any university in the United States .
Purdue offers both undergraduate and graduate  कार्यक्रम  in over 211 major areas of study , and is well known for its competitive engineering curricula .
The university has also been highly influential in America 's history of aviation , having established the first  कॉलेज क्रेडिट offered  in flight training , the first four-year bachelor 's degree in aviation , and the first university airport ( Purdue University Airport ) .
Purdue 's aviation technology program remains one of the most  प्रतिस्पर्धी aviation-specific  programs in the world .
In the mid-20th century , Purdue 's  aviation  program expanded to encompass advanced spaceflight technology giving rise to Purdue 's nickname , Cradle of Astronauts .
Twenty-three Purdue graduates have gone on to become astronauts ,  सहित गस grissom ( एक of the असली पारा सात astronauts  ) , Neil Armstrong ( the first person to walk on the moon ) , and Eugene Cernan ( the most recent person to walk on the moon ) .
A sebaceous cyst ( ) is a term  कि loosely refers to either epidermoid  cysts ( also known as epidermal cysts ; L72.0 ) or pilar cysts ( also known as trichilemmal cysts ; L72.1 ) .
Because an epidermoid cyst originates in the  epidermis  and a pilar cyst originates from hair follicles , by definition , neither type of cyst is strictly a sebaceous cyst .
The name is regarded as a misnomer as the fatty , white , semi-solid  सामग्री in दोनो of ये  cyst entities is not sebum , but keratin .
Furthermore , under the microscope neither  एंटिटी contains  sebaceous glands .
In practice ,  however ,  the terms are often used interchangeably .
`` True '' sebaceous cysts are relatively rare and are known as steatocystomas or  , if अनेक , as  steatocystoma multiplex .
Modern  pointe  shoes .
The edge of the  टो  pad , which is inserted between the foot and toe box for cushioning , can be seen on the right foot .
A pointe shoe is a type of shoe worn by ballet dancers  जब performing  pointe work .
Pointe shoes developed from the desire for dancers to appear  weightless और sylph  -like and have evolved to enable dancers to dance en pointe ( on the tips of their toes ) for extended periods of time .
They are normally worn by female dancers , though male dancers  may पहनें उन्हें लिये अपरंपरागत भूमिकाएँ ऐसे as the भद्दा stepsisters in सिंडरेला , नीचे  in A Midsummer Night 's Dream , or men performing as women in dance companies such as Les Ballets Trockadero and Grandiva .
They are manufactured in a variety of colors , most commonly in shades of  लाइट  pink .
This tablespoon has a  क्षमता  of about 15 mL .
Measuring  spoons
In  the us और भाग  of Canada , a tablespoon is the largest type of spoon used for eating from a bowl .
In the UK , Europe and most Commonwealth countries , a tablespoon is a type of  विशाल चमचा  usually used for serving .
In countries where a tablespoon is a serving spoon , the nearest equivalent to the US tablespoon  is either the मिठाई  spoon or the soup spoon .
A tablespoonful , nominally the capacity of one tablespoon ,  is commonly प्रयुक्त as a माप  of volume in cooking .
it is abbreviated  as T , tb , tbs , tbsp , tblsp , or tblspn .
The capacity of ordinary  tablespoons  is not regulated by law and is subject to considerable variation .
In the USA one tablespoon ( measurement unit ) is  लगभग 15 ml  ; the capacity of an actual tablespoon ( dining utensil ) ranges from 7 mL to 14 mL .
In  ऑस्ट्रेलिया  one tablespoon ( measurement unit ) is 20 mL .
Harry Potter is a series of  सात काल्पनिक novels  written by the British author J. K. Rowling .
The books chronicle the adventures of a wizard , Harry Potter , and his friends Ronald Weasley  और हर्माइनी ग्रेंजर , सब of जिसको  are students at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry .
The main story arc concerns Harry 's quest to overcome the Dark wizard Lord Voldemort , whose aims are to become immortal  , conquer the wizarding world ,  subjugate non-magical people , and destroy all those who stand in his way , especially Harry Potter .
Since the release of the first novel Harry Potter and the Philosopher  's स्टोन on 30 जून 1997 , the किताबे have  gained immense popularity , critical acclaim and commercial success worldwide .
The series has also had some share of criticism  , सहित चिंता लिये the increasingly  dark tone .
, the book  series has sold about  450 million copies , making it the best-selling book series in history , and has been translated into 67 languages .
The last four books consecutively set  रिकॉर्ड as the fastest-selling  books in history .
A series of many genres , including fantasy and coming of age ( with  तत्व  of mystery , thriller , adventure , and romance ) , it has many cultural meanings and references .
According to  रोलिंग  , the main theme is death .
There are also many other themes in the series , such as prejudice  और भ्रष्टाचार  .
The initial major  प्रकाशक of the किताबे  were Bloomsbury in the United Kingdom and Scholastic Press in the United States .
The books have since been  प्रकाशित by अनेक प्रकाशक  worldwide .
The books , with  the सातवाँ किताब विभाजित  into two parts , have been made into an eight-part film series by Warner Bros. Pictures , the highest-grossing film series of all time .
The series also originated much  tie-in merchandise , बनाना  the Harry Potter brand worth in excess of $ 15 billion .
Also due to the success of the books and films , Harry Potter has been used for a theme park ,  the wizarding संसार of हैरी  Potter in Universal Parks & Resorts 's Islands of Adventure .
RS-68 being tested at NASA 's Stennis  स्पेस बीच  .
The nearly transparent exhaust is due to this engine  's  exhaust being mostly superheated steam ( water vapor from its propellants , hydrogen and oxygen )
Viking 5C  प्रक्षेपास्त्र  engine
A rocket engine ,  or बस `` प्रक्षेपास्त्र '' , is a जेट इंजन कि उपयोग तभी भंडारित propellant द्रव्यमान लिये forming इसके ऊँची गति propulsive जेट .
प्रक्षेपास्त्र इंजन हैं प्रतिक्रिया इंजन और obtain thrust in accordance साथ न्यूटन 's तीसरा  law .
Since they need no external material to form their jet , rocket  इंजन can be प्रयुक्त लिये spacecraft नोदन  as well as terrestrial uses , such as missiles .
Most rocket  इंजन हैं आतंरिक  combustion engines , although non-combusting forms also exist .
Rocket engines as a group have the highest exhaust velocities , are by far  the lightest  , but are the least propellant efficient of all types of jet engines .
`` ... Baby One More Time  '' is a सोंग by  American recording artist Britney Spears .
It served as Spears 's debut single and title track from her debut studio album ,  ... baby  One More Time ( 1999 ) .
Written by Max  मार्टिन और उत्पादित by मार्टिन और  Rami , `` ... Baby One More Time '' was released on September 30 , 1998 , by Jive Records .
After recording and sending a demo tape with an unused song from Toni Braxton , Spears signed a  multi-album सौदे साथ  Jive .
`` ... Baby One More Time '' is a teen pop and  dance-pop सोंग कि refers to a लड़की  who regrets breaking up with her boyfriend .
The song received generally  अनुकूल समीक्षाएँ  from critics , who praised its composition .
``   ... Baby One More Time '' attained global success , reaching number one in every country it charted .
It also received numerous certifications around the  संसार ,  and is one of the best-selling singles of all time , with over 10 million copies sold .
An accompanying music video , directed by Nigel Dick  , portrays स्पीयर्स  as a student from a Catholic high school , who starts to daydream that she is singing and dancing around the school , while watching her love interest from afar .
The music video was later referenced in the music video of `` If U Seek Amy `` ( 2008 ) , where Spears 's fictional daughter is dressed with a  समान schoolgirl पहनावा जबकि wearing गुलाबी ribbons in  her hair .
In 2010 ,  the म्यूज़िक वीडियो लिये `` ... baby एक अधिक समय  '' was voted the third most influential video in the history of pop music , in a poll held by Jam ! .
Spears has performed `` ... Baby One More Time '' in a number of live appearances and in all of her  कॉन्सर्ट टुर  .
It was the encore of the ... Baby One More Time Tour ( 1999 ) and Dream Within a Dream Tour ( 2001 )  ;  Spears also performed remixed versions of the song during the Oops ! ...
I Did It Again World Tour ( 2000 ) , The Onyx Hotel Tour ( 2004 ) , The M+M 's Tour ( 2007 ) , The Circus   Starring Britney Spears ( 2009 ) , and the Femme Fatale Tour ( 2011 ) .
`` ... Baby   One More Time '' was nominated for a Grammy Award for Best Female Pop Vocal Performance , and has been included in lists by Blender , Rolling Stone and VH1 .
It has been noted for redefining the sound of late   1990s music .
स्पीयर्स रै नामित ``  ... Baby One More Time '' as one of her favorite songs from her career .
It was also the final song  to be निभाई  on the BBC 's music programme Top of the Pops .
Cholera is an  संक्रमण in the छोटी आंत  caused by the bacterium Vibrio cholerae .
the  main symptoms are watery diarrhea and vomiting .
Transmission occurs primarily by drinking water or eating food that has been contaminated by the feces ( waste product ) of an infected  व्यक्ति , सहित  one with no apparent symptoms .
The severity of the diarrhea and vomiting can lead to rapid dehydration and electrolyte  असंतुलन , और मौत  in some cases .
The primary treatment is oral rehydration therapy  ,  typically with oral rehydration solution , to replace water and electrolytes .
If this is not tolerated  or करता नहीं  provide improvement fast enough , intravenous fluids can also be used .
जीवाणुरोधी  drugs are beneficial in those with severe disease to shorten its duration and severity .
Worldwide , it  affects 3–5  million people and causes 100,000–130,000 deaths a year .
Cholera was one of the  earliest infections  to be studied by epidemiological methods .
The Picture of Dorian Gray is the only published novel by Oscar Wilde , appearing as the lead story in Lippincott 's Monthly Magazine  on 20 जून 1890 , मुद्रित as the जुलाई 1890  issue of this magazine .
The magazine 's editors feared the  स्टोरी थी अभद्र as सुपुर्द , so  they censored roughly 500 words , without Wilde 's knowledge , before publication .
But even with that , the story was still greeted  साथ आक्रोश by अंग्रेजों reviewers  , some of whom suggested that Wilde should be prosecuted on moral grounds , leading Wilde to defend the novel aggressively in letters to the British press .
Wilde later revised the story for book publication , making substantial alterations , deleting controversial passages ,  adding नई अध्याय और सहित an  aphoristic Preface which has since become famous in its own right .
The amended version was published  by  Ward , Lock and Company in April 1891 .
Some  विद्वानों मानना  that Wilde would today have wanted us to read the version he originally submitted to Lippincott 's .
The novel tells of a young man named Dorian Gray , the subject of a painting by artist Basil  hallward .
Basil is impressed by Dorian 's   beauty and becomes infatuated with him , believing his beauty is responsible for a new mode in his art .
Dorian meets Lord Henry Wotton , a friend of Basil 's , and  becomes enthralled by रब  Henry 's world view .
Espousing a new hedonism ,  रब हेनरी suggests  the only things worth pursuing in life are beauty and fulfilment of the senses .
realizing कि एक दिन उसके सौंदर्य होगा  fade , Dorian ( whimsically ) expresses a desire to sell his soul to ensure the portrait Basil has painted would age rather than he .
Dorian 's wish is fulfilled , and when he subsequently pursues a life of debauchery , the portrait serves as a reminder of the effect each  act  has upon his soul , with each sin displayed as a disfigurement of his form , or through a sign of aging .
The Picture of Dorian Gray is considered  a कार्य of  classic Gothic fiction with a strong Faustian theme .
Sári Gábor ( born 6 February  1917 ) , ज्ञात as ज़ा ज़ा गैबर (  ) , is a Hungarian -born American actress who acted in supporting roles in movies , on Broadway , and occasionally on television .
गैबर  was also a socialite .
She began her stage career in Vienna at age 15 , and was crowned Miss  हंगेरियाई  in 1936 .
She emigrated to the United States in 1941 and became a sought-after actress with  `` यूरोपीय फ्लेयर  and style '' , with a personality that `` exuded charm and grace '' .
Her first movie role was as supporting actress  in प्यारे  to Look At .
She later acted in We 're  नहीं  Married !
and played one of her few leading roles in Moulin Rouge (  1952 ) , निर्देशित by जॉन हस्टन  , who described her as a `` creditable '' actress .
Besides her film and television appearances , she is best known for having  नौ पतियों  , including hotel magnate Conrad Hilton and actor George Sanders .
She once stated , `` Men have always liked me and  i have  always liked men .
But I like a mannish man , a  man जो knows  how to talk to and treat a woman – not just a man with muscles . ''
Bruce Lee ( traditional : 李小龍 ; born Lee Jun-fan ; 27 November 1940 – 20 July 1973 ) was a Chinese American martial artist , actor , martial arts  प्रशिक्षक , पारस , और  filmmaker .
The founder of Jeet Kune Do , Lee was the son of  cantonese ओपेरा स्टार ली  Hoi-Chuen .
He is widely considered by  टीकाकारों ,  critics , media and other martial artists to be one of the most influential martial artists of all time , and a pop culture icon of the 20th century .
He is often credited  साथ helping to बदलें  the way Asians were presented in American films .
Lee was born in Chinatown , San Francisco on 27 November 1940 to parents from Hong Kong and was raised in Kowloon  साथ उसके परिवार  until his late teens .
He was introduced  to the फिल्मी उद्योग  by his father and appeared in several films as a child actor .
Lee moved to the United States at the age of 18  to प्राप्त उसके उच्चतर शिक्षा , और it थी  during this time that he began teaching martial arts .
His Hong Kong and Hollywood -produced films elevated the traditional Hong Kong martial arts  फिल्मी to a नई स्तर of लोकप्रियता और acclaim ,  sparking a surge of interest in Chinese martial arts in the West in the 1970s .
The direction and tone of his films changed and influenced martial arts and martial arts films in Hong Kong and the  rest of  the world .
He is noted for his roles in five feature-length films : Lo Wei 's The Big Boss ( 1971 ) and Fist of Fury ( 1972 ) ;  रास्ता of the ड्रैगन ( 1972 ) , निर्देशित और लिखा by ली  ; Warner Brothers ' Enter the Dragon ( 1973 ) and The Game of Death ( 1978 ) , both directed by Robert Clouse .
Lee became an iconic figure known throughout the world , particularly among the Chinese , as he portrayed Chinese  राष्ट्रवाद  in his films .
He initially trained in Wing Chun , but later rejected well-defined  martial आर्ट शैलियाँ , favouring बजाय the  use of techniques from various sources , in the spirit of his personal martial arts philosophy , which he dubbed Jeet Kune Do ( The Way of the Intercepting Fist ) .
Lee held dual citizenship of Hong  काँग और the संयुक्त  States .
He died in Kowloon Tong on 20 July  1973 at  age 32 .
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( COPD )  , भी ज्ञात as दीर्घकालिक obstructive फेफड़ों बीमारी ( ठंडा ) , दीर्घकालिक obstructive  airway disease ( COAD ) , chronic airflow limitation ( CAL ) and chronic obstructive respiratory disease ( CORD ) , is the occurrence of chronic bronchitis or emphysema , a pair of commonly co-existing diseases of the lungs in which the airways narrow over time .
This limits airflow to and from the lungs , causing  shortness of साँस (  dyspnea ) .
In clinical practice , COPD is defined by its  characteristically कम airflow  on lung function tests .
In contrast to asthma , this limitation is poorly reversible and  प्रायः gets progressively  worse over time .
COPD is caused by noxious particles or gas , most commonly from tobacco smoking , which triggers an  असामान्य  inflammatory response in the lung .
the निदान  of COPD requires lung function tests .
Important management  रणनीति हैं  smoking cessation , vaccinations , rehabilitation , and drug therapy ( often using inhalers ) .
Some patients go on to require long-term oxygen  चिकित्सा or फेफड़ों  transplantation .
Worldwide , COPD ranked as the sixth leading  कारण of मौत  in 1990 .
It is  प्रक्षिप्त to become the चौथी अग्रणी  cause of death worldwide by 2030 , due to an increase in smoking rates and demographic changes in many countries .
copd is the तीसरा  leading cause of death in the U.S. , and the economic burden of COPD in the U.S. in 2007 was $ 42.6 billion in health care costs and lost productivity .
Annelies `` Anne '' Marie Frank ( , ? , ; 12 June 1929early March 1945  ) is एक of the सबसे discussed  Jewish victims of the Holocaust .
उसके  diary has been the basis for several plays and films .
Born  in  the city of Frankfurt am Main in Weimar Germany , she lived most of her life in or near Amsterdam , in the Netherlands .
Born a  जर्मनी  national , Frank lost her citizenship in 1941 .
She gained  अंतरराष्ट्रीय कीर्ति  posthumously after her diary was published .
It documents her experiences hiding  दौरान the  German occupation of the Netherlands in World War II .
The Frank family moved from Germany to Amsterdam in 1933 , the year the Nazis  gained कंट्रोल over जर्मनी  .
By the beginning of 1940 , they were trapped in Amsterdam by the Nazi  occupation of the नीदरलैंड्स  .
As  persecutions of the यहूदी  population increased in July 1942 , the family went into hiding in the hidden rooms of Anne 's father , Otto Frank 's , office building .
After two years , the group was betrayed and  transported to विशेषज्ञता  camps .
Anne Frank and her sister , Margot , were eventually transferred to the Bergen-Belsen concentration  camp ,  where they died of typhus in March 1945 .
Otto Frank , the only  उत्तरजीवी of the परिवार , लौटे to एम्सटर्डम  after the war to find that Anne 's diary had been saved , and his efforts led to its publication in 1947 .
It was translated from its original Dutch and  पहला प्रकाशित in अंग्रेज़ी in  1952 as The Diary of a Young Girl .
It has since been translated into  अनेक  languages .
The diary , which was given to Anne on her 13th birthday ,  क्रॉनिकल्स उसके जीवन इससे 12 जून  1942 until 1 August 1944 .
कर्ट  's signature
Kurt Donald Cobain ( February 20 , 1967 – April 5 , 1994 ) was an American musician and artist ,  बेहतरीन ज्ञात as the  lead singer , guitarist and primary songwriter of the grunge band Nirvana .
Cobain formed Nirvana with Krist Novoselic in Aberdeen , Washington in 1985 and established it as part of the  सिएटल म्यूज़िक झाँकी , having  its debut album Bleach released on the independent record label Sub Pop in 1989 .
After signing with major label DGC Records , the  बैंड मिला भेदन  success with `` Smells Like Teen Spirit `` from its second album Nevermind ( 1991 ) .
Following the success of Nevermind , Nirvana  थी  labeled `` the flagship band '' of Generation X , and Cobain hailed as `` the spokesman of a generation '' .
Cobain , however , was often uncomfortable and frustrated , believing his message and artistic vision to have been misinterpreted by the public , with his personal  मुद्दे  often subject to media attention .
He challenged Nirvana 's audience with its final  स्टुडियो एल्बम  In Utero ( 1993 ) .
दौरान the  last years of his life , Cobain struggled with heroin addiction , illness and depression .
He also had difficulty coping with his fame and public image , and the professional and lifelong personal pressures surrounding himself and his wife , musician  कोर्टनी  Love .
On April 8 , 1994 , Cobain was found dead at his home in Seattle , the victim of what was officially  शासित a आत्महत्या by a self-inflicted shotgun घाव to  the head .
The circumstances of his death at age  27 have become a टॉपिक  of public fascination and debate .
Since their debut , Nirvana , with Cobain as a songwriter , has sold over 25  लाख एल्बम  in the U.S. , and over 50 million worldwide .
Radial  इंजन  timing and cam mechanism .
Click for full  रेज़ोल्यूशन  animation .
रेडियल इंजन  of a biplane
निपुण लाठी ( कतरा ) , स्लेव और balances इससे a two-row , fourteen-cylinder pratt & व्हिटनी जुड़वा बर्र
The radial engine is a reciprocating  प्रकार आतंरिक दहन  engine configuration in which the cylinders point outward from a central crankshaft like the spokes of a wheel .
It resembles a stylized star when viewed from the front , and is called a `` star engine  '' ( जर्मनी sternmotor  ) in some languages .
The radial configuration was very commonly used in aircraft engines before turbine engines  became predominant  .
The Golden Girls is an American sitcom , created by Susan Harris , that originally aired on NBC from September 13 , 1985 , to May  9 , 1992 .
Starring  bea आर्थर , बेट्टी श्वेत  , Rue McClanahan and Estelle Getty , the show centers on four older women sharing a home in Miami , Florida .
It was produced by Witt/Thomas/Harris Productions , in association with Touchstone Television , and  पॉल junger witt , टोनी थामस  , and Harris served as the original executive producers .
The Golden Girls received critical acclaim throughout most of its run and won  अनेक पुरस्कार  , including the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Comedy Series twice .
It also won three Golden Globe Awards for  बेहतरीन टेलीविज़न श्रेणी  – Musical or Comedy .
All four stars each received an Emmy Award  throughout the श्रेणी ' चलाएं और था अनेक nominations  .
The  श्रेणी  also ranked among the top ten highest-rated programs for six out of its seven seasons .
Deepwater drilling is the process of oil and gas  खोजी और उत्पादन  in depths of more than 500 feet .
By this definition , there are approximately  600 deepwater  wells in the Gulf of Mexico .
It has been economically infeasible for many years , but with  उठती आयल कीमतें  , more companies are investing in this area .
Major companies working in this sector include Diamond Offshore  , transocean ,  and Baker Hughes .
There are basically two kinds of mobile deepwater drilling rigs :  semi-submersible  drilling rigs and drillships .
Drilling can also be performed from a fixed-position installation such as a floating spar ( platform )  or tension-leg मंच  .
Recent industry analysis has estimated that the total expenditure in the global deepwater  अवसंरचना मार्केट होगा पहुँचें $ 145bn  in 2011 .
“Not all oil is accessible on  जमीन  or in shallow water .
You can find some oil deposits buried deep   under the ocean floor.” ... Using sonic equipment , oil companies determine the drilling sites most likely to produce oil .
Then they  उपयोग a मोबाईल offshore  drilling unit ( MODU ) to dig the initial well .
Some units are converted into production rigs , meaning they switch from  खुदाई  for oil to capturing oil once it 's found .
Most of the time , the oil company will replace the MODU with a more permanent oil production rig to capture  oil.” ... the मोदू 's जॉब  is to drill down into the ocean 's floor to find oil deposits .
The part of the drill that extends below the  डेक  and through the water is called the riser .
The riser allows for drilling fluids to  मूव between the मंजिल और  the rig .
Engineers lower a drill string -- a series of pipes designed to drill down to the oil deposit -- through   the riser.”
“The  विस्तार of deepwater  drilling is happening despite accidents in offshore fields ... ”
In 2010 a large explosion occurred killing 11 workers and spilling millions of gallons of oil  into the गल्फ of मैक्सिको जबकि a bp  oil rig was drilling in deep waters .
“ ... Despite the risks , the deepwater drilling trend is spreading in the Mediterranean and off  the coast of  East Africa after a string of huge discoveries of natural gas.”
“The reason for the resumption of such  खुदाई  , analyst say , is continuing high demand for energy worldwide.”
America needs the oil so it is almost necessary to face the high risks that come with deepwater drilling in order for Americans to  continue to carry on उनके रोज जीवनदान  .
“The  उर्जा विभाग recently  projected that gulf oil production would expand from its 2011 level of 1.3 million barrels a day , still nearly a quarter of total domestic production , to 2 million barrels a day by 2020.”
deepwater खुदाई affects the पर्यावरण  in both negative and positive ways .
Although Deepwater drilling rarely causes oil spills it  is स्टिल a  hazardous possible outcome .
Oil spills result in oil sinking to the bottom of the ocean smothering plant  जीवन leaving मछली बगैर  food and shelter to survive .
On the  अन्य हाथ deepwater खुदाई प्रभाव the पर्यावरण in a धनात्मक तरीके too .
In time once the deepwater oil well is not in use anymore plants will grow on and  around the  well making a cave or cavern like shelter ideal for animals to thrive in .
Deepwater drilling also lets  us देखिए the गहराइयों of  the ocean floor that are hardly ever seen .
”Cameras on rovers at the bottom of the wells record footage and take photos of  विरल मछली कि हैं  in there natural habitat , giving scientist a look at animals they rarely seen” ( Chevron Corporation ) . ''
Monica Samille Lewinsky ( born July 23 , 1973 ) is an  अमरीकी स्त्री साथ जिसको  United States President Bill Clinton admitted to having had an `` improper relationship '' while she worked at the White House in 1995 and 1996 .
The affair and its repercussions ( which included Clinton 's impeachment ) became known  as the lewinsky कांड  .
Francis Albert `` Frank '' Sinatra , , ( December 12 , 1915 – May 14 , 1998 ) was   an American singer and film actor .
Beginning his musical career in the swing era with Harry James and Tommy Dorsey , Sinatra found unprecedented  कामयाबी as  a solo artist from the early to mid-1940s after being signed to Columbia Records in 1943 .
Being the  आइडल of the  `` bobby soxers `` , he released his first album , The Voice of Frank Sinatra in 1946 .
His professional career had stalled by the 1950s , but it was  पुनर्जन्म in 1953 बाद  he won the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor for his performance in From Here to Eternity .
He signed with Capitol Records in 1953 and released several critically lauded  एल्बम ( ऐसे as  In the Wee Small Hours , Songs for Swingin ' Lovers ! , Come Fly with Me , Only the Lonely and Nice 'n ' Easy ) .
Sinatra left Capitol to found his own record label , Reprise Records in 1961 ( finding success with albums such as Ring-a-Ding-Ding ! , Sinatra at the Sands and Francis Albert  सिनात्रा & अंतोनियो कार्लोस jobim  ) , toured internationally , was a founding member of the Rat Pack and fraternized with celebrities and statesmen , including John F. Kennedy .
Sinatra turned 50 in 1965 , recorded the retrospective September of My Years , starred in the Emmy -winning television special Frank Sinatra : A Man and His Music , and scored hits with `` Strangers in the Night `` and  ``  My Way `` .
With sales of his music dwindling and after appearing in several poorly received films , Sinatra retired for the first time in  1971  .
Two years later , however , he came out of  रिटायरमेंट और in 1973  recorded several albums , scoring a Top 40 hit with `` ( Theme From ) New York , New York `` in 1980 .
Using his Las Vegas shows as a home base , he toured both within the United States and internationally , until a short time before his death in 1998  .
Sinatra also forged a highly successful career as a film  कर्ता  .
After winning Best Supporting Actor in 1953 , he also garnered a nomination for Best Actor for The  man साथ the सुनहरी भुजा , और नाजुक acclaim लिये उसके प्रदर्शन  in The Manchurian Candidate .
He also starred in such musicals as High Society , Pal Joey ,  यारों  and Dolls and On the Town .
Sinatra was honored at the Kennedy Center Honors in 1983 and was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom by Ronald  reagan in 1985 और the congressional  Gold Medal in 1997 .
He was the recipient of eleven Grammy Awards , including the Grammy Trustees Award , Grammy Legend Award and  the ग्रैमी आजीवन उपलब्धि  Award .
Sinatra is also one of world’s best-selling artists of all time , having sold more than 150  लाख  copies worldwide .
ठेठ  cornhole board
cornhole , भी ज्ञात as सेम थैला टॉस  , corn toss , baggo or bags , is a lawn game in which players take turns throwing corn hole bags at a raised platform with a hole in the far end .
A bag in  the छेद  scores 3 points , while one on the platform scores 1 point .
Play  continues जबतक a टोली  or player reaches the score of 21 .
The American Gold  त्रिभुज is  an official gold bullion coin of the United States .
Authorized under the  सुनहरा bullion  Coin Act of 1985 , it was first released by the United States Mint in 1986 .
Bikram Yoga is a system of yoga that Bikram Choudhury synthesized from traditional hatha yoga techniques and popularized beginning  in  the early 1970s .
All Bikram Yoga classes  चलाएं लिये 90 मिनट्स  and consist of the same series of 26 postures and 2 breathing exercises .
Bikram Yoga  is ideally practiced  in a room heated to 105°F ( ≈ 40.6°C ) with a humidity of 40 % , .
Christopher Michael Massey ( born 26 January 1990 ) is an American actor , comedian and rapper  best known for  starring as Michael Barret in Nickelodeon television series Zoey 101 .
massey रै प्राप्त  many awards and nomination including a Young Artist Award and Emmy Awards nominations .
he  is also known for appearing in several commercials in the early 2000s .
A  conventional  teaspoon made of stainless steel .
A teaspoon is an item of cutlery  and/or a measuring  instrument , as well as a unit of measurement of volume in some countries and customs .
A fern is any one or more of a  समूह of परिचय 12,000  species of plants belonging to the botanical group known as Pteridophyta .
नापसंद mosses , वे  have xylem and phloem ( making them vascular plants ) .
They have stems , leaves , and  जड़ें जैसे  other vascular plants .
Ferns reproduce via spores and  have  neither seeds nor flowers .
By far the largest group of ferns is the  leptosporangiate ferns , लकिन ferns  as defined here ( also called monilophytes ) include horsetails , whisk ferns , marattioid ferns , and ophioglossoid ferns .
The  पद pteridophyte  also refers to ferns and a few other seedless vascular plants ( see classification section below ) .
Ferns first appear in the fossil record 360 million years ago in the Carboniferous but many of the current families and species did not  appear जबतक roughly 145 लाख सालो पहले in the जल्दी cretaceous ( बाद  flowering plants came to dominate many environments ) .
Ferns are not of major economic importance , but some are  grown or gathered लिये खाना , as शोभायमान  plants , for remediating contaminated soils , and have been the subject of research for their ability to remove some chemical pollutants from the air .
Some are significant  weeds  .
They  भी  play a role in mythology , medicine , and art .
चपटा roofs  in Israel
Flat roof in Los  एंजिल्स
A flat   roof is a type of covering for a building .
In contrast to the more sloped form of roof , a flat roof is  आड़ा or nearly आड़ा  .
The slope of a roof is properly known as its pitch : Roofs which are nearly flat are known as low-pitch roofs ( as the angle  of ढलान increases , so the पिच  is said to increase ) .
Any sheet of material used to cover a flat or  low-pitched छत is प्रायः ज्ञात as a झिल्ली और the प्राथमिक  purpose of these membranes is to waterproof the roof area .
Materials that cover flat roofs typically allow the water to run off from a slight inclination or   camber into a gutter system .
Water from some flat roofs such as on garden sheds  sometimes बहती freely  off the edge of a roof , though gutter systems are of advantage in keeping both walls and foundations dry .
Gutters on smaller roofs often lead water  सीधे onto the  ground , or better , into a specially made soakaway .
Gutters on larger roofs usually lead water into the  rainwater  drainage system of any built up area .
Occasionally flat roofs though are designed to collect  जल in a पूल , प्रायः  for aesthetic purposes , or for rainwater buffering .
Flat roofs exist all over the world and each  क्षेत्रफल रै इसके अपना परंपरा  or preference for materials used .
In warmer climes  जहाँ वर्षा  is less and freezing is unlikely to occur , many flat roofs are simply built of masonry or concrete and this is good at keeping out the heat of the sun and cheap and easy to build where timber is not readily available .
In areas where the roof could become saturated by rain and leak , or where water soaked into the brickwork  could फ्रीज to बर्फ और यूँ सीसे to 'blowing  ' ( breaking up of the mortar/brickwork/concrete by the expansion of ice as it forms ) these roofs are not suitable .
Traditionally most  चपटा roofs in  the western world make use of tar or more usually tar paper applied over roof decking to keep a building watertight .
The tar or tarpaper is in turn covered in gravel to  keep  the sun 's heat , UV rays and weather off it and helps protect it from cracking or blistering and degradation .
Roof decking is usually of  प्लाईवुड ,  chipboard or OSB boards ( OSB = Oriented Strand Board , also known as Sterling board ) of around 18mm thickness .
The tar coating is applied in one or more coats as a hot liquid , heated in a tar kettle , or as  चादरें of तारकोल impregnated 'paper ' चिपके bas और  sealed together at joints by hot tar - once it has cooled , the gravel is spread evenly over it .
A main reason for failure of these traditional roofs is ignorance or lack of maintenance  जहाँ लोगों or कार्यक्रम कारण the  gravel to be moved or removed from the tar or tarpaper waterproofing , thus exposing it to weather and sun whereupon cracking and blistering occurs over time and eventually water gets in .
Tarpaper is usually a 'paper ' or fibre material  soaked or  impregnated in tar .
As gravel can not protect tarpaper surfaces where they rise vertically from the roof such as on parapet walls or upstands , tarpaper variants are produced with fine gravel applied to the hot tar during the process of manufacture such that a  स्थाई  layer of gravel is stuck to it in order to give it ongoing protection .
Tarpapers   vary in quality as does the workmanship and training of those applying it to produce more or less successful results .
In some micro climates or shaded areas these rather 'basic '  tarpaper  roofs can last well in relation to the cost of materials purchase and cost of laying them , however the cost of modern membranes such as EPDM has come down over recent years to make them more and more affordable .
There are now more firms supplying modern alternatives and there is  generally  a growing awareness of their performance and availability .
If a leak does occur on a flat roof then damage often goes unnoticed for long periods of time during which water penetrates and soaks the  अलंकार और कोई  insulation and/or structure beneath it .
This can lead to expensive  क्षति इससे the दुर्गन्ध  which often develops and if left can weaken the roof structure .
There  हैं भी  various health risks to people and animals breathing the mould spores : the severity of this health risk remains a debated point .
One problem with maintaining flat roofs is that if water does penetrate the barrier covering ( be it traditional or a modern  झिल्ली  ) it can travel a long way before causing visible damage or leaking into a building where it can be seen .
Thus it is not easy to see  जहाँ it is टपकती  in order to repair it .
Once underlying roof decking is soaked it often sags  causing a further  collection or puddling of water in that area and the problem worsens .
A CD-ROM ( ) is a  pre-pressed कॉम्पैक्ट डिस्क  which contains data .
The name is an   acronym which stands for `` Compact Disc Read-only memory `` .
Computers can read CD-ROMs ,  लकिन can  not write on them .
CD-ROMs are popularly used to distribute computer software , including video games and multimedia applications , though  any data can  be stored ( up to the capacity limit of a disc ) .
Some CDs , called enhanced CDs , hold both computer data and audio with the latter capable of being played on a CD player , while data ( such as software or digital video )  is तभी usable on a कंप्यूटर ( ऐसे as आईएसओ 9660 स्वरूप  PC CD-ROMs ) .
The  पीला किताब  is the technical standard that defines the format of CD-ROMs .
One of a set of color-bound books that contain the technical specifications for  सब cd स्वरुप , the पीला किताब , निर्मित  by Sony and Philips , was the first extension of Compact Disc Digital Audio .
It adapted the format to hold any form  of आंकड़ा .
Joanne `` Jo '' Rowling ( ) , ( born 31 July 1965 ) , pen name J. K. Rowling , is a British novelist ,  बेहतरीन ज्ञात as the  author of the Harry Potter fantasy series .
The Potter books have gained worldwide attention , won multiple awards , and sold more than 400  लाख  copies .
They have become the best-selling book series  in इतिहास , और महरूम the आधार लिये  a series of films which has become the highest-grossing film series in history .
Rowling had  overall स्वीकृति on the स्क्रिप्ट  as well as maintaining creative control by serving as a producer on the final instalment .
Born in Yate , Gloucestershire , Rowling was working as a researcher and bilingual secretary for Amnesty  अंतरराष्ट्रीय जब वो conceived the विचार  for the Harry Potter series on a delayed train from Manchester to London in 1990 .
The seven-year period that followed entailed the death of her mother , divorce from her first husband and poverty until Rowling finished the first novel   in the series , Harry Potter and the Philosopher 's Stone ( 1997 ) .
Rowling subsequently published 6 sequels—the last , Harry Potter and the  deathly  Hallows ( 2007 ) —as well as 3 supplements to the series .
In 2012 , Rowling parted with her agency and resumed writing in the  रूप  of a tragicomedy novel aimed at adult readership , entitled The Casual Vacancy .
Rowling has said she is currently working on two books—one aimed for adults , the other for children younger than the Harry Potter  दर्शक , और वो expects the latter to be प्रकाशित  first .
Rowling has led a `` rags to  अमीरी `` जीवन स्टोरी  , in which she progressed from living on state benefits to multi-millionaire status within five years .
She  is the संयुक्त  Kingdom 's best-selling author since records began , with sales in excess of £238m .
The 2008 Sunday Times Rich List estimated Rowling 's fortune at £560  लाख ( $ 798 लाख ) ,  ranking her as the twelfth richest woman in the United Kingdom .
Forbes ranked Rowling as the forty-eighth most powerful celebrity of 2007 , and TIME magazine named her as a runner-up for its 2007  व्यक्ति of the साल , noting the सोशल , moral , और  political inspiration she has given her fans .
In October 2010 , Rowling was named the `` Most Influential Woman in  ब्रिटेन  '' by leading magazine editors .
She has become a notable philanthropist , supporting such charities as Comic  राहत  , One Parent Families , Multiple Sclerosis Society of Great Britain and Lumos ( formerly the Children 's High Level Group ) .
Auburndale is a city in Polk County ,  फ्लोरिडा ,  United States .
The  जनसांख्यिकी थी  11,032 at the 2000 census .
According to the U.S Census estimates of 2005  , the नगर  had a population of 12,381 .
It is part of the Lakeland – Winter Haven Metropolitan Statistical   Area .
Hurricane Isabel ( 2003 ) as seen from orbit during  expedition  7 of the International Space Station .
The eye , eyewall , and surrounding rainbands ,  विशेषताएँ of तीव्र cyclones  , are clearly visible in this view from space .
A tropical  चक्रवात is a तूफ़ान प्रणाली  characterized by a low-pressure center surrounded by a spiral arrangement of thunderstorms that produce strong winds and heavy rain .
Tropical cyclones strengthen when water evaporated from the ocean is  released as the संतृप्त एयर उदय , resulting  in condensation of water vapor contained in the moist air .
They are fueled by a  अलग  heat mechanism than other cyclonic windstorms such as nor'easters , European windstorms , and polar lows .
The characteristic that separates tropical cyclones from other cyclonic systems is that at any height in the atmosphere , the center of a  तीव्र चक्रवात होगा be warmer than इसके परिवेश  ; a phenomenon called `` warm core `` storm systems .
The term `` tropical '' refers both to the geographical origin of these systems , which usually form in tropical regions of the globe , and to their formation   in maritime tropical air masses .
The term `` cyclone '' refers to such storms ' cyclonic nature , with counterclockwise wind flow in the Northern Hemisphere and  clockwise हवा प्रवाह in the दक्षिणी गोलार्ध  .
The  विपरीत  direction of the wind flow is a result of the Coriolis force .
Depending on its location and strength , a tropical cyclone is referred to by names such as hurricane ( , ) , typhoon ( ) , tropical storm  , cyclonic तूफ़ान , तीव्र  depression , and simply cyclone .
While tropical cyclones can produce extremely powerful winds and torrential rain , they  हैं भी समर्थ to उपज ऊँची लहरें  , damaging storm surge , and tornadoes .
They develop over large bodies  of गरम जल , और खोना उनके शक्ति  if they move over land due to increased surface friction and loss of the warm ocean as an energy source .
This is why coastal regions can receive significant damage from a tropical cyclone , while  अंतर्देशीय regions हैं अपेक्षाकृत सुरक्षित इससे receiving दमदार हवाएँ  .
Heavy rains , however , can produce significant flooding inland , and storm surges can produce  extensive तटीय बाढ़ up to इससे the  coastline .
Although their effects on human populations can be devastating  , तीव्र cyclones  can relieve drought conditions .
They also carry heat energy away from the tropics and transport it toward temperate latitudes , which makes them an  महत्वपूर्ण भाग of the वैश्विक  atmospheric circulation mechanism .
As a result , tropical cyclones help to maintain  संतुलन  in the Earth 's troposphere , and to maintain a relatively stable and warm temperature worldwide .
Many tropical cyclones develop when the atmospheric conditions around a  कमजोर disturbance in the माहौल हैं अनुकूल  .
the पृष्ठभूमि पर्यावरण is modulated by climatological  cycles and patterns such as the Madden-Julian oscillation , El Niño-Southern Oscillation , and the Atlantic multidecadal oscillation .
Others form  जब अन्य प्रकार  of cyclones acquire tropical characteristics .
Tropical systems are then moved by steering winds in the troposphere  ; if the शर्तें  remain favorable , the tropical disturbance intensifies , and can even develop an eye .
On the other end of the spectrum , if the conditions around the system deteriorate or the  तीव्र चक्रवात makes landfall , the प्रणाली weakens और  eventually dissipates .
It is not possible to artificially induce the  dissipation of ये प्रणालियों  with current technology .
Kirk Douglas ( born Issur Danielovitch , ; December 9 , 1916 ) is an  अमरीकी स्टेज और फिल्मी  actor , film producer and author .
His popular films include Out of the Past ( 1947 ) , Champion ( 1949 ) , Ace in the Hole ( 1951 ) , The Bad and the Beautiful ( 1952 ) , 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea ( 1954 ) , Lust for Life ( 1956 ) , Paths of Glory ( 1957 ) , Gunfight at the O.K . Corral ( 1957 ) , The Vikings ( 1958 ) , Spartacus ( 1960 ) , Lonely Are the Brave ( 1962 ) , Seven Days in May ( 1964 ) , The  नायक of telemark ( 1965 ) और  Tough Guys ( 1986 ) .
He is No.17 on the American Film Institute 's list of the greatest male American screen legends of all  समय , बनाना उसे the highest-ranked  living person on the list .
In 1996 , he received the Academy Honorary Award  `` लिये 50 सालो as a  creative and moral force in the motion picture community . ''
He is one of the last surviving actors from Hollywood 's `` golden age  ''  .
Robert Clark `` Bob '' Seger ( born May 6 , 1945  ) is an अमरीकी  rock and roll singer-songwriter , guitarist and pianist .
As a locally successful Detroit-area artist , he performed and recorded as Bob Seger and the Last  सुना और bob seger प्रणाली  throughout the 1960s .
By  the  early 1970s , he had dropped the `` System '' from his recordings and continued to strive for broader success with other various bands .
In 1973 , he put together The Silver Bullet Band , a group of Detroit-area musicians , with whom he became most successful on the national level with the album Live Bullet ,  अंकित सजीव  with the Silver Bullet Band in 1975 at Cobo Hall in Detroit , Michigan .
In 1976 , he achieved a  नेशनल ब्रेकआउट  with the studio album Night Moves .
On his studio albums , he also  worked extensively साथ  the Alabama-based Muscle Shoals Rhythm Section , which appeared on several of Seger 's best-selling singles and albums .
A roots rocker with a classic raspy ,  चिल्लाना  voice , Seger wrote and recorded songs that dealt with love , women , blue-collar themes and was an exemplar of heartland rock .
Seger  रै अंकित अनेक हिट्स , सहित `` रात्रि  Moves , '' `` Turn the Page , '' `` We 've Got Tonight , '' `` Against the Wind , '' and Shakedown that was written for Beverly Hills Cop II and `` Like a Rock , '' and also co-wrote the Eagles ' number-one hit `` Heartache Tonight . ''
His iconic recording of  `` बूढ़ा समय चट्टान  and Roll `` was named one of the Songs of the Century in 2001 .
With a career spanning five decades , Seger continues to perform and record  आज  .
Seger was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame  in  2004 and the Songwriters Hall of Fame in 2012 .
Richard Milhous Nixon ( January 9 , 1913 – April 22 , 1994 ) was the 37th President of the   United States , serving from 1969 to 1974 , when he became the only president to resign the office .
Nixon had previously served as a Republican U.S. representative and  सीनेटर इससे कैलिफ़ोर्निया  and as the 36th Vice President of the United States from 1953 to 1961 .
Nixon was born in  yorba  Linda , California .
He graduated from Whittier  कॉलेज in 1934 और ड्यूक विश्वविद्यालयों  School of Law in 1937 , returning to California to practice law .
He and his wife , Pat Nixon , moved to Washington to work for  the संघीय सरकारी  in 1942 .
He subsequently served in the United States Navy  दौरान संसार युद्ध  II .
Nixon was elected in California to the House of  प्रतिनिधि  in 1946 and to the Senate in 1950 .
His pursuit of the Alger  hiss मामला स्थापित  his reputation as a leading anti-communist , and elevated him to national prominence .
He was the running mate  of ड्वाइट D. आइज़नहावर  , the Republican Party presidential nominee in the 1952 election .
Nixon served for eight years as vice  अध्यक्ष  .
He waged an unsuccessful presidential  अभियान in 1960 , narrowly  losing to John F. Kennedy , and lost a race for Governor of California in 1962 .
In 1968 , he  भागा again लिये the  presidency and was elected .
Although Nixon  initially escalated  America 's involvement in the Vietnam War , he subsequently ended U.S. involvement in 1973 .
Nixon 's visit to the People 's  गणतंत्र of चीन in  1972 opened diplomatic relations between the two nations , and he initiated détente and the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty with the Soviet Union the same year .
Domestically , his administration generally embraced policies that  transferred शक्ति  from Washington to the states .
Among other things , he launched initiatives to fight cancer and illegal drugs , imposed wage and price controls , enforced desegregation of some Southern schools , and established the  पर्यावरणीय सुरक्षा एजेंसी  .
हालांकि he presided over the चंद्र अवतरण शुरूआत साथ अपोलो 11 , he scaled वापस मानवयुक्त स्पेस खोजी  .
He was  re-elected by a भूस्खलन  in 1972 .
Nixon 's second term saw an Arab oil embargo  , the इस्तीफा  of his vice president , Spiro Agnew , and a continuing series of revelations about the Watergate scandal and other misconduct by members of the administration .
The scandal escalated , costing Nixon much of his political support , and on  अगस्त 9 , 1974 , he resigned  in the face of almost certain impeachment and removal from office .
After his resignation , he controversially  प्राप्त a pardon  issued by his successor , Gerald Ford .
In retirement , Nixon 's work as an elder statesman , authoring several books and undertaking many foreign trips , helped  to rehabilitate उसके पब्लिक  image .
He suffered a debilitating stroke on  अप्रैल 18 , 1994  , and died four days later at the age of 81 .
{ {  infobox  Senator
The Dominican  गणतंत्र annexation सन्धि caused कड़वा  contention between President Grant and Sen. Sumner .
Brady  1869  ] ]
Sen. Sumner , opposed to American imperialism in the Caribbean and fearful that annexation would lead to the conquest of the neighboring black republic of Haiti , became convinced that corruption lay behind the treaty , and that men close to the president shared in  the भ्रष्टाचार  .
As  अध्यक्ष of the सीनेट विदेशी  Relations Committee , Sen. Sumner initially withheld his opinion on the treaty on January 18 , 1870 .
Sen. Sumner had been leaked information from Assistant Secretary of State , Bancroft Davis , that U.S .  नवल जहाजों यहूद होने प्रयुक्त  to protect President Báez .
Sen. Sumner 's committee voted against annexation and at Sen. Sumner’s suggestion and quite possibly to save the party from an ugly fight or the president from embarrassment , the Senate held its debate of the treaty behind closed  द्वार in कार्यपालिका सत्र  .
President Grant persisted and sent messages to  कॉंग्रेस in एहसान of annexation  on March 14 , 1870 , and May 31 , 1870 .
In closed session , Sen. Sumner spoke out against the treaty ; warnng that there would be difficulty with the foreign nationals , noting the chronic rebellion that took place on the island , and the risk that the independence of  हैती , पहचाना by the संयुक्त राज्य in 1862  , would be lost .
Sumner stated that Grant 's use of the  u.S. नेवी as a  protectorate was a violation of International law and unconstitutional .
Finally , on June 30 , 1870 the treaty was voted on  by the सीनेट और विफल to  gain the required 2/3 majority for treaty passage .
the following दिन  , President Grant , feeling betrayed by Sen. Sumner , retaliated by ordering the dismissal of Sumner’s close friend J. Lothrop Motley , Ambassador to Britain .
By autumn , Sumner 's personal hostility to  the  president was public knowledge , and he blamed the Secretary of State for failing to have resigned , rather than let Grant have his way .
The two men , friends  जबतक तब ,  cooled into bitter enemies .
In December , 1870 , still fearful that  ग्रान्ट meant to acquire सेंटो डोमिंगो  somehow , Sumner gave a fiercely critical speech accusing the president of usurpation and Babcock of unethical conduct .
Already , President Grant , supported by his Secretary of State Hamilton Fish , had  initiated a अभियान to depose sumner  from the chairmanship of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee .
Although Sumner stated he was an `` Administration man '' , in addition to having stopped Grant 's Dominican  गणतंत्र सन्धि attempt , sumner था पराजित ग्रान्ट 's पूरा repeal of  the Tenure of Office Act , blocked Grant 's nomination of Alexander Stewart to U.S. Secretary of Treasury , and been a constant harassing force pushing Reconstruction policies faster than Grant had been willing to go .
Grant resented  sumner 's बड़प्पन  of manner , as well .
Told once that Sumner did not believe in the Bible  , the अध्यक्ष is supposed  to have said that he was not surprised : `` he did n't write it . ''
As the rift between Grant and Sumner increased ,  sumner’s स्वास्थ्य  began to decline .
When the 42nd U.S. Congress convened on March 4 , 1871 , Senators affiliated with President Grant , known as  ‘’new radicals’’  voted to oust Sen. Sumner from the Senate Foreign Relations Committee chairmanship .
Business ethics ( also corporate ethics ) is a form of applied ethics or professional ethics that examines ethical principles and  moral or नैतिक  problems that arise in a business environment .
It applies to all  पहलुओं of कारोबार  conduct and is relevant to the conduct of individuals and entire organizations .
Business ethics has both normative and  वर्णनात्मक  dimensions .
As a corporate  अभ्यास और  a career specialization , the field is primarily normative .
Academics attempting to understand business  बर्ताव employ वर्णनात्मक  methods .
The range and quantity of business ethical issues reflects the  बातचीत  of profit-maximizing behavior with non-economic concerns .
Interest in business ethics accelerated dramatically during the 1980s and 1990s , both within major  corporations और भीतर academia  .
For  उदाहरण , आज सबसे प्रमुख  corporations promote their commitment to non-economic values under headings such as ethics codes and social responsibility charters .
आदम स्मिथ कहा , `` लोगों  of the same trade seldom meet together , even for merriment and diversion , but the conversation ends in a conspiracy against the public , or in some contrivance to raise prices . ''
Governments use laws and regulations to point business behavior in  कया वे perceive  to be beneficial directions .
Ethics implicitly regulates areas and details of behavior that lie beyond governmental  कंट्रोल  .
The emergence of large corporations  साथ सीमित  relationships and sensitivity to the communities in which they operate accelerated the development of formal ethics regimes .
A burn is a type of injury to flesh or skin caused by heat , electricity , chemicals , friction , or  विकिरण  .
Most burns affect only the superficial skin ( known as superficial or  पहला उपाधि ) or  extend into the deeper skin but do not involve the full thickness of the skin ( known as partial thickness or second degree ) .
Rarely all layers of the skin or deeper tissues , such as muscle or bone can be injured in which case  the बर्न is either पूरा  thickness ( third degree ) or fourth degree .
The  उपचार  required depends on the severity of the burn .
Superficial burns maybe managed with little more than simple pain killers while major burns may require prolonged  उपचार in  specialized burn centers .
Cooling with tap water may aid pain and decrease damage however if exposure is  prolonged  it may result in low body temperature .
आंशिक मोटाई  burns may require cleaning with soap and water followed by dressings .
Blisters should typically  be बाएँ अखंड  .
Full thickness burns usually require  सर्जिकल उपचार ऐसे  as skin grafting and extensive burns often require large amount of intravenous fluids .
The most common complications of  burns  are related to infection .
While large burns can be fatal , modern treatments developed in the last 50 years have significantly improved the outcomes ,  विशेषकर in children  and young adults .
Globally about 11 million people seek medical treatment and 300,000 people  die  from burns .
In the  संयुक्त राज्य , of those  admitted to a burn center , approximately 4 % die from their injuries .
The long term outcome is primarily related to the size of burn and  the आयु of the व्यक्ति effected  .
The  अटलांटिक  Ocean , not including Arctic and Antarctic regions
This video was taken by  the  crew of Expedition 29 on board the ISS .
The pass  starts इससे बस north-east of the द्वीप of न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड  over the North Atlantic Ocean to central Africa , over South Sudan .
The Atlantic Ocean is the second-largest of the  संसार 's oceanic विभाजन  .
With a total area of about , it covers approximately 20 percent  of the धरती 's सतह  and about 29 percent of its water surface area .
The first part of its name refers to Atlas of Greek mythology , making  the अटलांटिक the ``  Sea of Atlas '' .
The oldest known  जिक्र of ``  Atlantic '' is in The Histories of Herodotus around 450 BC ( Hdt . 1.202.4 ) : Atlantis thalassa ( Greek : Ἀτλαντὶς θάλασσα ; English : Sea of Atlas ) .
The term Ethiopic Ocean , derived from Ethiopia , was  लागू to  the southern Atlantic as late as the mid-19th century .
Before Europeans discovered other oceans , the term `` ocean '' itself was synonymous with the waters beyond the Strait of  जिब्राल्टर कि we अभी जान  as the Atlantic .
The early Greeks believed this ocean to be  a gigantic नदी encircling the  world .
The Atlantic Ocean occupies  an elongated  , S-shaped basin extending longitudinally between Eurasia and Africa to the east , and the Americas to the west .
As one component of the interconnected global ocean , it is connected in the north to the Arctic Ocean ( which is sometimes considered a sea of  the अटलांटिक ) , to the  Pacific Ocean in the southwest , the Indian Ocean in the southeast , and the Southern Ocean in the south .
(  अन्य  definitions describe the Atlantic as extending southward to Antarctica . )
The equator subdivides it into  the उत्तर अटलांटिक  Ocean and South Atlantic Ocean .
Due to their long-term persistence , and the need for a unique identifier in issuing forecasts and warnings , tropical  cyclones और उपोष्ण cyclones हैं दिए names according to  policy ( see Tropical cyclone naming ) .
The following are lists from which these  तीव्र  and subtropical cyclone names are derived .
श्वेत लाइट is dispersed  by a prism into the colors of the optical spectrum .
The visible spectrum is the portion  of the इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक वर्णक्रम  that is visible to ( can be detected by ) the human eye .
Electromagnetic radiation in this range of wavelengths is called visible  लाइट or  simply light .
A typical human eye will respond to wavelengths from about  390 to 700  nm .
In  शर्तें  of frequency , this corresponds to a band in the vicinity of 430–790 THz .
A light-adapted eye generally has its maximum sensitivity at around 555 nm ( 540 THz ) , in  the ग्रीन प्रदेश of the ऑप्टिकल वर्णक्रम  ( see : luminosity function ) .
The spectrum does not , however , contain all the colors that the  इंसान आँखें  and brain can distinguish .
Unsaturated colors such as pink , or purple variations  such  as magenta , are absent , for example , because they can be made only by a mix of multiple wavelengths .
Colors containing only one wavelength are also  पुकारा pure  colors .
Visible wavelengths pass through  the `` ऑप्टिकल खिड़की `` , the प्रदेश  of the electromagnetic spectrum which allows wavelengths to pass largely unattenuated through the Earth 's atmosphere .
an उदाहरण of इस घटना is कि साफ  air scatters blue light more than red wavelengths , and so the midday sky appears blue .
The  ऑप्टिकल खिड़की  is also called the visible window because it overlaps the human visible response spectrum .
The  निकट इन्फ्रारेड ( nir ) खिड़की झूठ बस आउट of the इंसान  vision , as well as the Medium Wavelength IR ( MWIR ) window and the Long Wavelength or Far Infrared ( LWIR or FIR ) window though other animals may experience them .
Many species can  देखिए लाइट साथ बारंबारता  outside the `` visible spectrum , '' which is defined in terms of human vision .
Bees and many  अन्य कीट  can detect ultraviolet light , which helps them find nectar in flowers .
Plant species that depend on insect pollination may owe reproductive success to  उनके रूप in  ultraviolet light , rather than how colorful they appear to humans .
Birds , too , can see into the ultraviolet ( 300–400 nm ) , and some have  sex-dependent markings on उनके  plumage that are visible only in the ultraviolet range .
Many animals that can see into the ultraviolet range ,  however , can नहीं देखिए रेड लाइट  or any other reddish wavelengths .
Bees ' visible spectrum ends at about 590nm , just before   the orange wavelengths start .
Birds , however , can see some red wavelengths , but  नहीं  as many as humans .
Zebras ( or ) are several species of African equids ( horse family ) united by their distinctive black   and white stripes .
Their stripes come in different patterns , unique to  प्रत्येक  individual .
They are generally social animals that live in small  harems to  large herds .
Unlike their closest relatives , horses and asses , zebras have never been  truly domesticated  .
There are  तीन प्रजाति  of zebras : the plains zebra , the Grévy 's zebra and the mountain zebra .
The plains  जेब्रा और the पहाड़ जेब्रा  belong to the subgenus Hippotigris , but Grévy 's zebra is the sole species of subgenus Dolichohippus .
The latter resembles an ass , to which it is  closely सम्बन्धित  , while the former two are more horse-like .
All three belong to the genus Equus , along with other  जीना equids  .
The  अद्वितीय धारियाँ of zebras मेक  them one of the animals most familiar to people .
They occur in a variety of habitats , such as grasslands  , savannas , वुडलैंड्स ,  thorny scrublands , mountains , and coastal hills .
however ,  various anthropogenic factors have had a severe impact on zebra populations , in particular hunting for skins and habitat destruction .
Grévy 's zebra and the mountain zebra are  endangered  .
While plains zebras are much more plentiful ,  एक subspecies , the quagga , became विलुप्त in the  late 19th century – though there is currently a plan , called the Quagga Project , that aims to breed zebras that are phenotypically similar to the quagga in a process called breeding back .
Barry  श्वेत  , born Barry Eugene Carter ( – ) , was an American composer and singer-songwriter .
A two-time  ग्रैमी पुरस्कार -winner ज्ञात लिये उसके distinctive बास आवाज़ और रोमांटिक चित्र , श्वेत 's महानतम कामयाबी आए in the 1970s as a सोलो सिंगर और साथ the प्रेम असीमित ऑर्केस्ट्रा , crafting अनेक enduring आत्मा , दुर्गंध , और डिस्को गीतों ऐसे as उसके दो biggest हिट्स , `` तुम 're the पहला , the पिछला , my सबकुछ `` और `` ca n't मिलेंगी पर्याप्त of अपना प्रेम , बेब . ''
Along with Isaac Hayes ,  श्वेत is  considered by Allmusic.com as a pioneer of disco music in the early 1970s .
During the  कोर्स of उसके करियर in the म्यूज़िक कारोबार  , White achieved 106 gold albums worldwide , 41 of which also attained platinum status .
White had 20 gold and 10 platinum singles , with worldwide sales in excess of 100 million , according to  आलोचकों ed होगन और वेड  Kergan .
His influences included  Rev  . James Cleveland , Ray Charles , Aretha Franklin plus Motown artists The Supremes , The Four Tops and Marvin Gaye .
Angelina Jolie  ( , born एंजेलीना  Jolie Voight ; June 4 , 1975 ) is an American actress , film director , and screenwriter .
She has received an Academy Award , two Screen Actors Guild Awards , and three Golden Globe Awards , and was named  हॉलीवुड  's highest-paid actress by Forbes in 2009 and 2011 .
Jolie promotes  humanitarian कल्याणकारी , और  is noted for her work with refugees as a Special Envoy and former Goodwill Ambassador for the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees ( UNHCR ) .
वो रै प्रायः महरूम cited as the संसार 's `` सबसे खूबसूरत '' स्त्री , a शीर्षक लिये जिससे वो रै प्राप्त substantial  media attention .
Jolie  बना उसके स्क्रीन डेब्यू  as a child alongside her father Jon Voight in Lookin ' to Get Out ( 1982 ) , but her film career began in earnest a decade later with the low-budget production Cyborg 2 ( 1993 ) .
Her first  अग्रणी  role in a major film was in the cyber-thriller Hackers ( 1995 ) .
She starred in the critically acclaimed biographical television films George Wallace (  1997 ) और gia ( 1998 ) , और जीती an अकादमी  Award for Best Supporting Actress for her performance in the drama Girl , Interrupted ( 1999 ) .
Jolie achieved wide fame after her portrayal of video game heroine Lara Croft in Lara Croft : Tomb Raider ( 2001 ) , and established herself among the  highest-paid  actresses in Hollywood with the sequel The Cradle of Life ( 2003 ) .
She continued her action star career with Mr. & Mrs. Smith ( 2005 ) and Wanted ( 2008 ) —her biggest non-animated commercial successes to date—and received further critical acclaim for her performances in the dramas A Mighty Heart ( 2007 ) and Changeling ( 2008 ) , which earned her a nomination for an Academy Award  for Best  Actress .
जोली बना उसके  directorial debut with the wartime drama In the Land of Blood and Honey ( 2011 ) .
Divorced from actors Jonny Lee  मिलर और बिली  Bob Thornton , Jolie now lives with actor Brad Pitt , in a relationship notable for fervent media attention .
जोली और pitt have  three biological children and three adopted children .
A natural arch produced by the  अपरदन of differentially  weathered rock in Jebel Kharaz , Jordan
Erosion is the process by which soil and rock are removed from the Earth 's surface by exogenetic processes such as wind or  जल प्रवाह , और तब transported और  deposited in other locations .
जबकि अपरदन is a प्राकृतिक  process , human activities have increased by 10-40 times the rate at which erosion is occurring globally .
Excessive erosion causes problems such as desertification , decreases in agricultural productivity due to  जमीन degradation  , sedimentation of waterways , and ecological collapse due to loss of the nutrient rich upper soil layers .
Water and wind erosion are now the two primary causes of land degradation  ; combined , they  are responsible for 84 % of degraded acreage , making excessive erosion one of the most significant global environmental problems .
Industrial agriculture ,  वनों , सड़कें , anthropogenic जलवायु  change and urban sprawl are amongst the most significant human activities in regard to their effect on stimulating erosion .
However , there are many available alternative land use practices that can curtail or limit erosion , such as terrace  -building , no-till  agriculture , and revegetation of denuded soils .
Jersey Shore is an American reality television series which ran on MTV  इससे दिसम्बर 3 , 2009 to दिसम्बर 20 , 2012  in the United States .
The series follows  the जीवनदान of आठ  housemates spending their summer at the Jersey Shore in the U.S. state of New Jersey .
Season 2 followed the cast escaping the cold northeast winter to Miami Beach , with Season 3 returning to the  जर्सी shore  .
The fourth season ,  फिल्माया  in Italy , premiered on August 4 , 2011 .
The show returned for a fifth  ऋतु , at  Seaside Heights on January 5 , 2012 .
The fifth season finale aired on  कूच  15 , 2012 .
On March 19 , 2012  , एमटीवी पुष्टि  that the series would return for their sixth season .
on अगस्त 30  , 2012 , MTV announced that the series will end after the sixth season , which premiered on October 4 .
The series finale aired  on दिसम्बर  20 , 2012 .
The show debuted amid large amounts of controversy regarding the use of the words ``  guido  / Guidette , '' portrayals of Italian-American stereotypes , and scrutiny from locals because the cast members were not residents of the area .
The series garnered  रिकार्ड दरजा लिये एमटीवी , बनाना  it the network 's most viewed series telecast ever .
The series '  डाल  have also been credited with introducing unique lexicon and phrases into American popular culture .
The University of Chicago and the  विश्वविद्यालयों of ओक्लाहोमा हैं among the शैक्षणिक  institutions that have had classes or conferences about the show .
In 2010 , the cast of Jersey  shore थी नामित on बारबरा  Walters ' 10 Most Fascinating People list , and the series has since been exported to dozens of countries worldwide .
There are several remakes of the show in other  देशों , साथ  two set in the United Kingdom ; the well known Geordie Shore , set in Newcastle upon Tyne , England .
The other is The   Valleys , the Welsh equivalent , which is filmed and set in Cardiff .
The only other official remake of  the दिखाएँ is  Gandía Shore , set in Gandía , Spain .
सही
United States territory is any extent of region under the jurisdiction of the federal government of the United States , including all waters ( around islands or  महाद्वीपीय  tracts ) and all U.S . Naval vessels .
The United States has traditionally proclaimed the sovereign rights for exploring ,  exploiting , conserving  , and managing its territory .
This extent of territory is all the area belonging to , and under the dominion of  , the संयुक्त राज्य संघीय सरकारी ( जिससे  includes tracts lying at a distance from the country ) for administrative and other purposes .
The  संयुक्त राज्य  total territory includes a subset of political divisions .
The U.S. government is a government  साथ  delegated powers under the United States Constitution .
`` The powers not delegated to the United  राज्य by the  Constitution , nor prohibited by it to the States , are reserved to the States respectively , or to the people '' by the Tenth Amendment .
Terminator 3 : Rise of the Machines ( commonly abbreviated as T3 ) is a 2003 science  fiction कार्रवाई फिल्मी  directed by Jonathan Mostow and starring Arnold Schwarzenegger , Nick Stahl , Claire Danes and Kristanna Loken .
It is the second sequel to The  टर्मिनेटर  ( 1984 ) .
After Skynet fails to kill Sarah Connor before her son is born and to kill John himself as a child , it sends back another Terminator , the T-X , in an attempt to wipe out as many Resistance  अधिकारियों as संभावित  .
This includes John 's  भविष्य बीवी , लकिन  not John himself as his whereabouts are unknown to Skynet .
John 's life is placed  in  danger when the T-X accidentally finds him .
A cord  of  wood
The cord is a unit of measure of dry volume used in Canada and the United   States to measure firewood and pulpwood .
A cord is the amount of wood that , when `` ranked and  खूब stowed '' ( arranged so टुकड़े हैं  aligned , parallel , touching and compact ) , occupies a volume of .
This corresponds to a well  stacked woodpile ऊँची , long  , and deep ; or any other arrangement of linear measurements that yields the same volume .
The name cord probably comes from the use of a  cord or स्ट्रिंग  to measure it .
The , is an 8-bit handheld video game device developed  और manufactured  by Nintendo .
It was released in  जापानी on , in  North America in , and in Europe on .
It is the first handheld console in  the खेल लड़के लकीर , और  was created by Gunpei Yokoi and Nintendo Research & Development 1 —the same staff who had designed the Game & Watch series as well as several popular games for the Nintendo Entertainment System .
Redesigned versions were released in 1996 and 1998 , in the  रूप of खेल लड़के  Pocket , and Game Boy Light ( Japan only ) , respectively .
The Game Boy is Nintendo 's second handheld system following the Game & Watch series introduced in , and it combined features  इससे दोनो the निन्टेंडो entertainment प्रणाली  and Game & Watch .
It was  originally  bundled with the puzzle game Tetris .
As part of the fourth generation of gaming , the Game  लड़के competed साथ the sega  Game Gear , Atari Lynx , and the TurboExpress .
Despite these other technologically superior  हैंडहेल्ड  consoles , the Game Boy was a tremendous success .
The Game Boy and its successor ,  the खेल लड़के रंग  , have both combined sold 118.69 million units worldwide .
Upon its release in the United States , it sold its entire shipment of one million units   within weeks .
The World Trade Center is a complex of buildings under construction in Lower Manhattan , New York City , United States , replacing an earlier  जटिल of सात  buildings with the same name on the same site .
The original World Trade Center featured landmark twin towers , which opened on April 4 , 1973 and were  नष्ट in the सितंबर 11 हमले  of 2001 , along with 7 World Trade Center .
The other  buildings  in the complex were damaged in the attacks , and their ruins were eventually demolished .
The site is being rebuilt with five new skyscrapers  और a मेमोरियल to  those killed in the attacks .
, only one skyscraper has been completed ; the other four are expected  to be समाप्त पहले  2020 .
One  संसार व्यापार बीच होगा be the  lead building for the new complex , reaching more than 100 stories at its completion .
It became the tallest building in New York City on April 30 , 2012 , and is expected to be  समाप्त by  2013 .
A  छठे  tower is awaiting confirmation .
At the time of their completion , the original 1 World Trade Center ( the North Tower ) and 2 World Trade Center ( the South Tower ) , known collectively  as the `` जुड़वा  Towers '' , were the tallest buildings in the world .
The other buildings included 3 WTC ( the  मैरियट संसार व्यापार  Center ) , 4 WTC , 5 WTC , 6 WTC , and 7 WTC .
All of these  इमारतें  were built between 1975 and 1985 .
The cost for the construction was   $ 400 million ( $ in dollars ) .
The complex was located in the heart of New  यॉर्क नगर 's शहर  financial district and contained 13.4 million square feet ( 1.24 million m2 ) of office space .
The  संसार व्यापार बीच  experienced a fire on , 1975 , a bombing on , 1993 and a robbery on , 1998 .
In 1998 , the Port Authority decided to privatize the World Trade Center , leasing  the इमारतें to a निजी  company to manage , and awarded the lease to Silverstein Properties in .
On the morning of September 11 , 2001  , Al-Qaeda  -affiliated hijackers flew two Boeing 767 jets into the complex , one into each tower , in a coordinated terrorist attack .
After burning for 56 minutes , the South Tower ( 2 ) collapsed , followed a half-hour later by the North Tower (  1 ) , with the attacks on  the World Trade Center resulting in 2,753 deaths .
Falling debris from the towers , combined  साथ फ़ायर कि the मलबा initiated in अनेक surrounding इमारतें , led to the आंशिक or पूरा पतन  of all the other buildings in the complex and caused catastrophic damage to ten other large structures in the surrounding area .
The process of cleanup and recovery at  the संसार  Trade Center site took eight months .
Over the  following सालो  , plans for a rebuilt World Trade Center took form .
The first  new  building at the site was 7 World Trade Center , which opened in .
The Lower Manhattan Development Corporation ( LMDC ) , established in to oversee the rebuilding process ,  व्यवस्थित  competitions to select a site plan and memorial design .
Memory Foundations , designed by Daniel Libeskind , was selected as the master  योजना , लकिन इस गई through substantial  changes in design .
The new  संसार  Trade Center complex will include One World Trade Center , three other high-rise office towers , and the National September 11 Memorial & Museum .
San  जिबरील  Mountains
San Bernardino Mountains , with Mt . San Gorgonio  in the अग्रभूमि  and Big Bear Lake in the background .
The  अनुप्रस्थ सीमाएँ हैं a  group of mountain ranges of southern California , in the Pacific Coast Ranges physiographic region in North America .
The  अनुप्रस्थ सीमाएँ शुरू  at the southern end of the California Coast Ranges and lie between Santa Barbara and San Diego counties .
They derive the name  अनुप्रस्थ  Ranges due to their East-West orientation , making them transverse to the general North-South orientation of most of California 's coastal mountains .
Periodic table with electron  शेल
An electron shell may be thought of as an orbit followed by  electrons around an  atom 's nucleus .
The closest shell to the nucleus is called the `` 1 shell '' ( also called `` K shell '' ) , followed by the `` 2 shell '' ( or `` L shell '' ) , then the `` 3 shell '' ( or `` M shell '' )  , और so on दूर और  farther from the nucleus .
The shell letters  k , l , m , ...  , used in the X-ray notation , are alphabetical .
Each shell can contain  तभी a फिक्स्ड क्रमांक of electrons  : The 1st shell can hold up to two electrons , the 2nd shell can hold up to eight electrons , the 3rd shell can hold up to 18 , and 4th shell can hold up to 32 and so on .
Since electrons are electrically  आकर्षित to the केंद्रक ,  an atom 's electrons will generally occupy outer shells only if the more inner shells have already been completely filled by other electrons .
However , this is not a strict requirement : Atoms may have  दो or  even three incomplete outer shells .
( See Madelung rule for more  विवरण .  )
For an explanation  of क्यों electrons मौजूद in  these shells see electron configuration .
The electrons in  the outermost occupied शेल  ( or shells ) determine the chemical properties of the atom ; it is called the valence shell .
Each shell consists of one or  अधिक subshells , और  each subshell consists of one or more atomic orbitals .
Vickie Lynn Marshall ( née Hogan ;  नवम्बर 28 ,  1967 – February 8 , 2007 ) , known by her moniker Anna Nicole Smith , was an American model , actress , and television personality .
Smith first gained popularity in Playboy , becoming the  1993 संगिनी of  the Year .
She modeled for clothing companies , including Guess jeans  और  Lane Bryant .
Smith  dropped आउट  of high school and was married in 1985 .
Her highly publicized second marriage to oil business  mogul , J. हावर्ड मार्शल , 62 सालो उसके  senior , resulted in speculation that she married the octogenarian for his money , which she denied .
Following Marshall 's  मौत , स्मिथ  began a lengthy legal battle over a share of his estate .
उसके मामला , मार्शल v. मार्शल , पहुँचे the u.S. परम् अदालत on a सवाल of संघीय क्षेत्राधिकार , और again on a सवाल of दिवालियापन अदालत प्राधिकार ( अभी पुकारा stern v. मार्शल ) .
स्मिथ died on फ़रवरी 8 , 2007 in  a Hollywood , Florida hotel room as a result of an overdose of prescription drugs .
Within the final six months of her life , Smith was the focus of a renewed press coverage surrounding the death of her son , Daniel , and the paternity  और कस्टडी  battle over her newborn daughter , Dannielynn .
The is  एक denomination  of Japanese yen .
The current design was first minted   in 1959 using Japanese characters known as the `` new script `` , and were also minted from 1949-1958 using `` old-script '' Japanese characters .
Five-yen coins date to 1870 ( when , due  to the  much higher value of the yen , they were minted in gold ) .
The front of the coin depicts a rice plant growing out of the water , with `` five yen '' written in kanji ; the back is  stamped साथ `` जापानी '' और the साल of समस्या , भी in कांजी , अलग by sprouts  of a tree .
The three graphic elements  of  the coin represent agriculture and fisheries , the key elements of the Japanese first-sector economy .
Around a hole , there is a gear that  represents उद्योग  .
It is the only Japanese coin in circulation to lack  अरबी numerals  on either face .
TLC is an American girl group whose repertoire spanned R  & b , हिप हॉप , आत्मा  , funk , and new jack swing .
Originally consisting of singer Tionne `` T-Boz '' Watkins , rapper Lisa `` Left Eye '' Lopes  और सिंगर  Rozonda `` Chilli '' Thomas , the group found unprecedented success in the 1990s while also enduring a series of spats with the law , each other , and the group 's record label .
Initially , TLC achieved  वाणिज्यिक  success following the release of their debut album Ooooooohhh ...
On the TLC Tip , which sold 6 million  नक़ल विश्वव्यापी .
However ,  it थी उनके  second album , CrazySexyCool , that catapulted the group to superstar status .
CrazySexyCool went on to be certified diamond by the RIAA — a first for a female group  , और  eventually sold 23 million copies worldwide .
Five years later , the group released their third album FanMail , which became the group 's first album to debut at number one and sold  अधिक than 11 लाख  copies worldwide .
The subsequent tour following FanMails release became the highest grossing tour of all time by  a मादा  band .
In 2002 , Lisa `` Left Eye '' Lopes died in a car accident in  होंडुरास  .
Seven months later , T-Boz and Chilli released the group 's fourth album 3D , which sold 2  लाख नक़ल विश्वव्यापी  , it featured unreleased vocals from Left Eye .
बिलबोर्ड पत्रिका  ranked TLC as one of the greatest musical trios .
Between 1992 and 2003 , the band accumulated ten top ten singles , four number one singles ,  चार multi-platinum एल्बम , और चार  Grammy Awards .
At the end of 1999 , TLC was ranked as  the सातवाँ सबसे कामयाब  act of the 1990s by Billboard .
In 2008 ,  the समूह थी inducted  into the All Time Hot 100 Artist Hall of Fame by the same magazine , at 56th place .
That year it  थी भी सूचीबद्ध  as the # 25 R & B/hip-hop artist of the preceding 25 years .
TLC has sold more than 65 million  रिकॉर्ड विश्वव्यापी और वे हैं क्रमित  as the second best selling female group of all time , and the best selling female R & B group of all time .
In 2012 , TLC ranked 12th on VH1 's 100 Greatest Women in Music , being ranked the number one all girl  समूह  on that list .
Tarzan is a 1999 American animated adventure film produced by Walt Disney Feature Animation and distributed by  वॉल्ट  Disney Pictures .
The 37th film in the Walt Disney Animated Classics , it is based on the story Tarzan of the Apes by Edgar Rice Burroughs , and is the only major motion picture  संस्करण of the स्टोरी  Tarzan property to be animated .
Directed by Chris  buck और केविन लीमा साथ a पटकथा by tab  Murphy , Bob Tzudiker , and Noni White , Tarzan features the voices of Tony Goldwyn , Minnie Driver , Glenn Close , and Rosie O'Donnell with Brian Blessed , Lance Henriksen , Wayne Knight , and Nigel Hawthorne .
It was the last bona fide hit  पहले the  Disney slump of the early 2000s grossing $ 171,091,819 domestically and $ 448,191,819 worldwide , outgrossing its predecessors Hercules ( 1997 ) and Mulan ( 1998 ) .
At the time of its release , its production budget of $ 130 million made  it the सबसे महंगी  animated film ever made , until topped by Disney 's own $ 140 million Treasure Planet in 2002 .
It was also the first Disney animated feature to  खोलें at # 1 चूंकि  Pocahontas .
This was the last major box office  कामयाबी of the  Disney Renaissance .
Oil Platform P-51 off the  ब्राज़ीलियाई  coast is a semi-submersible platform .
आयल मंच  Mittelplate in the North sea
An oil platform , ( offshore platform or colloquially oil rig ) is a large structure with facilities to drill  कुएं  , to extract and process oil and natural gas , and to temporarily store product until it can be brought to shore for refining and marketing .
in अनेक  cases , the platform contains facilities to house the workforce as well .
Depending  on the  circumstances , the platform may be fixed to the ocean floor , may consist of an artificial island , or may float .
Remote subsea  कुएं  may also be connected to a platform by flow lines and by umbilical connections .
These subsea solutions may consist of one or more subsea wells , or of one or  अधिक manifold केंद्रों लिये अनेक  wells .
Slaughter is the killing of animals ,  प्रायः कि of घरेलू  livestock for food .
The animals most commonly slaughtered for food are cattle , water buffalo ( for beef and veal ) , sheep , goats ( for lamb and mutton ) , pigs ( for pork ) , horses ( for horse meat ) , and fowl , largely  मुर्गियों , turkeys , और बतखों और increasingly मछली इससे the aquaculture उद्योग ( मछली  farming ) .
The White House , the president 's official residence and center of the  प्रशासन
Under the United States Constitution ,  the अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य  is the head of state and head of government of the United States .
As chief of the executive branch and head of the federal  सरकारी as a पूरे  , the presidency is the highest political office in the United States by influence and recognition .
The president is also the  commander-in-chief  of the United States Armed Forces .
The president is indirectly elected to a four-year term by an Electoral College ( or by the House of Representatives should the Electoral  कॉलेज  fail to award an absolute majority of votes to any person ) .
Since the ratification of the Twenty-second Amendment to the United  राज्य संविधान in 1951 , no व्यक्ति may be निर्वाचित अध्यक्ष अधिक than twice ,  and no one who has served more than two years of a term to which someone else was elected may be elected more than once .
Upon the death , resignation , or removal from  दफ्तर of an लाज़िम अध्यक्ष  , the Vice President assumes the office .
The President must be at least 35 years of age and a ``  प्राकृतिक born '' नागरिक  of the United States .
This list includes only those persons who were sworn into office as  अध्यक्ष following the अनुसमर्थन of  the United States Constitution , which took effect on March 4 , 1789 .
For  अमरीकी  leaders before this ratification , see President of the Continental Congress .
The  सूची करता नहीं शामिल कोई  Acting Presidents under the Twenty-fifth Amendment to the United States Constitution .
There have been 43 people sworn into office , and 44 presidencies , as Grover Cleveland served two non-consecutive terms and is counted  क्रमबद्धता as दोनो the 22nd  and 24th president .
Of the individuals elected as president , four died in office of natural causes ( William Henry Harrison , Zachary Taylor , Warren G. Harding , and Franklin D. Roosevelt ) , four were  assassinated (  Abraham Lincoln , James A. Garfield , William McKinley , and John F. Kennedy ) and one resigned ( Richard Nixon ) .
George Washington , the first president , was inaugurated in  1789 बाद  a unanimous vote of the Electoral College .
William Henry Harrison spent the shortest time  in  office with 32 days in 1841 , and Franklin D. Roosevelt spent the longest with over twelve years , but died shortly into his fourth term in 1945 .
He is the only president to serve more than two  शर्तें , और a संवैधानिक amendment  , affecting presidents after Harry Truman , was passed to limit the number of times an individual can be elected president .
Andrew Jackson , the seventh president ,  थी the पहला to be  elected by men of all classes in 1828 after most laws barring non-land-owners from voting were repealed .
Warren Harding was the first elected after  महिलाओं gained  voting rights in 1920 .
History records four  राष्ट्रपतियों – जॉन q  Adams , Rutherford B. Hayes , Benjamin Harrison and George W. Bush – who lost the popular vote but assumed office .
जॉन  F. Kennedy has been the only president of Roman Catholic faith , and the current president , Barack Obama , is the first president of African descent .
Several firearms with detachable suppressors , from top to bottom : An Uzi , An AR-15 , A Heckler & Koch USP  रणनीतिक , a beretta 92fs , और a  SIG Mosquito .
bolt कार्रवाई  rimfire rifle with suppressor
awm-f स्निपर  rifle with attached suppressor .
A suppressor , sound suppressor , or sound moderator , is a device attached to or part of the barrel of a firearm which reduces the amount of noise , and usually the amount of muzzle  फ्लैश , उत्पन्न  by firing the weapon .
A suppressor can be used both  साथ a firearm  and with compressed air gun .
Though it is sometimes referred to  as a silencer , इस पद is a misnomer popularized by  cinematic fiction : the sound of a projectile , especially one moving faster than the speed of sound , through the air can not be eliminated .
Using a suppressor in long distance shooting ( i.e . greater than 300 meters ) can lessen , or retard , the report at the moment of impact , and create the impression of silence near  the  target .
The noise heard near the muzzle as a projectile leaves the barrel , though subdued , is not  मूक at  all .
A suppressor is usually a metal cylinder with internal mechanisms to reduce the sound of firing by  slowing the escaping propellant  gas and sometimes by reducing the velocity of the bullet .
Early  suppressors यहूद  created around the beginning of the 20th century by several inventors .
American inventor Hiram Percy Maxim ( not to be confused with Hiram Stevens Maxim , Hiram Percy 's father , and the inventor  of the कहावत  Machine Gun ) , is credited with inventing and selling the first commercially successful models circa 1902 ( patented 30 March 1909 ) .
कहावत दिया  his device the trademarked name Maxim Silencer .
The  मफलर लिये आतंरिक दहन इंजन थी  developed in parallel with the firearm suppressor by Maxim in the early 20th century , using many of the same techniques to provide quieter-running engines ( in many European countries automobile mufflers are still called silencers ) .
The word silencer in reference to gun suppressor remains in widespread use , although it has since fallen out of favor with some , especially among the  firearms उद्योग  , being replaced with the more literally accurate term sound suppressor or just suppressor , because a `` sound suppressor '' does not `` silence '' any weapon , rather it eliminates muzzle flash and reduces the sonic pressure of a firearm discharging .
Common usage and U.S. legislative  भाषा एहसान the  historically earlier term , silencer .
In U.S. law , the terms `` firearm muffler '' and `` firearm silencer '' are  synonymous  .
Suppressors were regularly  प्रयुक्त by  agents of the United States Office of Strategic Services , who favored the newly designed High Standard HDM .22 Long Rifle pistol during World War II .
OSS Director William Joseph `` Wild Bill '' Donovan  demonstrated the पिस्टल लिये अध्यक्ष  Franklin D. Roosevelt at the White House .
According to OSS research chief Stanley Lovell , Donovan ( an old and trusted friend of the President ) was waved into the Oval Office , where Roosevelt   was dictating a letter .
While Roosevelt finished his message , Donovan turned his   back and fired ten shots into a sandbag he had brought with him , announced what he had done and handed the smoking gun to the astonished president .
The British SOE ( Special Operations Executive )  welrod  assassination pistol with an integral suppressor was also used by the American OSS on clandestine operations in Nazi occupied Europe during the Second World War .
Beatrice `` Bea '' Arthur ( May 13 ,  1922 – अप्रैल 25 , 2009 ) थी an अमरीकी  actress , comedienne , and singer whose career spanned seven decades .
आर्थर हासिल कीर्ति as  the character Maude Findlay on the 1970s sitcoms All in the Family and Maude , and as Dorothy Zbornak on the 1980s sitcom The Golden Girls , winning Emmy Awards for both roles .
A stage actress both before and after her television success , she won the Tony Award for Best Featured Actress in a Musical for her performance  as वीरा चार्ल्स  in the original cast of Mame ( 1966 ) .
is a 2011 Japanese 3D computer-animated film based on the Tekken video game series , produced by Digital Frontier and distributed by Asmik Ace Entertainment  in association with  Bandai Entertainment .
The film  premiered in उत्तर अमेरिका by  Bandai Entertainment on July 26 , 2011 , and in Australia on July 27 , 2011 in a special exclusive one-off screening .
It was released on September 3 , 2011 in  जापानी .
The film was released on Blu-ray Disc on  नवम्बर  22 , 2011 for USA , and December 1 , 2011 for Japan .
This film was also   released on DVD on November 22 , 2011 ( 2D Version only ) .
The  फिल्मी थी additionally शामिल साथ the प्लेस्टेशन  3 game , Tekken Hybrid , and the Nintendo 3DS title , Tekken 3D : Prime Edition .
For a discussion of  nonprofit  , voluntary neighborhood advocacy groups , see neighborhood association .
In the United States , a homeowner association is a corporation formed by a real estate developer for the purpose of marketing , managing , and selling of homes and lots in a  आवासीय subdivision  .
It grants the developer privileged voting rights in governing the association , while allowing the developer to exit financial and legal responsibility of the organization ,  typically by transferring स्वामित्व of the संघ  to the homeowners after selling off a predetermined number of lots .
Membership in the homeowners  संघ by a आवासीय खरीदार is typically a कंडीशन  of purchase ; a buyer is n't given an option to reject it .
Most homeowner associations are incorporated , and are subject to state  statutes  that govern non-profit corporations and homeowner associations .
State oversight of homeowner associations is minimal , and mainly takes the form of laws which are inconsistent from state to state  .
Some states , such as Florida and California , have a large body of   homeowner association law , and some states , such as Massachusetts , have virtually no homeowner association law .
The fastest growing form of housing in the United States today is common-interest developments ( CIDs ) , a category that  शामिल planned-unit developments of single-family  homes , condominiums , and cooperative apartments .
Since 1964 , homeowner associations have become increasingly common   in the USA .
The Community Associations Institute trade association estimated that HOAs governed 24.8 million  अमरीकी घरों और  62 million residents in 2010 .
A prize-winning lilac-and-white  silkie
There are many breeds of Guinea pig which have been developed since its domestication ca . 5000  bc  .
Breeds vary widely in appearance  और purpose ,  ranging from show breeds with long , flowing hair to those in use as model organisms by science .
From ca . 1200 AD  to  the Spanish conquest of the Inca Empire in 1532 , selective breeding by indigenous South American peoples resulted in many varieties of domestic Guinea pigs , which form the basis for some of the modern domestic breeds .
Early Andean breeds were primarily kept as agricultural stock for food , and  प्रयत्न at improving the गिनी सुअर as a खाना  source continue to the modern era .
With the export of Guinea pigs to Europe in the  15th सदी , the  goal in breeding shifted to focus on the development of appealing pets .
To this  समाप्त , विभिन्न  competitive breeding organizations were founded by fanciers .
The American Cavy Breeders Association , an adjunct to the American Rabbit Breeders Association , is the governing body in  the  United States and Canada .
The British Cavy  परिषद governs  cavy clubs in the United Kingdom .
Similar organizations  exist in  Australia ( Australian National Cavy Council ) and New Zealand ( New Zealand Cavy Club ) .
Each club publishes its own Standard of Perfection and determines which breeds are  योग्य लिये प्रर्दशित  .
New breeds continue to  emerge in  the 21st century .
Though there are many breeds of Guinea pig , only a few breeds are commonly  मिला on the दिखाएँ तालिका as  pets .
Most Guinea pigs found as pets were either found undesirable by breeders or were bred to be  सुखद पालतु regardless of कैसा  well they meet the breed standard of perfection .
The short hair , Abyssinian , Peruvian and Sheltie ( aka  silkie ) breeds हैं  those most frequently seen as pets , and the former three are the core breeds in the history of the competitive showing of Guinea pigs .
In addition  to  their standard form , nearly all breeds come in a Satin variant .
Satins , due to their hollow hair shafts ,  possess coats  of a special gloss and shine .
However , there is growing evidence that the genes   responsible for the Satin coat also can cause severe bone problems , including Osteodystrophy and Paget 's disease .
Showing Satin variations is prohibited by some cavy breeders ' associations because of animal welfare  कारण  .
All  cavy breeds have कुछ साझा  general standards : the head profile should be rounded , with large eyes and large , smooth ears .
The body should be strong and of compact  निर्माण  .
Coat colour should in all  विसंगतियाँ be  clearly defined and thorough from root to tip .
These  मानकों  are best met by long established , commonly bred breeds , as their breeders have had enough time and animals to effectively breed for these qualities .
The coat colour ideal of good definition and thoroughness is rarely met by other than the smooth coated breeds , which have had well established ,  पृथक प्रजनन लाइनों लिये अलग  colours .
State schools ( also known as public schools or government schools ) generally refer to primary or secondary schools  mandated लिये or offered to  all children without charge paid for , in whole or in part , by taxation .
The  पद may  also refer to institutions of post-secondary education funded , in whole or in part , and overseen by government .
The ribosome assembles polymeric protein molecules whose  अनुक्रम is  controlled by the sequence of messenger RNA molecules .
This  is जरूरी  by all living cells and associated viruses .
the राइबोसोम ( इससे ribonucleic एसिड और the यूनानी सोम , अर्थ `` देह  '' ) is a large and complex molecular machine , found within all living cells , that serves as the primary site of biological protein synthesis ( translation ) .
Ribosomes link amino  acids साथ in  the order specified by messenger RNA ( mRNA ) molecules .
Ribosomes  consist  of two major subunits—the small ribosomal subunit reads the mRNA , while the large subunit joins amino acids to form a polypeptide chain .
Each subunit   is composed of one or more ribosomal RNA ( rRNA ) molecules and a variety of proteins .
The sequence of DNA encoding for a protein may be copied many times into messenger RNA ( mRNA  ) जंजीरों  of a similar sequence .
Ribosomes can bind to an mRNA chain and use it as a  टेम्पलेट लिये  determining the correct sequence of amino acids in a particular protein .
Amino acids are selected , collected and carried to the ribosome by transfer RNA ( tRNA molecules ) , which  डालें एक  part of the ribosome and bind to the messenger RNA chain .
The attached amino  acids हैं तब  linked together by another part of the ribosome .
Once the protein is produced , it can then 'fold ' to produce a specific functional  three-dimensional ढांचा  .
A ribosome is made from complexes of RNAs and proteins and is therefore a   ribonucleoprotein .
Each ribosome is divided into two subunits : the smaller subunit binds to the mRNA pattern  , while the larger  subunit binds to the tRNA and the amino acids .
When a ribosome finishes reading an  mrna अणु ,  these two subunits split apart .
Ribosomes are ribozymes , because the catalytic peptidyl transferase activity that links  अमीनो  acids together is performed by the ribosomal RNA .
Ribosomes from bacteria , archaea and eukaryotes ( the three domains of life on Earth ) differ in their size , sequence , structure ,  और the अनुपात  of protein to RNA .
The differences in structure allow  कुछ  antibiotics to kill bacteria by inhibiting their ribosomes , while leaving human ribosomes unaffected .
In bacteria and archaea , more than one ribosome may move along a single mRNA chain at one time , each `` reading '' its sequence and producing a  सम्बन्धित प्रोटीन अणु  .
The ribosomes in the mitochondria of  eukaryotic कोशिकाएं functionally  resemble many features of those in bacteria , reflecting the likely evolutionary origin of mitochondria .
Albert Claude , Christian de Duve , and George Emil Palade were jointly awarded the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine , in  1974 , लिये the डिस्कवरी of the  ribosomes .
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 2009 was  awarded to venkatraman रामकृष्णन  , Thomas A. Steitz and Ada E. Yonath for determining the detailed structure and mechanism of the ribosome .
The  सरलीकृत आतंरिक  structure of a chloroplast
Overview  of the calvin साईकिल  and carbon fixation
the light-independent  reactions of photosynthesis are chemical reactions that convert carbon dioxide and other compounds into glucose .
These reactions occur in the stroma , the  fluid-filled क्षेत्रफल of a हरितलवक  outside of the thylakoid membranes .
These reactions take  the light-dependent प्रतिक्रियाएँ  and perform further chemical processes on them .
There are three phases to the light-independent reactions , collectively called the Calvin cycle  : कार्बन fixation , कटौती  reactions , and ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate ( RuBP ) regeneration .
Despite its name ,  इस प्रक्रम  occurs only when light is available .
Plants do not  carry आउट the  Calvin cycle by night .
They , instead , release  sucrose into the फ्लोएम इससे  their starch reserves .
This process happens when light is  उपलब्धियाँ स्वतंत्र  of the kind of photosynthesis ( C3 carbon fixation , C4 carbon fixation , and Crassulacean Acid Metabolism ) ; CAM plants store malic acid in their vacuoles every night and release it by day in order to make this process work .
In mathematics , a square number or perfect square is an integer that is the  वर्गाकार of an पूर्णांक ;  in other words , it is the product of some integer with itself .
For example , 9 is a square number , since it  can be लिखा as  .
The usual notation for the formula for the square of  a क्रमांक is नहीं  the product , but the equivalent exponentiation , usually pronounced as `` squared '' .
The name  वर्गाकार क्रमांक  comes from the name of the shape ; see below .
Square numbers are  non-negative  .
Another way of saying that a (  non-negative ) क्रमांक  is a square number , is that its square roots are again integers .
For example , = ±3  , so 9 is  a square number .
A positive integer that  रै no  perfect square divisors except 1 is called square-free .
For a non-negative integer , the th  वर्गाकार क्रमांक is , साथ  being the zeroth square .
The concept of square can be extended to some  अन्य  number systems .
If rational numbers are included , then a square is the ratio of  दो वर्गाकार integers , और , conversely , the अनुपात of दो  square integers is a square ( e.g. , 4/9 = ( 2/3 ) 2 ) .
Starting with 1 , there are square numbers up to and including ,  जहाँ the अभिव्यक्ति represents  the floor of the number .
The Era of Good Feelings marked a period in the political history of the United States that reflected a sense of national  purpose और a ख्वाहिश लिये एकता among अमेरिकी  in the aftermath of the Napoleonic Wars .
The era saw the collapse of the Federalist Party and an end to the bitter partisan disputes between it  और the प्रबल  Democratic-Republican party during the First Party System .
President  जेम्स मुनरो endeavored to downplay  partisan affiliation in making his nominations , with the ultimate goal of national unity and eliminating parties altogether from national politics .
The period is so closely associated with Monroe 's presidency ( 1817–1825 ) and his administrative goals  कि उसके नाम  and the era are virtually synonymous .
The Era of Good Feelings marked a transition in American politics with the end of  the federalist पार्टी as अमेरिका began  to develop after the War of 1812 .
While America was experiencing   growth and prosperity after the war with Britain , this era also marks the first instance of economic troubles in the growing United States .
Mirroring the American System proposed by Henry Clay , protective tariffs and the  chartering of the दूसरी बैंको  of the United States complicated the tension between the North and South with the coming of the first financial crisis .
While the  पद “era of शुभ feelings” is प्रायः viewed साथ  irony because of the political turmoil , economic factors caused animosity between the North and South .
The designation of the period by historians as one of “good feelings” is often conveyed with irony or skepticism , as the history  of the era थी एक  in which the political atmosphere was strained and divisive , especially among factions within the Monroe administration and the Republican Party .
The phrase “Era of Good Feelings” was coined by Benjamin Russell , in the Boston Federalist newspaper , Columbian Centinel , on July 12 , 1817 , following Monroe 's visit to  बोस्टन , मैसाचुसेट्स as भाग of  his good will tour of America .
Mariel Margaret `` Mia '' Hamm ( born March 17 , 1972 ) is a retired American professional  सॉकर खिलाड़ी .
Hamm played many years as a forward for the United States women 's national soccer team and was a  founding सदस्य  of the Washington Freedom .
Hamm scored 158 international goals , more than any other player , male or female , in the history of soccer and is the third most capped female player in soccer history behind  kristine लिली और क्रिस्टी rampone , appearing in 275 अंतरराष्ट्रीय  matches .
Hamm was named the women 's FIFA World Player of the Year the first two times that award was given ( in  2001 and 2002 ) , and  is listed as one of FIFA 's 125 best living players ( as chosen by Pelé ) .
She was inducted into the National Soccer Hall of Fame as well as the Alabama Sports Hall of  कीर्ति और टेक्सास खेल हॉल of कीर्ति  .
She is the author of Go For the Goal : A Champion 's Guide to Winning in Soccer and Life and  appeared in the एचबीओ वृत्तचित्र हिम्मत  to Dream : The Story of the U.S. Women 's Soccer Team .
Washington Post columnist Michael Wilbon called Hamm , `` Perhaps the  सबसे महत्वपूर्ण खिलाड़ी  of the last 15 years . ''
Hamm takes  a  corner kick .
The New York Red Bulls is an American professional soccer team based in  हैरिसन  , New Jersey , representing the New York metropolitan area .
The  टोली competes  in the Eastern Conference of Major League Soccer ( MLS ) .
It is one  of the टेन चार्टर  clubs of MLS , having competed in the league since its inception .
The team was a founding  सदस्य  of MLS ( 1996 ) , but has gone through several name changes .
The team was originally known as the New  york/new जर्सी  MetroStars through 1997 .
From the 1998 season through the 2005 season , the team was known as the  metrostars  .
On March 9 , 2006 , the team was sold to Red Bull GmbH  , अग्रणी to the  team 's current name .
They are the only original MLS franchise not to  have जीती कोई  significant trophy ( including regular season , playoffs , and knockout competition ) since inception .
The team 's best result in the MLS was the  mls  Cup final in 2008 .
In the US Open  कप , the metrostars  reached three semifinals ( 1997 , 1998 , 2000 ) , before reaching their first final in 2003 , losing 1–0 to the Chicago Fire .
On August 26 ,  2000 , the metros ' क्लिंट mathis  set an MLS record by scoring five goals in a game against the Dallas Burn .
Some well-known players that have played for the team include Giovanni Savarese , Tim Howard , Tony Meola , Tab Ramos , Alexi Lalas , Clint Mathis , Jozy Altidore , Michael Bradley , Claudio Reyna , Eddie Pope , Roberto Donadoni , Lothar Matthäus , Adolfo Valencia , Youri Djorkaeff , Amado Guevara , Juan Pablo Ángel , Thierry Henry , Juninho Pernambucano ,  जन गुन्नार solli  , Rafael Márquez , and Tim Cahill .
The team has also had well-known coaches , including  कार्लोस queiroz  , Carlos Alberto Parreira , Bora Milutinović , Bob Bradley , Mo Johnston , Bruce Arena and Hans Backe .
Confucianism , Taoism , and Buddhism are one , a painting in the litang style portraying three men laughing by  a नदी स्ट्रीम ,  12th century , Song Dynasty .
Estimating the number of Buddhists in the world , or in many countries , is difficult due to definitional issues as well as practical problems  of  enumeration .
To begin with , the religious beliefs , practices , and identities of East Asians ( who comprise the  बहुमत of the संसार 's बौद्धों by कोई माप ) प्रायः मिश्रण buddhism साथ अन्य परंपराओं  including Confucianism , the Chinese folk religion , Daoism , Shinto , and Korean shamanism .
Most followers of Buddhism do not belong to structured congregations , or observe a definite  अनुष्ठान of adherence ऐसे as लेने  Refuge , making it difficult to accurately estimate the number of practitioners .
An additional challenge is the  दुश्मनी  of several national governments ( often Communist ones such as China or North Korea ) to religion generally or to Buddhism specifically .
Government policies in these countries may encourage the under-reporting or non-reporting of  धार्मिक adherence , resulting  in official totals that may drastically underestimate the number of religious practitioners in these countries .
Estimate of the  विश्वव्यापी बौद्ध जनसांख्यिकी  range from 350 million to over one billion , but cluster nearer to the first figure .
adherents.com  ( as of 2012 ) suggests a figure of 397 million .
By major  शाखाओं  , the numbers are as follows:
( 1 ) Mahayana Buddhism , including East Asian Buddhism , with no fewer than 185 million adherents , and possibly several  टाइम्स कि  many ( again , depending on definitional issues ) .
This is the  predominant रूप of buddhism  practiced in China , South Korea , Japan , Taiwan , Singapore , and Vietnam .
( 2 ) Theravada Buddhism ,  साथ no कम  than 125 million adherents .
This is the predominant form of Buddhism practiced in Cambodia , Thailand  , Laos , Sri  Lanka , and Burma .
( 3 )  वज्रयान buddhism , साथ  approximately 20 million adherents .
इस रूप predominates  in the greater Tibetan and Mongolian regions , as well as in the Himalayas .
Besides the independent countries of Mongolia and Bhutan , and various  territories भीतर कया is अभी पश्चिमी चीन , वज्रयान is परंपरागत to निश्चित  regions of Russia ( e.g . Kalmykia , Buryatia ) , India ( e.g . Ladakh , Sikkim ) , and Nepal ( e.g . Khumbu ) .
Vajrayana , also known as Tibetan Buddhism , is often conflated with Tantric Buddhism , but this is imprecise , as Shingon and  अन्य फ़ॉर्म of ईस्ट एशियाई buddhism भी  practice tantra .
At least 7 countries ( Sri Lanka , Thailand , Cambodia , Laos , Burma , Bhutan , and Mongolia )  have unambiguous बौद्ध  majorities .
Depending on how one calculates Chinese and other East  एशियाई adherents , इस फिगर  might expand to include several more countries .
In addition , Buddhism is the  राज्य धर्म of कंबोडिया और भूटान ,  and receives prominent mention in the constitutions of Thailand and Sri Lanka .
In  उत्तरी इण्डिया और नेपाल , the जमीन  where Buddhism was born , the religion severely declined during the first millennium .
Whether this decline was due to the Islamic conquest of  उत्तरी इण्डिया , or to  other factors , remains controversial .
देखिए the आलेख  Decline of Buddhism in India .
James Butler Hickok ( May 27   , 1837 – August 2 , 1876 ) , better known as Wild Bill Hickok , was a folk hero of the American Old West .
His skills as a gunfighter and scout , along with his  प्रतिष्ठा as a  lawman , provided the basis for his fame , although some of his reported exploits are fictionalized .
Born and raised on a farm in rural Illinois , Hickok went west at age  18 as a भगोड़े इससे इंसाफ ,  first working as a stagecoach driver , before he became a lawman in the frontier territories of Kansas and Nebraska .
He fought for the Union Army during the American Civil War , and gained publicity after the war as a scout , marksman ,  कर्ता ,  and professional gambler .
Between his law-enforcement duties and gambling , which easily overlapped  ,  Hickok was involved in several notable shootouts .
He was shot and killed while playing poker in the Nuttal & Mann 's  सैलून in deadwood , डकोटा  Territory ( now South Dakota ) .
Artist 's conception of the Curiosity rover  vaporizing चट्टान on मंगल  .
The rover landed on Mars in  अगस्त  2012 .
A Mars rover is an automated motor vehicle which propels itself  आरपार the  surface of the planet Mars after landing .
Rovers have several advantages over stationary landers : they examine more territory , they can be directed to interesting features , they can place themselves in sunny positions  to मौसम शीत महीने और वे can अग्रिम the ज्ञान  of how to perform very remote robotic vehicle control .
There   have been four successful robotically operated Mars rovers .
The Jet Propulsion Laboratory managed the Mars  pathfinder मिशन और इसके  now inactive Sojourner rover .
It currently  manages the  Mars Exploration Rover mission 's active Opportunity rover and inactive Spirit , and , as part of the Mars Science Laboratory mission , the Curiosity rover .
A financial audit , or  अधिक accurately  , an audit of financial statements , is the verification of the financial statements of a legal entity , with a view to express an audit opinion .
The audit opinion is intended to provide reasonable assurance , but not absolute assurance , that the financial statements are presented fairly , in all material respects , and/or give a true and  मेला दृश्य in accordance  with the financial reporting framework .
The purpose of an audit is provide and objective independent  परिक्षा of the वित्तीय कथन , जिससे increases the मान और विश्वसनीयता  of the financial statements produced by management , thus increase user confidence in the financial statement , reduce investor risk and consequently reduce the cost of capital of the preparer of the financial statements .
Financial audits are typically performed by firms of  practicing लेखपाल जो हैं विशेषज्ञ  in financial reporting .
The financial audit is one of many assurance  कृत्यों provided  by accounting firms .
Many organizations separately employ or hire internal auditors ,  जो do नहीं attest to  financial reports but focus mainly on the internal controls of the organization .
External auditors may choose  to  place limited reliance on the work of internal auditors .
Auditing promotes transparency and accuracy in the financial disclosures made by an organization , therefore would likely to reduce of such  corporations  to conceal unscrupulous dealings .
Internationally , the International Standards on Auditing ( ISA ) issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board ( IAASB ) is considered as the  बेंचमार्क लिये ऑडिट  process .
Almost all jurisdictions require auditors to  follow the isa or a लोकल विभिन्नता  of the ISA .
Dollar coins have been minted in the United States in  gold  , silver , and base metal versions .
The term silver dollar is often used for any large white metal coin issued by the United  राज्य साथ a फेस मान of एक डालर , हालांकि  purists insist that a dollar is not silver unless it contains some of that metal .
Silver dollars , the first dollar coin issue , were minted  शुरूआत in 1794  .
सुनहरा डॉलर और gold-colored  dollars have also been produced by the United States .
The Sacagawea and Presidential  डॉलर हैं प्रायः  referred to as `` golden dollars '' .
In  आधुनिक टाइम्स , डालर सिक्के  have not been very popular in the United States .
Despite efforts by the government to promote their use  , सबसे अमेरिकी  currently use the one dollar bill rather than dollar coins .
In straight and  स्तर उड़ान  lift ( L ) equals weight ( W ) .
In a banked turn of 60° , lift equals double the weight (  l=2w ) .
The pilot experiences 2g and a doubled  वज़न  .
the steeper  the bank , the greater the g-forces .
This top-fuel dragster can accelerate from  शून्य  to in 0.86 seconds .
This  is a आड़ा त्वरण of  5.3 g. Combined with the vertical g-force in the stationary case the Pythagorean theorem yields a g force of 5.4 g .
g-force ( with g from gravitational ) is a term for accelerations felt as weight and measurable by accelerometers   .
It is not a force , per se , but a force per unit mass  .
Since such a force is perceived as a weight , any g-force can be described as  a `` वज़न प्रति ईकाई द्रव्यमान '' (  see the synonym specific weight ) .
The g-force acceleration acts as a multiplier of weight-like forces for every unit of an object 's mass , and ( save for certain   electromagnetic force influences ) is the cause of an object 's acceleration in relation to free-fall .
This acceleration  अनुभवी by an ऑब्जेक्ट is  due to the vector sum of non-gravitational forces acting on an object free to move .
The accelerations that are not produced by gravity  हैं termed  proper accelerations , and it is only these that are measured in g-force units .
They cause  तनावों  and strains on objects .
Because  of  these strains , large g-forces may be destructive .
Gravitation acting alone does not produce a g-force ,  भी हालांकि g-forces हैं  expressed in multiples of the acceleration of a standard gravity .
Thus , the standard gravitational acceleration at the Earth 's surface produces g-force only  indirectly , as a  result of resistance to it by mechanical forces .
The 1 g-force on an object sitting on the Earth 's surface is caused by  mechanical फ़ोर्स exerted in the upward दिशा  by the ground , keeping the object from going into free-fall .
The upward force from the ground ensures that an object at rest on the Earth 's surface is accelerating relative to the free-fall condition ,  जिससे is the पाथ कि the ऑब्जेक्ट होता follow  when falling freely toward the Earth 's center .
Objects  अनुमत to  free-fall in an inertial trajectory under the influence of gravitation-only , feel no g-force .
This is demonstrated by the `` zero-g '' conditions inside a freely falling  लिफ्ट  falling toward the Earth 's center ( in vacuum ) , or ( to good approximation ) conditions inside a spacecraft in Earth orbit .
These are  उदाहरण of निर्देशांक त्वरण (  a change in velocity ) without a sensation of weight .
The  अनुभव of no g-force  ( zero-g ) , however it is produced , is synonymous with weightlessness .
In the absence of gravitational fields , or in directions at right angles to them ,  उचित  and coordinate accelerations are the same , and any coordinate acceleration must be produced by a corresponding g-force acceleration .
An example  यहाँ is a प्रक्षेपास्त्र in फ़्री स्पेस  , in which simple changes in velocity are produced by the engines , and produce g-forces on the rocket and passengers .
An augur holding a  lituus , the curved  wand often used as a symbol of augury on Roman coins
The augur was a priest and official in  the शास्त्रीय संसार  , especially ancient Rome and Etruria .
His main role was to interpret the will of the gods by studying the flight of birds : whether they are flying in groups or alone , what noises they make as they fly ,  दिशा of उड़ान  and what kind of birds they are .
This was known as `` taking the  auspices .  ''
The ceremony and function of the augur was  सेंट्रल to कोई  major undertaking in Roman society—public or private—including matters of war , commerce , and religion .
The Roman historian Livy stresses  the महत्व  of the augurs : `` Who does not know that this city was founded only after taking the auspices , that everything in war and in peace , at home and abroad , was done only after taking the auspices ? ''
farmington पहाड़ियाँ is  an affluent community in southeastern Michigan .
It is the second  largest  city in Oakland County in the U.S. state of Michigan .
Its population was 79,740 at   the 2010 census .
It is part  of the upscale  northwestern suburbs of Metropolitan Detroit and is also northeast of downtown Ann Arbor .
Farmington Hills consistently ranks as one of the safest cities in the United States , as well  as in the  state of Michigan .
In 2010  , the क्षेत्रफल  ranked as the 30th safest city in America .
Although the two cities have separate  सेवाएं  and addresses , Farmington and Farmington Hills are often thought of as the same community .
Features of the community include a recently  संवर शहर  , boutiques , a vintage cinema , numerous restaurants , exotic car dealerships , art galleries , and public parks including Heritage Park .
There are several historical sites including the  longacre हाउस और the राज्यपाल  Warner Mansion .
Both  शहरों हैं  served by Farmington Public Schools .
Farmington Hills serves as a major  कारोबार बीच  for the greater Detroit area .
present-day  impression of a Late Bronze Age seal
Town seal (  मेट्रिक्स  ) of Náchod from 1570
A seal is a device for making an impression in wax , clay , paper , or some other medium , including an embossment on paper , and is also  the छाप यूँ  made .
The original  purpose  was to authenticate a document , a wrapper for one such as a modern envelope , or the cover of a container or package holding valuables or other objects .
The sealing process is essentially that of a mould , with the final image represented on the device for making the impression by a mirror-image  डिज़ाइन , incised in  sunken- ( or counter- ) relief or intaglio .
The seal-making device is also referred to as the seal matrix or die ; the imprint it  creates as the मुहर छाप ( or  , more rarely , the sealing ) .
If the impression is made purely as a relief resulting from the greater pressure on the paper where the  ऊँची भाग of the मेट्रिक्स टच , the मुहर is ज्ञात as a शुष्क मुहर  ; in all other cases a liquid or liquified medium ( such as ink or wax ) is used , usually in another color than the paper .
For legal purposes , the definition of  a मुहर may be विस्तारित  to include rubber stamps , or writing specified words ( `` seal '' or `` L.S . `` ) .
In the  संयुक्त राज्य , the शब्द `` मुहर '' is sometimes आबंटित  to a facsimile of the seal design ( in monochrome or color ) , which may be used in a variety of contexts including architectural settings , on flags , or on official letterheads .
Thus , for  उदाहरण , the ग्रेट मुहर  of the United States , among other uses , appears on the reverse of the one-dollar bill ; and several of the seals of the U.S. states appear on their respective state flags .
In Europe , although coats of arms and heraldic badges may well feature in such contexts as well as on seals , the seal design in its  entirety rarely  appears as an emblem .
The study of seals is known as  sigillography or sphragistics  .
Groundhog Day (  पेन्सिलवेनिया जर्मनी : grundsaudaag  , Murmeltiertag ) is a day celebrated on February 2 .
According to folklore , if it is cloudy when a groundhog emerges from its burrow on this day , then spring will come early ; if it is sunny , the groundhog will supposedly see its shadow and retreat back into   its burrow , and the winter weather will continue for six more weeks .
Modern customs of the holiday involve celebrations where early morning festivals are held to  देखें the groundhog उभरते इससे इसके  burrow .
In southeastern Pennsylvania , Groundhog Lodges ( Grundsow Lodges ) celebrate the holiday with  fersommlinge , सोशल कार्यक्रम in जिससे खाना is परोसा , भाषणों  are made , and one or more g'spiel ( plays or skits ) are performed for entertainment .
The Pennsylvania German dialect is the only language spoken at  the इवेंट , और those जो बोलो अंग्रेज़ी अदा a दंड , प्रायः in the  form of a nickel , dime , or quarter per word spoken , with the money put into a bowl in the center of the table .
The largest  groundhog दिन जश्न  is held in Punxsutawney , Pennsylvania .
Groundhog Day , already a widely recognized and  लोकप्रिय परंपरा , प्राप्त फैली ध्यान as  a result of the 1993 film Groundhog Day , which was set in Punxsutawney , PA ( though filmed primarily in Woodstock , IL ) and portrayed Punxsutawney Phil .
High resolution image of Tampa Bay  प्रदेश
The Tampa Bay area has a humid subtropical climate ( Koppen Cfa ) , with warm and humid summers with frequent thunderstorms and drier  सर्दियों साथ जमने temperatures occurring प्रत्येक  2–3 years .
The area experiences a significant summer wet season , as nearly  two-thirds  of the annual precipitation falls in the months of June through September .
The area is listed by the United  राज्य विभाग of कृषि  ( USDA ) as being in hardiness zone 10 , which is about the northern limit of where coconut palms and royal palms can be grown .
Highs usually range between 65 and 95 °F ( 18 and  35 °c ) साल  round .
Though known for hot summers , Tampa 's official high has  never  reached 100 °F ( 38 °C ) – the city 's all-time record temperature is 99 °F ( 37 °C ) .
st. पीटर्सबर्ग  's all-time record high is exactly 100 °F ( 38 °C ) .
Pinellas County lies on  a प्रायद्वीप  between Tampa Bay and the Gulf of Mexico , and much of the city of Tampa lies on a smaller peninsula jutting out into Tampa Bay .
This proximity to  विशाल लाशें of जल  both moderates temperatures and introduces large amounts of humidity into the atmosphere .
In general , the local communities farthest from   the coast have larger temperature ranges , both during a single day and throughout the seasons of the year .
A diagram of  the  electromagnetic spectrum , showing various properties across the range of frequencies and wavelengths
The  इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक वर्णक्रम is  the range of all possible frequencies of electromagnetic radiation .
The `` electromagnetic spectrum '' of an object has a different  अर्थ , और is बजाय the characteristic  distribution of electromagnetic radiation emitted or absorbed by that particular object .
The electromagnetic spectrum extends from below the low  बारंबारता प्रयुक्त लिये आधुनिक रेडियो संचार to गामा विकिरण  at the short- wavelength ( high-frequency ) end , thereby covering wavelengths from thousands of kilometers down to a fraction of the size of an atom .
The limit for long wavelengths is the size of the universe itself ,  जबकि it is  thought that the short wavelength limit is in the vicinity of the Planck length , although in principle the spectrum is infinite and continuous .
Most parts of the electromagnetic spectrum are used in science for spectroscopic and other probing interactions ,   as ways to study and characterize matter .
In addition , radiation  इससे विभिन्न भाग of the वर्णक्रम  has found many other uses for communications and manufacturing ( see electromagnetic radiation for more applications ) .
लेजेंड
Franklin Delano Roosevelt ( or ; January 30 , 1882 – April 12 , 1945 ) , also known by his initials , FDR , was the 32nd President of the United States ( 1933–1945 ) and a central figure in world events during the mid-20th century ,  अग्रणी the संयुक्त राज्य दौरान a समय of विश्वव्यापी आर्थिक अवसाद और कुल  war .
A dominant leader of the Democratic Party and the only  अमरीकी अध्यक्ष निर्वाचित  to more than two terms , he built a New Deal Coalition that realigned American politics after 1932 , as his domestic policies defined American liberalism for the middle third of the 20th century .
With the bouncy popular song `` Happy Days Are Here Again `` as his campaign theme , FDR defeated  लाज़िम रिपब्लिकन हर्बर्ट हूवर in  November 1932 , at the depth of the Great Depression .
Energized by his personal victory over  पोलियो  , FDR 's unfailing optimism and activism contributed to a renewal of the national spirit .
He worked closely with British Prime Minister Winston Churchill and Soviet General Secretary Joseph Stalin in  अग्रणी the allies विरूद्ध जर्मनी और जापानी in संसार  War II , and restoring prosperity to the nation 's economy .
In his first  सौ दिनों in दफ्तर , जिससे began कूच 4 , 1933 , रूज़वेल्ट पथप्रदर्शन प्रमुख विधान और  issued a profusion of executive orders that instituted the New Deal —a variety of programs designed to produce relief ( government jobs for the unemployed ) , recovery ( economic growth ) , and reform ( through regulation of Wall Street , banks and transportation ) .
The economy improved rapidly from 1933 to 1937 , but then relapsed into a deep  मंदी  .
The bipartisan Conservative Coalition that formed in 1937 prevented his packing the Supreme Court  or गुजर कोई considerable विधान  ; it abolished many of the relief programs when unemployment diminished during World War II .
Most of the regulations on business were ended  परिचय  1975–85 , except for the regulation of Wall Street by the Securities and Exchange Commission , which still exists .
Along with several smaller programs , major surviving programs include the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation  ,  which was created in 1933 , and Social Security , which Congress passed in 1935 .
As World War II loomed after 1938 , with the Japanese invasion of  चीन और the आक्रामकता of नाजी जर्मनी  , FDR gave strong diplomatic and financial support to China and Great Britain , while remaining officially neutral .
His goal was to  मेक अमेरिका the ``  Arsenal of Democracy `` which would supply munitions to the Allies .
In March 1941 , Roosevelt , with Congressional  स्वीकृति  , provided Lend-Lease aid to the countries fighting against Nazi Germany with Britain .
With very strong national support , he made war on Japan and Germany after the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor on December 7 , 1941 ,  कॉलिंग it a  `` date which will live in infamy `` .
He  पर्यवेक्षित  the mobilization of the U.S. economy to support the Allied war effort .
As an active military leader , Roosevelt implemented an overall war strategy on two fronts that ended in the defeat of  the अक्ष शक्तियां और the विकास of the संसार 's  first atom bomb .
In 1942 Roosevelt ordered the internment of 100,000 Japanese  अमरीकी  civilians .
Unemployment dropped to 2  % , राहत कार्यक्रम largely ended , और the औद्योगिक  economy grew rapidly to new heights as millions of people moved to new jobs in war centers , and 16 million men and 300,000 women were drafted or volunteered for military service .
Roosevelt dominated the American political scene not only during the  बारह सालो of उसके प्रेसिडेंसी  , but also for decades afterward .
He  orchestrated the  realignment of voters that created the Fifth Party System .
FDR 's New Deal Coalition united labor unions , big city machines , white ethnics , African Americans  और ग्रामीण श्वेत southerners  .
He also   influenced the later creation of the United Nations and Bretton Woods .
Roosevelt is consistently rated by  विद्वानों as एक of the शीर्ष तीन u.S. राष्ट्रपतियों  , along with Abraham Lincoln and George Washington .
A liberal Democrat , Roosevelt  पारिभाषित उसके वैचारिक  position as `` a little left of center . ''
A Joint Committee is a term in politics that is used to refer to a committee made up of  सदस्यों of दोनो कक्षों of  a bicameral legislature .
In other  contexts  , it refers to a committee with members from more than one organization .
The regulation  of वेश्यावृति in the संयुक्त राज्य is नहीं among the enumerated शक्तियां of  the federal government ; Under the Tenth Amendment to the United States Constitution , it is therefore exclusively the domain of the states to permit , prohibit , or otherwise regulate commercial sex , except insofar as Congress may regulate it as part of interstate commerce with laws like the Mann Act .
In most states , prostitution is considered a  misdemeanor  in the category of public order crime , a crime that disrupts the order of a community .
It was at one time  माना to be  a vagrancy crime .
फिलहाल , नेवाडा is the तभी राज्य to allow वेश्यालय  prostitution , the terms of which are stipulated in the Nevada Revised Statutes .
तभी 8  counties currently contain active brothels .
All forms of prostitution are illegal in Clark County ( which contains the Las Vegas–Paradise metropolitan area ) , Washoe County ( which contains Reno ) , Carson  नगर , डगलस काउंटी ,  and Lincoln County .
The other counties theoretically allow brothel prostitution , but  कुछ  of these counties currently have no active brothels .
Street prostitution , `` pandering , '' and living off of  the proceeds of a वेश्या  remain illegal under Nevada law , as elsewhere in the country .
As with other countries , prostitution in the United States can be divided into three broad categories : street  वेश्यावृति , वेश्यालय वेश्यावृति ,  and escort prostitution .
The national flag of the United States of America , often simply referred to as the American flag , consists of thirteen equal horizontal stripes of red ( top and bottom ) alternating  with white , with a  blue rectangle in the canton ( referred to specifically as the `` union '' ) bearing fifty small , white , five-pointed stars arranged in nine offset horizontal rows of six stars ( top and bottom ) alternating with rows of five stars .
The 50 stars on the flag represent the 50 states of the United States of America and the 13 stripes represent the thirteen British colonies that declared independence from the Kingdom of Great Britain   and became the first states in the Union .
Nicknames for the flag include the `` Stars and Stripes '' ,  `` बूढ़ा महिमा  `` , and `` The Star-Spangled Banner . ''
India is a federal union of states  comprising twenty-eight  states and seven union territories .
the राज्य और territories  are further subdivided into districts and so on .
Congressional districts for the 113th United  राज्य कॉंग्रेस
2010  जनसांख्यिकी  change:
Change in apportionment of congressional districts ,  starting in 2013 , as  a result of the 2010 census .
2000 Census  change:
Change in apportionment of  congressional जिले  , from 2003 to 2013 , as a result of the 2000 census .
This   is a complete list of congressional districts for representation in the United States House of Representatives .
the मात्रा ( apportionment ) और सीमाएँ ( redistricting ) of जिले हैं संकल्पित बाद प्रत्येक जनसांख्यिकी , हालांकि in कुछ मामले राज्य have बदला the सीमाएँ अधिक than एकबार प्रति जनसांख्यिकी .
This list includes the 435  वर्तमान और over  200 obsolete districts .
For example  , चूंकि the 2000 जनसांख्यिकी , नेब्रास्का  has had three districts , but it used to have as many as six .
In  the  first decade of the twenty-first century , Texas had 32 districts , but has since added four due to reapportionment as a result of the 2010 census .
Other states have lost  जिले चूंकि the  number of congressional seats has been set at 435 by statute .
Also included here are  non-voting delegations : छह  current and four obsolete .
The boundaries of districts   often shift with each redistricting .
Over time , the region and demographics represented in a district can change   substantially .
Furthermore ,  जिले sometimes  retain the same boundaries while changing their district numbers .
Mariah Carey ( born March 27 , 1970 ) is an American singer , songwriter , record producer  , अभिनेत्री , और लोकसेवक  .
Under the guidance of Columbia Records executive Tommy Mottola , Carey released her self-titled debut studio album Mariah Carey in 1990 ; it went multi-platinum and spawned four consecutive number one singles on  the u.s . बिलबोर्ड hot 100 चार्ट  .
Following  उसके विवाह to mottola in 1993 और कामयाबी साथ hit रिकॉर्ड भाव  ( 1991 ) , Music Box ( 1993 ) , and Merry Christmas ( 1994 ) , Carey was established as Columbia 's highest-selling act .
Daydream ( 1995 ) made music  इतिहास जब इसके दूसरी सिंगल `` एक मीठी दिन `` ,  a duet with Boyz II Men , spent a record sixteen weeks on top of the Billboard Hot 100 , and remains the longest-running number-one song in U.S. chart history .
During the recording of the album , Carey  began to deviate  from her R & B and pop beginnings and slowly traversed into hip hop .
This musical change became  evident साथ the रिलीज of तितली  ( 1997 ) , at which time Carey had separated from Mottola .
कैरी बाएँ कोलंबिया in 2000 , और हस्ताक्षरित a record-breaking $ 100 लाख रिकॉर्डिंग अनुबंध साथ वर्जिन रिकॉर्ड  .
Before the release of her  पहला विशेषता फिल्मी glitter  ( 2001 ) , she suffered a physical and emotional breakdown and was hospitalized for severe exhaustion .
Following the film 's poor reception , she was bought out of her recording contract for $ 50 million ,  जिससे led to a मनाही  in her career .
She signed a multi-million dollar contract deal with Island Records in 2002 , and after an  unsuccessful काल , लौटे  to the top of music charts with The Emancipation of Mimi ( 2005 ) .
Its second single `` We Belong Together `` became her most successful single of the 2000s , and was later  नामित ``  Song of the Decade '' by Billboard .
Carey once again ventured into film with a well-received starring role in ( 2009 ) ; she was awarded the ``  भेदन प्रदर्शन पुरस्कार '' at the ताड़ स्रोतों  International Film Festival , and Black Reel and NAACP Image Award nominations .
In a career spanning over two decades , Carey has sold more than 200 million records worldwide   , making her one of the best-selling music artists of all time .
In 1998  , वो  was honored as the world 's best-selling recording artist of the 1990s at the World Music Awards .
Carey was also named the  best-selling मादा कलाकार  of the millennium in 2000 .
According to the Recording Industry Association of America , she is the third best-selling female artist in the United  राज्य , साथ 63.5 लाख certified  albums .
साथ the रिलीज of `` टच my देह `` ( 2008 ) , कैरी gained उसके eighteenth क्रमांक एक सिंगल in the संयुक्त राज्य , अधिक than कोई अन्य सोलो कलाकार  .
In 2012 , Carey was  क्रमित दूसरी  on VH1 's list of the `` 100 Greatest Women in Music '' .
Aside from her commercial accomplishments , Carey has won five Grammy Awards , 17 World Music Awards , 11  अमरीकी म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार  , and 31 Billboard Music Awards .
Referred to as the ``  songbird परम् '' by the  Guinness World Records , she is famed for her five-octave vocal range , power , melismatic style and signature use of the whistle register .
Stratocumulus  stratiformis  cumulogenitus
In meteorology  , a बादल is a दृश्य  mass of liquid droplets or frozen crystals made of water or various chemicals suspended in the atmosphere above the surface of a planetary body .
These  निलंबित अणु  are also known as aerosols .
बादल in धरती 's माहौल  are studied in the cloud physics branch of meteorology .
Two processes , possibly acting together , can  सीसे to एयर  becoming saturated ; cooling the air or adding water vapor to the air .
In general , precipitation will fall to the  सतह ; an एक्सेप्शन  is virga , which evaporates before reaching the surface .
The international cloud classification system is based on the fact clouds in their most basic forms can show free-convective upward growth like cumulus , appear in non-convective  परतदार चादरें  such as stratus , or take the form of thin fibrous wisps , as in the case of cirrus .
Prefixes are used in connection with clouds to express variations or complexities in these  मौलिक फ़ॉर्म or to बताएँ मध्य  or high altitude ranges .
These include strato- for low clouds with limited convection that form mostly in uneven layers ,  cumulo- लिये जटिल highly-convective तूफ़ान  clouds , nimbo- for thick layered clouds of some complexity that can produce moderate to heavy precipitation , alto- for middle clouds , and cirro- for high clouds ; the latter two of which may be of simple or moderately complex structure .
Whether or not a cloud is  कम ,  middle , or high level depends on how far above the ground its base forms .
Cloud types with significant vertical extent  can  form in the low or middle altitude ranges depending on the moisture content of the air .
Clouds in the troposphere have Latin names due to the popular adaptation of Luke Howard 's cloud categorization system  ,  which began to spread in popularity during December 1802 .
Synoptic surface weather observations use code numbers to record and report the types of tropospheric cloud visible at each scheduled observation time based on the  ऊँचाई और शारीरिक  appearance of the clouds .
While a majority of clouds form in Earth 's troposphere , there are occasions  जब बादल  in the stratosphere and mesosphere can be observed .
These three main layers of the atmosphere where clouds may be seen are  collectively  known as the homosphere .
Above this lies the thermosphere and exosphere , which  साथ मेक up the heterosphere  that marks the transition to outer space .
Clouds have been  observed  on other planets and moons within the Solar System , but , due to their different temperature characteristics , they are composed of other substances such as methane , ammonia , and sulfuric acid .
Galveston County is a county located in the U.S. state of Texas within the  houston–sugar land–baytown  metropolitan area .
As of the 2010  census  , the population was 291,309 .
Its county  सीट is  Galveston .
League City is the largest city in Galveston County in terms of population ; URL_http between 2000 and 2005 it  surpassed galveston  as the county 's largest city .
galveston काउंटी  was founded in 1838 .
nassau
freeport  , Bahamas
This is a list of  शहरों in the  Bahamas .
The following table lists the city  or कस्बा नाम , the भौगोलिक  coordinates , the population as of the 1990 census , an estimate of the population as of 2009 , and the island name .
The Big Ten Conference , formerly Western  सम्मेलन और बिग नौ सम्मेलन , is the oldest  Division I college athletic conference in the United States .
Its twelve member institutions ( which are primarily flagship research universities in their respective states , well-regarded academically , and with relatively large student enrollment ) are  स्तिथ primarily  in the Midwest , stretching from Nebraska in the west to Penn State in the east .
The conference competes in the NCAA 's Division I ; its football teams compete in the Football Bowl Subdivision ( FBS ) ,  formerly ज्ञात as प्रभाग i-a , the उच्चतम  level of NCAA competition in that sport .
Member schools of the Big Ten ( or , in two cases , their parent university systems ) also are  सदस्यों of the कमेटी on संस्थागत सहयोग , a अग्रणी शैक्षणिक  and research consortium .
Despite the conference 's name  , the बिग टेन दरअसल consists of 12 स्कूलों , following  the addition of The Pennsylvania State University in 1993 and the University of Nebraska–Lincoln in 2011 .
In 2014 , the conference will expand to 14 members with the additions of the University of Maryland , College Park and  rutgers , the राज्य विश्वविद्यालयों of  New Jersey .
It is not to be confused with the Big  12 सम्मेलन , जिससे रै  only ten schools and represents a different region of the country .
Single Malt Scotch is single malt whisky made in Scotland using a pot still distillation process  at a सिंगल डिस्टिलरी ,  with malted barley as the only grain ingredient .
As with any Scotch whisky , a single malt Scotch must be distilled in Scotland and matured in oak casks in  स्कॉटलैंड  for at least three years ( most single malts are matured longer ) .
`` Malt '' indicates  कि the व्हिस्की is आसुत  from a `` malted '' grain .
Several types of grains can be malted ( for  उदाहरण , जौ , rye और गेहूं हैं सब  grains which can be malted ) ; however , in the case of single malt Scotch , barley is always the only grain used .
`` Single '' indicates   that all the malts in the bottle come from a single distillery .
Bottlings containing malt  व्हिस्की इससे  multiple distilleries are called `` blended malt `` .
Until the Scotch Whisky Regulations 2009 ( SWR 2009 ) , the word `` blended ''  तभी appeared  ( in the context of Scotch whisky ) on bottles of whisky that contained a mixture of both barley and non-barley grain whisky , but this is no longer the case .
Under the terminology  स्थापित by the swr 2009 , a `` blended  malt Scotch whisky '' is a mixture of single malt Scotch whiskies , not a mixture of malted barley whisky and non-barley whisky ; those are called `` blended Scotch whisky '' , without the word `` malt '' .
The term `` blended  malt '' replaced `` vatted  malt '' used under the prior labelling conventions .
The  आयु बयान on a बोतल  of single malt Scotch is the number of years the whisky spent maturing in cask .
As very few whiskies are  बोतलबंद इससे a सिंगल  cask the age statement reflects the age of the youngest malt in the mix .
A texture may be arranged so as to , `` closely approach the single-object status of fused-ensemble timbres , for example  , the खूबसूरत 'northern लाइट्स ' कॉर्ड ... , in a बहुत  interesting distribution of pitches , produces a fused sound supported by a suspended cymbal roll `` ( Erickson ( 1975 ) , p.166 & 168 ) .
In contrast to more traditional musical textures , sound mass composition `` minimizes the importance  of व्यक्तिगत pitches in वरीयता लिये बनावट , timbre  , and dynamics as primary shapers of gesture and impact . ''
Developed from the modernist tone clusters and spread to  orchestral लिखने by the लेट 1950s और 1960s  , sound-mass `` obscures the boundary between sound and noise `` ( Edwards 2001 , pp . 326–27 ) .
Techniques which may create or be used with sound mass include extended  तकनीकों  such as muted brass or strings , flutter tonguing , wide vibrato , extreme ranges , and glissandos .
Composers and works include Barbara  kolb ,  Pauline Oliveros ' Sound Patterns for chorus ( 1961 ) , Norma Beecroft 's From Dreams of Brass for chorus ( 1963–1964 ) , and Nancy Van de Vate .
beecroft `` टुकड़ा  individual pitches in favor of a collective timbre through the use of vocal and instrumental clusters , choral speech , narrator , and a wash of sounds from an electronic tape . ''
(  ibid  )
A very early example is the opening of Jean-Féry Rebel 's ballet Les  elémens ( 1737–38 ) , जहाँ अराजकता is  represented by a gradually cumulating orchestral cluster of all seven notes of the D minor scale ( Henck 2004 , pp . 52–54 ) .
A later example is the third movement of Ruth Crawford Seeger 's String Quartet  1931 ( nonesuch h-71280 ) जबकि अधिक  recently Phill Niblock 's multiple drone based music serves as an example .
The use of `` chords approaching timbres '' begins with Debussy and Edgard  varèse प्रायः carefully scored व्यक्तिगत इंस्ट्रूमेंटल भाग so कि वे होता  fuse into one ensemble timbre or sound mass ( Erickson 1975 , pp . 18 and 21 ) .
Other examples include European `` textural '' compositions of the fifties and sixties such as Krzysztof Penderecki 's Threnody to the Victims of Hiroshima  ( 1959 ) and  György Ligeti 's works featuring micropolyphony in works like Atmosphères ( 1961 ) and his Requiem ( 1963-65 ) .
Other composers with works using this technique include Henryk Górecki , Karel Husa ,  witold lutosławski  , Kazimierz Serocki , and Steven Stucky .
ध्वनि द्रव्यमान  techniques also appear in the music of George Crumb ( Anon . n.d. ) .
Students attending a lecture on linear algebra at the Helsinki  विश्वविद्यालयों  of Technology
Pupils in rural  सूडान  , 2002
A student is a learner , or someone who attends  an शैक्षणिक  institution .
In some nations , the English term ( or its cognate in another language ) is reserved for those who attend university , while a schoolchild under the age of eighteen is called a pupil in English ( or an equivalent in other languages ) , although in the United States a person enrolled in grades  K–12 is  often called a student .
In  इसके widest  use , student is used for anyone who is learning .
ऑस्ट्रेलिया is a  continent comprising mainland Australia , Tasmania , New Guinea , Seram , possibly Timor , and neighbouring islands .
The continent is sometimes known in technical contexts by the names Sahul , Australinea or Meganesia , to distinguish it from the  ऑस्ट्रेलियाई  mainland .
It is the smallest of the seven traditional  महाद्वीपों in the  English conception .
New Zealand  is नहीं  part of the continent of Australia , but of the separate , submerged continent of Zealandia .
Zealandia and Australia are both  भाग  of the wider regions known as Australasia and Oceania .
The continent of Australia  झूठ on a महाद्वीपीय शेल्फ overlain by उथले समंदर जिससे divide it into अनेक  landmasses — the Arafura Sea and Torres Strait between mainland Australia and New Guinea , and Bass Strait between mainland Australia and Tasmania .
When sea levels were lower  दौरान the pleistocene बर्फ आयु  , including the last glacial maximum about 18,000 BC , they were connected by dry land .
During the past ten thousand years , rising sea levels  overflowed the lowlands और अलग the महाद्वीप  into today 's low-lying arid to semi-arid mainland and the two mountainous islands of New Guinea and Tasmania .
Geologically , a continent extends to the edge of its continental shelf , so the now-separate   islands are considered part of the continent .
Due to the spread of animals , fungi and plants across the single Pleistocene landmass the separate lands have  a  related biota .
Central Park is nearly twice as big as the  संसार 's second-smallest  country , Monaco .
Historically its  टंकी  were important components of the city 's water supply .
Environmental issues in New York  नगर हैं प्रभावित by the नगर  's size , density , abundant public transportation infrastructure , and location at the mouth of the Hudson River .
New York 's population density has  पर्यावरणीय  pros and cons .
It facilitates the highest mass transit use in the United States , but also  concentrates प्रदूषण  .
Gasoline consumption in the city is at the rate the national average was in the 1920s , and greenhouse gas emissions are a fraction of the national average , at 7.1 metric tons per person per year , below San  फ्रांसिस्को , at 11.2 मीट्रिक टन , और the नेशनल औसत , at 24.5  metric tons .
New York City  खाते लिये तभी 1  % of United States greenhouse gas emissions while housing 2.7 % of its population .
In September 2012 , New York was  नामित  the # 1 `` America 's Dirtiest City , '' by a Travel+Leisure readership survey that rated the environmental quality of 35 prominent cities in the United States .
Atlanta ( , stressed , locally ) is the capital of and the most populous city in the  u.S.  state of Georgia , with an estimated 2011 population of 432,427 .
Atlanta is the cultural and economic center of the  अटलांटा महानगर क्षेत्रफल , घर to  5,457,831 people and the ninth largest metropolitan area in the United States .
Atlanta  is the काउंटी सीट of  Fulton County , and a small portion of the city extends eastward into DeKalb County .
Atlanta  थी स्थापित in  1837 at the intersection of two railroad lines , and the city rose from the ashes of the Civil War to become a national center of commerce .
In the decades following the Civil Rights Movement , during which the city  अर्जित a प्रतिष्ठा  as `` too busy to hate '' for the progressive views of its citizens and leaders , Atlanta attained international prominence .
Atlanta is the primary transportation hub of the Southeastern United States , via highway , railroad , and air , with Hartsfield–Jackson Atlanta International Airport being the world 's  व्यस्ततम विमानक्षेत्र चूंकि 1998  .
Atlanta is considered an `` alpha ( - ) world city , '' and , with a gross domestic product of US $ 270 billion , Atlanta’s economy ranks 15th among world cities and sixth  in the स्वदेश  .
Although Atlanta’s economy is considered diverse , dominant sectors include logistics , professional and business services , media  परिचालन  , government administration , and higher education .
Topographically  , अटलांटा is चिह्नित  by rolling hills and dense tree coverage .
Revitalization of Atlanta 's neighborhoods , initially spurred by the 1996 Olympics , has  intensified in  the 21st century , altering the city 's demographics , politics , and culture .
A 1947 propaganda comic book  प्रकाशित by the catechetical गिल्ड  Educational Society raising the specter of a Communist takeover
McCarthyism is the practice of making accusations of disloyalty , subversion , or  देशद्रोह बगैर उचित लिहाज़  for evidence .
It also means `` the practice of making unfair allegations or using unfair investigative  तकनीकों , विशेषकर in अनुक्रम to सीमित  dissent or political criticism . ''
The term has its origins in the period  in the संयुक्त राज्य ज्ञात as the दूसरी रेड scare  , lasting roughly from 1950 to 1956 and characterized by heightened fears of communist influence on American institutions and espionage by Soviet agents .
Originally coined to criticize the anti-communist  pursuits of रिपब्लिकन u.s . सीनेटर जोसेफ मैकार्थी  of Wisconsin , `` McCarthyism '' soon took on a broader meaning , describing the excesses of similar efforts .
The term is also now used more generally to describe reckless , unsubstantiated accusations , as well as demagogic attacks  on  the character or patriotism of political adversaries .
During the McCarthy era , thousands  of अमेरिकी यहूद अभियुक्त of होने साम्यवादियों or कम्युनिस्ट sympathizers  and became the subject of aggressive investigations and questioning before government or private-industry panels , committees and agencies .
The  प्राथमिक लक्ष्य of ऐसे suspicions  were government employees , those in the entertainment industry , educators and union activists .
Suspicions were often given credence despite inconclusive or questionable evidence , and the level of threat posed  by a व्यक्ति 's रियल or supposed वामपंथी  associations or beliefs was often greatly exaggerated .
Many people suffered loss  of  employment and/or destruction of their careers ; some even suffered imprisonment .
Most of these punishments came about through trial verdicts later overturned , laws that would be declared unconstitutional , dismissals for reasons later declared illegal or actionable , or extra-legal procedures that  होता  come into general disrepute .
The most famous examples  of McCarthyism include  the speeches , investigations , and hearings of Senator McCarthy himself ; the Hollywood blacklist , associated with hearings conducted by the House Un-American Activities Committee ( HUAC ) ; and the various anti-communist activities of the Federal Bureau of Investigation ( FBI ) under Director J. Edgar Hoover .
McCarthyism was a widespread social and cultural phenomenon that affected all levels of society and was the source of  a ग्रेट सौदे  of debate and conflict in the United States .
Napoleon is a fictional character and the  प्रमुख विपक्षी in जार्ज ऑरवेल  's Animal Farm .
While he is at first a common farm   pig , he gets rid of Snowball , another pig which shares the power .
he तब takes लाभ of the  animals ' uprising against their masters to eventually become the tyrannical `` President of Animal Farm , '' which he turns into a dictatorship .
वरुण  logo
the वरुण  Canada project is the world’s first regional-scale underwater ocean observatory that plugs directly into the Internet .
Since December 2009 , it has allowed people to `` surf '' the seafloor while ocean scientists run  deep-water प्रयोग इससे  labs and universities around the world .
Along with its sister project , VENUS , NEPTUNE offers  a अद्वितीय  approach to ocean science .
Traditionally , ocean scientists have relied on infrequent ship cruises or   space-based satellites to carry out their research , while the NEPTUNE project uses a remotely operated crawler .
The Coronet was a full-size car from Dodge in the 1950s , initially the  प्रभाग  's highest trim line but , starting in 1955 , the lowest trim line .
In the 1960s , the name  थी transferred  to Dodge 's mid-size entry .
ARM9 is an ARM architecture  32-bit risc cpu परिवार  .
Commonwealth  is a परंपरागत  English term for a political community founded for the common good .
historically , it  has sometimes been synonymous with `` republic `` .
More recently it has been used for fraternal associations of some  sovereign  nations .
Most notably , the Commonwealth of  राष्ट्र , an  association primarily of former members of the British Empire , is often referred to as simply `` the Commonwealth '' .
The September 11 attacks ( also referred to as September 11 , September 11th , or 9/11 ) were a series of four coordinated  आतंकवादी हमले शुभारम्भ by the इस्लामी आतंकवादी समूह al-qaeda  upon the United States in New York City and the Washington , D.C. area on September 11 , 2001 .
Four passenger airliners were hijacked by 19 al-Qaeda  आतंकवादी so वे could  be flown into buildings in suicide attacks .
Two of those planes , American Airlines Flight 11 and United Airlines Flight 175 , were crashed into the  उत्तर और दक्षिण मीनारें , क्रमशः  , of the World Trade Center complex in New York City .
Within two hours , both towers collapsed with debris and the resulting fires causing partial or complete  पतन of सब अन्य इमारतें in the wtc जटिल  , as well as major damage to ten other large surrounding structures .
A third plane , American Airlines Flight 77 , was crashed  into the प्रस्तुतीकरण ( the मुख्यालय of the संयुक्त  States Department of Defense ) , leading to a partial collapse in its western side .
The fourth plane , United Airlines Flight 93 , was targeted at the United States Capitol in Washington , D.C. , but crashed into  a field near  Shanksville , Pennsylvania , after its passengers tried to overcome the hijackers .
In  कुल , लगभग 3,000  people died in the attacks , including the 227 civilians and 19 hijackers aboard the four planes .
suspicion जल्दी  fell on al-Qaeda .
Although the group 's leader , Osama bin Laden , initially denied any involvement , in 2004 he claimed responsibility for the  हमले  .
Al-Qaeda and bin Laden cited U.S. support of Israel , the  उपस्थिति of u.S. सैनिकों in सऊदी अरब , और प्रतिबंधों  against Iraq as motives for the attacks .
The United States responded to the attacks by launching the War on Terror and invading Afghanistan to depose the  तालिबान , जिससे  had harbored al-Qaeda .
Many countries  strengthened  their anti-terrorism legislation and expanded law enforcement powers .
Having evaded capture for years , bin Laden was located and  मारे  by U.S. forces in May 2011 .
The destruction of the Twin Towers and other properties caused  गंभीर क्षति to the अर्थव्यवस्था of  Lower Manhattan and had a significant effect on global markets .
Cleanup of the World Trade Center site was completed in May 2002 , and the Pentagon was repaired within  a  year .
Numerous memorials have been constructed , including the National September 11 Memorial & Museum in New York , the  प्रस्तुतीकरण मेमोरियल , और the उड़ान  93 National Memorial in Pennsylvania .
After a lengthy delay , the One World Trade Center is  अपेक्षित to be समाप्त at  Ground Zero in New York City in 2013 .
Crater Lake National Park is  a संयुक्त  States National Park located in southern Oregon .
Established in 1902 , Crater  झील नेशनल पार्क is the पांचवां oldest नेशनल पार्क in the  United States and the only one in the state of Oregon .
The park encompasses the caldera of Crater Lake , a remnant of a destroyed volcano , Mount Mazama , and the  surrounding पहाड़ियाँ और  forests .
The lake is deep at its deepest point , which makes it the deepest lake in the United States , the second deepest in North America and the ninth  deepest in the  world .
Crater Lake is often referred to as the seventh deepest lake in the world , but this former listing excludes the approximately depth of subglacial Lake Vostok in Antarctica , which resides under nearly of ice , and the recent report of a  अधिकतम गहराई लिये झील o'higgins /san मार्टिन , स्तिथ on the किनारा of चिली और अर्जेंटीना  .
However , when comparing its average depth of to the average depth of other deep lakes , Crater Lake becomes the deepest in the Western Hemisphere and the third  deepest in the संसार  .
The impressive average depth of this volcanic lake is due to the nearly symmetrical deep caldera formed 7,700 years  पहले दौरान the हिंसक climactic  eruptions and subsequent collapse of Mount Mazama and the relatively moist climate that is typical of the crest of the Cascade Range .
The  caldera रिम  ranges in elevation from .
The United States Geological Survey benchmarked  उन्नयन  of the lake surface itself is .
This  नेशनल  Park encompasses .
Crater Lake has no streams  बहती  into or out of it .
All water that enters the lake is eventually lost from evaporation or   subsurface seepage .
The lake 's water commonly has a striking blue hue , and the lake is re-filled entirely from direct precipitation in the  रूप of हिम और बरसात  .
The Supreme Court of the United States is the highest court in the United  राज्य  .
It has ultimate ( and largely discretionary ) appellate jurisdiction over all federal courts and over state court  cases  involving issues of federal law , and original jurisdiction over a small range of cases .
The Court , which meets in the United States Supreme Court Building in Washington , D.C. , consists of a chief justice and eight associate justices who are nominated by the  अध्यक्ष और पुष्टि by the संयुक्त  States Senate .
Once appointed , justices have life tenure unless they resign , retire , or are  removed बाद महाभियोग .
Conroe is  the सीट of मोंटगोमरी  County and falls within the metropolitan area .
it  is located about north of Houston .
As of July   2011 , the city population was 58,973 , up from 36,811 in 2000 .
The Book of Mormon is a sacred text of the Latter Day Saint movement ,  जिससे adherents  believe contains writings of ancient prophets who lived on the American continent from approximately 2200 BC to AD 421 .
It was first published in March 1830 by Joseph Smith as The Book of Mormon : An Account Written by the Hand of Mormon  upon प्लेटों लिया इससे the प्लेटों of nephi .
According to Smith 's account , and also according to the book 's narrative , the Book of Mormon was originally written in otherwise unknown characters referred to  as `` reformed मिश्र `` engraved on सुनहरी प्लेटों  .
Smith claimed that the last prophet to contribute to the book , a man named Moroni , buried it in a hill in present-day New York and then returned to earth in 1827 as an angel , revealing the location of the book to Smith and instructing him to translate and disseminate it as evidence of the restoration  of मसीह 's सच्चा गिरिजाघर in the latter  days .
The Book of Mormon has a number of original and distinctive doctrinal discussions on subjects such as the fall of Adam and  संध्या , the प्रकृति of the प्रायश्चित , eschatology , मोचन  from physical and spiritual death , and the organization of the latter-day church .
The pivotal event of the book is an appearance of Jesus Christ to the Americas  shortly  after his resurrection .
The Book of Mormon is the earliest of the unique writings  of the  Latter Day Saint movement , the denominations of which typically regard the text not only as scripture but also as a historical record of God 's dealings with the ancient inhabitants of the Americas .
The Book of Mormon is divided into smaller books , titled after the individuals named  as प्राथमिक लेखक और , in  most versions , divided into chapters and verses .
It is written in English  , बहुत समान to the जल्दी आधुनिक अंग्रेज़ी भाषाई  style of the King James Version of the Bible , and has since been fully or partially translated into 108 languages .
An enlisted rank ( also known as   an enlisted grade or enlisted rate ) is , in most militaries , any rank below that of a commissioned officer or warrant officer .
The term can also be  समावेशी of  non-commissioned officers .
In  सबसे मामले , आयोजिक  service personnel perform jobs specific to their own occupational specialty , as opposed to the more generalized command responsibilities of commissioned officers .
`` What a Wonderful World '' is a song written by Bob Thiele ( as `` George Douglas '' ) and  जार्ज दाउद वेइस .
it थी पहला अंकित  by Louis Armstrong and released as a single in 1967 .
Thiele and Weiss were both prominent in the music world ( Thiele as a producer and Weiss as a  composer/performer  ) .
Armstrong 's  रिकॉर्डिंग थी inducted  in the Grammy Hall of Fame in 1999 .
The publishing for this  सोंग is नियंत्रित by मेमोरी  Lane Music Group , Carlin Music Corp. , and Bug Music , Inc .
1908 poster advertising Gaumont  's ध्वनि  films .
The Chronomégaphone , designed for large halls ,  employed  compressed air to amplify the recorded sound .
A sound film is a motion picture with synchronized sound , or sound technologically coupled to image , as opposed to a   silent film .
The first known public exhibition of projected sound films took place in Paris in 1900 , but decades would  pass पहले ध्वनि  motion pictures were made commercially practical .
Reliable synchronization was difficult  to achieve साथ the  early sound-on-disc systems , and amplification and recording quality were also inadequate .
Innovations in sound-on-film led to the first commercial screening of short motion pictures using the  प्रौद्योगिकी , जिससे took प्लेस in 1923 .
The primary steps in the commercialization of sound cinema were taken in  the mid- to लेट 1920s  .
At first , the sound films incorporating synchronized dialogue—known as `` talking pictures '' , or `` talkies '' —were exclusively shorts ; the earliest  feature-length फिल्मों साथ अंकित ध्वनि शामिल  only music and effects .
The first feature film originally  प्रस्तुत as a talkie थी the  Jazz Singer , released in October 1927 .
A major hit , it was made with Vitaphone , the leading brand of sound-on-disc  प्रौद्योगिकी  .
Sound-on-film , however , would soon become the standard for  talking तस्वीरें  .
By the early  1930s , the टॉकीज़ यहूद  a global phenomenon .
In the United States , they helped secure Hollywood 's position as one of the world 's most powerful  cultural/commercial  systems ( see Cinema of the United States ) .
In Europe ( and , to a lesser degree , elsewhere ) the new development was treated with suspicion by many filmmakers and critics , who worried  that a  focus on dialogue would subvert the unique aesthetic virtues of soundless cinema .
In Japan , where the popular film tradition integrated silent movie and live vocal  प्रदर्शन , talking तस्वीरें यहूद slow to लो  root .
In India , sound was the transformative element that led to the rapid expansion  of the स्वदेश 's  film industry—the most productive such industry in the world since the early 1960s .
अफ़्रीकी  people are natives or inhabitants of Africa and people of African descent .
The Australian Recording Industry Association Music Awards ( commonly known as ARIA Music Awards or ARIA Awards ) is an annual series of  पुरस्कार नाइट्स celebrating the ऑस्ट्रेलियाई  music industry , put on by the Australian Recording Industry Association ( ARIA ) .
The event has been held annually since 1987 and encompasses the general genre-specific and popular awards ( these are what is usually being referred to as `` the ARIA awards '' ) as well as Fine Arts Awards and Artisan Awards ( held separately from 2004 ) , Lifetime Achievement Awards and ARIA Hall of Fame –  आयोजित separately इससे 2005 to 2010 लकिन लौटे to the सामान्य  ceremony in 2011 .
For 2010 , ARIA introduced public voted awards for the  पहला समय  .
Winning , or even being nominated for ,  an ARIA award  results in a lot of media attention on an artist , and usually increases recording sales several-fold – in 2005 , for example , after Ben Lee won three awards , his album Awake Is the New Sleep jumped from No . 31 to No . 5 in the ARIA Charts , its highest position .
For-profit education ( also known as the education services industry or  मालिकाना शिक्षा ) refers to शैक्षणिक संस्थानों  operated by private , profit -seeking businesses .
There are   three types of for-profit schools .
One type is known as an educational management organization ( EMO ) , and these are  प्राथमिक और द्वितीयक शैक्षणिक  institutions .
emos कार्य  with school districts or charter schools , using public funds to finance operations .
The majority of for-profit schools in the K–12 sector in America function as EMOs , and  have grown  in number in the mid-2000s .
The other major category of for-profit schools are post-secondary institutions which operate as businesses , receiving  शुल्क इससे प्रत्येक छात्र वे enroll  .
A third type of for-profit schools , which is less  प्रचलित in the संयुक्त राज्य  , are K–12 schools which operate as businesses .
EMOs function differently from charter schools  निर्मित in  order to carry out a particular teaching pedagogy ; most charter schools are mission-oriented , while EMOs and other for-profit institutions are market-oriented .
जबकि समर्थक argue कि the लाभ motive encourages दक्षता , इस व्यवस्था रै भी drawn विवाद और आलोचना .
Kevin Carey , director of the  शिक्षा नीति कार्यक्रम  of the New American Foundation said in a 2010 column in The Chronicle of Higher Education that `` For-profits exist in large part to fix educational market failures left by traditional institutions , and they profit by serving students that public and private nonprofit institutions too often ignore . ''
He also noted  कि `` वहीँ 's no शक कि the  worst for-profits are ruthlessly exploiting the commodified college degree .
But  वे किया  n't commodify it in the first place . ''
Amendment XXII in the National  अभिलेख
The Twenty-second Amendment of the United States  संविधान सेट a पद सीमा  for election to the office of President of the United States .
Congress passed the amendment on  कूच  21 , 1947 .
It was ratified by the  आवश्यक क्रमांक  of states on February 27 , 1951 .
This is an episode guide for  the दुश्मनी श्रेणी  Bobobo-bo Bo-bobo .
This list encompasses every episode ,  शुरूआत साथ the असली japanese-language  title as they aired on TV Asahi , followed by the title used in the English dubbed version airing in the United States on Cartoon Network .
A short summary will follow , introducing the episode and referring to some of the gags , but not giving the complete  summaries to the  episodes .
All names and some of the references will be the ones  प्रयुक्त इससे  the English-language version to avoid confusion .
Japanese names may be presented after the dub name in  कोष्ठक  .
This article  is परिचय  the public park in New York City .
For other uses , see Central Park (  बहुविकल्पी  ) .
Central Park is a public  पार्क at the बीच  of Manhattan in New York City .
The park initially opened   in 1857 , on of city-owned land ( it is 843 acres today ) .
In 1858 , Frederick Law Olmsted and Calvert  vaux  won a design competition to improve and expand the park with a plan they entitled the Greensward Plan .
Construction began the same year , continued during the American Civil War , and was  समाप्त in  1873 .
Central Park  is the सबसे  visited urban park in the United States .
designated a नेशनल  Historic Landmark in 1962 , the park is currently managed by the Central Park Conservancy under contract with the city government .
The Conservancy is a non-profit organization that contributes 83.5 % of Central Park 's $ 37.5 million annual budget , and employs  80.7 % of the पार्क 's मेंटेनेंस  staff .
TracFone Wireless , Inc. is a prepaid  बेतार सेवा प्रदाता ऑपरेटिंग  in the United States including Puerto Rico and the US Virgin Islands and is a subsidiary of Mexico 's largest telecommunications provider , América Móvil .
As a Mobile   Virtual Network Operator ( MVNO ) , TracFone Wireless holds multiple agreements with the US largest wireless telecommunications companies to utilize their networks to provide service including those of Verizon , AT & T , Sprint , and T-Mobile .
TracFone Wireless offers its wireless products under multiple brands which each also offer distinctive service  योजनाएँ , the ब्रांड्स शामिल  TracFone , NET10 Wireless , Straight Talk , SafeLink Wireless , Telcel América and Simple Mobile .
A grab  dredge
Dredging is an excavation activity or operation usually carried out at least partly underwater  , in  shallow seas or fresh water areas with the purpose of gathering up bottom sediments and disposing of them at a different location .
इस तकनीक is प्रायः प्रयुक्त to रखना जलमार्गों navigable .
It is also used as a way to replenish sand on some public beaches , where sand has been lost  क्युकी of तटीय अपरदन .
dredging is भी  used as a technique for fishing for certain species of edible clams and crabs , see fishing dredge .
A dredger ( or “dredge” as is  the सामान्य उपयोग  in the Americas ) is any device , machine , or vessel that is used to excavate and remove material from the bottom of a body of water .
For example , a scoop  संलग्न to the समाप्त of a रस्सी or ध्रुव  by which a man can draw sediments up from the bottom of a pond is a dredger .
Developing this idea further , a motorized crane equipped  साथ a खीचें बाल्टी or clamshell  ( grabber ) that is used to scoop material from the bottom of a body of water is also a dredger .
The crane could be  स्तिथ on the बैंको , or  perhaps mounted on a barge .
If the crane is mounted on a barge , the  संपूर्ण पोत  is referred to as a dredger .
The process of dredging creates spoils ( excess  सामग्री ) , जिससे  are carried away from the dredged area .
Dredging can produce materials for land reclamation or other purposes ( usually construction-related ) , and has  भी historically  played a significant role in gold mining .
Dredging can  बनाएँ disturbance  in aquatic ecosystems , often with adverse impacts .
Cleveland Volcano in the Aleutian Islands of Alaska photographed from the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय स्पेस स्टेशन , may 2006  .
Ash plumes reached a height of 19 km  during  the climactic eruption at Mount Pinatubo , Philippines in 1991 .
A volcano is an opening , or rupture , in a planet 's surface  or  crust , which allows hot magma , volcanic ash and gases to escape from the magma chamber below the surface .
Volcanoes are generally found where tectonic  प्लेटों हैं diverging or  converging .
A mid-oceanic ridge , for example the Mid-Atlantic Ridge , has examples of volcanoes caused by divergent tectonic plates  pulling अलावा ; the प्रशांत रिंग of आग रै उदाहरण  of volcanoes caused by convergent tectonic plates coming together .
By contrast , volcanoes are  प्रायः नहीं निर्मित जहाँ दो tectonic  plates slide past one another .
Volcanoes can also form where there is stretching and thinning  of the धरती 's  crust in the interiors of plates , e.g. , in the East African Rift , the Wells Gray-Clearwater volcanic field and the Rio Grande Rift in North America .
This type of volcanism falls  अंतर्गत  the umbrella of `` Plate hypothesis '' volcanism .
volcanism  away from plate boundaries has also been explained as mantle plumes .
These so-called `` hotspots `` , for example Hawaii , are postulated to arise from upwelling diapirs with magma from the  core–mantle boundary , 3,000  km deep in the Earth .
Erupting  ज्वालामुखी  can pose many hazards , not only in the immediate vicinity of the eruption .
Volcanic ash can be  a threat to वायुयान  , in particular those with jet engines where ash particles can be melted by the high operating temperature .
Large eruptions can affect temperature as ash and droplets of sulfuric acid obscure the sun and cool the  धरती 's निम्नतर माहौल or क्षोभमण्डल ; however , वे भी  absorb heat radiated up from the Earth , thereby warming the stratosphere .
Historically , so-called volcanic winters have caused  अनर्थकारी अकाल  .
Benedict Arnold ( June 14 , 1801 ) was a general during the American Revolutionary War who originally fought for the American  महाद्वीपीय फौज लकिन defected to the अंग्रेजों  Army .
While a general on the American side , he  प्राप्त कमांड of the  fort at West Point , New York , and planned to surrender it to the British forces .
After the plan was exposed in September 1780 , he was commissioned into the British Army as a brigadier   general .
Born in Connecticut , Arnold was a merchant operating ships   on the Atlantic Ocean when the war broke out in 1775 .
After joining the growing army outside Boston , he distinguished   himself through acts of intelligence and bravery .
His actions included the  कैप्चर of फोर्ट ticonderoga in 1775 , रक्षात्मक और delaying tactics  despite losing the Battle of Valcour Island on Lake Champlain in 1776 , the Battle of Ridgefield , Connecticut ( after which he was promoted to major general ) , operations in relief of the Siege of Fort Stanwix , and key actions during the pivotal Battles of Saratoga in 1777 , in which he suffered leg injuries that ended his combat career for several years .
Despite Arnold 's successes , he was passed over for promotion by the Continental  कॉंग्रेस जबकि अन्य अधिकारियों claimed  credit for some of his accomplishments .
Adversaries in military and political circles brought charges of  भ्रष्टाचार or अन्य malfeasance  , but most often he was acquitted in formal inquiries .
Congress investigated his accounts and found he was indebted to  कॉंग्रेस बाद बिता  much of his own money on the war effort .
Frustrated and bitter , Arnold decided to change sides in 1779 , and opened secret negotiations with  the अंग्रेजों  .
In July 1780 , he was  offered  , continued to pursue and was awarded command of West Point .
Arnold 's scheme to surrender the fort to the  अंग्रेजों थी उजागर  when American forces captured British Major John André carrying papers that revealed the plot .
Upon learning of André 's capture , Arnold fled down the Hudson  River to  the British sloop-of-war Vulture , narrowly avoiding capture by the forces of George Washington , who had been alerted to the plot .
Arnold received a commission as a brigadier general in the  अंग्रेजों फौज , an सालाना  pension of £360 , and a lump sum of over £6,000 .
He led  अंग्रेजों शक्तियां on छापे  in Virginia , and against New London and Groton , Connecticut , before the war effectively ended with the American victory at Yorktown .
In the winter of 1782 , Arnold moved to London with his  दूसरी बीवी , मार्गरेट  `` Peggy '' Shippen Arnold .
He was well received by King George III and the Tories  लकिन खीझ upon by  the Whigs .
In 1787 , he  लौटे to the व्यापारी  business with his sons Richard and Henry in Saint John , New Brunswick .
he लौटे  to London to settle permanently in 1791 , where he died ten years later .
Because of the  रास्ता he बदला पहलू , उसके नाम  quickly became a in the United States for treason or betrayal .
His conflicting legacy is recalled in the ambiguous nature of some of the  memorials  that have been placed in his honor .
Curtis  montague schilling ( born नवम्बर 14 ,  1966 ) is a former American Major League Baseball right-handed pitcher and Video Game developer .
He helped lead the  फिलाडेल्फिया  Phillies to the World Series in and won World Series championships in with the Arizona Diamondbacks and in and with the Boston Red Sox .
Schilling retired with a career  postseason रिकार्ड  of 11–2 .
His  .846 postseason जीतना प्रतिशत  is a major-league record among pitchers with at least 10 decisions .
After retiring , he founded Green   Monster Games which was renamed 38 Studios .
The company released Kingdoms of Amalur : Reckoning in February 2012 , but just three months later , Schilling laid off his entire staff amid severe financial troubles that resulted  in the कम्पनी  missing payroll the previous week .
Star Wars is an American epic space opera franchise centered on a film  श्रेणी निर्मित by  George Lucas .
The film series has spawned a media franchise  बाहर  the film series called the Expanded Universe including books , television series , computer and video games , and comic books .
These supplements to the film trilogies have  resulted in significant  development of the series ' fictional universe .
These media kept the franchise active in  the अंतरिम between  the film trilogies .
The franchise portrays a galaxy that is described as far , far away in the  दूर  past .
It commonly portrays Jedi as a  प्रतिनिधित्व of शुभ  , in conflict with the Sith , their evil counterpart .
Their  हथियार  of choice , the lightsaber , is commonly recognized in popular culture .
The fictional universe also contains many themes , especially influences of philosophy  और धर्म  .
The first  film in the series was  originally released on May 25 , 1977 , under the title Star Wars , by 20th Century Fox , and became a worldwide pop culture phenomenon , followed by two sequels , released at three-year intervals .
Sixteen years after the  रिलीज of the त्रयी  's final film , the first in a new prequel trilogy of films was released .
The three prequel films were  भी released at three-year  intervals , with the final film of the trilogy released on May 19 , 2005 .
In October 2012 , The Walt Disney Company acquired Lucasfilm for $ 4.05 billion and announced that it would produce three new films , with the  पहला फिल्मी , स्टार युद्धों एपीसोड सात , नियोजित  for release in 2015 .
20th Century Fox still retains the distribution rights to the first two Star Wars  trilogies , owning स्थाई अधिकारों  for the original film Episode IV : A New Hope , while holding the rights to Episodes I–III , V and VI until May 2020 .
Reactions to the original trilogy were mostly positive , with the last film being  माना the weakest , जबकि the प्रीक्वेल  trilogy received a more mixed reaction , with most of the praise being for the final movie , according to most review aggregator websites .
All six of the main films in the series were  भी मनोनीत लिये  or won Academy Awards .
All  of the प्रमुख films have महरूम बक्सा दफ्तर सफलताओं , साथ the overall  box office revenue generated by the Star Wars films ( including the theatrical Star Wars : The Clone Wars ) totalling $ 4.49 billion , making it the third-highest-grossing film series .
The success has also led to  अनेक  re-releases in theaters for the series .
Plateletpheresis ( more accurately called  thrombocytapheresis or  thrombapheresis , though these names are rarely used ) is the process of collecting thrombocytes , more commonly called platelets , a component of blood involved in blood clotting .
The term specifically  refers to the विधि  of collecting the platelets , which is performed by a device used in blood donation that separates the platelets and returns other portions of the blood to the donor .
Platelet transfusion can be a life-saving procedure in preventing or treating serious complications from bleeding and hemorrhage in patients who have disorders  manifesting as thrombocytopenia  ( low platelet count ) or platelet dysfunction .
This process may also be used therapeutically to treat disorders  resulting in extraordinarily ऊँची  platelet counts such as essential thrombocytosis .
In computer networking , a port is an application-specific or process-specific software  construct सेवारत as a संचार  endpoint in a computer 's host operating system .
A port is associated  साथ an ip पता of  the host , as well as the type of protocol used for communication .
The purpose of ports is to uniquely identify different applications or processes running on a single computer and thereby  enable उन्हें to share  a single physical connection to a packet-switched network like the Internet .
The protocols that primarily use ports are the Transport Layer protocols , such as the Transmission Control Protocol ( TCP ) and the User Datagram   Protocol ( UDP ) of the Internet Protocol Suite .
A port is identified for each address and protocol by a 16-bit  क्रमांक , commonly ज्ञात as  the port number .
The port number , added to a  कंप्यूटर 's ip पता , completes  the destination address for a communications session .
That is , data packets are routed across the network to a specific destination IP address , and then , upon reaching the destination computer , are further  routed to the विशिष्ट प्रक्रम बंधी to the  destination port number .
Note that it is the combination of IP address and port number together that must  be  globally unique .
Thus , different IP addresses or protocols may use the same port number for communication ; e.g. , on a given host or interface UDP and TCP may use the same port number , or on  a मेजबान साथ  two interfaces , both addresses may be associated with a port having the same number .
Of the thousands of enumerated ports , about 250 well-known ports are  सुरक्षित by सम्मेलन to पहचानो  specific service types on a host .
In the client-server model of application architecture , ports are used to provide a multiplexing  सेवा on प्रत्येक server-side बंदरगाहों  number that network clients connect to for service initiation , after which communication can be reestablished on other connection-specific port numbers .
Area code 479 is the telephone area code serving thirteen counties in northwest Arkansas , including the cities of Fort Smith , Fayetteville  ,  Springdale , Rogers and Bentonville : the second , third , fourth , eighth and tenth-largest cities in the state , respectively .
it थी  created in 2002 in a split from area code 501 .
Area code 479 serves Benton , Carroll ( split with area code 870 ) , Crawford ,  फ्रैंकलिन , जॉनसन  , Logan , Madison , Polk , Pope , Scott , Sebastian , Washington and Yell Counties in Arkansas .
Arraignment is a formal reading of a  दण्ड चार्जिंग दस्तावेज़ in the उपस्थिति of the प्रतिवादी  to inform the defendant of the charges against him or her .
In response to arraignment , the accused  is अपेक्षित to डालें a दलील  .
Acceptable pleas vary among jurisdictions , but they generally include `` guilty '' , `` not guilty '' , and the peremptory pleas ( or pleas   in bar ) setting out reasons why a trial can not proceed .
Pleas of `` nolo contendere `` ( no contest ) and the `` Alford  दलील  `` are allowed in some circumstances .
In England , Wales , Northern Ireland and Australia , arraignment is the first of eleven stages in a criminal trial , and involves the clerk of the court reading out  the indictment  .
The defendant is asked whether he or she  pleads  guilty or not guilty to each charge .
In federal courts of   the United States , arraignment takes place in two stages .
The first is called the initial arraignment  और जरूर लो प्लेस भीतर  48 hours of an individual 's arrest , 72 hours if the individual was arrested on the weekend and not able to go before a judge until Monday .
During this arraignment the  प्रतिवादी is  informed of the pending legal charges and is informed of his or her right to retain counsel .
The presiding judge also decides at  कया  amount , if any , to set bail .
During the second arraignment , a  post-indictment  arraignment or PIA , the defendant is allowed to enter a plea .
Geoffrey Chaucer ( ; c. 1343 – 25 October 1400  ) , ज्ञात as the पिता of अंग्रेज़ी साहित्य , is widely  considered the greatest English poet of the Middle Ages and was the first poet to have been buried in Poet 's Corner of Westminster Abbey .
While he achieved fame during his lifetime as an author , philosopher , alchemist and astronomer ,  composing a वैज्ञानिक treatise on the astrolabe लिये उसके टेन year-old  son Lewis , Chaucer also maintained an active career in the civil service as a bureaucrat , courtier and diplomat .
Among his many works , which include The Book of the Duchess , the House of Fame , the Legend of Good Women and  troilus और criseyde  , he is best known today for The Canterbury Tales .
Chaucer is a crucial figure in developing the legitimacy of the vernacular , Middle English , at a time when the dominant  साहित्यिक भाषाएं in इंग्लैण्ड यहूद फ्रेंच  and Latin .
The Chicago Blizzard of 1979 was a  प्रमुख blizzard  that affected northern Illinois and northwest Indiana , U.S. on January 13 – January 14 , 1979 .
of snow fell on January 13  अलोन , सेटिंग  a new record for snow in one calendar day .
By  the  end of January 14 , of snow had fallen .
The cold weather and snowfall throughout the rest of January and February resulted in frozen tracks throughout  the शिकागो 'L ' प्रणाली  .
Commuters crowded onto CTA buses , quickly overwhelming capacity , resulting in usual bus commutes of  30-45 मिनट्स  taking up to several hours .
To avoid huge snowdrifts in the streets  , the overcrowded बसें  were obliged to take numerous detours , adding additional time to the commute .
Deployment of plows was significantly delayed and when  वे आखिरकार appeared वे struggled  to keep up with the snowfall .
Much of the snow remained unremoved throughout the next 2 months , causing ongoing public transit delays and  significant  problems with trash collection .
The city 's inadequate response to the blizzard was blamed primarily on mayor  माइकल bilandic  , who had assumed the post after the 1976 death of Richard J. Daley .
Newspaper articles at the time blasted Bilandic ; Jane Byrne , Bilandic 's main political rival in the Democratic primary ( who had previously worked with Bilandic in the Daley administration and been fired by Bilandic when the two  could नहीं मिलेंगी साथ ) , capitalized on  this and went on to defeat Bilandic in the February 27 primary .
The 12-hour clock is a time convention in which the 24 hours of the day are divided into two   periods : a.m. ( from the Latin ante meridiem , meaning `` before midday '' ) and p.m. ( post meridiem , `` after midday '' ) .
Each period consists of 12 hours numbered : 12 ( acting as  शून्य  ) , 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 , 8 , 9 , 10 , and 11 .
The 12-hour  क्लॉक थी विकसित over  time from the mid-second millennium BC to the 16th century AD .
Health spending per capita , in $ US PPP-adjusted , with the US and  कनाडा compared amongst  other first world nations .
Comparison of the health care   systems in Canada and the United States are often made by government , public health and public policy analysts .
The two countries had similar health care systems before Canada reformed  इसके प्रणाली in the  1960s and 1970s .
The United States spends much more money on health care than   Canada , on both a per-capita basis and as a percentage of GDP .
In 2006 ,  per-capita बिता  for health care in Canada was US $ 3,678 ; in the U.S. , US $ 6,714 .
The  u.S. खर्च  15.3 % of GDP on health care in that year ; Canada spent 10.0 % .
In 2006 , 70 % of health care spending in Canada was  financed  by government , versus 46 % in the United States .
Total government spending per capita in the U.S. on health care was 23 % higher than Canadian government spending , and U.S. government expenditure on health care was just under 83 % of total Canadian spending ( public and  निजी ) हालांकि ये आंकडे do n't लो into  account population differences .
Studies have come to  अलग  conclusions about the result of this disparity in spending .
A 2007 review of all studies comparing health outcomes in Canada and the US in a Canadian peer-reviewed medical journal  मिला कि  `` health outcomes may be superior in patients cared for in Canada versus the United States , but differences are not consistent . ''
Life expectancy is longer in Canada , and its infant mortality rate is lower than  कि  of the U.S. , but there is debate about the underlying causes of these differences .
One commonly cited comparison , the 2000 World Health Organization 's ratings of `` overall health service performance '' , which used a `` composite measure of achievement in the level of health , the  वितरण  of health , the level of responsiveness and fairness of financial contribution '' , ranked Canada 30th and the US 37th among 191 member nations .
This study rated the US `` responsiveness ''  , or विशेषता of  service for individuals receiving treatment , as 1st , compared with 7th for Canada .
While the average life expectancy for Canadians was 80.34 years compared with 78.6 years for residents of the US  , बस comparing the जीवन प्रत्याशा of  two groups with different racial makeup and different obesity rates is likely not an effective way of determining which healthcare system is superior .
The WHO 's study methods  यहूद  criticized by some analyses .
Although there is a  माप of सर्वसम्मति कि life-expectancy और शिशु मृत्यु चिह्नित the सबसे  reliable ways to compare nation-wide health care , assuming the population makeup is similar , a recent report by the Congressional Research Service carefully summarizes some recent data and notes the `` difficult research issues '' facing international comparisons .
Tarantulas  comprise a समूह of प्रायः  hairy and very large arachnids belonging to the Theraphosidae family of spiders , of which approximately 900 species have been identified .
This article only describes members of Theraphosidae , although some other members of the same suborder are  commonly  referred to as `` tarantulas '' .
Most species of tarantulas are not  खतरनाक to इंसानो , और कुछ  species have become popular in the exotic pet trade .
The ton is a  ईकाई of  measure .
It has a long history and has acquired a  क्रमांक of  meanings and uses over the years .
It is used principally as a  ईकाई of वज़न ,  and as a unit of volume .
It can also  be प्रयुक्त as a माप of  energy , for truck classification , or as a colloquial term .
It is  निकला इससे the tun , the  term applied to a barrel of the largest size .
This could contain a volume between 210 and 256 gallons ( 800 to 1000 L ) ,  जिससे  could weigh around 2,000 pounds ( 900 kg ) and occupy some of space .
In the United Kingdom the ton is defined as  ( avoirdupois  pounds ) .
From 1965 the UK embarked upon a programme of metrication and gradually introduced metric units , including the tonne ( metric ton ) , a non-SI metric unit defined  as  1000 kg .
The UK Weights and Measures Act 1985 explicitly excluded from  उपयोग लिये व्यापार  many units and terms , including the ton and the term `` metric ton '' for `` tonne ''
In the  संयुक्त राज्य  and formerly Canada a ton is defined to be .
Where confusion is possible , the 2240 lb ton is called `` long ton `` and the 2000 lb ton `` short ton `` ; the tonne is  विशिष्ट by इसके  spelling , but usually pronounced the same as ton , hence the US term `` metric ton '' .
In the  uk the फाइनल `` e '' of `` टन ''  can also be pronounced ( /ˈtʌnɪ/ ) , or `` metric ton '' when it is necessary to make the distinction .
Where accuracy is required the correct term  जरूर be प्रयुक्त , लकिन लिये अनेक उद्देश्य इस is नहीं जरुरी  : the metric and long tons differ by only 1.6 % , and the short ton is within 11 % of both .
The ton is the heaviest unit of  वज़न  referred to in colloquial speech .
The term `` ton '' is also used to refer to a  क्रमांक  of units of volume , ranging from in capacity .
It can also be used as a unit of energy , expressed as an equivalent of   coal burnt , TNT detonated , or in refrigeration , ice melted .
In Britain , ton is used  in कठबोली  in several contexts to mean `` 100 '' .
As a cost  or a गति  , a ton is widely understood to be £100 or 100 mph .
The  स्टेनली  Cup ( ) is the championship trophy awarded annually to the National Hockey League ( NHL ) playoff winner after the conclusion of the Stanley Cup Finals .
Originally commissioned in 1892 as the Dominion Hockey Challenge Cup , the trophy is named for Lord Stanley of Preston , then- Governor General of Canada  , जो awarded it to कनाडा  's top-ranking amateur ice hockey club , which the entire Stanley family supported , with the sons and daughters playing and promoting the game .
The first Cup was awarded in  1893  to Montreal HC .
In 1915 , the two  पेशेवर बर्फ हॉकी संगठन  , the National Hockey Association ( NHA ) and the Pacific Coast Hockey Association ( PCHA ) , reached a gentlemen 's agreement in which their respective champions would face each other for the Stanley Cup .
After a series of league mergers and folds , the Stanley `` Presentation Cup '' was established as the de facto championship trophy of the NHL in 1926 and then the de jure  एनएचएल चैंपियनशिप पुरस्कार  in 1947 .
There are actually three Stanley Cups  : the  original bowl of the `` Dominion Hockey Challenge Cup '' , the authenticated `` Presentation Cup '' , and the `` Replica Cup '' at the Hall of Fame .
The NHL has maintained effective control over both the trophy itself and its  संबद्ध  trademarks .
Nevertheless , the NHL does not actually own the trophy , but instead uses it by  अनुबंध साथ the दो trustees of the  Cup .
The NHL has registered trademarks associated with the name and likeness of the Stanley Cup , although the league 's right to outright own trademarks associated with a trophy it  करता नहीं अपना रै महरूम विवादित by कुछ विधिक  experts .
Unlike the trophies awarded by the other three major professional sports  लीग of उत्तर अमेरिका ,  a new Stanley Cup is not made each year ; winners keep it until a new champion is crowned .
It is unusual among trophies  , in कि it रै the names of सब  of the winning players , coaches , management , and club staff engraved on its chalice .
Initially , a new band added each year caused the trophy to grow in size , earning the  उपनाम `` stovepipe कप  '' .
In 1958 the modern one-piece Cup was designed with a five-band barrel which  could contain  13 winning teams per band .
To avoid the Stanley Cup from growing , when the bottom band is full , the oldest band is removed and preserved  in the हॉकी  Hall of Fame , and a new blank band added to the bottom .
It has been  referred  to as The Cup , Lord Stanley 's Cup , The Holy Grail , or facetiously ( chiefly by sportswriters ) as Lord Stanley 's Mug .
The Stanley Cup is surrounded by numerous legends and  परंपराओं , the  oldest of which is the celebratory drinking of champagne out of the cup by the winning team .
The original bowl was made of silver and is 18.5  सेण्टीमीटर ( 7.28 इंच  ) in height and 29 centimetres ( 11.42 inches ) in diameter .
The current Stanley Cup , topped with a copy of the original bowl , is made of a silver and nickel alloy ; it has a height of 89.54 centimetres ( 35.25 inches )  और weighs 15.5 गामा (  34.5 lb / 2 st 61⁄2 lb ) .
Since the 1914–15 season , the Cup has been won a combined 94 times by 18 active NHL teams and  पाँच  defunct teams .
Prior to that , the  चुनौती कप थी आयोजित  by nine different teams .
The Montreal Canadiens have won the Cup a record 24 times and are currently the last  canadian-based टोली  in the NHL to win the cup after winning it in 1993 .
The Stanley  कप थी नहीं awarded  in 1919 because of a Spanish flu epidemic , and in 2005 , as a consequence of the NHL lockout .
The Pineapple ( Ananas comosus ) is a tropical plant with edible multiple fruit consisting of coalesced berries , and the most  economically significant संयंत्र in  the Bromeliaceae family .
Pineapples may be cultivated from a crown cutting of  the फल  , possibly flowering in 20–24 months and fruiting in the following six months .
Pineapple does  नहीं  ripen significantly post-harvest .
pineapples हैं खपत  fresh , cooked , juiced , and preserved , and are found in a wide array of cuisines .
In addition to consumption , in the Philippines the pineapple 's leaves are used to produce the  वस्त्र रेशा piña  - employed as a component of wall paper and furnishings , amongst other uses .
In computer  विज्ञान , an  integer is a datum of integral data type , a data type which represents some finite subset of the mathematical integers .
Integral data types may be of different sizes and may or may not be allowed to  contain  negative values .
Integers are  commonly  represented in a computer as a group of binary digits .
The size of the grouping varies so the set of integer  आकार उपलब्धियाँ  varies between different types of computers .
Computer hardware nearly always provides a way to represent a processor register or memory address as an integer  .
The Gordon Dam in Tasmania is  a विशाल  hydro facility , with an installed capacity of .
Hydroelectricity is the term  referring to विद्युत उत्पन्न  by hydropower ; the production of electrical power through the use of the gravitational force of falling or flowing water .
It is the most widely used  रूप of बेदर्दी उर्जा  , accounting for 16 percent of global electricity generation – 3,427 terawatt-hours of electricity production in 2010 , and is expected to increase about 3.1 % each year for the next 25 years .
Hydropower is produced in  150  countries , with the Asia-Pacific region generating 32 percent of global hydropower in 2010 .
China is the largest hydroelectricity producer , with 721  terawatt-hours  of production in 2010 , representing around 17 percent of domestic electricity use .
There are now three hydroelectricity plants larger than  10 gw : the तीन gorges बांध in चीन , itaipu  Dam across the Brazil/Paraguay border , and Guri Dam in Venezuela .
The cost of hydroelectricity is relatively low , making it a competitive source of renewable  विद्युत  .
The average cost of electricity from a hydro  संयंत्र larger than 10 megawatts is  3 to 5 U.S. cents per kilowatt-hour .
Hydro is also a flexible source of electricity since plants can be ramped up and down very quickly to adapt  to  changing energy demands .
However , damming interrupts the flow of rivers and can harm local  ecosystems , और भवन  large dams and reservoirs often involves displacing people and wildlife .
Once a hydroelectric complex is constructed , the project produces no direct waste , and has a considerably lower output level of the greenhouse gas carbon dioxide ( ) than fossil fuel powered energy  पौधे  .
Wine boy at a  यूनानी symposium
The history of wine spans thousands of  सालो और is closely  intertwined with the history of agriculture , cuisine , civilization and humanity itself .
Archaeological evidence suggests that the earliest known wine production occurred in what is now the country  of Georgia  around 7000 BCE , with other notable sites in Greater Iran dated 4500 BCE and Armenia 4100 BCE , respectively .
The world 's oldest known winery ( dated to 3000 BCE ) was discovered in Areni-1  गुफा in a mountainous  area of Armenia .
URL_http  .
Increasingly clear  पुरातत्व प्रमाण  indicates that domestication of the grapevine took place during the Early Bronze Age in the Near East , Sumer and Egypt from around the third millennium BCE .
Evidence of  the earliest  wine production in Balkans has been uncovered at archaeological sites in northern Greece ( Macedonia ) , dated to 4500 BC .
These same sites also contain   remnants of the world 's earliest evidence of crushed grapes .
In Egypt , wine  became a भाग  of recorded history , playing an important role in ancient ceremonial life .
Traces of wild wine dating from the second and first millennia BCE  have भी महरूम मिला in  China .
Moroccan wine  kasher  label 1930
The Jewish tradition and use of kosher wine is dating back  to biblical टाइम्स .
The long  इतिहास of the उपयोग और उत्पादन  of wine throughout ancient Israel is backed up by archeological evidence .
Within the Jewish  diaspora समुदायों  all around the globe , the traditional and religious use of kosher wine continued to this day .
Wine , linked in myth to Dionysus / Bacchus , was common in ancient Greece and Rome , and many of today 's major  wine-producing regions  of Western Europe were established with Phoenician and , later , Roman plantations .
Winemaking technology improved considerably during the time of the Roman Empire : many grape varieties and cultivation techniques were known  ; the  design of the wine press advanced ; and barrels were developed for storing and shipping wine .
Rashi , a medieval French rabbi and called the `` father '' of all commentaries that followed on the Talmud and the Tanakh , earned his  जीना  as a vintner .
Following the decline of Rome and its industrial-scale wine production for export , the Christian Church in medieval Europe also became a firm supporter of wine , necessary for celebration of the Catholic Mass . Whereas wine was forbidden in medieval Islamic cultures , its use in  ईसाई libation थी widely tolerated  .
Geber and  अन्य  Muslim chemists pioneered the distillation of wine for Islamic medicinal and industrial purposes such as perfume .
Wine production gradually increased , with consumption burgeoning from  the 15th  century onwards .
Wine production survived  the विनाशकारी  Phylloxera louse of 1887 and eventually spread to numerous regions throughout the world .
Districts  of  West Bengal
The  भारतीय राज्य of वेस्ट बंगाल  borders with Nepal , Bhutan , Bangladesh and the Indian states of Bihar , Jharkhand , Odisha , Assam and Sikkim .
The Himalayas  झूठ  in the north of the state and the Bay of Bengal is at the south .
In between them , the river Ganges flows eastwards and its main distributary , the Hooghly River , flows  दक्षिण to पहुँचें the खाड़ी of बंगाल .
The Siliguri Corridor , which connects North-East India with rest  of the इण्डिया , झूठ in the  North Bengal region of the state .
Geographically , West Bengal is divided into a variety of regions— Darjeeling Himalayan hill region , Terai and  द्वार प्रदेश , उत्तर बंगाल मैदान , rarh प्रदेश , पश्चिमी पठार और  high lands , coastal plains , Sunderbans and the Ganges Delta .
In 1947 , when India gained independence , the state of West Bengal was formed with 14 districts , as per partition plan of the then  बंगाल प्रांत  of British India .
The former princely state Koch Bihar joined as a district in 1950 , and  the  former French enclave Chandannagore joined as part of the Hooghly district in 1954 .
The States Reorganisation Act of 1956 led to addition of Purulia district to the state and  to enlargement of वेस्ट दिनाजपुर ज़िला  .
Later , larger  जिले  such as West Dinajpur , 24 Parganas and Midnapore were bifurcated .
वेस्ट बंगाल is अभी विभाजित into उन्नीस जिले अंतर्गत तीन विभाजन .
Districts are administered by District Magistrates , and divisions  हैं administered  by Divisional Commissioners .
Kolkata , the  पूंजी of the राज्य , constitutes  the Kolkata district .
Other districts are  further विभाजित into प्रशासनिक  units such as subdivisions and blocks , administered by SDO and BDO , respectively .
The  पंचायती  Raj has a three-tier structure in the state .
The  परमाणु  unit is called a Gram Panchayat , which is the Panchayat organization for a collection of villages .
The block-level organizations are called Panchayat Samiti ,  और the district-level  organizations are named Zilla Parishad .
The Caribbean ( or ; ; ; or  अधिक commonly antilles ) is  a region that consists of the Caribbean Sea , its islands ( some surrounded by the Caribbean Sea and some bordering both the Caribbean Sea and the North Atlantic Ocean ) , and the surrounding coasts .
The region is southeast of the Gulf of Mexico and the North American mainland , east of Central America , and north  of दक्षिण अमेरिका  .
situated largely on the caribbean  Plate , the region comprises more than 700 islands , islets , reefs , and cays .
( See the  सूची  . )
These islands generally form island arcs that delineate the  पूर्वी और उत्तरी  edges of the Caribbean Sea .
The Caribbean islands , consisting of the Greater Antilles on the north and the Lesser Antilles on the south and east ( including the Leeward Antilles ) , are part of the somewhat larger West Indies grouping , which  भी शामिल the lucayan द्वीपसमूह ( comprising  the Bahamas and Turks and Caicos Islands ) north of the Greater Antilles and Caribbean Sea .
In a  wider भाव , the मेनलैंड  countries of Belize and Guyana – historically and culturally part of the British West Indies – may be included .
Geopolitically , the Caribbean islands are usually regarded as a subregion of North America and are organized into 30 territories  सहित sovereign  states , overseas departments , and dependencies .
From  जनवरी 3 , 1958 , to may 31 , 1962 , वहीँ थी a short-lived  country called the Federation of the West Indies composed of ten English-speaking Caribbean territories , all of which were then UK dependencies .
The West Indies cricket team  continues to represent  many of those nations .
इस is a सूची  of the 221 towns and 13 cities in the U.S. state of New Hampshire .
For each town/city , the table lists the county to  जिससे it belongs  , its date of incorporation , its population according to the 2010 census , its form of government , and its principal villages .
Cities  हैं indicated  in boldface .
Cities and towns are treated  identically  under state law .
Cities  हैं बस कस्बों जिनकी रूप  of government was changed by a special act of the New Hampshire legislature .
However , towns currently are able to change their form of government by simple voter approval of a new municipal  चार्टर , साथ अनेक  of the more populous towns having already done so .
The main  स्लेव रूट  in medieval Africa .
This article discusses systems , history , and effects of  गुलामी भीतर अफ़्रीकी  .
See Arab slave trade , Atlantic slave  व्यापार , maafa , और गुलामी  in contemporary Africa for other discussions .
`` Slave transport in  अफ़्रीकी ''  .
Europeans usually did not  डालें the आंतरिक  regions .
Slavery in Africa has existed throughout the continent for many centuries , and  continues in the वर्तमान दिन  .
Systems of servitude and slavery were common in many parts of the  महाद्वीप , as वे  were in much of the ancient world .
In most African societies where slavery was prevalent , the enslaved  लोगों यहूद largely treated  as indentured servants and not treated as chattel slaves .
When the Arab slave trade and Atlantic slave trade began ,  अनेक of the लोकल स्लेव प्रणालियों  changed and began supplying captives for slave markets outside of Africa .
Slavery in historical Africa was practiced in many different forms and some of these  do नहीं clearly अनुरूप the परिभाषाएं of  slavery elsewhere in the world .
कर्ज़ गुलामी  , enslavement of war captives , military slavery , and criminal slavery were all practiced in various parts of Africa .
Although there had been some trans-Saharan trade from the interior of Sub-Saharan Africa to other regions , slavery was a small part of the economic life of many societies in Africa  जबतक the परिचय of transcontinental स्लेव ट्रेड ( अरब और  Atlantic ) .
Slave practices were  again रूपांतरित साथ यूरोपीय  colonization of Africa and the formal abolition of slavery in the early 1900s .
Brett Lorenzo Favre ( born October 10 , 1969 ) is a former American football quarterback who spent the majority of his career with the Green Bay Packers of  the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग  ( NFL ) .
He was a 20-year veteran of the NFL , having played quarterback for the Atlanta Falcons ( 1991 ) , Green Bay Packers ( 1992 – 2007 ) , New York  jets ( 2008 ) और मिनेसोटा  Vikings ( 2009 – 2010 ) .
Favre is the only quarterback in NFL history to throw for over 70,000 yards , over 500 touchdowns , over 300 interceptions , over 6,000  completions  , and over 10,000 pass attempts .
Favre started at the quarterback position for the University of Southern Mississippi for four years before being selected in the second round of the  1991 एनएफएल ड्राफ्ट by अटलांटा ( 33rd overall  ) .
He was traded  to ग्रीन खाड़ी on फ़रवरी  10 , 1992 , for the 19th pick in the 1992 NFL Draft .
Favre became  the पैकर्स ' starting  quarterback in the fourth game of the 1992 season , stepping in for injured quarterback Don Majkowski , and started every game through the 2007 season .
He was traded to the New York Jets and started at quarterback  लिये the 2008  season before signing with the Vikings on August 18 , 2009 as their starting quarterback .
He made an NFL record  297 लगातार  starts ( 321 including playoffs ) .
He is the only player to win the AP Most Valuable Player three consecutive times (  1995–97  ) .
He has led teams to eight division championships ( 1995 , 1996 , 1997 , 2002 , 2003 , 2004  , 2007 , 2009 ) , पाँच nfc चैंपियनशिप खेल  ( 1995 , 1996 , 1997 , 2007 , 2009 ) , and two Super Bowl appearances ( Super Bowl XXXI , Super Bowl XXXII ) , winning one ( Super Bowl XXXI ) .
He holds many NFL records , including most career touchdown passes , most career passing  yards , most career pass  completions , most career pass attempts , most career interceptions thrown , most consecutive starts by a player , most consecutive starts by a quarterback , most career victories as a starting quarterback , most sacked , and most fumbles .
He is also referred to by his nickname ``  the gunslinger  '' .
Salesforce.com Inc. is a global enterprise software company headquartered in San  फ्रांसिस्को  , California .
Though best known for its customer relationship management ( CRM ) product , Salesforce  रै भी विस्तारित into the `` सोशल एंटरप्राइज़ एरिना ''  through acquisitions .
It is currently ranked the most innovative company in  अमेरिका by फोर्ब्स पत्रिका  , as well as number 27 in Fortunes magazine 's 100 Best Companies to Work For in 2012 .
As of April 2013 , the company is ranked sixth in providing services in  विपणन और ग्राहक सेवा  automation .
It is listed on the  नई यॉर्क भण्डार एक्सचेंज  and is a constituent of the S & P 500 index .
Seahorse is the title given   to 54 species of marine fish in the genus Hippocampus .
`` Hippocampus '' comes  इससे the प्राचीन यूनानी  hippos meaning `` horse '' and kampos meaning `` sea monster '' .
Earth is the third planet from the Sun , and   the densest and fifth-largest of the eight planets in the Solar System .
It is also the largest of the Solar System 's four  स्थलीय  planets .
It is sometimes  referred to as the संसार  or the Blue Planet .
Earth formed approximately 4.54 billion years ago , and  जीवन appeared on इसके  surface within its first billion years .
Earth 's  जीवमंडल तब significantly  altered the atmospheric and other basic physical conditions , which enabled the proliferation of organisms as well as the formation of the ozone layer , which together with Earth 's magnetic field blocked harmful solar radiation , and permitted formerly ocean-confined life to move safely to land .
The physical  गुण of the धरती , as  well as its geological history and orbit , have allowed life to persist .
Estimates on how  much longer  the planet will be able to continue to support life range from , to as long as .
Earth 's lithosphere is divided into several rigid segments , or tectonic plates , that  migrate आरपार the सतह over अवधि  of many millions of years .
About 71 % of the surface is covered by salt water oceans , with the remainder  consisting of  continents and islands which together have many lakes and other sources of water that contribute to the hydrosphere .
Earth  's डंडे  are mostly covered with ice that is the solid ice of the Antarctic ice sheet and the sea ice that is the polar ice packs .
The planet 's interior remains active , with a solid iron inner core  ,  a liquid outer core that generates the magnetic field , and a thick layer of relatively solid mantle .
Earth gravitationally interacts with other objects in  स्पेस , विशेषकर the सूर्य और  the Moon .
दौरान एक कक्षा around the सूर्य , the धरती घुमाता परिचय इसके अपना अक्ष 366.26 टाइम्स , बनाना 365.26 सौर दिनों , or एक sidereal साल .
The  धरती 's अक्ष of रोटेशन is tilted 23.4° दूर इससे the लम्बवत of इसके कक्षीय प्लेन , producing मौसमी विसंगतियाँ on the ग्रह 's सतह साथ a काल of एक तीव्र साल ( 365.24 सौर दिनों ) .
The Moon is Earth 's only   natural satellite .
It began   orbiting the Earth about .
The Moon 's gravitational interaction with Earth stimulates  समंदर tides , stabilizes the अक्षीय झुकाव ,  and gradually slows the planet 's rotation .
The planet is home to  लाखो of प्रजाति  of life , including humans .
Both the mineral resources of the planet and the products of the biosphere contribute resources   that are used to support a global human population .
These  निवासियों  are grouped into about 200 independent sovereign states , which interact through diplomacy , travel , trade , and military action .
Human cultures have developed many views of the  ग्रह , सहित इसके personification  as a planetary deity , its shape as flat , its position as the center of the universe , and in the modern Gaia Principle , as a single , self-regulating organism in its own right .
The Magician  इससे the waite-smith  tarot , who is depicted using the same tools that modern Wiccans use .
in the neopagan धर्म  of Wicca , a range of magical tools are used in ritual practice .
Each of these tools has  अलग उपयोग और एसोसिएशन  , and are used primarily to direct magical energies .
They are used  at an वेदी  , inside a magic circle .
In  परंपरागत gardnerian  Wicca , the tools are often divided into personal tools , which are for use by , and owned by , an individual Wiccan , and coven tools , used collectively by the coven .
This practice may derive partly from Masonic traditions ( such as the use of the Square and  compasses ) , इससे जिससे wicca draws कुछ  material , and partly from the rituals of the Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn .
The latter made much use of material from  मध्यकालीन grimoires ऐसे as the कुंजी  of Solomon , which has many illustrations of magical tools and instructions for their preparation .
Typical  eukaryotic  cell .
Cellular respiration is the set of the metabolic  प्रतिक्रियाएँ और  processes that take place in the cells of organisms to convert biochemical energy from nutrients into adenosine triphosphate ( ATP ) , and then release waste products .
The reactions involved in respiration are catabolic reactions , which break large molecules into smaller ones , releasing energy in the process as weak so-called `` high-energy '' bonds are replaced by stronger bonds  in the उत्पाद  .
Respiration is one of the key ways a cell gains  उपयोगी उर्जा to ईंधन सेल्यूलर  activity .
Cellular respiration is considered an exothermic  रेडॉक्स  reaction .
The overall reaction is broken into  अनेक छोटी ones जब it occurs  in the body , most of which are redox reactions themselves .
Although technically , cellular respiration  is a दहन  reaction , it clearly does not resemble one when it occurs in a living cell .
This difference is  क्युकी it occurs  in many separate steps .
While the overall reaction is a combustion reaction , no single reaction that  comprises it is a  combustion reaction .
Nutrients that are commonly used by animal and plant cells in respiration include sugar , amino acids and fatty acids , and a common oxidizing agent ( electron acceptor ) is  आणविक ऑक्सीजन ( o2 )  .
The energy stored in ATP ( its third phosphate group is weakly bonded to the rest of the molecule and is cheaply broken allowing stronger bonds to form , thereby transferring energy for use by the cell ) can then be used to drive processes requiring energy , including biosynthesis ,  locomotion  or transportation of molecules across cell membranes .
A stored-pressure  आग extinguisher  made by Amerex
A British fire extinguisher with ID sign , call point and fire  कार्रवाई चिह्न
A fire extinguisher , flame extinguisher , or simply an extinguisher , is an active fire protection device used to extinguish or control small fires , often in  आपात परिस्थितियों  .
It is not intended for use on an out-of-control fire , such as one which has reached the ceiling , endangers the user ( i.e. , no escape  रूट , धुँआ , विस्फोट जोखिम  , etc . ) , or otherwise requires the expertise of a fire department .
Typically , a fire extinguisher consists of a hand-held cylindrical pressure vessel containing an  एजेंट जिससे  can be discharged to extinguish a fire .
In the United States , fire  extinguishers , in सब इमारतें अन्य than  houses , are generally required to be serviced and inspected by a Fire Protection service company at least annually .
Some jurisdictions require more frequent  सेवा लिये आग  extinguishers .
The servicer places a tag on the  extinguisher to indicate the प्रकार of सेवा performed  ( annual inspection , recharge , new fire extinguisher ) and when .
वहीँ हैं दो प्रमुख प्रकार of  fire extinguishers : stored pressure and cartridge-operated .
In stored pressure units , the expellant is stored in the same chamber as   the firefighting agent itself .
Depending on the agent used ,  अलग  propellants are used .
With dry chemical extinguishers , nitrogen is typically used ;  जल और झाग extinguishers  typically use air .
Stored pressure fire extinguishers are  the सबसे आम  type .
Cartridge-operated extinguishers contain the  expellant गैस in a  separate cartridge that is punctured prior to discharge , exposing the propellant to the extinguishing agent .
This type is not as common , used primarily in areas such as industrial facilities , where they receive  higher-than-average उपयोग  .
They  have the लाभ of सरल और संकेत  recharge , allowing an operator to discharge the extinguisher , recharge it , and return to the fire in a reasonable amount of time .
Unlike stored pressure types , these extinguishers use compressed carbon dioxide instead of nitrogen , although nitrogen cartridges are  प्रयुक्त on  low temperature ( -60 rated ) models .
Cartridge operated extinguishers are available in dry chemical and dry powder types  in the u.S. और in जल  , wetting agent , foam , dry chemical ( classes ABC and B.C . ) , and dry powder ( class D ) types in the rest of the world .
आग extinguishers  are further divided into handheld and cart-mounted , also called wheeled extinguishers .
Handheld extinguishers weigh from 0.5 to 14 kilograms ( 1 to 30 pounds ) , and are   hence , easily portable by hand .
Cart-mounted  इकाई typically  weigh 23+ kilograms ( 50+ pounds ) .
These wheeled models are most commonly  मिला at निर्माण साइट ,  airport runways , heliports , as well as docks and marinas .
Native Americans in the United States are the indigenous peoples in North America  भीतर the सीमाएँ of  the present-day continental United States , Alaska , and the island state of Hawaii .
They are composed of numerous , distinct Native American tribes and ethnic groups , many of which  जीवित  as intact political communities .
The terms used to refer  to देशी अमेरिकी  have been controversial .
According to a 1995 U.S. Census Census_Bureau Bureau Census_Bureau set of home interviews , most of the respondents with an expressed preference refer to themselves as American  इंडियंस ( or बस इंडियंस ) , और इस पद रै महरूम अपनाया by प्रमुख अखबारों  and some academic groups ; however , this term does not typically include Native Hawaiians or certain Alaskan Natives , such as Aleut , Yup'ik , or Inuit peoples .
चूंकि the समाप्त of the 15th  century , the migration of Europeans to the Americas , and their importation of Africans as slaves , has led to centuries of conflict and adjustment between Old and New World societies .
Europeans  निर्मित सबसे of the जल्दी लिखा ऐतिहासिक  record about Native Americans after the colonists ' immigration to the Americas .
Many Native Americans lived as  hunter-gatherer समाजों और बताई  their histories by oral traditions .
In many groups , women carried out sophisticated  cultivation of numerous किस्में  of staple crops : maize , beans and squash .
The indigenous cultures were quite different from those of the agrarian , proto-industrial , mostly Christian immigrants from   western Eurasia .
Many Native cultures were  matrilineal ; the लोगों occupied lands लिये  use of the entire community , for hunting or agriculture .
Europeans at that time had patriarchal cultures and  had developed  concepts of individual property rights with respect to land that were extremely different .
The differences in cultures between the established Native Americans and immigrant Europeans , as well as shifting alliances among different nations of each culture through the centuries , caused extensive  राजनैतिक टेंशन  , ethnic violence and social disruption .
The Native Americans  suffered ऊँची fatalities  from the contact with infectious Eurasian diseases , to which they had no acquired immunity .
Epidemics after European  सम्पर्क caused the  greatest loss of life for indigenous populations .
Estimates of the pre-Columbian population of what today constitutes the U.S. vary  significantly , ranging इससे 1 लाख  to 18 million .
After the colonies revolted  विरूद्ध ग्रेट ब्रिटेन और  established the United States of America , President George Washington and Henry Knox conceived of the idea of `` civilizing '' Native Americans in preparation for assimilation as U.S. citizens .
Assimilation ( whether voluntary as with the Choctaw , or forced ) became a consistent policy  through अमरीकी administrations  .
During the 19th century , the ideology of manifest destiny became integral to the American  राष्ट्रवादी गति  .
Expansion of European-American populations to the west after the  अमरीकी क्रान्ति resulted in increasing  pressure on Native American lands , warfare between the groups , and rising tensions .
In 1830 , the U.S. Congress passed the Indian Removal Act , authorizing the government to relocate Native Americans from their homelands within established states to lands west of the  मिसिसिपी नदी  , accommodating European-American expansion .
The first European Americans to encounter the western interior  जनजातियों यहूद generally  fur traders and trappers .
There were also  जेसुइट प्रचारकों  active in the Northern Tier .
As United States expansion reached into the American West , settler and miner migrants came into increasing conflict with the Great  जलाशय , ग्रेट  Plains , and other Western tribes .
These were complex nomadic  संस्कृतियों आधारित on  horse culture and seasonal bison hunting .
They carried out strong resistance to United States incursions in the decades after the American Civil War , in a series of  भारतीय युद्धों , जिससे यहूद बारंबार  up until the 1890s , but continued into the 20th century .
The transcontinental railroad brought more  non-natives into  tribal land in the west .
Over time , the U.S. forced a series  of  treaties and land cessions by the tribes , and established reservations for them in many western states .
U.S. agents  प्रोत्साहित देशी अमेरिकी to अपनाना european-style  farming and similar pursuits , but European-American agricultural technology of the time was inadequate for often dry reservation lands .
In 1924 , Native Americans who were  नहीं already u.S.  citizens were granted citizenship by Congress .
Contemporary Native Americans have a unique relationship with the United States because they may be members of nations , tribes , or  bands with  sovereignty and treaty rights .
Central America  (  ) is the central geographic region of the Americas .
It is  the southernmost , isthmian portion of the  North American continent , which connects with South America on the southeast .
When  माना भाग of  the unified continental model , it is considered a subcontinent .
Central America consists of seven countries : Belize , Costa Rica , El Salvador ,  ग्वाटेमाला , होंडुरास , निकारागुआ  , and Panama .
सेंट्रल अमेरिका is भाग  of the Mesoamerican biodiversity hotspot , which extends from northern Guatemala through central Panama .
It is bordered by Mexico to the north , the Caribbean Sea to the east , the North   Pacific Ocean to the west , and Colombia to the south-east .
Central America is an area of , or almost 0.1 % of the  धरती  's surface .
As of  2009  , its population was estimated at 41,739,000 .
It has a density of 77 people per  वर्गाकार  kilometer .
Scrubs is an American  medical  comedy-drama television series created by Bill Lawrence that aired from October 2 , 2001 to March 17 , 2010 on NBC and later ABC .
The series follows  the जीवनदान of कर्मचारी  at the fictional Sacred Heart teaching hospital .
The title is a play on surgical scrubs and a  पद लिये a low-ranking  person because at the beginning of the series , most of the main characters were medical interns .
The series features fast-paced  पटकथा , slapstick , और surreal vignettes  presented mostly as the daydreams of the central character , Dr. John `` J.D . ''
Dorian , who is played by Zach  braff  .
Actors starring alongside Braff in the first eight seasons included Sarah Chalke , Donald Faison , Neil Flynn , Ken Jenkins , John C. McGinley and Judy  रेयेस  .
The series has also featured multiple guest appearances by film actors , such as Brendan Fraser ,  हीथर ग्राहम , और  Colin Farrell .
In the ninth season , many new cast  सदस्यों  were introduced and the show setting moved from a hospital to a medical school .
Out of the original cast , only Braff , Faison and McGinley became regular cast members , while the others with the  एक्सेप्शन of रेयेस  , made guest appearances .
Braff appeared in six episodes of the ninth season   before departing .
Kerry Bishé , Eliza Coupe , Dave Franco and Michael Mosley became series  regulars  with Bishé becoming the show 's new narrator .
Scrubs  premiered on  October 2 , 2001 on NBC .
the  series received a Peabody Award in 2006 .
During the seventh season , NBC announced that it  होता नहीं नवीनीकृत the दिखाएँ  .
Shortly after the seventh season finale , ABC announced it had picked  up the आठवीं ऋतु  of the series , which began January 6 , 2009 .
The  नवीं ऋतु premiered  on December 1 , 2009 .
On May  14  , 2010 , ABC announced it had officially canceled Scrubs .
An 1817 Boulton & Watt beam blowing engine , used in Netherton at the ironworks of M W  grazebrook  .
Re-erected on the A38 ( M )  in बर्मिंघम  , UK
A steam engine is a heat engine that performs mechanical work  using  steam as its working fluid .
Using boiling water to produce mechanical motion goes back about 2,000  सालो , लकिन जल्दी  devices were not practical .
Since the late  1700s भाप इंजन  have become a major source of mechanical power .
The first applications were removing  जल इससे  mines .
in 1781 जेम्स वाट patented  a steam engine that produced continuous rotative motion .
These 10 hp  इंजन सक्रिय  a wide range of manufacturing machinery to be powered .
The engines  could be sited anywhere  that water and coal or wood fuel could be obtained .
by  1883 , engines that could provide 10,000 hp had become feasible .
Steam engines could also be applied to vehicles such as traction engines and the  रेल इंजनों जिससे हैं  commonly just called steam engines outside America .
The stationary steam engine was a key component of the Industrial Revolution , allowing  कारखानों to locate जहाँ  water power was unavailable .
Today steam turbines generate about 90 % of the  इलेक्ट्रिक शक्ति  in the United States using a variety of heat sources .
Steam engines are external   combustion engines , where the working fluid is separate from the combustion products .
Non-combustion heat sources such as solar power , nuclear power or  geothermal  energy may be used .
The ideal  ऊष्मागतिक साईकिल प्रयुक्त to  analyze this process is called the Rankine cycle .
In the cycle , water is heated  into भाप in a  boiler until it reaches a high pressure .
When expanded through pistons or turbines ,  mechanical  work is done .
The reduced-pressure  भाप  is then condensed and pumped back into the boiler .
In general usage , the term steam engine can refer to either the  एकीकृत भाप पौधे  ( including boilers etc . ) such as railway steam locomotives and portable engines , or may refer to the piston or turbine machinery alone , as in the beam engine and stationary steam engine .
Specialized devices such as steam hammers and steam pile drivers are dependent on steam supplied  इससे a पृथक  boiler .
A  मिल इंजन  from Stott Park Bobbin Mill , Cumbria , England
A steam locomotive in Germany .This class of engine was built in 1942 – 1950  और संचालित  commercially until 1988 .
`` Move Bitch '' ( edited version titled `` Move B***h '' or simply `` Move '' ) is  the तीसरा  official single from rapper Ludacris ' album Word of Mouf .
The  सिंगल सुविधाएँ  Mystikal and I-20 .
The single reached # 10 on the Billboard Hot 100 making it Ludacris 's first top ten hit on the chart , it also reached # 3 on Hot Rap  ट्रैक्स और # 3 on hot r & b/hip-hop  Singles & Tracks .
Puerto Rican  reggaeton duo maicol  & Manuel sampled the song on `` Hoy Me Levanté '' on their 2002 release Yakaleo .
The  सोंग is भी प्रदर्शित  in episode 2 , Series One of British teen comedy/drama Skins .
The song  थी भी प्रयुक्त  by World Wrestling Entertainment superstar Montel Vontavious Porter during his short stint in Ring of Honor .
It was also used for April Hunter in various  स्वतंत्र  circuits .
It was featured in  the फिल्म atl अभिनीत  T.I . , and ' Hancock , ' although in the latter , the clean version was used .
A snippet of the song  is निभाई दौरान ट्रैफ़िक  reports on many radio stations , usually carrying an urban/hip-hop format .
Retired  एनबीए स्टार और अभी  ESPN analyst Jalen Rose is featured in the music video .
The song has been covered by rock band  प्रारंभ ट्रबल  , on their album Every Solution Has Its Problem .
It was featured on British sitcom The  inbetweeners  when the characters Jay and Neil took Will on a 'pussy patrol ' in Jay 's red Nissan Micra .
It was sampled by Girl Talk on the first  track  of his album All Day , `` Oh No '' .
Elizabeth II ( Elizabeth Alexandra Mary ; born 21 April 1926 ) is the constitutional monarch of 16 sovereign states ,  ज्ञात as the राष्ट्रमंडल realms , और  their territories and dependencies , and head of the 54-member Commonwealth of Nations .
She is Supreme Governor of the Church of England and , in some of her realms , carries the  शीर्षक of defender of the  Faith as part of her full title .
On her accession on 6 February 1952 , Elizabeth became Head of the Commonwealth and queen regnant  of सात स्वतंत्र राष्ट्रमंडल  countries : the United Kingdom , Canada , Australia , New Zealand , South Africa , Pakistan and Ceylon .
From 1956 to 1992 , the number of her realms varied as territories gained  स्वतंत्रता और कुछ realms  became republics .
At present , in addition to the first four aforementioned countries , Elizabeth is Queen of Jamaica , Barbados ,  the बहामा , हरा , पापुआ नई गिनी , the सुलेमान आइलैंड्स , तुवालू , संत लूसिया  , Saint Vincent and the Grenadines , Belize , Antigua and Barbuda and Saint Kitts and Nevis .
Her reign of years is currently the second longest for a British  monarch ; तभी महारानी विक्टोरिया  has reigned longer at over 63 years .
Elizabeth was born in London and educated privately at  घर  .
Her father acceded to the throne as George VI  in 1936 on the abdication of उसके  brother Edward VIII , from which time she was the heir presumptive .
She  began to undertake पब्लिक  duties during the Second World War , in which she served in the Auxiliary Territorial Service .
in 1947 , वो शादीशुदा प्रिंस फिलिप , ड्यूक of एडिनबर्ग  , with whom she has four children : Charles , Anne , Andrew , and Edward .
उसके राजतिलक सेवा  took place in 1953 and was the first to be televised .
The Queen 's many historic visits and  बैठक शामिल a राज्य  visit to the Republic of Ireland and reciprocal visits to and from the Pope .
The Queen has seen major  संवैधानिक परिवर्तन in उसके realms  , such as devolution in the United Kingdom and the patriation of the Canadian constitution .
Times of personal significance have included the births and marriages of her children , the births of her grandchildren , the investiture of the Prince of Wales , and the  जश्न of माइलस्टोन  such as her Silver , Golden , and Diamond Jubilees in 1977 , 2002 , and 2012 , respectively .
Major events in the Queen 's reign have  शामिल the परेशानियों in  Northern Ireland , the Falklands War , wars with Iraq and the War in Afghanistan .
There have been times of personal sorrow for her which include the death of her father at 56 , the assassination of Prince Philip 's uncle , Lord Mountbatten , the breakdown of her children 's marriages in 1992 ( a year deemed her annus horribilis ) , the death in 1997 of her former daughter-in-law , Diana ,  राजकुमारी of वेल्स , और the मौतों  of her mother and sister in 2002 .
The Queen has occasionally faced severe press criticism of the royal family and republican  sentiments , लकिन support  for the monarchy and her personal popularity remain high .
christianity is the  largest religion listed by Australians in the national census .
In the 2011 Census , 61.1 % of Australians were   listed as Christian .
Australia  रै  no official state religion and the Australian Constitution protects freedom of religion .
the उपस्थिति  of Christianity in Australia began with the arrival of the First Fleet of British convicts in 1788 .
The religion grew to account for 96.1 % of the national population at the time of the Federation   of Australia in 1901 .
The Anglican Church of Australia ( formerly known as the Church of  इंग्लैण्ड in ऑस्ट्रेलिया ) remained the largest denomination जबतक  1986 , when it was surpassed by the Roman Catholic Church in Australia .
Post-war multiculturalism and a decline in religious observance among some sections of the population  have diversified  the demographics of religion in Australia .
Of the roughly 61 % identifying as Christian in 2011 , the largest denominations were either Roman Catholic ( 25 % ) or  anglican (  17 % ) , with the third largest denomination being the 5 % affiliated with the Uniting Church in Australia .
Post-war immigration has grown the numbers belonging to churches like the Greek Orthodox Archdiocese of  ऑस्ट्रेलिया और वहीँ हैं विशाल और growing पेंटेकोस्टल  groups , such as Sydney 's Hillsong Church .
The festivals of Easter and Christmas are public  छुट्टियाँ in ऑस्ट्रेलिया  .
Around a quarter of students attend church schools and Christian organisations are leading non-government providers of health and welfare services through organisations like Catholic Health Australia , Anglicare , UnitingCare Australia  , the मोक्ष फौज और  St Vincent de Paul Society .
Historically significant Australian  ईसाइयों have शामिल रेव dr जॉन  Dunmore Lang , Saint Mary MacKillop , Catherine Helen Spence , Pastor David Unaipon , the Reverend John Flynn and Pastor Sir Doug Nicholls .
High profile contemporary Australian Christians include : Tim Costello Baptist minister and current CEO of World Vision  ऑस्ट्रेलिया , फ़्रैंक ब्रेनन , जेसुइट इंसान अधिकारों वकील , कार्डिनल जार्ज pell  , Catholic Archbishop of Sydney , Phillip Aspinall the current Anglican Primate and Archbishop of Brisbane , Kevin Rudd , former Labor Prime Minister , and Tony Abbott , leader for the Federal Opposition Liberal Party .
Charter creating Collegiate School , which  became  Yale College , October 9 , 1701
Yale University is a private Ivy League research university located  in नई  Haven , Connecticut .
Founded in 1701 in the  उपनिवेश of कनेक्टिकट ,  the university is the third-oldest institution of higher education in the United States .
Originally  चार्टर्ड as the  `` Collegiate School '' , the institution traces its roots to 17th-century clergymen who sought to establish a college to train clergy and political leaders for the colony .
In 1718 , the College was renamed `` Yale College '' to  सम्मान a तोहफा इससे elihu yale  , a governor of the British East India Company .
In 1861 , the  ग्रैजुएट स्कूल of कला और sciences became the पहला  U.S. institution to award the PhD . Yale became a founding member of the Association of American Universities in 1900 .
Yale College was transformed , beginning in the 1930s , through the establishment of  आवासीय  colleges : 12 now exist and two more are planned .
Yale employs over 1,100 faculty to teach and advise about 5,300 undergraduate and 6,100  ग्रैजुएट और पेशेवर  students .
Almost all  tenured professors  teach undergraduate courses , more than 2,000 of which are offered annually .
The University  's एसेट शामिल an  endowment valued at $ 19.4 billion , the second-largest of any academic institution in the world .
Yale 's system of more than two dozen libraries  holds 12.5  million volumes .
49 Nobel Laureates have been  संबद्ध साथ the विश्वविद्यालयों  as students , faculty , and staff .
Yale has produced many notable  alumni , सहित  five U.S. Presidents , 19 U.S. Supreme Court Justices , and several foreign heads of state .
At the graduate level , Yale Law School ,  yale स्कूल of  Art , and Yale School of Drama are consistently ranked the top programs in their field .
Yale Law School is the most selective  विधि स्कूल  in the United States .
Yale  विद्यार्थी compete intercollegiately  as the Yale Bulldogs in the NCAA Division I Ivy League .
The oldest  intercollegiate  athletic event in the United States is the Yale-Harvard regatta .
Artemisia tridentata ( `` big sagebrush '' or `` sagebrush '' ) is an aromatic shrub from the family Asteraceae , which grows in arid and semi-arid conditions  , throughout a दायरा of ठंडा मरुस्थल , स्तान , और पहाड़ habitats  in the Intermountain West of North America .
the देशी नाम `` sagebrush '' is भी प्रयुक्त लिये अनेक सम्बन्धित सदस्यों of the genus artemisia , ऐसे as कैलिफ़ोर्निया sagebrush ( artemisia californica  ) .
Big Sagebrush and other Artemisia  प्रजाति  are the dominant plants across large portions of the Great Basin , covering some 422,000 square miles in 11 western U.S. & Canadian states .
It is the state  पुष्प  of Nevada .
Sagebrush provides food and habitat for a  किस्में of प्रजाति , ऐसे as ऋषि  grouse , pronghorn antelope , gray vireo , pygmy rabbit , and mule deer .
Big sagebrush was used as an herbal medicine by Native Americans throughout the Intermountain West of North  america—especially लिये preventing संक्रमण in wounds  , stopping internal bleeding , and treating headaches and colds .
Chemically , the active  औषधीय constituents  include camphor , terpenoids , and tannins .
Several major threats exist to sage brush ecosystems , including human settlements , conversion to agricultural land , livestock grazing , invasive plant  प्रजाति , wildfires  , and climate change .
याहू ! मेल is  a free email service offered by the American search engine company Yahoo !
It was launched in 1997 , and , according to  comscore , याहू  ! Mail is the third-largest web-based email service with 281 million users as of December 2012 .
Currently , Yahoo ! offers three versions  of याहू ! मेल  .
The traditional `` Yahoo ! Mail Classic '' continues the availability of  the असली इंटरफ़ेस  introduced in 1997 .
A version  introduced in 2005 शामिल  a new Ajax interface , drag-and-drop features , improved search functionality , keyboard shortcuts , address auto-complete , tabs , and other updated features .
In October 2010 , Yahoo ! released a beta version of Yahoo ! Mail , which included improvements to the design , performance , search functionality  , और फेसबुक  integration .
In May 2011 , beta testing for the new version stopped , and it became the default interface  लिये याहू  ! Mail .
In early 2008 , Yahoo ! began offering unlimited mail storage to its users in response to heated competition in the free  web-mail मार्केट खण्ड  .
On June 27 , 2009 , Yahoo ! Messenger was integrated with  याहू ! मेल  .
Tacoma ( , ) is a mid-sized urban port city and the county seat of Pierce County  , वॉशिंगटन , संयुक्त  States .
The city is on Washington 's Puget Sound ,  दक्षिणपश्चिम of सिएटल  , northeast of the state capital , Olympia , and northwest of Mount Rainier National Park .
The population was 198,397 , according to the  2010 जनसांख्यिकी  .
Tacoma is the second-largest city in the Puget  ध्वनि क्षेत्रफल और the  third largest in the state .
Tacoma also serves as the center of  कारोबार कार्यकलाप लिये the दक्षिण ध्वनि  region , which has a population of around 1 million people .
Tacoma adopted its name after the nearby Mount  rainier , originally  called Mount Tahoma .
It is known as the `` City of Destiny '' because the area was chosen to be the western terminus of the Northern Pacific  Railroad  in the late 19th century .
The decision of the railroad was  बहकावे by टकोमा  's neighboring deep-water harbor , Commencement Bay .
By connecting  the  bay with the railroad Tacoma 's motto became `` When rails meet sails . ''
Today Commencement  खाड़ी serves the बंदरगाहों of टकोमा  , a center of international trade on the Pacific Coast and Washington state 's largest port .
Like most central cities , Tacoma  suffered a  prolonged decline in the mid-20th century as a result of suburbanization and divestment .
Since the 1990s , developments in the downtown core include the University of Washington Tacoma ; Tacoma Link , the first modern electric light rail service in the state ; the state 's highest density of art and history  museums ; and a restored urban  waterfront , the Thea Foss Waterway .
With a long history of blue-collar labor politics — from the railroad workers of the 19th century , to the longshoremen of the 20th  सदी , to the मजदूर तैयार मजदूर of आज — टकोमा रै  long been known for its rough , gritty image .
A song about Tacoma , `` Thrice All American '' , by American singer-songwriter and former resident Neko Case , describes it as `` a dusty old jewel in the South Puget Sound / where the factories   churn / and the timber 's all cut down '' .
Tacoma-Pierce County has been named one of the most livable areas in the  देश  .
Tacoma was also recently listed as  the 19th सबसे walkable नगर in  the country .
In contrast , the city is also ranked as the most stressed-out city in the country in a 2004  सर्वेक्षण  .
In 2006 , women 's magazine Self named Tacoma the `` Most Sexually Healthy City ''   in the United States .
In 2012 , The Advocate gave  टकोमा the शीर्षक  of `` Gayest City in America '' , in part because of the large diversity of public offices held , and Washington State passing a bill in 2012 allowing LGBT couples to marry .
Tacoma is famous  लिये the 1940 पतन  of the Tacoma Narrows Bridge .
Chula Vista ( ; ) is the  दूसरी largest नगर in the सैन डिएगो महानगर  area , the seventh largest city in Southern California , the fourteenth largest city in the State of California , and the 77th-largest city in the United States .
The  जनसांख्यिकी थी  243,916 as of the 2010 census .
Located just from downtown San Diego and from the Mexican border in the South Bay region of the metropolitan area , the  नगर is at the बीच of एक of the richest आर्थिक  and culturally diverse zones in the United States .
Chula Vista is so named because of its scenic location  between the सैन  Diego Bay and coastal mountain foothills .
संस्थापित  in the early 19th century , fast population growth has recently been observed in the city .
As the second largest city in San Diego County , Chula Vista has quickly become a destination popular to many  पर्यटकों  .
Located in the city is one of America 's few year-round United States Olympic Training centers and popular tourist destinations  शामिल क्रिकेट  Wireless Amphitheater , the Chula Vista marina , and the Chula Vista Nature Center .
Metes and bounds is a system or method of  describing जमीन , रियल  property ( in contrast to personal property ) or real estate .
The  प्रणाली रै महरूम प्रयुक्त in  England for many centuries , and is still used there in the definition of general boundaries .
by कस्टम , it थी लागू in the असली तेरह  Colonies that became the United States , and in many other land jurisdictions based on English common law .
Typically the system uses physical features of the local geography , along with directions and distances , to define and  describe  the boundaries of a parcel of land .
The boundaries are described in a running prose style , working around the parcel in sequence ,  इससे a पाइंट of शुरूआत  , returning back to the same point ; compare with the oral ritual of beating the bounds .
It may  शामिल सन्दर्भ to अन्य adjoining  parcels ( and their owners ) , and it , in turn , could also be referred to in later surveys .
At the time the description is compiled , it may have been marked on the ground with permanent  स्मारक लगाई जहाँ  there were no suitable natural monuments .
The term `` metes '' refers to a boundary defined by the measurement of each straight run , specified by a distance between the terminal  अंक , और  an orientation or direction .
A  दिशा may be a सरल  compass bearing , or a precise orientation determined by accurate survey methods .
The term `` bounds '' refers to a more general boundary  वर्णन , ऐसे as साथ a निश्चित watercourse  , a stone wall , an adjoining public road way , or an existing building .
The system is often used to define larger pieces of property ( e.g . farms ) , and political subdivisions ( e.g . town boundaries ) where precise definition is not  जरूरी or होता be दूर too महंगी , or previously designated  boundaries can be incorporated into the description .
Sir Isaac Newton ( 25 December 164220 March 1727 ) was an English physicist and mathematician who is widely regarded as one of  the सबसे influential वैज्ञानिकों of सब समय  and as a key figure in the scientific revolution .
His book Philosophiæ Naturalis  प्रिन्सिपिया  Mathematica ( `` Mathematical Principles of Natural Philosophy '' ) , first published in 1687 , laid the foundations for most of classical mechanics .
Newton also made seminal contributions to optics and shares credit with Gottfried Leibniz for the  आविष्कार of the  infinitesimal calculus .
Newton 's Principia formulated the laws of motion and universal gravitation that dominated scientists ' view of the  शारीरिक ब्रह्मांड लिये the अगला  three centuries .
It also demonstrated that the motion of objects on the Earth and that of  celestial लाशें could  be described by the same principles .
By deriving Kepler 's laws of planetary motion from his mathematical description of gravity , Newton removed the  पिछला संदेह परिचय the वैध of the heliocentric  model of the cosmos .
Newton built the first practical reflecting telescope and developed a theory of colour  आधारित  on the observation that a prism decomposes white light into the many colours of the visible spectrum .
He also formulated an  अनुभवजन्य  law of cooling and studied the speed of sound .
In addition to his work on the calculus , as a mathematician Newton contributed to the study of power series , generalised the binomial theorem to non-integer exponents , and developed  Newton 's  method for approximating the roots of a function .
Newton was a fellow of Trinity College and the second Lucasian Professor of Mathematics  at the विश्वविद्यालयों  of Cambridge .
He was a  devout लकिन अपरंपरागत  Christian and , unusually for a member of the Cambridge faculty , he refused to take holy orders in the Church of England , perhaps because he privately rejected the doctrine of trinitarianism .
In addition to his work on the mathematical sciences , Newton also dedicated much of his time to the study of alchemy and biblical chronology , but most of his work in those areas  remained अप्रकाशित जबतक long बाद उसके  death .
In his later life , Newton became president of the  royal समाज .
He also served the British government as  वार्डन और  Master of the Royal Mint .
Prof. Walter  lewin explains  Newton 's law of gravitation in MIT course 8.01
Satellites and  projectiles सब obey न्यूटन  's law of gravitation
Newton 's law of universal gravitation states that every point mass in the universe attracts every  अन्य पाइंट द्रव्यमान साथ a फ़ोर्स कि is सीधे आंशिक to the उत्पाद  of their masses and inversely proportional to the square of the distance between them .
( Separately it was shown that large  spherically सममित masses आकर्षित  and are attracted as if all their mass were concentrated at their centers . )
This is a general physical law derived from empirical observations by what Newton  पुकारा प्रेरण  .
It is a part of classical mechanics and was formulated in Newton 's work  philosophiæ  Naturalis Principia Mathematica ( `` the Principia '' ) , first published on 5 July 1687 .
( When Newton  's किताब थी प्रस्तुत in 1686 to the royal समाज , रॉबर्ट hooke  made a claim that Newton had obtained the inverse square law from him – see History section below . )
In modern  भाषा  , the law states the following:
Assuming SI units , F is measured in newtons ( N ) , m1 and  m2 in गामा ( kg  ) , r in meters ( m ) , and the constant G is approximately equal to .
The value of the constant G was first accurately determined from the results of the Cavendish experiment conducted by the British scientist Henry  कैवेंडिश in 1798 , हालांकि  Cavendish did not himself calculate a numerical value for G .
This experiment was also the first test of Newton 's theory of gravitation  between masses in the  laboratory .
It took place 111 years after the publication of Newton 's Principia and 71 years after Newton 's death , so none of Newton 's calculations could use the value of G ; instead he could only calculate a force  सापेक्ष to  another force .
Newton 's  विधि  of gravitation resembles Coulomb 's law of electrical forces , which is used to calculate the magnitude of electrical force between two charged bodies .
Both are inverse-square laws , in which  फ़ोर्स is inversely आंशिक to the वर्गाकार  of the distance between the bodies .
Coulomb 's Law has the product  of दो आरोप in प्लेस of the उत्पाद of  the masses , and the electrostatic constant in place of the gravitational constant .
Newton 's law has since been superseded by Einstein 's theory of general relativity , but it  continues to be प्रयुक्त as an बेहतरीन  approximation of the effects of gravity .
Relativity is required only when there is a need for extreme precision ,  or जब dealing साथ  gravitation for extremely massive and dense objects .
White and red flags , representing Iraqi and American deaths , sit in the grass quadrangle of The Valley  पुस्तकालयों on the corvallis  , Oregon , campus of Oregon State University .
As part of the traveling Iraq Body Count exhibit from 2008 to 2009 ( not related to Iraq Body Count project ) , the flags aim to  `` उठाएँ जागरूकता of the इंसान लागत of  the Iraq War . ''
(  may 2008  )
Casualties of the conflict in Iraq since 2003 ( beginning with the 2003 invasion of Iraq , and continuing with the ensuing occupation of Iraq , as well as the activities of the various armed groups operating in the country ) have come in many forms ,  और the सटीकता of the सूचना  available on different types of Iraq War casualties varies greatly .
The table below  summarizes  various estimates of the Iraqi casualty figures .
For troops in the U.S.-led multinational coalition , the death toll is carefully tracked and updated daily , and the names  and photographs of those  killed in action as well as in accidents have been published widely .
A total of 4,486 U.S. soldiers were killed in Iraq between  2003 और  2012 .
Regarding the Iraqis  , however , सूचना  on both military and civilian casualties is both less precise and less consistent .
Estimates of casualty levels are available from reporters on the scene ,  इससे officials  of involved organizations , and from groups that summarize information on incidents reported in the news media .
The word `` casualties `` in its most  सामान्य भाव शामिल the घायल as  well as the dead .
Accounts of the number of coalition  wounded vary widely  , partly because it is not obvious what should be counted : should only those injuries serious enough to put a soldier out of commission be included ?
Do illnesses or injuries caused  by दुर्घटनाओं गिनती  , or should the focus be restricted to wounds caused by hostile engagement ?
Sources using different definitions may arrive  at बहुत अलग संख्याएँ  , and sometimes the precise definition is not clearly specified .
Asalto al coche (  डकैती of the कोच  ) , by Francisco de Goya
A highwayman was a thief and brigand who  preyed on travellers  .
This type of outlaw  प्रायः travelled  and robbed by horse , as compared to a footpad who travelled and robbed on foot .
Mounted robbers were widely considered  to  be socially superior to footpads .
Such robbers  संचालित in ग्रेट ब्रिटेन  and Ireland from the Elizabethan era until the early 19th century .
The word highwayman is first known to be used in the year 1617 ; other euphemisms included `` knights of the road '' and `` gentlemen of the road  .  ''
Two terms applied to 19th-century North American highwaymen were road agents in some instances for mountain bandits while in other cases the term is  rlallaala लिये mountain-based ruffians  .
In the same time period in  ऑस्ट्रेलिया  , they were known as bushrangers .
Earvin `` Magic  '' Johnson  , Jr. ( born August 14 , 1959 ) is a retired American professional basketball player who played point guard for the Los Angeles Lakers of the National Basketball Association ( NBA ) .
After winning championships in high school and college , Johnson was  चयनित पहला overall in the 1979  NBA Draft by the Lakers .
He won a championship and an NBA Finals Most  मूल्यवान खिलाड़ी  Award in his rookie season , and won four more championships with the Lakers during the 1980s .
जॉनसन रिटायर्ड abruptly in 1991 बाद announcing कि he था contracted  HIV , but returned to play in the 1992 All-Star Game , winning the All-Star MVP Award .
After protests from his fellow players , he retired again for four years , but returned in 1996 , at age 36 , to play 32  खेल लिये the लेकर्स पहले retiring  for the third and final time .
Johnson 's career achievements include three NBA MVP Awards , nine NBA Finals appearances ,  बारह all-star  games , and ten All-NBA First and Second Team nominations .
He led the league in regular-season assists four times , and is the  एनबीए 's  all-time leader in average assists per game , at 11.2 .
Johnson was a member of the ``  सपना  Team `` , the U.S. basketball team that won the Olympic gold medal in 1992 .
बाद leaving the एनबीए in 1992  , Johnson formed the Magic Johnson All-Stars , a barnstorming team that travelled around the world playing exhibition games .
Johnson was honored as one of  the 50 महानतम  Players in NBA History in 1996 , and enshrined in the Basketball Hall of Fame in 2002 .
He was rated the  महानतम एनबीए पाइंट गार्ड  of all time by ESPN in 2007 .
His friendship and rivalry with Boston Celtics star Larry Bird , whom he faced in the 1979 NCAA finals and three NBA  चैंपियनशिप श्रेणी , यहूद खूब  documented .
Since his retirement ,  जॉनसन रै महरूम an एडवोकेट  for HIV/ AIDS prevention and safe sex , as well as an entrepreneur , philanthropist , broadcaster and motivational speaker .
Johnson was a part-owner of the Lakers for several years , and  थी भाग of  a group that purchased the Los Angeles Dodgers in 2012 .
Allium  कोशिकाएं in अलग  phases of the cell cycle
The cells of eukaryotes ( left ) and  prokaryotes  ( right )
The cell is the basic structural ,  कार्यात्मक  and biological unit of all known living organisms .
It is the  smallest ईकाई of जीवन कि  is classified as a living thing ( except virus , which consists only from DNA/RNA covered by protein and lipids ) , and is often called the building block of life .
It consists of a  protoplasm  enclosed within a membrane , which contains many biomolecules such as proteins and nucleic acids .
Organisms can be classified as unicellular ( consisting of a single cell ; including most bacteria ) or  बहुकोशिकीय ( सहित पौधे और पशु )  .
While the number of cells in plants and animals varies from species to species ,  इंसानो contain परिचय  100 trillion ( 1014 ) cells .
Most plant and  एनिमल कोशिकाएं हैं  between 1 and 100 micrometres and therefore are visible only under the microscope .
The cell was  खोजा by रॉबर्ट hooke  in 1665 .
The cell theory , first developed in  1839 by matthias jakob schleiden और theodor schwann  , states that all organisms are composed of one or more cells , that all cells come from preexisting cells , that vital functions of an organism occur within cells , and that all cells contain the hereditary information necessary for regulating cell functions and for transmitting information to the next generation of cells .
कोशिकाएं उभरा on ग्रह धरती at तनिक 4.0–4.3 अरब सालो पहले .
The word cell comes from the Latin cella  , अर्थ `` छोटी  room '' .
The descriptive term for the smallest living biological structure was  coined by रॉबर्ट hooke in a किताब  he published in 1665 when he compared the cork cells he saw through his microscope to the small rooms monks lived in .
grecian सूत्र  is a men 's hair coloring product in the United States .
Canada and Europe  previously बैन the उत्पाद क्युकी  of its use of lead acetate .
A motor scooter 's front with an impractical number and  किस्में of  headlamps , added for decorative purposes
A headlamp is a lamp  संलग्न  to the front of a vehicle to light the road ahead .
Headlamp performance has steadily improved throughout the automobile  आयु , spurred by the ग्रेट disparity between दिन  and nighttime traffic fatalities : the U.S. National Highway Traffic Safety Administration states that nearly half of all traffic-related fatalities occur in the dark , despite only 25 % of traffic travelling during darkness .
While it is common for  the पद हेडलाइट to be  used interchangeably in informal discussion , headlamp is the term for the device itself , while headlight properly refers to the beam of light produced and distributed by the device .
अन्य वाहनों , ऐसे  as trains and aircraft , are required to have headlamps .
सायकिल  headlamps are often used on bicycles , and are required in some jurisdictions .
They can be powered by a  बैटरी  or a small electrical generator on the wheel .
Additionally automotive night vision  प्रणालियों  work to supplement headlamps .
Women 's rights are the rights and entitlements  claimed लिये महिलाओं  and girls of many societies worldwide .
In some places these rights are institutionalized or supported by law , local custom , and behaviour , whereas in  अन्य वे may be उपेक्षित  or suppressed .
They differ from  broader धारणाएं of इंसान अधिकारों through दावा  of an inherent historical and traditional bias against the exercise of rights by women and girls in favour of men and boys .
Issues commonly associated with notions of women 's rights include , though are not limited to , the right : to bodily integrity and autonomy ; to vote (  suffrage ) ; to थाम पब्लिक दफ्तर ; to कार्य ;  to fair wages or equal pay ; to own property ; to education ; to serve in the military or be conscripted ; to enter into legal contracts ; and to have marital , parental and religious rights .
Caryn Elaine Johnson , best known as Whoopi Goldberg ( , ( born November 13 , 1955 ) is an American comedienne , actress , singer-songwriter  , राजनैतिक activist , लेखक और  talk show host .
Goldberg made her film debut in The Color Purple (  1985 ) , playing celie  , a mistreated black woman in the Deep South .
She received a nomination for the Academy Award for Best Actress and won her first  सुनहरी ग्लोब पुरस्कार लिये उसके  role in the film .
In 1990 , she played Oda Mae Brown , a wacky psychic helping a slain man ( Patrick Swayze  )  save his lover ( Demi Moore ) in the blockbuster Ghost .
इस प्रदर्शन जीती उसके a दूसरी सुनहरी ग्लोब और an अकादमी  Award for Best Supporting Actress ; this made Goldberg only the second black woman in the history of the Academy Awards to win an acting Oscar—the first being Hattie McDaniel who won for Gone With the Wind in 1939 .
Notable later films include  सिस्टर अधिनियम और सिस्टर  Act 2 , The Player , Made in America , How Stella Got Her Groove Back , Girl , Interrupted and Rat Race .
She is also acclaimed for her roles as the bartender Guinan  in Star Trek : The Next  Generation , as Terry Doolittle in Jumpin ' Jack Flash , and as Carmen Tibideaux in Glee , as well as the voice of Shenzi the hyena in The Lion King .
Goldberg has been nominated for 13 Emmy  पुरस्कार लिये उसके  work in television .
She was  co-producer  of the popular game show Hollywood Squares from 1998 to 2004 .
She has been  the मॉडरेटर  of the daytime talk show The View since 2007 .
Goldberg has a Grammy , two Daytime Emmys , two Golden Globes , a Tony ( for production , not acting ) , and an   Oscar .
In addition , Goldberg has a British Academy Film Award ,  चार लोगों 's चुनाव  Awards , and has been honored with a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame .
She is one of the few entertainers who have won an Emmy ,   Grammy , Oscar , and Tony Award .
The National Hockey League ( NHL ; ) is an `` unincorporated not-for-profit association '' which operates a major professional ice hockey league of 30 franchised member clubs , of which seven are currently located in  कनाडा  and 23 in the United States .
Headquartered in New York City , the NHL is widely  माना to be the प्रीमियर पेशेवर बर्फ हॉकी लीग in the संसार , और एक  of the major professional sports leagues in the United States and Canada .
The Stanley Cup , the oldest professional sports trophy in North America ,  is awarded annually to the लीग  playoff champion at the end of each season .
The league was organized on November 26 , 1917 , in Montreal , Quebec , Canada , after the suspension of operations of   its predecessor organization , the National Hockey Association ( NHA ) , which had been founded in 1909 .
It started with four teams and , through a series of expansions ,  contractions , और relocations , the लीग  is now composed of 30 active franchises .
The nation to which the name of the league originally referred was Canada , although the league has now  महरूम binational चूंकि 1924 जब it विस्तारित into  the United States .
After a labour dispute that led to the cancellation of the entire 2004–05 season , the league resumed play under a new  सामूहिक bargaining अनुबंध  that included a salary cap .
In 2009 , the NHL enjoyed  रिकार्ड highs in शर्तें  of sponsorships , attendance , and television audiences .
The  एनएचएल draws  many highly skilled players from all over the world and currently has players from about 20 different countries .
Although Canadians have historically constituted the majority of the players in the NHL , over the past four plus decades the percentages of US and European players have increased both  क्युकी of the एनएचएल 's जारी विस्तार इससे छह to तीस क्लब चूंकि  1967 , and the increased availability of highly skilled European players .
maggots  feeding on carrion .
A maggot is the larva of a fly ( order Diptera ) ; it is  लागू  in particular to the larvae of Brachyceran flies , such as houseflies , cheese flies , and blowflies , rather than larvae of the Nematocera , such as mosquitoes and Crane flies .
`` Maggot '' is  नहीं a तकनीकी पद  and should not be taken as such ; in many standard textbooks of entomology it does not appear in the index at all .
In many non-technical  ग्रन्थ the पद  is used for insect larvae in general .
Other sources  have coined  their own definitions ; for example : `` ...
The term   applies to a grub when all trace of limbs has disappeared ... '' and `` ... Applied to the footless larvae of Dipters . ''
Maggot-like fly  लार्वे हैं of चौड़ी महत्व in पारिस्थितिकी और आयुर्विज्ञान ; among अन्य भूमिकाएँ  , various species are prominent in recycling carrion and garbage , attacking crops and foodstuffs , spreading microbial infections , and causing myiasis .
Herod ( , Hordos , Greek : , Hērōdēs ) , also known as Herod the Great ( 73/74 BCE – 4 BCE in  जेरिको ) , थी a रोमन क्लाएंट किंग  of Judea .
His epithet of `` the Great '' is widely disputed as he is   described as `` a madman who murdered his own family and a great many rabbis `` .
He is also known for his colossal building projects in Jerusalem and elsewhere , including his expansion of the Second  टेम्पल  in Jerusalem ( sometimes referred to as Herod 's Temple ) and the construction of the port at Caesarea Maritima .
महत्वपूर्ण विवरण of  his biography are gleaned from the works of the 1st century CE Roman–Jewish historian Josephus Flavius .
The Romans made Herod 's son , Herod Archelaus ,  ethnarch of judea , samaria , और idumea ( biblical  Edom ) from 4 BCE to 6 CE , referred to as the tetrarchy of Judea .
Archelaus was judged incompetent by the Roman emperor Augustus who then combined Samaria , Judea proper and Idumea into Iudaea province  अंतर्गत नियम of a prefect जबतक आयु  41 .
Herod 's other son Herod Antipas was tetrarch of  galilee इससे 4 bce–39  CE .
ABO blood group antigens present on red blood   cells and IgM antibodies present in the serum
The ABO blood group system is the most important blood type system ( or blood group system ) in human blood  transfusion  .
The associated  anti-a  and anti-B antibodies are usually IgM antibodies , which are usually produced in the first years of life by sensitization to environmental substances such as food , bacteria , and viruses .
ABO blood types are also present in some other animals , for example apes such as  chimpanzees , bonobos ,  and gorillas .
साल 1907 ( mcmvii ) थी  a common year starting on Tuesday ( link will display the full calendar ) of the Gregorian calendar and a common year starting on Monday of the 13-day-slower Julian calendar .
Northville is an affluent city located in and divided by Oakland and Wayne  काउंटी  in the U.S. state of Michigan .
The area is a suburb  of महानगर  Detroit .
The  जनसांख्यिकी थी  5,970 at the 2010 census .
Most of the city is in Oakland County , and is  घिरी  by the city of Novi .
The Wayne County portion is  घिरी by northville  Township .
Northville is served by Northville  पब्लिक स्कूलों  .
The city is located northeast of Ann Arbor and  उत्तरपश्चिम  of Detroit .
Elaine Stritch ( born February 2 , 1925 ) is an American  अभिनेत्री  and vocalist .
She has appeared in numerous stage plays and musicals , feature films , and  अनेक टेलीविज़न कार्यक्रम  .
She is known for her performance of `` The Ladies Who Lunch '' in Stephen Sondheim 's 1970 musical Company , her 2001 one-woman show , Elaine Stritch at Liberty  , and  recently for her role as Jack Donaghy 's mother Colleen on NBC 's 30 Rock .
She has been nominated for the Tony Award  पाँच टाइम्स  in various categories .
stritch  is also a three-time Emmy Award winner .
Misfits is a British science fiction comedy-drama television show about a group of young offenders sentenced to work in a community service  कार्यक्रम ,  where they obtain supernatural powers after a strange electrical storm .
The series opened in 2009  और is फिलहाल  ongoing .
Antonia Thomas , Iwan Rheon , Lauren Socha , Nathan Stewart-Jarrett , and Robert Sheehan are introduced as Alisha Daniels , Simon Bellamy , Kelly Bailey , Curtis   Donovan , and Nathan Young respectively .
Sheehan left after the second series , replaced in the third by  जोसेफ gilgun  as Rudy Wade .
After the fourth series was announced Rheon , Thomas and Socha had left their roles and  होता be replaced by नई वर्ण  Karla Crome , Nathan McMullen and Matt Stokoe , as Jess , Finn and Alex respectively .
Midway through the fourth  श्रेणी , stewart-jarrett बाएँ  while Natasha O'Keeffe joined the cast as Abbey Smith .
On 19  कूच 2013 , चैनल 4 घोषित at  a press event that they have renewed Misfits for a fifth and final series containing 8 episodes .
Brett Lorenzo Favre ( born October 10 , 1969 ) is a former American football quarterback who  खर्च the बहुमत  of his career with the Green Bay Packers of the National Football League ( NFL ) .
He was a 20-year veteran of  the एनएफएल , having निभाई  quarterback for the Atlanta Falcons ( 1991 ) , Green Bay Packers ( 1992 – 2007 ) , New York Jets ( 2008 ) and Minnesota Vikings ( 2009 – 2010 ) .
Favre is the only quarterback in NFL history to throw for over 70,000 yards , over 500  touchdowns , over 300 interceptions , over 6,000  completions , and over 10,000 pass attempts .
Favre started at the quarterback position for the University of Southern Mississippi for four years before being selected in the second  गोलाकार of the 1991 एनएफएल ड्राफ्ट by अटलांटा  ( 33rd overall ) .
He was traded to Green Bay on February 10 , 1992 , for the 19th pick  in the 1992 एनएफएल ड्राफ्ट  .
Favre became the Packers ' starting quarterback in the fourth game of the 1992 season ,  stepping in लिये घायल क्वार्टरबैक  Don Majkowski , and started every game through the 2007 season .
He was traded to  the  New York Jets and started at quarterback for the 2008 season before signing with the Vikings on August 18 , 2009 as their starting quarterback .
He   made an NFL record 297 consecutive starts ( 321 including playoffs ) .
He is the only player to win the AP Most  मूल्यवान  Player three consecutive times ( 1995–97 ) .
He has led teams to eight division championships ( 1995 , 1996 , 1997 , 2002 , 2003 , 2004 , 2007 , 2009 ) , five NFC Championship Games ( 1995 , 1996 , 1997 , 2007 , 2009 ) , and two Super Bowl appearances ( Super Bowl XXXI , Super Bowl  xxxii ) , जीतना एक ( सुपर  Bowl XXXI ) .
He holds many NFL records , including most career touchdown passes , most career passing yards , most career pass  completions , सबसे करियर pass कोशिशें , सबसे करियर interceptions thrown , सबसे  consecutive starts by a player , most consecutive starts by a quarterback , most career victories as a starting quarterback , most sacked , and most fumbles .
he is भी referred to by उसके उपनाम `` the gunslinger '' .
The following is a  सूची of notable  aircraft hijackings around the world .
The World Wide Web ( abbreviated as WWW or W3 , commonly known as the web ) , is a system of interlinked  हाइपरटेक्स्ट दस्तावेज़ पहुँचा  via the Internet .
With a web browser , one can view web pages that may contain text , images , videos , and other multimedia , and navigate  between उन्हें via hyperlinks  .
Using concepts from his earlier  हाइपरटेक्स्ट प्रणालियों जैसे enquire , अंग्रेजों  engineer , computer scientist and at that time employee of the CERN , Sir Tim Berners-Lee , now Director of the World Wide Web Consortium ( W3C ) , wrote a proposal in March 1989 for what would eventually become the World Wide Web .
At CERN , a European research organisation near Geneva straddling the border between France and Switzerland , Berners-Lee and Belgian computer scientist Robert Cailliau proposed in 1990 to use hypertext `` to link and access information of various kinds as a web of nodes in which the  उपयोक्ता can ब्राउज़ at होगा '' , और वे सरेआम introduced the प्रोजेक्ट in दिसम्बर  of the same year .
Wayne Lyman Morse ( October 20 , 1900July 22 , 1974 ) was a politician and attorney from Oregon , United States , known for his proclivity for  opposing उसके पार्टियों ' नेतृत्व , और specifically लिये  his opposition to the Vietnam War on constitutional grounds .
Born in Madison , Wisconsin , and  शिक्षित at the विश्वविद्यालयों  of Wisconsin-Madison and the University of Minnesota Law School , Morse moved to Oregon in 1930 and began teaching at the University of Oregon School of Law .
During World War II he was elected to the United States Senate as a Republican ; he became an Independent after Dwight D.  आइज़नहावर 's चुनाव to the प्रेसिडेंसी in  1952 .
While an independent , he set a record for performing the second longest one-person  filibuster  in the history of the Senate .
Morse joined the Democratic Party in 1955 ,  और थी reelected  twice while a member of that party .
Morse made a brief run for the  लोकतांत्रिक पार्टी  's presidential nomination in 1960 .
A few years  बाद , मोर्स थी एक of  only two Senators who opposed the Gulf of Tonkin Resolution , which authorized the president to take military action in Vietnam without a declaration of war .
He continued to speak out  विरूद्ध the युद्ध in the ensuing सालो , और  lost his 1968 bid for reelection to Bob Packwood , who criticized his strong opposition to the war .
Morse made two more bids for reelection to  the  Senate before his death in 1974 .
In   parliamentary procedure , a motion to table has two different and contradictory meanings:
In the United States , to table usually means the to lay [ the topic ] on the table or to move for  postponement of विचार ; a प्रस्ताव to बर्खास्तगी विचार  of a pending motion .
Much less often , it means a  गति to ``  put on the table '' : a proposal to begin consideration ( or reconsideration ) , a usage consistent with the rest of the English-speaking world .
In the rest of the English-speaking world such as the United  किंगडम , to तालिका अर्थात्  to move to place [ the topic ] upon the table ( or to move to place on the table ) : a proposal to begin consideration ( or reconsideration ) of a proposal .
Both the American and the British  dialects have the  sense of `` to table '' as to lay [ the topic ] on the table or to cause [ the topic ] to lie on the table .
The difference is the idea of what the table is  लिये , कि of a शेल्फ बंद  to the side , or an active work bench .
The British meaning has the sense of the table as being an active work bench , with  the टॉपिक होने the  center of attention , considered and discussed by all until it can be resolved , at which point it is taken off the 'table ' .
The American sense is that the table is like that of a shelf ,  अभिलेख , or long-term भंडार  device , where the topic has been disposed of by sending it to the 'table ' and leaving it there .
Toy Story 3 is a 2010 American 3D   computer animated comedy-drama prison film , and the third installment in the Toy Story series .
it थी उत्पादित  by Pixar Animation Studios and distributed by Walt Disney Pictures .
Directed by Lee Unkrich , the film was released worldwide from June through October in Disney Digital 3-D , RealD  , और imax  3D .
Toy Story 3 was also the first film to be released  theatrically साथ dolby घेर  7.1 sound .
The screenplay was written by  माइकल arndt , जबकि  Unkrich wrote the story along with John Lasseter and Andrew Stanton , respectively director and co-writer of the two first films .
The plot focuses on the toys Woody , Buzz Lightyear , and their friends dealing with an uncertain future as their  मालिक , एंडी , prepares to छोड़ लिये कॉलेज  .
Actors Tom Hanks , Tim Allen , Joan Cusack , Don Rickles , Estelle Harris , John Ratzenberger , Wallace Shawn  , जेफ़ pidgeon , jodi बेंसन , R. ली ermey  , John Morris , and Laurie Metcalf reprised their voice-over roles from the previous films .
Jim Varney , who  निभाई slinky श्वान in the पहला दो films  , and Joe Ranft , who portrayed Lenny and Wheezy , both died before production began on Toy Story 3 .
The role of Slinky Dog was taken over by Blake Clark ( a friend of Varney ) , while Ranft 's characters and various others were  लिखा आउट of the स्टोरी  .
नई वर्ण शामिल प्रदर्शन by ned beatty , टिमोथी डाल्टन , क्रिस्टन schaal , bonnie हंट , whoopi गोल्डबर्ग , जेफ़ garlin , रिचर्ड दयालु , और माइकल कीटन .
The feature broke Shrek the Thirds record as the biggest opening day North American gross for an animated film unadjusted for inflation , and  a बिग खोलने साथ  an unadjusted gross of $ 110,307,189 .
It is also the highest-grossing opening weekend for a  पिक्चर्स फिल्मी , as  well as the highest-grossing opening weekend for a film to have opened in the month of June .
This is the highest-grossing film of 2010 , both in the  संयुक्त राज्य और कनाडा  , and worldwide .
In early August , it became Pixar 's highest-grossing film at the North American box office ( surpassing Finding Nemo ) , and the highest-grossing  एनिमेटेड फिल्मी of सब समय विश्वव्यापी ( surpassing shrek 2 ) ; बाद कि माह ,  Toy Story 3 became the first ever animated film in history to make over $ 1 billion worldwide .
It is currently the  10th-highest-grossing  film of all time .
Toy Story 3 was nominated for five Academy Awards , including Best Picture , Best  adapted  Screenplay , and Best Sound Editing .
It was the third  एनिमेटेड फिल्मी  ( after Beauty and the Beast and Up ) to be nominated for Academy Award for Best Picture .
It won  the पुरस्कार  for Best Animated Feature and Best Original Song .
John Levell Starks (  born अगस्त  10 , 1965 ) is an American retired professional basketball shooting guard .
Starks was listed at 6'5 '' and 190  पाउंड दौरान  his NBA playing career .
Although he  was not drafted  in the 1988 NBA Draft after attending four colleges in his native Oklahoma , including Oklahoma State University , he gained fame while playing for the New York Knicks of the National Basketball Association in the 1990s .
Secure Digital or ( SD ) is a non-volatile memory card format for use in  पोर्टेबल डिवाइस , ऐसे as मोबाईल फोन , डिजिटल  cameras , GPS navigation devices , and tablet computers .
The Secure Digital standard is maintained by the SD  कार्ड संघ ( sda  ) .
SD  technologies have महरूम  implemented in more than 400 brands across dozens of product categories and more than 8,000 models .
The Secure Digital format includes four card families  उपलब्धियाँ  in three different form factors .
The four families are the original  standard-capacity ( sdsc ) , the  High-Capacity ( SDHC ) , the eXtended-Capacity ( SDXC ) , and the SDIO , which combines input/output functions with data storage .
The three form  कारकों  are the original size , the `` mini '' size , and the `` micro '' size ( see illustration ) .
There are many combinations  of रूप कारकों  and device families .
Electrically passive adapters allow the use of a smaller card in a host device built to  थाम  a larger card .
Host devices that comply with newer versions of the specification provide backward compatibility and accept older SD cards , but this article explains several  कारकों कि  can prevent the use of a newer SD card:
A newer card may offer  वृहद क्षमता than the मेजबान  device can handle .
A newer  कार्ड  may use a file system the host device can not navigate .
Use of an SDIO card  requires the मेजबान यंत्र be designed  for the input/output functions the card provides .
The organization of the card  थी  changed starting with the SDHC family .
Some vendors produced SDSC cards above 1  gb पहले the sda  had standardized a method of doing so .
The SDA uses several trademarked logos to  enforce अनुपालन साथ इसके विशेषताएँ  and assure users of compatibility .
ह्यूज जॉन mungo  Grant ( born 9 September 1960 ) is a British actor and film producer .
He has received a Golden Globe , a  bafta , और  an Honorary César .
His films have earned more than US $ 2.4 billion from 25  नाट्य रिलीज  worldwide .
Grant achieved international stardom after appearing in Richard Curtis 's  कामयाब चार  Weddings and a Funeral ( 1994 ) .
He used this breakthrough role as a frequent  cinematic persona दौरान the 1990s , delivering  comic performances in mainstream films like Mickey Blue Eyes ( 1999 ) and Notting Hill ( 1999 ) .
By the turn of the 21st century , he had established  खुद  as a leading man skilled with a satirical comic talent .
Grant has expanded his oeuvre with critically acclaimed turns as a cad in Bridget Jones 's Diary ( 2001 ) , About A Boy ( 2002 ) , Love Actually ( 2003  ) , और अमरीकी  Dreamz ( 2006 ) .
He later played against type with multiple cameo  भूमिकाएँ in the एपिक  drama film Cloud Atlas ( 2012 ) .
Within the film industry , Grant is cited as an anti-film star who approaches his roles like a  अक्षर कर्ता , और कोशिशें to मेक उसके  acting appear spontaneous .
Hallmarks of his comic skills  शामिल a nonchalant टच of विडंबना  / sarcasm and studied physical mannerisms as well as his precisely-timed dialogue delivery and facial expressions .
The  entertainment मीडिया  's coverage of Grant 's life off the big screen has often overshadowed his work as a thespian .
he रै महरूम  vocal about his disrespect for the profession of acting , and in his disdain towards the culture of celebrity and hostility towards the media .
In a career spanning  30 सालो , ग्रान्ट रै repeatedly  claimed that acting is not a true calling but just a job he fell into .
The Han  राजवंश  ( ; ) ( 206 BC – 220 AD ) was an imperial dynasty of China , preceded by the Qin Dynasty ( 221–207 BC ) and succeeded by the Three Kingdoms ( 220–280 AD ) .
It was founded by the rebel leader Liu Bang , known  मरणोपरांत as सम्राट gaozu of हान .
It was briefly interrupted by the Xin Dynasty ( 9–23 AD ) of the former  रीजेंट  Wang Mang .
This interregnum separates the Han into two periods : the Western Han  ( 206  BC – 9 AD ) and Eastern Han ( 25–220 AD ) .
Spanning over four centuries ,  the काल of the हान राजवंश is माना  a golden age in Chinese history .
To this day , China 's majority ethnic group refers to itself as the `` Han people '' and the Chinese  स्क्रिप्ट is referred  to as `` Han characters `` .
The Han Empire was divided into areas directly controlled by the central government , known  as commanderies , और a क्रमांक  of semi-autonomous kingdoms .
These kingdoms gradually lost  सब vestiges  of their independence , particularly following the Rebellion of the Seven States .
The Xiongnu , a nomadic confederation which  वर्चस्व the  eastern Eurasian Steppe , defeated the Han army in battle in 200 BC .
Following   the defeat , a political marriage alliance was negotiated in which the Han became the de facto inferior partner .
When , despite the treaty ,  the xiongnu जारी to  raid Han borders , Emperor Wu of Han ( r. 141–87 BC ) launched several military campaigns against them .
The  परम हान विजय  in these wars eventually forced the Xiongnu to accept vassal status as Han tributaries .
These campaigns expanded  हान प्रभुता into the  Tarim Basin of Central Asia and helped establish the vast trade network known as the Silk Road , which reached as far as the Mediterranean world .
Han forces managed to divide the Xiongnu into two competing  राष्ट्र , the दक्षिणी और उत्तरी  Xiongnu , and forced the Northern Xiongnu across the Ili River .
despite ये victories  , the territories north of Han 's borders were quickly overrun by the nomadic Xianbei Confederation .
After 92 AD , the palace eunuchs increasingly involved themselves in court politics , engaging in violent power struggles  between  the various consort clans of the empresses and empress dowagers , causing the Han 's ultimate downfall .
Imperial authority was also seriously challenged by large Daoist religious societies which instigated the Yellow Turban  विद्रोह  and the Five Pecks of Rice Rebellion .
Following the death of Emperor Ling ( r. 168–189 AD ) , the palace eunuchs suffered wholesale massacre by military officers , allowing members  of the aristocracy और सैन्य  governors to become warlords and divide the empire .
When Cao Pi , King of Wei  , usurped the सिंहासन  from Emperor Xian , the Han Dynasty ceased to exist .
The Han Dynasty was an age of economic prosperity and saw a significant growth of the  धन अर्थव्यवस्था पहला स्थापित दौरान  the Zhou Dynasty ( c. 1050–256 BC ) .
The coinage issued by the central government mint in 119 BC  remained  the standard coinage of China until the Tang Dynasty ( 618–907 AD ) .
To pay for  इसके सैन्य अभियान  and the settlement of newly conquered frontier territories , the government nationalized the private salt and iron industries in 117 BC .
These government  monopolies यहूद repealed दौरान the पूर्वी  Han period , and the lost revenue was recouped through heavily taxing private entrepreneurs .
The emperor was at the  शिखर  of Han society .
He presided over the Han government but shared power with both the nobility and appointed  मंत्रियों  who came largely from the scholarly gentry class .
From the reign of Emperor Wu onward , the Chinese court officially sponsored  confucianism in शिक्षा और अदालत  politics , synthesized with the cosmology of later scholars such as Dong Zhongshu .
This policy endured until  the पतन of the  Qing Dynasty in 1911 AD .
Science and technology during the Han period saw significant advances , including papermaking , the nautical steering rudder , the use of negative numbers in  गणित , the raised-relief मैप , the हाइड्रोलिक -powered armillary गोला लिये खगोलशास्त्र  , and a seismometer employing an inverted pendulum .
Tourette syndrome ( also called Tourette 's syndrome , Tourette 's disorder , Gilles de la Tourette syndrome , GTS or , more commonly , simply Tourette 's or TS ) is an inherited neuropsychiatric disorder with onset in childhood ,  characterized  by multiple physical ( motor ) tics and at least one vocal ( phonic ) tic .
These tics characteristically wax and wane , can be  suppressed temporarily  , and are preceded by a premonitory urge .
tourette 's is पारिभाषित as भाग of a वर्णक्रम of टिक विकार , जिससे शामिल क्षणिक और दीर्घकालिक tics .
Tourette 's was  एकबार माना a विरल और विचित्र सिंड्रोम , सबसे प्रायः संबद्ध  with the exclamation of obscene words or socially inappropriate and derogatory remarks ( coprolalia ) , but this symptom is present in only a small minority of people with Tourette 's .
Tourette 's is no longer considered a rare condition , but it is not always correctly identified because most cases are mild and the severity of tics decreases for most children  as they pass through  adolescence .
Between 0.4 % and 3.8 % of children ages 5 to 18 may have  tourette 's ; the व्यापकता of क्षणिक और दीर्घकालिक tics  in school-age children is higher , with the more common tics of eye blinking , coughing , throat clearing , sniffing , and facial movements .
Extreme Tourette 's in adulthood is a rarity , and Tourette 's does not adversely affect  प्रज्ञा or जीवन प्रत्याशा  .
Genetic and environmental factors play a role  in the etiology  of Tourette 's , but the exact causes are unknown .
In most cases ,  दवा  is unnecessary .
There is no effective treatment for every case of tics , but certain medications and therapies can help when  उनके उपयोग is  warranted .
Education is an important part of any treatment plan , and explanation and reassurance alone are often  sufficient उपचार  .
Comorbid  शर्तें ( co-occurring diagnoses अन्य than tourette  's ) such as attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder ( ADHD ) and obsessive–compulsive disorder ( OCD ) are present in many patients seen in tertiary specialty clinics .
These other conditions often cause more functional impairment to the individual than the  tics कि हैं the hallmark  of Tourette 's , hence it is important to correctly identify comorbid conditions and treat them .
The eponym was  bestowed by jean-martin charcot ( 1825–1893 ) on निमित्त  of his resident , Georges Albert Édouard Brutus Gilles de la Tourette ( 1859–1904 ) , a French physician and neurologist , who published an account of nine patients with Tourette 's in 1885 .
Sunbeam  बैज  .
Sunbeam was a marque registered by John Marston Co. Ltd of Wolverhampton , England   , in 1888 .
The company first made bicycles , then motorcycles and cars from the late 19th century until about 1936 , and  लागू the marque to सब तीन  forms of transportation .
The  कम्पनी भी manufactured  aero engines in the First World War and 647 aircraft during the Second World War .
A Sunbeam was the first British car to  जीत a ग्रैंड प्रिक्स रेस , और नियत a क्रमांक  of land speed records .
The company went into receivership in 1935 and was  खरीदा by the  Rootes Group , which continued to use the Sunbeam marque .
Fox News Channel ( FNC ) , also known as Fox News , is a cable news channel owned by the Fox  entertainment  Group , a subsidiary of News Corporation .
As of April 2009 , the  चैनल  was available to 102 million households in the United States and to viewers internationally , broadcasting primarily from its New York studios .
The channel was created by Australian-American media mogul Rupert Murdoch , who hired former NBC  कार्यपालिका रोजर ailes as  its founding CEO .
It launched on October 7 , 1996  to 17 लाख केबल  subscribers .
It grew during the late  1990s और 2000s to become  the dominant cable news network in the United States .
Critics have stated that Fox News Channel  promotes रूढ़िवादी राजनैतिक  positions and biased reporting .
टीकाकारों , न्यूज anchors , और पत्रकारों at फॉक्स न्यूज चैनल have responded  that news reporting and political commentary operate independently of each other , and have denied any bias in news reporting .
The mandibular first molar or six-year molar is the tooth located distally ( away from the midline of the face ) from both the mandibular second premolars of the mouth but mesial  (  toward the midline of the face ) from both mandibular second molars .
It is located on the mandibular (  निम्नतर ) मेहराब of  the mouth , and generally opposes the maxillary ( upper ) first molars and the maxillary 2nd premolar in normal class I occlusion .
The function of this molar is similar to that of all molars in  लिहाज़ to पीस होने the  principal action during mastication , commonly known as chewing .
There are usually five  well-developed पुलिन on mandibular  first molars : two on the buccal ( side nearest the cheek ) , two lingual ( side nearest the tongue ) , and one distal .
There are great differences between the  पतझड़ी  ( baby ) mandibular molars and those of the permanent mandibular molars , even though their function are similar .
The permanent mandibular molars are not considered to have  कोई दांत कि  precede it .
Despite being named molars , the deciduous molars  हैं followed  by permanent premolars .
In the universal system of notation , the deciduous mandibular first molars are designated by a letter written in  अपरकेस  .
The  सही पतझड़ी mandibular  first molar is known as `` S '' , and the left one is known as `` L '' .
The international notation has a different system of  संकेतन  .
Thus , the right deciduous mandibular first molar is known  as ``  84 '' , and the left one is known as `` 74 '' .
In the universal system of  संकेतन , the स्थाई  mandibular first molars are designated by a number .
The right permanent mandibular first molar is known as `` 30 '' , and  the बाएँ एक is ज्ञात as `` 19  '' .
The Palmer notation  उपयोग a क्रमांक in संयोजन  with a symbol designating in which quadrant the tooth is found .
For this tooth , the left and right  पहला molars होता  have the same number , `` 6 '' , but the right one would have the symbol , `` ┐ '' , over it , while the left one would have , `` ┌ '' .
The  अंतरराष्ट्रीय संकेतन रै a अलग क्रमांकन  system than the previous two , and the right permanent mandibular first molar is known as `` 46 '' , and the left one is known as `` 36 '' .
mandibular प्राथमिक  first molars usually have four pulp horns .
The first molar is usually the first  स्थाई दाँत to erupt और रै  adult undertones .
Anatomy : The mandibular first molar has five cusps : the mesiobuccal ( MB , toward midline and cheek ) , mesiolingual ( ML , toward midline and tongue ) , distolingual ( DL , away from midline and towards tongue ) , distobuccal ( DB  , दूर इससे midline और toward गाल ) , और distal ( d , दूर इससे midline ) , सूचीबद्ध in अनुक्रम of  decreasing size .
Listed in order of decreasing height they are : ML , DL , DF , MF  ,  and D. An eighth cusp was found in a primary second lower molar in an Argentinean child .
Viewed from the top of the  दाँत  ( occlusal view ) , the mandibular first molar is pentagonal ( five sided ) in shape and tapers toward the lingual , with the sides being the buccal surface , the mesial surface , the lingual surface , distal surface , and the distobuccal surface .
The occlusal  सतह रै  four grooves .
The central groove is not  सीधा लकिन  runs down the center of the tooth mesially to distally and contains four pits ( mesial , central , central , and distal ) .
The distobuccal groove runs from the  distal गड्ढे in the सेंट्रल  groove distobuccally separating the distal and distobuccal cusps .
The lingual groove runs  इससे the  more distal of the central pits in the central groove toward the lingual surface between the mesiolingual and distolingual cusps .
The buccal groove runs from the more mesial of the central   pits in the central groove toward the buccal surface between the mesiobuccal and distobuccal cusps ending in the buccal pit .
The portion of the central groove between the central pits is termed the Lewis offset and is mandatory  to खाता लिये the स्थितियाँ of the buccal और lingual  grooves ( buccal groove being more mesial than the lingual groove while they are parallel ) .
From the buccal ( buccal view ) , two  जड़ें  are present .
The distal root  is generally  straighter , although both often have a slight distal curvature .
The heights of contour on the mesial and distal  सम्पर्क the सटा दांत और हैं स्तिथ  at the junction of the occlusal and middle thirds of the crown .
The Florida Legislature is the two  घरों कि अधिनियम as the राज्य  legislature of the U.S. state of Florida .
The Florida  संविधान  states that `` The legislative power of the state shall be vested in a legislature of the State of Florida , '' composed of a Senate and House of Representatives .
the विधानमंडल  is seated at the Florida State Capitol in Tallahassee .
Stained glass depiction  of डेनियल interceding  with Arioch , the king 's guard .
Arioch had been charged with killing all the wise men  बाद वे यहूद नहीं समर्थ to interpret  Nebuchadnezzar 's dream .
Daniel 2 is  the दूसरी  chapter of the Book of Daniel in the Hebrew Bible .
The  अध्याय 's सोर्स  text is predominantly written in Aramaic .
according to the  text , Nebuchadnezzar is the king of Babylon who is troubled by his dreams .
He demands an interpretation for his  सपनो or होगा have  his mystic interpreters executed .
Daniel seeks  दैवी अक्ल  to interpret the king 's dreams and praises God with a short psalm .
God gives Daniel a vision in the night to  खुलासा the किंग  's dream .
Able to satisfy the king ,  डेनियल is प्रचारित  over the whole province of Babylon .
One Comcast Center , the headquarters of Comcast in  फिलाडेल्फिया  , PA .
the बूढ़ा comcast  logo from 1969 to 1999 , when it was replaced with the crescent logo .
The Comcast Corporation is an  अमरीकी प्रदाता of entertainment  , information and communications products and services .
It is the largest cable operator , one of the biggest mass media ,  घर अंतरजाल सेवा प्रदाता , और तीसरा largest घर टेलीफोन सेवा प्रदाता in the संयुक्त राज्य , providing  cable television , broadband Internet , telephone service and in some areas home security ( including burglar alarms , surveillance cameras , fire alarm systems and home automation ) to both residential and commercial customers in 40 states and the District of Columbia .
The company  is headquartered  in Philadelphia , Pennsylvania .
In 2011 , Comcast acquired a 51 % majority stake in media conglomerate NBCUniversal from GE in January 2011 , and began the process of  खरीदना the बाकी 49  % on February 12 , 2013 , at a cost of $ 16.7 billion .
It completed the purchase on  कूच 19 , 2013  .
Comcast also has significant holding in  अनेक  cable networks ( including E !
Entertainment Television , Style Network ,  g4 , the गोल्फ़ चैनल  and NBC Sports Network ) , distribution ( ThePlatform ) , and related businesses .
comcast रै महरूम the विषय of आलोचना लिये क्रियाएँ सहित इसके stance on जाल neutrality , as खूब as ग़रीब परिणाम on ग्राहक संतोष सर्वेक्षण  .
Porcupines are rodents with a coat of sharp spines , or  quills  , that defend and camouflage them from predators .
They are indigenous to the  americas , दक्षिणी  Asia , and Africa .
Porcupines are  the तीसरा  largest of the rodents , behind the capybara and the beaver .
Most porcupines are about  long , साथ  an long tail .
Weighing , they are rounded ,  विशाल और slow  .
Porcupines come in various  शेड्स of  brown , gray , and the unusual white .
porcupines  ' spiny protection resembles that of the unrelated erinaceomorph hedgehogs and monotreme echidnas .
The common porcupine is a  herbivore  .
It eats leaves , herbs  , टहनियों  and green plants like skunk cabbage and clover and in the winter it may eat bark .
The North American porcupine  प्रायः climbs  trees to find food .
the अफ़्रीकी साही  is not a climber and forages on the ground .
It is mostly nocturnal , but will sometimes forage for food in  the  day .
porcupines have become a  pest in Kenya and are eaten as a delicacy .
The name porcupine comes from Middle French porc espin (  spined सुअर  ) .
A regional American name for the animal is  quill सुअर  .
First page of US  पेटेंट 129,843 लिये सुधार  in Lubricators for Steam-Engines
Elijah J. McCoy ( May 2 , 1844 – October 10 , 1929 ) was a black Canadian-American  आविष्कारक और इंजीनियर , जो थी notable  for his 57 U.S. patents , most to do with lubrication of steam engines .
Born free  in कनाडा , he लौटे as a five-year-old चाइल्ड साथ उसके परिवार to the संयुक्त राज्य in 1847 , जहाँ he जिया लिये the बाकी of उसके जीवन और became a us नागरिक .
Honda FCX Clarity  ,  a hydrogen fuel cell demonstration vehicle introduced in 2008
A hydrogen vehicle is a  गाडी कि उपयोग हाइड्रोजन  as its onboard fuel for motive power .
हाइड्रोजन वाहनों  include hydrogen fueled space rockets , as well as automobiles and other transportation vehicles .
the शक्ति पौधे of ऐसे वाहनों बदलें the रासायनिक उर्जा of हाइड्रोजन to mechanical उर्जा either by burning हाइड्रोजन in an आतंरिक दहन इंजन , or by reacting हाइड्रोजन साथ ऑक्सीजन in a ईंधन कोशिका to चलाएं इलेक्ट्रिक मोटर्स  .
Widespread use of hydrogen for fueling transportation is a key element of a  प्रस्तावित हाइड्रोजन  economy .
Hydrogen fuel does  नहीं occur naturally  on Earth and thus is not an energy source ; rather it is an energy carrier .
It is most frequently made from methane or other fossil fuels , but it can be produced using sources ( such as wind , solar , or nuclear ) that are intermittent  ,  too diffuse or too cumbersome to directly propel vehicles .
Integrated  wind-to-hydrogen पौधे  , using electrolysis of water , are exploring technologies to deliver costs low enough , and quantities great enough , to compete with traditional energy sources .
Many companies are working to develop technologies that might efficiently exploit the  संभावित of हाइड्रोजन  energy for mobile uses .
The attraction of using hydrogen as an energy currency  is that , if  hydrogen is prepared without using fossil fuel inputs , vehicle propulsion would not contribute to carbon dioxide emissions .
The drawbacks of hydrogen use are high capital cost , low energy content per unit volume , high tankage weights , very high storage vessel pressures , the storage , transportation and filling of gaseous or liquid hydrogen  in वाहनों , the विशाल निवेश in अवसंरचना  that would be required to fuel vehicles , and the inefficiency of production processes .
Sacramento is the capital city of the U.S. state of  कैलिफ़ोर्निया और  the seat of government of Sacramento County .
It is located at the confluence of the Sacramento River and  the अमरीकी नदी in  the northern portion of California 's expansive Central Valley .
With an estimated 2011 population of 477,891 , it is the sixth-largest city in California and the 35th largest city in the  संयुक्त राज्य  .
Sacramento  is the कोर सांस्कृतिक और आर्थिक  center of the Sacramento metropolitan area which includes seven counties with an estimated 2009 population of 2,527,123 .
Its metropolitan area is the fourth largest in  कैलिफ़ोर्निया बाद the वृहद लॉस एंजिल्स  Area , San Francisco Bay Area , and the San Diego metropolitan area , as well as the 25th largest in the United States .
Sacramento was cited by Time  पत्रिका as  America 's most ethnically and racially integrated city in 2002 .
sacramento became a नगर through  the efforts of the Swiss immigrant John Sutter , Sr. , his son John Sutter , Jr. , and James W. Marshall .
Sacramento  grew जल्दी धन्यवाद  to the protection of Sutter 's Fort , which was established by Sutter in 1839 .
During the California Gold Rush , Sacramento was a major distribution point , a  वाणिज्यिक और agricultural  center , and a terminus for wagon trains , stagecoaches , riverboats , the telegraph , the Pony Express , and the First Transcontinental Railroad .
California State  विश्वविद्यालयों , sacramento , अधिक commonly ज्ञात  as Sacramento State or Sac State , is the largest local university .
It is one of the twenty-three campuses of  the कैलिफ़ोर्निया  State University system .
Drexel  विश्वविद्यालयों sacramento  is located in Downtown , Sacramento .
University of the Pacific 's McGeorge School of Law is located in the  ओक पार्क पड़ोस  .
in  addition , the University of California , Davis is located in nearby Davis , west of the capital .
The UC Davis Medical Center , a  world-renowned शोध  hospital , is located in the city of Sacramento .
the ठहराना स्टोर is a कड़ी of खुदरा स्टोर्स स्वामित्व और संचालित by ठहराना inc. , dealing in कंप्यूटर और उपभोक्ता  electronics .
The stores sell Macintosh personal computers , software , iPods , iPads , iPhones ,  third-party accessories , और अन्य  consumer electronics such as Apple TV .
Some high profile stores feature a  थिएटर लिये प्रस्तुतियों और वर्कशॉप और a स्टुडियो लिये  training with Apple products ; all stores offer a Genius Bar for technical support and repairs , as well as free workshops available to the public .
Under the leadership of Ron Johnson , the former Senior Vice President of Retail Operations , the Apple Stores have , according to an article in the New York  टाइम्स , महरूम जिम्मेदार लिये ``  [ turning ] the boring computer sales floor into a sleek playroom filled with gadgets '' .
, Apple has 405 stores worldwide , with global sales of billion in merchandise in 2011 , and they lead the United States retail  मार्केट in  terms of sales per unit area .
Steven Paul `` Steve '' Jobs ( ; February 24 , 1955 – October 5 , 2011 ) was an American entrepreneur and inventor , best known as the co-founder , chairman ,  और सीईओ  of Apple Inc .
Through Apple , he was widely   recognized as a charismatic pioneer of the personal computer revolution and for his influential career in the computer and consumer electronics fields , transforming `` one industry after another , from computers and smartphones to music and movies ... ''
Jobs also co-founded and served as chief executive of  पिक्चर्स एनिमेशन studios  ; he became a member of the board of directors of The Walt Disney Company in 2006 , when Disney acquired Pixar .
Jobs was among the first to see the commercial potential of Xerox PARC 's mouse -driven graphical user  इंटरफ़ेस , जिससे  led to the creation of the Apple Lisa and , one year later , the Macintosh .
He also played a role in introducing the LaserWriter , one of the first widely  उपलब्धियाँ लेज़र  printers , to the market .
After a power struggle with the board of directors in 1985 , Jobs left Apple and founded NeXT , a computer platform development  कम्पनी  specializing in the higher-education and business markets .
In 1986 , he acquired the computer graphics division of Lucasfilm , which was spun off  as  Pixar .
He was credited in Toy Story ( 1995 ) as an  कार्यपालिका  producer .
He served as CEO and  बहुमत shareholder  until Disney 's purchase of Pixar in 2006 .
In 1996 , after Apple had failed to deliver its operating system , Copland  , gil amelio turned to  NeXT Computer , and the NeXTSTEP platform became the foundation for the Mac OS X .
Jobs returned to  ठहराना  as an advisor , and took control of the company as an interim CEO .
Jobs brought  ठहराना  from near bankruptcy to profitability by 1998 .
As the new CEO of the company , Jobs oversaw the development of the iMac , iTunes , iPod , iPhone , and iPad ,  और on the सेवाएं पक्ष , the  company 's Apple Retail Stores , iTunes Store and the App Store .
The success of these products and services provided several years of stable financial returns , and propelled Apple to become the world 's most valuable  सरेआम traded  company in 2011 .
The reinvigoration of  the कम्पनी is regarded by  many commentators as one of the greatest turnarounds in business history .
In 2003  , कार्य थी diagnosed  with a pancreas neuroendocrine tumor .
Though it was initially treated  , he reported  a hormone imbalance , underwent a liver transplant in 2009 , and appeared progressively thinner as his health declined .
On medical leave for most of 2011 ,  कार्य  resigned in August that year , and was elected Chairman of the Board .
He died of respiratory arrest related to his  metastatic ट्यूमर  on October 5 , 2011 .
Jobs received a number of honors and  पब्लिक मान्यता लिये उसके influence  in the technology and music industries .
He has  महरूम referred to as `` legendary '' , a `` futurist '' or बस  `` visionary '' , and has been described as the `` Father of the Digital Revolution '' , a `` master of innovation '' , and a `` design perfectionist '' .
Entrance  to खण्ड  ( 52 ) of the Colosseum , with numerals still visible
Roman numerals , the numeric system in  प्राचीन रोम , उपयोग combinations  of letters from the Latin alphabet to signify values .
the संख्याएँ 1 to 10  can be expressed in Roman numerals as follows:
और  .
The Roman numeral  प्रणाली is a cousin  of Etruscan numerals .
Use of Roman  numerals जारी  after the decline of the Roman Empire .
From the 14th century on  , रोमन numerals began to be replaced  in most contexts by more convenient Hindu-Arabic numerals ; however this process was gradual , and the use of Roman numerals in some minor applications continues to this day .
Effective Nuclear  चार्ज  Diagram
The effective nuclear charge ( often symbolize as or Z* ) is the net positive charge experienced by an electron  in a multi-electron  atom .
The term `` effective '' is used because the shielding effect of negatively charged electrons prevents  उच्चतर कक्षीय electrons  from experiencing the full nuclear charge by the repelling effect of inner-layer electrons .
The effective nuclear charge experienced by the outer shell electron is also called  the कोर चार्ज  .
It is possible to determine the strength of the  नाभिकीय चार्ज by looking at  the oxidation number of the atom .
This is a list of episodes from the   Discovery Channel series , Storm Chasers .
a ग्रामीण खींचें of i-5 , साथ दो गलियों in प्रत्येक दिशा अलग by a विशाल grassy मध्य , और साथ cross-traffic सीमित to overpasses और underpasses
The Dwight D. Eisenhower National System of Interstate  और रक्षा राजमार्गों ( commonly ज्ञात as the अंतरराज्यीय राजमार्ग  System , Interstate Freeway System , Interstate System , or simply the Interstate ) is a network of freeways that forms a part of the National Highway System of the United States .
The system is   named for President Dwight D. Eisenhower , who championed its formation .
Construction was authorized by the Federal Aid  राजमार्ग अधिनियम of 1956  , and the original portion was completed 35 years later .
The network has since been extended , and , it had a total length of  , बनाना it the संसार 's दूसरी longest बाद  China 's . , about one-quarter of all vehicle miles driven in the country use the Interstate system .
The cost of  निर्माण रै महरूम अनुमानित  at $ 425 billion ( in 2006 dollars ) , making it the `` largest public works program since the Pyramids `` .
The system has contributed in  shaping the  United States into a world economic superpower and a highly industrialized nation .
.eu is the  country code top-level domain ( ccTLD ) for the European Union ( EU ) .
शुभारम्भ on  7 December 2005 , the domain is available for organisations in and residents of EU member states .
The TLD is  administered by eurid  , a consortium originally consisting of the national ccTLD registry operators of Belgium , Sweden , and Italy , joined later by the national registry operator of the Czech Republic .
Trademark owners were able to submit registrations through a sunrise  काल  , in an effort to prevent cybersquatting .
Full  पंजीकरण प्रारंभ  on 7 April 2006 .
Meister means master in German ( as in master craftsman , or as an honorific title such  as meister  Eckhart ) .
The word is akin to  maestro  .
In sports , Meister is used for the current national , European or world champion ( Deutscher Meister , *Europameister , Weltmeister  )  .
Many modern day  जर्मनी पुलिस शक्तियां  use the title Meister .
During  the दूसरी  World War , Meister was the highest enlisted rank of the Ordnungspolizei .
Meister has  महरूम उधार into  English slang , where it is used in compound nouns .
A person referred to as “Meister” is one who has extensive theoretical knowledge   and practical skills in his profession , business , or some other kind of work or activity .
For  उदाहरण , a “puzzle-meister”  would be someone highly skilled at solving puzzles .
These neologisms sometimes have a sarcastic intent ( for example , “stubble-meister” for someone with a short , neat beard or  “crier-meister”  for someone who often cries ) .
Mighty Morphin Power Rangers is an American  live-action  children 's television series about teenagers with super-powers , based on the 16th installment of the Japanese Super Sentai franchise , Kyōryū Sentai Zyuranger .
Both the show and its related merchandise saw unbridled overnight success  , बनने a स्टेपल  of 1990s pop culture in mere months .
Under the original name , `` Mighty Morphin Power Rangers '' the series ran from 1993 to  1995 और शाखित the विशेषता फिल्मी mighty morphin  Power Rangers : The Movie .
The second and third seasons of the show drew on footage and elements from the Super  sentai श्रेणी gosei sentai dairanger और निंजा sentai  Kakuranger respectively , though the Zyuranger costumes were still used for the five main Rangers and several regular villains .
Only the mecha and the Kiba Ranger costume ( worn by the  श्वेत  Ranger ) were retained from Dairanger for the second season , while only the mecha from Kakuranger were featured in the third season .
However  the kakuranger  costumes were later used for the title characters of the mini-series , Mighty Morphin Alien Rangers .
The series was produced by MMPR Productions , distributed by  saban entertainment  , and aired on Fox Kids .
The show 's merchandise was  उत्पादित  and distributed by Bandai Entertainment .
In 1996 , the series was rebranded as the Power Rangers  मताधिकार ; renaming the श्रेणी प्रत्येक साल बाद ,  and using costumes , props , and footage from subsequent Super Sentai series , as well as changing the cast and storyline .
जबकि an overarching  storyline would continue until Power Rangers Lost Galaxy , subsequent series after MMPR are not sequels or spin-offs in the traditional sense .
In 2010 , a re-version of Mighty Morphin Power Rangers , with a new logo , comic book-referenced graphics , and extra  वैकल्पिक खास प्रभाव , थी  broadcast on ABC Kids , and Bandai produced brand new toys to coincide with the series .
Edgar Allan Poe ( born Edgar Poe ; January 19 , 1809 – October 7 , 1849 ) was an American author , poet , editor and literary critic , considered part  of the अमरीकी  Romantic Movement .
Best known for his tales of mystery and the macabre , Poe was one of the earliest American practitioners of the short story  और is  generally considered the inventor of the detective fiction genre .
He is further credited with contributing to the emerging  विधा of विज्ञान  fiction .
He was the first well-known American writer to try to earn a living through writing  अलोन , resulting in a financially  difficult life and career .
He was born as Edgar Poe in Boston , Massachusetts ; he was orphaned young  जब उसके माँ  died shortly after his father abandoned the family .
Poe was taken in by John and  frances allan , of रिचमंड , वर्जिनिया  , but they never formally adopted him .
He attended  the विश्वविद्यालयों of  Virginia for one semester but left due to lack of money .
After enlisting in the Army and later failing as an  अधिकारी 's cadet at वेस्ट  Point , Poe parted ways with the Allans .
His publishing career began humbly , with an anonymous collection of poems ,  Tamerlane  and Other Poems ( 1827 ) , credited only to `` a Bostonian '' .
Poe switched his focus to prose and spent the next several years working for literary  जर्नल्स और periodicals , बनने  known for his own style of literary criticism .
उसके कार्य मजबूर उसे  to move among several cities , including Baltimore , Philadelphia , and New York City .
In Baltimore in 1835 , he married Virginia Clemm ,  उसके 13-year-old cousin  .
In January 1845 Poe published his poem , `` The  रेवेन  `` , to instant success .
His wife died  of तपेदिक  two years after its publication .
He began planning to produce his own journal , The Penn ( later renamed The Stylus ) , though he died  पहले it could  be produced .
On October 7 , 1849 , at age 40 , Poe died in Baltimore ; the cause of his death is unknown and has been variously attributed to alcohol , brain congestion , cholera ,  drugs ,  heart disease , rabies , suicide , tuberculosis , and other agents .
Poe and his works influenced literature in the United States and around the world , as well as in specialized fields ,  ऐसे as cosmology और  cryptography .
Poe and his  कार्य appear throughout  popular culture in literature , music , films , and television .
A  क्रमांक of उसके  homes are dedicated museums today .
The Mystery Writers of America present an annual award known as the Edgar Award for distinguished work in  the रहस्य विधा  .
Lions are obligate  carnivores ;  they require up to seven kilograms ( 15 lbs ) of meat per day .
A major component  of उनके आहार is the  flesh of large mammals , like this African buffalo .
A carnivore ( ) meaning 'meat eater ' ( Latin , caro meaning 'meat ' or 'flesh ' and vorare meaning 'to devour ' ) is an organism that derives its energy and nutrient requirements from a diet consisting mainly or  exclusively of एनिमल ऊतक , whether through  predation or scavenging .
Animals that depend  solely on एनिमल flesh लिये  their nutrient requirements are considered carnivores while those that also consume non-animal food are considered carnivores .
Omnivores also consume both animal and non-animal food , and apart  from the more general  definition , there is no clearly defined ratio of plant to animal material that would distinguish a facultative carnivore from an omnivore .
A  carnivore कि  sits at the top of the foodchain is an apex predator .
Plants that capture and  डाइजेस्ट कीट  are called carnivorous plants .
Similarly , fungi  कि कैप्चर  microscopic animals are often called carnivorous fungi .
The FIFA World Cup , often simply the World Cup , is an international  संघ फ़ुटबॉल प्रतियोगिता लडे  by the senior men 's national teams of the members of Fédération Internationale de Football Association ( FIFA ) , the sport 's global governing body .
The championship has been awarded every four years since the inaugural tournament in 1930 , except in 1942 and 1946 when it was not held  क्युकी of the  Second World War .
The current champions  हैं स्पेन ,  who won the 2010 tournament .
the वर्तमान स्वरूप of the टूर्नामेंट involves 32 टीमों स्पर्धा लिये the शीर्षक at venues भीतर the मेजबान स्वदेश ( s ) over a काल of परिचय a माह ; इस phase is प्रायः पुकारा the संसार  Cup Finals .
A qualification phase , which currently takes place over the preceding three years , is used to  determine  which teams qualify for the tournament together with the host nation ( s ) .
The 19  संसार कप tournaments  have been won by eight different national teams .
Brazil have won five times , and they  हैं the तभी  team to have played in every tournament .
The other World Cup winners are  इटली , साथ  four titles ; Germany , with three titles ; Argentina and inaugural winners Uruguay , with two titles each ; and England , France , and Spain , with one title each .
The World Cup is the world 's most widely viewed sporting event ; an estimated 715.1  लाख लोगों देखी  the final match of the 2006 FIFA World Cup held in Germany .
the अगला तीन संसार  Cups will be hosted by Brazil in 2014 , Russia in 2018 , and Qatar in 2022 .
Heroes is an American science fiction television drama series created by Tim Kring that appeared on NBC for four seasons from  सितंबर 25 , 2006 through  February 8 , 2010 .
The series tells the stories of ordinary   people who discover superhuman abilities , and how these abilities take effect in the characters ' lives .
The series emulates the aesthetic style and storytelling of American comic books , using multi-episode story arcs that build  upon a larger , अधिक encompassing चाप  .
The  श्रेणी थी उत्पादित  by Tailwind Productions in association with Universal Media Studios .
It was filmed primarily in Los Angeles , California   .
Four complete seasons aired ,  समाप्ति on  February 8 , 2010 .
The critically acclaimed first season had a run of 23 episodes and garnered an average of 14.3 million viewers in the United States , receiving the highest rating for an NBC drama  प्रीमियर in पाँच सालो  .
The second season of Heroes attracted an average of 13.1 million viewers in the U.S. , and marked NBC 's sole series among the top  20 क्रमित कार्यक्रम in कुल viewership लिये  the 2007–2008 season .
Heroes has earned a number of awards  और  nominations , including Primetime Emmy Awards , Golden Globes , People 's Choice Awards and British Academy Television Awards .
An online extension of the series , Heroes 360 Experience ,  बाद rebranded as नायक  Evolutions , was created to explore the Heroes universe and provides insight into the show 's mythology .
Other official Heroes media include magazines , action figures , tie-in   and interactive websites , a mobile game , a novel , clothing and other merchandise .
In the fall of 2008 , NBC Digital Entertainment released a series of online content for the  गर्मियाँ , सहित अधिक असली  web content , wireless iTV interactivity , graphic novels available for mobile viewing and webisodes .
NBC announced Heroes cancellation on  may 14 , 2010  .
Afterward , the  संजाल माना बनाना a टेलीविज़न खास  event to conclude the series ; however , on September 9 , 2010 , NBC announced the decision to stop any further development of the Heroes franchise .
Tim Kring then  सुझाया कि the व्यापक आधार  of Heroes storylines allowed for the franchise to return for fans , but he did not specify when or in what media format .
On April 17 , 2013 , TV Line reported that MSN  थी in  talks to revive the series with a new cast .
John  pierpont ``  J. P . ''
Morgan ( April 17 , 1837 – March 31 , 1913 ) was an American financier ,  बैंकर , लोकसेवक  and art collector who dominated corporate finance and industrial consolidation during his time .
In 1892 Morgan arranged the  विलय of एडिसन  General Electric and Thomson-Houston Electric Company to form General Electric .
After financing the creation of the Federal Steel Company , he  मिलाया in 1901 साथ  the Carnegie Steel Company and several other steel and iron businesses , including Consolidated Steel and Wire Company owned by William Edenborn , to form the United States Steel Corporation .
Morgan died in Rome , Italy , in his sleep in  1913 at the age of 75 ,  leaving his fortune and business to his son , John Pierpont `` Jack '' Morgan , Jr. , and bequeathing his mansion and large book collections to The Morgan Library & Museum in New York .
At the height of Morgan 's career during the early 1900s , he and his   partners had financial investments in many large corporations and were accused by critics of controlling the nation 's high finance .
He directed  the बैंकिंग  coalition that stopped the Panic of 1907 .
He was the leading financier of the  प्रगतिशील era , और उसके  dedication to efficiency and modernization helped transform American business .
This is a list  of एपीसोड  of the television series .
The episodes were directed by Shigeru Ueda and produced by the Yggdrasil Executive Committee which  शामिल  Xebec and Genco .
The plot of the episodes is set  in Tokyo and  revolves around Rin Asōgi , an immortal private investigator , as she explores the secrets of modern and near-future world and the supernatural events that surround the fictional society of immortals like herself .
There are large time gaps in the internal chronology between the first five episodes  , ranging इससे एक to तीस सालो  .
The six episodes  यहूद  broadcast monthly on AT-X channel in Japan , between February 3 and July 6 , 2008 .
प्रत्येक  episode is 45 minutes long .
Two pieces of theme music are used for the episodes : the opening theme `` Alsatia '' and  the समाप्ति थीम `` कारण अस्तव्यस्तता  '' .
Both were composed and  performed  by the Japanese metal band Galneryus .
The series was produced to commemorate the tenth anniversary of the AT-X network it  originally  aired on .
Aerial photo of FLETC , where US digital forensics standards were  विकसित  in the 1980s and '90s
Digital forensics ( sometimes known as digital forensic science ) is a branch of forensic science encompassing  the रिकवरी और छानबीन of सामग्री मिला  in digital devices , often in relation to computer crime .
The term digital forensics was originally used as a synonym for computer forensics but has expanded to cover  छानबीन of सब डिवाइस  capable of storing digital data .
With roots in the personal computing revolution of the late  1970s और जल्दी  '80s , the discipline evolved in a haphazard manner during the 1990s , and it was not until the early 21st century that national policies emerged .
Digital forensics investigations have  a किस्में of अनुप्रयोग  .
The most common is to support or refute a hypothesis before  दण्ड or सिविल ( as भाग of the  electronic discovery process ) courts .
Forensics may also feature in the private sector  ; such  as during internal corporate investigations or intrusion investigation ( a specialist probe into the nature and extent of an unauthorized network intrusion ) .
The technical aspect of  an छानबीन is विभाजित into  several sub-branches , relating to the type of digital devices involved ; computer forensics , network forensics , forensic data analysis and mobile device forensics .
The typical forensic process encompasses the seizure , forensic imaging ( acquisition ) and analysis of digital media  और the उत्पादन  of a report into collected evidence .
As well as identifying direct evidence of a crime , digital forensics can be used to attribute evidence to specific suspects , confirm alibis  or कथन , determine intent , पहचानो स्त्रोत ( लिये उदाहरण  , in copyright cases ) , or authenticate documents .
Investigations are much broader in scope than other areas of  forensic विश्लेषण ( जहाँ  the usual aim is to provide answers to a series of simpler questions ) often involving complex time-lines or hypotheses .
A comparison of the chromaticities  enclosed  by some color spaces .
A color model is an abstract mathematical model describing the way colors   can be represented as tuples of numbers , typically as three or four values or color components ( e.g . RGB and CMYK are color models ) .
However , a color model with no associated mapping function to an absolute color space is a more or less arbitrary color  प्रणाली साथ no कनेक्शन  to any globally understood system of color interpretation .
adding a निश्चित  mapping function between the color model and a certain reference color space results in a definite `` footprint '' within the reference color space .
This `` footprint '' is known as a gamut , and , in combination with the color  मॉडल , defines  a new color space .
For example , Adobe RGB and sRGB are two different absolute color  स्पेसेस , दोनो  based on the RGB model .
In the most generic  भाव  of the definition above , color spaces can be defined without the use of a color model .
These spaces , such as Pantone , are in effect a  दिए  set of names or numbers which are defined by the existence of a corresponding set of physical color swatches .
This article focuses on the  गणितीय मॉडल  concept .
Labor Day is an American  federal  holiday observed on the first Monday in September , that celebrates the economic and social contributions of workers .
Life insurance is a contract between an insured ( insurance policy holder ) and an insurer ,  जहाँ the insurer वादे to अदा a designated लाभार्थी  a sum of money ( the `` benefits '' ) upon the death of the insured person .
Depending on the contract , other events such  as टर्मिनल बीमारी  or critical illness may also trigger payment .
The policy holder typically pays a premium , either  regularly or as a lump  sum .
Other expenses ( such as funeral expenses ) are also sometimes  शामिल  in the benefits .
Life policies are legal contracts and the terms of the contract  describe the  limitations of the insured events .
Specific exclusions are often written into the   contract to limit the liability of the insurer ; common examples are claims relating to suicide , fraud , war , riot and civil commotion .
Life-based contracts tend  to  fall into two major categories:
Protection policies – designed to provide a benefit in the  इवेंट of निर्दिष्ट इवेंट , typically  a lump sum payment .
A  आम रूप of इस  design is term insurance .
Investment policies –  जहाँ the प्रमुख उद्देश्य  is to facilitate the growth of capital by regular or single premiums .
आम फ़ॉर्म  ( in the US ) are whole life , universal life and variable life policies .
{ {  infobox  Holiday
चाइनीज नई साल
9 – 12 फ़रवरी  ( Vietnam )
Mitzi Gaynor Donahue ( born May 2 , 1962 in Yorba Linda , Orange County , California ) is an American actress , also credited and  अधिक popularly ज्ञात as mitzi  Kapture .
Kapture began her career in films , most of which were not huge commercial  सफलताओं  .
She went on to make a few television guest appearances ( MacGyver , 1st & Ten , and as a contestant on The $ 100,000 Pyramid )  पहले वो gained  international exposure with her first major television role as Sergeant Rita Lee Lance in the television series Silk Stalkings .
Kapture 's role as Rita , the other half of the two  `` sams ''  for almost 5 years , cemented her popularity .
Paired with Rob Estes who played Sergeant Chris Lorenzo , Kapture gained  वैश्विक  recognition along with her costar since the show was broadcast in several countries .
Sergeant Lance eventually became  लेफ्टिनेंट  Lance by the time Kapture left the series in 1995 to have her first child Madison .
दौरान उसके समय साथ the श्रेणी , kapture briefly सत in the निदेशक 's कुर्सी , लिये दो एपीसोड  .
She was interviewed for the Silk Stalkings Season 1 DVD which was distributed by  लंगर खाड़ी entertainment  and released in September 2004 .
After a  छोटी अंतराल इससे the स्क्रीन following  her exit from Silk Stalkings , Kapture returned in 1997 to the small screen and USA Network .
She played lead roles in two USA Pictures Originals telemovies , Perfect Crime ( based on a true story ,  भी पुकारा छुपा और तलाश : the जोआन जेन्सेन स्टोरी  ) , which also starred Jasmine Guy and His Bodyguard .
She later starred in a few other independent film  प्रोजेक्ट और थिएटर  productions and had several television guest appearances .
Kapture also had a recurring role on  बेवाच as  Alexis Ryker .
She played Anita Hodges on The Young and the Restless from  2002 through 2004  , where she was credited as Mitzi Kapture Donahue , and starred in the made-for-TV movie Night of Terror which premiered March 26 , 2006 on Lifetime Network .
Her latest  is a supporting  role in God 's Ears , released in 2007 .
Kapture is the official celebrity  प्रवक्ता  for the Xeroderma Pigmentosum Society .
The Xbox 360 is the second video game console developed by and produced for Microsoft and  the successor  to the Xbox .
the एक्सबॉक्स 360 competes साथ सोनी 's प्लेस्टेशन 3 और निन्टेंडो 's वी as भाग of the सातवाँ पीढी of वीडियो खेल consoles  .
As of September 30 , 2012 , 70 million Xbox 360 consoles  have  been sold worldwide .
The Xbox 360 was officially unveiled on MTV on May 12 , 2005 , with detailed launch  and  game information divulged later that month at the Electronic Entertainment Expo ( E3 ) .
The console sold out completely upon release in all  regions मगर  in Japan .
Several major features of the Xbox 360 are its integrated Xbox Live service that allows players to compete online ; download arcade games , game demos , trailers , TV  shows ,  music and movies ; and its Windows Media Center multimedia capabilities .
The  एक्सबॉक्स सजीव  also offers access to various ( often region-specific ) third-party media streaming applications .
At their E3 presentation on June 14 , 2010 ,  microsoft घोषित a  redesigned Xbox 360 that would ship on the same day .
The redesigned  कंसोल is slimmer than the पिछला एक्सबॉक्स 360 मॉडल और सुविधाएँ एकीकृत 802.11 b/g/n  Wi-Fi , TOSLINK S/PDIF optical audio output , five USB 2.0 ports ( compared to the three from older versions ) and a special AUX port .
Older models of the Xbox 360 have since been  discontinued  .
The first new  कंसोल to be  released features a 250 GB hard drive , while a later , less expensive SKU features 4 GB internal storage .
Backpack may also  refer to  a 2001 novel by Emily Barr
A  आधुनिक backpack
Swiss army  backpack  ca . 1960
Integrated  तुमको फ़्रेम  .
A backpack ( also called rucksack , knapsack ,  packsack , पैक ) is , in इसके सरलतम  form , a cloth sack carried on one 's back and secured with two straps that go over the shoulders , but there can be exceptions .
lightweight प्रकार of backpacks  are sometimes worn on only one shoulder strap .
Backpacks are often  पसन्दीदा to हैंडबैग लिये carrying  heavy loads or carrying any sort of equipment , because of the limited capacity to carry heavy weights for long periods of time in the hands .
Large backpacks , used to carry loads over 10 kg ( 22 lbs ) , usually offload the largest part (  up to परिचय  90 % ) of their weight onto padded hip belts , leaving the shoulder straps mainly for stabilising the load .
This  improves the संभावित to carry  heavy loads , as the hips are stronger than the shoulders , and also increases agility and balance , since the load rides nearer the wearer 's own center of mass .
In ancient times , the backpack was used as a  अर्थात् to carry the शिकारी  's larger game and other types of prey and as a way of easier transport for other materials .
In the cases of larger hunts , the hunters would  dismember  their prey and distribute the pieces of the animal around , each one packing the meat into many wrappings and then into bags which they placed on to their backs .
The bag itself was made up of different animal hide and skin ( depending on what sorts of animals were in the area ) and sewn together by the intestines of said animals , which were woven  साथ tightly to मेक  a sturdy thread-like material .
Mexico ( ; ; ) , officially the United Mexican States ( ) , is a federal constitutional   republic in North America .
It is  bordered on the उत्तर  by the United States ; on the south and west by the Pacific Ocean ; on the southeast by Guatemala , Belize , and the Caribbean Sea ; and on the east by the Gulf of Mexico .
Covering almost two million square kilometres ( over 760,000 sq mi ) , Mexico is the fifth largest country in the Americas by total area and the 13th largest  स्वतंत्र स्वदेश in the संसार  .
With an estimated  जनसांख्यिकी of over 113 लाख  , it is the world 's eleventh most populous country and the most populous Spanish-speaking country .
Mexico is a federation comprising thirty-one states and a Federal District , the  पूंजी नगर  .
In pre-Columbian Mexico   many cultures matured into advanced civilizations such as the Olmec , the Toltec , the Teotihuacan , the Zapotec , the Maya and the Aztec before first contact with Europeans .
In 1521 , Spain conquered and colonized the territory from its base in México-Tenochtitlan ,  which was  administered as the Viceroyalty of New Spain .
इस territory होता आखिरकार  become Mexico following recognition of the colony 's independence in 1821 .
The post-independence period was characterized by economic instability , the Mexican-American War and  territorial cession to the  United States , a civil war , two empires and a domestic dictatorship .
The latter led to the Mexican Revolution in 1910 , which culminated with the promulgation of the 1917  संविधान और the emergence of the देश 's  current political system .
Elections held in July 2000 marked the first  समय कि an विपक्ष पार्टी  won the presidency from the Institutional Revolutionary Party .
Since 2006 the country has been in the midst of a drug war which has caused 60,000  मौतों  .
मैक्सिको रै एक of the  world 's largest economies , and is considered both a regional power and middle power .
In addition ,  मैक्सिको थी the पहला लैटिन अमरीकी सदस्य of  the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development OECD ( since 1994 ) , and considered an upper-middle income country by the World Bank .
Mexico is  माना a  newly industrialized country and an emerging power .
It has the fourteenth largest nominal GDP and the eleventh largest GDP by purchasing   power parity .
The economy is strongly linked to those of its North American Free Trade  अनुबंध ( nafta ) साझेदार , विशेषकर  the United States of America .
Mexico ranks sixth in the world and first in the Americas by  क्रमांक of युनेस्को  World Heritage Sites with 31 , and in 2007 was the tenth most visited country in the world with 21.4 million international arrivals per year .
Babe Ruth holds the MLB career  slugging प्रतिशत  record ( .690 ) .
In baseball statistics , slugging percentage ( abbreviated SLG ) is a popular  माप  of the power of a hitter .
It is calculated as total bases  विभाजित by at bats  :
where AB is the number of at-bats for a  दिए खिलाड़ी ,  and 1B , 2B , 3B , and HR are the number of singles , doubles , triples , and home runs , respectively .
Walks  हैं specifically  excluded from this calculation .
For example , in 1920 , Babe Ruth played his first season for the New  यॉर्क यांकीज़  .
In 458 at bats , Ruth had 172 hits , comprising 73 singles , 36 doubles , 9 triples , and 54 home runs , which brings the total base count to ( 73  × 1 ) + ( 36 × 2 ) + ( 9 × 3 ) + (  54 × 4 ) = 388 .
His total number of bases ( 388 ) divided by his total at-bats ( 458 )  is .847 , उसके slugging प्रतिशत  for the season .
The next year he slugged .846 , and these records went unbroken until 2001 , when Barry Bonds achieved 411 bases in 476 at-bats  , bringing उसके slugging प्रतिशत to .863 , बेमेल  since .
is a role-playing video game developed and published  by वर्गाकार ( अभी वर्गाकार एनिक्स  ) for the Super Nintendo Entertainment System in 1995 .
Chrono Trigger 's development team included three designers that Square dubbed the `` Dream Team '' : Hironobu Sakaguchi , the creator of Square 's Final Fantasy series ; Yuji Horii ,  a freelance पंक्तियां और निर्माता  of Enix 's popular Dragon Quest series ; and Akira Toriyama , a freelance manga artist famed for his work with Dragon Quest and Dragon Ball .
Kazuhiko Aoki produced the game , Masato Kato  लिखा सबसे of the प्लाट , जबकि composer  Yasunori Mitsuda scored most of the game before falling ill and deferring remaining tracks to Final Fantasy composer Nobuo Uematsu .
The game 's story follows a group of adventurers who travel  through समय to prevent  a global catastrophe .
Square re-released a ported version by Tose in Japan for Sony 's PlayStation in 1999 , later repackaged with a Final Fantasy IV port as Final Fantasy Chronicles in 2001  for  the North American market .
A slightly enhanced Chrono Trigger was released for the Nintendo DS on November 25 , 2008 , in North America and Japan , and went on sale in Australia on February 3 , 2009 and in  यूरोपीय on फ़रवरी 6 , 2009  .
The game was never released in PAL  territories  before the Nintendo DS version .
Chrono Trigger was a critical and commercial success upon release and is considered  today to  be one of the greatest video games of all time .
Nintendo Power magazine described aspects of Chrono Trigger as revolutionary , including its multiple  endings , plot-related sidequests focusing on अक्षर  development , unique battle system , and detailed graphics .
Chrono Trigger was the third best-selling game of 1995 , and the game 's SNES and PlayStation  iterations have shipped  2.65 million copies as of March 2003 .
The version for the Nintendo DS sold 790,000 copies as of  कूच 2009  .
Chrono Trigger was also ported to mobile phones ,  आभासी कंसोल , the प्लेस्टेशन  Network ( only in the USA ) , iOS devices , and Android devices .
बकरी चीज
Goat  चीज  , or chèvre ( from the French word for goat ) , is cheese made out of the milk of goats .
Hyperthermia is elevated body temperature due to failed  thermoregulation कि occurs जब  a body produces or absorbs more heat than it dissipates .
Extreme temperature elevation then becomes a medical emergency requiring immediate  उपचार to prevent विकलांगता  or death .
The   most common causes include heat stroke and adverse reactions to drugs .
The former is an acute temperature elevation caused  by एक्सपोज़र to excessive ऊष्मा , or संयोजन  of heat and humidity , that overwhelms the heat-regulating mechanisms .
The latter is a relatively rare side effect of many drugs , particularly those that affect the central   nervous system .
Malignant hyperthermia is a  विरल complication of  some types of general anesthesia .
Hyperthermia can also  be deliberately induced using दवाएँ  or medical devices and may be used in the treatment of some kinds of cancer and other conditions , most commonly in conjunction with radiotherapy .
Hyperthermia differs from fever in that the  देह 's तापमान  set point remains unchanged .
The opposite is hypothermia ,  जिससे occurs जब  the temperature drops below that required to maintain normal metabolism .
Belize , is a country located on the  northeastern coast of सेंट्रल  America .
It is the only country in the area where English is the official language , although Kriol and Spanish are  अधिक commonly  spoken .
Belize is bordered on the north by Mexico , to the  दक्षिण और वेस्ट by ग्वाटेमाला  and to the east by the Caribbean Sea .
Its mainland is  परिचय long और  wide .
With of land and a population of only 312,698 inhabitants ( 2010  जनसांख्यिकी ) , बेलीज़ possesses  the lowest population density in Central America .
The country 's population growth rate of 3.15 % ( 2012 est . ) is the second highest in the region and one  of the उच्चतम in the पश्चिमी  hemisphere .
Belize 's abundance of terrestrial and marine species , and its diversity of ecosystems give it a  कुंजी प्लेस भीतर the globally significant  Mesoamerican Biological Corridor .
Belize has a diverse society , comprising  अनेक  cultures and languages .
It is the only nation  in  the region with a British colonial heritage , but as a part of the Western Caribbean Zone , it also shares a common heritage with the fellow Anglophone Caribbean countries .
In general , Belize is considered to be  a सेंट्रल अमरीकी  and Caribbean nation with strong ties to both the Caribbean and Latin America .
Belize is a member of the Caribbean Community ( CARICOM ) , the Community of  लैटिन अमरीकी और caribbean  States ( CELAC ) , and Central American Integration System ( SICA ) .
Belize is known for its September  जश्न , और  is the birthplace of chewing gum and Punta Rock .
The ``  बेट्सी  Ross '' flag
a  `` Betsy Ross '' flag flying outside San Francisco City Hall
The Betsy Ross flag is an early design of the flag of the United States , popularly attributed to Betsy  रॉस , using the आम motifs of प्रत्यावर्ती red-and-white  striped field with five-pointed stars in a blue canton .
The flag was designed during the American Revolution and features 13 stars to represent the  असली 13 colonies  .
the distinctive विशेषता  of the Ross flag is the arrangement of the stars in a circle .
Although the Betsy Ross story is accepted by most Americans , some flag historians and revisionists do not accept the  बेट्सी रॉस डिज़ाइन as the पहला  American flag .
According to the traditional  खाता , the असली ध्वज थी बना in जून 1776 , जब a छोटी committee—including  George Washington , Robert Morris and relative George Ross —visited Betsy and discussed the need for a new American flag .
Betsy accepted the job to manufacture the flag , altering the committee 's design by replacing  the six-pointed  stars with five-pointed stars .
While the Betsy Ross legend is questionable  , the ध्वज डिज़ाइन is ज्ञात to  have been in use by 1777 ; Alfred B . Street described it at the surrender of General Burgoyne and understood the circle of stars to represent equality among the American states .
It is one of the  oldest  versions of U.S. flags known to exist ; while it is not the oldest surviving flag artifact in cloth form , its likeness appears on older physical relics , namely , the contemporary battlefield paintings by John Trumbull and Charles Willson Peale .
They depict the circular star arrangement being flown from  जलयान  masts and many other places , and thus provide the first known historical documentation of the flag 's appearance .
The seal of the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs uses the Betsy Ross flag to represent service to  सब  veterans from the American Revolution to the present day .
The Betsy Ross design of 13-star US flags has been featured in many popular artworks ( sometimes inaccurately ,  as in वॉशिंगटन  Crossing the Delaware ) and films , such as the 1960 version of Pollyanna .
The flag continues to be one of the most popular  प्रतीकों of the अमरीकी  Revolution .
A purr  is a ध्वनि बना by सब  species of felids and is a part of cat communication .
It varies  between  cats ( for example by loudness and tone ) , and from species to species , but can be characterized as a tonal buzzing .
The term `` purring ''  रै महरूम प्रयुक्त liberally in  literature , and it has been claimed that viverrids ( civet , mongoose , genet ) , bears , badgers , hyaenas ( et cetera ) purr .
Other animals that have been said to purr  हैं खरगोश , squirrels  , guinea pigs , tapirs , ring-tailed lemurs , elephants , raccoons and gorillas while eating .
However , using a strict definition of purring that continuous sound production must alternate between pulmonic egressive and ingressive airstream ( and  प्रायः go on लिये मिनट्स ) , पीटर्स ( 2002 ) , in an विस्तृत पुनर्विलोकन of the वैज्ञानिक साहित्य  , reached the conclusion that until then only ‘purring cats’ ( Felidae ) and two species of genets , Genetta tigrina , and most likely also Genetta genetta , had been documented to purr .
The platypus ( Ornithorhynchus anatinus ) is a semiaquatic mammal endemic to eastern Australia , including   Tasmania .
Together with the four species of echidna , it is one of the five extant species of monotremes , the only mammals that lay eggs instead  of giving  birth .
It is the sole living representative of its family ( Ornithorhynchidae ) and genus (  ornithorhynchus  ) , though a number of related species have been found in the fossil record .
The unusual appearance of this egg-laying , duck -billed , beaver -tailed , otter -footed mammal  मनोरथ यूरोपीय naturalists  when they first encountered it , with some considering it an elaborate fraud .
It is one of the few venomous mammals , the male platypus having a spur on the  हिन्द पैर  that delivers a venom capable of causing severe pain to humans .
The unique features of the platypus make it an important subject in the study of  विकासवादी जीवविज्ञान और a  recognisable and iconic symbol of Australia ; it has appeared as a mascot at national events and is featured on the reverse of its 20-cent coin .
The platypus is the animal emblem  of the राज्य of  New South Wales .
Until the  जल्दी 20th सदी ,  it was hunted for its fur , but it is now protected throughout its range .
Although captive breeding programmes have had only limited success and the platypus is vulnerable to the  प्रभाव of प्रदूषण , it is नहीं अंतर्गत कोई  immediate threat .
St. Elizabeth is a village in Miller County  , मिसौरी , संयुक्त  States .
The population was 336 at the 2010  जनसांख्यिकी  .
Wilton is a census-designated place ( CDP ) in Sacramento County ,  कैलिफ़ोर्निया , संयुक्त  States .
It is part of the Sacramento –  arden-arcade – roseville महानगर  Statistical Area .
The population  थी  5,363 at the 2010 census , up from 4,551 at the 2000 census .
In human-computer interaction , cut and paste and copy and paste are related commands that offer a user-interface interaction technique for transferring text ,  आंकड़ा , फाइलें  or objects from a source to a destination .
Most ubiquitously , users require the ability to cut and paste  भाग of मैदान टेक्स्ट .
The cut command removes the selected data from  its original  position , while the copy command creates a duplicate ; in both cases the selected data is placed in a clipboard .
The data in the clipboard is later inserted  in the स्थिति जहाँ the paste कमांड  is issued .
The command  names हैं an इंटरफ़ेस  metaphor based on the physical procedure used in manuscript editing to create a page layout .
इस बातचीत तकनीक  has close associations with related techniques in graphical user interfaces that use pointing devices such as a computer mouse ( by drag and drop , for example ) .
Economic order quantity is the order quantity  कि minimizes कुल inventory  holding costs and ordering costs .
It is one of the oldest classical production scheduling  मॉडल .
The framework used to determine this order quantity is also known as  barabas eoq मॉडल  or Barabas Formula .
The model was developed by Ford W. Harris in 1913 , but R. H. Wilson , a consultant who applied it extensively , is given credit for  his  in-depth analysis .
Stephen `` Stevie '' Ray Vaughan ( October 3 , 1954 – August 27 , 1990 ) was an American  guitarist , singer-songwriter  , and record producer .
Often referred to by  उसके आद्याक्षर srv , vaughan is बेहतरीन  known as a founding member and leader of Double Trouble .
Together with drummer Chris Layton and bassist Tommy Shannon , they ignited  the ब्लूज़ पुनरुद्धार  of the 1980s .
With a career spanning seven years , Vaughan and Double Trouble  consistently  sold out concerts while their albums frequently went gold .
He was born and   raised in Dallas , Texas , and for a short period of time lived in Graham , Texas .
As the younger brother of Jimmie Vaughan , Vaughan started playing the guitar at age seven and formed several bands that occasionally  performed in लोकल nightclubs  .
At age 17 , he dropped out of  ऊँची स्कूल और  moved to Austin to further pursue his musical career , joining groups such as Krackerjack , the Nightcrawlers , and the Cobras .
In 1977 , he formed Triple  threat revue , a बैंड कि आखिरकार  evolved into Double Trouble and regularly performed around Austin .
In 1982 ,  vaughan और दोगुना ट्रबल performed  at the Montreux Jazz Festival in Switzerland , catching the attention of musicians David Bowie and Jackson Browne .
Bowie asked Vaughan to play on his upcoming studio album Let 's Dance , while Browne offered the  बैंड फ़्री उपयोग of उसके निजी स्टुडियो  in Los Angeles to record an album .
In March 1983 , Vaughan and  दोगुना ट्रबल यहूद हस्ताक्षरित to एपिक रिकॉर्ड  by veteran record producer John Hammond Sr. and released their debut album , Texas Flood in June of that year .
बाद कामयाब touring , the समूह released the एल्बम , could n't स्टैंड the मौसम ( 1984 ) और आत्मा to आत्मा ( 1985 ) , the latter of जिससे प्रदर्शित नई keyboardist रीज़ wynans  .
Although his career had progressed successfully  , Vaughan  checked into a rehabilitation hospital in Atlanta , Georgia to give up a cocaine and alcohol habit and returned to touring with the band .
In June 1989 , In Step was released and earned them  a Grammy  Award for Best Contemporary Blues Performance .
On August 27 , 1990 , Vaughan was killed in a helicopter crash following a  प्रदर्शन  in East Troy , Wisconsin .
Vaughan 's uniquely  eclectic yet तीव्र  style was derived from a variety of musical genres .
He was influenced by blues musicians including  अल्बर्ट किंग , फ्रेडी किंग , ओटिस फटाफट , और  Muddy Waters , and rock guitarists such as Jimi Hendrix and Lonnie Mack .
His guitar  playing  reflected the classic blues and pentatonic scales .
He has  प्राप्त चौड़ी नाजुक  recognition for his guitar playing , ranking at # 6 on Rolling Stones list of `` 100 Greatest Guitarists '' in 2011 .
He was posthumously inducted into the Blues Hall of Fame in  2000 और a मेमोरियल प्रतिमा थी erected in ऑस्टिन  's Auditorium Shores park .
Stevie Ray Vaughan is  widely माना  to be one of the greatest musicians to come from the state of Texas .
The Las Vegas Strip World of  coca-cola  museum in 2003
Coca-Cola is a carbonated soft drink  बेची in स्टोर्स , रेस्तरां , और वेंडिंग  machines in every country except Cuba and North Korea .
It is produced by The Coca-Cola Company of Atlanta , Georgia , and is often referred to simply as Coke ( a registered trademark of The Coca-Cola Company in the United  राज्य चूंकि कूच  27 , 1944 ) .
Originally intended as a patent medicine when it was invented in the late 19th century by John Pemberton , Coca-Cola was bought out by businessman Asa Griggs Candler , whose marketing  tactics led कोक to इसके दबदबा of the संसार soft-drink मार्केट  throughout the 20th century .
The company produces concentrate , which is then sold to licensed  coca-cola bottlers throughout the  world .
The bottlers , who hold territorially exclusive contracts with the company , produce finished product in cans and bottles from the concentrate in  संयोजन साथ filtered  water and sweeteners .
The bottlers then sell ,  वितरित और merchandise  Coca-Cola to retail stores and vending machines .
Such bottlers include Coca-Cola Enterprises , which is the largest  सिंगल coca-cola bottler in उत्तर  America and western Europe .
The Coca-Cola Company also  बिकता concentrate  for soda fountains to major restaurants and food service distributors .
The Coca-Cola Company has , on occasion , introduced other cola drinks   under the Coke brand name .
The most common of these is Diet Coke ,  साथ अन्य सहित caffeine-free coca-cola  , Diet Coke Caffeine-Free , Coca-Cola Cherry , Coca-Cola Zero , Coca-Cola Vanilla , and special versions with lemon , lime or coffee .
Based on Interbrand 's best global brand  2011 , coca-cola  was the world 's most valuable brand .
Barry Louis Larkin ( born  अप्रैल 28  , 1964 ) is a retired Major League Baseball player .
Larkin played shortstop for the Cincinnati Reds from 1986 to 2004 and was one of the pivotal   players on the 1990 Reds ' World Series championship team .
Larkin was elected to the National Baseball Hall of Fame in January  2012 और थी inducted on  July 22 .
Larkin is  माना एक  of the top players of his era , winning nine Silver Slugger awards and three Gold Glove awards .
He  थी चयनित  to the Major League All-Star Game twelve times , and was elected the 1995 National League Most Valuable Player .
Brasília ( ) is the federal capital of Brazil and the seat of government  of the  Federal District .
Administratively , the city  is स्तिथ in the  Federal District which is in the Central-West Region .
physically , it is स्तिथ  in the Brazilian Highlands .
It has a population of about 2,562,963 ( 3,716,996 in the metropolitan area ) as of the 2008 IBGE estimate ,  बनाना it the  fourth largest city in Brazil .
However , as a metropolitan area ,  it बाँधने  lower at sixth in population .
Brasília is the largest city in the world that did not exist at the beginning of  the 20th सदी  .
Brasília has the fifth largest GDP among Latin American cities and the third  in ब्राज़ील .
At around R $ 62,000 Brazilian reais ( equal to approximately $ 30,900 US dollars or €23,000 euros ) , the city 's per  capita आय is the  highest among Brazil 's largest cities .
As the national  capital ,  Brasília is the seat of all three branches of the federal government of Brazil .
The city also  होस्ट the  headquarters of many Brazilian companies .
नियोजन नीतियों ऐसे as the स्थान  of residential buildings around expansive urban areas , as well as building the city around large avenues and dividing it into sectors , have sparked a debate and reflection on life in big cities in the 20th century .
The city 's design divides it into numbered blocks  as खूब as  sectors for specified activities , such as the Hotel Sector , the Banking Sector or the Embassy Sector .
brasília होस्ट  124 foreign embassies .
The city was planned and developed in 1956 with Lúcio Costa as the principal urban planner , Oscar Niemeyer as the principal  वास्तु और रॉबर्टो burle  Marx as the landscape designer .
Brasilia is in the Unesco 's  संसार hertitage  List due to its architecture .
On April 22 , 1960 , it  formally became ब्राज़ील  's national capital .
viewed इससे ऊपर ,  the main portion of the city resembles an airplane or a butterfly .
The city is commonly  referred to as पूंजी  Federal , or simply BSB .
Residents of  brasília हैं ज्ञात as brasilienses or candangos ( the latter  referring to those not born in the city but who migrated there after it was established ) .
In local usage , the word  `` brasília  '' usually refers only to the First Administrative Region ( RA I ) within the Federal District ( Distrito Federal ) , where the most important government buildings are located .
brasília रै a अद्वितीय  status in Brazil , as it is an administrative division rather than a legal municipality like nearly all cities in Brazil .
Nationally , the term is almost always used synonymously with the  संघीय ज़िला , जिससे constitutes  an indivisible Federative Unit , analogous to a state .
Several `` satellite cities '' exist which are also part of the Federal  ज़िला .
Brasília International Airport is the main airport in Brasília , connecting the capital to all major Brazilian  शहरों और अनेक अंतरराष्ट्रीय  destinations .
It is the third most important  विमानक्षेत्र in  Brazil , in terms of passengers and aircraft movements .
personifications  of Germany , France , Russia , Austria-Hungary , and the United Kingdom attempting to keep the lid on the simmering cauldron of imperialist and nationalist tensions in the Balkans to prevent a general European war .
They were successful in 1912 and 1913 but did not  सफल  in in 1914 .
The causes of World War I , which began in  central  Europe in late July 1914 and finished in 1918 , included many factors , such as the conflicts and hostility of the four decades leading up to the war .
Militarism , alliances , imperialism , and nationalism played major roles in   the conflict as well .
The immediate origins of the war , however , lay in the decisions taken by statesmen and generals during the Crisis of 1914 , casus belli for which was the assassination of Archduke Franz  फर्डिनेंड ( the archduke of ऑस्ट्रिया हंगेरियाई  ) and his wife Sophie by Gavrilo Princip , an irredentist Serb .
The crisis came after a long  और मुश्किल  series of diplomatic clashes between the Great Powers ( Italy , France , Germany , the British Empire , the Austria-Hungarian Empire and Russia ) over European and colonial issues in the decade before 1914 that had left tensions high .
In turn these diplomatic clashes can be  traced to  changes in the balance of power in Europe since 1867 .
The more immediate cause  लिये the युद्ध  was tensions over territory in the Balkans .
Austria-Hungary competed with Serbia and Russia for territory and influence in the region and they pulled the rest of the Great Powers into  the विरोध through  their various alliances and treaties .
Although the chain of events unleashed by the assassination triggered the war , the war 's origins go deeper , involving national politics , cultures , economics , and a complex web of  alliances और counterbalances  that had developed between the various European powers since 1870 .
Some of the most important long term or structural causes are : the growth of nationalism across Europe , unresolved territorial disputes , an intricate system of alliances , the perceived breakdown of the balance of power in Europe , convoluted and fragmented governance , the arms races of the previous decades , previous military planning , imperial and colonial rivalry  लिये माल , शक्ति और प्रतिष्ठा , और आर्थिक और सैन्य फंसने in उद्योग और व्यापार  – e.g. , the Pig War between Austria and Serbia .
Other causes that came into play during the diplomatic crisis that preceded the war included  misperceptions of intent ( e.g. , the जर्मनी विश्वास कि the  United Kingdom would remain neutral ) and delays and misunderstandings in diplomatic communications .
The  विभिन्न श्रेणी  of explanation for World War I correspond to different historians ' overall methods .
Most historians and popular commentators include causes from more than one  श्रेणी  of explanation to provide a rounded account of the causes of the war .
The deepest distinction among these accounts is between stories that see it as the inevitable and predictable  निष्कर्ष of निश्चित कारकों , और those कि describe  it as an arbitrary and unfortunate mistake .
In attributing causes for the war , historians and academics had  to सौदे साथ an unprecedented बाढ़  of memoirs and official documents , released as each country involved tried to avoid blame for starting the war .
Early releases of information by governments , particularly those released for use by the `` Commission  on the जिम्मेदारी  of the Authors of the War '' were shown to be incomplete and biased .
In  जोड कुछ दस्तावेज़ , विशेषकर राजनयिक  cables between Russia and France , were found to have been doctored .
Even in later decades however , when much more information had been released ,  इतिहासकारों इससे the वही  culture have been shown to come to differing conclusions on the causes of the war .
Johnson 's new  चार्ट of नेशनल  emblems , published c. 1868 .
The large flags  दिखाया in the किनारे  are the 37-star flag of the United States ( flown 1867-1877 ) , the Royal Standard of the United Kingdom , the Russian Imperial Standard , and the French tricolore with inset Imperial Eagle .
विभिन्न अन्य  flags flown by ships are shown .
The Flag of Cuba is labelled `` Cuban ( so  पुकारा ) ``  .
The Chinese dragon on the Flag of China was drawn  mistakenly as a पश्चिमी  dragon .
A national flag is a flag that  symbolizes  a country .
The flag is flown by the government , but usually can also be flown  by नागरिकों of the  country .
Both public and private  इमारतें ऐसे as स्कूलों  and courthouses may fly the national flag .
In some countries , the national flags are only flown  इससे non-military  buildings on certain flag days .
There are three distinct types of national flag for use on land , and three for use at sea , though many countries use identical designs for several (  और sometimes सब  ) of these types of flag .
The American Civil War ( ACW ) , also known as the War between the States or simply the Civil War ( see naming ) , was a civil war fought from 1861 to 1865 between the United States ( the `` Union '' or the `` North '' ) and  अनेक दक्षिणी स्लेव राज्य कि घोषित  their secession and formed the Confederate States of America ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ) .
The war had  इसके उत्पत्ति in the समस्या of  slavery , especially the extension of slavery into the western territories .
Foreign powers did not  intervene  .
After four years of bloody combat that left over 600,000 soldiers dead and destroyed much of the South 's infrastructure , the Confederacy collapsed , slavery was abolished , and the difficult Reconstruction process of restoring national unity and guaranteeing rights to the freed  स्लेव began  .
In the 1860 presidential election  , republicans , led by अब्राहम  Lincoln , opposed expanding slavery into United States ' territories .
Lincoln won , but before his inauguration on March 4 , 1861 , seven  cotton-based  slave states formed the Confederacy .
Outgoing Democratic President James Buchanan and the incoming  republicans  rejected secession as illegal .
Lincoln 's  inaugural पता घोषित  his administration would not initiate civil war .
Eight  बाकी स्लेव  states continued to reject calls for secession .
Confederate forces seized numerous federal  दुर्गों भीतर  territory claimed by the Confederacy .
A Peace Conference failed to find a compromise , and  दोनो  sides prepared for war .
The  confederates  assumed that European countries were so dependent on `` King Cotton `` that they would intervene ; none did and none recognized the new Confederate States of America .
Hostilities began on April 12 , 1861 , when Confederate forces fired upon  फोर्ट sumter , a  key fort held by Union troops in South Carolina .
Lincoln called for each state to   provide troops to retake the fort ; consequently , four more slave states joined the Confederacy , bringing their total to eleven .
The Union soon  नियंत्रित  the border states and established a naval blockade that crippled the southern economy .
The Eastern Theater was  inconclusive in 1861–62  .
The   autumn 1862 Confederate campaign into Maryland ( a Union state ) ended with Confederate retreat at the Battle of Antietam , dissuading British intervention .
lincoln  issued the Emancipation Proclamation , which made ending slavery a war goal .
To the west , by summer 1862 the Union  नष्ट the confederate नदी नेवी  , then much of their western armies , and the Union at Vicksburg split the Confederacy in two at the Mississippi River .
In 1863 , Robert E. Lee 's  confederate incursion उत्तर ended  at the Battle of Gettysburg .
Western successes led to Ulysses S. Grant command of  सब संघ सेना in  1864 .
In the Western Theater , William T. Sherman drove east to capture Atlanta and marched to the  समुद्र , destroying confederate अवसंरचना साथ the  way .
The Union marshaled the resources and manpower to attack the Confederacy from all  दिशानिर्देश , और could  afford to fight battles of attrition through the Overland Campaign towards Richmond , the Confederate capital .
The defending Confederate army failed , leading to Lee 's surrender to Grant  at appomattox  Court House on April 9 , 1865 .
The American Civil War  थी एक of  the earliest true industrial wars .
Railroads , the telegraph ,  steamships , और mass-produced हथियार  were employed extensively .
the mobilization  of civilian factories , mines , shipyards , banks , transportation and food supplies all foreshadowed World War I .
It remains the deadliest war in American history , resulting in the deaths of an  अनुमानित 750,000 सैनिको और an undetermined  number of civilian casualties .
Historian John Huddleston estimates the death toll at ten percent of all Northern males  20–45  years old , and 30 percent of all Southern white males aged 18–40 .
Norrie disease is a genetic disorder that primarily affects the eye  और लगभग सदा लीड  to blindness .
In addition to the congenital ocular symptoms , some patients suffer from a progressive hearing loss starting mostly in their 2nd decade of life , while another portion may  be मानसिक challenged  .
Patients with Norrie disease may develop  cataracts , leukocoria ( a कंडीशन  where the pupils appear white when light is shone on them ) , along with other developmental issues in the eye , such as shrinking of the globe and the wasting away of the iris .
Around 30–50 % of them will also have  developmental डेलाy/  mental retardation , psychotic-like features , incoordination of movements or behavioral abnormalities .
Most patients are  born साथ सामान्य सुनना  ; however , the onset of hearing loss is very common in early adolescence .
About 15 % of the patients are estimated to develop all the features of the  बीमारी  .
The disease affects almost only male  infants at जनम or जल्द  after birth , because the disease is inherited X-linked recessive .
Only in very rare cases , females have  महरूम diagnosed  with Norrie disease as well .
The exact incidence number is unknown ; only a few  सौ  cases have been reported so far .
It is a very rare disorder that is not associated with any specific ethnic or  जातिगत  groups .
A contract is an agreement having  a  lawful object entered into voluntarily by two or more parties , each of whom intends to create one or more legal obligations between them .
The elements of a contract are `` offer '' and `` acceptance '' by `` competent persons '' having legal capacity who  एक्सचेंज `` विचार  '' to create `` mutuality of obligation . ''
Proof of some or all of these elements   may be done in writing , though contracts may be made entirely orally or by conduct .
The remedy for breach  of अनुबंध  can be `` damages '' in the form of compensation of money or specific performance enforced through an injunction .
Both of these remedies award the party at loss the `` benefit of the bargain '' or expectation damages , which  हैं  greater than mere reliance damages , as in promissory estoppel .
The parties may be natural persons or juristic  व्यक्तियों .
A contract is a legally  enforceable  promise or undertaking that something will or will not occur .
The word  वादा can be प्रयुक्त as a विधिक पर्याय लिये अनुबंध ,  although care is required as a promise may not have the full standing of a contract , as when it is an agreement without consideration .
Contract law varies greatly from one jurisdiction to another , including differences in common law compared to civil law , the impact of received law , particularly from England in common law countries ,  और of विधि संहिताबद्ध in क्षेत्रीय विधान  .
Regarding Australian Contract Law for example , there are 40 relevant acts which impact on the interpretation of contract at the  राष्ट्रमंडल ( संघीय / नेशनल  ) level , and an additional 26 acts at the level of the state of NSW .
In addition there are 6 international instruments or conventions which are  लागू लिये अंतरराष्ट्रीय dealings  , such as the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods .
ASP.NET is a server-side Web application framework designed for Web development to  उपज डायनेमिक वेब पृष्ठों .
It was developed by Microsoft to allow programmers to build dynamic  वेब साइट , वेब अनुप्रयोग  and web services .
It was first released in January 2002 with version 1.0 of the .NET Framework , and is the  successor to  Microsoft 's Active Server Pages ( ASP ) technology .
ASP.NET is  निर्मित on the आम भाषा  Runtime ( CLR ) , allowing programmers to write ASP.NET code using any supported .NET language .
The  asp.net साबुन एक्सटेंशन  framework allows ASP.NET components to process SOAP messages .
Lysergic acid diethylamide , abbreviated LSD or LSD-25 , also known as lysergide ( INN ) and colloquially as acid , is a semisynthetic  साइकेडेलिक ड्रग of the ergoline परिवार , खूब ज्ञात लिये इसके मनोवैज्ञानिक प्रभाव  which can include altered thinking processes , closed and open eye visuals , synesthesia , an altered sense of time and spiritual experiences , as well as for its key role in 1960s counterculture .
It is used mainly as an entheogen ,  recreational  drug , and as an agent in psychedelic therapy .
LSD is non-addictive , is not known to  कारण  brain damage , and has extremely low toxicity relative to dose .
however , प्रतिकूल मनोरोग  reactions such as anxiety , paranoia , and delusions are possible .
LSD was first synthesized by  अल्बर्ट hofmann  in 1938 from ergotamine , a chemical derived by Arthur Stoll from ergot , a grain fungus that typically grows on rye .
The short form `` LSD '' comes from its early code  नाम lsd-25 , जिससे is an संक्षिप्त  for the German `` Lysergsäure-diethylamid '' followed by a sequential number .
LSD is sensitive to oxygen , ultraviolet light , and chlorine ,  विशेषकर  in solution , though its potency may last for years if it is stored away from light and moisture at low temperature .
In pure form it is a colorless , odorless ,  tasteless  solid .
LSD is typically delivered orally , usually on a substrate  ऐसे as absorbent blotter पेपर , a  sugar cube , or gelatin .
In its liquid form , it can also be administered by  intramuscular or intravenous  injection .
LSD is very potent , with  20–30  μg ( micrograms ) being the threshold dose .
New experiments with LSD started in 2009 for the first time in 40 years   .
Introduced by Sandoz Laboratories , with trade-name Delysid , as a drug with various psychiatric uses in 1947 , LSD quickly became a therapeutic agent that  appeared to दिखाएँ  great promise .
In the 1950s , officials at the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency ( CIA ) thought the drug might be applicable to mind control and  रासायनिक warfare ; the एजेंसी 's mkultra शोध  program propagated the drug among young servicemen and students .
The subsequent recreational use of the drug by youth culture in the Western world during the 1960s led to a political firestorm that resulted in its  निषेध  .
Currently , a number of  organizations—including the beckley न्यास , मानचित्र , heffter शोध संस्थान और the अल्बर्ट hofmann foundation—exist to निधि , प्रोत्साहित और निर्देशांक शोध into the औषधीय और आध्यात्मिक उपयोग of एलएसडी और सम्बन्धित psychedelics .
The United States Navy 's Sea , Air , Land Teams , commonly known as the Navy SEALs , are the U.S. Navy 's principal special operations force and a part of   the Naval Special Warfare Command and United States Special Operations Command .
`` मुहर '' is सदा  capitalized in reference to members of the Naval Special Warfare community .
The acronym is derived from their capacity  to  operate at sea , in the air , and on land .
SEALs are male members of the  संयुक्त राज्य  Navy .
An exchange program with the Coast Guard ,  जिससे ग्रैजुएट तीन coast guardsmen  as SEALs , was suspended in 2011 .
The CIA 's highly secretive Special Activities Division (  उदास ) और अधिक  specifically its elite Special Operations Group ( SOG ) recruits operators from the SEAL Teams .
Joint Navy SEALs and CIA operations go back to the famed MACV-SOG during the Vietnam  युद्ध  .
इस सहयोग स्टिल exists  today and is seen in the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan , and in the finding and killing of Osama bin Laden in Pakistan .
World population estimates from 1800 to 2100 , based on UN 2010 projections ( red ,  नारंगी  , green ) and US Census Bureau historical estimates ( black ) .
Actual recorded  जनसांख्यिकी  figures are in blue .
According to the highest estimate , the world   population may rise to 16 billion by 2100 ; according to the lowest estimate , it may decline to 6 billion .
The world population is the total number  of  living humans on Earth .
As of today , it is estimated  to क्रमांक अरब by the  United States Census Bureau ( USCB ) .
The USCB estimates that the  संसार जनसांख्यिकी  exceeded 7 billion on March 12 , 2012 .
According to a separate estimate by the United Nations Population Fund , it reached this milestone  on अक्तूबर 31 , 2011  .
The world population has experienced  निरन्तर विकास चूंकि the समाप्त  of the Great Famine and the Black Death in 1350 , when it stood at around 370 million .
The highest rates of growth – global population increases above 1.8 % per year –  यहूद देखी briefly दौरान  the 1950s , and for a longer period during the 1960s and 1970s .
The growth rate peaked at 2.2 % in 1963 , and had declined to 1.1 %  by  2011 .
Total annual births were highest in the late 1980s at about 138 million , and are now expected to remain essentially constant at their 2011 level  of 134  million , while deaths number 56 million per year , and are expected to increase to 80 million per year by 2040 .
Current projections show a continued increase in population in the  निकट भविष्य ( लकिन a  steady decline in the population growth rate ) , with the global population expected to reach between 7.5 and 10.5 billion by 2050 .
Various longer-term estimates predict further growth  , stagnation  , or even overall decline in the global population by 2150 .
Some analysts have questioned the sustainability of further world population growth , citing  the growing pressures on the पर्यावरण , वैश्विक  food supplies , and energy resources .
Memphis is a city in the southwestern corner of the U.S. state of Tennessee , and  the  county seat of Shelby County .
The city is located on the 4th Chickasaw  bluff , दक्षिण of the संगम  of the Wolf and Mississippi rivers .
Memphis had a population of  672,277  in 2011 making it the largest city in the state of Tennessee , the largest city on the Mississippi River , the third largest in the Southeastern United States , and the 20th largest in the United States .
The  वृहद मेम्फिस  metropolitan area , including adjacent counties in Mississippi and Arkansas , had a 2010 population of 1,316,100 .
This makes Memphis the second largest metropolitan area  in टेनेसी , surpassed तभी by  metropolitan Nashville , which has overtaken Memphis in recent years .
Memphis is the youngest of Tennessee  's प्रमुख  cities .
A  निवासी of मेम्फिस is referred  to as a Memphian , and the Memphis region is known , particularly to media outlets , as `` Memphis & The Mid-South `` .
The Cattenom Nuclear Power  संयंत्र  in France .
France produces around three quarters of its electricity by  नाभिकीय शक्ति  .
The  grafenrheinfeld  Nuclear Power Plant in Germany .
चांसलर एंजेला मार्केल 's गठबन्धन घोषित  on May 30 , 2011 , that Germany’s 17 nuclear power stations will be shut down by 2022 , in a policy reversal following Japan 's Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster .
Currently , 68  रिएक्टरों  are under construction in 15 countries .
Nuclear power stations  operate in तीस  countries .
In 2010 , before the  फुकुशिमा daiichi नाभिकीय विपत्ति , it थी reported  that an average of about 10 nuclear reactors were expected to become operational per year , although according to the World Nuclear Association , of the 17 civilian reactors planned to become operational between 2007 and 2009 , only five actually came on stream .
As of June 2011 , Germany  और  Switzerland are phasing-out nuclear power .
As of June 2011 , countries such as Australia , Austria , Denmark , Greece , Ireland , Italy , Latvia , Liechtenstein , Luxembourg , Malaysia   , Malta , New Zealand , Norway and Portugal remain opposed to nuclear power .
Skeletal muscles  होमो sapiens
This is a  तालिका of  muscles of the human anatomy .
There are approximately 642 skeletal muscles within the typical human , and  लगभग प्रत्येक मांसपेशी constitutes एक भाग  of a pair of identical bilateral muscles , found on both sides , resulting in approximately 320 pairs of muscles , as presented in this article .
Nevertheless , the exact number is difficult to define because different  स्त्रोत समूह मांसपेशियां differently  , e.g . regarding what is defined as different parts of a single muscle or as several muscles .
Examples range from  640  to 850 .
The muscles of the human body can be categorized into a number of groups which include muscles relating to the head and neck , muscles of the torso or trunk ,  मांसपेशियां of the अपर limbs  , and muscles of the lower limbs .
The  कार्रवाई refers to  the action of each muscle from the standard anatomical position .
In other  स्थितियाँ , अन्य क्रियाएँ  may be performed .
A reenactment of a battle at Fort  फोस्टर , 1837 ( at hillsborough  River State Park )
The Seminole Wars , also known as the Florida Wars  , यहूद तीन विरोध in फ्लोरिडा between the seminole  — the collective name given to the amalgamation of various groups of native Americans and Black people who settled in Florida in the early 18th century — and the United States Army .
The First  seminole युद्ध थी इससे  1814 to 1819 ( although sources differ ) , the Second Seminole War from 1835 to 1842 , and the Third Seminole War from 1855 to 1858 .
The first conflict with the Seminoles arose out of tensions relating to General Andrew Jackson 's attack and  विनाश of नीग्रो फोर्ट in फ्लोरिडा  in 1816 .
Jackson also attacked the Spanish at  pensacola  .
Ultimately , the Spanish Crown ceded   the colony to United States rule .
Orono is a town in Penobscot County , Maine  , संयुक्त राज्य  .
it थी पहला settled  in 1774 and named in honor of Chief Joseph Orono of the Penobscot Nation .
It is home to The University  of maine  .
The  जनसांख्यिकी  was 10,362 at the 2010 census .
View of  the  pyramid
Luxor Las Vegas is a  होटल और कसीनो  on the Las Vegas Strip in Paradise , Nevada .
The 30-story hotel , owned and operated  by  MGM Resorts International , has a casino with over 2,000 slot machines and 87 table games .
In the 2008 to 2009 renovation , it has a new , highly modernized ,  और समकालीन  design and contains a total of 4,400 rooms , including 442 suites , lining the interior walls of a pyramid style tower and within twin 22-story ziggurat towers that were built as later additions .
The hotel is named after the city of Luxor ( ancient Thebes )  in मिश्र  .
Luxor is the second largest hotel in Las  वेगास ( the largest होने  the MGM Grand ) and the eighth largest in the world .
As of 2010 , the Luxor has a 4 Key rating from the Green Key  eco-rating कार्यक्रम , जिससे evaluates ``  sustainable '' hotel operations .
A pilot experiment , also called a pilot study , is a  छोटी स्केल प्रारंभिक पढ़ाई conducted in अनुक्रम to evaluate  feasibility , time , cost , adverse events , and effect size ( statistical variability ) in an attempt to predict an appropriate sample size and improve upon the study design prior to performance of a full-scale research project .
Pilot  अध्ययन , इसलिए  , may not be appropriate for case studies .
The Los Angeles Fire Department ( LAFD ) is the agency that  provides आग सुरक्षा  and emergency medical services for the city of Los Angeles .
It may be unofficially  referred to as the  Los Angeles City Fire Department to distinguish it from the Los Angeles County Fire Department .
The acre is  a ईकाई of क्षेत्रफल  used in the imperial and U.S. customary systems .
An acre is about 40 % of a hectare –  थोड़ा छोटी than an  American football field .
The acre is no longer commonly used , although  a few notable अपवाद  include the United States , Australia , Burma and the United Kingdom ( as of 2010 , the acre is no longer officially used in the United Kingdom , though is still used in real estate descriptions ) .
It  is स्टिल  used , to some extent , in Canada .
The international symbol of the acre is  ac , और  is defined as 1/640 of a square mile .
The most  commonly प्रयुक्त  acre today is the international acre .
In the United  States  both the international acre and the slightly different US survey acre are in use .
The most common use of the  एकड़ is  to measure tracts of land .
One  अंतरराष्ट्रीय एकड़  is defined as 4046.8564224 square metres .
During the  मध्य  Ages , an acre was the amount of land that could be plowed in one day with a yoke of oxen .
Pawnee initially refers to a  देशी अमरीकी  people and its language:
Pawnee  लोगों
Pawnee  भाषा
Pawnee is  भी  the name of several places in the United States:
Pawnee ,  इलिनोइस
pawnee ,  Kansas
pawnee  City , Nebraska
pawnee  , Oklahoma
pawnee  , Texas
pawnee  National Grassland , Colorado
Pawnee Township (  बहुविकल्पी  )
Pawnee County (  बहुविकल्पी  )
pawnee may  also refer to:
पाइपर pa-25  Pawnee , agricultural aircraft
Hiller  vz-1 pawnee  , experimental aircraft
Pawnee , Indiana ( fictional city ) the fictional  सेटिंग of the एनबीसी टेलीविज़न कॉमेडी पार्क और  Recreation .
Broca 's  और wernicke  's Areas
Language processing refers to the way human beings use words to communicate ideas and  जज्बात , और कैसा ऐसे संचार हैं processed  and understood .
Thus it is how the brain creates and understands  भाषा  .
Most recent  theories consider कि  this process is carried out entirely by and inside the brain .
This is considered one of the most characteristic abilities of  the इंसान प्रजाति - शायद the सबसे characteristic  .
however बहुत छोटी is  known about it and there is huge scope for research on it .
Most of the knowledge acquired to date on the subject has come from patients who have suffered some type of significant head injury , whether external ( wounds , bullets ) or internal ( strokes , tumors ,  अपक्षयी  diseases ) .
अध्ययन have  shown that most of the language processing functions are carried out in the cerebral cortex .
The essential  फलन of  the cortical language areas is symbolic representation .
Even  हालांकि भाषा exists  in different forms , all of them are based on symbolic representation .
The  bugatti veyron eb 16.4 is a mid-engined ग्रैंड touring car , designed  and developed by the Volkswagen Group and manufactured in Molsheim , France by Bugatti Automobiles S.A.S .
The Super Sport version of the Veyron is the fastest street-legal production car in  the  world , with a top speed of .
The original version has  a  top speed of .
It was named Car of the Decade ( 2000–2009 ) by the BBC  टेलीविज़न  programme Top Gear .
The standard Veyron won Top Gears Best Car Driven All Year award in  2005 .
On 6 April 2013 ,  bugatti  set the record for the fastest roadster in the world with the Veyron Grand Sport Vitesse , reaching on average a top speed of .
the veyron 's मुख्य पंक्तियां थी hartmut warkuss , और the exterior थी designed by jozef kabaň of volkswagen , साथ much of the अभियान्त्रिकी कार्य होने conducted अंतर्गत the मार्गदर्शन of अभियान्त्रिकी मुख्य वुल्फगांग schreiber  .
A number of  खास विसंगतियाँ  have been produced .
In December 2010 , Bugatti began offering prospective buyers the ability to customize exterior and interiors colours  by using the veyron  16.4 Configurator application on the marque 's official website .
DVD is an optical disc storage format , invented and developed by Philips , Sony ,  तोशिबा , और पैनासोनिक  in 1995 .
DVDs offer higher storage capacity than compact discs while having the  वही आयाम  .
pre-recorded dvds हैं mass-produced  using molding machines that physically stamp data onto the DVD .
Such discs  हैं ज्ञात as dvD- rom , क्युकी  data can only be read and not written nor erased .
Blank recordable DVD discs ( DVD-R and DVD+R ) can be recorded once using a DVD recorder and then function  as a dvd-rom  . Rewritable DVDs ( DVD-RW , DVD+RW , and DVD-RAM ) can be recorded and erased multiple times .
DVDs are used in DVD-Video consumer digital video format and in DVD-Audio  उपभोक्ता  digital audio format , as well as for authoring AVCHD discs .
DVDs containing other types of  सूचना  may be referred to as DVD data discs .
What Chilli Wants is an American reality series on VH1 starring  chilli , one-third of  the Grammy Award -winning R & B trio TLC .
The show chronicles Chilli 's quest to find love with the help of Tionna T. Smalls , an  लेखक  and relationship coach .
The series premiered on  अप्रैल 11 , 2010  , and has since been renewed for a second season .
The second season premiered on Sunday ,  जनवरी  2 , 2011 .
Peter Gene Hernandez ( born October 8 , 1985 ) , known by his stage name Bruno Mars ,  is an  American singer-songwriter and record producer .
Raised in Honolulu , Hawaii , by a family of musicians , Mars began making music at a  यंग आयु और performed in विभिन्न  musical venues in his hometown throughout his childhood .
He  ग्रैजुएट इससे  high school and then moved to Los Angeles , California , to pursue a musical career .
Mars  उत्पादित  songs for other artists , joining production team The Smeezingtons .
Mars had an unsuccessful stint with Motown Records , but then signed  साथ  Atlantic in 2009 .
He became recognized as a solo artist after lending his vocals  और co-writing the hooks लिये the  songs `` Nothin ' on You `` by B.o.B , and `` Billionaire `` by Travie McCoy .
He also co-wrote the hits ``  सही गोलाकार `` by  Flo Rida featuring Ke $ ha , and `` Wavin ' Flag `` by K'naan .
In October 2010  , he  released his debut album , Doo-Wops & Hooligans .
Anchored by the worldwide number-one singles `` Just the Way You Are `` and `` Grenade `` , the album peaked at number  तीन on the बिलबोर्ड  200 .
Mars was nominated for seven Grammys at the 53rd Grammy Awards , winning Best  पुरूष पॉप गायन प्रदर्शन लिये  `` Just the Way You Are '' .
His second studio album , Unorthodox Jukebox , was released on December  11  , 2012 .
Mars ' music is noted for displaying a wide variety of styles and influences , and  contains तत्व of अनेक musical  genres .
He has worked with an  assortment  of artists from various genres .
As a child , he was highly influenced by artists such as Little Richard ,  एल्विस प्रेस्ली और माइकल जैक्सन और  would often impersonate these artists from a young age .
Mars also incorporates reggae - and Motown -inspired  ध्वनि into  his work .
Worldwide , Mars became the  best-selling डिजिटल  artist in 2011 .
He had  तीन  singles in the top ten , including first place with `` Just the Way You Are '' , which sold 12.5 million copies .
Mars won  बेहतरीन अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Male Solo Artist at the 2012 BRIT Awards .
Bruno Mars has sold 6 million albums  और  40 million singles worldwide as a singer .
Althought as  a song-writer , निर्माता  and singer his total single download sales surpass 100 million worldwide .
Bust of Zeus , Otricoli (  sala रोटोंडा  , Museo Pio-Clementino , Vatican ) .
Greek mythology is the body of myths and teachings that belong to the ancient Greeks , concerning their gods and heroes , the nature of the world , and the origins and  significance of उनके अपना cult  and ritual practices .
It was a part of the religion in  प्राचीन  Greece and is part of religion in modern Greece and around the world , known as Hellenismos .
Modern scholars refer to and study the myths in an   attempt to throw light on the religious and political institutions of Ancient Greece and its civilization , and to gain understanding of the nature of myth-making itself .
Greek mythology is explicitly embodied in a large collection of narratives , and  implicitly in यूनानी representational कला , ऐसे  as vase-paintings and votive gifts .
Greek myth attempts to explain the origins of the world , and details the lives and adventures of a wide variety of gods , goddesses  , नायक , heroines  , and mythological creatures .
These accounts initially were disseminated in an oral-poetic  परंपरा ; आज the यूनानी मिथकों  are known primarily from Greek literature .
The oldest known Greek literary sources ,  होमर 's एपिक कविताएं  Iliad and Odyssey , focus on events surrounding the Trojan War .
Two poems by Homer 's near contemporary Hesiod , the Theogony and the Works and Days , contain  खाते of the उत्पत्ति of the संसार , the उत्तराधिकार  of divine rulers , the succession of human ages , the origin of human woes , and the origin of sacrificial practices .
Myths are also preserved in the Homeric Hymns , in fragments of epic poems of the Epic Cycle , in lyric poems ,  in  the works of the tragedians of the fifth century BC , in writings of scholars and poets of the Hellenistic Age , and in texts from the time of the Roman Empire by writers such as Plutarch and Pausanias .
Archaeological findings provide a principal source of detail about Greek mythology , with gods and heroes featured prominently in the  सजावट  of many artifacts .
Geometric designs on pottery of the  आठवीं सदी  BC depict scenes from the Trojan cycle as well as the adventures of Heracles .
In  the succeeding  Archaic , Classical , and Hellenistic periods , Homeric and various other mythological scenes appear , supplementing the existing literary evidence .
Greek mythology has had an extensive influence on the culture , arts , and  साहित्य of पश्चिमी सभ्यता  and remains part of Western heritage and language .
Poets and artists from ancient times to the present have derived inspiration from Greek mythology  and have  discovered contemporary significance and relevance in the themes .
मुँह  & MacNeal in 1971
Mouth & MacNeal was a pop duo  from  the Netherlands .
They are best known for their million  selling रिकॉर्डिंग  of `` How Do You Do `` .
The Boise State Broncos football program represents Boise State University in college   football and compete in the Football Bowl Subdivision ( FBS ) of Division I as a member of the Mountain West Conference .
They are currently led by head coach Chris Petersen  और  play their home games at Bronco Stadium .
the फ़्रैंक ( चिह्न : fr . or  SFr . ; German : Franken , French and Romansh : franc , Italian : franco ; code : CHF ) is the currency and legal tender of Switzerland and Liechtenstein ; it is also legal tender in the Italian exclave Campione d'Italia .
Although not formally legal  टेंडर  in the German exclave Büsingen ( the sole legal currency is the euro ) , it is in wide daily use there .
The  स्विस नेशनल बैंको  issues banknotes and the federal mint Swissmint issues coins .
The Swiss franc is the only version of the franc still  जारी in यूरोपीय .
The smaller denomination , a hundredth of a franc , is a Rappen ( Rp . ) in German , centime ( c. ) in French , centesimo ( ct. ) in  इतालवी , और रैप ( rp  . ) in Romansh .
The ISO code of the currency used by banks and financial institutions is CHF , although `` Fr . '' is used by most businesses and advertisers ; some use SFr . ; the Latinate `` CH '' stands for  confoederatio helvetica  .
Given the different languages used in   Switzerland , Latin is used for language-neutral inscriptions on the coins .
Sir Charles Spencer `` Charlie '' Chaplin , ( 16  अप्रैल 188925  December 1977 ) was a British comic actor and filmmaker who rose to fame in the silent era .
Chaplin became a worldwide icon through his screen  persona `` the ट्रैम्प `` और is माना  one of the most important figures of the film industry .
His career spanned more than 75 years , from a child in  the विक्टोरियन era to बंद to उसके मौत  at the age of 88 , and encompassed both adulation and controversy .
Raised in London ,  चैपलिन 's बाल्यकाल  was defined by poverty and hardship .
He was sent to a workhouse twice before the age of nine ; his father was absent , and his mother was  वचनबद्ध  to a mental asylum .
Chaplin began performing from   a young age , touring music halls and later working as a stage actor and comedian .
At 19 he was signed to the prestigious Fred Karno  कम्पनी  , which took him to America .
Chaplin was scouted by the film industry ,  और बना उसके  first appearances in 1914 with Keystone Studios .
He soon developed  the  Tramp persona and formed a large fan base .
Chaplin directed his films from an early stage ,  and continued to hone  his craft as he moved to the Essanay , Mutual , and First National corporations .
By 1918 ,  he थी  one of the most famous men in the world .
In 1919 , Chaplin co-founded the distribution company United Artists , giving  उसे पूरा  control over his films .
His first  feature-length चित्र  was The Kid ( 1921 ) , followed by A Woman of Paris ( 1923 ) , The Gold Rush ( 1925 ) , and The Circus ( 1928 ) .
He  refused to  move to sound films in the 1930s , instead producing City Lights ( 1931 ) and Modern Times ( 1936 ) without dialogue .
Chaplin became  increasingly राजनैतिक  and his next film , The Great Dictator ( 1940 ) , satirised Adolf Hitler .
The 1940s  थी  a decade marked with controversy for Chaplin , and his popularity declined rapidly .
He was accused of communist sympathies  , जबकि उसके भागीदारी  in a paternity suit and marriages to much younger women were considered scandalous .
An FBI investigation  थी खोली  on Chaplin , and he was eventually forced to leave the United States and settle in Switzerland .
He abandoned the Tramp for his later films , which include Monsieur Verdoux ( 1947 ) , Limelight ( 1952 ) , A King in  नई यॉर्क ( 1957 ) , और a countess  From Hong Kong ( 1967 ) .
Chaplin wrote , directed ,  उत्पादित , संपादित ,  scored , and starred in most of his films .
He was a perfectionist , and his financial  स्वतंत्रता meant he प्रायः खर्च सालो  on the development and production of a picture .
His films are characterised by slapstick combined with pathos , and often feature the Tramp  struggling विरूद्ध adversity  .
Many  contain  social and political themes , as well as autobiographical elements .
In 1972 , as part of a renewed appreciation for his work , Chaplin received an Honorary   Academy Award for `` the incalculable effect he has had in making motion pictures the art form of this century '' .
He  continues to be आयोजित in ऊँची लिहाज़ , साथ  The Gold Rush , City Lights , Modern Times , and The Great Dictator often ranked among the greatest films of all time .
Planned Parenthood Federation of America ( PPFA ) , commonly shortened to Planned Parenthood , is the U.S.  संबद्ध of the अंतरराष्ट्रीय नियोजित parenthood संघ  ( IPPF ) and one of its larger members .
PPFA is a  non-profit संगठन  providing reproductive health and maternal and child health services .
The Planned Parenthood Action Fund , Inc. ( PPAF ) is a related organization which lobbies for pro-choice legislation , comprehensive sex education , and  अभिगम to सस्ती स्वास्थ्य परवाह in the संयुक्त राज्य  .
Planned Parenthood is the largest U.S.  प्रदाता of reproductive  health services , including cancer screening , HIV screening and counseling , contraception , and abortion .
Contraception accounts for 35 % of PPFA 's total services and abortions account for 3 % ; PPFA conducts roughly 300,000 abortions  प्रत्येक साल , among 3 लाख लोगों  served .
The organization has its roots in Brooklyn , New York ,  जहाँ मार्गरेट सैंगर खोली  the country 's first birth-control clinic .
Sanger founded the American Birth Control League in 1921 , which in 1942 became  भाग of the नियोजित parenthood  Federation of America .
Since then , Planned Parenthood has grown to have over 820 clinic locations in the  u.S. , साथ a कुल बजट of us $ 1 अरब  .
PPFA provides an array of services to over three million people in the United States , and supports services for over one million  क्लाइंट बाहर the संयुक्त राज्य .
Mens rea is Latin for ``  अपराधी दिमाग  '' .
In criminal law , it is viewed as one of the  जरुरी तत्व of  some crimes .
The standard common law test of criminal  देयता is प्रायः expressed in the लैटिन phrase , actus गैर facit reum nisi  mens sit rea , which means `` the act is not culpable unless the mind is guilty '' .
Thus , in jurisdictions with due process , there must be an actus reus , or `` guilty act , '' accompanied by some level of mens rea to constitute the crime with which the defendant is charged ( see the technical  आवश्यकता of  concurrence ) .
As a general rule , criminal liability does not  संलग्न to a व्यक्ति जो acted साथ the अनुपस्थिति of  mental fault .
The exception is  सख्त  liability crimes .
In civil law , it is usually not necessary to prove a subjective mental  तत्व to स्थापित देयता  for breach of contract or tort , for example .
However , if a tort is intentionally committed or a contract is intentionally breached , such intent may increase the scope of  देयता  as well as the measure of damages payable to the plaintiff .
Therefore , mens rea refers to the mental element of the offence  कि accompanies the  actus reus .
In some jurisdictions , the terms mens rea and actus reus have  महरूम replaced by वैकल्पिक शब्दावली  .
In Australia , for example , the elements of the federal offences are now designated as `` fault elements '' or `` mental elements '' ( mens rea ) and `` physical elements '' or  `` बाह्य तत्व ''  ( actus reus ) .
This terminology  थी अपनाया  to replace the obscurity of the Latin terms with simple and accurate phrasing .
Ulysses S. Grant ( born Hiram Ulysses Grant ; April 27 , 1822 – July 23 , 1885 ) was the 18th President of the United States ( 1869–1877 ) following his highly  successful role as a war general in  the second half of the Civil War .
Under Grant , the Union Army defeated the Confederate military ;  having effectively ended  the war and secession with the surrender of Robert E. Lee 's army at Appomattox .
As president he led the Radical Republicans in their effort to eliminate all vestiges of  confederate  nationalism and slavery .
Upset over uncontrolled violence in the South and having  desired  to protect African American citizenship , President Grant effectively destroyed the Ku Klux Klan in 1871 .
Grant was  the पहला अध्यक्ष  to establish Civil Service reform having created a two-year federally funded Civil Service Commission in 1871 .
In terms  of विदेशी नीति ,  Grant revealed an `` unexpected capacity for deliberation and consultation '' that promoted the national interest .
His reputation was marred by his repeated defense of corrupt appointees , and by America 's first industrial age  आर्थिक अवसाद ( पुकारा  the `` Panic of 1873 `` ) that dominated his second term .
Although his Republican Party split in 1872 with reformers  denouncing उसे  , Grant was easily reelected .
By 1875 the conservative white Southern opposition regained control of every state in the South and as  he बाएँ the श्वेत हाउस in  March 1877 his policies were being undone .
A career soldier  , he ग्रैजुएट  from the United States Military Academy at West Point and served in the Mexican–American War .
जब the  Civil War began in 1861 , Grant trained Union volunteer regiments in Illinois .
In 1862 , as a general he fought a series of battles and was promoted to major  सामान्य बाद forcing  the surrender of a large Confederate army and gaining control of Kentucky and most of Tennessee .
He then led Union forces  to विजय बाद आरंभिक setbacks  in the Battle of Shiloh , earning a reputation as an aggressive commander .
In July  1863 , बाद a long  , complex campaign , Grant defeated five uncoordinated Confederate armies ( capturing one of them ) and seized Vicksburg .
This famous victory gave the Union full control of the  मिसिसिपी नदी , विभाजित बंद the  western Confederacy , and opened the way for more Union triumphs .
After another win at the Battle of Chattanooga in late 1863 , President Abraham Lincoln made him  लेफ्टिनेंट  general and commander of all of the Union Armies .
As commanding general of the army , Grant confronted Robert E. Lee in a series of very bloody battles in 1864 known as the Overland  अभियान कि ended साथ  the bottling up of Lee at Petersburg , outside the Confederate capital of Richmond .
During the siege , Grant coordinated a series of devastating campaigns launched by William  tecumseh शरमन  , Philip Sheridan , and George Thomas .
Finally breaking through Lee 's trenches , the  संघ फौज  captured Richmond in April 1865 .
Lee surrendered  उसके depleted शक्तियां  to Grant at Appomattox as the Confederacy collapsed .
Although pro-Confederate historians attacked Grant as a  निष्ठुर कसाई जो जीती by brute  force , most historians have hailed his military genius .
Grant 's two  लगातार शर्तें as अध्यक्ष stabilized  the nation after the American Civil War and during the turbulent Reconstruction period that followed .
As president , he enforced Reconstruction by  enforcing सिविल अधिकारों कानून और लड़  Ku Klux Klan violence .
Grant won passage of the Fifteenth Amendment ; giving constitutional  सुरक्षा लिये african-american  voting rights .
He used the army to build the Republican Party in  the दक्षिण , आधारित  on black voters , Northern newcomers ( `` Carpetbaggers `` ) and native white supporters ( `` Scalawags . '' )
As a result ,  अफ़्रीकी अमेरिकी यहूद represented in the u.S. कॉंग्रेस  for the first time in American history in 1870 .
reformers praised ग्रान्ट 's भारतीय सलाम नीति by having टूटा the deadlock on भारतीय appropriations in कॉंग्रेस , the सृष्टि of the फलक of भारतीय commissioners to मेक सुधार सुझाव , और उसके enlistment of quaker protestants जो नियंत्रित मिड पश्चिमी भारतीय एजेंसियों , कि effectively curbed congressional  patronage .
Grant remained determined in keeping  इंडियंस इससे होने exterminated इससे श्वेत  settler encroachment or by the U.S. military .
Grant 's reputation as president by 1875 was at an all-time high for his previous veto of the Inflation Bill , the passage of the Resumption of Specie Act , and Secretary  bristow 's कामयाब छापे कि shut bas  the Whiskey Ring .
Grant 's foreign policy , led by Secretary of State Hamilton Fish , implemented International Arbitration , settled the  अलबामा दावा साथ ब्रिटेन और avoided युद्ध साथ  Spain over the Virginius Affair .
A jukebox  is a partially स्वचालित  music-playing device , usually a coin-operated machine , that will play a patron 's selection from self-contained media .
The classic jukebox has  बटन साथ अक्षर और संख्याएँ on उन्हें कि  , when entered in combination , are used to play a specific selection .
A drug test is a technical analysis of a biological specimen – for example urine , hair , blood , sweat , or oral fluid / saliva – to determine the presence or absence of  निर्दिष्ट जनक दवाएँ or उनके  metabolites .
Major uses of drug testing are to detect the presence of performance enhancing steroids in sport or for drugs prohibited by laws , such as cannabis , cocaine   and heroin .
A `` 10-panel  मूत्र स्क्रीन  '' consists of the following:
amphetamines  ( including Methamphetamine )
barbiturates
benzodiazepines
cannabinoids (  THC )
कोका
methadone
methaqualone
Opiates ( Codeine , Morphine , Heroin ,  oxycodone , hydrocodone  , etc . )
phencyclidine  ( PCP )
propoxyphene
Saturn V rocket , used  लिये the अमरीकी  manned lunar landing missions
Space exploration is the discovery and  खोजी of  outer space by means of space technology .
Physical exploration of space is   conducted both by human spaceflights and by robotic spacecraft .
While the observation of objects in space , known as astronomy , predates reliable recorded  इतिहास , it थी the विकास of  large and relatively efficient rockets during the early 20th century that allowed physical space exploration to become a reality .
Common rationales for exploring space include advancing scientific research , uniting different nations , ensuring the future survival of humanity and developing military and  रणनीतिक  advantages against other countries .
Various criticisms of space exploration are  sometimes बना  .
Space  खोजी रै प्रायः महरूम  used as a proxy competition for geopolitical rivalries such as the Cold War .
The early era of space exploration was driven by a `` Space Race `` between the Soviet Union and the United States , the launch of the first man-made object to orbit the Earth , the USSR 's Sputnik 1 , on 4 October 1957 , and the first Moon landing by the American Apollo 11 craft on 20 July  1969 हैं प्रायः लिया as the सीमाएँ लिये  this initial period .
The Soviet space program achieved many of the first  माइलस्टोन  , including the first living being in orbit in 1957 , the first human spaceflight ( Yuri Gagarin aboard Vostok 1 ) in 1961 , the first spacewalk ( by Aleksei Leonov ) on 18 March 1965 , the first automatic landing on another celestial body in 1966 , and the launch of the first space station ( Salyut 1 ) in 1971 .
After the first 20 years  of खोजी , फ़ोकस shifted इससे one-off फ़्लाइट  to renewable hardware , such as the Space Shuttle program , and from competition to cooperation as with the International Space Station ( ISS ) .
With the substantial completion of the ISS following STS-133 in March 2011 , plans for space  खोजी by the यूएसए remain in  flux .
Constellation , a Bush Administration program for a return to the Moon by 2020 was judged inadequately funded   and unrealistic by an expert review panel reporting in 2009 .
The Obama Administration proposed a revision of Constellation in 2010 to focus on the development of the capability for crewed missions beyond low earth orbit ( LEO ) , envisioning extending the operation of the ISS beyond 2020 , transferring the development of launch vehicles for human crews from NASA to the  निजी सेक्टर , और विकासशील  technology to enable missions to beyond LEO , such as Earth/Moon L1 , the Moon , Earth/Sun L2 , near-earth asteroids , and Phobos or Mars orbit .
As of March 2011 , the US Senate and House of Representatives are still working towards a compromise NASA funding bill , which will probably terminate Constellation and fund development of a heavy lift  लॉन्च गाडी ( hllv  ) .
In the  2000s , the लोगों  's Republic of China initiated a successful manned spaceflight program , while the European Union , Japan , and India have also planned future manned space missions .
China , Russia , Japan , and India have advocated manned missions to the Moon during the 21st century , while the European Union  रै advocated मानवयुक्त मिशन  to both the Moon and Mars during the 21st century .
From the  1990s  onwards , private interests began promoting space tourism and then private space exploration of the Moon ( see Google Lunar X Prize ) .
जॉन calvin  Coolidge , Jr. ( July 4 , 1872January 5 , 1933 ) was the 30th President of the United States ( 1923–1929 ) .
A Republican lawyer from  वर्मांट , कूलिज worked उसके रास्ता up the सीढ़ियाँ  of Massachusetts state politics , eventually becoming governor of that state .
His conduct during the Boston Police Strike of 1919 thrust him  into the नेशनल स्पॉटलाइट और दिया उसे  a reputation as a man of decisive action .
Soon after , he was elected as the 29th  वाइस अध्यक्ष in  1920 and succeeded to the Presidency upon the sudden death of Warren G. Harding in 1923 .
Elected in his own right in 1924 , he gained a reputation as a  small-government रूढ़िवादी  , and also as a man who said very little .
Coolidge  लौटी पब्लिक विश्वास  in the White House after the scandals of his predecessor 's administration , and left office with considerable popularity .
As a Coolidge biographer put it , `` He  समाविष्ट the स्पिरिट और  hopes of the middle class , could interpret their longings and express their opinions .
कि he किया represent  the genius of the average is the most convincing proof of his strength . ''
Some later  criticized  Coolidge as part of a general criticism of laissez-faire government .
His reputation underwent a renaissance during the Ronald Reagan Administration , but the ultimate assessment of his presidency is still divided between those who approve of his reduction of the size of government programs and those who believe the federal government  चाहिए be अधिक शामिल in regulating और controlling  the economy .
Espresso is a concentrated  पेय brewed by forcing a छोटी  amount of nearly boiling water under pressure through finely ground coffee beans .
Espresso often has a thicker consistency than coffee brewed by other methods , a higher  विशेषज्ञता of निलंबित और dissolved solids  , and crema ( meaning cream , but being a reference to the foam with a creamy texture that forms as a result of the pressure ) .
As  a  result of the pressurized brewing process the flavors and chemicals in a typical cup of espresso are very concentrated .
Espresso is the base for other drinks , such as a latte , cappuccino , macchiato , mocha , or americano  .
Espresso has more caffeine per unit volume than most beverages , but the usual serving size is smaller—a typical 60 mL ( 2 US fluid ounce ) of espresso has  80 to 150 mg of caffeine ,  little less than the 95 to 200 mg of a standard 240 mL ( 8 US fluid ounces ) cup of drip-brewed coffee .
Brian Keith Kelly (  born  October 25 , 1961 ) is an American football coach and former player .
He is currently the head football coach  लिये the notre dame लड़  Irish , a position he has held since December 2009 .
Kelly was  previously सिर कोच at ग्रैंड घाटी  State University ( 1991–2003 ) , Central Michigan University ( 2004–2006 ) , and University of Cincinnati ( 2006–2009 ) .
A contract is an  अनुबंध having a lawful ऑब्जेक्ट डाला into  voluntarily by two or more parties , each of whom intends to create one or more legal obligations between them .
The elements of a contract are `` offer '' and `` acceptance '' by `` competent persons '' having legal capacity who  एक्सचेंज `` विचार '' to बनाएँ  `` mutuality of obligation . ''
Proof of some or all of these elements may be done in writing , though contracts may be made entirely orally or  by  conduct .
The remedy for breach of contract can be `` damages   '' in the form of compensation of money or specific performance enforced through an injunction .
Both of these remedies award the party at loss the `` benefit of the bargain ''  or अपेक्षा क्षतिपूर्ति , जिससे हैं वृहद  than mere reliance damages , as in promissory estoppel .
The parties may be  प्राकृतिक व्यक्तियों  or juristic persons .
A contract is a  legally enforceable  promise or undertaking that something will or will not occur .
The word promise can be used as a legal synonym for contract , although care is required as a promise may not have the full standing of a contract , as when  it  is an agreement without consideration .
Contract law varies greatly from one jurisdiction to another , including differences in common law compared to civil law , the impact of received law , particularly from  इंग्लैण्ड in आम विधि देशों , और of विधि  codified in regional legislation .
Regarding Australian Contract Law for example , there are 40 relevant acts which impact on the interpretation of contract at the Commonwealth ( Federal / national )  स्तर , और an अतिरिक्त  26 acts at the level of the state of NSW .
In addition there are 6 international instruments or conventions which are applicable  for international  dealings , such as the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods .
sidney पैट्रिक crosby , ons  ( born August 7 , 1987 ) is a Canadian professional ice hockey player who is captain of the Pittsburgh Penguins of the National Hockey League ( NHL ) .
Crosby was drafted first overall by the Penguins out of the Quebec Major Junior  हॉकी  League ( QMJHL ) .
During his two-year major junior  करियर साथ the rimouski océanic  , he earned back-to-back CHL Player of the Year awards and led his club to the 2005 Memorial Cup final .
Nicknamed `` The Next One `` , he was one of the most highly regarded draft picks in hockey history , leading many to refer to the 2005 Draft Lottery as the `` Sidney  crosby sweepstakes  '' .
In his first NHL season , Crosby finished sixth in  लीग स्कोरिंग  with 102 points ( 39 goals , 63 assists ) and was a runner-up for the Calder Memorial Trophy ( won by Alexander Ovechkin ) .
By his second season , he led the NHL with 120 points ( 36 goals , 84 assists ) to  कैप्चर the आर्ट रॉस ट्रॉफी ,  becoming the youngest player and the only teenager to win a scoring title in any major North American sports league .
That same season , Crosby also won the Hart Memorial Trophy as the Professional Hockey Writers  संघ 's चुनाव लिये सबसे मूल्यवान खिलाड़ी और the लेस्टर B.  Pearson Award as the NHL Players Association 's choice for most outstanding player , becoming the seventh player in NHL history to earn all three awards in one year .
crosby प्रारंभ the 2007–08 ऋतु साथ the टोली 's कप्तानी और subsequently led उन्हें to the 2008 स्टेनली कप फाइनल , जहाँ वे यहूद पराजित by the डेट्रॉयट रेड विंग्स in छह खेल  .
The Penguins returned to the Finals against Detroit the following year and won in seven games ; Crosby  became  the youngest captain in NHL history to win the Stanley Cup .
In the 2009–10 season , Crosby scored a career-high 51 goals , tying  उसे साथ स्टीवन stamkos लिये the प्रक्षेपास्त्र रिचर्ड ट्रॉफी as the league-leader  ; with 58 assists , he totaled 109 points , second in the NHL .
During  the  off-season , Crosby received the Mark Messier Leadership Award .
In 2010–11  , Crosby  sustained a concussion as a result of hits to the head in back-to-back games .
the  injury left him sidelined for ten and a half months .
However , after playing eight games in the 2011–12 season , Crosby 's concussion-like symptoms returned in December  2011  , and he did not return until mid-March 2012 .
Internationally , Crosby has represented Canada in numerous tournaments for the  देश 's जूनियर और मेन  's teams .
After competing in the 2003 U-18 Junior World Cup , he represented Canada   in back-to-back IIHF World U20 Championships , winning silver in 2004 and gold in 2005 .
At the 2006 IIHF World Championship , he led the  टूर्नामेंट in स्कोरिंग , जबकि  also earning Top Forward and All-Star Team honours .
चार सालो बाद  , Crosby was named to Team Canada for the 2010 Winter Olympics in Vancouver .
Playing the United States in the gold medal game , he scored  the  game-winning goal in overtime .
A United States cent ,  भी ज्ञात  as a penny .
`` My two  सेंट '' ( 2¢  ) and its longer version `` put my two cents in '' is an United States ( US ) idiomatic expression , taken from the original English idiom expression : to put in `` my two pennies worth '' or `` my tuppence worth . ''
It is used to preface the tentative stating of one’s  राय  .
By deprecating the opinion to follow – suggesting its value  is  only two cents , a very small amount – the user of the phrase hopes to lessen the impact of a possibly statement , showing politeness and humility .
However , it  is भी sometimes  used with irony when expressing a strongly felt opinion .
The  phrase is भी  used out of habit to preface uncontentious opinions .
For  example:
The Chinese  Civil War  was a civil war in China fought between forces loyal to the government of the Republic of China led by the Kuomintang ( KMT ) and forces of the Communist Party of China ( CPC ) .
The war began in April 1927 , amidst the Northern Expedition , and essentially ended when major active  लड़ाइयों  ceased in 1950 .
The conflict eventually resulted in two de facto states , the Republic of China ( ROC ) in Taiwan and the People 's Republic of China ( PRC ) in mainland China  , both  claiming to be the legitimate government of China .
The war represented an  वैचारिक विभाजित ( बाएँ  vs . Right ) between the Communist CPC , and the KMT 's brand of Nationalism .
The civil war continued intermittently until late 1937 , when the two parties formed a  दूसरी संयुक्त सामने to काउंटर a जापानी  invasion .
China 's full-scale civil  युद्ध  resumed in 1946 , a year after the end of hostilities with Japan .
After four more years , 1950 saw the   cessation of major military hostilities—with the newly founded People 's Republic of China controlling mainland China ( including Hainan ) , and the Republic of China 's jurisdiction being restricted to Taiwan , Penghu , Quemoy , Matsu and several outlying islands .
the kuomintang शिकस्त  is attributed to several factors : Corruption - Chiang wrote in his diary on June 1948 that the KMT had failed , not because of external enemies but because of rot from within .
Strong initial support from the U.S.  diminished  , and then , stopped .
( Partly because of KMT corruption and anti-democratic regime , and partly because of the uncertain U.S. foreign policy towards Communism between 1945 and 1950 ) ;  कम्युनिस्ट जमीन सुधार नीति promised ग़रीब peasants  farmland from their landlords .
इस ensured  PLA popular support .
After the surrender of Japan at the end of  संसार युद्ध ii , सोवियत शक्तियां turned over उनके captured जापानी  weapons to the CPC and allowed the CPC to take control of territory in Manchuria .
To this  दिन , no armistice  or peace treaty has ever been signed , and it is debated as to the whether the Civil War has legally ended .
Cross-Strait relations have been hindered by military threats and political and economic pressure , particularly over Taiwan 's political status , with both governments  officially adhering to a `` one-china  policy . ''
The PRC still actively claims Taiwan as  भाग of इसके territory और continues to threaten  the ROC with a military invasion if the ROC officially declares independence by changing its name to and gaining international recognition as the Republic of Taiwan .
The ROC mutually claims  मेनलैंड चीन , और  they both continue the fight over diplomatic recognition .
Today , the war as such occurs on the political and economic fronts in the form of cross-Strait relations ; however , the two separate de  facto राज्य have बंद आर्थिक ties .
The  एक सौ बारहवीं  United States Congress was the meeting of the legislative branch of the United States federal government , from January 3 , 2011 until January 3 , 2013 .
It convened in Washington , D.C. on January 3 , 2011 , and ended on January 3 , 2013 , 17 days  पहले the समाप्त of the अध्यक्षीय पद to  which Barack Obama was elected in 2008 .
Senators elected to regular terms in 2006 completed  those शर्तें  in this Congress .
This Congress included the last House of  प्रतिनिधि  elected from congressional districts that were apportioned based on the 2000 census .
In the 2010  मध्यावधि चुनावों , the रिपब्लिकन  Party won the majority in the House of Representatives .
While the Democrats kept their Senate  बहुमत , it थी घटाया इससे the  previous Congress .
This was the first Congress in which the House and Senate  यहूद नियंत्रित by अलग  parties since the 107th Congress ( 2001–2003 ) , and the first Congress to begin that way since the 99th Congress ( 1985–1987 ) .
In this Congress , the House of Representatives had the largest number of Republican  सदस्यों , 242 , चूंकि the 80th  Congress ( 1947–1949 ) .
It was also the first Congress since 1947 in which no member of the Kennedy family served , as well as the most  नीतियां polarized कॉंग्रेस चूंकि  Reconstruction , with record low approval ratings .
माल  in the United States is commonly measured in terms of net worth , which is the sum of all assets , including home equity , minus all liabilities .
The total net worth of US households and nonprofit organizations 1945–2009 , unadjusted  लिये महंगाई or जनसांख्यिकी बदलें  .
For example , a household in  कब्ज़ा  of an $ 800,000 house , $ 5,000 in mutual funds , $ 30,000 in cars , $ 20,000 worth of stock in their own company , and a $ 45,000 IRA would have assets totaling $ 900,000 .
assuming कि इस household  would have a $ 250,000 mortgage , $ 40,000 in car loans , and $ 10,000 in credit card debt , its debts would total $ 300,000 .
Subtracting the debts from the worth of this  household 's एसेट  ( 900,000 - $ 300,000 = $ 600,000 ) , this household would have a net worth of $ 600,000 .
Net worth  can vary साथ  fluctuations in value of the underlying assets .
The wealth —more specifically ,  the मध्य जाल worth—of households in the संयुक्त राज्य is varied साथ संबंध  to race , education , geographic location and gender .
As one would  expect , households साथ वृहद आय विशेषता  the highest net worths , though high income can not be taken as an always accurate indicator of net worth .
Overall the number of wealthier households is on the rise , with baby boomers  hitting the  highs of their careers .
In  जोड , माल  is unevenly distributed , with the wealthiest 25 % of US households owning 87 % of the wealth in the United States , which was $ 54.2 trillion in 2009 .
Including human capital such as skills , the United  राष्ट्र अनुमानित  the total wealth of the United States in 2008 to be $ 118 trillion .
This article deals with Selective Dorsal Rhizotomy ( SDR ) rather than the rhizotomy procedures for pain relief ; for those procedures , which have begun to take the name `` rhizotomy '' in certain  उदाहरण , देखिए facet rhizotomy और समान .
A rhizotomy ( ) is a term chiefly  referring  to a neurosurgical procedure that selectively destroys problematic nerve roots in the spinal cord , most often to relieve the symptoms of neuromuscular conditions such as spastic diplegia and other forms of spastic cerebral palsy .
The selective dorsal rhizotomy ( SDR ) for spastic cerebral palsy has been the main use of  rhizotomy लिये neurosurgeons specialising  in spastic CP since the 1980s ; in this surgery , the spasticity-causing nerves are isolated and then targeted and destroyed .
The sensory nerve roots , where spasticity is  स्तिथ , हैं पहला अलग इससे the मोटर ones , और the तंत्रिका  fibres to be cut are then identified via electromyographic stimulation .
the ones producing  spasticity are then selectively lesioned with tiny electrical pulses .
In spasticity , rhizotomy precisely targets and destroys the damaged nerves that don’t  प्राप्त गामा अमीनो butyric एसिड  , which is the core problem for people with spastic cerebral palsy .
These over-firing , non-GABA-absorbing nerves generate unusual electrical activity during the EMG testing phase in SDR and are thus considered to be the source of the patient 's hypertonia ; they are eliminated with the  विद्युत pulses एकबार पहचाना , जबकि the बाकी nerves और तंत्रिका रूट carrying the सही  messages remain fully intact and untouched .
This means that the spasticity is permanently dissolved , and that this is done without  affecting बेचैन प्रणाली संवेदनशीलता or फलन in अन्य क्षेत्रों , क्युकी  the only nerves destroyed are the over-firing ones responsible for the muscle tightness .
The terms rhizotomy and neurotomy are also increasingly  बनने interchangeable in the  treatment of chronic back pain from degenerative disc disease .
This is a procedure called a facet rhizotomy and is not a surgical procedure but is instead  किया on an outpatient आधार using a सरल जांच to  apply radiofrequency waves to the impinged pain-causing nerve root lying between the facet joint and the vertebral body .
Such radio frequency nerve lesioning  परिणाम in पाँच to आठ or अधिक महीने of पीड़ा राहत पहले the तंत्रिका regenerates  and another round of the procedure needs to be performed .
A facet rhizotomy is just one of many different forms of radiofrequency ablation , and its use of the `` rhizotomy '' name should not be confused  साथ the sdr कार्यविधि .
migrant  workers in California , 1935
The term migrant worker has different official meanings and  connotations in अलग  parts of the world .
The United Nations ' definition is broad , including any people  working बाहर of उनके  home country .
The term can also be used to describe someone who migrates within  a देश , संभवतः  their own , in order to pursue work such as seasonal work .
Photograph of Lil  वेन साथ  teardrop tattoos below his eyes .
The  teardrop टैटू or आंसू  tattoo is a symbolic tattoo that is placed underneath the eye .
It has no fixed meaning  लकिन लगभग सब  meanings ( see below ) have some connection to prison .
u.S.  Route 75 is a north–south U.S. Highway .
The highway 's  उत्तरी टर्मिनस is in kittson काउंटी , मिनेसोटा  , at the Canadian border , where it once continued as Manitoba Highway 75 on the other side of the now-closed border crossing .
Its southern terminus is at Interstate 30 and Interstate 45 in Dallas , Texas , where it is known as  उत्तर सेंट्रल  Expressway .
U.S. 75 was a  border-to-border रूट , इससे कनाडा to the  Gulf of Mexico at Galveston , Texas .
However , the  संपूर्ण खण्ड दक्षिण of डलास , टेक्सास  has been decommissioned in favor of Interstate 45 , a cutoff section of town-to-town surface road having become State Highway 75 .
Lower Ninth  वार्ड is a पड़ोस  of the city of New Orleans .
As the  नाम implies  , it is part of the Ninth Ward of New Orleans .
The Lower Ninth Ward is often thought of as the entire area within New Orleans downriver of the Industrial Canal ; however , the City  नियोजन आयोग divides इस क्षेत्रफल into the निम्नतर  Ninth Ward ( 2 ) and Holy Cross ( 3 ) neighborhoods .
The term `` Lower '' refers to its location farther towards the mouth of the Mississippi River , `` down '' or `` below '' the rest of  the नगर in लोकल भौगोलिक शब्दावली  .
But the 9th Ward , like all Wards in New Orleans   , is a voting district .
The 9th Ward was added as  a मतदान  district in 1852 .
The `` lower '' 9th  वार्ड is रचित of वार्ड  9 Districts 1 , 2 , 4 , and 7 which make up the Holy Cross Area and Ward 9 Districts 3 , 5 , 6 , and 8 .
Higher voting district numbers in the 9th Ward ( 8-27 ) are on the upriver side of the Industrial Canal   .
The area came to national attention for its  devastation in the aftermath of  Hurricane Katrina in 2005 .
Hubble views of Copernicus crater ( inset ) , which is  परिचय  58 miles ( 93 km ) wide
Red and orange tinted Moon , as  देखी इससे धरती  during a lunar eclipse , where the Earth comes between the Moon and Sun
The Moon is the only natural satellite of the Earth , and the fifth largest  उपग्रह in  the Solar System .
It is the largest natural satellite of a planet in the Solar System relative to the size of its primary ,  having 27  % the diameter and 60 % the density of Earth , resulting in its mass .
The Moon is the second densest  उपग्रह  after Io , a satellite of Jupiter .
The Moon is in synchronous rotation with Earth , always showing the same face with its near side marked by dark volcanic maria that fill between the bright ancient crustal highlands and  the prominent  impact craters .
It is the brightest object in the sky after the Sun , although its surface is actually very dark  , साथ a reflectance समान  to that of coal .
Its prominence in the sky and its regular cycle of  phases have  , since ancient times , made the Moon an important cultural influence on language , calendars , art and mythology .
The Moon 's gravitational influence produces the ocean tides and  the  minute lengthening of the day .
The Moon 's current orbital distance , about thirty times the diameter of the Earth , causes it to appear almost the same size in the sky as the  सूर्य , allowing it to कवर the  Sun nearly precisely in total solar eclipses .
इस मिलान of  apparent visual size is a coincidence .
The Moon 's linear distance from the Earth is currently increasing at a rate of 3.82±0.07cm  प्रति साल , लकिन इस रेट is नहीं  constant .
the चंद्रमा is विचार  to have formed nearly 4.5 billion years ago , not long after the Earth .
Although there  have  been several hypotheses for its origin in the past , the current most widely accepted explanation is that the Moon formed from the debris left over after a giant impact between Earth and a Mars -sized body .
The Moon is the only celestial body other than  धरती on जिससे इंसानो  have set foot .
The Soviet Union 's Luna programme was the first to reach the Moon with unmanned spacecraft in 1959 ; the United States ' NASA Apollo program achieved the only manned missions to date , beginning with the first manned lunar orbiting mission by Apollo 8 in 1968 , and six manned lunar  अवतरण between 1969 और 1972  , with the first being Apollo 11 .
These missions returned over 380 kg of lunar rocks , which have been used to  develop a geological समझना  of the Moon 's origins , the formation of its internal structure , and its subsequent history .
After the Apollo 17 mission in 1972 , the Moon has been visited only by unmanned spacecraft , notably by the final  सोवियत lunokhod  rover .
चूंकि 2004 , जापानी , चीन , इण्डिया ,  the United States , and the European Space Agency have each sent lunar orbiters .
ये spacecraft have contributed to confirming the डिस्कवरी of चंद्र जल बर्फ in permanently shadowed craters at the डंडे और बंधी into the चंद्र regolith .
Future manned missions to the Moon have been planned , including  सरकारी  as well as privately funded efforts .
The Moon remains , under the Outer  स्पेस सन्धि  , free to all nations to explore for peaceful purposes .
Ronald Wilson  reagan ( ;  February 6 , 1911 – June 5 , 2004 ) was the 40th President of the United States ( 1981–1989 ) .
prior to कि , he थी the 33rd  Governor of California ( 1967–1975 ) , and a radio , film and television actor .
Born in Tampico , Illinois , and raised in  डिक्सन , reagan थी शिक्षित  at Eureka College , earning a Bachelor of Arts degree in economics and sociology .
After graduating , Reagan moved first to Iowa  to  work as a radio broadcaster and then , in 1937 , to Los Angeles where he began a career as an actor , first in films and later television .
Some of his  सबसे notable  films include Knute Rockne , All American ( 1940 ) , Kings Row ( 1942 ) , and Bedtime for Bonzo ( 1951 ) .
Reagan served as President of the Screen Actors Guild and later  as a  spokesman for General Electric ( GE ) ; his start in politics occurred during his work for GE .
Originally a member of the Democratic Party , his positions  began shifting rightward in  the 1950s , and he switched to the Republican Party in 1962 .
After delivering a rousing speech in support of Barry Goldwater 's presidential candidacy in 1964 , he was persuaded to  तलाश the कैलिफ़ोर्निया  governorship , winning two years later and again in 1970 .
He was defeated in his run for the Republican presidential nomination in 1968 and in 1976 , but won both the nomination and  सामान्य चुनाव  in 1980 , defeating incumbent Jimmy Carter .
As president , Reagan implemented sweeping new  राजनैतिक  and economic initiatives .
His supply-side economic policies , dubbed ``  reaganomics `` , advocated reducing  tax rates to spur economic growth , controlling the money supply to reduce inflation , deregulation of the economy , and reducing government spending .
In his first term he survived an assassination attempt , took a  hard  line against labor unions , announced a new War on Drugs , and ordered an invasion of Grenada .
He was re-elected in a landslide in 1984 ,  proclaiming कि it  was `` Morning in America `` .
His second term was primarily marked by foreign matters , such as the ending of the  ठंडा युद्ध  , the 1986 bombing of Libya , and the revelation of the Iran-Contra affair .
Publicly describing the Soviet Union as an `` evil empire `` , he supported anti-communist movements worldwide and spent his first term forgoing  the रणनीति of  détente by ordering a massive military buildup in an arms race with the USSR .
Reagan negotiated with Soviet General  सचिव  Mikhail Gorbachev , culminating in the INF Treaty and the decrease of both countries ' nuclear arsenals .
Reagan left office in  1989  .
In 1994 , the former president disclosed that he had been  diagnosed साथ अल्जाइमर 's बीमारी पहले in the  year ; he died ten years later at the age of 93 .
A conservative icon , he ranks highly in public opinion polls of U.S. Presidents and is  credited लिये generating  an ideological renaissance on the American political right .
Complete set of scrolls , constituting the  संपूर्ण tanakh  .
The Tanakh ( , or ; also Tenakh , Tenak , Tanach )  is a  name used in Judaism for the canon of the Hebrew Bible .
The Tanakh is also known as the  masoretic टेक्स्ट  or the Miqra .
The name is an acronym  formed इससे the आरंभिक यहूदी अक्षर  of the Masoretic Text 's three traditional subdivisions : The Torah ( `` Teaching '' , also known as the Five Books of Moses ) , Nevi'im ( `` Prophets '' ) and Ketuvim ( `` Writings '' ) —hence TaNaKh .
The name `` Miqra '' ( מקרא ) , meaning `` that which is read '' , is an  वैकल्पिक यहूदी पद लिये the tanakh  .
The books of the Tanakh were  relayed साथ an accompanying मौखिक  tradition passed on by each generation , called the Oral Torah .
The Kawasaki Ninja ZX-6R is a Kawasaki 600 cc  क्लास खेल  motorcycle .
It was introduced in 1995 , and has been constantly updated throughout the years in response to new  उत्पाद इससे होंडा  , Suzuki , and Yamaha .
The ZX series is what was known as the Ninja line of Kawasaki  मोटरसाइकिल in the 1980s और स्टिल carries the नाम  today .
Assassination attempts and plots on Presidents of the United States have been numerous : more than 20 attempts to  मार बैठे और पूर्व राष्ट्रपतियों  , as well as the Presidents-elect , are known .
Four sitting presidents have been killed : Abraham  lincoln ( the  16th President ) , James A. Garfield ( the 20th President ) , William McKinley ( the 25th President ) and John F. Kennedy ( the 35th President ) .
Two presidents were injured in attempted assassinations : former President  थियोडोर रूज़वेल्ट ( the 26th  President ) , and President Ronald Reagan ( the 40th President ) .
हालांकि the इतिहासकार j.w . क्लार्क रै सुझाया कि सबसे अमरीकी  assassinations were politically motivated actions , carried out by rational men , not all such attacks have been undertaken for political reasons .
Some attackers had questionable mental  स्थिरता , और  a few were judged legally insane .
Since the Vice President of the United States has for more than a century been elected from the same  राजनैतिक पार्टी as the अध्यक्ष , the  assassination of the President is unlikely to result in major policy changes .
This may explain why political  समूह typically  do not make such attacks .
जहाँ the  Red Fern Grows is a novel written by Wilson Rawls in 1961 about a boy who buys and trains two Redbone Coonhound hunting dogs .
Oklahoma ( ) ( Pawnee : Uukuhuúwa , Cayuga :  gahnawiyoˀgeh ) is a राज्य स्तिथ  in West South Central United States .
Oklahoma is the 20th most extensive and the   28th most populous of the 50 United States .
The  राज्य 's नाम is निकला इससे the choctaw शब्द okla  and humma , meaning `` red people '' , and it is known informally by its nickname , The Sooner State .
Formed by the combination of Oklahoma Territory and Indian  territory on नवम्बर 16 , 1907  , Oklahoma was the 46th state to enter the union .
Its residents are known as Oklahomans or ,  informally `` okies  '' , and its capital and largest city is Oklahoma City .
A  प्रमुख निर्माता  of natural gas , oil , and agriculture , Oklahoma relies on an economic base of aviation , energy , telecommunications , and biotechnology .
It has one of the fastest growing economies in the nation , ranking  among the  top states in per capita income growth and gross domestic product growth .
Oklahoma City and Tulsa serve as Oklahoma 's primary economic anchors , with nearly two thirds of Oklahomans living within their metropolitan  सांख्यिकीय  areas .
With small mountain ranges , prairie , mesas , and eastern forests , most of Oklahoma lies in the  ग्रेट मैदान और the u.s  . Interior Highlands —a region especially prone to severe weather .
In addition to having a prevalence of English , German , Scottish , Irish and Native American ancestry , more than 25 Native American languages are spoken in  ओक्लाहोमा , दूसरी  only to California .
Oklahoma is located on a confluence of three major American cultural regions and historically served as a  रूट लिये चौपायों ड्राइव  , a destination for southern settlers , and a government-sanctioned territory for Native Americans .
Redwall , by Brian Jacques , is a  श्रेणी of children 's  fantasy novels .
It is the title of the first book of the series , published in 1986 , as well as the name of the Abbey featured in the book and the name of an animated TV series based on three of the novels ( Redwall  ,  Mattimeo , and Martin the Warrior ) , which first aired in 1999 .
The books are  primarily aimed  at older children , but have fans of all ages .
There have been twenty-two novels and two  चित्र किताबे  published .
The twenty-second , and final , novel , The Rogue Crew , was posthumously  released on may 3  , 2011 .
Natural Gas is usually measured by  आवाज़ in the  United States and is stated in cubic feet .
A cubic foot of gas is the amount of gas needed to fill a volume of one cubic foot under set conditions of pressure and temperature.To measure  larger amounts of  natural gas , a `` therm '' is used to denote 100 cubic feet , and `` mcf '' is used to denote 1,000 cubic feet .
To provide greater accuracy  in comparing fuels , उर्जा  content is measured in terms of `` British Thermal Units ( BTU 's ) . ''
A BTU is the amount of heat required to raise one pound of water ( approximately a pint ) , one degree Fahrenheit at or close to  इसके पाइंट of अधिकतम  density .
एक अंग्रेजों therm ( प्रतीक thm ) is a non- si ईकाई of ऊष्मा उर्जा बराबर to 100,000 अंग्रेजों थर्मल इकाई ( btu ) .
It is approximately the energy equivalent of burning  100 घन फीट ( प्रायः  referred to as 1 CCF ) of natural gas .
चूंकि ( प्राकृतिक गैस ) मीटर माप  volume and not energy content , a therm factor is used by ( Natural ) gas companies to convert the volume of gas used to its heat equivalent , and thus calculate the actual energy use .
The  therm  factor is usually in the units therms/CCF .
It will vary with the mix of hydrocarbons  in the प्राकृतिक  gas .
Natural gas with a higher than average concentration of ethane ,  प्रोपेन or ब्यूटेन होगा have a उच्चतर therm  factor .
Impurities , such as carbon  डाइऑक्साइड or नाइट्रोजन  , lower the therm factor .
The volume of the gas is calculated as  if measured at  standard temperature and pressure ( STP ) .
The heat content of natural gas is solely dependent on the composition of the gas , and is independent of temperature  और दबाव  .
One therm is equal to  परिचय 105.5 megajoules  , 25,200 kilocalories or 29.3 kilowatt-hours .
One therm can  भी  be provided by about of natural gas .
The therm sometimes has been confused  साथ the thermie  ( see below ) .
The names of both units come from  the यूनानी  word for heat .
A thermie ( th ) is a metric unit of heat energy , part of the meter-tonne-second system sometimes used by  यूरोपीय  engineers .
the thermie is बराबर to the राशि of उर्जा जरूरी to उठाएँ the तापमान of 1 टन of जल by 1  °C .
The thermie is equivalent to 1,000 kilocalories , 4.1868 megajoules or  3968.3 btu  .
The American Civil War ( ACW ) , also known as the  युद्ध between the राज्य or बस  the Civil War ( see naming ) , was a civil war fought from 1861 to 1865 between the United States ( the `` Union '' or the `` North '' ) and several Southern slave states that declared their secession and formed the Confederate States of America ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ) .
The war had its origin in the issue of  गुलामी  , especially the extension of slavery into the western territories .
विदेशी शक्तियां  did not intervene .
After four years of bloody combat that left over 600,000 soldiers dead and destroyed much of the South 's infrastructure , the Confederacy collapsed , slavery was abolished , and  the मुश्किल पुनर्निर्माण प्रक्रम of restoring  national unity and guaranteeing rights to the freed slaves began .
in  the 1860 presidential election , Republicans , led by Abraham Lincoln , opposed expanding slavery into United States ' territories .
Lincoln won , but before his inauguration on March 4 , 1861 , seven cotton-based slave  राज्य  formed the Confederacy .
Outgoing Democratic President James Buchanan and the incoming  republicans अस्वीकृत  secession as illegal .
Lincoln 's inaugural address declared his  प्रशासन  would not initiate civil war .
Eight remaining slave states  जारी to अस्वीकृत  calls for secession .
Confederate forces seized numerous federal  दुर्गों  within territory claimed by the Confederacy .
A  सलाम  Conference failed to find a compromise , and both sides prepared for war .
The  confederates assumed कि यूरोपीय देशों यहूद  so dependent on `` King Cotton `` that they would intervene ; none did and none recognized the new Confederate States of America .
Hostilities began on April 12 , 1861 , when Confederate forces fired upon Fort  sumter , a कुंजी फोर्ट आयोजित by  Union troops in South Carolina .
Lincoln called for each state to provide troops  to retake the फोर्ट ; नतीजतन  , four more slave states joined the Confederacy , bringing their total to eleven .
The Union soon controlled the border states and established a naval  नाकेबंदी कि  crippled the southern economy .
The Eastern  थिएटर  was inconclusive in 1861–62 .
The  पतझड़ 1862 confederate  campaign into Maryland ( a Union state ) ended with Confederate retreat at the Battle of Antietam , dissuading British intervention .
Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation , which made  समाप्ति गुलामी  a war goal .
To the west , by summer 1862 the Union destroyed the Confederate  नदी नेवी ,  then much of their western armies , and the Union at Vicksburg split the Confederacy in two at the Mississippi River .
in 1863 , रॉबर्ट E. ली  's Confederate incursion north ended at the Battle of Gettysburg .
Western successes led to Ulysses S. Grant command of all Union  armies in  1864 .
In the Western Theater , William T. Sherman drove east to capture Atlanta and  marched to the समुद्र , destroying confederate  infrastructure along the way .
The Union marshaled the resources and manpower to attack the Confederacy from all directions , and could afford to fight battles of  अपघर्षण through  the Overland Campaign towards Richmond , the Confederate capital .
The defending Confederate army failed , leading to Lee 's  आत्मसमर्पण to ग्रान्ट  at Appomattox Court House on April 9 , 1865 .
The American Civil War was one of the   earliest true industrial wars .
Railroads ,  the टेलीग्राफ , steamships  , and mass-produced weapons were employed extensively .
The mobilization of civilian factories ,  खानों  , shipyards , banks , transportation and food supplies all foreshadowed World War I .
It remains the deadliest war in American history , resulting in  the मौतों of an अनुमानित 750,000  soldiers and an undetermined number of civilian casualties .
Historian John Huddleston estimates the death toll at ten  प्रतिशत of सब उत्तरी males  20–45 years old , and 30 percent of all Southern white males aged 18–40 .
William Bruce Jenner ( born October 28 , 1949 ) is a former U.S.  track और  field athlete , motivational speaker , socialite , television personality and businessman .
He won the gold medal for decathlon in  the मॉन्ट्रियल 1976  Summer Olympics .
Following his Olympic win and the related recognition , he married Kris Kardashian , and his professional  करियर विकसित into होने  a television celebrity .
By 1981 , he had starred in several made-for-TV movies and was Erik Estrada 's replacement  on the  top rated TV series CHiPs .
He has six children : Burt , Casey , Brandon , Brody ,  केंडल  and Kylie .
Since his 1991 marriage to Kris Jenner ,  he is the stepfather to कोर्टनी  , Kim , Khloe and Rob Kardashian .
Since  2007  , he has appeared with his blended family on Keeping Up with the Kardashians .
Escherichia coli ( ; commonly abbreviated E. coli  ) is a gram-negative ,  rod-shaped bacterium that is commonly found in the lower intestine of warm-blooded organisms ( endotherms ) .
Most E. coli strains are harmless , but some serotypes can cause  गंभीर खाना विषाक्तता in  humans , and are occasionally responsible for product recalls due to food contamination .
The harmless strains are part of the normal flora of the gut , and can benefit their hosts by producing vitamin K2 , and by  preventing the स्थापना  of pathogenic bacteria within the intestine .
E. coli and related bacteria constitute about 0.1 % of gut flora , and  fecal–oral हस्तांतरण  is the major route through which pathogenic strains of the bacterium cause disease .
Cells are able to survive outside the body for a limited amount of time , which makes them ideal indicator organisms to  परीक्षण पर्यावरणीय नमूने लिये fecal संदूषण  .
वहीँ is , however , a growing देह of शोध  that has examined environmentally persistent E. coli which can survive for extended periods outside of the host .
The bacterium can also be grown easily and inexpensively in a laboratory setting , and has been intensively  investigated लिये over  60 years .
E. coli is the most widely studied prokaryotic model organism , and an important species in the fields of biotechnology and microbiology  , जहाँ it रै परोसा as the मेजबान सजीव लिये  the majority of work with recombinant DNA .
Area code 217  is the उत्तर  American telephone area code for much of western and central Illinois .
The 217 area includes  इलिनोइस ' पूंजी , springfield , प्लस champaign  , Urbana , Decatur , Danville , Quincy , and Rantoul .
217 was one of the  असली क्षेत्रफल कोड ,  which were created in 1947 .
The only significant change in 217 's boundaries was in 1957 , when its northern portion was combined with part of area code  815 to रूप क्षेत्रफल कोड  309 .
Image of the largest Antarctic ozone hole  कभी अंकित  ( September 2006 ) , over the Southern pole
Layers of  the माहौल  ( not to scale )
Ozone depletion describes two distinct but related phenomena observed since the late 1970s : a steady decline of about 4 % per decade in the total volume of ozone in Earth 's stratosphere ( the ozone layer ) , and a much larger springtime decrease  in stratospheric ozone  over Earth 's polar regions .
the latter  phenomenon is referred to as the ozone hole .
In addition to these well-known stratospheric  phenomena  , there are also springtime polar tropospheric ozone depletion events .
the विवरण of ध्रुवीय ओज़ोन छेद गठन differ इससे कि of mid-latitude thinning , लकिन the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण प्रक्रम in दोनो is catalytic विनाश of ओज़ोन by परमाणु  halogens .
The main source of these halogen atoms in the stratosphere is photodissociation of man-made  halocarbon refrigerants  ( CFCs , freons , halons ) .
These compounds are  transported into the stratosphere  after being emitted at the surface .
Both types of ozone depletion were observed to increase as  emissions  of halo-carbons increased .
CFCs and other  contributory substances  are referred to as ozone-depleting substances ( ODS ) .
Since the ozone layer prevents most harmful UVB wavelengths ( 280–315 nm ) of ultraviolet light ( UV light ) from passing through the Earth 's atmosphere , observed and projected decreases in  ओज़ोन have उत्पन्न  worldwide concern leading to adoption of the Montreal Protocol that bans the production of CFCs , halons , and other ozone-depleting chemicals such as carbon tetrachloride and trichloroethane .
It is suspected that a variety of biological consequences such as increases in skin cancer , cataracts , damage to plants , and reduction of plankton populations in  the समंदर 's photic  zone may result from the increased UV exposure due to ozone depletion .
The Preamble to the United States Constitution is a brief introductory statement of the Constitution 's fundamental   purposes and guiding principles .
It states in  सामान्य शर्तें , और न्यायालयों have referred to it as विश्वसनीय  evidence of , the Founding Fathers ' intentions regarding the Constitution 's meaning and what they hoped the Constitution would achieve as it pertains to all of the people of the United States .
As the phrase , `` we the people '' suggests that the new government originates from the people of the United States and it sets into motion a question as it pertains to that vast population concerning the individual rights and equality among all people ; this  can be seen most  broadly in the divide between republicanism and social democracy .
Czechoslovakian  शॉट  putter Plihan at the 1957 East German Indoor Athletics Championships
The shot put ( pronounced  ) is  a track and field event involving `` throwing '' / '' putting '' ( throwing in a pushing motion ) a heavy spherical object —the shot—as far as possible .
The shot put competition for men has been a part of the modern Olympics since their revival in 1896 , women 's competition  began in 1948 .
Map of the United Nations ( UN ) member states  , साथ उनके territories ( सहित  dependent territories ) recognized by the UN in blue
There are United Nations ( UN ) member states , and each  of उन्हें is a सदस्य  of the United Nations General Assembly .
The criteria for  प्रवेश  of new members are set out in the United Nations Charter , Chapter II , Article 4:
A recommendation for admission from the Security Council requires affirmative votes from at least nine of the council 's fifteen  सदस्यों , साथ none of the पाँच स्थाई सदस्यों  voting against .
The Security Council 's recommendation must then be subsequently approved in the General Assembly by a  two-thirds  majority vote .
In principle , only  sovereign राज्य can become  UN members , and currently all UN members are sovereign states ( although a few members were not sovereign when they joined the UN ) .
Because a state can only be  admitted to the un by the स्वीकृति of the सुरक्षा परिषद और the सामान्य सभा  , a number of states that may be considered sovereign states according to the Montevideo Convention criteria are not members because the UN does not consider them to possess sovereignty , mainly due to the lack of international recognition or opposition from certain members .
In addition to the member states , the UN also invites non-member states ( currently two : the Holy See and Palestine ) , intergovernmental organizations , and other international organizations and entities whose statehood or sovereignty are not precisely defined , to become observers at the General Assembly  , allowing उन्हें to participate और बोलो , लकिन  not vote , in General Assembly meetings .
The Eiffel  Tower  ( , ) is an iron lattice tower located on the Champ de Mars in Paris , named after the engineer Gustave Eiffel , whose company designed and built the tower .
Erected in 1889 as the entrance arch to the 1889 World 's Fair , it has become both a global cultural icon of France and one of the most recognizable  structures  in the world .
The tower  is the tallest ढांचा in पेरिस  and the most-visited paid monument in the world ; 7.1 million people ascended it in 2011 .
The third level observatory 's upper platform is at the highest accessible to public in the European Union and the highest in Europe as long as  the मंच of the ostankino मीनार , at , remains  closed as a result of the fire of August 2000 .
The tower  प्राप्त  its 250 millionth visitor in 2010 .
the मीनार स्टैंड लम्बा ,  about the same height as an 81-storey building .
During its construction , the Eiffel Tower  surpassed the वॉशिंगटन स्मारक to assume the शीर्षक of the  tallest man-made structure in the world , a title it held for 41 years , until the Chrysler Building in New York City was built in 1930 .
Because of the addition , in 1957 , of the   antenna atop the Eiffel Tower , it is now taller than the Chrysler Building .
Not  सहित ब्रॉडकास्ट एन्टेना  , it is the second-tallest structure in France , after the Millau Viaduct .
The tower has three  स्तर लिये  visitors .
टिकटें can  be purchased to ascend , by stairs or lift ( elevator ) , to the first and second levels .
The walk from  मैदान स्तर to the पहला स्तर is  over 300 steps , as is the walk from the first to the second level .
The third and highest level  is  accessible only by lift—stairs do exist but are usually closed to the public .
The  पहला और दूसरी  levels have restaurants .
The  मीनार रै become the सबसे  prominent symbol of both Paris and France , often in the establishing shot of films set in the city .
Kenneth Wayne `` Ken '' Jennings III ( born May 23 , 1974  ) is an  American game show contestant and author .
Jennings is  विख्यात लिये पकड़कर the  record for the longest winning streak on the U.S. syndicated game show Jeopardy !
and as being the all-time leading money winner on American  खेल shows  .
In 2004 , Jennings won 74  jeopardy !
games before he was defeated  by चैलेंजर  Nancy Zerg on his 75th appearance .
His total earnings on  jeopardy  !
are $ 3,172,700 , consisting of $ 2,520,700  over उसके 74 विन्स  , a $ 2,000 second-place prize in his 75th appearance , a $ 500,000 second-place prize in the Jeopardy !
Ultimate  टूर्नामेंट of champions  , as well as half of a $ 300,000 prize in the IBM Challenge .
During his first run of  jeopardy  !
दिखावे , जेनिंग्स  earned the record for the highest American game show winnings .
उसके कुल थी surpassed by ब्रैड rutter , जो पराजित जेनिंग्स in the फाइनल of the jeopardy !
Ultimate Tournament of Champions ( first aired on May 25 , 2005 ) , adding $  2,000,000 to rutter  's existing Jeopardy !
winnings  .
Jennings regained the record after appearing on several other game shows , culminating in  an रूप on हैं तुम होशियार than a 5th grader  ?
(  पहला aired on  October 10 , 2008 ) , though Rutter retains the Jeopardy !
रिकार्ड  .
After his success on Jeopardy ! , Jennings wrote about his experience and explored American trivia history and culture in his book Brainiac : Adventures in the Curious , Competitive , Compulsive  संसार of ट्रिविया  Buffs , published in 2006 .
The Canadian Football League or CFL ( ' [ LCF ] in French ) is a professional sports league  स्तिथ  in Canada .
The CFL is the highest level of  प्रतियोगिता in कनाडाई  football , a form of gridiron football closely related to American football .
Its eight current teams , which are located in eight  पृथक शहरों , हैं विभाजित into दो विभाजन  of four teams each — the East Division and the West Division .
The  लीग 's 19-week नियमित ऋतु रनों  from late June to early November ; each team plays 18 games with one bye week .
Following the  नियमित ऋतु , the तीन टीमों साथ the  best records in their division ( except if the fourth place team in one division has a better record than the third place team in the other division , when the team with the better record makes the playoffs and `` crosses over '' to the other division 's playoff ) compete in the league 's three-week divisional playoffs , which culminate in the late-November Grey Cup championship , the country 's largest annual sports and television event .
The CFL was officially founded on January 19 , 1958 , making it the second oldest gridiron  फ़ुटबॉल लीग in उत्तर अमेरिका स्टिल in आपरेशन  , although all its teams long predate the modern formation of the league .
It is the   highest level of play in Canadian football , the most popular football league in Canada , and the second-most popular major sports league in Canada , after the National Hockey League .
Although ice hockey is Canada 's most  लोकप्रिय  sport , the CFL has increased the popularity of Canadian football in Quebec and Western Canada .
Canadian  फ़ुटबॉल  is also played at amateur levels ( i.e . youth , high school , CJFL , QJFL , CIS and senior leagues such as the Alberta Football League ) .
The 2010s will be a significant decade for the CFL in  शर्तें of विकास , as  teams have renovated , expanded stadiums , or plan to build entirely new stadiums .
The Montreal Alouettes accomplished this first , adding 5,000 seats to Percival Molson Memorial Stadium in  समय लिये the 2010 cfl ऋतु  .
The Edmonton Eskimos and Calgary Stampeders also renovated their  संबंधित  stadiums and facilities for the 2010 season .
In 2011 , the BC Lions played under a new , retractable roof in BC Place after spending one  और a हाफ  seasons at Empire Field .
Then the Winnipeg Blue Bombers will play in an entirely new  स्टेडियम at the विश्वविद्यालयों of मनिटोबा  , scheduled to open in time for the 2013 season .
The Hamilton Tiger-Cats , Saskatchewan Roughriders and the new Ottawa franchise are also looking at new or  extensively-renovated  stadiums in the following years .
There are also hopes of expanding the league to Atlantic Canada ( ideally basing a team in either the more  आबादी halifax , or  the more centralized Moncton ) , as 2010 and 2011 had regular season games hosted in Moncton .
According to sports historian Douglas Brei , the Canadian Football League holds the distinction of being the only professional sports league in North America , major or minor league , in which each existing franchise has won  at तनिक एक लीग शीर्षक जबकि in उनके वर्तमान  location .
Each antibody binds to a  विशिष्ट प्रतिजन ;  an interaction similar to a lock and key .
An antibody ( Ab ) , also known as an  immunoglobulin ( ig ) ,  is a large Y-shaped protein produced by B-cells that is used by the immune system to identify and neutralize foreign objects such as bacteria and viruses .
The antibody recognizes a unique  भाग of the  foreign target , called an antigen .
Each tip of the `` Y '' of an antibody contains a paratope ( a structure analogous to a lock ) that is specific for one particular epitope (  similarly analogous to a कुंजी ) on  an antigen , allowing these two structures to bind together with precision .
Using this binding mechanism , an antibody can tag a microbe or an infected  कोशिका लिये आक्रमण by अन्य भाग of the प्रतिरक्षा प्रणाली , or can neutralize  its target directly ( for example , by blocking a part of a microbe that is essential for its invasion and survival ) .
The  उत्पादन of antibodies  is the main function of the humoral immune system .
antibodies हैं स्रावित by a प्रकार of श्वेत रक्त कोशिका पुकारा a प्लाज्मा कोशिका  .
Antibodies can occur in two physical forms , a soluble form that is  स्रावित  from the cell , and a membrane -bound form that is attached to the surface of a B cell and is referred to as the B cell receptor ( BCR ) .
The BCR is only found on the surface of B cells and facilitates the activation of these cells and their  subsequent differentiation into either antibody  factories called plasma cells , or memory B cells that will survive in the body and remember that same antigen so the B cells can respond faster upon future exposure .
In most cases , interaction of  the b कोशिका साथ a t हेल्पर कोशिका  is necessary to produce full activation of the B cell and , therefore , antibody generation following antigen binding .
Soluble antibodies are released into the blood and tissue fluids , as well as many  secretions to continue to सर्वेक्षण लिये आक्रमणकारी  microorganisms .
Antibodies are glycoproteins belonging to the immunoglobulin superfamily ; the terms antibody and immunoglobulin are often used  interchangeably  .
antibodies हैं typically  made of basic structural units—each with two large heavy chains and two small light chains .
There are several different types of antibody heavy chains , and several different kinds of antibodies , which are grouped into different  isotypes आधारित on जिससे भारी कड़ी  they possess .
Five different antibody isotypes are known in mammals , which perform different roles , and help direct  the  appropriate immune response for each different type of foreign object they encounter .
Though the general structure of all antibodies is very similar , a small region at the tip of the protein is extremely variable , allowing millions of antibodies  साथ थोड़ा अलग  tip structures , or antigen binding sites , to exist .
This region is known as  the hypervariable  region .
Each of  ये  variants can bind to a different antigen .
This enormous diversity of antibodies allows the immune system to recognize an equally wide variety of  antigens  .
The large and diverse population of antibodies is generated by random combinations of a set of gene segments that encode different antigen binding sites ( or paratopes ) , followed by random  mutations in  this area of the antibody gene , which create further diversity .
Antibody genes also re-organize in a process called  क्लास switching कि परिवर्तन the आधार of  the heavy chain to another , creating a different isotype of the antibody that retains the antigen specific variable region .
This allows a single antibody to be used by several  अलग भाग of the प्रतिरक्षा  system .
The symbol used by the Zodiac Killer to  चिह्न  his correspondence
The Zodiac Killer was a serial killer who operated in Northern California in the late 1960s and  जल्दी  1970s .
The killer  's पहचान  remains unknown .
The Zodiac murdered victims in Benicia , Vallejo , Lake Berryessa , and San  फ्रांसिस्को between  December 1968 and October 1969 .
Four men and three women between the  आयु of 16 और  29 were targeted .
The killer originated the name `` Zodiac  '' in  a series of taunting letters sent to the local Bay Area press .
These letters included four cryptograms ( or  ciphers  ) .
Of the four cryptograms sent , only  एक रै महरूम definitively  solved .
Suspects  have महरूम नामित by विधि प्रवर्तन  and amateur investigators , but no conclusive evidence has surfaced .
In April 2004 , the San Francisco  पुलिस विभाग  marked the case `` inactive '' , yet re-opened the case at some point prior to March 2007 .
The case also remains open in the city of Vallejo , as well as in  नापा काउंटी और  Solano County .
The  कैलिफ़ोर्निया विभाग of  Justice has maintained an open case file on the Zodiac murders since 1969 .
Jennings is a small city in and the parish seat  of जेफरसन  Davis Parish , Louisiana , United States , near Lake Charles .
The population was 10,383 at the  2010 जनसांख्यिकी ,  a small decline from the 2000 tabulation .
The  नगर  is 68 percent white .
Jennings is  the प्रिंसिपल नगर  of the Jennings Micropolitan Statistical Area , which includes all of Jefferson Davis Parish .
It is also part of the larger Lake Charles-Jennings Combined  सांख्यिकीय क्षेत्रफल .
Nanotechnology ( sometimes  shortened to `` nanotech  '' ) is the manipulation of matter on an atomic and molecular scale .
The earliest , widespread description of nanotechnology referred to the particular technological goal of precisely manipulating  अणु  and molecules for fabrication of macroscale products , also now referred to as molecular nanotechnology .
A more generalized description of nanotechnology was subsequently established by the National Nanotechnology Initiative , which defines nanotechnology as the manipulation of matter  साथ at तनिक एक आयाम sized इससे 1 to 100 nanometers  .
This definition reflects the fact that quantum mechanical effects are important at this quantum-realm scale , and so  the परिभाषा shifted इससे a particular technological  goal to a research category inclusive of all types of research and technologies that deal with the special properties of matter that occur below the given size threshold .
It is therefore   common to see the plural form `` nanotechnologies '' as well as `` nanoscale technologies '' to refer to the broad range of research and applications whose common trait is size .
Because of the variety of potential applications (  सहित औद्योगिक और  military ) , governments have invested billions of dollars in nanotechnology research .
Through its National Nanotechnology Initiative , the USA  रै invested  3.7 billion dollars .
The European Union has  invested 1.2  billion and Japan 750 million dollars .
Nanotechnology as defined by size is naturally very broad , including fields of science as diverse as surface  विज्ञान , सशुल्क रसायन  , molecular biology , semiconductor physics , microfabrication , etc .
The associated research and applications are equally diverse , ranging  इससे एक्सटेंशन of conventional यंत्र भौतिकी  to completely new approaches based upon molecular self-assembly , from developing new materials with dimensions on the nanoscale to direct control of matter on the atomic scale .
Scientists currently  बहस the भविष्य  implications of nanotechnology .
Nanotechnology may be able to create many new materials and devices with a vast range of applications , such as in  आयुर्विज्ञान , इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स , biomaterials और  energy production .
On the other hand , nanotechnology raises many of the same issues as  कोई नई प्रौद्योगिकी , सहित चिंताएं परिचय the  toxicity and environmental impact of nanomaterials , and their potential effects on global economics , as well as speculation about various doomsday scenarios .
These concerns have led to a debate among advocacy groups and  सरकारें on whether खास विनियमन of nanotechnology  is warranted .
Map of  the  Eastern Bloc
The term Eastern Bloc or Communist Bloc  refers to the पूर्व कम्युनिस्ट  states of Central and Eastern Europe , generally the Soviet Union and the countries of the Warsaw Pact .
The terms Communist Bloc and Soviet Bloc were also used to denote groupings of states aligned with the Soviet Union , although these terms might include  राज्य  outside Central and Eastern Europe .
The New Jersey gubernatorial election of  2009 took प्लेस on नवम्बर  3 , 2009 .
Democratic Governor Jon Corzine was running for a second term and was being  challenged by रिपब्लिकन क्रिस क्रिस्टी ,  Independent Christopher Daggett and nine others , in addition to several write-in candidates .
Christie  जीती the चुनाव , साथ  about 48.5 percent of the vote , to 44.9 percent for Corzine and 5.8 percent for Daggett .
Christie won the  largest हाशिया लिये a पहला  term Republican since 1969 .
Christie assumed office on  जनवरी 19 ,  2010 .
This was the first election to fill the newly created  दफ्तर of लेफ्टिनेंट  Governor .
The candidates for governor and lieutenant governor were joined together as a single choice , so  कि मतदाता किया नहीं have the  opportunity to split the ticket .
Kim Guadagno , Christie 's running mate , became New Jersey 's  पहला लेफ्टिनेंट राज्यपाल following  her inauguration .
Health care in   the United States is provided by many distinct organizations .
Health care facilities are largely owned  और  operated by private sector businesses .
Health insurance for public sector employees is primarily  provided  by the government .
60-65 % of healthcare provision and spending comes from programs such as Medicare , Medicaid , TRICARE , the Children 's Health Insurance Program   , and the Veterans Health Administration .
Most of the  जनसांख्यिकी अंतर्गत 65  is insured by their or a family member 's employer , some buy health insurance on their own , and the remainder are uninsured .
Of 17 high-income countries studied by the National Institutes of Health in 2013 , the United States was at or near the bottom in infant  मृत्यु , दिल और फेफड़ों  disease , sexually transmitted infections , adolescent pregnancies , injuries , homicides , and rates of disability .
Together , such issues place the U.S. at the bottom of the list  लिये जीवन  expectancy .
On average , a U.S. male can be expected to   live almost four fewer years than those in the top-ranked country .
According to the World Health Organization ( WHO ) , the United States spent more on health care per capita ( $ 7,146 ) , and more  on स्वास्थ्य परवाह as प्रतिशत of इसके जीडीपी ( 15.2  % ) , than any other nation in 2008 .
The Commonwealth Fund ranked the United States last in the quality of health  परवाह among समान देशों  , and notes U.S. care costs the most .
The U.S. Census Bureau reported that 49.9 million residents , 16.3 % of  the जनसांख्यिकी , यहूद uninsured in 2010 ( up इससे 49.0  million residents , 16.1 % of the population , in 2009 ) .
A 2004 Institute of Medicine ( IOM ) report said : `` The United States is  among the few industrialized राष्ट्र in the संसार  that does not guarantee access to health care for its population . ''
A 2004 OECD report said : `` With the exception of Mexico , Turkey , and the United States , all OECD countries had  हासिल सार्वभौमिक  or near-universal ( at least 98.4 % insured ) coverage of their populations by 1990 . ''
A 2010 report observed that lack of health insurance  कल्याणकारी roughly  48,000 unnecessary deaths every year in the United States .
In 2007 , 62.1 % of filers for bankruptcies claimed  ऊँची चिकित्सा खर्च  .
A 2013 study found that about 25 % of all senior  नागरिकों घोषित दिवालियापन due to चिकित्सा  expenses , and 43 % are forced to mortgage or sell their primary residence .
On March 23 , 2010 , the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act ( PPACA ) became  विधि , providing लिये  major changes in health insurance .
In physiology , body water is the  जल  content of the human body .
A  significant  fraction of the human body is water .
Arthur Guyton   's Textbook of Medical Physiology states that `` the total amount of water in a man of average weight ( 70 kilograms ) is approximately 40 litres , averaging 57 percent of his total body weight .
In a newborn infant , this may be as high as 75 percent of the body weight , but it progressively decreases from birth to old age , most of the decrease  occurring दौरान the पहला 10 सालो  of life .
Also , obesity decreases the percentage of  जल in the देह , sometimes  to as low as 45 percent '' .
ये आंकड़े हैं सांख्यिकीय averages , so हैं illustrative  , and like all biostatistics , will vary with things like type of population , age and number of people sampled , and methodology .
So there is not , and can not be , a figure that is exactly the same for all people , for this or  कोई अन्य physiological माप  .
For example , Jackson 's ( 1985 ) Anatomy & Physiology for Nurses gives a figure of 60 % for the proportion of  body-weight attributable to जल , जिससे approximates  Guyton 's 57 % .
In diseased states where body water is affected , the compartment or  compartments कि have  changed can give clues to the nature of the problem .
Body water is regulated by hormones , including anti-diuretic hormone ( ADH ) , aldosterone  और अलिंदी natriuretic  peptide .
Per Netter 's Atlas of  इंसान physiology  , body water is broken down into the following compartments:
Intracellular fluid (  2/3 of देह  water ) .
Per Guyton , in a body containing 40  लीटर of द्रव , परिचय 25  litres is intracellular , which amounts to 62.5 % ( 5/8 ) , close enough to the 2/3 rule of thumb .
Jackson 's texts states 70 % of body fluid  is intracellular  .
Extracellular fluid ( 1/3  of देह  water ) .
Per Guyton 's illustration , for a 40 litre body , about 15 litres is  extracellular , जिससे  amounts to 37.5 % Again , this is close to the 1/3 rule of thumb cited here .
Plasma ( 1/5 of  extracellular  fluid ) .
प्रति guyton 's  illustration , of the 15 litres of extracellular fluid , plasma volume averages 3 litres .
This amounts  to  20 % , the same as per Netter 's Atlas .
अंतरालीय  fluid ( 4/5 of extracellular fluid )
Transcellular fluid (  a.k.a . `` तीसरा  space , '' normally ignored in calculations )
Contained inside organs , such as the gastrointestinal   , cerebrospinal , peritoneal , and ocular fluids .
Self-esteem is a term used in psychology to reflect a person 's overall  emotional मूल्यांकन of उसके or उसके  own worth .
It is a judgement of  oneself as खूब as an  attitude toward the self .
self-esteem encompasses मान्यताओं ( लिये उदाहरण , `` i am competent , '' `` i am worthy '' ) और भाव ऐसे as triumph , despair , अभिमान और शर्म .
Smith and  mackie define it by saying  `` The self-concept is what we think about the self ; self-esteem , is the positive or negative evaluations of the self , as in how we feel about it . ''
Self-esteem is also known as the evaluative dimension of the self that includes  जज्बात  of worthiness , prides and discouragement .
One 's self-esteem is also closely associated with  self-consciousness .
self-esteem is a disposition  that a person has which represents their judgements of their own worthiness .
In the mid-1960s  , मॉरिस rosenberg  and social-learning theorists defined self-esteem as a personal worth or worthiness .
nathaniel branden in 1969 पारिभाषित self-esteem as `` the  experience of being competent to cope with the basic challenges of life and being worthy of happiness . ''
According to Branden , self-esteem is the sum of  self-confidence ( a अहसास of निजी  capacity ) and self-respect ( a feeling of personal worth ) .
It exists as a consequence of the implicit judgement that every person has of their ability to face life 's challenges , to understand and solve problems , and  उनके सही to achieve सुख  , and be given respect .
As a social psychological construct , self-esteem is attractive because researchers have  conceptualized it as an influential  predictor of relevant outcomes , such as academic achievement ( Marsh 1990 ) or exercise behavior ( Hagger et al . 1998 ) .
In addition , self-esteem has also been treated as an important outcome due to its  बंद संबंध साथ मनोवैज्ञानिक  well-being ( Marsh 1989 ) .
Self-esteem can apply specifically to a particular dimension ( for example , `` I believe I am a good writer and I feel happy about that '' ) or a global extent ( for example  , `` i मानना i am a ख़राब व्यक्ति , और महसूस  bad about myself in general '' ) .
Psychologists  प्रायः लिहाज़ self-esteem as an enduring व्यक्तित्व  characteristic ( `` trait '' self-esteem ) , though normal , short-term variations ( `` state '' self-esteem ) also exist .
Synonyms or near-synonyms of  self-esteem  include : self-worth , self-regard , self-respect , and self-integrity .
A Masonic Lodge , often termed a Private Lodge or Constituent Lodge ,  is the मौलिक organisational  unit of Freemasonry .
Every new Lodge must be warranted or chartered by a Grand  आवास , लकिन is विषय to  its direction only in enforcing the published Constitution of the jurisdiction .
By exception the three  surviving lodges कि formed the संसार 's पहला ज्ञात  Grand Lodge in London ( today called the United Grand Lodge of England ) have the unique privilege to operate as time immemorial i.e . without such warrant ; only one other lodge operates without a warrant - this is the Grand Stewards ' Lodge in London , although it is not also entitled to the `` time immemorial '' title .
A Freemason is generally entitled to visit any Lodge , in any jurisdiction ( i.e . under  कोई ग्रैंड आवास ) in सौहार्द साथ उसके  own .
In some  jurisdictions इस विशेषाधिकार  is restricted to Master Masons ( that is , Freemasons who have attained the Order 's third degree ) .
He is first usually required to check , and certify , the regularity of the relationship of the Lodge - and be able to  satisfy कि आवास of उसके नियमितता of सदस्यता  .
Freemasons gather together as a Lodge to work the three basic Degrees of Entered Apprentice ,  fellowcraft और निपुण मेसन  .
Pilkington Group Limited is a multinational glass manufacturing  कम्पनी  headquartered in St Helens , United Kingdom and a wholly owned subsidiary of the Japan-based NSG Group .
Prior to its acquisition by NSG in 2006 it was an independent company  सूचीबद्ध  on the London Stock Exchange and for a time was a constituent of the FTSE 100 Index .
A quotation is the repetition of one expression as part of another one , particularly when the quoted expression is well-known or explicitly attributed by citation to its original source , and it is indicated by ( punctuated with )  quotation  marks .
A  quotation can भी refer to the दोहराया उपयोग  of units of any other form of expression , especially parts of artistic works : elements of a painting , scenes from a movie or sections from a musical composition .
Year 1877 ( MDCCCLXXVII ) was a common year starting on Monday ( link will display the full calendar ) of the Gregorian calendar and a common year starting on  शनिवार of the 12-day धीमा जूलियन पंचांग .
Black pepper (  पाइपर nigrum ) is a flowering बेल in  the family Piperaceae , cultivated for its fruit , which is usually dried and used as a spice and seasoning .
The fruit  ,  known as a peppercorn when dried , is approximately in diameter , dark red when fully mature , and , like all drupes , contains a single seed .
Peppercorns , and the ground pepper derived from them , may be  वर्णित बस as pepper , or अधिक precisely as ब्लैक  pepper ( cooked and dried unripe fruit ) , green pepper ( dried unripe fruit ) and white pepper ( dried ripe seeds ) .
ब्लैक pepper is देशी to दक्षिण  India , and is extensively cultivated there and elsewhere in tropical regions .
Currently Vietnam is the world 's largest producer and exporter of pepper , producing 34 % of the world  's पाइपर nigrum क्रॉप as of 2008  .
Dried ground pepper has been used since antiquity for both its  फ्लेवर और as a आयुर्विज्ञान  .
Black  pepper is the  world 's most traded spice .
It is  एक of the सबसे आम  spices added to European cuisine and its descendants .
The spiciness of  ब्लैक pepper  is due to the chemical piperine , not to be confused with the capsaicin that gives fleshy peppers theirs .
It is in the modern  संसार , प्रायः युग्म  with salt .
Fire hydrant in  charlottesville , वर्जिनिया  , USA
A fire hydrant ( also known colloquially as a fire plug in the United States or as a johnny pump in New York City ) , is an active fire protection measure , and a source of water provided in most urban , suburban and rural areas with  नगरपालिका जल सेवा to enable अग्निशमन  to tap into the municipal water supply to assist in extinguishing a fire .
Buildings near a hydrant may qualify for an insurance discount since firefighters should be able to more rapidly extinguish a fire on the  insured प्रॉपर्टी  .
The concept of fire  plugs  dates to at least the 17th century .
This was a time when firefighters responding to a call would dig down to the wooden water mains and hastily bore a  छेद to सुरक्षित  water to fight fires .
The water would fill the hole creating a  अस्थाई खूब , और be transported इससे the खूब to the  fire by bucket brigades or , later , by hand-pumped fire engines .
The holes were then plugged with stoppers , normally redwood , which  over समय आए to be ज्ञात  as fire plugs .
The location of the plug would often be recorded or marked so that it could be  reused in भविष्य  fires .
This is the source of the  colloquial पद  fire plug still used for fire hydrants today .
After the Great  आग of लंदन in  1666 , the city installed water mains with holes drilled at intervals , equipped with risers , allowing an access point to the wooden fire plugs from street level .
The invention of a post- or pillar-type fire hydrant is generally credited to Frederick  graff sr. , मुख्य  Engineer of the Philadelphia Water Works around the year 1801 .
It had a combination hose/faucet outlet and was of `` wet barrel '' design with  the वाल्व in  the top .
It is said that Graff held the first patent for a fire hydrant , but this can not be verified  क्युकी  the patent office in Washington D.C. caught on fire in 1836 destroying many patent records from that period in the process .
The President of the Republic of South Africa  is the सिर of  state and head of government under South Africa 's Constitution .
From 1961 to  1994  , the head of state was called the State President .
The President is elected by members of the  नेशनल सभा , the निम्नतर हाउस of पार्लियामेंट , और is प्रायः  the leader of the largest party , which has been the African National Congress since the first non-racial elections were held on 27 April 1994 .
The role was originally founded to be distinct from the now defunct role of prime minister , but the two roles were merged in the 1983 constitution which specified  a four-year  term of office .
The 1993 and later constitutions limits the president 's time  in  office to two five-year terms .
The  पहला अध्यक्ष to be निर्वाचित  under the new constitution was Nelson Mandela , and the incumbent president is Jacob Zuma .
Under the interim Constitution ( valid from 1994 to 1996 ) , there was a Government of National Unity , in which an MP  इससे the largest  opposition party was entitled to a position as Deputy President .
Along with Thabo Mbeki , the last  राज्य अध्यक्ष  , F.W . De Klerk also served as Deputy President , in his capacity as the leader of the National Party which was the second-largest party in the new Parliament .
But De Klerk later resigned and went into opposition  साथ उसके पार्टी .
A voluntary coalition government continues to exist under the new constitution ( adopted in 1996 ) , although there have  महरूम no नियुक्ति of विपक्ष  politicians to the post of deputy president .
Special education or special needs education is the education of students with special needs in a way that addresses the   students ' individual differences and needs .
Ideally , this process involves the individually planned and systematically monitored arrangement of teaching procedures , adapted equipment and materials , accessible settings , and other  interventions designed to सहायता learners साथ खास  needs achieve a higher level of personal self-sufficiency and success in school and community than would be available if the student were only given access to a typical classroom education .
Common special needs include  चुनौतियां साथ सीखना , संचार चुनौतियां  , emotional and behavioral disorders , physical disabilities , and developmental disorders .
Students with these kinds of special needs are likely to benefit from  अतिरिक्त  educational services such as different approaches to teaching , use of technology , a specifically adapted teaching area , or resource room .
Intellectual giftedness is a difference in learning and can also benefit from specialized  शिक्षण तकनीकों or अलग शैक्षणिक कार्यक्रम , लकिन the पद `` खास शिक्षा  '' is generally used to specifically indicate instruction of students whose special needs reduce their ability to learn independently or in an ordinary classroom , and gifted education is handled separately .
In most developed countries , educators are modifying teaching  विधि  and environments so that the maximum number of students are served in general education environments .
Special education in developed countries is often regarded less as  a ``  place '' and more as `` a range of services , available in every school . ''
Integration can reduce social stigmas and improve academic  उपलब्धि लिये  many students .
The  विपरीत of  special education is general education .
General education is the standard curriculum presented  with  standard teaching methods and without additional supports .
George Soros ( or ;  ; ; born अगस्त 12 , 1930  , as Schwartz György ) is a Hungarian-American business magnate , investor , and philanthropist .
He is the chairman of  सोरोस निधि प्रबन्धन  .
Soros supports  progressive-liberal  causes .
He is known as `` The Man Who Broke the Bank of  इंग्लैण्ड `` क्युकी  of his in investment profits during the 1992 Black Wednesday UK currency crisis .
Between 1979 and 2011 , Soros gave away over $  8 अरब  to human rights , public health , and education causes .
He played a significant role in  the  peaceful transition from communism to capitalism in Hungary ( 1984–89 ) and provided one of Europe 's largest higher education endowments to Central European University in Budapest .
Soros is  भी the अध्यक्ष  of the Open Society Institute .
An actor  portraying सिकंदर  Graham Bell speaking into an early model telephone .
The invention of the telephone is the culmination of work done by  अनेक individuals  , the history of which involves a collection of claims and counterclaims .
The development of the modern electrical telephone   involved an array of lawsuits founded upon the patent claims of several individuals and numerous companies .
This article covers the early years from 1844 to 1898 , from conception of the idea of  an इलेक्ट्रिक voice-transmission यंत्र , to विफल कोशिशें to उपयोग `` make-and-break '' वर्तमान , to कामयाब प्रयोग  with electromagnetic telephones by Alexander Graham Bell and Thomas Watson , and finally to commercially successful telephones in the late 19th century .
A Master of Fine Arts ( MFA , M.F.A . ) is a graduate degree  typically requiring 2–3  years of postgraduate study beyond the bachelor 's degree ( BFA ) , although the term of study will vary by country or by university .
The MFA is a creative degree  प्रायः  awarded as a terminal degree in visual arts , creative writing , filmmaking , dance , or theatre and other performing arts .
Coursework is primarily of an applied  or  performing nature with the program often culminating in a major work or performance .
निपुण of ठीक कला कार्यक्रम have generally जरूरी a स्नातक 's उपाधि prior to प्रवेश , लकिन अनेक do नहीं आवश्यकता कि the undergraduate प्रमुख be the वही as the mfa फ़ील्ड of पढ़ाई  .
The most important admissions requirement has often been  a  sample portfolio or a performance audition .
The Master of Fine Arts differs from the Master of Arts in that the MFA , while an academic program , centers around practice in the particular field , whereas programs leading to the MA  प्रायः बीच on the scholarly , अकादमिक  , or critical study of the field .
additionally , in the संयुक्त राज्य  , an MFA is recognized as a terminal degree for practitioners of Visual Art , Design , Dance , Theatre , Film/Video , New Media , and Creative Writing - meaning that it is considered to be the highest degree in its field , and is used as a minimum qualification to be able to apply to become a Full-Time Professor teaching at the University level in these disciplines .
There are exceptions to this standard in the Arts , notably in  the मामला of म्यूज़िक प्रदर्शन  , where the MFA is not seen as a terminal degree in the context of the more standardized DMA degree .
It is also critical to note that in the interest of extending the connection between creative production  और जारी अकादमिक शोध , कुछ विश्वविद्यालयों have  established practice-based Ph.D programs in fields such as creative writing , visual arts , new media , design and theater .
While this has had an effect in Creative Writing , and to a lesser extent in design and new media , the influx of graduates from practice-based PhD programs has not appreciably  बदला the मानक लिये the mfa as the टर्मिनल उपाधि in सबसे कला disciplines  yet .
This is an ongoing contentious topic , and is the frequent subject of  अकादमिक panels , विशेषकर  at the annual College Art Association conference .
The CAA 2008 guidelines regarding the MFA strongly re-affirms that the PhD is not required as a terminal   degree in the visual arts .
The atomic bombings of the cities of Hiroshima and  नागासाकी in जापानी यहूद conducted by the संयुक्त राज्य दौरान  the final stages of World War II in 1945 .
The two  कार्यक्रम हैं the  only use of nuclear weapons in war to date .
Following a  firebombing अभियान  that destroyed many Japanese cities , the Allies prepared for a costly invasion of Japan .
The war in Europe ended when Nazi Germany signed its instrument of surrender on 8 May , but the Pacific War continued  .
Together with the United  किंगडम और the गणतंत्र of चीन ,  the United States called for a surrender of Japan in the Potsdam Declaration on 26 July 1945 , threatening Japan with `` prompt and utter destruction '' .
The Japanese government ignored this ultimatum , and the United States deployed two nuclear   weapons developed by the Manhattan Project .
American airmen dropped Little  लड़के  on the city of Hiroshima on 6 August 1945 , followed by Fat Man over Nagasaki on 9 August .
Within the first two to four  महीने of the bombings  , the acute effects killed 90,000–166,000 people in Hiroshima and 60,000–80,000 in Nagasaki , with roughly half of the deaths in each city occurring on the first day .
The Hiroshima prefecture health department estimated that , of the people who died on the day of the explosion , 60 % died  इससे फ्लैश or ज्वाला  burns , 30 % from falling debris and 10 % from other causes .
During the following months , large numbers died from the effect of burns  ,  radiation sickness , and other injuries , compounded by illness .
In  a us अनुमान  of the total immediate and short term cause of death , 15–20 % died from radiation sickness , 20–30 % from burns , and 50–60 % from other injuries , compounded by illness .
In both cities , most of the dead were civilians , although Hiroshima had  a sizeable गैरीसन  .
On 15 August , six days after the bombing of Nagasaki , Japan announced   its surrender to the Allies , signing the Instrument of Surrender on 2 September , officially ending World War II .
The bombings led , in part , to post-war Japan 's  adopting तीन non-nuclear  Principles , forbidding the nation from nuclear armament .
The role of the bombings in Japan 's surrender and their ethical  औचित्य हैं स्टिल debated  .
Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi ( ; 2 October 1869 – 30 January 1948 ) , commonly known as Mahatma Gandhi , was the preeminent leader of Indian  राष्ट्रवाद in british-ruled  India .
Employing non-violent civil disobedience , Gandhi led India to independence and inspired movements for non-violence , civil  अधिकारों और स्वतंत्रता आरपार  the world .
The son of a senior government official , Gandhi was born and raised in a Hindu Bania community in coastal  गुजरात , और प्रशिक्षित in विधि in लंदन  .
Gandhi became famous by  लड़ लिये the सिविल अधिकारों of  Muslim and Hindu Indians in South Africa , using new techniques of non-violent civil disobedience that he developed .
returning  to India in 1915 , he set about organising peasants to protest excessive land-taxes .
A lifelong opponent of ``  सांप्रदायिकता `` ( i.e . basing  politics on religion ) he reached out widely to all religious groups .
He became a leader of   Muslims protesting the declining status of the Caliphate .
Assuming leadership of the Indian National Congress in 1921 , Gandhi led nationwide campaigns for easing poverty , expanding women 's rights , building religious and  जातीय सौहार्द , समाप्ति अस्पृश्यता , increasing आर्थिक self-reliance  , and above all for achieving Swaraj —the independence of India from British domination .
Gandhi led Indians in protesting  the नेशनल नमक कर साथ the dandi नमक  March in 1930 , and later in demanding the British to immediately Quit India in 1942 , during World War II .
he थी imprisoned लिये कि और लिये numerous अन्य राजनैतिक offenses over  the years .
Gandhi  sought to अभ्यास  non-violence and truth in all situations , and advocated that others do the same .
He saw the villages as the core of the true  इण्डिया और प्रचारित self-sufficiency ; he किया  not support the industrialization programs of his disciple Jawaharlal Nehru .
He lived modestly in a self-sufficient residential community  और पहना the परंपरागत  Indian dhoti and shawl , woven with yarn he had hand spun on a charkha .
His chief  राजनैतिक  enemy in Britain was Winston Churchill , who ridiculed him as a `` half-naked fakir . ''
He was a dedicated vegetarian , and undertook long fasts as means of both self-purification and  राजनैतिक mobilization .
In his last year , unhappy at the partition of India , Gandhi worked to stop the carnage between Muslims , Hindus and Sikhs that raged in the border area between India and  पाकिस्तानी  .
He was assassinated on 30 January 1948 by Nathuram Godse who thought Gandhi was too  सहानुभूतिपूर्ण to  India 's Muslims .
30 January is  observed  as Martyrs ' Day in India .
The honorific Mahatma ( `` Great Soul '' )  थी लागू to  him by 1914 .
In India he  थी भी  called Bapu ( `` Father '' ) .
He is known in India as the  पिता  of the Nation ; his birthday , 2 October , is commemorated there as Gandhi Jayanti , a national holiday , and world-wide as the International Day of Non-Violence .
Gandhi 's  दर्शनशास्त्र थी नहीं  theoretical but one of pragmatism , that is , practicing his principles in the moment .
Asked to give a message to the people , he would respond ,  `` my  life is my message . ''
Joan Crawford ( March 23 , ca . 1904 – May 10 , 1977 ) , born Lucille Fay LeSueur ,  थी an अमरीकी अभिनेत्री  in film , television and theatre .
Starting as a dancer in traveling theatrical companies before debuting on  ब्रॉडवे  , Crawford was signed to a motion picture contract by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer in 1925 .
Initially frustrated by the size and quality of  उसके भाग , क्रॉफर्ड began a अभियान  of self-publicity and became nationally known as a flapper by the end of the 1920s .
In the 1930s , Crawford 's fame rivaled , and later outlasted , MGM colleagues Norma  शियर्र और greta garbo  .
Crawford often played  मेहनती यंग महिलाओं जो  find romance and financial success .
These ``  rags-to-riches '' कहानियां  were well received by Depression -era audiences and were popular with women .
क्रॉफर्ड became एक  of Hollywood 's most prominent movie stars and one of the highest paid women in the United States , but her films began losing money and by the end of the 1930s she was labeled `` box office poison '' .
After an absence of nearly two years from the screen , Crawford staged a comeback by starring in Mildred Pierce (  1945 ) , लिये जिससे वो जीती the अकादमी पुरस्कार  for Best Actress .
In 1955 , she became involved with the Pepsi-Cola  कम्पनी through  her marriage to company Chairman Alfred Steele .
After his death in 1959  , क्रॉफर्ड थी निर्वाचित  to fill his vacancy on the board of directors but was forcibly retired in 1973 .
She continued acting in film and television regularly  through the 1960s , जब उसके प्रदर्शन became  fewer ; after the release of the British horror film Trog in 1970 , Crawford retired from the screen .
Following a public appearance in 1974 , after which unflattering  छायाचित्र यहूद प्रकाशित , क्रॉफर्ड withdrew इससे पब्लिक जीवन  and became increasingly reclusive until her death in 1977 .
Crawford married  चार टाइम्स  .
Her first three marriages ended in divorce ;  the पिछला ended साथ the  death of husband Alfred Steele .
She adopted five children , one of whom  थी reclaimed  by his birth mother .
Crawford 's relationships with her two older children ,  क्रिस्टीना और क्रिस्टोफर  , were acrimonious .
Crawford disinherited the two and , after Crawford 's death , Christina wrote a `` tell-all  '' संस्मरण , mommie dearest  , in which she alleged a lifelong pattern of physical and emotional abuse perpetrated by Crawford .
She was voted the tenth greatest female star in the  इतिहास of अमरीकी सिनेमा  by the American Film Institute .
1910 Buick  tonneau बगैर  tonneau cover
1903 Ford Model A  rear-door  Tonneau
1903 Lanchester rear-door  tonneau
Tonneau cover ( or ) describes a hard or soft cover  प्रयुक्त to protect  unoccupied passenger seats in a convertible or roadster , or the cargo bed in a pickup truck .
Hard  tonneau कवर खोलें by a hinging  or folding mechanism while soft covers open by rolling up .
The tonneau cover  is प्रयुक्त to  conceal cargo .
When the cover is pulled out , it keeps items out of the sun and provides extra security by keeping personal items   out of sight , as well as shielding the driver from view .
Twitter is an online social networking service and microblogging service that enables its users to send and  पढ़ा text-based संदेश of up to 140  characters , known as `` tweets '' .
Twitter was  निर्मित in कूच 2006 by जोकर dorsey  and by July , the social networking site was launched .
The service rapidly  gained विश्वव्यापी लोकप्रियता , साथ over 500 लाख पंजीकृत उपयोक्ता as of 2012  , generating over 340 million tweets daily and handling over 1.6 billion search queries per day .
Since its launch , Twitter has become one of the ten most visited websites on the Internet ,  और रै महरूम वर्णित  as `` the SMS of the Internet . ''
Unregistered  users  can read tweets , while registered users can post tweets through the website interface , SMS , or a range of apps for mobile devices .
Twitter Inc. is based in San Francisco , with additional servers and offices in New York City ,  बोस्टन ,  and San Antonio .
The Hangover is a 2009 American comedy film , co-produced and  निर्देशित by टॉड phillips और लिखा by jon  Lucas and Scott Moore .
It is the first film of The Hangover franchise .The film stars Bradley Cooper , Ed Helms , Zach Galifianakis , Heather Graham ,  जस्टिन bartha  , and Jeffrey Tambor .
The Hangover tells the story of Phil  wenneck , stu दाम और  Alan Garner , who travel to Las Vegas for a bachelor party to celebrate their friend Doug Billings ' impending marriage .
however ,  Phil , Stu and Alan have no memory of the previous night 's events and must find Doug before the wedding can take place .
Lucas and Moore wrote the script after executive  निर्माता क्रिस bender 's dost  disappeared and had a large bill after being sent to a strip club .
After Lucas and Moore sold it to the studio for $ 2 million , Philips and Jeremy Garelick rewrote the script to include a tiger as well as a subplot involving a baby and  a पुलिस क्रूजर , और भी सहित  boxer Mike Tyson .
Filming took place in  नेवाडा लिये  15 days , and during filming , the three main actors ( Cooper , Helms and Galifianakis ) formed a friendship .
The Hangover was released on June 5 , 2009 , becoming a  नाजुक और  commercial success .
It became the tenth-highest-grossing film   of 2009 , with a worldwide gross of over US $ 467 million .
Critics praised the film 's comedic  दृष्टिकोण लकिन criticized it लिये इसके  vulgarity .
The film won the Golden Globe  पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन गति  Picture – Musical or Comedy , and received multiple other accolades .
It is the tenth-highest-grossing film of 2009 in the world , as well as the second highest-grossing R-rated comedy ever in the United  राज्य , surpassing  a record previously held by Beverly Hills Cop for almost 25 years and later being surpassed by Ted in 2012 .
Out of all R-rated films , it is the third  highest-grossing  ever in the U.S. , behind only The Passion of the Christ and The Matrix Reloaded .
A sequel , The Hangover Part  ii , थी  released in 2011 , and a third and final film , The Hangover Part III , is set for release in 2013 .
Events  involving  meiosis , showing chromosomal crossover
Meiosis ( ) is a special type of cell  प्रभाग जरुरी  for sexual reproduction in eukaryotes .
the कोशिकाएं उत्पादित by meiosis  are gametes or spores .
In many organisms , including all animals and land plants ( but not some other groups such as fungi  ) , गैमीट हैं पुकारा शुक्राणु और अंडा कोशिकाएं  .
Whilst the process of  meiosis bears a क्रमांक of  similarities with the 'life-cycle ' cell division process of mitosis , it differs in two important respects:
the   chromosomes in meiosis undergo a recombination which shuffles the genes producing a different genetic combination in each gamete , compared with the co-existence of each of the two separate pairs of each chromosome ( one received from each parent ) in each cell which results from mitosis .
the outcome of meiosis is potentially four ( genetically unique ) haploid cells , compared with the two ( genetically identical ) diploid cells  उत्पादित इससे  mitosis .
Meiosis begins with one diploid cell containing two  नक़ल of प्रत्येक chromosome —one इससे  the organism 's mother and one from its father .
The cell divides twice ,  potentially  producing up to four haploid cells containing one copy of each chromosome .
( `` Potentially '' because in some cases , such as the formation of  oocytes in स्तनधारियों , तभी एक of the संभावित चार  haploid cells survives . )
In animals the haploid cell  resulting  from meiosis is a male or female gamete .
Each of the resulting chromosomes  in the gamete  cells is a unique mixture of maternal and paternal DNA , resulting in offspring that are genetically distinct from either parent .
This gives rise to genetic  विविधता in  sexually reproducing populations .
This genetic diversity can provide the variation of physical and behavioural attributes ( phenotypes ) upon which natural selection can act , but , as  वर्णित नीचे  in Section 6 , Origin and function of meiosis , the genetic diversity may be largely a by-product of the homologous recombination that is primarily employed for its DNA repair function during meiosis .
It is also noteworthy that  दौरान meiosis , विशिष्ट जीनों  are more highly transcribed , and these are called the meiome , the term used in functional genomics for the meiotic transcriptome .
Meiosis  is  a key feature for all sexually reproducing eukaryotes in which homologous chromosome pairing , synapse and recombination occur .
In addition to strong meiotic stage-specific expression of mRNA ( the meiome ) ,  however , वहीँ हैं भी pervasive translational नियंत्रण ( e.g  . selective usage of preformed mRNA ) , regulating the ultimate meiotic stage-specific protein expression of genes during meiosis .
Thus , both the meiome and translational controls determine the broad restructuring of meiotic  कोशिकाएं  needed to carry out meiosis .
Prior to the meiosis process the cell  's गुणसूत्रों हैं duplicated  by a round of DNA replication , creating from the maternal and paternal versions of each chromosome ( homologs ) two exact copies , sister chromatids , attached at the centromere region .
In the beginning of meiosis the maternal  और पैतृक  homologs pair to each other .
Then they typically exchange parts by homologous recombination leading to crossovers of DNA between  the मातृ और  paternal versions of the chromosome .
Spindle fibers bind to  the centromeres of प्रत्येक  pair of homologs and arrange the pairs at the spindle equator .
Then the fibers pull the recombined homologs  to  opposite poles of the cell .
As the chromosomes move away from the center the cell divides into two  बेटी कोशिकाएं , प्रत्येक containing a अगुणित क्रमांक  of chromosomes composed of two chromatids .
After the recombined  मातृ और पैतृक homologs have  separated into the two daughter cells , a second round of cell division occurs .
There meiosis ends as the two sister chromatids making up each homolog are  अलग  and move into one of the four resulting gamete cells .
Upon fertilization , for example when a sperm enters  an अंडा कोशिका  , two gamete cells produced by meiosis fuse .
The gamete from the mother and the  gamete इससे  the father each contribute one half of the set of chromosomes that make up the new offspring 's genome .
Meiosis uses many of the same mechanisms as mitosis , a type of cell division used  by eukaryotes जैसे पौधे और पशु  to split one cell into two identical daughter cells .
In all   plants and in many protists meiosis results in the formation of spores : haploid cells that can divide vegetatively without undergoing fertilization .
Boxing ( pugilism , prize fighting , the sweet science or in  यूनानी pygmachia ) is a martial आर्ट  and combat sport in which two people engage in a contest of strength , speed , reflexes , endurance and will by throwing punches with gloved hands .
Amateur boxing is an Olympic and Commonwealth sport and is a common fixture in most of the  प्रमुख अंतरराष्ट्रीय खेल  - it also has its own World Championships .
मुक्केबाज़ी  is supervised by a referee over a series of one- to three-minute intervals called rounds .
The result is decided when an opponent is deemed incapable to continue by a referee , is disqualified for breaking a rule , resigns by throwing in a towel , or is pronounced the winner or loser based on  the न्यायाधीशों  ' scorecards at the end of the contest .
The birth hour of boxing as  a खेल may be इसके  acceptance by the ancient Greeks as an Olympic game as early as 688 BC .
Boxing evolved from 16th- and 18th-century prizefights , largely in Great Britain , to the forerunner of modern boxing in the  mid-19th सदी , again initially  in Great Britain and later in the United States .
In 2004 ,  ईएसपीएन  ranked boxing as the most difficult sport in the world .
Agreement or concord happens  जब a शब्द परिवर्तन रूप  depending on the other words to which it relates .
it is an उदाहरण of inflection , और प्रायः involves बनाना the मान of कुछ व्याकरणिक श्रेणी ( ऐसे as लिंग or व्यक्ति ) `` सहमत '' between अलग शब्द or भाग  of the sentence .
लिये उदाहरण , in मानक  English , one may say I am or he is , but not `` I is '' or `` he am '' .
This is because the grammar of the language requires that the verb and its  विषय  agree in person .
The pronouns I and he are first and third person  क्रमशः , as हैं  the verb forms am and is .
The  क्रिया रूप  must be selected so that it has the same person as the subject .
The agreement based on overt grammatical  श्रेणी as ऊपर  is formal agreement , in contrast to notional agreement , which is based on meaning .
For instance , the phrase The United States is treated as singular for purposes of agreement ,  भी हालांकि it  is formally plural .
This is a  सूची  of places below mean sea level that are on land .
Places in tunnels , mines , basements , dug holes ( also with open sky ) , under water , under ice , or  मौजूदा temporarily as a परिणाम of ebbing  of sea tide etc . are not included .
All figures are in meters  नीचे समुद्र  level:
Debbie Macomber ( born  अक्तूबर 22 , 1948 in yakima , वॉशिंगटन ) is  a best-selling American author of over 150 romance novels and contemporary women 's fiction .
Over 140  लाख नक़ल of  her books are in print throughout the world , and four have become made-for-TV-movies .
Macomber was the inaugural winner of  the fan-voted quill पुरस्कार लिये रोमांस  in 2005 and has been awarded both a Romance Writers of America RITA and a lifetime achievement award by the Romance Writers of America .
Catonsville is a census-designated place ( CDP ) in  बाल्टीमोर काउंटी , मेरीलैंड  , United States .
The population was 41,567 at the  2010 जनसांख्यिकी  .
The community lies to the west of Baltimore  साथ  the city 's border .
catonsville  is the home of the University of Maryland , Baltimore County ( UMBC ) , a public research university with over 12,000 students .
A lawyer , according to Black 's Law  शब्दकोष , is `` a व्यक्ति  learned in the law ; as an attorney , counsel or solicitor ; a person who is practicing law . ''
Law is the system of rules of conduct established by the sovereign government of a  समाज to सही wrongs , maintain the स्थिरता  of political and social authority , and deliver justice .
Working as a lawyer involves the practical application of  अमूर्त विधिक theories और  knowledge to solve specific individualized problems , or to advance the interests of those who retain ( i.e. , hire ) lawyers to perform legal services .
The role of the lawyer varies  significantly  across legal jurisdictions , and so it can be treated here in only the most general terms .
Vector Marketing is the domestic sales arm of Cutco  निगम  , an Olean , New York based cutlery manufacturer .
The Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 ( FMLA ) is a United States federal law requiring covered employers to provide employees  job-protected  and unpaid leave for qualified medical and family reasons .
Qualified medical and family reasons include : personal or family illness , family military leave , pregnancy , adoption , or the foster care  अवस्थिति  of a child .
The FMLA is administered by  the मजदूरी  and Hour Division of the United States Department of Labor .
The bill was a major part of President Bill Clinton 's agenda in  उसके पहला  term .
President Clinton signed the bill into law on February 5 , 1993 ( ;  29  U.S.C . sec . 2601 ; 29 CFR 825 ) and it took effect on August 5 , 1993 , six months later .
The  fmla थी intended  `` to balance the demands of the workplace with the needs of families . ''
The Act allows eligible employees to take up to 12 work weeks of unpaid leave during any 12-month period to attend to the serious health condition of the employee , parent , spouse or child , or for  गर्भावस्था or परवाह  of a newborn child , or for adoption or foster care of a child .
In order to be eligible for FMLA leave , an employee must have been at the business at least 12 months , and worked at least 1,250 hours  over the पास्ट 12 महीने , और कार्य at a स्थान जहाँ the  company employs 50 or more employees within 75 miles .
The FMLA covers both public- and private-sector employees ,  लकिन  certain categories of employees are excluded , including elected officials and their personal staff members .
The Vietnam War ( ) was a Cold War -era  सैन्य  conflict that occurred in Vietnam , Laos , and Cambodia from 1 November 1955 to the fall of Saigon on 30 April 1975 .
This war followed the First Indochina War and was fought between North Vietnam , supported by its  कम्युनिस्ट allies  , and the government of South Vietnam , supported by the United States and other anti-communist countries .
The Viet Cong ( also known as the National Liberation Front , or NLF ) , a lightly armed South Vietnamese communist  आम सामने निर्देशित  by the North , largely fought a guerrilla war against anti-communist forces in the region .
The Vietnam People 's Army ( North Vietnamese  फौज ) सगाई  in a more conventional war , at times committing large units into battle .
U.S. and South Vietnamese forces relied on air superiority and overwhelming firepower to conduct search and destroy operations , involving ground forces ,  तोपखाने , और airstrikes  .
The U.S. government viewed involvement in the war as a way to prevent a  कम्युनिस्ट कब्ज़ा of दक्षिण वियतनाम as भाग of उनके wider  strategy of containment .
The North  वियतनामी  government and Viet Cong were fighting to reunify Vietnam under communist rule .
They viewed the conflict as a colonial war , fought initially  विरूद्ध फ़्रांस , समर्थित  by the U.S. , and later against South Vietnam , which it regarded as a U.S. puppet state .
American military advisors arrived in what was then French Indochina  शुरूआत in  1950 .
U.S. involvement escalated in the early 1960s , with troop levels   tripling in 1961 and tripling again in 1962 .
U.S. combat units were deployed   beginning in 1965 .
परिचालन spanned अंतरराष्ट्रीय  borders , with Laos and Cambodia heavily bombed .
अमरीकी भागीदारी  in the war peaked in 1968 , at the time of the Tet Offensive .
After  इस , u.S. मैदान शक्तियां  were gradually withdrawn as part of a policy known as Vietnamization .
Despite the Paris Peace Accords ,  हस्ताक्षरित by सब पार्टियों in जनवरी  1973 , fighting continued .
U.S. military involvement ended on 15 August 1973 as a result of the Case–Church Amendment  passed by the u.S. कॉंग्रेस .
The capture of Saigon by the Vietnam People 's  फौज in अप्रैल 1975 चिह्नित  the end of the war , and North and South Vietnam were reunified the following year .
The war exacted a huge human  लागत in शर्तें of fatalities  ( see Vietnam War casualties ) .
Estimates of the  क्रमांक of वियतनामी सैनिको  and civilians killed vary from 800,000 to 3.1 million .
Some 200,000–300,000 Cambodians , 20,000–200,000 Laotians , and 58,220 U.S.  सेवा सदस्यों भी died in the विरोध  .
Cleveland Volcano in the Aleutian Islands of Alaska photographed from the International Space  स्टेशन , may 2006  .
Ash plumes reached a  ऊँचाई of 19 km दौरान  the climactic eruption at Mount Pinatubo , Philippines in 1991 .
A  ज्वालामुखी is  an opening , or rupture , in a planet 's surface or crust , which allows hot magma , volcanic ash and gases to escape from the magma chamber below the surface .
Volcanoes are generally found where  tectonic  plates are diverging or converging .
A mid-oceanic ridge , for example the Mid-Atlantic Ridge , has examples of volcanoes caused by divergent tectonic plates pulling apart ; the Pacific Ring of Fire has examples of  ज्वालामुखी caused by अभिसारी tectonic प्लेटों coming  together .
By contrast , volcanoes are usually not  निर्मित जहाँ  two tectonic plates slide past one another .
Volcanoes can also form where there is stretching and thinning of the Earth 's crust in the interiors of plates , e.g. ,  in the ईस्ट अफ़्रीकी दरार , the  Wells Gray-Clearwater volcanic field and the Rio Grande Rift in North America .
This type of volcanism falls under the  छतरियाँ of `` थाली  hypothesis '' volcanism .
Volcanism away from plate  सीमाएँ रै भी  been explained as mantle plumes .
These so-called `` hotspots `` , for example Hawaii , are postulated to arise from upwelling diapirs  साथ मैग्मा इससे the core–mantle  boundary , 3,000 km deep in the Earth .
Erupting volcanoes can pose many  जोखिमों , नहीं तभी in the  immediate vicinity of the eruption .
Volcanic ash can be a threat to aircraft , in particular those with jet engines where  राख अणु  can be melted by the high operating temperature .
Large eruptions can affect temperature as ash and droplets of sulfuric acid obscure the sun and  कूल the धरती 's निम्नतर माहौल  or troposphere ; however , they also absorb heat radiated up from the Earth , thereby warming the stratosphere .
Historically , so-called  volcanic  winters have caused catastrophic famines .
A  गहन pothole  on New York City 's Second Avenue
A pothole ( sometimes called a kettle  और ज्ञात in भाग of the पश्चिमी  United States as a chuckhole ) is a type of disruption in the surface of a roadway where a portion of the road material has broken away , leaving a hole .
Renal cell carcinoma ( RCC , also known as hypernephroma ) is a kidney cancer that originates  in the अस्तर of  the proximal convoluted tubule , the very small tubes in the kidney that transport GF ( glomerular filtrate ) from the glomerulus to the descending limb of the nephron .
RCC is the most common type of kidney cancer in  वयस्कों , जिम्मेदार  for approximately 80 % of cases .
It is also  ज्ञात to be the सबसे lethal  of all the genitourinary tumors .
Initial treatment is most commonly a radical or  आंशिक nephrectomy और  remains the mainstay of curative treatment .
Where the tumor is confined to the  renal parenchyma , the  5-year survival rate is 60-70 % , but this is lowered considerably where metastases have spread .
It is relatively  resistant to विकिरण चिकित्सा  and chemotherapy , although some cases respond to immunotherapy .
Targeted cancer  therapies ऐसे as sunitinib , temsirolimus  , bevacizumab , interferon-alpha , and sorafenib have improved the outlook for RCC .
Estée Lauder Companies , Inc. is  a निर्माता  and marketer of prestige skincare , makeup , fragrance and hair care products .
The company has its headquarters in  midtown  Manhattan , New York City .
The peritoneum ( ) is the serous membrane that forms the lining of the abdominal cavity or the  coelom —it कवर सबसे of the intra-abdominal ( or coelomic ) organs—in  amniotes and some invertebrates ( annelids , for instance ) .
It is composed of a layer of mesothelium  समर्थित  by a thin layer of connective tissue .
The peritoneum both  supports the abdominal  organs and serves as a conduit for their blood and lymph vessels and nerves .
The abdominal cavity ( the  स्पेस bounded by the vertebrae , abdominal  muscles , diaphragm and pelvic floor ) should not be confused with the intraperitoneal space ( located within the abdominal cavity , but wrapped in peritoneum ) .
The structures within the intraperitoneal space are called `` intraperitoneal '' ( e.g . the stomach ) , the structures in the abdominal cavity that are located behind the intraperitoneal space are called `` retroperitoneal `` ( e.g . the kidneys ) , and those structures below  the intraperitoneal स्पेस हैं पुकारा `` subperitoneal '' or `` infraperitoneal  '' ( e.g . the bladder ) .
Modern 2.5 '' SSD used in consumer laptops and  डेस्कटॉप  computers .
DDR SDRAM  आधारित ssd  .
Max  और  .
PCI attached IO  त्वरक  SSD
PCI-E , DRAM , and  नन्द आधारित  SSD .
It uses an external  शक्ति सप्लाई  to make the DRAM non-volatile .
A solid-state drive ( SSD ) ( also known as a  solid-state डिस्क or  electronic disk , though it contains no actual `` disk '' of any kind ) is a data storage device using integrated circuit assemblies as memory to store data persistently .
SSD technology uses electronic interfaces  संगत साथ परंपरागत ब्लाक input/output  ( I/O ) hard disk drives .
SSDs have no moving mechanical components , which distinguish them from traditional electromechanical magnetic disks such as hard disk drives (  hdds ) or फ्लॉपी डिस्क  , which contain spinning disks and movable read/write heads .
Compared with electromechanical disks , SSDs  हैं typically  less susceptible to physical shock , much quieter , have lower access time , and less latency .
However , while the price of SSDs has continued to decline in 2012 , SSDs are  स्टिल परिचय 7 to 8 टाइम्स अधिक महंगी प्रति ईकाई of  storage than HDDs .
Many SSDs use I/O interfaces developed for hard disk drives , thus permitting simple replacement in  आम अनुप्रयोग  .
, most SSDs use  nand-based फ्लैश  memory , which retains data without power .
For applications requiring fast access , but not necessarily data  हठ बाद शक्ति घाटा , ssds  may be constructed from random-access memory ( RAM ) .
Such devices may employ separate power sources , such as batteries , to maintain data after power  घाटा  .
Hybrid drives or solid state hybrid drives ( SSHD ) combine the features of SSDs and HDDs in the same  ईकाई , containing  a large hard disk drive and an SSD cache to improve performance of frequently accessed data .
These devices may  प्रस्ताव  near-SSD performance for many applications .
Salmon roe ( left ) and sturgeon caviar ( right ) served with mother of pearl caviar  spoons  to avoid tainting the taste of the caviar .
Ossetra caviar , salmon creme fraiche ,  आलू shallot croquette  , basil oil , egg whites and yolks
Caviar , according to the Food and Agriculture  संगठन , is a उत्पाद  made from salt-cured fish-eggs of the Acipenseridae family .
The roe can be `` fresh '' ( non-pasteurized ) or pasteurized , with  pasteurization reducing  its culinary and economic value .
Traditionally the term caviar refers only  to roe इससे  wild sturgeon in the Caspian and Black Seas ( Beluga , Ossetra and Sevruga caviars ) .
Depending on the country , caviar may also be used to describe the roe of other fish such as salmon ,  steelhead , ट्राउट , lumpfish , whitefish  , and other species of sturgeon .
Caviar is considered a luxury delicacy  और is खाया as  a garnish or a spread .
In 2012 , caviar sold for $ 2,500 per pound , or $ 3,000 to $ 5,500  प्रति किलो .
The SEC Network is a television syndication network  featuring सजीव प्रसारण of कॉलेज फ़ुटबॉल  and basketball events from the Southeastern Conference .
It is owned and operated by ESPN  प्लस और is दिखाया in अधिक  than 50 percent of households in the United States , mostly Southeastern United States markets .
The SEC Network typically airs in the noon eastern slot that was  पूर्व घर to the raycom खेल  SEC game of the week .
Games are shown locally on broadcast stations  , क्षेत्रीय खेल संजाल , as खूब  as on ESPN GamePlan , ESPN Full Court , and ESPN3.com .
the सेक संजाल is भी उपलब्धियाँ in कनाडा via अटलांटा 's wpch-tv .
The SEC Network uses the  वही on-screen  graphics currently used by ESPN on ABC , a version of ESPN 's graphics package .
SEC Network 's football programming still uses a title safe area because most of its affiliates do not Letterbox their Standard Definition  फ़ीड्स , जबकि ईएसपीएन 's  television networks have allowed their graphics to abandon the title safe , but letterbox for SD viewers .
Starting with the SEC 2012 Basketball season , SEC Network 's graphics have been converted  to  a 16:9 Widescreen-only format .
This is also being used for the 2013 Basketball season , but had still adapted the former 4:3-safe  ग्राफिक्स स्वरूप  for the 2012 SEC football season .
The 1990s , pronounced  और भी  known as `` the Nineteen-Nineties '' or abbreviated as `` the Nineties '' or `` the '90s '' , was a decade that began on January 1 , 1990 , and ended on December 31 , 1999 .
It  थी the 10th और पिछला  decade of the 20th century and the 100th and last decade of the 2nd millennium .
The decade is best known for the end of the Cold War at the beginning of the decade and the  विस्तार और व्यावसायीकरण  of the Internet during the second half of the decade .
In much of the West the 1990s is remembered as a period of unprecedented peace and  समृद्धि , हालांकि अनेक भाग of the so-called  Third World faced various problems including genocide , AIDS and new or continuing ethnic tensions and civil wars .
Culturally  बोलना  the decade was characterized by the rise of multiculturalism and alternative media .
Movements such as grunge , the rave scene and hip hop spread around the world to young people during the  दशक , aided  by then-new technology such as cable television and the Internet .
A combination of factors , including the mass mobilization of capital markets through neoliberalism , the beginning of the widespread proliferation of new media such as the Internet , and the dissolution of the  सोवियत संघ led to a realignment और reconsolidation  of economic and political power across the world , and within countries .
Income inequality among  देशों in the संसार रोज़  sharply between the 1980s and the mid-1990s , before levelling off and then falling after 2000 .
New ethnic conflicts emerged in Africa , the Balkans and the   Caucasus , the former two which led to the Rwandan genocide and Bosnian genocide , respectively .
The United States began its current  सैन्य occupation of the  Middle East during the summer of 1990 with Desert Shield after it cut off a large portion of the world 's petroleum supply .
Signs of any resolution of tensions between Israel and the Arab  संसार remained elusive , हालांकि the आयरिश परेशानियों आए to  a standstill in 1998 with the Good Friday Agreement after 30 years of violence .
The gray wolf or grey  भेड़िया ( canis lupus ) is a प्रजाति of canid  native to the wilderness and remote areas of North America , Eurasia , and North Africa .
It is the largest member of  इसके परिवार  , with males averaging , and females .
It is similar in general appearance and proportions to a German shepherd , or sled dog  , लकिन रै a larger सिर  , narrower chest , longer legs , straighter tail and bigger paws .
Its winter fur is long and bushy , and predominantly a mottled gray in  रंग  , although nearly pure white , red , or brown to black also occur .
Within the genus Canis , the gray wolf represents a more specialised and progressive form than its smaller cousins ( the coyote and golden jackal ) , as demonstrated by its  morphological adaptations to शिकार विशाल शिकार , इसके  more gregarious nature and its highly advanced expressive behavior .
It is a social animal , travelling in nuclear families consisting of a  पन्द्रहवें जोड़ी , accompanied  by the pair 's adult offspring .
The gray wolf is typically an apex  परभक्षी throughout इसके दायरा  , with only humans and tigers posing a serious threat to it .
It feeds  primarily on विशाल  ungulates , though it also eats smaller animals , livestock , carrion , and garbage .
The gray wolf is one of the world 's most well researched animals , with probably more books written about it than  कोई अन्य  wildlife species .
It has a long history of association with humans , having been despised and hunted in most agricultural communities due to its attacks on livestock ,  जबकि  conversely being respected by some Native American tribes .
It is the sole ancestor of the dog   , which was first domesticated in the Middle East .
Although the fear of  wolves is  prevalent in many human societies , the majority of recorded attacks on people have been attributed to animals suffering from rabies .
Non-rabid wolves have  attacked और मारे लोगों , मुख्यतः  children , but this is unusual , as wolves are relatively few , live away from people , and have been taught to fear humans by hunters and shepherds .
Hunting and trapping has reduced the species ' range to , though its still relatively widespread range and stable population means that the species is not threatened at a global level , and is therefore classified by the IUCN as  तनिक चिंता  .
The Roman  साम्राज्य ( ) थी the post- रिपब्लिकन काल of the प्राचीन  Roman civilization , characterised by an autocratic form of government and large territorial holdings around the Mediterranean in Europe , Africa , and Asia .
The  500-year-old  Roman Republic , which preceded it , had been destabilized through a series of civil wars .
Several events marked the transition from Republic to Empire , including Julius Caesar 's appointment as perpetual dictator ( 44 BC ) ; the Battle of Actium ( 31 BC ) ; and the granting of the honorific Augustus to Octavian by  the Roman  Senate ( 27 BC ) .
The first two  सदियां of the साम्राज्य यहूद a  period of unprecedented stability and prosperity known as the Pax Romana ( `` Roman Peace '' ) .
It reached its greatest  expanse  during the reign of Trajan ( 98–117 AD ) .
In the 3rd century , the Empire underwent a crisis that threatened its existence , but was reunified and stabilized under the emperors  aurelian  and Diocletian .
Christians rose to power in the 4th century , during which time a system of dual rule was developed   in the Latin West and Greek East .
After the collapse of central government in the West in the 5th century  , the पूर्वी  half continued as what would later be known as the Byzantine Empire .
Because of the Empire 's vast extent and long endurance , the institutions and culture of Rome had a profound and lasting influence on the  विकास of भाषा , धर्म , वास्तुकला , दर्शनशास्त्र ,  law , and forms of government in the territory it governed , particularly Europe , and by means of European expansionism throughout the modern world .
Education in the United States is mainly provided by the public sector , with control and funding coming from three levels :  लोकल  , state , and federal , in that order .
Child education is compulsory , and there are also a large number and wide variety of higher education  संस्थानों throughout the देश कि  one can choose to attend , both publicly and privately administered .
Public education is  universally  available .
School curricula , funding , teaching , employment , and other policies are set  through locally निर्वाचित स्कूल फलक  with jurisdiction over school districts with many directives from state legislatures .
School districts are usually separate  इससे अन्य लोकल jurisdictions  , with independent officials and budgets .
Educational standards and standardized testing decisions are usually made by  राज्य सरकारें  .
the आयु  for compulsory education vary by state .
It begins from ages five to eight and ends from ages  चौदह to  eighteen .
Compulsory education requirements can generally be satisfied by educating children in public schools , state-certified  निजी  schools , or an approved home school program .
In most public and private schools , education is divided into three levels : elementary school , middle school ( sometimes called junior high school ) , and  ऊँची स्कूल ( sometimes referred to  as secondary education ) .
In  लगभग सब स्कूलों at ये स्तर , children हैं  divided by age groups into grades , ranging from kindergarten ( followed by first grade ) for the youngest children in elementary school , up to twelfth grade , the final year of high school .
The exact age range of students in these grade  स्तर varies थोड़ा  from area to area .
Post-secondary education , better known as `` college `` in the United States  ,  is generally governed separately from the elementary and high school system , and is described in a separate section below .
Government supported , free public schools for all started being established after the revolution , and expanded in the 19th century , as the results of efforts of men like Horace Mann and Booker  T.  Washington .
By 1870 , all states had free  elementary  schools , albeit only in urban centers .
As the 20th century drew nearer , states started  गुजर कानून to मेक  schooling compulsory , and by 1910 , 72 percent of children attended school .
Private schools continued to spread during this time , as  खूब as कॉलेजों and—in the ग्रामीण centers—  land grant colleges .
the साल of 1910 भी देखी the पहला सच्चा ऊँची स्कूलों .
During the rest of the 20th century  , शैक्षणिक  efforts centered on reducing the inequality of the schooling system .
The landmark Supreme Court case Brown v. Board of Education made the desegregation of  elementary और ऊँची स्कूलों a नेशनल  priority , while the Pell Grant program helped poor minorities gain access to college .
Special education was made into federal  विधि in 1975  .
the elementary और  Secondary Education Act of 1965 made standardized testing a requirement , and in 1983 , a commission was established to evaluate their results and propose a course of action .
The resulting No Child Left Behind Act of 2001 was  विवादास्पद  and its goals proved to be unrealistic .
A commission established in 2006 evaluated higher education , but its recommendations have yet to  be fully  implemented .
Paul Bragg ( February 6 , 1895 – December 7 , 1976 ) , nutritionist , was a pioneer in  america’s  wellness movement .
Health spending per capita , in $ US PPP-adjusted , with the US and Canada  compared amongst अन्य पहला संसार  nations .
Comparison of the health care systems in Canada and the United States are often made by government , public  स्वास्थ्य और पब्लिक  policy analysts .
The two countries had similar health care systems before Canada reformed its  प्रणाली in  the 1960s and 1970s .
The  संयुक्त राज्य  spends much more money on health care than Canada , on both a per-capita basis and as a percentage of GDP .
In 2006 , per-capita spending for health care in Canada was US $ 3,678 ;  in  the U.S. , US $ 6,714 .
The U.S. spent  15.3 % of जीडीपी on स्वास्थ्य परवाह in  that year ; Canada spent 10.0 % .
In 2006 ,  70 % of स्वास्थ्य परवाह  spending in Canada was financed by government , versus 46 % in the United States .
Total government spending per capita in the U.S. on health care was 23 % higher than Canadian government spending , and U.S. government expenditure on health care was just under 83 % of total Canadian  बिता ( पब्लिक  and private ) though these statistics do n't take into account population differences .
Studies have come to different conclusions about the result of this  disparity  in spending .
A 2007 review of all studies comparing health outcomes in Canada and the US in a Canadian peer-reviewed medical journal found that `` health outcomes may be superior in patients cared for in  कनाडा बनाम the संयुक्त राज्य , लकिन मतभेद  are not consistent . ''
जीवन प्रत्याशा  is longer in Canada , and its infant mortality rate is lower than that of the U.S. , but there is debate about the underlying causes of these differences .
One commonly cited comparison , the 2000 World Health Organization 's ratings of `` overall health service performance '' , which used a `` composite measure of achievement in the level of health , the distribution of health , the level of  responsiveness और निष्पक्षता of वित्तीय  contribution '' , ranked Canada 30th and the US 37th among 191 member nations .
This study rated the  us `` responsiveness '' ,  or quality of service for individuals receiving treatment , as 1st , compared with 7th for Canada .
While the average life expectancy for Canadians was 80.34 years compared with 78.6 years for residents of the US , simply comparing the life expectancy of two groups with different racial makeup and different obesity rates is likely not an  प्रभावी  way of determining which healthcare system is superior .
The WHO 's study methods were  criticized  by some analyses .
Although there is a measure of consensus  that life-expectancy  and infant mortality mark the most reliable ways to compare nation-wide health care , assuming the population makeup is similar , a recent report by the Congressional Research Service carefully summarizes some recent data and notes the `` difficult research issues '' facing international comparisons .
The sound source has now broken through the sound speed barrier , and is traveling at  1.4 टाइम्स the  speed of sound , ( Mach 1.4 ) .
Since the source is moving  तेज़ ( साथ a गति ) than the  sound waves it creates , it actually leads the advancing wavefront .
The sound source  होगा pass by a stationary  observer ( with a speed ) before the observer actually hears the sound it creates .
As a result , an  निरीक्षक in सामने of the सोर्स  will detect
and an observer  पीछे the  source .
A sonic  बूम उत्पादित  by an aircraft moving at M=2.92 , calculated from the cone angle of 20 degrees .
An observer hears the boom when the shock  वेव , on the किनारे  of the cone , crosses his or her location .
mach कोन  angle
A sonic boom is the sound associated with the shock  लहरें निर्मित by an ऑब्जेक्ट  traveling through the air faster than the speed of sound .
Sonic booms generate enormous amounts of sound energy ,  sounding much जैसे an विस्फोट  .
The crack of a supersonic bullet  गुजर ओवरहेड is an उदाहरण  of a sonic boom in miniature .
The Tonight Show with Jay Leno is an American late-night talk show  hosted by  Jay Leno that initially aired from May 25 , 1992 to May 29 , 2009 , and resumed production on March 1 , 2010 .
The fourth incarnation of the Tonight Show franchise  बना इसके डेब्यू on may 25 , 1992  , three days following Johnny Carson 's retirement as host of the program .
The program originates from NBC Studios in Burbank , California , and is broadcast Monday through Friday at 11:35 PM in the  पूर्वी और प्रशांत  time zones ( 10:35 PM Central / Mountain time ) .
Unlike Carson or his predecessor Jack Paar , Leno  तभी एकबार utilized  a guest host , preferring to host the series by himself .
On April 26 , 1999 , the show began broadcasting in 1080i HDTV , becoming the first American nightly talk  दिखाएँ to be शॉट in ऊँची परिभाषा .
The show is shot in 16:9  पहलू  ratio .
The series , which followed the same basic format as that of his predecessors ( an opening monologue followed by comedy routines , interviews and performances ) , ran  until  May 29 , 2009 , after which Leno was succeeded by Conan O'Brien .
NBC signed Leno to a  नई  deal for a nightly talk show in the 10:00 pm ET timeslot .
The primetime series , titled The Jay Leno Show ,  debuted on  September 14 , 2009 , following a similar format to the Leno incarnation of Tonight .
Neither O'Brien 's version of the program , which premiered June 1 , 2009 , nor   The Jay Leno Show generated the ratings that NBC had expected .
The  संजाल decided to मूव a सघन 30-minute संस्करण of लीनो 's दिखाएँ to o'brien 's समय स्लॉट , और o'brien 's tonight दिखाएँ a half-hour बाद .
This decision met with opposition from O'Brien  ,  whose stint on The Tonight Show ended January 22 , 2010 , after which he began his own talk show on TBS .
The Tonight Show with Jay Leno then began its second and current incarnation , the sixth of the  मताधिकार , on कूच  1 , 2010 .
RFID  चिप अगला  to a grain of rice .
This chip contains a radio-frequency electromagnetic field coil that modulates an external magnetic field to  ट्रांसफ़र a coded पहचान क्रमांक जब queried by a रीडर  device .
This small type is incorporated in consumer products , and implanted in pets ,  लिये पहचान  purposes .
Radio-frequency identification ( RFID ) is the wireless non-contact use of radio-frequency  इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक फ़ील्ड to ट्रांसफ़र आंकड़ा  , for the purposes of automatically identifying and tracking tags attached to objects .
the टैग contain  electronically stored information .
कुछ टैग हैं  powered and read at short ranges ( a few meters ) via magnetic fields ( electromagnetic induction ) .
Others use a local power source such as a battery , or else have no battery but collect energy  इससे the interrogating em फ़ील्ड , और तब  act as a passive transponder to emit microwaves or UHF radio waves ( i.e. , electromagnetic radiation at high frequencies ) .
Battery powered tags may operate at  सैंकड़ों of मीटर  .
Unlike a bar code , the tag does not necessarily need to be within  लकीर of sight of the रीडर  , and may be embedded in the tracked object .
RFID tags are   used in many industries .
An RFID tag attached to an  ऑटोमोबाइल दौरान  production can be used to track its progress through the assembly line .
Pharmaceuticals can be tracked through  warehouses  .
Livestock and pets may have tags injected , allowing positive identification of the  एनिमल  .
Since RFID tags can be attached to clothing , possessions , or even implanted within people , the possibility of  पढना personally-linked सूचना बगैर  consent has raised privacy concerns .
Id , ego and super-ego are the three parts of the psychic apparatus defined in Sigmund Freud 's  संरचनात्मक मॉडल of the psyche ; वे हैं the  three theoretical constructs in terms of whose activity and interaction mental life is described .
According to this model of the psyche , the id is the set of uncoordinated instinctual trends ; the super-ego plays the critical and  moralizing भूमिका ; और the अहंकार is  the organized , realistic part that mediates between the desires of the id and the super-ego .
the  super-ego can stop you from doing certain things that your id may want you to do .
Even though the model is structural and makes reference to an apparatus , the id  , अहंकार और super-ego हैं कृत्यों of the दिमाग बल्कि than  parts of the brain and do not correspond one-to-one with actual somatic structures of the kind dealt with by neuroscience .
The concepts themselves arose at a late stage in the development of Freud 's thought : the `` structural model '' ( which succeeded his `` economic model '' and  `` topographical  model '' ) was first discussed in his 1920 essay `` Beyond the Pleasure Principle `` and was formalized and elaborated upon three years later in his `` The Ego and the Id `` .
Freud 's proposal was influenced by the ambiguity of the term ``  बेहोश `` और  its many conflicting uses .
Air Force  rotc  emblem
The Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps ( AFROTC ) is one of the three primary commissioning sources for officers in the United States Air Force , the other  दो होने the  United States Air Force Academy ( USAFA ) and Air Force Officer Training School ( OTS ) .
A  अधीनस्थ कमांड of the एयर विश्वविद्यालयों भीतर the एयर शिक्षा और प्रशिक्षण  Command ( AETC ) , AFROTC is aligned under the Jeanne M. Holm Center for Officer Accessions and Citizen Development at Maxwell AFB , Alabama .
The Holm Center , formerly known as the Air Force Officer Accession and Training Schools ( AFOATS ) , retains direct  जिम्मेदारी लिये दोनो afrotc  and OTS .
AFROTC is the largest and oldest source of  commissioned अधिकारियों लिये  the U.S. Air Force .
afrotc 's  stated mission is to produce quality leaders for the U.S. Air Force .
AFROTC units are located on 144 college and  विश्वविद्यालयों campuses  with 984 additional institutions of higher learning participating in cross-town agreements that allow their students to attend AFROTC classes at a nearby `` host '' college or university .
According to AFOATS HQ , in 2006 , AFROTC  commissioned 2,083 यूएसएएफ दूसरी lieutenants , साथ afrotc  enrollment ranging from 23,605 in 1985 to 10,231 in 1993 , and around 13,000 enrolled today .
AFROTC units at colleges and universities are called `` detachments , '' and are typically headed by an active duty USAF officer in  the रैंक of कर्नल or लेफ्टिनेंट  colonel who functions as both the Detachment Commander for USAF purposes and with the nominal title of Professor of Aerospace Studies ( PAS ) within the institution 's academic community .
Most colleges and universities will designate the AFROTC detachment as the Department  of  Aerospace Studies .
The PAS is assisted by three to four Assistant Professors of Aerospace Studies  ( apas ) , सब क्रियाशील ड्यूटी यूएसएएफ  officers in the ranks of major or captain .
Three USAF non-commissioned officers and one senior non-commissioned officer will typically provide  सैन्य प्रशासनिक  support and are often augmented by one to two civilian staff support employees of the academic institution .
Within AFROTC detachments , the students ( referred to as `` cadets '' ) are organized into wings , groups ,  squadrons , और फ़्लाइट , mirroring  the USAF functional wing structure .
The AFROTC detachment 's cadet wing or cadet group is separated into two divisions : the General Military Course ( GMC )  consisting of the पहला दो सालो of प्रशिक्षण ,  and the Professional Officer Course ( POC ) consisting of the last two years of training .
The AFROTC program is also divided into two  प्रशिक्षण कृत्यों : the  Academic Classroom Program ( Aerospace Studies classes ) and Cadet Activities ( i.e. , Leadership Laboratory , Physical Training , and other training ) .
Paper density ( also known as basis weight and grammage ) is a term used in the pulp and paper  उद्योग और भी लिये कपड़ा उद्योग  to denote a measure of mass of the product per unit of area for a type of fabric , paper or paperboard .
The term `` density '' is not used in its traditional  भाव of द्रव्यमान प्रति ईकाई  volume .
`` Paper density ''   , rather , is a measure of the area density .
Paper products that let little or no light pass through ( e.g . poster board ) are considered  घना  or heavy .
Paper products that  allow कुछ लाइट to pass through (  e.g . tissue paper ) are considered lightweight .
In the pulp and paper industry , it is common to set a commercial  पेपर यंत्र to उपज पेपर  to a target paper density .
Paper density can also be used to distinguish paper from paperboard as the latter  प्रायः रै  a grammage greater than 134 g/m2 .
Two ways  of  expressing paper density are commonly used:
Expressed  in गामा प्रति वर्गाकार मीटर  ( g/m2 ) , paper density is also known as grammage .
This  is the माप प्रयुक्त  in most parts of the world .
Expressed in terms of the mass ( expressed as weight ) per number   of sheets , it is known as basis weight .
The convention used in the United States and a few other countries using US paper sizes is pounds of a ream of  500 ( or in कुछ मामले 1000 ) चादरें of a  given ( raw , still uncut ) basis size .
Japanese paper is expressed as the  वज़न in kg of  1000 sheets .
Candace Nicole Parker ( born  अप्रैल 19 , 1986 ) is an अमरीकी  basketball player for the WNBA 's Los Angeles Sparks and UMMC Ekaterinburg of Russia .
She is the younger sister of NBA player  एंथोनी  Parker .
She attended the University  of टेनेसी और थी  drafted by the Sparks in 2008 .
She may  be बेहतरीन ज्ञात लिये होने the पहला स्त्री  to dunk in an NCAA tournament game and the first woman to dunk twice in a college game—she set both milestones as a redshirt freshman on March 19 , 2006 .
She also became only the second player  to डंक  in a WNBA game on June 22 , 2008 .
A versatile player , she is  मुख्यतः a आगे ,  but was listed on Tennessee 's roster as a forward , center , and guard .
She was a starter on the Lady Vols  बास्केट  team , winners of the 2007 and 2008 NCAA championships .
Parker won the 2009  निकलोडियन बच्चे  ' Choice award as the favorite female athlete in the sports category .
And she was a guest  स्टार on  Figure It Out .
A food  मार्गदर्शिका पिरामिड is a पिरामिड  shaped guide of healthy foods divided into sections to show the recommended intake for each food group .
the पहला  food pyramid was published in Sweden in 1974 .
The most widely  ज्ञात खाना पिरामिड थी introduced  by the United States Department of Agriculture in the year 1992 , was updated in 2005 , and then replaced in 2011 .
Over 25 other countries and organisations  have भी प्रकाशित  food pyramids .
Hans Christian Andersen ( ; often referred to in Scandinavia as H. C. Andersen ; April 2 , 1805August 4  , 1875 ) थी a डैनिश  author and poet .
Although a prolific writer of plays , travelogues , novels , and poems , Andersen is best remembered for his fairy  किस्से , a साहित्यिक  genre he so mastered that he himself has become as mythical as the tales he wrote .
Andersen 's popularity is not limited to children ; his stories—called , or `` fantastic tales '' —express  विषयवस्तु कि transcend आयु और  nationality .
During his lifetime he was acclaimed for having delighted children worldwide and was feted  by  royalty .
Andersen 's fairy tales , which have been translated into more than 125 languages , have become culturally embedded in the West 's collective consciousness , readily  accessible to children , लकिन पेश lessons of पुण्य और  resilience in the face of adversity for mature readers as well .
They have inspired motion pictures , plays  , नाटिकाओं  , and animated films .
Two  आंकड़े locking आँखें in  Caravaggio 's The Fortune Teller
नजर सम्पर्क occurs जब `` दो लोगों dekh at प्रत्येक अन्य 's आँखें at the वही समय .  ''
In human beings , eye contact is a form of nonverbal communication and is thought to have a large influence on social  बर्ताव  .
Coined in the early to mid-1960s , the  पद रै आइये in the वेस्ट to  often define the act as a meaningful and important sign of confidence and social communication .
The  कस्टम और significance  of eye contact vary widely between cultures , with religious and social differences often altering its meaning greatly .
The study of eye contact is  sometimes  known as oculesics .
Bed bugs are  parasitic  insects of the cimicid family that feed exclusively on blood .
The term most commonly refers to members of the genus Cimex  of जिससे cimex lectularius , the आम bed कीड़ा , is the बेहतरीन ज्ञात as it prefers to फीड on  human blood although other Cimex species are specialized to other animals , e.g. , bat bugs , C. pipistrelli ( Europe ) , C. pilosellus ( western US ) , and C. adjunctus ( entire eastern US ) .
The name of the `` bed bug '' is derived from the preferred habitat of Cimex lectularius : warm houses and   especially nearby or inside of beds and bedding or other sleep areas .
Bed bugs are  मुख्यतः  active at night , but are not exclusively nocturnal .
They  प्रायः फीड on उनके  hosts without being noticed .
A number   of adverse health effects may result from bed bug bites , including skin rashes , psychological effects , and allergic symptoms .
Diagnosis involves both finding bed bugs and the  occurrence of संगत लक्षण  .
Bed bugs have been  ज्ञात as इंसान परजीवी  for thousands of years .
At a point in the early 1940s , they were  ज़्यादातर eradicated  in the developed world , but have increased in prevalence since 1995 .
Because  infestation  of human habitats has been on the increase , bed bug bites and related conditions have been on the rise as well .
The Book of Isaiah ( ) is the first of  the latter नबियों  in the Hebrew Bible , preceding Ezekiel , Jeremiah and the Book of the Twelve .
( The order of the  subsequent किताबे  differs somewhat in the Christian Old Testament ) .
The first 39 chapters prophesy doom for a sinful Judah and for all the nations of the world that oppose God , while the last 27 prophesy the restoration of the nation of Israel and a new creation in God 's glorious future kingdom ; this section  शामिल the गीतों of the कष्ट नौकर , चार पृथक passages referring to  the nation of Israel , interpreted by Christians as prefiguring the coming of Jesus Christ .
Tradition ascribes authorship of the book to Isaiah  बेटे of amoz , लकिन अभी  scholars widely agree that the book is the work of three different authors - few scholars deny this view , and those that do , do so for theological reasons .
The first , termed Proto-Isaiah ( chapters  1–39 ) , contains the शब्द of  the 8th-century BCE prophet with 7th-century BCE expansions ; the second , Deutero-Isaiah ( chapters 40–55 ) , is the work of a 6th-century BCE author writing near the end of the Babylonian captivity ; and the third , the poetic Trito-Isaiah ( chapters 56–66 ) , was composed in Jerusalem shortly after the return from exile , probably by multiple authors .
ऑरेगॉन राज्य विश्वविद्यालयों ( osu  ) is a coeducational , public research university located in Corvallis , Oregon , United States .
The university offers undergraduate , graduate and doctoral degrees and a multitude of  शोध अवसर  .
There are more than 200 academic degree programs offered through the  विश्वविद्यालयों  .
OSU 's programs in microbiology , nuclear engineering  , पारिस्थितिकी  , forestry , public health , biochemistry , zoology , oceanography , food science and pharmacy are recognized nationally as top tier programs .
The OSU 's liberal arts programs have also grown significantly and the department is  माना a `` cornerstone ''  of the institution .
More than  200,000 लोगों have  attended OSU since its founding .
The Carnegie Foundation classifies Oregon State University  as भाग of इसके शीर्ष टियर  of research institutions .
As of  2008 , osu  is one of only seventy-three land-grant universities .
The school is also recognized as a sea-grant , space-grant and sun-grant  institution ,  making it one of only two US institutions to retain all four designations and the only public university to do so ( Cornell is the only other with similar designations ) .
As one of the two flagship universities of the Oregon University System , OSU receives more funding for research , annually , than all other public higher  शिक्षा संस्थानों  in Oregon combined .
Female ejaculation is  the expulsion of द्रव  by human females from the paraurethral ducts through and around the female urethra during or before an orgasm .
it is भी ज्ञात colloquially  as gushing or squirting , although these are considered to be different phenomena in some research publications .
The exact source and nature of the fluid continue to be a topic of debate among medical professionals , which is also related to doubts over  the अस्तित्व of the g-spot  .
The Kanab ambersnail , scientific name Oxyloma haydeni  kanabensis  or Oxyloma kanabense , is a critically endangered subspecies or species of small , air-breathing land snail , a terrestrial pulmonate gastropod mollusc in the family Succineidae , the amber snails .
The common name of the amber snails is based on the shell , which is translucent and when empty  प्रायः resembles एम्बर  in color .
This species is endemic to the United States , specifically the state of Arizona and Utah , where it was first collected in the early  20th सदी  .
It has been listed as endangered on the United States Fish and Wildlife Service list  of endangered  species since 8 August 1991 .
This snail lives in wetlands , springs , and seeps , and only two of its natural habitats are known to exist : Three Lakes , a meadow near Kanab , Utah , and Vasey 's  स्वर्ग , a वसन्त साथ the कोलोराडो नदी भीतर  Grand Canyon National Park .
In its natural habitat it is rather polyphagous , feeding  मुख्यतः on जीवाणु , पौधे  and fungi , and reproduces during the summer .
Now considered a Critically Endangered species on the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species due to a series of factors ( including influence ) , the Kanab ambersnail has been reintroduced to three   springs above the historic high water level along the Colorado River .
the स्पेनी  language is the second most used language in the United States .
There are more Spanish speakers in the United  राज्य  than there are speakers of Chinese , French , German , Italian , Hawaiian , and the Native American languages combined .
According to the 2010 American Community Survey conducted by the U.S. Census Bureau , Spanish is the primary language  बोला at घर by लगभग 37 लाख  people aged five or older , a figure more than double that of 1990 .
There are 45 million Hispanophones who speak Spanish as a first or second language , as well as six million Spanish language students , composing the largest national Spanish-speaking community outside of  मैक्सिको और बनाना स्पेनी the रोमांस भाषा  and the Indo-European language with largest number of native speakers in the world .
Roughly   half of all U.S. Spanish speakers also speak English `` very well , '' based on the self-assessment Census question respondents .
The language came to the country  since  the 16th and 17th centuries with the arrival of Spanish colonists in areas that would later become the states of Florida , Texas , Colorado , New Mexico , Arizona , Nevada , Utah , and California and of the Spanish explorers - who explored areas of 42 states- .
Also west of Louisiana Territory was   Spanish between 1763 - 1800 ( year of the French recovery of territory ) , after the French and Indian War .
बाद of the incorporation of ये राज्य to the u.S. in पहला हाफ of 19th सदी , the स्पेनी भाषा थी बाद reinforced by the अधिग्रहण of प्यूर्टो रीको in 1898 और by बाद लहरें of the हिस्पैनिक करणों , मूलरूप इससे हिस्पैनिक अमेरिका , to the संयुक्त राज्य शुरूआत in the दूसरी हाफ of 19th  century until today .
is a Latin word that means `` thus '' or , in writing , `` it was  यूँ  in the source material '' .
Sic may also  refer to:
Sic , Cluj , a commune  in रोमानिया
SIC , the  क्षेत्रीय कोड  for Sicily
Sic ( noise artist ) , styled as [ sic ] , stage name  of  Jennifer Morris , a Canadian noise artist
sic ( बैंड ) is a आधुनिक hardcore/thrash मेटल बैंड इससे torshavn , the पूंजी of the फरो आइलैंड्स
`` ( sic ) ''  , a सोंग  by American band Slipknot on the album Slipknot
SIC , the  आरंभिक of  Marco Simoncelli .
SIC as an  एक्रोनिम  may stand for:
SiC , Silicon carbide , a  semiconducting सामग्री , भी  used to make metalworking tools
SIC (  cyclecar  ) ( Società Italiana Cyclecars )
Standard Industrial Classification , a 20th-century U.S.  प्रणाली  for classifying industries
International Standard Industrial Classification a UN system  लिये  economic activities
Shetland Islands  परिषद
the Swiss  interbank  Clearing system
San Isidro Club ,  an अर्जेंटाइन  rugby union club
Standing Interpretation Committee , a committee dedicated to the interpretation  of अंतरराष्ट्रीय हिसाब  standards IFRS
Schwarz  सूचना मानदंड in the  field of statistics
second-in-command  in the field of aviation
sistema  Interconectado Central power grid in Chile
Sociedade   Independente de Comunicação ( SIC ) , a television channel in Portugal
Sea Isle City , New Jersey , a coastal town in the  संयुक्त  States
Segmented  पूर्णांक  Counter mode , a mode of operation in cryptography
Sepang  अंतरराष्ट्रीय सर्किट , a high-end  racetrack that hosts the Malaysian round of Formula 1
Shanghai  अंतरराष्ट्रीय सर्किट  , a motor racing venue in Shanghai , China
Simplified instructional  कंप्यूटर , a काल्पनिक  computer used in systems programming
SIC ( Sons Idées Couleurs ) , an early  twentieth-century  art magazine produced by French author Pierre Albert-Birot
Southeastern  इलिनोइस कॉलेज , a दो  year Junior College in Harrisburg , Illinois , United States
Specific inductive capacity , abbreviated to SIC , which is more commonly known as the relative  विद्युतशीलता or the परावैद्युत  constant
St Ignatius ' College , Riverview , a  जेसुइट स्कूल  in Sydney , Australia
alt=Five smiling young girls in various poses wearing white  smocks over thigh-length  dresses of similar color to their hair .
The  टोकियो mew mew manga  and anime series features a cast of characters designed by Mia Ikumi .
The series takes place in Tokyo , Japan , where five adolescent girls , called Mew Mews , are infused with the DNA of endangered species to  कॉम्बैट एलियंस attempting to लो  over the Earth .
The manga series is followed by a short sequel series ,  टोकियो  Mew Mew a la Mode , which introduces a new Mew Mew and a new threat .
The Mew Mews are led by the main character , Ichigo  momomiya , जिनकी पहला कार्य is to एकत्रित  the other four Mew Mews : Mint Aizawa , Lettuce Midorikawa , Pudding Fong , and Zakuro Fujiwara .
As the series progresses , Ichigo goes from having a crush on Masaya Aoyama to becoming his girlfriend while trying to hide her  रहस्य  double life from him .
The  श्रेणी  antagonists include three aliens , Kish , Pie , and Tart , and their leader , Deep Blue .
Originally  इससे धरती , the एलियंस  were forced to leave long ago due to deadly environmental changes .
They have returned to kill the humans , who they feel are destroying their planet  , और reclaim  the planet .
In a  la विधि , मध्य स्कूल  student Berry Shirayuki is introduced as the sixth Mew Mew and , in the absence of Ichigo , the temporary leader of the Mew Mews .
A la Mode also introduces new set of antagonists , the Saint Rose Crusaders , a group of human  teenagers साथ  various psychic abilities with a desire to create their own utopia .
Led by  ड्यूक , वे मेक अनेक  attempts to kill Berry , eventually turning the local populace against the Mew Mews .
Ikumi 's initial vision for Tokyo Mew Mew  थी a स्टोरी पुकारा टोकियो ब्लैक  Cat Girl that featured a cat-girl battling alien invaders .
After the story was transitioned to a more upbeat story of five female superheroes  , the  character designs were redone to have a lighter , more colorful feel .
The main series characters were praised for being  a पूर्ण  fit for the overall story , as well as for their cute appearances .
The characters introduced in a la Mode were also praised for their visual appearances ,  लकिन criticized as होने दोहराव of the असली  series .
The character Duke was also criticized for having  a डिज़ाइन reminiscent  of the white supremacy group , the Ku Klux Klan .
Middle Triassic marginal marine sequence of siltstones ( below ) and limestones ( above ) , Virgin  गठन , southwestern यूटा ,  USA
Sedimentary rocks are types of rock that  हैं  formed by the deposition of material at the Earth 's surface and within bodies of water .
sedimentation is the सामूहिक नाम  for processes that cause mineral and/or organic particles ( detritus ) to settle and accumulate or minerals to precipitate from a solution .
Particles that form  a sedimentary  rock by accumulating are called sediment .
Before being deposited , sediment was formed by weathering and erosion in a source area , and then transported  to the प्लेस of deposition by जल , हवा , बर्फ  , mass movement or glaciers which are called agents of denudation .
The sedimentary rock cover of the continents of the Earth 's crust is extensive , but the total contribution of sedimentary rocks is estimated to be  तभी 8  % of the total volume of the crust .
Sedimentary rocks are only a thin veneer over a crust consisting mainly  of igneous  and metamorphic rocks .
sedimentary  rocks are deposited in layers as strata , forming a structure called bedding .
The study of sedimentary rocks and rock strata provides information about the  subsurface कि is उपयोगी लिये सिविल  engineering , for example in the construction of roads , houses , tunnels , canals or other constructions .
Sedimentary rocks are also important sources of natural resources like coal ,  चट्टान fuels  , drinking water or ores .
The study of the sequence of sedimentary rock strata is the main source for scientific knowledge about the Earth 's history , including palaeogeography , paleoclimatology  और the इतिहास  of life .
The  वैज्ञानिक  discipline that studies the properties and origin of sedimentary rocks is called sedimentology .
Sedimentology is both part of geology and physical geography and overlaps partly with other disciplines in the Earth sciences , such as pedology , geomorphology ,  भूरसायन  or structural geology .
350px
Humans are born with over 270 bones , some of which fuse together into a longitudinal axis , the axial skeleton ,  to जिससे the appendicular कंकाल is संलग्न  .
Saint Patrick ( ; ; Modern ; ; c.  387 – 17 कूच c. 460  or c. 492 ) was a Romano-British Christian missionary and bishop in Ireland .
Known as  the `` apostle  of Ireland '' , he is the primary patron saint of the island along with Saints Brigid and Columba .
Two authentic letters from him survive , from which come the only generally  स्वीकृत विवरण of उसके जीवन  .
When he was about 16 , he was captured from his home and taken as a  स्लेव to  Ireland , where he lived for six years before escaping and returning to his family .
After becoming a cleric , he returned to northern and  पश्चिमी आयरलैंड as  an ordained bishop , but little is known about the places where he worked .
By the seventh century , he  था already  come to be revered as the patron saint of Ireland .
सबसे उपलब्धियाँ विवरण  of his life are from subsequent hagiographies , and these are now not accepted without detailed criticism .
The Annals of Ulster state that he  arrived in आयरलैंड  in 432 , ministered in Ulster around 443 , and died in 457 or 461 .
The text , however  ,  distinguishes between `` Old Patrick '' ( thought to mean Palladius ) and `` Patrick , archapostle of the Scots , '' who died in 492 .
The actual  तिथियाँ of पैट्रिक  's life can not be fixed with certainty but , on a widespread interpretation , he was active as a missionary in Ireland during the second half of the 5th century .
He is generally credited with being the first  बिशप  of Armagh , Primate of All Ireland .
Saint Patrick 's Day is observed on  कूच 17 , the  date of his death .
It is celebrated both inside and outside Ireland , as both a  धार्मिक  and , especially outside Ireland , secular holiday .
In the dioceses of Ireland , it is both a solemnity and a holy day of  दायित्व ;  outside Ireland , it can be a celebration of Ireland itself .
Line   segments in the golden ratio
A golden rectangle with longer side  a  and shorter side b , when placed adjacent to a square with sides of length a , will produce a similar golden rectangle with longer side a + b and shorter side a .
This illustrates the  संबंध  .
In mathematics and  the कला , दो quantities हैं in the सुनहरी अनुपात if the  ratio of the sum of the quantities to the larger quantity is equal to the ratio of the larger quantity to the smaller one .
The  फिगर  on the right illustrates the geometric relationship .
Expressed  algebraically:
where the Greek  अक्षर फाई ( ) represents  the golden ratio .
Its value  is:
The golden ratio is also called the golden section (  लैटिन  : sectio aurea ) or golden mean .
Other names include extreme and mean  अनुपात , medial खण्ड  , divine proportion , divine section ( Latin : sectio divina ) , golden proportion , golden cut , and golden number .
Many 20th century artists and  आर्किटेक्ट have proportioned उनके works to सन्निकट the सुनहरी ratio—especially in the रूप  of the golden rectangle , in which the ratio of the longer side to the shorter is the golden ratio—believing this proportion to be aesthetically pleasing ( see Applications and observations below ) .
Mathematicians since Euclid have studied the properties of the golden ratio , including its appearance in the dimensions  of a नियमित प्रस्तुतीकरण और in a सुनहरी आयताकार , जिससे can be काटें into  a square and a smaller rectangle with the same aspect ratio .
The golden ratio has also been used to analyze the proportions of natural objects as well as man-made systems such as financial markets , in some cases  आधारित on संदिग्ध fits to आंकड़ा  .
North Myrtle Beach is a  तटीय रिज़ॉर्ट  city in Horry County , South Carolina , United States .
It was created in 1968  इससे चार मौजूदा  municipalities north of Myrtle Beach , and serves as one of the primary tourist towns along the Grand Strand .
The  जनसांख्यिकी थी 13,752  at the 2010 census .
World War I ( WWI ) was a global war centred in   Europe that began on 28 July 1914 and lasted until 11 November 1918 .
It was predominantly called  the संसार युद्ध or the  Great War from its occurrence until the start of World War II in 1939 , and the First World War or World War I thereafter .
It involved all the world 's great powers , which were assembled in two opposing alliances : the Allies ( based on the Triple Entente of the United Kingdom , France and Russia ) and the Central Powers ( originally the Triple Alliance of Germany , Austria-Hungary and Italy ; but , as Austria–Hungary had taken the offensive against the  अनुबंध , इटली किया नहीं  enter into the war ) .
ये alliances यहूद दोनो reorganised  and expanded as more nations entered the war : Italy , Japan and the United States joined the Allies , and the Ottoman Empire and Bulgaria the Central Powers .
Ultimately , more than 70 million military personnel , including 60 million Europeans  , यहूद mobilised  in one of the largest wars in history .
More than 9 million combatants were killed , largely because of technological advancements that led to enormous increases in the lethality of weapons without  सम्बन्धित सुधार  in protection or mobility .
It was the fifth- deadliest conflict in world history , subsequently paving the way for various political changes , such as  revolutions in अनेक of the राष्ट्र शामिल  .
One of the long-term causes of the war  थी  the resurgence of imperialism in the foreign policies of the great powers of Europe .
More immediately , the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria , the heir to the throne of Austria-Hungary , on 28 June 1914 by Yugoslav nationalist Gavrilo Princip in Sarajevo triggered a diplomatic  संकट जब austria-hungary subsequently वितरित an ultimatum to the किंगडम of सर्बिया  .
Several alliances formed over the previous  दशकों यहूद  invoked .
Within weeks  , the प्रमुख शक्तियां  were at war and , via their colonies , the conflict soon spread around the world .
On 28 July , the Austro-Hungarians fired the first shots of the  युद्ध as  preparation for the invasion of Serbia .
While the Russians mobilised , the Germans invaded neutral Belgium  और ध्वज on the रास्ता  to France , providing a casus belli for Britain 's declaration of war against Germany .
After the German march on Paris was brought to a halt—the so-called Miracle of the Marne —the Western Front settled into a static battle of attrition with  a गर्त  line that changed little until 1917 .
On the Eastern Front , the Russian army was successful against the Austro-Hungarians , but was stopped in its  आक्रमण of ईस्ट prussia by the  Germans .
In November the Ottoman Empire joined the war , opening up fronts in the Caucasus ,  मेसोपोटामिया और the  Sinai .
Italy and Bulgaria went to war in  1915  and Romania in 1916 .
In Russia , the tsar 's government  collapsed in कूच 1917 और a  subsequent revolution in November brought the Russians to terms with the Central Powers .
After a 1918 German offensive  साथ the पश्चिमी सामने  , the Allies drove back the Germans in a series of successful offensives and American forces began entering the trenches .
Germany , which had its  अपना ट्रबल साथ क्रांतिकारियों  , agreed to an armistice on 11 November 1918 .
the युद्ध  ended in victory for the Allies .
Events on the home fronts were as tumultuous as on the battle fronts , as the participants tried  to mobilize  their manpower and economic resources to fight a total war .
By the end  of the युद्ध ,  four major imperial powers—the German , Russian , Austro-Hungarian and Ottoman empires—ceased to exist .
The successor states of the former two  खोया a ग्रेट  amount of territory , while the latter two were dismantled entirely .
The map of central  यूरोपीय थी redrawn  into several smaller states .
The League of Nations was formed in the hope of  preventing  another such conflict .
The European nationalism spawned by the war and the breakup of empires , the repercussions of Germany  's  defeat and problems with the Treaty of Versailles are agreed to be factors contributing to World War II .
camden is  a city in Camden County , New Jersey , United States .
It is the county seat , located across the  डेलावेयर नदी  from Philadelphia .
As of the 2010 United States Census the city had a total population of 77,344 , representing a decline of 2,560 ( 3.2 % )  इससे the 79,904 निवासियों enumerated  during the 2000 Census , which had in turn declined by 7,588 ( 8.7 % ) from the 87,492 counted in the 1990 Census .
Camden ranked as the 12th-most populous municipality in the state in 2010 after  having महरूम क्रमित  10th in 2000 .
Camden was originally incorporated as a city on February 13 , 1828 , from portions of the now-defunct Newton Township , while the area was still  भाग of gloucester काउंटी  .
On March 13 , 1844 ,  camden became  part of the newly formed Camden County .
Although  एकबार a thriving  center for manufacturing and industry , Camden is perhaps best known for its struggles with urban dysfunction .
Three  camden mayors have  been jailed for corruption , the most recent being Milton Milan in 2000 .
Since 2005 the school system and police department have been operated by the state of New  जर्सी ; the कब्ज़ा समाप्त in  2012 .
In 2008 , Camden had the highest  अपराधों रेट in the u.S. साथ 2,333 हिंसक  crimes per 100,000 people while the national average was 455 per 100,000 .
Camden public  स्कूलों  spent $ 23,770 per student ( $ 19,118 on a budgetary per-pupil basis ) in the 2009–10 school year and two-thirds of the students graduate .
Two out of every five residents  हैं नीचे the नेशनल  poverty line .
Amitriptyline  (  Tryptomer , Elavil , Tryptizol , Laroxyl , Saroten , Sarotex , Lentizol , Endep ) is a tricyclic antidepressant ( TCA ) .
It is the most widely used TCA and has at least equal efficacy against  अवसाद as the नए क्लास of  SSRIs according to a study from early 2001 .
As well as reducing depressive symptoms , these types of tricyclics also ease migraines , tension headaches , anxiety  हमले और कुछ schizophrenic लक्षण  .
It is also known to reduce aggression and violent   behavior .
A computer is a general purpose device that can be programmed to carry  आउट a  finite set of arithmetic or logical operations .
Since a sequence of operations can be readily changed , the computer can solve more than one  दयालु of  problem .
Conventionally , a computer consists  of at तनिक एक प्रसंस्करण तत्व , typically a सेंट्रल  processing unit ( CPU ) and some form of memory .
The processing element carries out arithmetic and logic  परिचालन ,  and a sequencing and control unit that can change the order of operations based on stored information .
Peripheral devices allow information to be retrieved from an  बाह्य सोर्स  , and the result of operations saved and retrieved .
the पहला  electronic digital computers were developed between 1940 and 1945 in the United Kingdom and United States .
Originally they were the size of a large room , consuming as much  शक्ति as अनेक सौ  modern personal computers ( PCs ) .
In this era  mechanical  analog computers were used for military applications .
Modern computers based on integrated circuits are millions to billions of times more capable than the early machines ,  और occupy a भिन्न  of the space .
Simple computers  हैं छोटी पर्याप्त  to fit into mobile devices , and mobile computers can be powered by small batteries .
Personal  कंप्यूटर in  their various forms are icons of the Information Age and are what most people think of as “computers.”
However , the embedded computers  मिला in अनेक  devices from MP3 players to fighter aircraft and from toys to industrial robots are the most numerous .
`` Barefoot and  गर्भवती '' is a phrase सबसे commonly  associated with the controversial idea that women should not work outside the home and should have many children during their reproductive years .
it रै अनेक अन्य meanings as खूब  .
It is a  फिगर  of speech .
The phrase `` barefoot and pregnant '' was probably  पहला प्रयुक्त sometime  before 1950 .
An article from 1949 states , `` By  जल्दी  1949 , TWA was—in the words of its new president , Ralph S. Damon—both 'barefoot and pregnant . ' ''
Its usage may date as  जल्दी  as the 1910s .
An article published in 1958 states the phrase was first  प्रयुक्त by a ``  Dr. Hertzler '' 40 years earlier .
`` Some forty years ago , Dr.  hertzler उन्नत a परिकल्पना  which young women of today seem bent on proving correct. '
The only way to keep a  स्त्री प्रसन्न  , ' he said , 'is to keep her barefoot and pregnant . ' ''
Oakhurst is a census-designated place and unincorporated community  भीतर समंदर township , in मॉनमाउथ  County , New Jersey , United States .
As of the 2010 United  राज्य जनसांख्यिकी  , the CDP 's population was 3,995 .
University of Phoenix Stadium , opened August 1 , 2006 , is a multipurpose  फ़ुटबॉल स्टेडियम स्तिथ in ग्लेनडेल  , Arizona .
It is the home of the  एरिज़ोना कार्डिनल्स of the नेशनल  Football League ( NFL ) and the annual Fiesta Bowl .
The stadium is located next door to the Jobing.com Arena and it features the first fully retractable natural grass playing surface built in the United  राज्य on शीर्ष of an एयरफील्ड प्रणालियों नाले  system .
An opening on one side of the stadium  allows  the playing field to move to the exterior of the building , allowing the entire natural turf playing surface to be exposed to daylight .
The stadium has hosted Super Bowl XLII , and the 2011 BCS National Championship Game , a game that it hosts every four years , which set the venue 's entertainment attendance record of  78,603  on January 11 , 2011 .
It will again host Super Bowl XLIX in  2015  .
the विश्वविद्यालयों of फीनिक्स  acquired the naming rights in September 2006 , shortly after the stadium had opened under the name Cardinals Stadium .
The `` University of Phoenix `` name is applied as a corporate sponsor , and not as the  घर स्टेडियम of the विश्वविद्यालयों (  which has no intercollegiate athletics program ) .
The stadium has also hosted the WWE event  रेसलमेनिया xxvi  with 72,219 fans in attendance .
The event was held in the  स्टेडियम  on March 28th 2010 .
Joshua Lawrence Chamberlain ( September 8 , 1828 – February 24 , 1914 ) , born as Lawrence Joshua Chamberlain , was an  अमरीकी कॉलेज प्राध्यापक इससे the राज्य of maine  , who volunteered during the American Civil War to join the Union Army .
Although having  no  earlier education in military strategies , he became a highly respected and decorated Union officer , reaching the rank of brigadier general ( and brevet major general ) .
For his gallantry at  gettysburg  , he was awarded the Medal of Honor .
He was  दिए the सम्मान of commanding  the Union troops at the surrender ceremony for the infantry of Robert E. Lee 's Army at Appomattox , Virginia .
After the war , he entered politics as a Republican  और परोसा  four one-year terms of office as the 32nd Governor of Maine .
He served on the faculty , and   as president , of his alma mater , Bowdoin College .
An inning , or innings , is a fixed-length segment of a game in any of a variety of sports – most notably cricket and baseball  दौरान जिससे एक टोली कोशिशें to स्कोर जबकि the अन्य टोली  attempts to prevent the first from scoring .
In cricket , the term innings is both singular and plural and is  सदा spelled  and pronounced with the terminal `` s '' .
In  बेसबॉल और  softball , the singular form is inning and only the plural takes an `` s '' .
In many other sports , the length of the game is dictated by a clock and teams swap offensive and defensive roles dynamically  by  taking possession of a ball or similar item .
In baseball and cricket , however , one team , said to be `` batting '' , attempts to score `` runs ''  —see चलाएं ( बेसबॉल )  and run ( cricket ) —while the other team , said to be `` fielding '' , attempts to prevent the scoring of runs and get members of the batting team out .
the टीमों स्विच स्थान  after the fielding team has succeeded in getting a fixed number of players out , making a clock unnecessary .
In cricket , the term innings is also used to refer to the  खेल of एक particular खिलाड़ी (  Smith had a poor innings , scoring only 12 ) .
By extension , this term can be used in British English for almost any activity which takes a period of time ( The Liberal government had a good innings , but finally lost office in 1972 , or You 've had a fair innings , now it 's my   turn , meaning `` you have spoken for long enough , now let me speak '' ) .
It is also used in reference to someone who  रै died  at a reasonably old age or lived a rich and rewarding life ( Ah , well .
John was  89 .
At  तनिक  he had a good innings ) .
The baseball-derived parallel to this in American  अंग्रेज़ी is the पद  at bat .
According to the Oxford English Dictionary , the term innings  रै महरूम  used in reference to cricket since at least 1735 .
As cricket was a mature , highly organized sport in the 1600s in England , the  पद 's उत्पत्ति could खूब  precede this first recorded usage .
The word inning meaning 'a gathering  in ' is  first recorded in 1522 , and could be related .
Adenosine deaminase  कमियां , भी पुकारा  ADA deficiency or ADA-SCID , is an autosomal recessive metabolic disorder that causes immunodeficiency .
it occurs  in fewer than one in 100,000 live births worldwide .
It accounts for about 15 % of all cases  of कठोर  combined immunodeficiency ( SCID ) .
It is very rare , you  have  a 3 % chance of getting this gene .
ADA deficiency may be present in infancy , childhood  , adolescense  , or adulthood .
आयु of onset  and severity is related to some 29 known genotypes associated with the disorder .
An example of urban poverty in this  slum in  Jakarta , Indonesia
Poverty is the state of one who lacks a certain amount of  सामग्री possessions  or money .
Absolute poverty or destitution refers to the deprivation of basic human needs , which commonly includes food , water , sanitation , clothing ,  आश्रय , स्वास्थ्य परवाह और शिक्षा  .
Relative poverty is defined contextually as economic inequality in the location or society  in which  people live .
For much of  इतिहास , गरीबी थी माना largely  unavoidable as traditional modes of production were insufficient to give an entire population a comfortable standard of living .
After the industrial revolution , mass production in factories made wealth  increasingly अधिक inexpensive  and accessible .
of अधिक महत्व is the modernization of कृषि , ऐसे as fertilizers , in अनुक्रम to provide पर्याप्त उपज to फीड the जनसांख्यिकी  .
The supply of basic needs can be restricted by constraints on government services such as corruption , tax avoidance , debt and loan conditionalities and by the brain drain of health care and educational   professionals .
Strategies of increasing income to make basic needs more affordable typically include welfare ,  आर्थिक freedoms  , and providing financial services .
Poverty reduction is a major goal and issue for many international organizations such as the United  राष्ट्र और the संसार  Bank .
The World Bank  अनुमानित 1.29  billion people were living in absolute poverty in 2008 .
Of these , about   400 million people in absolute poverty lived in India and 173 million people in China .
In USA 1 in 5 children lives in  गरीबी  .
In  शर्तें of प्रतिशत of क्षेत्रीय  populations , sub-Saharan Africa at 47 % had the highest incidence rate of absolute poverty in 2008 .
Between 1990 and 2010 , about 663 million people  स्थानांतरित ऊपर the निरपेक्ष  poverty level .
स्टिल , चरम गरीबी is a वैश्विक चुनौती ; it is observed in सब भाग of the संसार , सहित the विकसित economies .
Mushroom poisoning ( also known as mycetism ) refers to  नुकसानदेह प्रभाव  from ingestion of toxic substances present in a mushroom .
These symptoms can vary from slight gastrointestinal  तकलीफ to मौत  .
The toxins present  हैं द्वितीयक  metabolites produced in specific biochemical pathways in the fungal cells .
Mushroom poisoning is usually the result of ingestion of wild mushrooms after misidentification of a toxic mushroom   as an edible species .
The most common reason for this misidentification is close resemblance in terms of colour and general morphology of the toxic mushrooms species  साथ खाद्य प्रजाति  .
Even very experienced wild mushroom gatherers are upon rare occasion poisoned by eating toxic species , despite  होने खूब जागरूक  of the risks , through carelessness .
To prevent mushroom poisoning , mushroom gatherers need to be very familiar with the mushrooms they intend to collect as  खूब as साथ कोई  similar-looking toxic species .
In addition ,  edibility of मशरूम may निर्भर  on methods of preparation for cooking .
Collectors  भी  need to be well aware that edibility or toxicity of some species varies with geographic location .
Human height is the distance from the bottom of the feet to the top of the head in a human body  , खड़ा वीर्यपात  .
When populations share genetic background and environmental factors , average height is  अक्सर characteristic भीतर the  group .
असाधारण ऊँचाई विभिन्नता ( around 20 % विचलन इससे औसत ) भीतर ऐसे a जनसांख्यिकी is sometimes due to gigantism or dwarfism , जिससे हैं चिकित्सा शर्तें caused by विशिष्ट जीनों or अंतःस्रावी abnormalities .
In regions of extreme poverty or prolonged warfare , environmental factors like chronic malnutrition during childhood or adolescence may account for delayed growth and/or ( in  कठोर मामले ) चिह्नित reductions in वयस्क stature भी बगैर the उपस्थिति  of any of these medical conditions .
Apollo 11 was the spaceflight that landed the first humans , Americans Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin , on the Moon on July 20 ,  1969 ,  at 20:18 UTC .
Armstrong became  the पहला to कदम onto the चंद्र  surface 6 hours later on July 21 at 02:56 UTC .
Armstrong spent about two and a half hours outside the spacecraft , Aldrin slightly less ; and together they collected of lunar  सामग्री  for return to Earth .
A third member of the mission , Michael Collins , piloted the command spacecraft alone in lunar orbit until Armstrong and  एल्ड्रिन लौटे  to it just under a day later for the trip back to Earth .
Launched by a Saturn V rocket from  कैनेडी स्पेस बीच in merritt द्वीप  , Florida on July 16 , Apollo 11 was the fifth manned mission of NASA 's Apollo program .
The Apollo spacecraft had three parts : a Command Module with a cabin for the three astronauts which was the only part  जिससे उतरा वापस on धरती  ; a Service Module which supported the Command Module with propulsion , electrical power , oxygen and water ; and a Lunar Module for landing on the Moon .
After  होने  sent to the Moon by the Saturn V 's upper stage , the astronauts separated the spacecraft from it and travelled for three days until they entered into lunar orbit .
आर्मस्ट्रांग और एल्ड्रिन तब स्थानांतरित into the चंद्र मोड्यूल और उतरा in the समुद्र of tranquility .
They stayed a total of about 21 and a half hours on  the चंद्र सतह  .
After lifting off in the upper part of the Lunar  मोड्यूल और rejoining कॉलिन्स  in the Command Module , they returned to Earth and landed in the Pacific Ocean on July 24 .
Broadcast on  सजीव tv to a world-wide दर्शक , आर्मस्ट्रांग stepped onto the  lunar surface and described the event as `` one small step for [ a ] man , one giant leap for mankind . ''
Apollo 11 effectively ended the Space Race and fulfilled a national goal proposed in 1961 by the late U.S. President John F. Kennedy in a speech before the United States Congress , `` before this decade is out , of  लैंडिंग a man on the चंद्रमा और returning  him safely to the Earth . ''
The FIFA World Cup , often simply the World Cup , is an international association  फ़ुटबॉल प्रतियोगिता लडे by the वरिष्ठ मेन  's national teams of the members of Fédération Internationale de Football Association ( FIFA ) , the sport 's global governing body .
The championship has been awarded every  चार  years since the inaugural tournament in 1930 , except in 1942 and 1946 when it was not held because of the Second World War .
The  वर्तमान champions  are Spain , who won the 2010 tournament .
The current format of the tournament involves 32 teams competing for the title at venues within  the मेजबान स्वदेश  ( s ) over a period of about a month ; this phase is often called the World Cup Finals .
A qualification phase , which currently takes place over the preceding three years , is used to determine which teams qualify for the tournament together with the  मेजबान स्वदेश  ( s ) .
The 19 World Cup tournaments have been won by eight  अलग  national teams .
ब्राज़ील have जीती पाँच टाइम्स , और  they are the only team to have played in every tournament .
The other World Cup winners are Italy , with four  शीर्षक ; जर्मनी , साथ तीन शीर्षक ; अर्जेंटीना  and inaugural winners Uruguay , with two titles each ; and England , France , and Spain , with one title each .
The World  कप is the संसार 's सबसे widely  viewed sporting event ; an estimated 715.1 million people watched the final match of the 2006 FIFA World Cup held in Germany .
The next three World Cups will be hosted by Brazil in 2014 , Russia in 2018 ,  और क़तर in 2022 .
Genocide is a term coined in 1944 by Raphael Lemkin to describe the deliberate and systematic destruction , in  पूरे or in भाग , of an जातीय  , racial , religious , or national group .
It is defined in Article 2 of the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide ( CPPCG ) of 1948 as `` any of the following acts committed with intent to destroy , in whole or in part , a national , ethnical , racial or religious group , as such : killing members of the group ; causing serious bodily or mental harm to members of the  समूह ; deliberately inflicting on the समूह शर्तें of जीवन , गणना  to bring about its physical destruction in whole or in part ; imposing measures intended to prevent births within the group ; [ and ] forcibly transferring children of the group to another group . ''
skulls of पीड़ितों  of the Rwandan Genocide
The preamble to the CPPCG not only  राज्य कि `` नरसंहार is a अपराधों अंतर्गत अंतरराष्ट्रीय विधि  , contrary to the spirit and aims of the United Nations and condemned by the civilized world '' , but also that `` at all periods of history genocide has inflicted great losses on humanity '' .
Determining what historical events constitute a genocide and which are merely criminal or inhuman behavior is not  a  clear-cut matter .
In nearly every case where accusations of genocide have circulated , partisans of various sides have  fiercely विवादित the निर्वचन और विवरण  of the event , often to the point of promoting wildly different versions of the facts .
An  accusation  of genocide is certainly not taken lightly and will almost always be controversial .
The  following सूची of genocides और कथित genocides चाहिए  be understood in this context and can not be regarded as the final word on these subjects .
A timing  बेल्ट is a non-slipping mechanical  drive belt and the term may refer to either:
Toothed belt , a flexible belt with teeth moulded onto its  inner  surface
Timing belt ( camshaft ) , a  toothed बेल्ट  used to drive the camshaft ( s ) within an internal combustion engine
The culture of the United States is primarily a Western culture , but is also influenced by Native American , African , Asian ,  पोलिनेशियाई  , and Latin American cultures .
American culture started its formation over 10,000 years ago with the migration of Paleo-Indians from  एशिया into the प्रदेश कि  is today the continental United States .
It has its own unique social and cultural  विशेषताएँ ऐसे as dialect , म्यूज़िक  , arts , social habits , cuisine , and folklore .
The United States of America is an ethnically and racially diverse country as a result of large-scale  आव्रजन इससे  many different countries throughout its history .
Its chief early European influences came from English , Scottish , Welsh and Irish settlers of colonial  अमेरिका  during British rule .
British culture , due to colonial ties with Britain that  स्प्रेड  the English language , legal system and other cultural inheritances , had a formative influence .
Other important influences came from other parts of  पश्चिमी  Europe , especially Germany , France , and Italy .
Original elements also play a strong role , such as the invention  of jeffersonian  democracy .
Thomas Jefferson 's Notes on the State of Virginia was  शायद  the first influential domestic cultural critique by an American and a reactionary piece to the prevailing European consensus that America 's domestic originality was degenerate .
Prevalent ideas and ideals that evolved domestically , such as national holidays , uniquely American sports , military tradition , and  नवप्रवर्तनों in the कला और entertainment दे a दमदार  sense of national pride among the population as a whole .
अमरीकी संस्कृति शामिल दोनो रूढ़िवादी  and liberal elements , scientific and religious competitiveness , political structures , risk taking and free expression , materialist and moral elements .
Despite certain consistent ideological principles ( e.g . individualism , egalitarianism , and faith in freedom and democracy ) , American culture has a variety  of expressions due  to its geographical scale and demographic diversity .
The flexibility of U.S. culture and its highly symbolic nature  lead some  researchers to categorize American culture as a mythic identity ; others see it as American exceptionalism .
It also includes elements that evolved from Indigenous Americans , and other ethnic cultures—most prominently the culture of African  अमेरिकी , संस्कृतियों इससे लैटिन अमेरिका , और एशियाई  American cultures .
Many  अमरीकी  cultural elements , especially from popular culture , have spread across the globe through modern mass media .
the संयुक्त राज्य रै प्रायः महरूम विचार of as a melting घट , लकिन शुरूआत in the लेट 1990s और जल्दी 2000s , it रुझान towards सांस्कृतिक विविधता , बहुलवाद और the चित्र  of a salad bowl instead .
Due to the extent of American  संस्कृति  , there are many integrated but unique social subcultures within the United States .
The cultural affiliations  an व्यक्तिगत in the संयुक्त राज्य may  have commonly depend on social class , political orientation and a multitude of demographic characteristics such as religious background , occupation and ethnic group membership .
Samoan ( Gagana fa'a Sāmoa or Gagana Sāmoa — IPA : ) is the language of the Samoan Islands , comprising the independent country of  समोआ  and the United States territory of American Samoa .
It is an official  language—alongside अंग्रेज़ी  —in both jurisdictions .
Samoan , a Polynesian  भाषा , is  the first language for most of the Samoa Islands ' population of about 246,000 .
With  अनेक samoan लोगों  living in other countries , the total number of speakers worldwide is estimated at 370,000 .
The language  is  notable for the phonological differences between formal and informal speech as well as a ceremonial form used in Samoan oratory .
A glucose tolerance test is a medical test in which glucose is given and blood samples taken afterward   to determine how quickly it is cleared from the blood .
The test is usually used to  परीक्षण लिये मधुमेह , इंसुलिन प्रतिरोध  , and sometimes reactive hypoglycemia and acromegaly , or rarer disorders of carbohydrate metabolism .
In the most commonly performed version of the test ,  an मौखिक ग्लूकोज सहिष्णुता परीक्षण ( ogtt ) , a मानक  dose of glucose is ingested by mouth and blood levels are checked two hours later .
Many variations of the GTT have been devised over the years for various purposes , with different standard doses of glucose , different routes of administration , different intervals and durations of  sampling  , and various substances measured in addition to blood glucose .
`` What About Me '' is a song written by Garry Frost and Frances Swan , first recorded by Australian rock band Moving Pictures  from their  album Days of Innocence .
It was the band 's first number-one  सिंगल  in Australia spending six consecutive weeks on the top ; there , it was the second-highest selling single of 1982 .
The success of the song led them to America  जहाँ  it became a hit , reaching # 29 on the U.S . Billboard Hot 100 chart .
The song stayed in the U.S. charts for such a  long समय कि it प्रबंधित  to make Billboards top 100 Pop Singles of 1983 , at # 88 , a rare feat for a single with such a low peak position .
The song made an unusual comeback in 1989 , peaking  at # 46  .
On the left  a मुर्गा अंडा , the अंडा  most commonly eaten by humans , and on the right two quail eggs
अंडे हैं रखी by महिलाओं of अनेक  different species , including birds , reptiles , amphibians , and fish , and have been eaten by mankind for thousands of years .
Bird and reptile eggs consist of a protective eggshell , albumen ( egg white ) ,  और vitellus  ( egg yolk ) , contained within various thin membranes .
Popular choices for egg consumption are chicken , duck , quail , roe , and caviar , but the egg most often consumed by humans is the chicken egg , by a wide  हाशिया  .
Egg yolks and whole  अंडे स्टोर significant  amounts of protein and choline , and are widely used in cookery .
Due to their protein content , the United States Department of  कृषि ( यूएसडीए  ) categorizes eggs as Meats within the Food Guide Pyramid .
Despite the nutritional value  of अंडे  , there are some potential health issues arising from egg quality , storage , and individual allergies .
मुर्गियों और अन्य egg-laying जीव हैं  widely kept throughout the world , and mass production of chicken eggs is a global industry .
In 2009 , an estimated 62.1 million  मीट्रिक टन of अंडे यहूद उत्पादित  worldwide from a total laying flock of approximately 6.4 billion hens .
There are issues of regional variation in demand and expectation , as well as current  debates concerning विधि of  mass production , with the European Union 's ban on battery farming of chickens .
Major League Soccer ( MLS ) is a professional soccer  लीग representing  the sport 's highest level in the United States and Canada .
Sanctioned by the United States Soccer Federation ( U.S.  सॉकर ) , the लीग is रचित  of 19 teams — 16 in the U.S. and 3 in Canada .
Seasons   presently run from March to December , with each team playing 34 games in the regular season .
Ten teams compete in the postseason MLS Cup Playoffs culminating  in the चैंपियनशिप  game , the MLS Cup .
Major League Soccer was founded in 1993 as part of the  संयुक्त राज्य ' बोली to मेजबान  the 1994 FIFA World Cup .
The  पहला ऋतु  took place in 1996 beginning with ten teams .
Instead of operating as an association of independently owned teams , MLS is a single entity where each team is owned  and  controlled by the league 's investors .
The league 's closed membership makes it one of the  संसार 's few सॉकर लीग नहीं using  promotion and relegation .
The legality  of कैनबिस  varies from country to country .
Possession of cannabis is illegal in most countries and has been since the beginning of widespread  कैनबिस निषेध in the लेट 1930s  .
however  , many countries have decriminalized the possession of small quantities of cannabis , particularly in North America , South America and Europe .
Furthermore , possession is legal or effectively legal in the Netherlands , North Korea and would be in the U.S. states of Colorado and Washington if it were not for  संघीय विधि , जिससे governs  persons in all states .
The medicinal use of cannabis is legal in a number of countries , including Canada , the  चेक  Republic and Israel .
While federal law in the United States bans all sale and possession of cannabis , enforcement varies widely at the state level and some states have established medicinal marijuana programs in that contradict federal  विधि ; दो राज्य ( कोलोराडो  and Washington ) have repealed their laws prohibiting the recreational use of cannabis and replaced them with a regulatory regime , also contrary to federal statute .
Some countries have laws that are not as vigorously prosecuted as others but , apart from the countries that offer access to medical marijuana , most  देशों have  various penalties ranging from lenient to very severe .
Some infractions are taken more seriously in some countries than others in regard to the  cultivation , उपयोग  , possession or transfer of cannabis for recreational use .
A few jurisdictions have lessened penalties for possession of small  quantities of कैनबिस , बनाना  it punishable by confiscation and a fine , rather than imprisonment .
Some jurisdictions/ drug courts use mandatory treatment programs for young or frequent users , with freedom from narcotic drugs as the goal and a  few jurisdictions परमिट कैनबिस  use for medicinal purposes .
There are also changes in a more  प्रतिबंधक  direction as in Canada .
Drug tests to detect cannabis are increasingly  आम in अनेक देशों  and have resulted in jail sentences and people losing their jobs .
However , simple possession can carry long jail sentences in some countries , particularly in parts of East Asia and Southeast Asia where the sale of  कैनबिस may सीसे to a वाक्य  of life in prison or even execution .
In cardiovascular physiology , ejection fraction ( EF ) represents the  आयतनी भिन्न of रक्त  pumped out of the ventricle ( heart ) with each heart beat or cardiac cycle .
It can be applied to either the right ventricle which ejects via the  pulmonary वाल्व into the pulmonary  circulation or the left ventricle which ejects via the aortic valve into the systemic circulation .
Imaging of the physiology of the mammalian heart is the art that allows meaningful  गणितीय  expression defining EF .
Noninvasive cardiac imaging has become a worldwide  यूटिलिटी enabling पढ़ाई of हृदय  performance reproducibly and inexpensively .
Simplified , Ejection fraction is a mathematical product  अनुमत by हृदय  imaging .
As a mathematical term , Ejection Fraction is an extension of the work of Adolph   Fick in cardiac output .
Dedicated technology such as Echocardiography , Computed Tomography , Magnetic  अनुनाद इमेजिंग और muga स्कैनिंग have  definitively allowed clinically relevant mathematics regarding Ischemia , Congenital Heart Disease and Heart Failure .
State Route 14 ( SR 14 ) is a north–south state highway in the U.S. state of California ,  largely in the  Mojave Desert .
The southern portion of the highway is signed as the Antelope  घाटी फ्रीवे  .
The route connects Interstate 5 , or Golden State  फ्रीवे , निकट  Santa Clarita and with U.S. Route 395 near Inyokern .
Legislatively , the route extends south of I-5 to State Route 1 in the Pacific Palisades area of  लॉस एंजिल्स , however the portion दक्षिण  of the junction with I-5 has not been constructed .
The southern part of the constructed route is a busy commuter freeway serving and connecting the communities of Santa Clarita , Palmdale and Lancaster  साथ the बाकी of the वृहद लॉस एंजिल्स  area .
The  उत्तरी  portion , from Vincent ( south of Palmdale ) to Route 395 , is legislatively named the Aerospace Highway , as the highway serves Edwards Air Force Base , once one of the primary landing strips for NASA 's Space Shuttle .
This section is rural , following the line between the hot Mojave desert and the forming Sierra  नेवाडा  mountain range .
Most of   Route 14 is loosely paralleled by a main line of the Southern Pacific Railroad , used for the Antelope Valley Line of the Metrolink commuter rail system as well as a connection between Los Angeles and the California Central Valley via Tehachapi Pass .
Linked with US 395 , this road connects Los Angeles with such places as Mammoth Mountain ,  मोनो झील , yosemite  National Park and Reno , Nevada .
Route 14 was  भाग of u.S. रूट 6 prior to truncation  in 1964 , when U.S. 6 was a coast-to-coast route from Long Beach to Provincetown , Massachusetts .
The  non-freeway खण्ड of sr 14 इससे चांदी महारानी सड़क उत्तर  of Rosamond to Mojave is known as Sierra Highway , as is the old routing between Interstate 5 and Silver Queen Road where SR 14 has been moved to a newer freeway alignment .
portions of रूट  14 remain signed with names associated with US 6 , including Midland Trail , Theodore Roosevelt Highway and Grand Army of the Republic Highway .
इस रूट  is part of the California Freeway and Expressway System .
Blindness is the condition of lacking visual perception due to physiological or  neurological कारकों  .
Various scales have been developed to describe the extent of  दृष्टि  loss and define blindness .
कुल दृष्टिहीनता is the पूरा  lack of form and visual light perception and is clinically recorded as NLP , an abbreviation for `` no light perception . ''
Blindness is frequently  प्रयुक्त to  describe severe visual impairment with vision .
Those described as having only light perception have no more sight than the ability to tell  लाइट इससे अंधेरा और the  general direction of a light source .
To determine which  लोगों may need खास सहायता  because of their visual disabilities , various governmental jurisdictions have formulated more complex definitions referred to as legal blindness .
In North America and most of Europe , legal blindness is defined as visual acuity ( vision ) of 20/200 ( 6/60 ) or less in the better eye with   best correction possible .
This means that a legally blind individual would have to stand from an object to see it—with corrective  lenses —with the वही  degree of clarity as a normally sighted person could from .
In many areas , people with average acuity who nonetheless have a visual field of less than 20 degrees ( the norm  होने 180 डिग्री ) हैं भी वर्गीकृत  as being legally blind .
Approximately ten percent of  those deemed legally  blind , by any measure , have no vision .
The rest have some vision  , इससे लाइट बोध अलोन  to relatively good acuity .
Low vision is sometimes used to describe visual acuities  इससे 20/70 to 20/200  .
By the 10th  संशोधन of the जो अंतरराष्ट्रीय सांख्यिकीय वर्गीकरण of रोगों , चोटों और कल्याणकारी  of Death , low vision is defined as visual acuity of less than 20/60 ( 6/18 ) , but equal to or better than 20/200 ( 6/60 ) , or corresponding visual field loss to less than 20 degrees , in the better eye with best possible correction .
Blindness is defined as visual acuity of less than 20/400 ( 6/120 ) , or corresponding visual field loss to  कम than 10 डिग्री , in the बेहतर  eye with best possible correction .
Blind people with undamaged eyes may still register light non-visually for the purpose of  circadian entrainment to the 24-hour  light/dark cycle .
Light signals for this purpose travel through the retinohypothalamic tract and are not affected  by optic nerve damage beyond where  the retinohypothalamic tract exits .
Earl Simmons ( born December 18 , 1970 ) , better known by his stage names  dmx और अंधेरा man x , is  an American rapper and actor .
In 1999 , DMX released his best-selling album ... And Then There Was X , which featured the hit single ``  पार्टी up ( up in  Here ) `` .
he रै acted in films ऐसे  as Belly , Romeo Must Die , Exit Wounds , Cradle 2 The Grave , and Last Hour .
In 2006 , he starred in  the वास्तविकता टेलीविज़न श्रेणी  , which was primarily aired on the BET cable television network .
In 2003 , DMX published a  किताब of उसके memoirs हकदार  , E.A.R.L . : The Autobiography of DMX .
DMX released  a mixtape the  Weigh In as a prelude/promotion towards his album Undisputed ( 2012 ) .
DMX has sold over 30 million records worldwide ,  बनाना उसे एक of the best-selling  hip-hop artists of all time .
Professional certification , trade certification , or professional designation , often called simply certification or qualification , is a  नामांकन अर्जित  by a person to assure qualification to perform a job or task .
Not all  certifications कि उपयोग post-nominal  letters are an acknowledgement of educational achievement , or an agency appointed to safeguard the public interest .
Bugs Bunny is a funny animal cartoon character , best remembered for his starring roles in the Looney Tunes and Merrie Melodies series of theatrical short films produced by Warner Bros.  दौरान the सुनहरी आयु of अमरीकी  animation .
His popularity  दौरान इस  era led to his becoming a corporate mascot of Warner Bros. Entertainment .
Bugs is an anthropomorphic  gray hare or rabbit who  is famous for his flippant , personality , a pronounced New York accent , his portrayal as a trickster , and his catch phrase `` Eh ...
What 's up ,  दस्तावेज़  ? ''
( usually said while chewing a  गाजर ) .
Bugs has appeared in more films than any other cartoon  अक्षर  and is the ninth most portrayed film personality in the world .
According to his 1990 `` biography  ''  Bugs Bunny : 50 Years and Only One Grey Hare , Bugs was born on July 27 , 1940 in Brooklyn , New York in a warren under Ebbets Field , home of the Brooklyn Dodgers .
In reality , he was brought to life by the animators and staff of Leon Schlesinger Productions ( later Warner Bros.  cartoons ) : सहित टेक्स एवेरी  , who directed Bugs ' early definitive short A Wild Hare ( 1940 ) ; Robert McKimson , who created Bugs ' definitive character design ; and Mel Blanc , who originated the voice of Bugs .
The mucous membranes ( or  mucosae or mucosas  ; singular mucosa ) are linings of mostly endodermal origin , covered in epithelium , which are involved in absorption and secretion .
They line cavities that are exposed to the external  पर्यावरण और आतंरिक अंगों  .
They are at several places contiguous  साथ स्किन : at the नथुनों  , the lips of the mouth , the eyelids , the ears , the genital area , and the anus .
The sticky ,  मोटा द्रव स्रावित by the श्लेष्मक  membranes and glands is termed mucus .
The   term mucous membrane refers to where they are found in the body and not every mucous membrane secretes mucus .
The glans clitoridis , glans penis ( head of the penis ) , along with the inside of the  अग्रत्वचा और  the clitoral hood , are mucous membranes .
The urethra is also a mucous  झिल्ली  .
The secreted mucus  फंदा the pathogens  in the body , preventing any further activities of diseases .
A master sergeant is the military rank for a senior non-commissioned officer in some  हथियारबंद शक्तियां .
Cake is a form of bread or  bread-like  food .
In  इसके आधुनिक  forms , it is typically a sweet baked dessert .
In its oldest forms , cakes were normally fried breads or cheesecakes  , और सामान्यतः  had a disk shape .
Determining whether a given food should be  वर्गीकृत as ब्रैड ,  cake , or pastry can be difficult .
Modern cake , especially layer cakes , normally  contain a संयोजन of आटा ,  sugar , eggs , and butter or oil , with some varieties also requiring liquid ( typically milk or water ) and leavening agents ( such as yeast or baking powder ) .
Flavorful ingredients like fruit purées , nuts , dried or candied fruit , or extracts are often added , and numerous substitutions for the primary ingredients are  possible  .
Cakes are often filled with fruit preserves or  मिठाई  sauces ( like pastry cream ) , iced with buttercream or other icings , and decorated with marzipan , piped borders or candied fruit .
Cake is often the dessert of choice for meals at ceremonial occasions , particularly weddings ,  वर्षगांठ  , and birthdays .
There are countless cake recipes ; some are bread-like ,  कुछ  rich and elaborate , and many are centuries old .
Cake making is no longer a complicated procedure ; while at one time considerable labor went into  cake making (  particularly the whisking of egg foams ) , baking equipment and directions have been simplified so that even the most amateur cook may bake a cake .
Tamara Faye LaValley Bakker Messner ( March 7 , 1942 – July 20 ,  2007 ) थी an अमरीकी ईसाई  singer , evangelist , entrepreneur , author , talk show host , and television personality .
She was  शादीशुदा  from 1961 to 1992 to televangelist , and later convicted felon , Jim Bakker .
She co-hosted with  उसे on  The PTL Club ( 1976–1987 ) .
She was a participant in the  2004 ऋतु  of the reality show The Surreal Life .
Cambria is a village in Columbia County ,  विस्कॉन्सिन , संयुक्त राज्य .
The  जनसांख्यिकी  was 767 at the 2010 census .
It is part of the Madison  महानगर  Statistical Area .
Public policy is the principled guide to action taken by the administrative executive branches of the state  साथ लिहाज़ to a क्लास of मुद्दे in  a manner consistent with law and institutional customs .
In  सामान्य , the न्यास  is the pertinent national and substantial constitutional law and implementing legislation such as the US Federal code .
further substrates  include both judicial interpretations and regulations which are generally authorized by legislation .
Other scholars define it as a system of `` courses of action , regulatory measures , laws , and funding  प्राथमिकताएं concerning a दिए टॉपिक promulgated  by a governmental entity or its representatives . ''
पब्लिक  policy is commonly embodied `` in constitutions , legislative acts , and judicial decisions . ''
In the United States , this concept refers not only to the result of policies , but more broadly to  the decision-making  and analysis of governmental decisions .
As an academic discipline ,  पब्लिक नीति is पढ़ाई  by professors and students at public policy schools of major universities throughout the country .
The U.S. professional association of public policy practitioners , researchers , scholars ,  और विद्यार्थी is the संघ  for Public Policy Analysis and Management .
Digestion  is the mechanical और  chemical breakdown of food into smaller components that are more easily absorbed into a blood stream , for instance .
Digestion is a form of catabolism : a breakdown of  विशाल खाना  molecules to smaller ones .
When food enters the mouth , digestion of  the  food starts by the action of mastication , a form of mechanical digestion , and the wetting contact of saliva .
Saliva , a liquid secreted by the salivary glands  , contains salivary amylase , an एंजाइम  which starts the digestion of starch in the food .
After undergoing mastication  और मंड पाचन ,  the food will be in the form of a small , round slurry mass called a bolus .
It will then travel down the esophagus and into the stomach by the action  of peristalsis  .
Gastric juice in the  पेट starts  protein digestion .
Gastric  रस मुख्यतः contains  hydrochloric acid and pepsin .
As these two chemicals  may क्षति the पेट वॉल  , mucus is secreted by the stomach , providing a slimy layer that acts as a shield against the damaging effects of the chemicals .
At the same time protein digestion is occurring , mechanical mixing occurs by peristalsis , which are waves of  muscular contractions कि  move along the stomach wall .
This allows  the द्रव्यमान  of food to further mix with the digestive enzymes .
After some time ( typically an hour or two in humans , 4–6 hours in dogs , somewhat shorter  अवधि in  house cats ) , the resulting thick liquid is called chyme .
When the pyloric sphincter valve opens , chyme enters the duodenum where it mixes  साथ digestive  enzymes from the pancreas , and then passes through the small intestine , in which digestion continues .
When the chyme is fully  पचता , it is अवशोषित  into the blood .
95 % of absorption of nutrients occurs in the  छोटी आंत  .
Water  और खनिज हैं reabsorbed वापस  into the blood in the colon ( large intestine ) where the pH is slightly acidic about 5.6 ~ 6.9 .
Some vitamins , such as biotin and vitamin  k ( k2mk7  ) produced by bacteria in the colon are also absorbed into the blood in the colon .
Waste material is eliminated from the rectum  दौरान शौच  .
Henry VIII ( 28 June  1491 –  28 January 1547 ) was king of England from 21 April 1509 until his death .
He was lord , and later king , of Ireland , as well as continuing the nominal claim by the English monarchs to the  किंगडम  of France .
Henry was the second monarch of the Tudor  राजवंश , succeeding  his father , Henry VII .
Besides his six marriages , Henry VIII is  ज्ञात  for his role in the separation of the Church of England from the Roman Catholic Church .
Henry 's struggles  साथ रोम led to the विरह  of the Church of England from papal authority , the Dissolution of the Monasteries , and his own establishment as the Supreme Head of the Church of England .
Yet he remained a believer in core Catholic theological  शिक्षाओं , भी बाद उसके excommunication इससे the रोमन  Catholic Church .
Henry oversaw the legal union of England and Wales with the Laws in Wales Acts  1535 और 1542  .
In 1513 , the new king allied with the Holy Roman Emperor , Maximillian I , and invaded France in 1513 with a large , well-equipped army , but  हासिल छोटी at a considerable वित्तीय  cost .
Maximillian , for his part , used the  अंग्रेज़ी आक्रमण to उसके अपना ends  , and this prejudiced England 's ability to defeat the French .
This foray would prove the start of an  obsession लिये हेनरी , जो  invaded again in 1544 .
This time , Henry 's forces captured the  महत्वपूर्ण नगर of boulogne , लकिन again  the Holy Roman Emperor , Charles V , supported Henry only as long as he needed to and England , strained by the enormous cost of the war , ransomed the city back for peace .
His contemporaries considered Henry in his prime to be an attractive , educated and  संपन्नता किंग , और he रै महरूम वर्णित as `` एक of  the most charismatic rulers to sit on the English throne '' .
Besides ruling with absolute power , he also engaged  खुद as an लेखक  and composer .
His desire to provide England with a male heir – which stemmed partly from personal vanity and partly because he believed a daughter would be unable to consolidate the Tudor dynasty  और the नाजुक सलाम कि existed  following the Wars of the Roses – led to the two things for which Henry is most remembered : his six marriages and the English Reformation .
Henry became morbidly  मोटे और उसके स्वास्थ्य  suffered , contributing to his death in 1547 .
He is frequently characterised in  उसके  later life as a lustful , egotistical , harsh , and insecure king .
Bongos ( Spanish : bongó ) are   an Afro-Cuban percussion instrument .
The drums are of different size : the larger drum is called in Spanish the hembra ( female ) and  the छोटी the मर्दाना  ( male ) .
They are membranophones , or instruments that create sound  by a स्पंदन  of a stretched membrane .
Different religious groups include different books in their Biblical canons , in varying orders , and sometimes divide or combine books , or  चरितार्थ अतिरिक्त सामग्री into canonical  books .
Christian Bibles range from the sixty-six books of the Protestant   canon to the eighty-one books of the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church canon .
The Hebrew Bible , or Tanakh , contains twenty-four books divided into three parts ; the five books of the Torah ( `` teaching '' or `` law '' ) ,  the nevi'im  ( `` prophets '' ) , and the Ketuvim ( `` writings '' ) .
The first part of Christian Bibles is the Old Testament , which contains , at minimum , the twenty-four books of the Hebrew Bible divided into thirty-nine  किताबे और ordered  differently from the Hebrew Bible .
The Catholic Church and Eastern Christian churches also  थाम निश्चित deuterocanonical  books and passages to be part of the Old Testament canon .
The second part is the  नई वसीयत , containing twenty-seven  books ; the four Canonical gospels , Acts of the Apostles , twenty-one Epistles or letters and the Book of Revelation .
The Eastern Orthodox , Oriental Orthodox and Eastern Catholic churches may have minor differences in  उनके सूचियाँ of  accepted books .
The list given here for these churches is the most inclusive : if at least one Eastern church accepts the  किताब it is शामिल  here .
The national flag of the United States of America , often simply referred to as the American flag , consists of thirteen equal horizontal stripes of red ( top and bottom ) alternating with white , with a blue rectangle in the canton ( referred to specifically as the ``  संघ '' ) bearing पचास छोटी , श्वेत , five-pointed सितारों arranged in नौ ऑफसेट आड़ा पंक्ति of छह सितारों  ( top and bottom ) alternating with rows of five stars .
The 50 stars on the flag represent the 50 states of the United States of  अमेरिका और the 13 धारियाँ represent the तेरह अंग्रेजों colonies कि घोषित स्वतंत्रता इससे  the Kingdom of Great Britain and became the first states in the Union .
Nicknames for  the ध्वज शामिल  the `` Stars and Stripes '' , `` Old Glory `` , and `` The Star-Spangled Banner . ''
Dred Scott v. Sandford , , also known as the Dred Scott  निर्णय ,  was a landmark decision by the U.S. Supreme Court .
It made two main  rulings  .
The first ruling was that African-Americans were not citizens , and  इसलिए था no खड़ा to  sue in federal court .
The second ruling was that the federal government had no power to regulate slavery in any territory acquired   subsequent to the creation of the United States .
Given the first ruling , most scholars and many contemporary  राजनैतिक आंकड़े  ( including the leadership of the then-new Republican Party ) considered that the second ruling was not binding precedent , but mere dictum .
The rationale of the Supreme Court regarding the jurisdictional ruling implied that people of African descent ( both slave and free ) were not protected by the Constitution and  यहूद नहीं u.S. नागरिकों  .
Since passage of the 14th Amendment  to the u.S. संविधान  , both rulings are superseded and no longer valid precedent .
Nonetheless , the case retains historical significance  as it is widely  regarded as the worst decision ever made by the Supreme Court .
The  राय of the अदालत  , written by Chief Justice Roger B. Taney , stirred debate .
The decision was 7–2 , and  प्रत्येक इंसाफ besides taney लिखा  a separate concurrence or dissent .
लिये the पहला समय  since Marbury v. Madison , the Court held an Act of Congress to be unconstitutional .
Dred Scott , an  african-american स्लेव , था पूछा  a United States Circuit Court to award him his freedom because he and his master had resided in a state ( Illinois ) and a territory ( Wisconsin Territory ) where slavery had been banned .
Chief Justice Roger Taney , writing for the court , held that Scott , as a person of  अफ़्रीकी ancestry , थी नहीं a  citizen of the United States and therefore had no right to sue in federal court .
This holding was contrary to the practice of numerous states at the time , particularly Free states , where free blacks did in fact enjoy the rights of citizens , such as the right to vote and hold  पब्लिक  office .
In what is sometimes considered mere obiter dictum , the Court went  on to थाम कि कॉंग्रेस था no प्राधिकार to prohibit गुलामी in संघीय territories  because slaves are personal property and the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution protects property owners against deprivation of their property without due process of law .
In reaching this decision , Taney had hoped to settle the growing controversy surrounding  गुलामी in the संयुक्त राज्य , लकिन it था the  opposite effect .
The decision was fiercely  debated आरपार the देश , as शायद  best exemplified by the Lincoln–Douglas debates of 1858 .
Abraham Lincoln , the second-ever Republican nominee for President  , थी समर्थ to जीत the अध्यक्षीय  election in 1860 ; the stopping of the further expansion of slavery was a key Republican party plank .
The decision played an important role in the timing of state secession and the Civil War , although it is  चरम to कह  the decision `` caused '' the war .
The decision is acknowledged for the influential role it played in altering the national political  लैंडस्केप : it is credited साथ शुभारंभ अब्राहम lincoln’s  national political career and ultimately allowing for his election .
Although the Supreme Court has never explicitly overruled the Dred Scott case , the Court stated in the Slaughter-House Cases that at least one part of it had already been overruled by the Fourteenth Amendment in 1868  , जिससे begins by stating , `` सब व्यक्तियों born or देशीयकृत in  the United States , and subject to the jurisdiction thereof , are citizens of the United States and of the State wherein they reside . ''
To which the  अदालत  noted:
The first observation we have to make on this clause is ,  कि  it puts at rest both the questions which we stated to have been the subject of differences of opinion .
It declares that persons may be citizens of the United States without  लिहाज़ to उनके नागरिकता of a particular राज्य , और  it overturns the Dred Scott decision by making all persons born within the United States and subject to its jurisdiction citizens of the United States .
There are dozens of  पड़ोस in कोलंबस  , Ohio .
कुछ हैं  hard to define , as they encompass large areas developed at different times—often with sub-neighborhoods within them .
Borders can also change based on  लोकप्रिय समझना of the क्षेत्रफल , as  well as the whims of the residents .
This article uses data from the Datasourcecolumbus Web site ,  spotcrime.com , hellocolumbus.com , as खूब as  the various Columbus Area Commissions to define the various areas .
Excerpts and border information are drawn  सीधे इससे the प्रमुख आलेख  .
A biologist is a scientist who studies living organisms and their  संबंध to उनके पर्यावरण  .
Biologists involved in basic research attempt to discover underlying  mechanisms कि  govern how organisms work .
Biologists involved in applied research attempt to develop or  improve चिकित्सा , औद्योगिक  or agricultural processes .
Martinus Willem  beijerinck , a वनस्पतिशास्त्री  and microbiologist
आधार कूद  from a cliff in a wingsuit .
BASE jumping , also sometimes written as B.A.S.E . jumping , is an activity where participants  jump  from fixed objects and use a parachute to break their fall .
`` BASE '' is an acronym that stands for four categories of fixed objects from which  one can  jump : buildings , antennas , spans ( bridges ) , and earth ( cliffs ) .
The British Shorthair is a domesticated   cat whose features make it a popular breed in cat shows .
It has been the most popular breed of cat registered by the UK 's Governing Council of the Cat Fancy ( GCCF ) since 2001 , when it  overtook the पारसी  breed .
The USA Basketball Men 's Senior National Team , commonly known as the United States men 's national basketball team , represents the United States of America in  अंतरराष्ट्रीय मेन 's  basketball .
The USA is the most successful team in  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  competition , winning medals in all seventeen Olympic tournaments it has entered , coming away with fourteen golds .
Two of its gold medal-winning squads were inducted to the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame as teams in August 2010—the 1960 team , which featured six Hall of  famers ( 4 खिलाड़ी , 2 कोच ) , और the 1992  `` Dream Team '' , featuring 14 Hall of Famers ( 11 players , 3 coaches ) .
The United States   is currently ranked first in the FIBA World Rankings .
Traditionally composed of  amateur खिलाड़ी  , a 1989 rule change by FIBA allowed USA Basketball to field teams with professional players .
The first such team , known as the `` Dream Team '' , won the gold medal at the 1992 Summer Olympics in  बार्सिलोना , स्पेन , playing in the फाइनल  against Croatia .
With the introduction of  पेशेवर , the टोली  was able to spark a second run of dominance after capturing only a bronze medal in 1988 .
A  टोली of पेशेवर  players competed at the 1994 FIBA World Championship , finishing first .
In 1996 , 2000 , 2008 ,  और 2012 the यूएसए  again captured gold medals .
Facing increased competition , the USA failed to win a  पदक  at the 2002 FIBA World Championship , finishing sixth .
the 2004 गर्मियाँ ओलम्पिक टोली खोया  three games on its way to a bronze medal , a record that represented more losses in a single year than the country 's Olympic teams had suffered in all previous Olympiads combined .
Determined to put an end to these failures , USA Basketball initiated a long-term  प्रोजेक्ट aimed at बनाना बेहतर , अधिक cohesive  teams .
The USA won its first seven games at the 2006  fiba संसार चैंपियनशिप  in Japan before losing against Greece in the semi-finals , ending the competition with the bronze medal .
The USA won gold two years later , though , at the  2008 गर्मियाँ  Olympics with a dominant performance .
This success was followed up at the 2010 FIBA World Championship , where despite fielding a roster featuring no players from the  2008 ओलम्पिक टोली , the यूएसए किया नहीं खोना  a single game en route to defeating host Turkey for the gold medal .
The USA continued this streak of dominance by going undefeated and capturing  सुनहरा एकबार अधिक at the 2012  Summer Olympics .
The   Steelers Super Bowl XL ring
Joe  theismann 's  Super Bowl Ring ( right )
The Super Bowl ring is an award in the National Football League given to the  विजेता  of the league 's annual World Championship game , the Super Bowl .
Since only one Vince Lombardi Trophy is awarded  to the टोली ( स्वामित्व ) itself  , the Super Bowl ring offers a collectible memento for the actual players and team members to keep for themselves to symbolize the victory .
Image  प्रर्दशित the छह सबसे  common speleothems with labels .
to  दृश्य  labels .
The  डायन 's  Finger in the Carlsbad Caverns
A stalagmite ( or ; from the Greek σταλαγμίτης - stalagmitês , from σταλαγμίας - stalagmias , `` dropping , trickling '' ) is a type of speleothem that rises from the floor of a limestone cave due to the  टपकता of mineralized समाधान और  the deposition of calcium carbonate .
This stalagmite formation occurs only  अंतर्गत निश्चित ph शर्तें  within the underground cavern .
The corresponding formation on the  छत of  a cave is known as a stalactite .
If these  formations  grow together , the result is known as a column .
The Hall of  दिग्गज in  the Carlsbad Caverns
Stalagmites should normally not be touched , since the rock buildup is formed by minerals precipitating out of the water solution onto the old surface ; skin oils can alter the surface   where the mineral water will cling , thus affecting the growth of the formation .
Oils and dirt from human contact can also stain the formation and  बदलें इसके  color permanently .
Similar structures can also form in lava  tubes , संबद्ध साथ  some types of lavacicles , although the mechanism of formation is very different .
Stalactites and stalagmites can also form on   concrete ceilings and floors , although they form much more rapidly there than in the natural cave environment .
The largest  stalagmite in the  world is high and is located in the cave of Cueva Martin Infierno , Cuba .
In the Zagros Mountains of south Iran , approximately from the ancient city of Bishapur , in  the shapur गुफा on the चौथी of पाँच बरामदा  stands the 3rd century CE statue of Shapur I , second ruler of the Sassanid Empire .
The statue , carved from one  stalagmite , is nearly  high .
How I Met Your Mother is an American sitcom that premiered  on सीबीएस on सितंबर 19 , 2005  .
The  दिखाएँ थी  created by Craig Thomas and Carter Bays .
How I Met Your Mother is framed by the year 2030 , when Ted Mosby ( voiced by Bob Saget ) gathers his daughter ( Lyndsy  fonseca ) और बेटे ( दाउद henrie ) to बताना उन्हें the स्टोरी of कैसा  he met their mother .
We flashback to where it begins in 2005 with Ted Mosby ( Josh Radnor ) as a single , 27-year-old architect living with his two best friends from Wesleyan University , Marshall Eriksen ( Jason Segel ) , a law student ,  और लिली एल्ड्रिन ( alyson हनिंगन ) , a  kindergarten teacher , who have been dating for almost nine years when Marshall proposes .
Their engagement causes Ted to think about finding his own soul mate , much to the disgust of his friend Barney Stinson ( Neil Patrick Harris ) , a womanizer with an unnamed  corporate  job .
And thus , Ted begins his search for his  पूर्ण mate , और meets रोबिन  Scherbatsky ( Cobie Smulders ) , whom he also befriends .
The 100th episode of How I Met Your Mother aired on January  11  , 2010 .
On December 21 ,  2012 , the श्रेणी थी  renewed for a ninth season .
On January 30 , 2013 , it was  घोषित कि  Season 9 will be its final season .
Gringo ( , , ) is a slang Spanish  और पुर्तगाली शब्द प्रयुक्त in ibero-america  , to denote foreigners , often from the United States .
The term can be applied to someone who is  दरअसल a foreigner , or it can denote a दमदार संघ  or assimilation into foreign ( particularly US ) society and culture .
In Spanish it  करता  not have a negative connotation .
Roger Axtell , a travel etiquette expert , notes that `` [  t ]  he word gringo is not necessarily a bad word .
It is slang but is derogatory only  in इसके  use and context . ''
The word was used in Spain long before it crossed the Atlantic to  denote विदेशी  , non-native speakers of Spanish .
The great white shark , Carcharodon carcharias , also known as the great white , white pointer , white shark , or white death , is a species of large lamniform shark which can be found in the coastal surface waters of  सब the  major oceans .
The great white shark is mainly known for its size , with the largest individuals known   to have approached or exceeded in length , and in weight .
This shark reaches its maturity around 15 years of age and can have a life span  of  over 30 years .
The great white shark is  arguably the  world 's largest known extant macropredatory fish , and is one of the primary predators of marine mammals .
It is also known to prey upon a variety of other  समुद्री पशु , सहित  fish and seabirds .
It is the only known surviving species of its genus Carcharodon , and is  क्रमित पहला in having the सबसे हमले  on humans .
The IUCN list the  ग्रेट श्वेत शार्क  as a vulnerable species , while it is included in Appendix II of CITES .
The bestselling novel Jaws by Peter Benchley and the subsequent blockbuster film by Steven Spielberg  चित्रित the ग्रेट श्वेत शार्क  as a `` ferocious man eater `` .
In reality ,  इंसानो हैं नहीं  the preferred prey of the great white shark .
The United States  हथियारबंद शक्तियां  are the military forces of the United States of America .
They consist of the Army , Navy , Marine Corps , Air  फ़ोर्स , और coast  Guard .
The U.S. has a strong tradition  of civilian  control of the military .
The President is the military 's overall head , and helps form military policy with the U.S. Department of Defense ( DoD ) , a federal executive department , acting as the principal organ by which  सैन्य नीति  is carried out .
The DoD is headed by the Secretary of Defense , who  is a  civilian and Cabinet member .
The Defense Secretary is second in the military 's chain of command ,  बस नीचे the अध्यक्ष  , and serves as the principal assistant to the President in all DoD-related matters .
To coordinate military action with  कूटनीति , the  President has an advisory National Security Council headed by a National Security Advisor .
Both the President and Secretary   of Defense are advised by a seven-member Joint Chiefs of Staff , which includes the head of each of the Defense Department 's service branches as well as the chief of the National Guard Bureau .
Leadership is provided by the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of  स्टाफ और  the Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff .
The Commandant  of the coast गार्ड  is not a member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff .
All of the branches work  साथ दौरान परिचालन  and joint missions , under the Unified Combatant Commands , under the authority of the Secretary of Defense with the exception of the Coast Guard .
The Coast Guard falls under the administration of  the विभाग  of Homeland Security and receives its operational orders from the Secretary of Homeland Security .
The Coast Guard may be transferred to  the विभाग  of the Navy by the President or Congress during a time of war .
All five armed services are  among  the seven uniformed services of the United States ; the others are the U.S. Public Health Service Commissioned Corps and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Commissioned Corps .
From the time of its inception , the military played a decisive role in  the इतिहास  of the United States .
A sense of national unity and identity  थी forged as a  result of victory in the First Barbary War and the Second Barbary War .
Even so , the Founders were suspicious of a permanent military force and not until the  outbreak of संसार युद्ध ii किया a विशाल  standing army become officially established .
The National Security Act of 1947 , adopted  following संसार युद्ध ii और दौरान the ठंडा युद्ध 's onset , निर्मित the आधुनिक u.S. सैन्य फ्रेमवर्क ; the अधिनियम मिलाया previously cabinet-level विभाग of युद्ध और the  Department of the Navy into the National Military Establishment ( renamed the Department of Defense in 1949 ) , headed by the Secretary of Defense ; and created the Department of the Air Force and National Security Council .
The U.S. military is one of the  largest militaries  in terms of number of personnel .
It draws its  जनशक्ति इससे a  large pool of paid volunteers ; although conscription has been used in the past in various times of both war and peace , it has not been used since 1972 .
As of 2013 , the U.S. spends about $ 554.2  अरब annually  to fund its military forces , and appropriates approximately $ 88.5 billion to fund Overseas Contingency Operations .
Put together , the U.S. constitutes roughly 43  प्रतिशत of the संसार  's military expenditures .
The U.S. Armed Forces as a  पूरे possess  large quantities of advanced and powerful equipment , along with widespread placement of forces around the world , giving them significant capabilities in both defense and power projection .
Freedom of speech is the political right  to communicate एक  's opinions and ideas using one 's body and property to anyone who is willing to receive them .
The term freedom of  अभिव्यक्ति is sometimes प्रयुक्त synonymously  , but includes any act of seeking , receiving and imparting information or ideas , regardless of the medium used .
In practice , the right to freedom of  वाक is नहीं निरपेक्ष in कोई देश  and the right is commonly subject to limitations , as with libel , slander , obscenity , sedition ( including , for example inciting ethnic hatred ) , copyright violation , revelation of information that is classified or otherwise .
The right to  freedom  of expression is recognized as a human right under Article 19 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and recognized in international human rights law in the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights ( ICCPR ) .
Article 19 of the ICCPR states that `` [ e ] veryone shall have the right to hold opinions without interference '' and `` everyone shall have the right to freedom of expression ; this right shall include freedom to seek , receive and   impart information and ideas of all kinds , regardless of frontiers , either orally , in writing or in print , in the form of art , or through any other media of his choice '' .
Article 19 goes on to say that the exercise of these rights carries `` special duties and responsibilities `` and may `` therefore be subject to certain restrictions '' when necessary `` [ f ] or respect of the rights or  प्रतिष्ठा of अन्य '' or  `` [ f ] or the protection of national security or of public order ( order public ) , or of public health or morals '' .
Freedom of speech may be legally curtailed in some religious legal systems and in secular jurisdictions where it is found to cause religious offense , such  as the अंग्रेजों जातिगत  and Religious Hatred Act 2006 .
The Big Bang  सिद्धान्त लोगो  .
The Big Bang Theory is an American comedy television series created and executive  उत्पादित by चक lorre और  Bill Prady .
Like the name of the series itself , with the exception of the first episode— '' Pilot '' —episode titles of The Big Bang Theory always start with `` The '' and resemble the name of a scientific principle , theory or experiment ,   whimsically referencing a plot point or quirk .
, 133  एपीसोड  have aired .
The Big Bang Theory has been renewed for a seventh  ऋतु  .
Dwight David `` Ike '' Eisenhower ( pronounced , ;  अक्तूबर 14 , 1890 – कूच 28 , 1969 ) थी the 34th  President of the United States from 1953 until 1961 .
He had previously been a five-star general in the United States Army during World War II and served as Supreme Commander of the Allied Forces in Europe ; he had responsibility for planning and supervising the invasion of North Africa in Operation Torch  in 1942–43 और the कामयाब आक्रमण of फ़्रांस और जर्मनी in 1944–45 इससे the पश्चिमी सामने  .
In 1951 , he became the first  परम्  commander of NATO .
Eisenhower was of Pennsylvania Dutch  ancestry  and was reared in a large family in Kansas by parents with a robust work ethic and religious background .
As one of six sons , he was conditioned by a competitive atmosphere which  instilled  self-reliance .
He attended  और ग्रैजुएट  from West Point and later married and had two sons .
After World War II , Eisenhower served as Army Chief of Staff under President Harry S. Truman  , तब assumed the पोस्ट of अध्यक्ष at कोलंबिया  University .
Eisenhower entered the 1952 presidential race as a Republican to counter the  non-interventionism of सीनेटर रॉबर्ट A. taft और to crusade  against `` Communism , Korea and corruption '' .
he जीती by  a landslide , defeating Democrat Adlai Stevenson and ending two decades of the New Deal Coalition .
In the first year of his presidency , Eisenhower deposed  the नेता  of Iran in the 1953 Iranian coup d'état and used nuclear threats to conclude the Korean War with China .
His New Look policy  of नाभिकीय deterrence  gave priority to inexpensive nuclear weapons while reducing the funding for conventional military forces ; the goal was to keep pressure on the Soviet Union and reduce federal deficits .
in 1954 , आइज़नहावर  first articulated the domino theory in his description of the threat presented by the spread of communism .
The Congress agreed to his request in 1955 for the Formosa Resolution , which enabled   him to prevent Chinese communist aggression against Chinese nationalists and established the U.S. policy of defending Taiwan .
When the Soviets launched Sputnik in  1957 , he था to खेल  catch-up in the space race .
Eisenhower forced Israel , the UK  , और फ़्रांस to  end their invasion of Egypt during the Suez Crisis of 1956 .
In 1958 , he sent 15,000  us सैनिकों to  Lebanon to prevent the pro-Western government from falling to a Nasser -inspired revolution .
Near the end of his term , his efforts to set  up a समिट  meeting with the Soviets collapsed because of the U-2 incident .
On the domestic front , he covertly  opposed जोसेफ मैकार्थी  and contributed to the end of McCarthyism by openly invoking the modern expanded version of executive privilege .
He otherwise left most   political activity to his Vice President , Richard Nixon .
He was a moderate conservative who continued New  सौदे एजेंसियों और  expanded Social Security .
Among his enduring innovations , he launched the Interstate  राजमार्ग प्रणाली ; the रक्षा उन्नत  Research Projects Agency ( DARPA ) , which led to the internet , among many invaluable outputs ; the National Aeronautics and Space Administration ( NASA ) , driving peaceful discovery in space ; the establishment of strong science education via the National Defense Education Act ; and encouraging peaceful use of nuclear power via amendments to the Atomic Energy Act .
In social  नीति , he भेजा संघीय सैनिकों  to Little Rock , Arkansas , for the first time since Reconstruction to enforce federal court orders to desegregate public schools .
He also signed civil rights legislation in 1957 and   1960 to protect the right to vote .
He implemented desegregation of the armed forces in two  सालो और बना  five appointments to the Supreme Court .
He was the first  term-limited अध्यक्ष  in accordance with the 22nd Amendment .
Eisenhower 's  दो शर्तें यहूद शांतिपूर्ण ones लिये  the most part and saw considerable economic prosperity except for a sharp recession in 1958–59 .
Eisenhower is often  क्रमित अत्यधिक among  the U.S. Presidents .
Air Force One is the official air traffic control call sign of a United States Air Force aircraft carrying the President of the  संयुक्त  States .
In common parlance the term refers to  those एयर फ़ोर्स वायुयान  specifically designed , built , and used for the purpose of transporting the president .
The Presidential  वायुयान  is a prominent symbol of the American presidency and its power .
The idea of designating specific military aircraft to transport the President arose in 1943  , जब officials of the संयुक्त राज्य फौज  Air Forces – the predecessor to the U.S. Air Force – became concerned with relying on commercial airlines to transport the President .
A C-87 Liberator Express was reconfigured for use as a  अध्यक्षीय हस्तांतरण  ; however , it was rejected by the Secret Service amid concerns over the aircraft 's safety record .
A C-54 Skymaster was then converted for presidential use ; this aircraft , dubbed the Sacred Cow , transported President Franklin D. Roosevelt to the Yalta Conference  in फ़रवरी 1945 , और थी subsequently  used for another two years by President Harry S. Truman .
The `` Air Force One '' call sign was created after a 1953 incident  दौरान जिससे a उड़ान carrying अध्यक्ष ड्वाइट D.  Eisenhower entered the same airspace as a commercial airline flight using the same call sign .
Several aircraft have been used  as एयर फ़ोर्स एक चूंकि  the creation of the presidential fleet , including two Boeing 707s introduced in the 1960s and 1970s , respectively ; since 1990 , the presidential fleet has consisted of two Boeing VC-25As – specifically configured , highly customized Boeing 747-200B series aircraft .
The Air Force is looking into replacing the two VC-25  वायुयान साथ तीन  replacement aircraft beginning in 2017 .
A wedding anniversary is  the वर्षगांठ  of the date a wedding took place .
Traditional names exist for most of them : for instance , 50 years of marriage is called a `` golden wedding  anniversary '' or simply a ``  golden anniversary '' .
A scanner with  duplexing स्वचालित  Document Feeder .
In multifunction or all-in-one printers , fax machines , photocopiers  और scanners , an स्वचालित दस्तावेज़ फीडर or adf is a  feature which takes several pages and feeds the paper one page at a time into a scanner or copier , allowing the user to scan , and thereby copy , print , or fax , multiple-page documents without having to manually replace each page .
Most copiers allow scanning on the flatbed or platen ( the ``  कांच '' )  or through a document feeder .
The vast  बहुमत of फैक्स मशीने have an adf , allowing  the unattended sending of multi-page faxes .
Due to the ubiquity of ADF in fax  मशीने , कुछ  fax machine owners use the fax machine as a scanner , faxing multi-page documents to themselves .
दस्तावेज़ feeders हैं  described by speed , in pages per minute or ppm , and capacity , usually in a range from 10 sheets to 200 .
There are two kinds of document feeders capable of two-sided (  duplex ) स्कैनिंग :  a reversing automatic document feeder or RADF scans one side of a page , then flips it and scans the other side .
A duplexing automatic document feeder or DADF scans both  पहलू  in one pass .
The advantage of the DADF is  तेज़ गति लिये  two-sided originals .
RADFs and DADFs are rated in images  प्रति मिनट ( ipm )  , the number of sides they can scan each minute .
Fair Park is a recreational and  शैक्षणिक जटिल स्तिथ  in Dallas , Texas ( USA ) .
The complex is registered as a Dallas Landmark , National Historic Landmark and is home to nine museums , six  प्रदर्शन सुविधाएं  , a lagoon , and the largest Ferris wheel in North America .
अनेक of the इमारतें on the जटिल यहूद constructed लिये the टेक्सास centennial exposition in 1936 जिससे खींचा over छह लाख विज़िटर  .
Most of the buildings built for  the exposition  still survive and it is recognized as a significant example of Art Deco architecture .
Fair Park has been designated a Great Place  in अमेरिका  by the American Planning Association .
The American Planning Association ( APA ) “is an independent , not-for-profit educational organization that provides  नेतृत्व in the विकास  of vital communities.”
The Great Places in American program helps to celebrate areas with “exemplary   character , quality , and planning.”
Being designated as a Great Place in  अमेरिका , मेला पार्क थी एक of तभी  ten cities chosen in 2011 .
San Jose ( ; Spanish :  st. जोसेफ  ) is the third-largest city in California , the tenth-largest in the U.S. , and the county seat of Santa Clara County which is located at the southern end of San Francisco Bay .
San Jose is the largest city within Silicon Valley , which is a major component of the greater San Francisco  खाड़ी क्षेत्रफल , a प्रदेश of 8.4 लाख लोगों  and the fifth largest metropolitan area ( CSA ) in the United States .
It is  the  largest city in Northern California .
San Jose was founded on November 29 , 1777 , as El Pueblo de San José de Guadalupe , the first civilian town in the Spanish colony of Nueva California ,  जिससे बाद  became Alta California .
The city served as a farming community to support Spanish military  संस्थापना at सैन फ्रांसिस्को और monterey  .
When California gained  statehood in 1850  , San Jose served as its first capital .
After more than  150 सालो as a छोटी खेती  city , San Jose and the surrounding Santa Clara Valley became the last ( and largest ) contiguous area of undeveloped land surrounding the San Francisco Bay .
San Jose experienced increased demand for housing from soldiers and veterans returning from  World  War II .
San Jose then continued its aggressive  विस्तार दौरान the 1950s  and 1960s by annexing more land area .
The rapid growth of the high-technology and electronics industries further  त्वरित the परिवर्तन  from an agricultural center , to an urbanized metropolitan area .
By the 1990s , San Jose 's location  भीतर the booming  local technology industry earned the city its nickname , Capital of Silicon Valley .
San Jose now maintains global city status and is the largest city in the San  फ्रांसिस्को खाड़ी क्षेत्रफल in शर्तें  of population , land area , and industrial development .
The U.S. Census Bureau reported the population of the city to be 945,942 as of the 2010  जनसांख्यिकी  .
As of April 2013 , the  अनुमानित  population of San Jose was 984,000 .
San Jose , along with the  सांता क्लारा  Valley , experienced about half a century of spectacular suburban sprawl , with characteristics of intense urbanization similar to the Los Angeles area of Southern California .
The city has taken  definite कदम to  avoid becoming `` L.A. North '' .
However , the sprawl in San Jose is worse than in Los Angeles by  उपायों ऐसे as जनसांख्यिकी  density and public transit safety , investment , and ridership .
Europe depicted by Antwerp cartographer Abraham  ortelius in 1595
the इतिहास of यूरोपीय कवर  the people inhabiting the European continent since it was first populated in prehistoric times to present , with the first Homo sapiens arriving between 45,000 and 25,000 BC .
The earliest settlers  to प्रागैतिहासिक  Europe came during the paleolithic era .
The arrival  of कृषि  around 7000 BC ushered in the neolithic age .
Neolithic Europe  lasted लिये 4000  years , overlapping with metal-using cultures that gradually spread throughout the continent .
Technological advances during the prehistoric age tended to arrive from  the मध्य  East , spreading gradually to the northwest .
Some of the  best-known सभ्यताओं of प्रागैतिहासिक  Europe were Minoan and Mycenaean , which flourished during the Bronze Age until they collapsed in a short period of time around 1200 BC .
The period known as classical antiquity began with  the वृद्धि of the  city-states of Ancient Greece .
Greek influence reached its zenith under the expansive empire of Alexander the Great ,  spreading  throughout Asia .
उत्तरी और पश्चिमी  Europe were dominated by the La Tène culture , a precursor to the Celts .
Rome , a small city-state traditionally founded in 753 BC , would grow to  become the रोमन गणतंत्र in 509 bc और होता सफल  Greek culture as the dominant Mediterranean civilization .
The events of the rule  of जूलियस सीज़र led  to reorganization of the Republic into the Roman Empire .
The empire was later divided by  the सम्राट diocletian into  the Western and Eastern empires .
During the later years of the Roman Empire , the Germanic peoples of northern Europe grew in strength and repeated attacks led to the Fall of the Western Roman Empire in AD 476 , a date which  traditionally marks the समाप्त of the शास्त्रीय  period and the start of the Middle Ages .
During the Middle Ages , the Eastern Roman Empire survived , though  आधुनिक इतिहासकारों  refer to this state as the Byzantine Empire .
In Western Europe , Germanic peoples moved into positions of power in  the  remnants of the former Western Roman Empire and established kingdoms and empires of their own .
Of all of the Germanic peoples , the Franks would rise to a position of Hegemony over western  यूरोपीय , the frankish साम्राज्य reaching इसके शिखर अंतर्गत शारलेमेन around  AD 800 .
Francia was  विभाजित into अनेक भाग ; वेस्ट francia  would evolve into the Kingdom of France , while East Francia would evolve into the Holy Roman Empire , a precursor to modern Germany .
The British Isles were the site of  अनेक large-scale  migrations .
Native Celtic peoples had been marginalized during  the काल of रोमन ब्रिटेन , और जब the romans abandoned the  British Isles during the 400s , waves of Germanic Anglo-Saxons migrated to southern Britain and established a series of petty kingdoms in what would eventually develop into the Kingdom of England by AD 927 .
During this  काल  , the Kingdom of Poland and Kingdom of Hungary ( 1000–1945 ) were organized as well .
The Viking Age , a period of migrations of Scandinavian peoples , dominated the  काल इससे the लेट  700s to the middle 1000s .
Chief  among the viking राज्य थी the साम्राज्य  of Cnut the Great , a Danish leader who would become king of England , Denmark , and Norway .
The Normans , a Viking people who settled in Northern France and founded the Duchy of Normandy , would have a significant impact on many parts of Europe , from the Norman conquest of England to Southern Italy and  सिसिली  .
Another Scandinavian people , the Rus '  लोगों , होता go on to मिला  Kievan Rus ' , an early state which was a precursor for the modern country of Russia .
As the Viking Age drew to a close , the period known as the Crusades , a series of religiously-motivated military expeditions originally  intended to लाओ  the Levant back into Christian rule , began .
Several Crusader states were founded in the  पूर्वी भूमध्यसागरीय  .
ये यहूद  all short-lived .
The Crusaders would have a profound impact on many parts of  यूरोपीय  .
Their Sack of  कुस्तुंतुनिया in 1204 brought  an abrupt end to the Byzantine Empire .
Extinct dog breeds is a  संकलन of श्वान  breeds that have become extinct .
Wii Speak is a microphone accessory for Nintendo 's Wii  वीडियो खेल कंसोल  .
Connected to the console via USB , the  यंत्र can be  placed near the video display , allowing voice chat to be conducted with the entire room .
The  यंत्र  features an LED to indicate when the microphone is active .
वी बोलो  was announced at Nintendo 's 2008 E3 media briefing .
It was released  separately और bundled साथ एनिमल क्रासिंग  : City Folk on November 16 , 2008 , in North America , and was released on December 5 , 2008 , in Europe .
The Wii Speak accessory is succeeded   by the embedded microphone on the Wii U 's GamePad controller .
Nissan Intelligent  key®
A smart key is an electronic access and authorization system  जिससे is उपलब्धियाँ  as an option or standard in several cars .
It was first developed by Siemens in the mid-1990s  और introduced by mercedes-benz अंतर्गत the नाम `` keyless  Go '' in 1998 on the W220 S-Class following its design patent filed by Daimler-Benz on May 17 , 1997 .
Univisión ( ) is a  spanish-language टेलीविज़न संजाल  in the United States .
The network is primarily  समर्पित लिये लैटिन  American families who reside in the United States .
It  रै the largest  audience of Spanish-language television viewers in the world according to Nielsen ratings .
Randy Falco , ( CEO as of June 29 , 2011 ) COO , has been in charge of the company since the departure of Univision  संचार अध्यक्ष और  CEO Joe Uva in April 2010 .
In recent years the network has reached parity with the U.S. 's five major English-language television networks , and is often a strong fifth , outranking The CW , with some fourth-place weekly placings , and as of 2012 , even first place rankings for individual programs over  सब पाँच अंग्रेज़ी संजाल due to the संजाल 's सतत  schedule of new telenovelas all 52 weeks of the year .
Univisión is headquartered in New York , and has its major  studios , उत्पादन सुविधाएं  , and operations in Doral , Florida , a suburb of Miami .
In 2009 , another television studio was announced , Univision Studios , to  be निर्मित in  Doral .
Univision is available on cable and satellite in most of the country , with local stations in over 50 markets with large Hispanic and Latino populations and a national  केबल  network feed distributed in markets without either the availability or the demand for a locally-based station .
Most of these stations air full local news and other local programming in addition to network shows , and in major markets such as Los Angeles , New York , and Miami the local newscasts carried by the network 's owned-and-operated station ( O & O ) stations are equally competitive with their  english-language counterparts ratings-wise  .
Univisión was acquired on March 29 , 2007 by a consortium led by Haim Saban 's Saban Capital Group ( who had previously owned the entity Saban  entertainment ) , tpg पूंजी , l.P. , विधाता  Equity Partners , Madison Dearborn Partners , and Thomas H. Lee Partners for $ 13.7 billion or $ 36.25 per share plus $ 1.4 billion in acquired debt .
the buyout बाएँ the कम्पनी साथ a कर्ज़ स्तर  of twelve times its annual cash flow , which was twice the norm in buyouts done over the previous two years .
कलाकार 's धारणा  of a protoplanetary disk
The formation and of the Solar System is estimated to have begun 4.6 billion years ago with the gravitational collapse of a small  भाग  of a giant molecular cloud .
Most of the collapsing mass collected in the centre , forming the Sun , while the rest flattened into a protoplanetary disk out of which the planets , moons ,  क्षुद्रग्रह , और अन्य  small Solar System bodies formed .
This widely accepted model , known as the nebular hypothesis , was first developed in the 18th century by Emanuel  swedenborg , immanuel kant , और  Pierre-Simon Laplace .
Its subsequent development  रै interwoven  a variety of scientific disciplines including astronomy , physics , geology , and planetary science .
Since the dawn of the space age in the 1950s and the discovery of extrasolar planets in the 1990s , the model has been both challenged and refined to  खाता  for new observations .
The  सौर प्रणाली  has evolved considerably since its initial formation .
Many moons have formed from circling discs of gas and dust around  उनके जनक ग्रह , जबकि अन्य moons हैं  thought to have formed independently and later been captured by their planets .
Still others , as the Earth 's Moon , may be the result  of दानव टक्करों .
Collisions  between लाशें have occurred continually  up to the present day and have been central to the evolution of the Solar System .
The positions of the  ग्रह  often shifted , and planets have switched places .
This planetary migration is now thought to have been responsible for much of the  सौर प्रणाली 's जल्दी  evolution .
In roughly 5 billion years , the Sun will cool and expand outward many times its current diameter ( becoming a red giant ) , before casting off its outer layers as a  ग्रहीय नीहारिका और leaving पीछे a तारकीय  remnant known as a white dwarf .
In the far distant  भविष्य  , the gravity of passing stars will gradually reduce the Sun 's retinue of planets .
कुछ ग्रह  will be destroyed , others ejected into interstellar space .
Ultimately , over the course of tens  of अरबों  of years , it is likely that the Sun will be left with none of the original bodies in orbit around it .
The Trial ( Kafka 's original German title : ,  बाद as , और ) is a अनोखा  written by Franz Kafka in 1914 and 1915 but not published until 1925 .
One of Kafka 's best-known works , it tells the story of a man arrested and prosecuted by a remote , inaccessible authority , with the nature of his crime revealed to  neither उसे nor the रीडर  .
Like Kafka 's other novels , The Trial was never  समाप्त , हालांकि it  does include a chapter which brings the story to an end .
Because of this there are certain inconsistencies which exist within the novel , such as disparities in timing in addition to other discontinuities in narration   .
After Kafka 's  मौत in 1924  his friend and literary executor Max Brod edited the text for publication by Verlag Die Schmiede .
The original manuscript is held at the  संग्रहालय of आधुनिक साहित्य  , Marbach am Neckar , Germany .
In 1999 , the  किताब थी सूचीबद्ध in le mondes  100 Books of the Century and as No . 2 of the Best German Novels of the Twentieth Century .
Lisa Anne Loeb ( born March 11 , 1968 ) is an American  singer-songwriter और अभिनेत्री  .
She launched  उसके करियर in 1994 साथ the  song , `` Stay ( I Missed You ) `` , which was included in the film Reality Bites .
She was the first artist to have a number one single in the United States while not signed to a  रिकॉर्डिंग अनुबंध  .
Her five studio CDs include her major label debut , the gold-selling Tails and  its  follow-up , the Grammy-nominated , gold-selling Firecracker .
Loeb has also worked in  फिल्मी , टेलीविज़न  , voice-over work and children’s recordings .
Loeb has appeared in two television series ,  dweezil & लिसा , a साप्ताहिक  culinary adventure for the Food Network and Number 1 Single , a reality show on the E !
Network in 2006 focused on her  क्वेस्ट लिये प्रेम , कामयाबी  , career , and family .
Her children 's music includes  the  albums Catch the Moon ( 2003 ) , and Camp Lisa ( 2008 ) .
Her first joint children 's book and album Lisa Loeb 's Silly Sing-Along : The Disappointing Pancake and Other Zany Songs was  प्रकाशित  in 2011 .
In 2010 she founded the Lisa Loeb Eyewear Collection , which  is आधारित on उसके अपना डिजाइन  .
The Coat of arms of the State of New Jersey  शामिलs:
A shield with three plows emblazoned , representative of New Jersey 's agricultural  परंपरा  .
A   forward-facing knight 's helmet .
A  घोड़ा 's सिर  as the crest of the helmet .
The female figures Liberty and Ceres   , representative of the state 's motto ( see next item ) .
Liberty is holding a staff supporting a  `` स्वतंत्रता कैप `` ; ceres  is holding an overflowing cornucopia .
The streamer at the foot of the emblem contains the State Motto of  नई जर्सी , `` स्वतंत्रता और समृद्धि  '' , and the year of statehood , 1776 .
It was originally designed by Pierre Eugene du Simitiere  in 1777 और थी  modified slightly in 1928 .
The seal is the central motif in the  ध्वज of  New Jersey and the Great Seal of the State of New Jersey .
the कोट of बाहें contains a घोड़ा 's सिर .
A helmet showing that New Jersey governs itself accordingly and three plows on a shield referring to  the राज्य 's कृषि  tradition , giving it the nickname `` Garden State '' .
The two  देवियाँ  represent the State motto , `` Liberty and Prosperity '' .
Liberty is on  the बाएँ  .
She is holding a staff with a liberty  कैप on it , और the  word liberty underneath her .
The  देवी  on the right is Ceres , goddess of agriculture .
She is holding a cornucopia with  समृद्धि  written below her .
According to the minutes of the New Jersey General Assembly for March 11 , 1896 , the date in which the Assembly officially approved the flag as the state emblem , the buff color is due indirectly to George Washington , who had ordered on October 2 , 1779 , that the uniform coats of the New Jersey Continental Line be dark  ( जर्सी ) ब्लू , साथ buff  facings .
Buff-colored facings had until then been reserved only for his own uniform  और those of अन्य  Continental generals and their aides .
Then , on February 28 , 1780 , the Continental War Officers in Philadelphia directed that the uniform coat facings of all regiments were to be the same as the background color of the  regiments  ' state flag .
The seal is  वर्णित in  New Jersey statute Title 52 , §2-1:
`` We Can Work It Out '' is a song by the Beatles , written by Paul  mccartney  and John Lennon .
It was released as a `` double  a-sided `` सिंगल साथ ``  Day Tripper `` , the first time both sides of a single were so designated in an initial release .
Both songs were recorded  दौरान  the Rubber Soul sessions .
The song is an example of Lennon–McCartney collaboration at a depth that happened only rarely after they wrote the hit singles  of 1963  .
This song , `` A Day in the Life `` , `` Baby , You 're a Rich Man `` and `` I  've मिला  a Feeling `` , are among the notable exceptions .
As a medical diagnosis , pedophilia or paedophilia is a psychiatric disorder in persons 16 years of age or older typically characterized by a primary or exclusive sexual interest toward prepubescent children ( generally age 11 years or younger , though specific diagnosis criteria for the disorder extends the cut-off point for  prepubescence to आयु  13 ) .
An adolescent who is 16 years of age or older must be at least five  सालो पुरानी than  the prepubescent child before the attraction can be diagnosed as pedophilia .
The term has a range of definitions , as found in psychiatry ,  मनोविज्ञान , the देशी , और  law enforcement .
The International Classification of Diseases ( ICD )  defines  pedophilia as a `` disorder of adult personality and behaviour '' in which there is a sexual preference for children of prepubertal or early pubertal age .
According to  the निदान और सांख्यिकीय हस्तचालित of दिमागी विकार ( dsm ) , it is a paraphilia in जिससे वयस्कों or adolescents 16 सालो of आयु or पुरानी have तीव्र और तूल यौन प्रेरणाएं towards और कल्पनाओं परिचय prepubescent children कि वे have either acted on or जिससे कारण उन्हें तकलीफ or interpersonal परेशानी .
In popular usage ,  pedophilia अर्थात् कोई यौन  interest in children or the act of child sexual abuse , often termed `` pedophilic behavior '' .
For example , The American Heritage Stedman 's Medical Dictionary states , `` Pedophilia  is the अधिनियम or काल्पनिक on the भाग of an वयस्क  of engaging in sexual activity with a child or children . ''
This common use application also extends to the sexual interest in and sexual contact with  रोमिल  or post-pubescent minors .
Researchers recommend that these imprecise uses be avoided because although  लोगों जो कमिट चाइल्ड यौन गाली commonly प्रदर्शनी the विकार  , some offenders do not meet the clinical diagnosis standards for pedophilia and these standards pertain to prepubescents .
Additionally , not all  pedophiles  actually commit such abuse .
Pedophilia was first formally recognized and  नामित  in the late 19th century .
A significant amount of  शोध in the  area has taken place since the 1980s .
Although mostly documented in men , there are also women who exhibit the disorder , and  शोधकर्ताओं assume उपलब्धियाँ  estimates underrepresent the true number of female pedophiles .
No cure  लिये pedophilia रै  been developed , but there are therapies that can reduce the incidence of a person committing child sexual abuse .
In the United States , following Kansas v. Hendricks , sex offenders who are diagnosed with certain mental disorders , particularly pedophilia , can be subject to indefinite civil commitment , under various state laws ( generically  पुकारा svp कानून ) और the  federal Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act of 2006 .
at उपस्थित  , the exact causes of pedophilia have not been conclusively established .
Research suggests that pedophilia may be correlated with several different neurological abnormalities , and often co-exists with other personality disorders and  मनोवैज्ञानिक pathologies  .
In the contexts of forensic psychology and law enforcement , a variety of typologies have been  सुझाया to categorize pedophiles  according to behavior and motivations .
Julio César  chávez ( born जूलियो césar chávez gonzález on जुलाई 12 , 1962  ) is a retired Mexican professional boxer .
Chávez is considered by many  लोगों लिये  their sport statistics the greatest fighter ever to come out of Mexico .
He is a six-time world  champion  in three weight divisions , and for several years he was considered one of the best pound-for-pound boxer in the world .
In a career that spanned over 25 years , Chávez won five world titles in three weight divisions  : wbc सुपर featherweight in 1984 , wba lightweight  in 1987 , WBC Lightweight in 1988 , WBC Light Welterweight in 1989 , IBF Light Welterweight in 1990 , and WBC Light Welterweight in 1994 .
He holds records for most  कामयाब लगातार defenses  of world titles ( 27 ) , most title fights ( 37 ) , most title-fight victories ( 31 ) and he is after Joe Louis with ( 23 ) for most title defenses won by knockout ( 21 ) .
Chávez also has the longest undefeated streak in boxing history , 13  सालो  .
His record was 89-0-1 going into his first loss to Frankie  रान्डेल और था an 87 लड़ो  win streak until his `` draw '' with Whitaker .
Julio César  chávez थी ज्ञात  for his outstanding punching power , devastating body attack , remarkably strong chin and the relentless stalking of his opponents .
He ranks # 24 on ESPN 's 50 Greatest  मुक्केबाज of  All Time .
On December 7 , 2010 , he was  inducted in the  prestigious International Boxing Hall of Fame for the Class of 2011 .
He is the father of prospect Omar Chávez  और पूर्व  WBC Middleweight Champion Julio César Chávez , Jr .
`` Selektion `` on the Judenrampe , Auschwitz ,  may/june  1944 .
To be sent to the right meant slave labor ; to the  बाएँ ,  the gas chamber .
This image shows the arrival of Hungarian Jews from  carpatho-ruthenia , अनेक of उन्हें इससे  the Berehov ghetto .
The photographer was Ernst Hofmann or Bernhard Walter of the SS . Image courtesy of Yad  vashem
The Holocaust ( from the Greek ' : hólos , `` whole '' and kaustós , `` burnt '' )  भी ज्ञात as the shoah ( यहूदी : , hashoah , `` प्रलय '' ; यहूदी  : , Churben or Hurban , from the Hebrew for `` destruction '' ) , was the mass murder or genocide of approximately six million Jews during World War II , a programme of systematic state-sponsored murder by Nazi Germany , led by Adolf Hitler and the Nazi Party , throughout German-occupied territory .
Of the nine million Jews who had resided in Europe before  the holocaust , लगभग two-thirds  were killed .
Over one million Jewish children were killed in the Holocaust , as were approximately two million Jewish  महिलाओं और तीन  million Jewish men .
A network of over 40,000 facilities in Germany  और german-occupied territory यहूद  used to concentrate , hold , and kill Jews and other victims .
Some scholars argue that the mass murder of the Romani and people with disabilities should be included in the definition , and some use the common noun `` holocaust '' to describe other Nazi mass murders , including those of Soviet prisoners of war , Polish and Soviet  नागरिकों , और homosexuals  .
Recent estimates based on figures obtained since the fall of the Soviet Union indicates some ten to eleven million civilians and prisoners of war were  intentionally murdered by the नाजी शासन .
The  persecution और नरसंहार  were carried out in stages .
Various laws to remove the Jews from civil society , most prominently the Nuremberg Laws , were   enacted in Germany years before the outbreak of World War II .
विशेषज्ञता शिविरों यहूद स्थापित  in which inmates were subjected to slave labor until they died of exhaustion or disease .
Where Germany conquered new territory in eastern Europe , specialized units called Einsatzgruppen murdered Jews and  राजनैतिक प्रतिद्वंद्वियों in द्रव्यमान  shootings .
The occupiers required Jews and Romani to be confined in overcrowded ghettos before being transported by freight train to extermination camps where , if they survived the journey , most  यहूद systematically मारे  in gas chambers .
Every arm of Germany 's bureaucracy was  शामिल  in the logistics that led to the genocides , turning the Third Reich into what one Holocaust scholar has called `` a genocidal state '' .
4-H in the United States is a youth organization administered by the National Institute of Food and Agriculture  of the संयुक्त राज्य विभाग of कृषि ( यूएसडीए  ) , with the mission of `` engaging youth to reach their fullest potential while advancing the field of youth development . ''
the नाम represents चार निजी  development areas of focus for the organization : head , heart , hands , and health .
The organization has over 6.5 million members in the United States , from  आयु पाँच to twenty-one  , in approximately 90,000 clubs .
The goal of 4-H is to develop citizenship , leadership , responsibility and life skills of youth through experiential learning programs and  a धनात्मक युवावस्था विकास  approach .
Though typically thought of as an agriculturally focused organization as a result of its history , 4-H today  focuses on नागरिकता , स्वस्थ जीना  , science , engineering , and technology programs .
Today , 4-H and related programs  मौजूद in over अस्सी देशों  around the world ; the organization and administration varies from country to country .
Each of these programs operates independently , but cooperatively through international exchanges , global education programs , and communications   .
The  4-h motto is `` to मेक the बेहतरीन  better '' , while its slogan is `` Learn by doing '' ( sometimes written as `` Learn to do by doing '' ) .
The national flag of Chile , consists of two unequal horizontal bands of white and red and a blue  वर्गाकार the वही ऊँचाई as the श्वेत बैंड in the कैण्टन  , which bears a white five-pointed star in the center .
It was adopted  on 18 अक्तूबर  1817 .
The Chilean flag is also  ज्ञात in स्पेनी as  La Estrella Solitaria ( The Lone Star ) .
The star represents a guide to progress and honor ; blue symbolizes the sky and the Pacific Ocean , white is for the snow-covered Andes , and red stands  लिये the  blood spilled to achieve independence .
According to the epic poem  la araucana  , the colors were derived from those from the flag flown by the Mapuche during the Arauco War .
`` Flag Day ''  is आयोजित  each year on the ninth of July to commemorate the 77 soldiers who died in the 1882 Battle of La Concepción .
पीढी y , भी  known as the Millennial Generation , is the demographic cohort following Generation X .
There are no  precise तिथियाँ लिये जब  Generation Y starts and ends .
Commentators use beginning birth dates from the latter 1970s , or from  the जल्दी 1980s  to the early 2000s .
the  Torches of Nero , by Henryk Siemiradzki .
According to  tacitus  , Nero targeted Christians as those responsible for the fire .
The Great Fire of Rome ( ) was an urban fire that occurred  शुरूआत  19 July AD 64 .
Virginia ( ) , officially the Commonwealth of Virginia , is a U.S. state located in the South Atlantic   region of the United States .
Virginia is nicknamed the `` Old Dominion '' and the `` Mother of  राष्ट्रपतियों  '' after the eight U.S. presidents born there .
The geography and climate of  the राष्ट्रमंडल हैं तराशा by the ब्लू  Ridge Mountains and the Chesapeake Bay , which provide habitat for much of its flora and fauna .
The capital of the  राष्ट्रमंडल is रिचमंड  ; and Virginia Beach is the most populous city .
Fairfax County is the most  populous  political subdivision .
The wealthiest is Loudoun  काउंटी  .
The Commonwealth 's population is  over  eight million .
The area 's history begins with several   indigenous groups , including the Powhatan .
In 1607 the London Company established  the उपनिवेश of वर्जिनिया  as the first permanent New World English colony .
Slave labor and the land acquired  from  displaced Native American tribes each played a significant role in the colony 's early politics and plantation economy .
Virginia was one of the 13 Colonies in the American  Revolution and joined  the Confederacy in the American Civil War , during which Richmond was made the Confederate capital and Virginia 's northwestern counties seceded to form the state of West Virginia .
Although the Commonwealth was under conservative single-party rule for nearly a century following Reconstruction , both major  नेशनल पार्टियों हैं प्रतिस्पर्धी in आधुनिक वर्जिनिया  .
The Virginia General Assembly is the oldest legislature in the Western  गोलार्ध .
The state government has been repeatedly  क्रमित  most effective by the Pew Center on the States .
it is अद्वितीय in कैसा it ट्रीट शहरों  and counties equally , manages local roads , and prohibits its governors from serving consecutive terms .
Virginia 's economy has many sectors : agriculture in the Shenandoah Valley ; federal agencies in Northern  वर्जिनिया , सहित the मुख्यालय of the विभाग of रक्षा  and CIA ; and military facilities in Hampton Roads , the site of the region 's main seaport .
Virginia 's public schools and many colleges and universities have contributed to  growing  media and technology sectors .
As a result ,  कंप्यूटर चिप्स have  become the state 's leading export .
Windows Movie Maker ( formerly known  as खिड़कियाँ सजीव फिल्म मेकर  , codenamed Sundance ) is a freeware video editing software by Microsoft .
It is a part of Windows Essentials  तन्त्र  suite and offers the ability to create and edit videos as well as to publish them on SkyDrive , Facebook , YouTube , and Flickr .
`` Brenda 's Got A Baby '' is the solo debut single  by तुपाक shakur , और दसवाँ track  from his debut album , 2Pacalypse Now .
The song , which  सुविधाएँ r & b सिंगर डेव hollister , is  about a twelve year-old girl named Brenda who lives in a ghetto , has a baby , and is incapable of supporting it .
The song explores the issue  of टीन गर्भावस्था  and its effect on the young mothers and their families .
Like many of Shakur 's songs , ``  ब्रेंडा 's मिला a baby '' draws  from the plight of the impoverished .
Using Brenda to represent young mothers in general , Shakur criticises the low level of support from the baby 's father , the government , and  society in  general .
Shakur wrote the song when he read a newspaper article about a twelve-year-old girl who got pregnant from her cousin and , because she did  नहीं want उसके अभिभावक to जान परिचय the baby ,  threw it in a trash can .
the आधिकारिक लोगो  of Pokémon for its international release ; `` Pokémon '' is short for the original Japanese title of `` Pocket Monsters '' .
is a media  मताधिकार प्रकाशित  and owned by Japanese video game company Nintendo and created by Satoshi Tajiri in 1996 .
Originally released as a pair of interlinkable Game Boy role-playing video games developed by Game Freak , Pokémon has since become the second-most successful and lucrative video game-based media franchise in the world , behind only  Nintendo  's own Mario franchise .
Pokémon properties have since been merchandised into  दुश्मनी , manga , व्यापार  cards , toys , books , and other media .
The  मताधिकार मनाये in 2006 , और , संचयी  sales of the video games ( including home console versions , such as the `` Pikachu '' Nintendo 64 ) have reached more than 200 million copies .
In November 2005 , 4Kids Entertainment ,  जिससे था प्रबंधित the non-game सम्बन्धित लाइसेंसिंग  of Pokémon , announced that it had agreed not to renew the Pokémon representation agreement .
Pokémon USA Inc. ( now The Pokémon Company International ) , a subsidiary of Japan 's  पोकीमॉन co. , अभी  oversees all Pokémon licensing outside of Asia .
The  नाम पोकीमॉन is  the romanized contraction of the Japanese brand .
The term Pokémon , in addition to referring to the Pokémon franchise itself , also collectively refers to the 649 fictional species that have made appearances in Pokémon media as of the release of the fifth generation titles Pokémon Black 2 and White 2 ; with the upcoming releases of Pokémon X and Y , 6 new Pokémon have  been featured in promotions for  the games .
`` Pokémon '' is identical in both the singular and plural , as is each individual species name ; it is grammatically correct to say `` one Pokémon '' and `` many Pokémon '' , as well as  `` एक pikachu `` और `` अनेक pikachu  '' .
Cover of the first edition of the publication Dada  by  Tristan Tzara ; Zurich , 1917
Dada ( ) or Dadaism was an art movement of the European avant-garde in the early 20th  century  .
अनेक अर्जी दादा began in  Zurich , Switzerland in 1916 , spreading to Berlin shortly thereafter but the height of New York Dada was the year before in 1915 .
To quote Dona Budd 's The Language of Art  ज्ञान , दादा थी born आउट of  negative reaction to the horrors of World War I .
This international movement was begun by a group of artist and poets  संबद्ध  with the Cabaret Voltaire in Zurich .
Dada  अस्वीकृत कारण  and logic , prizing nonsense , irrationality and intuition .
The origin of the name Dada is unclear ; some believe  कि it is a nonsensical शब्द .
Others maintain that it originates from the Romanian artists Tristan Tzara and Marcel Janco 's frequent use of  the शब्द da , da ,  meaning yes , yes in the Romanian language .
Another theory says that the name `` Dada '' came during a  बैठक of the समूह जब a पेपर चाकू stuck  into a French-German dictionary happened to point to 'dada ' , a French word for 'hobbyhorse ' .
The movement primarily involved visual arts , literature , poetry , art manifestoes , art theory , theatre , and graphic design , and concentrated its anti-war politics through  a अस्वीकृति of the प्रचलित मानकों in आर्ट  through anti-art cultural works .
In addition to being anti-war , Dada was also  anti- बुर्जुआ और था राजनैतिक  affinities with the radical left .
Dada activities included public gatherings , demonstrations , and publication  of art/literary  journals ; passionate coverage of art , politics , and culture were topics often discussed in a variety of media .
Key figures in the movement included Hugo Ball , Emmy Hennings , Hans Arp , Raoul Hausmann , Hannah Höch , Johannes Baader , Tristan Tzara , Francis Picabia , Richard Huelsenbeck , Georg Grosz ,  जॉन heartfield , मार्सल duchamp , beatrice लकडी  , Kurt Schwitters , and Hans Richter , among others .
The movement  बहकावे बाद शैलियाँ  like the avant-garde and downtown music movements , and groups including surrealism , Nouveau réalisme , pop art and Fluxus .
Dada is the groundwork to abstract art and sound poetry , a starting point for  प्रदर्शन आर्ट , a prelude to postmodernism , an  influence on pop art , a celebration of antiart to be later embraced for anarcho-political uses in the 1960s and the movement that lay the foundation for Surrealism .
पहला  trophic level .
The plants in this image ,  और  the algae and phytoplankton in the lake , are primary producers .
They take nutrients from the soil or the water , and manufacture their own food by photosynthesis ,  using उर्जा इससे the सूर्य  .
The trophic level of an organism  is the  position it occupies in a food chain .
The word trophic derives from the  यूनानी τροφή ( trophē ) referring  to food or feeding .
A food chain represents a succession of organisms that eat another  सजीव और  are , in turn , eaten themselves .
The number of steps an organism is from the start of the chain is a  माप  of its trophic level .
Food chains start at trophic  स्तर 1 साथ प्राथमिक  producers such as plants , move to herbivores at level 2 , predators at level 3 and typically finish with carnivores or apex predators at level 4 or 5 .
The path along the chain can form either a one-way flow , or a  खाना `` वेब  . ''
Ecological  समुदायों  with higher biodiversity form more complex trophic paths .
Four of  the  most important domesticated silk moths .
Top to bottom : Bombyx mori ,  hyalophora  cecropia , Antheraea pernyi , Samia cynthia .
From Meyers  konversations-lexikon  ( 1885-1892 )
A silk-producing  raspy  cricket .
Silk is a natural protein  fibre , कुछ  forms of which can be woven into textiles .
The protein fibre of silk is composed mainly of fibroin and  उत्पादित by  certain insect larvae to form cocoons .
The best-known type of silk is obtained from the cocoons of  the लार्वे of the शहतूत silkworm  Bombyx mori reared in captivity ( sericulture ) .
The shimmering appearance of silk is due to the triangular prism -like structure of the silk fibre , which allows silk cloth to refract incoming light at different angles , thus   producing different colors .
Silks are produced by several other insects , but generally only the silk of moth caterpillars has been used for textile  निर्माण  .
There has been some research  into अन्य silks , जिससे  differ at the molecular level .
Many silks are mainly produced by the larvae of  कीट  undergoing complete metamorphosis , but some adult insects such as webspinners produce silk , and some insects such as raspy crickets produce silk throughout their lives .
Silk production also occurs in Hymenoptera ( bees , wasps , and ants ) , silverfish , mayflies ,  thrips , leafhoppers , भृंग , lacewings  , fleas , flies and midges .
Other types of arthropod produce silk , most notably various arachnids such as spiders ( see   spider silk ) .
लेट दिखाएँ साथ दाउद लेटरमैन is an अमरीकी late-night बात दिखाएँ hosted by दाउद लेटरमैन on सीबीएस .
The show debuted  on August  30 , 1993 , and is produced by Letterman 's production company , Worldwide Pants Incorporated .
The show 's music director and band-leader of the house band ,  the सीबीएस ऑर्केस्ट्रा , is  Paul Shaffer .
The head  लेखक is मैट  Roberts and the announcer is Alan Kalter .
Of the  प्रमुख u.S. late-night  programs , Late Show ranks second in cumulative average viewers over time and third in number of episodes over time .
The  दिखाएँ लीड अन्य लेट  night shows in ad revenue with $ 271 million in 2009 .
In most U.S. markets the show airs at 11:35 p.m. Eastern/Pacific time , but is recorded Monday through   Wednesday at 4:30 p.m. , and Thursdays at 3:30 p.m and 6:00 p.m .
The second  गुरुवार  episode usually airs on Friday of that week .
In 2002 , Late Show with David  लेटरमैन  was ranked No . 7 on TV Guide 's 50 Greatest TV Shows of All Time .
CBS has a contract  साथ विश्वव्यापी पैंट to continue the  show through 2014 ; by then , Letterman will surpass Johnny Carson as the longest tenured late-night talk show host .
The Real Housewives of Orange County is an  अमरीकी वास्तविकता वृत्तचित्र  television program on Bravo , set in Orange County , California .
It was  the पहला  The Real Housewives program in the series .
The series is a voyeuristic look into the wealthy lives of these  housewives , as वे  shop , get plastic surgery , gossip , fight and live lavishly .
The financial crisis , the beginning of which coincided almost exactly with the first  ऋतु 's  broadcast , has since trimmed the housewives ' lifestyles with job losses , evictions , mortgage defaults , foreclosures , and marital stress—all recorded in progressive seasons of the show .
Cyberstalking is the use of the Internet or other electronic means to  stalk or  harass an individual , a group of individuals , or an organization .
It may include the  बनाना of गलत आरोपों  or statements of fact ( as in defamation ) , monitoring , making threats , identity theft , damage to data or equipment , the solicitation of minors for sex , or gathering information that may be used to harass .
The definition of `` harassment '' must meet the criterion that a reasonable person , in  कब्ज़ा of the वही सूचना , होता  regard it as sufficient to cause another reasonable person distress .
Cyberstalking is different from spatial or offline  stalking in  that it occurs through the use of electronic communications technology such as the internet .
However , it  sometimes  leads to it , or is accompanied by it .
Both are criminal  offenses  .
Cyberstalking shares important  विशेषताएँ  with offline stalking .
Many stalkers – online or  बंद – हैं  motivated by a desire to control their victims .
A cyberstalker may be an online stranger or a person whom the target  knows  .
A cyberstalker may be anonymous and may solicit involvement of other people online who do not even  जान the निशाना  .
Cyberstalking is  a दण्ड ठोकर  that comes into play under state anti-stalking laws , slander laws , and harassment laws .
A  cyberstalking conviction can परिणाम  in a restraining order , probation , or even criminal penalties against the assailant , including jail .
A business letter is usually used when writing from   one company to another , or for correspondence between such organizations and their customers , clients and other external parties .
The overall style of letter will depend on the  संबंध  between the parties concerned .
There  हैं अनेक कारण  to write a business letter .
It could be to request direct information or action from another party , to order supplies  इससे a प्रदायक , to पहचानो a  mistake that was committed , to reply directly to a request , to apologize for a wrong or simply to convey goodwill .
Even today , the business letter is still very useful because it produces a permanent record  , is गोपनीय , औपचारिक  and delivers persuasive , well-considered messages .
Tilapia ( ) is the common name for nearly a hundred species  of cichlid मछली इससे the tilapiine cichlid जनजाति  .
tilapia हैं मुख्यतः freshwater  fish , inhabiting shallow streams , ponds , rivers and lakes , and less commonly found living in brackish water .
Historically , they have been of  प्रमुख महत्व in कारीगर  fishing in Africa and the Levant , and are of increasing importance in aquaculture .
Tilapia can become  समस्यापूर्ण हृदयरोग प्रजाति in  new warm-water habitats , whether deliberately or accidentally introduced , but generally not in temperate climates due to their inability to survive in cooler waters below about .
Turner & Hooch is a 1989 comedy drama crime film starring Tom Hanks and Beasley the Dog as the eponymous characters , Turner and  hooch  respectively .
The film also stars Mare Winningham ,  क्रेग T. नेल्सन  , and Reginald VelJohnson .
It was directed by Roger Spottiswoode ; the film was originally slated to be directed by  हेनरी  Winkler , but he was terminated due to `` creative differences '' .
It was  co-written by माइकल blodgett  from Beyond the Valley of the Dolls fame .
Although K-9 ( with James Belushi ) was released prior to this film ( exactly three months earlier ) , Turner & Hooch became more popular and seemingly overshadowed its  वृहद कामयाबी , भी हालांकि k-9 था a बहुत  similar plot .
A pilot for a Turner &  hooch tv श्रेणी थी बना  and ran as a part of The Magical World of Disney .
This is a list of Israeli airports ,  sorted by स्थान  .
प्रवेश to  Ovda Airport
टर्मिनल 3 at  Ben Gurion
Plane landing at Be'er Sheva  ( teyman  )
Eilat  विमानक्षेत्र
Adolf Hitler ( ; 20 April 1889 – 30 April 1945 ) was an Austrian -born German  राजनेता और the नेता of the नाजी पार्टी (  ( NSDAP ) ; National Socialist German Workers Party ) .
He was chancellor of Germany from 1933 to 1945 and dictator  of  Nazi Germany ( as Führer und Reichskanzler ) from 1934 to 1945 .
Hitler was at the centre of Nazi Germany ,  संसार युद्ध ii  in Europe , and the Holocaust .
Hitler was a decorated  दिग्गज  of World War I .
He joined the German Workers ' Party ( precursor of the NSDAP )  in 1919 , और became नेता of  the NSDAP in 1921 .
In 1923 , he  attempted a तख्तापलट  d'état in Munich , known as the Beer Hall Putsch .
The failed coup resulted  in हिटलर 's कारावास , दौरान  which time he wrote his memoir , Mein Kampf ( My Struggle ) .
After his release in 1924 , Hitler gained popular support by attacking the Treaty  of Versailles  and promoting Pan-Germanism , antisemitism , and anti-communism with charismatic oratory and Nazi propaganda .
After his appointment as chancellor in 1933 , he transformed the Weimar Republic into the Third Reich  , a single-party  dictatorship based on the totalitarian and autocratic ideology of Nazism .
Hitler 's aim was to establish a New Order of absolute Nazi German  आधिपत्य  in continental Europe .
To this end , his foreign and domestic policies had the aim of seizing Lebensraum ( `` living space '' ) for  the germanic  people .
He directed the   rearmament of Germany and the invasion of Poland by the Wehrmacht in September 1939 , resulting in the outbreak of World War II in Europe .
Under Hitler 's rule , in 1941 German  शक्तियां और उनके यूरोपीय allies occupied  most of Europe and North Africa .
In 1943 , Germany had been forced onto the defensive and suffered a series  of escalating defeats .
In the final days of the war , during the Battle of Berlin in 1945 , Hitler married his  long-time संगी , एवा  Braun .
On 30 April 1945 , less than two days later ,   the two committed suicide to avoid capture by the Red Army , and their corpses were burned .
Hitler 's aggressive foreign policy  is माना the प्रमुख कारण of  the outbreak of World War II in Europe .
His antisemitic policies and racially motivated ideology resulted in the deaths of at least 5.5 million Jews , and millions of other people  deemed racially  inferior .
अंगूठा
A domain name is an  पहचान स्ट्रिंग कि  defines a realm of administrative autonomy , authority , or control on the Internet .
Domain names are formed by  the  rules and procedures of the Domain Name System ( DNS ) .
Technically  , कोई नाम पंजीकृत  in the DNS is a domain name .
डोमेन names  are used in various networking contexts and application-specific naming and addressing purposes .
In general , a domain name represents an Internet Protocol ( IP ) resource , such as a personal computer used to access the Internet , a server computer hosting  a वेब साईट  , or the web site itself or any other service communicated via the Internet .
Domain names are organized in subordinate  स्तर ( subdomains  ) of the DNS root domain , which is nameless .
The first-level set of domain names are the top-level domains ( TLDs ) , including the generic top-level  डोमेन ( gtlds  ) , such as the prominent domains com , info , net and org , and the country code top-level domains ( ccTLDs ) .
Below these top-level domains in the DNS hierarchy are the second-level and third-level domain names that are typically open for reservation by end-users who wish to connect local area networks  to the अंतरजाल ,  create other publicly accessible Internet resources or run web sites .
The registration of these domain names is usually administered by domain  नाम registrars जो बेचें उनके  services to the public .
A fully qualified domain name ( FQDN ) is a domain name  कि is completely निर्दिष्ट  in the hierarchy of the DNS , having no omitted parts .
Domain names are usually written in lowercase , although labels  in the  Domain Name System are case-insensitive .
Nitrate is a polyatomic ion with the molecular formula NO3− and a molecular mass of  62.0049 g/mol . nitrates  also describe the organic functional group RONO2 .
These nitrate esters  हैं a  specialized class of explosives .
A wheat  कटाई  in Idaho
इस फ़ोटो  from a 1921 encyclopedia shows a tractor ploughing a crop field .
Agriculture is a major industry in the  संयुक्त राज्य और the देश is  a net exporter of food .
As of the last census of agriculture in 2007 , there were 2.2   million farms , covering an area of , an average of per farm .
Although agricultural activity occurs in most states ,  it is विशेषकर  concentrated in the vast expanse of flat , arable land known as the Great Plains , which encompasses the central region of the nation .
The Mpemba effect , named after Tanzanian student Erasto Mpemba , is the assertion that warmer water  can  freeze faster than colder water .
Although there is anecdotal  support लिये the  effect , there is no agreement on exactly what the effect is and under what circumstances it occurs .
There have been reports of similar phenomena since  प्राचीन  times , although with insufficient detail for the claims to be replicated .
The phenomenon seems contrary to  ऊष्मागतिकी  , but a number of possible explanations for the effect have been proposed .
Further investigations will need to decide on a  precise परिभाषा of  `` freezing '' and control a vast number of starting parameters in order to confirm or explain the effect .
The Siamese ( , ) is one of the first  distinctly पहचाना  breeds of Oriental cat .
The breed  originated in थाईलैंड ( formerly  known as Siam ) , where they are one of several native breeds and are called Wichian Mat ( วิเชียรมาศ , a name meaning `` moon diamond '' ) .
In the 20th century the Siamese cat  became एक of the सबसे लोकप्रिय  breeds in Europe and North America .
Quality Food Centers ( QFC ) is a supermarket chain based in Bellevue , Washington , with 64 stores in the Puget Sound region of Washington state and in the  पोर्टलैंड , ऑरेगॉन महानगर  area .
In economics , the money supply or money stock , is the total amount of  मौद्रिक एसेट उपलब्धियाँ in an  economy at a specific time .
There are several ways to define `` money , '' but standard measures usually  शामिल करेंसी in परिसंचरण और माँग  deposits ( depositors ' easily accessed assets on the books of financial institutions ) .
Money  सप्लाई  data are recorded and published , usually by the government or the central bank of the country .
Public and private sector  विश्लेषकों have long monitored परिवर्तन  in money supply because of its effects on the price level , inflation , the exchange rate and the business cycle .
That relation between money and prices is  historically  associated with the quantity theory of money .
There is strong empirical evidence of a direct relation between  money-supply  growth and long-term price inflation , at least for rapid increases in the amount of money in the economy .
That is , a country such as Zimbabwe which saw rapid increases in its money supply also saw rapid increases in  कीमतें ( hyperinflation  ) .
This  is एक कारण लिये the रिलायंस on मौद्रिक नीति as a अर्थात् of controlling महंगाई .
The nature of  इस causal  chain is the subject of contention .
Some heterodox economists argue that the money supply is endogenous ( determined by the workings of the  अर्थव्यवस्था , नहीं by the सेंट्रल बैंको ) और कि the स्त्रोत  of inflation must be found in the distributional structure of the economy .
In addition , those economists seeing the central bank 's control over the money supply as feeble say that  वहीँ हैं दो कमजोर  links between the growth of the money supply and the inflation rate .
First , in the aftermath of a recession , when many resources are underutilized , an increase in the money supply can cause a sustained increase in real production instead of   inflation .
Second , if the velocity of  धन , i.e.  , the ratio between nominal GDP and money supply , changes , an increase in the money supply could have either no effect , an exaggerated effect , or an unpredictable effect on the growth of nominal GDP .
लोगो लिये  IMAX .
Warren Theatre IMAX cinema , Wichita ,  कान्सास  , USA , 601 seats .
A comparison between 35 mm and 15/70  mm ऋणात्मक  areas .
IMAX  ( an संक्षिप्त  for Image Maximum ) is a motion picture film format and a set of cinema projection standards created by the Canadian company IMAX Corporation .
IMAX has the capacity to record and display images of far  वृहद आकार और रेज़ोल्यूशन  than conventional film systems .
चूंकि 2002 , कुछ विशेषता  films have been converted ( or upgraded ) into IMAX format for display in IMAX theatres and some have also been partially shot in IMAX .
IMAX is the most  widely प्रयुक्त प्रणाली लिये special-venue  film presentations .
, there are 697  imax थिएटर  in 52 countries .
Today 's Special is a Canadian children 's  टेलीविज़न दिखाएँ उत्पादित by क्लाइव vanderburgh  at TVOntario from 1981 to 1987 .
It  भी भागा on निकलोडियन  and the Faith and Values Channel/Odyssey ( now the Hallmark Channel ) as well as many PBS stations throughout the United States .
It was set in a department store , based on the flagship location of the now  defunct  Simpson 's in Toronto .
Many sequences for it were shot at the Queen Street West  और yonge गली  store after hours .
Constitutionalism , in its most general meaning , is `` a complex of ideas , attitudes , and patterns of behavior elaborating the principle that the authority of government derives  from and is limited by a  body of fundamental law '' .
A political organization is constitutional to the extent that it `` contain [ s ] institutionalized mechanisms of power  कंट्रोल लिये the सुरक्षा of the रूचि  and liberties of the citizenry , including those that may be in the minority `` .
As described by   political scientist and constitutional scholar David Fellman :
An ice-cream headache , also known as brain freeze ,  cold-stimulus सिरदर्द ,  or its given scientific name sphenopalatine ganglioneuralgia ( meaning `` nerve pain of the sphenopalatine ganglion `` ) , is a form of brief cranial pain or headache commonly associated with consumption ( particularly quick consumption ) of cold beverages or foods such as ice cream and ice pops .
It is caused by having something cold touch the roof of the mouth ( palate ) , and is believed to result from a  तंत्रिका जवाब causing रैपिड constriction  and swelling of blood vessels or a `` referring `` of pain from the roof of the mouth to the head .
The rate of intake for cold foods has  महरूम पढ़ाई  as a contributing factor .
There are people who can not experience `` brain freeze '' or  समान लक्षण  .
The term ice-cream headache has  महरूम in उपयोग चूंकि  at least 31 January 1937 , contained in a journal entry by Rebecca Timbres published in the 1939 book We did n't ask Utopia : a Quaker family in Soviet Russia .
The first published  उपयोग of the पद दिमाग  freeze , as it pertains to cold-induced headaches , was on 27 May 1991 .
`` Auld Lang Syne '' ( : note `` s   '' rather than `` z '' ) is a Scots poem written by Robert Burns in 1788 and set to the tune of a traditional folk song ( Roud # 6294 ) .
It is well known in many countries , especially in the English-speaking world ; its traditional use being to celebrate the start of the New Year  at the  stroke of midnight .
By extension , it  is भी सुंग at अंत्येष्टि  , graduations and as a farewell or ending to other occasions .
The international Boy Scout youth movement  ,  in many countries , uses it as a close to jamborees and other functions .
The song 's Scots title  may be अनूदित into अंग्रेज़ी वस्तुतः as `` बूढ़ा  long since '' , or more idiomatically , `` long long ago '' , `` days gone by '' or `` old times '' .
Consequently `` For  auld लैंग syne '' ,  as it appears in the first line of the chorus , might be loosely translated as `` for ( the sake of ) old times '' .
The phrase  `` auld लैंग  Syne '' is also used in similar poems by Robert Ayton ( 1570–1638 ) , Allan Ramsay ( 1686–1757 ) , and James Watson ( 1711 ) as well as older folk songs predating Burns .
Matthew  fitt उपयोग  the phrase `` In the days of auld lang syne '' as the equivalent of `` Once upon a time ...
`` in his retelling of fairy tales in the   Scots language .
Ben Schulz , player of Leeroy Jenkins at BlizzCon  2007
Leeroy Jenkins , sometimes misspelled Leroy Jenkins and   often elongated with numerous additional letters , is an Internet meme named for a player character created by Ben Schulz in Blizzard Entertainment 's MMORPG , World of Warcraft .
The character  became लोकप्रिय  due to a video of the game that circulated around the Internet .
The phenomenon has since spread beyond the boundaries of the gaming  जातियाँ into अन्य  online and mainstream media .
Oscar Grant was fatally shot by BART police officer Johannes Mehserle in Oakland , California  , संयुक्त राज्य , in the जल्दी morning घंटों of नई  Year 's Day 2009 .
Responding to  रिपोर्ट्स of a लड़ो on a भीड़ खाड़ी क्षेत्रफल रैपिड पारगमन ट्रैन  returning from San Francisco , BART Police officers detained Oscar Grant and several other passengers on the platform at the Fruitvale BART Station .
अधिकारी योहानेस  Mehserle and another officer were restraining Grant , who was prostrate and allegedly resisting arrest .
Officer  mehserle  stood and , according to witnesses , said : `` Get back , I 'm gon na tase him . ''
Then Mehserle drew his gun and shot Grant once in the back ; Mehserle appeared stunned , put his hands to his  सिर और exclaimed  , `` Oh , my God ! ''
During his court testimony , Mehserle said that Grant then  exclaimed  , `` You shot me ! ''
Grant turned out to be unarmed ; he was  सुनाया मुर्दे the अगला morning at highland हॉस्पिटल  in Oakland .
The events were captured on  अनेक  digital video and cell phone cameras .
the फुटेज थी disseminated to  media outlets and to various websites , where it was watched millions of times .
the following दिनों देखी दोनो शांतिपूर्ण और हिंसक विरोध  .
The shooting has been variously labeled an involuntary  manslaughter  and a summary execution .
On January 13 , Alameda County prosecutors charged Mehserle with murder for the  शूटिंग  .
He resigned   his position and pleaded not guilty .
The trial began   on June 10 , 2010 .
Michael Rains ,  mehserle 's दण्ड रक्षा attorney , argued कि mehserle  mistakenly shot Grant with his pistol , intending to use his Taser when he saw Grant reaching for his waistband .
Pretrial filings argue that his client did not commit first-degree murder and asked a Los Angeles judge to instruct the jury to limit its deliberations to either second-degree murder or  acquittal  .
Oakland civil rights attorney John  burris दायर a $ 25 लाख  wrongful death claim against BART on behalf of Grant 's family .
On July 8 , 2010 , the jury returned its verdict : Mehserle was found guilty of involuntary   manslaughter and not guilty of second-degree murder and voluntary manslaughter .
Initial protests against the  सत्ताधारी यहूद शांतिपूर्वक व्यवस्थित  ; looting , arson , destruction of property , and small riots broke out after dark .
nearly  80 people were eventually arrested .
On Friday , July 9 , 2010 , the U.S. Justice Department opened a civil rights case against Mehserle ;  the संघीय सरकारी can prosecute उसे independently  for the same act under the separate sovereigns exception to double jeopardy .
The  विभाग of इंसाफ होगा be working साथ the u.S.  Attorney 's office in San Francisco and the FBI .
On November 5 , 2010 , Mehserle was sentenced to two  सालो , ऋण  time served .
He served his  समय in the लॉस एंजिल्स  County Jail , occupying a private cell away from other prisoners .
He  थी released  on June 13 , 2011 and is now on parole .
Major  प्रतिनिधि  of the Harlem Renaissance .
The Harlem Renaissance was a cultural  गति  that spanned the 1920s .
at the समय , it थी ज्ञात as the `` नई नीग्रो गति '' , नामित बाद the 1925 anthology by alain locke  .
Though it was centered in the Harlem neighborhood of New York City , many  french-speaking ब्लैक लेखक  from African and Caribbean colonies who lived in Paris were also influenced by the Harlem Renaissance .
The Harlem Renaissance is unofficially recognized to  have spanned इससे परिचय 1919  until the early or mid-1930s .
Many of  इसके विचार  lived on much longer .
The zenith of this `` flowering of Negro literature '' , as James Weldon Johnson preferred to call the Harlem Renaissance , was placed between 1924 ( the year that  अवसर : a जर्नल of नीग्रो जीवन hosted a पार्टी लिये ब्लैक लेखक जहाँ  many white publishers were in attendance ) and 1929 ( the year of the stock market crash and the beginning of the Great Depression ) .
African States between 500  bce और  1500 CE
Obelisk at temple of  लक्सर , मिश्र  .
c. 1200  BCE .
African  नाईट  of Baguirmi in full padded armour suit .
The history of Africa begins with the prehistory of Africa and the emergence of Homo sapiens in East Africa , continuing into the present as a patchwork of diverse and  नीतियां  developing nation states .
Some  जल्दी प्रमाण  of agriculture in Africa dates from 16,000 BCE , and metallurgy from about 4000 BCE .
The recorded history of early civilization  arose in मिश्र , और बाद  in Nubia , the Maghreb and the Horn of Africa .
During the Middle Ages , Islam  स्प्रेड through  the regions .
क्रासिंग  the Maghreb and the Sahel , a major center of Muslim culture was Timbuktu .
Some notable pre-colonial states and societies in Africa include the Nok culture , Mali Empire , Ashanti Empire , Kingdom of  mapungubwe , किंगडम of ज्या , किंगडम of saloum , किंगडम of baol  , Kingdom of Zimbabwe , Kingdom of Kongo , Ancient Carthage , Numidia , Mauretania , the Aksumite Empire , the Ajuuraan State and the Adal Sultanate .
From  the लेट 15th सदी , europeans  and Arabs took slaves from West , Central and Southeast Africa overseas in the African slave trade .
European colonization of Africa developed rapidly in the Scramble for Africa of the  लेट 19th और जल्दी 20th  centuries .
Following struggles for independence in many parts of the continent , as  खूब as a weakened यूरोपीय बाद the दूसरी  World War ; decolonization took place .
Africa 's history has been challenging for  शोधकर्ताओं in the फ़ील्ड of  African studies because of the scarcity of written sources in large parts of sub-Saharan Africa .
Scholarly techniques such as the recording of oral history , historical linguistics , archaeology and genetics  have  been crucial .
Curry Foley was the first player in  प्रमुख लीग बेसबॉल  history to hit for the cycle .
In baseball , hitting for the cycle is the accomplishment of one  बैटर hitting a सिंगल  , a double , a triple , and a home run in the same game .
Collecting the  हिट्स in  that order is known as a `` natural cycle '' .
Cycles are uncommon in  प्रमुख लीग बेसबॉल  ( MLB ) , and have occurred 294 times since the first by Curry Foley in 1882 .
The cycle is   roughly as common as a no-hitter ( 279 occurrences in MLB history ) ; it has been called `` one of the rarest '' and `` most difficult feats '' in baseball .
Based on 2009 offensive levels , the probability of an average MLB player hitting for a  साईकिल विरूद्ध an औसत टोली  in a game is approximately 0.00590 % ; this corresponds to about 2.5 cycles in a 162-game season with 30 teams .
In other  बेसबॉल  leagues , the cycle is achieved less frequently .
Through September 4 , 2008 , 62 players in Nippon Professional Baseball ( NPB ) , the top-level baseball organization in  जापानी , have hit लिये  the cycle , the most recent being Michihiro Ogasawara .
Two players have hit for the cycle on the same day once in NPB history ; this has  occurred twice in एमएलबी  history .
One NPB player has also hit  लिये the  cycle in an NPB All-Star game .
No player has ever hit for the cycle in the MLB  all-star खेल or the postseason  .
The main slave  रूट in  medieval Africa .
This article discusses systems , history , and  प्रभाव  of slavery within Africa .
See  अरब  slave trade , Atlantic slave trade , Maafa , and Slavery in contemporary Africa for other discussions .
`` Slave transport in  अफ़्रीकी '' .
Europeans usually did not enter the interior  regions .
Slavery in Africa has existed throughout the continent for  अनेक सदियां  , and continues in the current day .
Systems of  servitude और गुलामी यहूद आम in अनेक भाग  of the continent , as they were in much of the ancient world .
In most African societies where slavery was prevalent  , the enslaved people were  largely treated as indentured servants and not treated as chattel slaves .
When the Arab slave trade and Atlantic slave trade began , many of the local slave systems  बदला और began supplying  captives for slave markets outside of Africa .
Slavery in historical Africa was practiced in many different forms and some of these do not clearly fit the definitions of slavery  elsewhere in the संसार  .
Debt slavery , enslavement of war captives , military  गुलामी  , and criminal slavery were all practiced in various parts of Africa .
Although there had been some trans-Saharan trade from the interior of Sub-Saharan Africa to other regions , slavery was a small part of the economic life of many societies in Africa until the  परिचय of transcontinental स्लेव ट्रेड ( अरब  and Atlantic ) .
Slave practices were again transformed   with European colonization of Africa and the formal abolition of slavery in the early 1900s .
Windows Task Manager is a task manager or System monitor application included with the Microsoft Windows NT family of operating systems that provides limited information about computer performance and running applications , processes and CPU usage , commit charge and memory information , network activity and statistics , logged-in users , and system services ( and as often is the case with software tools provided by Microsoft for Windows , 3rd party software is available which  भरता the आवश्यकताएँ  more thoroughly , e.g , `` Process Explorer '' , `` Extended Task Manager '' , `` Anvir Task Manager '' , `` Process Hacker '' , and `` System Explorer '' ) .
The Task Manager can also be used to  नियत प्रक्रम प्राथमिकताएं  , processor affinity , forcibly terminate processes , and shut down , restart , hibernate or log off from Windows .
Windows Task Manager was introduced with  खिड़कियाँ nt 4.0  .
Previous versions of Windows NT included the Task List application  ,  which had far fewer features .
The task list was capable of listing currently running  प्रक्रियाओं और हत्या उन्हें ,  or creating a new process .
In Windows XP only , a Shutdown menu is also present that  allows अभिगम to standby ,  Hibernate , Turn off , Restart , Log Off and Switch User .
Earlier versions of Microsoft Windows ( Microsoft Windows 3.x , Windows 95 ,  खिड़कियाँ 98 ) था a कार्यक्रम ज्ञात as कार्य  to display the programs currently running .
This file was executed by  कार्यशील the taskman.exe  file from the C : \Windows directory .
The Troop is an  american-canadian live-action , सिंगल कैमरा कॉमेडी -adventure  television series about a trio of teenagers who fight and capture monsters and other supernatural phenomena that invade the fictional town of Lakewood .
Created and executive produced by Max  burnett , ग्रेग  Coolidge and Chris Morgan , the series premiered on Nickelodeon on September 18 , 2009 .
The second season premiered on June 25 , 2011 and Nickelodeon cancelled the  श्रेणी मिडवे through  it 's second season .
The remaining episodes of season 2 were aired on Nicktoons  मगर the पिछला  3..
Sparsely populated in relation to its  क्षेत्रफल , the लोकतांत्रिक गणतंत्र of the कांगो ( drc ) is घर  to a vast potential of natural resources and mineral wealth , its untapped deposits of raw minerals are estimated to be worth in excess of US $ 24 trillion , yet the economy of the DRC has declined drastically since the mid-1980s .
At the time of its independence in 1960 , DRC was the second most industrialized country in Africa after South Africa ; it boasted a thriving mining sector and its agriculture  सेक्टर थी अपेक्षाकृत  productive .
If the viewer stares at this image for 20–60 seconds and  stares at a  white object , a negative afterimage will appear ( in this case , it will be cyan on magenta ) .
This can also be  हासिल by the दर्शक  closing his/her eyes and tilting their head up .
An  afterimage or भुत चित्र or चित्र burn-in  is an optical illusion that refers to an image continuing to appear in one 's vision after the exposure to the original image has ceased .
One of the most common afterimages is the bright glow that seems  to float  before one 's eyes after looking into a light source for a few seconds .
Closing the eye can help  achieve a बेहतर भाव  of the color in its own aspect .
Afterimages come in two forms  , ऋणात्मक ( उलट  ) and positive ( retaining original color ) .
The process behind positive afterimages is unknown , though thought to be related  to neural  adaptation .
On the other hand , negative afterimages are a retinal phenomenon and are   well understood .
Lost is an  अमरीकी सीरियल  drama television series that premiered on September 22 , 2004 on the American Broadcasting Company ( ABC ) .
The series was created by J. J. Abrams  और डैमन lindelof  , based upon an original pilot script titled Nowhere written by Jeffrey Lieber .
Six seasons of the show  aired , in जोड to  numerous clip shows to recap previous episodes .
एबीसी घोषित कि खोया  would end after six seasons , having produced a total of 121 episodes .
The series follows the past , present , and future experience (  s ) of the survivors  of a plane crash on a passenger jet , Oceanic Flight 815 , flying from Sydney to Los Angeles after it crashes on a tropical island in the South Pacific .
The series also includes stories of the lives of people already living on the island — they include the `` Others `` , who initially antagonize the   survivors , as well as a group of people who arrive on the freighter Kahana .
Each episode typically features action on the island as well as a secondary  कथानक इससे another  point in a character 's life .
Season 6 features a detailing of the lives of  the survivors in a  different reality , as if the flight had never crashed .
In the following list , the term `` featured character ( s ) '' refers to the character or characters who are  प्रदर्शित in  the secondary storyline of each episode .
``  no  .
in series '' refers to the episode 's number in the  overall  series , whereas `` No .
in  ऋतु '' refers  to the episode 's number in each particular season .
`` U.S. viewers ( million ) '' refers to the number  of अमेरिकी in  millions who watched the episode live .
A total of 121 episodes of Lost were produced , the last of which aired  on may 23 ,  2010 .
All seasons are available on DVD in Regions 1–4 and  on blu-ray in regions  A and B .
Flat feet ( also called pes planus or fallen arches ) is a formal reference to a medical condition in which the arch of the foot collapses  , साथ the संपूर्ण एकमात्र of  the foot coming into complete or near-complete contact with the ground .
In some individuals ( an estimated 20–30 % of the general population ) the arch simply never develops in one foot (  unilaterally ) or दोनो फीट ( bilaterally  ) .
Three studies ( see citations below in military section ) of military recruits have shown  no प्रमाण  of later increased injury , or foot problems , due to flat feet , in a population of people who reach military service age without prior foot problems .
However  ,  these studies can not be used to judge possible future damage from this condition when diagnosed at younger ages .
They also can not be  लागू to व्यक्तियों जिनकी चपटा  feet are associated with foot symptoms , or certain symptoms in other parts of the body ( such as the leg or back ) possibly referable to the foot .
Generation X , commonly abbreviated to Gen X , is the generation born after the  पश्चिमी post-world युद्ध ii baby  boom .
Demographers , historians and commentators use beginning birth dates from the  जल्दी 1960s to the जल्दी 1980s  .
The term was  popularized  by Douglas Coupland 's 1991 novel Generation X : Tales for an Accelerated Culture .
Before that , it had  महरूम  used for various subcultures or countercultures after the 1950s .
Pressure ulcers , also known as decubitus  छाले or bedsores , हैं स्थानीयकृत  injuries to the skin and/or underlying tissue usually over a bony prominence , as a result of pressure , or pressure in combination with shear and/or friction .
Most commonly this will be the sacrum , coccyx , heels or the hips , but other  साइट ऐसे as the elbows , अदब , ankles  or the back of the cranium can be affected .
The cause of pressure ulcers is pressure  लागू to नरम ऊतक  so that blood flow to the soft tissue is completely or partially obstructed .
Shear is also a cause ; shear pulls on blood vessels  कि फीड  the skin .
Pressure ulcers most commonly develop in persons who are  नहीं  moving about or are confined to wheelchairs .
It is widely believed that other factors can influence the tolerance of skin for  दबाव और shear thereby  increasing the risk of pressure ulcer development .
These factors are protein-calorie malnutrition , microclimate ( skin wetness caused by sweating or incontinence ) , diseases that reduce blood flow to the skin , such as arteriosclerosis or diseases that reduce the feeling in the skin , such as paralysis or  न्यूरोपैथी  .
The healing of pressure ulcers may be slowed by the age of  the व्यक्ति , चिकित्सा शर्तें  ( such as arteriosclerosis , diabetes or infection ) , smoking or medications such as antiinflammatory drugs .
Although often prevented and treatable if found early , pressure ulcers can be very difficult to prevent in  critically  ill patients , frail elders , wheelchair users ( especially where spinal injury is involved ) and terminally ill patients .
Primary prevention is to redistribute   pressure by turning the patient regularly .
The benefit of turning to avoid further sores is well  प्रलेखित  since at least the 19th century .
In addition to turning and re-positioning the patient in bed or  व्हीलचेयर  , eating a balanced diet with adequate protein and keeping the skin free from exposure to urine and stool is very important .
The prevalence of  दबाव छाले  in hospital settings is high , but improvements are being made .
According  to  the 2010 IPUP ( International Pressure Ulcer Prevalence Survey ) conducted in Canada , there was a significant decrease in the overall facility-acquired prevalence of pressure ulcers from 2009-2010 .
Ulcers were most commonly  पहचाना at the sacral/coccyx अल्सर स्थान ; however  , heel ulcers were the most common facility-acquired location in the survey .
Overboard is a 1987 American romantic comedy film  अभिनीत goldie  Hawn and Kurt Russell .
It was directed by Garry Marshall , produced by Roddy McDowell ,  और loosely प्रेरित by the 1974 इतालवी फिल्मी  Swept Away .
In  फेरे , overboard  was adapted into the 2006 South Korean television series , Couple or Trouble .
Green Bay  is a city  in and the county seat of Brown County in the U.S. state of Wisconsin , located at the head of Green Bay , a sub-basin of Lake Michigan , at the mouth of the Fox River .
It has an elevation  of ऊपर समुद्र स्तर  and is located north of Milwaukee .
The population was 104,057 at  the 2010  census .
It is the third-largest city in the state of Wisconsin , after Milwaukee and  मैडिसन  .
It is also the third-largest city on the west  shore of झील मिशिगन  , after Chicago and Milwaukee .
Green Bay is home to the Green Bay Packers of the National  फ़ुटबॉल  League , making it by far the smallest metropolitan area in the USA to host a major professional sports franchise .
Green Bay is the principal city of the Green Bay Metropolitan Statistical Area , which covers Brown , Kewaunee , and Oconto Counties  और था a संयुक्त जनसांख्यिकी  of 282,599 at the 2000 census .
Green Bay is  an औद्योगिक नगर साथ अनेक meatpacking  and paper plants , and a port on Green Bay , an arm of Lake Michigan that locals call the Bay of Green Bay , to avoid conflating it with the eponymous city .
It is home to the National Railroad Museum ; the Neville Public Museum , with  प्रदर्शनियों  of art , history , and science ; and the University of Wisconsin–Green Bay .
Luteinizing hormone ( LH , also known as lutropin and sometimes lutrophin )  is a हार्मोन उत्पादित by gonadotroph  cells in the anterior pituitary gland .
In females , an acute rise of LH ( `` LH surge '' ) triggers  ovulation और विकास  of the corpus luteum .
in males , जहाँ lh था भी महरूम पुकारा अंतरालीय cell-stimulating हार्मोन ( icsh ) , it stimulates leydig कोशिका उत्पादन of टेस्टोस्टेरोन  .
It acts  synergistically  with FSH .
Selena  quintanilla-pérez (  April 16 , 1971 – March 31 , 1995 ) , known simply as Selena , was an American singer-songwriter .
She was named the `` top Latin artist of the '90s '' and `` Best selling Latin artist  of the दशक '' by बिलबोर्ड लिये उसके  fourteen top-ten singles in the Top Latin Songs chart , including seven number-one hits .
सेलिना था the सबसे  successful singles of 1994 and 1995 , `` Amor Prohibido `` and `` No Me Queda Más `` .
She was called `` The Queen of Tejano music `` and the Mexican equivalent of  मैडोना  .
Selena  released उसके  first album , Selena y Los Dinos , at the age of twelve .
She won Female Vocalist of the Year at the 1987 Tejano Music Awards and landed a recording  अनुबंध साथ emi a few  years later .
Her fame grew throughout the early 1990s , especially in  spanish-speaking देशों , और वो  had begun recording in English as well .
Selena was murdered at the age of 23 on March 31 , 1995 by Yolanda  saldívar , the पूर्व अध्यक्ष  of her fan club .
On April 12 , 1995 , two weeks after her death , George W. Bush , governor of Texas at the time , declared her birthday ``  सेलिना दिन ''  in Texas .
Warner Bros. produced Selena , a film  आधारित  on her life starring Jennifer Lopez , in 1997 .
Selena 's  जीवन थी भी  the basis of the musical Selena Forever starring Veronica Vazquez as Selena .
In June 2006 Selena was commemorated with a life-sized bronze statue ( Mirador  de la flor in कॉर्पस  Christi , Texas ) and a Selena museum opened there .
She has sold over 60 million albums worldwide , making her one of the best-selling  कलाकारों of  all time .
She is also the only female artist to have five albums in U.S .  बिलबोर्ड  200 at the same time .
जर्मनी stahlhelm  from World War II
Insignia of the Bolivian Army Colorados regiment , showing a  stahlhelm और दो crossed bayonets
stahlhelm ( बहुवचन ,  Stahlhelme ) is German for `` steel helmet '' .
The Imperial German Army began to replace the traditional boiled-leather Pickelhaube ( spiked combat helmet ) with  the stahlhelm  during World War I in 1916 .
The term Stahlhelm refers both to a generic steel helmet , and more specifically to the distinctive  ( और iconic ) जर्मनी  design .
The Stahlhelm , with its distinctive `` coal scuttle `` shape , was an instantly recognizable icon for military imagery and became a common element of  सैन्य प्रचार on दोनो  sides , just like the Pickelhaube before it .
Its name was also used by the Stahlhelm , a paramilitary  राष्ट्रवादी  organization established at the end of 1918 .
glow-in-the-dark  may refer to:
जीवदीप्ति  , the production and emission of light by a living organism
Chemiluminescence , is the emission of light (  संदीप्ति  ) without emission of heat
Phosphorescence , a  विशिष्ट प्रकार of photoluminescence  related to fluorescence
Radioluminescence , production of  संदीप्ति  in a material by the bombardment of ionizing radiation
Glow in the Dark Tour , a 2008  कॉन्सर्ट  tour by Kanye West
Frankfurt  विमानक्षेत्र serves  as a hub city for Lufthansa and receives flights from Star Alliance carriers .
Airline  hubs हैं एयरपोर्ट क्रमित as विशाल  , medium , small , and non-hubs as one of the FAA airport categories which are re-evaluated every year based on number of commercial passengers .
The more common but informal use for the phrase airline  हब is an विमानक्षेत्र  that an airline uses as a transfer point to get passengers to their intended destination .
It is part of a hub and spoke model , where travelers moving between airports not  परोसा  by direct flights change planes en route to their destinations .
This is as opposed to the  पाइंट to  Point model .
Many hubs of the airlines are also situated  at एयरपोर्ट  in the cities of the respective head offices .
Some  एयरलाइंस  may use only a single hub , while other airlines use multiple hubs .
Hubs are used  लिये दोनो यात्री फ़्लाइट  as well as cargo flights .
Many airlines also  उपयोग फ़ोकस शहरों  , which function much the same as hubs .
Airlines may also use  द्वितीयक  hubs , a non-technical term for large focus cities .
A hub in the middle of a route is more effective than at either end as connecting  traffic  more easily fills the plane - passengers prefer a one-stop ( two-leg ) route over a two-stop ( three-leg ) route .
Hollow  lacedaemon  .
Site of the Menelaion , the shrine to Helen and Menelaus constructed anciently in the Bronze Age city that stood on the hill of Therapne on the left bank of  the eurotas नदी निहार the भविष्य साईट of  Dorian Sparta .
Across the valley the successive ridges  of माउंट  Taygetus are in evidence .
Sparta ( Doric Greek : ; Attic Greek : ) , or Lacedaemon , was a prominent city-state in ancient  यूनानियों , situated on the बैंको of the eurotas नदी  in Laconia , in south-eastern Peloponnese .
It emerged as a political entity around the 10th century BC , when the invading Dorians  subjugated the लोकल  , non-Dorian population .
Around 650 BC , it rose to become the dominant military land-power in  प्राचीन  Greece .
Given  इसके सैन्य pre-eminence  , Sparta was recognized as the overall leader of the combined Greek forces during the Greco-Persian Wars .
Between 431 and 404 BC , Sparta was  the प्रिंसिपल दुश्मन  of Athens during the Peloponnesian War , from which it emerged victorious , though at great cost .
Sparta 's defeat by Thebes in the Battle of Leuctra in 371  bc ended स्पार्टा  's prominent role in Greece .
However , it maintained its  राजनैतिक स्वतंत्रता  until the Roman conquest of Greece in 146 BC .
It  तब underwent a long काल  of decline , especially in the Middle Ages , when many Spartans moved to live in Mystras .
Modern Sparta is the capital of the Greek regional unit of Laconia and a center for the  प्रसंस्करण of goods  such as citrus and olives .
Sparta was unique in ancient Greece for its social system and constitution , which completely focused  on सैन्य प्रशिक्षण  and excellence .
Its inhabitants were classified as Spartiates ( Spartan  नागरिकों , जो enjoyed पूरा अधिकारों ) , mothakes ( non-spartan  free men raised as Spartans ) , Perioikoi ( freedmen ) , and Helots ( state-owned serfs , enslaved non-Spartan local population ) .
Spartiates underwent  the कठोर  agoge training and education regimen , and Spartan phalanges were widely considered to be among the best in battle .
Spartan women enjoyed considerably more rights  और समता  to men than elsewhere in the classical world .
Sparta was the subject of  fascination in इसके अपना दिन , as खूब as in  the West following the revival of classical learning .
इस प्रेम or admiration of  Sparta is known as Laconism or Laconophilia .
Fantasy football is an  इंटरैक्टिव प्रतियोगिता in जिससे  users compete against each other as general managers of virtual teams .
The   players that an individual is able to manage are professional American football players in the National Football League .
The different  क्रियाएँ लोगों हैं  able to make are drafting , trading , adding or dropping players , and changing rosters .
Due to the growth of the Internet , Fantasy football has vastly increased in popularity , particularly because Fantasy football providers such as ESPN , Yahoo , CBS , and the NFL itself are  समर्थ to रखना track of आंकडे entirely ऑनलाइन , eliminating the  need to check box scores and newspapers regularly to keep track of players .
Most leagues have a single week championship in Week 16 of the NFL season   .
World population estimates from 1800 to  2100 , आधारित on un 2010 projections  ( red , orange , green ) and US Census Bureau historical estimates ( black ) .
वास्तविक अंकित जनसांख्यिकी  figures are in blue .
According to the highest estimate , the  संसार जनसांख्यिकी may वृद्धि to 16  billion by 2100 ; according to the lowest estimate , it may decline to 6 billion .
The world population is the total number of living humans  on धरती  .
As of today , it is estimated to number billion by  the  United States Census Bureau ( USCB ) .
the uscb estimates  that the world population exceeded 7 billion on March 12 , 2012 .
According to a separate estimate by the United Nations Population Fund , it reached  इस पड़ाव on अक्तूबर 31 , 2011  .
The world population has experienced continuous growth since the end of the Great Famine and the Black Death in 1350 , when it  stood at around 370 लाख  .
The highest rates of growth – global population increases  ऊपर 1.8 % प्रति साल – यहूद देखी briefly दौरान  the 1950s , and for a longer period during the 1960s and 1970s .
The growth  रेट peaked at 2.2 % in 1963 , और था अस्वीकृत to 1.1 % by 2011 .
Total annual births were highest in the late 1980s at about 138  लाख , और हैं अभी अपेक्षित  to remain essentially constant at their 2011 level of 134 million , while deaths number 56 million per year , and are expected to increase to 80 million per year by 2040 .
Current projections show a continued increase in population in the near future ( but  a स्थिर मनाही  in the population growth rate ) , with the global population expected to reach between 7.5 and 10.5 billion by 2050 .
Various longer-term estimates predict  further विकास , stagnation  , or even overall decline in the global population by 2150 .
कुछ विश्लेषकों have questioned the स्थिरता  of further world population growth , citing the growing pressures on the environment , global food supplies , and energy resources .
skeletal  muscles homo sapiens
This is a table of muscles  of the इंसान anatomy  .
There are approximately 642 skeletal muscles within the typical human , and almost every muscle constitutes one part of a pair of identical bilateral muscles  , मिला on दोनो पहलू , resulting in लगभग 320 pairs  of muscles , as presented in this article .
Nevertheless , the exact number is difficult to define because different sources group muscles differently , e.g . regarding what is defined as  अलग  parts of a single muscle or as several muscles .
Examples range from 640 to  850  .
The muscles of the human body can be categorized into a number of  समूह जिससे शामिल  muscles relating to the head and neck , muscles of the torso or trunk , muscles of the upper limbs , and muscles of the lower limbs .
The action refers to the action of each muscle  इससे the मानक  anatomical position .
In other positions ,  अन्य क्रियाएँ  may be performed .
A gold bar is a  मात्रा of परिष्कृत  metallic gold of any shape that is made by a bar producer meeting standard conditions of manufacture , labeling , and record keeping .
Larger gold bars that are  उत्पादित  by pouring the molten metal into molds are called ingots .
Smaller bars may be  manufactured by minting or  stamping from appropriately rolled gold sheets .
The standard gold bar held as gold reserves by central banks and traded  among bullion डीलर  is the 400-troy-ounce ( 12.4 kg or 438.9 ounces ) Good Delivery gold bar .
The kilobar , which is to say 1000 grams in mass , is the  बार कि is अधिक  manageable and is used extensively for trading and investment .
The premium on these  bars  when traded is very low over the spot value of the gold making it ideal for small transfers between banks and traders .
Most kilobars are flat ,  हालांकि कुछ निवेशकों , विशेषकर  in Europe , prefer the brick shape .
Elisha Archibald `` Archie '' Manning III ( born May 19 , 1949 ) is a former American football quarterback in the National Football League , playing for the New Orleans Saints from 1971 to 1982 ,  तब  for the Houston Oilers and Minnesota Vikings .
He is the father of current Denver Broncos quarterback Peyton  मैनिंग , वर्तमान  New York Giants starting quarterback Eli Manning , and former Ole Miss receiver Cooper Manning .
वकालत  is a political process by an individual or group which aims to influence public-policy and resource allocation decisions within political , economic , and social systems and institutions .
वकालत can शामिल अनेक क्रियाएँ कि a व्यक्ति or संगठन undertakes सहित मीडिया अभियान , पब्लिक बोलना , commissioning और प्रकाशन शोध or पोल or the दाखिल of an amicus ब्रैड .
Lobbying ( often by lobby groups ) is a form of advocacy where a direct approach is made to legislators on an issue which  plays a significant भूमिका  in modern politics .
Research is beginning to explore how advocacy groups in  the u.S. और कनाडा  are using social media to facilitate civic engagement and collective action .
The flag of Mexico ( Spanish : Bandera de México ) is a vertical tricolor of  ग्रीन , श्वेत , और रेड साथ the नेशनल कोट  of arms charged in the center of the white stripe .
While the meaning of the colors has changed over time , these three colors were adopted by Mexico  following स्वतंत्रता इससे स्पेन दौरान  the country 's War of Independence , and subsequent First Mexican Empire .
The current flag was adopted in 1968 , but the overall design has been used since  1821 , when  the First National Flag was created .
The current law of national symbols , Law on the National  बाहें  , Flag , and Anthem , that governs the use of the national flag has been in place since 1984 .
रेड , श्वेत  , and green are the colors of the national liberation army in Mexico .
The central emblem is the Aztec pictogram for  tenochtitlan ( अभी मैक्सिको नगर  ) , the center of their empire .
It recalls  the लेजेंड  that inspired the Aztecs to settle on what was originally a lake-island .
The form of the coat  of बाहें थी सबसे  recently revised in 1968 .
A ribbon in the national colors is at  the नीचे of the  coat of arms .
Throughout history , the flag has changed four times , as the design of the coat of arms and the length-width ratios of  the ध्वज have महरूम परिवर्धित  .
However , the coat of arms has had the same features throughout : an eagle , holding a  serpent in इसके talon , is perched on शीर्ष of  a prickly pear cactus ; the cactus is situated on a rock that rises above a lake .
The coat of arms is derived from an Aztec legend that their gods told them to build a city where  वे स्पॉट an त्रिभुज on a nopal खाने  a serpent , which is now Mexico City .
The current national flag , the Fourth National Flag , is also used as  the मैक्सिकन नवल ensign by जहाजों  registered in Mexico .
A destination  विपणन संगठन or सम्मेलन  and visitor bureau promotes a town , city , region , or country in order to increase the number of visitors .
it promotes the विकास  and marketing of a destination , focusing on convention sales , tourism marketing , and services .
Such organizations promote economic development of a destination by increasing visits  इससे पर्यटकों और कारोबार travelers , जिससे generates overnight आवास लिये  a destination , visits to restaurants , and shopping revenues .
Convention and visitor bureaus are the most important tourism marketing organizations in  उनके  respective tourist destinations , as they are directly responsible for marketing the destination brand through travel and tourism `` product awareness '' to visitors .
DMOs produce billions of dollars in direct and  अप्रत्यक्ष  revenue and taxes for their destinations ' economies with their marketing and sales expertise .
Destination marketing organizations are often called travel , convention , visitors , or tourism bureaux , welcome  centers , सूचना centers और  more .
Regardless of the name ,  ये संगठन  offer many services to the traveling public .
The elk or wapiti ( Cervus canadensis ) is one of the largest species of deer in the world , and one of the largest  जमीन स्तनधारियों in उत्तर अमेरिका और पूर्वी  Asia .
It was long believed to be a subspecies of the European red deer ( Cervus elaphus ) , but evidence  इससे a 2004 पढ़ाई of the mitochondrial  DNA indicates that the two are distinct species .
This animal should not be confused with the larger moose ( Alces alces ) , to which the name `` elk  '' applies  in Eurasia .
Apart from the  मूस , the तभी  other member of the deer family to rival the elk in size is the south Asian sambar ( Rusa unicolor ) .
नीलगाय  range in forest and forest-edge habitat , feeding on grasses , plants , leaves , and bark .
Although  देशी  to North America and eastern Asia , they have adapted well to countries where they have been introduced , including Argentina , Australia , and New Zealand .
Their great  adaptability may threaten  endemic species and ecosystems into which they have been introduced .
Male elk have large antlers which are  शेड प्रत्येक  year .
Males also engage in ritualized mating behaviors during the rut , including posturing , antler wrestling ( sparring ) , and bugling , a loud series of vocalizations which establishes dominance over other males and attracts  महिलाओं  .
नीलगाय हैं susceptible  to a number of infectious diseases , some of which can be transmitted to livestock .
Efforts to eliminate infectious diseases from elk  populations , largely through टीकाकरण ,  have had mixed success .
Some cultures revere the  नीलगाय as a  spiritual force .
In parts of Asia , antlers and   their velvet are used in traditional medicines .
Elk are hunted as a game species ; the meat is leaner and higher in protein than  बीफ  or chicken .
the जार्ज वॉशिंगटन विश्वविद्यालयों ( gw , gwu , or जार्ज वॉशिंगटन ) is a व्यापक निजी , coeducational शोध विश्वविद्यालयों स्तिथ in वॉशिंगटन  , D.C. .
It awards certificates , Bachelor degrees , Masters degrees , and PhDs across several dozen  disciplines  .
The university was  चार्टर्ड  by an Act of Congress on February 9 , 1821 as The Columbian College in the District of Columbia .
The lion ( Panthera  leo ) is एक of the चार  big cats in the genus Panthera and a member of the family Felidae .
साथ कुछ males exceeding  in weight , it is the second-largest living cat after the tiger .
Wild lions currently exist in sub-Saharan Africa and in Asia ( where an endangered remnant population resides in Gir Forest National Park in India ) while other types of  शेर have disappeared इससे उत्तर अफ़्रीकी और दक्षिणपश्चिम एशिया  in historic times .
Until the late Pleistocene  , परिचय 10,000  years ago , the lion was the most widespread large land mammal after humans .
They were found in most of Africa , across Eurasia from western Europe to India   , and in the Americas from the Yukon to Peru .
The lion is a vulnerable species , having seen a major population decline of 30–50 % over the  पास्ट दो दशकों  in its African range .
Lion populations are untenable outside  designated  reserves and national parks .
Although the cause of the decline is not fully understood , habitat loss and conflicts with humans are  फिलहाल the  greatest causes of concern .
Within Africa  , the वेस्ट अफ़्रीकी शेर  population is particularly endangered .
Lions live for 10–14 years in the wild , while in captivity they can  सजीव  longer than 20 years .
In the wild , males seldom live longer than 10 years , as  चोटों sustained  from continual fighting with rival males greatly reduce their longevity .
They typically inhabit savanna and grassland ,  हालांकि  they may take to bush and forest .
Lions are unusually social  compared  to other cats .
A pride of lions consists of related females and offspring and a small  क्रमांक of वयस्क males  .
Groups of  मादा शेर  typically hunt together , preying mostly on large ungulates .
Lions are apex and keystone predators , although they scavenge  as अवसर allows  .
While lions do not typically hunt  इंसानो , कुछ  have been known to do so .
Sleeping mainly during  the दिन , शेर हैं primarily  nocturnal , although bordering on crepuscular in nature .
Highly distinctive , the male lion is easily recognised by its  माने , और इसके फेस is एक of the सबसे widely  recognised animal symbols in human culture .
Depictions have existed from the Upper Paleolithic period , with carvings and paintings from the Lascaux and Chauvet Caves , through  वस्तुतः सब प्राचीन और मध्यकालीन संस्कृतियों जहाँ  they once occurred .
It has been extensively depicted in sculptures , in paintings , on national  ध्वज ,  and in contemporary films and literature .
Lions have been kept in menageries since the time of the Roman Empire , and have been a key species sought for  प्रदर्शनी in zoos over the संसार  since the late 18th century .
Zoos are cooperating worldwide in  प्रजनन कार्यक्रम लिये the  endangered Asiatic subspecies .
In the history of video games ,  the  seventh generation of consoles is the previous generation , and includes consoles released since late by Nintendo , Microsoft , and Sony .
For home consoles , the seventh generation began on 22 November 2005 with the release of Xbox 360 and continued with the  रिलीज of प्लेस्टेशन 3 on  11 November 2006 , and Wii on 19 November 2006 .
Each new console  introduced a नई प्रकार  of breakthrough in technology .
The Xbox 360 offered games rendered natively at HD resolutions , the PlayStation 3 offered  , in  addition to FHD gaming , HD movie playback via a built-in 3D Blu-ray Disc player , and the Wii focused on integrating controllers with movement sensors as well as joysticks .
Joining Nintendo in the motion market , Sony released the PlayStation Move  in सितंबर 2010  .
The PlayStation Move features motion sensing  गेमिंग , समान to कि of the वी  .
Microsoft also joined Sony and  निन्टेंडो , साथ  its Kinect .
Unlike the other two systems ( PlayStation 3 and Wii ) , Kinect  करता नहीं उपयोग कोई परिरक्षक  of any sort and makes the users the `` controller . ''
Having sold 8 million units in its first 60 days  on  the market , Kinect has claimed the Guinness World Record of being the `` fastest selling consumer electronics device '' .
While the Xbox 360 offers  तार परिरक्षक as a  standalone product , all PlayStation 3 controllers can be used in wired and wireless configurations .
Starting with handheld consoles , the seventh generation began on 21 November 2004 with the North American introduction of the  निन्टेंडो ds as a `` तीसरा  pillar '' , alongside Nintendo 's existing Game Boy Advance and GameCube consoles .
The Nintendo DS ( NDS ) features a touch  स्क्रीन और built-in माइक्रोफोन  , and supports wireless IEEE 802.11 ( Wi-Fi ) standards .
Additionally , the revised version of the NDS , the DSi , features two built in cameras , the ability  to डाउनलोड खेल इससे the  DSi store , and a web browser .
The PlayStation Portable , or PSP , released  बाद the वही साल on 12 दिसम्बर  2004 , followed a different pattern .
It became the first handheld video game console to use an  ऑप्टिकल डिस्क स्वरूप , सार्वभौमिक  Media Disc ( UMD ) , as its primary storage media .
Sony also gave the PSP robust multi-media capability , connectivity with the PlayStation 3 and other  psps , और अंतरजाल  connectivity .
The Nintendo DS likewise has connectivity to the internet through the Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection and Nintendo DS Browser , as well  as बेतार कनेक्टिविटी  to other DS systems and Wii consoles .
Despite high sales numbers for both consoles , PlayStation Portable sales have consistently  पिछड़ापन पीछे those of the निन्टेंडो ds ; nevertheless , the प्लेस्टेशन  Portable has the distinction of being the best-selling non-Nintendo handheld gaming system .
Sgt . Pepper 's  निर्जन दिल क्लबों बैंड ( प्रायः shortened to sgt  . Pepper ) is the eighth studio album by English rock band the Beatles .
Released in June 1967 , the album included songs such as `` With a Little Help from My Friends `` , `` Lucy in the Sky with Diamonds `` , and `` A  दिन in the  Life `` .
Continuing the artistic maturation seen on the band 's album Revolver ( 1966 ) , Sgt . Pepper further departed from the conventional pop rock idiom of the time and incorporated   balladry , psychedelic , music hall , and symphonic influences .
During  the sgt . pepper सत्र ,  the group improved upon the quality of their music 's production while exploring experimental recording techniques .
Producer George Martin 's innovative approach included  the उपयोग of an ऑर्केस्ट्रा  .
Widely acclaimed and imitated , the album cover , designed by English pop artists Peter Blake and Jann Haworth , was inspired by a sketch  by Paul  McCartney that depicted the band posing in front of a collage of some of their favourite celebrities .
Sgt . Pepper was a worldwide critical and commercial success , spending 27 weeks at the top of the UK Album Chart and 15 weeks at number one on  the  US Billboard 200 .
A seminal work in the emerging psychedelic rock style , the album was critically acclaimed upon release   and won four Grammy Awards in 1968 .
With an  अनुमानित 32  million copies sold , it is one of the world 's best selling albums .
Sgt . Pepper is considered by many to be the most influential and famous rock album ever , and has been named  the महानतम एल्बम of सब समय by दोनो  All Time Top 1000 Albums and Rolling Stone .
The temporal lobe is a region of the cerebral cortex that is   located beneath the lateral fissure on both cerebral hemispheres of the mammalian brain .
The temporal lobes are involved in the retention of visual memories , processing sensory input , comprehending language , storing new memories  , जज्बात , और  deriving meaning .
The human lungs are the organs of  श्वसन  in humans .
Humans have two lungs , a right lung and a  बाएँ  lung .
The right lung  consists of तीन निर्मोक जबकि the बाएँ  lung is slightly smaller consisting of only two lobes ( the left lung has a `` cardiac notch '' allowing space for the heart within the chest ) .
Together , the lungs contain  लगभग of एयरवेज़  and 300 to 500 million alveoli , having a total surface area of about ( ) in adults — roughly the same area as one side of a tennis court .
Furthermore , if all of the capillaries that surround  the alveoli यहूद  unwound and laid end to end , they would extend for about .
Each lung  weighs , इसलिए  making the entire organ about .
इंसान  lungs
The trachea divides into two bronchi ( one  लिये प्रत्येक पक्ष )  at the level of T4 .
This junction  is भी ज्ञात  as the carina .
The conducting zone contains the trachea , the  bronchi , the bronchioles , और the टर्मिनल bronchioles  The respiratory zone contains the respiratory bronchioles , the alveolar ducts , and the alveoli .
The conducting zone and the respiratory stuffers ( but not the  alveoli )  are made up of airways .
The conducting zone has no gas exchange with the blood , and is reinforced with   cartilage in order to hold open the airways .
The conducting zone warms the air to and humidifies  the  air .
It also cleanses the air by removing particles via cilia located on the walls of all the  passageways .
The lungs are  घिरी by  the rib cage .
The respiratory zone is the site of gas exchange   with blood .
The sympathetic nervous system via noradrenaline acting on the beta receptors causes  bronchodilation  .
The parasympathetic  बेचैन प्रणाली via acetylcholine  , which acts on the M-3 muscarinic receptors , maintains the resting tone of the bronchiolar smooth muscle .
This action is related , although considered  पृथक इससे bronchoconstriction  .
Many other non-autonomic nervous and biochemical stimuli , including carbon dioxide and  ऑक्सीजन , हैं भी शामिल  in the regulation process .
The pleural cavity is the potential space  between the parietal pleura , अस्तर the भीतरी  wall of the thoracic cage , and the visceral pleura lining the lungs .
The lung parenchyma is strictly used to refer solely to  alveolar ऊतक  with respiratory bronchioles , alveolar ducts and terminal bronchioles .
However , it often includes any form of lung tissue , also including bronchioles , bronchi , blood  बरतन  and lung interstitium .
The margarita is a Mexican cocktail consisting of tequila mixed with  Cointreau  or similar orange -flavoured liqueur and lime or lemon juice , often served with salt on the glass rim .
It is the most  आम tequila-based  cocktail in the United States .
The drink  is परोसा shaken  with ice ( on the rocks ) , blended with ice ( frozen margarita ) , or without ice ( straight up ) .
Two bottles of red Burgundy wine from  gevrey-chambertin  , Côtes de Nuits
Burgundy is a dark red color associated with the Burgundy  वाइन of the  same name , which in turn is named after the Burgundy region of France .
the रंग बरगंडी is समान to अन्य शेड्स of अंधेरा रेड ऐसे as मैरून .
When referring to the color  , `` बरगंडी  '' is usually not capitalized .
The first recorded use of `` burgundy  '' as a रंग नाम  in English was in 1881 .
Grave  of an अनजान  British soldier , killed in 1943 during the Battle of Leros .
Because his identity   is unknown , he is missing in action .
Grave of an unknown American soldier in  oise-aisne  Cemetery .
Killed in  1917
Grave of an unknown paratrooper , killed in the  बैटल of  Arnhem , 1944 .
photographed  in April 1945
Graves of 11 unknown British soldiers killed   during World War II , in Rhodes CWGC war cemetery
Wall crypts containing remains of unknown Italian soldiers killed during World War II , in a   Rhodes cemetery
कुछ of the 72,000  names inscribed on the Thiepval Memorial to the Missing of the Somme
Graves of unknown French  सैनिको मारे  during World War One .
Each concrete cross has a metal plaque  bearing the शब्द  `` Inconnu '' i.e . `` Unknown ''
Ossuary at the Gallipoli battlefield , containing the remains of 3000 unidentified French soldiers   who died in 1915
Graves of unknown Eritrean Ascaris killed in 1941  दौरान the  Battle of Keren
Missing in action ( MIA ) is a casualty Category  आबंटित अंतर्गत  the Status of Missing to armed services personnel who are reported missing during active service .
They may have been killed , wounded , become a prisoner  of युद्ध , or उजाड़  .
If deceased , neither their remains nor  संगीन  can be positively identified .
Becoming MIA has been an occupational risk for service personnel for as  long as वहीँ रै महरूम warfare  .
Chamber of Commerce Building in   Center .
This building is the original  कारावास , निर्मित साथ  with the Historic Courthouse .
Both sit on the Town  वर्गाकार  .
The Rio  थिएटर in बीच
First Baptist Church at 117 Cora Street in Center is  स्तिथ  next to the downtown section .
First Christian Church at 124 Cora Street in Center is  एक of  the oldest congregations in the community .
बीच is  a city in Shelby County , Texas , United States .
The population was  5,193 at the  2010 census .
It is the county  सीट of  Shelby County .
It is named for its  स्थान  near the center of Shelby County , not for its location in Texas as it is located near the Louisiana border .
Intense  red-eye प्रभाव in  blue eyes with dilated pupil
The red-eye effect in photography is the common appearance of red pupils in color photographs   of eyes .
It occurs when using a photographic flash very close to the camera lens ( as with most compact  कैमरे ) , in परिवेश  low light .
The effect appears in the eyes of humans and  पशु कि have tapetum  lucidum .
Theatrical followspot operators , positioned nearly  coincidentally  with a very bright light and somewhat distant from the actors , occasionally witness red-eye in actors on stage .
The effect is not visible to the rest of the audience because it is reliant on the very small angle   between the followspot operator and the light .
The University of California , Santa Barbara ( commonly referred to as UC Santa Barbara or UCSB ) is a public research university and one of the ten general campuses of the  विश्वविद्यालयों of कैलिफ़ोर्निया  system .
The main campus is located on a site in Goleta , California , United States , from Santa  बारबरा  and northwest of Los Angeles .
Tracing its roots back to 1891 as an independent teachers ' college , UCSB joined the University of California system in 1944  और is the  third-oldest general-education campus in the system .
UCSB is one of America  's पब्लिक आइवी विश्वविद्यालयों  , which recognizes top public research universities in the United States .
The university is a comprehensive doctoral university and is  व्यवस्थित into पाँच कॉलेजों और स्कूलों  offering 87 undergraduate degrees and 55 graduate degrees .
The campus is the  6th-largest in the uc प्रणाली  by enrollment with 18,977 undergraduate and 2,950 graduate students .
in 2012 , ucsb थी क्रमित 41st among `` नेशनल विश्वविद्यालयों '' और 10th among पब्लिक विश्वविद्यालयों by u.S. न्यूज & संसार रपट  .
The university was also ranked 35th worldwide by the Times Higher Education World University Rankings and 34th  विश्वव्यापी ( 6th विश्वव्यापी लिये अभियान्त्रिकी ) by the अकादमिक रैंकिंग  of World Universities in 2012. < ref name= '' Shanghairanking.com/FieldENG2012 '' >
UC Santa Barbara is  a `` very high activity '' research  university and spent $ 191.2 million on research expenditures in the 2007 fiscal year , 97th-largest in the United States .
ucsb घरों बारह नेशनल  research centers , including the renowned Kavli Institute for Theoretical Physics .
UCSB faculty includes five Nobel Prize laureates , one Fields Medalist , 29 members of the National Academy of  sciences  , 27 members of the National Academy of Engineering , and 31 members of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences .
UCSB was the No . 3  मेजबान on the arpanet  and was elected to the Association of American Universities in 1995 .
The UC Santa Barbara Gauchos compete in the NCAA Division I  बिग वेस्ट  Conference .
The Gauchos  have जीती  NCAA national championships in men 's soccer and men 's water polo .
Saint Joseph  साथ the  Infant Jesus by Guido Reni
Saint Joseph 's Day , March 19 , the Feast of St. Joseph is in  पश्चिमी  Christianity the principal feast day of Saint Joseph , Spouse of the Blessed Virgin Mary .
He is also  the  step-father of Jesus of Nazareth /Jesus Christ .
It has the rank of a solemnity  in the रोमन  Catholic Church ; Catholics who follow the Missal of 1962 celebrate it as a first class feast .
पिछला to  1962 it was celebrated as a feast of the rank of double of the first class .
It is a feast or commemoration in the provinces of  the anglican नियाज़  , and a feast or festival in the Lutheran Church .
संत जोसेफ 's दिन is the  Patronal Feast day for Poland as well as for Canada , persons named Joseph , Josephine , etc. , for religious institutes , schools and parishes bearing his name , and for carpenters .
It is also Father 's Day in  कुछ कैथोलिक देशों , मुख्यतः  Spain , Portugal , and Italy .
March 19 was  समर्पित to  Saint Joseph in several Western calendars by the tenth century , and this custom was established in Rome by 1479 .
Pope St. Pius V extended its use to the entire Roman Rite by his  अपोस्टोलिक संविधान  Quo Primum ( July 14 , 1570 ) .
Since 1969 , Episcopal Conferences  may , if  they wish , transfer it to a date outside Lent .
Between 1870  और 1955 , a feast थी मनाये in सम्मान of  St. Joseph as Spouse of the Blessed Virgin Mary and Patron of the Universal Church , the latter title having been given to him by Pope Pius IX .
Originally celebrated on the third Sunday after Easter  साथ an अष्टक ,  after Divino Afflatu of St. Pius X ( see Reform of the Roman Breviary by Pope Pius X ) , it was moved to the preceding Wednesday .
The feast was also  retitled the solemnity  of Saint Joseph .
This celebration and its accompanying octave was abolished during the modernisation and simplification of rubrics under Pope  पायस बारहवीं in 1955  .
It is still  कायम  by Catholics who follow the missal of 1962 or earlier missals .
As the traditional holiday of the Apostles Ss . Philip and James , May 1 , had faded  इससे the मेमोरी of सबसे catholics by the mid-twentieth सदी , कि of जोसेफ the कार्यकर्ता  was created in order to coincide with the celebration of international Labour Day ( May Day ) in many countries .
The  feast of ss . फिलिप और जेम्स , जिससे  had been celebrated on that date since the sixth century , was moved from its traditional place .
In the new calendar published in 1969 , the feast , which at one time occupied the highest possible  रैंक in the गिरिजाघर  calendar , was reduced to an optional Memorial , the lowest rank for a saint 's day .
The Eastern  परंपरागत गिरिजाघर मनाता  Saint Joseph on the Sunday after Christmas .
Mariah Carey ( born March 27 , 1970 ) is an  अमरीकी  singer , songwriter , record producer , actress , and philanthropist .
Under the guidance of Columbia Records executive Tommy Mottola , Carey released her self-titled debut studio album Mariah Carey in 1990 ; it went multi-platinum and spawned four consecutive number one singles on the U.S .  बिलबोर्ड  Hot 100 chart .
Following her marriage to Mottola in 1993 and success with hit records Emotions ( 1991 ) , Music Box ( 1993 ) , and  मैरी क्रिसमस ( 1994 ) , कैरी  was established as Columbia 's highest-selling act .
Daydream ( 1995 ) made music history when its second single `` One Sweet Day `` , a duet with Boyz  ii मेन ,  spent a record sixteen weeks on top of the Billboard Hot 100 , and remains the longest-running number-one song in U.S. chart history .
दौरान the रिकॉर्डिंग of the एल्बम  , Carey began to deviate from her R & B and pop beginnings and slowly traversed into hip hop .
This musical change became evident with the  रिलीज of तितली ( 1997 ) , at जिससे  time Carey had separated from Mottola .
Carey left Columbia in 2000 , and signed a record-breaking $ 100 million  रिकॉर्डिंग अनुबंध साथ वर्जिन  Records .
Before the release of her first feature film Glitter ( 2001 ) , she suffered a physical and emotional breakdown and  थी hospitalized  for severe exhaustion .
Following the film 's poor reception , she was bought out  of उसके रिकॉर्डिंग अनुबंध  for $ 50 million , which led to a decline in her career .
She signed a multi-million dollar contract deal with  द्वीप रिकॉर्ड in 2002  , and after an unsuccessful period , returned to the top of music charts with The Emancipation of Mimi ( 2005 ) .
Its second single `` We Belong Together `` became her most  कामयाब सिंगल of the 2000s , और  was later named `` Song of the Decade '' by Billboard .
Carey  एकबार  again ventured into film with a well-received starring role in ( 2009 ) ; she was awarded the `` Breakthrough Performance Award '' at the Palm Springs International Film Festival , and Black Reel and NAACP Image Award nominations .
In a career spanning over  दो दशकों , कैरी रै बेची अधिक than  200 million records worldwide , making her one of the best-selling music artists of all time .
In 1998 , she was honored as the world 's best-selling recording artist of the 1990s at the World  म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार  .
कैरी थी भी नामित the best-selling मादा कलाकार of the मिलेनियम in 2000 .
According to the Recording Industry Association of America , she is the third best-selling female artist in the United States , with 63.5  लाख certified  albums .
With the release  of ``  Touch My Body `` ( 2008 ) , Carey gained her eighteenth number one single in the United States , more than any other solo artist .
In 2012 , Carey  थी क्रमित  second on VH1 's list of the `` 100 Greatest Women in Music '' .
Aside from her commercial accomplishments , Carey has won five Grammy  पुरस्कार , 17 संसार म्यूज़िक  Awards , 11 American Music Awards , and 31 Billboard Music Awards .
Referred to as  the `` songbird परम् '' by the गिनीज संसार रिकॉर्ड  , she is famed for her five-octave vocal range , power , melismatic style and signature use of the whistle register .
A bumblebee is any member of the bee genus Bombus , in the family  apidae .
There are over 250 known species , existing primarily in the  उत्तरी गोलार्ध हालांकि वे  also occur in South America .
They have been  introduced to नई जीलैंड  and the Australian state of Tasmania .
Bumblebees are social insects that are  characterised by ब्लैक और  yellow body hairs , often in bands .
However , some  प्रजाति have  orange or red on their bodies , or may be entirely black .
Another obvious ( but not unique ) characteristic is the soft nature of the hair ( long , branched setae ) , called pile , that covers their entire body , making them appear  and feel  fuzzy .
They are best distinguished from similarly large , fuzzy bees by the form of the female hind leg , which is modified to form a corbicula : a shiny concave surface that is bare , but surrounded by a fringe of hairs used to transport pollen ( in similar bees , the hind  लेग is completely बालदार , और पराग  grains are wedged into the hairs for transport ) .
Like their  रिश्तेदारों  the honey bees , bumblebees feed on nectar and gather pollen to feed their young .
A man openly carrying a  handgun in a बर्गर किंग  in Eagle , Colorado .
In the United States , open carry is shorthand terminology for `` openly carrying a firearm  in  public '' , as distinguished from concealed carry , where firearms can not be seen by the casual observer .
The practice of open carry , where gun owners openly carry firearms while they go about their daily business , has seen an increase in  the u.S. in हाल सालो  .
This has been  चिह्नित by a क्रमांक  of organized events intended to increase the visibility of open carry and public awareness about the practice .
Proponents of open carry point to history and statistics ,  noting  that criminals usually conceal their weapons .
Encouraged by groups like OpenCarry.org , GeorgiaCarry.org and some participants of the Free State Project , open carry has seen a  पुनरुद्धार in हाल सालो , लकिन it is नहीं yet साफ if इस represents  just a short-term trend .
The gun  अधिकारों  community has been mixed in its response .
Alan Gottlieb of the Second Amendment Foundation and the NRA have been cautious in expressing support , while special-interest groups such as the aforementioned OpenCarry.org and GeorgiaCarry.org , and certain national groups such as the Gun Owners of America ( GOA  ) have been more  outspoken in favor of the practice .
Open  carry is strongly  opposed by gun control groups such as the Brady Campaign and the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence .
The Cattenom Nuclear  शक्ति संयंत्र  in France .
France produces around three  quarters  of its electricity by nuclear power .
The Grafenrheinfeld Nuclear  शक्ति संयंत्र  in Germany .
Chancellor Angela Merkel  's गठबन्धन घोषित on may 30 , 2011 , कि  Germany’s 17 nuclear power stations will be shut down by 2022 , in a policy reversal following Japan 's Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster .
Currently , 68 reactors are under construction in  15  countries .
Nuclear  शक्ति स्टेशन  operate in thirty countries .
In 2010 , before the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster , it was reported that an average of about 10 nuclear reactors were expected to become operational per year , although according to the World Nuclear  Association , of the  17 civilian reactors planned to become operational between 2007 and 2009 , only five actually came on stream .
As of June 2011 , Germany  और स्विट्ज़रलैंड  are phasing-out nuclear power .
As of June 2011 , countries such as Australia , Austria , Denmark ,  यूनानियों , आयरलैंड ,  Italy , Latvia , Liechtenstein , Luxembourg , Malaysia , Malta , New Zealand , Norway and Portugal remain opposed to nuclear power .
Color motion picture film  refers दोनो to unexposed रंग फ़ोटोग्राफ़िक  film in a format suitable for use in a motion picture camera , and to finished motion picture film , ready for use in a projector , which bears images in color .
The first color cinematography was by means of additive color systems such as the one patented in England by Edward Raymond Turner  in  1899 and tested in 1902 .
A simplified additive system was developed by George  अल्बर्ट स्मिथ और सफलतापूर्वक commercialized  in 1909 as Kinemacolor .
ये  early systems used black-and-white film to photograph and project two or more component images through different color filters .
स्टिल इससे  footage recorded by Edward Turner in 1902
With the present-day technology , there are two distinct processes : Eastman Color Negative 2 chemistry ( camera negative stocks , duplicating interpositive and internegative stocks ) and Eastman Color Positive 2 chemistry ( positive  prints लिये सीधा प्रक्षेप ) , प्रायः abbreviated as  ECN-2 and ECP-2 .
Fuji 's products are compatible with ECN-2 and  ecp-2  .
Ashanti  shequoiya डगलस ( born अक्तूबर  13 , 1980 ) is an American singer-songwriter , record producer , and actress .
Ashanti is most famous for her eponymous  डेब्यू एल्बम , जिससे  featured the hit song `` Foolish `` , and sold over 503,000 copies in its first week of release throughout the U.S. in April 2002 .
The album set a Soundscan record as the biggest opening week  बिक्री  for a new female artist , outselling debuts by Alicia Keys and Lauryn Hill .
In the same week , she became the first female  यजमान to simultaneously थाम the शीर्ष दो स्थान on the बिलबोर्ड  Hot 100 singles chart with `` Foolish '' , and `` What 's Luv ? ``
( with Fat Joe  ) .
Ashanti broke records again by having three top ten songs , `` Foolish ,  '' `` कया 's luv  ? '' and `` Always on Time `` , on the Billboard Hot 100 charts in the same week , being the first woman to accomplish this feat and being second only to the Beatles .
in 2003 , the self-titled  debut album won Ashanti her first Grammy Award for Best Contemporary R & B album .
As of  अप्रैल  1st 2013 , Ashanti has sold over 27.7 million records worldwide .
Ashanti ended the decade (  2000–09 ) as the तीसरा  top new R & B artist behind Alicia Keys and Beyoncé .
She also ended the decade at  क्रमांक 38 on the  Top Artist of the Decade list .
She is currently on the list of The Twenty Best Selling Music Singles Since 1990 for her single Foolish  लिये selling 7.2 लाख नक़ल to-date  .
Ashanti has an estimated net worth of $ 40 million dollars  [ usd ]  .
Ashanti wrote and sang background on Jennifer Lopez 's `` Ai n't It Funny ( Murder Remix ) `` , which reached number one on Billboard Hot 100 , which was also in the top 10 chart at the same time as `` Foolish '' , ``  सदा on समय '' ( साथ ja नियम ) , और `` कया 's luv '' ( साथ मोटे जो  ) .
Later that year , she was acclaimed as the `` Princess Of Hip-Hop & R & B  '' by उसके लेबल और capped बंद उसके  successful debut by winning eight Billboard awards and two American Music Awards .
Within seven years of Ashanti 's career , she has  scored 16 शीर्ष 40 हिट्स  on the Hot 100 .
Ashanti has  endorsed  numerous products including Gap , Herbal Essences and Mudd Jeans .
Ashanti cites Whitney Houston , Janet Jackson , Prince , Madonna , Tupac Shakur , Mary  J. Blige  , Ella Fitzgerald , Smokey Robinson , Donna Summer , and Blue Magic as her musical influences .
Praised as a gifted songwriter by her peers and  आलोचकों  alike , Ashanti has written/co-written the bulk of all her music .
She is  फिलहाल  working on her own publishing company entitled Written Entertainment .
She released her fourth studio album entitled The Declaration on  जून 3 , 2008 और  is currently in the studio working on her fifth .
She also performed the charity tune `` Just Stand Up `` alongside 15 other female singers for the `` Stand Up to Cancer '' live television  खास जिससे  helped raise $ 100 million dollars for cancer research .
The United States Army Air Forces ( USAAF or AAF ) was the military aviation arm of the United States of America during and immediately after World War II , and the  सीधा पूर्ववर्ती of  the United States Air Force .
The AAF was a component of the United States Army , which in 1942  थी विभाजित functionally  by executive order into three autonomous forces : the Army Ground Forces , the Services of Supply ( which in 1943 became the Army Service Forces ) , and the AAF .
Each of these forces had a commanding  सामान्य जो reported सीधे  to the Chief of Staff of the United States Army .
The AAF administered all parts of military aviation formerly distributed among the Army Air Corps , General Headquarters Air Force , and ground forces corps area commanders , and thus became the first air organization of the U.S. Army to control  its own  installations and support personnel .
In practice , the AAF was virtually  autonomous  inside the Army .
The peak size of the AAF was over 2.4 million men and women in service and nearly 80,000 aircraft in 1944 ,  और 783 घरेलू  bases in December 1943 .
By VE Day it had 1.25  लाख  men stationed overseas and operated from more than 1,600 airfields worldwide .
The Air Corps became the Army Air Forces in June 1941 to provide the air arm a greater autonomy in which  to  expand more efficiently , and to provide a structure for the additional command echelons required by a vastly increased force .
Although other nations already had separate air forces independent of the army or navy ( such as the British  royal एयर फ़ोर्स  and the German Luftwaffe ) , the AAF remained a part of the United States Army until the United States Air Force came into being in September 1947 .
However , in its expansion and conduct of  the  war , the AAF became more than just an arm of the greater organization .
By the end of World War II the AAF had become  वस्तुतः an स्वतंत्र  service .
By regulation and executive order , the AAF was a subordinate agency of the War Department tasked  तभी साथ आयोजन , प्रशिक्षण ,  and equipping combat units , limited in responsibility to the continental United States , as were the Army Ground Forces and the Army Service Forces .
In reality , Headquarters AAF controlled the conduct of all aspects of the air war in every part of the world , determining air policy and issuing orders without transmitting them   through the Chief of Staff .
This `` contrast between theory and fact  is ...  fundamental to an understanding of the AAF . ''
The Freedom of Information Act ( FOIA ) is a federal freedom of information law that allows for the full or  आंशिक प्रकटीकरण of previously unreleased सूचना  and documents controlled by the United States government .
The Act defines agency records subject to disclosure , outlines  अनिवार्य प्रकटीकरण प्रक्रियाओं और  grants nine exemptions to the statute .
It was originally signed into   law by President Lyndon B. Johnson , despite his misgivings , on July 4 , 1966 as and went into effect the following year .
The Federal Government 's Freedom of Information Act should not be confused  साथ the अलग और varying स्वतंत्रता of सूचना  Acts passed by the individual states .
Many  of those राज्य  acts may be similar but not identical to the federal act .
The European Union ( EU ) is an economic and political union of 27 member  राज्य कि हैं स्तिथ primarily  in Europe .
The EU  operates through a प्रणाली  of supranational independent institutions and intergovernmental negotiated decisions by the member states .
Institutions of the EU include the European Commission , the Council of the European Union , the European Council , the Court of Justice of the European Union , the European Central Bank , the Court  of auditors , और the  European Parliament .
The European Parliament  is  elected every five years by EU citizens .
The EU 's de facto capital is  ब्रसेल्स  .
The EU traces its  origins इससे the यूरोपीय कोयले और स्टील  Community ( ECSC ) and the European Economic Community ( EEC ) , formed by the Inner Six countries in 1951 and 1958 respectively .
In the intervening years the community and its successors have grown in size by the accession of new member states  और in शक्ति  by the addition of policy areas to its remit .
The  maastricht सन्धि  established the European Union under its current name in 1993 .
The latest major amendment to the constitutional basis of the EU , the Treaty of  लिस्बन , आए into फ़ोर्स in 2009  .
The EU has developed a single market through a standardised system  of  laws that apply in all member states .
Within the Schengen Area ( which includes 22 EU and 4  non-eu राज्य ) पासपोर्ट  controls have been abolished .
EU policies aim to ensure the free movement of people , goods , services , and capital , enact legislation in  इंसाफ और घर अफेयर्स  , and maintain common policies on trade , agriculture , fisheries and regional development .
A monetary union , the eurozone , was established in 1999 and is  रचित of  17 member states .
Through the Common Foreign and Security Policy the EU has developed a role in  बाह्य संबंध और  defence .
Permanent diplomatic missions have  महरूम  established around the world .
The EU is represented at  the संयुक्त राष्ट्र , the  WTO , the G8 and the G-20 .
With a combined population of over 500 million  निवासियों , or 7.3 % of the संसार जनसांख्यिकी , the eu , in 2012 , उत्पन्न  a nominal gross domestic product ( GDP ) of 16.584 trillion US dollars , representing approximately 20 % of the global GDP when measured in terms of purchasing power parity , and represents the largest nominal GDP and GDP PPP in the world .
The EU was the recipient of  the 2012  Nobel Peace Prize .
The Wales  नेशनल रग्बी लीग टोली  represent Wales in international rugby league football matches .
Currently the team  is सातवाँ  in the RLIF World Rankings .
The team were run under the auspices  of  the Rugby Football League , but an independent body , Wales Rugby League , now runs the team from Cardiff .
a कुल of तीन वेल्श  players have been entered into the Rugby League Hall Of Fame .
Similar to many other Welsh national sporting teams , Wales  स्ट्रिप रै महरूम primarily  red for many years , including now .
however in  their last World Cup campaign in 2000 they did wear a shirt featuring the Welsh flag , adding a touch of green and white .
The team is known as `` The  ड्रेगन '' और so the टीमों  logo on the shirt is a red dragon .
The team date back to 1907 , making them the third oldest  नेशनल पक्ष  after England and New Zealand .
And it was a touring New Zealand side that  वेल्स पहला  played against in 1908 , winning 9-8 at Aberdare .
Since then Wales have  regularly निभाई इंग्लैण्ड , चूंकि  1935 France , as well as welcomed the touring Australia and New Zealand teams , although they rarely toured themselves , not playing a match in the Southern Hemisphere until 1975 .
For twenty-six years Wales competed against their two biggest rivals , England and France , in the European  राष्ट्र कप , जीतना the  trophy four times .
वेल्स have भी competed  in the World Cup on three occasions , the first time being in 1975 .
In 1995 and 2000 they had their most successful tournaments to date , surprisingly  बनाना the semi-finals on दोनो अवसरों  before being beaten by England and Australia respectively .
Wales failed to qualify for the 2008 World Cup , being the second highest ranked  पक्ष नहीं to do so , having खोया to  Scotland on points difference over two matches .
In 2008 Australian John Dixon became the new head coach and appointed Lee Briers as  कप्तान  , having played for Wales since 1998 .
In recent seasons Wales  have  taken massive strides under former player Iestyn Harris who has coached Wales to back to back European Cup successes , which culminated in a Four Nations appearance in 2011 .
Cardiomyopathy (  वस्तुतः `` दिल मांसपेशी  disease '' ) is the measurable deterioration of the function of the myocardium ( the heart muscle ) for any reason , usually leading to heart failure ; common symptoms are dyspnea ( breathlessness ) and peripheral edema ( swelling of the legs ) .
People with cardiomyopathy are often at risk of dangerous forms of irregular heart  ताल और अचानक हृदय  death .
The most common form of cardiomyopathy is  dilated cardiomyopathy  .
Fuck in its literal meaning  refers to the  act of sexual intercourse .
It is an English word that is often  प्रयुक्त as a profanity  , either to denote disdain or as an intensifier .
The origin of the word is obscure  .
It is  प्रायः माना  to be first attested to around 1475 , but it may be considerably older .
In modern usage , fuck and its derivatives ( such as fucker and fucking ) can  be  used in the position of a noun , a verb , an adjective or an adverb .
There are many common phrases which make use of the word , as well as a number  of यौगिकों incorporating  it , such as motherfucker .
Note : this article adopts the  u.S. विभाग of परिवहन 's परिभाषा of a यात्री  vehicle , to mean a car or truck , used for passengers , excluding buses and trains .
The  संयुक्त राज्य  is home to the largest passenger vehicle market of any country in the world .
Overall , there were an  अनुमानित  254.4 million registered passenger vehicles in the United States according to a 2007 DOT study .
This number , along with the average age of vehicles , has increased steadily  चूंकि 1960 , indicating a growing क्रमांक of वाहनों  per capita .
The Chinese car market , however , is poised to soon exceed the United States ; by the end of 2012 , there  यहूद over 240 लाख  cars on the road in China .
The United States is also home to three large vehicle manufacturers : General Motors , Ford Motor Company and Chrysler , which  have historically महरूम referred  to as the `` Big Three . ''
Chrysler however is no longer among the top three ; but is number five , behind  टोयोटा और  Honda .
The motor car has clearly become an integral part of American life ,  साथ  vehicles outnumbering licensed drivers .
Clinical laboratory in a Hospital setting showing  अनेक  automated analysers .
A medical laboratory or clinical laboratory is a laboratory where tests are done on clinical specimens in order to get information about the health of a  रोगी as pertaining to the निदान  , treatment , and prevention of disease .
In poker , players construct  हैंड्स of पाँच ताश according  to predetermined rules , which vary according to which variant of poker is being played .
These hands are compared using a hand ranking system that is standard across  सब विसंगतियाँ of पोकर  , the player with the highest-ranking hand winning that particular deal in most variants of poker .
In some variants , the lowest-ranking hand can win  or टाई .
These hand rankings are also  प्रयुक्त in  some other card games , and in poker dice .
The ranking of a particular hand is increased by  सहित अनेक ताश of the वही  card rank , by all five cards being from the same suit , or by all five cards being of consecutive rank .
The relative ranking  of the विभिन्न हाथ श्रेणी  is based on the probability of being randomly dealt such a hand from a well- shuffled deck .
Bruce Randall Hornsby ( born November 23 , 1954 ) is an American  virtuoso ; a सिंगर , pianist , सिंथेसाइज़र , accordion  , and dulcimer player , and songwriter .
Known for the spontaneity and creativity of his live performances , Hornsby draws frequently from classical , jazz , bluegrass , folk , Motown ,  इन्जील , चट्टान , ब्लूज़ , और jam बैंड musical परंपराओं साथ उसके songwriting  and the seamless improvisations contained within .
Hornsby 's recordings have been recognised on a number of occasions with industry awards , including the Best New Artist Grammy in 1987 with Bruce Hornsby and the Range , the Best Bluegrass Recording Grammy in 1990 ,  and the  Best Pop Instrumental Grammy in 1993 .
Hornsby has also achieved recognition for his solo albums and performances , his touring band Bruce Hornsby and the Noisemakers , his bluegrass  प्रोजेक्ट साथ रिकी skaggs और उसके दिखावे as a session-  and guest-musician .
He also collaborated with Grateful Dead and was a member of the band from September 1990 to March 1992 , playing at over one hundred shows  दौरान कि  period .
गन्ना  plantation in rural Cuba
Agriculture in Cuba has played an important part in the economy for several  सौ सालो  .
कृषि contributes  less than 10 percent to the gross domestic product ( GDP ) , but it employs roughly 20 percent of the working population .
About 30 percent of the country 's land is used for crop  cultivation  .
The inefficient  agricultural उद्योग in क्यूबा  has led to the need to import large amounts of foods .
Cuba  अभी imports  about 80 % of the food it rations to the public .
The rationing program accounts for about a third of the  खाना उर्जा the औसत क्यूबन consumes  .
overall , however , क्यूबा is निर्भर on imports लिये तभी 16 % of इसके खाना  .
सही
Mega Millions ( initially called The Big Game  आचमन लाखो as the successor  of The Big Game ) is an American multi-jurisdictional $ 1 lottery game .
The first ( The Big Game  ) आचमन लाखो  drawing was in 2002 ( see below ) .
The  न्यूनतम आचमन लाखो advertised जैकपॉट  is $ 12,000,000 , paid in 26 equal yearly installments ( unless the cash option is chosen ) ; usually , the jackpot increases when there is no top-prize winner .
However , despite no jackpot winner for the $ 12,000,000 December 18 , 2012 drawing , the jackpot remained at $ 12,000,000 for  the आरेखण to be  held on December 21 .
( See below for information on  कैसा the खेल  's jackpot is funded . )
reflecting आम अभ्यास  among American lotteries , the jackpot is advertised as a nominal value of annual installments .
A cash value option ( the usual choice ) , when chosen by a jackpot winner ( see below ) , pays the approximate present value  of the किश्तों  .
Mega  लाखो फिलहाल  uses a 5/56 ( white balls ) plus 1/46 ( the Mega Ball ) double matrix to select its winning numbers .
Each game  लागत  $ 1 .
In 43 of the 44 Mega  लाखो  jurisdictions ( California is the exception ) , there is an option , called Megaplier ( such games are $ 2 each ) where non-jackpot prizes are multiplied by 2 , 3 , or 4 .
The Megaplier was  बना उपलब्धियाँ  to all Mega Millions jurisdictions in January 2011 ; it began as a Texas -only option .
Mega  लाखो  is drawn at 10:59 p.m. Eastern time Tuesdays and Fridays , including holidays .
Mega Millions is administered by  a  consortium of its 12 original lotteries and the drawings are held at WSB-TV in Atlanta , Georgia .
supervised by  the  Georgia Lottery .
The largest jackpot in Mega Millions , as well as in American lottery history , was $ 656,000,000 annuitized ( with a cash option of $ 474,000,000 )  लिये the कूच 30 , 2012 आरेखण in जिससे  there were three jackpot-winning tickets ; one each in Illinois , Kansas , and Maryland .
All three  टिकटें था महरूम claimed as  of April 18 , with each set of winners choosing the cash option .
is a Japanese  manga श्रेणी निर्मित by लेखक  Tsugumi Ohba and manga artist Takeshi Obata .
The main  अक्षर is लाइट yagami , a ऊँची  school student who discovers a supernatural notebook , the `` Death Note '' , dropped on Earth by a shinigami ( a god of death ) named Ryuk .
The Death Note grants its user the ability to kill anyone whose name and face they know , by writing the name in the  कोपी जबकि picturing  their face .
The series centers around Light 's attempt to create and rule a world `` cleansed of evil  '' as `` परमेश्वर ''  using the notebook , and the efforts of a detective known as L to stop him .
Death Note was first serialized  in 108 अध्याय by shueisha  in the Japanese manga magazine Weekly Shōnen Jump from December 2003 to May 2006 .
The series was also published in tankōbon format in Japan starting in May 2004 and  समाप्ति in अक्तूबर 2006 साथ a कुल of तेरह आयतन  .
The anime  श्रेणी aired  in Japan from October 3 , 2006 , to June 26 , 2007 .
रचित of 37 एपीसोड  , the anime was developed by Madhouse and directed by Tetsuro Araki .
A light novel based on the   series , written by Nisio Isin , was released in Japan .
Additionally , various video games  have महरूम  published by Konami for Nintendo DS .
The series was adapted into live-action films released in Japan on June 17 , 2006 , November 3 , 2006 , and   February 2 , 2008 .
Viz Media licensed the Death Note manga in North America and has  प्रकाशित सब the बारह आयतन  from the series , a 13th volume which serves as a `` reader 's guide '' , as well as the light novels .
The episodes from the anime  पहला appeared  in North America as downloadable by IGN .
Viz later licensed the  दुश्मनी श्रेणी और it  aired on Bionix in Canada and on Cartoon Network in the United States .
The live-action films briefly played in  निश्चित उत्तर  American theaters since 2008 .
However , none of the video games  have यूँ दूर  been published in North America or Europe .
Death Note is one of Weekly Shōnen Jumps  best-selling manga श्रेणी of  all time , with sales over 26.5 million copies .
Halloween or Hallowe'en ( a contraction of `` All Hallows ' Evening `` ) , also known as All Hallows ' Eve , is a yearly celebration observed in a number of countries on October 31 , the eve of the Western Christian feast of All Hallows ( or All Saints )  और the दिन initiating the triduum  of Hallowmas .
According to many scholars , All Hallows ' Eve is a Christianised feast originally influenced by western European harvest festivals , and festivals of the dead   with possible pagan roots , particularly the Celtic Samhain .
अन्य  scholars maintain that it originated independently of Samhain and has solely Christian roots .
Typical festive Halloween activities include trick-or-treating ( also known as `` guising `` ) , attending costume parties , carving pumpkins into jack-o'-lanterns , lighting bonfires , apple bobbing , visiting  haunted आकर्षण , playing pranks , telling डरावने कहानियां  , and watching horror films .
New York City taxicabs during  midtown फटाफट घंटा  in Manhattan
The taxicabs of New York City , with their distinctive yellow  पेंट , हैं a widely पहचाना प्रतीक of  the city .
Taxicabs are operated by private companies and licensed by the New York City Taxi and  लिमोज़ीन आयोग ( tlc )  .
It also oversees over 40,000 other for-hire vehicles , including `` black cars '' ,  commuter वैन और ambulettes  .
`` Medallion taxis , '' the familiar  पीला  cabs , are the only vehicles in the city permitted to pick up passengers in response to a street hail .
Schematic cross section of part of leaf  , जाइलम  shown as red circles at figure 8 .
Xylem is one of the two types of  हस्तांतरण ऊतक  in vascular plants ( phloem is the other ) .
The word xylem is derived from the Greek word ξύλον ( xylon ) , meaning  `` लकडी '' ; the best-known जाइलम  tissue is wood , though it is found throughout the plant .
Its basic function is to  हस्तांतरण जल , लकिन it भी  transports some nutrients through the plant .
U.S. women  suffragists demonstrating  for the right to vote , February 1913 .
Women 's suffrage also known as woman suffrage is the right of women to vote and to  चलाएं  for office .
Limited voting rights were gained by women in  स्वीडन , फिनलैंड और कुछ पश्चिमी  U.S. states in the late 19th century .
International organizations were formed to coordinate efforts , especially the International Council of Women ( 1888 ) and the International  Woman  Suffrage Alliance ( 1904 ) .
In 1893 , New Zealand , then a self-governing British colony , granted adult women the right to vote and the self-governing British colony of South Australia did the  वही in 1895 , लकिन भी permitted महिलाओं to चलाएं लिये  office .
Australia   federated in 1901 , and women acquired the right to vote and stand in federal elections from 1902 , though uneven restrictions on Aboriginal women voting in national elections were not completely removed until 1962 .
The first European country to introduce women 's suffrage was the Grand Duchy of Finland , then part of the Russian Empire , which also produced  the संसार 's पहला मादा सदस्यों  of parliament in the 1907 parliamentary elections .
Norway followed ,  granting पूरा  women 's suffrage in 1913 .
In most  पश्चिमी देशों , महिलाओं 's  suffrage came after World I War I I , with some important late adopters being France in 1944 and Switzerland in 1971 .
Women 's suffrage has generally been recognized after political  अभियान to obtain it  were waged .
In many countries it was  granted पहले सार्वभौमिक  suffrage .
Women 's suffrage is explicitly stated as a right under the  सम्मेलन on the विलोपन  of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women , adopted by the United Nations in 1979 .
The Thirteenth Tale ( 2006 ) by Diane Setterfield is a gothic suspense novel , the author 's  पहला प्रकाशित किताब  .
Jehovah 's Witnesses is a millenarian  restorationist ईसाई denomination साथ nontrinitarian मान्यताओं  distinct from mainstream Christianity .Sources for descriptors : • Millenarian : • Restorationist : • Christian : • Denomination : The organization reports worldwide membership of over 7.78 million adherents involved in evangelism , convention attendance of over 12 million , and annual Memorial attendance of over 19 million .
They are directed by the  Governing  Body of Jehovah 's Witnesses , a group of elders in Brooklyn , New York , that establishes all doctrines .
Jehovah 's Witnesses  '  beliefs are based on their interpretations of the Bible and they prefer to use their own translation , the New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures .
They believe that the  विनाश of the उपस्थित संसार प्रणाली  at Armageddon is imminent , and that the establishment of God 's kingdom on earth is the only solution for all problems faced by mankind .
The group emerged from the Bible Student movement  —founded in the लेट 1870s by चार्ल्स taze रसेल  with the formation of Zion 's Watch Tower Tract Society —with significant organizational and doctrinal changes under the leadership of Joseph Franklin Rutherford .
The name Jehovah 's witnesses , based on Isaiah 43:10–12 , was adopted in 1931 to distinguish themselves from  अन्य बाइबल छात्र  groups and symbolize a break with the legacy of Russell 's traditions .
Jehovah 's  गवाह हैं बेहतरीन ज्ञात लिये  their door-to-door preaching , distributing literature such as The Watchtower and Awake !
, and refusing military  सेवा और रक्त transfusions  .
They   consider use of the name Jehovah vital for proper worship .
They reject Trinitarianism , inherent immortality  of the आत्मा , और hellfire , जिससे  they consider to be unscriptural doctrines .
They do  नहीं observe क्रिसमस  , Easter , birthdays , or other holidays and customs they consider to have pagan origins incompatible with Christianity .
Adherents commonly refer to  उनके देह of मान्यताओं as ``  the truth '' and consider themselves to be `` in the truth '' .
They consider secular society to  be morally  corrupt and under the influence of Satan , and most limit their social interaction with non-Witnesses .
Congregational disciplinary actions include  disfellowshipping , उनके  term for formal expulsion and shunning .
Baptized individuals who formally leave are considered disassociated  और हैं भी  shunned .
Disfellowshipped and disassociated individuals may eventually be reinstated if  deemed repentant  .
The religion 's position regarding conscientious objection to military service and refusal to salute  नेशनल ध्वज रै brought it into विरोध साथ  some governments .
Consequently , Jehovah 's Witnesses have been persecuted and their activities are  banned  or restricted in some countries .
Persistent legal challenges by Jehovah 's Witnesses have influenced legislation related to civil rights in several  देशों  .
Last Tango in  पेरिस  ( ) is a 1972 Franco-Italian romantic Drama film directed by Bernardo Bertolucci which portrays a recent American widower who begins an anonymous sexual relationship with a young , betrothed Parisian woman .
It stars Marlon Brando , Maria Schneider ,  और jean-pierre léaud  .
the फिल्मी 's कच्चा portrayal of यौन हिंसा और emotional turmoil led to अंतरराष्ट्रीय विवाद और खींचा विभिन्न स्तर of सरकारी सेंसरशिप .
The MPAA gave the film an X rating upon  रिलीज in the संयुक्त  States .
After revisions were made to the MPAA ratings code , it was classified as an NC-17 in   1997 .
MGM released a censored R-rated cut in 1981   .
The film has its NC-17 rating for `` some  सुस्पष्ट  sexual content . ''
Windows XP is an operating system produced  by microsoft  for use on personal computers , including home and business desktops , laptops and media centers .
First released to computer manufacturers on August 24 , 2001 , it is the second most popular version of  खिड़कियाँ , आधारित on संस्थापित  user base .
The name `` XP '' is short for ``  अनुभव '' , highlighting  the enhanced user experience .
Windows XP , the successor to  खिड़कियाँ 2000 और खिड़कियाँ me , थी the पहला consumer-oriented  operating system produced by Microsoft to be built on the Windows NT kernel .
Windows XP was released worldwide for retail sale on October 25   , 2001 , and over 400 million copies were in use in January 2006 .
It was succeeded by Windows Vista  in जनवरी 2007  .
Direct  oem और  retail sales of Windows XP ceased on June 30 , 2008 .
Microsoft  जारी to  sell Windows XP through their System Builders ( smaller OEMs who sell assembled computers ) program until January 31 , 2009 .
On April 10 , 2012 , Microsoft reaffirmed that extended support for Windows XP and Office 2003 would end on April 8 , 2014 and  सुझाया कि  administrators begin preparing to migrate to a newer OS .
The NT -based versions of Windows , which are programmed in C , C++ , and assembly , are known for their improved stability and efficiency over the  9x संस्करण of microsoft  Windows .
Windows XP presented a significantly redesigned graphical user  इंटरफ़ेस , a बदलें microsoft प्रचारित  as more user-friendly than previous versions of Windows .
In an attempt to further  ameliorate the `` dll नरक `` कि plagued the पास्ट संस्करण of खिड़कियाँ , improved  side-by-side assembly technology in Windows XP allows side-by-side installation , registration and servicing of multiple versions of globally shared software components in full isolation .
It is also the first version  of  Windows to use product activation to combat illegal copying .
During Windows XP 's development , the project was codenamed `` Whistler '' , after Whistler , British Columbia , as many Microsoft employees  skied at the whistler-blackcomb  ski resort .
According to web analytics data generated by Net Applications , Windows XP was the most widely used operating system until August 2012  , when  Windows 7 overtook it .
, Windows XP market share is at 38.99 % ,  having decreased लगभग प्रत्येक  month since at least November 2007 , the first month for which statistics are publicly available from Net Applications .
`` Por una Cabeza '' is an Argentine tango with music  और गीत लिखा  in 1935 by Carlos Gardel and Alfredo Le Pera respectively .
The name is a Spanish horse-racing  phrase अर्थ `` by a सिर  '' , which refers to a horse winning a race by the length of one head .
The lyrics  बोलो of a बाध्यता  horse-track gambler who compares his addiction for horses with his attraction to women .
Alfredo Le Pera was a Brazilian from São Paulo , a much Italian-influenced area in Brazil , and also the birthplace of  zequinha de abreu , composer of tico-tico  no Fubá .
Le Pera and Gardel died in an airplane crash in Medellín , ( Colombia ) , on June 24  , 1935  .
पोर ऊना  Cabeza
The tango has since been performed by  numerous  tango orchestras .
Tango scenes with `` Por una Cabeza '' appear in Delicatessen ( 1991 ) , Scent of a Woman ( 1992 ) , Schindler 's List ( 1993 ) , True Lies ( 1994 ) , Titanic ( 1996 ) , Bad Santa ( Uncut  संस्करण , 2003 ) , सब the किंग 's मेन ( 2006 ) , ग्रह  51 ( 2009 ) , episode 37 of Nip/Tuck ( 2003–2010 ) , episode 9 of South Korean drama series Sweet Spy ( 2005–08 ) , the beginning and ending credits of the South Korean drama broadcast I 'm Sorry , I Love You ( 2004 ) , and the episode `` Down the Rabbit Hole `` ( 2007 ) .
In the movie Frida ( Salma Hayek , 2002 ) , Gardel is heard  गायन  it on a radio .
It is also quoted in David Del  tredici 's `` शुभ  News !
Nilda is Back '' ( from the song cycle Miz  inez sez  ) .
In Scent of a Woman ( 1992 ) , the tango is performed by the `` The Tango Project '' , who actually appear in the  नाचना झाँकी अभिनीत al पचिनो (  the recording used is available on one of their CD albums ) .
John  विलियम्स arranged  a version of the piece that appears on the album `` Cinema Serenade '' with the violin solo performed by Itzhak Perlman .
Perlman  और विलियम्स  ( conducting ) have also performed the piece together in live concerts .
In 2012 a dance version was released by the group `` Da Carrera '' featuring  the  original vocal recording by Carlos Gardel .
The baroreflex or  baroreceptor reflex is  one of the body 's homeostatic mechanisms for maintaining blood pressure .
It provides a negative feedback loop in which an elevated blood pressure reflexively causes heart rate to decrease therefore causing  रक्त दबाव to घटी ; likewise , decreased रक्त दबाव  activates the baroreflex , causing heart rate to increase thus causing an increase in blood pressure .
The system relies on specialized neurons , known  as baroreceptors  , in the aortic arch , carotid sinuses , and elsewhere to monitor changes in blood pressure and relay them to the brainstem .
Subsequent changes in blood pressure are mediated by  the  autonomic nervous system .
Atrial natriuretic peptide forms a parallel negative feedback loop  in an endocrinological  contrast to the renin-angiotensin system .
The Loma Prieta earthquake , also known as the Quake of '89 and the World  श्रेणी भूकंप , थी  a major earthquake that struck the San Francisco Bay Area of California on October 17 , 1989 , at 5:04 pm local time .
Caused by a slip along the San Andreas Fault ,  the भूकंप lasted 10–15 सेकेंड  and measured 6.9 on both the moment magnitude scale ( surface-wave magnitude 7.1 ) and on the open-ended Richter Scale .
The quake killed 63 people throughout northern  कैलिफ़ोर्निया , घायल 3,757 और बाएँ  some 3,000–12,000 people homeless .
The earthquake occurred during the warm-up  अभ्यास लिये the तीसरा खेल of the 1989  World Series , featuring both of the Bay Area 's Major League Baseball teams , the Oakland Athletics and the San Francisco Giants .
Because of game-related sports coverage , this was the first major earthquake in the United States to have its initial jolt  ब्रॉडकास्ट सजीव on टेलीविज़न  .
Pawn in the standard Staunton  पैटर्न
The pawn ( ♙♟ ) is the most numerous and in most circumstances the weakest piece in  the खेल of शतरंज , historically  representing infantry or , more particularly , armed peasants or pikemen .
In chess , each player begins the game  साथ आठ प्यादे  , one on each square of the rank immediately in front of the other pieces .
( In algebraic notation , the white pawns start on  a2 , b2 , c2 , ... , h2 , जबकि  black pawns start on a7 , b7 , c7 , ... , h7 . )
Individual pawns are referred  to  by the file on which they stand .
For example , one speaks of `` White  's  f-pawn '' or `` Black 's b-pawn '' , or less commonly ( using descriptive notation ) , `` White 's king 's bishop pawn '' or `` Black 's queen 's knight pawn '' .
It is also common to refer to a rook pawn , meaning any pawn on the a- or h-file , a knight pawn ( on the b- or g-file  ) , a बिशप साहूकार ( on the c- or f-file ) ,  a queen pawn ( on the d-file ) , a king pawn ( on the e-file ) , and a central pawn ( on either the d- or e-file ) .
The military forces of the world have differing approaches to the enlistment of homosexual ( gay and lesbian )  और द्विलिंगी individuals  .
The armed forces  of सबसे विकसित  countries have now removed policies excluding non-heterosexual individuals ( with strict policies on sexual harassment ) .
Nations that permit  gay  people to serve openly in the military include the 4 of the 5 members of the UN Security Council ( United States , United Kingdom , France , and Russia ) , the Republic of China ( Taiwan ) , Australia , Israel , South Africa , Argentina , and all NATO members excluding Turkey .
Hydrogen production is the family of  औद्योगिक  methods for generating hydrogen .
Currently the dominant  प्रौद्योगिकी  for direct production is steam reforming from hydrocarbons .
Many other  विधि हैं ज्ञात सहित  electrolysis and thermolysis .
In 2006 , the United States was estimated to have a  उत्पादन क्षमता  of 11 million tonnes of hydrogen .
5 million tonnes of hydrogen were consumed on-site in oil refining , and in the production of ammonia ( Haber process   ) and methanol ( reduction of carbon monoxide ) .
0.4 million tonnes   were an incidental by-product of the chlor-alkali process .
हाइड्रोजन  production is an estimated $ 100 billion industry .
A basis point ( often denoted as bp , colloquially referred to in the plural as `` bips '' , also known as a `` beep '' ) is a unit equal to one hundredth of a percentage point ,  or एक भाग प्रति टेन हजार  , 1/10000 .
The same unit is also (  rarely ) पुकारा a permyriad , वस्तुतः  meaning 'for ( every ) myriad ( ten thousand ) ' , and in that context is written with which looks like a percent sign ( % ) with two extra zeroes at the end ( like a stylized form of the four zeros in the denominator , although it originates as a natural extension of the percent ( % ) and permille ( ‰ ) signs ) .
A  आधार  point is defined as:
1 basis point = 1  permyriad = एक  one-hundredth percent
1 bp = 1 = 0.01 % =  0.1‰  = 10−4 = = 0.0001
1 %  = 100 bp = 100
Basis  अंक हैं प्रयुक्त as a सुविधाजनक  unit of measurement in contexts where percentage differences of less than 1 % are discussed .
The most common example is interest rates , where differences in interest rates of less than 1 % per year are usually  meaningful to talk  about .
For example , a  अंतर of 0.10 प्रतिशत अंक is  equivalent to a change of 10 basis points ( e.g . a 4.67 % rate increases by 10 basis points to 4.77 % ) .
Like percentage points , basis points avoid the ambiguity between relative and absolute discussions about interest rates by dealing only  साथ  the absolute change in numeric value of a rate .
For example , if a report says there  रै महरूम a `` 1 % बढ़ाएँ '' इससे a 10 % ब्याज  rate , this could refer to an increase either from 10 % to 10.1 % ( relative , 1 % of 10 % ) , or from 10 % to 11 % ( absolute , 1 % plus 10 % ) .
If , however , the report says there has been a `` 10 basis point increase '' from a 10 % interest rate , then we know that the interest rate of 10 % has increased by  0.10 % ( the निरपेक्ष  change ) to a 10.1 % rate .
it is आम  practice in the financial industry to use basis points to denote a rate change in a financial instrument , or the difference ( spread ) between two interest rates , including the yields of fixed-income securities .
Since certain loans and bonds may commonly be quoted in relation to some index or underlying  सुरक्षा , वे होगा प्रायः be कोटेड  as a spread over ( or under ) the index .
For example , a loan that bears interest of 0.50 % per annum above the London Interbank Offered Rate ( LIBOR ) is said to be 50 basis  अंक over libor , जिससे is commonly expressed as `` l+50bps '' or बस `` l+50 ''  .
The term ``  आधार पाइंट  '' has its origins in trading the `` basis '' or the spread between two interest rates .
Since the basis is usually small , these are quoted multiplied up by 10000 , and hence a `` full point  '' गति in the `` आधार '' is  a basis point .
कंट्रास्ट साथ  pips in FX forward markets .
The relationship between percentage  परिवर्तन और आधार अंक  can be summarized as follows : 1 percentage point change = 100 basis points , and 0.01 percentage points = 1 basis point .
So , a bond whose yield increases from 5 % to 5.5 % is said to increase by 50 basis points ; or interest rates that have risen 1 percentage point are  कहा to have increased by 100 आधार  points .
The British Royal Family is the  समूह of  close relatives of the monarch of the United Kingdom .
The term is also commonly applied to the same group of people who are the relations of  the monarch in उसके or उसके भूमिका as sovereign of कोई of the अन्य  Commonwealth realms , thus sometimes at variance with official national terms for the family .
Members of the Royal Family belong to , either by birth or marriage , the House of  विंडसर , चूंकि 1917 , जब जार्ज  V changed the name of the royal house from Saxe-Coburg and Gotha .
This decision was primarily taken because Britain and her Empire were at war with Germany and given the British Royal Family 's strong German ancestry ; it was felt that its public image could be improved by  चुनना a अधिक अंग्रेजों  house name .
the नई नाम चुनी , विंडसर , था बिल्कुल  no connection other than as the name of the castle which was and continues to be a royal residence .
Although in the United Kingdom there is no strict legal or formal definition of who is or is not a member of the Royal Family , and different lists will include different people , those carrying the style Her or His Majesty ( HM ) , or Her or His Royal Highness ( HRH ) are always considered  सदस्यों , जिससे प्रायः परिणाम in the अनुप्रयोग of the पद to the monarch , the consort  of the monarch , the widowed consorts of previous monarchs , the children of the monarch and previous monarchs , the male-line grandchildren of the monarch and previous monarchs , and the spouses and the widows of a monarch 's and previous monarch 's sons and male-line grandsons .
On 30 November 1917 , King George V issued Letters Patent defining who are members of the Royal Family ; the text of the notice  इससे the लंदन  Gazette is as follows:
In 1996 , Her Majesty The Queen modified these Letters Patent , as was evidenced  by इस सूचना  from the London Gazette:
In 2013 Letters Patent were issued to extend a title and a style borne by members of the Royal Family to additional persons to be born , evidenced  by इस सूचना इससे the लंदन gazette:
Members and  रिश्तेदारों of the अंग्रेजों royal परिवार historically  represented the monarch in various places throughout the British Empire , sometimes for extended periods as viceroys , or for specific ceremonies or events .
Today , they often perform ceremonial and  सोशल कर्तव्य throughout  the United Kingdom and abroad on behalf of the United Kingdom .
aside  from the monarch , their only constitutional role in the affairs of government is to serve , if eligible and when appointed by letters patent , as a Counsellor of State , two or more of whom exercise the authority of the Crown ( within stipulated limits ) in the indisposal or absence from the British realm of the monarch .
In the other realms of the Commonwealth   royalty do not serve as Counsellors of State .
However in each such realm the monarch 's family members may act on behalf of , are funded by , and represent the sovereign of that particular  राज्य , और नहीं the  United Kingdom .
The Queen , her consort , her children and grandchildren ,  as खूब as सब पूर्व अधिपति ' children  and grandchildren hold places in the first sections of the official orders of precedence in England and Wales , Scotland , and Northern Ireland .
Wives of the  कहा आनंद उनके पतियों  ' precedence , and husbands of princesses are unofficially but habitually placed with their wives as well .
However , the Queen changed the private order of precedence  in the royal परिवार in पक्ष of राजकुमारियों  Anne and Alexandra , who henceforth take private precedence over the Duchess of Cornwall , who is otherwise the realm 's highest ranking woman after the Queen herself .
She did not  alter  the relative precedence of other born-princesses , such as the daughters of her younger sons .
Haiti ( ; Haitian Creole Ayiti ) ,  officially the गणतंत्र of हैती  ( ; ) , is a Caribbean country .
It occupies the western , smaller portion of  the द्वीप of हिस्पानिओला  , in the Greater Antillean archipelago , which it shares with the Dominican Republic .
Ayiti ( land of high mountains ) was  the स्वदेशी  Taíno or Amerindian name for the island .
The country 's highest point is Pic la  selle , at  .
The total area  of हैती is  and its capital is Port-au-Prince .
Haitian Creole  और फ्रेंच  are the official languages .
Haiti 's regional , historical  ,  and ethno-linguistic position is unique for several reasons .
It was the first independent nation of Latin America and the  Caribbean , the  first black -led republic in the world , and the second republic in the Americas when it gained independence in 1804 as part of a successful slave revolution lasting nearly a decade .
In 2012 , Haiti announced its  इरादे to तलाश  associate membership status in the African Union .
Haiti is the most populous of  the predominantly  Francophone independent nations in the Americas .
It  is एक of तभी दो  independent nations in the Americas ( along with Canada ) to designate French as an official language ; the other French-speaking areas are all overseas départements , or collectivités , of France .
Haiti is the most  populous पूरा member-state  of the Caribbean Community ( CARICOM ) .
It is the poorest country in the Americas as measured by the Human  विकास अनुक्रमणिका  .
Political violence has occurred regularly throughout its history , leading   to government instability .
Most recently , in February 2004 , a coup d'état originating in the north of the country  मजबूर  the resignation and exile of President Jean-Bertrand Aristide .
A provisional government took control with security  provided by the संयुक्त  Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti ( MINUSTAH ) .
Michel Martelly , the current  अध्यक्ष , थी निर्वाचित in the  Haitian general election , 2011 .
The island has had a history of destructive  भूकंप  .
A 7.0  परिमाण भूकंप struck हैती  on 12 January 2010 and devastated Port-au-Prince .
the उच्चतम विश्वसनीय  death count was estimated at 220,000 .
Haitian government  estimates यहूद उच्चतर  .
The Presidential palace , Parliament and many other important structures were destroyed , along with  अनगिनत घरों और व्यवसायों  , leaving hundreds of thousands of people homeless .
The country has yet to recover from the 2010 earthquake ( and subsequent incidents ) due to both the severity of the  क्षति  Haiti endured in 2010 , as well as a government that was ineffective well before the earthquake .
United States aid organizations have  दान  $ 2 billion .
Combined with other international donations , these funds are intended to  योगदान to the  rebuilding of the country .
The Bloody Beetroots is the pseudonym of Sir Bob Cornelius  rifo , the इतालवी इलेक्ट्रो  house and dance-punk music producer , DJ and photographer .
The Bloody Beetroots is well-known for  the ब्लैक venom मुखौटा  he wears during performances .
In fact , the only identifying public feature of Rifo is the year ``  1977 '' tattooed  across his chest , which is both the year that the producer and punk-rock was born .
`` The Bloody Beetroots DJ set '' contains  सर bob  Cornelius Rifo and Tommy Tea .
A Motorola Advisor  alphanumeric  pager used in Brazil in the 1990s , operated by Teletrim
A pager is a wireless  दूरसंचार  device that receives and displays numeric or text messages , or receives and announces voice messages .
One-way pagers can only receive messages , while response pagers and two-way pagers can also acknowledge , reply to ,  और originate संदेश  using an internal transmitter .
Pagers operate as part of a paging system which includes one or  अधिक फिक्स्ड ट्रांसमीटरों ( or in the मामला  of response pagers and two-way pagers , one or more base stations ) , as well as a number of pagers carried by mobile users .
These systems can range from a restaurant system with a single low-power transmitter , to a nationwide  प्रणाली साथ हज़ारों of high-power  base stations .
One of the first practical paging  सेवाएं  was launched in 1950 for physicians in the New York City area .
Physicians paid US $ 12 per month for the service and carried a ( 6 oz )  पेजर कि होता प्राप्त  phone messages within ( 25 mi ) of a single transmitter tower .
The system was   manufactured by the Reevesound Company and operated by Telanswerphone .
In 1960 , John Francis Mitchell combined elements   of Motorola 's Walkie Talkie and automobile radio technologies to create the first transistorized pager , and from this point , paging technology continued to advance , and pager adoption continued to expand , until the early 1990s .
However  , by the mid-1990s , as सेल्यूलर technologies  became cheaper and more widely available , advanced services began to displace paging as a commercial product .
Today , pagers exist largely as niche  उत्पाद , ढूंढना  preferential use in applications such as hospitals , public safety , and retail locations where their simplicity , high reliability , and low cost represent significant advantages .
Reevesville is a town in Dorchester County , South  कैरोलिना , संयुक्त  States .
The population was 196 at the   2010 census .
As defined by the U.S. Office of Management and Budget , and used by the U.S. Census Bureau for  सांख्यिकीय उद्देश्य तभी , reevesville is शामिल भीतर the charleston-north charleston-summerville  metropolitan area .
Frida Kahlo de Rivera ( born Magdalena Carmen Frieda Kahlo y  calderón  ; July 6 , 1907 – July 13 , 1954 ) was a Mexican painter , born in Coyoacán , who is best known for her self-portraits .
Kahlo 's life  began और ended in मैक्सिको  City , in her home known as the Blue House .
She gave her birth date as July 7 , 1910 , but her  जनम प्रमाणपत्र  shows July 6 , 1907 .
Kahlo had allegedly wanted the year of her birth to coincide with the year of the beginning of the Mexican revolution so that her life would begin with  the जनम of  modern Mexico .
Her work has been celebrated in Mexico as emblematic of national and indigenous tradition , and by feminists for its  uncompromising चित्रण  of the female experience and form .
Mexican culture and Amerindian cultural tradition are important in  उसके कार्य  , which has been sometimes characterized as Naïve art or folk art .
Her work has also been described as `` surrealist '' , and  in 1938 आंद्रे ब्रेटन  , principal initiator of the surrealist movement , described Kahlo 's art as a `` ribbon around a bomb '' .
Kahlo had  a volatile विवाह  with the famous Mexican artist Diego Rivera .
She suffered  lifelong  health problems .
Many of her health problems were the result of a traffic  दुर्घटना वो  survived as a teenager .
Recovering from her injuries isolated her from other people and this  अलगाव बहकावे उसके works , अनेक of जिससे हैं  self-portraits of one sort or another .
Kahlo suggested , `` I paint myself because I am so often alone and because I am  the विषय i जान  best . ''
She also  stated , ``  I was born a bitch .
I was born a painter  .  ''
300px
Theresienwiese on the  दिन पहले  Oktoberfest 2006
Oktoberfest is a 16-day festival celebrating beer held annually in  म्यूनिख , बायर्न  , Germany , running from late September to the first weekend in October .
It is one of the most famous events in Germany and  is the संसार 's largest मेला , साथ  more than 6 million people from around the world attending the event every year .
To the locals , it is not called Oktoberfest , but `` die Wiesn '' , after the colloquial name of the fairgrounds themselves   .
The Oktoberfest is an  महत्वपूर्ण भाग  of Bavarian culture , having been held since 1810 .
Other cities across the world also  थाम oktoberfest जश्न  , modeled after the original Munich event .
The Munich   Oktoberfest originally took place during the sixteen days up to , and including , the first Sunday in October .
In 1994 , the schedule was modified in response to German reunification so that if the first Sunday in October falls on the 1st   or 2nd , then the festival would go on until October 3 ( German Unity Day ) .
Thus , the festival is now 17 days when  the  first Sunday is October 2 and 18 days when it is October 1 .
In 2010 , the  पर्व lasted जबतक the  first Monday in October , to mark the anniversary of the event .
The festival is held in an area named the Theresienwiese ( field , or  मर्ग , of therese  ) , often called Wiesn for short , located near Munich 's center .
Large quantities of Oktoberfest Beer are consumed , with  लगभग 7  million liters served during the 16 day festival in 2007 .
Visitors may also enjoy a wide variety of traditional food such as Hendl (  मुर्गा ) , schweinebraten ( रोस्ट पोर्क ) , schweinshaxe ( ग्रील्ड हैम ओल ) , steckerlfisch ( ग्रील्ड मछली on a  stick ) , Würstl ( sausages ) along with Brezeln ( Pretzel ) , Knödel ( potato or bread dumplings ) , Käsespätzle ( cheese noodles ) , Reiberdatschi ( potato pancakes ) , Sauerkraut or Rotkohl/Blaukraut ( red cabbage ) along with such Bavarian delicacies as Obatzda ( a spiced cheese-butter spread ) and Weisswurst ( a white sausage ) .
A  platter साथ चीज  and garnishes
Wheels of  gouda
Cheese is a generic  पद  for a diverse group of milk-based food products .
Cheese is produced in wide-ranging flavors  , बनावट  , and forms .
Cheese consists of proteins  और  fat from milk , usually the milk of cows , buffalo , goats , or sheep .
It is produced by coagulation of the  मिल्क प्रोटीन  casein .
Typically , the milk is acidified and addition of the  एंजाइम rennet कल्याणकारी  coagulation .
The solids are  अलग और  pressed into final form .
Some  cheeses have  molds on the rind or throughout .
Most cheeses melt at  कुकिंग तापमान  .
Hundreds of types of cheese  इससे विभिन्न देशों  are produced .
Their styles , textures and flavors depend on the origin of the milk ( including the animal 's diet ) , whether they have been pasteurized , the   butterfat content , the bacteria and mold , the processing , and aging .
Herbs , spices , or wood smoke may be used  as flavoring  agents .
The  पीला to रेड रंग  of many cheeses , such as Red Leicester , is normally formed from adding annatto .
For a few cheeses , the milk is curdled by  adding acids ऐसे as  vinegar or lemon juice .
Most cheeses are acidified to a lesser degree  by जीवाणु , जिससे फेरे मिल्क sugars into  lactic acid , then the addition of rennet completes the curdling .
शाकाहारी विकल्प to rennet हैं उपलब्धियाँ ; सबसे  are produced by fermentation of the fungus Mucor miehei , but others have been extracted from various species of the Cynara thistle family .
चीज is valued  for its portability , long life , and high content of fat , protein , calcium , and phosphorus .
Cheese is more compact and has a longer shelf life than milk , although how long a cheese will  रखना may निर्भर on the प्रकार of  cheese ; labels on packets of cheese often claim that a cheese should be consumed within three to five days of opening .
Generally speaking , hard cheeses last longer  than नरम  cheeses , such as Brie or goat 's milk cheese .
cheesemakers निकट a दुग्ध  region may benefit from fresher , lower-priced milk , and lower shipping costs .
The long storage life  of कुछ  cheese , especially if it is encased in a protective rind , allows selling when markets are favorable .
Additional ingredients may be  added to कुछ  cheeses , such as black peppers , garlic , chives or cranberries .
A specialist seller of cheese is  sometimes ज्ञात  as a cheesemonger .
To become an expert in this field ,  जैसे वाइन or  cooking , requires some formal education and years of tasting and hands-on experience .
This position is typically responsible for all aspects of the cheese inventory ; selecting the cheese menu , purchasing , receiving ,  भंडार , और ripening .
Legal citation signals are a set of brief abbreviated phrases or words used to clarify the authority or  significance of a विधिक citation as it relates  to a proposition .
Signals help a  रीडर जल्दी discern  meaning or usefulness of a particular reference when the reference itself does not provide adequate information .
Most  citation सिग्नल हैं  placed in front of the citation to which they apply .
For example , in the paragraph When  लिखने a विधिक तर्क  , it is important to refer to primary sources .
to assist  readers in locating these sources , it is desirable to use a standardized citation format .
See generally  हार्वर्ड  Law Review Association , The Bluebook : A Uniform System of Citation ( 18th ed . 2005 ) .
Note , however , that some courts may require any legal papers  कि हैं सुपुर्द  to them to conform to a different citation format .
the signal is the phrase `` see generally , '' which indicates that the  citation `` the bluebook : a वर्दी  System of Citation ( 18th ed . 2005 ) '' provides general background information on the topic .
Neil Alden Armstrong ( August 5 , 1930 – August 25 , 2012 ) was an American astronaut and the first  व्यक्ति  to walk on the Moon .
He was also an aerospace engineer ,  नवल एविएटर , परीक्षण  pilot , and university professor .
Before becoming an astronaut , Armstrong was an officer in the U.S. Navy  और परोसा in the कोरियाई युद्ध  .
After the war , he earned his bachelor 's degree at Purdue University and served as a test pilot at the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics High-Speed Flight Station ,  अभी ज्ञात as the ड्राइडेन उड़ान  Research Center , where he logged over 900 flights .
He later  समाप्त ग्रैजुएट  studies at the University of Southern California .
A participant in the U.S. Air Force 's Man in Space Soonest and X-20 Dyna-Soar human spaceflight  कार्यक्रम  , Armstrong joined the NASA Astronaut Corps in 1962 .
He made his first space flight , as command pilot of Gemini 8 , in 1966 ,  बनने नासा 's पहला  civilian astronaut to fly in space .
On this mission , he performed the first docking of two  spacecraft , साथ  pilot David Scott .
Armstrong 's second and last spaceflight was as mission commander  of the  Apollo 11 moon landing , in July 1969 .
On this  मिशन , आर्मस्ट्रांग  and Buzz Aldrin descended to the lunar surface and spent two and a half hours exploring , while Michael Collins remained in lunar orbit in the Command Module .
Along with Collins and  एल्ड्रिन , आर्मस्ट्रांग थी awarded the अध्यक्षीय पदक  of Freedom by President Richard Nixon ; in 1978 , President Jimmy Carter presented Armstrong the Congressional Space Medal of Honor in 1978 ; he and his former crewmates received the Congressional Gold Medal in 2009 .
Armstrong died in Cincinnati , Ohio , on August 25 , 2012 , at the age of 82  , बाद जटिलताओं इससे  coronary artery bypass surgery .
Secretariat ( March 30 , 1970  – अक्तूबर 4 , 1989 ) थी an अमरीकी thoroughbred  racehorse that in 1973 became the first U.S . Triple Crown champion in 25 years .
He set race records in all three events in the Series — the Kentucky Derby ( 1:59.4 ) , the Preakness  stakes ( 1:53 ) , और the belmont stakes (  2:24 ) — records that still stand today .
He is considered to be one of  the महानतम  Thoroughbreds of all time .
In  1999 , ईएसपीएन क्रमित  Secretariat the 35th best athlete of the 20th century , the highest ranking racehorse on the list URL_http .
He ranked second behind Man o ' War in The Blood-Horse 's List of the Top  100 u.S. racehorses of the 20th सदी  .
सचिवालय  was sired by Bold Ruler out of Somethingroyal , by Princequillo .
He was  foaled  at The Meadow in Caroline County , Virginia .
Like his  प्रसिद्ध  predecessor Man o ' War , Secretariat was a large chestnut colt and was given the same nickname , `` Big Red . ''
Secretariat 's grandsire ,  nasrullah , is भी  the great-great-grandsire of 1977 Triple Crown winner Seattle Slew .
Owned by Penny Chenery , he was  प्रशिक्षित by lucien laurin और मुख्यतः ridden by कनाडाई jockey  Ron Turcotte , along with apprentice jockey Paul Feliciano ( first two races ) , and veteran Eddie Maple ( last race ) .
He raced in Chenery 's Meadow Stable 's blue and white  checkered रंगों  and his groom was Eddie Sweat .
Secretariat stood approximately tall , and weighed , with a  75-inch girth , in उसके  racing prime .
Madrid ( , ) is the  पूंजी और  largest city of Spain .
The population of the city is roughly 3.3 million and the  संपूर्ण जनसांख्यिकी of  the Madrid metropolitan area is calculated to be around 6.5 million .
It is the  third-largest नगर in the यूरोपीय  Union , after London and Berlin , and its metropolitan area is the third-largest in the European Union after London and Paris .
The  नगर  spans a total of .
The city is located on the Manzanares river in the centre of both the country and the Community of Madrid ( which comprises the city of Madrid , its conurbation and extended suburbs and villages ) ; this community is bordered by  the autonomous  communities of Castile and León and Castile-La Mancha .
as the पूंजी नगर of स्पेन , सीट of सरकारी  , and residence of the Spanish monarch , Madrid is also the political , economic and cultural centre of Spain .
The  वर्तमान महापौर is  Ana Botella from the People 's Party ( PP ) .
The Madrid urban agglomeration has the third-largest GDP in the European Union and  इसके प्रभाव in राजनीती , शिक्षा , entertainment , पर्यावरण , मीडिया , फ़ैशन  , science , culture , and the arts all contribute to its status as one of the world 's major global cities .
Due to its economic output , high standard of living , and market size , Madrid is considered the major  वित्तीय केन्द्र of दक्षिणी  Europe and the Iberian Peninsula ; it hosts the head offices of the vast majority of the major Spanish companies , such as Telefónica , Iberia or Repsol .
Madrid is the most touristic city of Spain   , the fourth-most touristic of the continent , and the seventh most visited city in the world according to Forbes .
Is the 10th most livable city in the world  according to monocle  magazine , in its 2010 index .
Madrid also ranks among the 12  greenest यूरोपीय  cities in 2010. < ref name= '' http : //www.citymayors.com/environment/greenest-cities-europe.html '' > Madrid is currently a Candidate City for the 2020 Summer Olympics .
Madrid houses the headquarters of the World Tourism Organization ( WTO ) , belonging to the United Nations Organization ( UN ) , the SEGIB , the Organization   of Ibero-American States ( OEI ) , and the Public Interest Oversight Board ( PIOB ) .
It also hosts major international institutions regulators of Spanish : the Standing Committee of the Association of Spanish Language  अकादमियों , मुख्यालय of the  Royal Spanish Academy ( RAE ) , the Cervantes Institute and the Foundation of Urgent Spanish ( Fundéu ) .
Madrid organizes fairs as FITUR , ARCO , SIMO TCI and the  cibeles मैड्रिड फ़ैशन  Week .
While Madrid possesses a modern infrastructure , it has  preserved the dekh और महसूस  of many of its historic neighbourhoods and streets .
Its landmarks include the Royal Palace of Madrid ; the Teatro Real ( Royal theatre ) with its restored 1850 Opera House ; the Buen Retiro Park , founded in 1631 ; the 19th-century National Library building ( founded in 1712 ) containing some of Spain 's historical archives ; a large number of National museums , and the Golden Triangle of Art , located along the Paseo del Prado and comprising three art museums : Prado Museum , the Museo Nacional Centro de Arte Reina Sofía , a museum of modern art , and the  thyssen-bornemisza संग्रहालय , जिससे completes the त्रुटियां of the अन्य  two museums .
Cibeles Palace and Fountain have become the monument  प्रतीक of the नगर .
the पाथ of the via  Appia and of the Via Appia Traiana .
remains of  the Appian Way in Rome , near Quarto Miglio
Near  रोम  .
The Appian Way ( Latin and Italian : Via Appia ) was one of the earliest and strategically most important Roman roads of the  प्राचीन गणतंत्र  .
It connected Rome to Brindisi  , apulia  , in southeast Italy .
Its importance is indicated by its common name ,  अंकित  by Statius :
Appia teritur regina  longarum  viarum
`` the Appian way is the  महारानी of the  long roads ''
The road is named after Appius Claudius Caecus , the Roman censor who began and completed the first section as a military road to the south in 312 BC during  the Samnite Wars  .
The Draupner wave , a single giant  वेव measured on नई साल 's दिन  1995 , finally confirmed the existence of freak waves , which had previously been considered near-mythical
Rogue waves ( also known as freak waves , monster waves , killer waves , extreme waves , and abnormal waves ) are relatively large and  spontaneous समंदर सतह लहरें कि  occur far out at sea , and are a threat even to large ships and ocean liners .
In oceanography , they are more precisely defined as  लहरें  whose height is more than twice the significant wave height ( SWH ) , which is itself defined as the mean of the largest third of waves in a wave record .
Therefore rogue waves are not necessarily the biggest waves found at  समुद्र ; वे हैं , बल्कि  , surprisingly large waves for a given sea state .
Rogue waves seem not to have a single distinct cause , but occur where physical factors  ऐसे as ऊँची हवाएँ और  strong currents cause waves to merge to create a single exceptionally large wave .
Electress Sophia of Hanover  (  1630–1714 )
The line of succession to the British throne is the ordered sequence of all those people eligible to  सफल to the सिंहासन of the संयुक्त किंगडम  and the other 15 Commonwealth realms .
The Act of Settlement 1701 bestowed  उत्तराधिकार on the electress sophia  of Hanover and her descendants while excluding Roman Catholics .
The British government does not publish an official list  of सब those in लकीर to सफल , लकिन the कार्य of  genealogical authors and amateur researchers suggests that there are several thousand people potentially in line .
At a summit in Perth , Western Australia in 2011 , the heads of government of  सब 16 राष्ट्रमंडल  realms agreed to take steps to adopt absolute primogeniture , end the exclusion of people married to Roman Catholics , and make other changes in the succession rules .
The line of succession is also used to select the Counsellors of State ( and a regent if the need  arises )  under the provisions of the Regency Act 1937 .
For earlier versions of the line of succession , see History of  the अंग्रेजों लकीर of  succession .
Edward Montgomery Clift ( October 17 , 1920July 23 , 1966 ) was an American film and stage actor The New  यॉर्क times’  obituary noted his portrayal of `` moody , sensitive young men '' .
He often  निभाई outsiders  and `` victim-heroes '' ; examples include the social climber in George Stevens 's A Place in the Sun , the anguished Catholic priest in Hitchcock 's I Confess , the doomed regular soldier Robert E. Lee Prewitt in Fred Zinnemann 's From Here to Eternity , and the Jewish GI bullied by antisemites in Edward Dmytryk 's The Young Lions .
Later   , after a disfiguring car crash in 1956 , and alcohol and prescription drug abuse , he became erratic .
Nevertheless important roles were still his , including `` the reckless , alcoholic ,   mother-fixated rodeo performer '' in John Huston 's The Misfits , the title role in Huston 's , and the concentration camp victim in Stanley Kramer 's Judgment at Nuremberg . ''
Clift received four Academy Award nominations during his career , three for Best Actor and one  लिये  Best Supporting Actor .
The War on Terror ( also known as the Global War on Terrorism ) is a term commonly applied to an international military campaign which started as a  परिणाम of the 11 सितंबर  2001 terrorist attacks on the United States .
इस resulted  in an international military campaign to eliminate al-Qaeda and other militant organizations .
The United Kingdom and many other NATO and  non-nato राष्ट्र participate  in the conflict .
The phrase 'War on  आतंक ' थी पहला प्रयुक्त  by US President George W. Bush on 20 September 2001 .
The Bush administration and the Western media have since used the term   to signify a global military , political , lawful , and conceptual struggle—targeting both organizations designated as terrorist and regimes accused of supporting them .
It was typically used with a particular focus  on उग्रवादी islamists , al-qaeda  , and other jihadi groups .
Although the term is not officially used by the  प्रशासन of us अध्यक्ष  Barack Obama ( which instead uses the term Overseas Contingency Operation ) , it is still commonly used by politicians , in the media and by some aspects of government officially , such as the United States ' Global War on Terrorism Service Medal .
German battleship  schleswig-holstein  , Westerplatte , September 1 , 1939
Destroyer USS Shaw exploding after her forward magazine was detonated  दौरान the  Attack on Pearl Harbor
The main causes of World War II were nationalistic issues , unresolved issues , and resentments resulting from World  युद्ध i और the interwar  period in Europe , in addition to the effects of the Great Depression in the 1930s .
The culmination of events that led to the outbreak of war are generally understood to be the 1939  आक्रमण  of Poland by Germany and Soviet Russia and the 1937 invasion of the Republic of China by the Empire of Japan .
These military aggressions were the result of decisions made by the  सत्तावादी सत्ताधारी नाजी  elite in Germany and by the leadership of the Kwantung Army in Japan .
World War II started after these aggressive actions were met with an  आधिकारिक घोषणा of युद्ध and/or हथियारबंद प्रतिरोध  .
The  following is a सूची  of gods and other divine and semi-divine figures from Greek mythology .
The list does not  शामिल जीव ; लिये ये , देखिए सूची  of Greek mythological creatures .
The Mitsubishi Galant is an automobile manufactured by Mitsubishi Motors between 1969  और  2012 .
The name was  निकला  from the French word galant , meaning `` chivalrous '' .
There have been nine distinct generations  , और संचयी  sales now exceed five million .
It began as a compact sedan , but over the course of its life has evolved into a  larger  mid-size car .
Initial production was only based in Japan , but since 1994 the American market has been served by vehicles assembled at the former  diamond-star मोटर्स ( dsm ) सुविधा in सामान्य ,  Illinois .
Blood pressure ( BP ) , sometimes referred to as arterial blood pressure  , is the दबाव exerted by circulating रक्त  upon the walls of blood vessels , and is one of the principal vital signs .
जब प्रयुक्त बगैर further specification , `` रक्त दबाव '' प्रायः refers to the arterial दबाव of the प्रणालीगत परिसंचरण  .
During each heartbeat , blood pressure varies  between a अधिकतम (  systolic ) and a minimum ( diastolic ) pressure .
The blood pressure in the circulation is principally   due to the pumping action of the heart .
Differences in mean blood pressure are  जिम्मेदार लिये रक्त प्रवाह इससे एक  location to another in the circulation .
The rate of mean blood flow depends on the resistance to flow  प्रस्तुत by the  blood vessels .
Mean blood pressure decreases  as the  circulating blood moves away from the heart through arteries and capillaries due to viscous losses of energy .
Mean blood pressure  बूंदें over the  whole circulation , although most of the fall occurs along the small arteries and arterioles .
Gravity affects blood  दबाव via hydrostatic शक्तियां ( e.g. , दौरान खड़ा ) और valves in रगों , श्वास  , and pumping from contraction of skeletal muscles also influence blood pressure in veins .
Blood pressure without  further specification  usually refers to the systemic arterial pressure measured at a person 's upper arm and is a measure of the pressure in the brachial artery , the major artery in the upper arm .
A person’s blood pressure is usually expressed in terms of the systolic pressure over diastolic pressure and is measured in  millimetres of पारा ( mmhg  ) , for example 120/80 .
A veto – Latin for `` I  forbid '' – is the शक्ति ( प्रयुक्त  by an officer of the state , for example ) to unilaterally stop an official action , especially the enactment of legislation .
A veto can be absolute , as for instance in the United Nations Security Council , whose permanent  सदस्यों ( चीन  , France , Russia , United Kingdom , United States of America ) can block any resolution .
Or it can be  सीमित , as in the विधान प्रक्रम of the  United States , where a two-thirds vote in both the House and Senate may override a Presidential veto of legislation .
A veto only gives power to stop changes , not to adopt them ( except  for  the rare `` amendatory veto '' ) .
Thus a veto allows   its holder to protect the status quo .
The concept of a veto  देह originated साथ the  Roman consuls and tribunes .
Either of the  दो consuls पकड़कर  office in a given year could block a military or civil decision by the other ; any tribune had the power to unilaterally block legislation passed by the Roman Senate .
Sulfur dioxide ( also sulphur dioxide ) is the  रासायनिक यौगिक  with the formula .
It is a toxic  gas  with a pungent , irritating smell , that is released by volcanoes and in various industrial processes .
Since coal and petroleum often contain sulfur compounds , their combustion generates sulfur dioxide unless the sulfur compounds are  removed  before burning the fuel .
further ऑक्सीकरण of so2 , प्रायः in the उपस्थिति  of a catalyst such as NO2 , forms H2SO4 , and thus acid rain .
Sulfur dioxide emissions are also a precursor to particulates in  the  atmosphere .
Both of these impacts are cause for concern over  the पर्यावरणीय  impact of these fuels .
Myasthenia gravis ( from Greek μύς `` muscle '' , `` weakness '' , and `` serious '' ; abbreviated MG ) is an autoimmune neuromuscular   disease leading to fluctuating muscle weakness and fatigability .
it is an असंक्राम्य विकार , in जिससे  weakness is caused by circulating antibodies that block acetylcholine receptors at the postsynaptic neuromuscular junction , inhibiting the excitatory effects of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine on nicotinic receptors throughout neuromuscular junctions .
Myasthenia is treated medically with acetylcholinesterase  inhibitors or immunosuppressants  , and , in selected cases , thymectomy .
The disease incidence is 3–30 cases per million per year and rising as a result of increased  जागरूकता .
MG must be distinguished from congenital  myasthenic syndromes कि can उपस्थित  similar symptoms but offer no response to immunosuppressive treatments .
परावर्तक मुड़  nematic liquid crystal display .
Polarizing filter film with a vertical axis to  polarize  light as it enters .
Glass  substrate  with ITO electrodes .
The shapes of these electrodes   will determine the shapes that will appear when the LCD is turned ON .
Vertical ridges etched  on  the surface are smooth .
Twisted  nematic  liquid crystal .
Glass substrate  साथ आम एलेक्ट्रोड फिल्मी ( ito  ) with horizontal ridges to line up with the horizontal filter .
Polarizing filter film  साथ a आड़ा  axis to block/pass light .
Reflective surface to send light  वापस to दर्शक  .
( In a backlit LCD , this layer is replaced  साथ a लाइट सोर्स  . )
A liquid-crystal display ( LCD ) is a flat panel display , electronic  विज़ुअल प्रदर्शक  , or video display that uses the light modulating properties of liquid crystals .
Liquid crystals do   not emit light directly .
LCDs are available to display  arbitrary images (  as in a general-purpose computer display ) or fixed images which can be displayed or hidden , such as preset words , digits , and 7-segment displays as in a digital clock .
They use the same basic technology , except that arbitrary images are made up of  a विशाल क्रमांक of छोटी  pixels , while other displays have larger elements .
LCDs are used in a wide range of applications including  कंप्यूटर  monitors , televisions , instrument panels , aircraft cockpit displays , and signage .
They are common in consumer devices such as video players , gaming devices , clocks , watches , calculators , and telephones , and have  replaced कैथोड रे ट्यूब (  CRT ) displays in most applications .
They are available in a wider range of  स्क्रीन  sizes than CRT and plasma displays , and since they do not use phosphors , they do not suffer image burn-in .
LCDs are , however , susceptible to image  हठ .
The LCD screen is more  उर्जा कुशल और  can be disposed of more safely than a CRT .
Its low electrical power consumption  enables it to be प्रयुक्त  in battery -powered electronic equipment .
It is an electronically modulated optical device made up of any number of segments filled with liquid crystals  और arrayed in सामने  of a light source ( backlight ) or reflector to produce images in color or monochrome .
Liquid crystals were first  खोजा in 1888  .
By 2008 , worldwide sales of televisions with LCD  screens exceeded सालाना  sales of CRT units ; the CRT became obsolete for most purposes .
The Borgata Hotel Casino and Spa is a luxury  होटल , कसीनो  , and spa in Atlantic City , New Jersey , United States .
It is owned by Marina District  विकास , a संयुक्त venture  between Boyd Gaming and a divesture trust established by MGM Resorts International .
The $ 1.1 billion casino hotel features 2,002 rooms and is  the largest  hotel in New Jersey .
The Borgata opened in July 2003 as a Las Vegas-style megaresort and is the  top-grossing कसीनो in अटलांटिक  City .
A bottle of high potency B-complex vitamin  संपूरक  pills .
A vitamin ( or ) is an organic compound required by an  सजीव as a vital nutrient  in limited amounts .
An organic chemical compound ( or related set of compounds ) is  पुकारा a विटामिन जब it  can not be synthesized in sufficient quantities by an organism , and must be obtained from the diet .
Thus , the term is conditional both on the  हालातों और on  the particular organism .
For example , ascorbic acid ( vitamin C ) is a vitamin for humans , but not for most other animals , and biotin and vitamin D are  जरूरी  in the human diet only in certain circumstances .
By convention , the term vitamin includes neither other essential nutrients , such as dietary minerals , essential fatty acids , or essential amino acids ( which are needed in larger amounts than vitamins ) nor the large number of other nutrients that promote  स्वास्थ्य  but are otherwise required less often .
तेरह विटामिन  are universally recognized at present .
Vitamins are classified by their  biological और रासायनिक  activity , not their structure .
Thus , each `` vitamin '' refers to a number  of  vitamer compounds that all show the biological activity associated with a particular vitamin .
Such a set of chemicals is grouped under an  alphabetized विटामिन  `` generic descriptor '' title , such as `` vitamin A `` , which includes the compounds retinal , retinol , and four known carotenoids .
Vitamers by definition are convertible to the active form of the vitamin in the body , and are  sometimes inter-convertible to एक another  , as well .
Vitamins have diverse  biochemical  functions .
Some have  hormone-like  functions as regulators of mineral metabolism ( such as vitamin D ) , or regulators of cell and tissue growth and differentiation ( such as some forms of vitamin A ) .
Others function as antioxidants ( e.g. ,  विटामिन  E and sometimes vitamin C ) .
The largest number of vitamins ( such as B complex vitamins )  फलन as precursors  for enzyme cofactors , that help enzymes in their work as catalysts in metabolism .
In this role , vitamins may be tightly bound to enzymes as part of prosthetic groups : For example , biotin is part of  एंजाइमों शामिल in  making fatty acids .
विटामिन may भी be कम  tightly bound to enzyme catalysts as coenzymes , detachable molecules that function to carry chemical groups or electrons between molecules .
For example , folic acid may carry methyl , formyl , and  methylene समूह in  the cell .
Although these roles in assisting enzyme-substrate reactions are vitamins '  best-known फलन , the अन्य विटामिन  functions are equally important .
Until the mid-1930s , when the first commercial yeast-extract vitamin B complex and semi-synthetic vitamin C supplement tablets were sold , vitamins were obtained solely through food intake , and changes in diet ( which , for example , could occur during a particular growing season ) usually greatly  altered the प्रकार और amounts of  vitamins ingested .
However ,  विटामिन have महरूम उत्पादित as  commodity chemicals and made widely available as inexpensive semisynthetic and synthetic-source multivitamin dietary and food supplements and additives , since the middle of the 20th century .
World Muslim population by  प्रतिशत  ( Pew Research Center , 2009 )
संसार  Muslim population in millions
Islam is the world 's second largest religion  बाद  Christianity .
According to a 2010 study , Islam has 1.62 billion adherents , making up over  23  % of the world population .
Islam is the predominant religion in the Middle East , in Sahel , in the Horn of Africa and northern Africa , and in some  भाग of एशिया .
Large communities of Muslims are also found  in चीन , the balkans  , and Russia .
Other parts of the world host large Muslim immigrant communities ; in Western Europe , for  उदाहरण , islam is the  second largest religion after Christianity , where it represents 6 % of the total population .
According to the Pew Research  बीच in 2010 वहीँ  were 49 Muslim-majority countries .
Around 62 % of the world  's  Muslims live in South and Southeast Asia , with over 1 billion adherents .
The largest Muslim  country is Indonesia  , home to 12.7 % of the world 's Muslims , followed by Pakistan ( 11.0 % ) , India ( 10.9 % ) , and Bangladesh ( 9.2 % ) .
About 20 % of Muslims live  in अरब  countries .
In the Middle East , the non-Arab countries of Turkey and Iran are the  largest muslim-majority  countries ; in Africa , Egypt and Nigeria have the most populous Muslim communities .
A study conducted by  the pew शोध बीच in 2010  and released January 2011 found that there are 1.62 billion Muslims around the world .
The  पढ़ाई  found more Muslims in the United Kingdom than in Lebanon and more in China than in Syria .
Rhode Island ( or ) , officially  the राज्य of rhode द्वीप  and Providence Plantations , is a state in the New England region of the United States .
Rhode Island is the smallest in area , the eighth least populous , but the  दूसरी  most densely populated of the 50 US states behind New Jersey .
Rhode Island is bordered by  कनेक्टिकट to the  west and Massachusetts to the north and east , and it shares a water boundary with New York 's Long Island to the southwest .
rhode द्वीप थी the पहला of the  13 original colonies to declare independence from British rule , declaring itself independent on May 4 , 1776 , two months before any other colony .
The State was also the last  of the  thirteen original colonies to ratify the United States Constitution .
Rhode Island 's official nickname is ``  the समंदर राज्य '' , a सन्दर्भ to the राज्य 's  geography , since Rhode Island has several large bays and inlets that amount to about 14 % of its total area .
Its land area  is ,  but its total area is significantly larger .
Dubai ( ; ' , ) is a city  in the संयुक्त अरब अमीरात  , located within the emirate of the same name .
The emirate of Dubai is located on the southeast coast of the Persian Gulf on the  arabian प्रायद्वीप और is एक of  the seven emirates that make up the country .
It has the largest population in the UAE ( 2,106,177 ) and the second-largest land territory by area (  4,114 km2 ) बाद abu धाबी  .
Dubai and Abu Dhabi , the national capital , are the only two emirates to have veto power over critical matters of national importance in the  देश 's विधानमंडल  .
The city of Dubai is located on  the अमीर  's northern coastline and heads up the Dubai-Sharjah-Ajman metropolitan area .
Dubai is nowadays often misperceived  as a देश or city-state  and , in some cases , the UAE as a whole has been described as 'Dubai ' .
The earliest mention of Dubai is in 1095 AD , and the earliest recorded  उपनिवेश in the प्रदेश तिथियाँ  from 1799 .
The Sheikhdom of Dubai was formally established in 1833 by Sheikh Maktoum bin Butti Al-Maktoum when he persuaded around 800  सदस्यों of उसके जनजाति  of the Bani Yas , living in what was then the Second Saudi State and now part of Saudi Arabia , to follow him to the Dubai Creek by the Abu Falasa clan of the Bani Yas .
It remained under the tribe 's control when the United Kingdom assumed protection of the Sheikhdom in 1892 and joined the nascent United Arab  अमीरात upon स्वतंत्रता  in 1971 as the country 's second emirate .
Its strategic geographic location made the town an important trading hub and by the beginning of the 20th century , Dubai was  already an  important regional port .
Today , Dubai has emerged as a cosmopolitan metropolis that has grown steadily to become a global city and a business and cultural  हब of the मध्य ईस्ट और the पारसी गल्फ  region .
हालांकि  Dubai 's economy was historically built on the oil industry , the emirate 's Western-style model of business drives its economy with the main revenues now coming from tourism , real estate , and financial services .
Dubai has recently attracted world  ध्यान through अनेक  innovative large construction projects and sports events .
The city has become symbolic for its skyscrapers and high-rise buildings , such as the world 's tallest  burj खलीफा , in जोड to महत्वाकांक्षी  development projects including man-made islands , hotels , and some of the largest shopping malls in the region and the world .
This increased attention has also highlighted labor  and  human rights issues concerning the city 's largely South Asian paid workforce .
Dubai 's property market experienced a major deterioration in 2008–2009 as a  परिणाम  of the worldwide economic downturn following the financial crisis of 2007-2008 .
However , Dubai has made a  स्थिर और क्रमिक  recovery with help coming from neighboring emirates .
The handful of new projects that are in the pipeline have been able to help Dubai  रियल एस्टेट  make a comeback .
As of 2012 , Dubai is the 22nd  सबसे महंगी नगर  in the world , and the most expensive city in the Middle East , surpassing Israel 's Tel Aviv ( 31st ) .
Dubai has also been rated as one  of the बेहतरीन स्थान to सजीव in the मध्य  East , including by US American global consulting firm Mercer who rated the city as the best place to live in the Middle East in 2011 .
The following is a list of colleges   and universities in the U.S. state of Illinois .
Surface of the Atlantic ocean meeting the  धरती  's planetary boundary layer and troposphere .
Waves on  an समंदर  coast .
This animation uses Earth science data from a variety of sensors on NASA Earth observing satellites to measure  शारीरिक oceanography पैरामीटर्स  such as ocean currents , ocean winds , sea surface height and sea surface temperature .
An ocean ( ; the World  समंदर  of classical antiquity ) is a body of saline water that composes a large part of a planet 's hydrosphere .
In the context of Earth , it refers  to एक or सब of the प्रमुख विभाजन  of the planet 's World Ocean – they are , in descending order of area , the Pacific , Atlantic , Indian , Southern ( Antarctic ) , and Arctic Oceans .
The word `` sea `` is often used interchangeably with `` ocean '' , but strictly speaking a sea is a body of  saline जल ( संभवतः a प्रभाग of the संसार समंदर  ) partly or fully enclosed by land .
Earth is the only planet known to have an ocean ( or any large  amounts of खोलें  liquid water ) .
Approximately 72  % of the ग्रह 's सतह ( ~3.6x108 km2 ) is covered by saline  water that is customarily divided into several principal oceans and smaller seas , with the ocean covering approximately 71 % of the Earth 's surface .
in शर्तें of the  hydrosphere of the Earth , the ocean contains 97 % of the Earth 's water .
oceanographers  have stated that out of 97 % , only 5 % of the ocean as a whole on Earth has been explored .
Because it is the principal component of Earth 's hydrosphere , the world ocean is integral to all known life , forms part of the  carbon  cycle , and influences climate and weather patterns .
The total volume is approximately 1.3 billion  घन किलोमीटर  ( 310 million cu mi ) with an average depth of .
It is the habitat of 230,000 known species , although much of the ocean 's depths remain unexplored and it is estimated that over two  लाख समुद्री प्रजाति  exist .
The origin of Earth 's oceans is still unknown , but oceans are believed to have formed in the Hadean period and may have been the impetus for the   emergence of life .
Extraterrestrial oceans may be composed  of a चौड़ी  range of elements and compounds .
The only confirmed large stable bodies of extraterrestrial surface liquids are the lakes of   Titan , although there is evidence for the existence of oceans elsewhere in the Solar System .
Early in their geologic histories , Mars and Venus are theorized to have had large water  महासागर  .
The Mars  समंदर परिकल्पना suggests कि nearly a तीसरा  of the surface of Mars was once covered by water , though the water on Mars is no longer oceanic , and a runaway greenhouse effect may have boiled away the global ocean of Venus .
Compounds such as salts and ammonia dissolved in water lower its freezing point , so that water might exist in large quantities  in extraterrestrial  environments as brine or convecting ice .
Unconfirmed oceans are speculated beneath the surface of many dwarf  ग्रह और प्राकृतिक  satellites ; notably , the ocean of Europa is believed to have over twice the water volume of Earth .
The Solar System 's gas giant planets are also believed to possess  द्रव वायुमंडलीय परतों  of yet to be confirmed compositions .
Oceans may also exist on exoplanets and exomoons , including surface oceans of liquid water within a  परितारकीय ठहरने  zone .
Ocean planets are a hypothetical type of planet with  a  surface completely covered with liquid .
Elvis Aaron Presley ( January 8 , 1935 – August 16 ,  1977 ) थी  an American singer and actor .
A cultural icon , he is  commonly ज्ञात  by the single name Elvis .
One of the most popular musicians of the 20th century , he is often referred to as the `` King of  चट्टान और फेंकें '' or `` the किंग  '' .
Born in  tupelo , मिसिसिपी , प्रेस्ली  moved to Memphis , Tennessee , with his family at the age of 13 .
He began his career there in 1954 , working with Sun Records owner Sam Phillips , who wanted to bring the sound of African-American music to a  wider दर्शक  .
Accompanied by guitarist Scotty Moore and bassist Bill Black , Presley was the most important popularizer  of  rockabilly , an uptempo , backbeat -driven fusion of country and rhythm and blues .
RCA Victor acquired his contract in a deal  arranged by कर्नल tom पार्कर ,  who went on to manage the singer for over two decades .
Presley 's first RCA single , `` Heartbreak Hotel `` , released in  जनवरी  1956 , was a number-one hit .
He became the leading figure of the newly popular sound of  चट्टान और फेंकें साथ a श्रेणी  of network television appearances and chart-topping records .
His energized interpretations of songs , many from African-American  स्त्रोत , और उसके uninhibited प्रदर्शन  style made him enormously popular—and controversial .
in नवम्बर  1956 , he made his film debut in Love Me Tender .
Drafted into military service in 1958 , Presley relaunched his recording career two years later with some  of उसके सबसे  commercially successful work .
He staged few concerts however , and guided by Parker , proceeded to devote much of the 1960s to making Hollywood movies and  साउंडट्रैक एल्बम , सबसे of उन्हें critically derided  .
In 1968 ,  बाद सात सालो दूर इससे  the stage , he returned to live performance in a celebrated comeback television special that led to an extended Las Vegas concert residency and a string of profitable tours .
In 1973 Presley staged the first concert broadcast  globally via  satellite , Aloha from Hawaii .
नुस्खा ड्रग गाली  severely deteriorated his health , and he died suddenly in 1977 at the age of 42 .
प्रेस्ली is regarded  as one of the most important figures of 20th-century popular culture .
He had a versatile voice and unusually wide success encompassing  अनेक जाति , सहित  country , pop ballads , gospel , and blues .
He is the best-selling solo  कलाकार  in the history of popular music .
Nominated for 14 competitive Grammys , he won three , and received the Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award at age  36  .
He has been  inducted into अनेक  music halls of fame .
A glass of root  बियर साथ  foam
Root beer is a carbonated , sweetened beverage  , originally  made using the root of a sassafras plant ( or the bark of a sassafras tree ) as the primary flavor .
Root beer ,  popularized  in North America , comes in two forms : alcoholic and soft drink .
The historical root beer was analogous to small beer in that the process  provided a पेय साथ  a very low alcohol content .
Although roots are used  as the सोर्स of अनेक नरम  drinks throughout the world , often different names are used .
Fluorescent minerals emit visible  लाइट  when exposed to ultraviolet light
Fluorescence is the emission   of light by a substance that has absorbed light or other electromagnetic radiation .
It  is  a form of luminescence .
In most cases , the emitted light has a longer wavelength , and  इसलिए  lower energy , than the absorbed radiation .
However , when the absorbed electromagnetic radiation is intense , it is possible for one electron to absorb two  photons  ; this two-photon absorption can lead to emission of radiation having a shorter wavelength than the absorbed radiation .
The emitted radiation may also be of the same wavelength as the absorbed  विकिरण , termed ``  resonance fluorescence '' .
The most striking examples of fluorescence occur when the absorbed radiation is in the ultraviolet  प्रदेश of the वर्णक्रम , और यूँ  invisible to the human eye , and the emitted light is in the visible region .
Fluorescence has many practical applications , including mineralogy , gemology , chemical sensors ( fluorescence spectroscopy ) , fluorescent labelling , dyes , biological detectors , and ,  सबसे commonly  , fluorescent lamps .
Informal logic , intuitively , refers to the principles of logic and logical thought outside   of a formal setting .
However ,  शायद क्युकी of the अनौपचारिक in the शीर्षक , the precise परिभाषा of अनौपचारिक लॉजिक is a पदार्थ of कुछ विवाद .
Ralph H.  जॉनसन और J. एंथोनी ब्लेयर define अनौपचारिक  logic as `` a branch of logic whose task is to develop non-formal standards , criteria , procedures for the analysis , interpretation , evaluation , criticism and construction of argumentation . ''
This definition reflects what had been implicit in their practice and what others  यहूद doing in उनके  informal logic texts .
Informal logic is associated with ( informal )  fallacies , नाजुक सोच , the सोच कौशल  Movement and the interdisciplinary inquiry known as argumentation theory .
Frans H. van Eemeren writes that the label `` informal logic '' covers a `` collection of normative approaches to the study of reasoning in  ordinary  language that remain closer to the practice of argumentation than formal logic . ''
USA annual real GDP 1910–60 , with the years of the Great  अवसाद ( 1929–1939  ) highlighted .
Unemployment rate in the US 1910–1960 , with the  सालो  of the Great Depression ( 1929–1939 ) highlighted .
The Great Depression began in August of  1929 ,  when the United States economy first went into an economic recession .
Although the country spent two months with declining GDP , it was not until the Wall Street Crash of  अक्तूबर , 1929 कि the प्रभाव of a घटती  economy were felt , and a major worldwide economic downturn ensued .
The market crash marked the beginning of a decade of high unemployment , poverty , low profits , deflation , plunging farm incomes , and lost opportunities for economic  विकास और निजी उन्नति  .
Although its causes are still uncertain and controversial , the net effect was a sudden and general loss of  विश्वास  in the economic future .
The usual explanations include numerous factors , especially high consumer debt , ill-regulated markets that permitted overoptimistic loans by banks and investors , and the lack of high-growth new industries , all interacting to create a downward economic spiral of reduced  बिता , गिरना विश्वास , और lowered उत्पादन  .
Industries that suffered the most included construction , agriculture as  dust-bowl शर्तें  persisted in the agricultural heartland , shipping , mining , and logging as well as durable goods like automobiles and appliances that could be postponed .
The economy reached bottom in the winter of 1932–33 ; then came  चार सालो of बहुत रैपिड विकास जबतक 1937 ,  when the Recession of 1937 brought back 1934 levels of unemployment .
The Depression  caused प्रमुख  political changes in America .
Three years into the depression , Herbert Hoover lost the 1932 presidential election to Franklin  delano  Roosevelt in a sweeping landslide .
Roosevelt 's economic recovery plan , the New Deal ,  instituted unprecedented कार्यक्रम  for relief , recovery and reform , and brought about a major realignment of American politics .
The Depression also resulted in an increase of emigration of people to other  देशों लिये the पहला  time in American history .
For example , some immigrants went back to their native countries ,  और कुछ देशी us  citizens went to Canada , Australia , and South Africa .
It also resulted in the mass migration of people from badly hit areas in the Great  मैदान और the दक्षिण to स्थान ऐसे as कैलिफ़ोर्निया और the उत्तर , क्रमशः  ( see Okies and the Great Migration of African Americans ) .
Racial tensions also increased  दौरान  this time .
By the 1940s  आव्रजन था  returned back to normal , and emigration declined .
A well-known example of an emigrant was  फ़्रैंक mccourt , जो गई to आयरलैंड , as recounted  in his book Angela 's Ashes .
The memory of the Depression also shaped modern theories of economics and resulted in many  परिवर्तन in कैसा the सरकारी dealt साथ  economic downturns , such as the use of stimulus packages , Keynesian economics , and Social Security .
It also  तराशा आधुनिक अमरीकी साहित्य  , resulting in famous novels such as John Steinbeck 's `` The Grapes of Wrath `` and `` Of Mice and Men `` .
The Great Depression of the 1930s started with the stock market crash  of अक्तूबर  1929 .
Turkey ( ) , officially the Republic of Turkey , is a transcontinental   country , located mostly on Anatolia in Western Asia and on East Thrace in Southeastern Europe .
Turkey is bordered by eight countries : Bulgaria to the northwest ; Greece to the west ; Georgia to  the पूर्वोत्तर ; अर्मेनिया , इरान और the अज़रबैजानी  exclave of Nakhchivan to the east ; and Iraq and Syria to the southeast .
The Mediterranean Sea is to the  south  ; the Aegean Sea is to the west ; and the Black Sea is to the north .
The Sea of Marmara , the Bosphorus and the Dardanelles ( which together form the Turkish Straits ) demarcate the boundary between Thrace and Anatolia ; they  भी पृथक यूरोपीय और एशिया .
Turkey 's location at the  क्रॉसरोड्स of यूरोपीय और एशिया makes it a देश  of significant geostrategic importance .
The country 's official language is Turkish , a Turkic language , which is spoken by approximately 85 % of the  जनसांख्यिकी as  mother tongue .
The most numerous ethnic group is the Turks , who constitute between 70 % and 75 % of the population  according to the संसार factbook  .
Kurds are the largest ethnic  अल्पसंख्यक और , according to  the same source , number around 18 % of the population while other ethnic minorities are estimated to be at 7–12 % .
the विशाल बहुमत  of the population is Muslim .
The area now called  तुर्कों रै महरूम inhabited  since the Paleolithic , including various Ancient Anatolian civilizations and Thracian peoples .
After Alexander the Great 's conquest , the area was Hellenized , which continued with  the रोमन नियम  and the transition into the Byzantine Empire .
The Seljuk Turks began migrating into the area in the 11th century , starting the process of Turkification , which was greatly  त्वरित  by the Seljuk victory over the Byzantines at the Battle of Manzikert in 1071 .
The Seljuk Sultanate of Rûm ruled Anatolia until the Mongol invasion  in 1243 , upon जिससे it disintegrated  into several small Turkish beyliks .
Starting from the late 13th century , the Ottoman beylik united Anatolia and created an empire encompassing   much of Southeastern Europe , Western Asia and North Africa .
After the Ottoman Empire collapsed following its defeat in World War I , parts of it were  occupied by  the victorious Allies .
A cadre of young military officers , led by Mustafa Kemal Atatürk and his  सहयोगियों , व्यवस्थित a कामयाब  resistance to the Allies ; in 1923 they established the modern Republic of Turkey , with Atatürk as its first president .
Turkey is a democratic , secular , unitary , constitutional republic  साथ a विविध सांस्कृतिक  heritage .
Turkey has become increasingly integrated with the West through membership in organisations such  as  the Council of Europe , NATO , OECD , OSCE and the G-20 major economies .
Turkey began full membership negotiations with the European Union in 2005 , having been an associate member of the European Economic  जातियाँ चूंकि 1963 और having joined the eu कस्टम संघ  in 1995 .
Turkey has also fostered close cultural , political and economic relations with the Middle East , Caucasus , the Turkic states of Central Asia and the African countries through membership in organisations such as the Turkic Council , Joint Administration of Turkic Arts and Culture , Organisation of  इस्लामी सहयोग और the आर्थिक  Cooperation Organisation .
Turkey 's growing  अर्थव्यवस्था  and diplomatic initiatives have led to its recognition as a regional power .
Turkey is the world 's 17th largest economy by nominal GDP and the 16th largest by  खरीदना शक्ति  parity .
Caryn Elaine Johnson , best known as Whoopi Goldberg ( , ( born  नवम्बर 13 , 1955 ) is an अमरीकी  comedienne , actress , singer-songwriter , political activist , author and talk show host .
Goldberg made her film debut in The Color Purple ( 1985 ) ,  playing  Celie , a mistreated black woman in the Deep South .
She received a nomination for the Academy Award  लिये  Best Actress and won her first Golden Globe Award for her role in the film .
in 1990 , वो  played Oda Mae Brown , a wacky psychic helping a slain man ( Patrick Swayze ) save his lover ( Demi Moore ) in the blockbuster Ghost .
This performance won her a second Golden Globe and an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress ; this made Goldberg only the  दूसरी ब्लैक स्त्री in the इतिहास  of the Academy Awards to win an acting Oscar—the first being Hattie McDaniel who won for Gone With the Wind in 1939 .
Notable later films include Sister Act and Sister Act 2 , The Player , Made in  अमेरिका , कैसा स्टेला मिला उसके नाली वापस  , Girl , Interrupted and Rat Race .
She is also acclaimed for her roles as the bartender Guinan in Star Trek : The Next Generation , as Terry Doolittle in Jumpin ' Jack Flash , and as Carmen  tibideaux in ग्ली , as खूब as the आवाज़  of Shenzi the hyena in The Lion King .
गोल्डबर्ग रै महरूम मनोनीत लिये  13 Emmy Awards for her work in television .
She was co-producer of the popular game show  हॉलीवुड वर्गों  from 1998 to 2004 .
She has been the moderator of the daytime talk  दिखाएँ the दृश्य चूंकि  2007 .
Goldberg has a Grammy , two Daytime Emmys , two Golden Globes , a Tony ( for  उत्पादन ,  not acting ) , and an Oscar .
In addition , Goldberg has a British Academy Film Award , four People 's Choice  पुरस्कार , और रै महरूम सम्मानित साथ a स्टार  on the Hollywood Walk of Fame .
She is one of the few entertainers who have  जीती an  Emmy , Grammy , Oscar , and Tony Award .
Augusta is a  संचित नगर in the u.S.  state of Georgia , located at the fall line of the Savannah River , at the head of its navigable portion .
As of the 2010 census , the Augusta– Richmond County population was 195,844  नहीं गिनती the unconsolidated  cities of Hephzibah and Blythe .
Augusta is the principal city of the Augusta  –  Richmond County Metropolitan Statistical Area , which as of 2010 had an estimated population of 556,877 , making it both the second-largest city and the second-largest metro area in the state after Atlanta .
It is the 116th-largest city in the  संयुक्त  States .
Internationally , Augusta is best known for hosting The  मास्टर्स टूर्नामेंट  in golf each spring .
A CD-ROM ( )  is a pre-pressed  compact disc which contains data .
The name is an acronym which stands for ``  कॉम्पैक्ट डिस्क  Read-only memory `` .
कंप्यूटर  can read CD-ROMs , but can not write on them .
CD-ROMs are popularly used to distribute computer software , including video games and multimedia  अनुप्रयोग , हालांकि कोई आंकड़ा can  be stored ( up to the capacity limit of a disc ) .
Some CDs , called enhanced CDs , hold both computer data and audio with the latter capable of being  निभाई on a cd खिलाड़ी , जबकि  data ( such as software or digital video ) is only usable on a computer ( such as ISO 9660 format PC CD-ROMs ) .
The Yellow Book is the technical standard that  defines  the format of CD-ROMs .
One of a set of color-bound books that contain the   technical specifications for all CD formats , the Yellow Book , created by Sony and Philips , was the first extension of Compact Disc Digital Audio .
it  adapted the format to hold any form of data .
The  शिकागो ब्लैकहॉक्स ( spelled as ब्लैक चीलों  before 1986 , and known colloquially as the Hawks ) are a professional ice hockey team based in Chicago , Illinois .
They are members of the Central Division of the Western Conference of  the नेशनल हॉकी लीग ( एनएचएल  ) .
They have won four Stanley Cup championships since their  founding  in 1926 , most recently in 2009–10 .
The Blackhawks are one of the Original Six NHL teams , along with the Detroit Red Wings , Montreal Canadiens , Toronto  मेपल leafs , बोस्टन bruins और नई  York Rangers .
Since the  ब्लैकहॉक्स have  played their home games at the United Center after having spent 65 years playing at Chicago Stadium .
lent  celebrants carrying out a street procession during Holy Week .
The  बैंगनी  color is often associated with penance and detachment .
Similar Christian penitential practice is seen in other  कैथोलिक देशों , sometimes  associated with mortification of the flesh .
Granada ,  निकारागुआ  .
Lent ( Latin : Quadragesima ) is a  solemn observance in the liturgical  year of many Christian denominations , lasting for a period of approximately six weeks leading up to Easter Sunday .
In the general Latin-rite and most Western denominations Lent is  लिया to चलाएं इससे राख बुधवार to  Maundy Thursday ( Holy Thursday ) morning or to Easter Eve .
In the Catholic Church , Lent lasts until Holy Thursday , while other  denominations चलाएं जबतक  Easter Eve .
The traditional purpose of Lent is the preparation  of the आस्तिक through  prayer , penance , repentance , almsgiving , and self-denial .
इसके संस्थागत purpose is heightened in the सालाना commemoration of पावन सप्ताह , अंकन the मौत , दफ़न और क़यामत of यीशु , जिससे recalls the कार्यक्रम of the बाइबल जब यीशु is crucified on शुभ शुक्रवार , जिससे तब culminates in the जश्न on ईस्टर संडे of the क़यामत of यीशु मसीह  .
During  lent , अनेक of the  faithful commit to fasting or giving up certain types of luxuries as a form of penitence .
The Stations of the Cross , a devotional commemoration  of मसीह  's carrying the Cross and of his execution , are often observed .
Many  रोमन कैथोलिक और कुछ प्रोटोस्टेंट चर्च हटाएँ  flowers from their altars , while crucifixes , religious statues , and other elaborate religious symbols are often veiled in violet fabrics in solemn observance of the event .
In certain pious Catholic countries , some adherents mark the season with  the परंपरागत  abstention from the consumption of meat .
In some countries , grand religious processions and cultural customs are observed , and the faithful attempt to visit seven  चर्च दौरान पावन सप्ताह in सम्मान  of Jesus Christ heading to Mount Calvary .
Lent is traditionally described as lasting for forty days , in commemoration of the forty days which , according to the Gospels of Matthew , Mark and Luke , Jesus spent  उपवास in the मरुस्थल पहले the शुरूआत  of his public ministry , where he endured temptation by the Devil .
However , different Christian denominations calculate the forty days of Lent  differently  .
In most Western traditions the Sundays are not counted as part of Lent ; thus the period from Ash Wednesday until Easter consists of 40  दिनों  when the Sundays are excluded .
However in the Roman Catholic Church Lent is now taken to end  on पावन गुरुवार बल्कि  than Easter Eve , and hence lasts 38 days excluding Sundays , or 44 days in total .
This event , along with its pious customs are observed by Catholics , Lutherans , Methodists ,  presbyterians , और anglicans  .
Location of Chernobyl  नाभिकीय शक्ति  plant
The abandoned city of Pripyat with Chernobyl plant in the  अलहदा
Abandoned  आवास ब्लॉक  in Pripyat
The Chernobyl  विपत्ति ( , chornobylska katastrofa – chornobyl प्रलय ) थी a अनर्थकारी नाभिकीय दुर्घटना  that occurred on 26 April 1986 at the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant in Ukraine ( then officially the Ukrainian SSR ) , which was under the direct jurisdiction of the central authorities of the Soviet Union .
An explosion and fire released  विशाल quantities  of radioactive particles into the atmosphere , which spread over much of the western USSR and Europe .
The Chernobyl disaster is widely considered to have been the worst nuclear power plant accident in history , and is one of only two  वर्गीकृत as a स्तर  7 event on the International Nuclear Event Scale ( the other being the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster in 2011 ) .
The battle to contain the  संदूषण और avert  a greater catastrophe ultimately involved over 500,000 workers and cost an estimated 18 billion rubles .
The official Soviet casualty count of 31  मौतों रै महरूम  disputed , and long-term effects such as cancers and deformities are still being accounted for .
In grammar , a subject complement is  a predicative अभिव्यक्ति  that follows a linking verb ( copula ) and that complements ( completes ) the subject of the sentence by either ( 1 ) renaming it or ( 2 ) describing it .
In the former case , a renaming noun phrase  ऐसे as a संज्ञा or सर्वनाम  is called a predicative nominal .
An adjective following the copula and describing the subject is  पुकारा a predicative  adjective .
In either case  the  predicative complement in effect mirrors the subject .
Subject complements are used with a small class of verbs called linking verbs  or copula  , of which be is the most common .
Since copula are stative verbs , subject complements are  नहीं प्रभावित  by any action of the verb .
Subject complements are typically not clause arguments , nor are they  clause केंद्रीभूत  .
Throughout the fifty-five year history of the Grammy Awards , many significant records have been  नियत  .
This page only includes the  प्रतिस्पर्धी  awards won by various artists .
This does not include the various special awards that are  प्रस्तुत by the नेशनल अकादमी of रिकॉर्डिंग कला और  Sciences such as Lifetime Achievement Awards , Trustees Awards , Technical Awards or Legend Awards .
The page however does include other non-performance related Grammys (  ज्ञात as the शिल्प & उत्पादन  Fields ) that may have been presented to the artist ( s ) .
Marshall Bruce Mathers III ( born October 17 , 1972 ) , better known by his stage name Eminem ( stylized as EMINƎM ) and by his alter ego Slim Shady , is  an अमरीकी rapper , रिकार्ड निर्माता  , songwriter and actor .
Eminem , along with his  सोलो करियर , is a सदस्य of उसके  group D12 , and also one half of the hip hop duo Bad Meets Evil , with Royce da 5'9 '' .
Eminem is one of the best-selling artists in the  संसार और  is the best-selling artist of the 2000s .
He has been listed and ranked as one  of the महानतम  artists of all time by many magazines , including Rolling Stone magazine which ranked him 82nd on its list of The 100 Greatest Artists of All Time .
The same magazine  घोषित  him The King of Hip Hop .
Including his work with D12 and Bad Meets Evil , Eminem has achieved ten  number-one एल्बम on the  Billboard 200 .
He has sold more than 100 million records worldwide ,  सहित 42 लाख  tracks and 49.1 million albums in the United States .
As an underground rapper Eminem released his debut solo album  , अनन्त  in 1996 .
The album was a  नाजुक और वाणिज्यिक  failure .
He gained mainstream  लोकप्रियता in 1999 बाद  the release of his major-label debut album The Slim Shady LP .
The LP also earned Eminem his first Grammy Award  लिये  Best Rap Album .
His next two records The Marshall Mathers LP , and The Eminem Show , also won Best Rap Album Grammy Awards , making Eminem the  पहला कलाकार to जीत बेहतरीन रैप एल्बम  for three consecutive LPs .
This was followed by another studio  रिलीज in 2004 titled  Encore .
Eminem then went on hiatus after touring  in 2005  .
He released his  पहला एल्बम  in five years titled Relapse , on May 15 , 2009 .
In 2010 , Eminem  released उसके सातवाँ  studio album Recovery .
Recovery  थी an अंतरराष्ट्रीय कामयाबी और थी  named the best selling album of 2010 worldwide , joining The Eminem Show , which was the best seller of 2002 .
Eminem won Grammy Awards for both Relapse and  रिकवरी , giving उसे  a total of 13 Grammys in his career .
Eminem has opened  अन्य ventures  , including his own record label Shady Records with his manager Paul Rosenberg .
He also has his own  रेडियो चैनल  , Shade 45 on Sirius XM Radio .
Eminem began an acting  करियर in 2002 , जब he स्ट्रक्चर  in the hip hop drama film 8 Mile .
He won the Academy  पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन असली सोंग  , becoming the first rap artist ever to win the award .
He has also made cameo appearances in The Wash ( 2001 ) ,  मजेदार लोगों  ( 2009 ) and the television series Entourage .
The acre is a unit  of क्षेत्रफल प्रयुक्त in  the imperial and U.S. customary systems .
An acre is about 40 % of a hectare –  थोड़ा छोटी than an अमरीकी  football field .
The acre is no longer commonly used , although a few notable exceptions include the United States , Australia , Burma and the United  किंगडम ( as of 2010 , the एकड़ is no longer  officially used in the United Kingdom , though is still used in real estate descriptions ) .
It is  स्टिल प्रयुक्त , to  some extent , in Canada .
The international symbol of the acre is ac  ,  and is defined as 1/640 of a square mile .
The most commonly used acre  आज is  the international acre .
In the United  राज्य दोनो the अंतरराष्ट्रीय  acre and the slightly different US survey acre are in use .
The most common  उपयोग of the एकड़  is to measure tracts of land .
One  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  acre is defined as 4046.8564224 square metres .
During the Middle  आयु , an  acre was the amount of land that could be plowed in one day with a yoke of oxen .
Antoine Lavoisier 's discovery of the  विधि of संरक्षण  of Mass led to many new findings in the 19th century .
Joseph Proust 's law of definite proportions and John Dalton 's  परमाणु सिद्धान्त branched इससे  the discoveries of Antoine Lavoisier .
Lavoisier 's quantitative experiments revealed that combustion  शामिल ऑक्सीजन बल्कि than कया थी previously  thought to be phlogiston .
The law of conservation of mass , or principle of mass conservation , states that for any system closed to all transfers of matter and energy ( both of which have mass ) , the mass of the system must remain  निरंतर over समय , as प्रणाली द्रव्यमान can नहीं बदलें मात्रा if it is नहीं added or removed .
Hence , the  मात्रा of द्रव्यमान is  `` conserved '' over time .
The law implies that mass can neither be created nor destroyed , although it may be rearranged  in स्पेस , or the entities संबद्ध साथ it may be  changed in form , as for example when light or physical work is transformed into particles that contribute the same mass to the system as the light or work had contributed .
The law implies ( requires  ) कि दौरान कोई रासायनिक प्रतिक्रिया  , nuclear reaction , or radioactive decay in an isolated system , the mass of the reactants or starting material must equal the mass of the products .
The  अवधारणा of  mass conservation is widely used in many fields such as chemistry , mechanics , and fluid dynamics .
Historically , mass conservation was discovered in chemical reactions by Antoine Lavoisier in the  लेट 18th सदी , और  was of crucial importance in the progress from alchemy to the modern natural science of chemistry .
The closely related concept of matter conservation was found to hold good  in रसायन to ऐसे ऊँची सन्निकटन कि it  failed only for the high energies treated by the later refinements of relativity theory , but otherwise remains useful and sufficiently accurate for most chemical calculations , even in modern practice .
In special relativity , needed for accuracy when large energy transfers between systems is involved , the difference between thermodynamically closed and isolated systems becomes important , since conservation of mass is strictly and perfectly upheld only for so-called isolated systems , i.e . those  completely पृथक  from all exchanges with the environment .
In  इस परिस्थिति , the mass-energy equivalence  theorem states that mass conservation is equivalent to total energy conservation , which is the first law of thermodynamics .
By contrast , for a  thermodynamically बंद प्रणाली ( i.e. , एक जिससे  is closed to exchanges of matter , but open to exchanges of non-material energy , such as heat and work , with the surroundings ) mass is ( usually ) only approximately conserved .
The input or output of non-material energy must change the mass of the system in relativity theory , although the change is usually small , since relatively large amounts of such energy ( by comparison with  ordinary अनुभव ) carry  only a small amount of mass ( again by ordinary standards of measurement ) .
In special relativity , mass is not converted to energy , since energy in all of its forms always retains its equivalent amount of mass throughout any transformation or translocation  into , or आउट of , a  system .
However , certain types of matter ( a different concept ) may be converted to energy , so long as the mass of the system is unchanged in the  प्रक्रम  .
However , if such energy is removed from systems , they must lose the mass  कि is संबद्ध  with it .
In general relativity , mass ( and energy ) conservation in expanding volumes of space is a complex concept , subject to different definitions , and neither  द्रव्यमान nor उर्जा is as सख्ती और बस conserved as is the मामला in  special relativity and in Minkowski space .
For a discussion , see mass  in सामान्य  relativity .
A pig is any of the  पशु in the genus सस , भीतर  the Suidae family of even-toed ungulates .
Pigs include the domestic pig , its ancestor the wild boar , and  अनेक अन्य  wild relatives .
Young  और  small pigs are known as piglets .
Pigs are omnivores and are  अत्यधिक सोशल  and intelligent animals .
8-inch , -inch , and -inch floppy  डिस्क
8-inch , -inch ( full  ऊँचाई  ) , and -inch drives
A 3.5-inch diskette 's `` floppy '' magnetic material , removed from  इसके आवास
A floppy disk , or diskette , is a disk storage medium composed of a disk of thin and flexible  चुम्बकीय भंडार मीडियम , sealed in a  rectangular plastic carrier lined with fabric that removes dust particles .
They are read and  लिखा by  a floppy disk drive ( FDD ) .
Floppy disks , initially as media and later in and  3.5-inch ( 90 mm ) आकार , यहूद  a ubiquitous form of data storage and exchange from the mid-1970s well into the first decade of the 21st century .
By 2010 , computer motherboards were rarely manufactured with floppy drive support ; `` floppies could be used as an external USB drive , but `` , 8 `` ,  और non-standard  drives could only be handled by old equipment .
While floppy disk drives still have some limited uses , especially with legacy industrial computer equipment , they have been superseded by data storage methods with much greater capacity , such as USB flash drives ,  पोर्टेबल बाह्य मुश्किल डिस्क ड्राइव  , optical discs , memory cards , and computer networks .
An animated  आरेख of a  cutter
In baseball , a cutter , or cut fastball , is a type of fastball which breaks  थोड़ा toward the पिचर  's glove side as it reaches home plate .
This pitch is somewhere between a slider and a fastball , as it is  प्रायः  thrown faster than a slider but with more motion than a typical fastball .
Some pitchers use a cutter as  a रास्ता to prevent hitters इससे expecting  their regular fastballs .
A common  तकनीक प्रयुक्त to throw  a cutter is to use a four-seam fastball grip with the baseball set slightly off center in the hand .
When a batter is able to hit a cutter pitch , it often results in soft contact and an easy out , due to the  पिच 's  movement keeping the ball away from the bat 's sweet spot .
The cutter is typically 2–5 mph slower  than a पिचर  's four-seam fastball .
In 2010 , the average pitch classified as a cutter by PITCHf/x thrown by a right-handed pitcher was 88.6 mph ;  the  average four-seamer was 92.1 mph .
`` What  it takes  '' is a power ballad by American hard rock band Aerosmith .
It was written by Steven Tyler , Joe Perry ,  और  Desmond Child .
It was released in 1990  as the तीसरा सिंगल इससे एरोस्मिथ  's critically and commercially successful 1989 album Pump .
In the video The  बनाना  of Pump , A & R man John Kalodner described the song as `` a masterpiece '' .
During live performances  , टायलर गाती  the first verse a cappella and belts out one of his signature screams right before the chorus .
the एल्बम संस्करण  of the song is followed by an untitled hidden track .
Head of Odysseus from a Greek 2nd century BC marble group representing  odysseus  blinding Polyphemus , found at the villa of Tiberius at Sperlonga
Detail of an  प्राचीन रोमन  mosaic of Ulysses in Tunisia
Odysseus ( or ; Greek : , ) , also known  by the Roman  name Ulysses ( ; ) , was a legendary Greek king of Ithaca and a hero of Homer 's epic poem the Odyssey .
Odysseus also  plays a कुंजी भूमिका  in Homer 's Iliad and other works in that same Epic Cycle .
Husband of Penelope , father of Telemachus , and son of Laërtes ( or Sisyphus ) and Anticlea , Odysseus is renowned for his brilliance , guile  , and versatility (  polytropos ) , and is hence known by the epithet Odysseus the Cunning ( mētis , or `` cunning intelligence `` ) .
He is most famous for the ten eventful years he took to return home after the decade-long  trojan युद्ध और उसके प्रसिद्ध  Trojan Horse ploy to capture the city of Troy .
Erie is a Statutory   Town in Boulder and Weld counties in the U.S. state of Colorado .
The population according  to the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी is 18,135  and was recorded as 6,291 at the 2000 census .
The Town of Erie is located just west of I-25 for easy access to I-70 , Denver International Airport and Colorado 's   entire Front Range .
erie 's नियोजन क्षेत्रफल spans 48 वर्गाकार मील , extending  from the north side of State Highway 52 south to State Highway 7 , and between US 287 on the west and Interstate 25 to the east .
Erie is approximately 35 minutes from  डेनवर अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Airport , 25 minutes to Denver and 20 minutes from Boulder .
The Board of Trustees serves as the legislative and governing body of  the कस्बा of erie और is जिम्मेदार लिये establishing  Town policies and goals .
The Board has the authority to adopt laws , ordinances and resolutions as needed to  conduct  the business of the Town , and by ordinance may enter into contracts or intergovernmental agreements to furnish , receive services or to provide for cooperative service delivery .
Appointed by and serving at the pleasure of the Board of Trustees , the Town Administrator is the chief operating and administrative  officer of the  Town and is responsible for providing professional leadership in the administration and execution of policies and objectives formulated by the Board .
The mission of the Erie Police Department is to communicate and work with the community to maintain a  safe  environment , prevent crime and enforce the law , while protecting the rights of all .
Erie  नगरपालिका  Airport ( EIK ) is owned and operated by the Town of Erie and is strategically located in the Denver-Boulder metropolitan area on Colorado Highway 7 , a little over three miles west of Interstate 25 .
the प्रमुख रनवे is कंक्रीट प्रशस्त और 4,700 फीट long .
The is a home video game  कंसोल  produced by Sony Computer Entertainment .
It is the successor to the PlayStation  2 , as भाग of the प्लेस्टेशन  series .
The PlayStation 3 competes with Microsoft  's एक्सबॉक्स 360 और निन्टेंडो  's Wii as part of the seventh generation of video game consoles .
It was first released on  नवम्बर 11 , 2006 , in जापानी , साथ अंतरराष्ट्रीय  markets following shortly thereafter .
The  कंसोल  was first officially announced at E3 2005 .
Originally set for a spring 2006 release date , it was delayed several  टाइम्स जबतक आखिरकार  hitting stores at the end of the year .
It was the first and currently only console to  use  Blu-ray Disc as its primary storage medium .
Major features of the console include its unified online gaming service , the PlayStation Network , and its connectivity with the PlayStation  पोर्टेबल  and PlayStation Vita , In September 2009 the updated PlayStation 3 Slim , was released .
This Slim is lighter and thinner than the original version , although it lacks PlayStation 2 backwards compatibility ( removed on later original models ) , but notably  प्रदर्शित a re-designed लोगो और विपणन डिज़ाइन  .
As of November 4 , 2012 , 70 million  प्लेस्टेशन 3s  have been sold worldwide .
Its successor , PlayStation 4  , is नियत लिये  a Q4 2013 release .
Salvador Domingo Felipe   Jacinto Dalí i Domènech , 1st Marqués de Dalí de Pubol ( May 11 , 1904January 23 , 1989 ) , known as Salvador Dalí ( ) , was a prominent Spanish surrealist painter born in Figueres , Spain .
dalí थी a skilled  draftsman , best known for the striking and bizarre images in his surrealist work .
His  painterly कौशल  are often attributed to the influence of Renaissance masters .
His best-known work , The Persistence of Memory , was  समाप्त in 1931  .
Dalí 's expansive artistic repertoire included film , sculpture , and  छायाचित्र , in सहयोग  with a range of artists in a variety of media .
Dalí attributed his `` love of everything that is gilded and excessive , my passion for luxury  और my प्रेम  of oriental clothes '' to a self-styled `` Arab lineage '' , claiming that his ancestors were descended from the Moors .
Dalí was highly imaginative , and also enjoyed indulging in unusual and  वैभवशाली  behavior .
His eccentric manner and attention-grabbing public actions sometimes drew more attention than his artwork , to the dismay  of those who held his work in  high esteem , and to the irritation of his critics .
पारस  Plato by Silanion
The humanities are academic disciplines that study human culture , using methods that are primarily analytical , critical ,  or सट्टे , और having a significant ऐतिहासिक तत्व , as विशिष्ट  from the mainly empirical approaches of the natural sciences .
The  मानवता  include ancient and modern languages , literature , philosophy , religion , and visual and performing arts such as music and theatre .
The humanities that are also regarded as social sciences  शामिल इतिहास , मानवशास्त्र  , area studies , communication studies , cultural studies , law , economics and linguistics .
विद्वानों working  in the humanities are sometimes described as `` humanists '' .
However , that term also describes the philosophical  स्थिति  of humanism , which some `` antihumanist `` scholars in the humanities reject .
Some secondary schools offer humanities classes , usually consisting of English literature , global  अध्ययन , और  art .
Human disciplines like history , cultural anthropology  और मनोविश्लेषण पढ़ाई विषय matters to जिससे the प्रायोगिक  method does not apply , and they have access instead to the comparative method and comparative research .
The 2005 Blue Room Christmas  पेड़
The White House Christmas Tree , also known as the Blue Room Christmas Tree , is the official indoor Christmas tree at the residence of  the अध्यक्ष  of the United States , the White House .
The first indoor Christmas tree was installed in the White House sometime in the 19th century ( there are varying claims as to the exact year ) and since 1961 the tree has had a themed motif at  the discretion of the पहला महिला  of the United States .
The President of the United States of America ( POTUS ) is the head of state and head of government of  the संयुक्त  States .
The president leads the  कार्यपालिका शाखा of the संघीय  government and is the commander-in-chief of the United States Armed Forces .
Article II of the U.S. Constitution vests the executive power of the United States in the president and charges him with the  निष्पादन of संघीय विधि , alongside the जिम्मेदारी  of appointing federal executive , diplomatic , regulatory , and judicial officers , and concluding treaties with foreign powers , with the advice and consent of the Senate .
The president is further empowered to grant federal pardons and reprieves , and to convene and adjourn either or  दोनो घरों  of Congress under extraordinary circumstances .
Since the founding of the United States , the power of the president and the federal government have grown substantially  और प्रत्येक आधुनिक अध्यक्ष , despite possessing no  formal legislative powers beyond signing or vetoing congressionally passed bills , is largely responsible for dictating the legislative agenda of his party and the foreign and domestic policy of the United States .
The president is frequently described as the most powerful  व्यक्ति  in the world .
The president is  indirectly निर्वाचित by the लोगों through the चुनावी  College to a four-year term , and is one of only two nationally elected federal officers , the other being the Vice President of the United States .
the twenty-second amendment  , adopted in 1951 , prohibits anyone from ever being elected to the presidency for a third full term .
It also prohibits a person from being elected to the presidency more than once if that person previously  था परोसा as अध्यक्ष  , or acting president , for more than two years of another person 's term as president .
In all ,  43 individuals  have served 55 four-year terms .
On January 20 , 2009 , Barack Obama became the 44th  और वर्तमान  president .
On November 6 , 2012 , he was re-elected and  is अनुसूचित  to serve until January 20 , 2017 .
Senses are  physiological  capacities of organisms that provide data for perception .
The senses and their operation , classification , and  सिद्धान्त  are overlapping topics studied by a variety of fields , most notably neuroscience , cognitive psychology ( or cognitive science ) , and philosophy of perception .
The nervous system has a specific  संवेदी  system or organ , dedicated to each sense .
Humans have a multitude  of होश  .
Sight ( ophthalmoception ) , hearing ( audioception )  , स्वाद ( gustaoception ) , महकते ( olfacoception or olfacception  ) , and touch ( tactioception ) are the five traditionally recognized .
While the ability to detect other stimuli beyond those governed by the traditional senses exists , including temperature ( thermoception ) , kinesthetic sense ( proprioception ) , pain ( nociception ) , balance ( equilibrioception ) , acceleration ( kinesthesioception ) , and various internal stimuli ( e.g . the different chemoreceptors  लिये detecting नमक और कार्बन डाइऑक्साइड एकाग्रता in the रक्त ) , तभी a छोटी  number of these can safely be classified as separate senses in and of themselves .
What constitutes a sense is a matter of some debate , leading to  कठिनाइयों in धमक  what exactly a sense is .
Animals also have receptors to sense the world around them  , साथ डिग्री of काबिलियत varying  greatly between species .
Humans have a comparatively weak sense of smell , while some animals may lack one or more of the  परंपरागत पाँच होश  .
Some animals may also intake and interpret  संवेदी  stimuli in very different ways .
कुछ प्रजाति of पशु हैं समर्थ to भाव the संसार  in a way that humans can not , with some species able to sense electrical and magnetic fields , and detect water pressure and currents .
Spiders ( order Araneae ) are air-breathing arthropods that have  आठ  legs and chelicerae with fangs that inject venom .
They are the largest  अनुक्रम  of arachnids and rank seventh in total species diversity among all other groups of organisms .
Spiders   are found worldwide on every continent except for Antarctica , and have become established in nearly every habitat with the exception of air and sea colonization .
As of 2008 , at least 43,678 spider species , and 109 families have  महरूम अंकित by taxonomists ; however , वहीँ  has been confusion within the scientific community as to how all these families should be classified , as evidenced by the over 20 different classifications that have been proposed since 1900 .
Anatomically , spiders differ from other arthropods in that the usual body segments are fused into two tagmata , the cephalothorax and abdomen , and joined by a  small ,  cylindrical pedicel .
Unlike insects ,  मकड़ियों do  not have antennae .
In all except the most primitive group , the Mesothelae , spiders have the most centralized nervous systems of all arthropods , as all their ganglia  are fused  into one mass in the cephalothorax .
Unlike most arthropods , spiders have no extensor muscles in  उनके limbs और  instead extend them by hydraulic pressure .
Their abdomens bear appendages that have been modified into  spinnerets कि extrude रेशा इससे  up to six types of silk glands within their abdomen .
Spider webs vary widely in size , shape  और  the amount of sticky thread used .
It now appears that the spiral orb web may be one of the earliest  फ़ॉर्म , और मकड़ियों कि उपज उलझे cobwebs हैं अधिक abundant  and diverse than orb-web spiders .
Spider-like arachnids with silk-producing spigots appeared in the Devonian period about , but these animals  जाहिर  lacked spinnerets .
True spiders have been  मिला in carboniferous  rocks from , and are very similar to the most primitive surviving order , the Mesothelae .
The main  समूह of आधुनिक  spiders , Mygalomorphae and Araneomorphae , first appeared in the Triassic period , before .
A  herbivorous प्रजाति , bagheera kiplingi , थी वर्णित in 2008 , लकिन सब अन्य ज्ञात प्रजाति हैं परभक्षी , ज़्यादातर preying on कीट और on अन्य मकड़ियों , हालांकि a few विशाल प्रजाति भी लो पक्षियों और lizards .
Spiders use a wide range of strategies to capture prey : trapping it in sticky webs , lassoing it with sticky bolas , mimicking the prey to avoid  डिटेक्शन , or कार्यशील  it down .
Most detect prey mainly by sensing vibrations , but the active hunters have acute vision , and hunters of the genus Portia show signs  of प्रज्ञा in उनके चुनाव  of tactics and ability to develop new ones .
Spiders ' guts are too  सीमित to लो solids ,  and they liquidize their food by flooding it with digestive enzymes and grinding it with the bases of their pedipalps , as they do not have true jaws .
Male spiders identify  themselves by a किस्में  of complex courtship rituals to avoid being eaten by the females .
Males of most species survive a few matings , limited mainly by their short   life spans .
महिलाओं बुनते रेशा egg-cases  , each of which may contain hundreds of eggs .
Females of many species care for their young , for example by  carrying उन्हें around or by sharing  food with them .
A minority of species are social , building communal webs that may house anywhere from  a few  to 50,000 individuals .
Social behavior ranges from precarious toleration , as in the widow spiders , to  co-operative शिकार और food-sharing  .
Although most spiders live for at most two years , tarantulas and other  mygalomorph मकड़ियों  can live up to 25 years in captivity .
While the venom of a few species is dangerous to humans , scientists are now researching the use of  मकड़ी venom in आयुर्विज्ञान और as non-polluting  pesticides .
Spider silk provides a combination of lightness , strength and elasticity that is superior to that of  सिंथेटिक सामग्री , और मकड़ी  silk genes have been inserted into mammals and plants to see if these can be used as silk factories .
As a result of their wide  दायरा of व्यवहार  , spiders have become common symbols in art and mythology symbolizing various combinations of patience , cruelty and creative powers .
Grey 's Anatomy is an American television  चिकित्सा नाटक कि premiered  on the American Broadcasting Company ( ABC ) , as a mid-season replacement on March 27 , 2005 .
The series has aired nine seasons , and focuses on the fictional   lives of surgical interns and residents as they gradually evolve into seasoned doctors , while trying to maintain personal lives .
The show 's premise originated with Shonda Rhimes , who serves as an executive producer , along with Betsy Beers , Mark  गॉर्डन , क्रिस्टा vernoff , रोब मकई , चिह्नित  Wilding , and Allan Heinberg .
The series was created to be racially diverse , utilizing a  color-blind ढलाई तकनीक .
It is primarily  फिल्माया in लॉस एंजिल्स  , California .
The series ' protagonist is Dr. Meredith  Grey (  Ellen Pompeo ) , who originally is accepted into the residency program at the fictional Seattle Grace Hospital .
Meredith is  आबंटित to कार्य  under Dr. Miranda Bailey ( Chandra Wilson ) , along with Dr. Cristina Yang ( Sandra Oh ) , Dr. George O'Malley ( T. R. Knight ) , Dr. Izzie Stevens ( Katherine Heigl ) , and Dr. Alex Karev ( Justin Chambers ) .
Following O'Malley 's death and  स्टीवंस ' प्रस्थान , the  hospital 's merger with Mercy West brings in Dr. Jackson Avery ( Jesse Williams ) and Dr. April Kepner ( Sarah Drew ) , in the sixth season .
The surgical wing is primarily supervised by Dr. Richard  webber ( जेम्स pickens , jr.  ) , who is eventually replaced by Dr. Derek Shepherd ( Patrick Dempsey ) , and later Dr. Owen Hunt ( Kevin McKidd ) .
Dr. Preston Burke ( Isaiah Washington ) departs at the conclusion of the third season , and is replaced by Dr. Erica Hahn ( Brooke Smith ) , who  पत्ते the दिखाएँ दौरान the पांचवां  season , and later Dr. Teddy Altman ( Kim Raver ) , who departs at the end of the eighth season .
Introduced in the second season is Dr. Addison Montgomery ( Kate Walsh ) , who leaves the show  at the समाप्त of the  third season , in order to launch her own spin-off medical drama Private Practice .
Dr. Callie Torres ( Sara Ramirez ) and Dr. Mark Sloan ( Eric Dane ) also enter the show in the second season , while the  latter मरता  in the premiere of the ninth season .
Meredith 's half-sister , Dr.  lexie धूसर ( chyler leigh  ) , appears from season three and dies at the end of season eight .
Dr. Arizona Robbins ( Jessica Capshaw  ) is दिए श्रेणी  regular status at the beginning of the sixth season .
Grey 's Anatomy is the highest-rated drama in the key  18–49 जनसांख्यिकी  .
Previously among the overall top-ten rated shows in the United  राज्य  , Grey 's Anatomy has been well received by critics .
Considered an impact on  संस्कृति  , the series has received numerous awards , and has also been included in various critics ' top ten lists .
The show has produced several specials , as well as distributed all seasons to DVD , and released a collection  of  merchandise .
In 2012 , Grey 's  anatomy थी नामित the  fifth-highest revenue earning show , in terms of advertising per half-hour .
On May 11 , 2012 , the  श्रेणी थी नवीनीकृत  for a ninth season , which premiered on September 27 , 2012 .
Schizophrenia ( or ) is a mental disorder characterized by a breakdown of thought processes and by a deficit  of ठेठ  emotional responses .
Common symptoms include auditory hallucinations , paranoid or bizarre delusions , or disorganized speech and thinking , and it is accompanied by significant social  or occupational dysfunction  .
the onset of लक्षण typically occurs  in young adulthood , with a global lifetime prevalence of about 0.3–0.7 % .
Diagnosis is based on observed behavior and  the रोगी 's  reported experiences .
Genetics , early environment   , neurobiology , and psychological and social processes appear to be important contributory factors ; some recreational and prescription drugs appear to cause or worsen symptoms .
Current research is focused on the role of  neurobiology , हालांकि no सिंगल  isolated organic cause has been found .
The many possible combinations of symptoms have triggered debate about whether the diagnosis represents a single disorder or a number  of अलहदा syndromes  .
Despite the etymology of the term from the  यूनानी जड़ें skhizein ( σχίζειν  , `` to split '' ) and phrēn , phren- ( φρήν , φρεν- ; `` mind '' ) , schizophrenia does not imply a `` split personality '' , or `` multiple personality disorder '' ( which is known these days as dissociative identity disorder ) —a condition with which it is often confused in public perception .
Rather  , the पद  means a `` splitting of mental functions '' , because of the symptomatic presentation of the illness .
The mainstay of treatment is antipsychotic medication , which primarily  दबा dopamine  ( and sometimes serotonin ) receptor activity .
Psychotherapy and vocational and  सोशल पुनर्वास  are also important in treatment .
In more serious cases—where there is risk to self and others— involuntary hospitalization may be necessary , although hospital stays are  अभी  shorter and less frequent than they once were .
The disorder is thought mainly to  affect  cognition , but it also usually contributes to chronic problems with behavior and emotion .
People with schizophrenia are likely to  have अतिरिक्त ( comorbid ) शर्तें  , including major depression and anxiety disorders ; the lifetime occurrence of substance use disorder is almost 50 % .
Social problems , such as long-term  बेरोजगारी  , poverty , and homelessness are common .
The average life expectancy of people with the disorder is 12 to 15 years less than  those बगैर , the परिणाम of increased शारीरिक  health problems and a higher suicide rate ( about 5 % ) .
Paul Leslie Snider ( April 15 , 1951–August 14  , 1980 ) थी the estranged husband  and manager of Playboy model Dorothy Stratten , whom he murdered before killing himself the same day .
the  Epic of Gilgamesh , an epic poem from Mesopotamia , is amongst the earliest surviving works of literature .
the साहित्यिक इतिहास of gilgamesh begins साथ पाँच स्वतंत्र sumerian कविताएं परिचय 'bilgamesh ' ( sumerian लिये gilgamesh ) , किंग of uruk .
Four of these were used as  सोर्स  material for a combined epic in Akkadian .
This first combined epic , known as the `` Old  babylonian '' संस्करण , तिथियाँ to the 18th  century BC and is titled after its incipit , Shūtur eli sharrī ( `` Surpassing All Other Kings '' ) .
Only a few fragments of it  have बच  .
The later `` Standard Babylonian '' version dates from the 13th to the 10th centuries BC and bears the incipit Sha  naqba īmuru  ( `` He who Saw the Deep '' ) .
Fragments of approximately two thirds of this longer , twelve-tablet  संस्करण have  been recovered .
Some of the best copies were discovered in the library ruins of the  7th-century bc assyrian  king Ashurbanipal .
The  स्टोरी  centers on a friendship between Gilgamesh and Enkidu .
enkidu is a जंगली man निर्मित by  the gods as Gilgamesh 's equal to distract him from oppressing the people of Uruk .
Together ,  वे यात्रा to the  Cedar Mountain to defeat Humbaba , its monstrous guardian .
बाद वे मार the सांड of  Heaven , which the goddess Ishtar sends to punish Gilgamesh for spurning her advances .
As a punishment for these  क्रियाएँ , the  gods sentence Enkidu to death .
The second half of the epic focuses on Gilgamesh 's distress at Enkidu 's  मौत , और उसके क्वेस्ट लिये अमरत्व  .
In order to  सीख the  secret of eternal life , Gilgamesh undertakes a long and perilous journey .
He learns that `` The life that you are seeking you will never find   .
When the gods created man they  आवंटित to  him death , but life they retained in their own keeping . ''
This quote was originally attributed to Siduri in the Old Babylonian version of the epic , and then attributed to the immortal flood hero Utnapishtim in the Akkadian version of  the  epic .
Nevertheless , Gilgamesh 's fame lived on after his death , because of  उसके ग्रेट भवन प्रोजेक्ट , और उसके खाता of  what Utnapishtim told him happened during the flood .
The story has been translated into many different languages , and  gilgamesh रै चूंकि become  adapted in works of popular fiction .
A eukaryote ( or )  is an सजीव जिनकी कोशिकाएं  contain complex structures enclosed within membranes .
eukaryotes  may more formally be referred to as the taxon Eukarya or Eukaryota .
The defining membrane-bound structure that sets eukaryotic cells apart from prokaryotic cells is the nucleus , or nuclear  लिफाफा , भीतर  which the genetic material is carried .
The presence of a nucleus gives eukaryotes their name , which  आता इससे the यूनानी (  eu , `` good '' ) and ( karyon , `` nut '' or `` kernel '' ) .
Most eukaryotic cells also contain other membrane-bound  organelles ऐसे as mitochondria  , chloroplasts and the Golgi apparatus .
All large complex organisms are eukaryotes  , सहित पशु ,  plants and fungi .
The group also includes many unicellular  जीवों  .
Cell division in eukaryotes is  अलग इससे कि  in organisms without a nucleus ( Prokaryote ) .
It involves separating the duplicated  गुणसूत्रों , through आंदोलनों  directed by microtubules .
There are two types of  प्रभाग  processes .
In mitosis ,  एक कोशिका divides to उपज  two genetically identical cells .
In meiosis , which is required in sexual reproduction , one diploid cell ( having two instances of each chromosome , one from each  जनक ) undergoes recombination of प्रत्येक जोड़ी  of parental chromosomes , and then two stages of cell division , resulting in four haploid cells ( gametes ) .
Each gamete has just one complement of chromosomes , each a unique mix of  the सम्बन्धित  pair of parental chromosomes .
Eukaryota  appears to  be monophyletic , and so makes up one of the three domains of life .
The two  अन्य डोमेन , जीवाणु और  Archaea , are prokaryotes and have none of the above features .
Eukaryotes represent  a छोटा अल्पसंख्यक of सब  living things ; even in a human body there are 10 times more microbes than human cells .
However , due to their much larger size their collective worldwide biomass is  अनुमानित at परिचय बराबर to कि of prokaryotes  .
They are considered to have first developed approximately  1.6–2.1  billion years ago .
The use of  अंतरजाल सेवाएं or तन्त्र  with Internet access to defraud victims or to otherwise take advantage of them , for example by stealing personal information , which can even lead to identity theft .
A very common  रूप of अंतरजाल  fraud is the distribution of rogue security software .
Internet services can be used to present fraudulent solicitations to prospective victims , to conduct fraudulent transactions , or to transmit the proceeds of fraud to financial  संस्थानों or to अन्य कनेक्ट  with the scheme .
अंतरजाल धोखाधड़ी can occur  in chat rooms , email , message boards , or on websites .
The International Security Assistance Force ( ISAF ) is a NATO -led security mission in Afghanistan that was established by the United Nations Security Council in  दिसम्बर 2001  by Resolution 1386 , as envisaged by the Bonn Agreement .
Its main purpose is to train the Afghan National Security Forces ( ANSF ) and assist Afghanistan in rebuilding key  सरकारी संस्थानों  but is also engaged in the 2001-present war with insurgent groups .
ISAF was initially charged with securing  काबुल और surrounding क्षेत्रों इससे the तालिबान , al  Qaeda and factional warlords , so as to allow for the establishment of the Afghan Transitional Administration headed by Hamid Karzai .
In October 2003 , the UN Security Council authorized the expansion of the ISAF mission throughout Afghanistan , and ISAF subsequently expanded the  मिशन in चार प्रमुख चरण over the  whole of the country .
From 2006 to 2011 , ISAF had been involved in increasingly  more  intensive combat operations in southern and eastern Afghanistan .
Troop contributors include from the United States ,  संयुक्त किंगडम , नाटो  member states and a number of other countries .
The intensity of the combat faced by contributing nations varies greatly , with the United States , United Kingdom , and Canada sustaining the majority of  हताहत in intensive कॉम्बैट परिचालन  , with other contributors sustaining significantly less .
As of early 2010 , there were at least 700 military bases inside Afghanistan but more  यहूद अपेक्षित  to be built in the coming years .
About 400 of these were used by  american‐led  NATO forces and 300 by ANSF .
Cocaine (  benzoylmethylecgonine ) ( इन  ) is a crystalline tropane alkaloid that is obtained from the leaves of the coca plant .
The name comes from `` coca '' and the alkaloid suffix  -ine , forming कोका  .
It is a stimulant , an appetite  suppressant  , and a topical anesthetic .
Biologically , cocaine  अधिनियमों as a serotonin–norepinephrine–dopamine reuptake  inhibitor , also known as a triple reuptake inhibitor ( TRI ) .
It is  addictive  because of its effect on the mesolimbic reward pathway .
Unlike most  अणुओं , कोका रै pockets  with both high hydrophilic and lipophilic efficiency , violating the rule of hydrophilic-lipophilic balance .
This causes it to  क्रॉस the blood–brain  barrier far better than other psychoactive chemicals and may even induce blood-brain barrier breakdown .
It is illegal to possess , produce , or distribute cocaine for non-medicinal and  non-government-sanctioned  purposes in almost every country .
Whole beef tri-tip rump , roasted medium  विरल
The tri-tip is a cut of beef from the bottom  sirloin primal  cut .
It is a small triangular muscle , usually 1.5 to 2.5 lbs . ( 675 to  1,150g  ) per side of beef .
The scientific name of this muscle is tensor fasciae latae , inserted in the fascia lata , the connective tissue covering the quadriceps femoris , also called quadriceps extensor , a group of  चार मांसपेशियां जिससे in फेरे प्रविष्ट in the  patella , or knee cap of the animal .
Willmar is a city in , and the county seat of , Kandiyohi County , Minnesota ,  संयुक्त राज्य  .
The population was  19,610  at the 2010 census .
Willmar has been assigned ZIP code 56201 by  the संयुक्त  States Postal Service .
U.S . Routes 12 and 71 and Minnesota State Highways 23 and 40 are  चार of the प्रमुख रूट in the  city .
The Speaker of the  संयुक्त राज्य  House of Representatives ( or Speaker of the House ) is the presiding officer of the chamber .
The office was  स्थापित in 1789 by  Article I , Section 2 of the United States Constitution , which states in part , `` The House of Representatives shall chuse their Speaker ... ''
The current Speaker is John Boehner ,  a रिपब्लिकन जो represents  Ohio 's 8th congressional district .
The Constitution does not require that the Speaker be a Member of Congress  , लकिन no non-member रै कभी महरूम  elected to the office .
The Speaker is second in  the United  States presidential line of succession , after the Vice President and ahead of the President pro tempore of the U.S. Senate .
Unlike  कुछ वेस्टमिंस्टर  system parliaments , in which the office of Speaker is considered non-partisan , in the United States the Speaker of the House is a leadership position and the office-holder actively works to set the majority party 's legislative agenda .
The Speaker usually does not personally preside over  debates , बजाय delegating  the duty to members of the House from the majority party .
Aside from duties relating to heading the House and the majority political party , the Speaker also performs administrative and  प्रक्रियात्मक कृत्यों , और represents उसके  or her Congressional district .
A bicycle frame  is the प्रमुख घटक  of a bicycle , on to which wheels and other components are fitted .
The  आधुनिक और सबसे आम फ़्रेम डिज़ाइन  for an upright bicycle is based on the safety bicycle , and consists of two triangles , a main triangle and a paired rear triangle .
This is  ज्ञात  as the diamond frame .
Frames are required to be strong , stiff and light , which  वे do  by combining different materials and shapes .
`` Simple gravity  लोलक '' मॉडल  assumes no friction or air resistance .
An exemplar animation of a  लोलक प्रर्दशित the गति  and acceleration vectors
A pendulum is a weight  निलंबित इससे a so कि it can झूले  freely .
When a   pendulum is displaced sideways from its resting equilibrium position , it is subject to a restoring force due to gravity that will accelerate it back toward the equilibrium position .
When released , the  restoring  force combined with the pendulum 's mass causes it to oscillate about the equilibrium position , swinging back and forth .
The time for one  पूरा  cycle , a left swing and a right swing , is called the period .
A pendulum swings with a specific period  जिससे depends (  mainly ) on its length .
From its discovery  around  1602 by Galileo Galilei the regular motion of pendulums was used for timekeeping , and was the world 's most accurate timekeeping technology until the 1930s .
Pendulums are  प्रयुक्त to विनियमित  pendulum clocks , and are used in scientific instruments such as accelerometers and seismometers .
Historically they were used as gravimeters to measure the  त्वरण of गम्भीरता  in geophysical surveys , and even as a standard of length .
The word 'pendulum ' is new Latin , from the Latin  pendulus , अर्थ 'टहलतेg  ' .
The simple gravity pendulum is an  idealized गणितीय मॉडल  of a pendulum .
This is a weight  ( or bob ) on the समाप्त  of a massless cord suspended from a , without friction .
When given an initial push , it will swing  वापस और forth at  a constant amplitude .
Real pendulums are subject to friction and air drag , so the amplitude of  उनके swings  declines .
The First Battle of Bull Run , also known as First  manassas ( the नाम  used by Confederate forces ) , was fought on July 21 , 1861 , in Prince William County , Virginia , near the city of Manassas .
It was the first major  जमीन बैटल  of the American Civil War .
Just months after the start  of the युद्ध  at Fort Sumter , the Northern public clamored for a march against the Confederate capital of Richmond , Virginia , which they expected to bring an early end to the rebellion .
Yielding to political pressure , Brig . Gen. Irvin McDowell led his unseasoned Union Army across Bull Run against the equally inexperienced  Confederate Army of  Brig . Gen. P. G. T. Beauregard camped near Manassas Junction .
McDowell 's ambitious plan for a surprise flank attack on the Confederate left was poorly executed by his  अधिकारियों और मेन ; nevertheless , the confederates ,  who had been planning to attack the Union left flank , found themselves at an initial disadvantage .
Confederate reinforcements under Brig . Gen. Joseph E.  johnston arrived इससे the  Shenandoah Valley by railroad and the course of the battle quickly changed .
A brigade of Virginians under a relatively unknown colonel from   the Virginia Military Institute , Thomas J. Jackson , stood their ground and Jackson received his famous nickname , `` Stonewall Jackson '' .
The Confederates then launched a  दमदार counterattack , और  as the Union troops began withdrawing under fire , many panicked and it turned into a rout as McDowell 's men frantically ran without order in the direction of Washington , D.C .
Both armies were sobered by the fierce fighting and   many casualties , and realized the war was going to be much longer and bloodier than either had anticipated .
Thunderstorm  निकट  Garajau , Madeira
मौसम is the राज्य of the माहौल , to the उपाधि कि it is hot or ठंडा , गीला or शुष्क , शांत or stormy , साफ or cloudy .
Most weather phenomena  occur in the क्षोभमण्डल  , just below the stratosphere .
Weather generally refers to day-to-day temperature and precipitation activity , whereas climate is the term for the average  वायुमंडलीय शर्तें over longer अवधि  of time .
When used without qualification , `` weather  ''  is understood to be the weather of Earth .
Weather is driven by air pressure ( temperature and moisture )  मतभेद between एक प्लेस और another  .
These  दबाव और तापमान मतभेद can  occur due to the sun angle at any particular spot , which varies by latitude from the tropics .
The strong temperature  कंट्रास्ट  between polar and tropical air gives rise to the jet stream .
Weather systems in the mid-latitudes , such as extratropical  cyclones , हैं  caused by instabilities of the jet stream flow .
Because the Earth 's axis is tilted relative to its orbital plane , sunlight is incident at  different  angles at different times of the year .
On Earth 's surface , temperatures usually range ±40 °C ( −40 °F to  100 °f ) annually  .
Over thousands of years , changes in Earth 's orbit affect the amount and distribution of  सौर उर्जा प्राप्त  by the Earth and influence long-term climate and global climate change .
Surface  तापमान मतभेद  in turn cause pressure differences .
Higher altitudes are cooler than lower altitudes due to  मतभेद in compressional  heating .
मौसम forecasting is  the application of science and technology to predict the state of the atmosphere for a future time and a given location .
The atmosphere is a chaotic system  , so छोटी परिवर्तन to  one part of the system can grow to have large effects on the system as a whole .
Human attempts to control the weather have occurred throughout human history , and there is evidence that human activity such as  कृषि और उद्योग रै inadvertently परिवर्धित मौसम  patterns .
Studying how the weather works on other planets  रै महरूम सहायक  in understanding how weather works on Earth .
A famous landmark in  the सौर प्रणाली , बृहस्पति 's ग्रेट रेड स्पॉट  , is an anticyclonic storm known to have existed for at least 300 years .
However , weather is not limited to  ग्रहीय लाशें  .
A star 's corona is constantly  होने खोया to  space , creating what is essentially a very thin atmosphere throughout the Solar System .
the गति of  mass ejected from the Sun is known as the solar wind .
Katy Perry is an American  singer-songwriter  from Santa Barbara , California .
She signed with  कैपिटल  Records .
Perry has released three studio albums , including her debut  ईसाई प्रयत्न कैटी  Hudson , One of the Boys , and Teenage Dream .
Perry 's mainstream career was  kicked बंद  with the massive chart success of her debut single `` I Kissed a Girl `` .
During her career , Perry has been nominated for numerous major  म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार , primarily  for Teenage Dream and One of the Boys .
The following is a list of  sovereign राज्य और territories  where English is an official language or language of government .
In 2012 , there were  88 राज्य  in total ( 60 sovereign states and 28 non-sovereign states ) .
In many countries English is the dominant language , but does not  have आधिकारिक औकात .
In Australia , English is spoken by the vast majority of the population and is the only language used in government   institutions , but Australia does not have an official language .
The case is the same in the United Kingdom and the United States , though many states and regions within the U.S.  do have  English as an official language .
English is the dominant language of New Zealand and an official language of Canada ( along with French ) , India ( along with Hindi and several other languages ) , Ireland ( along with Irish ) , and the  Philippines (  along with Tagalog ) .
अंग्रेज़ी is  the sole official language of the Commonwealth of Nations and the Commonwealth Games .
English is one of the official  भाषाएं of the संयुक्त  Nations , the European Union and the International Olympic Committee .
अनेक of ये देशों हैं  current or former colonies or dependencies of the United Kingdom ( see also British Empire ) , or of the United States , itself a former colony of the UK .
Notable exceptions include Rwanda , which was a former Belgian colony and Eritrea , which was an Italian colony where the British  साम्राज्य spanned इसके कंट्रोल तभी in संसार युद्ध ii और shortly  after ( 1941-1952 ) .
इण्डिया  's linguistic picture is complex .
According to the Constitution  of इण्डिया , `` हिंदी in the देवनागरी स्क्रिप्ट '' is the आधिकारिक भाषा of the संघ ; और अंग्रेज़ी the 'subsidiary आधिकारिक भाषा ' ; however  , English is mandated for the authoritative texts of all federal laws and Supreme Court decisions and ( along with Hindi ) is one of the two languages of the Indian Parliament .
English is used almost exclusively for higher  शिक्षा , कारोबार  and science .
Courses in majority of the schools  हैं सिखाया  exclusively in English .
English  is extensively  used for administrative purposes in India .
India is the second-largest English-speaking country in the world by number of  अध्यक्षों , बाद the संयुक्त  States .
As such ,  अनेक consider  English to be the de facto official language of India .
See  आधिकारिक  languages of India .
The linguistic  मेकअप of पाकिस्तानी  is similarly complex .
While the national language is Urdu , English is an official language and  प्रयुक्त in कारोबार ,  government and law .
English is a compulsory language in  स्कूलों  .
All  स्कूल पाठ्यक्रम  are taught in English .
Pakistan is the 9th  largest english-speaking  country in the world by population .
Southern Cone ( , ) is a geographic region composed  of the southernmost  areas of South America , south of the Tropic of Capricorn .
Although geographically this  शामिल दक्षिणी और भाग of  Southeast ( São Paulo ) of Brazil , in terms of political geography the Southern cone has traditionally comprised Argentina , Chile , Paraguay , and Uruguay .
In the narrowest sense , it only covers Argentina , Chile and Uruguay , bounded on the north by the states of Brazil , Paraguay , Bolivia and Peru , on the west by the Pacific Ocean , and south to the junction between the Pacific and Atlantic Oceans , which  it  is the closest continental area of Antarctica ( 1000 km ) .
High life expectancy , the highest Human Development Index of Latin America , high Standard of living , significant participation in the global markets and the emerging economy of its members make the  दक्षिणी कोन the सबसे prosperous macro-region  in South America .
For  multi-event  athletic competitions see Track and Field Competitions , section `` Meetings '' .
Meetings are sometimes held around conference tables  .
In a meeting , two or more people come  साथ to discuss एक or अधिक  topics , often in a formal setting .
An official game in baseball , also sometimes called a regulation game ,  is a खेल  that has progressed beyond the point at which it can be considered complete if necessary .
This is approximately the  halfway पाइंट of  the game .
In the case of inclement weather , any game which has reached this point may be stopped and shortened as needed , with the result being final , and all   records and statistics counted .
A game which has not reached this point before being stopped is either considered a  निलंबित खेल ( to be जारी at a बाद तिथि  from the point of stoppage ) , or is simply canceled and replayed from the start .
(  इस depends on  the rules of each individual league . )
In  either मामला , no आंकडे  are counted until the game becomes official .
Since most professional  बेसबॉल खेल  are nine innings long , the fifth inning is used as the threshold for an official game .
If the visiting team is  अग्रणी  , or the game is tied , the end of the fifth inning marks this point .
If the home team ( which bats last ) is already ahead in the  स्कोर ,  and theoretically would not need its half of the fifth inning , then 41⁄2 innings ( i.e. , the middle of the fifth ) is considered an official game .
The game  is  also considered official if the home team scores to take the lead in the bottom of the fifth inning , since the game would end immediately if the same thing happened in the ninth .
In nearly all cases , the `` official game '' status is used to determine whether a rain check will be  सम्मानित लिये प्रशंसक पकड़कर  tickets .
If  a खेल is प्रारंभ लकिन  does not reach the point of becoming official , fans are entitled to a new ticket for the make-up game or ( in most cases ) any other available game of their choice .
If a game is halted after it becomes official  , the खेल is  simply shortened and no rain check is given .
The `` official game '' statistic received some attention during the 1995  ऋतु , जब कैलोरी ripken  , Jr. was approaching the record for consecutive games played , previously held by Lou Gehrig .
Large numbers were hung on the side of the B & O Warehouse at Oriole Park at Camden Yards to show the  क्रमांक of खेल in  Ripken 's streak .
Each day , a new number was unfurled during the fifth inning after each game had become official ( since the statistic would not have counted if the game had been stopped before  कि पाइंट )  .
A similar practice has been used to count down toward the demolition of several stadiums ( including Veterans Stadium in Philadelphia in 2003 , Busch Memorial Stadium in St.  लुई in 2005 , और the असली यांकी स्टेडियम और shea स्टेडियम in नई यॉर्क नगर in  2008 ) ; as each game became official , the team would unveil a new ( lower ) number showing the number of games left to be played in the stadium .
A telephone number or phone number is a sequence  of अंक प्रयुक्त to कॉल  from one telephone line to another in a public switched telephone network .
When telephone numbers were invented  , वे यहूद छोटी  — as few as one , two or three digits — and were given orally to a switchboard operator .
As phone systems  have grown और interconnected  to encompass the world , telephone numbers have become longer .
In addition to  telephones  , they now access other devices , such as computers and fax machines .
The number contains the information necessary to  पहचानो uniquely  the intended endpoint for the telephone call .
Each such endpoint must have a  अद्वितीय क्रमांक भीतर  the public switched telephone network .
Most countries use fixed  लंबाई संख्याएँ  ( for normal lines at least ) and therefore the number of endpoints determines the necessary length of the telephone number .
It is also possible for each subscriber to have a set of shorter numbers  लिये  the endpoints most often used .
These `` shorthand '' or `` speed calling '' numbers are  automatically अनूदित to अद्वितीय  telephone numbers before the call can be connected .
Some special services have their own short numbers ( e.g. , 1-1-9 , 9-1-1 , 0-0-0 , 9-9-9 , 1-1-1 , and 1-1-2 being the Emergency Services numbers for China , Japan , South Korea , Taiwan and Sri Lanka ; Canada and the United States ; Australia ; the United Kingdom , Ireland , South Africa , Poland , Saudi Arabia , the United Arab Emirates , Morocco , Macao , Bahrain , Qatar , Bangladesh ,  बोत्सवाना  , Ghana , Kenya , Hong Kong , Malaysia , Mauritius , Singapore , Zimbabwe , Trinidad , Tobago ; New Zealand ; Kuwait and the European Union , respectively . )
Many systems also allow  काल्स  within a local area to be made without dialing the local area code .
For example , a phone number in North America will start with three numbers ( such as  661 ) , जिससे is the क्षेत्रफल कोड , followed by सात अंक  split into sections of three and four ( such as 550-1212 ) , which is the local number .
Some  क्षेत्रों अभी have अनिवार्य ten-digit डायलिंग in प्लेस , भी लिये लोकल काल्स .
Most telephone networks today ( exceptions being private intercom and secure phone networks ) are interconnected in the international telephone network , where the format of telephone numbers is  मानकीकृत by itu-t in the अनुशंसा  E.164 .
This specifies that the entire number should be 15 digits or shorter , and  शुरू साथ a देश  prefix .
For most countries , this is followed by an area code or city code and the subscriber number , which might consist of  the कोड लिये a  particular telephone exchange .
ITU-T recommendation E.123 describes how to represent an international telephone number in writing or print ,  starting साथ a प्लस चिह्न  ( `` + '' ) and the country code .
When calling an  अंतरराष्ट्रीय क्रमांक इससे a फिक्स्ड लकीर  phone , the + must be replaced with the international call prefix chosen by the country the call is being made from .
Some mobile phones allow the + to be  डाला सीधे  .
The  स्वरूप और आवंटन of लोकल फोन संख्याएँ हैं नियंत्रित by प्रत्येक स्वदेश 's संबंधित सरकारी , either सीधे or by प्रायोजित संगठन ( ऐसे as nanpa overseen by neustar inc. ) .
Before a telephone call is connected , the telephone number must be  dialed by  the calling party or Caller .
The called party might have equipment that presents caller ID before the  कॉल is  answered .
A collection agency is a business that pursues payments of debts owed  by  individuals or businesses .
Most  संग्रहण एजेंसियों operate as  agents of creditors and collect debts for a fee or percentage of the total amount owed .
There are many types of  संग्रहण  agencies .
First-party agencies are oftentimes subsidiaries of the  असली  company the debt is owed to .
third-party एजेंसियों  are separate companies contracted by a company to collect debts on their behalf for a fee .
Debt buyers purchase the debt at a percentage of its value ,  तब attempt  to collect it .
Each country  रै इसके अपना  rules and regulations regarding them .
कैनबिस  flower with visible trichomes
कैनबिस , भी ज्ञात as मारिजुआना  ( from the Mexican Spanish marihuana ) , and by other names , is a preparation of the Cannabis plant intended for use as a psychoactive drug and as medicine .
Pharmacologically , the  प्रिंसिपल psychoactive constituent of कैनबिस  is tetrahydrocannabinol ( THC ) ; it is one of 483 known compounds in the plant , including at least 84 other cannabinoids , such as cannabidiol ( CBD ) , cannabinol ( CBN ) , tetrahydrocannabivarin ( THCV ) .
and  cannabigerol ( cbg )  .
This is a list of American football quarterbacks who have started for the Washington  redskins , as खूब as इसके पूर्ववर्तियों  the Boston Braves ( 1932 ) and Boston Redskins ( 1933 – 1936 ) , in the National Football League ( NFL ) .
The Washington Redskins franchise was originally founded in Boston , Massachusetts as the Boston Braves , named after the  लोकल बेसबॉल  franchise .
The name was  बदला  the following year to the Redskins .
In 1937 , the  मताधिकार स्थानांतरित  to Washington , D.C .
Of the 49 Redskins starting quarterbacks , two have been inducted into the Pro Football Hall of  कीर्ति : सैमी baugh और सन्नी jurgensen  .
Robert  griffin iii 2012-present
Jason  कैम्पबेल 2005-2009
Mark Burnell  2004-2007
Mark Rypien  1986-1993
जो theismann  1974-1985
Sammy Baugh  1937-1952
1st Special Forces Operational Detachment-Delta ( 1st SFOD-D ) , popularly known as Delta Force ,  is एक  of the United States ' four secretive tier-one counter-terrorism and Special Mission Units .
It was formerly listed as  the कॉम्बैट  Applications Group by the Department of Defense but has since been officially re-designated the Army Compartmented Elements ( ACE ) .
While  1st sfod-d  is administratively supported by USASOC , it falls under the operational control of the Joint Special Operations Command .
Delta Force and its Navy counterpart , the Naval Special Warfare  विकास समूह , हैं the संयुक्त राज्य  military 's primary counter-terrorism units .
Delta Force 's primary tasks are counter-terrorism , direct action , and national intervention operations , although it is  an अत्यधिक  versatile group capable of conducting many types of covert missions , including , but not limited to , hostage rescues and raids .
The Central Intelligence Agency 's highly secretive Special  क्रियाएँ प्रभाग ( उदास ) और अधिक specifically  its elite Special Operations Group ( SOG ) often works with – and recruits – operators from Delta Force .
Alpha decay is  एक उदाहरण प्रकार of  radioactive decay , in which an atomic nucleus emits an alpha particle , and thereby transforms ( or 'decays ' ) into an atom with a mass number 4 less and atomic number 2 less .
Many other types of decays are  संभावित .
Radioactive decay , also known as  नाभिकीय क्षय or radioactivity  , is the process by which a nucleus of an unstable atom loses energy by emitting particles of ionizing radiation .
A material that  अनायास emits इस दयालु of विकिरण — जिससे शामिल  the emission of energetic alpha particles , beta particles , and gamma rays — is considered radioactive .
There are many different types  of रेडियोसक्रिय  decay ( see table below ) .
A decay , or loss of energy , results when an atom with one type of nucleus , called the parent   radionuclide , transforms to an atom with a nucleus in a different state , or to a different nucleus containing different numbers of protons and neutrons .
Either of these  उत्पाद is नामित  the daughter nuclide .
In some  decays the जनक और बेटी हैं  different chemical elements , and thus the decay process results in nuclear transmutation ( creation of an atom of a new element ) .
The first decay processes  to be खोजा  were alpha decay , beta decay , and gamma decay .
Alpha decay occurs when the nucleus ejects  an अल्फा कण  ( helium nucleus ) .
This  is the सबसे आम प्रक्रम of emitting  nucleons , but in rarer types of decays , nuclei can eject protons , or specific nuclei of other elements ( in the process called cluster decay ) .
Beta decay occurs when  the केंद्रक emits an इलेक्ट्रॉन or positron  and a type of neutrino , in a process that changes a proton to a neutron or the other way around .
The nucleus may capture an orbiting electron ,   converting a proton into a neutron ( electron capture ) .
All of these  प्रक्रियाओं  result in nuclear transmutation .
By  कंट्रास्ट  , there exist radioactive decay processes that do not result in transmutation .
The energy of an excited nucleus may be emitted as a gamma ray in gamma decay , or used to eject an orbital electron by interaction with  the  excited nucleus in a process called internal conversion .
Radioisotopes occasionally emit  neutrons , और इस  results in a change in an element from one isotope to another .
One type of radioactive decay results in products which are not  पारिभाषित , लकिन appear in a दायरा of  `` pieces '' of the original nucleus .
इस क्षय is पुकारा spontaneous परिवर्द्धन .
This decay happens when a large  अस्थिर केंद्रक अनायास splits  into two ( and occasionally three ) smaller daughter nuclei , and usually emits gamma rays , neutrons , or other particles as a consequence .
Radioactive decay is a stochastic ( i.e. , random ) process at the level of single atoms , in that ,  according  to quantum theory , it is impossible to predict when a particular atom will decay .
However , the chance that  a दिए अणु होगा क्षय  is constant over time .
For a large number  of atoms ,  the decay rate for the collection is computable from the measured decay constants of the nuclides ( or equivalently from the half-lifes ) .
Waxing is a form of  semi-permanent बाल हटाना  which removes the hair from the root .
New hair will not grow back in  the previously waxed  area for two to eight weeks , although some people will start to see regrowth in only a week .
Almost any area of the body can be waxed , including eyebrows , face , bikini area  , टाँगे , बाहें ,  back , abdomen and feet .
There  हैं अनेक प्रकार  of waxing suitable for removing unwanted hair .
Strip waxing is  संपन्नता by spreading  a wax thinly over the skin .
A cloth or paper strip is  तब  pressed on the top and ripped off the direction of hair growth .
This removes the wax along  साथ the बाल  .
Strip wax can also be made at home using lemon juice ,  जल , शुगर और मधु  .
Hot waxing utilizes Hot wax ( as  opposed  to strip wax ) .
In this case , the wax is applied somewhat  thickly और साथ no cloth  or paper strips .
The wax  तब hardens  when it cools , thus allowing the easy removal by a therapist without the aid of cloths .
This   waxing method is very beneficial to people who have sensitive skin .
Wall painting ( 1st century AD ) from Pompeii depicting a  multigenerational भोज
Ancient Roman culture  existed throughout  the almost 1200-year history of the civilization of Ancient Rome .
The term refers to the culture of the Roman Republic , later the Roman Empire , which , at its peak , covered an  क्षेत्रफल इससे lowland स्कॉटलैंड और मोरक्को to  the Euphrates .
Life in ancient Rome revolved around the city of Rome , its famed seven hills , and its monumental structures such as the   Flavian Amphitheatre ( now called the Colosseum ) , the Forum of Trajan , and the Pantheon .
The city also had  अनेक थिएटर  , gymnasiums , and many taverns , baths , and brothels .
Throughout the territory under ancient Rome 's control , residential architecture ranged from very modest houses to country villas , and in the capital  नगर of रोम , वहीँ यहूद इम्पीरियल निवास on the सुरुचिपूर्ण  Palatine Hill , from which the word palace is derived .
The vast majority of the population lived in the city center ,  packed into insulae  ( apartment blocks ) .
The city of Rome was the largest megalopolis of that  समय , साथ a जनसांख्यिकी कि  may well have exceeded one million people , with a high end estimate of 3.6 million and a low end estimate of 450,000 .
Historical estimates indicate that around 30 percent of the population under the city 's jurisdiction lived in innumerable urban centers , with population of at least   10,000 and several military settlements , a very high rate of urbanization by pre-industrial standards .
the सबसे urbanized भाग  of the Empire was Italy , which had an estimated rate of urbanization of 32 % , the same rate of urbanization of England in 1800 .
Most Roman towns and cities had a forum , temples and the same type of buildings , on a smaller scale , as  मिला in  Rome .
The large urban population required an endless supply of food which was a complex logistical task , including acquiring , transporting , storing and distribution of food for Rome and other  शहरी  centers .
Italian farms  supplied सब्जियां और  fruits , but fish and meat were luxuries .
Aqueducts were built to bring  जल to शहरी centers और  wine and oil were imported from Hispania , Gaul and Africa .
There was a very large amount of commerce between the provinces of the  रोमन साम्राज्य , चूंकि  its transportation technology was very efficient .
The average costs  of हस्तांतरण  and the technology were comparable with 18th-century Europe .
The later city of Rome did not fill the space within its ancient Aurelian walls until  बाद 1870 .
Eighty percent of the population under the jurisdiction of ancient Rome lived in the  countryside in settlements  with less than 10 thousand inhabitants .
Landlords generally resided  in शहरों  and their estates were left in the care of farm managers .
The plight of rural slaves was generally worse than their counterparts  working in शहरी वैभवशाली households  .
To stimulate a higher  मजदूर उत्पादकता सबसे जमींदार  freed a large number of slaves and many received wages .
Some records indicate that `` as many as 42 people lived in one  छोटी फार्म हट in मिश्र , जबकि  six families owned a single olive tree . '' .
Such a rural environment continued  to induce  migration of population to urban centers until the early 2nd century , when the urban population stopped growing and started to decline .
Starting  in the मध्य of the 2nd सदी  BC , private Greek culture was increasingly in ascendancy , in spite of tirades against the `` softening '' effects of Hellenized culture from the conservative moralists .
By the time of Augustus , cultured Greek household slaves taught the Roman young (  sometimes  even the girls ) ; chefs , decorators , secretaries , doctors , and hairdressers—all came from the Greek East .
Greek sculptures adorned Hellenistic landscape  बागवानी on the palatine or in  the villas , or were imitated in Roman sculpture yards by Greek slaves .
The Roman cuisine  preserved in the  cookery books ascribed to Apicius is essentially Greek .
Roman writers disdained Latin for a  संस्कारी  Greek style .
Only in law and governance was the Italic nature of  रोम 's accretive  culture supreme .
Against this human background , both the urban  और ग्रामीण सेटिंग , एक of इतिहास  's most influential civilizations took shape , leaving behind a cultural legacy that survives in part today .
James Joseph `` Duffy '' Waldorf , Jr. ( born August 20  , 1962 ) is an  American professional golfer .
Glass bottles ( for  खीरा स्लाइस  ) on shipping pallets
A Soviet  मेयोनेज़  jar
A modern `` French Kilner  ''  jar
Glass production involves two  प्रमुख विधि – the फ्लैश  glass process , which produces sheet glass , and glassblowing which produces bottles and other containers .
A season is a subdivision of the year , marked by changes in weather , ecology , and hours of  daylight  .
Seasons result from the yearly revolution  of the  Earth around the Sun and the tilt of the Earth 's axis relative to the plane of revolution .
In temperate and polar regions , the seasons are  चिह्नित by परिवर्तन in the तीव्रता of धूप कि पहुँच  the Earth 's surface , variations of which may cause animals to go into hibernation or to migrate , and plants to be dormant .
During May , June and July , the northern  गोलार्ध is  exposed to more direct sunlight because the hemisphere faces the sun .
The same is true of the southern  गोलार्ध in नवम्बर , दिसम्बर  and January .
it is the झुकाव of the धरती कि कल्याणकारी the सूर्य to be उच्चतर in the आसमान दौरान the गर्मियाँ महीने जिससे increases the सौर फ्लक्स  .
However , due to seasonal lag , June , July and August are the hottest months in the northern hemisphere  और दिसम्बर , जनवरी और फ़रवरी हैं  the hottest months in the southern hemisphere .
In temperate and subpolar regions , generally four calendar -based seasons ( with their adjectives ) are  पहचाना : वसन्त ( vernal ) , गर्मियाँ  ( estival ) , autumn ( autumnal ) and winter ( hibernal ) .
However , ecologists mostly use a six season model for temperate  climate  regions that includes pre-spring ( prevernal ) and late summer ( serotinal ) as distinct seasons along with the traditional four .
Hot regions have two or three seasons ; the rainy ( or wet , or monsoon )  ऋतु और the शुष्क ऋतु  , and in some tropical areas , a cool or mild season .
In some parts of the world  , खास `` सीज़न ''  are loosely defined based on important events such as a hurricane season , tornado season or a wildfire season .
The six  ecological  seasons
The four  पंचांग  seasons , depicted in an ancient Roman mosaic from Tunisia
The Battle of Fort Sumter ( April 12–14  , 1861 ) थी the बमबारी और आत्मसमर्पण of फोर्ट sumter  , near Charleston , South Carolina , that started the American Civil War .
Following   declarations of secession by seven Southern states , South Carolina demanded that the U.S. Army abandon its facilities in Charleston Harbor .
On December 26 ,  1860 , u.S. प्रमुख रॉबर्ट एंडरसन  surreptitiously moved his small command from the indefensible Fort Moultrie on Sullivan 's Island to Fort Sumter , a substantial fortress controlling the entrance of Charleston Harbor .
An attempt by U.S. President James Buchanan to reinforce and resupply Anderson , using the unarmed merchant ship Star of the West , failed when it was fired upon by shore batteries  on जनवरी  9 , 1861 .
South Carolina authorities then seized  सब संघीय  property in the Charleston area , except for Fort Sumter .
During the early months of 1861 , the situation around  फोर्ट  Sumter increasingly began to resemble a siege .
In March , Brig . Gen. P. G. T. Beauregard ,  the पहला  general officer of the newly formed Confederate States of America , was placed in command of Confederate forces in Charleston .
beauregard energetically निर्देशित the  strengthening of batteries around Charleston harbor aimed at Fort Sumter .
Conditions in the fort grew dire as the Union soldiers rushed to complete the installation of   additional guns .
एंडरसन थी छोटी  of men , food , and supplies .
The resupply of Fort Sumter became the first crisis of the administration of  अध्यक्ष अब्राहम lincoln  .
He notified the Governor of South Carolina , Francis W. Pickens , that he was sending supply  जहाजों , जिससे resulted  in an ultimatum from the Confederate government : evacuate Fort Sumter immediately .
प्रमुख  Anderson refused to surrender .
Beginning  at 4:30  a.m. on April 12 , the Confederates bombarded the fort from artillery batteries surrounding the harbor .
Although the  संघ गैरीसन लौटे आग , वे यहूद  significantly outgunned and , after 34 hours , Major Anderson agreed to evacuate .
There was no loss of life on either side as a direct result of this engagement , although a gun explosion during the  आत्मसमर्पण ceremonies on अप्रैल 14 caused दो  Union deaths .
Following  the बैटल , वहीँ थी फैली  support from both North and South for further military action .
Lincoln 's immediate call for 75,000 volunteers to suppress the rebellion resulted in an  अतिरिक्त चार  southern slave states also declaring their secession and joining the Confederacy .
The Civil War  था begun  .
3G ,  छोटी लिये तीसरा पीढी  , is the third generation of mobile telecommunications technology .
3G telecommunication networks support services that provide an information transfer  रेट of at तनिक  200 kbit/s .
However , many services advertised as 3G provide higher speed than the minimum technical  आवश्यकताएँ लिये  a 3G service .
Recent 3G releases , often denoted 3.5G and 3.75G , also provide mobile broadband access of several Mbit/s  to स्मार्टफ़ोन और  mobile modems in laptop computers .
3G finds application in wireless voice telephony , mobile Internet access , fixed  बेतार अंतरजाल  access , video calls and mobile TV .
`` Mazel Tov ! '' written on  a वाइन कांच  tag
Traditionally , after the groom breaks the glass , the guests shout ``  mazel tov ! ``  .
A birthday cake , iced with the words `` מזל טוב '' ( mazal tov )  ,  as is often done in Israel .
Here the phrase is  लिखा in यहूदी कर्सिव  .
`` Mazel tov '' or `` mazal  tov '' ( यहूदी / यहूदी : `` מזל  טוב '' , Hebrew : `` mazal tov '' ; Yiddish : `` mazel tov '' ; lit .
`` good luck ''  ) is a  phrase used to express congratulations for a happy and significant occasion or event .
hepatitis  C is an infectious disease affecting primarily the liver , caused by the hepatitis C virus ( HCV ) .
The infection is often asymptomatic , but chronic infection can lead to  scarring of the जिगर और ultimately to cirrhosis  , which is generally apparent after many years .
In some cases , those with cirrhosis will  go on  to develop liver failure , liver cancer or life-threatening esophageal and gastric varices .
HCV is  स्प्रेड primarily by blood-to-blood  contact associated with intravenous drug use , poorly sterilized medical equipment and transfusions .
An estimated 130–200  लाख  people worldwide are infected with .
The existence of ( originally `` non- A non- B hepatitis '' ) was postulated in the 1970s and  सिद्ध  in 1989 .
only  infects  humans and chimpanzees .
The virus persists in the liver in about 85 %  of those  infected .
This persistent infection can be treated with medication : the standard therapy is a combination of peginterferon and  ribavirin , साथ either  boceprevir or telaprevir added in some cases .
Overall  , 50–80  % of people treated are cured .
Those who develop  cirrhosis or जिगर  cancer may require a liver transplant .
is the leading  कारण of जिगर प्रत्यारोपण  , though the virus usually recurs after transplantation .
No vaccine against is  उपलब्धियाँ  .
A flexible spending account (  fsa ) , भी ज्ञात as a लचीली बिता व्यवस्था , is एक  of a number of tax-advantaged financial accounts that can be set up through a cafeteria plan of an employer in the United States .
An FSA allows an employee to set aside a portion of earnings to pay for qualified expenses as established in the cafeteria plan , most commonly for medical expenses but often for  निर्भर परवाह or अन्य  expenses .
Money deducted from an employee 's pay into  an fsa is नहीं विषय  to payroll taxes , resulting in substantial payroll tax savings .
One significant disadvantage to using an FSA is that funds not used by the  समाप्त of the योजना साल हैं खोया to the कर्मचारी , ज्ञात  as the `` use it or lose it '' rule .
The most common type of flexible spending account , the medical expense FSA ( also medical FSA or health FSA ) , is similar  to a स्वास्थ्य बचत खाता  ( HSA ) or a health reimbursement account ( HRA ) .
however , जबकि hsas और hras हैं लगभग exclusively प्रयुक्त as components of a उपभोक्ता चलित स्वास्थ्य परवाह योजना , चिकित्सा fsas हैं commonly offered साथ अधिक परंपरागत स्वास्थ्य योजनाएँ  as well .
In addition , funds in a health  savings  account are not lost when the plan year is over , unlike funds in an FSA .
Paper forms or an FSA debit card , also known as a Flexcard  ,  may be used to access the account funds .
Tennessee ( ) ( ) is a U.S. state located in the Southeastern  संयुक्त राज्य  .
Tennessee is the 36th most extensive and the 17th most  populous of the 50  United States .
Tennessee is bordered by Kentucky and Virginia to the north , North Carolina to the east , Georgia ,  अलबामा , और मिसिसिपी to the  south , and Arkansas and Missouri to the west .
The Appalachian Mountains dominate the  पूर्वी भाग  of the state , and the Mississippi River forms the state 's western border .
Tennessee 's capital and second  largest नगर  is Nashville , which has a population of 609,644 .
मेम्फिस  is the state 's largest city , with a population of 652,050 .
The state of Tennessee is rooted in the Watauga Association , a 1772 frontier pact generally  regarded as the पहला  constitutional government west of the Appalachians .
What is now Tennessee was initially part of North Carolina , and later  भाग of the  Southwest Territory .
Tennessee  थी  admitted to the Union as the 16th state on June 1 , 1796 .
Tennessee was the last state to leave the Union and join the Confederacy at the outbreak of the U.S. Civil War in 1861 , and the first state to be readmitted to the  संघ at the समाप्त of  the war .
टेनेसी सुसज्जित अधिक सैनिको लिये the  Confederate Army than any other state , and more soldiers for the Union Army than any other Southern state .
In the 20th century , Tennessee transitioned from an agrarian economy to a more diversified economy , aided at times by federal  entities ऐसे as the टेनेसी घाटी प्राधिकार  .
In the early 1940s , the city of Oak Ridge was established to house the Manhattan Project 's uranium enrichment facilities , helping to build  the संसार  's first atomic bomb .
Tennessee has played a critical role in the  विकास  of many forms of American popular music , including rock and roll , blues , country , and rockabilly .
Beale Street in Memphis is considered  by अनेक to be the  birthplace of the blues , with musicians such as W.C . Handy performing in its clubs as early as 1909 .
Memphis was also home to Sun Records , where musicians such as Elvis Presley , Isaac Hayes , Johnny Cash , Carl Perkins , Jerry Lee Lewis , Roy Orbison , and Charlie Rich began  उनके रिकॉर्डिंग करियर , और जहाँ चट्टान और  roll took shape in the 1950s .
The 1927 Victor recording sessions in Bristol generally mark the beginning of the country music genre and the  वृद्धि of the ग्रैंड ओले opry in the 1930s helped  make Nashville the center of the country music recording industry .
तीन  bricks and mortar museums recognize Tennessee 's role in nurturing various forms of popular music : the Memphis Rock N ' Soul Museum , the Country Music Hall of Fame and Museum in Nashville , and the International Rock-A-Billy Museum in Jackson .
In addition , the Rockabilly Hall of Fame , an online site recognizing the development of rockabilly in which Tennessee played a crucial role  , is आधारित in  Nashville .
Tennessee 's major industries include  कृषि , निर्माण  , and tourism .
Poultry ,  soybeans , और चौपायों हैं the राज्य  's primary agricultural products , and major manufacturing exports include chemicals , transportation equipment , and electrical equipment .
The Great Smoky Mountains National Park , the nation 's most visited national park , is headquartered in the eastern part of the state , and a section of the Appalachian Trail roughly follows the  tennessee-north  Carolina border .
अन्य प्रमुख पर्यटक आकर्षण शामिल the टेनेसी एक्वेरियम in चट्टानूगा , the sunsphere in knoxville , dollywood in कबूतर forge , the पार्थेनन , the देश म्यूज़िक हॉल of कीर्ति और संग्रहालय , और ryman ऑडिटोरियम in नैशविले , और एल्विस प्रेस्ली 's graceland  residence and tomb in Memphis .
One design  रूपांतर  of a cock ring .
A cock ring is a ring that  can be लगाई around a man 's शिश्न , प्रायः at the  base , primarily to slow the flow of blood from the erect penile tissue , thus maintaining an erection for a much longer period of time .
Cock rings  can be worn around बस  the penis or both the penis and scrotum , or just the scrotum alone , though this is usually called a testicle cuff .
Rings can be  बना of a किस्में  of different materials , most commonly leather , rubber , or silicone , though nylon and metal are also used either as the main component or part of the closure .
The term cock ring is sometimes used as  a पर्याय लिये a प्रिंस  Albert piercing , a piercing of the penis that is usually , though not always , a metal ring .
When used in cases of erectile dysfunction they are  ज्ञात by विभिन्न names ऐसे as  `` erection ring '' and `` tension ring '' .
The headquarters of Major League Baseball at 245 Park Avenue ,  midtown  Manhattan , New York City , USA .
Major League Baseball ( MLB ) is a professional baseball league , consisting of teams that play in  the नेशनल लीग और  the American League .
Dating to 1876 and 1901 respectively , the two leagues  मिलाया in 2000 into a  single organization led by the Commissioner of Baseball , after 100 years as separate legal entities .
MLB  constitutes एक  of the major professional sports leagues of the United States and Canada .
It is composed of 30 teams — 29  in the संयुक्त  States and one in Canada .
Teams in MLB play 162 games each  ऋतु over छह  months ( April through September ) .
Five teams in  प्रत्येक लीग अग्रिम to a four-round postseason टूर्नामेंट  that culminates in the World Series , a best-of-seven-games championship series between the two league champions which dates to 1903 .
The organization oversees many  minor-league बेसबॉल  leagues which operate about 240 teams affiliated with the major-league clubs .
With the International Baseball Federation , the league also manages the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  World Baseball Classic tournament .
MLB has the highest season attendance of any sports league in the  संसार साथ nearly  75 million spectators in 2012 .
डेलावेयर ( ) is a u.S.  state located on the Atlantic Coast in the Mid-Atlantic region of the United States .
It is bordered to  the दक्षिण और वेस्ट by मेरीलैंड  , to the northeast by New Jersey , and to the north by Pennsylvania .
The state takes its name from Thomas West , 3rd Baron De La Warr , an English nobleman and  वर्जिनिया 's पहला औपनिवेशिक राज्यपाल , बाद  whom what is now called Cape Henlopen was originally named .
Delaware is located in the northeastern portion of the Delmarva  प्रायद्वीप और is the दूसरी  smallest , the sixth least populous , but the sixth most densely populated of the fifty United States .
Delaware is  विभाजित  into three counties .
From  उत्तर to दक्षिण , ये  three counties are New Castle , Kent , and Sussex .
While the southern two counties have historically been predominantly agricultural , New Castle County has been   more industrialized .
Before its coastline was explored by Europeans in the 16th century , Delaware was inhabited by several groups of Native Americans  , सहित the lenape  in the north and Nanticoke in the south .
It was initially colonized by Dutch traders at  zwaanendael , स्तिथ निकट the उपस्थित  town of Lewes , in 1631 .
Delaware was one of the 13 colonies participating in the American Revolution and  on दिसम्बर 7 , 1787  , became the first state to ratify the Constitution of the United States , thereby becoming known as The First State .
उर्जा  Transformation in Energy Systems Language
Energy transformation or energy  परिवर्तन is the प्रक्रम of बदलना  one form of energy to another .
In physics , the term energy describes the capacity to produce certain changes within a system , without  लिहाज़ to सीमाएं in परिवर्तन  imposed by Entropy .
Changes in   total energy of systems can only be accomplished by adding or subtracting energy from them , as energy is a quantity which is conserved , according to the first law of thermodynamics .
According to special relativity , changes in the energy of systems will also coincide with changes in  the प्रणाली 's  mass , and the total amount of mass of a system is a measure of its energy .
Energy in a system may be transformed so that it resides in a  अलग  state , or a different type of energy .
Energy in many states may  be  used to do many varieties of physical work .
Energy may be used  in प्राकृतिक प्रक्रियाओं or मशीने , or else to provide  some service to society ( such as heat , light , or motion ) .
For example , an internal combustion engine converts the potential chemical energy in gasoline and oxygen into heat , which is  तब रूपांतरित into the propulsive  energy ( kinetic energy that moves a vehicle ) .
A solar cell converts solar radiation into electrical energy that can then be used to light  a बल्ब or शक्ति a कंप्यूटर  .
The generic name for a device which converts energy   from one form to another , is a transducer .
In general , most types of energy , save for  थर्मल  energy , may be converted efficiently to any other kind of energy .
Sometimes  इस occurs साथ an दक्षता of essentially  100 % , such as when potential energy is converted to kinetic energy as an object falls in vacuum , or when it orbits nearer or farther from another object , in space .
Conversion of other types of energies to heat may also occurs with  nearly पूर्ण दक्षता  ( many types of friction do this ) .
Exceptions for perfect conversion efficiency ( even for isolated systems ) occur when energy has already been partly distributed among many available quantum states for a collection of particles , which are  freely अनुमत to explore कोई राज्य of आवेग और स्थिति ( phase  space ) .
In such circumstances , a measure called Entropy , or evening-out of energy distribution in such states , dictates that future states of the system must be of  at तनिक बराबर evenness  in energy distribution .
( There is no  रास्ता , लेने the ब्रह्मांड as a पूरे  , to collect energy into fewer states , once it has spread to them ) .
A consequence of this requirement is that there are limitations to the efficiency with which thermal energy can be converted to other kinds of energy , since thermal energy  in संतुलन  at a given temperature already represents the maximal evening-out of energy between all possible states .
Such energy is sometimes considered `` degraded energy  ,  '' because it is not entirely usable .
The second law of  ऊष्मागतिकी is a रास्ता of stating कि  , for this reason , thermal energy in a system may be converted to other kinds of energy with efficiencies approaching 100 % , only if the entropy ( even-ness or disorder ) of the universe is increased by other means , to compensate for the decrease in entropy associated with the disappearance of the thermal energy and its entropy content .
Otherwise , only a part of thermal energy may be converted to other kinds of energy ( and thus , useful work ) , since the remainder of the heat must be reserved to be transferred to a thermal reservoir at a lower  तापमान , in ऐसे a रास्ता कि the बढ़ाएँ in एन्ट्रॉपी लिये इस  process more than compensates for the entropy decrease associated with transformation of the rest of the heat into other types of energy .
the नेशनल हॉकी लीग ( एनएचएल ; ) is an `` unincorporated  not-for-profit association '' which operates a major professional ice hockey league of 30 franchised member clubs , of which seven are currently located in Canada and 23 in the United States .
Headquartered in New York City , the NHL is widely considered to be the premier professional ice hockey league  in the संसार , और  one of the major professional sports leagues in the United States and Canada .
The Stanley Cup , the oldest professional  खेल ट्रॉफी in उत्तर  America , is awarded annually to the league playoff champion at the end of each season .
The league was organized on November 26 , 1917 , in Montreal , Quebec , Canada , after the suspension of operations of its predecessor organization , the National Hockey  संघ ( नह ) , जिससे  had been founded in 1909 .
It started with four teams and , through a series of expansions ,  contractions , और relocations ,  the league is now composed of 30 active franchises .
The nation to which the name of the league originally referred was Canada , although the  लीग रै अभी महरूम binational  since 1924 when it expanded into the United States .
After a labour dispute that led to the cancellation of the entire  2004–05 ऋतु  , the league resumed play under a new collective bargaining agreement that included a salary cap .
In 2009 ,  the एनएचएल enjoyed  record highs in terms of sponsorships , attendance , and television audiences .
The NHL draws many highly skilled players from all over the world and  फिलहाल रै खिलाड़ी  from about 20 different countries .
Although Canadians  have historically गठित  the majority of the players in the NHL , over the past four plus decades the percentages of US and European players have increased both because of the NHL 's continued expansion from six to thirty clubs since 1967 , and the increased availability of highly skilled European players .
This is the complete list of the ratified and unratified amendments to  the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान  which received the approval of the United States Congress .
Twenty-seven amendments have been ratified  चूंकि the असली हस्ताक्षर  of the Constitution , the first ten of which are known collectively as the Bill of Rights .
The procedure for amending the United States Constitution is  governed by आलेख v of  the original text .
There have been many other proposals for amendments to the United States Constitution introduced in  कॉंग्रेस , लकिन नहीं  submitted to the states .
Before an amendment can take effect , it must be proposed to the states by a two-thirds vote of both houses of Congress or by a convention ( known as an Article V convention ) called by two-thirds of the states , and ratified by three-fourths of the  राज्य or by three-fourths of प्रथाओं thereof  , the method of ratification being determined by Congress at the time of proposal .
To date , no convention for proposing amendments has been called by the states , and only once—in 1933 for the ratification of  the twenty-first amendment —has the सम्मेलन  method of ratification been employed .
FMR LLC ( Fidelity Management and Research ) or  वफ़ादारी निवेश  is an American multinational financial services corporation .
It is one of the  largest परस्पर निधि  and financial services groups in the world .
It was founded in  1946 और serves उत्तर  American investors .
Fidelity Ventures is its venture  पूंजी भुजा  .
वफ़ादारी अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Limited ( FIL ) , was an international affiliate founded in 1969 , serving most countries in the rest of the world .
In September 2011  , फील  was rebranded as 'Fidelity Worldwide Investment ' .
Fidelity Investments manages a large family of mutual funds , provides fund distribution and   investment advice services , as well as providing discount brokerage services , retirement services , wealth management , securities execution and clearance , life insurance and a number of other services .
June 2006 was  the छठे  month of that year .
It began on a  गुरुवार और ended बाद  30 days on a Friday The following events also occurred during the month:
Sociology is the  वैज्ञानिक  study of human society and its origins , development , organizations , and institutions .
It is a social science which uses various  विधि of अनुभवजन्य छानबीन और नाजुक  analysis to develop a body of knowledge about human social activity , structures , and functions .
A goal for many  sociologists is to conduct शोध  which may be applied directly to social policy and welfare , while others focus primarily on refining the theoretical understanding of social processes .
Subject matter ranges from the micro level of individual agency and interaction to the macro  स्तर of प्रणालियों और  the social structure .
The traditional  focuses of समाजशास्त्र  include social stratification , social class , culture , race and ethnicity , gender and sexuality , social mobility , religion , secularization , law , and deviance .
As all spheres of human activity are affected by the interplay between social structure and individual agency , sociology has gradually expanded its focus to further subjects ,  ऐसे as स्वास्थ्य , चिकित्सा , सैन्य और penal संस्थानों  , the Internet , environmental sociology , political economy and the role of social activity in the development of scientific knowledge .
The range of social scientific  विधि रै भी विस्तारित  .
Social researchers draw upon  a किस्में of  qualitative and quantitative techniques .
The linguistic and cultural turns of the mid-twentieth century led to increasingly interpretative , hermeneutic , and philosophic approaches to the  विश्लेषण of  society .
Conversely , recent decades have seen the rise of new  analytically , mathematically  and computationally rigorous techniques , such as agent-based modelling and social network analysis .
Sociology should not be confused with various general social studies courses which bear little  संबंध  to sociological theory or social science research methodology .
Thunder is the  ध्वनि  caused by lightning .
Depending on the nature of the lightning and distance of the  श्रोता , थंडर  can range from a sharp , loud crack to a long , low rumble ( brontide ) .
The sudden increase in pressure and temperature from lightning produces rapid expansion of the air surrounding and within a bolt of lightning   .
In turn , this expansion of air creates a sonic shock wave , similar to a sonic boom , which produces the sound of thunder , often referred to as a clap , crack , or peal of  थंडर  .
The distance of the lightning can be calculated by the listener based on the time interval from when the lightning is seen to  जब  the sound is heard .
Palma ( , , ) , in full Palma de Mallorca , is the major city and port on the island of Majorca ( Mallorca ) and capital city of the  autonomous जातियाँ of the balearic आइलैंड्स  in Spain .
The names Ciutat de Mallorca ( City of Majorca ) and Ciutat ( City ) were used before the War of the Spanish Succession and are still used by people in  majorca .
However , the official name was  mallorca  , the same as the island .
It is situated on the south coast of  the द्वीप on the  Bay of Palma .
as of the 2009 जनसांख्यिकी , the जनसांख्यिकी  of the city of Palma proper was 401,270 , and the population of the entire urban area was 517,285 , ranking as the twelfth largest urban area of Spain .
Almost half of the total population of Majorca live   in Palma .
The Cabrera Archipelago , though widely separated from Palma proper , is  administratively माना भाग of  the municipality .
Its airport , Son Sant Joan , serves over 22  लाख यात्री  each year .
The Marivent Palace was offered by the city to  the तब  Prince Juan Carlos I of Spain .
The royals have since spent  उनके गर्मियाँ  holidays in Palma .
luthor  redirects here .
For other uses  , देखिए  Luther ( disambiguation ) .
Alexander Joseph `` Lex '' Luthor is a  fictional अक्षर , a supervillain  appearing in comic books published by DC Comics .
Luthor is the archenemy of Superman , and as a high-status  supervillain  , has also come into conflict with Batman and other superheroes in the DC Universe .
Created by Jerry Siegel and Joe Shuster , the character first appeared in  कार्रवाई कॉमिक्स #  23 ( April 1940 ) .
luthor is वर्णित  as `` a power-mad , evil scientist '' of high intelligence and incredible technological prowess .
Luthor 's goals typically center on  हत्या सुपरमैन  , the foremost obstacle to achieving the villain 's megalomaniacal goals .
Despite periodically wearing a powered exoskeleton , Luthor has traditionally lacked  superpowers or a डुअल  identity .
The character was originally depicted as a mad scientist who , in the  रग of गूदा novels  , wreaks havoc on the world with his futuristic weaponry .
In his earliest  दिखावे , luthor  is shown with a full head of red hair .
despite इस  , the character later became hairless as the result of an artist 's mistake .
A 1960 story by Jerry Siegel expanded upon Luthor 's origin and motivations ,  revealing  him to be a childhood friend of Superman 's who lost his hair when a fire destroyed his laboratory ; Luthor vowed revenge .
Following  the 1985 सीमित श्रेणी संकट on अनन्त earths , the अक्षर  was re-imagined as a Machiavellian industrialist and white-collar criminal , even briefly serving as President of the United States .
In recent years , various writers have  revived luthor 's mad वैज्ञानिक persona  from the 1940s .
The character was ranked as the 8th  महानतम  Villain by Wizard on its 100 Greatest Villains of All Time list .
IGN 's list of the Top 100 Comic Book Villains of All  समय क्रमित luthor  as # 4 .
Luthor is also described as a `` megavillain '' by comic book critic Peter Sanderson , one of a few genre-crossing villains whose adventures take place `` in a world in which the ordinary laws of nature are slightly  निलंबित '' ; वर्ण ऐसे as  Professor Moriarty , Count Dracula , Hannibal Lecter , Doctor Doom , and Darth Vader , also fit this description .
Martin Luther King , Jr. Day is a United States federal holiday marking the birthday of Rev . Dr. Martin Luther  किंग , jr  .
It is observed on the   third Monday of January each year , which is around the time of King 's birthday , January 15 .
The floating holiday is similar to holidays set under the Uniform Monday Holiday Act , though the act predated the   establishment of Martin Luther King , Jr. Day by 15 years .
King was the chief spokesman for nonviolent activism in the civil rights movement , which successfully protested  जातिगत पक्षपात  in federal and state law .
The campaign for a  संघीय  holiday in King 's honor began soon after his assassination in 1968 .
Ronald Reagan signed the holiday into law in 1983 , and it was  पहला observed  on January 20 , 1986 .
At first , some states resisted observing the holiday as such ,  giving it  alternative names or combining it with other holidays .
It was officially observed  in सब 50 राज्य  for the first time in 2000 .
The camera phone solution allows  तत्काल  sharing of pictures .
As it 's automatic and instant , the user does not have to use a cable or removable media to connect  to a personal  computer .
A camera phone is a mobile phone  जिससे is समर्थ  to capture still photographs ( and usually video ) .
Since early in  the  21st century the majority of mobile phones in use are camera phones .
Most camera phones  हैं simpler  than separate digital cameras .
Their usual fixed focus lenses and smaller  सेंसर सीमा उनके  performance in poor lighting .
lacking  a physical shutter , most have a long shutter lag .
फ्लैश , जहाँ  present , is usually weak .
Optical zoom and  तिपाई screws  are rare .
Some also lack a USB connection ,  removable  memory card , or other way of transferring their pictures more quickly than by the phone 's inherent communication feature .
Some of the more expensive camera phones have only a few of these technical disadvantages , which apply  सबसे acutely in कम लाइट  conditions and in any case have not inhibited their widespread use .
सबसे मॉडल लाइनों  improve in these regards every year or two .
कुछ  , such as the Droid Incredible only have a menu choice to start an application program to activate the camera .
Others , such as the BlackBerry  तूफ़ान 2 , droid  X , Motorola V980 and Nokia 5800 also have a separate camera button for quickness and convenience .
Windows Phones can be configured  to operate as a कैमरा  even if the phone is asleep .
Some camera phones are designed to resemble separate low-end digital compact cameras in appearance and to some extent in  सुविधाएँ और चित्र विशेषता , और  are branded as both mobile phones and cameras , including certain Sony phones .
The  प्रिंसिपल लाभ of कैमरा फोन हैं लागत और  compactness ; indeed for a user who carries a mobile phone anyway , the additional size and cost are negligible .
Smartphones that are  कैमरा  phones may run mobile applications to add capabilities such as geotagging and image stitching .
A few high end phones can use their touch screen to direct their camera to focus on a particular object  in the फ़ील्ड of दृश्य , giving भी an अनुभवहीन उपयोक्ता a उपाधि  of focus control exceeded only by seasoned photographers using manual focus .
`` Whatever  happened to the man of कल  ? '' is a 1986 comic book story featuring the DC Comics character of Superman .
Written by Alan Moore with help from long-time , and soon to be retiring , Superman editor , Julius Schwartz , the story was published in two parts , beginning in Superman # 423  और समाप्ति in कार्रवाई कॉमिक्स # 583 , दोनो प्रकाशित  in September 1986 .
The story was drawn by long-time artist Curt Swan , in his final major  योगदान to the सुपरमैन  titles , and was inked by George Pérez in the issue of Superman and Kurt Schaffenberger in the issue of Action Comics .
The story was an imaginary tale which told the final story of the Silver Age Superman and his long history , which was being rebooted  following the कार्यक्रम of संकट  on Infinite Earths , before his modern introduction in the John Byrne series , The Man of Steel .
Moore wanted his plot to honor the long history of the character  और to  serve as a complete conclusion to his mythology .
The story is a frame story set ten years after Superman was last  देखी , जहाँ लोइस लेन  recounts the tale of the end of Superman 's career to a reporter from the Daily Planet .
Her story includes numerous violent attacks against Superman by his enemies ,  the पब्लिक  revelation of his secret identity of Clark Kent and a number of deaths of those closest to him .
The story has been  cited as एक of the बेहतरीन  stories of the character of Superman , and critics and audiences frequently choose it as one of the most memorable comics ever published .
It is used as an example of how to close  the long-time निरंतरता  of a comic book character .
The story 's legacy has endured with  समान कहानियां लिखा  as tributes to it .
The title is a reference to one of the nicknames of Superman as the Man of  कल , और थी प्रयुक्त in the  title of another Superman .
the bugatti  Veyron EB 16.4 is a mid-engined grand touring car , designed and developed by the Volkswagen Group and manufactured in Molsheim , France by Bugatti Automobiles S.A.S .
The Super Sport  संस्करण of the veyron is the तीव्रतम  street-legal production car in the world , with a top speed of .
The original version  रै  a top speed of .
It was named Car of the Decade ( 2000–2009 ) by  the बीबीसी टेलीविज़न  programme Top Gear .
The standard Veyron won  शीर्ष गियर्स  Best Car Driven All Year award in 2005 .
on 6 अप्रैल 2013 , bugatti नियत the रिकार्ड लिये the तीव्रतम roadster in the संसार साथ the veyron ग्रैंड खेल vitesse , reaching on औसत a शीर्ष गति of  .
The Veyron 's chief  पंक्तियां थी hartmut warkuss , और  the exterior was designed by Jozef Kabaň of Volkswagen , with much of the engineering work being conducted under the guidance of engineering chief Wolfgang Schreiber .
A number of  खास विसंगतियाँ  have been produced .
In December 2010 , Bugatti began offering prospective buyers the ability to customize exterior and interiors colours by using  the veyron 16.4 configurator  application on the marque 's official website .
The institution of the Eucharist has been a key theme in the  depictions of the पिछला  Supper in Christian art , as in this 16th-century Juan de Juanes painting .
`` At the Last Supper , on the night he was betrayed , our  रक्षक instituted the eucharistic  sacrifice of his Body and Blood . ''
( Catechism of the Catholic  गिरिजाघर 1323 )
Eucharist in the Catholic Church refers to both the celebration of the Mass , that is  , the eucharist liturgy , और the ब्रैड और  wine which after the consecration are transubstantiated ( changed in substance ) into the body and blood of Jesus Christ , Lord and God , a declaration formulated by the Council of Trent with an anathema against anyone who denied this .
Blessed Sacrament is a devotional term used in the Roman Catholic Church to refer to the Eucharistic  प्रजाति ( the देह और रक्त  of Christ ) .
The following is a list of colleges and universities  in the u.S. राज्य of louisiana  .
A short story is a brief work of literature ,  प्रायः लिखा  in narrative prose .
Emerging from earlier oral storytelling traditions in the 17th century  , the छोटी स्टोरी रै grown  to encompass a body of work so diverse as to defy easy characterization .
At its most prototypical the short story features a small cast of named characters , and focuses on a  self-contained घटना साथ  the intent of evoking a `` single effect '' or mood .
In so doing , short stories  make use of  plot , resonance , and other dynamic components to a far greater degree than is typical of an anecdote , yet to a far lesser degree than a novel .
While the  छोटी स्टोरी is largely पृथक इससे the अनोखा  , authors of both generally draw from a common pool of literary techniques .
छोटी कहानियां  have no set length .
In terms of word count there is no official demarcation between an anecdote , a short  स्टोरी , और a अनोखा  .
Rather , the form 's parameters are given by the rhetorical and practical context in which a given story is produced and considered , so that what constitutes a short story may differ between genres , countries , eras ,  और टीकाकारों  .
Like the novel , the short story 's predominant shape reflects the demands of the available markets for  प्रकाशन , और the एवोल्यूशन of  the form seems closely tied to the evolution of the publishing industry and the submission guidelines of its constituent houses .
The short story has been considered both an apprenticeship form preceding more lengthy works , and a crafted form in its own right ,  एकत्रित साथ in  books of similar length , price , and distribution as novels .
Short story writers may define their  works as भाग of the  artistic and personal expression of the form .
They  may भी  attempt to resist categorization by genre and fixed form .
क्षेत्रफल  codes in Michigan
Area code 810 is the  टेलीफोन  area code serving eastern Michigan .
The raccoon ( ,  procyon lotor ) , sometimes spelled racoon , भी ज्ञात as the आम  raccoon , North American raccoon , northern raccoon and colloquially as coon , is a medium-sized mammal native to North America .
The raccoon is the largest of the procyonid family , having a  देह लंबाई of और a देह  weight of .
Its grayish coat mostly   consists of dense underfur which insulates against cold weather .
दो of the raccoon 's सबसे distinctive सुविधाएँ हैं इसके अत्यधिक dexterous सामने पंजे और इसके फेशियल मुखौटा , जिससे हैं विषयवस्तु in the mythology of अनेक देशी अमरीकी जनजातियों .
Raccoons are noted for their intelligence , with studies showing that they are able to remember the  समाधान to कार्य लिये up  to three years .
The diet of the omnivorous raccoon , which is usually nocturnal , consists of  परिचय 40 % invertebrates  , 33 % plant foods , and 27 % vertebrates .
the असली habitats of the  raccoon are deciduous and mixed forests , but due to their adaptability they have extended their range to mountainous areas , coastal marshes , and urban areas , where some homeowners consider them to be pests .
As a result of escapes and deliberate introductions  in the  mid-20th century , raccoons are now also distributed across the European mainland , the Caucasus region and Japan .
Though previously thought to be solitary ,  वहीँ is अभी प्रमाण  that raccoons engage in gender-specific social behavior .
Related females often share a common area , while unrelated males live together in groups of up to four animals to maintain their positions  विरूद्ध विदेशी males दौरान the समागम ऋतु , और अन्य संभावित  invaders .
Home range sizes vary anywhere from 3  हेक्टेयर ( 7 एकड़  ) for females in cities to 50 km2 ( 20 sq mi ) for males in prairies .
After a gestation period of  परिचय 65 दिनों , दो to पाँच  young , known as `` kits '' , are born in spring .
the kits हैं subsequently  raised by their mother until dispersion in late fall .
Although captive raccoons have been known to live over 20 years , their average life expectancy in the wild is only 1.8 to  3.1 सालो  .
In many areas , hunting and vehicular injury are the two most common  कल्याणकारी of मौत .
The 2010 Haiti earthquake was a catastrophic  परिमाण 7.0 mw भूकंप  , with an epicenter near the town of Léogâne ( Ouest Department ) , approximately west of Port-au-Prince , Haiti 's capital .
The earthquake occurred at 16:53 local time ( 21:53 UTC ) on   Tuesday , 12 January 2010 .
By 24 January , at least 52 aftershocks measuring 4.5 or  वृहद था महरूम अंकित  .
An estimated three  लाख लोगों यहूद प्रभावित  by the quake .
The  उच्चतम  reliable death count was estimated at 220,000 .
Haitian  सरकारी  estimates were higher .
The government of Haiti estimated that 250,000 residences and 30,000  वाणिज्यिक इमारतें  had collapsed or were severely damaged .
The earthquake caused major damage in Port-au-Prince  , jacmel और अन्य  settlements in the region .
Many notable landmark buildings were significantly damaged or destroyed , including the Presidential Palace ,  the नेशनल सभा भवन ,  the Port-au-Prince Cathedral , and the main jail .
Among those killed were Archbishop of Port-au-Prince Joseph Serge Miot , and opposition  नेता  Micha Gaillard .
The headquarters of the United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti (  minustah ) , स्तिथ in the पूंजी , collapsed  , killing many , including the Mission 's Chief , Hédi Annabi .
Many countries responded to appeals for humanitarian aid , pledging funds and dispatching rescue and  चिकित्सा टीमों , इंजीनियर्स  and support personnel .
Communication systems , air , land , and sea transport facilities , hospitals , and  विद्युत संजाल था महरूम क्षतिग्रस्त by the भूकंप  , which hampered rescue and aid efforts ; confusion over who was in charge , air traffic congestion , and problems with prioritisation of flights further complicated early relief work .
Port-au-Prince 's morgues were  अभिभूत  with tens of thousands of bodies .
These had to be buried in mass  क़ब्रों .
As rescues tailed off , supplies , medical care and  स्वच्छता  became priorities .
Delays in aid  वितरण  led to angry appeals from aid workers and survivors , and looting and sporadic violence were observed .
On 22 January the United Nations noted that the emergency phase of the relief operation was drawing  to a बंद , और on  the following day the Haitian government officially called off the search for survivors .
Mister Ed is a fictional talking horse , originally appearing in short stories by Walter R. Brooks , and later in an American television situation comedy produced by  filmways  that first aired in syndication from January 5 to July 2 , 1961 , and then on CBS from October 1 , 1961 to February 6 , 1966 .
The stars of the show were Mister Ed , a palomino horse who could `` talk '' , played by gelding Bamboo Harvester and voiced by former Western star Allan Lane ( who went uncredited for the entire length of the series ) , and his owner , an eccentric and enormously klutzy , yet friendly , architect  named  Wilbur Post ( Alan Young ) .
Much of the program 's humor stemmed from the fact Mister Ed would speak only  to wilbur , as खूब  as Ed 's notoriety as a troublemaker .
Other running jokes centered on  Wilbur 's  character being a huge klutz and inadvertently causing harm to himself or others .
According to the show 's producer , Arthur Lubin , Young was chosen as the lead character because he `` just seemed like the sort  of guy a घोड़ा होता बात  to '' .
Lubin , a friend of Mae West , scored a coup by persuading  the स्क्रीन प्रतीक to  guest star in one episode .
In the United States , reruns aired on Nick at Nite from March 3  , 1986 , to फ़रवरी 1  , 1993 .
Sister station TV Land also reran the show from 1996–98 and  again  from 2003-06 .
The series is currently broadcast every  morning on इस tv , साथ  with Highway Patrol , and The Patty Duke Show .
It is  भी  currently broadcast on Hallmark Movie Channel .
As of January 1 , 2011 ,  the पहला दो सीज़न  of the show are available on Hulu .
The Rapture is a term in Christian eschatology which refers to the `` being caught up '' discussed in 1 Thessalonians 4:17 , when the  `` मुर्दे in मसीह '' और `` we जो हैं जिंदा और remain '' होगा be ``  caught up in the clouds '' to meet `` the Lord in the air '' .
The term `` Rapture '' is used in  at तनिक दो  senses .
In the pre-tribulation view , a group of people will be left  पीछे on  earth after another group literally leaves `` to meet the Lord in the air . ''
This is now the most common use of the term ,  विशेषकर among  fundamentalist Christians and in the United States .
The other , older use of the term `` Rapture '' is simply as a synonym for the final resurrection generally , without a belief that a group of people is left behind on earth for an extended Tribulation period after the events  of 1 thessalonians  4:17 .
This distinction is important as some types of Christianity never refer to `` the Rapture '' in religious education , but might use the older and more general sense of the word `` rapture  '' in referring to कया happens दौरान the फाइनल  resurrection .
There are many views among Christians regarding the timing of Christ 's return (  सहित whether it होगा occur in  one event or two ) , and various views regarding the destination of the aerial gathering described in 1 Thessalonians 4 .
Denominations such as Roman Catholics ,  परंपरागत ईसाइयों , लूथरन ईसाइयों , और reformed ईसाइयों  believe in a rapture only in the sense of a general final resurrection , when Christ returns a single time .
They do not believe that a group of people is left behind on earth for an extended Tribulation period after the events  of 1 thessalonians  4:17 .
pre-tribulation rapture धर्मशास्त्र थी विकसित in the 1830s  by John Nelson Darby and the Plymouth Brethren , and popularized in the United States in the early 20th century by the wide circulation of the Scofield Reference Bible .
Kris Nathan Humphries ( born February 6 , 1985 ) is an American professional basketball  खिलाड़ी साथ the ब्रुकलीन  Nets .
The Philistine  शहरों  of Gaza , Ashdod , Ashkelon , Ekron , and Gath
The Philistines ( , , , or ; , Plištim ) , Pleshet or Peleset ,  यहूद a लोगों जो  as part of the Sea Peoples appeared in the southern coastal area of Canaan at the beginning of the Iron Age ( circa 1175 BC ) , most probably from the Aegean region .
According to the Bible , they ruled the five city-states ( the `` Philistine Pentapolis '' ) of Gaza , Ashkelon , Ashdod , Ekron and Gath , from Wadi Gaza in the  दक्षिण to the yarqon नदी in the  north , but with no fixed border to the east .
The Bible  paints उन्हें  as the Kingdom of Israel 's most dangerous enemy .
Originating somewhere in the Aegean , their population was around 25,000 in the 12th century BC , rising to a peak of 30,000 in the  11th सदी bc , of जिससे  the Aegean element was not more than half the total , and perhaps much less .
Nothing is known for certain about  the असली  language or languages of the Philistines , however they were not part of the Semitic Canaanite population .
There is some limited evidence in favour of the assumption that the Philistines were Indo-European-speakers either from  यूनानियों and/or luwian अध्यक्षों इससे  the coast of Asia Minor .
philistine-related  words found in the Bible are not Semitic , and can in some cases , with reservations , be traced back to Proto-Indo-European roots .
By the  शुरूआत of the 1st मिलेनियम  BCE they had adopted the general Canaanite language of the region .
The Armed Services Vocational Aptitude Battery ( ASVAB ) is a multiple choice test , administered by the United States Military Entrance Processing Command , used to  determine योग्यता लिये enlistment in the संयुक्त राज्य हथियारबंद  forces .
It is often offered to American high  स्कूल विद्यार्थी जब वे  are in the 10th , 11th and 12th grade , though anyone eligible for enlistment may take it .
Although the test is administered by the  सैन्य , it is नहीं ( और  never has been ) a requirement that a test-taker with a qualifying score enlist in the armed forces .
In financial accounting , a balance sheet or statement of financial position is a summary of the financial  balances of a एकमात्र बंदोबस्त , a कारोबार साझेदारी , a निगम  or other business organization , such as an LLC or an LLP .
Assets  , देनदारी  and ownership equity are listed as of a specific date , such as the end of its financial year .
A balance sheet is often described as a ``  स्नैपशॉट of a कम्पनी  's financial condition '' .
Of the  चार मौलिक  financial statements , the balance sheet is the only statement which applies to a single point in time of a business ' calendar year .
A standard company balance sheet has three parts : assets ,  देनदारी और स्वामित्व  equity .
The main categories of assets are usually listed first , and  typically  in order of liquidity .
Assets are followed by the  देनदारी  .
The difference between the assets and the liabilities is known  as इक्विटी or the जाल एसेट  or the net worth or capital of the company and according to the accounting equation , net worth must equal assets minus liabilities .
Another way to look at the same equation is that  एसेट बराबरी देनदारी प्लस मालिक  's equity .
Looking at the  समीकरण in इस  way shows how assets were financed : either by borrowing money ( liability ) or by using the owner 's money ( owner 's equity ) .
Balance sheets are usually presented with assets in one section  और देनदारी और  net worth in the other section with the two sections `` balancing . ''
A business operating entirely in cash can measure its profits by withdrawing the entire bank balance at the end of the period ,  प्लस कोई नकदी  in hand .
However ,   many businesses are not paid immediately ; they build up inventories of goods and they acquire buildings and equipment .
In other words :  व्यवसायों  have assets and so they can not , even if they want to , immediately turn these into cash at the end of each period .
Often , these businesses owe money to suppliers and to  कर अधिकारियों  , and the proprietors do not withdraw all their original capital and profits at the end of each period .
In other words businesses  भी have  liabilities .
.17 Hornady Magnum Rimfire , commonly known as the .17 HMR , is a rimfire  राइफल कार्ट्रिज विकसित by the  ammunition company Hornady in 2002 .
It descended from the .22 Magnum by necking down the .22 Magnum case to take a .17 caliber ( 4.5 mm ) bullet , and it is more costly to shoot than traditional .22  कैलिबर  rimfire cartridges .
Commonly loaded with a 17 grain (  1.1 g ) गोली , it can उद्धार  muzzle velocities in excess of 2550 ft/s ( 775 m/s ) .
The Schaumburg Flyers were a  पेशेवर बेसबॉल टोली आधारित in schaumburg  , Illinois , in the United States .
The Flyers were to be a charter member of the  North  American League , which is not affiliated with Major League Baseball , however , the team folded in March 2011 , before they began play in the NAL .
From the 1999 season to the 2010 season , the Flyers played their home games at  alexian फ़ील्ड , निकट  the Elgin O'Hare Expressway .
the टोली formerly  played in Thunder Bay , Ontario , where they were known as the Thunder Bay Whiskey Jacks .
The team was originally  a सदस्य  of the Northern League from 1993 to 2010 .
On July 27 , 2009 , the Flyers played host to Battle of the Sexes II , which pitted the Flyers against the  नेशनल प्रो fastpitch  Softball Champions , the Chicago Bandits .
Played by official softball rules , the game was seen by an overflow record crowd of  8,918 , और थी जीती  by the Bandits 4-2 .
In 1999 , the Flyers hired their first manager ,  रॉन kittle  .
Kittle is best  ज्ञात लिये उसके  playing days with the Chicago White Sox , and former Chicago Cubs and White Sox player Greg Hibbard was the pitching coach .
During  the जल्दी सालो of  the franchise , Kittle did a series of TV commercials to promote the team , using the gimmick `` Ma Kittle . '' where he played both himself and his `` Ma . ''
The ads  यहूद कामयाब  at sparking some initial interest in the team as the Flyers hoped to steal away fans from the nearby Kane County Cougars .
The ad mimicked the highly successful  converse  ads where Larry Johnson starred as both himself and `` Gramama . ''
At the end of the 2001 season ,  however ,  Kittle resigned from his managerial position , and Jim Boynewicz was hired to replace him .
in 2004 ,  the Flyers made it to the Northern League Championship Series against the St. Paul Saints .
despite  leading the five-game series 2-1 , Schaumburg eventually lost the series .
In Game 5 , Flyers relief pitcher Lyle Prempas  अनुमत a खेल जीतना ग्रैंड स्लैम by st. पॉल  infielder Marc Mirizzi in the ninth inning .
The Flyers appeared in the  उत्तरी  League Playoffs four times ( 1999 , 2003 , 2004 , 2006 ) but never won the championship .
Some famous players who played for the Flyers were former Oakland A 's outfielder   Ozzie Canseco and former Chicago Cubs outfielder Dwight Smith .
Rachel Hannah Weisz ( / vice / ; born 7 March 1970 ) is an English film and theatre actress  और पूर्व फ़ैशन मॉडल  .
Weisz began her acting career at Trinity Hall , Cambridge in the  जल्दी 1990s , तब प्रारंभ working in टेलीविज़न  , appearing in Inspector Morse , the British mini-series Scarlet and Black , and the television film Advocates II .
She made her film début in the  फिल्मी मौत यंत्र ( 1994 ) , लकिन उसके  breakthrough role came in the film Chain Reaction ( 1996 ) , leading to a high-profile role as Evelyn Carnahan-O'Connell in the films The Mummy ( 1999 ) and The Mummy Returns ( 2001 ) .
Other notable films  featuring वाइज़ हैं दुश्मन at the गेट्स , परिचय a लड़के , constantine ,  The Fountain and The Constant Gardener , for which she received an Academy Award , a Golden Globe and a Screen Actors ' Guild award for her supporting role as Tessa Quayle .
She has been labelled an `` English rose '' since her minor  भूमिका in चोरी  Beauty ( 1996 ) .
Weisz also works  in थिएटर  .
Her stage breakthrough was the 1994 revival of Noël Coward 's play Design for Living , which earned her the London Critics Circle Award  लिये the सबसे होनहार  newcomer .
Weisz 's performances  भी शामिल the 1999 donmar गोदाम उत्पादन of टेनेसी  Williams ' Suddenly , Last Summer , and their 2009 revival of A Streetcar Named Desire .
Her portrayal of Blanche DuBois in the latter play earned  उसके the आलोचकों ' वृत्त  Theatre Award for Best Actress .
She has recently played Evanora in Oz the Great and  शक्तिशाली .
The American Civil War ( ACW ) , also known as the War between the States or simply the Civil War ( see naming ) , was a civil war fought from 1861 to 1865 between the United States ( the `` Union '' or the `` North '' ) and several Southern slave states that declared their secession and  formed the confederate राज्य of अमेरिका  ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ) .
The war had its origin in the issue of  गुलामी , विशेषकर  the extension of slavery into the western territories .
विदेशी शक्तियां  did not intervene .
After four years of bloody combat that left over 600,000 soldiers dead and destroyed much of the South 's  अवसंरचना , the confederacy collapsed , गुलामी थी abolished , और the  difficult Reconstruction process of restoring national unity and guaranteeing rights to the freed slaves began .
In the 1860 presidential election , Republicans , led by Abraham Lincoln , opposed  expanding गुलामी into  United States ' territories .
Lincoln won , but before  his  inauguration on March 4 , 1861 , seven cotton-based slave states formed the Confederacy .
Outgoing Democratic President James Buchanan and  the  incoming Republicans rejected secession as illegal .
lincoln  's inaugural address declared his administration would not initiate civil war .
आठ बाकी  slave states continued to reject calls for secession .
confederate  forces seized numerous federal forts within territory claimed by the Confederacy .
A Peace Conference failed to find a compromise  , और दोनो पहलू  prepared for war .
The Confederates assumed that   European countries were so dependent on `` King Cotton `` that they would intervene ; none did and none recognized the new Confederate States of America .
Hostilities began on April 12 , 1861 , when Confederate forces  fired upon  Fort Sumter , a key fort held by Union troops in South Carolina .
Lincoln called for each state to provide troops to   retake the fort ; consequently , four more slave states joined the Confederacy , bringing their total to eleven .
The Union soon controlled the border states and established a naval  नाकेबंदी कि अबोध the  southern economy .
The Eastern Theater  थी  inconclusive in 1861–62 .
The autumn 1862  confederate अभियान into  Maryland ( a Union state ) ended with Confederate retreat at the Battle of Antietam , dissuading British intervention .
Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation , which made ending  गुलामी  a war goal .
To the west , by summer 1862  the संघ  destroyed the Confederate river navy , then much of their western armies , and the Union at Vicksburg split the Confederacy in two at the Mississippi River .
In 1863 , Robert E. Lee 's  confederate incursion  north ended at the Battle of Gettysburg .
Western successes led to Ulysses S. Grant command of all Union  सेना in 1864  .
In the Western Theater , William T. Sherman drove east to capture Atlanta and marched to  the समुद्र  , destroying Confederate infrastructure along the way .
The Union marshaled the resources and manpower to attack the Confederacy from all  दिशानिर्देश , और could afford  to fight battles of attrition through the Overland Campaign towards Richmond , the Confederate capital .
The defending Confederate army failed , leading to Lee 's surrender to Grant at  appomattox अदालत  House on April 9 , 1865 .
The American Civil War was one of the earliest true  औद्योगिक  wars .
Railroads , the telegraph , steamships , and   mass-produced weapons were employed extensively .
The  mobilization  of civilian factories , mines , shipyards , banks , transportation and food supplies all foreshadowed World War I .
It remains the deadliest war in American history ,  resulting in the मौतों of an अनुमानित 750,000 सैनिको  and an undetermined number of civilian casualties .
Historian John  huddleston estimates the मौत टोल  at ten percent of all Northern males 20–45 years old , and 30 percent of all Southern white males aged 18–40 .
आलू  bread is a form of bread in which potato replaces a portion of the regular wheat flour .
It  is पकाया in a किस्में  of methods , including by baking it on a hot griddle or pan , or in an oven .
It may be leavened or unleavened , and may have a variety of  अन्य संघटक  baked into it .
The  अनुपात of आलू to गेहूं आटा varies  significantly from recipe to recipe , with some recipes having a majority of potato , and others having a majority of wheat flour .
कुछ  recipes call for mashed potatoes , with others calling for dehydrated potato flakes .
It is available as a commercial product in many countries , with similar variations in  संघटक , कुकिंग विधि , और अन्य  variables .
The Pacific Time Zone observes standard time  by  subtracting eight hours from Coordinated Universal Time ( ) .
The clock time in this zone is based on the mean solar time of the 120th  मध्याह्न वेस्ट of the ग्रीनविच  Observatory .
During daylight saving time , its time offset is  .
In the United States and  कनाडा , इस समय मण्डल  is generically called Pacific Time ( PT ) .
Specifically  , it is प्रशांत मानक समय ( pst ) जब observing  standard time ( winter ) , and Pacific Daylight Time ( PDT ) when observing daylight saving time ( summer ) .
Most of Canada uses  daylight छायांकन  time .
In Mexico the UTC−8 time  मण्डल is ज्ञात as the  Northwest Zone , which is synchronized with the U.S. PDT daylight saving schedule .
The largest city in the Pacific  समय मण्डल is लॉस एंजिल्स in  California from USA ; the city 's metropolitan area is the largest in the zone .
The zone is one hour ahead of the Alaska Time Zone , one hour behind the Mountain Time  मण्डल और तीन घंटों पीछे  the Eastern Time Zone .
स्टीरियो 8 , commonly ज्ञात  as the eight-track cartridge , eight-track tape , or simply eight-track , is a magnetic tape sound recording technology .
It was popular in the  संयुक्त राज्य इससे  the mid-1960s through to the early 1980s , but was relatively unknown in many European countries .
It was , however , very popular in the United  किंगडम दौरान  this period .
Stereo 8 was created in 1964 by a consortium led by Bill Lear of Lear Jet  निगम , साथ  with Ampex , Ford Motor Company , General Motors , Motorola , and RCA Victor Records ( RCA ) .
It was a further development of the similar Stereo-Pak four-track cartridge created by Earl ``  madman '' muntz  .
A later quadraphonic version of the  स्वरूप थी घोषित by आरसीए in  April 1970 and first known as Quad-8 , then later changed to just Q8 .
Ramesses   II ( 1303 BC – July or August 1213 BC ; Egyptian : , alternatively transcribed as Rameses and Ramses or ) , referred to as Ramesses the Great , was the third Egyptian pharaoh ( reigned 1279 BC – 1213 BC ) of the Nineteenth dynasty .
He is often regarded as the greatest , most celebrated , and most  शक्तिशाली pharaoh of the  Egyptian Empire .
His successors and later Egyptians called him the `` Great  पूर्वज  . ''
Ramesses II led  अनेक सैन्य  expeditions into the Levant , re-asserting Egyptian control over Canaan .
He also led expeditions to the south ,  into  Nubia , commemorated in inscriptions at Beit el-Wali and Gerf Hussein .
At age fourteen , Ramesses was appointed  प्रिंस  Regent by his father Seti I .
He is believed to have taken the throne in his late teens and is known to have ruled Egypt from 1279 BC to 1213 BC for 66 years and 2 months , according to both Manetho and Egypt 's   contemporary historical records .
He was once said to have lived to be 99  सालो बूढ़ा  , but it is more likely that he died in his 90th or 91st year .
If he became Pharaoh in 1279 BC as most Egyptologists  आज मानना , he होता have assumed  the throne on May 31 , 1279 BC , based on his known accession date of III Shemu day 27 .
Ramesses II celebrated an unprecedented 14 sed festivals ( the first held after thirty years of a pharaoh 's reign , and then every three years )  दौरान उसके reign—more than कोई अन्य  pharaoh .
On his death , he was buried in a tomb in the Valley of the Kings ; his body was later moved to a  royal संचय जहाँ it थी खोजा  in 1881 , and is now on display in the Cairo Museum .
The early part of his reign was focused on building cities , temples and  स्मारक  .
He established the city of Pi-Ramesses in the  nile डेल्टा as उसके नई पूंजी  and main base for his campaigns in Syria .
This city was built on the remains of the city of Avaris , the capital of the Hyksos when they took over  , और थी  the location of the main Temple of Set .
He is also known as Ozymandias in the Greek sources , from a  लिप्यन्तरण into यूनानी of a भाग of रामेसेस  's throne name , , `` Ra 's mighty truth , chosen of Ra '' .
The Texas Rangers are a professional baseball team located in the Dallas-Fort  लायक metroplex  , based in Arlington , Texas .
The Rangers  मताधिकार is फिलहाल  a member of the Western Division of Major League Baseball 's American League .
Since , the Rangers have  निभाई in रेंजरों ballpark  in Arlington in Arlington , Texas .
The team 's  नाम  is borrowed from the famous law enforcement agency of the same name .
The franchise was established in 1961 by the name of the Washington Senators , an expansion team awarded to Washington , D.C. , after the  नगर 's पहला ballclub , the असली वॉशिंगटन सीनेटरों  , moved to Minnesota and became the Twins .
After the season  , the  new Senators moved to Arlington , Texas , and debuted as the Rangers the following spring .
The Texas Rangers Baseball Club has made six appearances in the MLB postseason , all following division championships , in 1996 , 1998 , 1999 , 2010  , 2011 और  2012 .
In 2010 , the Rangers advanced past the Division Series for the first  समय , defeating  the Tampa Bay Rays .
टेक्सास तब brought  home their first American League Pennant after beating the New York Yankees in six games .
In the 2010 World Series , the franchise 's first , the Rangers  गिरी to the सैन फ्रांसिस्को  Giants in five games .
उनके लोन विजय बना उन्हें the पहला टेक्सास टोली to जीत a संसार श्रेणी खेल , the ह्यूस्टन एस्टर्स having महरूम swept in उनके 2005 संसार श्रेणी रूप .
They repeated as  अमरीकी  League champions the following year , then lost the 2011 World Series to the St. Louis Cardinals in seven games .
Gaius Julius Caesar ( , July 100 BC – 15 March 44 BC ) was a Roman general , statesman , Consul  और notable  author of Latin prose .
He played a critical  भूमिका in the कार्यक्रम कि led to the  demise of the Roman Republic and the rise of the Roman Empire .
In 60 BC , Caesar , Crassus and Pompey formed a political alliance that was to dominate Roman  politics for  several years .
Their attempts to amass power through populist tactics were opposed by the conservative elite within the Roman  Senate  , among them Cato the Younger with the frequent support of Cicero .
Caesar 's conquest of Gaul , completed by 51 BC , extended Rome 's  territory to the अंग्रेज़ी चैनल  and the Rhine .
Caesar became the first Roman general to cross both when he built a bridge across the  राइन और conducted the पहला  invasion of Britain .
These achievements granted him unmatched military power and threatened to eclipse the standing of Pompey , who had realigned himself  साथ the सीनेट बाद the मौत  of Crassus in 53 BC .
With the Gallic Wars concluded , the Senate ordered Caesar to lay down his military command and return  to रोम  .
Caesar  refused , और चिह्नित उसके defiance in 49  BC by crossing the Rubicon with a legion , leaving his province and illegally entering Roman territory under arms .
Civil war resulted , from which he emerged as the unrivaled  नेता of  Rome .
After assuming control of  सरकारी , सीज़र began a कार्यक्रम of सोशल और सरकारी  reforms , including the creation of the Julian calendar .
He centralised the bureaucracy of the Republic  और थी आखिरकार  proclaimed `` dictator in perpetuity '' .
But the underlying  राजनैतिक विरोध था नहीं महरूम resolved , और on the ides of कूच ( 15 कूच ) 44 bc , सीज़र थी assassinated by a समूह of सीनेटरों led by मार्कस junius ब्रूटस .
A new series of civil wars broke out , and the constitutional government of the Republic  थी never लौटी  .
Caesar 's adopted heir Octavian , later known as Augustus , rose to sole power  , और the era of  the Roman Empire began .
Much of Caesar 's life is known from his own accounts of his military  अभियान  , and from other contemporary sources , mainly the letters and speeches of Cicero and the historical writings of Sallust .
The later biographies of  सीज़र by suetonius  and Plutarch are also major sources .
सीज़र is deemed to be  one of the greatest military commanders of history .
Linguistic map of Nigeria , Cameroon , and  बेनिन  .
चिह्न  in English , outside the University of Lagos
There are hundreds of  भाषाएं  spoken in Nigeria .
the प्रमुख भाषाएं  are Yoruba , Hausa , Igbo , Edo , Fulfulde , Kanuri , and Ibibio .
The official language of Nigeria , English , the former colonial language , was chosen to facilitate the cultural and linguistic  एकता of the देश  .
English , however , remains an  विशेष बचाना of the  country 's urban elite , and is not widely spoken in rural areas , which comprise three quarters of the countries population .
Nigeria 's linguistic diversity is a microcosm of Africa as a whole , encompassing three major African  भाषाएं परिवारों : afroasiatic ,  Nilo-Saharan , and Niger–Congo .
Nigeria also has several as-yet unclassified languages , such as Cen Tuum , which may represent a relic of an even greater diversity prior  to the स्प्रेड of the वर्तमान भाषा  families .
Daucus carota ( common names include wild carrot , ( UK ) bird 's nest , bishop 's lace , and Queen  ऐनी 's फीता ( उत्तर अमेरिका ) ) is a flowering  plant in the family Apiaceae , native to temperate regions of Europe , southwest Asia and naturalised to North America and Australia .
Domesticated carrots are cultivars of a  subspecies , daucus  carota subsp . sativus .
In the United States , the title of federal judge usually means a judge appointed by the President of the United States and confirmed by the United States Senate pursuant to the Appointments Clause in  आलेख  II of the United States Constitution .
In addition to the Supreme Court of the United States , whose existence and some aspects of whose jurisdiction are beyond the constitutional power of Congress to alter , acts of Congress have established 13 courts of appeals ( also called `` circuit courts '' ) with appellate jurisdiction over different regions of the United States , and 94  संयुक्त राज्य ज़िला  courts .
Every judge appointed to such a court may be categorized as a federal judge ; such positions include the Chief Justice and Associate Justices of the Supreme Court , Circuit Judges of the  न्यायालयों of appeals , और ज़िला न्यायाधीशों of the संयुक्त राज्य ज़िला  courts .
All of these judges described thus far are referred to sometimes as `` Article III judges '' because they exercise the judicial power vested in the judicial branch of the federal government  by Article  III of the U.S. Constitution .
In addition , judges of the Court of International Trade  कसरत न्यायिक शक्ति pursuant  to Article III .
Other judges serving in the federal courts , including magistrate judges and bankruptcy judges , are also sometimes referred to as `` federal  न्यायाधीशों '' ; however , वे हैं neither नियुक्त  by the President nor confirmed by the Senate , and their power derives from Article I instead .
See Article I and  आलेख  III tribunals .
Nelly Kim Furtado ( born December 2 , 1978 ) is  a कनाडाई सिंगर  , songwriter and actress .
She has sold 20 million albums worldwide and more 20 million singles , bringing her total sales to over  40 लाख रिकॉर्ड  around the world .
Furtado  पहला gained कीर्ति साथ  her debut album , Whoa , Nelly !
, जिससे शाखित दो कामयाब singles , `` i 'm जैसे a बर्ड `` और `` फेरे बंद the लाइट `` . ``
I 'm Like A Bird '' won a 2001 Juno  पुरस्कार लिये सिंगल of the साल और  a 2002 Grammy Award for Best Female Pop Vocal Performance .
In 2003 , Furtado released Folklore , which produced three international  singles— `` powerless ( कह कया  You Want ) `` , `` Try `` and `` Força `` .
Three years later she released  ढीला  , a worldwide commercial success .
The album spawned four number-one hits  :  `` Promiscuous `` , `` Maneater `` , `` Say It Right `` and `` All Good Things ( Come to an End ) `` .
After a three-year break , she released  उसके पहला full-length स्पेनी  album , Mi Plan , and Furtado received a Latin Grammy for Best Female Pop Vocal Album .
In 2012 , Furtado 's fourth English-language studio album , The Spirit  अविनाशी थी  released .
Furtado 's work has earned her numerous   awards and accolades , including 2 Grammy Awards , 10 Juno Awards , 3 MuchMusic Video Awards and a star on Canada 's Walk of Fame .
Creatures of the Night  is the दसवाँ  studio album by Kiss .
It is the band 's last album for Casablanca  रिकॉर्ड , the  only label the group had ever recorded for at that point .
The album was dedicated to the memory of Casablanca  संस्थापक और जल्दी चुंबन समर्थक neil bogart  , who had died of cancer during the recording sessions .
It is also the band 's last album recorded with Ace Frehley credited as an official member ( until 1998 's Psycho Circus ) , and its first album with Vinnie Vincent as the  initially uncredited सीसे guitarist  ( Vincent would later be credited , but not featured pictorially on the cover , of 1985 's reissue of the album ) .
टच is a  crucial means of receiving information .
This  फ़ोटो  shows tactile markings identifying stairs for visually impaired people .
The somatosensory system is a diverse sensory system comprising the receptors and processing centres to produce the sensory modalities  ऐसे as टच , तापमान , proprioception  ( body position ) , and nociception ( pain ) .
The sensory receptors cover the skin and epithelia , skeletal  मांसपेशियां , हड्डियों  and joints , internal organs , and the cardiovascular system .
While touch is considered one of the five traditional senses , the impression of touch is  formed इससे अनेक  modalities .
In medicine , the  colloquial पद `` टच '' is प्रायः replaced साथ `` दैहिक  senses '' to better reflect the variety of mechanisms involved .
Somatic senses are sometimes referred to as somesthetic  होश  , with the understanding that somesthesis includes touch , proprioception and ( depending on usage ) also haptic perception .
The system reacts to diverse stimuli using different receptors  : thermoreceptors , nociceptors  , mechanoreceptors and chemoreceptors .
Transmission of information from  the receptors गुजरता via संवेदी  nerves through tracts in the spinal cord and into the brain .
Processing primarily  occurs in the प्राथमिक somatosensory  area in the parietal lobe of the cerebral cortex .
The  cortical  homunculus was devised by Wilder Penfield .
At its simplest , the  प्रणाली works जब कार्यकलाप in a संवेदी  neuron is triggered by a specific stimulus such as heat ; this signal eventually passes to an area in the brain uniquely attributed to that area on the body—this allows the processed stimulus to be felt at the correct location .
The point-to-point mapping of the body surfaces in the brain is called a homunculus and is  अनिवार्य in the सृष्टि  of a body image .
This  brain-surface  ( `` cortical '' ) map is not immutable , however .
नाटकीय शिफ्ट can occur in जवाब to स्ट्रोक or चोट .
Magnolia is a  विशाल genus  of about 210 flowering plant species in the subfamily Magnolioideae of the family Magnoliaceae .
It is  नामित  after French botanist Pierre Magnol .
Magnolia  is an  ancient genus .
Appearing   before bees did , the flowers evolved to encourage pollination by beetles .
To  avoid क्षति  from pollinating beetles , the carpels of Magnolia flowers are extremely tough .
Fossilised specimens of Magnolia acuminata have been found dating to 20 million years ago , and of plants  identifiably belonging to  the Magnoliaceae dating to 95 million years ago .
another पहलू of magnolias कि is माना to represent an ancestral राज्य is कि the पुष्प कली is enclosed in a bract बल्कि than in sepals ; the perianth भाग हैं undifferentiated और पुकारा tepals बल्कि than पृथक sepals  and petals .
Magnolia shares the tepal characteristic with  अनेक अन्य flowering पौधे निकट the आधार of the flowering संयंत्र  lineage such as Amborella and Nymphaea ( as well as with many more recently derived plants such as Lilium ) .
The natural range of Magnolia species is a disjunct distribution ,  साथ a प्रमुख केन्द्र  in east and southeast Asia and a secondary centre in eastern North America , Central America , the West Indies , and some species in South America .
अंगूठा
``  श्वेत क्रिसमस  '' is an Irving Berlin song reminiscing about an old-fashioned Christmas setting .
According to the Guinness Book of World Records , the version sung by Bing Crosby is the  best-selling सिंगल of सब समय , साथ अनुमानित  sales in excess of 50 million copies worldwide .
Accounts  vary as  to when and where Berlin wrote the song .
One story is that he wrote it in 1940 , in warm La Quinta , California ,  जबकि रहकर at the la quinta होटल , a बारंबार  Hollywood retreat also favored by writer-producer Frank Capra , although the Arizona Biltmore also claims the song was written there .
He often stayed up all night writing — he told his  सचिव  , `` Grab your pen and take down this song .
I just wrote the best song  i 've कभी  written — heck , I just wrote the best song that anybody 's ever written ! ''
Cross-country skiing ( or XC skiing ) is a form of ski  touring in जिससे भागीदार propel  themselves across snow-covered terrain using skis and poles .
The activity is popular in many places with large snowfields ,  primarily उत्तरी यूरोपीय ,  Canada , and Alaska .
Cross-country skiing is part of the Nordic skiing sport family ,  जिससे शामिल  ski jumping , Nordic combined ( cross-country skiing and ski jumping ) , Biathlon ( skiing and rifle marksmanship ) and ski-orienteering ( which includes map navigation along snow trails and tracks ) .
Cross-country skiing is the modern style of skiing that  सबसे resembles प्रागैतिहासिक स्कीइंग , विशेषकर  when done in the backcountry .
It is also related  to telemark  skiing .
A use tax in United States is  पूरक to बिक्री कर जिससे अर्थात् , if तुम ख़रीदे a taxable  product/services without paying any Sales tax to vendor , you owe use tax .
You must  स्वः  assess use tax and pay it directly to the state where the products were consumed or services were rendered .
Use tax typically is a tax on consumption but if you buy an  मद ( बगैर  paying sales tax ) and store it in your warehouse initially , use tax applies to that location where goods were stored .
Later on when the final consumption takes place at some other location , you are required to pay the differential of tax  rate to the  jurisdiction of ultimate place of consumption .
इस वाकई  means that you do n't have to pay both Sales Tax as well as Use Tax on one transaction .
It is only one or the other that you are required to pay on purchase of  taxable products/services  .
If vendor does n't charge any Sales tax on its invoice then it is the  दायित्व of  the buyer to self assess Use tax and pay it to the appropriate Jurisdication .
Use Tax is generally charged at the same tax rate  of बिक्री कर लकिन  in some states the tax rate is different .
Use tax is  भी termed as `` खपत  Tax '' or `` Consumer Use Tax '' .
A use tax is a type of excise tax levied in the United  राज्य by numerous राज्य  governments .
it is assessed upon ठोस निजी प्रॉपर्टी खरीदा by a निवासी of the assessing राज्य लिये उपयोग , भंडार , or खपत in कि राज्य ( नहीं लिये पुनर्विक्रय ) , regardless of जहाँ the खरीदें took प्लेस  .
If a  निवासी of a राज्य makes a खरीदें भीतर उसके घर राज्य , पूरा बिक्री कर is सशुल्क at the समय of the लेनदेन .
The use tax  applies जब a निवासी  of the assessing state purchases an item that is not subject to his home state 's sales tax .
Usually , this is due to out-of-state purchases , as  खूब as ordering  items through the mail , by phone , or over the Internet from other states .
The use tax is typically assessed at the same rate as the sales tax that would have been owed ( if any ) had  the वही goods महरूम खरीदा in the राज्य of निवास  .
For example , a resident of Massachusetts , with a 6.25 % `` sales and use tax '' on certain goods and services , purchases non-exempt goods or services in New Hampshire for use ,  भंडार or अन्य खपत  in Massachusetts .
Under New Hampshire law , the New  Hampshire vendor  collects no sales taxes on the goods , but the Massachusetts purchaser/user must still pay 6.25 % of the sales price directly to the Department of Revenue in Massachusetts as a use tax .
If the same goods are purchased in a US state that does collect sales tax for such goods at time of purchase , whatever taxes were  सशुल्क by the क्रेता to कि राज्य can be deducted  ( as a tax credit ) from the 6.25 % owed for subsequent use , storage or consumption in Massachusetts .
With few exceptions , no state 's vendors will charge the native state 's sales tax on goods shipped out of state , meaning all  goods ordered इससे out-of-state हैं essentially  free of sales tax .
The purchaser is therefore required to declare and pay the use  कर to उसके  home state on these ordered goods .
The  assessing क्षेत्राधिकार  may make the use tax payable annually , but some states require a monthly payment .
For example , where a Vermont resident has not paid at least 6 % sales tax on  प्रॉपर्टी brought in लिये उपयोग in the राज्य , वर्मांट विधि  requires filing a tax return ( Form SU-452 and payment ) by the 20th day of the month following non-exempt purchases to avoid a $ 50 late fee , a 5 % penalty per month , to a maximum of 25 % , plus statutory interest on the unpaid tax and penalties .
Typical exemptions include purchases by charitable non-profit organizations or governmental agencies , purchases for resale in commerce , and  purchases via `` कैज़ुअल बिक्री  '' by individuals not in the ordinary course of business .
Also note that there are thousands of tax jurisdictions in the U.S. and many  have ever-changing  lists of specific types of goods and services that are not taxable .
As an illustration of the complexities : a 2006 Massachusetts law requires payment of tax on `` pre-written '' ( not custom ) software purchased and  डाउनलोड over the अंतरजाल लिये संस्थापना  and use in Massachusetts , regardless of where it originates .
However ,  the वास्तविक उपयोग of the वही तन्त्र डाउनलोड  by a Massachusetts resident to a server in another state remains a non-taxed `` service '' .
In contrast , Arkansas generally does not tax anything delivered over the Internet ( such as downloaded software or music ) , except VoIP  जिससे is specifically पारिभाषित as taxable `` दूरसंचार  services '' .
Software ( pre-written or custom ) `` delivered thru a tangible medium '' ( i.e. , on disk ) in Arkansas is taxable even if ordered online , except `` custom software  लिये a particular ग्राहक  '' which is non-taxable `` programming services '' even if delivered on a disk .
In most cases , this complexity is part  of the underlying बिक्री कर कानून ; लकिन जबकि  a brick-and-mortar store has to deal with only the sales tax laws of its own location , remote sellers have to deal with the use tax laws of many jurisdictions—up to every US state and locality that assesses them , if the company has a presence or `` nexus '' in every state ( as large `` brick-and-mortar '' sellers like Wal-Mart and Best Buy do ) .
In medicine , pulmonary hypertension ( PH ) is an  बढ़ाएँ  of blood pressure in the pulmonary artery , pulmonary vein , or pulmonary capillaries , together known as the lung vasculature , leading to shortness of breath , dizziness , fainting , and other symptoms , all of which are exacerbated by exertion .
Pulmonary hypertension can be a severe disease with a markedly decreased exercise   tolerance and heart failure .
It was first identified by Dr. Ernst  वोन romberg  in 1891 .
According to  the सबसे हाल वर्गीकरण , it can be एक  of five different types : arterial , venous , hypoxic , thromboembolic or miscellaneous .
सही
सही
Sanuk , a division of Deckers  बाहरी निगम  , is a footwear brand based in Southern California .
Sanuk , the Thai word for fun , was founded by Southern  कैलिफ़ोर्निया देशी जेफ़ kelley जब  he started making sandals out of indoor-outdoor carpet .
The first product created was green carpeted and entitled the `` Fur Real '' after one shop owner asked  if the विलक्षणता चन्दन थी `` लिये रियल  . ''
The Fur Real first became a runaway hit through boutique stores and not the intended  लहरे दुकानें  .
The novelty act was followed up by a sandal wrapped in wire mesh , a  तेंदुआ  print version , and styles made out of a poncho material in a variety of colors .
Sanuk has grown to include style options for men , women  और  youth and is distributed across the United States and in over 50 countries throughout Europe , Asia , South America and Australia .
Sanuk centers itself around a positive  जीवनशैली वकालत  the slogan , `` Smile , Pass it on ! `` .
In computer science , array programming languages ( also known as  वेक्टर or multidimensional भाषाएं ) generalize  operations on scalars to apply transparently to vectors , matrices , and higher dimensional arrays .
Array programming primitives concisely  एक्स्प्रेस व्यापक विचार परिचय  data manipulation .
The level of conciseness can be dramatic in certain cases : it is not uncommon to find array programming language one-liners that require more than  a युगल of पृष्ठों  of Java code .
APL , designed by Ken Iverson , was the first programming language to  provide  array programming capabilities .
The mnemonic APL refers to the title of his seminal book `` A Programming  भाषा '' और नहीं to arrays प्रति se . iverson 's योगदान to rigor और स्पष्टता  was probably more important than the simple extension of dimensions to functions .
In the United  राज्य an annuity अनुबंध is निर्मित जब  an insured party , usually an individual , pays a life insurance company a single premium that will later be distributed back to the insured party over time .
Annuity contracts traditionally provide a guaranteed distribution of income over time ,  ऐसे as via फिक्स्ड भुगतान  , until the death of the person or persons named in the contract or until a final date , whichever comes first .
However , the majority of modern annuity customers use annuities only to accumulate funds free of income and  पूंजी gains कर और to बाद लो lump-sum withdrawals बगैर using  the guaranteed-income-for-life feature .
President  बराक ओबामा  .
बराक ओबामा साथ  his first Supreme Court nominee , Sonia Sotomayor .
following is a सूची of सब  United States federal judges appointed by President Barack Obama during his presidency .
As of April 30 , 2013 , 187 Obama nominees to Article III judgeships have been confirmed by the United States Senate , namely two  justices to the परम् अदालत of the संयुक्त राज्य , 35 न्यायाधीशों  to the United States courts of appeals and 150 judges to the United States district courts .
25 further nominations are  फिलहाल  awaiting Senate action .
There are currently 16 vacancies on the United  राज्य न्यायालयों of appeals , 67 vacancies on the संयुक्त राज्य  district courts and 22 additional federal judiciary vacancies that are anticipated to occur before the end of Obama 's second term .
Obama has not made any recess appointments to the  संघीय न्यायालयों  .
Obama has made two nominations to the United States  अदालत of  International Trade , an Article III tribunal .
Obama also designated sitting judge Emily C. Hewitt of the  संयुक्त राज्य अदालत  of Federal Claims , an Article I court , to be Chief Judge of that court .
This is a list of airports in Mexico ,  sorted  by location .
Mexico has about 1,834 airports , ranking 2nd in number of airports in North America ,  और 3rd in the संसार  .
Only major National and International Airports  हैं  shown .
Agency debt also known as an Agency bond is a security  , प्रायः a बंध , जारी  by a U.S. government-sponsored agency .
The offerings of these agencies are backed but not  गारंटी by the us सरकारी  since the agencies are private entities .
कुछ prominent issuers  of these securities are Student Loan Marketing Association ( Sallie Mae ) , Federal National Mortgage Association ( Fannie Mae ) and Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation ( Freddie Mac ) .
Agency securities are usually exempt from  राज्य और  local taxes , but not federal tax .
Agency debt is  भी पुकारा  an agency security .
The Susquehanna Steam Electric Station ,  a  boiling water reactor .
The reactors are located inside the rectangular containment buildings towards the front of the  कूलिंग मीनारें  .
Three nuclear-powered American warships , ( top to bottom ) nuclear cruisers  uss bainbridge और uss  Long Beach with USS Enterprise the first nuclear-powered aircraft carrier in 1964 .
Crew members are spelling out Einstein 's  mass-energy equivalence सूत्र  E = mc2 on the flight deck .
The Russian nuclear-powered icebreaker NS Yamal on a 1994 joint  expedition साथ  the NSF .
Nuclear power is the use of sustained nuclear fission   to generate heat and electricity .
Nuclear power plants provided about 5.7 % of the  संसार  's energy and 13 % of the world 's electricity , in 2012 .
In 2013 , the  iaea रपट कि  there are 437 operational nuclear power reactors ( although not all are producing electricity ) , in 31 countries .
In addition , there are  लगभग 140 नवल  vessels using nuclear propulsion in operation , powered by some 180 reactors .
There is   an ongoing debate about the use of nuclear energy .
Proponents , such as the World Nuclear  संघ , the iaea और पर्यावरणविद लिये नाभिकीय  Energy contend that nuclear power is a sustainable energy source that reduces carbon emissions .
Opponents , such as Greenpeace International and NIRS , believe that nuclear power poses many threats to  लोगों और  the environment .
Nuclear power plant accidents include the Chernobyl disaster ( 1986 ) , Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster ( 2011 ) , and the Three  मील द्वीप दुर्घटना  ( 1979 ) .
वहीँ  have also been some nuclear-powered submarine mishaps .
Research into safety improvements is continuing  और नाभिकीय संलयन  , believed to be safer , may be used in the future .
As of 2012 , according to the IAEA ,  विश्वव्यापी वहीँ यहूद 68 सिविल नाभिकीय  power reactors under construction in 15 countries .
In the US the licenses of almost half its reactors have been extended to 60 years , and plans to build another dozen are under   serious consideration .
However , Japan 's 2011 Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster prompted a rethink of  नाभिकीय उर्जा नीति in अनेक  countries .
Germany decided to close all its reactors by 2022 , and  इटली रै  banned nuclear power .
Following Fukushima , the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Energy Agency halved its estimate of additional nuclear generating capacity to be built by 2035 .
फोटोग्राफ  of the Berlin Wall taken from the West side .
The Wall  थी निर्मित  in 1961 to prevent East Germans from fleeing from Communism .
It was an iconic symbol of the Cold War and its fall in 1989 marked   the end of the War .
The Cold War , often dated from 1947 to 1991 , was a sustained state of political and military tension between powers in the Western Bloc , dominated by the United States with NATO among  इसके allies , और शक्तियां  in the Eastern Bloc , dominated by the Soviet Union along with the Warsaw Pact .
This began after the success of their temporary wartime alliance against Nazi Germany , leaving the USSR and the US as two  superpowers साथ  profound economic and political differences .
A neutral faction arose with the Non-Aligned Movement founded by Egypt , India , and Yugoslavia ; this faction rejected  संघ साथ either the us-led  West or the Soviet-led East .
The Cold War was so named because the two major powers—each  possessing नाभिकीय हथियार  and thereby threatened with mutual assured destruction —never met in direct military combat .
Instead , in their struggle for global influence they engaged in  जारी मनोवैज्ञानिक warfare और  in regular indirect confrontations through proxy wars .
Cycles of relative calm would  be followed  by high tension , which could have led to world war .
The tensest times were during the Berlin Blockade ( 1948–1949 ) , the Korean War ( 1950–1953 ) , the Suez Crisis ( 1956 ) ,  the बर्लिन संकट of 1961 , the क्यूबन मिसाइल संकट ( 1962 ) , the वियतनाम युद्ध ( 1959–1975  ) , the Yom Kippur War ( 1973 ) , the Soviet war in Afghanistan ( 1979–1989 ) , the Soviet downing of Korean Air Lines Flight 007 ( 1983 ) , and the `` Able Archer '' NATO military exercises ( 1983 ) .
The conflict was expressed through military coalitions , strategic  conventional फ़ोर्स deployments , extensive  aid to client states , espionage , massive propaganda campaigns , conventional and nuclear arms races , appeals to neutral nations , rivalry at sports events ( in particular the Olympics ) , and technological competitions such as the Space Race .
The US and USSR became involved in political and military conflicts in  the तीसरा संसार देशों of लैटिन अमेरिका  , Africa , the Middle East , and Southeast Asia .
To alleviate the risk of a potential nuclear war , both sides  sought राहत of  political tensions through détente in the 1970s .
In the 1980s , the United States increased diplomatic , military , and economic pressures on the  सोवियत  Union , at a time when the communist state was already suffering from economic stagnation .
In the mid-1980s , the new Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev introduced the liberalizing reforms  of perestroika ( `` reorganization  '' , 1987 ) and glasnost ( `` openness '' , ca . 1985 ) .
Pressures for national  स्वतंत्रता grew  stronger in Eastern Europe , especially Poland .
They reached a breaking  पाइंट जब गोर्बाचेव refused to  use Soviet troops to support the faltering government of East Germany in late 1989 .
Within  सप्ताह सब  the satellite states broke free from Moscow in a peaceful wave of revolutions ( there was some violence in Romania ) .
The pressures escalated inside the Soviet Union , where Communism  गिरी और the ussr थी formally  dissolved in late 1991 .
The  संयुक्त राज्य  remained as the world 's only superpower .
The Cold War and its events have left a significant legacy , and it is often referred to in popular culture , especially in media featuring  विषयवस्तु of espionage और the threat  of nuclear warfare .
Pikes Peak State Park is a state park of  आयोवा , यूएसए , featuring a bluff  overlooking the Upper Mississippi River opposite the confluence of the Wisconsin River .
The park is operated by the Iowa Department of  प्राकृतिक संसाधन  .
It is nearly a thousand acres  (  4 km2 ) in extent .
The nearest city is McGregor ,  आयोवा  .
Iowa Highway 76  लगभग defines  its northern boundary .
It gets its name from the Iowa incarnation of Pikes Peak , a particularly high point overlooking the gorge of the Upper  मिसिसिपी , और जैसे pikes शिखर in  Colorado , is named for Zebulon Pike .
There are hiking trails , campgrounds and RV  सुविधाएं  .
Mountain bikes are  permitted  in certain portions of the park .
Aside from recreational development , the land in the park was never cleared and to a large extent  remains as  it was before the advent of white settlement .
It is part of a larger complex of parks , reserves and refuges which include Effigy Mounds National Monument , the various components of the Yellow River State Forest , the enormous Upper Mississippi River National Wildlife and Fish Refuge and much smaller  ,  much less well known Driftless Area National Wildlife Refuge .
The Northeast Iowa Legacy Trail System is undergoing development ,  और होगा  connect elements of these sites .
Zac Brown Band is an American country/folk band based in Atlanta  , जॉर्जिया  .
The  लाइनअप consists of  Zac Brown ( lead vocals , guitar ) , Jimmy De Martini ( fiddle , vocals ) , John Driskell Hopkins ( bass guitar , vocals ) , Coy Bowles ( guitar , keyboards ) , Chris Fryar ( drums ) , Clay Cook ( guitar , keyboards , mandolin , steel guitar , vocals ) , and Daniel de los Reyes ( percussion ) .
The band has toured throughout the United States ,   including a slot on the 2009 and 2010 Bonnaroo Music Festival .
They have also recorded five studio albums , and charted nine Number One singles on the Billboard country charts : `` Chicken Fried `` , `` Toes `` , `` Highway 20 Ride `` , `` Free `` , `` As She 's Walking Away `` , `` Colder Weather `` , `` Knee Deep `` , `` Keep Me In Mind ``  , और `` अलविदा in उसके आँखें `` in जोड to the singles `` whatever it is `` और  `` No Hurry `` , which peaked at number 2 on the same chart .
Talk  रेडियो is a रेडियो  format containing discussion about topical issues .
Most   shows are regularly hosted by a single individual , and often feature interviews with a number of different guests .
Talk radio typically includes an element of listener  भागीदारी , प्रायः by  broadcasting live conversations between the host and listeners who `` call in '' ( usually via telephone ) to the show .
Listener contributions are usually screened by a show 's producer ( s ) in order to maximize audience  ब्याज और , in the मामला  of commercial talk radio , attract advertisers .
Generally , the shows are organized into segments , each separated by a  ठहराना लिये विज्ञापन ; however , in  public or non-commercial radio , music is sometimes played in place of commercials to separate the program segments .
Variations of talk radio  शामिल रूढ़िवादी  talk , hot talk , liberal talk and sports talk .
While talk radio has historically  महरूम संबद्ध साथ am/fm , starting around 2005 the प्रौद्योगिकी  for Internet-based talk-radio shows became cost effective in the form of podcasts .
Now , it is possible for an individual to use a variety of services to host an Internet-based talk-radio show  बगैर carriage by a परंपरागत रेडियो  station .
In addition  TV  programming from talk and news outlets such as BBC , CNN , Bloomberg and Fox are now often available expanding the world of talk radio further .
Talk radio listening is now enjoyed not only on radios , but a wide variety of  अन्य डिवाइस और सेवाएं सहित  PCs using iTunes , station directories such as Tunein , show directory smartphones with apps such as Stitcher .
Hippa is a genus of decapod crustaceans in the family Hippidae ,  containing the following  species:
Hippa adactyla  fabricius , 1787
Hippa  admirabilis  ( Thallwitz , 1892 )
Hippa  alcimede  ( De Man , 1902 )
hippa australis  Hale , 1927
Hippa  carcineutes holthuis  & Manning , 1970
hippa celaeno  ( de Man , 1896 )
Hippa  granulatus (  Borradaile , 1904 )
Hippa hirtipes (  दाना ,  1852 )
Hippa indica Haig , Murugan & Balakrishnan  नायर , 1986
Hippa marmorata  (  Hombron & Jacquinot , 1846 )
Hippa ovalis (  A. milne-edwards  , 1862 )
Hippa picta ( Heller  , 1861  )
Hippa strigillata  (  Stimpson , 1860 )
hippa testudinaria  ( Herbst , 1791 )
Hippa  truncatifrons  ( Miers , 1878 )
It is closely  सम्बन्धित  to the genus Emerita , and species have often been transferred between the two genera .
Jakarta ( ) , officially known as the  खास पूंजी प्रदेश of  Jakarta ( ) , is the capital and largest city of Indonesia .
Located on the northwest coast of Java , Jakarta is the country 's economic , cultural and political  केन्द्र , और साथ a जनसांख्यिकी of 10,187,595  as of November 2011 , it is the most populous city in Indonesia and in Southeast Asia , and is the thirteenth most populated city in the world .
The official metropolitan area , known as Jabodetabek ( a name formed by combining  the आरंभिक syllables of जकार्ता , bogor , depok  , Tangerang and Bekasi ) , is the second largest in the world , yet the metropolis 's suburbs still continue beyond it .
Jakarta is listed as a global city in the 2008 Globalization  और संसार शहरों पढ़ाई समूह और संजाल ( gawc  ) research .
and  रै  an area of .
This area has population of well over 28 million , making it one of the world 's largest conurbations in terms of  क्रमांक of  inhabitants .
In 2011 ,  जकार्ता क्रमित  17th among the world 's 200 largest cities , a jump from its 2007 ranking of 171 .
Jakarta has grown more  rapidly than kuala lumpur , बीजिंग  and Bangkok .
Established in  the चौथी सदी , the नगर became  an important trading port for the Kingdom of Sunda .
It was the de facto capital of the Dutch East Indies ( when it was known as Batavia  ) और रै जारी as the पूंजी  of Indonesia since the country 's independence was declared in 1945 .
The  नगर is the सीट  of the ASEAN Secretariat .
Jakarta is served by the Soekarno–Hatta International Airport , Halim Perdanakusuma International Airport , and Tanjung Priok Harbour ; it is connected by several intercity and commuter railways  , और परोसा by अनेक बस  lines running on reserved busways .
A typical home air  कंडीशनिंग  window unit .
Air  कंडीशनिंग is the  process of altering the properties of air ( primarily temperature and humidity ) to more favourable conditions .
More generally , air conditioning can refer to any form of technological cooling , heating , ventilation  ,  or disinfection that modifies the condition of air .
An air conditioner ( often referred to as air con , AC or A/C ,  और नहीं to be उलझन साथ the संक्षिप्त लिये प्रत्यावर्ती वर्तमान ) is a प्रमुख or घर appliance , प्रणाली ,  or mechanism designed to change the air temperature and humidity within an area ( used for cooling and sometimes heating depending on the air properties at a given time ) .
The cooling is typically done using a simple refrigeration cycle , but sometimes evaporation is used , commonly for comfort cooling in  इमारतें  and motor vehicles .
In construction , a  पूरा प्रणाली of  heating , ventilation and air conditioning is referred to as `` HVAC `` .
`` 6 Foot 7 Foot '' ( also styled as  `` 6'7  '' ) is a song by American rapper Lil Wayne featuring label mate , Cory Gunz .
It is  लिया इससे  his ninth studio album , Tha Carter IV ( 2011 ) .
It was  officially released  on iTunes on December 16 , 2010 .
It was produced by `` A Milli  ``  producer Bangladesh .
The song samples ``  day-o ( the banana  Boat Song ) `` by Harry Belafonte .
DC Talk ( styled  as dc  Talk ) , is a Grammy -winning Christian rap trio .
The group was formed in Lynchburg , Virginia in 1987  by टोबी  McKeehan , Michael Tait , and Kevin Max Smith .
They have released five major studio albums together : DC Talk ( 1989 ) , Nu Thang ( 1990 ) , Free   at Last ( 1992 ) , Jesus Freak ( 1995 ) , and Supernatural ( 1998 ) .
In 2002 , the Encyclopedia of Contemporary Christian Music called DC Talk ``  the सबसे लोकप्रिय  overtly Christian act of all time . ''
In 2000 , the group released an EP titled Solo which  contained दो सोलो गीतों  from each member .
Since that time , DC Talk has been on an indefinite hiatus , and the three band members have  प्रत्येक led सोलो करियर  .
They have performed and recorded individual songs together several times during the 2000s , although  the समूह never  officially reunited or disbanded .
the  group 's musical style evolved significantly throughout their career .
Their first two releases  , dc बात और nu  Thang , were of the hip hop genre .
DC Talk 's third  एल्बम , फ़्री at पिछला , भी मुख्यतः  took influence from the hip hop style , although their music began taking on a rock sound .
The trio 's last two albums , Jesus Freak and Supernatural  ,  were predominantly pop rock .
The Bible is a compilation of many shorter books written at different times and later assembled  into the biblical  canon .
All but the shortest of these books have been  विभाजित into अध्याय , generally a पेज or so in लंबाई  , since the early 13th century .
Since the mid-16th century , each chapter has been further divided into `` verses ''  of a few छोटी लाइनों  or sentences .
Sometimes a sentence spans more than one verse , as in the case of ,  और sometimes वहीँ  is more than one sentence in a single verse , as in the case of .
As the chapter and verse divisions were not part of  the असली ग्रन्थ , वे रूप  part of the paratext of the Bible .
the यहूदी विभाजन  of the Hebrew text differ at various points from those used by Christians .
For instance , in Jewish  परंपरा , the ascriptions to अनेक ज़बूर हैं  regarded as independent verses , making 116 more verses , whereas the established Christian practice is to count and number each Psalm ascription together with the first verse following it .
Some chapter divisions also occur in different places , e.g . in Hebrew Bibles is numbered as in Christian  अनुवाद  .
An index   ( plural : indexes ) is a list of words or phrases ( 'headings ' ) and associated pointers ( 'locators ' ) to where useful material relating to that heading can be found in a document .
In a traditional back-of-the-book index the headings  होगा शामिल names of लोगों , स्थान और कार्यक्रम , और  concepts selected by a person as being relevant and of interest to a possible reader of the book .
The pointers are typically page numbers , paragraph  संख्याएँ or खण्ड  numbers .
In  a पुस्तकालयों  catalog the words are authors , titles , subject headings , etc. , and the pointers are call numbers .
Internet search engines , such as Google , and full text searching help provide access to information but are not as selective as an index , as they provide non-relevant links , and may miss  प्रासंगिक सूचना if it is नहीं phrased in exactly the  way they expect .
In United States financial regulation , a suspicious activity report ( or SAR ) is a report  बना by a वित्तीय संस्था to the वित्तीय  Crimes Enforcement Network ( FinCEN ) , an agency of the United States Department of the Treasury , regarding suspicious or potentially suspicious activity .
फेसबुक  on the Ad-tech 2010
फेसबुक is an ऑनलाइन सोशल  networking service , whose name stems from the colloquial name for the book given to students at the start of the academic year by some university administrations in the United States to help students get to know each other .
It  थी संस्थापित in फ़रवरी 2004 by चिह्नित zuckerberg साथ उसके कॉलेज  roommates and fellow Harvard University students Eduardo Saverin , Andrew McCollum , Dustin Moskovitz and Chris Hughes .
The website 's membership was initially limited by the founders to Harvard  विद्यार्थी , लकिन  was expanded to other colleges in the Boston area , the Ivy League , and Stanford University .
It gradually added support for students at various other universities before opening to high school students ,  और आखिरकार to anyone  aged 13 and over .
Facebook now allows any users who  घोषित themselves to  be at least 13 years old to become registered users of the site .
Users must register before using the site , after which they may create a personal profile , add other users as friends , and exchange messages , including automatic notifications when they update  उनके प्रोफ़ाइल  .
Additionally , users may join common-interest user groups , organized by workplace , school or college , or other characteristics  , and categorize  their friends into lists such as `` People From Work '' or `` Close Friends '' .
As of September 2012 , Facebook has over one  अरब  active users .
According  to a may 2011 उपभोक्ता  Reports survey , there are 7.5 million children under 13 with accounts and 5 million under 10 , violating the site 's terms of service .
In May 2005 , Accel partners invested $ 12.7 million in Facebook , and Jim Breyer added $  1 लाख of उसके अपना  money to the pot .
A January 2009 Compete.com study ranked Facebook as the most used social networking service by  विश्वव्यापी मासिक क्रियाशील  users .
Entertainment Weekly included the site on its end-of-the-decade `` best-of '' list , saying , `` How on earth did we stalk our exes , remember our co-workers ' birthdays , bug our friends , and play a rousing   game of Scrabulous before Facebook ? ''
Critics , such as Facebook Detox , state that Facebook has turned into a national obsession in the United  राज्य , resulting  in vast amounts of time lost and encouraging narcissism .
Quantcast estimates  फेसबुक रै 138.9  million monthly unique U.S. visitors in May 2011 .
According to Social Media Today , in April 2010 an estimated 41.6 % ( 129.5 million  ) of  the U.S. population had a Facebook account .
Nevertheless , Facebook 's market growth started to stall in some  regions , साथ  the site losing 7 million active users in the United States and Canada in May 2011 .
Facebook eventually filed for an initial public offering on February 1 , 2012  ,  and was headquartered in Menlo Park , California .
Facebook Inc.  began selling  stock to the public and trading on the NASDAQ on May 18 , 2012 .
सल्फोनेमाइड कार्यात्मक  group
Hydrochlorothiazide is a  सल्फोनेमाइड और  a thiazide .
Furosemide is a  सल्फोनेमाइड , लकिन  not a thiazide .
Sulfonamide or sulphonamide is the basis  of अनेक समूह  of drugs .
The original antibacterial sulfonamides ( sometimes called sulfa drugs or sulpha drugs ) are  सिंथेटिक रोगाणुरोधी  agents that contain the sulfonamide group .
Some sulfonamides are also devoid of  जीवाणुरोधी कार्यकलाप , e.g.  , the anticonvulsant sultiame .
The sulfonylureas and thiazide diuretics are newer  ड्रग समूह आधारित  on the antibacterial sulfonamides .
Sulfa allergies are common , hence  medications  containing sulfonamides are prescribed carefully .
It is important to make a distinction  between sulfa दवाएँ  and other sulfur-containing drugs and additives , such as sulfates and sulfites , which are chemically unrelated to the sulfonamide group , and do not cause the same hypersensitivity reactions seen in the sulfonamides .
This is a  सूची of वर्ण  from George Lopez .
Domestic geese ( Anser anser domesticus or Anser cygnoides ) are domesticated grey geese (  either ग्रेलैग geese or  Swan Geese ) kept as poultry for their meat , eggs , and down feathers since ancient times .
30 Seconds to Mars is an American rock band from Los  एंजिल्स , formed in 1998  .
Since 2007 , the band has consisted of actor Jared Leto ( lead vocals , rhythm guitar , songwriter )  , शैनन leto ( ड्रम , percussion  ) and Tomo Miličević ( lead guitar , keyboards ) .
Following the departure of  मैट wachter ( अभी of  Angels & Airwaves ) in 2007 , Tim Kelleher became the bassist for the group , performing live only with both Jared and Miličević recording bass for studio recordings , while Braxton Olita ( keyboards ) was added to the touring lineup in 2009 .
Previously , the group also featured guitarists Solon Bixler ( now of Great  उत्तरी ) और केविन ड्रेक  ( now of Polaroid Kiss ) .
To date , 30 Seconds to Mars have released three studio albums – 30 Seconds to Mars ( 2002 ) , A Beautiful Lie ( 2005 ) , This Is War ( 2009 ) and three extended plays – AOL Sessions Undercover ( 2007 ) , To the Edge of the Earth ( 2008 ) , and MTV Unplugged : 30  सेकेंड to मंगल ( 2011  ) .
30 Seconds to Mars ' music has been associated mostly with neo-prog , progressive metal and post-grunge  , लकिन वे have  also included emo , screamo , space rock and synthrock into their music .
They have been compared  to गुलाबी floyd ( जो यहूद an  influence on their work ) and Tool because of their use of philosophical and spiritual lyrics , concept albums and their use of experimental music .
A Christmas Story is a 1983  अमरीकी क्रिसमस कॉमेडी फिल्मी आधारित on the छोटी कहानियां और semi-fictional  anecdotes of author and raconteur Jean Shepherd , based on his book In God We Trust , All Others Pay Cash , with some elements derived from Wanda Hickey 's Night of Golden Memories .
it थी निर्देशित  by Bob Clark .
The film has since become a holiday classic  और is दिखाया  numerous times on television during the Christmas season on the network TBS , often in a 24-hour marathon .
in 2012 , the फिल्मी थी चयनित लिये संरक्षण  in the National Film Registry by the Library of Congress for being `` culturally , historically , or aesthetically significant '' .
A Joe 's Crab Shack branch in San Diego  ,  CA .
The building was initially a  rowing क्लबों और थी  later converted into the restaurant .
Joe 's  केकड़ा shack is an अमरीकी  chain of beach-themed seafood casual dining restaurants owned by Ignite Restaurant Group .
संस्थापित in ह्यूस्टन  , Texas , the restaurant now operates locations all across the United States of America .
It  serves seafood  and American cuisine .
The restaurants also  have a तोहफा दूकान कि बिकता facetious  t-shirts featuring phrases advertising Joe 's seafood choices .
It is based in Houston  , टेक्सास  .
New York City Cruise Liner Terminal in Hell 's Kitchen  at 52nd गली  .
The New York  Passenger Ship Terminal (  also known as the Luxury Liner Row or Manhattan Cruise Terminal or New York Cruise Terminal ) is a terminal for ocean-going passenger ships on Manhattan 's west side .
The  टर्मिनल consists of उत्तर  River Piers 88 , 90 , 92 and 94 on the Hudson River between West 46th and West 54th Street .
( As a general rule , pier numbers in Manhattan can be  संकल्पित by adding 40 to the सम्बन्धित  cross-street . )
Ships now dock at  पियर 88  , 90 and 92 .
बांध 94 on the उत्तर पक्ष is अभी प्रयुक्त लिये प्रदर्शनी स्पेस .
Pier 86 , once used by United  राज्य लाइनों , is अभी घर  to the USS Intrepid .
In 2003 ,  the  terminal handled 900,000 passengers .
the नगर is forecasting  that 1.5 million will use the terminal by 2017 .
The piers are long  और  apart .
They were  पहला समाप्त in  1935 to replace the Chelsea Piers as the city 's luxury liner terminal .
the नई  terminal was built to handle bigger ships that had outgrown the Chelsea Piers .
The piers were renovated in 1970 and are  फिलहाल  undergoing another $ 150 million renovation .
The renovated plans call for  it  to handle three large ships at a time .
In doing renovations , the city is also considering  decommissioning बांध  92 .
लोगो of  the New York Cruise Terminal.For
decades the terminal was  the  only ocean-going passenger terminal in New York harbor .
With an upsurge in cruise ship traffic and the terminal 's ability to handle comfortably only three large ships at a time , two new terminals have opened in the harbor — the Cape Liberty Cruise Port opened in 2004 in Bayonne , New Jersey ( used by Royal Caribbean Cruise Line , Celebrity Cruises  और azamara क्रूज़ ) , और the ब्रुकलीन क्रूज टर्मिनल ( प्रयुक्त by the महारानी मरियम 2 और अन्य जहाजों  of the Carnival Corporation cruise brands ) opened in 2006 in Brooklyn , New York .
The West Side Highway takes a small jog east from the piers to below West 42nd Street because when the terminal  थी निर्मित जमीन था to be  taken away from Manhattan to allow for longer piers .
The US Army Corps of Engineers , who control the waterfront dimension , would not extend the pierhead line farther into the river , so  the नगर विस्तारित  the pier by cutting away at the land .
The city earlier  किया इस लिये  the Chelsea Piers ; however in Chelsea only landfill was taken away .
At the Passenger  टर्मिनल  actual Manhattan schist was taken away .
From downstream in the  नदी
Many major passenger ships have docked there , including the RMS Queen Mary 2 and Freedom of the Seas , before  the  Brooklyn and Bayonne terminals opened .
The SS Normandie  caught आग और  subsequently capsized at its Pier 88 berth during World War II .
The Normandie , renamed  uss lafayette  , lies capsized in the frozen mud at Pier 88 in the winter of 1942
Norwegian Cruise Line 's soon to be newest ship the  नॉर्वेजियाई  Breakaway will sail year-round out of the New York Passenger Ship Terminal .
The city will spend $ 4 million to renovate and upgrade the cruise  टर्मिनल  to accommodate the ship .
This is an overview of the regular , recurring  , और अन्य वर्ण of  the TV series NCIS .
Christian right is a term used in the United States to describe right-wing  ईसाई राजनैतिक समूह कि हैं characterized  by their strong support of socially conservative policies .
Christian conservatives principally seek to apply their  समझना of the शिक्षाओं of christianity  to politics and public policy by proclaiming the value of those teachings and/or by seeking to use those teachings to influence law and public policy .
In  the u.S. , the ईसाई सही is an अनौपचारिक गठबन्धन formed around a कोर of धर्मान्तरण protestants कि draws `` support इससे नीतियां रूढ़िवादी catholics , यहूदियों , mormons , और occasionally secularists '' जो share उनके लक्ष्य .
The movement has its roots in American  राजनीती going  back as far the 1940s and has been especially influential since the 1970s .
Their influence draws , in part , from grassroots activism as  खूब as उनके फ़ोकस on सोशल मुद्दे और क्षमता  to motivate the electorate around those issues .
The Christian  सही  is notable today for advancing socially conservative positions on issues including school prayer , stem cell research , homosexuality , contraception , abortion , and pornography .
Although the Christian right is usually associated with the U.S. , the movement has been a key factor in the politics of Canada  , the नीदरलैंड्स , उत्तरी  Ireland and Australia , among others .
Far East Movement ( stylized as Far★East Movement or abbreviated FM  ) is an  American hip hop band quartet based in Los Angeles .
The group formed in 2003 and consists of Kev Nish ( Kevin Nishimura ) , Prohgress ( James Roh ) , J-Splif (  jae choung ) , और  DJ Virman ( Virman Coquia ) .
दूर ईस्ट गति  's first claim to fame was their song `` Round Round '' featured in the Hollywood movie , The Fast and the Furious : Tokyo Drift , and its subsequent soundtrack , video game and DVD .
Since `` Round Round '' , the group  रै महरूम  featured on various network shows including , , Entourage , Gossip Girl , and Finishing the Game ( a featured film at Sundance 2007 ) .
Their single `` Like a G6 `` hit number one on the Billboard Hot 100 Chart and on  itunes as खूब in  late October 2010 .
Far East Movement also has the distinction of being the first Asian-American group to  earn  a # 1 hit on the Billboard Hot 100 in the United States .
LR44 is the IEC designation for an alkaline 1.5 volt button cell , commonly used in small LED flashlights , digital thermometers ,  calculators , calipers , घड़ियाँ , घड़ियाँ , खिलौने  and laser pointers .
LR44  क्षारीय  cell
The battery nomenclature is defined by  the  International Electrotechnical Commission ( IEC ) in its 60086-3 standard ( Primary batteries , part 3 Watch batteries ) .
The letter L indicates the electrochemical system used ; a zinc negative  एलेक्ट्रोड  , manganese dioxide depolarizer and positive electrode , and an alkaline electrolyte .
R44 indicates a  गोलाकार कोशिका 11.4±0.2 mm व्यास  and 5.2±0.2 mm height as defined by the IEC standard 60086 .
Manufacturers have their own part  संख्याएँ लिये आईईसी प्रकार lr44  batteries including:
LR44 , LR44G ,  lr44gd  , LR44H
LR1154 , L1154 , L1154C ,  l1154f , l1154g  , L1154H
6135-99-792-8475  ( NSN )
1166a
AG13 , A613 , AG14  ,  AG-14 , G13A , G13-A
157  ,  303 , 357
A76 , GDA76 , GP76A , GPA7 , GPA75  , gpa76  , GPS76A,
1128MP , 208-904 , A-76 , CA18 , CA19 , CR44 , D76A , KA , KA76  , ms76h , px76a , px675a  , RPX675 , RW82 , SB-F9 , V13GA
4.5-volt , d , c , aa , aaa  , AAAA , A23 , 9-volt , CR2032 and LR44 batteries
Other types of batteries are or were made  in the r44 आकार  .
Formerly , mercury batteries were made as button cells  ( प्रकार mr44  and NR44 ) .
Zinc-air batteries type PR44 require  एयर to कार्य  .
Silver-oxide batteries type SR44 may provide extra capacity compared to LR44 types  लकिन  have slightly different voltage characteristics .
Performance of a device meant to use a silver-oxide battery may be degraded with  प्रतिस्थापन  of LR44 types .
निर्माता 's संख्याएँ  for silver oxide R44 size cells include:
sr44/sr44w/sr44sw
6135-99-651-3240 (  NSN )
sr1154
1107so
1131sop
sg13
s76
EPX76 (  energizer  )
303/357  ( D357H )
Hurricane Katrina was the deadliest and most  destructive अटलांटिक  hurricane of the 2005 Atlantic hurricane season .
It was the costliest  प्राकृतिक विपत्ति  , as well as one of the five deadliest hurricanes , in the history of the United States .
Among recorded Atlantic  hurricanes  , it was the sixth strongest overall .
At least 1,833 people died in  the hurricane और subsequent floods , बनाना it the  deadliest U.S. hurricane since the 1928 Okeechobee hurricane ; total property damage was estimated at $ 81 billion ( 2005 USD ) , nearly triple the damage brought by Hurricane Andrew in 1992 .
Hurricane Katrina formed over the Bahamas on August 23 , 2005 and crossed southern Florida as a  मॉडरेट श्रेणी 1 hurricane , causing कुछ मौतों और बाढ़ वहीँ  before strengthening rapidly in the Gulf of Mexico .
the hurricane strengthened  to a Category 5 hurricane over the warm Gulf water , but weakened before making its second landfall as a Category 3 hurricane on the morning of Monday , August 29 in southeast Louisiana .
it caused कठोर विनाश  along the Gulf coast from central Florida to Texas , much of it due to the storm surge .
The most  significant क्रमांक of मौतों occurred in नई ऑरलियन्स , louisiana , जिससे flooded as the तटबन्ध प्रणाली catastrophically विफल , in अनेक मामले घंटों बाद the तूफ़ान था स्थानांतरित अंतर्देशीय .
Eventually 80 % of the city and large tracts of  neighboring parishes became  flooded , and the floodwaters lingered for weeks .
However , the worst property damage occurred in coastal areas , such as all Mississippi beachfront towns , which were flooded  over  90 % in hours , as boats and casino barges rammed buildings , pushing cars and houses inland , with waters reaching 6–12 miles ( 10–19 km ) from the beach .
The hurricane surge protection failures in New Orleans are considered the worst civil engineering disaster in U.S.  इतिहास और prompted a मुकदमा विरूद्ध the u.S. फौज corps of इंजीनियर्स  ( USACE ) , the designers and builders of the levee system as mandated by the Flood Control Act of 1965 .
Responsibility for the failures and flooding was laid squarely on the Army Corps in January 2008 by Judge Stanwood Duval , U.S. District Court , but the federal  एजेंसी could नहीं be आयोजित financially  liable due to sovereign immunity in the Flood Control Act of 1928 .
There was also an investigation of the responses from federal , state and local governments , resulting in the resignation of Federal Emergency Management Agency ( FEMA ) director Michael D. Brown , and of New  Orleans Police  Department ( NOPD ) Superintendent Eddie Compass .
Several agencies including the United States Coast Guard ( USCG ) , National Hurricane Center (  nhc ) , और नेशनल  Weather Service ( NWS ) were commended for their actions .
They provided accurate hurricane weather tracking  forecasts  with sufficient lead time .
Even the most insistent appeals from national , state and local public officials to residents to evacuate before the storm  किया नहीं warn कि the levees could उल्लंघन  and fail .
U.S. debt from  1940 to  2011 .
Red lines indicate the `` debt held by the public '' and black  लाइनों indicate the कुल नेशनल कर्ज़ or सकल  public debt .
The difference is the ``  intragovernmental  debt , '' which includes obligations to government programs such as Social Security .
stated as a सूत्र  , National Debt = Debt held by the Public + Intragovernmental Debt .
The second panel shows the two debt  आंकड़े as a प्रतिशत  of U.S. GDP ( dollar value of U.S. economic production for that year ) .
The top panel is deflated so every year is in 2010  डॉलर .
The United States public debt is the money borrowed by the federal government of the United States through the issuing of securities by the Treasury and other  संघीय सरकारी एजेंसियों  .
US public debt consists  of दो घटकs:
Debt held by the public includes  राजकोष प्रतिभूति आयोजित by निवेशकों  outside the federal government , including that held by individuals , corporations , the Federal Reserve System and foreign , state and local governments .
कर्ज़ आयोजित by  government accounts or intragovernmental debt includes non-marketable Treasury securities held in accounts administered by the federal government that are owed to program beneficiaries , such as the Social Security Trust Fund .
कर्ज़ आयोजित by सरकारी  accounts represents the cumulative surpluses , including interest earnings , of these accounts that have been invested in Treasury securities .
Public debt  increases or decreases as a परिणाम  of the annual unified budget deficit or surplus .
the संघीय सरकारी बजट deficit or surplus is the अंतर between सरकारी रसीदें और बिता , ignoring intra-governmental हस्तांतरण  .
However , some spending that  is excluded  from the deficit ( supplemental appropriations ) also adds to the debt .
Historically , the US public debt as a share of GDP increased  दौरान युद्धों और  recessions , and subsequently declined .
For example , debt held by the public as a  share of जीडीपी peaked  just after World War II ( 113 % of GDP in 1945 ) , but then fell over the following 30 years .
In  हाल दशकों  , however , large budget deficits and the resulting increases in debt have led to concern about the long-term sustainability of the federal government 's fiscal policies .
On 2 April 2013 , debt held by the public was approximately $ 11.959  खरब or परिचय 75 %  of GDP .
Intragovernmental  holdings stood at $ 4.846 खरब  , giving a combined total public debt of $ 16.805 trillion .
As of January 2013 , $ 5.6 trillion or approximately 47 % of the debt held by the public was owned by foreign investors , the largest of which were the People 's Republic of  चीन और जापानी at  just over $ 1.1 trillion each .
In basketball , an assist is attributed to a player who passes the ball to a teammate in a way that leads to a score by field goal , meaning that he or  वो थी `` assisting '' in the बास्केट  .
There is some judgment  शामिल in deciding whether  a passer should be credited with an assist .
An assist can be scored for the passer even if the player who  receives the pass makes a बास्केट  after dribbling the ball .
However , the original definition of an assist did not include such  परिस्थितियों ,  so the comparison of assist statistics across eras is a complex matter .
Only the pass directly before the  स्कोर may be गिने as an assist  , so no more than one assist can be recorded per field goal ( unlike in other sports , such as ice hockey ) .
A pass that leads to a shooting foul and scoring by free throws does not count as an  assist  in the NBA , but does in FIBA play ( only one assist is awarded per set of free throws in which at least one free throw is made ) .
Point guards tend to get the most assists per game ( apg ) , as their role is  primarily  that of a passer and ballhandler .
Centers tend to get fewer assists ,  लकिन  centers with good floor presence and court vision can dominate a team by assisting .
Being inside the key , the center often has the best angles and the best position for `` dishes '' and other short passes in  the स्कोरिंग  area .
Center Wilt Chamberlain led the NBA in assists  in 1968  .
A strong center with inside-scoring prowess , such as former NBA center Hakeem Olajuwon , can also be an  प्रभावी assistor क्युकी the  defense 's double-teaming tends to open up offense in the form of shooters .
The NBA single-game assist record is 30 , held by Scott Skiles of  the ऑरलैंडो  Magic against the Denver Nuggets , on December 30 , 1990 .
The NBA record for most career assists is held by  जॉन स्टॉकटन साथ  15,806 .
The mill or mille ( ) ( sometimes mil in the UK , when discussing property taxes in the United States , or previously in Cyprus and Malta ) is a  now-abstract ईकाई of करेंसी  used sometimes in accounting .
In the  संयुक्त  States , it is a notional unit equivalent to of a United States dollar ( a tenth of a cent ) .
In the United Kingdom it was proposed during the decades of discussion on the  decimalization of the  pound as a division of the pound sterling .
Several   other currencies used the mill , such as the Maltese lira .
The term comes  इससे  the Latin `` millesimum '' , meaning `` thousandth part '' .
The Greco-Persian Wars ( also often called the Persian Wars ) were a series of conflicts  between the हख़ामनी साम्राज्य of फारस और city-states  of the Hellenic world that started in 499 BC and lasted until 449 BC .
The  टक्कर between the fractious  political world of the Greeks and the enormous empire of the Persians began when Cyrus the Great conquered Ionia in 547 BC .
Struggling to rule the independent-minded cities of Ionia , the Persians   appointed tyrants to rule each of them .
This would prove to be the source of much trouble for the  यूनानियों और  Persians alike .
In 499 BC , the then tyrant of Miletus , Aristagoras ,  embarked on an expedition to जीतें the द्वीप  of Naxos , with Persian support ; however , the expedition was a debacle and , pre-empting his dismissal , Aristagoras incited all of Hellenic Asia Minor into rebellion against the Persians .
This was the beginning of the Ionian Revolt , which would last until 493 BC , progressively drawing more regions of Asia Minor into the  विरोध  .
Aristagoras secured military support from Athens and Eretria , and in 498 BC these forces helped to capture and burn the Persian  क्षेत्रीय पूंजी of sardis  .
The Persian king Darius the Great vowed  to have बदला  on Athens and Eretria for this act .
The revolt continued  , साथ  the two sides effectively stalemated throughout 497–495 BC .
In 494 BC , the Persians regrouped , and attacked the epicentre of the revolt in Miletus   .
At the Battle of Lade , the Ionians suffered a decisive defeat , and the rebellion collapsed , with the final members being stamped out the  following साल  .
Seeking to secure his empire from further revolts and from the  हस्तक्षेप of the मेनलैंड यूनानियों , दारा embarked on a योजना to जीतें  Greece and to punish Athens and Eretria for burning Sardis .
The first Persian invasion of Greece began in 492 BC , with the Persian general Mardonius conquering Thrace and  macedon पहले  several mishaps forced an early end to the campaign .
In 490 BC  a दूसरी फ़ोर्स थी  sent to Greece , this time across the Aegean Sea , under the command of Datis and Artaphernes .
This expedition subjugated the  cyclades  , before besieging , capturing and razing Eretria .
However , while en route to attack Athens , the Persian force was decisively defeated by the Athenians at the Battle of Marathon ,  समाप्ति पारसी प्रयत्न लिये the समय होने .
Darius then began to plan to complete the conquest of Greece , but died in 486 BC and responsibility  लिये the conquest passed to उसके  son Xerxes I .
In 480 BC  , xerxes personally led the दूसरी पारसी आक्रमण of यूनानियों साथ एक of the largest प्राचीन सेना कभी समवेत .
Victory over the 'Allied ' Greek states ( led by Sparta and Athens ) at the Battle of  thermopylae अनुमत the फारसियों to  torch Athens and overrun most of Greece .
However , while seeking to destroy the combined Greek fleet , the Persians  suffered a कठोर  defeat at the Battle of Salamis .
The following year , the confederated Greeks went on the offensive , defeating the Persian army at the  बैटल of  Plataea , and ending the invasion of Greece .
The allied Greeks followed up their success by destroying the rest of the Persian fleet at the Battle of Mycale , before  expelling पारसी garrisons  from Sestos ( 479 BC ) and Byzantium ( 478 BC ) .
The actions of the general Pausanias  at the siege of  Byzantium alienated many of the Greek states from the Spartans , and the anti-Persian alliance was therefore reconstituted around Athenian leadership , as the so-called Delian League .
The Delian League continued to campaign against Persia for the next three decades , beginning with the expulsion of the remaining  पारसी garrisons  from Europe .
At the Battle of the Eurymedon in 466  bc , the लीग जीती  a double victory that finally secured freedom for the cities of Ionia .
However , the League 's involvement in an Egyptian revolt ( from 460–454 BC ) resulted  in  a disastrous defeat , and further campaigning was suspended .
A fleet was sent to Cyprus in 451 BC , but achieved little , and when it withdrew the Greco-Persian Wars drew to a  शांत  end .
Some historical sources suggest the end of hostilities was marked by a peace treaty between  एथेंस और फारस , the so-called  Peace of Callias .
Hooverville near  पोर्टलैंड ,  Oregon
A `` Hooverville '' is the popular name for  shanty  towns built by homeless people during the Great Depression .
वे यहूद नामित बाद  Herbert Hoover , who was President of the United States during the onset of the Depression and widely blamed for it .
The term was coined  by चार्ल्स माइकेल्सन  , publicity chief of the Democratic National Committee .
Matthew Michael Hasselbeck ( born September 25 , 1975 ) is an  अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल  quarterback for the Indianapolis Colts of the National Football League ( NFL ) .
He was drafted in the sixth round of the 1998 NFL  ड्राफ्ट by the ग्रीन खाड़ी पैकर्स  .
After a season  on the अभ्यास स्क्वाड और  two seasons backing up Brett Favre , he was traded to the Seattle Seahawks in 2001 .
Hasselbeck gained the starting role in 2003 , and led Seattle to six  playoff दिखावे और a सुपर  Bowl appearance ; he was selected to three Pro Bowls and an All-Pro selection .
Following ten seasons with the Seahawks , Hasselbeck  joined  the Tennessee Titans in 2011 .
Hasselbeck then signed a  अनुबंध साथ the  Indianapolis Colts in 2013 less than 24 hours after being released by the Tennessee Titans .
ICT is inevitably related   to the computer network .
Information and Communications Technology or ( ICT ) , is often used as an extended synonym for information technology ( IT ) , but is a more specific term that stresses the role of unified communications and the integration of telecommunications ( telephone lines and wireless signals ) , computers as well as necessary enterprise software , middleware , storage , and audio-visual systems , which enable users to access , store , transmit ,  और हेरफेर सूचना  .
The phrase ICT had been used by academic researchers since the  1980s , लकिन it became लोकप्रिय बाद  it was used in a report to the UK government by Dennis Stevenson in 1997 and in the revised National Curriculum for England , Wales and Northern Ireland in 2000 .
The term ICT is now also used to refer to the convergence  of audio-visual और टेलीफोन  networks with computer networks through a single cabling or link system .
There  हैं विशाल आर्थिक प्रोत्साहन  ( huge cost savings due to elimination of the telephone network ) to merge the audio-visual , building management and telephone network with the computer network system using a single unified system of cabling , signal distribution and management .
The term Infocommunications is used in some cases as a shorter form of information and  संचार ( s ) प्रौद्योगिकी  .
In fact Infocommunications is the expansion of  दूरसंचार  with information processing and content handling functions on a common digital technology base .
For a  तुलना  of these and other terms , see .
For ICT  विकास अनुक्रमणिका  around the world , see .
This is a list of characters from  जार्ज लोपेज़  .
A schematic presentation of the plum pudding model of the atom ; in Thomson 's mathematical model the `` corpuscles '' ( or  आधुनिक electrons ) यहूद arranged  non-randomly , in rotating rings
The current model of the sub-atomic  ढांचा involves a घना केंद्रक घिरी  by a probabilistic `` cloud '' of electrons
The plum pudding model of the atom by J. J. Thomson , who discovered the electron in 1897 , was proposed in 1904 before the discovery of the atomic nucleus in order to add the electron  to  the atomic model .
in इस मॉडल , the अणु is रचित  of electrons ( which Thomson still called `` corpuscles '' , though G. J. Stoney had proposed that atoms of electricity be called electrons in 1894 ) surrounded by a soup of positive charge to balance the electrons ' negative charges , like negatively charged `` plums `` surrounded by positively charged `` pudding `` .
The electrons ( as we know them today ) were  विचार to be positioned throughout the अणु , लकिन  with many structures possible for positioning multiple electrons , particularly rotating rings of electrons ( see below ) .
Instead of a soup , the atom was also  sometimes कहा to have  had a `` cloud '' of positive charge .
With this model , Thomson abandoned his earlier `` nebular atom '' hypothesis in which the atom was  रचित of immaterial vortices  .
Now , at least part of the atom was to be composed of Thomson 's particulate negative corpuscles , although  the बाकी of the positively चार्ज  part of the atom remained somewhat nebulous and ill-defined .
The  1904 thomson  model was disproved by the 1909 gold foil experiment of Hans Geiger and Ernest Marsden .
This was  interpreted  by Ernest Rutherford in 1911
to imply a very small nucleus of the  अणु containing a बहुत ऊँची धनात्मक चार्ज ( in the  case of gold , enough to balance about 100 electrons ) , thus leading to the Rutherford model of the atom .
Although gold has an atomic number of 79 , immediately after Rutherford 's paper appeared in 1911 Antonius Van den Broek made the  सहज सुझाव कि परमाणु  number is nuclear charge .
The matter  जरूरी प्रयोग  to decide .
Henry Moseley 's work showed experimentally in 1913 ( see Moseley 's law ) that the effective nuclear charge was very close to the atomic number ( Moseley found only one unit difference )  , और moseley संदर्भित तभी the papers of  Van den Broek and Rutherford .
This work culminated in the solar-system-like ( but quantum-limited ) Bohr model of the atom in the same year , in which a nucleus containing an  परमाणु क्रमांक of धनात्मक चार्ज is घिरी  by an equal number of electrons in orbital shells .
Bohr had also  प्रेरित  Moseley 's work .
thomson 's मॉडल  was compared ( though not by Thomson ) to a British dessert called plum pudding , hence the name .
Thomson 's paper was  प्रकाशित  in the March 1904 edition of the Philosophical Magazine , the leading British science journal of the day .
In Thomson 's view : ... the atoms of the elements  consist of a क्रमांक of negatively electrified  corpuscles enclosed in a sphere of uniform positive electrification , ...
In this model , the electrons were free to rotate within the blob or cloud of  धनात्मक  substance .
These orbits were stabilized in the model by the fact that when an electron moved farther from the center of the positive cloud , it felt a  larger जाल धनात्मक inward फ़ोर्स , क्युकी वहीँ थी अधिक सामग्री of विपरीत चार्ज , अंदर  its orbit ( see Gauss 's law ) .
In  thomson 's मॉडल , electrons  were free to rotate in rings which were further stabilized by interactions between the electrons , and spectra were to be accounted for by energy differences of different ring orbits .
Thomson attempted to make his model account for some of the major spectral  लाइनों ज्ञात लिये कुछ तत्व , लकिन थी  not notably successful at this .
Still , Thomson 's model ( along with a similar Saturnian ring model for atomic electrons , also put forward in 1904 by Nagaoka after James Clerk Maxwell 's model of Saturn 's rings  ) , यहूद पहले harbingers of the बाद और अधिक कामयाब  solar-system-like Bohr model of the atom .
Typical  स्ट्रिप of  bacon .
बेकन is a cured मांस prepared इससे a सुअर .
It is first cured using large quantities of salt  , either  in a brine or in a dry packing ; the result is fresh bacon ( also known as green bacon ) .
Fresh bacon may  तब be further सूखी  for weeks or months in cold air , or it may be boiled or smoked .
Fresh and dried bacon  is  typically cooked before eating .
Boiled  बेकन is तैयार to खा  , as is some smoked bacon , but may be cooked further before eating .
Bacon is prepared   from several different cuts of meat .
It is usually made from side and back cuts of pork , except in the United States , where it is almost always prepared from pork belly ( typically referred to as `` streaky '' , ``  वसीय '' ,  or `` American style '' outside of the US and Canada ) .
The side cut has more  मांस और कम  fat than the belly .
Bacon may be prepared from either of two distinct back cuts : fatback , which is   almost pure fat , and pork loin , which is very lean .
bacon-cured  pork loin is known as back bacon .
Uncooked pork belly bacon  स्ट्रिप्स .
Bacon may be eaten smoked , boiled , fried , baked , or grilled , or used as a minor ingredient  to स्वाद  dishes .
Bacon is  भी  used for barding and larding roasts , especially game , e.g . venison , pheasant .
The word is derived from the Old High German bacho , meaning `` buttock '' , `` ham '' or `` side of bacon '' , and cognate with  the बूढ़ा फ्रेंच बेकन .
In continental Europe , this part of the  सुअर is प्रायः नहीं स्मोक्ड  like bacon is in the United States ; it is used primarily in cubes ( lardons ) as a cooking ingredient , valued both as a source of fat and for its flavor .
In Italy , this is called pancetta and is usually cooked in small cubes or served uncooked  और thinly sliced as भाग  of an antipasto .
Meat from other animals , such as beef , lamb , chicken , goat , or turkey , may also be cut , cured , or otherwise prepared to  resemble बेकन ,  and may even be referred to as `` bacon '' .
Such use is  आम in  areas with significant Jewish and Muslim populations .
The USDA defines bacon as `` the cured belly of a swine carcass '' ; other cuts and characteristics must be  separately योग्य ( e.g. , `` स्मोक्ड पोर्क  loin bacon '' ) .
लिये सुरक्षा , बेकन जरूर be treated to prevent trichinosis , caused by trichinella , a parasitic roundworm जिससे can be नष्ट by हीटिंग , जमने , drying ,  or smoking .
बेकन is विशिष्ट  from salt pork and ham by differences in the brine ( or dry packing ) .
Bacon brine has added curing ingredients , most notably sodium nitrite , and occasionally sodium nitrate or potassium nitrate ( saltpeter ) ; sodium ascorbate or  erythorbate  are added to accelerate curing and stabilize color .
Flavorings such as brown sugar or maple are used  लिये कुछ उत्पाद  .
If used , sodium polyphosphates are added to  improve sliceability  and reduce spattering when the bacon is pan fried .
Today , a brine for ham , but not  बेकन , शामिल  a large amount of sugar .
Historically , `` ham '' and `` bacon '' referred to different cuts of meat that were brined or packed  identically , प्रायः साथ in the वही बैरल  .
The Employee  रिटायरमेंट आय सुरक्षा अधिनियम of 1974 ( erisa ) ( , संहिताबद्ध in भाग at ) is a संघीय  law which establishes minimum standards for pension plans in private industry and provides for extensive rules on the federal income tax effects of transactions associated with employee benefit plans .
ERISA was enacted to protect the interests of   employee benefit plan participants and their beneficiaries by:
Requiring the disclosure of financial and other  सूचना  concerning the plan to beneficiaries ;
Establishing standards of conduct for  योजना fiduciaries  ;
Providing for appropriate  remedies और अभिगम  to the federal courts .
ERISA is sometimes used to refer to the full body of laws regulating employee benefit plans , which are  मिला मुख्यतः in the आतंरिक आय  Code and ERISA itself .
Responsibility for the interpretation and enforcement of ERISA is divided among the Department of  मजदूर , the विभाग  of the Treasury ( particularly the Internal Revenue Service ) , and the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation .
Illegal immigration to the United States is the act of foreign nationals entering the United  राज्य , बगैर सरकारी  permission and in violation of United States nationality law , or staying beyond the termination date of a visa , also in violation of the law .
A warning sign at the international boundary between the United States and Canada in Point  रॉबर्ट्स , वॉशिंगटन  .
A much different approach at the U.S.-Mexico border  निकट el पासो , टेक्सास
The undocumented immigrant population of the United States in 2008 was estimated by the Center  लिये आव्रजन अध्ययन to be परिचय 11 लाख  people , down from 12.5 million people in 2007 .
Other estimates  दायरा  from 7 to 20 million .
according to a 2005 pew हिस्पैनिक बीच रपट , 56 % of undocumented आप्रवासियों यहूद इससे मैक्सिको ; 22 % यहूद इससे अन्य लैटिन अमरीकी देशों ; 13 % यहूद इससे एशिया ; 6 % यहूद इससे यूरोपीय और कनाडा ; और 3 % यहूद इससे अफ़्रीकी और the बाकी of the संसार .
Alvin Independent School District is a  स्कूल ज़िला  based in Alvin , Texas ( USA ) .
Alvin ISD is a large  suburban स्कूल  district south of Houston in the communities of Alvin , Manvel , Pearland , Hillcrest , Rosharon , Iowa Colony , Liverpool , and Amsterdam .
AISD serves Pearland city 's rapidly growing western portion of the city including the new large  master-planned समुदायों of छाया क्रीक  Ranch , South Fork , and Southern Trails .
Alvin ISD  कवर of जमीन  .
In human anatomy , the  ulnar तंत्रिका  is a nerve which runs near the ulna bone .
The ulnar  collateral स्नायु  of elbow joint is in relation with the ulnar nerve .
The nerve is the  largest  unprotected nerve in the human body ( meaning unprotected by muscle or bone ) , so injury is common .
इस तंत्रिका is सीधे कनेक्ट to the छोटी उंगली , और  the adjacent half of the ring finger , supplying the palmar side of these fingers , including both front and back of the tips , perhaps as far back as the fingernail beds .
One method of injuring the  तंत्रिका is to  strike the medial epicondyle of the humerus from posteriorly , or inferiorly with the elbow flexed .
The ulnar nerve is trapped between the bone and the overlying  स्किन  at this point .
This is commonly referred to  as bumping  one 's `` funny bone '' .
This name is thought to be a pun , based on the sound  प्रतिरूप between the नाम of  the bone of the upper arm , the `` humerus `` and the word `` humorous `` .
Alternatively ,  according to the ऑक्सफोर्ड  English Dictionary it may refer to `` the peculiar sensation experienced when it is struck '' .
Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry , shortened Hogwarts , is a  fictional अंग्रेजों स्कूल of  magic for students aged eleven to eighteen , and is the primary setting for the first six books in J.K. Rowling 's Harry Potter series .
Rowling has suggested that she may have inadvertently taken the name from the hogwort plant ( Croton capitatus ) , which she had seen at Kew Gardens some time before  लिखने the श्रेणी , हालांकि the names `` the हॉग्वार्ट्स '' और `` hoggwart '' appear in the 1954 निगेल molesworth  book How To Be Topp by Geoffrey Willans .
Hogwarts school was voted as the 36th best  स्कॉटिश शैक्षणिक स्थापना in a 2008  online ranking , outranking Edinburgh 's Loretto School .
According to a  निदेशक of the स्वतंत्र  Schools Network Rankings , it was added to the schools listing `` for fun '' and was then voted on .
The U.S.  subprime बंधक संकट  was a set of events and conditions that led to a financial crisis and subsequent recession that began in 2008 .
It was characterized by a rise in subprime mortgage delinquencies and foreclosures , and the resulting decline  of प्रतिभूति समर्थित  by said mortgages .
Several major financial institutions collapsed in September 2008 , with significant disruption  in the प्रवाह of क्रेडिट  to businesses and consumers and the onset of a severe global recession .
There were many causes of the crisis , with commentators assigning different levels of blame to  वित्तीय संस्थानों  , regulators , credit agencies , government housing policies , and consumers , among others .
A proximate cause was  the वृद्धि  in subprime lending .
The percentage of lower-quality subprime mortgages originated  दौरान  a given year rose from the historical 8 % or lower range to approximately 20 % from 2004 to 2006 , with much higher ratios in some parts of the U.S .
A high percentage of these subprime mortgages , over 90 % in 2006 for example ,  यहूद adjustable-rate  mortgages .
These two changes were part of a broader trend of  lowered lending  standards and higher-risk mortgage products .
Further , U.S. households had become increasingly  indebted , with  the ratio of debt to disposable personal income rising from 77 % in 1990 to 127 % at the end of 2007 , much of this increase mortgage-related .
When U.S. home prices   declined steeply after peaking in mid-2006 , borrowers ' ability to refinance their loans became more difficult .
As  adjustable-rate  mortgages began to reset at higher interest rates ( causing higher monthly payments ) , mortgage delinquencies soared .
Securities backed  with  mortgages , including subprime mortgages , widely held by financial firms globally , lost most of their value .
Global investors also drastically reduced purchases of mortgage-backed debt  and  other securities as part of a decline in the capacity and willingness of the private financial system to support lending .
Concerns about the soundness of U.S. credit and financial markets led to  tightening क्रेडिट around the संसार  and slowing economic growth in the U.S. and Europe .
The crisis had severe , long-lasting consequences for the  u.S. और यूरोपीय  economies .
The U.S. entered a deep recession , with nearly 9 million jobs lost during 2008 and 2009 , roughly  6 % of the  workforce .
U.S. housing prices fell nearly 30 % on average and the U.S. stock market fell  लगभग  50 % by early 2009 .
As of early 2013 , the U.S. stock market had recovered to its pre-crisis peak but housing prices remained near  उनके कम पाइंट और बेरोजगारी  remained elevated .
आर्थिक विकास  remained below pre-crisis levels .
Europe also  जारी  to struggle with its own economic crisis .
कार्ल जंग in 1910 .
Myers  और briggs  extrapolated their MBTI theory from Jung 's writings in his book Psychological Types .
The Myers-Briggs Type Indicator ( MBTI ) assessment is a psychometric questionnaire  designed to माप  psychological preferences in how people perceive the world and make decisions .
These preferences were extrapolated from the typological theories proposed by Carl Gustav Jung and first published in his  1921 किताब मनोवैज्ञानिक  Types ( English edition , 1923 ) .
Jung theorized that there are four principal psychological functions by which we  अनुभव the  world : sensation , intuition , feeling , and thinking .
One of  ये  four functions is dominant most of the time .
The original developers of the personality inventory were Katharine Cook Briggs and her daughter , Isabel Briggs Myers ; these two , having studied extensively the work of Jung , turned their  interest of human behavior  into a devotion of turning the theory of psychological types to practical use .
They began creating the indicator during World War II , believing that a knowledge of personality preferences would help women who were entering the industrial workforce for the first time to identify the sort of  war-time कार्य कि होता be ``  most comfortable and effective '' .
The initial questionnaire grew into the Myers-Briggs Type Indicator , which was  पहला प्रकाशित in 1962  .
The MBTI focuses on normal  populations और emphasizes  the value of naturally occurring differences .
Robert Kaplan and Dennis Saccuzzo believe `` the underlying assumption of the MBTI is that we  सब have विशिष्ट वरीयताओं in the रास्ता we construe हमारी अनुभवों  , and these preferences underlie our interests , needs , values , and motivation '' ( p. 499 ) .
`` Judas '' is a song by American recording artist Lady Gaga , from her  दूसरी  studio album Born This Way ( 2011 ) .
It was released  by interscope  Records on April 15 , 2011 , four days ahead of its scheduled release .
Written and produced by Lady Gaga and RedOne , `` Judas '' is a dance and electro house song about a woman in love with a  man  who betrayed her .
It embodies  the incidents  that have haunted Gaga in the past , and its core meaning refers to the negative parts of her life that she ca n't escape .
Gaga has further explained that the song was also about honoring one 's inner darkness in order  to लाओ oneself into the लाइट  .
The artwork for  the सिंगल थी  designed by Gaga in Microsoft Word .
In spite of a polarizing impact on several religious groups , the song was generally well  प्राप्त by आलोचकों ,  who likened the song to `` Bad Romance `` with some noting it should have been the album 's lead single .
The song has a similar sound to Gaga 's previous RedOne-produced tracks , including `` Poker Face `` , `` LoveGame `` , ``  ख़राब रोमांस ''  , and `` Alejandro `` .
It contains three distinct hooks and a  हाउस -influenced  break down .
Gaga explained that the lines spoken during the  विश्लेषण बात परिचय उसके as परे  redemption , regarding the traditional views of what a woman should be .
`` Judas  ''  initially had a strong sales opening , but was less successful commercially in comparison to Gaga 's previous singles .
The song reached the top ten of the charts in most major music markets , and also reached the top of the  चार्ट  in South Korea .
A music video for the song was filmed in  अप्रैल 2011  , co-directed by Gaga and Laurieann Gibson and co-starring Norman Reedus .
It has a  biblical कथानक जहाँ  Reedus played Judas Iscariot and Gaga played Mary Magdalene .
The video  portrays उन्हें as  modern day missionaries going to Jerusalem .
It included the Biblical story of Judas betraying Jesus , and ended with Gaga  as magdalene getting  stoned to death .
Before its release , the  कैथोलिक लीग  condemned Gaga for the alleged use of religious imagery and her role in the video .
However , critics generally praised the video , not  ढूंढना कोई अप्रिय  content .
The video was nominated for two awards at the  2011 एमटीवी  Video Music Awards .
Gaga has  performed `` यहूदा '' on a क्रमांक of टेलीविज़न shows , सहित the ग्राहम नॉर्टन दिखाएँ , शनिवार रात्रि सजीव , शुभ morning americas `` गर्मियाँ कॉन्सर्ट श्रेणी '' , the फ्रेंच x फ़ैक्टर as खूब as on the एलेन degeneres दिखाएँ .
Marvin Gaye ( April 2 , 1939April 1  , 1984 ) , born  Marvin Pentz Gay , Jr. , was an American singer-songwriter and musician .
Gaye helped to shape the sound of Motown Records in the 1960s with a string of hits including `` How Sweet It Is ( To Be Loved By You ) `` and `` I Heard It Through the Grapevine `` and duet recordings with Mary  कुएं और tammi terrell , बाद कमाई the शीर्षक `` प्रिंस  of Motown '' and `` Prince of Soul '' .
During the 1970s , Gaye recorded the concept albums What 's Going On and Let 's Get It On and became  among the पहला कलाकारों  in Motown to break away from the reins of its production company .
Gaye 's later recordings influenced several R & B subgenres such as quiet  तूफ़ान और neo-soul  .
Following a period in Europe under a tax exile in the early 1980s , Gaye released the 1982 Grammy  award-winning hit `` यौन healing  `` and the Midnight Love album .
Since his death in 1984 , Gaye has been posthumously honored by many institutions , including the Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award and the Rock  and  Roll Hall of Fame .
The Academy Award for Best Picture is one of the Academy Awards of Merit presented annually by the Academy of  गति चित्र कला और sciences ( ampas ) to निर्माता working in  the motion picture industry and is the only category in which every member is eligible to nominate for .
Best Picture is considered the  सबसे महत्वपूर्ण  of the Academy Awards , as it represents all the directing , acting , music composing , writing , editing and other efforts put forth into a film .
नतीजतन , बेहतरीन  Picture is the final award and the conclusion of the annual Academy Awards ceremony .
The Grand Staircase columns at the Dolby Theatre in Los Angeles , where the Academy Awards ceremonies have been held since 2002 ,  शोकेस प्रत्येक फिल्मी कि रै जीती the  Best Picture title since the award 's inception 85 years ago .
Heavy Rain is an interactive drama action-adventure video game created by French developer Quantic Dream exclusively for the  प्लेस्टेशन  3 .
The game is written and directed by Quantic  सपना 's  founder and CEO David Cage .
Heavy Rains story is a dramatic thriller modelled after film noir , featuring four protagonists involved with the mystery of the Origami Killer , a serial  कातिल जो उपयोग विस्तारित अवधि of वर्षा to  drown his victims .
Ethan Mars is trying to save his son from being the next victim , while investigative journalist   Madison Paige , FBI profiler Norman Jayden , and private detective Scott Shelby are each trying to track down clues to the Origami Killer 's identity .
The player interacts with the game by performing  क्रियाएँ highlighted on स्क्रीन सम्बन्धित  to motions on the controller , and in some cases , performing a series of quick time events during fast-paced action sequences .
The  खिलाड़ी 's  decisions and actions during the game will affect the narrative .
The main characters  can be मारे  , and certain actions may lead to different scenes and endings .
A playable demo was  released on 11 फ़रवरी  2010 .
The demo was released prior to this date for people who took part in a Four Day  चुनौती  on 5 February 2010 .
A patch to allow use of the PlayStation Move  नियंत्रक to खेल the  game was released in September 2010 .
Heavy Rain was critically acclaimed and has sold over  दो लाख नक़ल  .
It won 2010 's Game of the Year from CNN and Gaming Union ,  और बेहतरीन ps3 खेल of 2010  by GameSpy and IGN .
A modified version of the game was released titled  भारी बरसात संस्करण  Modifiée exclusively in France , aimed towards a younger audience .
In 2010 , the  खेल थी  included in the book 1001 Video Games You Must Play Before You Die .
Total superannuation industry liabilities :  सदस्यों निधि और reserves  ( A $ millions ) since 1988 .
Annual  कुल  superannuation industry asset growth 1996-2005 .
Superannuation in Australia refers to the arrangements  जिससे लोगों मेक  in Australia to have funds available for them in retirement .
In Australia , superannuation arrangements  are  government-supported and encouraged , and minimum provisions are compulsory for employees .
For example , employers are required to pay a proportion of an employee 's salaries and wages ( currently 9 % ) into a superannuation fund , but people are encouraged to put aside  अतिरिक्त निधि into superannuation  .
The  न्यूनतम  obligation required by employers is set to increase to 12 % gradually stepping annually from 2013 to 2020 .
An individual can withdraw funds out of a superannuation fund when the person meets one of the  शर्तें  of release contained in Schedule 1 of the Superannuation Industry ( Supervision ) Regulations 1994 .
This is  a सूची of the  characters from the American comedy-drama television series The Game .
Electoral College map showing  the परिणाम  of the 2012 U.S. presidential election .
President Barack Obama ( D - IL ) won the popular vote in 26 states and the  ज़िला of कोलंबिया  ( denoted in blue ) to capture 332 electoral votes .
Former Governor Mitt Romney  ( r - ma ) जीती the लोकप्रिय  vote in 24 states ( denoted in red ) to capture 206 electoral votes .
Cartogram representation of the Electoral College vote for the 2012   election , with each square representing one electoral vote .
The United States Electoral College is the institution that  officially  elects the President and Vice President of the United States every four years .
The President and Vice President are  नहीं निर्वाचित सीधे  by the voters .
Instead , they are elected by `` electors '' who are chosen by  लोकप्रिय  vote on a state-by-state basis .
Electors are apportioned to each state and the District of Columbia ,  लकिन नहीं to territorial  possessions of the United States , such as Puerto Rico and Guam .
The number  of  electors in each state is equal to the number of members of Congress to which the state is entitled .
The Twenty-third Amendment   has always resulted in the District of Columbia having three electors .
There are 538 electors , based on there being 435 representatives and  100 सीनेटरों , प्लस  the three electors from the District of Columbia .
Electors are pledged to  particular अध्यक्षीय और  vice presidential candidates , though unpledged electors are possible .
In all states , except Maine and Nebraska , electors are elected on a ``  winner-take-all '' आधार  .
कि is , सब निर्वाचक  pledged to the presidential candidate who wins the most votes in a state become electors for that state .
Maine and Nebraska use the `` congressional district method  '' , selecting एक elector भीतर  each congressional district by popular vote and selecting the remaining two electors by a statewide popular vote .
Although no elector is required by  संघीय विधि to सम्मान a प्रतिज्ञा ,  there have only been very few occasions when an elector voted contrary to a pledge .
The  बारहवीं amendment specifies कैसा a अध्यक्ष और वाइस अध्यक्ष  are elected and requires each elector to cast one vote for President and another vote for Vice President .
Critics argue that the Electoral College is inherently  undemocratic  and gives swing states disproportionate influence in electing the President and Vice President .
The Electoral College gives a numeric advantage in the election of the president to the smaller states , as the minimum number  of निर्वाचक  for the small states is three compared to one for the election of representatives .
On the other hand , the winner-take-all method   of voting favors the larger states .
A number of constitutional amendments  have महरूम प्रस्तावित  seeking to alter the Electoral College or replace it with a direct popular vote .
Barack Hussein  ओबामा ii ( ; born अगस्त 4 , 1961 ) is the  44th and current President of the United States , the first African American to hold the office .
Born in Honolulu , Hawaii , Obama is a graduate of Columbia University and Harvard Law School  , जहाँ he थी अध्यक्ष of the  Harvard Law Review .
He was a  जातियाँ आयोजक  in Chicago before earning his law degree .
He worked as a civil rights attorney in Chicago and taught constitutional law at the University of Chicago Law School from 1992   to 2004 .
he परोसा तीन शर्तें representing  the 13th District in the Illinois Senate from 1997 to 2004 , running unsuccessfully for the United States House of Representatives in 2000 .
In 2004 , Obama received national attention during his campaign to represent Illinois in the United States Senate with his victory in  the कूच लोकतांत्रिक पार्टी प्राथमिक  , his keynote address at the Democratic National Convention in July , and his election to the Senate in November .
He began his presidential campaign in 2007 , and in 2008 , after a close primary campaign against  हिलेरी rodham क्लिंटन , he जीती sufficient  delegates in the Democratic Party primaries to receive the presidential nomination .
He  तब पराजित  Republican nominee John McCain in the general election , and was inaugurated as president on January 20 , 2009 .
Nine months later ,  ओबामा  was named the 2009 Nobel Peace Prize laureate .
He was re-elected president in November 2012 , defeating Republican nominee Mitt Romney , and  थी sworn in लिये  a second term on January 20 , 2013 .
Early in his first term in office , Obama signed into law economic stimulus legislation in response  to the ग्रेट मंदी in the रूप  of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 and the Tax Relief , Unemployment Insurance Reauthorization , and Job Creation Act of 2010 .
Other major domestic initiatives in his presidency include the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act , often referred to as `` Obamacare '' ; the Dodd–Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act ; the Do n't Ask , Do n't Tell Repeal Act of  2010 ; the बजट कंट्रोल अधिनियम of 2011 ; और the अमरीकी करदाताओं राहत अधिनियम of  2012 .
In May 2012 , he became the first sitting U.S. president to publicly  support same-sex विवाह और in 2013 उसके प्रशासन दायर  briefs which urged the Supreme Court to rule in favor of same-sex couples in two high-profile cases .
In foreign policy , Obama ended U.S. military involvement in the Iraq War , increased troop levels in Afghanistan , signed the New START  बाहें कंट्रोल सन्धि  with Russia , ordered U.S. military involvement in Libya , and ordered the military operation that resulted in the death of Osama bin Laden .
The Honda CBR1100XX Super  blackbird  was a Honda motorcycle made from 1996 to 2007 .
The bike was developed to challenge the Kawasaki Ninja ZX-11 as the world 's fastest production motorcycle , and Honda succeeded with a top  गति of  .
Two years later  the शीर्षक passed to  the Suzuki Hayabusa , which reached .
The Blackbird is named after the Lockheed SR-71 , also a speed  रिकार्ड  holder .
Sample view of an electronic  स्वास्थ्य  record based on images
नमूना  view of an electronic health record
An electronic  स्वास्थ्य रिकार्ड (  EHR ) is an evolving concept defined as a systematic collection of electronic health information about individual patients or populations .
It is a record in digital format that is theoretically capable  of होने साझा आरपार अलग  health care settings .
In some cases this sharing can occur by way of network-connected enterprise-wide information systems and  अन्य सूचना  networks or exchanges .
EHRs may include a range of data , including demographics , medical history , medication and allergies , immunization status , laboratory  test  results , radiology images , vital signs , personal stats like age and weight , and billing information .
The Mariner  up on the  mast in a storm .
One of the  wood-engraved  illustrations by Gustave Doré .
The Rime of the  प्राचीन मेरिनर ( originally the rime of the  Ancyent Marinere ) is the longest major poem by the English poet Samuel Taylor Coleridge , written in 1797–98 and published in 1798 in the first edition of Lyrical Ballads .
Modern editions use a  बाद  revised version printed in 1817 that featured a gloss .
Along with other poems in Lyrical Ballads , it was a signal shift to  आधुनिक काव्य  and the beginning of British Romantic literature .
A proxy auto-config ( PAC ) file defines how web browsers and other user agents can automatically choose the appropriate proxy server  ( अभिगम विधि ) लिये fetching  a given URL .
A PAC file contains a JavaScript function  “findproxyforurl  ( url , host ) ” .
This  फलन  returns a string with one or more access method specifications .
These specifications cause the user agent to use a particular proxy server  or  to connect directly .
Multiple specifications provide a fall-back when a  प्रॉक्सी fails  to respond .
The browser fetches this PAC  संचिका पहले  requesting other URLs .
The URL of the PAC file is either configured manually or determined automatically by the  वेब प्रॉक्सी autodiscovery  Protocol .
Zendaya Coleman ( born September 1 , 1996 ) , known mononymously as Zendaya , is an American actress ,  सिंगर और  dancer .
she stars on the Disney Channel  sitcom  Shake It Up as Rocky Blue .
She has  स्ट्रक्चर in  two films and played one of the lead roles in the film Frenemies as Halley Brandon .
She voiced Fern in the Pixie  खोखला खेल  .
She appeared in Good  लक चार्ली as रॉकी ब्लू और  in a Good Luck Charlie and Shake It Up crossover title Charlie Shake It Up .
She appeared on PrankStars as herself in the episode  `` चलना the  Prank '' and on A.N.T . Farm as Sequoia Jones in the episode `` Creative ConsultANT . ''
zendaya  is also a musician .
She signed a deal with Hollywood  रिकॉर्ड on अगस्त 8 , 2012  and started recording songs for her debut album on August 12 , 2012 .
She released a single from an independent label  पुकारा `` swag it आउट `` और  another single with Bella Thorne called `` Watch Me , '' which is featured on the Break It Down album .
On March 20 , 2012 , Zendaya and Bella Thorne released an album together called Shake It Up : Live 2 Dance , each have their own song on it , along with a mash-up  of both songs  together as one .
On August 21 , 2012 , Zendaya and  बेला thorne released  an EP called Shake It Up : Made In Japan .
Zendaya has a Christmas song called `` Shake Santa Shake , '' which is on the Disney Channel Holiday Playlist CD ,  जिससे थी released on  October 2 , 2012 .
on कूच 5 , 2013 the तीसरा शेक it up  soundtrack was released , entitled I < 3 Dance ; on it , Zendaya has two songs with Bella - `` Contagious Love '' and `` This Is My Dance Floor '' - as well as one solo song , `` Beat of My Drum . ''
This is a list of airports in Pennsylvania ( a U.S. state ) , grouped by type and   sorted by location .
It  contains  all public-use and military airports in the state .
Some private-use and former airports may be included where notable , such as airports that were   previously public-use , those with commercial enplanements recorded by the FAA or airports assigned an IATA airport code .
iOS ( previously iPhone OS ) is a mobile operating system developed and distributed by Apple Inc . Originally released in 2007 for the iPhone and iPod Touch platforms , it has been  विस्तारित to support अन्य ठहराना डिवाइस ऐसे as the ipad और ठहराना  TV .
Unlike Microsoft 's Windows Phone and Google 's Android , Apple does  नहीं अनुज्ञा  iOS for installation on non-Apple hardware .
, Apple 's App Store contained more than 700,000 iOS applications , which have  collectively महरूम डाउनलोड अधिक  than 30 billion times .
It had a 21 % share of the  स्मार्टफोन मोबाईल ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली इकाई  shipped in the fourth quarter of 2012 , behind only Google 's Android .
In June 2012 , it accounted for 65 % of mobile web data consumption ( including use  on दोनो the ipod टच  and the iPad ) .
At the half of 2012  , वहीँ यहूद  410 million devices activated .
According to the special media event held by Apple on September 12 , 2012 , 400 million  डिवाइस  have been sold through June 2012 .
The  उपयोक्ता इंटरफ़ेस of  iOS is based on the concept of direct manipulation , using multi-touch gestures .
Interface control  तत्व  consist of sliders , switches , and buttons .
Interaction with the OS includes gestures such as swipe , tap , pinch , and reverse pinch , all of which have specific definitions within the context of the iOS  ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली  and its multi-touch interface .
Internal  accelerometers हैं प्रयुक्त by कुछ अनुप्रयोग to  respond to shaking the device ( one common result is the undo command ) or rotating it in three dimensions ( one common result is switching from portrait to landscape mode ) .
iOS is derived from OS X , with  जिससे  it shares the Darwin foundation .
iOS  is  Apple 's mobile version of the OS X operating system used on Apple computers .
In iOS , there are four abstraction layers : the Core OS layer , the Core Services layer , the Media layer , and  the cocoa टच परत  .
The current version of the operating system  (  iOS 6.1.3 ) dedicates 1-1.5 GB of the device 's flash memory for the system partition , using roughly 800 MB of that partition ( varying by model ) for iOS itself .
iOS currently runs on  iphone , ipad  , iPod touch and Apple TV .
The Plymouth Superbird is famous for its extremely high  पश्च wing .
1987 audi  Sport QuattroS1 with its large wings at Pikes Peak
A spoiler is an automotive aerodynamic device whose intended design function is to  'spoil ' प्रतिकूल  air movement across a body of a vehicle in motion , usually described as turbulence or drag .
Spoilers on the front of a vehicle are often called air dams , because in addition to directing air flow they also reduce the  राशि of एयर बहती  underneath the vehicle which generally reduces aerodynamic lift and drag .
Spoilers are  प्रायः  fitted to race and high-performance sports cars , although they have become common on passenger vehicles as well .
Some spoilers are added to cars primarily for  स्टाइलिंग उद्देश्य और  have either little aerodynamic benefit or even make the aerodynamics worse .
Spoilers for cars are often incorrectly confused with , or the term used  interchangeably  with , wings .
ऑटोमोटिव विंग्स हैं डिवाइस जिनकी  intended design is to generate downforce as air passes around them , not simply disrupt existing airflow patterns .
Mario , who serves as Nintendo   's mascot , is a fictional character created by game designer Shigeru Miyamoto and voiced by Charles Martinet .
This is a list of video games where the character Mario plays a part , either as the  समर्थक , विपक्षी  , supporting character , as part of an ensemble cast , as a cameo , or in a game within a game .
It does not include simple references to the character , such as the portraits of Mario found in The  लेजेंड of zelda : a कड़ी to the  Past .
The  साल indicated is the  year the game was first released , most commonly in Japan ; games were sometimes released years later in other regions of the world .
The list  शामिल पोर्ट  , remakes and compilations .
It does n't include any Virtual Console  re-releases  .
`` Man of Constant Sorrow '' (  भी ज्ञात as `` i am a man of निरंतर विषाद  '' ) is a traditional American folk song first recorded by Dick Burnett , a partially blind fiddler from Kentucky .
The song was  originally अंकित by burnett  as `` Farewell Song '' printed in a Richard Burnett songbook , circa 1913 .
An early version was recorded by Emry Arthur in 1928 ( Vocalion Vo   5208 ) .
Public interest in the song was renewed after the  रिलीज of  the 2000 film O Brother , Where Art Thou ?
, as it plays a central  भूमिका in the फिल्मी  's plot .
The song was also included in the film 's highly  कामयाब  , multiple-platinum selling soundtrack .
जोसेफसन  junction array chip developed by the National Bureau of Standards as a standard volt
The volt ( symbol : V ) is the SI derived unit for  इलेक्ट्रिक संभावित ( वोल्टेज ) , इलेक्ट्रिक संभावित अंतर  , and electromotive force .
The volt is named in honor of the Italian physicist Alessandro Volta (  1745–1827 ) , जो invented the वोल्टायिक  pile , possibly the first chemical battery .
A plaque commemorating the  स्थान of the साराजेवो हत्या  and steps of Gavrilo Princip ( image taken in 1987 , before steps were removed in 1992 and plaque changed from Cyrillic to Latin script )
A plaque commemorating the location of the Sarajevo  हत्या (  image taken in 2009 )
On 28 June 1914 ,  archduke  Franz Ferdinand of Austria , heir presumptive to the Austro-Hungarian throne , and his wife , Sophie , Duchess of Hohenberg , were shot dead in Sarajevo , by Gavrilo Princip , one of a group of six Bosnian Serb assassins coordinated by Danilo Ilić .
The political objective of the assassination was to break off Austria-Hungary 's south-Slav provinces so  they could be combined  into a Greater Serbia or a Yugoslavia .
The assassins ' motives were consistent with the  गति  that later became known as Young Bosnia .
Serbian military officers stood behind the  आक्रमण  .
At the top of these Serbian military conspirators was Chief of Serbian  सैन्य प्रज्ञा dragutin dimitrijević  , his righthand man Major Vojislav Tankosić , and Masterspy Rade Malobabić .
Major Tankosić armed the assassins with  बम  and pistols and trained them .
The assassins were given access to the same clandestine tunnel of safe-houses and agents that Rade Malobabić used for the infiltration of weapons and   operatives into Austria-Hungary .
The assassins , the key  सदस्यों of the clandestine टनल , और the कुंजी  Serbian military conspirators who were still alive were arrested , tried , convicted and punished .
Those who were  गिरफ्तार  in Bosnia were tried in Sarajevo in October 1914 .
The other conspirators were arrested and tried before a Serbian  कंगारू अदालत on the french-controlled  Salonika Front in 1916–1917 on unrelated false charges ; Serbia executed three of the top military conspirators .
Much of what is known  परिचय the  assassinations comes from these two trials and related records .
Assignment of responsibility for the  bombing और हत्याएं  of 28 June is highly controversial because the attack led to the outbreak of World War I one month later .
Mission San Juan Capistrano was a Spanish mission in Southern California , located  in present-day  San Juan Capistrano .
it थी संस्थापित on सब संतो ' दिन नवम्बर 1 , 1776 , by स्पेनी catholics of the franciscan अनुक्रम .
Named for Giovanni da Capistrano , a 15th century theologian and `` warrior priest '' who resided in the Abruzzo region  of इटली , सैन जुआन capistrano रै the  distinction of being home to the oldest building in California still in use , a chapel built in 1782 .
Known alternately as `` Serra 's  चैपल '' और `` पिता सेरा  's Church , '' it is the only extant structure where it has been documented that the padre Junipero Serra celebrated mass .
One of the best known of the Alta California missions ( and one of the few missions to have actually been founded twice—others being Mission San  जिबरील  Arcángel and Mission La Purísima Concepción ) .
The site was originally consecrated on October 30 , 1775 , by Father Fermín Lasuén , but was quickly abandoned  due to अशांति among the स्वदेशी  population in San Diego .
The success of the settlement  is evident in  its historical records .
Prior to the arrival of the missionaries , some 550 natives were  बिखरे throughout  the local area .
By 1790 , the number of converted Christians had grown to 700 , and just  छह सालो बाद nearly 1,000 ``  neophytes `` ( recent converts ) lived in or around the Mission compound .
1,649 baptisms were conducted  कि  year alone , out of the total 4,639 souls converted between 1776 and 1847 .
More than 2,000 former   inhabitants ( mostly Juaneño Indians ) are buried in unmarked graves in the Mission 's cemetery ( campo santo ) .
The remains of Father ( later Monsignor ) St. John O'Sullivan , who  पहचाना the प्रॉपर्टी 's ऐतिहासिक मान और working tirelessly to conserve  and rebuild its structures , are buried at the entrance to the cemetery on the west side of the property , and a statue raised in his honor stands at the head of the crypt .
The surviving chapel also serves as the final resting place of three padres who passed on while serving at the Mission : Fathers José Barona  , विसेंट fustér , और विसेंट पास्कुआल oliva हैं सब entombed  beneath the sanctuary floor .
The Criolla or `` Mission grape , '' was first planted at San Juan Capistrano in 1779 ;  in 1783 , the पहला वाइन उत्पादित  in Alta California emerged from the Mission 's winery .
The Mission entered a long period of  क्रमिक मनाही  after secularization in 1833 .
Numerous  प्रयत्न यहूद  made over the years to restore the Mission to its former glory , but none met with great success until the arrival of Father O'Sullivan in 1910 .
Restoration efforts continue , and `` Serra 's  चैपल '' is स्टिल प्रयुक्त  for religious services .
About half-a-million visitors , including  80,000 स्कूल children  , come to the Mission each year .
And while the ruins of `` The Great Stone Church '' ( which was all but leveled by an 1812 earthquake ) are a renowned architectural wonder , the Mission is perhaps best known for the annual `` Return of the Swallows ''  जिससे is traditionally  observed every March 19 ( Saint Joseph 's Day ) .
Mission San Juan Capistrano has served as a  पसंदीदा विषय  for many notable artists , and has been immortalized in literature and on film numerous times , perhaps more than any other mission .
In  1984 , a आधुनिक गिरिजाघर जटिल  was constructed just north and west of the Mission compound and is now known as Mission Basilica San Juan Capistrano .
Today , the mission compound serves as a museum ,  साथ the  Serra Chapel within the compound serving as a chapel for the mission parish .
Better Off Dead is a 1985  अमरीकी टीन रोमांटिक  comedy film starring John Cusack and written and directed by Savage Steve Holland .
It tells the story of high school student Lane Myer who is suicidal after  उसके गर्लफ्रेंड  breaks up with him .
Mercedes-Benz Superdome ( originally Louisiana Superdome and commonly The Superdome ) is a sports and exhibition stadium , located in the Central   Business District of New Orleans , Louisiana , USA .
Plans were drawn up in 1967 , by the New Orleans  modernist architectural  firm of Curtis and Davis .
Its steel  फ़्रेम  covers a expanse .
Its  गुम्बद is बना of a  Lamella multi-ringed frame and has a diameter of , making it the largest fixed domed structure in the world .
It is home to the NFL 's New Orleans Saints ,  the ncaa 's प्रभाग i-a tulane ग्रीन वेव फ़ुटबॉल टोली  ( the largest football stadium in Conference USA ) , the State Farm Bayou Classic , the R+L Carriers New Orleans Bowl , the Allstate Sugar Bowl and , every fourth year , the BCS National Championship Game .
Because of the size and location in one of the major tourist destinations in the United States ,  the superdome routinely makes the `` छोटी सूची '' of उम्मीदवार  being considered for major sporting events , such as the Super Bowl and the Final Four .
In 2005 ,  the superdome  gained international attention of a different type when it housed thousands of people seeking shelter from Hurricane Katrina .
The building  suffered extensive  damage as a result of the storm , and was closed for many months afterward .
On October 3 , 2011 , it was announced  कि जर्मनी automaker  Mercedes-Benz purchased naming rights to the stadium .
The new name  took प्रभाव  on October 23 , 2011 .
It is the third stadium that has naming rights from Mercedes-Benz ( and first in the United States ) , after the Mercedes-Benz Arena , the stadium of Bundesliga club VfB Stuttgart , in Stuttgart , Germany and the Mercedes-Benz  एरिना  in Shanghai , China .
Lobby  of जम्बो  House
Giraffe on the savannah at  जम्बो हाउस
Disney 's Animal Kingdom  आवास is an african-themed डीलक्स  resort at the Walt Disney World Resort .
it खोली  on April 16 , 2001 .
The resort is owned and operated by Walt  डिज़्नी पार्क  and Resorts .
Disney 's Animal Kingdom Lodge is located in the Animal  किंगडम  Resort Area , adjacent to Disney 's Animal Kingdom .
It gives guests the opportunity to view grazing wildlife outside their rooms and public areas in the resort within proximity of the animals ,  conveying the अहसास  of being in an African savanna .
the लोगों 's पार्टी , भी ज्ञात as the `` populists '' , थी a short-lived राजनैतिक पार्टी in the संयुक्त राज्य स्थापित in 1891 दौरान the populist गति ( संयुक्त राज्य , 19th सदी  ) .
It was most  महत्वपूर्ण  in 1892-96 , and then rapidly faded away .
Based among poor , white cotton farmers in the South ( especially North Carolina , Alabama , and Texas ) and hard-pressed wheat farmers in the plains states ( especially Kansas and Nebraska ) , it represented a radical  crusading रूप of agrarianism और दुश्मनी  to banks , railroads , and elites generally .
It sometimes  formed coalitions  with labor unions , and in 1896 the Democrats endorsed their presidential nominee , William Jennings Bryan .
The terms `` populist '' and `` populism `` are commonly used for anti-elitist appeals in opposition to established interests  और मुख्यधारा पार्टियों  .
Linguistic  मैप  of Nigeria , Cameroon , and Benin .
Sign in English ,  बाहर  the University of Lagos
There are hundreds of languages spoken in  सीरियल  .
The major  भाषाएं हैं योरूबा  , Hausa , Igbo , Edo , Fulfulde , Kanuri , and Ibibio .
The official language of Nigeria  , अंग्रेज़ी , the पूर्व औपनिवेशिक भाषा , थी  chosen to facilitate the cultural and linguistic unity of the country .
English , however , remains an exclusive preserve of the country 's urban elite , and is not widely spoken in rural areas , which comprise three  quarters of the देशों जनसांख्यिकी  .
Nigeria 's linguistic diversity  is a microcosm of अफ़्रीकी as a पूरे , encompassing तीन प्रमुख अफ़्रीकी  languages families : Afroasiatic , Nilo-Saharan , and Niger–Congo .
Nigeria also has several as-yet unclassified languages ,  ऐसे  as Cen Tuum , which may represent a relic of an even greater diversity prior to the spread of the current language families .
A series of events led to the attack  on पर्ल  Harbor .
War between Japan and the United States had been a possibility that each nation 's military  शक्तियां नियोजित लिये चूंकि the 1920s , हालांकि रियल टेंशन  did not begin until the 1931 invasion of Manchuria by Japan .
Over the next decade , Japan expanded slowly into China , leading to all out war  between the  two in 1937 .
In 1940 Japan invaded French Indochina in an effort to embargo all  imports into  China , including war supplies purchased from the U.S .
This move prompted the United States to embargo all oil exports , leading the Imperial Japanese Navy to estimate that it had less than two years of bunker oil remaining and to support the existing plans to  seize  oil resources in the Dutch East Indies .
Planning had been underway for some time on an attack on the ``  दक्षिणी संसाधन क्षेत्रफल '' to add it to  the Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere that Japan envisioned in the Pacific .
The Philippine islands , at that time an American territory , were  भी a जापानी  target .
The Japanese military concluded that an invasion of the Philippines would provoke an American  सैन्य जवाब  .
Rather than seize and fortify the islands , and wait for the inevitable US counterattack , Japan 's military leaders instead decided on the pre-emptive Pearl Harbor attack , which they assumed would negate the American forces needed  लिये the मुक्ति और reconquest of the आइलैंड्स  .
Planning for the attack  था begun in बहुत जल्दी  1941 , by Admiral Isoroku Yamamoto .
He  आखिरकार जीती assent  from the Naval High Command by , among other things , threatening to resign .
The attack was approved in  the गर्मियाँ  at an Imperial Conference and again at a second Conference in the fall .
simultaneously  over the year , pilots were trained , and ships prepared for its execution .
Authority for the attack was granted at the second Imperial  सम्मेलन if a राजनयिक  result satisfactory to Japan was not reached .
After final approval by  सम्राट  Hirohito the order to attack was issued at the beginning of December .
A common  दफ्तर  stapler
A common  स्कूल  stapler
A stapler is a mechanical device that joins sheets of paper or similar material by driving a thin metal staple through  the  sheets and folding the ends .
Staplers  हैं widely प्रयुक्त in  government , business , offices , homes and schools .
The word `` stapler '' can actually refer to a number of different devices of  varying उपयोग  .
In addition to  joining पेपर चादरें साथ , staplers  can also be used in a surgical setting to join tissue together with surgical staples to close a surgical wound ( much in the same way as stitches or sutures ) .
Typically , most staplers are  प्रयुक्त to  join multiple sheets of paper .
Paper staplers come in two  पृथक प्रकार  : manual and electric .
Manual staplers are normally hand-held , although  मॉडल कि हैं प्रयुक्त जबकि  set on a desk or other surface are not uncommon .
Electric staplers exist in a variety of  अलग  designs and models .
Their primary operating function is to join large  संख्याएँ of पेपर चादरें साथ  in rapid succession .
Some electric staplers can join up to  20 चादरें  at a time .
Swallowing , known scientifically as deglutition , is the process in the human or animal body that makes something pass from the mouth , to the pharynx , and  into the ग्रासनाल , जबकि shutting  the epiglottis .
If this fails   and the object goes through the trachea , then choking or pulmonary aspiration can occur .
In the human body it is controlled by the  swallowing reflex  .
Thaddeus Stevens ( April 4 , 1792 – August  11 , 1868 ) , of पेन्सिलवेनिया , थी a नेता of  the Radical Republican faction of the Republican Party and a fierce opponent of slavery .
he थी  one of the most influential members in the history of Congress .
As  अध्यक्ष of the शक्तिशाली हाउस तरीके और अर्थात् कमेटी  , Stevens , a witty , sarcastic speaker and flamboyant party leader , dominated the House from 1861 until his death .
He wrote  much  of the financial legislation that paid for the American Civil War .
Stevens and Senator Charles Sumner were the prime leaders of the Radical Republicans during the war and  पुनर्निर्माण  era .
Scholarly views of Stevens have swung sharply since his death as  interpretations  of Reconstruction have changed .
इतिहासकारों of the dunning स्कूल ( 1890s–1940s ) आयोजित स्टीवंस  responsible for demanding harsh treatment of the white South and violating American traditions of republicanism , depicting Stevens as a villain for his advocacy of harsh measures in the South such as disfranchising all ex-Confederates .
इस अत्यधिक ऋणात्मक  characterization held sway into the 1950s .
The rise of the neo-abolitionist school in the 1950s led to a strong positive  सराहना of स्टीवंस  ' work on civil rights for Freedmen .
A recent biographer characterizes him as , `` The Great Commoner , savior of free public education in Pennsylvania ,  नेशनल रिपब्लिकन नेता in the struggles  against slavery in the United States and intrepid mainstay of the attempt to secure racial justice for the Freedmen during Reconstruction , the only member of the House of Representatives ever to have been known as the 'dictator ' of Congress . ''
Overview of the  अनुवाद  of eukaryotic messenger RNA
Diagram showing the  अनुवाद  of mRNA and the synthesis of proteins by a ribosome
In molecular biology  और आनुवंशिकी , अनुवाद  is the process through which cellular ribosomes manufacture proteins .
It is  भाग  of the process of gene expression .
In translation , messenger RNA ( mRNA ) produced by  ट्रांसक्रिप्शन is decoded by the राइबोसोम to उपज a  specific amino acid chain , or polypeptide , that will later fold into an active protein .
In bacteria ,  अनुवाद occurs  in the cell 's cytoplasm , where the large and small subunits of the ribosome are located , and bind to the mRNA .
In eukaryotes , translation occurs across the membrane of the endoplasmic reticulum in a process called  vectorial संश्लेषण .
The ribosome  facilitates  decoding by inducing the binding of tRNAs with complementary anticodon sequences to that of the mRNA .
The tRNAs carry specific amino acids that are chained together into a polypeptide as the mRNA passes through and is `` read '' by the ribosome in a fashion  reminiscent to कि of a भण्डार टिकर  and ticker tape .
In many instances , the entire ribosome/mRNA complex binds to the outer  झिल्ली  of the rough endoplasmic reticulum and releases the nascent protein polypeptide inside for later vesicle transport and secretion outside of the cell .
Many types of transcribed RNA , such as transfer  rna , ribosomal rna , और छोटी नाभिकीय  RNA , do not undergo translation into proteins .
Translation proceeds  in four  phases : initiation , elongation , translocation and termination ( all describing the growth of the amino acid chain , or polypeptide that is the product of translation ) .
Amino acids are brought to ribosomes and  समवेत into  proteins .
In activation , the correct amino acid is covalently bonded to the correct transfer RNA (  trna  ) .
The amino acid is joined by its carboxyl group  to  the 3 ' OH of the tRNA by an ester bond .
When the tRNA has an amino acid  linked to  it , it is termed `` charged '' .
Initiation involves the small subunit of the ribosome binding to the 5 ' end  of mrna  with the help of initiation factors ( IF ) .
Termination of the  polypeptide happens जब the  A site of the ribosome faces a stop codon ( UAA , UAG , or UGA ) .
No tRNA  can recognize or  bind to this codon .
Instead , the  रोकें codon induces the बाइंडिंग of a रिलीज  factor protein that prompts the disassembly of the entire ribosome/mRNA complex .
A number of antibiotics act by inhibiting translation ; these include anisomycin , cycloheximide , chloramphenicol ,  tetracycline , streptomycin  , erythromycin , and puromycin , among others .
prokaryotic ribosomes have a अलग  structure from that of eukaryotic ribosomes , and thus antibiotics can specifically target bacterial infections without any detriment to a eukaryotic host 's cells .
A multimedia message on a  मोबाईल  phone .
मल्टीमीडिया messaging सेवा  ( MMS ) is a standard way to send messages that include multimedia content to and from mobile phones .
It extends the core SMS ( Short Message Service ) capability  कि अनुमत  exchange of text messages only up to 160 characters in length .
The most popular use is to send photographs from camera-equipped handsets , although it is also popular as a method of delivering news and  entertainment सामग्री सहित  videos , pictures , text pages and ringtones .
The standard  is विकसित by the  Open Mobile Alliance ( OMA ) , although during development it was part of the 3GPP and WAP groups .
Smallpox was an  संक्रामक  disease unique to humans , caused by either of two virus variants , Variola major and Variola minor .
The disease is also known by the  लैटिन names variola or variola वीरा , निकला इससे  varius ( `` spotted '' ) or varus ( `` pimple '' ) .
The disease was originally known in English as the `` pox '' or `` red plague '' ; the term `` smallpox '' was first used in Britain in the 15th century to distinguish variola from the `` great pox '' (   syphilis ) .
The last naturally  occurring मामला  of smallpox ( Variola minor ) was diagnosed on 26 October 1977 .
smallpox स्थानीयकृत in  small blood vessels of the skin and in the mouth and throat .
In the skin it resulted in a  characteristic maculopapular  rash and , later , raised fluid-filled blisters .
V. major produces a more serious disease and has an overall mortality rate  of 30–35  % .
V. minor causes a milder form of disease ( also  ज्ञात as alastrim  , cottonpox , milkpox , whitepox , and Cuban itch ) which kills about 1 % of its victims .
long-term  complications of V. major infection include characteristic scars , commonly on the face , which occur in 65–85 % of survivors .
Blindness resulting from corneal ulceration and scarring  , और limb deformities due to गठिया और osteomyelitis हैं  less common complications , seen in about 2–5 % of cases .
Smallpox is  believed to have उभरा  in human populations about 10,000 BC .
The earliest physical evidence of it is probably the  pustular खाज on  the mummified body of Pharaoh Ramses V of Egypt .
The disease killed an estimated 400,000 Europeans annually during the closing years of the 18th century ( including  पाँच reigning monarchs  ) , and was responsible for a third of all blindness .
Of all those infected , 20–60 % —and over 80 % of infected children—died  इससे the  disease .
Smallpox was responsible for an estimated 300–500 million deaths during the 20th  सदी .
As recently as 1967 , the World Health Organization ( WHO ) estimated that 15 million people contracted the  बीमारी और कि दो  million died in that year .
बाद  vaccination campaigns throughout the 19th and 20th centuries , the WHO certified the eradication of smallpox in 1979 .
Smallpox is one of two infectious diseases to have been eradicated , the  अन्य होने rinderpest , जिससे थी घोषित  eradicated in 2011 .
`` I Want to Hold Your Hand '' is a song by  the अंग्रेज़ी चट्टान बैंड  the Beatles .
Written by  जॉन लेनन और पॉल mccartney  , and recorded in October 1963 , it was the first Beatles record to be made using four-track equipment .
With advance orders exceeding one million  नक़ल  in the United Kingdom , `` I Want to Hold Your Hand '' would ordinarily have gone straight to the top of the British record charts on its day of release ( 29 November 1963 ) had it not been blocked by the group 's first million seller `` She Loves You `` , the Beatles ' previous UK single , which was having a resurgent spell in the top position following intense media coverage of the group .
Taking  दो सप्ताह to dislodge इसके पूर्ववर्ती , `` i want to थाम  Your Hand '' stayed at number one for five weeks and remained in the UK top fifty for twenty-one weeks in total .
It was also the group 's first American number one , entering the  बिलबोर्ड hot 100 चार्ट on 18 जनवरी 1964 at  number forty-five and starting the British invasion of the American music industry .
By 1 February it held the number one spot — for seven weeks — before being replaced by ``  वो  Loves You '' , a reverse scenario of what had occurred in Britain , and remained in the US charts for a total of fifteen weeks .
`` I Want to Hold Your Hand '' became the  बीटल्स ' best-selling सिंगल  worldwide .
A  gasser थी a प्रकार of hot  rod originating on the dragstrips of the United States in the late 1950s and continued until the early 1970s .
Gassers were based on production models from the 1930s to mid-1960s , which have been stripped of extraneous weight and jacked up using a truck beam axle to provide better weight  वितरण on त्वरण ( बीम  axles are also lighter than an independent front suspension ) , though a raised stock front suspension is common as well .
Common weight reduction techniques include fiberglass body panels , stripped  इंटीरियर्स और plexiglass  windows ( sometimes color tinted ) .
Because they were primarily built for racing , these cars typically had the engine swapped to a larger or more powerful one , the existing stock engine modified ( often heavily   ) or both .
It was very common to fit a Roots supercharger and mechanical fuel injection ,  ऐसे as एक इससे  Algon , Hilborn , or Crower .
With form being dictated by function , their appearance is often very top heavy and ungainly , largely due to front ends  होने उठाया उच्चतर than भण्डार , to  assist in the weight transfer during rapid acceleration ( racing ) .
Having their exhaust pipes exit through the front fender well is a common characteristic of gassers , as is having bodies painted in flamboyant metalflakes , pearls , and candy  finishes complemented by lettering in जंगली फ़ॉन्ट्स  .
The name arose  क्युकी वे competed in a गैसोलीन  -fueled drag racing class , rather than one using methanol or nitromethane .
The gasser is the predecessor  of  the modern Funny Car .
Twelve-lead EKG of  a 26-year-old  male
Electrocardiography ( ECG or EKG from ) is a transthoracic ( across the thorax or chest )  निर्वचन of the विद्युत कार्यकलाप of the दिल  over a period of time , as detected by electrodes attached to the surface of the skin and recorded by a device external to the body .
The  रिकॉर्डिंग उत्पादित by इस noninvasive कार्यविधि  is termed an electrocardiogram ( also ECG or EKG ) .
An ECG is used to measure the rate and regularity of heartbeats , as well as the size and position of the  chambers , the presence of any  damage to the heart , and the effects of drugs or devices used to regulate the heart , such as a pacemaker .
Most ECGs are performed for diagnostic or research purposes on human hearts , but may also be performed  on animals ,  usually for diagnosis of heart abnormalities or research .
Donald John Trump , Sr. ( born June 14 , 1946 ) is  an अमरीकी  business magnate , television personality and author .
He is the chairman and president of The Trump  संगठन  and the founder of Trump Entertainment Resorts .
Trump 's extravagant lifestyle , outspoken manner , and role on the NBC reality show The Apprentice  have बना उसे a well-known हस्ती  who was No . 14 on the 2012 Forbes Celebrity 100 list .
Trump is the son of Fred  ट्रम्प  , a wealthy New York City real-estate developer .
He worked for his father 's firm , Elizabeth Trump & Son , while attending  the व्हार्टन स्कूल of  the University of Pennsylvania , and in 1968 officially joined the company .
He was given control of the company in 1971 and renamed it The Trump  संगठन  .
In 2010 , Trump expressed an interest in becoming a candidate for president of the United  States  in the 2012 election , though in May 2011 , he announced he would not be a candidate .
In December 2011 , Trump was suggested as a possible vice presidential selection by  मिशेल bachmann  , if she were to win the Republican nomination .
`` A Change Is Gon na Come '' is a 1964 single by  r & b singer-songwriter sam cooke  , written and first recorded in 1963 and released under the RCA Victor label shortly after his death in late 1964 .
Though only a modest hit for Cooke in comparison with his previous singles , the song came to  exemplify the 1960s ' सिविल अधिकारों  Movement .
The song has  gained in लोकप्रियता और नाजुक  acclaim in the decades since its release , and is # 12 on Rolling Stone 's 500 Greatest Songs of All Time .
भाप उठती इससे  the Nesjavellir Geothermal Power Station in Iceland .
Geothermal energy is thermal energy generated and  भंडारित  in the Earth .
Thermal energy is the  उर्जा कि determines  the temperature of matter .
The Geothermal energy of the Earth 's crust originates from the original formation of the  ग्रह ( 20 % ) और इससे रेडियोसक्रिय  decay of minerals ( 80 % ) .
The geothermal gradient ,  जिससे is the अंतर  in temperature between the core of the planet and its surface , drives a continuous conduction of thermal energy in the form of heat from the core to the surface .
The  क्रियाशील geothermal  originates from the Greek roots γη ( ge ) , meaning earth , and θερμος ( thermos ) , meaning hot .
At the core of the Earth , thermal energy is created by radioactive decay and temperatures may reach over 5000  °c ( 9,000  °F ) .
ऊष्मा conducts  from the core to surrounding cooler rock .
The high temperature and pressure cause some  चट्टान to melt , बनाना मैग्मा संवहन  upward since it is lighter than the solid rock .
The magma heats rock and water in the crust , sometimes  up to 370 °c ( 700 °f )  .
From hot springs , geothermal energy has been used for bathing since Paleolithic times and for space heating since ancient Roman times , but  it  is now better known for electricity generation .
Worldwide , about 10,715 megawatts ( MW ) of geothermal power is online in  24 देशों  .
An additional 28 gigawatts of direct geothermal heating capacity is installed for district heating ,  स्पेस हीटिंग ,  spas , industrial processes , desalination and agricultural applications .
Geothermal power is cost effective , reliable , sustainable , and environmentally friendly , but has historically been  सीमित  to areas near tectonic plate boundaries .
Recent  technological  advances have dramatically expanded the range and size of viable resources , especially for applications such as home heating , opening a potential for widespread exploitation .
geothermal कुएं रिलीज ग्रीनहाउस  gases trapped deep within the earth , but these emissions are much lower per energy unit than those of fossil fuels .
As a result , geothermal power has the potential to help  mitigate वैश्विक वार्मिंग  if widely deployed in place of fossil fuels .
The Earth 's  geothermal संसाधन  are theoretically more than adequate to supply humanity 's energy needs , but only a very small fraction may be profitably exploited .
Drilling and  खोजी लिये  deep resources is very expensive .
forecasts लिये the भविष्य of geothermal शक्ति निर्भर on assumptions परिचय प्रौद्योगिकी , उर्जा कीमतें , subsidies , और ब्याज दरों .
Pilot programs like EWEB 's  ग्राहक ऑप्ट in ग्रीन शक्ति  Program show that customers would be willing to pay a little more for a renewable energy source like geothermal .
But as a result of government assisted research and industry experience , the cost of generating geothermal power has decreased by 25 % over the  past two  decades .
In 2001 , geothermal energy cost between two and ten  सेंट प्रति सम्पात  .
Ownership of property may be private , collective , or common and  the प्रॉपर्टी may be वस्तुएँ  , land/real estate , or intellectual property .
determining स्वामित्व  in law involves determining who has certain rights and duties over the property .
These  अधिकारों और कर्तव्य  , sometimes called a 'bundle of rights ' , can be separated and held by different parties .
The question of ownership reaches back to the ancient philosophers , Plato and Aristotle , who held different opinions on  the विषय .
Plato ( 428/427 BC – 348/347 BC ) thought  निजी प्रॉपर्टी निर्मित  divisive inequalities , while Aristotle ( 384 BC – 322 BC ) thought private property enabled people to receive the full benefit of their labor .
Private property can circumvent what is  अभी referred  to as the “ tragedy of the commons ” problem , where people tend to degrade common property more than they do private property .
Given a short-sighted owner , however , a private property system can make these tragedies worse—for example , a private owner of a piece of oil-rich property , depending on his worldview , might be more interested in short-term financial  लाभ than वृद्धिशील उपयोग साथ an नजर toward अन्य 's चिंताएं ( e.g.  , those of future generations , the disenfranchised , etc . ) .
While Aristotle justified the existence of private ownership , he left  open questions of ( 1 ) how  to allocate property between what is private and common and ( 2 ) how to allocate the private property within society .
Over  the सहस्राब्दियों , और  across cultures what can be property and how it is regarded culturally have varied widely .
Ownership is the basis for many other concepts that form the foundations of ancient and modern societies such  as धन , व्यापार , कर्ज़ , दिवालियापन ,  the criminality of theft , and private vs. public property .
Ownership is the key building block in the development of the capitalist socio-economic   system .
Adam Smith stated that one of the sacred laws of justice was to guard  a व्यक्ति  's property and possessions .
The process and mechanics of ownership are fairly complex : one can gain , transfer and  खोना स्वामित्व of प्रॉपर्टी in a क्रमांक  of ways .
To acquire property one can purchase it with money ,  व्यापार it लिये अन्य प्रॉपर्टी , प्राप्त it as  a gift , steal it , find it , make , it or homestead it .
One can transfer or  खोना स्वामित्व of प्रॉपर्टी by selling it लिये  money , exchanging it for other property , giving it as a gift , being robbed of it , it , or having it stripped from one 's ownership through legal means such as eviction , foreclosure , seizure , or taking .
Ownership is  self-propagating in कि the  owner of any property will also own the economic benefits of that property .
``  कया 's my नाम ? '' is a सोंग अंकित by barbadian रिकॉर्डिंग कलाकार रिहाना , लिये उसके पांचवां स्टुडियो एल्बम लाउड ( 2010 ) .
featuring अतिथि vocals  from Canadian rapper Drake , the song was released as the second single from Loud on October 29 , 2010 through Def Jam Recordings .
The  r  & B song was produced by the Norwegian production duo StarGate , and was written by the duo along with Ester Dean , Traci Hale , and Drake .
Lyrically  , it  incorporates themes of sexual intercourse and romance .
Music critics gave the song positive reviews , citing it some of Rihanna 's best vocal work to date ; there was a praise regarding its romantic  प्रकृति , as खूब  as its sexual tones .
`` What 's My Name ? '' was a commercial success and topped the US Billboard Hot 100 chart , giving Rihanna her third number-one single in 2010 , as  खूब as  her eighth overall on the chart .
The song also topped the charts in Hungary and the United Kingdom and reached the top five in Canada  , आयरलैंड ,  New Zealand , Norway and Slovakia .
The song received  a  nomination at the 54th Grammy Awards for Best Rap/Sung Collaboration .
An accompanying music video , directed by Philip  andelman , portrays a रोमांटिक एनकाउंटर  between Rihanna and Drake in a grocery store along with romantic scenes between the pair and Rihanna walking through Manhattan 's Lower East Side .
`` What 's My Name ? '' was promoted with live performances across both sides of the Atlantic , including Saturday Night Live in America and the series  सात finale of the x फ़ैक्टर in the  United Kingdom .
The latter performance resulted in an  छानबीन इससे  the country 's media regulator , Ofcom , for the raunchy nature of Rihanna 's outfit .
A mathematical constant is a  खास क्रमांक , प्रायः a रियल  number , that is `` significantly interesting in some way '' .
Constants arise in many different areas of mathematics , with constants  ऐसे as e ( गणितीय निरंतर ) | और  pi| occurring in such diverse contexts as geometry , number theory and calculus .
What it means for a constant to arise `` naturally '' , and what makes a  निरंतर `` दिलचस्प  '' , is ultimately a matter of taste , and some mathematical constants are notable more for historical reasons than for their intrinsic mathematical interest .
The more popular constants have been studied throughout the ages and  computed to अनेक  decimal places .
All mathematical constants are definable numbers and usually are also computable numbers  ( chaitin 's निरंतर होने a significant  exception ) .
Elections to the United States  सीनेट  were held on November 2 , 2010 , for 37 of the United States Senate 's 100 seats .
( A special election on January 19 , 2010 in Massachusetts was held earlier in  the साल  . )
Thirty-four of the seats were for six-year terms to the Senate 's `` class three '' , and  तीन यहूद  special elections for shorter terms .
Of the 37 elections , 19 featured incumbent Democrats ( 7 of whom retired or were defeated in the primary ) and 18 featured incumbent Republicans ( eight of whom retired or  यहूद पराजित in the  primary ) .
After  the पिछला  elections ( in 2008 ) , the United States Senate was composed of 58 Democrats , 40 Republicans , and 2 independents who caucus with the Democrats .
Republicans won four seats held by  retiring डेमोक्रेट और republicans  defeated two incumbent Democrats .
This was the largest number of Republicans  gains चूंकि the 1994 चुनावों  and also the first time since that election that Republicans successfully defended all of their own seats .
This was the fourth consecutive election of `` class 3 '' senators where Democrats have failed to gain seats and the third  लगातार  mid-term election held in a president 's first term where Republicans have picked-up seats .
Despite these Republican wins , however , the Democrats retained a majority of the Senate with 51 seats   plus 2 independents who caucus with them , compared to the 47 Republicans .
A solstice is an astronomical event that  occurs  twice each year as the Sun reaches its highest or lowest excursion relative to the celestial equator on the celestial sphere .
As a result , on the day of the solstice , the Sun appears to have reached its highest or lowest annual altitude in the sky above the horizon  at लोकल सौर  noon .
The word solstice is derived from the Latin sol ( sun ) and sistere ( to stand still ) , because at the solstices , the Sun stands still in declination ; that is , the seasonal movement of the Sun 's path ( as seen from Earth ) comes to a stop before  reversing  direction .
The solstices , together with the equinoxes , are  कनेक्ट साथ  the seasons .
In many cultures the solstices mark either the beginning or the midpoint  of शीत और गर्मियाँ  .
The term solstice can also be used  in a broader  sense , as the date ( day ) when this occurs .
The day of the solstice is   either the longest day of the year ( in summer ) or the shortest day of the year ( in winter ) for any place outside of the tropics .
Jerry Lee Lewis ( born September 29 , 1935 ) is an American rock and roll and country music singer-songwriter and  pianist  .
He is known by the nickname `` The Killer '' and is often viewed as “rock & roll 's  पहला ग्रेट  wild man” .
An early pioneer of rock and roll music , in 1956  लुईस बना उसके  first recordings at Sun Records .
`` Crazy Arms `` sold 300,000 copies in the South , but it  थी उसके 1957 hit `` पूरे  Lotta Shakin ' Going On `` that shot Lewis to fame worldwide .
Lewis followed this in that same year when he recorded songs such as `` Great Balls of Fire `` , ``   Breathless `` and `` High School Confidential `` .
Lewis  बेची अधिक रिकॉर्ड  than Elvis Presley at this time .
However , Lewis ' rock 'n ' roll career faltered in  the वेक of उसके विवाह  to his young cousin .
He had little success in the charts  following the कांड  and his popularity quickly faded .
His live performance fees plummeted from $ 10,000 per  रात्रि to $  250 .
in the meantime  he was determined to gain back some of his popularity .
During the early 60’s he did n't  have much  chart success with few exceptions such as `` What 'd I Say `` .
His live  प्रदर्शन  at this time were increasingly wild and energetic .
His album Live at the Star Club , Hamburg from 1964 is often regarded by many music journalists and fans as one of the wildest and  महानतम चट्टान और  roll concert albums ever .
After recording songs such as `` I 'm on Fire '' for several years with little success , in 1968 Lewis  बना a परिवर्तन into देश  music and had hits with songs such as `` Another Place , Another Time '' .
This reignited his career and throughout  the लेट '60s और '70s  he regularly topped the country-western charts .
His # 1  देश  hits included `` To Make Love Sweeter For You `` , `` There Must Be More to Love Than This `` , `` Would You Take Another Chance on Me `` and `` Me And Bobby McGee `` .
Lewis 's successes continued  throughout the दशक और he embraced उसके चट्टान  'n ' roll past with songs such as a cover of the Big Bopper 's `` Chantilly Lace `` and `` Rockin ' My Life Away `` .
In the 21st  सदी  Lewis continues to tour to audiences around the world and still releases new albums .
One such album , titled Last Man Standing , is his best selling to date at over a million  नक़ल  sold worldwide .
This was followed by  औसत  Old Man which has received some of the best sales of Lewis’s career .
Lewis has had a dozen gold records in both rock and country ,  जीती अनेक ग्रैमी पुरस्कार , सहित a आजीवन  Achievement Award .
Lewis was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 1986  , और उसके pioneering  contribution to the genre has been recognized by the Rockabilly Hall of Fame .
In 1989 , his life was chronicled in the movie Great Balls of Fire ,  अभिनीत डेनिस quaid  .
In  2003 , रोलिंग स्टोन पत्रिका सूचीबद्ध उसके बक्सा नियत सब कातिल , no फिलर : the anthology क्रमांक 242 on उनके सूची of `` 500 महानतम एल्बम of सब समय `` .
In 2004 , they  क्रमित  him number 24 on their list of the 100 Greatest Artists of All Time .
Lewis is the last surviving member of Sun Records '  लाख डालर quartet और the क्लास of '55 एल्बम  , which also included Johnny Cash , Carl Perkins , Roy Orbison and Elvis Presley .
Henry Louis Stephens , untitled watercolor ( 1863 ) of a man reading a newspaper with  शीर्षक `` अध्यक्षीय  Proclamation / Slavery '' .
The Emancipation  उदघोषणा थी an अनुक्रम  issued to all segments of the Executive branch ( including the Army and Navy ) of the United States by President Abraham Lincoln on January 1 , 1863 , during the American Civil War .
It was based on the president 's constitutional  प्राधिकार as कमांडर  in chief of the armed forces ; it was not a law passed by Congress .
It proclaimed all those enslaved in Confederate territory to be forever free , and ordered the Army ( and all segments of  the कार्यपालिका शाखा ) to दावत as फ़्री सब those enslaved in टेन राज्य कि यहूद  still in rebellion , thus applying to 3.1 million of the 4 million slaves in the U.S .
The Proclamation could not be enforced in areas still under rebellion , but as the army took  कंट्रोल of confederate regions , the स्लेव  in those regions were emancipated rather than returned to their masters .
From 20,000 to 50,000 former slaves in regions where rebellion had already been subdued were immediately emancipated , and over 3 million more  were  emancipated as the Union army advanced .
The Proclamation did not apply to the five slave states that were not in rebellion , nor  to सबसे regions  already controlled by the Union army ; emancipation there would come after separate state actions and/or the December 1865 ratification of the Thirteenth Amendment , which made slavery illegal everywhere in the U.S .
The Proclamation did not compensate the owners , did not itself outlaw slavery , and did not make the ex-slaves  ( पुकारा freedmen ) नागरिकों  .
It made the eradication of slavery an explicit  युद्ध  goal , in addition to the goal of reuniting the Union .
On September 22 , 1862 ,  lincoln था जारी a प्रारंभिक उदघोषणा कि he होता अनुक्रम the emancipation  of all slaves in any state of the Confederate States of America that did not return to Union control by January 1 , 1863 .
None returned , and the order , signed and issued January 1 , 1863 , took effect except in  स्थितियाँ जहाँ the संघ था already  mostly regained control .
The Proclamation outraged white Southerners who envisioned  a रेस युद्ध , angered कुछ उत्तरी  Democrats , energized anti-slavery forces , and weakened forces in Europe that wanted to intervene to help the Confederacy .
It also lifted the spirits of African Americans both in the Southern and Northern  राज्य , और led to अनेक स्लेव escaping उनके मास्टर्स और कार्यशील पीछे  Union lines in order to have their emancipation enforced .
Sucker Punch is a 2011 American fantasy  कार्रवाई फिल्मी  directed by Zack Snyder and co-written by him and Steve Shibuya .
It  is  Snyder 's first film based on an original script .
The film stars  एमिली ब्राउनिंग , abbie  Cornish , Jena Malone , Vanessa Hudgens , Jamie Chung , and Carla Gugino .
the कथानक फ़ॉलो the  fantasies of a young woman who is committed to a mental institution , as she makes a plan to escape the hospital before suffering a lobotomy .
The film was released in both conventional and IMAX  थिएटर in the संयुक्त राज्य at मध्यरात्रि  on March 25 , 2011 .
It received generally negative reviews from critics , but was a  मॉडरेट  box office success .
Front and back of Canon   PowerShot A95 , a typical pocket-size digital camera
Haselblad  503cw साथ ixpress v96c  digital back , an example of a professional digital camera system
A digital camera ( or digicam ) is a camera that takes   video or still photographs by recording images on an electronic image sensor .
Most cameras sold today are digital , and digital  कैमरे हैं incorporated  into many devices ranging from PDAs and mobile phones ( called camera phones ) to vehicles .
Digital and film cameras share an optical system , typically using a  लेंस साथ a परिवर्तनीय diaphragm to  focus light onto an image pickup device .
The diaphragm and shutter admit the correct amount of light to the imager , just as with film but the image  पिकअप  device is electronic rather than chemical .
However , unlike film cameras , digital cameras can  प्रदर्शक बिंब on a स्क्रीन तत्काल  after being recorded , and store and delete images from memory .
Many digital cameras  can भी  record moving video with sound .
कुछ डिजिटल कैमरे can  crop and stitch pictures and perform other elementary image editing .
The inside and front of a  डेल  PowerEdge web server , a computer designed for rack mounting
Multiple web servers may be  प्रयुक्त लिये a ऊँची  traffic website , here four Sun Fire X4200 servers are installed together
Web server can refer  to either the हार्डवेयर ( the कंप्यूटर ) or  the software ( the computer application ) that helps to deliver web content that can be accessed through the Internet .
The most common use of  वेब सर्वर is to मेजबान वेबसाइटों  , but there are other uses such as gaming , data storage or running enterprise applications .
The American Red Cross ( ARC ) , also known as the American National Red Cross , is a humanitarian organization that provides emergency assistance  , विपत्ति राहत और शिक्षा  inside the United States .
It is the designated U.S. affiliate of the International  संघ  of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies .
Today , in addition to domestic disaster relief , the  अमरीकी रेड क्रॉस offers सेवाएं in पाँच अन्य क्षेत्रों : जातियाँ सेवाएं कि  help the needy ; communications services and comfort for military members and their family members ; the collection , processing and distribution of blood and blood products ; educational programs on preparedness , health , and safety ; and international relief and development programs .
Issued a corporate charter by the United States  कॉंग्रेस अंतर्गत शीर्षक 36 of the संयुक्त  States Code , Section 3001 , the American National Red Cross is governed by volunteers and supported by community donations , income from health and safety training and products , and income from blood products .
The American Red Cross is headquartered in  वॉशिंगटन  , D.C .
the अध्यक्ष of the फलक of राज्यपालों , सेवारत उसके दूसरी three-year पद , is bonnie mcelveen-hunter .
The current President and Chief Executive  अधिकारी is गेल J.  McGovern .
A  मुर्गा  in Kosovo
A rooster , showing  wattles  , earlobes and comb
A rooster crowing ( with  ऑडियो  )
सही
A rooster ( also called a cockerel or cock  )  is a male gallinaceous bird .
It usually refers to a  पुरूष मुर्गा  ( Gallus gallus ) .
Immature male chickens less than  एक साल बूढ़ा हैं  called cockerels .
The term `` rooster '' originates in the United States , and the term is widely  प्रयुक्त throughout  North America , as well as Australia and New Zealand .
In the United Kingdom and Ireland the older term ``  cockerel '' is अधिक  commonly used .
`` Cock '' is  in सामान्य उपयोग  as the name for a male of other species of bird , for example `` Cock sparrow '' .
`` Roosting '' is  the कार्रवाई of perching  aloft to sleep at night , and is done by both sexes .
The rooster is polygamous , but can not guard several  nests of अंडे at एकबार  .
He guards the general area where his hens are  nesting , और होगा आक्रमण अन्य roosters कि  enter his territory .
During the daytime , he usually sits on a high perch , usually 3–5 feet off the  मैदान to serve  as a lookout for his flock .
He will  ध्वनि a distinctive  alarm call if predators are nearby .
The  पोकीमॉन व्यापार  Card Game ( Pokémon TCG ) is a collectible card game based on the Pokémon video game series , first published in October 1996 by Media Factory in Japan .
In  the us , it  was initially published by Wizards of the Coast , the company that produces , in December 1998 .
Nintendo took over publishing in  जून 2003  .
It is  एक of निन्टेंडो  's last remaining strong links to its heritage as a playing card company .
Land Rover is a British car manufacturer with its headquarters in Gaydon , Warwickshire , United  किंगडम जिससे specialises in four-wheel-drive  vehicles .
It is part of the Jaguar Land Rover group , a  subsidiary of tata  Motors of India .
It is the  दूसरी oldest  four-wheel-drive car brand in the world ( after Jeep ) .
The Land Rover name was originally used by the Rover Company for one specific vehicle model  ,  named simply the Land Rover , launched by Rover in 1948 .
Over the following years it developed into a marque encompassing a range of four-wheel-drive models , including the Defender  , Discovery ,  Freelander , Range Rover , Range Rover Sport and Range Rover Evoque .
Land  रोवर्स हैं फिलहाल  assembled in the company 's Halewood and Solihull plants , with research and development taking place at JLR 's Gaydon and Whitley engineering centres .
जमीन रोवर बेची  194,000 vehicles worldwide in 2009 .
Although the brand originates from the original 1948 model , Land Rover as a company has only existed  चूंकि 1978  .
Prior to this , it was a product line of the Rover Company  जिससे थी subsequently अवशोषित  into the Rover-Triumph division of the British Leyland Motor Corporation ( BL ) following Leyland Motor Corporation ’s takeover of Rover in 1967 .
The ongoing commercial success of the original Land Rover series models , and latterly the Range Rover in the 1970s in the midst of BL’s well documented business troubles prompted the establishment of a separate Land Rover company but still under the BL umbrella , remaining part of the subsequent  रोवर समूह in 1988 , अंतर्गत the स्वामित्व  of British Aerospace after the remains of British Leyland were broken up and privatised .
In 1994 Rover Group plc was  acquired by  BMW .
In 2000 , Rover Group was broken-up by BMW and  जमीन रोवर थी बेची to घाट  Motor Company , becoming part of its Premier Automotive Group .
In 2006 Ford  खरीदा the  Rover brand from BMW for around £6 million .
This reunited the Rover and Land Rover brands for the first time since 2000 when  the रोवर समूह  was broken up by BMW .
In  जून 2008 ,  Ford sold both Land Rover and Jaguar Cars to Tata Motors .
This sale  भी शामिल  the dormant Rover brand
The cover of the first DVD compilation released by Aniplex of The New Captain Shūsuke  amagai  arc
the नवीं ऋतु  of the Bleach anime series is named .
The series is based on Tite Kubo  's manga  with same name .
The episodes are  निर्देशित by noriyuki  Abe and produced by TV Tokyo , Dentsu , and Studio Pierrot .
The episodes ' plot  focuses on the परिचय of a नई आत्मा reaper कप्तान  , Shūsuke Amagai , and the mystery surrounding the Kasumiōji clan , one of the families that constitute the nobility of Soul Society .
The  ऋतु  began airing on April 23 , 2008 in Japan on TV Tokyo and ended on October 7 , 2008 .
The English adaptation of the  ब्लीच दुश्मनी is licensed by viz  Media , and this arc began airing on August 28 , 2010 on Cartoon Network 's Adult Swim , and finished on January 29 , 2011 .
Five DVD compilations , each containing four episodes of the season , have been released by Aniplex ; the first DVD compilation  was  released on November 26 , 2008 and the fifth on March 25 , 2009 .
A DVD  बक्सा होगा  be published by Viz Media on December 13 , 2011 .
The episodes use  तीन टुकड़े  of theme music : one opening theme and two closing themes .
The opening theme is ``  chu-bura  `` by Kelun .
The first closing theme is `` Orange '' by Lil'B , used for episodes 168 to 179 , and the  second closing  theme is `` Gallop '' by pe'zmoku , used for the remainder of the episodes .
The regulation of prostitution in the United States is not among the enumerated powers of the federal government ; Under the  दसवाँ amendment to the संयुक्त  States Constitution , it is therefore exclusively the domain of the states to permit , prohibit , or otherwise regulate commercial sex , except insofar as Congress may regulate it as part of interstate commerce with laws like the Mann Act .
In most states , prostitution is  माना a misdemeanor  in the category of public order crime , a crime that disrupts the order of a community .
It was at one time considered  to be a  vagrancy crime .
Currently , Nevada is the only state to allow brothel  वेश्यावृति  , the terms of which are stipulated in the Nevada Revised Statutes .
Only 8 counties currently contain   active brothels .
All forms of  वेश्यावृति  are illegal in Clark County ( which contains the Las Vegas–Paradise metropolitan area ) , Washoe County ( which contains Reno ) , Carson City , Douglas County , and Lincoln County .
The  other  counties theoretically allow brothel prostitution , but some of these counties currently have no active brothels .
Street prostitution , `` pandering , '' and living off of the proceeds of a prostitute remain illegal  अंतर्गत नेवाडा विधि , as elsewhere  in the country .
As with other countries , prostitution  in the संयुक्त राज्य can be विभाजित into तीन व्यापक  categories : street prostitution , brothel prostitution , and escort prostitution .
The East  coast of the संयुक्त राज्य , भी ज्ञात as the पूर्वी seaboard or the अटलांटिक  Seaboard and commonly shortened to East Coast , refers to the easternmost coast of the United States along the Atlantic Ocean .
The states which have shoreline on the East Coast are , from north to south  , the  U.S. states of Maine , New Hampshire , Massachusetts , Rhode Island , Connecticut , New York , New Jersey , Delaware , Maryland , Virginia , North Carolina , South Carolina , Georgia , and Florida .
Richard Milhous Nixon ( January 9 , 1913 – April 22 , 1994 ) was the 37th President of the United States , serving from 1969 to 1974 , when he became the  तभी अध्यक्ष to इस्तीफा  the office .
Nixon had  previously  served as a Republican U.S. representative and senator from California and as the 36th Vice President of the United States from 1953 to 1961 .
Nixon was born in Yorba Linda ,  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  .
He graduated from Whittier College in  1934  and Duke University School of Law in 1937 , returning to California to practice law .
He and his wife , Pat Nixon , moved to  वॉशिंगटन to कार्य लिये the  federal government in 1942 .
He subsequently served in the  संयुक्त  States Navy during World War II .
Nixon was elected in California to the House  of प्रतिनिधि  in 1946 and to the Senate in 1950 .
His pursuit of the Alger Hiss case  स्थापित  his reputation as a leading anti-communist , and elevated him to national prominence .
He was the running mate of Dwight D. Eisenhower , the  रिपब्लिकन पार्टी अध्यक्षीय  nominee in the 1952 election .
Nixon  परोसा लिये  eight years as vice president .
He waged an unsuccessful presidential campaign in 1960 , narrowly losing to John F. Kennedy , and lost  a रेस लिये राज्यपाल of कैलिफ़ोर्निया  in 1962 .
In 1968 , he ran again for the  प्रेसिडेंसी और थी निर्वाचित  .
Although Nixon initially escalated America 's involvement in the Vietnam War , he subsequently ended  u.S. भागीदारी in 1973 .
Nixon 's visit to the People 's Republic of China in 1972 opened diplomatic relations between the two nations , and he   initiated détente and the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty with the Soviet Union the same year .
Domestically ,  उसके प्रशासन  generally embraced policies that transferred power from Washington to the states .
among अन्य बाते  , he launched initiatives to fight cancer and illegal drugs , imposed wage and price controls , enforced desegregation of some Southern schools , and established the Environmental Protection Agency .
Though he presided over the lunar landings  शुरूआत साथ  Apollo 11 , he scaled back manned space exploration .
He was re-elected  by a  landslide in 1972 .
Nixon 's second term saw an Arab oil embargo , the resignation  of उसके वाइस  president , Spiro Agnew , and a continuing series of revelations about the Watergate scandal and other misconduct by members of the administration .
The scandal escalated , costing Nixon much of his political support , and on August 9 , 1974 , he resigned in the face of almost certain  महाभियोग  and removal from office .
After his resignation , he  controversially प्राप्त a pardon  issued by his successor , Gerald Ford .
In retirement ,  निक्सन 's कार्य as an elder  statesman , authoring several books and undertaking many foreign trips , helped to rehabilitate his public image .
He suffered a debilitating stroke on April  18 , 1994 , और died  four days later at the age of 81 .
Sertraline hydrochloride (  व्यापार names zoloft ,  Lustral ) is an antidepressant of the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor ( SSRI ) class .
It was  introduced to the मार्केट  by Pfizer in 1991 .
Sertraline is primarily prescribed  लिये प्रमुख depressive  disorder in adult outpatients as well as obsessive–compulsive , panic , and social anxiety disorders in both adults and children .
In 2011 , it was the second-most prescribed antidepressant on the U.S. retail market , with 37,208,000  prescriptions  .
The efficacy of sertraline for depression is similar to  कि of पुरानी tricyclic antidepressants  , but its side effects are much less pronounced .
Differences with newer antidepressants are subtler and also mostly  confined to पक्ष प्रभाव  .
Evidence suggests that sertraline may work better than fluoxetine ( Prozac )  लिये कुछ subtypes  of depression .
Treatment of panic disorder with sertraline results in a significant decrease of  the क्रमांक of दहशत हमले और in improved विशेषता  of life .
For obsessive-compulsive disorder , sertraline is not as effective as cognitive  behavioral चिकित्सा ; the बेहतरीन  results have been achieved by combining these two treatments .
Although approved for social  phobia और posttraumatic तनाव विकार  , sertraline leads to only modest improvement in these conditions .
Sertraline also alleviates the symptoms of premenstrual dysphoric disorder and can be used in sub-therapeutic doses or  intermittently लिये इसके उपचार  .
Sertraline shares the common side effects and contraindications of other SSRIs , with high rates of nausea , diarrhea , insomnia , and sexual side effects ; however  , it does not cause weight gain  , and its effects on both cognition and vigilance are relatively mild .
In pregnant women taking sertraline , the drug was present in significant concentrations in fetal blood , and was also associated with a  उच्चतर रेट of विभिन्न जनम दोषों  .
Similarly to other antidepressants , the use of sertraline  लिये अवसाद  may be associated with a higher rate of suicidality .
The Five Heartbeats is a 1991 musical drama film directed by Robert Townsend , who co-wrote the script with Keenan Ivory  wayans  .
Distributed by 20th Century Fox , the film 's main cast includes Townsend , Michael Wright , Leon Robinson , Harry J. Lennix , Tico Wells , Harold  निकोलस of the निकोलस भाइयो , और diahann कैरल  .
The plot of the film ( which is loosely based on the lives of several artists : The Dells , The Temptations , Four Tops ,  विल्सन पिकेट , जेम्स भूरा , फ्रेंकी lymon , sam cooke और अन्य ) फ़ॉलो  the three decade career of the R & B vocal group The Five Heartbeats .
The film depicts the rise and fall of a Motown inspired soul act through the eyes of the film 's main protagonist ,  डोनाल्ड `` बतख ''  Matthews ( portrayed by Townsend ) , who serves as a narrator throughout the film .
However , a majority of the cinema is presented in a consecutive time  लकीर as  opposed to traditional flash backs .
The film includes a significant amount of original music conceived by various artists for the film 's soundtrack , including singles such as `` A Heart Is a House for Love  `` ,  `` We Have n't Finished Yet '' , and `` Nothing But Love '' .
The film was released to most North  अमरीकी ऑडियंस कूच 29 , 1991  however it was not made available to audiences in other continents until 2002 when a DVD was released prior to another DVD release in 2006 for the film 's 15th anniversary .
The movie received mixed reviews from  आलोचकों  .
Secretariat ( March 30 , 1970 – October 4 , 1989 ) was an American Thoroughbred racehorse that in 1973 became the first U.S .  ट्रिपल  Crown champion in 25 years .
He set race records in all three events in the Series — the Kentucky Derby ( 1:59.4 ) ,  the  Preakness Stakes ( 1:53 ) , and the Belmont Stakes ( 2:24 ) — records that still stand today .
He is considered to be one of the greatest Thoroughbreds of all  समय  .
In 1999 , ESPN ranked Secretariat the 35th best athlete of the 20th  सदी  , the highest ranking racehorse on the list URL_http .
He ranked second behind Man o ' War in The Blood-Horse 's  सूची  of the Top 100 U.S. Racehorses of the 20th Century .
Secretariat was  sired  by Bold Ruler out of Somethingroyal , by Princequillo .
He was  foaled at the मर्ग  in Caroline County , Virginia .
Like  उसके प्रसिद्ध पूर्ववर्ती  Man o ' War , Secretariat was a large chestnut colt and was given the same nickname , `` Big Red . ''
Secretariat 's grandsire , Nasrullah , is also the  great-great-grandsire of 1977  Triple Crown winner Seattle Slew .
Owned by Penny Chenery ,  he थी प्रशिक्षित by lucien laurin और मुख्यतः ridden by कनाडाई  jockey Ron Turcotte , along with apprentice jockey Paul Feliciano ( first two races ) , and veteran Eddie Maple ( last race ) .
He raced in Chenery 's Meadow Stable 's blue and white checkered colors and his  दूल्हे  was Eddie Sweat .
Secretariat  stood लगभग लम्बा  , and weighed , with a 75-inch girth , in his racing prime .
A typical 12 V , 40 Ah Lead-acid car  बैटरी
An  ऑटोमोटिव बैटरी is a प्रकार of rechargeable बैटरी कि आपूर्तियाँ इलेक्ट्रिक उर्जा to an ऑटोमोबाइल .
Usually this refers to an SLI battery ( starting , lighting , ignition ) to power the starter motor , the lights , and  the प्रज्वलन प्रणाली  of a vehicle’s engine .
Automotive  sli बैटरी  are usually lead-acid type , and are made of six galvanic cells in series to provide a 12 volt system .
Each  कोशिका  provides 2.1 volts for a total of 12.6 volt at full charge .
Heavy vehicles such as highway trucks or tractors , often equipped with diesel engines , may have two batteries in series for a 24 volt system  , or  may have parallel strings of batteries .
Lead-acid batteries are made up of plates of lead and separate plates of lead  डाइऑक्साइड , जिससे हैं submerged  into an electrolyte solution of about 38 % sulfuric acid and 62 % water .
This causes a chemical reaction that  रिलीज electrons  , allowing them to flow through conductors to produce electricity .
As the battery discharges , the acid of the electrolyte reacts with the materials of the plates , changing their surface to lead  सल्फेट  .
When the battery is recharged ,  the रासायनिक  reaction is reversed : the lead sulfate reforms into lead dioxide and lead .
साथ the  plates restored to their original condition , the process may now be repeated .
Battery recycling of automotive batteries reduces the need for resources required for manufacture of new batteries  , diverts विषाक्त सीसे इससे landfills , और रोकता  risk of improper disposal .
Full-time employment is employment in which a person  works a न्यूनतम  number of hours defined as such by his/her employer .
Full-time employment often comes with benefits that are not typically offered to part-time ,  अस्थाई , or लचीली  workers , such as annual leave , sickleave , and health insurance .
Full-time jobs are often considered  करियर  .
They  generally अदा अधिक than part-time  jobs , and usually carry more hours per week .
The Fair Labor Standards Act ( FLSA ) does not  define  full-time employment or part-time employment .
This is a matter   generally to be determined by the employer ( US Department of Labor ) .
The definition by employer can vary and is  generally प्रकाशित in  a company 's Employee Handbook .
Companies commonly  आवश्यकता इससे 30–35 or 40 घंटों प्रति सप्ताह to  be defined as full-time and therefore eligible for benefits .
Full-Time status varies between company and is often based on the shift  the कर्मचारी जरूर कार्य दौरान प्रत्येक कार्य  week .
The ``  मानक '' कार्य  week consists of five eight-hour days , commonly served between 9:00AM to 5:00PM totaling 40 hours .
While a four-day week generally consists of four  ten-hour दिनों ;  it may also consist of as little as nine hours for a total of a 36 hour work week .
Twelve-hour shifts are often three days per week , unless the company has the intention of paying out the employee  ओवरटाइम  .
Overtime is legally paid out anytime an employee  works  more than 40 hours per week .
The legal minimum   for overtime starts at Base Pay + One-Half .
The increased payout is considered to compensate slightly for  the increased थकान जिससे a व्यक्ति  experiences on such long shifts .
Shifts can also be very irregular , as in retail  , लकिन हैं  still full-time if the required number of hours is reached .
There are some situations where a  व्यक्ति जो needs full-time कार्य is dropped to part-time  , which is sometimes a form of constructive dismissal to avoid paying unemployment benefits to a laid-off worker .
Seahorse is the title given to 54 species of marine fish  in the genus  Hippocampus .
`` Hippocampus '' comes from the Ancient  यूनानी hippos अर्थ  `` horse '' and kampos meaning `` sea monster '' .
The Controlled Substances Act  ( CSA  ) was enacted into law by the Congress of the United States as Title II of the Comprehensive Drug Abuse Prevention and Control Act of 1970 .
the सीएसए is the  federal U.S. drug policy under which the manufacture , importation , possession , use and distribution of certain substances is regulated .
The Act also  परोसा as the नेशनल implementing  legislation for the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs .
The legislation created five Schedules ( classifications ) , with  varying  qualifications for a substance to be included in each .
Two federal agencies , the Drug Enforcement Administration and the Food and Drug Administration , determine which substances are added to or removed from the various schedules , though the statute passed by Congress created the initial listing , and Congress has sometimes scheduled other substances through legislation such as the Hillory J. Farias and Samantha Reid  date-rape रोकथाम अधिनियम of 2000 , जिससे  placed gamma hydroxybutyrate in Schedule I . Classification decisions are required to be made on criteria including potential for abuse ( an undefined term ) , currently accepted medical use in treatment in the United States , and international treaties .
माया  numerals
Maya numerals are a vigesimal ( base - twenty ) numeral system used by the  pre-columbian  Maya civilization .
The numerals are made up of  तीन प्रतीकों ; शून्य  ( shell shape ) , one ( a dot ) and five ( a bar ) .
For example , thirteen is written as three dots in a horizontal row above   two horizontal lines stacked above each other .
Lyndon Baines Johnson ( August 27 , 1908 – January 22 , 1973 ) , often referred to as LBJ , was the 36th President of the United States (  1963–1969 ) , a स्थिति he assumed बाद उसके सेवा  as the 37th Vice President of the United States ( 1961–1963 ) .
He is  एक of तभी  four people who served in all four elected federal offices of the United States : Representative , Senator , Vice President , and President .
Johnson , a Democrat from Texas , served as a United States Representative from  1937–1949 और as a सीनेटर इससे 1949–1961  , including six years as United States Senate Majority Leader , two as Senate Minority Leader and two as Senate Majority Whip .
After campaigning unsuccessfully for the Democratic nomination in 1960 , Johnson was asked by John F. Kennedy to be  उसके कार्यशील mate लिये the 1960 अध्यक्षीय  election .
Johnson succeeded to the presidency following the assassination of John F. Kennedy on November 22 , 1963 , completed Kennedy 's term and was elected President in his own right , winning by a large   margin over Barry Goldwater in the 1964 election .
Johnson was greatly supported by the Democratic Party and as President , he was responsible for designing the `` Great Society ``  विधान कि शामिल कानून कि upheld सिविल अधिकारों , पब्लिक प्रसारण  , Medicare , Medicaid , environmental protection , aid to education , and his `` War on Poverty . ''
Johnson was renowned for his domineering personality and the `` Johnson treatment , '' his coercion of  शक्तिशाली राजनेता  in order to advance legislation .
Meanwhile , Johnson escalated American involvement in the Vietnam War , from 16,000 American advisors/soldiers in 1963  to 550,000 combat troops in  early 1968 , as American casualties soared and the peace process bogged down .
The involvement stimulated a large angry antiwar  गति आधारित विशेषकर  on university campuses in the U.S. and abroad .
Summer riots broke out in most major cities after 1965 , and crime rates soared , as his opponents raised demands for `` law and  अनुक्रम '' नीतियों  .
The Democratic Party split in multiple  feuding गिरोहों , और  after Johnson did poorly in the 1968 New Hampshire primary , he ended his bid for reelection .
रिपब्लिकन रिचर्ड  Nixon was elected to succeed him .
Historians argue that Johnson 's  प्रेसिडेंसी चिह्नित the शिखर  of modern liberalism in the United States after the New Deal era .
Johnson is ranked favorably by some historians because of  उसके घरेलू नीतियों  .
Progesterone also known as P4 ( pregn-4-ene-3,20-dione ) is a C-21 steroid hormone involved in  the मादा menstrual साईकिल , गर्भावस्था  ( supports gestation ) and embryogenesis of humans and other species .
Progesterone belongs to a class of hormones called progestogens ,  और is the प्रमुख  naturally occurring human progestogen .
Big Bird is a protagonist of the children 's  टेलीविज़न दिखाएँ तिल  Street .
Officially performed by Caroll Spinney  चूंकि 1969 , he is an  eight-foot two-inch ( 249 cm ) tall bright primrose-yellow bird .
He can roller skate , ice skate , dance , sing , write poetry ,  चित्रण और  even ride a unicycle .
But despite this wide array of talents , he is prone to frequent misunderstandings , on one occasion even singing the alphabet as one big long word ( from the song called `` ABC-DEF-GHI ,  '' सुनाया `` ab-keddef-gajihkel-monop-quristuv-wixyz  '' ) , pondering what it could ever mean .
he जीवनदान in a विशाल घोंसला पीछे the 123 तिल गली brownstone और रै a टेडी भालू नामित रडार .
Webtrends is a  निजी कम्पनी  headquartered in Portland , Oregon , United States .
It  provides वेब , सोशल , और  mobile analytics and other software solutions related to marketing intelligence .
The  कम्पनी थी संस्थापित in  1993 and now serves more than 10,000 large and small firms. < ref name='Intelligent Enterprise 2007-05-21 ' >
The Second Crusade ( 1145–1149 ) was the second major crusade launched from  यूरोपीय .
The Second  crusade थी प्रारंभ  in response to the fall of the County of Edessa the previous year to the forces of Zengi .
The county had been founded during the First Crusade ( 1096–1099   ) by Baldwin of Boulogne in 1098 .
While it was the first Crusader state to  be संस्थापित , it थी भी  the first to fall .
The Second Crusade was announced by Pope Eugene III , and was the first of the crusades to be led by European kings , namely Louis VII of France and Conrad III of Germany , with help from a number of  अन्य यूरोपीय nobles  .
The armies of  the दो किंग्स marched  separately across Europe .
After crossing Byzantine territory into Anatolia , both armies were separately defeated  by the seljuq  Turks .
the प्रमुख पश्चिमी ईसाई सोर्स , odo of deuil , और syriac ईसाई स्त्रोत अर्जी  that the Byzantine emperor Manuel I Comnenus secretly hindered the crusaders ' progress , particularly in Anatolia where he is alleged to have deliberately ordered Turks to attack them .
Louis and Conrad and the remnants of their armies reached Jerusalem and , in 1148 , participated in an  ill-advised  attack on Damascus .
The crusade in the east was a  विफलता  for the crusaders and a great victory for the Muslims .
It would ultimately have a key influence on the fall of Jerusalem and give rise to the Third Crusade at  the समाप्त of the 12th  century .
The only  कामयाबी of the दूसरी crusade आए to a संयुक्त  force of 13,000 Flemish , Frisian , Norman , English , Scottish , and German crusaders in 1147 .
Travelling from England , by ship , to the Holy Land , the army stopped and helped the  छोटी ( 7,000  ) Portuguese army in the capture of Lisbon , expelling its Moorish occupants .
Wal-Mart Stores , Inc. ( ) , branded as Walmart , is an American multinational retail corporation that runs chains of  विशाल छूट विभाग स्टोर्स और  warehouse stores .
The company is the world 's third largest public corporation , according to the Fortune Global 500 list in  2012 , the biggest निजी नियोक्ता  in the world with over two million employees , and is the largest retailer in the world .
Walmart remains a  family-owned  business , as the company is controlled by the Walton family , who own a 48 percent stake in Walmart .
It is also one of  the संसार  's most valuable companies .
The company was founded  by sam वाल्टन  in 1962 , incorporated on October 31 , 1969 , and publicly traded on the New York Stock Exchange in 1972 .
It is headquartered in  bentonville  , Arkansas .
Walmart is also the largest grocery retailer in  the संयुक्त राज्य  .
In 2009 , it generated 51 percent of its US $ 258 billion sales in  the u.S. इससे किराना  business .
It also owns and  operates  the Sam 's Club retail warehouses in North America .
By 1988 , Wal-Mart was the most profitable retailer in the  us , और by नवम्बर  1990 , it outsold K-mart .
By 1991 it outsold Sears in retail , making it America 's largest retailer , a  भेद it स्टिल  holds .
Walmart has 8,500 stores in 15 countries ,  अंतर्गत 55 अलग  names .
The company operates under the  walmart नाम in the संयुक्त  States , including the 50 states and Puerto Rico .
It operates in Mexico as Walmex , in the United Kingdom as Asda , in Japan as Seiyu , and in  इण्डिया as बेहतरीन दाम  .
It has wholly owned operations in  अर्जेंटीना , ब्राज़ील ,  and Canada .
Walmart 's investments outside North America have had mixed results : its operations in the United Kingdom , South America ,  और  China are highly successful , whereas ventures in Germany and South Korea were unsuccessful .
Robert William Gary Moore ( 4 April 1952 – 6 February 2011 ) ,  थी a उत्तरी आयरिश संगीतकार ,  most widely recognised as a singer and guitarist .
In a career dating back to the 1960s ,  मूर निभाई साथ कलाकारों सहित फिल lynott और ब्रायन downey  during his teens , leading him to memberships with the Irish bands Skid Row and Thin Lizzy on three separate occasions .
Moore shared the stage with such blues and rock  luminaries as b.b . किंग  , Albert King , Colosseum II , George Harrison and Greg Lake , as well as having a successful solo career .
He guested on a number  of एल्बम अंकित by ऊँची प्रोफ़ाइल  musicians , including a cameo appearance playing the lead guitar solo on `` She 's My Baby `` from Traveling Wilburys Vol . 3 .
an उदाहरण  of rack mounted servers
A  वेब होस्टिंग सेवा is a  type of Internet hosting service that allows individuals and organizations to make their website accessible via the World Wide Web .
Web hosts   are companies that provide space on a server owned or leased for use by clients , as well as providing Internet connectivity , typically in a data center .
Web hosts can also provide data  बीच स्पेस और कनेक्टिविटी  to the Internet for other servers located in their data center , called colocation , also known as Housing in Latin America or France .
The scope of web hosting services  varies greatly  .
The most basic is web page and small-scale file hosting , where files can be uploaded via File Transfer  प्रोटोकॉल ( एफटीपी ) or a वेब इंटरफ़ेस  .
The files are usually delivered to the Web `` as is  '' or साथ  minimal processing .
Many Internet service providers ( ISPs ) offer this service free   to subscribers .
Individuals and organizations may also obtain Web page  होस्टिंग  from alternative service providers .
Personal  वेब साईट होस्टिंग  is typically free , advertisement-sponsored , or inexpensive .
Business web site hosting often has a higher expense  depending  upon the size and type of the website .
Single page hosting is generally sufficient for personal   web pages .
A complex site calls for a more comprehensive package that provides database support and  अनुप्रयोग विकास  platforms ( e.g . PHP , Java , Ruby on Rails , ColdFusion , or ASP.NET ) .
These facilities allow customers to write or  स्थापना  scripts for applications like forums and content management .
Also , Secure  sockets  Layer ( SSL ) is typically used for e-commerce .
The host may also provide an interface or control panel for managing the Web server and installing scripts , as well as other modules and service  अनुप्रयोग जैसे  e-mail .
Some  होस्ट specialize in निश्चित तन्त्र  or services ( e.g . e-commerce ) , which are commonly used by larger companies that outsource network infrastructure .
Obstetrics ( from the Latin obstare , `` to stand by '' ) is the medical specialty dealing with the care of all women 's  reproductive tracts और उनके children दौरान गर्भावस्था ( prenatal  period ) , childbirth and the postnatal period .
Many obstetricians are  भी स्त्रीरोग , अर्थ  they perform in both specialties .
In the United States ,  ये physicians हैं  commonly referred to as OB/GYNs .
The Wright brothers , Orville ( August 19 , 1871 – January 30 , 1948 ) and Wilbur ( April 16 , 1867 – May 30 , 1912 ) , were two American brothers , inventors , and aviation pioneers who were credited with inventing and building the world 's first successful airplane and making the  पहला नियंत्रित , संचालित और sustained heavier-than-air इंसान उड़ान , on दिसम्बर 17 ,  1903 .
From 1905 to 1907 , the brothers developed their flying machine  into the पहला व्यावहारिक  fixed-wing aircraft .
Although not the first to build and fly experimental aircraft , the Wright  भाइयो यहूद the पहला  to invent aircraft controls that made fixed-wing powered flight possible .
The brothers '  आधारभूत भेदन  was their invention of three-axis control , which enabled the pilot to steer the aircraft effectively and to maintain its equilibrium .
This method  became मानक और remains  standard on fixed-wing aircraft of all kinds .
From the beginning of their aeronautical work , the Wright brothers focused on developing a reliable method of pilot  कंट्रोल as the कुंजी to solving `` the उड़ती प्रॉब्लम  '' .
This approach differed significantly from other  experimenters of the समय जो put अधिक जोर  on developing powerful engines .
Using a small homebuilt wind tunnel , the Wrights also collected more accurate data than any before , enabling them to design and build wings and propellers that were more efficient  than  any before .
Their first U.S. patent , 821,393 , did not claim invention of a flying machine , but rather , the invention of a system of  aerodynamic कंट्रोल कि manipulated  a flying machine 's surfaces .
They gained the mechanical skills essential for their success by working for years in their shop with printing  दबाता , साइकिल , मोटर्स  , and other machinery .
Their work with bicycles in particular influenced  उनके  belief that an unstable vehicle like a flying machine could be controlled and balanced with practice .
From 1900  जबतक उनके पहला  powered flights in late 1903 , they conducted extensive glider tests that also developed their skills as pilots .
Their bicycle shop employee  चार्ली टेलर became an महत्वपूर्ण भाग of  the team , building their first aircraft engine in close collaboration with the brothers .
The Wright brothers ' status as inventors of the airplane has been subject to counter-claims  by विभिन्न पार्टियों  .
much विवाद  persists over the many competing claims of early aviators .
America 's Next Top Model , Cycle 12 is the twelfth cycle of America 's Next Top Model and the sixth season to air on The  cw  network .
It  premiered  on March 4 , 2009 .
The cycle 's catch phrase is `` Get  in the  Fold . ''
The cycle 's  promotional  song is Lady Gaga 's `` The Fame '' .
The prizes for this cycle  are:
A modeling contract with Elite  मॉडल प्रबन्धन  .
A fashion spread and  कवर in  Seventeen .
A 100,000  अनुबंध  with CoverGirl cosmetics .
The first half of the cycle took place  in नई यॉर्क नगर , चलती the दिखाएँ  back from Los Angeles last season .
The  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  destination for this cycle is São Paulo , Brazil , the series first visit to South America .
The number of girls was reduced to 13 , the first time since Cycle  9 , बाद  being maintained at 14 in the last two cycles .
This was the last time Paulina Porizkova  participated as न्यायधीश .
The winner was 20-year-old Teyona Anderson from Woodstown , New  जर्सी  .
This season averaged 4.35 million viewers  प्रति एपीसोड  .
Exxon Mobil Corporation , or ExxonMobil , is an American multinational oil and gas  निगम headquartered  in Irving , Texas , United States .
It is a direct descendant of John D. Rockefeller 's Standard Oil  कम्पनी , और थी  formed on November 30 , 1999 , by the merger of Exxon and Mobil .
It  is संबद्ध  with Imperial Oil which operates in Canada .
ExxonMobil is the world 's largest company by revenue and in 2013 , became the largest publicly traded company by market  capitalization in the संसार  .
the कम्पनी is क्रमित # 5 globally in फोर्ब्स वैश्विक 2000 सूची in 2013 .
Exxon Mobil 's reserves were 72 billion oil-equivalent barrels at the end of 2007 and , at  तब ( 2007 ) दरों of उत्पादन ,  are expected to last over 14 years .
With 37 oil  refineries in 21 देशों constituting a संयुक्त  daily refining capacity of , Exxon Mobil is the largest refiner in the world , a title that was also associated with Standard Oil since its incorporation in 1870 .
ExxonMobil is the largest of the world 's  supermajors साथ रोज़  production of 3.921 million BOE ( barrels of oil equivalent ) .
In 2008 , this was approximately 3 % of world production  , जिससे is कम than अनेक  of the largest state-owned petroleum companies .
When ranked by  आयल और गैस reserves  it is 14th in the world with less than 1 % of the total .
A 2012 article in The Daily Telegraph says that ExxonMobil has `` grown into one  of the planet’s सबसे hated corporations ,  able to determine American foreign policy and the fate of entire nations '' .
In terms of its environmental record  , exxonmobil increasingly drills in terrains leased to  them by dictatorships , such as those in Chad and Equatorial Guinea .
Lee  रेमंड , the corporation’s मुख्य कार्यपालिका  until 2005 , was `` notoriously sceptical about climate change and disliked government interference at any level '' .
The company was widely criticized for its slow response to  सफ़ाई इसके 1989 valdez आयल spill in  Alaska .
This article is about  the ग्लोब  Theatre of Shakespeare .
For the modern reconstruction in London , see  शेक्सपियर  's Globe .
For  अन्य उपयोग , देखिए ग्लोब  Theatre ( disambiguation ) .
The Globe  थिएटर  was a theatre in London associated with William Shakespeare .
It was built in 1599 by Shakespeare 's playing company , the Lord Chamberlain 's Men , on  land  owned by Thomas Brend and inherited by his son , Nicholas Brend and grandson Sir Matthew Brend , and was destroyed by fire on 29 June 1613 .
A second Globe Theatre was built on the same site by June 1614  और बंद  in 1642 .
A modern reconstruction of the Globe , named `` Shakespeare 's Globe `` , opened in  1997 लगभग  from the site of the original theatre .
It 's a Wonderful  जीवन is a 1946 अमरीकी क्रिसमस नाटक फिल्मी उत्पादित  and directed by Frank Capra , based on the short story `` The Greatest Gift `` , which Philip Van Doren Stern wrote in 1939 and privately published in 1945 .
The film is considered one of  the सबसे loved films in अमरीकी सिनेमा और रै become परंपरागत  viewing during the Christmas season , alongside popular classics such as Charles Dickens ' A Christmas Carol .
The film stars James Stewart as George Bailey , a man who has given up  उसके सपनो in अनुक्रम to सहायता अन्य और  whose imminent suicide on Christmas Eve brings about the intervention of his guardian angel , Clarence Odbody ( Henry Travers ) .
Clarence shows George all the lives he has touched and how different life in his community of  bedford  Falls would be had he never been born .
Despite initially performing poorly at the box office due to high production costs and stiff  प्रतियोगिता  at the time of its release , the film has come to be regarded as a classic and is a staple of Christmas television around the world .
Theatrically , the film 's break-even point was actually $ 6.3 million , approximately twice the  उत्पादन लागत , a फिगर  it never came close to achieving in its initial release .
An appraisal in 2006 reported : `` Although it was not the complete box office failure that today everyone believes ... it was  initially a प्रमुख निराशा और पुष्टि , at तनिक to the studios , कि capra  was no longer capable of turning out the populist features that made his films the must-see , money-making events they once were . ''
The film was nominated for five Oscars and has been recognized by the American  Film Institute as one of the 100  best American films ever made , placing number 11 on its initial 1998 greatest movie list , and would also place number one on its list of the most inspirational American films of all time .
Data  गोदाम अवलोकन
In  कम्प्यूटिंग , a आंकड़ा गोदाम  or enterprise data warehouse ( DW , DWH , or EDW ) is a database used for reporting and data analysis .
It is a central repository of data which is  निर्मित by  integrating data from one or more disparate sources .
आंकड़ा warehouses स्टोर वर्तमान as खूब as ऐतिहासिक आंकड़ा और हैं प्रयुक्त लिये बनाना चर्चित रिपोर्ट्स लिये वरिष्ठ प्रबन्धन रिपोर्टिंग ऐसे as सालाना और त्रैमासिक comparisons  .
The data stored in the warehouse are uploaded from the operational systems ( such as marketing , sales  etc.  , shown in the figure to the right ) .
The data may pass through an operational data store for additional operations before they are used in  the dw लिये रिपोर्टिंग  .
The typical ETL  -आधारd आंकड़ा गोदाम  uses staging , data integration , and access layers to house its key functions .
The staging layer or staging database stores raw data extracted from each of the disparate source data systems   .
The integration layer integrates the disparate data sets by transforming the data from the staging layer often storing this transformed data in an  operational आंकड़ा स्टोर ( ods ) डेटाबेस  .
The integrated data are then moved to yet another database , often called the data warehouse database , where the  आंकड़ा is arranged into hierarchical  groups often called dimensions and into facts and aggregate facts .
The combination of facts and dimensions is sometimes  पुकारा  a star schema .
The  अभिगम परत  helps users retrieve data .
A data warehouse  constructed इससे an एकीकृत आंकड़ा सोर्स  systems does not require ETL , staging databases , or operational data store databases .
The integrated data source systems may be considered   to be a part of a distributed operational data store layer .
Data federation methods or data  आभासीकरण  methods may be used to access the distributed integrated source data systems to consolidate and aggregate data directly into the data warehouse database tables .
Unlike the ETL-based data warehouse , the integrated source data systems and the data warehouse are all integrated since there is no  परिवर्तन  of dimensional or reference data .
This integrated data warehouse architecture supports the drill down from the aggregate data of the data warehouse to the  transactional आंकड़ा of  the integrated source data systems .
Data warehouses can be  subdivided into आंकड़ा  marts .
Data marts  स्टोर subsets  of data from a warehouse .
This definition of  the आंकड़ा  warehouse focuses on data storage .
The main source of the data  is cleaned , रूपांतरित , cataloged  and made available for use by managers and other business professionals for data mining , online analytical processing , market research and decision support ( Marakas & O'Brien 2009 ) .
However , the means to retrieve and analyze data , to extract , transform and load data , and to manage the data dictionary  हैं भी माना  essential components of a data warehousing system .
Many references  to आंकड़ा warehousing  use this broader context .
Thus , an expanded definition for data warehousing includes business intelligence tools ,  टूल्स to निकालें  , transform and load data into the repository , and tools to manage and retrieve metadata .
Portland stone quarry on the  आइल of  Portland , England
An abandoned construction aggregate quarry near Adelaide ,  दक्षिण ऑस्ट्रेलिया
A quarry is a type of open-pit mine from which rock or minerals are  निकाली  .
Quarries are generally used for extracting building materials , such as dimension stone  , निर्माण कुल , riprap , बालू , और  gravel .
They are often collocated with concrete and asphalt plants due to the  आवश्यकता लिये विशाल amounts of कुल in those सामग्री  .
खोलें खानों कि उपज  minerals are typically referred to as open pit mines .
the शब्द पाषाण can  include underground quarrying for stone , such as Bath stone .
Mormons ( ) are a religious and cultural group related to  mormonism , the प्रिंसिपल शाखा of the latter  Day Saint movement of Restorationist Christianity , which began with the visions of Joseph Smith in upstate New York during the 1820s .
After Smith 's death in 1844 the Mormons followed Brigham Young  to  what would become the Utah Territory .
Today  mormons हैं  understood to be members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints ( LDS Church ) .
कुछ mormons  are also either independent or non-practicing .
The center of Mormon cultural influence is in Utah , and North America has more Mormons than any other  महाद्वीप  , though the majority of Mormons live outside the United States .
Mormons have developed a  दमदार भाव of communality  that stems from their doctrine and history .
During the 19th century Mormon converts tended to gather to a central geographic  स्थान , और between  1852 and 1890 a minority of Mormons openly practiced plural marriage , a form of religious polygamy .
Mormons  dedicate विशाल amounts of समय और संसाधन to सेवारत in  their church , and many young Mormons choose to serve a full-time proselytizing mission .
Mormons  have a स्वास्थ्य कोड  that eschews alcoholic beverages , tobacco , coffee , tea , and other addictive substances .
They tend to be very family-oriented , and have strong connections across generations and with  विस्तारित  family , reflective of their belief that families can be sealed together beyond death and throughout eternity .
Mormons also have a strict law of chastity , requiring abstention from sexual relations  बाहर of विवाह और सख्त वफ़ादारी  within marriage .
Mormons self-identify as  ईसाई , हालांकि कुछ  of their beliefs differ from mainstream Christianity .
Mormons believe in the Bible , as well as other books of scripture , such as the Book of  mormon  .
They have a unique view of cosmology , and believe that all  लोगों हैं spirit-children  of God .
Mormons  मानना कि returning to परमेश्वर requires  following the example of Jesus Christ , and accepting his atonement through ordinances such as baptism .
They believe that  मसीह 's गिरिजाघर  was restored through Joseph Smith , and is guided by living prophets and apostles .
Central to Mormon faith is the belief  कि परमेश्वर बोलती to उसके  children and answers their prayers .
In  वित्तीय हिसाब  , assets are economic resources .
Anything tangible or intangible that is capable of being  स्वामित्व  or controlled to produce value and that is held to have positive economic value is considered an asset .
Simply stated , assets represent value of ownership that can be converted into cash (  हालांकि नकदी itself is भी माना  an asset ) .
The balance sheet of a  कड़  records the monetaryJ .
G. Siegel ,  N. dauber  & J. K. Shim , `` The Vest Pocket CPA '' , Wiley , 2005.There are different methods of assessing the monetary value of the assets recorded on the Balance Sheet .
in कुछ मामले , the ऐतिहासिक लागत is प्रयुक्त ; ऐसे  that the value of the asset when it was bought in the past is used as the monetary value .
In other instances , the present fair  मार्केट मान of the  asset is used to determine the value shown on the balance sheet .
value of the assets owned by  the कड़ .
It is  धन और अन्य valuables  belonging to an individual or business .
Two major  एसेट वर्ग हैं ठोस  assets and intangible assets .
Tangible  एसेट contain विभिन्न subclasses  , including current assets and fixed assets.J .
Downes , J.E . Goodman , `` Dictionary of Finance & Investment Terms '' , Baron 's Financial Guides , 2003 Current assets include inventory , while fixed assets include such items as buildings and equipment .J . Downes , J.E . Goodman , `` Dictionary of Finance & Investment Terms '' , Baron 's Financial Guides , 2003 ; and J. G. Siegel , N.  dauber & J. K. shim , `` the बनियान जेब cpa '' ,  Wiley , 2005 .
Intangible assets are nonphysical  संसाधन और अधिकारों कि have  a value to the firm because they give the firm some kind of advantage in the market place .
Examples of intangible assets  हैं साख , copyrights , trademarks  , patents and computer programs , and financial assets , including such items as accounts receivable , bonds and stocks .
A neuron ( or ; also known as a neurone or nerve cell ) is an electrically excitable cell that  प्रक्रियाओं और transmits  information through electrical and chemical signals .
A chemical signal occurs via a  अन्तर्ग्रथन  , a specialized connection with other cells .
Neurons connect to each  अन्य to रूप neural  networks .
न्यूरॉन्स हैं the कोर components  of the nervous system , which includes the brain , spinal cord , and peripheral ganglia .
A number of specialized types of neurons exist : sensory neurons respond to touch , sound , light and numerous other  stimuli affecting कोशिकाएं of the संवेदी अंगों  that then send signals to the spinal cord and brain .
मोटर न्यूरॉन्स प्राप्त सिग्नल  from the brain and spinal cord , cause muscle contractions , and affect glands .
Interneurons connect neurons to other neurons within the same region  of the दिमाग or  spinal cord .
A typical neuron possesses a cell  देह ( प्रायः पुकारा  the soma ) , dendrites , and an axon .
dendrites हैं पतला structures कि उठता इससे the कोशिका देह , प्रायः extending लिये सैंकड़ों of micrometres और branching अनेक टाइम्स , giving वृद्धि to a जटिल `` dendritic पेड़ '' .
An axon is a special cellular extension that arises from the cell  देह at a साईट पुकारा the axon  hillock and travels for a distance , as far as 1 meter in humans or even more in other species .
The cell body of a neuron frequently gives  वृद्धि to अनेक dendrites , लकिन never to अधिक than एक  axon , although the axon may branch hundreds of times before it terminates .
At the majority of synapses ,  सिग्नल  are sent from the axon of one neuron to a dendrite of another .
There are , however , many exceptions to these rules : neurons that  कमी  dendrites , neurons that have no axon , synapses that connect an axon to another axon or a dendrite to another dendrite , etc .
All neurons are  electrically excitable , maintaining वोल्टेज अनुपात  across their membranes by means of metabolically driven ion pumps , which combine with ion channels embedded in the membrane to generate intracellular-versus-extracellular concentration differences of ions such as sodium , potassium , chloride , and calcium .
Changes in the cross-membrane voltage can alter  the फलन of voltage-dependent  ion channels .
If the voltage   changes by a large enough amount , an all-or-none electrochemical pulse called an action potential is generated , which travels rapidly along the cell 's axon , and activates synaptic connections with other cells when it arrives .
Neurons do not undergo  कोशिका प्रभाग  .
In most cases , neurons are  उत्पन्न by खास  types of stem cells .
Astrocytes , a type of glial cell , have  भी महरूम observed to फेरे  into neurons by virtue of the stem cell characteristic pluripotency .
In humans , neurogenesis largely  ceases दौरान adulthood—but  in two brain areas , the hippocampus and olfactory bulb , there is strong evidence for generation of substantial numbers of new neurons .
Super Bowl XLIII was an American football game between the American Football Conference ( AFC ) champion Pittsburgh Steelers and the National Football Conference ( NFC ) champion  एरिज़ोना कार्डिनल्स to decide the नेशनल  Football League ( NFL ) champion for the 2008 season .
The  स्टीलर्स पराजित the  Cardinals by the score of 27–23 .
The game was played on February  1 , 2009 , at रेमंड  James Stadium in Tampa , Florida .
With this win , the Steelers became the first team to win six Super  प्याले  .
Pittsburgh , who finished the regular  ऋतु साथ a 12–4 रिकार्ड , भी जीती उनके  second Super Bowl in four years after winning Super Bowl XL at the end of the 2005 season .
The  कार्डिनल्स डाला the खेल  seeking their first NFL title since 1947 , the longest championship drought in the league .
The club became an unexpected winner during the regular season , compiling a 9–7 record , and the playoffs with the aid of head coach Ken Whisenhunt , who was the Steelers ' offensive coordinator in  सुपर कटोरी xl , और the re-emergence  of quarterback Kurt Warner , who was the Super Bowl MVP in Super Bowl XXXIV with his former team , St. Louis Rams .
पिट्सबर्ग कूद to  a 17–7 halftime lead , aided by linebacker James Harrison 's Super Bowl record 100-yard interception return for a touchdown .
Trailing 20–7 at the start of the  चौथी क्वार्टर  , Arizona scored 16 unanswered points , including wide receiver Larry Fitzgerald 's 64-yard touchdown reception , to take the lead with 2:37 remaining in the game .
But the Steelers marched 78 yards to score on  चौड़ी receiver santonio  Holmes ' 6-yard game-winning touchdown catch with 35 seconds left .
Holmes , who caught nine passes for 131 yards and a touchdown , including four  receptions लिये 73 गज on कि  final game-winning drive , was named Super Bowl MVP .
He became the sixth wide receiver to win the award , and also was the third Pittsburgh receiver to win  the पुरस्कार , following  Lynn Swann and Hines Ward .
Despite the global financial crisis and limited amount of ancillary festivities that are normally held before the game , the NBC television network broadcast   attracted an average U.S. audience of 98.7 million viewers , making it the most watched Super Bowl in history to that point .
A diagram of the  इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक वर्णक्रम , प्रर्दशित  various properties across the range of frequencies and wavelengths
The electromagnetic spectrum is the range of all possible  बारंबारता of इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक  radiation .
The `` electromagnetic spectrum '' of an object has a different meaning ,  और is बजाय the characteristic वितरण  of electromagnetic radiation emitted or absorbed by that particular object .
The electromagnetic spectrum extends from below the low frequencies used for modern  radio  communication to gamma radiation at the short- wavelength ( high-frequency ) end , thereby covering wavelengths from thousands of kilometers down to a fraction of the size of an atom .
The limit for long  wavelengths is the आकार  of the universe itself , while it is thought that the short wavelength limit is in the vicinity of the Planck length , although in principle the spectrum is infinite and continuous .
Most parts of the electromagnetic spectrum are used in science for  spectroscopic और अन्य  probing interactions , as ways to study and characterize matter .
In addition , radiation from various parts of the spectrum has found many other uses for communications and manufacturing ( see electromagnetic radiation for more  अनुप्रयोग ) .
लेजेंड
marchantia  , a liverwort
Bryophyte is a  परंपरागत  name used to refer to all embryophytes ( land plants ) that do not have true vascular tissue and are therefore called ' non-vascular plants ' .
Some bryophytes do have specialized tissues for the transport of  जल ; however चूंकि ये do  not contain lignin , they are not considered to be true vascular tissue .
Currently bryophytes are thought not to be a natural or monophyletic group ; however the name is convenient and remains in use as a  सामूहिक पद लिये mosses , hornworts  , and liverworts .
Bryophytes produce enclosed reproductive  structures  ( gametangia and sporangia ) , but they produce neither flowers nor seeds , reproducing via spores .
The term bryophyte comes from Greek βρύον , bryon , ``  tree-moss  , oyster-green '' + φυτόν - phyton `` plant '' .
A bank is a financial institution and a financial  intermediary कि स्वीकृत जमा और  channels those deposits into lending activities , either directly by loaning or indirectly through capital markets .
A bank is the connection  between ग्राहक  that have capital deficits and customers with capital surpluses .
Due to their influence within a financial system  और an अर्थव्यवस्था , बैंको हैं generally  highly regulated in most countries .
सबसे बैंको operate अंतर्गत a प्रणाली ज्ञात  as fractional reserve banking where they hold only a small reserve of the funds deposited and lend out the rest for profit .
They are generally subject to  न्यूनतम पूंजी  requirements which are based on an international set of capital standards , known as the Basel Accords .
The oldest bank still in existence is Monte dei Paschi di Siena ,  headquartered in सियेना , इटली , जिससे रै महरूम  operating continuously since 1472 .
It is followed by Berenberg Bank of Hamburg ( 1590 )  और  Sveriges Riksbank of Sweden ( 1668 ) .
Banking in its modern sense evolved in  समृद्ध शहरों of  Renaissance Italy , such as Florence , Venice and Genoa .
In the history of banking , a number of banking dynasties —among them notably Medici , Fugger ,  welser , berenberg  , Baring and Rothschild —have played a central role over many centuries .
The Xbox is a  वीडियो खेल  console manufactured by Microsoft .
It was released on November 15 , 2001 in North America , February 22 , 2002 in Japan , and March 14 , 2002  in ऑस्ट्रेलिया  and Europe .
it थी microsoft  's first foray into the gaming console market .
As part of the sixth-generation of gaming , the Xbox competed with Sony 's PlayStation 2 , Sega 's Dreamcast ( which stopped American sales  पहले the एक्सबॉक्स गई on बिक्री  ) , and Nintendo 's GameCube .
The Xbox was the first console offered by an American company  बाद the atari  Jaguar stopped sales in 1996 .
The integrated Xbox Live service launched in November 2002 allowed players to play games online with a broadband  कनेक्शन .
It first competed with Dreamcast 's online service but later  primarily  competed with PlayStation 2 's online service .
Although these two are free while Xbox Live required a subscription , as well as broadband-only connection which was not  completely अपनाया yet , एक्सबॉक्स  Live was a success due to better servers , features such as a buddy list , and milestone titles like Halo 2 released in November 2004 , which is the best-selling Xbox video game and was by far the most popular online game for years .
Xbox 's successor , the Xbox 360 , was  शुभारम्भ in नवम्बर  2005 .
the  Xbox was discontinued in late 2005 in Japan where sales were poor .
It was discontinued in late 2006 in  यूरोपीय  and early 2007 in North America .
The last Xbox game in Europe was Tony Hawk 's Project 8 released in November 2006  ,  and the last game in North America was Madden NFL 09 released in August 2008 .
Support for out-of-warranty  एक्सबॉक्स consoles थी discontinued  on March 2 , 2009 , stating that any in-warranty repair now needed will not be undertaken .
Xbox  अभिगम to एक्सबॉक्स सजीव  was stopped on April 15 , 2010 .
The Gospel According to John ( Greek τὸ κατὰ Ἰωάννην εὐαγγέλιον ) , commonly referred to as the Gospel of John or simply John and often referred to in New Testament scholarship as the Fourth Gospel , is an account of the  पब्लिक मंत्रालय  of Jesus .
It begins with the witness and affirmation by John the Baptist and concludes with the death , burial , resurrection , and post-resurrection  दिखावे  of Jesus .
This account  is चौथी  of the canonical gospels , after the synoptics Matthew , Mark and Luke .
states that the book derives from the testimony of the ' disciple whom  यीशु loved  . '
Along with Peter , the unnamed disciple is  विशेषकर बंद to यीशु , और early-church  tradition identified him as John the Apostle , one of Jesus ' Twelve Apostles .
The gospel is closely related in  स्टाइल और सामग्री to the तीन surviving  Epistles of John such that commentators treat the four books together , yet , according to most modern scholars , John was not the author of any of these books .
Recent Christian  scripture  scholarship more and more has placed John within a first-century Jewish context .
रेमंड E. भूरा किया pioneering  work to trace the development of the tradition from which the gospel arose .
The  प्रवचन seem to  be concerned with the actual issues of the church-and-synagogue debate at the time when the Gospel was written .
It is notable that , in the  इन्जील , the जातियाँ  still appears to define itself primarily against Judaism , rather than as part of a wider Christian church .
Though Christianity started as a movement within Judaism  , धीरे ईसाइयों और  Jews became bitterly opposed .
John presents a `` higher '' Christology than the synoptics , meaning that  it describes यीशु as the अवतार of the दैवी  Logos through whom all things were made , as the object of veneration , and more explicitly as God incarnate .
Only in John does Jesus talk at  लंबाई परिचय खुद और उसके दैवी  role , often shared with the disciples only .
Against the  synoptics ,  John focuses largely on different miracles ( including resurrecting Lazarus ) , given as signs meant to engender faith .
synoptic  elements such as parables and exorcisms are not found in John .
it  presents a realized eschatology in which salvation is already present for the believer .
The Plagues of Egypt ( ) , also called the  टेन plagues ( ) or  the Biblical Plagues , were ten calamities that , according to the biblical Book of Exodus , Israel 's God , Yahweh , inflicted upon Egypt to persuade Pharaoh to release the ill-treated Israelites from slavery .
Pharaoh capitulated after the  दसवाँ प्लेग , triggering  the Exodus of the Jewish people .
The plagues were designed to contrast the power of Yahweh with the impotence of Egypt 's  विभिन्न  gods .
Some commentators have associated several of the plagues with judgment on  विशिष्ट देवताओं  associated with the Nile , fertility and natural phenomena .
The plagues of Egypt are also mentioned in  the  Quran ( 7,133–136 ) .
According to the Book of Exodus , God proclaims that all the gods of Egypt  होगा  be judged through the tenth and final plague:
John Martin 's  पेंटिंग  of the plague of hail and fire ( 1823 ) .
A role-playing game ( RPG and  sometimes roleplaying खेल ) is  a game in which players assume the roles of characters in a fictional setting .
खिलाड़ी लो जिम्मेदारी लिये एक्टिंग आउट ये भूमिकाएँ भीतर a कथा , either through शाब्दिक एक्टिंग or through a प्रक्रम of संरचित decision-making or अक्षर  development .
Actions taken within many games succeed or   fail according to a formal system of rules and guidelines .
There  हैं अनेक  forms of RPG .
The original form ,  sometimes  called the tabletop RPG , is conducted through discussion , whereas in live action role-playing games ( LARP ) players physically perform their characters ' actions .
In both of these forms , an arranger called a game master ( GM ) usually decides  on the नियम और सेटिंग to be प्रयुक्त और  acts as referee , while each of the other players plays the role of a single character .
Several varieties of RPG also exist in electronic media , such as multi-player  text-based  MUDs and their graphics-based successors , massively multiplayer online role-playing games ( MMORPGs ) .
Role-playing games also include single-player offline role-playing video games in which players control a  अक्षर or टोली जो undertake quests , और may  include capabilities that advance using statistical mechanics .
These games often  share जमावट और नियम साथ  tabletop RPGs , but emphasize character advancement more than collaborative storytelling .
despite इस किस्में of फ़ॉर्म , कुछ  game forms such as trading card games and wargames that are related to role-playing games may not be included .
Role-playing activity may sometimes be present in such games ,  लकिन it is नहीं  the primary focus .
The term is also sometimes  प्रयुक्त  to describe roleplay simulation games and exercises used in teaching , training , and academic research .
The American Civil War ( ACW ) , also known as the War between the States or simply the Civil War ( see naming ) , was a civil war fought from 1861 to 1865 between the  संयुक्त राज्य ( the `` संघ '' or the ``  North '' ) and several Southern slave states that declared their secession and formed the Confederate States of America ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ) .
The war  था इसके उत्पत्ति in the  issue of slavery , especially the extension of slavery into the western territories .
विदेशी  powers did not intervene .
After four years of bloody combat that left over 600,000 soldiers dead and destroyed much of the South 's infrastructure , the Confederacy collapsed , slavery was abolished , and the  मुश्किल पुनर्निर्माण प्रक्रम of restoring नेशनल एकता और guaranteeing  rights to the freed slaves began .
In the 1860 presidential election ,  republicans ,  led by Abraham Lincoln , opposed expanding slavery into United States ' territories .
Lincoln won , but before  उसके उद्घाटन  on March 4 , 1861 , seven cotton-based slave states formed the Confederacy .
Outgoing Democratic President James Buchanan and the incoming Republicans   rejected secession as illegal .
Lincoln 's  inaugural पता घोषित  his administration would not initiate civil war .
Eight  बाकी  slave states continued to reject calls for secession .
Confederate forces  जब्त numerous  federal forts within territory claimed by the Confederacy .
A Peace Conference failed to find a compromise  , और  both sides prepared for war .
The Confederates assumed that European countries were so dependent on `` King Cotton `` that they would  intervene ; none किया और  none recognized the new Confederate States of America .
Hostilities began on April 12 , 1861 , when  confederate शक्तियां fired upon फोर्ट  Sumter , a key fort held by Union troops in South Carolina .
Lincoln called for each state to provide troops to retake the fort ; consequently , four  more slave  states joined the Confederacy , bringing their total to eleven .
The Union soon controlled the border states and established a naval blockade that crippled the  दक्षिणी अर्थव्यवस्था  .
The Eastern  थिएटर थी  inconclusive in 1861–62 .
The autumn 1862 Confederate campaign into Maryland ( a Union state ) ended with Confederate retreat at the Battle of  antietam  , dissuading British intervention .
Lincoln issued the Emancipation  उदघोषणा  , which made ending slavery a war goal .
To the west , by summer 1862 the Union destroyed the Confederate river navy , then much of their western  सेना , और the  Union at Vicksburg split the Confederacy in two at the Mississippi River .
In 1863 , Robert E. Lee  's confederate  incursion north ended at the Battle of Gettysburg .
पश्चिमी सफलताओं led to ulysses  S. Grant command of all Union armies in 1864 .
In the Western  थिएटर , विलियम  T. Sherman drove east to capture Atlanta and marched to the sea , destroying Confederate infrastructure along the way .
The Union marshaled the resources and manpower to attack the Confederacy from all directions , and  could afford to लड़ो लड़ाइयों of अपघर्षण  through the Overland Campaign towards Richmond , the Confederate capital .
The defending Confederate army failed , leading to Lee 's surrender to Grant at  appomattox अदालत  House on April 9 , 1865 .
The American Civil War was one of  the earliest  true industrial wars .
Railroads , the telegraph , steamships , and mass-produced  हथियार  were employed extensively .
The mobilization of civilian factories , mines , shipyards , banks ,  परिवहन और खाना आपूर्तियाँ  all foreshadowed World War I .
It remains the deadliest war in   American history , resulting in the deaths of an estimated 750,000 soldiers and an undetermined number of civilian casualties .
Historian John Huddleston estimates the death toll at  टेन प्रतिशत of सब उत्तरी males  20–45 years old , and 30 percent of all Southern white males aged 18–40 .
The definition of the world 's busiest airport has been specified by the  एयरपोर्ट परिषद अंतरराष्ट्रीय in जेनेवा  , Switzerland .
The ACI  defines  and measures the following three types of airport traffic:
Passenger traffic : total passengers emplaned and deplaned ,  यात्री in  transit counted once
Cargo  ट्रैफ़िक  : loaded and unloaded freight and mail in metric tonnes
Traffic movements : landings and  take-offs  of aircraft
World War I ( WWI ) was a global war centred in Europe that began on 28  जुलाई 1914  and lasted until 11 November 1918 .
It was predominantly called the World War or the Great War from  इसके  occurrence until the start of World War II in 1939 , and the First World War or World War I thereafter .
It involved all the world 's great powers , which were assembled in two opposing alliances : the Allies ( based on the  ट्रिपल entente of the संयुक्त किंगडम , फ़्रांस और रूस ) और the सेंट्रल शक्तियां ( originally the ट्रिपल  Alliance of Germany , Austria-Hungary and Italy ; but , as Austria–Hungary had taken the offensive against the agreement , Italy did not enter into the war ) .
These alliances  यहूद दोनो reorganised और विस्तारित  as more nations entered the war : Italy , Japan and the United States joined the Allies , and the Ottoman Empire and Bulgaria the Central Powers .
Ultimately  , अधिक than 70 लाख सैन्य कर्मियों  , including 60 million Europeans , were mobilised in one of the largest wars in history .
More than 9 million combatants were killed ,  largely क्युकी of technological  advancements that led to enormous increases in the lethality of weapons without corresponding improvements in protection or mobility .
It was the fifth- deadliest conflict in world history , subsequently paving the way for various political changes , such as revolutions in  अनेक  of the nations involved .
One of the long-term causes of the war was the resurgence of  साम्राज्यवाद  in the foreign policies of the great powers of Europe .
More immediately , the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria , the heir to the throne of Austria-Hungary , on 28 June 1914 by Yugoslav nationalist Gavrilo Princip in Sarajevo triggered a diplomatic crisis when Austria-Hungary  subsequently वितरित an ultimatum to the  Kingdom of Serbia .
Several alliances formed over the previous  दशकों  were invoked .
Within weeks , the major powers were at  युद्ध और , via उनके colonies  , the conflict soon spread around the world .
On 28 July , the Austro-Hungarians fired the first shots of the war as preparation for the invasion of   Serbia .
While the Russians mobilised , the Germans  invaded न्यूट्रल बेल्जियम और ध्वज on the  way to France , providing a casus belli for Britain 's declaration of war against Germany .
After the German march on Paris was brought  to  a halt—the so-called Miracle of the Marne —the Western Front settled into a static battle of attrition with a trench line that changed little until 1917 .
On the Eastern Front , the Russian army was successful against the Austro-Hungarians , but was   stopped in its invasion of East Prussia by the Germans .
In November the Ottoman  साम्राज्य  joined the war , opening up fronts in the Caucasus , Mesopotamia and the Sinai .
Italy  और बुल्गारिया  went to war in 1915 and Romania in 1916 .
In Russia , the tsar 's government collapsed in March 1917 and a  subsequent क्रान्ति  in November brought the Russians to terms with the Central Powers .
After a 1918 German offensive along the western front  , the allies  drove back the Germans in a series of successful offensives and American forces began entering the trenches .
Germany , which had its own trouble with revolutionaries ,  सहमत to an  armistice on 11 November 1918 .
The war  ended in विजय  for the Allies .
Events on the home  fronts यहूद as उग्र as on the  battle fronts , as the participants tried to mobilize their manpower and economic resources to fight a total war .
By the end of the war , four major imperial powers—the German , Russian  , austro-hungarian  and Ottoman empires—ceased to exist .
The successor states of the former two lost a great amount of territory , while the latter two  were  dismantled entirely .
The map of central Europe was redrawn into several smaller  राज्य  .
The League of Nations was formed in the hope of  preventing another  such conflict .
The European nationalism spawned by the war and the breakup of empires , the repercussions of  जर्मनी 's शिकस्त और समस्याएं साथ the सन्धि  of Versailles are agreed to be factors contributing to World War II .
The Deepwater Horizon oil spill ( also referred to as the BP oil spill , the BP oil disaster , the Gulf of Mexico oil spill , and the Macondo blowout ) was an oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico on the BP -operated Macondo Prospect , considered the largest accidental marine oil spill in the history of the  पेट्रोलियम उद्योग , अनुमानित  to be between 8 % and 31 % larger in volume than the earlier Ixtoc I oil spill .
Following the explosion and sinking of the Deepwater Horizon oil rig , which claimed 11 lives , a sea-floor oil  gusher flowed unabated  for 87 days , until it was capped on 15 July 2010 .
The total discharge is estimated  at  .
A massive response ensued to protect beaches , wetlands and estuaries from the spreading oil utilizing skimmer ships ,  फ्लोटिंग booms  , controlled burns and of Corexit oil dispersant .
After several failed efforts to contain the flow , the well was declared sealed on 19 September  2010  .
Some reports indicate the  खूब साईट  continues to leak .
Due to the months-long  spill , साथ साथ प्रतिकूल प्रभाव इससे the जवाब और क्लीनअप क्रियाएँ , extensive क्षति  to marine and wildlife habitats , fishing and tourism industries , and human health problems have continued through 2013.Three years after the spill , tar balls could still be found on the Mississippi coast .
Numerous investigations explored the causes of the explosion and record-setting  spill  .
Notably , the U.S. government  's  September 2011 report pointed to defective cement on the well , faulting mostly BP , but also well operator Transocean and contractor Halliburton .
Earlier in 2011 , a White House commission likewise blamed BP and its partners for a series of cost-cutting decisions and an  अपर्याप्त सुरक्षा प्रणाली , लकिन भी concluded कि the spill resulted इससे `` प्रणालीगत ''  root causes and `` absent significant reform in both industry practices and government policies , might well recur '' .
In November 2012 , BP and the United States Department of Justice settled federal criminal  आरोप  with BP pleading guilty to 11 counts of manslaughter , two misdemeanors , and a felony count of lying to Congress .
BP also agreed to four years of  सरकारी  monitoring of its safety practices and ethics , and the Environmental Protection Agency announced that BP would be temporarily banned from new contracts with the US government .
BP and the  विभाग  of Justice agreed to a record-setting $ 4.525 billion in fines and other payments but further legal proceedings not expected to conclude until 2014 are ongoing to determine payouts and fines under the Clean Water Act and the Natural Resources Damage Assessment .
As of February 2013 , criminal and civil  settlements  and payments to a trust fund had cost the company $ 42.2 billion .
`` Where the Streets Have No Name '' is a song by rock band  u2  .
It is the opening track  इससे  their 1987 album The Joshua Tree and was released as the album 's third single in August 1987 .
The song 's hook is a  repeating  guitar arpeggio using a delay effect , played during the song 's introduction and again at the end .
Lead vocalist Bono wrote the lyrics in response to the notion that it is possible to identify a person 's religion and income based on the street  on जिससे वे जिया , विशेषकर in  Belfast .
During the band 's difficulties recording the song , producer Brian Eno  माना erasing the सोंग  's tapes to have them start from scratch .
`` Where the Streets Have No Name '' was praised by critics and became a commercial  कामयाबी , peaking at क्रमांक  thirteen in the US , number fourteen in Canada , number ten in the Netherlands , and number four in the United Kingdom .
The song has become one of the band  's सबसे लोकप्रिय गीतों और रै remained a स्टेपल of उनके  live act since the song debuted in 1987 on The Joshua Tree Tour .
The song was notably performed on a Los Angeles rooftop for the filming of its music video , which won a Grammy Award for  बेहतरीन प्रदर्शन म्यूज़िक  Video .Recently the song has been used by the NFL 's Baltimore Ravens as their entrance song in Super Bowl XLVII
Thomas Jeffrey `` Tom '' Hanks ( born July 9 , 1956 ) is an American  कर्ता ,  producer , writer , and director .
हैंक्स is ज्ञात लिये उसके भूमिकाएँ in अपोलो 13 , बिग , कि बात तुम do !
, The Green Mile , You 've Got Mail , Sleepless in Seattle , Charlie Wilson 's War , Catch Me If You Can , Forrest  Gump ,  Cast Away , A League of Their Own , The Da Vinci Code , Angels & Demons , as well as animated films like the Toy Story film series , The Polar Express , and The Simpsons Movie .
He has earned and been nominated for numerous awards during his career , including winning a Golden Globe for Best Actor and an Academy Award for Best Actor for his role in Philadelphia and a Golden Globe , an Academy Award , a Screen Actors Guild Award , and a People 's  चुनाव पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन कर्ता लिये उसके भूमिका  in Forrest Gump , and earning the Stanley Kubrick Britannia Award for Excellence in Film from the BAFTAs in 2004 .
Hanks is also known for his  सहयोग साथ फिल्मी निदेशक स्टीवन स्पिलबर्ग  on Saving Private Ryan and the mini-series Band of Brothers , which launched Hanks also as a successful director , producer and writer .
As of 2012 , Hanks '  films  have grossed over $ 4.2 billion at the United States box office alone , and over $ 8.5 billion worldwide making him the highest all-time box office star .
The Cape is an American  सुपरहीरो  drama series .
It premiered on NBC during the 2010–2011 television season as a mid-season replacement beginning with a two-hour pilot episode on  संडे , जनवरी 9 , 2011  at 9 pm Eastern and Pacific Time .
An encore played on Monday , January 10 , with follow-up episodes  continuing  on Monday evenings in the 9 pm timeslot beginning on January 17 .
NBC subsequently cut the total number of episodes to be aired from 13 to 10 as a  परिणाम of कम दरजा .
On March  2 ,  2011 , NBC announced that the series finale would only be aired on the network 's website .
Halley 's Comet or Comet Halley ( or  ) , officially designated  1P/Halley , is the best-known of the short-period comets and is visible from Earth every 75–76 years .
Halley is the only  short-period  comet that is clearly visible to the naked eye from Earth , and thus the only naked-eye comet that might appear twice in a human lifetime .
Other naked-eye comets may be brighter and more spectacular , but will appear only  एकबार in हज़ारों  of years .
हैली 's रिटर्न to the भीतरी सौर प्रणाली have महरूम observed और अंकित by खगोलशास्त्रियों चूंकि at तनिक 240 bce  .
Clear records of the  धूमकेतु 's दिखावे यहूद बना  by Chinese , Babylonian , and medieval European chroniclers , but were not recognized as reappearances of the same object at the time .
The comet 's periodicity was first determined  in 1705 by अंग्रेज़ी astronomer  Edmond Halley , after whom it is now named .
Halley 's Comet last appeared in the inner Solar System  in 1986 और होगा  next appear in mid-2061 .
During its 1986 apparition , Halley became the first comet to be observed in detail by spacecraft , providing the  पहला observational  data on the structure of a comet nucleus and the mechanism of coma and tail formation .
These observations supported a number of longstanding hypotheses about comet construction , particularly Fred Whipple 's `` dirty snowball '' model , which  correctly पूर्वानुमानित  that Halley would be composed of a mixture of volatile ices – such as water , carbon dioxide and ammonia – and dust .
The missions also provided data which  substantially  reformed and reconfigured these ideas ; for instance it is now understood that Halley 's surface is largely composed of dusty , non-volatile materials , and that only a small portion of it is icy .
The following is a list of the most populous  incorporated स्थान  of the United States of America .
As defined by the United States Census Bureau , an `` incorporated   place `` includes a variety of designations , including city , town , village , borough , and municipality .
A few exceptional Census Designated Places ( CDPs ) are also included in the Census Bureau 's listing  of  incorporated places .
Consolidated city-counties represent a distinct type of government that includes the  संपूर्ण जनसांख्यिकी of  a county , or county equivalent .
Some  संचित  city-counties , however , include multiple incorporated places .
This list presents only that portion ( or ``  संतुलन  '' ) of such consolidated city-counties that are not a part of another incorporated place .
Note that this list refers only to the population of individual municipalities within their defined limits , which does not include   other municipalities or unincorporated suburban areas within urban agglomerations .
A different ranking is evident when considering  u.S. महानगर  area populations .
The Mayflower  थी the जलयान कि  in 1620 transported 102 English Pilgrims , including a core group of Separatists , to New England .
Their story  is एक of travail और  survival in a harsh New World environment .
A New Zealand forward ( in white ) takes a shot on goal  विरूद्ध कैमरून  in the 2011 FIFA U-20 World Cup .
आगे , भी ज्ञात as strikers , हैं the  players on a team in association football who play nearest to the opposing team 's goal , and are therefore principally responsible for scoring goals .
This very advanced  स्थिति और इसके सीमित रक्षात्मक  responsibilities mean forwards normally score more goals than other players .
This position requires intelligence ,  गति , और शक्ति , दोनो of निष्पादन  and of thought , to perform the role well .
Modern team formations usually include one to three  आगे ; दो  is the most common .
Coaches typically field one striker who plays in an advanced position ( the centre forward ) , and another attacking forward  जो plays somewhat deeper और assists in बनाना लक्ष्य  as well as scoring ( the second striker ) .
It should be noted that inside forwards develop from attacking midfield  स्थितियाँ और hence हैं naturally  midfielders .
बार्सिलोना  FC star Lionel Messi is a typical Attacking Midfielder seen as a forward due to his shot accuracy .
A California domestic partnership is a legal relationship available to same-sex couples , and to certain opposite-sex couples  in जिससे at तनिक एक पार्टी  is at least 18 years of age .
It affords the couple `` the same rights , protections , and benefits , and ... the same  जिम्मेदारियों , दायित्वों , और कर्तव्य  under law ... '' as married spouses .
enacted in  1999 , the domestic partnership registry was the first of its kind in the United States created by a legislature without court intervention .
Initially , domestic partnerships enjoyed very few  privileges—principally बस hospital-visitation  rights and the right to be claimed as a next of kin of the estate of a deceased partner .
The legislature has since expanded the  पैमाना of कैलिफ़ोर्निया घरेलू partnerships  to include all of the rights and responsibilities common to marriage .
As such , California domestic partnerships  हैं functionally समतुल्य to सिविल संघ  offered in several other states .
हालांकि the कार्यक्रम enjoys व्यापक support in कैलिफ़ोर्निया , it रै महरूम the सोर्स of कुछ  controversy .
Groups opposed to the recognition of same-sex families have challenged the expansion of  घरेलू  partnerships in court .
Conversely , advocates of same-sex marriage  contend कि anything  less than full marriage rights extended to same-sex partners is analogous to the `` separate but equal '' racial laws of the Jim Crow era .
Mark A. Jackson (  born अप्रैल 1 , 1965 ) is an अमरीकी  basketball coach , and former player who is the current head coach of the Golden State Warriors of the NBA .
A point guard from St. John 's University , he played for the New York Knicks , Indiana Pacers , Los Angeles  क्लिपर्स , डेनवर टेंडर्स  , Toronto Raptors , Utah Jazz and Houston Rockets in the NBA in a career spanning from 1987 to 2004 .
Jackson has also worked as a commentator for ESPN and ABC alongside his former coach Jeff Van Gundy and play-by-play man Mike  breen  .
He was previously an NBA analyst for The YES  संजाल  's New Jersey Nets games .
South Africa has eleven official  भाषाएं : अफ्रीकी  , English , Ndebele , Northern Sotho , Sotho , Swazi , Tswana , Tsonga , Venda , Xhosa and Zulu .
Fewer than two percent of South Africans speak a  पहला भाषा अन्य  than an official one .
Most South Africans can speak more  than एक भाषा  .
Dutch and English were the first official languages of  दक्षिण  Africa from 1910 to 1925 .
Afrikaans was  added  as a part of Dutch in 1925 .
Dutch was  replaced by अफ्रीकी जब  South Africa became a republic in 1961 , and Dutch was dropped in 1983 , so between 1983 and 1994 , South Africa had two official languages : English and Afrikaans .
The English version of the South African constitution refers to the languages by the names in those languages : isiZulu , isiXhosa , Afrikaans , Sepedi ( referring to Northern  sotho ) , setswana , अंग्रेज़ी , sesotho ( referring to दक्षिणी sotho ) , xitsonga  , Siswati , Tshivenda and isiNdebele ( referring to Southern Ndebele ) .
In South Africa , Southern Ndebele is known  बस  as Ndebele , as most speakers of Northern Ndebele live in Zimbabwe .
The 1993 version of the Constitution referred to Northern Sotho as Sesotho sa Leboa , but the 1996  संस्करण referred to the  language as Sepedi .
Different government departments and  आधिकारिक लाशें उपयोग  different terms to denote Northern Sotho .
The main language of government is English even if South Africans often take pride in using indigenous languages for any  purpose  .
Afrikaans also features prominently in commerce together with  अंग्रेज़ी as the भाषाएं  with the highest number of fluent speakers are Afrikaans and English .
In terms of linguistic classification , the official languages include two  west-germanic भाषाएं  ( English and Afrikaans ) and nine Bantu languages .
Four of these are  nguni भाषाएं  ( Zulu , Xhosa , Swati and Ndebele ) and three are Sotho–Tswana languages ( Northern Sotho , Southern Sotho and Tswana ) .
Tsonga is a  tswa–ronga  language .
South African Sign Language is a distinct though incompletely emerged national standard language  जिससे भी subsumes a क्लस्टर of semi-standardised  dialects .
Aluminium nitrate is a salt of aluminium and nitric  एसिड , मौजूदा सामान्यतः as a crystalline  hydrate , most commonly as aluminium nitrate nonahydrate , Al ( NO3 ) 3·9H2O .
The New York Jets are a professional  फ़ुटबॉल टोली headquartered  in Florham Park , New Jersey , representing the New York metropolitan area .
The team is a member of the  पूर्वी प्रभाग  of the American Football Conference ( AFC ) in the National Football League ( NFL ) .
In a unique  व्यवस्था लिये the लीग , the jets  share MetLife Stadium in East Rutherford , New Jersey with the New York Giants .
The franchise is legally and corporately  पंजीकृत as  New York Jets , LLC .
The team was founded in 1959 as the Titans of New York , an original member of the American Football League ; later ,  the मताधिकार joined the एनएफएल in the  AFL–NFL merger .
The team began to play in  1960  at the Polo Grounds .
Under new ownership , the  वर्तमान नाम थी अपनाया  in 1963 and the franchise was relocated to Shea Stadium in 1964 and then to the Meadowlands Sports Complex in 1984 .
The Jets advanced to the playoffs for the first time in 1968 and went on to compete in Super Bowl  iii जहाँ  they defeated the Baltimore Colts , becoming the first AFL team to defeat an NFL club in an AFL-NFL World Championship Game .
Since 1968 , the Jets have appeared in the playoffs thirteen times  , और in the afc चैंपियनशिप खेल चार  times , most recently losing to the Pittsburgh Steelers in 2010 .
However , the Jets have never returned to the Super Bowl , making them one of three NFL teams to win their lone Super Bowl appearance , along with the New Orleans Saints and Tampa Bay Buccaneers   .
The team 's training facility , Atlantic  स्वास्थ्य  Jets Training Center , which opened in 2008 , is located in Florham Park .
The team currently holds their annual training camp  सत्र on the कैम्पस of the राज्य विश्वविद्यालयों  of New York at Cortland in Cortland , New York while holding occasional sessions at the Florham Park complex .
psilocybe  semilanceata
psilocybin  mushrooms , also known as psychedelic mushrooms , are fungi that contain psychoactive indole alkaloids .
There are multiple colloquial terms for psilocybin  मशरूम , the सबसे आम होने shrooms  and magic mushrooms .
Biological genera containing psilocybin mushrooms  शामिल agrocybe , conocybe , copelandia , galerina , gerronema ,  Gymnopilus , Hypholoma , Inocybe , Mycena , Panaeolus , Pluteus , and Psilocybe .
There are approximately 190 species of psilocybin  मशरूम और सबसे  of them fall in the genus Psilocybe .
psilocybin मशरूम  have likely been used since prehistoric times and may have been depicted in rock art .
Many cultures have used these  मशरूम in धार्मिक  rites .
In modern Western society they are used  recreationally  for their psychedelic effects .
हाल अध्ययन किया at इम्पीरियल  College London and Johns Hopkins School of Medicine conclude that when used properly , psilocybin acts as an anti-depressant as suggested by fMRI brain scans .
Alaska ( ) is a state in the United States , situated in the northwest extremity of the North  अमरीकी महाद्वीप  , with the international boundary with Canada to the east , the Arctic Ocean to the north , and the Pacific Ocean to the west and south , with Russia further west across the Bering Strait .
Alaska is the largest state in the United States by area , the 4th least  populous और the तनिक densely आबादी  of the 50 United States .
लगभग  half of Alaska 's 731,449 residents live within the Anchorage metropolitan area .
Alaska 's economy is dominated by the oil , natural gas , and fishing industries ; it  रै ये संसाधन  in abundance .
Alaska was purchased from Russia on March 30 , 1867 , for $ 7.2 million ( $ adjusted for inflation  ) at लगभग दो  cents per acre ( $ 4.74/km2 ) .
The land went through several administrative changes before becoming an organized ( or incorporated ) territory on May 11 , 1912 , and the 49th state of the U.S.  on जनवरी 3  , 1959 .
The name `` Alaska '' ( Аляска ) was already  introduced in the रूसी  colonial period , when it was used only for the peninsula and is derived from the Aleut alaxsxaq , meaning `` the mainland '' or , more literally , `` the object towards which the action of the sea is directed '' .
It is also known as Alyeska , the `` great land '' , an Aleut word  निकला इससे  the same root .
The 101 French  विभाग हैं  divided into 342 arrondissements , which may be translated into English as districts .
The capital of an  arrondissement/district  is called a subprefecture .
When an arrondissement contains   the prefecture ( capital ) of the department , that prefecture is the capital of the arrondissement , acting both as a prefecture and as a subprefecture .
Arrondissements are  further विभाजित  into cantons and communes .
The vagina ( from Latin vāgīna , literally `` sheath ''  or ``  scabbard `` ) is a tubular tract which is a sex organ and has two main functions ; sexual intercourse and childbirth .
in इंसानो ,  this passage leads from the opening of the vulva to the uterus ( womb ) , but the vaginal tract ends at the cervix .
Unlike men , who have only one genital orifice , women have two , the urethra  और  the vagina .
The vaginal opening is much  larger than the  urethral opening , and both openings are protected by the labia .
The  भीतरी सांचे of the  vagina has a foldy texture which can create friction for the penis during intercourse .
During arousal ,  the  vagina gets moist to facilitate the entrance of the penis .
The Latinate plural ``  vaginae ''  is rarely used in English .
Colloquially , the word vagina is often used to refer to  the भग or to the  female genitals in general .
However , by its dictionary and anatomical definitions , vagina refers exclusively to  the विशिष्ट  internal structure .
The Cincinnati Reds are a Major League Baseball team based in Cincinnati ,  ओहियो  .
They are members of the National League  सेंट्रल  Division .
Established in 1881 as an independent club , the team  became a चार्टर सदस्य of the अमरीकी  Association in 1882 , and joined the National League in 1890 .
The club traditionally traces its origin to baseball  's  first openly professional team in 1869 .
The Reds have won  पाँच  World Series titles , one American Association pennant , nine National League pennants and ten division titles .
The Reds played in the National League  वेस्ट between 1969  and 1993 and have been in the National League Central since 1994 .
Since 2003 , the Reds have played at Great American Ball Park , built next to their home from 1970 to  2002 ,  Riverfront Stadium .
Bob  castellini  has owned the Cincinnati Reds since 2006 .
A prank stink  बमबारी  .
A stink bomb is a device  designed to बनाएँ  an unpleasant smell .
They range in effectiveness from simple pranks to military grade malodorants or  riot कंट्रोल रासायनिक  agents .
The  गिनीज किताब of  Records lists two smelliest substances .
One is `` US Government Standard Bathroom Malodor  '' ; a मिश्रण of आठ  chemicals with a stench resembling human feces , only much stronger , designed to test the efficacy of deodorizers and air fresheners .
Another one , `` Who me ? `` , is a mixture of five sulfur-containing chemicals and smells  जैसे rotting खाना और  carcasses .
The adage `` A  चित्र is  worth a thousand words '' refers to the notion that a complex idea can be conveyed with just a single still image .
It also  aptly characterizes  one of the main goals of visualization , namely making it possible to absorb large amounts of data quickly .
The  अभिव्यक्ति  `` Use a picture .
It 's worth a thousand words . '' appears in a 1911 newspaper article  quoting समाचारपत्र एडिटर आर्थर  Brisbane discussing journalism and publicity .
1913 newspaper   advertisement
A similar phrase , `` One Look Is Worth A Thousand Words '' , appears in a 1913 newspaper  विज्ञापन लिये  the Piqua Auto Supply House of Piqua , Ohio .
An early use of the exact phrase appears in an 1918 newspaper  विज्ञापन  for the San Antonio Light which says : One of the Nation 's Greatest Editors Says : One Picture is Worth a Thousand Words The San Antonio Light 's Pictorial Magazine of the War Exemplifies the truth of the above statement -- judging from the warm reception it has received at the hands of the Sunday Light readers .
It is believed by some that the modern use of the phrase stems from an article by  फ्रेड R. बर्नार्ड in the विज्ञापन व्यापार  journal Printers ' Ink , promoting the use of images in advertisements that appeared on the sides of streetcars .
The December 8 , 1921 issue carries an ad  हकदार , `` एक  Look is Worth A Thousand Words . ''
Another ad by Barnard appears in the March 10 , 1927 issue with the phrase `` One Picture Worth  टेन हजार  Words , '' where it is labeled a Chinese proverb ( 一圖勝萬言 ) .
The Home Book of Proverbs , Maxims , and Familiar Phrases quotes Barnard as saying he called it `` a Chinese proverb , so that  लोगों होता लो it seriously  . ''
Soon after ,  the कहावत होता  become popularly attributed to Confucius .
The  चर्चा of `` एक चित्र लायक हजार शब्द ''  versus `` One Picture Worth Ten Thousand Words '' Wan yen I hua and 10.000 miles worth 10.000 books is cited in Information graphics where the concept of many in different disciplines and cultures .
A picture is  लायक a हजार  words
Despite this modern origin of the  लोकप्रिय phrase  , the sentiment has been expressed by earlier writers .
For example the Russian writer Ivan Turgenev wrote ( in Fathers and Sons in 1862 ) , `` A picture shows me  at a glance  what it takes dozens of pages of a book to expound . ''
Computer programmer and author Fred Brooks makes an opposite statement regarding  प्रोग्रामिंग in the mythical man-month  : `` Show me your flowcharts and conceal your tables , and I shall continue to be mystified .
Show me your tables ,   and I won’t usually need your flowcharts ; they’ll be obvious . ''
The phrase has also been  spoofed by जॉन मैकार्थी , the प्रसिद्ध  computer scientist , to make the opposite point : `` As the Chinese say , 1001 words is worth more than a picture . ''
A season is a subdivision of the year , marked by changes in weather , ecology , and  घंटों of daylight .
Seasons result from the yearly revolution of the  धरती around the सूर्य  and the tilt of the Earth 's axis relative to the plane of revolution .
In temperate and polar regions , the seasons are marked by changes in the intensity of sunlight that reaches the Earth 's surface , variations of which may cause animals to go into hibernation or to migrate , and plants to be dormant   .
During May , June  और जुलाई  , the northern hemisphere is exposed to more direct sunlight because the hemisphere faces the sun .
The same is true of the southern hemisphere in  नवम्बर , दिसम्बर  and January .
It is the tilt of the Earth that causes the Sun to be higher in the sky  दौरान  the summer months which increases the solar flux .
However , due to seasonal lag , June , July and August are the hottest months in the northern hemisphere and December , January and February are the hottest months in the southern  गोलार्ध  .
In temperate and subpolar regions , generally four calendar -based seasons ( with their  adjectives ) हैं पहचाना : वसन्त ( vernal  ) , summer ( estival ) , autumn ( autumnal ) and winter ( hibernal ) .
However , ecologists mostly use a six season model for temperate climate regions that includes pre-spring  ( prevernal ) और लेट गर्मियाँ  ( serotinal ) as distinct seasons along with the traditional four .
Hot regions have two or three seasons ; the rainy ( or wet , or  मानसून ) ऋतु और the शुष्क ऋतु , और in  some tropical areas , a cool or mild season .
In some parts of the  संसार , खास `` सीज़न '' हैं  loosely defined based on important events such as a hurricane season , tornado season or a wildfire season .
The six ecological  सीज़न
The four calendar seasons ,  चित्रित in an प्राचीन रोमन  mosaic from Tunisia
Dutch exports  in 2006
At the time of writing the  नीदरलैंड्स is the 17th largest  economy of the world .
( see : List of countries by GDP  ( नाममात्र )  )
GDP per capita is roughly $ 42,000 which puts it in the top 10 of  richest nations in the  world ( see : List of countries by GDP ( PPP ) per capita ) .
Between 1996 and 2000 annual economic growth ( GDP ) averaged  over 4 %  , well above the European average .
Growth slowed considerably in 2001-05 as part  of the वैश्विक आर्थिक slowdown  .
2006 and 2007 however showed economic growth of  3.4 %  and 3.9 % .
The Dutch economy was hit  considerably by the  ongoing global financial crisis and the ensuing European debt crisis .
Several banks went bankrupt , and a number of others had to receive  सरकारी सहायता  .
In 2009 the economy declined with 3.5 % ,  followed by  two years of mild growth .
The Dutch economy is currently  in a  recession again , with an economic decline of 0.5 % in 2012 .
महंगाई  is at 3.2 % in February 2013 .
Unemployment has been  अपेक्षाकृत  low compared to other EU nations for decades but after mid-2012 it has seen a fast increase and in February 2013 it has hit 7.7 % .
The  नीदरलैंड्स प्रबंधित  to maintain its AAA rating at least until March 2013 according to the three major credit rating agencies .
Historically , the Dutch introduced and invented the stock market by the merchandise trading through  डच वेस्ट इण्डिया कम्पनी .
The Netherlands is a founding member of the European Union , the OECD and  the संसार  Trade Organization .
Loyal to  the खेल is the दसवाँ  studio album and sixth studio album by Tupac Shakur .
It contains remixes of previously unreleased music recorded by Shakur before his death in  1996  .
Released in the United States on December 14 , 2004 ( December 12 in  the  United Kingdom ) , Loyal to the Game was produced by Eminem .
The original panel of The View ; Meredith Vieira , Star Jones , Debbie Matenopoulos and Barbara  walters  in 1997 .
The View is an American talk show  ब्रॉडकास्ट on एबीसी कि debuted  in 1997 as part of the network 's daytime programming block .
Created by Barbara Walters and Bill Geddie , who both also serve as the show 's executive producers , the program  सुविधाएँ a फलक of महिलाओं as co-hosts  .
Along with Walters , the current panel includes Whoopi Goldberg , who serves as the  मॉडरेटर , आनन्द behar , एलिज़ाबेथ  Hasselbeck , and Sherri Shepherd .
International versions of the program  हैं aired in  several countries .
As of the 2012–13 season , its 16th , The View is the fourth-longest running national daytime talk show in history ,  पीछे the फिल donahue दिखाएँ ( 29 ) , the variously-named  Live !
कार्यक्रम  ( 25 ) , and The Oprah Winfrey Show ( 25 ) .
Prunus virginiana , commonly called bitter-berry , chokecherry , Virginia bird cherry and western chokecherry ( also black chokecherry for P. virginiana var . demissa ) , is a species of bird cherry ( Prunus subgenus Padus ) native to North America ; the natural  ऐतिहासिक दायरा of P. virginiana शामिल सबसे of the महाद्वीप , मगर  for the far north and far south .
Los Angeles International Airport is the primary airport serving the Greater Los Angeles Area ,  the second-most आबादी महानगर  area in the United States .
It is most  प्रायः referred to by  its IATA airport code LAX , with the letters pronounced individually .
lax is स्तिथ in southwestern  Los Angeles along the Pacific coast in the neighborhood of Westchester , from the downtown core and is the primary airport of Los Angeles World Airports ( LAWA ) , an agency of the Los Angeles city government formerly known as the Department of Airports .
In 2011 , LAX was the sixth busiest airport in the world after Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport , Beijing  Capital  International Airport , London Heathrow Airport , Chicago O'Hare International Airport , and Tokyo Haneda International Airport with 61,862,052 passengers .
The  विमानक्षेत्र  holds the claim for `` the world 's busiest origin and destination ( O & D ) airport '' in 2011 that involves non-connecting passenger traffic .
It is also the only airport to rank among the top  पाँच u.S. एयरपोर्ट लिये  both passenger and cargo traffic .
LAX is the busiest airport in the Greater Los Angeles Area , but other airports including  bob आशा विमानक्षेत्र , जॉन वेन विमानक्षेत्र  , Long Beach Airport , LA/Ontario International Airport , and Palm Springs International Airport also serve the region .
LAX is also the busiest airport in California and the West Coast of the United States in terms of flight operations , passenger traffic and  एयर कार्गो कार्यकलाप , अग्रणी it to be  referred to as the `` Gateway to the Pacific Rim `` .
Peyton Williams Manning ( born March 24 , 1976 ) is an American football  क्वार्टरबैक लिये  the Denver Broncos of the National Football League ( NFL ) .
He played for the Indianapolis Colts for 14  सीज़न इससे  1998 to 2011 .
He  is the बेटे of  former NFL quarterback Archie Manning and an elder brother of New York Giants quarterback Eli Manning .
Manning played college football for the University of Tennessee , leading the  स्वयंसेवक  to the 1997 SEC Championship in his senior season .
However , No . 3 Tennessee lost to the No . 2 Nebraska Cornhuskers 42-17 in the Orange Bowl giving Nebraska and Tom  ओसबोर्न उनके 3rd नेशनल  championship in 4 years .
He  थी चुनी  by the Indianapolis Colts with the first overall pick in the 1998 NFL Draft .
From 1998  to 2010 , he led the कोल्टस to आठ ( सात afc दक्षिण  and one AFC East ) division championships , two AFC championships , and to a Super Bowl championship ( Super Bowl XLI ) .
He has won a record four league most valuable player awards , was the most valuable  खिलाड़ी of सुपर कटोरी xli , रै महरूम नामित to बारह प्रो प्याले , रै बारह 4,000-yard गुजर  seasons , and is the Indianapolis Colts ' all-time leader in passing yards ( 54,828 ) and touchdown passes ( 399 ) .
In 2009 , he was named the best player in the NFL and Fox  खेल साथ साथ  Sports Illustrated named him the NFL player of the decade of the 2000s .
In May 2011 , he underwent neck surgery to alleviate neck pain and arm weakness he dealt with during the previous few seasons before signing a five-year , $ 90 million contract extension with the Colts in July   2011 .
Manning had hoped to play in the  2011 ऋतु , लकिन in सितंबर  2011 , he underwent a much more serious second surgery : a level one cervical fusion procedure .
मैनिंग था never छूटी  an NFL game in his career , but was forced to miss the entire 2011 season .
He was released by the Colts on March 7 ,  2012 , और बाद an लगभग  two-week period where he visited with and worked out for several NFL teams , he signed with the Denver Broncos on March 20 , 2012 .
Manning 's  pre-snap दिनचर्या रै अर्जित  him the nickname , `` The Sheriff '' and is one of the most recognizable and parodied in the NFL .
The Indianapolis Colts ' almost exclusive use of the hurry-up offense led to Manning using an array of gestures and verbal commands to call  the  play at the line of scrimmage rather than in the huddle .
The America Tower of the  अमरीकी  General Center , the headquarters of Baker Hughes
बेकर ह्यूजेस  is one of the world 's largest oilfield services companies .
It operates in over 90 countries , providing the oil and gas industry with products  और सेवाएं लिये खुदाई ,  formation evaluation , completion , production and reservoir consulting .
Baker Hughes has its headquarters in the America Tower in the American General  बीच in neartown , ह्यूस्टन  .
बेकर ह्यूजेस incorporated थी  formed when Baker International and Hughes Tool Company merged in 1987 .
Baker Hughes operates worldwide with major offices in Liverpool , United Kingdom ; Singapore ; Dubai ; a research and maintenance facility in Celle , Germany ; Lafayette , Louisiana ; Houston , Texas ; Pescara ,  इटली ; और kuala lumpur ,  Malaysia .
the कम्पनी is administered  broadly in two hemispheres : the eastern hemisphere with five regions ( Europe , Africa , the Middle East , Asia Pacific and Russia/Caspian ) and the western hemisphere with four regions ( Canada , US Land , US Gulf , and Latin America ) .
Each of these regions  is subdivided  into markets .
The United States one- cent coin , commonly known as a penny , is a unit of currency equaling one  one-hundredth of a संयुक्त  States dollar .
The cent 's  प्रतीक  is ¢ .
Its obverse has featured the  प्रोफ़ाइल  of President Abraham Lincoln since 1909 , the centennial of his birth .
From 1959 ( the  sesquicentennial of lincoln  's birth ) to 2008 , the reverse featured the Lincoln Memorial .
Four different reverse designs in 2009 honored Lincoln 's 200th birthday and a new , permanent reverse – the  संघ शील्ड  – was introduced in 2010 .
The coin is 0.75 inches ( 19.05 mm ) in diameter and 0.061 inches  (  1.55 mm ) in thickness .
The  u.S. मिंट 's आधिकारिक  name for a penny is `` '' and the U.S. Treasury 's official name is `` one cent piece '' .
The colloquial term penny derives from the British coin of the  वही  name , the pre-decimal version of which had a similar value .
In American English , pennies is the plural form , other plural forms pence and pee ( standard  उपयोग in अंग्रेजों अंग्रेज़ी  ) are not used .
As of 2012 , it costs the U.S. Mint 2.00 cents to make a cent because of the cost of  सामग्री और उत्पादन  .
This figure includes the Mint’s fixed components for distribution and fabrication ,  अनुमानित at $ 13 लाख in  FY 2011 .
it भी शामिल  Mint overhead allocated to the penny , which was $ 17.7 million for 2011 .
Fixed costs and overhead  होता have  to be absorbed by other circulating coins without the penny .
The loss in profitability due to producing the one cent coin in the United States for the year of 2012 was $  58,000,000  .
This was a slight decrease from  2011 , the साल पहले , जिससे  had a production loss of $ 60,200,000 .
or more specifically , are ornamental varieties of domesticated common carp ( Cyprinus carpio ) that are  रखा लिये सजावटी उद्देश्य in बाहरी  koi ponds or water gardens .
Koi  किस्में हैं विशिष्ट  by coloration , patterning , and scalation .
Some of the major colors are white , black , red , yellow ,  ब्लू , और  cream .
The most popular category of koi is  the gosanke , जिससे is बना up of the kohaku  , Taisho Sanshoku , and Showa Sanshoku varieties .
The American Federation of  सरकारी कर्मचारी ( afge ) is an  American labor union representing over 650,000 employees of the federal government , about 5,000 employees of the District of Columbia , and a few hundred private sector employees , mostly in and around federal facilities .
AFGE is the largest union for civilian , non- postal  संघीय कर्मचारी और the largest संघ  for District of Columbia employees who report directly to the mayor ( i.e. , outside of D.C. public schools ) .
It is affiliated with the  afl-cio  .
A late  सिल्यूरियन  sporangium .
Green : A spore  tetrad  .
Blue : A  spore bearing a trilete  mark – the -shaped scar .
The spores are about 30-35  μm  across
The evolution of plants has resulted in increasing levels of complexity , from the earliest algal mats , through bryophytes ,  lycopods , ferns to the जटिल gymnosperms  and angiosperms of today .
While many of the groups which appeared earlier continue to thrive  , especially in the  environments in which they evolved , for a time each new grade of organisation became more `` successful '' than its predecessors .
In the Ordovician period ,  around , the  first land plants appeared .
These began to diversify in the late Silurian Period , around , and the results of their  diversification हैं प्रदर्शित in उल्लेखनीय विवरण in an जल्दी devonian  fossil assemblage from the Rhynie chert .
This chert preserved early plants  in सेल्यूलर विवरण , petrified  in volcanic springs .
By the middle of the Devonian Period , most of the features   recognised in plants today are present , including roots , leaves and secondary wood ; and , by late Devonian times , seeds had evolved .
Late Devonian plants had thereby reached a degree of  परिष्कार कि अनुमत उन्हें to रूप  forests of tall trees .
Evolutionary innovation continued into the  carboniferous काल और is स्टिल  ongoing today .
सबसे संयंत्र समूह  were relatively unscathed by the Permo-Triassic extinction event , although the structures of communities changed .
This may have set the scene for the appearance of the  flowering पौधे in the triassic (  ~ ) , and their later diversification in the Cretaceous and Paleogene .
The latest major  समूह of पौधे to evolve  were the grasses , which became important in the mid-Paleogene , from around .
The grasses , as well as many  अन्य समूह , विकसित नई mechanisms  of metabolism to survive the low and warm , dry conditions of the tropics over the last .
The winning Super Bowl team receives the  विंस लोम्बार्डी  Trophy .
The Super Bowl is an annual American football game that determines the champion of the National  फ़ुटबॉल लीग  ( NFL ) .
The contest is held in an American  नगर  that is chosen three to four years beforehand , usually in warm-weather or domed sites .
Since 1971 , the winner of the American Football Conference ( AFC )  चैंपियनशिप खेल रै faced the विजेता of the नेशनल  Football Conference ( NFC ) Championship Game in the culmination of the NFL playoffs .
Before the 1970 merger between the American Football League ( AFL ) and the National Football  League ( NFL ) , the two  leagues met in four such contests .
The first two were  ज्ञात as the  `` AFL-NFL World Championship Game . ''
Super Bowl III in 1969 was the first such game that carried the `` Super Bowl '' moniker , the names `` Super  कटोरी i `` और `` सुपर कटोरी  II `` were retroactively applied to the first two games .
The NFC /NFL leads in Super Bowl wins  साथ 25 , जबकि the  AFC /AFL has won 22 .
Eighteen different franchises , including teams that relocated to another  नगर , have जीती  the Super Bowl .
The Pittsburgh Steelers have won the most Super Bowls with six championships ( record 6–2 ) , while both the Dallas Cowboys and San  फ्रांसिस्को 49ers have पाँच विन्स प्रत्येक ( cowboys 5–3 ;  49ers 5–1 ) .
Dallas and Pittsburgh have the most Super Bowl  दिखावे साथ आठ  , while the Buffalo Bills have the most consecutive appearances with four losses in a row from 1990 to 1993 .
The New England Patriots , Denver Broncos and Minnesota Vikings  have भी खोया  a record four Super Bowls .
Buffalo and Minnesota are both 0–4 , Denver is 2–4 and New  इंग्लैण्ड is 3–4 .
The  रिकार्ड लिये लगातार विन्स is दो और is साझा by सात franchises  : the 1966-67 Green Bay Packers , the 1972-73 Miami Dolphins , the 1974-75 and 1978-79 Pittsburgh Steelers ( the only team to accomplish this feat twice ) , the 1988-89 San Francisco 49ers , the 1992-93 Dallas Cowboys , the 1997-98 Denver Broncos , and the 2003-04 New England Patriots .
The only team with multiple Super Bowl appearances and no losses is the Baltimore Ravens , who in winning Super  कटोरी xlvii  unseated and replaced the 49ers in that position .
Four  वर्तमान एनएफएल टीमों have never appeared in a सुपर कटोरी , सहित  franchise relocations and renaming : the Cleveland Browns , Detroit Lions , Jacksonville Jaguars , and Houston Texans , though both the Browns and Lions had won NFL Championship games prior to the creation of the Super Bowl .
Martin County is a county located in the U.S. state of  टेक्सास  .
As of  the  2010 census , its population was 4,799 .
Its  सीट  is Stanton .
the काउंटी is नामित लिये wylie मार्टिन , an जल्दी settler .
Martin County is one of 30 prohibition , or entirely dry ,  काउंटी in the राज्य of  Texas .
Alkaline phosphatase ( ALP , ALKP ) ( ) is a hydrolase  एंजाइम जिम्मेदार लिये निकालना  phosphate groups from many types of molecules , including nucleotides , proteins , and alkaloids .
The process of removing the phosphate   group is called dephosphorylation .
As the name suggests ,  क्षारीय phosphatases हैं  most effective in an alkaline environment .
It is sometimes used  synonymously as मौलिक  phosphatase .
Triticale ( × Triticosecale ) , ( ) is a hybrid of wheat ( Triticum ) and rye ( Secale ) first bred in  laboratories  during the late 19th century .
The grain was  originally  bred in Scotland and Sweden .
Commercially available triticale is almost always  a दूसरी पीढी  hybrid , i.e. , a cross between two kinds of primary ( first cross ) triticales .
As a rule , triticale combines the yield  संभावित और अनाज विशेषता  of wheat with the disease and environmental tolerance ( including soil conditions ) of rye .
Only  recently रै  it been developed into a commercially viable crop .
Depending on  the cultivar  , triticale can more or less resemble either of its parents .
It is grown mostly for forage or fodder  , हालांकि कुछ triticale-based भोजन  can be purchased at health food stores or are to be found in some breakfast cereals .
When crossing wheat and rye , wheat is  प्रयुक्त as the मादा जनक  and rye as the male parent ( pollen donor ) .
The resulting hybrid is sterile , and must be  treated साथ colchicine  to induce polyploidy and thus the ability to reproduce itself .
The primary producers of triticale are  कैंडल  , Germany , France , Belarus and Australia .
In 2009 , according to the Food and Agriculture  संगठन ( fao ) , 15.0 लाख  tons were harvested in 29 countries across the world .
The triticale hybrids are all amphidiploid , which means the plant is diploid for two genomes  निकला इससे अलग प्रजाति  .
In  अन्य शब्द  , triticale is an allotetraploid .
In earlier years , most work was  किया on octoploid triticale  .
अलग ploidy स्तर  have been created and evaluated over time .
The tetraploids showed little promise , but hexaploid triticale was successful  पर्याप्त to ढूँढें वाणिज्यिक  application .
The CIMMYT triticale  सुधार कार्यक्रम चाही to improve  food production and nutrition in developing countries .
Triticale has potential in the production of bread and other food   products , such as cookies , pasta , pizza dough and breakfast cereals .
The protein content is higher than that of wheat ,  हालांकि the glutenin भिन्न  is less .
The grain has also been stated to have higher  स्तर of lysine  than wheat .
assuming increased स्वीकृति  , the milling industry will have to adapt to triticale , as the milling techniques employed for wheat are unsuited to triticale .
Sell  et al . मिला triticale could be प्रयुक्त  as a feed grain , and later research found its starch was particularly readily digested .
As a feed grain ,  triticale is already  well established and of high economic importance .
It has received attention as a potential energy crop , and research is currently being conducted on the use  of the क्रॉप 's बायोमास in bioethanol उत्पादन  .
`` Puff , the Magic Dragon '' is a song written  by  Leonard Lipton and Peter Yarrow , and made popular by Yarrow 's group Peter , Paul and Mary in a 1963 recording .
The  सोंग  achieved great popularity .
A college football national championship in the highest level of collegiate play in the United States , currently the National  कॉलेजिएट एथलेटिक संघ (  NCAA ) Division I Football Bowl Subdivision ( FBS ) , is a designation awarded annually by various third-party organizations to their selection ( s ) of the best college football team ( s ) .
प्रभाग i fbs ( formerly प्रभाग i-a )  football is the only NCAA sport in which a yearly champion is not determined by an NCAA sanctioned championship event .
Because the championship team is not determined by a NCAA championship or tournament event , it is sometimes  unofficially referred to as a `` mythical  national championship `` .
Since the  ncaa , the खेल 's शासी  body , does not determine or declare a national champion in this field , determination of such has often engendered controversy .
A  चैंपियनशिप टोली is independently  declared by various individuals and organizations , often referred to as `` selectors '' .
ये  choices are sometimes at odds with each other .
While the NCAA has never officially endorsed an annual championship team , it has documented the choices of several  चयनकर्ताओं in the आधिकारिक ncaa फ़ुटबॉल कटोरी  Subdivision Records .
In addition ,  विभिन्न तीसरा पार्टी विश्लेषकों have independently  published their own lists of what they have determined to be the most legitimate selections for each season .
These are also often at odds  साथ प्रत्येक अन्य as खूब as व्यक्तिगत  school 's claims on national championships , which , for any particular season , may or may not correlate to the selections published elsewhere .
Currently , two widely recognized national champions  चयनकर्ताओं हैं the संबद्ध दबायें , जिससे conducts a पोल of फ़ुटबॉल  sportswriters , and the USA Today Coaches ' Poll , a poll of American Football Coaches Association active coaches that is contractually obligated to name the winner of the Bowl Championship Series championship game as its national champion .
The Milwaukee Brewers are a  पेशेवर बेसबॉल  team based in Milwaukee , Wisconsin .
The  टोली is  a member of the Central Division of Major League Baseball 's National League and plays its home games at Miller Park .
The team is so named because of the  नगर  's association with the brewing industry .
The  वॉशिंगटन नागरिकों  are a professional baseball team based in Washington , D.C .
The Nationals are a member of  the ईस्ट प्रभाग of  the National League of Major League Baseball ( MLB ) .
The  टोली 's घर ballpark is नागरिकों  Park , located on South Capitol Street in Southeast D.C. , near the Anacostia River .
The park opened in 2008 , replacing RFK Stadium , the  टोली 's  home from 2005 to 2007 .
The Nationals ' name derives from the former Washington baseball team that had the same name ( used  interchangeably साथ सीनेटरों )  .
Their nickname is `` the Nats '' —a shortened version that was  भी प्रयुक्त by the बूढ़ा  D.C. teams .
An expansion franchise , the club was founded in as the Montreal Expos , the first major  लीग टोली in कनाडा  .
They were based in Montreal , Quebec , and  निभाई उनके घर खेल at jarry पार्क  Stadium and later in Olympic Stadium .
In , the Expos won a division championship , won their first-ever playoff series by defeating the Philadelphia  फ़िलीज़  , 3–2 , and advanced to the National League Championship Series , where they would go on to lose to the Los Angeles Dodgers , 3–2 , in their only postseason appearance during the strike-shortened season .
The Expos had their highest winning percentage  in the strike-shortened  season of , when the team had the best record in baseball .
The team 's subsequent  shedding of खिलाड़ी caused  fan interest to drop off .
After the 2001 season , MLB considered revoking the team 's franchise , along with  either the मिनेसोटा जुड़वा  or the Tampa Bay Devil Rays .
After being purchased by MLB  in 2002 , the टोली थी  moved before the season to Washington and renamed the Nationals , the first relocation since the second Washington Senators moved to Arlington , Texas , and became the Texas Rangers in .
The Nationals are one of two MLB franchises , and the only one in the National League , that has never played in a  संसार श्रेणी ( the सिएटल मैरीनेर्स हैं the  other ) .
A contingent fee ( in the United States ) or conditional  शुल्क (  in England and Wales ) is any fee for services provided where the fee is payable only if there is a favourable result .
In the law , it is defined as a `` fee charged for a lawyer 's services only if the lawsuit  is कामयाब or is  favorably settled out of court ... .
Contingent fees are usually calculated as a  प्रतिशत of  the client 's net recovery . ''
In the English legal system , it is generally  referred to as no जीत  no fee .
A  सशर्त शुल्क  agreement between a law firm and a client .
The usual form  of इस  agreement is that the solicitor will take a law case on the understanding that if lost , no payment is made .
However , if the case is won , the lawyer will be entitled  to the  normal fee based on hourly billing , plus a success fee .
The success fee in England must be as a percentage no greater  than 100 % of the सामान्य  fee .
This contrasts with the contingency  शुल्क in the us , जिससे  gives the successful attorney a percentage of the damages awarded in favor of his client .
This makes it easier for the poor to pursue their civil rights since otherwise , to sue someone for a tort , one  जरूर पहला be धनवान पर्याप्त to pursue ऐसे वाद in  the first place .
However , because of the high risk , few attorneys will take cases on a  आकस्मिकता  basis unless they feel the case has good merit .
According to a 2004 book by law professor Herbert Kritzer  , निर्भर शुल्क यहूद अनुमत  as of that year in the following countries : Australia , Brazil , Canada , the Dominican Republic , France , Greece , Ireland , Japan , New Zealand , the United Kingdom and the United States .
They are also  अनुमत in निजी चोट  actions in Lithuania .
Recently , they have been allowed  in बेल्जियम  as well .
a convocation  ( Latin 'calling together ' , translating the Greek ecclesia ) is a group of people formally assembled for a special purpose .
Sons of Anarchy is  a टेलीविज़न  drama series created by Kurt Sutter about the lives of a close-knit outlaw motorcycle club operating in Charming , a fictional town in California 's Central Valley .
The show centers on protagonist Jackson `` Jax '' Teller ( Charlie Hunnam ) , the  then-vice अध्यक्ष of the क्लबों ,  who begins questioning the club and himself .
Sons of Anarchy  premiered  on September 3 , 2008 , on cable network FX .
The third season of the series attracted an average of 4.9 million viewers per week , making it  fx 's उच्चतम रेटेड श्रेणी कभी , surpassing  FX 's other hits The Shield , Nip/Tuck , and Rescue Me .
On February 3 , 2012 , Sons of Anarchy was renewed for two additional seasons ,  a पांचवां और a छठे  .
Those involved in the production of the series imply that a seventh and final season  is  creator Kurt Sutter 's plan .
The Grímsvötn sub-glacial lakes ( ; vötn = `` waters '' , singular : ) and the volcano  of the वही नाम हैं in south-east आइसलैंड  .
They are in the highlands of  आइसलैंड at the northwestern  side of the Vatnajökull ice-cap .
The lakes are  at ,  at an elevation of .
Beneath the lakes is the magma chamber of  the grímsvötn  volcano .
Grímsvötn is a basaltic volcano which has the highest eruption frequency of  सब the ज्वालामुखी in आइसलैंड  and has a southwest-northeast-trending fissure system .
The massive  climate-impacting  Laki fissure eruption of 1783–1784 was a part of the same fissure system .
Grímsvötn was erupting at the same time as Laki during 1783 , but continued to erupt  जबतक 1785  .
Because most of the volcano lies underneath Vatnajökull , most of its eruptions have been subglacial and the interaction of magma and meltwater from the ice causes phreatomagmatic explosive   activity .
On 21 May  2011  at 19:25 UTC , an eruption began , with high plumes accompanied by multiple earthquakes , resulting in cancellation of 900 flights in Iceland , and in the United Kingdom , Greenland , Germany , Ireland and Norway on 22–25 May .
Until 25 May the eruption scale had been larger than that of the 2010  फटना of eyjafjallajökull  .
The eruption stopped at 02:40 UTC on 25 May 2011 , although  there was some  explosive activity from the tephra vents affecting only the area around the crater .
vetting is the प्रक्रम of  performing a background check on someone before offering them employment , conferring an award , etc .
A prospective  व्यक्ति  or project may be vetted before making a hiring decision .
In addition , in  प्रज्ञा महफ़िल , एसेट हैं  vetted to determine their usefulness .
Former  मुख्यालय  and current corporate offices
Caesars Entertainment Corporation ( formerly Harrah 's Entertainment from 1995 to 2010 ) is an American public gaming corporation that owns and operates over 50 casinos , hotels , and  सात गोल्फ़ पाठ्यक्रम  under several brands .
The company  , based in  Paradise , Nevada , is the largest gaming company in the world , with annual revenues of $ 8.9 billion ( 2010 ) .
Caesars is a  पब्लिक कम्पनी , साथ  a joint venture of Apollo Global Management and Texas Pacific Group ownig a large portion of the stack and Blackstone Group also holding a significant stake .
The name  बदलें इससे `` harrah 's entertainment  Inc. '' to `` Caesars Entertainment Corporation '' was made official on November 23 , 2010 .
Harrah 's remains a  कुंजी ब्रांड  in the company .
On November 5 , 2010 , Harrah 's announced an  आरंभिक  public offering of 31,250,000 shares but retracted this offering on November 19 .
A Permanent Resident in Canada is a person who is not a Canadian citizen but  जो रै महरूम granted अनुमति  to live and work in Canada without any time limit on his or her stay .
A permanent resident must live in Canada for two years  आउट of प्रत्येक  five or risk losing that status .
A Permanent Resident holds many of the  वही अधिकारों  and responsibilities as a Canadian citizen , among others the right to work for any enterprise as well as for the federal or provincial government ( under restriction of access rights to certain regulated professions ) .
The main differences  हैं कि  residents can not :
vote  in चुनावों  in Canada ;
run for  निर्वाचित  office ;
hold  कनाडाई  passports ;
In addition , they may be allowed to  जुड़ें कनाडा 's हथियारबंद  forces if the national interest would not be prejudiced .
Permanent  निवासियों भी रिस्क प्रत्यर्पण  for serious crimes committed while resident in Canada .
Permanent residents may apply for  कनाडाई नागरिकता  after three years in Canada ; however this is not mandatory .
Erica Kane is a fictional character from the  अमरीकी  ABC Daytime soap opera All My Children .
The character was portrayed by actress Susan Lucci from her debut on January 16 ,  1970 जबतक the पिछला ब्रॉडकास्ट  television episode aired on September 23 , 2011 .
On February 11 , 2013 , it was announced that Lucci  होगा guest-star  on the Prospect Park 's continuation of All My Children .
In the U.S. , Erica is considered to be the most popular  अक्षर in साबुन ओपेरा इतिहास  .
Regarding the North-American market , TV Guide calls her ``  unequivocally the सबसे प्रसिद्ध साबुन ओपेरा अक्षर in  the history of daytime TV '' , and included her in their 2013 list of The 60 Nastiest Villains of All Time .
A graph   of the US CPI from 1913 to 2006 ( in blue ) , and its percent annual change ( in red )
A consumer price index ( CPI )  measures  changes in the price level of a market basket of consumer goods and services purchased by households .
The CPI in the United States is defined  by the Bureau of  Labor Statistics as `` a measure of the average change over time in the prices paid by urban consumers for a market basket of consumer goods and services . ''
the cpi is a सांख्यिकीय  estimate constructed using the prices of a sample of representative items whose prices are collected periodically .
Sub-indexes and sub-sub-indexes are computed for different categories and sub-categories of goods and services , being combined to produce  the overall अनुक्रमणिका साथ weights reflecting  their shares in the total of the consumer expenditures covered by the index .
it is एक of अनेक  price indices calculated by most national statistical agencies .
The annual percentage change in  a cpi  is used as a measure of inflation .
A CPI can be used to index ( i.e. , adjust for the effect of inflation ) the  रियल मान of मजदूरी  , salaries , pensions , for regulating prices and for deflating monetary magnitudes to show changes in real values .
In most countries , the CPI is , along with the population census and the USA National Income and  उत्पाद खाते ,  one of the most closely watched national economic statistics .
Knocking on wood , or to touch wood , refers to the apotropaic tradition in  पश्चिमी लोकगीत of वस्तुतः touching/knocking  on wood , or merely stating that you are doing or intend same , in order to avoid `` tempting fate `` after making a favourable observation , a boast , or declaration concerning one 's own death .
रॉकर  arm
Generally referred to within the context of the internal combustion engine of automotive , marine , motorcycle and reciprocating aviation engines , the rocker arm is an oscillating lever that conveys radial movement from the cam lobe into linear movement at the poppet valve  to खोलें it  .
One end is  उठाया  and lowered by a rotating lobe of the camshaft ( either directly or via a tappet ( lifter ) and pushrod ) while the other end acts on the valve stem .
When the camshaft lobe raises the outside of the arm , the inside presses down on the valve  स्टेम , खोलने the वाल्व  .
When the outside of the arm is permitted to return due to the camshafts rotation , the inside  उदय , allowing the वाल्व वसन्त to बंद the  valve .
The  ड्राइव कैम  is driven by the camshaft .
This pushes the rocker arm up and down about  the trunnion pin  or rocker shaft .
Friction may be reduced at the point of contact with the valve stem by a roller cam  अनुसरणकर्ता  .
A similar  व्यवस्था  transfers the motion via another roller cam follower to a second rocker arm .
This rotates about the  रॉकर शाफ्ट ,  and transfers the motion via a tappet to the poppet valve .
In this case this opens  the सेवन वाल्व to the  cylinder head .
The effective leverage of the arm ( and thus the force it can exert on the valve stem ) is determined by the rocker arm ratio , the ratio of the distance from the rocker arm 's center of rotation to the tip  विभाजित by the अलहदा इससे the बीच of रोटेशन to  the point acted on by the camshaft or pushrod .
Current automotive design favors rocker arm  ratios  of about 1.5:1 to 1.8:1 .
However , in the past smaller positive ratios ( the valve lift is  greater than  the cam lift ) and even negative ratios ( valve lift smaller than the cam lift ) have been used .
Many pre-WW2  इंजन उपयोग  1:1 ( neutral ) ratios .
For  car इंजन the  rocker arms are generally steel stampings , providing a reasonable balance of strength , weight and economical cost .
Because the rocker arms are , in part , reciprocating weight , excessive  द्रव्यमान विशेषकर at the लीवर ends  limits the engine 's ability to reach high operating speeds .
`` The Night the Lights Went Out in Georgia '' is a Southern Gothic song written by songwriter Bobby Russell and  performed in 1972 by  his then-wife Vicki Lawrence .
Reba  mcentire बाद covered  it in 1991 .
Recorded in  लेट अक्तूबर 1972 in united/western studios on सूर्यास्त in हॉलीवुड और released कम than दो सप्ताह बाद  in November 1972 , the song centers around the older brother of the narrator , falsely convicted of and executed for a murder , which the narrator herself has committed .
In postal mail , a return address is an explicit inclusion of  the पता of  the person sending the message .
It provides the recipient ( and sometimes authorized intermediaries ) with a means to determine how to respond  to the प्रेषक of the संदेश if needed  .
The return address need not include a  प्रेषक 's नाम , लकिन चाहिए  include address or P.O . box details in the same way as the delivery address should .
In some countries , the return address is  conventionally स्तिथ  in the upper left hand corner of the envelope , card , or label .
In the United Kingdom , the return address is usually placed on the reverse of the  लिफाफा  , near the top .
Businesses often use envelopes preprinted with a return  पता  .
अनेक individuals have चादरें of चिपकने लेबल्स preprinted साथ उनके घर पता to affix to उनके पत्राचार  .
धर्मार्थ  sometimes include such sheets in mailshots .
Rolls of Return Address Labels can be purchased from companies that sell personalized labels to provide individuals an easy way to peel and stick  वापसी पता  labels to their envelopes .
The return  पता  is not required on postal mail .
However , lack of a return address prevents the postal service from being able to return the  मद if it proves undeliverable ; ऐसे as  from damage , postage due , or invalid destination .
Such mail may  यूँ become मुर्दे  letter mail .
Should the return address be of a  अलग राज्य or देश  , the mail may be routed through that location for ease of return .
A nerve guidance conduit ( also referred to as an artificial nerve conduit or artificial nerve graft , as opposed to an autograft ) is an artificial means of guiding axonal regrowth to  सुकर  nerve regeneration and is one of several clinical treatments for nerve injuries .
When direct suturing of the  दो आउट of a severed तंत्रिका can नहीं be संपन्नता बगैर  tension , the standard clinical treatment for peripheral nerve injuries is autologous nerve grafting .
Due to the limited availability of donor tissue and functional recovery in autologous nerve grafting , neural tissue engineering  शोध रै केन्द्रित on the विकास of bioartificial तंत्रिका  guidance conduits as an alternative treatment , especially for large defects .
Similar techniques are also  होने छान लिये तंत्रिका मरम्मत in the  spinal cord but nerve regeneration in the central nervous system poses a greater challenge because its axons do not regenerate appreciably in their native environment .
The creation of artificial conduits is also known as entubulation because the nerve ends and intervening gap are enclosed within a tube composed of  biological or सिंथेटिक  materials .
Whether the conduit is in the form of a biologic tube , synthetic tube or tissue-engineered conduit , it should facilitate neurotropic  और neurotrophic संचार between the proximal और distal  ends of the nerve gap , block external inhibitory factors , and provide a physical guidance for axonal regrowth .
The most  मौलिक उद्देश्य of a तंत्रिका मार्गदर्शन conduit is to combine शारीरिक , रासायनिक , और biological cues अंतर्गत शर्तें कि होगा फोस्टर ऊतक गठन .
Materials that have been used to make biologic tubes include blood vessels and skeletal muscles , while nonabsorbable and  bioabsorbable सिंथेटिक tubes  have been made from silicone and polyglycolide respectively .
Tissue-engineered nerve guidance conduits are a combination of many elements : scaffold structure , scaffold material , cellular therapies , neurotrophic  कारकों और biomimetic  materials .
The choice of which physical , chemical and biological cues to use is based on the properties of the nerve environment , which  is  critical in creating the most desirable environment for axon regeneration .
The factors that control material selection include biocompatibility , biodegradability , mechanical integrity , controllability during nerve growth ,  implantation  and sterilization .
Hardcore Pawn is an American reality television series produced by RDF USA ( later Zodiak USA ) and Richard Dominick Productions for truTV about the day-to-day operations of American Jewelry and Loan , a family-owned pawn shop located at 20450 Greenfield Road , between 8 Mile Road  और the जॉन  C. Lodge Freeway in Detroit , Michigan .
The series premiered on August 16 , 2010 , delivering two million viewers , setting a record as  trutv 's most-watched श्रेणी प्रीमियर  ever .
amoxicillin  BP
Amoxicillin ( INN ) , formerly amoxycillin ( BAN ) , and abbreviated amox , is a moderate-spectrum , bacteriolytic , β-lactam antibiotic used to  दावत बैक्टीरियल infections caused  by susceptible microorganisms .
It is usually the drug of choice within the class because it is better absorbed , following oral administration , than other β-lactam  एंटीबायोटिक  .
amoxicillin is एक  of the most common antibiotics prescribed for children .
the ड्रग  became available in 1972 .
Amoxicillin is susceptible to degradation by β-lactamase  -producing जीवाणु  , which are resistant to a broad spectrum of β-lactam antibiotics , such as penicillin .
For this reason , it is often combined with clavulanic acid , a  β-lactamase  inhibitor .
इस increases  effectiveness by reducing its susceptibility to β-lactamase resistance .
Lyndon Baines Johnson ( August 27 , 1908 – January  22 , 1973 ) , प्रायः referred to as lbj , थी the 36th अध्यक्ष  of the United States ( 1963–1969 ) , a position he assumed after his service as the 37th Vice President of the United States ( 1961–1963 ) .
He is one of only four people who served in all four elected federal offices of the United States : Representative , Senator , Vice  अध्यक्ष , और अध्यक्ष  .
Johnson , a Democrat from Texas , served as a United States Representative from 1937–1949 and as a Senator from 1949–1961  ,  including six years as United States Senate Majority Leader , two as Senate Minority Leader and two as Senate Majority Whip .
After campaigning unsuccessfully for the Democratic nomination in 1960 , Johnson was asked by John F.  कैनेडी to be उसके  running mate for the 1960 presidential election .
Johnson succeeded to the presidency following the assassination of John F. Kennedy on November 22 , 1963 , completed Kennedy 's term and was elected  अध्यक्ष in उसके अपना सही  , winning by a large margin over Barry Goldwater in the 1964 election .
Johnson was greatly supported by the Democratic Party and as President , he was responsible for designing the `` Great Society  `` विधान कि शामिल कानून कि upheld  civil rights , public broadcasting , Medicare , Medicaid , environmental protection , aid to education , and his `` War on Poverty . ''
Johnson was renowned for his domineering personality and the `` Johnson treatment , '' his coercion of  शक्तिशाली  politicians in order to advance legislation .
Meanwhile , Johnson escalated American involvement in the Vietnam War , from  16,000 अमरीकी  advisors/soldiers in 1963 to 550,000 combat troops in early 1968 , as American casualties soared and the peace process bogged down .
The involvement stimulated a large angry antiwar movement based especially on  विश्वविद्यालयों campuses in the  U.S. and abroad .
Summer riots broke out in most major cities after 1965 , and crime  दरों soared , as उसके प्रतिद्वंद्वियों  raised demands for `` law and order '' policies .
The Democratic Party split in multiple feuding factions , and after Johnson did poorly in the 1968 New Hampshire primary  , he ended उसके बोली लिये reelection .
Republican Richard Nixon was elected to  सफल  him .
Historians argue that  जॉनसन 's प्रेसिडेंसी  marked the peak of modern liberalism in the United States after the New Deal era .
Johnson is ranked favorably by some historians because of  उसके  domestic policies .
The Big Bang Theory cast at Comic Con 2009 , from  बाएँ :  Kunal Nayyar , Simon Helberg , Kaley Cuoco , Jim Parsons , and Johnny Galecki
The American sitcom The Big Bang Theory , created  और कार्यपालिका उत्पादित by चक  Lorre and Bill Prady , premiered on CBS on September 24 , 2007 .
the दिखाएँ centers on पाँच वर्ण : roommates शेल्डन कूपर और लियोनार्ड hofstadter , दो caltech physicists ; पैनी , a वेट्रेस और aspiring अभिनेत्री जो जीवनदान आरपार the हॉल ; और लियोनार्ड और शेल्डन 's मित्रों और co-workers aerospace इंजीनियर हावर्ड wolowitz , और astrophysicist राजेश koothrappali  .
Over time , several supporting characters have been promoted to starring roles : Leslie Winkle ( season 1 recurring ; season 2 regular ; season 3 guest ) , a physicist colleague , and ,  at अलग टाइम्स , a प्रेमी of दोनो लियोनार्ड और हावर्ड ; bernadette rostenkowski-wolowitz ( ऋतु 3  recurring ; season 4-present regular ) , a microbiologist , Howard 's fiancée and subsequent wife , and former part-time waitress alongside Penny ; neuroscientist Amy Farrah Fowler ( season 3 guest ; season 4 recurring ; season 4-present regular ) , who joins the group after being matched to Sheldon on a dating website ; and comic book store-owner , Stuart Bloom ( seasons 2–5 recurring ; season 6-present regular ) , who replaces Howard as Raj 's best friend when Howard is in space .
The  दिखाएँ  also features numerous supporting characters , each of whom plays a prominent role in a small group of episodes .
The American Civil War ( ACW  ) , भी ज्ञात as the युद्ध between the राज्य or बस the सिविल युद्ध (  see naming ) , was a civil war fought from 1861 to 1865 between the United States ( the `` Union '' or the `` North '' ) and several Southern slave states that declared their secession and formed the Confederate States of America ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ) .
The war had its origin in the issue of slavery , especially  the एक्सटेंशन of गुलामी into the पश्चिमी  territories .
विदेशी शक्तियां  did not intervene .
After four years of  खूनी कॉम्बैट कि बाएँ over 600,000 सैनिको मुर्दे और नष्ट much of the दक्षिण 's अवसंरचना , the confederacy collapsed , गुलामी  was abolished , and the difficult Reconstruction process of restoring national unity and guaranteeing rights to the freed slaves began .
In the 1860 presidential election , Republicans , led by Abraham Lincoln , opposed  expanding  slavery into United States ' territories .
Lincoln  जीती ,  but before his inauguration on March 4 , 1861 , seven cotton-based slave states formed the Confederacy .
Outgoing Democratic President James Buchanan and the   incoming Republicans rejected secession as illegal .
Lincoln 's inaugural address declared  उसके प्रशासन होता  not initiate civil war .
Eight  बाकी स्लेव  states continued to reject calls for secession .
Confederate forces seized  numerous संघीय दुर्गों भीतर  territory claimed by the Confederacy .
A Peace Conference failed to find  a सुलह  , and both sides prepared for war .
The Confederates assumed that European countries were so  निर्भर on `` किंग कपास `` कि वे होता intervene ;  none did and none recognized the new Confederate States of America .
Hostilities began   on April 12 , 1861 , when Confederate forces fired upon Fort Sumter , a key fort held by Union troops in South Carolina .
Lincoln called for each state  to provide सैनिकों to retake  the fort ; consequently , four more slave states joined the Confederacy , bringing their total to eleven .
The Union soon controlled the border states and established a  नवल नाकेबंदी कि अबोध the दक्षिणी  economy .
The Eastern Theater was  inconclusive in  1861–62 .
The autumn 1862 Confederate campaign into Maryland ( a Union  राज्य ) ended  with Confederate retreat at the Battle of Antietam , dissuading British intervention .
Lincoln issued the Emancipation  उदघोषणा  , which made ending slavery a war goal .
To the west , by summer 1862 the Union destroyed the Confederate river navy , then much of their western armies , and the Union at Vicksburg split the Confederacy in  two at  the Mississippi River .
In 1863 , Robert E. Lee 's Confederate incursion north ended at the Battle of  gettysburg  .
Western successes led to Ulysses S. Grant command of all   Union armies in 1864 .
In the Western Theater , William T.  शरमन drove ईस्ट  to capture Atlanta and marched to the sea , destroying Confederate infrastructure along the way .
The Union marshaled the resources and manpower to attack the Confederacy  इससे  all directions , and could afford to fight battles of attrition through the Overland Campaign towards Richmond , the Confederate capital .
The defending Confederate army failed , leading to Lee 's  आत्मसमर्पण to ग्रान्ट at appomattox अदालत  House on April 9 , 1865 .
The American Civil War was one of  the earliest सच्चा  industrial wars .
Railroads , the telegraph , steamships   , and mass-produced weapons were employed extensively .
The mobilization of civilian factories , mines , shipyards , banks , transportation and food  आपूर्तियाँ सब  foreshadowed World War I .
It remains the deadliest war in American history , resulting in the deaths of an estimated  750,000 सैनिको और  an undetermined number of civilian casualties .
Historian John  huddleston estimates the मौत टोल at टेन प्रतिशत of सब उत्तरी  males 20–45 years old , and 30 percent of all Southern white males aged 18–40 .
Human  एवोल्यूशन refers to  the evolutionary process leading up to the appearance of modern humans .
While it began with the last common ancestor of all life , the topic usually covers only the evolutionary history of primates , in  particular the genus होमो , और the emergence of होमो sapiens  as a distinct species of hominids ( or `` great apes '' ) .
The study of human  एवोल्यूशन involves अनेक वैज्ञानिक disciplines , सहित शारीरिक मानवशास्त्र  , primatology , archaeology , linguistics , evolutionary psychology , embryology and genetics .
according to जेनेटिक  studies , primates diverged from other mammals about in the Late Cretaceous period , and the earliest fossils appear in the Paleocene , around .
The family Hominidae diverged from the Hylobatidae ( Gibbon ) family 15-20 million years ago , and around , the Ponginae (  orangutans ) , diverged इससे the मानवनुमा  family .
Bipedalism is the basic adaption of the Hominin line , and the earliest bipedal Hominin is considered to be either Sahelanthropus or  orrorin , साथ ardipithecus , a पूरा  bipedal , coming somewhat later .
The gorilla and chimpanzee diverged around the same time , about 4-6 million years ago , and either Sahelanthropus or Orrorin may be our last shared  पूर्वज साथ उन्हें  .
The early bipedals eventually evolved into the  australopithecines  and later the genus Homo .
The earliest documented members of the genus Homo are Homo habilis which evolved  around ; the earliest प्रजाति  for which there is positive evidence of use of stone tools .
The brains of these early hominins were about the  वही आकार as कि of  a chimpanzee .
During the next million years a process of encephalization  began , और साथ the आगमन of होमो इरेक्टस in the  fossil record , cranial capacity had doubled to 850 cm3 .
Homo erectus and Homo ergaster were the first of the hominina to leave Africa , and these species spread through Africa , Asia , and Europe   between .
It is believed  कि ये प्रजाति यहूद  the first to use fire and complex tools .
According to the Recent African Ancestry theory , modern humans evolved in Africa possibly from Homo heidelbergensis , Homo rhodesiensis or  होमो antecessor और migrated आउट  of the continent some 50,000 to 100,000 years ago , replacing local populations of Homo erectus , Homo denisova , Homo floresiensis and Homo neanderthalensis .
Archaic Homo sapiens , the  forerunner of anatomically  modern humans , evolved between 400,000 and 250,000 years ago .
Recent DNA  प्रमाण suggests कि अनेक haplotypes of neanderthal उत्पत्ति हैं उपस्थित among सब non-african populations , और neanderthals और अन्य hominids  , such as Denisova hominin may have contributed up to 6 % of their genome to present-day humans. < ref name= '' 10.1126/science.1209202 '' > Anatomically modern humans evolved from archaic Homo sapiens in the Middle Paleolithic , about 200,000 years ago .
The transition to behavioral modernity with the development of symbolic  संस्कृति , भाषा , और specialized  lithic technology happened around 50,000 years ago according to many anthropologists although some suggest a gradual change in behavior over a longer time span .
Lisa Cuddy , M.D . , is a fictional character on the Fox network medical drama  House  .
She is  portrayed by लिसा  Edelstein .
Cuddy was the Dean of Medicine and hospital administrator of the fictional Princeton-Plainsboro  शिक्षण हॉस्पिटल in नई जर्सी  .
She also becomes House 's love interest through the years to start a   relationship with him in season seven .
Cuddy quit her job after  the कार्यक्रम  of season seven 's finale `` Moving On `` .
Track  और फ़ील्ड is  a sport comprising various competitive athletic contests based on running , jumping , and throwing .
the नाम of the  sport derives from the competition venue : a stadium with an oval running track around a grass field .
The throwing and jumping events generally take place in the  सेंट्रल enclosed क्षेत्रफल  .
Track and field falls under the umbrella sport of athletics , which also  शामिल सड़क कार्यशील , क्रॉस  country running , and race walking .
The two most prestigious international track and field competitions are held under the banner of athletics : the athletics competition at the  ओलम्पिक खेल और the आइएएएफ  World Championships in Athletics .
The International Association of Athletics Federations is  the अंतरराष्ट्रीय शासी  body for track and field .
Track and field events are generally individual sports with athletes challenging each other to decide a  सिंगल विक्टर  .
The racing events are won by the athlete with the fastest   time , while the jumping and throwing events are won by the athlete who has achieved the greatest distance or height in the contest .
The  कार्यशील कार्यक्रम  are categorised as sprints , middle and long-distance events , relays , and hurdling .
Regular jumping events include long jump , triple jump ,  ऊँची जम्प और ध्रुव वॉल्ट , जबकि  the most common throwing events are shot put , javelin , discus and hammer .
There are also `` combined events '' , such as  heptathlon और decathlon , in जिससे  athletes compete in a number of the above events .
Records are kept of the best performances in specific events ,  at संसार और नेशनल स्तर  , right down to a personal level .
However , if athletes are deemed to have  violated  the event 's rules or regulations , they are disqualified from the competition and their marks are erased .
In North America , the term track and field may be used to refer to athletics in general , rather than  specifically track और फ़ील्ड  events .
The Gulf War ( 2 August 1990 – 28 February 1991 ) , codenamed Operation Desert Storm ( 17 January 1991 – 28 February 1991  ) थी a युद्ध waged by a u.n.-authorized गठबन्धन  force from 34 nations led by the United States , against Iraq in response to Iraq 's invasion and annexation of Kuwait .
The war is also known under other names , such as the Persian Gulf War , First Gulf War , Gulf War I , or the First Iraq War , before the term `` Iraq War '' became  पहचाना बजाय साथ the 2003 इराकी युद्ध ( भी referred  to in the U.S. as `` Operation Iraqi Freedom '' ) .
Kuwait 's  आक्रमण by इराकी सैनिकों कि  began 2 August 1990 was met with international condemnation , and brought immediate economic sanctions against Iraq by members of the U.N. Security Council .
U.S. President George  H. W. बुश तैनात u.S.  forces into Saudi Arabia , and urged other countries to send their own forces to the scene .
An  सरणी of  nations joined the Coalition .
The great majority of the Coalition 's  सैन्य शक्तियां यहूद इससे the u.S. , साथ  Saudi Arabia , the United Kingdom and Egypt as leading contributors , in that order .
सऊदी  Arabia paid around US $ 36 billion of the US $ 60 billion cost .
the युद्ध थी चिह्नित  by the beginning of live news on the front lines of the fight , with the primacy of the U.S. network CNN .
The war  रै भी अर्जित the उपनाम  Video Game War after the daily broadcast images on board the U.S. bombers during Operation Desert Storm .
The  आरंभिक विरोध  to expel Iraqi troops from Kuwait began with an aerial bombardment on 17 January 1991 .
This was followed  by a मैदान उत्पीड़न  on 24 February .
This was a decisive victory for the Coalition forces , who  liberated कुवैत  and advanced into Iraqi territory .
The Coalition ceased their advance , and declared a cease-fire 100 hours after  the मैदान अभियान  started .
Aerial and ground combat was confined to Iraq ,  कुवैत , और  areas on Saudi Arabia 's border .
Iraq launched Scud missiles against Coalition  सैन्य  targets in Saudi Arabia and against Israel .
The   nickel , in American usage , is a five- cent coin issued by the United States Mint .
Composed of 75 % copper and 25 % nickel , the piece has been struck  चूंकि 1866  .
The silver  हाफ dime , बराबर to पाँच  cents , had been issued since the 1790s .
The American Civil War caused economic hardship ,  ड्राइविंग सुनहरा और चांदी इससे परिसंचरण ; in जवाब  , in place of low-value coins , the government at first issued paper currency .
In 1865 , Congress abolished the five-cent fractional currency note after Spencer M.  क्लार्क , सिर of the करेंसी  Bureau ( today the Bureau of Engraving and Printing ) , placed his own portrait on the denomination .
After successful introduction of two-cent and three-cent pieces , without precious  मेटल , कॉंग्रेस  also authorized a five-cent piece consisting of base metal ; the Mint began striking this version in 1866 .
The initial design of the Shield nickel was struck until  1883 , तब replaced  by the Liberty Head nickel .
The Buffalo nickel was introduced in  1913 as  part of a drive to increase the beauty of American coinage ; in 1938 , the Jefferson nickel followed .
In 2004 and 2005 ,  खास डिजाइन in सम्मान  of the bicentennial of the Lewis and Clark Expedition were issued .
In 2006 , the Mint reverted to using Jefferson nickel designer Felix  schlag 's असली रिवर्स  ( or `` tails '' side ) , although a new obverse , by Jamie Franki , was substituted .
As of  2013 , it लागत अधिक  than eleven cents to produce a nickel ; the Mint is exploring the possibility of reducing cost by using less expensive metals .
A  पोस्टर  with flowers or clusters of flowers produced by twelve species of flowering plants from different families
A flower , sometimes known as a bloom or blossom , is the reproductive structure found in flowering plants ( plants of the division   Magnoliophyta , also called angiosperms ) .
The biological function of a flower is to effect reproduction , usually by  providing a यांत्रिकी लिये the  union of sperm with eggs .
Flowers may facilitate  outcrossing  ( fusion of sperm and eggs from different individuals in a population ) or allow selfing ( fusion of sperm and egg from the same flower ) .
Some flowers produce diaspores without  fertilization  ( parthenocarpy ) .
Flowers contain sporangia and are the site  जहाँ gametophytes  develop .
Flowers give rise to  फल  and seeds .
Many flowers have evolved to be attractive to animals , so as to cause them to be vectors for the  ट्रांसफ़र  of pollen .
In addition to facilitating the   reproduction of flowering plants , flowers have long been admired and used by humans to beautify their environment , and also as objects of romance , ritual , religion , medicine and as a source of food .
The McDonnell Douglas ( now Boeing ) F-15 Eagle is a twin-engine , all-weather tactical fighter designed by McDonnell Douglas to  लाभ और maintain एयर बड़प्पन  in aerial combat .
It is considered among the most successful modern fighters , with over 100  aerial  combat victories with no losses in dogfights .
Following reviews of proposals , the United States Air Force selected McDonnell Douglas ' design in 1967 to meet the service 's need  लिये a समर्पित एयर  superiority fighter .
The  त्रिभुज पहला  flew in July 1972 , and entered service in 1976 .
Since the 1970s ,  the त्रिभुज रै महरूम  exported to Israel , Japan , Saudi Arabia , and other nations .
The F-15 was originally   envisioned as a pure air superiority aircraft .
Its design included a secondary ground-attack   capability that was largely unused .
The design proved flexible enough that an all-weather strike derivative , the F-15E Strike Eagle , was later developed , and  डाला सेवा in 1989  .
The  f-15 त्रिभुज  is expected to be in service with the U.S. Air Force past 2025 .
Mimio is a brand name of a line of  प्रौद्योगिकी उत्पाद  aimed at the education market .
The  प्राथमिक उत्पाद हैं केन्द्रित  around computer whiteboard interactive teaching devices .
MimioCapture devices also allow users to capture all of the ink strokes that are written on the  whiteboard  .
When used in conjunction with a video projector it turns the ordinary  whiteboard सतह into a fully  interactive whiteboard .
The product   line was originally designed by Virtual Ink .
On October 4 , 2006 Newell Rubbermaid acquired the Mimio interactive  whiteboard ( iwb  ) product line .
rahab  of Jericho
Rahab , ( ; ; ) was , according to the Book of  जोशुआ , a स्त्री जो जिया in जेरिको in the promised  Land and assisted the Israelites in capturing the city .
Nearly all English translations of   Joshua describe her as a harlot or prostitute .
The Organization of American  राज्य ( स्पेनी : organización  de los Estados Americanos , Portuguese : Organização dos Estados Americanos , French : Organisation des États américains ) , or the OAS , is a regional international organization .
The OAS was founded on 30 April 1948 , and has its  मुख्यालय in वॉशिंगटन , d.C.  , United States .
Its members are the 35  स्वतंत्र राज्य of  the Americas .
Since 26 May 2005 , the  सचिव सामान्य  of OAS has been José Miguel Insulza .
क्रिस्टोफर कोलंबस ( इतालवी : cristoforo कोलोन ; स्पेनी : cristóbal colón ; पुर्तगाली : cristóvão कोलोन ; पहले 31 अक्तूबर 145120 may 1506 ) थी an इतालवी एक्सप्लोरर , नाविक , और colonizer , born in the गणतंत्र of जेनोआ , in कया is आज northwestern इटली .
Under the auspices of the Catholic Monarchs of Spain , he completed four voyages across the Atlantic Ocean that led to general  यूरोपीय जागरूकता of the  American continents .
Those voyages , and his efforts to establish  स्थाई settlements  on the island of Hispaniola , initiated the Spanish colonization of the New World .
In the context of emerging western imperialism and economic competition between European kingdoms seeking wealth through the establishment of trade routes and colonies , Columbus 's speculative proposal , to reach the East  इंडीज by sailing westward , आखिरकार प्राप्त  the support of the Spanish crown , which saw in it a promise , however remote , of gaining the upper hand over rival powers in the contest for the lucrative spice trade with Asia .
During his first voyage in 1492 , instead of reaching Japan as he had intended , Columbus landed in the  बहामा  archipelago , at a locale he named San Salvador .
Over the course of three  अधिक voyages , कोलंबस visited  the Greater and Lesser Antilles , as well as the Caribbean coast of Venezuela and Central America , claiming them for the Spanish Empire .
Though Columbus was not the first European explorer to reach the Americas  ( having महरूम preceded by the नॉर्स expedition led by leif ericson in the 11th सदी  ) , Columbus 's voyages led to the first lasting European contact with the Americas , inaugurating a period of European exploration , conquest , and colonization that lasted for several centuries .
They had , therefore , an enormous impact  in the  historical development of the modern Western world .
कोलंबस खुद देखी उसके  accomplishments primarily in the light of the spreading of the Christian religion .
Never admitting that he had reached a continent  previously अनजान to europeans , बल्कि than  the East Indies he had set out for , Columbus called the inhabitants of the lands he visited indios ( Spanish for `` Indians `` ) .
Columbus 's strained relationship with the Spanish crown and its appointed colonial administrators in America led to his arrest and dismissal as governor of  the  settlements on the island of Hispaniola in 1500 , and later to protracted litigation over the benefits which Columbus and his heirs claimed were owed to them by the crown .
Bred in Germany , the Boxer is a breed  of stocky  , medium-sized , short-haired dogs .
The coat is smooth and tight-fitting ; colors are fawn or brindled , with or without white markings , which  may कवर the  entire body .
Boxers are brachycephalic ( they have broad ,  छोटी skulls ) , और  have a square muzzle , mandibular prognathism ( an underbite ) , very strong jaws , and a powerful bite ideal for hanging on to large prey .
The Boxer was bred from the   Old English Bulldog and the now extinct Bullenbeisser , and is part of the Molosser group .
Boxers were first exhibited in a dog  दिखाएँ लिये  St. Bernards in Munich in 1895 , the first Boxer club being founded the next year .
Based on 2012 American Kennel Club statistics , Boxers held  स्थिर  as the seventh most popular breed of dog in the United States for the third consecutive year .
Serial ATA ( SATA ) is a computer bus interface that connects host bus adapters to mass  भंडार डिवाइस  such as hard disk drives and optical drives .
Serial ATA replaces the older AT Attachment standard ( ATA ; later referred to as Parallel ATA or PATA ) , offering several advantages over the older interface : reduced cable size and cost ( seven conductors instead of 40 ) , native hot swapping , faster data transfer  through higher signalling  rates , and more efficient transfer through an ( optional ) I/O queuing protocol .
SATA host  adapters  and devices communicate via a high-speed serial cable over two pairs of conductors .
In contrast , parallel ATA ( the redesignation for the legacy ATA specifications ) used a 16-bit wide data bus with many additional support and  कंट्रोल सिग्नल , सब ऑपरेटिंग at much  lower frequency .
To ensure backward compatibility with legacy ATA software and applications , SATA uses the same basic  ATA and  ATAPI command-set as legacy ATA devices .
sata रै replaced समानांतर  ATA in consumer desktop and laptop computers , and has largely replaced PATA in new embedded applications .
SATA 's market share in the desktop PC  मार्केट थी 99 %  in 2008 .
PATA remains widely used in industrial and embedded applications that use  compactflash भंडार  , even though the new CFast standard is based on SATA .
Serial ATA industry compatibility specifications originate from The Serial ATA  अंतरराष्ट्रीय संगठन ( उर्फ  .
SATA-IO ,  serialata.org  ) .
The SATA-IO group collaboratively creates , reviews , ratifies , and publishes the interoperability  विशेषताएँ , the परीक्षण  cases , and plug-fests .
As with many other industry compatibility standards , the SATA content ownership is transferred to  अन्य उद्योग लाशें : primarily the incits t13 उपसमिति  ATA , the INCITS T10 subcommittee ( SCSI ) ; a subgroup of T10 responsible for Serial Attached SCSI ( SAS ) .
the पूरा  specification from SATA-IO .
The remainder of this article will try to use the terminology and  विशेषताएँ  of SATA-IO .
The history of the  अंतरजाल began साथ  the development of electronic computers in the 1950s .
The public was first introduced to the concepts that would lead to the Internet when a message was sent over the ARPANet from computer science Professor Leonard Kleinrock 's laboratory at University of California , Los Angeles ( UCLA ) , after the  दूसरी टुकड़ा of संजाल उपकरण थी संस्थापित at स्टैनफोर्ड  Research Institute ( SRI ) .
Packet switched networks such as ARPANET , Mark I at NPL in the UK , CYCLADES ,  मेरिट संजाल , tymnet , और telenet  , were developed in the late 1960s and early 1970s using a variety of protocols .
The ARPANET in particular led to the development of protocols for internetworking , in which multiple separate  संजाल could  be joined together into a network of networks .
In 1982 , the Internet protocol suite ( TCP/IP ) was standardized  , और  consequently , the concept of a world-wide network of interconnected TCP/IP networks , called the Internet , was introduced .
Access to the ARPANET was expanded in 1981 when the National Science Foundation ( NSF ) developed the Computer Science Network  ( csnet ) और again in 1986 जब nsfnet  provided access to supercomputer sites in the United States from research and education organizations .
Commercial Internet service providers ( ISPs ) began to emerge in the late 1980s  और जल्दी 1990s  .
The  arpanet  was decommissioned in 1990 .
The Internet was commercialized  in 1995 when NSFNET  was decommissioned , removing the last restrictions on the use of the Internet to carry commercial traffic .
Since the mid-1990s , the Internet has had a revolutionary impact on culture and commerce , including the rise of near-instant communication by electronic mail , instant messaging , Voice over Internet Protocol ( VoIP ) `` phone calls '' , two-way interactive video calls , and the World Wide Web with its discussion forums , blogs , social  नेटवर्किंग , और ऑनलाइन खरीदारी साइट  .
the शोध  and education community continues to develop and use advanced networks such as NSF 's very high speed Backbone Network Service ( vBNS ) , Internet2 , and National LambdaRail .
Increasing amounts of data are transmitted at higher and  उच्चतर speeds over  fiber optic networks operating at 1-Gbit/s , 10-Gbit/s , or more .
The Internet 's takeover over the global communication landscape was almost instant in historical terms : it only communicated  1 % of the सूचना बहती  through two-way telecommunications networks in the year 1993 , already 51 % by 2000 , and more than 97 % of the telecommunicated information by 2007 .
Today the  अंतरजाल continues  to grow , driven by ever greater amounts of online information , commerce , entertainment , and social networking .
The Gift is the second album by Scottish singer Susan Boyle , which was  released on 8 नवम्बर  2010 .
Boyle  hinted  that the album has a 1960s feel `` because that was [ her ] era '' .
on 30 November 2011 , the album received a nomination in 54th Grammy  पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन परंपरागत  Pop Vocal Album .
`` This Is Just To Say '' ( 1934 ) is a famous imagist poem by William  कार्लोस विलियम्स  .
Professor Albus Percival Wulfric  ब्रायन डम्बल्डोर  is a major character and protagonist of J. K. Rowling 's Harry Potter series .
For  सबसे  of the series , he is the headmaster of the wizarding school Hogwarts .
As part of his backstory , it is revealed that he is the founder and leader of the Order of the Phoenix ,  an संगठन समर्पित to  fighting the main antagonist of the series , Lord Voldemort .
Dumbledore is portrayed by Richard Harris in the film adaptions of Harry Potter and the Philosopher 's Stone and Harry Potter and the Chamber  of  Secrets .
After Harris ' death , Michael Gambon portrayed  डम्बल्डोर  for all of the remaining films .
Rowling stated she chose the name Dumbledore , which is an Early  आधुनिक अंग्रेज़ी शब्द लिये `` bumblebee `` , क्युकी of डम्बल्डोर  's love of music : she imagined him walking around `` humming to himself a lot '' .
Calcitonin (  भी ज्ञात  as thyrocalcitonin ) is a 32-amino acid linear polypeptide hormone that is produced in humans primarily by the parafollicular cells ( also known as C-cells ) of the thyroid , and in many other animals in the ultimobranchial body .
It acts to reduce blood calcium ( Ca2+ ) ,  opposing the प्रभाव of parathyroid  hormone ( PTH ) .
Calcitonin  रै महरूम मिला  in fish , reptiles , birds , and mammals .
Its importance in humans has not been as well established as its importance in other animals , as its  फलन is प्रायः नहीं significant in the विनियमन  of normal calcium homeostasis .
It  belongs  to calcitonin-like protein family .
A mousepad  साथ  a padded wrist rest .
A  mousepad ( us ) or चूहा  mat ( UK ) is a surface for placing and moving a computer mouse .
A mousepad enhances the usability of the mouse compared to using a mouse directly on a table by providing  a सतह to allow the ट्रैकिंग  LED or ball ( in former models ) to measure movement accurately and without jitter .
Some mousepads increase ergonomics by providing a  padded  wrist rest .
The stadium seen  इससे ऊपर in  1980
दिसम्बर  29 , 2002 implosion
the  Riverfront Stadium site in June , 2006 .
This photo was  लिया इससे  the western concourse of Great American Ball Park .
A small portion of the Riverfront Stadium site is now occupied by the Reds ' Hall of Fame and Museum and Main Street , which was extended  जब the नई पार्क थी  built .
The Cincinnati Bengals '  पॉल भूरा स्टेडियम  is in the distance .
Riverfront Stadium ( 1970–1995 ) , later known as Cinergy Field ( 1996–2002 ) , was the home of the  सिनसिनाटी लाल नेशनल लीग बेसबॉल  team and the Cincinnati Bengals National Football League team .
Located on the Ohio River in downtown Cincinnati , the  स्टेडियम थी  best known as the home of `` The Big Red Machine `` , as the Reds were often called in the 1970s .
निर्माण  began on February 1 , 1968 , and was completed at a cost of less than $ 50 million .
On June 30 , 1970 , the Reds hosted the Atlanta Braves in their grand opening , with Hank Aaron hitting the first ever home  चलाएं  at Riverfront .
Two weeks later on July  14 ,  1970 , Riverfront hosted the 1970 Major League Baseball All-Star Game .
This game is best remembered for the often-replayed collision at home  plate  between Reds star Pete Rose and catcher Ray Fosse of the Cleveland Indians .
In September 1996 , Riverfront Stadium was renamed `` Cinergy Field '' in a sponsorship deal   with Greater Cincinnati 's energy company , Cinergy Corporation .
In 2001 , to make room for Great American Ball Park , the seating capacity at  cinergy फ़ील्ड थी  reduced to 39,000 .
There was a huge wall in Center Field  दृश्य  after the renovations , to serve as the batter 's eye .
The stadium was demolished   by implosion on December 29 , 2002 .
Nexen Tire is a tire  निर्माता  , headquartered in Yangsan , South Gyeongsang Province , and Seoul , both in South Korea .
Its major  घरेलू  competitors are Hankook Tire and Kumho Tires .
The company  's नाम  is reflected in the company slogan , `` Next Century Tire . ''
The silent majority is an unspecified large  बहुमत of  people in a country or group who do not express their opinions publicly .
The term was popularized ( though not first used ) by U.S. President Richard Nixon in a November 3 , 1969 ,  वाक in जिससे he कहा , `` और  so tonight—to you , the great silent majority of my fellow Americans—I ask for your support . ''
In this usage it  referred to  those Americans who did not join in the large demonstrations against the Vietnam War at the time , who did not join in the counterculture , and who did not participate in public discourse .
Nixon  साथ साथ अनेक अन्य  saw this group of Middle Americans as being overshadowed in the media by the more vocal minority .
The phrase was used in the 19th century as a euphemism referring to all the people who have died , and others have used it before and after Nixon to refer  to समूह of मतदाता in विभिन्न राष्ट्र  of the world .
Sam , a rhesus monkey ,  उड़ाया to an ऊँचाई  of 88 km in 1959 .
(  नासा  )
Before humans went into space , several animals were launched into space , including numerous monkeys , so that scientists  could investigate the biological  effects of space travel .
The  संयुक्त राज्य शुभारम्भ फ़्लाइट  containing primate cargo primarily between 1948-1961 with one flight in 1969 and one in 1985 .
France  शुभारम्भ  two monkey-carrying flights in 1967 .
The Soviet Union and Russia launched monkeys  between  1983 and 1996 .
Most monkeys were  anesthetized पहले  lift-off .
Overall thirty-two monkeys flew in the space program ; none flew more  than एकबार .
Numerous back-up monkeys also went through  the कार्यक्रम  but never flew .
Monkeys from several species were used , including rhesus monkeys , cynomolgus monkeys , squirrel monkeys  , और pig-tailed  macaques .
Some chimpanzees ( which are apes rather than monkeys ) were also   used .
RAID ( redundant array of independent disks , originally redundant array of inexpensive disks ) is a storage technology that combines multiple disk drive  components  into a logical unit .
Data is distributed across the drives in one of several ways called `` RAID levels '' ,  depending on the स्तर of  redundancy and performance required .
The term ``  रेड '' थी पहला पारिभाषित  by David Patterson , Garth A. Gibson , and Randy Katz at the University of California , Berkeley in 1987 .
विपणक representing उद्योग रेड निर्माताओं बाद attempted to reinvent the पद to describe a अनावश्यक सरणी of स्वतंत्र डिस्क as a अर्थात् of disassociating a low-cost अपेक्षा इससे रेड  technology .
RAID is now used as an umbrella term for computer data storage schemes that can divide and replicate data among multiple physical drives : RAID is an example of storage  आभासीकरण और the सरणी can be पहुँचा by  the operating system as one single drive .
The different schemes or  architectures हैं नामित  by the word RAID followed by a number ( e.g . RAID 0 , RAID 1 ) .
Each scheme provides a  अलग संतुलन  between the key goals : reliability and availability , performance and capacity .
RAID levels greater than RAID 0 provide protection against unrecoverable ( sector )  पढ़ा त्रुटियाँ , as खूब as  whole disk failure .
A lymphocyte is a type of white blood cell in the vertebrate immune  प्रणाली  .
Under  the सूक्ष्मदर्शी , lymphocytes  can be divided into large lymphocytes and small lymphocytes .
Large granular  lymphocytes शामिल  natural killer cells ( NK cells ) .
Small lymphocytes consist of T cells and  b कोशिकाएं  .
The Big  lebowski is a 1998 अंधेरा  comedy film written and directed by Joel and Ethan Coen .
Jeff Bridges stars as  जेफ़ lebowski ,  an unemployed Los Angeles slacker and avid bowler , nicknamed `` The Dude . ''
After a case of  mistaken पहचान , the  Dude is introduced to a millionaire also named Jeffrey Lebowski .
When the millionaire Lebowski 's trophy wife is later kidnapped , he commissions The Dude to deliver the ransom to secure  her  release .
The plan goes awry when The Dude 's friend Walter Sobchak ( John Goodman ) schemes to keep the   full ransom .
Steve Buscemi , Philip Seymour  हॉफमन , दाउद huddleston  , Julianne Moore , Tara Reid , and John Turturro also star in the film , which is narrated by a cowboy known only as `` The Stranger '' , played by Sam Elliott .
the  film is loosely inspired by the work of Raymond Chandler .
Joel Coen stated : `` We wanted to do a Chandler kind of story – how it moves episodically , and deals with the characters trying to unravel a mystery , as well as having a hopelessly complex plot   that 's ultimately unimportant . ''
The  असली स्कोर थी रचित by  Carter Burwell , a longtime collaborator of the Coen Brothers .
The Big Lebowski was a disappointment at the U.S. box office and received mixed reviews  at the समय  of its release .
Reviews have trended towards the  धनात्मक over समय , और the फिल्मी रै become a cult पसंदीदा  , noted for its idiosyncratic characters , dream sequences , unconventional dialogue , and eclectic soundtrack .
Severus Snape is a fictional  अक्षर in the हैरी कुम्हार किताब  series written by J.K. Rowling .
In the first novel of the series , he is  शत्रु toward हैरी और is निर्मित up to  be the primary antagonist until the final chapters .
As the series  progresses  , Snape 's character becomes more layered and complex .
Rowling does not fully reveal the details of his true  loyalties जबतक the  end of the final book , Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows .
Over the course of the series ,  snape 's portrayal evolves  from that of a malicious and partisan teacher to that of a pivotal character of considerable complexity and moral ambiguity .
snape primarily  teaches Potions at Hogwarts , though in the sixth novel he teaches Defence Against the Dark Arts , a position which he was known to have desired throughout the series .
He ultimately becomes Headmaster of  हॉग्वार्ट्स in the  final novel .
Rowling has described him  as `` a तोहफा of  a character '' .
Grits refers to a ground-corn food of Native American  उत्पत्ति , कि is  common in the Southern United States and mainly eaten at breakfast .
Modern grits are  commonly  made of alkali-treated corn known as hominy .
Grits are similar to other thick maize-based porridges from around the world such  as polenta  or the thinner farina .
`` Instant grits '' have been  processed to गति कुकिंग  .
The word `` grits ''  गर्भाशयी इससे the बूढ़ा  English word `` grytt , '' meaning coarse meal .
This word originally  referred to  wheat and other porridges now known as groats in parts of the U.K..
Maize , unknown in Europe in the Middle Ages , is a food derived from corn ( a New World  संयंत्र ) और `` मकई '' था महरूम प्रयुक्त to describe  wheat products in many European regions .
`` Grits '' may be either singular or plural ; historically , in the American South the word was invariably singular notwithstanding its plural form ( cf . such food names as `` spaghetti '' or `` linguine '' ,  likewise  plural in form , but singular in use ) .
Sometimes , grits are called sofkee or  sofkey (  from a native American Muskogee word ) .
In molecular biology ,  इंसान chorionic  gonadotropin ( hCG ) is a hormone produced by the fertilized egg after conception .
Later during pregnancy it is made by the developing placenta , and later by  the placental घटक  syncytiotrophoblast .
Some cancerous tumors produce this  हार्मोन ; इसलिए , elevated  levels measured when the patient is not pregnant can lead to a cancer diagnosis .
However , it is not known whether this  उत्पादन  is a contributing cause or an effect of tumorigenesis .
The pituitary analogue of hCG , known as luteinizing hormone (  lh ) , is उत्पादित  in the pituitary gland of males and females of all ages .
, the FDA has  निषिद्ध the बिक्री of `` होम्योपैथिक  '' and over the counter hCG diet products and declared them fraudulent and illegal .
the लास वेगास  Strip World of Coca-Cola museum in 2003
Coca-Cola is a carbonated soft drink sold in stores , restaurants , and vending machines in every country   except Cuba and North Korea .
It is produced by The Coca-Cola Company of Atlanta , Georgia , and is often referred to simply as Coke ( a registered trademark of  the  Coca-Cola Company in the United States since March 27 , 1944 ) .
Originally intended as a patent medicine when it was invented in the late 19th century by John Pemberton , Coca-Cola was bought out by businessman Asa Griggs Candler , whose marketing tactics led Coke to its  dominance  of the world soft-drink market throughout the 20th century .
The  कम्पनी produces concentrate  , which is then sold to licensed Coca-Cola bottlers throughout the world .
The bottlers , who hold territorially exclusive contracts  साथ the कम्पनी ,  produce finished product in cans and bottles from the concentrate in combination with filtered water and sweeteners .
The bottlers then  बेचें , वितरित  and merchandise Coca-Cola to retail stores and vending machines .
Such bottlers include Coca-Cola Enterprises , which is the largest single Coca-Cola bottler in North America  और पश्चिमी यूरोपीय  .
The Coca-Cola  कम्पनी भी बिकता  concentrate for soda fountains to major restaurants and food service distributors .
The Coca-Cola Company has , on occasion , introduced other cola  पेय अंतर्गत the  Coke brand name .
The most common of these is Diet Coke , with others including Caffeine-Free Coca-Cola , Diet Coke  caffeine-free  , Coca-Cola Cherry , Coca-Cola Zero , Coca-Cola Vanilla , and special versions with lemon , lime or coffee .
Based  on interbrand  's best global brand 2011 , Coca-Cola was the world 's most valuable brand .
An ombudsman is an official , usually appointed by the government or by parliament but with a significant degree of  स्वतंत्रता , जो is चार्ज साथ representing the रूचि of  the public by investigating and addressing complaints of maladministration or violation of rights .
In some countries   an Inspector General , Citizen Advocate or other official may have duties similar to those of a national ombudsman , and may also be appointed by the legislature .
Below the national level an ombudsman may be appointed by a state , local or municipal government , and unofficial ombudsmen may be appointed by , or even work for , a corporation such as a utility supplier or  a समाचारपत्र , लिये an ngo , or लिये  a professional regulatory body .
Whether appointed by the legislature , the executive , or an organization ( or , less frequently , elected by the constituency that he or she serves ) , the typical duties of an ombudsman are to investigate complaints and attempt  to resolve  them , usually through recommendations ( binding or not ) or mediation .
Ombudsmen sometimes also aim to identify systemic issues leading to poor service or  breaches of लोगों 's अधिकारों  .
At the national level , most ombudsmen have a wide mandate to deal with the  संपूर्ण पब्लिक सेक्टर , और sometimes भी  elements of the private sector ( for example , contracted service providers ) .
In some cases , there is a more restricted mandate , for example with  particular  sectors of society .
More recent developments  have शामिल  the creation of specialised Children 's Ombudsman and Information Commissioner agencies .
In some jurisdictions an ombudsman charged  साथ the हैंडलिंग  of concerns about national government is more formally referred to as the `` Parliamentary Commissioner '' ( e.g . the United Kingdom Parliamentary Commissioner for Administration , and the Western Australian state Ombudsman ) .
In many countries where the ombudsman 's remit extends beyond dealing with alleged  maladministration to promoting और  protecting human rights , the ombudsman is recognised as the national human rights institution .
The post of ombudsman had by the end of the 20th century been instituted by most governments  और by कुछ intergovernmental  organizations such as the European Union .
Making a complaint to an ombudsman  is प्रायः फ़्री  of charge .
Sign at Georgetown University  वॉशिंगटन  DC
Sign in  बांजुल ,  The Gambia
Autumn in New England , watercolor  , मौरिस  Prendergast .
Ca .  1910–1913
Fall foliage in the town of  स्टो  , Vermont
नई इंग्लैण्ड  is a region in the northeastern corner of the United States consisting of the six states of Maine , New Hampshire , Vermont , Massachusetts , Rhode Island , and Connecticut .
New England is bordered by New York state to the  दक्षिणपश्चिम , क्यूबेक to the उत्तरपश्चिम  , and New Brunswick and the Atlantic Ocean to the east .
in एक of the  earliest English settlements in North America , Pilgrims from England first settled in New England in 1620 , to form Plymouth Colony .
Ten years later , the Puritans settled north of Plymouth Colony in Boston , thus  forming मैसाचुसेट्स खाड़ी उपनिवेश  .
Over the next 130 years , New England fought in four French and Indian Wars , until the British defeated the  फ्रेंच और  their native allies in North America .
In the late 18th century , the New England Colonies initiated the resistance to the British Parliament 's  प्रयत्न to  impose new taxes without the consent of the colonists .
The Boston Tea Party was a protest to which Great Britain responded with a series of punitive laws stripping  मैसाचुसेट्स of self-government , जिससे  were termed the `` Intolerable Acts `` by the colonists .
The confrontation led to open warfare in 1775 , the expulsion of the British authorities from New England in spring 1776 , and  the घोषणा of स्वतंत्रता in जुलाई  1776 .
Some of the  पहला आंदोलनों  of American literature , philosophy , and education originated in New England .
The region played a prominent role in the movement to abolish  गुलामी , और थी the  first region of the United States to be transformed by the Industrial Revolution .
Today , New England  is a प्रमुख संसार  center of education , high technology , insurance , and medicine .
Boston is its cultural , financial , educational , medical and  परिवहन  center .
Each state is principally subdivided into small incorporated  municipalities ज्ञात as नई इंग्लैण्ड कस्बों  , which are often governed by town meeting .
The only  unincorporated territory in नई इंग्लैण्ड exists  in the sparse , northern regions of Vermont , New Hampshire , and Maine .
Since 1970 , voters have more often supported liberal candidates at the state and federal level than those of any other region in the United  राज्य  .
New England is the only one of the United States Census Bureau 's nine regional divisions whose name does not derive from its geography , and it is the only  multi-state  region with clear , consistent boundaries .
It  maintains a दमदार भाव of सांस्कृतिक पहचान नियत अलावा इससे the बाकी of the देश  , although the terms of this identity are often contested , combining Puritanism with liberalism , agrarian life with industry , and isolation with immigration .
आपात  !
is an American television series that  combines the  medical drama and action-adventure genres .
It was  उत्पादित by  Mark VII Limited and distributed by Universal Studios .
It debuted as a  midseason बदलना on जनवरी  15 , 1972 , on NBC , replacing the two short-lived series The Partners and The Good Life , and ran until September 3 , 1977 , with six additional two-hour television films during the following two years .
आपात  !
was created and produced by Jack Webb and Robert A. Cinader , both of whom  यहूद भी जिम्मेदार  for the police dramas Adam-12 and Dragnet .
The  पूर्वी समय मण्डल ( et ) encompasses 17 u.S. राज्य in  the eastern part of the contiguous United States , parts of Canada and three countries in South America .
Places that use Eastern Standard Time ( EST ) when  observing मानक  time ( autumn/winter ) are 5 hours behind Coordinated Universal Time ( ) .
Eastern Daylight Time ( EDT ) , when  observing daylight छायांकन  time ( spring/summer ) is 4 hours behind Coordinated Universal Time ( ) .
In the  उत्तरी भाग  of the time zone , during the second Sunday in March , at 2:00 a.m. EST , clocks are advanced to 3:00 a.m. EDT leaving a one hour `` gap . ''
During the first Sunday in November , at 2:00 a.m. EDT , clocks are moved back  to 1:00 a.m. est , यूँ `` duplicating  '' one hour .
Southern parts of the zone ( Panama and the Caribbean ) do not observe   daylight saving .
मानक  form of the periodic table .
The colors  represent अलग  categories of elements explained below .
The  आवधिक तालिका is a table प्रदर्शक  of the chemical elements , organized on the basis of their atomic numbers , electron configurations , and recurring chemical properties .
Elements are presented in order of increasing atomic number (  क्रमांक of protons )  .
The standard form of table comprises an 18 × 7 grid or  प्रमुख देह  of elements , positioned above a smaller double row of elements .
The table can also be deconstructed into  चार आयताकार ब्लॉक  : the s-block to the left , the p-block to the right , the d-block in the middle , and the f-block below that .
The rows of the table are called periods ; the columns of the s- , d- , and p-blocks are called groups , with some of  these  having names such as the halogens or the noble gases .
Since , by definition , a periodic table incorporates recurring trends , any such table can be used to derive relationships between the properties of the elements and predict the properties of new , yet to be  खोजा or synthesized , तत्व  .
As a result , a periodic table—whether in the standard form or some  अन्य variant—provides  a useful framework for analyzing chemical behavior , and such tables are widely used in chemistry and other sciences .
Although precursors exist , Dmitri Mendeleev is generally credited with the publication , in 1869 , of the first widely recognized  आवधिक तालिका .
He developed  उसके तालिका to  illustrate periodic trends in the properties of the then-known elements .
Mendeleev also predicted some properties of then-unknown elements that would be expected to fill gaps in  इस  table .
Most of his predictions were proved correct when the elements in  सवाल यहूद  subsequently discovered .
Mendeleev 's periodic table has since been expanded and  परिष्कृत साथ the डिस्कवरी or संश्लेषण of further नई  elements and the development of new theoretical models to explain chemical behavior .
All elements from  परमाणु संख्याएँ  1 ( hydrogen ) to 118 ( ununoctium ) have been discovered or synthesized .
The elements from 1 to 98 ( californium ) have been found to exist naturally , although some are found only in trace amounts and were initially  खोजा by संश्लेषण  in laboratories .
The elements after 98 have only been synthesized in laboratories  .
Production of  तत्व परे ununoctium  is being pursued , with the question of how the periodic table may need to be modified to accommodate any such additions being a matter of ongoing debate .
Numerous synthetic radionuclides of naturally occurring  तत्व have भी महरूम  produced in laboratories .
Minecraft is a sandbox indie game originally created by Swedish programmer Markus `` Notch '' Persson and later  विकसित और प्रकाशित  by Mojang .
It was publicly released for the PC on May 17 , 2009 , as a developmental alpha version and , after gradual updates , was published as a full release version  on नवम्बर 18 , 2011  .
A version for Android was released a month earlier  on अक्तूबर 7 , और an आईओएस  version was released on November 17 , 2011 .
On May 9 , 2012 , the game was released on Xbox 360 as an Xbox  सजीव आर्केड खेल  , co-developed by 4J Studios .
All versions of  minecraft प्राप्त  periodic updates .
The creative  and  building aspects of Minecraft allow players to build constructions out of textured cubes in a 3D procedurally generated world .
Other activities in the game include  खोजी  , gathering resources , crafting and combat .
Gameplay in its commercial release has two  प्रिंसिपल मोड्स : अस्तित्व , जिससे requires खिलाड़ी to acquire संसाधन और maintain  their health and hunger ; and creative , where players have an unlimited supply of resources , the ability to fly , and no health or hunger .
A  तीसरा gameplay विधि नामित हार्डकोर  is the same as survival , differing only in difficulty ; it is set to hardest setting and respawning is disabled , forcing players to delete their worlds upon death .
minecraft प्राप्त पाँच पुरस्कार इससे the 2011 खेल डेवलपर  Conference : it was awarded the Innovation Award , Best Downloadable Game Award , and the Best Debut Game Award from the Game Developers Choice Awards ; and the Audience Award , as well as the Seumas McNally Grand Prize , from the Independent Games Festival in 2011 .
In 2012 , Minecraft was awarded a Golden Joystick  Award in the  category Best Downloadable Game .
As of April 8 , 2013 , the game has sold over 10 million copies on PC and as of January 22 ,  2013 , over 20 लाख  copies across all platforms .
The Dark Knight is a 2008 British-American superhero film directed , produced , and  co-written by क्रिस्टोफर  Nolan .
Based on the DC Comics character Batman , the film is the second part of Nolan 's  बैटमैन फिल्मी श्रेणी  and a sequel to 2005 's Batman Begins .
Christian Bale reprises the lead role of Bruce Wayne/Batman , with a returning cast of Michael Caine as Alfred Pennyworth , Gary Oldman as James Gordon and Morgan  फ्रीमैन as  Lucius Fox .
the फिल्मी introduces the अक्षर of घनघोर डेंट ( आरोन eckhart ) , गोथम 's newly निर्वाचित ज़िला attorney और the consort of ब्रूस वेन 's बाल्यकाल dost रेचल dawes ( मैगी जिलएनहॉल ) , जो joins बैटमैन और the पुलिस in combating the नई उठती threat of a दण्ड मास्टरमाइंड कॉलिंग खुद `` the जोकर `` ( झाड़ लेजर  ) .
Nolan 's inspiration for the film was the Joker 's comic book  डेब्यू in 1940 , the 1988 ग्राफिक  novel , and the 1996 series , which retold Two-Face 's origin .
The nickname `` the Dark  नाईट '' थी पहला लागू to  Batman in Batman No . 1 ( 1940 ) , in a story written by Bill Finger .
The Dark Knight was filmed primarily in Chicago , as  खूब as in अनेक अन्य स्थितियाँ  in the United States , the United Kingdom , and Hong Kong .
Nolan used an IMAX camera to  फिल्मी कुछ  sequences , including the Joker 's first appearance in the film .
On January 22 , 2008 , some months after he had completed filming on The Dark Knight and six months before the film 's   release , Heath Ledger died from a toxic combination of prescription drugs , leading to intense attention from the press and movie-going public .
Warner Bros. had initially created a viral marketing campaign for The Dark Knight , developing promotional websites and trailers highlighting screen shots of Ledger as the Joker , but after Ledger 's death , the studio refocused its promotional  अभियान  .
The Dark Knight was released on July 16 , 2008 in Australia , on July 18 , 2008 in North America , and on July 24 , 2008 in the  संयुक्त किंगडम  .
Considered one  of the बेहतरीन films of the 2000s और एक of the बेहतरीन  superhero films ever made , the film received highly positive reviews and set numerous records during its theatrical run .
With over $ 1 billion in revenue worldwide , it  is the  14th-highest-grossing film of all time , unadjusted for inflation .
The film received eight Academy Award nominations ; it won the award for Best Sound Editing and Ledger was posthumously awarded Best  supporting कर्ता  .
The Dark Knight Rises , the  फाइनल भाग  of the trilogy , was released on July 20 , 2012 .
The timeline of radio lists within the history of radio , the technology and events that produced instruments that use radio waves  और क्रियाएँ  that people undertook .
Later , the history is dominated by programming and  सामग्री  , which is closer to general history .
The Sydney Opera House is a multi-venue performing arts  केन्द्र in नई दक्षिण वेल्स  , Australia .
It was conceived and largely  निर्मित by डैनिश वास्तु  Jørn Utzon , opening in 1973 after a long gestation that began with his competition-winning design in 1957 .
Joseph Cahill 's New South Wales Government gave  the  go-ahead for work to begin in 1958 .
The government 's bold decision to select Utzon 's design is often overshadowed   by the scandal that followed .
It is on Bennelong Point in Sydney Harbour ,  बंद to the सिडनी  Harbour Bridge .
It sits at  the northeastern टिप of the सिडनी  central business district ( the CBD ) , surrounded on three sides by the harbour ( Sydney Cove and Farm Cove ) and inland by the Royal Botanic Gardens .
Contrary to its name , it  घरों अनेक  performance venues .
It is among the busiest performing arts centres in the world ,  होस्टिंग over 1,500 प्रदर्शन  each year attended by some 1.2 million people .
It provides a venue for many  performing-arts कंपनियाँ , सहित  the four key resident companies Opera Australia , The Australian Ballet , the Sydney Theatre Company and the Sydney Symphony Orchestra , and presents a wide range of productions on its own account .
It is also one of the most popular visitor attractions in Australia , with more than seven  लाख लोगों  visiting each year , 300,000 of whom take a guided tour .
It is administered by the Sydney Opera House Trust ,  अंतर्गत the  New South Wales Ministry of the Arts .
On 28 June 2007 , it  थी बना  a UNESCO World Heritage Site .
It is one of the 20th century 's most distinctive  इमारतें और  one of the most famous performing arts centres in the world .
A  आलेख of देह द्रव्यमान अनुक्रमणिका as  a function of body mass and body height is shown above .
The dashed  लाइनों  represent subdivisions within a major class .
For instance the `` Underweight '' classification is further  विभाजित into `` कठोर '' , `` मॉडरेट  '' , and `` mild '' subclasses .
The body mass index ( BMI ) , or Quetelet index , is a measure for  इंसान देह आकार  based on an individual 's weight and height .
It was devised between 1830 and 1850 by the Belgian polymath Adolphe Quetelet during the course of developing ``  सोशल भौतिकी ''  .
Body mass index is defined as the  व्यक्तिगत  's body mass divided by the square of their height .
The formulae universally used in medicine  उपज a ईकाई of  measure of kg/m2 .
BMI can also be determined using a BMI chart , which displays BMI as a function of weight (  आड़ा अक्ष ) और ऊँचाई ( लंबवत अक्ष  ) using contour lines for different values of BMI or colors for different BMI categories .
† The factor for UK/US units is more  precisely 703.06957964  , but that level of precision is not meaningful for this calculation .
To work  इससे स्टोन और पाउंड पहला गुणा  the stone by 14 then add the pounds to give the whole mass in pounds ; to work from feet and inches first multiply the feet by 12 then add the inches to give the whole height in inches .
Thomas Paine ( January 29 , 1737 ( NS February 9 , 1737 ) – June 8 , 1809 ) was an English-American  राजनैतिक activist , लेखक  , political theorist and revolutionary .
As the author of two highly influential pamphlets at the start of  the अमरीकी क्रान्ति , he  inspired the Patriots in 1776 to declare independence from Britain .
उसके विचार reflected  Enlightenment era rhetoric of transnational human rights .
He has been called `` a corsetmaker by  व्यापार , a पत्रकार by  profession , and a propagandist by inclination . ''
Born in Thetford , England ,  in the  county of Norfolk , Paine emigrated to the British American colonies in 1774 with the help of Benjamin Franklin and he arrived in time to participate in the American Revolution .
His principal contributions were the powerful , widely read pamphlet Common Sense ( 1776 ) , the all-time best-selling American book that advocated colonial America 's independence from the Kingdom of Great Britain , and The American Crisis ( 1776–83  ) , a pro-revolutionary  pamphlet series .
Common Sense was so influential that John Adams  कहा , `` बगैर  the pen of the author of Common Sense , the sword of Washington would have been raised in vain.”
Paine lived in France for most of the 1790s , becoming deeply involved   in the French Revolution .
He wrote the Rights of Man ( 1791 ) , in part a  रक्षा  of the French Revolution against its critics .
His attacks on British writer Edmund Burke led to a trial and conviction  in  absentia in 1792 for the crime of seditious libel .
In 1792 , despite not being able to speak French , he was elected to the French  नेशनल सम्मेलन  .
The  girondists  regarded him as an ally .
Consequently ,  the montagnards , विशेषकर  Robespierre , regarded him as an enemy .
in दिसम्बर 1793  , he was arrested and imprisoned in Paris , then released in 1794 .
He became notorious because of The Age of Reason ( 1793–94 ) ,  उसके किताब कि अधिवक्ताओं देववाद , promotes  reason and freethinking , and argues against institutionalized religion in general and Christian doctrine in particular .
He also wrote the pamphlet  कृषिक इंसाफ  ( 1795 ) , discussing the origins of property , and introduced the concept of a guaranteed minimum income .
In 1802 , he returned to  अमेरिका जहाँ  he died on June 8 , 1809 .
तभी छह लोगों  attended his funeral as he had been ostracized for his ridicule of Christianity .
Clinical trials are sets of tests in medical research and drug development that generate safety and efficacy data ( or more specifically , information about adverse drug reactions and adverse effects of other treatments ) for health  interventions ( e.g.  , drugs , diagnostics , devices , therapy protocols ) .
They are conducted only after satisfactory information has been gathered on the quality  of the  non clinical safety , and health authority/ethics committee approval is granted in the country where approval of the drug or device is sought .
Previously , many emerging countries  किया नहीं  require local trials for product approvals .
Now , though emerging countries still accept data from U.S./Europe , they also require some  लोकल ट्रायल  .
Depending on the type of product and the stage of its development , investigators initially enroll volunteers and/or patients into small pilot  अध्ययन , और subsequently conduct larger स्केल  studies in patients that often compare the new product with others already approved for the affliction of interest .
As positive safety and  efficacy आंकड़ा हैं gathered  , the number of patients is typically increased .
Clinical trials can vary in size , and can involve a single research  एंटिटी in एक देश  or many such entities in multiple countries .
A full series of trials may  incur sizable लागत , और the बोझ of paying लिये सब the  necessary people and services is usually borne by the sponsor , which may be a governmental organization or a pharmaceutical , biotechnology or medical device company .
When the diversity of required support roles exceeds the resources of the sponsor , a clinical trial is managed by an outsourced partner , such as a contract research organization or a clinical trials unit in  the अकादमिक सेक्टर  .
The Green Bay Packers are an American football  टोली आधारित in  Green Bay , Wisconsin .
They are members of the North  प्रभाग of the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल  Conference ( NFC ) in the National Football League ( NFL ) .
Green  खाड़ी is the third-oldest  franchise in the NFL , having been organized and playing in 1919 .
The Packers are the only non-profit , community-owned  प्रमुख लीग पेशेवर  sports team in the United States .
the पैकर्स हैं the  last vestige of `` small town teams '' that were once common in the NFL during the 1920s and 1930s .
Founded in 1919 by Earl `` Curly '' Lambeau ( hence the name Lambeau Field on which the team plays ) and George Whitney Calhoun , the Green Bay Packers can trace their lineage to other  semi-professional टीमों in  Green Bay dating back to 1896 .
In 1919 and 1920 the Packers competed as a  semi-professional  football team against clubs from around Wisconsin and the Midwest .
They joined the American Professional Football  संघ ( apfa ) in 1921  , the forerunner to what is known today as the National Football League ( NFL ) .
Although Green  खाड़ी  is the last NFL `` small town '' team , its local fan base and media extends into nearby Milwaukee ; the team also played selected home games there between 1933 and 1994 .
The Green Bay Packers have won 13 league championships ( more than any other team in the NFL ) , including nine NFL championships prior to the  सुपर कटोरी era और चार सुपर कटोरी victories —in 1967 ( सुपर  Bowl I ) , 1968 ( Super Bowl II ) , 1997 ( Super Bowl XXXI ) and 2011 ( Super Bowl XLV ) .
The Packers have long-standing , bitter rivalries with their NFC North (  formerly  the NFC Central ) opponents , the Chicago Bears , Minnesota Vikings and the Detroit Lions .
The Bears-Packers rivalry is one of the oldest rivalries in NFL history , dating back to  1921 .
Ethanol fuel is ethanol ( ethyl alcohol ) , the same type of alcohol found in alcoholic  पेय .
It is most often  प्रयुक्त as a मोटर ईंधन , मुख्यतः  as a biofuel additive for gasoline .
World ethanol  उत्पादन लिये हस्तांतरण  fuel tripled between 2000 and 2007 from 17 billion to more than 52 billion liters .
From 2007 to 2008 , the  share  of ethanol in global gasoline type fuel use increased from 3.7 % to 5.4 % .
In 2011 worldwide ethanol fuel production reached 22.36 billion U.S. liquid gallons ( bg ) ( 84.6 billion liters ) , with the United States as the top producer with 13.9 bg ( 52.6 billion liters )  , हिसाब  for 62.2 % of global production , followed by Brazil with 5.6 bg ( 21.1 billion liters ) .
Ethanol fuel has a `` gasoline  गैलन equivalency  `` ( GGE ) value of , which means 1.5 gallons of ethanol produce the energy of one gallon of gasoline .
Ethanol fuel is widely used in Brazil and in the United States , and together both countries were responsible for   87.1 % of the world 's ethanol fuel production in 2011 .
Most cars  on the सड़क आज in the u.S.  can run on blends of up to 10 % ethanol , and ethanol represented 10 % of the U.S. gasoline fuel supply derived from domestic sources in 2011 .
Since 1976 the Brazilian government has made it mandatory to blend ethanol with gasoline , and since 2007 the legal blend is around 25 % ethanol and 75 % gasoline  (  E25 ) .
By December 2011 Brazil had a fleet of 14.8 million  flex-fuel  automobiles and light trucks and 1.5 million flex-fuel motorcycles that regularly use neat ethanol fuel ( known as E100 ) .
Bioethanol is a form of renewable  उर्जा कि  can be produced from agricultural feedstocks .
It can be made from very common  फसलों ऐसे as  sugar cane , potato , manioc and corn .
There has been considerable debate about how useful  bioethanol  will be in replacing gasoline .
Concerns about its production and use relate to increased food prices due to the large amount of arable land required for crops ,  as खूब as the उर्जा और प्रदूषण संतुलन  of the whole cycle of ethanol production , especially from corn .
Recent developments with cellulosic ethanol  उत्पादन और व्यावसायीकरण  may allay some of these concerns .
Cellulosic ethanol offers promise because  cellulose मछली , a प्रमुख और सार्वभौमिक घटक  in plant cells walls , can be used to produce ethanol .
According to the International Energy Agency , cellulosic ethanol could allow ethanol fuels to play a much bigger role in  the भविष्य than previously  thought .
साब  9-3 SportCombi BioPower .
The second E85  flexifuel मॉडल introduced  by Saab in the Swedish market .
A plaque commemorating the location of the  साराजेवो हत्या और कदम of gavrilo princip ( चित्र लिया in 1987 , पहले  steps were removed in 1992 and plaque changed from Cyrillic to Latin script )
A plaque  commemorating the  location of the Sarajevo assassination ( image taken in 2009 )
On 28 June 1914 , Archduke  फ्रांज फर्डिनेंड of ऑस्ट्रिया , वारिस presumptive to the austro-hungarian  throne , and his wife , Sophie , Duchess of Hohenberg , were shot dead in Sarajevo , by Gavrilo Princip , one of a group of six Bosnian Serb assassins coordinated by Danilo Ilić .
the राजनैतिक उद्देश्य of the हत्या थी to ब्रेक बंद austria-hungary 's south-slav प्रांतों so वे could be संयुक्त into a वृहद सर्बिया or a यूगोस्लाविया .
The assassins ' motives were consistent with the movement that later became known  as  Young Bosnia .
Serbian military officers stood  पीछे the आक्रमण  .
At the top of these Serbian military conspirators was Chief of Serbian Military Intelligence Dragutin Dimitrijević , his righthand man  प्रमुख vojislav tankosić , और masterspy rade malobabić  .
Major Tankosić armed the  हत्यारे साथ बम  and pistols and trained them .
The assassins were given access to the same clandestine tunnel of safe-houses and agents that  rade malobabić प्रयुक्त लिये the घुसपैठ  of weapons and operatives into Austria-Hungary .
The assassins , the key members of the clandestine tunnel , and the key Serbian military conspirators who were still alive were arrested  , आजमाया , convicted और  punished .
Those who were arrested in Bosnia  यहूद आजमाया in साराजेवो  in October 1914 .
The other conspirators were arrested and tried before a Serbian kangaroo court on the French-controlled Salonika Front in 1916–1917 on unrelated false charges  ; सर्बिया चलाया तीन of the शीर्ष सैन्य  conspirators .
Much of what is known  परिचय the assassinations  comes from these two trials and related records .
Assignment of responsibility for the bombing and murders of 28 June is highly controversial because the attack led to the outbreak of World War I one  माह बाद  .
Renée Kathleen Zellweger ( born April 25  ,  1969 ) is an American actress and producer .
Zellweger first gained widespread attention for her role in the film Jerry Maguire ( 1996 ) , and subsequently received two nominations for the Academy Award for Best  अभिनेत्री लिये उसके भूमिकाएँ as ब्रिजेट  Jones in the comedy Bridget Jones 's Diary ( 2001 ) , and as Roxie Hart in the musical Chicago ( 2002 ) .
She won the Academy Award for Best Supporting  अभिनेत्री  for her performance in the drama Cold Mountain ( 2003 ) .
She has won an Academy Award , three Golden Globe Awards , three Screen Actors Guild Awards , and a BAFTA Award ; was named Hasty Pudding 's Woman of the Year in 2009 ; and established herself as one of the highest-paid Hollywood actresses as of  2007  .
The ossicles ( also called auditory ossicles ) are the three  smallest हड्डियों  in the human body , the malleus , the incus and the stapes .
They are contained within the middle ear space and  serve to संचारण  sounds from the air to the fluid-filled labyrinth ( cochlea ) .
The absence of the auditory  ossicles होता constitute  a moderate-to-severe hearing loss .
The term `` ossicles '' literally means `` tiny bones '' and commonly refers to the auditory ossicles ,  हालांकि the पद may refer to कोई छोटी अस्थि  throughout the body .
The New Covenant ( Hebrew • • —  यूनानी • • diatheke kaine ) is a biblical  interpretation originally derived from a phrase in the Book of Jeremiah , in the Hebrew Scriptures .
It is often thought of as an eschatological Messianic Age or world  to  come and is related to the biblical concept of the Kingdom of God .
Generally , Christians  believe that the New  Covenant was instituted at the Last Supper as part of the Eucharist , which in the Gospel of John includes the New Commandment .
There are several Christian eschatologies that further define the New Covenant , as an example an inaugurated eschatology defines and describes the New Covenant as an ongoing relationship between Christian believers and  परमेश्वर कि होगा be in पूरा फलीभूत  after the Second Coming of Christ ; that is , it will not only be in full fruition in believing hearts , but in the future external world as well .
The connection between the Blood of Christ and the New Covenant is seen in most modern English translations of the New Testament with the saying  : `` इस कप कि is poured आउट लिये तुम is the नई वचन  in my blood '' .
Christians believe that Jesus is the mediator  of the नई  Covenant , and that the Blood of Christ shed at his crucifixion is the required blood of the covenant .
As with all covenants between God and man described in the Bible , the New Covenant is considered `` a bond in  रक्त sovereignly administered  by God . ''
It has been theorized that the New Covenant is the Law of Christ as  बोला दौरान उसके उपदेश on  the Mount .
The following List of people pardoned or granted clemency by the President of the United States documents the most  prominent  cases of each presidency .
As granted by the Constitution ( Article II , Section 2 , Clause 1 ) , Presidents  have the शक्ति to ग्रान्ट दया in  one or more of the following ways : the ability to grant a full pardon , to commute a sentence , or to rescind a fine .
U.S. Presidents have no  शक्ति  to grant clemency for crimes prosecuted under state law .
As to the difference between  a  pardon and a commutation:
A pardon is an  कार्यपालिका  order vacating a conviction .
A commutation is the mitigation of the sentence of someone currently serving a sentence for a crime pursuant to a conviction , without  vacating the  conviction itself .
Approximately   20,000 pardons and clemencies were issued by U.S. presidents in the 20th century alone .
The  रिकॉर्ड  of acts of clemency were public until 1934 .
In 1981 the Office of the Pardon Attorney was created and records  इससे अध्यक्ष  H. W. Bush forward are now listed .
इस  list includes pardons and commutations .
Tampa ( ) is a city in the U.S. state  of फ्लोरिडा  .
it serves as  the county seat for Hillsborough County and is located on the west coast of Florida , on Tampa Bay near the Gulf of Mexico .
The population of  tampa  in 2011 was 346,037 .
the वर्तमान स्थान  of Tampa was once inhabited by indigenous peoples of the Safety Harbor culture , most notably the Tocobaga and the Pohoy , who lived along the shores of Tampa Bay .
It was briefly explored by Spanish explorers in the early 16th century , but there were no  स्थाई अमरीकी or यूरोपीय settlements भीतर  today 's city limits until after the United States had acquired Florida from Spain in 1819 .
In 1824 , the United States Army established a frontier outpost called Fort Brooke at the mouth of the Hillsborough River , near the site  of आज 's tampa सम्मेलन बीच  .
The first civilian  निवासियों यहूद  pioneers who settled near the fort for protection from the nearby Seminole population .
The  कस्बा grew धीरे जबतक the 1880s  , when railroad links , the discovery of phosphate , and the arrival of the cigar industry jump-started Tampa 's development and helped it to grow into an important city by the early 1900s .
Today , Tampa is a part of the metropolitan area most  commonly  referred to as the Tampa Bay Area .
For U.S. Census purposes , Tampa is part  of the tampa-st. petersburg-clearwater  , Florida Metropolitan Statistical Area .
The four-county area is composed of roughly 2.7 million residents , making it the second largest metropolitan statistical area ( MSA ) in the state , and the fourth largest in the Southeastern United States , behind Miami  , Washington  , D.C. , and Atlanta .
The Greater Tampa Bay area has just  over 4 लाख  residents and generally includes the Tampa and Sarasota metro areas .
the tampa  Bay Partnership and U.S. Census data showed an average annual growth of 2.47 percent , or a gain of approximately 97,000 residents per year .
Between 2000 and 2006 , the Greater Tampa Bay Market experienced a combined growth rate of 14.8  प्रतिशत ,  growing from 3.4 million to 3.9 million and hitting the 4 million people mark on April 1 , 2007 .
A 2012 estimate shows the Tampa Bay area population to have 4,310,524 people and a 2017  प्रक्षेप  of 4,536,854 people .
Tampa has a number of sports teams , such as the Tampa Bay  buccaneers of the  National Football League , the Tampa Bay Lightning of the National Hockey League , and the Tampa Bay Storm of the Arena Football League .
the tampa खाड़ी किरणें in प्रमुख  League Baseball and the Tampa Bay Rowdies of the North American Soccer League play their home games in neighboring St. Petersburg , Florida .
In 2008 , Tampa was ranked  as the  5th best outdoor city by Forbes .
A 2004 survey by  the nyu समाचारपत्र वॉशिंगटन  Square News ranked Tampa as a top city for `` twenty-somethings . ''
Tampa is now ranked as a `` Gamma '' world city  by loughborough  University .
According to Loughborough , Tampa ranks alongside other world cities such as  फीनिक्स , सेंटो  Domingo , and Osaka .
In recent years Tampa has seen a notable upsurge in  high-market माँग  from consumers , signaling more wealth concentrated in the area .
Tampa hosted the 2012 Republican  नेशनल सम्मेलन  .
The Chevrolet Cavalier was a compact  ऑटोमोबाइल उत्पादित इससे 1982  to 2005 by General Motors .
Built on the company 's J platform , the Cavalier  उत्पादित  the highest sales in 1984 .
AT & T Mobility LLC branded and referred to as AT & T ( formerly Cingular Wireless LLC ) , is a wholly owned subsidiary of AT & T  inc. कि provides बेतार सेवाएं to  107 million subscribers in the United States , including Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands .
AT & T Mobility is the  दूसरी largest बेतार दूरसंचार  provider in the United States and Puerto Rico , behind Verizon Wireless , which serves 115.78 million customers as of the fourth quarter of 2012 .
AT & T Mobility is  headquartered  in the Lenox Park area of DeKalb Co. Georgia , just outside Atlanta .
originally cingular बेतार llc इससे 2000 to 2007  , a joint venture between SBC Communications and BellSouth , the company acquired the old AT & T Wireless in 2004 ; SBC later acquired the original AT & T and re-branded as `` AT & T '' .
Cingular became wholly owned by AT & T in December 2006 as a result of AT & T 's  अधिग्रहण  of BellSouth .
In January 2007 ,  cingular  confirmed it would re-brand itself under the AT & T name .
Although the legal corporate name change occurred immediately , for both regulatory and brand-awareness reasons both brands were used in the company  's साइनेज और विज्ञापन दौरान a परिवर्तन काल  .
The  परिवर्तन  concluded in late June , just prior to the rollout of the Apple iPhone .
On March 20 , 2011 , AT & T  गतिशीलता घोषित  its intention to acquire T-Mobile USA from Deutsche Telekom for $ 39 billion .
If it had received government and regulatory approval ,  at & t होता have था  more than 130 million subscribers .
However , the U.S. Department of Justice , the Federal Communications  आयोग , और at & t गतिशीलता 's प्रतिस्पर्धी  ( such as Sprint Nextel ) opposed the move on the grounds that it would reduce competition in the cellular communications market .
In December 2011 , in the face of both governmental and widespread consumer opposition , AT & T withdrew their offer to  पूरा the  merger .
Martin Luther King , Jr. ( January 15 , 1929 – April 4 , 1968 ) was an American clergyman , activist , and  नेता in the african-american  Civil Rights Movement .
He is best known for his role in the advancement of civil  rights using  nonviolent civil disobedience .
King has become a national icon in the history  of अमरीकी प्रगतिवाद  .
A Baptist minister , King became a civil rights  activist  early in his career .
He led the 1955 Montgomery Bus Boycott and helped found the  Southern  Christian Leadership Conference ( SCLC ) in 1957 , serving as its first president .
With the SCLC , King led an unsuccessful struggle against segregation in Albany , Georgia , in 1962 , and organized nonviolent protests in Birmingham , Alabama , that attracted  नेशनल ध्यान following टेलीविज़न न्यूज कवरेज of the क्रूर पुलिस  response .
King also helped to organize the 1963 March on  वॉशिंगटन , जहाँ he वितरित उसके ``  I Have a Dream `` speech .
There , he  स्थापित उसके प्रतिष्ठा  as one of the greatest orators in American history .
He also established his reputation as a radical , and became an object of the Federal Bureau of  छानबीन 's cointelpro लिये the  rest of his life .
FBI agents  investigated उसे लिये संभावित कम्युनिस्ट  ties , recorded his extramarital liaisons and reported on them to government officials , and on one occasion , mailed King a threatening anonymous letter that he interpreted as an attempt to make him commit suicide .
On October 14 , 1964 , King received the Nobel Peace Prize for combating racial inequality  through  nonviolence .
In 1965 , he and the SCLC helped to organize the Selma to Montgomery marches  और the following साल  , he took the movement north to Chicago .
In the final years of his life , King expanded his focus to  शामिल गरीबी  and the Vietnam War , alienating many of his liberal allies with a 1967 speech titled `` Beyond Vietnam '' .
King was planning a national occupation of Washington , D.C.  , पुकारा the ग़रीब  People 's Campaign .
King was assassinated on April 4 , 1968  , in मेम्फिस ,  Tennessee .
His death was followed  by दंगे in  many U.S. cities .
Allegations that James Earl Ray , the man convicted of killing King , had been  framed or acted in कॉन्सर्ट साथ सरकारी एजेंटों persisted  for decades after the shooting , and the jury of a 1999 civil trial found Loyd Jowers to be complicit in a conspiracy against King .
King was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom and the  congressional  Gold Medal posthumously .
Martin Luther King , Jr. Day was established as a  u.S.  federal holiday in 1986 .
सैंकड़ों of गलियों in the  U.S. have been renamed in his honor .
A  मेमोरियल  statue on the National Mall was opened to the public in 2011 .
The tiger ( Panthera tigris ) is the largest cat species ,  reaching a कुल देह लंबाई of up  to and weighing up to .
It is the third largest land carnivore ( behind only the  ध्रुवीय  bear and the brown bear ) .
Its most recognizable feature  is a पैटर्न of अंधेरा  vertical stripes on reddish-orange fur with a lighter underside .
It has exceptionally stout teeth , and the canines are the longest among living felids with a  क्राउन  height of as much as or even .
In zoos , tigers have lived for 20 to 26 years , which also seems to be their  आयु  in the wild .
They are territorial and generally solitary but social animals , often requiring large contiguous areas of habitat   that support their prey requirements .
This , coupled  साथ the फैक्ट कि वे हैं स्वदेशी  to some of the more densely populated places on Earth , has caused significant conflicts with humans .
Tigers once  ranged  widely across Asia , from Turkey in the west to the eastern coast of Russia .
Over the past 100 years , they have lost 93 % of their historic range , and have been extirpated from southwest and central  एशिया , इससे  the islands of Java and Bali , and from large areas of Southeast and Eastern Asia .
Today , they range from the Siberian taiga to open grasslands  और तीव्र mangrove  swamps .
The  बाकी छह बाघ subspecies  have been classified as endangered by IUCN .
The global population in the wild is estimated to number between 3,062 and 3,948 individuals , down from  around 100,000 at the प्रारंभ of the 20th सदी , साथ  most remaining populations occurring in small pockets isolated from each other .
Major  कारण लिये जनसांख्यिकी  decline include habitat destruction , habitat fragmentation and poaching .
The extent of  क्षेत्रफल  occupied by tigers is estimated at less than , a 41 % decline from the area estimated in the mid-1990s .
Tigers are among the most  recognisable और लोकप्रिय of  the world 's charismatic megafauna .
They have featured  prominently in प्राचीन mythology  and folklore , and continue to be depicted in modern films and literature .
टाइगर्स  appear on many flags , coats of arms , and as mascots for sporting teams .
The Bengal tiger is the national  एनिमल of दोनो इण्डिया और  Bangladesh .
The simplified internal structure of a  हरितलवक
Overview of the  calvin साईकिल  and carbon fixation
The light-independent reactions of photosynthesis are chemical reactions that  बदलें कार्बन  dioxide and other compounds into glucose .
These reactions occur in the stroma , the fluid-filled area of a  हरितलवक बाहर of the thylakoid झिल्लियों  .
These reactions take the light-dependent reactions and  perform further  chemical processes on them .
There are three phases to the light-independent reactions , collectively called the Calvin cycle : carbon fixation ,  कटौती प्रतिक्रियाएँ , और  ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate ( RuBP ) regeneration .
Despite its name , this process occurs only when  लाइट  is available .
पौधे  do not carry out the Calvin cycle by night .
They , instead , release  sucrose into  the phloem from their starch reserves .
This process happens when light is available independent of the kind of photosynthesis ( C3 carbon fixation , C4 carbon fixation , and Crassulacean Acid Metabolism ) ; CAM plants store malic acid in  उनके vacuoles प्रत्येक रात्रि और रिलीज it by दिन in अनुक्रम  to make this process work .
A linen handkerchief with pulled thread  कढ़ाई around  the edges
Linen  cloth बरामद  from Qumran Cave 1 near the Dead Sea .
Linen ( ) is a textile made from the fibers of the  flax संयंत्र , linum  usitatissimum .
Linen is labor-intensive to manufacture , but when it is made into garments , it is valued for its  असाधारण शीतलता  and freshness in hot weather .
The word `` linen '' is of West Germanic origin and cognates with the  लैटिन  name for the flax plant linum , and the earlier Greek λινόν ( linon ) .
This word history has given rise to a number of other terms in English , the most notable of which is the English word line , derived from the use of a  लिनेन ( flax ) लड़ी to determine  a straight line .
Textiles in a linen weave texture ,  भी  when made of cotton , hemp and other non-flax fibers are also loosely referred to as `` linen '' .
Such fabrics generally  have  their own specific names other than linen ; for example , fine cotton yarn in a linen-style weave is called Madapolam .
The collective term `` linens `` is still often used  generically to describe a क्लास of woven और भी  knitted bed , bath , table and kitchen textiles .
The name linens is retained because traditionally , linen  थी प्रयुक्त लिये  many of these items .
In the past , the word `` linens '' was also used to mean lightweight undergarments such as shirts , chemises , waistshirts , lingerie ( a word also cognate with linen ) , and detachable shirt collars and  cuffs , which were  historically made almost exclusively out of linen .
The inside cloth layer of fine composite clothing garments ( as for example jackets )  थी  traditionally made of linen , and this is the origin of the word lining .
लिनेन वस्त्र appear  to be some of the oldest in the world : their history goes back many thousands of years .
Fragments of straw , seeds , fibers , yarns , and various types of fabrics which date back to about 8000 BC have been found  in  Swiss lake dwellings .
Dyed flax  मछली मिला in a प्रागैतिहासिक गुफा in जॉर्जिया सुझाएँ  the use of woven linen fabrics from wild flax may date back even earlier to 36,000 BP .
Linen was  sometimes प्रयुक्त  as currency in ancient Egypt .
Egyptian mummies were wrapped in  लिनेन  because it was seen as a symbol of light and purity , and as a display of wealth .
Some of these fabrics , woven from hand spun  yarns , यहूद बहुत ठीक लिये उनके  day , but are coarse compared to modern linen .
Today , linen is usually an  महंगी वस्त्र  , and is produced in relatively small quantities .
It has a long `` staple '' ( individual fiber  लंबाई ) सापेक्ष  to cotton and other natural fibers .
Many products are made of linen : aprons , bags , towels ( swimmers , bath , beach , body and wash towels ) , napkins , bed  linens , लिनेन चौके  , runners , chair covers , and men 's & women 's wear .
The FIFA World Cup , often simply the World Cup , is an international association football competition contested by the senior men 's national teams of the members of Fédération Internationale de Football  संघ  ( FIFA ) , the sport 's global governing body .
The championship has been awarded every four years since the inaugural  टूर्नामेंट in 1930  , except in 1942 and 1946 when it was not held because of the Second World War .
The current  champions  are Spain , who won the 2010 tournament .
The current format of the tournament involves 32 teams competing for the title at venues within  the मेजबान स्वदेश ( s ) over a काल of परिचय a माह  ; this phase is often called the World Cup Finals .
A qualification phase , which  फिलहाल takes प्लेस over the preceding तीन सालो , is प्रयुक्त  to determine which teams qualify for the tournament together with the host nation ( s ) .
The 19 World Cup  tournaments  have been won by eight different national teams .
Brazil have won five  टाइम्स , और वे हैं the  only team to have played in every tournament .
The other World Cup winners are Italy , with four titles ; Germany , with three   titles ; Argentina and inaugural winners Uruguay , with two titles each ; and England , France , and Spain , with one title each .
The World Cup is the world 's most widely viewed sporting event ; an estimated 715.1  लाख लोगों देखी the फाइनल  match of the 2006 FIFA World Cup held in Germany .
The next three World Cups will be hosted by Brazil in 2014 ,  रूस  in 2018 , and Qatar in 2022 .
The is an expansion device for the Wii Remote video game controller for  the वी  that allows it to more accurately capture complex motion .
According to Nintendo , the sensor in the  यंत्र पूरक the accelerometer  and Sensor Bar capabilities of the Wii Remote to enable actions to be rendered identically on the screen in real time .
The Wii 's successor console , the Wii U , supports the Wii MotionPlus and its peripherals in games  जहाँ उपयोग of इसके touchscreen-built-in  primary controller is not necessary .
Majulah Singapura ( Onward  सिंगापुर  ) is the national anthem of Singapore .
Composed by Zubir Said in 1958 as a theme song for official functions of the City Council of  सिंगापुर , the सोंग थी चयनित  in 1959 as the island 's anthem when it attained self-government .
Upon full  स्वतंत्रता in 1965  , Majulah Singapura was formally adopted as Singapore 's national anthem .
By law the  गान may तभी  be sung with its original Malay lyrics , although there exist authorized translations of the lyrics of the anthem in Singapore 's three other official languages : English , Mandarin and Tamil .
Originally composed in the key of G major , in 2001 the national anthem was officially relaunched in the lower key of F  प्रमुख as इस थी कहा to allow लिये a `` grander  and more inspiring arrangement '' .
the नेशनल गान is regularly performed or सुंग in  schools and armed forces camps at ceremonies held at the beginning and/or the end of each day , during which the national flag is also raised and lowered and the national pledge is taken .
Singaporeans are especially encouraged to sing the national anthem on occasions of national celebration or national significance such as at the National Day Parade , at National Day observance ceremonies conducted by educational institutions and government departments , and at sporting events  at जिससे  Singapore teams are participating .
An  expedition 's  shipwrights building a brigantine , 1541 .
Shipbuilding is the construction of  जहाजों और फ्लोटिंग  vessels .
It normally takes place in a specialized  सुविधा ज्ञात as a  shipyard .
Shipbuilders , also called  shipwrights , follow a specialized occupation  that traces its roots to before recorded history .
Shipbuilding and ship repairs ,  दोनो  commercial and military , are referred to as `` naval engineering '' .
The construction of boats is  a समान  activity called boat building .
The dismantling of  जहाजों  is called ship breaking .
Wakonda is a town in Clay County , South  डकोटा , संयुक्त  States .
The population was 321 at  the  2010 census .
The following is a list of  the  most populous incorporated places of the United States of America .
As defined by the United States Census Bureau  , an `` incorporated प्लेस ``  includes a variety of designations , including city , town , village , borough , and municipality .
A few exceptional  जनसांख्यिकी  Designated Places ( CDPs ) are also included in the Census Bureau 's listing of incorporated places .
Consolidated city-counties represent a distinct type of  सरकारी कि शामिल  the entire population of a county , or county equivalent .
Some  संचित  city-counties , however , include multiple incorporated places .
This list presents only that portion ( or `` balance '' ) of such consolidated  city-counties कि हैं नहीं a भाग  of another incorporated place .
Note that this list refers only to the population of individual  municipalities  within their defined limits , which does not include other municipalities or unincorporated suburban areas within urban agglomerations .
A different ranking is evident when considering U.S.  महानगर  area populations .
alt=Larger  flashcart , दिखाया  with small card and U.S. quarter for size
Nintendo DS storage devices are devices used to store a licensed developer 's work-in-progress images , homebrew video games and downloaded commercial games ( since  the निन्टेंडो  DS is not sold with a rewritable storage medium ) .
Licensed developers ,  however , can उपयोग a ब्लू  Intelligent Systems Nitro Emulator box to flash cards .
These devices are also known  as `` flashcarts  '' or `` flashcards '' .
There are two main classes of flashcarts : older devices which fit in Slot-2 ( the Game Boy Advance Game Pak slot ) and newer devices that fit in  slot-1 ( the ds खेल कार्ड  slot ) .
Slot-2 ( or first-generation ) devices have been historically cheaper due to economies of scale ( inherited from their use with Game Boy Advance ) , but require a booting tool  in Slot-1 in  order to use the touch screen and other DS features .
Second-generation devices ( those which only use Slot-1 ) do not work with GBA  homebrew , लकिन became कम महंगी और  easier to use , rivaling many Slot-2 devices in price .
First-generation  डिवाइस शामिल gba फ्लैश कारतूस  , GBAMP CF , SuperCard , and M3 .
Second-generation devices include R4  क्रान्ति  , CycloDS , G6 Real and DS-X .
The storage device either contains flash memory or a slot for a  मेमोरी  card to store homebrew .
Storage devices with a  memory-card स्लॉट  usually have more storage capacity than flash-memory devices .
Although flash-memory capacity is usually measured in megabits ( Mb ) ,  memory-card क्षमता  is usually measured in megabytes ( MB ) ( where 8 Mb is 1 MB ) .
Storage-device brands differ in their support for homebrew ; DS and Game Boy Advance ROMs ; special  सुविधाएँ ( ऐसे as क्षमता to खेल मीडिया फाइलें  ) ; physical size and cost .
Strictly speaking , a storage device is not necessary for DS  साथ flashme संस्थापित क्युकी  homebrew can be sent to the DS using WMB .
However , this is not an  easily-portable विधि क्युकी the ds  needs to be within range of a suitable Wi-Fi card .
are American people of Japanese  विरासत  .
Japanese Americans have historically been among the three largest Asian American communities , but in recent  दशकों , it रै  become the sixth largest group at roughly 1,304,286 , including those of mixed-race or mixed-ethnicity .
In the 2010  जनसांख्यिकी , the  largest Japanese American communities were found in California with 272,528 , Hawaii with 185,502 , New York with 37,780 , Washington with 35,008 , and Illinois with 17,542 .
Southern California  रै the largest  Japanese-American population in North America .
200px
This is a comprehensive listing which  हाइलाइट significant उपलब्धियाँ  and milestones based upon Billboard magazine 's singles charts , most notably the Billboard Hot 100 .
इस सूची spans इससे the  issue dated January 1 , 1955 to present .
The  बिलबोर्ड hot 100 began साथ the समस्या दिनाँक अगस्त 4 , 1958 , और is फिलहाल the मानक लोकप्रिय म्यूज़िक चार्ट in the संयुक्त राज्य .
Prior to the creation of the Hot 100 , Billboard published four singles charts : `` Best Sellers in Stores '' , `` Most Played  by jockeys '' , `` सबसे निभाई in jukeboxes  '' and `` The Top 100 '' .
These charts , which ranged from 20 to 100 slots , were phased out at different times  between 1957 और 1958  .
Though technically not part of the Hot 100 chart history , their data is included for computational purposes , and to  avoid unenlightening  or misleading characterizations .
सब वस्तुएं सूचीबद्ध  below are from the Hot 100 era , unless otherwise noted ( pre-Hot 100 charts ) .
V is an American   science fiction television series that ran for two seasons on ABC , from November 3 , 2009 to March 15 , 2011 .
A remake of the 1983 miniseries created by Kenneth Johnson , the new series chronicles the arrival on Earth of a  technologically उन्नत एलियन प्रजाति  which ostensibly comes in peace , but actually has sinister motives .
V stars Morena Baccarin , Lourdes Benedicto , Morris Chestnut , Joel Gretsch ,  लोगन huffman , चार्ल्स mesure , एलिज़ाबेथ मिशेल  , Laura Vandervoort and Scott Wolf , and was executive produced by Scott Rosenbaum , Yves Simoneau , Scott Peters , and Jace Hall .
The series was produced by The Scott Peters Company , HDFilms  और warner भाईs.  Television .
Geocaching is an outdoor recreational activity , in which the  भागीदार उपयोग a वैश्विक positioning प्रणाली ( gps ) receiver  or mobile device and other navigational techniques to hide and seek containers , called `` geocaches '' or `` caches '' , anywhere in the world .
A typical cache is a small waterproof container containing a logbook where the  geocacher enters  the date they found it and signs it with their established code name .
After signing into the log , the  संचय जरूर be  placed back exactly where the person found it .
Larger containers such as plastic storage containers ( Tupperware or similar ) or ammunition boxes can also contain items for  व्यापार , प्रायः खिलौने or trinkets of छोटी  value .
Geocaching  साझा अनेक पहलुओं साथ benchmarking , trigpointing  , orienteering , treasure-hunting , letterboxing , and waymarking .
Boogie Down Productions was a hip hop group that was originally  रचित of krs-one , d-nice , और  DJ Scott La Rock .
DJ Scott La Rock was murdered on August 27  , 1987 ,  months after the release of BDP 's debut album , Criminal Minded .
The name of the group , Boogie Down , derives from a nickname for the South Bronx section of The Bronx , one   of the five boroughs of New York City .
The group pioneered the fusion of dancehall reggae and hip hop music and their debut LP Criminal Minded contained frank descriptions of life in the South Bronx of the late 1980s thus setting the  स्टेज लिये कया होता आखिरकार become gangsta  rap .
A municipal bond is a bond issued by a local government  , or उनके  agencies .
Potential issuers of municipal bonds include states , cities , counties , redevelopment agencies , special-purpose districts , school districts , public utility districts , publicly owned  एयरपोर्ट और seaports , और कोई अन्य सरकारी एंटिटी ( or समूह of सरकारें  ) at or below the state level .
Municipal bonds may be general obligations of  the जारीकर्ता or secured  by specified revenues .
In the United States , interest income received by  धारकों of नगरपालिका bonds is प्रायः  exempt from the federal income tax and from the income tax of the state in which they are issued , although municipal bonds issued for certain purposes may not be tax exempt .
Unlike new issue stocks that are brought to market with price restrictions until the deal is sold , municipal bonds are free to trade at any time  एकबार वे हैं खरीदा by the  investor .
Professional traders regularly trade  and  retrade the same bonds several times a week .
`` Gim me Some Lovin ' '' is a song written by Steve Winwood , Spencer Davis and Muff Winwood , and originally  performed by the स्पेंसर डेविस समूह  .
The basic riff of the song was borrowed from the Homer Banks song `` ( Ai n't  कि ) a लॉट of प्रेम '' ,  written by Banks and Willie Dean `` Deanie '' Parker .
`` Gim me Some Lovin ' '' was a UK # 2 in the Autumn of  1966 और a us  # 7 .
The song is  क्रमित # 247 on the रोलिंग  Stone magazine 's list of The 500 Greatest Songs of All Time .
The version issued in the UK ( and probably most of Europe ) is different from  कि जारी  in the US on the United Artists label , being slower , and lacking the backing vocals and `` live sounding '' performance found on the US single .
( The US version has more often been used on reissue   CDs , even those coming from Europe . )
The single features the sound of the Hammond  b-3 अंग  .
The Internet Movie Database ( IMDb ) is an online database of information  सम्बन्धित to films ,  television programs , and video games .
This includes actors , production crew  कर्मियों , और fictional  characters featured in these three visual entertainment media .
It is one of the most popular online entertainment destinations , with over 100 million unique  उपयोक्ता प्रत्येक माह और a ठोस और  rapidly growing mobile presence .
IMDb was launched on October 17 , 1990 , and in 1998  थी acquired  by Amazon.com .
As of April 27 , 2013 , IMDb had 2,503,783 titles (  शामिल एपीसोड ) और 5,192,493  personalities in its database , as well as 43 million registered users .
The  जालस्थल  has an Alexa rank of 48 .
Fibre Channel Host Bus  एडाप्टर ( 64-bit pci-x  card )
scsi  Host Bus Adapter ( 16-bit ISA card )
In computer hardware , a host controller , host adapter , or host bus adapter ( HBA ) connects a host system ( the computer ) to other network  और भंडार डिवाइस  .
The terms are primarily used to  refer to डिवाइस  for connecting SCSI , Fibre Channel and eSATA devices .
However , devices for connecting to IDE , Ethernet , FireWire , USB and other systems may also be   called host adapters .
Recently , the advent of iSCSI and Fibre Channel  over ईथरनेट  has brought about Ethernet HBAs , which are different from Ethernet NICs in that they include TCP Offload Engines .
There are also converged HBAs that support both Ethernet and  fibre  Channel called Converged Network Adapters ( CNAs ) .
Cashmere  स्कार्फ
Modern  मेन  's cashmere sweaters for sale .
cashmere ऊन , प्रायः  simply known as cashmere , is a fiber obtained from Cashmere goats and other types of goat .
The word cashmere derives from an old  स्पेलिंग of काश्मीर  .
Cashmere is fine in texture , strong , light , and  नरम  .
Garments made from it provide  बेहतरीन इन्सुलेशन  .
In the United States , under the U.S . Wool Products Labeling Act of 1939 , as amended , ( 15 Uction 68b ( a ) ( 6 ) ) , states that a wool or textile product may not be labeled as  containing cashmere  unless:
such wool product is the fine ( dehaired ) undercoat  मछली उत्पादित by a  cashmere goat ( Capra hircus laniger ) ;
the average  व्यास  of the fiber of such wool product does not exceed 19 microns ; and
such wool product does not contain more than 3 percent ( by weight ) of cashmere  fibers  with average diameters that exceed 30 microns .
The average fiber diameter may be subject to a coefficient of variation around  the औसत कि  shall not exceed 24 percent .
Jennifer  convertibles inc.  is the owner and licensor of sofabed and leather specialty retail stores in the United States , with stores located throughout the Eastern seaboard , in the Midwest , on the West Coast and in the Southwest .
The company  थी संस्थापित  in 1975 and is based in Woodbury , New York .
On July 19 , 2010 , the company announced that it had filed for bankruptcy  as a consequence  of `` substantial losses '' .
According to Furniture Today the company was number 48 among  फर्नीचर रिटेलर साथ  US $ 114 million in sales for the year ending August 29 , 2009 .
It subsequently emerged from Chapter 11  अंतर्गत the कंट्रोल  of its major supplier , the Haining Mengnu Group .
Egg roll is a  पद प्रयुक्त लिये  many different foods around the world .
2__Egg_roll __ Varieties of egg rolls are found in mainland China , many  chinese-speaking  regions of Asia , and Chinese immigrant communities around the world .
Egg rolls as referred  to in चीन  .
In Guangdong and Hong Kong , egg roll usually refers to biscuit   roll .
This is a  प्रकार of  biscuit .
The ingredient included egg  , आटा और शुगर  .
Egg roll also  is a डिश  in Canton and Hong Kong , this is usually made with vegetable .
Within China egg rolls are eaten predominantly in the southeast and are not as  commonly  consumed in the north and western parts of China .
In American Chinese cuisine , an egg  फेंकें is a savory  dish typically served as an appetizer .
It is usually stuffed with chicken , pork or shrimp , cabbage  , गाजर , टमाटर  , bean sprouts and other vegetables , and then deep fried .
This variety of the egg roll is very common  और लोकप्रिय , आरपार भी क्षेत्रीय किस्में of  American Chinese food , and is often included as part of a `` combination platter '' .
in मॉन्ट्रियल , कनाडा  , open-ended eggrolls are a Jewish-Chinese fusion dish .
They can  be either  kosher certified or merely kosher style .
पीड़ा और कष्ट  is the legal term for the physical and emotional stress caused from an injury ( see also pain and suffering ) .
Some damages that might be under this category would be : aches , temporary and permanent  सीमाएं on कार्यकलाप ,  potential shortening of life , depression or scarring .
When filing a lawsuit as a result of an injury , it is common for  किसी to तलाश धन दोनो in मुआवजे  for actual money that is lost and for the pain and stress associated with virtually any injury .
In a suit , pain and suffering is part of the `` general damages '' section of the claimant 's claim , or ,  alternatively , it is an तत्व of  `` compensatory '' non-economic damages that allows recovery for the mental anguish and/or physical pain endured by the claimant as a result of injury for which the plaintiff seeks redress .
Apart from money damages awarded in trial  , धन क्षतिपूर्ति हैं भी दिए informally  outside the judicial system in mediations , arbitration ( both of which may be court annexed or non litigated claims ) as well as in routine insurance settlements .
Individual claimants or those  represented  by lawyers often present demands to insurers to settle for money .
These demand for bodily  चोट मुआवजे monies  often set out damages that are similarly used in the court litigated pleadings .
Demands are usually written summaries  of a claimant 's चिकित्सा  care and the facts which resulted in the injury .
Sample of a Medallion   signature guarantee stampIn
the United States and Canada , a  medallion  signature guarantee is a special signature guarantee for the transfer of securities .
It is a guarantee by the transferring  वित्तीय संस्था कि the हस्ताक्षर  is genuine and the financial institution accepts liability for any forgery .
Signature guarantees protect shareholders by preventing unauthorized  हस्तांतरण  and possible investor losses .
They also limit the liability of the transfer agent who  स्वीकृत the प्रमाणपत्र  .
Different institutions have different policies as to what type of  पहचान वे आवश्यकता to provide the  guarantee and whether they charge a fee for such service ( usually nominal if any ) .
Most institutions will  नहीं गारंटी a हस्ताक्षर of किसी  who has not already been their customer .
A medallion signature guarantee is not the same as an  acknowledgment by a नोटरी पब्लिक  , in the sense that a `` signature guarantee '' is a certification by the institution that the signature is authentic , and an acknowledgment is a certification by a notary public attesting that the signer signed a document voluntarily .
Some banks may no longer provide this service , however , many still do as well as other financial institutions such as a Savings  और  Loans and Credit Unions .
At their sole discretion  , ये  institutions may still decline to provide the Medallion Signature Guarantees .
When US citizens are abroad , some financial institutions may accept United States Embassy  seals  , in place of the Medallion Signature Guarantee Stamp .
Pacific Electric Railway streetcars stacked  at a junkyard on टर्मिनल  Island , Los Angeles County , California , March 1956
The General Motors streetcar conspiracy ( also known as the Great American streetcar scandal ) refers to allegations and convictions in relation to a program by General Motors ( GM ) and other companies who purchased and then dismantled streetcar and electric train systems in  अनेक अमरीकी  cities .
Between 1936 and 1950 , National City Lines and Pacific City Lines —with investment from GM , Firestone Tire , Standard Oil of California , Phillips Petroleum ,  mack ट्रक ,  and the Federal Engineering Corporation—bought over 100 electric surface-traction systems in 45 cities including Baltimore , Newark , Los Angeles , New York City , Oakland and San Diego and converted them into bus operation .
अनेक of the कंपनियाँ शामिल यहूद convicted in 1949 of षड्यंत्र to monopolize अंतरराज्यीय कॉमर्स लकिन यहूद acquitted of conspiring to monopolize the स्वामित्व of ये कंपनियाँ .
Some suggest that this  program played a key role in the decline of public transit in cities  across the United States ; notably Edwin J. Quinby , who first drew attention to the program in 1946 , and then Bradford C. Snell , an anti-trust attorney for the United States Senate whose controversial 1974 testimony to a Senate inquiry brought the issue to national awareness .
Both Quinby and Snell argued that the deliberate destruction of streetcars was part of a larger strategy to push  the संयुक्त राज्य into ऑटोमोबाइल  dependency .
Others say that independent economic factors brought about changes in the transit system , including the Great Depression , the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 , labor unrest , market forces , rapidly increasing traffic congestion ,  शहरी sprawl , कराधान नीतियों कि favored निजी गाडी स्वामित्व  , and general enthusiasm for the automobile .
One writer on the subject has suggested that Snell and others fell into  simplistic षड्यंत्र  theory thinking , bordering on paranoid delusions saying `` Clearly , GM waged a war on electric traction .
It was indeed an all out assault , but by no means the  सिंगल  reason for the failure of rapid transit .
Also , it is just as clear that actions and inactions by government contributed significantly to the elimination  of  electric traction . ''
Only a small handful of U.S. cities have surviving effective rail-based urban transport systems based   on streetcars or trams , including Newark , Philadelphia , San Francisco , Pittsburgh , and Boston ; others are re-introducing them .
The story has been explored several times in print , film and other media , notably in Who  framed रोजर  Rabbit , Taken for a Ride and The End of Suburbia .
Corwin House , Salem ,  मैसाचुसेट्स  , built ca . 1660 , First Period English
American colonial architecture includes several building design styles  संबद्ध साथ the औपनिवेशिक काल of the संयुक्त राज्य  , including First Period English ( late-medieval ) , French Colonial , Spanish Colonial , Dutch Colonial and Georgian .
These styles are associated with the   houses , churches and government buildings of the period from about 1600 through the 19th century .
`` In  the मनोदशा '' is a बिग बैंड era #  1 hit recorded by American bandleader Glenn Miller .
It topped the  चार्ट in  1940 in the U.S. and one year later was featured in the movie Sun Valley Serenade .
In 1999 , National Public Radio ( NPR ) included the  1939 ग्लेन  Miller recording on RCA Bluebird on the NPR 100 , the list of `` The 100 most important American musical works of the 20th century '' .
NEPTUNE  लोगो
The NEPTUNE Canada  प्रोजेक्ट is the world’s पहला  regional-scale underwater ocean observatory that plugs directly into the Internet .
Since December 2009 , it has allowed people to `` surf ''  the seafloor जबकि  ocean scientists run deep-water experiments from labs and universities around the world .
Along with its sister project ,  शुक्र , वरुण  offers a unique approach to ocean science .
Traditionally , ocean scientists have relied on infrequent ship cruises or  space-based satellites to carry  out their research , while the NEPTUNE project uses a remotely operated crawler .
A gramophone record , commonly known as a phonograph record ( in American English ) , vinyl record ( in reference to vinyl , the  सामग्री सबसे commonly प्रयुक्त बाद परिचय 1950 ) , or colloquially , ``  a record '' , is an analog sound storage medium consisting of a flat disc with an inscribed , modulated spiral groove .
The groove usually starts near the  periphery और  ends near the center of the disc .
Phonograph records are generally described by their diameter in inches ( 12-inch , 10-inch , 7-inch , etc . ) , the rotational speed at which they are played ( `` 33 rpm `` , `` 78 '' , `` 45 '' , etc . ) , their time capacity ( `` long playing '' ) , their reproductive accuracy , or `` fidelity `` ( `` high fidelity '' ,  `` orthophonic '' , ``  full-range '' , etc . ) , and the number of channels of audio provided ( `` mono `` , `` stereo `` , `` quadraphonic `` , etc . ) .
Phonograph records were the primary medium used for music reproduction for most of the 20th century , replacing the phonograph cylinder  , साथ जिससे it था co-existed  , by the 1920s .
By the late 1980s , digital media  had  gained a larger market share , and the vinyl record left the mainstream in 1991 .
They continue to be  manufactured और  sold in the 21st century .
In 2008 , nearly 2.9 million units shipped , the most in any year  चूंकि 1998 और the स्वरूप रै जारी  to slowly regain popularity .
They are  विशेषकर प्रयुक्त by  DJs and audiophiles for many types of music .
As of 2013 , vinyl records continue to be used for  वितरण  .
Grassland in the  सांता रोजा  Plateau , California .
Grassland in  the antelope  Valley , California
The Konza  tallgrass प्रेयरी  in the Flint Hills of northeastern Kansas .
a घासभूमि in the फिलीपीन .
An  भीतरी  Mongolian grassland in the People 's Republic of China
Grasslands are areas where the vegetation is  वर्चस्व by grasses ( पोएसी  ) , however sedge ( Cyperaceae ) and rush ( Juncaceae ) families can also be found .
Grasslands occur naturally on all continents except   Antarctica .
In temperate latitudes , such as northwestern Europe and the Great Plains and California in North America , native grasslands are dominated  by बारहमासी गुच्छा ग्रास प्रजाति  , whereas in warmer climates annual species form a greater component of the vegetation .
grasslands हैं  found in most ecoregions of the Earth .
For example there are five  स्थलीय ecoregion classifications  ( subdivisions ) of the temperate grasslands , savannas , and shrublands biome ( ' ecosystem ' ) , which is one of eight terrestrial ecozones of the Earth 's surface .
Henna ( Lawsonia inermis , also called henna tree ) or Hina is a flowering plant , the sole  प्रजाति in the genus lawsonia  in the family Lythraceae .
The English name `` henna '' comes from the Arabic ( ALA-LC : ḥinnāʾ /  सुनाया )  or colloquially , loosely pronounced .
The name is also used for dye  preparations निकला  from the plant , and for the art of temporary tattooing based on those dyes .
Henna has been used since antiquity to dye  स्किन  , hair , and fingernails , as well as fabrics including Silk , wool and leather .
Additionally , the name is misused for  अन्य  skin and hair dyes , such as black henna or neutral henna , which are not derived from the plant .
A thin film is a layer of material  ranging इससे भिन्नों of a nanometer  ( monolayer ) to several micrometers in thickness .
Electronic semiconductor devices and optical coatings are the main applications benefiting from  thin-film  construction .
A familiar application of thin films is the household mirror , which typically has a thin metal   coating on the back of a sheet of glass to form a reflective interface .
The process of silvering was  एकबार commonly  used to produce mirrors .
A very-thin-film coating ( less than a  nanometer मोटा )  is used to produce two-way mirrors .
The performance of optical  coatings ( e.g . antireflective , or ar  , coatings ) are typically enhanced when the thin-film coating consists of multiple layers having varying thicknesses and refractive indices .
Similarly , a periodic structure of alternating thin films of different materials may collectively form a so-called superlattice which exploits the phenomenon of  क्वांटम कारावास by restricting  electronic phenomena to two-dimensions .
कार्य is होने किया  with ferromagnetic and ferroelectric thin films for use as computer memory .
It is also being applied to pharmaceuticals  , via thin-film  drug delivery .
thin-films हैं प्रयुक्त  to produce thin-film batteries .
Thin films are also used in dye-sensitized  सौर कोशिकाएं  .
Ceramic thin  films हैं  in wide use .
The relatively high hardness and inertness of ceramic materials make this type of thin coating of interest for protection of substrate materials against corrosion  , ऑक्सीकरण और पहनें .
In particular , the use of such  coatings on कटिंग टूल्स can extend the  life of these items by several orders of magnitude .
Research is  होने किया on a नई क्लास of thin-film  inorganic oxide materials , called amorphous heavy-metal cation multicomponent oxides , which could be used to make transparent transistors that are inexpensive , stable , and environmentally benign .
Gears of War is a military science fiction third-person shooter video game developed by   Epic Games and published by Microsoft Game Studios .
It was initially released as an exclusive title for the Xbox 360 in November 2005 in North America , Australia , and most of Europe and included a `` Limited Collector 's Edition '' with added content and an art book titled Destroyed Beauty that  विस्तृत much of the खेल 's back-story  .
Despite the initial statements of Xbox 360 exclusivity , a Microsoft Windows version of the game was developed in conjunction with People Can Fly  और released a साल बाद , featuring नई  content including additional campaign levels , a new multiplayer game mode , and Games for Windows Live functionality .
The game focuses on the troops of Delta Squad as they wield a desperate , last-ditch attempt to save the remaining  human inhabitants of the  fictional planet Sera from a relentless and seemingly unstoppable subterranean enemy known as the Locust Horde .
the खिलाड़ी assumes  the role of Marcus Fenix ( but can also play as Dominic Santiago ) , a former prisoner and war-hardened soldier .
The game is based on the use of cover and   strategic fire for the player to advance through the scenarios ; a second player can play cooperatively through the main campaign to assist .
The game also features several online multiplayer game  मोड्स  for up to eight players .
Gears of War sold over three million copies in just ten weeks and was the fastest-selling video game  of 2005 as खूब  as the second-most played game over Xbox Live during .
It currently  स्टैंड as  the 5th best selling Xbox 360 game of all time .
The game has  चूंकि  sold over five million copies by September 2008 .
The game was well received by critics , who praised its gameplay and detailed visuals , and it won several `` Game of the Year  '' पुरस्कार in 2006  .
The success of the game has led to the development of the Gears of War franchise , including the 2008 sequel Gears of War 2 and its follow-up , Gears of War 3 , which was released on September 20 , 2011 , after having initially been set  to have महरूम released on अप्रैल 5 , 2011 , the तिथि upon  which Epic Games ' Cliff Bleszinski was a guest on Late Night with Jimmy Fallon .
Adaptations to books , comics , as  खूब  as a feature film are to be expected .
A  पेड़ grows in ब्रुकलीन  is a 1943 novel written by Betty Smith .
The story focuses on an Irish-American family in  williamsburg , ब्रुकलीन  , New York City .
the अनोखा  is set in the first and second decades of the 20th century .
the किताब थी  an immense success .
The main metaphor of the book is the hardy Tree of Heaven , native to China and Taiwan   , now considered invasive , and common in the vacant lots of New York City .
World map with the  intertropical  zone highlighted in red .
Tropical climate zones of the  धरती जहाँ सब बारह महीने  have mean temperatures above 18 °C ( 64 °F ) .
The tropics is a region of the Earth  surrounding the  Equator .
It is limited in latitude by the Tropic of Cancer in the northern hemisphere at approximately N and the Tropic of Capricorn in the southern hemisphere at S ; these latitudes  correspond to the अक्षीय  tilt of the Earth .
The tropics  हैं भी  referred to as the tropical zone and the torrid zone ( see geographical zone ) .
The tropics include all the areas on the Earth where the Sun reaches a point directly  ओवरहेड at तनिक एकबार दौरान the सौर साल  .
The tropics are distinguished from the other climatic and biomatic regions of Earth , the middle  latitudes  and the polar regions on either side of the equatorial zone .
For the INXS  सोंग , देखिए कया  You Need ( song ) .
`` What You Need '' is an episode of the  अमरीकी टेलीविज़न anthology  series The Twilight Zone .
It is based on the short story of the same name by Lewis Padgett ( Henry  kuttner और  C. L. Moore ) .
PlayhouseSquare , in the Cleveland Theater District in downtown Cleveland , Ohio , is the second-largest theater  जटिल in the संयुक्त राज्य  , second only to New York City 's Lincoln Center ) .
Constructed in  a स्पैन of 19 महीने in the  early 1920s , the theaters were subsequently closed down , but were revived through a grassroots effort .
Their renovation  और reopening helped usher in a नई  era of downtown revitalization in Cleveland , and was called `` one of the top ten successes in Cleveland history . ''
The driver and passenger front airbags   , after having been deployed , in a British Peugeot 306 car .
an  airbag is a vehicle safety device .
It is an occupant restraint system consisting of a flexible fabric envelope  or cushion designed to inflate rapidly  during an automobile collision .
Its purpose is to cushion occupants during a crash and provide protection to their bodies when they  स्ट्राइक आंतरिक वस्तुएँ ऐसे as  the steering wheel or a window .
Modern vehicles may contain multiple airbag modules in various side and frontal locations of the passenger seating positions , and sensors may deploy one or more airbags in an impact zone at variable rates based on the type ,  कोण और गंभीरता of प्रभाव ; the एयरबैग is designed to  only inflate in moderate to severe frontal crashes .
Airbags are normally designed with the intention of supplementing the protection of an occupant who is  correctly  restrained with a seatbelt .
Most designs are inflated through  pyrotechnic अर्थात्  and can only be operated once .
Newer side-impact airbag modules consist of compressed air cylinders that are triggered in the event of a side impact  गाडी  impact .
The first commercial  डिजाइन यहूद  introduced in passenger automobiles during the 1970s with limited success .
Broad commercial adoption of airbags  occurred in  many markets during the late 1980s and early 1990s with a driver airbag , and a front passenger airbag as well on some cars ; and many modern vehicles now include four or more units .
IRS tax forms are  प्रयुक्त लिये करदाताओं और tax-exempt  organizations to report financial information to the Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ) of the United States .
They are used to report income , calculate taxes to be paid to the federal government of the  United  States , and disclose other information as required by the Internal Revenue Code ( IRC ) .
There are over  800  various forms and schedules .
The best-known  of ये  is Form 1040 used by individuals .
In the United States , driver 's  पंक्तियां  are issued by each individual state ( including Washington , D.C. and territories ) , rather than the federal government because of the political concept of federalism .
Drivers are normally required to obtain a license from their state of residence and all states recognize each other 's  पंक्तियां लिये अस्थाई  visitors subject to normal age requirements .
A state may also  बर्खास्तगी  an individual 's driving privilege within its borders for traffic violations .
Many states  share a आम प्रणाली of  license classes , with some exceptions , and commercial license classes are standardized by federal regulation at 49 CFR part 383 .
China has been the source of many inventions , including the Four Great  आविष्कारों : papermaking , the  compass , gunpowder , and printing ( both woodblock and movable type ) .
The list below contains these and other  आविष्कारों  .
The Chinese invented technologies involving mechanics ,  hydraulics , और गणित लागू  to horology , metallurgy , astronomy , agriculture , engineering , music theory , craftsmanship , nautics , and warfare .
By the Warring States Period ( 403–221 BC ) , they had advanced metallurgic technology , including the blast furnace and cupola furnace , while the  finery forge और puddling प्रक्रम यहूद ज्ञात by the  Han Dynasty ( 202 BC – AD 220 ) .
A  sophisticated  economic system in China gave birth to inventions such as paper money during the Song Dynasty ( 960–1279 ) .
The invention of gunpowder by the 10th century led to an array of inventions such as the fire lance , land mine , naval mine  , हाथ तोपों ,  exploding cannonballs , multistage rocket , and rocket bombs with aerodynamic wings and explosive payloads .
With the navigational aid of the 11th-century  कम्पास और क्षमता to  steer at high sea with the 1st-century sternpost rudder , premodern Chinese sailors sailed as far as East Africa and Egypt .
In water-powered clockworks , the premodern  चाइनीज था प्रयुक्त the escapement यांत्रिकी चूंकि  the 8th century and the endless power-transmitting chain drive in the 11th century .
They also made large mechanical puppet theaters driven by waterwheels and  carriage पहियों  and wine-serving automatons driven by paddle wheel boats .
The contemporaneous Peiligang  और pengtoushan  cultures represent the oldest Neolithic cultures of China and were formed around 7000 BC .
Some of the first inventions of Neolithic , prehistoric China include semilunar  and rectangular stone  knives , stone hoes and spades , the cultivation of millet , rice and the soybean , the refinement of sericulture , the building of rammed earth structures with lime -plastered house floors , the creation of the potter 's wheel , the creation of pottery with cord-mat-basket designs , the creation of pottery tripods and pottery steamers , and the development of ceremonial vessels and scapulimancy for purposes of divination .
Francesca Bray argues that the domestication of the ox and buffalo during the Longshan culture ( c. 3000–c . 2000 BC ) period , the absence of Longshan-era irrigation or high-yield crops , full evidence of Longshan cultivation of  dry-land खाद्यान्न फसलों जिससे दिया ऊँची yields `` तभी जब the मृदा थी carefully cultivated , '' सुझाएँ कि the हल थी ज्ञात at तनिक by  the Longshan culture period and explains the high agricultural production yields which allowed the rise of Chinese civilization during the Shang Dynasty ( c. 1600–c . 1050 BC ) .
With later inventions such as the  multiple-tube बीज ड्रिल  and heavy moldboard iron plow , China 's agricultural output could sustain a much larger population .
For the purposes of this list , inventions are regarded as technological firsts developed in China , and as such does not include foreign technologies which the Chinese acquired through contact , such  as the पवनचक्की इससे the मध्य ईस्ट  or the telescope from Early modern Europe .
It also does not include technologies developed elsewhere and later invented separately by the Chinese , such as the  ओडोमीटर और  chain pump .
Scientific , mathematic or natural discoveries , changes in minor concepts of design or style and artistic innovations can not be regarded as  आविष्कारों और  do not appear on the list .
Gross domestic product in 2011 US dollars per capita , adjusted for inflation and purchasing power parity ( log scale ) from 1860 to 2011 , with population ( disk area ) for the US ( yellow )  , uk ( नारंगी ) , जापानी ( रेड )  , China ( red ) , and India ( blue ) .
Globalization ( or globalisation—see spelling  मतभेद  ) is the process of international integration arising from the interchange of world views , products , ideas , and other aspects of culture .
Put in simple   terms , globalization refers to processes that promote world-wide exchanges of national and cultural resources .
Advances in transportation and telecommunications infrastructure , including the rise of the Internet , are major factors in  वैश्वीकरण , generating  further interdependence of economic and cultural activities .
Though several scholars place the origins of globalization in modern times , others trace its history long  पहले the यूरोपीय आयु of डिस्कवरी और voyages to the नई संसार  .
Some even trace  the origins to the  third millennium BCE .
Since the beginning of the 20th century , the pace of globalization has intensified at  a रैपिड रेट  , especially during the Post Cold War era .
The term globalization   has been in increasing use since the mid-1980s and especially since the mid-1990s .
In 2000 , the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय मौद्रिक निधि ( imf  ) identified four basic aspects of globalization : trade and transactions , capital and investment movements , migration and movement of people and the dissemination of knowledge .
Further , environmental challenges such as climate   change , cross-boundary water and air pollution , and over-fishing of the ocean are linked with globalization .
Globalizing processes affect and are affected by business and work organization , economics , socio-cultural resources , and  the प्राकृतिक  environment .
The Replacements is a 2000 American  खेल कॉमेडी फिल्मी निर्देशित  by Howard Deutch .
It stars Keanu  रीव्स , जीन hackman  , and Brooke Langton .
An American Airlines aircraft takes off from  dallas/fort  Worth International Airport .
This  विमानक्षेत्र is the  airline 's largest hub .
American Airlines flies to 79 domestic destinations and 78 international destinations in  48 देशों  .
( as of  दिसम्बर  2012 )
The list includes the city , country , the codes of the International Air Transport Association ( IATA airport code ) and the International Civil Aviation Organization ( ICAO airport code ) , and the  विमानक्षेत्र 's नाम , साथ  the airline 's hubs , focus cities and seasonal destinations marked .
The list also contains destinations no longer  परोसा by the एयरलाइन  , which are marked as terminated destinations .
It does not  शामिल गंतव्यों परोसा लिये अमरीकी एयरलाइंस  by its regional affiliates American Eagle Airlines , Executive Airlines , and AmericanConnection .
`` Day-O ( The Banana Boat Song ) '' is a traditional Jamaican mento folk song , the best-known version  of जिससे थी सुंग by हैरी belafonte और  an alternate version interspersed with another Jamaican folksong , Hill and Gully Rider , by Dame Shirley Bassey .
Despite the song 's mento influences , `` Day-O ( The  banana नाव सोंग ) '' is widely  known as an example of calypso music .
It is a work  सोंग , इससे the पाइंट of दृश्य  of dock workers working the night shift loading bananas onto ships .
Daylight has come , the shift is over and they want their work to be counted up so that   they can go home .
World War I ( WWI ) was a global war  केंद्रित in  Europe that began on 28 July 1914 and lasted until 11 November 1918 .
It was predominantly called the World  युद्ध or the ग्रेट युद्ध  from its occurrence until the start of World War II in 1939 , and the First World War or World War I thereafter .
It involved all the world 's great powers , which were assembled in  दो opposing alliances  : the Allies ( based on the Triple Entente of the United Kingdom , France and Russia ) and the Central Powers ( originally the Triple Alliance of Germany , Austria-Hungary and Italy ; but , as Austria–Hungary had taken the offensive against the agreement , Italy did not enter into the war ) .
These alliances were both reorganised and expanded as more nations entered the war : Italy , Japan and the United States joined the Allies , and the Ottoman Empire and  Bulgaria the  Central Powers .
Ultimately , more than 70 million military personnel , including 60  लाख europeans , यहूद mobilised  in one of the largest wars in history .
More than 9 million combatants were killed , largely because of technological advancements that led to enormous increases in the lethality of weapons  बगैर  corresponding improvements in protection or mobility .
It was the fifth- deadliest conflict in world history , subsequently paving the  रास्ता लिये  various political changes , such as revolutions in many of the nations involved .
One of the long-term causes of the war was the resurgence of imperialism in the foreign  नीतियों of the ग्रेट शक्तियां  of Europe .
More immediately , the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria , the heir to the throne of Austria-Hungary , on 28 June 1914 by Yugoslav nationalist Gavrilo Princip in Sarajevo triggered a diplomatic crisis when  austria-hungary subsequently वितरित an ultimatum to the किंगडम  of Serbia .
Several alliances formed over the previous decades were  invoked  .
Within weeks , the major powers were at war  और , via उनके  colonies , the conflict soon spread around the world .
On 28 July , the Austro-Hungarians fired the first shots of the war as preparation  लिये the आक्रमण  of Serbia .
While the Russians mobilised , the Germans invaded neutral Belgium and  ध्वज on the रास्ता to  France , providing a casus belli for Britain 's declaration of war against Germany .
After the German march on Paris was  brought to a halt—the so-called चमत्कार  of the Marne —the Western Front settled into a static battle of attrition with a trench line that changed little until 1917 .
On the Eastern Front , the Russian army was successful against the Austro-Hungarians , but was stopped in  इसके आक्रमण of  East Prussia by the Germans .
In November the Ottoman Empire joined the war  , खोलने up fronts in the  Caucasus , Mesopotamia and the Sinai .
Italy and Bulgaria  went to war  in 1915 and Romania in 1916 .
In Russia , the tsar 's government collapsed in March 1917 and a subsequent revolution in November brought the  russians to शर्तें साथ the सेंट्रल  Powers .
After a 1918 German offensive along the western front , the Allies drove back the Germans in a  श्रेणी of कामयाब offensives और  American forces began entering the trenches .
जर्मनी , जिससे था  its own trouble with revolutionaries , agreed to an armistice on 11 November 1918 .
The war ended in  विजय लिये  the Allies .
Events on the home  fronts यहूद as उग्र as on the  battle fronts , as the participants tried to mobilize their manpower and economic resources to fight a total war .
By the end of  the युद्ध , चार प्रमुख  imperial powers—the German , Russian , Austro-Hungarian and Ottoman empires—ceased to exist .
The successor states of the former two lost a great amount of  territory , जबकि  the latter two were dismantled entirely .
The map of central Europe was redrawn into  अनेक छोटी  states .
The League of Nations was formed in the hope of preventing  another ऐसे  conflict .
The European  राष्ट्रवाद शाखित by the युद्ध और the ब्रेकअप of  empires , the repercussions of Germany 's defeat and problems with the Treaty of Versailles are agreed to be factors contributing to World War II .
Nurse Jackie is an American series that premiered on June 8 , 2009 , on Showtime ,  फिल्म  Central and The Movie Network .
The series stars Edie Falco as the title character Jackie Peyton , an emergency department nurse at All Saints  ' हॉस्पिटल in नई  York City .
For Jackie , `` Every day  is a ऊँची तार  act of juggling patients , doctors , fellow nurses and her own indiscretions . ''
Keeping Up with the Kardashians ( often referred to simply as The Kardashians )  is an अमरीकी  reality television series that premiered on October 14 , 2007 , on E ! .
It follows the lives of the Kardashian/Jenner  परिवार , सहित बहनों  Kourtney , Kim , and Khloé Kardashian .
The series ' success has led to the spin-offs Kourtney and Kim Take New York , Khloé & Lamar , Kourtney  और khloé लो मियामी , और कोर्टनी और  Kim Take Miami .
Afghanistan ( ; ; ) , officially  the इस्लामी गणतंत्र of अफगानिस्तान ,  is a landlocked sovereign state forming part of South Asia , Central Asia , and to some extent Western Asia .
It has a population of around  30  million inhabiting an area of approximately , making it the 42nd most populous and 41st largest nation in the world .
It is bordered by Pakistan in the south and the east , Iran in the west , Turkmenistan ,  उज़्बेकिस्तान और ताजिकिस्तान in  the north , and China in the far northeast .
Afghanistan has been an ancient focal point of  the रेशा सड़क और  human migration .
Archaeologists  have मिला प्रमाण  of human habitation from as far back as the Middle Paleolithic .
Urban civilization may  have begun in  the area as early as 3,000 to 2,000 BCE .
Sitting at an important geostrategic location that connects the  Middle  East culture with Central Asia and the Indian subcontinent , the land has been home to various peoples through the ages and witnessed many military campaigns , notably by Alexander the Great , Genghis Khan , and in modern era Western forces .
The land also served as a source from which the Greco-Bactrians  , Kushans ,  Hephthalites , Saffarids , Ghaznavids , Ghorids , Khiljis , Timurids , Mughals , Durranis , and others have risen to form major empires .
The political history of the modern state of Afghanistan begins in 1709 , when the  hotaki राजवंश थी स्थापित in कांधार  followed by Ahmad Shah Durrani 's rise to power in 1747 .
In the late 19th century , Afghanistan became a buffer state in the  ``  Great Game `` between the British and Russian empires .
Following the 1919 Anglo-Afghan War , King Amanullah began a European style modernization of the country but  थी रोका  by the ultra-conservatives .
During the Cold War , after the withdrawal of the British from neighboring India in 1947 , the  संयुक्त राज्य और the सोवियत संघ began spreading प्रभाव  in Afghanistan , which led to a bloody war between the US-backed mujahideen forces and the Soviet-backed Afghan government in which over a million Afghans lost their lives .
This was followed by the 1990s civil war , the rise and fall of the  extremist तालिबान सरकारी और the 2001–present  war .
In December 2001 , the United Nations Security Council authorized the creation  of the अंतरराष्ट्रीय सुरक्षा  Assistance Force ( ISAF ) to help maintain security in Afghanistan and assist the Karzai administration .
Three decades of war made Afghanistan one of the world 's most  खतरनाक देशों , सहित the largest निर्माता of  refugees and asylum seekers .
While the international community is rebuilding war-torn Afghanistan , terrorist groups such as the Haqqani Network and Hezbi Islami are actively involved in a nationwide  तालिबान -led उग्रवाद  , which includes hundreds of assassinations and suicide attacks .
according to the संयुक्त  Nations , the insurgents were responsible for 80 % of civilian casualties in 2011 and 2012 .
The American Civil War (  acw  ) , also known as the War between the States or simply the Civil War ( see naming ) , was a civil war fought from 1861 to 1865 between the United States ( the `` Union '' or the `` North '' ) and several Southern slave states that declared their secession and formed the Confederate States of America ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ) .
The war had its origin in the issue of  गुलामी , विशेषकर the एक्सटेंशन of  slavery into the western territories .
विदेशी शक्तियां किया नहीं intervene .
After four years of bloody combat that left over 600,000 soldiers  मुर्दे और नष्ट much  of the South 's infrastructure , the Confederacy collapsed , slavery was abolished , and the difficult Reconstruction process of restoring national unity and guaranteeing rights to the freed slaves began .
In the 1860 presidential election , Republicans , led by Abraham Lincoln , opposed expanding slavery into United States  ' territories  .
Lincoln won , but before his  inauguration on March  4 , 1861 , seven cotton-based slave states formed the Confederacy .
Outgoing Democratic President James Buchanan and  the  incoming Republicans rejected secession as illegal .
Lincoln 's   inaugural address declared his administration would not initiate civil war .
Eight  बाकी  slave states continued to reject calls for secession .
Confederate forces seized numerous federal forts within territory claimed  by the confederacy  .
A Peace Conference failed to find a  सुलह ,  and both sides prepared for war .
The Confederates assumed that European  देशों यहूद so निर्भर on ``  King Cotton `` that they would intervene ; none did and none recognized the new Confederate States of America .
Hostilities began on April 12 , 1861 , when Confederate forces fired upon Fort Sumter , a key fort held by Union troops in  दक्षिण कैरोलिना  .
Lincoln called for each state to provide  सैनिकों to retake the फोर्ट  ; consequently , four more slave states joined the Confederacy , bringing their total to eleven .
The  संघ जल्द  controlled the border states and established a naval blockade that crippled the southern economy .
The Eastern Theater was  inconclusive  in 1861–62 .
The autumn 1862 Confederate  अभियान into मेरीलैंड ( a संघ  state ) ended with Confederate retreat at the Battle of Antietam , dissuading British intervention .
Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation , which made ending  गुलामी  a war goal .
To the west , by summer 1862 the Union destroyed the Confederate river navy , then much of their western armies , and the Union at Vicksburg  विभाजित the  Confederacy in two at the Mississippi River .
In 1863 , Robert E. Lee 's Confederate  incursion  north ended at the Battle of Gettysburg .
पश्चिमी सफलताओं led to  Ulysses S. Grant command of all Union armies in 1864 .
In the Western Theater , William T. Sherman drove east to capture Atlanta and marched to the  समुद्र , destroying confederate  infrastructure along the way .
The Union marshaled the resources and manpower to attack  the  Confederacy from all directions , and could afford to fight battles of attrition through the Overland Campaign towards Richmond , the Confederate capital .
The defending Confederate army failed , leading to Lee 's  आत्मसमर्पण to ग्रान्ट at  Appomattox Court House on April 9 , 1865 .
the अमरीकी  Civil War was one of the earliest true industrial wars .
Railroads , the telegraph ,  steamships , और  mass-produced weapons were employed extensively .
The mobilization of civilian factories , mines , shipyards , banks , transportation and food supplies all  foreshadowed  World War I .
It remains the deadliest war in American history , resulting in the deaths of an estimated 750,000 soldiers and an  undetermined क्रमांक of civilian हताहत  .
Historian John Huddleston estimates the death  टोल at टेन प्रतिशत of  all Northern males 20–45 years old , and 30 percent of all Southern white males aged 18–40 .
Cost of goods sold ( COGS ) refer to the inventory costs of those goods a business has  sold  during a particular period .
Costs are associated with particular goods using one of several formulas , including specific identification , first-in  first-out ( FIFO ) ,  or average cost .
Costs include  सब लागत of खरीदें  , costs of conversion and other costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition .
Costs of goods made by the business include material  , मजदूर  , and allocated overhead .
The costs  of those goods नहीं yet बेची  are deferred as costs of inventory until the inventory is sold or written down in value .
Freak  lunchbox  candy store in Halifax , Nova Scotia
A confectionery store ( more commonly  referred  to as a sweet shop in the United Kingdom , a candy store in the North America , or a lolly shop in Australia ) sells confectionery and is usually targeted to children .
Most confectionery stores are filled with an assortment of  मिठाई दूर larger than a पंसारी  or convenience store could accommodate .
They often offer a selection of old fashioned treats , and sweets  इससे अलग  countries .
Very often  अपरिवर्तित in लेआउट चूंकि उनके  inception , confectioneries are known for their warming and nostalgic feel .
The village of Pateley Bridge claims to have the oldest  confectionery स्टोर  in England .
The  oldest  sweet shop in England , in the village of Pateley Bridge
Oklahoma ( ) ( Pawnee : Uukuhuúwa , Cayuga : Gahnawiyoˀgeh ) is a state located in West  दक्षिण सेंट्रल संयुक्त  States .
Oklahoma is the 20th most extensive and the 28th most  populous of the 50 संयुक्त  States .
The state 's name is derived from the Choctaw words okla and humma , meaning `` red people '' , and it is  ज्ञात informally by इसके उपनाम  , The Sooner State .
Formed by the  संयोजन of  Oklahoma Territory and Indian Territory on November 16 , 1907 , Oklahoma was the 46th state to enter the union .
Its residents are known as Oklahomans or ,  informally `` okies '' , और  its capital and largest city is Oklahoma City .
A major producer of natural gas , oil , and agriculture , Oklahoma relies on an economic base of aviation ,  उर्जा , दूरसंचार  , and biotechnology .
It has one of the fastest growing economies in the nation , ranking  among  the top states in per capita income growth and gross domestic product growth .
Oklahoma City and Tulsa serve as Oklahoma 's primary economic anchors , with nearly two thirds of Oklahomans living  भीतर उनके महानगर  statistical areas .
साथ छोटी पहाड़  ranges , prairie , mesas , and eastern forests , most of Oklahoma lies in the Great Plains and the U.S . Interior Highlands —a region especially prone to severe weather .
In addition to having a prevalence  of  English , German , Scottish , Irish and Native American ancestry , more than 25 Native American languages are spoken in Oklahoma , second only to California .
Oklahoma is located on a confluence of three major American cultural regions and  historically परोसा as a  route for cattle drives , a destination for southern settlers , and a government-sanctioned territory for Native Americans .
stacked  and standing car tires
A tire ( or tyre ) is  a ring-shaped covering  that fits around a wheel 's rim to protect it and enable better vehicle performance .
Most tires , such as those for automobiles and bicycles , provide traction between the vehicle and the road  while providing a  flexible cushion that absorbs shock .
The materials of modern  न्यूमेटिक  tires are synthetic rubber , natural rubber , fabric and wire , along with carbon black and other chemical compounds .
They  consist  of a tread and a body .
The tread provides traction while the body provides  containment लिये a मात्रा  of compressed air .
Before rubber was developed , the first  संस्करण  of tires were simply bands of metal that fitted around wooden wheels to prevent wear and tear .
Early rubber  टायर  were solid ( not pneumatic ) .
Today , the majority of tires are pneumatic inflatable structures , comprising a doughnut-shaped body of cords and wires encased in rubber and generally  भर साथ संपीडित एयर to रूप  an inflatable cushion .
Pneumatic tires are used on many types of vehicles , including cars ,  साइकिल , मोटरसाइकिल , ट्रक  , earthmovers , and aircraft .
Metal tires are still used on locomotives and railcars , and solid rubber ( or other polymer ) tires are still used in various non-automotive   applications , such as some casters , carts , lawnmowers , and wheelbarrows .
Dr. Joseph Warren ( June  11 , 1741 – जून  17 , 1775 ) was an American doctor who played a leading role in American Patriot organizations in Boston in early days of the American Revolution , eventually serving as president of the revolutionary Massachusetts Provincial Congress .
Warren enlisted Paul Revere and William Dawes on April 18 , 1775 , to leave Boston and spread the alarm that the British garrison in Boston was setting out to raid  the कस्बा of concord और गिरफ़्तार विद्रोही  leaders John Hancock and Samuel Adams .
Warren participated in the next day  's  Battles of Lexington and Concord , which are commonly considered to be the opening engagements of the American Revolutionary War .
वारेन था महरूम  commissioned a Major General in the colony 's militia shortly before the June 17 , 1775 Battle of Bunker Hill .
Rather than exercising his rank , Warren served in the battle as a private soldier , and was killed in combat when British troops stormed  the redoubt atop  Breed 's Hill .
His death , immortalized in John Trumbull 's painting , The Death of General Warren at the Battle of Bunker 's Hill , June 17 , 1775 , galvanized the rebel forces ,  और he रै महरूम  memorialized in many place names in the United States .
STM image of self-assembled supramolecular  जंजीरों of the सशुल्क  semiconductor Quinacridone on Graphite .
An organic semiconductor is an organic material with semiconductor  गुण , कि is , साथ an  electrical conductivity between that of insulators and that of metals .
सिंगल अणुओं , छोटी  chain ( oligomers ) and organic polymers can be semiconductive .
Semiconducting small  अणुओं ( खुशबूदार hydrocarbons  ) include the polycyclic aromatic compounds pentacene , anthracene , and rubrene .
Polymeric organic semiconductors include poly ( 3-hexylthiophene ) , poly ( p-phenylene  vinylene ) , as खूब as  polyacetylene and its derivatives .
There are two major overlapping classes of  सशुल्क  semiconductors .
These are organic charge-transfer complexes  और विभिन्न linear-backbone conductive  polymers derived from polyacetylene .
रैखिक रीढ़ सशुल्क  semiconductors include polyacetylene itself and its derivatives polypyrrole , and polyaniline .
At least locally , charge-transfer complexes often exhibit similar conduction  mechanisms to अकार्बनिक  semiconductors .
Such mechanisms arise from the  उपस्थिति of छेद  and electron conduction layers separated by a band gap .
While such classic mechanisms are important locally ,  as साथ अकार्बनिक amorphous  semiconductors , tunnelling , localized states , mobility gaps , and phonon -assisted hopping also significantly contribute to conduction , particularly in polyacetylenes .
Like  अकार्बनिक semiconductors  , organic semiconductors can be doped .
Organic  semiconductors  susceptible to doping such as polyaniline ( Ormecon ) and are also known as organic metals .
Typical current carriers in organic semiconductors are holes and electrons in  π-bonds  .
Almost all organic solids are  insulators  .
But when their constituent molecules have  π-conjugate प्रणालियों , electrons can मूव  via π-electron cloud overlaps , especially by hopping , tunnelling and related mechanisms .
Polycyclic  खुशबूदार hydrocarbons और phthalocyanine  salt crystals are examples of this type of organic semiconductor .
Mainly due to low  गतिशीलता  , even unpaired electrons may be stable in charge-transfer complexes .
Such  unpaired  electrons can function as current carriers .
This type of semiconductor is also obtained by  pairing an इलेक्ट्रॉन दाता  molecule with an electron acceptor molecule .
Female ejaculation is the expulsion of fluid by human females from the paraurethral ducts  through और around the  female urethra during or before an orgasm .
It is also known colloquially as gushing or squirting , although these  हैं माना to be  different phenomena in some research publications .
The exact source and nature of the fluid continue to be a topic of debate among medical professionals ,  जिससे is  also related to doubts over the existence of the G-Spot .
The FIFA Women 's World Cup is an international association football competition contested by the senior women 's national teams of the members of Fédération Internationale de Football Association  ( FIFA ) ,  the sport 's global governing body .
The championship has been  awarded  every four years since the inaugural tournament in 1991 .
Japan won the 2011 tournament in a  दंड गोलीबारी  .
The current format of the tournament involves 16 teams competing for the title at venues within the  मेजबान स्वदेश ( s ) over a काल of परिचय तीन  weeks ; – this phase is often called the World Cup Finals .
A qualification phase , which currently takes place over the preceding three  सालो , is प्रयुक्त to determine जिससे टीमों  qualify for the tournament together with the host nation ( s ) .
The FIFA Women 's World Cup is recognized as the most important International competition in women 's football and is played amongst women 's national football  टीमों of the सदस्य राज्य of फीफा , the खेल  's global governing body .
The first Women 's World Cup tournament , named the Women 's World Championship , was held in 1991 ,  sixty-one  years after the men 's first FIFA World Cup tournament in 1930 .
The  छह संसार कप tournaments  have been won by four different national teams .
The next World Cup will  be hosted  by Canada in 2015 .
Scorpions is a young adult novel written by Walter Dean Myers , first published in the  संयुक्त राज्य by हार्पर  & Row on June 20 , 1988 .
Front page of a  17th सदी यहूदी  Bible by Joseph Athias , now at Beth Hatefutsoth , Israel
'son of man ' is the अनुवाद  of various Hebrew and Greek phrases used in both the Hebrew Bible and the New Testament .
It has diverse meanings ,  ranging  from a normal human being to a prophesied eternal , divine ruler .
The Hebrew expression `` son of man '' ( בן–אדם i.e . ben-'adam ) appears one  सौ और सात टाइम्स in  the Hebrew Bible .
This is the  सबसे आम  Hebrew construction for the singular but is used mostly in Ezekiel ( 93 times ) and 14 times elsewhere .
In thirty two cases the phrase appears in intermediate plural form ``  बेटे of  men '' , i.e . human beings .
As  generally  interpreted by Jews , it denotes humankind generally .
In the Koine Greek of the New Testament , ``  the बेटे of man '' is invariably  used as `` ὁ υἱὸς τοὺ ἀνθρώπου '' with a definite article .
The use of the definite article in  `` the बेटे of man '' in the  Christian gospels is novel , and before its use there , no records of its use in any of the surviving Greek documents of antiquity exist .
Geza Vermes has stated that `` the Son of man '' in the Christian gospels is unrelated to  यहूदी बाइबल usages  .
In  ईसाई उपयोग , नापसंद the बेटे of परमेश्वर शीर्षक , जिससे  has been an essential element of Christian creeds since the Apostolic age , the proclamation of `` Jesus as the Son of man '' has never been an article of faith in Christianity .
The interpretation of the use of `` the Son of man '' in the New Testament has remained challenging and after 150 years of  बहस no सर्वसम्मति on the समस्या रै  emerged among scholars .
निपुण of foxhounds लीड the फ़ील्ड इससे powderham किला in देवों , इंग्लैण्ड , साथ the hounds in सामने .
Fox hunting is an activity involving the tracking , chase , and sometimes  हत्या  of a fox , traditionally a red fox , by trained foxhounds or other scent hounds , and a group of unarmed followers led by a master of foxhounds , who follow the hounds on foot or on horseback .
Fox hunting originated in the form  practised जबतक  recently in the United Kingdom in the 16th century , but is practised all over the world , including in Australia , Canada , France , Ireland , Italy and the United States .
In Australia , the term also refers to the hunting of foxes with firearms  समान  to spotlighting or deer hunting .
In much of the world hunting in general is understood to relate to any game animals or weapons ( e.g. , deer hunting with bow and arrow ) ; in  ब्रिटेन और आयरलैंड , `` शिकार '' बगैर योग्यता  implies fox hunting ( or other forms of hunting with hounds- beagling , stag hunting , mink hunting , drag hunting or hunting the clean boot ) as described here .
The sport is controversial  ,  particularly in the UK , where it was banned in Scotland in 2002 , and in England and Wales in November 2004 ( law enforced from February 2005 ) , though shooting foxes as vermin remained legal .
Proponents of fox hunting view it as an important part of rural  संस्कृति  and useful for reasons of conservation and pest control , while opponents argue that it is cruel and unnecessary .
Tobacco advertising is the advertising of tobacco products or use ( typically cigarette smoking ) by the  तम्बाकू उद्योग through a किस्में of मीडिया  including sponsorship , particularly of sporting events .
It is now one of the most highly  regulated फ़ॉर्म  of marketing .
Some or all forms of tobacco advertising are banned in many  देशों  .
Bally Technologies , Inc. is a manufacturer of slot machines and  अन्य गेमिंग प्रौद्योगिकी आधारित in  Las Vegas , Nevada .
The company was founded in 1968 as Advanced  पेटेंट प्रौद्योगिकी  .
It eventually changed its name to Alliance Gaming and acquired , in 1996  , बल्ली गेमिंग अंतरराष्ट्रीय  , a former division of Bally Manufacturing .
In 2006 , the entire company adopted the Bally  नाम , a ट्रेडमार्क  that originated in 1932 by the Bally Manufacturing Corporation .
Gustave Doré 's engravings  illustrated  the Divine Comedy ( 1861–1868 ) ; here , Dante is lost in Canto 1 of the Inferno .
Inferno ( Italian for  `` नरक `` )  is the first part of Dante Alighieri 's 14th-century epic poem Divine Comedy .
It is followed   by Purgatorio and Paradiso .
It is an allegory telling of  the यात्रा of दांते  through Hell , guided by the Roman poet Virgil .
In the poem , Hell is depicted as nine circles  of  suffering located within the Earth .
Allegorically , the Divine Comedy  represents  the journey of the soul towards God , with the Inferno describing the recognition and rejection of sin .
Smirnoff is a brand of vodka owned and  उत्पादित by the  British company Diageo .
The Smirnoff brand began with a  वोदका  distillery founded in Moscow by Pyotr Arsenievich Smirnov ( 1831–1898 ) .
It  is  now distributed in 130 countries .
It is produced in several countries including India , Ireland , Italy , the United Kingdom and the  संयुक्त  States .
Smirnoff products include vodka  , flavoured  vodka , and malt beverages .
In March 2006 , Diageo North America claimed that  स्मरनॉफ वोदका  was the best-selling distilled spirit brand in the world .
Big Brown ( foaled April 10 , 2005 in   Kentucky ) is a retired champion American Thoroughbred racehorse and winner of the 2008 Kentucky Derby and 2008 Preakness Stakes .
Bred by Dr. Gary B. Knapp 's  monticule खेतो in lexington  , Kentucky , he won his first five race starts .
he थी sired by ग्रेड iii विजेता boundary , a बेटे of उत्तर अमरीकी चैंपियन sire danzig , a बेटे of उत्तरी नर्तकी  .
Big Brown 's dam was Mien , also a granddaughter of Northern  नर्तकी through उसके sire  , Nureyev .
The Serenity Prayer is the common  name  for an originally untitled prayer by the American theologian Reinhold Niebuhr ( 1892–1971 ) .
It has been adopted by Alcoholics Anonymous  और अन्य  twelve-step programs .
The best-known form is : God , grant me the serenity to accept the  बाते i can नहीं change,
The courage to  बदलें the बाते  I can,
And wisdom to know  the अंतर  .
The Declaration and Resolves of the First Continental Congress ( also known as the  घोषणा of औपनिवेशिक अधिकारों  , or the Declaration of Rights ) , was a statement adopted by the First Continental Congress on October 14 , 1774 , in response to the Intolerable Acts passed by the British Parliament .
The Declaration outlined colonial objections to the Intolerable Acts , listed a colonial bill  of अधिकारों , और provided  a detailed list of grievances .
It was similar  to  the Declaration of Rights and Grievances , passed by the Stamp Act Congress a decade earlier .
The Declaration concluded with an outline of Congress 's plans : to enter into a boycott of British trade ( the Continental Association ) until their grievances were redressed , to publish  पता to the लोगों of ग्रेट ब्रिटेन और  British America , and to send a petition to the King .
Pulse pressure is the pressure  कि is लगा  when feeling the pulse .
Measured in millimeters of mercury ( mmHg ) , the pressure difference between the systolic and  diastolic pressures is the दबाव बदलें  to create the pulse , which is the pulse pressure .
If resting blood pressure is ( systolic/diastolic ) 120/80  millimeters of पारा ( mmhg  ) , pulse pressure is 40 .
The Hills is a reality television series which originally  aired on एमटीवी इससे may 31 , 2006 जबतक  July 13 , 2010 .
The show uses a reality television format , following the personal lives of several young adults living in Los  एंजिल्स , कैलिफ़ोर्निया , लकिन tends towards a कथा  format more commonly found in scripted genres such as soap operas .
The series originally followed the personal life of former Laguna Beach star Lauren Conrad and  उसके मित्रों  ' new lives in Los Angeles .
After five seasons , Conrad left the series and was replaced by another former Laguna Beach star ,  kristin cavallari , शुरूआत in  the second half of the fifth season .
the  series concluded at the end of the sixth season .
Entertainment Weekly ranked The Hills 82nd on their list of `` The 100 Best Shows of the  पिछला 25 सालो , '' stating कि the श्रेणी  was a `` New Classic . ''
एओएल tv पुकारा  it TV 's Biggest Guilty Pleasure .
The series premiered in syndication in the fall of 2009 alongside Laguna Beach  :  The Real Orange County .
In poker , bad beat is  a  subjective term for a hand in which a player with what appear to be strong cards nevertheless loses .
It most often occurs  जहाँ एक खिलाड़ी bets the clearly  stronger hand and their opponent makes a poor call that eventually `` hits '' and wins .
There is no consensus among poker players as to what exactly constitutes a bad beat and often players will disagree about whether a particular hand  थी a ख़राब ताल  .
The  goldfish ( carassius  auratus auratus ) is a freshwater fish in the family Cyprinidae of order Cypriniformes .
It  थी एक of the earliest  fish to be domesticated , and is one of the most commonly kept aquarium fish .
A relatively small member of the carp family ( which also includes the koi carp and the crucian carp ) , the goldfish is a domesticated version of a  less-colorful कार्प ( carassius  auratus ) native to east Asia .
It was  पहला domesticated in चीन अधिक  than a thousand years ago , and several distinct breeds have since been developed .
Goldfish breeds vary greatly in size , body shape , fin configuration and coloration ( various combinations  of श्वेत , पीला  , orange , red , brown , and black are known ) .
Uncooked  rouladen
Rouladen ( or  rinderroulade  , singular : roulade ) is a German meat roulade usually consisting of bacon , onions , mustard and pickles wrapped in thinly sliced beef which is then cooked .
In some countries , the roulade is also known as ``  बीफ ज़ैतून  '' .
बीफ or वील is प्रयुक्त as मांस  though some food scholars tend to believe that the original version was probably venison or pork , and pork is still popular in some areas .
The beef rouladen as we know them  आज have become  popular over the last century .
The cut is usually topside beef or   silverside since this is the cheaper cut .
The more expensive version would be the round steak , also   known as rump steak .
The meat is cut into large ,  पतला स्लाइस  .
The filling is a mixture of smoked and cooked pork belly , chopped onions and  कटा अचार ( gurken ) जिससे is  at times varied by adding minced meat , sausage meat , pine nuts and mustard .
The mixture varies from  प्रदेश to  region .
rouladen हैं  traditionally served for dinner .
रेड वाइन  is often served with this dish .
Typical  eukaryotic  cell .
Cellular respiration is the set of the metabolic reactions and processes that take  प्लेस in the कोशिकाएं of जीवों to बदलें biochemical  energy from nutrients into adenosine triphosphate ( ATP ) , and then release waste products .
the प्रतिक्रियाएँ शामिल in श्वसन  are catabolic reactions , which break large molecules into smaller ones , releasing energy in the process as weak so-called `` high-energy '' bonds are replaced by stronger bonds in the products .
Respiration is one of the key ways a cell gains useful energy  to ईंधन सेल्यूलर  activity .
Cellular respiration is considered an  ऊष्माक्षेपी रेडॉक्स प्रतिक्रिया  .
The overall  प्रतिक्रिया is टूटा  into many smaller ones when it occurs in the body , most of which are redox reactions themselves .
Although technically , cellular respiration is a combustion reaction ,  it clearly करता  not resemble one when it occurs in a living cell .
This difference is because it  occurs in  many separate steps .
While the overall reaction is a combustion reaction , no single reaction that  comprises it  is a combustion reaction .
Nutrients that are commonly used by animal and plant cells in respiration include sugar , amino acids and fatty acids , and a common oxidizing agent ( electron acceptor )  is molecular oxygen ( O2  ) .
The energy stored in ATP ( its third phosphate group is weakly bonded to the rest of the molecule and is cheaply broken allowing stronger bonds to form , thereby transferring energy for use by the cell ) can then be used to drive processes requiring  उर्जा , सहित जैवसंश्लेषण  , locomotion or transportation of molecules across cell membranes .
Countries by 2011 GDP ( nominal ) according to the  सीआईए  World Factbook .
This article includes a list of countries in the world sorted by their gross domestic product ( GDP ) , the market value of all final goods and services from a nation  in a  given year .
The GDP dollar estimates presented here are calculated  at मार्केट or सरकारी  official exchange rates .
Several economies which are not considered to be  देशों ( संसार , the eu , और कुछ  dependent territories ) are included in the lists because they appear in the sources .
These   economies are not ranked in the charts here , but are listed where applicable .
The figures presented here do not take into account differences in the cost of living in different countries , and  the परिणाम  can vary greatly from one year to another based on fluctuations in the exchange rates of the country 's currency .
Such fluctuations may change a country 's ranking  इससे  one year to the next , even though they often make little or no difference to the standard of living of its population .
Therefore these figures should be  प्रयुक्त  with caution .
कुछ countries/regions  may have citizens which are on average wealthy .
These  countries/regions  could appear in this list as having a small GDP .
This would be because the country/region listed  रै a छोटी जनसांख्यिकी , और इसलिए छोटी  total economy ; the GDP is calculated as the population times the wealth per capita .
comparisons of नेशनल माल हैं भी अक्सर बना on the आधार of खरीदना शक्ति पैरिटी ( ppp ) , to समायोजन लिये मतभेद in the लागत of जीना in अलग देशों .
( See List of  देशों  by GDP ( PPP ) )
ppp largely removes the एक्सचेंज रेट प्रॉब्लम , लकिन रै इसके अपना कमियां ; it करता नहीं प्रतिबिंबित the मान of आर्थिक आउटपुट in अंतरराष्ट्रीय व्यापार , और it भी requires अधिक estimation than नाममात्र जीडीपी .
On the whole , PPP per capita  आंकड़े हैं अधिक  narrowly spread than nominal GDP per capita figures .
The first list includes data compiled by the United  राष्ट्र आंकडे प्रभाग  for 2011 .
The second list largely includes data ( estimate ) compiled by the International  मौद्रिक निधि  for 2012 .
The third list shows the World Bank 's mostly 2011 estimates , and  the चौथी  list includes mostly 2012 estimates from the CIA World Factbook .
Lapping is a machining process , in which two surfaces are   rubbed together with an abrasive between them , by hand movement or by way of a machine .
इस can लो दो फ़ॉर्म .
The first type of lapping ( traditionally called grinding ) , typically involves rubbing a brittle material such as glass against a surface such as iron or glass itself ( also known as the `` lap '' or grinding  औजार ) साथ an अक्खड़  such as aluminum oxide , jeweller 's rouge , optician 's rouge , emery , silicon carbide , diamond , etc. , in between them .
This produces microscopic conchoidal fractures as the abrasive rolls about between the  दो सतहों  and removes material from both .
The other form of lapping involves a softer material such as pitch  or a सिरेमिक  for the lap , which is `` charged '' with the abrasive .
The lap is  तब प्रयुक्त to काटें  a harder material—the workpiece .
the अक्खड़ embeds  within the softer material which holds it and permits it to score across and cut the harder material .
Taken to a finer limit ,  इस होगा उपज a polished सतह  such as with a polishing cloth on an automobile , or a polishing cloth or polishing pitch upon glass or steel .
Taken to the ultimate limit , with the aid of accurate interferometry and  specialized पॉलिशिंग मशीने or skilled  hand polishing , lensmakers can produce surfaces that are flat to better than 30 nanometers .
This is one twentieth of the wavelength of light from the commonly  प्रयुक्त 632.8  nm helium neon laser light source .
Surfaces this flat can be molecularly bonded ( optically contacted ) by bringing them together under the  सही शर्तें  .
( This is not the  वही as the wringing प्रभाव of जोहानसन  blocks , although it is similar ) .
The term `` America 's Team '' is a popular nickname in the United States that  refers to the डलास cowboys in the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल  League .
The nickname originated with the team 's 1978 highlight film , where the narrator opens with the following introduction : The  पद is पहचाना और प्रायः प्रयुक्त  by media outlets , including ESPN , Yahoo ! , HBO Sports , and Sports Illustrated .
My Babysitter 's a Vampire ( French : Ma gardienne est un vampire ) is a 2011 Canadian television series , based on the television film of the  वही  name .
In Canada ,  the श्रेणी premiered in फ्रेंच  on Télétoon on February 28 , 2011 , in English on Teletoon on March 14 , 2011 , and on Disney Channel in the United States on June 27 , 2011 .
The show was created by Fresh TV , creators of  6teen और कुल  Drama .
The show follows Ethan Morgan ( Matthew Knight ) , who , in the television film , learns that his babysitter Sarah ( Vanessa Morgan   ) is a vampire .
In the film , he learns he is able to have visions and his best friend  बेनी वीयर ( atticus मिशेल  ) is a spellmaster .
The series follows the three as they take on supernatural forces and have adventures , with occasional help from fellow  vampires रोरी ( cameron कैनेडी  ) and Erica ( Kate Todd ) , while dealing with the troubles of regular high school life .
A second  ऋतु थी पुष्टि to प्रारंभ उत्पादन in सितंबर 2011 और it पहला premiered on डिज़्नी चैनल on जून 29 , 2012 , it premiered on teletoon सितंबर 6 , 2012 .
Télétoon started featuring season 2 sneak-peak episodes on October 28 , 2012  और premiered it on जनवरी  10 , 2013
Dodge B Series  यूटिलिटी circa  1950 , driven by Albert Namatjira
A pickup truck or pick-up , often simply referred to as a pickup , is a light motor vehicle with an open-top ,  पश्च कार्गो क्षेत्रफल (  bed ) .
In North America , the term pickup is used for light trucks with a lighter duty chassis and factory built  , एकीकृत bed , as खूब as लिये coupé यूटिलिटी वाहनों , प्रायः आधारित on a निजी car  chassis , but also often on a special dedicated chassi for such use .
Some countries have  उनके अपना  terms similar to pickup , such as ute in Australia and New Zealand , or bakkie in South Africa .
Large pickup trucks are somewhat rare in Europe ,  जहाँ वैन और लाइट lorries  are commonly used for similar roles .
The President  of the संयुक्त राज्य of  America ( POTUS ) is the head of state and head of government of the United States .
The president leads the executive branch of  the  federal government and is the commander-in-chief of the United States Armed Forces .
Article II of the U.S. Constitution vests the executive power  of  the United States in the president and charges him with the execution of federal law , alongside the responsibility of appointing federal executive , diplomatic , regulatory , and judicial officers , and concluding treaties with foreign powers , with the advice and consent of the Senate .
The president is further empowered to grant federal pardons and  reprieves , और to convene और  adjourn either or both houses of Congress under extraordinary circumstances .
Since the founding of  the संयुक्त राज्य , the  power of the president and the federal government have grown substantially and each modern president , despite possessing no formal legislative powers beyond signing or vetoing congressionally passed bills , is largely responsible for dictating the legislative agenda of his party and the foreign and domestic policy of the United States .
The president is  अक्सर वर्णित as  the most powerful person in the world .
The president is indirectly elected  by the लोगों through the  Electoral College to a four-year term , and is one of only two nationally elected federal officers , the other being the Vice President of the United States .
the twenty-second  Amendment , adopted in 1951 , prohibits anyone from ever being elected to the presidency for a third full term .
It  भी prohibits a व्यक्ति इससे होने निर्वाचित to the  presidency more than once if that person previously had served as president , or acting president , for more than two years of another person 's term as president .
In all , 43   individuals have served 55 four-year terms .
On January 20 , 2009 , Barack Obama became the 44th and  वर्तमान अध्यक्ष  .
On November 6 , 2012 , he was re-elected and is scheduled to serve  जबतक जनवरी 20 , 2017 .
Bottled  खनिज  water
Bottled water is drinking water ( e.g. , well water ,  आसुत जल  , Mineral water , or spring water ) packaged in plastic or glass water bottles .
बोतलबंद  water may be carbonated or not .
Sizes  दायरा इससे  small single serving bottles to large carboys for water coolers .
मैप of  the major rivers , lakes , and reservoirs in India
Map showing rivers and flood  prone क्षेत्रों  in India
Rivers of India play an important role in the  जीवनदान of the भारतीय  people .
The river systems provide irrigation , potable water , cheap transportation , electricity  , and  the livelihoods for a large number of people all over the country and to rural areas .
This easily explains why nearly all the major cities of India are located by  the बैंको of  rivers .
The rivers also have an important role in  हिन्दू mythology और हैं  considered holy by all Hindus in the country .
Seven  प्रमुख नदियाँ  along with their numerous tributaries make up the river system of India .
Most of the rivers pour their waters into the Bay of Bengal ; however ,  कुछ of the नदियाँ जिनकी पाठ्यक्रम लो  them through the western part of the country and towards the east of the state of Himachal Pradesh empty into the Arabian Sea .
Parts of Ladakh , northern parts  of the aravlli दायरा और the arid भाग  of the Thar Desert have inland drainage .
Dr.Francis Buchanan surveyed the courses of the rivers of India along with their  tributaries और शाखाओं  in 1810-11 AD and presented a minute account of it .
The shifting of the courses and bed over the centuries  is बहुत उल्लेखनीय  .
Many of the channels  उल्लेखित  in that survey have now become dead , dried or even extinct .
All major rivers of  इण्डिया originate  from one of the three main watersheds :
The Himalaya  और the  Karakoram ranges
Vindhya and Satpura  सीमाएँ और chotanagpur  plateau in central India
Sahyadri  or  Western Ghats in western India
The Bretton Woods system of monetary management established the rules for commercial and financial relations among the world 's major industrial  राज्य  in the mid-20th century .
The Bretton Woods system was the first example of a fully negotiated monetary order intended to govern monetary relations among  स्वतंत्र nation-states .
Preparing to rebuild the international economic system as World War II was still raging , 730 delegates from all 44 Allied nations gathered at the Mount Washington Hotel in Bretton Woods , New Hampshire , United States , for the United  राष्ट्र मौद्रिक  and Financial Conference .
The delegates deliberated during  1–22 जुलाई 1944 , और हस्ताक्षरित  the Agreement on its final day .
Setting up a system of rules , institutions , and procedures to regulate the international  मौद्रिक प्रणाली , the planners at bretton वुड्स स्थापित  the International Monetary Fund ( IMF ) and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development ( IBRD ) , which today is part of the World Bank Group .
These organizations   became operational in 1945 after a sufficient number of countries had ratified the agreement .
The chief features of the Bretton Woods system were an obligation for each country  to adopt a  monetary policy that maintained the exchange rate by tying its currency to the U.S. dollar and the ability of the IMF to bridge temporary imbalances of payments .
On 15 August 1971 , the  संयुक्त राज्य unilaterally  terminated convertibility of the US $ to gold .
इस brought the bretton वुड्स  system to an end and saw the dollar become fiat currency .
This action  , referred  to as the Nixon shock , created the situation in which the United States dollar became a reserve currency used by many states .
At  the वही समय , अनेक फिक्स्ड मुद्राएँ ( ऐसे as gbp , लिये उदाहरण ) , भी became फ़्री फ्लोटिंग .
Ducati Motor Holding S.p.A. is an Italian  कम्पनी कि डिजाइन  and manufactures motorcycles .
Headquartered in Bologna , Italy , Ducati is owned by Audi through its Italian  subsidiary लेम्बोर्गिनी  .
A credit score is a numerical expression based on a statistical analysis of a person 's credit  फाइलें ,  to represent the creditworthiness of that person .
A credit score  is  primarily based on credit report information typically sourced from credit bureaus .
Lenders , such as banks and credit card companies , use credit scores to evaluate the potential risk posed by lending money to  उपभोक्ता  and to mitigate losses due to bad debt .
Lenders use credit  स्कोर to determine जो qualifies  for a loan , at what interest rate , and what credit limits .
Lenders also use credit scores to determine which customers are likely to  लाओ in the सबसे आय .
The use of credit or identity scoring prior to authorizing access or granting  क्रेडिट is an क्रियान्वयन  of a trusted system .
क्रेडिट  scoring is not limited to banks .
Other organizations ,   such as mobile phone companies , insurance companies , landlords , and government departments employ the same techniques .
Credit scoring also has a lot of  ओवरलैप साथ आंकड़ा  mining , which uses many similar techniques .
These techniques combine  हज़ारों of  factors but they are more or less similar or the same .
The seven SI base units and the interdependency of their definitions : for example , to extract the definition of the metre from the speed of light , the definition of the second must be known while the ampere and  candela हैं दोनो निर्भर on the परिभाषा of उर्जा जिससे in फेरे is पारिभाषित  in terms of length , mass and time .
The International System of Units ( SI ) defines  सात इकाई of माप  as a basic set from which all other SI units are derived .
These SI base units and their physical  quantities are:
metre  लिये लंबाई  ( US English : meter )
kilogram for mass  ( नोट  : not the gram )
second  लिये  time
ampere for  इलेक्ट्रिक  current
kelvin for  तापमान
candela लिये  luminous intensity
mole   for the amount of substance .
The SI base quantities form a set of mutually independent dimensions as required by  आयामी विश्लेषण  commonly employed in science and technology .
However , in a given realization of these units they may well be interdependent ,  i.e . पारिभाषित in शर्तें  of each other .
the names of si इकाई हैं लिखा in लोअरकेस वर्ण ( the 'degree सेल्सियस ' meets इस नियम , as 'degree ' is the ईकाई , और 'celsius ' is a modifier ) .
The symbols of units are  लिखा in  lowercase ( e.g . metre has the symbol m ) , except that symbols for units named after persons are written with an initial capital letter ( e.g. , the hertz has the uppercase symbol Hz ) .
अनेक अन्य इकाई , ऐसे as the लीटर  ( US English : liter ) , are formally not part of the SI , but are accepted for use with SI .
Monument  canyon
Colorado National Monument ( locally referred to as The Monument ) is a part of the  नेशनल पार्क सेवा निकट the नगर of ग्रैंड जंक्शन ,  Colorado .
Spectacular canyons cut deep into sandstone and even granite–gneiss–schist rock formations , in   some areas .
This is an area of desert land high on the Colorado  पठार , साथ पिनियन  and juniper forests on the plateau .
The park hosts a wide range of wildlife ,  सहित red-tailed  hawks and golden eagles , ravens , jays , desert bighorn sheep , and coyotes .
Activities include hiking , horseback riding , road bicycling ,  और दर्शनीय ड्राइव ; a आगंतुक बीच  on the west side contains a natural history museum and gift shop .
There are magnificent views  इससे trails और the रिम चट्टान ड्राइव  , which winds along the plateau .
Nearby are the Book Cliffs , and the  largest flat-topped  mountain in the world , the Grand Mesa .
Its feature attraction is Monument  canyon ,  which runs the width of the park , and includes rock formations such as Independence Monument , the Kissing Couple , and Coke Ovens .
The monument includes 20,500 acres ( 32 square miles ) , much of  जिससे रै महरूम अनुशंसित to  Congress for designation as wilderness .
left to right : Utility Uniform , Blue Dress Uniform , Service  वर्दी , और संध्या पोशाक  uniforms
The Uniforms of the United States Marine Corps serve  to फर्क marines  from members of other services .
Among current uniforms  in the संयुक्त  States Armed Forces , the Marines ' uniforms have been in service the longest .
The Marine Dress Blue uniform has , with few  परिवर्तन , महरूम  worn in essentially its current form since the 19th century .
North American  टेलीफोन क्षेत्रफल कोड  419 and 567 serve the northwest quadrant of the U.S. state of Ohio .
The largest city served by these area codes is Toledo ( and its suburbs  of हॉलैंड , maumee , northwood , ऑरेगॉन , ओटावा पहाड़ियाँ ,  Perrysburg , Rossford , Sylvania , Swanton , Waterville , and Whitehouse ) .
Other cities served by these area codes include Ada , Ashland , Bellevue , Bluffton , Bowling Green , Bryan , Bucyrus , Celina , Clyde , Crestline , Defiance , Delphos , Edison , Erastus , Findlay , Fostoria , Fremont , Galion , Kenton , Lima , Mansfield , Mount Gilead , Napoleon , Norwalk , Oak Harbor , Port  क्लिंटन , sandusky , शेल्बी , st. marys , tiffin , अपर  Sandusky , Van Wert , Wapakoneta , Wauseon , Willard .
Other areas served include the Lake Erie Islands north of  बंदरगाहों क्लिंटन और वेस्ट of  Sandusky .
The  प्रमुख क्षेत्रफल कोड , 419 ,  was created as one of the original area codes in October 1947 ; the overlay area code 567 was created on January 1 , 2002 .
Despite the presence of Toledo , the state 's fourth-largest city , 419 was the  पिछला  of Ohio 's original four area codes to have been split or overlaid .
Mickey Leroy Gilley (  born  March 9 , 1936 ) is an American country music singer and musician .
Although he started out singing straight-up country and western material in the 1970s , he moved towards a more pop -friendly sound in the  1980s , bringing उसे further कामयाबी on नहीं बस the  country charts , but the pop charts as well .
Among  उसके biggest हिट्स हैं `` रूम पूरा  of Roses , '' `` Do n't the Girls All Get Prettier at Closing Time , '' and the remake of the Soul hit `` Stand by Me `` .
He is also the cousin of Jerry Lee Lewis ,  कार्ल  McVoy , Jim Gilley and Jimmy Swaggart .
According to the Federal Aviation Administration , Gilley is a licensed pilot ,  जो holds an यंत्र दरजा  with commercial pilot privileges for multi-engine airplanes , as well as private pilot privileges for single engine aircraft .
The  सितंबर 11 हमले ( भी referred  to as September 11 , September 11th , or 9/11 ) were a series of four coordinated terrorist attacks launched by the Islamic terrorist group al-Qaeda upon the United States in New York City and the Washington , D.C. area on September 11 , 2001 .
Four passenger  airliners यहूद  hijacked by 19 al-Qaeda terrorists so they could be flown into buildings in suicide attacks .
Two of those planes , American Airlines Flight 11 and United  एयरलाइंस उड़ान 175 , यहूद क्रैश into the उत्तर और दक्षिण  towers , respectively , of the World Trade Center complex in New York City .
Within two hours , both towers collapsed with debris and the resulting fires causing partial or complete collapse of all other buildings in the WTC  जटिल , as खूब as प्रमुख क्षति to टेन अन्य विशाल surrounding structures  .
A  तीसरा प्लेन , अमरीकी  Airlines Flight 77 , was crashed into the Pentagon ( the headquarters of the United States Department of Defense ) , leading to a partial collapse in its western side .
The fourth plane , United Airlines Flight 93 , was targeted at the  संयुक्त  States Capitol in Washington , D.C. , but crashed into a field near Shanksville , Pennsylvania , after its passengers tried to overcome the hijackers .
In total , almost 3,000 people died  in the हमले , सहित  the 227 civilians and 19 hijackers aboard the four planes .
Suspicion  जल्दी गिरी  on al-Qaeda .
Although the group 's leader , Osama bin Laden , initially denied any involvement , in 2004 he  claimed जिम्मेदारी  for the attacks .
Al-Qaeda and bin Laden cited U.S. support of Israel , the presence of U.S. troops in Saudi Arabia , and sanctions against Iraq as motives  लिये the हमले  .
The United States responded to the attacks by launching the War on Terror and invading Afghanistan to depose  the तालिबान  , which had harbored al-Qaeda .
Many countries strengthened their anti-terrorism legislation and expanded law  प्रवर्तन शक्तियां  .
Having evaded capture for years , bin Laden was  स्तिथ और मारे  by U.S. forces in May 2011 .
The destruction of the Twin Towers and other properties caused serious damage to the economy of Lower Manhattan and had a  significant प्रभाव  on global markets .
क्लीनअप of the संसार व्यापार बीच साईट थी समाप्त in may 2002 , और the प्रस्तुतीकरण थी repaired भीतर a साल  .
Numerous memorials have been constructed , including the National September 11 Memorial & Museum in New York  , the प्रस्तुतीकरण मेमोरियल , और the  Flight 93 National Memorial in Pennsylvania .
After a  lengthy विलंब , the एक  World Trade Center is expected to be completed at Ground Zero in New York City in 2013 .
Finding Nemo is a 2003 American computer-animated comedy-drama adventure film written and directed by Andrew Stanton , released by Walt Disney Pictures , and the fifth film  उत्पादित  by Pixar Animation Studios .
It tells  the  story of the over-protective clownfish named Marlin ( Albert Brooks ) who , along with a regal tang named Dory ( Ellen DeGeneres ) , searches for his abducted son Nemo ( Alexander Gould ) all the way to Sydney Harbour .
साथ the  way , Marlin learns to take risks and let Nemo take care of himself .
It is Pixar  's पहला  film to be released in cinemas in the northern hemisphere summer .
The film  थी re-released  for the first time in 3D on September 14 , 2012 , and it was released on Blu-ray on December 4 , 2012 .
A  sequel  , Finding Dory , is currently in development , set to be released on November 25 , 2015 .
The film received universal critical acclaim and  जीती the अकादमी  Award for Best Animated Feature , and was nominated in three more categories including Best Original Screenplay .
It was the second  highest-grossing  film of 2003 , earning a total of $ 921 million worldwide .
Finding Nemo is also the best-selling DVD of all  समय , साथ over 40 लाख  copies sold as of 2006 , and was the highest-grossing G-rated film of all time before Pixar 's own Toy Story 3 overtook it .
It is also the  23rd highest-grossing  film of all time , as well as the 3rd highest-grossing animated film .
In 2008 , the American Film Institute named it the tenth greatest  एनिमेटेड फिल्मी कभी  made during their Top 10 .
The sixth  ऋतु  of America 's Best Dance Crew , also known as America 's Best Dance Crew : Season of the Superstars , premiered on April 7 , 2011 and concluded on June 5 , 2011 .
Auditions were held  in चार शहरों  from January 21 through February 5 : Chicago , Houston , New York , and Los Angeles .
This  ऋतु takes  a different route from past seasons .
The  क्रू जरूर perform to the  music of one specific artist each week , including Rihanna , Lil Wayne , and other popular stars .
This season also features special guest appearances by various music celebrities  सहित जस्टिन  Bieber , The Black Eyed Peas , Katy Perry , Kesha , Nicki Minaj , and Kanye West .
Dominic `` D-Trix '' Sandoval , a former member of Quest Crew ,  the विजेता of the तीसरा ऋतु  of America 's Best Dance Crew , joins returning judges Lil Mama and JC Chasez as the newest judge .
In the season finale , I aM mE was declared the winner of  ऋतु 6 और प्राप्त the $ 100,000  ( USD ) prize .
In the United States , Social Security  refers to the old-age  , Survivors , and Disability Insurance ( OASDI ) federal program .
The original Social Security Act (  1935 )  and the current version of the Act , as amended , encompass several social welfare and social insurance programs .
Social Security is  primarily वित्तपोषित through समर्पित payroll  taxes called Federal Insurance Contributions Act tax ( FICA ) .
Tax deposits are formally entrusted to the Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance Trust Fund , the Federal Disability Insurance Trust Fund , the Federal Hospital Insurance  Trust Fund , or  the Federal Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Fund which comprise the Social Security Trust Fund .
Upward redistribution of income is responsible for about 43 % of the  प्रक्षिप्त सोशल  Security shortfall over the next 75 years .
According to economist Martin Feldstein , the combined spending for all social insurance programs in 2003 constituted 37 % of government  व्यय और 7 % of the सकल घरेलू उत्पाद  .
Social Security is currently estimated to keep roughly 40 percent of all Americans age 65 or older out  of गरीबी  .
The Social Security Administration is  headquartered  in Woodlawn , Maryland , just west of Baltimore .
the  alcohol by volume shown on a bottle of absinthe .
Alcohol by volume ( abbreviated as ABV , abv , or alc/vol ) is a standard measure of how much alcohol ( ethanol ) is  contained in an alcoholic  beverage ( expressed as a percentage of total volume ) .
The ABV  मानक is प्रयुक्त  worldwide .
In some countries , alcohol by volume  is  referred to as degrees Gay-Lussac ( after the French chemist Joseph Louis Gay-Lussac ) .
Laurel Hollow is a village in the Town of Oyster Bay in Nassau County , New York in the United States   .
The population was 1,952 at  the 2010  census .
Charles John Huffam  डिकेंस (  ; 7 February 1812 – 9 June 1870 ) was an English writer and social critic .
He created some of the world 's  सबसे यादगार fictional  characters and is generally regarded as the greatest novelist of the Victorian period .
During his life  , उसके works enjoyed  unprecedented fame , and by the twentieth century his literary genius was broadly acknowledged by critics and scholars .
उसके novels और छोटी  stories continue to be widely popular .
Born in Portsmouth , England ,  डिकेंस बाएँ स्कूल  to work in a factory after his father was thrown into debtors ' prison .
Although he had   little formal education , his early impoverishment drove him to succeed .
Over his career he edited a weekly journal for 20 years , wrote 15 novels , 5 novellas and hundreds of short stories and non-fiction articles ,  lectured और performed extensively , थी  an indefatigable letter writer , and campaigned vigorously for children 's rights , education , and other social reforms .
Dickens sprang to fame with the  1836 सीरियल  publication of The Pickwick Papers .
Within a few years he had become an international  साहित्यिक  celebrity , famous for his humour , satire , and keen observation of character and society .
His novels , most published in monthly or weekly instalments , pioneered the serial publication of narrative fiction , which became the dominant  विक्टोरियन विधि लिये अनोखा प्रकाशन  .
The instalment format allowed Dickens to evaluate his audience 's reaction , and he often modified his plot and character development based on such  प्रतिक्रिया  .
लिये उदाहरण , जब उसके बीवी 's chiropodist expressed तकलीफ at the रास्ता मिस mowcher in दाउद कॉपरफील्ड लगा to प्रतिबिंबित उसके disabilities , डिकेंस गई on to improve the अक्षर साथ धनात्मक lineaments  .
Fagin in Oliver Twist apparently mirrors the famous fence Ikey Solomon ; His caricature of  leigh हंट in the फिगर of mr skimpole in bleak हाउस थी likewise  toned down on advice from some of his friends , as they read episodes .
In the same novel , both Lawrence Boythorne and Mooney the beadle are drawn from real life –  boythorne इससे वाल्टर जंगली landor  and Mooney from 'Looney ' , a beadle at Salisbury Square .
His plots were carefully constructed , and  डिकेंस प्रायः wove in तत्व इससे topical कार्यक्रम  into his narratives .
Masses of the illiterate  ग़रीब chipped in ha'pennies  to have each new monthly episode read to them , opening up and inspiring a new class of readers .
Dickens was regarded as the  साहित्यिक colossus of  his age .
उसके 1843 novella , a क्रिसमस कैरोल , is एक of the सबसे influential works कभी लिखा , और it remains लोकप्रिय और continues to inspire adaptations in प्रत्येक कलाकारी  genre .
His creative genius has  महरूम praised by fellow writers—from  Leo Tolstoy to G. K. Chesterton and George Orwell —for its realism , comedy , prose style , unique characterisations , and social criticism .
On the other hand Oscar Wilde , Henry James and Virginia Woolf  complained  of a lack of psychological depth , loose writing , and a vein of saccharine sentimentalism .
Martin Luther King and other civil rights  नेताओ in सामने  of the statue of Abraham Lincoln , August 28 , 1963
The civil rights movement was a series of worldwide political movements for equality before the  विधि कि peaked  in the 1960s .
In many situations it took the form of campaigns of civil  प्रतिरोध aimed  at achieving change by nonviolent forms of resistance .
In some situations it was accompanied , or followed , by civil  अशांति और हथियारबंद विद्रोह  .
The process was long and tenuous in many countries , and many of  ये आंदोलनों किया नहीं fully achieve उनके  goals although , the efforts of these movements did lead to improvements in the legal rights of previously oppressed groups of people .
The main aim of the civil rights movement included , and include , ensuring that the rights of all people are equally protected by the law , including the rights  of  minorities .
Civil  अधिकारों आंदोलनों ranging इससे the  global LGBT rights movement to the global Women 's rights movement to various racial minority rights movements around the world continue .
The 2010 FIFA World Cup was the 19th FIFA World Cup , the world  चैंपियनशिप लिये मेन  's national association football teams .
It took  प्लेस in दक्षिण  Africa from 11 June to 11 July 2010 .
The bidding process for hosting the tournament finals was open only to African nations ; in 2004 , the international football federation , FIFA  , चयनित दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी over मिश्र और मोरक्को to become  the first African nation to host the finals .
The matches were played  in ten  stadiums in nine host cities around the country , with the final played at the Soccer City stadium in South Africa 's largest city , Johannesburg .
Thirty-two teams were selected for participation via a worldwide  योग्यता टूर्नामेंट  that began in August 2007 .
In the first round of the tournament finals , the teams competed in round-robin groups of four teams for points , with the top two teams in each group  proceeding  .
These sixteen  टीमों उन्नत to the नॉकआउट  stage , where three rounds of play decided which teams would participate in the final .
In the final , Spain , the European champions , defeated third-time finalists the Netherlands 1–0 after extra time , with Andrés Iniesta 's goal in the 116th minute  giving स्पेन उनके पहला संसार शीर्षक , बनने the आठवीं स्वदेश to जीत the टूर्नामेंट , और the पहला यूरोपीय स्वदेश to जीत the टूर्नामेंट बाहर  its home continent .
Host nation  दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी , 2006  world champions Italy and 2006 runners-up France were all eliminated in the first round of the tournament .
It was the first time that the hosts were eliminated in the first  गोलाकार  .
New Zealand with their three draws were the only undefeated team in the tournament , but were also eliminated in the  first  round .
The McMuffin is a family of breakfast sandwiches in various sizes and configurations , sold by the  fast-food  restaurant chain McDonald 's .
The Egg McMuffin is the signature breakfast sandwich ; it was invented by the late McDonald 's franchisee Herb Peterson in the late 1960s  और थी introduced देशभर  in 1972 .
जॉन लेनन थी an अंग्रेज़ी संगीतकार  who gained worldwide fame as one of the founders of The Beatles , for his subsequent solo career , and for his political activism and pacifism .
he थी  shot by Mark David Chapman at the entrance of the building where he lived , The Dakota , in New York City on 8 December 1980 .
Lennon had just returned from Record Plant  स्टुडियो साथ उसके  wife , Yoko Ono .
Lennon was pronounced dead on arrival at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center , where it was stated that nobody could have lived for more than a few minutes after  sustaining  such injuries .
Shortly after local news stations reported Lennon 's death , crowds gathered at Roosevelt Hospital  और in सामने  of the Dakota .
Lennon was cremated on 10 December 1980 at the Ferncliff Cemetery in Hartsdale , New York ; the ashes were given to Ono , who chose not  to  hold a funeral for him .
The first report of Lennon 's death to a U.S. national  दर्शक थी घोषित by हावर्ड cosell ,  on ABC 's Monday Night Football .
New Orleans (  or , locally or  ; ) is a major United States port and the largest city and metropolitan area in the state of Louisiana .
The population of the  नगर थी 343,829  as of the 2010 U.S. Census .
The New Orleans metropolitan area ( New Orleans–Metairie–Kenner Metropolitan Statistical Area ) had a  जनसांख्यिकी of 1,167,764 in 2010 और थी the 46th largest  in the United States .
The New Orleans–Metairie–Bogalusa Combined Statistical Area , a larger trading area  , था a 2010 जनसांख्यिकी  of 1,214,932 .
The city is named after Orléans ,  a city located on the Loire River in  Centre , France , and is well known for its distinct French Creole architecture , as well as its cross-cultural and multilingual heritage .
New Orleans is also famous for its cuisine , music ( particularly as the birthplace of jazz ) , and its annual  जश्न और त्यौहार , सबसे  notably Mardi Gras .
The city is often  referred to as the `` सबसे अद्वितीय  '' in America .
New Orleans is located in   southeastern Louisiana , straddling the Mississippi River .
The  नगर  and Orleans Parish ( ) are .
The city and parish are bounded by the parishes of St. Tammany to the north ,  st. बर्नार्ड to the ईस्ट , plaquemines  to the south and Jefferson to the south and west .
Lake  pontchartrain  , part of which is included in the city limits , lies to the north and Lake Borgne lies to the east .
The United States presidential election of 1968 was the 46th quadrennial presidential election  , आयोजित on मंगलवार  , November 5 , 1968 .
The Republican nominee , former Vice-President  रिचर्ड निक्सन , जीती  the election over the Democratic nominee , incumbent Vice-President Hubert Humphrey .
Nixon ran on a campaign that  promised to restore विधि  and order to the nation 's cities , torn by riots and crime .
Analysts have argued the election of 1968 is a realigning  चुनाव  as it permanently disrupted the New Deal Coalition that had dominated presidential politics for 36 years .
Coming four years after Democrat Lyndon B. Johnson won in a historic landslide , the election saw  the लाज़िम अध्यक्ष मजबूर आउट of the रेस और a  Republican elected for the first time in twelve years .
It was a wrenching national experience , conducted during a year of violence that included the assassination of civil rights leader Martin Luther King , Jr. , and subsequent race riots across the nation , the assasination of Democratic presidential candidate Robert F. Kennedy , widespread opposition to the Vietnam War across university campuses , and violent confrontations between police and  anti-war प्रदर्शनकारियों at the 1968 लोकतांत्रिक नेशनल सम्मेलन as the लोकतांत्रिक पार्टी  split again and again .
The election featured the strongest third party effort since  1912 by  former Alabama Governor George Wallace , a Democrat .
Because Wallace 's campaign opposed federal  हस्तक्षेप in the दक्षिण to समाप्त स्कूल  segregation , he carried the Deep South and ran well in ethnic industrial districts in the North .
This was the last election in which New York had the most votes in the  चुनावी  college ( 43 votes ) .
After the 1970 census  , कैलिफ़ोर्निया  gained the most electoral votes and has remained the most populous state since then .
This is the latest election where a presidential ticket won without carrying the vice  अध्यक्षीय प्रत्याशी  's home state .
Karak ( ; also  ज्ञात as garak , garrak  , and Gorg ) is a village in Gamasiyab Rural District , in the Central District of Nahavand County , Hamadan Province , Iran .
At the 2006  जनसांख्यिकी ,  its population was 294 , in 65 families .
Kurt 's  हस्ताक्षर
Kurt Donald Cobain ( February 20 , 1967 – April 5 , 1994 ) was an American musician and artist , best  ज्ञात as the सीसे सिंगर , guitarist और  primary songwriter of the grunge band Nirvana .
Cobain formed Nirvana with Krist Novoselic in Aberdeen , Washington in 1985 and established it as part of the Seattle music scene , having its debut album Bleach released on the independent  रिकार्ड लेबल sub  Pop in 1989 .
After  हस्ताक्षर  with major label DGC Records , the band found breakthrough success with `` Smells Like Teen Spirit `` from its second album Nevermind ( 1991 ) .
Following the success of Nevermind , Nirvana was  labeled `` the फ्लैगशिप बैंड '' of पीढी x  , and Cobain hailed as `` the spokesman of a generation '' .
Cobain , however , was often uncomfortable and frustrated , believing his message and artistic  दृष्टि to have महरूम misinterpreted  by the public , with his personal issues often subject to media attention .
He challenged Nirvana 's audience with its final studio  एल्बम  In Utero ( 1993 ) .
During the  पिछला सालो of उसके जीवन ,  Cobain struggled with heroin addiction , illness and depression .
he भी था परेशानी coping साथ उसके कीर्ति और पब्लिक चित्र , और the पेशेवर और lifelong निजी pressures surrounding खुद और उसके बीवी , संगीतकार कोर्टनी प्रेम .
On April 8 , 1994 , Cobain was found  मुर्दे at उसके घर in सिएटल  , the victim of what was officially ruled a suicide by a self-inflicted shotgun wound to the head .
The circumstances of his death at age 27 have  become  a topic of public fascination and debate .
Since their debut , Nirvana , with Cobain  as a songwriter , रै बेची  over 25 million albums in the U.S. , and over 50 million worldwide .
A  millwright is  a craftsman or tradesman engaged with the construction and maintenance of machinery .
More generally in the English speaking  संसार , जल्दी  millwrights were specialist carpenters who erected machines used in agriculture , food processing and processing lumber and paper .
In the early part of the Industrial Revolution , their skills were pressed  into  service building the earliest powered textile mills .
Modern millwrights work  साथ स्टील  and other materials in addition to wood and must often combine the skills of several skilled trades in order to successfully fabricate industrial machinery or to assemble machines from pre-fabricated parts .
The modern millwright must also be able to read  blueprints और अन्य schematics to सहायता  him in the construction of complex systems .
Millwrights are frequently unionized , with around 45 % unionized in the US , although experienced millwrights often set themselves up as independent  ठेकेदारों  .
The Adjustment Bureau is a 2011 American romantic action thriller film loosely based on the  फिलिप K.  Dick short story , `` Adjustment Team `` .
The film was written and directed by George Nolfi and stars Matt  डैमन और एमिली  Blunt .
The   cast also includes Anthony Mackie , John Slattery , Michael Kelly , and Terence Stamp .
The score was composed by Thomas Newman , with two songs by Richard Ashcroft ( `` Future 's Bright '' for the opening sequence ; `` Are You  तैयार ? ''  for the closing credits ) .
सोडियम  azide is the inorganic compound with the formula NaN3 .
This  colorless  salt is the gas-forming component in many car airbag systems .
It is used for the preparation of other  azide यौगिकों  .
It is an ionic  पदार्थ , is अत्यधिक  soluble in water , and is very acutely toxic .
Double rainbow  और supernumerary  rainbows on the inside of the primary arc .
The shadow of the photographer 's head on  the bottom  marks the centre of the rainbow circle ( antisolar point ) .
A rainbow is an  ऑप्टिकल और meteorological घटना  that is caused by reflection of light in water droplets in the Earth 's atmosphere , resulting in a spectrum of light appearing in the sky .
It takes the form of a  multicoloured  arc .
Rainbows caused by sunlight always appear in the section of sky  सीधे विपरीत the  sun .
In a `` primary rainbow '' , the arc  shows रेड on the  outer part and violet on the inner side .
This rainbow  is caused by  light being refracted while entering a droplet of water , then reflected inside on the back of the droplet and refracted again when leaving it .
In a double rainbow , a second arc is seen outside the primary arc , and has the order of its colours reversed , red facing  toward the अन्य एक , in  both rainbows .
This second rainbow is caused by light  reflecting twice अंदर  water droplets .
The Conservative Party , officially the Conservative and  यूनियनिस्ट पार्टी और  colloquially referred to as the Tory Party or the Tories , is a centre-right political party in the United Kingdom that espouses the philosophies of conservatism and British unionism .
it is the largest political party in the United Kingdom , being the largest single party in the House of Commons with 303 MPs , the largest party in local government with 9,391 councillors , and  the largest अंग्रेजों पार्टी in the  European Parliament with 25 MEPs .
It governs in coalition with the  Liberal  Democrats , with party leader David Cameron as Prime Minister .
the रूढ़िवादी पार्टी थी संस्थापित in 1834 , और थी एक of दो प्रबल पार्टियों in the 19th सदी , साथ साथ the उदार पार्टी .
It changed its name to the  रूढ़िवादी और यूनियनिस्ट  Party in 1912 after merging with the Liberal Unionist Party , although that name is rarely used and it is generally referred to as simply the Conservative Party .
In the 1920s ,  the उदार vote greatly diminished  and the Labour Party became the Conservatives ' main rivals .
Conservative Prime Ministers led governments for 57  सालो of the 20th सदी , सहित विंस्टन चर्चिल (  1940–45 , 1951–55 ) and Margaret Thatcher ( 1979–90 ) .
थैचर 's कार्यकाल led to wide-ranging  economic liberalisation and saw the Conservatives become the most eurosceptic of the three major parties .
The party  थी लौटे to सरकारी in गठबन्धन  , having failed to win a majority , in 2010 under the more `` liberal '' leadership of David Cameron .
In the European Parliament , the Conservatives are the largest British party with 25 MEPs , who sit with the soft eurosceptic European Conservatives  and Reformists ( ECR )  parliamentary group , while the party itself is a member of the Alliance of European Conservatives and Reformists ( AECR ) Europarty .
They are the third-largest party in the Scottish Parliament and  second-largest in  the Welsh Assembly .
They were formally allied to the Ulster Unionist Party ( UUP ) as part of the Ulster Conservatives and Unionists arrangement , with the UUP currently participating  in the  five-party Northern Ireland Executive .
नियति 's चाइल्ड थी an अमरीकी  R & B girl group whose final , and perhaps most recognizable , line-up comprised Beyoncé Knowles , Kelly Rowland and Michelle Williams .
Formed in 1990 in Houston , Texas , Destiny 's Child members began their musical endeavors as Girl 's Tyme comprising , among  अन्य , नॉलेस , rowland , latavia roberson  and LeToya Luckett .
After years of  सीमित कामयाबी ,  they were signed to Columbia Records as Destiny 's Child .
Destiny 's Child was launched into  mainstream recognition following the release of their  best-selling second album , The Writing 's on the Wall , which contained the number-one singles `` Bills , Bills , Bills `` and `` Say My Name `` .
Despite critical and commercial success , the group was plagued  by  internal conflict and legal turmoil , as Roberson and Luckett attempted to split from the group 's manager Mathew Knowles , citing favoritism of Knowles and Rowland , his daughter and niece , respectively .
Both Roberson and Luckett were soon replaced with Williams and Farrah Franklin ; however , in 2000  , फ्रैंकलिन थी बर्खास्त  , leaving them as a trio .
Their third album , Survivor , which contains themes the public interpreted as a channel to the group 's experience , contains the  विश्वव्यापी हिट्स `` स्वतंत्र महिलाओं `` ,  `` Survivor `` and `` Bootylicious `` .
In  2002 , वे घोषित  a hiatus and re-united two years later for the release of their fourth studio album , Destiny Fulfilled ( 2004 ) .
Destiny 's  चाइल्ड रै  sold more than 50 million records worldwide to date .
Billboard magazine ranks the group as one of the greatest musical trios of all time , the ninth most successful artist/band of the 2000s , and placed  the समूह 68th in इसके all-time hot 100 कलाकारों सूची in 2008  .
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( CDC ) is a United  राज्य संघीय एजेंसी अंतर्गत  the Department of Health and Human Services headquartered in Druid Hills , unincorporated DeKalb County , Georgia , in Greater Atlanta .
It works to protect public health and safety by providing  सूचना  to enhance health decisions , and it promotes health through partnerships with state health departments and other organizations .
The CDC focus national attention on developing and applying disease prevention and control ( especially infectious  diseases and foodborne pathogens and other  microbial infections ) , environmental health , occupational safety and health , health promotion , injury prevention and education activities designed to improve the health of the people of the United States .
The CDC is the United States '  नेशनल पब्लिक स्वास्थ्य संस्थान  and is a founding member of the International Association of National Public Health Institutes .
Earthquake prediction `` is usually defined as the specification of the time , location , and  परिमाण of a भविष्य भूकंप  within stated limits '' , and particularly of `` the next strong earthquake to occur in a region . ''
This can be distinguished from earthquake forecasting , which is the probabilistic assessment of general earthquake hazard , including the frequency and magnitude of damaging earthquakes , in a given  क्षेत्रफल over अवधि of सालो or दशकों  .
This can be further distinguished from real-time earthquake warning  प्रणालियों , जिससे , upon डिटेक्शन of a कठोर भूकंप , can provide  neighboring regions a few seconds warning of potentially significant shaking .
To be useful , an earthquake prediction must be precise enough to warrant the cost of increased precautions , including disruption of ordinary activities  और कॉमर्स , और सामयिक पर्याप्त कि तैयारी  can be made .
Predictions must also be reliable , as false alarms and cancelled alarms are not only economically costly , but seriously undermine confidence in , and thereby  the प्रभावकारिता of , कोई दयालु of चेतावनी .
With  over 7,000 भूकंप around the संसार प्रत्येक साल साथ a परिमाण of 4.0 or वृहद , नगण्य कामयाबी  in earthquake prediction is easily obtained using sufficiently broad parameters of time , location , or magnitude .
However , such trivial `` successful  पूर्वानुमान '' हैं नहीं उपयोगी  .
प्रमुख भूकंप हैं प्रायः followed  by reports that they were predicted , or at least anticipated , but no claim of a successful prediction of a major earthquake has survived close inquiry .
In  the  1970s there was intense optimism amongst scientists that some method of predicting earthquakes might be found , but by the 1990s continuing failure led many scientists to question whether it was even possible .
जबकि अनेक वैज्ञानिकों  still hold that , given enough resources , prediction might be possible , many others maintain that earthquake prediction is inherently impossible .
Deborah Ann `` Debby '' Ryan ( born May 13 , 1993 ) is an American actress ,  सिंगर  , musician , songwriter and record producer .
Ryan is  बेहतरीन ज्ञात लिये अभिनीत as बेली  Pickett in the Disney Channel Original Series The Suite Life on Deck .
In 2008 , The Suite Life on Deck ranked as TV 's top series among kids 6-11 and the  no . 2 scripted श्रेणी among  tweens 9-14 .
Ryan  प्रारंभ एक्टिंग in पेशेवर थिएटर at  the age of seven ; in 2007 she appeared in the Barney & Friends straight-to-DVD film Barney : Let 's Go to the Firehouse and then was discovered in a nationwide search by Disney .
She is also known for appearing in the 2008 feature film  the longshots  as Edith .
In 2009 , she guest starred in an episode of Wizards of Waverly Place in Wizards on Deck with Hannah  मोंटाना as बेली पिकेट साथ साथ उसके  other cast mates from The Suite Life on Deck .
Then , in 2010 ,  वो स्ट्रक्चर in the फिल्मी 16 बधाइयां  , which was the most watched cable program on the day of its premiere on the Disney Channel .
16 Wishes introduced Ryan to new audiences ; the movie received high viewership in the adults demographic (   18-34 ) .
Soon after that , Ryan starred in the  स्वतंत्र नाट्य फिल्मी  , What If ... , which premiered on August 20 , 2010 .
Ryan also  स्ट्रक्चर  in the new Disney Channel Original movie , Radio Rebel , where she portrays the role of Tara Adams , a shy 17-year-old girl who adopts the radio personality , Radio Rebel .
Released  फ़रवरी  17 , 2012 .
Ryan stars  in the titular  role in the Disney Channel Original Series , Jessie .
Stührling Tourbillon  गति ( ) .
In horology , a tourbillon ( ; `` whirlwind '' ) is an addition  to the यांत्रिकी  of a watch escapement .
Developed around 1795 by the French-Swiss watchmaker Abraham-Louis Breguet from an earlier idea by the English chronometer maker John Arnold , a tourbillon aims to counter the effects of gravity by mounting the  escapement और संतुलन व्हील in a घूर्णन पिंजरा , to negate  the effect of gravity when the timepiece ( thus the escapement ) is stuck in a certain position .
Originally an attempt to improve accuracy , tourbillons are still included in some expensive modern watches as a novelty and demonstration  of watchmaking  virtuosity .
The mechanism is  प्रायः  exposed on the watch 's face to show it off .
The Windows Installer ( previously known as Microsoft Installer ) is a software component used for the  संस्थापना  , maintenance , and removal of software on modern Microsoft Windows systems .
The installation information , and often the files themselves , are packaged in installation packages , loosely  रिलेशनल databases  structured as COM Structured Storages and commonly known as `` MSI files '' , from their default file extension .
Windows Installer contains  significant परिवर्तन  from its predecessor , Setup API .
New  सुविधाएँ शामिल  a GUI framework and automatic generation of the uninstallation sequence .
Windows Installer is  positioned as an वैकल्पिक to  stand-alone executable installer frameworks such as older versions of InstallShield and NSIS .
Microsoft encourages third parties to use Windows Installer as the basis for installation  frameworks , so कि वे synchronize correctly  with other installers and keep the internal database of installed products consistent .
Important features such as rollback and versioning depend on a consistent  आतंरिक डेटाबेस  for reliable operation .
Furthermore , Windows Installer facilitates the principle of  तनिक विशेषाधिकार by performing तन्त्र  installations by proxy for unprivileged users .
Four Loko is a line of  alcoholic  beverages , originally marketed as energy drinks , sold by Phusion Projects of Chicago , Illinois .
Phusion operates  as पेय चार  Brewing Company .
Four Loko  , the कम्पनी  's most popular beverage , debuted in the United States market in 2005 .
It is now sold in 48 states , and in Canada  , the बहामा  , Bolivia , Honduras , and Europe .
the नाम `` चार '' is निकला  from the original energy drink 's four main ingredients : alcohol , caffeine , taurine , and guarana .
Four branded  products have been the  object of legal , ethical , and health concerns related to the company allegedly marketing them to the underaged and the purported danger of combining alcohol and caffeine .
After the beverage was banned in several states , a product reintroduction in December 2010 removed caffeine , taurine , and guarana as ingredients , and the malt  पेय is  no longer marketed as an energy drink .
the गर्दन of a गिटार प्रर्दशित the नट  ( in the background , coloured white ) and first four metal frets .
A fret is a raised element on the  गर्दन  of a stringed instrument .
Frets usually extend  आरपार the  full width of the neck .
On most modern western fretted instruments , frets are metal strips inserted into the  fingerboard  .
On some historical instruments and non-European instruments ,  frets हैं बना of टुकड़े  of string tied around the neck .
Frets divide the neck into fixed  खण्ड at intervals  related to a musical framework .
On instruments such as guitars , each fret represents  एक semitone  in the standard western system where one octave is divided into twelve semitones .
Fret is often used as a verb ,  अर्थ  simply `` to press down the string behind a fret . ''
Fretting often refers to the   frets and/or their system of placement .
There was consumption of alcohol both  दौरान और बाद  prohibition .
The 18th Amendment prohibited the production , distribution and sale of alcoholic beverages in  the संयुक्त राज्य और थी  widely supported by the American public when it went into effect in 1920 .
The temperance movement had popularized the belief that alcohol was the major cause of most personal and social problems and prohibition was  देखी as the  solution to the nation 's poverty , crime , violence , and other ills .
Upon  अनुसमर्थन  of the amendment , the famous evangelist Billy Sunday said that `` The slums will soon be only a memory .
We will turn our prisons into factories and our jails into  storehouses और corncribs  . ''
(  compare  Christianity and alcohol . )
Since alcohol was to be banned and since it was seen as the cause  of सबसे , if नहीं  all , crime , some communities sold their jails .
The nation was highly optimistic and the leading prohibitionist in the United States Congress  confidently asserted कि `` वहीँ is  as much chance of repealing the Eighteenth Amendment as there is for a hummingbird to fly to the planet Mars with the Washington Monument tied to its tail.”
The metre ( meter in American English ) , ( SI unit symbol : m ; SI dimension symbol : L ) , is the fundamental unit  of लंबाई in the अंतरराष्ट्रीय  System of Units ( SI ) .
Originally intended to be one ten-millionth of the distance from the Earth 's equator to the North Pole  ( at समुद्र स्तर ) , इसके परिभाषा  has been periodically refined to reflect growing knowledge of metrology .
Since 1983 , it has been defined as `` the length of  the पाथ travelled by लाइट  in vacuum during a time interval of 1/299,792,458 of a second . ''
Geologists exploring Jurassic sedimentary rocks in  makhtesh  Gadol , Negev Desert , Israel
Geologists explaining the  महत्व of volcanic  ash layers to students on field in Iceland
A geologist is a scientist who studies the solid and liquid matter that constitutes  the धरती as  well as the processes and history that has shaped it .
Geologists usually engage in  अध्ययन  geology .
Geologists , studying more of  an लागू  science than a theoretical one , must approach Geology using physics , chemistry and biology as well as other sciences .
Geologists , compared to scientists engaged in other fields , are generally more exposed  to the बाहरी than रहकर in laboratories ; हालांकि कुछ geologists  prefer to perform most of their studies in the lab .
Geologists are engaged in exploration for mining companies in search of metals , oils ,  और अन्य धरती संसाधन .
They are also in the forefront of natural hazards and disasters warning and mitigation , studying earthquakes , volcanic activity , tsunamis , weather storms , and the like ; their studies are used to warn the general  पब्लिक  of the occurrence of these events .
Currently , geologists are also engaged in  the  discussion of climate change , as they study the history and evidence for this Earth process .
Below is  a  comprehensive drill and tap size chart for all drills , imperial and metric , and taps up to 36.5 mm .
Modern  वैक्यूम  tubes , mostly miniature style
In electronics , a vacuum tube , electron tube ( in North America ) , thermionic valve , tube , or  वाल्व is a यंत्र controlling इलेक्ट्रिक वर्तमान through  a vacuum in a sealed container .
the संग्राहक is प्रायः  thin transparent glass in a roughly cylindrical shape .
The simplest vacuum tube , the diode , is  essentially  an incandescent light bulb with an added electrode inside .
When the bulb 's filament is heated white-hot ,  electrons  are `` boiled '' off its surface and into the vacuum inside the bulb .
If the electrode -- called a ``  थाली '' or `` धनाग्र '' -- is बना अधिक धनात्मक  than the hot filament , a direct current flows through the vacuum to the electrode ( a demonstration of the Edison effect ) .
As the current only flows in one direction , it makes it possible to convert an alternating current applied to the  फिलामेंट  to direct current .
The introduction of a third electrode ,  a  grid between the filament and the plate , yields another function .
A voltage applied to the grid controls  the वर्तमान  flowing from the filament to the plate .
Thus , it allows the  यंत्र to be प्रयुक्त  as an electronic amplifier .
Vacuum tubes are thus used for rectification , amplification , switching , or similar processing or creation of  विद्युत  signals .
The vast  बहुमत of आधुनिक दिन tubes consist of a sealed संग्राहक  with a vacuum inside , and essentially rely on thermionic emission of electrons from a hot filament or a cathode heated by the filament .
Some exceptions to this are  dealt साथ in the खण्ड  about gas-filled tubes below .
वैक्यूम  tubes were critical to the development of electronic technology , which drove the expansion and commercialization of radio broadcasting , television , radar , sound reinforcement , sound recording and reproduction , large telephone networks , analog and digital computers , and industrial process control .
Although some applications had counterparts using earlier technologies such as the spark gap transmitter or mechanical computers , it was the invention of the vacuum tube with three electrodes (  पुकारा a ट्रायोड ) और इसके काबिलियत  of electronic amplification that made these technologies widespread and practical .
In most applications , solid-state  डिवाइस ऐसे as transistors  and other semiconductor devices have replaced tubes .
Solid-state devices last longer and are smaller , more efficient , more  विश्वसनीय , और सस्ता  than tubes .
Tubes can be fragile , sometimes generate significant unwanted heat , and can take many  seconds—many मिनट्स in नाजुक applications—after powering on  to warm to a temperature where they perform within operational tolerance .
However , tubes still find uses where solid-state devices have not been developed , are impractical , or  जहाँ a  tube has superior performance , as with some devices in professional audio and high-power radio transmitters .
Tubes are still produced for such  अनुप्रयोग  .
Tubes are less likely than semiconductor devices to be destroyed  by the इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक  pulse produced by nuclear explosions and geomagnetic storms produced by giant solar flares .
Skittles is a brand of fruit-flavoured sweets , currently produced and marketed by the Wm . Wrigley Jr. Company ,   a division of Mars , Inc .
They have  मुश्किल  sugar shells which carry the letter S .
The inside is mainly sugar , corn syrup , and hydrogenated  ताड़ कर्नेल आयल साथ  with fruit juice , citric acid , and natural and artificial flavours .
The confectionery has been sold  in a किस्में of फ्लेवर  collections , such as Tropical and Wild Berry .
Sir Winston Leonard Spencer-Churchill ,  ( 30 नवम्बर 1874 – 24  January 1965 ) was a British politician who was the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom from 1940 to 1945 and again from 1951 to 1955 .
Widely regarded as one of the  महानतम wartime नेताओ  of the 20th century , Churchill was also an officer in the British Army , a historian , a writer , and an artist .
He is the  तभी अंग्रेजों प्रधान  Minister in history to have received the Nobel Prize in Literature , and was also the first person to be made an Honorary Citizen of the United States .
Churchill was born into an aristocratic family as the grandson of the  7th ड्यूक of marlborough  .
His father , Lord Randolph Churchill , was a charismatic politician who served as Chancellor of the  exchequer  ; his mother , Jennie Jerome , was an American socialite .
As a young  फौज  officer , he saw action in British India , The Sudan , and the Second Boer War .
He gained fame as a  युद्ध correspondent  and wrote books about his campaigns .
At the forefront of politics for fifty  सालो , he आयोजित अनेक राजनैतिक और कैबिनेट  positions .
Before  the पहला संसार युद्ध , he परोसा as अध्यक्ष of the फलक of व्यापार , घर सचिव , और पहला रब of the admiralty as भाग of the asquith उदार सरकारी .
During the war , he  जारी as पहला रब of  the Admiralty until the disastrous Gallipoli Campaign caused his departure from government .
He then briefly resumed active army service on the Western Front as  कमांडर of the 6th बटालियन  of the Royal Scots Fusiliers .
He returned to government as  मंत्री of munitions  , Secretary of State for War , and Secretary of State for Air .
After the War , Churchill served as Chancellor of the Exchequer in the Conservative ( Baldwin ) government of 1924–29 , controversially  returning the पाउंड स्टर्लिंग in 1925 to the  gold standard at its pre-war parity , a move widely seen as creating deflationary pressure on the UK economy .
Also controversial was  his  opposition to increased home rule for India and his resistance to the 1936 abdication of Edward VIII .
Out of office and  नीतियां `` in the wilderness '' दौरान the  1930s , Churchill took the lead in warning about Nazi Germany and in campaigning for rearmament .
On the outbreak of the Second World War , he was again appointed  पहला रब  of the Admiralty .
Following the resignation of Neville Chamberlain on 10 May 1940 ,  चर्चिल  became Prime Minister .
His steadfast refusal to consider defeat , surrender , or a compromise peace helped inspire British resistance , especially during the difficult early  दिनों of the युद्ध जब ब्रिटेन stood  alone among European countries in its active opposition to Adolf Hitler .
Churchill was particularly noted for his  भाषणों और रेडियो प्रसारण , जिससे  helped inspire the British people .
He led Britain as  Prime  Minister until victory over Nazi Germany had been secured .
After the Conservative Party lost the  1945 चुनाव , he became नेता  of the Opposition to the Labour ( Attlee ) government .
After winning the 1951  चुनाव , he again became  Prime Minister , before retiring in 1955 .
Upon his  मौत , एलिज़ाबेथ ii granted  him the honour of a state funeral , which saw one of the largest assemblies of world statesmen in history .
Named the Greatest Briton of all time in a 2002 poll , Churchill is widely regarded as being among the  सबसे influential लोगों  in British history .
Ruby Gloom is an animated television show  आधारित on  an apparel franchise .
The show is produced  by  Nelvana and began airing on October 13 , 2006 in Canada on the network YTV .
It stars the voices of Sarah Gadon , Emily Hampshire , and  पीटर keleghan  .
The  घाट फ़ोकस  is a compact car ( C-segment in Europe ) manufactured by the Ford Motor Company since 1998 .
Ford began sales of the Focus to Europe in July 1998 and in North America during 1999  लिये the 2000 मॉडल  year .
In Europe , South America , North  अमेरिका  and South Africa , the Focus replaced the various versions of the Ford Escort sold in those markets .
In Asia  और  Australasia , it replaced the Ford Laser .
As of the first half of 2012 , the Focus surpassed  the टोयोटा कोरोला  to become the world 's best selling automobile nameplate .
The Focus has been considered one of the 50 greatest cars of the past fifty years by  अंग्रेजों पत्रिका  CAR .
An agar plate --  an उदाहरण  of a bacterial growth medium .
Specifically , it is a streak plate ; the orange lines and dots  are  formed by bacterial colonies .
A growth medium or culture medium is a liquid or gel designed to support the growth of microorganisms or  कोशिकाएं , or छोटी  plants like the moss Physcomitrella patens .
There are  अलग प्रकार  of media for growing different types of cells .
There are two major types of growth media : those used for cell culture , which use specific cell types derived from plants or animals , and  microbiological संस्कृति ,  which are used for growing microorganisms , such as bacteria or yeast .
The most  common  growth media for microorganisms are nutrient broths and agar plates ; specialized media are sometimes required for microorganism and cell culture growth .
Some organisms , termed fastidious organisms , require  specialized environments  due to complex nutritional requirements .
Viruses , for example , are  obligate intracellular परजीवी  and require a growth medium containing living cells .
A talent agent , or booking agent , is a person who finds jobs for actors , authors , film directors , musicians , models , producers , professional athletes , writers and other people in  विभिन्न entertainment  businesses .
An  एजेंट भी defends  , supports and promotes the interest of his/her clients .
Agents can not produce their own shows due  to विरोध of ब्याज  .
A talent agent must  be परिचित  with their clients .
An agent has to know what kind of work the client can and can not do in order to match  उन्हें साथ विभिन्न  jobs .
Having an agent is not required , but does help the artist in  getting कार्य  .
In  अनेक मामले ढलाई निर्देशकों , or अन्य  businesses , go to talent agencies to find artists they are looking for .
The  एजेंट is सशुल्क a प्रतिशत  of the star 's earnings ( typically 10 % ) .
Agents  sometimes होगा  be referred to as `` 10 percenters . ''
There are different regulations that govern different types of agents that  हैं  established by artist 's unions and the legal jurisdiction in which the agent operates .
There are also professional organizations  कि अनुज्ञा  talent agencies .
Since the decline in viewership in theaters , from the 1950s to 1960s , this  caused a स्मारकीय शिफ़्ट in  how studios would produce films and thus reducing the cost of exclusive and expensive actors .
अभिनेताओं  and actresses were working for the studios but were not owned by one major studio entity and so were able to work on within their time and with other studios .
Because of this , agents were now seen as a necessity  बजाय of  an option .
Agents now became third parties that negotiated between studios and  क्लाइंट , इस बनाना उनके  services imperative between each party .
Since talent agencies are working with lucrative contracts , all talent agencies must be licensed under special sections of the California Labor Code ,  जिससे  calls an agent a `` person or corporation who engages in the occupation of procuring , offering , promising , or attempting to procure employment for artist or artists . ''
Mars has two known  moons , phobos और deimos , जिससे  are thought to be captured asteroids .
Both satellites were  खोजा in 1877  by Asaph Hall and are named after the characters Phobos ( panic/fear ) and Deimos ( terror/dread ) who , in Greek mythology , accompanied their father Ares , god of war , into battle .
Ares was known as   Mars to the Romans .
It is possible that Mars may have moons smaller than 50 - 100 meters and a  धूल रिंग between phobos  and Deimos may be present but none have been discovered .
In law enforcement parlance , the term murder book refers  to  the case file of a murder investigation .
Typically , murder books include crime scene photographs and sketches , autopsy and forensic reports ,  transcripts of जांचकर्ताओं  ' notes and witness interviews .
The murder book encapsulates the complete paper trail of a murder investigation , from the time the murder is first  reported through  the arrest of a suspect .
Law enforcement agencies typically guard murder books carefully , and it is unusual for civilians to be given unfettered access to these kinds of records , especially  लिये अनसुलझा  cases .
A melon  baller
melon गेंदें हैं गेंदें of melon बना using a melon baller कि varies इससे around 1 centimeter to 3 सेंटीमीटर ( परिचय 3/8 इंच to 1 इंच ) .
They are generally  प्रयुक्त in  fruit salad .
A KSA , or  ज्ञान , कौशल , और abilities  , is a series of narrative statements that are required when applying to United States Federal government job openings .
KSAs are  used to  determine , along with resumes , who the best applicants are when several candidates qualify for a job .
The knowledge , skills and  abilities ( ksas  ) necessary for the successful performance of a position are contained on each job vacancy announcement .
In 2009 the Office of Personal Management asked federal agencies to stop requiring job applicants to fill out the  questionnaires , to be phased आउट  within a year .
KSAs are  ब्रैड और केन्द्रित essays परिचय एक 's  career and educational background that presumably qualify one to perform the duties of the position being applied for .
A knowledge , skills , and abilities ( KSA ) is a concise essay about one 's talent and  विशेषज्ञता और सम्बन्धित अनुभवों  ( work , education , volunteer ) and accomplishments .
A series of KSA statements are usually required  जब applying  for most federal government and some state and city government jobs .
KSAs are used  as a गज to assess the सामर्थ्य  of a prospective applicant in terms of likely ability to perform the duties of the job .
Most  सरकारी भर्ती  officials look for a short , crisp and clear KSA that emphasizes results or accomplishments obtained in previous work .
KSA statements are  भी ज्ञात  as Evaluation Factors .
Other agencies sometimes call them `` Rating Factors '' , `` Quality Ranking  कारकों '' ,  `` Knowledge , Abilities , skills and Other Characteristics '' , or `` Job Elements '' .
The  नाम can be बस a नाम लकिन प्रायः  it influences content and length of the essay .
Every agency has its own regulations but most of  the समय the  each KSA factor should be 1/2 to 11⁄2 pages long .
The below definitions are defined by the U.S. Office of Personnel  प्रबन्धन :
Knowledge , Skills , and Abilities (  ksas ) - the गुण जरूरी  to perform a job and are generally demonstrated through qualifying service , education , or training .
Knowledge - Is a body of information applied directly to  the प्रदर्शन of a  function .
Skill - Is an observable competence to perform a learned  psychomotor  act .
Ability - Is competence to  perform an  observable behavior or a behavior that results in an observable product .
The scoring of KSA essays  is आधारित  on a scale of from one to 100 .
Job  आवेदकों  must score above 70 to be considered for the position .
High scores are derived through answering the KSA  सवाल as  specifically as possible , providing examples from previous employment or training that clearly demonstrate you meet the qualifications .
When applying to federal government positions , a Federal Resume is usually required in addition to KSA  कथन  .
सही
Whole grains are cereal grains that contain cereal germ , endosperm , and bran , in contrast to  परिष्कृत दाने ,  which retain only the endosperm .
Common whole  दाने  include:
गेहूं
oat
Barley -  hulled और  Dehulled ( not Pearl )
मक्का
भूरा  rice
farro
spelt
emmer
einkorn
kamut
rye
बाजरा
quinoa
चौलाई
triticale
teff
sprouted  Grains
buckwheat
Common whole grain  उत्पाद  include:
Whole  गेहूं  flour
पूरे  wheat Bread
पूरे  wheat Pasta
Rolled oats or oat  groats
Triticale  आटा
पॉपकॉर्न
Teff  आटा
Common refined  non-whole  grain products include:
Love Always is the debut album of American R & B duo K-Ci & JoJo , released on June 17 , 1997 , by MCA  रिकॉर्ड  .
It was recorded at various  studios in नई यॉर्क  and the Los Angeles area in 1996 and 1997 .
It was produced by JoJo and several others , including DeVante Swing , James Mtume , and Jeff  redd  .
The duo  यहूद originally  a part of Jodeci before this album .
The album peaked at sixth  on the us बिलबोर्ड  200 and also appeared on international charts .
The single `` All My Life `` charted number one in multiple countries , and all four of the album 's singles peaked  ऊपर the  top 25 in the US Hot R & B/Hip-Hop Songs and the New Zealand Top 40 Singles .
Love Always was received favorably by critics ,  जो praised the  brothers ' singing ability and the production .
The album has been certified three times platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America ( RIAA )  और सुनहरा by म्यूज़िक कनाडा और ifpi स्वीडन  .
As of June 1999 it had sold 2.9 million copies  in the संयुक्त  States .
A variable-rate mortgage , adjustable-rate  बंधक  ( ARM ) , or tracker mortgage is a mortgage loan with the interest rate on the note periodically adjusted based on an index which reflects the cost to the lender of borrowing on the credit markets .
The loan   may be offered at the lender 's standard variable rate/ base rate .
There may be a direct and legally-defined link to the underlying index , but where the lender offers no specific link to  the underlying मार्केट or अनुक्रमणिका the  rate can be changed at the lender 's discretion .
The term `` variable-rate  बंधक '' is सबसे आम बाहर the संयुक्त राज्य  , whilst in the United States , `` adjustable-rate mortgage '' is most common , and implies a mortgage regulated by the Federal government , with caps on charges .
In many  देशों ,  adjustable rate mortgages are the norm , and in such places , may simply be referred to as mortgages .
Among the most common indices are the rates on 1-year constant-maturity Treasury ( CMT ) securities , the Cost of Funds Index ( COFI ) , and the London  interbank offered  Rate ( LIBOR ) .
A few lenders use their own cost of  निधि as  an index , rather than using other indices .
This is done  to ensure a स्थिर हाशिया लिये the lender  , whose own cost of funding will usually be related to the index .
Consequently , payments made by the  borrower may बदलें over समय साथ the बदलना  interest rate ( alternatively , the term of the loan may change ) .
This is  पृथक इससे the ग्रैजुएट  payment mortgage , which offers changing payment amounts but a fixed interest rate .
Other forms of mortgage loan include the interest only mortgage , the fixed rate mortgage , the negative amortization  बंधक , और the गुब्बारा  payment mortgage .
Adjustable rates transfer part of the   interest rate risk from the lender to the borrower .
They can be used where unpredictable interest rates make fixed rate loans difficult to  obtain .
The borrower   benefits if the interest rate falls but loses if the interest rate increases .
The borrower benefits from reduced margins to the underlying cost of  उधार compared to फिक्स्ड or  capped rate mortgages .
The assassination of Robert Francis `` Bobby '' Kennedy , a United States Senator and brother of assassinated President John Fitzgerald ``  जोकर '' कैनेडी , took प्लेस  shortly after midnight on June 5 , 1968 , in Los Angeles , California , during the campaign season for the United States Presidential election , 1968 .
After winning the California and South Dakota primary elections for  the लोकतांत्रिक नामांकन लिये  President of the United States , Kennedy was shot as he walked through the kitchen of the Ambassador Hotel and died in the Good Samaritan Hospital twenty-six hours later .
Sirhan Sirhan , a 24-year-old  फिलीस्तीनी / जार्डन  immigrant , was convicted of Kennedy 's murder and is serving a life sentence for the crime .
Sirhan 's lawyers have released  कथन claiming प्रमाण  that he was framed .
The shooting was recorded on audio tape by a freelance  समाचारपत्र  reporter , and the aftermath was captured on film .
Kennedy 's body lay in repose at  st. पैट्रिक 's  Cathedral in New York for two days before a funeral mass was held on June 8 .
His body was interred near his   brother John at Arlington National Cemetery .
His death prompted the protection of presidential candidates by  the संयुक्त राज्य  Secret Service .
Hubert Humphrey went on to win the  लोकतांत्रिक नामांकन लिये the प्रेसिडेंसी  , but ultimately narrowly lost the election to Richard Nixon .
As with his brother Jack 's death , Bobby 's assassination and the circumstances surrounding it have  शाखित a किस्में of षड्यंत्र theories  .
As  of 2013 कैनेडी remains  one of only two sitting United States Senators to be assassinated ( the other being Huey Long ) .
The Modern Age of Comic Books is an informal name for the period in the history of mainstream American  कॉमिक किताबे generally माना to पिछला  from the mid-1980s until present day .
In this period , comic book characters generally became darker and more psychologically complex , creators became better-known and active in  बदलना the उद्योग , स्वतंत्र कॉमिक्स  flourished , and larger publishing houses became more commercialized .
An alternate name for this period is the Dark Age of Comic Books , due to the popularity and artistic influence of grim titles , such as  और वॉचमेन  .
When Harry Met Sally ... is a 1989 American  रोमांटिक कॉमेडी  film written by Nora Ephron and directed by Rob Reiner .
It stars Billy  क्रिस्टल  as Harry and Meg Ryan as Sally .
The story follows the title characters from the time they meet just before sharing a cross-country drive  , through  twelve years or so of chance encounters in New York City .
The film  उठाता the सवाल `` can मेन और महिलाओं  ever just be friends ? '' and advances many ideas about relationships that became household concepts , such as those of the `` '' girlfriend and the `` transitional person '' .
The origins of the film came  इससे  Reiner 's return to single life after a divorce .
An interview Ephron conducted  साथ reiner  provided the basis for Harry .
Sally was based on Ephron and some  of उसके  friends .
Crystal came on board and made his own contributions to  the पटकथा , बनाना  Harry funnier .
Ephron supplied the structure of the film with much of the dialogue  आधारित  on the real-life friendship between Reiner and Crystal .
The soundtrack consists of standards  performed by हैरी  Connick , Jr. , with a big band and orchestra arranged by Marc Shaiman .
Connick  जीती उसके पहला ग्रैमी  Award for Best Jazz Male Vocal Performance .
Columbia Pictures released the film using the `` platform '' technique , which involved opening it in a few select cities , letting positive word of  मुँह generate  interest , and then gradually expanding distribution over subsequent weeks .
When Harry Met Sally ... grossed a total of US $ 92 .8 million in   North America .
Ephron  प्राप्त a अंग्रेजों  Academy Film Award , an Oscar nomination , and a Writers Guild of America Award nomination for her screenplay .
The film is ranked 23rd on AFI 's 100 Years ... 100 Laughs list of the top comedy films in American  सिनेमा और क्रमांक 60 on ब्रावो 's `` 100 funniest फिल्मों  '' .
In early 2004 , the film was adapted  लिये the स्टेज in a उत्पादन अभिनीत  Luke Perry and Alyson Hannigan .
200px
Hamburger Helper is a line of packaged food  उत्पाद primarily consisting  of boxed pasta bundled with a packet or packets of powdered sauce or seasonings .
The  सामग्री of प्रत्येक बक्सा हैं संयुक्त  with browned ground beef , water and milk to create a complete dish .
The product line also  सुविधाएँ उत्पाद साथ  other starches such as rice or potatoes instead of pasta .
It is made by  सामान्य  Mills .
हालांकि  the classic boxed Hamburger Helper products only supply the starch item and the sauce packets , some varieties of the product include ground beef .
These include a frozen food line , which features some of the brand 's classic varieties in a complete meal kit form , with frozen ground  बीफ और frozen सॉस packaged separately  from the noodles in the same bag .
There  is भी an `` तत्काल '' संस्करण of हैमबर्गर  Helper containing dehydrated meat , noodles and seasonings in a small pouch , requiring only water to be added .
The Hamburger Helper mascot is the `` Helping Hand '' , an anthropomorphic animated , four fingered left-hand glove , which  appears in the  product 's television commercials and on the packages .
Ceres as seen with  the हबल  Space Telescope .
It is  the तभी  dwarf planet in the asteroid belt .
Pluto in  सन्निकट  true colour based on Hubble Space Telescope albedo data
Haumea  साथ इसके moons , hiʻiaka  and Namaka ( artist 's conception )
Makemake ( artist 's  धारणा  )
Eris and its moon Dysnomia as seen  साथ the हबल  Space Telescope
A dwarf planet is a planetary-mass object that is  neither a ग्रह  nor a satellite .
More explicitly , the International Astronomical Union ( IAU ) defines a dwarf planet as a celestial body in direct orbit of the Sun that is massive enough for its shape to be controlled by  gravitation , लकिन कि नापसंद  a planet has not cleared its orbital region of other objects .
The term dwarf planet was adopted in 2006 as part of a three-way categorization of bodies orbiting the Sun , brought about by an increase in discoveries of  trans-neptunian वस्तुएँ कि rivaled प्लूटो in आकार , और आखिरकार precipitated by the डिस्कवरी of  an even more massive object , Eris .
This classification states that bodies large enough to have cleared the neighbourhood of their orbit are defined as planets , while those that are not massive enough to be rounded by  उनके अपना गम्भीरता हैं  defined as small Solar System bodies .
बौना ग्रह  come in between .
The exclusion of dwarf  ग्रह  from the roster of planets by the IAU has been both praised and criticized ; it was said to be the `` right decision '' by Mike Brown , who discovered and other new dwarf planets , but has been rejected by Alan Stern , who had coined the term dwarf planet in 1990 .
The IAU currently recognizes five dwarf planets in  the सौर प्रणाली  : , Pluto , , , and .
However , only two of these bodies  , ceres  and Pluto , have been observed in enough detail to demonstrate that they fit the definition .
Eris has been accepted as a dwarf  ग्रह क्युकी it is  more massive than Pluto .
The IAU subsequently decided that unnamed trans-Neptunian objects with an absolute magnitude brighter than +1  ( और hence a व्यास of ≥838 km assuming a ज्यामितीय  albedo of ≤1 ) are to be named under the assumption that they are dwarf planets .
The only two such objects known at the time , Makemake and Haumea , went through  इस नामकरण कार्यविधि  and were declared to be dwarf planets .
It is suspected that another hundred or so known objects in the Solar System  हैं बौना ग्रह  .
Estimates are that up to 200  बौना  planets may be found when the entire region known as the Kuiper belt is explored , and that the number may exceed 10,000 when objects scattered outside the Kuiper belt are considered .
Individual astronomers recognize several of these , and in August 2011 Mike Brown published a list of 390 candidate objects  , ranging from `` nearly  certain '' to `` possible '' dwarf planets . '
Brown identifies nine known objects – the five accepted by the  iau  plus , , , and – as `` virtually certain '' , with another two dozen highly likely , and there are probably a hundred or so such objects in total .
The classification of bodies in other planetary  प्रणालियों साथ the विशेषताएँ  of dwarf planets has not been addressed .
A debit card ( also known as a bank card or check card ) is a plastic  भुगतान कार्ड कि provides the cardholder इलेक्ट्रॉनिक अभिगम  to his or her bank account ( s ) at a financial institution .
Some cards have a stored value with which a payment is made , while most relay a message to the cardholder 's bank to  withdraw निधि इससे a payee 's designated  bank account .
The card , where accepted , can  be  used instead of cash when making purchases .
In some cases , the primary account number is assigned  exclusively लिये उपयोग on  the Internet and there is no physical card .
In many countries , the use of debit cards has become so widespread that their volume has overtaken or entirely replaced cheques and , in some instances ,  नकदी ट्रांजेक्शन  .
The development of debit cards ,  नापसंद क्रेडिट  cards and charge cards , has generally been country specific resulting in a number of different systems around the world , which were often incompatible .
Since the mid-2000s , a number of initiatives have allowed debit cards issued in one country to be used in other countries and allowed their use for  अंतरजाल और फोन  purchases .
Unlike credit and charge cards , payments using a debit card are  तत्काल  transferred from the cardholder 's designated bank account , instead of them paying the money back at a later date .
Debit cards usually also allow for instant withdrawal of cash , acting  as the  ATM card for withdrawing cash .
Merchants may also offer cashback facilities to customers , where a  ग्राहक can withdraw  cash along with their purchase .
Francois Henri `` Jack '' LaLanne ( September 26 , 1914 - January 23 , 2011 ) was an American  फ़िटनेस , कसरत , और nutritional  expert and motivational speaker who is sometimes called `` the godfather of fitness '' and the `` first fitness superhero . ''
He described  खुद as होने a `` sugarholic  '' and a `` junk food junkie '' until he was 15 .
He also had behavioral problems ,  but  `` turned his life around '' after listening to a public lecture by Paul Bragg , a well-known nutrition speaker .
During his career , he came to  मानना कि the देश 's overall  health depended on the health of its population , writing that `` physical culture and nutrition — is the salvation of America . ''
Decades  पहले स्वास्थ्य और फ़िटनेस  began being promoted by celebrities like Jane Fonda and Richard Simmons , LaLanne was already widely recognized for publicly preaching the health benefits of regular exercise and a good diet .
He published  numerous  books on fitness and hosted a fitness television show between 1953 and 1985 .
As early as 1936 , at age 21 , he opened one of the nation 's first fitness gyms in Oakland , California , which became a  प्रोटोटाइप लिये दर्जनों of समान  gyms using his name .
One of his 1950s television exercise programs was aimed toward women , whom he also  प्रोत्साहित to जुड़ें उसके स्वास्थ्य क्लब  .
He invented a number of  कसरत  machines , including leg-extension and pulley devices .
besides producing उसके अपना  series of videos , he coached the elderly and disabled not to forgo exercise , believing it would enable them to enhance their strength .
LaLanne also gained recognition for his success as a  bodybuilder , as खूब as  for his prodigious feats of strength .
Arnold Schwarzenegger once stated , `` That Jack LaLanne 's an animal ! , '' after LaLanne , at 54 , beat a  21-year-old  Schwarzenegger `` badly '' in an informal contest .
On the occasion of LaLanne 's death , Schwarzenegger credited LaLanne for being `` an apostle for fitness '' by inspiring `` billions all over the world to live healthier lives , '' and , as governor of California , had   earlier placed him on his Governor 's Council on Physical Fitness .
Steve Reeves credited LaLanne as his  प्रेरणा  to build his muscular physique while keeping a slim waist .
He was inducted to the California Hall of Fame  और रै  a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame .
Air forces of most of the countries use  प्रणाली समान  to Armies .
However , the RAF and the air forces of many Commonwealth countries , or those formerly under a British influence , use a different set of  बाँधने loosely आधारित on नवल समतुल्यता ; लेफ्टिनेंट , कमांडर , कप्तान और commodore हैं prefixed लिये एयर फ़ोर्स  use with Flight , Wing , Group and Air , respectively ( the first three being the units that they used to command ) .
Penélope Cruz Sánchez ( ; born April 28 , 1974 ) is a Spanish  अभिनेत्री  .
Signed by an agent at age 15 , she made her acting debut at 16 on television and her feature film debut the following year in Jamón , jamón ( 1992  ) , to नाजुक acclaim  .
Her  subsequent भूमिकाएँ in the 1990s  and 2000s included Open Your Eyes ( 1997 ) , The Hi-Lo Country ( 1999 ) , The Girl of Your Dreams ( 2000 ) and Woman on Top ( 2000 ) .
Cruz achieved  मान्यता लिये  her lead roles in the 2001 films Vanilla Sky and Blow .
She has since built a successful career , appearing in films from a wide range of genres ,  सहित  the comedy Waking Up in Reno ( 2002 ) , the thriller Gothika ( 2003 ) , the Christmas movie Noel ( 2004 ) , and the action adventure Sahara ( 2005 ) .
She has  प्राप्त नाजुक acclaim लिये उसके  roles in Volver ( 2006 ) and Nine ( 2009 ) receiving Golden Globe and Academy Award nominations for each .
She won the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress in 2008 for Vicky Cristina  बार्सिलोना  .
She was the first Spanish actress in history to receive an Academy Award and the first Spanish actress to  प्राप्त  a star at the Hollywood Walk of Fame .
Cruz has  modeled लिये कंपनियाँ ऐसे  as Mango , Ralph Lauren and L'Oréal .
Penélope and  उसके  younger sister Mónica Cruz have designed items for Mango .
वो  has donated both her time and money to charities .
Cruz has volunteered in Uganda and India , where  वो खर्च एक सप्ताह working लिये माँ टेरेसा  ; she donated her salary from ' to help fund the late nun 's mission .
A wax  मूर्तिकला  of Cruz will be placed in a premier spot in the Grevin Wax Museum in Paris .
File Explorer , previously known as Windows Explorer , is a file manager application  and also a  navigation tool that is included with releases of the Microsoft Windows operating system from Windows 95 onwards .
It  provides a आलेखीय  user interface for accessing the file systems .
It is also the component of the operating system that presents many user interface items on the  मॉनिटर ऐसे as  the taskbar and desktop .
Controlling the computer is possible without Windows Explorer running ( for example , the File | Run command in Task Manager  on nt-derived  versions of Windows will function without it , as will commands typed in a command prompt window ) .
Located in the C : \Windows directory , it is sometimes referred  to as the Windows  shell , explorer.exe , or simply “Explorer” .
The Care Bears are characters created by American  बधाई in 1981 लिये उपयोग on ग्रीटिंग  cards .
The  असली कलाकृति लिये the  cards was painted by artist Elena Kucharik .
In 1983 , Kenner  turned  the Care Bears into plush teddy bears .
The Care Bears appeared in their own TV specials called The Care Bears in the Land Without  जज्बात  ( 1983 ) and The Care Bears Battle the Freeze Machine ( 1984 ) .
They  भी था उनके अपना  television series from 1985 to 1988 , in addition to three feature films : The Care Bears Movie ( 1985 ) , Care Bears Movie II : A New Generation ( 1986 ) , and The Care Bears Adventure in Wonderland ( 1987 ) .
Each Care Bear comes in a different  रंग और रै a specialized  insignia on its belly that represents its duty and personality .
This insignia was known as their ``  tummy प्रतीक .  ''
However , the movie Care Bears : Oopsy Does  it ! renamed  them `` belly badges '' .
Adding to the Care Bear family are the `` Care Bear Cousins '' , which feature a lion , rabbit , penguin , raccoon ,  और अन्य ऐसे पशु निर्मित in the  same style as the teddy bears .
In 2002 , the bears  यहूद reintroduced  with new toys .
Made by Play-Along Toys , the new toys offered features such as illuminated bellies upon touch , aerobic  bears , और glow-in-the-dark  bears .
As part of this comeback , the Bears have appeared in  दो computer-animated  movies : Care Bears : Journey to Joke-a-lot ( 2004 ) and The Care Bears ' Big Wish Movie ( 2005 ) .
In 2007 , the franchise  मनाये इसके 25th वर्षगांठ  ; another relaunch took place , as well as the release of Care Bears : Oopsy Does It ! .
In mid-2011 , AG announced a revival TV animated  श्रेणी titled `` परवाह  Bears : Welcome to Care-a-Lot `` .
The  प्रीमियर of the श्रेणी  utilizes `` 30 years of caring '' .
It premiered on The  हब on जून  2 , 2012 .
As of 2013 , Care Bears merchandise  is स्टिल  being marketed .
During 2008 and 2009 , Canada 's Cookie Jar Group and  फ़्रांस 's moonscoop समूह attempted to acquire the मताधिकार  from AGC , with no apparent success .
Interstate 70 ( I-70 ) is an Interstate Highway in the United States that runs from  अंतरराज्यीय  15 near Cove Fort , Utah , to a Park and Ride near Baltimore , Maryland .
It was the first Interstate Highway project in  the संयुक्त  States .
I-70 approximately traces the  पाथ of u.S. रूट  40 ( and also the old National Road ) east of the Rocky Mountains .
West of the  rockies , the  route of I-70 was derived from multiple sources .
I-70 is the fifth longest Interstate Highway , after  i-90 , i-80 , i-40 , और  I-10 .
The construction of  i-70 in कोलोराडो और यूटा is माना an अभियान्त्रिकी  marvel as the route passes through the Eisenhower Tunnel , Glenwood Canyon , and the San Rafael Swell .
The Eisenhower Tunnel  is the उच्चतम  point along the Interstate Highway system with an elevation of .
The sections  of the अंतरराज्यीय in मिसौरी  and Kansas have laid claim to be the first interstate in the United States .
हालांकि विवादित , the संघीय राजमार्ग प्रशासन रै claimed the खण्ड of i-70 through glenwood canyon , समाप्त in 1992 , थी the पिछला टुकड़ा of the अंतरराज्यीय राजमार्ग प्रणाली , as originally नियोजित , to खोलें to ट्रैफ़िक .
Photo of 1999  कुल ग्रहण
As seen from the Earth , a solar eclipse occurs when the  चंद्रमा  passes between the Sun and Earth , and the Moon fully or partially blocks ( `` occults `` ) the Sun .
This  can happen तभी at  new moon , when the Sun and the Moon are in conjunction as seen from Earth in an alignment referred to as syzygy .
In a total eclipse , the disk of the  सूर्य is fully  obscured by the Moon .
In partial and annular eclipses only  भाग  of the Sun is obscured .
If the Moon were in a  perfectly गोलाकार कक्षा , a छोटी  closer to the Earth , and in the same orbital plane , there would be total solar eclipses every single month .
However , the Moon 's orbit is  inclined ( tilted ) at अधिक than 5 डिग्री to धरती 's कक्षा  around the Sun ( see ecliptic ) so its shadow at new moon usually misses Earth .
Earth 's orbit is called the ecliptic plane as the Moon 's orbit must cross this plane in order for an eclipse ( both solar as  खूब as  lunar ) to occur .
In addition , the Moon 's actual orbit is elliptical , often taking it far enough away from Earth that its apparent size is not large enough   to block the Sun totally .
The orbital planes cross each year at a line  of नोड resulting in at तनिक दो  , and up to five , solar eclipses occurring each year ; no more than two of which can be total eclipses .
However , total solar eclipses are rare at any particular location because totality exists only along a  सीमित पाथ on धरती  's surface traced by the Moon 's shadow or umbra .
An  ग्रहण is a  natural phenomenon .
Nevertheless , in some ancient and  आधुनिक संस्कृतियों , सौर  eclipses have been attributed to supernatural causes or regarded as bad omens .
A total solar eclipse can be frightening to  लोगों जो हैं बेखबर of इसके खगोलीय  explanation , as the Sun seems to disappear during the day and the sky darkens in a matter of minutes .
Because it is dangerous to look directly at the Sun , observers should use special eye protection or indirect  देखने तकनीकों जब देखने a आंशिक ग्रहण  , or the partial phases of a total eclipse .
It is safe to view the total phase of a total solar eclipse with the unaided eye and without  सुरक्षा , however .
People referred to as eclipse chasers or umbraphiles will travel to  रिमोट स्थितियाँ to observe  or witness predicted central solar eclipses .
A political party ( from , Genitive partis , ``  भाग '' ,  `` portion '' ) is a political organization that typically seeks to influence , or entirely control , government policy , usually by nominating candidates with aligned political views and trying to seat them in political office .
Parties participate in electoral campaigns and educational   outreach or protest actions .
Parties often espouse an ideology  or दृष्टि , expressed  in a party program , bolstered by a written platform with specific goals , forming a coalition among disparate interests .
The mango is a fleshy stone fruit belonging to the genus Mangifera  , consisting of numerous तीव्र  fruiting trees in the flowering plant family Anacardiaceae .
The mango is native to South Asia , from where it has been distributed worldwide to become one of the most  cultivated फल in the  tropics .
While other Mangifera species ( e.g . horse mango , M. foetida ) are also grown on a more localized basis , Mangifera indica – the 'common mango ' or 'Indian mango ' – is the only mango tree commonly  cultivated in अनेक तीव्र और उपोष्ण  regions .
It is the  नेशनल फल of इण्डिया  , Pakistan and Philippines .
In several  संस्कृतियों , इसके फल और पत्ते हैं ritually  used as floral decorations at weddings , public celebrations and religious ceremonies .
Gill Arnette Byrd , < ref name > http : //www.pro-football-reference.com/players/B/ByrdGi00.htm ( born  फ़रवरी 20  , 1961 in San Francisco , California ) is a former professional American football player .
He was a two time Pro Bowl cornerback in 1991 and 1992 for the San Diego Chargers after graduating from San  जोस राज्य विश्वविद्यालयों .
Byrd  थी inducted into  the Chargers Hall of Fame in 1998 .
He was an All-City running back and defensive back at Lowell High School ( San Francisco ) , helping to lead   the Cardinals to the city championship in his senior season of 1978 .
World  मैप प्रर्दशित  the Tropic of Cancer
The Tropic of Cancer , also referred to as the Northern tropic , is the circle of latitude on  the धरती कि marks  the most northerly position at which the Sun may appear directly overhead at its zenith .
This event occurs once per year , at the time of the June solstice , when the  उत्तरी गोलार्ध is tilted toward the सूर्य to इसके  maximum extent .
It currently ( Year 2013 ) lies at 23°  26′ 15.143′′  north of the Equator .
Its Southern Hemisphere counterpart , marking the most southerly position at which the Sun may  appear सीधे ओवरहेड  , is the Tropic of Capricorn .
These tropics are two of the five major degree measures or major  वृत्त of अक्षांश  that mark maps of the Earth , besides the Arctic and Antarctic Circles and the Equator .
the स्थितियाँ of ये वृत्त of अक्षांश ( अन्य than the equator ) हैं लिखवाई by the झुकाव of the धरती 's अक्ष of रोटेशन सापेक्ष to the प्लेन of इसके कक्षा .
DVD-Video is a consumer video format used to store digital video on DVD discs , and  is फिलहाल the  dominant consumer video format in Asia , North America , Europe , and Australia .
Discs using the DVD-Video specification require a DVD drive and an H.262/MPEG-2 Part 2 decoder ( e.g. , a DVD player , or a computer DVD drive with a  तन्त्र dvd खिलाड़ी  ) .
Commercial DVD movies are  एनकोडेड using a संयोजन of h.262/mpeg-2 भाग 2 संपीडित वीडियो और ऑडियो of varying स्वरुप ( प्रायः multi-channel स्वरुप as वर्णित नीचे ) .
Typically , the data rate for DVD movies ranges from 3 Mbit/s to 9.5 Mbit/s , and the  बिट रेट is प्रायः  adaptive .
It was first available for  खुदरा around  1997 .
The  dvd-video specification  was created by DVD Forum and can be obtained from DVD Format/Logo Licensing Corporation for a fee of $ 5,000 .
The  specification is नहीं सरेआम  available , because every subscriber must sign a non-disclosure agreement .
निश्चित सूचना  in the DVD Book is proprietary and confidential .
In  कम्प्यूटिंग और specifically  Internet , a leech is one who benefits , usually deliberately , from others ' information or effort but does not offer anything in return , or makes only token offerings in an attempt to avoid being called a leech .
In economics , this type of behavior is called `` free riding '' and is  संबद्ध  with the free rider problem .
Depending on context , leeching does not necessarily refer to illegal use of computer resources , but often instead to greedy use according to etiquette : to  wit , using too much of कया is freely दिए  without contributing a reasonable amount back to the community that provides it .
The name derives from the leech , an animal that sucks blood and  तब कोशिशें to छोड़ unnoticed  .
Other terms are used , such as ``  freeloader '' , लकिन  leech is the most common .
The full eagle logo , used in various  संस्करण इससे  1970 to 1993 .
The United States Postal Service ( USPS ) , also known as the Post Office and U.S. Mail , is an independent  एजेंसी of the संयुक्त राज्य संघीय सरकारी जिम्मेदार लिये  providing postal service in the United States .
It is one of the   few government agencies explicitly authorized by the United States Constitution .
The USPS traces its roots to 1775 during the Second Continental Congress , where Benjamin  फ्रैंकलिन थी नियुक्त the पहला postmaster  general .
The cabinet-level Post Office Department was  निर्मित in 1792 इससे फ्रैंकलिन 's  operation and transformed into its current form in 1971 under the Postal Reorganization Act .
The USPS  employs over 574,000  workers and operates over 260,000 vehicles .
The USPS is the operator of the largest  गाडी बेड़े  in the world .
The USPS is legally obligated  to serve सब अमेरिकी , regardless of भूगोल  , at uniform price and quality .
The USPS has exclusive access to letter boxes marked `` U.S. Mail '' and personal  letterboxes in the संयुक्त राज्य , लकिन स्टिल competes  against private package delivery services , such as UPS and FedEx .
The  usps रै नहीं सीधे प्राप्त  taxpayer-dollars since the early 1980s with the minor exception of subsidies for costs associated with the disabled and overseas voters .
Since the 2006 all-time peak  मेल आवाज़ , बाद जिससे कॉंग्रेस passed the डाक  Accountability and Enhancement Act `` , ( which mandated $ 5.5 billion per year to be paid into an account to pre-fund retiree health-care , 75 years into the future , a requirement unique among organizations and businesses in the U.S. ) , revenue dropped sharply due to recession-influenced declining mail volume , prompting the postal service to look to other sources of revenue while cutting costs to reduce its budget deficit .
वॉशिंगटन , d.C. रै महरूम the  capital of the United States since 1800 .
Eight other cities have served as the meeting  प्लेस लिये कॉंग्रेस और हैं  therefore considered to have once been the capital of the United States .
In  जोड , प्रत्येक of the 50 u.S.  states and the five principal territories of the United States maintains its own capital .
Princess cut diamond set in a  रिंग
The Princess cut is the second most popular cut  आकार लिये ईंट  , next to a round brilliant .
The face-up shape of the princess cut is square or rectangular and the profile or side-on shape is similar to that of an  उलट पिरामिड साथ चार beveled पहलू  .
The princess cut is a relatively new diamond cut , having been  निर्मित in the 1960s  .
It has gained in popularity in recent years as a more distinctive  वैकल्पिक to the अधिक लोकप्रिय गोलाकार शानदार काटें  , in which the top of diamond , called the crown , is cut with a round face-up shape and the bottom , called the pavilion , is shaped similar to a cone .
A  राजकुमारी काटें साथ the  same width as the diameter of a round brilliant will weigh more as it has four corners which would otherwise have been cut off and rounded to form a round brilliant .
The princess cut is sometimes referred   to as a square modified brilliant .
However , while displaying the same high degree of brilliance , its faceting style is unique and completely   different from that of a round brilliant .
The Princess cut had its origins in the early `` French '' cut , having a step-modified `` Double-French '' or `` Cross '' cut crown and a series of unique ,  chevron-shaped facets  in the pavilion which combine to give a distinct cross-shaped reflection when the stone is viewed directly through the table .
Effectively , the Princess cut combines the high degree of light return of a  गोलाकार शानदार  cut with a distinctive square or rectangular shape .
The square princess cut diamond is usually slightly cheaper than round brilliant cut diamonds of the same carat weight because it retains about 80 % of the rough diamond , as opposed to  the  round brilliant which retains only about 50 % of the rough .
The ability to retain more crystal weight makes  इस  shape popular amongst diamond cutters .
Accredited Gem Appraisers ( AGA ) and American Gem Society Laboratory ( AGSL ) and European Gem Laboratories-USA (  EGL-USA ) are  currently the only labs that grade the Princess cut for cut .
There is no universal definition of what measurements make an ideal princess cut  डायमंड और अनेक डायमंड निर्माताओं  market ideal diamonds with differing facet patterns and angles as `` ideal cut '' .
In contrast to the AGSL , AGA , and EGL-USA the Gemological Institute of America ( GIA ) has stated that there is not enough industry consensus or empirical data to specify cut grading standards for Princess  काटें ईंट और to do so is at the रिस्क of उपभोक्ता जो may be  deceived by diamonds accompanied by unqualified Ideal or Excellent cut grades .
The name  `` राजकुमारी काटें '' थी  originally used in connection with another diamond cut , otherwise known as the `` Profile '' cut , designed by Arpad Nagy , a London cutter , in 1961 .
The same name was later used and made popular by  ygal पर्लमैन  , Betzalel Ambar , and Israel Itzkowitz in Israel in 1979 .
A similar cut with only 49 facets , as opposed to the original 58 facets of the princess cut , was  बाद ब्रांडेड the `` quadrillion  '' and initially distributed by Ambar Diamonds in Los Angeles .
Three years of optical research yielded a square stone with faceting  समान to  that of a round brilliant cut diamond .
A  तुलना
The number of chevrons can affect the overall outlook  of  a princess cut diamond .
This can usually  be संकल्पित by the तार आरेख  that is plotted in diamond grading reports .
By adding more  chevrons on the मण्डप पक्ष of the डायमंड  , the individual facets of the diamond will now be broken down into smaller facets .
As a result , it can give a  राजकुमारी  cut diamond a `` crushed ice '' look .
Vice  versa , जब a राजकुमारी  cut diamond has lesser chevrons , it tends to give the diamond a chunky outlook due to broader facets .
The domestic dog (  canis lupus familiaris  ) is a subspecies of the gray wolf ( Canis lupus ) , a member of the Canidae family of the mammalian order Carnivora .
The term `` domestic dog '' is generally used for both  domesticated  and feral varieties .
The dog has been the first animal to be domesticated and has been the most widely kept working , hunting ,  and  pet animal in human history .
The word `` dog '' may also mean the male of a canine species , as opposed to  the शब्द `` कुतिया '' लिये the मादा  of the species .
MtDNA evidence shows an evolutionary split between the modern dog 's lineage and the modern wolf 's lineage around 100,000  सालो पहले लकिन , , the oldest चट्टान नमूनों genetically linked to the आधुनिक श्वान 's lineage  date to approximately 33,000-36,000 years ago .
Dogs ' value to early human hunter-gatherers led to them  जल्दी बनने सर्वव्यापी  across world cultures .
Dogs perform many roles for people , such as hunting , herding ,  pulling loads , सुरक्षा , assisting पुलिस  and military , companionship , and , more recently , aiding handicapped individuals .
This impact on human society has given them the nickname ``  man 's बेहतरीन dost ''  in the Western world .
In some cultures , dogs are  भी a सोर्स  of meat .
In 2001 , there were estimated to be 400 million   dogs in the world .
Most breeds of dogs are at most a few hundred years old , having been  artificially चयनित लिये particular morphologies और व्यवहार  by people for specific functional roles .
Through this selective breeding , the dog has developed into hundreds of varied breeds , and shows more behavioral and  morphological विभिन्नता than कोई  other land mammal .
For example , height measured to the withers ranges from in the Chihuahua to about in the Irish Wolfhound ; color varies from white  through grays ( प्रायः पुकारा `` ब्लू '' ) to ब्लैक , और भूरा इससे लाइट ( तन ) to अंधेरा ( `` रेड '' or `` चॉकलेट '' ) in  a wide variation of patterns ; coats can be short or long , coarse-haired to wool-like , straight , curly , or smooth .
It is common for most  breeds to शेड  this coat .
Diagram of a  हस्तांतरण  electron microscope
A 1973  siemens  electron microscope , Musée des Arts et Métiers , Paris
An electron microscope ( EM ) is a type of microscope that uses an electron beam to illuminate a specimen and  उपज  a magnified image .
An EM has greater resolving power than a light microscope and can reveal the structure of smaller objects because electrons  have wavelengths परिचय  100,000 times shorter than visible light photons .
They can achieve better than 50 pm resolution and magnifications of up to about 10,000,000x whereas ordinary , non-confocal light microscopes are  सीमित by विवर्तन to परिचय 200 nm रेज़ोल्यूशन और  useful magnifications below 2000x .
The electron microscope uses electrostatic and  इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक lenses to कंट्रोल the इलेक्ट्रॉन  beam and focus it to form an image .
These electron optical lenses are analogous to the glass lenses of a light  ऑप्टिकल सूक्ष्मदर्शी .
Electron microscopes are used to investigate the ultrastructure of a wide range of   biological and inorganic specimens including microorganisms , cells , large molecules , biopsy samples , metals , and crystals .
industrially , the इलेक्ट्रॉन  microscope is often used for quality control and failure analysis .
Modern electron microscopes produce electron micrographs ,  using specialized डिजिटल  cameras or frame grabbers to capture the image .
Popeyes Louisiana Kitchen is a chain of fried chicken fast food restaurants  संस्थापित in 1972 in नई ऑरलियन्स , louisiana  .
Often referred to as Popeyes and sometimes as Popeyes Chicken & Biscuits or Popeyes Chicken & Seafood , It was acquired by Sandy Springs , Georgia -based AFC  उद्यमों  , originally America 's Favorite Chicken Company , in 1993 .
According to a company press release dated June 29 , 2007 , Popeyes is the second-largest `` quick-service chicken restaurant group , measured by number of units '' ,  साथ अधिक than 1,800 रेस्तरां in अधिक than 40 राज्य और the ज़िला of कोलंबिया , और over 22 देशों विश्वव्यापी सहित तुर्कों , उत्तरी साइप्रस , बहरीन  , China , Hong Kong , Iraq , Indonesia , Jordan , Kuwait , United Arab Emirates , Japan , Malaysia , Saudi Arabia , South Korea , Singapore , Canada , Jamaica , Guyana , Suriname , Mexico , Trinidad , Puerto Rico , Honduras , Vietnam , Panama , Peru , and Costa Rica .
About thirty locations are  company-owned , the बाकी  franchised .
the लेग दबायें is  a weight training exercise in which the individual pushes a weight or resistance away from them using their legs .
The term leg press also refers to the apparatus used to  perform  this exercise .
The leg press can be used  to evaluate an खिलाड़ी 's  overall lower body strength ( from knee joint to hip ) .
Using the  तिर्यक  sled-type leg press machine .
There are  दो  main types of leg press:
The diagonal  or लंबवत  'sled ' type leg press .
Weight disks ( plates ) are attached directly to the  sled , जिससे is  mounted on rails .
The user  sits नीचे  the sled and pushes it upward with their feet .
These machines  सामान्यतः शामिल समायोज्य  safety brackets that prevent the user from being trapped under the weight .
The 'cable ' type leg press  ,  or 'seated leg press ' , commonly found on multigyms .
The user sits upright and pushes  आगे साथ  their feet onto a plate that is attached to the weight stack by means of a long steel cable .
Wendy Williams Hunter (  born वेन्डी जोन  Williams ; July 18 , 1964 ) is an American media personality , actress and author .
She hosts a syndicated television talk show , The Wendy Williams   Show .
Prior to television , Williams was a `` shock  jockette `` on अनेक  radio shows .
Williams has gained  सुर्खी लिये उसके on-air  spats with celebrities .
She was the subject of the  2006 vh1 वास्तविकता tv  series called The Wendy Williams Experience which broadcast events surrounding her radio show .
She has written an autobiography  और अनेक अन्य किताबे , और  has created a product line called Adorn by Wendy Williams .
पैट्रिक हेनरी `` देशद्रोह '' वाक पहले the हाउस of burgesses in an 1851 पेंटिंग by पीटर F. rothermel
`` Give me  स्वतंत्रता , or दे me मौत ! '' is  a quotation attributed to Patrick Henry from a speech he made to the Virginia Convention .
On that day , at St. John 's Church in Richmond , Virginia , and is credited with having swung the balance in convincing  the वर्जिनिया हाउस of burgesses to pass a  resolution delivering the Virginia troops to the Revolutionary War .
Among the delegates to the convention were future US  राष्ट्रपतियों  Thomas Jefferson and George Washington .
न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड  and Labrador ( , locally ) is the easternmost province of Canada .
Situated in the country 's Atlantic region , it  incorporates the द्वीप  of Newfoundland and mainland Labrador to the northwest , with a combined area of .
In 2011 , the province 's population was   514,536 .
Approximately 92 percent of the province 's population lives on the Island of Newfoundland ( including  इसके संबद्ध छोटी आइलैंड्स ) , of जिससे अधिक  than half live on the Avalon Peninsula .
The province is Canada 's most linguistically homogenous , with 97.6 % of  निवासियों रिपोर्टिंग अंग्रेज़ी ( न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड  English ) as their mother tongue in the 2006 census ; .
Historically , Newfoundland was also  घर to अद्वितीय किस्में of फ्रेंच  , and Irish , as well as the now-extinct Beothuk language .
In Labrador , local  dialects of innu-aimun  and Inuktitut are also spoken .
Newfoundland and Labrador 's capital and largest city , St. John 's , is Canada 's 20th-largest Census  महानगर क्षेत्रफल , और is घर to लगभग 40 प्रतिशत  of the province 's population .
St. John 's is the seat of government , home to  the हाउस of  Assembly of Newfoundland and Labrador and the highest court in the jurisdiction , the Newfoundland and Labrador Court of Appeal .
A former  उपनिवेश और डोमिनियन of the संयुक्त  Kingdom , Newfoundland and Labrador became the tenth province to enter the Canadian Confederation on March 31 , 1949 , as Newfoundland .
On December 6 , 2001 , an amendment was made to the Constitution of Canada to change the province 's official name to  न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड और  Labrador .
In day-to-day conversation ,  however , canadians generally स्टिल refer  to the province itself as Newfoundland and to the region on the Canadian mainland as Labrador .
Theodore ``  t.r  . ''
Roosevelt , Jr. ( ; October 27 , 1858—January 6 , 1919 ) was the 26th President of the United States (  1901–1909 )  .
He is noted for his exuberant personality , range of  रूचि  and achievements , and his leadership of the Progressive Movement , as well as his `` cowboy `` persona and robust masculinity .
He was a  नेता of the रिपब्लिकन पार्टी  and founder of the first incarnation of the short-lived Progressive ( `` Bull Moose '' ) Party of 1912 .
Before becoming President , he held offices at the city , state , and  संघीय स्तर .
Roosevelt 's achievements as a naturalist , explorer , hunter , author , and soldier are as much a part  of उसके कीर्ति as कोई  office he held as a politician .
Roosevelt was 42 years old when sworn in as President of  the संयुक्त राज्य  in 1901 , making him the youngest president ever ; he beat out the youngest elected president , John F. Kennedy , by only one year .
Roosevelt  थी भी the  first of only three sitting presidents to have won the Nobel Peace Prize .
The Teddy  भालू is नामित बाद  him , despite his contempt for being called `` Teddy '' .
Born into a wealthy family in New York City , Roosevelt was a sickly child who suffered from  दमा और ठहरे at घर अध्ययन  natural history .
To overcome his physical weakness , he embraced  a ज़ोरदार  life .
home-schooled  , he became an eager student of nature .
He attended Harvard University , where he studied biology , boxed  और विकसित  an interest in naval affairs .
In 1881 , one year out of Harvard , he was elected to the New  यॉर्क  State Assembly , where he became a leader of the reform faction of his Republican Party ( the `` GOP '' ) .
उसके the नवल युद्ध of 1812 ( 1882 ) स्थापित उसके पेशेवर प्रतिष्ठा as a गंभीर इतिहासकार ; he लिखा numerous किताबे on शिकार , the बाहरी , और वर्तमान राजनैतिक मुद्दे , as खूब as frontier  history .
In 1884 , his first wife and his mother  died on  the same day .
He temporarily left politics and went  to  the frontier , becoming a rancher in the `` Badlands '' in the Dakotas .
Returning to New York City , he ran for mayor   in 1886 , finishing third with 60,000 votes .
He later gained fame by taking vigorous charge of the  नगर पुलिस .
At the  नेशनल  level , he was a leader in civil service reform .
The Spanish–American War broke out in 1898 while Roosevelt was , effectively , running the Department  of the नेवी .
He promptly resigned and formed  the अशिष्ट राइडर्स  – a volunteer cavalry regiment that fought in Cuba .
The war hero was elected governor in 1898 and in  1900 थी  nominated for vice president .
He successfully energized the GOP  आधार as a अत्यधिक दृश्य प्रचारक  to reelect President William McKinley on a platform of high tariffs , the gold standard , imperialism , prosperity at home and victory abroad .
In 1901 , President   William McKinley was assassinated and Roosevelt became President .
He  attempted to मूव  the Republican Party ( GOP ) toward Progressivism , including trust busting and increased regulation of businesses .
Roosevelt became the first person elected to a term in his own right in 1904 after having ascended to the  प्रेसिडेंसी ( इससे  the Vice-Presidency ) upon the death of his predecessor , winning the largest percentage of the popular vote since the uncontested election of 1820 .
Roosevelt coined the phrase `` Square  सौदे ``  to describe his domestic agenda , emphasizing that the average citizen would get a fair share under his policies .
As an outdoorsman and naturalist ,  he प्रचारित the  conservation movement .
On the world stage , Roosevelt 's policies were characterized by his slogan , `` Speak softly and carry a big stick  ``  .
A cousin is a relative with whom a person shares one or more common  पूर्वज ( s ) ( अन्य than a जनक , child/descendant  , sibling , child/descendant of a sibling , or sibling of a parent/ancestor ) .
However in common  parlance , `` cousin '' सामान्यतः  specifically means `` first cousin '' .
Systems of `` degrees '' and `` removals '' are used in the English-speaking world to describe the exact relationship between two cousins ( in the broad  भाव ) और  the ancestor they have in common .
Various governmental entities have established  प्रणालियों लिये विधिक उपयोग कि  can more precisely specify kinships with common ancestors existing any number of generations in the past , though common usage often eliminates the degrees and removals and refers to people with common ancestry as simply `` distant cousins '' or `` relatives '' .
Webster is an American situation comedy that aired on ABC from September 16 , 1983 until May 8 , 1987 , and in first-run  अनुप्रयोग इससे सितंबर 21 , 1987 जबतक  March 10 , 1989 .
The  श्रेणी  was created by Stu Silver .
The show stars Emmanuel Lewis in the title role as a young boy who , after losing his parents , is adopted by his NFL -pro godfather ,  portrayed by एलेक्स  Karras , and his new socialite wife , played by Susan Clark .
The focus was largely on how this impulsively  शादीशुदा युगल था to समायोजन  to their new lives and sudden parenthood , but it was the congenial Webster himself who drove much of the plot .
The series was produced by  जॉर्जियाई खाड़ी ltd. ,  Emmanuel Lewis Entertainment Enterprises , Inc. ( 1986-1989 ) and Paramount Television .
Like NBC 's earlier hit Diff'rent Strokes , Webster featured  a  young African-American boy adopted by a white family .
Three types  of कोशिका  division
Cell division is the process by which a parent cell  divides into दो or  more daughter cells .
Cell  प्रभाग प्रायः  occurs as part of a larger cell cycle .
In eukaryotes , there are two distinct type of cell division : a vegetative division , whereby each daughter cell is genetically identical to the parent cell ( mitosis ) , and a reductive cell  प्रभाग , whereby the क्रमांक of गुणसूत्रों in the बेटी कोशिकाएं is घटाया  by half , to produce haploid gametes ( meiosis ) .
Both of these cell division cycles are required in sexually reproducing organisms at some point in their life cycle ,  और दोनो  are believed to be present in the last eukaryotic common ancestor Prokaryotes also undergo a vegetative cell division known as binary fission , where their genetic material is segregated equally into two daughter cells .
All cell divisions , regardless of  सजीव  , are preceded by a single round of DNA replication .
For simple unicellular organisms such as the amoeba , one cell division is equivalent to reproduction – an  संपूर्ण नई सजीव  is created .
On a larger scale , mitotic cell division can create progeny  इससे बहुकोशिकीय  organisms , such as plants that grow from cuttings .
Cell  प्रभाग भी  enables sexually reproducing organisms to develop from the one-celled zygote , which itself was produced by cell division from gametes .
And after growth , cell  प्रभाग allows लिये continual निर्माण  and repair of the organism .
A human being 's body experiences about 10,000 trillion cell divisions in  a  lifetime .
Cell division has been modeled   by finite subdivision rules .
The primary concern of cell division is the  मेंटेनेंस of the  original cell 's genome .
पहले प्रभाग can  occur , the genomic information that is stored in chromosomes must be replicated , and the duplicated genome must be separated cleanly between cells .
A great  सौदे of सेल्यूलर  infrastructure is involved in keeping genomic information consistent between `` generations '' .
Mountain ranges  of मैसाचुसेट्स  , United States .
Howard Jones  ( born जॉन हावर्ड जोन्स , 23  February 1955 , Southampton , Hampshire , England ) is a British musician , singer and songwriter .
According to the Guinness Book of British Hit Singles & Albums , `` Jones is  an  accomplished singer-songwriter who was a regular chart visitor in the mid-1980s with his brand of synthpop .
Jones , who was equally popular in the U.S. ,  appeared at सजीव  Aid `` .
Allmusic journalist , Stephen Thomas Erlewine adds ,  `` Jones  was one of the defining figures of mid-1980s synthpop .
His music merged the technology intensive sound of New Wave with the cheery optimism of hippies and late  1960s  pop .
Jones racked up a string of hits in the mid and late 1980s , before he retreated  into होने a cult  figure in the 1990s '' .
the अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Isle of Man TT ( Tourist Trophy ) Race is a motorcycle racing event held on the Isle of Man and was for many years the most prestigious motorcycle race in the world .
The event was part of the FIM Motorcycle Grand Prix  संसार चैंपियनशिप दौरान the काल 1949–1976  before being transferred to the United Kingdom after safety concerns and run by the FIM as the British Grand Prix for the 1977 season .
The Isle of Man TT Races became part of the TT Formula 1 Championship from 1977 to 1990 to  बचाना the इवेंट 's  racing status .
From 1989 the racing has been developed by the Isle of Man Department of Tourism  as the आइल of man tt  Festival .
The race is run in a time-trial format on public roads closed for racing  by the प्रावधानों of an अधिनियम of  Tynwald ( the parliament of the Isle of Man ) .
The first race was held on Tuesday 28 May 1907 and was called the International Auto-Cycle Tourist  ट्रॉफी  .
The event was organised by the Auto-Cycle Club over 10 laps of the St John 's  छोटी  Course of 15 miles 1,470 yards for road-legal touring motorcycles with exhaust silencers , saddles , pedals and mud-guards .
The winner of the single-cylinder class , and overall winner of the first event in 1907 , was Charlie Collier riding  a Matchless  motorcycle in a time of 4 hours , 8 minutes and 8 seconds at an average race speed of 38.21 mph .
The winner of the twin-cylinder class was Rem Fowler riding a Peugeot engined Norton in a time of 4  घंटों 21 मिनट्स और 52 सेकेंड  at an average race speed of 36.21 mph .
The trophy presented  to चार्ली collier  as the winner of the 1907 Isle of Man TT Race , was donated by the Marquis de Mouzilly St. Mars .
It featured a stylised version of  ओलम्पिक परमेश्वर hermes  by Giovanni Da Bologna as a silver figurine astride a winged wheel .
the ट्रॉफी थी समान in डिज़ाइन  to the 18 carat gold Montague Trophy presented to John Napier ( Arrol-Johnston ) as the inaugural winner of the Isle of Man Tourist Trophy car race in 1905 now known as the RAC Tourist Trophy .
The Marquis de Mouzilly St. Mars Trophy is now presented annually to the winner of the  आइल of man वरिष्ठ tt motor-cycle  Race .
The 2007 Isle of Man TT was the Centenary event which ran between  26 may और 8 जून 2007 और प्रदर्शित a खास  Re-enactment of the 1907 Isle of Man TT Race held on the village green next to Tynwald Hill in St John 's on Monday 28 May 2007 .
The vintage parade of 100 classic motorcycles for the Centenary Re-enactment on the original St John 's Short Course  थी flagged दूर by पूर्व संसार  Motor-Cycle Champion Geoff Duke .
The first of the participants to be flagged away was the recently restored twin-cylinder Peugeot-Norton ridden by Rem Fowler during the first  आइल of man tt रेस in 1907  .
Also participating in the 2007 Re-enactment was TT race competitor Guy Martin riding a 1938 Triumph Tiger 100 500 cc and other former TT competitors including Alan Cathcart , Sammy Miller , Nick Jefferies and  मिक ग्रान्ट  also completed the Re-enactment lap .
upright=1.15
Unemployment ( or  joblessness ) occurs  when people are without work and actively seeking work .
The unemployment rate is a measure of the prevalence of unemployment and it is calculated as a percentage by  dividing the क्रमांक of बेरोजगार  individuals by all individuals currently in the labor force .
During periods of recession , an economy usually  अनुभवों a अपेक्षाकृत  high unemployment rate .
According to International Labour Organization report , more than 197 million people globally are out of work  or 6 %  of the world 's workforce were without a job in 2012 .
There remains considerable theoretical debate regarding  the कल्याणकारी , consequences  and solutions for unemployment .
Classical economics , New classical economics , and the Austrian School of economics argue that market mechanisms are reliable  अर्थात् of resolving बेरोजगारी  .
These theories argue against interventions imposed on the labor market from the outside , such as unionization , minimum wage laws , taxes , and  अन्य regulations  that they claim discourage the hiring of workers .
Keynesian economics emphasizes the cyclical nature of unemployment and recommends government interventions  in the economy that it  claims will reduce unemployment during recessions .
This theory focuses on recurrent shocks  कि एकाएक reduce कुल माँग  for goods and services and thus reduce demand for workers .
Keynesian models recommend government  interventions designed to बढ़ाएँ  demand for workers ; these can include financial stimuli , publicly funded job creation , and expansionist monetary policies .
In addition to these comprehensive theories of unemployment , there are a few categorizations of unemployment that are used to more precisely model the  प्रभाव of बेरोजगारी भीतर  the economic system .
The main types of unemployment include structural unemployment which focuses on structural problems in the economy and inefficiencies inherent in labour markets , including a mismatch between the supply and demand  of laborers साथ जरुरी  skill sets .
संरचनात्मक वितर्क  emphasize causes and solutions related to disruptive technologies and globalization .
Discussions of frictional  बेरोजगारी फ़ोकस on voluntary  decisions to work based on each individuals ' valuation of their own work and how that compares to current wage rates plus the time and effort required to find a job .
Causes and solutions for frictional  बेरोजगारी प्रायः पता  job entry threshold and wage rates .
Behavioral economists highlight individual biases  in  decision making , and often involve problems and solutions concerning sticky wages and efficiency wages .
Collectivism is any philosophic , political , religious , economic , or social outlook that emphasizes the interdependence of every human being in a society or  सभ्यता  .
Collectivism is a basic cultural element that exists as the reverse of  व्यक्तिगत  in human nature ( in the same way high context culture exists as the reverse of low context culture ) .
Collectivist orientations stress the importance of cohesion within  सोशल समूह ( ऐसे as an `` in-group '' ,  in what specific context it is defined ) and in some cases , the priority of group goals over individual goals .
Collectivists often  फ़ोकस on जातियाँ  , society , nation or country .
It has been used as an element in many different and diverse types of government and political , economic and educational philosophies throughout history and most human societies in practice contain  तत्व of दोनो व्यक्तिगत  and collectivism .
Some examples of collectivist  संस्कृतियों शामिल इण्डिया  and Japan .
Collectivism can be divided into horizontal collectivism and  लंबवत collectivism  .
Horizontal collectivism  तनावों सामूहिक  decision-making among equal individuals , and is thus usually based on decentralization and egalitarianism .
Vertical  collectivism is आधारित  on hierarchical structures of power and on moral and cultural conformity , and is therefore based on centralization and hierarchy .
A cooperative enterprise would be an  उदाहरण of आड़ा collectivism  , whereas a military hierarchy would be an example of vertical collectivism .
Acute disseminated  encephalomyelitis  ( ADEM ) is an immune mediated disease of the brain .
It usually occurs following  a वाइरल संक्रमण लकिन may  appear following vaccination , bacterial or parasitic infection , or even appear spontaneously .
as it involves असंक्राम्य  demyelination , it is similar to multiple sclerosis , and is considered part of the Multiple sclerosis borderline diseases .
The incidence rate is about  8 प्रति 1,000,000  people per year .
Although it occurs in all ages , most  reported मामले हैं  in children and adolescents , with the average age around 5 to 8 years old .
The mortality   rate may be as high as 5 % , full recovery is seen in 50 to 75 % of cases , while up to 70 to 90 % recover with some minor residual disability .
The average time to recover is  एक to छह  months .
ADEM produces multiple inflammatory lesions in the brain and spinal cord , particularly in the white  पदार्थ  .
Usually these are found in the subcortical and central white matter and cortical gray-white junction of both cerebral hemispheres , cerebellum ,  brainstem , और स्पाइनल cord , लकिन periventricular श्वेत पदार्थ और धूसर पदार्थ of the  cortex , thalami and basal ganglia may also be involved .
When  the रोगी पीड़ित अधिक than एक  demyelinating episode , it is called recurrent disseminated encephalomyelitis or multiphasic disseminated encephalomyelitis ( MDEM ) .
The stomach is a muscular , hollow , dilated part of the digestion system which  कृत्यों as an महत्वपूर्ण अंग  of the digestive tract in some animals , including vertebrates , echinoderms , insects ( mid-gut ) , and molluscs .
It is involved in the second phase of  पाचन , following  mastication ( chewing ) .
The stomach is located  between the ग्रासनाल  and the small intestine .
It secretes protein-digesting  एंजाइमों पुकारा protease और दमदार acids to सहायता in खाना पाचन  , ( sent to it via esophageal peristalsis ) through smooth muscular contortions ( called segmentation ) before sending partially digested food ( chyme ) to the small intestines .
The word stomach is derived from the Latin stomachus which is derived from the Greek word stomachos ( στόμαχος ) ,  ultimately इससे stoma ( ) , ``  mouth '' .
The words gastro- and gastric (   meaning related to the stomach ) are both derived from the Greek word gaster ( ) .
1940 Pontiac Special  श्रेणी  25 Woodie
A woodie is a car body style , especially a station wagon , where the rear bodywork is constructed of wood framework  साथ infill panels of लकडी  or painted metal .
After the demise of actual wood construction , manufacturers used simulated woodgrain sheet vinyl—sometimes  augmented साथ three-dimensional , अनुकरण framework—to  recall wood construction .
In 2008 , wood construction was evoked abstractly on the Ford Flex with a series of  पक्ष  and rear horizontal grooves .
A pearl is a hard object produced  भीतर the  soft tissue ( specifically the mantle ) of a living shelled mollusc .
बस जैसे the शेल  of a clam , a pearl is made up of calcium carbonate in minute crystalline form , which has been deposited in concentric layers .
The ideal pearl is perfectly  गोलाकार और चिकना , लकिन  many other shapes of pearls ( baroque pearls ) occur .
The finest quality natural pearls have been highly valued as gemstones and objects of beauty for many centuries ,  and  because of this , the word pearl has become a metaphor for something very rare , fine , admirable , and valuable .
The most  मूल्यवान मोती occur  spontaneously in the wild , but they are extremely rare .
These wild pearls are  referred  to as natural pearls .
Cultured or farmed pearls from pearl oysters and freshwater mussels make up the majority of those that are  फिलहाल बेची .
Imitation pearls are also widely sold in inexpensive jewelry , but the quality of  उनके iridescence is प्रायः  very poor , and often , artificial pearls are easily distinguished from genuine pearls .
Pearls have been harvested and cultivated primarily for use in jewelry , but in the past they were  भी सिले onto lavish  clothing .
Pearls have also been crushed and used in cosmetics , medicines , and  in पेंट formulations  .
Whether wild or cultured , gem quality pearls are  लगभग सदा  nacreous and , as is the interior of the shell that produces them .
however , लगभग सब प्रजाति of shelled molluscs  are capable of producing pearls ( formally referred to as `` calcareous concretions '' by some sources ) of lesser shine or less spherical shape .
Although these may also be legitimately referred to as `` pearls '' by gemological labs and also under U.S. Federal Trade Commission  नियम , और हैं formed in the वही  way , most of them have no value , except as curiosities .
Bing (  ज्ञात previously  as Live Search , Windows Live Search , and MSN Search ) is a web search engine ( advertised as a `` decision engine `` ) from Microsoft .
Bing was  अनावरण by microsoft सीईओ स्टीव बाल्मर  on May 28 , 2009 at the All Things Digital conference in San Diego for release on June 1 .
Notable changes include the listing of search suggestions while  प्रश्नों हैं डाला और a सूची of सम्बन्धित खोज  ( called `` Explore pane '' ) based on semantic technology from Powerset which Microsoft purchased in 2008 .
On July 29 , 2009 , Microsoft and Yahoo ! announced a deal in which Bing would power  याहू ! ढूंढें  .
All Yahoo ! Search global customers and partners are  अपेक्षित to have बना  the transition by early 2012 .
In October 2011 , Bing announced it was working on new back-end search infrastructure , with the goal of delivering faster and slightly more  प्रासंगिक ढूंढें परिणाम  for users .
Known as `` Tiger '' , the new index-serving technology has  महरूम incorporated into bing  globally , since August 2011 .
In May 2012 , Bing announced another redesign of its search  इंजन कि  includes `` Sidebar '' , a social feature that searches users ' social networks for information relevant to the search query .
A diagram showing  an i गठन  on offense and a 4-3 Formation on defense
In  अमरीकी  football , each team has eleven players on the field at one time .
the विशिष्ट  role that a player takes on the field is called their position .
Under the modern rules of American football , teams are allowed unlimited subsititutions , that is teams may change any  क्रमांक of खिलाड़ी  after any play .
This has resulted in the development of three `` platoons '' of players , the offense ( the team with the ball ,  who is trying to  score ) , the defense ( the team trying to prevent the other team from scoring , and to take the ball from them ) , and the special teams ( who play in kicking situations ) .
Within those platoons  , विभिन्न विशिष्ट  positions exist depending on what the player 's main job is .
The Irish people ( or na hÉireannaigh ; Ulster-Scots : Airish fowk ) are  an  ethnic group who originate in Ireland , an island in northwestern Europe .
Ireland has been populated for around 9,000 years ( according to archaeological studies , see  प्रागैतिहासिक आयरलैंड  ) .
The Irish people 's earliest  पूर्वजो हैं अंकित in महापुरूष – वे  are claimed to be descended from groups such as the Nemedians , Fomorians , Fir Bolg , Tuatha Dé Danann and the Milesians .
Lebor Gabála Érenn , a book of Irish mythology  tells  that Milesians were Scythian descendants .
The main groups that interacted  साथ the  Irish in the Middle Ages include the Picts , Scots , and the Vikings .
Due to this contact , Icelanders are noted for having some  आयरिश  descent .
The Anglo-Norman invasion of the High Middle Ages , the English plantations and the subsequent English rule  of the देश  introduced the Normans and Flemish into Ireland .
Welsh , Picts , Bretons , and small parties of Gauls and even  anglo-saxons हैं  known in Ireland from much earlier times .
There have been many notable  आयरिश  people throughout history .
The 6th century  आयरिश भिक्षु और मिशनरी columbanus is regarded  as one of the `` fathers of Europe '' , followed by Kilian of Würzburg and Vergilius of Salzburg .
the वैज्ञानिक रॉबर्ट  Boyle is considered the `` father of chemistry `` .
Famous Irish  explorers  include Brendan the Navigator , Robert McClure , Ernest Shackleton and Tom Crean .
By some accounts , the first European child born in North America had Irish descent on both sides ; and an  irishman  was the first European to set foot on American soil in Columbus ' expedition of 1492 .
There  हैं वंशजों of आयरिश  people living in many western countries , particularly in English-speaking countries .
Historically , emigration has been caused by  राजनीती  , famine and economic issues .
An estimated 50 to 80 million people are descendants of Irish people , primarily in the United Kingdom , the United States , Australia , Canada and Iceland ; there are also smaller numbers in Argentina , Chile , Mexico , Jamaica , Barbados , South Africa  , New Zealand , France ,  Germany and Brazil .
The largest number of descendants  of  Irish people live in the United States .
The number of people living in Australia who are of Irish descent is higher , as a  प्रतिशत of  total population , than that of any other country .
Approximately forty percent  of the उपनिवेश  population of Iceland came from Ireland or Scotland .
The very first inhabitants of Iceland  यहूद  Irish .
The Hubble Space Telescope ( HST ) is a space telescope that was carried into orbit by a Space  शटल in 1990 और remains in आपरेशन  .
A aperture telescope in low  धरती कक्षा  , Hubble 's four main instruments observe in the near ultraviolet , visible , and near infrared .
The telescope is named  बाद  the astronomer Edwin Hubble .
Hubble 's orbit outside the distortion of Earth 's  माहौल allows it  to take extremely sharp images with almost no background light .
Hubble 's Deep Field have been  कुछ of the  most detailed visible-light images ever , allowing a deep view into space and time .
Many Hubble observations have led to  सफलताएँ in astrophysics , ऐसे as accurately  determining the rate of expansion of the universe .
Although not the first  स्पेस दूरदर्शी , हबल  is one of the largest and most versatile , and is well known as both a vital research tool and a public relations boon for astronomy .
The HST was built by the United States space agency NASA , with  योगदान  from the European Space Agency , and is operated by the Space Telescope Science Institute .
The HST is one of NASA 's Great Observatories , along with the Compton Gamma Ray  वेधशाला , the  Chandra X-ray Observatory , and the Spitzer Space Telescope .
Space  telescopes  were proposed as early as 1923 .
हबल थी  funded in the 1970s , with a proposed launch in 1983 , but the project was beset by technical delays , budget problems , and the Challenger disaster .
When finally launched in 1990 , scientists  मिला कि the प्रमुख दर्पण  had been ground incorrectly , compromising the telescope 's capabilities .
The telescope was restored   to its intended quality by a servicing mission in 1993 .
Hubble   is the only telescope designed to be serviced in space by astronauts .
Between 1993 and 2002 , four missions repaired , upgraded , and replaced systems on  the दूरदर्शी ; a पांचवां मिशन थी रद्द on  safety grounds following the Columbia disaster .
However , after spirited public discussion , NASA administrator Mike Griffin approved one final servicing mission ,  समाप्त in 2009  by Space Shuttle Atlantis .
The  दूरदर्शी is अभी  expected to function until at least 2013 .
Its  वैज्ञानिक  successor , the James Webb Space Telescope ( JWST ) , is to be launched in 2018 or possibly later .
Anti-inflammatory refers to the property of a  पदार्थ or  treatment that reduces inflammation .
Anti-inflammatory drugs make up about half of analgesics , remedying pain by reducing inflammation as opposed  to  opioids , which affect the central nervous system .
The Tonight  दिखाएँ  is a US late-night talk show that has aired on NBC since 1954 .
It is the longest currently running regularly scheduled entertainment program in the US and the third longest-running show on  एनबीसी बाद मिलें the  Press and Today .
The Tonight Show was hosted by Steve Allen ( 1954–1957 ) , Jack Paar (  1957–1962 ) , जॉनी कार्सन ( 1962–1992  ) , Jay Leno ( 1992–2009 , 2010–present ) , and Conan O'Brien ( 2009–2010 ) .
अनेक  guest hosts also appeared , particularly during the Paar and Carson eras .
The longest-serving host to date was  जॉनी कार्सन , जो hosted the tonight  Show Starring Johnny Carson for 30 seasons from the fall of 1962 through the spring of 1992 .
The  वर्तमान मेजबान of the दिखाएँ is jay लीनो , जो था previously hosted the दिखाएँ इससे 1992 to 2009 और began उसके दूसरी कार्यकाल on कूच 1 , 2010 .
On April 3 , 2013 , NBC announced Jimmy   Fallon would become the new host of The Tonight Show .
The Tonight  दिखाएँ साथ jimmy  Fallon will premiere February 24 , 2014 , the day after the closing ceremonies of the 2014 Winter Olympics .
ss  Andrea Doria .
Pronounced was an ocean liner for the Italian Line ( Società di navigazione Italia ) home ported in Genoa , Italy , most famous for its sinking in 1956  , जब 52 लोगों  died ( 51 from immediate impact ) .
Named  बाद the  16th-century Genoese admiral Andrea Doria , the ship had a gross register tonnage of 29,100 and a capacity of about 1,200 passengers and 500 crew .
लिये a देश attempting to rebuild इसके  economy and reputation after World War II , Andrea Doria was an icon of Italian national pride .
Of all Italy 's  जहाजों at the समय , एंड्रिया  Doria was the largest , fastest and supposedly safest .
शुभारम्भ  on 16 June 1951 , the ship undertook its maiden voyage on 14 January 1953 .
On 25 July 1956 , while the Andrea Doria was approaching the coast of Nantucket , Massachusetts , bound for New York City , the eastbound of the Swedish American Line collided with it in what became one  of इतिहास 's सबसे infamous  maritime disasters .
Struck in the side , the top-heavy Andrea Doria immediately started  to सूची  severely to starboard , which left half of its lifeboats unusable .
The consequent shortage of lifeboats might have resulted in significant  loss of  life , but the efficiency of the ship 's technical design allowed it to stay afloat for over 11 hours after the ramming .
The good behavior  of the क्रू , सुधार  in communications and the rapid response of other ships averted a disaster similar in scale to that of the in 1912 .
1,660 passengers and crew were rescued and survived , while 46 people died as a consequence  of the  collision .
The evacuated luxury liner capsized and sank the following  morning .
This accident remains the worst  मेरीटाइम विपत्ति to occur  in United States waters since the sinking of the in 1915 .
The  घटना और  its aftermath were heavily covered by the news media .
While the rescue  प्रयत्न यहूद दोनो कामयाब  and commendable , the cause of the collision with the Stockholm and the loss of Andrea Doria generated much interest in the media and many lawsuits .
Largely because of an out-of-court settlement agreement between  the दो  shipping companies during hearings immediately after the disaster , no determination of the cause ( s ) was ever formally published .
Although greater  दोष appeared initially  to fall on the Italian liner , more recent discoveries have indicated that a misreading of radar on the Swedish ship may have initiated the collision course , leading to errors on both ships .
Andrea Doria was the last major  transatlantic यात्री पोत  to sink before aircraft became the preferred method of travel .
डायलिसिस  tubing
Dialysis tubing is a type of semi- or partially permeable membrane  tubing बना इससे regenerated  cellulose or cellophane .
It can be used for diffusion with solutes or osmosis if used with  जल तभी .
Osmosis is when water  गुजरता through a semi-permeable  layer to reach equilibrium .
Diffusion , on the other hand , allows the  गति of  molecules from high concentration to low concentration .
It will only allow molecules to pass through a  semi-permeable झिल्ली or परत if the अणु  is small enough to fit through the membrane or a membrane 's pore .
This usually results with the effects of diffusion through a membrane only really  affects छोटी अणुओं ,  and almost never larger molecules .
डायलिसिस tubing is प्रयुक्त in  clinical circumstances to ensure a filtered flow of molecules , preventing the flow of larger solute molecules .
छोटी  molecules can be `` washed '' out of a solution which is pumped through the tubing into a solvent , usually water , which surrounds it and in which they can be flushed away .
In demonstrations of semi-permeable membranes , a solution containing several types of  अणुओं , प्रायः ग्लूकोज और मंड , is लगाई into a semi-permeable डायलिसिस  bag , such as a cellulose membrane with pores , and the bag is sealed with a knot or elastic band .
The sealed dialysis bag is placed in  a  container of a different solution , or water .
Molecules small enough to pass through the tubing ( water , salts , monosaccharides , and other small molecules ) tend to move into or out of the dialysis bag in the direction of decreasing  विशेषज्ञता , इसलिए displaying diffusion  .
Larger molecules ( such as proteins ,  or  polysaccharides ) that have dimensions significantly greater than the pore diameter are retained inside the dialysis bag .
The water and smaller solutes in a hypotonic solution ( a solution that has a  lesser solute विशेषज्ञता than the समाधान it is संदर्भित to ) होगा क्रॉस a semi-permeable झिल्ली , जैसे डायलिसिस tubing , into a hypertonic  solution ( a solution that has a higher solute concentration than the solution it is referenced to ) in an attempt to reach equilibrium , where the solute concentration of each solution is in equilibrium .
Mercury  प्रयोगशाला थर्मामीटर
A thermometer ( from the Greek , thermos , meaning `` hot '' and μἐτρον , metron , `` measure '' ) is a device that measures temperature  or तापमान अनुपात using a किस्में of अलग  principles .
A thermometer has two important elements : the temperature sensor (  e.g . the बल्ब on a mercury-in-glass थर्मामीटर ) in जिससे कुछ शारीरिक बदलें  occurs with temperature , plus some means of converting this physical change into a numerical value ( e.g . the visible scale that is marked on a mercury-in-glass thermometer ) .
There are many types and many uses for  thermometers , as विस्तृत  below in sections of this article .
Snow White and  the सात dwarfs is a 1937 अमरीकी  animated musical fantasy film produced by Walt Disney and released by RKO Radio Pictures .
Based on the German fairy tale by the Brothers Grimm , it is the first full-length cel animated feature film and the earliest in the  वॉल्ट डिज़्नी एनिमेटेड क्लासिक  series .
The story was adapted by  स्टोरीबोर्ड कलाकारों  Dorothy Ann Blank , Richard Creedon , Merrill De Maris , Otto Englander , Earl Hurd , Dick Rickard , Ted Sears and Webb Smith .
David Hand was the supervising director , while William Cottrell , Wilfred Jackson , Larry Morey , Perce  pearce , और बेन sharpsteen  directed the film 's individual sequences .
Snow White premiered at the Carthay Circle Theatre  on December 21  , 1937 , followed by a nationwide release on February 4 , 1938 , and with international earnings of $ 8 million during its initial release briefly assumed the record of highest grossing sound film at the time .
The popularity  of the फिल्मी रै led to  it being re-released theatrically many times , until its home video release in the 1990s .
Adjusted for inflation , it is one of the top ten  performers at the उत्तर  American box office .
At the 11th Academy Awards , Walt Disney was awarded an  मानद ऑस्कर ,  and the film was nominated for Best Musical Score .
It was added to the United States National Film Registry  in 1989 और is क्रमित in the अमरीकी फिल्मी संस्थान 's  list of the 100 greatest American films , who also named the film as the greatest American animated film of all time in 2008 .
Disney 's take on the fairy  टेल रै था a बिग सांस्कृतिक प्रभाव , resulting  in a popular theme park attraction , a video game , and a Broadway musical .
Childbirth , labour , delivery , birth , partus , or parturition is the culmination of a pregnancy period with the  expulsion of  one or more newborn infants from a woman 's uterus .
The process of normal childbirth is categorized in three stages of labour : the shortening and dilation of the  ग्रीवा , descent  and birth of the infant , and birth of the placenta .
In many cases and  साथ increasing आवृत्ति , प्रसव  is achieved through induction of labor or caesarean section , which is the removal of the neonate through a surgical incision in the abdomen , rather than through vaginal birth .
Childbirth by C-Sections increased 50 % in  the u.S. इससे 1996  to 2006 , and comprise nearly 32 % of births in the U.S. and Canada .
With respect to induced labor , more than 22 % of women undergo induction  of  labour in the United States .
Medical professional policy makers find that induced births and elective cesarean can be harmful to the fetus and neonate as well as harmful or without benefit to the mother , and have established strict guidelines for non-medically  indicated induced births और elective cesarean  before 39 weeks .
Viva La Bam was an MTV & Viva show which followed Bam Margera and his crew as they undertook challenges , performed stunts and traveled the  संसार  .
The show ran for 5 seasons  between 2003  and 2005 .
Flushed Away is a 2006 British/American computer animated action / adventure comedy film directed  by दाउद bowers  and Sam Fell .
It was made in the partnership between  aardman एनिमेशन और  DreamWorks Animation , and is Aardman 's first completely computer-animated feature as opposed to the usual stop-motion .
The film stars the voice talents of Hugh Jackman , Kate Winslet , Andy Serkis , Bill  nighy , इयान mckellen , शेन  Richie and Jean Reno .
The story was by Sam Fell , Peter Lord , Dick Clement , and Ian La Frenais  , और the पटकथा थी लिखा  by Dick Clement , Ian La Frenais , Christopher Lloyd , Joe Keenan , and William Davies .
The film was released in US on 3 November 2006 , and in UK on December 1 2006 , and was distributed by Paramount  तस्वीरें , मगर लिये स्विट्ज़रलैंड , स्पेन , और the नीदरलैंड्स ,  which were handled by Universal Pictures .
The Atlanta Braves  हैं a पेशेवर बेसबॉल  team based in Atlanta .
The Braves are a member of the  पूर्वी प्रभाग  of Major League Baseball 's National League .
The  braves have  played in Turner Field since 1997 .
The `` Braves '' name , which was first  प्रयुक्त in  1912 , originates from a term for a Native American warrior .
They are nicknamed `` the  bravos '' , और प्रायः referred to as ``  America 's Team `` in reference to the team 's games being broadcast on the nationally available TBS from the 1970s until 2007 , gaining a wide fanbase .
From 1991 to 2005 the Braves were one of the most successful franchises in baseball , winning division  शीर्षक an unprecedented 14 लगातार टाइम्स  in that period ( omitting the strike-shortened 1994 season in which there were no official division champions ) .
The Braves won the NL West  1991–93 और the nl ईस्ट 1995–2005  , and returned to the playoffs as the National League Wild Card in 2010 .
The Braves advanced to the World Series  पाँच टाइम्स in  the 1990s , winning the title in 1995 .
Since their debut in the National League  in 1876 , the मताधिकार रै  won 16 divisional titles , 17 National League pennants , as well as three World Series championships—in 1914 as the Boston Braves , in 1957 as the Milwaukee Braves , and in 1995 in Atlanta .
The Braves are the  तभी एमएलबी मताधिकार to have जीती  the World Series in three different home cities .
The club is one of the National League 's two remaining  चार्टर  franchises ( the other being the Chicago Cubs ) and was founded in Boston , Massachusetts , in 1871 as the Boston Red Stockings ( not to be confused with the American League 's Boston Red Sox ) .
They are considered  ``  the oldest continuously playing team in major North American sports . ''
There is an argument as to who is actually older because  हालांकि the शावक हैं a पूरा ऋतु  `` older '' ( formed as the Chicago White Stockings in 1870 ) Chicago lost two seasons to the Great Chicago Fire , thus the Braves have played more consecutive seasons .
After various name changes ( such as the Boston Beaneaters ) , the team operated as the Boston Braves for most of the  पहला हाफ of the 20th सदी  .
In 1953 , the team moved to Milwaukee , Wisconsin and became the Milwaukee Braves , followed by the move to  अटलांटा  in 1966 .
The team 's tenure in Atlanta  is प्रसिद्ध  for Hank Aaron breaking Babe Ruth 's career home run record in 1974 , though the majority of Aaron 's home runs were hit while the team was in Milwaukee .
His record stood until 2007 , when  सैन फ्रांसिस्को बाएँ  fielder Barry Bonds broke the record .
The leaves of a  beech पेड़
3D rendering of a μCT scan of a leaf piece , resolution circa 40 μm/  voxel  .
A leaf is an organ of a vascular plant , as defined in botanical terms , and in  particular in संयंत्र morphology  .
Foliage is a mass noun that refers to  पत्ते as a विशेषता  of plants .
Typically a leaf is a thin , flattened organ borne above ground and specialized for photosynthesis , but many types of leaves are adapted in  तरीके लगभग unrecognisable in those शर्तें : कुछ हैं नहीं  flat ( for example many succulent leaves and conifers ) , some are not above ground ( such as bulb scales ) , and some are without major photosynthetic function ( consider for example cataphylls , spines , and cotyledons ) .
Conversely , many structures of non-vascular plants , or even of some lichens ,  जिससे हैं नहीं पौधे at सब  ( in the sense of being members of the kingdom Plantae ) , do look and function much like leaves .
Furthermore , several structures found in vascular plants look like leaves but are not actually leaves  ; they differ  from leaves in their structures and origins .
Examples include phyllodes ,  cladodes , और  phylloclades .
Title card for the 1937 Our Gang comedy Rushin '  बैले  .
Our Gang ( also  ज्ञात as  The Little Rascals or Hal Roach 's Rascals ) are a series of American comedy short films about a group of poor neighborhood children and their adventures .
Created by comedy producer Hal Roach , the series is  विख्यात लिये प्रर्दशित children behaving in a अपेक्षाकृत प्राकृतिक रास्ता , as रोच और असली  director Robert F. McGowan worked to film the unaffected , raw nuances apparent in regular children rather than have them imitate adult acting styles .
in जोड , हमारी गिरोह notably put लड़कों , लड़कियों , whites और अश्वेतों साथ in a समूह as बराबरी , कुछ कि `` broke नई मैदान , '' according to फिल्मी इतिहासकार लियोनार्ड maltin .
Such a thing had never been done before in  सिनेमा लकिन रै चूंकि महरूम दोहराया  after the success of Our Gang .
The first production at the Roach studio in 1922 was  a श्रेणी of  silent short subjects .
When Roach changed distributors from Pathé to Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer ( MGM ) in 1927 , and converted the series to sound in 1929 , the series took off even  further  .
उत्पादन जारी at the रोच स्टुडियो जबतक 1938 , जब the श्रेणी थी बेची to mgm , जो तब जारी producing the comedies जबतक 1944 .
The Our Gang series includes a total of 220 shorts  and  one feature film , General Spanky , featuring over forty-one child actors .
As MGM retained  the अधिकारों to the हमारी गिरोह ट्रेडमार्क following उनके  purchase of the production rights , the 80 Roach-produced `` talkies '' were syndicated for television under the title The Little Rascals beginning in 1955 .
Both Roach 's The Little Rascals package ( now owned by CBS Television Distribution ) and MGM 's Our Gang  पैकेज ( अभी स्वामित्व by warner भाईs. entertainment  ) have since remained in syndication , with periodic new productions based on the shorts surfacing over the years , including a 1994 Little Rascals feature film released by Universal Pictures .
Zacharias Janssen ( also Zacharias  जानसन or sacharias जानसन ) ( b.1580-88  , d.pre-1632 to 1638 ) was a Dutch spectacle-maker from Middelburg associated with the invention of the first optical telescope .
Janssen is  sometimes भी credited  for inventing the first truly compound microscope .
However , the origin of the  सूक्ष्मदर्शी , बस जैसे  the origin of the telescope , is a matter of debate .
Lake Tahoe ( ; Washo : dáʔaw ) is a large freshwater lake in the  सिएरा नेवाडा of the संयुक्त राज्य  .
At a surface elevation of , it  is स्तिथ  along the border between California and Nevada , west of Carson City .
Lake Tahoe is the largest  अल्पाइन झील  in North America .
Its depth is , making it the United  राज्य  's second-deepest ( the deepest is Crater Lake in Oregon , being deeper , at ) .
Additionally , Lake Tahoe is listed as the 26th  largest  lake by volume in the world at .
The lake was formed about 2  लाख सालो पहले और is a  part of the Lake Tahoe Basin with the modern lake being shaped during the ice ages .
It is known for the clarity of its water and the panorama of surrounding  kyu on सब पहलू  .
The area surrounding the lake is also referred to as Lake Tahoe , or  बस tahoe  .
झील  Tahoe is a major tourist attraction in both Nevada and California .
It is home to a number of ski resorts , summer outdoor  मनोरंजन , और पर्यटक आकर्षण  .
Snow and skiing are  a significant भाग  of the area 's economy and reputation .
पहाड़ और झील नजारा हैं आकर्षण throughout the साल .
The Nevada side  भी शामिल  large casinos .
राजमार्गों provide  year-round access from Reno , Carson City , and Sacramento .
Page 1  of  the Twenty-seventh Amendment 's certification in the National Archives
Page 2 of the amendment 's  प्रमाणन
Page 3 of the amendment  's प्रमाणन
The Twenty-seventh Amendment  (  Amendment XXVII ) prohibits any law that increases or decreases the salary of members of the Congress from taking effect until the start of the next set of terms of office for Representatives .
It is the most recent  amendment to the संयुक्त  States Constitution .
It was submitted  to the  states for ratification in 1789 and was adopted in 1992 .
“First they came ... ” is a famous statement and provocative poem attributed to pastor Martin Niemöller (  1892–1984 ) परिचय the सुस्ती  of German intellectuals following the Nazis ' rise to power and the subsequent purging of their chosen targets , group after group .
There is some disagreement over the exact wording of the quotation and when it was created ; the content  of the quotation may have महरूम  presented differently by Niemöller on different occasions .
This list of islands by area includes all islands  in the  world greater than 2,500 km2 ( ) and several other islands over 500 km2 ( ) , sorted in descending order by area .
For comparison ,  महाद्वीपों  are also shown .
Four  तिहाई  logo
The Four Thirds system is a  मानक  created by Olympus and Kodak for digital single-lens reflex camera ( DSLR ) design and development. < ref name='DPReview.com 2001-02-13 ' >
The system provides a standard that , with digital cameras and  lenses उपलब्धियाँ  from multiple manufacturers , allows for the interchange of lenses and bodies from different manufacturers .
seems to cover the  मानक  .
Proponents  describe it as an खोलें मानक  , but companies may only use it under a non-disclosure agreement .
Unlike  पुरानी slr प्रणालियों , चार  Thirds has been designed from the ground up to be entirely digital .
Many lenses are extensively computerized , to  the पाइंट कि ओलम्पस offers फर्मवेयर  updates for many of them .
Lens design has been tailored to the  आवश्यकताएँ of डिजिटल  sensors , most notably through telecentric designs .
The size of the sensor is significantly smaller than for most DSLRs and this implies that lenses ,  विशेषकर  telephoto lenses , can be smaller .
For example , a Four Thirds lens with a 300 mm focal length would cover about the same angle of view as a 600 mm focal length  lens for the 35  mm film standard , and is correspondingly more compact .
Thus , the Four Thirds System has crop factor ( focal length multiplier ) of about 2 , and while this  enables longer फोकल लंबाई लिये वृहद  magnification , it does n't aid the manufacture of wide angle lenses .
The image sensor  स्वरूप , generally इंटरमीडिएट between  those of larger SLRs and smaller compact cameras , generally gives levels of cost , performance and convenience intermediate between those two classes .
HVAC systems use ventilation air ducts installed throughout a building to  सप्लाई conditioned एयर to a रूम  through outlet vents , called diffusers ; and ducts to remove air through return-air grilles .
HVAC ( heating ,  वेंटिलेशन , और एयर कंडीशनिंग  ) is the technology of indoor and automotive environmental comfort .
HVAC system design is a  subdiscipline of mechanical  engineering , based on the principles of thermodynamics , fluid mechanics , and heat transfer .
Refrigeration is sometimes added to the field 's abbreviation as HVAC & R or HVACR , or ventilating is dropped as in HACR ( such  as the  designation of HACR-rated circuit breakers ) .
HVAC is important in the design of medium to large industrial and office buildings such as skyscrapers and in marine environments such as aquariums , where safe and  स्वस्थ भवन शर्तें हैं regulated साथ आदर to तापमान  and humidity , using fresh air from outdoors .
Ventilation on the downdraught system , by impulsion , or the 'plenum ' principle   , applied to schoolrooms ( 1899 )
Heating , ventilating , and air conditioning is based on   inventions and discoveries made by Nikolay Lvov , Michael Faraday , Willis Carrier , Reuben Trane , James Joule , William Rankine , Sadi Carnot , and many others .
The  आविष्कार of the components  of HVAC systems went hand-in-hand with the industrial revolution , and new methods of modernization , higher efficiency , and system control are constantly introduced by companies and inventors worldwide .
The three central functions of heating , ventilating , and  air-conditioning हैं interrelated , विशेषकर  with the need to provide thermal comfort and acceptable indoor air quality within reasonable installation , operation , and maintenance costs .
HVAC systems can provide  वेंटिलेशन , reduce  air infiltration , and maintain pressure relationships between spaces .
The means of air delivery and removal from spaces is  ज्ञात as रूम एयर वितरण  .
The  starting पाइंट in  carrying out an estimate both for cooling and heating depends on the exterior climate and interior specified conditions .
however पहले लेने up the ऊष्मा लोड गणना , it is  necessary to find fresh air requirements for each area in detail , as pressurization is an important consideration .
In modern buildings  the डिज़ाइन  , installation , and control systems of these functions are integrated into one or more HVAC systems .
For very small buildings , contractors normally capacity  इंजीनियर और चुनें hvac प्रणालियों  and equipment .
For larger buildings , building services designers and engineers , such as mechanical , architectural , or  भवन सेवाएं इंजीनियर्स analyze , डिज़ाइन  , and specify the HVAC systems , and specialty mechanical contractors fabricate and commission them .
Building permits and code-compliance inspections of the installations are normally required for all  आकार  of buildings .
The HVAC industry is  a विश्वव्यापी  enterprise , with roles including operation and maintenance , system design and construction , equipment manufacturing and sales , and in education and research .
The HVAC industry was  historically regulated by the निर्माताओं  of HVAC equipment , but regulating and standards organizations such as HARDI , ASHRAE , SMACNA , ACCA , Uniform Mechanical Code , International Mechanical Code , and AMCA have been established to support the industry and encourage high standards and achievement .
Royal Navy Commander  जेम्स बंध ,  CMG , RNVR , is a fictional character created by British journalist and novelist Ian Fleming in 1953 .
He is the protagonist of the James Bond  श्रेणी of novels , films ,  comics and video games .
फ्लेमिंग लिखा बारह बंध novels और दो छोटी  story collections before his death , although the last two books— The Man with the Golden Gun and Octopussy and The Living Daylights —were published posthumously .
The Bond character is a Secret Service agent , code number 007 , residing in  लंदन लकिन क्रियाशील internationally  .
Bond was a composite character who was based on a number of commandos whom Fleming knew during his service in the Naval Intelligence Division during World  युद्ध ii , to जिसको फ्लेमिंग added उसके अपना स्टाइल और a क्रमांक of उसके अपना  tastes ; Bond 's name was appropriated from American ornithologist James Bond .
Bond has a number of character traits which run throughout the books , including an enjoyment of cars , a  love of food  and drink , and an average intake of sixty custom-made cigarettes a day .
Since Fleming 's death in 1964 , there have been other authorised writers of Bond  सामग्री , सहित जॉन गार्डनर , जो लिखा  fourteen novels and two novelizations and Raymond Benson , who wrote six novels , three novelizations and three short stories .
There have also been three authors who wrote one book each , Kingsley Amis ( writing as Robert  markham ) , सेबेस्टियन  Faulks and Jeffery Deaver .
Additionally a series of novels based on Bond 's youth— Young  बंध —was लिखा  by Charlie Higson .
As spin-offs from the literary works ,   there was a television adaptation of the first novel , Casino Royale , in which Bond was played as an American agent .
a कॉमिक स्ट्रिप श्रेणी  also ran in the Daily Express newspaper .
There have also been twenty-five Bond films ; seven  अभिनेताओं have निभाई बंध in  these films .
`` Nature Boy '' is a song  by ईडन ahbez , प्रकाशित  in 1947 .
The song  tells a काल्पनिक of a `` अजीब एनचांटेड  boy ... who wandered very far '' only to learn that `` the greatest thing ... was just to love and be loved in return '' .
Nat King Cole 's 1948 recording of the song was a  प्रमुख hit और ``  Nature Boy '' has since become a pop and jazz standard , with dozens of major artists interpreting the song .
Louisiana ( or ; , ; Louisiana Creole : Léta de la Lwizyàn ) is a state located in the southern  प्रदेश of the संयुक्त  States of America .
Louisiana is the 31st most extensive and the 25th most  populous of the 50 संयुक्त  States .
Its capital  is baton  Rouge and largest city is New Orleans .
Louisiana  is the तभी  state in the U.S. with political subdivisions termed parishes , which are local government 's equivalent to counties .
the largest मोहल्ला by जनसांख्यिकी is ईस्ट baton रूज मोहल्ला , और the largest by जमीन क्षेत्रफल is cameron मोहल्ला  .
Much of the state 's lands were formed from sediment washed down the Mississippi River , leaving enormous  deltas और विशाल क्षेत्रों  of coastal marsh and swamp .
These  contain a समृद्ध दक्षिणी biota ; ठेठ  examples include birds such as ibis and egrets .
वहीँ हैं भी  many species of tree frogs , and fish such as sturgeon and paddlefish .
In more elevated areas , fire is a natural process in the landscape , and has produced extensive areas of  longleaf पाइन वन  and wet savannas .
These support an exceptionally large number of plant species , including  अनेक प्रजाति of orchids और मांसाहारी  plants .
Some Louisiana urban environments have a multicultural , multilingual heritage , being so strongly  बहकावे by an जिसमें of  18th-century French , Spanish , Native American ( Indian ) and African cultures that they are considered to be somewhat exceptional in the U.S .
Before the  अमरीकी  purchase of the territory , the current Louisiana State had been both a Spanish and French colony .
In addition , the pattern of development  शामिल importing numerous अफ़्रीकी स्लेव in the 18th सदी , साथ अनेक इससे the वही  region of West Africa , thus concentrating their culture .
In the post-Civil War environment , Anglo-Americans increased the pressure for Anglicization , and in 1915 , English was made the only  आधिकारिक  language of the state .
Women 's rights are the rights and entitlements claimed  लिये महिलाओं और लड़कियों of अनेक  societies worldwide .
In some places these  अधिकारों हैं institutionalized  or supported by law , local custom , and behaviour , whereas in others they may be ignored or suppressed .
They differ from broader notions of human rights through claims of an inherent  ऐतिहासिक और  traditional bias against the exercise of rights by women and girls in favour of men and boys .
Issues commonly associated with notions of  महिलाओं 's अधिकारों शामिल , हालांकि हैं नहीं  limited to , the right : to bodily integrity and autonomy ; to vote ( suffrage ) ; to hold public office ; to work ; to fair wages or equal pay ; to own property ; to education ; to serve in the military or be conscripted ; to enter into legal contracts ; and to have marital , parental and religious rights .
The laws of science or scientific laws are statements that describe , predict , and perhaps explain why , a range of  phenomena व्यवहार as वे appear to in  nature .
The term  `` विधि '' रै विविध  usage in many cases : approximate , accurate , broad or narrow theories , in all natural scientific disciplines ( physics , chemistry , biology , geology , astronomy etc . ) .
An analogous term for a  वैज्ञानिक विधि  is a principle .
वैज्ञानिक  laws:
summarize a large collection of facts determined by experiment into a  सिंगल statement,
can usually be formulated mathematically as one or several statements or equation , or at least stated in a single sentence , so that it can be used  to भविष्यवाणी the निष्कर्ष of an प्रयोग , दिए the आरंभिक , boundary , और  other physical conditions of the processes which take place,
are strongly supported by empirical evidence - they are  वैज्ञानिक ज्ञान कि प्रयोग  have repeatedly verified ( and never falsified ) .
Their accuracy does not change when new theories are worked  आउट , लकिन बल्कि the  scope of application , since the equation ( if any ) representing the law does not change .
As with other scientific knowledge , they do not have absolute certainty like  गणितीय  theorems or identities , and it is always possible for a law to be overturned by future observations .
are often quoted as a  आधारभूत  controlling influence rather than a description of observed facts .
I.e . `` the  कानून of गति  require that ''
Laws differ from hypotheses and postulates , which are proposed during the scientific process before and during  validation by प्रयोग  and observation .
These are not laws since they have not been verified to the same degree and may not be sufficiently general ,  हालांकि वे may सीसे to the formulation of  laws .
A law is a more solidified and formal statement ,  आसुत इससे दोहराया  experiment .
Although the concepts of a law or principle in nature is borderline to philosophy , and presents the depth to which mathematics can describe nature , scientific laws are considered from a scientific perspective and follow the scientific method ; they `` serve their purpose '' rather than `` questioning reality  '' ( philosophical ) or  `` statements of logical absolution '' ( mathematical ) .
For example , whether a law `` refers to reality '' is a  philosophical समस्या ,  rather than scientific .
Fundamentally  , all  scientific laws follow from physics , laws which occur in other sciences ultimately follow from physical laws .
Often , from  mathematically  fundamental viewpoints , universal constants emerge from scientific laws .
The launch of the PlayStation  3 into the जापानी मार्केट  on 10 November 2006 marked the second major seventh generation entertainment system to be released .
the प्रणाली थी released  seven days later on 17 November in the United States .
Introduction into other world markets was delayed by a shortage of diodes for use in the Blu-ray disc player ; the device was launched in European and other world  बाज़ार in the पहला हाफ  of 2007 .
Lauren Fenmore Baldwin  ( formerly विलियम्स और grainger ) is a fictional  character from the CBS soap operas The Young and the Restless and The Bold and the Beautiful , portrayed by Tracey E. Bregman .
She made her debut  दौरान  the episode airing on January 21 , 1983 .
In 1992 , Bregman began making sporadic  दिखावे  on The Bold and the Beautiful , later resulting in the character migrating there fully in 1995 .
Following a guest appearance in 2000 , Bregman returned to  the  Young and the Restless on August 24 , 2001 , remaining on recurring status .
In 2013 , it was announced that  bregman था महरूम लगाई  on contract .
Much of Lauren 's history has revolved around her romances with Paul Williams , Scott Grainger , Sr. , and Michael Baldwin among many others causing a fierce rivalry with Traci  Abbott  Connolly .
Lauren is also famous for her long ,  हिंसक फंसने साथ  Sheila Carter .
The 2010 NBA Finals was  the  National Basketball Association ( NBA ) championship series for the 2009–10 season .
The best-of-seven playoff was contested between the Los Angeles Lakers , champions of the Western Conference and defending NBA champions , and the Boston Celtics ,  champions of the पूर्वी  Conference .
The Lakers defeated the Celtics , four games to  तीन , to जीत the मताधिकार 's 16th  NBA championship .
The 64th edition of the championship series  थी निभाई between जून 3 और जून 17  , was broadcast on ABC , and was watched by an average of 18.1 million people .
the सेल्टिक्स अर्जित उनके  berth into the playoffs by winning the Atlantic Division .
The  लेकर्स  won the Pacific Division to earn their berth .
The Celtics reached the NBA Finals by defeating the Miami Heat in the best-of-seven Eastern Conference First Round , the Cleveland Cavaliers in the best-of-seven Eastern Conference Semifinals , and defending Eastern conference  चैंपियन ऑरलैंडो जादू in the best-of-seven  Eastern Conference Finals .
The Lakers reached the NBA Finals by defeating the Oklahoma City Thunder in the best-of-seven Western Conference First Round , the Utah Jazz in the best-of-seven  पश्चिमी सम्मेलन semifinals , और the  Phoenix Suns in the best-of-seven Western Conference Finals .
The NBA Finals were scheduled in the  प्रमुख लीग बेसबॉल  World Series 2–3–2 seven game format , with the Lakers possessing home-court advantage as a reward for finishing with better regular season record than the Celtics .
Repeated baskets from  स्टार्टर कोबे ब्रायंट  , Pau Gasol , and Ron Artest brought the Lakers close to victory in Game 1 .
A record breaking performance from Ray Allen 's eight three-point  baskets ensured the सेल्टिक्स a खेल  2 triumph .
Derek Fisher ’s 11 points in the fourth quarter helped the  लेकर्स जीत खेल  3 .
The Celtics won Game 4 ; it did n't hurt that they netted an excellent performance in baskets by the team’s  reserves ,  while Paul Pierce led the team to a Game 5 win with 27 points on 57 % shooting from the floor .
the लेकर्स avoided विलोपन  by winning a decisive Game 6 with 24 points contributed by their bench .
Although they trailed the Celtics by 13 points early in the third quarter , the Lakers rallied and  जीती उनके दूसरी लगातार चैंपियनशिप  by taking over an exciting Game 7 aided by late contributions on offense by Pau Gasol and Artest and rebounding .
Bryant was named Most Valuable Player of the Finals  लिये उसके दूसरी  consecutive trophy .
This was the  पहला एनबीए फाइनल to go the पूरा सात  games since and only the fourth since the NBA Finals returned to a 2–3–2 format in .
The Laker franchise has 16 NBA Championships ( Five in Minneapolis , 11 in Los Angeles ) trailing the Celtics '  सत्रह  championships .
The NBA Finals used the `` World Series '' Format in 1949 Minneapolis Lakers defeated the Washington Capitols 4 games to 2 ; in 1953 Minneapolis  पराजित the नई यॉर्क knicks 4 खेल to 1 ;  in 1954 Minneapolis defeated the Syracuse Nationals 4 games to 3 ; and in 1955 Syracuse Nationals defeated the Fort Wayne Pistons 4 games to 3 .
The NBA  होता वापसी  to the 2–2–1–1–1 National Hockey League seven game series format until 1985 .
Black pepper ( Piper nigrum ) is a flowering   vine in the family Piperaceae , cultivated for its fruit , which is usually dried and used as a spice and seasoning .
The fruit , known as a peppercorn when dried , is approximately in diameter , dark red when  fully वयस्क , और , जैसे सब  drupes , contains a single seed .
Peppercorns , and the ground pepper derived from them , may be described simply as pepper , or more precisely as black pepper ( cooked and  सूखी unripe फल ) , ग्रीन pepper ( सूखी unripe फल ) और श्वेत  pepper ( dried ripe seeds ) .
Black pepper is native to south India , and is  extensively cultivated वहीँ  and elsewhere in tropical regions .
Currently Vietnam is the world 's largest  निर्माता और निर्यातक  of pepper , producing 34 % of the world 's Piper nigrum crop as of 2008 .
Dried ground pepper has been used since antiquity  लिये दोनो इसके फ्लेवर और as a  medicine .
Black pepper  is the संसार  's most traded spice .
It is one of the most common spices added to European cuisine  और इसके वंशजों  .
The spiciness of black pepper is due to the chemical piperine , not to  be उलझन  with the capsaicin that gives fleshy peppers theirs .
It is in the modern world , often  युग्म  with salt .
In cardiovascular  physiology , ejection भिन्न  ( EF ) represents the volumetric fraction of blood pumped out of the ventricle ( heart ) with each heart beat or cardiac cycle .
It can be applied to either the right ventricle which ejects via the pulmonary valve into the pulmonary circulation or the left ventricle which ejects via the aortic  वाल्व into the  systemic circulation .
Imaging of the physiology of the mammalian heart is the art that allows  सार्थक गणितीय  expression defining EF .
Noninvasive cardiac imaging has become a worldwide utility  enabling पढ़ाई of हृदय प्रदर्शन  reproducibly and inexpensively .
Simplified , Ejection fraction is a mathematical product  अनुमत by हृदय  imaging .
As a mathematical term , Ejection Fraction is an  एक्सटेंशन of the कार्य  of Adolph Fick in cardiac output .
Dedicated technology such as Echocardiography , Computed Tomography , Magnetic Resonance Imaging and MUGA scanning have  definitively  allowed clinically relevant mathematics regarding Ischemia , Congenital Heart Disease and Heart Failure .
The prosecutor is the chief legal representative  of the अभियोजन in देशों  with either the common law adversarial system , or the civil law inquisitorial system .
the  prosecution is the legal party responsible for presenting the case in a criminal trial against an individual accused of breaking the law .
Strawberry shortcake most  commonly अर्थात्  a dessert in the shortcake family of cakes .
Strawberry  shortcake  may also refer to:
Strawberry Shortcake , a  अक्षर और  franchise created by American Greetings
The  shortened  title of Strawberry on the Shortcake , a Japanese romance movie .
Abū  al-qāsim muḥammad इब्न ʿabd allāh इब्न ʿabd al-muṭṭalib इब्न hāshim ( ) ( circa| 570 – circa| 8  June 632 ) , also transliterated as Muhammad ( ) , was a religious , political , and military leader from Mecca who unified Arabia into a single religious polity under Islam .
He is believed by Muslims and Bahá'ís to  be a मेसेंजर  and prophet of God .
मुहम्मद is लगभग universally  considered by Muslims as the last prophet sent by God for mankind .
Non-Muslims regard Muhammad as the founder  of islam .
Muslims consider him to  be the restorer of an अनछुए असली  monotheistic faith of Adam , Noah , Abraham , Moses , Jesus , and other prophets .
Born in about 570 CE in the Arabian city of Mecca , he was orphaned at an early age and  brought up अंतर्गत  the care of his uncle Abu Talib .
He later  worked ज़्यादातर as a व्यापारी  , as well as a shepherd , and was first married by age 25 .
Being in the habit of periodically retreating to a cave in the surrounding mountains for several nights of seclusion and prayer , he later reported that it was there , at  आयु 40 , कि he प्राप्त उसके पहला  revelation from God .
Three years after this event Muhammad started preaching these revelations publicly , proclaiming that  `` परमेश्वर is एक `` , कि  complete `` surrender '' to Him ( lit .
islām ) is the only way ( dīn ) acceptable to God , and that he himself was a prophet and messenger of God , in   the same vein as other Islamic prophets .
Muhammad gained few followers early on , and was met with hostility from some Meccan tribes ;  he और उसके अनुसरणकर्ता यहूद treated  harshly .
To escape persecution , Muhammad sent some of his followers to Abyssinia before he and his followers in Mecca migrated to Medina ( then  ज्ञात as yathrib ) in the  year 622 .
This event , the Hijra , marks the beginning of the Islamic  पंचांग , जिससे is भी  known as the Hijri Calendar .
in  Medina , Muhammad united the tribes under the Constitution of Medina .
After eight years of fighting with the Meccan tribes , his followers , who by then had grown to 10,000 , took control   of Mecca in the largely peaceful Conquest of Mecca .
He destroyed the  pagan मूर्तियों in the नगर और  then sent his followers out to destroy all of the remaining pagan temples in Eastern Arabia .
In 632 , a few  महीने बाद returning to मदीना  from The Farewell Pilgrimage , Muhammad fell ill and died .
By the time of his death , most of the Arabian Peninsula had converted to Islam , and he had united Arabia  into  a single Muslim religious polity .
The revelations ( or  ayah ,  lit .
`` Signs [ of God ] '' ) — which  मुहम्मद  reported receiving until his death – form the verses of the Quran , regarded by Muslims as the `` Word of God '' and around which the religion is based .
Besides the Quran , Muhammad 's life ( sira ) and traditions ( sunnah ) are also upheld by Muslims  as the  sources of sharia law .
They discuss Muhammad and other  नबियों of islam साथ  reverence , adding the phrase peace be upon him whenever their names are mentioned .
While conceptions of  मुहम्मद in मध्यकालीन christendom  and premodern times were largely negative , appraisals in modern history have been far less so .
The Great Books (  दूसरी संस्करण  )
Great Books of the Western World is a series of books originally published in the United States in 1952 by Encyclopædia Britannica Inc. to present the Great  किताबे in a सिंगल पैकेज  of 54 volumes .
The series  is अभी in इसके दूसरी  edition and contains 60 volumes .
The original editors of the series chose three criteria for inclusion : a book must be relevant to contemporary issues , and not only important in its historical context ; it must reward rereading ; and it must be a part of `` the great  वार्तालाप परिचय the ग्रेट विचार , '' प्रासंगिक to at तनिक  25 of the 102 great ideas identified by the editors .
Books were not chosen on the basis of ethnic  or सांस्कृतिक inclusiveness  , historical influence , or the editors ' agreement with the views expressed .
`` Cocaine '' is a  सोंग लिखा और अंकित  by JJ Cale in 1976 , but also known as a cover version recorded by Eric Clapton .
Allmusic calls the latter `` among [ Clapton 's ] most enduringly popular hits '' and notes  कि `` भी लिये an कलाकार जैसे क्लैप्टन  with a huge body of high-quality work , 'Cocaine ' ranks among his best . ''
Glyn Johns , who had previously worked with The Who , Led Zeppelin and The Rolling Stones , produced the Clapton  रिकॉर्डिंग , जिससे थी released on  Clapton 's 1977 album Slowhand and as a single in 1980 .
the सजीव संस्करण  of `` Cocaine '' , from the Just One Night album recorded in Tokyo , charted on the Billboard Hot 100 as the B-side of `` Tulsa Time `` , which was a No . 30 hit in 1980. ``
Cocaine '' was one of  अनेक of cale 's गीतों  recorded by Clapton , including `` After Midnight `` and `` Travelin ' Light '' .
The attack on Pearl Harbor ( called Hawaii Operation or Operation AI by the Japanese  इम्पीरियल सामान्य मुख्यालय ( आपरेशन  Z in planning ) and the Battle of Pearl Harbor ) was a surprise military strike conducted by the Imperial Japanese Navy against the United States naval base at Pearl Harbor , Hawaii , on the morning of December 7 , 1941 ( December 8 in Japan ) .
From the  standpoint of the  defenders , the attack commenced at 7:48 a.m. Hawaiian Time .
The attack was intended as a preventive action in order to keep the U.S. Pacific Fleet from interfering with military actions the Empire of Japan was planning in Southeast Asia against overseas territories of the United Kingdom  , the Netherlands ,  and the United States .
The base was attacked by 353 Japanese  सेनानी , बमवर्षक और  torpedo planes in two waves , launched from six aircraft carriers .
सब आठ  U.S. Navy battleships were damaged , with four being sunk .
Two of these were later raised ,  और साथ the  remaining four repaired , six battleships returned to service later in the war .
The Japanese also sank or damaged three cruisers , three destroyers , an anti-aircraft training  जलयान , और एक minelayer  .
188 U.S. aircraft were destroyed ; 2,402 Americans  यहूद  killed and 1,282 wounded .
Important base installations such as the power station , shipyard , maintenance , and fuel and torpedo storage facilities , as well as the submarine piers and headquarters  भवन ( भी घर of the प्रज्ञा  section ) were not attacked .
Japanese losses were light : 29 aircraft and five midget submarines  lost ,  and 65 servicemen killed or wounded .
One Japanese sailor was  captured  .
The attack came as a profound shock to  the अमरीकी लोगों और led सीधे to the  American entry into World War II in both the Pacific and European theaters .
The  following दिन  ( December 8 ) , the United States declared war on Japan .
Domestic support  लिये non-interventionism  , which had been strong , disappeared .
Clandestine support of Britain ( for example the Neutrality Patrol ) was  replaced by क्रियाशील गठबंधन  .
Subsequent operations  by the U.S.  prompted Germany and Italy to declare war on the U.S. on December 11 , which was reciprocated by the U.S. the same day .
There were numerous historical precedents for unannounced  सैन्य कार्रवाई  by Japan .
however , the कमी of कोई औपचारिक चेतावनी , विशेषकर  while negotiations were still apparently ongoing , led President Franklin D. Roosevelt to proclaim December 7 , 1941 , `` a date which will live in infamy `` .
Project Runway Season 2 was the second season of Bravo 's  कामयाब प्रोजेक्ट  Runway , a reality competition for fashion designers .
Season 2 began airing on December 7 ,  2005  .
Following a nationwide search earlier in  the साल , सोलह designers यहूद चुनी  as semi-finalists and brought to New York City in June , 2005 .
After the first challenge , called `` Road To The Runway '' , fourteen went on to  compete  as finalists .
The winning designer , Chloe Dao , received $ 100,000 in seed money to help launch her own line , a 2007 Saturn Sky roadster , a spread in ELLE magazine , and a mentorship with   the Banana Republic Design Team .
Winning alongside Dao was her model , Grace Kelsey , who  प्राप्त the elle  Magazine spread .
Michael Kors and Nina  गार्सिया लौटे  as judges for the second season .
The  चौथी judging सीट घुमाया  each week , based on the challenge .
Tim Gunn , fashion chair at Parsons The  नई स्कूल  for Design , returned as a mentor for the designers .
Kara Janx later  appeared in प्रोजेक्ट रनवे  : All Stars in 2012 , where she finished 7th out of 13 .
Andrae Gonzalo , in the same year , competed in  the दूसरी  season of the All Stars edition placing 10th out of 13 .
An example  of a heraclius  mule
In numismatics , a mule is a coin or medal minted with obverse and reverse designs not normally seen  on the  same piece .
These can  be जानबूझकर  or produced by error .
This type of  गलती is अत्यधिक sought बाद ,  and examples can fetch steep prices from collectors .
The earliest mules are found among ancient Greek  और रोमन  coins .
Opinion is divided between those who think that they are accidental , the result of an incorrect combination of a new die with one that had officially been withdrawn from use , or the work of coiners working with dies stolen from an official mint , perhaps at a time when one of them should have  महरूम नष्ट  .
The name derives from the mule , the hybrid offspring of a horse and a donkey , due to such  a  coin having two sides intended for different coins , much as a mule has parents of two different species .
This page documents  the tornadoes  and tornado outbreaks of 2010 .
The majority of tornadoes form in the U.S. , but they  can occur लगभग  anywhere under the right conditions .
A lesser number occur outside the U.S. , most notably in parts of neighboring southern Canada during the Northern  गोलार्ध 's गर्मियाँ ऋतु ,  but are also known in South America , Europe , Asia , and Australia .
There were 1,531 tornadoes reported in the United States in 2010 ( of which at least 1,266 were  पुष्टि )  , with 45 confirmed fatalities .
Elsewhere in the world , 11 people were killed in  tornadoes , छह in अर्जेंटीना , तीन in the बहामा  , one in Bangladesh , and one in Germany .
The year was near average for tornadoes despite an extremely quiet early spring period , however such changed after a huge  upswing starting in लेट अप्रैल और  a busy late spring and summer period .
The autumn  महीने  were slightly above average .
A lymphocyte is a  प्रकार  of white blood cell in the vertebrate immune system .
Under the microscope , lymphocytes can be divided into large lymphocytes and  छोटी  lymphocytes .
Large granular lymphocytes include natural  कातिल कोशिकाएं ( nk  cells ) .
छोटी lymphocytes  consist of T cells and B cells .
Windows PowerShell is  microsoft  's task automation framework , consisting of a command-line shell and associated scripting language built on .NET Framework .
PowerShell provides full access to COM and WMI , enabling administrators to perform administrative tasks on both  लोकल और रिमोट खिड़कियाँ  systems .
In  powershell , प्रशासनिक कार्य  are generally performed by cmdlets ( pronounced command-lets ) , which are specialized .NET classes implementing a particular operation .
Sets of cmdlets may be  संयुक्त  together in scripts , executables ( which are standalone applications ) , or by instantiating regular .NET classes ( or WMI/COM Objects ) .
These work by accessing data in different data stores , like the filesystem or registry , which are made  उपलब्धियाँ to the powershell runtime  via Windows PowerShell providers .
Windows PowerShell  भी provides  a hosting API with which the Windows PowerShell runtime can be embedded inside other applications .
These applications can then use Windows PowerShell functionality to implement certain operations , including those exposed via the graphical  इंटरफ़ेस .
This capability has been used by Microsoft Exchange Server 2007 to expose its management functionality as PowerShell cmdlets  और प्रदाताओं और implement the  graphical management tools as PowerShell hosts which invoke the necessary cmdlets .
Other Microsoft applications  सहित  Microsoft SQL Server 2008 also expose their management interface via PowerShell cmdlets .
With PowerShell , graphical interface-based  प्रबन्धन अनुप्रयोग  on Windows are layered on top of Windows PowerShell .
A PowerShell  एनक्रिप्शन इंटरफ़ेस लिये  Windows products is mandated by the Common Engineering Criteria .
Windows PowerShell  शामिल इसके  own extensive , console-based help , similar to man pages in Unix shells , via the Get-Help cmdlet .
Mary Poppins is a 1964 musical film starring Julie Andrews , Dick Van Dyke , David Tomlinson , and Glynis Johns , produced by Walt Disney ,  और आधारित on the मरियम poppins किताबे श्रेणी by P. L. ट्रेवर्स  .
The film was directed by Robert Stevenson and written by Bill Walsh and  डॉन dagradi  , with songs by the Sherman Brothers .
It was shot at Walt Disney Studios   in Burbank , California .
Julie Andrews won the Academy Award for Best Actress for her performance as Mary Poppins and the film also won Oscars for Best Film Editing , Original Music Score , Best Song for ``  chim chim cher-ee '' और बेहतरीन विज़ुअल प्रभाव , और प्राप्त  a total of 13 nominations .
A story arc is an extended or continuing storyline in episodic storytelling media such as   television , comic books , comic strips , boardgames , video games , and in some cases , films .
On a television program , for example , the story would  unfold  over many episodes .
In television , the use of the story arc is much more  आम in dramas than  in comedies , especially in soap operas .
Webcomics are more likely to use story arcs than newspaper comics , as most web comics  have readable archives online  that a newcomer to the strip can read in order to understand what is going on .
Although story arcs have existed for decades , the term `` story arc '' was coined in 1988 in relation to the television series  wiseguy , और थी  quickly adapted for other uses .
Many American comic book series are now written in four or six-issue  arcs  , within a continuing series .
Short story arcs are easier to package as trade paperbacks for resale , and more accessible to the casual reader than the never-ending continuity that once characterised   comics .
Black Friday is the day following Thanksgiving Day in the United States , often regarded as the  शुरूआत of the क्रिसमस  shopping season .
In  हाल  years , most major retailers have opened extremely early and offered promotional sales to kick off the holiday shopping season , similar to Boxing Day sales in many Commonwealth Nations .
Black Friday is not an official public holiday as such , but many non-retail employees and schools have both Thanksgiving and the day after off , followed  by a  weekend , thereby increasing the number of potential shoppers .
It has routinely been  the व्यस्ततम खरीदारी दिन of the साल चूंकि 2005 , हालांकि  news reports , which at that time were inaccurate , have described it as the busiest shopping day of the year for a much longer period of time .
The day 's name originated in Philadelphia , where it originally was used to describe the heavy and  विघटनकारी पैदल और गाडी ट्रैफ़िक  which would occur on the day after Thanksgiving .
Use of the term started before 1961 and began  to देखिए  broader use outside Philadelphia around 1975 .
Later an alternative explanation began to be offered : that `` Black Friday '' indicates the point at which retailers begin to turn a profit  ,  or are `` '' .
For many  सालो , it थी  common for retailers to open at 6:00 a.m. , but in the late 2000s many had crept to 5:00 or even 4:00 .
This was taken to a new extreme in  2011 , जब अनेक  retailers ( including Target , Kohl 's , Macy 's , Best Buy , and Bealls ) opened at midnight for the first time .
In 2012 , Walmart and several other retailers announced that they would open most of their stores at 8:00 p.m. on Thanksgiving Day ( except in states  जहाँ खोलने on थैंक्सगिविंग is निषिद्ध due to ब्लू कानून , ऐसे as मैसाचुसेट्स  where they still opened around midnight ) , prompting calls for a walkout among some workers .
ब्लैक शुक्रवार खरीदारी is ज्ञात लिये attracting  aggressive crowds , with annual reports of assaults , shootings , and throngs of people trampling on other shoppers in an attempt to get the best deal on a product before supplies run out .
The Family That Preys is a 2008 American  movie drama written ,  produced , and directed by Tyler Perry .
the पटकथा focuses on दो परिवारों , एक धनवान और the अन्य working क्लास , जिनकी जीवनदान हैं intertwined in दोनो प्रेम और कारोबार .
The movie is the  दूसरी of चार in जिससे  Perry 's signature character , Madea , does not make an appearance .
It is also the second Perry-directed film ( alongside Daddy 's Little Girls ) that is  नहीं आधारित on कोई of  the filmmaker 's stage plays .
Net 10 , Net 15 , Net 30 and Net 60 ( also Net 10 days , et al ) are forms of trade credit which specify that the net amount ( the total outstanding on the invoice ) is expected to  be सशुल्क in पूरा और प्राप्त by the विक्रेता भीतर 10 , 15 ,  30 or 60 days after the goods are dispatched or service is completed .
Net 30 or  जाल 60 शर्तें हैं  often coupled with a credit for early payment .
The word net in this  भाव अर्थात्  `` total after all discounts . ''
It originally derives from the Latin nitere ( to shine ) and nitidus ( elegant , trim ) , and more  recently इससे the फ्रेंच जाल ( शार्प  , neat , clean ) .
roadtown  , Tortola
The British West Indies were  the  islands in and around the Caribbean that were part of the British Empire .
In 1912 , the British West Indies were divided into eight colonies : The Bahamas , Barbados , British Guiana , British Honduras , Jamaica ( with its dependencies the Turks and Caicos Islands and the Cayman Islands ) , Trinidad and  टोबैगो , the  Windward Islands and the Leeward Islands .
Between 1958 and 1962 , all of the island territories except the British Virgin Islands , the Bahamas  , अंग्रेजों होंडुरास  and British Guiana were organised into the West Indies Federation .
It was hoped that the Federation would become independent as a single nation , but it had limited powers , many practical  समस्याएं , और  a lack of popular support .
Consequently ,  the वेस्ट  Indies Federation was dissolved .
Most of the territories , including all the larger ones , are now independent as separate countries , with membership to many international forums such as the Organization of American States , the Association of Caribbean States , the World Trade Organization , the United Nations , the  caribbean जातियाँ , the राष्ट्रमंडल of राष्ट्र  and the Caribbean Development Bank among others .
The remainder are British  विदेशी territories  .
All the former nations of the British West Indies , except  the राष्ट्रमंडल of डोमिनिकन ,  Guyana and Trinidad and Tobago , are Commonwealth Realms .
The term is still used for British Overseas Territories in the Caribbean , such as the Cayman  आइलैंड्स  .
The remaining British  वेस्ट इंडीज
``  कया a अद्भुत संसार '' is a सोंग लिखा  by Bob Thiele ( as `` George Douglas '' ) and George David Weiss .
It was first  अंकित by लुई आर्मस्ट्रांग  and released as a single in 1967 .
Thiele and Weiss were both prominent in the  म्यूज़िक संसार ( thiele as a निर्माता  and Weiss as a composer/performer ) .
Armstrong 's recording was inducted in the  ग्रैमी हॉल of कीर्ति  in 1999 .
The publishing for  इस सोंग is नियंत्रित by मेमोरी  Lane Music Group , Carlin Music Corp. , and Bug Music , Inc .
Inauguration Day 2009 on   the west steps of the U.S. Capitol .
President George W. Bush and First Lady Laura Bush lead the inaugural parade down  पेन्सिलवेनिया  Avenue to the White House , 2005
The inauguration of the president of  the संयुक्त राज्य is a ceremonial  event marking the commencement of a new four-year term of a president of the United States .
The  दिन a अध्यक्षीय उद्घाटन  occurs is known as `` Inauguration Day '' and occurs on January 20 ( or 21st if the 20th is a Sunday ) .
( Prior to the Twentieth Amendment , the date was March 4 , the day of the year on  जिससे the संविधान of the संयुक्त राज्य पहला  took effect in 1789 ; the last inauguration to take place on the older date was Franklin D. Roosevelt 's first one on March 4 , 1933 . )
The most recent public presidential inauguration ceremony , the swearing in of President Barack Obama to begin his second four-year  पद in दफ्तर , took प्लेस on सोमवार  , January 21 , 2013 .
The only inauguration element mandated by the United States Constitution is that the president make an oath or affirmation before that person can `` enter  on the निष्पादन '' of the दफ्तर  of the presidency .
However , over the years , various traditions have arisen that have expanded  the उद्घाटन इससे a सरल  oath-taking ceremony to a day-long event , including parades , speeches , and balls .
From the presidency of Andrew Jackson through that of Jimmy Carter , the primary Inauguration Day ceremony took place on  the कैपिटल 's  East Portico .
Since the 1981 inauguration of Ronald Reagan , the ceremony has been  आयोजित at the कैपिटल  's West Front .
The inaugurations of William Howard Taft in 1909 and Reagan in 1985 were moved indoors at the  कैपिटल due  to cold weather .
The War of  1812 और संसार युद्ध  II caused two inaugurations to be held at other locations in Washington , D.C .
When George Washington was inaugurated , the oath was administered by Robert Livingston , Chancellor of New York State , in 1789 , and by William   Cushing , Associate Justice of the Supreme Court , in 1793 .
Since Chief Justice Oliver Ellsworth swore in  अध्यक्ष जॉन एडम्स  , no chief justice has missed an Inauguration Day .
When Inauguration Day has fallen on a Sunday  , the मुख्य इंसाफ रै administered the शपथ  to the president on the Sunday privately and then again the next day publicly .
When a new president takes over mid-term due to the death or  इस्तीफा of a अध्यक्ष  , the oath of office is administered but formal , public inauguration events have not been held .
Stefani  जोआन एंजेलीना germanotta ( ; born कूच  28 , 1986 ) , known by her stage name Lady Gaga , is an American singer , songwriter , record producer , dancer , activist , businesswoman , fashion designer , actress and philanthropist .
Born and raised in New York City , she primarily studied at the Convent of the  पवित्र दिल और briefly attended नई यॉर्क  University 's Tisch School of the Arts before withdrawing to focus on her musical career .
She soon began performing in the rock music scene of Manhattan 's   Lower East Side .
By the end of 2007 , record executive and producer Vincent Herbert  हस्ताक्षरित उसके to  his label Streamline Records , an imprint of Interscope Records .
Initially working as a songwriter at Interscope Records , her vocal abilities captured the  ध्यान of रिकॉर्डिंग कलाकार  Akon , who also signed her to Kon Live Distribution , his own label under Interscope .
Lady Gaga came to prominence as a recording  कलाकार  following the release of her debut album , The Fame ( 2008 ) , which was a critical and commercial success that topped charts around the world and included the international number-one singles `` Just Dance `` and `` Poker Face `` .
After embarking on the The Fame Ball Tour , she followed the album with The Fame Monster ( 2009 ) , which spawned the worldwide hit  singles `` ख़राब रोमांस  `` , `` Telephone `` , and `` Alejandro `` .
The Fame Monsters success allowed her to embark on the  eighteen-month  long Monster Ball Tour , which later became one of the highest-grossing concert tours of all time .
Her most recent album , Born This Way ( 2011 ) , topped the charts of most major markets and generated  अधिक अंतरराष्ट्रीय chart-topping singles , सहित ``  Born This Way `` , `` Judas `` , and `` The Edge of Glory `` .
Influenced by Britney Spears , David Bowie , Michael Jackson , Madonna , and Queen , Lady Gaga is recognized for her flamboyant , diverse and outré  योगदान to  the music industry through her fashion , performances and music videos .
As of October 2011 , she has sold an estimated 23 million albums and 64 million singles  विश्वव्यापी और उसके  singles are some of the best-selling worldwide .
उसके उपलब्धियाँ शामिल पाँच ग्रैमी पुरस्कार और 13 एमटीवी वीडियो म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार  .
Lady Gaga has consecutively appeared on Billboard magazine 's Artists of the Year ( scoring the definitive title in 2010 ) , ranked fourth in  vh1 's सूची of 100 महानतम महिलाओं in म्यूज़िक , is the छठे बेहतरीन selling डिजिटल singles कलाकार in us according to riaa  , is regularly placed on lists composed by Forbes magazine and was named one of the most influential people in the world by Time magazine .
Besides her musical career , she involves herself with  humanitarian कल्याणकारी  and LGBT activism .
McKethan Stadium home of  घड़ियाल  baseball
A picture of the  1924 बेसबॉल  team
The Florida  gators बेसबॉल टोली  represents the University of Florida in the sport of baseball .
The Florida Gators  compete in प्रभाग i of the नेशनल  Collegiate Athletics Association ( NCAA ) , and the Eastern Division of the Southeastern Conference ( SEC ) .
They play their home games  in अल्फ्रेड  A. McKethan Stadium on the university 's Gainesville , Florida campus , and are currently led by head coach Kevin O'Sullivan .
In the ninety-eight season history of the Gators baseball program , the team has won twelve SEC championships and has appeared in eight College  संसार श्रेणी  tournaments .
`` electioneering '' redirects यहाँ .
For the  radiohead  song , see OK Computer .
Presidential  अभियान बटन लिये अब्राहम  Lincoln , 1860 .
The reverse side of the  बटन shows a पोर्ट्रेट  of his running mate Hannibal Hamlin .
A political campaign is an organized effort which seeks to influence the  निर्णय बनाना प्रक्रम  within a specific group .
In democracies , political campaigns often refer to electoral campaigns , wherein representatives  हैं चुनी or referendums  are decided .
In modern politics , the most  ऊँची प्रोफ़ाइल राजनैतिक अभियान हैं  focused on candidates for head of state or head of government , often a President or Prime Minister .
Elizabeth Cady  stanton  and her daughter , Harriot
Elizabeth Cady Stanton ( November 12 , 1815 – October 26 , 1902 ) was an American social  activist , abolitionist  , and leading figure of the early women 's rights movement .
Her Declaration of Sentiments , presented at the first women 's rights convention  आयोजित in 1848 in seneca  Falls , New York , is often credited with initiating the first organized women 's rights and women 's suffrage movements in the United States .
Before Stanton narrowed her  political  focus almost exclusively to women 's rights , she was an active abolitionist together with her husband , Henry Brewster Stanton and cousin , Gerrit Smith .
Unlike many of those involved in the women 's rights movement  , stanton addressed विभिन्न मुद्दे pertaining  to women beyond voting rights .
Her concerns included women 's parental and custody  अधिकारों , प्रॉपर्टी अधिकारों , नियुक्ति और आय अधिकारों  , divorce , the economic health of the family , and birth control .
She was also an outspoken supporter of  the 19th-century  temperance movement .
After the American Civil War , Stanton 's commitment to female suffrage caused a schism in the  महिलाओं 's अधिकारों गति जब वो , साथ साथ  Susan B. Anthony , declined to support passage of the Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments to the United States Constitution .
She opposed giving added  विधिक सुरक्षा और  voting rights to African American men while women , black and white , were denied those same rights .
Her position on this issue , together with her thoughts on organized Christianity and women 's issues beyond voting rights , led to the formation of two separate women 's rights organizations  कि यहूद आखिरकार rejoined , साथ stanton as अध्यक्ष of  the joint organization , approximately twenty years after her break from the original women 's suffrage movement .
Stanton died  in 1902  having authored both The Woman 's Bible and her autobiography , along with many articles and pamphlets concerning female suffrage and women 's rights .
My Fair Lady is a musical based upon George Bernard  शॉ 's pygmalion और साथ  book and lyrics by Alan Jay Lerner and music by Frederick Loewe .
the स्टोरी चिंताएं eliza doolittle , a काकनी  flower girl who takes speech lessons from professor Henry Higgins , a phoneticist , so that she may pass as a well-born lady .
The musical 's 1956 Broadway production was a hit , setting what was  तब the रिकार्ड  for the longest run of any major musical theatre production in history .
It was followed by a hit London production , a  लोकप्रिय फिल्मी संस्करण , और  numerous revivals .
It has been called `` the perfect  musical  '' .
Deregulation is the act or process of removing or reducing state  regulations  .
it is इसलिए विपरीत of विनियमन , जिससे refers to the प्रक्रम of the सरकारी regulating निश्चित क्रियाएँ  .
The  बोस्टन bruins रेडियो संजाल is a 25-station ( 17 a.M.  , 8 F.M . plus 2 F.M . translators ) CBS Radio network which carries live game broadcasts of the Boston Bruins .
The  संजाल 's  flagship station is WBZ-FM /98.5- Boston , Massachusetts .
Dave  goucher  announces play-by-play .
Bob  beers  provides color commentary .
This  आलेख is  about the short story .
For the poem by Sara  teasdale , देखिए वहीँ  Will Come Soft Rains .
`` There Will Come Soft Rains '' is a short story by science fiction author Ray  bradbury  which was first published in the May 6 , 1950 issue of Collier 's .
Later that same year the story  थी शामिल  in Bradbury 's The Martian Chronicles ( 1950 ) .
With over 1.2 billion people , Han Chinese is the  largest  ethnic group in the world .
Pashtun people of the  pashtunistan प्रदेश , जिससे  sits in an area between south of the Hindu Kush in Afghanistan and the Indus River in Pakistan .
They number around 50  लाख  .
The Korowai people of Papua numbered just around 3,000 people , and were  uncontacted जबतक  the 1970s .
Ethnicity or ethnic group  is a socially  defined category based on common culture or nationality .
नस्ल can , लकिन  does not have to , include common ancestry , appearance , cuisine , dressing style , heritage , history , language or dialect , religion , symbols , traditions , or other cultural factor .
Ethnic identity is constantly reinforced  through आम विशेषताएँ जिससे  set the group apart from other groups .
The 19.9 MW Gemasolar solar plant in Spain features 15 hours  of भंडार और can सप्लाई  power 24 hours a day .
Solar energy , radiant light and heat from the sun , has been harnessed  by humans  since ancient times using a range of ever-evolving technologies .
Solar energy technologies include solar heating , solar photovoltaics , solar thermal electricity  , सौर वास्तुकला और कृत्रिम photosynthesis , जिससे  can make considerable contributions to solving some of the most urgent energy problems the world now faces .
Solar technologies are broadly  characterized as either passive सौर or  active solar depending on the way they capture , convert and distribute solar energy .
Active solar techniques include the use of photovoltaic panels and solar thermal collectors  to दोहन the उर्जा  .
Passive solar techniques include orienting a  भवन to the सूर्य , selecting सामग्री साथ  favorable thermal mass or light dispersing properties , and designing spaces that naturally circulate air .
In 2011 , the International Energy Agency said that `` the development of  सस्ती , inexhaustible और साफ सौर उर्जा  technologies will have huge longer-term benefits .
It will increase  countries’ उर्जा सुरक्षा through  reliance on an indigenous , inexhaustible and mostly import-independent resource , enhance sustainability , reduce pollution , lower the costs of mitigating climate change , and keep fossil fuel prices lower than otherwise .
These  लाभ  are global .
Hence the additional costs of the incentives for early deployment should be considered learning investments ; they must  be बुद्धिमानी खर्च और need to be widely साझा  '' .
The classical Latin alphabet or Roman alphabet evolved from a western variety of the  यूनानी वर्णमाला पुकारा the cumaean  alphabet , which was adopted and modified by the Etruscans who ruled early Rome .
The Etruscan alphabet was in turn adopted and further  परिवर्धित by the प्राचीन  Romans to write the Latin language .
During the Middle Ages , the Latin alphabet was adapted to Romance languages , direct descendants of Latin , as  खूब as to सेल्टिक , germanic , बाल्टिक , और  some Slavic languages .
With the age of  उपनिवेशवाद और ईसाई  evangelism , the Latin script was spread overseas , and applied to indigenous American , Australian , Austronesian , Austroasiatic , and African languages .
More recently  , linguists  have also tended to prefer the Latin script or the International Phonetic Alphabet ( itself largely based on Latin script ) when transcribing or creating written standards for non-European languages , such as the African reference alphabet .
The term Latin alphabet may refer to  either the वर्णमाला प्रयुक्त to लिखें  Latin ( as described in this article ) , or other alphabets based on the Latin script , which is the basic set of letters common to the various alphabets descended from the classical Latin one , such as the English alphabet .
These Latin-derived alphabets may discard letters , like the Rotokas alphabet , or add  नई अक्षर  , like the Danish and Norwegian alphabet .
Letter shapes have changed over the centuries , including the creation for Medieval Latin of lower case forms which did not exist in the   Classical period .
The  हत्या of  United States President Abraham Lincoln took place on Good Friday , April 14 , 1865 , as the American Civil War was drawing to a close .
The assassination occurred five days after the commander of  the confederate फौज of उत्तरी वर्जिनिया , सामान्य रॉबर्ट E.  Lee , surrendered to Lieutenant General Ulysses S. Grant and the Union Army of the Potomac .
Lincoln was the first American president to be  assassinated , हालांकि an unsuccessful  attempt had been made on Andrew Jackson 30 years before in 1835 .
The assassination was planned and carried out by the well-known stage actor John Wilkes Booth , as part of a larger conspiracy  in a बोली to revive the  Confederate cause .
Booth 's co-conspirators were Lewis Powell and David Herold , who were assigned to kill Secretary of  राज्य विलियम  H. Seward , and George Atzerodt who was to kill Vice President Andrew Johnson .
By simultaneously   eliminating the top three people in the administration , Booth and his co-conspirators hoped to sever the continuity of the United States government .
lincoln  was shot while watching the play Our American Cousin with his wife Mary Todd Lincoln at Ford 's Theatre in Washington , D.C. on the night of April 14 , 1865 .
He died  जल्दी the  next morning .
The rest of the conspirators ' plot failed ; Powell only managed to wound Seward , while Atzerodt , Johnson 's  would-be हत्यारे , खोया उसके तंत्रिका  and fled Washington .
Add-on  might mean:
Plug-in ( computing ) , a piece of software which enhances another software application and  प्रायः  can not be run independently
ब्राउजर एक्सटेंशन  , which modifies the interface and/or behavior of web browsers
Add-on ( Mozilla ) , a piece of software that enhances and  customizes mozilla-based  applications
Add-ons for Firefox ( addons.mozilla.org ) , the official Mozilla Foundation  वेब साईट जिससे serves as a repository  of add-ons for Mozilla-based applications
Peripheral , an optional computer hardware component that significantly supplements or enhances the  कार्यक्षमता  of the original unit
Video game accessory , a piece of hardware  प्रयुक्त  in conjunction with a video game console for playing video games
Club level seating is a special section of seating  in  modern sports stadiums .
The Club Level is usually located towards the middle of the stage of seating sections ,  ऊपर the निम्नतर डेक  but below the upper deck .
They are  प्रायः  right next to the Luxury Boxes , either right above , right below , or sandwiched between two levels of Luxury Boxes .
Club Level seating is considered as  उच्चतर क्लास than बैठे anywhere  else in the arena , but lower class compared to the Luxury Boxes .
Unlike the Luxury Boxes ,  सबसे क्लबों स्तर do नहीं रैप  entirely around the arena .
Some club levels stop at a certain point , giving  रास्ता  to an expansion of the Mezzanine , while others give way to lower class Luxury Boxes ( such as `` Party Suites '' ) .
A notable exception to this is Emirates Stadium in London , which has a complete  टियर of क्लबों seating  .
Club Levels allow fans  अनेक  levels of entertainment .
क्लबों स्तर  seating is open to the elements , as opposed to the entirely enclosed luxury boxes , which gives more of an outdoors impression at roofless and open-roof stadiums and arenas .
Club Level seating is normally bought on a contract basis to allow for  अधिकतम  profit on the part of the stadium .
The Club Level  provides प्रशंसक साथ खास अभिगम to an अंदर भाग of the एरिना विशेष to प्रशंसक साथ खास टिकटें .
These areas are air conditioned and allow  अभिगम to  special restaurants , merchandise stands , and lounge areas of the stadium that are not otherwise available .
Concession stands and vendors on the Club Level also often offer different menus than in other stands to give  अधिक of a  special feel to the Club .
These areas are closed off to the rest of  the स्टेडियम  , and they usually can only be accessed through the exclusive , private club entrances .
Sophia Loren ( ; born Sofia Villani Scicolone ; 20 September 1934 ) is an  इतालवी  actress .
Loren is widely  पहचाना as इटली  's most renowned and honored actress .
She was the first actress of  the talkie era to जीत an अकादमी पुरस्कार  for a non-English-speaking performance , for her portrayal of Cesira in Vittorio De Sica 's Two Women .
Her other awards include a Grammy Award , five special Golden Globes , a BAFTA Award and  a  Laurel Award .
in 1995 वो प्राप्त the  Cecil B. DeMille Award for lifetime achievements , one of many such awards .
Her films include : Houseboat ( 1958 ) , El Cid ( 1961 ) , Yesterday , Today and Tomorrow ( 1963 ) , Marriage  italian-style  ( 1964 ) , and A Special Day ( 1977 ) .
In later years she has appeared in American blockbusters such as Grumpier Old Men ( 1995 ) , and  नौ  ( 2009 ) .
In 1994 she starred in Robert  altman  's Prêt-à-Porter , which earned her a Golden Globe nomination the same year .
She has also  हासिल  critical and commercial success in TV movies such as Courage ( 1986 ) .
Deaths for self-inflicted  चोटों प्रति 100,000 निवासियों  in 2004 .
Incidence of suicide is underreported due to both religious and  सोशल pressures  , and possibly completely unreported in some areas .
Nevertheless , from reported cases ,  निश्चित रुझान हैं apparent  .
Since the data is skewed , comparing suicide rates between nations is  statistically  unsound .
The trends themselves are not the  कारण  , but may be indicative of a root cause .
The Oprah Winfrey Leadership Academy for Girls - South Africa is a female boarding school founded in January 2007 and located in Henley on Klip near Meyerton , south of  जोहान्सबर्ग , दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी  .
The academy was founded by Oprah Winfrey with the goal of  providing शैक्षणिक और  leadership opportunities for academically gifted girls from impoverished backgrounds .
Oprah Winfrey  नेतृत्व अकादमी  for Girls
Digicel is a mobile phone network provider operating  in 31 बाज़ार आरपार the caribbean , सेंट्रल  America , and Oceania regions .
The company is owned by Irishman Denis O'Brien , is incorporated in Bermuda   , and based in Jamaica .
It has  परिचय 13  million wireless users .
As of 2012 , Digicel 's markets comprise : Anguilla , Antigua and Barbuda , Aruba , Barbados , Bermuda , Bonaire , the British Virgin Islands , the Cayman Islands , Curacao , Dominica , El Salvador , Fiji , French Guiana , Grenada , Guadeloupe , Guyana , Haiti , Jamaica , Martinique , Nauru , Panama , Papua New  गिनी , समोआ , संत  Kitts and Nevis , Saint Lucia , Saint Vincent and the Grenadines , Suriname , Tonga , Trinidad & Tobago , Turks and Caicos , and Vanuatu .
This is a list of  रिकॉर्ड of the फीफा  World Cup and its qualification matches .
Hospital Emergency Codes are used in hospitals worldwide to  चेतावनी स्टाफ to विभिन्न emergencies  .
The use of codes is intended to convey essential information quickly and with  minimal गलतफहमी  to staff , while preventing stress and panic among visitors to the hospital .
These codes may be posted on placards throughout the hospital , or  printed on  employee identification badges for ready reference .
Back of a  हॉस्पिटल  ID badge showing disaster codes .
Hospital emergency codes may denote  अलग  events at different hospitals , including nearby ones .
Because many physicians work at more than one facility , this may lead to confusion in  emergencies , so वर्दी  systems have been proposed .
The route of the Eifel aqueduct , with  इसके औसत ढलान  .
The Eifel  जलसेतु थी एक of  the longest aqueducts of the Roman Empire .
The aqueduct , constructed in AD 80 , carried water some from the hilly Eifel region  of  what is now Germany to the ancient city of Colonia Claudia Ara Agrippinensium ( present-day Cologne ) .
If the  auxiliary स्पर्स  to additional springs are included , the length was .
The construction was  लगभग entirely नीचे मैदान  , and the flow of the water was produced entirely by gravity .
A few  पुलों  , including one up to in length , were needed to pass over valleys .
Unlike  कुछ of the अन्य प्रसिद्ध  Roman aqueducts , the Eifel aqueduct was specifically designed to minimize the above-ground portion to protect it from damage and freezing .
In chemistry , a disulfide bond ( Br.E . disulphide bond ) is a covalent bond , usually derived by the  coupling  of two thiol groups .
The linkage is also called an SS-bond or disulfide bridge  .
The overall connectivity is  इसलिए r-s-s-r  .
The terminology is  widely प्रयुक्त  in biochemistry .
In formal terms , the connection is a persulfide , in analogy to its congener , peroxide ( R-O-O-R ) , but  इस शब्दावली  is obscure and is no longer used ( except in reference to R-S-S-H or H-S-S-H compounds ) .
औपचारिक चित्रण  of disulfide bond formation as an oxidation .
Westminster  ऐबी is  used for the coronation of British monarchs
Religion in the United Kingdom and in the countries that preceded it , has been  वर्चस्व , लिये over 1,400  years , by various forms of Christianity .
According to some surveys , a majority of citizens still identify with Christianity , although regular church attendance has  गिरे dramatically चूंकि the मध्य of the 20th सदी , और आव्रजन  and demographic change have contributed to the growth of other faiths .
Religious affiliations of UK citizens are recorded by regular surveys , the four major ones being the UK Census , the Labour Force  सर्वेक्षण , the अंग्रेजों सोशल attitudes सर्वेक्षण और the यूरोपीय सोशल सर्वेक्षण  .
According to the 2001 UK census , Christianity is the major religion , followed by Islam , Hinduism , Sikhism , Judaism and Buddhism in  शर्तें of क्रमांक  of adherents .
This , and the relatively large number of individuals with nominal or no religious affiliations has led commentators to variously  describe the संयुक्त किंगडम as a multi-faith  , secularised , or post-Christian society .
The United Kingdom was formed by the union of previously independent countries from 1707 , and  नतीजतन  most of the largest religious groups do not have UK-wide organisational structures .
While some groups have separate  structures for the  individual countries of the United Kingdom , others may have a single structure covering England and Wales or Great Britain .
Similarly , due to the relatively recent creation of Northern Ireland in 1921 , most  प्रमुख धार्मिक समूह in उत्तरी आयरलैंड  are organised on an all-Ireland basis .
The 1967 Newark riots were a major civil  disturbance कि occurred in the नगर of  Newark , New Jersey between July 12 and July 17 , 1967 .
The six days of rioting , looting , and destruction left 26 dead  और सैंकड़ों  injured .
In United States college athletics ,  redshirt is a विलंब or बर्खास्तगी  of an athlete 's participation in order to lengthen his or her period of eligibility .
Typically , a student  's एथलेटिक पात्रता in a दिए  sport is four seasons , a number derived from the four years of academic classes that are normally required to obtain a bachelor 's degree at an American college or university .
however , a छात्र खिलाड़ी may be offered the अवसर to  redshirt for up to two years , which allows the athlete to spread those four years of eligibility over five , or sometimes six years .
In a redshirt  साल , a छात्र खिलाड़ी may attend  classes at the college or university , practice with an athletic team , and dress for play but he or she may not compete during the game .
Using this mechanism , a student  खिलाड़ी रै up to पाँच  academic years to use the four years of eligibility , thus becoming a fifth-year senior .
The term is  प्रयुक्त as a क्रिया , संज्ञा  , and adjective .
For example , a coach may choose to redshirt a player who is then referred to as a redshirt  freshman or बस a redshirt  .
The opposite of  इस is  a `` true freshman . ''
World War I ( WWI ) was  a वैश्विक युद्ध केंद्रित in यूरोपीय  that began on 28 July 1914 and lasted until 11 November 1918 .
It was predominantly called the World War  or the ग्रेट युद्ध इससे इसके occurrence  until the start of World War II in 1939 , and the First World War or World War I thereafter .
It involved all the world 's great powers , which were assembled in two opposing alliances : the Allies ( based on the Triple Entente of the United Kingdom , France and  रूस ) और the सेंट्रल शक्तियां  ( originally the Triple Alliance of Germany , Austria-Hungary and Italy ; but , as Austria–Hungary had taken the offensive against the agreement , Italy did not enter into the war ) .
These alliances were both reorganised  and  expanded as more nations entered the war : Italy , Japan and the United States joined the Allies , and the Ottoman Empire and Bulgaria the Central Powers .
Ultimately , more than 70  लाख सैन्य कर्मियों , सहित  60 million Europeans , were mobilised in one of the largest wars in history .
More than 9 million combatants were killed , largely because of technological advancements that led to enormous increases in the lethality  of हथियार  without corresponding improvements in protection or mobility .
It was the fifth- deadliest conflict in world history , subsequently paving the way for various political changes , such as  revolutions in अनेक of the राष्ट्र शामिल  .
One of the long-term causes of the war was the resurgence of imperialism  in the विदेशी  policies of the great powers of Europe .
More immediately , the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria , the heir to the throne of Austria-Hungary , on 28 June 1914 by Yugoslav nationalist Gavrilo Princip in Sarajevo triggered a diplomatic crisis when Austria-Hungary subsequently  वितरित an ultimatum to the किंगडम of  Serbia .
Several alliances  formed over  the previous decades were invoked .
Within weeks , the major powers were at war and , via their colonies , the conflict soon spread  around the संसार  .
On 28 July , the Austro-Hungarians fired the first shots of the war as  तैयारी लिये the आक्रमण of सर्बिया  .
While  the Russians  mobilised , the Germans invaded neutral Belgium and Luxembourg on the way to France , providing a casus belli for Britain 's declaration of war against Germany .
After the German march on Paris was  brought to a halt—the so-called चमत्कार of the  Marne —the Western Front settled into a static battle of attrition with a trench line that changed little until 1917 .
On the Eastern Front , the Russian army was successful against the  austro-hungarians , लकिन थी रोका in इसके आक्रमण  of East Prussia by the Germans .
In November the Ottoman Empire joined the  युद्ध , खोलने up  fronts in the Caucasus , Mesopotamia and the Sinai .
Italy and Bulgaria went to war  in  1915 and Romania in 1916 .
In Russia , the  त्सार 's सरकारी collapsed  in March 1917 and a subsequent revolution in November brought the Russians to terms with the Central Powers .
After a 1918 German offensive along the western front , the  allies drove वापस the germans  in a series of successful offensives and American forces began entering the trenches .
Germany , which had its own trouble with revolutionaries , agreed to an  armistice on 11  November 1918 .
The war ended in victory  लिये the  Allies .
Events on the home fronts were as tumultuous as on the battle fronts , as the  भागीदार आजमाया to mobilize उनके  manpower and economic resources to fight a total war .
By the end of the war , four major imperial powers—the German , Russian , Austro-Hungarian  और उस्मानी empires—ceased  to exist .
The successor  राज्य of the पूर्व दो खोया  a great amount of territory , while the latter two were dismantled entirely .
The map of central Europe was  redrawn into  several smaller states .
The League of Nations was formed in  the आशा of preventing another  such conflict .
The European nationalism spawned by  the युद्ध और the ब्रेकअप of  empires , the repercussions of Germany 's defeat and problems with the Treaty of Versailles are agreed to be factors contributing to World War II .
Map of countries that declared themselves to be  समाजवादी राज्य  under the Marxist–Leninist or Maoist definition - that is to say , `` Communist states '' - between 1979 and 1983 .
इस  period marked the greatest territorial extent of Communist states .
A communist state is a state where  the अर्थात्  of production are collectively owned by the society .
It has a form of government characterized by single-party rule or dominant-party rule of a communist party ( referred as Dictatorship of the Proletariat by its proponents ) and a  professed निष्ठा  to a Leninist or Marxist–Leninist ideology as the guiding principle of the state .
Technically , `` communist state '' is a contradictio in  terminis as a कम्युनिस्ट समाज  as defined by both Marxists and anarcho-communists is in principle stateless .
इससे इस परिप्रेक्ष्य  , the term Marxist-Leninist state is more appropriate .
Historically , a ``  कम्युनिस्ट राज्य '' referred to a प्रणाली जहाँ  public ownership of all or most means of production by the Communist party -run state is deemed necessary to further the interests of the working class ; today , a communist state can also , for instance , refer to contemporary China and Vietnam , where a Communist Party-run state exists alongside a mixed economy .
According to Marxist–Leninists , the state is a tool in the hands of the ruling class , which in a socialist society is the working class , so a socialist state is , according to Leninists  , a राज्य of the  working class .
In practice , communist states do not actually refer to themselves as  ऐसे .
They do this not to disguise the fact that the  सत्ताधारी पार्टी  is communist , but rather because they do not consider themselves to be a communist society at present .
Instead , they constitutionally identify themselves as  समाजवादी राज्य  or workers ' states .
The primary goal of these states , which also explains their official name , is to guide their  संबंधित  countries in the process of building socialism , ultimately leading to communism .
Communist states may have several legal political  पार्टियों , लकिन the कम्युनिस्ट पार्टी is  usually granted a special or dominant role in government , often by statute or under the constitution .
Consequently , the institutions of the state and of the  कम्युनिस्ट  party become intimately entwined , such as in the development of parallel institutions .
In the 20th century , most communist states  अपनाया नियोजित  economies .
However , there were exceptions : The Soviet Union during the 1920s and late 1980s and Yugoslavia  बाद संसार युद्ध ii अनुमत सीमित  markets and a degree of worker self-management , while China , Vietnam and Laos introduced far-reaching market reforms after the 1980s .
In  the 21st सदी ,  China and Vietnam have allowed a mixed economy to develop .
The fundamental concepts of communist states  प्रायः  diverge from the original socio-economic ideologies from which they develop .
As a result , many adherents of these ideologies often oppose the political  प्रणालियों commonly संबद्ध साथ  these states .
For example , dissenting communists such as Trotskyists were often opposed to the communist states of the 20th century , claiming either that they had  nothing to  do with `` real '' communism or that the ideology of such states had reached a point of irrevocable corruption .
Michael Fred Phelps II ( born June 30 , 1985 ) is a retired American swimmer and the most  सजा ओलंपियन of सब समय , साथ a कुल  of 22 medals .
Phelps also holds the all-time records  लिये ओलम्पिक सुनहरा  medals ( 18 , double the second highest record holders ) , Olympic gold medals in individual events ( 11 ) , and Olympic medals in individual events for a male ( 13 ) .
In winning eight gold medals at the 2008 Beijing Games , Phelps took the record for the most  first-place  finishes at any single Olympic Games .
Five of those victories were in individual events ,  tying the सिंगल खेल रिकार्ड  .
In the 2012 Summer Olympics in London , Phelps won four golds and two silver medals , making him the most  कामयाब  athlete of the Games for the third Olympics in a row .
Phelps is the long course world  recordholder in the 100-meter तितली , 200-meter तितली  and 400-meter individual medley as well as the former long course world recordholder in the 200-meter freestyle and 200-meter individual medley .
He has won a total of 71 medals in major international long-course competition , 57 gold , 11 silver , and three bronze spanning  the Olympics ,  the World , and the Pan Pacific Championships .
Phelps 's international titles and  record-breaking प्रदर्शन have अर्जित उसे the संसार  Swimmer of the Year Award seven times and American Swimmer of the Year Award nine times as well as the FINA Swimmer of the Year Award in 2012 .
His unprecedented Olympic success in 2008 earned Phelps Sports Illustrated magazine 's Sportsman of the Year  पुरस्कार  .
After the 2008 Summer Olympics ,   Phelps started the Michael Phelps Foundation , which focuses on growing the sport of swimming and promoting healthier lifestyles .
He expects to do further work with his foundation after the 2012 Olympics ,  जिससे he रै कहा होगा be  his last .
Lenovo Group Limited ( ) is a Chinese multinational computer hardware  और इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स कम्पनी साथ इसके मुख्यालय  in Beijing , China and Morrisville , North Carolina and its registered office in Hong Kong , China .
Its products include personal computers , tablet computers , mobile phones , workstations , servers , electronic storage  डिवाइस , it प्रबन्धन  software and smart televisions .
Lenovo is the world 's  second-largest  PC vendor by 2012 unit sales .
It markets the ThinkPad line  of कोपी कंप्यूटर और  the ThinkCentre line of desktops .
Lenovo has operations in more than 60 countries and sells its  उत्पाद in around  160 countries .
Lenovo was founded in Beijing in 1984 and  incorporated  in Hong Kong in 1988 under its previous name , Legend .
Lenovo is listed on the Hong Kong Stock  एक्सचेंज और  is a constituent of the Hang Seng China-Affiliated Corporations Index .
Slug is a common  नाम लिये  an apparently shell-less terrestrial gastropod mollusk .
The word `` slug ''   is also often used as part of the common name of any gastropod mollusc that has no shell , has a very reduced shell , or has only a small internal shell .
( This is in contrast to the common name `` snail `` , which is applied to gastropods that have a coiled shell that is large enough that the soft parts of the  एनिमल can retract fully into  it . )
Slugs exist on land and in the sea , and there is even one  genus of freshwater  slugs , Acochlidium .
The unadorned word `` slug '' is  however लागू primarily to जमीन slugs , whereas slugs इससे the  sea or from freshwater are usually referred to as `` sea slugs `` and `` freshwater slugs '' .
Land gastropods with a shell that is not quite vestigial , but is too  छोटी to retract into ( जैसे  many in the family Urocyclidae ) , are known as semislugs .
The various taxonomic  परिवारों of slugs  form part of several quite different evolutionary lineages which also include snails .
Thus , for example , the various families of land slugs are not very closely related to one another ,  despite a सतही समानता  in the overall body form .
The shell-less  कंडीशन रै arisen अनेक  times independently during the evolutionary past , and thus the category `` slug '' is emphatically a polyphyletic one .
Slugs , like  सब अन्य  gastropods , undergo torsion ( a 180° twisting of the internal organs ) during development .
Internally , slug anatomy clearly shows the effects of this rotation , but externally the bodies of land slugs appear to be more or less symmetrical , except for the positioning of  the pneumostome , जिससे is on एक पक्ष of the एनिमल  , normally the right hand side .
The soft , slimy bodies of slugs are prone to desiccation , so land-living slugs are confined to moist environments and must retreat to damp  छुपाना स्थान जब the  weather is dry .
The subsequent information in this  आलेख applies to जमीन  slugs .
is a Latin word that means `` thus '' or , in writing , `` it was thus in  the सोर्स  material '' .
Sic may  भी refer  to:
Sic , Cluj , a  कम्यून  in Romania
SIC , the  क्षेत्रीय कोड  for Sicily
Sic ( noise artist ) , styled as [ sic ] , stage name of Jennifer Morris , a Canadian  रव कलाकार
Sic ( band  ) is a  modern Hardcore/Thrash metal band from Torshavn , the capital of the Faroe Islands
`` ( sic ) '' , a song by  अमरीकी बैंड  Slipknot on the album Slipknot
SIC , the  आरंभिक  of Marco Simoncelli .
SIC as an acronym  may  stand for:
sic , सिलिकॉन  carbide , a semiconducting material , also used to make metalworking tools
sic  ( cyclecar ) ( Società Italiana Cyclecars )
Standard Industrial  वर्गीकरण  , a 20th-century U.S. system for classifying industries
अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Standard Industrial Classification a UN system for economic activities
शेटलैंड  Islands Council
the Swiss  interbank  Clearing system
San Isidro Club ,  an अर्जेंटाइन  rugby union club
Standing Interpretation Committee , a committee dedicated to the interpretation of international  हिसाब  standards IFRS
Schwarz information criterion  in the फ़ील्ड  of statistics
Second-in-command in the field   of aviation
Sistema Interconectado  सेंट्रल  power grid in Chile
Sociedade Independente de Comunicação ( SIC ) , a  टेलीविज़न  channel in Portugal
Sea Isle City , New Jersey , a coastal town in  the संयुक्त राज्य
Segmented Integer Counter mode , a mode of operation in  क्रिप्टोग्राफी
Sepang International Circuit , a high-end  racetrack कि होस्ट  the Malaysian round of Formula 1
Shanghai International Circuit , a motor racing venue in  शंघाई  , China
Simplified instructional computer , a  काल्पनिक  computer used in systems programming
SIC ( Sons Idées Couleurs ) , an early twentieth-century art magazine produced by  फ्रेंच लेखक  Pierre Albert-Birot
Southeastern Illinois College , a two year Junior College in Harrisburg ,  इलिनोइस , संयुक्त  States
Specific  आगमनात्मक क्षमता , abbreviated  to SIC , which is more commonly known as the relative permittivity or the dielectric constant
St Ignatius ' College , Riverview , a Jesuit school  in सिडनी  , Australia
Imperial   Standard of Napoleon I
Napoleon Bonaparte ( , ; 15 August 1769 – 5 May 1821 ) was a French military and political leader who rose to prominence  दौरान the latter चरण of the फ्रेंच  Revolution and its associated wars in Europe .
As  नेपोलियन  I , he was Emperor of the French from 1804 to 1815 .
His legal reform , the Napoleonic Code , has been a major influence on many civil law jurisdictions  विश्वव्यापी  , but he is best remembered for his role in the wars led against France by a series of coalitions , the so-called Napoleonic Wars .
He established  आधिपत्य over सबसे of महाद्वीपीय  Europe and sought to spread the ideals of the French Revolution , while consolidating an imperial monarchy which restored aspects of the deposed Ancien Régime .
Due to his success in these wars , often against numerically superior  दुश्मनों , he is generally  regarded as one of the greatest military commanders of all time , and his campaigns are studied at military academies worldwide .
नेपोलियन थी born at ajaccio in corsica in a परिवार of प्रतिष्ठित इतालवी ancestry जिससे था settled corsica in the 16th सदी .
He trained  as an तोपखाने  officer in mainland France .
He rose to prominence under the French First Republic and led successful campaigns against the First and  दूसरी coalitions  arrayed against France .
He led a  कामयाब  invasion of the Italian peninsula .
In 1799 , he staged a coup d'état and installed himself as First  कौंसुल ; पाँच सालो बाद  the French Senate proclaimed him emperor , following a plebiscite in his favour .
In the first decade of the 19th century , the French Empire under Napoleon engaged in a series of conflicts—the  napoleonic युद्धों —that शामिल  every major European power .
After a streak of victories , France secured a dominant position in continental Europe , and Napoleon maintained the French sphere  of influence through the गठन  of extensive alliances and the appointment of friends and family members to rule other European countries as French client states .
The Peninsular War and 1812 French invasion of Russia  चिह्नित  turning points in Napoleon 's fortunes .
His Grande Armée was badly damaged in the campaign and never  fully बरामद  .
In 1813 , the Sixth Coalition defeated his forces at Leipzig ; the following year the Coalition invaded France , forced Napoleon to abdicate and exiled  उसे to the  island of Elba .
Less than a year later , he  फरार एल्बा और लौटे to शक्ति  , but was defeated at the Battle of Waterloo in June 1815 .
Napoleon  खर्च the पिछला छह सालो of  his life in confinement by the British on the island of Saint Helena .
An autopsy concluded he died of stomach cancer , but there has been some debate about the cause of his death , as some  विद्वानों have speculated कि  he was a victim of arsenic poisoning .
This is a chronological  लिस्टिंग of the संयुक्त राज्य  Senators from Pennsylvania .
United States Senators  हैं  popularly elected , for a six-year term , beginning January 3 .
Elections are held the first Tuesday  बाद नवम्बर 1  .
Before 1914 , they were chosen by the Pennsylvania General Assembly , and before 1935 , their terms  began  March 4 .
The South Africa national rugby union team ( known as the  springboks ) represents  South Africa in rugby union .
They  compete  in the annual Rugby Championship , along with southern-hemisphere counterparts Argentina , Australia and New Zealand .
They have won this  चैंपियनशिप on तीन अवसरों  in sixteen years .
They are currently ranked second in the world by the International  रग्बी फलक , और यहूद नामित  2008 World Team of the Year at the Laureus World Sports Awards .
Although South Africa was instrumental in the creation of the Rugby World Cup competition , the  springboks किया नहीं  compete in the first two World Cups in 1987 and 1991 because of anti-apartheid sporting boycotts of South Africa .
The team made  इसके संसार कप डेब्यू  in 1995 , when the newly democratic South Africa hosted the tournament .
The Springboks then defeated the All Blacks 15–12 in the final , which is now  remembered as एक of the महानतम पल  in South Africa 's sporting history , and a watershed moment in the post-Apartheid nation-building process .
South Africa regained  उनके शीर्षक as champions  12 years later , when they defeated England 15–6 in the 2007 final .
As a result of the  2007 संसार कप टूर्नामेंट the springboks  were promoted to first place in the IRB World Rankings , a position they held until July the following year when New Zealand regained the top spot .
The Springboks play in green and gold  jerseys , और उनके  emblems are the Springbok and the Protea .
The side has been playing international rugby since  1891 , जब  a British Isles side toured the nation , playing South Africa in their first Test on 30 July .
South  अफ़्रीकी थी coached  by Jake White , who led the Boks to the 2007 World Cup title , announcing his resignation effectively from the end of 2007 .
His replacement 's ( Peter de Villiers ) contract expired in 2011 , following a 11–9  शिकस्त to ऑस्ट्रेलिया in  the Rugby World Cup quarter-final , who then stated he would not be signing a new deal .
The previous captain was John Smit , who before he retired  in 2011 निभाई वेश्या लिये  most of his career , although he has also been a prop , mainly in 2008 and 2009 .
Due to Smit  होने अनुपलब्ध लिये the नवम्बर  2010 Tests after surgery , lock Victor Matfield took Smit 's place as captain for that tour .
The current captain  is जां  de Villiers .
The Battle of Gettysburg ( , with an sound ) , was fought July 1–3 , 1863 , in and around  the कस्बा of  Gettysburg , Pennsylvania .
It was the battle with the largest  क्रमांक of  casualties in the American Civil War and is often described as the war 's turning point .
Union Maj. Gen. George Gordon Meade  's फौज of the potomac  defeated attacks by Confederate Gen. Robert E. Lee 's Army of Northern Virginia , ending Lee 's invasion of the North .
After his success at Chancellorsville in Virginia in   May 1863 , Lee led his army through the Shenandoah Valley to begin his second invasion of the North—the Gettysburg Campaign .
With his army in high spirits , Lee intended to shift the focus of the summer campaign from war-ravaged northern Virginia and hoped to influence Northern politicians to give up their  अभियोजन of the युद्ध by penetrating as दूर  as Harrisburg , Pennsylvania , or even Philadelphia .
Prodded by President Abraham Lincoln , Maj. Gen. Joseph Hooker moved his army in pursuit , but was relieved   just three days before the battle and replaced by Meade .
Elements of the two armies initially  collided  at Gettysburg on July 1 , 1863 , as Lee urgently concentrated his forces there , his objective being to engage the Union army and destroy it .
Low ridges to the northwest of town were defended initially by a Union cavalry division under  ब्रिगेडियर . gen.  John Buford , and soon reinforced with two corps of Union infantry .
However , two large Confederate corps assaulted them from the northwest and north , collapsing the hastily developed Union lines , sending the defenders retreating  through the गलियों of कस्बा to the  hills just to the south .
On the second day of battle , most of  दोनो  armies had assembled .
the संघ  line was laid out in a defensive formation resembling a fishhook .
In the late afternoon of July 2 , Lee launched a heavy assault on the Union left  पार्श्व , और fierce लड़ raged at  Little Round Top , the Wheatfield , Devil 's Den , and the Peach Orchard .
On the Union right , demonstrations escalated into full-scale assaults on Culp 's  हिल और कब्रिस्तान  Hill .
All  आरपार the रणभूमि  , despite significant losses , the Union defenders held their lines .
On the third day of battle , July 3 , fighting resumed on Culp 's Hill , and cavalry battles raged to the east and south , but the main event was a dramatic infantry assault by 12,500 Confederates  विरूद्ध the बीच of the संघ  line on Cemetery Ridge , known as Pickett 's Charge .
the चार्ज  was repulsed by Union rifle and artillery fire , at great losses to the Confederate army .
Lee  led उसके फौज  on a torturous retreat back to Virginia .
Between 46,000 and 51,000 soldiers from both armies were casualties in the three-day  बैटल .
That November , President Lincoln used the dedication ceremony for the Gettysburg National Cemetery to honor the fallen Union  सैनिको और redefine  the purpose of the war in his historic Gettysburg Address .
An academic discipline ,  or फ़ील्ड of पढ़ाई , is  a branch of knowledge that is taught and researched at the college or university level .
Disciplines are defined ( in part ) , and recognized by  the अकादमिक  journals in which research is published , and the learned societies and academic departments or faculties to which their practitioners belong .
However , there exists no formal criteria for when educational programs and scholarly journals form an  अकादमिक अनुशासन  .
A huge difference exists between , on the one hand , well established disciplines that exist in almost all universities all over the world , have  a long  history , and have a well established set of journals and conferences , and , on the other hand , suggestions for new fields supported only by few universities and publications .
फ़ील्ड of पढ़ाई प्रायः have अनेक sub-disciplines or शाखाओं , और the distinguishing लाइनों between ये हैं प्रायः दोनो मनमानी  and ambiguous .
PHP is a server-side scripting language designed  लिये वेब विकास  but also used as a general-purpose programming language .
PHP is now  संस्थापित on अधिक than  244 million websites and 2.1 million web servers .
Originally created by Rasmus Lerdorf in 1995  , the सन्दर्भ  implementation of PHP is now produced by The PHP Group .
While PHP originally stood for Personal Home Page , it now stands for PHP :  हाइपरटेक्स्ट  Preprocessor , a recursive acronym .
PHP code is interpreted by a web server with a PHP processor module which generates the resulting web page : PHP commands can be embedded directly into an HTML source document rather than calling an  बाह्य संचिका to  process data .
It has also evolved to  शामिल a command-line  interface capability and can be used in standalone graphical applications .
PHP is free software  released अंतर्गत the पीएचपी  License , which is incompatible with the GNU General Public License ( GPL ) due to restrictions on the usage of the term PHP .
PHP can be deployed on  most web  servers and also as a standalone shell on almost every operating system and platform , free of charge .
John Fitzgerald `` Jack '' Kennedy (  may 29 , 1917 – नवम्बर 22 , 1963 ) , प्रायः  referred to by his initials JFK , was the 35th President of the United States , serving from 1961 until his death in 1963 .
बाद सैन्य सेवा as कमांडर  of the Motor Torpedo Boats PT-109 and PT-59 during World War II in the South Pacific , Kennedy represented Massachusetts ' 11th congressional district in the U.S. House of Representatives from 1947 to 1953 as a Democrat .
Thereafter , he served in the  u.S. सीनेट  from 1953 until 1960 .
Kennedy defeated Vice President and Republican  प्रत्याशी रिचर्ड निक्सन  in the 1960 U.S. presidential election .
At 43 years of age , he is the youngest to have been elected to the office , the second-youngest President ( after Theodore  रूज़वेल्ट ) , और the  first person born in the 20th century to serve as president .
A Catholic , Kennedy is the only non- Protestant president , and is the only president to have  जीती  a Pulitzer Prize .
Events during his presidency included the Bay of Pigs Invasion , the Cuban Missile Crisis , the building of the Berlin Wall , the Space Race , the African-American Civil Rights  गति , और जल्दी चरण of the वियतनाम युद्ध  .
Therein , Kennedy increased the number  of सैन्य advisers , खास आपरेशन शक्तियां , और helicopters  in an effort to curb the spread of communism in South East Asia .
The Kennedy administration  अपनाया the नीति of  the Strategic Hamlet Program which was implemented by the South Vietnamese government .
It involved certain forced relocation , village internment , and  पृथक्करण of ग्रामीण दक्षिण  Vietnamese from the northern and southern communist insurgents .
कैनेडी  was assassinated on November 22 , 1963 in Dallas , Texas .
Lee Harvey Oswald was charged with the crime , but he was shot and  मारे by जोकर  Ruby two days later , before a trial could take place .
The FBI and the Warren  आयोग  officially concluded that Oswald was the lone assassin .
However , the United States House Select Committee on  assassinations ( hsca ) concluded कि  those investigations were flawed and that Kennedy was probably assassinated as the result of a conspiracy .
However , ABC News in  उनके छानबीन , the  Kennedy Assassination : Beyond Conspiracy , confirmed the findings of the Warren Commission ; having concluded Oswald acted alone .
Kennedy 's controversial Department of Defense TFX fighter bomber  कार्यक्रम led  to a Congressional investigation that lasted from 1963 to 1970 .
चूंकि  the 1960s information concerning Kennedy 's private life has come to light .
Details of  कैनेडी 's स्वास्थ्य  problems in which he struggled have become better known , especially since the 1990s .
Although initially kept secret from the general public , reports of Kennedy 's philandering have  garnered much  press .
Kennedy ranks highly in public opinion ratings of U.S.  राष्ट्रपतियों  .
`` Stand by Me '' is a song originally performed by Ben E. King and written by King , Jerry Leiber , and Mike Stoller ,  प्रेरित by the आध्यात्मिक  `` Lord Stand by Me , '' plus two lines rooted in Psalms 46:2–3 .
There have been over 400 recorded versions  of the सोंग .
A political cartoon from an 1894 Puck magazine by illustrator S.D . Ehrhart ,  shows a फार्म स्त्री labeled  `` Democratic Party '' sheltering from a tornado of political change .
A metaphor is a figure of speech  कि  describes a subject by asserting that it is , on some point of comparison , the same as another otherwise unrelated object .
Metaphor is a type of analogy and is closely related to other rhetorical figures of speech that achieve their effects via  संघ , तुलना or प्रतिरूप  including allegory , hyperbole , and simile .
In simpler terms , a metaphor compares  दो वस्तुएँ  or things without using the words `` like '' or `` as '' .
One of the most prominent examples of a metaphor in English literature is the All the  संसार 's a स्टेज monologue इससे as तुम  Like It :
All the world 's a  स्टैगe,
And all the men and women  merely खिलाड़ी  ;
वे have उनके exits  and their entrances ; — William Shakespeare , As You Like It , 2/7
This quote is a metaphor because the world is not  वस्तुतः a स्टेज  .
By figuratively asserting that the world is a stage ,  शेक्सपियर उपयोग the अंक of तुलना between the संसार और  a stage to convey an understanding about the mechanics of the world and the lives of the people within it .
Mount Fuji , from the Thirty-six Views of Mount  फुजी , रंग woodcut  by Katsushika Hokusai
Rembrandt van Rijn ,  self-portrait  , etching , c.1630
Francisco Goya , There is No One To Help Them ,  आपदाओं of युद्ध श्रेणी  , aquatint c.1810
Felix Vallotton , La raison probante ( The Cogent Reason ) , woodcut from the  श्रेणी intimités  , 1898
Printmaking is the process of  बनाना artworks  by printing , normally on paper .
Printmaking normally covers only the process of creating prints with an element of originality  , बल्कि than बस होने a फ़ोटोग्राफ़िक  reproduction of a painting .
मगर in the मामला of monotyping  , the process is capable of producing multiples of the same piece , which is called a print .
Each  छपाई उत्पादित  is not considered a `` copy '' but rather is considered an `` original '' .
This is because typically each print varies to an extent due to variables intrinsic to the printmaking process , and also because  the imagery of a छपाई is typically नहीं बस a जनन of another कार्य  but rather is often a unique image designed from the start to be expressed in a particular printmaking technique .
A print may be known  as an छाप  .
Printmaking ( other than monotyping ) is not chosen  तभी लिये इसके क्षमता to उपज अनेक  impressions , but rather for the unique qualities that each of the printmaking processes lends itself to .
Prints are created by transferring ink from a  मेट्रिक्स  or through a prepared screen to a sheet of paper or other material .
Common types of matrices include : metal plates , usually copper or zinc , or polymer plates for engraving or etching ; stone , aluminum , or polymer for lithography ; blocks of wood for woodcuts and wood  engravings ; और linoleum लिये  linocuts .
Screens made of silk or synthetic fabrics   are used for the screenprinting process .
Other types of matrix substrates and related   processes are discussed below .
Multiple impressions  मुद्रित  from the same matrix form an edition .
Since the late 19th century , artists have generally signed individual  impressions इससे an संस्करण और प्रायः  number the impressions to form a limited edition .
Prints may also be printed in book form , such as illustrated books  or कलाकार  's books .
Il Divo is an  English  multinational operatic pop vocal group created by music manager , executive , and reality TV star Simon Cowell .
Formed in the United Kingdom , they are also  हस्ताक्षरित to cowell 's रिकार्ड  label , Syco Music .
Il Divo is a group of four male singers : French pop singer Sébastien Izambard , Spanish baritone Carlos Marín , American  टेनर दाउद मिलर , और  Swiss tenor Urs Bühler .
To date ,  वे have  sold more than 26 million albums worldwide .
Su-15 , one of the principal Soviet Air   Defence interceptors in the 1970s and 1980s
An  interceptor वायुयान ( or बस interceptor ) is a प्रकार of सेनानी वायुयान designed specifically to prevent मिशन of दुश्मन वायुयान , विशेषकर बमवर्षक और reconnaissance वायुयान , और नष्ट उन्हें , relying प्रायः on ग्रेट गति और शक्तिशाली armament .
Being used since the First World War , after the late 1960s , interceptors became less important due to shifting from bombers to intercontinental ballistic  मिसाइलें ( icbms ) लिये नाभिकीय warfare  .
A Vietnamese  अमरीकी ( ) is  an American of Vietnamese descent .
They  मेक up परिचय हाफ of सब  overseas Vietnamese ( Người Việt Hải Ngoại ) and are the fourth-largest Asian American group .
Mass Vietnamese immigration to the United States  प्रारंभ  after 1975 , after the end of the Vietnam War .
Early immigrants were   refugee boat people fleeing persecution or poverty .
Forced to flee from their homeland and often thrust into poor urban neighborhoods , these  newcomers have nevertheless प्रबंधित to स्थापित दमदार समुदायों  in a short amount of time .
More than sixty percent of Vietnamese Americans reside in the states of California , Texas , Washington , Florida ,  और वर्जिनिया  .
Front page of the U.S. Armed Forces newspaper ,  सितारों और  Stripes , 2 May 1945
Adolf Hitler committed suicide by gunshot on 30 April 1945  in उसके führerbunker in  Berlin .
His  बीवी एवा ( née  Braun ) committed suicide with him by ingesting cyanide .
That  दोपहर , in accordance साथ हिटलर 's prior निर्देश  , their remains were carried up the stairs through the bunker 's emergency exit , doused in petrol and set alight in the Reich Chancellery garden outside the bunker .
The Soviet archives record that their burnt remains were recovered and interred in successive locations until 1970 when they were again  exhumed , cremated और the राख बिखरे .
Accounts differ as to the cause of death ; one that he died by poison only and another that he died by a  self-inflicted gunshot , जबकि biting  down on a cyanide capsule .
Contemporary historians have rejected these accounts as being either Soviet  प्रचार or an attempted सुलह in अनुक्रम  to reconcile the different conclusions .
One  eye-witness  recorded that the body showed signs of having been shot through the mouth , but this has been proven unlikely .
There is also controversy regarding the authenticity of skull  और जबड़ों fragments जिससे यहूद  recovered .
In 2009 , DNA tests were performed  on a कपाल सोवियत officials  had long believed to be Hitler 's .
the  tests revealed that the skull was actually that of a woman less than 40 years old .
स्थान  of Missouri
The alcohol laws of Missouri are among  the  least restrictive and most lax and permissive in the United States .
Missouri is known throughout the Midwest for its largely laissez-faire approach to alcohol regulation , in  शार्प कंट्रास्ट to the बहुत सख्त दारू  laws of some of its neighbors , like Kansas and Oklahoma .
Necrotizing fasciitis ( or ) or NF , commonly known as flesh-eating disease or flesh-eating bacteria syndrome , is a rare infection of the deeper layers of skin and subcutaneous  ऊतकों , easily spreading  across the fascial plane within the subcutaneous tissue .
necrotizing fasciitis is जल्दी progressing , having वृहद रिस्क of विकासशील in the immunocompromised due to शर्तें जैसे मधुमेह , कर्कट , इत्यादि  .
It is a severe disease of sudden onset and is usually treated immediately with high doses of intravenous  एंटीबायोटिक  .
Type I describes a polymicrobial infection , whereas Type II describes a  monomicrobial  infection .
Many types of bacteria can cause necrotizing fasciitis ( e.g. , Group A streptococcus ( Streptococcus pyogenes ) , Staphylococcus aureus , Clostridium perfringens , Bacteroides fragilis ,  aeromonas  hydrophila ) .
Such infections are more  संभावित to occur  in people with compromised immune systems .
Historically , Group A streptococcus made up most cases of Type II  infections  .
However , since as  early  as 2001 , another serious form of monomicrobial necrotizing fasciitis has been observed with increasing frequency , caused by methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus ( MRSA ) .
Some published case reports have implied a possible link between use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and NF , though the evidence  of the कड़ी थी कहा to be कमजोर क्युकी  of a small number of case patients and it was unclear whether the drugs just masked the symptoms of a secondary infection or were a cause per se .
World War II ( WWII or WW2 ) , also known as the Second World War ,  थी a वैश्विक युद्ध  that lasted from 1939 to 1945 .
it शामिल the विशाल बहुमत of the संसार 's राष्ट्र —including सब of the ग्रेट शक्तियां —eventually forming दो opposing सैन्य alliances : the allies और the अक्ष  .
It was the most widespread war in history , with more than 100  लाख लोगों सेवारत in सैन्य  units from over 30 different countries .
In a state of `` total war `` , the major participants   placed their entire economic , industrial , and scientific capabilities at the service of the war effort , erasing the distinction between civilian and military resources .
Marked by mass deaths of civilians , including the  holocaust और the तभी उपयोग of नाभिकीय  weapons in warfare , it resulted in 50 million to over 75 million fatalities .
These deaths make World War  ii by दूर  the deadliest conflict in human history .
The Empire of Japan aimed to dominate East Asia and was already at war with the Republic of China in 1937 , but the world war  is generally कहा to have begun on 1 सितंबर 1939 साथ the आक्रमण  of Poland by Germany and subsequent declarations of war on Germany by France and Britain .
From late 1939 to  जल्दी 1941  , in a series of campaigns and treaties , Germany formed the Axis alliance with Italy , conquering or subduing much of continental Europe .
Following the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact , Germany and the Soviet Union partitioned and  annexed territories  between themselves of their European neighbours , including Poland .
The United Kingdom and the other  सदस्यों of the अंग्रेजों राष्ट्रमंडल  were the only major Allied forces continuing the fight against the Axis , with battles taking place in North Africa as well as the long-running Battle of the Atlantic .
In June 1941 , the European Axis launched  an आक्रमण of the सोवियत  Union , giving a start to the largest land theatre of war in history , which tied down the major part of the Axis ' military forces for the rest of the war .
In December 1941 , Japan joined the Axis , attacked the United  राज्य और यूरोपीय territories  in the Pacific Ocean , and quickly conquered much of the Western Pacific .
The Axis advance was stopped in 1942 , after Japan lost a series of naval battles and  यूरोपीय अक्ष  troops were defeated in North Africa and , decisively , at Stalingrad .
In 1943 , with  a श्रेणी of जर्मनी defeats in पूर्वी यूरोपीय  , the Allied invasion of Italy , and American victories in the Pacific , the Axis lost the initiative and undertook strategic retreat on all fronts .
In 1944 , the Western Allies invaded France , while  the सोवियत संघ regained सब of  its territorial losses and invaded Germany and its allies .
During 1944 and  1945 the संयुक्त  States defeated the Japanese Navy and captured key Western Pacific islands .
The war in Europe ended with the capture of Berlin by  सोवियत  and Polish troops and the subsequent German unconditional surrender on 8 May 1945 .
Following the Potsdam Declaration by the Allies on 26 July 1945 , the United States dropped atomic bombs on the Japanese cities  of हिरोशिमा on 6 अगस्त , और  Nagasaki on 9 August .
With an invasion of the Japanese archipelago imminent , and the Soviet Union having declared war on Japan by invading Manchuria , Japan surrendered on 15 August  1945 , समाप्ति the युद्ध in एशिया और cementing the कुल  victory of the Allies over the Axis .
संसार युद्ध ii  altered the political alignment and social structure of the world .
the  United Nations ( UN ) was established to foster international cooperation and prevent future conflicts .
The great powers that were the victors of the war—the United States , the Soviet Union , China , the United Kingdom  , and  France—became the permanent members of the United Nations Security Council .
The Soviet Union and the United States emerged as rival superpowers , setting the stage  लिये the  Cold War , which lasted for the next 46 years .
meanwhile , the  influence of European great powers started to decline , while the decolonisation of Asia and Africa began .
Most countries  जिनकी  industries had been damaged moved towards economic recovery .
Political integration , especially in Europe , emerged as an effort to stabilise postwar relations and fight more  effectively in  the Cold War .
A  सीमित  liability company ( LLC ) is a flexible form of enterprise that blends elements of partnership and corporate structures .
Note than an LLC is not a  निगम , और कॉलिंग an  LLC a corporation is technically incorrect .
An LLC is a legal form of company that provides limited liability to its owners in the  विशाल बहुमत of संयुक्त  States jurisdictions .
llcs do  not need to be organized for profit .
Five  k-cups
The inside of a used K-Cup , with the top foil and the  प्रयुक्त कॉफी grounds removed  .
इस shows  the filter inside the K-Cup .
K-Cup portion packs are used with Keurig or other single cup  brewing प्रणालियों to काढ़ा a कप  of coffee , tea , or hot chocolate .
Each K-Cup is a plastic container with a  कॉफी फिल्टर  inside .
Ground  कॉफी सेम  are packed in the K-Cup and sealed air-tight with a combination plastic and foil lid .
When the K-Cup is placed in a Keurig brewer , the brewer punctures the foil lid and the bottom of  the K-Cup and  forces hot water under pressure through the K-Cup and into a mug .
Keurig licenses its K-Cup technology to coffee roasters and tea makers such as Green Mountain Coffee Roasters , Diedrich/ Gloria  जीन्स , टिमोथी 's संसार कॉफी  , Van Houtte , Caribou Coffee , Celestial Seasonings , Bigelow Tea Company , Twinings , Tully 's , Coffee People and Newman 's Own .
Keurig 's patents on  the असली k-cup डिज़ाइन  expired in September 2012 .
Keurig holds at least one additional , still-active US patent and another patent application , detailing  सुधार  that have subsequently been incorporated in their K-Cup design .
Electa Pocket Chronograph ( ca .  1890s ) manufactured by the gallet  Watch Company in La Chaux-de-Fonds , Switzerland .
Gallet  multichron astronomic ( ca . 1959 ) —complex  mechanical chronograph with 12 hour recoding capabilities , automatic day , date , month , and moon phase display
A modern Seiko quartz  wristwatch using the chronograph  function ( movement 7T92 ) .
Citizen Atessa  eco-drive  ATV53-3023 analog-digital chronograph with 4 area Radio Controlled reception ( North America , Europe , China , Japan ) .
A chronograph is a specific type of  देखें  that is used as a stopwatch combined with a display watch .
A basic chronograph has an independent sweep second hand ; it can be started , stopped  , और लौटे to शून्य by successive  pressure on the stem .
Louis Moinet invented the  chronograph  in 1816
Conventional PCI ( PCI is an initialism formed from Peripheral  घटक  Interconnect , part of the PCI Local Bus standard and often shortened to just PCI ) is a local computer bus for attaching hardware devices in a computer .
The PCI bus supports the functions found on a processor bus , but in a standardized format that is independent of any particular processor   .
Devices connected to the bus appear to the processor to be connected directly  to the  processor bus , and are assigned addresses in the processor 's address space .
Attached  डिवाइस can लो either the रूप of an एकीकृत सर्किट  fitted onto the motherboard itself , called a planar device in the PCI specification , or an expansion card that fits into a slot .
The PCI Local Bus was first implemented in IBM PC compatibles , where it displaced the combination of ISA plus one VESA Local Bus as the bus  विन्यास  .
It has subsequently been  अपनाया लिये अन्य  computer types .
PCI and PCI-X are being replaced by PCI Express , but , most  motherboards हैं स्टिल बना  with one or more PCI slots , which are sufficient for many uses .
The PCI  specification कवर the शारीरिक आकार of  the bus ( including the size and spacing of the circuit board edge electrical contacts ) , electrical characteristics , bus timing , and protocols .
The  specification can be खरीदा  from the PCI Special Interest Group ( PCI-SIG ) .
Typical PCI cards used in  pcs शामिल : संजाल ताश , ध्वनि  cards , modems , extra ports such as USB or serial , TV tuner cards and disk controllers .
PCI video cards replaced ISA and VESA cards , until  growing bandwidth  requirements outgrew the capabilities of PCI ; the preferred interface for video cards became AGP , and then PCI Express .
PCI video cards remain  उपलब्धियाँ  for use with old PCs without AGP or PCI Express slots .
Many devices previously provided on PCI expansion cards are now  commonly एकीकृत onto motherboards or उपलब्धियाँ  in universal serial bus and PCI Express versions .
Michael Whitaker Smith ( born October 7 , 1957 )  is an अमरीकी समकालीन ईसाई संगीतकार  , who has charted primarily in the contemporary Christian and occasionally in the mainstream charts .
His biggest success in mainstream music was in 1991 when `` Place in this World '' hit No . 6 on  the बिलबोर्ड  Hot 100 .
Smith is a three-time Grammy Award winner , and has earned 40  dove पुरस्कार  .
Over the course of his career , he sold more than 13 million albums and recorded 29 No . 1   Hit songs , fourteen gold albums , and five platinum albums .
Smith is an American Music Award recipient ; he was also named one of People magazine 's `` Most  Beautiful People  '' .
An American poster from the World War II -era that  थी प्रयुक्त to inform  people about what they should do if they suspect sabotage .
Sabotage is a deliberate  कार्रवाई aimed at weakening  another entity through subversion , obstruction , disruption , or destruction .
In a workplace  सेटिंग  , sabotage is the conscious withdrawal of efficiency generally directed at causing some change in workplace conditions .
One who engages in sabotage is a  saboteur  .
As  a नियम , saboteurs  try to conceal their identities because of the consequences of their actions .
For example , whereas an environmental pressure group might be happy to be identified with an act of sabotage , it would not want the individual identities of the perpetrators known   .
Patrick Henry College ( PHC ) is a private , independent college  साथ an धर्मान्तरण ईसाई  basis that focuses on teaching classical liberal arts and government , located in Purcellville , Virginia , United States .
Patrick Henry is known for  इसके रूढ़िवादी  evangelical Christian focus .
As of April 17 , 2007 , the college was accredited by the Transnational  संघ of ईसाई कॉलेजों  and Schools , a national faith-related accrediting organization recognized by the Department of Education and the Council for Higher Education Accreditation .
The school was founded with the help of the Home School Legal  रक्षा संघ , और अभी serves as  the headquarters for the organization , with which it is still closely connected .
The history of television comprises the work of numerous engineers and inventors in several  देशों over अनेक दशकों .
The earliest proposal was  in 1908  , in a paper by A . A. Campbell-Swinton and postulated the use of cathode rays .
The first practical  demonstrations  of television , however , were developed using electromechanical methods to scan , transmit , and reproduce an image .
As electronic camera and display tubes were perfected ,  electromechanical टेलीविज़न  gave way to all-electronic systems in nearly all applications .
L'Idéal Cinéma - Jacques Tati at Aniche opened November 23rd 1905 ; the oldest  still-active फिल्म  theater in the world
A  सिनेमा in  Australia
A typical multiplex ( AMC  सैर  16 in Woodland Hills , Los Angeles , U.S. )
A movie theater ( also called a cinema , movie  हाउस , फिल्मी हाउस , फिल्मी थिएटर or चित्र  house ) is a venue , usually a building , for viewing films .
Most but not all movie theaters are commercial operations  केटरिंग  to the general public , who attend by purchasing a ticket .
The movie is projected with a movie projector onto a large projection  स्क्रीन at the सामने  of the auditorium .
Most movie theaters are now equipped for digital cinema projection  , निकालना the need to बनाएँ और हस्तांतरण  a physical film print .
Southern California Norton Owner 's Club on California  राज्य रूट  41 , near Creston .
A motorcycle club is a group of individuals whose  प्राथमिक ब्याज और क्रियाएँ  involve motorcycles .
Lyme disease , Lyme borreliosis is an infectious disease caused by  at तनिक तीन प्रजाति of  bacteria belonging to the genus Borrelia .
Borrelia burgdorferi  sensu stricto  is the main cause of Lyme disease in North America , whereas Borrelia afzelii and Borrelia garinii cause most European cases .
The disease is named after the towns of  lyme और  Old Lyme , Connecticut , USA , where a number of cases were identified in 1975 .
Although Allen Steere realized that Lyme disease was a tick-borne disease in 1978 , the cause of the disease remained a mystery until 1981  ,  when B. burgdorferi was identified by Willy Burgdorfer .
Lyme disease is the  सबसे  common tick-borne disease in the Northern Hemisphere .
Borrelia is transmitted to humans by the   bite of infected ticks belonging to a few species of the genus Ixodes ( `` hard ticks '' ) .
Early   symptoms may include fever , headache , fatigue , depression , and a characteristic circular skin rash called erythema migrans ( EM ) .
Left  अनुपचारित , बाद लक्षण may  involve the joints , heart , and central nervous system .
in सबसे मामले , the संक्रमण और इसके लक्षण हैं eliminated by एंटीबायोटिक , विशेषकर if the बीमारी is treated जल्दी  .
Delayed or inadequate treatment can  सीसे to  more serious symptoms , which can be disabling and difficult to treat .
Penises of minke whales  on प्रदर्शक  at the Icelandic Phallological Museum
Penis (  बहुवचन penises or penes ) is  a general term for the organs with which male and hermaphrodite animals introduce sperm into receptive females during copulation .
Such organs occur in many animals , both vertebrate and invertebrate , but males do not bear a penis in every animal  प्रजाति , और in those  species in which the male does bear a so-called penis , the penes in the various species are not necessarily homologous .
For example , the penis of a mammal is at most analogous to  the शिश्न  of a male insect or barnacle .
The term penis applies to many reproductive intromittent organs , but not to all ; for example the intromittent organ of most cephalopoda is  the hectocotylus , a specialised भुजा , और पुरूष मकड़ियों उपयोग उनके pedipalps  .
In most species of animals in which there is an organ that might reasonably be described as a penis , it has no major function other than intromission , or at least conveying the sperm to the female , but in the placental mammals the penis bears the  distal भाग of the urethra , जिससे discharges दोनो  urine during urination and semen during copulation as the occasion requires .
Artists and repertoire ( A & R ) is the division of a record label or music  प्रकाशन कम्पनी कि is जिम्मेदार लिये  talent scouting and overseeing the artistic development of recording artists and/or songwriters .
It also acts as a liaison between artists and the record label or publishing company  ; प्रत्येक कार्यकलाप involving कलाकारों to the पाइंट  of album release is generally considered under the purview of , and responsibility of , A & R .
A furlong is a measure of distance in imperial units and U.S. customary units equal to one-eighth of a  मील , समतुल्य to 220  yards , 660 feet , 40 rods , or 10 chains .
The exact   value of the furlong varies slightly among English-speaking countries .
Five furlongs  हैं लगभग  1 kilometre ( 1.0058 km is a closer approximation ) .
Since the original definition of the metre was one-quarter of one ten-millionth of the circumference of the Earth ( along the great circle coincident with the meridian of  देशांतर गुजर through पेरिस ) , the  circumference of the Earth is about 40,000 km or about 200,000 furlongs .
CR2032 lithium  बटन  cell battery
Lithium 9 volt  ,  AA , & AAA sizes
Lithium  बैटरी हैं डिस्पोजेबल  ( primary ) batteries that have lithium metal or lithium compounds as an anode .
They stand apart from  अन्य बैटरी  in their high charge density ( long life ) and high cost per unit .
Depending on the design and chemical compounds used , lithium cells can produce voltages from 1.5 V ( comparable to a  zinc–carbon or क्षारीय बैटरी ) to परिचय 3.7 V.  Lithium batteries are widely used in products such as portable consumer electronic devices .
Raymond `` Ray ''  चार्ल्स  Jack LaMontagne ( ; born June 18 , 1973 ) is an American singer-songwriter .
LaMontagne has  released  four studio albums , Trouble , Till the Sun Turns Black , Gossip in the Grain and God Willin ' & the Creek Do n't Rise .
He was born in New Hampshire and was  प्रेरित to बनाएँ म्यूज़िक  after hearing an album by Stephen Stills .
Critics  have compared  LaMontagne 's music to that of The Band , Van Morrison , Nick Drake , and Tim Buckley .
He lives in Massachusetts  साथ  his wife and two children .
When the Wind Blows is a novel by James   Patterson .
It is the  precursor  to The Lake House and inspired the Maximum Ride series .
The novel is currently set to be adapted into a  फिल्म  .
The  पिट्सबर्ग स्टीलर्स  were founded in 1933 .
Over the course of the team 's history , the  टोली रै था अनेक  logos while wearing virtually the same uniforms over the years , with subtle changes made to give the uniforms an updated look .
The team colors , uniforms , and logo are  प्रायः  ranked as being among the best in the NFL .
Facebook on  the ad-tech  2010
Facebook is an online  सोशल नेटवर्किंग सेवा , जिनकी नाम तना इससे the colloquial  name for the book given to students at the start of the academic year by some university administrations in the United States to help students get to know each other .
It was founded in February 2004  by Mark  Zuckerberg with his college roommates and fellow Harvard University students Eduardo Saverin , Andrew McCollum , Dustin Moskovitz and Chris Hughes .
The website 's membership  was  initially limited by the founders to Harvard students , but was expanded to other colleges in the Boston area , the Ivy League , and Stanford University .
It gradually added support for students at  विभिन्न अन्य विश्वविद्यालयों पहले खोलने  to high school students , and eventually to anyone aged 13 and over .
Facebook now allows any users who declare themselves to be at least 13 years old to  become पंजीकृत उपयोक्ता of the  site .
Users must register before using the site , after which they may create a personal profile , add other users as friends , and exchange messages ,  सहित स्वचालित  notifications when they update their profile .
Additionally , users may join common-interest user groups ,  व्यवस्थित by कार्यस्थल , स्कूल or कॉलेज , or अन्य  characteristics , and categorize their friends into lists such as `` People From Work '' or `` Close Friends '' .
As of September 2012 , Facebook has over one billion  क्रियाशील  users .
According to a May 2011 Consumer Reports  सर्वेक्षण , वहीँ हैं 7.5 लाख children अंतर्गत  13 with accounts and 5 million under 10 , violating the site 's terms of service .
In May 2005 , Accel partners invested $ 12.7 million in  फेसबुक , और  Jim Breyer added $ 1 million of his own money to the pot .
a जनवरी 2009  Compete.com study ranked Facebook as the most used social networking service by worldwide monthly active users .
Entertainment Weekly included the site on its end-of-the-decade `` best-of '' list , saying , `` How on earth  किया we stalk हमारी  exes , remember our co-workers ' birthdays , bug our friends , and play a rousing game of Scrabulous before Facebook ? ''
Critics , such  as फेसबुक detox , राज्य कि फेसबुक रै  turned into a national obsession in the United States , resulting in vast amounts of time lost and encouraging narcissism .
Quantcast estimates Facebook has 138.9  लाख मासिक अद्वितीय u.S. विज़िटर  in May 2011 .
according to सोशल  Media Today , in April 2010 an estimated 41.6 % ( 129.5 million ) of the U.S. population had a Facebook account .
Nevertheless , Facebook 's  मार्केट  growth started to stall in some regions , with the site losing 7 million active users in the United States and Canada in May 2011 .
Facebook  आखिरकार दायर लिये an आरंभिक पब्लिक offering  on February 1 , 2012 , and was headquartered in Menlo Park , California .
Facebook Inc. began selling stock to the  पब्लिक और व्यापार  on the NASDAQ on May 18 , 2012 .
Erwin Johannes Eugen Rommel ( 15 November 1891 – 14 October  1944 ) , popularly ज्ञात as the  Desert Fox ( Wüstenfuchs , ) , was a German Field Marshal of World War II .
He earned the respect of both his own troops   and the enemies he fought .
ख़बरों  was a highly decorated officer in World War I and was awarded the Pour le Mérite for his exploits on the Italian front .
In World  युद्ध  II , he further distinguished himself as the commander of the 7th Panzer Division during the 1940 invasion of France .
His leadership of German and Italian forces in the North African campaign established him as one of the most able commanders of the war , and   earned him the appellation of the Desert Fox .
He is regarded as one of the most skilled  कमांडरों of मरुस्थल  warfare in the conflict .
He later commanded the   German forces opposing the Allied cross-channel invasion in Normandy .
His assignments never  took उसे to the  Eastern Front .
Rommel  is regarded  as having been a humane and professional officer .
His Afrika Korps was never accused of war crimes , and soldiers captured  दौरान उसके अफ़्रीकी अभियान  were reported to have been treated humanely .
Orders to  मार यहूदी  soldiers , civilians and captured commandos were ignored .
Late in   the war , Rommel was linked to the conspiracy to assassinate Adolf Hitler .
Since Rommel was a national hero , Hitler desired  to eliminate  him quietly .
He forced Rommel to commit suicide with a cyanide pill , in return for assurances that Rommel 's family  होता नहीं be persecuted following उसके मौत  .
Stained glass representation of the Holy Spirit as a dove  , c. 1660  .
The seven gifts of the Holy Spirit is an enumeration of seven spiritual gifts originating with patristic authors , later elaborated by five intellectual virtues  और चार अन्य समूह of नैतिक  characteristics .
They are : wisdom ,  समझना  , wonder and awe ( fear of the Lord ) , counsel , knowledge , fortitude , and piety ( reverence ) .
The Earth Day  ध्वज , the नवीनतम प्रस्ताव  of John McConnell for a flag of Earth Day
Earth Day is an annual event , celebrated on April 22 , on which events are  आयोजित विश्वव्यापी to  demonstrate support for environmental protection .
It was first celebrated in 1970 , and is now coordinated globally by the Earth Day Network , and  मनाये in अधिक  than 192 countries each year .
In 1969 at a UNESCO Conference in San  फ्रांसिस्को , the तिथि प्रस्तावित थी  March 21 , 1970 , the first day of spring in the northern hemisphere .
This day of nature 's equipoise was later sanctioned  in a उदघोषणा  signed by Secretary General U Thant at the United Nations .
a माह बाद a पृथक  Earth Day was founded by United States Senator Gaylord Nelson as an environmental teach-in first held on April 22 , 1970 .
Nelson was later awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom Award in  मान्यता  of his work .
While this April 22 Earth Day was focused on the United States , an organization launched by Denis Hayes , who was  the असली  national coordinator in 1970 , took it international in 1990 and organized events in 141 nations .
Numerous communities celebrate Earth Week , an entire week of activities focused on  पर्यावरणीय  issues .
Iodine is a chemical element with symbol I and  परमाणु  number 53 .
The name is from Greek ioeidēs , meaning violet or  जामुनी ,  due to the color of elemental iodine vapor .
Iodine and its compounds are primarily used in nutrition , and industrially in the production of acetic  एसिड और  certain polymers .
Iodine 's relatively high  परमाणु  number , low toxicity , and ease of attachment to organic compounds have made it a part of many X-ray contrast materials in modern medicine .
आयोडीन  has only one stable isotope .
A  क्रमांक of आयोडीन radioisotopes  are also used in medical applications .
Iodine is found on Earth mainly as the  अत्यधिक water-soluble  iodide ion , I− , which concentrates it in oceans and brine pools .
जैसे the अन्य हैलोजन्स , फ़्री आयोडीन occurs मुख्यतः as a diatomic अणु i2 , और तब तभी momentarily बाद होने oxidized इससे आयोडाइड by an oxidant जैसे फ़्री ऑक्सीजन  .
In the universe and on Earth  , आयोडीन 's  high atomic number makes it a relatively rare element .
however , इसके उपस्थिति in समंदर जल रै दिए it a भूमिका in जीवविज्ञान  .
It is the heaviest essential element utilized widely by  जीवन in biological कृत्यों ( तभी टंगस्टन  , employed in enzymes by a few species of bacteria , is heavier ) .
Iodine 's rarity in many  soils , due to  initial low abundance as a crust-element , and also leaching of soluble iodide by rainwater , has led to many deficiency problems in land animals and inland human populations .
Iodine deficiency affects about two billion people and is the  अग्रणी preventable कारण  of intellectual disabilities .
Iodine is required by higher animals , which use it to synthesize thyroid  हार्मोन  , which contain the element .
Because of this function , radioisotopes of iodine are concentrated in  the थायराइड  gland along with nonradioactive iodine .
If inhaled , the radioisotope iodine-131 , which has a high fission product yield , concentrates in the thyroid , but is easily remedied with potassium iodide   treatment .
Lobbying ( also lobby ) is the act of attempting to influence decisions made by officials in the government , most often legislators or members of  नियामक  agencies .
lobbying is किया by अनेक अलग प्रकार of लोगों  and organized groups , including individuals in the private sector , corporations , fellow legislators or government officials , or advocacy groups ( interest groups ) .
Lobbyists may be among a legislator 's constituencies , meaning a voter or  bloc  of voters within his or her electoral district , or not ; they may engage in lobbying as a business , or not .
Professional lobbyists are people whose business is trying to influence legislation on  निमित्त of a समूह  or individual who hires them .
Individuals and nonprofit organizations can also lobby as an act of volunteering or as a small part of their normal job ( for instance , a CEO meeting with a representative about a project important to his/her company , or an activist meeting with his/her legislator  in an  unpaid capacity ) .
सरकारें प्रायः  define and regulate organized group lobbying that has become influential .
The ethics and  नैतिकता  of lobbying are .
Lobbying is often spoken of with contempt , when the implication is that people with inordinate socioeconomic power are corrupting  the विधि ( टेढ़ी it दूर इससे निष्पक्षता )  in order to serve their own conflict of interest .
But another side of lobbying is making sure that others ' interests are duly defended against others ' corruption , or even simply  बनाना यकीनन कि  minority interests are fairly defended against mere tyranny of the majority .
For example , a medical association , or a trade association of health insurance companies , may lobby a legislature in order to counteract the influence of tobacco  कंपनियाँ , in जिससे मामला the lobbying होता be  viewed by most people as justified ( duly defending against others ' corruption ) .
the परेशानी in आरेखण उद्देश्य लाइनों between जिससे lobbyists हैं `` शुभ lobbyists '' और जिससे ones हैं `` ख़राब ones '' is compounded by the cleverness साथ जिससे lobbyists or उनके क्लाइंट can argue कि उनके अपना lobbying is of the ``  good '' kind .
At heart , the effort   to influence legislation is a power struggle .
As in other forms of power struggle , such as war or  विधि प्रवर्तन , motives दायरा इससे to  self-defense to fighting for justice , and the dividing line between predation and justice is subject to rationalization .
Sunshine of  अपना प्रेम  guitar riff
Cream  यहूद a 1960s अंग्रेजों  rock supergroup consisting of bassist/vocalist Jack Bruce , guitarist/vocalist Eric Clapton , and drummer Ginger Baker .
Their sound was characterised by a hybrid of blues rock , hard rock and  साइकेडेलिक  rock , combining the psychedelia-themed lyrics , Eric Clapton 's blues guitar playing and vocals , Jack Bruce 's voice and prominent bass playing and Ginger Baker 's jazz -influenced drumming .
The group 's third album  , पहियों of आग , थी the  world 's first platinum-selling double album .
Cream are widely regarded as being the world 's first  कामयाब  supergroup .
In their career , they sold over 15 million  एल्बम विश्वव्यापी  .
Cream 's music included songs based on traditional blues such as `` Crossroads `` and `` Spoonful `` , and modern blues such as `` Born Under  a ख़राब चिह्न `` , as खूब as अधिक  eccentric songs such as `` Strange Brew `` , `` Tales of Brave Ulysses `` and `` Toad `` .
Cream 's biggest hits were `` I Feel Free `` ( UK , number 11 ) , ``  सनशाइन of अपना प्रेम `` ( us ,  number 5 ) , `` White Room `` ( US , number 6 ) , `` Crossroads '' ( US , number 28 ) , and `` Badge `` ( UK , number 18 ) .
Cream made a significant impact on the popular music of the time , and ,  साथ साथ जिमि हेंड्रिक्स  , and Terry Kath of Chicago , popularised the use of the wah-wah pedal .
They provided a heavy yet technically proficient musical  theme  that foreshadowed and influenced the emergence of British bands such as The Jeff Beck Group in the late 1960s .
The  बैंड 's सजीव प्रदर्शन  influenced progressive rock acts such as Rush .
Cream were  inducted into the  Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 1993 .
They were   included in both Rolling Stone and VH1 's lists of the `` 100 Greatest Artists of All Time '' .
They were also ranked number 16 on VH1 's ``  100 महानतम  Artists of Hard Rock '' .
Hairspray is a 1988  कॉमेडी फिल्मी  written and directed by John Waters , and starring Ricki Lake , Sonny Bono , Debbie Harry , Michael St. Gerard , Shawn Thompson , Colleen Fitzpatrick , Jerry Stiller , and in his last film role , Divine .
Hairspray was a dramatic  प्रस्थान इससे waters ' पहले  works , with a much broader intended audience .
In fact , Hairsprays PG is the mildest rating a Waters film has received  ; सबसे of उसके पिछला  films were rated X by the MPAA .
Set in 1962 Baltimore , Maryland , the film revolves around self-proclaimed ``  pleasantly plump '' किशोरावस्था ट्रेसी turnblad as वो pursues स्टारडम  as a dancer on a local TV show and rallies against racial segregation .
Hairspray was only a  मॉडरेट कामयाबी upon इसके  initial theatrical release , earning a modest gross of $ 8 million .
However , it managed to attract a larger audience on home video  in the जल्दी 1990s और became  a cult classic .
Most  आलोचकों praised the फिल्मी  , although some were displeased with the overall campiness .
In 2002 , the film was adapted  into a ब्रॉडवे musical  of the same name , which won eight Tony Awards , including Best Musical in 2003 .
A second film version of Hairspray , an adaptation of the stage musical , was also released by New Line Cinema in 2007 , which included many  परिवर्तन of scripted वस्तुएं इससे  the original .
The film also ranks #  444 on साम्राज्य पत्रिका 's  2008 list of the 500 greatest movies of all time .
A Christian denomination is an identifiable religious body under a common name , structure , and doctrine within  christianity  .
Some groups included do not consider themselves a denomination ( e.g. , the Catholic Church considers itself the  एक सच्चा गिरिजाघर और the अपोस्टोलिक  See , and as pre-denominational ) .
Some groups viewed by non-adherents as denominational actively resist being called a denomination and do not have any  औपचारिक denominational ढांचा , प्राधिकार  , or record-keeping beyond the local congregation ; several groups within Restoration Movement fall into this category .
Some groups are large ( e.g . Catholics , Lutherans , Anglicans or Baptists ) , while others are just a few small churches , and in most cases the  सापेक्ष आकार  is not evident in this list .
Modern movements such as  Fundamentalist  Christianity , Pietism , Evangelicalism , Pentecostalism and the Holiness movement sometimes cross denominational lines , or in some cases create new denominations out of two or more continuing groups , ( as is the case for many United and uniting churches , for example ) .
Such  subtleties  and complexities are not clearly depicted here .
Major divisions  भीतर  Christianity .
Note : This is not a  पूरा सूची , लकिन aims to provide  a comprehensible overview of the diversity among denominations of Christianity .
As there are reported to be approximately 41,000 Christian denominations , many of which can not be verified to be significant , only those denominations with Wikipedia articles will be  सूचीबद्ध in अनुक्रम to ensure कि सब  entries on this list are notable and verifiable .
Between denominations , theologians , and comparative religionists there are  considerable मतभिन्नता परिचय  which groups can be properly called Christian , disagreements arising primarily from doctrinal differences between groups .
For the purpose of simplicity , this  सूची  is intended to reflect the self-understanding of each denomination .
Explanations of different opinions concerning their status as Christian denominations  can be  found at their respective articles .
There is no official recognition in most parts of the world for religious bodies , and there is no official clearinghouse which could  determine the औकात or respectability of धार्मिक  bodies .
Often there is considerable disagreement between various churches about whether other churches  चाहिए be labeled साथ pejorative शर्तें  such as `` cult '' , or about whether this or that group enjoys some measure of respectability .
Such considerations often vary from place to place , where one  धार्मिक समूह may आनंद बहुमत औकात  in one region , but be widely regarded as a `` dangerous cult '' in another part of the world .
Inclusion  on इस सूची  does not indicate any judgment about the size , importance , or character of a group or its members .
1804 map of `` Louisiana `` , edged on the west by the Rocky  kyu  .
The Louisiana Purchase ( `` Sale of Louisiana '' ) was the acquisition by the United States  of  America in 1803 of of France 's claim to the territory of Louisiana .
The U.S.  सशुल्क 50 लाख francs ( $ 11 ,250,000  ) plus cancellation of debts worth 18 million francs ( $ 3,750,000 ) , for a total sum of 15 million dollars ( less than 3 cents per acre ) for the Louisiana territory ( $ million in dollars , less than 42 cents per acre ) .
The Louisiana territory encompassed all or part  of 15  present U.S. states and two Canadian provinces .
The land purchased contained all of present-day Arkansas , Missouri , Iowa , Oklahoma , Kansas , and Nebraska ; parts of Minnesota that were west of the Mississippi River ; most of North Dakota ; most of South Dakota ; northeastern New Mexico ; northern Texas ; the portions of Montana , Wyoming , and  कोलोराडो ईस्ट of the महाद्वीपीय divide ; louisiana वेस्ट of the  Mississippi River , including the city of New Orleans ; and small portions of land that would eventually become part of the Canadian provinces of Alberta and Saskatchewan .
France controlled this vast area from 1699 until 1762 ,  the साल it दिया  the territory to its ally Spain .
Under Napoleon Bonaparte , France took back the territory in 1800 in the hope of building an empire in  उत्तर  America .
A slave revolt in Haiti and an impending war with Britain , however , led France to abandon these plans and sell the entire territory to the United States , who had originally  intended तभी  to seek the purchase of New Orleans and its adjacent lands .
The purchase of the territory of Louisiana took  प्लेस दौरान the  presidency of Thomas Jefferson .
At the time , the  खरीदें faced घरेलू विपक्ष  because it was thought to be unconstitutional .
Although he  सहमत कि the u.S.  Constitution did not contain provisions for acquiring territory , Jefferson decided to go ahead with the purchase anyway in order to remove France 's presence in the region and to protect both U.S. trade access to the port of New Orleans and free passage on the Mississippi River .
Ceremony at Place d'Armes , New Orleans  अंकन ट्रांसफ़र of louisiana  to the United States , 10 March 1804 , as depicted by Thure de Thulstrup .
`` Cool Jerk '' is a popular song written by Donald Storball and  originally  performed by The Capitols .
Released in 1966 ,  it पहुँचे  No . 2 on the American R & B chart and No . 7 on the pop chart .
The backing track for this song was actually  अंकित (  secretly ) by the Motown house band The Funk Brothers .
Per one of the Funk Brothers , the song was  originally  to be called `` Pimp Jerk . ''
This was taken from  watching  neighborhood pimps , who would dance in the clubs , but were too `` cool '' to do the jerk like regular folks .
Their  संस्करण  was subsequently named `` the Pimp Jerk . ''
The producer was afraid that a song with the word  pimp in the शीर्षक  would be banned or not receive much positive attention , and had the title changed to its current form .
The Go-Go 's , Todd Rundgren , Big Trouble , Human Sexual Response , The La De Da 's , The Creation ,  और  The Coasters have covered the song .
Todd Rundgren did his version in an odd time signature ( 7/4 ) , giving an  obviously  jerky feel to the song .
The Go-Go 's covered the song for their 1982 album Vacation and  बाद re-recorded it लिये उनके 1990 एल्बम  Greatest .
In the feature film Home Alone 2 : Lost in New York , Uncle Frank (  gerry bamman ) गाती `` कूल झटका  '' in the shower .
A version of the song with different lyrics ( `` Do the Cool Whip '' ) is used in Cool  चाबुक commercials  .
a रिकॉर्डिंग of `` कूल  Jerk '' by Ricardo Ray is featured in the feature film Donnie Brasco ( 1997 ) .
The song features in the film Standing in the Shadows of Motown , performed by the Funk  भाइयो साथ सीसे vocals  by Bootsy Collins .
The song is  सुना briefly  in the animated feature , Madagascar 3 : Europe 's Most Wanted .
Despite this reason , it is listed in some  विसंगतियाँ  of the film 's soundtrack .
A league is a unit  of लंबाई ( or  , rarely , area ) .
It was long common in Europe and Latin America , but it is  no longer an  official unit in any nation .
The league originally referred to the distance a person  could  walk in an hour .
Since the  मध्य आयु , अनेक  values have been specified in several countries .
In the context of nautical distances , the 3 mile ( 4.8 km ) distance corresponds to how far an observer  of औसत  height ( 5'9 '' or 1.78 m ) can see when standing at sea level .
यूँ , a जलयान traveling एक  `` league '' has reached what was previously the farthest visible distance on the horizon .
The lack of  a ऐतिहासिक और वैश्विक  standard for the exact measure of a `` league '' can be accounted for by the variable elevation of the observer ( i.e. , sightings from a ship 's deck vs. masthead ) .
The Irish state came into being in 1922 as the Irish Free  राज्य ,  a dominion of the British Commonwealth , having seceded from the United Kingdom under the Anglo-Irish Treaty .
it comprises  26 of Ireland 's 32 counties .
चूंकि 1949 it रै  existed as the Republic of Ireland .
From its foundation , the Irish Free State was embroiled in a civil war between nationalists  supporting the सन्धि और प्रतिद्वंद्वियों जो  supported a republic .
The pro-Treaty  side  , organised as Cumann na nGaedheal emerged victorious from the conflict and won subsequent elections .
They formed the government of the  राज्य जबतक 1932 , जब वे  peacefully handed over power to the anti-Treaty faction in Fianna Fáil , who defeated them in an election .
The Irish state , despite its violent  beginnings  , has remained a liberal democracy throughout its existence .
A new  संविधान in 1937 removed  many of the links with Britain established under the Treaty and Ireland 's neutrality in the Second World War demonstrated its independence in foreign policy matters from Britain .
In 1948 Ireland formally  बाएँ the अंग्रेजों  Commonwealth and adopted the title of `` Republic '' .
In the economic sphere , the  आयरिश  state has had a mixed performance .
On independence , it was one of the wealthier countries in Europe  प्रति  head of population .
However it also inherited from British rule the problems of  बेरोजगारी , करणों , uneven भौगोलिक  development and lack of a native industrial base .
For  much  of its history , the state struggled to rectify these problems .
particular चोटियों of करणों यहूद  recorded during the late 1930s , 1950s and 1980s , when the Irish economy recorded little growth .
In the 1930s , Fianna Fáil governments attempted to  बनाएँ आयरिश घरेलू उद्योग using  subsidies and protective tarifs .
In the late 1950s , these policies were dropped in favour of free trade with selected  देशों और प्रोत्साहित of  foreign investment with low taxes .
This was expanded when  आयरलैंड  entered the European Economic Community in 1972 .
In the 1990s and 2000s , Ireland experienced an economic boom known as the Celtic Tiger , in which the  देश  's GDP surpassed many of its European neighbours .
Immigration also surpassed emigration , bringing the state 's  जनसांख्यिकी  up to over 4 million .
However , since 2008 , Ireland has experienced a severe crisis in the banking sector and  साथ sovereign  debt .
The resultant economic slump has deepened the effect of the  संसार मंदी on आयरलैंड  .
From 1937 to 1998 , the Irish constitution included a claim  on उत्तरी आयरलैंड as a भाग of the नेशनल  territory .
However , the state also opposed and used its security forces against those armed groups -  प्रधानतया the अस्थायी आयरिश रिपब्लिकन  Army , who tried to unite Ireland by force .
This occurred in the 1950s , throughout the 1970s  और 1980s और  has continued on a reduced scale .
Irish governments meanwhile tried to  दलाली an अनुबंध  to the conflict known as The Troubles within Northern Ireland from 1968 to the late 1990s .
The British government officially  recognised the सही  of the Irish government to be a party to the Northern negotiations in the Anglo-Irish Agreement of 1985 .
In 1998 , as part of the Good Friday Agreement , the Irish constitution was altered by referendum to remove the territorial claim to Northern Ireland and instead extend the right of Irish citizenship to  सब the लोगों of the द्वीप चाहिए  they wish to have it .
John  क्विंसी  Adams ( July 11 , 1767February 23 , 1848 ) was the sixth President of the United States ( 1825–1829 ) .
He served as American diplomat , Senator , and Congressional   representative .
He was a member of the  federalist  , Democratic-Republican , National Republican , and later Anti-Masonic and Whig parties .
Adams was the son of former President John  एडम्स और अबीगैल एडम्स  .
As a diplomat , Adams played an important role in negotiating many international treaties  , सबसे notably  the Treaty of Ghent , which ended the War of 1812 .
As Secretary of State , he negotiated with the United Kingdom over America 's northern border with  कनाडा , negotiated साथ स्पेन the annexation of फ्लोरिडा  , and authored the Monroe Doctrine .
Historians agree he was one of the greatest diplomats  और secretaries of राज्य  in American history .
As  अध्यक्ष ,  he sought to modernize the American economy and promoted education .
Adams enacted a  भाग of  his agenda and paid off much of the national debt .
He was stymied  by  a Congress controlled by his enemies , and his lack of patronage networks helped politicians eager to undercut him .
He lost his 1828 bid for re-election to  एंड्रयू जैक्सन  .
In doing so , he became the  पहला  president since his father to serve a single term .
Adams is best known as a diplomat who shaped America 's foreign policy in line with his ardently nationalist commitment to America 's  republican  values .
More recently Howe ( 2007 )  portrayed  Adams as the exemplar and moral leader in an era of modernization .
During Adams '  आजीवन , technological नवप्रवर्तनों  and new means of communication spread messages of religious revival , social reform , and party politics .
Goods , money , and people  traveled अधिक  rapidly and efficiently than ever before .
Adams was elected a U.S. Representative from Massachusetts after leaving office , serving for the  पिछला 17 सालो of उसके जीवन साथ  far greater acclamation than he had achieved as president .
He is , so far , the only president  बाद निर्वाचित to the संयुक्त राज्य हाउस of प्रतिनिधि  ( though John Tyler was elected to the House of Representatives of the Confederate States just before his death in 1862 ) .
Animated by his growing revulsion against slavery , Adams became a leading opponent of the Slave  शक्ति  .
He predicted that if a civil war were to break out , the president could abolish slavery by  using उसके युद्ध शक्तियां  .
Adams also predicted the Union 's  विच्छेद over the गुलामी  issue , but said that if the South became independent there would be a series of bloody slave revolts .
Windows Internet Explorer 9 ( IE9 ) is a version of the Internet  एक्सप्लोरर वेब ब्राउजर  from Microsoft .
It was  released  to the public on March 14 , 2011 .
Microsoft has  released अंतरजाल  Explorer 9 as a major out-of-band version that is not tied to the release schedule of any particular version of Windows , unlike previous versions .
It is the first version since Internet Explorer 2 to not be bundled with a Windows operating system , although some  oems have संस्थापित it साथ  Windows 7 on their PCs , as well as new Windows 7 laptops .
the प्रणाली आवश्यकताएँ लिये अंतरजाल एक्सप्लोरर 9 हैं खिड़कियाँ 7 , खिड़कियाँ सर्वर 2008 r2 , खिड़कियाँ विस्टा सेवा पैक 2 or खिड़कियाँ सर्वर 2008 sp2 साथ the मंच  Update .
Windows XP  और  earlier are not supported .
Internet Explorer 9 is the last version of  Internet  Explorer to be supported on Windows Vista .
Both IA-32 and  x64 builds हैं उपलब्धियाँ  .
Internet  एक्सप्लोरर  9 supports several CSS 3 properties , embedded ICC v2 or v4 color profiles support via Windows Color System , and has improved JavaScript performance .
It is the  पिछला of the पाँच प्रमुख  web browsers to implement support for Scalable Vector Graphics ( SVG ) .
It also features hardware-accelerated graphics rendering using Direct2D , hardware-accelerated text rendering using DirectWrite , hardware-accelerated video rendering using Media Foundation , imaging support provided by Windows Imaging Component , and high fidelity printing powered by the XML Paper  specification ( xps  ) print pipeline .
Internet Explorer 9 also supports the  html5 वीडियो  and audio tags and the Web Open Font Format .
Alka-Seltzer is an effervescent antacid and  पीड़ा reliever पहला marketed  by the Dr . Miles Medicine Company .
It was developed by  मौरिस treener  , head chemist at Miles , in Elkhart , Indiana .
Alka-Seltzer is marketed for relief of minor aches , pains , inflammation , fever , headache , heartburn , sour  पेट , अपच , और  hangovers , while neutralizing excess stomach acid .
It was launched  in 1931  .
A spin-off of Alka-Seltzer made to relieve colds and flu , Alka-Seltzer  प्लस , थी बाद  introduced .
A short-lived antacid non-aspirin variant ,  alka-mints , थी introduced in  1994 and discontinued in 1997 .
Alka-Seltzer is currently owned by Bayer  schering  Pharma AG , Germany .
The name `` Alka-Seltzer '' has been extended to incorporate an entire line of medications  बेची over  the counter and taken by means of rapidly dissolving tablets that form a carbonated solution in water .
Cherry Alka  seltzer प्लस टैब्लेट  dissolving in water
Image showing the six most  आम speleothems  with labels .
Enlarge  to  view labels .
A stalactite ( , ; from the Greek stalasso , ( σταλάσσω ) , `` to drip '' , and meaning `` that which drips '' ) is a  प्रकार of speleothem (  secondary mineral ) that hangs from the ceiling of limestone caves .
It is a type  of  dripstone .
The  सम्बन्धित  formation on the floor of the cave is known as a stalagmite .
Degree abbreviations are used as an alternative way to specify an academic degree instead of spelling out the title in full , such as in reference books like Who 's  जो और on कारोबार ताश  .
Many  डिग्री have  more than one abbreviation .
In the UK , it is not generally the custom to punctuate abbreviations for degrees with full stops (  e.g . `` बीएससी  '' rather than `` B.Sc . `` .
रेस is a वर्गीकरण प्रणाली प्रयुक्त to categorize इंसानो  into large and distinct populations or groups by anatomical , cultural , ethnic , genetic , geographical , historical , linguistic , religious , or social affiliation .
First used to denote national affiliations , the term began to be used to relate to physical traits in the  17th सदी  .
In the early 20th century the term was often used  ,  in a taxonomic sense , to denote genetically differentiated human populations defined by phenotype .
While biologists sometimes use the concept of race to make distinctions among fuzzy sets of traits , others in the scientific community suggest that the idea of race often is used in a naive or simplistic way , i.e . that among humans , race has no taxonomic  significance : सब जीना इंसानो belong to the वही प्रजाति , होमो sapiens और subspecies ,  Homo sapiens sapiens .
Social conceptions and groupings of races vary over  समय , involving  folk taxonomies
कि define of  individuals based on perceived traits .
Scientists consider biological essentialism obsolete , and generally discourage racial explanations for collective differentiation  in दोनो शारीरिक  and behavioral traits .
Since the second half of the 20th century the associations of  रेस साथ the विचारधाराओं और theories कि grew आउट of  the work of 19th-century anthropologists and physiologists has led to the use of the word race itself becoming problematic .
Although still used in general contexts , it is now often replaced by other words which are less ambiguous  और emotionally चार्ज  , such as populations , people ( s ) , ethnic groups or communities depending on context .
Lucy Stone  ( अगस्त 13  , 1818 – October 19 , 1893 ) was a prominent American abolitionist and suffragist , and a vocal advocate and organizer promoting rights for women .
In 1847 ,  स्टोन became  the first woman from Massachusetts to earn a college degree .
She spoke out for women   's rights and against slavery at a time when women were discouraged and prevented from public speaking .
Stone  थी the पहला अंकित  American woman to retain her own last name after marriage .
Stone 's organizational  क्रियाएँ लिये the कारण of महिलाओं  's rights yielded tangible gains in the difficult political environment of the 19th century .
Stone helped initiate the first National Women 's Rights Convention and she supported and sustained it annually along with a number of other local , state and  क्षेत्रीय  activist conventions .
Stone spoke in front of a number of legislative bodies  to प्रचार कानून  giving more rights to women .
She assisted in establishing the Woman 's National Loyal League to help pass the Thirteenth Amendment and thereby abolish slavery , after which she helped form the largest group of like-minded women 's rights reformers , the politically moderate American Woman Suffrage Association ,  जिससे worked लिये दशकों at the राज्य स्तर in एहसान of महिलाओं  's right to vote .
Stone wrote extensively about a wide range of women 's rights ,  प्रकाशन और distributing भाषणों by  herself and others , and convention proceedings .
In the long-running and influential Woman 's Journal , a weekly periodical that she established and  प्रचारित , स्टोन aired दोनो  her own and differing views about women 's rights .
Called `` the orator '' and `` the  morning स्टार of the स्त्री 's अधिकारों गति ''  , Stone delivered a speech which sparked Susan B. Anthony to take up the cause of women 's suffrage .
Elizabeth Cady Stanton wrote that `` Lucy Stone was the first  व्यक्ति by जिसको the  heart of the American public was deeply stirred on the woman question . ''
Together , Anthony , Stanton , and Stone have been called the 19th century ``  triumvirate  `` of women 's suffrage and feminism .
In finance , a bond is an instrument  of indebtedness  of the bond issuer to the holders .
It is a debt security , under which the issuer owes the holders a debt and , depending on the terms of the bond ,  is obliged to अदा उन्हें ब्याज  ( the coupon ) or to repay the principal at a later date , termed the maturity .
Interest is usually payable at fixed intervals (  semiannual  , annual , sometimes monthly ) .
Very often the bond is negotiable , i.e . the ownership of the instrument can be transferred in  the  secondary market .
Thus a bond is a form of loan or IOU : the holder of the bond is  the lender ( creditor ) , the जारीकर्ता of the बंध is the borrower  ( debtor ) , and the coupon is the interest .
Bonds provide the borrower with external funds to finance long-term  निवेश , or , in the मामला of  government bonds , to finance current expenditure .
Certificates of deposit ( CDs ) or short term commercial paper are considered to be money market instruments and not bonds : the  प्रमुख अंतर  is in the length of the term of the instrument .
Bonds and stocks are both securities , but the major difference between the two is that ( capital ) stockholders have an equity stake in the company ( i.e . they are owners ) , whereas bondholders  have a creditor stake in  the company ( i.e . they are lenders ) .
Another difference is that bonds usually have a defined term , or maturity , after which the bond is redeemed , whereas stocks may be  बकाया  indefinitely .
An exception is an irredeemable bond , such as Consols , which is a perpetuity , i.e  . a बंध साथ no परिपक्वता  .
A  स्केल  model of the Tower of London .
This model can be found inside  the मीनार  .
स्केल मॉडल of  water powered turbine
L to R with 12 inch ruler at bottom : 1:64  matchbox शेवरलेट tahoe , 1:43 घाट  F-100 , 1:25 Revell Monogram 1999 Ford Mustang Cobra , 1:18 Bburago 1987 Ferrari F40
Model ships  और किला
A scale model is a physical   model , a representation or copy of an object that is larger or smaller than the actual size of the object , which seeks to maintain the relative proportions ( the scale factor ) of the physical size of the original object .
Very often  the स्केल मॉडल  is used as a guide to making the object in full size .
Scale  मॉडल हैं  built or collected for many reasons .
The Zune HD was a portable media player in the Zune product  परिवार released  on September 15 , 2009 by Microsoft .
It was a direct competitor with the Apple  ipod और iphone श्रेणी  of mobile devices .
It was initially released in 16  और 32 gb capacities  .
A 64 GB  संस्करण  was released on April 9 , 2010 .
It utilized a touchscreen interface for navigation and included Wi-Fi for synchronization , access to  the zune मार्केटप्लेस  and Web browsing .
The   Zune HD utilized the Nvidia Tegra APX 2600 chip , allowing it to play 720p video through the optional HDMI Zune dock on a high-definition television .
Otherwise , content would be scaled down to 480x272 pixels  on the  player 's OLED touchscreen .
Old Sparky , the electric chair used at  गाओ गाओ थाना
Execution by electrocution , usually performed using an electric chair , is an execution method originating in the United States in which the condemned person is  strapped to a विशेषकर निर्मित लकड़ी कुर्सी  and electrocuted through electrodes placed on the body .
This execution method was created by employees of Thomas Edison during the War of Currents , and has been used only in the United States and , for a period of several decades , in the Philippines ( its first use there in 1924 under  अमरीकी occupation , पिछला  in 1976 ) .
Historically , once the condemned person was attached to the chair , various cycles ( differing  in वोल्टेज और अवधि ) of प्रत्यावर्ती वर्तमान  would be passed through the individual 's body , in order to cause fatal damage to the internal organs ( including the brain ) .
The first jolt of electric current  थी designed to कारण तात्कालिक unconsciousness  and brain death ; the second one was designed to cause fatal damage to the vital organs .
Death was frequently caused by  विद्युत  overstimulation of the heart .
Although in the United States the electric chair has become a symbol of the death penalty , its use is in decline  due to the वृद्धि of lethal इंजेक्शन , जिससे is widely believed to be a  more humane method of execution .
Although some states still  maintain electrocution as a विधि of निष्पादन , आज it is तभी कायम as a द्वितीयक विधि कि may be चुनी over lethal इंजेक्शन at the निवेदन of the कैदी .
As of 2010 , electrocution  is  an optional form of execution in Alabama , Florida , South Carolina and Virginia .
They  allow the  prisoner to choose lethal injection as an alternative method .
In the states of Kentucky and Tennessee  , the इलेक्ट्रिक कुर्सी रै महरूम रिटायर्ड  except for those whose capital crimes were committed prior to legislated dates in 1998 ( Kentucky : March 31 , 1998 ; Tennessee : December 31 , 1998 ) and who chose electrocution .
In both states ,  inmates जो  do not choose electrocution or inmates who committed their crimes after the designated date are killed by lethal injection .
The electric chair is an alternate form of execution approved for potential use in Arkansas  और  Oklahoma if other forms of execution are found unconstitutional in the state at the time of execution .
It is the sole method of execution in Vermont , where treason is the   only capital crime .
On February 8 , 2008 , the Nebraska Supreme Court determined that execution by  इलेक्ट्रिक कुर्सी थी a  `` cruel and unusual punishment '' under the state 's constitution .
This brought executions of this type to an end in Nebraska , the only remaining state to retain electrocution as its sole  विधि of निष्पादन  for murder .
The Maryland House of Delegates is the lower house of the General Assembly , the state  विधानमंडल of the अमरीकी राज्य of मेरीलैंड  , and is composed of 141 Delegates elected from 47 districts .
The House of Delegates Chamber is located in the Maryland  राज्य  House ( state capitol ) on State Circle in Annapolis , which is the state capital .
The State House also houses  the मेरीलैंड  State Senate Chamber and the offices of the Governor and Lieutenant Governor of the State of Maryland .
Each Delegate has offices in Annapolis , in the nearby Casper R. Taylor , Jr.  हाउस दफ्तर भवन  .
The Liberation of Paris ( also known as the Battle for Paris ) took place during World War II from 19 August  1944 जबतक the आत्मसमर्पण of the  occupying German garrison on 25 August .
The Liberation of Paris  प्रारंभ साथ  an uprising by the French Resistance against the German garrison .
on 24 अगस्त , the फ्रेंच शक्तियां  of the Interior ( Forces françaises de l'intérieur , FFI ) received reinforcements from the Free French Army of Liberation and from the U.S. Third Army under General Patton .
The  पूंजी प्रदेश of फ़्रांस था महरूम governed by नाजी जर्मनी  since the signing of the Second Compiègne Armistice in June 1940 , when the German Army occupied northern and westernmost France , and when the puppet regime of Vichy France was established in the town of Vichy in central France .
This battle marked the liberation   of Paris and the exile of the Vichy government to Sigmaringen in Germany .
However , there was still  much भारी लड़ to be किया  before France was liberated , including the campaign in southern France during August-September ( in Provence and extending into the southwestern region of the Vosges Mountains ) , along the German-held seaports of western France ( such as at Brest and Dunkirk ) , in Alsace and Lorraine in eastern France , and in northeastern France , such as along the Rhine and Moder Rivers .
The German Army and SS fought doggedly in  ये क्षेत्रों लिये  the remainder of 1944 and into 1945 .
`` Feelin ' Alright ? '' also known as  `` अहसास alright '' is a सोंग लिखा  by Dave Mason of the English rock band Traffic from their eponymous 1968 album , Traffic .
The song was also a hit single for several performers : Joe Cocker ( 1969 , # 69 , recharted in 1972 , US # 33 ) , Mongo Santamaría  ( 1969 , # 95  ) and Grand Funk Railroad ( 1971 , US # 54 ) .
It has also been recorded by Three Dog Night ( 1969 ) , The 5th Dimension ( 1970 ) , Lou Rawls , Freddie King , Paul Weller , Lulu , Chairmen of the Board ( 1970 ) , Rare Earth , The Electric  Concept Orchestra , Mother 's Finest ( 1973 ) ,  The Ohio Players ( 1971 ) , Diana Ross with the Jackson 5 ( 1971 ) , Maceo Parker , Gladys Knight & the Pips , Widespread Panic and The Black Crowes .
A Steel  ढोल संस्करण by त्रिनिदाद आयल  Company was reissued on the dancefloor jazz compilation Blue Juice 2 .
It was also featured in the 2000 film Duets ,  सुंग by  Huey Lewis .
Both the original and the Joe Cocker cover were featured in the movie Flight , starring  डेंज़ल वॉशिंगटन  .
Devon Werkheiser ( born March 8,1991 ) is an American actor , voice actor , singer ,  songwriter और  musician , best known for his starring role as Ned Bigby on the Nickelodeon sitcom Ned 's Declassified School Survival Guide and for his role in the 2007 TV Movie Shredderman Rules , as the lead character Nolan Byrd .
Werkheiser also played  पीटर  Parkes in the fourth and final season of the ABC Family show Greek .
Sample view of an electronic  स्वास्थ्य रिकार्ड  based on images
Sample view of an electronic health  रिकार्ड
An electronic health record ( EHR ) is an  evolving  concept defined as a systematic collection of electronic health information about individual patients or populations .
It is a record in digital format that is theoretically  सक्षम of होने  shared across different health care settings .
In some cases this sharing can  occur by रास्ता  of network-connected enterprise-wide information systems and other information networks or exchanges .
EHRs may include a range of data , including demographics , medical history , medication and allergies , immunization status , laboratory test results , radiology images , vital signs  , निजी आंकड़े जैसे आयु  and weight , and billing information .
Loan origination is the process by which a borrower applies for a new loan , and a  lender प्रक्रियाओं कि अनुप्रयोग  .
Origination generally  शामिल सब the कदम इससे लेने  a loan application up to disbursal of funds ( or declining the application ) .
Loan servicing covers everything after disbursing the funds  जबतक the ऋण is  fully paid off .
Loan origination is a specialized version of new account opening  लिये वित्तीय  services organizations .
Certain people and organizations  specialize  in loan origination .
Mortgage  brokers  and other mortgage originator companies serve as a prominent example .
There are  अनेक  different types of loans .
For more  सूचना  on loan types , see the loan and consumer lending articles .
Steps involved in originating a loan vary by loan type , various kinds of  ऋण रिस्क , नियामक  , lender policy , and other factors .
Top left : The Tennessee Valley Authority , part  of the नई  Deal , being signed into law in 1933 .
Top right : Franklin Delano Roosevelt , who was responsible for initiatives and programs collectively  ज्ञात as the  New Deal .
Bottom  : a पब्लिक भित्ति  from one of the artists employed by the New Deal .
The  नई सौदे थी  a series of economic programs enacted in the United States between 1933 and 1936 .
They involved presidential executive orders or laws passed by Congress during the first term of President  फ्रैंकलिन  D. Roosevelt .
The programs were in response to the Great Depression ,  और केन्द्रित on कया इतिहासकारों  call the `` 3 Rs '' : Relief , Recovery , and Reform .
That is Relief for the unemployed and poor ; Recovery of the economy to normal levels ; and Reform of the financial  प्रणाली to prevent  a repeat depression .
The New Deal produced a political realignment , making the Democratic  Party the majority ( as well as the  party that held the White House for seven out of nine Presidential terms from 1933 to 1969 ) , with its base in liberal ideas , the white South , traditional Democrats , big city machines , and the newly empowered labor unions and ethnic minorities .
The Republicans were  विभाजित , साथ  conservatives opposing the entire New Deal as an enemy of business and growth , and liberals accepting some of it and promising to make it more efficient .
The realignment crystallized into the New Deal Coalition that dominated most presidential elections  into the 1960s , जबकि  the opposition Conservative Coalition largely controlled Congress from 1937 to 1963 .
By 1936 the  पद `` उदार  '' typically was used for supporters of the New Deal , and `` conservative `` for its opponents .
From 1934 to  1938 , रूज़वेल्ट थी assisted in उसके endeavours  by a “pro-spender” majority in Congress ( drawn from two-party , competitive , non-machine , Progressive , and Left party districts ) .
As noted by Alexander Hicks , “Roosevelt , backed by rare , non-Southern Democrat majorities — 270 non-Southern Democrat representatives and 71  non-southern डेमोक्रेट  senators — spelled Second New Deal reform.”
Many historians distinguish between a  `` पहला नई सौदे ''  ( 1933–34 ) and a `` Second New Deal '' ( 1935–38 ) , with the second one more liberal and more controversial .
The `` First New Deal '' ( 1933–34 ) dealt with diverse groups , from  बैंकिंग और railroads to उद्योग और  farming , all of which demanded help for economic survival .
The Federal Emergency Relief Administration , for instance ,  provided $ 500 लाख  for relief operations by states and cities , while the short-lived CWA ( Civil Works Administration ) gave localities money to operate make-work projects in 1933-34 .
The `` Second New Deal ``  in 1935–38 शामिल the वेगनर अधिनियम to प्रचार मजदूर  unions , the Works Progress Administration ( WPA ) relief program ( which made the federal government by far the largest single employer in the nation ) , the Social Security Act , and new programs to aid tenant farmers and migrant workers .
The final major items of New Deal legislation were the creation of the United States Housing Authority and Farm Security  प्रशासन , दोनो in 1937 , और the मेला  Labor Standards Act of 1938 , which set maximum hours and minimum wages for most categories of workers .
The economic downturn of  1937–38 , और the कड़वा  split between the AFL and CIO labor unions led to major Republican gains in Congress in 1938 .
Conservative Republicans and Democrats in Congress joined in the informal  रूढ़िवादी गठबन्धन  .
By 1942–43 they shut down relief programs  ऐसे  as the WPA and CCC and blocked major liberal proposals .
Roosevelt himself turned his attention to the war   effort , and won reelection in 1940 and 1944 .
The Supreme Court declared the National Recovery Administration ( NRA ) and the first version of the Agricultural Adjustment Act (  aaa ) असंवैधानिक , however the aaa  was rewritten and then upheld .
As the first Republican president elected after FDR , Dwight D. Eisenhower ( 1953–61 ) left the New  सौदे largely  intact , even expanding it in some areas .
In the 1960s , Lyndon B. Johnson 's Great Society used the New Deal as inspiration for a dramatic  विस्तार of उदार कार्यक्रम , जिससे  Republican Richard M. Nixon generally retained .
After 1974 , however , the call for deregulation   of the economy gained bipartisan support .
The New   Deal regulation of banking ( Glass–Steagall Act ) was suspended in the 1990s .
Many New Deal programs remain active , with some still operating under the original names , including the Federal Deposit Insurance  निगम  ( FDIC ) , the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation ( FCIC ) , the Federal Housing Administration ( FHA ) , and the Tennessee Valley Authority ( TVA ) .
The largest  कार्यक्रम स्टिल in अस्तित्व  today are the Social Security System and the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) .
A woman ( ) , pl : women ( ) is  a मादा  human .
The term woman is usually reserved for an   adult , with the term girl being the usual term for a female child or adolescent .
However , the term woman is also sometimes used to identify a female human , regardless of age , as in  वाक्यांश ऐसे as `` महिलाओं  's rights `` .
Women are  typically  capable of giving birth , though older women who have gone through menopause and some intersex women can not .
`` I Do n't Want to Miss a Thing '' is a song performed by American rock band Aerosmith  लिये the 1998 फिल्मी  Armageddon .
Written by Diane Warren , the song debuted  at क्रमांक एक  on the Billboard Hot 100 ( the first # 1 for the band after 28 years together ) .
The song stayed at number one for four weeks from September 5  to  September 26 , 1998 .
The song also  ठहरे at क्रमांक 1  for several weeks in several other countries .
In the UK , the song peaked at number four , becoming Aerosmith 's highest charting song in the UK , where it was the 17th best-selling single of  1998 , और  has sold over a million copies .
Although not  प्रयुक्त by the  majority of the world 's countries , daylight saving time is common in the Western world .
Daylight saving time ( DST ) —also summer time in British English — is the practice of advancing clocks during the lighter months  so कि evenings  have more daylight and mornings have less .
Typically clocks are  समायोजित आगे  one hour near the start of spring and are adjusted backward in autumn .
The modern  विचार of daylight छायांकन थी पहला प्रस्तावित in 1895 by जार्ज vernon  Hudson and it was first implemented during the First World War .
Many countries  have प्रयुक्त it at विभिन्न  times since then .
Much of the  संयुक्त राज्य प्रयुक्त  DST in the 1950s and 1960s , and DST use expanded following the 1970s energy crisis and has been widely used in North America and Europe since then .
The practice has been both praised and  criticized  .
Adding daylight to evenings benefits retailing , sports , and other activities that exploit sunlight after working  घंटों , लकिन can कारण समस्याएं  for evening entertainment and other occupations tied to the sun .
Although an early goal of DST was to reduce evening usage of incandescent lighting ( formerly a primary use of electricity ) , modern heating and cooling usage patterns differ greatly , and research  परिचय कैसा  DST currently affects energy use is limited or contradictory .
DST clock shifts present  अन्य चुनौतियां  .
They complicate timekeeping , and can disrupt meetings , travel , billing , record keeping , medical  डिवाइस , भारी उपकरण ,  and sleep patterns .
Software can often adjust computer clocks  automatically , लकिन इस can  be limited and error-prone , particularly when DST dates are changed .
Floorplan  of the château  de Montargis
Montargis is a commune in the Loiret  विभाग  in north-central France on the Loing river .
The town is  स्तिथ परिचय  south of Paris and east of Orléans in the Gâtinais .
Montargis is the second  largest नगर  in the Loiret , after Orléans .
It is near a large forest , and  contains  light industry and farming , including saffron .
Due to  इसके numerous नहरों  and bridges , Montargis sometimes bills itself as the `` Venice of the Gâtinais . ''
Though  काफी  modern , it retains a medieval charm in its downtown area .
In computer storage , a logical unit number , or LUN , is a number used to identify a logical unit , which is a device addressed by the SCSI protocol or  प्रोटोकॉल जिससे  encapsulate SCSI , such as Fibre Channel or iSCSI .
A LUN may be used with any device  जिससे supports read/write  operations , such as a tape drive , but is most often used to refer to a logical disk as created on a SAN .
Though not technically  सही , the पद  `` LUN '' is often also used to refer to the logical disk itself .
The Gospel According to Mark ( ,  , to  euangelion kata Markon ) , commonly shortened to the Gospel of Mark or simply Mark , is the second book of the New Testament .
This canonical  खाता of  the life of Jesus of Nazareth is one of the three synoptic gospels .
It was thought to be an   epitome , which accounts for its place as the second gospel in the Bible .
However , most contemporary scholars now regard it as the earliest of the canonical  gospels  ( c 70 ) .
That Mark was used as a source for the other synoptic gospels Gospel of Matthew and  इन्जील  of Luke is widely held by many , although not all , New Testament scholars .
The Gospel of Mark narrates the Ministry of Jesus from his baptism  by जॉन the बैपटिस्ट to  his death and resurrection .
It focuses particularly on the last week of his life (  अध्याय 11–16 )  in Jerusalem .
Its swift narrative portrays Jesus as a heroic man of action , an exorcist ,  healer  and miracle worker .
An important theme of Mark is the  मुक्तिदाता रहस्य  .
Jesus silences the demoniacs he heals , tries  unsuccessfully to रखना उसके मुक्तिदाता पहचान  secret , and conceals his message with parables .
Meanwhile , the disciples fail  to  understand both the implication of the miracles of Jesus and the meaning of the things he predicts about his arrest , death and resurrection .
Most scholars believe that the original text of the gospel ends at Mark  16:8  with the discovery of Jesus ' empty tomb and that the following account of his resurrection appearances is a later addition .
According to tradition and some early church writers , the author is Mark  the इंजीलवादी , the साथी  of the apostle Peter .
The gospel , however , appears to rely on several underlying sources , varying in form and in theology , which tells against  the परंपरा  that the gospel was based on Peter 's preaching .
The text is a compilation which may include eye-witness accounts as well as known apostolic preachings , and pre-existing written records that do not exist today but can be confirmed  इससे 2nd-century  commentators .
Some of the stories in the  इन्जील may have महरूम transmitted  orally before being written down .
Various  तत्व भीतर  the gospel suggest that the author wrote in Syria or Palestine for a non-Jewish Christian community .
The Lord of the Rings is an epic high fantasy novel written by English philologist and University of Oxford  प्राध्यापक J. R. R. tolkien  .
The story began  as a sequel to  Tolkien 's 1937 children 's fantasy novel The Hobbit , but eventually developed into a much larger work .
It was written in  चरण between  1937 and 1949 , much of it during World War II .
It is the second best-selling novel ever written , with over 150  लाख नक़ल  sold .
The title of the novel refers to the  स्टोरी 's प्रमुख  antagonist , the Dark Lord Sauron , who had in an earlier age created the One Ring to rule the other Rings of Power as the ultimate weapon in his campaign to conquer and rule all of Middle-earth .
From quiet  beginnings in the शायर , a होब्बिट जमीन नहीं नापसंद the अंग्रेज़ी countryside  , the story ranges across north-west Middle-earth , following the course of the War of the Ring through the eyes of its characters , notably the hobbits Frodo Baggins , Samwise `` Sam '' Gamgee , Meriadoc `` Merry '' Brandybuck and Peregrin `` Pippin '' Took , but also the hobbits ' chief allies and travelling companions : Aragorn , a Human Ranger ; Boromir , a man from Gondor ; Gimli , a Dwarf warrior ; Legolas , an Elven prince ; and Gandalf , a Wizard .
The work  थी initially intended  by Tolkien to be one volume of a two-volume set , with the other being The Silmarillion , but this idea was dismissed by his publisher .
It was decided for economic reasons to publish The Lord of the Rings as three  आयतन over the कोर्स of a साल इससे 29 जुलाई 1954 to 20 अक्तूबर  1955 , thus creating the now familiar Lord of the Rings trilogy .
The  तीन आयतन यहूद हकदार  The Fellowship of the Ring , The Two Towers , and The Return of the King .
Structurally , the  अनोखा is विभाजित internally into  six books , two per volume , with several appendices of background material included at the end of the third volume .
The Lord of the Rings has since been  reprinted numerous  times and translated into many languages .
tolkien 's कार्य रै महरूम  the subject of extensive analysis of its themes and origins .
Although a major work in itself , the story was only the last movement of a larger epic Tolkien had worked on since 1917 , in a process  he वर्णित as  mythopoeia .
Influences on this earlier work , and on the story of The Lord  of the बजती , शामिल philology , mythology , धर्म  and the author 's distaste for the effects of industrialization , as well as earlier fantasy works and Tolkien 's experiences in World War I .
The Lord of the Rings in its turn is considered to have had a great effect on modern fantasy ; the impact of Tolkien 's  works is ऐसे कि the उपयोग of  the words `` Tolkienian '' and `` Tolkienesque '' have been recorded in the Oxford English Dictionary .
The enduring popularity of The  रब of the बजती रै led to numerous  references in popular culture , the founding of many societies by fans of Tolkien 's works , and the publication of many books about Tolkien and his works .
The Lord of the Rings has inspired , and continues to inspire , artwork , music  , films और टेलीविज़न ,  video games , and subsequent literature .
Award-winning adaptations of The Lord of the Rings have been made for radio  ,  theatre , and film .
The following is an episode list for the  निकलोडियन sitcom ड्रेक  & Josh .
The series  debuted on जनवरी  11 , 2004 .
A TV film Merry Christmas  , ड्रेक & जोश थी बना  apart from the regular series on December 5 , 2008 .
There are a  कुल  of 60 episodes were produced spanning four seasons .
ड्रेक घंटी , जोश पेक , और मिरांडा cosgrove यहूद the तभी अभिनेताओं to appear in सब 60 एपीसोड .
The San Francisco 49ers  conduct  training camp at the team 's headquarters and practice facility in Santa Clara , California in August 2010 .
The offense is wearing red jerseys with the exception of quarterback Alex Smith , who is in a black jersey ; the  रक्षा in श्वेत  .
In the National Football League , training camp refers to the time before the season  commences  .
During this time , teams will sometimes congregate at an  बाहर स्थान , प्रायः a विश्वविद्यालयों  , to conduct training camp for at least the first few weeks .
This is similar to  बेसबॉल 's वसन्त  training .
Training camp is used in  अनेक अलग  ways .
New  खिलाड़ी और कोच  use it to acclimate themselves to new teammates and systems .
For younger players , it serves as a period of evaluation ; for veterans , it is time to  गोलाकार वापस into  form .
Training camp is divided  into अनेक  different components .
the  first is scrimmages .
These are pseudo-games where teams run  nearly पूरा खेल  ' worth of plays .
Sometimes  , दो अभ्यास सत्र  are held on the same day .
This concept is  referred to as  two-a-days .
Other parts of training camp include drills , meetings with coaches and other players at one  's स्थिति , वज़न प्रशिक्षण , और pre-season  games .
The latter half of  प्रशिक्षण शिविर लीड  directly into the exhibition season .
With NFL training  शिविरों starting  in late-July , the biggest concern has been dehydration .
In 2001 , Minnesota Vikings player Korey Stringer died of a medical   condition based from dehydration and heatstroke .
The  मौत of stringer  prompted the NFL to change their training policies .
At each practice , every team must have the team doctor and trainers on the field ; additionally , an   ambulance must be present during practices .
With NFL training camps beginning in late July , severe  मौसम can affect  practice and exhibition games .
in 2002 , a क्लीवलैंड भूरा प्रदर्शनी खेल ended due to बिजली निकट क्लीवलैंड भूरा स्टेडियम , और कठोर तूफ़ान have महरूम ज्ञात to disrupt प्रशिक्षण शिविरों  .
Fans are often able to  विज़िट उनके पसंदीदा टोली 's प्रशिक्षण शिविर to कैच an जल्दी dekh at  the players ; admission to practices is often free or substantially less expensive than a game ticket , making training camp trips a popular option for fans who can not attend many games due to financial or other reasons .
NFL teams often sell souvenirs and concessions  at  camp sites along with offering activities and events to make training camp a more fan-friendly experience .
In computing , a file system ( or filesystem ) is a type of data store which can be used to  स्टोर  , retrieve and update a set of files .
The term could refer to the abstract data structures used to define files , or to the actual software or firmware components  कि implement  the abstract ideas .
Some file systems are used on local data storage  डिवाइस ; अन्य provide  file access via a network protocol ( e.g . NFS , SMB , or 9P clients ) .
Some file systems are ``  आभासी  '' , in that the `` files '' supplied are computed on request ( e.g . procfs ) or are merely a mapping into a different file system used as a backing store .
The file system manages access to both the content of files and the  मेटाडेटा  about those files .
It is responsible for arranging storage space ; reliability , efficiency , and tuning with regard to the  शारीरिक भंडार  medium are important design considerations .
William Howard Taft ( September 15 , 1857 – March 8 , 1930 ) was the 27th President of the United States  ( 1909–1913 ) और बाद the दसवाँ  Chief Justice of the United States ( 1921–1930 ) .
He is the  तभी व्यक्ति to have  served in both of these offices .
Before becoming President , Taft , a Republican , was selected to serve on the Superior Court  of सिनसिनाटी  in 1887 .
In 1890 , Taft  थी नियुक्त solicitor सामान्य  of the United States and in 1891 a judge on the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit .
In  1900 ,  President William McKinley appointed Taft Governor-General of the Philippines .
In 1904 , President Theodore Roosevelt appointed Taft Secretary of War in an effort to groom Taft , then his close political ally , into his handpicked presidential successor   .
Taft assumed a prominent role in problem solving , assuming on some occasions the role of acting Secretary of State , while declining  दोहराया offers इससे रूज़वेल्ट to serve on the परम्  Court .
Riding a wave of popular support for fellow Republican Roosevelt , Taft won an easy victory in  his  1908 bid for the presidency .
In his only term , Taft 's domestic agenda emphasized trust-busting , civil service reform , strengthening the Interstate Commerce Commission , improving the performance of the postal service , and  ड्योढ़ी of the  Sixteenth Amendment .
Abroad , Taft sought to further the economic development of nations in Latin America and Asia through `` Dollar Diplomacy `` , and showed decisiveness and restraint in response to  क्रान्ति  in Mexico .
The task-oriented Taft was oblivious to the political ramifications of his decisions , often alienated his own key constituencies , and was  overwhelmingly पराजित in उसके बोली  for a second term in the presidential election of 1912 .
In surveys of presidential scholars , Taft is usually ranked near the  मध्य of सूचियाँ  of all American Presidents .
After leaving  दफ्तर , taft खर्च  his time in academia , arbitration , and the search for world peace through his self-founded League to Enforce Peace .
In 1921 , after the  पहला संसार युद्ध  , President Warren G. Harding appointed Taft Chief Justice of the United States .
Taft served in this capacity until shortly before  उसके मौत in 1930  .
The Ten Commandments is a 1956 epic film produced and directed by Cecil B. DeMille that dramatized the biblical story of the Exodus , in  जिससे the hebrew-born  Moses , an adopted Egyptian prince , becomes the deliverer of the Hebrew slaves .
It starred Charlton Heston in the lead role , Yul Brynner as his adoptive brother , Pharaoh Rameses II , Anne Baxter as Nefretiri , Edward G.  रॉबिन्सन as dathan , yvonne de  Carlo as Sephora , Debra Paget as Lilia , and John Derek as Joshua .
The supporting cast includes Sir Cedric Hardwicke as Pharaoh Seti I , Nina Foch as Bithiah , Martha Scott as Yoshebel , Judith Anderson as Memnet , Vincent  दाम as baka ,  and John Carradine as Aaron .
The film was released by  सर्वोपरि  Pictures in VistaVision on October 5 , 1956 .
The Ten Commandments , which DeMille narrated , was the last  फिल्मी कि he  directed .
He was set to  सीधा  the 1958 remake of his 1938 film The Buccaneer , but his final illness forced him to relinquish the directing chores to his son-in-law , actor Anthony Quinn .
DeMille had also planned to film the life of Lord Baden Powell , the founder of the Scout movement , with  दाउद niven  ; this project was never realized .
The Ten  आयतें is a  partial remake of DeMille 's 1923 silent film .
Some of the cast and crew of the 1956 version worked on  the असली .
It  रै चूंकि  been remade as a television miniseries broadcast in April 2006 .
The  टेन आयतें is एक of the  most financially successful films ever made , grossing over $ 65 million at the U.S. box office .
Adjusting for inflation , this makes it the sixth highest-grossing film domestically ,  साथ an समायोजित  total of $ 1,025,730,000 in 2012 .
The box office website ``  the संख्याएँ '' सूचियाँ  the domestic gross at $ 80 million .
In 1999 , The Ten  आयतें थी चयनित लिये संरक्षण in  the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as being `` culturally , historically , or aesthetically significant '' .
In June 2008  , the अमरीकी फिल्मी संस्थान नाज़िल इसके `` टेन शीर्ष टेन `` —the बेहतरीन टेन films in टेन अमरीकी फिल्मी genres—after polling over 1,500 लोगों इससे the रचनात्मक जातियाँ .
The Ten  आयतें थी  listed as the tenth best film in the epic genre .
The film received seven Academy Award nominations including Best  चित्र , और जीती the अकादमी  Award for Best Visual Effects .
Charlton Heston was nominated for a Golden Globe Award for Best Motion  चित्र कर्ता in the  drama category .
Yul Brynner won the National Board of Review  पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन  Actor for his role as Rameses , along with his other roles in The King and I and Anastasia .
Louisville ( ,  or ) is  a major city and the largest city in the U.S. state of Kentucky and the county seat of Jefferson County .
Since 2003 , the city 's borders have been with those of the county  क्युकी of a city-county  merger .
The city 's total consolidated  जनसांख्यिकी  at the 2010 census was 741,096 ( Louisville 's balance total , 602,011 , excludes semi-autonomous towns and is the population listed in most sources and national rankings ) .
As of 2010 , the  louisville महानगर  area ( MSA ) had a population of 1,307,647 ranking 42nd nationally .
The metro area includes Louisville-Jefferson County and 12 surrounding counties , eight in Kentucky and  चार  in Southern Indiana ( see Geography below ) .
The Louisville Combined Statistical Area  , having a जनसांख्यिकी of 1,451,564 , शामिल  the MSA , Hardin County and Larue County in Kentucky , and Scott County , Indiana .
An important internal shipping port in the 19th century , Louisville today is best  ज्ञात as the  location of the Kentucky Derby , the first of three annual thoroughbred horse races making up the Triple Crown .
A typical experimental setup for an aldol  प्रतिक्रिया  .
Both flasks are submerged in a dry ice/acetone cooling bath ( −78 °C ) the temperature of which is being monitored by a  तापयुग्म  ( the wire on the left ) .
A cooling bath , in laboratory chemistry ( often but not always organic  रसायन ) अभ्यास  , is a liquid mixture which is used to maintain low temperatures , typically between 13 °C and −196 °C .
These low temperatures  हैं प्रयुक्त to  collect liquids after distillation , to remove solvents using a rotary evaporator , or to perform a chemical reaction below room temperature ( see : kinetic control ) .
Cooling baths are generally one of two types : ( a ) a cold fluid ( particularly liquid nitrogen , water , or even air ) — but most commonly the term refers to ( b ) a mixture of 3 components : ( 1 ) a  कूलिंग एजेंट ( ऐसे as शुष्क बर्फ or जल बर्फ ) ; ( b ) a द्रव  'carrier ' ( such as liquid water , ethylene glycol , acetone , etc . ) , which transfers heat between the bath and the vessel ; ; and ( c ) an additive to depress the melting-point of the solid/liquid system .
( A familiar example of this is the use of an  ice/rock-salt मिश्रण to फ्रीज  ice cream .
The phase-change of  बर्फ into द्रव  water requires energy , 'pulling ' heat from the system .
Adding salt lowers the temp at which this happens ,  अर्थ  more energy has to be absorbed from the environment in order to melt the ice .
This effectively makes the ice 'colder ' —  it जरूर 'pull ' अधिक ऊष्मा इससे इसके पर्यावरण  to become liquid . )
Eating disorders are conditions defined by abnormal  खाने आदतें कि may  involve either insufficient or excessive food intake to the detriment of an individual 's physical and mental health .
Bulimia nervosa and anorexia nervosa  हैं the सबसे आम  specific forms in the United Kingdom .
Other types of eating disorders include binge eating  विकार और  eating disorder not otherwise specified .
Bulimia nervosa is a disorder characterized by binge eating and  purging  .
Purging  can  include self-induce vomiting , over-exercising , and the usage of diuretics , enemas , and laxatives .
Anorexia nervosa is characterized by extreme food restriction to the  पाइंट of self-starvation  and excessive weight loss .
हालांकि primarily  thought of as affecting females ( an estimated 5–10 million being affected in the U.K. ) , eating disorders affect males as well .
An estimated 10 – 15 % of people  साथ खाने विकार  are males ( Gorgan , 1999 ) .
( an  अनुमानित 1 लाख  U.K. males being affected ) .
Although eating disorders are increasing all over the world among both men and women , there is evidence to suggest that it is women in the Western world who are at the highest risk  of  developing them and the degree of westernization increases the risk .
Nearly  हाफ of सब  Americans personally know someone with an eating disorder .
The skill to comprehend the central processes of appetite has increased tremendously since leptin was discovered , and the skill to observe  the कृत्यों of the दिमाग  as well .
Interactions between motivational , homeostatic and  self-regulatory कंट्रोल प्रक्रियाओं हैं शामिल  in eating behaviour , which is a key component in eating disorders .
The precise cause of eating disorders is not  entirely समझा  , but there is evidence that it may be linked to other medical conditions and situations .
Cultural idealization of thinness and youthfulness have contributed to eating disorders   affecting diverse populations .
One study showed that girls  साथ adhd have a वृहद मौका  of getting an eating disorder than those not affected by ADHD .
Another study suggested that women with PTSD , especially due to sexually related trauma  ,  are more likely to develop anorexia nervosa .
One study showed that foster girls are more  संभावित  to develop bulimia nervosa .
Some think that peer pressure and idealized body-types seen in the media are also a  significant फ़ैक्टर  .
Some research show that for certain people there are  जेनेटिक  reasons why they may be prone to developing an eating disorder .
Recent studies  have मिला प्रमाण  a correlation between patients with bulimia nervosa and substance use disorders .
In addition , anxiety disorders and personality disorders are  आम  occurrences with clients of eating disorders .
While proper treatment can be highly effective for many suffering from specific types of eating disorders , the consequences of eating disorders can be severe , including death ( whether from direct medical effects  of अशांत खाने आदतें or इससे comorbid  conditions such as suicidal thinking ) .
Slavery in  the संयुक्त राज्य existed इससे the जल्दी  years of the colonial period ; it was firmly established by the time the United States sought independence from Great Britain in 1776 .
However , by  1804  , all states north of the Mason and Dixon Line had either abolished slavery outright or passed laws for the gradual abolition of slavery .
In 1787 Congress prohibited slavery in the Northwest  territory  .
But slavery gained new life in the South with the cotton industry after 1800 , and  विस्तारित into the दक्षिणपश्चिम  .
The nation was polarized  into  slave and free states along the Mason-Dixon Line , which separated Pennsylvania and Maryland .
The United States and  ग्रेट ब्रिटेन  both prohibited the international slave trade in 1808 , but the domestic trade , with sales to the Deep South , expanded dramatically , and many captives were shipped by the coastwise slave trade .
Before the 1840s , the  दक्षिण थी  vigorously defending slavery and its expansion into the territories .
In the North some abolitionists  denounced it as गुनाहगार  , and numerous anti-slavery forces rejected it as detrimental to the rights of free men .
After failed compromises and Abraham Lincoln 's  चुनाव , in 1861 ग्यारह स्लेव  states broke away to form the Confederate States of America , leading to the American Civil War .
the संघीय सरकारी  in 1862 made abolition of slavery a war goal .
In January 1863 President Lincoln freed slaves in  the  Confederacy through the Emancipation Proclamation .
After the war , the Thirteenth Amendment , effective December 1865 , abolished slavery throughout the entire United States , including the Border states and the  भारतीय territories  .
From the 16th to  the 19th सदियां , an अनुमानित  12 million Africans were shipped as slaves to the Americas .
See Slavery in  the americas  .
The great majority  went to the  sugar plantations of the West Indies or Brazil , where mortality was high .
About  645,000 यहूद brought  to what is now the United States .
By the 1860 United States Census , the slave population in the American South had  grown to  four million .
Of all 1,515,605 families in the 15 slave states , nearly 400,000  आयोजित स्लेव ( roughly एक in चार ) , amounting  to 8 % of all American families .
While some slaves worked as house servants and urban artisans , the great majority worked on  बागानों or विशाल खेतो , cultivating  lucrative cash crops , such as rice , tobacco , sugar and , after 1800 , chiefly cotton .
By 1860 most  स्लेव यहूद  held in the Deep South , where they served in work-gangs ; two-thirds worked in cotton .
in छोटी परिचालन  , they worked with their owners .
In large plantations they were directed  by श्वेत सशुल्क overseers  .
Under the system that became chattel slavery ( ownership of a human being , and of  his/her वंशजों ) , a जातिगत तत्व थी आधारभूत : स्लेव यहूद  blacks of African descent and owned , almost universally , by whites of European descent .
In the 17th century , Virginia , followed by other southern colonies , enacted law that children of   slave mothers were born into slavery .
स्लेव could लाभ स्वतंत्रता तभी by कार्यशील दूर ( जिससे थी मुश्किल और illegal to do ) , or by manumission by स्वामी , जिससे थी regulated by राज्य , और became increasingly मुश्किल or निषिद्ध .
In the earliest era of chattel  गुलामी , the colonies  also organized work by a system of bonded labor known as indentured servitude .
This  typically lasted लिये अनेक सालो लिये दोनो  poor Europeans and Africans alike , to pay off the costs of transport to the colonies .
They contracted for such arrangements  क्युकी of ग़रीब  economies in their home countries .
Between 1680 and 1700 , as fewer  europeans migrated to the colonies  , planters began to import more Africans as slaves .
Recognizing the importance of slavery , the House of Burgesses in Virginia enacted a new slave code in 1705 ; it combined a variety of legislation and added new  प्रावधानों enforcing श्वेत सर्वोच्चता  in the law .
Schematic cross  खण्ड of भाग  of leaf , xylem shown as red circles at figure 8 .
Xylem is one of the two types of transport tissue in  vascular पौधे ( फ्लोएम is  the other ) .
The word xylem is derived from the Greek word ξύλον ( xylon ) , meaning `` wood '' ; the best-known xylem  ऊतक is लकडी , हालांकि it is  found throughout the plant .
Its basic function is to transport water , but it also transports some nutrients through   the plant .
This clock  प्रतिनिधित्व shows कुछ of  the major units of geological time and definitive events of Earth history .
The Hadean eon represents the time before  चट्टान रिकार्ड  of life on Earth ; its upper boundary is now regarded as 4.0 Ga ( billion years ago ) .
Other  subdivisions प्रतिबिंबित the एवोल्यूशन  of life ; the Archean and Proterozoic are both eons , the Palaeozoic , Mesozoic and Cenozoic are eras of the Phanerozoic eon .
The two million year Quaternary period , the time of recognizable humans , is too small to be  दृश्य  at this scale .
The geologic time scale is a system of chronological measurement that relates stratigraphy to time , and is used by geologists ,  paleontologists , और अन्य धरती वैज्ञानिकों  to describe the timing and relationships between events that have occurred throughout Earth 's history .
The table of geologic time spans presented here agrees with the dates and  नामकरण नियत forth by the अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Commission on Stratigraphy standard color codes of the International Commission on Stratigraphy .
Evidence from radiometric dating  indicates कि the  Earth is about 4.54 billion years old .
The geology or deep time of Earth 's past has been organized  into विभिन्न इकाई  according to events which took place in each period .
Different spans of time on the GTS are usually delimited by changes in the composition of   strata which correspond to them , indicating major geological or paleontological events , such as mass extinctions .
For example , the boundary between the Cretaceous period and the Paleogene period is  पारिभाषित by the cretaceous–paleogene extinction इवेंट  , which marked the demise of the dinosaurs and many other groups of life .
Older time spans which predate the reliable fossil record ( before the Proterozoic Eon ) are  पारिभाषित by निरपेक्ष  age .
The TI-82 is a graphing  परिपथ  made by Texas Instruments .
The TI-82 was designed in 1993 as a stripped down , more user friendly version of  the ti-85  , and as a replacement for the TI-81 .
It was the direct predecessor of the  ti-83  .
It shares  साथ the ti-85  a 6 MHz Zilog Z80 microprocessor .
Like the TI-81 , the TI-82 features a 96x64 pixel display , and the core feature set of the TI-81 with many new  सुविधाएँ  .
The cast of characters of  the किंग of  Fighters XI .
The King of Fighters fighting game series , produced by SNK Playmore , includes a wide cast of characters , some of which are taken from other  snk खेल  .
The story takes place in a fictional universe  in  which an annual series of 3-on-3 or 4-on-4 fighting tournaments are held .
The first game in the series introduces the initial main character of the series , Kyo Kusanagi , a young Japanese fighter who is the heir to a powerful group of martial  कलाकारों  having pyrokinetic abilities .
Kyo fights against   the Kusanagi clan 's enemies , his rival Iori Yagami , and the god Orochi and its human followers , among others .
The first four games in the series revolve about these fights , while The King of Fighters '99 introduces a new story arc , revolving around K ' , a young man who seeks to destroy the mysterious NESTS organization because they kidnapped him at an early age and stripped him  of उसके पास्ट यादें , so कि वे could फ़ोर्स  him to be a fighter under their control .
In The King of Fighters 2003 , a new character named Ash Crimson enters the tournament , to steal the powers of the clans who sealed the Orochi in  the पास्ट लिये an अनजान  reason .
A new group of antagonists , known as Those From the Past , also appears in the series ; they want to obtain Orochi 's power for the purpose of giving it to  उनके  unknown master .
The plot and the characters came from  the yamata  no Orochi legend .
There are also several characters in the games that are parodies or  homages to अनेक लोकप्रिय  anime , manga , and films .
Merchandise based on  the वर्ण  has also been released , including action figures and keychains .
The characters have garnered praise from several video game publications for the  विशेषता  of their designs and movesets .
Comments focused on the lack of improvements in some of the characters , but  added कि  the roster is greatly diverse .
Whale Wars is a weekly American documentary-style reality television series  कि premiered on नवम्बर 7 , 2008  on the Animal Planet cable channel .
The program follows Paul Watson , founder of the Sea Shepherd Conservation Society , as he and the crew  सवार उनके  various vessels harass Japanese whalers off the coast of Antarctica .
On January 5 , 2013 , Animal  ग्रह नवीनीकृत the श्रेणी  for a sixth season .
The Harpy Eagle ( Harpia harpyja ) is a  neotropical प्रजाति  of eagle .
It is sometimes known as the American Harpy Eagle to distinguish it from the Papuan Eagle which is sometimes known as  the नई गिनी  Harpy Eagle or Papuan Harpy Eagle .
It is the largest and most powerful raptor found in the Americas , and among the largest extant species of  ईगल्स in the संसार  .
It usually inhabits tropical lowland rainforests in the upper ( emergent )  canopy  layer .
Destruction of its natural habitat has seen it vanish from many parts of its former range , and it is nearly extirpated in Central  अमेरिका  .
Biological classification , or scientific classification in biology , is a method of scientific  taxonomy used to group and  categorize organisms into groups such as genus or species .
These groups are known as taxa ( singular :  टैक्सोन  ) .
Modern biological  वर्गीकरण रै इसके रूट in  the work of Carolus Linnaeus , who grouped species according to shared physical characteristics .
These groupings have since been revised to improve consistency with the Darwinian  principle of आम  descent .
With the introduction of the cladistic method in the late 20th century , phylogenetic taxonomy in which organisms are grouped based purely on inferred evolutionary  relatedness ,  ignoring morphological similarity , has become common in some areas of biology .
Molecular phylogenetics , which uses DNA sequences as data , has also driven many  हाल revisions और is संभावित  to continue doing so .
biological वर्गीकरण belongs  to the science of biological systematics .
Lennon 's  हस्ताक्षर
John Winston Ono Lennon , ( born John Winston Lennon ; 9 October 1940 – 8 December 1980 ) was an English musician , singer and songwriter who rose to worldwide fame as a founder member of  the बीटल्स  , one of the most commercially successful and critically acclaimed acts in the history of popular music .
साथ पॉल mccartney  , he formed one of the most celebrated songwriting partnerships of the 20th century .
Born and raised in Liverpool , as a teenager Lennon became involved in the skiffle craze ; his first band , the Quarrymen , evolved  into the बीटल्स  in 1960 .
As the group disintegrated towards the end of the decade , Lennon embarked on a solo career  कि उत्पादित the critically acclaimed  albums John Lennon/Plastic Ono Band and Imagine , and iconic songs such as `` Give Peace a Chance `` and `` Imagine `` .
After his marriage to Yoko Ono in 1969 , he changed his  नाम to जॉन  Ono Lennon .
Lennon disengaged himself from the music business in 1975 to devote time to  उठाने उसके शिशु  son Sean , but re-emerged with Ono in 1980 with the new album Double Fantasy .
He was murdered three  सप्ताह बाद  its release .
Lennon revealed a rebellious  प्रकृति और acerbic wit in उसके  music , writing , drawings , on film and in interviews .
Controversial through his political and peace activism , he moved to New York City in 1971 , where his criticism of the Vietnam War  resulted in a lengthy attempt by रिचर्ड निक्सन 's  administration to deport him , while some of his songs were adopted as anthems by the anti-war movement .
As of 2012 , Lennon 's solo album sales in the United States exceed 14 million units , and as writer , co-writer or performer ,  he is जिम्मेदार लिये 25 number-one singles on the us hot 100  chart .
In 2002 , a BBC poll on the 100 Greatest Britons voted him eighth , and in 2008 , Rolling Stone ranked  उसे the fifth-greatest सिंगर  of all time .
He was  मरणोपरांत inducted into the songwriters हॉल  of Fame in 1987 and into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 1994 .
Statue of Rip van Winkle in Irvington  , नई  York , not far from `` Sunnyside `` , the home of Washington Irving
``  rip वैन winkle '' is a छोटी  story by American author Washington Irving published in 1819 , as well as the name of the story 's fictional protagonist .
Written while Irving was living in Birmingham , England , it was part of a collection   entitled The Sketch Book of Geoffrey Crayon .
हालांकि the स्टोरी is नियत in नई यॉर्क  's Catskill Mountains , Irving later admitted , `` When I wrote the story , I had never been on the Catskills . ''
Throughout the fifty-five year history of the Grammy Awards , many  significant  records have been set .
This page only includes  the प्रतिस्पर्धी पुरस्कार  won by various artists .
This does not include the various  खास पुरस्कार कि हैं प्रस्तुत by the  National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences such as Lifetime Achievement Awards , Trustees Awards , Technical Awards or Legend Awards .
The page however does include other non-performance related Grammys ( known as the Craft & Production Fields ) that may have been presented to the artist  (  s ) .
Pee-wee Herman is a comic fictional  अक्षर निर्मित  and portrayed by American comedian Paul Reubens .
He is  बेहतरीन  known for his two television series and film series during the 1980s .
The childlike Pee-wee Herman character developed as a stage act that quickly  led  to an HBO special in 1981 .
As the stage performance gained further  लोकप्रियता , reubens took the  character to motion picture with Pee-wee 's Big Adventure in 1985 , toning down the adult innuendo for the appeal of children .
This paved the way for Pee-wee 's Playhouse , an Emmy Award winning  children 's श्रेणी  that ran on CBS from 1986-1991 .
another फिल्मी , बिग  Top Pee-wee , was released in 1988 .
Due to negative media attention following a scandal in 1991 , Reubens decided to  shelve उसके  alter ego during the 1990s , and then gradually resurrected it during the following decade .
It was at that time that Reubens addressed plans to write a new Pee-wee film ,  pee-wee 's playhouse  : The Movie .
In June  2007 , reubens  appeared as Pee-wee Herman for the first time since 1991 at Spike TV 's Guys ' Choice Awards .
That '70s Show is an American television period sitcom that centers on the lives of a group of teenage friends living in the fictional suburban town of Point  प्लेस , विस्कॉन्सिन , इससे may 17 , 1976 , to दिसम्बर 31 , 1979  .
It debuted on the Fox  टेलीविज़न संजाल , पहला airing  on August 23 , 1998 , running for eight consecutive seasons , and concluding with the 200th episode on May 18 , 2006 .
The main teenage cast members were  topher  Grace , Mila Kunis , Ashton Kutcher , Danny Masterson , Laura Prepon , and Wilmer Valderrama .
The main adult cast members were Debra Jo Rupp , Kurtwood Smith , Don Stark and , during the  पहला तीन  seasons , Tanya Roberts .
Kansas ( ) is a U.S. state  स्तिथ in the  Midwestern United States .
It is named after the Kansas River  which  flows through it , which in turn was named after the Kansa Native American tribe , which inhabited the area .
The tribe 's name ( natively kką : ze ) is often said to mean `` people of the wind '' or `` people  of the  south wind , '' although this was probably not the term 's original meaning .
Residents of Kansas  हैं  called `` Kansans . ''
For  हज़ारों  of years what is now Kansas was home to numerous and diverse Native American tribes .
Tribes in the Eastern part of   the state generally lived in villages along the river valleys .
Tribes in the Western part of the state were semi-  nomadic और hunted  large herds of bison .
Kansas was first settled by European Americans in the 1830s  , लकिन the pace of उपनिवेश  accelerated in the 1850s , in the midst of political wars over the slavery issue .
When officially opened to settlement by the U.S. government in 1854 , abolitionist Free-Staters from New England and pro-slavery settlers from neighboring Missouri rushed to the territory to determine if Kansas  would become a free  state or a slave state .
Thus , the area was a hotbed of violence  और अराजकता  in its early days as these forces collided , and was known as Bleeding Kansas .
The abolitionists eventually prevailed and on January 29 ,  1861 , कान्सास डाला  the Union as a free state .
After the Civil War , the population of Kansas grew rapidly , when waves of  आप्रवासियों turned  the prairie into farmland .
Today , Kansas is one of the most productive agricultural states ,  producing ऊँची yields  of wheat , sorghum and sunflowers .
Kansas is the 15th most extensive and the 33rd most populous of the 50  संयुक्त राज्य  .
Psychology is an academic and applied discipline that involves the scientific study of mental functions  और व्यवहार .
Psychology has the immediate goal of understanding individuals and groups by both establishing general principles and researching specific cases , and by many accounts it  ultimately aims to  benefit society .
In this field , a professional or researcher is called a psychologist and can be classified as a social ,  behavioral , or संज्ञानात्मक  scientist .
Psychologists attempt to understand  the भूमिका of दिमागी कृत्यों  in individual and social behavior , while also exploring the physiological and neurobiological processes that underlie certain cognitive functions and behaviors .
Psychologists explore concepts such as perception , cognition , attention , emotion , phenomenology , motivation , brain functioning , personality , behavior  , और interpersonal संबंध  .
Psychologists of diverse  धारियाँ भी  consider the unconscious mind .
Psychologists employ empirical methods to infer causal and  correlational संबंध between psychosocial  variables .
In addition , or in opposition , to employing empirical and deductive methods , some—especially clinical and counseling  psychologists—at टाइम्स rely upon सांकेतिक निर्वचन  and other inductive techniques .
Psychology has been described as a `` hub science '' , with psychological findings linking to research and perspectives from the social sciences , natural sciences ,  आयुर्विज्ञान , और  the humanities , such as philosophy .
While psychological knowledge is often applied to the assessment and treatment of mental health problems , it is also directed towards understanding and solving problems in many  अलग  spheres of human activity .
The majority of psychologists are involved in some kind of therapeutic role ,  practicing in  clinical , counseling , or school settings .
Many do scientific research on a wide range of topics related to mental processes and behavior , and typically work in university psychology departments or teach in other academic settings ( e.g. , medical  schools ,  hospitals ) .
Some are employed in  औद्योगिक और organizational जमावट , or in अन्य  areas such as human development and aging , sports , health , and the media , as well as in forensic investigation and other aspects of law .
Thomas Jefferson ( April 13 , 1743 ( April 2 , 1743 O.S. ) – July 4 , 1826 ) was an American Founding Father , the  प्रिंसिपल  author of the Declaration of Independence ( 1776 ) and the third President of the United States ( 1801–1809 ) .
At the beginning of the American Revolution , he served in the Continental Congress , representing Virginia and then served as a wartime Governor of Virginia (  1779–1781  ) .
Just after the war ended  , इससे mid-1784  Jefferson served as a diplomat , stationed in Paris .
In May 1785 , he became the United  राज्य मंत्री to  France .
Jefferson was the first United States  सचिव of राज्य  ( 1790–1793 ) serving under President George Washington .
साथ उसके बंद dost जेम्स मैडिसन he व्यवस्थित the democratic-republican पार्टी , और subsequently resigned इससे वॉशिंगटन 's कैबिनेट  .
Elected Vice President in 1796 , when he came in second to John Adams of the Federalists , Jefferson opposed Adams and with Madison secretly wrote the Kentucky and Virginia Resolutions , which  attempted to nullify  the Alien and Sedition Acts .
Elected president in what Jefferson called the Revolution of 1800 , he oversaw the purchase of the vast Louisiana Territory from France ( 1803  ) , और भेजा the लुईस और क्लार्क expedition ( 1804–1806  ) to explore the new west .
His second term was beset with troubles at home , such as the failed treason trial  of उसके पूर्व वाइस अध्यक्ष आरोन  Burr .
With  escalating ट्रबल साथ ब्रिटेन जो थी चुनौतीपूर्ण  American neutrality and threatening shipping at sea , he tried economic warfare with his embargo laws which only damaged American trade .
In 1803 , President Jefferson initiated a process of Indian tribal removal and relocation to the  louisiana territory वेस्ट of the मिसिसिपी  River , in order to open lands for eventual American settlers .
A leader in the Enlightenment , Jefferson was a polymath who spoke five languages  धड़ल्ले और थी deeply दिलचस्पी in विज्ञान , आविष्कार , वास्तुकला , धर्म और  philosophy , interests that led him to the founding of the University of Virginia after his presidency .
He designed his own large mansion on a 5,000 acre plantation near Charlottesville , Virginia , which he named   Monticello .
While not a notable orator , Jefferson was a skilled writer and corresponded with many influential  लोगों  in America and Europe throughout his adult life .
Though Jefferson owned many slaves , he opposed the institution all his life and consequently treated and  took परवाह of उन्हें बहुत खूब  and expected them to work no more than free farmers .
Since 1802 historians and others have been divided over the controversy of whether Jefferson  थी  the father of one or more children belonging to Sally Hemings , a slave at Monticello . ''
Historians are also in disagreement with how much Jefferson  थी  committed to the anti-slavery cause .
In 1807 , President Jefferson  हस्ताक्षरित into विधि a विधेयक  that banned the importation of slaves into the United States .
After Martha Jefferson , his wife of eleven years , died in 1782 , Jefferson  remained a विधुर लिये the  rest of his life ; their marriage produced six children , of whom two survived to adulthood .
Though Jefferson has been criticized by many modern day scholars over the issue of  गुलामी , he remains रेटेड as एक of the महानतम  U.S. presidents .
`` Sun City '' is a 1985 protest song written by Steven Van Zandt , produced by Van Zandt and Arthur Baker and recorded by Artists United Against Apartheid  to convey विपक्ष to  the South African policy of apartheid .
The primary means of that opposition is to declare that all the artists involved would refuse any and all offers to perform at Sun City , a resort which was located in Bantustan of Bophuthatswana , one of a number of internationally unrecognized  supposed ``  independent '' states created by the South African government to forcibly relocate its black population .
This page is a list of characters in the Police  अकादमी  film and television series .
Bill Russell won 11 championships  with the  Boston Celtics .
This is a list of NBA players with most  championships जीती as  a player .
The National  बास्केट संघ  ( NBA ) is a major professional basketball league in North America .
It was founded in 1946 as the Basketball  संघ of  America ( BAA ) .
The league adopted its current name at the start of the when it merged with  the नेशनल बास्केट लीग  ( NBL ) .
The NBA Finals is the championship series for  the एनबीए  and the conclusion of the sport 's postseason .
The winning team of the series  receives  the Larry O'Brien Championship Trophy .
Players from the winning team usually receive championship rings from the team  honoring उनके योगदान  .
However  , in कुछ विरल अवसर , the टीमों  opted to gave other commemorative items , such as wrist watches , instead of rings .
The number  of championships  won by NBA superstars is often used as a measurement of their greatness .
Boston Celtics center Bill Russell holds  the रिकार्ड लिये the सबसे एनबीए championships  won with 11 titles during his 13-year playing career .
He won his first championship with the Boston Celtics  in उसके रुकी  year .
Afterwards , he went on to win 10 championships in  the  next 12 years , including eight consecutive championships from 1959 to 1966 .
He won the last two championships in 1968  और 1969 as  player-coach .
Russell 's teammate , Sam Jones , won 10 championships from 1959 to 1969 , the  दूसरी सबसे in  NBA history .
Four  सेल्टिक्स खिलाड़ी , tom  Heinsohn , K. C. Jones , Satch Sanders and John Havlicek , won eight championships each .
Two other  सेल्टिक्स , जिम loscutoff और फ़्रैंक  Ramsey , won seven championships each .
Four players , Bob Cousy , Kareem Abdul-Jabbar , Michael Jordan and  scottie pippen , जीती  six championships each .
Jordan and Pippen are members of the Chicago Bulls  टोली जो  won three consecutive championships twice in the 1990s .
Robert Horry and John Salley are the only players to have won the championships  साथ तीन  different teams .
Horry won seven championships with the Houston Rockets , the Los Angeles  लेकर्स और  the San Antonio Spurs , while Salley won four championships with the Detroit Pistons , the Bulls and the Lakers .
फ़्रैंक शाऊल और स्टीव  Kerr are the only players to win two championships with two different teams in consecutive seasons .
Saul won consecutive championships with the Rochester Royals and the  मिनियापोलिस लेकर्स in  the 1950s , while Kerr won consecutive championships with the Bulls and the Spurs in the 1990s,
Accuracy indicates proximity of measurement results to the true value , precision to the repeatability ,  or reproducibility of the  measurement
In the fields of science , engineering , industry , and statistics , the accuracy of a measurement system is the degree of closeness   of measurements of a quantity to that quantity 's actual ( true ) value .
The precision of a measurement system , also called reproducibility or repeatability , is the degree  to जिससे दोहराया माप  under unchanged conditions show the same results .
Although the two words  reproducibility और repeatability can be  synonymous in colloquial use , they are deliberately contrasted in the context of the scientific method .
A measurement system can be accurate but not precise , precise but not accurate ,  neither  , or both .
For example , if an experiment contains a systematic error , then increasing the sample  आकार generally increases परिशुद्धता लकिन करता नहीं  improve accuracy .
the परिणाम होता  be a consistent yet inaccurate string of results from the flawed experiment .
Eliminating the systematic error improves accuracy but does  नहीं बदलें  precision .
A  मापन प्रणाली  is designated valid if it is both accurate and precise .
Related terms include bias ( non- random or directed effects caused by a factor or factors unrelated to the independent variable )  और गलती ( यादृच्छिक  variability ) .
The  शब्दावली is भी लागू to अप्रत्यक्ष  measurements—that is , values obtained by a computational procedure from observed data .
in जोड  to accuracy and precision , measurements may also have a measurement resolution , which is the smallest change in the underlying physical quantity that produces a response in the measurement .
In the case of full reproducibility , such as when rounding a number to a representable floating point number  , the शब्द परिशुद्धता  has a meaning not related to reproducibility .
For example , in the IEEE 754-2008  मानक it अर्थात् the क्रमांक  of bits in the significand , so it is used as a measure for the relative accuracy with which an arbitrary number can be represented .
Fuck in its literal meaning refers to the act of sexual  मैथुन  .
It is an English word that is often used as a profanity , either to denote  तिरस्कार or as an intensifier  .
the  origin of the word is obscure .
It is usually considered to be first  attested to around  1475 , but it may be considerably older .
In modern usage , fuck and its derivatives ( such as fucker and fucking ) can be used in the position of a noun , a  क्रिया , an क्रियाशील  or an adverb .
There are many common phrases which make use of the word , as well as a number  of यौगिकों  incorporating it , such as motherfucker .
Animated , color-coded map  प्रर्दशित the विभिन्न  continents and regions .
Depending on the convention and model , some continents may be consolidated or subdivided : for example , Eurasia is most often subdivided into Europe and Asia ( red shades ) , while North and South America are sometimes recognized as one  अमरीकी महाद्वीप ( ग्रीन  shades ) .
A continent is one of  अनेक बहुत विशाल  landmasses on Earth .
They are generally identified by convention rather than any strict criteria , with up to seven regions commonly regarded as continents—they are ( from largest  in आकार to smallest ) : एशिया , अफ़्रीकी , उत्तर अमेरिका , दक्षिण  America , Antarctica , Europe , and Australia .
In geology , continents  हैं वर्णित  by means of tectonic plates .
Plate tectonics is the process and study of the  गति , टक्कर  and division of continents , earlier known as continental drift .
Biker Boyz is a 2003 film  परिचय a  group of underground motorcycle drag racers .
It stars Laurence Fishburne , Djimon Hounsou , Derek Luke ,  meagan शुभ , और  Larenz Tate and is written and directed by Reggie Rock Bythewood .
It also features Lisa   Bonet , Orlando Jones , Kid Rock and Vanessa Bell Calloway .
For the Steel  पैंथर सोंग  , see Feel the Steel .
Community property is a marital property regime that originated in civil law jurisdictions and is now  भी मिला in कुछ आम  law jurisdictions .
the राज्य of the संयुक्त  States that recognize community property are primarily in the West ; it was inherited from Mexico 's ganancial community system , which itself was inherited from Spanish law ( a Roman -derived civil law system ) and ultimately from the Visigoths .
While under  स्पेनी नियम louisiana अपनाया the ganancial  community system of acquests and gains , which replaced the traditional French community of movables and acquests in its civil law system .
Map  of the  United States with community property states highlighted in red .
In addition to the highlighted states , Alaska is a separate property state that permits couples  to ऑप्ट into a जातियाँ  property arrangement .
In a community property jurisdiction , most property acquired during the marriage ( except for gifts or inheritances ) —the  जातियाँ , or  communio bonorum—is owned jointly by both spouses and is divided upon divorce , annulment or death .
Joint ownership is automatically presumed by law in the absence of specific evidence that would point to a contrary  निष्कर्ष लिये a particular टुकड़ा of प्रॉपर्टी  .
Division of community property may take place by item , by splitting all  वस्तुएं or by मान  .
In some jurisdictions , such as California , a 50/50 division of community property is strictly mandated by statute , meaning that the focus then  शिफ्ट to whether particular वस्तुएं हैं to be  classified as community or separate property .
In other jurisdictions , such as  टेक्सास , a तलाक अदालत may डिक्री  an `` equitable distribution `` of community property , which may result in an unequal division of such .
In non-community property states  प्रॉपर्टी  may be divided by equitable distribution .
Generally speaking , the property  कि प्रत्येक संगी  brings into the marriage or receives by gift , bequest or devise during marriage is called separate property ( i.e. , not community property ) .
See  प्रभाग of  property .
Division of community debts may not be the  वही  as division of community property .
For example , in California , community property is required to be divided `` equally  '' जबकि जातियाँ  debt is required to be divided `` equitably '' .
Property that is owned by one spouse before the marriage  is the पृथक प्रॉपर्टी  of that spouse , unless the property is `` transmuted '' into community property .
The rules for this vary from  क्षेत्राधिकार to  jurisdiction .
The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge waving to the crowd at The Mall shortly after the  विवाह  .
The wedding of Prince William , Duke of Cambridge , and  कैथरीन  Middleton took place on 29 April 2011 at Westminster Abbey in London .
The groom , Prince William , Duke of Cambridge , is the eldest son of Charles , Prince of Wales , and is second in  the लकीर of उत्तराधिकार to the अंग्रेजों सिंहासन  and the thrones of fifteen other Commonwealth realms .
The bride , Catherine `` Kate '' Middleton is the eldest of three children of  माइकल और carole  Middleton of Bucklebury , Berkshire .
The Dean of Westminster , John Hall , presided at the service ; the Archbishop of Canterbury , Rowan Williams , conducted the marriage ; Richard Chartres , the Bishop of London  , preached the उपदेश ; और a पढना  was given by the bride 's brother , James .
William 's best man was his brother , Prince Harry , while the bride 's sister , Pippa , was maid  of इज्ज़त  .
The ceremony was attended by the bride 's and groom 's families , as well as many foreign royals , diplomats , and the couple 's  चुनी निजी  guests .
After the ceremony , the  युगल बना  the traditional appearance on the balcony of Buckingham Palace .
As Prince William was not the heir apparent to  the सिंहासन , the विवाह  was not a full state occasion and many details were left to the couple to decide , such as much of the guest list of about 1,900 .
Prince William and Kate  मिडलटन मिले in  2001 .
Their  सगाई  on 20 October 2010 was announced on 16 November 2010 .
The build-up to the wedding and the occasion itself attracted much media  ध्यान , होने  compared in many ways with the 1981 marriage of William 's parents .
The occasion was a public holiday in the United Kingdom and featured many ceremonial aspects , including use of the state carriages and roles for the Foot Guards and  household प्यादे  .
Events were held around the Commonwealth to mark the wedding ; organisations and hotels held events across  कनाडा , over 5,000 गली  parties were held throughout the United Kingdom , and one million people lined the route between Westminster Abbey and Buckingham Palace .
The ceremony was viewed live by tens of millions more around the world , including 72 million  on the youtube royal चैनल  .
In the United Kingdom , television  ऑडियंस  peaked at 26.3 million viewers , with a total of 36.7 million watching part of the coverage .
Vanessa Joy Lachey ( née Minnillo ; born November 9 , 1980 ) is an American television personality ,  टेलीविज़न मेजबान ,  fashion model , and actress .
Minnillo was  भी नामित  Miss Teen USA in 1998 .
She has been a New York -based correspondent for Entertainment Tonight  और hosted कुल निवेदन  Live on MTV .
A hand ( med . / lat . : manus , pl . manūs ) is a  prehensile  , multi- fingered extremity located at the end of an arm or forelimb of primates and humans , chimpanzees , monkeys , and lemurs .
A few other vertebrates such as the koala ( which has two opposable thumbs on each `` hand '' and  फिंगरप्रिंट remarkably समान to इंसान फिंगरप्रिंट )  are often described as having either `` hands '' or `` paws '' on their front limbs .
Hands are the main structures for physically manipulating the environment , used for both gross motor skills ( such as  grasping a विशाल ऑब्जेक्ट ) और ठीक  motor skills ( such as picking up a small pebble ) .
The fingertips contain some of the densest areas of nerve endings on the body , are the richest source of tactile feedback , and have the greatest positioning capability  of the देह ; यूँ the भाव of टच is intimately  associated with hands .
जैसे अन्य युग्म अंगों ( आँखें , फीट , टाँगे ) , प्रत्येक  hand is dominantly controlled by the opposing brain hemisphere , so that handedness , or the preferred hand choice for single-handed activities such as writing with a pencil , reflects individual brain functioning .
Some evolutionary anatomists use the term hand to refer to the  appendage  of digits on the forelimb more generally — for example , in the context of whether the three digits of the bird hand involved the same homologous loss of two digits as in the dinosaur hand .
The human hand has 27  हड्डियों , नहीं सहित  the sesamoid bones which number varies between people .
14 of which are the phalanges ( proximal ,  इंटरमीडिएट और  distal ) of the fingers .
The  metacarpals हैं  the bones that connects the fingers and the wrist .
Each human hand has 5 metacarpals and  8 carpal हड्डियों  .
Too Cool was a professional wrestling tag team and  पूर्व गुट सबसे notably क्रियाशील in संसार  Wrestling Federation/Entertainment between 1998 and 2001 and for a short time in 2004 .
Basic digital alarm clock without a  रेडियो  .
The mark in the top-left of the display indicates  कि the समय is 4:00pm , नहीं  4:00am .
A 1969 radio  सचेतक क्लॉक ( सोनी digimatic  8FC-59W ) with an early mechanical-digital display .
A digital clock is  a प्रकार of क्लॉक कि प्रदर्शक the समय डिजिटली ,  i.e . in numerals or other symbols , as opposed to an analog clock , where the time is indicated by the positions of rotating hands .
Digital clocks are often associated with electronic drives , but the `` digital ''  वर्णन refers तभी to  the display , not to the drive mechanism .
( Both analog and digital clocks can be driven either  mechanically  or electronically , but `` clockwork '' mechanisms with digital displays are rare . )
The biggest digital clock is the Lichtzeitpegel ( `` Light Time Level '' ) on the television tower Rheinturm  düsseldorf  , Germany .
Family Guy creator Seth MacFarlane also provides the  आवाज़ें of पीटर griffin , stewie griffin  , Brian Griffin , and Glenn Quagmire .
Family Guy is an  अमरीकी एनिमेटेड  sitcom that features five main voice actors , and numerous regular cast and recurring guest stars .
The principal voice cast  consists of दिखाएँ निर्माता सेठ macfarlane ,  Alex Borstein , Seth Green , Mila Kunis ( who replaced Lacey Chabert after the first season ) and Mike Henry and now , the new actor Beau Osborne .
Recurring voice actors include Patrick  warburton , आदम  West , John G. Brennan , Nicole Sullivan and Jennifer Tilly , and repeat guest stars include Phyllis Diller , Charles Durning , Rush Limbaugh , and Phil LaMarr .
Many cast members  provide आवाज़ें  for multiple characters .
The voice actors , in portraying the various character personalities on  the दिखाएँ  , draw inspiration from celebrities and pop culture .
Family Guy characters have  महरूम निभाई by अधिक  than one actor , after members of the show left the series or had conflicting obligations .
Kunis was nominated for an Annie Award for voicing Meg Griffin in the  ऋतु 5 एपीसोड `` मुश्किल विधिक  `` and MacFarlane has also won an Emmy Award for Outstanding Voice-Over Performance and an Annie Award for Best Voice Acting in an Animated Television Production , though no other cast member has won an award for their work on the series .
The five sets of the board game  एकाधिकार चित्रित यहाँ दिखाएँ  the evolution of the game 's artwork and designs in the United States from 1935–2005 .
The history of the board game Monopoly can be traced back to the early 20th century   .
The  earliest ज्ञात डिज़ाइन थी  by the American , Elizabeth Magie , patented in 1904 but existing as early as 1902 .
Magie 's original intent was to publish a board game to illustrate an economic principle  , namely the georgist  concept of a single land value tax .
A series of board games were developed from 1906 through the 1930s that involved the buying and selling of land and the development  of  that land .
By 1934 , a board  खेल था महरूम निर्मित much जैसे  the version of Monopoly sold by Parker Brothers and its related companies through the rest of the 20th century , and into the 21st .
Several people , mostly in the  midwestern संयुक्त राज्य और  near the East Coast , contributed to the game 's design and evolution .
By the 1970s , the idea that the game had been created solely by Charles Darrow had become popular folklore ; it was printed in the game 's instructions for many years ,  in a 1974 किताब devoted to एकाधिकार , और थी cited in a सामान्य  book about toys even as recently as 2007 .
Even a guide to family games published for Reader 's Digest in 2003 only gave credit to Darrow and Elizabeth Magie ,  erroneously stating कि  Magie 's original game was created in the 1800s , and not acknowledging any of the game 's development between Magie 's creation of the game , and the eventual publication by Parker Brothers .
Also in the 1970s , Professor Ralph Anspach , who had himself published a board game intended to illustrate the principles of both monopolies and trust busting , fought Parker Brothers and its  तब जनक कम्पनी , सामान्य मिलों , over  the trademarks of the Monopoly board game .
Through the research of  anspach और अन्य  , much of the early history of the game was `` rediscovered '' .
Anspach confronted Maxine Brady , author of the  1974 किताब the एकाधिकार किताब : रणनीति  and Tactics of the World 's Most Popular Game over the actual history of the game on Barry Farber 's New York City talk show in 1975 .
Because of  the lengthy अदालत प्रक्रम , सहित  appeals , the legal status of Parker Brothers ' trademarks on the game was not settled until 1985 .
The game 's name remains a  पंजीकृत ट्रेडमार्क of  Parker Brothers , as do its specific design elements .
At the conclusion of the court case , the game 's logo and  ग्राफिक डिज़ाइन तत्व became भाग of a larger  Monopoly brand , licensed by Parker Brothers ' parent companies onto a variety of items through the present day .
Despite the `` rediscovery '' of the board game 's early history in the 1970s and 1980s , and several books and journal articles on the subject , Hasbro ( Parker  Brothers ' current  parent company ) did not acknowledge any of the game 's history before Charles Darrow on its official Monopoly website as recently as June 2012 .
Nor did  हास्ब्रो acknowledge  anyone other than Darrow in materials published or sponsored by them , at least as recently as 2006 .
अंतरराष्ट्रीय  tournaments , first held in the early 1970s , continue to the present , with the next world championship likely scheduled for 2013 .
Starting in 1985 , a new  पीढी  of spin-off board games and card games appeared on both sides of the Atlantic Ocean .
In 1989 , the first of many video game and  कंप्यूटर  game editions was published .
Since 1994 , many official variants of the game , based on locations other than Atlantic City , New Jersey ( the official U.S. setting ) or London ( the official Commonwealth setting , excepting Canada ) , have been  प्रकाशित by हास्ब्रो  or its licensees .
In 2008 , Hasbro permanently changed the color scheme and some of the gameplay of the standard U.S . Edition of the game to match the UK Edition , although the  u.S. मानक संस्करण maintains the अटलांटिक  City property names .
Hasbro also modified the official logo to give the `` Mr . Monopoly '' character a 3-D computer-generated look , which has since  महरूम अपनाया by licensees  USAopoly , Winning Moves and Winning Solutions .
And Hasbro has also been including the Speed Die , introduced in 2006 's Monopoly : The Mega Edition by Winning Moves Games , in versions produced  सीधे by हास्ब्रो ( ऐसे  as the 2009 Championship Edition ) .
In baseball , a sacrifice fly is a batted ball that  satisfies चार  criteria:
There are fewer than two   outs when the ball is hit .
The ball is hit to the outfield ( fair or foul ) , or to  infield बेईमानी  territory .
The batter is put out because an outfielder ( or an infielder running in the outfield , or foul territory ) catches the ball on the  मक्खी  ( alternatively if the batter would have been out if not for an error or if the outfielder drops the ball and another runner is put out ) .
A runner who is  already on आधार स्कोर  on the play .
It  is पुकारा a `` बलिदान '' मक्खी क्युकी the बैटर presumably intends to कारण a teammate to स्कोर a चलाएं , जबकि sacrificing उसके अपना क्षमता to do so .
Minnesota  (  ) is a U.S. state located in the Midwestern United States .
Minnesota was carved out of the eastern half of the  मिनेसोटा territory  and admitted to the Union as the 32nd state on May 11 , 1858 .
Known as the `` Land of 10,000 Lakes '' , the state 's name  आता  from a Dakota word for `` sky-tinted water '' .
Those waters ,  साथ साथ  forests , parks , and wilderness areas , offer residents and tourists a variety of outdoor recreational opportunities .
Minnesota is the 12th most extensive and the 21st most populous of the U.S. states  .
nearly 60 % of इसके निवासियों सजीव in the minneapolis–saint  Paul metropolitan area ( known as the `` Twin Cities '' ) , the center of transportation , business , industry , education , government and home to an internationally known arts community .
The remainder of the state consists of western prairies now given over to intensive agriculture ; deciduous forests in the southeast , now  साफ , farmed और settled ; और the कम  populated North Woods , used for mining , forestry , and recreation .
Minnesota is known for its relatively mixed social and political  orientations  , and has a high rate of civic participation and voter turnout .
Minnesota ranks among the healthiest states , and has a  highly  literate population .
The large majority of residents are of  scandinavian और जर्मनी  descent .
The state is known as a center of  scandinavian  American culture .
Ethnic diversity has  increased in हाल  decades .
Substantial  influxes of Asian , African  , and Latin American immigrants have joined the descendants of European settlers and the original Native American inhabitants .
Grants are non-repayable funds by one party ( grant makers ) , often a government department , corporation , foundation or trust , to a , often ( but not always ) a nonprofit entity , educational institution , business  or an व्यक्तिगत  .
In order to receive a grant ,  कुछ रूप of `` ग्रान्ट लिखने  '' often referred to as either a proposal or an application is usually required .
Most grants are  बना to  fund a specific project and require some level of compliance and reporting .
The grant writing process involves an applicant submitting a proposal ( or submission ) to a potential funder  , either on the आवेदक 's  own initiative or in response to a Request for Proposal from the funder .
Other grants can be given to individuals , such as victims of natural  आपदाओं or individuals जो  seek to open a small business .
Sometimes grant makers require grant seekers to have some form of tax-exempt  औकात , be a  registered nonprofit organization or a local government .
For example , tiered funding for  a फ्रीवे  are very large grants negotiated at government policy level .
However smaller grants may be provided by a government  एजेंसी ( e.g  . municipal government ) .
Project-related  funding involving सरकारें  , business , communities , and individuals is often arranged by application either in writing or online .
Naturally occurring cobalt ( Co ) is composed of 1 stable isotope , 59Co . 28 radioisotopes have been characterized with the most stable being 60Co with a  half-life of 5.2714 सालो , 57co साथ  a half-life of 271.79 days , 56Co with a half-life of 77.27 days , and 58Co with a half-life of 70.86 days .
All of the remaining radioactive isotopes have half-lives that are less than 18 hours and the majority of these have  half-lives कि हैं कम  than 1 second .
This element also has 11 meta  राज्य , सब of जिससे  have half-lives less than 15 minutes .
The isotopes of cobalt  दायरा  in atomic weight from 47Co to 75Co .
The primary decay mode for isotopes with atomic mass unit values less than that of the most abundant stable isotope , 59Co , is electron capture and the primary mode  of क्षय लिये those of  greater than 59 atomic mass units is beta decay .
The primary decay  उत्पाद पहले 59co हैं  iron isotopes and the primary products after are nickel isotopes .
मानक  atomic mass : 58.933195 ( 5 ) u
Who  स्थानांतरित  My Cheese ?
an अद्भुत  Way to Deal with Change in Your Work and in Your Life , published in 1998 , is a motivational book by Spencer Johnson written in the style of a parable or business fable .
It describes change  in one 's  work and life , and four typical reactions to said change by two mice and two `` littlepeople '' , during their hunt for cheese .
A New York Times business bestseller since release , Who  स्थानांतरित  My Cheese ?
remained on the list for almost five years and spent over 200  सप्ताह on प्रकाशक  Weekly 's hardcover nonfiction list .
It has sold more than 26 million copies worldwide in 37  भाषाएं और remains to be एक  of the best-selling business books .
Nikita Sergeyevich Khrushchev ( – September  11 ,  1971 ) led the Soviet Union during part of the Cold War .
He served as First  सचिव  of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union from 1953 to 1964 , and as Chairman of the Council of Ministers , or Premier , from 1958 to 1964 .
Khrushchev was responsible for the partial de-Stalinization of the Soviet Union , for backing the progress of the early Soviet space  कार्यक्रम , और लिये अनेक अपेक्षाकृत  liberal reforms in areas of domestic policy .
Khrushchev 's party colleagues removed him from power in  1964 , replacing उसे  with Leonid Brezhnev as First Secretary and Alexei Kosygin as Premier .
khrushchev  was born in the Russian village of Kalinovka in 1894 , close to the present-day border between Russia and Ukraine .
He was employed as a metalworker in his youth , and during the Russian Civil War was a  राजनैतिक commissar  .
With the help of Lazar  kaganovich , he worked  his way up the Soviet hierarchy .
He supported Joseph Stalin 's purges , and approved thousands of  रखवाले  .
In 1939 , Stalin  भेजा उसे to govern  Ukraine , and he continued the purges there .
During what was  ज्ञात  in the Soviet Union as the Great Patriotic War ( Eastern Front of World War II ) , Khrushchev was again a commissar , serving as an intermediary between Stalin and his generals .
khrushchev थी उपस्थित  at the bloody defense of Stalingrad , a fact he took great pride in throughout his life .
After the war , he returned to Ukraine  पहले होने  recalled to Moscow as one of Stalin 's close advisers .
In the power struggle triggered by  स्टालिन  's death in 1953 , Khrushchev , after several years , emerged victorious .
On February  25 ,  1956 , at the 20th Party Congress , he delivered the `` Secret Speech , '' denouncing Stalin 's purges and ushering in a less repressive era in the Soviet Union .
His domestic policies , aimed at bettering the lives of ordinary citizens , were often  अप्रभावी  , especially in the area of agriculture .
Hoping eventually to rely on missiles for national defense ,  khrushchev ordered  major cuts in conventional forces .
Despite the cuts , Khrushchev 's rule saw the tensest years  of  the Cold War , culminating in the Cuban Missile Crisis .
Some of Khrushchev 's policies were seen as erratic , particularly by his emerging rivals , who quietly rose in strength and  अपदस्थ उसे in अक्तूबर  1964 .
He did not suffer the deadly fate of some previous losers of Soviet power struggles , but was pensioned off with an apartment in Moscow and a  dacha in the countryside  .
His  lengthy memoirs यहूद  smuggled to the West and published in part in 1970 .
Khrushchev died in  1971 of  heart disease .
Upper gastrointestinal ( GI ) bleeding refers to hemorrhage in the   upper gastrointestinal tract .
The anatomic cut-off for  अपर gi bleeding  is the ligament of Treitz , which connects the fourth portion of the duodenum to the diaphragm near the splenic flexure of the colon .
Upper GI bleeds are considered medical emergencies , and require admission to hospital for urgent  निदान और  management .
Due to advances in medications and endoscopy , upper GI hemorrhage is now usually treated without  सर्जरी  .
World population estimates from 1800 to 2100 , based on UN 2010 projections ( red , orange , green ) and US Census  ब्यूरो ऐतिहासिक  estimates ( black ) .
Actual recorded  जनसांख्यिकी  figures are in blue .
According to the highest estimate , the  संसार जनसांख्यिकी may वृद्धि to 16  billion by 2100 ; according to the lowest estimate , it may decline to 6 billion .
The world population is the total number of living  इंसानो on धरती .
As of today , it is estimated to number  अरब  by the United States Census Bureau ( USCB ) .
The USCB  estimates  that the world population exceeded 7 billion on March 12 , 2012 .
According to a separate estimate by the United Nations Population Fund , it  पहुँचे इस  milestone on October 31 , 2011 .
The  संसार जनसांख्यिकी रै अनुभवी निरन्तर  growth since the end of the Great Famine and the Black Death in 1350 , when it stood at around 370 million .
The  highest  rates of growth – global population increases above 1.8 % per year – were seen briefly during the 1950s , and for a longer period during the 1960s and 1970s .
The growth rate peaked at 2.2 % in 1963 ,  और था अस्वीकृत  to 1.1 % by 2011 .
Total annual births were highest in the late 1980s at about 138 million , and are now expected to remain essentially constant at their 2011 level of 134 million , while deaths  क्रमांक 56 लाख प्रति साल , और हैं  expected to increase to 80 million per year by 2040 .
Current projections show a continued increase in population in the near future ( but a steady decline in the population growth  रेट ) , साथ the वैश्विक जनसांख्यिकी अपेक्षित to पहुँचें between  7.5 and 10.5 billion by 2050 .
Various longer-term estimates predict further growth , stagnation , or even overall decline in the global   population by 2150 .
Some analysts have questioned the sustainability of further world population growth ,  citing the growing pressures on the पर्यावरण  , global food supplies , and energy resources .
Philips Lumileds Lighting Company is the  निर्माता of a चौड़ी  range of high-power/high-efficiency light-emitting diodes ( LEDs ) .
It is  a  now a fully owned division of Philips Lighting .
Knuckle mnemonic for  the क्रमांक of दिनों  in each month of the Gregorian Calendar .
Each projecting  knuckle  represents a 31-day month .
A mnemonic ( , with a silent `` m '' ) , or mnemonic device , is any learning  तकनीक कि एड्स सूचना  retention .
Mnemonics aim to translate information into a form that  the इंसान दिमाग can retain बेहतर  than its original form .
Even the process of applying this conversion might already  सहायता the ट्रांसफ़र of सूचना  to long-term memory .
Commonly encountered mnemonics are often for lists and in auditory form , such as short poems , acronyms , or memorable phrases , but mnemonics can also be for other types of information   and in visual or kinesthetic forms .
Their use is based on the observation that the human mind more easily remembers spatial , personal , surprising , physical , sexual , humorous  , or वरना 'relatable ' सूचना  , rather than more abstract or impersonal forms of information .
The word mnemonic is derived from the Ancient Greek word μνημονικός ( mnēmonikos ) ,  अर्थ `` of मेमोरी '' और is सम्बन्धित  to Mnemosyne ( `` remembrance '' ) , the name of the goddess of memory in Greek mythology .
Both of these words are  निकला इससे  μνήμη ( mnēmē ) , `` remembrance , memory '' .
Mnemonics in antiquity were most  प्रायः  considered in the context of what is today known as the Art of memory .
Ancient Greeks and Romans distinguished between two types of memory :  the 'natural  ' memory and the 'artificial ' memory .
The former is inborn , and is the one that  everyone उपयोग automatically और बगैर  thinking .
The artificial memory in contrast has to be trained and developed through the learning and  practicing of a किस्में  of mnemonic techniques .
Mnemonic systems are special techniques or strategies consciously used to improve memory , it helps employ information already  भंडारित in long-term  memory to make memorization an easier task .
President Bush signing the  no चाइल्ड बाएँ  Behind Act at Hamilton H.S . in Hamilton , Ohio .
The No Child Left Behind Act of 2001 ( NCLB ) is a  संयुक्त राज्य अधिनियम of कॉंग्रेस कि is  a reauthorization of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act , which included Title I , the government 's flagship aid program for disadvantaged students .
NCLB supports standards-based education reform based on the premise that  setting  high standards and establishing measurable goals can improve individual outcomes in education .
The Act  requires राज्य  to develop assessments in basic skills .
States must give  ये आकलन to सब  students at select grade levels in order to receive federal school funding .
The   Act does not assert a national achievement standard ; standards are set by each individual state .
NCLB expanded the federal role in public education through annual testing , annual  अकादमिक प्रगति , रपट ताश , टीचर  qualifications , and funding changes .
The bill  passed  in the U.S. Congress with bipartisan support .
Dodge B Series utility circa 1950 , driven by  अल्बर्ट namatjira
A  पिकअप ट्रक or pick-up  , often simply referred to as a pickup , is a light motor vehicle with an open-top , rear cargo area ( bed ) .
In North America , the term pickup is used for light trucks  साथ a हल्का  duty chassis and factory built , integrated bed , as well as for coupé utility vehicles , often based on a personal car chassis , but also often on a special dedicated chassi for such use .
Some countries have their own terms  समान to पिकअप , ऐसे as ute  in Australia and New Zealand , or bakkie in South Africa .
Large pickup trucks are somewhat rare in Europe , where vans and light lorries are commonly  प्रयुक्त लिये समान  roles .
This 15th-century depiction of Charlemagne and Pope  एड्रियन i shows a  well-bred medieval horse with arched neck , refined head and elegant gait .
Horses in the Middle Ages differed in size , build and breed from the  आधुनिक घोड़ा ,  and were , on average , smaller .
They were also more central to society than their modern counterparts , being essential for war ,  कृषि , और  transport .
Consequently , specific types of horse developed , many of which have no modern  समतुल्य  .
While an understanding of modern horse breeds and  equestrianism  is vital for any analysis of the medieval horse , researchers also need to consider documentary ( both written and pictorial ) and archaeological evidence .
Horses in the Middle Ages were rarely  differentiated  by breed , but rather by use .
This led them to be described , for example , as `` chargers `` ( war horses ) , `` palfreys `` (  सवारी घोड़े ) , कार्ट घोड़े or packhorses  .
Reference is also given to their place of origin , such as `` Spanish horses , '' but  whether  this referred to one breed or several is unknown .
Another difficulty arising  दौरान कोई पढ़ाई of मध्यकालीन दस्तावेज़ or साहित्य is the लचीलापन  of the medieval languages , where several words can be used for one thing ( or , conversely , several objects are referred to by one word ) .
Words such as ' courser ' and 'charger ' are used interchangeably ( even within one document ) , and where one epic may speak disparagingly of a rouncey , another praises its   skill and swiftness .
Significant technological advances in equestrian equipment , often introduced from other cultures , allowed for significant changes in  दोनो warfare और कृषि  .
In particular , improved designs for the solid-treed  saddle as well as  the arrival of the stirrup , horseshoe and horse collar were significant advances in medieval society .
Consequently , the assumptions and theories developed  by historians are  not definitive , and debate still rages on many issues , such as the breeding or size of the horse , and a number of sources must be consulted in order to understand the breadth of the subject .
The Music Man is a musical with book , music , and lyrics by  मेरेडिथ  Willson , based on a story by Willson and Franklin Lacey .
The plot concerns con man Harold Hill  , जो मुद्राएँ as a लड़कों  ' band organizer and leader and sells band instruments and uniforms to naive townsfolk before skipping town with the cash .
In River City , Iowa , prim librarian and piano teacher Marian Paroo sees through him , but when Hill helps her younger brother  overcome उसके भय of सोशल interactions  due to his lisp , Marian begins to fall in love with Harold .
Harold , in turn   falling for Marian , risks being caught to win her .
In 1957 , the show became a hit on Broadway , winning five Tony Awards , including Best  musical , और कार्यशील लिये 1,375 प्रदर्शन  .
The cast album won the first Grammy Award for `` Best Original Cast Album '' and was number  एक on the बिलबोर्ड चार्ट लिये  245 weeks .
The show 's success led to revivals  और a लोकप्रिय 1962 फिल्मी अनुकूलन  and a 2003 television remake .
It frequently is produced by both professional and  amateur थिएटर  companies .
निरीक्षक  's wheel
A surveyor 's wheel , also called a clickwheel , hodometer , waywiser , trundle wheel , measuring wheel ,  or perambulator is a यंत्र लिये  measuring distance .
largest  non-polar deserts
Sand dunes in the Rub ' al  खली (  `` Empty quarter '' ) of Saudi Arabia .
Makhtesh Ramon , Negev desert  , इसराईल
A desert is a landscape or region of land that is very dry because of low rainfall amounts ( precipitation ) , often has little coverage by plants , and in which  स्ट्रीम शुष्क up जबतक वे हैं supplied by जल  from outside areas .
रेगिस्तान can भी be वर्णित  as areas where more water is lost by evapotranspiration than falls as precipitation .
Desert  पौधे  must have special adaptations to survive with this little water .
Deserts generally receive less than 25 cm of rain (  वर्षण ) प्रत्येक  year .
Semideserts or steppes are regions  जिससे  receive between and .
In the Köppen climate classification system ,  रेगिस्तान हैं classed  as BWh ( hot desert ) or BWk ( temperate desert ) .
In the  thornthwaite  climate classification system , deserts would be classified as arid megathermal climates .
World War I ( WWI ) was a global war centred in Europe that began on 28 July  1914 और lasted जबतक 11  November 1918 .
It was predominantly called the World War or the Great War from its occurrence until the start of World War II in 1939 , and the  पहला संसार युद्ध or संसार युद्ध i thereafter  .
It involved all the world 's great powers , which were assembled in two opposing alliances : the Allies ( based on the Triple Entente of the United Kingdom , France and Russia ) and the Central Powers ( originally the Triple Alliance of Germany , Austria-Hungary and Italy ; but , as Austria–Hungary had  लिया the अप्रिय विरूद्ध the अनुबंध , इटली किया नहीं डालें into the युद्ध  ) .
These alliances were both reorganised and expanded as more nations entered the war : Italy , Japan and the United States joined the Allies , and the Ottoman Empire  और बुल्गारिया the सेंट्रल  Powers .
Ultimately , more than 70 million  सैन्य कर्मियों ,  including 60 million Europeans , were mobilised in one of the largest wars in history .
More than 9 million combatants were killed , largely because of  technological  advancements that led to enormous increases in the lethality of weapons without corresponding improvements in protection or mobility .
It was the fifth- deadliest conflict in world history , subsequently paving the way for various political changes , such  as revolutions  in many of the nations involved .
One of the long-term causes of the war was the resurgence  of साम्राज्यवाद in the विदेशी  policies of the great powers of Europe .
More immediately , the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria , the heir to the throne of  austria-hungary , on 28 जून 1914 by यूगोस्लाव राष्ट्रवादी  Gavrilo Princip in Sarajevo triggered a diplomatic crisis when Austria-Hungary subsequently delivered an ultimatum to the Kingdom of Serbia .
Several alliances formed  over  the previous decades were invoked .
Within weeks , the  प्रमुख शक्तियां यहूद at युद्ध और  , via their colonies , the conflict soon spread around the world .
On 28 July , the Austro-Hungarians fired the  पहला  shots of the war as preparation for the invasion of Serbia .
While the Russians mobilised ,  the germans invaded न्यूट्रल बेल्जियम और ध्वज  on the way to France , providing a casus belli for Britain 's declaration of war against Germany .
After the German march on Paris was brought to a halt—the so-called Miracle of the Marne —the Western Front settled into a static battle of attrition with a trench  लकीर कि बदला छोटी  until 1917 .
On the Eastern Front , the Russian army was successful against the  austro-hungarians  , but was stopped in its invasion of East Prussia by the Germans .
In November the Ottoman Empire joined the war , opening up fronts  in the काकेशस , मेसोपोटामिया  and the Sinai .
Italy and Bulgaria  गई to युद्ध in  1915 and Romania in 1916 .
In Russia , the tsar 's government collapsed in March 1917 and a subsequent revolution in November brought the Russians  to शर्तें साथ the सेंट्रल  Powers .
After a 1918 German offensive along the western front , the Allies drove back the Germans in a series of successful offensives and  अमरीकी शक्तियां began प्रवेश  the trenches .
Germany , which had its own trouble with  क्रांतिकारियों , सहमत  to an armistice on 11 November 1918 .
The war ended in  विजय लिये  the Allies .
Events on the home fronts were as tumultuous as on the battle fronts , as the participants tried to mobilize their  जनशक्ति और आर्थिक संसाधन  to fight a total war .
By the end of the war , four major imperial powers—the German ,  रूसी  , Austro-Hungarian and Ottoman empires—ceased to exist .
The successor states of the former two lost a great amount of  territory , जबकि the latter  two were dismantled entirely .
The map of central  यूरोपीय  was redrawn into several smaller states .
The League of Nations was formed in the  आशा  of preventing another such conflict .
The European nationalism spawned by the war and the breakup of empires , the repercussions  of जर्मनी 's शिकस्त और समस्याएं साथ the सन्धि of versailles  are agreed to be factors contributing to World War II .
`` Girls Just Want to Have Fun '' is a 1979  सोंग originally लिखा  by Robert Hazard and made famous by singer Cyndi Lauper .
It was the first major single released by Lauper  as a सोलो  artist and the lead-off single from her debut album She 's So Unusual .
Lauper’s version gained recognition as a feminist anthem and promoted  by an award-winning  video .
It has been covered on either an  एल्बम or in सजीव कॉन्सर्ट  by over 30 other artists .
The single was Lauper 's breakthrough hit , reaching # 2  on the बिलबोर्ड hot 100 और बनने  a worldwide hit throughout late 1983 and early 1984 .
It remains one of Lauper 's  हस्ताक्षर  songs and was a widely popular song during the era of its release , the 1980s .
The `` Rolling Stone & MTV : '100 Greatest Pop Songs ' : 1-50 '' , `` Rolling Stone : `` The 100 Top Music Videos '' '' and the `` VH1 : 100 Greatest  वीडियो '' सूचियाँ क्रमित the सोंग at # 22 , # 39 और # 45 ,  respectively .
The song received a Grammy Award  नामांकन  for Record of the Year and Best Female Pop Vocal Performance .
दृश्य of  defibrillator electrode position and placement .
Defibrillation is a common   treatment for life-threatening cardiac dysrhythmias , ventricular fibrillation , and pulseless ventricular tachycardia .
Defibrillation consists of delivering a  therapeutic खुराक  of electrical energy to the affected heart with a device called a defibrillator .
This depolarizes a critical mass of the heart muscle , terminates the dysrhythmia , and allows normal sinus rhythm to be reestablished by the  देह 's प्राकृतिक pacemaker , in the sinoatrial  node of the heart .
Defibrillators can  be बाह्य  , transvenous , or implanted , depending on the type of device used or needed .
Some external units , known as automated external defibrillators ( AEDs ) , automate the diagnosis of treatable rhythms ,  अर्थ कि lay responders or bystanders  are able to use them successfully with little , or in some cases no training at all .
The Cato Institute is an  अमरीकी libertarian  think tank headquartered in Washington , D.C .
It was founded as the Charles Koch Foundation in 1974 by Murray Rothbard , Ed Crane  और चार्ल्स koch , अध्यक्ष of the फलक और मुख्य कार्यपालिका अधिकारी  of the conglomerate Koch Industries , Inc. .
in जुलाई 1976 ,  the name was changed to the Cato Institute .
According to the  2011 वैश्विक go to सोचो टैंक  Index , Cato is the 6th most influential US based think tank , ranking 3rd in Economic Policy and 2nd in Social Policy .
The  संस्थान 's stated मिशन is `` to बढ़ाएँ the समझना  of public policies based on the principles of limited government , free markets , individual liberty , and peace .
The Institute will use the most effective means to originate , advocate , promote , and disseminate applicable policy proposals that create free , open , and  सिविल समाजों in  the United States and throughout the world . ''
Cato  विद्वानों  were critical of George W. Bush 's Republican administration ( 2001–2009 ) on several issues , including the Iraq War , civil liberties , education , agriculture , energy policy , and excessive government spending .
On other issues , they supported Bush administration initiatives , most notably health care , Social Security , global warming , tax policy ,  और  immigration .
During the 2008 U.S. presidential election ,  केटो विद्वानों criticized  both major-party candidates , John McCain and Barack Obama .
Cato has criticized President Obama 's stances on policy issues since his inauguration , such as fiscal  stimulus ,  healthcare reform , foreign policy , and the War on Drugs , while supporting his stance on the repeal of Do n't Ask , Do n't Tell and liberal immigration policy .
Dracula is an 1897 Gothic horror novel by Irish  लेखक ब्राम स्टोकर .
Famous for  introducing  the character of the vampire Count Dracula , the novel tells the story of Dracula 's attempt to relocate from Transylvania to England , and the battle between Dracula and a small group of men and women led by Professor Abraham Van Helsing .
Dracula has  महरूम आबंटित to अनेक साहित्यिक जाति सहित  vampire literature , horror fiction , the gothic novel and invasion literature .
The novel touches on themes such as the role of women  in  Victorian culture , sexual conventions , immigration , colonialism , and post-colonialism .
Although Stoker did not invent the vampire , he defined its modern form , and the novel has spawned numerous theatrical , film and television  interpretations  .
Quidditch is a competitive sport in  the wizarding संसार  of the Harry Potter universe , and is from the series of children 's novels and movies .
It is an extremely rough but very popular semi-contact sport  , निभाई by wizards  and witches .
Matches are played between two teams of  सात खिलाड़ी सवारी उड़ती broomsticks ,  using four balls and six elevated ring-shaped goals , three on each side of the Quidditch pitch ( field ) .
In the Harry Potter universe , Quidditch holds a fervent following similar to the position that association football holds as a  globally लोकप्रिय  sport .
The  खेल  is monumental throughout the wizarding world .
Harry plays an important position  लिये उसके हाउस टोली at हॉग्वार्ट्स  : he is the seeker and becomes the captain in his sixth year there .
Regional and international competitions are  उल्लेखित throughout  the series .
In  प्याला of आग , quidditch at हॉग्वार्ट्स is रद्द  for the Tri-Wizard Tournament , but Harry and the Weasleys attend the Quidditch World Cup .
In addition , Harry uses his Quidditch skills to capture a golden egg from a dragon called the Hungarian  horntail ( in the पहला कार्य of the tri-wizard टूर्नामेंट ) , to कैप्चर a उड़ती कुंजी in पारस  's Stone , and on two key occasions in Deathly Hallows — getting hold of Ravenclaw 's Diadem , and during the final fight with Voldemort — the `` unerring skill of the Seeker '' is useful to him in snatching the Elder Wand out of the air .
Harry Potter has owned two broomsticks , the Nimbus 2000 and the Firebolt , both of which are  नष्ट by the श्रेणी  ' end .
The game has been adopted in the  रियल संसार  in the form of Muggle Quidditch .
The  संयुक्त राज्य कॉंग्रेस is the bicameral  legislature of the federal government of the United States consisting of two houses : the lower house known as the House of Representatives and the upper house known as the Senate .
Congress meets in the Capitol in  वॉशिंगटन , d.c  .
Both representatives and  सीनेटरों  are chosen through direct election .
Congress has a total of 535 voting members : 435 members in the House of Representatives and  100 सदस्यों in  the Senate .
Members of the House of  प्रतिनिधि serve two-year  terms representing the people of a district .
Congressional districts are apportioned to  राज्य  by population using the United States Census results , each state in the union having at least one representative in the House of Representatives .
Regardless of population ,  प्रत्येक  of the 50 states has two senators ; the 100 senators each serve a six-year term .
The terms are staggered so every two years  लगभग one-third  of the Senate is up for election .
Each staggered group of  one-third of the सीनेटरों हैं  called 'classes ' .
No state  of the संयुक्त  States has two senators from the same class .
Most  incumbents तलाश re-election  , and their historical likelihood of winning subsequent elections exceeds 90 percent .
In  अगस्त 2012 , a gallup  poll reported that Congress’s approval rating amongst Americans was at 10 % , matching a 38-year low reached in November 2011 .
``  a छोटी अधिक देश than  That '' is the title of a song written by Joey + Rory 's Rory Lee Feek , Wynn Varble , and Don Poythress , and recorded by American country artist Easton Corbin .
It was released  in अगस्त 2009  as Corbin 's debut single and is included on his self-titled debut album .
In April 2010 , the song  पहुँचे क्रमांक एक on the  country music charts , making Corbin the first male solo artist in seven years to send a debut single to Number One .
It  रै महरूम certified  Gold by the RIAA .
The BlackBerry is a line   of wireless handheld devices and services designed and marketed by Research In Motion Limited ( RIM ) operating as BlackBerry .
The first BlackBerry device , an email pager , was released in 1999 ; the most recent  ब्लैकबेरी  devices , the Z10 and Q10 , were announced on January 30 , 2013 .
The user interface varies by model ; most   feature a physical QWERTY keyboard , while newer generations have relied on a multi-touch screen and virtual keyboard .
A BlackBerry can shoot video , take photos , play  म्यूज़िक , और perform  online functions such as web-browsing and emailing .
They can also send and receive push email and instant messages while  maintaining a ऊँची स्तर of सुरक्षा through  on-device message encryption , and are designed to function as personal digital assistants .
BlackBerry devices support a large variety of   instant messaging features , with the most popular being the proprietary BlackBerry Messenger service .
The  ब्लैकबेरी  PlayBook is a tablet computer offered by the company .
The 100 millionth BlackBerry smartphone was shipped in June quarter of 2010 and the 200 millionth smartphone was shipped in  सितंबर क्वार्टर of 2012  .
BlackBerry accounts for 3 % of mobile device sales worldwide in 2011 , making its manufacturer the sixth most popular device maker ( 25 % of   mobile device sales are smartphones ) .
The consumer BlackBerry Internet Service   is available in 91 countries worldwide on over 500 mobile service operators using various mobile technologies .
As of September 2012 , there were eighty million subscribers  विश्वव्यापी to  BlackBerry .
In 2011 the Caribbean and Latin America  had the highest  penetrations of BlackBerry smartphones worldwide , with up to about 45 per cent in the region having a RIM device .
BlackBerry , iPhone , Android , and  खिड़कियाँ फोन  are considered the four major smartphone brands .
BlackBerry is widely referred to as `` CrackBerry '' in the United States , which alludes to its excessive use by its owners and is a reference to the  addictiveness of क्रैक कोका  .
Use of the term CrackBerry became so widespread that in  नवम्बर 2006 वेबस्टर 's नई  World College Dictionary named `` crackberry '' the `` New Word of the Year . ''
An example  of a  demand curve shifting .
the शिफ़्ट इससे d1 to d2  means an increase in demand with consequences for the other variables
In  अर्थशास्त्र , the माँग वक्र is the आलेख depicting the संबंध  between the price of a certain commodity and the amount of it that consumers are willing and able to purchase at that given price .
It is a graphic representation of a  माँग अनुसूची  .
The demand curve for all consumers together follows from the  demand  curve of every individual consumer : the individual demands at each price are added together .
Demand curves are used to estimate behaviors in competitive markets , and are often combined with supply curves to estimate the equilibrium price ( the price at which sellers together are willing to sell the same amount as buyers together are willing to buy  , भी ज्ञात as मार्केट clearing दाम ) और the संतुलन मात्रा  ( the amount of that good or service that will be produced and bought without surplus/excess supply or shortage/excess demand ) of that market .
In a monopolistic market , the demand  वक्र facing the monopolist is  simply the market demand curve .
historia
by  nikolaos  Gysis ( 1892 )
History ( from Greek - historia , meaning `` inquiry , knowledge acquired by investigation '' ) is an umbrella term that relates to past  कार्यक्रम as खूब as  the discovery , collection , organization , and presentation of information about these events .
The term includes cosmic ,  भूगर्भिक  , and organic history , but is often generically implied to mean human history .
Scholars who write about  इतिहास हैं  called historians .
History  can भी refer to the अकादमिक अनुशासन  which uses a narrative to examine and analyse a sequence of past events , and objectively determine the patterns of cause and effect that determine them .
Historians sometimes debate the nature of history and  इसके उपयोगिता by discussing  the study of the discipline as an end in itself and as a way of providing `` perspective '' on the problems of the present .
Stories common to a particular culture , but not  समर्थित by बाह्य स्त्रोत  ( such as the tales surrounding King Arthur ) are usually classified as cultural heritage or legends , because they do not support the `` disinterested investigation '' required of the discipline of history .
Events occurring prior to written record are  माना  prehistory .
Herodotus , a 5th century B.C . Greek historian is considered within the Western tradition to  be the `` पिता of इतिहास '' , और , साथ साथ उसके समकालीन thucydides  , helped form the foundations for the modern study of human history .
Their work continues to be read today and the divide between the culture-focused  हिरोडोटस और the military-focused thucydides remains  a point of contention or approach in modern historical writing .
In the Eastern tradition , a state chronicle the  वसन्त और पतझड़ annals थी ज्ञात to be compiled  from as early as 722 BCE although only 2nd century BCE texts survived .
Ancient influences have helped spawn variant interpretations of the nature of history which have evolved over the  सदियां  and continue to change today .
The modern study of history is  wide-ranging , और शामिल the पढ़ाई of  specific regions and the study of certain topical or thematical elements of historical investigation .
Often history is taught as part of primary and secondary education , and the academic study of  इतिहास is  a major discipline in University studies .
मैल्कम x ( ; may 19  , 1925February 21 , 1965 ) , born Malcolm Little and also known as El-Hajj Malik El-Shabazz ( ) , was an African-American Muslim minister and human rights activist .
To his admirers , he was a courageous advocate for the rights of blacks , a man who indicted white America in the harshest terms for its crimes against black Americans   .
Detractors accused him of preaching racism , black  सर्वोच्चता , और हिंसा  .
He has been called one of the greatest   and most influential African Americans in history .
Malcolm X 's father  died—killed  by white supremacists , it was rumored—when he was young , and at least one of his uncles was lynched .
When he was 13 , his mother was placed in a mental hospital , and he was placed in a series of foster   homes .
In 1946 , at  आयु 20 , he  went to prison for breaking and entering .
In prison , Malcolm X became a member  of the स्वदेश of  Islam ; after his parole in 1952 , he quickly rose to become one of its leaders .
For a dozen years , Malcolm X was the public face of the controversial group , but disillusionment with Nation of Islam head Elijah Muhammad led him to  छोड़ the  Nation in March 1964 .
After a period of travel in Africa and the Middle East , he returned to the  संयुक्त  States , where he founded Muslim Mosque , Inc. and the Organization of Afro-American Unity .
In February 1965 , less than a year after leaving the Nation of Islam  , he थी assassinated by  three members of the group .
मैल्कम x 's  expressed beliefs changed substantially over time .
As a spokesman for the Nation of Islam he taught black supremacy and advocated separation of black and white Americans —in contrast to the civil rights   movement 's emphasis on integration .
After breaking with the  स्वदेश  of Islam in 1964—saying of his association with it , `` I did many things as a [ Black ] Muslim that I 'm sorry for now .
I was a zombie  तब ... pointed in a निश्चित दिशा  and told to march '' —and becoming a Sunni Muslim , he disavowed racism and expressed willingness to work with civil rights leaders , he continued to emphasize Pan-Africanism , black self-determination , and self-defense .
Henry Merritt `` Hank '' Paulson , Jr. ( born March 28 , 1946 ) is an American banker who served as the 74th  संयुक्त राज्य सचिव  of the Treasury .
He had served as the Chairman and Chief Executive  अधिकारी of  Goldman Sachs , and is now chairman of the Paulson Institute , which he founded in 2011 to promote sustainable economic growth and a cleaner environment around the world , with an initial focus on the United States and China .
A virtual machine ( VM ) is a software implemented abstraction of the underlying hardware , which is presented to the application layer of the  प्रणाली  .
Virtual machines may be based on specifications of a hypothetical computer or emulate the  कंप्यूटर वास्तुकला  and functions of a real world computer .
Spiders ( order Araneae ) are air-breathing arthropods that have eight legs and chelicerae  साथ fangs कि  inject venom .
They are the largest order of arachnids and rank seventh in total species  विविधता among सब  other groups of organisms .
Spiders are  मिला विश्वव्यापी on प्रत्येक  continent except for Antarctica , and have become established in nearly every habitat with the exception of air and sea colonization .
As of 2008 , at least 43,678 spider species , and 109 families have been recorded by taxonomists ; however , there has been confusion within the scientific  जातियाँ as to कैसा सब  these families should be classified , as evidenced by the over 20 different classifications that have been proposed since 1900 .
Anatomically , spiders differ from other arthropods in that the usual body segments are fused into two tagmata , the cephalothorax and abdomen , and joined by a  छोटी , बेलनाकार  pedicel .
Unlike insects , spiders do not  have antennae  .
In all except the most primitive  समूह , the mesothelae , मकड़ियों have the सबसे  centralized nervous systems of all arthropods , as all their ganglia are fused into one mass in the cephalothorax .
Unlike most arthropods , spiders have no extensor muscles in their  limbs और बजाय  extend them by hydraulic pressure .
Their abdomens bear appendages that have been  परिवर्धित  into spinnerets that extrude silk from up to six types of silk glands within their abdomen .
Spider webs vary widely in size , shape and the  राशि  of sticky thread used .
It now appears that  the सर्पिल orb वेब may be एक of  the earliest forms , and spiders that produce tangled cobwebs are more abundant and diverse than orb-web spiders .
Spider-like arachnids with silk-producing spigots appeared in the Devonian period about , but these animals  जाहिर lacked  spinnerets .
True spiders have been found in Carboniferous rocks from , and are  बहुत समान to the सबसे  primitive surviving order , the Mesothelae .
The main groups of modern spiders , Mygalomorphae  और araneomorphae  , first appeared in the Triassic period , before .
A herbivorous species , Bagheera  kiplingi , थी वर्णित in 2008 , लकिन सब अन्य ज्ञात प्रजाति हैं  predators , mostly preying on insects and on other spiders , although a few large species also take birds and lizards .
Spiders use a wide  दायरा of रणनीति  to capture prey : trapping it in sticky webs , lassoing it with sticky bolas , mimicking the prey to avoid detection , or running it down .
Most  detect शिकार  mainly by sensing vibrations , but the active hunters have acute vision , and hunters of the genus Portia show signs of intelligence in their choice of tactics and ability to develop new ones .
Spiders ' guts are too narrow to take solids , and they  liquidize उनके खाना  by flooding it with digestive enzymes and grinding it with the bases of their pedipalps , as they do not have true jaws .
Male spiders identify  themselves by a किस्में  of complex courtship rituals to avoid being eaten by the females .
Males of most species survive a few matings , limited  मुख्यतः by उनके  short life spans .
Females weave silk egg-cases , each of  जिससे may contain  hundreds of eggs .
Females of many species care for their  यंग  , for example by carrying them around or by sharing food with them .
A  अल्पसंख्यक of प्रजाति  are social , building communal webs that may house anywhere from a few to 50,000 individuals .
Social behavior ranges from precarious toleration , as in the  विधवा मकड़ियों  , to co-operative hunting and food-sharing .
Although most spiders live for at most two years , tarantulas and other mygalomorph spiders  can सजीव up to 25  years in captivity .
While the venom of a few species is dangerous to humans , scientists are now researching the use of  मकड़ी venom  in medicine and as non-polluting pesticides .
Spider  रेशा provides a संयोजन of lightness ,  strength and elasticity that is superior to that of synthetic materials , and spider silk genes have been inserted into mammals and plants to see if these can be used as silk factories .
As a result of their wide range of behaviors , spiders have become common symbols in art and mythology  symbolizing विभिन्न combinations  of patience , cruelty and creative powers .
Donna Marie Pinciotti ( Born February 13 , 1960 ) is a fictional character  and one of  the two female leads in the Fox sitcom That '70s Show , appearing in all eight seasons .
Portrayed by Laura  prepon , डोना  is the love interest to Eric Forman .
US county  household  median income 2009 .
Median US household income ,  2001-2011
Household  आय is a माप commonly  used by the United States government and private institutions .
Each household is measured by the  आय of प्रत्येक  resident over the age of 15 .
Income includes wages and salaries , unemployment insurance , disability payments , child support payments received ,  नियमित rental रसीदें , as खूब as  any personal business , investment , or other kinds of income received routinely .
While  inflation-adjusted ( `` रियल '' ) household  income had been increasing almost every year from 1945 to 1999 , it has since been flat and even decreased recently .
U.S. median   household income fell from $ 51,144 in 2010 to $ 50,502 in 2011 .
Extreme poverty in the United States , meaning households living on  कम than $ 2  per day before government benefits , doubled from 1996 to 1.5 million households in 2011 , including 2.8 million children .
The residents of the household do not have to be related to the head of the  household  for their earnings to be considered part of the household 's income .
As households tend to share a similar economic context , the use of household income remains among the  सबसे widely स्वीकृत उपायों of आय  .
That the size of a household is not commonly taken into account in such measures may distort any analysis of fluctuations within or among the household  आय श्रेणी , और  may render direct comparisons between quintiles difficult or even impossible .
A registered agent , also known as a resident agent or statutory agent , in  United States  business law , is a business or individual designated to receive service of process ( SOP ) when a business entity is a party in a legal action such as a lawsuit or summons .
The  पंजीकृत एजेंट 's पता  may also be where the state will send the paperwork for the yearly renewal of the business entity 's charter .
The registered agent for a business entity  may be an व्यक्तिगत सदस्य  of the company , or ( more often ) a third party , such as the organization 's lawyer or a service company .
Failure to properly maintain a registered  एजेंट can affect  a company negatively .
Office for Emergency  प्रबन्धन  .
Office  of युद्ध सूचना  war poster 1941 - 1945
`` Life , Liberty , and the pursuit of  सुख '' is a well-known  phrase in the United States Declaration of Independence .
The phrase is meant to exemplify the `` unalienable rights '' with which all human beings are endowed by their creator for their protection of which they  संस्थान सरकारें  .
Fencing , is typically divided into Olympic fencing  , शास्त्रीय तलवारबाजी  and historical fencing , .
The sport of fencing ( commonly called olympic fencing or competitive  तलवारबाजी ) is विभाजित  into three weapon categories : foil , sabre and épée .
शास्त्रीय तलवारबाजी उपयोग the  same three weapons , but approaches fencing as a martial art .
Competitive Fencing is one of five  खेल जिससे रै महरूम प्रदर्शित  at every one of the modern Olympic Games , the other four being Athletics , Cycling , Swimming , and Gymnastics .
The quadriceps femoris ( Latin for `` four-headed muscle of the femur `` ) , also called simply the quadriceps , quadriceps extensor , quads , is a large muscle group that includes the four  प्रचलित मांसपेशियां on the सामने of  the thigh .
It is the  ग्रेट extensor मांसपेशी of the  knee , forming a large fleshy mass which covers the front and sides of the femur .
The proper Latin plural  रूप of the क्रियाशील  quadriceps would be quadricipites .
In modern English usage ,  quadriceps  is used in both singular and plural .
The singular form quadricep , produced by  hypercorrection , is  frequently used .
RMS Titanic was a British passenger liner that sank in the North Atlantic Ocean on 15 April 1912 after colliding  साथ an हिमशैल  during her maiden voyage from Southampton , UK to New York City , US .
The sinking of Titanic caused the deaths of 1,502 people in one of the deadliest  peacetime मेरीटाइम आपदाओं  in modern history .
The RMS  टाइटैनिक थी the largest  ship afloat at the time of her maiden voyage .
She was the second of three  ओलम्पिक क्लास समंदर liners संचालित by the  White Star Line , and she was built by the Harland and Wolff shipyard in Belfast with Thomas Andrews , who perished with the ship , as her naval architect .
On her  maiden voyage ,  she carried 2,224 passengers and crew .
Under the command of Edward Smith , her passengers included  some of the  wealthiest people in the world , as well as hundreds of emigrants from Great Britain and Ireland , Scandinavia and elsewhere throughout Europe seeking a new life in North America .
The ship was designed to be the last word in comfort and luxury , with an on-board gymnasium ,  तैराकी पूल , पुस्तकालयों , high-class रेस्तरां  and opulent cabins .
She also had a powerful  बेतार टेलीग्राफ provided लिये the  convenience of passengers as well as for operational use .
Though she had  उन्नत सुरक्षा सुविधाएँ ऐसे as watertight compartments  and remotely activated watertight doors , she lacked enough lifeboats to accommodate all of those aboard .
Because of outdated maritime safety regulations , she carried only enough lifeboats for 1,178 people—slightly  more  than half of the number travelling on the maiden voyage , and one-third her total passenger and crew capacity .
After leaving Southampton on 10 April 1912 , Titanic  called at  Cherbourg in France and Queenstown ( now Cobh ) in Ireland before heading westwards towards New York .
On 14  अप्रैल 1912 , चार दिनों into the क्रासिंग और परिचय 375 मील ( 600 km ) दक्षिण of न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड , वो hit an हिमशैल at 11:40 pm जलयान 's समय .
The glancing collision caused Titanics hull plates to buckle inwards along her starboard side and opened five of her sixteen watertight   compartments to the sea ; the ship gradually filled with water .
Meanwhile , passengers and some crew members were evacuated in lifeboats , many of which were launched only  partly loaded  .
A disproportionate number of men were left aboard because of a `` women and children first  `` protocol  followed by some of the officers loading the lifeboats .
By 2:20 AM ,  वो broke अलावा  and foundered , with well over one thousand people still aboard .
Just under two hours after the Titanic foundered ,  the cunard लाइनर rms carpathia  arrived on the scene of the sinking , where she brought aboard an estimated 705 survivors .
The disaster was greeted with worldwide shock and outrage at the huge loss of life and the regulatory and  operational असफलताओं  that had led to it .
Public inquiries in Britain and the United States  led to प्रमुख  improvements in maritime safety .
One of their most important legacies was the establishment in 1914 of the International  सम्मेलन  for the Safety of Life at Sea ( SOLAS ) , which still governs maritime safety today .
Additionally , several new wireless regulations were passed around the world in an effort to learn  इससे the अनेक missteps in बेतार  communications -- -which could have saved many more passengers .
Many of the survivors lost all of their money and possessions and were left destitute ; many families ,  विशेषकर those of क्रू सदस्यों इससे  Southampton , lost their primary bread-winners .
They were helped by an  outpouring of पब्लिक सहानुभूति  and charitable donations .
Some of the male survivors were accused of cowardice for leaving the ship while people were still on board ; the White Star Line 's  अध्यक्ष , J. ब्रूस ismay , faced सोशल ostracism लिये  the rest of his life .
The wreck of the Titanic remains on the  समुद्रतल , विभाजित  in two and gradually disintegrating at a depth of .
Since its discovery in 1985 ,  हज़ारों of artefacts have महरूम बरामद  and put on display at museums around the world .
Titanic has become one of the most famous ships in history , her memory kept alive by numerous  किताबे , लोक गीतों  , films , exhibits , and memorials .
The human leg is the entire lower extremity  or limb of the इंसान देह , सहित  the foot , thigh and even the hip or gluteal region ; however , the precise definition in human anatomy refers only to the section of the lower limb extending from the knee to the ankle .
Legs are used for standing , walking ,  कूद , कार्यशील , kicking  , and similar activities , and constitute a significant portion of a person 's mass .
This article is about the  जनसांख्यिकी सुविधाएँ of the  population of Turkey , including population density , ethnicity , education level , health of the populace , economic status , religious affiliations and other aspects of the population .
As of 2010 , the population of Turkey is estimated to be 73.7 million  साथ a विकास  rate of 1.21 % per annum ( 2009 figure ) .
the जनसांख्यिकी  is relatively young with 26.6 % falling in the 0-14 age bracket .
According to the OECD/World Bank population  आंकडे in तुर्कों  the population growth from 1990 to 2008 was 16 million or 29 % .
1998  bmw 750il
Buick  roadmaster
A full-size car is a marketing term used in North America  लिये an ऑटोमोबाइल larger than a  mid-size car .
In the United  राज्य , the epa  uses the term `` large car '' to denote full-size cars .
Joel Grey ( born April 11 , 1932 ) is an American stage and screen actor , singer , and dancer , known for his role as the Master of Ceremonies in  दोनो the स्टेज और फिल्मी अनुकूलन of the  Kander & Ebb musical Cabaret .
He has won the Academy Award  , टोनी पुरस्कार और  Golden Globe Award .
He also originated the role of  जार्ज  M. Cohan in the musical George M !
in 1973 , the Wizard  in  the musical Wicked .
Grey also starred in the Broadway  revivals of anything goes as moonface मार्टिन  , and Chicago as Amos Hart .
James Madison , Jr. ( March 16 , 1751 ( O.S . March 5 ) – June 28 , 1836 ) was an American statesman and  राजनैतिक theorist  , the fourth President of the United States ( 1809–1817 ) .
he is hailed as the “father of the constitution” लिये होने इंस्ट्रूमेंटल in the drafting of the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान और as the कुंजी चैंपियन और लेखक of the संयुक्त राज्य विधेयक  of Rights .
He served as a politician   much of his adult life .
After the constitution had been drafted , Madison became one of  the नेताओ in the गति  to ratify it .
His collaboration with Alexander Hamilton  और जॉन jay उत्पादित  the Federalist Papers ( 1788 ) .
Circulated only in New York at the time , they would later be considered among the most important polemics in support  of the संविधान  .
He was also a delegate to the Virginia constitutional ratifying convention , and was  इंस्ट्रूमेंटल  to the successful ratification effort in Virginia .
Like most of his contemporaries , Madison changed his  राजनैतिक दृश्य दौरान  his life .
During the drafting and ratification of the constitution , he favored a strong national government , though later he grew to favor stronger state governments , before settling  between the दो extremes लेट in  his life .
In 1789 , Madison became a leader in the new House of Representatives , drafting many  मौलिक कानून .
He is notable for drafting the first ten amendments to the  संविधान  , and thus is known as the `` Father of the Bill of Rights `` .
Madison worked  closely साथ अध्यक्ष  George Washington to organize the new federal government .
Breaking with Hamilton and what became the Federalist Party in 1791 , Madison and Thomas Jefferson organized  कया वे  called the Republican Party ( later called by historians the Democratic-Republican Party )
As Jefferson’s  सचिव of राज्य  ( 1801–1809 ) , Madison supervised the Louisiana Purchase , which doubled the nation’s size .
After his election to the presidency , he presided over renewed  समृद्धि लिये अनेक सालो  .
As president ( 1809–17 ) , after the failure of diplomatic protests and a trade embargo against Great Britain , he led the  स्वदेश into the युद्ध of 1812  .
He was responding to British encroachments on American honor and rights ; in addition , he wanted to end the  influence of the अंग्रेजों among उनके भारतीय  allies , whose resistance blocked United States settlement in the Midwest around the Great Lakes .
Madison found the war to be an administrative nightmare , as the United States had neither a strong army nor financial system ; as a result , he afterward supported a stronger national government and a strong military , as well as the national bank , which he  था long opposed  .
Like other Virginia statesmen in the slave  समाज , he थी a slaveholder जो inherited  his plantation known as Montpelier , and owned hundreds of slaves during his lifetime to cultivate tobacco and other crops .
Madison supported the  three-fifths सुलह कि अनुमत three-fifths  of the enumerated population of slaves to be counted for representation .
`` Roman 's Revenge ''  is a सोंग performed by अमरीकी rapper  Nicki Minaj from her debut studio album Pink Friday .
It was written  by  Minaj and rapper Eminem , who is also featured in the song , and was produced by Swizz Beatz .
It was released exclusively on October 30 , 2010 through the US iTunes Store ,  as  a promotional release preceding the album 's release .
The song initiated a feud between Lil ' Kim and Minaj ,  जहाँ  many people felt the song was directed at Lil ' Kim and regarded around her feelings towards Minaj 's rise to fame .
the सोंग सन्दर्भ  Minaj 's alter-ego , Roman Zolanski , and Eminem 's alter-ego , Slim Shady .
The song garnered very positive reviews from critics ,  सबसे of जिससे praised the सोंग as a stand-out  track on the album .
An official remix featuring Minaj 's mentor , Lil  वेन , थी released  to the US iTunes Store on January 19 , 2011 .
The instrumental was used in the song  'firing स्क्वाड ' by नाल  G.A.N.G .
हाइड्रोलिक द्रव  being poured .
Hydraulic fluids , also called hydraulic liquids , are the  मीडियम by जिससे शक्ति  is transferred in hydraulic machinery .
Common hydraulic fluids are  आधारित on खनिज  oil or water .
Examples of equipment that might use hydraulic fluids include excavators and backhoes , hydraulic brakes , power steering  प्रणालियों  , transmissions , garbage trucks , aircraft flight control systems , lifts , and industrial machinery .
Hydraulic systems like the ones mentioned above will work most  efficiently if the हाइड्रोलिक  fluid used has no compressibility
महिंद्रा  Tractor
Mahindra Tractors , the farm equipment division of Mahindra & Mahindra , builds and sources tractors that  are sold  worldwide across six continents .
Mahindra is also among the top three tractor  निर्माताओं in the  world .
Mahindra has a huge consumer base in India ,  चीन और अमेरिका  and a growing base in Australia .
The company builds more tractors in India than any other manufacturer  , और रै the क्षमता to निर्माण  150,000 tractors a year .
In 1963 , M & M formed a joint venture with International Harvester to manufacture tractors carrying the  महिंद्रा nameplate  for the Indian market .
Armed with engineering , tooling and manufacturing  know-how gained  from this relationship , M & M developed its first tractor , the B-275 .
Mahindra Tractors with sales of  nearly 85,000 इकाई annually is एक of the largest  tractor companies in the world , and is number one in sales in India - the largest tractor market in the world .
To expand into  the growing ट्रैक्टर  market in China , Mahindra acquired majority stake in Jiangling .
To raise awareness  परिचय महिंद्रा in the us  , Mahindra USA announced its new sponsorship in the NASCAR Nationwide Series with R3 Motorsports , which is participating with a # 23 Mahindra Tractors Chevrolet .
The car will be  चलित by रॉबर्ट रिचर्डसन , jr. महिंद्रा  USA , Inc. announced a 17-race primary and 18-race associate sponsorship for the 2009 NASCAR Nationwide Series .
With this sponsorship ,  महिंद्रा  was the first Indian company to sponsor a car in NASCAR .
In 2008 , Mahindra was a sponsor  of the मैकडोनाल्ड मोटरस्पोर्ट  team which ran the # 81 car in the NASCAR Nationwide Series .
The POWER6 is a microprocessor  developed by  IBM that implemented the Power ISA v.2.03 .
When it became available in systems in  2007 , it succeeded  the POWER5+ as IBM 's flagship Power microprocessor .
it is भाग of the eclipz प्रोजेक्ट , कहा to have a लक्ष्य of converging ibm  's server hardware where practical ( hence `` ipz '' in the acronym : iSeries , pSeries , and zSeries ) .
The American middle class is a  सोशल क्लास in the  United States .
While the concept is typically ambiguous in popular opinion  और आम भाषा उपयोग , समकालीन सोशल वैज्ञानिकों have put  forward several , more or less congruent , theories on the American middle class .
Depending on  क्लास मॉडल  used , the middle class may constitute anywhere from 25 % to 66 % of households .
One of the first major studies  of the middle  class in America was White Collar : The American Middle Classes , published in 1951 by sociologist C. Wright Wright_Mills Mills Wright_Mills .
Later sociologists such as Dennis Gilbert of Hamilton College  commonly divide  the middle class into two sub-groups .
Constituting roughly 15 % to 20 % of households is the upper or professional middle class consisting  of अत्यधिक शिक्षित , वेतनभोगी  professionals and managers .
Constituting roughly one third of households is the lower middle class consisting   mostly of semi-professionals , skilled craftsmen and lower-level management .
Middle-class persons commonly have a comfortable standard of living  , significant आर्थिक सुरक्षा , considerable कार्य स्वायत्तता  and rely on their expertise to sustain themselves .
Members of the middle class belong to diverse groups  जिससे  overlap with each other .
Overall , middle-class  व्यक्तियों , विशेषकर upper-middle-class individuals  , are characterized by conceptualizing , creating and consulting .
Thus , college education  is एक of the  main indicators of middle-class status .
Largely attributed to the nature of  middle-class occupations , मध्य क्लास मान tend to  emphasize independence , adherence to intrinsic standards , valuing innovation and respecting non-conformity .
Politically more active than other  जनसांख्यिकी , कॉलेज  educated middle class professionals are split between the two major parties .
Income varies  considerably इससे निकट  the national median to well in excess of $ 100,000 .
Household income figures , however , do not always reflect class status  and  standard of living , as they are largely influenced by the number of income earners and fail to recognize household size .
It is therefore  संभावित लिये a विशाल , dual-earner , निम्नतर मध्य क्लास  household to out-earn a small , one-earner , upper middle class household .
The middle classes are very influential , as they encompass the majority of voters , writers , teachers , journalists , and editors   .
Most societal trends in the US originate  भीतर the मध्य  classes .
The following is a list  of शनिवार  Night Live cast members , past and present .
The cast members of Saturday Night Live were originally referred to as the `` Not Ready For Prime Time  खिलाड़ी ''  .
The original cast ( l to r ) : Laraine Newman , John Belushi , Jane Curtin  , gilda radner , डान aykroyd ,  Garrett Morris , and Chevy Chase
Ruins from the 1906 San Francisco earthquake , remembered as one of the worst natural  आपदाओं in  United States history
A disaster is a  प्राकृतिक or man-made ( or technological ) जोखिम resulting in  an event of substantial extent causing significant physical damage or destruction , loss of life , or drastic change to the environment .
A disaster can be  ostensively पारिभाषित as कोई tragic इवेंट  stemming from events such as earthquakes , floods , catastrophic accidents , fires , or explosions .
It is a phenomenon   that can cause damage to life and property and destroy the economic , social and cultural life of people .
In contemporary academia , disasters are seen as the  consequence of inappropriately प्रबंधित  risk .
These risks are the  उत्पाद of a संयोजन  of both hazard/s and vulnerability .
Hazards that strike in areas with  कम vulnerability  will never become disasters , as is the case in uninhabited regions .
Developing countries suffer the greatest costs when a disaster hits – more than 95 percent of all deaths caused by disasters occur in developing   countries , and losses due to natural disasters are 20 times greater ( as a percentage of GDP ) in developing countries than in industrialized countries .
In computing , booting ( also known as booting up ) is the initial set of  परिचालन कि a कंप्यूटर प्रणाली performs  when electrical power to the CPU is switched on .
The process begins when a computer is turned on for the first time or is re-energized after being turned off , and ends when the computer is  तैयार to perform  its normal operations .
On modern general purpose computers , this can take tens of seconds and typically  involves performing  a power-on self-test , locating and initializing peripheral devices , and then finding , loading and starting an operating system .
Many computer systems also allow these operations to be initiated by a software command without cycling power , in what is known as a soft reboot ,  हालांकि  some of the initial operations might be skipped on a soft reboot .
A boot loader is a computer program that loads the main operating system or runtime  पर्यावरण लिये the  computer after completion of the self-tests .
The computer term boot is short for  बूटस्ट्रैप or बूटस्ट्रैप लोड  and derives from the phrase to pull oneself up by one 's bootstraps .
The usage calls attention to the requirement that , if most software is loaded onto a computer by other software already running on the computer ,  कुछ यांत्रिकी जरूर मौजूद  to load initial software onto the computer .
Early computers used  a किस्में of ad-hoc  methods to get a small program into memory to solve this problem .
The invention of integrated   circuit read-only memory ( ROM ) of various types solved this paradox by allowing computers to be shipped with a start up program that could not be erased .
Growth in the capacity of ROM has allowed ever more elaborate start up  प्रक्रियाओं  to be implemented .
On general purpose computers , the boot process begins with the  निष्पादन of an आरंभिक कार्यक्रम भंडारित  in boot ROMs or read in another fashion .
In some older computers , the initial program might have been the application to run , if no  ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली  was used , or the operating system .
In  अन्य कंप्यूटर , the आरंभिक कार्यक्रम is a बूट लोडर कि may तब लोड into random-access मेमोरी ( राम ) , इससे nonvolatile  secondary storage ( such as a hard disk drive ) or , in some older computers , from a medium such as punched cards , punched tape , or magnetic tape in older computers , the binary code of an operating system or runtime environment and then execute it .
If the boot  loader is  limited in its size and capabilities , it may , instead , load a larger and more capable secondary boot loader , which would then load the operating system or runtime environment .
Some embedded systems do not require a noticeable boot sequence to begin functioning and when turned on may simply run  operational कार्यक्रम कि  are stored in ROM .
Firebird is an open source SQL relational database management system that runs on Linux ,  खिड़कियाँ , और  a variety of Unix .
The database forked from Borland 's open source edition of InterBase in 2000 ,  लकिन चूंकि firebird 1.5  the code has been largely rewritten .
Outsourcing is the contracting out  of an आतंरिक कारोबार प्रक्रम  to a third-party organization .
The practice of contracting a business process out to a third party rather than staffing it internally is  आम in the आधुनिक अर्थव्यवस्था  .
The term `` outsourcing  '' became लोकप्रिय in  the United States near the turn of the 21st century .
Outsourcing sometimes involves  transferring कर्मचारी  and assets from one firm to another , but not always .
The definition of outsourcing includes both foreign and domestic contracting , and sometimes includes offshoring , which means  relocating a कारोबार  function to another country .
Financial savings from  निम्नतर अंतरराष्ट्रीय  labor rates is a big motivation for outsourcing/offshoring .
The opposite of outsourcing is called insourcing , which entails bringing processes handled by third-party firms in-house , and is sometimes  संपन्नता via लंबवत संयोजन  .
However , a business can provide a contract service to another  कारोबार बगैर necessarily  insourcing that business process .
Human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV ) is a lentivirus (  slowly  replicating retrovirus ) that causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( AIDS ) , a condition in humans in which progressive failure of the immune system allows life-threatening opportunistic infections and cancers to thrive .
Infection with HIV occurs by the transfer of blood , semen ,  vaginal द्रव  , pre-ejaculate , or breast milk .
Within these bodily fluids , HIV is present as both free virus particles and  वायरस भीतर संक्रमित प्रतिरक्षा कोशिकाएं  .
HIV infects vital cells in the human immune system such as helper T cells (  specifically cd4 + t कोशिकाएं  ) , macrophages , and dendritic cells .
HIV infection leads to low levels of CD4+ T cells through a number of mechanisms including : apoptosis of uninfected bystander cells , direct viral killing of infected cells , and  हत्या of संक्रमित cd4+ t कोशिकाएं by cd8 cytotoxic  lymphocytes that recognize infected cells .
When CD4+ T cell numbers decline below a critical level , cell-mediated immunity is lost , and  the देह becomes progressively  more susceptible to opportunistic infections .
The  firepole  in a fire station in Toronto
A fireman 's pole ( also called a sliding pole or firepole ) is a wooden pole or a metal tube or pipe installed between floors in fire stations , allowing firefighters  responding to an सचेतक to  quickly descend to the ground floor faster than by using a standard staircase .
The device was invented in the 1870s by David Kenyon , in Chicago , Illinois ,  हालांकि it is प्रायः incorrectly  credited to the Boston Fire Department .
Mary Poppins is the title  अक्षर of a श्रेणी of children  's books written by P. L. Travers .
Throughout the Mary Poppins series , which lasted  इससे 1934 to 1988 , मरियम shepard  was the illustrator and acted as a second author .
The books centre on a  जादुई अंग्रेज़ी  nanny , Mary Poppins .
She is blown by the East wind to Number  सत्रह  Cherry Tree Lane , London , and into the Banks ' household to care for their children .
Encounters with chimney sweeps , shopkeepers  और विभिन्न adventures follow जबतक मरियम poppins  abruptly leaves , i.e. , `` pops-out '' .
The adventures take  प्लेस  over a total of eight books .
However , only the  पहला तीन किताबे  feature Mary Poppins arriving and leaving .
The later five books recount previously unrecorded adventures from her  असली तीन विज़िट  .
As P. L. Travers explains in her introduction   to Mary Poppins in the Park , `` She can not forever arrive and depart . ''
The books were adapted in 1964  into a musical  Disney film starring Julie Andrews and Dick Van Dyke .
In 2004 , Disney Theatrical produced a  स्टेज musical  adaptation in the West End theatre .
The stage   musical was transferred to Broadway in 2006 where it ran until its closing on March 3 , 2013 .
it रै महरूम अत्यधिक  successful , as was the 1964 film .
The Last Song is a 2010 American coming of age teen romantic drama film developed  alongside  Nicholas Sparks ' novel by the same name .
The film was directed by Julie Anne Robinson in her feature film directorial debut and  co-written by  Sparks and Jeff Van Wie .
The  पिछला सोंग सितारों miley सायरस  , Liam Hemsworth , and Greg Kinnear and follows a troubled teenager as she reconnects with her estranged father and falls in love during a summer in a quiet Southern United States beach town .
The film is  वितरित  by Touchstone Pictures .
Sparks was approached to  लिखें दोनो the  film 's screenplay and the novel .
Sparks completed the screenplay in January 2009 , prior to  the  completion of the novel , making The Last Song his first script to be optioned for film .
The setting , originally in North Carolina like  the अनोखा ,  moved to Georgia after the states had campaigned for months to host production .
Upon beginning production in Tybee Island , Georgia and nearby Savannah , The Last Song became the first movie to be  both  shot and set in Tybee Island .
Filming lasted  इससे जून 15 to अगस्त  18 , 2009 with much of it occurring on the island 's beach and pier .
The Last Song was  originally  scheduled for wide release on January 8 , 2010 , but was postponed to March 31 , 2010 .
Written  simlish
Simlish is a fictional language  प्रदर्शित in  EA Games ' Sim series of games .
it  debuted in SimCopter , and has been especially prominent in The Sims , The Sims 2 and The Sims 3 .
The  सीम  development team created the unique Simlish language by experimenting with fractured Ukrainian , French , Latin , Finnish , English , Fijian , Cebuano , and Tagalog .
Simlish can also be heard in SimCity 4 , SimCity Societies and SimCity 2013 , but  दूर कम  frequently .
Civilized Creatures in Spore can also be taught to speak  simlish  .
It is also  प्रदर्शित  to an extent in Firaxis Games ' Sid Meier 's SimGolf .
Designer Will Wright was conscious of the need for dialogue  in the खेल  , but thought that using a real language would make it sound too repetitive and would also be too costly to hire translators for world languages .
Initially , inspired by the Native American code talkers of World War II , Sims creator Will Wright and language expert Marc Gimbel suggested experimenting with the Navajo language to create  simlish  .
However , they ultimately decided that Simlish worked best as a `` language '' made up of gibberish words that could n't  be अनूदित  , so that its meaning would be left open to the imagination of the player .
Wright later commented that using `` nonsense language '' turned out to be the right development choice , as people were capable of imagining it  अधिक realistically than a कंप्यूटर could सिमुलेट  a real one .
The actual sound of Simlish was created  improvisationally  by voice actors Stephen Kearin and Gerri Lawlor .
An example of Ultrasonic Testing ( UT ) on blade  जड़ें of a v2500  IAE aircraft engine .
Step 1 : The UT probe is placed on  the रूट of the  blades to be inspected with the help of a special borescope tool ( video probe ) .
Step 2 : Instrument  जमावट हैं  input .
Step 3 :  the  probe is scanned over the blade root .
In this case , an indication ( peak in the data ) through the red line ( or gate ) indicates a good blade ; an indication to the left of that range  indicates a  crack .
principle  of ultrasonic testing .
LEFT : A probe sends a sound wave into a  परीक्षण सामग्री  .
There are two indications , one from the initial pulse of the probe , and  the  second due to the back wall echo .
RIGHT : A defect creates a third indication and  simultaneously reduces  the amplitude of the back wall indication .
the गहराई  of the defect is determined by the ratio D/E
In ultrasonic testing ( UT ) , very short ultrasonic pulse-waves with center frequencies ranging from 0.1-15 MHz and occasionally up to 50 MHz  हैं शुभारम्भ into सामग्री to detect आतंरिक खामियां or to  characterize materials .
A common example is ultrasonic thickness measurement , which  परीक्षण the मोटाई of the  test object , for example , to monitor pipework corrosion .
अल्ट्रासोनिक  testing is often performed on steel and other metals and alloys , though it can also be used on concrete , wood and composites , albeit with less resolution .
It is a form of non-destructive testing used in many industries including aerospace , automotive  और अन्य परिवहन सेक्टर  .
The vas deferens ( plural : vasa deferentia ) , also called ductus  deferens ( लैटिन : `` carrying-away पोत  '' ; plural : ductus deferentes ) , is part of the male anatomy of many vertebrates ; they transport sperm from the epididymis in anticipation of ejaculation .
Vascular ischemia of the toes with  characteristic  cyanosis .
In medicine , ischemia , also spelled as ischaemia or ischæmia , ( ; from Greek language ισχαιμία , ischaimía ; isch- root denoting a restriction or thinning or to  मेक or grow thin/lean , haema रक्त ) is a प्रतिबंध in रक्त सप्लाई to ऊतकों , causing a shortage  of oxygen and glucose needed for cellular metabolism ( to keep tissue alive ) .
Ischemia is generally caused by problems with blood vessels , with  resultant क्षति  to or dysfunction of tissue .
it भी अर्थात् लोकल रक्ताल्पता  in a given part of a body sometimes resulting from congestion ( such as vasoconstriction , thrombosis or embolism ) .
Down syndrome ( DS ) or Down 's syndrome , also known as trisomy 21 , is a genetic disorder caused by the presence of all or part of a third copy  of chromosome  21 .
Down syndrome is the most common  chromosome तबदीली  in humans .
It is typically associated with a delay in  संज्ञानात्मक क्षमता ( दिमागी retardation  , or MR ) and physical growth , and a particular set of facial characteristics .
The average IQ of young adults with Down syndrome is around 50 ,  whereas यंग  adults without the condition typically have an IQ of 100 .
( MR has historically  महरूम  defined as an IQ below 70 . )
A large proportion of individuals  साथ bas  syndrome have a severe degree of intellectual disability .
Down syndrome is named after John Langdon  bas , the अंग्रेजों  physician who described the syndrome in 1866 .
The condition was clinically described earlier by Jean Etienne Dominique Esquirol in 1838 and Edouard  seguin in  1844 .
Down syndrome was identified as a chromosome 21 trisomy by Dr. Jérôme  lejeune in 1959  .
Down syndrome can be identified in a baby at birth or  पहले जनम  by prenatal screening .
Pregnancies with this diagnosis are  प्रायः  terminated .
The CDC estimates that about one of every 691  शिशु born in the  United States each year is born with Down syndrome .
Many children with Down syndrome are educated in regular school classes while others  आवश्यकता specialised शैक्षणिक  facilities .
Some children  ग्रैजुएट इससे  high school , and , in the US , there are increasing opportunities for participating in post-secondary education .
शिक्षा और उचित  care has been shown to improve quality of life significantly .
Many  वयस्कों साथ bas सिंड्रोम हैं समर्थ to कार्य at  paid employment in the community , while others require a more sheltered work environment .
Hot flashes ( also known as hot flushes , or night sweats if  वे  happen at night ) are a symptom which may have several other causes , but which is often caused by the changing hormone levels that are characteristic of menopause .
The Servicemen 's Readjustment Act of 1944 ( P.L . 78-346 , 58 Stat  .  284m ) , known informally as the G.I . Bill , was a law that provided a range of benefits for returning World War II veterans ( commonly referred to as G.I.s ) .
Benefits included low-cost mortgages , low-interest loans to start a business or farm , cash payments of tuition and living expenses to attend college , high school or  वोकेशनल शिक्षा , as खूब as  one year of unemployment compensation .
It was available to every veteran who had been on active duty during the war years for at least ninety days and had not  महरूम dishonorably  discharged ; combat was not required .
By the end of the program in 1956 , roughly 2.2 million veterans had used the G.I . Bill education benefits in order to attend colleges or universities , and an  अतिरिक्त 6.6 लाख प्रयुक्त ये लाभ लिये  some kind of training program .
Since the  असली 1944 विधि , the पद रै आइये to शामिल अन्य दिग्गज  benefit programs created to assist veterans of subsequent wars as well as peacetime service .
Historians and economists consider the  g.i  . Bill a major political success—especially in contrast to the treatments of World War I veterans—and a major contribution to America 's stock of human capital that sped long-term economic growth .
The Watergate scandal was a political scandal that occurred in the United States in the 1970s as a result of the June 17 , 1972 break-in at the Democratic National Committee  headquarters at the  Watergate office complex in Washington , D.C. , and the Nixon administration 's attempted cover-up of its involvement .
The scandal  आखिरकार led to the इस्तीफा of रिचर्ड  Nixon , the President of the United States , on August 9 , 1974 — the only resignation of a U.S. President .
The scandal  also  resulted in the indictment , trial , conviction , and incarceration of forty-three persons , dozens of whom were Nixon 's top administration officials .
The affair began with the arrest of five men for breaking and entering into the Democratic National Committee ( DNC )  मुख्यालय at the वाटरगेट जटिल on जून 17 , 1972  .
The Federal Bureau of Investigation ( FBI ) connected cash found on the  burglars to a slush निधि प्रयुक्त by  the Committee for the Re-Election of the President , the official organization of Nixon 's campaign .
In July 1973 , as evidence mounted against the president 's staff , including testimony provided by former staff members in an investigation conducted by the Senate Watergate Committee  , it थी नाज़िल कि अध्यक्ष निक्सन था a tape-recording  system in his offices and he had recorded many conversations .
Recordings from these tapes implicated the president , revealing he  था  attempted to cover up the questionable ( and illegal ) goings-on that had taken place during his administration , both before and after the break-in .
After a protracted series of bitter court battles , the U.S. Supreme Court  unanimously शासित कि the अध्यक्ष  had to hand over the tapes to government investigators ; he ultimately complied .
Facing near-certain impeachment in the House of Representatives and a strong  सम्भावना of a conviction  in the Senate , Nixon resigned the presidency on August 9 , 1974 .
His  successor , जेराल्ड  Ford , then issued a pardon to him .
Elizabeth Imogene Webber ( formerly Lansing and Spencer ) is a fictional character on the ABC  दिन साबुन ओपेरा  General Hospital .
Elizabeth is the granddaughter of Dr.  स्टीव हार्डी ( जॉन  Beradino ) , one of the originating core characters of the series .
Rebecca Herbst originated the character on August 1 , 1997 and has   been the only contract actress to play the role .
Elizabeth is part of two supercouple pairings , Lucky Spencer and Elizabeth Webber and Jason Morgan and  एलिज़ाबेथ  Webber .
The United States presidency of Ronald Reagan , also known as the Reagan administration , was a Republican administration headed by Ronald Reagan from  जनवरी 20 , 1981  , to January 20 , 1989 .
Domestically , the administration favored reducing government programs and introduced the  largest across-the-board  tax cuts in American history .
The economic policies enacted in 1981 , known as ``  reaganomics  `` , were an example of supply-side economics .
Reagan  aimed to प्रोत्साहित उद्यमिता और  limit the growth of social spending , as well as the reduction of regulation and inflation .
Economic growth saw a strong recovery in the 1980s  , helping reagan  to win a landslide re-election .
The national debt increased significantly  ,  however .
Regarding  विदेशी नीति , the प्रशासन थी steadfastly  anti-communist , calling the Soviet Union an `` evil empire `` and ending 1970s détente .
Reagan accelerated  the विशाल buildup of the सैन्य प्रारंभ by  his predecessor , including an invasion of Grenada , the first major overseas action by U.S. troops since the end of the Vietnam War .
The `` Reagan Doctrine `` controversially granted aid to paramilitary forces seeking to overthrow communist  सरकारें  , particularly in war-torn Central America and Afghanistan .
Reagan also  प्रचारित नई technologies ऐसे as मिसाइल रक्षा  systems in order to confront the Soviets and their allies .
In diplomacy , Reagan forged a strong alliance with UK Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher , and he met with Soviet  सामान्य सचिव मिखाइल  Gorbachev four times , aiming to shrink the superpowers ' nuclear arsenals .
Reagan 's presidency has been termed the `` Reagan Revolution '' , or the Age of Reagan in recognition of the  राजनैतिक  realignment both within and beyond the U.S. in favor of his brand of conservatism and his faith in free markets .
The Reagan administration worked toward the collapse of Soviet  साम्यवादी , और it किया पतन  just as he left office .
Victory in the Cold War led to  a unipolar संसार साथ  the U.S. as the world 's sole superpower .
While the damaging Iran-Contra affair engulfed several Reagan aides during his second term , Reagan  खुद बाएँ दफ्तर साथ a 63 प्रतिशत  approval rating , one of the higher approval ratings of departing presidents .
After years of unstinting praise from the right , and unrelenting criticism from the left , historian David Henry finds that by 2009 a consensus had emerged  among  scholars that Reagan revived conservatism and turned the nation to the right by demonstrating a `` pragmatic conservatism '' that promoted ideology within the constraints imposed by the divided political system .
Furthermore , says Henry , the consensus viewpoint agrees that he revived faith in the  प्रेसिडेंसी और अमरीकी  self-confidence , and contributed critically to ending the Cold War .
Crude death rate by country (  2006 )  .
Mortality rate is a measure of the number of deaths ( in general , or due  to a विशिष्ट  cause ) in a population .
Scaled to the size of that population , per unit of  समय  .
Mortality rate is typically expressed in units of deaths per 1000 individuals per year ; thus ,  a मृत्यु रेट of 9.5 ( आउट of 1000 ) in a जनसांख्यिकी  of 1,000 would mean 9.5 deaths per year in that entire population , or 0.95 % out of the total .
It is distinct from morbidity rate , which refers  to the क्रमांक of individuals  in poor health during a given time period ( the prevalence rate ) or the number of newly appearing cases of the disease per unit of time ( incidence rate ) .
The term `` mortality `` is also sometimes inappropriately used to refer to the number of deaths among a set of diagnosed hospital cases for a disease or injury ,  बल्कि than लिये the सामान्य जनसांख्यिकी of a देश or जातीय  group .
इस बीमारी मृत्यु  statistic is more precisely referred to as `` case fatality rate `` ( CFR ) .
One  distinguishes:
the crude मौत रेट  , the total number of deaths per year per 1000 people .
the crude death rate for the whole world is about 8.37  प्रति 1000 प्रति साल according  to the current CIA World Factbook .
The  perinatal मृत्यु रेट , the  sum of neonatal deaths and fetal deaths ( stillbirths ) per 1000 births .
The maternal mortality ratio , the number  of मातृ  deaths per 100,000 live births in same time period .
the मातृ मृत्यु रेट , the क्रमांक of मातृ मौतों प्रति 1,000 महिलाओं of reproductive आयु in the जनसांख्यिकी ( generally पारिभाषित as 15–44 सालो of आयु ) .
The infant  मृत्यु रेट , the क्रमांक of मौतों  of children less than 1 year old per 1000 live births .
The child mortality rate , the  क्रमांक of  deaths of children less than 5 years old per 1000 live births .
The standardised mortality ratio ( SMR ) - This represents a proportional comparison to the numbers of deaths that would have been expected if the population had been of a  मानक संयोजन in शर्तें of आयु  , gender , etc .
The age-specific mortality rate ( ASMR ) - This refers to the total number of deaths per year per 1000 people of  a दिए आयु ( e.g . आयु 62  last birthday ) .
In regard to the or failure of  चिकित्सा उपचार or प्रक्रियाओं , एक होता  also distinguish:
The early mortality rate , the  कुल क्रमांक of मौतों in the जल्दी चरण  of an ongoing treatment , or in the period immediately following an treatment .
The late mortality rate , the total number of deaths in the late stages of an ongoing  उपचार ,  or a significant length of time after an acute treatment .
Note that the crude death rate as defined above and applied to a whole population  can दे a भ्रामक छाप  .
The crude death rate depends on the age ( and gender ) specific mortality rates and the age (  और लिंग ) वितरण of  the population .
The number of deaths per 1000 people can be higher for developed nations than in less-developed countries , despite life expectancy being higher in developed countries due to standards of  health  being better .
This happens because developed countries typically have a completely different population age distribution , with a much higher proportion of  पुरानी लोगों , due to दोनो  lower recent birth rates and lower mortality rates .
A more complete picture of mortality is given by a life table which shows the mortality rate separately for each  आयु  .
A life table is necessary to  दे a शुभ अनुमान  of life expectancy .
An otoacoustic emission (  oae ) is a  sound which is generated from within the inner ear .
Having been predicted by Thomas Gold in 1948 , its existence was first  demonstrated experimentally by दाउद kemp  in 1978 and otoacoustic emissions have since been shown to arise by a number of different cellular mechanisms within the inner ear .
Studies have shown that OAEs disappear  बाद the भीतरी कान रै महरूम क्षतिग्रस्त  , so OAEs are often used in the laboratory and the clinic as a measure of inner ear health .
Broadly speaking , there are two types of otoacoustic emissions : spontaneous otoacoustic  emissions  ( SOAEs ) , which can occur without external stimulation , and evoked otoacoustic emissions ( EOAEs ) , which require an evoking stimulus .
hurricane टॉमस थी the उन्नीसवीं  named storm and twelfth hurricane of the 2010 Atlantic hurricane season .
Tomas  विकसित इससे a तीव्र वेव  east of the Windward Islands on October 29 .
Quickly intensifying into a hurricane , it  स्थानांतरित through the windward  Islands and passed very near Saint Lucia .
बाद reaching श्रेणी  2 status on the Saffir-Simpson scale , Tomas quickly weakened to a tropical storm in the central Caribbean Sea , due to strong wind shear and dry air .
Tomas later regained hurricane status as it reorganized  निकट the  Windward passage .
throughout the hurricane  's path , 71 people are known to have been killed , 14 of whom were in Saint Lucia .
Monetary  नुकसान throughout the  Windward Islands were estimated at US $ 588 million , mainly in Saint Lucia .
In the   wake of the storm in Haiti , flooding intensified an ongoing cholera outbreak indirectly causing more fatalities .
According to a report released in December 2010 , 55  लोगों यहूद मारे in क्यूबा और hispanola  , though the distribution of these fatalities are unknown .
overall क्षति  from the storm was at least $ 741 million .
Victoria Jackson ( born August 2 , 1959 ) is an American comedian , actress , satirist , singer and internet blogger best known as a cast member  of the  NBC television sketch comedy series Saturday Night Live ( SNL ) from 1986 to 1992 .
She has received attention as a vocal critic of President Barack Obama , and is  an क्रियाशील भागीदार in the चाय पार्टी  movement .
Postmodern literature is literature characterized by heavy reliance on techniques like fragmentation , paradox , and questionable  narrators , और is प्रायः ( हालांकि नहीं exclusively  ) defined as a style or trend which emerged in the post–World War II era .
Postmodern works are seen  as a प्रतिक्रिया विरूद्ध  Enlightenment thinking and Modernist approaches to literature .
Postmodern literature , like  postmodernism as  a whole , tends to resist definition or classification as a `` movement '' .
Indeed , the convergence of postmodern literature with various modes of critical theory , particularly reader-response and deconstructionist approaches , and the subversions of the implicit contract between author , text and reader by which its works are often characterised , have led to pre-modern fictions such as Cervantes ' Don Quixote ( 1605,1615 ) and Laurence Sterne 's eighteenth-century satire Tristram Shandy being retrospectively  inducted  into the fold .
While there is little consensus on the precise characteristics , scope , and importance of  postmodern साहित्य  , as is often the case with artistic movements , postmodern literature is commonly defined in relation to a precursor .
For example , a  postmodern  literary work tends not to conclude with the neatly tied-up ending as is often found in modernist literature , but often parodies it .
Postmodern authors tend to celebrate   chance over craft , and further employ metafiction to undermine the writer 's authority .
Another characteristic of postmodern literature is the questioning of distinctions  between ऊँची और  low culture through the use of pastiche , the combination of subjects and genres not previously deemed fit for literature .
Enigma  is an इलेक्ट्रॉनिक musical प्रोजेक्ट संस्थापित in जर्मनी by माइकल cretu , दाउद fairstein और फ़्रैंक पीटरसन in 1990 .
The Romanian-born  cretu  conceived the Enigma project while working in Germany , but based his recording studio A.R.T . Studios in Ibiza , Spain , from the early 1990s until May 2009 , where he has recorded all of Enigma 's studio releases to date .
Cretu is both  the  composer and the producer of the project .
उसके पूर्व बीवी  , pop singer Sandra , often provided vocals on Enigma tracks .
Jens Gad co-arranged and played guitar on three of the  पहेली एल्बम  .
Peter Cornelius  भी contributed  to Enigma during the 1990s .
Seven studio albums have been produced under the  नाम of the  project .
Scooby-Doo is an American animated cartoon franchise , comprising several animated television series produced from 1969 to the  उपस्थित दिन .
The original  श्रेणी , scooby-doo  , Where Are You !
, was created for  hanna-barbera प्रोडक्शन्स by लेखक  Joe Ruby and Ken Spears in 1969 .
This Saturday morning cartoon series featured four teenagers— Fred Jones , Daphne Blake , Velma  dinkley , और norville  `` Shaggy '' Rogers — and their talking brown Great Dane dog named Scooby-Doo , who solve mysteries involving supposedly supernatural creatures through a series of antics and missteps .
following the कामयाबी of the असली श्रेणी  , Hanna-Barbera and its successor Warner Bros . Animation have produced numerous follow-up and spin-off animated series and several related works , including television specials and telefilms , a line of direct-to-video films , and two Warner Bros. –produced theatrical feature films .
Some versions of Scooby-Doo feature  अलग विसंगतियाँ on the दिखाएँ 's अलौकिक थीम , और शामिल  characters such as Scooby 's cousin Scooby-Dum and nephew Scrappy-Doo in addition to or instead of some of the original characters .
Scooby-Doo was originally  ब्रॉडकास्ट on सीबीएस इससे 1969 to 1976  , when it moved to ABC .
ABC aired the show until canceling it in 1986 , and  प्रस्तुत a spin-off  featuring the characters as children , A Pup Named Scooby-Doo , from 1988 until 1991 .
Two new Scooby-Doo series , What 's  नई  , Scooby-Doo ?
and Shaggy and Scooby-Doo Get a a Clue ! ] ] , aired as part of Kids WB on The WB network and  इसके successor ,  The CW network , from 2002 until 2008 .
The most  हाल scooby-doo  series , Scooby-Doo !
Mystery Incorporated , aired  on कार्टून संजाल  from 2010 to 2013 .
दोहराव of the विभिन्न  Scooby-Doo series are broadcast frequently on Cartoon Network and Boomerang in the United States and other countries .
Call of Duty is a first-person and third-person shooter  computer/ वीडियो  game franchise .
The series began on the PC , and  बाद विस्तारित  to consoles and handhelds .
Several  spin-off खेल  have also been released .
The earlier games in the series are set primarily in World War II , this  शामिल : कॉल of ड्यूटी , कॉल  of Duty 2 , and Call of Duty 3 .
Beginning with  आधुनिक warfare  , which is set in modern times , the series has shifted focus away from World War II .
Call of Duty 4 : Modern  warfare ( released नवम्बर 2007 ) थी  followed by Call of Duty : World at War and Call of Duty : Modern Warfare 2 .
Black Ops ( released November 2010 ) takes place in the Cold War , while Modern Warfare 3 ( released November 2011 ) takes  प्लेस in the near-future सेटिंग  .
Black Ops 2 ( Released November 13 ,  2012  ) takes place in the year 2025 .
The Call of Duty games are published and owned  by एक्टिविजन साथ aspyr  Media publishing it for Apple OS X .
While the studio Infinity Ward primarily still develops them , Treyarch has also developed  अनेक of the  titles with the release of the studios ' games interlaced with each other .
Some games  have महरूम विकसित by धूसर पदार्थ इंटरैक्टिव  , Spark Unlimited , Amaze Entertainment , n-Space , Rebellion Developments , Ideaworks Game Studio , Sledgehammer Games and nStigate Games .
The games use a variety of engines  , सहित the id तकनीक  3 , the Treyarch NGL , and the IW 5.0 .
Other products in the franchise include a  लकीर of कार्रवाई आंकड़े designed by  Plan-B Toys , a card game created by Upper Deck , and a comic book mini-series published by WildStorm .
As of November 11 , 2011 ,  the कॉल  Of Duty series have sold over 100 million copies .
As of March   31 , 2012 there are 40 million monthly active players across all of the Call of Duty titles , with 10 million Call of Duty : Elite users and 2 million paying annual members .
Over 1.6 billion hours of online gameplay have been logged Modern Warfare  3 चूंकि  its 2011 release .
The  एस्टेट कर in the संयुक्त राज्य is a कर imposed on the ट्रांसफ़र of the `` taxable एस्टेट `` of a मृतक व्यक्ति , whether ऐसे प्रॉपर्टी is transferred via a होगा , according to the राज्य कानून of intestacy or वरना बना as an घटना of the मौत of the मालिक , ऐसे as a ट्रांसफ़र of प्रॉपर्टी इससे an intestate एस्टेट or विश्वास , or the भुगतान of निश्चित जीवन बीमे लाभ or वित्तीय खाता रकम to beneficiaries .
The estate tax is one part of  the एकीकृत तोहफा  and Estate Tax system in the United States .
The other part of the system , the gift tax , imposes a tax on transfers of  प्रॉपर्टी दौरान a व्यक्ति 's जीवन  ; the gift tax prevents avoidance of the estate tax should a person want to give away his/her estate .
In addition to the federal government , many states also impose an estate tax , with the state version called either an estate tax  or an उत्तराधिकार  tax .
Opponents of the estate tax call  it the `` मौत कर  '' .
If an asset is left to a spouse or a Federally recognized charity , the tax  प्रायः करता नहीं लागू  .
In  जोड , up to $ 5,250,000 can be दिए by an व्यक्तिगत , पहले and/or upon उनके मौत , बगैर रूष्ट संघीय तोहफा or एस्टेट कर .
Gavin McGregor Rossdale ( born 30 October 1967 ) is an English actor and musician , known as the lead singer  और लय guitarist of the चट्टान  band Bush .
Following Bush 's  विरह in 2002 , जिससे lasted लिये  eight years , he was the lead singer and guitarist for Institute , and later began a solo career .
When performing solo , Gavin plays songs from his extensive musical  पुस्तकालयों  .
Rossdale has been  क्रमित in the शीर्ष  100 Heavy Metal Vocalists by Hit Parader ( # 75 ) .
Raffaello Sanzio da Urbino ( April 6 or  कूच 28 , 1483  – April 6 , 1520 ) , better known simply as Raphael , was an Italian painter and architect of the High Renaissance .
His work is admired for its clarity of form and ease of composition and for its visual  उपलब्धि of the neoplatonic  ideal of human grandeur .
Together with Michelangelo and Leonardo da Vinci , he forms the  परंपरागत  trinity of great masters of that period .
Raphael was enormously productive , running an unusually  विशाल कार्यशाला , और  despite his death at 37 , a large body of his work remains .
Many  of उसके works हैं मिला in  the Vatican Palace , where the frescoed Raphael Rooms were the central , and the largest , work of his career .
The best known work is The School of Athens in  the  Vatican Stanza della Segnatura .
After his early years in Rome much of his work was self-designed , but for the most part executed by the workshop from his drawings , with considerable loss  of विशेषता  .
He was extremely influential in his  आजीवन , हालांकि  outside Rome his work was mostly known from his collaborative printmaking .
After his death , the influence of his great rival Michelangelo was more widespread until the 18th and 19th centuries ,  जब राफेल 's अधिक निर्मल  and harmonious qualities were again regarded as the highest models .
His career falls naturally into three phases and three styles , first described by Giorgio Vasari : his early years in Umbria , then a period of about four years ( from 1504–1508  ) absorbing the कलाकारी परंपराओं  of Florence , followed by his last hectic and triumphant twelve years in Rome , working for two Popes and their close associates .
Julia Fiona  रॉबर्ट्स ( born  October 28 , 1967 ) is an American actress .
She became a Hollywood star after headlining the romantic comedy Pretty Woman  ( 1990  ) , which grossed $ 464 million worldwide .
After receiving Golden Globe Awards and Academy Award nominations for Steel Magnolias ( 1989 ) and Pretty Woman , she won the  अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन  Actress for her performance in Erin Brockovich ( 2000 ) .
Her films The Pelican Brief ( 1993 ) , My Best Friend 's Wedding ( 1997 ) , Mystic Pizza ( 1988 ) , Notting Hill ( 1999 ) , Runaway Bride ( 1999 ) , Ocean 's Eleven ( 2001 ) , Ocean 's Twelve ( 2004 ) , Charlie Wilson 's War ( 2007 ) , Valentine 's Day ( 2010 ) , Eat Pray Love ( 2010 ) , and Mirror Mirror ( 2012 ) have  collectively brought बक्सा दफ्तर रसीदें of over $ 2.6 अरब , बनाना  her one of the most successful actresses in terms of box office receipts .
Roberts had become one of the highest-paid actresses in the world , topping The Hollywood Reporters annual `` power list  '' of top-earning  female stars from 2005 to 2006 .
Her fee for 1990 's Pretty Woman was $ 300,000 ; in 2003 , she was paid an unprecedented $ 25  लाख लिये उसके भूमिका  in Mona Lisa Smile ( 2003 ) .
As of 2010 ,  रॉबर्ट्स 's जाल  worth was estimated to be $ 140 million .
Roberts has been named one of People magazine 's ``  50 सबसे खूबसूरत  People in the World '' eleven times , tied with Halle Berry .
In 2011 , she was named one of the `` 100 Hottest Women of  all-time  '' by Men 's Health .
In 2001 , Ladies Home Journal ranked her as the 11th most  शक्तिशाली स्त्री  in the United States .
Mark Elliot  zuckerberg ( born  May 14 , 1984 ) is an American computer programmer and Internet entrepreneur .
He is  बेहतरीन  known as one of five co-founders of the social networking website Facebook .
As of April 2013 , Zuckerberg is the chairman and chief  कार्यपालिका of फेसबुक , inc. और in  2013 his personal wealth was estimated to be US $ 13 .3 billion .
Together with his college roommates and fellow Harvard University students Eduardo Saverin , Andrew McCollum , Dustin  moskovitz और क्रिस ह्यूजेस , zuckerberg  launched Facebook from Harvard 's dormitory rooms .
The group then introduced Facebook onto other campuses nationwide and moved to Palo Alto , California , United States ( U.S. ) shortly  afterwards .
In 2007 , at the age of  twenty-three सालो , zuckerberg became a अरबपति  as a result of Facebook and the number of Facebook users worldwide reached a total of one billion in 2012 .
Zuckerberg was involved in various legal disputes that were initiated by others in the group , who claimed a share of the company based upon their involvement during the  विकास phase of  Facebook .
Since 2010 , Zuckerberg has been named among the 100  wealthiest और सबसे influential  people in the world by Time magazine as a part of its Person of the Year accolade .
Zuckerberg was played by actor Jesse Eisenberg in the 2010  हॉलीवुड फिल्मी the सोशल संजाल  in which the rise of Facebook is portrayed .
The Mayflower was the ship that in 1620 transported 102 English Pilgrims ,  सहित a कोर समूह of separatists  , to New England .
Their  स्टोरी is एक  of travail and survival in a harsh New World environment .
framedthe
Committee of Ways  और अर्थात् is the मुख्य  tax -writing committee of the United States House of Representatives .
Members of the Ways and Means Committee are not allowed to serve on any other House Committees unless they apply for a waiver from  उनके पार्टी 's congressional  leadership .
The Committee has jurisdiction over all taxation , tariffs and  अन्य revenue-raising  measures , as well as a number of other programs including:
सोशल  Security
बेरोजगारी  benefits
medicare
Enforcement of child  support  laws
Temporary Assistance  लिये मोहताज  Families , a federal welfare program
Foster  परवाह  and adoption programs
The U.S. Constitution requires that all bills regarding taxation  जरूर originate in the हाउस  of Representatives .
Since House procedure is that all bills regarding taxation must go through this committee , the committee is very influential , as is its Senate   counterpart , the U.S. Senate Committee on Finance .
The Ways and Means Committee in the 111th Congress was chaired by Charlie Rangel , who had taken a  छोड़ of  absence as chairman until House ethics violations were resolved .
However , his leave of absence as chairman was ruled to be  a  resignation .
Pete Stark resigned as acting chairman , so  sander levin  held that position until the start of the 112th Congress .
Dave Camp became the committee chair for the 112th Congress  , after the  Republicans won control of the House in the 2010 election .
The blue whale ( Balaenoptera musculus ) is a marine  स्तनधारी belonging to the suborder  of baleen whales ( called Mysticeti ) .
At in length and or more in weight , it is the largest known animal to have  कभी  existed .
Long and slender , the blue whale 's body can be various shades of bluish-grey dorsally  और somewhat हल्का underneath  .
There are at least three distinct subspecies : B. m. musculus of the North Atlantic and North Pacific , B. m. intermedia of the Southern Ocean and B. m.  brevicauda ( भी  known as the pygmy blue whale ) found in the Indian Ocean and South Pacific Ocean .
B.  m. इंडिका , मिला in the  Indian Ocean , may be another subspecies .
As with other baleen whales , its diet consists almost exclusively of small  crustaceans ज्ञात as  krill .
ब्लू whales यहूद abundant  in nearly all the oceans on Earth until the beginning of the twentieth century .
For over a  सदी , वे यहूद hunted  almost to extinction by whalers until protected by the international community in 1966 .
A 2002 report estimated there were 5,000 to 12,000 blue whales worldwide , located in at least five  समूह  .
More recent research into  the सानो  subspecies suggests this may be an underestimate .
Before whaling , the largest population was in the Antarctic ,  क्रमांकन लगभग  239,000 ( range 202,000 to 311,000 ) .
There remain only much  smaller  ( around 2,000 ) concentrations in each of the eastern North Pacific , Antarctic , and Indian Ocean groups .
There are two more groups in the North Atlantic ,  और at तनिक दो  in the Southern Hemisphere .
the ग्लोब  artichoke ( Cynara cardunculus var . scolymus ) is a variety of a species of thistle cultivated as a food .
The edible  पदार्थ is कलियों कि रूप भीतर  the flower heads before the flowers come into bloom .
The buds go away or change to a coarse , barely edible form when  the पुष्प blooms  .
The uncultivated or wild variety  of the प्रजाति  is called a cardoon .
It is a perennial plant  देशी to the भूमध्यसागरीय  region .
The United States one hundred-dollar bill ( $ 100 ) is a  denomination  of United States currency .
u.S. statesman , आविष्कारक , और  diplomat Benjamin Franklin is currently featured on the obverse of the bill .
On the reverse of the banknote is an image of  स्वतंत्रता हॉल  .
The $ 100 bill is the largest denomination that has been printed since July 13 , 1969 , when the denominations of $ 500 , $ 1,000  , $ 5,000 ,  and $ 10,000 were retired .
The Bureau of Engraving  and Printing  says the average life of a $ 100 bill in circulation is 90 months ( 7.5 years ) before it is replaced due to wear and tear .
The bills are also commonly referred to as ``  benjamins '' , in  reference to the use of Benjamin Franklin 's portrait on the denomination , or `` C-Notes '' , based on the Roman numeral for 100 .
The bill is one of two denominations printed today that does not feature a President of the United  राज्य ; the अन्य is the $ 10 विधेयक , featuring  Alexander Hamilton .
The time on the clock of Independence Hall on the reverse ,  according to the u.S. ब्यूरो of नक्काशी  and Printing , shows approximately 4:10 .
One hundred hundred-dollar bills are delivered by Federal Reserve Banks in mustard-colored straps ( $ 10,000   ) .
The Series 2009 $ 100 bill  redesign थी अनावरण on अप्रैल 21 , 2010 , और थी  to be issued to the public on February 11 , 2011 , but production was shut down in December 2010 because as many as 30 % were unusable due to a manufacturing flaw .
A vertical crease in the paper reveals a blank  स्पेस on the विधेयक  when pulled out .
In their replacement , and  continuing the ऊँची  demand of this denomination , the Series 2006A was launched retaining the previous design ( 1996-generation ) .
On April 24 , 2013 , the Federal Reserve announced the new $ 100 bill would  डालें परिसंचरण  on October 8 , 2013 .
King David in  robes of a बीज़ान्टिन  emperor .
Miniature  इससे the  Paris Psalter .
David ( ; ISO 259-3 Dawid ; ' ; Strong 's : Daveed ) according to the Hebrew Bible , was the second king of the  संयुक्त किंगडम of इसराईल , और according  to the New Testament Gospels of Matthew and Luke , an ancestor of Jesus .
His life is conventionally dated to c. 1040–970 BCE , his reign over Judah c. 1010–1002 BCE , and his reign over the United Kingdom of Israel c.  1002–970 bce .
The Books of Samuel , 1 Kings , and 1 Chronicles are the only sources of information on David , although the Tel Dan stele ( dated c. 850–835 BCE ) contains the phrase ( bytdwd ) , read as `` House of David '' , which most scholars take as  पुष्टि of the अस्तित्व in the mid-9th सदी bce of a  Judean royal dynasty called the House of David .
He is depicted as a righteous king , although not without faults , as well as an acclaimed warrior , musician ,  और कवि , traditionally credited लिये composing अनेक  of the psalms contained in the Book of Psalms .
David  is सेंट्रल to यहूदी  , Christian , and Islamic doctrine and culture .
Biblical tradition  maintains  that a direct descendant of David will be the Messiah .
In Islam he is  माना to be  a prophet and the king of a nation .
Kathmandu  (  ; ) is the capital and largest urban agglomerate of Nepal .
The agglomerate consists of Kathmandu  महानगर  City at its core , and its sister cities Patan , Kirtipur , Thimi , and Bhaktapur .
It also  शामिल the recently पहचाना  urban areas of Shankhapur , Karyabinayak , and Champapur .
Banepa , Dhulikhel , and Panauti are satellite urban areas of  काठमांडू स्तिथ बस  outside the Kathmandu valley .
Kathmandu  is भी  known informally as `` KTM '' or the `` tri-city '' .
According to a census conducted in 2011 , Kathmandu metropolis alone has 975,453 inhabitants ; and the agglomerate has  a जनसांख्यिकी  of more than 2.5 million inhabitants .
The metropolitan city area is and has a population density  of 19,250  per km2 .
The city stands at an elevation of approximately in the  bowl-shaped काठमांडू घाटी  of central Nepal .
It is surrounded by four major  kyu : shivapuri  , Phulchoki , Nagarjun , and Chandragiri .
काठमांडू घाटी is भाग of तीन  districts ( Kathmandu , Lalitpur , and Bhaktapur ) , has the highest population density in the country , and is home to about a twelfth of Nepal 's population .
During Rana and Shah eras , the name `` Nepal '' referred only to the Kathmandu  घाटी ; it थी कया  people who lived outside the valley called it .
During this period ,  अंग्रेजों इतिहासकारों पुकारा the  valley itself `` Nepal Proper '' .
Today , Kathmandu is not only the capital of the Federal Democratic Republic of Nepal , but also the headquarters of the Central Development Region  of  Nepal .
The Central Region comprises three zones :  bagmati , narayani  , and Janakpur .
Kathmandu is located in the Bagmati Zone  .
Kathmandu is the gateway  to पर्यटन  in Nepal .
It is also the nerve center   of the country 's economy .
It has the most advanced infrastructure of any urban area in Nepal , and its  अर्थव्यवस्था is केन्द्रित on पर्यटन  , which accounted for 3.8 % of Nepal 's GDP in 1995–96 .
( Tourism in Kathmandu declined thereafter during a period of political  अशांति  , but since then has improved . )
The  नगर रै a समृद्ध इतिहास  , spanning nearly 2000 years , as inferred from inscriptions found in the valley .
Religious and cultural festivities form a  प्रमुख भाग of the जीवनदान of  people residing in Kathmandu .
सबसे of काठमांडू  's people follow Hinduism and many others follow Buddhism .
There are  लोगों of अन्य धार्मिक  beliefs as well , giving Kathmandu a cosmopolitan culture .
Nepali is the most commonly spoken  भाषा in the  city .
Nepal Bhasa is the indigenous language  बोला  by the Newar people .
Hindi is widely understood and English is understood by  काठमांडू 's शिक्षित निवासियों  .
The city 's literacy rate is 98 %  .
Kathmandu 's sister cities ( Lalitpur Patan ) and Bhaktapur are integral to Kathmandu 's cultural heritage , tourism industry , and economy ; therefore UNESCO 's World Heritage Site lists all three cities ' monuments and attractions together under one heading , `` Kathmandu Valley-  युनेस्को संसार विरासत साईट  `` .
Field hockey , usually referred to simply as hockey , is a team sport of the hockey family which is played between two teams of eleven players with  हॉकी sticks और  a hard , solid plastic ball .
At the turn of the 21st century , the game is played globally , with particular popularity  throughout यूरोपीय , एशिया  , Oceania , and South America – in addition to being the national sport of Pakistan and India .
The term `` field hockey '' is used primarily in Canada , the United States , and other regions of the  संसार जहाँ the खेल of बर्फ हॉकी  is more popular .
During play , goal keepers are the only players who are allowed to touch the ball with any  part  of their body ( with the exception of a player 's hand considered 'part of the stick ' ) , with this only applying within the shooting circle ( also known as the D , or shooting arc , or just the circle ) , while field players play the ball with the flat side of their stick .
The team that scores the most goals by the end of  the मैच विन्स  .
If the score is tied at  the समाप्त of the खेल , either a  draw is declared or the game goes into extra time and/or a penalty shootout , depending on the competition 's format .
The governing body of hockey is the International Hockey Federation ( FIH ) , with men and women being represented internationally  in प्रतियोगिताओं सहित the ओलम्पिक खेल  , Commonwealth games , Hockey World Cup , Champions Trophy and Junior Hockey World Cup , with many countries running extensive junior , senior , and masters ' club competitions .
The FIH  is भी  responsible for organising the Hockey Rules Board and developing the rules for the sport .
A popular variant of field hockey is indoor hockey ,  जिससे differs in  a number of respects while embodying the primary principles of hockey .
Indoor  हॉकी is a 6-a-side  variant , with a field which is reduced to approximately 40m × 20m .
With many of the rules remaining the same , including obstruction and feet , there are several key variations - Players may not raise the ball unless shooting on goal , players may not hit the ball ( instead  utilising pushes to ट्रांसफ़र the बॉल ) , और  the sidelines are replaced with solid barriers which the ball will rebound off .
Ethan `` Cane '' Ashby ( né Atkinson ) is a fictional character from  the अमरीकी सीबीएस साबुन  opera The Young and the Restless .
He is portrayed by Australian  कर्ता डेनियल गोडार्ड  , who originally auditioned for Brad Snyder on As the World Turns but was recommended for a role on The Young and the Restless instead .
The role was to be portrayed as an American , but  गोडार्ड 's  Australian descent influenced the character 's background .
Former head writer Lynn Marie  लैथम introduced उसे दौरान the  episode airing on January 12 , 2007 as an Australian bartender in search of his family , a debut that received a mixed response .
Latham created Cane as the son of Phillip Chancellor II ( Donnelly Rhodes ) and Jill Foster Abbott ( Jess Walton ) but the character 's background was rewritten by  मरिया एरिना घंटी in  2009 , reestablishing him as the son of Colin and Genevieve Atkinson ( Tristan Rogers and Genie Francis ) .
Though characterized as `` mysterious '' , Cane is `` loyal and dedicated '' , while Goddard described the character  as a `` ठेठ ऑस्ट्रेलियाई , working-class दयालु  of guy '' .
He was the first member of the  एटकिन्सन परिवार to  appear on the series , followed by his parents and identical twin brother .
Soon after his debut , he became a leading character , a  निर्णय praised by दर्शक  and critics .
The character has been involved with Amber Moore ( Adrienne Frantz ) , Chloe  मिशेल  ( Elizabeth Hendrickson ) and most notably Lily Winters ( Christel Khalil ) , a romance that garnered significant fan attention .
In 2009 , Cane and Lily were married ; Global BC would later call  लिली the प्रेम  of Cane 's life .
The pair  था दो children  , Charlie and Mattie Ashby .
In 2011 , the actor was  fired , और cane  was shot to death onscreen .
However , Goddard was rehired soon after viewers campaigned for his return ,  revealing कि cane 's  identical twin brother was in fact the man who died .
This sacrificed his marriage to  लिली , लकिन  the couple were remarried on Valentine 's Day in 2012 .
Goddard has been widely acclaimed for his portrayal ; Canyon News said that he portrays the character honestly , and is `` always dependable , on fire and exciting  ''  .
John Christopher `` Johnny '' Depp II ( born June 9 , 1963 ) is an American actor ,  फिल्मी निर्माता , और  musician .
He  has  won the Golden Globe Award and Screen Actors Guild award for Best Actor .
डेप रोज़  to prominence on the 1980s television series 21 Jump Street , becoming a teen idol .
Dissatisfied with that status , Depp turned to film for more challenging roles ; he played the title character of the acclaimed Edward Scissorhands ( 1990 ) and later found box office success in films such as Sleepy Hollow ( 1999 ) ,  Charlie  and the Chocolate Factory ( 2005 ) , Alice in Wonderland ( 2010 ) , Rango ( 2011 ) and the Pirates of the Caribbean film series ( 2003–present ) .
He has collaborated with  निदेशक और dost टिम  Burton in eight films ; the most recent being Dark Shadows ( 2012 ) .
Depp has gained acclaim for his portrayals of such people as Ed Wood in Ed Wood , Joseph D. Pistone in  donnie brasco  , Hunter S. Thompson in Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas , George Jung in Blow , and the bank robber John Dillinger in Michael Mann 's Public Enemies .
Films featuring Depp have  grossed over $ 3.1  billion at the United States box office and over $ 7.6 billion worldwide .
He has been nominated for top awards many times , winning the Best Actor Awards from the Golden –_Motion_Picture_Musical_or_Comedy Globes  –_motion_picture_musical_or_comedy लिये स्वीनी टॉड :  The Demon Barber of Fleet Street and from the Screen Actors Guild for Pirates of the Caribbean : The Curse of the Black Pearl .
He also has garnered a sex symbol status in American cinema , being twice named as the `` Sexiest Man Alive `` by  लोगों पत्रिका in 2003 और  2009 .
He has been listed in the 2012 Guinness Book of World Records as the  उच्चतम सशुल्क कर्ता  , with $ 75 million .
The World Wide Web ( abbreviated as WWW or W3 , commonly  ज्ञात as the वेब ) ,  is a system of interlinked hypertext documents accessed via the Internet .
With a web browser , one can view web pages that may contain text , images , videos , and other multimedia , and navigate  between उन्हें via  hyperlinks .
Using concepts from his earlier hypertext systems like ENQUIRE , British engineer , computer scientist and at that  time employee of the CERN ,  Sir Tim Berners-Lee , now Director of the World Wide Web Consortium ( W3C ) , wrote a proposal in March 1989 for what would eventually become the World Wide Web .
At CERN , a European research organisation near Geneva straddling the border between France and Switzerland , Berners-Lee and Belgian computer scientist Robert Cailliau proposed in 1990 to use hypertext `` to link and access information of  विभिन्न kinds as a वेब of नोड in जिससे the  user can browse at will '' , and they publicly introduced the project in December of the same year .
Mark Travis  जॉन  Sanchez ( born November 11 , 1986 ) is an American football quarterback for the New York Jets of the National Football League ( NFL ) .
He was drafted in the first round of the 2009 NFL Draft as the fifth overall selection by the Jets and the second quarterback  लिया overall  .
He played college football at  the विश्वविद्यालयों of दक्षिणी  California ( USC ) .
Sanchez grew up in a  well-disciplined और  athletic family .
In the eighth grade , he began to play  फ़ुटबॉल और  learn the intricacies of the quarterback position , training with his father , Nick .
A well-regarded prospect , Sanchez committed to Southern California following his successful high school career in which he led his team to  a  championship title during his final season .
At USC , Sanchez was relegated as the backup quarterback during his first three years though he rose to  prominence due to उसके ब्रैड दिखावे  on the field in 2007 due to injuries suffered by starting quarterback John David Booty .
Sanchez also became popular within the community due to   his Mexican-American heritage .
Named the starter in 2008 ,  सांचेज़ led यूएससी to a  12–1 record and won the Rose Bowl against Penn State for which Sanchez was awarded the Most Valuable Player award for his performance on offense .
Although many considered him too inexperienced , Sanchez announced his intention to  डालें the 2009 एनएफएल  Draft .
He was selected by the Jets after they traded up with the Cleveland  भूरा , और थी नामित the starting क्वार्टरबैक  prior to the start of the season .
Despite a subpar performance , Sanchez led the Jets to the  afc चैंपियनशिप  Game , a losing effort to the Indianapolis Colts , becoming the fourth rookie quarterback in NFL history to win his first playoff game and the second to win two playoff games .
In his second season , Sanchez continued to develop and led the Jets to the playoffs and the team 's second consecutive AFC Championship Game where they narrowly  खोया to the पिट्सबर्ग स्टीलर्स  , 24–19 .
With the win over the New England Patriots the week prior , Sanchez tied four other  quarterbacks लिये the दूसरी सबसे post-season सड़क victories  by a quarterback in NFL history .
In leading the Jets to  दो लगातार सम्मेलन  championships , Sanchez joined quarterback Ben Roethlisberger as the only two quarterbacks in NFL history to reach the conference championship in their first two seasons in the league .
The next two   seasons would be a regression for both the team and Sanchez as they failed to reach the playoffs .
Fans and  मीडिया आलोचकों  called for a struggling Sanchez to be benched .
He eventually was replaced towards the end of the 2012  ऋतु  with Greg McElroy .
Paul Avery ( April 2 , 1934December 10 , 2000 ) was an American police reporter , best known for his stories on the infamous serial killer known as the Zodiac , and   later for his work on the Patricia Hearst kidnapping .
A small submersible AC sump pump with a garden hose   connector
A sump pump is a pump used to remove water  कि रै संचित  in a water collecting sump basin , commonly found in the basement of homes .
The water may enter via the perimeter drains of a basement waterproofing system , funneling  into the जलाशय or क्युकी of बरसात or प्राकृतिक मैदान  water , if the basement is below the water table level .
Sump pumps are used where basement flooding happens regularly and to  उपाय dampness जहाँ the जल तालिका  is above the foundation of a home .
Sump pumps send water away from a house to any place where it is no longer problematic , such as a municipal  तूफ़ान नाली or a शुष्क खूब  .
Pumps may discharge to the sanitary sewer in older  संस्थापना  .
Once considered acceptable , this practice  may अभी violate the plumbing कोड or  municipal bylaws , because it can overwhelm the municipal sewage treatment system .
Municipalities urge homeowners to disconnect and  reroute sump पंप  discharge away from sanitary sewers .
Fines may  be  imposed for noncompliance .
Many homeowners have inherited their sump pump configurations and do not realize that the  पंप discharges to  the sewer .
If the  निर्वहन  is fed to a laundry sink in the basement , it 's likely going to the sewer .
प्रायः hardwired  into a home 's electrical system , sump pumps may have a battery backup .
The home 's pressurized water supply powers some  पंपों , eliminating the need लिये  electricity at the expense of using potable water , potentially making them more expensive to operate than electrical pumps and creating an additional water disposal problem .
Since a  sump जलाशय may अतिप्रवाह if नहीं  constantly pumped , a backup system is important for cases when the main power is out for prolonged periods of time , as during a severe storm .
There are generally two types  of  sump pumps — pedestal and submersible .
The pedestal pump 's motor is  आरोहित  above the sump , where it is more easily serviced , but is also more conspicuous .
The pump impeller  is  driven by a long , vertical extension shaft and the impeller is in a scroll housing in the base of the pump .
The submersible pump is entirely mounted inside the sump , and is specially sealed to  prevent  electrical short circuits .
Sump pump systems are also utilized in industrial and commercial applications  to  control water table -related problems in surface soil .
An artesian  aquifer  or periodic high water table situation can cause the ground to become unstable due to water saturation .
As long as the  पंप  functions , the surface soil will remain stable .
These sumps are typically ten feet in depth or more ; lined with corrugated  मेटल पाइप कि contains  perforations or drain holes throughout .
They may include electronic control systems with visual  और audible  alarms and are usually covered to prevent debris and animals from falling in .
Bleeding Kansas , Bloody Kansas or the Border War , was a series of violent political confrontations involving anti-slavery Free-Staters and pro-slavery `` Border Ruffian `` elements , that took place in the Kansas Territory and the neighboring towns  of  Missouri between 1854 and 1861 .
at the दिल of the  conflict was the question of whether Kansas would enter the Union as a free state or slave state .
As such , Bleeding Kansas was a proxy war between Northerners and Southerners  over the समस्या  of slavery in the United States .
The  term ``  Bleeding Kansas '' was coined by Horace Greeley of the New York Tribune ; the events it encompasses directly presaged the American Civil War .
Congress had long struggled to balance the interests of pro-slavery forces and anti-slavery  शक्तियां  .
The events later known as Bleeding Kansas were set into motion by the Kansas–Nebraska Act of 1854  , which nullified the  Missouri Compromise and instead implemented the concept of popular sovereignty .
An ostensibly democratic idea , popular sovereignty stated that the inhabitants of each territory or state should decide whether it  होता be a फ़्री  or slave state ; however , this resulted in immigration en masse to Kansas by activists from both sides .
At one point , Kansas had two separate governments ,  प्रत्येक साथ इसके अपना संविधान , हालांकि  only one was federally recognized .
On January 29 , 1861 , Kansas was admitted to the Union as a free state , less than  तीन महीने पहले the बैटल of फोर्ट sumter जिससे began  the Civil War .
बेंजीन is  an organic chemical compound with the molecular formula C6 H|Hydrogen|H6 .
Its molecule  is रचित of 6  carbon atoms joined in a ring , with 1 hydrogen atom attached to each carbon atom .
Because its molecules contain only carbon and hydrogen atoms ,  बेंजीन is classed  as a hydrocarbon .
Benzene is a natural constituent of crude oil , and is one  of  the most basic petrochemicals .
Benzene is an aromatic hydrocarbon and  the दूसरी [ n ] - annulene ( [ 6  ] -annulene ) , a cyclic hydrocarbon with a continuous pi bond .
It is sometimes abbreviated Ph –H . Benzene is a colorless  और अत्यधिक ज्वलनशील  liquid with a sweet smell .
It is mainly used as a precursor to heavy chemicals , such  as ethylbenzene और cumene  , which are produced on a billion kilogram scale .
Because it has  a ऊँची ऑक्टेन क्रमांक  , it is an important component of gasoline , composing a few percent of its mass .
Most non-industrial applications have been limited by  बेंजीन  's carcinogenicity .
Giovanni  virginio स्क्यापारेल्ली  ( ; 14 March 1835 – 4 July 1910 ) was an Italian astronomer and science historian .
Wii homebrew refers to the reuse of Nintendo 's  वी खेल कंसोल to चलाएं तन्त्र  that has not been authorized by Nintendo .
It achieves this by defeating the Wii 's copy  सुरक्षा और कोड हस्ताक्षर  measures .
In more general terms , Wii Homebrew refers to the use of the Wii 's hardware , accessories and software for purposes  बाहर those intended by the निर्माता .
Original efforts focused on using the Wii Remote as a pointing  यंत्र on अन्य ऑपरेटिंग प्रणालियों , or कार्यशील web-based  games in the built-in web browser .
Subsequent developments in games exploits , such as the `` Twilight hack `` , `` Bannerbomb '' and its later incarnation `` LetterBomb '' , `` Smash Stack '' , `` Indiana Pwns '' ,  `` yu-gi-owned '' , `` bathaxx '' , और `` वापसी of the jodi  '' , made installing the `` Homebrew Channel `` possible .
Hadley (  सही  ) discussing the 2006 Israel-Lebanon crisis with Bush and Rice .
Stephen John Hadley ( born February  13 , 1947 ) थी the 21st u.S.  Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs ( commonly referred as National Security Advisor ) , serving under President George W. Bush .
Take identical growing plants and  दे उर्वरक  to half of them .
If there are differences between   the fertilized plant group and the unfertilized `` control '' group , these differences may be due to the fertilizer .
A scientific control is  an प्रयोग or  observation designed to minimize the effects of variables other than the single independent variable .
This increases the reliability of the results , often through a comparison between control measurements and the  अन्य माप  .
Scientific controls  हैं  a part of the scientific method .
For example , during  ड्रग परीक्षण ,  scientists will try to control two groups to keep them as identical as possible , then allow one group to try the drug .
Another example might be testing  संयंत्र  fertilizer by giving it to only half the plants in a garden : the plants that receive no fertilizer are the control group , because they establish the baseline level of growth that the fertilizer-treated plants will be compared against .
Without a  कंट्रोल समूह , the प्रयोग  can not determine whether the fertilizer-treated plants grow more than they would have if untreated .
ideally , सब परिवर्तनीय in an  experiment will be controlled ( accounted for by the control measurements ) and none will be uncontrolled .
In such an experiment , if all the controls work as  अपेक्षित , it is संभावित to conclude कि the  experiment is working as intended and that the results of the experiment are due to the effect of the variable being tested .
That is , scientific controls  allow  an investigator to make a claim like `` Two situations were identical until factor X occurred .
Since  फ़ैक्टर x is the तभी अंतर between  the two situations , the new outcome was caused by factor X . ''
< <  रासायनिक तत्व  data references
John Adams ( October 30 , 1735 ( O.S . October 19 , 1735 ) – July 4 , 1826 ) was the second president of the United States ( 1797–1801 ) , having earlier served as the  first vice president of the  United States .
An American Founding  पिता , he थी a statesman  , diplomat , and a leading advocate of American independence from Great Britain .
Well educated , he was an Enlightenment political theorist who promoted  republicanism और लिखा prolifically परिचय उसके प्रायः seminal विचार , दोनो in प्रकाशित works और in  letters to his wife and key adviser Abigail as well as to other Founding Fathers .
Adams came to prominence in the early stages of the American  क्रान्ति .
A lawyer and public figure in  बोस्टन , as a प्रतिनिधि इससे मैसाचुसेट्स  to the Continental Congress , he played a leading role in persuading Congress to declare independence .
He assisted Thomas  जेफरसन in drafting the घोषणा of  Independence in 1776 , and was its primary advocate in the Congress .
Later , as a  राजनयिक  in Europe , he helped negotiate the eventual peace treaty with Great Britain , and was responsible for obtaining vital governmental loans from Amsterdam bankers .
A political theorist and historian , Adams largely wrote the Massachusetts Constitution in 1780 , which together with his earlier Thoughts on  सरकारी , बहकावे  American political thought .
One of  उसके महानतम भूमिकाएँ थी as a न्यायधीश of अक्षर  : in 1775 , he nominated George Washington to be commander-in-chief , and 25 years later nominated John Marshall to be Chief Justice of the United States .
Adams ' revolutionary credentials secured him two terms as George  वॉशिंगटन 's वाइस  president and his own election in 1796 as the second president .
During his one term , he encountered   ferocious attacks by the Jeffersonian Republicans , as well as the dominant faction in his own Federalist Party led by his bitter enemy Alexander Hamilton .
Adams signed the controversial Alien and Sedition Acts , and built up the army and navy especially  in the फेस of an undeclared नवल युद्ध  ( called the `` Quasi-War `` ) with France , 1798–1800 .
The major accomplishment of his  प्रेसिडेंसी  was his peaceful resolution of the conflict in the face of Hamilton 's opposition .
In 1800 , Adams was defeated for re-election by Thomas  जेफरसन  and retired to Massachusetts .
He later  resumed उसके  friendship with Jefferson .
He  और उसके बीवी , अबीगैल  Adams , founded an accomplished family line of politicians , diplomats , and historians now referred to as the Adams political family .
Adams was the  पिता of जॉन क्विंसी  Adams , the sixth President of the United States .
उसके उपलब्धियाँ  have received greater recognition in modern times , though his contributions were not initially as celebrated as those of other Founders .
Adams was the first U.S. president to reside in the building that eventually  became ज्ञात as the श्वेत  House .
A  वाट भाप  engine .
The steam engine , fuelled  primarily by कोयले  , propelled the Industrial Revolution in Great Britain and the world .
The Industrial Revolution was the transition to new  निर्माण प्रक्रियाओं कि occurred  in the period from about 1760 to some time between 1820 and 1840 .
This transition included going from hand production methods to machines , new chemical manufacturing and iron  उत्पादन प्रक्रियाओं , improved दक्षता of जल शक्ति , the increasing उपयोग of भाप शक्ति  and development of machine tools .
The transition also included the change from wood and other  bio-fuels to कोयले  .
The Industrial revolution began in Britain and within a few decades   spread to Western Europe and the United States .
The Industrial Revolution marks a major turning point in history ; almost every  पहलू  of daily life was influenced in some way .
Most notably , average income and population began  to प्रदर्शनी unprecedented  sustained growth .
In the words of Nobel Prize winner Robert  E.  Lucas , Jr. , `` For the first time in history , the living standards of the masses of ordinary people have begun to undergo sustained growth ... Nothing remotely like this economic behavior is mentioned by the classical economists , even as a theoretical possibility . ''
विलियम  Bell Scott Iron and Coal , 1855-60
The period of time covered by the Industrial Revolution  varies साथ अलग  historians .
Eric Hobsbawm held that it 'broke  आउट ' in ब्रिटेन in the 1780s और थी  not fully felt until the 1830s or 1840s , while T. S. Ashton held that it occurred roughly between 1760 and 1830 .
Some 20th-century historians such as John Clapham and Nicholas Crafts have argued that the process of economic and social change took place  धीरे और  the term revolution is a misnomer .
This is  स्टिल a विषय  of debate among historians .
GDP per capita was broadly stable before the Industrial Revolution and the emergence of the  आधुनिक पूंजीवादी  economy .
The Industrial Revolution began an era of per-capita economic growth in  पूंजीवादी economies  .
Economic historians are  in अनुबंध  that the onset of the Industrial Revolution is the most important event in the history of humanity since the domestication of animals and plants .
The First Industrial Revolution evolved into the Second Industrial Revolution in the transition years between 1840 and 1870 , when technological and economic progress gained momentum with the increasing adoption of  steam-powered नौकाएँ , जहाजों और रेल , the  large scale manufacture of machine tools and the increasing use of steam powered factories .
Juliet AnnMarie Huddy ( born  सितंबर  27 , 1969 ) , is an American television news reporter , currently appearing on Fox News Channel .
This list ranks U.S. cities by land area (  नहीं सहित  bodies of water ) .
Total areas ( including water ) are also given  , लकिन नोट  that , when ranked by total area , a number of coastal cities appear disproportionately `` larger '' .
San Francisco is an extreme example ; water makes up nearly 80 % of its total area  of 232 वर्गाकार  miles ( 601 km2 ) .
Note also  कि  in many cases a city may be geographically large primarily because its municipal government has merged with the government of the surrounding county .
In some cases the county no longer exists , while in others the arrangement has formed a  संचित city–county ( or city- बरो in अलास्का , or  city- parish in Louisiana ) .
These are  दिखाया in बिंदास  in the list below ( but not all examples may be indicated ) .
** These are independent cities , meaning they  हैं नहीं a भाग of कोई  county .
The large intestine ( or bowel , colon ) is the last part of the digestive   system in vertebrate animals .
Its function is to absorb water  इससे the बाकी  indigestible food matter , and then to pass useless waste material from the body .
This article is primarily about the human gut , though the information about its  प्रक्रियाओं  are directly applicable to most mammals .
The large  आंत consists of the cecum  , rectum and anal canal .
it starts in the सही iliac प्रदेश of the pelvis , बस at or नीचे the सही कमर , जहाँ it is joined to the नीचे समाप्त of the छोटी आंत .
From here it continues up the abdomen , then across the width of  the abdominal गुहा , और तब it turns bas  , continuing to its endpoint at the anus .
The large intestine  is परिचय long , जिससे is परिचय  one-fifth of the whole length of the intestinal canal .
In Terminologia Anatomica the large intestine includes the cecum  ,  colon , rectum , and anal canal .
However , some sources  exclude the गुदा  canal .
The Green Bay Packers are an American football  टोली आधारित in ग्रीन खाड़ी , विस्कॉन्सिन  .
They are members of the North Division of the National Football Conference ( NFC ) in the National Football  लीग ( एनएफएल ) .
Green Bay is the third-oldest  मताधिकार in the एनएफएल , having महरूम व्यवस्थित  and playing in 1919 .
The Packers are the only non-profit , community-owned major league professional sports team in the  संयुक्त राज्य  .
The Packers are the last vestige of `` small town  टीमों '' कि यहूद एकबार आम  in the NFL during the 1920s and 1930s .
Founded in 1919 by Earl `` Curly '' Lambeau ( hence the name Lambeau Field on which the team plays ) and George Whitney Calhoun , the Green Bay Packers  can ट्रेस उनके lineage to अन्य semi-professional टीमों in ग्रीन खाड़ी डेटिंग  back to 1896 .
In 1919 and 1920 the Packers competed as a semi-professional football team against clubs from around Wisconsin and  the मिडवेस्ट .
They joined the American Professional Football Association ( APFA ) in 1921 , the  forerunner to कया is ज्ञात आज as the नेशनल  Football League ( NFL ) .
Although Green Bay is the last NFL `` small town '' team , its local fan base and media extends into nearby Milwaukee ; the team also played selected home games  वहीँ between 1933 और 1994  .
The Green Bay Packers have won 13 league championships ( more than any other team in the NFL )   , including nine NFL championships prior to the Super Bowl era and four Super Bowl victories —in 1967 ( Super Bowl I ) , 1968 ( Super Bowl II ) , 1997 ( Super Bowl XXXI ) and 2011 ( Super Bowl XLV ) .
The Packers have long-standing  ,  bitter rivalries with their NFC North ( formerly the NFC Central ) opponents , the Chicago Bears , Minnesota Vikings and the Detroit Lions .
The  bears-packers फंसने  is one of the oldest rivalries in NFL history , dating back to 1921 .
The San Fernando Valley ( locally known as `` The Valley '' ) is an urbanized valley located in the Los Angeles metropolitan area of southern California , United States , defined by the mountains  of the अनुप्रस्थ  Ranges circling it .
Home to 1.76 million people ,  it झूठ उत्तर  of the larger and more populous Los Angeles Basin .
Nearly two thirds of  the घाटी 's जमीन  area is part of the City of Los Angeles .
The other incorporated cities in the valley are Glendale , Burbank , San Fernando , Hidden Hills and  calabasas  .
San  फर्नांडो  Valley , Los Angeles
The exterior  of  the current World of Coca-Cola at Pemberton Place .
The World of Coca-Cola , is a permanent  प्रदर्शनी featuring the इतिहास  of The Coca-Cola Company .
Its  well-known विज्ञापन  as well as a host of entertainment areas and attractions , and is located in Atlanta , Georgia ( where the company 's headquarters are located ) at Pemberton Place ( named in honor of John Pemberton , the inventor of Coca-Cola ) .
as part of  जॉर्जिया  's museums .
the complex located across  Baker  Street from Centennial Olympic Park that is home to the Georgia Aquarium and future Center for Civil & Human Rights .
It opened to the public on May 24  , 2007 , relocating  from and replacing the original exhibit .
Pretties is a 2005 science  fiction अनोखा और the दूसरी  book of the Uglies Trilogy written by Scott Westerfeld .
It is set in a future dystopian world in which everyone is turned `` Pretty '' by  चरम कॉस्मेटिक सर्जरी upon reaching  age 16 .
It tells the story of teenager Tally Youngblood who rebels  विरूद्ध समाज 's  enforced conformity .
Susan Leigh Vaughan Smith ( born September 26 , 1971 ) is an American woman sentenced to life in prison for  murdering  her children .
born in संघ , दक्षिण कैरोलिना  , and a former student of the University of South Carolina Union , she was convicted on July 22 , 1995 for murdering her two sons , 3-year-old Michael Daniel Smith , born October 10 , 1991 , and 14-month-old Alexander Tyler Smith , born August 5 , 1993 .
The case gained worldwide attention shortly after it developed , due to her claiming that a black man stole  उसके car और kidnapped उसके  sons .
She later claimed that she suffered from  दिमागी स्वास्थ्य मुद्दे  that impaired her judgment .
according to the दक्षिण कैरोलिना विभाग  of Corrections , Smith will be eligible for parole on November 4 , 2024 , after serving a minimum of thirty years .
She is incarcerated at South Carolina 's Leath Correctional  संस्था , निकट  Greenwood .
Mount McKinley ( also known as Denali taken from the Inuit Koyukon  athabaskan भाषा अर्थ `` the ग्रेट एक '' ) is the उच्चतम  mountain peak in the United States and in North America with a summit elevation of above sea level .
At some , the base to  शिखर वृद्धि is माना  the largest of any mountain situated entirely above sea level .
Measured by topographic prominence  , it is the  third most prominent peak after Mount Everest and Aconcagua .
Located in the Alaska Range in the interior of US state of Alaska , it is  the centerpiece of  Denali National Park and Preserve .
The first European to  दस्तावेज़ sighting the पहाड़  was George Vancouver in 1794 .
In 1903 , James  wickersham अंकित the पहला attempt at चढ़ाई  McKinley which was unsuccessful .
In 1906 , Frederick Cook claimed  the पहला ascent जिससे थी बाद  proven to be false .
The first verifiable ascent to McKinley 's summit was achieved on June 7 , 1913 by climbers Hudson Stuck , Harry Karstens , Walter Harper , and  रॉबर्ट  Tatum .
In 1951 , Bradford Washburn pioneered the West Buttress route considered to be the safest and easiest route and therefore the most popular  फिलहाल  in use .
The Honda  s600  is an automobile manufactured by Honda .
It  थी शुभारम्भ  in March 1964 .
Available as a roadster – bearing strong  प्रतिरूप to the होंडा s500 – और as a fastback  coupé – introduced in March 1965 – the S600 was the first Honda available in two trim levels .
During its production run up to 1966 , the model styling would remain pretty much the same , with the most notable changes coming to the front grille ,  बम्पर  , and headlights .
Powered by a DOHC , water-cooled , four-cylinder inline engine with four carburetors , the engine capacity was increased to 606 cc from  the s500 's 531  cc .
The  इंजन उत्पादित  at 8,500 rpm and had a top speed of .
With the convertible weighing in at  mere , the अतिरिक्त चादर  metal of the coupe only added to the overall weight .
Suspension was  स्वतंत्र साथ sealed  roller chain drive to each rear wheel .
The S600 was  the पहला  mass marketed Honda car .
First offered only in  right-hand  drive , it soon became available in left-hand drive to appeal to export markets .
There  यहूद a  few pre-production S500s manufactured in left hand drive , two or three even being shown in some early sales brochures .
Both the S600 roadster and coupé were available in standard trim and a special , upgraded package called the SM600 which included , among other items , special paint colors , exclusive badging , a  मानक रेडियो  and speaker , a special antenna in the passenger side sun visor , standard reversing lights , a standard cigarette lighter , a standard heater , better cushioned seats , and a detachable seat track for quick removal of the passenger seat .
Honda built 3,912   roadsters in 1964 , with production climbing to 7,261 convertibles and 1,519 coupes in 1965 .
Production dropped off in 1966 ( as they were shifting to the S800 ) with only 111 roadsters and 281 coupes ,  giving  tallies of 11,284 convertibles and 1,800 coupes for the 3 year span .
Everybody Hates Chris is an American television period sitcom that depicts the teenage experiences of  हास्य क्रिस चट्टान ( जो is भी the narrator  ) while growing up in the Bedford-Stuyvesant neighborhood of Brooklyn , New York .
The show is set between 1983 and 1987 ; however , Rock himself was a teenager between 1978 and  1983  .
Rock grew up with a boy named Kenny Montero , whom he has often referred to as the  प्रेरणा लिये a लॉट of the एपीसोड  .
In many interviews , Rock has described Kenny as the reason he got  into  comedy in the first place .
The show 's title  parodies  the CBS sitcom Everybody Loves Raymond .
Rock stated : ``  everybody  Loves Raymond but Everybody Hates Chris ! `` .
The show 's  सीसे अभिनेताओं  are Tyler James Williams , Terry Crews , Tichina Arnold , Tequan Richmond , Imani Hakim , and Vincent Martella .
In Fall 2008 , the The CW moved Everybody Hates Chris and The Game to the Friday night death  स्लॉट  .
The fourth season of the series  premiered शुक्रवार ,  October 3 , 2008 , at 8:00PM Eastern/7:00PM Central .
On May 21 , 2009 , The  CW  announced that it had cancelled Everybody Hates Chris .
Prior to this  , executive producer Chris Rock  announced that the end of season 4 matched up with his own past—dropping out of high school to become a comedian—and that it was time to end the show .
Pleural effusion is excess fluid that accumulates between the two pleural  परतों , the fluid-filled  space that surrounds the lungs .
Excessive amounts of such fluid can  impair श्वास by limiting  the expansion of the lungs during ventilation .
Beowulf ( ; in Old English or ) is the conventional title of an Old English heroic epic poem consisting of  3182 alliterative long लाइनों , नियत in  Scandinavia , commonly cited as one of the most important works of Anglo-Saxon literature .
It survives in a single manuscript known as the  nowell codex  .
Its composition by  an बेनाम anglo-saxon  poet is dated between the 8th and the early 11th century .
In 1731 ,  the पाण्डुलिपि थी badly  damaged by a fire that swept through a building housing a collection of Medieval manuscripts assembled by Sir Robert Bruce Cotton .
The poem fell into obscurity for decades , and its existence did not become widely  ज्ञात again जबतक it थी मुद्रित in 1815 in an संस्करण  prepared by the Icelandic-Danish scholar Grímur Jónsson Thorkelin .
In the poem , Beowulf , a hero of the Geats in Scandinavia , comes to the help of Hroðgar , the king of the Danes , whose  मीड हॉल ( in heorot ) रै महरूम अंतर्गत आक्रमण  by a monster known as Grendel .
After Beowulf slays him ,  grendel 's माँ हमले  the hall and is then also defeated .
Victorious , Beowulf goes  घर to geatland  in Sweden and later becomes king of the Geats .
After a period of fifty years has  passed , बियोवुल्फ़  defeats a dragon , but is fatally wounded in the battle .
After his death , his  सेवकों  bury him in a tumulus , a burial mound , in Geatland .
shem हैम  and Japheth by James Tissot 1904 .
Shem ( ; Sēm ; Arabic : Sām ; Ge'ez : ሴም , Sēm  ; `` renown  ; prosperity ; name '' ) was one of the sons of Noah in the Hebrew Bible as well as in Islamic literature .
He is most popularly regarded as the   eldest son , though some traditions regard him as the second son .
Genesis 10:21 refers to relative ages of Shem and his brother Japheth  , but  with sufficient ambiguity to have yielded different translations .
The verse is translated in the KJV as `` Unto Shem also , the father of all the  children of  Eber , the brother of Japheth the elder , even to him were children born . `` .
However , the New American Standard Bible gives , `` Also to Shem , the  पिता  of all the children of Eber , and the older brother of Japheth , children were born . ''
Genesis 11:10 records that Shem was still 100 years old at the birth of  arphaxad , ( लकिन nearly 101 - देखिए कालक्रम नोट , ) दो  years after the flood , making him barely 99 at the time the flood began ; and that he lived for another 500 years after this , making his age at death 600 years .
the children of shem यहूद ईलम , asshur , arphaxad , lud , और aram , in जोड to बेटियां .
Abraham , the patriarch of the Hebrews and Arabs , was one of  the वंशजों of arphaxad  .
Islamic literature describes Shem as one of the believing sons   of Noah .
Some sources even identify Shem as a prophet in his  own  right and that he was the next prophet after his father .
In one Muslim legend , Shem was one  of the लोगों कि परमेश्वर बना यीशु उठाएगा  as a sign to the Children of Israel .
The 1st century historian Flavius Josephus , among many others , recounted the tradition that these five sons were the progenitors of the nations of Elam , Assyria ,  chaldea , लीडिया , और  Syria , respectively .
Semitic is still a commonly used term for the Semitic languages , as a subset of the  afro-asiatic  languages , denoting the common linguistic heritage of Arabic , Aramaic , Akkadian , Ethiopic , Hebrew and Phoenician languages .
According to some Jewish traditions ( e.g. , B. Talmud Nedarim 32b ;  उत्पत्ति rabbah 46:7 ; उत्पत्ति rabbah  56:10 ; Leviticus Rabbah 25:6 ; Numbers Rabbah 4:8 . ) , Shem is believed to have been Melchizedek , King of Salem whom Abraham is recorded to have met after the battle of the four kings .
In a few of the many extra-biblical sources that describe him , Shem is also credited with killing  nimrod  , son of Cush .
Shem is  उल्लेखित in उत्पत्ति 5:32 , 6:10  ; 7:13 ; 9:18,23,26-27 ; 10 ; 11:10 ; also in 1 Chronicles 1:4 .
Geographic identifications of Flavius Josephus , c. 100 AD ; Japheth 's sons shown  in रेड  , Ham 's sons in blue , Shem 's sons in green .
Go Daddy or Go Daddy Group Inc. is a privately held company that is primarily an internet domain registrar and web hosting  कम्पनी  .
Go Daddy  समूह inc. दायर लिये  an IPO in 2006 , but later canceled it , due to `` market uncertainties '' .
In addition to domain registration and hosting Go Daddy also  बिकता e-business  related software and services .
On June 24 , 2011 , The Wall Street Journal reported  कि private-equity firms केकेआर  and Silver Lake Partners , along with a third investor , were nearing a deal to buy the company for between $ 2–2.5 billion .
On July 1 , 2011 Go Daddy confirmed that KKR , Silver Lake Partners and Technology Crossover  ventures था बंद the सौदे  .
Although the purchase price was not officially announced it was reported to be $ 2.25 billion , for  65 % of  the company .
, Bob Parsons had ceded the CEO role of Go Daddy to Warren Adelman , who had been with the  कम्पनी लिये परिचय 10  years .
The Andorran coat of arms at the  andorran पार्लियामेंट  .
Andorra ( ; , ) , officially the Principality of Andorra ( ) , also called the Principality of the Valleys  of Andorra , ( ) , is  a landlocked microstate in Southwestern Europe , located in the eastern Pyrenees mountains and bordered by Spain and France .
It is the sixth smallest nation in Europe , having an area of and an  अनुमानित  population of 85,000 in 2012 .
Its capital , Andorra la Vella , is the highest capital  नगर in यूरोपीय  , at an elevation of above sea level .
The official language is Catalan , although Spanish , Portuguese , and  फ्रेंच हैं भी commonly  spoken .
Created under a charter in 988 , the  उपस्थित  Principality was formed in 1278 .
It is known as a principality as it is a monarchy headed by two co-princes – the  बिशप of urgell और the अध्यक्ष of  France .
Andorra is a prosperous country mainly because of its tourism industry , which services an   estimated 10.2 million visitors annually , and also because of its status as a tax haven .
It  is  not a member of the European Union , but the euro is the de facto currency .
The people of Andorra have the 4th highest human life  प्रत्याशा  in the world — 82 years at birth .
The George Washington  विश्वविद्यालयों ( gw  , GWU , or George Washington ) is a comprehensive private , coeducational research university located in Washington , D.C. .
It awards certificates , Bachelor degrees , Masters degrees , and   PhDs across several dozen disciplines .
The university was chartered by an Act of Congress on February 9 , 1821 as The Columbian  कॉलेज in  the District of Columbia .
Kimberly Noel `` Kim ''  कार्दशियन  ( born October 21 , 1980 ) is an American socialite , television personality and occasional actress .
In 2007 , she gained notoriety as the subject of a sex tape that subsequently resulted in a court  awarding  her $ 5 million ; later in that same year , she and her family rose to prominence with their E !
reality television series Keeping Up  साथ the kardashians , और इसके subsequent  spin-offs , including Kourtney and Kim Take New York and Kourtney and Kim Take Miami .
In 2010  , कार्दशियन  was the highest-earning reality star , with estimated earnings of $ 6 million .
With sisters Kourtney and Khloé , Kardashian  co-owns the फ़ैशन  boutique chain D-A-S-H .
She has been involved in the  उत्पादन of अनेक लाइनों of  clothing and fragrances .
In August 2011 , Kardashian married basketball player Kris Humphries in a widely publicized  रस्म  .
That October ,  कार्दशियन  filed for divorce following 72 days of marriage .
The move garnered significant backlash from the media , who labeled it  a `` publicity स्टंट '' .
After 536 days   , Kardashian and Humphries reached an undisclosed settlement at the Los Angeles Superior Court , finalizing the divorce in April 2013 .
Aerial view of Oahu with freeways and highways , 3D  computer-generated  image
fly-around दौरे  of the island
Oahu ( ) or  oahu  , known as `` The Gathering Place '' , is the third largest of the Hawaiian Islands and the most populous of the islands in the U.S. state of Hawaii .
The  राज्य पूंजी  , Honolulu , is on Oahu 's southeast coast .
Including small close-in offshore islands such as Ford Island and the islands in Kaneohe Bay and off the  eastern (  windward ) coast , it has a total land area of , making it the 20th largest island in the United States .
In the greatest  आयाम , इस volcanic  island is long and across .
The  लंबाई  of the shoreline is .
The island is the result of two separate shield volcanoes : Waianae and  koolau , साथ  a broad `` valley '' or saddle ( the central Oahu Plain ) between them .
The highest point is Mt . Ka'ala in the  waianae दायरा  , rising to above sea level .
The base currency of the  संयुक्त राज्य is the  U.S. dollar , and is printed on bills in denominations of $ 1 , $ 2 , $ 5 , $ 10 , $ 20 , $ 50 , and $ 100 .
At one time , however , U.S. currency included five  larger denominations  .
Notes in the  denominations of $ 500 , $ 1,000 , $ 5,000  , and $ 10,000 were printed for general use , and a $ 100,000 note was printed for certain internal transactions .
अंग्रेजों  Honduras was a British colony in Central America .
In 1981 , the colony gained  पूरा  independence , and is now the independent nation of Belize .
First colonised by Spaniards in the 17th century , the territory on  the ईस्ट coast of सेंट्रल अमेरिका , दक्षिण of मैक्सिको , became  a British crown colony in 1862 .
In 1964 , it  became  a self-governing colony .
Belize became fully independent from the United Kingdom in  1981 .
Belize was the last continental  कब्ज़ा  of the United Kingdom in the Americas .
Spelt , also known as dinkel wheat , or hulled wheat , is an  प्राचीन प्रजाति  of wheat from the fifth millennium BC .
Spelt  थी an महत्वपूर्ण  staple in parts of Europe from the Bronze Age to medieval times ; it now survives as a relict crop in Central Europe and northern Spain and has found a new market as a health food .
Spelt is sometimes  माना a subspecies of  the closely related species common wheat ( T. aestivum ) , in which case its botanical name is considered to be Triticum aestivum subsp . spelta .
It is a hexaploid wheat , which means it has six sets of  गुणसूत्रों  .
Sherlock Holmes ( or ) is a  fictional जासूस निर्मित by लेखक  and physician Sir Arthur Conan Doyle .
A London-based `` consulting detective '' whose abilities border on the fantastic , Holmes is famous for his astute logical reasoning , his ability to adopt almost any disguise , and his use of forensic  विज्ञान कौशल to solve  difficult cases .
holmes , जो पहला  appeared in publication in 1887 , was featured in four novels and 56 short stories .
The first novel , A Study in Scarlet , appeared in  beeton  's Christmas Annual in 1887 and the second , The Sign of the Four , in Lippincott 's Monthly Magazine in 1890 .
The character grew tremendously in popularity with the first series of short stories in The Strand Magazine , beginning with A Scandal in Bohemia in 1891 ; further series of short stories and two novels published in serial form appeared between then   and 1927 .
The stories cover  a काल  from around 1880 up to 1914 .
All but four stories are narrated by Holmes 's friend and biographer , Dr. John H. Watson ; two are narrated by Holmes himself ( `` The  blanched सिपाही `` और `` the शेर 's माने ``  ) and two others are written in the third person ( `` The Mazarin Stone `` and `` His Last Bow `` ) .
In two stories ( `` The Musgrave Ritual `` and `` The Gloria Scott `` ) , Holmes tells Watson the main story from his memories , while  वाटसन becomes the narrator  of the frame story .
The first and fourth novels  , a पढ़ाई in स्कारलेट और the घाटी of भय , प्रत्येक  include a long interval of omniscient narration recounting events unknown to either Holmes or Watson .
The United  राज्य  House of Representatives is one of the two houses of the United States Congress ( a bicameral legislature ) .
It is frequently referred  to as the  House .
The other house  is  the Senate .
The composition and  शक्तियां  of the House are established in Article One of the United States Constitution .
The major power of the House is to pass federal legislation that affects the entire country although its bills must also be passed by the Senate and further agreed  to by the u.S. अध्यक्ष पहले  becoming law ( unless both the House and Senate re-pass the legislation with a two-thirds majority in each chamber ) .
The House has several exclusive powers : the power to initiate revenue bills , to impeach officials , and to elect the U.S. President in case there is no majority  in the चुनावी  College .
Each U.S. state is represented in the  हाउस in proportion  to its population but is entitled to at least one representative .
The most populous state , California , currently has 53  प्रतिनिधि  .
The total number of voting  प्रतिनिधि  is fixed by law at 435 .
प्रत्येक प्रतिनिधि serves लिये a two-year पद  .
The Speaker of the United States House of Representatives , who presides over the chamber , is elected by the members of the House , and is therefore traditionally the  नेता of the हाउस लोकतांत्रिक  Caucus or the House Republican Conference , whichever party has more voting members .
The  हाउस meets in the दक्षिण  wing of the United States Capitol .
Jell-O is a brand name belonging to  u.s.-based kraft भोजन लिये a क्रमांक  of gelatin desserts , including fruit gels , puddings and no-bake cream pies .
The brand  's लोकप्रियता रै  led to it being used as a generic term for gelatin dessert across the U.S. and Canada .
Kennywood is an amusement park located  in वेस्ट mifflin  , Pennsylvania , a suburb of Pittsburgh .
The park first opened in 1898 as a ``  ट्राली  park '' attraction at the end of the Mellon family 's Monongahela Street Railway .
The park was purchased in 1906 by F. W. Henninger and Andrew McSwigan and thus began  the kennywood entertainment कम्पनी  that has remained a closely held family business for over 100 years .
This traditional amusement park still has structures and rides dating back to its  खोलने और the  early 1900s .
Along with Rye  playland पार्क , it is एक of  only two amusement parks listed in the National Register of Historic Places .
Kennywood is owned by Kennywood  entertainment कम्पनी , जिससे जबतक दिसम्बर 2007 थी  a closely held family business owned by the Henninger and McSwigan families .
Kennywood Entertainment is now operated by California-based Palace Entertainment , a subsidiary of Parques  reunidos , an अंतरराष्ट्रीय  amusement park company based in Madrid , Spain .
parque reunidos  is in turn a subsidiary of Candover Investments , an investment fund based in the UK .
A Social Security card issued by the Railroad Retirement Board in 1943 to  a अभी मृतक  person .
In the United States , a Social Security number ( SSN ) is a nine-digit number issued to  u.S. नागरिकों , स्थाई निवासियों  , and temporary ( working ) residents under section 205 ( c ) ( 2 ) of the Social Security Act , codified as .
The number is  जारी to an व्यक्तिगत by the सोशल  Security Administration , an independent agency of the United States government .
Its  प्राथमिक purpose is to  track individuals for Social Security purposes .
A Social Security number may be obtained by applying on  रूप ss-5 , `` अनुप्रयोग लिये  A Social Security Number Card '' .
Minimalism describes movements in various forms of art and design , especially visual art and music , where the work is set out to expose the  essence or पहचान of a विषय through  eliminating all non-essential forms , features or concepts .
minimalism is  any design or style in which the simplest and fewest elements are used to create the maximum effect .
As a specific movement in the arts it is identified with  developments in  post–World War II Western Art , most strongly with American visual arts in the 1960s and early 1970s .
prominent कलाकारों  associated with this movement include Donald Judd , John McCracken , Agnes Martin , Dan Flavin , Robert Morris , Anne Truitt , and Frank Stella .
It is rooted in the  reductive पहलुओं of  Modernism , and is often interpreted as a reaction against Abstract expressionism and a bridge to Postminimal art practices .
The terms have expanded to encompass a movement in music which features repetition and iteration , as in the compositions of La Monte Young ,  टेरी रिले , स्टीव reich  , Philip Glass , and John Adams .
Minimalist compositions are  sometimes  known as systems music .
The term  `` अल्पतम '' is प्रायः लागू colloquially to designate anything कि is अतिरिक्त or stripped to इसके अनिवार्य .
It has also been used to describe the plays and novels of Samuel Beckett , the films of Robert Bresson , the stories of Raymond  carver , और भी  the automobile designs of Colin Chapman .
The word was first used in  अंग्रेज़ी in the जल्दी  20th century to describe the Mensheviks .
In chemistry and physics , Dalton 's law ( also called Dalton 's law of partial  pressures ) राज्य कि the कुल  pressure exerted by the mixture of non-reactive gases is equal to the sum of the partial pressures of individual gases .
This empirical law was  observed by जॉन डाल्टन  in 1801 and is related to the ideal gas laws .
mathematically  , the pressure of a mixture of gases can be defined as the summation
or
where  represent the आंशिक  pressure of each component .
It is  assumed  that the gases do not react with each other
where is the mole  भिन्न of the i-th घटक  in the total mixture of n components .
The relationship below provides a way to  determine the आवाज़ आधारित  concentration of any individual gaseous component
where is the concentration  of  the i-th component expressed in ppm .
Dalton 's law is not exactly  followed by रियल  gases .
Those deviations are  considerably विशाल at  high pressures .
In such conditions , the volume  occupied by the अणुओं  can become significant compared to the free space between them .
In  particular , the छोटी औसत दूरियाँ between  molecules raises the intensity of intermolecular forces between gas molecules enough to substantially change the pressure exerted by them .
Neither of those effects are considered by the  आदर्श  gas model .
This is a list of the largest  संयुक्त  States colleges and universities by enrollment for colleges and universities in the United States .
कया  this list includes:
कॉलेजों और विश्वविद्यालयों  within the United States
विश्वविद्यालयों प्रणालियों  if the system is run under a single administration
Enrollment is the sum of the headcount  of  undergraduate and graduate students
Enrollment is counted by the Integrated Post-secondary Education System within the U.S.  विभाग of  Education .
Enrollment is the 12-month unduplicated headcount , indicating the number of  अद्वितीय  students who attended the university during the year .
What  इस  list does not include:
कोई indication of कैसा अनेक of  the enrolled students are full or part time ( e.g. , some universities may have a high enrollment , but have most students enrolled in only a single class )
For other lists that measure  विश्वविद्यालयों नामांकन  , see the See Also section below .
`` Right Round '' is a song performed by American rapper Flo Rida , released as the lead single from his second studio album , R.O.O.T.S . (  2009  ) .
The   song features guest vocals from Kesha .
It was released to radio on 27 January 2009 and was  डिजिटली released on 10 फ़रवरी  by Poe Boy Entertainment and Atlantic Records .
The song lyrically speaks of Flo Rida 's net ball referee enthusiasm , while adapting the chorus of the 1984 Dead or Alive song `` You  स्पिन me गोलाकार ( जैसे a रिकार्ड ) ``  in its hook .
According to one of the song 's  लेखक ,  the chorus refers to oral sex .
Kesha contributed guest vocals to the song , but in the United  राज्य , दौरान the  run atop the chart , Kesha was uncredited .
The song  प्राप्त ज़्यादातर  negative reviews from critics , who claimed it was kitsch and misogynistic .
However  , it थी a वाणिज्यिक कामयाबी  , reaching the top ten of the charts in nineteen countries worldwide .
In the United States , it became Flo Rida 's  दूसरी number-one सिंगल और broke the रिकार्ड लिये first-week बिक्री  when it was released to digital retailers .
The single 's accompanying music video was directed by Malcolm Jones and  मनोनीत लिये  an MTV Video Music Award .
The song has been used in several movies , such as The Hangover , The Ugly Truth and  the तेलुगु  movie Pilla Zamindar .
in the फिल्म पिच पूर्ण  , the song is performed by the a cappella group the Treblemakers .
The Chief Justice of the United States is the head of the United States federal court system ( the judicial branch of the federal government  of  the United States ) and the chief judge of the Supreme Court of the United States .
The Chief Justice is one of nine Supreme Court justices ; the other eight are the Associate Justices of the Supreme  अदालत of the  United States .
From 1789 until 1866 , the office was  ज्ञात as  the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court .
The Chief Justice is the highest judicial officer  in the देश , और अधिनियमों  as a chief administrative officer for the federal courts and as head of the Judicial Conference of the United States appoints the director of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts .
The Chief Justice also serves as a  प्रवक्ता लिये  the judicial branch .
The Chief Justice leads the business of the Supreme  अदालत  .
He  presides over  oral arguments before the court .
When the court renders an opinion  ,  the Chief Justice—when in the majority—decides who writes the court 's opinion .
The Chief Justice also has significant  agenda-setting शक्ति  over the court 's meetings .
in the  case of an impeachment of a President of the United States , which has occurred twice , the Chief Justice presides over the trial in the Senate .
In modern tradition , the Chief Justice has the ceremonial duty of administering the oath of  दफ्तर of the अध्यक्ष of  the United States .
The  पहला मुख्य इंसाफ  was John Jay .
The 17th and  वर्तमान  Chief Justice is John G. Roberts , Jr .
Caribou near Prudhoe  खाड़ी ,  1973
Prudhoe Bay Oil Field is a large oil  फ़ील्ड on  Alaska 's North Slope .
It is the largest oil field in both the United  राज्य और in उत्तर अमेरिका  , covering and originally containing approximately of oil .
The amount of recoverable oil in the field is more than double that of the next largest field in the United   States , the East Texas oil field .
The field is operated by BP ; partners are ExxonMobil and  conocophillips  Alaska .
Labor unions are legally recognized as representatives of workers  in अनेक उद्योग  in the United States .
Their activity today centers on collective bargaining over wages , benefits , and working conditions  लिये उनके सदस्यता , और on representing उनके सदस्यों  in disputes with management over violations of contract provisions .
Larger unions also  typically engage in  lobbying activities and electioneering at the state and federal level .
Most unions in America are  लकीर साथ एक of दो larger छतरियाँ संगठन  : the AFL-CIO created in 1955 , and the Change to Win Federation which split from the AFL-CIO in 2005 .
Both advocate policies  और  legislation on behalf of workers in the United States and Canada , and take an active role in politics .
The  afl-cio is  especially concerned with global trade issues .
In 2010 , the percentage of  मजदूर belonging  to a union in the United States ( or total labor union `` density '' ) was 11.4 % , compared to 18.4 % in Germany , 27.5 % in Canada , and 70 % in Finland .
Union membership in the private sector has fallen under  7 % — स्तर नहीं देखी  since 1932 .
Unions   allege that employer-incited opposition has contributed to this decline in membership .
The most prominent unions are among  पब्लिक सेक्टर  employees such as teachers and police .
Members of unions are disproportionately older ,  पुरूष और  residents of the Northeast , the Midwest , and California .
Union workers average 10-30 % higher pay than non-union in America after controlling for  व्यक्तिगत , जॉब , और  labor market characteristics .
Although much smaller compared to their peak membership in the 1950s , American unions remain a prominent  राजनैतिक फ़ैक्टर ,  both through mobilization of their own memberships and through coalitions with like-minded activist organizations around issues such as immigrant rights , trade policy , health care , and living wage campaigns .
To fight  कथित  employer anti-union programs , unions are currently advocating new `` card check `` federal legislation that would require employers to bargain with a union if more than 50 % of workers signed forms , or `` cards , '' stating they wish to be represented by that union .
The current procedure involves waiting 45 to 90 days for a federally  पर्यवेक्षित secret-ballot  employee referendum on the subject .
The economist Joseph Stiglitz has asserted that , `` Strong unions have  helped to reduce असमानता , whereas weaker संघ have बना it easier लिये ceos  , sometimes working with market forces that they have helped shape , to increase it . ''
The decline in unionization since WWII in the  संयुक्त राज्य रै  been associated with a pronounced rise in income and wealth inequality .
A  ईसाई  Lacroix fashion boutique
A boutique is a small shopping outlet , especially one that specializes in elite and fashionable items such as clothing and  आभूषण  .
The word is French for `` shop '' , via  लैटिन इससे यूनानी  ἀποθήκη ( apothēkē ) , `` storehouse '' .
The term  डाला into रोज  English use in the late 1960s when , for a brief period , London was the centre of the fashion trade .
Carnaby Street and the Kings Road were the focus of much media  ध्यान as घर to  the most fashionable boutiques of the era .
Now the  ईस्ट of लंदन रै महरूम  regenerated and more Boutiques pop up in fashionable areas , such as Tower Bridge Road .
It can also refer to a specialised firm such as a boutique  निवेश बैंको or  boutique law firm .
The  शब्द is प्रायः प्रयुक्त to describe  a property in the independent section of the hotel market ( such as The Rockwell in London ) in order to distinguish themselves from larger chains ( such as Hilton Hotels ) .
In such cases  the establishments  aim to convey the idea that the operation is elite and highly specialised .
In the strictest sense of the word , boutiques would be one-of-a-kind but more generally speaking , some chains can be  referred to as boutiques  if they specialize in particular styles .
Recently , the term `` boutique '' has started being applied to normally-mass-market items that are either niche or produced in intentionally small numbers at very high   prices .
This may be  referred to as  boutique manufacturing .
For example , before  the रिलीज of the वी , a समय पत्रिका आलेख  suggested that Nintendo could become a `` boutique video-game company '' , producing games for niche audiences , rather than trying to compete directly with Microsoft and Sony .
In the traditional luxury- watch industry  scalfaro  International is considered as the precursor in manufacturing and sale of bespoke watches .
The Swiss company uses a highly flexible boutique  निर्माण  site , which allows producing small series or even unique timepieces .
Although some boutiques  specialise  in hand-made items and other truly one-of-a-kind items , others simply produce t-shirts , stickers , and other fashion accessories in artificially small runs and sell them at unusually high prices .
in the जल्दी 1990s सेलिना प्रारंभ निर्माण उसके अपना लकीर of महिलाओं 's कपडे  .
Opening two boutiques labeled as `` Selena Etc . Boutique & Salon '' One located in  कॉर्पस christi  and one located in San Antonio , Texas .
एक थी due to खोलें in monterrey  , Mexico , in 1995 but due to her death it was not opened .
Around 1999 the San Antonio location closed and  the  Corpus Christi location was closed in 2009 .
In late 1990s some European retail traders developed the idea of tailoring a shop towards a lifestyle theme , in the form of `` concept stores '' , which specialised in cross-selling without using separate  विभाग  .
One of the first concept stores was 10 Corso Como in  मिलान , इटली followed  by Colette in Paris and Quartier 206 in Berlin .
Several well-known American chains such as Urban Outfitters , D-A-S-H  , और the गैप , ऑस्ट्रेलियाई  chain Billabong and , though less common , Lord & Taylor adapted to the concept store trend after 2000 .
Navy Federal Credit Union ( or Navy Federal ) is a credit union headquartered in Vienna , Virginia , chartered and regulated under the authority of the National  क्रेडिट संघ प्रशासन ( ncua  ) of the U.S. federal government .
Navy Federal  is  the largest natural member ( or retail ) credit union in the world , both in asset size and in membership .
As of September 2012 ,  नेवी संघीय था over $ 50 अरब  USD in assets , and over 4 million members .
Stevland Hardaway Morris ( born May 13 , 1950 as Stevland  hardaway judkins )  , known by his stage name Stevie Wonder , is an American singer , songwriter , and multi-instrumentalist , a child prodigy who developed into one of the most creative musical figures of the late 20th century .
Blind since shortly after birth , Wonder signed with Motown 's Tamla  लेबल at the आयु of ग्यारह  , and continues to perform and record for Motown to this day .
Among Wonder 's best known works are singles such as `` Superstition `` , `` Sir Duke `` , `` You Are  the सनशाइन of my जीवन `` और `` i बस पुकारा  to Say I Love You `` .
Well known albums also include Talking Book ,  innervisions और गीतों in the  Key of Life .
He has recorded more than thirty U.S. top ten hits  और प्राप्त twenty-two ग्रैमी  Awards , the most ever awarded to a male solo artist .
Wonder is also noted for his work as an activist for political causes , including his 1980 campaign to make Martin Luther  किंग , jr. 's जन्मदिवस  a holiday in the United States .
In 2009 , Wonder was named a  संयुक्त राष्ट्र  Messenger of Peace .
In 2008 , Billboard magazine released a list of the Hot 100 All-Time Top Artists to celebrate the US singles chart 's  पचासवें वर्षगांठ , साथ  Wonder at number five .
By popular vote , Stevie was inducted  into the soulmusic  Hall of Fame at SoulMusic.com in December 2012 .
Psychosis ( from the Greek ψυχή `` psyche '' , for mind/soul , and -ωσις `` -osis '' , for abnormal condition or derangement ) refers to an abnormal  कंडीशन of the दिमाग , और is a जेनेरिक मनोरोग  term for a mental state often described as involving a `` loss of contact with reality `` .
People suffering from psychosis are described as  psychotic  .
Psychosis is given to the more severe forms of psychiatric disorder , during which hallucinations and delusions , gross excitement or stupor  and impaired insight  may occur .
The term `` psychosis '' is very broad and can mean anything from relatively normal aberrant experiences through to the  जटिल  and catatonic expressions of schizophrenia and bipolar type 1 disorder .
Moreover a wide variety of central nervous system diseases , from both external substances and internal physiologic illness , can produce  लक्षण of  psychosis .
This led many professionals to say that psychosis is not specific enough as a  निदान पद  .
Despite this , `` psychosis '' is generally given to noticeable deficits in normal behavior (  ऋणात्मक लक्षण ) और अधिक commonly to विविध प्रकार  of hallucinations or delusional beliefs ( e.g . grandiosity , delusions of persecution ) .
Someone exhibiting very obvious signs may be described as `` frankly psychotic '' ,  whereas एक exhibiting  very subtle signs could be classified in the category of an `` attenuated psychotic risk syndrome '' .
An excess in dopaminergic signalling is traditionally linked to the positive symptoms of psychosis  , विशेषकर  those of schizophrenia .
This is thought to occur through a mechanism of  aberrant salience  of environmental stimuli .
Many  antipsychotic  drugs accordingly target the dopamine system ; meta-analyses of placebo-controlled trials of these drugs , however , show either no significant difference between drug and placebo , or a very small effect size , suggesting that the pathophysiology of psychosis is much more complex than an overactive dopamine system .
People experiencing psychosis may  प्रदर्शनी कुछ  personality changes and thought disorder .
Depending on its severity , this may be  accompanied by असामान्य or विचित्र  behavior , as well as difficulty with social interaction and impairment in carrying out daily life activities .
सामान्य  Grievous is a fictional character in the Star Wars universe .
A recurring antagonist , he is the Supreme Commander of the Confederacy of Independent Systems  , a राजनैतिक गुट  of planetary systems waging war on the Galactic Republic .
Trained in all seven forms of lightsaber combat by Count  Dooku , he is  a ruthless and powerful warrior devoted to Jedi 's destruction during the Clone Wars .
His acts of wanton aggression and high Jedi body count would prompt the galaxy to give him the  उपनाम the knightslayer  .
Though the notorious Jedi slayer was the being in the galaxy during the  क्लोन युद्धों जो था मारे the सबसे जेडी  in single combat , he did not hesitate to flee from battles he knew he would lose .
Statistics play an important role in summarizing baseball performance and  evaluating खिलाड़ी in the  sport .
Since  the प्रवाह of a  baseball game has natural breaks to it , and normally players act individually rather than performing in clusters , the sport lends itself to easy record-keeping and statistics .
Statistics have been kept for professional baseball since the creation of  the नेशनल लीग  and American League , now part of Major League Baseball .
Many statistics are also  उपलब्धियाँ इससे बाहर of प्रमुख लीग बेसबॉल  , from leagues such as the National Association of Professional Base Ball Players and the Negro Leagues .
Dorothea Lange 's  migrant माँ  depicts destitute pea pickers in California , centering on Florence Owens Thompson , age 32 , a mother of seven children , in Nipomo , California , March 1936 .
USA annual  रियल जीडीपी  from 1910–60 , with the years of the Great Depression ( 1929–1939 ) highlighted .
The unemployment rate in the US  1910–1960 , साथ  the years of the Great Depression ( 1929–1939 ) highlighted .
The Great Depression was a severe  विश्वव्यापी  economic depression in the decade preceding World War II .
The timing of the Great Depression varied across nations , but in most countries it started in 1930 and lasted until  the लेट 1930s or मध्य  1940s .
It was the longest , most widespread ,  और deepest अवसाद  of the 20th century .
In  the 21st  century , the Great Depression is commonly used as an example of how far the world 's economy can decline .
The depression originated in the U.S. , after the  पतन in भण्डार कीमतें कि began around सितंबर  4 , 1929 , and became worldwide news with the stock market crash of October 29 , 1929 ( known as Black Tuesday ) .
The Great Depression had devastating effects  in देशों  rich and poor .
Personal income , tax revenue , profits  और  prices dropped , while international trade plunged by more than 50 % .
Unemployment in the U.S. rose to 25 % , and in some  देशों रोज़ as  high as 33 % .
Cities all around the world were hit  मुश्किल , विशेषकर  those dependent on heavy industry .
निर्माण  was virtually halted in many countries .
Farming and rural areas suffered  as क्रॉप कीमतें  fell by approximately 60 % .
Facing plummeting demand with few alternate  स्त्रोत of कार्य  , areas dependent on primary sector industries such as cash cropping , mining and logging suffered the most .
Some economies started to  रिकवर by the  mid-1930s .
In many countries , the negative effects of the Great Depression lasted until  the समाप्त of संसार युद्ध  II .
A premature ventricular contraction ( PVC ) , also known as a premature ventricular complex , ventricular premature contraction ( or complex or complexes ) ( VPC ) , ventricular premature beat ( VPB ) , or ventricular extrasystole ( VES ) , is a relatively common event where the heartbeat is initiated by Purkinje fibres in the ventricles  बल्कि than by the sinoatrial नोड , the  normal heartbeat initiator .
The electrical events of the  दिल  detected by the electrocardiogram allow a PVC to be easily distinguished from a normal heart beat .
A PVC may be perceived as a ``  छोड़ा ताल `` or  felt as palpitations in the chest .
In a normal heartbeat , the ventricles contract after the atria have helped to fill them by contracting  ; in  this way the ventricles can pump a maximized amount of blood both to the lungs and to the rest of the body .
In a PVC , the ventricles contract first and before the atria have optimally filled the ventricles with blood , which  अर्थात् कि परिसंचरण  is inefficient .
However , single beat PVC  arrhythmias do नहीं प्रायः  pose a danger and can be asymptomatic in healthy individuals .
William Gary Busey ( born June  29 , 1944 ) , बेहतर ज्ञात as  Gary Busey , is an American film and stage actor , and artist .
He has appeared in a variety of films , including  lethal हथियार , पाइंट ब्रेक , और अंतर्गत घेरा , as  well as guest appearances on Gunsmoke , Walker , Texas Ranger , Law & Order , and Entourage .
He  थी मनोनीत  for an Academy Award for Best Actor in 1978 for his role in The Buddy Holly Story .
The Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement ( ACTA ) , is a multinational treaty for the purpose of establishing international standards for  बौद्धिक प्रॉपर्टी  rights enforcement .
The agreement aims to establish an international legal  फ्रेमवर्क लिये लक्ष्यीकरण नकली goods ,  generic medicines and copyright infringement on the Internet , and would create a new governing body outside existing forums , such as the World Trade Organization , the World Intellectual Property Organization , or the United Nations .
The agreement was signed in October 2011 by Australia , Canada , Japan  , मोरक्को , नई जीलैंड , सिंगापुर , दक्षिण  Korea , and the United States .
In 2012 , Mexico , the European  संघ और  22 countries which are member states of the European Union signed as well .
One signatory ( Japan ) has ratified ( formally approved ) the agreement , which would come into force in countries that ratified it after ratification by  छह देशों  .
Supporters have described the  अनुबंध as a जवाब to `` the बढ़ाएँ  in global trade of counterfeit goods and pirated copyright protected works '' .
Trades Unions representing workers in the music , film and TV industries and large intellectual property-based organizations such as the Motion Picture Association of America and  फार्मास्युटिकल शोध और निर्माताओं  of America were active in the treaty 's development .
Opponents say the convention adversely  affects आधारभूत अधिकारों सहित स्वतंत्रता  of expression and privacy .
ACTA has also been criticised  by डॉक्टर  Without Borders for endangering access to medicines in developing countries .
The secret nature of negotiations has excluded civil society groups , developing countries and the general public from the agreement 's negotiation process and it has been described as policy laundering by critics including the Electronic Frontier Foundation and  the entertainment  Consumers Association .
The signature of the EU and many of its member states resulted in the resignation in protest of the European Parliament 's appointed chief  अन्वेषक , rapporteur कादर आरिफ , as खूब as  widespread protests across Europe .
In 2012 the newly-appointed rapporteur , British MEP David Martin ,  अनुशंसित विरूद्ध the सन्धि , stating : `` the intended लाभ of इस अंतरराष्ट्रीय  agreement are far outweighed by the potential threats to civil liberties '' .
On 4 July 2012 , the European  पार्लियामेंट अस्वीकृत  the agreement in plenary session , with 478 voting against the treaty , 39 in favour and 165 MEPs abstaining .
FAW  semi-trailer ट्रक  in China
Tractor with side dump trailer  semi-trailer
A tractor with an  auto-transport  semi-trailer .
semi-trailer ट्रक  with sleeper behind the cab .
A semi-trailer truck is an  articulated  vehicle that consists of a towing engine , known as a tractor in the United States and truck in many other places , attached to one or more semi-trailers to carry freight .
It is also known as a transport in Canada , prime mover in Australia , semi , tractor-trailer , truck and trailer , transfer truck , 18-wheeler , mack truck , big rig in the United States ,  or artic , छोटी लिये  articulated lorry , in Britain and Ireland .
A semi-trailer does not trail completely behind the towing vehicle , but is attached at a point  कि is बस आगे of the rear-most  axle of the towing unit .
This is done so that a fraction of the weight of the  ट्रेलर  is carried by the prime mover .
This arrangement means that both tractor  और semi-trailer  will have a distinctly different design than a rigid truck and trailer .
The Pittsburgh Steelers are  a पेशेवर  football team based in Pittsburgh , Pennsylvania .
the टोली फिलहाल belongs to the उत्तर प्रभाग of the अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल सम्मेलन ( afc ) in the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग ( एनएफएल ) .
Founded in , the Steelers are the  oldest मताधिकार  in the AFC .
Pittsburgh has won more Super Bowl titles ( six ) , won more AFC Championship Games ( eight ) and played in (  पंद्रह ) और hosted अधिक ( ग्यारह  ) conference championship games than any other AFC or NFC team .
The Steelers share the record for most Super Bowl  दिखावे  with the Dallas Cowboys ( eight ) .
The Steelers won their  सबसे हाल चैंपियनशिप , सुपर  Bowl XLIII , on February 1 , 2009 .
The Steelers were founded as the Pittsburgh Pirates on July 8 , 1933 , by Art Rooney , taking its original name from the baseball team of the  वही  name , as was common practice for NFL teams to do at the time .
The ownership  of the  Steelers has remained within the Rooney family since its founding .
The current owner is Art 's  बेटे , डान रूनी  , who has given much control of the franchise to his son Art Rooney II .
Long one of the NFL 's flagship teams , the Steelers enjoy a large ,  फैली fanbase nicknamed  Steeler Nation .
The Steelers currently play their home games at Heinz  फ़ील्ड on पिट्सबर्ग 's उत्तर पक्ष in the उत्तर  Shore neighborhood , which also hosts the University of Pittsburgh Panthers .
Built in 2001 , the stadium replaced Three  नदियाँ  Stadium which hosted the Steelers for 31 seasons .
Prior to Three  नदियाँ , the स्टीलर्स था निभाई  their games in Pitt Stadium and Forbes Field .
Three different kinds  of गेहूं और  rye flour
Flour is a powder which is made by grinding cereal grains , or other  बीज or  roots ( like Cassava ) .
It is  the प्रमुख संघटक of ब्रैड ,  which is a staple food for many cultures , making the availability of adequate supplies of flour a major economic and political issue at various times throughout history .
Wheat flour is one of the most important foods in  European , North  American , Middle Eastern , Indian and North African cultures , and is the defining ingredient in most of their styles of breads and pastries .
While wheat is the most common base for flour , corn flour has been important in Mesoamerican cuisine since ancient  टाइम्स , और  remains a staple throughout the Americas .
Rye flour is an important constituent of bread in much of central Europe , and rice can also be used in flour , though this is  अपेक्षाकृत  uncommon .
Heart rate is the  क्रमांक of  heartbeats per unit of time , typically expressed as beats per minute ( bpm ) .
Heart rate  can vary as  the body 's need to absorb oxygen and excrete carbon dioxide changes , such as during physical exercise , sleep , illness , or as a result of ingesting drugs :
Central  बेचैन प्रणाली  stimulants such as amphetamines increase heart rate .
Central nervous system depressants or sedatives decreases the heart   rate ( apart from some particularly strange ones with equally strange effects , such as ketamine which can cause - amongst many other things - stimulant-like effects such as tachycardia ) .
वहीँ  are many ways in which the heart rate speeds up or slows down .
Most involve stimulant-like endorphins and hormones  होने released in the दिमाग , अनेक  of which are those that are 'forced'/'enticed ' out by the ingestion and processing of drugs .
Due to individuals having a constant blood volume , one of the physiological ways to  उद्धार  more oxygen to an organ is to increase heart rate to permit blood to pass by the organ more often .
Normal resting  दिल  rates range from 60-100 bpm .
मंदनाड़ी  is defined as a resting heart rate below 60 bpm .
However , heart rates from 50 to 60  bpm  are common among healthy people and do not necessarily require special attention .
Tachycardia is defined as a resting heart rate above 100 bpm , though persistent  बाकी दरों between 80-100 bpm ,  mainly if they are present during sleep , may be signs of hyperthyroidism or anemia ( see below ) .
Catherine II 's  carved , चित्रित और gilded राजतिलक  Coach ( Hermitage Museum )
A carriage is a wheeled  गाडी लिये लोगों ,  usually horse-drawn ; litters ( palanquins ) and sedan chairs are excluded , since they are wheelless vehicles .
The carriage is especially  designed लिये  private passenger use and for comfort or elegance , though some are also used to transport goods .
It may be light , smart and fast or heavy ,  विशाल और  comfortable .
carriages सामान्यतः have  suspension using leaf springs , elliptical springs ( in the 19th century ) or leather strapping .
A public passenger  गाडी होता नहीं  usually be called a carriage – terms for such include stagecoach , charabanc and omnibus .
Working vehicles such as the ( four-wheeled ) wagon and ( two-wheeled ) cart share important parts of the history of the carriage , as is the fast (  two-wheeled  ) chariot .
The 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake was an undersea megathrust  भूकंप कि occurred at 00:58:53  UTC on Sunday , 26 December 2004 , with an epicentre off the west coast of Sumatra , Indonesia .
The quake itself is known by the scientific  जातियाँ as the sumatra–andaman  earthquake .
The resulting tsunami was given various names , including the 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami , South Asian tsunami ,  इंडोनेशियाई सुनामी ,  and the Boxing Day tsunami .
The earthquake was caused by  subduction  and triggered a series of devastating tsunamis along the coasts of most landmasses bordering the Indian Ocean , killing over 230,000 people in fourteen countries , and inundating coastal communities with waves up to high .
It was one of the  deadliest  natural disasters in recorded history .
Indonesia was the hardest-hit  देश ,  followed by Sri Lanka , India , and Thailand .
With a  परिमाण of mw 9.1–9.3 , it  is the third largest earthquake ever recorded on a seismograph .
The earthquake had the longest  अवधि of  faulting ever observed , between 8.3 and 10 minutes .
It caused the entire planet to vibrate as much as and triggered other  भूकंप  as far away as Alaska .
Its  epicentre थी between simeulue और मेनलैंड इंडोनेशिया .
the दुर्दशा of the प्रभावित लोगों और देशों prompted a विश्वव्यापी humanitarian जवाब .
In all , the worldwide   community donated more than $ 14 billion ( 2004 US $ ) in humanitarian aid .
Steam  उठती इससे the  Nesjavellir Geothermal Power Station in Iceland .
geothermal उर्जा is थर्मल उर्जा उत्पन्न और भंडारित in the  Earth .
Thermal energy is the energy that determines the  तापमान  of matter .
The  geothermal उर्जा of the  Earth 's crust originates from the original formation of the planet ( 20 % ) and from radioactive decay of minerals ( 80 % ) .
The geothermal gradient , which is the difference in temperature  between the कोर of the ग्रह  and its surface , drives a continuous conduction of thermal energy in the form of heat from the core to the surface .
The adjective geothermal originates from the Greek roots γη ( ge ) , meaning earth , and  θερμος ( thermos  ) , meaning hot .
At the core of the Earth , thermal energy is created by radioactive decay and  temperatures may पहुँचें over 5000 °c ( 9,000  °F ) .
Heat  conducts इससे the कोर  to surrounding cooler rock .
The high temperature and  दबाव  cause some rock to melt , creating magma convection upward since it is lighter than the solid rock .
The magma heats rock and   water in the crust , sometimes up to 370 °C ( 700 °F ) .
From hot springs , geothermal energy has been used for bathing since Paleolithic times and for space  हीटिंग चूंकि प्राचीन  Roman times , but it is now better known for electricity generation .
Worldwide , about 10,715 megawatts ( MW ) of  geothermal शक्ति  is online in 24 countries .
An additional 28 gigawatts of direct geothermal heating capacity is installed for district heating , space heating , spas ,  औद्योगिक प्रक्रियाओं , desalination और agricultural  applications .
Geothermal power is cost effective ,  विश्वसनीय  , sustainable , and environmentally friendly , but has historically been limited to areas near tectonic plate boundaries .
Recent technological advances have dramatically expanded the range and size of viable resources ,  विशेषकर लिये अनुप्रयोग  such as home heating , opening a potential for widespread exploitation .
Geothermal wells release greenhouse gases trapped deep within the earth , but these emissions are much lower per energy  ईकाई than those of चट्टान  fuels .
As a result , geothermal power has the potential to help mitigate  वैश्विक वार्मिंग  if widely deployed in place of fossil fuels .
The Earth 's geothermal resources are theoretically more than adequate to supply humanity   's energy needs , but only a very small fraction may be profitably exploited .
Drilling  और खोजी  for deep resources is very expensive .
Forecasts for the future of geothermal power   depend on assumptions about technology , energy prices , subsidies , and interest rates .
Pilot  कार्यक्रम जैसे eweb 's ग्राहक ऑप्ट in ग्रीन  Power Program show that customers would be willing to pay a little more for a renewable energy source like geothermal .
But as a result of government assisted research and industry experience , the  लागत of generating  geothermal power has decreased by 25 % over the past two decades .
In 2001 , geothermal energy cost between  दो और  ten cents per kwh .
The term cubic foot is an Imperial and  us  customary ( non- metric ) unit of volume , used in the United States and the United Kingdom .
It is defined as the volume of a cube with sides of one foot ( 0.3048 m ) in  लंबाई  .
To calculate  घन फीट गुणा  length X width X height .
Hồ Chí Minh ( Northern Vietnamese pronunciation : ,  दक्षिणी वियतनामी उच्चारण : ) ; 19 may 1890  – 2 September 1969 ) , born Nguyễn Sinh Cung and also known as Nguyễn Tất Thành and Nguyễn Ái Quốc , was a Vietnamese communist revolutionary leader who was prime minister ( 1945–1955 ) and president ( 1945–1969 ) of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam ( North Vietnam ) .
He was a key figure in the   foundation of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam in 1945 , as well as the People’s Army of Vietnam ( PAVN ) and the Việt Cộng ( NLF or VC ) during the Vietnam War .
He led the Việt Minh independence movement from 1941 onward , establishing the communist -ruled Democratic Republic of Vietnam in 1945 and defeating the French Union in 1954 at the  बैटल of điện biên phủ  .
He officially stepped down from power  in 1955 due to स्वास्थ्य समस्याएं  , but remained a highly visible figurehead and inspiration for those Vietnamese fighting for his cause—a united , communist Vietnam—until his death .
After the war ,  साइगॉन , पूंजी of the  Republic of Vietnam , was renamed Hồ Chí Minh City .
All Roads Lead Home is a feature film released on  सितंबर 26  , 2008 .
निर्देशित by डेनिस fallon  , it stars Peter Boyle , Patton Oswalt , Jason London , Vivien Cardone , Vanessa Branch , Peter Coyote , Stephen Milton , and Allan Kayser .
the  movie was filmed in and around Kansas City , Missouri .
The movie  बना इसके  World Premiere January 27 at the Santa Barbara International Film Festival .
The film has also recently been in several film  त्यौहार , और रै प्राप्त  bad reviews .
Peter Boyle  died पहले  the movie 's release .
It was the last movie he appeared   in .
Sales taxes in the United States are taxes placed on the sale or  पट्टे  of goods and services in the United States .
While no national general sales tax exists , the  संघीय सरकारी levies अनेक नेशनल  selective sales taxes on the sale or lease of particular goods and services .
Furthermore , forty-five states , the District of Columbia , and Guam impose general sales taxes that apply to the sale or lease of most goods and some services , and states also may levy selective sales taxes on the sale   or lease of particular goods or services .
States may also  प्रतिनिधि to  local governments the authority to impose additional general or selective sales taxes .
Sales tax is calculated by multiplying the purchase price by the applicable  कर  rate .
Tax  दरों vary  widely by jurisdiction and range from less than 1 % to over 10 % .
Sales  कर is एकत्रित  by the seller at the time of sale .
Use tax is self assessed by a buyer who has  नहीं सशुल्क बिक्री कर  on a taxable purchase .
Unlike the  मान added  tax , a sales tax is imposed only once , at the retail level .
However , in cases where items are sold at  खुदरा अधिक than एकबार  , such as used cars , the sales tax can be charged on the same item indefinitely .
The definition of retail  बिक्री और कया goods  and services are taxable vary among the states .
Nearly all jurisdictions provide numerous categories of goods and services that are exempt from sales tax , or taxed  at घटाया दरों  .
The purchase of goods for further manufacture or for resale is uniformly exempt  इससे  sales tax .
Most  jurisdictions  exempt food sold in grocery stores , prescription medications , and many agricultural supplies .
Sales taxes , including those imposed by local governments ,  हैं generally administered at  the state level .
States imposing  बिक्री  tax require retail sellers to collect tax from customers , file returns , and remit the tax to the state .
Procedural rules  vary  widely .
Sellers generally must collect tax from in-state purchasers unless  the क्रेता provides  an exemption certificate .
सबसे राज्य  allow or require electronic remittance .
A central processing unit ( CPU ) , also  referred to as  a central processor unit , is the hardware within a computer that carries out the instructions of a computer program by performing the basic arithmetical , logical , and input/output operations of the system .
The term has been in use in  the कंप्यूटर उद्योग  at least since the early 1960s .
the रूप , डिज़ाइन , और क्रियान्वयन  of CPUs have changed over the course of their history , but their fundamental operation remains much the same .
A computer can have more than one CPU ; this is  पुकारा multiprocessing  .
Some integrated circuits ( ICs ) can contain multiple CPUs on a single chip  ; those ics हैं  called multi-core processors .
Two typical components of a CPU are the arithmetic logic unit ( ALU ) , which  performs गणित और लॉजिकल परिचालन , और the कंट्रोल  unit ( CU ) , which extracts instructions from memory and decodes and executes them , calling on the ALU when necessary .
Not all computational systems rely on a  सेंट्रल प्रसंस्करण  unit .
An array processor or vector processor has multiple  समानांतर कम्प्यूटिंग तत्व , साथ no  one unit considered the `` center '' .
In the distributed computing model , problems  हैं हल by a  distributed interconnected set of processors .
RFID chip next to  a अनाज of राइस  .
This chip contains a  radio-frequency इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक  field coil that modulates an external magnetic field to transfer a coded identification number when queried by a reader device .
This small type is  incorporated in उपभोक्ता  products , and implanted in pets , for identification purposes .
Radio-frequency identification ( RFID ) is the wireless non-contact use of radio-frequency electromagnetic fields to transfer data , for the purposes  of  automatically identifying and tracking tags attached to objects .
The tags contain electronically  भंडारित सूचना  .
Some tags are powered and  पढ़ा  at short ranges ( a few meters ) via magnetic fields ( electromagnetic induction ) .
Others use a local power source such as a battery , or else have no battery but collect energy from the  interrogating em फ़ील्ड , और  then act as a passive transponder to emit microwaves or UHF radio waves ( i.e. , electromagnetic radiation at high frequencies ) .
Battery powered tags may operate at hundreds of  मीटर  .
Unlike a bar code , the tag does not necessarily need to be within line of sight  of the रीडर  , and may be embedded in the tracked object .
RFID tags are used in many  उद्योग  .
An RFID tag attached to an automobile during production can be used to track  इसके प्रगति  through the assembly line .
दवाएँ  can be tracked through warehouses .
Livestock and pets may have  टैग injected  , allowing positive identification of the animal .
Since RFID tags can be attached to clothing , possessions , or even implanted within people , the possibility  of  reading personally-linked information without consent has raised privacy concerns .
Overtime is the amount of time  किसी works परे  normal working hours .
Normal  घंटों may be संकल्पित  in several ways:
by  कस्टम  ( what is considered healthy or reasonable by society ) ,
by  practices of  a given trade or profession,
by  legislation,
by   agreement between employers and workers or their representatives .
Most nations have overtime labor laws designed to dissuade or prevent employers from forcing their employees  to कार्य excessively  long hours .
These laws may take into account other  considerations than the humanitarian  , such as preserving the health of workers so that they may continue to be productive , or increasing the overall level of employment in the economy .
One common  दृष्टिकोण  to regulating overtime is to require employers to pay workers at a higher hourly rate for overtime work .
Companies may choose to pay workers higher overtime pay even if not obliged to do so by law , particularly if they believe that  वे फेस a पिछड़ा  bending supply curve of labour .
Overtime pay rates can cause workers to work longer  घंटों than वे होता  at a flat hourly rate .
Overtime laws , attitudes toward overtime and hours of work vary greatly from country to country and between  अलग आर्थिक  sectors .
Visualization of links between pages on a wiki  using a force-directed  layout .
force-directed आलेख आरेखण algorithms हैं  a class of algorithms for drawing graphs in an aesthetically pleasing way .
Their purpose is to position the nodes of a graph in two-dimensional or three-dimensional space so that all the edges are of more or less equal length and there are as few crossing edges as possible , by assigning forces among the set of edges and the set of nodes , based on their relative  positions  , and then using these forces either to simulate the motion of the edges and nodes or to minimize their energy .
While graph drawing can be a difficult problem , force-directed algorithms , being physical simulations , usually require no special knowledge about  आलेख सिद्धान्त ऐसे as planarity  .
Purchasing power ( sometimes retroactively called adjusted for inflation ) is the  राशि of goods or सेवाएं कि can be खरीदा  with a unit of currency .
For example , if you had taken one dollar to a store in the 1950s , you would  have महरूम समर्थ to ख़रीदे a वृहद क्रमांक of वस्तुएं than तुम  would today , indicating that you would have had a greater purchasing power in the 1950s .
Currency can be either a commodity money , like  सुनहरा or चांदी , or fiat करेंसी , or  free-floating market-valued currency like US dollars .
As Adam Smith noted , having money gives one the ability to ``  कमांड '' अन्य ' मजदूर , so खरीदना  power to some extent is power over other people , to the extent that they are willing to trade their labor or goods for money or currency .
If one 's  मौद्रिक  income stays the same , but the price level increases , the purchasing power of that income falls .
Inflation does not always imply falling purchasing power of one 's money income  चूंकि it  may rise faster than the price level .
A higher real  आय अर्थात्  a higher purchasing power since real income refers to the income adjusted for inflation .
For a price index , its value in the base   year is usually normalized to a value of 100 .
The purchasing power of a unit  of करेंसी  , say a dollar , in a given year , expressed in dollars of the base year , is 100/P , where P is the price index in that year .
So , by definition the purchasing power of a dollar  decreases as the दाम  level rises .
The purchasing power in today 's money of  an राशि  C of money , t years into the future , can be computed with the formula for the present value :
where in this  मामला i is an  assumed future annual inflation rate .
Education in South Korea is viewed as being  निर्णायक  for success and competition is consequently very heated and fierce .
A central  प्रशासन oversees  the process for the education of children from kindergarten to the third and final year of high school .
Mathematics , science , Korean , English ,  और सोशल अध्ययन  are generally considered to be the most important subjects .
सामान्यतः शारीरिक शिक्षा is नहीं  considered important as it is not recognised , by the generally academic elitist South Korean populace , as education and therefore many schools lack high-quality gymnasiums and varsity athletics .
South  कोरियाई थी the पहला  country in the world to provide high-speed internet access to all primary , junior , and high schools .
Although South Korean students often rank highly on  अंतरराष्ट्रीय तुलनात्मक आकलन जब compared  to students of most Western education systems , the South Korean education system is criticised for emphasising too much upon passive learning and memorisation .
The South Korean education system is rather notably strict and overly structured as compared to its  counterparts in सबसे पश्चिमी  societies .
Also , the prevalence of non-school for-profit private institutes such as academies or cram-schools ( Hagwon [ 학원 ] ) , which too  emphasise on passive memorisation , as  opposed to conceptual understanding , in students are criticised as a major social problem .
The My Lai Massacre ( , ; , , or ) was the Vietnam War mass murder of between 347 and 504  निहत्थे नागरिकों in दक्षिण वियतनाम on कूच 16 , 1968 , by संयुक्त राज्य फौज  soldiers of `` Charlie '' Company of 1st Battalion , 20th Infantry Regiment , 11th Brigade of the Americal Division .
Victims included women , men  , children , और infants  .
Some of the women were gang-raped and their bodies were later found to be  mutilated और अनेक महिलाओं यहूद  allegedly raped prior to the killings .
While 26  u.S. सैनिको  were initially charged with criminal offenses for their actions at Mỹ Lai , only Second Lieutenant William Calley , a platoon leader in Charlie Company , was convicted .
Found guilty of killing 22 villagers , he was originally given a  जीवन वाक्य , लकिन तभी  served three and a half years under house arrest .
The massacre  took प्लेस  in the hamlets of My Lai and My Khe of Son My village .
The event is also known as the Son My Massacre ,   especially in the Vietnamese state media .
The U.S.  सैन्य  codeword for the `` Viet Cong stronghold '' was `` Pinkville '' .
The incident prompted  वैश्विक  outrage when it became public knowledge in 1969 .
The massacre also increased domestic opposition to the U.S.  भागीदारी  in the Vietnam War .
Three U.S. servicemen who had tried to halt the massacre and  protect the wounded यहूद initially  denounced by several U.S . Congressmen as traitors .
They  प्राप्त नफ़रत मेल  and death threats and found mutilated animals on their doorsteps .
The three were later  widely  praised and decorated by the Army for their heroic actions .
The hijackers  in the सितंबर 11 हमले यहूद  19 men affiliated with al-Qaeda , and 15 of the 19 were citizens of Saudi Arabia .
Others were from Egypt , Lebanon , and  the  UAE .
The hijackers were organized into four teams , each led by a pilot-trained hijacker with four `` muscle hijackers '' who were  प्रशिक्षित to सहायता subdue the पायलटों , यात्री  , and crew .
The first hijackers to arrive in the United States were Khalid al-Mihdhar and Nawaf al-Hazmi , who settled  in the सैन  Diego area in January 2000 .
They were followed by three hijacker-pilots , Mohamed Atta , Marwan al-Shehhi , and Ziad Jarrah early in the summer of 2000 to  undertake उड़ान प्रशिक्षण  in south Florida .
The fourth hijacker-pilot , Hani Hanjour , arrived in San  डिएगो in दिसम्बर  2000 .
The rest of the `` muscle hijackers  '' arrived in the वसन्त और जल्दी  summer of 2001 , just months before the September 11 attacks .
Abū al-Qāsim Muḥammad ibn ʿAbd Allāh ibn ʿAbd al-Muṭṭalib ibn Hāshim ( ) ( circa| 570 – circa| 8 June 632 ) , also transliterated as Muhammad ( ) , was a religious , political , and  सैन्य  leader from Mecca who unified Arabia into a single religious polity under Islam .
He is believed by Muslims and  bahá'ís to be a मेसेंजर  and prophet of God .
Muhammad is almost universally considered by Muslims as the  पिछला नबी भेजा by परमेश्वर  for mankind .
Non-Muslims regard Muhammad as  the संस्थापक  of Islam .
Muslims consider him to be the restorer of an unaltered  असली monotheistic  faith of Adam , Noah , Abraham , Moses , Jesus , and other prophets .
Born in about 570 CE in the Arabian city of Mecca , he was orphaned at an early age  और brought up अंतर्गत  the care of his uncle Abu Talib .
He later worked  ज़्यादातर as a व्यापारी  , as well as a shepherd , and was first married by age 25 .
Being in the habit of periodically  retreating to a गुफा in the surrounding  mountains for several nights of seclusion and prayer , he later reported that it was there , at age 40 , that he received his first revelation from God .
Three years after this event Muhammad  प्रारंभ उपदेश  these revelations publicly , proclaiming that `` God is One `` , that complete `` surrender '' to Him ( lit .
islām ) is the only way ( dīn ) acceptable to God , and that he  खुद थी  a prophet and messenger of God , in the same vein as other Islamic prophets .
Muhammad gained few followers  जल्दी on , और थी  met with hostility from some Meccan tribes ; he and his followers were treated harshly .
To escape persecution ,  मुहम्मद भेजा  some of his followers to Abyssinia before he and his followers in Mecca migrated to Medina ( then known as Yathrib ) in the year 622 .
इस इवेंट , the हिज्र , marks the शुरूआत of the इस्लामी पंचांग , जिससे is भी ज्ञात as the hijri पंचांग  .
In Medina ,  मुहम्मद  united the tribes under the Constitution of Medina .
After eight years of fighting  साथ the meccan जनजातियों , उसके अनुसरणकर्ता , जो by तब  had grown to 10,000 , took control of Mecca in the largely peaceful Conquest of Mecca .
He destroyed the pagan idols in the city and then sent his followers out to destroy  सब of the बाकी pagan मंदिरों  in Eastern Arabia .
In 632 , a few months after returning to Medina from The Farewell  यात्राएं  , Muhammad fell ill and died .
By the  समय of उसके मौत , सबसे of the  Arabian Peninsula had converted to Islam , and he had united Arabia into a single Muslim religious polity .
The  खुलासे  ( or Ayah , lit .
``  लक्षण [ of परमेश्वर ] '' ) — जिससे मुहम्मद  reported receiving until his death – form the verses of the Quran , regarded by Muslims as the `` Word of God '' and around which the religion is based .
besides the कुरान , मुहम्मद  's life ( sira ) and traditions ( sunnah ) are also upheld by Muslims as the sources of sharia law .
They discuss Muhammad and other prophets of Islam with reverence , adding the phrase  सलाम  be upon him whenever their names are mentioned .
While conceptions of Muhammad in  मध्यकालीन christendom और premodern टाइम्स  were largely negative , appraisals in modern history have been far less so .
This is a list of tables of the verified oldest people in the  संसार in ordinal रैंक  , such as oldest person or oldest man .
In these tables , a  supercentenarian is माना 'verified  ' if his or her claim has been validated by an international body that specifically deals in longevity research , such as the Gerontology Research Group ( GRG ) or Guinness World Records .
The longest unambiguously documented human lifespan is that of Jeanne Calment of  फ़्रांस ( 1875–1997 ) , जो died at आयु 122 सालो , 164  days .
She met Vincent van Gogh when she  थी 12  or 13 .
This led to news media attention in 1985 , after  calment  turned 110 .
Subsequent investigation found documentation for Calment 's age  , परे कोई उचित  question , in the records of her native city , Arles , France .
More evidence of Calment 's lifespan has been produced than for any other supercentenarian ; her case serves as an archetype in  the methodology लिये verifying the  ages of the world 's oldest people .
The longest  undisputed  lifespan for male supercentenarians is that of Jiroemon Kimura , who currently lives in Japan and is age as of .
Since the death of 115-year old Dina Manfredini of the United States , on 17 December 2012 , Kimura , born 19 April 1897 , is the oldest  जीना व्यक्ति in  the world whose age can be documented .
He has also  been  the oldest living man since the death of 114-year old Walter Breuning on 14 April 2011 .
Since the death of 115-year old Koto Okubo of Japan on 12 January 2013 ,  the  oldest living woman has been -year-old Misao Okawa , also from Japan , born on 5 March 1898 .
This is a timeline of the  african-american  Civil Rights Movement .
The Civil  अधिकारों  movement was a freedom struggle by African Americans in the 1950s and 1960s to gain equality .
The goals of the movement were freedom from discrimination , equal opportunity in employment , education and housing , the right to vote and equal  अभिगम to पब्लिक सुविधाएं  .
Heavy metal ( often referred to as metal ) is a genre of rock music  कि विकसित in the लेट 1960s  and early 1970s , largely in the United Kingdom and in the United States .
With roots in blues rock and psychedelic rock , the bands that created heavy metal developed a thick , massive sound , characterized by highly  प्रवर्धित  distortion , extended guitar solos , emphatic beats , and overall loudness .
Heavy metal lyrics and  प्रदर्शन  styles are generally associated with masculinity and machismo .
The first heavy metal bands such as Led Zeppelin , Deep  जामुनी और  Black Sabbath attracted large audiences , though they were often derided by critics , a status common throughout the history of the genre .
In the mid-1970s Judas Priest helped spur the genre 's evolution by discarding much of its blues influence ; Motörhead  introduced a पंक  rock sensibility and an increasing emphasis on speed .
Bands in the New Wave of British Heavy Metal such as Iron Maiden followed in a  समान रग  .
Before the end of the decade , heavy metal fans  became ज्ञात  as `` metalheads `` or `` headbangers `` .
During the 1980s ,  glam मेटल became a वाणिज्यिक  force with groups like Mötley Crüe and Poison .
Underground scenes produced an array of more extreme , aggressive  शैलियाँ : thrash मेटल broke into the मुख्यधारा साथ bands ऐसे as मेटालिका  , Megadeth , Slayer , and Anthrax , while other styles of the most extreme subgenres of metal like death metal and black metal remain subcultural phenomena .
Since the mid-1990s , popular styles such as nu metal , which often incorporates  तत्व of grunge और हिप हॉप ; और metalcore  , which blends extreme metal with hardcore punk , have further expanded the definition of the genre .
The far-right ( also known as the extreme right ) refers to the highest degree of  rightism in right-wing  politics .
Far right politics involves support of strong or complete social hierarchy in society , and supports supremacy of certain individuals or groups deemed to be innately superior or preferable who are to be more  valued than those deemed to be innately अवर or अवांछनीय  .
The far right 's advocacy of supremacism is based on  कया इसके adherents  perceive as innate characteristics of people that can not be changed .
This stands as a point of difference with the centre-right 's attribution of behaviours , such as laziness or decadence , as the primary sources of  सोशल inequalities  .
The centre right—unlike  the far right—claims  that people can end their behavioural inferiority through changing their habits and choices .
The original far right , which emerged in France after the French  Revolution ,  refused to accept the French Republic and supported a counter-revolution to restore the French monarchy and aristocracy .
The far right is commonly associated with persons or  समूह जो थाम चरम  nationalist , xenophobic , racist , religious fundamentalist or reactionary views .
The most extreme-right movements have pursued  दमन और नरसंहार  against groups of people on the basis of their alleged inferiority .
Thomas Hobbes of Malmesbury ( 5 April 1588 – 4 December 1679 ) , in some older texts Thomas Hobbs of Malmsbury , was an English philosopher , best known today  लिये  his work on political philosophy .
His 1651 book Leviathan established the foundation for most of  पश्चिमी राजनैतिक  philosophy from the perspective of social contract theory .
Hobbes was a champion of absolutism for the sovereign , but he also developed some of the fundamentals of European liberal thought : the right of the individual ; the natural equality of all men ; the artificial character of the political order ( which led to the later distinction between civil society and the state ) ; the view that all legitimate political power must be ``  प्रतिनिधि '' और आधारित on the सहमति of the लोगों ; और  a liberal interpretation of law which leaves people free to do whatever the law does not explicitly forbid .
He was one of  the संस्थापकों  of modern political philosophy .
His understanding of humans as being matter and motion , obeying the same physical laws as other matter and motion , remains influential ; and his account of human nature as self-interested  सहयोग , और of राजनैतिक समुदायों  as being based upon a `` social contract `` remains one of the major topics of political philosophy .
In  जोड to राजनैतिक दर्शनशास्त्र  , Hobbes also contributed to a diverse array of other fields , including history , geometry , the physics of gases , theology , ethics , and general philosophy .
Emotional intelligence ( EI ) is the ability to identify , assess , and control the emotions of  oneself , of अन्य , और of समूह  .
It can be divided into  क्षमता  EI and trait EI .
Ability EI is usually measured using maximum performance tests and has stronger relationships  साथ परंपरागत प्रज्ञा , whereas  trait EI is usually measured using self-report questionnaires and has stronger relationships with personality .
Criticisms have centered on whether EI is a real intelligence and   whether it has incremental validity over IQ and the Big Five personality traits .
Heredity is the passing of traits to  औलाद इससे  its parents or ancestor .
This is the process   by which an offspring cell or organism acquires or becomes predisposed to the characteristics of its parent cell or organism .
Through heredity   , variations exhibited by individuals can accumulate and cause some species to evolve .
The study of heredity in  जीवविज्ञान is पुकारा  genetics , which includes the field of epigenetics .
For United States individual income tax , adjusted gross income ( AGI ) is total gross income  ऋण विशिष्ट  reductions .
Taxable income is  समायोजित सकल आय ऋण भत्तों  for personal exemptions and itemized deductions .
For most individual  कर  purposes , AGI is more relevant than gross income .
Gross income is sales price of goods or property , minus cost of the  प्रॉपर्टी बेची  , plus other income .
It includes wages , interest , dividends , business income , rental income , and all  अन्य  types of income .
Adjusted gross income is gross income less deductions from a business or rental  कार्यकलाप और 21 अन्य विशिष्ट  items .
Several deductions ( e.g . medical expenses and miscellaneous itemized  deductions ) हैं सीमित  based on a percentage of AGI .
Certain phase outs , including those of lower tax rates  और  itemized deductions , are based on levels of AGI .
Many states  आधार राज्य  income tax on AGI with certain deductions .
`` Lazy Eye '' is the third single from  silversun pickups  ' debut album Carnavas .
The band performed the song on the Late Show with David Letterman ,  the  Tonight Show with Jay Leno , Later With Jools Holland , and Last Call with Carson Daly .
The song is a playable track on Rock  बैंड 2 और  Guitar Hero : World Tour .
An  वैकल्पिक संस्करण of the सोंग , साथ  a length of 7:27 , was played on XMU before the shorter version was played on FM and other XM channels .
इस संस्करण थी प्रदर्शित  on their demo CD ( which featured early versions of four tracks ) .
A telephone prefix is the first set of digits of a telephone number ; in the North American Numbering Plan countries (  देश कोड 1 ) , it is the पहला  three digits of a seven-digit phone number .
In other countries both the prefix and the number  may have अलग  lengths .
It shows which exchange  the बाकी  numbers refer to .
A full telephone number is usually made up of country code ( required for international calls only ) , area code ( required  लिये काल्स between टेलीफोन क्षेत्रों  ) , prefix , and subscriber number .
कुछ स्थान सीमित निश्चित  prefixes to fax numbers or cell phones only ; in other places such dedicated prefixes are not used .
As telephone technology advanced , the precise significance of the prefix became blurred in many places ; 485 in London , UK , was once the GULliver exchange , but now 44207485xxxx is  बस माना एक of अनेक क्रमांक  blocks served by the CLKEN Kentish Town exchange ; 4420770703xx is another .
Metformin  (  BP , pronounced , ; originally sold as Glucophage ) is an oral antidiabetic drug in the biguanide class .
It is the first-line drug of choice for the treatment of type 2  मधुमेह  , in particular , in overweight and obese people and those with normal kidney function .
Its use in gestational  मधुमेह रै  been limited by safety concerns .
it is भी प्रयुक्त in the उपचार  of polycystic ovary syndrome , and has been investigated for other diseases where insulin resistance may be an important factor .
Metformin works by suppressing glucose production by the  जिगर  .
Metformin is the only antidiabetic drug that has  महरूम conclusively दिखाया  to prevent the cardiovascular complications of diabetes .
It helps reduce LDL cholesterol and triglyceride levels , and is not associated with  वज़न  gain .
, metformin is one of only two oral antidiabetics in the  संसार स्वास्थ्य संगठन  Model List of Essential Medicines ( the other being glibenclamide ) .
When prescribed appropriately , metformin causes few adverse  प्रभाव ( the सबसे आम is जठरांत्र  upset ) and is associated with a low risk of hypoglycemia .
Lactic acidosis ( a buildup of lactate in the blood ) can  be a गंभीर चिंता in overdose  and when it is prescribed to people with contraindications , but otherwise , there is no significant risk .
First synthesized and found to  reduce रक्त शुगर in the 1920s , metformin  was forgotten for the next two decades as research shifted to insulin and other antidiabetic drugs .
ब्याज in metformin  was rekindled in the late 1940s after several reports that it could reduce blood sugar levels in people , and in 1957 , French physician Jean Sterne published the first clinical trial of metformin as a treatment for diabetes .
It was introduced to the United Kingdom in 1958 , Canada  in 1972 , और the संयुक्त  States in 1995 .
Metformin is now believed to be the most widely  विहित antidiabetic ड्रग in  the world ; in the United States alone , more than 48 million prescriptions were filled in 2010 for its generic formulations .
The Mount Rushmore National Memorial is a sculpture carved into the granite face of Mount Rushmore near Keystone , South Dakota , in the United  राज्य  .
sculpted by danish-american gutzon borglum और उसके बेटे , lincoln borglum  , Mount Rushmore features sculptures of the heads of four United States presidents : George Washington , Thomas Jefferson , Theodore Roosevelt and Abraham Lincoln .
The entire memorial covers and is  ऊपर समुद्र  level .
The tallest  पहाड़ in the प्रदेश  is Harney Peak ( ) .
South Dakota historian Doane Robinson is  credited साथ conceiving  the idea of carving the likenesses of famous people into the Black Hills region of South Dakota in order to promote tourism in the region .
Robinson 's initial idea was to sculpt the Needles ; however , Gutzon Borglum rejected the Needles site  क्युकी of the ग़रीब विशेषता  of the granite and strong opposition from environmentalists and Native American groups .
They settled on the Mount Rushmore location , which also has the advantage of facing southeast for  अधिकतम  sun exposure .
Robinson wanted it to feature western heroes like Lewis and Clark , Red Cloud and Buffalo Bill Cody  लकिन borglum decided  the sculpture should have a more national focus , and chose the four presidents whose likenesses would be carved into the mountain .
After securing federal funding , construction on the memorial began in 1927 , and the  राष्ट्रपतियों ' चेहरों  were completed between 1934 and 1939 .
Upon Gutzon Borglum 's  मौत  in March 1941 , his son Lincoln Borglum took over construction .
Although the initial concept called for each president to be  चित्रित इससे सिर  to waist , lack of funding forced construction to end in late October 1941 .
The U.S. National Park Service took control of the memorial in 1933 , while it was still under construction , and has managed  the मेमोरियल  to the present day .
it attracts  nearly three million people annually .
Charvet dress shirt from the 1930s , Norsk Folkemuseum ,  ओस्लो .
A shirt , dress shirt , button-front , button-front shirt , or button-up shirt is a garment with a collar , a full-length opening at the front from the collar to  the हेम , और टाँक  with cuffs .
Shirts are predominantly used by men  , चूंकि महिलाओं  usually wear blouses .
The front opening is fastened using buttons or studs , and the cuffs  बंद साथ  buttons or cuff links .
शर्ट हैं सामान्यतः बना इससे woven cloth  , and are often accompanied by a jacket and tie , for example with a suit or formalwear , but shirts are also worn more casually .
In British English , dress shirt means specifically the more formal evening garment worn with black- or white- tie , also  discussed नीचे  .
Some of these formal shirts have stiff fronts and detachable collars attached  साथ कॉलर  studs .
The term `` button-down '' ( which refers  a type of shirt which  has a collar fastened down by buttons ) is sometimes used in error to apply to all shirts ( with or without buttoned down collars ) , being used as a synonym for `` button-up '' or `` button-front '' .
प्रशासनिक पेशेवर दिन ( भी ज्ञात  as Secretaries Day or Admin Day ) is an unofficial secular holiday observed in several countries to recognize the work of secretaries , administrative assistants , receptionists , and other administrative support professionals .
In North America , it is  मनाये on the  Wednesday of the last full week of April ( April 24 in 2013 ) .
In France it is celebrated on the third Thursday in  अप्रैल ( अप्रैल 18  in 2013 ) .
In Australia  it is मनाये  on the first Friday in May
Blasting  can  be:
अक्खड़  blasting
धमाका  furnace
चट्टान  blasting
Nicolas Poussin ( ; 15 June 1594 – 19 November 1665 ) was the leading painter of the  शास्त्रीय फ्रेंच  Baroque style , although he spent most of his working life in Rome .
His work is characterized by clarity ,  लॉजिक ,  and order , and favors line over color .
Until the 20th century he remained a major inspiration for such classically oriented artists as  jacques-louis दाउद , jean-auguste-dominique ingres और  Paul Cézanne .
He worked in Rome for a circle of leading collectors there and elsewhere , except for a short period  जब कार्डिनल  Richelieu ordered him back to France to serve as First Painter to the King .
Most of his works are history paintings of religious or mythological subjects that very often have a  विशाल लैंडस्केप  element .
Jackie Keith Whitley ( July 1 , 1954Stambler , Irwin , and Grelun Landon ( 2000 ) . - Country Music : The Encyclopedia . - New York : St. Martin 's Press . - p.533 . - ISBN 978-0-312-26487-1.—Carlin , Richard ( 2003 ) . - Country Music : A Biographical Dictionary . - New York : Routledge - p.427 . - ISBN 978-0-415-93802-0.—Larkin , Colin ( 1995 ) . - The Guinness Encyclopedia of Popular Music . - New York : Stockton Press - P.4462 . - ISBN 978-0-85112-662-3.—Stanton , Scott ( 2003 ) . - The  tombstone पर्यटक : संगीतकारों . - नई यॉर्क : जेब किताबे . - p.395 . - isbn 978-0-7434-6330-0.—hicks , जोकर . - `` सिंगर कैथ whitley 's मेमोरी जिंदा through गीतों , प्रेम in घर कस्बा '' .  - The Kentucky Post . - September 25 , 1991.— '' Country Music Star Keith Whitley Dead at 33 '' . - Lexington Herald-Leader . - May 10 , 1989.——Hurst , Jack . - `` Whitley 's Last Days '' . - Chicago Tribune . - May 14 , 1989.— '' Alcohol Kills Country Singer Keith Whitley '' . - United Press International . - ( c/o The San Francisco Chronicle ) . - May 10 , 1989 . — May 9 , 1989 ) , known professionally as Keith Whitley , was an American country music singer .
Whitley 's brief career in mainstream country music lasted from 1984 until his death in 1989 , but he continues to  influence an संपूर्ण पीढी  of singers and songwriters .
He charted 19 singles on the Billboard country charts , including five consecutive Number Ones : `` Do n't Close Your Eyes `` , `` When You Say Nothing at All `` , `` I 'm No Stranger to the Rain `` , `` I  अचरज do तुम सोचो of me `` और `` it ai n't nothin ' ``  ( the last two posthumously ) .
Statute of Grand Duchy of Lithuania  , लिखा  in Polish
A statute is a formal written enactment of a legislative authority that  governs a राज्य  , city , or county .
Typically , statutes command  or prohibit कुछ  , or declare policy .
The word is often used to distinguish law  बना by विधान  bodies from case law , decided by courts , and regulations issued by government agencies .
Statutes are sometimes referred to as legislation  or `` ब्लैक अक्षर विधि  . ''
As a source of law ,  statutes हैं माना प्राथमिक प्राधिकार  ( as opposed to secondary authority ) .
Ideally all statutes must be in harmony   with the fundamental law of the land ( constitutional ) .
This  शब्द  is used in contradistinction to the common law .
statutes  acquire their force from the time of their passage , however unless otherwise provided .
Statutes are of  अनेक kinds  ; namely , Public or private .
declaratory  or remedial .
अस्थाई  or perpetual .
A temporary  statute is एक जिससे  is limited in its duration at the time of its enactment .
It  continues in फ़ोर्स जबतक  the time of its limitation has expired , unless sooner repealed .
A perpetual statute is one for  the फिराकर of जिससे वहीँ is  no limited time , although it may not be expressly declared to be so .
if , however , a statute जिससे  did not itself contain any limitation is to be governed by another which is temporary only , the former will also be temporary and dependent upon the existence of the latter .
Before a statute becomes law in some countries , it must be agreed upon by the highest executive in the  सरकारी , और आखिरकार प्रकाशित  as part of a code .
In many countries , statutes are organized in topical arrangements ( or `` codified '' ) within publications called codes , such as the United States  कोड  .
In many nations statutory law is distinguished from and subordinate to  संवैधानिक  law .
The external iliac arteries are two  प्रमुख धमनियों जिससे bifurcate बंद the आम  iliac arteries anterior to the sacroiliac joint of the pelvis .
They proceed anterior and inferior along the  medial  border of the psoas major muscles .
They exit the pelvic girdle posterior and inferior to the inguinal ligament about one third laterally from the insertion point of the inguinal ligament on the pubic tubercle at  which point they are referred to as the femoral  arteries .
The  बाह्य iliac धमनी is  usually the artery used to attach the renal artery to the recipient of a kidney transplant .
Steam is a digital  वितरण  , digital rights management , multiplayer and communications platform developed by Valve Corporation .
It is used to distribute games and related media online , from small independent developers to larger  तन्त्र घरों ;  in October 2012 , Valve expanded the service to include non-gaming software .
Steam provides the user with installation and automatic management of software across multiple computers , community features such as friends  सूचियाँ और समूह , बादल  saving , and in-game voice and chat functionality .
The software  provides a freely उपलब्धियाँ अनुप्रयोग प्रोग्रामिंग इंटरफ़ेस , steamworks , कि डेवलपर can लो लाभ of to integrate अनेक of भाप 's कृत्यों भीतर उनके तन्त्र उत्पाद , सहित नक़ल सुरक्षा , नेटवर्किंग और matchmaking , in-game उपलब्धियाँ और micro-transactions , और support लिये user-created सामग्री through भाप कार्यशाला .
Though initially developed for use on Microsoft Windows , the client has expanded to include OS X and Linux versions , and clients with  सीमित कार्यक्षमता on the प्लेस्टेशन  3 console and for both iOS and Android mobile devices .
In addition to being a central hub for gaming software ,  वाल्व रै निर्मित a संस्करण  of Steam with altered functionality to be used in schools for educational software , including a modified version of Portal 2 for teaching science and critical thinking lessons .
, there are nearly 2000 games available through Steam , and 54 million active user  खाते  .
As of January 2013 , Steam has seen over 6.6 million  संयुक्त  players .
भाप रै an अनुमानित  50–70 % share of the digital distribution market for video games .
The Steam logo is a stylised left-side  fly-crank और लाठी इससे the  Walschaerts valve gear of a steam locomotive .
Jerry  लुईस ( born कूच 16 , 1926  ) is an American comedian , actor , singer , film producer , screenwriter and film director .
He  is ज्ञात  for his slapstick humor in film , television , stage and radio .
He was originally paired up with Dean Martin in 1946 , forming the famed  कॉमेडी टोली of मार्टिन और लुईस  .
In addition to the duo 's popular nightclub work , they starred in a  कामयाब  series of comedy films for Paramount Pictures .
Lewis is also known for his charity fund-raising telethons and position as national chairman  लिये the muscular dystrophy  Association ( MDA ) .
Lewis has won several awards for lifetime achievements from The American Comedy Awards , Los Angeles Film Critics Association , and  वेनिस फिल्मी पर्व , और he रै दो सितारों on the  Hollywood Walk of Fame .
In 2005 , he received the Governors Award of the Academy of Television Arts & Sciences Board of Governors , which is  the उच्चतम एमी पुरस्कार प्रस्तुत  .
On February 22 , 2009 ,  the अकादमी of गति चित्र  Arts and Sciences awarded Lewis the Jean Hersholt Humanitarian Award .
The Rhine ( ; ; ) is a European river that runs from the Swiss  कैण्टन of grisons  in the southeastern Swiss Alps through Germany and eventually flows into the North Sea coast in the Netherlands and is the twelfth longest river in Europe , at about , with an average discharge of more than .
The Rhine and the Danube formed most of the northern inland frontier of the Roman Empire and , since those days , the Rhine has been a vital and  navigable जलमार्ग carrying  trade and goods deep inland .
It has also served as a defensive feature and has been the basis for regional and international  सीमायें  .
The many castles and prehistoric fortifications along the Rhine testify to its  महत्व  as a waterway .
River traffic  could be रोका  at these locations , usually for the purpose of collecting tolls , by the state that controlled that portion of the river .
Sri (  सिंहली  )
Sri ( Devanagari : श्री , IAST ; Śrī ) , also transliterated as Sree or Shri or Shree is a word of Sanskrit origin , used in the Indian subcontinent as polite form of address equivalent to the English `` Mr. '' in written and spoken language , or as a title of veneration  लिये deities ( प्रायः  translated as `` Holy '' ) .
Design of complex structures like the International Space  स्टेशन  needs in-depth understanding of Structural Analysis .
Civil  अभियान्त्रिकी is a पेशेवर अभियान्त्रिकी  discipline that deals with the design , construction , and maintenance of the physical and naturally built environment , including works like roads , bridges , canals , dams , and buildings .
Civil engineering is the oldest engineering discipline after military engineering , and  it थी पारिभाषित to फर्क  non-military engineering from military engineering .
It is traditionally broken into several sub-disciplines including environmental engineering , geotechnical engineering , geophysics , geodesy , control engineering , structural  अभियान्त्रिकी , biomechanics , nanotechnology , परिवहन अभियान्त्रिकी  , earth science , atmospheric sciences , forensic engineering , municipal or urban engineering , water resources engineering , materials engineering , coastal engineering , surveying , and construction engineering .
Civil engineering takes place on all levels :  in  the public sector from municipal through to national governments , and in the private sector from individual homeowners through to international companies .
Katherine Dunham  in तीव्र  Revue
कैथरीन dunham  in Studio
Katherine Dunham in  तीव्र पुनर्विलोकन तीव्र  Review , Martin Beck Theatre
Katherine Dunham  wearing नृत्य  costume
कैथरीन dunham in cumbia
Katherine Dunham (  जून 22 , 1909 – may 21 , 2006  ) was an American dancer , choreographer , author , educator , and social activist .
dunham था एक of the सबसे कामयाब  dance careers in American and European theater of the 20th century , and directed her own dance company for many years .
She has been called  the `` matriarch  and queen mother of black dance '' .
During her heyday in the 1940s and 1950s ,  dunham थी प्रसिद्ध throughout यूरोपीय और लैटिन अमेरिका  and was widely popular in the United States , where the Washington Post called her `` dancer Katherine the Great '' .
For almost thirty years she maintained the  कैथरीन dunham नृत्य कम्पनी , the तभी self-supported अमरीकी  black dance troupe at that time , and over her long career she choreographed more than ninety individual dances .
Dunham was an innovator in African-American modern dance as well as a leader in the field of dance anthropology , or  ethnochoreology  .
Sphagnum  is a genus of between 1510 और 3500  species of mosses , commonly called peat moss due to its prevalence in wet habitats where it contributes to the formation of peat bogs and mires .
Sphagnum  accumulations can स्टोर जल , चूंकि दोनो जीना और  dead plants can hold large quantities of water inside their cells ; plants may hold from 16-26 times as much water as their dry weight depending on the species .
the खाली  cells help retain water in drier conditions .
Hence , as sphagnum moss grows , it can slowly spread into drier conditions ,  forming larger peatlands  , both raised bogs and blanket bogs .
These peat accumulations then provide habitat for a  चौड़ी सरणी of peatland पौधे , सहित sedges और  ericaceous shrubs , as well as orchids and carnivorous plants .
Sphagnum and the peat formed from  it do नहीं क्षय readily क्युकी  of the phenolic compounds embedded in the moss 's cell walls .
In addition , bogs , like all wetlands , develop anaerobic soil conditions , which produces slower anaerobic decay rather than aerobic  सूक्ष्मजैविक  action .
Peat moss can also acidify its surroundings by taking  up cations , ऐसे as कैल्सियम  and magnesium , and releasing hydrogen ions .
Under the right  शर्तें  , peat can accumulate to a depth of many meters .
Different species of Sphagnum have different tolerance limits for flooding and pH ,  so कोई एक peatland may have a  number of different Sphagnum species .
Individual peat moss plants consist of a main stem , with tightly arranged clusters  of शाखा fascicles प्रायः  consisting of two or three spreading branches and two to four hanging branches .
The top  of the संयंत्र  , or capitulum , has compact clusters of young branches .
Along the stem are scattered leaves of various shapes , named stem  पत्ते ; the आकार varies according  to species .
The leaves consist of two kinds of cells ; small ,  ग्रीन , जीना कोशिकाएं  ( chlorophyllose cells ) , and large , clear , structural , dead cells ( hyaline cells ) .
The latter have the large  water-holding  capacity .
The earliest version of  the संजाल  Card , issued manually rather than through an APTIS machine .
The   first APTIS version of the Network Card .
This was used from the start of the APTIS era in 1986/1987 until well into the 1990s , as stocks had to be used up despite the  परिचय of the new-look orange-banded  version in 1991 .
the परिचय of the weekday न्यूनतम  fare condition in 2002 resulted in a minor change : the red `` R '' shows that this is the `` Revised '' version of the railcard .
This version is  स्टिल  in use as of 2007 .
The Network Railcard is a discount card introduced in 1986 by  अंग्रेजों  Rail , upon the creation of their Network SouthEast area around London , England .
The card is intended to  प्रोत्साहित अवकाश सफर by रेल by  offering discounts for adults and accompanying children on a wide range of off-peak fares .
The range of discounts available , and the price of the card , have varied since that time , but the card has always been valid for a year   's unlimited use .
It can be purchased by any person aged 16 or over from any staffed National Rail station   or Rail Appointed Travel Agent , by completing an application form - no photographic identification or other documentation is needed to buy or use the card .
It is one of a number of concessionary  किराया योजनाएं उपलब्धियाँ  on the British railway system .
The United Nations ( UN ;  French  : Organisation des Nations Unies , ONU ) is the world 's largest , foremost , and most prominent international organization .
The stated aims of the United Nations  include promoting  and facilitating cooperation in international law , international security , economic development , social progress , human rights , civil rights , civil liberties , political freedoms , democracy , and the achievement of lasting world peace .
The UN was  संस्थापित in 1945 बाद संसार  War II to replace the League of Nations , to stop wars between countries , and to provide a platform for dialogue .
It contains multiple subsidiary  संगठन to carry  out its missions .
At its founding , the UN had 51 member states ; as  of  2011 , there are 193 .
From its offices  around the संसार , the un  and its specialized agencies decide on substantive and administrative issues in regular meetings held throughout the year .
The organization has six principal organs : the General Assembly ( the main deliberative assembly ) ; the Security Council ( for deciding certain resolutions for peace and security ) ; the Economic and Social Council ( for assisting in promoting international economic and social cooperation and development ) ; the Secretariat ( for providing studies , information , and facilities needed by the UN )  ;  the International Court of Justice ( the primary judicial organ ) ; and the United Nations Trusteeship Council ( which is currently inactive ) .
Other prominent UN System agencies include  the संसार स्वास्थ्य  Organization ( WHO ) , the World Food Programme ( WFP ) and United Nations Children 's Fund ( UNICEF ) .
The UN 's most prominent position is that of the  दफ्तर  of Secretary-General which has been held by Ban Ki-moon of South Korea since 2007 .
The United Nations Headquarters resides  in  international territory in New York City , with further main offices at Geneva , Nairobi , and Vienna .
The organization is financed from assessed and voluntary contributions from its member states , and has six official languages : Arabic ,  चाइनीज  , English , French , Russian , and Spanish .
South Beach , also nicknamed SoBe , is a neighborhood in the city of Miami Beach , Florida , United States , located due east of Miami  नगर उचित between biscayne खाड़ी और the  Atlantic Ocean .
The area  encompasses सब of the अवरोध  islands of Miami Beach south of Indian Creek .
This area was the first section of Miami Beach to be developed , starting in the 1910s , thanks to the development efforts of Carl G. Fisher , the Lummus Brothers , and John S. Collins , the latter whose construction of the Collins Bridge provided the first vital land link between  मेनलैंड मियामी  and the beaches .
The area has gone through numerous artificial and natural changes over the years , including a booming regional economy , increased  पर्यटन , और the 1926 hurricane ,  which destroyed much of the area .
As of 2010 , about 39,186 residents live in South  बीच  .
The  संयुक्त राज्य अध्यक्षीय  election of 1960 was the 44th quadrennial presidential election , held on Tuesday , November 8 , 1960 .
The Republican Party  मनोनीत लाज़िम vice-president रिचर्ड  Nixon , while the Democratic Party nominated John F. Kennedy , Senator from Massachusetts .
The incumbent President , Republican Dwight D. Eisenhower , was not eligible for  re-election बाद सेवारत the  maximum two terms allowed by the Twenty-second Amendment .
Kennedy was elected with a lead of 112,827 votes , or  0.17  % of the popular vote , giving him a victory of 303 to 219 in the Electoral College , the closest since 1916 .
This was the first election in which all fifty of the current  संयुक्त राज्य participated  .
a  number of factors explain why the election was so close .
कैनेडी gained चूंकि वहीँ  was an economic recession which hurt the incumbent Republican , and he had the advantage of 17 million more registered Democrats than Republicans .
Furthermore ,  the नई मत  that Kennedy gained among Catholics almost neutralized the new votes Nixon gained among Protestants .
Kennedy 's campaigning skills  decisively  outmatched Nixon 's .
In the end , Nixon 's  जोर  on his experience carried little weight , and he wasted energy by campaigning in all 50 states instead of concentrating on the swing states .
Kennedy used his large , well-funded campaign   organization to win the nomination , secure endorsements , and , with the aid of the last of the big-city bosses , to get out the vote in the big cities .
He relied on running mate Lyndon B.  जॉनसन to थाम  the South and used television effectively .
This election is notable as being the first time in U.S. history that two sitting U.S . Senators ( Kennedy and Johnson ) were elected as president and vice-president , a phenomenon  कि रै महरूम दोहराया एकबार  , by Barack Obama and Joe Biden in 2008 ( in both cases , the president was the younger , more junior senator ) .
A poster for a c. 1884 American production of Macbeth ,  अभिनीत थामस  W. Keene .
Depicted , counter clockwise from top-left , are : Macbeth and Banquo meet the  witches ; बस बाद  the murder of Duncan ; Banquo 's ghost ; Macbeth duels Macduff ; and Macbeth .
Macbeth is a play  लिखा by  William Shakespeare .
It is considered one of his darkest  और सबसे शक्तिशाली  tragedies .
Set in Scotland , the play dramatizes the corroding psychological and  राजनैतिक प्रभाव उत्पादित जब  its protagonist , the Scottish lord Macbeth , chooses evil as the way to fulfill his ambition for power .
He  commits regicide  to become king and then furthers his moral descent with a reign of murderous terror to stay in power , eventually plunging the country into civil war .
In  the समाप्त , he loses सबकुछ  that gives meaning and purpose to his life before losing his life itself .
The play is believed to have been written between 1603 and 1607 , and is most commonly  दिनाँक 1606  .
The earliest account of a performance of what was   probably Shakespeare 's play is April 1611 , when Simon Forman recorded seeing such a play at the Globe Theatre .
it थी पहला प्रकाशित  in the Folio of 1623 , possibly from a prompt book .
It was most likely written during the reign of James I , who had been  जेम्स vi of स्कॉटलैंड पहले he  succeeded to the English throne in 1603 .
James was a patron  of shakespeare’s एक्टिंग कम्पनी , और of सब the  plays Shakespeare wrote during James’s reign , Macbeth most clearly reflects the playwright’s relationship with the sovereign .
Macbeth is Shakespeare’s shortest tragedy , and tells the story of a brave Scottish general named Macbeth  जो receives  a prophecy from a trio of witches that one day he will become King of Scotland .
Consumed by ambition and spurred to action by his wife ,  मैकबेथ हत्याएं  King Duncan and takes the throne for himself .
His reign is racked with guilt and paranoia , and he soon  becomes a  tyrannical ruler as he is forced to commit more and more murders to protect himself from enmity and suspicion .
The bloodbath swiftly takes Macbeth and Lady Macbeth  into realms of  arrogance , madness , and death .
Shakespeare 's source for the tragedy is the account of King Macbeth of Scotland , Macduff , and Duncan in Holinshed 's Chronicles ( 1587 ) , a history of England , Scotland and Ireland  परिचित to शेक्सपियर और उसके contemporaries , हालांकि  the events in the play differ extensively from the history of the real Macbeth .
In the backstage world of theatre , some believe that the play is cursed ,  और होगा नहीं जिक्र इसके शीर्षक  aloud , referring to it instead as `` the Scottish play `` .
Over the course of many centuries , the play has attracted some of the most renowned  अभिनेताओं to the भूमिकाएँ of मैकबेथ  and Lady Macbeth .
It  रै महरूम  adapted to film , television , opera , novels , comic books , and other media .
The Milton Hershey School is a private philanthropic ( pre-K  through 12 ) बोर्डिंग स्कूल in hershey  , Pennsylvania .
originally नामित the hershey औद्योगिक स्कूल , the संस्था थी संस्थापित और वित्तपोषित by चॉकलेट उद्योगपति मिल्टन snavely hershey और उसके बीवी , कैथरीन स्वीनी  Hershey .
The school was  originally  established for impoverished , healthy , Caucasian , male orphans , while today it serves students of various backgrounds .
The Milton Hershey School Trust , which funds the  स्कूल , owns controlling ब्याज in the hershey कम्पनी और owns the  Hershey Entertainment and Resorts Company ( HERCO ) which oversees many of the area hotels along with a theme park called Hersheypark .
With over  छह अरब डॉलर in एसेट , the  Milton Hershey School is one of the wealthiest schools in the world .
The school is overseen by a  फलक of प्रबंधक  .
The school currently serves 1,818 students ,  और योजनाएँ  to grow to 2,100 students by 2013 .
A member of CORE : Coalition for Residential Education , it is the largest residential education  कार्यक्रम in the us  .
Epub may  refer  to:
epub ,  a free and open e-book standard
Electronic article , articles in scholarly journals or magazines that can be accessed via  इलेक्ट्रॉनिक हस्तांतरण
The Controlled Substances Act ( CSA ) was enacted into  विधि  by the Congress of the United States as Title II of the Comprehensive Drug Abuse Prevention and Control Act of 1970 .
The CSA is the federal U.S. drug policy  अंतर्गत जिससे the  manufacture , importation , possession , use and distribution of certain substances is regulated .
The Act also served  as the नेशनल implementing विधान  for the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs .
The legislation created five Schedules ( classifications ) , with  varying योग्यता  for a substance to be included in each .
Two federal agencies , the Drug Enforcement Administration and the Food and Drug Administration , determine which substances are added to or removed from the various schedules , though the statute passed by Congress  निर्मित the आरंभिक लिस्टिंग , और कॉंग्रेस रै sometimes अनुसूचित अन्य substances through  legislation such as the Hillory J. Farias and Samantha Reid Date-Rape Prevention Act of 2000 , which placed gamma hydroxybutyrate in Schedule I . Classification decisions are required to be made on criteria including potential for abuse ( an undefined term ) , currently accepted medical use in treatment in the United States , and international treaties .
Second-language acquisition or second-language  सीखना is the प्रक्रम by जिससे  people learn a second language .
Second-language acquisition ( often abbreviated to SLA ) also refers to the scientific discipline devoted to  अध्ययन  that process .
दूसरी भाषा refers to कोई भाषा सीखे in  addition to a person 's first language ; although the concept is named second-language acquisition , it can also incorporate the learning of third , fourth , or subsequent languages .
second-language अधिग्रहण  refers to what learners do ; it does not refer to practices in language teaching .
The academic discipline of second-language acquisition is a subdiscipline of applied  भाषाविज्ञान  .
It is broad-based and  अपेक्षाकृत  new .
As well as the various branches of linguistics , second-language acquisition is also closely  सम्बन्धित to मनोविज्ञान , संज्ञानात्मक मनोविज्ञान  , and education .
To separate  the अकादमिक अनुशासन इससे the सीखना प्रक्रम  itself , the terms second-language acquisition research , second-language studies , and second-language acquisition studies are also used .
SLA research began as an interdisciplinary field , and because of this it is difficult  to पहचानो a precise starting  date .
However , it does appear to have developed a great deal since  the mid-1960s  .
The term acquisition was originally used to emphasize the subconscious nature of the learning  प्रक्रम , लकिन in हाल  years learning and acquisition have become largely synonymous .
Second-language acquisition can incorporate heritage language learning , but it does not usually  चरितार्थ  bilingualism .
Most SLA researchers see  bilingualism as होने the समाप्त परिणाम of सीखना a भाषा , नहीं the प्रक्रम  itself , and see the term as referring to native-like fluency .
Writers in fields such as education  और मनोविज्ञान  , however , often use bilingualism loosely to refer to all forms of multilingualism .
Second-language acquisition is also not to be  contrasted साथ the अधिग्रहण of a विदेशी  language ; rather , the learning of second languages and the learning of foreign languages involve the same fundamental processes in different situations..
There has been much debate about exactly how language is  सीखे , और  many issues are still unresolved .
वहीँ हैं  many theories of second-language acquisition , but none are accepted as a complete explanation by all SLA researchers .
Due to the interdisciplinary nature of the  फ़ील्ड of second-language  acquisition , this is not expected to happen in the foreseeable future .
फोर्ब्स सूची of अरबपतियों is an सालाना  ranking of the world 's wealthiest people , compiled and published by Forbes , an American national business magazine .
The total net worth  of प्रत्येक व्यक्तिगत on the  list is estimated , in United States dollars , based on their assets and accounting for debt .
The list only represents each person 's valuation on a single day , due to daily fluctuations among exchange rates and stock  valuations  .
The United States Secret Service is a U.S. federal law enforcement agency that is part of the United States Department   of Homeland Security .
The sworn members are divided among the Special Agents and the Uniformed  प्रभाग  .
जबतक  March 1 , 2003 , the Service was part of the United States Department of the Treasury .
the  U.S. Secret Service has two distinct areas of responsibility:
Financial Crimes , covering missions such as prevention and investigation of  counterfeiting of u.S. करेंसी और u.S. राजकोष  securities , and investigation of major fraud .
Protection , which entails ensuring the safety of current and former national leaders and their families , such as the President , past presidents , vice presidents , presidential candidates , visiting heads of state , and foreign embassies ( per an agreement with the U.S. State Department 's Bureau of Diplomatic Security ( DS ) Office  of विदेशी मिशन ( ofm  ) , etc . )
The Secret Service 's initial responsibility was to investigate counterfeiting of U.S. currency , which was  अनियंत्रित following the  U.S. Civil War .
The agency then evolved into  the  United States ' first domestic intelligence and counterintelligence agency .
Many of the agency 's missions were later taken over by subsequent agencies such as the Federal Bureau of Investigation ( FBI ) , Bureau of Alcohol , Tobacco , Firearms and  विस्फोटक ( atf ) , आव्रजन और कस्टम प्रवर्तन ( बर्फ ) , और आतंरिक आय सेवा  ( IRS ) .
`` Me and Bobby McGee  '' is a सोंग लिखा by क्रिस kristofferson  and Fred Foster , originally performed by Roger Miller .
Others performed the song later , including Kristofferson himself , and Janis Joplin who  topped the  U.S. singles chart with the song in 1971 after her death , making the song the second posthumous number-one single in U.S. chart history after `` ( Sittin ' On ) The Dock of the Bay `` by Otis Redding .
Franklin Delano Roosevelt ( or ; January 30 , 1882 – April 12 , 1945 ) , also known by his  आद्याक्षर , fdr , थी the 32nd अध्यक्ष  of the United States ( 1933–1945 ) and a central figure in world events during the mid-20th century , leading the United States during a time of worldwide economic depression and total war .
A dominant leader of the Democratic Party and the only American president elected to  अधिक than दो शर्तें , he निर्मित a नई सौदे गठबन्धन कि realigned अमरीकी  politics after 1932 , as his domestic policies defined American liberalism for the middle third of the 20th century .
With the bouncy popular song `` Happy  दिनों हैं यहाँ again `` as उसके अभियान थीम  , FDR defeated incumbent Republican Herbert Hoover in November 1932 , at the depth of the Great Depression .
Energized by his personal victory over   polio , FDR 's unfailing optimism and activism contributed to a renewal of the national spirit .
He worked closely with British Prime Minister Winston Churchill and Soviet  सामान्य सचिव जोसेफ स्टालिन  in leading the Allies against Germany and Japan in World War II , and restoring prosperity to the nation 's economy .
In his first hundred days in office , which began March 4 , 1933 , Roosevelt spearheaded major  विधान और जारी a profusion of कार्यपालिका आदेश कि instituted  the New Deal —a variety of programs designed to produce relief ( government jobs for the unemployed ) , recovery ( economic growth ) , and reform ( through regulation of Wall Street , banks and transportation ) .
The  अर्थव्यवस्था improved rapidly इससे 1933 to 1937 , लकिन तब relapsed into a गहन मंदी .
The bipartisan Conservative Coalition that formed in 1937 prevented his  पैकिंग the परम् अदालत  or passing any considerable legislation ; it abolished many of the relief programs when unemployment diminished during World War II .
Most of the regulations on business were ended about 1975–85 , except for the regulation of Wall Street by  the प्रतिभूति और एक्सचेंज आयोग  , which still exists .
Along with several smaller programs , major surviving programs include the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation  ,  which was created in 1933 , and Social Security , which Congress passed in 1935 .
As World War II loomed after 1938 , with the Japanese invasion of China and  the आक्रामकता of नाजी  Germany , FDR gave strong diplomatic and financial support to China and Great Britain , while remaining officially neutral .
His goal was to make America the `` Arsenal of Democracy ``  जिससे  would supply munitions to the Allies .
In March 1941 , Roosevelt , with Congressional approval , provided Lend-Lease aid to the countries  लड़  against Nazi Germany with Britain .
With very strong national support , he made war on Japan and Germany after the  जापानी आक्रमण on पर्ल हार्बर on दिसम्बर 7 ,  1941 , calling it a `` date which will live in infamy `` .
He supervised the mobilization of the U.S.  अर्थव्यवस्था  to support the Allied war effort .
As an active military leader , Roosevelt  implemented an overall युद्ध रणनीति on दो fronts कि ended  in the defeat of the Axis Powers and the development of the world 's first atom bomb .
In 1942 Roosevelt ordered the internment of 100,000 Japanese American  नागरिकों  .
Unemployment dropped to 2 % , relief  कार्यक्रम largely ended , और the औद्योगिक  economy grew rapidly to new heights as millions of people moved to new jobs in war centers , and 16 million men and 300,000 women were drafted or volunteered for military service .
Roosevelt dominated the American political scene not only during the twelve  सालो of उसके प्रेसिडेंसी  , but also for decades afterward .
He orchestrated the realignment of voters  कि  created the Fifth Party System .
FDR 's New  सौदे गठबन्धन संयुक्त  labor unions , big city machines , white ethnics , African Americans and rural white Southerners .
He also influenced  the बाद सृष्टि  of the United Nations and Bretton Woods .
Roosevelt is consistently rated by scholars  as  one of the top three U.S. Presidents , along with Abraham Lincoln and George Washington .
A liberal  डेमोक्रेट , रूज़वेल्ट  defined his ideological position as `` a little left of center . ''
Mara  salvatrucha ( commonly  abbreviated as MS , Mara , and MS-13 ) is a transnational criminal gang that originated in Los Angeles and has spread to other parts of the United States , Canada , Mexico , and Central America .
The majority of the gang is ethnically composed of  सेंट्रल अमेरिकी और क्रियाशील  in urban and suburban areas .
In the U.S. , the MS-13 has an especially heavy presence in Los Angeles County and the San Francisco Bay Area in Northern California ; the Washington ,  d.C. महानगर क्षेत्रों of फेयरफैक्स  County , Virginia , Montgomery County , Maryland , and Prince George 's County , Maryland ; Long Island , New York ; the Boston , Massachusetts area ; Charlotte , North Carolina ; and Houston , Texas .
There is also a presence of  ms-13 in  Toronto , Ontario , Canada .
Members of MS  फर्क  themselves by tattoos covering the body and also often the face , as well as the use of their own sign language .
They are notorious for their use of violence and a subcultural  moral  code that predominantly consists of merciless revenge and cruel retributions .
This cruelty of the  विशिष्ट सदस्यों  of the `` Maras '' or `` Mareros '' earned them a path to be recruited by the Sinaloa Cartel battling against Los Zetas in an ongoing drug war south of the United States border .
Their  wide-ranging  activities have drawn the attention of the FBI and Immigration and Customs Enforcement , who have initiated wide-scale raids against known and suspected gang members – netting hundreds of arrests across the country .
Bones is an American  अपराधों comedy-drama  television series that premiered on the Fox network in the United States on September 13 , 2005 .
The show is based on  forensic मानवशास्त्र  and forensic archaeology , with each episode focusing on an FBI case file concerning the mystery behind human remains brought by FBI Special Agent Seeley Booth ( David Boreanaz ) to the forensic anthropologist Dr. Temperance `` Bones '' Brennan ( Emily Deschanel ) .
The rest of the main cast includes Michaela Conlin , T.  J. thyne , eric  Millegan , Tamara Taylor , Jonathan Adams , and John Francis Daley .
Created by Hart Hanson , the  श्रेणी  is very loosely based on the life and writings of novelist and forensic anthropologist Kathy Reichs , who also produces the show .
Its title character , Temperance Brennan , is named  बाद the समर्थक of  Reichs ' crime novel series .
Conversely , Dr. Brennan writes successful mystery novels based around a fictional ( in the Bones universe ) forensic anthropologist named  कैथी reichs  .
Bones is a joint production by Josephson  entertainment , दूर फ़ील्ड  Productions and 20th Century Fox Television .
The series has completed airing its eighth season and  रै  been renewed for a ninth season .
Super Bowl XXV was an American football game between the American Football Conference ( AFC ) champion Buffalo Bills and the National Football Conference ( NFC ) champion New York Giants to decide the National   Football League ( NFL ) champion for the 1990 season .
The Giants defeated  the  Bills by the score of 20–19 , winning their second ever Super Bowl .
It is the only Super Bowl  decided  by one point .
The game was held at Tampa Stadium in Tampa , Florida , on January 27 ,  1991 , दौरान  the height of the Gulf War .
It was thus played under  much  patriotic fervor .
The proceedings included a rousing rendition of `` The  star-spangled ध्वज  `` by Whitney Houston during the pregame ceremonies .
The Bills and their explosive no-huddle offense were making their first Super Bowl appearance after finishing the regular season with a 13-3 record ,  और अग्रणी  the league in total points scored with 428 .
In advancing to their second Super Bowl , the Giants also posted a 13-3 regular season record , but with a ball-control offense and a defense that allowed a league  कम 211 अंक  .
the  game is best remembered for Bills placekicker Scott Norwood 's last-second field goal attempt which went wide right of the uprights , leading to a Giants victory , and starting a four-game losing streak in the Super Bowl for the Bills .
The  दिग्गज नियत  a Super Bowl record holding possession of the ball for 40 minutes and 33 seconds .
New York also overcame a 12-3 second-quarter deficit , and made a 75-yard touchdown drive  कि खपत a सुपर कटोरी रिकार्ड 9:29 बंद the क्लॉक  .
Giants  कार्यशील वापस ottis एंडरसन , जो  carried the ball 21 times for 102 yards and one touchdown , was named Super Bowl MVP .
He was the first awardee to receive the newly named `` Pete Rozelle  ट्रॉफी  '' ( named for the former commissioner ) .
Anderson  भी अंकित  one reception for seven yards .
मैल्कम  X ( ; May 19 , 1925February 21 , 1965 ) , born Malcolm Little and also known as El-Hajj Malik El-Shabazz ( ) , was an African-American Muslim minister and human rights activist .
To his  admirers , he थी a  courageous advocate for the rights of blacks , a man who indicted white America in the harshest terms for its crimes against black Americans .
Detractors accused  उसे of  preaching racism , black supremacy , and violence .
He has been called one of the greatest and most influential African  अमेरिकी in इतिहास  .
Malcolm X 's father died—killed by white supremacists , it was rumored—when he was young , and at least one of his uncles  थी lynched  .
When he was 13 , his mother was placed in a mental hospital ,  और he थी लगाई in a श्रेणी of फोस्टर घरों  .
In 1946 ,  at आयु 20 ,  he went to prison for breaking and entering .
In prison , Malcolm X became a member of the Nation of Islam ; after his parole in 1952 , he quickly rose to become  एक of इसके नेताओ  .
For a dozen years , Malcolm X was the public face of the controversial group , but disillusionment with Nation of Islam head Elijah Muhammad led him to  छोड़ the स्वदेश in कूच 1964  .
After a period of travel in Africa and the Middle East , he  लौटे to the  United States , where he founded Muslim Mosque , Inc. and the Organization of Afro-American Unity .
In February 1965 , less than a year after leaving the Nation of Islam , he was  assassinated by तीन सदस्यों of  the group .
Malcolm X 's  expressed मान्यताओं  changed substantially over time .
As a spokesman for the Nation of Islam he taught black supremacy and advocated separation of black and white Americans —in contrast to the civil rights movement  's  emphasis on integration .
After breaking with the Nation of Islam in 1964—saying of his association with it , `` I did many  बाते as a [  Black ] Muslim that I 'm sorry for now .
I was a zombie then ... pointed in a certain direction and told to march '' —and becoming a Sunni Muslim , he disavowed racism and expressed willingness to work with civil rights leaders , he continued  to emphasize  Pan-Africanism , black self-determination , and self-defense .
The third season of 90210 , an American  टेलीविज़न श्रेणी  , premiered on Monday September 13 , 2010 .
The CW officially renewed the  दिखाएँ लिये  a third season on February 16 , 2010 .
With the  खुलासा of the संजाल पतन 2010 अनुसूची , वे  announced their decision to move 90210 to Monday nights at 8:00 pm , as a lead-in to Gossip Girl .
It premiered on  सितंबर 13  , 2010 and was met with generally positive reviews from critics .
The season picks up at the end of  गर्मियाँ और focuses on the विद्यार्थी  senior year of high school .
It follows Adrianna 's rise to fame , a new relationship between Silver and Navid and a confused Teddy who decides to reveal to his  परिवार और मित्रों he  is gay .
It also   deals with the aftermath of Naomi Clark 's assault .
Regular cast members for the season included Shenae  ग्रिम्स  , Tristan Wilds , AnnaLynne McCord , Ryan Eggold , Jessica Stroup , Michael Steger , Jessica Lowndes , Matt Lanter , Gillian Zinser , Trevor Donovan and Lori Loughlin .
Rebecca Sinclair continued her  भूमिका  as executive producer for the season .
The  ऋतु premiered to 1.96 लाख  viewers and a 0.9 rating in the adults 18–49 demographic .
Christmas-themed episode `` Holiday Madness  '' , hit ऋतु  highs in all key demos with 2.1 in The CW 's target demo of women 18–34 , a 1.4 in adults 18–34 and a 1.1 in adults 18–49 .
It was also  the सबसे देखी एपीसोड  in over a year with 2.2 million viewers tuning in .
The season finale aired  on may  16 , 2011 .
The season averaged 1.75  लाख सजीव  viewers and a 0.9 adults 18–49 rating .
It was released on DVD in the United States on  अगस्त 30  , 2011 .
Elizabeth II ( Elizabeth Alexandra Mary ; born 21 April 1926 ) is the constitutional monarch of 16 sovereign states , known as the  राष्ट्रमंडल realms , और उनके territories और  dependencies , and head of the 54-member Commonwealth of Nations .
She is Supreme Governor of the Church of England and , in some of her realms , carries the title of Defender of the Faith  as भाग of उसके पूरा शीर्षक  .
On her accession on 6 February 1952 , Elizabeth became Head of the Commonwealth and queen regnant of seven independent Commonwealth countries : the United Kingdom , Canada ,  ऑस्ट्रेलिया , नई  Zealand , South Africa , Pakistan and Ceylon .
From 1956   to 1992 , the number of her realms varied as territories gained independence and some realms became republics .
At present , in addition to the first four aforementioned countries , Elizabeth is Queen of Jamaica , Barbados , the Bahamas , Grenada , Papua New Guinea , the Solomon  आइलैंड्स , तुवालू , संत लूसिया , संत  Vincent and the Grenadines , Belize , Antigua and Barbuda and Saint Kitts and Nevis .
Her reign of years is currently the second longest for a British monarch ;  तभी महारानी विक्टोरिया रै reigned  longer at over 63 years .
Elizabeth was born in London and  शिक्षित  privately at home .
Her father  acceded  to the throne as George VI in 1936 on the abdication of his brother Edward VIII , from which time she was the heir presumptive .
She began to undertake public duties during the Second World War , in  जिससे  she served in the Auxiliary Territorial Service .
in 1947 , वो शादीशुदा प्रिंस फिलिप , ड्यूक of एडिनबर्ग , साथ जिसको वो रै चार children : चार्ल्स , ऐनी , एंड्रयू , और एडवर्ड  .
Her coronation service took place  in 1953 और  was the first to be televised .
The Queen 's many historic visits and meetings include a  राज्य विज़िट to the गणतंत्र of आयरलैंड और  reciprocal visits to and from the Pope .
The Queen has seen major constitutional  परिवर्तन in उसके realms , ऐसे as devolution in  the United Kingdom and the patriation of the Canadian constitution .
Times of personal significance have included the births and marriages of her children , the births of her grandchildren , the investiture of the Prince of Wales , and the celebration of milestones such as her Silver  , सुनहरी , और डायमंड jubilees  in 1977 , 2002 , and 2012 , respectively .
Major events in the Queen 's reign have included the Troubles in Northern Ireland , the Falklands War , wars with Iraq and the  युद्ध  in Afghanistan .
There have been times of  निजी विषाद लिये  her which include the death of her father at 56 , the assassination of Prince Philip 's uncle , Lord Mountbatten , the breakdown of her children 's marriages in 1992 ( a year deemed her annus horribilis ) , the death in 1997 of her former daughter-in-law , Diana , Princess of Wales , and the deaths of her mother and sister in 2002 .
The Queen has occasionally faced   severe press criticism of the royal family and republican sentiments , but support for the monarchy and her personal popularity remain high .
The 2010 United States  सीनेट चुनाव in फ्लोरिडा took प्लेस on नवम्बर 2 , 2010 साथ साथ अन्य चुनावों  to the United States Senate in other states as well as all elections to the United States House of Representatives and various state and local elections .
Republican  मार्को rubio , पूर्व स्पीकर of the  Florida House of Representatives , defeated independent Charlie Crist and Democrat Kendrick Meek in a three-way race .
One term Senator  mel मार्टिनेज  was elected in a very close race against Democrat Betty Castor in 2004 with 49 % of the vote .
Martinez announced on December 2 , 2008 that he would not  तलाश  re-election to the Senate , and would resign prior to the end of his term .
In August 2009 ,  राज्यपाल चार्ली crist घोषित  that he would appoint his former Chief of Staff , George LeMieux , a Republican , to the Senate seat being vacated by Martinez .
Governor  crist सरेआम  announced he was running for the seat in mid-2009 .
At  the समय he प्राप्त अनेक रिपब्लिकन  endorsements , such as the National Republican Senatorial Committee , Martinez , and the 2008 Republican presidential nominee John McCain .
His  support of the अमरीकी रिकवरी और reinvestment  Act of 2009 hurt his popularity among conservatives , and candidate Marco Rubio surged .
In April 2010 Crist announced he would  बूँद आउट of the रिपब्लिकन प्राथमिक  and run as an independent .
The National Republican Senatorial Committee withdrew its endorsement of Crist and  मांगे  a refund of its campaign funds that it provided for the Crist campaign .
Congressman Kendrick Meek was the first Democrat to  घोषित  his intention to run .
Alexander Snitker was the first member of the  libertarian  Party on the ballot for senator in Florida 's history .
Satellite view of  दोहा
Doha ( , ' or ' , literally : `` the big tree '' ) is the capital city  of the  state of Qatar .
Located on the coast of the Persian  गल्फ ,
it had a population of 998,651 in 2008 , and is also one of  the municipalities  of Qatar .
Doha is Qatar 's largest city , with over 60 % of the nation 's  जनसांख्यिकी residing in दोहा or इसके surrounding  suburbs , and is also the economic centre of the country .
Doha also serves as the seat of government of Qatar , which is  शासित by शेख़ हमद बिन  Khalifa Al Thani .
Doha is home to the Education City , an area  devoted  to research and education .
Doha was the site of  the पहला ministerial-level  meeting of the Doha Development Round of World Trade Organization negotiations .
The city of Doha held the  2006 एशियाई खेल  , which was the largest Asian Games ever held .
Doha also hosted the 2011 Pan Arab Games and most of the  खेल  at the 2011 AFC Asian Cup .
Doha  hosted the unfccc जलवायु  Negotiations ( COP 18 ) December 2012 and will host a large number of the venues for the 2022 FIFA World Cup .
The World  पेट्रोलियम परिषद आयोजित the  20th World Petroleum Conference in Doha in December 2011 .
Paranasal sinuses are a group of four paired air-filled spaces that surround the nasal cavity ( maxillary sinuses ) , above the eyes ( frontal  साइनस ) , between the आँखें ( ethmoid साइनस ) , और पीछे  the ethmoids ( sphenoid sinuses ) .
The sinuses are named for the facial  हड्डियों  in which they are located .
Lean manufacturing , lean enterprise , or lean production , often simply , `` Lean , '' is a  उत्पादन अभ्यास कि  considers the expenditure of resources for any goal other than the creation of value for the end customer to be wasteful , and thus a target for elimination .
Working from the perspective of the customer   who consumes a product or service , `` value '' is defined as any action or process that a customer would be willing to pay for .
Essentially ,  झुकना is केन्द्रित on  preserving value with less work .
Lean manufacturing is a management philosophy derived mostly from the Toyota Production System ( TPS ) ( hence the term  toyotism is भी प्रचलित ) और  identified as `` Lean '' only in the 1990s .
TPS  is प्रसिद्ध लिये इसके फ़ोकस on कटौती  of the original Toyota seven wastes to improve overall customer value , but there are varying perspectives on how this is best achieved .
The steady  विकास of टोयोटा , इससे a छोटी कम्पनी  to the world 's largest automaker , has focused attention on how it has achieved this success .
iCarly  लोगो
iCarly is an American  sitcom  that airs on Nickelodeon , which premiered on September 8 , 2007 .
Nickelodeon promoted many episodes so far such as `` iDo '' , `` iHire an Idiot '' , `` iPity the Nevel '' , `` iDate Sam & Freddie '' , etc . as  specials , despite उनके  being regular episodes .
Every episode title begins with a lower case i  जिससे represents the अंतरजाल  , as in `` iCarly '' .
The show was nominated for an Emmy award for  बकाया  Children 's Program in 2009 .
The series starring  मिरांडा cosgrove as कार्ली शे  , a 13-year-old who becomes an Internet star .
The series ended on November 23 , 2012 with the one-hour  खास  episode `` iGoodbye '' .
A total of 7  सीज़न और 109 एपीसोड  were broadcast .
The largest audience of the series was 11.2 million viewers , with the special episode ``  isaved  Your Life '' premiered in January 2010 .
When Carly ( Miranda  Cosgrove ) and her  sassy best friend Sam ( Jennette McCurdy ) act funny at a school talent show audition , tech-savvy Freddie ( Nathan Kress ) tapes it and posts it online without telling them .
After seeing the girls ' strong chemistry and banter , the online audience clamors for more and the iCarly  वेबकास्ट is  born .
While grappling with typical issues of adolescence , Carly , Sam , and Freddie find out that they have also become online celebrities as their show – which features talent  प्रतियोगिताओं , व्यंजनों , problem-solving  , and random dancing – garners international accolades .
Carly lives in Seattle , Washington with her 26-year-old brother and guardian Spencer ( Jerry Trainor ) and produces the show in a makeshift  third-floor स्टुडियो मचान in  their apartment .
Their mother has never been seen or mentioned , but their  पिता , स्टीवन शे ( दाउद chisum ) , is  a U.S. Air Force officer temporarily stationed on a submarine , and is often mentioned but is only seen in person during the series finale episode , `` iGoodbye '' .
Westlife were an Irish boy band which formed in 1998 and   disbanded in 2012 .
Originally signed by Simon Cowell and managed by Louis Walsh  , the समूह  's final line-up consisted of Nicky Byrne , Kian Egan , Mark Feehily and Shane Filan .
Brian  mcfadden थी a  member from 1998 until his departure in 2004 .
Westlife sold over 50 million records worldwide , a total that  शामिल स्टुडियो एल्बम  , singles , video releases , and compilation albums .
The group accumulated 14 number-one singles in the United Kingdom ( the  third-highest  in UK history ) , tying with Cliff Richard and ranking just behind The Beatles and Elvis Presley .
They achieved a total of 26 top ten singles  over उनके 14-year  career .
By 2010 ,  westlife थी सूचीबद्ध  in the Guinness World Records , as the UK 's top-selling album group of the 21st century .
They also won The Record of the  साल ( the तभी म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार आधारित on पब्लिक मत in the uk )  a record-breaking four times and in 2012 , the Official Charts Company listed Westlife 34th amongst the biggest-selling singles artists in British music history .
Despite their European and Asian success , Westlife never managed to break into the U.S. market , achieving only one hit single  in 2000 : `` कसम it again  `` .
In  अक्तूबर 2011  , Westlife announced their intention to split in 2012 , following their Greatest Hits Tour and the release of their Greatest Hits album .
The  boyband  's final concerts were held on 22 and 23 June 2012 at Croke Park Stadium in Dublin .
The first farewell concert , offering 85,000 tickets , sold out in a record-breaking 5 minutes and the latter screened live  in cinemas विश्वव्यापी  .
Vitamin A is a group of nutritionally unsaturated hydrocarbons , which include retinol , retinal , retinoic acid and several  provitamin a carotenoids among जिससे beta-carotene is the सबसे  important .
Vitamin A has multiple functions , it is important for growth and development , for the maintenance of  the प्रतिरक्षा प्रणाली और  good vision .
Vitamin A is needed by the retina of  the नजर in  the form of retinal , which combines with protein opsin to form rhodopsin the light-absorbing molecule , that is necessary for both low-light ( scotopic vision ) and color vision .
Vitamin A also functions in a very different role as an  irreversibly oxidized रूप of रेटिनॉल ज्ञात as  retinoic acid , which is an important hormone-like growth factor for epithelial and other cells .
In foods of animal origin , the major form of vitamin A is an ester ,  primarily retinyl  palmitate , which is converted to retinol ( chemically an alcohol ) in the small intestine .
The retinol form functions as  a भंडार रूप of the विटामिन , और can  be converted to and from its visually active aldehyde form , retinal .
The associated acid ( retinoic acid ) , a metabolite that can be irreversibly synthesized from vitamin A , has only partial vitamin A  कार्यकलाप , और करता नहीं फलन in the retina  for the visual cycle .
Retinoic acid is used for growth and cellular  differentiation  .
All forms of vitamin  a have a beta-ionone  ring to which an isoprenoid chain is attached , called a retinyl group .
Both  संरचनात्मक  features are essential for vitamin activity .
The orange pigment of carrots –  beta-carotene – can  be represented as two connected retinyl groups , which are used in the body to contribute to vitamin A levels .
alpha-carotene  and gamma-carotene also have a single retinyl group , which give them some vitamin activity .
None of the other  carotenes  have vitamin activity .
The carotenoid beta-  cryptoxanthin possesses  an ionone group and has vitamin activity in humans .
Vitamin A can be found in two  प्रिंसिपल  forms in foods :
Retinol , the form of vitamin A absorbed when eating animal food sources , is a  पीला , fat-soluble  substance .
Since the pure alcohol form is unstable , the vitamin is found in tissues  in a रूप of  retinyl ester .
It is also commercially produced and administered as esters such as retinyl  एसीटेट or palmitate  .
The carotenes alpha-carotene , beta-carotene , gamma-carotene ; and the xanthophyll beta-cryptoxanthin ( all of which contain beta-ionone rings ) , but no other  carotenoids , फलन as provitamin a in herbivores और सर्वाहारी पशु , जिससे possess the एंजाइम  ( 15-15'-dioxygenase ) which cleaves beta-carotene in the intestinal mucosa and converts it retinol .
In general , carnivores are poor converters of ionine-containing carotenoids , and pure carnivores such as cats and ferrets lack 15-15'-dioxygenase  और can  not convert any carotenoids to retinal ( resulting in none of the carotenoids being forms of vitamin A for these species ) .
Selena Marie Gomez ( born July 22 , 1992 ) is an American  सिंगर और अभिनेत्री  .
She made her debut as a  चाइल्ड अभिनेत्री in  Barney & Friends .
In 2007 , Gomez came to prominence as a  अभिनीत  cast member in the television series Wizards of Waverly Place .
She signed to Hollywood Records the  following साल , और became  the founder and lead singer of the pop band Selena Gomez & the Scene .
Their studio albums Kiss & Tell ( 2009 ) , A Year Without Rain ( 2010 ) , and When the Sun Goes Down ( 2011 ) were certified Gold by the Recording Industry Association of America ( RIAA ) and have spawned Platinum-certified singles ``  naturally `` , `` जो says `` , और `` प्रेम तुम  like a Love Song `` .
After the release of  टेलीविज़न  films and their accompanying soundtracks , Gomez made her theatrical film debut in Ramona and Beezus in 2010 and starred in Monte Carlo in 2011 .
Upon the conclusion of Wizards of Waverly Place and the hiatus of Selena Gomez & the Scene in 2012 , she focused on her film career , serving as a voice  अभिनेत्री  in Hotel Transylvania and starring in Spring Breakers the following year .
Her debut solo album is tentatively scheduled to be released in summer 2013 , and is preceded by its lead  सिंगल `` आइये & मिलेंगी it `` .
Outside of her work in the entertainment industry , Gomez is involved in philanthropic activities through   charity work and various social and environmental causes .
Tracie Monique Spencer ( born July 12 , 1976 ) is an American  r & b और पॉप singer-songwriter  , actress , and model .
Sacramento is the capital city of the U.S. state of California and the  सीट of सरकारी  of Sacramento County .
It is located at the confluence of the Sacramento River and the American River in the  उत्तरी portion of कैलिफ़ोर्निया  's expansive Central Valley .
With an estimated 2011 population of 477,891 , it is the sixth-largest  नगर in कैलिफ़ोर्निया और the  35th largest city in the United States .
Sacramento is the core   cultural and economic center of the Sacramento metropolitan area which includes seven counties with an estimated 2009 population of 2,527,123 .
Its metropolitan area is the fourth largest in California after the Greater Los Angeles Area , San Francisco Bay Area , and the San Diego metropolitan area , as well as the  25th largest  in the United States .
Sacramento was cited  by समय पत्रिका as अमेरिका  's most ethnically and racially integrated city in 2002 .
Sacramento became a city through the efforts of the Swiss immigrant John Sutter , Sr. , his son John Sutter , Jr. , and James W.  मार्शल  .
Sacramento grew quickly thanks to the protection of Sutter 's Fort  , जिससे  was established by Sutter in 1839 .
During the California Gold  फटाफट , sacramento थी a प्रमुख वितरण पाइंट , a वाणिज्यिक और agricultural बीच , और a टर्मिनस लिये वैगन रेल , stagecoaches , riverboats , the टेलीग्राफ , the टट्टू एक्स्प्रेस , और the पहला transcontinental रेलरोड .
California State University , Sacramento  , अधिक  commonly known as Sacramento State or Sac State , is the largest local university .
It is one of the twenty-three campuses of the California  राज्य विश्वविद्यालयों  system .
Drexel University  sacramento is स्तिथ in  Downtown , Sacramento .
University of the Pacific 's McGeorge  स्कूल of  Law is located in the Oak Park neighborhood .
In addition , the University of California , Davis is  स्तिथ  in nearby Davis , west of the capital .
The UC  डेविस चिकित्सा बीच , a world-renowned  research hospital , is located in the city of Sacramento .
Memorial Day is a United  राज्य संघीय  holiday which occurs every year on the final Monday of May .
Memorial Day is a day of  remembering the मेन और महिलाओं जो died जबकि  serving in the United States Armed Forces .
Formerly known as Decoration Day , it originated after the American Civil War to commemorate the  संघ और confederate सैनिको  who died in the Civil War .
By the 20th century Memorial Day had been extended to honor all Americans who have   died in all wars .
It  typically marks the  start of the summer vacation season , while Labor Day marks its end .
Many people visit  कब्रिस्तान और memorials , विशेषकर  to honor those who have died in military service .
Many volunteers place an American flag on  प्रत्येक संगीन in नेशनल  cemeteries .
By the early 20th century ,  मेमोरियल दिन थी an अवसर लिये अधिक सामान्य expressions of  memory , as people visited the graves of their deceased relatives in church cemeteries , whether they had served in the military or not .
It  भी became a long  weekend increasingly devoted to shopping , family gatherings , fireworks , trips to the beach , and national media events .
Annual Decoration Days for particular cemeteries are held on a Sunday in late spring or early summer in some rural areas of the American South , notably  in the kyu  .
In cases involving a family graveyard where remote ancestors as well as those who were deceased more recently are buried , this may take on the character of an  विस्तारित परिवार पुनर्मिलन to जिससे कुछ लोगों सफर सैंकड़ों  of miles .
People gather on the designated day and put flowers on graves and renew contacts with kinfolk and   others .
There often is a religious service and a `` dinner on the ground , '' the traditional term for a potluck meal in which people used to spread the dishes  आउट on चादरें or चौके on the ग्रास  .
It is believed that this practice began before the American Civil War and thus may reflect the real origin of  the `` मेमोरियल  day '' idea .
मेमोरियल दिन is नहीं to be उलझन साथ दिग्गजों  Day ; Memorial Day is a day of remembering the men and women who died while serving , while Veterans Day celebrates the service of all U.S. military veterans , living or dead .
Mt . Zion Church state history marker near  फिलाडेल्फिया  , Mississippi .
Freedom Summer ( also known as the Mississippi Summer Project ) was a campaign in the United States launched in June 1964 to attempt to register as many African American   voters as possible in Mississippi , which had historically excluded most blacks from voting .
The project also set up dozens of Freedom Schools , Freedom Houses , and community  centers in छोटी कस्बों throughout  Mississippi to aid the local black population .
The project was organized by the Council of Federated Organizations (  cofo ) , a गठबन्धन of the मिसिसिपी शाखाओं  of the four major civil rights organizations ( SNCC , CORE , NAACP and SCLC ) .
Most of the impetus ,  नेतृत्व , और financing  for the Summer Project came from the SNCC .
Robert Parris Moses , SNCC field secretary and co-director of COFO ,  निर्देशित the गर्मियाँ  project .
Blues is the name given to both a musical form and a music genre that originated in communities of primarily the `` Deep South `` of the United States around the  end of the 19th century  from spirituals , work songs , field hollers , shouts and chants , and rhymed simple narrative ballads .
The blues form , ubiquitous in jazz , rhythm and blues , and rock and roll is characterized by specific chord progressions , of  जिससे the twelve-bar ब्लूज़ कॉर्ड progression  is the most common .
The blue notes that , for expressive purposes are sung or played flattened or gradually bent ( minor 3rd to major 3rd ) in relation to the pitch of the major  स्केल , हैं भी an महत्वपूर्ण भाग of the ध्वनि  .
The blues genre is based on the blues form but possesses other characteristics   such as specific lyrics , bass lines , and instruments .
Blues can be subdivided into several subgenres ranging from country to urban blues that were more or less popular during  अलग अवधि  of the 20th century .
Best known are the Delta , Piedmont ,  जम्प , और  Chicago blues styles .
World War II marked the transition from acoustic to electric blues and the progressive opening  of ब्लूज़ म्यूज़िक to  a wider audience , especially white listeners .
In the 1960s and 1970s , a hybrid form  पुकारा  blues-rock evolved .
The term `` the blues '' refers to  the `` ब्लू शैतानों '' , अर्थ  melancholy and sadness ; an early use of the term in this sense is found in George Colman 's one-act farce Blue Devils ( 1798 ) .
Though the use of the phrase in African-American music may be older , it has been attested to since 1912  , जब हार्ट wand 's `` डलास ब्लूज़ `` became the पहला  copyrighted blues composition .
In lyrics the phrase is often used to describe a  उदास मनोदशा  .
A quarter dollar , commonly shortened to quarter , is a coin worth 1⁄4 of a  संयुक्त राज्य डालर  or 25 cents .
The  क्वार्टर रै महरूम  produced since 1796 .
The choice of 25¢ as a denomination , as opposed to 20¢ which  is अधिक आम in अन्य भाग of the संसार , originated  with the practice of dividing Spanish Milled Dollars into eight wedge shaped segments ( cf. `` pieces of eight `` ) .
At one time `` two  बिट्स  `` , i.e . two wedges , each wedge an eighth , thus a quarter of the Spanish real , was a common nickname for a quarter .
Day of the Dead ( ) is a Mexican holiday celebrated throughout Mexico and around the world in other   cultures .
The holiday focuses on gatherings of family and  मित्रों  to pray for and remember friends and family members who have died .
It is particularly  मनाये  in Mexico , where it is a national holiday , and all banks are closed .
The celebration takes place on November 1 and 2 , in connection with the  कैथोलिक  holidays of All Saints ' Day and All Souls ' Day .
Traditions connected with the holiday include building private altars honoring the deceased using sugar skulls , marigolds , and the favorite foods and beverages of the  रजि और visiting क़ब्रों साथ ये as उपहार  .
They also leave possessions  of  the deceased .
विद्वानों ट्रेस  the origins of the modern Mexican holiday to indigenous observances dating back hundreds of years and to an Aztec festival dedicated to the goddess Mictecacihuatl .
The holiday has spread throughout the world : In Brazil , Dia de Finados is a public  अवकाश कि अनेक brazilians celebrate  by visiting cemeteries and churches .
In Spain , there are festivals and parades , and , at the end of the  दिन , लोगों एकत्रित  at cemeteries and pray for their dead loved ones .
Similar observances occur elsewhere in Europe , and similarly   themed celebrations appear in many Asian and African cultures .
ANITA  mk  VIII .
The ANITA Mark VII and ANITA Mark VIII calculators were launched simultaneously in late 1961 as the world 's first all-  इलेक्ट्रॉनिक डेस्कटॉप  calculators .
Designed and built  by the  Bell Punch Co .
in Britain , and marketed through its Sumlock Comptometer division , they used  वैक्यूम tubes  and cold-cathode switching tubes in their logic circuits and nixie tubes for their numerical displays .
वे यहूद the पहला of a श्रेणी of डेस्कटॉप और hand-held इलेक्ट्रॉनिक calculators कि the कम्पनी थी to develop और बेचें अंतर्गत the अनीता नाम into the mid-1970s  .
George Washington ( – , 1799 ) was the first President of the United States ( 1789–1797 ) ,  the commander-in-chief of the महाद्वीपीय फौज दौरान the अमरीकी क्रांतिकारी  War , and one of the Founding Fathers of the United States .
He presided over the convention that drafted the Constitution , which  replaced the आलेख of कनफेडरेशन और स्थापित  the position of President .
Washington was elected President as the unanimous choice of the 69 electors in 1788 , and he  परोसा दो  terms in office .
He oversaw the creation of a strong ,  well-financed नेशनल  government that maintained neutrality in the wars raging in Europe , suppressed rebellion , and won acceptance among Americans of all types .
His leadership style  स्थापित अनेक फ़ॉर्म और  rituals of government that have been used since , such as using a cabinet system and delivering an inaugural address .
further , the शांतिपूर्ण परिवर्तन इससे  his presidency to the presidency of John Adams established a tradition that continues into the 21st century .
Washington was hailed as `` father  of उसके  country `` even during his lifetime .
Washington was born into the provincial gentry of Colonial Virginia ; his   wealthy planter family owned tobacco plantations and slaves .
After both his father and older brother died when he was young , Washington became personally and professionally attached to the powerful William Fairfax ,  जो प्रचारित उसके करियर  as a surveyor and soldier .
Washington quickly became a senior officer in the  औपनिवेशिक शक्तियां दौरान  the first stages of the French and Indian War .
Chosen by the Second Continental Congress in 1775 to be commander-in-chief   of the Continental Army in the American Revolution , Washington managed to force the British out of Boston in 1776 , but was defeated and almost captured later that year when he lost New York City .
After crossing the Delaware River in the dead of winter , he  पराजित the अंग्रेजों in दो लड़ाइयों  , retook New Jersey and restored momentum to the Patriot cause .
Because of his strategy ,  क्रांतिकारी  forces captured two major British armies at Saratoga in 1777 and Yorktown in 1781 .
Historians laud Washington for his  चयन  and supervision of his generals , encouragement of morale and ability to hold together the army , coordination with the state governors and state militia units , relations with Congress and attention to supplies , logistics , and training .
In battle , however , Washington was repeatedly outmaneuvered  by अंग्रेजों सेनापतियों  with larger armies .
बाद विजय था महरूम finalized in 1783 , वॉशिंगटन resigned as commander-in-chief बल्कि than seize शक्ति , proving उसके विपक्ष to तानाशाही और उसके प्रतिबद्धता to अमरीकी republicanism .
Dissatisfied with the weaknesses of the  आलेख of कनफेडरेशन , in 1787  Washington presided over the Constitutional Convention that drafted the United States Constitution .
Elected  unanimously  as the first President of the United States in 1789 , he attempted to bring rival factions together to unify the nation .
He supported Alexander Hamilton 's programs to pay off all state and national debt , to  implement an प्रभावी  tax system and to create a national bank ( despite opposition from Thomas Jefferson ) .
Washington proclaimed the United States  न्यूट्रल in the  wars raging in Europe after 1793 .
He avoided war with Great Britain and guaranteed a decade of peace and profitable trade by securing the Jay Treaty in 1795 , despite  तीव्र विपक्ष  from the Jeffersonians .
Although never officially  joining  the Federalist Party , he supported its programs .
Washington  's विदाई पता  was an influential primer on republican virtue and a warning against partisanship , sectionalism , and involvement in foreign wars .
He retired from the presidency in 1797 and returned to his home , Mount Vernon , and his  घरेलू जीवन जहाँ he प्रबंधित  a variety of enterprises .
he freed सब  his slaves by his final will .
Washington   had a vision of a great and powerful nation that would be built on republican lines using federal power .
He sought to use the national government to preserve liberty , improve infrastructure , open the western lands , promote commerce , found a permanent  पूंजी , reduce क्षेत्रीय तनाव  and promote a spirit of American nationalism .
At his death , Washington was eulogized as `` first in war , first  in सलाम , और पहला  in the hearts of his countrymen '' by Henry Lee .
The Federalists made him the symbol of their party but for many years , the  jeffersonians जारी to अविश्वास  his influence and delayed building the Washington Monument .
As the leader of the first successful revolution against a colonial empire in world  history ,  Washington became an international icon for liberation and nationalism , especially in France and Latin America .
Fiscal Year 2012 U.S.  संघीय बिता – नकदी  or Budget Basis .
फिस्कल  Year 2012 U.S. Federal Receipts .
The Budget of the United States Government often begins as the President 's proposal to  the u.S. कॉंग्रेस जिससे अनुशंसा  funding levels for the next fiscal year , beginning October 1 .
However , Congress is the body required by law to pass a budget annually and to submit the budget  passed by दोनो घरों to the अध्यक्ष लिये  signature .
Congressional decisions are governed by rules  और विधान regarding  the federal budget process .
Budget committees  set spending  limits for the House and Senate committees and for Appropriations subcommittees , which then approve individual appropriations bills to allocate funding to various federal programs .
If Congress fails to pass an annual budget ( as has been the case since 2009 ) , a series of Appropriations bills must be passed as `` stop  gap ''  measures .
After Congress approves an appropriations bill , it is sent to the President , who may sign it into law , or may  वीटो it ( as he होता a बजट  when passed by the Congress ) .
A vetoed bill is sent back to Congress , which  can pass it into विधि साथ  a two-thirds majority in each chamber .
Congress may also  combine सब or  some appropriations bills into an omnibus reconciliation bill .
In addition , the president may request and the Congress may pass  supplemental appropriations बिल्स  or emergency supplemental appropriations bills .
Several government agencies provide budget  आंकड़ा  and analysis .
These include the Government Accountability Office ( GAO ) , Congressional Budget Office , the Office of Management and Budget ( OMB )  और the u.S. राजकोष विभाग  .
These agencies have reported that the federal government is facing a  श्रेणी of महत्वपूर्ण financing चुनौतियां  .
In the short-run , tax  revenues  have declined significantly due to a severe recession and tax policy choices , while expenditures have expanded for wars , unemployment insurance and other safety net spending .
In the long-run , expenditures related to healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid are projected to grow faster than the  अर्थव्यवस्था overall as the  population matures .
New Guinea ( also , Tok Pisin : Niugini , Dutch : Nieuw Guinea , and ; historically : Papua ) is the world 's second  largest द्वीप ,  after Greenland , covering a land area of 786,000 km2 .
Located in the southwest Pacific Ocean , it lies geographically to the east of the Malay Archipelago , with which it is  sometimes शामिल as भाग of a वृहद  Indo-Australian Archipelago .
Geologically it is a part of the same tectonic plate  as ऑस्ट्रेलिया  .
When world sea  स्तर यहूद कम , the दो साझा  shorelines ( which now lie 100 to 140 metres below sea level ) , combining with lands now inundated into the tectonic continent of Sahul , also known as Greater Australia .
The two landmasses became separated when the area now known as the Torres Strait flooded after the end  of the पिछला glacial काल  .
Anthropologically , New Guinea is  माना भाग  of Melanesia .
नीतियां , the पश्चिमी  half of the island comprises two Indonesian provinces : Papua and West Papua .
The eastern half forms the mainland of  the देश  of Papua New Guinea .
The island has a population of about 7.5 million ,  साथ a बहुत कम  population density of only 8 inh/km2 .
New Guinea is differentiated from its drier , flatter , and less fertile southern counterpart , Australia , by its much higher rainfall and its active volcanic  geology  , with its highest point , Puncak Jaya , reaching an elevation of 4,884 m ( 16,023 ft ) .
Yet the two land masses share a similar  एनिमल fauna , साथ marsupials , सहित wallabies  and possums , and the egg-laying monotreme , the spiny anteater , or echidna .
Other than bats and some two dozen indigenous rodent genera , there are no pre-human indigenous  placental  mammals .
Pigs , several additional species  of चूहे  , and the ancestor of the New Guinea Singing Dog were introduced with human colonization .
The human presence on   the island dates back at least 40,000 years to the oldest human migrations out of Africa .
Research indicates that the highlands were an early and independent center of agriculture , with evidence  of सिंचाई  going back at least 10,000 years .
Because of the time depth of its inhabitation and its highly fractured landscape , an unusually high number of languages are spoken on the island , with some 1,000 languages ( a  फिगर उच्चतर than कि of सबसे महाद्वीपों ) having महरूम catalogued  out of an estimated world-wide pre-Columbian total of 6,000 human dialects .
Most are classified as Papuan languages , a generally accepted geographical term which a minority of authors hold to  be a जेनेटिक एक  .
A number of Austronesian  भाषाएं हैं  spoken on the coast and on offshore islands .
In the 16th century Spanish explorers discovered the island and  पुकारा it नुएवा  Guinea .
In recent history western New Guinea was included in the Dutch  ईस्ट इंडीज उपनिवेश  .
The Germans annexed the northern coast of the eastern half of the island as German New Guinea in their pre–World War I effort to establish themselves as a colonial  शक्ति  , whilst the south eastern portion was reluctantly claimed by Britain .
Following the Treaty of Versailles , the German portion was awarded to  ऑस्ट्रेलिया ( जिससे थी already  governing the British claim , named the Territory of Papua ) as a League of Nations mandate .
The eastern half of the  द्वीप थी granted स्वतंत्रता  from Australia as Papua New Guinea in 1975 .
The western half gained  स्वतंत्रता इससे the डच in 1961 , लकिन  became part of Indonesia soon afterwards in controversial circumstances .
`` The Van  buren लड़कों '' is the  148th episode of the sitcom Seinfeld , and name of a fictional New York street gang .
Their sign is crossing  the  hands , with one hand with all the fingers 'up ' and spread out .
The other hand  रै सब  but the thumb and pointer finger up , for a total of eight ( 8 ) .
The gang is named for the 8th President of the United States , Martin Van Buren ( who was the first  अध्यक्ष इससे  New York ) .
इस  was the 14th episode for the 8th season .
It  aired on  February 6 , 1997 .
bevo  sign
bevo थी a non-alcoholic  malt beverage , or near beer , brewed in the United States by the Anheuser-Busch company beginning in the early 20th century .
Bevo enjoyed its greatest success during the time of  निषेध , जब बियर , वाइन  and distilled liquors , were made illegal for thirteen years .
The Anheuser-Busch company started brewing Bevo when  alcoholic पेय  were prohibited in 1916 by the United States armed forces .
Production rose greatly with national prohibition in 1919 , and Bevo was by far the  सबसे लोकप्रिय of the अनेक ``  cereal beverages '' or `` near beers '' of the time .
At the peak of its popularity in the early 1920s , more  than पाँच लाख मामले  of Bevo were sold annually .
renard साथ a मग of bevo , चित्रित  in terra cotta on the interior walls of the Bevo building , St. Louis
Labels on the bottles  billed it as ``  Bevo the Beverage '' .
The  नाम `` bevo '' थी coined  from the word `` beverage '' and the Slavic language word for beer `` pivo '' , and was pronounced `` Bee-vo '' .
Some Bevo advertising featured the character `` Renard the Fox `` ( based on the protagonist of a medieval French  folk-tale ) , और promotional  mugs with this character were manufactured .
In 1930  anheuser-busch निर्मित a श्रेणी of boat-bodied गाड़ियाँ  in its St. Louis shops called the `` Bevo Boats '' which were used for promotion .
Seven are believed to have been built on Pierce-Arrow 8-cylinder chassis while one surviving example was based  upon 1930 कैडिलैक  353 V8 .
Billboard advertising Bevo in Trenton  , नई  Jersey , 1917
A contemporary advertisement read ``  कूलिंग  and invigorating , Bevo the Beverage .
अनुक्रम  by the case from your grocer , druggist , or dealer . ''
The paper label on the back of  the  bottle read `` The All-Year-Round Soft Drink .
Appetizing -  healthful - पौष्टिक  - Refreshing .
Milk or water may  contain जीवाणु  .
BEVO  never करता  . ''
Bevo became part of the popular  संस्कृति of the समय , और is उल्लेखित  in various popular songs and Vaudeville skits of the era .
This led to secondary slang uses of the word ; for example , in American military slang a  यंग और अनुभवहीन अधिकारी थी  called a `` Bevo '' .
The University of Texas named its mascot `` Bevo '' ,  a नाम  which has stuck to this day .
Irving Berlin included a paean to the drink ,  `` तुम ca n't रहो  Up on Bevo '' , in his 1917 army revue , Yip Yip Yaphank .
In the late 1920s smuggled bootleg beer and liquor as well as  `` homebrew `` ,  cut into Bevo 's marketshare .
With sales  flattening to 100,000  cases by 1929 , Anheuser-Busch stopped production .
The Bevo Mill , St.  लुई  , in 2008
The Bevo building , with the Renard character prominently displayed at the corners  ,  still operates as a bottling facility at their main brewery in St. Louis , Missouri .
The landmark Bevo  मिल  , constructed by August Anheuser Busch , Sr. in 1917 .
It was closed in 2009 , but it reopened in October 2009  अंतर्गत नई  owners .
Bevo is also mentioned in the short story `` The  हत्यारे `` by अर्नेस्ट हेमिंगवे ;  as well as in Babbitt by Sinclair Lewis .
mylanta is an over  the counter medication used for the treatment of acid reflux , heartburn , and gastroesophageal reflux disease ( also known as GERD ) .
Foremilk and Hindmilk samples of human  स्तन  milk
A  कांच of  pasteurized cow milk
Milk is a white liquid  उत्पादित by the mammary  glands of mammals .
It is the primary source of nutrition for young mammals before they are  समर्थ to डाइजेस्ट अन्य प्रकार  of food .
Early- lactation milk contains colostrum , which carries the mother 's antibodies to the baby  और can reduce the रिस्क of  many diseases in the baby .
It also contains many other  nutrients  .
As an agricultural product , milk is extracted from mammals and used  as food  for humans .
Worldwide , dairy farms produced about 730  लाख टन of  milk in 2011 .
India is the world 's largest  निर्माता और  consumer of milk , yet neither exports nor imports milk .
New Zealand , the European Union 's 27 member states , Australia , and the United States are the  संसार 's largest निर्यातक  of milk and milk products .
चीन और  Russia are the world 's largest importers of milk and milk products .
Throughout the world , there are more than 6 billion consumers of milk and milk  उत्पाद  .
Over 750 million people live  भीतर  dairy farming households .
Milk is a key  योगदानकर्ता to  improving nutrition and food security particularly in developing countries .
Improvements  in पशुधन और दुग्ध  technology offer significant promise in reducing poverty and malnutrition in the world .
Motorcycle speedway , usually referred to as speedway , is a motorcycle sport involving four and sometimes up to six riders competing  over चार anti-clockwise  laps of an oval circuit .
Speedway motorcycles use only one gear and have no brakes and racing takes place on a flat oval track usually consisting of dirt or  loosely packed shale  .
Competitors use this surface to slide their  मशीने बगलों  , powersliding or broadsiding into the bends .
On the straight sections of  the track the मोटरसाइकिल  reach speeds of up .
The exact origins of the  sport are unknown but  there is evidence of a type of speedway racing being practised in the USA before the First World War and in Australia in the late 1910s and early 1920s .
There are now both domestic and international competitions in a number of countries including the Speedway World Cup whilst the highest overall  स्कोरिंग व्यक्तिगत in the स्पीडवे ग्रैंड प्रिक्स कार्यक्रम is सुनाया the संसार चैंपियन  .
Speedway is popular in central and northern Europe and to a lesser extent in  ऑस्ट्रेलिया और  North America .
A variant of track racing , speedway is administered  internationally by the fédération internationale  de Motocyclisme ( FIM ) .
घरेलू स्पीडवे कार्यक्रम हैं regulated  by FIM affiliated national motor sport federations .
Vitamin D is a  समूह of  fat-soluble secosteroids responsible for intestinal absorption of calcium and phosphate .
In humans , the  सबसे महत्वपूर्ण  related compounds of vitamin D are vitamin D2 and vitamin D3 .
Cholecalciferol ( vitamin D3 ) and  ergocalciferol ( विटामिन d2 ) हैं अद्वितीय as वे  constitute what we know as vitamin D and can be ingested from the diet and/or supplements .
The  देह can भी synthesize विटामिन d ( इससे कोलेस्ट्रॉल ) जब  sun exposure is adequate ( hence its nickname , the `` sunshine vitamin '' ) .
Although vitamin D is commonly called a vitamin , it is not actually an essential dietary vitamin in the strict sense , as it can be synthesized in adequate amounts  by सबसे स्तनधारियों उजागर to धूप  .
( Cats and dogs can not synthesize vitamin D  efficiently और जरूर प्राप्त  it in their diet . )
An organic chemical compound ( or related set of compounds ) is only scientifically called a vitamin when it can not be synthesized in sufficient quantities by an organism ,  और जरूर be प्राप्त इससे  their diet .
However , as with other compounds commonly called vitamins , vitamin D was discovered in an effort to find the dietary substance  that was lacking in a  disease , namely , rickets , the childhood form of osteomalacia .
Additionally , like  अन्य यौगिकों  called vitamins , in the developed world vitamin D is added to staple foods , such as milk , to avoid disease due to deficiency .
Measures of serum levels reflect endogenous   synthesis from exposure to sunlight as well as intake from the diet , and it is believed that synthesis may contribute generally to the maintenance of adequate serum concentrations .
The evidence indicates that the synthesis of vitamin D from sun exposure works in a feedback loop that prevents toxicity but , because of uncertainty about the cancer risk from sunlight , no recommendations are issued by the Institute of Medicine , USA , for the  राशि of सूर्य एक्सपोज़र जरूरी to मिलें विटामिन d  requirements .
Accordingly , the Dietary  सन्दर्भ intakes लिये विटामिन d assume कि no संश्लेषण  occurs and that all of a person 's vitamin D is from their diet , although that will rarely occur in practice .
In the liver vitamin D is converted to calcidiol , which is also known as calcifediol ( INN ) , 25-hydroxycholecalciferol , or 25-hydroxyvitamin D—abbreviated 25 ( OH ) D ; and which is the specific  vitamin D  metabolite that is measured in serum to determine a person 's vitamin D status .
Part of the calcidiol is converted by the kidneys to calcitriol , the biologically active form of vitamin D. Calcitriol  circulates as a हार्मोन in the रक्त , regulating  the concentration of calcium and phosphate in the bloodstream and promoting the healthy growth and remodeling of bone .
Calcidiol is also converted to calcitriol outside of the kidneys for other  उद्देश्य ,  such as the proliferation , differentiation and apoptosis of cells ; calcitriol also affects neuromuscular function and inflammation .
Beyond its use to prevent  osteomalacia or rickets  , the evidence for other health effects of vitamin D supplementation in the general population is inconsistent .
The best evidence of benefit is for bone health and a decrease in mortality in   elderly women .
The Duramax is a General Motors diesel engine family for light- and medium duty  ट्रक ,  designed by Isuzu .
The 6.6-liter Duramax is produced by DMAX , a  संयुक्त venture  between GM and Isuzu in Moraine , Ohio .
This engine was initially installed in  2001  model year Chevy and GMC trucks and has been an option since then in pickups , vans , and medium-duty trucks .
In 2006 , production at Moraine was  reportedly  limited to approximately 200,000 engines per year .
On May 9 , 2007 , DMAX announced  the उत्पादन  of the 1,000,000th Duramax V-8 diesel at its Moraine facility .
duramax  LML
balto  .
is also a traditional written abbreviation for Baltimore ,  मेरीलैंड  .
Statue of  balto in सेंट्रल  Park ( New York City )
Balto ( 1919 – March 14 , 1933 ) was a Siberian Husky sled dog who led his team on the final leg of the 1925 serum run to Nome , in which diphtheria antitoxin was transported  इससे anchorage , अलास्का , to nenana , अलास्का , by ट्रैन और तब to nome  by dog sled to combat an outbreak of the disease .
The run is commemorated by the  सालाना iditarod  Trail Sled Dog Race .
Balto was named  बाद the  Sami explorer Samuel Balto .
Balto died at the age of  14  .
Professor Stephen Hawking , known for being a theoretical  physicist , रै appeared in अनेक works  of popular culture .
The Nissan Maxima is a mid-size /  entry-level लक्ज़री  car manufactured by Nissan , marketed as the `` four-door sports car '' .
The origins of the Maxima began in July 1976 as the Datsun 810 , an upscale six-cylinder version of the Bluebird , and was spun into its own  लकीर in 1981 , having  been made continuously since then .
The `` Maxima '' name was applied gradually  , शुरूआत in  1981 .
Most pre-2004 Maximas were  निर्मित  in Oppama , Japan , until the current North American Maximas started being assembled in Smyrna , Tennessee .
The `` Maxima ''  रै भी महरूम लागू  to Cefiros and Laurels in various markets .
propolis as छत्ता sealing
Propolis is a resinous mixture that honey bees collect from  पेड़ कलियों , sap बहती  , or other botanical sources .
It is used as a sealant for unwanted open spaces in the  छत्ता  .
Propolis is used for small gaps (  लगभग or कम  ) , while larger spaces are usually filled with beeswax .
Its color varies  depending on इसके  botanical source , the most common being dark brown .
Propolis is sticky at  और  above room temperature , .
At lower  temperatures , it becomes  hard and very brittle .
Steven Tyler ( born Steven Victor Tallarico ; March 26 ,  1948 ) is an अमरीकी सिंगर , songwriter , और multi-instrumentalist  , best known as the frontman and lead singer of the Boston -based rock band Aerosmith , in which he also plays the harmonica , and occasional piano and percussion .
He is known as  the `` राक्षस of  Screamin ' '' due to his high screams and his wide vocal range .
He is also known for his on-stage  acrobatics  .
During his high-energy performances ,  he प्रायः पोशाक  in bright , colorful outfits with his trademark scarves hanging from his microphone stand .
In the 1970s , Tyler rose to prominence as the frontman of Aerosmith , which  released ऐसे पड़ाव  hard rock albums as Toys in the Attic and Rocks .
In the late 1970s and early 1980s , Tyler had a heavy drug and alcohol addiction , and the band 's  लोकप्रियता waned .
He completed drug rehabilitation in 1986 and subsequently maintained sobriety for over 20  सालो ,  but had a relapse with prescription painkillers in the late 2000s , for which he successfully received treatment in 2009 .
After Aerosmith launched a remarkable comeback in the late 1980s  और जल्दी 1990s साथ the एल्बम  Permanent Vacation , Pump , and Get a Grip , Tyler became a household name and has remained a relevant rock icon .
As a result , he has since embarked on several solo endeavors including guest appearances on other artists ' music , film and TV roles ( including as a judge on American Idol ) , authoring a bestselling book , and solo work ( including a Top  40 hit सिंगल in 2011  ) .
however ,  he has continued to record music and perform with Aerosmith , after more than 43 years in the band .
The band 's latest album , Music from  another आयाम  !
,  थी released on नवम्बर  6 , 2012 .
टायलर is  included among Rolling Stones 100 Greatest Singers .
He was also ranked 3rd on Hit Parader 's Top 100  मेटल vocalists  of All Time .
In 2001 he was  inducted into the  Rock and Roll Hall of Fame with Aerosmith , and he was the presenter when AC/DC was inducted into the Hall of Fame in 2003 .
In  2013 , टायलर  and his songwriting partner Joe Perry will be recipients of the ASCAP Founders Award and will also be inducted into the Songwriters Hall of Fame .
The  जिगर  produces urea in the urea cycle as a waste product of the digestion of protein .
Normal human adult blood should contain between  7 to 21  mg of urea nitrogen per 100 ml ( 7–21 mg/ dL ) of blood .
Individual laboratories may have different reference ranges ,  और इस is क्युकी the  procedure may vary .
Wayne Fontes ( born February 2 , 1940 ) is a former American football coach and college and professional football player who was the head coach of the  एनएफएल 's डेट्रॉयट शेर इससे 1988 to  1996 .
His 67  विन्स  and 71 losses are each the most for a head coach in team history .
The   Jews ( ISO 259-3 Israeli pronunciation ) , also known as the Jewish people , are a nation and an ethnoreligious group , originating in the Israelites or Hebrews of the Ancient Near East .
The Jewish ethnicity , nationality , and religion are strongly interrelated , as Judaism is the  परंपरागत  faith of the Jewish nation .
Converts to Judaism , whose status as Jews  भीतर the यहूदी ethnos is बराबर to  those born into it , have been absorbed into the Jewish people throughout the millennia .
in यहूदी परंपरा  , Jewish ancestry is traced to the Biblical patriarchs Abraham , Isaac and Jacob in the second millennium BCE .
The modern State of Israel was  स्थापित  as a Jewish nation-state , and defines itself as such in its Basic Laws .
Its Law of Return grants the right of citizenship to any  jew  who requests it .
इसराईल is the तभी  country where Jews are a majority of the population .
Jews also enjoyed political  स्वायत्तता twice  before in ancient history .
The first of these periods lasted from 1350 to 586 BCE , and encompassed the periods  of the  Judges , the United Monarchy , and the Divided Monarchy of the Kingdoms of Israel and Judah , ending with the destruction of the First Temple .
The second was the  काल of the  Hasmonean Kingdom spanning from 140 to 37 BCE .
Since the destruction of the First Temple  , सबसे यहूदियों  have lived in diaspora .
A minority in every country  in जिससे वे सजीव ( मगर इसराईल ) , वे have  frequently experienced persecution throughout history , resulting in a population that has fluctuated both in numbers and distribution over the centuries .
the  world Jewish population reached a peak of 15 million prior to the Second World War , but six million Jews were killed in the Holocaust .
Since then the population has risen again and , was estimated at 13.4 million by the North American Jewish Data Bank , or less than 0.2 % of the  कुल संसार जनसांख्यिकी  ( roughly one in every 514 people ) .
according  to this report , about 42.5 % of all Jews reside in Israel ( 5.7 million ) , and 39.3 % in the United States ( 5.3 million ) , with most of the remainder living in Europe ( 1.5 million ) and Canada ( 0.4 million ) .
These numbers include all those who consider themselves Jews , whether or not they  हैं संबद्ध साथ a यहूदी  organization .
The total world Jewish  जनसांख्यिकी , however  , is difficult to measure .
In addition to issues with census methodology , there are halakhic disputes regarding who is a Jew and secular , political , and  ancestral पहचान  factors that may affect the figure considerably .
Corpus Christi  बारात  .
Oil on canvas by Carl Emil  doepler  .
कॉर्पस domini  redirects here .
लिये अन्य  uses see Corpus Domini ( disambiguation )
The Feast of Corpus Christi ( Latin for Body of Christ ) , also known as Corpus Domini , is a Latin Rite liturgical  solemnity celebrating the  tradition and belief in the body and blood of Jesus Christ and his Real Presence in the Eucharist .
It emphasizes the joy of the  संस्था  of the Eucharist , which was observed on Holy Thursday in the somber atmosphere of the nearness of Good Friday .
In the present Roman Missal , the feast is designated the solemnity of The  सबसे पावन देह  and Blood of Christ .
It is also celebrated in some Anglican , Lutheran , and Old Catholic  चर्च कि थाम  similar beliefs regarding the Real Presence .
The feast is liturgically celebrated on the Thursday after Trinity  संडे or , `` जहाँ the solemnity of the सबसे पावन देह और  Blood of Christ is not a Holy Day of Obligation , it is assigned to the Sunday after the Most Holy Trinity as its proper day '' .
At the end of Holy Mass , there is  प्रायः  a procession of the Blessed Sacrament , generally displayed in a monstrance .
The  बारात is followed  by Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament .
A notable Eucharistic procession is that presided over by the Pope each  साल in रोम , जहाँ  it begins at the Archbasilica of St. John Lateran and makes its way to the Basilica of Saint Mary Major , where it concludes with Benediction .
C-reactive protein ( CRP ) is a protein found in the blood , the levels of which rise in response to  सूजन ( i.e . c-reactive प्रोटीन is an  acute-phase protein ) .
Its  physiological भूमिका is to bind  to phosphocholine expressed on the surface of dead or dying cells ( and some types of bacteria ) in order to activate the complement system via the C1Q complex .
CRP is synthesized by the liver in response to factors released by  macrophages  and fat cells ( adipocytes ) .
It is a member of the pentraxin  परिवार of प्रोटीन  .
It is not related to  c-peptide or प्रोटीन  C .
C-reactive protein was the first  पैटर्न मान्यता  receptor ( PRR ) to be identified .
The start of the systematic European colonization of the Americas is typically dated to 1492 , when a Spanish expedition headed by Christopher Columbus sailed for India to open trade  but  inadvertently discovered the Americas .
European conquest ,  large-scale  exploration and colonization soon followed .
Seeing that Europe was  preoccupied साथ अनेक आतंरिक युद्धों और  was slowly recovering from the many deaths that the bubonic plague caused , the rapid expansion at which it grew in wealth and power was unforeseeable in the early 1400s .
The first expeditions occurred along the Caribbean coasts on  the आइलैंड्स of हिस्पानिओला  , Puerto Rico and Cuba , and after 1500 extended into the interiors of both North and South America .
In 1497 , sailing from the north on behalf of England ,  जॉन cabot उतरा  on the North American coast , and a year later , Columbus 's third voyage reached the South American coast .
France founded colonies in much  of  eastern North America , on a number of Caribbean islands , and in South America .
पुर्तगाल colonized  Brazil .
Eventually , the entire Western Hemisphere came under the control  of यूरोपीय सरकारें  , leading to profound changes to its landscape , population , and plant and animal life .
In the 19th century alone over 50 million people left  यूरोपीय  for the Americas .
The post-1492 era is known as the period of the  columbian एक्सचेंज  .
Keith Richards ( born 18 December 1943 ) is an English musician  , singer-songwriter और संस्थापक  member of the English rock band the Rolling Stones .
Rolling Stone magazine said Richards had created `` rock 's greatest single body of riffs '' , ranking him  4th on इसके सूची of 100 बेहतरीन guitarists  .
Fourteen songs Richards wrote with the Rolling Stones ' lead  vocalist मिक जैगर हैं सूचीबद्ध  among Rolling Stone magazine 's `` 500 Greatest Songs of All Time `` .
Richards ' notoriety for illicit drug use stems in  भाग इससे अनेक ड्रग busts दौरान  the late 1960s and 1970s and his candour regarding his addiction to and eventual abstinence from heroin .
टेस्टोस्टेरोन is a स्टेरॉयड हार्मोन इससे the androgen  group and is found in mammals , reptiles , birds , and other vertebrates .
In mammals , testosterone is primarily secreted in the  अंडकोष of males और the अंडाशय of महिलाओं , हालांकि छोटी  amounts are also secreted by the adrenal glands .
It is the principal male sex hormone and an anabolic  स्टेरॉयड  .
In men , testosterone plays a key role in the development of male reproductive tissues such as the testis and prostate as well as promoting secondary sexual characteristics such as increased muscle ,  अस्थि द्रव्यमान , और the विकास of देह बाल  .
In addition , testosterone is essential for health  और well-being as खूब as  the prevention of osteoporosis .
On average , in adult human males , the plasma concentration of testosterone is about 7–8 times as great as the concentration in adult human females ' plasma , but  as the metabolic खपत  of testosterone in males is greater , the daily production is about 20 times greater in men .
Females also are more sensitive to the   hormone .
Testosterone is observed  in सबसे vertebrates  .
Fish  मेक  a slightly different form called 11-ketotestosterone .
इसके बंटवारा  in insects is ecdysone .
These ubiquitous steroids  सुझाएँ कि  sex hormones have an ancient evolutionary history .
Cluster sampling is a sampling technique used when `` natural '' but relatively homogeneous groupings are evident in a  सांख्यिकीय  population .
It is often used in  विपणन  research .
In this technique , the total population is divided into these groups ( or clusters ) and a simple random sample of the  समूह  is selected .
Then the required information is collected from a simple random sample of the  तत्व भीतर  each selected group .
This may be done for every element in  ये समूह or a subsample  of elements may be selected within each of these groups .
A common  प्रेरणा  for cluster sampling is to reduce the total number of interviews and costs given the desired accuracy .
Assuming a fixed sample size , the technique gives more accurate  परिणाम जब सबसे of the विभिन्नता  in the population is within the groups , not between them .
Jamestown is a town in Guilford County , North Carolina , United States , and is a suburb of the nearby cities of  greensboro और ऊँची पाइंट  .
The population was 3,382 at the 2010  जनसांख्यिकी  .
नताली पोर्टमैन  ( born Natalie Hershlag ; ; June 9 , 1981 ) is an actress and model with dual American and Israeli citizenship .
Her first role was as an orphan taken in by a hitman in the 1994 action film , but mainstream success came when she was cast as Padmé Amidala in the Star Wars prequel  त्रयी ( released  in 1999 , 2002 and 2005 ) .
In 1999 , she enrolled at Harvard  विश्वविद्यालयों to  study psychology while still working as an actress .
She completed her  स्नातक 's उपाधि  in 2003 .
In 2001 , Portman opened in New  यॉर्क  City 's Public Theater production of Anton Chekhov 's The Seagull .
In 2005 , Portman  प्राप्त a नामांकन लिये the अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन  Supporting Actress and won the Golden Globe Award for Best Supporting Actress - Motion Picture for the drama Closer .
She won a Constellation Award for Best Female  प्रदर्शन और  a Saturn Award for Best Actress for her starring role in V for Vendetta ( 2006 ) .
She played leading  भूमिकाएँ in the ऐतिहासिक  dramas Goya 's Ghosts ( 2006 ) and The Other Boleyn Girl ( 2008 ) .
In May 2008 , she served as the youngest  सदस्य  of the 61st Annual Cannes Film Festival jury .
Portman 's directorial debut , Eve , opened the  65th  Venice International Film Festival 's shorts competition in 2008 .
Portman directed a  खण्ड  of the collective film New York , I Love You .
In 2011 , Portman won the Academy Award , the Golden Globe Award , the BAFTA Award , the Screen Actors Guild Award , and the Independent Spirit Award for her lead  प्रदर्शन as नीना sayers in  Black Swan .
Copper is a chemical element with  the प्रतीक cu ( इससे ) और  atomic number 29 .
It  is a ductile मेटल  with very high thermal and electrical conductivity .
Pure copper is soft and malleable ; a freshly exposed  सतह  has a reddish-orange color .
It is used as a conductor of  ऊष्मा और विद्युत  , a building material , and a constituent of various metal alloys .
The metal and its alloys have been used for  हज़ारों of सालो  .
In the Roman era , copper was principally mined on Cyprus , hence the origin of the name of the metal as сyprium ( metal of  साइप्रस ) , बाद  shortened to сuprum .
Its compounds are commonly encountered as copper ( II ) salts , which often impart blue or green colors to minerals such as azurite and turquoise and have been widely used historically as  pigments  .
Architectural structures built  साथ  copper corrode to give green verdigris ( or patina ) .
Decorative art  prominently सुविधाएँ  copper , both by itself and as part of pigments .
Copper is essential to all living organisms as a trace dietary mineral because it is a key constituent of the respiratory enzyme complex  cytochrome  c oxidase .
In molluscs and crustacea copper is a constituent of the blood pigment hemocyanin , which is replaced by the iron-complexed hemoglobin in fish  और अन्य  vertebrates .
The main areas where copper is found in vertebrates are liver ,  मांसपेशी और अस्थि  .
In sufficient concentration , copper compounds are poisonous to higher organisms and are used as bacteriostatic  substances , fungicides , और लकडी preservatives  .
The major professional sports leagues , or simply major leagues ,  in the संयुक्त राज्य  and Canada are the highest professional competitions of team sports in the two countries .
Although individual sports such as golf , tennis  , और स्वचालित रेसिंग  are also very popular , the term is usually limited to team sports .
The term `` major league ''  थी पहला प्रयुक्त in 1921 in सन्दर्भ  to Major League Baseball ( MLB ) , the top level of professional American baseball .
Today , the major northern North America professional team sports leagues are Major League Baseball ( MLB ) , the National Basketball   Association ( NBA ) , the National Football League ( NFL ) , and the National Hockey League ( NHL ) .
Other notable leagues include Major League Soccer ( MLS ) , the Canadian Football League ( CFL ) , the Arena Football League  ,  Major League Lacrosse , the National Lacrosse League and the Women 's National Basketball Association .
The NFL , MLB , NBA  ,  and NHL are commonly referred to as the Big Four .
Each of these is the richest professional club competition in its sport worldwide   .
The best players can become cultural icons in both countries and elsewhere in the world , because the  लीग आनंद a significant प्लेस in  popular culture in the US and Canada .
The NFL has 32  टीमों  , and the others have 30 each .
The vast  बहुमत  of major league teams are concentrated in the most populous metropolitan areas of the United States .
Baseball , football ,  हॉकी , और सॉकर have था पेशेवर लीग  for over 100 years ; early leagues such as the National Association , Ohio League , and National Hockey Association formed the basis of the modern MLB , NFL and NHL respectively .
Soccer was first professionalized in 1894 , but  लीग  suffered greatly from lack of sustainability and seldom lasted more than a decade .
Soccer 's  महानतम सफलताओं यहूद in the रूप of the अमरीकी सॉकर  League ( 1921-1933 ) , the original North American Soccer League ( 1968-1984 ) , the National Professional Soccer League ( 1984-2001 ) and , currently , Major League Soccer ( 1996-present ) .
Basketball is a relatively new development ; the NBA evolved from the  नेशनल बास्केट लीग और इसके splinter समूह  the Basketball Association of America , taking on its current form in 1949 .
Every major  लीग averages  15,000 fans in attendance per game or higher as of 2011 .
मध्याह्न ऊँचाई is an खगोलीय  navigation method of calculating an observer 's latitude .
Earned value management ( EVM ) , or Earned  मान project/performance प्रबन्धन ( evpm ) is a प्रोजेक्ट प्रबन्धन  technique for measuring project performance and progress in an objective manner .
Because EVM has the ability to combine  माप  of :
पैमाना
अनुसूची
और  cost,
in a single integrated system , Earned Value Management   is able to provide accurate forecasts of project performance problems , which is an important contribution for project management .
Early EVM research showed that the areas of planning and control are significantly impacted by its use ; and similarly , using the methodology improves both scope  परिभाषा as खूब as the विश्लेषण of overall  project performance .
More recent research studies have shown that the principles of EVM  हैं धनात्मक predictors  of project success .
Popularity of EVM has grown significantly in recent years beyond government contracting , in which sector its importance continues to rise (  e.g.  , recent new DFAR rules ) , in part because EVM can also surface in and help substantiate contract disputes .
रंगीन  spring garden flowers
Spring is one of the four conventional temperate seasons  , following शीत और  preceding summer .
There are various technical definitions of spring  , लकिन  local usage of the term varies according to local climate , cultures and customs .
When  it is वसन्त  in the northern hemisphere , it will be autumn in the southern hemisphere .
At the spring equinox , days are close to 12 hours long with day length  increasing as the ऋतु  progresses .
Spring and `` springtime '' refer to the season , and also to ideas of rebirth , rejuvenation , renewal , resurrection , and regrowth , with  त्यौहार ऐसे as कार्निवल , ईस्टर  and Holi being celebrated at this time .
Jamestown was  a उपनिवेश in the उपनिवेश of वर्जिनिया , the  first permanent English settlement in the Americas .
Established by the Virginia Company of London as `` James Fort '' on May 14 , 1607 ( O.S . , May 24 , 1607 N.S . ) , it followed several  पहले विफल  attempts , including the Lost Colony of Roanoke .
Jamestown served as  the पूंजी of  the colony for 83 years , from 1616 until 1699 .
The settlement was located within  the territory of a राजनैतिक एंटिटी ज्ञात as tsenacommacah  , the state of the Powhatan Confederacy , with around 14,000 native inhabitants , and specifically was in part of the subdivision known as the Paspahegh tribe .
The natives initially welcomed the colonists with dancing , feasting and tobacco ceremonies , and they provided crucial provisions and support for the survival of the colonists , who were not agriculturally inclined , although relations with the newcomers  भी soured fairly जल्दी on , अग्रणी to the कुल annihilation of the paspahegh in  warfare within 3 years .
Within a year of  jamestown 's founding  , the Virginia Company brought Polish and Dutch colonists to help improve the settlement .
In 1619 , the first documented Africans were brought to Jamestown , though the modern conception of slavery in the future United States did  नहीं शुरू in वर्जिनिया जबतक  1660 .
When the colony was subdivided into the original  आठ shires of वर्जिनिया  in 1634 , the town became located in the eponymous James City Shire .
The London Company 's second settlement , Bermuda , claims to be the site of the oldest town in the English  नई संसार , as st. जार्ज 's , बरमूडा थी officially स्थापित  ( as New London ) in 1612 , whereas James Fort , in Virginia , was not to be converted into James towne until 1619 , and further did not survive into the present day .
In 1699 , the capital was relocated from Jamestown to what is  आज williamsburg , बाद  which Jamestown ceased to exist as a settlement , existing today only as an archaeological site .
Today , Jamestown is one of three locations comprising  the ऐतिहासिक त्रिभुज of  Colonial Virginia , along with Williamsburg and Yorktown , with two primary heritage sites .
Historic Jamestowne , the  पुरातत्व साईट on jamestown  Island , is a cooperative effort by Jamestown National Historic Site ( part of Colonial National Historical Park ) , and Preservation Virginia .
The Jamestown Settlement , a living history interpretive  साईट , is संचालित  by the Jamestown Yorktown Foundation in conjunction with the Commonwealth of Virginia .
James Christopher Frey ( born September 12 , 1969 ) is  an अमरीकी  writer .
His books A Million Little Pieces ( 2003 ) and My Friend Leonard ( 2005 ) , as well as Bright Shiny  morning  ( 2008 ) , were bestsellers .
He was the subject of a scandal when investigators discovered that prison time and the extent of certain injuries were exaggerated in  A  Million Little Pieces , a purportedly autobiographical account of the author 's struggle with addiction .
Deere & Company , most commonly known by its name John Deere , is an American corporation based in  moline , इलिनोइस ,  and one of the largest manufacturers of agricultural machinery in the world .
in 2012 ,  it was listed as 97th in the Fortune 500 America 's ranking and 190th in the Fortune 500 Global ranking .
Deere and  कम्पनी agricultural  products , sold under the John Deere name , include tractors , combine harvesters , cotton harvesters , balers , planters / seeders , sprayers , and UTVs .
The company is also a manufacturer of  निर्माण उपकरण और वानिकी  equipment , as well as a supplier of diesel engines and drivetrains ( axles , transmissions , gearboxes ) used in heavy equipment .
Additionally , John Deere manufactures equipment used in lawn , grounds , and turf care , such as walk-behind lawn mowers , zero-turn lawn  mowers , लॉन tractors , और snowthrowers  .
To support the core businesses , John Deere also provides financial  सेवाएं और  other related activities .
The company 's slogan is `` Nothing Runs Like  a  Deere '' and has a picture of a leaping deer as a logo , a word play pun on `` nothing runs like a deer '' .
Carl Westby coined the phrase `` Nothing Runs Like a Deere '' for a  विपणन अभियान  to sell snowmobiles .
The company 's products are also identifiable by its  distinctive  shade of green paint , usually augmented by yellow trim .
The United States ten-dollar bill (  $ 10 ) is a denomination  of United States currency .
The first U.S.  सचिव of the राजकोष ( 1789–95 ) , सिकंदर  Hamilton , is currently featured on the obverse of the bill , while the U.S. Treasury Building is featured on the reverse .
( Hamilton is one of two non-presidents featured  on फिलहाल  issued U.S. bills .
The  अन्य is बेंजामिन  Franklin , on the $ 100 bill .
Hamilton is one of only four people featured on U.S. paper currency ( 1861 to the present ) who was not born in the  महाद्वीपीय संयुक्त राज्य  , as he was from the West Indies .
The others are : Albert Gallatin , Switzerland ( $ 500 1862/63 Legal Tender ) ;  जार्ज meade , स्पेन ( $  1,000 1890/91 Treasury Note ) ; and Robert Morris , England ( $ 1,000 1862/63 Legal Tender ; $ 10 1878/80 Silver Certificate ) .
In addition , Kamehameha I ,  appears  on the 2008 Hawaii state quarter . )
All $ 10 bills  जारी आज  are Federal Reserve Notes .
The Bureau of Engraving and Printing says the average life of a $  10  bill in circulation is 18 months before it is replaced due to wear .
Approximately 6 % of all US banknotes printed in 2009  यहूद $ 10  bills .
Ten dollar  बिल्स हैं वितरित  by Federal Reserve Banks in yellow straps .
The source of the  फेस on the $ 10 विधेयक is  John Trumbull ’s 1805 portrait of Hamilton that belongs to the portrait collection of New York City Hall .
The $ 10 bill is the only U.S. paper currency in circulation in which the portrait  चेहरों to the बाएँ  ( the $ 100,000 bill featured a portrait of Woodrow Wilson facing to the left , but was used only for intra-government transactions ) .
Andy  सैमुएल ग्रिफ़िथ  ( June 1 , 1926 – July 3 , 2012 ) was an American actor , television producer , Grammy Award -winning Southern-gospel singer , and writer .
He was a Tony Award nominee for two roles , and gained prominence in the starring role in director Elia Kazan 's film A Face in the Crowd ( 1957 ) before he became better known for his television roles ,  playing the  lead characters in the 1960–1968 situation comedy The Andy Griffith Show and in the 1986–1995 legal drama Matlock .
Theresa Penelope `` Terri '' Irwin , ( née  raines ; born जुलाई 20 , 1964 )  is an Australian -based , American -born naturalist , author , the widow of Australian naturalist Steve Irwin and owner of Australia Zoo at Beerwah , Queensland , Australia .
She co-starred with her husband on The Crocodile Hunter , their unconventional television nature documentary series along with its spin-off series , Croc Files and The  मगरमच्छ शिकारी डायरीज़  .
She has lived in Australia since 1992 , when  वो शादीशुदा  Steve Irwin .
Andreas Cellarius 's  उदाहरण  of the Copernican system , from the Harmonia Macrocosmica ( 1660 ) .
Heliocentrism , or heliocentricism , is the astronomical model in which the Earth and planets revolve around a  अपेक्षाकृत stationary सूर्य at the  center of the Solar System .
The  शब्द आता इससे the यूनानी  ( helios `` sun '' and kentron `` center '' ) .
Historically , heliocentrism  थी opposed  to geocentrism , which placed the Earth at the center .
The notion that the Earth revolves around the Sun had been proposed as early as the 3rd century BC by Aristarchus of Samos , but Aristarchus 's heliocentrism  आकर्षित छोटी ध्यान जबतक  Copernicus revived and elaborated it .
Lucio Russo , however , argues that this  is a misleading  impression resulting from the loss of scientific works of the Hellenistic Era .
Using indirect evidence he  argues कि a heliocentric  view was expounded in Hipparchus 's work on gravity .
It was not until  the 16th सदी कि a fully predictive गणितीय मॉडल  of a heliocentric system was presented , by the Renaissance mathematician , astronomer , and Catholic cleric Nicolaus Copernicus of Poland , leading to the Copernican Revolution .
In the following century , Johannes Kepler elaborated upon and expanded this  मॉडल to शामिल  elliptical orbits , and supporting observations made using a telescope were presented by Galileo Galilei .
With the observations of William Herschel , Friedrich Bessel , and others , astronomers realized that the sun was not the  बीच of the ब्रह्मांड और by the 1920s एडविन हबल था दिखाया कि it  was part of a galaxy ( the Milky Way ) that was only one of many billions .
Norah Jones ( born Geetali Norah Jones Shankar ; March 30 , 1979 ) is an American  singer-songwriter  , pianist , and actress .
She is the daughter of Indian  सितार  player Ravi Shankar and Sue Jones .
She is also Anoushka Shankar 's  half-sister  .
In 2002 , she launched her solo music career with the release of the commercially successful and critically  acclaimed एल्बम आइये दूर साथ me , a संलयन of देश म्यूज़िक  and pop with elements of jazz which was certified diamond album , selling over 26 million copies .
The record earned Jones five  ग्रैमी पुरस्कार ,  including the Album of the Year , Record of the Year , and Best New Artist .
Her subsequent studio albums ,  feels जैसे घर , released in 2004 , नहीं too लेट  , released in 2007 , the same year she made her film debut in My Blueberry Nights , and her 2009 release The Fall all gained Platinum status , selling over a million copies and were generally well received by critics .
Jones ' fifth studio album , Little Broken Hearts , was released on  अप्रैल  27 , 2012 .
Jones has  जीती नौ ग्रैमी  Awards and was 60th on Billboard magazine 's artists of the 2000–2009 decade chart .
Throughout her career , Jones has won   numerous awards and has sold more than 50 million albums worldwide .
Billboard named her the top jazz artist of the  2000–2009 दशक  .
Not to be confused with Dimension  of a शारीरिक  quantity .
For other uses ,  देखिए  Dimension ( disambiguation ) .
From left to right , the  वर्गाकार , the  cube , and the tesseract .
The square is bounded by 1-dimensional lines , the cube by 2-dimensional areas , and the tesseract by 3-dimensional  आयतन  .
A  प्रक्षेप  of the cube is given since it is viewed on a two-dimensional screen .
The same applies to the tesseract , which additionally can only be shown as a projection even in  three-dimensional  space .
A diagram showing the first four  स्थानिक आयाम  .
In physics and mathematics , the dimension of a space or object is informally defined as the  न्यूनतम क्रमांक of निर्देशांक needed to बताएँ कोई पाइंट भीतर  it .
Thus a line has a dimension of one because only one coordinate is needed to specify a point on it ( for example , the  पाइंट at 5 on a क्रमांक लकीर  ) .
A surface such as a plane or the surface of a cylinder or sphere has a dimension of two because two  निर्देशांक हैं needed to बताएँ  a point on it ( for example , to locate a point on the surface of a sphere you need both its latitude and its longitude ) .
the अंदर of a घन , a  cylinder or a sphere is three-dimensional because three coordinates are needed to locate a point within these spaces .
In physical terms , dimension refers to the constituent structure of all space ( volume ) and its position in time ( perceived as a scalar dimension along the t-axis ) , as well as the spatial constitution of  वस्तुएँ within—structures कि correlate साथ दोनो  particle and field conceptions , interact according to relative properties of mass —and are fundamentally mathematical in description .
These , or other  अक्ष , may be संदर्भित  to uniquely identify a point or structure in its attitude and relationship to other objects and occurrences .
Physical theories that incorporate time , such as general relativity , are said to work in  4-dimensional `` spacetime ``  , ( defined as a Minkowski space ) .
Modern theories tend to be `` higher-dimensional '' including quantum  फ़ील्ड और स्ट्रिंग  theories .
The state-space of quantum mechanics is  an infinite-dimensional  function space .
the  concept of dimension is not restricted to physical objects .
High-dimensional spaces occur in mathematics and the sciences for many reasons  , अक्सर  as configuration spaces such as in Lagrangian or Hamiltonian mechanics ; these are abstract spaces , independent of the physical space we live in .
fontana ( ) is a नगर of  200,762 residents in San Bernardino County , California .
Founded in 1913 , it remained essentially rural until World War II , when entrepreneur Henry J.   Kaiser built a large steel mill in the area .
It is now a  क्षेत्रीय हब of the trucking उद्योग , साथ  Interstate 10 and State Route 210 transecting the city from east to west , and Interstate 15 passing diagonally through its northwestern quadrant .
It is home to the  largest of the सैन bernardino काउंटी  system libraries , a renovated historic theater , a municipal park , and the Auto Club Speedway on the site of the Kaiser Steel Mill .
Fontana  भी होस्ट  the Fontana Days Half Marathon and 5K run .
This race is the  तीव्रतम half-marathon  course in the world .
The U.S. 2012 Census reported that Fontana 's population was  200,762 in 2012 , बनाना it the  second most populous city in San Bernardino county county and 14th in the state .
Cowboys Stadium is a stadium with a retractable roof in  आर्लिंगटन , टेक्सास  .
It serves as the home  of the नेशनल  Football League 's Dallas Cowboys .
It replaced the partially covered Texas Stadium , which   opened in 1971 , and served as the Cowboys ' home through the 2008 season .
It was  समाप्त  on May 27 , 2009 .
The stadium seats 85,000 , making it the third largest stadium in the NFL by seating   capacity .
the अधिकतम  capacity of the stadium , including standing room , is 105,000 .
The Party Pass ( open areas )  भाग हैं पीछे सीटे in प्रत्येक  end zone and on a series of six elevated platforms connected by stairways .
It has the world 's largest column-free interior  और the चौथी  largest high definition video screen , which hangs from 20 yard line to 20 yard line .
The facility can also be used for a variety of other activities outside of its main purpose ( professional football ) such as concerts , basketball games , boxing matches ,  कॉलेज फ़ुटबॉल और ऊँची स्कूल फ़ुटबॉल प्रतियोगिताओं  , soccer matches , and motocross races .
Canadian historians until the 1980s  tended  to focus on economic history , including labour history .
In part this is because Canada has had far fewer political or military  विरोध than अन्य  societies .
This was especially true in the first half of the twentieth century when economic  इतिहास थी  overwhelmingly dominant .
Many of the most prominent English Canadian  इतिहासकारों इससे इस काल  were economic historians , such as Harold Innis , Donald Creighton and Arthur R. M. Lower
Scholars of Canadian history were heirs to the  परंपराओं कि विकसित in यूरोपीय  and the United States , but frameworks that worked well elsewhere often failed in Canada .
The heavily Marxist influenced economic history  कि dominates  Europe has little relevance to most of Canadian history .
A focus on class , urban areas  , और उद्योग fails to  address Canada 's rural and resource based economy .
Similarly , the monetarist school that is  प्रबल in the संयुक्त राज्य  also has been difficult to transfer north of the border .
The study of economic history in Canada  became  highly focused on economic geography , and for many years the dominant school of thought has been the staples thesis .
This school of thought bases the study of the Canadian economy on the  study  of natural resources .
This approach has   since also become used outside of Canada in Australia and in many developing nations .
Before the arrival of Europeans , the First Nations of what would  become कनाडा था a विशाल और  vibrant trade network .
Furs , tools ,  सजावटी वस्तुएं , और अन्य goods यहूद प्रायः transported  thousands of kilometres , mostly by canoe throughout the many rivers and lakes of the region .
The early European history of the Canadian economy is usually studied through the staples thesis which argues the Canadian economy developed through the exploitation  of a series of  staples that would be exported to Europe .
Carbon-14 , 14C , or  radiocarbon , is a रेडियोसक्रिय  isotope of carbon with a nucleus containing 6 protons and 8 neutrons .
Its presence in organic materials is  the आधार of the radiocarbon डेटिंग विधि pioneered  by Willard Libby and colleagues ( 1949 ) to date archaeological , geological and hydrogeological samples .
carbon-14 थी खोजा  on 27 February 1940 , by Martin Kamen and Sam Ruben at the University of California Radiation Laboratory in Berkeley , although its existence had been suggested by Franz Kurie in 1934 .
There are three naturally occurring isotopes of carbon on Earth : 99 % of the carbon is carbon-12 ,  1 % is  carbon-13 , and carbon-14 occurs in trace amounts , i.e. , making up about 1 part per trillion ( 0.0000000001 % ) of the carbon in the atmosphere .
The  half-life  of carbon-14 is 5,730±40 years .
Carbon-14 decays into nitrogen-14 through beta  क्षय .
The primary natural source of carbon-14 on Earth is cosmic ray action upon nitrogen in the atmosphere , and it is  इसलिए  a cosmogenic nuclide .
However , open-air nuclear  परीक्षण between  1955–1980 contributed to this pool .
The different  isotopes of कार्बन  do not differ appreciably in their chemical properties .
This is used in chemical and biological research , in a technique called carbon labeling :  carbon-14 अणु can be प्रयुक्त  to replace nonradioactive carbon , in order to trace chemical and biochemical reactions involving carbon atoms from any given organic compound .
Lightning is a highly visible form of energy  ट्रांसफ़र
Lightning strikes  हैं विद्युत discharges  on a massive scale between the atmosphere and an earth-bound object .
They mostly originate in  thunderclouds और terminate  on the ground , called Cloud to Ground ( CG ) lightning .
However , they may also be initiated from a very tall grounded  ऑब्जेक्ट और पहुँचें into the  clouds .
Although `` a lightning strike '' is commonly used to describe all lightning , it  is बल्कि ग़लत और a misnomer ,  as only about 25 % of all lightning events worldwide are CG , the large bulk of lightning events are Intracloud ( IC ) or Cloud to Cloud ( CC ) , where discharge only occurs high in the atmosphere .
The scientific name for the  पूरा प्रक्रम of a सिंगल बिजली  event is a and it is a very complex , multiple stepped interaction , which is not completely understood .
सबसे  CG flashes only `` strike '' one physical location , referred to as a termination .
The primary conducting channel , the bright coursing light you may see and call a `` strike '' , is only about 1 inch in diameter , although to  हमारी आँखें it looks  much larger .
They are  मील  long , upwards of tens of miles .
And the entire flash , lasts only a few fractions of a  दूसरी , सबसे of जिससे  is not visible to human eyes .
थंडर  is always produced by lightning .
Just like lightning , that deceives our eyes , usually looking larger or closer than it really is , the earth 's atmosphere and our brain 's perception of the  बाहर संसार  , ultimately determines whether it is `` heard '' or not .
Lightning can not happen in a vacuum devoid of ions ,  nor can थंडर occur  without molecules to vibrate .
Thunder is a physical absolute for every  सिंगल फ्लैश of बिजली  .
Contrary to popular belief ,  a बिजली स्ट्राइक itself  is usually not responsible for multiple deaths or injuries from a single event .
It would be impossible given the natural  tendencies of a फ्लैश , जबतक  people or animals were stacked on top of each other , or they were somehow arranged vertically and part of the flash channel .
When lightning ignites an  उपलब्धियाँ ईंधन सोर्स और an विस्फोट  occurs , it is the shock wave or fire causing the injuries , not the strike itself .
Ground Currents , also called step potential , of an earth termination is what truly causes most  चोटों or मौत to इंसानो  and animals .
The near instantaneous rush of surface charges , induced by the overhead thundercloud itself , race to the strike point from  सैंकड़ों to हज़ारों of फीट दूर दौरान निर्वहन .
This current , caused during each stroke , takes the path of least resistance , which may be ion  समृद्ध इंसान or एनिमल  legs , over poorly conducting earth .
This is why it is best to crouch , with feet close together , if ever caught in the  खोलें दौरान a अंधड़  .
Unfortunately , most reports do not draw a distinction between the real cause of injury or death , be it the strike itself , a  resulting विस्फोट or आग , or प्रायः जिम्मेदार  step potential .
पीटर F. kilmartin  ( born 1962 ) is the current Attorney General of Rhode Island .
Kilmartin is  भी a रिटायर्ड पुलिस कप्तान  and a former member of the Rhode Island House of Representatives .
A  युगल  following their marriage in the Manti Utah Temple .
Sealing is an ordinance (  अनुष्ठान ) performed in latter दिन संतो  temples by a person holding the sealing authority .
The purpose of this ordinance is to seal familiar relationships ,  बनाना संभावित the अस्तित्व  of family relationships throughout eternity .
LDS  शिक्षाओं प्लेस  great importance on the specific authority required to perform these sealings .
Church doctrine  सिखाती  that this authority , called the Priesthood , corresponds to that given to Saint Peter in .
Sealings are  typically performed as विवाह or as  sealing of children to parents .
They were performed prior to the death of Joseph Smith , Jr. ( the main founder of the Latter Day Saint  गति ) , और हैं फिलहाल performed in the गिरिजाघर  of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints .
Although some other denominations , such as the Community of Christ , view  sealing as an centuries of स्मिथ  's practice of plural marriage , some do still perform them .
The 2000s , pronounced `` two thousands '' , was a decade that began  on जनवरी 1  , 2000 , and ended on December 31 , 2009 .
Globalization , which had accelerated after  the जल्दी 1990s पतन  of communism , continued to be a force in the 2000s .
The growth of the Internet was one of the prime contributors to globalization during the decade , making it possible for people to interact  with other  people , express ideas , introduce others to different cultures and backgrounds , use goods and services , sell and buy online , research and learn about things , along with experiencing the world without having to leave home .
the संस्थानों , linkages  and technologies that emerged or were redefined earlier would subsequently in this decade benefit many countries , in particular China and India .
However , in other parts of the world such progress failed to address ongoing struggles with  आधुनिकता , सबसे notably characterized by  the rise of al-Qaeda and other Islamist groups .
The September 11 attacks in 2001 led to  the संयुक्त राज्य  , United Kingdom , Spain , Canada and other nations invading Afghanistan , as well as implementing various anti-terrorist measures at home and abroad in what was known as the War on Terror .
The European Union saw  further संयोजन और  expansion throughout much of Europe .
The economic growth of the 2000s had  considerable पर्यावरणीय  consequences , raised demand for diminishing energy resources , and was still shown to be vulnerable as demonstrated during the Global Financial Crisis of the late 2000s .
the gunfight at the o.k . corral थी a gunfight कि took प्लेस at परिचय 3:00 p.m. on बुधवार , अक्तूबर 26 , 1881 , in tombstone , एरिज़ोना territory , और is generally regarded as the सबसे प्रसिद्ध gunfight in the इतिहास of the अमरीकी  Old West .
The gunfight , believed to have lasted only about thirty seconds , was fought between the outlaw Cowboys Billy Claiborne , Ike and Billy Clanton , and Tom and Frank McLaury , and the opposing town Marshal Virgil Earp and his brothers Assistant Town  मार्शल मॉर्गन और अस्थाई lawman व्याट , aided by दस्तावेज़ हॉलिडे designated as a अस्थाई मार्शल  by Virgil .
Ike  clanton और बिली claiborne  ran from the fight unharmed , but Ike 's brother Billy Clanton was killed , along with both McLaurys .
Lawmen Virgil and Morgan Earp and Doc  हॉलिडे यहूद  wounded .
Only Wyatt Earp  आए through  the fight unharmed .
The fight has come to represent a time in American history when the frontier was open range  लिये outlaws opposed by विधि प्रवर्तन  that was spread thin over vast territories , leaving some areas unprotected .
The gunfight was not well known to the American public until 1931 when author Stuart Lake published what has since been determined to be a largely fictionalized biography , Wyatt Earp : Frontier Marshal  ,  two years after Earp 's death .
झील retold  his story in a 1946 book that director John Ford developed into the movie My Darling Clementine .
After the movie  gunfight at the o.k . corral  was released in 1957 , the shootout came to be known by that name .
Since then , the conflict has been portrayed with varying degrees of  सटीकता in numerous  Western films and books .
Despite its name , the gunfight  दरअसल occurred in  a narrow lot six doors west of the rear entrance to the O.K . Corral on Fremont Street , and also in the street .
The two opposing  पार्टियों  were initially only about apart .
About thirty shots were fired in  तीस सेकेंड .
Ike Clanton filed murder charges against the Earps and Doc Holliday  लकिन वे  were eventually exonerated by a local judge after a 30-day preliminary hearing and then again by a local grand jury .
On December 28 , 1881 , Virgil Earp was maimed in an assassination attempt by the outlaw Cowboys ,  और on कूच 18 , 1882  , they assassinated Morgan Earp .
The suspects furnished solid alibis , and newly appointed Deputy U.S . Marshal Wyatt Earp took matters into his own hands during the Earp Vendetta Ride , ironically pursued by county Sheriff  जॉनी behan साथ वारंट लिये the earp  's arrest .
HDMI ( High-Definition   Multimedia Interface ) is a compact audio/video interface for transferring uncompressed video data and compressed/uncompressed digital audio data from a HDMI-compliant device ( `` the source device '' ) to a compatible computer monitor , video projector , digital television , or digital audio device .
HDMI is a digital replacement for  मौजूदा एनालॉग  video standards .
There are a number of HDMI-standard cable connectors available , each of which can be used for any uncompressed TV or PC video format ,  सहित मानक , उन्नत , ऊँची परिभाषा  , and 3D video signals ; up to 8 channels of compressed or uncompressed digital audio ; a CEC ( Consumer Electronics Control ) connection ; and an Ethernet data connection .
HDMI implements the EIA/CEA-861 standards , which define video formats and waveforms , transport of compressed , uncompressed , and LPCM audio ,  auxiliary आंकड़ा , और implementations  of the VESA EDID .
The CEC allows HDMI devices to control each other when necessary and allows the user to  operate अनेक डिवाइस साथ एक  remote control handset .
Because HDMI is electrically compatible with  the cea-861 सिग्नल प्रयुक्त by डिजिटल  visual interface ( DVI ) , no signal conversion is necessary , nor is there a loss of video quality when a DVI-to-HDMI adapter is used .
As an uncompressed CEA-861 connection , HDMI is independent of the  विभिन्न डिजिटल टेलीविज़न मानकों प्रयुक्त by व्यक्तिगत डिवाइस , ऐसे as atsc और dvb  , as these are encapsulations of compressed MPEG video streams ( which can be decoded and output as an uncompressed video stream on HDMI ) .
Production of consumer HDMI products  प्रारंभ in लेट  2003 .
in यूरोपीय either dvi-hdcp or hdmi is शामिल in the hd तैयार in-store labeling specification लिये tv सेट लिये hdtv , प्रतिपादित by eicta साथ ses अस्त्र in 2005  .
HDMI began to appear on consumer HDTV camcorders and digital still cameras  in 2006  .
As of January 8 , 2013 , which is ten years after  the  release of the first HDMI specification , over 3 billion HDMI devices have shipped since the launch of the HDMI standard .
Bree Van de Kamp ( née Mason ; also known in the series as Bree Hodge and Bree  वेस्टन ) is  a fictional character and one of the four protagonists on the ABC television series Desperate Housewives .
She is played by actress Marcia Cross , who has received multiple awards and nominations for her portrayal , including an Emmy Award nomination , three Golden Globe Award nominations , and  दो स्क्रीन अभिनेताओं गिल्ड  Awards .
Cross 's portrayal of Bree has been widely praised by  आलोचकों और प्रशंसक  .
क्रॉस  originally auditioned for the role of Mary Alice Young , but series creator Marc Cherry thought she was better suited for the role of Bree .
Dana Delany , who eventually was cast as Katherine Mayfair , was originally chosen for the role but turned it  bas , saying it थी too समान  to her role in Pasadena .
Bree 's main struggle throughout the series has been her attempts to maintain a perfect life despite various obstacles such as widowhood ,  तलाक , और alcoholism  hindering her .
वो रै महरूम शादीशुदा तीन टाइम्स ; to रेक्स वैन de kamp ( स्टीवन culp ) , orson होज ( काइल maclachlan ) और ट्रिप वेस्टन ( स्कॉट bakula )  .
देखिए भी the कस्बा  of Algoma in Winnebago County , Wisconsin .
देखिए भी algoma  ( Disambiguation ) .
Algoma is a city in Kewaunee County in the U.S. state  of विस्कॉन्सिन  .
The population  थी 3,167 at  the 2010 census .
Algoma is part of the Green Bay  महानगर सांख्यिकीय  Area .
The Hangover Part II is a 2011 American comedy  फिल्मी उत्पादित by legendary  Pictures and distributed by Warner Bros. Pictures .
it is the  sequel to 2009 's The Hangover and the second film in The Hangover franchise .
Todd Phillips directed the film in addition to  co-authoring  the script with Craig Mazin , and Scot Armstrong .
The film stars Bradley Cooper , Ed Helms , Zach Galifianakis , Ken Jeong , Jeffrey Tambor , Justin  bartha और  Paul Giamatti .
The Hangover Part II tells the story of Phil , Stu , Alan , and Doug as they travel to Thailand for Stu 's   wedding .
After the  स्नातक पार्टी  in Las Vegas , Stu takes no chances and opts for a safe , subdued pre-wedding brunch .
However , things do not go as planned , resulting in another bad hangover with no memories of  the पिछला  night .
Development of The Hangover Part II began  in  April 2009 , two months before The Hangover was released .
The principal actors were cast in March 2010 to  reprise उनके भूमिकाएँ  from the first film .
Production began in October 2010 , in Ontario , California ,  पहले चलती on  location in Thailand .
The film was released on May 26 , 2011 and , despite  receiving ज़्यादातर ऋणात्मक  reviews from critics , it became the highest-grossing R-rated comedy during its theatrical run .
A  तीसरा फिल्मी is नियत  for on May 24 , 2013 .
Young Man Among Roses ,  पोर्ट्रेट  miniature by Nicholas Hilliard , 1588 , V & A .
believed  to be the Earl of Essex
The Ditchley Portrait of Elizabeth I by  the विदेशी  Marcus Gheeraerts the Younger , c.1592
The English Renaissance was a cultural and artistic  गति  in England dating from the late 15th and early 16th centuries to the early 17th century .
It is associated with  the pan-european पुनर्जागरण  that is usually regarded as beginning in Italy in the late 14th century .
Like most of northern Europe , England saw little  of ये developments जबतक  more than a century later .
The beginning of the English Renaissance is often taken , as a convenience , to be 1485 , when the Battle of Bosworth Field  ended  the Wars of the Roses and inaugurated the Tudor Dynasty .
Renaissance style and ideas , however , were slow in penetrating England , and the Elizabethan era in the second half of  the  16th century is usually regarded as the height of the English Renaissance .
Elizabeth Ann Bloomer Warren `` Betty '' Ford ( April 8 , 1918  – जुलाई 8 , 2011 ) , थी पहला महिला of  the United States from 1974 to 1977 during the presidency of her husband Gerald Ford .
As First Lady , she was active in  सोशल नीति  and created precedents as a politically active presidential wife .
Throughout her husband 's term in office , she  कायम  high approval ratings despite opposition from some conservative Republicans who objected to her more moderate and liberal positions on social issues .
Ford was noted for raising breast cancer awareness following her 1974 mastectomy and was a passionate supporter  of , और activist लिये , the  Equal Rights Amendment ( ERA ) .
Pro-choice on abortion and a leader in the Women 's Movement , she gained fame  as एक of the सबसे निष्कपट पहला महिलाओं in इतिहास ,  commenting on every hot-button issue of the time , including feminism , equal pay , the ERA , sex , drugs , abortion , and gun control .
She also raised awareness of addiction when she announced her long-running  बैटल साथ  alcoholism in the 1970s .
following उसके श्वेत  House years , she continued to lobby for the ERA and remained active in the feminist movement .
She was the founder , and served as the first chair of the board of directors , of the Betty Ford Center for substance abuse and addiction and is a recipient of the  congressional सुनहरा पदक ( co-presentation साथ उसके husband , जेराल्ड R. घाट , अक्तूबर  21 , 1998 ) and the Presidential Medal of Freedom ( alone , presented 1991 , by George H. W. Bush ) .
Platelet endothelial cell adhesion molecule ( PECAM-1 ) also known as cluster of differentiation 31 ( CD31 ) is a  प्रोटीन कि in इंसान is एनकोडेड by the pecam1  gene found on chromosome 17 .
PECAM-1 plays a key role in  निकालना aged  neutrophils from the body .
Jessica   Rafalowski , Miss Florida USA 2008
Jenna Edwards ,  मिस फ्लोरिडा  USA 2007
मेलिसा witek  , Miss Florida USA 2005
क्रिस्टन berset ,  Miss Florida USA 2004
The Miss Florida USA  प्रतियोगिता is the  pageant that selects the representative for the state Florida in the Miss USA pageant .
While Florida has been successful in terms of  runners-up , finalists और semi-finalists , the राज्य  has never won the Miss USA pageant , although Cheryl Patton became Miss USA after Sylvia Hitchcock won Miss Universe .
Florida 's best results were during  the  mid-1960s to mid-1970s .
Their most  हाल  finalist was Lissette Garcia who placed in the top 16 in 2011 .
Two former  Miss Florida  Teen USA titleholders have won this competition , and three titleholders have also competed at Miss America .
the वर्तमान titleholder is मिशेल aguirre of hialeah .
Anglo-Saxon England refers to the period of the history of the part of Britain that became known as England , lasting from the end  of रोमन occupation और स्थापना  of Anglo-Saxon kingdoms in the 5th century until the Norman conquest of England in 1066 by William the Conqueror .
Anglo-Saxon is a general term referring to the Germanic peoples who came to Britain during the 5th and 6th centuries ,  सहित कोण , saxons  , Frisii , and Jutes .
The term also refers to the  भाषा बोला at the  time in England , which is now called Old English , and to the culture of the era , which has long attracted popular and scholarly attention .
Until the 9th century Anglo-Saxon England was dominated by the Heptarchy , the kingdoms of Northumbria , Mercia , East Anglia , Essex , Kent ,  ससेक्स , और  Wessex .
In terms of religion the kingdoms followed Anglo-Saxon paganism during the early  काल , लकिन परिवर्तित to christianity दौरान  the 7th century .
Paganism had a final stronghold in a period of Mercian  आधिपत्य दौरान the 640s  , ending with the death of Penda of Mercia in 655 .
Facing the threat of  viking invasions , the हाउस of  Wessex became dominant during the 9th century , under the rule of Alfred the Great .
During the 10th century , the individual kingdoms unified under  the नियम of wessex into the किंगडम  of England , which stood opposed to the Danelaw , the Viking kingdoms established from the 9th century in the north and east of England .
The Kingdom of England fell  in the viking आक्रमण इससे डेनमार्क in  1013 and was ruled by the House of Denmark until 1042 , when the Anglo-Saxon House of Wessex was restored .
The last Anglo-Saxon king , Harold Godwinson ,  थी  killed in 1066 at the Battle of Hastings .
Lighting a traditional  रेड ईंटों जॉन  Ross Jr kiln
Smoked salmon is a   preparation of salmon , typically a fillet that has been cured and hot or cold smoked .
Due  to इसके मध्यम  high price , smoked salmon is considered a delicacy .
Although the  पद lox  is sometimes applied to smoked salmon , they are different products .
View of  defibrillator एलेक्ट्रोड  position and placement .
Defibrillation is a common treatment for life-threatening cardiac dysrhythmias ,  ventricular fibrillation ,  and pulseless ventricular tachycardia .
Defibrillation consists of delivering a therapeutic dose of electrical  उर्जा  to the affected heart with a device called a defibrillator .
This  depolarizes  a critical mass of the heart muscle , terminates the dysrhythmia , and allows normal sinus rhythm to be reestablished by the body 's natural pacemaker , in the sinoatrial node of the heart .
Defibrillators   can be external , transvenous , or implanted , depending on the type of device used or needed .
Some external units , known as automated external defibrillators ( AEDs ) , automate the diagnosis of treatable rhythms ,  अर्थ कि lay responders or bystanders हैं  able to use them successfully with little , or in some cases no training at all .
gabrielle `` कोको '' bonheur  Chanel ( August 19 , 1883 – January 10 , 1971 ) was a French fashion designer and founder of the Chanel brand .
She was the only fashion  पंक्तियां to  appear on Time magazine 's list of the 100 most influential people of the 20th century .
Along with Paul Poiret , Chanel was credited with  liberating महिलाओं इससे the constraints  of the `` corseted silhouette '' and popularizing the acceptance of a sportive , casual chic as the feminine standard in the post- World War I era .
A prolific  फ़ैशन निर्माता  , Chanel 's influence extended beyond couture clothing .
Her design aesthetic was  एहसास  in jewelry , handbags , and fragrance .
Her  हस्ताक्षर  scent , Chanel No . 5 , has become an iconic product .
Chanel was known for her lifelong determination , ambition and energy  जिससे वो लागू to  her professional and social life .
She achieved both success as a businesswoman and social prominence thanks to the connections she made   through her work .
These included many artists and craftspeople to whom  वो became  a patron .
However , Chanel 's highly competitive , opportunistic personality led  उसके to मेक questionable जीवन चुनाव जिससे have उत्पन्न  controversy around her reputation , particularly her behaviour during the German occupation of France in World War II .
Allied Mills flour mill on the banks of the  मैनचेस्टर  Ship Canal
A gristmill ( also : grist mill , corn mill or flour mill  ) grinds अनाज into आटा  .
The term can refer to both the grinding mechanism and the  भवन कि holds  it .
Romania ( ; dated spellings Roumania and Rumania ; ) is a country located at the intersection of  सेंट्रल और southeastern यूरोपीय ,  bordering on the Black Sea .
Romania shares a border with Hungary and  सर्बिया to the वेस्ट , युक्त और moldova  to the northeast and east , and Bulgaria to the south .
At , Romania is the eighth largest country of the European Union by area , and has the  सातवाँ largest जनसांख्यिकी  of the European Union with more than 19 million people .
Its capital and biggest city is Bucharest , the 11th  largest नगर  in the EU .
The United Principalities emerged when the territories of  moldavia और wallachia यहूद संयुक्त  under Prince Alexander Ioan Cuza in 1859 .
In 1866 Prince Karl of Hohenzollern-Sigmaringen was called to the throne as the Ruling Prince of the Romanian Principate and in  1881 he थी आखिरकार पहनाया as किंग कैरोल i the  first monarch of the Kingdom of Romania .
Independence from the Ottoman Empire was declared on 9 May 1877  , और थी internationally  recognized the following year .
At the  समाप्त of संसार  War I , Transylvania , Bukovina and Bessarabia united with the Kingdom of Romania .
World War II gave cause to the rise of a military dictatorship in Romania under fascist General Ion Antonescu  ,  who chose to fight on the side of the Axis powers from 1941 to 1944 .
After his removal , Romania switched sides in  1944  and joined the Allies .
By the end of the war , some formerly Romanian northeastern territories were occupied by the Soviet Union , with Red Army units stationed  on  Romanian soil .
In 1947 Romania forcibly became a People 's  गणतंत्र ( 1947-1965 )  and a member of the Warsaw Pact .
In 1965 Nicolae Ceauşescu became General Secretary of the Romanian Communist Party , and the harsh austerity measures , political repression , and cult of personality he implemented led to the Socialist Republic of Romania ( 1965-1989 ) becoming  the सबसे stalinist पुलिस राज्य  in the Eastern bloc .
Eventually his authoritarian government was  toppled in दिसम्बर 1989 दौरान  the Romanian Revolution of 1989 .
With the fall of the Iron Curtain , Romania began its transition  towards लोकतंत्र  and a capitalist market economy .
After a decade of  post-revolution  economic problems and living-standards decline , extensive reforms fostered economic recovery .
As of 2010 , Romania  is an upper-middle-income  country with a high human development index .
Romania joined  नाटो on  29 March 2004 , and the European Union on 1 January 2007 .
It is also a member of the : Latin Union  ,  Francophonie , OSCE , WTO , BSEC , United Nations , etc .
आज , रोमानिया is a एकात्मक semi-presidential  republic , in which the executive branch consists of the President and the Government .
`` Ancient '' redirects  यहाँ  .
For other uses , see Antiquity ( disambiguation )  .
The times before  लिखने belong  either to protohistory or to prehistory .
Khafre  's पिरामिड (  4th dynasty ) and Great Sphinx of Giza ( c. 2500 BC or perhaps earlier )
Ancient history is the study of the written past  from the  beginning of recorded human history to the Early Middle Ages .
The span of recorded history is roughly 5,000 years ,  साथ cuneiform स्क्रिप्ट , the oldest खोजा  form of coherent writing , from the protoliterate period around the 30th century BC .
This is the beginning of history , as opposed to  प्रागितिहास , according to the  definition used by most historians .
The term classical antiquity is often used to refer to history in the Old World  from the  beginning of recorded Greek history in 776 BC ( First Olympiad ) .
This roughly coincides with the traditional  तिथि of the founding  of Rome in 753 BC , the beginning of the history of ancient Rome , and the beginning of the Archaic period in Ancient Greece .
Although the ending date of ancient history is disputed , some Western scholars use the fall of  the पश्चिमी रोमन साम्राज्य in 476 ad , the closure of the  Platonic Academy in 529 AD , the death of the emperor Justinian I , the coming of Islam or the rise of Charlemagne as the end of ancient and Classical European history .
In India , the period includes the early period of the Middle Kingdoms , and , in China , the time up  to the qin राजवंश  is included .
Methylcobalamin ( shown )  is a रूप of  vitamin B12 .
Physically it resembles the other forms of   vitamin B12 , occurring as dark red crystals that freely form cherry-colored transparent solutions in water .
Vitamin B12 , vitamin B12 or vitamin B-12 , also called cobalamin , is a water-soluble vitamin with a key role in the normal  कामकाज of the दिमाग और बेचैन प्रणाली  , and for the formation of blood .
It is  एक of  the eight B vitamins .
It is normally involved in the metabolism of every cell of the human body , especially affecting DNA synthesis  and regulation , but also  fatty acid synthesis and energy production .
Neither  fungi , पौधे  , nor animals are capable of producing vitamin B12 .
Only bacteria and  आर्किया have the  enzymes required for its synthesis , although many foods are a natural source of B12 because of bacterial symbiosis .
The vitamin  is the largest और  most structurally complicated vitamin and can be produced industrially only through bacterial fermentation-synthesis .
Vitamin  b12 consists of a क्लास of chemically  related compounds ( vitamers ) , all of which have vitamin activity .
It contains the  biochemically  rare element cobalt .
Biosynthesis of the basic structure of the vitamin is accomplished only by bacteria ( which usually  उपज hydroxocobalamin ) ,  but conversion between different forms of the vitamin can be accomplished in the human body .
A common semi-synthetic form of the vitamin , cyanocobalamin , does not occur in nature , but is  उत्पादित इससे बैक्टीरियल  hydroxocobalamin and then used in many pharmaceuticals and supplements , and as a food additive , because of its stability and lower production cost .
In the body  it is परिवर्तित  to the human physiological forms methylcobalamin and adenosylcobalamin , leaving behind the cyanide , albeit in minimal concentration .
More  recently , hydroxocobalamin , methylcobalamin  , and adenosylcobalamin can be found in more expensive pharmacological products and food supplements .
The  अतिरिक्त यूटिलिटी  of these is currently debated .
Vitamin B12 was discovered from its relationship to the disease pernicious anemia , which is an autoimmune disease  in जिससे parietal  cells of the stomach responsible for secreting intrinsic factor are destroyed .
Intrinsic factor is crucial for the normal absorption of B12 , so a lack of intrinsic factor  , as देखी in घातक रक्ताल्पता  , causes a vitamin B12 deficiency .
Many other subtler kinds of vitamin B12 deficiency and their biochemical  प्रभाव have चूंकि महरूम  elucidated .
The Roman Empire ( ) was the post- Republican period of the ancient Roman civilization ,  characterised by an निरंकुश रूप  of government and large territorial holdings around the Mediterranean in Europe , Africa , and Asia .
The 500-year-old  रोमन गणतंत्र , जिससे  preceded it , had been destabilized through a series of civil wars .
Several events marked the transition from Republic to Empire , including Julius Caesar 's appointment as perpetual dictator ( 44 BC )  ; the बैटल of actium ( 31 bc ) ; और the granting of the honorific  Augustus to Octavian by the Roman Senate ( 27 BC ) .
the पहला दो  centuries of the Empire were a period of unprecedented stability and prosperity known as the Pax Romana ( `` Roman Peace '' ) .
It reached its greatest expanse during the  शासनकाल  of Trajan ( 98–117 AD ) .
In the 3rd century , the Empire underwent a crisis that threatened its existence , but was reunified and stabilized under the emperors Aurelian and   Diocletian .
Christians rose to power in the 4th century , during which time a system of dual rule was developed in the Latin  West  and Greek East .
After the collapse of central government in the West in the 5th century , the eastern half continued as what would later  be ज्ञात as the  Byzantine Empire .
Because of the Empire 's vast extent and long endurance , the institutions and culture of  रोम था a profound और स्थायी influence  on the development of language , religion , architecture , philosophy , law , and forms of government in the territory it governed , particularly Europe , and by means of European expansionism throughout the modern world .
Total body surface area ( TBSA ) is an  मूल्यांकन माप of burns  of the skin .
In  वयस्कों , the `` नियम of nines '' is प्रयुक्त  to determine the total percentage of area burned for each major section of the body .
In some cases , the  burns may कवर अधिक than एक देह भाग , or may नहीं fully कवर  such a part ; in these cases , burns are measured by using the casualty 's palm as a reference point for 1 % of the body .
For children and infants , the  lund-browder चार्ट is  used to assess the burned body surface area .
Different  percentages हैं प्रयुक्त क्युकी the अनुपात  of the combined surface area of the head and neck to the surface area of the limbs is typically larger in children than that of an adult .
Typical values for common groups of humans  follow  .
( Due to rounding ,  मान  may not add to 100 % . )
World infant  मृत्यु दरों  by five years averages in 2008 .
This is a list  of देशों  by infant mortality rate .
Jonah Kirsten Sorrentino ( born June 26 , 1975 ) ,  बेहतर ज्ञात by उसके स्टेज  name KJ-52 , is a Christian rapper from Tampa , Florida .
The `` KJ '' part of his name refers to his old rap alias , ``  किंग J. मैक , ''  a name which he later described in one of his podcasts as `` horribly cheesy . ''
`` 52 '' , which is pronounced `` five two '' , not `` fifty-two '' , is a reference to the Biblical story of Jesus feeding the multitude with five loaves and two fish , which is also sung about in his song ``  धक्का up '' इससे the yearbook और in the `` kj पाँच दो  '' on It 's Pronounced 'Five Two .
He was awarded the Rap/Hip Hop  अंकित सोंग of the  Year for `` Never Look Away '' and Rap/Hip Hop Album of the Year at the GMA Dove Awards of 2007 .
On July 28 , 2009 , KJ-52  released `` समाप्त of  My Rope '' , which is the first single for his album Five-Two Television .
His song `` Dear Slim ''  is आधारित on एमिनेम  's song `` Stan `` and is a sort of personal message from KJ-52 to Eminem .
the उपाधि प्रतीक ( ° ) is a typographical प्रतीक कि is प्रयुक्त  , among other things , to represent degrees of arc ( e.g . in geographic coordinate systems ) , hours ( in the medical field ) , or degrees of temperature .
The symbol  consists  of a small raised circle , historically a zero glyph .
In  युनिकोड  it is encoded at .
This is a list of roots , suffixes , and prefixes used in medical terminology ,  उनके meanings  , and their etymology .
There are a few rules when using medical  जड़ें  .
Firstly ,  prefixes  and suffixes , primarily in Greek , but also in Latin , have a droppable -o- .
As a general rule , this -o- almost always acts as a joint-stem to connect two consonantal roots , e.g . arthr- + -o- + logy   = arthrology .
But generally , the -o- is dropped when connecting to a vowel-stem ; e.g . arthr- +  itis = गठिया  , instead of arthr-o-itis .
Secondly , medical roots generally go together according to language :  यूनानी prefixes go साथ यूनानी प्रत्यय  and Latin prefixes with Latin suffixes .
Although international scientific vocabulary is not stringent about segregating combining forms of different  भाषाएं , it is  advisable when coining new words not to mix different lingual roots .
Stomach cancer , or gastric  कर्कट , refers to कर्कट arising इससे  any part of the stomach .
Stomach cancer causes about 800,000 deaths worldwide per  साल  .
Prognosis is poor ( 5-year survival <  5 to 15  % ) because most patients present with advanced disease .
Sara Lynn Evans (  born फ़रवरी 5 , 1971  ) is an American country singer and songwriter .
For her entire career , she has been signed  to आरसीए रिकॉर्ड  Nashville .
Evans ' debut , Three Chords and the Truth , did not produce a Top 40 hit on the Hot  देश गीतों  charts .
She followed this up with No Place  कि दूर ( 1998 ) , born  to Fly ( 2000 ) , Restless ( 2003 ) and Real Fine Place ( 2005 ) .
No Place That Far received a gold certification from the Recording  उद्योग संघ of अमेरिका  ( RIAA ) , while the other three albums all were certified platinum .
These discs include the number 1 singles `` No Place That Far `` , `` Born to Fly `` , `` Suds in the  बाल्टी `` और `` a रियल ठीक प्लेस to प्रारंभ ``  , plus the top 10 hits `` I Could Not Ask for More `` ( a cover of the Edwin McCain song ) , `` I Keep Looking `` , `` Perfect `` and `` Cheatin ' `` .
Her 2007 Greatest Hits included the top 15 hits `` You  'll सदा be  My Baby `` and `` As If `` .
Stronger ( 2011 ) included her fifth number 1 hit , `` A Little Bit Stronger `` , which was co-written  by हिलेरी स्कॉट of महिला antebellum  .
Evans has also won one award each from Billboard , the Academy of Country Music , Country Music  संघ , ब्रॉडकास्ट म्यूज़िक incorporated  ( BMI ) and a Dove Award .
The  world  's principal religions and spiritual traditions may be classified into a small number of major groups , although this is by no means a uniform practice .
This theory began in the 18th century with the goal of recognizing the relative levels of  civility  in societies .
Berliners watching a  c-54 जमीन  at Tempelhof Airport ( 1948 )
The Berlin  नाकेबंदी ( 24 जून 1948 – 12 may 1949 ) थी एक  of the first major international crises of the Cold War .
During the multinational occupation of post–World War II Germany , the Soviet Union blocked the Western Allies ' railway , road , and canal access to  the सेक्टर  of Berlin under Allied control .
Their aim was to force the western powers to allow the Soviet zone to start supplying Berlin  with  food and fuel , thereby giving the Soviets practical control over the entire city .
In response , the Western Allies organized the Berlin airlift to carry supplies to the people in  वेस्ट  Berlin .
Aircrews  इससे  the United States Air Force , the British Royal Air Force , the Royal Australian Air Force , the Royal Canadian Air Force , the Royal New Zealand Air Force , and the South African Air Force flew over 200,000 flights in one year , providing up to 4700 tons of daily necessities such as fuel and food to the Berliners .
By the spring of 1949 , the effort was  clearly  succeeding and , by April , the airlift was delivering more cargo than had previously been transported into the city by rail .
The success of the Berlin Airlift brought embarrassment to the Soviets who had refused to believe  it could मेक a अंतर  .
The blockade  थी lifted  in May 1949 and resulted in the creation of two separate German states .
The Federal Republic of Germany ( West Germany ) and the German Democratic  गणतंत्र ( ईस्ट जर्मनी  ) split up Berlin .
In remembrance of the airlift , three airports  in  the former western zones of the city served as the primary gateways to Germany for another fifty years .
The euro sign ;  logotype  and handwritten .
The euro  चिह्न is the करेंसी चिह्न  used for the euro , the official currency of the Eurozone in the European Union ( EU ) .
The design was presented to the public by  the यूरोपीय आयोग  on 12 December 1996 .
The international  three-letter कोड ( according to आईएसओ मानक  ISO 4217 ) for the euro is EUR .
In Unicode it is  एनकोडेड  at .
In English , the  चिह्न precedes  the value .
In some  styleguides  , but not others , the euro sign is unspaced .
Mate ( , ; sometimes also spelled maté ) , also known as chimarrão ( ) or cimarrón ( ) , is a traditional South American infused drink , particularly in Argentina , Uruguay , Paraguay and the southern states of Brazil and to  a lesser उपाधि in दक्षिण of चिली ,  the Bolivian Chaco , Syria and Lebanon .
It is prepared from steeping dried leaves of yerba mate ( llex paraguariensis ,  ज्ञात in पुर्तगाली  as erva-mate ) in hot water .
Mate is served with a metal straw from a shared hollow  calabash  gourd .
The straw is called a bombilla in some Latin American countries , a bomba in  पुर्तगाली , और  a bombija or , more generally , a masassa ( type of straw ) in Arabic .
The straw is  traditionally  made of silver .
Modern , commercially available straws are typically made of nickel  चांदी , पुकारा alpaca  ; stainless steel , or hollow-stemmed cane .
The gourd is known as a mate  or a guampa ; जबकि in ब्राज़ील ,  it has the specific name of cuia , or also cabaça ( the name for Indigenous-influenced calabash gourds in other regions of Brazil , still used for general food and drink in remote regions ) .
Even if the water is supplied from a modern thermos  , the infusion  is traditionally drunk from mates or cuias .
As with other brewed  herbs ,  yerba mate leaves are dried , chopped , and ground into a powdery mixture called yerba .
The  bombilla अधिनियमों  as both a straw and a sieve .
The submerged end is flared , with  छोटी छेद or स्लॉट कि  allow the brewed liquid in , but block the chunky matter that makes up much of the mixture .
A  आधुनिक bombilla  design uses a straight tube with holes , or spring sleeve to act as a sieve .
`` Tea-bag '' type infusions  of mate ( mate  cocido ) have been on the market in Argentina , Paraguay and Uruguay for many years under such trade names as `` Taragüí Vitality '' in Argentina , `` Pajarito '' and `` Kurupí '' in Paraguay , and in Brazil under the name `` Mate Leão '' .
This is  माना  a completely different drink .
It is never drunk from cuias or called  chimarrão ,  nor is it associated with the gaucho/gaúcho culture .
The automotive industry is a term that  कवर  a wide range of companies and organisations involved in the design , development , manufacture , marketing , and selling of motor vehicles , towed vehicles , motorcycles and mopeds .
It is one of the  संसार 's सबसे  important economic sectors by revenue .
The term automotive industry usually does not include industries dedicated to  the मेंटेनेंस of ऑटोमोबाइल following  delivery to the end-user , such as repair shops and motor fuel filling stations .
The term automotive was created from Greek autos ( self ) , and Latin   motivus ( of motion ) to represent any form of self-powered vehicle .
This term  थी  proposed by SAE member Elmer Sperry .
David  माइकल `` डेव ''  Bautista , Jr. ( born January 18 , 1969 ) , is an American mixed martial artist , bodybuilder , actor , and former professional wrestler best known for his time in World Wrestling Entertainment competing under the ring name Batista .
In WWE , he became  a six-time  world champion , winning the World Heavyweight Championship four times , and the WWE Championship two times .
He is  the longest-reigning  World Heavyweight Champion in WWE history .
In addition to these championships , Batista has won the World Tag Team Championship three times ( twice with Ric Flair and once with John Cena ) and the WWE Tag  टोली चैंपियनशिप एकबार ( साथ rey  Mysterio ) .
Batista was also the  विजेता of the 2005 royal rumble  match and went on to headline WrestleMania 21 , one of the top five highest-grossing pay-per-view events in pro wrestling history .
After trying out at World Championship Wrestling 's  शक्ति संयंत्र , बतिस्ता हस्ताक्षरित a  contract with the WWF in 2000 and was sent to its developmental territory , Ohio Valley Wrestling ( OVW ) , where he won the OVW Heavyweight Championship .
in अगस्त 2012 , bautista  signed a contract with Classic Entertainment & Sports to fight in mixed martial arts .
He won his MMA debut on October 6 , 2012 , defeating Vince Lucero via TKO in the first  गोलाकार  .
Henry T. Thomas Sampson , Jr. ( born in  जैक्सन , मिसिसिपी  in 1934 ) is an African-American inventor .
He  ग्रैजुएट इससे  high school in 1951 from Lanier High School in Jackson , Mississippi .
He then attended Morehouse College for a couple of years before transferring to Purdue University where he became a  सदस्य of the ओमेगा psi फाई बिरादरी  .
He received a Bachelor 's degree in science from Purdue  विश्वविद्यालयों  in 1956 .
He graduated with an MS degree  in अभियान्त्रिकी इससे  the University of California , Los Angeles in 1961 .
Sampson also received his MS in Nuclear Engineering from the University of Illinois  urbana-champaign in  1965 , and his PhD in 1967 .
He is the first African American to earn a  ph.d.in नाभिकीय  Engineering in the United States .
Some of his accomplishments include being a member of the United States Navy between the years 1962 and 1964 and  कमाई an परमाणु उर्जा  Commission honor between 1964 and 1967 .
बाद he थी awarded  the Black Image Award from Aerospace Corporation in 1982 .
He was awarded the Blacks in  अभियान्त्रिकी , लागू विज्ञान  Award , and prize for education , by the Los Angeles Council of Black Professional Engineers in 1983 .
In June 2007 , Sampson was married to Laura Howzell Young in St. Thomas ,  u.S.  Virgin Islands .
Young-Sampson is a professor in the College of Education at  कैलिफ़ोर्निया राज्य  University San Bernardino .
Robert Lane Gibbs ( born March 29 , 1971 ) is a senior campaign adviser  लिये us अध्यक्ष  Barack Obama .
Previously ,  he थी the  28th White House Press Secretary .
Gibbs was the communications director for then- U.S .   Senator Obama and his 2008 presidential campaign .
Gibbs , who has worked with Obama since 2004 , was press secretary of John Kerry 's 2004  अध्यक्षीय अभियान और रै previously specialized  in Senate campaigns , having served as communications director for the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee and for four individual Senate campaigns , including those of Obama in 2004 and Fritz Hollings in 1998 .
Gibbs was also the press secretary of  प्रतिनिधि  Bob Etheridge .
On November 22 , 2008 , Gibbs was announced as the  दबायें  secretary of the Obama administration .
he assumed the भूमिका of दबायें सचिव on जनवरी 20 , 2009 , और दिया उसके पहला आधिकारिक drug on जनवरी 22 .
On January 5 , 2011 , Gibbs announced  कि  he would leave the White House to become an outside adviser to the administration .
He left on  फ़रवरी  11 , 2011 .
On February 12 , 2013 ,  it थी  announced that Gibbs had been hired as a contributor for cable-news channel MSNBC .
His first appearance was on the  वही रात्रि prior  to the 2013 State Of The Union Address .
Armando Pérez ( born January 15 , 1981 )  , बेहतर ज्ञात  by his stage name Pitbull , is an American rapper , songwriter , and record producer .
His first recorded  प्रदर्शन  was from the Lil Jon album Kings of Crunk in 2002 .
In 2004 , he released his debut album titled M.I.A.M.I . ( short for Money  is  A Major Issue ) under TVT Records .
Since  तब , he रै released तीन  other albums under the label : El Mariel in 2006 , The Boatlift in 2007 , and Planet Pit in 2011 .
he released rebelution in 2009 , जिससे शामिल singles `` i जान तुम want me ( calle ocho ) `` और `` krazy `` .
The latter peaked at No . 30 on the Hot 100 and No . 11 on the  hot  Rap Tracks charts while `` I Know You Want Me '' peaked at No . 2 on the Hot 100 and peaked within the top ten spots of charts in the UK , Canada , Italy , and the Netherlands .
The song reached No . 1 in France and the European Hot 100 on  the सप्ताह समाप्ति  August 29 , 2009 according to Billboard magazine .
He later signed with Polo Grounds Music through Sony Music and created his own label Mr.  305 inc  .
Another single from Rebelution was `` Hotel Room Service `` , which  peaked at  No . 8 on the Hot 100 .
rebelution गई  on to sell over 7.5 million worldwide digital singles and albums combined .
Nevertheless , he dropped a smash called `` Give Me  सबकुछ '' जिससे पहुँचे # 1 विश्वव्यापी  , and featured artists Ne-yo , Nayer , and Afrojack .
He has also performed as a featured artist in the remixes of many  other  hit songs , like Tik Tok , Scream & Shout , Lo Hecho Esta Hecho , Bad , Papi , Diamonds , How Low , Tonight ( I 'm Lovin ' You ) , Video Phone , Over To You Now and Bumpy Ride .
Pérez is also the host of his own Spanish-language program on the cable channel Mun2 titled La  esquina  ( Spanish for The Corner ) .
In 2005 Pérez and rapper Sean   'Diddy ' Combs co-founded Bad Boy Latino , a subsidiary of Combs ' Bad Boy Records label .
It   primarily focuses on Latin hip hop , Latin soul , Latin pop and other Tropical music , and has offices in New York and Miami , Florida .
Along with  co-founding  it , Pérez currently heads the A & R division of the label .
Pérez has become a product endorser , representing alongside Drake , Rihanna , and Trey Songz the “So Kodak” campaign for the Kodak brand and embarking on a partnership with the soft drink giant Dr Pepper as  भाग of the अभियान “  Vida 23 ” for which he recorded the song specifically featured on his album Armando .
Pitbull also announced he has become the spokesperson for Voli Vodka , in which he holds a majority equity stake , and Budweiser has chosen Pitbull to promote its  कली लाइट  line of beer .
The commercials currently highlight Pitbull  नाचना और  gyrating on stage holding up a bottle of Bud Light .
Pitbull has also purchased an equity stake in Miami Subs  पिज़्ज़ा  and Grill .
Halloween or  hallowe'en (  a contraction of `` All Hallows ' Evening `` ) , also known as All Hallows ' Eve , is a yearly celebration observed in a number of countries on October 31 , the eve of the Western Christian feast of All Hallows ( or All Saints ) and the day initiating the triduum of Hallowmas .
According to many scholars , All Hallows ' Eve is a Christianised feast originally influenced by western  यूरोपीय कटाई त्यौहार , और त्यौहार of the मुर्दे साथ  possible pagan roots , particularly the Celtic Samhain .
Other scholars maintain that it originated   independently of Samhain and has solely Christian roots .
Typical festive Halloween activities include trick-or-treating ( also known as `` guising `` ) , attending costume parties , carving   pumpkins into jack-o'-lanterns , lighting bonfires , apple bobbing , visiting haunted attractions , playing pranks , telling scary stories , and watching horror films .
Freedom  of speech is the political  right to communicate one 's opinions and ideas using one 's body and property to anyone who is willing to receive them .
The term freedom of expression is sometimes used synonymously , but includes any act of seeking ,  receiving  and imparting information or ideas , regardless of the medium used .
In practice , the right to freedom of speech is not absolute in any country and the right is commonly  विषय to सीमाएं , as साथ मानहानि , बदनामी ,  obscenity , sedition ( including , for example inciting ethnic hatred ) , copyright violation , revelation of information that is classified or otherwise .
The right to freedom of expression is  पहचाना as a इंसान सही अंतर्गत आलेख 19 of the सार्वभौमिक घोषणा of इंसान अधिकारों  and recognized in international human rights law in the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights ( ICCPR ) .
Article 19 of the ICCPR states that `` [ e ] veryone shall have the right to hold opinions without interference '' and `` everyone shall have the right to freedom of expression ; this right shall include freedom to seek , receive and impart information and ideas of all kinds , regardless of frontiers ,  either orally , in लिखने or in छपाई , in the रूप of आर्ट , or through कोई अन्य मीडिया of उसके  choice '' .
Article 19 goes on to say that the exercise of these rights carries `` special duties and  जिम्मेदारियों `` और may `` इसलिए  be subject to certain restrictions '' when necessary `` [ f ] or respect of the rights or reputation of others '' or `` [ f ] or the protection of national security or of public order ( order public ) , or of public health or morals '' .
Freedom of speech may be legally curtailed in some religious legal systems and in  धर्मनिरपेक्ष jurisdictions जहाँ it is मिला to  cause religious offense , such as the British Racial and Religious Hatred Act 2006 .
Sydney Harbour from the air , showing the  ओपेरा हाउस  , the CBD , Circular Quay , the Bridge , the Parramatta River , North Sydney and Kirribilli in the foreground
The Sydney Harbour Bridge is a steel through arch bridge across Sydney Harbour that carries rail , vehicular , bicycle and pedestrian traffic between  the सिडनी सेंट्रल कारोबार  district ( CBD ) and the North Shore .
The dramatic view of the bridge , the harbour , and the nearby Sydney  ओपेरा हाउस is an iconic  image of Sydney , New South Wales , and Australia .
The  सेतु is nicknamed `` the  Coathanger '' because of its arch-based design .
Under the directions of Dr J.J.C . Bradfield of the NSW Department of Public Works ,  the सेतु थी designed और  built by British firm Dorman Long and Co Ltd of Middlesbrough and opened in 1932 .
The bridge 's design was influenced by the Hell Gate Bridge in  नई  York .
It was the world 's widest long-span bridge , at 48.8 meters ( 160 feet ) wide , until  निर्माण of the नई बंदरगाहों मन सेतु in वैंकूवर  .
It  is भी the पांचवां longest spanning-arch  bridge in the world , and it is the tallest steel arch bridge , measuring from top to water level .
Until 1967 the Harbour Bridge was Sydney 's tallest   structure .
The Hawaii hotspot is a volcanic hotspot  स्तिथ निकट the namesake  Hawaiian Islands , in the northern Pacific Ocean .
One of the most well-known and heavily studied hotspots in the world , the Hawaii plume is responsible for the creation of the Hawaiian – Emperor seamount chain , an over 5,800 kilometres ( 3,600 mi ) long chain of volcanoes , four of which are active , two of which are dormant , and more than 123 of  जिससे हैं विलुप्त  , many having since been ground beneath the waves by erosion as seamounts and atolls .
The chain extends  इससे दक्षिण  of the island of Hawaii to the edge of the Aleutian Trench , near the eastern edge of Russia .
While most volcanoes are created by geological activity at tectonic plate boundaries , the Hawaii hotspot is located far from nearby plate boundaries ; the classic hotspot theory , first proposed in 1963 by John Tuzo  विल्सन , proposes कि a सिंगल , फिक्स्ड mantle plume builds ज्वालामुखी कि  then , cut off from their source by the movement of the Pacific Plate , become increasingly inactive and eventually erode below sea level over millions of years .
According to this theory , the nearly 60° bend separating the Emperor and Hawaiian segments of the chain was caused by  a अचानक शिफ़्ट in the गति of the प्रशांत थाली  .
In 2003 , fresh investigations of this irregularity led to the proposal of a mobile hotspot theory , suggesting that hotspots are mobile ,  नहीं फिक्स्ड , और कि the 47 लाख साल बूढ़ा बेंड थी caused by a शिफ़्ट in the हॉटस्पॉट 's  motion rather than the plate 's .
Ancient Hawaiians were the first to recognize the increasing age and weathered state of the volcanoes to  the उत्तर as वे progressed  on fishing expeditions along the islands .
The  volatile राज्य of the हवाई  volcanoes and their constant battle with the sea was a major element in Hawaiian mythology , embodied in Pele , the deity of volcanoes .
After the arrival  of europeans on  the island , in 1880-1881 James Dwight Dana directed the first formal geological study of the hotspot 's volcanics , confirming the relationship long observed by the natives .
1912 marked the founding of the Hawaiian Volcano Observatory by volcanologist Thomas Jaggar ,  initiating निरन्तर वैज्ञानिक  observation of the islands .
In the 1970s , a mapping project was initiated to gain more  सूचना परिचय the जटिल  geology of Hawaii 's seafloor .
The hotspot has since been  tomographically imaged , प्रर्दशित  it to be wide and up to deep , and olivine and garnet -based studies have shown its magma chamber is approximately .
In its at least 85 million years of activity the hotspot has produced an  अनुमानित of चट्टान .
The chain 's rate of drift has slowly increased over time , causing the amount of time each individual volcano is active to decrease , from 18 million years for the 76  लाख साल बूढ़ा डेट्रॉयट seamount , to बस अंतर्गत 900,000  for the one million year-old Kohala ; on the other hand , eruptive volume has increased from per year to about .
Overall , this has caused a trend towards more active but quickly-silenced , closely spaced  volcanoes—whereas ज्वालामुखी on the  near side of the hotspot overlap each other ( forming such superstructures as Hawaii island and the ancient Maui Nui ) , the oldest of the Emperor seamounts are spaced as far as apart .
David Palmer , director of the show , announced that the season 4 finale is the series finale because  निकलोडियन  canceled the show .
Petitions are  होने हस्ताक्षरित  to bring the show for a fifth season .
The show airs on Treehouse TV  कनाडा  and Nick Jr. ( formerly Noggin ) .
Eddie and the Cruisers is a 1983 American film directed by Martin Davidson with the screenplay written by the director and Arlene Davidson  , आधारित on the अनोखा  by P. F. Kluge .
It was  marketed  with the tagline `` Rebel .
रॉकर  .
प्रेमी  .
आइडल  .
vanished . ''
Osteonecrosis of  the  jaw ( ONJ ) is a severe bone disease that affects the maxilla and the mandible .
Various forms of ONJ have been described over the last 160 years , and a number of causes have  महरूम  suggested in the literature .
Osteonecrosis of the jaws associated with bisphosphonate therapy , required by some cancer  उपचार regimens , रै महरूम पहचाना और पारिभाषित  as a pathological entity since 2003 .
The possible risk from lower oral doses of bisphosphonates , taken  by मरीजों  to prevent or treat osteoporosis , remains uncertain .
Various treatment options have  महरूम छान , however कठोर मामले  of ONJ still require surgical removal of the affected bone .
A thorough history and assessement of pre-existing systemic problems and possible sites of dental infection are required to help prevent the  कंडीशन  , especially if bisphosphonate therapy is considered .
The Boston Red Sox are a professional baseball team based in Boston ,  मैसाचुसेट्स  , and a member of Major League Baseball 's American League Eastern Division .
Founded in as one of the American League 's eight charter franchises , the Red Sox 's home  ballpark रै महरूम fenway  Park since .
The `` Red Sox '' name was chosen by   the team owner , John I. Taylor , around , following previous Boston teams that had been known as the `` Red Stockings `` .
They have played in 11 World Series ,  जीतना 7  .
Boston was a  प्रबल टोली in the नई लीग  , defeating the Pittsburgh Pirates in the first World Series in and winning four more championships by .
However , they then went into one of the longest championship  droughts in बेसबॉल इतिहास ,  called by some the `` Curse of the Bambino `` after its alleged beginning with the Red Sox 's sale of Babe Ruth to the rival Yankees two years after their world championship in 1918 , an 86-year wait before the team 's sixth World Championship in .
However , the team 's history during that period was hardly one of futility , but was rather punctuated with some of the most memorable moments in World  Series  history , including Enos Slaughter 's `` mad dash `` in , the `` Impossible Dream `` of , Carlton Fisk 's home run in , and Bill Buckner 's error in .
Red Sox history has also been marked by the team 's intense  फंसने  with the New York Yankees , arguably the fiercest and most historic in North American professional sports .
The Boston Red Sox are owned by Fenway Sports Group , who also own Liverpool Football Club of the  प्रीमियर लीग  in England .
The Red Sox are consistently one of the top MLB  टीमों in औसत सड़क उपस्थिति  , while the small capacity of Fenway Park prevents them from leading in overall attendance .
From May  15 , 2003 to  April 10 , 2013 , the Red Sox sold out every home game-a total of 820 games ( 794 regular season ) for a major professional sports record that lasted almost a decade .
mince पाई  filled with mincemeat
Mincemeat is a mixture of chopped dried fruit , distilled spirits and spices  , और sometimes बीफ  suet , beef , or venison .
Originally , mincemeat  सदा  contained meat .
Many modern recipes  contain बीफ suet , हालांकि  vegetable shortening is sometimes used in its place .
Variants of mincemeat are found in Australia , Brittany , Canada , northern Europe , Ireland  , दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी , the संयुक्त किंगडम और  the United States .
In some countries the term  mincemeat  refers to minced or ground meat .
Diana , Princess of Wales ( Diana Frances ; née Spencer ; 1 July 1961 – 31 August 1997 ) was the first wife of  चार्ल्स , प्रिंस of वेल्स , the ज्येष्ठ  son and heir apparent of Queen Elizabeth II .
She was well known for her  fund-raising कार्य  for international charities and as an eminent celebrity of the late 20th century .
Her wedding to the Prince  of  Wales on 29 July 1981 was held at St Paul 's Cathedral and seen by a global television audience of over 750 million .
While married she  bore  the titles Princess of Wales , Duchess of Cornwall , Duchess of Rothesay , Countess of Chester and Baroness of Renfrew .
The marriage produced two sons , the princes William and Harry , who became second and third in line to the British throne   .
Diana was born into an aristocratic  अंग्रेज़ी परिवार साथ  royal ancestry .
She  was  the fourth child of John Spencer , 8th Earl Spencer and his wife Frances , daughter of Maurice Roche , 4th Baron Fermoy .
She became a public figure with the announcement of her  सगाई  .
She also received recognition for her charity work and for her support of  the अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Campaign to Ban Landmines .
From 1989 , she was the president  of the ग्रेट ormond  Street Hospital for children , in addition to dozens of other charities .
Diana remained the object of worldwide media  scrutiny दौरान  and after her marriage , which ended in divorce on 28 August 1996 .
मीडिया ध्यान और पब्लिक शोक  were considerable following her death in a car crash in Paris on 31 August 1997 .
Argentina , officially the Argentine Republic ( ) , is the  दूसरी largest देश  in both South America and the Latin America region .
The country is a federation of 23  प्रांतों  and the autonomous city of Buenos Aires , its capital and largest city .
It is the eighth -largest country in the world by land area and the largest among  spanish-speaking  nations by geographical area of 2,780,400 km2 and is the fourth by population , with over 41 million people .
अर्जेंटीना is a founding सदस्य of the संयुक्त राष्ट्र ,  Mercosur , the Union of South American Nations , the Organization of Ibero-American States , the World Bank Group and the World Trade Organization , and is one of the G-15 and G-20 major economies .
Argentina is located in South America , bordered by Chile to the west and south , Bolivia and Paraguay to  the उत्तर  and Brazil and Uruguay to the northeast .
Argentina claims sovereignty  over भाग of  Antarctica , the Falkland Islands ( ) and South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands .
Argentina is the  successor राज्य of the  Viceroyalty of the Río de la Plata , an overseas colony of the Spanish Empire .
Argentina declared independence during the Argentine War of Independence , which was followed by the  अर्जेंटाइन सिविल युद्धों  during most of the 19th century .
The country faced several military coups and political instability during the 20th century , along with periodic economic  संकट कि continue  to this day .
A recognized Southern Cone power , and middle power , Argentina is Latin America 's third-largest economy ,  साथ a `` बहुत ऊँची '' दरजा on the  Human development index .
Within Latin America , Argentina has the fifth highest nominal GDP per capita and the  उच्चतम in खरीदना  power terms .
The Legatum Institute have argued that the country has a `` foundation for future growth due to its market size , levels of foreign direct investment , and percentage of  high-tech निर्यात as share  of total manufactured goods '' , and it is classed by investors as middle emerging economy .
अर्जेंटीना is the लैटिन अमरीकी  country with the most Nobel Prizes , for a total of five , all obtained during the second half of the twentieth century .
the देश  has three Nobel prizes in science and two of peace .
The most important aspects of science and technology in Argentina are concerned with medicine  , नाभिकीय भौतिकी  , biotechnology , nanotechnology , space and rocket technology and several fields related to the country 's Main Economic Activities .
The country also has the mega exhibition center of science , technology , industry and art that are   Latin America 's largest .
Hickory is a city in Catawba County , with parts also in Burke County and  काल्डवेल  County .
The city 's 2010 estimated  जनसांख्यिकी  is 40,010 .
Hickory is the principal  नगर in the  Hickory-Lenoir-Morganton MSA , in which the population at the 2010 Census was 365,497 .
Polyethylene terephthalate ( sometimes written poly ( ethylene terephthalate ) ) , commonly  abbreviated पालतु , पीट , or the obsolete petp  or PET-P , is a thermoplastic polymer resin of the polyester family and is used in synthetic fibers ; beverage , food and other liquid containers ; thermoforming applications ; and engineering resins often in combination with glass fiber .
The term polyethylene terephthalate is a source of confusion  क्युकी इस पदार्थ , पालतु  , does not contain polyethylene .
Thus , the alternate form , poly (  एथिलीन terephthalate ) , is  often used in scholarly journals for the sake of accuracy and clarity .
Depending on its processing and thermal history , polyethylene terephthalate may exist both as an  amorphous ( पारदर्शी  ) and as a semi-crystalline polymer .
The semicrystalline material might appear transparent ( particle  आकार < 500 nm ) or अपारदर्शी और श्वेत ( कण  size up to a few microns ) depending on its crystal structure and particle size .
Its monomer ( bis-β-hydroxyterephthalate ) can be synthesized by the esterification reaction between terephthalic acid and ethylene  ग्लाइकोल साथ जल as a byproduct , or by transesterification  reaction between ethylene glycol and dimethyl terephthalate with methanol as a byproduct .
Polymerization is through a polycondensation reaction of the monomers ( done  तत्काल बाद esterification/transesterification  ) with water as the byproduct .
The majority of the world 's PET production is for synthetic fibers ( in excess of 60 %  ) ,  with bottle production accounting for around 30 % of global demand .
In the context of textile applications , PET is referred to by its common name ,  `` पॉलिएस्टर , '' whereas the एक्रोनिम  `` PET '' is generally used in relation to packaging .
Polyester makes  up परिचय 18 % of संसार पॉलिमर  production and is the third-most-produced polymer ; polyethylene ( PE ) and polypropylene ( PP ) are first and second , respectively .
PET  consists of polymerized इकाई of  the monomer ethylene terephthalate , with repeating C10H8O4 units .
PET is commonly recycled ,  और  has the number `` 1 '' as its recycling symbol .
Louisiana was admitted  to the संघ on अप्रैल 30 , 1812  , and elects senators to Classes 2 and Class 3 .
Its current senators are Democrat Mary Landrieu  और रिपब्लिकन  David Vitter .
Black pudding , blood pudding or blood sausage is a type of sausage made by cooking blood or dried  रक्त साथ a फिलर जबतक it is  thick enough to congeal when cooled .
The dish exists in various cultures from  एशिया  to Europe and the Americas .
Pig , cattle , sheep , duck , and goat blood can be used  depending on अलग  countries .
In Europe and the Americas , typical fillers include meat , fat , suet , bread , cornmeal , sweet potato , onion , chestnuts , barley ,  और  oatmeal .
in स्पेन , पुर्तगाल और एशिया , आलू is प्रायः replaced by राइस .
शेयरधारक  may refer to:
Stakeholder ( corporate ) , a person , group , organization ,  सदस्य  or system who affects or can be affected by an organization 's actions
Stakeholder , an entity that can be affected by the results of  कि in जिससे वे  are said to be stakeholders , i.e. , that in which they have a stake .
Project  शेयरधारक  , a person , group or organization with an interest in a project
Stakeholder theory , a theory that identifies and  मॉडल  the groups which are stakeholders of a corporation or project
शेयरधारक विश्लेषण , the प्रक्रम  of identifying those affected by a project or event
Stakeholder ( law ) , a third party who  temporarily  holds money or property while its owner is still being determined
Jack Smight ( March 9 , 1925 - September 1 ,  2003 ) थी  an American theatre and film director .
Smight was  born in मिनियापोलिस  , Minnesota and went to school with future actor Peter Graves .
His film credits include The Traveling Executioner , Rabbit , Run  ,  Loving Couples , Midway , Harper , Airport 1975 , Damnation Alley and the Emmy Award -winning Eddie , as well as many episodes of television series such as The Twilight Zone and The Alfred Hitchcock Hour .
He  भी निर्देशित the 1960 ब्रॉडवे  play The 49th Cousin and composed the music for the film adaption of Roll of Thunder Hear My Cry .
Smight died from cancer in  लॉस  Angeles , California .
Dmitri Ivanovich Mendeleev ( ; 8 February 1834 – 2 February 1907 O.S . 27 January 1834 – 20 January 1907 ) was a  रूसी केमिस्ट और  inventor .
He formulated the Periodic Law , created his own version of the  आवधिक तालिका of तत्व , और प्रयुक्त  it to correct the properties of some already discovered elements and also to predict the properties of elements yet to be discovered !
Modesto ( Spanish for `` modest '' ) , officially  the नगर of modesto  , is the county seat and largest city of Stanislaus County , California , United States .
With a population of approximately   201,165 at the 2010 census , Modesto ranks as the 18th largest city in the state of California .
The Modesto Census County  प्रभाग , जिससे शामिल the  cities of Ceres and Riverbank , has a population of 312,842 as of 2010 .
Modesto is located in the central valley area of Northern California , 90 miles north of Fresno , 92 miles east of San  फ्रांसिस्को , 68 मील दक्षिण  of the state capital of Sacramento , 66 miles west of Yosemite National Park , and 24 miles south of Stockton .
Modesto , a 29-time Tree City USA honoree , is  घिरी by समृद्ध farmland  , lending to a ranking for the county as 6th among all California counties in farm production .
Led by milk , almonds , chickens , walnuts , and corn silage , the county grossed nearly $ 3.1 billion in  agricultural  production in 2011 .
modesto थी immortalized  in the 1973 George Lucas film American Graffiti .
The award winning  film captured  the spirit of `` cruising '' and friendship on 10th and 11th Streets in 1962 and led to the revival of 1950 's nostalgia that included the TV show Happy Days and the other spin-offs .
Ron Howard , Harrison Ford  और रिचर्ड dreyfuss  starred in the film .
The soundtrack was a huge  कामयाबी .
Director George Lucas is a native of  modesto , graduating  from Downey High School in 1962 .
The Gallup-Healthways Well-Being Index for 2011 , which  साक्षात्कार 1,000  participants daily and asks individuals to assess their jobs , finances , physical health , emotional state of mind and communities , ranked Modesto 126 out of the 190 cities surveyed .
In December 2009 , Forbes ranked Modesto 48th out of 100 among `` Best Bang-for-the-Buck  Cities  '' .
In this ranking , Modesto ranked 8th in  आवास affordability  and travel time but also ranked 86th in job forecast growth and 99th in foreclosures .
Independence Day , commonly known as the Fourth of July , is a federal  अवकाश in the संयुक्त राज्य commemorating the अपनाना  of the Declaration of Independence on July 4 , 1776 , declaring independence from the Kingdom of Great Britain .
स्वतंत्रता दिन is commonly संबद्ध साथ आतिशबाजी , parades , barbecues  , carnivals , fairs , picnics , concerts , baseball games , family reunions , and political speeches and ceremonies , in addition to various other public and private events celebrating the history , government , and traditions of the United States .
Independence Day is  the नेशनल  day of the United States .
A gender symbol  denotes the sex  of an organism or characterizes an agent by gender .
The two standard  लिंग प्रतीकों  denoting male ♂ and female ♀ are derived from astrological symbols , denoting the classical planets Mars and Venus , respectively .
These symbols have been in use since the Renaissance also denoting elements in alchemy ,  specifically the धातुओं  iron and copper .
They were  पहला प्रयुक्त to denote the प्रभावी लिंग  of plants ( i.e . sex of individual in a given crossbreed , since most plants are hermaphroditic ) by Carolus Linnaeus in 1751 .
A leasehold estate is an ownership  of a अस्थाई  right to hold land or property in which a lessee or a tenant holds rights of real property by some form of title from a lessor or landlord .
Although a tenant does hold rights to real property , a leasehold estate is   typically considered personal property .
Leasehold is a form of land tenure or property tenure where one party buys the right to occupy land or a building for a  दिए  length of time .
As lease is a legal estate , leasehold estate can be bought  और बेची  on the open market .
A leasehold thus differs from a freehold or fee  सरल  where the ownership of a property is purchased outright and thereafter held for an indeterminate length of time , and also differs from a tenancy where a property is let ( rented ) on a periodic basis such as weekly or monthly .
Until the  समाप्त of the पट्टे काल  ( often measured in decades or centuries ; a 99 year lease is quite common ) the leaseholder has the right to remain in occupation as an assured tenant paying an agreed rent to the owner .
Terms of the agreement are contained in a lease , which has elements of contract and  प्रॉपर्टी विधि intertwined  .
The term estate for years may  occasionally  be used .
This refers to a leasehold estate for any specific  काल of समय ( the शब्द  `` years '' is misleading ) .
An estate for years is not  automatically  renewed .
Colloquially , `` lease '' and `` leasing `` are often a formalization of a longer ,  विशिष्ट काल as compared  with a `` rental '' that created a tenancy at will , terminable or renewable at the end of a short period .
Olivia ( also known as Welcome to the World of the Pig Olivia ) is a British-American children 's animated television series produced by media company Chorion and  आधारित on इयान falconer  's books .
It is seen on Nick  jr.  in the US , Milkshake !
, Nick Jr. in the UK and Ireland , and Disney Junior in Latin America and Brazil  , treehouse tv  in Canada .
The show has won a silver Parents '  चुनाव पुरस्कार  for its positive story lines and characters .
Location of Panama   between Pacific ( bottom ) and Caribbean ( top ) , with canal at top center
The Panama Canal ( ) is a ship canal in Panama that connects the Atlantic Ocean ( via the Caribbean  समुद्र ) to the  Pacific Ocean .
The canal cuts across the Isthmus of Panama  और is a कुंजी conduit  for international maritime trade .
There are locks at  प्रत्येक समाप्त to लिफ्ट  ships up to Gatun Lake ( above sea-level ) .
Gatun Lake was created to reduce the amount of work  जरूरी लिये  the canal .
the वर्तमान  locks are wide .
A third , wider lane of   locks is being built .
France began work on the canal in 1881 , but had to stop because of engineering problems and high mortality due  to  disease .
The United States ( US ) later took over the project and took a decade to complete the canal in  1914 , enabling जहाजों to avoid the lengthy केप सींग रूट around the southernmost  tip of South America ( via the Drake Passage ) or to navigate the Strait of Magellan .
One of the largest and most difficult engineering projects ever undertaken , the Panama Canal shortcut made it possible for ships to travel between the  अटलांटिक और प्रशांत महासागर in हाफ  the time previously required .
The shorter , faster , safer route to the US West Coast and  to राष्ट्र in और साथ  the Pacific Ocean allowed those places to become more integrated with the world economy .
During this time , ownership of the territory that is now the Panama Canal was first Colombian ,  तब फ्रेंच , और तब अमरीकी ; the संयुक्त  States completed the construction .
The canal was taken over in 1999 by the Panamanian government  ,  as long planned .
Annual traffic has risen from about 1,000 ships when the canal opened in 1914 , to 14,702 vessels in 2008 , the latter  measuring a कुल of 309.6 लाख पनामा canal/universal  Measurement System ( PC/UMS ) tons .
By 2008 , more than  815,000 बरतन था passed through  the canal , many of them much larger than the original planners could have envisioned ; the largest ships that can transit the canal today are called Panamax .
the अमरीकी समाज of सिविल इंजीनियर्स रै नामित the पनामा कनाल एक of the सात चमत्कार of the आधुनिक संसार .
Benjamin Franklin ( April 17 , 1790 ) was one  of the founding fathers of the  United States .
A noted polymath , Franklin was a leading author , printer , political theorist , politician , postmaster , scientist , musician , inventor  , satirist , नागरिक activist , statesman  , and diplomat .
As a scientist , he was a major figure in the American Enlightenment and the history of  भौतिकी लिये उसके discoveries  and theories regarding electricity .
He invented the lightning  लाठी , bifocals  , the Franklin stove , a carriage odometer , and the glass 'armonica ' .
He facilitated many civic  संगठन , सहित  a fire department and a university .
Franklin earned the title of `` The First American '' for his early and  indefatigable campaigning लिये औपनिवेशिक  unity ; as an author and spokesman in London for several colonies , then as the first United States Ambassador to France , he exemplified the emerging American nation .
Franklin was  foundational in धमक  the American ethos as a marriage of the practical values of thrift , hard work , education , community spirit , self-governing institutions , and opposition to authoritarianism both political and religious , with the scientific and tolerant values of the Enlightenment .
In the words of historian Henry Steele Commager , `` In a  फ्रैंकलिन could be मिलाया the  virtues of Puritanism without its defects , the illumination of the Enlightenment without its heat . ''
To Walter Isaacson , this makes  फ्रैंकलिन  `` the most accomplished American of his age and the most influential in inventing the type of society America would become . ''
फ्रैंकलिन , सदा गर्व of  his working class roots , became a successful newspaper editor and printer in Philadelphia , the leading city in the colonies .
He was also  साझेदार साथ विलियम  Goddard and Joseph Galloway the three of whom published the Pennsylvania Chronicle , a newspaper that was known for its revolutionary sentiments and criticisms of the British monarchy in the American colonies .
He became wealthy publishing Poor  रिचर्ड 's almanack  and The Pennsylvania Gazette .
Franklin gained international renown as a scientist for his famous experiments  in विद्युत  and for his many inventions , especially the lightning rod .
He played a major role in establishing the University of  पेन्सिलवेनिया  and was elected the first president of the American Philosophical Society .
Franklin became a national hero in America  जब he पथप्रदर्शन the प्रयत्न to  have Parliament repeal the unpopular Stamp Act .
An accomplished diplomat , he was widely admired among the French as American minister to Paris and was a major figure in the  विकास of धनात्मक  Franco-American relations .
For many years he was the British postmaster for the colonies , which  सक्रिय  him to set up the first national communications network .
He was  क्रियाशील in जातियाँ  affairs , colonial and state politics , as well as national and international affairs .
From 1785 to 1788 , he served as governor  of पेन्सिलवेनिया  .
Toward the end of his life , he freed his slaves and became one of the most prominent  abolitionists  .
His colorful life and legacy of scientific and political achievement , and status as one of America 's most influential Founding Fathers , have seen Franklin honored on coinage and money ; warships ; the names of many towns , counties ,  शैक्षणिक संस्थानों , namesakes , और कंपनियाँ ; और अधिक  than two centuries after his death , countless cultural references .
Criminal Minds is an American police procedural television program that premiered September  22 , 2005  , on CBS .
The series follows a team of profilers from the FBI 's Behavioral Analysis Unit ( BAU ) based  in क्वांटिको , वर्जिनिया  .
The BAU is part of the FBI  नेशनल बीच  for the Analysis of Violent Crime .
The show differs from many procedural dramas by focusing on  प्रोफाइलिंग the दण्ड , बल्कि  than the crime itself .
The show is produced by The Mark Gordon Company in association with CBS Television Studios ( originally Paramount Network Television then CBS Paramount Network Television ) and  एबीसी studios ( originally  Touchstone Television ) .
CBS announced in October 2009  कि विरासत इंटरैक्टिव  would develop a video game based on the show .
The game would require players to examine crime scenes for clues to  सहायता solve हत्या  mysteries .
The interactive puzzle game was released in 2012 , but did not feature any of the voices of the show 's cast , nor was the cast involved  साथ the प्रोजेक्ट  .
On March 14 , 2012 , CBS renewed Criminal  minds लिये an आठवीं  season , which premiered on September 26 , 2012 .
`` Heart-Shaped Box '' is  a सोंग by the अमरीकी  grunge band Nirvana , written by vocalist and guitarist Kurt Cobain .
The song was released as the first single from the group 's third and final  studio  album , In Utero , in 1993 .
It was one of two songs from the album  मिश्रित by स्कॉट  Litt in order to augment the original production by producer Steve Albini .
While Nirvana 's label DGC Records did not release a physical single for sale in  the संयुक्त राज्य  , `` Heart-Shaped Box '' received much American radio airplay , reaching number one on the Billboard Modern Rock Tracks chart .
The international  रिलीज of  the single reached number five on the UK Singles Chart .
The song 's music video , directed by Anton Corbijn ,  garnered नाजुक  plaudits .
The orbital speed of a body , generally a planet , a natural satellite , an artificial satellite ,  or a अनेक स्टार , is the गति at  which it orbits around the barycenter of a system , usually around a more massive body .
It can be used to refer to either the mean orbital speed , the average speed as it  completes an कक्षा , or instantaneous कक्षीय गति ,  the speed at a particular point in its orbit .
The orbital speed at any position in the orbit can be computed from the distance to the central body at that position , and the specific orbital energy , which is independent of position : the kinetic energy is the total energy minus the  संभावित  energy .
Brown Palace   Interior and Atrium
Brown Palace Hotel is the second-oldest operating hotel in  डेनवर ,  Colorado and is one of the first atrium-style hotel ever built .
It is now  संचालित by कोरम  Hotels and Resorts .
It was  निर्मित in 1892 , एक साल  later than the Oxford Hotel .
It was named for its original owner , Henry C. Brown , and was designed with its  विषम triangular आकार  by architect Frank Edbrooke .
The hotel is located at 321 17th St , Denver , CO between 17th Street , Broadway and Tremont  street/pl in  downtown Denver behind the Republic Plaza .
The main  प्रवेश  door is on Tremont Street .
DVD-Video is a consumer video  स्वरूप प्रयुक्त to स्टोर डिजिटल वीडियो on dvd discs , और  is currently the dominant consumer video format in Asia , North America , Europe , and Australia .
Discs  using the dvd-video specification  require a DVD drive and an H.262/MPEG-2 Part 2 decoder ( e.g. , a DVD player , or a computer DVD drive with a software DVD player ) .
Commercial DVD movies are encoded using a combination of H.262/MPEG-2 Part 2 compressed  वीडियो और ऑडियो of  varying formats ( often multi-channel formats as described below ) .
Typically , the data rate for DVD movies ranges from 3 Mbit/s to 9.5 Mbit/s , and the bit  रेट is प्रायः अनुकूली  .
It was first  उपलब्धियाँ लिये  retail around 1997 .
The DVD-Video specification was created by DVD Forum and can be obtained from  dvd format/logo लाइसेंसिंग निगम  for a fee of $ 5,000 .
The specification is not publicly available , because every subscriber must sign a  non-disclosure अनुबंध  .
Certain information in the DVD Book is proprietary  और गोपनीय  .
The nautical mile ( symbol M , NM or nmi ) is a unit of length that is about one minute of arc of  अक्षांश measured  along any meridian , or about one minute of arc of longitude at the equator .
By international  अनुबंध  it has been set at 1,852 metres exactly ( about 6,076 feet ) .
It is a non- SI unit ( although  स्वीकृत लिये उपयोग in the अंतरराष्ट्रीय प्रणाली of इकाई  by the BIPM ) used especially by navigators in the shipping and aviation industries , and also in polar exploration .
It is  commonly प्रयुक्त  in international law and treaties , especially regarding the limits of territorial waters .
It developed from the sea mile and  the  related geographical mile .
The nautical mile remains in use by sea and air navigators worldwide because of its convenience when working with  चार्ट  .
Most nautical  चार्ट उपयोग the मर्केटर प्रक्षेप  whose scale varies by about a factor of six from the equator to 80° latitude , so charts covering large areas can not use a single linear scale .
The nautical mile is nearly equal to a minute of latitude on a chart , so a distance measured with a chart divider can be roughly converted to nautical miles using  the चार्ट 's अक्षांश स्केल  .
Shippensburg is a borough in Cumberland and Franklin counties  in the u.S. राज्य of  Pennsylvania .
Settled in 1730 ,  shippensburg झूठ in the कम्बरलैंड घाटी , 41 मील ( 66  km ) west-southwest of Harrisburg , and is part of the Harrisburg– Carlisle Metropolitan Statistical Area .
In 1900 , 3,228  लोगों  lived there ; in 1910 , 3,457 ; and in 1940 , 5,244 people lived there .
The  जनसांख्यिकी थी  5,492 at the 2010 census .
Shippensburg was incorporated as a  बरो on जनवरी  21 , 1819 .
In the past , there were furniture factories , engine and  पंप works , और अन्य औद्योगिक works स्तिथ  within the town .
Shippensburg is also the home of The  beistle कम्पनी , the oldest  and largest manufacturer of decorations and party goods , which sells its distinctive honeycomb paper decorations worldwide .
It is also the location of Pague and Fegan , the oldest  लगातार संचालित हार्डवेयर स्टोर in पेन्सिलवेनिया  .
In May 2012 , Volvo Construction Equipment began a $ 100 million expansion  प्रोजेक्ट to लाओ इसके  American headquarters to Shippensburg .
Shippensburg is  भी  home to Shippensburg University of Pennsylvania , one of 14 universities of the Pennsylvania State System of Higher Education .
Yearly the  पिछला पूरा सप्ताह of  July , the Shippensburg Community Fair is held .
Begun in 1958 , the fair bills itself as Pennsylvania  's  largest bi-county fair .
The fair includes agricultural exhibits , a craft show , food vendors , and  कार्निवल यात्राएँ amongst अन्य  things .
Every summer on the last Saturday of August ,  shippensburg holds the मकई पर्व , an इवेंट कि  brings regional artisans and vendors to operate stands downtown .
The downtown is closed to traffic for at least 5 blocks for most  of the दिन  .
Average attendance at the festival is  अनुमानित  at 60,000 - 70,000 each year .
Black hairy tongue ( BHT , also termed lingua villosa nigra ) refers to a condition of the tongue where the filiform  papillae elongate  with black or brown discoloration , giving a black and hairy appearance .
The appearance may be alarming , but it  is a हानिरहित  condition .
Predisposing factors include smoking , xerostomia ( dry mouth ) ,  नरम  diet , poor oral hygiene and certain medications .
Management is by  improving मौखिक hygiene  , especially scraping or brushing the tongue .
The IEEE  1394 इंटरफ़ेस is a सीरियल बस इंटरफ़ेस  standard for high-speed communications and isochronous real-time data transfer .
It was developed in the  लेट 1980s  and early 1990s by Apple , who called it FireWire .
The 1394  इंटरफ़ेस is  comparable to USB , and often those two technologies are considered together , though USB has more market share .
Apple first included FireWire in some of its 1999 models , and most Apple computers  चूंकि the साल 2000  have included FireWire ports , though , as of 2013 , nothing beyond the 800 version ( IEEE-1394b ) .
The interface is also known by the brand i.LINK ( Sony  ) , और लिंक्स ( टेक्सास यंत्र  ) .
IEEE 1394 replaced parallel SCSI in many applications , because of lower implementation costs  और a सरलीकृत , अधिक  adaptable cabling system .
The 1394 standard also defines a backplane interface , though  इस is नहीं  as widely used .
IEEE 1394 is the High-Definition  audio-video संजाल गठबंधन ( हाना ) मानक कनेक्शन इंटरफ़ेस लिये  A/V ( audio/visual ) component communication and control .
FireWire is also available in  बेतार  , fiber optic , and coaxial versions using the isochronous protocols .
Stephen `` Stevie '' Ray  vaughan (  October 3 , 1954 – August 27 , 1990 ) was an American guitarist , singer-songwriter , and record producer .
Often referred to by his initials  SRV ,  Vaughan is best known as a founding member and leader of Double Trouble .
साथ साथ वादक  Chris Layton and bassist Tommy Shannon , they ignited the blues revival of the 1980s .
With a career spanning seven years , Vaughan and Double Trouble consistently sold out concerts while their albums   frequently went gold .
He was born and  उठाया in  Dallas , Texas , and for a short period of time lived in Graham , Texas .
As the  younger bhai of jimmie vaughan , vaughan  started playing the guitar at age seven and formed several bands that occasionally performed in local nightclubs .
At age 17 , he dropped out of high school and moved to Austin to further pursue  his  musical career , joining groups such as Krackerjack , the Nightcrawlers , and the Cobras .
In 1977 , he formed Triple  threat revue , a बैंड कि  eventually evolved into Double Trouble and regularly performed around Austin .
In 1982 , Vaughan and Double Trouble performed at the Montreux Jazz Festival in Switzerland , catching the  ध्यान of संगीतकारों दाउद  Bowie and Jackson Browne .
Bowie asked Vaughan to play  on उसके आगामी  studio album Let 's Dance , while Browne offered the band free use of his personal studio in Los Angeles to record an album .
In March 1983 , Vaughan and Double Trouble were signed to Epic Records by veteran record producer John Hammond Sr. and released their debut album , Texas  Flood in  June of that year .
बाद कामयाब  touring , the group released the albums , Could n't Stand the Weather ( 1984 ) and Soul to Soul ( 1985 ) , the latter of which featured new keyboardist Reese Wynans .
Although his career had progressed successfully , Vaughan checked into a rehabilitation hospital in Atlanta , Georgia to give up a  कोका  and alcohol habit and returned to touring with the band .
In June 1989 , In Step was released and earned them a Grammy Award for Best Contemporary Blues  प्रदर्शन  .
On August 27 , 1990 , Vaughan was killed in a helicopter crash  following a  performance in East Troy , Wisconsin .
Vaughan 's uniquely eclectic yet intense style was derived from a  किस्में of musical  genres .
He was influenced by blues musicians including Albert King ,  फ्रेडी किंग , ओटिस फटाफट , और muddy waters ,  and rock guitarists such as Jimi Hendrix and Lonnie Mack .
His  गिटार playing  reflected the classic blues and pentatonic scales .
He has received wide critical recognition for his guitar  playing  , ranking at # 6 on Rolling Stones list of `` 100 Greatest Guitarists '' in 2011 .
He was posthumously  inducted  into the Blues Hall of Fame in 2000 and a memorial statue was erected in Austin 's Auditorium Shores park .
Stevie Ray Vaughan is widely considered to be one of the greatest musicians to come from the  राज्य of टेक्सास  .
GigE  redirects  here .
For   the camera protocol , see GigE vision .
In computer networking , gigabit Ethernet ( GbE or 1 GigE ) is a term describing various technologies for transmitting Ethernet frames at a rate of a gigabit per second ( 1,000,000,000 bits per second ) , as  पारिभाषित by the आईईईई 802.3-2008  standard .
It came into use beginning in  1999 , धीरे  supplanting Fast Ethernet in wired local networks , where it performed considerably faster .
the केबल  and equipment are very similar to previous standards and were very common and economical by 2010 .
Half-duplex gigabit links connected  through  hubs are allowed by the specification , but full-duplex usage with switches is much more common .
Intel PRO/1000 GT  पीसीआई संजाल  interface card
The main  components  of a stamp:
1 .  चित्र
2 .  perforations
3  . Denomination
4 .  देश  name
A postage stamp is a small piece of paper that is purchased and displayed on an item of mail  as प्रमाण  of payment of postage .
Typically , stamps are made from special paper , with a national designation and denomination ( price ) on the  फेस , और a गम  adhesive on the reverse side .
Postage stamps are purchased from a postal administration or other authorized vendor and are used to pay for the costs involved in moving mail as  खूब as अन्य कारोबार necessities ऐसे  as insurance and registration .
The stamp’s shape is usually that of a small rectangle of varying proportions , though triangles or other  आकार हैं occasionally  used .
The stamp is affixed to an envelope or other postal cover ( i.e. , packet , box ,  mailing बेलन ) कि  the customer wishes to send .
The item  is  then processed by the postal system , where a postmark , sometimes known as a cancellation mark , is usually applied over the stamp and cover ; this procedure marks the stamp as used , which prevents its reuse .
The postmark indicates the date  और पाइंट  of origin of the mailing .
The mailed item is then delivered to the address that the  ग्राहक रै लागू to  the envelope or cover .
Postage stamps  have facilitated  the delivery of mail since the 1840s .
Before this time , ink and hand-stamps ( hence the word  'stamp ' ) , प्रायः  made from wood or cork , were often used to frank the mail and confirm the payment of postage .
The first adhesive postage stamp , commonly referred to as the Penny Black , was  जारी  in the United Kingdom in 1840 .
The invention of the stamp was a part of the attempt to reform and improve the postal system in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland  , जिससे in the जल्दी 19th सदी थी in  disarray and rife with corruption .
There are varying  खाते of  the inventor or inventors of the stamp .
Before the introduction of postage stamps , mail in the UK was paid for by the recipient , a system that  थी संबद्ध साथ an irresolvable प्रॉब्लम : the लागत of delivering  mail were not recoverable by the postal service when recipients were unable or unwilling to pay for delivered items , and senders had no incentive to restrict the number , size , or weight of items sent , whether or not they would ultimately be paid for .
The postage stamp resolved this issue in a simple and elegant manner , with the additional benefit of  रूम लिये an तत्व of सौंदर्य to be  introduced .
Later related inventions include postal stationery such as prepaid-postage envelopes , post cards , lettercards , aerogrammes and wrappers , postage meters , and , more  recently , specialty  boxes and envelopes provided free to the customer by the U.S. postal service for priority or express mailing .
The postage stamp afforded convenience  लिये दोनो the मेलर और डाक officials  , more efficiently recovered costs for the postal service , and ultimately resulted in a better , faster postal system .
With the conveniences stamps offered , their use resulted in greatly increased mailings during  the  19th and 20th centuries .
Postage stamps during this era were the most popular way of paying for mail , but by the end of the 20th century were rapidly being eclipsed  by the उपयोग of metered  postage and bulk mailing by businesses . )
The same result with respect to communications by private parties occurred over the last decade of the 20th century and the first decade of the 21st due to  घटती  cost of long distance telephone communications and the development and explosive spread of electronic mailing ( `` e-mail '' via the Internet ) and bill paying systems had .
As postage stamps with their  engraved imagery began to appear on  a widespread basis , historians and collectors began to take notice .
The study of postage stamps  और उनके उपयोग  is referred to as philately .
Stamp collecting can be both a hobby and a form of historical study and reference , as  government-issued postage stamps और उनके  mailing systems have always been involved with the history of nations .
the विश्वविद्यालयों of  Alabama at Birmingham ( UAB ) is a public university in Birmingham in the U.S. state of Alabama .
Developing  इससे an एक्सटेंशन बीच स्थापित  in 1936 , the institution became an autonomous institution in 1969 and is today one of three institutions in the University of Alabama System .
uab offers over 140 कार्यक्रम of पढ़ाई in 12 अकादमिक विभाजन अग्रणी to स्नातक 's , निपुण 's , डॉक्टरेट , और पेशेवर डिग्री in the सोशल और behavioral sciences , the उदार कला , कारोबार , शिक्षा , अभियान्त्रिकी , और health-related फ़ील्ड ऐसे as आयुर्विज्ञान , dentistry , optometry , नर्सिंग , और पब्लिक  health .
The school is highly renowned for its medical research and  प्राकृतिक  sciences programs .
The UAB Health System , one of the largest academic medical centers in the United  राज्य  , is affiliated with the university .
UAB Hospital sponsors residency programs in  विभिन्न चिकित्सा specialties , सहित  internal medicine , neurology , surgery , radiology , and anesthesiology .
UAB Hospital is the only ACS verified Level I trauma center in Alabama , as rated by the American College of Surgeons  आघात  Program .
UAB is the state 's largest employer , with more than 18,000 faculty and staff and over  53,000 कार्य  at the university and in the health system .
An estimated 10 percent of the jobs in the Birmingham-Hoover Metropolitan Area and 1 in 33 jobs in the state of Alabama are  सीधे or indirectly  related to UAB .
The university 's overall annual  आर्थिक प्रभाव  was estimated to be $ 4.6 billion in 2010 .
In the fall of 2012 , the University of Alabama  at  Birmingham enrolled 17,999 students from more than 110 countries , including 1,605 freshmen .
There are plans to commence with an ``  आक्रामक '' विकास in  enrollment at UAB .
The current UAB President is  dr. रे  L. Watts .
Tofu , also called bean curd , is a food made by coagulating soy juice and then pressing the  resulting curds into नरम श्वेत  blocks .
It is  a  component in many East Asian and Southeast Asian cuisines .
There are many  अलग किस्में of टोफू , सहित  fresh tofu and tofu that has been processed in some way .
Tofu has a subtle flavor and can be  प्रयुक्त in savory  and sweet dishes .
It is often seasoned or  marinated to  suit the dish .
टोफू originated  in ancient China some 2,000 years ago .
Chinese legend ascribes its invention to  प्रिंस लियू an ( चाइनीज : 劉安  Liú Ān , 179–122 BC ) .
Tofu and its production  तकनीक  were introduced into Korea and then Japan during the Nara period .
It spread  into  other parts of East Asia as well .
This spread likely coincided  साथ the स्प्रेड of buddhism  because it is an important source of protein in the vegetarian diet of East Asian Buddhism .
li shizhen  in the Ming Dynasty described a method of making tofu in Bencao Gangmu .
Tofu has a low calorie count ,  अपेक्षाकृत  large amounts of protein , and little fat .
It is high in iron and depending on the coagulant used in  निर्माण , may भी  be high in calcium and/or magnesium .
Bubbles ( born 1983 ) is a common chimpanzee , known for being the  one-time  pet of American recording artist Michael Jackson , who bought the primate from a Texas research facility in the early 1980s .
The animal was a frequent travel companion to the  सिंगर  , whose attachment to the animal led to media mockery and , among other factors , to a public perception of Jackson as an eccentric .
During the Bad World Tour , for example , Jackson brought Bubbles with him to Japan , where they both drank  चाय साथ  the mayor of Osaka .
Bubbles was initially kept at the Jackson family 's home in Encino , Los  एंजिल्स , लकिन थी स्थानांतरित  to Neverland Ranch in 1988 .
There , he slept in a crib in Jackson 's bedroom , used the  सिंगर 's प्रसाधन ,  and ate candy in the Neverland movie theater .
In 2003 the public learned that ,   like all captive chimpanzees , Bubbles had matured into a large and aggressive adult chimp unsuitable as a companion animal .
He was sent to a California animal trainer , where he was  reported  to have attempted suicide .
When the trainer shut down his operation in 2004 , Bubbles was moved to the Center for  ग्रेट apes , a अभयारण्य in wauchula , फ्लोरिडा ,  where he has lived since 2005 .
Muse  हैं an अंग्रेज़ी  rock band from Teignmouth , Devon , which formed in 1994 .
The band consists of school friends Matthew Bellamy ( lead vocals , lead guitar , piano ,  keyboards , keytar ) , क्रिस्टोफर wolstenholme ( बास  , vocals , keyboards , rhythm guitar , harmonica ) and Dominic Howard ( drums , percussion , synthesisers , sampling ) .
Since the release of their  2006  album Black Holes and Revelations , keyboardist and percussionist Morgan Nicholls has performed live with the band .
Muse are known for their energetic and extravagant live performances and their fusion of many music genres , including space rock , progressive rock ,   alternative rock , heavy metal , classical music and electronica .
Muse  have released छह स्टुडियो एल्बम  : Showbiz ( 1999 ) , Origin of Symmetry ( 2001 ) , Absolution ( 2003 ) , Black Holes and Revelations ( 2006 ) , The Resistance ( 2009 ) and The 2nd Law ( 2012 ) .
They have also   issued three live albums , Hullabaloo Soundtrack ( 2002 ) , which is also a compilation of B-sides , Absolution Tour ( 2005 ) , and HAARP ( 2008 ) , which documents the band 's performances at Wembley Stadium in 2007 .
Black Holes and Revelations  अर्जित the बैंड a पारा पुरस्कार नामांकन  and a third place finish in the NME Albums of the Year list for 2006 .
Muse have also won a collection of music awards throughout their history , including five MTV Europe Music Awards , six Q Awards , eight NME Awards , two Brit Awards —winning `` Best British Live Act '' twice  , an एमटीवी वीडियो म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार ,  four Kerrang !
पुरस्कार और an  American Music Award .
They were also nominated for five Grammy Awards , of which they  जीती बेहतरीन चट्टान एल्बम  , for their fifth studio album The Resistance ( 2009 ) .
चिंतन have  sold over 15 million albums worldwide .
Bloemfontein ( , ; Dutch for `` fountain of flowers '' ) is the capital city of the Free State Province of South Africa ; and , as the judicial capital  of the स्वदेश  , one of South Africa 's three national capitals – the other two being Cape Town , the legislative capital , and Pretoria , the administrative capital .
Bloemfontein is popularly and poetically known as `` the city of roses `` , owing  to the abundance  of these flowers and the annual rose festival held there .
The city 's Sesotho name is Mangaung , meaning `` place of cheetahs `` and it has  महरूम शामिल in the  Mangaung Local Municipality since 2000 .
bloemfontein is situated  on dry grassland at , at an altitude of above sea level .
The city is home to 369,568 residents , while  the mangaung लोकल नगरपालिका  has a population of 645,455 .
जहाँ do  We Come From ?
What Are  we  ?
Where Are We  going  ?
One of Post-Impressionist Paul Gauguin 's most  प्रसिद्ध paintings  .
The meaning of life is a philosophical question concerning the significance   of life or existence in general .
It can also  be expressed  in different forms , such as `` Why are we here ? `` , `` What is life all about ? `` , and `` What is the purpose of existence ? ''
It has been the subject of much philosophical ,  वैज्ञानिक , और theological  speculation throughout history .
There have been a large number of proposed answers to these questions from many  अलग  cultural and ideological backgrounds .
The meaning of life is in the philosophical and religious conceptions of existence , social ties , consciousness , and happiness , and borders on many other issues , such as symbolic meaning , ontology ,  मान , purpose , आचार , शुभ और  evil , free will , the existence of one or multiple Gods , conceptions of God , the soul , and the afterlife .
Scientific contributions focus primarily on describing related empirical facts about the universe , exploring the context and parameters concerning  the 'how ' of  life .
Science also studies  और can provide  recommendations for the pursuit of well-being and a related conception of morality .
An  वैकल्पिक  , humanistic approach poses the question `` What is the meaning of my life ? ''
The value of the  सवाल pertaining to the purpose of जीवन  may coincide with the achievement of ultimate reality , or a feeling of oneness , or even a feeling of sacredness .
Family Guy creator Seth MacFarlane also provides the voices  of पीटर  Griffin , Stewie Griffin , Brian Griffin , and Glenn Quagmire .
Family Guy is an  अमरीकी एनिमेटेड  sitcom that features five main voice actors , and numerous regular cast and recurring guest stars .
The principal voice cast consists of show creator Seth MacFarlane , Alex Borstein ,  सेठ ग्रीन , mila kunis ( जो replaced लेसी chabert बाद  the first season ) and Mike Henry and now , the new actor Beau Osborne .
Recurring voice actors include Patrick Warburton , Adam West , John G.  ब्रेनन , निकोल सुलीवान  and Jennifer Tilly , and repeat guest stars include Phyllis Diller , Charles Durning , Rush Limbaugh , and Phil LaMarr .
Many cast  सदस्यों  provide voices for multiple characters .
The voice actors , in portraying the various character personalities on the show , draw  प्रेरणा इससे हस्तियाँ  and pop culture .
Family Guy characters have been played by  अधिक than एक कर्ता , बाद  members of the show left the series or had conflicting obligations .
Kunis was nominated for an Annie Award for voicing Meg Griffin in the season 5 episode `` Barely Legal `` and MacFarlane has also won an Emmy Award for Outstanding Voice-Over Performance and an Annie Award for Best Voice  एक्टिंग in an एनिमेटेड टेलीविज़न उत्पादन , हालांकि no अन्य डाल सदस्य रै जीती an पुरस्कार  for their work on the series .
1911 Illustration by  एडमंड  Dulac
`` The Princess and the Pea '' ( ; literal translation : `` The Princess on the Pea '' ) is a literary fairy tale by Hans Christian Andersen about a young woman whose royal identity is established by a test of her  शारीरिक संवेदनशीलता  .
The tale was first published with three others by Andersen in an inexpensive booklet  on 8 may  1835 in Copenhagen by C.A . Reitzel .
Andersen had heard the  स्टोरी as a चाइल्ड , और it संभावित रै इसके सोर्स in लोक  material , possibly originating from Sweden as it is unknown in the Danish oral tradition .
Neither `` The Princess and the Pea '' nor Andersen 's other tales of 1835 were well received by Danish critics , who  disliked उनके कैज़ुअल , chatty स्टाइल , और  their lack of morals .
In  1959 `` the  Princess and the Pea '' was adapted to the musical stage in a production called Once Upon a Mattress starring Carol Burnett .
German Americans ( ) are  नागरिकों of the संयुक्त राज्य  who were either born in Germany or are of German ancestry .
They comprise about 50  लाख लोगों , बनाना  them the largest ancestry group ahead of Irish Americans , African Americans and English Americans .
They comprise about 1/3  of  the German diaspora all over the world .
None  of the  German states had New World colonies .
Not until the 1670s did the first significant groups of German immigrants   arrive in the British colonies , settling primarily in New York and Pennsylvania .
Immigration continued in very  विशाल संख्याएँ दौरान the 19th  century , with some eight million arrivals from Germany .
They were pulled by the attractions of land and religious freedom , and pushed out of Europe by  shortages of जमीन और धार्मिक or राजनैतिक  oppression .
Many arrived seeking religious or political freedom , others for economic opportunities greater  than those in यूरोपीय , और  others simply for the chance to start fresh in the New World .
The arrivals before 1850 were mostly farmers who sought out  the सबसे उत्पादक  land , where their intensive farming techniques would pay off .
After 1840 , many came to cities , where `` Germania '' —German-speaking   districts—soon emerged .
German Americans established the first kindergartens in the United States ,  introduced the क्रिसमस पेड़ परंपरा , और originated  popular American foods such as hot dogs and hamburgers .
German American celebrations are held throughout  the देश , एक of the सबसे well-known होने the german-american  Steuben Parade in New York City , held every third Saturday in September .
There are also major annual events in Chicago ,  सिनसिनाटी , मिल्वौकी  , Pittsburgh , St. Louis and other cities .
Like many other immigrants that came to the United States , an overwhelming number of people of German or partial German  descent have  essentially become Americanized .
The Preamble to the United States Constitution is a brief introductory statement of the Constitution  's आधारभूत उद्देश्य  and guiding principles .
It states in general terms , and courts have  referred to it as  reliable evidence of , the Founding Fathers ' intentions regarding the Constitution 's meaning and what they hoped the Constitution would achieve as it pertains to all of the people of the United States .
As the phrase , `` we the people '' suggests that the new government originates from the people of the United States and it sets into motion a question as it pertains to that vast population concerning the individual rights and equality among all people ; this can be seen most broadly in the  divide between republicanism  and social democracy .
The history of the Internet began with   the development of electronic computers in the 1950s .
The public was first introduced to the concepts that would lead to the Internet when a message was sent over the ARPANet from computer science Professor Leonard Kleinrock 's laboratory at University of California , Los Angeles ( UCLA ) , after the  दूसरी टुकड़ा of संजाल उपकरण थी संस्थापित at स्टैनफोर्ड शोध संस्थान  ( SRI ) .
Packet switched networks such as ARPANET , Mark I at NPL in the UK , CYCLADES , Merit Network , Tymnet , and Telenet , were developed in the late 1960s and  जल्दी 1970s using a किस्में of प्रोटोकॉल  .
The ARPANET in particular led to the development of protocols  लिये internetworking , in जिससे अनेक  separate networks could be joined together into a network of networks .
In 1982 , the Internet protocol suite ( TCP/IP ) was standardized , and consequently , the concept of a world-wide network of  interconnected tcp/ip संजाल , पुकारा  the Internet , was introduced .
Access to the ARPANET was expanded in 1981 when the National Science Foundation ( NSF  ) विकसित the कंप्यूटर विज्ञान संजाल ( csnet ) और again  in 1986 when NSFNET provided access to supercomputer sites in the United States from research and education organizations .
Commercial Internet  सेवा प्रदाताओं  ( ISPs ) began to emerge in the late 1980s and early 1990s .
The ARPANET was  decommissioned  in 1990 .
The Internet was commercialized in 1995 when NSFNET was decommissioned , removing the last restrictions on the use of  the अंतरजाल  to carry commercial traffic .
Since the mid-1990s , the Internet has had a revolutionary impact on culture and commerce , including the rise of near-instant communication by electronic mail , instant messaging , Voice over Internet Protocol (  voip ) `` फोन काल्स '' , two-way इंटरैक्टिव वीडियो काल्स , और the संसार चौड़ी वेब साथ  its discussion forums , blogs , social networking , and online shopping sites .
The research and education community continues to develop and use advanced networks such as NSF 's very high speed Backbone Network Service ( vBNS ) , Internet2  , और नेशनल lambdarail  .
Increasing amounts of data are  transmitted at उच्चतर और उच्चतर  speeds over fiber optic networks operating at 1-Gbit/s , 10-Gbit/s , or more .
The Internet 's takeover over the global  संचार लैंडस्केप थी लगभग तत्काल  in historical terms : it only communicated 1 % of the information flowing through two-way telecommunications networks in the year 1993 , already 51 % by 2000 , and more than 97 % of the telecommunicated information by 2007 .
Today the Internet continues  to grow , चलित by कभी वृहद amounts  of online information , commerce , entertainment , and social networking .
Southwest Airlines Co. ( ) is a major U.S. airline and the world 's largest  low-cost  carrier , headquartered in Dallas , Texas .
It was  स्थापित  in 1967 and adopted its current name in 1971 .
The airline has more than 46,000 employees and operates more than 3,400  फ़्लाइट प्रति दिन .
As of June 5 , 2011 , it carries the most domestic passengers of any U.S.  एयरलाइन  .
As of April 2013 , Southwest Airlines has scheduled service to 84 destinations  in 41  states and Puerto Rico .
Southwest Airlines has solely operated Boeing 737s , except for a few years in the  1970s और 1980s , जब it संचालित  Boeing 727s .
As of August  2012  , Southwest is the largest operator of the 737 worldwide with over 550 in service , each operating an average of six flights per day .
in may 2011 , the एयरलाइन acquired airtran  Airways , with integration of the carriers expected to be complete by 2014 .
On  कूच 1 , 2012 , the  company was issued a single operating certificate , technically becoming one airline .
Rolling Rock is a 4.6 % abv pale lager launched in 1939 by the Latrobe  brewing कम्पनी  .
Although founded as a local beer in Western Pennsylvania , it  थी marketed aggressively  and eventually became a national product .
The brand was sold to Anheuser-Busch of St. Louis  , मिसौरी , in मिड 2006 , जिससे transferred  brewing operations to New Jersey .
Benedict XVI ( , , ; born Joseph Aloisius Ratzinger on 16 April  1927 ) is पोप emeritus of the कैथोलिक  Church .
He served as Pope  इससे 2005  to 2013 .
In  कि स्थिति  , he was both the leader of the Catholic Church and Sovereign of the Vatican City State .
बेनेडिक्ट  was elected on 19 April 2005 in a papal conclave , celebrated his Papal Inauguration Mass on 24 April 2005 , and took possession of his cathedral , the Archbasilica of St. John Lateran , on 7 May 2005 .
Ordained as a priest in 1951 in his native Bavaria , Ratzinger established himself as a highly  regarded विश्वविद्यालयों theologian  by the late 1950s and was appointed a full professor in 1958 .
After a long career as an academic , serving  as a प्राध्यापक  of theology at several German universities—the last being the University of Regensburg , where he served as Vice President of the university in 1976 and 1977—he was appointed Archbishop of Munich and Freising and cardinal by Pope Paul VI in 1977 , an unusual promotion for someone with little pastoral experience .
In 1981 , he settled in Rome  जब he became prefect of  the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith , one of the most important dicasteries of the Roman Curia .
From 2002 until his election  as पोप , he थी भी डीन  of the College of Cardinals , and as such , the primus inter pares among the cardinals .
Prior to becoming pope , he was `` a major figure on the Vatican stage for a quarter of a century '' as `` one of the most respected , influential and controversial members of the College of Cardinals '' ; he had  an influence `` दूसरी to none  when it came to setting church priorities and directions '' as one of Pope John Paul II 's closest confidants .
He was originally a liberal  theologian , लकिन अपनाया  conservative views after 1968 .
His prolific writings defend traditional  कैथोलिक doctrine  and values .
During his papacy , Benedict XVI advocated a return to fundamental Christian values to counter the increased  secularisation  of many Western countries .
He views relativism 's denial of  उद्देश्य सच्चाई , और the denial of moral  truths in particular , as the central problem of the 21st century .
He taught the importance of both the Catholic Church and an understanding of God 's  redemptive  love .
Pope Benedict also revived a number of traditions including elevating the Tridentine  द्रव्यमान to a अधिक prominent  position .
He renewed the relationship between the Catholic  गिरिजाघर और आर्ट ,  viewing the use of beauty as a path to the sacred , promoted the use of Latin , and reintroduced traditional papal garments , for which reason he was called `` the pope of aesthetics '' .
He has been described as `` the main  बौद्धिक  force in the Church '' since the mid-1980s .
Several of Pope Benedict 's students from his academic career are also prominent churchmen today and  confidantes of उसे , notably क्रिस्टोफ  Schönborn .
On 11 February 2013 , Pope Benedict announced   his resignation in a speech in Latin before the cardinals , citing a `` lack of strength of mind and body '' due to his advanced age .
His resignation became  प्रभावी  on 28 February 2013 .
He is the first pope to resign since Pope Gregory XII in 1415 , and the first to do so on  उसके अपना पहल  since Pope Celestine V in 1294 .
As pope emeritus ,  बेनेडिक्ट  retains the style of His Holiness , and the title of Pope , and will continue to dress in the papal colour of white .
He was succeeded by Pope Francis on 13 March 2013 , and he moved into the newly renovated Mater Ecclesiae monastery for his  रिटायरमेंट  on 2 May 2013..
जेब stereoscope  with original test image .
Used by  सैन्य to  examine stereoscopic pairs of aerial photographs .
View of Boston , c. 1860 ; an early stereoscopic  कार्ड लिये देखने  a scene from nature
kaiser-panorama consisted of a multi-station देखने  apparatus and sets of stereo slides .
Patented by  A. fuhrmann  around 1890 .
Company of ladies watching stereoscopic photographs ,  पेंटिंग  by Jacob Spoel , before 1868 .
A very early depiction of people  using a stereoscope  .
stereoscopy ( भी पुकारा stereoscopics  or 3D imaging ) is a technique for creating or enhancing the illusion of depth in an image by means of stereopsis for binocular vision .
The word stereoscopy derives from the Greek `` στερεός '' ( stereos ) , `` firm , solid '' + ``  σκοπέω '' ( skopeō ) ,  `` to look '' , `` to see '' .
Most stereoscopic methods present two offset  बिंब separately  to the left and right eye of the viewer .
These  two-dimensional बिंब  are then combined in the brain to give the perception of 3D depth .
This technique is distinguished from 3D displays that display an image in three full dimensions  , allowing the निरीक्षक  to increase information about the 3-dimensional objects being displayed by head and eye movements .
John Adams ( October 30 , 1735 ( O.S . October 19 , 1735 ) – July 4 , 1826 ) was the second president of the United States ( 1797–1801  ) , having पहले  served as the first vice president of the United States .
An American Founding Father , he was a statesman , diplomat , and a leading advocate of  अमरीकी स्वतंत्रता इससे ग्रेट  Britain .
Well educated , he was an Enlightenment political theorist  जो प्रचारित republicanism और  wrote prolifically about his often seminal ideas , both in published works and in letters to his wife and key adviser Abigail as well as to other Founding Fathers .
Adams came to prominence in the early stages of  the अमरीकी क्रान्ति  .
A lawyer and public figure in Boston , as a delegate from Massachusetts to the Continental Congress , he played a leading role in persuading  कॉंग्रेस to घोषित स्वतंत्रता  .
He assisted Thomas Jefferson in drafting the Declaration  of  Independence in 1776 , and was its primary advocate in the Congress .
Later , as a diplomat in Europe ,  he helped negotiate  the eventual peace treaty with Great Britain , and was responsible for obtaining vital governmental loans from Amsterdam bankers .
A political  theorist  and historian , Adams largely wrote the Massachusetts Constitution in 1780 , which together with his earlier Thoughts on Government , influenced American political thought .
One of his greatest roles was as a judge of character : in 1775 , he  मनोनीत जार्ज वॉशिंगटन to  be commander-in-chief , and 25 years later nominated John Marshall to be Chief Justice of the United States .
Adams ' revolutionary credentials  secured उसे दो शर्तें as जार्ज  Washington 's vice president and his own election in 1796 as the second president .
During his one term , he encountered ferocious attacks by the Jeffersonian Republicans , as well as the dominant faction in his own  federalist  Party led by his bitter enemy Alexander Hamilton .
Adams signed the controversial Alien and  राजद्रोह  Acts , and built up the army and navy especially in the face of an undeclared naval war ( called the `` Quasi-War `` ) with France , 1798–1800 .
The major accomplishment of his presidency   was his peaceful resolution of the conflict in the face of Hamilton 's opposition .
In 1800 , Adams was  पराजित लिये  re-election by Thomas Jefferson and retired to Massachusetts .
He later  resumed  his friendship with Jefferson .
He and his wife , Abigail Adams , founded an accomplished family line of politicians ,  राजनयिकों , और इतिहासकारों  now referred to as the Adams political family .
एडम्स थी the पिता  of John Quincy Adams , the sixth President of the United States .
His achievements have received greater recognition  in आधुनिक टाइम्स , हालांकि  his contributions were not initially as celebrated as those of other Founders .
Adams was the first U.S. president to reside in the building that eventually  became ज्ञात as the श्वेत हाउस  .
The United States  ten-dollar विधेयक ( $  10 ) is a denomination of United States currency .
the पहला u.S. सचिव of the राजकोष ( 1789–95 ) , सिकंदर हैमिल्टन , is फिलहाल प्रदर्शित on the obverse of the विधेयक , जबकि the u.S. राजकोष भवन is प्रदर्शित on the रिवर्स .
( Hamilton is one of two non-presidents featured on currently issued  u.S. बिल्स  .
The other is Benjamin Franklin , on the $ 100   bill .
Hamilton is one of only four people featured on U.S. paper currency ( 1861 to the present ) who was not born in the continental United States , as he  थी इससे  the West Indies .
The others are : Albert Gallatin ,  स्विट्ज़रलैंड  ( $ 500 1862/63 Legal Tender ) ; George Meade , Spain ( $ 1,000 1890/91 Treasury Note ) ; and Robert Morris , England ( $ 1,000 1862/63 Legal Tender ; $ 10 1878/80 Silver Certificate ) .
in जोड , kamehameha  I , appears on the 2008 Hawaii state quarter . )
All $  10  bills issued today are Federal Reserve Notes .
The Bureau of Engraving  और मुद्रण  says the average life of a $ 10 bill in circulation is 18 months before it is replaced due to wear .
लगभग  6 % of all US banknotes printed in 2009 were $ 10 bills .
Ten dollar bills are delivered by Federal  आरक्षित बैंको  in yellow straps .
The source of the face on the $ 10 bill is John Trumbull ’s 1805 portrait of Hamilton that belongs to the portrait collection of  नई यॉर्क  City Hall .
The $ 10 bill is the only U.S. paper currency in circulation in which the portrait faces to the left ( the $ 100,000 bill featured a portrait of  वुडरो विल्सन facing  to the left , but was used only for intra-government transactions ) .
A rider on a Yamaha Waverunner XL performing a high-speed turn   .
A jetboat is a boat propelled by a jet of water ejected from  the वापस of the शिल्प  .
Unlike a powerboat or motorboat that uses a propeller in the water below or behind the boat , a jetboat draws the water from under the boat into a pump inside the boat , then  expels it through a  nozzle at the stern .
Jetboats were originally designed by Sir William Hamilton ( who developed a  waterjet in 1954 ) लिये आपरेशन in the fast-flowing और उथले  rivers of New Zealand , specifically to overcome the problem of propellers striking rocks in such waters .
Previous attempts at waterjet propulsion had very short lifetimes , generally  due to the अकुशल  design of the units and the fact that they offered few advantages over conventional propellers .
Unlike these previous waterjet developments , such as Campini 's and the Hanley Hydrojet , Hamilton had a specific need for a propulsion system to operate in very-shallow  जल , और the waterjet proved to be the आदर्श समाधान  .
From this , the  लोकप्रियता of  the jet unit and jetboat increased rapidly .
Through further developments , it was found the waterjet offered several other advantages over  propellers लिये a चौड़ी दायरा of पोत  types , and as such , waterjets are used widely today for many high-speed vessels , including passenger ferries , rescue craft , patrol boats and offshore supply vessels .
jetboats हैं अत्यधिक  maneuverable , and many can , from full speed , be reversed and brought to a stop within little more than their own length , in a maneuver known as a `` crash stop '' .
The well known Hamilton turn or `` jet spin ''  is a high-speed maneuvre जहाँ the नाव 's इंजन throttle  is cut , the steering is turned sharply and the throttle opened again , causing the boat to spin quickly around with a large spray of water .
There is no  अभियान्त्रिकी  limit to the size of jetboats , though the validity of their use depends a lot on the type of application .
Classic prop-drives are generally more  कुशल और किफायती at कम speeds , up to परिचय , लकिन as नाव गति increases परे  this , the extra hull resistance generated by struts , rudders , shafts ( etc . ) means waterjets are more efficient in the 20-50 knot range ( up to ) .
Also , in situations with very large propellers turning at slow speeds ( such as tug boats ) , the equivalent size  waterjet  would be too big to be practical .
लिये ये कारण , the विशाल बहुमत  of waterjet units are installed in high-speed vessels and in particular situations where shallow draught , maneuverability , and load flexibility are main concerns .
The biggest jet-driven vessels  हैं मिला in सैन्य उपयोग  or the high-speed passenger/car ferry industry .
South Africa 's s ( approximately long )  हैं the biggest jet-propelled  vessels so far .
Even these German-built vessels are  सक्षम of performing  `` crash stops '' .
Uveitis is  broadly पारिभाषित  as inflammation of the uvea .
The uvea consists of the middle , pigmented , vascular structures of the eye and includes the iris , ciliary  देह , और choroid  .
Uveitis requires an urgent referral and thorough examination by an ophthalmologist or optometrist  साथ साथ तात्कालिक उपचार to कंट्रोल the सूजन  .
Eric  `` e  . ''
Murphy is a fictional  अक्षर on the  comedy-drama television series Entourage .
He is  निभाई  by Kevin Connolly .
The Shining is a 1980 psychological horror film produced  और निर्देशित by स्टेनली kubrick , co-written साथ उपन्यासकार डायने  Johnson , and starring Jack Nicholson , Shelley Duvall , Scatman Crothers , and Danny Lloyd .
The film is based on the Stephen King novel The  जगमगाता .
a लेखक , जोकर torrance , takes a जॉब as an off-season कार्यवाहक at an पृथक होटल  .
His young son possesses psychic abilities and is able to  देखिए बाते  from the past and future , such as the ghosts who inhabit the hotel .
Soon after settling in , the family is trapped in the hotel by a snowstorm , and Jack gradually becomes influenced by a supernatural presence ; he  उतरता  into madness and attempts to murder his wife and son .
नापसंद पिछला kubrick  films , which developed an audience gradually by building on word-of-mouth , The Shining was released as a mass-market film , opening at first in just two cities on Memorial Day , then nationwide a month later .
Although initial response  to the film  was mixed , later critical assessment was more favorable and it is now viewed as a classic of the horror genre .
Film director  Martin  Scorsese , writing in The Daily Beast , ranked it as one of the 11 scariest horror movies of all time .
Film critics , film  विद्यार्थी , और  Kubrick 's producer , Jan Harlan , have remarked on the enormous influence the film has had on popular culture .
The initial European release of The Shining was 25 minutes shorter than the American version , achieved by removing most of the  दृश्यों लेने प्लेस बाहर the environs of the होटल  .
आँगन कोला  Bottle
Patio Diet Cola was a brand of diet soda introduced by  पेप्सी  in 1963 .
It was  निर्मित in जवाब to  Diet Rite Cola , which was the first diet cola on the market .
फ़िटनेस प्रवर्तक  Debbie Drake was Patio Diet Cola 's spokesperson .
In 1964 , Patio released orange , grape , and  रूट बियर जायका  .
This flavor line was not meant to compete with brands like Orange  crush , लकिन बल्कि भरण  out the line .
Patio sodas were available in the  cold-bottle  market : grocery and mom-and-pop stores .
Advertising for Patio was comparatively scarce ; at the time , bottlers  यहूद regionally franchised ,  and related advertising was necessarily local .
In 1964 , Patio diet cola  became आहार पेप्सी .
The newly branded diet soda was advertised alongside Pepsi  साथ  the tagline `` Pepsi either way '' , which replaced the slogan `` Dances with flavor '' .
The short life span of Patio Diet cola makes it a great  जोड लिये  bottle collectors .
Most of the remaining Patio line of flavors  were  phased out by the early 1970s , while a few survived until the mid 70s
Infrastructure is basic physical and organizational structures needed for the operation of a society  or  enterprise , or the services and facilities necessary for an economy to function .
It can be generally defined as the set of  interconnected संरचनात्मक तत्व  that provide framework supporting an entire structure of development .
It is an important term for judging a country or region 's  विकास .
The term typically refers to the technical structures that support a society , such as roads , bridges , water supply , sewers , electrical grids , telecommunications , and so forth , and can be defined as `` the physical components of interrelated systems providing commodities and services essential to enable , sustain  ,  or enhance societal living conditions . ''
Viewed functionally , infrastructure facilitates the production of goods and services , and also the distribution of finished products to markets , as well as basic social services such as schools and hospitals ; for example , roads enable the transport of  कच्चा सामग्री to a फैक्टरी  .
In military parlance , the term refers to the buildings and permanent  संस्थापना  necessary for the support , redeployment , and operation of military forces .
To make it simple ,  अवसंरचना is anything कि is needed रोज  , an everyday item .
A graphical  प्रतिनिधित्व  of the ideal human karyotype
mitochondrial  DNA .
Human genetic variation is the genetic  मतभेद दोनो  within and among populations .
There may be multiple variants of any  दिए जीन  in the human population ( genes ) , leading to polymorphism .
Many genes are not polymorphic , meaning that only a single allele is present in the population : the gene is then said to  be  fixed .
No two humans are  genetically  identical .
Even monozygotic twins , who develop from one zygote , have infrequent genetic differences due to mutations  occurring दौरान विकास और जीन नक़ल क्रमांक विभिन्नता  .
Differences between individuals , even closely related individuals , are the key  to तकनीकों ऐसे  as genetic fingerprinting .
Alleles occur at different frequencies in different human populations ,  साथ populations  that are more geographically and ancestrally remote tending to differ more .
Causes of differences between individuals include the exchange of genes during meiosis and  विभिन्न  mutational events .
There are at least two reasons  क्यों जेनेटिक  variation exists between populations .
Natural selection may confer an   adaptive advantage to individuals in a specific environment if an allele provides a competitive advantage .
Alleles under  चयन हैं संभावित  to occur only in those geographic regions where they confer an advantage .
The second main cause of genetic variation is due to the high degree of neutrality of  सबसे mutations  .
Most mutations do not appear to have any selective effect one  रास्ता or the अन्य  on the organism .
The main cause is genetic drift , this is the  प्रभाव of  random changes in the gene pool .
In humans , founder effect and past small population size ( increasing the likelihood of genetic drift  ) may have था  an important influence in neutral differences between populations .
The theory that humans recently migrated out of Africa  supports  this .
The study of human genetic variation has both evolutionary significance and medical  अनुप्रयोग  .
It can help scientists understand  प्राचीन इंसान जनसांख्यिकी migrations as खूब  as how different human groups are biologically related to one another .
For  आयुर्विज्ञान  , study of human genetic variation may be important because some disease-causing alleles occur more often in people from specific geographic regions .
New findings show that each human has on average 60 new  mutations compared  to their parents .
Apart from  mutations  , many genes that may have aided humans in ancient times plague humans today .
For example , it is suspected that genes that allow humans to  अधिक efficiently प्रक्रम खाना हैं those  that make people susceptible to obesity and diabetes today .
Tea Party protesters on the West Lawn of the U.S. Capitol and the National Mall  at the करदाताओं कूच  on Washington on September 12 , 2009 .
The Tea Party movement is an American political movement that advocates  सख्त  adherence to the United States Constitution , reducing U.S. government spending and taxes , and reduction of the U.S. national debt and federal budget deficit .
The movement has been called partly conservative , partly libertarian , and partly  populist  .
The movement has sponsored protests and  समर्थित राजनैतिक उम्मीदवार  since 2009 .
The name of the movement is derived from the Boston Tea  पार्टी of 1773  , an iconic event in American history .
Anti-tax protesters in the United  राज्य have प्रायः  referred to the original Boston Tea Party for inspiration .
References to the Boston Tea Party  यहूद भाग of कर दिन विरोध आयोजित  throughout the 1990s and earlier .
By 2001 , a custom  था विकसित among  some conservative activists of mailing tea bags to legislators and other officials as a symbolic act .
The currencies of Puerto Rico closely follow the historic  विकास of प्यूर्टो  Rico .
As a colony of Spain and the United States , Puerto Rico was granted  the  use of both foreign and provincial currencies .
Following the Spanish  colonization in  1502 , Puerto Rico became an important port , with its own supply of gold .
However , as the mineral reserves ran empty  भीतर the सदी ,  the archipelago 's economy suffered .
The Spanish Crown issued the Situado Mexicano , which meant that a semi-regular shipment of gold from the Viceroyalty of New  स्पेन होता be भेजा to the द्वीप  , as a way to provide economic support .
Between 1636 and  1637 , फिलिप  IV of Spain imposed a tax which had to be paid using a revenue stamp .
Inspired by this , Puerto Rico began producing banknotes in 1766 , becoming the first colony to  छपाई 8- रियल banknotes  in the Spanish Empire and which in the Spanish government 's approval of subsequent issues .
The situado was  discontinued दौरान the 19th सदी  , creating an economic crisis , as a result of Mexico gaining its independence from Spain .
Salvador Meléndez Bruna , the colonial governor in office , ordered the issue of  प्रांतीय banknotes , बनाना the प्यूर्टो  Rican peso .
However ,  मुद्रण of  these banknotes ceased after 1815 .
During the following decades , foreign coins became  the फैली करेंसी  .
In the 1860s and 1870s ,  banknotes  reemerged .
On February 1 , 1890 ,   the Banco Español de Puerto Rico was inaugurated and began issuing banknotes .
The bank designed four  श्रेणी  and placed three in circulation under Spanish rule .
In 1895 ,  a royal डिक्री  ordered the production of provincial peso coins .
On August 13 , 1898 , the  spanish-american  War ended with Spain ceding Puerto Rico to the United States .
The  banco  Español de Puerto Rico was renamed Bank of Porto Rico and issued bills equivalent to the United States dollar , creating the Puerto Rican dollar .
In 1902 , the  पहला नेशनल  Bank of Porto Rico issued banknotes in a parallel manner .
Two more series were  जारी  until 1913 .
After Puerto Rico 's economy and monetary system was fully  एकीकृत  into the United States ' economic and monetary system , the Puerto Rican dollars were redeemed for those issued by the United States Treasury .
The peso and dollar have been followed by other contemporary issues , including commemorative banknotes , private  करेंसी , और a  quarter coin designed with Fort San Felipe del Morro in the face .
Pepsi ( stylized in lowercase as pepsi , formerly stylized in uppercase as PEPSI ) is a carbonated soft drink that  is उत्पादित और manufactured  by PepsiCo .
Created and developed in  1893 और introduced as ब्रैड 's पेय  , it was renamed as Pepsi-Cola on August 28 , 1898 , then to Pepsi in 1961 .
The Book of Ezekiel is the third of the Latter Prophets in the Hebrew Bible , following the books of Isaiah and Jeremiah and preceding  the  Book of the Twelve .
( The  अनुक्रम is somewhat  different in the Christian Old Testament ) .
It derives  इसके नाम इससे ,  and records the visions of , the 6th century BC priest and prophet Ezekiel .
According to the book , the prophet , exiled in Babylon , experienced a series of seven visions during the 22 years from 593 to 571 BC , a period which  spans the फाइनल विनाश  of Jerusalem in 586 .
The visions , and the book , are structured around three themes : ( 1 ) judgment on Israel ( chapters 1-24 ) ; ( 2  ) निर्णय on the राष्ट्र ( अध्याय 25-32 ) ; और भविष्य आशीर्वाद  for Israel ( chapters 33-48 ) .
New Orleans ( or , locally or ; ) is a major United States port and the largest city and  महानगर क्षेत्रफल in the राज्य of louisiana  .
the जनसांख्यिकी  of the city was 343,829 as of the 2010 U.S. Census .
The New Orleans metropolitan area ( New Orleans–Metairie–Kenner  महानगर सांख्यिकीय क्षेत्रफल ) था a जनसांख्यिकी of 1,167,764  in 2010 and was the 46th largest in the United States .
The  नई orleans–metairie–bogalusa  Combined Statistical Area , a larger trading area , had a 2010 population of 1,214,932 .
The city is named after Orléans , a city located on the Loire River in Centre , France , and is well known for its distinct French Creole architecture , as well as its cross-cultural  और बहुभाषी विरासत  .
New Orleans is also famous for its cuisine , music ( particularly as the birthplace of jazz ) , and its annual  जश्न  and festivals , most notably Mardi Gras .
The  नगर is  often referred to as the `` most unique '' in America .
New Orleans is located in southeastern Louisiana , straddling the  मिसिसिपी  River .
The  नगर और  Orleans Parish ( ) are .
The city and parish are bounded by the parishes of St. Tammany to the north , St. Bernard to  the ईस्ट , plaquemines  to the south and Jefferson to the south and west .
Lake Pontchartrain , part of which is included in the city limits , lies to the  उत्तर और झील borgne  lies to the east .
The National Birth Control League was a birth control   organization in the United States .
It was founded in March 1915 by Mary  dennett , क्लारा gruening  Stillman and Jessie Ashley .
Its main purpose was to overturn the  कानून जिससे बैन  contraceptives from the U.S. mails .
Campaigns were mounted in New York , but in 1919 the League was disbanded and reformed into the  voluntary parenthood  League .
Cancer , known medically as a malignant neoplasm , is a broad group of various diseases , all  involving  unregulated cell growth .
In cancer , cells divide and grow uncontrollably , forming malignant tumors , and invade  आसपास भाग of the देह .
The cancer may also spread to more distant parts of  the देह  through the lymphatic system or bloodstream .
Not all  tumors  are cancerous .
Benign tumors do not grow  uncontrollably  , do not invade neighboring tissues , and do not spread throughout the body .
There are over 200 different  ज्ञात cancers कि  afflict humans .
Determining what  कल्याणकारी  cancer is complex .
Many things are known to increase the risk of cancer , including tobacco use , certain infections , radiation ,  कमी of शारीरिक  activity , obesity , and environmental pollutants .
These can directly damage genes or  combine साथ मौजूदा  genetic faults within cells to cause the disease .
Approximately five to ten percent  of  cancers are entirely hereditary .
Cancer can be detected in a number of ways , including  the उपस्थिति of निश्चित लक्षण और  symptoms , screening tests , or medical imaging .
Once a possible  कर्कट  is detected it is diagnosed by microscopic examination of a tissue sample .
Cancer is usually treated with  कीमोथेरेपी  , radiation therapy and surgery .
The chances of surviving the disease vary greatly by the type and location of the cancer and the extent of  बीमारी  at the start of treatment .
जबकि कर्कट  can affect people of all ages , and a few types of cancer are more common in children , the risk of developing cancer generally increases with age .
In 2007 , cancer caused about 13 % of all human  मौतों  worldwide ( 7.9 million ) .
Rates are rising as more people live to an old age and as mass  जीवनशैली परिवर्तन  occur in the developing world .
वसन्त स्की touring on  Hardangervidda , Norway
Skiing is a recreational activity and competitive sport in  जिससे  the participant attaches long runners or skis to boots or shoes on the feet and uses them to travel on top of snow .
Aside from recreation and competition , skiing has been used for military purposes  और भी  travelling in areas that experience heavy snowfall .
Many types of competitive skiing events are  पहचाना by the अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Olympic Committee , and the International Ski Federation .
John  मेनार्ड keynes  , 1st Baron Keynes , CB , FBA ( ; 5 June 1883 – 21 April 1946 ) was a British economist whose ideas have fundamentally affected the theory and practice of modern macroeconomics , and informed the economic policies of governments .
He built on and greatly refined earlier work on the causes of business cycles , and is widely considered to be one of the  संस्थापकों of आधुनिक macroeconomics  and the most influential economist of the 20th century .
His ideas are the basis for the  स्कूल  of thought known as Keynesian economics , as well as its various offshoots .
In many ways , subsequent developments in 20th century economics can be viewed as either  भवन on keynes ' विचार or reacting विरूद्ध उन्हें  .
In the 1930s , Keynes spearheaded a revolution in economic thinking , overturning the older  विचार of neoclassical अर्थशास्त्र कि आयोजित कि  free markets would , in the short to medium term , automatically provide full employment , as long as workers were flexible in their wage demands .
Keynes instead  argued कि कुल माँग संकल्पित  the overall level of economic activity , and that inadequate aggregate demand could lead to prolonged periods of high unemployment .
He  advocated  the use of fiscal and monetary measures to mitigate the adverse effects of economic recessions and depressions .
following the  outbreak of the Second World War , Keynes 's ideas concerning economic policy were adopted by leading Western economies .
In 1942 , Keynes was awarded a  खानदानी peerage as सामन्त keynes of  Tilton in the County of Sussex .
Keynes died in 1946 , but during the 1950s and 1960s the  कामयाबी of keynesian अर्थशास्त्र resulted in लगभग  all capitalist governments adopting its policy recommendations .
Keynes 's influence waned in the 1970s , partly as a result of problems that began to afflict the Anglo-American economies from the start of the decade , and  partly क्युकी of critiques इससे मिल्टन फ्राइडमैन  and other economists who were pessimistic about the ability of governments to regulate the business cycle with fiscal policy .
However , the advent of the global financial crisis   in 2007 caused a resurgence in Keynesian thought .
Keynesian economics provided the theoretical underpinning for economic  नीतियों undertaken in जवाब  to the crisis by Presidents George W. Bush and Barack Obama of the United States , Prime Minister Gordon Brown of the United Kingdom , and other heads of governments .
In 1999 , Time magazine included Keynes in their list of the 100 most important and influential people of the 20th century , commenting that : `` His  कट्टरपंथी विचार कि सरकारें  should spend money they do n't have may have saved capitalism . ''
In addition to being an economist , Keynes was also a civil servant , a director of the British Eugenics Society , a director of the Bank of England , a patron of the arts and an art collector , a part of the Bloomsbury  समूह of intellectuals  , an advisor to several charitable trusts , a writer , a philosopher , a private investor , and a farmer .
This  1768 parchment ( 612×502  mm ) by Jekuthiel Sofer emulated the 1675 Ten Commandments at the Amsterdam Esnoga synagogue .
The Ten Commandments , also known as the  decalogue  , are a set of biblical laws relating to ethics and worship , which play a fundamental role in Judaism , Islam and Christianity .
They include instructions to  इबादत  only God , to keep the sabbath holy and prohibitions against idolatry , blasphemy , murder , theft , deception and adultery .
Different groups follow slightly different traditions for  interpreting और  numbering them .
The Ten  आयतें appear twice  in the Hebrew Bible , in the books of Exodus and Deuteronomy .
According to the story in Exodus , God inscribed them on two stone tablets ,  जिससे he दिया  to Moses on Mount Sinai .
Modern scholarship has found likely influences in Hittite and Mesopotamian laws and treaties , but is divided over exactly  when  the Ten Commandments were written and who wrote them .
The discography of the English alternative rock band The Smiths consists of four studio albums , one extended play  ( EP  ) , one live album , ten compilation albums , twenty singles , one video album and fourteen music videos on the Rough Trade , Sire and WEA record labels .
The band was formed in 1982  in मैनचेस्टर  by vocalist Morrissey , guitarist Johnny Marr , bass player Andy Rourke and drummer Mike Joyce .
Despite being championed by BBC Radio 1 disc jockey John Peel , the band  's डेब्यू सिंगल ,  `` Hand in Glove `` ( May 1983 ) , failed to chart .
Its follow-up , `` This  आकर्षक man `` ( अक्तूबर  1983 ) , met with critical acclaim and reached number twenty-five on the UK Singles Chart .
The Smiths ' cult status was followed by mainstream  कामयाबी in 1984  , as they reached number twelve in the UK with the `` What Difference Does It Make ? `` single and reached number two on the UK Albums Chart with their debut album , The Smiths ( 1984 ) .
Their next three singles all reached the top twenty of the charts in the UK , helping to  consolidate उनके पिछला  chart success .
The next  स्टुडियो एल्बम , मांस is हत्या ( 1985 ) , पहुँचे the शीर्ष of the अंग्रेजों चार्ट ; however , the तभी सिंगल to be released इससे the एल्बम , `` कि चुटकुला is n't मजेदार anymore `` ( 1985 ) , विफल to ब्रेक the uk शीर्ष 40 .
Returning to form , The Smiths ' next six singles all reached the higher than number thirty in the UK  और उनके  third album , The Queen Is Dead ( 1986 ) , reached number two in the UK .
Despite the band 's chart success , Marr left the group in August 1987 due to a strained relationship with  morrissey  .
Failing to find a replacement , The Smiths disbanded by the time their final studio album , Strangeways , Here We Come , was  released  in September that year .
Strangeways , Here We Come reached number two in  the uk और became the बैंड 's highest-charting  release in the United States when it reached number fifty-five on the Billboard 200 .
In early 1992 , WEA acquired  the संपूर्ण वापस  catalogue of The Smiths and produced two compilations – Best ... I and ... Best II – the first of which reached the top of the UK Albums Chart .
WEA released two further singles compilations in 1995 and 2001 , with a further compilation ,  the ध्वनि of the smiths ,  released in November 2008 .
Gone with the Wind is a novel written by Margaret Mitchell , first  प्रकाशित in  1936 .
It is often placed  in the  literary sub-genre of the historical romance novel .
however , it रै महरूम argued the अनोखा  is a `` near miss '' and does not contain all of the elements of the romance genre , making it simply a historical novel .
The story is set in Clayton County , Georgia , and Atlanta during  the  American Civil War and Reconstruction .
It depicts the experiences of Scarlett O'Hara , the spoiled daughter of a well-to-do plantation owner , who must use every means at her disposal to come out of the poverty she finds herself in after  शरमन  's `` March to the Sea '' .
Margaret Mitchell began writing Gone with the Wind in 1926 to pass the time while recovering from an  auto-crash चोट कि refused  to heal .
In April 1935 , Harold  Latham  of Macmillan , an editor who was looking for new fiction , read what she had written and saw that it could be a best-seller .
After Latham agreed to publish the book , Mitchell worked for another six months checking the historical references ,  और rewrote the खोलने अध्याय  several times .
Mitchell and her husband John Marsh , a copy editor by  व्यापार ,  edited the final version of the novel .
Mitchell wrote the book 's final moments first , and then wrote the events  कि led  up to it .
As to what became of her lovers , Rhett and Scarlett , after the novel ended ,  मिशेल किया नहीं जान  , and said , `` For all I know , Rhett may have found someone else who was less difficult . ''
Mitchell received the Pulitzer  पुरस्कार  for Fiction for the book in 1937 .
The book was adapted  into a 1939  American film .
Gone with the Wind  is the तभी  novel by Mitchell published during her lifetime .
Endodontics ( from the Greek endo `` inside '' ; and odons `` tooth '' ) is one of the dental  specialties पहचाना by the अमरीकी दंत संघ  , Royal College of Dentists of Canada , and Royal Australasian College of Dental Surgeons , and deals with the tooth pulp and the tissues surrounding the root of a tooth .
endodontists perform a किस्में of प्रक्रियाओं सहित  endodontic therapy ( commonly known as `` root canal therapy '' ) , endodontic retreatment , surgery , treating cracked teeth , and treating dental trauma .
रूट कनाल चिकित्सा  is one of the most common procedures .
If the pulp ( containing nerves , arterioles , venules , lymphatic tissue , and fibrous tissue ) becomes diseased or   injured , endodontic treatment is required to save the tooth .
Serial Attached SCSI ( SAS ) is a point-to-point serial protocol   that moves data to and from computer storage devices such as hard drives and tape drives .
SAS replaces the older Parallel SCSI ( pronounced `` scuzzy '' ) bus technology that first  appeared  in the mid-1980s .
SAS , like its predecessor , uses the  मानक  SCSI command set .
SAS offers backward compatibility with  second-generation sata  drives .
SATA 3 Gbit/s drives may be connected to SAS backplanes , but SAS  ड्राइव can नहीं कनेक्ट to sata  backplanes .
The T10 technical committee of the International Committee for Information Technology  मानकों  ( INCITS ) develops and maintains the SAS protocol ; the SCSI Trade Association ( SCSITA ) promotes the technology .
Part of the constitutional provision  as  it appeared in 1787
Status as a natural-born  नागरिक of the संयुक्त राज्य is एक of the  eligibility requirements established in the United States Constitution for election to the office of President or Vice President .
This  आवश्यकता थी  intended to protect the nation from foreign influence .
The Constitution does not define the phrase  natural-born नागरिक ,  and various opinions have been offered over time regarding its precise meaning .
A 2011 Congressional Research  सेवा  report stated
The natural-born-citizen clause has been mentioned in passing in several decisions of the United States Supreme Court and lower courts dealing with  the सवाल of पात्रता लिये नागरिकता  by birth , but the Supreme Court has never directly addressed the question of a specific presidential or vice-presidential candidate 's eligibility as a natural-born citizen .
Kurtis Eugene `` Kurt '' Warner ( born June  22 , 1971 ) is a पूर्व  American football player .
He  निभाई क्वार्टरबैक  for three National Football League ( NFL ) teams : the St. Louis Rams , the New York Giants , and the Arizona Cardinals .
He was originally signed by the Green Bay Packers as an undrafted free agent in 1994  बाद playing  college football at Northern Iowa .
Warner  होता go  on to be considered the best undrafted player of all time , following a 12-year career regarded as one of the greatest stories in NFL history .
Warner first attained stardom while playing for the St. Louis  मेढ़ों इससे 1998 to  2003 , where he won two NFL MVP awards in 1999 and 2001 as well as the Super Bowl MVP award in Super Bowl XXXIV .
He led the 2008 Arizona Cardinals to Super Bowl XLIII ( the franchise 's first Super Bowl berth ) , and owns the three highest single-game passing  yardage योग in सुपर  Bowl history .
Warner currently holds the seventh-highest career passer rating of all-time ( 93.7 ) , and the  third-highest करियर पूर्णता प्रतिशत in एनएफएल इतिहास  with 65.5 % .
In 13  करियर playoff खेल , warner बाँधने पहला  all-time in completion percentage ( 66.5 % ) , yards per attempt ( 8.55 ) , and second in passer rating ( 102.8 ) .
He also holds the highest completion percentage for a single game during the regular season , at 92.3 percent ( 24/26 ) , on September  20 ,  2009 , against the Jacksonville Jaguars .
He announced his  रिटायरमेंट  on January 29 , 2010. < ref name='CNN 2010-01-29 ' >
Janet Kay Ruthven Hagan ( ; born May 26 , 1953 ) is the junior United States Senator from North Carolina , in  दफ्तर चूंकि जनवरी  2009 .
previously वो परोसा in  the North Carolina Senate from 1999 to 2009 .
वो is a सदस्य  of the Democratic Party and is viewed as a moderate member of her party .
When Hagan defeated Republican incumbent Elizabeth Dole in the 2008 United States Senate election , she became the first woman to defeat an  लाज़िम स्त्री in a  Senate election .
The Heisman Memorial Trophy Award ( usually known colloquially as the Heisman Trophy or the Heisman )  ,  is awarded annually to the player deemed the most outstanding player in collegiate football .
It was created  in 1935 as the शहर एथलेटिक क्लबों ट्रॉफी और renamed in 1936 following the  death of the Club 's athletic director , John Heisman ( former Brown University and University of Pennsylvania player ; head football coach at Oberlin College , Auburn University , Clemson University , Rice University , and the University of Pennsylvania ; and football , basketball , and baseball head coach and athletic director at Georgia Tech ) .
The award is presented by the Heisman Trophy Trust in early December before the postseason bowl   games .
It is the oldest of several  overall  awards in college football , including the Maxwell Award , Walter Camp Award , and the AP Player of the Year .
The Heisman and the AP Player of the Year are the only awards to honor the most outstanding player , while the Maxwell Award and Walter  शिविर पुरस्कार recognize the बेहतरीन खिलाड़ी , और the आर्ची griffin पुरस्कार recognizes  the most valuable player .
The  संयुक्त राष्ट्र  Command ( UNC ) is the unified command structure for the multinational military forces supporting the Republic of Korea ( South Korea or ROK ) during and after the Korean War .
After troops of the Democratic People 's Republic of Korea ( North Korea or DPRK ) invaded South Korea on June 25 , 1950 , the  संयुक्त राष्ट्र सुरक्षा परिषद अपनाया रेज़ोल्यूशन 82 कॉलिंग on उत्तर  Korea to cease hostilities and withdraw to the 38th parallel .
On  जून 27 , 1950 , it अपनाया  Resolution 83 , recommending that members of the United Nations provide assistance to the Republic of Korea `` to repel the armed attack and to restore international peace and security to the area '' .
Security Council Resolution 84 , adopted on July 7 , 1950 , recommended that members providing military forces and other assistance to South Korea `` make such forces and  अन्य सहायता उपलब्धियाँ to a एकीकृत  command under the United States of America '' .
Although the resolutions suggested the forces under the UNC were `` United Nations forces '' , and  संयुक्त राष्ट्र itself could be माना a belligerent , in  practice the United Nations exercised no control over the combat forces , which were controlled by the United States .
Most observers concluded that the forces under the  unc यहूद नहीं in विधि संयुक्त  Nations troops , and the acts of the UNC were not the acts of the United Nations .
The UNC can be regarded as an alliance of national armies , operating under the collective  सही of self-defense  .
On August 29 , 1950 , the  अंग्रेजों  Commonwealth 's 27th Infantry Brigade arrived at Busan to join the UNC , which until then included only ROK and U.S. forces .
The 27th Brigade moved into the Naktong River  लकीर  west of Daegu .
Troop units from other countries of the UN followed  in  rapid succession ; Australia , Belgian United Nations Command , Canada , Colombia , Ethiopia , France , Greece , Luxembourg , the Netherlands , New Zealand , the Philippines , Thailand and Turkey .
The  संघ of दक्षिण  Africa provided air units which fought alongside the air forces of other member nations .
Denmark , India , Norway , and  स्वीडन provided चिकित्सा  units .
Italy provided a hospital ,  भी हालांकि it  was not a UN member .
The United Nations Command and the  chinese-north  Korean Command signed the Korean Armistice Agreement on 27 July 1953 , ending the heavy fighting .
The armistice agreement established  the  Military Armistice Commission ( MAC ) , consisting of representatives of the two signatories , to supervise the implementation of the armistice terms .
The North Korean-Chinese MAC  रै महरूम replaced by panmumjon प्रतिनिधि  under exclusive North Korean management .
Regular meetings have been stopped ,  हालांकि ड्यूटी  officers of Joint Security Area , commonly known as the Truce Village of Panmunjom , from each side meet regularly .
Lincoln Heights is an American family  नाटक टेलीविज़न श्रेणी परिचय  Eddie Sutton , a Mission Vista police officer who moves his family back to his old neighborhood , Lincoln Heights , to start a new life and to help out his old neighborhood .
It is a dangerous place to raise a  परिवार , और through the अनेक  trials the family goes through , they soon learn that settling in is not as easy as it seems .
जबकि अधिकारी सटन struggles to cope साथ  every day life as a street cop in Los Angeles , his kids try to fit in at their new schools and with their new neighbors .
The show premiered January 8 , 2007 on the ABC Family network with 13 episodes  ordered लिये  the first season .
It was approved for a second season  ,  which premiered September 4 , 2007 .
Vanessa Hudgens ' song , Say OK had been  प्रयुक्त in a वाणिज्यिक  to promote the second season .
To promote the third season , they showed clips of Cassie and  चार्ल्स 's संबंध to the सोंग  , Crush by the American Idol 's seventh season runner-up , David Archuleta .
To promote season 4 , they 're using the  सोंग ,  Avalanche by Marie Digby .
The show 's theme song was written and performed by bassist Stanley Clarke and  singer-songwriter  Blaire Reinhard .
On January 29 , 2010 , ABC Family announced the  रद्दीकरण  of the series after four seasons .
A Christian denomination is an  identifiable धार्मिक देह अंतर्गत a आम नाम , ढांचा  , and doctrine within Christianity .
In the  परंपरागत परंपरा , चर्च  are divided often along ethnic and linguistic lines , into separate churches and traditions .
Technically , divisions  between एक समूह और another  are defined by doctrine and church authority .
Issues such as the nature of Jesus , the authority of apostolic succession , eschatology ,  और papal primacy पृथक  one denomination from another .
The Roman Catholic Church is the largest denomination with over 1.1 billion members , over half of all  ईसाइयों विश्वव्यापी , बनाना it the largest  denomination for any religion worldwide ( although the church does not view itself as a denomination , but as the original pre-denominational church ) .
Protestant denominations comprise  roughly 38–39 % of ईसाइयों विश्वव्यापी , और साथ  the Catholics , Protestants , Anglicans , and other closely related denominations comprise Western Christianity .
The Eastern Orthodox Church , Oriental Orthodox Churches and the Assyrian Church of the East are  माना  Eastern Christian denominations .
Western Christian denominations prevail  in पश्चिमी यूरोपीय और इसके पूर्व  colonies .
Eastern Christian denominations are represented mostly in Eastern Europe  , the मध्य ईस्ट और उत्तर  Africa .
Christians have various doctrines about the Church , the body of faithful that they believe was established by Jesus  मसीह , और कैसा the दैवी गिरिजाघर corresponds  to Christian denominations .
Both the Catholics and the Eastern Orthodox consider each of themselves solely to faithfully  represent the एक पावन कैथोलिक और अपोस्टोलिक  Church to the exclusion of the other .
Protestants separated from the Catholic Church because of theologies and practices that they considered to be in  उल्लंघन of उनके निर्वचन  .
Generally , members of the various denominations acknowledge each other as Christians , at least to the extent that they have mutually recognized baptisms  और acknowledge  historically orthodox views including the Divinity of Jesus and doctrines of sin and salvation , even though doctrinal and ecclesiological obstacles hinder full communion between churches .
Since the reforms surrounding Vatican II , the Catholic Church has referred to  प्रोटोस्टेंट समुदायों  as `` denominations '' , while reserving the term `` church '' for apostolic churches , including the Eastern Orthodox ( see subsistit in and branch theory ) .
There are however some non-denominational Christians  जो  do not follow any particular branch .
The panda ( Ailuropoda  melanoleuca , lit  .
`` black and white cat-foot '' ) , also known as the giant panda to distinguish it from  the unrelated रेड पांडा  , is a bear native to central-western and south western China .
It is easily recognized by the large  , distinctive  black patches around its eyes , over the ears , and across its round body .
Though it belongs to the order  carnivora , the पांडा  's diet is 99 % bamboo .
Pandas in the wild will occasionally eat  अन्य grasses , जंगली tubers , or भी मांस  in the form of birds , rodents or carrion .
In captivity , they may receive honey , eggs , fish , yams ,  झाड़ी पत्ते , संतरे , or  bananas along with specially prepared food .
The giant panda lives in a few mountain ranges in central China , mainly in Sichuan  प्रांत , लकिन भी  in the Shaanxi and Gansu provinces .
As a result of farming , deforestation and other  विकास , the पांडा रै महरूम  driven out of the lowland areas where it once lived .
The panda is a conservation reliant  endangered  species .
A 2007 report shows 239 pandas   living in captivity inside China and another 27 outside the country .
Wild population estimates vary ; one estimate shows that there are about 1,590 individuals living in the wild , while a 2006 study via DNA analysis estimated that this figure could be as high as  2,000 to  3,000 .
Some reports also show that the number of  pandas in the जंगली is on the  rise .
However ,  the आईयूसीएन करता नहीं  believe there is enough certainty yet to reclassify the species from Endangered to Vulnerable .
जबकि the ड्रैगन रै प्रायः  served as China 's national emblem , internationally the panda appears at least as commonly .
As such , it is becoming widely used  within  China in international contexts , for example the five Fuwa mascots of the Beijing Olympics .
The Kite Runner is a 2007  अमरीकी नाटक फिल्मी निर्देशित by मार्क  Forster based on the novel of the same name by Khaled Hosseini .
It tells the story of Amir , a well-to-do boy from the Wazir Akbar Khan district of Kabul , who is tormented by the  guilt of abandoning उसके dost हसन , the बेटे of उसके पिता 's  Hazara servant .
The story  is नियत विरूद्ध a backdrop of उग्र कार्यक्रम  , from the fall of the monarchy in Afghanistan through the Soviet military intervention , the mass exodus of Afghan refugees to Pakistan and the United States , and the Taliban regime .
Though  सबसे of the फिल्मी is नियत  in Afghanistan , these parts were mostly shot in Kashgar , China , due to the dangers of filming in Afghanistan at the time .
The majority of the film 's dialogue is in Dari , with the remainder  बोला in अंग्रेज़ी  .
The child actors are native speakers ,  लकिन अनेक  adult actors had to learn Dari .
Filming  लपेटा  up on December 21 , 2006 , and the film was expected to be released on November 2 , 2007 .
However , after  चिंता लिये the सुरक्षा of the यंग अभिनेताओं  in the film due to fears of violent reprisals to the sexual nature of some scenes in which they appear , its release date was pushed back six weeks to December 14 , 2007 .
The Kite Runner  थी released  on DVD on March 25 , 2008 .
A HD DVD release was announced for the same date , but was canceled following the format 's  निधन  .
The film was nominated for the Golden Globe  पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन विदेशी  Language Film in 2007 .
The film 's score by Alberto Iglesias was nominated for Best Original Score at the Golden Globes and the Academy  पुरस्कार  .
The legality of cannabis  varies इससे देश  to country .
Possession of cannabis is illegal in most countries and has been since the beginning of   widespread cannabis prohibition in the late 1930s .
However , many countries have decriminalized the  कब्ज़ा of छोटी quantities  of cannabis , particularly in North America , South America and Europe .
Furthermore , possession is legal or effectively legal in the Netherlands , North Korea and would be in the U.S. states of Colorado and Washington if it were not for federal law , which governs persons in all states   .
The medicinal use of cannabis is legal in a  क्रमांक of देशों , सहित कनाडा  , the Czech Republic and Israel .
While federal law in the United States bans all sale and possession of cannabis , enforcement varies widely at the state level and some states have established medicinal marijuana programs in that contradict federal law ; two  राज्य ( कोलोराडो और वॉशिंगटन ) have repealed उनके कानून prohibiting the recreational उपयोग of कैनबिस और replaced उन्हें साथ a नियामक  regime , also contrary to federal statute .
Some countries have laws that are not as vigorously prosecuted as others but , apart from the countries  कि प्रस्ताव अभिगम to चिकित्सा मारिजुआना , सबसे  countries have various penalties ranging from lenient to very severe .
Some infractions are taken more seriously in some countries than  अन्य in लिहाज़ to the  cultivation , use , possession or transfer of cannabis for recreational use .
A few jurisdictions have lessened penalties for possession of small  quantities  of cannabis , making it punishable by confiscation and a fine , rather than imprisonment .
Some jurisdictions/ drug courts use mandatory treatment  कार्यक्रम  for young or frequent users , with freedom from narcotic drugs as the goal and a few jurisdictions permit cannabis use for medicinal purposes .
There   are also changes in a more restrictive direction as in Canada .
Drug tests to detect cannabis are increasingly  आम in अनेक देशों और have  resulted in jail sentences and people losing their jobs .
However , simple possession can carry long jail  वाक्य in कुछ देशों  , particularly in parts of East Asia and Southeast Asia where the sale of cannabis may lead to a sentence of life in prison or even execution .
loxahatchee is a  community located in Palm Beach County , Florida , United States .
It is located in the  क्षेत्रों उत्तर of वेलिंगटन और वेस्ट और उत्तरपश्चिम  of Royal Palm Beach , Florida and approximately west of West Palm Beach .
Loxahatchee is also the name of  the पोस्ट दफ्तर कि serves इस क्षेत्रफल  , which is under the zip code of 33470 .
the नाम loxahatchee  means `` turtle river . ''
Loxahatchee is located within the Indian  Trails  Improvement District and the Loxahatchee Groves Water Control District .
Lion Country Safari , a drive-through safari park , is  स्तिथ  in Loxahatchee .
In 2006 , the state of Florida approved incorporation of part of Loxahatchee as the Town of  loxahatchee groves to become  the 38th municipality in Palm Beach County .
The main reason for incorporating  थी to बेहतर protect  the area from encroaching growth and to preserve the rural character of the neighborhood .
Perhaps the most  ग्रामीण क्षेत्रफल भीतर a बंद निकटता  to West Palm Beach , with lot sizes range from 1-20 acres .
Along with The Acreage , it is notable for loose land  प्रतिबंध और the देशी और exotic एनिमल उपस्थिति  is quite notable .
Seminole Ridge High  स्कूल  serves the area .
The Canadian Citizenship Test is a test , administered by Citizenship and Immigration Canada ( CIC ) , that is required for all applicants for Canadian citizenship who are aged between 18 and 54 and who meet the  मौलिक आवश्यकताएँ लिये नागरिकता  .
The test is available in both French and English , the  आधिकारिक भाषाएं  of Canada .
Renaissance  क्रूज़ , originally  founded in 1989 owned by Fearnley & Eger Rederi in Oslo - Norway , later purchased by Edward Rudner ( founder of Alamo Car Rental ) as the company faltered during the Gulf War .
They operated year-round cruise itineraries to the Mediterranean , the  यूनानी isles , tahiti और  the South Pacific , Northern Europe and Scandinavia .
The company ceased operations on 25  सितंबर 2001 और  accommodated up to 220,000 guests in 2000 .
While the company had been in poor  वित्तीय स्वास्थ्य लिये काफी कुछ समय ,  the economic decline resulting from the September 11th terrorist attacks are credited with the demise of this cruise line .
The fleet is listed  अंतर्गत  List of cruise ships .
It was headquartered in  फोर्ट lauderdale  , Florida .
Epithelium is one of the four basic types of animal tissue ,  साथ साथ  connective tissue , muscle tissue and nervous tissue .
epithelial  tissues line the cavities and surfaces of structures throughout the body , and also form many glands .
Functions of epithelial cells include secretion  , चयनात्मक अवशोषण  , protection , transcellular transport and detection of sensation .
In Greek `` ἐπί '' ( `` epi ''  )  means `` on '' or `` upon '' , and `` θηλή '' ( `` thēlē '' ) means `` nipple '' .
Epithelial layers are avascular , so they must receive nourishment via diffusion of substances from the underlying connective tissue  , through  the basement membrane .
Epithelia can also be  व्यवस्थित  into clusters of cells that function as exocrine and endocrine glands .
Kent E. Hovind ( born January 15 , 1953 )  is an अमरीकी यंग  Earth creationist .
Hovind has spoken on creation  विज्ञान  and has aimed to convince listeners to reject theories of evolution , geophysics , and cosmology in favor of his interpretation of the Genesis creation narrative from the Bible .
Hovind 's views are  contradicted by वैज्ञानिक प्रमाण और कुछ  of his ideas have also been criticized by young Earth creationist organizations such as Answers in Genesis .
Hovind established the Creation Science Evangelism in 1991 , and frequently spoke on young Earth creationism at seminars at private schools  और चर्च , debates , और on  radio and television broadcasts .
Since January 2007 , Hovind has been serving a ten-year prison  वाक्य बाद होने convicted  of 58 federal counts , including 12 tax offenses , one count of obstructing federal agents , and 45 counts of structuring cash transactions .
He is incarcerated at the  संघीय correctional  Institution at Berlin , New Hampshire .
बहू साथ  Bindi decorated forehead
A bindi (  , इससे संस्कृत bindu ,  meaning `` a drop , small particle , dot '' ) , or a pottu/bottu ( in Tamil , Telugu , and Malayalam ) is a forehead decoration worn in South Asia ( particularly India , Bangladesh , Nepal , Sri Lanka and Mauritius ) and Southeast Asia .
Traditionally it  is a उज्जवल बिन्दु of रेड रंग लागू in the बीच of the माथे बंद to the eyebrows , लकिन it can भी consist of a चिह्न or टुकड़ा of आभूषण worn at इस स्थान .
The New York gubernatorial election of 2010 was held on Tuesday , November  2 , 2010 , to elect the राज्यपाल of नई यॉर्क , to serve a four-year  term that began in January 2011 .
Incumbent Democratic Governor David Paterson , elected as Lieutenant Governor in 2006 as the running mate of former Governor Eliot  स्पिट्जर  , chose not to run for a full-term .
On November 2 , New York Attorney General and Democrat Andrew  cuomo पराजित  Republican Carl Paladino .
ग्रीन पार्टी प्रत्याशी होवी हॉकिन्स प्राप्त over 57,000 मत , allowing the नई यॉर्क ग्रीन पार्टी to be सूचीबद्ध on the बैलट लिये the अगला 4 सालो  .
the प्रमुख  cast of Dragon Ball at the end of the manga .
The Dragon Ball manga and anime series features an  extensive डाल of वर्ण  created by Akira Toriyama .
The series  takes प्लेस in a fictional ब्रह्मांड , the वही as toriyama 's पिछला  series Dr. Slump , and follows the adventures of martial artist Son Goku from childhood to adulthood as he searches for the seven spheres known as the Dragon Balls , used to summon a wish-granting dragon .
During the course of the story , he encounters allies such as Bulma , Yamcha , Kuririn and Trunks , rivals such as Tenshinhan , Piccolo and Vegeta , and enemies such as  Freeza and  Cell .
While  अनेक of the वर्ण हैं इंसानो  with superhuman strength and/or supernatural abilities , the cast also includes anthropomorphic animals and later , extraterrestrial lifeforms .
The series also includes depictions of the afterlife , with several characters being  देवताओं कि govern  the universe .
250px
The Comanche are a Plains Indian tribe whose historic territory , known as Comancheria  , consisted  of present day eastern New Mexico , southern Colorado , northeastern Arizona , southern Kansas , all of Oklahoma , and most of northwest Texas .
The Comanche people are  नामांकित in the federally  recognized Comanche Nation , in Oklahoma .
Historically , the   Comanches were hunter-gatherers with a horse culture .
There may have been as many as 45,000 Comanches in the  late  18th century .
Today , the Comanche Nation Comanche  जनजातीय नामांकन संख्याएँ 15,191 साथ  approximately 7,763 members residing in the Lawton – Fort Sill and surrounding areas of Southwest Oklahoma .
The Comanche Nation Homecoming Powwow is held annually in Walters ,  ओक्लाहोमा in mid-july  .
The Comanche  spoke the comanche  language , a Numic language of the Uto-Aztecan family , sometimes classified as a Shoshone dialect ; however , only about 1 % of Comanches speak it today .
Ethan Frome is a novel published in 1911  by  the Pulitzer Prize -winning American author Edith Wharton .
It is set in the fictitious town of Starkfield ,  मैसाचुसेट्स  .
The novel was adapted into a film , Ethan  frome  , in 1993 .
Times Square Studios ( TSS ) is an  अमरीकी टेलीविज़न  studio located in the Times Square neighborhood of the Manhattan borough of New York City , New York .
The studio is best known as the  उत्पादन  home of ABC News ' Good Morning America ( GMA ) , a morning news and talk program and segments for GMA on ABC News Now .
The Las  वेगास स्ट्रिप  World of Coca-Cola museum in 2003
Coca-Cola is a carbonated soft  पेय बेची  in stores , restaurants , and vending machines in every country except Cuba and North Korea .
It is produced by The Coca-Cola Company of Atlanta , Georgia , and is often referred to simply  as कोक ( a पंजीकृत ट्रेडमार्क of the coca-cola  Company in the United States since March 27 , 1944 ) .
Originally intended as a patent medicine when it  थी invented in the लेट 19th सदी by जॉन pemberton , coca-cola थी खरीदा आउट by बिजनेसमैन  Asa Griggs Candler , whose marketing tactics led Coke to its dominance of the world soft-drink market throughout the 20th century .
The company produces concentrate , which is then sold to licensed  coca-cola bottlers  throughout the world .
the bottlers , जो थाम territorially विशेष अनुबंध साथ the कम्पनी , उपज समाप्त उत्पाद in डिब्बे और बोतलों इससे the concentrate in संयोजन साथ filtered जल और sweeteners  .
The  bottlers तब बेचें , वितरित और merchandise coca-cola to खुदरा स्टोर्स और वेंडिंग मशीने .
Such bottlers include Coca-Cola Enterprises , which is the  largest सिंगल coca-cola  bottler in North America and western Europe .
The Coca-Cola Company also sells concentrate for soda  स्रोतों to प्रमुख  restaurants and food service distributors .
The Coca-Cola Company has , on occasion ,  introduced अन्य  cola drinks under the Coke brand name .
The most common of these is Diet Coke , with others including Caffeine-Free Coca-Cola ,  आहार कोक caffeine-free , coca-cola  Cherry , Coca-Cola Zero , Coca-Cola Vanilla , and special versions with lemon , lime or coffee .
Based on Interbrand 's best global  ब्रांड  2011 , Coca-Cola was the world 's most valuable brand .
Types of  bar-lines
In musical notation , a bar ( or  माप ) is a खण्ड of समय पारिभाषित by a दिए क्रमांक of बीट्स  , each of which are assigned a particular note value .
Dividing music into bars provides regular reference points to pin point locations within a  टुकड़ा  of music .
It also makes written music easier to follow , since each bar of staff symbols can be  पढ़ा और निभाई as a  batch .
Typically , a piece consists of several bars of the same length , and in modern musical notation the number of beats in each bar is specified at the beginning of the  स्कोर by the शीर्ष क्रमांक of a समय  signature ( such as 3/4 ) , while the bottom number indicates the note value of the beat ( the beat has a quarter note value in the 3/4 example ) .
The word bar  is अधिक  common in British English , and the word measure is more common in American English , although musicians generally understand both usages .
In American English , although the words bar and measure are often used interchangeably the correct use of the word 'bar ' refers only to the vertical line itself  , जबकि the शब्द  'measure ' refers to the beats contained between bars .
In international usage , it is equally correct to speak of  बार संख्याएँ  and measure numbers , e.g . ‘bars 9–16’ or ‘mm . 9–16’ .
Along the same lines , it  is हिकमत  to reserve the abbreviated form ‘bb .
3–4’ इत्यादि . लिये  beats only ; bars should be referred to by name in full .
The first metrically  पूरा माप  within a piece of music is called ‘bar 1’ or ‘m . 1’ .
When the piece  begins साथ  an anacrusis ( an incomplete measure at the head of a piece of music ) , ‘bar 1’ or ‘m . 1’ is the following measure .
The 19.9 MW Gemasolar solar plant in Spain features 15 hours of storage and can supply power  24 घंटों a दिन  .
Solar energy , radiant light and heat from  the सूर्य , रै महरूम harnessed by इंसानो चूंकि  ancient times using a range of ever-evolving technologies .
Solar energy technologies include solar heating , solar photovoltaics , solar thermal electricity , solar architecture and artificial  photosynthesis , जिससे can मेक considerable  contributions to solving some of the most urgent energy problems the world now faces .
Solar technologies are broadly  characterized as either  passive solar or active solar depending on the way they capture , convert and distribute solar energy .
Active  सौर तकनीकों  include the use of photovoltaic panels and solar thermal collectors to harness the energy .
Passive solar techniques include orienting a building to the Sun , selecting materials with favorable  थर्मल द्रव्यमान or लाइट dispersing  properties , and designing spaces that naturally circulate air .
In 2011 , the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय उर्जा एजेंसी कहा कि `` the विकास  of affordable , inexhaustible and clean solar energy technologies will have huge longer-term benefits .
It will increase countries’ energy security through reliance on an indigenous , inexhaustible and mostly import-independent resource , enhance sustainability , reduce pollution , lower the costs of  mitigating जलवायु बदलें  , and keep fossil fuel prices lower than otherwise .
These  लाभ  are global .
hence the अतिरिक्त लागत of the प्रोत्साहन  for early deployment should be considered learning investments ; they must be wisely spent and need to be widely shared '' .
Primary care may be provided in community health  केंद्रों  .
Primary care is the health care  दिए by a स्वास्थ्य परवाह  provider .
Typically this provider acts as the principal point of consultation for patients within a  स्वास्थ्य परवाह प्रणाली और निर्देशांक  other specialists that the patient may need .
Such a professional can be a primary care physician , such as a general practitioner or family physician , or depending on the locality , health system organization , and patient 's discretion , they may see a pharmacist , a physician assistant , a nurse practitioner , a nurse ( such as in the United Kingdom ) , a clinical officer ( such as in parts of Africa ) , or an Ayurvedic or other traditional medicine   professional ( such as in parts of Asia ) .
Depending on the nature of the health condition , patients may then be referred for  द्वितीयक or tertiary  care .
`` Ocean Avenue '' is a song recorded by  अमरीकी पॉप पंक  group Yellowcard .
It was released in February 2004 as the second single from Ocean Avenue and the third track   .
It is known for bringing them into the mainstream , as it received numerous spins on MTV  और increasing  radio airplay .
Ocean Avenue is a street in Jacksonville , Florida , the band 's stomping grounds near their high school , Douglas Anderson School of the Arts , and another street  उल्लेखित in the सोंग , चेरी गली  .
The name of Ocean Avenue in Jacksonville is  दरअसल बीच  Boulevard .
They left their original base behind when they moved to Los  एंजिल्स  .
The song was featured on the Much Music compilation  एल्बम बिग चमकदार  Tunes 9 .
A psychiatrist is a  चिकित्सक जो specializes  in psychiatry .
A psychiatrist specializes in the treatment  of दिमागी  disorders .
Psychiatrists are authorized to prescribe medicine , conduct physical examinations , order and interpret laboratory tests , use psychotherapy and may order brain imaging studies such as computed tomography ( CT/CAT Scan ) , magnetic resonance imaging (  mri ) , और positron  emission tomography ( PET ) scanning .
Within the framework of the World Health Organization 's ( WHO ) definition of health as a state of complete physical , mental and social well-being , and not merely the absence of disease or infirmity , reproductive health , or sexual  health/hygiene , पता the reproductive प्रक्रियाओं  , functions and system at all stages of life .
Reproductive  स्वास्थ्य  , therefore , implies that people are able to have a responsible , satisfying and safer sex life and that they have the capability to reproduce and the freedom to decide if , when and how often to do so .
One interpretation of this implies that  मेन और महिलाओं ought to be सूचित of और to have अभिगम to सुरक्षित , प्रभावी , सस्ती और स्वीकार्य विधि of जनम कंट्रोल ; भी  access to appropriate health care services of sexual , reproductive medicine and implementation of health education programs to stress the importance of women to go safely through pregnancy and childbirth could provide couples with the best chance of having a healthy infant .
On the other hand individuals do face inequalities  in reproductive  health services .
Inequalities vary based on  socioeconomic औकात , शिक्षा स्तर  , age , ethnicity , religion , and resources available in their environment .
It is possible for example , that low income individuals lack the resources  for appropriate health services and  the knowledge to know what is appropriate for maintaining reproductive health .
According to the WHO , `` Reproductive and sexual ill-health accounts for 20 % of the global burden of ill-health for women , and 14  % लिये मेन . ''
Reproductive  स्वास्थ्य  is a part of Sexual and reproductive health and rights .
This is a list of episodes for the Disney Channel original series The Suite Life on Deck , which aired for three seasons on  डिज़्नी चैनल इससे सितंबर 26 , 2008 to  May 6 , 2011 .
Core 2 is a brand encompassing  a range  of Intel 's consumer 64-bit x86-64 single- , dual- , and quad-core microprocessors based on the Core microarchitecture .
The single- and dual-core models are single- die , whereas the quad-core models comprise two dies , each containing two cores , packaged in a  multi-chip मोड्यूल  .
The introduction of Core 2 relegated the Pentium brand to the mid-range market , and reunified laptop and desktop CPU lines , which  previously था महरूम विभाजित  into the Pentium 4 , Pentium D , and Pentium M brands .
The Core 2 brand was introduced on 27 July 2006 , comprising the Solo (  single-core ) , duo ( dual-core  ) , Quad ( quad-core ) , and in 2007 , the Extreme ( dual- or quad-core CPUs for enthusiasts ) subbrands .
Intel  कोर 2 processors  with vPro technology ( designed for businesses ) include the dual-core and quad-core branches .
The Super Bowl is the annual championship game of the National Football League ( NFL  ) , the उच्चतम  level of professional American football in the United States , culminating a season that begins in the late summer of the previous calendar year .
the सुपर कटोरी उपयोग  Roman numerals to identify each game , rather than the year in which it is held .
For example , Super Bowl I was  निभाई on जनवरी  15 , 1967 , following the 1966 regular season , while Super Bowl XLVII was played on February 3 , 2013 , following the 2012 season .
The game was created as part of a merger agreement between the NFL and its  then-rival लीग  , the American Football League ( AFL ) .
It was agreed that the two leagues ' champion  टीमों होता खेल  in an AFL–NFL World Championship Game until the merger was to officially begin in 1970 .
After the merger , each league was redesignated as a `` conference `` , and the  खेल थी तब निभाई between  the conference champions .
Currently , the National Football Conference ( NFC ) leads the series with 25 wins to  22 विन्स लिये the अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल सम्मेलन ( afc )  .
The day on which  the सुपर कटोरी is निभाई , अभी माना by  some a de facto American national holiday , is called `` Super Bowl Sunday `` .
It is the second-largest day for U.S. food consumption ,  बाद थैंक्सगिविंग दिन .
In addition , the Super Bowl has frequently been the most  देखी अमरीकी टेलीविज़न  broadcast of the year .
Super Bowl XLV ,  निभाई in 2011 , became the most-watched अमरीकी टेलीविज़न  program in history , drawing an average audience of 111 million viewers and taking over the spot held by the previous year 's Super Bowl , which itself had taken over the # 1 spot held for twenty-eight years by the final episode of M*A*S*H .
The Super  कटोरी is भी among the सबसे  watched sporting events in the world , almost all being North American audiences , and is second to association football ’s UEFA Champions League final as the most watched annual sporting event worldwide .
Because of its high viewership ,  वाणिज्यिक  airtime during the Super Bowl broadcast is the most expensive of the year .
Due to the high cost of  निवेश in विज्ञापन  on the Super Bowl , companies regularly develop their most expensive advertisements for this broadcast .
As a result , watching and discussing the broadcast 's commercials has become a  significant  aspect of the event .
In addition , many popular singers and musicians have performed during the event 's pre-game and halftime  ceremonies क्युकी  of the exposure .
Fiona is a   feminine given name .
The name Fiona was invented , and first used , by the Scottish poet James Macpherson ( 1736–96 ) , author of the Ossian poems , which he claimed   were translations from ancient Gaelic sources ( sources , when challenged , he never produced ) .
The name was subsequently used as a pseudonym by William Sharp (  1855–1905 ) , जो authored  several romantic works under the name `` Fiona Macleod '' .
The name has since become  लोकप्रिय in इंग्लैण्ड  , Scotland and Ireland .
The name is  माना  to be a Latinised form of the Gaelic word fionn , meaning `` white '' , `` fair '' .
The name Fiona is also sometimes used as an Anglicisation of the Irish-language name Fíona , although these names are otherwise  unrelated ( as fíona is निकला  from an element meaning `` vine '' ) .
There is also a modern tendency to  equate the प्रामाणिक स्कॉटिश गैलिक  feminine name Fionnghal with Fiona .
The name  फिओना is उठती  in popularity particularly in German -speaking countries .
Fiona was the 49th most popular name for baby girls born in 2008 in  जर्मनी  .
Fiona was tied for third  प्लेस in the रैंकिंग of सबसे लोकप्रिय  names for baby girls born in the tiny principality of Liechtenstein in 2008 .
The name was the 347th most popular name for girls born in the United States in 2008 , where it has ranked among the top 1,000 most popular names for girls  चूंकि 1990 और among the शीर्ष 500  since 1999 .
The name Fiona has been particularly popular for girls of Asian or Pacific Islander descent in New York City , where Fiona ranked as the ninth most popular name for girls from  those  groups in 2007 .
Many languages are used , or historically have been used   in the United States .
The most commonly used language is  अंग्रेज़ी  .
There are also many languages indigenous to North America  or to u.S. राज्य  or holdings in the Pacific region .
Languages brought to the country by colonists or immigrants from Europe , Asia , or other parts of the world make up a large portion of the languages currently used ; several languages , including creoles and sign  भाषाएं , have भी विकसित in the संयुक्त  States .
लगभग 337  languages are spoken or signed by the population , of which 176 are indigenous to the area .
Fifty-two languages formerly spoken in the  देश 's  territory are now extinct .
The variety of English  बोला in the संयुक्त  States is known as American English .
English is the de facto national language of the United States , with 80 % of the population claiming it as a  माँ जीभ , और  some 95 % claiming to speak it `` well '' or `` very well '' .
However , no  आधिकारिक भाषा  exists at the federal level .
There have been several proposals to make English the national language in amendments to immigration reform bills , but none  of  these bills has become law with the amendment intact .
The situation is quite varied at the state and territorial levels , with some states mirroring the federal policy of adopting no official language in a de jure capacity , others adopting English alone , others officially adopting  अंग्रेज़ी as खूब as लोकल भाषाएं , और स्टिल अन्य adopting a नीति of de facto bilingualism  .
Spanish is the  दूसरी सबसे आम  language in the country , and is spoken by over 12 % of the population .
The United States holds  the संसार 's पांचवां largest  Spanish-speaking population , outnumbered only by Mexico , Spain , Colombia , and Argentina .
Throughout the Southwestern United States , long-established Spanish-speaking communities coexist with large numbers of  अधिक हाल hispanophone  immigrants .
Although many new Latin American immigrants are less   than fluent in English , nearly all second-generation Hispanic Americans speak English fluently , while only about half still speak Spanish .
According to the 2000 US census , people of German ancestry make up the  largest सिंगल  ethnic group in the United States , and the German language ranks fifth .
Italian , Polish , and French   are still widely spoken among populations descending from immigrants from those countries in the early 20th century , but the use of these languages is dwindling as the older generations die .
Russian is also spoken by immigrant  populations  .
Tagalog and  वियतनामी have  over one million speakers each in the United States , almost entirely within recent immigrant populations .
Both languages , along with the varieties of the Chinese language , Japanese , and Korean , are  अभी प्रयुक्त in चुनावों in  Alaska , California , Hawaii , Illinois , New York , Texas , and Washington .
Native American  भाषाएं हैं बोला in  smaller pockets of the country , but these populations are decreasing , and the languages are almost never widely used outside of reservations .
Hawaiian , although having few native  अध्यक्षों ,  is an official language along with English at the state level in Hawaii .
The  राज्य  government of Louisiana offers services and documents in French , as does New Mexico in Spanish .
Besides English , Spanish , French , German , Navajo and other Native American  भाषाएं , सब अन्य भाषाएं हैं प्रायः सीखे  from immigrant ancestors that came after the time of independence or learned through some form of education .
1990 's  pontiac ग्रैंड  Am Sedan fender and quarter panel
On an automobile , a quarter panel ( or rear wing as it is known in British English ) is usually considered the body panel  जिससे goes between the पश्च द्वार और the ट्रंक और typically  wraps around the wheel well ; however , the similar front section Fender ( vehicle ) , between the door and the hood , is sometimes incorrectly referred to as a quarter panel .
The quarter panel is typically made of Sheet metal , but is sometimes made of  fiberglass or fiber-reinforced प्लास्टिक  ; although , this varies with different makes and models .
a क्वार्टर फलक is typically a welded on घटक of the uni-body ढांचा or monocoque .
Replacement of a sheet metal quarter panel typically  requires  it to be cut off the vehicle and a replacement part to be welded ( or sometimes bonded ) to the Vehicle .
Due to this high amount of specialized labor , a quarter  फलक may  often be repaired rather than replaced by hammering out the damage , and a body filler sometimes referred to as bondo to be applied to finalize the original surface .
Shropshire ( or ; alternatively Salop ; abbreviated , in print only , Shrops ) is a county in  the वेस्ट मिडलैंड्स प्रदेश  of England .
It borders  वेल्स  to the west , Cheshire to the north , Staffordshire to the east , Worcestershire to the south-east and Herefordshire to the south .
A unitary authority ( Shropshire  परिषद ) थी निर्मित on  1 April 2009 , taking over from the previous county council and 5 district councils , and covers most of the county .
The borough of Telford and Wrekin has been a separate unitary authority since 1998 but continues to be  शामिल in the ceremonial  county .
The county 's population and economy is centred on five towns : the county town of Shrewsbury , which is culturally and historically important and is located in the centre of the county ; Telford , a new town in the east which was constructed around a number of older towns , most notably Wellington , Dawley and Madeley , which is today the most populous  ; और oswestry in the north-west , bridgnorth बस to the दक्षिण of telford  , and Ludlow in the south .
The  काउंटी रै अनेक further मार्केट  towns , including Whitchurch in the north , Newport just to the north-east of Telford , and Market Drayton in the north-east of the county .
The Ironbridge Gorge area is a UNESCO World Heritage Site ,  covering ironbridge , coalbrookdale  and a part of Madeley .
There are , additionally , other notable historic industrial sites located around the county , such as at  shrewsbury  , Broseley , Snailbeach and Highley as well as the Shropshire Union Canal .
The Shropshire Hills Area of Outstanding  प्राकृतिक  Beauty covers about a quarter of the county , mainly in the south .
Shropshire is one of England 's most rural and sparsely populated counties , with the population density of the Shropshire Council  क्षेत्रफल होने बस 91/km2 ( 337/sq  mi ) .
The Wrekin is one of the most famous natural landmarks in the county  ,  though the highest hills are the Clee Hills , Stiperstones and the Long Mynd .
Wenlock Edge is  another  significant geographical and geological landmark .
In the low-lying northwest of the county ( and overlapping the border with Wales ) is the Fenn 's , Whixall and  bettisfield mosses नेशनल  Nature Reserve , one of the most important and best preserved bogs in Britain .
The River Severn , Great Britain 's longest river  , रनों through the काउंटी , exiting  into Worcestershire via the Severn Valley .
Shropshire is landlocked , and with an area of , is England 's largest   inland county .
The county flower is  the round-leaved  sundew .
For Eurostat purposes , the county ( less the unitary  district  of Telford and Wrekin ) is a NUTS 3 region ( code UKG22 ) .
The two Shropshire unitary areas (  covering सब of the ceremonial काउंटी  ) , together with the authorities covering the ceremonial county of Staffordshire , comprise the `` Shropshire and Staffordshire '' NUTS 2 region .
The Big Bang Theory cast at  कॉमिक कॉन 2009 , इससे बाएँ  : Kunal Nayyar , Simon Helberg , Kaley Cuoco , Jim Parsons , and Johnny Galecki
The American sitcom The Big Bang  सिद्धान्त ,  created and executive produced by Chuck Lorre and Bill Prady , premiered on CBS on September 24 , 2007 .
The show centers on five characters : roommates Sheldon Cooper and Leonard Hofstadter , two Caltech physicists ; Penny , a waitress and aspiring actress who lives across the hall ; and Leonard and Sheldon 's  मित्रों और co-workers  aerospace engineer Howard Wolowitz , and astrophysicist Rajesh Koothrappali .
Over time , several supporting characters have been promoted to starring roles : Leslie Winkle ( season 1 recurring ; season 2 regular ; season 3 guest ) , a physicist colleague , and , at different times , a lover of both Leonard and Howard ; Bernadette Rostenkowski-Wolowitz ( season 3 recurring ; season 4-present regular ) , a microbiologist , Howard 's fiancée and subsequent wife , and former part-time  वेट्रेस alongside पैनी ; neuroscientist एमी farrah fowler ( ऋतु 3 अतिथि ; ऋतु 4 पुनरावर्ती ; ऋतु 4-present नियमित )  , who joins the group after being matched to Sheldon on a dating website ; and comic book store-owner , Stuart Bloom ( seasons 2–5 recurring ; season 6-present regular ) , who replaces Howard as Raj 's best friend when Howard is in space .
The show also features numerous  supporting वर्ण , प्रत्येक of  whom plays a prominent role in a small group of episodes .
The A-Team is an American action-adventure television series , running from 1983 to 1987 , about a fictional group of ex– United States Army Special Forces personnel who work as soldiers of fortune , while on the run from the Army after being branded as war criminals for a `` crime they did n't  कमिट  `` .
A feature film based on the series was released by 20th  सदी  Fox on June 11 , 2010 .
A comic  किताब श्रेणी  , A-Team : Shotgun Wedding , began March 9 , 2010 .
डायना  Prince is a fictional character appearing regularly in stories published by DC Comics .
She debuted in  सनसनी कॉमिक्स # 1 (  January 1942 ) and serves as the civilian and secret identity of the superhero Wonder Woman .
The character was created by  चार्ल्स  Moulton and Harry G. Peter .
Wat Phra Kaew ,  बैंकॉक  , Thailand
There is no official state religion in the Thai constitution , which guarantees  धार्मिक स्वतंत्रता  for all Thai citizens , though the king is required by law to be Buddhist .
According to  the पिछला जनसांख्यिकी ( 2000 ) 94.6 % of  Thais are Buddhists of the Theravada tradition .
Muslims are the second largest  धार्मिक समूह in थाईलैंड  at 4.6 % .
Thailand 's southernmost provinces - Pattani , Yala , Narathiwat and part of  songkhla chumphon have प्रबल मुस्लिम populations , consisting  of both ethnic Thai and Malay .
The southern tip of Thailand is  ज़्यादातर जातीय malays  .
Christians , mainly  catholics , represent 0.7  % of the population .
A small but influential community of Sikhs in Thailand and some Hindus also live in the country 's cities , and  हैं heavily  engaged in retail commerce .
There is also a small Jewish  जातियाँ  in Thailand , dating back to the 17th century .
Since 2001 , Muslim activists , generally described by the Thai government as terrorists or separatists , have rallied against  the central government  because of alleged corruption and ethnic bias on the part of officials .
Thailand 's Department of Religion , currently under the Ministry of Culture , is formally responsible for the registration of religious  समूह in थाईलैंड url_http  which hold properties through legally established foundations .
It has oversight , along with the Immigration Police , over the  कार्य permits of  missionaries who are `` expatriate religious workers '' of all religions .
A value added tax  ( vat ) is  a form of consumption tax .
From the perspective of the buyer , it is a tax on the  खरीदें  price .
From that of the seller , it is a tax only on the value added to a product , material , or service , from an accounting  पाइंट  of view , by this stage of its manufacture or distribution .
The  निर्माता remits to the सरकारी  the difference between these two amounts , and retains the rest for themselves to offset the taxes they had previously paid on the inputs .
The value added to a  उत्पाद by or साथ a कारोबार is the बिक्री  price charged to its customer , minus the cost of materials and other taxable inputs .
A  vat is जैसे  a sales tax in that ultimately only the end consumer is taxed .
It differs from the sales tax in that , with the latter , the tax is collected and remitted to  the सरकारी तभी एकबार ,  at the point of purchase by the end consumer .
With the VAT , collections ,  remittances to the सरकारी , और  credits for taxes already paid occur each time a business in the supply chain purchases products .
A referee calling  a high-sticking  penaltyHigh
-sticking is the name of two infractions in the sport of ice hockey that may occur when a player intentionally or inadvertently  plays साथ उसके or उसके स्टिक ऊपर  the height of the shoulders or above the cross bar of a hockey goal .
This can result in a stoppage of play  or in  a penalty .
In the rules of the National Hockey League , high-sticking is defined as a penalty in Rule 60 and as a  non-penalty  foul in Rule 80 .
A stoppage in play results if a high  स्टिक  comes in contact with the puck and the team who touched it regains control of the puck .
However ,  खेल  usually continues if a player touches the puck with a high stick and the opposing team gains control of the puck .
If  the पक  goes into the opposing net after coming into contact with a high stick , the goal is disallowed .
The level at which a stick is  माना too ऊँची लिये  a goal is the crossbar of the net .
However , if a player knocks the puck into his own net with a high stick , the goal  is  allowed .
A penalty is assessed if a player strikes another player  साथ a ऊँची  stick .
The player is given a minor  दंड जबतक  his high stick caused an injury , in which case the referee has the option to assess a double-minor , major or match penalty .
It is the referee 's discretion which penalty to assess : the rule calls for a double minor  लिये an आकस्मिक चोट , or a मैच दंड  for a deliberate attempt to injure ( whether the opposition player was actually injured ) .
Injury is usually decided by the high stick causing bleeding , but the presence of blood does  not  automatically mean an extra penalty is awarded .
Some referees  have महरूम ज्ञात to पुरस्कार  an extra penalty without the presence of blood if the referee determines that the injury sustained was sufficient to warrant a double-minor penalty .
Typical modern memory card reader ,  संगत साथ  many common formats
A memory card reader is a device , typically having a USB interface , for accessing the  आंकड़ा on a मेमोरी कार्ड ऐसे as a  CompactFlash ( CF ) , Secure Digital ( SD ) or MultiMediaCard ( MMC ) .
Most card readers also offer write capability , and together with the card , this  can  function as a pen drive .
Some printers and personal  कंप्यूटर have a built-in  card reader .
A multi card reader is used for communication with   more than one type of flash memory card .
Multi card readers do not have built-in  मेमोरी क्षमता , लकिन  are able to accept multiple types and styles of memory cards .
The number of compatible memory cards varies from reader to   reader and can include more than 20 different types .
The number of different memory cards that a multi card reader can accept is expressed as x-in-1 , with x being a figure of merit indicating the number of memory cards accepted ,  ऐसे as 35-in-1  .
There are three categories of card readers  sorted by the प्रकार और मात्रा  of the card slots : single card reader ( e.g . 1x SD-only ) , multi card reader ( e.g . 9-in-1 ) and series card reader ( e.g . 4x SD only ) .
Some kinds of memory cards with their own USB functions do not need  the कार्ड  reader , such as the Intelligent Stick memory card , which can plug directly into a USB slot .
The  usb  device class used is 0x08 .
Bullying is detrimental to  विद्यार्थी ' well-being  and development .
Bullying is the  उपयोग of फ़ोर्स  or coercion to abuse or intimidate others .
The behavior can be  habitual और involve an असंतुलन  of social or physical power .
It can include verbal harassment or  threat  , physical assault or coercion and may be directed repeatedly towards particular victims , perhaps on grounds of race , religion , gender , sexuality , or ability .
If  धमकाना is किया by  a group , it is called mobbing .
The victim of  धमकाना  is sometimes referred to as a `` target '' .
धमकाना  can be defined in many different ways .
The UK  फिलहाल रै no  legal definition of bullying , while some U.S. states have laws against it .
Bullying consists of three basic types of abuse – emotional , verbal  , और  physical .
It typically involves subtle  विधि of coercion  such as intimidation .
Bullying ranges from simple  one-on-one धमकाना  to more complex bullying in which the bully may have one or more `` lieutenants '' who may seem to be willing to assist the primary bully in his or her bullying activities .
धमकाना in स्कूल  and the workplace is also referred to as peer abuse .
Robert W. Fuller has analyzed  धमकाना in  the context of rankism .
A bullying culture can develop in any context in which human beings interact with  प्रत्येक  other .
This  शामिल स्कूल , गिरिजाघर  , family , the workplace , home , and neighborhoods .
Happy slapping in the Instituto Regional  federico errázuriz  , Santa Cruz , Chile
Laura Bush and Rae Leigh Bradbury ( formerly missing ) on April 4 ,  2007 , in ऑस्टिन , टेक्सास  , after the 8-year-old introduced Mrs. Bush during announcement of the future opening of the Texas Regional Office of the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children .
Rae Leigh was the  पहला चाइल्ड in  the U.S. to be recovered as a result of an AMBER Alert when she was 8 weeks old in November 1998 .
An AMBER Alert or a Child Abduction Emergency ( SAME  कोड : cae ) is a चाइल्ड abduction  alert system originating in 1996 , now employed in 9 countries .
AMBER is officially a backronym for  अमेरिका 's लापता : प्रसारण  Emergency Response , named for Amber Hagerman , a 9-year-old abducted and murdered in Arlington , Texas in 1996 .
Alternate regional alert names were once used ; in Georgia , `` Levi 's Call '' ( named after Levi Frady ) ; in Hawaii , `` Maile Amber Alert '' ( after Maile Gilbert ) ; and  अरकंसास , `` मॉर्गन उपनाम  Amber Alert '' ( in memory of Morgan Chauntel Nick ) .
AMBER Alerts are distributed via  वाणिज्यिक  radio stations , Internet radio , satellite radio , television stations , and cable TV by the Emergency Alert System and NOAA Weather Radio ( where they are termed `` Child Abduction Emergency '' or `` Amber Alerts '' ) .
The alerts are also issued via e-mail , electronic traffic-condition signs , the LED billboards which are located outside of newer Walgreens locations , along with the LED/LCD signs of billboard companies such as Clear Channel Outdoor , CBS Outdoor and  Lamar , or  through wireless device SMS text messages .
AMBER Alert has also teamed up  साथ  Google and Facebook to relay information regarding an AMBER Alert to an ever growing demographic .
Those  दिलचस्पी in  subscribing to receive AMBER Alerts in their area via SMS messages can visit Wireless Amber Alerts , which are offered by law as free messages .
In some states , the display  scrollboards in सामने of लॉटरी  terminals are also used .
The decision to declare an AMBER Alert is made by each police organization ( in many cases , the state police or highway patrol ) which investigates each of   the abductions .
Public information in an AMBER Alert usually consists of the name and description of the abductee , a description of the suspected abductor , and a description and license plate number of the  abductor 's  vehicle , if available .
Monica Samille Lewinsky ( born July 23 , 1973 )  is an अमरीकी स्त्री  with whom United States President Bill Clinton admitted to having had an `` improper relationship '' while she worked at the White House in 1995 and 1996 .
The affair and its repercussions ( which  शामिल क्लिंटन 's  impeachment ) became known as the Lewinsky scandal .
House of Night is a series of vampire  -थीमd काल्पनिक novels  by American author P. C. Cast and her daughter Kristin Cast .
It  फ़ॉलो the adventures of zoey redbird , a sixteen-year-old लड़की जो रै बस become a `` fledgling vampyre '' और is जरूरी to attend the हाउस of रात्रि बोर्डिंग स्कूल in तुलसा , ओक्लाहोमा .
The series has been on the New York Times  Best Seller  list for 63 weeks and there are over seven million copies in print in North America alone .
The sixth  अनोखा , इम्तिहान  , which went on sale on October 27 , 2009 with a first printing of a million copies , entered the USA Today bestseller list that week at # 1 .
In January , 2010 , Gezeichnet , a German translation of Marked  , पहुँचे the  # 1 spot on the Der Spiegel bestseller list .
The  श्रेणी रै so दूर  sold more than ten million books in 39 countries .
Burned was released on April 27 , 2010 , and like Tempted , it  डाला the यूएसए आज  bestseller list that week at # 1 .
Awakened , released in January , 2011 , also entered the  सूची at  # 1 .
The series , which is  प्रकाशित by st  Martin 's Press is planned to include twelve books .
In 2008 , plans for a film adaptation were also announced   .
The tenth book in   the series , Hidden , was released on October 16 , 2012 .
The second book in the novellas ( which give backgrounds on   supporting characters ) , Lenobia 's Vow , was released January 31 , 2012 .
Book eleven is currently called Revealed , and the Casts have announced that two more novellas , Neferet’s Curse , planned to be released February 19 , 2013 , and a prequel novel about Kalona , are to  be released to coincide साथ  the eleventh and twelfth books .
In Greek  mythology , the trojan युद्ध थी  waged against the city of Troy by the Achaeans ( Greeks ) after Paris of Troy took Helen from her husband Menelaus king of Sparta .
The war is one of the most important events in Greek mythology and has been narrated through many works of Greek literature , most  notably through  Homer 's Iliad and the Odyssey .
The Iliad relates a part of the last year of  the  siege of Troy ; the Odyssey describes Odysseus 's journey home .
Other parts of the  युद्ध हैं contained  in a cycle of epic poems , which have survived through fragments .
Episodes from the war provided material for Greek  त्रासदी और अन्य works  of Greek literature , and for Roman poets including Virgil and Ovid .
The war originated from a quarrel between the goddesses Athena , Hera , and Aphrodite , after Eris , the  देवी of संघर्ष  and discord , gave them a golden apple , sometimes known as the Apple of Discord , marked `` for the fairest '' .
Zeus sent the goddesses to Paris , who judged that Aphrodite , as the ``  fairest  '' , should receive the apple .
In exchange , Aphrodite made Helen , the most beautiful  of सब  women and wife of Menelaus , fall in love with Paris , who took her to Troy .
Agamemnon , king of Mycenae and the brother of Helen 's husband Menelaus , led an expedition of Achaean troops to Troy and besieged the city for ten years because  of  Paris ' insult .
After the deaths of many heroes , including the Achaeans Achilles and Ajax , and the Trojans Hector and Paris  , the नगर गिरी  to the ruse of the Trojan Horse .
The Achaeans  slaughtered the  Trojans ( except for some of the women and children whom they kept or sold as slaves ) and desecrated the temples , thus earning the gods ' wrath .
Few of the Achaeans returned safely  to  their homes and many founded colonies in distant shores .
The Romans later traced  उनके उत्पत्ति to aeneas  , one of the Trojans , who was said to have led the surviving Trojans to modern-day Italy .
The ancient Greeks thought that the Trojan War was a historical  इवेंट कि था लिया प्लेस  in the 13th or 12th century BC , and believed that Troy was located in modern-day Turkey near the Dardanelles .
By modern times , both the war  and the  city were widely believed to be non-historical .
In 1868 , however , the German archaeologist Heinrich Schliemann met Frank Calvert , who  कायल  Schliemann that Troy was at Hissarlik and Schliemann took over Calvert 's excavations on property belonging to Calvert ; this claim is now accepted by most scholars .
Whether  वहीँ is कोई ऐतिहासिक  reality behind the Trojan War is an open question .
Many scholars believe that there is a historical core to the tale , though this may simply mean that the Homeric stories are a fusion of  विभिन्न किस्से of sieges और रिझाने by  Mycenaean Greeks during the Bronze Age .
Those who believe that the stories of the Trojan War are derived from a specific historical conflict usually date it to the 12th or 11th centuries BC , often preferring the dates given by Eratosthenes , 1194–1184 BC , which roughly corresponds with archaeological evidence of a catastrophic   burning of Troy VIIa .
Anarchists have employed certain symbols for their cause , including most prominently the circle-A and the  ब्लैक ध्वज , हालांकि anarchists have  historically largely denied the importance of symbols to political movement .
Since  the पुनरुद्धार of अराजकतावाद  around the start of the 21st-century concurrent with the rise of the anti-globalization movement , anarchist cultural symbols are widely present .
The  वृहद palatine कनाल (  or pterygopalatine canal ) is a passage in the skull that transmits the greater palatine artery , vein , and nerve between the pterygopalatine fossa and the oral cavity .
Surface temperature of Antarctica in winter and summer from the European Centre  लिये medium-range  Weather Forecasts
The climate of Antarctica is the  coldest  on the whole of Earth .
Antarctica has the lowest  naturally occurring  temperature ever recorded on the ground on Earth : −89.2 °C ( −128.6 °F ) at Vostok Station .
It is also extremely dry ( technically a desert ) , averaging 166 mm ( 6.5 in ) of  वर्षण  per year .
Even so , on most parts of the continent the snow rarely melts and is eventually compressed to become  the glacial बर्फ कि  makes up the ice sheet .
Weather fronts rarely  घुस दूर  into the continent .
Most of Antarctica has an ice cap climate ( Köppen EF ) with very cold , generally extremely dry weather throughout the year and  no माह averaging ऊपर  0 °C ( 32 °F ) .
Some fringe coastal areas have a tundra  जलवायु ( köppen  ET ) with a short summer averaging above freezing , and much higher precipitation .
Current  सिर  coach Mike Tomlin , during the 2007 season
The Pittsburgh Steelers franchise has had 16 head coaches throughout  इसके इतिहास  .
Founded as the Pittsburgh Pirates in , the name was changed to the Steelers prior to the season to celebrate the city 's heritage of  producing  steel .
Joe Bach served  दो पृथक शर्तें as सिर  coach and Walt Kiesling served three separate terms .
During the and seasons , due to the amount of players who fought in World War II , the Steelers combined their team with  फिलाडेल्फिया और शिकागो , क्रमशः  .
During these seasons , Steelers ' coach Walt Kiesling shared coaching duties with Greasy  Neale and  Phil Handler , who have not been included within this list .
Struggling for much of the franchise 's early years , the  टोली 's पहला ऋतु साथ  more wins than losses was coached by Jock Sutherland in .
In , under  sutherland  , the Steelers played their first playoff game against the Philadelphia Eagles .
Ten of the 16 head coaches spent their entire professional coaching careers with the franchise , including John McNally , Walt Kiesling and Chuck Noll , who have also been voted  into the प्रो  Football Hall of Fame .
One  of तभी  four men to coach the same team for 23 years , Chuck Noll retired in .
Noll is also the only coach in National Football League  इतिहास to जीत चार सुपर  Bowls .
Bill Cowher , Noll 's   replacement , coached the Steelers to their fifth Super Bowl victory , in 2005 .
The Steelers sixth  Super  Bowl win came in Super Bowl XLIII , while head coached by Mike Tomlin , the team 's current head coach .
In criminal law , fraud is intentional deception made  लिये  personal gain or to damage another individual ; the related adjective is fraudulent , and verb is defraud .
Fraud is a crime and a civil law violation , though the specific  दण्ड  law definition varies by legal jurisdiction .
defrauding  people or entities of money or valuables is a common purpose of fraud .
A hoax also involves deception , but without  the  intention of gain or of damaging or depriving the victim .
धोखाधड़ी is a रक्षा  in a civil action for breach of contract or specific performance of a contract .
Fraud is a  आधार लिये निष्पक्ष  jurisdiction .
Passover , or Pesach ( from : in Hebrew , Yiddish ) , Tiberian : , Modern Hebrew : /ˈpesaχ/ Pesah , Pesakh , Yiddish : Peysekh , Paysakh , Paysokh ) is an important  biblically -derived  Jewish festival .
historically , साथ साथ shavuot ( `` पेंटेकोस्ट '' ) और sukkot  ( `` Tabernacles '' ) , Passover is one of the three pilgrimage festivals ( Shalosh Regalim ) during which the entire population of the kingdom of Judah made a pilgrimage to the Temple in Jerusalem .
Samaritans still make this pilgrimage to Mount  gerizim , लकिन तभी मेन participate in पब्लिक इबादत  .
Passover commences on the 15th of the  यहूदी माह of nisan और lasts लिये either सात  days ( in Israel ) or eight days ( in the diaspora ) .
In Judaism , a day commences at dusk and lasts until the following dusk , thus the first day of Passover only begins after dusk of the 14th of Nisan and ends at dusk of the 15th day of the month of  nisan  .
The rituals unique to the Passover  जश्न  commence with the Passover Seder when the 15th of Nisan has begun .
In the Northern  गोलार्ध passover takes प्लेस  in spring as the Torah prescribes it : `` in the month of [ the ] spring '' ( בחדש האביב ) .
It is one of the most widely observed  यहूदी छुट्टियाँ  .
The Jewish  लोगों celebrate  Passover as a commemoration of their liberation over 3,300 years ago by God from slavery in ancient Egypt that was ruled by the Pharaohs , and their birth as a nation under the leadership of Moses .
It commemorates the story of the Exodus as described in the Hebrew Bible  विशेषकर in the किताब  of Exodus , in which the Israelites were freed from slavery in Egypt .
In the narrative of the Exodus , the Bible tells that God helped the Children of Israel escape from their slavery  in मिश्र by inflicting टेन plagues upon the  ancient Egyptians before the Pharaoh would release his Israelite slaves ; the tenth and worst of the plagues was the death of the Egyptian first-born .
The Israelites  यहूद instructed to चिह्नित the doorposts of उनके घरों साथ the रक्त of a slaughtered वसन्त मेमने और , upon देखकर इस , the स्पिरिट of the रब knew to pass over the first-born in ये घरों , hence the नाम of the अवकाश .
There is  कुछ बहस over  where the term is actually derived from .
When the Pharaoh  freed the israelites  , it is said that they left in such a hurry that they could not wait for bread dough to rise ( leaven ) .
In commemoration , for the duration of Passover no leavened  ब्रैड is खाया ,  for which reason it is called `` The Festival of the Unleavened Bread '' .
Thus Matzo ( flat unleavened bread ) is eaten during Passover and  it is  a symbol of the holiday .
Halley 's Comet or Comet Halley ( or ) , officially designated 1P/Halley , is  the best-known of the short-period  comets and is visible from Earth every 75–76 years .
Halley is the only short-period comet that is clearly visible to the naked eye  इससे धरती , और यूँ  the only naked-eye comet that might appear twice in a human lifetime .
Other naked-eye comets may be brighter and  अधिक spectacular  , but will appear only once in thousands of years .
Halley 's returns to the inner Solar System  have महरूम observed  and recorded by astronomers since at least 240 BCE .
Clear records of the comet 's appearances were made by Chinese , Babylonian , and medieval European chroniclers ,  लकिन यहूद नहीं पहचाना as reappearances of  the same object at the time .
The comet 's periodicity was first  संकल्पित in 1705 by अंग्रेज़ी  astronomer Edmond Halley , after whom it is now named .
Halley 's Comet last appeared  in the  inner Solar System in 1986 and will next appear in mid-2061 .
During its 1986  apparition , हैली became the पहला धूमकेतु to be observed in  detail by spacecraft , providing the first observational data on the structure of a comet nucleus and the mechanism of coma and tail formation .
These observations supported a number  of longstanding hypotheses परिचय  comet construction , particularly Fred Whipple 's `` dirty snowball '' model , which correctly predicted that Halley would be composed of a mixture of volatile ices – such as water , carbon dioxide and ammonia – and dust .
The missions also provided data which substantially reformed and reconfigured these ideas ; for  उदाहरण it  is now understood that Halley 's surface is largely composed of dusty , non-volatile materials , and that only a small portion of it is icy .
Anti-communism  is  opposition to communism .
Organized anti-communism developed in reaction to the  वृद्धि of साम्यवादी  , especially after the 1917 October Revolution in Russia and reaching global dimensions during the Cold War .
Most  anti-communists  reject the concept of historical materialism , which is a central idea in Marxism .
Anti-communists reject the Marxist belief that capitalism will be followed by socialism and communism , just as feudalism was  followed by  capitalism .
Anti-communists question the validity of the Marxist claim that the socialist state will ``  wither दूर '' जब it  becomes unnecessary in a true communist society .
Anti-communists argue that the repression in the early years of Bolshevik rule , while not as  चरम as कि दौरान जोसेफ स्टालिन 's  rule , was still severe by reasonable standards , citing examples such as Felix Dzerzhinsky 's secret police , which eliminated numerous political opponents by extrajudicial executions , and the brutal crushing of the Kronstadt rebellion and Tambov rebellion .
Some anti-communists refer to both Communism and fascism as totalitarianism , seeing similarity between  the  actions of communist and fascist governments .
Historian Robert Conquest has argued that Communism was responsible for tens of  लाखो of मौतों दौरान  the 20th century .
Opponents argue that Communist  पार्टियों कि have  come to power have tended to be rigidly intolerant of political opposition .
These opponents claim that most Communist countries have shown no signs of advancing from Marx 's socialist stage of  अर्थव्यवस्था to an आदर्श कम्युनिस्ट स्टेज  .
Rather , Communist governments have been accused of creating a new ruling class ( a Nomenklatura ) , with powers and privileges greater than those previously enjoyed by the upper classes in the  non- कम्युनिस्ट  regimes .
Gil  बगुला ( 9  April 1922 – 27 November 2008 ) was a Jamaican professional footballer .
He was the first black player to play for Scottish club Celtic , and was the father of poet and musician   Gil Scott-Heron .
He died in Detroit of  a दिल आक्रमण  on 27 November 2008 .
The soybean ( US  ) or soya सेम  ( UK ) ( Glycine max ) is a species of legume native to East Asia , widely grown for its edible bean which has numerous uses .
The plant is classed as an  oilseed  rather than a pulse by the UN Food and Agricultural Organization ( FAO ) .
Fat-free ( defatted )  सोयाबीन भोजन is a significant और सस्ती सोर्स of प्रोटीन  for animal feeds and many prepackaged meals ; soy vegetable oil is another product of processing the soybean crop .
लिये उदाहरण , सोयाबीन उत्पाद ऐसे as textured सब्ज़ी प्रोटीन ( tvp ) हैं संघटक in अनेक मांस और दुग्ध analogues .
Soybeans produce significantly more protein per acre than most other uses  of जमीन  .
Traditional  nonfermented  food uses of soybeans include soy milk , and from the latter tofu and tofu skin .
Fermented foods include soy sauce , fermented bean paste ,  natto , और tempeh  , among others .
The oil is used in many industrial  अनुप्रयोग  .
The main  निर्माता of  soy are the United States ( 35 % ) , Brazil ( 27 % ) , Argentina ( 19 % ) , China ( 6 % ) and India ( 4 % ) .
The beans contain significant amounts  of phytic एसिड  , alpha-linolenic acid , and isoflavones .
Harrison Ford ( born July 13 ,  1942  ) is an American film actor and producer .
He is famous for his performances as Han Solo in the   original Star Wars trilogy and the title character of the Indiana Jones film series .
Ford is also known  लिये उसके भूमिकाएँ as  Rick Deckard in Blade Runner , John Book in Witness and Jack Ryan in Patriot Games and Clear and Present Danger .
His  career has  spanned six decades and includes roles in several Hollywood blockbusters , including Presumed Innocent , The Fugitive , Air Force One , and What Lies Beneath .
At one  पाइंट , चार of the  top six box-office hits of all time included one of his roles .
Five of his films have been inducted  into  the National Film Registry .
In 1997 , Ford was ranked No . 1 in Empire `` The Top 100  Movie  Stars of All Time '' list .
, the United  राज्य घरेलू बक्सा दफ्तर grosses  of Ford 's films total over US $ 3.5 billion , with worldwide grosses surpassing $ 6 billion , making Ford the third highest grossing U.S. domestic box-office star .
Ford is the husband of  अभिनेत्री calista flockhart  .
A  ट्यूब of  ChapStick
ChapStick is a brand name for lip balm manufactured by Pfizer Consumer Healthcare and used in many  देशों विश्वव्यापी .
it is  intended to help treat and prevent chapped lips ; hence the name .
Many varieties also include sunscreen in order to  prevent  sunburn .
Due to its popularity , the term has become a genericized  ट्रेडमार्क  .
It popularly refers to any lip balm contained in a lipstick-style tube and  लागू in the  same manner as lipstick .
However , the term is still a  पंजीकृत ट्रेडमार्क , साथ अधिकारों exclusively  owned by Pfizer .
In Sweden and in the United Kingdom , the product 's main competitor is Lypsyl , made by  novartis उपभोक्ता  Health , which is distributed in similar packaging to ChapStick .
George Berkeley ( ; 12 March 168514  जनवरी 1753  ) , also known as Bishop Berkeley ( Bishop of Cloyne ) , was an Anglo-Irish philosopher whose primary achievement was the advancement of a theory he called `` immaterialism '' ( later referred to as `` subjective idealism `` by others ) .
This theory denies the existence of material substance and instead contends that familiar objects like tables  और कुर्सियां हैं तभी विचार in the minds of perceivers  , and as a result can not exist without being perceived .
Thus , as Berkeley famously put it , for physical objects `` esse est percipi ''  ( `` to be is to be आभास  `` ) .
बर्कली is भी ज्ञात लिये उसके critique of abstraction , an महत्वपूर्ण आधार in उसके तर्क लिये immaterialism .
In 1709 , Berkeley published his first major work , , in which he discussed the limitations of human vision and advanced the theory that the proper objects of  sight हैं नहीं सामग्री वस्तुएँ , लकिन लाइट और  colour .
This foreshadowed his chief philosophical work A Treatise  concerning  the Principles of Human Knowledge in 1710 which , after its poor reception , he rewrote in dialogue form and published under the title Three Dialogues between Hylas and Philonous in 1713 .
In this book , Berkeley 's views were represented by Philonous ( Greek : 'lover of mind  ' ) , जबकि hylas ( यूनानी : 'मैटr ' )  embodies the Irish thinker’s opponents , in particular John Locke .
Berkeley argued against Sir Isaac Newton  's doctrine of निरपेक्ष स्पेस  , time and motion in De Motu ( on Motion ) , published 1721 .
उसके  arguments were a precursor to the views of Mach and Einstein .
In 1732 , he published Alciphron , a Christian apologetic against the free-thinkers , and in 1734 , he  प्रकाशित the विश्लेषक , an empiricist  critique of the foundations of infinitesimal calculus , which was influential in the development of mathematics .
His last major philosophical work , Siris ( 1744 ) , begins by advocating the  औषधीय उपयोग of तारकोल जल , और  then continues to discuss a wide range of topics including science , philosophy , and theology .
Interest in Berkeley 's work increased after World War II , because he tackled many of the issues of paramount interest to philosophy in the 20th century such as the problems of perception , the  अंतर between प्राथमिक और द्वितीयक qualities , और the  importance of language .
Qingdao ( ) , historically known  as tsingtao , is a प्रमुख  city in eastern Shandong province , Eastern China , with a population of over 8.715 million ( 2010 census ) .
Its built up area , made of 6 urban districts and 4 county-level cities , is home to about  4,896,000 निवासियों  in 2010 .
It borders Yantai to the northeast , Weifang to the west and  rizhao to the दक्षिणपश्चिम  .
Qīng ( ) in  चाइनीज अर्थात् ``  green '' or `` lush '' , while dǎo ( ) means `` island '' .
Qingdao is administered at the  sub-provincial  level .
Lying across the Shandong Peninsula while looking out to the Yellow Sea , Qingdao is  a  major seaport , naval base , and industrial centre .
It is  भी  the site of the Tsingtao Brewery .
The world 's longest sea bridge , the Qingdao Haiwan Bridge , links  the प्रमुख शहरी क्षेत्रफल of  Qingdao with Huangdao district , straddling the Jiaozhou Bay sea areas .
Qingdao is named  चीन  's most livable city .
Mimivirus is a  वाइरल genus containing  a single identified species named Acanthamoeba polyphaga mimivirus ( APMV ) , or is a group of phylogenetically related large viruses ( designated usually MimiN ) .
In colloquial speech , APMV is  अधिक commonly  referred to as just `` mimivirus '' .
Until October 2011 , when a larger virus  megavirus  chilensis was described , it had the largest capsid diameter of all known viruses .
Mimivirus has a large and complex genome compared  साथ सबसे अन्य वाइरस  .
Mimivirus , short for `` mimicking microbe '' , is so called to reflect its  विशाल आकार  and apparent Gram-staining properties .
the मैक्सिकन युद्ध of स्वतंत्रता ( 1810–1821 ) थी an हथियारबंद विरोध between the लोगों of मैक्सिको और the स्पेनी औपनिवेशिक अधिकारियों जिससे प्रारंभ on सितंबर 16 , 1810 .
The movement , which became known as the Mexican War of Independence , was led by Mexican-born Spaniards ,  mestizos और amerindians  who sought independence from Spain .
It started as an idealistic peasants ' rebellion against their colonial masters , but ended as an unlikely   alliance between Mexican ex-royalists and Mexican guerrilla insurgents .
Crohn 's disease , also known as Crohn syndrome and regional enteritis , is a  प्रकार of जलन  bowel disease that may affect any part of the gastrointestinal tract from mouth to anus , causing a wide variety of symptoms .
It primarily causes abdominal pain , diarrhea (  जिससे may be खूनी if सूजन  is at its worst ) , vomiting ( can be continuous ) , or weight loss , but may also cause complications outside the gastrointestinal tract such as skin rashes , arthritis , inflammation of the eye , tiredness , and lack of concentration .
Crohn 's disease is caused by interactions between environmental ,  immunological  and bacterial factors in genetically susceptible individuals .
This results in a chronic inflammatory disorder , in which the body 's immune  प्रणाली हमले the जठरांत्र ट्रैक्ट संभवतः  directed at microbial antigens .
Crohn 's disease has wrongly been described as an autoimmune disease in the  पास्ट ; हाल जांचकर्ताओं  have described it as an immune deficiency state .
There is a genetic association with Crohn 's disease ,   primarily with variations of the NOD2 gene and its protein , which senses bacterial cell walls .
Siblings of affected  individuals  are at higher risk .
Males and females  हैं बराबर  affected .
smokers  are two times more likely to develop Crohn 's disease than nonsmokers .
Crohn 's disease affects between 400,000 and 600,000  लोगों in उत्तर अमेरिका  .
व्यापकता  estimates for Northern Europe have ranged from 27–48 per 100,000 .
Crohn 's disease tends to present initially in the teens and twenties , with  another शिखर incidence  in the fifties to seventies , although the disease can occur at any age .
वहीँ  is no known pharmaceutical or surgical cure for Crohn 's disease .
Treatment options are restricted to  controlling लक्षण , maintaining  remission , and preventing relapse .
The disease was named after gastroenterologist Burrill Bernard Crohn , who , in 1932 , together with two other colleagues at  माउंट sinai हॉस्पिटल in नई यॉर्क , वर्णित a  series of patients with inflammation of the terminal ileum , the area most commonly affected by the illness .
This is an incomplete list of the  tallest  buildings and structures by country .
The list directly includes the tallest  इमारतें और structures  for each country , and where appropriate , it also points to more detailed country-specific lists .
अशिष्ट और तैयार  is a census-designated place in Nevada County , California , United States .
It is located west of Grass Valley , California ,  लगभग  62 miles ( 100 km ) from Sacramento .
the जनसांख्यिकी  was 963 at the 2010 census .
YouTube is a  video-sharing जालस्थल , निर्मित by तीन पूर्व  PayPal employees in February 2005 , on which users can upload , view and share videos .
The  कम्पनी is आधारित  in San Bruno , California , and uses Adobe Flash Video and HTML5 technology to display a wide variety of user-generated video content , including movie clips , TV clips , and music videos , as well as amateur content such as video blogging , short original videos , and educational videos .
Most of the content on YouTube has been uploaded by individuals , although media corporations including CBS , the BBC , Vevo , Hulu , and other organizations offer some of their material via the site , as part of the  youtube साझेदारी  program .
Unregistered users can watch videos , while   registered users can upload an unlimited number of videos .
Videos considered to contain potentially offensive content are  उपलब्धियाँ तभी  to registered users at least 18 years old .
In November 2006 , YouTube , LLC was bought by Google for US $ 1.65 billion , and operates  as a subsidiary of  Google .
Sister Act is a musical written by Cheri  steinkellner  and Bill Steinkellner with additional book material by Douglas Carter Beane , with lyrics by Glenn Slater and music by Alan Menken .
It is based on the hit 1992  फिल्मी  comedy of the same name .
The 2009 West End production was produced by Stage Entertainment , Whoopi   Goldberg , and Michael Reno for Sis Acts LLC .
Goldberg is also a producer of the 2011  ब्रॉडवे अनुकूलन  .
Microsoft DirectX is a collection of application programming interfaces (  api  ) for handling tasks related to multimedia , especially game programming and video , on Microsoft platforms .
Originally , the names of these  APIs all  began with Direct , such as Direct3D , DirectDraw , DirectMusic , DirectPlay , DirectSound , and so forth .
The name DirectX was  coined as आशुलिपि पद लिये सब of ये api ( the x खड़ा in लिये the particular api names ) और जल्द became the नाम of the संग्रहण .
When Microsoft later set out to develop a gaming console , the X was used as the basis of the name Xbox to indicate that the console was based  on  DirectX technology .
The X initial has been carried forward in the naming of APIs designed for the Xbox such as XInput and the Cross-platform Audio Creation Tool ( XACT ) , while  the डाइरेक्टएक्स पैटर्न रै महरूम जारी लिये खिड़कियाँ api ऐसे as  Direct2D and DirectWrite .
Direct3D ( the 3D graphics API within DirectX ) is widely used in the development of video games for Microsoft Windows , Microsoft Xbox ,  microsoft एक्सबॉक्स 360 और कुछ  Sega Dreamcast games .
direct3d is भी प्रयुक्त by अन्य तन्त्र अनुप्रयोग लिये कल्पना और ग्राफिक्स कार्य ऐसे as cad/cam अभियान्त्रिकी .
As Direct3D is the most widely publicized component of DirectX , it is common to see the names ``  डाइरेक्टएक्स ''  and `` Direct3D '' used interchangeably .
The DirectX software development kit ( SDK ) consists of runtime libraries in redistributable binary form , along with accompanying documentation  और headers लिये उपयोग in कोडिंग  .
Originally ,  the runtimes  were only installed by games or explicitly by the user .
Windows 95 did not launch with DirectX , but DirectX was included with Windows 95 OEM  सेवा  Release 2 .
Windows 98 and Windows NT 4.0 both shipped with DirectX , as has every version of Windows  released चूंकि .
The SDK is  उपलब्धियाँ as  a free download .
While the runtimes are proprietary  ,  closed-source software , source code is provided for most of the SDK samples .
Starting with the release of Windows 8 Developer Preview , DirectX SDK has been  एकीकृत into खिड़कियाँ  SDK .
Direct3D 9Ex , Direct3D 10 , and Direct3D 11 are only available for  Windows Vista  and newer because each of these new versions was built to depend upon the new Windows Display Driver Model that was introduced for Windows Vista .
The new Vista/WDDM graphics architecture includes a new video memory manager supporting virtualization of graphics hardware for  विभिन्न अनुप्रयोग और सेवाएं जैसे the डेस्कटॉप  Window Manager .
quetzaltenango , भी commonly ज्ञात by इसके  indigenous name , Xelajú , or more commonly , Xela , is the second largest city of Guatemala .
It is both the capital of Quetzaltenango  विभाग  and the municipal seat of Quetzaltenango municipality .
It has an estimated  जनसांख्यिकी  of 224,703 .
The population is about 61  %  indigenous or Amerindian , 34 % Mestizo or ladino and 5 % European .
Quetzaltenango is located in a mountain valley at an elevation of 2,330 meters ( 7,655  ft ) ऊपर समुद्र स्तर at इसके न्यूनतम  part .
It may reach above 2,400  मीटर भीतर the नगर  .
The Municipality of  quetzaltenango  consists of an area of .
municipalities  abutting the municipality of Quetzaltenango include : Salcajá , Cantel , Almolonga , Zunil , El Palmar , Concepción Chiquirichapa , San Mateo , La Esperanza , Olintepeque , and San Andrés Xecul .
All  ये municipalities  are part of the Department of Quetzaltenango , except San Andrés Xecul which is a part of the Department of Totonicapán .
The Epic of Gilgamesh , an epic poem from Mesopotamia , is  amongst the earliest  surviving works of literature .
The literary history of Gilgamesh begins with five independent Sumerian poems about 'Bilgamesh ' ( Sumerian for  gilgamesh ) , किंग of uruk  .
Four of these were  प्रयुक्त as सोर्स  material for a combined epic in Akkadian .
इस  first combined epic , known as the `` Old Babylonian '' version , dates to the 18th century BC and is titled after its incipit , Shūtur eli sharrī ( `` Surpassing All Other Kings '' ) .
Only  a few  fragments of it have survived .
The later `` Standard Babylonian '' version dates from the 13th to the 10th centuries BC and bears the incipit  Sha  naqba īmuru ( `` He who Saw the Deep '' ) .
Fragments of approximately  दो तिहाई  of this longer , twelve-tablet version have been recovered .
Some of the best copies were discovered in the library  तबाह of  the 7th-century BC Assyrian king Ashurbanipal .
The story centers on a friendship between Gilgamesh   and Enkidu .
Enkidu is a wild man created by the gods  as gilgamesh 's  equal to distract him from oppressing the people of Uruk .
Together , they journey to the  देवदार  Mountain to defeat Humbaba , its monstrous guardian .
Later they kill the Bull of Heaven  , जिससे the देवी इश्तार भेजना to सजा  Gilgamesh for spurning her advances .
As a punishment for  ये  actions , the gods sentence Enkidu to death .
The second half of the epic  focuses  on Gilgamesh 's distress at Enkidu 's death , and his quest for immortality .
In order to learn the secret of eternal life ,  gilgamesh undertakes  a long and perilous journey .
He learns that `` The  जीवन कि तुम  are seeking you will never find .
When the gods created man they allotted to him death ,  लकिन जीवन  they retained in their own keeping . ''
This quote was originally attributed to Siduri in the Old Babylonian version of the epic , and then attributed to the immortal  बाढ़ नायिका utnapishtim in the  Akkadian version of the epic .
Nevertheless , Gilgamesh 's fame lived on after his death , because of his great  भवन प्रोजेक्ट , और उसके  account of what Utnapishtim told him happened during the flood .
The story has been translated into many different languages , and Gilgamesh has since become adapted in works  of  popular fiction .
There are numerous debates over who created the first video game , with  the जवाब depending largely  on how video games are defined .
The evolution of video games represents a tangled web  of अनेक अलग उद्योग  , including scientific , computer , arcade , and consumer electronics .
The `` video '' in ``  वीडियो खेल `` traditionally  refers to a raster display device .
With the popular catch phrase  उपयोग of the पद  `` video game '' , the term now implies all display types , formats , and platforms .
Historians have also sought to bypass the issue by instead using the more  विशिष्ट `` डिजिटल खेल  '' descriptive .
This term leaves out the earlier  analog-based कंप्यूटर  games .
This is a list of best-selling video game  franchises कि have बेची  or shipped at least 5 million copies .
Unless otherwise stated , numbers indicate worldwide units  बेची , ordered alphabetically  whenever two or more list the same amount .
The exception are the   ones specifying shipments , which have lower precedence than others listing sales .
Franchise sales include expansion packs even  हालांकि वे हैं नहीं  considered full video games .
For best-selling individual video games , see List of best-selling  वीडियो खेल  .
The sales  आंकड़े दिए नीचे  do not include arcade game sales , which can be found at List of highest-grossing arcade video games .
– This  रंग indicates a sub-series of  a larger video game franchise .
This does not necessarily apply for  श्रेणी कि हैं नहीं  video game-based .
Dorothy Ann Willis Richards ( September  1 , 1933 – सितंबर 13 , 2006 ) थी  an American politician and the 45th Governor of Texas .
She first came to national attention as the state treasurer of Texas , when she delivered the  keynote पता  at the 1988 Democratic National Convention .
Richards served as the 45th Governor of Texas from  1991 to 1995 और थी पराजित  for re-election in 1994 by George W. Bush .
Ann Richards   was the second female governor of Texas .
Data Execution Prevention ( DEP ) is a security feature included in modern operating   systems .
It is known to be available in Linux  , मैक os  X , iOS , Microsoft Windows and Android operating systems and is intended to prevent an application or service from executing code from a non-executable memory region .
This helps prevent certain exploits  कि स्टोर कोड via a बफ़र  overflow , for example .
DEP runs in two modes : hardware-enforced DEP for CPUs that can mark memory pages as nonexecutable , and software-enforced DEP with limited protection for CPUs that do  नहीं have हार्डवेयर  support .
Software-enforced DEP  करता नहीं protect  against execution of code in data pages , but instead counters SEH overwrite , another type of attack .
DEP was  introduced on लिनक्स in 2004 (  kernel 2.6.8 ) , on Windows in 2004 with Windows XP Service Pack 2 , while Apple introduced DEP when they moved to x86 in 2006 .
Example  उदाहरण  of two common futanari variants
, is the Japanese word for hermaphroditism ,  जिससे is भी प्रयुक्त in  a broader sense for androgyny .
Beyond Japan the term is used to describe a commonly pornographic genre of  कंप्यूटर खेल , कॉमिक्स और एनिमेशन , जिससे शामिल वर्ण  that show both primary sexual characteristics .
But  in आज 's भाषा it refers  almost exclusively for characters who have an overall feminine appearance .
In that case the term is also often abbreviated as futa ( s ) , which is occasionally also used as  पद लिये  the works itself .
Early CAPTCHAs such as these ,  उत्पन्न by the  EZ-Gimpy program , were used on Yahoo !
A modern CAPTCHA , rather than attempting to create a distorted background and high levels of warping on  the टेक्स्ट , might फ़ोकस on बनाना segmentation मुश्किल  by adding an angled line .
Another way to make  segmentation मुश्किल is to भीड प्रतीकों  together , as in Yahoo ! 's current CAPTCHA format .
Some CAPTCHAs try to utilize the ability of people to see  three-dimensional  objects .
On this  चित्र ,  symbols are drawn with lines of different thickness to make an effect of extrusion .
A CAPTCHA ( ) is a type of challenge-response test used in computing as an attempt to   ensure that the response is generated by a human being .
The process usually involves a computer asking a user to complete a  सरल परीक्षण जिससे the कंप्यूटर  is able to grade .
These tests are designed to be easy for a computer to generate but difficult for a computer to solve , but again easy for  a इंसान  .
If  a सही  solution is received , it can be presumed to have been entered by a human .
A common type of CAPTCHA requires the user to type letters and/or digits from a distorted image that appears on the   screen .
Such tests are commonly used to prevent unwanted internet bots from accessing websites , since a normal human can easily read a CAPTCHA ,  जबकि  the bot can not process the image letters and therefore , can not answer properly , or at all .
Although most CAPTCHAs are letter pictures randomly generated , many of them have become difficult even for a human to read , so picture CAPTCHAs were created in which a human is shown a simple test to show a picture of a certain animal ( given few animal pictures ) , which is simple for a  इंसान होने to प्रक्रम , और इसलिए आसान to चुनें , जबकि a bot can नहीं प्रक्रम और  solve the question because although it can analyze the picture , it can not easily guess the animal .
The term `` CAPTCHA ''   was coined in 2000 by Luis von Ahn , Manuel Blum , Nicholas J. Hopper , and John Langford ( all of Carnegie Mellon University ) .
It is an acronym based on the word `` capture '' and standing for `` Completely  स्वचालित  Public Turing test to tell Computers and Humans Apart '' .
Carnegie Mellon University attempted to trademark the term on 15 October 2004 , but the trademark application was  abandoned on  21 April 2008 .
A CAPTCHA is sometimes described as a reverse Turing  परीक्षण , क्युकी it is administered by a  machine and targeted at a human , in contrast to the standard Turing test that is typically administered by a human and targeted at a machine .
Jacques-Yves Cousteau ( ; commonly known in English as Jacques Cousteau ; 11 June 1910 – 25 June 1997 ) was a French naval officer , explorer , conservationist , filmmaker , innovator , scientist  ,  photographer , author and researcher who studied the sea and all forms of life in water .
He co-developed   the Aqua-Lung , pioneered marine conservation and was a member of the Académie française .
KFC ( Kentucky Fried Chicken ) is a fast food restaurant chain headquartered in Louisville , Kentucky ,  संयुक्त राज्य , जिससे specializes in fried  chicken .
An `` American icon '' , it is the world 's second largest restaurant chain overall ( as measured by sales  ) बाद मैकडोनाल्ड 's , साथ over  18,000 outlets in 120 countries and territories .
The company is a subsidiary  of यम  !
ब्रांड्स , a  restaurant company which also owns Pizza Hut and Taco Bell .
KFC was founded by  harland सैंडर्स , जो began selling fried मुर्गा  from his roadside restaurant in Corbin , Kentucky during the Great Depression .
Sanders was one of the first people to see the potential of the restaurant franchising concept , with the first `` Kentucky Fried Chicken ''  मताधिकार खोलने  in Utah in 1952 .
The franchise popularized chicken in the fast food industry , thereby diversifying the  मार्केट और चुनौतीपूर्ण the दबदबा  of the hamburger .
Marketing himself as `` Colonel Sanders '' , he became a  legendary फिगर of अमरीकी  cultural history , and his image is still prominently used in KFC branding .
The company 's rapid expansion saw it grow too large for Sanders  to मैनेज , और in 1964 he बेची the कम्पनी  to a group of investors led by John Y . Brown , Jr. and Jack Massey .
KFC was one of the first fast food chains to expand internationally , opening outlets  in इंग्लैण्ड , मैक्सिको  and Puerto Rico by the mid-1960s .
Throughout the 1970s and 1980s , KFC experienced mixed fortunes domestically , as it  गई through a श्रेणी  of corporate owners who had little or no experience in the restaurant business .
In the early 1970s , KFC was sold to the spirits firm Heublein , who were taken over by the R.J. Reynolds food and  तम्बाकू संगुटिका , जो  sold the chain to PepsiCo .
The chain continued to expand overseas however , and in 1987 KFC became the   first Western restaurant chain to open in China .
the कड़ी रै चूंकि विस्तारित rapidly in चीन , और the देश is अभी the कम्पनी 's सबसे लाभप्रद  market .
PepsiCo spun off its restaurants division as Tricon Global Restaurants , which  बाद बदला इसके नाम  to Yum !
ब्रांड्स  .
KFC primarily sells fried chicken pieces and variations such as chicken sandwiches and  wraps , सलाद और पक्ष बर्तन ऐसे  as French fries and coleslaw , desserts and soft drinks , often supplied by PepsiCo .
Its most famous  उत्पाद is दबाव  fried chicken pieces , seasoned with Sanders ' `` Original Recipe '' of 11 herbs and spices .
The exact nature of these ingredients is unknown , and represents a notable trade  रहस्य  .
Larger portions of fried chicken are served in a distinctive cardboard `` bucket '' , which has become a signature  of  the chain since being introduced by franchisee Pete Harman .
KFC is famous for the slogan `` finger lickin ' good '' , which has since been replaced by ``  nobody करता मुर्गा जैसे केएफसी ''  and `` So good '' .
Cnidaria ( with a silent c ) or Coelenterata is a phylum containing over 10,000 species  of  animals found exclusively in aquatic and mostly marine environments .
Their distinguishing feature is cnidocytes , specialized cells that they use mainly  लिये capturing  prey .
Their bodies consist of mesoglea , a non-living jelly-like substance , sandwiched between two  परतों of epithelium कि  are mostly one cell thick .
वे have दो  basic body forms : swimming medusae and sessile polyps , both of which are radially symmetrical with mouths surrounded by tentacles that bear cnidocytes .
दोनो फ़ॉर्म have a सिंगल orifice और देह गुहा कि हैं प्रयुक्त लिये पाचन और श्वसन .
Many cnidarian  प्रजाति  produce colonies that are single organisms composed of medusa-like or polyp-like zooids , or both .
Cnidarians ' activities are coordinated by a decentralized nerve net and  सरल receptors  .
Several  free-swimming cubozoa और scyphozoa  possess balance-sensing statocysts , and some have simple eyes .
Not  सब cnidarians  reproduce sexually .
Many have complex lifecycles with asexual polyp stages and sexual medusae  , लकिन कुछ omit either the polyp or the  medusa stage .
cnidarians यहूद लिये a long  time grouped with Ctenophores in the phylum Coelenterata , but increasing awareness of their differences caused them to be placed in separate phyla .
Cnidarians are classified into four main groups : the almost wholly sessile Anthozoa ( sea anemones , corals , sea pens ) ; swimming Scyphozoa ( jellyfish ) ; Cubozoa ( box jellies ) ; and  hydrozoa , a विविध समूह कि शामिल सब the freshwater  cnidarians as well as many marine forms , and has both sessile members such as Hydra and colonial swimmers such as the Portuguese Man o ' War .
Staurozoa have recently been recognised as a class in their own right rather than a sub-group of  scyphozoa , और वहीँ is बहस परिचय whether myxozoa और polypodiozoa  are cnidarians or closer to bilaterians ( more complex animals ) .
सबसे cnidarians शिकार on जीवों ranging in आकार इससे प्लवक to पशु अनेक टाइम्स larger than themselves , लकिन अनेक obtain much of उनके पोषण इससे endosymbiotic शैवाल , और a few हैं  parasites .
अनेक हैं preyed upon by अन्य पशु सहित starfish , समुद्र slugs , मछली और टर्टल्स .
Coral reefs , whose polyps are rich in endosymbiotic algae , support some of the world 's most productive ecosystems  , और protect वनस्पति in tidal  zones and on shorelines from strong currents and tides .
While corals are almost entirely restricted to warm , shallow marine waters , other cnidarians live in the depths  , in ध्रुवीय समंदर और in freshwater  .
Fossil  cnidarians have  been found in rocks formed about , and other fossils show that corals may have been present shortly before and diversified a few million years later .
Fossils of  cnidarians कि do  not build mineralized structures are very rare .
Scientists currently think that cnidarians , ctenophores and bilaterians are more closely related to calcareous  sponges  than these are to other sponges , and that anthozoans are the evolutionary `` aunts '' or `` sisters '' of other cnidarians , and the most closely related to bilaterians .
Recent analyses have concluded that cnidarians ,  हालांकि माना  more `` primitive '' than bilaterians , have a wider range of genes .
The Aztec  पिरामिड  at St. Cecilia Acatitlan , Mexico State .
Aztec jade mask depicting the god  xipe totec  .
Large ceramic statue  of an  Aztec Eagle Warrior
Aztec cosmogram in the pre-Hispanic Codex Fejérváry-Mayer - the fire god Xiuhtecuhtli is in the  बीच  .
The Aztec people were certain ethnic groups of central Mexico , particularly those groups who spoke the Nahuatl language and who dominated large parts of  मेसोअमेरिका  from the 14th to 16th centuries .
The Nahuatl words aztecatl ( singular ) and aztecah ( plural ) mean `` people from Aztlan `` , a mythological place for the Nahuatl-speaking culture of the time , and later adopted as the word to define the  mexica  people .
Often the term `` Aztec '' refers   exclusively to the Mexica people of Tenochtitlan ( now the location of Mexico City ) , situated on an island in Lake Texcoco , who referred to themselves as Mexica Tenochca or Cōlhuah Mexica .
Sometimes the term also includes the inhabitants of  tenochtitlan 's दो प्रिंसिपल अलाइड city-states ,  the Acolhuas of Texcoco and the Tepanecs of Tlacopan , who together with the Mexica formed the Aztec Triple Alliance which controlled what is often known as `` the Aztec Empire '' .
In other contexts , Aztec may refer to all the various city  राज्य और उनके peoples , जो साझा विशाल भाग of उनके जातीय  history and cultural traits with the Mexica , Acolhua and Tepanecs , and who often also used the Nahuatl language as a lingua franca .
In this meaning it is possible to talk about an Aztec civilization including all the particular cultural patterns common for most of the  peoples inhabiting सेंट्रल  Mexico in the late postclassic period .
From the 13th century , the Valley of Mexico was the heart of Aztec civilization : here the capital of the Aztec Triple  गठबंधन  , the city of Tenochtitlan , was built upon raised islets in Lake Texcoco .
The Triple Alliance formed a tributary empire expanding its political hegemony  दूर  beyond the Valley of Mexico , conquering other city states throughout Mesoamerica .
At its pinnacle , Aztec culture had rich and  जटिल  mythological and religious traditions , as well as reaching remarkable architectural and artistic accomplishments .
In 1521 Hernán Cortés , along with a large number of Nahuatl speaking indigenous allies ,  conquered tenochtitlan और पराजित the एज़टेक ट्रिपल गठबंधन  under the leadership of Hueyi Tlatoani Moctezuma II .
Subsequently the Spanish founded the new settlement of Mexico City on the site of the ruined Aztec capital , from where they proceeded  साथ the प्रक्रम of colonizing सेंट्रल  America .
Aztec culture and history is primarily known through archaeological evidence found in excavations such as that of the renowned Templo Mayor in Mexico City ; from indigenous bark paper codices ; from eyewitness accounts by Spanish  conquistadors ऐसे as hernán cortés और बर्नल  Díaz del Castillo ; and especially from 16th and 17th century descriptions of Aztec culture and history written by Spanish clergymen and literate Aztecs in the Spanish or Nahuatl language , such as the famous Florentine Codex compiled by the Franciscan monk Bernardino de Sahagún with the help of indigenous Aztec informants .
Anderson Hays Cooper ( born June 3 , 1967 )  is an अमरीकी  journalist , author , and television personality .
He is the primary anchor of  the सीएनएन न्यूज  show Anderson Cooper 360° .
The  कार्यक्रम  is normally broadcast live from a New York City studio ; however , Cooper often broadcasts live on location for breaking news stories .
As of September 2011 , he also serves as host of his own eponymous syndicated daytime  बात दिखाएँ , एंडरसन सजीव , जिससे होगा  be cancelled at the end of the second season .
A plot of a normal distribution ( or bell-shaped curve ) where each band has a width of 1 standard  विचलन – देखिए भी : 68-95-99.7  rule
Cumulative probability of a normal distribution with expected  मान 0 और मानक विचलन  1 .
In  आंकडे और संभाव्यता  theory , standard deviation ( represented by the symbol sigma , σ ) shows how much variation or dispersion exists from the average ( mean ) , or expected value .
A low standard deviation indicates that the data  अंक tend to be  very close to the mean ; high standard deviation indicates that the data points are spread out over a large range of values .
The standard deviation of a random variable , statistical population  , आंकड़ा  set , or probability distribution is the square root of its variance .
It is algebraically simpler though practically less robust than  the औसत निरपेक्ष विचलन  .
A useful property of standard deviation is that , unlike  variance , it is expressed in the  same units as the data .
Note , however , that for  माप  with percentage as unit , the standard deviation will have percentage points as unit .
In addition to expressing the variability of a population , standard deviation is commonly used to measure  विश्वास in सांख्यिकीय  conclusions .
For example , the margin of error in polling data is determined by  calculating the अपेक्षित  standard deviation in the results if the same poll were to be conducted multiple times .
The reported margin of error is typically about twice the standard deviation ­– the radius of a   95 percent confidence interval .
In science , researchers commonly report the standard deviation of experimental data , and only effects  कि पतन दूर बाहर the दायरा of मानक विचलन हैं माना statistically  significant – normal random error or variation in the measurements is in this way distinguished from causal variation .
Standard deviation is also important in finance , where the standard deviation on the rate of  वापसी on an निवेश  is a measure of the volatility of the investment .
When only a  नमूना of आंकड़ा इससे a जनसांख्यिकी  is available , the standard deviation of the population can be estimated by a modified quantity called the `` sample standard deviation '' .
जब the  sample is the entire population , its unmodified standard deviation is called the `` population standard deviation '' .
Ulluco ( u : ju : kɔ : ) (  ullucus tuberosus )  is a plant grown primarily as a root vegetable , secondarily as a leaf vegetable .
The ulluco is one of the most widely grown and economically important root crops in the Andean  प्रदेश of दक्षिण अमेरिका  , second only to the potato .
It is  ज्ञात वहीँ साथ the आम नाम of पापा  lisa , but also by the regional names melloco ( Ecuador ) , olluco ( Peru ) , chugua ( Colombia ) or ruba ( Venezuela ) , among others .
The leaf and the tuber are edible , similar to spinach and the  आलू  , respectively .
They are known to contain high levels of protein , calcium , and  केरोटीन  .
Papalisa were used by the Incas  prior  to arrival of Europeans in South America .
ulluco tubers हैं marketed as `` धरती रत्नों '' in नई जीलैंड , by halfords exotic उपज .
Ulluco tubers in New  जीलैंड
An April 24 ,  1851 पोस्टर चेतावनी the  `` colored people of Boston '' about policemen acting as slave catchers .
The Fugitive Slave Law or Fugitive Slave Act was passed by the United States  कॉंग्रेस on सितंबर 18 , 1850 , as  part of the Compromise of 1850 between Southern slave-holding interests and Northern Free-Soilers .
This was one of the most controversial acts of the 1850 compromise and  heightened उत्तरी  fears of a `` slave power conspiracy '' .
It declared  कि सब runaway स्लेव यहूद  , upon capture , to be returned to their masters .
Abolitionists nicknamed it the   `` Bloodhound Law '' for the dogs that were used to track down runaway slaves .
Frank Joseph  pallone , jr.  ( born October 30 , 1951 ) is the U.S. Representative for , serving since 1993 .
He is a  सदस्य of  the Democratic Party .
He previously represented the 3rd district  इससे 1988  to 1993 .
Trin-i-tee 5:7   is a gospel duo from New Orleans , Louisiana in the United States .
The group was marketed as a gospel alternative to R & B  लड़की समूह ऐसे as नियति  's Child and TLC .
Trin-i-tee 5:7 has sold  over 2.5 लाख  albums .
In 1998 , the group released their first album entitled Trin-i-tee 5:7 which debut at  # 1 on the शीर्ष  Gospel charts .
The album  प्रदर्शित  the songs `` God 's Grace '' and the cover song `` Oh !
Mary Do  n't तुम  Weep '' .
The album later  became  certified gold .
In 1999 , Terri Brown left the group and was later replaced by  सिंगर  Adrian Anderson .
During that year , the group recorded and released their second album ,  आध्यात्मिक  Love .
The album became the group 's second # 1 album on the Top Gospel  चार्ट  .
the एल्बम  contained the singles `` Put Your Hands '' and `` My Body '' .
In 2002 , the group released their third album  the चुंबन जिससे debuted at  # 2 on the Top Gospel charts .
In 2007 , the  समूह  left GospoCentric Records and signed a record deal with Spirit Rising Music .
In late 2007 , Trin-i-tee  5:7 released उनके पांचवां  album T57 , which featured the top ten gospel single `` Listen '' .
T57 charted # 2 on the Top Gospel Albums , # 5 on the Top Christian charts , and # 12 on   the Top R & B charts .
The United States federal earned income tax credit or earned income credit ( EITC or EIC ) is a  refundable कर क्रेडिट लिये low- और medium-income  individuals and couples , primarily for those who have qualifying children .
When the  क्रेडिट exceeds  the amount of taxes owed , it results in a tax refund to those who claim the credit .
This credit is provided to offset the burden  of सोशल सुरक्षा कर  and also to promote an incentive to work .
In order for a person or couple to claim one or more persons as their qualifying child ( ren ) , the age , relationship , and shared residency  आवश्यकताएँ  must be met , as well as some other requirements .
U.S. tax forms 1040EZ , 1040A , or 1040 can be used to claim EIC without qualifying   children .
To claim the credit  साथ qualifying children , 1040a  or 1040 must be used , as well as attaching Schedule EIC .
EIC phases in slowly , has a medium-length  पठार , और तब  phases out more slowly than it phased in .
Since the credit phases out at 21 % ( for two children and for three or more  qualilfying children  ) or 16 % ( for one qualifying child ) , it is always preferable to have one more dollar of actual salary or wages ( although technically , since the EIC table moves by fifty dollar increments , it 's always preferable to have an extra fifty-dollar increment of salary or wages ) .
For tax year 2011 , the maximum EIC for a single person or couple filing without  qualifying children थी  $ 464 .
The maximum EIC with one qualifying child was $ 3,094 , with two children was $ 5,112 , and  साथ तीन or अधिक qualifying  children was $ 5,751 .
These amounts are indexed annually for  महंगाई  .
The earned income tax credit has been part of political debates in the United States regarding whether raising the minimum wage or increasing EIC will better  पता a seeming shortage  of good-paying jobs .
The following is a list of halftime shows held at the  नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग 's चैंपियनशिप खेल ,  the Super Bowl .
While halftime shows are a tradition during football games at all levels of competition , the Super Bowl  मध्यांतर दिखाएँ  represents a fundamental link to pop culture , which helps broaden the television audience and nationwide interest .
In most years since the mid-1980s , the halftime show of the Super Bowl has featured popular recording  कलाकारों  and other well-known celebrities .
It has measurably  increased टेलीविज़न  viewers during and after the halftime show .
The performance is regarded one of the most-watched events in  अमरीकी टेलीविज़न  annually with over 100 million viewers in the United States alone .
Musical genres over the years have represented a broad range of music  प्रकार , सहित पॉप , चट्टान , क्लासिक  rock , country , hip hop , rap , blues , and soul .
In some years , short skits or drama scenes  हैं  acted out on a stage .
The performance group Up with People has performed at the most  सुपर कटोरी मध्यांतर shows  , starring in four during the 1970s and 1980s .
According to Nielsen ratings , Super Bowl XLVI halftime show headlined by Madonna in 2012 remains the most-watched halftime show in history , with 114  लाख दर्शक or परिचय 3 लाख अधिक than the  actual game .
Beyonce  's 2013 मध्यांतर दिखाएँ  performance was the second most viewed show in history .
It is listed on the  गिनीज संसार रिकॉर्ड  as the largest TV audience for a Super Bowl half-time performance .
International Men 's Day ( IMD ) is an annual international event celebrated  on 19th  November .
Inaugurated in 1999 in Trinidad and Tobago , the day and its events find support  इससे a किस्में of  individuals and groups in Australia , the Caribbean , North America , Asia , Europe and Africa .
Speaking on behalf of UNESCO , Director of Women and Culture of Peace Ingeborg Breines said of IMD  , `` इस is an बेहतरीन  idea and would give some gender balance . ''
She added that  युनेस्को थी looking  forward to cooperating with the organizers .
The objectives of celebrating an International Men 's Day include focusing on men 's and boys ' health , improving  लिंग संबंध , promoting  gender equality , and highlighting positive male role models .
It is an occasion to  हाइलाइट पक्षपात  against men and boys and to celebrate their achievements and contributions , in particular for their contributions to community , family , marriage , and child care .
The broader and  परम उद्देश्य of the इवेंट  is to promote basic humanitarian values .
International Men 's Day is celebrated in over 60 countries , including Trinidad and Tobago , Jamaica , Australia , India , China , United States , Romania , Singapore , Malta , United Kingdom , South Africa , Tanzania , Zimbabwe , Botswana , Seychelles , Burundi , Hungary , Ireland , Isle of Man , Ghana , Canada , Denmark , Norway , Austria , Bosnia and Herzegovina , Ukraine , France , Italy , Pakistan , Cuba , Antigua and Barbuda , St. Kitts and Nevis , St. Lucia , Grenada and Cayman Islands , on 19  नवम्बर , और वैश्विक support लिये the जश्न is व्यापक  .
Valley  गाँव parkvalley
Village is a district in the San Fernando Valley region of Los  एंजिल्स  , California .
The median age of its population , at 36  , is  `` old for the city of Los Angeles . '' and its average household size of two people is low , compared to other parts of the city .
Developmental psychology is the scientific study of changes that occur in human  beings over the  course of their life span .
Originally  चिंतित साथ infants और children ,  the field has expanded to include adolescence , adult development , aging , and the entire life span .
This field examines change across a broad  दायरा of विषय सहित मोटर कौशल और अन्य psycho-physiological  processes ; cognitive development involving areas such as problem solving , moral understanding , and conceptual understanding ; language acquisition ; social , personality , and emotional development ; and self-concept and identity formation .
Developmental  मनोविज्ञान शामिल मुद्दे ऐसे as  the extent to which development occurs through the gradual accumulation of knowledge versus stage-like development , or the extent to which children are born with innate mental structures versus learning through experience .
अनेक शोधकर्ताओं हैं दिलचस्पी in the बातचीत between निजी विशेषताएँ , the  individual 's behavior , and environmental factors including social context , and their impact on development ; others take a more narrowly-focused approach .
developmental मनोविज्ञान informs अनेक लागू फ़ील्ड , सहित : शैक्षणिक मनोविज्ञान , चाइल्ड psychopathology , और forensic developmental  psychology .
Developmental psychology complements several  अन्य  basic research fields in psychology including social psychology , cognitive psychology , ecological psychology , and comparative psychology .
Joseph Michael `` Joey '' Stivic is a  fictional अक्षर जो पहला  appeared on the 1970s American sitcom All in the Family .
Joey Stivic was the son and only child of Mike Stivic ( played by Rob Reiner ) and Gloria Stivic ( played by Sally Struthers ) , and the grandson of Archie Bunker ( Carroll O'Connor ) and Edith Bunker (  जां stapleton  ) .
The character first appeared as a  नवजात  baby in a two-part episode of All in the Family which aired in December 1975 .
After many appearances on All in the Family until Reiner and Struthers left the series in 1978 ( by that time , Joey had been played most often by alternating twins Jason and Justin Draeger ) , the Joey Stivic character next appeared on the All in the Family spin-off series ( some call it a continuation of the original )  आर्ची बंकर 's प्लेस in a अतिथि रूप in the नवम्बर 1979 एपीसोड `` थैंक्सगिविंग पुनर्मिलन . ''
In this instance , the  अक्षर थी निभाई by  child actor Dick Billingsley and was appropriately pre-school age .
With Gloria now separated from Mike , she returned to Archie Bunker 's  प्लेस साथ जॉय in the फ़रवरी  1982 episode `` Gloria Comes Home . ''
In this episode , Joey was  निभाई  by Christopher Johnston .
Joey  stivic थी a नियमित  character on the All in the Family spin-off series Gloria in 1982 and 1983 .
On this series , in which the now-divorced Gloria Bunker character had moved to Upstate New  यॉर्क in अनुक्रम to कार्य as an सहायक veterinarian ,  the part of Joey Stivic was played by ten-year-old actor Christian Jacobs .
After Gloria was canceled in 1983 , Joey Stivic disappeared from prime time television for 11 years , until the character made one last appearance on 704 Hauser , a short-lived 1994 series about a black family who  था स्थानांतरित  into the old Bunker home , years after Bunker had sold it .
In this appearance , the Joey Stivic character was  निभाई by केसी siemaszko , an कर्ता  born in 1961 ( 14 years before Joey Stivic 's fictional birth ) .
In 1976 the Ideal Toy Company released a 14-inch `` Joey Stivic doll '' ( called `` Archie  बंकर 's पोता '' )  which was billed as the `` first anatomically correct male doll . ''
The doll  प्रेरित mild  controversy at the time , and is a collectors ' item today .
The 2011 Rose Bowl was the 97th edition of the annual bowl  खेल निभाई on जनवरी 1 , 2011  , as part of the 2010 college football season .
Played in Pasadena , California , the TCU Horned Frogs of the Mountain  वेस्ट सम्मेलन पराजित the  Wisconsin Badgers of the Big Ten Conference by a score of 21 – 19 .
The Pasadena Tournament of  गुलाब संघ  was the organizer of the game .
Vizio Inc. was the corporate sponsor and the game was officially named  `` the रोज़  Bowl Game presented by Vizio '' .
This game marked the first time a team  इससे a non-automatic qualifying सम्मेलन निभाई  in , and won , the Rose Bowl in its 97 years .
The contest was broadcast on cable television  स्टेशन ईएसपीएन साथ a रेडियो ब्रॉडकास्ट on ईएसपीएन रेडियो और  XM Satellite Radio and ESPN3 streaming video over the internet .
Coverage began at 1:30 PM ( PST ) with kickoff at   2:10 PM ( PST ) .
This marked the first time that the game was   not broadcast nationally `` over-the-air '' ( terrestrial television ) since the games prior to the 1952 Rose Bowl , which was the first nationally televised college football game .
The Rose Bowl Game , themed Building Dreams , Friendships , & Memories ,  थी a contractual sell-out  , with 64,500 tickets allocated to the participating teams and conferences .
Ticket prices for all seats in the  रोज़ कटोरी हैं सूचीबद्ध  at $ 145 .
The remaining tickets went to the  टूर्नामेंट of गुलाब सदस्यों  , sponsors , City of Pasadena residents , and the general public .
the रोज़ कटोरी  stadium capacity is listed at approximately 91,000 .
The Declaration of Independence is a statement adopted by the Continental Congress on July 4 , 1776 , which announced that the thirteen American colonies , then at war with Great Britain , regarded  themselves  as independent states , and no longer a part of the British Empire .
Instead they now formed a new nation—the United States  of अमेरिका  .
John Adams was a leader in pushing for independence ,  जिससे थी unanimously  approved on July 2 .
A committee had already drafted the formal declaration , to be ready when congress  voted on स्वतंत्रता  .
Adams persuaded the committee to select Thomas Jefferson to   compose the original draft of the document , which congress would edit to produce the final version .
The Declaration was ultimately a  औपचारिक स्पष्टीकरण of क्यों कॉंग्रेस था voted on जुलाई  2 to declare independence from Great Britain , more than a year after the outbreak of the American Revolutionary War .
The national birthday , the Independence Day is celebrated on July 4 ,  हालांकि  Adams wanted July 2 .
After ratifying the text on July 4 ,  कॉंग्रेस जारी  the Declaration of Independence in several forms .
It was initially published as  the मुद्रित डनलप  broadside that was widely distributed and read to the public .
The most famous version of the Declaration , a signed copy that is  popularly regarded as the घोषणा  of Independence , is displayed at the National Archives in Washington , D.C .
Although  the wording  of the Declaration was approved on July 4 , the date of its signing was August 2 .
The original  जुलाई 4 संयुक्त राज्य घोषणा  of Independence manuscript was lost while all other copies have been derived from this original document .
The sources  और निर्वचन of the घोषणा  have been the subject of much scholarly inquiry .
The  घोषणा जायज the स्वतंत्रता of the संयुक्त राज्य  by listing colonial grievances against King George III , and by asserting certain natural and legal rights , including a right of revolution .
Having served its original purpose in announcing independence , the text of the Declaration was initially  उपेक्षित बाद the अमरीकी क्रान्ति  .
Since then ,  it रै आइये  to be considered a major statement on human rights , particularly its second sentence:
We hold these truths to be self-evident  ,  that all men are created equal , that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights , that among these are Life , Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness .
This  रै महरूम पुकारा `` एक of the best-known  sentences in the English language '' , containing `` the most potent and consequential words in American history . ''
The  ड्योढ़ी आए to represent a moral मानक  to which the United States should strive .
This view was notably promoted by Abraham Lincoln , who considered the  Declaration to be  the foundation of his political philosophy , and argued that the Declaration is a statement of principles through which the United States Constitution should be interpreted .
It  रै प्रेरित  work for the rights of marginalized people throughout the world .
Chitty Chitty Bang Bang is a 1968 British  musical फिल्मी  loosely based on Ian Fleming 's novel .
The film 's script is by Roald Dahl and Ken Hughes and its  गीतों by the शरमन  Brothers .
It stars Dick Van Dyke as Caractacus Potts and  सैली ऐन howes as truly  Scrumptious .
The film was directed by Ken Hughes and produced  by Albert  R. Broccoli ( co-producer of the James Bond series of films , also based on Fleming 's novels ) .
जॉन stears  supervised the special effects .
Irwin Kostal supervised and conducted the music , while  the musical  numbers were staged by Marc Breaux and Dee Dee Wood .
A region is arid when it  is characterized by a कठोर कमी of उपलब्धियाँ जल  , to the extent of hindering or preventing the growth and development of plant and animal life .
environments विषय to arid climates  tend to lack vegetation and are called xeric or desertic .
Most `` arid ''  climates घेर the  equator ; these places include most of Africa and parts of South America and Central America .
Cancer ( ♋ ) is an astrological sign , which is associated  साथ  the constellation Cancer .
It spans the 90-120th degree of the zodiac , between 90 and 125.25 degree of celestial longitude , which the Sun transits  इस क्षेत्रफल on औसत  between June 22 to July 22 each year .
And under the sidereal zodiac , it is  फिलहाल  from July 21 to August 9 .
The United States presidential election of 1960 was the 44th quadrennial presidential election , held on Tuesday  ,  November 8 , 1960 .
The Republican Party nominated  लाज़िम  Vice-President Richard Nixon , while the Democratic Party nominated John F. Kennedy , Senator from Massachusetts .
The incumbent  अध्यक्ष , रिपब्लिकन ड्वाइट D.  Eisenhower , was not eligible for re-election after serving the maximum two terms allowed by the Twenty-second Amendment .
Kennedy was elected with a lead of 112,827 votes , or 0.17 % of the popular vote ,  giving उसे a विजय of 303  to 219 in the Electoral College , the closest since 1916 .
This was the first election in which all fifty of the current United  राज्य participated  .
A number of factors explain why the election was  so  close .
Kennedy  gained  since there was an economic recession which hurt the incumbent Republican , and he had the advantage of 17 million more registered Democrats than Republicans .
Furthermore , the new votes that Kennedy gained among  catholics लगभग neutralized the  new votes Nixon gained among Protestants .
Kennedy  's campaigning  skills decisively outmatched Nixon 's .
In the end , Nixon 's emphasis on his experience carried little weight , and he wasted energy by campaigning in all 50 states instead of  concentrating on the झूले राज्य  .
Kennedy used his large , well-funded campaign organization to win the  नामांकन  , secure endorsements , and , with the aid of the last of the big-city bosses , to get out the vote in the big cities .
He relied on running mate Lyndon B.  जॉनसन to थाम the दक्षिण और  used television effectively .
This election is notable as  होने the पहला समय in u.S. इतिहास  that two sitting U.S . Senators ( Kennedy and Johnson ) were elected as president and vice-president , a phenomenon that has been repeated once , by Barack Obama and Joe Biden in 2008 ( in both cases , the president was the younger , more junior senator ) .
Sherwood is a  नगर in वॉशिंगटन  County , Oregon , United States .
Located  in the southeast कोने of the काउंटी  , it is a residential community in the Tualatin Valley southwest of Portland .
The  जनसांख्यिकी  was 11,791 at the 2000 census .
According to the 2010 census , the population was  18,205  residents .
Indirectly named for the Sherwood Forest in England , it  थी पहला incorporated  in 1893 as a town .
The USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 is an Act of the U.S. Congress that was signed into law by President George W.  बुश on अक्तूबर  26 , 2001 .
The title of the act is a ten letter acronym ( USA PATRIOT ) that stands for Uniting ( and )  strengthening अमेरिका ( by ) providing उचित टूल्स जरूरी ( to ) इंटरफेस  ( and ) Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 .
The act , as a response to the terrorist attacks of September 11th , significantly reduced restrictions in law enforcement agencies ' gathering of intelligence within the United States ; expanded the Secretary of the Treasury’s authority to regulate financial transactions , particularly those involving foreign individuals and entities ; and broadened the discretion of law  enforcement and immigration  authorities in detaining and deporting immigrants suspected of terrorism-related acts .
The act also expanded the definition of  आतंक to शामिल घरेलू आतंक  , thus enlarging the number of activities to which the USA PATRIOT Act’s expanded law enforcement powers can be applied .
On May  26 , 2011 , अध्यक्ष बराक ओबामा प्रयुक्त an autopen to चिह्न the patriot sunsets एक्सटेंशन अधिनियम of 2011 , a four-year एक्सटेंशन of तीन कुंजी प्रावधानों in the यूएसए patriot अधिनियम जबकि he थी in फ़्रांस : roving wiretaps , खोज of कारोबार रिकॉर्ड ( the `` पुस्तकालयों रिकॉर्ड प्रावधान `` ) , और conducting निगरानी of `` लोन भेड़ियों '' — individuals suspected of terrorist-related क्रियाएँ नहीं linked to आतंकवादी समूह .
Republican leaders questioned if the use of the Autopen met the constitutional  आवश्यकताएँ लिये हस्ताक्षर a विधेयक into विधि  .
A house in Queen Anne style at  223 एवेन्यू  A .
Snohomish is a  नगर in snohomish काउंटी  , Washington , United States .
The population was  9,098 at  the 2010 census .
The mayor of Snohomish is Karen Guzak , and the City  मैनेजर is लैरी  Bauman .
Snohomish prides itself for its historical downtown , and was  once  known for its many antique shops when it was known as the `` Antique Capital of the Northwest . ''
The historic business and residential center of  the कस्बा constitutes the snohomish ऐतिहासिक  District , which is listed on the National Register of Historic Places .
Many houses bear plaques  साथ the साल  the house was built and the name of the family or individual who originally occupied it .
Once every year  , the नगर देता टुर of the  historic houses ; one of them , the Blackman House , is a year-round museum .
A general aviation airfield , Harvey Airfield , is less than one  मील दक्षिणपश्चिम of शहर  Snohomish .
Dave Matthews Band ( DMB ) is an American rock band that was formed  in charlottesville  , Virginia , United States , in 1991 .
The founding members were  singer-songwriter और guitarist डेव matthews  , bassist Stefan Lessard , drummer /backing vocalist Carter Beauford and saxophonist LeRoi Moore .
Boyd Tinsley was added  to the बैंड  as a violinist soon after the band was formed .
Moore died suddenly   in August 2008 due to complications from injuries sustained in an ATV accident .
GRAMMY Award -winner Jeff Coffin of Béla  fleck और the flecktones  has since filled Moore 's spot as the band 's saxophonist .
Rashawn Ross and Tim Reynolds have  भी become full-time  touring members of the band .
The band 's 2009 album Big Whiskey and the GrooGrux King ( the first album since Moore 's death ) debuted at number one on the Billboard 200 ,  कमाई the  band their fifth consecutive number-one debut— making them the second band behind Metallica to do so .
उनके सबसे हाल एल्बम  , Away from the World , was released in 2012 , and also debuted at number one on the Billboard chart .
As of 2010 , the Dave Matthews Band has sold  over 30 लाख  records worldwide .
The band is known for their annual summer-long tours of the United  States and  Europe , featuring lengthy improvisational renditions of their songs , accompanied by an elaborate video and lighting show .
This portion of the tour has become a stamp of DMB and has grown with the band since  fenton विलियम्स began  working with them in the early 1990s .
After twenty  लगातार सालो  of touring the band announced that it would take the summer of 2011 off .
Dave Matthews Band has won one GRAMMY Award , and was awarded the  naacp अध्यक्ष 's पुरस्कार  .
According to Julian Bond , `` they sell out the  largest arenas on धरती  , but frequently give their music away . ''
Transcendental Wild Oats : A  अध्याय इससे  an Unwritten Romance is a prose satire written by Louisa May Alcott , about her family 's involvement with the Transcendentalist community Fruitlands in the early 1840s .
The work was first published in a New York newspaper in 1873 ,  और reprinted in  1874 , 1876 , and 1915 and after .
In her account , Alcott provides the real people involved with thin pseudonymous  disguises  .
Her father Amos Bronson Alcott is `` Abel Lamb , '' while his partner and community  co-founder चार्ल्स लेन is `` timon शेर ;  '' Abigail May Alcott , Louisa 's mother and Bronson 's wife , is `` Sister Hope . ''
Alcott  depicts उसके पिता as वर्चस्व by उसके अधिक forceful संगी , और दोनो मेन as लापरवाह और अव्यवहारिक dreamers .
The men of the community spend their time in pointless debates while Sister Hope works from  भोर to संध्या  to maintain their existence .
A crisis arises at  कटाई  time , when the grain crop is threatened by an approaching storm .
In Alcott 's words , `` About the time the grain was ready to house , some call of the Oversoul  wafted सब the  men away . ''
Sister Hope organizes the only available help , three  छोटी लड़कियों और a  boy , and manages to save the crop .
The little community collapses as soon as  the मौसम  turns cold , when it becomes clear that their provisions are too meager to last the coming winter .
Timon Lion and his son abscond to join the Shakers — though Timon is unhappy to learn that life among them is  `` सब कार्य और  no play . ''
abel is कुचल by the विफलता  of the enterprise ; after days of despair he begins to eat again only when he realizes that his family needs him .
Sister Hope finds a way for them to  subsist  and persevere .
Alcott 's view of male arrogance and female exploitation in this piece is paralleled in   her novel , published in the same year as `` Transcendental Wild Oats . ''
``  अनुभवातीत  Wild Oats '' has been reprinted in several modern editions .
Mount of the Holy Cross is the northernmost 14,000-foot mountain in the  sawatch दायरा , भाग of the रॉकी kyu in कोलोराडो  .
It  is स्तिथ in  the Holy Cross Wilderness near the ghost town of Holy Cross City and in Eagle County .
It was named for the distinctive  cross-shaped  snowfield on the northeast face .
Under USDA Forest Service administration , the mountain was  proclaimed  `` Holy Cross National Monument '' by Herbert Hoover on May 11 , 1929 .
the स्मारक  was transferred to the National Park Service in 1933 .
In 1950 , it was returned to the Forest Service and lost its National Monument status—the number of visitors to the  पहाड़ और the आसपास `` pilgrim 's  Hut '' had waned , and the expense of full-time staff could not be justified .
This mountain has been the subject of painters , photographers and even a  कविता by हेनरी वाड्सवर्थ  Longfellow , ( The Cross of Snow ) .
The first publicly available photograph was published in  नेशनल भौगोलिक  magazine .
Thomas Moran depicted the mountain in an oil painting , which now is part of the collection of the Museum of the American West , part of the Autry National Center  in Los  Angeles , California .
It is still much photographed but it is not as well  ज्ञात आज as it  was in the past .
Nearby features include Bowl of Tears Lake , directly under the  ईस्ट फेस of the शिखर , tuhare झीलों , in a cirque  that lies south of a significant subpeak , and several other lakes .
Notable locations within include the  dotsero ज्वालामुखी ( निकट अंतरराज्यीय  70 ) , Vail and Aspen .
US 24 runs  निकट the  peak through Gilman .
Photochrom  छपाई of माउंट  of the Holy Cross c. 1900 .
This image is a reversed  दृश्य of the पहाड़  compared to how it actually appears .
The first recorded ascent of Holy Cross was in 1873 , by F. V. Hayden and photographer W. H. Jackson  दौरान एक of hayden 's भौगोलिक सर्वेक्षण  .
However , the peak may well have been ascended previously by miners or  अमरीकी  Indians .
The first winter ascent of the peak was made in 1943 by  russel keene  and Howard Freedman of the 10th Mountain Division , then stationed at Camp Hale .
Holy Cross can be climbed by at least four different routes , with the  easiest और सबसे आम रूट होने the उत्तर लकीरें  , which involves of vertical gain over and is rated YDS Class 2 for moderate scrambling .
The Cross Couloir route forms the vertical portion of the famous cross feature , and provides an  उन्नत हिम चढ़ाई or चरम  ski descent .
Mount of  the पावन क्रॉस  has a history of endangering the lives of many hikers .
primarily , the hikers जो आवश्यकता  rescue are unfamiliar with the risks of entering wilderness areas and do not bring adequate equipment and supplies to respond to emergency conditions .
Although the summit on Mount of the Holy Cross is frequently reached on a long day hike , unprepared hikers are frequently stranded or lost due to changing environmental conditions and confusion regarding the  surrounding लैंडस्केप , विशेषकर on the  descent of North Ridge .
thorough शोध और उचित नियोजन चाहिए prevent सबसे tragedies .
Mount of the Holy cross is accessible from Tigiwon Road , south of Minturn  , कोलोराडो  .
The Half Moon Pass Trail is the standard route  to the  summit of Mount of the Holy Cross via the North Ridge .
Following the Fall Creek Trail to an  ascent of पायदान पहाड़  Trail provides the best view of the Holy Cross snow feature from Notch Mountain Ridge .
The  जीएसएम लोगो  is used to identify compatible handsets and equipment
GSM ( Global System for Mobile Communications , originally ' ) , is a standard set developed by the  यूरोपीय  Telecommunications Standards Institute ( ETSI ) to describe protocols for second generation ( 2G ) digital cellular networks used by mobile phones .
It became  the de facto वैश्विक मानक  for mobile communications with over 80 % market share .
The GSM standard was developed as a replacement for first generation ( 1G ) analog cellular networks , and originally described a digital , circuit switched  संजाल अनुकूलित लिये पूरा duplex  voice telephony .
This was expanded over time to include data communications , first by circuit switched transport , then packet data transport via GPRS (  सामान्य पैकेट रेडियो सेवाएं ) और किनारे ( उन्नत  Data rates for GSM Evolution or EGPRS ) .
Further improvements were made when the 3GPP developed third generation ( 3G ) UMTS  मानकों followed by चौथी पीढी  ( 4G ) LTE Advanced standards .
`` GSM  '' is a ट्रेडमार्क  owned by the GSM Association .
President Franklin D. Roosevelt signs the Lend-Lease bill to give aid to Britain and China  (  1941 )
The Lend Lease act was an act where  the संयुक्त राज्य था समर्थित  its allies .
Lend-Lease ( ) was the law that started a program under which the United States of America supplied the United Kingdom , the USSR , Republic  of चीन , फ़्री फ़्रांस  , and other Allied nations with materiel between 1941 and 1945 .
It  थी हस्ताक्षरित into विधि on कूच  11 , 1941 , a year and a half after the outbreak of World War II in Europe in September 1939 .
This was nine months before the  u.S. डाला the  war in December 1941 .
Formally titled An Act to Further Promote the  रक्षा of the संयुक्त राज्य , the  Act effectively ended the United States ' pretense of neutrality .
A total of $ 50 .1 billion ( equivalent to $ today ) worth of supplies were shipped : $ 31.4 billion to Britain , $ 11.3 billion to the  सोवियत संघ , $ 3.2 अरब to फ़्रांस , $ 1.6 अरब to  China , and smaller sums to other Allies .
Reverse Lend-Lease comprised services such as  किराया on एयर bases कि गई to the u.S. , और  totaled $ 7.8 billion ; of this , $ 6.8 billion came from the British and the Commonwealth .
The terms of the agreement provided that the materiel was to be used  जबतक समय लिये उनके वापसी  or destruction .
आपूर्तियाँ बाद the termination  date were sold to Britain at a large discount for £1 .075 billion using long-term loans from the United States .
Canada operated a similar program that sent $ 4.7 billion  in supplies to the  United Kingdom and the Soviet Union .
The United States did not charge for aid supplied  अंतर्गत इस विधान  .
This program was a decisive step away from non-interventionist policy , which had  वर्चस्व संयुक्त राज्य विदेशी संबंध  since the end of World War I , towards international involvement .
The Jerusalem artichoke ( Helianthus tuberosus ) , also called  sunroot , sunchoke , धरती ठहराना or topinambour , is  a species of sunflower native to eastern North America , and found from eastern Canada and Maine west to North Dakota , and south to northern Florida and Texas .
It is also cultivated  widely  across the temperate zone for its tuber , which is used as a root vegetable .
Castillo San Felipe del Morro also known as Fort San Felipe del Morro or Morro Castle , is a 16th-century citadel  स्तिथ in सैन जुआन , प्यूर्टो रीको  .
Stonehenge is a  प्रागैतिहासिक  monument in Wiltshire , England , about west of Amesbury and north of Salisbury .
One of the most famous sites in the world , Stonehenge is the remains of a ring of standing  पत्थरों नियत भीतर  earthworks .
It is in the middle of the most dense complex of Neolithic and Bronze Age monuments in  इंग्लैण्ड , सहित अनेक  hundred burial mounds .
Archaeologists believe it was built anywhere from 3000 BC to  2000  BC .
Radiocarbon dating in 2008 suggested that the first stones were raised between  2400 और 2200 bc , whilst another सिद्धान्त suggests  that bluestones may have been raised at the site as early as 3000 BC .
The surrounding circular earth bank and ditch , which constitute the  earliest phase of the स्मारक , have महरूम दिनाँक to परिचय  3100 BC .
The site and  इसके परिवेश  were added to the UNESCO 's list of World Heritage Sites in 1986 in a co-listing with Avebury Henge .
It is a national legally protected  अनुसूचित  Ancient Monument .
Stonehenge is owned by the Crown and managed by English Heritage , while the  surrounding जमीन  is owned by the National Trust .
Archaeological evidence found by the  stonehenge riverside  Project in 2008 indicates that Stonehenge could have been a burial ground from its earliest beginnings .
The dating of cremated  remains मिला on the साईट indicate  that deposits contain human bone from as early as 3000 BC , when the ditch and bank were first dug .
Such deposits continued at Stonehenge for  at तनिक another  500 years .
The site is  a प्लेस  of religious significance and pilgrimage in Neo-Druidry .
The NCAA Women 's Division I Championship is an annual college  बास्केट  tournament for women .
Held   each April , the Women 's Championship was inaugurated in the 1981–82 season .
The NCAA tournament was preceded by the AIAW Women 's Basketball Tournament , which was held annually from 1972 to 1982  .
Basketball  थी एक of बारह महिलाओं 's खेल added to the ncaa चैंपियनशिप  program for the 1981-82 school year , as the NCAA engaged in battle with the Association for Intercollegiate Athletics for Women for sole governance of women 's collegiate sports .
The AIAW continued to conduct its established championship  कार्यक्रम in the वही बारह ( और अन्य ) खेल ; however  , after a year of dual women 's championships , the NCAA prevailed , while the AIAW disbanded .
Attendance and interest in the Women 's Division I Championship have grown over the years , especially since 2003 , when the final championship game was moved  to  the Tuesday following the Monday men 's championship game .
The women  's  championship game is now the final overall game of the college basketball season .
Before that , the Women 's Final Four was usually played on the Friday before the Men 's Final Four or the hours before  the मेन निभाई on the फाइनल  Saturday of the tournament .
The final was usually played the Sunday afternoon following the Men 's Final   Four .
The tournament bracket is made up of champions  इससे प्रत्येक प्रभाग i  conference , which receive automatic bids .
The remaining slots are at-large  बोलियों , साथ टीमों  chosen by an NCAA selection committee .
The selection process and tournament  seedings  are based on several factors , including team rankings , win-loss records and Ratings Percentage Index ( RPI ) data .
Unlike the men 's tournament , there are only 32 at-large bids ( as of the next  टूर्नामेंट in 2014 )  , and no play-in game .
The women 's  टूर्नामेंट , जैसे the  men 's , is staged in a single elimination format , and is part of the media and public frenzy known colloquially as March Madness or The Big Dance .
All 63 games  have महरूम ब्रॉडकास्ट on  television since 2003 on ESPN and ESPN2 .
Similar to the pre-2011 men 's tournament coverage on CBS , local teams are shown on each  चैनल जब उपलब्धियाँ , साथ  `` whip-around '' coverage designed to showcase the most competitive contests in the rest of the country .
The Rosetta  स्टोन in  the British Museum
The Rosetta  स्टोन is an प्राचीन  Egyptian granodiorite stele inscribed with a decree issued at Memphis in 196 BC on behalf of King Ptolemy V .
The decree appears in three scripts : the upper text is Ancient Egyptian  चित्रलिपि  , the middle portion Demotic script , and the lowest Ancient Greek .
Because it  presents  essentially the same text in all three scripts ( with some minor differences between them ) , it provided the key to the modern understanding of Egyptian hieroglyphs .
Originally displayed within a  टेम्पल , the स्टोन थी संभवतः स्थानांतरित दौरान the जल्दी  Christian or medieval period and eventually used as building material in the construction of Fort Julien near the town of Rashid ( Rosetta ) in the Nile Delta .
It was  rediscovered  there in 1799 by a soldier , Pierre-François Bouchard , of the French expedition to Egypt .
As the first Ancient Egyptian bilingual text recovered in modern times , the  rosetta स्टोन aroused फैली  public interest with its potential to decipher this hitherto untranslated ancient language .
Lithographic copies and plaster casts  began  circulating among European museums and scholars .
Meanwhile , British troops  पराजित the फ्रेंच  in Egypt in 1801 , and the original stone came into British possession under the Capitulation of Alexandria .
Transported to London , it has been on public  प्रदर्शक at the  British Museum since 1802 .
It is the most-visited object in the British  संग्रहालय  .
Ever since its rediscovery , the stone has been the focus of nationalist rivalries , including its transfer from French to British possession  दौरान the napoleonic युद्धों ,  a long-running dispute over the relative value of Young 's and Champollion 's contributions to the decipherment , and since 2003 , demands for the stone 's return to Egypt .
Study of the decree was already under way as the first full translation of the  यूनानी  text appeared in 1803 .
It was 20 years , however , before the transliteration of  the मिश्र स्क्रिप्ट थी घोषित by jean-françois  Champollion in Paris in 1822 ; it took longer still before scholars were able to read Ancient Egyptian inscriptions and literature confidently .
Major advances in the decoding were : recognition that the stone offered  तीन संस्करण of the वही टेक्स्ट ( 1799 ) ; कि the demotic टेक्स्ट प्रयुक्त ध्वन्यात्मक वर्ण to वर्तनी विदेशी names  ( 1802 ) ; that the hieroglyphic text did so as well , and had pervasive similarities to the demotic ( Thomas Young , 1814 ) ; and that , in addition to being used for foreign names , phonetic characters were also used to spell native Egyptian words ( Champollion , 1822–1824 ) .
Two other fragmentary copies of the same decree were discovered later , and several similar Egyptian bilingual or trilingual  inscriptions हैं अभी ज्ञात , सहित दो थोड़ा पहले ptolemaic डिक्री ( the डिक्री  of Canopus in 238 BC , and the Memphis decree of Ptolemy IV , ca . 218 BC ) .
The Rosetta Stone is therefore no longer unique , but it  थी the अनिवार्य  key to modern understanding of Ancient Egyptian literature and civilization .
The term Rosetta Stone is now used in other contexts as the name for the essential clue to a new  फ़ील्ड  of knowledge .
Poison dart frog ( also dart-poison frog , poison frog or formerly poison arrow  frog  ) is the common name of a group of frogs in the family Dendrobatidae which are native to Central and South America .
These species are diurnal and often have  brightly  colored bodies .
Although all wild dendrobatids are at least somewhat toxic , levels of toxicity vary considerably from one species to the next and  इससे एक जनसांख्यिकी  to another .
अनेक  species are threatened .
These  amphibians हैं प्रायः  called `` dart frogs '' due to the Amerindians ' indigenous use of their to poison the tips of blowdarts .
However , of over 175 species , only four have been documented as being used for this purpose ( curare plants are more commonly used ) , all of which come from the Phyllobates genus , which is characterized by the relatively  विशाल आकार और ऊँची स्तर  of toxicity of its members .
Cajeta is a Mexican confection of thickened syrup usually made of  sweetened  caramelised milk .
According to chef Rick Bayless , the name for cajeta came from the Spanish phrase al punto de cajeta ,  जिससे अर्थात् `` a द्रव thickened  to the point at which a spoon drawn through the liquid reveals the bottom of the pot in which it is being cooked '' .
another  hypothesis is that it takes its name from the small wooden boxes in which it was traditionally packed .
Mexican cajeta is considered a specialty of the city of Celaya in the state of Guanajuato , although it is also produced with the traditional method in several towns of the state of  jalisco , ऐसे  as Mazamitla , Sayula , and Atotonilco el Alto .
Cajeta is made by simmering goat 's milk , or occasionally a sweetened liquid , stirring frequently , until it  becomes बहुत viscous due to वाष्पीकरण of जल  , and caramelized .
While goat milk is the most usual base , other  liquids  or juices may be used .
In Celaya , and eventually the rest of Mexico ,  the confection  of half goat 's milk and half cow 's milk became known by the name cajeta , but elsewhere , the milk candy became known as leche quemada , dulce de leche , etc .
It has cousins in  the अनेक भारतीय milk-based मिठाई जैसे प्रभा  and the milk fudge burfi , and in the opera fudge of the U.S. Cajeta is eaten on its own as a sweet , as a spread or filling for breads and pastries , such as churros , and as a topping for ice cream .
Certain liquors are added to special recipes  पुकारा cajeta  envinada .
In addition , cajeta envinada  especial  is enriched with raisins , almonds , pecans or nuts .
Often it is used as a topping for  crêpes , as a मीठी  sauce boiled and softened down with milk to soak the crepes , resulting in a tasty dessert .
In Mexico many brands make cajeta  लकिन the सबसे आम  brand is Coronado .
It is also very common to place cajeta between obleas to make a  परंपरागत मैक्सिकन  dessert .
Prince William , Duke of Cambridge ( William Arthur Philip Louis ; born  21 जून 1982 ) , is the elder बेटे of चार्ल्स , प्रिंस  of Wales , and Diana , Princess of Wales , and third-eldest grandchild of Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip , Duke of Edinburgh .
He is second in the line of succession , behind his father , to the thrones of sixteen independent sovereign states known as the  राष्ट्रमंडल  realms : the United Kingdom , Canada , Australia , New Zealand , Jamaica , Barbados , The Bahamas , Grenada , Papua New Guinea , the Solomon Islands , Tuvalu , Saint Lucia , Saint Vincent and the Grenadines , Belize , Antigua and Barbuda , and Saint Kitts and Nevis .
Prince William was educated  at चार  schools in the United Kingdom and obtained a degree from the University of St Andrews .
He spent parts of a gap year in Chile , Belize , Tanzania , and Kenya where  he  has lived and holidayed several times .
Prince William has also taken Kiswahili studies at  विश्वविद्यालयों in कीनिया और तंजानिया  .
He was commissioned as a Lieutenant in the Blues and Royals Regiment of the Household Cavalry —serving with his brother Prince  हैरी —and ,  two years later , earned his wings by completing pilot training at Royal Air Force College Cranwell .
In 2009 , he transferred to the Royal  एयर फ़ोर्स , थी प्रचारित to  Flight Lieutenant and underwent helicopter flying training in order to become a full-time pilot with the Search and Rescue Force .
In 2010 , he completed his general and special-to-type helicopter training  और गई  on to RAF Valley on No . 22 Squadron performing co-pilot duties on board a Sea King search and rescue helicopter .
Prince William married his longtime  गर्लफ्रेंड ,  Catherine Middleton , on 29 April 2011 at Westminster Abbey .
Hours  prior to उसके विवाह  , Prince William was created Duke of Cambridge , Earl of Strathearn , and Baron Carrickfergus .
माली  is a multilingual country .
The languages spoken there reflect ancient settlement patterns , migrations , and its  long इतिहास  .
ऍथनोलॉग रिश्तो 50 भाषाएं .
Of  ये , फ्रेंच is the आधिकारिक भाषा और bambara is the सबसे widely बोला .
Altogether 13 of the  स्वदेशी भाषाएं  of Mali have the legal status of national language .
Sign in French , at a monument  in बमाको  .
{ { Infobox  अवकाश
Chinese New  साल
9 – 12 February (  वियतनाम )
Rogers Building  , the मुख्यालय  of Rogers Communications
Rogers Communications Inc. is a diversified public Canadian  संचार और मीडिया कम्पनी  .
It is particularly in the field of wireless  संचार  , cable television , telephone , and Internet connectivity with significant additional telecommunications and mass media assets .
The company is headquartered in  the रोजर्स  Building in Toronto , Ontario .
The company claims the heritage of the Rogers Vacuum Tube  कम्पनी , संस्थापित  in 1925 by Edward Rogers , which started the CFRB radio station in Toronto , which was later acquired by outside interests .
The present enterprise dates to  1960 , जब रोजर्स ' बेटे ,  Ted Rogers , founded Rogers Radio Broadcasting Ltd .
That company acquired CHFI that year , as well as  aldred-rogers प्रसारण , a साझेदारी साथ जोएल  Aldred which helped launch CFTO in 1961 .
Rogers later bought out Aldred and started the current cable  और बेतार परिचालन  , known as Rogers Cablesystems Ltd .
The chief competitor to the company is  घंटी कनाडा , जिससे रै a similarly extensive पोर्टफोलियो of  radio and television media assets , as well as wireless , television distribution , and telephone services , particularly in Eastern and Central Canada ; the two companies are often seen as having a duopoly on communications services in their regions .
However , the company also competes  nationally साथ telus लिये बेतार सेवाएं  , and primarily indirectly with Shaw Communications for television service .
The company also competes with a number of other media companies in  the प्रसारण  industry .
The Internet is a global system of  interconnected कंप्यूटर संजाल  that use the standard Internet protocol suite ( TCP/IP ) to serve billions of users worldwide .
It is a network of networks that consists of millions of private ,  पब्लिक , अकादमिक , कारोबार , और सरकारी  networks , of local to global scope , that are linked by a broad array of electronic , wireless and optical networking technologies .
The  अंतरजाल carries an extensive दायरा of सूचना संसाधन और सेवाएं , ऐसे as the inter-linked हाइपरटेक्स्ट दस्तावेज़ of the संसार चौड़ी वेब ( www ) और the अवसंरचना to support ईमेल .
Most traditional communications media including telephone , music , film , and television are being   reshaped or redefined by the Internet , giving birth to new services such as voice over Internet Protocol ( VoIP ) and Internet Protocol television ( IPTV ) .
Newspaper , book and other print publishing are adapting to Web site technology ,  or हैं reshaped  into blogging and web feeds .
The Internet has enabled and accelerated new forms of human interactions through instant  messaging , अंतरजाल forums  , and social networking .
Online shopping has boomed both for major retail outlets  और छोटी  artisans and traders .
Business-to-business and financial services on the Internet affect  सप्लाई जंजीरों आरपार  entire industries .
The origins of the Internet  पहुँचें वापस to शोध  commissioned by the United States government in the 1960s to build robust , fault-tolerant communication via computer networks .
The funding of a new U.S. backbone by the National Science Foundation in the 1980s , as well   as private funding for other commercial backbones , led to worldwide participation in the development of new networking technologies , and the merger of many networks .
The commercialization of what was by the 1990s an international network resulted in its  popularization  and incorporation into virtually every aspect of modern human life .
, more than 2.4 billion people—over a third of the world 's human population —have used the services of the Internet ;  लगभग 100 टाइम्स अधिक लोगों than यहूद using it in 1995 , जब it थी ज़्यादातर प्रयुक्त  by tech-savvy middle and upper class people in the United States and several other countries .
The Internet has no centralized governance in either technological implementation or policies for access  और उपयोग  ; each constituent network sets its own policies .
Only the  overreaching परिभाषाएं of the दो प्रिंसिपल नाम स्पेसेस  in the Internet , the Internet Protocol address space and the Domain Name System , are directed by a maintainer organization , the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers ( ICANN ) .
The technical underpinning and standardization of the core  प्रोटोकॉल ( ipv4  and IPv6 ) is an activity of the Internet Engineering Task Force ( IETF ) , a non-profit organization of loosely affiliated international participants that anyone may associate with by contributing technical expertise .
The 2006 Winter Olympics , officially known as the XX  ओलम्पिक शीत खेल , थी  a winter multi-sport event which was celebrated in Turin , Italy from February 10 , 2006 , through February 26 , 2006 .
This marked the second time Italy hosted  the ओलम्पिक शीत  Games , the first being the VII Olympic Winter Games in Cortina d'Ampezzo in 1956 .
Italy also hosted the Games of  the xvii  Olympiad in Rome in 1960 .
टोरीनो  was selected as the host city for the 2006 games in 1999 .
The official logo displayed the name `` Torino '' , the Italian name of the city ; the  नगर is ज्ञात as ``  Turin '' in both English and the local traditional language , Piedmontese .
The Olympic mascots of Torino 2006 were Neve ( `` snow '' in  इतालवी ) , a मादा  snowball , and Gliz , a male ice cube .
The official motto of the XX Olympic Winter  खेल  was `` Passion lives here '' .
`` Help ! '' is a song by the Beatles that served as the title song for both the  1965  film and its soundtrack album .
It was also  released as a  single , and was number one for three weeks in both the United States and the United Kingdom .
`` Help ! '' was written primarily by John Lennon , but  credited to lennon–mccartney  .
During an interview with Playboy in  1984 , पॉल  McCartney stated that the title was `` out of desperation '' .
पोस्टर  for the 2005 exhibition
Siegfried Bing ( 26 February 1838 – 6  सितंबर  1905 ) , who usually gave his name as S. Bing , and was thus often referenced erroneously as `` Samuel Bing '' ( Samuel Otto Bing , 1850–1905 , was his brother ) was a German art dealer who lived in Paris as an adult , and who helped introduce Japanese art and artworks to the West and was a factor in the development of the Art Nouveau style during the late nineteenth century .
Comparison of male  और मादा जीवन  expectancy at birth for countries and territories as defined in the 2011 CIA Factbook , with selected bubbles labelled .
The dotted line corresponds  to बराबर मादा  and male life expectancy .
The apparent  3d आयतन  of the bubbles are linearly proportional to their population .
This is a  सूची of देशों  by life expectancy at birth .
Kennewick is a city in Benton County in the southeastern part of the U.S.  राज्य of वॉशिंगटन  , near the Hanford nuclear site .
It is the most populous of the three cities collectively referred to as the  tri-cities ( the अन्य होने  Pasco and Richland ) .
Kennewick is located along the southwest bank of the Columbia River , opposite Pasco and just south of the  संगम of  the Columbia and Yakima rivers .
The  जनसांख्यिकी  was 73,917 at the 2010 census .
April 1 , 2012 estimates from the Washington  राज्य दफ्तर  of Financial Management put the city 's population at 75,160 .
The nearest commercial airport is the Tri-Cities  विमानक्षेत्र  in Pasco , a regional commercial and private airport .
Forbes  पत्रिका नामित kennewick the #  2 area in the United States for job growth , while nearby Yakima was named # 1 .
The article cites the number of scientists employed by the Pacific Northwest  नेशनल प्रयोगशाला  and area farmland for this outlook .
The prothrombin time ( PT ) and its derived measures of prothrombin ratio ( PR ) and international normalized ratio ( INR ) are measures of the  extrinsic pathway of जामन  .
This test  is भी पुकारा  `` ProTime INR '' and `` PT/INR '' .
They are used to determine  the clotting tendency  of blood , in the measure of warfarin dosage , liver damage , and vitamin K status .
PT  उपायों कारकों i (  fibrinogen ) , II ( prothrombin ) , V , VII , and X .
It is used in conjunction with the activated partial thromboplastin time (  aptt ) जिससे उपायों  the intrinsic pathway .
`` I 'm in the Mood for Love  '' is a लोकप्रिय  song .
The music was  लिखा by  Jimmy McHugh , the lyrics by Dorothy Fields .
The  सोंग  was published in 1935 .
It was introduced by Frances Langford in the  फिल्म प्रत्येक रात्रि at  Eight released that year .
The song was featured in the 1936 Our Gang ( Little Rascals ) short , The Pinch Singer , sung by Carl `` Alfalfa '' Switzer , and in the 1936 film Palm Springs   .
It is often known to be Switzer 's  हस्ताक्षर  song .
James Moody 's saxophone solo on a 1952 recording of this song inspired the  सोंग `` मूडी  's Mood for Love `` .
Hip hop artist Prince Paul sampled the song   as the basis for the track `` Mood for Love '' on his album A Prince Among Thieves ( 1999 ) , with Don Newkirk singing its original lyrics .
The song 's  शीर्षक प्रेरित  the English title of Wong Kar Wai 's movie In the Mood for Love .
Cross-cultural psychology is the scientific study of human behavior and mental processes , including both their variability and invariance , under  विविध सांस्कृतिक शर्तें  .
Through expanding research methodologies to recognize cultural variance in  बर्ताव  , language , and meaning it seeks to extend and develop psychology .
चूंकि मनोविज्ञान as an अकादमिक अनुशासन थी विकसित largely in  North America , some psychologists became concerned that constructs accepted as universal were not as invariant as previously assumed , especially since many attempts to replicate notable experiments in other cultures had varying success .
Since there are questions as to whether theories dealing with central themes , such as affect , cognition , conceptions of the self , and  मुद्दे ऐसे as psychopathology , चिंता  , and depression , may lack external validity when `` exported '' to other cultural contexts , cross-cultural psychology re-examines them using methodologies designed to factor in cultural differences so as to account for cultural variance .
Although some critics have pointed to methodological flaws in cross-cultural psychological research and claim that serious shortcomings in the theoretical and methodological bases used impede rather than help the scientific search for universal principles in psychology , cross-cultural psychologists are turning more to the study of how differences ( variance ) occur , rather than searching for  universals in  the style of physics or chemistry .
In 1972 the International Association of  cross-cultural मनोविज्ञान  ( IACCP ) was established .
This branch  of मनोविज्ञान रै जारी to विस्तार as वहीँ  has been an increasing popularity of incorporating culture and diversity into studies .
cross-cultural मनोविज्ञान is differentiated इससे सांस्कृतिक मनोविज्ञान .
The latter is the branch of  मनोविज्ञान कि holds कि इंसान बर्ताव is significantly बहकावे  by cultural differences , meaning that psychological phenomena can only be compared with each other across cultures to a very limited extent .
In contrast , cross-cultural psychology includes a  ढूंढें लिये  possible universals in behavior and mental processes .
Walter J. Lonner , writing for Eye on Psi Chi , has stated that `` cross-cultural psychology can be thought of as a type  research methodology , rather than an  entirely separate field within psychology ( 2000 ) . ''
`` Judas '' is a song by American recording artist Lady  गागा , इससे उसके  second studio album Born This Way ( 2011 ) .
It was released by Interscope Records on April 15 ,  2011 , चार  days ahead of its scheduled release .
Written and  उत्पादित by महिला गागा  and RedOne , `` Judas '' is a dance and electro house song about a woman in love with a man who betrayed her .
It embodies the incidents  कि have haunted  Gaga in the past , and its core meaning refers to the negative parts of her life that she ca n't escape .
Gaga has further explained that the song was also about honoring one 's inner  अंधेरा in अनुक्रम to लाओ  oneself into the light .
The artwork for the single was  designed by गागा  in Microsoft Word .
In spite of a polarizing impact on several religious groups , the song was generally well received by  आलोचकों , जो likened the सोंग to `` ख़राब रोमांस  `` with some noting it should have been the album 's lead single .
The song  रै a समान ध्वनि  to Gaga 's previous RedOne-produced tracks , including `` Poker Face `` , `` LoveGame `` , `` Bad Romance '' , and `` Alejandro `` .
It contains three distinct hooks and  a हाउस -influenced  break down .
Gaga explained that the lines spoken during the breakdown talk about her as beyond redemption , regarding the   traditional views of what a woman should be .
`` Judas '' initially had a strong sales opening , but was  कम कामयाब  commercially in comparison to Gaga 's previous singles .
The song  पहुँचे the शीर्ष टेन  of the charts in most major music markets , and also reached the top of the charts in South Korea .
a म्यूज़िक वीडियो लिये the  song was filmed in April 2011 , co-directed by Gaga and Laurieann Gibson and co-starring Norman Reedus .
It has a Biblical storyline where Reedus   played Judas Iscariot and Gaga played Mary Magdalene .
The video portrays them as modern  दिन प्रचारकों  going to Jerusalem .
It included the Biblical story of Judas  betraying यीशु ,  and ended with Gaga as Magdalene getting stoned to death .
Before its release , the Catholic League condemned Gaga for the alleged use of  धार्मिक imagery और उसके  role in the video .
However , critics generally praised the video , not finding  कोई  offensive content .
The video was nominated for two awards at the 2011 MTV Video Music   Awards .
Gaga has performed `` Judas '' on a number of television shows , including The Graham Norton Show  , शनिवार रात्रि सजीव , शुभ morning americas  `` Summer Concert Series '' , the French X Factor as well as on The Ellen DeGeneres Show .
H.264/MPEG-4 Part 10 or AVC ( Advanced Video Coding ) is a standard for  वीडियो संपीडन , और is फिलहाल एक  of the most commonly used formats for the recording , compression , and distribution of high definition video .
The final   drafting work on the first version of the standard was completed in May 2003 .
H.264/MPEG-4  avc is a block-oriented motion-compensation  -based codec standard developed by the ITU-T Video Coding Experts Group ( VCEG ) together with the ISO/IEC JTC1 Moving Picture Experts Group ( MPEG ) .
The   project partnership effort is known as the Joint Video Team ( JVT ) .
The ITU-T H.264 standard and the ISO/IEC MPEG-4 AVC standard ( formally , ISO/IEC 14496-10 – MPEG-4 Part 10 , Advanced Video Coding ) are jointly maintained so that  they have  identical technical content .
H.264 is perhaps best known as being one of the  कोडेक मानकों  for Blu-ray Discs ; all Blu-ray Disc players must be able to decode H.264 .
It is also widely used by streaming internet sources , such as videos from Vimeo , YouTube , and the iTunes Store , web software such as the Adobe Flash Player and Microsoft Silverlight  , और  also various HDTV broadcasts over terrestrial ( ATSC , ISDB-T , DVB-T or DVB-T2 ) , cable ( DVB-C ) and satellite ( DVB-S and DVB-S2 ) .
Non-binding arbitration is a type of arbitration in which the arbitrator makes a determination of the rights of the parties to the dispute , but this determination is   not binding upon them , and no enforceable arbitration award is issued .
The `` award '' is  in प्रभाव an सलाहकार  opinion of the arbitrator 's view of the respective merits of the parties cases .
Non-binding arbitration is used in connection with attempts to  पहुँचें a negotiated उपनिवेश  .
The  भूमिका of an arbitrator  in non-binding arbitration is , on the surface , similar to that of a mediator in a mediation .
However , the principal distinction is that whereas a mediator will try to help the parties find a middle ground to compromise at , the arbitrator remains totally removed from the settlement process and will only give a determination of liability and  , if उचित , an indication of the क्वांटम of क्षतिपूर्ति  payable .
Subsequent to a non-binding arbitration , the  पार्टियों remain  free to pursue their claims either through the courts , or by way of a binding arbitration , although in practice a settlement is the most common outcome .
The award and reasoning in a non-binding arbitration is almost invariably inadmissible in any  subsequent कार्रवाई  in the courts or in another arbitration tribunal .
Non-binding arbitration is utilised mostly  in the संयुक्त  States and Canada .
It is largely unknown in Europe , although in the United Kingdom there is a practice of parties who are  seeking a उपनिवेश to jointly instruct a महारानी 's counsel लिये an राय on the merits और  likely quantum of a claim , and then to negotiate on the basis of the views expressed in that opinion .
Augustine Volcano is a Lava Dome Complex on Augustine Island in southwestern Cook Inlet in the Kenai Peninsula Borough of southcentral  तटीय अलास्का , दक्षिणपश्चिम  of Anchorage .
The Alaska Volcano Observatory currently rates Mount Augustine as Level of Concern Color Code Green for aviation and the Volcano  चेतावनी स्तर is  at Normal .
Augustine Island has a land area of , while West Island  , just  off Augustine 's western shores , has .
The island is made up mainly   of past eruption deposits .
Scientists have been able to  discern कि  past dome collapse has resulted in large avalanches .
A map of  बेलीज़  .
The country of Belize has roughly 386 km of coastline ,  और रै अनेक मूँगा  reefs , cays , and islands in the Caribbean Sea .
Most of  ये  form the Belize Barrier Reef , the longest in the western hemisphere stemming approximately .
The reef and its islands have been a UNESCO  संसार विरासत  Site since 1996 .
The following is a list of oceanic  आइलैंड्स of बेलीज़ , arranged  according to region but all of which are in the Caribbean Sea .
Most of the islands variate in spelling between `` cay '' and `` caye '' ,  और भी उपयोग the स्पेनी  `` cayo '' .
River islands have not  महरूम  listed .
Drive Letter Access ( DLA ) is a discontinued  वाणिज्यिक पैकेट लिखने अनुप्रयोग लिये the microsoft  Windows operating system that allows optical disc data storage devices to be used in a manner similar to floppy disks .
DLA is a packet writing technology for CD and DVD media   that uses the UDF file system .
DLA is not compatible with Windows  विस्टा और नए , हालांकि a पैच  exists to fix this issue under Windows Vista .
Roxio Burn was  introduced on अप्रैल  30 , 2009 .
As a  बदलना लिये dla ,  it remedies compatibility issues Internet Explorer 8 .
Alpha Rex Emmanuel Humbard ( August 13 , 1919 – September 21 , 2007 ) was a well-known American television evangelist whose Cathedral of Tomorrow show was  दिखाया on over 600 स्टेशन  at the peak of its popularity .
Limitless is a 2011  अमरीकी थ्रिलर फिल्मी निर्देशित  by Neil Burger and starring Bradley Cooper , Abbie Cornish , and Robert De Niro .
It is based on the 2001 novel The Dark Fields by Alan Glynn with the screenplay by Leslie   Dixon .
Alaska ( ) is a state in the United States , situated in the northwest extremity of the North American continent , with the international boundary with Canada to the east , the Arctic  समंदर to the उत्तर , और the प्रशांत  Ocean to the west and south , with Russia further west across the Bering Strait .
Alaska is the largest state in the United States by area , the 4th least populous and the  तनिक densely आबादी of the 50 संयुक्त  States .
Approximately half of Alaska 's 731,449 residents  सजीव  within the Anchorage metropolitan area .
Alaska 's economy is dominated by the oil , natural gas , and fishing  उद्योग ; it रै  these resources in abundance .
Alaska was  खरीदा इससे रूस on कूच 30 , 1867  , for $ 7.2 million ( $ adjusted for inflation ) at approximately two cents per acre ( $ 4.74/km2 ) .
The land went through  अनेक प्रशासनिक  changes before becoming an organized ( or incorporated ) territory on May 11 , 1912 , and the 49th state of the U.S. on January 3 , 1959 .
The name `` Alaska '' ( Аляска ) was already introduced in the  रूसी औपनिवेशिक काल , जब it थी प्रयुक्त तभी लिये the प्रायद्वीप और  is derived from the Aleut alaxsxaq , meaning `` the mainland '' or , more literally , `` the object towards which the action of the sea is directed '' .
It is also known as Alyeska , the `` great  जमीन '' ,  an Aleut word derived from the same root .
Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University ( NMMU )  is a दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी  tertiary education institution with its main administration in the coastal city of Port Elizabeth .
A merging of three institutions founded NMMU in January 2005  लकिन इसके  history dates back to 1882 with the foundation of Port Elizabeth Art School .
the  University draws international students from all over the world .
There are over 3000 international students and include students from the United States , France , China , Germany , Belgium , Denmark ,  फिनलैंड , नीदरलैंड्स , नार्वे , स्वीडन ,  United Kingdom and many other countries .
NMMU is a comprehensive university offering professional  और वोकेशनल  training .
The University has six campuses - five in Port Elizabeth  और एक  in George .
the प्रमुख कैम्पस  is the South Campus .
Students at NMMU can study towards diplomas and degrees  up to और  including doctoral level qualifications .
A number of courses include workplace   experience as part of the curriculum .
CoverGirl is an American cosmetics brand founded in Maryland , by the Noxzema Chemical Company ( later called Noxell ) and  acquired  by Procter & Gamble in 1989 .
The Noxell Company advertised this cosmetics line by allowing `` cover girls  '' , फ़ैशन मॉडल जो  appear on the front cover of women 's magazines , to wear its products .
CoverGirl makes up for lack of direct individual customer  सेवा by providing a चौड़ी किस्में  of cosmetics available at reasonable prices .
On the Origin of Species , published on 24 November 1859 , is a work of  वैज्ञानिक साहित्य by चार्ल्स  Darwin which is considered to be the foundation of evolutionary biology .
Its full title was On the Origin of Species  by अर्थात् of प्राकृतिक चयन  , or the Preservation of Favoured Races in the Struggle for Life .
लिये the छठे संस्करण of 1872 , the छोटी शीर्षक थी बदला to the उत्पत्ति of प्रजाति  .
Darwin 's book introduced the scientific theory that  populations evolve over the कोर्स of पीढियां  through a process of natural selection .
It presented a body of evidence that the diversity of life  arose by  common descent through a branching pattern of evolution .
Darwin included evidence that he had gathered on the Beagle expedition in the 1830s  और उसके subsequent निष्कर्षों  from research , correspondence , and experimentation .
विभिन्न विकासवादी  ideas had already been proposed to explain new findings in biology .
There was growing support for such ideas among dissident anatomists  and the general  public , but during the first half of the 19th century the English scientific establishment was closely tied to the Church of England , while science was part of natural theology .
Ideas about the transmutation of species were controversial as they conflicted with the beliefs that  प्रजाति यहूद अपरिवर्तनशील भाग of a designed  hierarchy and that humans were unique , unrelated to other animals .
The  राजनैतिक और theological  implications were intensely debated , but transmutation was not accepted by the scientific mainstream .
The book was written for non-specialist readers and  आकर्षित फैली ब्याज  upon its publication .
As Darwin was an eminent scientist , his findings were taken seriously and the evidence he   presented generated scientific , philosophical , and religious discussion .
The debate over the book contributed to the campaign by T.H . Huxley and his fellow  members of the X  Club to secularise science by promoting scientific naturalism .
Within two decades there was widespread scientific  अनुबंध कि एवोल्यूशन , साथ a branching पैटर्न of  common descent , had occurred , but scientists were slow to give natural selection the significance that Darwin thought appropriate .
During the `` eclipse of Darwinism `` from  the 1880s  to the 1930s , various other mechanisms of evolution were given more credit .
With the development of the modern evolutionary synthesis in the 1930s and 1940s , Darwin 's concept of evolutionary adaptation through natural selection became central to modern evolutionary   theory , now the unifying concept of the life sciences .
Charles Dillon `` Casey '' Stengel ( ; July 30 , 1890 – September 29 , 1975 ) , nicknamed ``  the बूढ़ा perfessor  '' , was an American Major League Baseball outfielder and manager .
He was elected to the  बेसबॉल  Hall of Fame in .
Stengel was born in Kansas City , Missouri , and originally nicknamed `` Dutch '' , a common nickname at that time  लिये अमेरिकी of जर्मनी ancestry  .
After his major league career began , he acquired  the उपनाम `` केसी '' , जिससे originally  came from the initials of his hometown ( `` K. C. '' ) , which evolved into `` Casey '' , influenced by the wide popularity of the poem Casey at the Bat .
In the 1950s , sportswriters dubbed him with yet another nickname , `` The Old Professor '' ( or `` Perfessor '' ) , for his sharp wit and his ability to talk at length on  anything बेसबॉल  -related .
Although his baseball career spanned a number of teams and cities , he is  primarily संबद्ध  with clubs in New York City .
Between playing and managing , he is the only man  to have  worn four of New York 's major league clubs ' uniforms .
He was the  पहला of चार मेन ( through  the season ) to manage both the New York Yankees and New York Mets ; Yogi Berra , Dallas Green , and Joe Torre are the others .
Like Torre , he also managed the Braves and  the  Dodgers .
He ended his baseball career as the beloved  मैनेजर लिये the  then expansion New York Mets , which won over the hearts of New York partly due to the unique character of their veteran leader .
June ( ) is the sixth month of the year in the Julian and Gregorian calendars and one of the four months  साथ a लंबाई of 30 दिनों  .
Ovid provides two etymologies for June 's name in his poem concerning the months entitled  the fasti  .
The first is that the month is named after the Roman goddess Juno , wife of Jupiter and equivalent to the Greek goddess Hera ; the second is that the name comes from the Latin word iuniores , meaning `` younger ones , '' as opposed to maiores ( `` elders '' ) for which the preceding  माह may may be नामित ( fasti vi.1–88 )  .
See : Months in various calendars also called the season of the June is the month with the  longest daylight घंटों of  the year in the Northern Hemisphere and the shortest daylight hours of the year in the Southern Hemisphere .
June in the Northern  गोलार्ध is the मौसमी  equivalent to December in the Southern Hemisphere and vice versa .
In the Northern hemisphere , the beginning of the meteorological summer is  1 जून  .
In the Southern hemisphere , the  शुरूआत of  the meteorological winter is 1 June .
At the start of June , the sun rises in the constellation of Taurus ; at the end of June , the sun rises  in the नक्षत्र of मिथुन  .
However , due to the precession of  the equinoxes  , June begins with the sun in the astrological sign of Gemini , and ends with the sun in the astrological sign of Cancer .
June is known for the large number of marriages   that occur over the course of the month .
According to one etymology , June is  नामित बाद juno (  Hera ) .
Juno was the goddess of marriage and a married couple 's household , so some  consider it शुभ लक  to be married in this month .
According to another etymology provided by the Roman poet Ovid , June is named for the iuniores , latin for `` young people '' ( Fasti   VI.88 ) and that the month of May is named for the maiores , Latin for `` elders '' .
In Iceland  , लोकगीत says कि if तुम bathe  naked in the morning dew on the morning of June 24 , you are supposed to keep aging at bay for longer .
A constitution is a set  of आधारभूत  principles or established precedents according to which a state or other organization is governed .
These rules together make up  , i.e . constitute  , what the entity is .
जब ये सिद्धान्त हैं लिखा bas into a सिंगल दस्तावेज़ or नियत of विधिक दस्तावेज़ , those दस्तावेज़ may be कहा to embody a लिखा संविधान ; if वे हैं लिखा bas in a सिंगल व्यापक दस्तावेज़ , it is कहा to embody a संहिताबद्ध संविधान .
Constitutions concern different levels of  संगठन  , from sovereign states to companies and unincorporated associations .
A treaty which establishes an international organization is  भी इसके संविधान , in कि it  would define how that organization is constituted .
Within states , whether sovereign or federated , a constitution defines the principles upon which the state is based , the  कार्यविधि in  which laws are made and by whom .
Some constitutions , especially codified constitutions , also act as limiters of state power , by establishing lines which a state  's शासकों can नहीं क्रॉस , ऐसे  as fundamental rights .
George Washington  at संवैधानिक  Convention of 1787 , signing of U.S. Constitution .
The Constitution of India is the longest written constitution of any sovereign country in the world , containing 448 articles , 12 schedules and 100 amendments , with 117,369 words in its English language version , while  the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान is the shortest लिखा संविधान ,  at 7 articles and 27 amendments .
Ron Diftler ( left ) , NASA Robonaut manager assisting in a Robonaut familiarization training session in the Space  पर्यावरण सिमुलेशन  Laboratory at NASA 's Johnson Space Center .
Engineering management is a  specialized रूप of प्रबन्धन कि  is concerned with the application of engineering principles to business practice .
Engineering  प्रबन्धन is a करियर कि brings साथ the technological  problem-solving savvy of engineering and the organizational , administrative , and planning abilities of management in order to oversee complex enterprises from conception to completion .
उदाहरण क्षेत्रों of अभियान्त्रिकी हैं उत्पाद विकास , निर्माण , निर्माण , डिज़ाइन अभियान्त्रिकी , औद्योगिक अभियान्त्रिकी , प्रौद्योगिकी , उत्पादन , or कोई अन्य फ़ील्ड कि employs कर्मियों जो perform an अभियान्त्रिकी फलन  .
कामयाब अभियान्त्रिकी  managers typically require training and experience in business and engineering .
Technically inept managers tend to be deprived of support by their  तकनीकी टोली , और non-commercial प्रबंधक tend  to lack commercial acumen to deliver in a market economy .
Largely , engineering  प्रबंधक मैनेज इंजीनियर्स जो हैं चलित  by non-entrepreneurial thinking , thus require the necessary people skills to coach , mentor and motivate technical professionals .
Engineering professionals joining  निर्माण कंपनियाँ  sometimes become engineering managers by default after a period of time .
They are required to learn how to manage once they are on the job , though this is usually an ineffective way to develop managerial  abilities  .
In an insurance policy , the deductible is the amount of expenses that must be paid out of  जेब पहले  an insurer will pay any expenses .
In general usage , the term deductible may be used to describe one of several types of clauses ( see below ) that are used by insurance   companies as a threshold for policy payments .
Deductibles are typically used to  deter  the large number of trivial claims that a consumer can be reasonably expected to bear the cost of .
By restricting its coverage to events that are significant enough to incur large costs , the insurance firm expects to pay out slightly smaller amounts much less  अक्सर , रूष्ट  much higher savings .
As a result , insurance premiums are typically cheaper  जब वे  involve higher deductibles .
Deductibles are normally provided  as clauses in an बीमे नीति  that dictate how much of an insurance-covered expense is borne by the policyholder .
They are normally quoted as a fixed quantity and is a  भाग  of most policies covering losses to the policy holder .
The insurer then becomes liable for  claimable खर्च कि  exceed this amount ( subject to the maximum sum claimable indicated in the contract ) .
Depending on the policy , the deductible may apply per  covered घटना  , or per year .
For policies where incidences are not easy to  delimit ( लिये उदाहरण  health insurance ) , the deductible is typically applied per year .
Several deductibles can be set by the insurer based  on the कारण  of the claim .
For example , a single housing insurance  नीति may contain अनेक deductible  amounts for loss or damage arising from theft , fire , natural calamities , evacuation etc .
वहीँ हैं भी deductible reimbursement  programs that reimburse a deductible in the event of an auto , home , boat/yacht or health insurance claim .
An invoice or bill is a commercial document issued by  a विक्रेता to a खरीदार , indicating  the products , quantities , and agreed prices for products or services the seller has provided the buyer .
An invoice indicates the sale  लेनदेन  only .
Payment terms  हैं  independent of the invoice and are negotiated by the buyer and the seller .
Payment  शर्तें  are usually included on the invoice .
The buyer  could have  already paid for the products or services listed on the invoice .
खरीदार can भी have a  maximum number of days in which to pay for these goods and is sometimes offered a discount if paid before the due date .
In the rental industry , an invoice must include a specific reference to the duration of the time being billed , so in addition to  मात्रा , दाम और छूट the  invoicing amount is also based on duration .
Generally each line of a rental  चालान होगा refer to the वास्तविक  hours , days , weeks , months , etc. , being billed .
From the point of view  of a विक्रेता  , an invoice is a sales invoice .
From the point of view of a buyer ,  an चालान  is a purchase invoice .
The document indicates  the खरीदार और विक्रेता  , but the term invoice indicates money is owed or owing .
In  अंग्रेज़ी ,  the context of the term invoice is usually used to clarify its meaning , such as `` We sent them an invoice '' ( they owe us money ) or `` We received an invoice from them '' ( we owe them money ) .
The right main bronchus ( or right primary bronchus , or right principal bronchus ) is a  bronchus  of the respiratory system .
It is wider , shorter , and more  लंबवत  in direction than the left .
It is  परिचय 2.5 cm long , और  enters the right lung nearly opposite the fifth thoracic vertebra .
The azygos vein  arches over it इससे पीछे ; और  the right pulmonary artery lies at first below and then in front of it .
About 2 cm from its commencement it gives off a branch to  the अपर पालि of  the right lung .
This is termed the  eparterial शाखा of the bronchus  , because it arises above the right pulmonary artery .
The bronchus now passes below the artery , and is known as the hyparterial branch ; it divides into two branches for  the मध्य और निम्नतर निर्मोक  .
if a विदेशी देह in the airway गुजरता  through the trachea , it will most likely enter the right main bronchus instead of the left , due to the straighter alignment of the right bronchus to the trachea .
Squash is a racquet sport played by two ( singles ) or four players ( doubles ) in a four-walled  अदालत साथ a छोटी , खोखला  rubber ball .
The players must alternate in striking the ball with their racquet and hit the ball onto the  playable सतहों of  the four walls of the court .
The game was formerly called squash racquets , a reference to the `` squashable '' soft ball used in the   game ( compared with the fatter ball used in its parent game racquets or rackets ) .
स्क्वैश is पहचाना  by the IOC and supporters are lobbying for its incorporation in a future Olympic program .
In  2003  , Forbes rated squash as the number one healthiest sport to play .
Residual oil is oil found in low concentrations naturally or   in exhausted oil fields .
Often mixed  साथ जल ,  it can not be recovered by conventional techniques .
However , it can be recovered using carbon dioxide-enhanced oil recovery ( CO2 EOR ) which involves injecting  कार्बन डाइऑक्साइड  into the well reducing viscosity and enhancing flow of the oil .
The technique is not new but has not been used extensively on residual oil zones , low-grade deposits of petroleum such as the 38 square miles in the Permian  जलाशय of टेक्सास leased by elliott रूज़वेल्ट  Jr .
The technique is limited by availability of  कार्बन डाइऑक्साइड  .
It does not result in sequestration  of the कार्बन डाइऑक्साइड  but the gas is recycled as much as possible .
United States reserves of residual oil are estimated to be   100 billion barrels .
Artist 's rendering of the fire , by John R. Chapin , originally printed in Harper 's Weekly ; the view faces northeast   across the Randolph Street Bridge .
The Great Chicago Fire  थी a conflagration कि burned इससे संडे , अक्तूबर 8 , to  early Tuesday , October 10 , 1871 , killing hundreds and destroying about in Chicago , Illinois .
Though the fire was one of the largest U.S. disasters of the 19th century , the rebuilding that began helped develop Chicago as one of the most populous and economically  महत्वपूर्ण अमरीकी  cities .
Henry VIII ( 28 June 1491 – 28  जनवरी 1547 )  was king of England from 21 April 1509 until his death .
He was lord , and later king  , of आयरलैंड , as खूब as continuing  the nominal claim by the English monarchs to the Kingdom of France .
Henry was the second monarch of  the ट्यूडर राजवंश , succeeding  his father , Henry VII .
Besides his six marriages , Henry VIII is known for his role in the separation of the Church  of इंग्लैण्ड इससे the रोमन कैथोलिक  Church .
Henry 's struggles with Rome led to the separation of  the गिरिजाघर of इंग्लैण्ड इससे  papal authority , the Dissolution of the Monasteries , and his own establishment as the Supreme Head of the Church of England .
Yet he remained a believer in core Catholic theological teachings , even after his  excommunication इससे the रोमन  Catholic Church .
Henry oversaw the legal union of  इंग्लैण्ड और वेल्स साथ the  Laws in Wales Acts 1535 and 1542 .
In 1513 , the new king allied with   the Holy Roman Emperor , Maximillian I , and invaded France in 1513 with a large , well-equipped army , but achieved little at a considerable financial cost .
Maximillian , for his part , used the English invasion to  उसके अपना ends  , and this prejudiced England 's ability to defeat the French .
This foray would prove the start of an obsession for Henry , who  invaded again in 1544  .
This time , Henry 's forces captured the important city of Boulogne , but again the Holy  रोमन सम्राट , चार्ल्स  V , supported Henry only as long as he needed to and England , strained by the enormous cost of the war , ransomed the city back for peace .
His  contemporaries माना  Henry in his prime to be an attractive , educated and accomplished king , and he has been described as `` one of the most charismatic rulers to sit on the English throne '' .
Besides ruling  साथ निरपेक्ष  power , he also engaged himself as an author and composer .
His desire to provide England with a male heir – which stemmed partly from personal vanity and partly because he believed a daughter would be unable to consolidate the Tudor dynasty and the fragile peace that existed following the Wars of the Roses  – led to the दो बाते लिये जिससे हेनरी is सबसे remembered : उसके छह विवाह और the  English Reformation .
Henry became  रुग्ण मोटे  and his health suffered , contributing to his death in 1547 .
He is frequently characterised in his later life as a lustful , egotistical , harsh  , और असुरक्षित  king .
La Reina del Sur ( The Queen of the South ) is a Spanish-language telenovela produced by the United  राज्य टेलीविज़न संजाल telemundo  , in conjunction with the Antena 3 network and RTI Producciones .
Based on a novel of the same name by Spanish author Arturo Pérez-Reverte , the drama depicts the rise of Teresa Mendoza ( Kate del Castillo ) , a young woman from  मैक्सिको जो becomes the  most powerful drug trafficker in southern Spain .
Patricio Wills , the president of Telemundo Television Studios , was  the कार्यपालिका  producer .
Though La Reina del Sur was  मनोनीत लिये novela  of the Year , Favorite Lead Actress , and Best Bad Luck Video , it won no awards .
साथ a $ 10 लाख बजट  , La Reina del Sur was the most expensive telenovela ever produced by Telemundo .
The program 's  प्रीमियर on फ़रवरी 28  , 2011 , was the network 's highest rated premiere for a telenovela to date .
The  कार्यक्रम अक्सर वर्चस्व  its time slot , even over English language programming on other major U.S. networks .
La Reina del Sur completed its 63 episode run on Telemundo and its 13 episode run on Antena 3  simultaneously on may 30 ,  2011 .
The final episode was the highest rated broadcast in Telemundo 's 19-year history ( 4.2 million  दर्शक ) , और ताल सब of the अंग्रेज़ी भाषा u.S. टेलीविज़न  networks to earn the number one slot in the 18-49 adult demographic .
The program 's   success spurred Telemundo to launch its first campaign to gain the series an Emmy Award nomination .
A one-night special featuring  अनेक डाल सदस्यों aired  on May 31 , 2011 , and marked the Telemundo debut of noted Latina television personality Cristina Saralegui .
La Reina del Sur is broadcast in several  अन्य बाज़ार , सहित सर्बिया , कोलंबिया , चिली , साइप्रस  , Nicaragua , Costa Rica , Mexico , Albania , Hungary , Slovenia , Croatia , Romania , ( among others ) .
An  उदाहरण  of rack mounted servers
A web  होस्टिंग सेवा  is a type of Internet hosting service that allows individuals and organizations to make their website accessible via the World Wide Web .
Web hosts are companies that provide space on a server owned or leased for use by clients ,  as खूब as providing  Internet connectivity , typically in a data center .
Web hosts can also provide data center space and connectivity to the Internet for other servers   located in their data center , called colocation , also known as Housing in Latin America or France .
The scope   of web hosting services varies greatly .
The most basic is web  पेज और small-scale संचिका होस्टिंग , जहाँ फाइलें  can be uploaded via File Transfer Protocol ( FTP ) or a Web interface .
The files are usually  वितरित to  the Web `` as is '' or with minimal processing .
Many Internet service providers (  isps ) प्रस्ताव इस सेवा  free to subscribers .
Individuals and organizations may also obtain Web  पेज होस्टिंग इससे वैकल्पिक  service providers .
Personal web site hosting is  typically  free , advertisement-sponsored , or inexpensive .
Business web site hosting often has a higher expense depending upon the size  और प्रकार of the  website .
Single page hosting is generally sufficient  लिये निजी  web pages .
A complex site calls for a more  व्यापक पैकेज  that provides database support and application development platforms ( e.g . PHP , Java , Ruby on Rails , ColdFusion , or ASP.NET ) .
These facilities allow customers to write or install scripts for applications like  forums और  content management .
Also , Secure Sockets Layer ( SSL ) is typically  प्रयुक्त लिये  e-commerce .
The host may also provide an interface or control panel for managing the Web server and installing scripts , as  खूब  as other modules and service applications like e-mail .
Some hosts specialize in certain software or services ( e.g . e-commerce ) , which  हैं commonly प्रयुक्त by larger कंपनियाँ कि outsource  network infrastructure .
Madden NFL ( known as John Madden  फ़ुटबॉल  before 1993 ) is an American football video game series developed by Electronic Arts Tiburon for EA Sports .
The game series is named after Pro Football Hall of Famer John Madden , a well-known  पूर्व सुपर कटोरी  –winning coach of the Oakland Raiders and color commentator .
the श्रेणी  is the best selling EA Sports series .
The games have consistently been a best  विक्रेता , और  has even spawned TV shows where players compete .
Among the game 's realistic features include  sophisticated playbooks और खिलाड़ी आंकडे , और  voice commentary that allows players to hear the game as if it were a real TV broadcast .
The Madden NFL series has been nicknamed the NFL 's 33rd  मताधिकार  .
The series was originally conceived by Electronic Arts founder Trip Hawkins , who then approached Madden  in 1984 लिये उसके समर्थन और विशेषज्ञता  .
Due to Madden 's insistence that the game be as realistic as possible , the first  संस्करण of जॉन मैडेन फ़ुटबॉल  was not released until 1988 .
The second version of the game was released in  1990 , साथ सालाना  versions since then .
The series ' name was changed to Madden NFL in  1993 बाद  EA acquired the rights to use NFL teams and players .
Despite Madden 's retirement as a broadcaster in 2009 , he continues to lend his name and  provide विशेषज्ञता लिये the  game .
सिंडी ली मिलर  Sheehan ( born July 10 , 1957 ) is an American antiwar activist whose son , U.S. Army Specialist Casey Sheehan , was killed by enemy action during the Iraq War .
She attracted national and international media attention in August 2005 for her extended antiwar protest at a makeshift camp outside President George W. Bush 's Texas ranch  —a स्टैंड कि खींचा  both passionate support and angry criticism .
Sheehan ran unsuccessfully  लिये कॉंग्रेस  in 2008 .
She is a vocal critic of President  बराक ओबामा  's foreign policy .
Her memoir , Peace Mom : A Mother 's Journey Through  heartache to सक्रियता  , was published in 2006 .
Sheehan was the 2012 vice-presidential nominee of  the सलाम और स्वतंत्रता  Party .
Wyclef  jeanelle जां ( ; ; born  October 17 , 1969 ) Wyclef Dumped From Haiti 's Presidential Ballot – TIME , Aug 21 , 2010 .
``  पहले he घोषित  on August 5 that he was running for President of Haiti , Wyclef Jean was still listing his age as only 37 years old .
But after declaring himself a presidential candidate , the Haitian-American-Irish hip-hop star also decided to come clean and confirm that he was really  40 .  '' is a three-time Grammy Award -winning Haitian-American rapper , singer-songwriter , musician , record producer , and politician .
At  आयु नौ , जां स्थानांतरित to the  United States with his family and has spent much of his life in the country .
He first received fame as a member of the  acclaimed  New Jersey hip hop group the Fugees .
On August 5 , 2010 , Jean filed for candidacy in the 2010 Haitian presidential election , although the Electoral Commission subsequently  ruled him  ineligible to stand as he had not met the requirement to have been resident in Haiti for five years .
Wyclef Jean to appeal against Haiti  चुनाव सत्ताधारी – बीबीसी  News , Aug 22 , 2010 .
Haiti 's electoral commission said that Mr Jean was ineligible to stand as  the haitian संविधान requires  candidates to have lived in the country for five years prior to an election .
The  40-year-old  singer lives in the US .
Jean 's efforts at earthquake relief , highly publicized in 2010 throughout Haiti and the United States  , यहूद channeled through उसके charitable  organization , Yéle Haiti .
The charity , which performed a variety of charitable works in Haiti between 2005 and 2010 ,  effectively  closed in 2012 .
In law , a set-off is a statutory defense to the  पूरे or  to a portion of a plaintiff 's claim .
It had no  अस्तित्व अंतर्गत the अंग्रेज़ी आम विधि  , being created by 2 Geo . II c. 22 for the relief of insolvent debtors , although set-off was recognized in equity .
Such a defense could be pleaded only in respect of mutual debts of a definite character  , और  did not apply to cases in which damages were claimed , nor to equitable claims or demands .
By the rules of the Supreme Court ( O. XIX . r. 3 ) a defendant in an action may set off or set up any  right  or claim by way of counterclaim against the claims of a plaintiff , and such set-off or counterclaim has the same effect as a statement of claim in a cross-action .
The legal defense of set-off ( above ) was originally introduced to prevent the unfair situation whereby a person ( `` Party A '' ) who owed money to another ( ``  पार्टी b '' ) could be  sent to debtors prison , despite the fact that Party B also owed money to Party A .
The  विधि यूँ  allows both parties to defer payment until their respective claims have been heard in court .
Upon judgment , both claims are extinguished  and replaced by a  single net sum owing ( e.g . If Party A owes Party B 100 and Party B owes Party A 105 , the two sums are set off and replaced with a single obligation of 5 from Party B to Party A ) .
Set-off can also be incorporated by contractual agreement so  कि , जहाँ a पार्टी मूलभूत , the  mutual amounts owing are automatically set off and extinguished .
In certain  jurisdictions ( सहित the uk  ) , set-off takes place automatically upon the insolvency of a company .
इस अर्थात् कि , लिये प्रत्येक पार्टी जिससे is दोनो a  creditor and debtor of the insolvent company , mutual debts are set-off against each other , and then either the bankrupt 's creditor can claim the balance in the bankruptcy or the trustee in bankruptcy can ask for the balance remaining to be paid , depending on which side owed the most .
This has been criticized as an undeclared security interest that  violates  the principle of pari passu .
The alternative , where a creditor has to pay all its debts , but receive only a limited  portion  of the leftover moneys that other unsecured creditors get , poses the danger of 'knock-on ' insolvencies .
The right to set off is particularly important when reporting a bank  's विकिरणों to नियामक  authorities .
The situation where a bank has to report that it has lent a large sum to a borrower ( and is therefore exposed , because there is a risk that the borrower might default thereby leading to the loss of the bank 's or its depositors ' money ) is thus replaced (  जहाँ the बैंको रै लिया सुरक्षा  over shares or securities of the borrower ) with an exposure of the money lent minus the value of the security taken .
Jennifer Joanna Aniston ( born February 11 , 1969 ) is  an अमरीकी अभिनेत्री , फिल्मी निदेशक , और निर्माता  .
Aniston  gained विश्वव्यापी  recognition in the 1990s for portraying Rachel Green on the television sitcom Friends , a role which earned her an Emmy Award , a Golden Globe Award , and a Screen Actors Guild Award .
Aniston has also enjoyed a successful  हॉलीवुड फिल्मी करियर  .
She gained critical acclaim for her performances in the independent films She 's the  एक ( 1996 )  , Office Space ( 1999 ) , The Good Girl ( 2002 ) and Friends with Money ( 2006 ) .
She has had her greatest commercial successes  साथ the films ब्रूस सर्वशक्तिमान  ( 2003 ) , The Break-Up ( 2006 ) , Marley & Me ( 2008 ) , Just Go with It ( 2011 ) and Horrible Bosses ( 2011 ) .
Aniston  प्राप्त a स्टार on the  Hollywood Walk of Fame on February 22 , 2012 .
A white Bengal  बाघ  at the Houston Aquarium
(  वीडियो )
A White tiger at Tobu  चिड़ियाघर , in  Saitama , Japan .
The white tiger  is a recessive म्यूटेंट of the बंगाल बाघ , जिससे थी reported  in the wild from time to time in Assam , Bengal , Bihar and especially from the former State of Rewa .
Conventional PCI ( PCI is an initialism formed from Peripheral Component Interconnect , part of the PCI Local Bus standard and often shortened to just PCI ) is a local computer bus for  attaching  hardware devices in a computer .
The PCI bus supports  the  functions found on a processor bus , but in a standardized format that is independent of any particular processor .
Devices connected to the bus  appear  to the processor to be connected directly to the processor bus , and are assigned addresses in the processor 's address space .
Attached devices can take either the form of an integrated circuit fitted onto the motherboard itself , called a   planar device in the PCI specification , or an expansion card that fits into a slot .
The PCI Local Bus was first implemented in IBM PC compatibles , where it displaced the combination of ISA plus one VESA  Local Bus as the  bus configuration .
It has subsequently been  अपनाया लिये  other computer types .
PCI and PCI-X are being replaced by PCI Express , but , most motherboards are still made  साथ एक or अधिक पीसीआई स्लॉट ,  which are sufficient for many uses .
The PCI specification covers the physical size of the bus ( including the size and spacing of the circuit  फलक किनारे विद्युत सम्पर्क ) , विद्युत  characteristics , bus timing , and protocols .
The specification can be purchased from the PCI Special Interest Group (  pci-sig )  .
Typical  पीसीआई ताश प्रयुक्त in pcs शामिल : संजाल ताश , ध्वनि ताश , modems , अतिरिक्त पोर्ट ऐसे as usb or सीरियल , tv ट्यूनर ताश और डिस्क परिरक्षक .
PCI video cards replaced ISA and VESA cards , until growing bandwidth  आवश्यकताएँ outgrew  the capabilities of PCI ; the preferred interface for video cards became AGP , and then PCI Express .
PCI video cards remain available for use  साथ  old PCs without AGP or PCI Express slots .
Many devices previously provided on PCI expansion cards are now commonly integrated onto motherboards or available in  सार्वभौमिक सीरियल बस और पीसीआई  Express versions .
Caffeine is a bitter , white crystalline xanthine alkaloid that acts as  a उत्तेजक ड्रग .
Caffeine is found in varying quantities in the seeds , leaves , and fruit of some plants , where it acts as a  natural pesticide that  paralyzes and kills certain insects feeding on the plants , as well as enhancing the reward memory of pollinators .
It is most  commonly  consumed by humans in infusions extracted from the seed of the coffee plant and the leaves of the tea bush , as well as from various foods and drinks containing products derived from the kola nut .
Other sources include yerba maté  , guarana  berries , guayusa , and the yaupon holly .
In  इंसानो , कैफीन  acts as a central nervous system stimulant , temporarily warding off drowsiness and restoring alertness .
It is the world 's  सबसे widely  consumed psychoactive drug , but unlike many other psychoactive substances , it is legal and unregulated in nearly all parts of the world .
Beverages containing  कैफीन  , such as coffee , tea , soft drinks , and energy drinks , enjoy great popularity .
In North America , 90 % of adults consume  कैफीन रोज़  .
Part of the reason caffeine is classified by the Food and Drug Administration as GRAS ( generally recognized as safe ) is that toxic doses ( over 10 grams ) are much higher than typically used  doses ( कम than 500  milligrams ) .
Ordinary consumption can have low health risks ,  भी जब carried on लिये सालो  – there may be a modest protective effect against some diseases , including Parkinsons Disease , and certain types of cancer .
Caffeine can have both positive and negative effects on  चिंता विकार  .
Some people experience sleep disruption if they consume caffeine , especially during the evening hours , but others show little  disturbance और the प्रभाव of कैफीन on नींद is अत्यधिक परिवर्तनीय  .
Evidence of a risk to pregnancy is equivocal , but some  अधिकारियों have concluded कि  prudent advice is for pregnant women to limit consumption to the equivalent of two cups of coffee per day or less .
The  अमरीकी कॉंग्रेस of obstetricians और स्त्रीरोग  ( ACOG ) concluded in 2010 that caffeine consumption is safe up to 200 mg per day in pregnant women .
Caffeine has pressor and mild diuretic effects when  administered to लोगों जो हैं नहीं प्रयुक्त to it ,  but regular users develop a tolerance to this effect , and studies have generally failed to support the common notion that ordinary consumption contributes significantly to dehydration .
With heavy use , tolerance   develops rapidly to autonomic effects such as elevated heart rate and muscle twitching , but not to the cognitive or arousal effects of caffeine .
The  उपाधि to जिससे कैफीन can उपज clinically significant शारीरिक और दिमागी dependence remains a विषय of विवाद in the चिकित्सा साहित्य .
a  kicktail cruiser
A longboard is a longer  रूपांतर of a स्केटबोर्ड  .
It is commonly used for cruising , downhill racing  , slalom  racing , sliding , and/or transport .
Sources outside of  विकिपीडिया दे  differing estimates:
The CIA 's World Factbook gives the world population as 7,021,836,029 ( July 2012 est . ) and the distribution of religions as Christian 100 % ( of which Roman Catholic 18.85 % , Protestant 8.15 % , Orthodox 4.96 % , Anglican 1.26 % ) , Muslim 22.74 % , Hindu  13.8 % , बौद्ध 6.77 % , सिखों 0.35 % , यहूदी 0.22 % , baha'i 0.11  % , other religions 10.95 % , non-religious 9.66 % , atheists 2.01 % .
( 2010  est  . ) .
The Coast Ranges of  कैलिफ़ोर्निया स्पैन इससे हम्बोल्ट  County , California south to Santa Barbara County .
The other three  तटीय कैलिफ़ोर्निया  mountain ranges are the Transverse Ranges , Peninsular Ranges and the Klamath Mountains .
Physiographically , they are a  खण्ड of the larger प्रशांत किनारा प्रांत , जिससे in फेरे हैं  part of the larger Pacific Mountain System physiographic division .
UNESCO has included the `` California Coast Ranges Biosphere   Reserve `` in its Man and the Biosphere Programme of World Network of Biosphere Reserves since 1983 .
वाहनों in उपयोग  per country from 2001 to 2007 .
It shows the  significant विकास in  BRIC .
World map of passenger cars per  1000  people
An automobile , autocar , motor car or car is a wheeled motor vehicle  प्रयुक्त लिये transporting  passengers , which also carries its own engine or motor .
Most definitions of the term specify that automobiles are designed to run primarily on roads , to have seating for one to eight people , to typically have  चार पहियों , और to be constructed प्रधानतया लिये  the transport of people rather than goods .
The term motorcar has also been used in the context of electrified rail systems to denote  a car जिससे कृत्यों as a छोटी लोकोमोटिव  but also provides space for passengers and baggage .
These locomotive cars were often used on suburban routes by both interurban and  intercity रेलरोड  systems .
It was estimated in 2010 that the number of  ऑटोमोबाइल  had risen to over 1 billion vehicles , up from the 500 million of 1986 .
The numbers  हैं  increasing rapidly , especially in China and India .
John Fitzgerald `` Jack '' Kennedy ( May 29 , 1917 – November 22 , 1963 ) , often referred to by his initials JFK , was the 35th President of the United States , serving   from 1961 until his death in 1963 .
After military service as commander of the Motor Torpedo Boats PT-109 and PT-59 during World War II in the South Pacific , Kennedy represented Massachusetts ' 11th congressional district in the U.S. House of  प्रतिनिधि  from 1947 to 1953 as a Democrat .
Thereafter , he  परोसा  in the U.S. Senate from 1953 until 1960 .
Kennedy defeated Vice President and Republican candidate Richard Nixon  in the  1960 U.S. presidential election .
At 43 years of age , he is the youngest to have been elected to the office , the second-youngest President ( after  थियोडोर  Roosevelt ) , and the first person born in the 20th century to serve as president .
A Catholic , Kennedy is the only  non- प्रोटोस्टेंट अध्यक्ष  , and is the only president to have won a Pulitzer Prize .
Events during his presidency included the Bay of Pigs Invasion , the Cuban Missile Crisis , the building of the Berlin Wall , the Space  रेस , the african-american सिविल अधिकारों गति , और जल्दी चरण  of the Vietnam War .
Therein , Kennedy increased the number of military advisers , special operation  शक्तियां , और helicopters in an प्रयत्न to कोर  the spread of communism in South East Asia .
The Kennedy administration adopted the policy of the  रणनीतिक हैमलेट कार्यक्रम जिससे थी implemented  by the South Vietnamese government .
It involved certain forced relocation , village internment , and segregation of  ग्रामीण दक्षिण वियतनामी इससे the उत्तरी  and southern communist insurgents .
Kennedy was assassinated on  नवम्बर 22  , 1963 in Dallas , Texas .
Lee Harvey Oswald was charged with  the अपराधों , लकिन he थी शॉट  and killed by Jack Ruby two days later , before a trial could take place .
The FBI  और the वारेन आयोग officially  concluded that Oswald was the lone assassin .
However  , the संयुक्त राज्य हाउस चुनें  Committee on Assassinations ( HSCA ) concluded that those investigations were flawed and that Kennedy was probably assassinated as the result of a conspiracy .
However , ABC News in their investigation , The Kennedy  हत्या : परे षड्यंत्र  , confirmed the findings of the Warren Commission ; having concluded Oswald acted alone .
Kennedy  's  controversial Department of Defense TFX fighter bomber program led to a Congressional investigation that lasted from 1963 to 1970 .
Since the 1960s information  concerning कैनेडी 's  private life has come to light .
Details of Kennedy 's health problems in which  he struggled have become बेहतर  known , especially since the 1990s .
Although initially kept secret from the general public , reports of Kennedy 's philandering  have garnered much दबायें  .
Kennedy  बाँधने अत्यधिक in  public opinion ratings of U.S. presidents .
A Siemens MXL fire alarm control panel (  शीर्ष ) और ग्राफिक  annunciator ( bottom ) for Potomac Hall , at James Madison University .
A Vigilant VM-1 fire alarm  कंट्रोल ईकाई ( facu ) / autonomous कंट्रोल ईकाई ( acu )  with integrated voice evacuation and fire fighter telephone system .
Manufactured by Edwards , A UTC F  &  S Company
A Fire Alarm Control Panel ( FACP  ) ,  or Fire Alarm Control Unit ( FACU ) , is the controlling component of a Fire Alarm System .
The panel receives information from environmental sensors designed to detect changes associated with fire , monitors their operational integrity and provides  for  automatic control of equipment , and transmission of information necessary to prepare the facility for fire based on a predetermined sequence .
The panel may also supply electrical energy to operate any associated sensor , control , transmitter  , or रिले  .
There are four basic types of panels : coded panels , conventional panels , addressable panels ,  और मल्टीप्लेक्स प्रणालियों  .
This is a list of the  पहला म्यूज़िक  videos broadcast on MTV 's first day , August 1 , 1981 .
MTV 's first day on the air was rebroadcast on VH1 Classic in 2006 and uploaded onto YouTube in 2010 ( although only the first  four  hours were authentic ; the rest were edited VH1 rebroadcasts ) .
Bandaranaike International Airport ( BIA ) ( also known as  katunayake अंतरराष्ट्रीय विमानक्षेत्र  and Colombo International Airport ) is one of the two international airports serving the city of Colombo , the other is Ratmalana International Airport .
Mattala Rajapaksa International Airport located in southern city of  hambantota is the अन्य अंतरराष्ट्रीय  airport in Sri Lanka .
Bandaranaike International Airport is located in  katunayake ,  22 miles ( 35 km ) north of Colombo .
It is  administered by विमानक्षेत्र और विमानन  Services ( Sri Lanka ) Ltd .
It is the hub of SriLankan Airlines , the national carrier of Sri  लंका ,  and Mihin Lanka , the budget airline of Sri Lanka .
Black Swan is a 2010 American psychological thriller and horror film directed by Darren Aronofsky and starring  नताली पोर्टमैन , विंसेंट cassel , और  Mila Kunis .
The plot revolves around a production of Tchaikovsky 's Swan Lake ballet  by a prestigious  New York City company .
The production requires a ballerina to play the innocent and fragile White Swan , for which the committed dancer Nina ( Portman ) is a perfect fit , as well as the dark and sensual Black Swan , which  हैं qualities  embodied by the new arrival Lily ( Kunis ) .
Nina is overwhelmed by a feeling of  immense दबाव जब वो पाता  herself competing for the part , causing her to lose her tenuous grip on reality and descend into a living nightmare .
Aronofsky conceived the premise by connecting his viewings of a production of Swan Lake with an unrealized screenplay about understudies and the notion of being haunted by a double , similar to the   folklore surrounding doppelgängers .
Aronofsky cites Fyodor  दोस्तोयेव्स्की 's `` the दोगुना  `` as another inspiration for the film .
The director also  माना ब्लैक swan  a companion piece to his 2008 film The Wrestler , with both films involving demanding performances for different kinds of art .
He and Portman first discussed the project in 2000 , and after a brief attachment to Universal Studios , Black Swan was  उत्पादित  in New York City in 2009 by Fox Searchlight Pictures .
Portman and Kunis trained in ballet for several months  prior to फिल्मांकन , और notable आंकड़े  from the ballet world helped with film production to shape the ballet presentation .
The film premiered as the  खोलने फिल्मी लिये the 67th वेनिस  International Film Festival on September 1 , 2010 .
It had a limited release  in the संयुक्त राज्य starting  December 3 , 2010 and opened nationwide on December 17 .
ब्लैक swan प्राप्त नाजुक तारीफ़ upon इसके रिलीज , विशेषकर लिये पोर्टमैन 's प्रदर्शन और aronofsky 's दिशा , और थी a significant बक्सा दफ्तर कामयाबी , grossing $ 329 लाख विश्वव्यापी  .
The film received five Academy Award nominations and Portman won the Best Actress award for the film , as well as many other Best Actress awards in several guilds and  त्यौहार  , while Aronofsky was nominated for Best Director .
In addition , the film  itself प्राप्त a नामांकन  for Best Picture .
The world’s first ice-calorimeter , used in the  शीत of 1782-83 , by एंटोनी लाव्वाज़्ये और pierre-simon  Laplace , to determine the heat involved in various chemical changes ; calculations which were based on Joseph Black ’s prior discovery of latent heat .
ये प्रयोग  mark the foundation of thermochemistry .
A calorimeter ( from Latin calor , meaning heat ) is an object used for calorimetry , or the process of measuring the heat of  रासायनिक प्रतिक्रियाएँ or शारीरिक  changes as well as heat capacity .
अवकल स्कैनिंग calorimeters , समतापी microcalorimeters  , titration calorimeters and accelerated rate calorimeters are among the most common types .
A simple calorimeter just consists of a thermometer  संलग्न to a मेटल संग्राहक पूरा of जल निलंबित  above a combustion chamber .
To find the enthalpy change per mole of a substance A in a reaction between two  substances a और b , the substances हैं  added to a calorimeter and the initial and final temperatures ( before the reaction started and after it has finished ) are noted .
Multiplying the  तापमान बदलें  by the mass and specific heat capacities of the substances gives a value for the energy given off or absorbed during the reaction .
Dividing the energy change by how many moles of A were present  देता इसके enthalpy  change of reaction .
This method is used  primarily  in academic teaching as it describes the theory of calorimetry .
it करता नहीं खाता लिये the ऊष्मा घाटा through the संग्राहक or the ऊष्मा क्षमता of the थर्मामीटर और संग्राहक itself  .
In addition , the object placed inside the  ऊष्मामापी  shows that the objects transferred their heat to the calorimeter and into the liquid , and the heat absorbed by the calorimeter and the liquid is equal to the heat given off by the metals .
A  जोड़ी  of green flip-flops
Flip-flops ( also called zōri , thongs , jandals , or  a किस्में of अन्य names throughout  the world ) are a type of open-toed sandal typically worn in casual situations , such as outside or at the beach .
They consist of a flat sole held loosely on the foot by a Y-shaped strap that passes  between the पहला और दूसरी  toes and around either side of the foot .
They may also be held to the foot with a single strap over the front of  the पैर  rather than a thong .
The name `` flip-flop '' originated because of the sound  कि is बना by  slapping between the sole of the foot and the floor when walking .
This style of footwear has been worn by the people of many  संस्कृतियों  throughout the world , originating as early as the ancient Egyptians in 4,000 B.C .
the आधुनिक  flip-flop descends from the Japanese zōri , which became popular after World War II when soldiers returning to the United States brought them back .
They became popular in casual settings during the 1960s , 1990s  , and  2000s , and some varieties have even found their way into more formal attire , despite criticism .
the उपयोग  of flip-flops can result in many pains and injuries , including ankle sprains and broken bones .
Some individuals who walk for long periods report pain in  the  feet , ankles , and lower legs .
The lack of support provided by flip-flops often results in over-pronation injuries , caused by the foot  घुसते inwards further  than normal .
This can lead to flat feet and  tendonitis  .
Other  चोटों कि may परिणाम  are due to the footwear 's open-toed nature , such as stubbed toes , cuts , and bruises .
Doctors recommend purchasing pricier sandals with thick-cushioned soles , as well as those that have a strap that  is नहीं  canvas and that comes back almost to the ankle .
the स्वामी of hanjin  Osaka , seen here transiting the Panama Canal in 2008 , declared general average following an explosion in the ship 's engine room on .
The law of general average is a legal principle of maritime law according to  जिससे  all parties in a sea venture proportionally share any losses resulting from a voluntary sacrifice of part of the ship or cargo to save the whole in an emergency .
In the exigencies of hazards faced at sea , crew members often have precious little time in which to determine precisely whose  कार्गो वे हैं  jettisoning .
Thus , to avoid quarrelling that could waste valuable time , there arose the  निष्पक्ष अभ्यास whereby सब the व्यापारियों  whose cargo landed safely would be called on to contribute a portion , based upon a share or percentage , to the merchant or merchants whose goods had been tossed overboard to avert imminent peril .
While general average traces its origins in  प्राचीन मेरीटाइम  law , still it remains part of the admiralty law of most countries .
The first codification of  सामान्य औसत  was the York Antwerp Rules of 1890 .
अमरीकी कंपनियाँ स्वीकृत it in 1949  .
General average requires three elements which are clearly stated by Mr. Justice Grier in  बर्नार्ड  v. Adams:
``  1st  .
A common danger : a danger in which vessel , cargo and crew all participate ; a danger imminent and apparently  'inevitable , ' मगर by voluntarily रूष्ट the घाटा of  a portion of the whole to save the remainder . ''
`` 2nd . There must  be a voluntary jettison , jactus , or ढलाई दूर , of कुछ  portion of the joint concern for the purpose of avoiding this imminent peril , periculi imminentis evitandi causa , or , in other words , a transfer of the peril from the whole to a particular portion of the whole . ''
``  3rd  .
इस attempt to avoid  the imminent common peril must be successful '' .
Example Polish call for  टीकाकरण विरूद्ध डिप्थीरिया  and Tetanus .
a टीकाकरण अनुसूची is a श्रेणी of vaccinations , सहित the समय of सब doses , जिससे may be either अनुशंसित or अनिवार्य , depending on the देश of  residence .
A vaccine is an antigenic preparation used to produce  क्रियाशील प्रतिरक्षण to a बीमारी  , in order to prevent or reduce the effects of infection by any natural or `` wild '' pathogen .
Many vaccines require multiple doses for maximum effectiveness , either to produce sufficient initial immune response or to boost response  कि fades over  time .
For example , tetanus vaccine boosters are often  अनुशंसित प्रत्येक  10 years .
Vaccine schedules are developed by governmental agencies or physicians groups to achieve maximum effectiveness using required and recommended vaccines for a locality while minimizing  the क्रमांक of स्वास्थ्य परवाह  system interactions .
over the पास्ट दो दशकों , the अनुशंसित टीकाकरण अनुसूची रै grown rapidly और become अधिक जटिल as अनेक नई टीके have महरूम विकसित .
Some vaccines are recommended only in certain areas ( countries , subnational areas , or at-risk  populations  ) where a disease is common .
For instance , yellow fever vaccination is on the routine vaccine schedule of  फ्रेंच guiana , is अनुशंसित  in certain regions of Brazil but in the United States is only given to travelers heading to countries with a history of the disease .
In developing countries , vaccine recommendations also take into account the  स्तर of स्वास्थ्य परवाह  access , the cost of vaccines and issues with vaccine availability and storage .
Sample vaccinations schedules discussed by the World Health Organization show a developed country using a schedule which extends over the first five years of a child 's life and uses vaccines which cost over $ 700 including  प्रशासन लागत जबकि a विकासशील देश उपयोग a अनुसूची providing  vaccines in the first 9 months of life and costing only $ 25 .
This difference is due to the lower cost of health care , the lower cost of many vaccines provided to developing nations , and that more expensive vaccines  , प्रायः लिये कम आम रोगों , हैं नहीं utilized  .
In 1900 , the smallpox vaccine was the only one administered to  children  .
By the early 1950s , children routinely received four vaccines , for protection against  ( डिप्थीरिया , pertussis  , tetanus , polio , and smallpox ) , and as many as five shots by two years of age .
Since the mid-1980s , many vaccines have  महरूम  added to the schedule .
, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( CDC ) now recommends  टीकाकरण  against at least fourteen diseases .
By  two  years of age , U.S. children receive as many as 24 vaccine injections , and might receive up to five shots during one visit to the doctor .
The use of combination vaccine products means that , , the United Kingdom 's immunization program consists of 10 injections by the age of two , rather than 25 if vaccination for each disease was   given as a separate injection .
Two  revellers  dance in the streets .
The form of dancing is called `` wining ''  ( घुमावदार ) सुनाया  wine-ing
A Music Truck entertains the crowd on  the गलियों  .
Trucks are an integral part of the street parade , featuring live performances  or deejays
The Trinidad and Tobago Carnival is an annual  इवेंट आयोजित on the सोमवार और मंगलवार पहले  Ash Wednesday , and is well known for participant 's colorful costumes and exuberant celebrations .
Carnival in Trinidad and Tobago is the most significant event on the islands '  सांस्कृतिक और पर्यटन पंचांग  , with numerous cultural events running in the lead up to the street parade on Carnival Monday and Tuesday .
It is said that  if the आइलैंडर्स  are not celebrating it , then they are preparing for it , while reminiscing about the past year 's festival .
The  दिल of the musical  celebration has been calypso ; recently soca has replaced calypso as the most celebrated type of music .
Costumes , stickfighting and limbo competitions are  भी महत्वपूर्ण  components of the festival .
Carnival as it is celebrated in Trinidad  और टोबैगो is भी मनाये  in cities worldwide .
These including Toronto 's Caribana , Miami 's Miami Carnival , Houston  carifest , लंदन  's Notting Hill Carnival as well as New York City 's Labor Day Carnival to name a few .
Carnival was created  जब वेस्ट अफ़्रीकी स्लेव mimicked  their French owners who where known for their lavish costumes balls .
Forbidden to partake in these festivities and confined to their quarters , slaves combined elements from their own  संस्कृतियों  to their master 's fete .
Hence the creation   of characters such as Jab Jab or Jab Molassie ( Devils ) , Midnight Robbers , Imps , Lagahroo , Soucouyant , La Diablesse and Demons .
With the abolition of slavery in 1838 , freed Africans took their version  of कार्निवल to  the streets through expression of drums , riddim sections like tamboo bamboo and as each new immigrant population entered Trinidad , Carnival evolved into what we know today .
The city of Chicago  , इलिनोइस आयोजित a  nonpartisan mayoral election on Tuesday , February 22 , 2011 .
लाज़िम महापौर रिचर्ड M.  Daley , a member of the Democratic Party who had been in office since 1989 , did not seek a seventh term as mayor .
उम्मीदवार  needed to collect 12,500 petition signatures by November 22 , 2010 to qualify for a place on the ballot .
April 5 , 2011 was scheduled to be a runoff election date if no  प्रत्याशी  received an absolute majority .
Rahm Emanuel won  the रेस लिये  mayor with more than 55 % of the vote .
He was  उदघाटन  on May 16 , 2011 .
``  उत्तेजित  Up Kicks '' is a song by American indie pop band Foster the People .
It was released as the group 's debut single in  सितंबर  2010 , and the following year was included on their EP Foster the People and their debut album Torches .
`` Pumped Up Kicks '' became the group 's breakthrough hit  and  was one of the most popular songs of 2011 .
The song was written and recorded by  frontman चिह्नित फोस्टर  while he was working as a commercial jingle writer .
Contrasting with the upbeat musical  संयोजन  , the lyrics describe the homicidal thoughts of a troubled youth .
The track received considerable attention after it was posted online in 2010 as a free download , and it helped the group garner a multi-album record deal with  कोलंबिया रिकॉर्ड imprint  Startime International .
`` Pumped Up Kicks  '' proved to be a स्लीपर hit ; in 2011 , बाद  receiving significant airplay on modern rock stations , the song crossed-over onto contemporary hit radio stations .
The song spent eight consecutive weeks at number three on the Billboard Hot 100 chart in  the संयुक्त राज्य  , making it the first Billboard Alternative Songs number-one single to crack the U.S. top 5 since Kings of Leon 's `` Use Somebody `` in 2009 .
The song was widely praised by critics , and it has been licensed  लिये उपयोग in  a wide range of popular media since its release .
``  उत्तेजित up kicks  '' received a Grammy Award nomination for Best Pop Duo/Group Performance .
The State Fair of West Virginia is an annual state  मेला लिये वेस्ट वर्जिनिया  .
It is held annually in  mid-august on the राज्य  Fairgrounds in Fairlea , near Lewisburg , West Virginia in the southeastern part of the state .
The State Fairgrounds consists of a large open field for carnivals and  प्रदर्शनियों , a घोड़ा track , grandstands , और अनेक  exhibition buildings .
Free parking is provided adjacent to the fairgrounds and , until 2006 , free camping was also available in a large field with  running-water toilets और बौछार  , but no hookups .
Campers are now charged a  छोटी  fee .
The White House , the president 's official residence and center of  the प्रशासन
Under the  संयुक्त राज्य  Constitution , the President of the United States is the head of state and head of government of the United States .
As chief of the executive branch and  सिर of the संघीय सरकारी as a पूरे  , the presidency is the highest political office in the United States by influence and recognition .
The president is also the  commander-in-chief  of the United States Armed Forces .
The president is indirectly elected to a four-year term by an Electoral College ( or by the House of Representatives should the Electoral College fail to award  an निरपेक्ष बहुमत of मत  to any person ) .
Since the ratification of the  twenty-second amendment to the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान in  1951 , no person may be elected President more than twice , and no one who has served more than two years of a term to which someone else was elected may be elected more than once .
Upon the death , resignation , or removal from office of an incumbent President , the Vice  अध्यक्ष  assumes the office .
The President must be at least 35  सालो of आयु  and a `` natural born '' citizen of the United States .
This  सूची शामिल तभी those  persons who were sworn into office as president following the ratification of the United States Constitution , which took effect on March 4 , 1789 .
For American leaders before this  अनुसमर्थन , देखिए  President of the Continental Congress .
The  सूची करता नहीं  include any Acting Presidents under the Twenty-fifth Amendment to the United States Constitution .
There have been 43 people sworn into office , and 44 presidencies , as  ग्रोवर क्लीवलैंड परोसा  two non-consecutive terms and is counted chronologically as both the 22nd and 24th president .
Of the individuals elected as president , four died in office of natural causes ( William Henry Harrison , Zachary  टेलर , वारेन G. हार्डिंग , और  Franklin D. Roosevelt ) , four were assassinated ( Abraham Lincoln , James A. Garfield , William McKinley , and John F. Kennedy ) and one resigned ( Richard Nixon ) .
George Washington , the first president , was inaugurated in 1789 after a unanimous vote of  the चुनावी  College .
William Henry Harrison spent the shortest time  in दफ्तर साथ 32 दिनों in 1841 , और फ्रैंकलिन  D. Roosevelt spent the longest with over twelve years , but died shortly into his fourth term in 1945 .
He is the only president to serve more  than दो शर्तें  , and a constitutional amendment , affecting presidents after Harry Truman , was passed to limit the number of times an individual can be elected president .
Andrew  जैक्सन , the  seventh president , was the first to be elected by men of all classes in 1828 after most laws barring non-land-owners from voting were repealed .
Warren Harding was the first elected after women  gained मतदान अधिकारों in 1920  .
History records four presidents – John Q Adams , Rutherford B. Hayes , Benjamin Harrison and George W. Bush –  जो खोया the लोकप्रिय vote  but assumed office .
John F. Kennedy has been the only president of Roman  कैथोलिक आस्था  , and the current president , Barack Obama , is the first president of African descent .
`` Lombardi  ट्रॉफी '' redirects  here .
For the award  awarded annually to the बेहतरीन  college football lineman or linebacker , see Lombardi Award .
The Vince Lombardi Trophy is the trophy awarded each year to the winning team  of the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल  League 's championship game , the Super Bowl .
The trophy is named in  सम्मान of legendary  NFL coach Vince Lombardi .
This  is a सूची of  tables of the verified oldest people in the world in ordinal rank , such as oldest person or oldest man .
In these tables , a supercentenarian is considered 'verified ' if his or  उसके अर्जी रै महरूम validated by an अंतरराष्ट्रीय देह कि  specifically deals in longevity research , such as the Gerontology Research Group ( GRG ) or Guinness World Records .
The longest unambiguously documented human  जीवनकाल is कि of jeanne calment of फ़्रांस (  1875–1997 ) , who died at age 122 years , 164 days .
She met Vincent  वैन gogh  when she was 12 or 13 .
This led to news media  ध्यान in  1985 , after Calment turned 110 .
Subsequent investigation found documentation for Calment 's age , beyond  कोई उचित  question , in the records of her native city , Arles , France .
More evidence of Calment 's lifespan has been produced than for any other supercentenarian ; her  मामला serves as an archetype  in the methodology for verifying the ages of the world 's oldest people .
The longest  undisputed  lifespan for male supercentenarians is that of Jiroemon Kimura , who currently lives in Japan and is age as of .
Since the death of 115-year old Dina Manfredini of the United States , on 17 December 2012 , Kimura , born 19 April 1897 , is the oldest living person in the world  जिनकी आयु can be प्रलेखित  .
He has also been the oldest living man since the  मौत of 114-year  old Walter Breuning on 14 April 2011 .
Since the death of 115-year old Koto Okubo of Japan on 12 January 2013 , the oldest living woman has been -year-old Misao  okawa , भी इससे जापानी , born  on 5 March 1898 .
the लोगों 's अदालत is an अमरीकी arbitration-based वास्तविकता अदालत दिखाएँ , फिलहाल presided over by रिटायर्ड फ्लोरिडा राज्य सर्किट अदालत न्यायधीश मर्लिन milian , in जिससे छोटी दावा विवादों हैं संभाला .
The People 's Court is  the पहला  court show to use binding arbitration , introducing the format into the genre in 1981 .
The system  रै महरूम duplicated  by most of the show 's successors in the judicial genre .
Moreover , The People 's Court is the first popular  ,  long-running reality in the judicial genre .
It was preceded only by a few short-lived realities in the genre ; these short-lived predecessors were only loosely related to judicial proceedings , except for one : Parole ( 1959 )  took फुटेज इससे real-life courtrooms पकड़कर  legal proceedings .
Prior  to the लोगों 's अदालत , the विशाल बहुमत of tv courtroom shows प्रयुक्त अभिनेताओं , और बनाई or fictional मामले ( as किया रेडियो पहले कि ) .
Among examples of these types of court shows  शामिल  Famous Jury Trials and Your Witness .
The People 's Court has  था दो चिहृ जीवनदान  .
The show 's first life was presided over solely by former Los Angeles  काउंटी श्रेष्ठ अदालत  Judge Joseph Wapner .
His tenure lasted from the show 's debut on September 14 , 1981 , until May 21 , 1993 , when  the दिखाएँ थी रद्द due  to low ratings .
This left the show with a total  of 2,484  1⁄2-hour episodes and 12 seasons .
The show was taped in  लॉस  Angeles during its first life .
After being cancelled , reruns  aired  until September 9 , 1994 .
On September 8 , 1997 , after being out of production for four years , The People 's  अदालत थी revived लिये a दूसरी  life in first-run syndication as a 60-minute program .
Former lawyer and Mayor of New York Ed Koch was chosen as arbiter , which he  कायम लिये 2 सीज़न इससे the 1997–98 ऋतु through the  1998–99 season ( the present life 's 2nd season and overall show 's 14th ) .
By the 1999–00 season , husband of Judith Sheindlin ( who presides over Judge Judy ) and former  New York State Supreme  Court Judge Jerry Sheindlin succeeded Koch .
Sheindlin lasted one and a half seasons as he was replaced towards the end  of the 2000–01  season ( present life 's 4th season and overall show 's 17th ) .
शुरूआत in वसन्त 2001 , फ्लोरिडा न्यायधीश मर्लिन milian took over the लोगों 's अदालत और रै presided over the दिखाएँ कभी चूंकि .
Once Milian completes the 2012–13 season , she will have served as longest arbiter over the series  साथ 12 और  a half seasons .
As of the present , however , her  सालो on the कार्यक्रम टाई  Wapner at 12 seasons .
In the 2009-10 television season , The People 's Courts 2nd/present life  outlasted इसके पहला जब  it reached 13 seasons .
While  the दिखाएँ taped in नई  York City for the first 15 seasons of its second life , it now tapes in Stamford , Connecticut as of the 2012-13 season .
On September 3 , 2012 , The People 's Court 's 2nd/present life entered its  16th ऋतु ( 28th  overall season ) .
With 28 total seasons ,  the लोगों 's अदालत बाँधने as the  2nd longest-running courtroom program behind the ongoing Divorce Court at 33 seasons ( from its 3 combined lives ) .
Utah ( or ) ( Arapaho :  wo'tééneihí '  ) is a state in the Western United States .
It became the 45th  राज्य  admitted to the Union on January 4 , 1896 .
Utah is the 13th-largest , the 34th-most populous , and the  10th-least-densely  populated of the 50 United States .
Approximately 80 % of Utah 's 2,817,222 people live along the Wasatch Front , centering on Salt Lake City , leaving vast expanses of the state nearly uninhabited and making  the जनसांख्यिकी the छठे सबसे urbanized in  the U.S. Utah is bordered by Colorado on the east , Wyoming on the northeast , Idaho on the north , Arizona on the south , and Nevada on the west .
It  भी छू a कोने  of New Mexico on the southeast .
Utah is the most religiously homogeneous   state in the Union .
Approximately 63 % of Utahns are reported to be members of The Church of Jesus Christ of  latter-day संतो or lds ( mormons ) , जिससे greatly प्रभाव  Utah culture and daily life .
The world headquarters of The Church of  यीशु मसीह of latter-day  Saints ( LDS Church ) is located in Utah 's state capital .
The state is a center of transportation , education , information  प्रौद्योगिकी और शोध  , government services , mining , and a major tourist destination for outdoor recreation .
According to the  u.S. जनसांख्यिकी  Bureau 's population estimates , Utah is the fifth fastest-growing state in the United States as of 2012 .
St. George , was the fastest–growing metropolitan area in the United States  इससे  2000 to 2005 .
A 2012 Gallup national survey found Utah  overall to be the ``  best state to live in '' based on 13 forward-looking measurements including various economic , lifestyle , and health-related outlook metrics .
coldwater  is a small town in Tate County , Mississippi .
It is in the  मेम्फिस महानगर  Area .
The population was  1,674 at  the 2000 census .
The hard palate is a thin horizontal bony plate  of the कपाल , स्तिथ  in the roof of the mouth .
It spans the arch formed by the  अपर दांत  .
It is formed  by the  palatine process of the maxilla and horizontal plate of palatine bone .
It forms a  विभाजन  between the nasal passages and the mouth .
Also on the anterior portion of the roof of the hard palate is the Rugae which are the irregular  ridges in  the mucous membrane that help facilitate the movement of food backwards towards the pharynx .
This partition is continued deeper into the mouth  by a मांसल एक्सटेंशन  called the soft palate .
पूरा नियत  of scrolls , constituting the entire Tanakh .
The Tanakh ( , or ; also Tenakh , Tenak , Tanach ) is a name used in Judaism for the  canon of the यहूदी बाइबल  .
The Tanakh is also known as the  masoretic  Text or the Miqra .
The name is an acronym formed from the initial Hebrew letters of the Masoretic Text 's three traditional subdivisions : The Torah ( `` Teaching '' , also known as the Five Books of Moses ) , Nevi'im ( `` Prophets '' ) and Ketuvim (  ``  Writings '' ) —hence TaNaKh .
The name `` Miqra '' ( מקרא ) , meaning `` that  जिससे is  read '' , is an alternative Hebrew term for the Tanakh .
The books of the Tanakh were relayed with an accompanying oral tradition passed on by each generation ,  पुकारा the मौखिक  Torah .
Sobriety  नाका  in Germany
Driving under the influence ( DUI ) , driving while intoxicated ( DWI ) , drunken driving , drunk driving , drink driving , operating under  the influence , पीने और ड्राइविंग , or impaired ड्राइविंग is the  crime of driving a motor vehicle with blood levels of alcohol in excess of a legal limit ( `` Blood Alcohol Content '' , or `` BAC '' ) .
Similar regulations cover driving or  ऑपरेटिंग निश्चित  types of machinery while affected by drinking alcohol or taking other drugs , including , but not limited to prescription drugs .
This is a  दण्ड  offense in most nations .
Convictions do not  necessarily  involve actual driving of the vehicle .
In most jurisdictions a measurement such as a blood alcohol content  ( bac ) in excess of a विशिष्ट दहलीज  level , such as 0.05 % or 0.08 % defines the offense , with no need to prove impairment or being under the influence of alcohol .
In some jurisdictions , there is  an क्रोधित  category of the offense at a higher level e.g . 0.12 % .
In most countries , anyone who is  convicted of injuring  or killing someone while under the influence of alcohol or drugs can be heavily fined , as in France , in addition to being given a lengthy prison sentence .
Some jobs have their own rules and BAC limits , for example commercial pilot , and the Federal Railroad Administration in the United States has a 0.04 % limit for  ट्रैन क्रू .
Some jurisdictions have  अनेक स्तर of bac ; लिये उदाहरण  , the state of California has a 0.08 % BAC limit , which is lowered to 0.04 % if the operator holds a commercial driver 's license .
The  कैलिफ़ोर्निया bac सीमा is 0.01  % for those younger than 21 years of age and those on probation for a previous DUI conviction .
Some large corporations have their own rules ; Union Pacific Railroad has their own BAC limit of 0.02 % that , if violated during a  यादृच्छिक परीक्षण or a for-cause  test — for example , after a traffic accident — can result in termination of employment with no chance of future re-hire .
Many states in the U.S. and  प्रांतों in कनाडा  have adopted truth in sentencing laws that enforce strict guidelines on sentencing , differing from previous practice where prison time was reduced or suspended after sentencing had been issued .
Some jurisdictions have judicial guidelines  requiring a अनिवार्य  minimum sentence .
Penalties for DUI charges range from expensive fees to forfetiruree of your license  प्लेटों और in कुछ गंभीर  circumstances , your vehicle .
A drunk  ड्राइविंग सिम्युलेटर  in Montréal , Canada
The specific criminal offense may be called , depending on the jurisdiction , driving under the influence [ of alcohol or other drugs ] ( DUI ) , driving under intense influence ( DUII ) , driving while   intoxicated ( DWI ) , operating under the influence ( OUI ) operating while intoxicated ( OWI ) , operating a motor vehicle while intoxicated ( OMVI ) , driving under the combined influence of alcohol and/or other drugs , driving under the influence per se or drunk in charge [ of a vehicle ] .
Many such laws apply also to motorcycling , boating , piloting  वायुयान , उपयोग of motile फार्म उपकरण ऐसे  as tractors and combines , riding horses or driving a horse-drawn vehicle , or bicycling , possibly with different BAC level than driving .
In some jurisdictions there are separate charges depending on the vehicle used , such as BWI ( bicycling while  intoxicated ) , जिससे may carry a हल्का वाक्य  .
In the United States , local law enforcement agencies made 1,467,300 arrests nationwide for driving   under the influence of alcohol in 1996 , compared to 1.9 million such arrests during the peak year in 1983 .
In 1997 an estimated  513,200 dwi अपराधियों यहूद in  prison or jail , down from 593,000 in 1990 and up from 270,100 in 1986 .
Officers  इससे us कस्टम और  Border Protection boarding a ship
Law enforcement in the United States is one of three major components of the criminal justice system of  the  United States , along with courts and corrections .
Although there exists an  अंतर्निहित interrelatedness between  the different groups that make up the criminal justice system based on their crime deterrence purpose , each component operates independently from one another .
However , the judiciary is vested with the power to make legal determinations regarding the conduct  of the अन्य  two components .
Apart from maintaining order and service functions , the purpose of policing is the investigation  of suspected दण्ड कार्यकलाप और the referral of the परिणाम  of investigations and of suspected criminals to the courts .
Law enforcement , to varying degrees at different levels of government and in different agencies , is also commonly charged with the responsibilities of deterring criminal activity and of preventing the  कामयाब आयोग of अपराधों in प्रगति ; the सेवा  and enforcement of warrants , writs and other orders of the courts .
Law enforcement agencies are also involved in providing first response to emergencies and other threats to public safety ; the  सुरक्षा of निश्चित पब्लिक सुविधाएं  and infrastructure ; the maintenance of public order ; the protection of public officials ; and the operation of some correctional facilities ( usually at the local level ) .
Elmer Figueroa Arce ( born June 28 , 1968 ) , best known under the stage name  chayanne , is a प्यूर्टो rican  Latin pop singer and actor .
As a solo artist , Chayanne has released 21 solo albums and sold over 15  लाख  albums worldwide .
`` World War Hulk '' is a comic book crossover storyline that ran through a self  titled सीमित श्रेणी और विभिन्न अन्य शीर्षक प्रकाशित  by Marvel Comics in 2007 , featuring the Hulk .
The series consists of five main issues titled World War Hulk , with Greg Pak as writer and John Romita , Jr. as penciller , and three  अन्य सीमित श्रेणी : संसार  War Hulk : Front Line , World War Hulk : Gamma Corps , and World War Hulk : X-Men .
It also ran through several other Marvel  कॉमिक्स  series .
The plot is the culmination of a series of events that began with the Hulk being tricked into space by the Illuminati and a life model  decoy of  Nick Fury , the Hulk 's subsequent exile seen in Planet Hulk and his imminent return to Earth to seek revenge on the Illuminati .
Marion Mitchell Morrison ( born Marion  रॉबर्ट मॉरिसन ; may 26 , 1907 – जून 11 , 1979 ) ,  better known by his stage name John Wayne , was an American film actor , director and producer .
An Academy Award -winner , Wayne was among the top box office  draws लिये तीन दशकों  , and was named the all-time top money-making star .
An  enduring अमरीकी प्रतीक , he epitomized  rugged masculinity and is famous for his demeanor , including his distinctive calm voice , walk , and height .
Wayne was born in Winterset , Iowa but his family relocated to the greater Los  एंजिल्स  area when he was four years old .
He found work at local film studios when he lost his  फ़ुटबॉल स्कॉलरशिप  to USC as a result of a bodysurfing accident .
Initially working for the Fox Film Corporation , he  ज़्यादातर appeared in छोटी  bit parts .
His first  अग्रणी भूमिका आए in the वाइडस्क्रीन एपिक the  Big Trail ( 1930 ) , which led to leading roles in numerous films throughout the 1930s , many of them in the western genre .
उसके करियर रोज़ to further हाइट्स  in 1939 , with John Ford 's Stagecoach making him an instant superstar .
Wayne  होता go on to स्टार in  142 pictures , primarily typecast in Western films .
Among his best known later films are The Quiet Man ( 1952 ) , which follows him as an Irish-American boxer and his love affair with a fiery spinster played by Maureen O'Hara ; The Searchers ( 1956 ) , in which he plays a Civil War veteran who seeks out his abducted niece ; Rio Bravo ( 1959 ) , playing a Sheriff with Dean Martin ; True Grit ( 1969 ) , playing a humorous U.S . Marshal who sets out to avenge a man 's death in the role that won Wayne an Academy Award ; and The Shootist ( 1976 ) , his final screen performance  in which he plays an aging  gunslinger battling cancer .
Wayne moved to Orange County , California in the 1960s  , और थी a prominent रिपब्लिकन  in Hollywood , supporting anti-communist positions .
He died of  पेट  cancer in 1979 .
In  जून 1999 , the अमरीकी  Film Institute named Wayne 13th among the Greatest Male Screen Legends of All Time .
Galileo Galilei ( ; 15 February   1564 – 8 January 1642 ) , was an Italian physicist , mathematician , astronomer , and philosopher who played a major role in the Scientific Revolution .
His  उपलब्धियाँ शामिल  improvements to the telescope and consequent astronomical observations and support for Copernicanism .
Galileo has been called the `` father of modern observational astronomy `` , the `` father of modern physics  `` , the `` पिता of विज्ञान  '' , and `` the Father of Modern Science '' .
His contributions to observational astronomy include the telescopic confirmation of the phases of Venus , the discovery of the four  largest satellites of बृहस्पति ( नामित the galilean moons in उसके इज्ज़त  ) , and the observation and analysis of sunspots .
Galileo also worked in applied science and technology , inventing an  improved सैन्य  compass and other instruments .
Galileo 's championing of heliocentrism was controversial within his lifetime , when most subscribed to either geocentrism or the  tychonic प्रणाली  .
He met with opposition from astronomers ,  जो doubted  heliocentrism due to the absence of an observed stellar parallax .
The matter was investigated  by the Roman  Inquisition in 1615 , and they concluded that it could be supported as only a possibility , not an established fact .
गैलीलियो बाद  defended his views in Dialogue Concerning the Two Chief World Systems , which appeared to attack Pope Urban VIII and thus alienated him and the Jesuits , who had both supported Galileo up until this point .
He was tried by the  inquisition , मिला `` ओजस्वी  suspect of heresy '' , forced to recant , and spent the rest of his life under house arrest .
It was while Galileo was under house arrest that he wrote one of his finest works , Two New Sciences , in which he summarised the work he had done some forty years earlier , on the two sciences now called  kinematics और शक्ति of सामग्री  .
55 '' LG  oled tv showcased  at CES 2012
प्रोटोटाइप  OLED lighting panel developed by Lumiotec
Demonstration of a flexible OLED  यंत्र
An OLED ( organic light-emitting diode ) is a light-emitting diode ( LED ) in which the emissive  electroluminescent परत is a फिल्मी of सशुल्क  compound which emits light in response to an electric current .
This layer of organic  सेमीकंडक्टर is situated  between two electrodes .
generally , at तनिक  one of these electrodes is transparent .
OLEDs are used to create digital displays in devices such as television  screens , कंप्यूटर  monitors , portable systems such as mobile phones , handheld games consoles and PDAs .
A major area of research is the development of white OLED  डिवाइस लिये उपयोग in  solid-state lighting applications .
There are two main families of  oleds : those  based on small molecules and those employing polymers .
Adding mobile ions to an OLED creates a light-emitting electrochemical cell or LEC , which has a slightly  अलग  mode of operation .
OLED displays can use either  passive-matrix  ( PMOLED ) or active-matrix addressing schemes .
Active-matrix  oleds ( amoled ) आवश्यकता a thin-film ट्रांजिस्टर  backplane to switch each individual pixel on or off , but allow for higher resolution and larger display sizes .
An  oled प्रदर्शक works  without a backlight .
Thus , it can display deep black  स्तर और can be thinner  and lighter than a liquid crystal display ( LCD ) .
in कम परिवेश लाइट शर्तें ऐसे  as a dark room an OLED screen can achieve a higher contrast ratio than an LCD , whether the LCD uses cold cathode fluorescent lamps or LED backlight .
A carton and a glass of eggnog from Montreal , Canada , showing its French facade ( English reverse ) and the French term  लेत de poule ( वस्तुतः  , `` hen 's milk '' )
Eggnog , or egg nog , is a sweetened dairy -based beverage traditionally  बना  with milk and/or cream , sugar , and whipped eggs ( which gives it a frothy texture ) .
Brandy , rum , whisky  , bourbon  , vodka , or a combination of liquors are often added .
The finished serving is  प्रायः garnished साथ  a sprinkling of ground cinnamon or nutmeg .
It was also known as  the अंडा मिल्क  punch .
Eggnog is a popular drink throughout  the संयुक्त राज्य  and Canada , and is usually associated with Christmas .
Eggnog may be added as  a  flavoring to food or drinks such as coffee and tea .
Eggnog as a  कस्टर्ड can  also be used as an ice cream base .
A pasty ( , ) , ( sometimes known in Britain as a Cornish pasty , and in the  संयुक्त राज्य as a pastie or अंग्रेजों pasty ) is  a baked pastry , a traditional variety of which is particularly associated with Cornwall , the westernmost county in England .
It  is बना by रखकर uncooked भरना typically of मांस और  vegetables , without meat in vegetarian versions , on a flat pastry circle and folding it to wrap the filling , crimping the edge to form a seal .
After baking , the result is a raised  semicircular comestible  .
The traditional Cornish pasty , which has Protected Geographical Indication ( PGI ) status in Europe , is filled with beef , sliced or diced potato , swede ( also known as a yellow turnip or rutabaga – referred to in Cornwall as turnip )  और  onion , seasoned with salt and pepper , and is baked .
Today , the pasty is the food most associated with Cornwall , it is regarded as the national dish , and it accounts for  6 % of the  Cornish food economy .
Pasties with many different fillings are made ;  कुछ दुकानें specialise in selling  all sorts of pasties .
The  origins of the pasty हैं unclear  , though there are many references to them throughout historical documents and fiction .
The pasty is now popular world-wide due to the spread of Cornish miners , and variations can be found in Australia , the United  राज्य , मैक्सिको  and elsewhere .
The ( ortho- ) sympathetic nervous system ( SNS ) is one of three major parts of the autonomic nervous system : the others being the enteric and  parasympathetic  systems .
Its general action is  to mobilize the देह  's nervous system fight-or-flight response .
It is , however , constantly active at a basic level to  maintain समस्थापन  .
Secure Digital or ( SD )  is a non-volatile  memory card format for use in portable devices , such as mobile phones , digital cameras , GPS navigation devices , and tablet computers .
The Secure Digital  मानक  is maintained by the SD Card Association ( SDA ) .
SD technologies have been implemented in more than 400 brands across  दर्जनों of उत्पाद  categories and more than 8,000 models .
The Secure Digital format includes four card families available  in  three different form factors .
The four families are the original Standard-Capacity ( SDSC ) , the High-Capacity ( SDHC ) , the   eXtended-Capacity ( SDXC ) , and the SDIO , which combines input/output functions with data storage .
The three form factors are  the असली आकार , the ``  mini '' size , and the `` micro '' size ( see illustration ) .
There are many  combinations of रूप कारकों  and device families .
electrically passive  adapters allow the use of a smaller card in a host device built to hold a larger card .
Host devices that comply with newer versions of the specification provide backward compatibility and accept older SD cards , but this article explains several factors that can prevent the use of a  नए  SD card:
A newer card may offer  वृहद क्षमता  than the host device can handle .
A newer card may use a file system the  मेजबान यंत्र can नहीं  navigate .
Use of an SDIO card requires  the मेजबान यंत्र be designed लिये  the input/output functions the card provides .
The  संगठन of the कार्ड  was changed starting with the SDHC family .
Some vendors produced SDSC cards  ऊपर 1 gb पहले  the SDA had standardized a method of doing so .
The SDA uses  अनेक trademarked  logos to enforce compliance with its specifications and assure users of compatibility .
The following is a List of  आलोचकों of the नई  Deal .
Daniel Lawrence Whitney ( born February 17 , 1963 ) best  ज्ञात by उसके  stage name and character Larry the Cable Guy , is an American stand-up comedian , actor , country music artist , voice actor , and former radio personality .
He was one of the members of  the ब्लू कॉलर कॉमेडी दौरे , a कॉमेडी troupe  which included Bill Engvall , Ron White , and Jeff Foxworthy ( with whom he has starred on Blue Collar TV ) .
Whitney has released seven comedy  एल्बम , of जिससे  three have been certified gold by the RIAA for shipments of 500,000 copies .
In addition , he has starred in three  ब्लू कॉलर कॉमेडी  Tour-related movies , as well as in the films Larry the Cable Guy : Health Inspector , Delta Farce , and Witless Protection , as well as voicing Mater in the Cars franchise .
Whitney 's catchphrase : `` Git-R-Done !  '' is भी the शीर्षक  of his book .
On January 26 , 2010 , the TV channel History announced that it was ordering a series starring Whitney  पुकारा तभी in अमेरिका साथ लैरी the केबल guy  , in which he would explore the country and immerse himself in different lifestyles , jobs , and hobbies .
The first episode of the series  aired on  February 8 , 2011 .
Vitamin D is a group of  fat-soluble secosteroids जिम्मेदार  for intestinal absorption of calcium and phosphate .
In humans ,  the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण सम्बन्धित  compounds of vitamin D are vitamin D2 and vitamin D3 .
Cholecalciferol ( vitamin D3 ) and  ergocalciferol ( विटामिन d2 ) हैं अद्वितीय  as they constitute what we know as vitamin D and can be ingested from the diet and/or supplements .
The body can also synthesize vitamin D ( from  कोलेस्ट्रॉल ) जब सूर्य  exposure is adequate ( hence its nickname , the `` sunshine vitamin '' ) .
Although vitamin D is commonly called a vitamin , it is not actually an essential dietary vitamin in the strict sense , as it can be synthesized  in पर्याप्त amounts  by most mammals exposed to sunlight .
( Cats and dogs can not synthesize  विटामिन  D efficiently and must receive it in their diet . )
An organic chemical compound ( or related set of compounds ) is only scientifically called a vitamin   when it can not be synthesized in sufficient quantities by an organism , and must be obtained from their diet .
However , as with other compounds commonly called vitamins , vitamin D was discovered in an effort to find the dietary substance that was  lacking in a बीमारी , namely , rickets , the  childhood form of osteomalacia .
Additionally , like other compounds called vitamins , in the  विकसित  world vitamin D is added to staple foods , such as milk , to avoid disease due to deficiency .
Measures of serum levels reflect endogenous synthesis from exposure to sunlight as well as   intake from the diet , and it is believed that synthesis may contribute generally to the maintenance of adequate serum concentrations .
The evidence indicates that the synthesis of vitamin D from sun exposure works in a feedback loop that prevents toxicity but , because of uncertainty about the  कर्कट रिस्क इससे धूप , no सुझाव हैं जारी by the  Institute of Medicine , USA , for the amount of sun exposure required to meet vitamin D requirements .
Accordingly , the  dietary सन्दर्भ  Intakes for vitamin D assume that no synthesis occurs and that all of a person 's vitamin D is from their diet , although that will rarely occur in practice .
In the  जिगर विटामिन d is परिवर्तित to calcidiol , जिससे is भी ज्ञात  as calcifediol ( INN ) , 25-hydroxycholecalciferol , or 25-hydroxyvitamin D—abbreviated 25 ( OH ) D ; and which is the specific vitamin D metabolite that is measured in serum to determine a person 's vitamin D status .
भाग of the calcidiol is परिवर्तित by the गुर्दे to calcitriol , the biologically क्रियाशील रूप of विटामिन D. calcitriol circulates as a हार्मोन in the रक्त , regulating the विशेषज्ञता of कैल्सियम और फास्फेट in the bloodstream और promoting the स्वस्थ विकास और remodeling  of bone .
Calcidiol is also converted to calcitriol outside of the kidneys for other purposes , such as the proliferation , differentiation and apoptosis of cells ; calcitriol also affects neuromuscular  फलन और सूजन  .
Beyond its use to prevent osteomalacia or rickets , the evidence for other health effects of vitamin D supplementation in the general population is  असंगत  .
The best evidence of benefit is for bone health and a decrease in mortality in elderly women   .
Standard form  of the आवधिक  table .
The colors represent different categories of elements  समझाया  below .
The  आवधिक तालिका is a table प्रदर्शक  of the chemical elements , organized on the basis of their atomic numbers , electron configurations , and recurring chemical properties .
Elements are presented in order of increasing atomic number (  क्रमांक of protons  ) .
The standard form of table comprises an 18 × 7 grid or main body of elements , positioned above a  छोटी दोगुना पंक्ति  of elements .
The table can also be deconstructed into four  आयताकार ब्लॉक : the s-block  to the left , the p-block to the right , the d-block in the middle , and the f-block below that .
The rows of the table are  पुकारा अवधि ; the  columns of the s- , d- , and p-blocks are called groups , with some of these having names such as the halogens or the noble gases .
Since , by definition , a periodic table incorporates recurring trends , any such table can be used to derive relationships between the properties of the elements and predict the  गुण of नई , yet  to be discovered or synthesized , elements .
As a result , a periodic table—whether in the standard form or some other variant—provides a useful framework for  analyzing रासायनिक बर्ताव , और ऐसे टेबल  are widely used in chemistry and other sciences .
Although precursors exist ,  dmitri mendeleev is generally credited  with the publication , in 1869 , of the first widely recognized periodic table .
He developed his table to  illustrate आवधिक रुझान  in the properties of the then-known elements .
Mendeleev also predicted some properties of then-unknown elements that  होता be अपेक्षित to भरण  gaps in this table .
Most of his predictions were proved correct when the elements in  सवाल यहूद subsequently  discovered .
mendeleev 's आवधिक तालिका रै चूंकि  been expanded and refined with the discovery or synthesis of further new elements and the development of new theoretical models to explain chemical behavior .
All   elements from atomic numbers 1 ( hydrogen ) to 118 ( ununoctium ) have been discovered or synthesized .
The elements from 1 to 98 ( californium ) have been found to exist naturally , although  कुछ हैं मिला तभी in  trace amounts and were initially discovered by synthesis in laboratories .
The  तत्व बाद  98 have only been synthesized in laboratories .
Production of elements beyond ununoctium is being pursued , with the question of how the periodic table may need to be modified to accommodate any such  परिवर्धन होने a पदार्थ  of ongoing debate .
Numerous synthetic radionuclides of naturally occurring elements have also been produced  in laboratories  .
Minimum wage by U.S. state and U.S. territory ( American Samoa , Guam , Puerto Rico  , वर्जिन  Islands ) , as of Jan. 1 , 2013 .
In the United States , workers are generally entitled to  be paid  no less than the statutory minimum wage .
The federal government mandates  a nationwide minimum  wage level of $ 7.25 per hour , while some states and municipalities have set minimum wage levels higher than the federal level , with the highest state minimum wage being $ 9.19 per hour in Washington as of 2013 .
Among those paid by the hour in 2012 , 1.6 million were reported as earning exactly the prevailing federal minimum  मजदूरी  .
About 2.0 million were reported  as कमाई  wages below the minimum .
साथ , ये 3.6 लाख  workers with wages at or below the minimum made up 4.7 percent of all hourly-paid workers .
A selection of Bourbons and  टेनेसी  whiskeys offered at a liquor store in Decatur , Georgia
Evan Williams  bourbon  whiskey
Bourbon whiskey is a type of American whiskey – a barrel-aged  आसुत स्पिरिट बना primarily  from corn .
The name of the spirit derives from its historical association with an area known as Old Bourbon , around what is now Bourbon County , Kentucky ( which , in turn , was named after the French  हाउस of  Bourbon royal family ) .
It has been produced since the 18th  सदी  .
While it may be made anywhere in the United States , it is strongly associated with the American South in general , and Kentucky   in particular .
The Mona Lisa ( La Gioconda or La Joconde ) is a half-length portrait of a woman by the Italian artist Leonardo da Vinci ,  जिससे रै महरूम acclaimed as `` the बेहतरीन ज्ञात , the सबसे visited , the सबसे लिखा परिचय  , the most sung about , the most parodied work of art in the world . ''
The painting ,  विचार to be  a portrait of Lisa Gherardini , the wife of Francesco del Giocondo , is in oil on a poplar panel , and is believed to have been painted between 1503 and 1506 .
It was acquired by  किंग फ्रांसिस i  of France and is now the property of the French Republic , on permanent display at the Musée du Louvre in Paris since 1797 .
the ambiguity of the विषय  's expression , which is frequently described as enigmatic , the monumentality of the composition , the subtle modeling of forms and the atmospheric illusionism were novel qualities that have contributed to the continuing fascination and study of the work .
रॉबर्ट एलन पामर ( 19 जनवरी  1949 – 26 September 2003 ) , was an English singer-songwriter and musician .
He was known for his distinctive voice and the eclectic mix of musical styles on his albums  , combining आत्मा  , jazz , rock , pop , reggae and blues .
He found success both in his solo career and in the musical act The Power Station , and  था शीर्ष 10 गीतों in  both the UK and the US .
His iconic music videos by Terence Donovan for the hits `` Addicted to Love `` and `` Simply Irresistible `` featured identically dressed dancing women with pale faces , dark eye makeup and bright red lipstick , which resembled the women in the art  of पैट्रिक nagel , an कलाकार लोकप्रिय in the  1980s .
Sharp-suited , his involvement in the music industry  commenced in the 1960s , covered पाँच दशकों  and included a spell with Vinegar Joe .
Palmer received a number of awards throughout his career , including two Grammy Awards for Best Male Rock Vocal Performance , an MTV Video Music Award , and was  twice मनोनीत लिये the ब्रिट पुरस्कार  for Best British Male .
Computed tomography  एंजियोग्राफी ( cta ) is a computed  tomography technique used to visualize arterial and venous vessels throughout the body .
This ranges from arteries serving the brain to those bringing blood to the lungs ,  गुर्दे  , arms and legs .
The  champs-élysées सजा  with flags for Bastille Day
Horseman of the  फ्रेंच रिपब्लिकन  Guard during the 2007 military parade on the Champs-Élysées .
Prise de la Bastille by  jean-pierre-louis-laurent  Houel
Bastille Day is the name given in English-speaking  देशों to the  French National Day , which is celebrated on the 14th of July each year .
In  फ़्रांस , it is formally  called La Fête Nationale ( ; The National Celebration ) and commonly Le quatorze juillet ( ; the fourteenth of July ) .
It commemorates the 1790 Fête de la Fédération , held on the first anniversary of the storming of the Bastille on 14 July 1789 ;  the वर्षगांठ of the storming of the bastille fortress-prison थी देखी as a प्रतीक of the uprising  of the modern nation , and of the reconciliation of all the French inside the constitutional monarchy which preceded the First Republic , during the French Revolution .
Festivities and official  ceremonies  are held all over France .
The oldest and largest regular military  परेड in यूरोपीय is आयोजित on the morning of 14 जुलाई , on the champs-élysées  avenue in Paris in front of the President of the Republic , French officials and foreign guests .
The United States of America ( USA or U.S.A. ) , commonly called  the  United States ( US or U.S. ) or America , is a federal republic consisting of fifty states and a federal district .
The lower forty-eight contiguous states and the federal district of  वॉशिंगटन , d.C.  are in central North America between Canada and Mexico .
The state of Alaska is west of Canada and east of Russia across the Bering  जलसन्धि , और the राज्य of हवाई is  in the mid-North Pacific .
The country  भी रै पाँच आबादी  and nine unpopulated territories in the Pacific and the Caribbean .
At 3.79 million square miles ( 9.83 million km2 ) and with around 315 million people , the  संयुक्त राज्य is the third- or fourth-largest देश by  total area and the third-largest by both land area and population .
It is one of the world 's most ethnically  विविध और multicultural  nations , the product of large-scale immigration from many countries .
The geography  और जलवायु of the u.S. is भी  extremely diverse , with deserts , plains , forests , and mountains that are home to a wide variety of species .
Paleoindians  migrated इससे एशिया  to what is now the United States mainland around 15,000 years ago .
After 1500 , Old World diseases introduced by Europeans greatly  घटाया उनके  populations .
European  colonization began around 1600  and came mostly from England .
The United States  उभरा  from thirteen British colonies located along the Atlantic seaboard .
Disputes between Great Britain and the American colonies led to the  अमरीकी क्रान्ति  .
On July 4 , 1776 , delegates from the 13 colonies unanimously issued the Declaration of Independence ,  जिससे स्थापित  the United States of America .
The  अमरीकी क्रांतिकारी युद्ध , जिससे  ended with the recognition of independence of the United States from the Kingdom of Great Britain , was the first successful war of independence against a European colonial empire .
The current Constitution was adopted on September 17 , 1787  ; twenty-seven amendments have चूंकि  been added to the Constitution .
The first ten amendments , collectively named the  विधेयक of अधिकारों , यहूद ratified in 1791 और  guarantee many fundamental civil rights and freedoms .
Driven by the doctrine of manifest  नियति , the  United States embarked on a vigorous expansion across North America throughout the 19th century .
This involved  displacing  native tribes , acquiring new territories , and gradually admitting new states .
The American Civil War ended  legalized गुलामी in the  United States .
By the end of the nineteenth  सदी , the संयुक्त  States extended into the Pacific Ocean , and its economy was the world 's largest .
the spanish–american युद्ध और पुष्टि the देश 's औकात as a वैश्विक सैन्य  power .
The United States emerged from as a global superpower , the first country with nuclear weapons , and a  स्थाई सदस्य of the संयुक्त राष्ट्र सुरक्षा  Council .
The end of the Cold War and the dissolution of the Soviet Union left the  संयुक्त  States as the sole superpower .
The United States is a developed country and has the world 's largest national economy , with an estimated 2012 GDP of $ 15.6 trillion 19 % of global GDP at purchasing-power parity ,   as of 2011 .
The per capita GDP of the U.S. was the world 's sixth-highest as of 2010  , हालांकि अमेरिका  's wealth inequality was also ranked highest among OECD countries by the World Bank .
The economy is fueled by an abundance  of प्राकृतिक संसाधन , a well-developed अवसंरचना , और ऊँची  productivity ; and while its economy is considered post-industrial it continues to be one of the world 's largest manufacturers .
The country accounts for 39 % of global military spending , and is a leading economic , political , and  सांस्कृतिक फ़ोर्स in the संसार , as खूब as a नेता  in scientific research and technological innovation .
The NCAA Men 's Division I Basketball Championship is a single-elimination tournament played each spring in the United States , currently featuring 68 college basketball teams , to determine the national   championship of the major college basketball teams .
The tournament , organized by the National Collegiate Athletic  संघ ( ncaa  ) , was created during 1939 by the National Association of Basketball Coaches , and was the idea of Ohio State University coach Harold Olsen .
Played mostly during March , it is known informally as March Madness or the Big Dance , and has become one of the most famous annual sporting  कार्यक्रम in the संयुक्त  States .
The NCAA has credited Bob Walsh of the Seattle Organizing Committee for starting  the कूच दीवानगी जश्न  during 1984 .
The tournament teams include champions from 31 Division I conferences ( which receive automatic bids ) , and 37 teams which are awarded at-large berths   .
These `` at-large  '' टीमों हैं चुनी  by an NCAA selection committee , as detailed below .
The 64 teams are divided into four regions and organized into a single elimination `` bracket '' , which predetermines , when a team wins a game ,  जिससे टोली it होगा फेस  next .
Each team is ``  seeded '' , or  ranked , within its region .
After an initial four games between eight lower-ranked  टीमों , the टूर्नामेंट occurs  during the course of three weekends , at pre-selected neutral sites around the United States .
Lower-ranked teams are placed   in the bracket against higher ranked teams .
Each weekend  eliminates three-fourths of the टीमों , इससे a गोलाकार of 64 , to  a `` Sweet Sixteen '' , and for the last weekend of the Tournament a Final Four ; the Final Four is usually played during the first weekend of April .
These four teams , one from  प्रत्येक प्रदेश , तब compete  in one location for the national championship .
The tournament  रै महरूम at  least partially televised since 1969 .
Presently , the games are reported by CBS , TBS , TNT , and  trutv by the  trade-name NCAA March Madness .
Since 2011 , all games are available for viewing  देशभर  .
As television coverage has grown , so too has the  टूर्नामेंट 's लोकप्रियता  .
Presently , millions of Americans `` fill out a bracket '' ,  predicting  winners of all 67 games .
With 11 national titles , UCLA has the record for the most NCAA Men  's प्रभाग  I Basketball Championships ; John Wooden coached UCLA to 10 of its 11 titles .
The University of Kentucky is  दूसरी , साथ 8  national titles , while Indiana University and the University of North Carolina are tied for third with 5 national titles .
Duke University ranks  पांचवां साथ 4  national titles .
A  नमूना of  synthetic motor oil
Synthetic oil is a lubricant consisting  of रासायनिक यौगिकों  that are artificially made ( synthesized ) .
Synthetic lubricants can be manufactured using chemically modified petroleum components rather than whole crude oil , but can also be synthesized from other  raw  materials .
सिंथेटिक आयल is प्रयुक्त as a स्थानापन्न लिये स्नेहक परिष्कृत इससे पेट्रोलियम जब ऑपरेटिंग in extremes of तापमान , क्युकी , in सामान्य , it provides श्रेष्ठ mechanical और रासायनिक गुण than those मिला in परंपरागत खनिज oils .
Aircraft jet engines , for example , require the use of  सिंथेटिक  oils , whereas aircraft piston engines do not .
Jackass is an  अमरीकी वास्तविकता  series , originally shown on MTV from 2000 to 2002 , featuring people performing various dangerous , crude self-injuring stunts and pranks .
The show served as a launchpad for the television and acting careers of Bam Margera , Steve-O , and also Johnny Knoxville , who  previously था तभी  a few minor acting roles .
Since 2002 , three Jackass films have been produced and  released by एमटीवी कॉरपोरेट  sibling Paramount Pictures , continuing the franchise after its run on television .
The show sparked several spin-offs including Viva La Bam , Wildboyz , Homewrecker  , dr. steve-o और blastazoid  .
The show placed # 68 on  entertainment  Weekly `` New TV Classics '' list .
Roseanne Cherrie  barr ( born नवम्बर 3 , 1952 ) is an  American actress , comedienne , writer , television producer , director , and 2012 presidential nominee of the California -based Peace and Freedom Party .
Barr  began उसके करियर  in stand-up comedy at clubs before gaining fame for her role in the sitcom Roseanne .
The show was a hit and lasted nine  सीज़न , इससे  1988 to 1997 .
She won both an Emmy and a Golden Globe Award for  बेहतरीन अभिनेत्री लिये उसके  work on the show .
Barr had crafted a `` fierce working-class domestic goddess '' persona in the eight years preceding her sitcom and wanted to do a  यथार्थवादी  show about a strong mother who was not a victim of patriarchal consumerism .
The granddaughter  of  immigrants from Europe and Russia , Barr was the oldest of four children in a working-class Jewish Salt Lake City family ; she was also active in the LDS Church .
In 1974 , she married Bill Pentland ,  साथ जिसको वो था तीन children  , before divorcing in 1990 and marrying comedian Tom Arnold for four years .
विवाद arose जब वो संग `` the  Star-Spangled Banner `` off-key at a 1990 nationally aired baseball game , followed by grabbing her crotch and spitting .
After her sitcom ended , she launched her own  बात दिखाएँ , the roseanne  Show , which aired from 1998 to 2000 .
In 2005 , she returned to stand-up comedy with a world  दौरे .
In 2011 , she starred in an unscripted TV  दिखाएँ , roseanne 's nuts , कि lasted  from July to September of that year , about her life on a Hawaiian farm .
In early 2012 , Barr announced her candidacy for the  अध्यक्षीय  nomination of the Green Party .
Barr lost the  नामांकन to  Jill Stein .
She then sought the presidential nomination of the Peace and   Freedom Party , which she won on August 4 , 2012 .
Barr  प्राप्त 61,971 मत  in the general election , placing sixth overall .
Francesco Albani 's 17th  सदी  Baptism of Christ is a typical depiction with the sky opening and the Holy Spirit descending as a dove .
the बपतिस्मा of यीशु marks the शुरूआत of उसके पब्लिक मंत्रालय  .
This event is recorded in the  canonical gospels  of Matthew , Mark and Luke .
John 's gospel does not describe Jesus ' baptism , but John the  बैपटिस्ट  does testify of the other things in .
In the New Testament , John the Baptist preached the baptism of repentance for the remission of sins ( ) , and declared himself a forerunner  of  he that would baptize `` with the Holy Ghost and with fire '' ( ) .
In so doing he was preparing the way  लिये यीशु  .
Jesus came to  the जॉर्डन नदी  where he was baptized by John .
The baptismal scene includes the heavens opening , a dove-like descent of the  पावन स्पिरिट , और a आवाज़ इससे  heaven saying , `` This is my beloved Son , in whom I am well pleased . ''
Most modern scholars view the fact that Jesus was   baptized by John as an historical event to which a high degree of certainty can be assigned .
Along with the crucifixion of Jesus most scholars view it as one of the two historically certain facts about him , and often use  it as  the starting points for the study of the historical Jesus .
The baptism is one of the five major milestones in the gospel narrative of the life of Jesus , the others  होने the बासीलीक , crucifixion  , Resurrection , and Ascension .
Most Christian denominations view the baptism of Jesus as an  महत्वपूर्ण  event and a basis for the Christian rite of baptism ( see also ) .
In Eastern Christianity , Jesus ' baptism is commemorated on 6  जनवरी  , the feast of Epiphany .
In the Roman  कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर , the  Anglican Communion , the Lutheran Churches and some other Western denominations , it is recalled on a day within the following week , the feast of the baptism of the Lord .
In Roman Catholicism , the baptism of  यीशु is एक of the चमकदार रहस्यों  sometimes added to the Rosary .
It is a Trinitarian feast in the  पूर्वी  Orthodox Churches .
methylcobalamin ( दिखाया  ) is a form of vitamin B12 .
Physically it resembles the other forms of vitamin B12 , occurring as dark red crystals that freely form  cherry-colored पारदर्शी  solutions in water .
Vitamin B12 , vitamin B12 or vitamin B-12 , also called cobalamin , is a water-soluble vitamin with a key role in  the सामान्य  functioning of the brain and nervous system , and for the formation of blood .
It is one of  the आठ  B vitamins .
It is  सामान्यतः शामिल  in the metabolism of every cell of the human body , especially affecting DNA synthesis and regulation , but also fatty acid synthesis and energy production .
Neither  fungi , पौधे  , nor animals are capable of producing vitamin B12 .
Only bacteria and archaea have the enzymes  जरूरी लिये इसके संश्लेषण  , although many foods are a natural source of B12 because of bacterial symbiosis .
The vitamin is  the largest और सबसे structurally  complicated vitamin and can be produced industrially only through bacterial fermentation-synthesis .
Vitamin B12 consists of a class of chemically related compounds ( vitamers ) , all of  जिससे have  vitamin activity .
It contains  the  biochemically rare element cobalt .
Biosynthesis of the basic structure of the vitamin is accomplished only by bacteria ( which usually produce  hydroxocobalamin ) , लकिन परिवर्तन  between different forms of the vitamin can be accomplished in the human body .
A common semi-synthetic form of the vitamin ,  cyanocobalamin , करता  not occur in nature , but is produced from bacterial hydroxocobalamin and then used in many pharmaceuticals and supplements , and as a food additive , because of its stability and lower production cost .
In the body it is converted to the human  physiological फ़ॉर्म  methylcobalamin and adenosylcobalamin , leaving behind the cyanide , albeit in minimal concentration .
More recently , hydroxocobalamin , methylcobalamin , and adenosylcobalamin can be found in more expensive  pharmacological उत्पाद और  food supplements .
The  अतिरिक्त  utility of these is currently debated .
Vitamin B12 was  खोजा इससे  its relationship to the disease pernicious anemia , which is an autoimmune disease in which parietal cells of the stomach responsible for secreting intrinsic factor are destroyed .
Intrinsic factor is crucial for the normal absorption of B12 , so a lack of intrinsic factor , as seen in  घातक रक्ताल्पता , कल्याणकारी  a vitamin B12 deficiency .
Many other subtler kinds of vitamin B12 deficiency and their biochemical   effects have since been elucidated .
Full Metal Jacket  is a  1987 war film produced , directed and co-written by Stanley Kubrick .
It is an adaptation of Gustav Hasford 's 1979 novel The Short-Timers and stars Matthew Modine , Vincent D'Onofrio  , R. ली ermey , arliss हावर्ड  , and Adam Baldwin .
The film follows a platoon of U.S. Marines through their  प्रशिक्षण और the अनुभवों of  two of the platoon 's Marines in the Tet Offensive during the Vietnam War .
The film 's title refers to the full metal jacket bullet used by  infantry  riflemen .
The  फिल्मी प्राप्त  critical acclaim .
It received an Academy Award nomination for Best Adapted Screenplay for  kubrick , माइकल हेर और  Gustav Hasford .
In 2001 , the American Film Institute placed Full Metal Jacket at # 95 in their `` AFI 's  100 सालो ... 100  Thrills `` poll .
TMZ is a celebrity news  जालस्थल कि  debuted on November 8 , 2005 .
It was a collaboration between AOL and  telepictures प्रोडक्शन्स , a  division of Warner Bros. , until Time Warner divested AOL in 2009 .
However , it remained  संबद्ध साथ एओएल न्यूज और  has the AOL News logo affixed in the upper right corner .
The name TMZ stands for the  ऐतिहासिक `` स्टुडियो मण्डल `` or 30-mile  zone radius from the intersection of West Beverly Boulevard and North La Cienega Boulevard in Los Angeles .
TMZ 's  मैनेजिंग एडिटर  is Harvey Levin , a lawyer-turned-journalist who was previously a legal expert for the Los Angeles television station KCBS-TV .
The site  दावा कि it करता नहीं अदा लिये कहानियां or  interviews ; however , Levin has admitted that TMZ does `` sometimes pay sources for leads on stories '' .
Levin has stated that `` everything is researched  और vetted लिये सटीकता  . ''
A companion  tv श्रेणी , tmz on  TV , debuted on September 10 , 2007 .
Scream 3 is a 2000 American slasher film created by Kevin Williamson ,  निर्देशित by वेस craven और लिखा by ehren क्रूगर  , starring Neve Campbell , Courteney Cox Arquette and David Arquette .
It was released on February 4 , 2000 as the third installment in the  चीख फिल्मी  series .
The events of the story are set three years after those of Scream 2 and follows Sidney Prescott ( Campbell ) who has gone  into self-imposed अलगाव following  the events of the previous two films but is drawn to Hollywood after a new Ghostface begins killing the cast of the film within a film `` Stab 3 '' .
Scream 3  combines the हिंसा of  the slasher genre with comedy and `` whodunit `` mystery while satirizing the cliché of film trilogies .
Unlike the previous Scream  films , वहीँ थी an increased जोर  on comedic elements and the violence and horror was reduced in response to increased public scrutiny about violence in media following the Columbine High School massacre .
The  फिल्मी थी the concluding  chapter of the Scream series until it was revived with a sequel , Scream 4 , in 2011 .
Williamson provided a five-page outline  लिये दो सिक्वेल to  Scream when auctioning his original script , hoping to entice bidders with the potential of buying a franchise .
Williamson 's commitments to other projects meant he was unable to develop a complete script for Scream 3 and writing duties were undertaken by Ehren Kruger who discarded  much of विलियमसन 's टीप  .
Craven and Marco Beltrami returned to direct and score  the  film respectively as they had with the previous two series entries .
Production was troubled with script   rewrites , with pages sometimes only ready on the day of filming , and scheduling difficulties with the main cast .
Scream 3 performed both financially and critically worse than its preceding films , earning over $ 161 million and with many critics claiming that the film had become what Scream originally  `` spoofed ``  .
Despite negative criticism the film did receive praise with reviewers calling it the perfect end to the  चीख त्रयी  .
as of 2012 , the फिल्मी is फिलहाल the क्रमांक 3 highest-grossing slasher-film in उत्तर अमेरिका , following चीख at क्रमांक 1 और चीख 2 at क्रमांक 2 .
The  फिल्मी 's साउंडट्रैक  was well-received , spending fourteen weeks on the Billboard 200 and reaching a high of # 32 .
Shoulder impingement syndrome , also called painful arc syndrome , supraspinatus syndrome  , तैराक 's कंधे , और thrower 's कंधे , is a नैदानिक सिंड्रोम जिससे occurs जब the tendons  of the rotator cuff muscles become irritated and inflamed as they pass through the subacromial space , the passage beneath the acromion .
This can result in pain , weakness and loss of movement at the  कंधे .
JLA was a  मासिक कॉमिक किताब  published by DC Comics from January 1997 to April 2006 featuring the Justice League .
The colonial  इतिहास of the संयुक्त राज्य कवर  the history of European settlements from the start of colonization of America until their incorporation into the United States .
In the  लेट 16th सदी  , England , France , Spain and the Netherlands launched major colonization programs in eastern North America .
Small early attempts—such as the English Lost Colony of Roanoke —often disappeared ; everywhere the death rate of the  पहला  arrivals was very high .
Nevertheless successful   colonies were established .
European settlers came from a variety of  सोशल और धार्मिक  groups .
No  aristocrats settled  permanently , but a number of adventurers , soldiers , farmers , and tradesmen arrived .
Diversity was an American characteristic as the Dutch of  नई netherland , the swedes और finns of  New Sweden , the English Quakers of Pennsylvania , the English Puritans of New England , the English settlers of Jamestown , and the `` worthy poor '' of Georgia , came to the new continent and built colonies with distinctive social , religious , political and economic styles .
Occasionally one colony took  कंट्रोल of another ( दौरान  wars between their European parents ) .
Only in Nova Scotia ( now part  of  Canada ) did the conquerors expel the previous colonists .
Instead they all lived side by side in  सलाम  .
There were no major civil wars among the 13 colonies , and the two chief armed rebellions ( in Virginia in 1676 and in New York in 1689–91 )  were  short-lived failures .
Wars between the French and the British—the French and Indian Wars and Father Rale 's War —were recurrent , and involved French-support for Wabanaki  confederacy हमले  on the frontiers .
By 1760 France was  पराजित और the अंग्रेजों जब्त  its colonies .
The four distinct regions were : New England , the Middle Colonies , the Chesapeake Bay Colonies ( Upper South )  और the निम्नतर दक्षिण  .
कुछ इतिहासकारों add a पांचवां प्रदेश , the frontier , जिससे थी never separately व्यवस्थित .
By the time European settlers arrived around 1600–1650 , the majority of the Native Americans living in the eastern United States had been decimated  by नई रोगों , introduced to उन्हें  decades before by explorers and sailors .
See timeline of  औपनिवेशिक  America for list of historical events .
Gloria Laura Vanderbilt ( born February 20 , 1924 ) is an American artist ,  लेखक , अभिनेत्री , heiress , और  socialite most noted as an early developer of designer blue jeans .
She is a member of the prominent  वेंडरबिल्ट परिवार of नई यॉर्क और  the mother of CNN 's Anderson Cooper .
Greece ( Romanization of Greek| ) , officially the  हैलेनिक गणतंत्र  ( ' ) , is a country in Southeast Europe .
According to the 2011 census  , यूनानियों  's population is around 11 million .
Athens is the nation 's capital and largest city , its urban area also  सहित  Piraeus .
Greece is strategically located at the crossroads of Europe , Asia , the Middle East , and Africa , and has land borders with Albania , the Republic of Macedonia and Bulgaria to the north  , और तुर्कों to the पूर्वोत्तर  .
The Aegean Sea lies   to the east of mainland Greece , the Ionian Sea to the west , and the Mediterranean Sea to the south .
Greece has the 11th longest coastline in the world at in length , featuring  a विशाल क्रमांक of आइलैंड्स ( लगभग  1,400 , of which 227 are inhabited ) , including Crete , the Dodecanese , the Cyclades , and the Ionian Islands among others .
Eighty percent of Greece consists of mountains , of which Mount  ओलम्पस  is the highest at .
Modern Greece traces its roots to the civilization of Ancient Greece , generally  माना the पालना of पश्चिमी सभ्यता  .
As such , it is the birthplace of democracy , Western philosophy , the Olympic Games , Western literature and  historiography , राजनैतिक विज्ञान , प्रमुख वैज्ञानिक  and mathematical principles , and Western drama , including both tragedy and comedy .
This legacy is partly reflected in the seventeen UNESCO World Heritage  साइट स्तिथ in यूनानियों , रैंकिंग it 7th  in Europe and 13th in the world .
The modern Greek state  थी  established in 1830 , following the Greek War of Independence .
Greece is a founding member of the United Nations , has been a member of what is now the European  संघ चूंकि 1981 ( और the eurozone चूंकि 2001 )  , and has been a member of NATO since 1952 .
Greece is a developed country with an advanced , high-income economy and  बहुत ऊँची मानकों of जीना  , including the world 's 21st highest quality of life as of 2010 .
Greece 's  अर्थव्यवस्था is भी the largest  in the Balkans , where Greece is an important regional investor .
A prime meridian is a  मध्याह्न , i.e . a  line of longitude , at which longitude is defined to be 0° .
A  प्रधान मध्याह्न  and its opposite in a 360°-system , the 180th meridian ( at 180° longitude ) , form a great circle .
This great circle   divides the sphere , e.g . the Earth , into two hemispheres .
If one uses directions of East and West from a defined prime meridian , then they  can be पुकारा पूर्वी गोलार्ध और पश्चिमी  Hemisphere .
Gerardus Mercator in his Atlas Cosmographicae ( 1595 ) uses a prime meridian somewhere close to 25°W , passing just to the west of Santa Maria  द्वीप in  the Atlantic .
His 180th meridian runs along the  जलसन्धि  of Anián ( Bering Strait )
A prime meridian is ultimately arbitrary , unlike an equator , which is determined by the axis of rotation—and various conventions have been used or advocated in different regions and  throughout  history .
Minka  dumont केली  ( born Minka Dumont Dufay ; June 24 , 1980 ) is an American actress .
She is perhaps best known for her roles in Charlie  's  Angels , Friday Night Lights , and The Roommate .
R.O.B . ( Robotic Operating Buddy ) , released in Japan as the ,  is an accessory  for the Nintendo Entertainment System ( NES ) .
It was  released in  July 1985 in Japan and later that year in North America .
It had a short product lifespan , with support for only two games which comprised the ``  रोबोट श्रेणी '' ; gyromite और stack-up  .
R.O.B . was released with the intention of portraying the Nintendo Entertainment System as something novel in order to alleviate retail fears  following the video game  crash of 1983 .
R.O.B . was available in the Deluxe Set , a configuration for the console that included ,  among अन्य  things , R.O.B . and Gyromite .
stack-up थी खरीदा  separately and included its own physical game pieces .
The Walking Liberty half dollar was a silver 50-cent piece or half dollar coin issued by the United States Mint from 1916   to 1947 ; it was designed by Adolph A. Weinman .
In 1915 , the new Mint Director , Robert W. Woolley , came to believe  कि he थी नहीं तभी अनुमत  but required by law to replace coin designs that had been in use for 25 years .
He therefore began the process of  replacing the नाई coinage : dimes , quarters  and half dollars , all bearing similar designs by long-time Mint Engraver Charles E. Barber , and first struck in 1892 .
Woolley had the Commission of Fine Arts conduct a competition , as a result of which Weinman was  चयनित to डिज़ाइन the dime  and half dollar .
Weinman 's design of Liberty striding towards the Sun for the half dollar proved difficult to perfect , and Treasury Secretary William G. McAdoo , whose department included the Mint , considered  having  Barber create his own design .
Mint officials were successful in getting Weinman 's design into production , although it never struck  बहुत खूब , जिससे may have महरूम a फ़ैक्टर in इसके बदलना  by the Franklin half dollar beginning in 1948 .
Nevertheless , art historian Cornelius Vermeule considered the piece to be among the most  खूबसूरत us सिक्के  .
चूंकि 1986 , a परिवर्धन  of Weinman 's obverse design has been used for the American Silver Eagle .
The Toyota 4Runner is a mid-size sport utility vehicle ( SUV )  उत्पादित by the जापानी निर्माता  Toyota and sold throughout the world from 1984 to present .
In Japan it was known as the Toyota Hilux  लहरे  .
The original 4Runner was a compact SUV and little more than a Toyota pickup truck with a fiberglass shell over the bed , but the model has since  undergone  significant independent development into a cross between a compact and a mid-size SUV .
All 4Runners have been  निर्मित at टोयोटा 's tahara संयंत्र  in Tahara , Aichi , Japan , or at Hino Motors ' Hamura , Japan plant , and in Brazil .
Its mid-size crossover SUV  बंटवारा  is the Toyota Highlander .
This  आलेख सौदे साथ आयुर्विज्ञान  as practiced by trained professionals from ancient times to the present .
The ancient Egyptians had a system of medicine that was very advanced for its time and  बहकावे  later medical traditions .
The Egyptians and  babylonians दोनो introduced  the concepts of diagnosis , prognosis , and medical examination .
The Greeks went even further , and advanced as well  चिकित्सा आचार  .
The Hippocratic Oath , still taken by doctors today , was written in  यूनानियों in the  5th century BCE .
In the medieval era , surgical practices inherited from the ancient masters were improved and then systematized in Rogerius 's The  अभ्यास of सर्जरी .
Universities  began व्यवस्थित प्रशिक्षण  of physicians around the years 1220 in Italy .
During the  पुनर्जागरण , समझना  of anatomy improved , and the microscope was invented .
The  रोगाणु सिद्धान्त of बीमारी  in the 19th century led to cures for many infectious diseases .
Military doctors advanced the methods of trauma treatment  और सर्जरी  .
Public health measures were developed especially in the 19th  सदी  as the rapid growth of cities required systematic sanitary measures .
Advanced research centers opened in the early 20th century , often connected with  प्रमुख अस्पताल  .
The mid-20th century was characterized by new biological treatments , such  as एंटीबायोटिक  .
These advancements , along with developments in chemistry  , आनुवंशिकी , और lab प्रौद्योगिकी ( ऐसे as the  x-ray ) led to modern medicine .
Medicine was heavily professionalized in the 20th century , and new careers opened to women as nurses ( from  the 1870s ) और as physicians ( विशेषकर बाद 1970  ) .
The 21st century is characterized by very  उन्नत शोध  involving numerous fields of science .
The Hippocratic  कॉर्पस , is a संग्रहण of  early medical works from ancient Greece strongly associated with the ancient Greek physician Hippocrates and his teachings .
Potassium is a chemical element with symbol K ( from Neo-Latin kalium ) and  परमाणु क्रमांक  19 .
Elemental potassium is a soft silvery-white  क्षारीय मेटल कि  oxidizes rapidly in air and is very reactive with water , generating sufficient heat to ignite the hydrogen emitted in the reaction and burning with a lilac flame .
Because potassium and sodium are  chemically  very similar , their salts were not at first differentiated .
The existence of multiple elements in their salts was suspected from 1702 , and this was proven in 1807 when potassium and sodium were individually isolated from  अलग लवण  by electrolysis .
Potassium in nature occurs only in  ionic लवण  .
As such , it is found dissolved in seawater  ( जिससे is 0.04 % पोटैशियम by वज़न  ) , and is part of many minerals .
Most industrial  रासायनिक अनुप्रयोग of पोटैशियम employ the अपेक्षाकृत ऊँची घुलनशीलता in जल of पोटैशियम यौगिकों , ऐसे as पोटैशियम soaps .
Potassium metal has only a few special applications , being replaced in most  रासायनिक प्रतिक्रियाएँ साथ सोडियम मेटल  .
Potassium ions are necessary for the  फलन of  all living cells .
Potassium ion diffusion is a key mechanism in nerve transmission , and potassium  depletion in पशु , सहित इंसानो , परिणाम  in various cardiac dysfunctions .
Potassium accumulates in plant cells , and thus fresh fruits and vegetables  are a  good dietary source of it .
Conversely , most plants except specialist halophytes are intolerant of salt , and sodium is  उपस्थित  in them only in low concentration .
This resulted in  पोटैशियम  first being isolated from potash , the ashes of plants , giving the element its name .
For the same reason , heavy crop production rapidly depletes soils of potassium , and  agricultural fertilizers  consume 95 % of global potassium chemical production .
The Singapore dollar or dollar ( sign : $ ; code : SGD ) is the official  करेंसी of सिंगापुर  .
It is  सामान्यतः  abbreviated with the dollar sign $ , or alternatively S $ to distinguish it from other dollar -denominated currencies .
It is divided  into  100 cents .
The Monetary Authority of Singapore and the Brunei Currency and Monetary  फलक स्टिल maintain  the historic exchangeability of their two currencies , the Singaporean dollar and the Brunei dollar , respectively .
The dollar is accepted as `` customary tender '' in Brunei according to the  करेंसी interchangeability अनुबंध  .
Likewise , the Brunei dollar is  customarily  accepted in Singapore
James Samuel Coleman ( May 12 , 1926 – March 25 , 1995 ) was an American  समाजशास्त्री , theorist  and empirical researcher , based chiefly at the University of Chicago .
He was elected president of the  अमरीकी  Sociological Association .
Coleman studied the sociology of education , public policy , and was one of  the earliest उपयोक्ता  of the term `` social capital `` .
His Foundations of Social Theory influenced  समाजशास्त्रीय  theory .
His The Adolescent Society (  1961  ) and `` Coleman Report '' ( Equality of Educational Opportunity , 1966 ) were two of the most heavily cited books in educational sociology .
The landmark Coleman Report helped transform educational theory , reshape national education policies , and influenced public and  scholarly राय regarding the भूमिका of schooling in determining समता  and productivity in the United States .
Superman ( from DC comics ) was the  पहला सुपरहीरो  created , art by Jim Lee .
A superhero ( sometimes rendered super-hero or  सुपर नायिका  ) is a type of stock character possessing `` extraordinary or superhuman powers '' and dedicated to protecting the public .
Since the debut of the prototypical superhero Superman in 1938 , stories of superheroes—ranging from  ब्रैड episodic adventures to continuing years-long  sagas—have dominated American comic books and crossed over into other media .
The word itself  तिथियाँ to at  least 1917 .
A  मादा सुपरहीरो is  sometimes called a superheroine ( also rendered super-heroine or super heroine ) .
`` SUPER HEROES '' is a trademark co-owned by DC  कॉमिक्स और आश्चर्य  Comics .
By most definitions , characters do not strictly require actual superhuman powers to be deemed   superheroes , although terms such as costumed crime fighters or masked vigilantes are sometimes used to refer to those such as Batman and Green Arrow without such powers who share other common superhero traits .
Such characters were generally referred to as `` mystery men '' in the so-called Golden  आयु of कॉमिक किताबे to फर्क उन्हें इससे  characters with super-powers .
Normally , superheroes use their powers to counter  day-to-day अपराधों जबकि  also combating threats against humanity by supervillains , their criminal counterparts .
Often , one of these  supervillains होगा  be the superhero 's archenemy .
As well , some longrunning  superheroes , ऐसे as सुपरमैन ,  Batman , Spider-Man and Iron Man each has a rogues gallery of enemies .
As well , superheroes sometimes will combat such irregular threats as aliens , magical/ fantasy entities , American war enemies such as  नात्सीवाद or साम्यवादी  , and godlike or demonic creatures .
The  following  is a historical list of actors and primary character roles which appear on the American soap opera One Life to Live .
The Shawshank Redemption is  a 1994  American drama film written and directed by Frank Darabont and starring Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman .
Adapted from the Stephen King novella Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption  , the फिल्मी tells the स्टोरी  of Andy Dufresne , a banker who spends nearly two decades in Shawshank State Prison for the murder of his wife and her lover despite his claims of innocence .
During his time at the prison , he befriends a fellow inmate , Ellis Boyd `` Red '' Redding , and finds himself protected by the guards after the  वार्डन begins using उसे  in his money laundering operation .
Despite a lukewarm box office reception that barely recouped its budget , the film  प्राप्त अनुकूल समीक्षाएँ इससे आलोचकों , अनेक पुरस्कार nominations  , and has since enjoyed a remarkable life on cable television , VHS , DVD , and Blu-ray .
It was included in the American Film Institute 's 100 Years ... 100 Movies  10th  Anniversary Edition .
IT management is the discipline whereby all of the technology resources of a firm are managed  in accordance  with its needs and priorities .
These resources may include tangible investments like computer hardware , software , data , networks and data centre  सुविधाएं , as खूब as the staffs जो हैं नियुक्त to maintain  them .
Managing this responsibility within a company entails many of the basic management functions , like budgeting , staffing , and organizing  और controlling , साथ  with other aspects that are unique to technology , like change management , software design , network planning , tech support etc .
the penitentiary of नई मैक्सिको  Prison Riot , which took place on February 2 and 3 , 1980 , in the state 's maximum security prison south of Santa Fe , was one of the most violent prison riots in the history of the American correctional system : 33 inmates died and more than 200 inmates were treated for injuries .
None of the 12 officers taken hostage were killed , but seven were treated for  चोटों caused  by beatings and rapes .
This was  the तीसरा प्रमुख riot  at the NM State Penitentiary , the first occurring on 19 July 1922 and the second on 15 June 1953 .
Author Roger Morris suggests the death toll may have been higher , as a number of bodies were incinerated or  dismembered दौरान the कोर्स of the  mayhem .
`` Red  कार्डिनल  '' redirects here .
For the plant Erythrina herbacea , see   Coral Bean .
The Northern Cardinal (  cardinalis cardinalis ) is a उत्तर  American bird in the genus Cardinalis ; it is also known colloquially as the redbird or common cardinal .
It can be  मिला in दक्षिणी कनाडा  , through the eastern United States from Maine to Texas and south through Mexico .
It is  मिला in वुडलैंड्स  , gardens , shrublands , and swamps .
The Northern  कार्डिनल  is a mid-sized songbird with a body length of 21 centimeters ( 8.3 inches ) .
It has a distinctive crest on the  सिर और a मुखौटा on the फेस  which is black in the male and gray in the female .
The male is a vibrant red , while the female is a dull  red-brown  shade .
The Northern Cardinal is mainly granivorous ,  लकिन भी फ़ीड्स on कीट और फल  .
The male  behaves territorially  , marking out his territory with song .
During courtship , the  पुरूष  feeds seed to the female beak-to-beak .
A clutch of three to four eggs is laid , and two to  चार चंगुल हैं उत्पादित प्रत्येक  year .
It was once prized as a pet , but its sale  as cage  birds is now banned in the United States by the Migratory Bird Treaty Act of 1918 .
Surface runoff , also  पुकारा nonpoint  source pollution , from a farm field in Iowa during a rain storm .
Topsoil as well as farm fertilizers and other potential pollutants run off   unprotected farm fields when heavy rains occur .
Topsoil is the  अपर , outermost  layer of soil , usually the top to .
It has the highest concentration of organic matter and  microorganisms और is  where most of the Earth 's biological soil activity occurs .
musical  cryptogram : `` Aschbeg '' set in Schoenberg 's Sechs kleine Klavierstücke , Op . 19 , no . 1 , m. 5 .
Note that the notes do not come in spelling order but are all adjacent ( not separated by other notes  )  .
Sechs kleine Klavierstücke , Op . 19 ( or Six Little Piano  टुकड़े ) is a नियत of टुकड़े लिये  solo piano written by the Austrian composer Arnold Schoenberg , published in 1913 .
McAfee , Inc. ( ) is an American global computer security software company headquartered in Santa Clara , California , and the world 's largest dedicated  सुरक्षा प्रौद्योगिकी कम्पनी  .
As of February 28 ,  2011 , मैक्एफ़ी is a wholly स्वामित्व  subsidiary of Intel .
McAfee 's competitors in the antivirus industry are Avira , BitDefender , BullGuard ,  f-secure , frisk , kaspersky ,  Symantec , and Trend Micro to name a few .
संत रीता of cascia ( born margherita lotti 1381 - may 22 , 1457 ) थी an इतालवी augustinian नन , विधवा और संत venerated in the रोमन कैथोलिक  Church .
Rita was  शादीशुदा  at an early age .
The marriage lasted for 18 years , during which she is remembered for her Christian values as a model wife and mother who made  प्रयत्न to बदलें उसके husband इससे उसके गाली बर्ताव  .
Upon the murder of her husband by another feuding family , she  sought to dissuade उसके बेटे  from revenge .
She subsequently joined an Augustinian community of religious sisters , where she was known for practicing mortification of the flesh , along with the apparent efficacy of her  प्रार्थनाएं  .
St. Rita is venerated due to various miracles attributed to her intercession , and is often portrayed with a bleeding wound on her  माथे , जिससे the रोमन कैथोलिक  Church claims to have been a partial stigmata .
The Roman Catholic Church , under the pontificate of Pope Leo XIII officially canonized Rita on May 24 , 1900 ,  जबकि उसके feast दिन  is celebrated every May 22 .
In many pious Catholic countries , Rita is known to be a patroness for  abused पत्नियां  and mourning women .
North America is a continent wholly within  the  Northern Hemisphere and almost wholly within the Western Hemisphere .
It is also considered a northern  उपमहाद्वीप  of the Americas .
It is bordered to the north by the Arctic Ocean , to the east by the Atlantic Ocean , to the west and  दक्षिण  by the Pacific Ocean , and to the southeast by South America and the Caribbean Sea .
North America  कवर an क्षेत्रफल of परिचय 24,709,000 वर्गाकार  kilometers ( 9,540,000 square miles ) , about 4.8 % of the planet 's surface or about 16.5 % of its land area .
As of  जुलाई 2008 , इसके जनसांख्यिकी थी अनुमानित at nearly 529  million people across 23 independent states , representing about 7.5 % of the human population .
North America is the third-largest continent in area , following Asia and Africa , and the fourth  in जनसांख्यिकी बाद एशिया  , Africa , and Europe .
The first people to live in North America were Paleoindians who began to arrive  दौरान the पिछला glacial  period by crossing the Bering land bridge .
They differentiated into a number of diverse  संस्कृतियों और समुदायों  across the continent .
the largest और  most advanced Pre-Columbian civilizations in North America were the Aztecs in what is now Mexico and the Mayans in Central America .
European colonists began to arrive starting in the 16th and 17th centuries  ,  wiping out large numbers of the native populations and beginning an era of European dominance .
Jermaine Lamarr Cole ( born January 28 , 1985 ) , better known by his stage name J. Cole , is an American hip-hop recording artist and record producer from   Fayetteville , North Carolina .
In 2009 , he  became the पहला  artist to sign to Jay-Z 's Roc Nation label .
His long-awaited debut album , entitled Cole World : The Sideline Story ,  थी released  on September 27 , 2011 .
The album debuted at number one on the US Billboard 200 , Top R & B Albums and Top Rap Albums chart , selling more than 218,000 in its  पहला  week .
He received a nomination for Best New Artist at the 54th Grammy  पुरस्कार  .
The two main characters of the series , Ratchet ( right ) and  clank  ( left ) .
Ratchet &  clank is  a series of platform video games .
The franchise was created and developed by Insomniac Games and published by Sony Computer Entertainment for many different PlayStation consoles , such as PlayStation 2 and PlayStation 3 with the exclusion of Size Matters and Secret Agent Clank , which were  विकसित  by High Impact Games for the PlayStation Portable .
Every game in  the श्रेणी  has been released for every console , as the IP is owned by Sony Computer Entertainment .
An animated feature film adaptation produced by Rainmaker Entertainment and Blockade Entertainment is scheduled for a theatrical   release sometime in 2015 .
The games take place in a science fiction setting and follow the adventures  of ratchet ( an animalistic human-like अक्षर  known as a Lombax , who is a mechanic ) and Clank ( a diminutive , sentient robot ) as they travel through the universe , saving it from evil forces on a regular basis .
The series is noted for the inclusion of many exotic and unique , over  the शीर्ष हथियार  and devices , a concept that Insomniac Games also expanded into their other games .
A will or testament is a  विधिक घोषणा by जिससे a व्यक्ति  , the testator , names one or more persons to manage his/her estate and provides for the transfer of his property at death .
For the devolution of property not disposed of by will , see inheritance  और  intestacy .
In the strictest sense , a `` will '' has historically been limited to real property while `` testament '' applies only to dispositions of personal  प्रॉपर्टी ( यूँ giving वृद्धि to the लोकप्रिय शीर्षक of the दस्तावेज़ as `` पिछला होगा  and Testament '' ) , though this distinction is seldom observed today .
A will may also  बनाएँ a testamentary विश्वास  that is effective only after the death of the testator .
The 19.9 MW Gemasolar solar plant in Spain  सुविधाएँ 15 घंटों of भंडार और can  supply power 24 hours a day .
Solar energy , radiant light  और ऊष्मा इससे the सूर्य , रै  been harnessed by humans since ancient times using a range of ever-evolving technologies .
Solar energy technologies include solar heating , solar photovoltaics , solar thermal electricity , solar architecture and artificial photosynthesis ,  जिससे can मेक considerable योगदान  to solving some of the most urgent energy problems the world now faces .
Solar technologies are broadly  characterized as either  passive solar or active solar depending on the way they capture , convert and distribute solar energy .
Active solar techniques  शामिल the  use of photovoltaic panels and solar thermal collectors to harness the energy .
Passive solar techniques include orienting a building to the Sun , selecting materials with  अनुकूल  thermal mass or light dispersing properties , and designing spaces that naturally circulate air .
In 2011 , the International Energy Agency said that `` the development of affordable , inexhaustible and clean solar energy technologies  होगा have विशाल longer-term लाभ  .
It will increase countries’ energy security through reliance on an indigenous , inexhaustible and mostly import-independent  संसाधन , बढ़ाएँ स्थिरता , reduce प्रदूषण , निम्नतर the लागत  of mitigating climate change , and keep fossil fuel prices lower than otherwise .
These  लाभ  are global .
Hence the additional costs of the incentives for early deployment should be considered learning  निवेश ;  they must be wisely spent and need to be widely shared '' .
Sir Thomas More ( ; 7 February 14786 July 1535 ) , known to Roman  catholics as संत थामस अधिक चूंकि 1935 , थी an अंग्रेज़ी वकील ,  social philosopher , author , statesman , and noted Renaissance humanist .
He was an important councillor to Henry VIII of England and was Lord Chancellor from  अक्तूबर 1529  to 16 May 1532 .
He was canonized by Pope Pius XI in 1935 as one of the early martyrs of the schism that separated the  गिरिजाघर  of England from Rome in the 16th century .
In 2000 , Pope John Paul  ii घोषित उसे  patron of Catholic statesmen and politicians .
More was an opponent of the Protestant Reformation , in  particular of मार्टिन लूथर और विलियम  Tyndale .
However , since 1980 , he is also commemorated by the  गिरिजाघर of इंग्लैण्ड as a reformation  martyr .
More coined the word ``  यूटोपिया `` – a नाम he दिया to  the ideal and imaginary island nation , the political system of which he described in Utopia , published in 1516 .
He opposed the  किंग 's विरह इससे  the Roman Catholic Church and refused to accept him as Supreme Head of the Church of England , a title which had been given by parliament through the Act of Supremacy of 1534 .
He was imprisoned in 1534 for his refusal to take the oath required by the First  उत्तराधिकार अधिनियम , क्युकी  the act disparaged Papal Authority and Henry’s marriage to Catherine of Aragon .
In 1535 , he was tried for treason , convicted on perjured testimony , and  beheaded  .
More also helped to originate the phrase `` grasp at straws '' to  औसत `` शिद्दत  trying even useless things '' , in his Dialogue of Comfort Against Tribulation .
intellectuals और  statesmen across Europe were stunned by More 's execution .
erasmus saluted उसे as एक `` जिनकी आत्मा थी अधिक  pure than any snow , whose genius was such that England never had and never again will have its like '' .
There was a more controversial side to More 's life , because he advocated the persecution and execution of Protestants who refused to  recant उनके आस्था  .
However , the judgement of history has been largely willing to forgive this in light of the  टाइम्स he जिया in  and his martyrdom in the Roman Catholic cause .
Two centuries later Jonathan Swift said More was `` the person of the greatest virtue this kingdom ever produced '' , a sentiment  साथ जिससे  Samuel Johnson agreed .
Historian Hugh Trevor-Roper said in 1977 that More was `` the first great Englishman whom we feel that we know , the most saintly of humanists , the most human of saints , the  सार्वभौमिक man of हमारी कूल उत्तरी पुनर्जागरण  . ''
Captain  nemo  , also known as Prince Dakkar , is a fictional character invented by the French science fiction author Jules Verne .
Nemo appears in two of Verne 's novels , Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea ( 1870 ) and The Mysterious Island  ( 1874 ) , और  makes a cameo appearance in Verne 's play Journey Through the Impossible ( 1882 ) .
Nemo , one of the most famous antiheroes in  fiction , is a रहस्यमय  figure .
The son of  an भारतीय राजा , he  is a scientific genius who roams the depths of the sea in his submarine , the Nautilus , which was built on a deserted island .
Nemo tries to project a stern , controlled confidence , but he is driven by a thirst for vengeance and a hatred of imperialism ( particularly the  अंग्रेजों साम्राज्य  ) .
He is also wracked by remorse over the deaths of  उसके क्रू सदस्यों और भी by the  deaths of enemy sailors .
Nemo has appeared in various adaptations of  वर्न 's novels , सहित  films , where he has been portrayed by a number of different actors .
He has furthermore been adopted by other authors for inclusion in their novels , most notably in Alan Moore 's The League of  असाधारण सज्जनों  and Philip José Farmer 's The Other Log of Phileas Fogg .
Listed below are the Major League Baseball teams with the best season won-lost records in history ,  as संकल्पित by जीतना प्रतिशत  ( .700 or better ) , minimum 120 games played .
Acoustic  coupler  modem
A modem ( modulator-demodulator ) is a device that modulates an analog carrier signal to encode digital information ,  और भी demodulates ऐसे a वाहक सिग्नल to डिकोड the  transmitted information .
The goal is to produce a signal that can be transmitted easily and   decoded to reproduce the original digital data .
Modems can be used over any means of transmitting analog signals , from light emitting  diodes to  radio .
The most familiar example is a voice band modem  कि turns the  digital data of a personal computer into modulated electrical signals in the voice frequency range of a telephone channel .
ये सिग्नल  can be transmitted over telephone lines and demodulated by another modem at the receiver side to recover the digital data .
Modems are generally classified by the amount of data they can send in a given unit of time , usually expressed in bits per second ( bit/s , or  bps ) , or बाइट्स प्रति दूसरी (  B/s ) .
Modems can alternatively be classified by their   symbol rate , measured in baud .
The baud unit denotes symbols per second , or the number  of टाइम्स प्रति दूसरी the  modem sends a new signal .
लिये उदाहरण , the itu v.21 मानक प्रयुक्त ऑडियो आवृत्ति शिफ़्ट keying  with two possible frequencies corresponding to two distinct symbols ( or one bit per symbol ) , to carry 300 bits per second using 300 baud .
By contrast , the original ITU V.22 standard , which was able to transmit and receive four distinct symbols ( two bits   per symbol ) , handled 1,200 bit/s by sending 600 symbols per second ( 600 baud ) using phase shift keying .
The Declaration of Independence is a statement adopted by the Continental Congress on July 4 , 1776 , which announced that the thirteen American colonies , then at war with Great  ब्रिटेन , regarded themselves  as independent states , and no longer a part of the British Empire .
Instead they  अभी formed  a new nation—the United States of America .
John Adams was a  नेता in pushing लिये  independence , which was unanimously approved on July 2 .
A committee had already drafted the formal declaration , to be ready when  कॉंग्रेस voted  on independence .
Adams  persuaded  the committee to select Thomas Jefferson to compose the original draft of the document , which congress would edit to produce the final version .
The Declaration was ultimately a formal explanation of why Congress had voted on July 2 to declare independence from Great Britain , more than a  साल बाद the outbreak of the  American Revolutionary War .
The national birthday , the Independence Day is  मनाये on जुलाई 4  , although Adams wanted July 2 .
After ratifying the text on July 4 ,  कॉंग्रेस  issued the Declaration of Independence in several forms .
It was initially published as the printed  डनलप broadside  that was widely distributed and read to the public .
the सबसे प्रसिद्ध संस्करण of the घोषणा  , a signed copy that is popularly regarded as the Declaration of Independence , is displayed at the National Archives in Washington , D.C .
हालांकि the wording  of the Declaration was approved on July 4 , the date of its signing was August 2 .
The original July 4  संयुक्त  States Declaration of Independence manuscript was lost while all other copies have been derived from this original document .
the स्त्रोत और  interpretation of the Declaration have been the subject of much scholarly inquiry .
The Declaration justified the independence of the United States by listing colonial  grievances विरूद्ध किंग जार्ज  III , and by asserting certain natural and legal rights , including a right of revolution .
Having served its original purpose in announcing independence , the  टेक्स्ट of the घोषणा  was initially ignored after the American Revolution .
Since then , it has come to be considered a major  बयान on इंसान अधिकारों ,  particularly its second sentence:
We hold these truths to be self-evident , that all men are created equal , that they are endowed by  उनके निर्माता साथ निश्चित unalienable  Rights , that among these are Life , Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness .
This has  महरूम पुकारा `` एक of the  best-known sentences in the English language '' , containing `` the most potent and consequential words in American history . ''
The passage came to represent a moral standard to  जिससे  the United States should strive .
This view was notably promoted by Abraham Lincoln , who considered the Declaration to be the foundation of his political philosophy , and argued that the Declaration is a  बयान of सिद्धान्त through  which the United States Constitution should be interpreted .
It has inspired  कार्य लिये the  rights of marginalized people throughout the world .
The Economy of Greenland  can be characterized  as small , mixed and vulnerable .
The present economy consists of a big public sector and comprehensive foreign trade , which has resulted in an economy with periods of strong growth , considerable inflation , unemployment problems and extreme dependence on capital inflow from Denmark  और उपयोग of बाहर  , mainly Danish , skilled labor .
GDP per capita is similar to the average  यूरोपीय economies लकिन the अर्थव्यवस्था is critically निर्भर upon  substantial support from the Danish government , which supplies about half the revenues of the home rule government who in turn employ about 8,000 Greenlanders out of a labor force of 40,156 ( Jan. 2012 ) .
Unemployment nonetheless remains high , with the rest of the economy dependent upon  माँग लिये निर्यात  of shrimp and fish .
Hydrogen is a chemical element with  प्रतीक  H and atomic number 1 .
With an atomic weight of ( for hydrogen-1 ) , hydrogen  is the lightest तत्व और  its monatomic form ( H1 ) is the most abundant chemical substance , constituting roughly 75 % of the Universe 's baryonic mass .
Non- remnant stars are  मुख्यतः रचित  of hydrogen in its plasma state .
At standard temperature and pressure ,  हाइड्रोजन is  a colorless , odorless , tasteless , non-toxic , nonmetallic , highly combustible diatomic gas with the molecular formula H2 .
Most of the hydrogen  on धरती is in अणुओं ऐसे as जल  and organic compounds because hydrogen readily forms covalent compounds with most non-metallic elements .
Hydrogen plays a particularly important role in acid-base chemistry with many reactions exchanging  protons between घुलनशील  molecules .
In ionic compounds , it can take a negative charge ( an anion  ज्ञात as a हाइड्राइड और  written as H− ) , or as a positively charged species H+ .
The latter cation is written as though composed of a bare proton , but in reality , hydrogen  cations in ionic यौगिकों  always occur as more complex species .
The most common isotope of hydrogen is protium ( name rarely used , symbol 1H ) with a single proton and  no  neutrons .
As the simplest atom known , the hydrogen atom has  महरूम of सैद्धांतिक  use .
For example , as the only neutral atom with an analytic solution to the Schrödinger equation , the study of the energetics and  संबंध of the हाइड्रोजन  atom played a key role in the development of quantum mechanics .
Hydrogen gas was first artificially  उत्पादित  in the early 16th century , via the mixing of metals with acids .
In 1766–81 , Henry Cavendish was the first to recognize that hydrogen gas was a discrete substance , and that it produces water when burned , a property which later gave it its name : in Greek , hydrogen means  `` water-former ''  .
Industrial   production is mainly from the steam reforming of natural gas , and less often from more energy-intensive hydrogen production methods like the electrolysis of water .
Most hydrogen is employed near its production site , with the two largest uses being fossil fuel processing ( e.g. , hydrocracking ) and ammonia production , mostly  लिये the उर्वरक  market .
Hydrogen is a concern in metallurgy as it can embrittle many metals ,  complicating the डिज़ाइन of  pipelines and storage tanks .
Unstoppable is a 2010 American action thriller film directed by Tony Scott ,  लिखा by चिह्नित bomback ,  and starring Denzel Washington and Chris Pine .
The film , loosely based on the real-life CSX 8888 incident , tells  the स्टोरी of a runaway भाड़ा  train , and the two men ( Washington and Pine ) who manage to stop it .
It was  स्कॉट  's final feature film before his death in 2012 .
The film was released in the United  राज्य और  Canada on November 12 , 2010 , and in the United Kingdom on November 24 , 2010 .
It received mostly favorable reviews from film critics ; it garnered a `` Certified Fresh '' rating on Rotten Tomatoes based upon aggregated reviews and a  दरजा of `` generally  favorable reviews '' at Metacritic .
The film was nominated for an Academy Award for Best  ध्वनि संपादन  at the 83rd Academy Awards , but lost to Inception .
In photography , bracketing is the  सामान्य  technique of taking several shots of the same subject using different camera settings .
Bracketing is useful and often recommended in situations that make it difficult to obtain a satisfactory image with  a सिंगल शॉट , विशेषकर जब a छोटी विभिन्नता  in exposure parameters has a comparatively large effect on the resulting image .
Autobracketing is  स्वचालित bracketing by using  a setting on the camera to take several bracketed shots ( in contrast to the photographer altering the settings by hand between each shot ) .
Given the time it takes to accomplish  अनेक  shots , it is typically , but not always , used for static subjects .
Insulated glazing ( IG ) , more commonly known as double glazing ( or double-pane , and increasingly triple glazing/pane ) are double or triple glass window panes separated by an air or other  गैस भर स्पेस to reduce ऊष्मा ट्रांसफ़र  across a part of the building envelope .
Insulated Glass Units are  manufactured साथ कांच  in range of thickness from 3 mm to 10 mm or more in special applications .
Laminated or tempered glass may also be used as part of  the निर्माण  .
सबसे इकाई  are manufactured with the same thickness of glass used on both panes but special applications such as acoustic attenuation or security may require wide ranges of thicknesses to be incorporated in the same unit .
A sectioned diagram of a fixed Insulated Glazed Unit ( IGU ) , indicating the numbering  सम्मेलन प्रयुक्त in  this article .
Surface # 1 is facing outside , Surface # 2 is the inside surface of the exterior  फलक , सतह # 3 is the बाहर सतह of the  interior pane , and Surface # 4 is the inside surface of interior pane .
The window frame is labelled # 5 , a spacer is indicated as # 6 , seals are shown in red ( # 7 ) , the internal reveal is on the  सही हाथ पक्ष ( # 8 ) और  the exterior windowsill on the left ( # 9 )
To reduce shear effects on the sealed unit ( a major cause of premature failure ) , manufacturers use a rule of thumb that permits a difference of 1 mm between the thickness of the panes of glass used in the  ईकाई और स्टिल maintain  the warranty for the unit .
For example , a unit may be ordered with a 4 mm pane on  the exterior और a 3  mm pane on the interior .
These variations are allowed for  architectural  and cost reasons .
Other  combinations can be निर्दिष्ट और उत्पादित  but the manufacturer may reserve the right to limit the term of the warranty or refuse to warranty the unit altogether .
For ease of description the surfaces of a double paned unit are named according to the  following सम्मेलन : सतह # 1 ( facing बाहर ) , सतह  # 2 ( inside of outside pane ) , Surface # 3 ( outside of inside pane ) and Surface # 4 ( inside surface of inside pane ) .
Applying  the सम्बन्धित नामकरण  for triple paned units results in surfaces # 1 through # 6 .
The performance of insulating glazing can be modified through the   use of the following:
A typical installation  of insulated  glazing windows with uPVC window frames .
Selenium is a chemical element with symbol Se and  परमाणु क्रमांक  34 .
It is a nonmetal with properties that are intermediate between those of its periodic table  column-adjacent chalcogen  elements sulfur and tellurium .
It rarely occurs in its  elemental  state in nature , or as pure ore compounds .
Selenium ( Greek σελήνη selene meaning `` Moon  '' ) was discovered  in 1817 by Jöns Jacob Berzelius , who noted the similarity of the new element to the previously-known tellurium ( named for the Earth ) .
Selenium is found impurely in metal sulfide ores , where it partially  replaces the  sulfur .
Commercially , selenium is  उत्पादित as a byproduct  in the refining of these ores , most often during copper production .
Minerals that are pure selenide or selenate compounds are  ज्ञात , लकिन  are rare .
The chief commercial uses for selenium  आज हैं in glassmaking  and in pigments .
Selenium is a semiconductor and is used in  photocells  .
Uses in electronics , once important , have been mostly  supplanted by सिलिकॉन सेमीकंडक्टर  devices .
Selenium  continues  to be used in a few types of DC power surge protectors and one type of fluorescent quantum dot .
Selenium  लवण हैं विषाक्त in विशाल amounts  , but trace amounts are necessary for cellular function in many organisms , including all animals .
Selenium is a component of the antioxidant enzymes glutathione peroxidase and thioredoxin reductase ( which  indirectly reduce निश्चित oxidized  molecules in animals and some plants ) .
It is also found in three deiodinase  एंजाइमों , जिससे बदलें  one thyroid hormone to another .
Selenium requirements in plants differ by species , with some plants requiring relatively  विशाल amounts ,  and others apparently requiring none .
The United States presidential election  of  2008 was the 56th quadrennial presidential election .
It was held on Tuesday ,  नवम्बर 4 ,  2008 .
Democrat Barack Obama , then the junior Senator from Illinois , defeated Republican  जॉन मैक्केन , the  senior Senator from Arizona .
As the campaign progressed , the War in Iraq and outgoing Republican  अध्यक्ष जार्ज W. बुश था become  increasingly unpopular , and the major-party candidates ran on a platform of change and reform .
Domestic policy and the economy eventually emerged as the main themes in the last few months of the election campaign  बाद the onset of the worst  recession since the 1930s .
Obama  होता go  on to win a decisive victory over McCain in both the electoral and popular vote .
Obama received the most votes for a presidential candidate in American history , and won the popular and electoral vote by the largest  हाशिया in 12 सालो , as खूब as the largest प्रतिशत  of the popular vote for a Democrat in nearly a half-century .
This was the first U.S. presidential election in which an African American was elected , having also been the first  in जिससे an अफ़्रीकी अमरीकी जीती the नामांकन of either प्रमुख  party .
This election was also notable for being  the पहला समय in u.S. इतिहास कि दोनो प्रमुख पार्टी उम्मीदवार यहूद बैठे u.s . सीनेटरों  , only the third time ( after 1920 and 1960 ) that any sitting U.S . Senator was elected president , and only the second time that the winning President and Vice President ( Obama and Biden ) were both sitting U.S . Senators .
This was  भी the पहला चुनाव चूंकि 1952  in which neither of the major parties ' nominees was the incumbent President or Vice President .
The  sovereign प्रिंस or राजकुमारी of मोनाको is the reigning monarch और सिर of राज्य of the principality of मोनाको .
All princes or princesses have officially  लिया the नाम of the हाउस of grimaldi , लकिन have belonged  to various other houses ( Goyon de Matignon , Polignac ) in male line .
The reigning  प्रिंस is  Albert II .
Visualization of fragmentation  और तब  of defragmentation
In  the मेंटेनेंस  of file systems , defragmentation is a process that reduces the amount of fragmentation .
It does this by physically organizing the contents of the mass storage device  प्रयुक्त to स्टोर फाइलें into  the smallest number of contiguous regions ( fragments ) .
It also attempts to create larger regions of free space  using compaction  to impede the return of fragmentation .
कुछ defragmentation उपयोगिताएँ कोशिश to रखना छोटी फाइलें भीतर a सिंगल निर्देशिका साथ , as वे हैं प्रायः पहुँचा in  sequence .
Defragmentation is  लाभदायक और प्रासंगिक  to file systems on electromechanical disk drives .
The  गति  of the hard drive 's read/write heads over different areas of the disk when accessing fragmented files is slower , compared to accessing the entire contents of a non-fragmented file sequentially without moving the read/write heads to seek other fragments .
A service-level agreement ( SLA ) is a part of a service contract where a  सेवा is formally पारिभाषित  .
In practice , the term SLA is sometimes used  to refer to the contracted  delivery time ( of the service or performance ) .
As an example , internet service providers will commonly include service level agreements within the terms of  उनके अनुबंध साथ ग्राहक to define the स्तर (  s ) of service being sold in plain language terms .
In this case the SLA will typically have a technical  परिभाषा in शर्तें of औसत समय between  failures ( MTBF ) , mean time to repair or mean time to recovery ( MTTR ) ; various data rates ; throughput ; jitter ; or similar measurable details .
Union Station is a former shopping mall in Union City , Georgia , in southwest metro Atlanta  सटा to  Interstate 85 .
After new ownership  और renovations in 2006 , the नाम थी  changed from Shannon Southpark Mall in 2007 to Union Station Mall .
A previous renovation was done in the  लेट 1990s  .
The mall has  महरूम  closed since November 2010 .
इस मैप shows the संलग्न संयुक्त राज्य और , in insets at the निम्नतर बाएँ , the दो राज्य कि हैं नहीं संलग्न  .
The contiguous United States are the 48 adjoining U.S. states on the continent of North America that are south of  कनाडा और उत्तर of मैक्सिको , प्लस the ज़िला of  Columbia .
The term  excludes  the states of Alaska and Hawaii , and all off-shore U.S. territories and possessions , such as Puerto Rico .
Together , the 48 contiguous states and D.C. occupy a combined area of , which is  1.58 % of the कुल सतह  area of the Earth .
Of this , is  land  , composing 83.65 % of U.S. land area .
Officially , is water area  , composing  62.66 % of the nation 's water area .
The 2010 census population was 306,675,006 , composing 99.33 % of the nation 's population , and a density of 103.639  inhabitants/sq mi ( 40.015/km2  ) , compared to 87.264/sq mi ( 33.692/km2 ) for the nation as a whole .
`` Why '' is the title of a song recorded by American country  बैंड rascal  Flatts .
It is the third single from their sixth studio  एल्बम  , Unstoppable .
It was released to radio  स्टेशन on सितंबर 29 , 2009 और debuted  at # 44 on the U.S . Billboard US Billboard Hot Country Songs chart for the week of October 10 , 2009 .
It was written by Rob Mathes and  एलन shamblin  .
Utilization management is the evaluation of the appropriateness , medical need and efficiency of health  परवाह सेवाएं प्रक्रियाओं  and facilities according to established criteria or guidelines and under the provisions of an applicable health benefits plan .
Typically it includes new  क्रियाएँ or निर्णय आधारित  upon the analysis of a case .
utilization प्रबन्धन describes proactive  procedures , including discharge planning , concurrent planning , pre-certification and clinical case appeals .
It also covers proactive processes , such as concurrent clinical reviews and peer reviews , as well as  appeals introduced by  the provider , payer or patient .
As pre-certification   and concurrent review of cases grew , utilization management spun out of utilization review .
While not synonymous , health  परवाह  professionals tend to use the terms as interchangeable .
The difference is utilization management is and intends to manage health care cases efficiently and cost  effectively पहले और  during health care administration .
Utilization review is more  considering whether स्वास्थ्य परवाह थी appropriately  applied after it was administered .
There are four  मौलिक तकनीकों  in utilization management:
माँग प्रबन्धन
utilization पुनर्विलोकन
Case  प्रबन्धन
बीमारी  Management
The Outsiders is a coming-of-age novel by S. E. Hinton , first published  in 1967 by viking दबायें .
Hinton was 15 when she started writing the novel , but  किया सबसे of the  work when she was sixteen and a junior in high school .
Hinton was 18 when  the किताब  was published .
The book follows two rival groups , the Greasers and the  socs ( सुनाया by the लेखक as , छोटी  for Socials ) , who are divided by their socioeconomic status .
The book takes place in Tulsa , Oklahoma , in  1965  , but it is never stated in the book .
A film adaptation was produced in 1983 , and a little-known short-lived  टेलीविज़न श्रेणी appeared  in 1990 , picking up where the movie left off .
The United States House of Representatives is one of  the दो घरों  of the United States Congress ( a bicameral legislature ) .
It is frequently  referred to  as the House .
The other house is the  सीनेट  .
The composition and powers of the  हाउस  are established in Article One of the United States Constitution .
The major power of the House is to pass federal legislation that affects the entire country although its bills must also be passed by the Senate and further agreed to by the U.S. President before becoming law  ( जबतक दोनो the हाउस और  Senate re-pass the legislation with a two-thirds majority in each chamber ) .
The House has several exclusive powers : the power  to initiate आय बिल्स  , to impeach officials , and to elect the U.S. President in case there is no majority in the Electoral College .
प्रत्येक u.S. राज्य is represented in the हाउस in proportion to इसके जनसांख्यिकी लकिन is हकदार to at तनिक एक प्रतिनिधि .
The most  populous  state , California , currently has 53 representatives .
The total number of voting representatives is fixed  by विधि  at 435 .
Each  प्रतिनिधि  serves for a two-year term .
The Speaker of the United States House of Representatives , who presides over the chamber , is elected by the members of the House , and is therefore traditionally the leader of the  हाउस लोकतांत्रिक caucus or the हाउस रिपब्लिकन सम्मेलन  , whichever party has more voting members .
The House meets in the  दक्षिण  wing of the United States Capitol .
A supply chain is actually a complex and  डायनेमिक सप्लाई और माँग  network .
( cf .  wieland/wallenburg  , 2011 )
A supply chain is a system of organizations , people , activities , information , and resources involved in moving a product or service from supplier  to ग्राहक  .
Supply chain activities transform  प्राकृतिक संसाधन , कच्चा  materials , and components into a finished product that is delivered to the end customer .
In sophisticated supply chain systems , used products may  re-enter the सप्लाई कड़ी  at any point where residual value is recyclable .
Supply chains  कड़ी  value chains .
`` Purple Haze '' is a  सोंग लिखा और अंकित  by Jimi Hendrix in 1967 , released as the second single by The Jimi Hendrix Experience in both the United Kingdom and the United States .
It later appeared on  the अमरीकी  version of the band 's 1967 album Are You Experienced .
`` Purple  haze '' रै  become one of the `` archetypical psychedelic drug songs of the sixties '' .
`` Purple Haze 's '' guitar virtuosic techniques would be emulated by many metal  guitarists  .
A  बंद  up picture of a rhinoceros skin .
Skin is the  नरम  outer covering of vertebrates .
अन्य एनिमल  coverings such as the arthropod exoskeleton have different developmental origin , structure and chemical composition .
The adjective  cutaneous अर्थात् `` of the स्किन ''  ( from Latin cutis , skin ) .
In mammals , the skin is the largest organ of the integumentary system made up of multiple layers of ectodermal tissue , and  गार्ड the underlying  muscles , bones , ligaments and internal organs .
Skin of a different nature exists in amphibians ,  सरीसृपों , और पक्षियों  .
सब स्तनधारियों have कुछ बाल on उनके स्किन , भी समुद्री स्तनधारियों जिससे appear to be hairless  .
The skin interfaces with the environment and is the first line of  रक्षा  from external factors .
For  उदाहरण  , the skin plays a key role in protecting the body against pathogens and excessive water loss .
Its other functions are insulation , temperature  विनियमन , सनसनी  , and the production of vitamin D folates .
Severely damaged skin may  चंगा by forming scar  tissue .
This is  sometimes discoloured  and depigmented .
The thickness  of  skin also varies from location to location on an organism .
In humans for example , the skin located under the eyes and around the eyelids is the thinnest skin in the body at 0.5 mm thick , and is one of the first areas to show signs  of वृद्धावस्था ऐसे as ``  crows feet '' and wrinkles .
The skin on  the हथेलियां और the  soles of the feet is 4 mm thick and the thickest skin in the body .
Fur is dense  बाल  .
Primarily , fur augments the insulation the  स्किन provides लकिन can भी serve as  a secondary sexual characteristic or as camouflage .
On some animals , the skin is very hard and thick , and can be  processed to बनाएँ  leather .
सरीसृपों और मछली have  hard protective scales on their skin for protection , and birds have hard feathers , all made of tough β- keratins .
Amphibian skin is not a strong barrier  to ड्योढ़ी  of chemicals and is often subject to osmosis and diffusive forces .
For example , a frog sitting in an anesthetic solution would be sedated quickly , as the chemical diffuses  through इसके स्किन  .
थामस  Scott
The Rev . Thomas Scott ( 1747-1821 ) was an influential preacher and author  जो is प्रधानतया ज्ञात लिये उसके best-selling  work A Commentary On The Whole Bible and The Force of Truth , and as one of the founders of the Church Missionary Society .
Daniel Radcliffe , who portrays Harry Potter , has been the icon of the film series since the  रिलीज of the  first film in 2001 .
Some of the most renowned actors of the United Kingdom and Ireland have voiced or  portrayed वर्ण  appearing in the Harry Potter film series based on the book series by J. K. Rowling .
Daniel Radcliffe , Rupert Grint and Emma Watson have played Harry Potter , Ron  वीज़्ली और हर्माइनी ग्रेंजर  in all the films .
When they were cast only Radcliffe  था previously acted  in a film .
Complementing them on screen are such actors as Helena Bonham Carter , Jim Broadbent , John Cleese , Robbie Coltrane , Warwick Davis , Ralph  fiennes , माइकल gambon ,  Brendan Gleeson , Richard Griffiths , Richard Harris , John Hurt , Jason Isaacs , Miriam Margolyes , Helen McCrory , Gary Oldman , Alan Rickman , Fiona Shaw , Maggie Smith , Timothy Spall , Imelda Staunton , David Thewlis , Emma Thompson , and Julie Walters , among others .
तेरह अभिनेताओं  have appeared as the same character in all eight films of the franchise .
Some well-known British actors who have not appeared in the series  ,  are asked in jest why they have not been cast .
When David Yates was directing the fifth film , Bill Nighy , who had previously collaborated with Yates on three  of उसके  television projects , said that he joked with Yates that maybe now he would n't be the only actor in England who had n't been in Harry Potter .
`` But nobody called '' ,   Nighy added .
But in 2009 , Yates cast Nighy as Minister of Magic Rufus Scrimgeour in  deathly  Hallows .
Nighy said , `` I am no longer the only English actor not to  be in हैरी कुम्हार और  I am very pleased . ''
Jude Law has quipped , ``  nobody 's पूछा  me .
I was a bit too old  लिये  Harry '' .
When a reporter compared potions professor Horace Slughorn 's obsession with famous names to the series ' connection to `` every  notable अंग्रेजों कर्ता ,  '' Jim Broadbent , who plays Slughorn said , `` Well , not every actor gets invited .
I know some  जो हैं स्टिल  waiting . ''
With the exception of Chris Columbus , each director has had a cameo appearance in his respective film : Alfonso  cuarón appears as a जादूगर पकड़कर a मोमबत्ती दौरान a झाँकी at the तीन broomsticks in कैदी  of Azkaban ; Mike Newell is heard briefly as the radio presenter in Frank Bryce 's house in Goblet of Fire ; and David Yates features as a wizard within a magical moving portrait in Order of the Phoenix .
Producer David Heyman  भी  makes a cameo appearance as a wizard featured within a magical moving portrait in the third film , Prisoner of Azkaban .
J. K. Rowling gave a speech during the world premiere of the final film  in the series— हैरी कुम्हार और the deathly  Hallows Part 2 —on 7 July 2011 in London , England .
She announced that she could never have dreamt of the talented actors and actresses who have appeared  in all  the Harry Potter movies .
Rowling also announced that there are seven Harry  कुम्हार फिल्मी श्रेणी डाल सदस्यों , जो वो refers to as  `` The Big Seven '' , they are Daniel Radcliffe , Rupert Grint , Emma Watson , Tom Felton , Matthew Lewis , Evanna Lynch and Bonnie Wright .
The list below is sorted by film and character , as some characters have been portrayed by  अनेक अभिनेताओं .
कुंजी
( v ) indicates the actor or  अभिनेत्री lent तभी उसके or उसके  voice for his or her film character
( y ) indicates the actor or actress portrayed  the  role in a flashback scene or when the character was young .
( f ) indicates the actor or  अभिनेत्री किया नहीं appear in कोई  new footage for the film ; footage from an earlier film or films was used .
A light grey  कोशिका ( ऐसे  as the one in the `` Charity Burbage '' row in the `` Philosopher 's Stone '' column ) indicates the character was not in the film adaptation .
A twelve-step program is a set of guiding principles ( accepted by members as 'spiritual principles , ' based  on  the approved literature ) outlining a course of action for recovery from , compulsion , or other behavioral problems .
Originally  प्रस्तावित by alcoholics बेनाम ( aa ) as a विधि of रिकवरी इससे alcoholism  , the Twelve Steps were first published in the book Alcoholics Anonymous : The Story of How More Than One Hundred Men Have Recovered from Alcoholism in 1939 .
The method was then adapted and became  the न्यास  of other twelve-step programs .
As summarized by the American Psychological Association , the process  involves the  following:
admitting that one can not control one 's  व्यसन  or compulsion ;
recognizing a higher power that can  दे शक्ति  ;
examining पास्ट  errors with the help of a sponsor ( experienced member ) ;
making amends for these  त्रुटियाँ  ;
learning to live a new life with a new   code of behavior ;
helping  others who suffer from the same addictions or compulsions .
Witness  महाभियोग , in the विधि of प्रमाण of the संयुक्त राज्य  , is the process of calling into question the credibility of an individual who is testifying in a trial .
The Federal Rules of Evidence  contain the नियम शासी  impeachment in federal courts .
पार्टी नेताओ और whips of the संयुक्त राज्य हाउस of प्रतिनिधि हैं निर्वाचित by उनके संबंधित पार्टियों in a closed-door caucus by रहस्य बैलट और हैं भी ज्ञात as मंजिल नेताओ .
The U.S. House of Representatives does not officially use the term ``  अल्पसंख्यक नेता  '' although the media frequently do .
The House instead uses the terms ``  रिपब्लिकन नेता '' or  `` Democratic Leader '' depending on which party holds a minority of seats .
The current House Majority  नेता is  Republican Eric Cantor , while the current House Minority Leader is Democrat Nancy Pelosi .
The current House Majority Whip is Republican  केविन  McCarthy , while the current House Minority Whip is Democrat Steny Hoyer .
Following the outbreak of World War I in 1914 , the German Army opened the Western Front by first invading  ध्वज और बेल्जियम , तब gaining  military control of important industrial regions in France .
The tide of the advance was dramatically turned with the  बैटल of the marne  .
Following the race to the sea ,  दोनो  sides dug in along a meandering line of fortified trenches , stretching from the North Sea to the Swiss frontier with France .
This line remained  essentially अपरिवर्तित  for most of the war .
between  1915 and 1917 there were several major offensives along this front .
The attacks employed massive artillery  bombardments और massed  infantry advances .
However , a combination of entrenchments , machine gun nests , barbed wire , and artillery  repeatedly  inflicted severe casualties on the attackers and counterattacking defenders .
As a result ,  no significant  advances were made .
Among the most costly of these offensives were the Battle of Verdun with a combined  [ अनुमानित ]  700,000 dead , the Battle of the Somme with more than [ an estimated ] million casualties , and the Battle of Passchendaele with roughly [ an estimated ] 600,000 casualties .
In an effort to break the  deadlock , इस सामने देखी the  introduction of new military technology , including poison gas , aircraft and tanks .
But it was only after the adoption of  improved tactics कि  some degree of mobility was restored .
The German Spring  अप्रिय of 1918 थी बना  possible by the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk that marked the end of the conflict on the Eastern Front .
Using the recently-introduced infiltration tactics , the German armies advanced nearly to the west , which marked the deepest advance by either side since 1914  और  very nearly succeeded in forcing a breakthrough .
In spite of the generally stagnant  प्रकृति of इस  front , this theater would prove decisive .
The inexorable advance of the Allied armies during the second half of 1918 persuaded the  जर्मनी कमांडरों कि शिकस्त थी  inevitable , and the government was forced to sue for conditions of an armistice .
The terms of  सलाम यहूद सहमत  upon with the signing of the Treaty of Versailles in 1919 .
The  following is a सूची of पुनरावर्ती और नाबालिग वर्ण  in the Disney Channel Original Series The Suite Life of Zack & Cody .
These characters were  regularly  rotated , often disappearing for long periods during the series .
The  following सूची of वर्ण  has been sorted alphabetically , by first name .
Some of the characters  था no पिछला नाम और सबसे  were commonly referred to by their first name so this appeared to be the most logical method .
in the मामला of शेफ़  Paolo , who had no known first name , they have been listed by title .
The First Lady of the  संयुक्त राज्य ( flotus )  is the hostess of the White House .
Because this position is traditionally filled by the  बीवी of the अध्यक्ष  of the United States , the title is most often applied to the wife of a sitting president .
The current First  महिला is  Michelle Obama .
After her husband Barack  ओबामा थी re-elected  on November 6 , 2012 , she is scheduled to serve until January 20 , 2017 .
Septic shock is a medical condition as a result of severe infection and sepsis , though  the microbe may be प्रणालीगत or स्थानीयकृत  to a particular site .
It can cause multiple organ dysfunction syndrome ( formerly known as multiple organ failure ) and  मौत  .
Its most common victims  हैं children  , immunocompromised individuals , and the elderly , as their immune systems can not deal with the infection as effectively as those of healthy adults .
Frequently , patients suffering from septic shock  हैं cared लिये in intensive परवाह  units .
The mortality rate from septic shock   is approximately 25–50 % .
Kevin Brereton ( born February 20 , 1972 ) , better known by his stage name k-os ( ; `` chaos '' ) , is a Canadian rapper ,  सिंगर , songwriter और रिकार्ड निर्माता  .
His  दिए नाम may भी be cited  as Kheaven , a spelling he later adopted .
The alias `` k-os '' ,  spelled साथ a निम्नतर मामला `` k '' , थी intended to be कम आक्रामक  than the pseudonyms of other rappers whose names were all upper case , such as KRS-One .
It is an acronym for `` Knowledge of Self , '' although in a later interview he  कहा कि it originally stood लिये `` केविन 's असली ध्वनि . '' k-os  ' music incorporates a wide variety of music genres , including rap , funk , rock , and reggae .
The lyrics frequently focus on promoting a `` positive message '' while at times  expressing आलोचना of मुख्यधारा हिप हॉप  culture 's obsession with money , fame and glorification of violence .
A musician as well as a producer , k-os has written and produced   nearly every part of all four of his albums .
k-os प्रायः performs  with a live band , something that is uncommon in the hip hop genre .
He sometimes plays guitar and  कुंजीपटल दोनो दौरान  live performances and in the studio .
k-os received his first musical exposure with  the सिंगल  `` Musical Essence '' , released in 1993 .
After the release of his second single `` Rise Like the Sun '' in 1996 , he  withdrew इससे  the industry because he was dissatisfied with his musical style .
He reappeared briefly in 1999 and released his  डेब्यू  album Exit in 2002 .
The album received positive reviews but sold relatively  few  copies .
He released his second  एल्बम आनन्द विद्रोह  in 2004 , which received platinum status in Canada .
A third album , , was released in 2006 and also  गई  platinum .
His fourth album ,  यस  !
, was released in  2009  .
His fifth album BLack on BLonde was released in  2013  .
The official 2007  संस्करण  of the UCC .
Even the confidential rough drafts of the UCC were saved and  प्रकाशित as  a 10-volume set .
The Uniform Commercial Code ( UCC or the Code ) , first published in 1952 , is one of a number of uniform acts  कि have महरूम promulgated in संयोजन साथ प्रयत्न  to harmonize the law of sales and other commercial transactions in all 50 states within the United States of America .
Multi-pitch climbing is the ascent of climbing routes with  एक or अधिक stops at  a belay station .
Each section  of  actual climbing between stops at the belay stations is called a pitch .
The leader ascends the pitch , placing gear and stopping to anchor  themselves to the  belay station .
The reason for the stops can be determined by choice  , सम्मेलन  or necessity .
For  example:
The rope is too short to do  the संपूर्ण रूट  in one pitch ( necessity ) .
The leader has run out of protective  गियर ( necessity  ) .
There is a  सुविधाजनक protectable  ledge , or fixed bolts placed by previous climbers , at the location for a belay station ( convention ) .
The leader chooses to rest or exchange leads  पहले the अगला खण्ड  of the climb ( choice ) .
the सामान्य purpose of ये stops is to allow the दूसरी to ascend to the पाइंट of the सीसे climber जबकि collecting the सुरक्षात्मक गियर इससे the रूट in the कोर्स of the सीसे climber 's ascent .
At the belay station , the protective gear is collected , possibly exchanged to a new leader , and the leader of the  अगला पिच  ascends the route .
A diagram showing  an i गठन  on offense and a 4-3 Formation on defense
In American football , each team has eleven  खिलाड़ी on the फ़ील्ड at  one time .
The specific role that a  खिलाड़ी takes  on the field is called their position .
Under the modern rules of American football , teams are allowed unlimited  subsititutions , कि is टीमों may  change any number of players after any play .
This has resulted in the development of three `` platoons '' of players , the offense ( the team with the ball , who is trying to score  ) , the रक्षा ( the टोली trying to prevent the अन्य टोली इससे  scoring , and to take the ball from them ) , and the special teams ( who play in kicking situations ) .
Within those  platoons ,  various specific positions exist depending on what the player 's main job is .
The Controlled Substances Act ( CSA ) was  enacted  into law by the Congress of the United States as Title II of the Comprehensive Drug Abuse Prevention and Control Act of 1970 .
The CSA is the federal U.S. drug policy under which the manufacture , importation , possession , use and distribution of certain  substances  is regulated .
The Act also served as the national implementing legislation for the Single  सम्मेलन  on Narcotic Drugs .
The legislation created five Schedules ( classifications ) , with varying qualifications for  a पदार्थ  to be included in each .
Two federal agencies , the Drug Enforcement Administration and the Food and Drug Administration , determine which substances are added to or removed from the various schedules , though the statute passed  by  Congress created the initial listing , and Congress has sometimes scheduled other substances through legislation such as the Hillory J. Farias and Samantha Reid Date-Rape Prevention Act of 2000 , which placed gamma hydroxybutyrate in Schedule I . Classification decisions are required to be made on criteria including potential for abuse ( an undefined term ) , currently accepted medical use in treatment in the United States , and international treaties .
The Wayne Route 23 Transit Center is a New Jersey Transit park-and-ride station in Wayne , New Jersey along the Montclair-Boonton Line that provides bus service to New York City and various other points in the area as well as  montclair-boonton लकीर ट्रैन सेवा to नई यॉर्क , hoboken , और इंटरमीडिएट अंक साथ the लकीर between  Hackettstown and Montclair State University .
It is located off of the southbound lanes of  नई जर्सी  Route 23 on West Belt Road , near the interchange where Route 23 , Interstate 80 , and U.S. Route 46 meet , across from the Willowbrook Mall .
The station  खोली in जनवरी  2008 and has 1,000 parking spaces .
New Jersey Transit intends for this combined rail and bus station to become an ``  interceptor स्टेशन , '' कि  will help relieve the habitual congestion at the West Belt Road Interchange , where the three major highways meet .
In addition , the construction of the station was meant to also ease the congestion at what was then Route 23 Park & Ride , a bus depot on Route 23 North that has since been renamed Mother 's Park & Ride , and the Willowbrook Mall Park & Ride ; the  now-mother 's साईट था सीमित पार्किंग जबकि njt थी having ट्रबल  with overfull parking areas at Willowbrook .
The Wayne Township bus garage is located on the  विपरीत पक्ष of  Route 23 .
There has been a proposal to build a parking deck with another thousand   spots and develop the land at the station .
In addition to Montclair-Boonton trains , the Transit Center is  परोसा by the following  New Jersey Transit bus lines:
75 to Newark Penn  स्टेशन  and Butler
194 to Port  प्राधिकार बस टर्मिनल  and Butler/Newfoundland
198 to Port Authority Bus Terminal and William  paterson विश्वविद्यालयों
324 to Port Authority   and Wayne Route 23
748 to Willowbrook Mall and  paterson
The at sign @ is also commonly called the at symbol , ampersat , apetail or commercial at in English—and less  commonly  a wide range of other terms .
The fact that there is no single word in English for the symbol has prompted some writers to use the French arobase or Spanish and Portuguese arroba—or to coin new words such as asperand ,  ampersat—but none of ये रै  achieved wide currency .
Originally an accounting and commercial invoice abbreviation meaning `` at the rate of '' ( e.g . 7  विजेट  @ $ 2 = $ 14 ) , it was not included on the keyboard of the earliest commercially successful typewriters , but was on at least one 1889 model and the very successful Underwood models from the `` Underwood No . 5 '' in 1900 onward .
It is  अभी  universally included on computer keyboards .
In recent years , its meaning has grown to include the sense of being ``  स्तिथ at , '' `` और , '' or  `` directed at '' , especially in email addresses and social media , particularly Twitter .
the चिह्नित  is encoded at .
The Catcher in the   Rye is a 1951 novel by J. D. Salinger .
originally प्रकाशित  for adults , it has since become popular with adolescent readers for its themes of teenage angst and alienation .
It has been  अनूदित into लगभग  all of the world 's major languages .
Around 250,000 copies are  बेची प्रत्येक साल साथ  total sales of more than 65 million books .
The novel 's protagonist and antihero , Holden  caulfield , रै  become an icon for teenage rebellion .
The novel was included on Times 2005 list of the 100 best  english-language novels लिखा चूंकि 1923 , और it थी नामित by आधुनिक पुस्तकालयों  and its readers as one of the 100 best English-language novels of the 20th century .
It has been frequently challenged in  the संयुक्त राज्य और अन्य  countries for its liberal use of profanity and portrayal of sexuality .
It also deals with complex issues of identity , belonging   , connection , and alienation .
skeletal  muscles homo sapiens
This is a table of muscles  of the इंसान  anatomy .
There are approximately 642 skeletal muscles within the typical human , and almost every muscle  constitutes एक भाग of a जोड़ी of  identical bilateral muscles , found on both sides , resulting in approximately 320 pairs of muscles , as presented in this article .
nevertheless , the सटीक क्रमांक is मुश्किल  to define because different sources group muscles differently , e.g . regarding what is defined as different parts of a single muscle or as several muscles .
उदाहरण  range from 640 to 850 .
The muscles of the human body can be categorized into  a क्रमांक of  groups which include muscles relating to the head and neck , muscles of the torso or trunk , muscles of the upper limbs , and muscles of the lower limbs .
The action refers to the action of each muscle from  the मानक  anatomical position .
In other positions , other   actions may be performed .
Bad Girls Club ( BGC ) is an American reality  टेलीविज़न श्रेणी निर्मित by जोनाथन  Murray for the Oxygen television station .
The show centers on seven feisty and mischievous women with different  पृष्ठभूमि और personalities  , who have a number of psychological and behavioral problems .
They are introduced to the show off their pernicious behavior and accomplish specific goals   .
the डाल , deemed `` ख़राब लड़कियों '' , आनंद  a luxurious lifestyle in a fine mansion for three months , during which they must obey specified rules .
Their lives inside – and outside – of the house are chronicled and recorded by  the उत्पादन  team .
The Bad Girls Club is broadcast in  पाँच देशों ( संयुक्त  States , Netherlands , Australia , Hungary , and Sweden ) .
It has received negative reviews from critics , who believe  the दिखाएँ promotes हिंसा  by adolescent viewers .
Furthermore , several cast members made controversial remarks which outraged many  दर्शक  .
The format of the show has changed  इससे जल्दी सीज़न  .
If a `` bad girl '' breaks a rule , she is evicted from the show  और , if it is  early in the season , replaced by a new `` bad girl '' .
There have been nine complete seasons of The Bad Girls  क्लबों , साथ the  tenth season currently airing .
The fourth season had the highest  दरजा  in the show 's history , becoming its `` breakthrough season '' .
There have been three spin-offs  of the ख़राब  Girls Club .
One of them , Love Games : Bad Girls Need Love Too ,  जहाँ पास्ट डाल  members seek true love , has gained high ratings .
Oxygen has  भी released  a mobile game , comic strip and merchandise to promote the show .
Of the 92 contestants , Kerry Harvick ( of season one ) was a successful country singer before  the दिखाएँ  .
Tanisha Thomas (  of ऋतु  two ) later hosted Oxygen 's OxygenLive !
and the subsequent seasons of Love Games  : ख़राब लड़कियों need प्रेम too  .
Thomas , who has been dubbed the ``  गॉडमदर '' to सब प्रतियोगी ,  has her own television documentary entitled Tanisha Gets Married .
As of Season 8 she 's been the host of the reunion  specials  .
the आयोवा सीनेट is the  upper house of the Iowa General Assembly .
There are 50 seats in the Iowa Senate , representing 50 single-member districts across the state with populations  of  approximately 60,927 per constituency , .
Each Senate district  is रचित  of two House districts .
The Senate  meets at  the Iowa State Capitol in Des Moines .
Unlike the lower house ,  the आयोवा हाउस of  Representatives , Senators serve four-year terms , with half of the Senate staggered for re-election every two years .
There are no  पद  limits for the Senate .
Mechanical  मरम्मत
Maintenance , repair , and operations ( MRO ) or maintenance ,  मरम्मत , और overhaul involves  fixing any sort of mechanical , plumbing or electrical device should it become out of order or broken ( known as repair , unscheduled or casualty maintenance ) .
It also includes performing routine actions which keep the device in  working  order ( known as scheduled maintenance ) or prevent trouble from arising ( preventive maintenance ) .
MRO may be defined as , `` All actions which have the objective of retaining or restoring an item in or to a state in which it can perform its required  फलन  .
The actions include the combination of all technical and corresponding administrative ,  managerial , और पर्यवेक्षण क्रियाएँ  . ''
mro परिचालन can be categorised by whether  the product remains the property of the customer , i.e . a service is being offered , or whether the product is bought by the reprocessing organisation and sold to any customer wishing to make the purchase ( Guadette , 2002 ) .
In the former case it may be a backshop operation within a larger  संगठन or छोटी  operation .
The  former  of these represents a closed loop supply chain and usually has the scope of maintenance , repair or of the product .
The latter of the categorisations is an open loop  सप्लाई कड़ी और  is typified by refurbishment and remanufacture .
The main  characteristic of the बंद  loop system is that the demand for a product is matched with the supply of a used product .
Neglecting asset write-offs and exceptional activities the total population of the  product  between the customer and the service provider remains constant .
Prince William , Duke of  कैम्ब्रिज ( विलियम आर्थर फिलिप  Louis ; born 21 June 1982 ) , is the elder son of Charles , Prince of Wales , and Diana , Princess of Wales , and third-eldest grandchild of Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip , Duke of Edinburgh .
He is second  in the लकीर of उत्तराधिकार ,  behind his father , to the thrones of sixteen independent sovereign states known as the Commonwealth realms : the United Kingdom , Canada , Australia , New Zealand , Jamaica , Barbados , The Bahamas , Grenada , Papua New Guinea , the Solomon Islands , Tuvalu , Saint Lucia , Saint Vincent and the Grenadines , Belize , Antigua and Barbuda , and Saint Kitts and Nevis .
Prince William was educated at  four  schools in the United Kingdom and obtained a degree from the University of St Andrews .
He spent parts of a gap year in Chile  , बेलीज़ , तंजानिया  , and Kenya where he has lived and holidayed several times .
Prince William has also taken Kiswahili studies at universities in  कीनिया और  Tanzania .
He was commissioned as a Lieutenant in the Blues and Royals Regiment of the Household Cavalry —serving with his brother Prince Harry —and , two years later , earned his wings by  completing पायलट प्रशिक्षण at royal एयर  Force College Cranwell .
In 2009 , he transferred to the Royal Air Force , was promoted to Flight Lieutenant and underwent helicopter flying training in  अनुक्रम to become a full-time पायलट  with the Search and Rescue Force .
In 2010 , he completed his general and special-to-type helicopter  प्रशिक्षण और गई on to  RAF Valley on No . 22 Squadron performing co-pilot duties on board a Sea King search and rescue helicopter .
प्रिंस विलियम शादीशुदा उसके longtime गर्लफ्रेंड , कैथरीन मिडलटन , on 29 अप्रैल 2011 at वेस्टमिंस्टर ऐबी .
Hours prior to his wedding , Prince William was created Duke of Cambridge , Earl of Strathearn ,  और  Baron Carrickfergus .
DeAndre Cortez Way ( born July 28 , 1990 ) , better known by his stage name Soulja Boy Tell 'Em , or simply  soulja लड़के , is an अमरीकी rapper , रिकार्ड  producer , actor , and entrepreneur .
In September 2007 , his single `` Crank That ( Soulja Boy ) `` reached number one on the  बिलबोर्ड  Hot 100 .
The single was initially self-published on the internet , and it later became a number-one hit in the United States for seven  non-consecutive सप्ताह starting in सितंबर  2007 .
on अगस्त 17 रास्ता थी सूचीबद्ध  at # 18 on the Forbes list of Hip-Hop Cash Kings of 2010 earning $ 7 million for that year .
Way has currently released three studio albums and one independent album : his debut studio album Souljaboytellem.com ( 2007 ) was certified platinum by the  riaa .
However , his next two albums , iSouljaBoyTellem ( 2008 ) and The DeAndre Way ( 2010 ) did not match the commercial success of his debut , the latter only selling 100,000 copies , despite the success of  अनेक singles आरपार दोनो एल्बम , ऐसे as `` चुंबन me thru the फोन `` और `` फेरे my swag on `` ( isouljaboytellem  ) and `` Pretty Boy Swag `` ( The DeAndre Way ) .
This was mainly due to negotiation problems with Interscope  रिकॉर्ड जिससे meant a सीमित राशि  of records were made available to the public .
As of 2011 , Way has confirmed he is working on  उसके चौथी स्टुडियो  album , entitled USA DRE , which will be released in 2013 .
The electron transport chain in the  सूत्रकणिका is the साईट  of oxidative phosphorylation in eukaryotes .
The NADH and succinate generated in the citric acid cycle are  oxidized , providing  energy to power ATP synthase .
Photosynthetic  इलेक्ट्रॉन हस्तांतरण  chain of the thylakoid membrane .
An  इलेक्ट्रॉन हस्तांतरण  chain ( ETC ) couples electron transfer between an electron donor ( such as NADH ) and an electron acceptor ( such as O2 ) with the transfer of H+ ions ( protons ) across a membrane .
The resulting electrochemical proton  अनुपात is प्रयुक्त to generate  chemical energy in the form of adenosine triphosphate ( ATP ) .
Electron transport chains are the cellular mechanisms used for extracting energy from sunlight in photosynthesis and  भी इससे रेडॉक्स  reactions , such as the oxidation of sugars ( respiration ) .
In chloroplasts , light drives the conversion of water to oxygen and NADP+ to NADPH with transfer of H+ ions  आरपार हरितलवक  membranes .
In mitochondria , it is the  परिवर्तन of  oxygen to water , NADH to NAD+ and succinate to fumarate that are required to generate the proton gradient .
Electron transport chains are major sites of premature electron leakage to oxygen , generating superoxide and potentially resulting in  increased oxidative  stress .
Tramadol hydrochloride (  trademarked as conzip , ryzolt , ultracet  , Ultram in the USA , Ralivia , Zytram XL Durella { CR-100/200 mg } in Canada or Adolonta in Spain ) is a centrally acting synthetic analgesic used to treat moderate to moderately severe pain .
The drug has a wide range of applications , including treatment of rheumatoid arthritis  , बेचैन टाँगे सिंड्रोम  , motor neurone disease and fibromyalgia .
It was launched and marketed as Tramal by the German pharmaceutical company Grünenthal  gmbh in 1977  .
Tramadol is a weak μ-opioid receptor agonist that  भी induces serotonin रिलीज और  inhibits the reuptake of norepinephrine .
Tramadol is metabolized to O-desmethyltramadol , a significantly more potent μ-opioid   agonist .
Tramadol and its major metabolite ( s ) are distinguished from other more potent opioid agonists by relative selectivity for  μ-opioid receptors  .
बर्नार्ड लॉरेंस `` बर्नी '' madoff ( ;  born April 29 , 1938 ) is an American former stockbroker , investment advisor , financier , and white collar criminal .
He is the former non-executive Chairman of the  नैस्डैक भण्डार मार्केट , और the admitted ऑपरेटर  of a Ponzi scheme that is considered to be the largest financial fraud in U.S. history .
Madoff founded the Wall Street firm Bernard  L. madoff निवेश प्रतिभूति  LLC in 1960 , and was its chairman until his arrest on December 11 , 2008 .
the  firm was one of the top market maker businesses on Wall Street , which bypassed `` specialist '' firms by directly executing orders over the counter from retail brokers .
He employed at the firm his brother Peter as Senior Managing Director and Chief Compliance  अधिकारी ; पीटर रै चूंकि  been sentenced to 10 years in prison .
Peter 's daughter Shana Madoff as the firm 's rules and compliance officer and attorney , and his sons  एंड्रयू और चिह्नित ( चिह्नित वचनबद्ध  suicide by hanging exactly two years after his father 's arrest ) .
On December 10 , 2008 , Madoff 's sons told authorities that their father had confessed to them that the asset management unit of  उसके कड़ थी a  massive Ponzi scheme , and quoted him as describing it as `` one big lie . ''
the  following day , FBI agents arrested Madoff and charged him with one count of securities fraud .
The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (  सेक ) था previously conducted investigations  into Madoff 's business practices , but did not uncover the massive fraud .
In March 2009 , Madoff pleaded guilty to 11 federal felonies and admitted to turning his wealth management  कारोबार into a विशाल पेन्शन योजना  that defrauded thousands of investors of billions of dollars .
Madoff said he began the Ponzi scheme in the  जल्दी 1990s  .
However , federal investigators believe the fraud began as early as the 1970s , and those  चार्ज साथ recovering the लापता धन मानना  the investment operation may never have been legitimate .
The amount missing from client accounts ,  सहित fabricated  gains , was almost $ 65 billion .
The court-appointed  ट्रस्टी अनुमानित वास्तविक  losses to investors of $ 18 billion .
On June 29 , 2009 , he was  sentenced to 150 सालो in थाना  , the maximum allowed .
Administrative Professionals Day ( also known as Secretaries Day or Admin Day ) is an unofficial secular holiday observed in several countries to recognize the work of  secretaries , प्रशासनिक assistants , receptionists  , and other administrative support professionals .
In North America , it is celebrated on the Wednesday of the last full week of April ( April 24 in 2013   ) .
In France it is celebrated on the third Thursday in April  (  April 18 in 2013 ) .
In Australia it   is celebrated on the first Friday in May
A quasi-judicial body is an entity such as an arbitrator or tribunal board , generally of a public administrative  एजेंसी , जिससे रै शक्तियां और प्रक्रियाओं  resembling those of a court of law or judge , and which is obligated to objectively determine facts and draw conclusions from them so as to provide the basis of an official action .
Such actions are able to remedy a  हालात or थोपने विधिक दंड  , and may affect the legal rights , duties or privileges of specific parties .
स्मारक of tycho  Brahe and Johannes Kepler in Prague
Tycho Brahe ( 14 December 154624 October 1601 ) , born Tyge Ottesen Brahe , was a Danish nobleman known for his  सटीक और व्यापक  astronomical and planetary observations .
He was born in Scania ,  तब भाग of डेनमार्क , अभी  part of modern-day Sweden .
Tycho was well known in his  आजीवन as an astronomer  and alchemist .
In his De nova stella ( On the new star ) of 1573 , he  refuted the aristotelian  belief in an unchanging celestial realm .
His precise measurements indicated that `` new stars , '' ( stellae novae , now known as supernovae ) in particular that of 1572 , lacked the parallax expected in sub-lunar phenomena , and were therefore not `` atmospheric '' tailless comets as previously believed ,  लकिन यहूद ऊपर the माहौल और  moon .
Using similar  माप he दिखाया कि धूमकेतुओं यहूद भी नहीं  atmospheric phenomena , as previously thought , and must pass through the supposedly `` immutable '' celestial spheres .
As an astronomer , Tycho worked to combine what he saw as the geometrical benefits of the Copernican system with the philosophical benefits of the  ptolemaic प्रणाली into उसके अपना मॉडल of the ब्रह्मांड  , the Tychonic system .
Furthermore , he was the last of the major naked eye astronomers ,  working बगैर telescopes  for his observations .
Tycho Brahe was granted an estate on the island of Hven and the funding to build the Uraniborg , an early research institute , where he built large astronomical instruments and took many careful measurements , and later Stjerneborg , underground , when he discovered  कि उसके यंत्र in  the former were not sufficiently steady .
On the island ( on which he demonstrated autocratic character and behavior toward the residents ) he founded manufactories such  as  paper-making to provide material for printing his results .
After disagreements with the new Danish king Christian IV in 1597 , he was invited by the Bohemian king and Holy  रोमन सम्राट rudolph  II to Prague , where he became the official imperial astronomer .
He built the new  वेधशाला at benátky  nad Jizerou .
Here , from 1600 until his death in 1601 , he was assisted by Johannes Kepler who later used  tycho 's  astronomical data to develop Kepler 's laws of planetary motion .
Guro District ( Guro-gu ) is a district of Seoul , South Korea , which was separated  इससे yeongdeungpo ज़िला  on April 1 , 1980 .
Located in the southwestern part of the city , where besides Yangcheon District and Geumcheon District Guro District has an important position as a transport link which  contains railroads  , land routes from the rest of Seoul to the south of the country .
The  gyeongbu  and Gyeongin railway lines connect Seoul to Busan and Incheon .
In addition ,  सियोल महानगर  Subway lines 1 , 2 , and 7 , and major highways intersect in Guro District .
The name Guro originates  इससे the लेजेंड कि नौ  ( ) old men ( Korean : ro ) enjoyed longevity in the district .
A digital  औद्योगिक  complex is located in Guro District .
The Guro Digital Industrial Complex , which played a leading industrial role mainly with textile manufacturing , dressmaking and other labour-intensive industries in 1967  , रै महरूम rapidly बदला into  an IT industrial complex .
This complex played a pivotal role in the economic growth of the South Korea 's development era , referred to as the `` Miracle on the Han  नदी `` , और भी contributed 10 प्रतिशत  of national export in the 1970s .
Twenty-one percent of the total area of Guro District is a restricted zone to be used as a  greenbelt साथ the तभी  arboretum in Seoul .
The zone is changing into  a जीवंत ज़िला as  large labour-intensive factories are moving from the area and the council is developing what it terms its four zones .
An `` e-government `` system based on this hosted the international e-participation forum on February  7–9 , 2007 , साथ  the participation of more than thirty-seven countries .
The forum was launched with the theme `` Promoting Democracy and Regional Development '' and twenty-five mayors including André Santini ( Issy-les-Moulineaux , France ) , Kevin Foy ( Chapel Hill , US )  , apirak kosayothin ( बैंकॉक , थाईलैंड ) , uvais मोहम्मद emthiyas ( कोलोन  , Sri Lanka ) , and world experts such as Dr William H. Dutton ( Director of Oxford Internet Institute at the University of Oxford , UK ) and Dr Ari-Veiko Anttiroiko ( professor at the University of Tampere , Finland ) participated in the forum .
The Guro Declaration , adopted during the forum , aims to set up a portal site for  e-government विकास  and to establish a concrete project in order to bridge the digital divide among the world 's cities .
This practice has been recognised for providing a new important step in the  विकास of e-democracy  .
The e-participation forum was a key factor for Guro to play the leading role in bridging the digital  divide among शहरों , to provide i.t . उद्यमों  located in Guro Digital Industrial Complex the opportunity to launch into the international market , to improve its image and become a global leader to concrete e-democracy .
The international  e-participation फ़ोरम  on February 7–9 , 2007
A wonton ( also spelled wantan , wanton , or wuntun in transcription from Cantonese ;  मंदारिन : húndùn  ) is a type of dumpling commonly found in a number of Chinese cuisines .
Many people were involved in the invention of  रेडियो as we  now know it .
Several possible methods of wireless communication were considered , including inductive and capacitive induction and transmission through the ground , however the method used for radio today  exclusively involves the हस्तांतरण और रिसेप्शन of इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक  waves .
After early speculation on the subject , experimental work on the connection  between विद्युत और चुंबकत्व began around 1820 साथ  the work of Hans Christian Ørsted and continued with the work of André-Marie Ampère , Joseph Henry , and Michael Faraday .
These investigations culminated in the  पूरा सिद्धान्त  of electromagnetism developed by James Clerk Maxwell .
This theory described the theoretical basis of the propagation of  इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक  waves .
After Maxwell 's theory was published many people experimented with wireless communication , some intentionally using  मैक्सवेल 's सिद्धान्त कुछ  not .
It is considered likely that the first intentional transmission of a signal by means of electromagnetic waves was performed  by दाउद एडवर्ड ह्यूजेस  around 1880 , although this was considered to be induction at the time .
The first systematic and unequivocal transmission of EM waves was performed by Heinrich Rudolf Hertz and described in papers published  in 1887 और 1890  .
हर्ट्ज़  famously considered these results as being of little practical value .
After Hertz 's work many people were involved in the  विकास of components और सिद्धान्त  involved with the transmission and reception of electromagnetic waves .
Others , notably Guglielmo Marconi , were concerned with practical improvements and the commercial   application of radio to wireless telegraphy .
Later on Reginald A. Fessenden  became the  first to send an audio signal by means of electromagnetic waves .
Scurvy is a disease resulting from a  कमियां  of vitamin C , which is required for the synthesis of collagen in humans .
The chemical name for vitamin C , ascorbic acid , is derived from the Latin name of scurvy ,  scorbutus , जिससे भी provides the क्रियाशील scorbutic  ( `` of , characterized by or having to do with scurvy '' ) .
Scurvy often presents itself initially as symptoms of malaise and lethargy ,  followed by गठन  of spots on the skin , spongy gums , and bleeding from the mucous membranes .
Spots are most  abundant on the जांघों और  legs , and a person with the ailment looks pale , feels depressed , and is partially immobilized .
As scurvy advances , there can be open , suppurating   wounds , loss of teeth , jaundice , fever , neuropathy and death .
Scurvy was at one time common among sailors , pirates and others aboard ships at sea longer than perishable fruits and vegetables could be stored ( subsisting instead only on cured and salted meats  और सूखी दाने ) और by सैनिको similarly वंचित of ये भोजन  for extended periods .
It was described by Hippocrates ( c. 460 BC–c . 380 BC ) , and herbal  cures लिये स्कर्वी have महरूम  known in many native cultures since prehistory .
Scurvy was one of the limiting  कारकों of समुद्री सफर  , often killing large numbers of the passengers and crew on long-distance voyages .
This became a significant issue in Europe from the beginning of the modern era in the Age of Discovery in the 15th century , continuing  to खेल a significant  role through World War I in the 20th century .
While today scurvy is known to be caused by a nutritional deficiency , until the isolation of vitamin C and direct evidence of its  कड़ी to स्कर्वी  in 1932 , numerous theories and treatments were proposed , often on little or no experimental data .
This inconsistency is attributed to the lack of vitamin C  as a पृथक अवधारणा , an अक्षमता to reliably  link different foods ( notably present in fresh citrus , watercress , and organ meat ) to scurvy .
an अतिरिक्त अवधारणा जरूरी to समझे स्कर्वी थी the degradation of विटामिन c by एक्सपोज़र to एयर और तांबे और अन्य परिवर्तन मेटल लवण ऐसे as those of आयरन , यूँ बदलना the कड़ी of भोजन to स्कर्वी over समय  .
उपचार  by fresh food , particularly citrus fruit , was periodically implemented , as it had been since antiquity .
However until the 1930s ,  उपचार थी असंगत  , with many ineffective treatments used into the 20th century .
It was a Scottish surgeon in the Royal Navy , James Lind who first proved it could be treated with citrus fruit in experiments he described in his 1753 book , A Treatise of the Scurvy , though  उसके सलाह थी नहीं implemented by the royal नेवी लिये  several decades .
In  infants , स्कर्वी is sometimes referred to as barlow  's disease , named after Sir Thomas Barlow , a British physician who described it .
However , Barlow 's disease may also  refer  to mitral valve prolapse .
Other  eponyms  for scurvy include Moeller 's disease and Cheadle 's disease .
Scurvy does not occur in most animals because they can synthesize  उनके अपना  vitamin C .
However , humans and other higher primates ( the simians - monkeys and apes - and tarsiers  ) , गिनी सूअर , सबसे  or all bats , and some species of birds and fish lack an enzyme ( L-gulonolactone oxidase ) necessary for such synthesis and must obtain vitamin C through their diet .
Vitamin C is widespread in plant tissues , with particularly high concentrations occurring in  citrus फल  ( oranges , lemons , limes , grapefruits ) , tomatoes , potatoes , cabbages , and green peppers .
Iron is   a chemical element with the symbol Fe ( from ) and atomic number 26 .
It is  a मेटल in the  first transition series .
it is the सबसे आम  element ( by mass ) forming the planet Earth as a whole , forming much of Earth 's outer and inner core .
It  is the चौथी  most common element in the Earth 's crust .
Iron 's very common presence in rocky  ग्रह जैसे धरती is due to इसके abundant उत्पादन as a परिणाम of संलयन in high-mass  stars , where the production of nickel-56 ( which decays to the most common isotope of iron ) is the last nuclear fusion reaction that is exothermic .
This  causes radioactive  nickel to become the last element to be produced before collapse of a supernova leads to the explosive events that scatter this precursor radionuclide of iron abundantly into space .
Like other group 8 elements , iron  exists in a चौड़ी दायरा of ऑक्सीकरण  states , −2 to +6 , although +2 and +3 are the most common .
Elemental iron occurs in meteoroids and other low oxygen environments , but is reactive to  ऑक्सीजन  and water .
Fresh iron surfaces appear lustrous silvery-gray , but oxidize in normal air to give hydrated iron oxides , commonly  ज्ञात as चढ़  .
Unlike many other metals which form passivating oxide layers , iron oxides occupy more volume than  आयरन मेटल , और यूँ आयरन आक्साइड  flake off and expose fresh surfaces for corrosion .
Iron metal has been used since ancient times , though copper  alloys , जिससे have निम्नतर  melting temperatures , were used first in history .
Pure iron is soft (  softer than एल्युमिनियम  ) , but is unobtainable by smelting .
The material is significantly hardened and strengthened  by impurities  from the smelting process , such as carbon .
A certain proportion of carbon ( between  0.002 % और 2.1 % ) produces  steel , which may be up to 1000 times harder than pure iron .
Crude iron metal is produced in blast furnaces , where  अयस्क is घटाया  by coke to pig iron , which has a high carbon content .
Further refinement with oxygen reduces the carbon content  to the सही proportion  to make steel .
Steels and low carbon iron alloys with other metals ( alloy steels ) are by far the most common metals in industrial use , due to their great range of desirable  properties and the  abundance of iron .
Iron chemical  यौगिकों , जिससे  include ferrous and ferric compounds , have many uses .
Iron oxide mixed with aluminium powder can be ignited to create a thermite reaction , used  in वेल्डिंग  and purifying ores .
It forms  शब्दकोष यौगिकों  with the halogens and the chalcogens .
Among its  कार्बधातुक यौगिकों is ferrocene  , the first sandwich compound discovered .
Iron plays an important role in biology , forming complexes with molecular oxygen in hemoglobin and myoglobin ; these two compounds are common oxygen transport proteins  in  vertebrates .
Iron is also the metal used at the active site of many important redox enzymes dealing with cellular respiration and oxidation and  कटौती in पौधे और पशु  .
The Blue Cross Blue Shield Association (  bcbsa ) is a संघ of  38 separate health insurance organizations and companies in the United States .
Combined , they directly or indirectly provide health  बीमे to over 99 लाख  Americans .
The history  of ब्लू क्रॉस तिथियाँ वापस to  1929 , while the history of Blue Shield dates to 1939 .
The Blue  क्रॉस  Association dates back to 1960 , while its Blue Shield counterpart was created in 1948 .
The two organizations merged in 1982 , forming the  वर्तमान संघ  .
A potato chip ( known as a chip in American , Australian , New  जीलैंड , कनाडाई , singaporean , हांग काँग , दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी और jamaican  English ; as a crisp in British English and Hiberno-English , and as either a chip or wafer in Indian English ) is a thin slice of potato that is deep fried or baked until crunchy .
Potato chips  हैं commonly  served as an appetizer , side dish , or snack .
The basic chips are cooked and salted ; additional varieties are manufactured using various flavorings and ingredients including seasonings , herbs , spices , cheeses , and artificial  additives  .
`` Crisps '' , however , may also refer to many different types of savory snack products sold in the United Kingdom  और आयरलैंड  , some made from potato , but may also be made from maize , tapioca or other cereals .
An  उदाहरण of ये  kinds of savory snacks is Monster Munch .
Potato chips are a predominant part of the snack food market in English-speaking  देशों  and numerous other Western nations .
The  वैश्विक आलू चिप  market generated total revenues of US $ 16.4 billion in 2005 .
This accounted for 35.5 % of the total savory  स्नैक्स मार्केट  in that year ( US $ 46.1 billion ) .
Henry Clay , Sr. ( April 12 , 1777 – June 29 , 1852 ) was a  वकील , राजनेता और skilled orator जो represented केंटकी in दोनो  the Senate and in the House of Representatives .
He served three different terms as Speaker of the United States House of  प्रतिनिधि  and was also Secretary of State from 1825 to 1829 .
He lost his campaigns for  अध्यक्ष  in 1824 , 1832 and 1844 .
Clay was a dominant figure in both   the First and Second Party systems .
As a leading war hawk in 1812 , he favored war with Britain and  निभाई a significant  role in leading the nation to war in the War of 1812 .
In 1824 he ran for president and lost , but threw his  चुनावी मत to जॉन क्विंसी  Adams , who made him secretary of state as the Jacksonians denounced what they considered a `` corrupt bargain . ''
He ran and lost again in 1832 and 1844 as the candidate of the Whig Party , which he  संस्थापित और प्रायः  dominated .
Clay was the foremost proponent of the American System , fighting for an increase in tariffs to foster industry in the United States , the  उपयोग of संघीय funding to निर्माण और maintain अवसंरचना  , and a strong national bank .
he  opposed the annexation of Texas , fearing it would inject the slavery issue into politics .
Clay also opposed the Mexican-American War and the `` Manifest Destiny `` policy of Democrats ,  जिससे लागत उसे मत in the बंद  1844 election .
Dubbed the `` Great Pacificator , '' Clay brokered important compromises during the  nullification  Crisis and on the slavery issue .
As part of the `` Great  triumvirate `` or `` अमर तिकड़ी , '' साथ  with his colleagues Daniel Webster and John C. Calhoun , he was instrumental in formulating the Missouri Compromise of 1820 and the Compromise of 1850 .
He was viewed as the primary representative of  पश्चिमी रूचि in इस समूह , और थी  given the names `` Henry of the West '' and `` The Western Star . ''
A plantation owner , Clay held slaves during his lifetime but freed them   in his Will .
Abraham Lincoln , the  whig नेता in इलिनोइस  , was a great admirer of Clay , saying he was `` my ideal of a great man . ''
Lincoln  wholeheartedly समर्थित  Clay 's economic programs .
In 1957 , a Senate Committee selected Clay as one  of the पाँच महानतम u.s . सीनेटरों , साथ साथ डेनियल वेबस्टर  , John C. Calhoun , Robert La Follette , and Robert Taft .
BJ 's Wholesale Club , Inc. , commonly referred to simply as BJ 's , is a membership-only warehouse club chain  ऑपरेटिंग on the  United States East Coast , as well as in the state of Ohio .
The company is ranked # 232 on Fortune magazine 's 2010 listing of America 's  500 largest पब्लिक  corporations .
the जादूगर of oz , ज्ञात दौरान उसके शासनकाल as  The Great and Powerful Oz , is the epithet of Oscar Zoroaster Phadrig Isaac Norman Henkel Emmannuel Ambroise Diggs , a fictional character in the Land of Oz , created by American author L. Frank Baum .
The character  थी further popularized  by the classic 1939 movie , wherein his full name is not mentioned .
Kristinia Jamie DeBarge ( ; born March  8 , 1990  ) is an American singer , songwriter , dancer and actress .
She first appeared on national television in 2003 as a contestant on the  अमरीकी आइडल spin-off , अमरीकी  Juniors .
In 2009 , DeBarge signed a contract with the Island  रिकॉर्ड विभाग  Sodapop , releasing her debut album Exposed in July of the same year .
The first single , `` Goodbye `` , reached the top 20 in the US  और कनाडा  .
the सीसे सिंगल ( ``  Cry Wolf '' ) from her untitled sophomore album was released on September 27 , 2012 .
The Hawaii Warriors football team represents the University of Hawaiʻi at Mānoa in NCAA Division  i fbs कॉलेज फ़ुटबॉल  .
The team is coached  by norm  Chow .
It was part of the Western  एथलेटिक सम्मेलन  until July 2012 , when the team joined the Mountain West Conference .
The Hawaii Warriors were the third non-AQ team to play in a BCS bowl game ; losing to Georgia 41–10 in the Sugar Bowl on January 1 , 2008 in New   Orleans , Louisiana .
Marvin Gaye ( April 2 , 1939April 1 ,  1984 ) , born मारविन pentz gay , jr.  , was an American singer-songwriter and musician .
Gaye helped to shape the sound of  motown रिकॉर्ड in the 1960s साथ a स्ट्रिंग of हिट्स  including `` How Sweet It Is ( To Be Loved By You ) `` and `` I Heard It Through the Grapevine `` and duet recordings with Mary Wells and Tammi Terrell , later earning the titles `` Prince of Motown '' and `` Prince of Soul '' .
During the 1970s , Gaye recorded the concept albums What 's Going On and Let 's Get It On and became among the  पहला कलाकारों in motown to ब्रेक दूर इससे the  reins of its production company .
Gaye 's later  रिकार्डिंग  influenced several R & B subgenres such as quiet storm and neo-soul .
Following a period in Europe under a tax exile in  the early  1980s , Gaye released the 1982 Grammy Award-winning hit `` Sexual Healing `` and the Midnight Love album .
Since his death in 1984 , Gaye has been posthumously honored by many institutions ,  सहित the ग्रैमी आजीवन उपलब्धि पुरस्कार  and the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame .
Location of  chernobyl  nuclear power plant
The abandoned city of Pripyat with Chernobyl plant   in the distance
Abandoned  आवास  blocks in Pripyat
The  chernobyl विपत्ति ( , chornobylska  Katastrofa – Chornobyl Catastrophe ) was a catastrophic nuclear accident that occurred on 26 April 1986 at the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant in Ukraine ( then officially the Ukrainian SSR ) , which was under the direct jurisdiction of the central authorities of the Soviet Union .
An explosion and fire released large quantities of  रेडियोसक्रिय  particles into the atmosphere , which spread over much of the western USSR and Europe .
The Chernobyl disaster is widely considered to have been the  worst नाभिकीय शक्ति संयंत्र दुर्घटना in इतिहास , और is एक of तभी  two classified as a level 7 event on the International Nuclear Event Scale ( the other being the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster in 2011 ) .
The battle to contain  the  contamination and avert a greater catastrophe ultimately involved over 500,000 workers and cost an estimated 18 billion rubles .
The official Soviet casualty count of 31  मौतों रै महरूम विवादित  , and long-term effects such as cancers and deformities are still being accounted for .
Mrs.  क्लॉस says अलविदा to उसके husband  as he sets off on his journey in this 1919 postcard
Mrs. Claus is the wife of Santa Claus , the Christmas gift-bringer in North  अमरीकी और  European Christmas tradition .
She is known for making cookies  साथ  the elves and preparing toys with her husband Santa Claus .
Her first name is a mystery , though  वो रै महरूम referred  to as Mary , Jessica , Layla , Annette , Heidi , or Martha .
HijackThis ( also HiJackThis or HJT ) is an open source enumerating tool for Microsoft Windows originally created by Merijn  bellekom  , and later sold to Trend Micro .
The program is notable for targeting browser-hijacking methods , rather than  relying on  a database of known spyware .
It  scans a उपयोक्ता  's computer quickly , and displays browser hijacking locations , showing what entries are there .
HijackThis is used primarily for diagnosis of browser  hijacking , as uninformed  use of its removal facilities can cause significant software damage to a computer .
HijackThis does not remove or detect spyware ; it lists  सबसे आम स्थितियाँ  where browser hijacking activity can occur .
ब्राउजर hijacking  can cause malware to be installed on a computer .
On February 16 , 2012 ,  ट्रेंड सूक्ष्म released the hijackthis  source code as open source and it is now available on the SourceForge site .
Saddle Creek Records  is an  American record label based in Omaha , Nebraska .
Started as a college class project on entrepreneurship , the label was founded by Mike  mogis और जस्टिन  Oberst in 1993 ( as Lumberjack Records ) .
Mogis soon turned over his  भूमिका  in the company to Robb Nansel .
The label is named after Saddle Creek Road , a street that cuts through the east side of midtown Omaha , and the beginnings of a scene whose members included Conor Oberst ( then a solo artist , currently of Bright Eyes , Conor Oberst and the Mystic Valley Band , Desaparecidos and Monsters of Folk ) , Tim Kasher ( then of Slowdown Virginia , currently of Cursive and  the शुभ  Life ) , and others .
Collectively , they were known unofficially  as the `` creekers  '' .
Saddle Creek first appeared in print on a show flyer , offering to `` Spend an  संध्या साथ काठी क्रीक  '' ( later to be the title of the label 's DVD . )
Saddle Creek became an  incorporated एंटिटी as  a result of a class project on entrepreneurship .
वितरण is संभाला by  the Alternative Distribution Alliance , which is under the Warner Music Group umbrella .
Saddle Creek Records continues to be the flagship label of a style of music called `` The Omaha Sound `` ,  characterized by a पतला  country twang .
This is increasingly inaccurate , though ,  साथ the वृद्धि of अधिक  electronic sounds such as those favored by The Faint and Broken Spindles .
The eclectic  ध्वनि of  Saddle Creek 's disparate member bands is somewhat explained by their history ; a number of the original members of the label attended grade school together .
A `` sister label '' , of sorts  , to काठी  Creek is Team Love , started by Conor Oberst in 2004 .
the लेबल खोली बाहें to  their first bands not based in Omaha in 2001 with releases by Now It 's Overhead and Sorry About Dresden .
Other non-Nebraskan artists followed , including Los Angeles 's Rilo Kiley , Eric Bachmann ( formerly leader of Archers of  loaf और कुटिल उंगलियाँ  from North Carolina ) , Georgie James ( Washington D.C. ) , Two Gallants ( San Francisco ) , and most recently Tokyo Police Club ( Toronto ) .
In 2005 , Spend an  संध्या साथ काठी  Creek , a documentary detailing the first ten years of the record label 's history , was released .
The DVD features extensive interviews with the Saddle  क्रीक  bands , archival footage , and rare live performances .
On June 8 , 2007 , the label  खोली  their own music venue named Slowdown ( after the group Slowdown Virginia ) , located in downtown Omaha , Nebraska .
The following is a list of  एपीसोड लिये  the television show Full House .
In total , there were 192 episodes filmed for the show over the course of its  आठ सीज़न , इससे 1987 to 1995  .
Full House is a situation comedy which chronicles a widowed father 's struggles of raising his three young  बेटियां और the जीवनदान कि वे have छुआ  .
The patriarch of the family , Danny ( Bob Saget ) , invites his brother-in-law Jesse ( John Stamos ) and his best friend Joey ( Dave Coulier ) , to help raise his  children  ( Candace Cameron , Jodie Sweetin , and Mary Kate/Ashley Olsen ) , after his wife was killed during an automobile accident involving a drunk driver .
After episodes 88 and 89   , Jesse marries Becky ( Lori Loughlin ) , and they move into the attic .
Then , after episodes 104 and 105 , Becky and Jesse have twin boys  नामित nicky और एलेक्स (  Daniel and Kevin Renteria/Blake and Dylan Tuomy-Wilhoit ) .
The series ends with episode 192 , `` Michelle Rides Again Part 2 '' , when Michelle  loses  her memory and the family tries to restore it .
सूचना  of Stamp Act of 1765 in Newspaper
अमरीकी अखबारों reacted to the स्टैम्प अधिनियम साथ गुस्सा और पूर्वानुमान of the निधन of पत्रकारिता  .
The Stamp Act 1765 ( short title Duties in American Colonies Act 1765 ; 5 George III , c. 12 ) imposed a direct tax by the British Parliament specifically on the colonies of British America , and it required that many printed  सामग्री in the colonies be उत्पादित on stamped  paper produced in London , carrying an embossed revenue stamp .
These printed materials were legal documents , magazines , newspapers and many other  प्रकार  of paper used throughout the colonies .
Like previous taxes , the stamp tax had to  be सशुल्क in मान्य  British currency , not in colonial paper money .
The purpose of the tax was to help pay for troops stationed  in उत्तर अमेरिका बाद the  British victory in the Seven Years ' War .
The British government  लगा कि the colonies यहूद  the primary beneficiaries of this military presence , and should pay at least a portion of the expense .
The Stamp Act met  ग्रेट  resistance in the colonies .
The colonies sent no representatives to Parliament , and therefore had no influence over what taxes were raised , how they were levied  , or कैसा वे होता be खर्च  .
Many colonists  माना it a उल्लंघन  of their rights as Englishmen to be taxed without their consent —consent that only the colonial legislatures could grant .
Colonial assemblies sent  याचिकाएं  and protests .
The Stamp Act Congress held in New  यॉर्क नगर , reflecting  the first significant joint colonial response to any British measure , also petitioned Parliament and the King .
Local protest groups  , led by औपनिवेशिक व्यापारियों और landowners  , established connections through correspondence that created a loose coalition that extended from New England to Georgia .
Protests and demonstrations initiated by  the बेटे of स्वतंत्रता प्रायः turned हिंसक  and destructive as the masses became involved .
Very soon all  स्टैम्प कर वितरकों यहूद सहमे  into resigning their commissions , and the tax was never effectively collected .
विपक्ष to the  Stamp Act was not limited to the colonies .
British merchants and manufacturers , whose exports to the colonies were threatened by colonial economic  समस्याएं exacerbated by the  tax , also pressured Parliament .
The Act was repealed on March 18 , 1766 as a matter of expedience , but Parliament affirmed  इसके शक्ति to legislate  for the colonies “in all cases whatsoever” by also passing the Declaratory Act .
There  followed a श्रेणी of नई  taxes and regulations , likewise opposed by the colonists .
The episode played a major role in defining the grievances and enabling the organized colonial resistance that led to  the अमरीकी क्रान्ति in 1775  .
pt-105  underway .
PT boats were a variety of torpedo-armed fast attack craft used by the  संयुक्त  States Navy in World War II to attack larger surface ships .
`` PT '' is the US hull  वर्गीकरण प्रतीक  for `` Patrol Torpedo '' .
The PT boat squadrons were nicknamed  `` the मच्छर बेड़े  '' .
The Japanese  पुकारा  them `` Devil Boats '' .
The original pre– World War I torpedo boats were  designed  with `` displacement '' hulls .
They displaced up to  300  tons and the top speed was .
The PT boats used in  संसार  War II were built using the planing -type hull form developed for racing boats .
They were  much छोटी ( 30–75 टन  ) and faster ( 35–40 knots ) .
Both types were designed to strike at larger warships with torpedoes , using relatively high speed to get  बंद , और छोटी आकार to avoid होने spotted  and hit by gunfire .
They were much less  महंगी  than large warships .
PT  नौकाएँ  were much faster , smaller , and cheaper than conventional ( displacement hull ) vessels .
During World War II , American PT boats engaged enemy destroyers and numerous other surface craft ,  ranging इससे छोटी नौकाएँ  to large supply ships .
PT boats also operated as gunboats   against enemy small craft , such as armored barges used by the Japanese forces for inter-island transport .
Good Friday is a religious holiday observed primarily by Christians commemorating the crucifixion of Jesus Christ and his death  at कलवारी  .
The holiday is observed during Holy Week as part of the Paschal Triduum on the Friday preceding Easter Sunday , and may coincide with  the यहूदी observance of  Passover .
It is also known as Holy Friday , Great Friday , Black Friday , or Easter Friday , though the latter properly refers to  the  Friday in Easter week .
Based on the details of the Canonical gospels , the Crucifixion of Jesus was most likely to have been  on a शुक्रवार ( the दिन पहले the sabbath  ) ( ) .
The estimated year of the Crucifixion is AD 33 , by two different groups , and originally as AD 34 by  इसहाक़  Newton via the differences between the Biblical and Julian calendars and the crescent of the moon .
A third method , using a completely different astronomical approach based on a lunar Crucifixion darkness and eclipse model ( consistent with Apostle Peter 's reference to a  `` चंद्रमा of रक्त '' in अधिनियमों 2:20  ) , points to Friday , 3 April AD 33 .
The Great  जलाशय  is the largest area of endorheic watersheds in North America .
It is noted for both its arid  शर्तें और इसके जलाशय और दायरा स्थलाकृति कि varies इससे the उत्तर  American low point at Badwater Basin to the highest point of the contiguous United States , less than away at the summit of Mount Whitney .
The region spans several physiographic  विभाजन  , biomes / ecoregions , and deserts .
रास्टर may  refer to:
Raster graphics , graphical techniques using arrays  of पिक्सेल  values
Raster graphics editor , a computer  कार्यक्रम
Raster  स्कैन , the पैटर्न of चित्र  readout , transmission , storage , and reconstruction in television and computer images
rasterisation , or rasterization , परिवर्तन  of a vector image to a raster image
Raster  चित्र प्रोसेसर  , or RIP , a component of a printing system that performs rasterisation
Raster  इन्टरनेट  , a computer interrupt signal
Raster to vector , an image conversion  प्रक्रम
रास्टर बार  , an effect used in computer demos
raster-noton ,  a record label
Rastrum , a device used in  मध्यकालीन म्यूज़िक पांडुलिपियों to  draw staff lines
रास्टर  Document Object , a file format
Beowulf ( ; Old English : ) is a legendary Geatish hero and later turned king in the epic poem named after him , one of the oldest surviving  pieces of literature in  the English language .
The attack on Pearl Harbor ( called Hawaii Operation or Operation AI by the  जापानी इम्पीरियल सामान्य मुख्यालय ( आपरेशन z in नियोजन  ) and the Battle of Pearl Harbor ) was a surprise military strike conducted by the Imperial Japanese Navy against the United States naval base at Pearl Harbor , Hawaii , on the morning of December 7 , 1941 ( December 8 in Japan ) .
From the standpoint of the defenders , the attack commenced at 7:48 a.m. Hawaiian  समय  .
The attack was intended as a preventive action in order to keep the U.S. Pacific Fleet from interfering with military actions the Empire of Japan was planning in Southeast Asia  विरूद्ध विदेशी territories of the संयुक्त  Kingdom , the Netherlands , and the United States .
The base  थी  attacked by 353 Japanese fighters , bombers and torpedo planes in two waves , launched from six aircraft carriers .
All  आठ u.S. नेवी  battleships were damaged , with four being sunk .
Two of these were later raised , and  साथ the बाकी चार repaired  , six battleships returned to service later in the war .
The Japanese also sank or damaged three cruisers , three destroyers , an  anti-aircraft प्रशिक्षण  ship , and one minelayer .
188 U.S. aircraft were  नष्ट ; 2,402  Americans were killed and 1,282 wounded .
Important  आधार संस्थापना ऐसे as the शक्ति स्टेशन , डॉकयार्ड , मेंटेनेंस  , and fuel and torpedo storage facilities , as well as the submarine piers and headquarters building ( also home of the intelligence section ) were not attacked .
Japanese losses were light : 29 aircraft and five midget submarines lost , and 65  servicemen  killed or wounded .
One Japanese  नाविक थी  captured .
The attack came as a profound shock to the American people and  led सीधे to the अमरीकी  entry into World War II in both the Pacific and European theaters .
The following day ( December 8 ) ,  the संयुक्त राज्य  declared war on Japan .
Domestic support for non-interventionism , which had been strong ,  disappeared  .
clandestine support of  Britain ( for example the Neutrality Patrol ) was replaced by active alliance .
subsequent परिचालन by the u.S. prompted जर्मनी और  Italy to declare war on the U.S. on December 11 , which was reciprocated by the U.S. the same day .
There were numerous historical precedents  लिये unannounced सैन्य  action by Japan .
However , the  कमी of कोई  formal warning , particularly while negotiations were still apparently ongoing , led President Franklin D. Roosevelt to proclaim December 7 , 1941 , `` a date which will live in infamy `` .
U.S. Route 85 ( US 85 ) is a north–south United States highway that runs for  in the  Mountain - Northern Plains states of the United States .
The southern terminus of the route is at the United States-Mexico  किनारा in el पासो , टेक्सास , connecting साथ मैक्सिकन  Federal Highway 45 .
The northern terminus is at the United States-Canada border in Fortuna , North  डकोटा , जहाँ the रूट continues  north as Saskatchewan Highway 35 .
In both the  संयुक्त राज्य  and Saskatchewan , Canada the route is known as the CanAm Highway .
Sections of   US 85 are considered part of the Theodore Roosevelt Expressway .
The United States  अध्यक्षीय चुनाव of 1968  was the 46th quadrennial presidential election , held on Tuesday , November 5 , 1968 .
The Republican nominee , former  vice-president रिचर्ड निक्सन , जीती the चुनाव  over the Democratic nominee , incumbent Vice-President Hubert Humphrey .
Nixon ran on a campaign that promised to restore law and order to the nation 's cities , torn by riots   and crime .
Analysts have argued the  चुनाव of 1968 is a realigning चुनाव as  it permanently disrupted the New Deal Coalition that had dominated presidential politics for 36 years .
Coming four years after Democrat Lyndon B. Johnson won in a historic landslide , the election saw the incumbent president forced out of the race and a  रिपब्लिकन निर्वाचित लिये the पहला समय in बारह  years .
It was a wrenching national experience , conducted during a year of violence that included the assassination of civil rights leader Martin Luther King , Jr. , and subsequent race riots across the nation , the assasination of Democratic presidential candidate Robert F. Kennedy , widespread opposition to the Vietnam War across university campuses , and violent confrontations between police  और anti-war प्रदर्शनकारियों at the 1968 लोकतांत्रिक नेशनल सम्मेलन as the लोकतांत्रिक पार्टी विभाजित again और again .
The election  प्रदर्शित the strongest तीसरा पार्टी  effort since 1912 by former Alabama Governor George Wallace , a Democrat .
Because  वालेस 's अभियान opposed संघीय हस्तक्षेप in the  South to end school segregation , he carried the Deep South and ran well in ethnic industrial districts in the North .
This was the last election in which New York  था the सबसे मत  in the electoral college ( 43 votes ) .
After the 1970 census , California gained the  सबसे  electoral votes and has remained the most populous state since then .
This  is  the latest election where a presidential ticket won without carrying the vice presidential candidate 's home state .
Windows Task Manager is a task manager or System monitor application included with the Microsoft Windows NT family of operating systems that provides limited information about computer performance and running applications , processes and CPU usage , commit charge and memory information , network activity and statistics , logged-in users , and system  सेवाएं ( और as प्रायः is the मामला साथ तन्त्र टूल्स provided by microsoft लिये खिड़कियाँ , 3rd पार्टी तन्त्र is उपलब्धियाँ  which fills the requirements more thoroughly , e.g , `` Process Explorer '' , `` Extended Task Manager '' , `` Anvir Task Manager '' , `` Process Hacker '' , and `` System Explorer '' ) .
The Task Manager can also be used to set process priorities , processor affinity , forcibly terminate processes , and shut down , restart , hibernate or  log बंद इससे खिड़कियाँ  .
खिड़कियाँ कार्य  Manager was introduced with Windows NT 4.0 .
Previous  संस्करण of खिड़कियाँ nt शामिल  the Task List application , which had far fewer features .
The task list was capable of listing currently running processes and killing them , or  बनाना a नई  process .
In Windows XP only , a Shutdown menu is also present that allows access  to standby , hibernate , फेरे  off , Restart , Log Off and Switch User .
Earlier versions of Microsoft Windows ( Microsoft Windows 3.x , Windows 95 ,  खिड़कियाँ 98 )  had a program known as tasks to display the programs currently running .
This file was executed by  कार्यशील the taskman.exe  file from the C : \Windows directory .
Kanji ( ; )  हैं the  adopted logographic Chinese characters ( hanzi ) that are used in the modern Japanese writing system along with hiragana ( ひらがな , ) , katakana ( カタカナ , ) , Hindu-Arabic numerals , and the occasional use of the Latin alphabet .
The Japanese term kanji ( ) for the Chinese characters literally means `` Han characters '' and is written using the same characters as the  चाइनीज hanzi  ( ) .
John R Williams ( May 4 , 1782 – October 20 , 1854 ) was an  अमरीकी सिपाही , व्यापारी  , and politician who is most well known for serving as the first mayor of Detroit , Michigan .
In total , he served as  डेट्रॉयट 's  mayor for five other terms .
He also was a brigadier  सामान्य in the संयुक्त राज्य  Army during the Black Hawk War .
A simple dry  चुम्बकीय पोर्टेबल  compass .
A smartphone that can be used as a  कम्पास क्युकी  of the magnetometer inside .
An iPhone that can be used as a  geological कम्पास  because of the 3-axis teslameter and 3-axis accelerometer inside it
A military compass that  थी प्रयुक्त दौरान  World War I .
A compass is a navigational instrument that shows directions in a frame  of सन्दर्भ कि is stationary  relative to the surface of the earth .
The frame of reference defines the four cardinal directions ( or points ) –  north  , south , east , and west .
Intermediate directions are  भी पारिभाषित  .
Usually , a diagram called a compass rose , which shows the directions ( with their names  usually  abbreviated to initials ) , is marked on the compass .
When the compass is in  उपयोग , the रोज़ is लकीर  with the real directions in the frame of reference , so , for example , the `` N '' mark on the rose really points to the north .
Frequently , in addition to the rose or sometimes instead of it , angle markings in degrees are shown on the   compass .
उत्तर corresponds to शून्य डिग्री ,  and the angles increase clockwise , so east is 90 degrees , south is 180 , and west is 270 .
These numbers allow the compass to show  azimuths  or bearings , which are commonly stated in this notation .
The magnetic compass was first invented as a device for divination as early as the  चाइनीज  Han Dynasty ( Since about 206 BC ) .
The compass was used in Song Dynasty China by the military for navigational  orienteering by 1040-1044 , और थी प्रयुक्त  for maritime navigation by 1111 to 1117 .
The use of a compass is recorded in Western Europe  between  1187 and 1202 , and in Persia in 1232 .
The dry compass  थी invented  in Europe around 1300 .
This was supplanted in the early 20th  सदी by the liquid-filled चुम्बकीय  compass .
The Inca Empire or Inka Empire ( Quechua : Tawantinsuyu ) was  the largest साम्राज्य in pre-columbian  America .
the  administrative , political and military center of the empire was located in Cusco in modern-day Peru .
The Inca civilization arose from the highlands of Peru sometime in the   early 13th century .
From 1438 to 1533 , the Incas used a variety of methods , from conquest to peaceful assimilation , to incorporate a large portion of western South America , centered on the Andean mountain ranges , including , besides Peru , large parts of modern Ecuador , western and south central Bolivia , northwest Argentina , north and central Chile ,  और दक्षिणी कोलंबिया into  a state comparable to the historical empires of Eurasia .
The official language of the empire  थी quechua  , although hundreds of local languages and dialects of Quechua were spoken .
the इन्का referred to उनके साम्राज्य as tawantinsuyu जिससे can be अनूदित as the चार regions or the चार संयुक्त प्रांतों  .
There were many local forms of worship , most of them concerning local sacred `` Huacas `` , but  the इन्का नेतृत्व  encouraged the worship of Inti —the sun god—and imposed its sovereignty above other cults such as that of Pachamama .
The Incas considered their King , the Sapa Inca , to  be the `` चाइल्ड of  the sun . ''
The kidneys are organs that serve several essential regulatory roles in most  पशु , सहित vertebrates और कुछ  invertebrates .
They are essential  in the  urinary system and also serve homeostatic functions such as the regulation of electrolytes , maintenance of acid–base balance , and regulation of blood pressure ( via maintaining salt and water balance ) .
They serve the body as a natural filter of the blood ,  और हटाएँ wastes जिससे हैं  diverted to the urinary bladder .
In producing urine , the kidneys excrete wastes such as urea and ammonium , and they are also responsible for the  reabsorption of जल , ग्लूकोज  , and amino acids .
The kidneys also produce hormones including  calcitriol , erythropoietin  , and the enzyme renin .
Located at the rear of the abdominal cavity in the retroperitoneum , the kidneys receive   blood from the paired renal arteries , and drain into the paired renal veins .
Each kidney excretes urine into a ureter , itself a  युग्म  structure that empties into the urinary bladder .
Renal physiology is the study of kidney function , while nephrology is the medical  specialty चिंतित  with kidney diseases .
Diseases of the kidney are diverse , but individuals with kidney  बीमारी अक्सर प्रदर्शक characteristic  clinical features .
Common clinical conditions involving the kidney include the nephritic and   nephrotic syndromes , renal cysts , acute kidney injury , chronic kidney disease , urinary tract infection , nephrolithiasis , and urinary tract obstruction .
Various cancers of the kidney exist ; the most common adult renal cancer is  renal कोशिका कार्सिनोमा  .
Cancers , cysts , and some other renal conditions can be managed with  हटाना of  the kidney , or nephrectomy .
When renal function , measured by glomerular filtration rate , is persistently poor , dialysis and kidney  प्रत्यारोपण  may be treatment options .
Although they are not severely harmful  , गुर्दा पत्थरों  can be painful and a nuisance .
The removal of kidney stones involves ultrasound treatment to break  up the पत्थरों into छोटी टुकड़े , जिससे हैं  then passed through the urinary tract .
One common symptom of kidney stones is a sharp pain in the medial/lateral  खण्ड  of the lower back .
Lockton Companies Inc. is the world 's largest privately held insurance brokerage firm , providing insurance , risk management and  कर्मचारी लाभ  solutions .
in जोड  to its Kansas City , Missouri headquarters , Lockton operates 60 locations in 17 countries .
Lockton is currently  घर to अधिक  than 4,450 Associates worldwide .
The company was founded by Jack Lockton in  1966 और रै चूंकि become  the world’s 9th largest insurance brokerage firm .
Lockton serves a wide array of industries with services that include risk management , casualty , surety ,  पेशेवर indemnity  and more .
For 46 years , Lockton posted extraordinary  सशुल्क विकास  , with global revenues reaching $ 915 million in fiscal 2012 .
Lockton Benefits Group : Lockton’s Employee  benefit’s  team works closely with insurance carriers and administrators to create comprehensive and integrated benefits strategies for clients .
The Lockton Benefits Group provides services including compliance , executive benefits ,  स्वास्थ्य और welfare ,  health risk solutions , retirement and more .
lockton अपनापन : lockton अपनापन , an संबद्ध of  Lockton Companies , meets the insurance needs of affinity groups , franchises , professional organizations , and associations of all sizes .
Lockton  अपनापन offers a किस्में  of insurance product options and programs .
Products include : General Liability ,  पेशेवर देयता  , Property , Workers Compensation , Directors & Officers Liability , Commercial Auto , Specialty Coverage , Excess , Health Plans and more .
Lockton International : Lockton International operates offices in the UK and   Ireland , as well as offices throughout Asia and Latin America .
In Europe , Lockton International is  a संगी in  EOS RISQ , Europe’s leading insurance broking and risk management consultancy .
EOS RISQ is an equity-based European partnership of major independent   insurance brokers with over 3,500 employees based in more than 30 countries in Europe .
Lockton International provides specialized  समाधान लिये निजी  lines , SME’s and major multi-national clients .
White chocolate  is a चॉकलेट  derivative .
It commonly consists of cocoa butter , sugar , milk solids and salt , and is  characterized  by a pale yellow or ivory appearance .
The melting point of cocoa butter , its primary cocoa bean component , is high  पर्याप्त to रखना श्वेत चॉकलेट  solid at room temperature .
Donald Leon `` Don ''  blankenship ( born कूच 14 , 1950 ) थी अध्यक्ष और सीईओ of massey  Energy Co. , the sixth largest coal company ( by 2008 production ) in the United States .
He served in those roles from November 30 , 2000 , until  दिसम्बर 31  , 2010 .
Blankenship is an active financial backer of the Republican party and participant in local and state politics , especially in  उसके घर राज्य of वेस्ट वर्जिनिया  .
He has frequently spoken out publicly  परिचय राजनीती  , the environment , unions , and coal production .
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission filings show  blankenship थी सशुल्क $ 17.8 लाख in 2009  , the highest in the coal industry .
उसके 2009 अदा represents a $ 6.8 लाख उठाएँ over 2008 और लगभग दोगुना उसके मुआवजे पैकेज in 2007  .
Blankenship also received a deferred compensation package valued at  $  27.2 million in 2009 .
On December 3 , 2010 , Blankenship announced that he was retiring as CEO at the end of the year , and would be succeeded by  massey अध्यक्ष बैक्सटर F. phillips  Jr .
Bow Wow is one  of the transcriptions  used in English to describe a dog 's bark .
Bow Wow   may also refer to:
Bow Wow ( band ) ,  a जापानी  hard rock/heavy metal band
Bow Wow ( rapper ) , an American rapper  और  actor
Bow Wow Sauce , a  सॉस  developed in the Cotswolds region of England
Bow Wow Wow  , a uk नई  wave band
`` Bow   Wow '' , a song by The Fiery Furnaces from their 2003 album Gallowsbird 's Bark
`` Bow Wow Blues (  my मामा दावत me जैसे a श्वान ) '' ,  a song composed in the 1920s by Cliff Friend & Nat Osborne
Negligence ( Lat . negligentia , from neglegere , to neglect , literally `` not to pick up something '' ) is a failure to exercise the care that a reasonably prudent person would  कसरत in जैसे हालातों  .
The area of tort law known as negligence involves  नुक़सान caused by carelessness  , not intentional harm .
According to Jay M. Feinman of the  rutgers  University School of Law ;
`` The core idea of negligence is that people should exercise reasonable care when they act by  लेने  account of the potential harm that they might foreseeably cause harm to other people . ''
`` those जो go personally  or bring property where they know that they or it may come into collision with the persons or property of others have by law a duty cast upon them to use reasonable care and skill to avoid such a collision . ''
Fletcher  v rylands  ( [ 1866 ] LR 1 Ex 265 )
through सिविल  litigation , if an injured person proves that another person acted negligently to cause their injury , they can recover damages to compensate for their harm .
Proving a case for negligence can potentially entitle the injured plaintiff to compensation for harm to their body , property , mental well-being , financial  औकात , or अंतरंग संबंध  .
However , because negligence cases are very fact-specific , this general definition does not fully explain the concept of when the law will require one person to  compensate another लिये नुकसान caused by आकस्मिक चोट  .
Further , the law of negligence at common law is  तभी एक पहलू  of the law of liability .
हालांकि resulting क्षतिपूर्ति जरूर be सिद्ध in अनुक्रम to रिकवर मुआवजे in a लापरवाही कार्रवाई , the प्रकृति और extent of those क्षतिपूर्ति हैं नहीं the प्राथमिक फ़ोकस of लापरवाही मामले .
A melanocytic nevus ( also known  as  `` Nevocytic nevus '' ) is a type of lesion that contains nevus cells ( a type of melanocyte ) .
Some sources equate the term mole with  `` melanocytic  nevus '' .
Other sources reserve the term `` mole  '' लिये  other purposes .
The majority of moles appear during the  पहला दो दशकों of a person’s  life , while about one in every 100 babies is born with moles .
Acquired moles are a form of benign neoplasm , while congenital moles , or congenital nevi , are considered a minor malformation or hamartoma  और may be at a उच्चतर रिस्क  for melanoma .
a mole can be either subdermal ( अंतर्गत the स्किन ) or a pigmented विकास on the स्किन , formed ज़्यादातर of a प्रकार of कोशिका ज्ञात as a melanocyte  .
The high concentration of the body’s pigmenting agent , melanin , is responsible for their  अंधेरा रंग  .
Moles are a member of the family of  स्किन lesions ज्ञात  as nevi .
The comprehensive metabolic panel , or chemical screen , ( CMP ; CPT code 80053 ) is a  फलक of 14 रक्त परीक्षण जिससे serves as an  initial broad medical screening tool .
The CMP provides a  अशिष्ट जाँच of गुर्दा फलन , जिगर  function , and electrolyte and fluid balance , but it is far from perfect .
Abnormal values from a CBC may be a result of false positives and thus the CBC may need to be repeated for a patient ( or replaced  with a more  specific test ) .
The CMP is an expanded version of the  मौलिक metabolic  panel ( BMP ) , which does not include liver tests .
A CMP ( or BMP ) can be ordered as  भाग of a दिनचर्या  physical examination , or may be used to monitor a patient with a chronic disease , such as diabetes mellitus or hypertension .
Previous names for the panel of tests have been  chem 12 , रसायन फलक , रसायन  screen , SMA 12 , SMA 20 and SMAC ( Sequential Multiple Analysis - Computer ) .
the परीक्षण हैं  performed on machines based on the AutoAnalyzer invented in 1957 .
Natural  गैस निष्कर्षण  by countries in cubic meters per year .
Natural gas is a naturally occurring hydrocarbon gas mixture consisting primarily of methane , but commonly including varying amounts of other hydrocarbons , carbon  डाइऑक्साइड , नाइट्रोजन , और  hydrogen sulfide .
प्राकृतिक गैस is an उर्जा सोर्स  often used for heating , cooking , and electricity generation .
It is also used as fuel for vehicles and as a chemical feedstock in  the manufacture of प्लास्टिक और अन्य commercially  important organic chemicals .
Natural gas is found in deep underground natural rock formations or associated with other  हाइड्रोकार्बन  reservoirs in coal beds and as methane clathrates .
Petroleum is also another   resource found in proximity to and with natural gas .
Most natural gas was  निर्मित  over time by two mechanisms : biogenic and thermogenic .
Biogenic gas is created by  methanogenic जीवों  in marshes , bogs , landfills , and shallow sediments .
deeper in the धरती , at वृहद तापमान  and pressure , thermogenic gas is created from buried organic material .
Before natural gas can be used as a fuel , it must undergo processing to remove impurities  , सहित जल , to  meet the specifications of marketable natural gas .
The  by-products of  processing include ethane , propane , butanes , pentanes , and higher molecular weight hydrocarbons , hydrogen sulfide ( which may be converted into pure sulfur ) , carbon dioxide , water vapor , and sometimes helium and nitrogen .
Natural gas is often  informally  referred to simply as gas , especially when compared to other energy sources such as oil or coal .
इस  page is about the Imagination Movers band .
For information about the  tv दिखाएँ अभिनीत the  band , see Imagination Movers ( TV series ) .
Imagination Movers is a band formed in New Orleans   , Louisiana , in 2003 .
The lineup includes Rich Collins , Scott Durbin , Dave  poche , और स्कॉट `` smitty  '' Smith .
Members of the  समूह यहूद  longtime friends and neighbors .
The group started as a television/music concept which was  pitched to  local PBS affiliates in New Orleans .
WLAE-TV was the first to take an interest in the group and later introduced them to  बेथ कोर्टनी , the अध्यक्ष &  Chief Executive Officer at Louisiana Public Broadcasting .
Soon after , LPB began airing  one-minute वीडियो उत्पादित  by the Imagination Movers themselves .
The Movers built a sizable regional following by  सेटिंग शैक्षणिक गीतों लिये  kids to melodies and rhythms that adults appreciate as well .
They sold more than 100,000  नक़ल of  their self-produced CDs and DVDs .
Their three indie CDs : `` Good Ideas , '' `` Calling All Movers , '' and `` Eight Feet '' along with their grass roots DVD `` Stir It Up '' have , combined , won fourteen  नेशनल पुरस्कार , इससे ऐसे समूह as the नेशनल  Association of Parenting Publications ( NAPPA ) and Parents ' Choice .
In early 2005 , Disney took notice , and initiated negotiations to  add  the Movers to the company 's roster .
These were  बाधित in अगस्त जब  the flood protection designed and built by the Army Corps of Engineers to protect New Orleans failed .
The resulting floodwater claimed the  बैंड 's दफ्तर , as खूब as the घरों  of Collins , Durbin and Poche – but the deal was signed in the spring of 2006 .
In 2008 , Walt Disney Records introduced the Imagination Movers ' music to the nation with the release of the Movers ' first nationally-released CD , `` Juice Box Heroes  .  ''
In September 2008 , a 30-minute show featuring the group began airing on the Disney Channel 's preschool programming block known as  playhouse डिज़्नी , और  currently airs on Playhouse Disney 's replacement , Disney Junior .
The Movers write and perform all the songs  on उनके  show .
Moreover , the Imagination Movers have received critical kudos for their  सजीव कॉन्सर्ट  performances .
In October 2009 , the Imagination Movers started the  `` सजीव इससे the विचार  Warehouse Concert Tour 2009 '' .
Traveling from mid-October to mid-December 2009 their live performances include lots of their favorite songs   and dancing , as well as video appearances of Warehouse Mouse .
Beginning in early-February 2011 and  wrapping up in  late May 2011 , the Imagination Movers presented their `` In a Big Warehouse Concert Tour , '' playing more than 100 shows in 50+ cities across North America .
From March to October 2012 , the Imagination Movers toured  उत्तर अमेरिका on  their post-Disney `` Rock-O-Matic '' tour .
The show maintained several elements of the original TV concept , such as an on-stage `` idea emergency '' and several sets from their  पुरानी कैटलॉग ; however , साथ the प्रस्थान  of Wendy Calio back to her native Hawaii , the character `` Nina '' , along with her musical numbers , is not present .
The tour  promotes  the Imagination Movers ' new album/DVD release , `` Rock-O-Matic '' , which features all new music from the band .
The album itself is produced independently of Disney and has a notably more mature , contemporary rock-and-roll sound ,  हालांकि स्टिल बहुत  appropriate for children .
Several performance dates were moved to later in 2012 to benefit from the increased exposure of the Imagination Movers TV  दिखाएँ  now playing daily on Disney Junior .
The platypus ( Ornithorhynchus anatinus ) is a semiaquatic mammal endemic to eastern Australia ,  सहित तस्मानिया  .
Together with the four species of echidna , it is one of the five extant species of monotremes , the only mammals   that lay eggs instead of giving birth .
It is the sole living representative of its family (  ornithorhynchidae  ) and genus ( Ornithorhynchus ) , though a number of related species have been found in the fossil record .
The unusual appearance of this egg-laying , duck -billed , beaver -tailed ,  otter -footed स्तनधारी मनोरथ यूरोपीय naturalists  when they first encountered it , with some considering it an elaborate fraud .
It is one of the few venomous mammals , the male platypus having a spur on  the हिन्द पैर कि delivers  a venom capable of causing severe pain to humans .
The unique features of the platypus make it an important subject in the study of evolutionary biology  और a recognisable और iconic प्रतीक of ऑस्ट्रेलिया ; it रै appeared as a  mascot at national events and is featured on the reverse of its 20-cent coin .
The platypus is  the  animal emblem of the state of New South Wales .
Until the early 20th century , it was hunted for its  फर , लकिन  it is now protected throughout its range .
Although captive breeding programmes have had only limited success and the platypus is  vulnerable  to the effects of pollution , it is not under any immediate threat .
The Chupacabra or Chupacabras ( , from chupar `` to  चूस  '' and cabra `` goat '' , literally `` goat sucker '' ) is a legendary cryptid rumored to inhabit parts of the Americas .
It is associated more recently  साथ sightings of an allegedly अनजान  animal in Puerto Rico ( where these sightings were first reported ) , Mexico , and the United States , especially in the latter 's Latin American communities .
The name comes from  the एनिमल  's reported habit of attacking and drinking the blood of livestock , especially goats .
शारीरिक descriptions  of the creature vary .
Eyewitness sightings have been claimed as early as 1995 in  प्यूर्टो रीको , और have चूंकि महरूम reported  as far north as Maine , and as far south as Chile , and even being spotted outside the Americas in countries like Russia and The Philippines .
it is माना a भारी प्राणी , the आकार of a छोटी भालू , साथ a पंक्ति of कांटे reaching इससे the गर्दन to the आधार  of the tail .
Sighting reports of the Chupacabra have been disregarded as uncorroborated or lacking evidence , while most reports in northern Mexico and the southern United States  have महरूम सत्यापित as  canids afflicted by mange .
Biologists and wildlife management officials   view the chupacabra as a contemporary legend .
The North American Free Trade Agreement ( NAFTA ) is an agreement signed by Canada , Mexico , and the United States , creating a  trilateral व्यापार bloc in उत्तर अमेरिका  .
The agreement  आए into  force on January 1 , 1994 .
It superseded the Canada–United States Free Trade Agreement  between the u.S.  , Canada , and Mexico
NAFTA has two supplements : the North American Agreement on Environmental  सहयोग ( naaec ) और  the North American Agreement on Labor Cooperation ( NAALC ) .
Thermal comfort is the condition  of दिमाग कि expresses संतोष  with the thermal environment and is assessed by subjective evaluation ( ANSI / ASHRAE Standard 55 ) .
Maintaining this standard of thermal comfort for occupants of buildings or other enclosures is one of  the महत्वपूर्ण लक्ष्य of hvac ( हीटिंग  , ventilation , and air conditioning ) design engineers .
The Predicted Mean Vote  ( pmv ) मॉडल स्टैंड  among the most recognized thermal comfort models .
It was developed using principles of heat balance and  प्रायोगिक आंकड़ा एकत्रित  in a controlled climate chamber under steady state conditions .
Because the PMV model was derived from data collected in a controlled climate , it is not suitable for applications in naturally ventilated spaces which often have  ऊँची स्तर of एयर गति .
This shortcoming motivated the  विकास of a परिवार  of empirical statistical models of thermal comfort in naturally ventilated spaces known as adaptive models .
Adaptive models of thermal comfort consider occupants as dynamically interacting with their  पर्यावरण , और controlling उनके  thermal comfort by means of clothing or window-opening and closing .
इस is in कंट्रास्ट to थर्मल सुकून in sealed इमारतें , in जिससे occupants अनुभव the पर्यावरण passively .
Thermal comfort is affected by heat conduction , convection ,  विकिरण , और evaporative  heat loss .
Thermal  सुकून is कायम  when the heat generated by human metabolism is allowed to dissipate , thus maintaining thermal equilibrium with the surroundings .
It has been long recognized that the sensation of feeling  hot or ठंडा is नहीं बस  dependent on air temperature alone .
Thermal comfort calculations according  to ansi/ashrae  Standard 55 can be freely performed with the CBE Thermal Comfort Tool for ASHRAE-55 .
Durante degli Alighieri , simply referred to as Dante ( , ; ; c. 1265–1321 ) , was a major Italian poet of  the मध्य आयु  .
His  दैवी कॉमेडी  , originally called ' and later called ' by Boccaccio , is widely considered the greatest literary work composed in the Italian language and a masterpiece of world literature .
In Italy he is known as ' ( `` the Supreme Poet ''  )  or just ' .
He , Petrarch and Boccaccio are also known  as `` the तीन स्रोतों  '' or `` the three crowns '' .
Dante is also called the `` Father of  the इतालवी  language '' .
Headquarters ( Kobe  , जापानी  )
( ) is a tire and  रबर  company based in Japan .
It is part of the Sumitomo Group  .
The company traces its origins to 1909 , when the Sumitomo Group made an investment in Dunlop Japan , the newly formed  जापानी subsidiary  of the British company Dunlop Rubber .
Over the years Sumitomo and Dunlop developed a close business relationship , and in 1963 the Sumitomo Group acquired  कंट्रोल of dunlop जापानी और renamed  it Sumitomo Rubber Industries Ltd .
In 1985 , when Dunlop Rubber was taken over by BTR plc , the company acquired the automobile tire assets of  dunlop , सहित the सही to उपयोग  the Dunlop brand on automobile tires .
The acquisition did not include the US and Australian businesses , which were separately owned , but in 1986 Sumitomo also acquired the  dunlop टायर निगम of the us इससे  its management .
In 1997 , Sumitomo formed a joint venture with Goodyear Tire and Rubber  कम्पनी , by जिससे goodyear और sumitomo  agreed to manufacture tires for each other 's markets , including Dunlop branded tires .
As part of the agreement , Goodyear acquired 75 % interests in Dunlop Tyres ,  the uk  company which Sumitomo had formed , and in Dunlop Tire Corporation .
Goodyear and  sumitomo भी  made investments in each other .
आज  , the company makes a wide range of rubber based products , including automobile tires , golf balls and tennis balls .
Microsoft Visual Studio Express is a set of freeware integrated development environments ( IDE ) developed by Microsoft that are lightweight  संस्करण of the microsoft  Visual Studio product line .
Express Editions were conceived beginning with Visual  स्टुडियो 2005  .
The idea of Express editions is to provide streamlined ,  easy-to-use  and easy-to-learn IDEs for users other than professional software developers , such as hobbyists and students .
The Alps are one of the great mountain range systems of Europe stretching approximately across eight Alpine countries from Austria and Slovenia in the  ईस्ट , स्विट्ज़रलैंड , liechtenstein  , Germany , France to the west and Italy and Monaco to the south .
The mountains were formed over hundreds of millions of  सालो as the अफ़्रीकी और  Eurasian tectonic plates collided .
Extreme shortening caused by the event resulted in marine sedimentary rocks rising by thrusting and folding  into ऊँची पहाड़ चोटियों  such as Mont Blanc and the Matterhorn .
Mont Blanc spans the  french–italian  border , and at is the highest mountain in the Alps .
The Alpine region area  contains अनेक चोटियों  higher than , known as the `` four-thousanders `` .
the ऊँचाई और आकार of the दायरा affects the जलवायु in यूरोपीय ; in the kyu वर्षण स्तर vary greatly और climatic शर्तें consist of पृथक  zones .
Wildlife such as ibex live in  the उच्चतर चोटियों to  elevations of , and plants such as Edelweiss grow in rocky areas in lower elevations as well as in higher elevations .
Evidence of human  habitation in  the Alps goes back to the Paleolithic era .
A mummified man , determined to be 5,000 years old , was discovered on a glacier at the  austrian–italian किनारा in  1991 .
By the 6th century BC , the  सेल्टिक la tène  culture was well established .
Hannibal may have crossed the Alps   with a herd of elephants , and the Romans had settlements in the region .
In 1800 Napoleon crossed one of the mountain  गुजरता  with an army of 40,000 .
The 18th and 19th centuries saw an influx  of naturalists  , writers , and artists , in particular the Romantics , followed by the golden age of alpinism as mountaineers began to ascend the peaks .
In World War II the Third Reich invaded the Alpine countries , with the exception of Switzerland and Liechtenstein ; Adolf Hitler kept a base of operation in  the bar ऐल्प्स  throughout the war .
the अल्पाइन  region has a strong cultural identity .
The traditional culture of farming , cheesemaking , and woodworking still  exists  in Alpine villages , although the tourist industry began to grow early in the 20th century and expanded greatly after World War II to become the dominant industry by the end of the century .
The Winter Olympic Games have been hosted in the Swiss , French ,  इतालवी , आस्ट्रिया और  German Alps .
At present the region  is घर to 14 लाख  people and has 120 million annual visitors .
Lois Patrice Griffin (  née pewterschmidt ) is a अक्षर इससे  the animated television series Family Guy .
She  is voiced  by writer Alex Borstein and first appeared on television , along with the rest of the family in the 15-minute short on December 20 , 1998 .
Lois was created and designed by series  निर्माता सेठ  MacFarlane .
MacFarlane was asked to pitch a pilot to the Fox Broadcasting Company based on Larry and Steve , a  छोटी बना by macfarlane जिससे प्रदर्शित  a middle-aged character named Larry and an intellectual dog , Steve .
After the pilot was given the green light  , the  Griffin family appeared on the episode `` Death Has a Shadow `` .
Lois is  the  mother of the Griffin family .
With her husband Peter  ,  she has had three children : Meg , Chris , and Stewie .
Lois is often portrayed as a  stereotypical टेलीविज़न  mother , despite her admitting to being a drug user , a recovering meth addict kleptomaniac .
Lois has also had  अनेक अफेयर्स , एक of जिससे  allegedly resulted in the conception of Meg .
She has appeared in other media  relating to परिवार guy—including  a video game , commercials and books—and inspired an entire line of merchandise .
Lois 's distinctive New York accent originated from a character in a stage show that Alex Borstein had performed in , which was largely inspired by  a सापेक्ष जो grew up on long द्वीप  , New York .
Family  हस्तांतरण  of Basque language ( Basque as initial language )
Percentage of students registered in  बास्क  language schools ( 2000–2005 ) .
स्थान of the  Basque-language provinces within Spain and France
Basque ( endonym : , ) is the ancestral language of the Basque people , who inhabit the Basque Country , a region spanning an area in northeastern Spain  और southwestern  France .
it is बोला  by 27 % of Basques in all territories ( 714,136 out of 2,648,998 ) .
Of these , 663,035 live in the Spanish   part of the Basque country and the remaining 51,100 live in the French part .
In academic discussions of the distribution of Basque in Spain and France , it is customary to refer to three  प्राचीन प्रांतों in फ़्रांस  and four Spanish provinces .
Native speakers are concentrated in a contiguous area including parts of the Spanish autonomous communities of the Basque Country and Navarre and in the western half of the French département  of pyrénées-atlantiques  .
The Basque Autonomous Community is an administrative entity within the binational ethnographic Basque Country incorporating  the परंपरागत स्पेनी प्रांतों  of Biscay , Gipuzkoa , and Álava , which retain their existence as politico-administrative divisions .
These provinces and many areas of Navarre are heavily populated by ethnic Basques , but Basque was , at least until the 1990s , not spoken as a native language in most of Álava , western parts of Biscay and central and southern areas of Navarre , either because it  था महरूम replaced  by Spanish along the centuries , in some areas , or because it had never been spoken there , in other areas .
In  southwestern फ़्रांस , the प्राचीन  Basque-populated provinces were Labourd , Lower Navarre , and Soule .
They and other regions were consolidated into a single département in 1790 under the name  basses-pyrénées  , a name which persisted until 1970 .
A standardized form of the Basque language , called  euskara batua , थी विकसित  by the Basque Language Academy in the late 1960s .
Euskara Batua was created so that Basque language  could be used—and easily समझा by सब बास्क speakers—in औपचारिक परिस्थितियों (  education , mass media , literature ) , and this is its main use today .
The role of this standard Basque language depends on the linguistic educational model  of  each region and each school .
In most areas of the Spanish Basque Country , the educational Model D , where all subjects are taught in Basque , except `` Spanish language  और साहित्य '' ( जिससे is  taught in Spanish ) is now the predominant model .
In France , the Basque language school Seaska and the association for a bilingual ( Basque and French ) schooling Ikasbi meet a wide range of  बास्क  language educational needs up to the Sixth Form , while often struggling to surmount financial and administrative constraints .
Apart from this standardized version , there are five main  बास्क dialects : bizkaian , gipuzkoan ,  and Upper Navarrese in Spain , and Navarrese–Lapurdian and Zuberoan ( in France ) .
Although they take their names from the mentioned historic provinces , the dialect boundaries are not  congruent साथ प्रांत सीमाएँ  .
The President , Directors and Company , of the Bank of the United States , commonly known as the First Bank of the United States , was a central bank , chartered for a term of  बीस  years , by the United States Congress on February 25 , 1791 .
Establishment of  the बैंको थी शामिल  in a three-part expansion of federal fiscal and monetary power ( along with a federal mint and excise taxes ) championed by Alexander Hamilton , first Secretary of the Treasury .
Hamilton believed a  सेंट्रल बैंको थी जरुरी to stabilize  and improve the nation 's credit , and to improve handling of the financial business of the United States government under the newly enacted Constitution .
Officially  प्रस्तावित to the  first session of the First Congress in 1790 , Hamilton 's Bank faced widespread resistance from opponents of increased federal power .
Secretary of State  Thomas Jefferson  and James Madison led the opposition , which claimed that the bank was unconstitutional , and that it benefited merchants and investors at the expense of the majority of the population .
The First Bank building is now a National Historic Landmark  स्तिथ in फिलाडेल्फिया  , Pennsylvania within Independence National Historical Park .
James Wesley Marsters ( born August  20 , 1962 ) is an  American actor and musician .
marsters पहला आए to the ध्यान of the सामान्य पब्लिक playing the लोकप्रिय अक्षर स्पाइक , a platinum-blond yobbish अंग्रेज़ी पिशाच in the टेलीविज़न श्रेणी buffy the पिशाच slayer और इसके spin-off श्रेणी , देवदूत , इससे 1997  to 2004 .
Since then , he has gone on to play other science fiction roles , such as the alien supervillain Brainiac on the  सुपरमैन -inspired श्रेणी  Smallville , the omnisexual time traveller Captain John Hart in British science-fiction show Torchwood and terrorist Barnabas Greeley in Sci fi 's Caprica .
Marsters  appeared  in a supporting role in the 2007 movie P.S .
I Love You and as the main antagonist , Piccolo , in the 2009   fantasy adventure film Dragonball Evolution .
He  appeared as a पुनरावर्ती  character in the first season of the revival of Hawaii 5-0 .
In molecular biology , human chorionic gonadotropin ( hCG ) is a hormone produced by the fertilized egg  बाद धारणा  .
Later during  pregnancy  it is made by the developing placenta , and later by the placental component syncytiotrophoblast .
Some  cancerous tumors  produce this hormone ; therefore , elevated levels measured when the patient is not pregnant can lead to a cancer diagnosis .
however  , it is not known whether this production is a contributing cause or an effect of tumorigenesis .
The pituitary analogue of hCG , known as luteinizing hormone ( LH ) , is produced in the pituitary gland of  males और महिलाओं of सब आयु  .
, the FDA has prohibited the sale of `` homeopathic '' and over  the काउंटर hcg आहार उत्पाद  and declared them fraudulent and illegal .
Beyoncé Giselle Knowles-Carter , known by her  stage name  Beyoncé ( ; born September 4 , 1981 ) , is an American singer , songwriter , dancer , and actress .
Born and raised in Houston , Texas , she performed in singing and dancing competitions as a child before forming in 1990 a group with Kelly Rowland and  latavia roberson कि थी  eventually named Destiny 's Child .
Once signed to Columbia Records , the  लड़कियों  subsequently became one of the world 's best-selling girl groups of all time .
The group was plagued by internal conflict and legal turmoil and Knowles  suffered इससे  depression that lasted for a number of years .
During the group 's hiatus , Knowles released her debut solo album  dangerously in प्रेम  ( 2003 ) , which earned her five Grammy Awards and has sold a total of 4.9 million copies in the US alone .
It spawned Billboard number one singles `` Crazy in Love , '' considered by  VH1 to be the  `` Greatest Song Of the 00 's , '' and `` Baby Boy . ''
Following the disbandment of Destiny 's Child in 2005 , Knowles 's second solo album B'Day ( 2006 )  contained  the top five singles `` Déjà Vu `` , `` Irreplaceable `` , and `` Beautiful Liar `` .
उसके प्रदर्शन  in Dreamgirls ( 2006 ) earned her two Golden Globe nominations .
Knowles ' work playing Etta  जेम्स in  that film inspired her subsequent album I Am ...
Sasha Fierce ( 2008 ) which spawned hits ``  if i  Were a Boy `` , `` Single Ladies ( Put a Ring on It ) `` , `` Halo `` , and `` Sweet Dreams `` .
The album also helped Knowles earn six Grammys in 2010 , breaking the record for  सबसे ग्रैमी  Awards won by a female artist in one night .
Her fourth album 4 ( 2011 ) deviated towards traditional R & B and became her fourth  लगातार क्रमांक  one album on the Billboard 200 .
In January 2012 , Knowles gave birth to daughter Blue Ivy Carter  , उसके पहला चाइल्ड साथ  husband Jay-Z .
Knowles has sold over 13  लाख एल्बम in  the US and 118 million records worldwide ( as well as a further 50 million records with Destiny 's Child ) , and is one of the best-selling music artists of all time .
the रिकॉर्डिंग  Industry Association of America ( RIAA ) recognized Knowles as the Top Certified Artist of the 2000s .
In 2009 ,  बिलबोर्ड  named her the Top Radio Songs Artist of the decade and ranked her the Top Female Artist and the fourth Artist of the Decade .
Beyoncé Knowles is the most nominated woman in Grammy Award history , receiving 17 awards ; other accolades include 12 MTV Video Music Awards , 7 Billboard Awards   including a Millennium Award , and a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame as part of Destiny 's Child .
`` Angry All the Time '' is the title of a song written by Bruce  robison और पहला  recorded on his 1998 album Wrapped .
It was later covered by  टिम mcgraw साथ अतिथि  vocalist Faith Hill .
Released in July 2001 , McGraw 's version was the second single  इससे mcgraw  's Set This Circus Down album .
The  सोंग पहुँचे  Number One on the Billboard Hot Country Singles & Tracks ( now Hot Country Songs ) charts .
Dear John is a 2010 American romantic drama - war  फिल्मी अभिनीत अमांडा seyfried और चेनिंग  Tatum .
It was released theatrically in North  अमेरिका on फ़रवरी 5  , 2010 .
The film was directed by Lasse Hallström ,  और it is an अनुकूलन  of Nicholas Sparks 's novel of the same name .
It follows the  जीवन of a सिपाही  ( Channing Tatum ) after he falls in love with a young woman ( Amanda Seyfried ) .
They decide to exchange letters to each other after he is  तैनात to the युद्ध  .
The movie was  फिल्माया in 2009  in Charleston , South Carolina .
despite receiving  negative reviews , the film made a strong box office performance , knocking off Avatar after seven weekends in first place and grossing a total of $ 114,977,104 worldwide .
The film was released on May 25 , 2010 on DVD  और blu-ray .
These are lists of the busiest  एयरपोर्ट  in the United States .
Hartsfield–Jackson Atlanta  अंतरराष्ट्रीय विमानक्षेत्र is the  busiest single airport in the United States .
However , all of the New York City metropolitan area 's airports combine to create the largest airport system in the United States , second in the world in terms of passenger traffic , and first in  the संसार in शर्तें of कुल उड़ान परिचालन  .
Dora the Explorer is an American  एनिमेटेड  television series created by Chris Gifford , Valerie Walsh , and Eric Weiner .
Dora the Explorer  became  a regular series in 2000 .
The show is carried on the Nickelodeon cable television network ,  सहित  the associated Nick Jr. channel .
It aired on CBS until  सितंबर  2006 .
A Spanish-dubbed version first aired as part of a Nick en español block on NBC Universal -owned Telemundo through September 2006 ; since April 2008 , this  संस्करण  of the program has been carried on Univision as part of the Planeta U block .
Santa Fe ( ; ( Tewa : Ogha  po'oge , ) ) is the पूंजी  of the U.S. state of New Mexico .
It is the  fourth-largest  city in the state and is the seat of .
सांता fe  ( meaning “holy faith” in Spanish ) had a population of 67,947 in the 2010 census .
It is the principal city of a Metropolitan Statistical Area which encompasses all of Santa Fe County and is part of  the larger albuquerque-santa  Fe-Las Vegas Combined Statistical Area .
The city’s  पूरा नाम जब संस्थापित थी  La Villa Real de la Santa Fé de San Francisco de Asís ( “The Royal Town of the Holy Faith of St. Francis of Assisi” ) .
Pepsi ( stylized in lowercase as  पेप्सी ,  formerly stylized in uppercase as PEPSI ) is a carbonated soft drink that is produced and manufactured by PepsiCo .
Created and developed in 1893 and introduced as Brad 's Drink , it  थी renamed as pepsi-cola  on August 28 , 1898 , then to Pepsi in 1961 .
1765  broadside
The Sons of Liberty was a group consisting of  अमरीकी देशप्रेमी कि originated  in the pre-independence North American British colonies .
The group  थी formed  to protect the rights of the colonists and to take to the streets against the taxes by the British government .
They are best known for undertaking the Boston Tea Party in 1773 , which led to the Intolerable Acts ( an intense crackdown by the British government ) , and a counter-mobilization by the  देशप्रेमी  .
ओसाका  castle
is a city in the Kansai region of Japan 's main island of Honshu , a designated city under the Local Autonomy Law , the capital city of Osaka  प्रीफ़ेक्चर और भी the largest भाग of the keihanshin metropolis , जिससे comprises तीन  major cities of Japan , Kyoto , Osaka and Kobe .
Located   at the mouth of the Yodo River on Osaka Bay , Osaka is Japan 's third largest city by population after Tokyo ( special wards ) and Yokohama .
Keihanshin is the second largest metropolitan area in Japan by population and one of the largest metropolitan areas  अत्यधिक क्रमित in the संसार , साथ nearly  19 million people , and by GDP the second largest area in Japan and the seventh largest area in the world .
Historically the commercial center of Japan , Osaka functions as one of the  कमांड centers लिये  the Japanese economy .
The ratio  between दिन और रात्रि समय जनसांख्यिकी is 141 % , the उच्चतम in जापानी , highlighting इसके औकात as an आर्थिक बीच .
Its nighttime population is 2.6 million , the third  in the देश , लकिन in दिन the जनसांख्यिकी surges to 3.7 लाख , दूसरी तभी बाद टोकियो  ( combining the special wards of Tokyo , which is not a single incorporated city , for statistical purposes ; see the Tokyo article for more information on the definition and makeup of Tokyo ) .
Osaka used to be referred to as the in feudal Edo period because it was the centre of trading for rice , creating the first modern futures  एक्सचेंज मार्केट  in the world .
The Little Mermaid is a 1989 American animated musical fantasy film produced  by वॉल्ट डिज़्नी विशेषता एनिमेशन  and distributed by Walt Disney Pictures .
Based on the Danish fairy tale by Hans Christian Andersen , The Little Mermaid tells the  स्टोरी of a खूबसूरत  mermaid who dreams of becoming human .
Written , directed , and produced by Ron Clements and John Musker , with music by Alan Menken and Howard Ashman , the film features the voices Jodi Benson , Christopher Daniel Barnes , Pat Carroll , Samuel E. Wright , Jason Marin ,  केनेथ मंगल , दोस्त hacket , और रेने auberjonois  .
The 28th film in the Walt Disney Animated Classics series ,  the छोटी  Mermaid was released to theaters on November 14 , 1989 to largely positive reviews , garnering $ 84 million at the box office during its initial release , and $ 211 million in total lifetime gross .
After the success of  the 1988 डिज़्नी / amblin फिल्मी जो  Framed Roger Rabbit , The Little Mermaid is given credit for breathing life back into the art of Disney animated feature films after a string of critical or commercial failures produced by Disney that dated back to the early 1970s .
It also marked the  प्रारंभ of  the era known as the Disney Renaissance .
A stage adaptation of the film with a book by Doug Wright and additional songs by Alan Menken  और नई गीतों ग्लेन स्लेटर खोली in डेनवर in जुलाई 2007  and began performances on Broadway January 10 , 2008 .
alt=Close-up photo of a metal spoon  भर साथ a viscous  , clear purple fluid
Purple drank is a  कठबोली पद लिये a recreational ड्रग लोकप्रिय  in the hip hop community in the southern United States , originating in Houston , Texas .
Its  main ingredient is  prescription -strength cough syrup containing codeine and promethazine .
Cough syrup is typically mixed  साथ संघटक ऐसे as sprite नरम  drink or Mountain Dew and pieces of Jolly Rancher candy .
The purplish hue of purple drank comes from dyes  in the खांसी सिरप  .
There are numerous slang terms for purple drank , including  sizzurp , झुकना , सिरप , पिया , barre , जामुनी जेली  , Texas tea , and Tsikuni .
First/given , middle , and last/family/surname diagram  साथ J. S. बच as  example .
J. S. Bach shared his given name with six immediate family members and  अनेक विस्तारित परिवार  members .
He shared  उसके परिवार नाम  with most family members .
A given name , in Western contexts  प्रायः referred to as a पहला नाम , is a निजी नाम कि specifies  and differentiates between members of a group of individuals , especially in a family , all of whose members usually share the same family name ( surname ) .
A  दिए नाम is purposefully दिए , प्रायः by  a child 's parents at or near birth , in contrast to an inherited one such as a family name .
A given name  is sometimes  legally changed through a name change .
Given names are  प्रायः प्रयुक्त  in a familiar and friendly manner in informal situations .
In more formal situations the surname is used instead , unless it is necessary to  फर्क between  people with the same surname .
The  मुहावरा `` on a first-name आधार '' ( or `` on first-name शर्तें '' ) alludes to the अपनेपन of संबोधित another by a दिए नाम .
The western style of  having दोनो  a family name ( surname ) and a given name is far from universal .
In many countries it is  आम  for ordinary people to have only one name ( a mononym ) .
Hydrochloric acid is a clear ,  colourless  solution of hydrogen chloride ( H Cl ) in water .
It is a highly corrosive , strong  खनिज एसिड साथ  many industrial uses .
Hydrochloric acid is found naturally in  gastric  acid .
Historically called muriatic acid , and  आत्माओं of नमक  , hydrochloric acid was produced from vitriol ( sulfuric acid ) and common salt .
It first appeared during the Renaissance , and then it was used by chemists such as Glauber , Priestley and Davy in their  वैज्ञानिक  research .
With major production starting in the Industrial Revolution , hydrochloric  एसिड is प्रयुक्त in  the chemical industry as a chemical reagent in the large-scale production of vinyl chloride for PVC plastic , and MDI / TDI for polyurethane .
It has numerous smaller-scale applications ,  सहित household सफ़ाई , उत्पादन  of gelatin and other food additives , descaling , and leather processing .
About 20  लाख  tonnes of hydrochloric acid are produced annually .
Wheat ( Triticum spp . ) is a cereal grain , originally from the Levant region of the  निकट ईस्ट और  Ethiopian Highlands , but now cultivated worldwide .
In 2010 , world  उत्पादन of गेहूं थी 651 लाख टन , बनाना  it the third most-produced cereal after maize ( 844 million tons ) and rice ( 672 million tons ) .
Wheat was the second most-produced cereal in 2009 ; world production in that year was 682  लाख टन , बाद मक्का  ( 817 million tons ) , and with rice as a close third ( 679 million tons ) .
This grain is grown on more land area  than कोई  other commercial food .
World  व्यापार  in wheat is greater than for all other crops combined .
Globally , wheat is the leading source of vegetable protein in human food , having a higher protein  सामग्री than  soybeans or the other major cereals , maize ( corn ) or rice .
In terms of total production tonnages used for food , it is currently second to rice as the main human food crop and  ahead of  maize , after allowing for maize 's more extensive use in animal feeds .
Wheat was a key factor enabling the emergence of city-based societies at the  प्रारंभ of सभ्यता क्युकी it थी  one of the first crops that could be easily cultivated on a large scale , and had the additional advantage of yielding a harvest that provides long-term storage of food .
Wheat contributed to the emergence of city-states  in the fertile crescent , सहित  the Babylonian and Assyrian empires .
Wheat grain is a staple food used to make flour for leavened , flat and steamed breads , biscuits , cookies , cakes , breakfast cereal ,  पास्ता , नूडल्स , couscous  and for fermentation to make beer , other alcoholic beverages , or biofuel .
Wheat is planted to a limited extent as a forage crop for livestock , and its straw  can be प्रयुक्त as a निर्माण सामग्री  for roofing thatch .
The whole grain can be milled to leave just the  भ्रूणपोष लिये  white flour .
The by-products of this are  चोकर  and germ .
The whole grain  is a concentrated सोर्स of विटामिन  , minerals , and protein , while the refined grain is mostly starch .
मुद्रण
To  प्रकाशित  is to make content available to the general public .
While specific use of the term may vary among countries , it is usually applied to text , images , or other audio-visual content on any traditional medium , including paper (  अखबारों , मैगज़ीन  , catalogs , etc . ) .
The word publication means the act of publishing , and also  refers to कोई  printed copies .
Melissa & Joey is an ABC Family original television series  starring Melissa  Joan Hart and Joey Lawrence .
It first aired on ABC Family on  अगस्त 17  , 2010 .
The series follows local politician Mel Burke ( Melissa Joan Hart ) and Joe Longo ( Joey Lawrence ) , whom Mel hires to look after her  भांजी  and nephew after a Ponzi scheme leaves him broke .
The series was renewed by ABC  परिवार लिये  a second season of fifteen episodes , which began airing on May 30 , 2012 and ended on August 29 , 2012 .
मेलिसा & जॉय बाँधने  as cable TV 's # 1 telecast at 8 o'clock across target audiences 18–34 , 18–49 and 12–34 demographics .
On August 17 , 2012 , ABC Family renewed Melissa & Joey for a third season , set to  प्रीमियर  in spring 2013 .
The Dharma wheel , often  प्रयुक्त to  represent the Noble Eightfold Path
The Noble Eightfold Path ( , )  is एक of the प्रिंसिपल शिक्षाओं of the बुद्ध  , who described it as the way leading to the cessation of suffering ( dukkha ) and the achievement of self-awakening .
It is used to develop insight into the true nature   of phenomena ( or reality ) and to eradicate greed , hatred , and delusion .
The Noble Eightfold Path is the fourth of the Buddha 's Four Noble Truths ; the first element of the  प्रतिष्ठित eightfold पाथ is , in फेरे , an समझना  of the Four Noble Truths .
It is also known as the Middle  Path  or Middle Way .
All eight elements of the Path begin with the word `` right  '' , जिससे translates the शब्द  samyañc ( in Sanskrit ) or sammā ( in Pāli ) .
These denote completion  ,  togetherness , and coherence , and can also suggest the senses of `` perfect '' or `` ideal '' .
'Samma  ' is भी अनूदित  as `` wholesome '' , `` wise '' and `` skillful '' .
In Buddhist symbolism , the Noble Eightfold Path is often represented by  अर्थात् of the धर्मं व्हील ( dharmachakra  ) , whose eight spokes represent the eight elements of the path .
The Grammy Award for Song of the Year is an honor presented at the Grammy Awards , a ceremony that was  स्थापित in 1958 और originally पुकारा the  Gramophone Awards .
Awards in several categories are distributed  annually by the नेशनल अकादमी of रिकॉर्डिंग कला  and Sciences of the United States to `` honor artistic achievement , technical proficiency and overall excellence in the recording industry , without regard to album sales or chart position . ''
Economics is the social science that analyzes the production ,  वितरण , और  consumption of goods and services .
The term economics comes from the Ancient Greek ( ' , ``  प्रबन्धन  of a household , administration '' ) from ( ' , `` house '' ) + ( ' , `` custom '' or `` law '' ) , hence `` rules of the house ( hold ) '' .
Political economy was the earlier name for the subject , but economists in the late 19th century suggested `` economics '' as a shorter term for `` economic science '' that also avoided a narrow political-interest connotation and as  समान in रूप to `` गणित  `` , `` ethics '' , and so forth .
A focus of the  विषय is कैसा  economic agents behave or interact and how economies work .
Consistent with this , a primary textbook distinction is between  microeconomics  and macroeconomics .
microeconomics examines the बर्ताव of मौलिक तत्व in the अर्थव्यवस्था , सहित व्यक्तिगत एजेंटों ( ऐसे as households और firms or as खरीदार और विक्रेता ) और बाज़ार , और उनके interactions .
Macroeconomics analyzes the entire economy and issues affecting  it , सहित बेरोजगारी  , inflation , economic growth , and monetary and fiscal policy .
Other broad distinctions include those between positive economics ( describing ``  कया is '' ) और normative अर्थशास्त्र ( वकालत `` कया ought  to be '' ) ; between economic theory and applied economics ; between rational and behavioral economics ; and between mainstream economics ( more `` orthodox '' and dealing with the `` rationality-individualism-equilibrium nexus '' ) and heterodox economics ( more `` radical '' and dealing with the `` institutions-history-social structure nexus '' ) .
Economic analysis may be applied throughout society , as in business , finance , health care , and government , but also to such diverse subjects  as अपराधों , शिक्षा  , the family , law , politics , religion , social institutions , war , and science .
At the turn of the 21st century , the expanding domain of economics  in the सोशल sciences  has been described as economic imperialism .
An increasing number of economists have called for increased emphasis on  पर्यावरणीय  sustainability ; this area of research is known as Ecological economics .
This is a list of Schedule IV drugs under the  नियंत्रित substances अधिनियम लिये  the United States .
Required findings for  दवाएँ to be  placed in this schedule:
The drug or other substance has a low potential for abuse relative to  the दवाएँ or अन्य substances in  schedule III .
the ड्रग or अन्य पदार्थ  has a currently accepted medical use in treatment in the United States .
Abuse of the drug or other substance  may सीसे to सीमित  physical dependence or psychological dependence relative to the drugs or other substances in schedule III .
The complete list of Schedule IV drugs  हैं as फ़ॉलो  .
The Administrative  नियंत्रित substances  Code Number for each drug is included .
US county household  मध्य  income 2009 .
Median US  household  income , 2001-2011
Household   income is a measure commonly used by the United States government and private institutions .
Each household is measured by the income of   every resident over the age of 15 .
Income includes wages and salaries , unemployment insurance , disability payments , child support payments received , regular rental receipts , as well as any personal business , investment ,  or अन्य kinds of  income received routinely .
While inflation-adjusted ( `` real '' ) household income had been increasing almost every year from 1945 to 1999  ,  it has since been flat and even decreased recently .
U.S. median household income  गिरी इससे $ 51,144 in  2010 to $ 50,502 in 2011 .
Extreme poverty in the United States , meaning households living on less than $ 2 per day before government benefits , doubled from 1996 to 1.5 million households in 2011 , including  2.8 लाख children  .
The residents of the household do not have to be related to the head of the household for their  आय to be माना भाग  of the household 's income .
As households tend to share a similar economic context , the use of household  आय remains  among the most widely accepted measures of income .
That the size of a household is not  commonly लिया into खाता in ऐसे उपायों may विकृत कोई विश्लेषण  of fluctuations within or among the household income categories , and may render direct comparisons between quintiles difficult or even impossible .
The lapse rate is defined  as the रेट  of decrease with height for an atmospheric variable .
The variable  शामिल  is temperature unless specified otherwise .
The terminology arises   from the word lapse in the sense of a decrease or decline .
While  सबसे प्रायः लागू to धरती 's माहौल  the concept can be extended to any gravitationally supported ball of gas .
Blue Mountain  राज्य is an अमरीकी कॉमेडी  series that premiered on Spike on January 11 , 2010 .
The series producers  include  Chris Romano and Eric Falconer , and it is produced by Lionsgate Television .
The series is about a fictional university , Blue Mountain State , and its football team , `` The  पहाड़ बकरियों  . ''
It portrays certain aspects of American university life , including football , sex , binge drinking ,  दवाएँ ,  wild partying , and hazing .
In February 2012 , it was reported that  ब्लू पहाड़  State would not be renewed for a fourth season .
In March 2013 , Ed Marinaro stated that he is working on  a ब्लू  Mountain State film .
Apple Inc. , formerly Apple Computer , Inc. , is an American multinational  निगम headquartered in cupertino , कैलिफ़ोर्निया  that designs , develops , and sells consumer electronics , computer software and personal computers .
Its best-known hardware products are the Mac line of computers , the iPod music  player ,  the iPhone smartphone , and the iPad tablet computer .
Its software includes the OS X and iOS operating   systems , the iTunes media browser , the Safari web browser , and the iLife and iWork creativity and production suites .
The company was founded on April 1 , 1976 ,   and incorporated as Apple Computer , Inc. on January 3 , 1977 .
The word `` Computer '' was removed from its name on  जनवरी 9 , 2007 , reflecting इसके shifted  focus towards consumer electronics after the introduction of the iPhone .
ठहराना is the संसार 's second-largest  information technology company by revenue after Samsung Electronics , and the world 's third-largest mobile phone maker after Samsung and Nokia .
Fortune magazine named Apple the most admired company in the United  राज्य in 2008 , और in the  world from 2008 to 2012 .
However , the company has received criticism for its contractors ' labor practices , and for  ठहराना 's अपना पर्यावरणीय और कारोबार  practices .
, Apple maintains 394 retail stores in fourteen  देशों  as well as the online Apple Store and iTunes Store .
It is the second-largest publicly traded corporation in the world by market capitalization , with an estimated value of US  $ 414 अरब as of जनवरी  2013 .
, the company had 72,800 permanent full-time   employees and 3,300 temporary full-time employees worldwide .
Its worldwide annual  आय in 2012  totalled $ 156 billion .
Section 8  आवास  in the South Bronx
Section 8 of the Housing Act of 1937 ( ) , often simply known as Section 8 , as repeatedly amended , authorizes the payment of  rental आवास सहायता to निजी  landlords on behalf of approximately 3.1 million low-income households .
It operates through several programs , the largest of which , the Housing  चुनाव वाउचर कार्यक्रम , pays a विशाल portion of the  rents and utilities of about 2.1 million households .
The US Department of Housing and Urban Development manages the Section 8  कार्यक्रम  .
The Housing Choice Voucher Program provides ``  tenant-based '' rental  assistance , so a tenant can move from one unit of at least minimum housing quality to another .
It also allows individuals to apply their monthly voucher towards the purchase of a home , with over $ 17  अरब going towards ऐसे purchases  each year ( from ncsha.org analysis ) .
The maximum allowed voucher is  $ 2200 a  month .
Section 8 also authorizes a variety of `` project-based '' rental assistance programs , under which the owner reserves some or all of the units in a building for low-income tenants , in return for a Federal government guarantee to make up the difference  between the किरायेदार 's योगदान  and the rent for 1 cent in the owner 's contract with the government .
A tenant who leaves a  subsidized प्रोजेक्ट होगा खोना  access to the project-based subsidy .
The United States Department of Housing and Urban Development and United States Department of Veterans Affairs have a special Section 8 program called VASH ( Veterans  अफेयर्स supportive आवास )  , or HUD-VASH , which gives out a certain number of Section 8 vouchers to eligible homeless and otherwise vulnerable US armed forces veterans .
Restaurants categorized by type and information  परिचय ये  different types .
U.S. Federal Reserve  टीप in  the mid-1990s
The history of  the संयुक्त  States dollar covers more than 200 years .
