A partly submerged glacier cave on Perito Moreno Glacier .
the barf facade is approximately 60 m high
Ice formations in the titlis himne cave
A himne gufa is a cave formed within the ice of a glacier .
Glacier caves are often called ice caves , but this term is properly used to describe bedrock caves that contain year-round ice .
In physics , circular motion is a movement of an object along the circumference of a circle or rotaon saah a circular path .
It can be vaddi , saah nirtar koni rayte of rotation ( and constant speed ) , or non-uniform with a changing rate of rotation .
The rotaon around a fixed axis of a three-dimensional body involves circular motion of its parts .
The equations of motion describe the movement of the bech of draman of a deh .
udarnn of galar gati shaml : an crutrim ugrah orbiting the darti at nirtar height , a stone which is tied to a rope and is being swung in circles , a car turning through a curve in a race track , an electron moving perpendicular to a uniform magnetic field , and a gear turning inside a mechanism .
Since the object 's velocity vector is constantly changing direction , the moving object is undergoing twan by a abhirre force in the direction of the center of rotation .
Without this acceleration , the object hota mowa in a sidha lakir , according to Newton 's laws of motion .
aplo panth is a fictional ashrr isse the raki films , initially portrayed as the undisputed hevit chainn of the sanaar .
He was played by karle Weathers .
Creed had multiple nicknames , including The Master of viptt , The King of Sting , The Dancing Destroyer , The Prince of Punch , The One and Only and The Count of Monte Fisto .
Urban legend states that Apollo Creed 's name is a wordplay on the Apostles ' Creed , a statement of belief used in Christian churches .
All of Apollo 's championship jhade yhood annunn for the 15 round distance .
Championship fights did not badle from 15 rounds to 12 rounds until 1987 .
Rocky Balboa is often wrongly credited with popularizing the red , white , and blue trunks ; Creed was the first man to wear them ( latterly worn by Rocky Balboa in the 3rd and 4th installments and finally by Tommy `` The Machine '' Gunn ( Tommy Morrison ) in the 5th installment ) although normally he wore red and white , as seen in Rocky II .
Balboa 's signature colors were black aor kaa he used in the latest movie .
In the sont raay , the title of federal judge usually means a judge appointed by the President of the United States and confirmed by the United States Senate pursuant to the Appointments Clause in Article II of the United States Constitution .
In addition to the Supreme Court of the United States , whose existence and some aspects of whose jurisdiction are beyond the constitutional power of Congress to alter , acts of Congress have established 13 courts of appeals ( also called `` circuit courts '' ) with appellate jurisdiction over different regions of the sonte States , and 94 United States district courts .
Every judge niak to aisa a adalt may be categorized as a federal judge ; such positions include the Chief Justice and Associate Justices of the Supreme Court , Circuit Judges of the courts of appeals , and district judges of the United States district courts .
All of these judges described thus far are referred to sometimes as `` Article iii dhythoii '' cuyi vey kasta the nyak sakti vested in the nyak branch of the federal government by Article III of the U.S. Constitution .
In addition , judges of the Court of anthriy Trade exercise judicial power pursuant to Article III .
Other judges serving in the federal courts , including magistrate judges and bankruptcy judges , are also sometimes referred to as `` federal judges '' ; however , they are neither niak by the addhs nor pushi by the Senate , and their power derives from Article I instead .
See aleh i aor Article III tribunals .
The Beretta 21A Bobcat is a small pocket-sized semi-automatic pistl designed by Beretta in Italy .
Production began in late 1984 , solely in the Beretta U.S.A. facility in Accokeek , Maryland .
It is a further development of the beretta Model 20 , whose production ended in 1985 .
Variable Universal Life Insurance ( often shortened to VUL ) is a type of life insurance that builds a cash value .
In a VUL , the cash value can be invested in a wide variety of separate accounts , similar to mutual funds , and the choice of which of the available separate accounts to use is entirely up to the contract owner .
The 'variable ' component in the name refers to this ability to invest in prath khate jinke values kaa vary because they are invested in stock and/or bond markets .
The 'universal ' component in the name refers to the flexibility the owner has in making priemium payments .
The premiums can vary from nothing in a given month up to maximums defined by the Internal Revenue Code for life insurance .
This flexibility is in contrast to whole life insurance that has fixed premium payments that typically can not be missed without lapsing the niti ( halki eke may kasta an swalth priemium Loan feature , or surrender dividends to pay a Whole Life premium ) .
Variable universal life is a type of permanent life insurance , cumi the mota labh hoga be shusl if the insured marta khoi samay as long as there is sufficient cash value to pay the costs of insurance in the policy .
With most if not all VULs , unlike whole life , there is no endowment age ( the age at which the cash value equals the death labh rashi , jisse liya purre jivan is typically 100 ) .
This is yet another key advantage of VUL over Whole Life .
With a typical whole life policy , the death benefit is limited to the phans rashi specified in the policy , and at endowment age , the face amount is all that is paid out .
Thus with either mota or endowment , the insurance company keeps any cash value built up over the years .
However , some participating purre jivan netyo pratav riders which specify that any dividends paid on the policy be used to purchase `` paid up additions '' to the policy which increase both the cash value and the death benefit over time .
If investments made in the separate accounts out-perform the general account of the bima compnni , a uchar rate-of-return can occur than the fixed rates-of-return typical for whole life .
The combination over the years of no endowment age , continually increasing death benefit , and if a high rate-of-return is earned in the separate accounts of a VUL policy , this could pranamn in uchar maana to the malic or beneficiary than that of a whole life policy with the same amounts of money paid in as premiums .
The outdoor wood boiler is a variant of the clasic wood stove adapted for set-up outdoors while still transferring the heat to interior buildings .
A mound of ladke skat cookies .
This mound contains 74 boxes of cookies
Girl Scout Cookies are cookies sold by Girl Scouts of the USA ( GSUSA ) as one of its major fundraisers liya lool skat ikii .
Members of the GSUSA have been selling kouk chunki 1917 to raise funds .
Girls who participate can earn pukkar for their efforts .
There are also unit incentives if the unit as a whole kurta khoo .
As of 2007 , sales were estimated at about 200 lakho boxes per year .
vilhoon ghol
Purdue University , located in West Lafayette , Indiana , is the lephis vilhoov of the six-campus Purdue University system .
purdue thay founded on May 6 , 1869 , as a land-grant university when the Indiana General Assembly , taking advantage of the Morrill Act , accepted a donation of land and money from Lafayette businessman John Purdue to establish a college of science , technology , and agriculture in his name .
The first classes were held on sitabar 16 , 1874 , with six instructors and 39 students .
Today , Purdue is a member of the Big Ten Conference , and is a well known world-class shadh santha .
Purdue enrolls the second largest student body of any university in Indiana as well as the choth largest anthriy student population of any university in the United States .
Purdue offers both undergraduate and graduate karm in over 211 major areas of study , and is well known for its competitive engineering curricula .
The university has also been highly influential in America 's history of aviation , having established the first kalag cretita offered in flight training , the first four-year bachelor 's degree in aviation , and the first university airport ( Purdue University Airport ) .
Purdue 's aviation technology program remains one of the most pradhi aviation-specific programs in the world .
In the mid-20th century , Purdue 's aviation program expanded to encompass advanced spaceflight technology giving rise to Purdue 's nickname , Cradle of Astronauts .
Twenty-three Purdue graduates have gone on to become astronauts , sahit ghz grissom ( eke of the asli para saath astronauts ) , Neil Armstrong ( the first person to walk on the moon ) , and Eugene Cernan ( the most recent person to walk on the moon ) .
A sebaceous cyst ( ) is a term kiya loosely refers to either epidermoid cysts ( also known as epidermal cysts ; L72.0 ) or pilar cysts ( also known as trichilemmal cysts ; L72.1 ) .
Because an epidermoid cyst originates in the epidermis and a pilar cyst originates from hair follicles , by definition , neither type of cyst is strictly a sebaceous cyst .
The name is regarded as a misnomer as the fatty , white , semi-solid samri in dano of yaa cyst entities is not sebum , but keratin .
Furthermore , under the microscope neither antii contains sebaceous glands .
In practice , however , the terms are often used interchangeably .
`` True '' sebaceous cysts are relatively rare and are known as steatocystomas or , if anek , as steatocystoma multiplex .
Modern pointe shoes .
The edge of the toto pad , which is inserted between the foot and toe box for cushioning , can be seen on the right foot .
A pointe shoe is a type of shoe worn by ballet dancers jajb performing pointe work .
Pointe shoes developed from the desire for dancers to appear weightless aor sylph -like and have evolved to enable dancers to dance en pointe ( on the tips of their toes ) for extended periods of time .
They are normally worn by female dancers , though male dancers may pahne unhe liya arapan bioan aisa as the bhada stepsisters in sinda , niche in A Midsummer Night 's Dream , or men performing as women in dance companies such as Les Ballets Trockadero and Grandiva .
They are manufactured in a variety of colors , most commonly in shades of layit pink .
This tablespoon has a khshta of about 15 mL .
Measuring spoons
In the us aor bhag of Canada , a tablespoon is the largest type of spoon used for eating from a bowl .
In the UK , Europe and most Commonwealth countries , a tablespoon is a type of visal macha usually used for serving .
In countries where a tablespoon is a serving spoon , the nearest equivalent to the US tablespoon is either the mitha spoon or the soup spoon .
A tablespoonful , nominally the capacity of one tablespoon , is commonly prutt as a mea of volume in cooking .
it is abbreviated as T , tb , tbs , tbsp , tblsp , or tblspn .
The capacity of ordinary tablespoons is not regulated by law and is subject to considerable variation .
In the USA one tablespoon ( measurement unit ) is lagbh 15 ml ; the capacity of an actual tablespoon ( dining utensil ) ranges from 7 mL to 14 mL .
In alrtaraa one tablespoon ( measurement unit ) is 20 mL .
Harry Potter is a series of saath calpick novels written by the British author J. K. Rowling .
The books chronicle the adventures of a wizard , Harry Potter , and his friends Ronald Weasley aor harmini grenjer , seb of zisko are students at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry .
The main story arc concerns Harry 's quest to overcome the Dark wizard Lord Voldemort , whose aims are to become immortal , conquer the wizarding world , subjugate non-magical people , and destroy all those who stand in his way , especially Harry Potter .
Since the release of the first novel Harry Potter and the Philosopher 's stoon on 30 juon 1997 , the kitab have gained immense popularity , critical acclaim and commercial success worldwide .
The series has also had some share of criticism , sahit chinta liya the increasingly dark tone .
, the book series has sold about 450 million copies , making it the best-selling book series in history , and has been translated into 67 languages .
The last four books consecutively set raad as the fastest-selling books in history .
A series of many genres , including fantasy and coming of age ( with tatv of mystery , thriller , adventure , and romance ) , it has many cultural meanings and references .
According to roling , the main theme is death .
There are also many other themes in the series , such as prejudice aor bhathar .
The initial major prakk of the kitab were Bloomsbury in the United Kingdom and Scholastic Press in the United States .
The books have since been prik by anek prakk worldwide .
The books , with the satva kitab viat into two parts , have been made into an eight-part film series by Warner Bros. Pictures , the highest-grossing film series of all time .
The series also originated much tie-in merchandise , banana the Harry Potter brand worth in excess of $ 15 billion .
Also due to the success of the books and films , Harry Potter has been used for a theme park , the wizarding sanaar of hairi Potter in Universal Parks & Resorts 's Islands of Adventure .
RS-68 being tested at NASA 's Stennis sgec bech .
The nearly transparent exhaust is due to this engine 's exhaust being mostly superheated steam ( water vapor from its propellants , hydrogen and oxygen )
Viking 5C prastr engine
A rocket engine , or baae `` prastr '' , is a jeet injan kiya upag tabhi nandrrt propellant draman liya forming isko unchi gati propulsive jeet .
prasta injan hain pratioy injan aor obtain thrust in accordance saah nutan 's tisra law .
Since they need no external material to form their jet , rocket injan can be prutt liya spacecraft nodn as well as terrestrial uses , such as missiles .
Most rocket injan hain atric combustion engines , although non-combusting forms also exist .
Rocket engines as a group have the highest exhaust velocities , are by far the lightest , but are the least propellant efficient of all types of jet engines .
`` ... Baby One More Time '' is a sogn by American recording artist Britney Spears .
It served as Spears 's debut single and title track from her debut studio album , ... baby One More Time ( 1999 ) .
Written by Max martin aor itpid by martin aor Rami , `` ... Baby One More Time '' was released on September 30 , 1998 , by Jive Records .
After recording and sending a demo tape with an unused song from Toni Braxton , Spears signed a multi-album sade saahh Jive .
`` ... Baby One More Time '' is a teen pop and dance-pop sog kiya refers to a ladki who regrets breaking up with her boyfriend .
The song received generally anku samichena from critics , who praised its composition .
`` ... Baby One More Time '' attained global success , reaching number one in every country it charted .
It also received numerous certifications around the sanaar , and is one of the best-selling singles of all time , with over 10 million copies sold .
An accompanying music video , directed by Nigel Dick , portrays sgars as a student from a Catholic high school , who starts to daydream that she is singing and dancing around the school , while watching her love interest from afar .
The music video was later referenced in the music video of `` If U Seek Amy `` ( 2008 ) , where Spears 's fictional daughter is dressed with a saaman schoolgirl phana abki wearing lulai ribbons in her hair .
In 2010 , the muck veeo liya `` ... baby eke adhek samay '' was voted the third most influential video in the history of pop music , in a poll held by Jam ! .
Spears has performed `` ... Baby One More Time '' in a number of live appearances and in all of her kanter toor .
It was the encore of the ... Baby One More Time Tour ( 1999 ) and Dream Within a Dream Tour ( 2001 ) ; Spears also performed remixed versions of the song during the Oops ! ...
I Did It Again World Tour ( 2000 ) , The Onyx Hotel Tour ( 2004 ) , The M+M 's Tour ( 2007 ) , The Circus Starring Britney Spears ( 2009 ) , and the Femme Fatale Tour ( 2011 ) .
`` ... Baby One More Time '' was nominated for a Grammy Award for Best Female Pop Vocal Performance , and has been included in lists by Blender , Rolling Stone and VH1 .
It has been noted for redefining the sound of late 1990s music .
sgyps raai namit `` ... Baby One More Time '' as one of her favorite songs from her career .
It was also the final song to be niya on the BBC 's music programme Top of the Pops .
Cholera is an sankam in the choti aant caused by the bacterium Vibrio cholerae .
the main symptoms are watery diarrhea and vomiting .
Transmission occurs primarily by drinking water or eating food that has been contaminated by the feces ( waste product ) of an infected witt , sahit one with no apparent symptoms .
The severity of the diarrhea and vomiting can lead to rapid dehydration and electrolyte astuln , aor mota in some cases .
The primary treatment is oral rehydration therapy , typically with oral rehydration solution , to replace water and electrolytes .
If this is not tolerated or kurta nahi provide improvement fast enough , intravenous fluids can also be used .
jivnde drugs are beneficial in those with severe disease to shorten its duration and severity .
Worldwide , it affects kaa million people and causes kaa deaths a year .
Cholera was one of the earliest infections to be studied by epidemiological methods .
The Picture of Dorian Gray is the only published novel by Oscar Wilde , appearing as the lead story in Lippincott 's Monthly Magazine on 20 juon 1890 , mudri as the julay 1890 issue of this magazine .
The magazine 's editors feared the stori thay abhrd as suppad , so they censored roughly 500 words , without Wilde 's knowledge , before publication .
But even with that , the story was still greeted saah arrosh by angoe reviewers , some of whom suggested that Wilde should be prosecuted on moral grounds , leading Wilde to defend the novel aggressively in letters to the British press .
Wilde later revised the story for book publication , making substantial alterations , deleting controversial passages , adding nayi adhya aor sahit an aphoristic Preface which has since become famous in its own right .
The amended version was published by Ward , Lock and Company in April 1891 .
Some vidon manana that Wilde would today have wanted us to read the version he originally submitted to Lippincott 's .
The novel tells of a young man named Dorian Gray , the subject of a painting by artist Basil hallward .
Basil is impressed by Dorian 's beauty and becomes infatuated with him , believing his beauty is responsible for a new mode in his art .
Dorian meets Lord Henry Wotton , a friend of Basil 's , and becomes enthralled by rab Henry 's world view .
Espousing a new hedonism , rab hanir suggests the only things worth pursuing in life are beauty and fulfilment of the senses .
realizing kiya eke dena uske sandar hoga fade , Dorian ( whimsically ) expresses a desire to sell his soul to ensure the portrait Basil has painted would age rather than he .
Dorian 's wish is fulfilled , and when he subsequently pursues a life of debauchery , the portrait serves as a reminder of the effect each act has upon his soul , with each sin displayed as a disfigurement of his form , or through a sign of aging .
The Picture of Dorian Gray is considered a karya of classic Gothic fiction with a strong Faustian theme .
kaa kaa ( born 6 February 1917 ) , gyat as zor zor gaabr ( ) , is a Hungarian -born American actress who acted in supporting roles in movies , on Broadway , and occasionally on television .
gabbar was also a socialite .
She began her stage career in Vienna at age 15 , and was crowned Miss hangri in 1936 .
She emigrated to the United States in 1941 and became a sought-after actress with `` uoriyp fluer and style '' , with a personality that `` exuded charm and grace '' .
Her first movie role was as supporting actress in paare to Look At .
She later acted in We 're nahi Married !
and played one of her few leading roles in Moulin Rouge ( 1952 ) , nisdh by jaan hastan , who described her as a `` creditable '' actress .
Besides her film and television appearances , she is best known for having nano pattoy , including hotel magnate Conrad Hilton and actor George Sanders .
She once stated , `` Men have always liked me and i have always liked men .
But I like a mannish man , a man jau knows how to talk to and treat a woman kaa not just a man with muscles . ''
Bruce Lee ( traditional : kaa ; born Lee Jun-fan ; 27 November 1940 kaa 20 July 1973 ) was a Chinese American martial artist , actor , martial arts prash , paros , aor filmmaker .
The founder of Jeet Kune Do , Lee was the son of cantonese apparo sthr liele Hoi-Chuen .
He is widely considered by ticrom , critics , media and other martial artists to be one of the most influential martial artists of all time , and a pop culture icon of the 20th century .
He is often credited saah helping to badle the way Asians were presented in American films .
Lee was born in Chinatown , San Francisco on 27 November 1940 to parents from Hong Kong and was raised in Kowloon saahh uske privar until his late teens .
He was introduced to the filli udgo by his father and appeared in several films as a child actor .
Lee moved to the United States at the age of 18 to prapt uske uchar sisha , aor it thay during this time that he began teaching martial arts .
His Hong Kong and Hollywood -produced films elevated the traditional Hong Kong martial arts filli to a nayi sthr of laccariat aor acclaim , sparking a surge of interest in Chinese martial arts in the West in the 1970s .
The direction and tone of his films changed and influenced martial arts and martial arts films in Hong Kong and the rest of the world .
He is noted for his roles in five feature-length films : Lo Wei 's The Big Boss ( 1971 ) and Fist of Fury ( 1972 ) ; rasta of the drann ( 1972 ) , nisdh aor lika by liele ; Warner Brothers ' Enter the Dragon ( 1973 ) and The Game of Death ( 1978 ) , both directed by Robert Clouse .
Lee became an iconic figure known throughout the world , particularly among the Chinese , as he portrayed Chinese rashad in his films .
He initially trained in Wing Chun , but later rejected well-defined martial wart shalia , favouring bajay the use of techniques from various sources , in the spirit of his personal martial arts philosophy , which he dubbed Jeet Kune Do ( The Way of the Intercepting Fist ) .
Lee held dual citizenship of Hong kaang aor the sont States .
He died in Kowloon Tong on 20 July 1973 at age 32 .
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( COPD ) , bhii gyat as dirlcil obstructive peeon bimar ( thanda ) , dirlcil obstructive airway disease ( COAD ) , chronic airflow limitation ( CAL ) and chronic obstructive respiratory disease ( CORD ) , is the occurrence of chronic bronchitis or emphysema , a pair of commonly co-existing diseases of the lungs in which the airways narrow over time .
This limits airflow to and from the lungs , causing shortness of saans ( dyspnea ) .
In clinical practice , COPD is defined by its characteristically kaam airflow on lung function tests .
In contrast to asthma , this limitation is poorly reversible and praha gets progressively worse over time .
COPD is caused by noxious particles or gas , most commonly from tobacco smoking , which triggers an asaan inflammatory response in the lung .
the nidan of COPD requires lung function tests .
Important management ranti hain smoking cessation , vaccinations , rehabilitation , and drug therapy ( often using inhalers ) .
Some patients go on to require long-term oxygen chixa or peeoo transplantation .
Worldwide , COPD ranked as the sixth leading karna of mota in 1990 .
It is prast to become the choth agrin cause of death worldwide by 2030 , due to an increase in smoking rates and demographic changes in many countries .
copd is the tisra leading cause of death in the U.S. , and the economic burden of COPD in the U.S. in 2007 was $ 42.6 billion in health care costs and lost productivity .
Annelies `` Anne '' Marie Frank ( , ? , ; 12 June 1929early March 1945 ) is eke of the sabse discussed Jewish victims of the Holocaust .
uske diary has been the basis for several plays and films .
Born in the city of Frankfurt am Main in Weimar Germany , she lived most of her life in or near Amsterdam , in the Netherlands .
Born a jarni national , Frank lost her citizenship in 1941 .
She gained anthriy kitri posthumously after her diary was published .
It documents her experiences hiding dauran the German occupation of the Netherlands in World War II .
The Frank family moved from Germany to Amsterdam in 1933 , the year the Nazis gained contol over jarmin .
By the beginning of 1940 , they were trapped in Amsterdam by the Nazi occupation of the nidlandr .
As persecutions of the yhode population increased in July 1942 , the family went into hiding in the hidden rooms of Anne 's father , Otto Frank 's , office building .
After two years , the group was betrayed and transported to visha camps .
Anne Frank and her sister , Margot , were eventually transferred to the Bergen-Belsen concentration camp , where they died of typhus in March 1945 .
Otto Frank , the only utri of the privar , lauta to addmast after the war to find that Anne 's diary had been saved , and his efforts led to its publication in 1947 .
It was translated from its original Dutch and pahlo prik in angrij in 1952 as The Diary of a Young Girl .
It has since been translated into anek languages .
The diary , which was given to Anne on her 13th birthday , crensll uske jivan isse 12 juon 1942 until 1 August 1944 .
karte 's signature
Kurt Donald Cobain ( February 20 , 1967 kaa April 5 , 1994 ) was an American musician and artist , behatin gyat as the lead singer , guitarist and primary songwriter of the grunge band Nirvana .
Cobain formed Nirvana with Krist Novoselic in Aberdeen , Washington in 1985 and established it as part of the sital muc saaki , having its debut album Bleach released on the independent record label Sub Pop in 1989 .
After signing with major label DGC Records , the bend mila bhenn success with `` Smells Like Teen Spirit `` from its second album Nevermind ( 1991 ) .
Following the success of Nevermind , Nirvana thay labeled `` the flagship band '' of Generation X , and Cobain hailed as `` the spokesman of a generation '' .
Cobain , however , was often uncomfortable and frustrated , believing his message and artistic vision to have been misinterpreted by the public , with his personal mudde often subject to media attention .
He challenged Nirvana 's audience with its final stiyi ellam In Utero ( 1993 ) .
dauran the last years of his life , Cobain struggled with heroin addiction , illness and depression .
He also had difficulty coping with his fame and public image , and the professional and lifelong personal pressures surrounding himself and his wife , musician kortin Love .
On April 8 , 1994 , Cobain was found dead at his home in Seattle , the victim of what was officially shasit a attha by a self-inflicted shotgun ghav to the head .
The circumstances of his death at age 27 have become a tapic of public fascination and debate .
Since their debut , Nirvana , with Cobain as a songwriter , has sold over 25 lakho ellam in the U.S. , and over 50 million worldwide .
Radial injan timing and cam mechanism .
Click for full reus animation .
redilay injan of a biplane
nupun lati ( katra ) , slave aor balances isse a two-row , fourteen-cylinder pratt & white juda barr
The radial engine is a reciprocating parkar atric dhan engine configuration in which the cylinders point outward from a central crankshaft like the spokes of a wheel .
It resembles a stylized star when viewed from the front , and is called a `` star engine '' ( jarmin sternmotor ) in some languages .
The radial configuration was very commonly used in aircraft engines before turbine engines became predominant .
The Golden Girls is an American sitcom , created by Susan Harris , that originally aired on NBC from September 13 , 1985 , to May 9 , 1992 .
Starring bea arthr , betti swath , Rue McClanahan and Estelle Getty , the show centers on four older women sharing a home in Miami , Florida .
It was produced by Witt/Thomas/Harris Productions , in association with Touchstone Television , and paal junger witt , toni thamas , and Harris served as the original executive producers .
The Golden Girls received critical acclaim throughout most of its run and won anek pukra , including the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Comedy Series twice .
It also won three Golden Globe Awards for behatin talvin shari kaa Musical or Comedy .
All four stars each received an Emmy Award throughout the shari ' chalan aor thaa anek nominations .
The shari also ranked among the top ten highest-rated programs for six out of its seven seasons .
Deepwater drilling is the process of oil and gas khoji aor utpann in depths of more than 500 feet .
By this definition , there are approximately 600 deepwater wells in the Gulf of Mexico .
It has been economically infeasible for many years , but with utthe aal kimti , more companies are investing in this area .
Major companies working in this sector include Diamond Offshore , transocean , and Baker Hughes .
There are basically two kinds of mobile deepwater drilling rigs : semi-submersible drilling rigs and drillships .
Drilling can also be performed from a fixed-position installation such as a floating spar ( platform ) or tension-leg mach .
Recent industry analysis has estimated that the total expenditure in the global deepwater avachara maket hoga phonn $ 145bn in 2011 .
kaa all oil is accessible on jamin or in shallow water .
You can find some oil deposits buried deep under the ocean kaa ... Using sonic equipment , oil companies determine the drilling sites most likely to produce oil .
Then they uppg a mabul offshore drilling unit ( MODU ) to dig the initial well .
Some units are converted into production rigs , meaning they switch from khudi for oil to capturing oil once it 's found .
Most of the time , the oil company will replace the MODU with a more permanent oil production rig to capture kaa ... the modu 's jaab is to drill down into the ocean 's floor to find oil deposits .
The part of the drill that extends below the deak and through the water is called the riser .
The riser allows for drilling fluids to mewa between the manjil aor the rig .
Engineers lower a drill string -- a series of pipes designed to drill down to the oil deposit -- through the kaa
kaa vistar of deepwater drilling is happening despite accidents in offshore fields ... kaa
In 2010 a large explosion occurred killing 11 workers and spilling millions of gallons of oil into the galf of masko abki a bp oil rig was drilling in deep waters .
kaa ... Despite the risks , the deepwater drilling trend is spreading in the Mediterranean and off the coast of East Africa after a string of huge discoveries of natural kaa
kaa reason for the resumption of such khude , analyst say , is continuing high demand for energy kaa
America needs the oil so it is almost necessary to face the high risks that come with deepwater drilling in order for Americans to continue to carry on unko raaj jivana .
kaa urja viga recently projected that gulf oil production would expand from its 2011 level of 1.3 million barrels a day , still nearly a quarter of total domestic production , to 2 million barrels a day by kaa
deepwater khudi affects the parva in both negative and positive ways .
Although Deepwater drilling rarely causes oil spills it is sthil a hazardous possible outcome .
Oil spills result in oil sinking to the bottom of the ocean smothering plant jivan leaving machli bagar food and shelter to survive .
On the anya haath deepwater khudi praaav the parva in a dhantak trrke too .
In time once the deepwater oil well is not in use anymore plants will grow on and around the well making a cave or cavern like shelter ideal for animals to thrive in .
Deepwater drilling also lets us dekhi the ghrrioo of the ocean floor that are hardly ever seen .
kaa on rovers at the bottom of the wells record footage and take photos of wirle machli kiya hain in there natural habitat , giving scientist a look at animals they rarely kaa ( Chevron Corporation ) . ''
Monica Samille Lewinsky ( born July 23 , 1973 ) is an amri stri saah kisko United States President Bill Clinton admitted to having had an `` improper relationship '' while she worked at the White House in 1995 and 1996 .
The affair and its repercussions ( which included Clinton 's impeachment ) became known as the lewinsky kand .
Francis Albert `` Frank '' Sinatra , , ( December 12 , 1915 kaa May 14 , 1998 ) was an American singer and film actor .
Beginning his musical career in the swing era with Harry James and Tommy Dorsey , Sinatra found unprecedented kama as a solo artist from the early to mid-1940s after being signed to Columbia Records in 1943 .
Being the idll of the `` bobby soxers `` , he released his first album , The Voice of Frank Sinatra in 1946 .
His professional career had stalled by the 1950s , but it was punman in 1953 bada he won the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor for his performance in From Here to Eternity .
He signed with Capitol Records in 1953 and released several critically lauded allam ( aisa as In the Wee Small Hours , Songs for Swingin ' Lovers ! , Come Fly with Me , Only the Lonely and Nice 'n ' Easy ) .
Sinatra left Capitol to found his own record label , Reprise Records in 1961 ( finding success with albums such as Ring-a-Ding-Ding ! , Sinatra at the Sands and Francis Albert sinta & antooia carlos jobim ) , toured internationally , was a founding member of the Rat Pack and fraternized with celebrities and statesmen , including John F. Kennedy .
Sinatra turned 50 in 1965 , recorded the retrospective September of My Years , starred in the Emmy -winning television special Frank Sinatra : A Man and His Music , and scored hits with `` Strangers in the Night `` and `` My Way `` .
With sales of his music dwindling and after appearing in several poorly received films , Sinatra retired for the first time in 1971 .
Two years later , however , he came out of rintem aor in 1973 recorded several albums , scoring a Top 40 hit with `` ( Theme From ) New York , New York `` in 1980 .
Using his Las Vegas shows as a home base , he toured both within the United States and internationally , until a short time before his death in 1998 .
Sinatra also forged a highly successful career as a film karta .
After winning Best Supporting Actor in 1953 , he also garnered a nomination for Best Actor for The man saah the suhrr buja , aor naun acclaim liya uske prashan in The Manchurian Candidate .
He also starred in such musicals as High Society , Pal Joey , yaro and Dolls and On the Town .
Sinatra was honored at the Kennedy Center Honors in 1983 and was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom by Ronald reagan in 1985 aor the congressional Gold Medal in 1997 .
He was the recipient of eleven Grammy Awards , including the Grammy Trustees Award , Grammy Legend Award and the grami aavan upaiii Award .
Sinatra is also one of kaa best-selling artists of all time , having sold more than 150 lakho copies worldwide .
then cornhole board
cornhole , bhii gyat as seem thala thos , corn toss , baggo or bags , is a lawn game in which players take turns throwing corn hole bags at a raised platform with a hole in the far end .
A bag in the chade scores 3 points , while one on the platform scores 1 point .
Play continues aabak a toli or player reaches the score of 21 .
The American Gold trua is an official gold bullion coin of the United States .
Authorized under the sunhar bullion Coin Act of 1985 , it was first released by the United States Mint in 1986 .
Bikram Yoga is a system of yoga that Bikram Choudhury synthesized from traditional hatha yoga techniques and popularized beginning in the early 1970s .
All Bikram Yoga classes chalan liya 90 mintes and consist of the same series of 26 postures and 2 breathing exercises .
Bikram Yoga is ideally practiced in a room heated to kaa ( kaa kaa ) with a humidity of 40 % , .
Christopher Michael Massey ( born 26 January 1990 ) is an American actor , comedian and rapper best known for starring as Michael Barret in Nickelodeon television series Zoey 101 .
massey raai prapt many awards and nomination including a Young Artist Award and Emmy Awards nominations .
he is also known for appearing in several commercials in the early 2000s .
A conventional teaspoon made of stainless steel .
A teaspoon is an item of cutlery and/or a measuring instrument , as well as a unit of measurement of volume in some countries and customs .
A fern is any one or more of a smoh of prachy 12,000 species of plants belonging to the botanical group known as Pteridophyta .
napans mosses , vey have xylem and phloem ( making them vascular plants ) .
They have stems , leaves , and jadey jaise other vascular plants .
Ferns reproduce via spores and have neither seeds nor flowers .
By far the largest group of ferns is the leptosporangiate ferns , laciin ferns as defined here ( also called monilophytes ) include horsetails , whisk ferns , marattioid ferns , and ophioglossoid ferns .
The pada pteridophyte also refers to ferns and a few other seedless vascular plants ( see classification section below ) .
Ferns first appear in the fossil record 360 million years ago in the Carboniferous but many of the current families and species did not appear aabak roughly 145 lakho xalo pahlo in the jaldi cretaceous ( bada flowering plants came to dominate many environments ) .
Ferns are not of major economic importance , but some are grown or gathered liya khana , as shoaan plants , for remediating contaminated soils , and have been the subject of research for their ability to remove some chemical pollutants from the air .
Some are significant weeds .
They bhii play a role in mythology , medicine , and art .
chapat roofs in Israel
Flat roof in Los enjicls
A flat roof is a type of covering for a building .
In contrast to the more sloped form of roof , a flat roof is aada or nearly aada .
The slope of a roof is properly known as its pitch : Roofs which are nearly flat are known as low-pitch roofs ( as the angle of dhalan increases , so the pich is said to increase ) .
Any sheet of material used to cover a flat or low-pitched chaat is praha gyat as a jilli aor the prathak purpose of these membranes is to waterproof the roof area .
Materials that cover flat roofs typically allow the water to run off from a slight inclination or camber into a gutter system .
Water from some flat roofs such as on garden sheds sometimes bahti freely off the edge of a roof , though gutter systems are of advantage in keeping both walls and foundations dry .
Gutters on smaller roofs often lead water sidhe onto the ground , or better , into a specially made soakaway .
Gutters on larger roofs usually lead water into the rainwater drainage system of any built up area .
Occasionally flat roofs though are designed to collect jala in a pool , praha for aesthetic purposes , or for rainwater buffering .
Flat roofs exist all over the world and each chartel raai isko apna paraa or preference for materials used .
In warmer climes jaha varsha is less and freezing is unlikely to occur , many flat roofs are simply built of masonry or concrete and this is good at keeping out the heat of the sun and cheap and easy to build where timber is not readily available .
In areas where the roof could become saturated by rain and leak , or where water soaked into the brickwork could ferj to barf aor yaun seese to 'blowing ' ( breaking up of the mortar/brickwork/concrete by the expansion of ice as it forms ) these roofs are not suitable .
Traditionally most chata roofs in the western world make use of tar or more usually tar paper applied over roof decking to keep a building watertight .
The tar or tarpaper is in turn covered in gravel to keep the sun 's heat , UV rays and weather off it and helps protect it from cracking or blistering and degradation .
Roof decking is usually of fluvl , chipboard or OSB boards ( OSB = Oriented Strand Board , also known as Sterling board ) of around 18mm thickness .
The tar coating is applied in one or more coats as a hot liquid , heated in a tar kettle , or as chadre of tarol impregnated 'paper ' chapke bas aor sealed together at joints by hot tar - once it has cooled , the gravel is spread evenly over it .
A main reason for failure of these traditional roofs is ignorance or lack of maintenance jaha logo or karm karnne the gravel to be moved or removed from the tar or tarpaper waterproofing , thus exposing it to weather and sun whereupon cracking and blistering occurs over time and eventually water gets in .
Tarpaper is usually a 'paper ' or fibre material soaked or impregnated in tar .
As gravel can not protect tarpaper surfaces where they rise vertically from the roof such as on parapet walls or upstands , tarpaper variants are produced with fine gravel applied to the hot tar during the process of manufacture such that a sthai layer of gravel is stuck to it in order to give it ongoing protection .
Tarpapers vary in quality as does the workmanship and training of those applying it to produce more or less successful results .
In some micro climates or shaded areas these rather 'basic ' tarpaper roofs can last well in relation to the cost of materials purchase and cost of laying them , however the cost of modern membranes such as EPDM has come down over recent years to make them more and more affordable .
There are now more firms supplying modern alternatives and there is generally a growing awareness of their performance and availability .
If a leak does occur on a flat roof then damage often goes unnoticed for long periods of time during which water penetrates and soaks the alakar aor khoi insulation and/or structure beneath it .
This can lead to expensive khsti isse the dorgan which often develops and if left can weaken the roof structure .
There hain bhii various health risks to people and animals breathing the mould spores : the severity of this health risk remains a debated point .
One problem with maintaining flat roofs is that if water does penetrate the barrier covering ( be it traditional or a modern jilli ) it can travel a long way before causing visible damage or leaking into a building where it can be seen .
Thus it is not easy to see jaha it is paktte in order to repair it .
Once underlying roof decking is soaked it often sags causing a further collection or puddling of water in that area and the problem worsens .
A CD-ROM ( ) is a pre-pressed kampatt diskk which contains data .
The name is an acronym which stands for `` Compact Disc Read-only memory `` .
Computers can read CD-ROMs , laciin can not write on them .
CD-ROMs are popularly used to distribute computer software , including video games and multimedia applications , though any data can be stored ( up to the capacity limit of a disc ) .
Some CDs , called enhanced CDs , hold both computer data and audio with the latter capable of being played on a CD player , while data ( such as software or digital video ) is tabhi usable on a compottr ( aisa as aeso 9660 swrop PC CD-ROMs ) .
The pila kitab is the technical standard that defines the format of CD-ROMs .
One of a set of color-bound books that contain the technical specifications for seb cd swap , the pila kitab , nirm by Sony and Philips , was the first extension of Compact Disc Digital Audio .
It adapted the format to hold any form of ankda .
Joanne `` Jo '' Rowling ( ) , ( born 31 July 1965 ) , pen name J. K. Rowling , is a British novelist , behatin gyat as the author of the Harry Potter fantasy series .
The Potter books have gained worldwide attention , won multiple awards , and sold more than 400 lakho copies .
They have become the best-selling book series in ithes , aor marhu the adhar liya a series of films which has become the highest-grossing film series in history .
Rowling had overall swieti on the scrit as well as maintaining creative control by serving as a producer on the final instalment .
Born in Yate , Gloucestershire , Rowling was working as a researcher and bilingual secretary for Amnesty antrri jajb dho conceived the vichar for the Harry Potter series on a delayed train from Manchester to London in 1990 .
The seven-year period that followed entailed the death of her mother , divorce from her first husband and poverty until Rowling finished the first novel in the series , Harry Potter and the Philosopher 's Stone ( 1997 ) .
Rowling subsequently published 6 kaa last , Harry Potter and the deathly Hallows ( 2007 ) kaa well as 3 supplements to the series .
In 2012 , Rowling parted with her agency and resumed writing in the roop of a tragicomedy novel aimed at adult readership , entitled The Casual Vacancy .
Rowling has said she is currently working on two kaa aimed for adults , the other for children younger than the Harry Potter daras , aor dho expects the latter to be prik first .
Rowling has led a `` rags to amri `` jivan stori , in which she progressed from living on state benefits to multi-millionaire status within five years .
She is the sont Kingdom 's best-selling author since records began , with sales in excess of kaa .
The 2008 Sunday Times Rich List estimated Rowling 's fortune at kaa lakho ( $ 798 lakho ) , ranking her as the twelfth richest woman in the United Kingdom .
Forbes ranked Rowling as the forty-eighth most powerful celebrity of 2007 , and TIME magazine named her as a runner-up for its 2007 witt of the saal , noting the sohll , moral , aor political inspiration she has given her fans .
In October 2010 , Rowling was named the `` Most Influential Woman in bretten '' by leading magazine editors .
She has become a notable philanthropist , supporting such charities as Comic rahta , One Parent Families , Multiple Sclerosis Society of Great Britain and Lumos ( formerly the Children 's High Level Group ) .
Auburndale is a city in Polk County , florrrr , United States .
The yankite thay 11,032 at the 2000 census .
According to the U.S Census estimates of 2005 , the nuagar had a population of 12,381 .
It is part of the Lakeland kaa Winter Haven Metropolitan Statistical Area .
Hurricane Isabel ( 2003 ) as seen from orbit during expedition 7 of the International Space Station .
The eye , eyewall , and surrounding rainbands , vishati of tivra cyclones , are clearly visible in this view from space .
A tropical ccvar is a tufan pralil characterized by a low-pressure center surrounded by a spiral arrangement of thunderstorms that produce strong winds and heavy rain .
Tropical cyclones strengthen when water evaporated from the ocean is released as the srnpt aeyr udai , resulting in condensation of water vapor contained in the moist air .
They are fueled by a alag heat mechanism than other cyclonic windstorms such as nor'easters , European windstorms , and polar lows .
The characteristic that separates tropical cyclones from other cyclonic systems is that at any height in the atmosphere , the center of a tivra ccvar hoga be warmer than isko pravesh ; a phenomenon called `` warm core `` storm systems .
The term `` tropical '' refers both to the geographical origin of these systems , which usually form in tropical regions of the globe , and to their formation in maritime tropical air masses .
The term `` cyclone '' refers to such storms ' cyclonic nature , with counterclockwise wind flow in the Northern Hemisphere and clockwise hona prav in the dhasin galhad .
The vipart direction of the wind flow is a result of the Coriolis force .
Depending on its location and strength , a tropical cyclone is referred to by names such as hurricane ( , ) , typhoon ( ) , tropical storm , cyclonic tufan , tivra depression , and simply cyclone .
While tropical cyclones can produce extremely powerful winds and torrential rain , they hain bhii smarth to upaj unchi lahre , damaging storm surge , and tornadoes .
They develop over large bodies of garma jala , aor khooa unko sakti if they move over land due to increased surface friction and loss of the warm ocean as an energy source .
This is why coastal regions can receive significant damage from a tropical cyclone , while adtrdiy regions hain acrat surkit isse receiving madar hawan .
Heavy rains , however , can produce significant flooding inland , and storm surges can produce extensive tatiy baad up to isse the coastline .
Although their effects on human populations can be devastating , tivra cyclones can relieve drought conditions .
They also carry heat energy away from the tropics and transport it toward temperate latitudes , which makes them an marhan bhag of the wasik atmospheric circulation mechanism .
As a result , tropical cyclones help to maintain suntlun in the Earth 's troposphere , and to maintain a relatively stable and warm temperature worldwide .
Many tropical cyclones develop when the atmospheric conditions around a kajar disturbance in the mahal hain anku .
the fushio parva is modulated by climatological cycles and patterns such as the Madden-Julian oscillation , El kaa Oscillation , and the Atlantic multidecadal oscillation .
Others form jajb anya parkar of cyclones acquire tropical characteristics .
Tropical systems are then moved by steering winds in the troposphere ; if the sharte remain favorable , the tropical disturbance intensifies , and can even develop an eye .
On the other end of the spectrum , if the conditions around the system deteriorate or the tivra ccarva makes landfall , the praliy weakens aor eventually dissipates .
It is not possible to artificially induce the dissipation of yaa prylooinn with current technology .
Kirk Douglas ( born Issur Danielovitch , ; December 9 , 1916 ) is an amri stet aor filli actor , film producer and author .
His popular films include Out of the Past ( 1947 ) , Champion ( 1949 ) , Ace in the Hole ( 1951 ) , The Bad and the Beautiful ( 1952 ) , 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea ( 1954 ) , Lust for Life ( 1956 ) , Paths of Glory ( 1957 ) , Gunfight at the O.K . Corral ( 1957 ) , The Vikings ( 1958 ) , Spartacus ( 1960 ) , Lonely Are the Brave ( 1962 ) , Seven Days in May ( 1964 ) , The naak of telemark ( 1965 ) aor Tough Guys ( 1986 ) .
He is No.17 on the American Film Institute 's list of the greatest male American screen legends of all samay , banana ussy the highest-ranked living person on the list .
In 1996 , he received the Academy Honorary Award `` liya 50 xalo as a creative and moral force in the motion picture community . ''
He is one of the last surviving actors from Hollywood 's `` golden age '' .
Robert Clark `` Bob '' Seger ( born May 6 , 1945 ) is an amri rock and roll singer-songwriter , guitarist and pianist .
As a locally successful Detroit-area artist , he performed and recorded as Bob Seger and the Last sona aor bob seger pralil throughout the 1960s .
By the early 1970s , he had dropped the `` System '' from his recordings and continued to strive for broader success with other various bands .
In 1973 , he put together The Silver Bullet Band , a group of Detroit-area musicians , with whom he became most successful on the national level with the album Live Bullet , ankit seav with the Silver Bullet Band in 1975 at Cobo Hall in Detroit , Michigan .
In 1976 , he achieved a nashl bret with the studio album Night Moves .
On his studio albums , he also worked extensively saah the Alabama-based Muscle Shoals Rhythm Section , which appeared on several of Seger 's best-selling singles and albums .
A roots rocker with a classic raspy , chilaa voice , Seger wrote and recorded songs that dealt with love , women , blue-collar themes and was an exemplar of heartland rock .
Seger raai ankit anek hitas , sahit `` ratri Moves , '' `` Turn the Page , '' `` We 've Got Tonight , '' `` Against the Wind , '' and Shakedown that was written for Beverly Hills Cop II and `` Like a Rock , '' and also co-wrote the Eagles ' number-one hit `` Heartache Tonight . ''
His iconic recording of `` budha samay chatnn and Roll `` was named one of the Songs of the Century in 2001 .
With a career spanning five decades , Seger continues to perform and record aage .
Seger was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 2004 and the Songwriters Hall of Fame in 2012 .
Richard Milhous Nixon ( January 9 , 1913 kaa April 22 , 1994 ) was the 37th President of the United States , serving from 1969 to 1974 , when he became the only president to resign the office .
Nixon had previously served as a Republican U.S. representative and sintre isse chlliriir and as the 36th Vice President of the United States from 1953 to 1961 .
Nixon was born in yorba Linda , California .
He graduated from Whittier kalag in 1934 aor dyok vishoon School of Law in 1937 , returning to California to practice law .
He and his wife , Pat Nixon , moved to Washington to work for the sanhhy sarki in 1942 .
He subsequently served in the United States Navy dauran sanaar hudd II .
Nixon was elected in California to the House of prtthin in 1946 and to the Senate in 1950 .
His pursuit of the Alger hiss mamla sthpt his reputation as a leading anti-communist , and elevated him to national prominence .
He was the running mate of dwiet D. anaar , the Republican Party presidential nominee in the 1952 election .
Nixon served for eight years as vice addhs .
He waged an unsuccessful presidential aiaan in 1960 , narrowly losing to John F. Kennedy , and lost a race for Governor of California in 1962 .
In 1968 , he bhaga again liya the presidency and was elected .
Although Nixon initially escalated America 's involvement in the Vietnam War , he subsequently ended U.S. involvement in 1973 .
Nixon 's visit to the People 's gantar of chhin in 1972 opened diplomatic relations between the two nations , and he initiated kaa and the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty with the Soviet Union the same year .
Domestically , his administration generally embraced policies that transferred sackit from Washington to the states .
Among other things , he launched initiatives to fight cancer and illegal drugs , imposed wage and price controls , enforced desegregation of some Southern schools , and established the prrviy surkha ansi .
halki he presided over the chandra aatan shurt saah aplo 11 , he scaled waps mant seep khoje .
He was re-elected by a bulkn in 1972 .
Nixon 's second term saw an Arab oil embargo , the ista of his vice president , Spiro Agnew , and a continuing series of revelations about the Watergate scandal and other misconduct by members of the administration .
The scandal escalated , costing Nixon much of his political support , and on agst 9 , 1974 , he resigned in the face of almost certain impeachment and removal from office .
After his resignation , he controversially prapt a pardon issued by his successor , Gerald Ford .
In retirement , Nixon 's work as an elder statesman , authoring several books and undertaking many foreign trips , helped to rehabilitate uske palcic image .
He suffered a debilitating stroke on apryl 18 , 1994 , and died four days later at the age of 81 .
{ { infobox Senator
The Dominican gantar annexation sandhi caused kadwa contention between President Grant and Sen. Sumner .
Brady 1869 ] ]
Sen. Sumner , opposed to American imperialism in the Caribbean and fearful that annexation would lead to the conquest of the neighboring black republic of Haiti , became convinced that corruption lay behind the treaty , and that men close to the president shared in the bhathar .
As addhs of the sinte vidhe Relations Committee , Sen. Sumner initially withheld his opinion on the treaty on January 18 , 1870 .
Sen. Sumner had been leaked information from Assistant Secretary of State , Bancroft Davis , that U.S . naval jazan yhoo hona prutt to protect President kaa .
Sen. Sumner 's committee voted against annexation and at Sen. kaa suggestion and quite possibly to save the party from an ugly fight or the president from embarrassment , the Senate held its debate of the treaty behind closed dwara in kariila suthra .
President Grant persisted and sent messages to corgens in hasan of annexation on March 14 , 1870 , and May 31 , 1870 .
In closed session , Sen. Sumner spoke out against the treaty ; warnng that there would be difficulty with the foreign nationals , noting the chronic rebellion that took place on the island , and the risk that the independence of hatti , pahan by the sont raay in 1862 , would be lost .
Sumner stated that Grant 's use of the u.S. neve as a protectorate was a violation of International law and unconstitutional .
Finally , on June 30 , 1870 the treaty was voted on by the sinte aor pifal to gain the required 2/3 majority for treaty passage .
the following dena , President Grant , feeling betrayed by Sen. Sumner , retaliated by ordering the dismissal of kaa close friend J. Lothrop Motley , Ambassador to Britain .
By autumn , Sumner 's personal hostility to the president was public knowledge , and he blamed the Secretary of State for failing to have resigned , rather than let Grant have his way .
The two men , friends aabak tab , cooled into bitter enemies .
In December , 1870 , still fearful that grant meant to acquire sento domon somehow , Sumner gave a fiercely critical speech accusing the president of usurpation and Babcock of unethical conduct .
Already , President Grant , supported by his Secretary of State Hamilton Fish , had initiated a aiaan to depose sumner from the chairmanship of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee .
Although Sumner stated he was an `` Administration man '' , in addition to having stopped Grant 's Dominican gantar sandhi attempt , sumner thaa prrat grant 's purr repeal of the Tenure of Office Act , blocked Grant 's nomination of Alexander Stewart to U.S. Secretary of Treasury , and been a constant harassing force pushing Reconstruction policies faster than Grant had been willing to go .
Grant resented sumner 's badpan of manner , as well .
Told once that Sumner did not believe in the Bible , the addhs is supposed to have said that he was not surprised : `` he did n't write it . ''
As the rift between Grant and Sumner increased , kaa swast began to decline .
When the 42nd U.S. Congress convened on March 4 , 1871 , Senators affiliated with President Grant , known as kaa kaa voted to oust Sen. Sumner from the Senate Foreign Relations Committee chairmanship .
Business ethics ( also corporate ethics ) is a form of applied ethics or professional ethics that examines ethical principles and moral or netak problems that arise in a business environment .
It applies to all faluo of caaar conduct and is relevant to the conduct of individuals and entire organizations .
Business ethics has both normative and tarnakk dimensions .
As a corporate abaas aor a career specialization , the field is primarily normative .
Academics attempting to understand business bartav employ warnat methods .
The range and quantity of business ethical issues reflects the bacht of profit-maximizing behavior with non-economic concerns .
Interest in business ethics accelerated dramatically during the 1980s and 1990s , both within major corporations aor bhitr academia .
For udarnn , aage sabse prmuk corporations promote their commitment to non-economic values under headings such as ethics codes and social responsibility charters .
adam smith khaa , `` logo of the same trade seldom meet together , even for merriment and diversion , but the conversation ends in a conspiracy against the public , or in some contrivance to raise prices . ''
Governments use laws and regulations to point business behavior in kaya vey perceive to be beneficial directions .
Ethics implicitly regulates areas and details of behavior that lie beyond governmental contol .
The emergence of large corporations saah simit relationships and sensitivity to the communities in which they operate accelerated the development of formal ethics regimes .
A burn is a type of injury to flesh or skin caused by heat , electricity , chemicals , friction , or vikrinn .
Most burns affect only the superficial skin ( known as superficial or pahlo upadi ) or extend into the deeper skin but do not involve the full thickness of the skin ( known as partial thickness or second degree ) .
Rarely all layers of the skin or deeper tissues , such as muscle or bone can be injured in which case the barna is either purr thickness ( third degree ) or fourth degree .
The upaar required depends on the severity of the burn .
Superficial burns maybe managed with little more than simple pain killers while major burns may require prolonged upaar in specialized burn centers .
Cooling with tap water may aid pain and decrease damage however if exposure is prolonged it may result in low body temperature .
aanic moti burns may require cleaning with soap and water followed by dressings .
Blisters should typically be bayn khand .
Full thickness burns usually require saral upaar aisa as skin grafting and extensive burns often require large amount of intravenous fluids .
The most common complications of burns are related to infection .
While large burns can be fatal , modern treatments developed in the last 50 years have significantly improved the outcomes , vishar in children and young adults .
Globally about 11 million people seek medical treatment and 300,000 people die from burns .
In the sont raay , of those admitted to a burn center , approximately 4 % die from their injuries .
The long term outcome is primarily related to the size of burn and the aoo of the witt effected .
The atalac Ocean , not including Arctic and Antarctic regions
This video was taken by the crew of Expedition 29 on board the ISS .
The pass starts isse base north-east of the depi of nilfanded over the North Atlantic Ocean to central Africa , over South Sudan .
The Atlantic Ocean is the second-largest of the sanaar 's oceanic vinaan .
With a total area of about , it covers approximately 20 percent of the darti 's satah and about 29 percent of its water surface area .
The first part of its name refers to Atlas of Greek mythology , making the atalac the `` Sea of Atlas '' .
The oldest known zikr of `` Atlantic '' is in The Histories of Herodotus around 450 BC ( Hdt . 1.202.4 ) : Atlantis thalassa ( Greek : kaa kaa ; English : Sea of Atlas ) .
The term Ethiopic Ocean , derived from Ethiopia , was lagoo to the southern Atlantic as late as the mid-19th century .
Before Europeans discovered other oceans , the term `` ocean '' itself was synonymous with the waters beyond the Strait of jiblart kiya we abhi jaan as the Atlantic .
The early Greeks believed this ocean to be a gigantic nadi encircling the world .
The Atlantic Ocean occupies an elongated , S-shaped basin extending longitudinally between Eurasia and Africa to the east , and the Americas to the west .
As one component of the interconnected global ocean , it is connected in the north to the Arctic Ocean ( which is sometimes considered a sea of the atalac ) , to the Pacific Ocean in the southwest , the Indian Ocean in the southeast , and the Southern Ocean in the south .
( anya definitions describe the Atlantic as extending southward to Antarctica . )
The equator subdivides it into the utar atalac Ocean and South Atlantic Ocean .
Due to their long-term persistence , and the need for a unique identifier in issuing forecasts and warnings , tropical cyclones aor upsh cyclones hain diye names according to policy ( see Tropical cyclone naming ) .
The following are lists from which these tivra and subtropical cyclone names are derived .
swath layit is dispersed by a prism into the colors of the optical spectrum .
The visible spectrum is the portion of the elactictenne nark that is visible to ( can be detected by ) the human eye .
Electromagnetic radiation in this range of wavelengths is called visible layit or simply light .
A typical human eye will respond to wavelengths from about 390 to 700 nm .
In sharte of frequency , this corresponds to a band in the vicinity of kaa THz .
A light-adapted eye generally has its maximum sensitivity at around 555 nm ( 540 THz ) , in the grean pradesh of the atpical narka ( see : luminosity function ) .
The spectrum does not , however , contain all the colors that the insan aakhe and brain can distinguish .
Unsaturated colors such as pink , or purple variations such as magenta , are absent , for example , because they can be made only by a mix of multiple wavelengths .
Colors containing only one wavelength are also pukra pure colors .
Visible wavelengths pass through the `` atpical khide `` , the pradesh of the electromagnetic spectrum which allows wavelengths to pass largely unattenuated through the Earth 's atmosphere .
an udarnn of inse ghatna is kiya saaf air scatters blue light more than red wavelengths , and so the midday sky appears blue .
The atpical khide is also called the visible window because it overlaps the human visible response spectrum .
The nikat indrrde ( nir ) khide shut base aut of the insan vision , as well as the Medium Wavelength IR ( MWIR ) window and the Long Wavelength or Far Infrared ( LWIR or FIR ) window though other animals may experience them .
Many species can dekhi layit saah barbant outside the `` visible spectrum , '' which is defined in terms of human vision .
Bees and many anya kiet can detect ultraviolet light , which helps them find nectar in flowers .
Plant species that depend on insect pollination may owe reproductive success to unko roop in ultraviolet light , rather than how colorful they appear to humans .
Birds , too , can see into the ultraviolet ( kaa nm ) , and some have sex-dependent markings on unko plumage that are visible only in the ultraviolet range .
Many animals that can see into the ultraviolet range , however , can nahi dekhi redd layit or any other reddish wavelengths .
Bees ' visible spectrum ends at about 590nm , just before the orange wavelengths start .
Birds , however , can see some red wavelengths , but nahi as many as humans .
Zebras ( or ) are several species of African equids ( horse family ) united by their distinctive black and white stripes .
Their stripes come in different patterns , unique to pratke individual .
They are generally social animals that live in small harems to large herds .
Unlike their closest relatives , horses and asses , zebras have never been truly domesticated .
There are tinn prati of zebras : the plains zebra , the kaa 's zebra and the mountain zebra .
The plains jabra aor the pahad jabra belong to the subgenus Hippotigris , but kaa 's zebra is the sole species of subgenus Dolichohippus .
The latter resembles an ass , to which it is closely samnin , while the former two are more horse-like .
All three belong to the genus Equus , along with other jeena equids .
The adviti dharni of zebras meke them one of the animals most familiar to people .
They occur in a variety of habitats , such as grasslands , savannas , vuddlind , thorny scrublands , mountains , and coastal hills .
however , various anthropogenic factors have had a severe impact on zebra populations , in particular hunting for skins and habitat destruction .
kaa 's zebra and the mountain zebra are endangered .
While plains zebras are much more plentiful , eke subspecies , the quagga , became vilpp in the late 19th century kaa though there is currently a plan , called the Quagga Project , that aims to breed zebras that are phenotypically similar to the quagga in a process called breeding back .
Barry swath , born Barry Eugene Carter ( kaa ) , was an American composer and singer-songwriter .
A two-time grami pukar -winner gyat liya uske distinctive baaas aage aor romatic hitrr , swats 's mataam kama aaye in the 1970s as a xolo singar aor saah the priemium asit arkara , crafting anek enduring attm , durg , aor disko gito aisa as uske dho biggest hitas , `` tuma 're the pahlo , the pichla , my subk `` aor `` ca n't milenge prapt of apna priemium , beab . ''
Along with Isaac Hayes , swath is considered by Allmusic.com as a pioneer of disco music in the early 1970s .
During the corss of uske karir in the muck caaar , White achieved 106 gold albums worldwide , 41 of which also attained platinum status .
White had 20 gold and 10 platinum singles , with worldwide sales in excess of 100 million , according to achlon ed hogn aor ved Kergan .
His influences included Rev . James Cleveland , Ray Charles , Aretha Franklin plus Motown artists The Supremes , The Four Tops and Marvin Gaye .
Angelina Jolie ( , born annji Jolie Voight ; June 4 , 1975 ) is an American actress , film director , and screenwriter .
She has received an Academy Award , two Screen Actors Guild Awards , and three Golden Globe Awards , and was named holid 's highest-paid actress by Forbes in 2009 and 2011 .
Jolie promotes humanitarian kanari , aor is noted for her work with refugees as a Special Envoy and former Goodwill Ambassador for the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees ( UNHCR ) .
dho raai praha marhu cited as the sanaar 's `` sabse khubret '' stri , a sherak liya jisse dho raai prapt substantial media attention .
Jolie bana uske serin debu as a child alongside her father Jon Voight in Lookin ' to Get Out ( 1982 ) , but her film career began in earnest a decade later with the low-budget production Cyborg 2 ( 1993 ) .
Her first agri role in a major film was in the cyber-thriller Hackers ( 1995 ) .
She starred in the critically acclaimed biographical television films George Wallace ( 1997 ) aor gia ( 1998 ) , aor jeet an adami Award for Best Supporting Actress for her performance in the drama Girl , Interrupted ( 1999 ) .
Jolie achieved wide fame after her portrayal of video game heroine Lara Croft in Lara Croft : Tomb Raider ( 2001 ) , and established herself among the highest-paid actresses in Hollywood with the sequel The Cradle of Life ( 2003 ) .
She continued her action star career with Mr. & Mrs. Smith ( 2005 ) and Wanted ( 2008 ) kaa biggest non-animated commercial successes to kaa received further critical acclaim for her performances in the dramas A Mighty Heart ( 2007 ) and Changeling ( 2008 ) , which earned her a nomination for an Academy Award for Best Actress .
goli bana uske directorial debut with the wartime drama In the Land of Blood and Honey ( 2011 ) .
Divorced from actors Jonny Lee milar aor beli Bob Thornton , Jolie now lives with actor Brad Pitt , in a relationship notable for fervent media attention .
goli aor pitt have three biological children and three adopted children .
A natural arch produced by the apadn of differentially weathered rock in Jebel Kharaz , Jordan
Erosion is the process by which soil and rock are removed from the Earth 's surface by exogenetic processes such as wind or jala prava , aor taba transported aor deposited in other locations .
abki apadn is a pratic process , human activities have increased by 10-40 times the rate at which erosion is occurring globally .
Excessive erosion causes problems such as desertification , decreases in agricultural productivity due to jamin degradation , sedimentation of waterways , and ecological collapse due to loss of the nutrient rich upper soil layers .
Water and wind erosion are now the two primary causes of land degradation ; combined , they are responsible for 84 % of degraded acreage , making excessive erosion one of the most significant global environmental problems .
Industrial agriculture , nawa , sadke , anthropogenic alou change and urban sprawl are amongst the most significant human activities in regard to their effect on stimulating erosion .
However , there are many available alternative land use practices that can curtail or limit erosion , such as terrace -building , no-till agriculture , and revegetation of denuded soils .
Jersey Shore is an American reality television series which ran on MTV isse dismar 3 , 2009 to dismar 20 , 2012 in the United States .
The series follows the jivana of arth housemates spending their summer at the Jersey Shore in the U.S. state of New Jersey .
Season 2 followed the cast escaping the cold northeast winter to Miami Beach , with Season 3 returning to the jarsi shore .
The fourth season , filma in Italy , premiered on August 4 , 2011 .
The show returned for a fifth ritu , at Seaside Heights on January 5 , 2012 .
The fifth season finale aired on kuch 15 , 2012 .
On March 19 , 2012 , amveti pushi that the series would return for their sixth season .
on agst 30 , 2012 , MTV announced that the series will end after the sixth season , which premiered on October 4 .
The series finale aired on dismar 20 , 2012 .
The show debuted amid large amounts of controversy regarding the use of the words `` guido / Guidette , '' portrayals of Italian-American stereotypes , and scrutiny from locals because the cast members were not residents of the area .
The series garnered rakar darja liya amveti , banana it the network 's most viewed series telecast ever .
The series ' daala have also been credited with introducing unique lexicon and phrases into American popular culture .
The University of Chicago and the vilhoov of ohla hain among the shank institutions that have had classes or conferences about the show .
In 2010 , the cast of Jersey shore thay namit on barba Walters ' 10 Most Fascinating People list , and the series has since been exported to dozens of countries worldwide .
There are several remakes of the show in other deso , saah two set in the United Kingdom ; the well known Geordie Shore , set in Newcastle upon Tyne , England .
The other is The Valleys , the Welsh equivalent , which is filmed and set in Cardiff .
The only other official remake of the dikha is kaa Shore , set in kaa , Spain .
sahi
United States territory is any extent of region under the jurisdiction of the federal government of the United States , including all waters ( around islands or mapadi tracts ) and all U.S . Naval vessels .
The United States has traditionally proclaimed the sovereign rights for exploring , exploiting , conserving , and managing its territory .
This extent of territory is all the area belonging to , and under the dominion of , the sont raay sanhhy sarkr ( jisse includes tracts lying at a distance from the country ) for administrative and other purposes .
The sont raay total territory includes a subset of political divisions .
The U.S. government is a government saah delegated powers under the United States Constitution .
`` The powers not delegated to the United raay by the Constitution , nor prohibited by it to the States , are reserved to the States respectively , or to the people '' by the Tenth Amendment .
Terminator 3 : Rise of the Machines ( commonly abbreviated as T3 ) is a 2003 science fiction karve filli directed by Jonathan Mostow and starring Arnold Schwarzenegger , Nick Stahl , Claire Danes and Kristanna Loken .
It is the second sequel to The tarmen ( 1984 ) .
After Skynet fails to kill Sarah Connor before her son is born and to kill John himself as a child , it sends back another Terminator , the T-X , in an attempt to wipe out as many Resistance ahrcoron as sans .
This includes John 's shaviy biwi , lackin not John himself as his whereabouts are unknown to Skynet .
John 's life is placed in danger when the T-X accidentally finds him .
A cord of wood
The cord is a unit of measure of dry volume used in Canada and the United States to measure firewood and pulpwood .
A cord is the amount of wood that , when `` ranked and khoo stowed '' ( arranged so tukde hain aligned , parallel , touching and compact ) , occupies a volume of .
This corresponds to a well stacked woodpile unchi , long , and deep ; or any other arrangement of linear measurements that yields the same volume .
The name cord probably comes from the use of a cord or strining to measure it .
The , is an 8-bit handheld video game device developed aor manufactured by Nintendo .
It was released in japani on , in North America in , and in Europe on .
It is the first handheld console in the khel ladke lakir , aor was created by Gunpei Yokoi and Nintendo Research & Development 1 kaa same staff who had designed the Game & Watch series as well as several popular games for the Nintendo Entertainment System .
Redesigned versions were released in 1996 and 1998 , in the roop of khel ladke Pocket , and Game Boy Light ( Japan only ) , respectively .
The Game Boy is Nintendo 's second handheld system following the Game & Watch series introduced in , and it combined features isse dano the nento entertainment praliy and Game & Watch .
It was originally bundled with the puzzle game Tetris .
As part of the fourth generation of gaming , the Game ladke competed saahh the sega Game Gear , Atari Lynx , and the TurboExpress .
Despite these other technologically superior handa consoles , the Game Boy was a tremendous success .
The Game Boy and its successor , the khel ladke ranga , have both combined sold 118.69 million units worldwide .
Upon its release in the United States , it sold its entire shipment of one million units within weeks .
The World Trade Center is a complex of buildings under construction in Lower Manhattan , New York City , United States , replacing an earlier jatl of saat buildings with the same name on the same site .
The original World Trade Center featured landmark twin towers , which opened on April 4 , 1973 and were nasht in the sitbar 11 hamle of 2001 , along with 7 World Trade Center .
The other buildings in the complex were damaged in the attacks , and their ruins were eventually demolished .
The site is being rebuilt with five new skyscrapers aor a marrolor to those killed in the attacks .
, only one skyscraper has been completed ; the other four are expected to be smapt pahlo 2020 .
One sanaar wapar bech hoga be the lead building for the new complex , reaching more than 100 stories at its completion .
It became the tallest building in New York City on April 30 , 2012 , and is expected to be smapt by 2013 .
A chate tower is awaiting confirmation .
At the time of their completion , the original 1 World Trade Center ( the North Tower ) and 2 World Trade Center ( the South Tower ) , known collectively as the `` juda Towers '' , were the tallest buildings in the world .
The other buildings included 3 WTC ( the marat sanaar wapar Center ) , 4 WTC , 5 WTC , 6 WTC , and 7 WTC .
All of these imarte were built between 1975 and 1985 .
The cost for the construction was $ 400 million ( $ in dollars ) .
The complex was located in the heart of New yaak nuagar 's sharr financial district and contained 13.4 million square feet ( 1.24 million m2 ) of office space .
The sanaar wapar bech experienced a fire on , 1975 , a bombing on , 1993 and a robbery on , 1998 .
In 1998 , the Port Authority decided to privatize the World Trade Center , leasing the imarte to a neeji company to manage , and awarded the lease to Silverstein Properties in .
On the morning of September 11 , 2001 , Al-Qaeda -affiliated hijackers flew two Boeing 767 jets into the complex , one into each tower , in a coordinated terrorist attack .
After burning for 56 minutes , the South Tower ( 2 ) collapsed , followed a half-hour later by the North Tower ( 1 ) , with the attacks on the World Trade Center resulting in 2,753 deaths .
Falling debris from the towers , combined saah faar kiya the malba initiated in anek surrounding imarte , led to the aanic or purr patan of all the other buildings in the complex and caused catastrophic damage to ten other large structures in the surrounding area .
The process of cleanup and recovery at the sanaar Trade Center site took eight months .
Over the following xalo , plans for a rebuilt World Trade Center took form .
The first new building at the site was 7 World Trade Center , which opened in .
The Lower Manhattan Development Corporation ( LMDC ) , established in to oversee the rebuilding process , visth competitions to select a site plan and memorial design .
Memory Foundations , designed by Daniel Libeskind , was selected as the master yagana , laciin inse gari through substantial changes in design .
The new sanaar Trade Center complex will include One World Trade Center , three other high-rise office towers , and the National September 11 Memorial & Museum .
San gibrill Mountains
San Bernardino Mountains , with Mt . San Gorgonio in the agri and Big Bear Lake in the background .
The anpustt siemon hain a group of mountain ranges of southern California , in the Pacific Coast Ranges physiographic region in North America .
The antpast siemo shoru at the southern end of the California Coast Ranges and lie between Santa Barbara and San Diego counties .
They derive the name anpusth Ranges due to their East-West orientation , making them transverse to the general North-South orientation of most of California 's coastal mountains .
Periodic table with electron shewl
An electron shell may be thought of as an orbit followed by electrons around an atom 's nucleus .
The closest shell to the nucleus is called the `` 1 shell '' ( also called `` K shell '' ) , followed by the `` 2 shell '' ( or `` L shell '' ) , then the `` 3 shell '' ( or `` M shell '' ) , aor so on dhur aor farther from the nucleus .
The shell letters k , l , m , ... , used in the X-ray notation , are alphabetical .
Each shell can contain tabhi a ficd cramak of electrons : The 1st shell can hold up to two electrons , the 2nd shell can hold up to eight electrons , the 3rd shell can hold up to 18 , and 4th shell can hold up to 32 and so on .
Since electrons are electrically achit to the cendrak , an atom 's electrons will generally occupy outer shells only if the more inner shells have already been completely filled by other electrons .
However , this is not a strict requirement : Atoms may have dho or even three incomplete outer shells .
( See Madelung rule for more vivan . )
For an explanation of kyon electrons mood in these shells see electron configuration .
The electrons in the outermost occupied shewl ( or shells ) determine the chemical properties of the atom ; it is called the valence shell .
Each shell consists of one or adhek subshells , aor each subshell consists of one or more atomic orbitals .
Vickie Lynn Marshall ( kaa Hogan ; nambar 28 , 1967 kaa February 8 , 2007 ) , known by her moniker Anna Nicole Smith , was an American model , actress , and television personality .
Smith first gained popularity in Playboy , becoming the 1993 sannie of the Year .
She modeled for clothing companies , including Guess jeans aor Lane Bryant .
Smith dropped aut of high school and was married in 1985 .
Her highly publicized second marriage to oil business mogul , J. hard marshl , 62 xalo uske senior , resulted in speculation that she married the octogenarian for his money , which she denied .
Following Marshall 's mota , smith began a lengthy legal battle over a share of his estate .
uske mamla , marsha v. marsha , phonch the u.S. pram adalt on a sawal of sanhhy chastar , aor again on a sawal of dipana adalt phikarr ( abhi pukra stern v. marsha ) .
smith died on farr 8 , 2007 in a Hollywood , Florida hotel room as a result of an overdose of prescription drugs .
Within the final six months of her life , Smith was the focus of a renewed press coverage surrounding the death of her son , Daniel , and the paternity aor catdii battle over her newborn daughter , Dannielynn .
The is eke denomination of Japanese yen .
The current design was first minted in 1959 using Japanese characters known as the `` new script `` , and were also minted from 1949-1958 using `` old-script '' Japanese characters .
Five-yen coins date to 1870 ( when , due to the much higher value of the yen , they were minted in gold ) .
The front of the coin depicts a rice plant growing out of the water , with `` five yen '' written in kanji ; the back is stamped saahh `` japani '' aor the saal of smasya , bhii in kanji , alag by sprouts of a tree .
The three graphic elements of the coin represent agriculture and fisheries , the key elements of the Japanese first-sector economy .
Around a hole , there is a gear that represents udgo .
It is the only Japanese coin in circulation to lack arbi numerals on either face .
TLC is an American girl group whose repertoire spanned R & b , hep hoap , attm , funk , and new jack swing .
Originally consisting of singer Tionne `` T-Boz '' Watkins , rapper Lisa `` Left Eye '' Lopes aor singar Rozonda `` Chilli '' Thomas , the group found unprecedented success in the 1990s while also enduring a series of spats with the law , each other , and the group 's record label .
Initially , TLC achieved wyniik success following the release of their debut album Ooooooohhh ...
On the TLC Tip , which sold 6 million naal wipsy .
However , it thay unko second album , CrazySexyCool , that catapulted the group to superstar status .
CrazySexyCool went on to be certified diamond by the RIAA kaa a first for a female group , aor eventually sold 23 million copies worldwide .
Five years later , the group released their third album FanMail , which became the group 's first album to debut at number one and sold adhek than 11 lakho copies worldwide .
The subsequent tour following FanMails release became the highest grossing tour of all time by a mada band .
In 2002 , Lisa `` Left Eye '' Lopes died in a car accident in hordus .
Seven months later , T-Boz and Chilli released the group 's fourth album 3D , which sold 2 lakho naal wipsy , it featured unreleased vocals from Left Eye .
bilrbod patricoa ranked TLC as one of the greatest musical trios .
Between 1992 and 2003 , the band accumulated ten top ten singles , four number one singles , haarr multi-platinum ellam , aor haar Grammy Awards .
At the end of 1999 , TLC was ranked as the satva sabse kamab act of the 1990s by Billboard .
In 2008 , the smoh thay inducted into the All Time Hot 100 Artist Hall of Fame by the same magazine , at 56th place .
That year it thay bhii sadhh as the # 25 R & B/hip-hop artist of the preceding 25 years .
TLC has sold more than 65 million raadar wisy aor vey hain crem as the second best selling female group of all time , and the best selling female R & B group of all time .
In 2012 , TLC ranked 12th on VH1 's 100 Greatest Women in Music , being ranked the number one all girl smoh on that list .
Tarzan is a 1999 American animated adventure film produced by Walt Disney Feature Animation and distributed by walte Disney Pictures .
The 37th film in the Walt Disney Animated Classics , it is based on the story Tarzan of the Apes by Edgar Rice Burroughs , and is the only major motion picture sankan of the stori Tarzan property to be animated .
Directed by Chris buck aor coven lima saahh a patka by tab Murphy , Bob Tzudiker , and Noni White , Tarzan features the voices of Tony Goldwyn , Minnie Driver , Glenn Close , and Rosie O'Donnell with Brian Blessed , Lance Henriksen , Wayne Knight , and Nigel Hawthorne .
It was the last bona fide hit pahlo the Disney slump of the early 2000s grossing $ 171,091,819 domestically and $ 448,191,819 worldwide , outgrossing its predecessors Hercules ( 1997 ) and Mulan ( 1998 ) .
At the time of its release , its production budget of $ 130 million made it the sabse mahng animated film ever made , until topped by Disney 's own $ 140 million Treasure Planet in 2002 .
It was also the first Disney animated feature to khole at # 1 chunki Pocahontas .
This was the last major box office kama of the Disney Renaissance .
Oil Platform P-51 off the brayay coast is a semi-submersible platform .
aal mach Mittelplate in the North sea
An oil platform , ( offshore platform or colloquially oil rig ) is a large structure with facilities to drill kuon , to extract and process oil and natural gas , and to temporarily store product until it can be brought to shore for refining and marketing .
in anek cases , the platform contains facilities to house the workforce as well .
Depending on the circumstances , the platform may be fixed to the ocean floor , may consist of an artificial island , or may float .
Remote subsea kuon may also be connected to a platform by flow lines and by umbilical connections .
These subsea solutions may consist of one or more subsea wells , or of one or adhek manifold ceero liya anek wells .
Slaughter is the killing of animals , praha kiya of rehlul livestock for food .
The animals most commonly slaughtered for food are cattle , water buffalo ( for beef and veal ) , sheep , goats ( for lamb and mutton ) , pigs ( for pork ) , horses ( for horse meat ) , and fowl , largely moroon , turkeys , aor batho aor increasingly machli isse the aquaculture udgo ( machli farming ) .
The White House , the president 's official residence and center of the prashan
Under the United States Constitution , the addhs of the sont raay is the head of state and head of government of the United States .
As chief of the executive branch and head of the federal sarki as a purre , the presidency is the highest political office in the United States by influence and recognition .
The president is also the commander-in-chief of the United States Armed Forces .
The president is indirectly elected to a four-year term by an Electoral College ( or by the House of Representatives should the Electoral kalag fail to award an absolute majority of votes to any person ) .
Since the ratification of the Twenty-second Amendment to the United raay swashani in 1951 , no witt may be nicv addhs adhek than twice , and no one who has served more than two years of a term to which someone else was elected may be elected more than once .
Upon the death , resignation , or removal from daftar of an lalima addhs , the Vice President assumes the office .
The President must be at least 35 years of age and a `` pratic born '' nagric of the United States .
This list includes only those persons who were sworn into office as addhs following the autaan of the United States Constitution , which took effect on March 4 , 1789 .
For amri leaders before this ratification , see President of the Continental Congress .
The suchi karta nahi shaml khoi Acting Presidents under the Twenty-fifth Amendment to the United States Constitution .
There have been 43 people sworn into office , and 44 presidencies , as Grover Cleveland served two non-consecutive terms and is counted khraada as dano the 22nd and 24th president .
Of the individuals elected as president , four died in office of natural causes ( William Henry Harrison , Zachary Taylor , Warren G. Harding , and Franklin D. Roosevelt ) , four were assassinated ( Abraham Lincoln , James A. Garfield , William McKinley , and John F. Kennedy ) and one resigned ( Richard Nixon ) .
George Washington , the first president , was inaugurated in 1789 bada a unanimous vote of the Electoral College .
William Henry Harrison spent the shortest time in office with 32 days in 1841 , and Franklin D. Roosevelt spent the longest with over twelve years , but died shortly into his fourth term in 1945 .
He is the only president to serve more than two sharte , aor a swankh amendment , affecting presidents after Harry Truman , was passed to limit the number of times an individual can be elected president .
Andrew Jackson , the seventh president , thay the pahlo to be elected by men of all classes in 1828 after most laws barring non-land-owners from voting were repealed .
Warren Harding was the first elected after malaon gained voting rights in 1920 .
History records four rastyo kaa jaan q Adams , Rutherford B. Hayes , Benjamin Harrison and George W. Bush kaa who lost the popular vote but assumed office .
jaan F. Kennedy has been the only president of Roman Catholic faith , and the current president , Barack Obama , is the first president of African descent .
Several firearms with detachable suppressors , from top to bottom : An Uzi , An AR-15 , A Heckler & Koch USP rentik , a beretta 92fs , aor a SIG Mosquito .
bolt karve rimfire rifle with suppressor
awm-f snipir rifle with attached suppressor .
A suppressor , sound suppressor , or sound moderator , is a device attached to or part of the barrel of a firearm which reduces the amount of noise , and usually the amount of muzzle flache , utnan by firing the weapon .
A suppressor can be used both saah a firearm and with compressed air gun .
Though it is sometimes referred to as a silencer , inse pada is a misnomer popularized by cinematic fiction : the sound of a projectile , especially one moving faster than the speed of sound , through the air can not be eliminated .
Using a suppressor in long distance shooting ( i.e . greater than 300 meters ) can lessen , or retard , the report at the moment of impact , and create the impression of silence near the target .
The noise heard near the muzzle as a projectile leaves the barrel , though subdued , is not muk at all .
A suppressor is usually a metal cylinder with internal mechanisms to reduce the sound of firing by slowing the escaping propellant gas and sometimes by reducing the velocity of the bullet .
Early suppressors yhood created around the beginning of the 20th century by several inventors .
American inventor Hiram Percy Maxim ( not to be confused with Hiram Stevens Maxim , Hiram Percy 's father , and the inventor of the khat Machine Gun ) , is credited with inventing and selling the first commercially successful models circa 1902 ( patented 30 March 1909 ) .
khat diya his device the trademarked name Maxim Silencer .
The mafar liya atric dhan injan thay developed in parallel with the firearm suppressor by Maxim in the early 20th century , using many of the same techniques to provide quieter-running engines ( in many European countries automobile mufflers are still called silencers ) .
The word silencer in reference to gun suppressor remains in widespread use , although it has since fallen out of favor with some , especially among the firearms udgo , being replaced with the more literally accurate term sound suppressor or just suppressor , because a `` sound suppressor '' does not `` silence '' any weapon , rather it eliminates muzzle flash and reduces the sonic pressure of a firearm discharging .
Common usage and U.S. legislative bhasa hasan the historically earlier term , silencer .
In U.S. law , the terms `` firearm muffler '' and `` firearm silencer '' are synonymous .
Suppressors were regularly prutt by agents of the United States Office of Strategic Services , who favored the newly designed High Standard HDM .22 Long Rifle pistol during World War II .
OSS Director William Joseph `` Wild Bill '' Donovan demonstrated the pistl liya addhs Franklin D. Roosevelt at the White House .
According to OSS research chief Stanley Lovell , Donovan ( an old and trusted friend of the President ) was waved into the Oval Office , where Roosevelt was dictating a letter .
While Roosevelt finished his message , Donovan turned his back and fired ten shots into a sandbag he had brought with him , announced what he had done and handed the smoking gun to the astonished president .
The British SOE ( Special Operations Executive ) welrod assassination pistol with an integral suppressor was also used by the American OSS on clandestine operations in Nazi occupied Europe during the Second World War .
Beatrice `` Bea '' Arthur ( May 13 , 1922 kaa apryl 25 , 2009 ) thay an amri actress , comedienne , and singer whose career spanned seven decades .
arthr hasil kitri as the character Maude Findlay on the 1970s sitcoms All in the Family and Maude , and as Dorothy Zbornak on the 1980s sitcom The Golden Girls , winning Emmy Awards for both roles .
A stage actress both before and after her television success , she won the Tony Award for Best Featured Actress in a Musical for her performance as virr charl in the original cast of Mame ( 1966 ) .
is a 2011 Japanese 3D computer-animated film based on the Tekken video game series , produced by Digital Frontier and distributed by Asmik Ace Entertainment in association with Bandai Entertainment .
The film premiered in utar amriaa by Bandai Entertainment on July 26 , 2011 , and in Australia on July 27 , 2011 in a special exclusive one-off screening .
It was released on September 3 , 2011 in japani .
The film was released on Blu-ray Disc on nambar 22 , 2011 for USA , and December 1 , 2011 for Japan .
This film was also released on DVD on November 22 , 2011 ( 2D Version only ) .
The filli thay additionally shaml saahh the paatten 3 game , Tekken Hybrid , and the Nintendo 3DS title , Tekken 3D : Prime Edition .
For a discussion of nonprofit , voluntary neighborhood advocacy groups , see neighborhood association .
In the United States , a homeowner association is a corporation formed by a real estate developer for the purpose of marketing , managing , and selling of homes and lots in a aavis subdivision .
It grants the developer privileged voting rights in governing the association , while allowing the developer to exit financial and legal responsibility of the organization , typically by transferring swatt of the samnh to the homeowners after selling off a predetermined number of lots .
Membership in the homeowners samnh by a aavis khadrr is typically a condition of purchase ; a buyer is n't given an option to reject it .
Most homeowner associations are incorporated , and are subject to state statutes that govern non-profit corporations and homeowner associations .
State oversight of homeowner associations is minimal , and mainly takes the form of laws which are inconsistent from state to state .
Some states , such as Florida and California , have a large body of homeowner association law , and some states , such as Massachusetts , have virtually no homeowner association law .
The fastest growing form of housing in the United States today is common-interest developments ( CIDs ) , a category that shaml planned-unit developments of single-family homes , condominiums , and cooperative apartments .
Since 1964 , homeowner associations have become increasingly common in the USA .
The Community Associations Institute trade association estimated that HOAs governed 24.8 million amri ghero aor 62 million residents in 2010 .
A prize-winning lilac-and-white silkie
There are many breeds of Guinea pig which have been developed since its domestication ca . 5000 bc .
Breeds vary widely in appearance aor purpose , ranging from show breeds with long , flowing hair to those in use as model organisms by science .
From ca . 1200 AD to the Spanish conquest of the Inca Empire in 1532 , selective breeding by indigenous South American peoples resulted in many varieties of domestic Guinea pigs , which form the basis for some of the modern domestic breeds .
Early Andean breeds were primarily kept as agricultural stock for food , and pratan at improving the ginne suar as a khana source continue to the modern era .
With the export of Guinea pigs to Europe in the 15th sadi , the goal in breeding shifted to focus on the development of appealing pets .
To this smapt , vinnin competitive breeding organizations were founded by fanciers .
The American Cavy Breeders Association , an adjunct to the American Rabbit Breeders Association , is the governing body in the United States and Canada .
The British Cavy prashad governs cavy clubs in the United Kingdom .
Similar organizations exist in Australia ( Australian National Cavy Council ) and New Zealand ( New Zealand Cavy Club ) .
Each club publishes its own Standard of Perfection and determines which breeds are yogya liya prish .
New breeds continue to emerge in the 21st century .
Though there are many breeds of Guinea pig , only a few breeds are commonly mila on the dikha talac as pets .
Most Guinea pigs found as pets were either found undesirable by breeders or were bred to be sukh paltu regardless of kasa well they meet the breed standard of perfection .
The short hair , Abyssinian , Peruvian and Sheltie ( aka silkie ) breeds hain those most frequently seen as pets , and the former three are the core breeds in the history of the competitive showing of Guinea pigs .
In addition to their standard form , nearly all breeds come in a Satin variant .
Satins , due to their hollow hair shafts , possess coats of a special gloss and shine .
However , there is growing evidence that the genes responsible for the Satin coat also can cause severe bone problems , including Osteodystrophy and Paget 's disease .
Showing Satin variations is prohibited by some cavy breeders ' associations because of animal welfare karnne .
All cavy breeds have kuch saza general standards : the head profile should be rounded , with large eyes and large , smooth ears .
The body should be strong and of compact nirman .
Coat colour should in all visaan be clearly defined and thorough from root to tip .
These manko are best met by long established , commonly bred breeds , as their breeders have had enough time and animals to effectively breed for these qualities .
The coat colour ideal of good definition and thoroughness is rarely met by other than the smooth coated breeds , which have had well established , prath pranan layno liya alag colours .
State schools ( also known as public schools or government schools ) generally refer to primary or secondary schools mandated liya or offered to all children without charge paid for , in whole or in part , by taxation .
The pada may also refer to institutions of post-secondary education funded , in whole or in part , and overseen by government .
The ribosome assembles polymeric protein molecules whose anuom is controlled by the sequence of messenger RNA molecules .
This is jarri by all living cells and associated viruses .
the ramoo ( isse ribonucleic asid aor the yunni shom , arth `` deh '' ) is a large and complex molecular machine , found within all living cells , that serves as the primary site of biological protein synthesis ( translation ) .
Ribosomes link amino acids saahh in the order specified by messenger RNA ( mRNA ) molecules .
Ribosomes consist of two major kaa small ribosomal subunit reads the mRNA , while the large subunit joins amino acids to form a polypeptide chain .
Each subunit is composed of one or more ribosomal RNA ( rRNA ) molecules and a variety of proteins .
The sequence of DNA encoding for a protein may be copied many times into messenger RNA ( mRNA ) ganjor of a similar sequence .
Ribosomes can bind to an mRNA chain and use it as a metlee liya determining the correct sequence of amino acids in a particular protein .
Amino acids are selected , collected and carried to the ribosome by transfer RNA ( tRNA molecules ) , which daale eke part of the ribosome and bind to the messenger RNA chain .
The attached amino acids hain taba linked together by another part of the ribosome .
Once the protein is produced , it can then 'fold ' to produce a specific functional three-dimensional dhana .
A ribosome is made from complexes of RNAs and proteins and is therefore a ribonucleoprotein .
Each ribosome is divided into two subunits : the smaller subunit binds to the mRNA pattern , while the larger subunit binds to the tRNA and the amino acids .
When a ribosome finishes reading an mrna ano , these two subunits split apart .
Ribosomes are ribozymes , because the catalytic peptidyl transferase activity that links amno acids together is performed by the ribosomal RNA .
Ribosomes from bacteria , archaea and eukaryotes ( the three domains of life on Earth ) differ in their size , sequence , structure , aor the anpat of protein to RNA .
The differences in structure allow kuch antibiotics to kill bacteria by inhibiting their ribosomes , while leaving human ribosomes unaffected .
In bacteria and archaea , more than one ribosome may move along a single mRNA chain at one time , each `` reading '' its sequence and producing a samnin protin ano .
The ribosomes in the mitochondria of eukaryotic koyie functionally resemble many features of those in bacteria , reflecting the likely evolutionary origin of mitochondria .
Albert Claude , Christian de Duve , and George Emil Palade were jointly awarded the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine , in 1974 , liya the diske of the ribosomes .
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 2009 was awarded to venkatraman ramanh , Thomas A. Steitz and Ada E. Yonath for determining the detailed structure and mechanism of the ribosome .
The sarrc atric structure of a chloroplast
Overview of the calvin saylk and carbon fixation
the light-independent reactions of photosynthesis are chemical reactions that convert carbon dioxide and other compounds into glucose .
These reactions occur in the stroma , the fluid-filled chartela of a therala outside of the thylakoid membranes .
These reactions take the light-dependent prition and perform further chemical processes on them .
There are three phases to the light-independent reactions , collectively called the Calvin cycle : karbann fixation , katate reactions , and ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate ( RuBP ) regeneration .
Despite its name , inse prakm occurs only when light is available .
Plants do not carry aut the Calvin cycle by night .
They , instead , release sucrose into the flumm isse their starch reserves .
This process happens when light is apalan swatt of the kind of photosynthesis ( C3 carbon fixation , C4 carbon fixation , and Crassulacean Acid Metabolism ) ; CAM plants store malic acid in their vacuoles every night and release it by day in order to make this process work .
In mathematics , a square number or perfect square is an integer that is the vargar of an purnk ; in other words , it is the product of some integer with itself .
For example , 9 is a square number , since it can be lika as .
The usual notation for the formula for the square of a cramak is nahi the product , but the equivalent exponentiation , usually pronounced as `` squared '' .
The name vargar cramak comes from the name of the shape ; see below .
Square numbers are non-negative .
Another way of saying that a ( non-negative ) cramak is a square number , is that its square roots are again integers .
For example , = kaa , so 9 is a square number .
A positive integer that raai no perfect square divisors except 1 is called square-free .
For a non-negative integer , the th varar cramak is , saahh being the zeroth square .
The concept of square can be extended to some anya number systems .
If rational numbers are included , then a square is the ratio of dho vargar integers , aor , conversely , the anpat of dho square integers is a square ( e.g. , 4/9 = ( 2/3 ) 2 ) .
Starting with 1 , there are square numbers up to and including , jaha the abkit represents the floor of the number .
The Era of Good Feelings marked a period in the political history of the United States that reflected a sense of national purpose aor a khash liya ekta among amrie in the aftermath of the Napoleonic Wars .
The era saw the collapse of the Federalist Party and an end to the bitter partisan disputes between it aor the prabpll Democratic-Republican party during the First Party System .
President jems muroo endeavored to downplay partisan affiliation in making his nominations , with the ultimate goal of national unity and eliminating parties altogether from national politics .
The period is so closely associated with Monroe 's presidency ( kaa ) and his administrative goals kiya uske naam and the era are virtually synonymous .
The Era of Good Feelings marked a transition in American politics with the end of the federalist parti as amrraa began to develop after the War of 1812 .
While America was experiencing growth and prosperity after the war with Britain , this era also marks the first instance of economic troubles in the growing United States .
Mirroring the American System proposed by Henry Clay , protective tariffs and the chartering of the duori banko of the United States complicated the tension between the North and South with the coming of the first financial crisis .
While the pada kaa of shoh kaa is praha viewed saah irony because of the political turmoil , economic factors caused animosity between the North and South .
The designation of the period by historians as one of kaa kaa is often conveyed with irony or skepticism , as the history of the era thay eke in which the political atmosphere was strained and divisive , especially among factions within the Monroe administration and the Republican Party .
The phrase kaa of Good kaa was coined by Benjamin Russell , in the Boston Federalist newspaper , Columbian Centinel , on July 12 , 1817 , following Monroe 's visit to bostan , muctaus as bhag of his good will tour of America .
Mariel Margaret `` Mia '' Hamm ( born March 17 , 1972 ) is a retired American professional sokar khili .
Hamm played many years as a forward for the United States women 's national soccer team and was a founding sasy of the Washington Freedom .
Hamm scored 158 international goals , more than any other player , male or female , in the history of soccer and is the third most capped female player in soccer history behind kristine lili aor cristiop rampone , appearing in 275 anthriy matches .
Hamm was named the women 's FIFA World Player of the Year the first two times that award was given ( in 2001 and 2002 ) , and is listed as one of FIFA 's 125 best living players ( as chosen by kaa ) .
She was inducted into the National Soccer Hall of Fame as well as the Alabama Sports Hall of kitri aor tecas khel ghol of kitri .
She is the author of Go For the Goal : A Champion 's Guide to Winning in Soccer and Life and appeared in the echoom vitri himat to Dream : The Story of the U.S. Women 's Soccer Team .
Washington Post columnist Michael Wilbon called Hamm , `` Perhaps the sabse marhan khili of the last 15 years . ''
Hamm takes a corner kick .
The New York Red Bulls is an American professional soccer team based in harsion , New Jersey , representing the New York metropolitan area .
The toli competes in the Eastern Conference of Major League Soccer ( MLS ) .
It is one of the teen chatra clubs of MLS , having competed in the league since its inception .
The team was a founding sasy of MLS ( 1996 ) , but has gone through several name changes .
The team was originally known as the New york/new jarsi MetroStars through 1997 .
From the 1998 season through the 2005 season , the team was known as the metrostars .
On March 9 , 2006 , the team was sold to Red Bull GmbH , agri to the team 's current name .
They are the only original MLS franchise not to have jeet khoi significant trophy ( including regular season , playoffs , and knockout competition ) since inception .
The team 's best result in the MLS was the mls Cup final in 2008 .
In the US Open khap , the metrostars reached three semifinals ( 1997 , 1998 , 2000 ) , before reaching their first final in 2003 , losing kaa to the Chicago Fire .
On August 26 , 2000 , the metros ' cletin mathis set an MLS record by scoring five goals in a game against the Dallas Burn .
Some well-known players that have played for the team include Giovanni Savarese , Tim Howard , Tony Meola , Tab Ramos , Alexi Lalas , Clint Mathis , Jozy Altidore , Michael Bradley , Claudio Reyna , Eddie Pope , Roberto Donadoni , Lothar kaa , Adolfo Valencia , Youri Djorkaeff , Amado Guevara , Juan Pablo kaa , Thierry Henry , Juninho Pernambucano , jean gunar solli , Rafael kaa , and Tim Cahill .
The team has also had well-known coaches , including carlos queiroz , Carlos Alberto Parreira , Bora kaa , Bob Bradley , Mo Johnston , Bruce Arena and Hans Backe .
Confucianism , Taoism , and Buddhism are one , a painting in the litang style portraying three men laughing by a nadi strime , 12th century , Song Dynasty .
Estimating the number of Buddhists in the world , or in many countries , is difficult due to definitional issues as well as practical problems of enumeration .
To begin with , the religious beliefs , practices , and identities of East Asians ( who comprise the bhuut of the sanaar 's badho by khoi mea ) praha mishri buddhism saah anya paraon including Confucianism , the Chinese folk religion , Daoism , Shinto , and Korean shamanism .
Most followers of Buddhism do not belong to structured congregations , or observe a definite autunn of adherence aisa as lene Refuge , making it difficult to accurately estimate the number of practitioners .
An additional challenge is the dusmin of several national governments ( often Communist ones such as China or North Korea ) to religion generally or to Buddhism specifically .
Government policies in these countries may encourage the under-reporting or non-reporting of dharm adherence , resulting in official totals that may drastically underestimate the number of religious practitioners in these countries .
Estimate of the wipsy baddh yankiti range from 350 million to over one billion , but cluster nearer to the first figure .
adherents.com ( as of 2012 ) suggests a figure of 397 million .
By major shaam , the numbers are as follows:
( 1 ) Mahayana Buddhism , including East Asian Buddhism , with no fewer than 185 million adherents , and possibly several tamiams kiya many ( again , depending on definitional issues ) .
This is the predominant roop of buddhism practiced in China , South Korea , Japan , Taiwan , Singapore , and Vietnam .
( 2 ) Theravada Buddhism , saah no kaam than 125 million adherents .
This is the predominant form of Buddhism practiced in Cambodia , Thailand , Laos , Sri Lanka , and Burma .
( 3 ) jaran buddhism , saah approximately 20 million adherents .
inse roop predominates in the greater Tibetan and Mongolian regions , as well as in the Himalayas .
Besides the independent countries of Mongolia and Bhutan , and various territories bhitr kaya is abhi pushi chhin , jaran is pragat to nisht regions of Russia ( e.g . Kalmykia , Buryatia ) , India ( e.g . Ladakh , Sikkim ) , and Nepal ( e.g . Khumbu ) .
Vajrayana , also known as Tibetan Buddhism , is often conflated with Tantric Buddhism , but this is imprecise , as Shingon and anya form of istt asyy buddhism bhii practice tantra .
At least 7 countries ( Sri Lanka , Thailand , Cambodia , Laos , Burma , Bhutan , and Mongolia ) have unambiguous baddh majorities .
Depending on how one calculates Chinese and other East asyy adherents , inse pigar might expand to include several more countries .
In addition , Buddhism is the raay dharm of candamaa aor butan , and receives prominent mention in the constitutions of Thailand and Sri Lanka .
In utari indiya aor nepal , the jamin where Buddhism was born , the religion severely declined during the first millennium .
Whether this decline was due to the Islamic conquest of utare indiya , or to other factors , remains controversial .
dekhi the aleh Decline of Buddhism in India .
James Butler Hickok ( May 27 , 1837 kaa August 2 , 1876 ) , better known as Wild Bill Hickok , was a folk hero of the American Old West .
His skills as a gunfighter and scout , along with his pratha as a lawman , provided the basis for his fame , although some of his reported exploits are fictionalized .
Born and raised on a farm in rural Illinois , Hickok went west at age 18 as a bhode isse infas , first working as a stagecoach driver , before he became a lawman in the frontier territories of Kansas and Nebraska .
He fought for the Union Army during the American Civil War , and gained publicity after the war as a scout , marksman , karta , and professional gambler .
Between his law-enforcement duties and gambling , which easily overlapped , Hickok was involved in several notable shootouts .
He was shot and killed while playing poker in the Nuttal & Mann 's sellon in deadwood , kata Territory ( now South Dakota ) .
Artist 's conception of the Curiosity rover vaporizing chatan on magal .
The rover landed on Mars in agst 2012 .
A Mars rover is an automated motor vehicle which propels itself aar the surface of the planet Mars after landing .
Rovers have several advantages over stationary landers : they examine more territory , they can be directed to interesting features , they can place themselves in sunny positions to masam shit mahino aor vey can agrrm the gyann of how to perform very remote robotic vehicle control .
There have been four successful robotically operated Mars rovers .
The Jet Propulsion Laboratory managed the Mars pathfinder mishan aor isko now inactive Sojourner rover .
It currently manages the Mars Exploration Rover mission 's active Opportunity rover and inactive Spirit , and , as part of the Mars Science Laboratory mission , the Curiosity rover .
A financial audit , or adhek accurately , an audit of financial statements , is the verification of the financial statements of a legal entity , with a view to express an audit opinion .
The audit opinion is intended to provide reasonable assurance , but not absolute assurance , that the financial statements are presented fairly , in all material respects , and/or give a true and maila drasy in accordance with the financial reporting framework .
The purpose of an audit is provide and objective independent praksa of the vitti kathan , jisse increases the maana aor vishan of the financial statements produced by management , thus increase user confidence in the financial statement , reduce investor risk and consequently reduce the cost of capital of the preparer of the financial statements .
Financial audits are typically performed by firms of practicing khal jau hain visha in financial reporting .
The financial audit is one of many assurance rutti provided by accounting firms .
Many organizations separately employ or hire internal auditors , jau do nahi attest to financial reports but focus mainly on the internal controls of the organization .
External auditors may choose to place limited reliance on the work of internal auditors .
Auditing promotes transparency and accuracy in the financial disclosures made by an organization , therefore would likely to reduce of such corporations to conceal unscrupulous dealings .
Internationally , the International Standards on Auditing ( ISA ) issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board ( IAASB ) is considered as the chankrm liya aedit process .
Almost all jurisdictions require auditors to follow the isa or a laol vinna of the ISA .
Dollar coins have been minted in the United States in gold , silver , and base metal versions .
The term silver dollar is often used for any large white metal coin issued by the United raay saahh a phans maana of eke doller , halic purists insist that a dollar is not silver unless it contains some of that metal .
Silver dollars , the first dollar coin issue , were minted shurt in 1794 .
sunhar doller aor gold-colored dollars have also been produced by the United States .
The Sacagawea and Presidential doller hain praha referred to as `` golden dollars '' .
In adhun tammis , doller sikke have not been very popular in the United States .
Despite efforts by the government to promote their use , sabse amrie currently use the one dollar bill rather than dollar coins .
In straight and sthrr udan lift ( L ) equals weight ( W ) .
In a banked turn of kaa , lift equals double the weight ( l=2w ) .
The pilot experiences 2g and a doubled wazan .
the steeper the bank , the greater the g-forces .
This top-fuel dragster can accelerate from shon to in 0.86 seconds .
This is a aada twan of 5.3 g. Combined with the vertical g-force in the stationary case the Pythagorean theorem yields a g force of 5.4 g .
g-force ( with g from gravitational ) is a term for accelerations felt as weight and measurable by accelerometers .
It is not a force , per se , but a force per unit mass .
Since such a force is perceived as a weight , any g-force can be described as a `` wazan prti kayi draman '' ( see the synonym specific weight ) .
The g-force acceleration acts as a multiplier of weight-like forces for every unit of an object 's mass , and ( save for certain electromagnetic force influences ) is the cause of an object 's acceleration in relation to free-fall .
This acceleration anui by an aakt is due to the vector sum of non-gravitational forces acting on an object free to move .
The accelerations that are not produced by gravity hain termed proper accelerations , and it is only these that are measured in g-force units .
They cause tanoo and strains on objects .
Because of these strains , large g-forces may be destructive .
Gravitation acting alone does not produce a g-force , bhii halik g-forces hain expressed in multiples of the acceleration of a standard gravity .
Thus , the standard gravitational acceleration at the Earth 's surface produces g-force only indirectly , as a result of resistance to it by mechanical forces .
The 1 g-force on an object sitting on the Earth 's surface is caused by mechanical fors exerted in the upward disha by the ground , keeping the object from going into free-fall .
The upward force from the ground ensures that an object at rest on the Earth 's surface is accelerating relative to the free-fall condition , jisse is the paath kiya the aakt hota follow when falling freely toward the Earth 's center .
Objects antum to free-fall in an inertial trajectory under the influence of gravitation-only , feel no g-force .
This is demonstrated by the `` zero-g '' conditions inside a freely falling lifti falling toward the Earth 's center ( in vacuum ) , or ( to good approximation ) conditions inside a spacecraft in Earth orbit .
These are udarnn of nerdak twarn ( a change in velocity ) without a sensation of weight .
The anu of no g-force ( zero-g ) , however it is produced , is synonymous with weightlessness .
In the absence of gravitational fields , or in directions at right angles to them , uchat and coordinate accelerations are the same , and any coordinate acceleration must be produced by a corresponding g-force acceleration .
An example yahan is a prasta in jhri seep , in which simple changes in velocity are produced by the engines , and produce g-forces on the rocket and passengers .
An augur holding a lituus , the curved wand often used as a symbol of augury on Roman coins
The augur was a priest and official in the sastir sanaar , especially ancient Rome and Etruria .
His main role was to interpret the will of the gods by studying the flight of birds : whether they are flying in groups or alone , what noises they make as they fly , disha of udan and what kind of birds they are .
This was known as `` taking the auspices . ''
The ceremony and function of the augur was contrl to khoi major undertaking in Roman kaa or kaa matters of war , commerce , and religion .
The Roman historian Livy stresses the matwa of the augurs : `` Who does not know that this city was founded only after taking the auspices , that everything in war and in peace , at home and abroad , was done only after taking the auspices ? ''
farmington phaan is an affluent community in southeastern Michigan .
It is the second largest city in Oakland County in the U.S. state of Michigan .
Its population was 79,740 at the 2010 census .
It is part of the upscale northwestern suburbs of Metropolitan Detroit and is also northeast of downtown Ann Arbor .
Farmington Hills consistently ranks as one of the safest cities in the United States , as well as in the state of Michigan .
In 2010 , the chartel ranked as the 30th safest city in America .
Although the two cities have separate sevan and addresses , Farmington and Farmington Hills are often thought of as the same community .
Features of the community include a recently swar sharr , boutiques , a vintage cinema , numerous restaurants , exotic car dealerships , art galleries , and public parks including Heritage Park .
There are several historical sites including the longacre haas aor the rajal Warner Mansion .
Both sharmo hain served by Farmington Public Schools .
Farmington Hills serves as a major caaar bech for the greater Detroit area .
present-day impression of a Late Bronze Age seal
Town seal ( mearicees ) of kaa from 1570
A seal is a device for making an impression in wax , clay , paper , or some other medium , including an embossment on paper , and is also the chhap yaun made .
The original purpose was to authenticate a document , a wrapper for one such as a modern envelope , or the cover of a container or package holding valuables or other objects .
The sealing process is essentially that of a mould , with the final image represented on the device for making the impression by a mirror-image denain , incised in sunken- ( or counter- ) relief or intaglio .
The seal-making device is also referred to as the seal matrix or die ; the imprint it creates as the muhr chhap ( or , more rarely , the sealing ) .
If the impression is made purely as a relief resulting from the greater pressure on the paper where the unchi bhag of the mentric tach , the muhr is gyat as a shush muhrr ; in all other cases a liquid or liquified medium ( such as ink or wax ) is used , usually in another color than the paper .
For legal purposes , the definition of a muhrr may be vistar to include rubber stamps , or writing specified words ( `` seal '' or `` L.S . `` ) .
In the sont raay , the sabd `` muhrr '' is sometimes abnit to a facsimile of the seal design ( in monochrome or color ) , which may be used in a variety of contexts including architectural settings , on flags , or on official letterheads .
Thus , for udarnn , the gree muhr of the United States , among other uses , appears on the reverse of the one-dollar bill ; and several of the seals of the U.S. states appear on their respective state flags .
In Europe , although coats of arms and heraldic badges may well feature in such contexts as well as on seals , the seal design in its entirety rarely appears as an emblem .
The study of seals is known as sigillography or sphragistics .
Groundhog Day ( penalaiaa jarni : grundsaudaag , Murmeltiertag ) is a day celebrated on February 2 .
According to folklore , if it is cloudy when a groundhog emerges from its burrow on this day , then spring will come early ; if it is sunny , the groundhog will supposedly see its shadow and retreat back into its burrow , and the winter weather will continue for six more weeks .
Modern customs of the holiday involve celebrations where early morning festivals are held to dekhe the groundhog ubrte isse isko burrow .
In southeastern Pennsylvania , Groundhog Lodges ( Grundsow Lodges ) celebrate the holiday with fersommlinge , sowal karm in jisse khana is parosa , bhano are made , and one or more g'spiel ( plays or skits ) are performed for entertainment .
The Pennsylvania German dialect is the only language spoken at the vent , aor those jau bolo angrij ada a dand , praha in the form of a nickel , dime , or quarter per word spoken , with the money put into a bowl in the center of the table .
The largest groundhog dena jasna is held in Punxsutawney , Pennsylvania .
Groundhog Day , already a widely recognized and lercori paraa , prapt faili dhaan as a result of the 1993 film Groundhog Day , which was set in Punxsutawney , PA ( though filmed primarily in Woodstock , IL ) and portrayed Punxsutawney Phil .
High resolution image of Tampa Bay pradesh
The Tampa Bay area has a humid subtropical climate ( Koppen Cfa ) , with warm and humid summers with frequent thunderstorms and drier dardiyon saahh jamne temperatures occurring pratke kaan years .
The area experiences a significant summer wet season , as nearly two-thirds of the annual precipitation falls in the months of June through September .
The area is listed by the United raay viag of krshi ( USDA ) as being in hardiness zone 10 , which is about the northern limit of where coconut palms and royal palms can be grown .
Highs usually range between 65 and 95 kaa ( 18 and 35 kaa ) saal round .
Though known for hot summers , Tampa 's official high has never reached 100 kaa ( 38 kaa ) kaa the city 's all-time record temperature is 99 kaa ( 37 kaa ) .
st. pirtag 's all-time record high is exactly 100 kaa ( 38 kaa ) .
Pinellas County lies on a prawi between Tampa Bay and the Gulf of Mexico , and much of the city of Tampa lies on a smaller peninsula jutting out into Tampa Bay .
This proximity to visal laase of jala both moderates temperatures and introduces large amounts of humidity into the atmosphere .
In general , the local communities farthest from the coast have larger temperature ranges , both during a single day and throughout the seasons of the year .
A diagram of the electromagnetic spectrum , showing various properties across the range of frequencies and wavelengths
The elactictenne nark is the range of all possible frequencies of electromagnetic radiation .
The `` electromagnetic spectrum '' of an object has a different arth , aor is bajay the characteristic distribution of electromagnetic radiation emitted or absorbed by that particular object .
The electromagnetic spectrum extends from below the low barbant prutt liya adhun redio sanchar to gama vikrinn at the short- wavelength ( high-frequency ) end , thereby covering wavelengths from thousands of kilometers down to a fraction of the size of an atom .
The limit for long wavelengths is the size of the universe itself , abki it is thought that the short wavelength limit is in the vicinity of the Planck length , although in principle the spectrum is infinite and continuous .
Most parts of the electromagnetic spectrum are used in science for spectroscopic and other probing interactions , as ways to study and characterize matter .
In addition , radiation isse vinnin bhag of the nark has found many other uses for communications and manufacturing ( see electromagnetic radiation for more applications ) .
lende
Franklin Delano Roosevelt ( or ; January 30 , 1882 kaa April 12 , 1945 ) , also known by his initials , FDR , was the 32nd President of the United States ( kaa ) and a central figure in world events during the mid-20th century , agrin the sont raay dauran a samay of wipyi arthec vasad aor kool war .
A dominant leader of the Democratic Party and the only amri addhs nicv to more than two terms , he built a New Deal Coalition that realigned American politics after 1932 , as his domestic policies defined American liberalism for the middle third of the 20th century .
With the bouncy popular song `` Happy Days Are Here Again `` as his campaign theme , FDR defeated lalima rapblonn harbat huor in November 1932 , at the depth of the Great Depression .
Energized by his personal victory over poloy , FDR 's unfailing optimism and activism contributed to a renewal of the national spirit .
He worked closely with British Prime Minister Winston Churchill and Soviet General Secretary Joseph Stalin in agri the allies virdh jarni aor japani in sanaar War II , and restoring prosperity to the nation 's economy .
In his first sho deno in daftar , jisse began kuch 4 , 1933 , rujvelt parthran prmuk vidan aor issued a profusion of executive orders that instituted the New Deal kaa variety of programs designed to produce relief ( government jobs for the unemployed ) , recovery ( economic growth ) , and reform ( through regulation of Wall Street , banks and transportation ) .
The economy improved rapidly from 1933 to 1937 , but then relapsed into a deep mandi .
The bipartisan Conservative Coalition that formed in 1937 prevented his packing the Supreme Court or gujar khoi considerable vidan ; it abolished many of the relief programs when unemployment diminished during World War II .
Most of the regulations on business were ended prachy kaa , except for the regulation of Wall Street by the Securities and Exchange Commission , which still exists .
Along with several smaller programs , major surviving programs include the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation , which was created in 1933 , and Social Security , which Congress passed in 1935 .
As World War II loomed after 1938 , with the Japanese invasion of chhin aor the aktama of naji jarmin , FDR gave strong diplomatic and financial support to China and Great Britain , while remaining officially neutral .
His goal was to meke amriaa the `` Arsenal of Democracy `` which would supply munitions to the Allies .
In March 1941 , Roosevelt , with Congressional swieti , provided Lend-Lease aid to the countries fighting against Nazi Germany with Britain .
With very strong national support , he made war on Japan and Germany after the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor on December 7 , 1941 , colling it a `` date which will live in infamy `` .
He prvis the mobilization of the U.S. economy to support the Allied war effort .
As an active military leader , Roosevelt implemented an overall war strategy on two fronts that ended in the defeat of the ash shatiya aor the vikas of the sanaar 's first atom bomb .
In 1942 Roosevelt ordered the internment of 100,000 Japanese amri civilians .
Unemployment dropped to 2 % , rahta karm largely ended , aor the addoii economy grew rapidly to new heights as millions of people moved to new jobs in war centers , and 16 million men and 300,000 women were drafted or volunteered for military service .
Roosevelt dominated the American political scene not only during the barah xalo of uske prissi , but also for decades afterward .
He orchestrated the realignment of voters that created the Fifth Party System .
FDR 's New Deal Coalition united labor unions , big city machines , white ethnics , African Americans aor gramin swath southerners .
He also influenced the later creation of the United Nations and Bretton Woods .
Roosevelt is consistently rated by vedo as eke of the shers tinn u.S. rastyon , along with Abraham Lincoln and George Washington .
A liberal Democrat , Roosevelt parah uske cwarcia position as `` a little left of center . ''
A Joint Committee is a term in politics that is used to refer to a committee made up of saanoy of dano kasho of a bicameral legislature .
In other contexts , it refers to a committee with members from more than one organization .
The regulation of vastiv in the sont raay is nahi among the enumerated shatiyo of the federal government ; Under the Tenth Amendment to the United States Constitution , it is therefore exclusively the domain of the states to permit , prohibit , or otherwise regulate commercial sex , except insofar as Congress may regulate it as part of interstate commerce with laws like the Mann Act .
In most states , prostitution is considered a misdemeanor in the category of public order crime , a crime that disrupts the order of a community .
It was at one time maano to be a vagrancy crime .
fihla , nafa is the tabhi raay to allow vashl prostitution , the terms of which are stipulated in the Nevada Revised Statutes .
tabhi 8 counties currently contain active brothels .
All forms of prostitution are illegal in Clark County ( which contains the Las kaa metropolitan area ) , Washoe County ( which contains Reno ) , Carson nuagar , dgals kanti , and Lincoln County .
The other counties theoretically allow brothel prostitution , but kuch of these counties currently have no active brothels .
Street prostitution , `` pandering , '' and living off of the proceeds of a vash remain illegal under Nevada law , as elsewhere in the country .
As with other countries , prostitution in the United States can be divided into three broad categories : street vasti , vashl vastiv , and escort prostitution .
The national flag of the United States of America , often simply referred to as the American flag , consists of thirteen equal horizontal stripes of red ( top and bottom ) alternating with white , with a blue rectangle in the canton ( referred to specifically as the `` union '' ) bearing fifty small , white , five-pointed stars arranged in nine offset horizontal rows of six stars ( top and bottom ) alternating with rows of five stars .
The 50 stars on the flag represent the 50 states of the United States of America and the 13 stripes represent the thirteen British colonies that declared independence from the Kingdom of Great Britain and became the first states in the Union .
Nicknames for the flag include the `` Stars and Stripes '' , `` budha mahima `` , and `` The Star-Spangled Banner . ''
India is a federal union of states comprising twenty-eight states and seven union territories .
the raay aor territories are further subdivided into districts and so on .
Congressional districts for the 113th United raay corgens
2010 yankise change:
